The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 12, December 6, 1983.
New study on 
field house
Three strikes and youre out; why is this car still here?
Students demand career" classes
By NEAL JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
A feasibility study concerning a new fieldhouse was recently done for this campus. 
The first phase was undertaken by the archi
tectural firm of Williams, Trebilcock, and 
Whitehead (WTW) based in Pittsburgh. 
They were joined by The Architects Colla
borative, programming and design consul
tants from Cambridge.
The idea for a new athletic facility isnt 
really new at all. Several years ago Thistle 
Hall, our current gymnasium, was deemed 
inadequate to meet the demands needed. 
President Cyert appointed a committee to 
look at and evaluate other fieldhouses at 
universities across the country . Their report 
was turned in last spring and discussed by 
the Building and Grounds Committee.
An architectural firm was then needed. 
Fred Rogers, Vice President for Business 
Affairs, said several were contacted and 
then interviewed by our committee. We took 
proposals from them all; each showed 
potential. But out of the entire group, we felt 
that WTW was the best. Theyre a good, 
professional firm. WTWs alternative loca
tions for the fieldhouse would place it under 
the field at Tech Stadium, raising the cur
rent one up to meet the IM field; under the 
Cut and the area around the tennis courts; or 
on the hill between Doherty and Warner 
Hall.
Whats to be included? Its not a question 
of whether or not well have a pool or var
ious other facilities, Rogers states, but of 
their size. And that, of course, depends on 
how much money we can raise. The 
administration would like to keep costs 
down to $20 million. The money for this 
project will hopefully come from various 
individuals, alumni, or foundations. I 
could raise $100 by tomorrow and $100 the 
next, but any more than $20 million might 
be tough, remarks Rogers.
As for the gym, most of it will be taken 
over by CFA when the fieldhouse is built. 
This will help to alleviate the crush Fine 
Arts students have been experiencing in 
Margaret Morrison. Unfortunately, con
struction probably wont begin for another 
2-3 years. So until the new addition to this 
campus is approved and built, well just 
have to make do with what we have.
In this issue:
Editorial
How close are we? .............................page 2
News
Time covers...................................................page 7
Engineering jobs down............................page 7
Features
Teacher of the week.................................page 9
Toss your anchors aweigh ...... page 10
Entertainment
New albums evaluated......................page 11
4 Lesson from Aloes reviewed ... page 11
Sports
lartans Big Heart broken..... page 13 
Cyclist wants to ach teve dream___page 17
By JANET SIMONS
CPS Staffurriter
Student demand for certain careeroriented courses has outstripped colleges 
ability to provide them, and soon only top 
students may be able to get into them, educa
tors around the country report.
We have students back for a fifth year 
because they havent been able to get all their 
required courses, says Harold Kidder, 
faculty chairman at West Virginia 
University.
To cope with student demand for busi
ness courses, the University of Illinois busi
ness school now only lets in freshmen with 
high grade point averages.
Students admitted this year are no longer 
guaranteed that they will be able to graduate 
in certain majors, adds David Sprecher, 
provost of the University of CalifomiaBerkeley. Cal no longer allows students to 
declare majors in business economics, com
munications, computer science, economics 
and certain engineering specialties.
About a third of the student body at the 
University of Nebraska-Omaha was affected 
by class closings this fall, according to a poll 
taken by the student government there.
Nevertheless, says Jack Peltason of the 
American Council on Education in 
Washington, D.C., it would be misleading 
to say thousands of students arent getting 
an education because courses arent there.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
Jeff Suzuki has been offered the opportun
ity to withdraw from CMU, confirmed 
Dean of Student Affairs Braden W'alter, 
Tuesday, November 22.
Suzuki will be allowed to complete the 
semester, including his computer courses. 
All of his computer accounts have been res
tored. He an reapply for fall semester of 
1984. However, Suzuki said, CMU isnt 
worth coming back to if they have people 
like Phil Miller.
Wfe have many problems, but thats not a 
major one.
The problem does seem less severe at pri
vate colleges, but a wide variety erf public 
campuses are having trouble hiring enough 
professors to teach the meal ticket courses 
and finding ways of moving money from 
less popular courses. We just dont have as 
much flexibilty as we would like, says 
Warren Haffner, registrar at Penn State. Its 
difficult when youre working with human 
resources.
There simply has been a boom in busi
ness, computer science and some engineer
ing areas, says Kathy Jones, Iowa States 
assistant registrar. The demand is growing 
faster than the ability to fill it. To fill it, 
universities must compete directly with pri
vate industries for computer scientists ami 
engineers.
Fewer people are going into teaching, 
however. A recent study by the Association 
for Computing Machinery, a national com
puter industry information center, found 
that only 13% of its members stayed in educa
tion after graduating.
The study also found that half the grads 
make $30,000-50,000 a year, while 27 percent 
of them make more than $50,000. By con
trast, college faculty members generally get 
starting salaries between $20,000 and
$3om
Schools are finding that to attract anyone
I am trying to make a strong statement to 
the University. When tampering with the 
environment other peoples ability to oper
ate is compromised, commented Walter.
However, Walter added, There are lots of 
questions as to what he was doing.
According to the official statement, the 
charges were misuse of computer facili
ti. The statement also said, "The permis
sion to withdraw gives Mr. Suzuki an 
opportunity to learn from his experience 
without jeopardy to a further academic 
career.
at all to their high-demand departments, 
they have to pay more than $30,000. W7hen 
they do, the new recruits earn more than 
veteran faculty members in other depart
ments, a situation that causes morale 
problems.
"We havent been cutting dollars for 
faculty, but we havent been able to keep 
pace with the increase in salaries, laments 
Vernon Zimmerman, dean erf the College of 
Commerce and Business Administration at 
Illinois. Our money just doesnt buy as 
much.
Zimmerman used to hire beginning 
accounting instructors for $20,000. In the 
next year, he says, it will be $36,000 to 
$38,000. If we don't pay it, other schools or 
industry will hire our people. The erosion erf 
our faculty comes because the same number 
of dollars wont buy as many teachers. Illi
nois, he says, has lost 12 faculty positions 
continued on page 7
UDS changes
University Dining Service will slightly 
change its schedule for finals week, accord
ing to Director Bob Choate. He also pro
vided several changes that will be 
implemented in the Spring semester.
The food service schedule change will 
only affect the Kiltie Cafe and the Morewood Gardens dining facility. Dinner fiom 
December 12 to 16 will begin at four odoek 
instead of four thirty. At the Kiltie Cafe, 
dinner will end at seven fifteen pm, fifteen 
minutes later than usual.
During Spring semester, Morewood 
Gardens will serve lunch from eleven a.m. to 
two p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays. Also at 
Morewood Gardens, a spec lal weekend 
dinner from six to nine p.m. will feature 
waited table service. The dinner wil cost 
around seven or eight dollars, but contract 
allowances equivalent to four dollars of the 
cost will be honored. More Pizza will open 
at six oclock on Sundays and will allow 
students to combine contract allowance* to 
pay for pizzas
Suzuki will withdraw

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The principles of Newspeak  a CMU dialect
Although 1984 is still four weeks in the future, Skibo, even as the faculty sally forth to claim more erasing them from memory as well. Nominees are
The Tartan has decided to jump on the already of Skibos floorspace (see the letter by Dr. Young Jeff Suzuki, the brothers of ZBT, and the Comp
overloaded bandwagon proclaiming next year as for further edification). Center Software Staff.
Lets remember George Orwell for naming his but of course - Big Brother! And what other And then there are the proles - short for proletabook after our year year. ^Not to be outdone by our face comes to mind but Dean Brad Walter? I o nat, the lower, economically deprived masses of
competitors Time and Newsweek, weve decided to some of us, his presence is as a comforting soul Oceania. Its amazing how our comrades CFA and
toast his masterpiece of political paranoia in tech- available to aid us in times of need. At the same H8cSS are the proles of CMU - departmentally
nological totalitarianism by re-defining some time, he is a sort of watchdog and judge of student deprived of funding and space, a separate lot from
Newspeak words from his novel as they applyr to actions. Forget not, fraternities all, that Rig the world of Engineering and Science that CMU
CMU today. Brother is watching you. showcases.
The thought police are those who electronically CMU may not be as bleak as Orwells 1984, but if
For example, Doublethink is the concept of har- monitor every move made to check for Thought- we arent careful we could be heading in that direcboring two totally opposite ideas in ones mmd crimes and other infractions of rules that are in tion. We must be careful to preserve the basic acasimultaneously (and believing in both, too). This their minds only. No further explanation needed, demic freedoms that we take for granted. It is the
brings to our mind the idea of a Student Union - huh Jeff? maintenance of these bodies of learning which is
where the Powers That Be explain that no Union Unpersons are loathsome characters who are essential to preventing the realization of Orwells
will be built because You students already have eliminated both bodily and from all records, thus nightmare.
Shapiro ponders questions for coming year
Bv Stuart Shapiro four years ago? (Probably, if you happened (Yes, but no more so than usual.) (Refrain from blowing up school buses and
to be a millionaire four years ago.)  Will Jesse Jackson cost Walter Mon- you too can pass as a moderate.)
As we cruise on into 1984, I think it Are you better off now than you will be dale the Democratic Presidential nomina-  How much damage did James Watt 
behooves us (for some obscure reason I four years from now? (That depends. Is tion? (We may end up thanking him for the inflict upon the environment before morhaven t quite figured out) to take a fond and Ronaid Reagan running for re-election?) favor.) tally wounding himself in the foot? (This is
at least pseudo perceptive look back at the \
. year tha. just about was. Its ~ WU1 ,he Sovlcts eventually return to _ Is it really going to go to either Mon-  _ mace wiI1 wi,liam p
been a remarkable year in manv the mtermediate-range nuclear arms negoti- dale or Glenn? (We could do a lot worse.)  ^.1l*mP
respects, as is always the case in ations m Geneva? (Perhaps.) _ What about Gary Hart? (On the other deoressine , 
these sorts of columns. And as - D*  mattCT? < ls Ronald hand, we could also do a lot belter.) _ Pt^
usual, diereareall kinds of questions we can running for re-elect,on?) - Given hissuccessin Grenada, will Rea-  Republicanfund
ponder as the new vear approaches. Hence, ~ Is Waller Mondale reallV a <2Ptlve of gan be tempted to go for more? (Qnly if we . Rraearnrunninc
some pondering* sPial IThal *P* who s can win inside of a w^k.)
Rona^ Reagan run for re- _ ^ . , p. chak#* his Hull maw  Given the disaster in Lebanon, will  How much will tuition increase next
elecuon? (Probably, although for the first primaries? (Sorrv could vou RkiS:"1 ,emPIed to iust 8? (In inverse year? (More than you can afford.)
time in my life I fervently hope that \\ illiam . "  proportion to the number of days remain- And a partridge in a pear tree
Safire is correct in holding an opposite repea* 1 e questlon- ing until the eiection.) Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in
opinion.)  \\ ill the sniping between the two leave _ why the hell is anyone bemoaning the Applied History and is a columnist for The
 Are you better off now than you were the Democratic Party bitter and divided? trials and tribulations of Yasser Arafat? Tartan
Americans emphasize consumerism too much
By Wendy Scott ful purpose do all those extra pieces of plas- bogus. ing this product?" Thats the first step in
Reagans domestic cutbacks have had a tic serve? I used to think they kept the cheese But if CMU didnt have to spend so much overcoming the manipulation of the adverprofound effect in urban areas in the last fresh, but I have found the group- money preparing food which ended up in rising industry . It is only as we begin to seek
three years. Recently, CBS News ran a wrapped cheese stays fresh just as long, the dumpster, then not only might their a responsible pattern of consumption and a
series on hunger in this city. They inter- Then of course, there is the wrapping paper costs (and thus ours) go down, but more realistic use of resources that solutions to
 viewed people at the soup kit- charade. Why do gifts have to be wrapped food might become available in the Pitts- problems such as hunger will become
chens and shelters around the and ribboned and bowed and glittered? Here burgh area. Obviously, more food being posssible.
city who stated that the problem is an industry manufacturing goods which available is no guarantee that those in need Wendy Scott is a senior in Psychology and
is as great now as it was in the meet no human need and serve no useful would receive it. That is why re-evaluation is a columnist for The Tartan.
1930s. The situation today may not be as purpose. Its absurd when you think about and, ultimately, change in individual life- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
dramatic as it was then; no long lines of men it, paying designers and engineers to make a styles, is necessary. m v______
with tin cups and so on, but the soup kit- product of no value. The problem is a complex one, but it is  1^1
chens are feeding as many people today as Last summer I heard on the news that a not without resolution. In becoming aware   ^
thev were fiftv vears ago. laree Canadian paper companv was plan- of mv own consumerism, I have realized . r .. . ,, ..., ...... . , r . . 1 , i, i . r i Editor in Chief...............................Monica CellioOne solution which is frequently pro- mng to use a defoliant containing the now that consumensm is actually a kind of slav- Managing Editor Gregg Bossier
posed to the hunger problem, both in this infamous Agent Orange to kill hard pulp ery. To the extent that I am manipulated to Business Manager Karen Tylak
city and worldwide, is birth control. Assolu- trees in the Novia Scotia forests. Apparently buy, I am not free. News Editor.......................................Pauline Wen
tions go, its very simple. If these Indians, the hard pulp trees, which this company I enjoy being able to say No, I do not Features Editor......................................Pauline Kramer
Mexicans, Blacks, (fill in the blank) would does not use to make paper, were slowing need that product. So, changing our patt- Entertainment Editor..........................Susan Petrie
just stop having so many babies then we the growth of trees used by the company, ems of consumption is not really sacrifice, Sports Editor......................................Ric Medrow
could help them. Our resources are limited. There is clearly something wrong when an drudgery and denial. It is actually very free- Photography Editor.........................Mike Pilewski
We cant even feed all the people here industry would want to do this. The waste- ing. Im still learning how to be more Production Manager....................Carolyn Speranza
already , let alone more, and so on. It does fulness of such a thing: These eight mil- responsible in my consumption. This year I Ad Manager......................................Bonnie Topf
sound convincing. lion trees are in our wav, so well just kill wont buv fancy Christmas wrapping Typesetting Manager................ . Patti Carlisle
.. i i   i  i lit i n .u c i  r Art Director...............................Michael SussmanUnfortunately, it s simplv not true. I am them, is awesome, let alone the irresponsi- pafx*r. I II use the Sunday paper s funnies - .... ... ,  . . . ,  l T . Contributing Editor..................Vincent Guintonot opposed to birth contrci, but it won t bility of spraying such a substance in a pop- or maybe I just won t bother. I used toexam- ^ews Editor Christopher Johnston
solve the hunger problem. In fact, without ulated area. ine each purchase in itself, but now it is Assistant News Editor Doug Blair
serious re-evaluation and change in First Unfortunately, the story disappeared becoming easier to see what is wasteful and ^ Features Editor..................Neal Johnston
World lifesvtles no amount of birth control from the news very rapidly. The residents of what is not. Responsible consumption even- Asst Entertainment............................ Scott Bozic
can really help. Zero population growth is the area were fighting the company, seeking tuallv becomes a habit, just as consumerism Asst. Sports Editor................Christopher Lewis
useless as long as one fifth of the worlds a court injunction against them. Because it does. Its important to ask, Why am I buy- Asst Production Mgr............................Bob Aarhus
population consumes most of its resources. wasnt big enough news, I have not heard  Asst. Ad Manager..............................Andrew Chali
The problem is not lack of food |xr se, it is the outcome. |3HllOfl I OllCy Classifieds........................................ Iara Dieguez
the poor distribution of it which causes Clearly, our wastefulness does have reper- Subscriptions.........................Dana Poffenbergtr
hunger. And it is our verv consumerism, cussions. If we waste or abuse resources here itorial *PP a< the toP f P*** and thf Production s,aff: Bilin- Neil Giwnb,um. .. . ii- , .li. .I official opinion of The I artan tAiUmal Board. Mana Rivas, Steve Volan.cultivated bv manufacturers and advertisers, then thev are not available elsewhere. And .  , , . , ., ,7 l/Iurnm are the opinions of individual authors who _______________________________ ________________
whic h produces this grossly unequal distri- elsewhere is sometimes within our own city. are dually cm Hit- Tartan staff, but the opinions are Ckjpyrighl<c I98.S by The Tartan. Hk* Editorial Board
but ion. A few examples come to mind Did you ever wonder why food at OMU is so not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. reserves the right to withhold from publication any
which illustrate the absurd and tragic results expensive? Well, there are several reasons. Letters to the editor are opinions of mdiiidual authors copy it deems unfit for publication. Fxlitorial Offices:
of out wasteful consumerism. but one of the main ones is waste. Even dav who are muelly <>!the 1 'nrrsity commun- Skibo 50, (112) 578-2111 Business Offices: Skibo 52.
s- i  i f , . ,, t ii i r i ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and /4l2i 578-2112 21 hcjur nhone (412)578-2113 MailingOne industry whose abuse of resources is rjeople return travs halfway full of focxl, , . , . , . ,  . , imjui f>ncxi,ni^;./o^iij. ivMIIIiiK.... , ' ,i include the wnter s address and phone number for address: Box 17, Schenley Park. Pittsburgh PA 15213.
VtT\ great is rne packaging industry, rd which is then thrown into th(* uum|)SttT. imftcatton. Names will be withheld upon request. Funded by the Activities Fee.
example, why do slices of American cheese I'm not saying, Fat your |X*as, think of all The Tartan resen<es the right to condense or reject any aii rights reserved,
have to be* individually wrapped? What use- the starv ing c hildren in India. Ihat's letter. ________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

December 6, 1983The TartanPage 3
Letters:
Computing changes needed
Editor
It is the computing requirement in this 
college. Everyone has to take it. Just gel it 
over with, there is no use in prolonging the 
pain. It doesnt have to be pretty; no one 
looks at your computing grade anyway. J ust 
do it. Then he goes on to remind me of the 
struggle I have already undergone through
out the first several weeks of the course.
The above quote is a paraphrase of that 
somewhat windy statement I believe reflects 
the general opinion of the adminstration of 
our university. I am extremely disappointed 
and concerned with the attitude this admin
istration upholds in reference to the intro
duction of computing to the undergraduate 
student body here at Camegie-Mellon.
What exactly does prolonging the pain 
imply? First of all, that the administration 
sees itself as a kind of torturer; but more 
importantly, that it refuses to try to correct 
itself, assuming that it is right and the stu
dent is wrong, and forces the student to do as 
he is supposed to. In all sincerity, I feel 
that this authoritative attitude is detrimental 
to the quality of education at CamegieMellon University, specifically to the com
puting department at the elementary or 
beginning level.
I urge the University Teaching Center to 
attempt to understnad my view of the qual
ity of education. While working briefly at 
the Center last semester I discovered that a 
majority of students feel that enthusiasm, 
|| interest, and concern of a teacher are of 
unequaled importance in defining an ideal 
instructor. Dr. Eisenstein and Dr. Moore (to 
apologetically sample from memory among 
many whom were appraised) are said by 
students to care about their work, about 
their classes, and appear to possess the above 
characteristics of the ideal teacher. It is this 
caring disposition which I feel is lacking in 
the administration. It is this lack which I feel 
is bound to limit the acceptance of, and thus 
the understanding, of a computer-filled 
environment.
Students not excluded
In ignoring the need for a change in atti
tude towards teaching computer science, 
and in slighting the need for the develop
ment of a system which will introduce com
puters effectively (so that students can 
understand them and use them well), 
Camegie-Mellon faces serious conflict in the 
future. Improving student comprehension, 
manipulation, and acceptance of computers 
will no doubt prove priceless in view of the 
widespread expansion of computer facilities 
at this institution. Introducing personal 
computers is no small step, and other large 
steps must be taken to insure that the goal 
will be reached effectively.
What I have presented here is the mere 
tip-of-the-iceberg-excuse-the-cliche. I hope 
this will stimulate greater interest from both 
the student body and the administration, for 
a mutual effort will no doubt be necessary to 
solve all the conflicts arising from such 
changes, changes which I feel should be 
made, must be made. I am confident that all 
can be worked out for the Best.
John A. Parras 
Sophomore H&SS
A svzDJXEcwRy? vieUL, iris 
/t fciitEcnmy retate^ w/t/j/is 
TartnAR pj^scroRy \jseb rc... *
Abortion is taking of human life
Editor
We would like to set a few facts straight 
about the abortion issue. The first question 
is when does life begin?, as Peter Herz 
points out in his letter of November 8. The 
answer can only be given by the biologists, 
who, after all, are the experts on the study of 
life.
According to biology, life does not begin; 
it is continuous. The fertilized egg comes 
from the union of a living sperm and living 
egg cell. It is not just the pro-life biologists 
who believe this. Garrett Hardin (Biology, 
University of California), an abortion-rights 
activist, says, But when does life really 
begin? The true answer is simple: Never... 
It just passes on from one cell to another.
In his letter of November 8, Daniel 
Tobias, by stating, It (the fetus) apparently 
cant be proven to be human life . . ., 
changes the question to when does life 
become human? The answer: Never. Life 
does not become human; it either is or is 
not. Therefore the fetus must be regarded as 
life from the point of conception. Biologist 
Jerome Lejuene points out, If a fertilized 
egg is not by itself a full human being, it 
could never become a man, because some
thing would have to be added to it, and we 
know that does not happen. Joseph 
Fletcher, leading abortion proponent, 
agrees, There is no argument, of course, 
about a human fetus being a stage of homo 
sapiens; it is easily recognizable biologically.
Club will help meet faculty's needs
Editor
The editorial concerning the Faculty 
iClub in the Novembei 22 issue of The Tar
'S tan contains several errors of fact that need to 
jbe corrected. First, the statement, Due in 
part to the strong movement against this,
| the Faculty Senate has decided to postpone 
its decision., is incorrect. In fact, on Febru
ary 24, 1983, the Faculty Senate passed a 
resolution endorsing the creation of a 
Faculty Club, with Kresge Faculty Dining 
Room as its dining facility. This resolution 
also authorized the formation of the Faculty 
iClub. A preliminary report of this commitj tee has been approved by the Faculty Affairs 
j Council and by the Executive Committee of 
the Faculty Senate. The committee is now 
drafting a charter which will set guidelines 
for the operation of the Faculty Club. This 
jcharter will be submitted to the Faculty 
j Senate at its next regular meeting, on Janu- |ary 26, 1984.
All of the above information was given by 
me to a Tartan reporter on about November 
1 - but it seems not to have found its way to 
the Editors desk. Discussion of the charter 
was not placed on the agenda for the 
j November meeting of the Senate because 
there was too much other pressing business. 
There has never been any postponement.
Second, the statement, They want their 
wn t lub. In the so-called Student Union., 
Iniplies that the faculty are trying to take 
SOmething that belongs to the students. In
fact, Skibo was never intended to be a Stu
dent Union; this point is made in Pauline 
Kramers article on page 7 of the November 
22 Tartan. Skibo was designed and built as a 
multi-purpose facility, with some space for, 
student activities, some for faculty activities, 
and some general-purpose space. In particu
lar, the Kresge Faculty Dining Room was 
built using funds given by the Kresge foun
dation specifically for the purpose of build
ing a faculty dining room. The use of this 
room was in fact restricted to faculty from 
1960 to 1975, when the then-current food 
service management announced, without 
cosulting anyone else, that it was open to the 
public.
Next, the role of the Faculty Diningroom 
as . . . a place where students and faculty 
can get together and talk ... is mostly an 
illusion. I eat lunch there nearly every week
day, and I rarely see students sitting with 
faculty. Instead, students sit with other stu
dents, and faculty with other faculty. There 
is very little of the kind of interaction the 
Editor describes.
Next, nobody is proposing to exclude stu
dents completely. Instead, they are to be 
admitted only as guests of faculty members. 
This arrangement should in fact facilitate 
interaction between students and faculty 
members by eliminating the de facto segre
gation mentioned above.
The need of students to have access to 
faculty has to be balanced by the universitys
need for healthy interactions among faculty 
members from various disciplines. Informal 
conversation over lunch is an ideal medium 
for this interaction. There is a perception 
that the various faculties have become 
increasingly compartmentalized in recent 
years, and one of the principal purposes of a 
Faculty Club is to try7 to reverse this trend. 
Many faculty menbers who formerly used 
the Faculty Dining Room have been driven 
away by the long lines and overcrowding, 
and it is hoped that restricting the room to 
faculty use only will help bring them back 
and promote the kind of interaction among 
faculty that we need for a healthy university.
Finally, I would like to make a personal 
comment. I personally value very highly the 
opportunity to sit with my colleagues in 
history, music, and the other disciplines, for 
quiet lunchtime conversation. I dont think 
this makes me a segregationist or that I am 
insensitive to student needs. On the con
trary, I believe firmly that I have as much 
awareness and concern for the needs of stu
dents as anybody on this campus, and I 
think anyone who has ever sat in one of my 
classes knows this. But I have my own needs, 
too, and one of these is a chance to nurture 
my own growth by meeting with faculty 
members from across the campus. I think 
the Faculty Club will help me meet that 
need, and I am in favor of it.Hugh D. Young 
Professor of Physics
Nor is there any question of its being alive.
Once these facts are dear, it also becomes 
obvious that abortion is the taking of a 
human life. Even the abortionsits admit it 
themselves. The pro-abortion journal Cali
fornia Medicine states, ... it has been neces
sary to separate the idea of abortion from the 
idea of killing . . . The result has been a 
curious avoidance of the scientific fact . . . 
that life begins at conception . . . The very 
considerable semantic gymnastics which are 
required to rationalize abortion as anything 
but the taking of a human life would be 
ludicrous if they were not often put under 
socially impeccable auspices. Planned Par
enthood states simply, An abortion 
requires an operation. It kills the life of a 
baby after it has begun.
The fetus is not just an extension of its 
mothers body as Carl Fisher and Liz Smith 
claim in their letter of November 8. In effect, 
it takes over the mothers body, controlling 
the hormone system and causing the many 
physiological changes which occur during 
pregnancy. It even sets its own birthdate. 
The mother and child do not share every
thing: air, food, blood. The child has its 
own circulatory system, usually its own 
blood type. It breathes, not air from the 
mother, but the amniotic fluid of its own 
sac.
Herz seems confused about the adoption 
alternative. In reality, there is an excess of 
couples waiting to adopt (check with any 
adoption agency), including a waiting list 
to adopt Downs Syndrome children, prime 
abortion candidates. In regards to Fisher 
and Smiths claim of abuse of the 
unwanted children, 90% of battered child
ren were planned pregnancies (study by Dr. 
Edward Lenoski, University of Southern 
California). As for the dangerous illegal 
operations, backstreet abortions have not 
decreased since the legalization of abortion 
(Dr. Jack Wilkie, Handbook on Abortion).
We hope these facts will serve to put this 
issue in proper perspective and help you to 
make a more educated decision concerning 
abortion.
Felicia Thibeault, Art *87 
Terece Turton, Physics *86, President 
CMU Association for Life
More opinion on pages 4, 6,18, 20. 22

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanDecember 6, 1983
More letters:
15-111 tutor protests arguments for Suzuki
Editor
I am writing this letter in response to the 
two letters regarding the Jeff Suzuki inci
dent in the Nov. 15 Tartan. First, let me 
quote from the Student Handbook, page 44, 
Section Abuse of Computing Facilities: 
Use of the computing priviledge to inter
fere with normal operation of University 
computing systems ... is prohibited and is 
subject to severe disciplinary action.
First, from the letter of Tracey Pejouhy, 
Jeff demonstrated his nested subdirectory 
file structures never crashed the system. So 
what? The point is, it interfered with the 
work (real work, not hacking) of other stu
dents. Second, she quotes the 15-lxx hand
book which states we encourage people to 
exercise their curiosity in a productive 
manner to which she comments and yet 
Jeff Suzuki has been recommended for sus
pension for following these exact policies. 
Do you consider making a system unusable 
by others productive?
Next, to the letter not claimed to be
wholly based on hard, cold facts. This letter 
mentions Mr. Suzuki returned to his main 
directory level and tried to remove his subdi
rectories, but to no avail. So he called Chris 
Chow (Unix expert?) to advise him, but he 
had no luck either. Perhaps Mr. Suzuki 
could have consulted one the tutors on duty 
who are instructed in these operations. Per
haps he knew he was doing something 
wrong and didnt want anyone else to 
know?
Then several days later he logged in to 
find his subdirectories gone. He naturally 
assumed that the combination of attempt
ing to remove subdirectories and logging 
out had deleted them. Anyone thats ever 
used any of the University computers knows 
that when you delete a file the computer 
types a message to the terminal to tell you 
that the deletion has been completed. If any 
of my files magically disappeared I would 
find out why. There are no assumptions 
with computer logic.
Then I quote, Two weeks later Suzuki
received notice, quite through accident, that 
he was scheduled for a hearing; a message 
that Mr. Miller was to have sent Suzuki of 
this hearing was either not sent or not deli
vened to its destination. What do you 
mean, by accident? Did a bird fly by and 
drop it on his head? Perhaps if hed read the 
readme bulletin board (on which all perti
nent course information is posted  and all 
students are instructed to read it) he w'ould 
have read the message from Phil Miller that, 
Mr. Jeff Suzuki should see me right away. 
Or perhaps in his haste to make waste he 
overlooked this?
The letter continues, How can the board 
declare that Suzuki knew exactly what he 
was doing when Suzuki did not even know' 
how to remove subdirectories? Why did he 
create them then? And, as stated before, why 
didnt he ask one of the tutors on duty how 
to get rid of them? Perhaps he was afraid?
Next, quoting the Miller memorandum, 
Suzuki was unrepenting and refused to 
mend his ways. I talked to Phil Miller,
Suzuki debate has gone on too long
Editor
For the last tw o weeks I have been reading 
about the Suzuki Scandal. I have two points 
to make on this subject:
1. I dont think that Suzukis punishment 
was as unjust as he would like everyone to 
believe.
2. I don't think The Tartan should print 
so many letters on such mundane topics.
It sounds like Suzukis little experiment 
involved more than harmless curiosity, but 
less than malicious destruction. Having 
w orked as a tutor in that particular terminal 
room I can say that people w ho are there for
other than classwork purposes are a nui
sance (whether it's 3 in the morning or not). 
People who want to exercise their curious 
minds in such fashion are not an asset to an 
introductory -level environment. The system 
has bugs, the loads are high, and the stu
dents are, for the most part, frustrated. The 
added problems of system crashes and lack 
of disk space do nothing but increase this 
frustration.
The articles and letters related to this topic 
have been long, tedious, and redundant 
accounts of one persons computer abuse. 
The Tartan has a policy that allows con
densing of letters to the editor. For the 
benifit of those who are not computerliterate at such a low level or are not inter
ested by details such as how many empty 
subdirectories it takes to exceed the disk 
space of a VAX, I would like to suggest that 
you use your right to edit your published 
mail. After all, these fine hackers who are up 
all night long making earth-shaking discov
eries like Suzukis dont want their secrets 
disclosed.
David Marshall 
Math/CS 84
personally, before the UDC board ever met 
to discuss the incident. He told me that Jeff 
would not admit he had done anythin! 
wrong and was not willing to listen to reason or straighten up his act. If a student 
displays such arrogance, what choice doe 
Phil have but to enforce discipline? At that 
time, Phil only wanted to have him realize 
his mistake and straighten up. Several stu
dents who had played around and got 
caught earlier in the semester met with 
Phil, and after admitting their mistake(s) 
were let off scot free and have caused no 
trouble since.
Also, after Phil decided Jeff would fail the 
course and have to retake it in the spring, he 
notified Jeff that he was to stay out of the 
intro terminal room completely. Jeff has 
been in there numerous times since. Alsol 
personally have seen Jeff in the MMP termi
nal room after the UDC told him he was to 
stay out of all University computing facil
ities. I, too, would say he is unwilling to 
mend his ways.
This letter also mentions the abuse of the 
system by high school students this summer. 
The students that created problems this 
summer could not be suspended because 
they were not connected with the University. 
However, several of them were failed for the 
course and punished to the full extent 
possible.
It seems that this semester the troubles 
with students experimenting on the sys
tem have increased. Perhaps that prompted 
the accusation that Phil is looking for z 
scapegoat. Possible, but highly improba 
ble. I know Phil personally and besides 
being a nice guy, he is reasonable and does 
care about his students. I do not agree with 
continued on page 22
Faculty Senate proposes new policy
Alcohol policy will widen student-faculty chasm
By Christopher Johnston
CMU is facing one of its most formidable 
intellectual crisises in recent history. This 
crisis has taken the form of a proposal that 
hopes to solve the problem of alcohol abuse 
" on campus. It was mighty noble 
of James Hoburg and the Student Affairs Council to propose 
their amendments, but I really 
dont think they know what theyre doing.
W hat this brutal resolution proposes is 
that all undergraduates under the age of 21 
be barred from attending University func
tions that serve alcohol, or ac tiv ities serving 
alcohol which are funded by University 
money. The only way that any alcohol will 
be served to any undergrads is if a dean, 
department head, or perhaps a fac ulty advi
sor, is willing to check to make sure that 
everybody is 21 years old. However, alcohol 
can be served at all graduate student func
tions, since most are of legal age.
All picnics and parties that serve alcohol 
anywhere out of doors on University 
grounds w ill be forbidden. No booze in any 
hallways or classrooms, either. There will 
no longer be allowed any alcohol at any 
fraternity, sorority, or dormitory party that 
advertises admittance to outside members. (I 
found it interesting to consider how many 
pledges the fraternities will get next fall with 
a dry rush.)
Im not denying the validity of the Faculty 
Senates motivations, which have every
thing to do with the recent near-death of a 
freshman at ZBT when he tried to break the 
freshman record foi the number of shots real 
men can consume in a short time. As the 
resolution put it: The current atmosphere 
presented to freshmen upon their arrival on 
campus leads, for many, to consumption of
large amounts of alcohol as an integral part 
of social iif 
The Facu.  is absolutely right in
that respect. I win down until the
witnesses are long de,< me of the disgust
ing bodily functions I performed out of 
socially acceptable context freshman year, 
after getting loaded at frat parties during 
rush.
Alcohol also does something to peoples 
inhibitions. Never have I come so close to 
getting my face squashed at this University 
than at a rush party when a lumbering lout, 
who was soaked to the gills with beer, was 
several times my size and weight, and at least 
half my IQ (or so I fancied), stopped quaf
fing his drink and chose rather to throw it 
on me. Naturally , I chose the route of health 
and happiness and bac ked dow n. I debated 
going back and shooting him, but soon 
regained my humor and ego. Now he occa
sionally walks by me on campus, a repressed 
look gracing his bov ine image, and I realize 
that if he hadnt been drunk, he would have 
been embarrassed by what a scum-sucking 
babboon he was, and probably wouldnt 
have accosted poor innocent me.
However, the loss in this situation far out
weighs any gain in puritanical value. This 
resolution, if passed, will widen the chasm 
of intellectual disunity between the faculty 
and the undergraduate student body. It may 
also threaten the academic harmony that the 
CMU Teaching Center has tried to create 
between the faculty and undergrads.
How often does any undergrad interact 
with a fac ulty member outside of the class
room? Almost never. The only time that 
undergrads meet faculty in a nonprofessional setting is at an occasional colloquim, talk, or reading. This also works the 
other w-ay in that faculty members, who care 
about undergrads and who want to interact 
with them outside class, can only encounter 
them at these same events.
Youve probably heard me preach in the 
past that CMU is an isolationist university 
where the students are apathetic and the 
faculty are career, as opposed to intellectu
ally, oriented. This fact is paii, <  i; ie, but 
also constricting to those fewT academics and 
students who are concerned with intellec
tual exchange. This minority has been 
stomped under the feet of oppresive egocentricity, and only recently has tried to assert 
itself. This resolution, if passed, will c learly 
dielate who is and who is not a part of the 
Universitys priviledged class.
If you feel strongly, one way or the other 
about this issue, and the possible consequen 
ces of the proposals implementation, find 
time today at 3:30 pm to be at the Warner 
Hall Board Room, which is on the f 
floor of that building. A note on the copy of 
the proposal I have says that the session is 
open to all members of the University. How
ever, only Senate members are eligible to 
propose motions or vote. However, your 
attendance, accented by your rude com 
ments on Senate members dress and per
sonal habits, may influence this im>oi^nt 
decision. See you there.
Chris Johnston is a junior majoring W 
Great we Professional Writing and Philo
sophy, and is the Associate News Editor of 
The Far tan.

---------------------------------------------------

Neewsetued
:yoBomc:***.ymcymKnmcym(yme>mk m&ymcymcymcymt mm>mc mecymyonfoe
ilhtfuwecp
Tonight! 
December 6th 
Room 45, Skibo 
7:00 p.m.
Interested but cant attend the meeting: 
Call The Tartan at x2111.
Positions
available
Editor-in-chief(one semester of experience 
The Tartan is required)
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
News Editor 
Features Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor 
Dossier Editor
with
Appointments
Production Manager 
Advertising Manager 
Typesetting Manager 
Art Director
. . . that crucial experience which classes cant teach; 
positions available.
Were looking for Advertising and Production managers. Both offer the opportunity to learn 
about the operations of a newspaper  you could be planning ad placement or giving advice on 
paste-up. The result: real experience for your future.
Interested and want a more graphic description? Call The Tartan and ask for Bonnie Topf, 
Advertising Manager or Carolyn Speranza, Production Manager. Spent your last dime? Stop by 
Skibo 50 any Sunday preceeding classes.The Tartan. It could be you.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanDecember 6, 1983
More opinion:
Outlawing drugs violates individual liberties
By Dan Tobias
Several weeks ago I made a brief reference 
to my belief that marijuana should be legal
ized. At that time I didnt give a complete 
statement of the reasons for this belief, and 
apparently not everyone under
stood them. One letter to the edi
tor last issue asks why, since I 
myself state I believe smoking 
pot is unhealthy, I still insist on maintain
ing that it is a victimless crime.
To get things straight from the begin
ning, I believe that not just marijuana, but 
all drugs that are presently illegal or res
tricted, should be made fully legal. My belief 
is simply that individual liberty is a desira
ble and moral end. This is not an alien 
principle, it is the principle on which this 
country was founded. However, liberty is 
meaningless if it consists only of the liberty 
to do what is considered good for you. 
What course of action in this world is 
entirely without risk? Skiing, skydiving, 
smoking cigarettes, and eating a candy bar 
all carry various levels of risk to the health
and safety of the person who does them.
But if a person decides the pleasure and 
benefits derived from the activities exceed 
the risk, who is to question him? Some face
less bureaucrat or politician? I do not see 
how the use of drugs differs qualitatively 
from the above examples. These activities 
dont harm anybody w ho does not agree to 
voluntarily shoulder the risk, which is what 
the concept of victimless crime means.
You might say, though, that it is sheer 
foolishness to abuse drugs, and those fool
ish enough to do it should be protected from 
the consequences. May I point out, by crimi
nalizing drug use, especially in the case of 
pot smoking, the law causes much more 
harm to the user than the drug itself can 
possibly do. In the name of helping the 
drug user, he is put in jail and given a 
permanent criminal record.
But even if it really was for the good of the 
drug user, it is still not desirable. Herbert 
Spencer said in 1844 that The ultimate 
result of shielding men from the effects of
folly is to fill the world w ith fools. If people 
are forcibly prevented from doing anything 
foolish, they soon forget how to distinguish 
foolishness from sensible actions, since they 
no longer have any need to exercise this 
capability on their own.
Okay, you say, I know' its ridiculous 
to throw' people in jail for smoking mari
juana, but shouldnt the law still go after 
those evil drug pushers? But the right to
use drugs would be meaningless if there 
were no way of obtaining them. The verv 
basis of the free-market system is that pro. 
ducers and retailers move to provide the 
goods which consumers wrant or need. You 
may think some particular kind of merchan
dise is useless, but the company selling jt 
would be out of business if the public did 
not want to buy it.
continued on page 22
Reader "disturbed"
Sculpture vandalized
Editor
This letter comes in response to the dread
ful action taken by some ruthless CMU stu
dent On Wednesday, November 30, 1983,1 
erected a thought provoking, original mod
em sculpture. It consisted of three triangular 
obelisks, positioned on the west comer of 
the Cut, protruding from the ground near 
Doherty Hall.
Before another day had passed, these 
blocks were inconsiderately moved to loca
tions with absolutely no intrinsic signifi
cance. At the writing of this letter they are
spaced randomly over the grounds of the 
campus. Their present placement reveals 
none of the initial value inherent in the 
work.
With this letter I wish to appeal to the 
artistic feeling of the person who displaced 
my creation, and all others. I ask that, in the 
future, such incidents be avoided by a bit of 
respect for the creations of other people. 
Only by exhibiting mutual cooperation can 
the people of todays society continue to 
function as one.
Name withheld by request
Editor:
I wras greatly disturbed by the November
22 article 20,000 protest invasions, US pol
icy. How could the Tartan editor allow 
such a slanted piece to be published on the 
front page under the guise of a news 
anaylsis?
The article paints a highly romanticized 
picture; They walk side by side in the chill 
November wind.. .. concerned with peace, 
freedom and the future of their people. 
Although the invasions critics are exten
sively quoted, nowhere is the administra
tions view presented.
Among its many accusations the article 
contains few hard facts. Notable facts left out 
include: over 90% of Grenadas population 
welcomed the interventio of forces from 
America as well as six other Caribbean 
nations. Mentioned by the article is criticism 
of the invasion by seven Congresmen. How
ever what is left out is the widespread bipar
tisan political support the President has 
received from the other 578 Congressmen. 
Throughout the tone and content is w'hat 
you would expect from a Sandinista newsrelease. A real analysis would present both
sides of the issue; this one clearly does not.!
An article presented as news whic h is so 1 
obviously biased is offensive. However I 
would encourage Ms. Alfonsi (theauthor) to : 
continue to exercise her right of free speech \ 
(which is allowed in the US, unlike Nicara-1 
gua) with the suggestion that she move her 
comments to the more appropriate opinion 
page. j
Clarice V. Simmons 
Sophmore H&SS
Stench in GrillI
is nauseating
Editor
Have you noticed the nauseating smell at 
the Tartan grill lately? The horrible stench 
always gives me an uncontrollable desire to \ 
hold my gut and run.
This raises other related questions; Is
there a backed up sewer or has this been |
done by the food service? Or maybe there are 
too many dead rats in the basement of Skibo.
Peter Maivald 
Chemistry
ComputerWise
An Accessible Guide to 
What Personal Computers 
Can Do for You. Plus an 
Up-to-Date Catalogue for 
Buyers
by Henry Horenstein and 
Eliot Tarlin
ComputerWise describes 
very explicitly, with the help 
of detailed illustrations, 
what the important ele
ments of the computer are 
 both hardware and soft
ware  and how they oper
ate. Then it catalogues the 
most important brands in 
the personal computer 
market and gives the strong 
and weak points of each. 
Along the way it explains 
how operating systems run; 
what machines run which 
programs, and what devices 
each uses. $9.95
For the first time in paperback
MASTERING THE ART OF FRENCH
COOKING
Volume I by Julia Child, Louisette Bertholle, and Simone
Beck
Volume II by Julia Child and Simone Beck
The books that introduced us to the unique culinary genius of Julia Child, brought the 
delights of French cuisine into our kitchens  and changed forever the way America cooks. 
The complete text (gently revised for today) in the same large, elegant format as the original hard-cover editions.
VOL I $12.95 
VOL II $12.95 
BOXED SET $25.95
ComputerWise
OVER THE COUNTER 
F,; 5 : THAT
V,
TheN HMWlM * DM Tirfc
Over the Counter Pills 
that Don't Work
The book has been organ
ized for use in two ways. 
The reader can look up a 
particular symptom or ail
ment and find a simple des
cription of what is needed, 
an evaluation of available 
remedies, and suggestions 
for alternatives. Or the index 
of brand names, with an 
evaluation of the product 
and alternative remedies, 
can be consulted. $6.95
Do your Christmas Shopping at the Bookstore!
emu bookstoreIN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

December 6, 1983The TartanPage 7
GET'EM WHILE THEY LAST!
College students migrate to public schools
Many find private schools too expensive
The great migration of private col
lege students to less expensive public 
hools apparently is not happening, 
according to a new study of some 1200 pri
vate colleges by the National Association of 
Independent Colleges and Universities 
(NAICU).
After losing about 20,000 students last fall, 
full-time freshman enrollment at private 
colleges nationwide rose by 1.17%, says NAICUs Julianne Thrift.
The picture in general is quite uncer
tain, explains NAICU Executive Director 
John Phillips, but the overall trend is at 
least more stable than last year, with a gener
ally positive tilt to the data.
Last years decline was the first for private 
schools since NAICU began keeping track 
in 1977- It was not supposed to be the last, 
ither. Many college observers predicted the
first round of federal student aid cuts made 
in 1981 would begin driving students to less 
expensive public campuses by 1983.
The cuts will most likely cause a shift 
in enrollment patterns from more expensive 
private schools to public colleges, Dallas 
Martin of the National Association of Stu
dent Financial Aid Administrators pre
dicted in August, 1981. Martins and others 
worst fears appeared to be coming to pass 
last fall.
Thrift now attributes last years enrol
lment decline to uncertainties about the 
long-term prospects for federal student aid, 
to the poor economic climate, and to a small 
demographic decline in the number of 18- 
year-olds in the population.
But in light of this years growth in the 
number of freshmen at private colleges,
areer courses rising
continued from page 1
over the past five years because it cant fund
them.
The severity of the problem is new 
use of the time frame over which it was 
eated, he observes. In the past, interest in 
ertain majors developed gradually. But 
nterest in these subjects has grown up over a 
riod of three or four years. We havent had 
ime to find facilities and recruit faculty.
For whatever reasons  equipment, 
faculty shortages or some combination of 
the two  J.D. Connor of the Association of 
)llege Registrars and Admissions Officers 
finds many schools are having to evaluate 
leir course offerings in terms of volume. 
Some are doing more re-evaluating than
Phillips says, I think weve passed through 
the worst of the political downdraft. Con
gress kept aid funding intact for 1981, and 
even increased it this year in some areas.
But it is still too early to draw any con
clusions about long-term private college 
enrollment trends, he cautions.
Regionally, the souths private schools 
freshman class increased by 4.01%. Fresh
man class enrollment in Midwestern inde
pendent colleges rose by 2.39% and on 
mid-Atlantic campuses by nearly one per 
cent. Private colleges in the northeast lost 
1.31% of their freshman enrollment, while 
western schools lost .17%.
The effects of the enrollment fluctuations 
on individual schools may not be very dra
matic. Marquettes increase of 42 students, 
for example, amounts to just a drop in the 
bucket, says Registrar Dr. Roman Gakoski.
Engineering offers down
others. Private colleges, which are generally 
more flexible and can more readily tap 
endowment funds, seem less drastically 
affected by the shift in course demand.
But public colleges in depressed areas are 
having probably the worst time coping. 
West Virginia University, for example, has 
lost 106 faculty members in the past year, 
largely because it didnt have the money to 
offer competitive salaries, Kidder says.
West Virginias course shortages, 
moreover, run deeper than the meal ticket 
classes, he adds. The school has had to can
cel classes in such basic freshman courses as 
algebra, chemistry,psychology and English 
composition because there was no one to 
teach them.
CPS  The job market for recent engineer
ing grads has been cut in half, and starting 
salaries given to the grads who do get jobs 
have leveled off or declined, a new study by 
the Scientific Manpower Commission 
(SMC) says.
The grads of 1982 could pretty much 
name their jobs and their prices, recalls the 
SMCs Eleanor Babco. But job offers are 
down by about 50% for last springs gradu
ates, she adds, and weve even seen some 
drops in salaries for new engineers.
We dont know if it was primarily the 
recession or if [last springs grads] were just 
taking the first offers they got and not wait
ing for higher offers, she says.
Recruiting was down tremendously for 
the last school year, she notes, however, so 
we think it was more that the number of job 
offers was actually down.
Among chemical engineers, for instance, 
the number of job offers has declined from 
30,816 in 1982 to 26,736 for 1983. Starting 
salaries for chemical engineers also 
dropped, Babco notes, as did starting pay 
for chemical, civil, and geological engineers.
Although job offers were down in all 
engineering fields and many suffered drops
in starting salaries, grads in a few fields got 
increases in starting pay. Electrical engi
neering salaries were up 3.1%, while petro
leum engineering salaries were up only 
1.1%, Babco reports.
Job offers as well as salaries were down for 
chemistry, agriculture, and other physical 
and earth science majors, the report also 
reveals. Salaries increased for math, biology, 
and computer science majors.
Time covers
News reportage goes artsey until 
December 10 at a display of Time magazine 
covers in room 100 of Skibo. The display of
23 of the news magazines covers features 
newsmakers from the Pittsburgh area.
Photographs and artists renditions of the 
cover people represent a number of Pitts
burgh celebrities. Just a few are author Ger
trude Stein, discoverer erf the polio vaccine
Doctor Jonas Salk, and playwright George 
S. Kaufman. A news release for the event
commented that Each individual has made 
a contribution to the mosaic of events that 
shaped Americas history.
only 29$ with tlje purcljase of a Regular or Large soft drink
 university 
brought to you by serviceA Pinch in a Pouch.
-------Prize:
10 Day Trip for 10 Lucky Students 
to Daytona. All Expenses Paid..
^ Includes Meals, Hotel, Travel.
4 VIP Guest Experience.
FIRST PRIZE:
Two Wind Surfers
SECOMD PRIZE:
Two Home Computers
THIRD PRIZE:
100 Skoal andit Racing Jackets
FOURTH,PRIZE:
J.00D Skoat T-Shirts
Look for the Official Entry Blank at the SKOAL BANDITS Spring Fling Sweepstakes Display at your local college bookstore or local retail outlet.
OFFICIAL RULES
Nothing to buy, here is all you do:

---------------------------------------------------

TOM KERR
- I * v ~ *
,   ' -  f % s>   1
Associate Professor of 
Industriai Administration and 
Law 
Graduate School of Industriai
Administration
CMV
Nayig7NyU7D 
S|ggi7y3
Legal and managerial aspects of the 
Electrical Manufacturing Price-fixing 
Conspiracy cases of the 60s
Tuesday, December 6, 1983
4:30 p.m.
Wherrett Room
PDLS
Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
By PAULINE W. KRAMER *
Tartan Features Editor
If professors were required once a year to 
become students at Carnegie-MelIon, Mike 
Weber should be a candidate to teach them. 
Why? Because in his words, I honestly 
believe that I learn things from my
students.
The urban historian was rewarded for his 
efforts in making the classroom a two-way 
exchange rather than a one-way lecture.
This past September he won the Ryan 
teaching award; although the CMU profes
sor cant put his finger on why exacdy he 
was singled out. He is undoubtedly proud of 
the award, but his modesty and belief that 
hes not doing anything out of the ordinary 
in the classroom prevent him from answer
ing why he won, and not another.
There are lots of good teachers heremany people who are deserving erf this 
awaid. But people dont teach for awards. 
They teach for something that's emotion
ally stimulating.
Weber feels that his teaching is compati
ble with his research interests, particularly 
with his grad class in historical biographies. 
Students go out into the city and do actual 
block studies, then they report landruse 
patterns, which one simply charges in pat
terns over time. A students project could
consist of tracing the spacial or habitation 
over an 80 year period. Likewise,
Weber, a Pittsburgh native finds his city an 
exciting place and a good model because 
there are lots of ethnic group and sources. 
The wealth of cultures provided Weber with 
enough information to co-write a book 
called Lives of Their Own; Blacks, Italians, 
and Poles in Pittsburgh, 1900-1960. He is 
also working on a biography of former Pitts
burgh mayor David Lawrence.
Weber received his doctor of arts degree 
from CMU in 68, taught at Central Michi
gan University for four years, and returned 
here in 72. He is presently the director of 
graduate studies in history and teaching 
Development erf American Society (an 
H&SS core course) and survey of American 
Urban History, in addition to his graduate 
course and personal research.
The core course holds a warm place in 
Webers heart because the sophomores are 
still excitedI like to teach undergraduates 
at beginning levels because you get to know 
them. He adds, however, that he enjoysall 
of his classes but all in different ways.
When I think about teaching, there are 
two things you have to begin with, says 
Weber. One is a respect for interests and the 
ability of students, all students. Youre deal
ing with human beings with lots of curiosiues and interests; you have to capture those 
interests.
The other is the attitude towards the sub
ject. You must believe what youre talking
about is important and you have a responsi
bility to present it in the most comprehensi
ble way to students. But you have to always 
work at that.
Weber had an undergraduate professor at 
Edinboro, who uncondously became a 
model for me. What I admired was he was a 
bright man. He paused and added, But 
more than that was his enthusiasm and his 
sense of importance about what we were 
learning and what was projected. The work 
was always importantfor him and for us. 
Nearly 20 years later, students are unhesitant in offering the same lauditory remarks 
about Weber. Says sophomore Bob Pfeiffer 
erf Weberss atdtude toward Development of 
American Society, Hes enthusiasdc about 
it, even though its only a core course. I went 
into Dr. Webers course and he said, I think 
Ive got a great course plan. Hes definitely 
into what hes doing. Its a very positive 
thing to have an enthusiastic teacher in the 
university.
continued on page 10Group takes AT&T shares
Recent Capitol ralliers voice opinion on present foreign policy.
Group aims M 
for amnesty
By PAULINE W. KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor 
Tonight at 5:30 in Skibo 11 Neil Galpren 
will lx* speaking out on behalf of those who 
are unable to excuse themselves.
Galpren is the coordinator of Amnesty 
International, a group that aims for, a 
worldwide movement of people working for 
the release of prisoners of conscience, for fair 
tnal for jxjlitical prisoners, and for an end to 
torture and the death penalty. He is speaklng at CMU primarily for the Peace 
Alliance, but anyone is welcome.
I he group meets at the Lutheran UniversltY Center (on Forbes) on the second Mon
day of each month, according to group 
nu mber and CMU freshman Karen Parker.
Although the meetings are held here,
Amnesty International is sec ular.
Parker says that if enough people from
photo by Alice Alfonsi
By E. MACLAY GEARHEART
Special for The Tartan
The CMU Investment Group, on 
November 1|), voted to purchase 10 shares of 
AT&T common stock. Part of the motivation behind the decision was to take part in 
the growing emphasis in rapid communi
cation. AT&T is the leader in this industry. 
* In January 1984, eight companies will 
replace AT&T, seven regional operating 
companies, and the parent company which 
will be known as AT&T. The regional com
panies will provide local and mobile service, 
publish the yellow pages, sell, rent, and ser
vice customer equipment. AT&T will retain 
the long-distance service, Western Electric, 
and Bell Labs.
The present shareholders will receive one 
share in each regional company for every ten 
shares of AT&T now held. Fractional shares 
in the regional companies will be redeemed
for cash. Current owners of at least ten 
shares will have an opportunity to consoli
date shares, exchanging them among the 
regional companies.
The Investment Group fel t tha t the break
up was an attractive opportunity for tech
nological advancement in an unregulated 
environment. Also, the dividend yield of 
8.6% plus the potential growth opportunity 
led the group to believe that AT&T has very 
little down-side risk.
On November 14, Carol MacPhail, a 1976 
CMU graduate and a tax consultant from 
Deloitte, Haskins & Sells, spoke to the group 
about tax planning for investors. Her pres
entation covered various tax reduction 
strategies, such as deferral and avoidance, 
and other tax-advantaged investments. Her 
main emphasis was to present the group 
various ways to minimize taxes.
CMUare interested, she will organize a
branch that will meet here. If you miss the 
meeting tonight and are interested in joinH(all Parker at x4943.
'
*
This scene will become all too familiar all too soon; the combination of late night hours and Hunt I jbrarv means one thing* finals.
"Tgflcher of the Week
Weber enjoys "give-take" atmosphere in classroom

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanDecember 6, 1983
Naval Nuclear Field Programs offered
By JEFF HENDRIX
Tartan Staffwriter
So here you are, an intelligent, aspiring 
student of the sciences, but youre not quite 
sure where all of this hard work is going to 
take you upon graduation. More important 
than that, you dont have enough money to 
order that large deluxe pizza that youve 
been craving all afternoon. Granted, while 
these are two equally important matters of 
concern in the greater scheme of things, 
there doesnt appear to be one conclusive 
solution that could satisfy both of these 
dilemmas. Right? Wrong!
The fact of the matter is that if you are a 
junior or above, you can continue to work 
towards your degree while the Navy pays 
you $1,000 a month to do so. That is not to 
mention the $3,000 bonus youd receive for 
joining and the medical and dental benefits 
that are included.
To attain these benefits, you simply agree 
to serve four years in the Navy in one of two 
Nuclear Field Programs. The first program 
is the Nuclear Power Candidate Program 
and is available to men only. According to 
Ensign Michael Parris, the recruiting officer 
at the Naval Reserve Center located on 
Forbes Avenue between Warner Hall and 
the Bureau of Mines, basically what you 
would be doing is maintaining, supervis
ing, and operating nuclear powered propul
sion aboard submarines and surface ships.
The other program is the Nuclear Power 
School Instructor Program, and this is open 
to both men and women. In this program, 
individuals who are selected as instructors 
will teach graduate and undergraduate level 
courses for four years at the Nuclear Power 
School in Orlando, Florida.
There is a demand for high caliber people 
in these programs, but there is a limited
number of opening^V^-Pairis pointed out, 
out of the Pittsburgh area last year, we only 
needed to obtain seven people . . . but we 
want to get as many as possible . . . but 
again, were not just taking anybody.
In fact, individuals entering the programs 
during their junior year must be enrolled in 
a technical major and be maintaining a 3.3 
grade point average or better on a 4.0 scale. 
Seniors, or those about to enter their last year 
of a masters degree program, must have a
3.0 average or better. Each applicant must 
then agree to achieve and maintain a 3.3 
grade point average for his/her remaining 
time in school.
Parris added, What they mainly look at 
when you get to Nuclear school is calculus 
and physics. Thats the common denomina
tor that ties it all together, and he further 
stated, students coming out of here (CMU) 
have a greater chance of being selected. In 
fact Parris completed his masters degree 
here.
Three CMU students currently enlisted in 
die program are Randy Keefer, majoring in 
civil engineering, Tom Dissinger, mechani
cal engineering, and Mike Prescott, chemical 
engineering. When asked why he joined the 
program, Keefer replied, being in the pro
gram would be a plus on my record for 
future employment, whereas coming out of 
college, all you have is your technical degree 
and thats it. Prescott added, I guess I was 
just sort of disillusioned with the type of 
jobs that a lot of B.S. majors got . . . this 
program seems a little more challenging.
For those who might be leery of a commit
ment, Parris said, One of the things that I 
kept in the back of my mind was that even if 
I didnt like it after four years, I still would 
have my degree behind me. As to the future 
employment prospects in the private sector
after having served in the Navy, Parris 
stated, if you take a survey across the board 
of Westinghouse, youll find that there are a 
lot of ex-Navy nuclear personnel there. 
Still, for those who are unsure, there is the 
opportunity to investigate, rather thor
oughly, the options that are available 
before a commitment is made. First of all, if 
you are interested, you submit your trans
cripts to be evaluated. If you pass this stage,
you are then able to tour the ships at the 
Norfolk Naval Ship Yards. There you can 
talk to the officers and get a better idea of 
what all is involved. According to Parris 
up to that point, there is no commitment. 
So, think it over the next time youre 
counting pennies for that large pizza or a big 
night on the town. It could be that youll 
start humming Anchors aweigh, my boy 
anchors aweigh ...
UST offers Spring Fling
Each year, college students take part in an 
annual springtime ritual when they 
migrate, en masse, to the sunny beaches of 
Daytona Beach, Florida.
This year, 10 lucky students will be spend
ing one full week in Daytona Beach, free of 
charge, all expenses paid; compliments of 
United States Tobacco Company, manufac
turer of Copenhagen, Skoal, and Skoal 
Bandits.
In an effort to bolster the awareness of its 
newest product, Skoal Bandits, U.S. 
Tobacco has put together the Skoal Ban
dits Spring Fling in Daytona Beach Sweep
stakes. Anyone 18 years or older can enter 
this sweepstakes by simply stopping by their 
college bookstore or local retail oudet, and 
filling out an entry blank (no purchase 
necessary).
U.S. Tobacco has long been involved 
with college related activities such as skiing, 
the N.I.R.A. rodeo, and intramural athlet
ics. In addition U.ST. has participated in 
countless grass roots activities on college 
campuses all across the country. Sports 
celebrities such as Walt Garrison, Shep 
Messing, Joe Klecko, and Lawrence Taylor 
make several appearances on college cam
puses each year, as spokesmen for U.S. 
Tobacco. A sweepstakes of this magnitude, 
though, geared directly to college students is 
a definite first for U.S.T.
Other prizes offered, in addition to the 10 
free trips to Daytona Beach, are: Two Skoal 
Bandit windsurfers, two home computer 
systems, 100 Skoal Bandit racing jackets, 
and 1,000 Skoal Bandit t-shirts.
'Teaching 
is a people 
business"
continued from page 9
Teaching, according to Weber, is a peo
ple business. He thrives on exciting class 
discussion where new ideas are addressed; 
when he sees a students progression in 
resolving a struggle; when the interaction 
between student and teacher acts as a jelling 
catalyst.
Hes always up, always happy, receptive 
to input, says sophomore Robin Rosen, 
He doesnt just talk to us, he talks with us.
SHgU3yON3 CU77iC
ewQO
'aaeijs
Wednesday ,
/ ' Dec 7 /
/ Dinner y 
4-30/ 700pm % J
UNIVERSITY
DINING
SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Albums as gifts, new 
releases evaluated
Amer the Eccentric will appear at the Pittsburgh Public Theater from December 13 through 
December 18 for eight performances. For ticket information call 321-9800.
MacLaine changes image in
n
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Sports Editor
In the past year there have been two 
movies that have really caught the attention 
of the public  Trading Places and 
Gandhi. One movie received notice because 
it portrayed a matter of great 
. social significance while the 
other simply kept the audience 
in a state of continuous laughBv VINCE GUINTO
lartan Contributing Editor 
The Pittsburgh Lab Theatre is currently 
showing Athol Fugards A Lesson From 
Aloes. The play, starring Barbara Holmes, 
Leland Gantt, and the ever-present Bingo 
OMalley, is an interesting, if 
somewhat hard to follow, study 
' of human reaction to political 
struggle.
The play takes place in a small town in 
South Africa in the 1960s. Piet and Gladys 
Bezuidenhout (OMalley and Holmes 
respectively) are awaiting the arrival of their 
dinner guests, Steve Daniels (Gantt), a 
coloured recently released from prison for 
Political crimes, and his family. The occa
sion is going to be a special one; for a variety 
f reasons, the Bezuidenhouts have not been 
visited or even spoken to by any of their 
former friends for the last six months. In the 
meantime, the conversation turns around 
politics, Gladys diary, and Piets fascina
tion with aloes, a hardy veldt plant. Eventu
al Steve arrives without his familiy, and 
*** conversation topics repeat themselves.
ter. Movies of these kind come along only 
about once a year. However, once in a 
decade, a movie appears that can have you 
laughing through your tears. Terms of 
Endearment is just such a film.
For years Shirley MacLaine has been able 
to rely upon her talent for arousing a mature 
male public. Not that she has ever been into 
pom, but she has been type-cast throughout 
her career. Now that MacLaine is seemingly
with variations.
The play consists of revelation after reve
lation, on Piets first meeting with Steve 
during a protest, on Steves recent arrest and 
treatment by the police, on Steve and Piets 
friendship, on Gladys mental condition, 
etc. From the very beginning, one can tell 
that all is not what it may seem, and 
throughout the play bits and pieces of the 
way things really are come to the surface.
Aloes touches on a number of political 
and social issues: the state of blacks and 
coloreds in South Africa, the situation of a 
white man caught up in their struggle for 
equality, cruel treatment at the hands of the 
Special Branch (some sort of secret police). 
Fugard has managed to treat these subjects 
with a grim reality without letting his mes
sage overwhelm the human drama going Thr 
simultaneously.
The political issues themselves play a key 
role, but are still secondary in importance to 
their effects on individuals and their rela
tionships. Suspected as an informant, Piet is 
ostracized by his former comrades in the
ws pspft 24
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Staffivriter
Well, the holiday season is upon us again, 
and again the question of the right gift 
arises. Most people would tend to think of a 
good gift as being one which its owner 
could use and enjoy for a long/
time. Well, what could better 
satisfy these characteristics than 
a record album? Nothing, really, 
but the main problem, with that is there are 
so many new ones to choose from. Here, 
then are a few suggestions from the new 
album racks . . .
First, there is Undercover by the Rolling 
Stones. Whenever rock and roll legends 
release a new album, it is one which has got 
to find its way into every collection; when 
the album is as outstanding as Undercover, 
this is doubly so.
Undercover presents some new views into 
the private lives of the Glimmer Twins, 
et.al. Just by studying the song titles, one 
gets an impression of several sadistic little 
people writing about their sexual and social 
fantasies. But digging deeper presents a pic
ture of normal, emotional individuals.
Tie You Up (The Pain of Love) is a 
prime example. Sure, the title has ilicit con
notations. Sure, its filled with the tradi
tional Jagger screams and sexual comments, 
but the song is really commenting on the 
need for love: mental as well as physical.
Too Much Blood depicts a bored man 
who wants to dance, sing, [and] bust up 
everything. But it is also an example of 
Jaggers sense of humor, as he tells several 
very' funny (however strange) little tales.
Keith Richard has his moment in the 
spotlight in Wanna Hold You, which is
Endearment"
too old to project the same kind of appeal, 
we find out that she is a dynamic actress. Yet, 
even after an hour as a frigid old grand
mother, the same old classic allure shines 
through.
As the film opens, MacLaine is an inse
cure, hilariously prim mother. She plays the 
role reversal of a mother taking refuge in her 
daughters bed perfectly.
\Vhen her daughter marries, despite 
MacLaines boycott of the wedding, grandmom Shirley decides that a little male com
panionship with the middle aged, swinging 
ex-astronaut from next door might not be 
such a bad idea. The audience observes a 
metamorphosis of a fifty-plus aged woman 
who finally discovers her sexuality.
If this isnt enough, MacLaines character 
undergoes yet another change at the end 
when her grandchildren need her.
MacLaines performance does not, how
ever, overshadow daughter Debra Winger, 
who played the girlfriend in An Officer and 
a Gentleman. Winger also grows through
out the movie. We see Winger react success
fully to situations ranging from being a 
rebellious newlywed, to a betrayed wife; 
from a friend who listens anxiously to her 
mothers romantic life, to a country girl in a 
New York jet set.
Winger also portrays die most touching 
scene in the movie, rivaled only by the final 
scene in Brians Song. Exactly what the 
scene entails, Ill leave a secret  partly so as 
not to give away the ending and partly 
because I could not do it justice in words. 
Lets just say that when the lights came on at 
the end, instead of the usual building mur
mur of the crowd, there was silence broken 
only by the sobs of the audience.
almost antithetical to the rest of the album. 
Of course, Richards isnt known for his 
singing ability, but Wanna Hold You is 
quite a refreshing break, nonetheless. Some
how, the Stones have let some oldfashioned, love-you-till-I-die tenderness slip 
onto the album.
Other top-notch songs include Feel On 
Baby, a very mellow dub piece, and All 
The Way Down, an exciting song with a 
slight resemblance to Shattered. Under
cover Of The Night , the Stones single 
release and political commentary from the 
album, and She Was Hot , a song in the 
country-like style of Star Star round off 
the list, and are, in fact, the two better cuts 
from Undercover.
The most remarkable thing about Under
cover is that it really doesnt have any bad 
songs. Those not mentioned herein werent 
mentioned simply because they are typical 
Stones rockers; however, they are by no 
means stale.
Undercover is by far the best choice for a 
holiday gift, and if for some reason the recip
ient doesnt care for the music, (s)hell still 
have a good time playing with the stickers 
on the cover.
Next, there is Genesis, by whom else but 
Genesis. Genesis is filled with entertaining, 
enjoyable music.
Probably the most entertaining song is 
Illegal Alien, in which Phil Collins, com
plete with Mexican accent, sings of the prob
lems in getting across the border. When an 
a capella choir of illegal aliens breaks into 
the chorus of Its no fun being an illegal 
alien , it becomes, in fact, quite fun for the 
listener.
Mama is by far the best that Genesis has 
to offer. Collins vocals, drumming, and evil 
laugh make this a truly draining experience 
to listen to.
That s All is the fun" song on the 
album, in which one can almost see the 
band bopping about as they recorded it. Fun 
is followed by despair in Home By The 
Sea , an emotion-filled song about entering 
a ghost-filled house.
Just A Job To Do is also worth men
tioning. It comes from the mind of a detec
tive seeking out a criminal (or is it a 
cheated-on lover seeking out his girl?), with 
the warning, Ive got a name, Ive got a 
number, Im coming after you.
Genesis, like the Stones, also have one real 
tender-romantic song entitled Silver Rain
bow ", which attempts to define for the lis
tener when he is in love and when he isnt. 
Love, in this case, is the land beyond the 
silver rainbow.
Genesis is another album worth your 
silver monev.
continued on page 12
CMU concert 
planned by 
Philharmonic
The Carnegie-Mellon Philharmonic, 
under the direction of Werner Torkanowsky, and the Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity Chorus, directed by Max Peterson, will 
present the traditional music department 
Christmas program at 11:30 a.m., Wednes
day, December 7 in the lobby of the College 
of Fine Arts.
The concert will open with Wagners Pre
lude to Die Meistersinger von Numberg 
and feature the Chorale Finale to Beethov
ens Symphony No. 9 (Ode to Joy). Solo
ists will include Donna Zapola, soprano; 
Carole Levy, mezxo-.^oprano; Richard 
Mikol, baritone; and Gerald Sell, baritone.
Lab shows Fugard's study 
of reaction to politics

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanDecember 6, 1983
Gallery shows paint, clay, glass works
Children star in classic ballet, The Nut
cracker at Heinz Hall during the Christmas 
season.___________________
By KEITH RECKER
Special for The Tartan
Showing at the Forbes Gallery this week 
are Mary Buck, Laura Stool and Kirsti Hiebert. Their exhibit opens with a celebration 
from 7 to 9 p.m. Tuesday, December 6 and 
will run until December 11.
. Mary Bucks exhibit contains
drawings, paintings and 
ceramic work. Much of her rea
son for doing the work she does revolves 
around a reaction against the pessimism 
prevalent in contemporary art. Says Buck, 
There is another side to things. I dont 
mean that the bad around us shouldnt be 
expressed, but to focus only on that side isnt 
right. Enough gloom. Thus, much of her 
work is hopeful. Buck uses simple elements 
and methods as she strives to live up to what 
Matisse said about painting  A painting 
is like a comfortable arm chair.
Bucks Dead Forest brings the viewer a 
tranquil, elegant setting: the long, simple 
forms of branchless tree trunks against a
hill, through which a path winds. The 
colors glow with life, achieving a jewel-like 
resonance. The shapes in the painting are 
highly graphic; each form is taken down to 
complete simplicity.
Laura Stool will show her work in clay  
vessels and bowls, and paintings. Her ves
sels are a combination of intuition and for
mal concerns, of control and spontaneity. 
She strives for a tactile quality in her work, 
often making part of the surface of a built 
piece elementally rocky. Her paintings tend 
to strive for similar effect. The objects por
trayed are usually vase forms, and are full of 
texture, gesture and pattern.
One of Stools clay-paintings, a vase form 
on white ground, is a fine example of her 
work. The earthy colors of the clay used in 
the painting posses body; they stand on the 
ground with solid presence. This presence 
makes the image a physically appealing 
one; you want to touch the painting much
as you want to pick up a richly textured 
object.
Kirsti Hiebert also works in clay, and will 
be showing both ceramic and glass pieces. 
Hiebert work is very gestural, and uses the 
human form as its point of departure. Hie
bert scars the unglazed surfaces of her 
human figures with thumbprints, pocks 
them with pinches and tortures them with 
uncomfortable distortions of the human 
physique. All of this may sound horrible, 
but the small scale of Hiebert creations 
makes them more human than not; some
how' their hand-held smallness brings home 
their humanness more fully than a monu
mental scale could ever do. The viewer looks 
upon the tiny beings with a bit of pity, and 
takes time to notice the elegant curves, the 
fine lines that exist in the body of each fig
ure, right alongside the distortions. Seen en 
masse, these little figures form their own 
ritual world, filled with stilted ritual move
ment and odd ritual laughter.
Latest LPs from Genesis and Adam Ant up for review
continued from page 11
Lastly, theres Strip by Adam Ant. Ants 
career has been one of many changes, and 
this album is no exception. Starting in the 
midst of the punk-era, he soon became the 
Prince (Charming) of the New-Romantic 
movement, followed by the Kind of the 
teeny-boppers. But now, Ant seems to be 
aiming at a more sophisticated crowd.
Tw o of the songs on Strip were produced 
by (and feature on the drums) Phil Collins: 
Strip", and Puss N Boots. Collins pres
ence is easily noticed, and these two songs 
are by far the most impressive on the album. 
Strip deals with the you-show-me yoursif-I-show-you-mine phenomenon, and 
Puss N Boots describes a young country
girl who heads to the city and becomes a very 
desired woman.
Ants aim to the older (at least older than 
15, anyway) crowd is best exemplified in 
Playboy, which is essentially a pick-up 
line spoken over music, but which also has a 
very enjoyable chorus;
What do you wear in bed?
Some headphones on my head.
What do you like to hold?
My breath, she said.
"Baby, Let Me Scream At You seems to 
be in line with Ants previous album and 
teeny-bopper style, but in it, Ant throws in 
an interesting description of the sexual act; 
Get in get on get down get off get up get 
dressed get out.
Worth mentioning are Libertine and 
Amazon, both sung of girls which Ant 
has known. Also, Navel To Neck, 
includes the burundi beat made famous by 
Adam and the Ants,
Essentially, Adam Ant has tried to release 
an album with something for nearly eve
ryone, although being a fan of his in the past 
might help to enjoy the album more. The 
only thing he hasnt changed is his partner,
Marco Pironni, the ox-like guitar player/co
writer who has a strange fascination with 
pink. But this was definitely a good move on 
Ants part, and because of it, an entertaining 
album is now on the shelves, ready to be 
bought for the holidays.
Ho, Ho, Ho, and all that other stuff. Give 
the gift of music (to paraphrase that wonder 
company, K-Tel) to yourself and to your 
friends.
Verdi opera planned
The Pittsburgh Opera, under the general 
direction of Tito Capobianco, presents 
Gueseppe Verdis masterpiece of love, 
betrayed friendship and deadly conspiracy , 
A Masked Ball, on Thursday, December 8 
and Saturday, December 10. The Heinz Hall 
performances, which begin at 8:00 p.m., will 
be sung in Italian.
Mr. Capobianco brings together, in this 
production, the winning combination of
dutch soprano Cristina Deutekom as Ame
lia, Venezuelan tenor Ruben Dominguez as 
her ill-fated lover, Ricardo, stage director 
David Morelock, and conductor Anton Cop
pola.
Tickets are $25, $24, $19, $13, $10, and $8. 
Family Circle and the Dress Circle are sold 
out. Tickets are available through the Heinz 
Hall box office, or by calling TICKET - 
CHARGE at 392-4900 (Visa/MasterCard 
accepted).The Allegheny Repertory Theatre is now presenting March of the Falsettos at the Famous 
Rider Cultural Center in Oakland through December 10.
s
m.( DISCOUNT COUPON,
SAVE $77,90000*
Bring This Coupon to Sales Office for Best Condo Offer in Oakland.
SAYBROOK COURT
Building a New Oakland Success!
If you love Oakland and the-'medical, educational, cutu 
ral and civic life it offers, youll love Saybrook Court! On 
Craft Ave., (behind the Isalys Plant) you can walk to all 
the exciting things in Pittsburghs cultural center.
Spacious new 1-2-3 Bedroom Condos featuring all the 
lifestyle you expect at less than the cost of rent.
Savings are realized when special 10%% (11.01 APR) 
financing is combined with 3 year tax abatement (no 
real estate tax) and the City of Pittsburghs $6,600 no 
interest grant are combined. Details at office.
Exclusive Marketing Agent REALTY SALES, INC.
LLi A Joint Venture of Oakland Planning & Dev. Corp. and Cranshaw Construction Inc. 
***** Model Open Mon Sat 10-5, Sun 12-5, 681 9956 or 681 9961
TYPICAL TERMS (minimum down)
2 Bed1 Bed
Price$58,500$28,3005% Down2,9251,415Less City Grant6,6000
Mortgage Amt.48,92526,885Monthly Mort. Payment*452.76248.00Taxes & Condo61.0031 00
Total Monthly513.76279.00
*11 01 Annual Percentage Rate
HBY! LOOKI WE HAVE...
--------THE FRESHEST PRODUCE
-------THE BEST POULTRY
--THE LEAST EXPENSIVE 
HERBS AND SPICES
eAsretfD PGDD co-op
5474 PENN AVE. 361-3598 
MON-FRI 10 AM -8PM 
SAT 10 AM-6PM 
SUN 12 PM-4 PM
allegheny
reproductive
health
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107.

---------------------------------------------------

By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staffivriter
The Camegie-Mellon Big Heart Bas
ketball Tournament was a great success for 
the Western Pennsylvania Heart Associa
tion but not for the Tartans. The Buffalo 
State Bengals defeated the Oberlin Yeoman 
in the final game of the two day tourney, 
65-60, while the Tartans were soundly 
defeated in both their contests.
The second half of Fridays doubleheader 
featured the Tartans and the Yeoman of 
Oberlin. The Tartans shot a miserable 39% 
in the first half and were lucky to be trailing 
by only three points at halfdme, 33-30. We 
came back after a pretty poor ten minutes to 
finish strong at the end of the half, said 
Larry Anderson, in his first home game as 
head coach of the Tartans.
After intermission, junior guard Greg 
Gabriel got hot, hitting three straight, and 
the Tartans pulled to within one point of 
the Yeoman. However, that was as close as 
CMU would get, as the Yeoman streaked to 
a 19 point advantage with just under nine 
minutes left in the game. The Tartans made 
a late run, but could get no closer than the 
76-68 final score.
We should have been more patient. You 
cant stick in the game takin 30 footers like 
we did, admitted Anderson. They (Ober
lin) shot real well (60% for the game) and 
rebounded well, and we didnt.
Elliot Beard and Karl Pickott led the Yeo
man with 18 point each. Byron Beard, Elli
ots younger brother, had 16 points and 11 
rebounds.
Senior guard Pete Bennett paced the Tar
tans with 15 points, followed by Gabriels 14 
points. Sophomore center Richard Neff and 
sophomore forward Robert Kukowski hit 
for 13 points each, with Neff contributing a 
game-high 13 rebounds.
The seven oclock game Friday evening
saw Buffalo State soundly defeat Westmins
ter, 70-53. Forwards LeRoy Gettys and 
Derek Sheppard combined for 44 points 
whle tournament most valuable player 
John Groover tore down 15 rebounds and 
recorded three blocked shots. Westminsters 
best effort came from Craig Randall, who 
scored 24 of the Titans 53 points.
It was Randall who was a major cause of 
CMUs downfall in the consolation game 
Saturday. Randall scored 20 points in the 
first half while the Tartans again could only 
connect on 42% of their shots.
Down 50-37 at the half, Anderson said 
they just couldnt get over the hump in 
the second stanza. We looked like the same 
team that was on the floor last night. We 
were unable to get open. We took some bad 
shots. We missed layups and foul shots. We 
werent getting the ball inside.
The final score was 95-72, and this espe
cially upset Gabriel. You cant let the 
opposition score 90 points on your home 
court and expect to win. Our defense was 
pitiful.
Buffalo State and Oberlin met in the tour
nament finale, which was videotaped by 
Home Sports Entertainment, a local cable 
outfit. It was the best game of the 
tournament.
In the first half, it was almost dead even in 
every respect. The Yeoman and the Bengals 
both shot 50%, played decent defense, 
rebounded well, and traded baskets.
The intensity of a 36-36 halftime deadlock ^ 
appeared once again in the second half, but 
then John Groover took over. The 6'7" 180- 
pound Bengal from Syracuse, NY, domi
nated the offensive and defensive boards as 
Buffalo State pushed on top by eight points 
early in the half. Elliot Beard kept tilings 
close for Oberlin, but Groovers 16 second 
half tallies gave Buffalo State the five-point 
victory.
After the game, Groover was tired but
happy. Things were kinda rough. We 
worked hard today. It was a nice tourna
ment and I hope we come back again next 
year.
While Groover is looking to next year, the 
Tartans still have this year to contend with. 
The two losses drop their record to 2-2, but
Anderson isnt concerned. Were not gonna 
panic. Were a young team, were learning. 
Once we gel as individuals and gel as a 
team, well be all right. Were just gonna 
come back Wednesday (vs. Muskingum at 
8:00 p.m., in the Skibo gym) and play 
basketball.
by Mike Kriley
Although the Tartans \ >n last weeks Rochester Tip-Off Tourney, practice didnt prepare 
them for the Big Heart Tourney.
Swim team starts out 
with loss
Tartan basketball gets blasted for a good cause
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffivriter
We are rough and we are tough and boy, 
are we smart! With that rousing cheer, the 
CMU swim team started their inaugural 
meet of the season against Westminster Col
lege. The Tartans put up a fine effort 
against Westminster, but in the end he 
larger Division II school prevailed by a 63-42 
score.
The home meet did have many high
lights. In the 1000-yard freestyle race, Rob 
Summers showed his excellent endurance 
by winning the race with a time of 11.11.36. 
Summers also came up with a 3rd place 
finish in the 200-yard backstroke. Steve 
Francis also shined with winning perfor
mances in both the 100 and 200 yard freestyle 
with times of 49.10 and 1.50.17.
Mike Fitzgerald swam in three consecu
tive events, winning the 500 yard freestyle 
and the 200 yard breaststroke, and swim
ming the 3rd leg of the 400 yard freestyle 
relay.
Diving for the Tartans was Sophomore 
Jim Siddall, who was participating in his 
first collegiate meet. Siddall was unopposed, 
but did an admirable job of completing his 
required and optional dives.
Coach Donna Pecman was pleased with 
the early season performances. This group 
really works well as a team. I am really 
impressed with their togetherness, stated 
Pecman. They have been working 
extremely hard over the past few weeks, and
by Steve VVinawer
The Tartan Hockey team defeated Slippery Rock University by the score of 7-0 in a game played Sunday afternoon at the Civic Arena. On 
Saturday, the Tartans defeated Bethany College, 8-4._____________________________________________________________________________
I was really surprised that they were able to 
swim so well after such hard training.
Pecman also gave special praise to Patty 
Illig, who took a 3rd place in the 1000 yard 
freestyle, and picked up a valuable point for 
the Tartans.
We were actually quite close to winning 
the meet. A couple of our swimmers 
couldnt be here, and Bruce (Nelson) was 
disqualified in the 200 butterfly. Otherwise, 
we might have been right there.
Both Gina and Patty Illig did well in the 
womens competition. Gina won the 200 
individual medley and took second in the 
100 breaststroke while Patty took second in 
the 200 and 500 yard freestyle. This was the 
teams last meet until after Christmas when 
they will begin to encounter rivals in the 
PAC.
Last Saturday the swim team confronted 
both Duquesne and Frostburg State in a 
double dual meet. The Tartans split the
meet, whipping Duquesne 91-9 and barely 
losing to Frostburg State 55-58. The high
light of the meet was Francis, who not only 
won the 100 and 200 yard freestyle but also 
broke the school and pool record in the 100 
yard freestyle with a time of 48.21 seconds. 
First places were taken by Summers in the 
1000 and 500 yard freestyle, Allan Whitfield 
in the 100 backstroke, Tom Brekovsky in the 
50 freestyle and Fitzgerald in the 100 
breastroke.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

lili

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanDecember 6, 1983
Intramural Report
3-Man Volleyball
gotAshfvoll
Pika has fun and success at Ohio State
By EARL J. BIRDY
Special to the Tartan
As IM football champions this year, the 
Pikes were invited to compete at the Budweiser National Flag Football Champion
ship. They travelled to Ohio State University 
over Thanksgiving to enter the regional 
tournament. Having never played under 
Flag football rules, they did not anticipate 
great success, so they went for the fun. In the 
end, they achieved both
The Pikes negative intuition was right in 
the first game, as they lost, 20-6 to the Uni
versity of Akron, a team that won the tour
nament two years ago. They used the 
evening to modify their offense and defense 
for the new playing style, and to indulge in 
the Buckeye social life.
Saturday morning, they managed to 
crawl out of bed to defeat Delta Community 
College, 26-6, and enter the 50-team elimina
tion tournament.
In the next game, they met a large team 
from Central Michigan University. The no
contact rules placed emphasis on speed and 
quickness, which Pika used effectively as 
they upset Central Michigan, 7-6.
The last game of the day was against a 
quick Olivett college. The Pikes adjusted to 
the option offense and won convincingly 
23-6.
Having won three straight games, the 
Pikes had become one of eight teams in 
contention for the National Champion
ships. Two games separated the Pikes from 
New Orleans.
The quarterfinal was against the TKEs 
from Alma College. Pika entered the game 
with the same energy' they carried from the 
previous day, and held TKE scoreless until 
just before halftime. As the second half 
opened up, TKE adjusted their offense with 
short completions. Pika responded by 
matching every touchdown, and finished 
the game on top, 35-27.
The Pikes resolved to fight back, and 
scored on the first drive of the second half. 
They then regained possession but were 
stymied by two flags at the goal line. They 
again recovered the ball on their own 15 and 
got a first down, but were called back 
because of a penalty. Deep in their own 
territory, Pika suffered a safety, which ended 
their chances of winning and going to New 
Orleans for a shot at the national 
championship.
This victory brought them to the big 
game, against the University of Akron 
again. Pika opened with the kickoff and 
Akron returned the possession for a touch
down. Pika then came back to tie the game 
at 7-7. Akron again went ahead, and scored a 
third time on the last play of the half, as the 
flag slipped through the fingers of three 
defenders.
Wayne Hollock and Jeff Krevlen were 
honored as tournament all stars, and team 
captain Joe Scarri accepted the teams semifi
nalist trophy.
A work of thanks from the team to their 
coach, Keith Block.
Majors (g)WinLoss
Theta XI-A31
Coachs All-Stars2l
Social Decay03UefhnzhJuofhc;
League KWinLoss
ECE-Mitchell40
SUPA3I
Beach Bums22
DU I3
Theta Xi-B' 00
SAE04
League LWinLoss
CIA31
ECE-Schmult31
Pilam-A31
MEMS-A13
Show UPS04
Minors (M)WinLoss
SUPA20
DU II00
Pilam-B00
A DivisionWinLoss
Phi Kap-A50
DTD' 41
ATO02
Harrys Tavern02
Kappa Sig-A02
Phi Jam2
B DivisionWinI-&SS
White DeathiilfilSS0
4 Roselawn Terrace51
Theta Xi23
Counworkso2
MG 3 ' \T03
Phi Kap-B03
by Jon E. Carson
Are college costs killing you? Fight back!
This ingenious new book will tell you how!
Written by a successful student entrepreneur, Making 
College Pay shows you the unlimited potential for making 
money in school.
It is packed with good ideaseverything you need to know 
to start and run your own small business. You dont have 
to be a business expert, just follow the guidelines in the 
book and start fighting back today.A Addison-Wesley
Reading, Massachusetts 01867
Holiday Gift Certificates Available
Walking in Style doesn't have to be expensive. See our collection of fur-lined clogs by Golo. Mia and Olafdaughters, Moccasins by Minnetonka. Boots, Rain/Snow Footwear, casuals and accessories.
I I
THIS YEAR DONT GET CLOGGED DOWN 
WITH YOUR HOLIDA Y SHOPPING.
LET SANTA CLOG 
HELP YOU FILL YOUR GIFT LIST
JUST BRING/THIS AD TO CLOGATHON 
I AND SAVE $5.00 ON ANY PURCHASE OF 
$25.00 OR MORE.
NOT VALID DURING SALES VALID UNTIL DEC 31 1983 c T j
I___________________________________________________________________________
The Best Selection of Clogs 
For Women and Men
124 Oakland Avenue Open Daily 10 00 A M 6 00PM
621-2599 Saturdays 11 00 A M - 6 00 P M

---------------------------------------------------

December 6, 1983The TartanPage 17
yclist quests for Tour de France
MU's Runion has shot at the big time
ric MEDROW
| Jfcrton Sports Editor 
 Everybody dreams at one time or another 
I being a champion athlete. As children, we 
I] watched Lynn Swann make diving grabs 
I the end zone and Nadia Comaneci score a 
Sifeet ten at the Olympics. That night wed 
) to sleep with visions of ourselves on the 
Brallel bars in a far off country or before a 
_ffhree Rivers Super Bowl crowd.
S CMU industrial design senior Brett Runfln has a shot at the dream. Two years ago, 
Hunion was a fourth-string Tartan football , 
^ayer. Now, he is one of the fastest cyclists 
m the country  at least in the top 100 by his 
c|wn estimate.
According to Runion, he is approaching 
crucial make or break stage. This 
immer will determine whether or not RunIn will eventually face the ultimate chalInge in the world of cycling  the Tour de 
ranee.
H However, the trip to France is a long and 
eally grueling one. According to Runin, a tougher sport is nonexistent with the 
ssible exceptions of soccer and swimmg. In his push to prepare for this 
mmer, Runion rides about six hours of 
100 miles four days a week. The other 
ree off days are spent running 15 miles 
d weight lifting  that is when weather 
lows. On rainy days, Runion gets a real
 reak and allows himself the opportunity to
 o his favorite thing. He runs up and 
JBown the stairs of the Cathedral of Learning 
T, many times as he can. So far, he has made
lie round trip up and down a total of 16
I mes. At the same time Runion does all his 
|aining, he also has to watch his weight. 
Just imagine how much harder it would
be to ride uphill with a five pound weight 
on your back, exclaimed Runion.
However, no matter what Runion does, it 
is not likely that he will go to France with
out the help of a sponsor. As of now, Run
ion has to pay for every trip he makes to 
every race, he has to pay for equipment, and 
he has to provide support for himself. If he 
had a sponsor, all those things would be 
taken care of for him. In fact, a sponsor is so 
important to a serious cyclist that if Runion 
cant find a sponsor by the end of this 
summer hell have to bag it (cycling).
To make matters worse, Runion still has 
to contend with the academic pressures that 
every CMU student has to handle. Already, 
Runion will be at CMU for an extra semes
ter in order to make up time lost to cycling.
Runion said, The people you see in 
Sports Illustrated have totally committed 
their lives to the sport that they excel in. You 
just cant do homework after riding for six 
hours.
Most serious cyclists have the advantage 
of taking a month off every spring to attend 
a special training seminar in Texas. Aca
demic pressures make that impossible. Run
ion has an academic committment to his 
parents that most cyclists dont have to deal 
with.
Again, though, the key to success for Run
ion would be a sponsor. Runion believes 
that, The most important thing to me is 
that my parents believe in me. If I had a 
sponsor, they would.
One might think that, even with the shot 
at the big time that Runion has, mavbe the 
costs outweigh the benefits. However, Run
ion is quick to defend his sport. According 
to Runion, cycling is a sport that you can
by John Rogers
Cyclist Brett Runion keeps in shape by running the stairs of the Cathedral of Learning.
right place, at the right time. A lot of what 
determines who wins a race is chance  not 
just skill. I like the excitement of chance in 
cycling.
But its that big moment that every sport 
has that Runion points to as the best part of 
cycling. The challenge of crossing the fin
ish line first  theres just no greater 
feeling.
participate in all your life. It wont damage 
your knees and back as Runion says run
ning, for example, will. Its just not as 
damaging as other sports, Runion said. 
Unless, of course you get hit by a truck. 
Runion also cites the intangible excite
ment that cycling holds over other sports. 
Runion says that cycling involves far more 
than pure athletics. You have to be in the
The Kingdom bythe Sea
A Journey Around Great 
Britain
Paul Theroux
This remarkable look at Britain today 
is Paul Therouxs third book in the 
best-selling tradition of The Great Rail
way Bazaar and The Old Patagonian
Express.
Written in cooly observant prose 
reminiscent of the best British travel 
writing about alien lands, Therouxs 
narrative presents a vivid picture of a 
complex country and her peoples, 
painted with tart irony, humor, sym
pathy, and insight. $16.95
The Anatomy of Power
John Kenneth Galbraith 
Power in its myriad manifestations is 
something everyone takes for granted 
but few think about. This ground
breaking book reveals the fundamen
tal and enduring nature of power by 
looking at both the sources from 
which it springs and the instruments 
with which it is imposed. $15.95
emu bookstoreIN BAKE* HALL
OPRYLAND
AUDITIONS
1984!
Heres your opportunity to become one 
of over 300 young professionals who per
form at Opryland, the only theme park 
anywhere dedicated to the performance 
and enjoyment of American music.
We re looking for dynamic entertainers 
with stage presence, professional experi
ence, and that extra sparkle that tells us 
youre one of the best.
Well be auditioning singers, dancers, 
musicians, and conductors. Were also ac
cepting resumes for technical positions 
and stage managers. Check below for 
specific information. No appointment is 
necessary, and piano accompanist will be 
provided. Good luck!
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Monday, December 12,1983 
12:00-4:00 p.m.
Melodia Performing Arts Center 
634 Penn Avenue
For further information, call between 
10 a.m. and 5 p.m. CST or write: 
Opryland Entertainment Dept.
2802 Opryland Dr., Nashville, TN 37214. 
615-889-6600, ext. 4343.NAStMUE TiNNESStf

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanDecember 6, 1983
It's scary not having you around to talk. Dad
'1
By Orpheus Allison
Dear Dad,
So much has happened since you said 
good bye that day three years ago. I finished 
high school though it proved to be very 
difficult for me to accept my diploma know
ing that you were never going to 
witness it. Somehow, those final 
few months of high school, I 
managed to keep going until I 
graduated. I have never and probably will 
never feel as lonely as I did when I knew that 
I had to find my own way in the world. It 
still is scary, not having you to talk to w7hen I 
am down nor having you to encourage me 
onward to greater things.
My senior year, I did as you had suggested 
so briefly that night in October; taking col
lege courses proved to be the best thing of 
my life. It gave my a way of occupying my 
time and keeping me from feeling lonely. 
While I did not graduate with the honors 
that I had hoped to graduate with, I did 
leave knowing that I had done you proud 
and that I would continue to make you 
proud of me. How hard it was to walk down 
the aisle in the gym knowing that I would 
not see your face beaming with pride as I 
entered into the world of old men and wise 
fools.
I had done my best growing up to under
stand what you had wanted of me. Of the 
few items you had left me, I have retained 
very few-. Still, I have the values that you 
have instilled in me. The values of speaking 
the truth though it hurts; of being honest 
with myself and with those around me; of 
not being afraid to stand up for what is 
right; to search for the truth though there are 
those who would be damned by it; of not 
fearing to step out on the limb though I 
know it to be weak; of never fearing to do 
honor to these ideals; of never having to find
myself a niche in the world. These you have 
left me and will continue doing me well for 
the rest of my life.
I went on to University as you had wanted 
and as myself had wished to do. That we 
disagreed on where I should go in my career 
was only natural. I knew that I would never 
have patience to treat the sick and blessed. It 
is harder now than it was in your youth for a 
man to love a child. The world has become 
so sick as to fear any man touching a child 
even Saint Nicholaus. A country should be 
proud to show the world its children.
My first year of university proved to be a 
disappointment. As you know, the house 
went up to be with you. Perhaps it was best. 
Many native American tribes believe that a 
mans soul does not depart to the hereafter 
until his worldly possessions disappear. 
The others were hard hit by it since they still 
w7ere living there. But, they managed. The 
year itself was not one of my better years. I 
never was a mathematician. Here at the uni
versity, if one does not think in numbers one 
is kicked in the teeth and told to go back to 
his nanny; as he still is illiterate. I think as I 
was taught to think. In living terms and* 
humanistic ideals. As you had taught me to 
think, so too, had you taught me to fight 
back against this tyranny. Its a long road 
ahead as we work to bring back the philo
sophy of pure unmechanical thought. I 
think we shall be victorious but the road 
ahead is filled with holes.
Thus ended the first year from home. I 
went to Paris though people around me told 
me I was foolish, that it would be btter to 
stay here and rot in ignorance. Computers 
only see tw o sides of a question. I too left my 
waste in Paris as has all the world at one 
time or another. I lost the garbage of ignor
ance and learned for the first time w hat you 
had learned from your colleague. Life is
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Diplay ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order is two 
column inches. Special rates are available. There is a late submis
sion charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 PM
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for 1-20 words, $4.00 for 21-50 words, 
$8.00 for more than 50 words.
Dealine: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Announcements and Events are free for non-profit organizations. 
We reserve the right to delete or edit any announcement or event.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
For further information; contact Business Manager Karen Tylak. 
Business hours: Monday and Wednesday, 4:00 to 6:00 PM 
Address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh., PA 15213 or Skibo 50 
Phones: 578-2111/2112 
24-Hour answering machine: 578-2113
much harder in a racist world. Even here at 
this Wasp school, I still hear the demands 
for nationalism and racism. Its a pity that 
there is no pure history course to tell the 
students of how such noble ideals have 
caused so much suffering under the eyes of 
the man who is in control. That malevolent 
being in control. When you see him tell him 
I said hello.
Humanity was your salve, you saw the 
good that the Samaritan had given to the 
Jew when his own race sought to deny him. 
You taught me to see and feel for that which 
is unattainable otherwise. You showed me 
what was to be gained at the loss of a 
machine. The world had beat its plowshares 
into swords, into machines of death. You 
were trained to save the humanity that was 
destroyed. You taught me to worship the 
individual and the soul as the true represen
tative of man. I was not to be like my class
mates, relying on the faculties of others to do 
my calculating. I was to stand forth and 
think free of the material world. I still carry' 
that beacon that you left me though the 
darkness of materiality and material reliance 
casts everdeepening shadows over the world 
that I live in.
Men are no longer men, they are numbers 
in a machine being manipulated and adjud
icated by the court of the truth of false value. 
Each sees his existence as being a truth 
value. Yet, none has the substance of life or 
death. Even death has turned its head away 
from these impulses; these spineless electri
cal currents of hatred for thought attempt to 
duplicate what will never be their domain. 
The scope of human thought, the life blood 
of the species. To hell with them, le them be 
damned to listening to their brains click and 
whir to the rhy thm of an electric current. As 
you can see, I still have your cynicism. Even 
now, these beings are attempting to train 
humanity to kill. The most popular game of 
the year is called Frontline. Kill the enemy 
and get to his fort. What value shall I give to 
human life now? I had been taught by you 
that all life was sacred unless it lost the 
ability to think.
This year has been a fair year, nothing 
spectacular. I am still doing what you 
taught me so long ago. Always serve human 
ity to the best of your ability. Be naught the 
one wrho goes and takes the battered corpi 
and attempts to heal them so that they will 
never again seek to play the role of Cain.
I am still getting kicked in the teeth for 
not being able to speak numbers, but the
pain is less. After one removes anothers 
teeth, there is still pain but there is 1^ 
damage.
I see the young men in their first suits 
trying so hard to say that it is for god and 
country they kill their brothers in arms. Yet 
they are so scared. Soon they will be the 
fodder for the machines they design. Their 
phalli shall enter whatever aperture is avail
able, making one where there is none. They 
shall die in an orgasmic moment, victims to 
their leaders lust. I shall have to write about 
how each died for his love of country and 
machine. I shall again tell a mother that her 
son has died, that he died nobly and with 
honor. I shall give her a flag so that she mav 
blow her nose and spit in Uncless face. You 
taught me to see this and to try my best to 
prevent it. No longer can I save what 
humanity needs. Soon there will be a purge 
as the body attempts to clean out this 
foulness.
Dad, what more can I say, things have 
changed so quickly since you left that night 
three years ago. Hours after I entered my 
seventeenth year, you said goodbye. How I 
miss you. Please take care. It shall soon be 
time for you to return. The spring always 
comes to the home. The trees will sing and 
the bass will jump. Gabriel you will not be, 
Horace you shall be, to stand up and do 
pride to the name.
Until we meet again, thanks Dad.
Love,
Orpheus
Orpheus Allison is a sophomore in HirSS 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
"Jubilate Deo" 
plays Music Hall
One flugelhorn, two baritones, twoj 
euphoniums, three trombones, three French; 
horns, four tubas, ten comets, two percus l 
sionists and the voices of the Bach Choir | 
The River City Brass Band (RCBB) presents! 
their Christmas concert! Once again, the 
Bach Choir joins the RCBB in what is I 
becoming a Pittsburgh holiday tradition^ 
This years Christmas concert is entitle 
Jubilate Deo.
Join in the spirit of Pittsburghs newest ] 
holiday tradition: a Christmas concert with 
the River City Brass Band and the Bach 
Choir. One performance only, Sunday, 
December 11 at 8 p.m. in Carnegie Music 
Hall, Oakland. For ticket information, call: ; 
322-6821.
*
TheRECORD
RECYCLER
421-2835
ywX Cwllon EouJ wn
RECORDS
Bought/Sold/Traded
(We Buy Collections)
We also carry a selection of imports, jazz, and "new 
wave LPs, and Blank Tape
5824 Forbes Avenue 
(downstairs)
esteisJownsonS
WHERE DO YOU 
SEND VISITORS?
Howard Johnson's Motor Lodge in Oakland 
"Weve Changed" 
SEEING IS BEUEVINQI
STOP IN AN0 VISIT OR CALL WE'D LOVE TO SHOW YOU AROUND
m-fioo
MM SM. of mm Jf 1S313

---------------------------------------------------

December 6, 1983The TartanPage 19
CMU has "big heart
Heart Association.
Banner conveys these same feelings. 
Because the Heart Association has been my 
charity for several years it is with pleasure 
that I have the opportunity to organize this 
basketball tournament for its benefit.
The idea of an invitational tourney here 
at CMU came to Banner last spring. Krayvo 
explains, Jim approached me with the idea 
back in May or June. We wanted a tourna
ment that would be like the tournament Pitt 
holds around Christmas.
The Heart Association organizes a range 
of fundraising activities each year, these 
include Lollipop Days, dance-a-thons, 
jump rope-a-thons, and activities with the 
fraternities and the sororities. Its up to 
what the student body wants, said Krayvo.
Krayvo even modified the Heart Associa
tion slogan for the weekend. Were fight
ing for your life and were happy to have 
CMU join the fight.
M report
I By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffwritrr
j Soccer finals have begun. In the IntermeHiate finals, ATO Tide defeated the Nasty 
kjads, 3-0 as Rob Fleischman, Jeff Bergman 
Lnd Mariso Tavema each scored once and 
Qiris Lewis gained his first shutout. The 
kiajor and Minor finals were held this past 
Lveekend, as were the 3-person Volleyball.
I In upcoming sports, Basketball rosters 
lor Majors, Intermediates, Minors and 
kvomen are due Jan 12., the first Thursday 
hf the spring semester. Teams are urged to 
bet together now, before the winter break. A 
rules clinic will be held early next semester. 
The same due date holds for wrestling.
I AlleghenyWomens Center
an out patient 
| medical clinic offering
abortionfree pregnancy tests personal counseling birth control servlet's gynecological care Morning Alter Treatment
by George Spofford
The CMU girls basketball team opened their season Tuesday night with a 64-58 victory 
against Grove City College. Last season Grove City beat the Tartans by 51 points.
3w zstR zwnh ?wn cw zstR lhccr -lwn welM cw lwedB
abortion counseling service iilth u<armlh and dignity Irom peopleirho ca re. 
Medical Center East Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh. PA 15206
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
The IBM Personal Typewriter is 8100 less until December 31.1C)83.
Its a lot of typewriter even at the 
$695 regular price. It has the same 
quality and reliability thats made 
IBM typewriters the most preferred 
typewriters. It has a correction key 
that lifts off mistakes, just like the IBM 
SeleetrkvIII typewriter. Now if that's not 
enough to get you to cam one away, this 
w er price should do it. $>CK>.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanDecember 6, 1983
Students willing to live with dry campuses
By DAVID GAEDE 
CPS Staffwriter
This falls experiments in clamping 
down on student drinking -- experiments 
performed almost simultaneously by a huge 
number of schools now -- have inspired a 
series erf tough new rules on student behav
ior, but an initial check with colleges across 
the country indicates students are willingly 
adapting to their dryer campuses.
We didnt have the beer suckers that 
have always been around before, Mike 
Jewell, a member of the Univeristy of Ken
tuckys Phi Delta Theta house, observes 
gratefully, His house and all the other Ken
tucky fraternities agreed to hold dry rushes 
for the first time ever this fall.
Kent State Univ. 
to build memorial
By TOM JENNINGS
CK Staffwriter
Thirteen years after four of its students 
were killed at the climax erf the anti-war 
movement, and after 13 years erf almost unre
lieved confrontation between students and 
administrators over how to remember the 
tragedy, Kent State University trustees 
finally voted last week to work with students 
to concoct and build a campus memorial to 
the dead students.
KSUs unwillingness to accede to student 
and faculty requests to build a memoiral 
was arguably the last vestige of the anti-war 
movement of the sixties and early seventies.
The feelings of ill will have largely dis
appeared, adds Kenneth Calkins, head of 
KSUs Faculty Senate.
The trustees voted to join community 
groups and the May 4th Task Force -- the 
student-faculty group that has led the long 
struggle to memorialize the tragedy -- in a 
committee to find an appropriate physical 
memorial to the slain students.
Bar owners near the University of Okla
homa campus arranged to accomodate a 
crowd erf 5000 students at a rally to protest 
the states new 21-year-old legal drinking 
age law, but ony 150 students showed up.
Dry rushes and parties elsewhere 
unfolded without controversy. I think (the 
fraternities) are finding it brings good 
results, and keeps the people away who only 
come for the free beer anyway, observes 
Jonathan Brant, head of the National Interfratemity Conference.
It also shows that fraternities are some
thing besides beer busts, he adds.
Not all student groups are happy about 
the way schools are going about controlling 
student drinking, however.
Were all for controlling drinking, says 
Bob Bingaman, head of the State Student 
Association in Washington, D. C., which 
coordinates state student activities around 
the nation and also helped Kansas and 
Georgia students ward crff drinking age 
hikes last spring.
But students are responsible enough to 
sensitize themselves without having legisla
tures making decisions for them, he argues.
Both legislators and school administra
tors are making those decisions nevertheless, 
and at an increasing pace over the last year.
Maryland, Oklahoma, Arizona State, Ala
bama, Virginia, St. Bona venture and many 
others have simply banned drinking on at 
least parts of their campuses. Fraternities 
like those at Kentucky and North Dakota 
State voluntarily have begun dry rushes and 
special alcohol-free activities.
At Loyola College of Maryland, students 
must now don special wrist bands to get 
liquor at campus parties. Students caught 
violating the new policy -- by giving a wrist
band to an under-aged drinker, for example
- can be kicked out of student housing.
When the University of Marylands 
under-aged population plummeted from 
only 25 percent of the (student body) to over
EDDY THEATRECHATHAM COLLEGE CAMPUS DECEMBER 9.10. 11 Tickats: $6 00 
(Sunday Only: Students and 
Senior Citizens with ID. $3.50)
Friday & Saturday at 8:00 pm 
Sunday at 2:00 pm 
For Ticket Information:
421-9747
c
GYN 
CHECK-UPS 
ABORTION 
SERVICES
FREE 
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
UJomens Health 
Services 
107 SIXTH ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
(4)2) 562-1900
60 percent this year, we just decided to put 
an end to all drinking on campus, rather 
than try to deal with all the enforcement 
problems, reports Sandy Neverett, the 
assistant resident life director.
Since the majority of students cant 
legally drink anyway, adds Anona Adair of 
the University of Oklahoma, there simply 
cannot be any alcohol on campus.
The crackdown is extending off-campus, 
too.
Town police have been spot checking par
ties at Millersville State College in Pennsyl
vania this fall, hunting for under-aged 
drinkers and enforcing the citys new noise 
law.
Illinois State students now must get permission from town officials 15 days before 
holding any outdoor parties. Then they 
have to have security guards at the parties.
Marguette, Michigan erfficials passed a 
tough new noise and litter ordinance 
designed to control parties on and near the 
Northern Michigan University campus.
Were seeing a real turnaround in the 
way alcohol is being viewed not only by 
administrators; but by students themselves, 
says Gerardo Gonzalez, president of BAC
CHUS, a national group aimed at control
ling student drinking.
More and more schools are integrating 
new policies to limit drinking, and show 
that alcohol doesnt have to be an inhere^ 
part erf college life, he reports.
The control efforts began in earnest on 
many campuses during the 1982-83 aca. 
demic year, and have accelerated since as 
more states raise their legal drinking ages 
and more college towns are emboldined to 
try to control student noise.
Roughly half the states now have drinking ages set at 21, compared to 20 states a 
year ago. Several other 21 states have also 
closed loopholes that allowed 18-year-olds 
to drink wine and beer.
Arizona and Ohio are currently considering raising their legal drinking ages to 21, 
Bingaman says.
Bingaman remains opposed to the laws 
and external controls. "We feel education 
and enforcement of existing laws are the 
answers, not singling out college students as 
being too irresponsible to drink.
Gonzalez, however, contends much of the 
effort to control alcohol abuse and noisy 
campus parties is coming from students 
themselves. I think young people are realiz
ing that we have a problem common to all 
erf us, and that there are things they can do to 
help.
Letter:Is anybody out there?
THE NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING
LSAT/GMAT 
MCAT/SAT
GRE
PREPARATION
COURSES
^COURSES OFFERED
rf NATIONWIDEfor the
JANUARY 28 GMAT w MARCH 3 LSAT
W including
r Cam*gie-Mllon
 Complete in-class and supplemental materials
 Simulated exam conditions  Limited class size
LSAT Classes now forming for I GMAT 40-hr begins 1/7 
COURSES th M*rch 3 El*m COURSES 32-hr begins 1/14
brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering
icnool
For a fri
the LSAT /GMAT exams and the Law School Graduate Business Scl 
admission process, call now(800) 223-2618TOLL FREE r write:The National Center tor Educational Testing 1271 Avc. ot the Americas. Suite 777 New terk, N Y. 10020
Editor.
Hello? Is there anybody out there?
Do you realize only 6% of the CMU popu
lation voted for Senate?
Whats going on? Dont you people care 
at all about anything thats going on? I 
believe that every person does care, but  
being around here, Ive kind of started to 
doubt that. There are lots and lots of fantas
tic organizations out there  go and get 
involved! I dont know of any club that is 
closed to new members. The CMU peace 
alliance and the AFL (Association for life) as 
well as many other organizations are con
stantly striving for new members  why not 
you?
For those of you who havent noticed,
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
there are an infinite number of problems in 
the world. These problems arent going to 
miraculously be solved. Each and every one 
of us has to strive to solve these problems, for 
the good of mankind. No, its not easy to 
solve problems, but it isnt impossible!
If youre interested in doing something, 
find someone else with that same interest 
and go from there. If you havent found 
someone like that, or if you dont know 
where to go from there, or even if youre not 
sure what your interest is, I may, possibly,be 
able to help. Even if I cant help, Id be 
interested in meeting you. Or, if youd rather 
address a bigger audience  you can always 
get in contact with the Peace Alliance (P004 
at CMCCTD), Alpha Phi Omega (x2ll6), 
AFL (Terry Turton at x4826), Amnesty 
International (Niel Galapren at 624-5533), 
World Fedralist Assoc.  Greater Pitts
burgh Campaign for a Nuclear Weapons 
Freeze (281-0254), Bread for the World (655- 
9148)_____
The list is infinite! Being involved in any! 
organization takes as much, or as little timeB 
as you want it to.
Hello? Is there anybody out there?
Karen Parker 
CIA
Mother Johns Pizza
4523 Center Avenue 
621-6755Free Delivery
r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 1j One free quart bottle of Laurel Springs Pop with all orders over $6. | One coupon per order  while they last. ,. |Must acknowledge when placing order to be valid.
.J

---------------------------------------------------

TWENTE UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY, founded in 1964, recognizes ten fields of 
study in technical and social sciences, and has about 4500 students. "Twente is the 
only campus university in the Netherlands and has all the advantages of a large urban 
region in which to live and work, and its amenities belong to the best in the 
Netherlands.
The university and the surrounding cities are sited in a beautiful countryside with plenty 
of greenery. Next to the campus is a small industrial park, a center of activities in the 
fields of electronics, instrument production and precision mechanics.
The Department of Computer Science, has four positions available for full professors. 
The department is engaged in the design and realization of computer systems software 
and hardware. Integration of these two elements is strongly pursued.
The Subdepartment Interface and Protocol and Service 
Systems has a vacancy for a
Full Professor 
of Computer Science,
specialized in Interface.
His/her field will be the interaction of system parts via 
Interface, Protocols and Services, and includes both 
fundamental concepts, such as design discipline 
and formal description techniques, and technical 
concepts, such as applicability and realizability.
: Responsibilities will include:
directing research and teaching 
supervising students and post-graduates
 lecturing in the field of study described above
 participating in the management of the department.
Criteria:
Candidates must:
 hold a degree in Electrical Engineering or 
Computer Science, or be otherwise qualified
 show evidence of distinguished research qualities, 
as in a thesis and/or other publications of 
comparable scientific level
 be demonstrably qualified in the area of formal 
design, as well as in the realization of computer 
networks
 be capable of establishing internal and external 
contacts, eg. in relation to attracting contract 
research
show evidence of teaching effectiveness.
Chairman of the appointment committee is Prof. dr. 
G.A. Blaauw, Technische Hogeschool Twente, Postbus 
217, 7500 AE Enschede, Nederland. Telephone 
053-894492. Vacancy number: 83-062.
The Subdepartment System software and hardware has 
a vacancy for a
Full Professor 
of Computer Science,
specialized in System Software
The subdepartment is concerned with system software, 
which requires knowledge of hardware and the 
interaction of software.
Emphasis is on the methodology of the design of 
integrated systems. Candidates should have ample 
experience (preferably industrial) in the fields of (distri
buted) operating systems, high-level system program
ming languages, their implementation and their use in 
the implementation of portable systems; also they 
should be acquainted with the hardware aspects of an 
implementation.
Responsibilities will include:
 directing the subdepartments research and 
teaching
 supervising students and post-graduates
 lecturing in the above-mentioned fields as well as 
contributing to general programming instruction
 participating in the management of subdepartment 
the department.
Criteria:
Candidates must:
 hold a degree in Electrical Engineering or Computer 
Science or be otherwise qualified
 show evidence of distinguished research qualities, 
as in a thesis and/or other publications of 
comparable scientific level
 show evidence of distinguished performance in the 
controlled design and the realization of complex 
hardware systems
 be capable of establishing internal and external 
contacts eg. in relation to attracting contract research
 show evidence of teaching ability.
Chairman of the appointment committee is Prof. 
dr. G.A. Blaauw, Technische Hogeschool Twente, 
Postbus 217, 7500 AE Enschede, Nederland. Telephone 
053-894492. Vacancy number: 83-060.
The Subdepartment Computer Based Information 
System has a vacancy for a
Full Professor 
of Computer Science,
specialized in Information Systems
The field of study is the methodology and the tech
nology of the design, construction and realization in 
hardware and software of information systems for 
private enterprises and public administration. The 
candidate will be chiefly employed in the area of for
mal descriptions of data structures and data proces
sing, with the emphasis on mathematical methods. The 
development of applications is not an aim in itself, but 
wiM be included as far as it is useful to test the 
methods used.
Responsibilities will Include:
 initiating, stimulating, supervising and evaluating 
research in the above-mentioned field
 preparing introductory as well as advanced closses,
' and supervising laboratory courses
 defining and supervising graduation projects
 participating in the management activities within 
the department
The following points deserve special mention:
 collaboration with other departments teaching cour
ses in computer science, in particular the 
departments of Management Science and Public 
Administration Science
 establishment of contacts with other scientific
, institutions, government institutions, and trade and 
industry, concerning problems related to this field 
of study.
Criteria:
Candidates must: "--."vO../
 hold a degree in Computer Science
have insight in the field of study as a whole, but 
 they must be acquainted in particular with the 
infblogical and datalogical aspects of information 
systems
) be able to apply their knowledge and qualities in the 
realization of projects
 show evidence of qualities in the controlled and 
systematic design, realisation and implementation 
of comprehensive and complex systems of software, 
data files and data bases
< demonstrate that they are familiar with methods, 
tools and procedures used in the design, 
construction, operation and evaluation of 
information systems
 show evidnce of research qualities, as in a thesis 
and/or other publications of the same scientific
; level
 be capable of establishing internal and external
contacts, eg. in relation to attracting contract 
research :  ;
 show evidence of teaching ability
 demonstrate their ability to maintain good relation' ships with a variety of organisations and persons
frtthin and outside the institution.
Chairman of the appointment committee is Prof. dr.
J. v<m der Pboi, technische Hogeschool Twente, 
PdFtbu$ 217, 7500 AE Enschede, Nederland.
Telephone 053*894496. Vacancy number: 83-061.
Twente University 
of Technology and 
Social Science
One of the Subdepartments of the Department of 
Computer Science has a vacancy for a
Full Professor 
of Computer Science,
specialized in Technical Applications.
Tfcie emphasis of the specialization of Technical 
Applications of Computer Science is on the metho
dology of the design of integrated systems.
The vacant position is hardware-oriented: candidates 
must have knowledge of complex hardware systems 
and ample (preferably industrial) experience in one or 
more of the following subjects of technical 
applications of computer science:
o real-time applications
o industrial automation and robotization
o distributed systems and communication
o CAD/CAM and graphic applications
A thorough knowledge of system software is also 
essential.
Responsibilities will include:
 directing research and teaching
 supervising students and post-graduates
 lecturing in the field describet above
 participating in scientific activities on a national 
and international level
 participating in the management activities of the 
department.
Criteria:
Candidates must:
 hold a degree in Electrical Engineering or Computer 
Science, or be otherwise qualified
 show evidence of distinguished research qualities, 
as in a thesis and/or other publications of 
comparable scientific level
 be demonstrably qualified in the controlled design 
and realization of complex hardware systems
 be capable of establishing internal and external 
contacts, eg. in relation to attracting contract research
 show evidence of teaching ability.
Chairman of the appointment committee is Prof.dr.ir. 
A.J.W. Duijvestijn, Technische Hogeschool Twente, 
Postbus 217, 7500 AE Enschede, Nederland.
Telephone 053-894451. Vacancy number: 83-063.
Conditions applicable to all positions:
Salary, according at least to the scale of 
Full Professor A, which ranges from f 6.561,- 
to f 9.283,-monthly, subject to deductions 
(taxes, social security). Immediately on 
entering upon office, the nominees will be 
admitted in the pension fund. Those who 
consider themselves qualified for one of 
these positions, or those who wish to call 
attention to possible candidates, are invited 
to direct themsetves within six weeks after 
publication of this announcement to the 
Dean of the Department, Prof. dr. ir. A.J.W. 
Duijvestijn. Written applications should be 
addressed to the secretary of the appoint
ment advisory committee, TH Twente, post
bus 217, 7500 AE Enschede, Nederland, 
referring to the vacancy number.
Candidates are requested to include in their 
letter of application a curriculum vitae and 
reprints or copies of relevant publications.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanDecember 6, 1983
More letters:
Suzuki was indiscreet, but not malicious
Editor
The last letter I wrote to The,Tartan was 
on the alcohol policy at CMU. I generally 
comment on issues that I hold a strong opin
ion on.
Such is the case and the subject: Mr. 
Suzuki. I realize this issue has been blown 
way out of proportion by all concerned; I'd 
like to bring it back to the basics with some 
realism, common sense, and compassion.
For some unknown reason which still 
mystifies me, the administration, some of 
the faculty, and even some of the student
The days after
body have chosen to make Mr. Suzuki a 
scapegoat.
The reason for a scapegoat defies me: a 
paranoia undefined. Admittedly, he is an 
ideal prospect: 15 years of age, Japanese, 
very' intelligent, shy, unassuming, a bit 
naive, and worst of all, a nice guy. The kid 
probably has never done anything mali
cious, nor has he had use for the word until 
he had to deny being malicious. Maybe 
some of us are jealous of the intellect he 
possesses. For those who have chosen your 
target as Mr. Suzuki. I commend you on 
your choice. Joe McCarthy would have been
proud to know you.
Jeffs existence at CMU has been threa
tened because of a ... wait, the word slipped 
my mind. Oh yes, he made a mistake. To 
remind all of you super-human beings read
ing this letter and scoffing, some of us (I 
most definitely included) make many mis
takes. In Jeffs case, indiscretion is the 
appropriate word. Yet, we are all so hypo
critical that we fail miserably to see it as a 
simple learning experience. How easily we 
all jump on the band wagon to find fault in 
another. We claim to be conscious of 
worldly problems; we are only conscious of
Has Jeff Suzuki learned his lesson?
continued from page 4
everything Phil says and/or does and I have 
erf ten expressed my discontent with some of 
the staff policies. Phil readily listens to ques
tions and complaints and tries to do the best 
he can to make the introductory environ
ment as compromising to the many as 
possible.
However, something else must be under
stood. There are over 800 students using 40 
terminals connected to two computers. This 
system cant support aimless meanderings 
of curious hackers. On several occasions, 
after finding students doing things they are 
not supposed to do, I suggested they 
satisfy their curiosity in a more productive 
manner. The C.S. department has numer
ous openings for programmers in many dif
ferent areas.
The tutor-grader and software staff for the 
introductory courses is comprised almost (if 
not entirely) of undergraduates who have
their own coursework to worry about. They 
do not have time to correct problems caused 
by students who have an uncontrollable 
urge to find problems with the system.
It also happens that most of these 
hackers, as they like to call themselves, are 
usually behind in their coursework. They 
dont complete their coursework and then 
play with the system; they play instead of 
doing their coursework.
The most convincing point is that Jeff 
has directly chosen to disobey official orders. 
After being told he wasnt allowed to even 
enter the intro terminal room, hes been 
found playing around from other users 
accounts. The last such incident of his pres
ence was this past Saturday (11/12) more 
than three weeks after he was told by Dr. 
Miller that he wasnt allowed and two days 
after the UDC board said he wasnt flowed 
in ANY of the University computing 
facilities.
Sorry, Mr. Suzuki and friends, but I can 
hardly stand behind you in light of all this. I 
think youre gonna get whats coming to 
you. Perhaps your friends can learn a lesson 
even if you cant.
R. Sean Keegan 
15-lxx Tutor-Grader
ourselves. Learning is an experience; one 
doesnt learn if one doesnt experience. 
Learning is what CMU is supposed to be all 
about.
People look for a right or wrong: prob. 
lems are never that distinct because we cant 
see all the variables or the ramifications. 
Instead of improving the situation, many 
have taken advantage for their own selfcentered reasons. We are building walls 
around ourselves to keep realities out. The 
truth always hurts.
Before we condemn Mr. Suzuki to the 
sentence of a kangaroo court, let us look into 
our own consaenoes (tor those who own one; 
if not, $9.99 at the CMU bookstore). Just as 
we attack Jeff Suzuki, will we strike down a 
blind man when we are all wearing blind
folds? If I may quote the imcomparable 
Roger Waters (Pink Floyd):
all.
Hey you! Dont tell me theres no hope at 
1.
Together we stand, divided we fall.
Philip E. Castle 
Biology 86
Drugs should be legalized
continued from page &
While it is true that drug pushers use 
disgraceful tactics like giving drugs to 
young children in schoolyards, this is pre
cisely because drugs are illegal. If they were 
legalized, the large black market profits 
would be removed, so the criminal element 
would no longer be interested, which would 
eliminate most if not all of the criminal 
excesses of pushers. The large number of 
crimes committed by drug addicts to pay for
their habits would also be eliminated, since 
they could get their fix inexpensively at 
their friendly comer drugstore.
If individual liberty is to be preserved, the 
only sane course of action is to legalize all 
drugs. The war on drugs has been 
extremely expensive and ineffectual, and 1 
believe there would be nothing but benefits 
for society if that fiasco were to be ended.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in Applied 
Math and, is a columnist for The Tartan.
RACE to 
SRKER HALL...
...and get
CASH
FORBOOKS
December 14 and 1S
CMU Bookstore
SAVE $20. TO $30.
LOWEST GOLD PRICES 
IN OVER TWO YEARS I
HERFF JONES COLLEGE RINGS AT : 
TO ORDER:
Date: Dec- 7th and 8th________Time: 10 a.mr to 4 p.m.
Place: Baker HaH_____________________________________
Deposit required: $__$15 ?
SAVE ON GOLD-SAVE ON GOLD] HERFF SOMESDivision of Carnati on Company

---------------------------------------------------

December 6, 1983The TartanPage 23
neak-peek: Taking a geometric view of the campus
WTVW
ugh the Thistle lens: this hi-tech view is an appropriate introduction to Wean Hall (1); looking out from Warner hall  like birds in a gilded cage.
HouJpy FRiends U.. come on DoiOn to the: 
ffc-CHRJ5TM/6 SALE AT VlpCO-LANP ... 
WHERE KUe HAVE AMERICAS FAVoRlTET VIDEO 
&AME5 UK Missile COMMANDOS", "DEATH WAR", 
Fi&HTER PILOT UvJNcH-SITE " ,11 THE &6-PRop, 
'AUSSli-E BIN60, HEADS up ''goM&S Awy,
tt NUCLEAR INVASION1",0 CAPE ISLAND*
ANP MANy, cont i uedpaggg
...we ILL kanskd ns
"THE DAY AFTER
F0UDUJIH6 THESe ME55A&ES
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Santa may haue 
something 
for you...
Register now in the Bookstore to
UJin FREE Prizes
UJe're giving au/ag: a 10-speed Bicgde,Pleaser II Kodamatic Camera Ladies Digital Quartz Watch and Cash Prizes.
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
(W ASH-CXTT-1LOW-STYLE) HKmB XDRRWIMB DECEMBER 8th
CMU B00R5T0RE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanDecember 6, 1983
Lab's Aloes grim but human
continued from page 11
freedom struggle. Steve decides to flee South 
Africa, not out of despair for his cause, but 
for the sake of his children. As for Gladys, 
she is the one least involved in the political 
issues, and ultimately is revealed as the one 
who was most, and worst, affected by them.
A constant problem with small local 
theater is the inconsistency of casting; all too 
often, a show will have one or two good 
leading actors along with a mediocre-at-best 
supporting cast. Aloes has avoided this pit
fall, perhaps thanks to its small cast, provid
ing a well-balanced trio of actors. OMalk 
can always be depended on to provide an 
excellent performance, and succeeded once j 
again this time. Gantt, a former Pitt student 
handled his role well also.
Once again, the Lab has done a quality I 
production. The fine acting was supported 
with simple but effective sets and lighting.^ 
Lesson From Aloes will be running until 
December 18. If you manage to finish y0Ur 
finals early and want something relaxing to 
do for an evening, this show is definitely 
worth going to see.
W
take care
of our 
own. 
The 
united way
UnlbedWayBingo OMalley and Leland Gantt star with Barbara Holmes in the Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theatres A Lesson From Aloes. The show is running through December 18.
The Most Sophisticated Training Ground For Nuclear Engineering 
Isnt On The Ground.
Its on a Navy ship.
The Navy has 
more than 1,900 
reactor-years of nuclear 
power experience 
more than anyone else 
in America. The Navy 
has the most sophisti
cated nuclear equip
ment in the world. And 
the Navy operates over half of the nuclear 
reactors in America.
With a nuclear program like that, you 
know the Navy ' ;o offers the most compre
hensive and sophisticated nuclear training.
Every officer in the Nuclear Navy 
completes a full year of graduate level 
technical training. Outside the Navy, this 
kind of program would cost you thousands. 
In the Navy, youre paid while you learn.
Then, as a nuclear-trained officer, you 
supervise highly trained personnel in the
operation of the most _____________
advanced nuclear 
propulsion plants 
ever developed. You 
get a level of technical 
and management 
experience unequalled 
anywhere else.
You get important 
responsibilities and you
NAVYOPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
O Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy.
Name_____________
Address.
City____
Age--------
State,
Year in College. 
AMajor/Minor_
tCollege/University. 
______________GPA.
get them fast. Because 
in the Navy, as your 
knowledge grows, so do 
your responsibilities.
Todays Nuclear 
Navy is one of the most 
challenging and reward
ing career choices a 
man can make. And 
that choice can pay off 
while youre still in school. Qualified 
juniors and seniors earn approximately 
$1,000 per month while they finish school.
As a nuclear-trained officer, after 4 
years with regular promotions and pay 
increases, you can be earning as much as 
$40,500. Thats on top of a full benefits pack
age that includes medical and dental care, 
and 30 days vacation earned each year.
As a nuclear-trained officer, you also 
earn a place among this nations most 
qualified and respected professionals. So,
_____________ if youre majoring in
math, engineering or 
the physical sciences, 
send in the coupon. 
Find out more about 
the most sophisti
cated training ground 
for nuclear engineer
ing. Todays Nuclear 
Navy.
W 345
I0N)
(Please Print* 
______Apt #
Last
. Zip_
Phone.I Area CodefBest Time to CallThis is for general recruitment information You do not have to furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy position* for which you qualify
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

OE FRESHMAN
Hi, you ooN'T 
KJtOVi M| OTNoT Now! 
j HftlfA 
FINAL IN
AREN'T 
you
IN MY 
PSYCH. CHS?
You HAVf 
LAST
MONOAY'S 
Notts?
HIS REALLY 
APPENED TO ME
jyrE Sc&>JE. <-ATEN\ Or t+T, rtvtVT -I &R.Aii.Yr^'
iW ^iSOuHPPftooF^arvOY ^aoMYTlll ^
'7iow/v>0
50 ART)6rT, 
Kc>N5veK
4c. \js\
jo,Wr rag 
It &RA*V S1AF 
^/oifl-P Tt*-L VS 
Pq SrtvT \Jp IF
VTHEAfcOS
/
Funries.
PERFECT GlfT
Beautiful Reproduction 
by ARI IMPRINT
Diploma
Licence.
A/ii loo/ik,..
Displayed at 
CMU BOOK STORE
The Written Word II
Newly Revised
A concise secretarial handbook and a 
practical guide to writing, usage, and 
style, this book includes a glossary; 
rules of grammar; a table of forms of 
addresses; and sections on research 
papers, social notes, and business 
letters.
The Word Book II
Newly Revised
A quick reference guide to the spelling 
and division into syllables of more than
40.000 commonly used words, this 
book includes abbreviations; a unique 
sound map for poor spellers; and 
guides to plurals, punctuation, and the 
metric system.
mill l< 4
IN BAKER HALL
by Mark Levine
|The Word Desk 
Set II
|The Word Book II, The Right Word II. 
and the Written Word II in a slipcase.
The Right Word II
Newly Revised
A concise thesaurus, alphabetically 
arranged to enable the user to select 
the best words to express precise 
thoughts or to select alternative words 
t0 add color and variety to
communication.
mPC T? HN.i yxOUaaYou
ME?/
IT QE ON
epa eareofC
By Peter Corless

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
M
classifieds
Typing word processing  Reasonable and pro
fessional. Fast, efficient, excellent results. Theses, 
dissertations, RESUMES. We strictly follow any 
format required. Confidential. Results guaran
teed. Private word processing classes. Only a few 
minutes from campus. Free disk storage, phone: 
836-4923. Answers 24 hours.
Wanted new music drummer to help start 
band. No experience necessary. Must be wil
ling to experiment. Call Pat: 687-6059.
Dianes Secretarial Service. Resumes, academic, 
business and personal ty ping. Pick up and deliv
ery available. 464-1618.
Word Productions  A complete typing word 
processing service (theses, dissertauons, manus
cripts, etc.) also graphics (technical illustrations, 
graphs, flow charts, etc.) Format requirements 
strictly followed. Experienced, reliable, quick. 
Call Cindy 362-0785. Copies and binding 
available.
Convenient-panoramic view V'ours." Luxur
ious 2-BR, 2-B condo, oak planked floors in LR 
8c DR, eat in K., laundry , private balcony , 2 gar
age spaces, pool, sauna, party guest rooms,
124,900. Lois Eisner 683-5800.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Housemate Wanted- 687-4754, one block from 
campus, your own room, furnished, kitchen, 
lots of storage, $220/month, remember, 
PRIME location.
Jacquelines Secretarial Services. Dissertations, 
manuscripts, books. Professional work done 
quickly and accurately. SI page. 372-1376.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the 
U.S. Government1 Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 EXT 3401-A.
Moving, Moving, Moving! Have been moving 
students since 1977. Call Second Mile Light 
Hauling ask for Vince 231-2766.
Artist Part-time! Specialize in graphics for col
lege designs used on athletic apparel and t-shirts.
Call 243-7755.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca
demic, papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.iTyping/Word Processing. Theses, term papers, 
manuscripts, resumes, letters, etc. (APA, MLA, 
and Turabion manuals strongly followed). Spe
cializes in last-minute work. Call our 24-hour 
service 371-3657. N
Automated Words word processing services. Uni
versity papers, technical writing, resumes, quick 
turn-around  STUDENT RATES. 751-3141.
No coincidence: weve been serving Squirrel Hill 
area for 44 years. Minute-Maid Services. For the 
best in maids. 682-3860.
Hempfield Recording. Eight track studio includ
ing state of the art digital signal processing 
equipment creates excellent opportunity at reaso
nable fees. Musicians music students. 864-0786.
Artist Part-time: specialize in graphics for college 
designs used on athletic apparel and t-shirts. Call
243-7755.
Saturday, December 10 at the Upstage, formerly 
known as Upstairs at Mr. Cs, on Forbes Ave. in 
Oakland, Pittsburgh, Pa. (412)681-9777 and Sun
day December 18 at the Cedars Lounge, North 
Hazel St., Youngstown, Ohio. (216) 743-6560.
Seeking housemate in large house within 5 min
utes walking of CMU. Private room and bath, 
off-street parking available. Available Dec. 1 or 
Jan. 1. For more information call 683-2717.
general
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs John 
P. Crecine will have open office houfs for stu
dents between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Wamer Hall, on Monday, December 12, 1983. 
Students who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine 
should telephone his office, 578-2956, to set up an 
appointment. Due to a schedule conflict, Dr. Cre
cine will be unable to hold student hours on 
Monday, December 5.
Anthony N. Penna, Associate H8cSS Dean, will 
have open office hours for students between 2 and 
5 p.m. every' Wednesday . Students who wish to 
meet with Dr. Penna should telephone his office, 
578-2830, to set up an appointment.
Women students who are currently completing 
their junior year and who plan to study abroad in 
the summer between their junior and senior years 
are eligible to apply for the VIRA L. HEINZ 
TRAVEL AWARD. This award provides $2500 
to a woman student at CMU through the Pitts
burgh Foundation as a result of a gift of the late 
Mrs. Vira L. Heinz, who was a trustee emerita. 
Junior women interested in being considered for 
this award should pick up an application form in 
Dean Coxs office, Room 206, Wamer Hall. The 
application includes sections on itinerary, 
budget, course of study and reasons for desiring 
to participate in the program. The deadline for 
submitting completed applications is January
31. Applicants will be requested to be present for 
an interview with the Selection Committee on 
February' 10. The award will be announced 
immediately thereafter.
Applications for the Delta Delta Delta Scholar
ship competition which is open to all full-time 
undergraduate women students, except seniors, 
are available in Dean Coxs office, Wamer Hall 
206. The winner of the local competition is eligi
ble for the $ 1000 national competition. The dead
line for submitting completed application is 
March 1, 1984. PLEASE NOTE: This scholar
ship is not restricted to members of Delta Delta 
Delta, but is open to all full-time undergraduate 
women who will be attending the same school 
during the term of the award.
LA TABLE FRANAISE, French Language 
Table, Tuesdays at noon, Morewood Dining 
Room. Students, faculty, staff welcome. Spon
sored by European Studies and Modem Lan
guage Programs.
DEUTSCHER STAMMTISCH, German Lan
guage Table, Thursdays at noon, Morewood 
Dining Room. Students, faculty, staff welcome. 
Sponsored by European Studies and Modem 
Language Programs.
Traditional and contemporary folk music with 
Malcolm Dalglish and Grey Larsen. Saturday, 
December 10, 1983 at 8 p.m. Synod Hall, 125 
North Craig Street in Oakland. Tickets are $6 
and are available at East End Food Coop, Semple 
Street Food Coop, Irish Design Center, Pitt Box 
Office and CMU Student Union. For more infor
mation call 322-6359.
You are invited to an Informal Bible Discussion 
group that meets on Monday nights at 9, in 
Room 39 Skibo. We are a nondenominational 
group. We look at subjects and situations that 
affect campus life directly from the Bible, accord
ing to Gods Word. Stop by, and feel free to bring 
a friend with you. If you want more information, 
call either 441-0819 or 361 -5632 and ask for John.
The CMU Peace Alliance is holding a talk on
Nuclear Proliferation: Is the Peace Movement 
Ignoring the Problem, on Tuesday, December 6, 
at 7 p.m. in Porter Hall 125B. Dr. Robert Coulam, CMU Social Science Department, will lead 
this discussion on the spread of nuclear weapons 
to additional countries. Also, the next regular 
meeting of the Peace Alliance will be on Wed., 
Dec. 14, at 5 p.m. in Skibo 45.
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is - 
now accepting submissions of poetry, fiction, 
one-act plays, black and white drawings, prints, 
and photography, for its 1984ediuon. All writing 
submissions should include a cover sheet, and 
may be placed at Skibo Information Desk c/o 
Editor, Oakland Review. Art submissions may be 
placed there, or at Room 302,. College of Fine 
Arts. Deadline is February 1,1984. Questions: call 
the Editor, x4466.
Camegie-Mellon Investment Group meets every 
Thursday at 6:30 in Skibo Room 11. All inter
ested people are welcome.
The office of Professor Fougeres has been moved v 
to BH 228D. The students who take Self-Paced 
French, 82-103, will meet now in Margaret Morri
son 408 instead of in Baker Hall 232-F, which is 
in the process of getting demolished and then 
rebuilt for other purposes. Every once in a while 
please also look at the BBoard 82-103, where 
you may find various kinds of announcements, 
warnings, ups, etc., relating to the course.
College Right to Life Essay Contest: We are look
ing for top quality essays (less than 5000 words) 
by college students on the topic The right to life 
as a civil right. Prizes of $100, $75, $50 awarded. . 
Deadline: Feb. 18th, 1984. For more informadon 
contact Right-to-Life Essay Contest, c/o CMU 
Association for Life, Box 11, Baker Hall P. O., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or call Andy Sicree at 
621-2911. Sponsored by the CMU Association for 
Life.
Santahas visited the GMU Artstore
Some of these gifts could be for you
4- Digital quartz watches 
I - 14x 18 Portfolio 
1*23x31 Portfolio 
1 -30x40 Portfolio 
1 -10Speed bike
Come into the Artstore & register 
Drawing December
HAVE VALID
Anne Lyon Haight collection of 
Clement C. Moore's 
"Twas the Night Before Christmas"
A Visit From St. Nicholas
Hunt Library
Fine and Rare Book Room 
Fourth Floor 1:30-4:30 M-F 
Sundays in December 1:00-5:00 
Carnegie-Mellon UniversityDecember 1,1983 - January 13,1984

---------------------------------------------------

December 6, 1983The TartanPage 27
J- S7-aiCMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKW0 40A
ittsburgh art blooms locally & internationally
Heinz Hall Park is one of Renaiassance ITs
Jalbert of WTAE-TV.
The project was designed by Roy Ascott 
of Bath, England in conjunction with 
Electra 1983, an electricity in art exhibi
tion at the Musee dArt Moderne de la Paris.
Ascott has noted that since participants 
may log on at any time the fairy tale will not 
follow a strict story line but will instead be 
full of branching, interweaving develop
ments of plots, statements, asides, specula
tions, dreams, inventions  more of a 
mosaic than a strict narrative, more Joyce 
than La Fontaine.
The project is sponsored by Centre Cul
turel Canadien in Paris, J.P. Sharp Assofirst cultural accomplishments.
ciates and the Musee DArt Modeme de la 
Ville de Paris.
Photo art
The Neighborhood Parades, a new 
photographic work by Lorraine Vullo, will 
be on exhibit at Blatent Image Gallery 
through January 5th.
The Neighborhood Parades is an 
installation of life-size cutout characters 
who march against a background of 
mural-size photographic buildings. Photo
grapher Lorraine Vullo makes the gallery' 
space over into a city street where the charac
ters in her imagined neighborhood parade.
The characters, which number twentyseven including the animals, form a uni
quely happy and exuberant outlook on the 
American way of life, a kind of catalogue of 
American nuance and myth which is at 
times gently satirical, at times sharply comi
cal; but throughout Vullo laughs with her 
characters, not at them.
As a three-dimensional photographic 
installation, The Neighborhood Parades 
requires the spectator to actually become 
part of the exhibit in order to see it: one must 
literally walk among the characters to see 
them, so in a way the people looking at the 
parade become part of the parade itself. The 
vision that Vullo in this fashion extends to 
the viewer, however, is not a burdensome 
one to assume; rather, it is an uplifting, 
affirming, colorful idealized vision of a 
neighborhoods animated celebration.
Lorraine Vullo is one of the founding 
members of Blatent Image Gallery. Her first 
individual show there, "Dress Up Ses, was 
also a life-size cutout figure, who wore six 
different outfits of photo-clothes. Vullo was 
also co-producer of KIDSHOW at Blatent 
Image Gallery, last Decembers highly suc
cessful pohotographic show designed for 
Children.
Blatent Image Gallery' is located one 
block east of Carnegie Institute at 4626 
Forbes Avenue in Oakland. Gallery hours 
are Wednesday through Sunday, 1 to6p.m., 
Saturdays 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. During the 
Christmas holidays the gallery will be closedDecember 23-25, 31 and January 1.
CARTRIDGE 
TRADE-IN SALE
fnputer art
burgh will play The Prince in the 
anetary fairy tale, according to Bruce 
d art professor at Camegie-Mellon
sity.
illaborative story telling project, titled 
lissure du Texte, the fairy tale is a 
lter networking art effort involving 
pants from around the world, 
cities involved and the roles they playi
foa. Quebec, The Beast; Amsterdam, 
lands, Villain; Bristol, England, 
er; Honolulu, Wise Old Man; Paris, 
an; San Francisco, Fool; Sydney, 
ia, Witch; Toronto, Fairy God; Vancouver, British Coluombia, 
is; and Vienna, Sorcerers Apprentice, 
ts in those areas will begin writing 
msmitting the fairy tale Thursday, 
ber 8 and continue through 
23.
Pittsburgh group will begin trans11 a.m. Thursday, December 8 at 
, where the story will be posted
participants include: Breland;
Wilkins of CMUs music depart-_ 
im Kocher, video artist with CMUs 
cs Institute; Henry Pisciotta, Fine 
rarian; CMU students Michelle Wili and Allyson Hunter; Randa ShanH'riter and anesthetist; Bob Wensel, 
rank Coorenti, poet; Willard Van De 
HE artist; Phil Europe, artist; Herbert 
m video artist and teacher; and Nancy
te Doonesbury 
>esk Diary 1984
!. B. Trudeau
\e ?uncf Doonesbury tolheJon h;hnb Ue fRuc hocM-fw-sch ?cW JuonMr Esluf'hn Enu'hkueehn DonnM ynsJhos Roc chzvlhJ o nwscued twllhtfuwe w? fRh vhcf w? Ruc 3seJoM
emu foccKstcre
IN BAKER HALL
Your old worn out abused cartridge is worth $1mBmm towards the purchase of a new Signet cartridge.
Signet  a recognized Leader 
in Hi-tech cartridge design.
I M a m \ 1 1 1 5524 Walnut StreetRoute 8 Richland Mall (Shadyside)
G.bson.a Pennsylvania | I CTE HI I IU1DACT Pittsburgh Pennsylvania412/443-6I60 LIjI cIMIiMu rUDI 412/6818433

---------------------------------------------------

&
S>
a?
<y
mxh
mw&fflpW
%
O y/) 
%
3607 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
Finest in Quality  Homemade sauce 
Fresh dough  made daily 
Huge hoagies  Fresh salads
Only place in the city for strombolies
STROMBOUES
Superb coeJutR voWhJ uecuJh ?nhcR JwsdR 
A Delicious Experience
V
fiF
&
Italian Ham Steak (cheese included)
Meatball Hot Sausage Sweet Sausage Vegetarian (Extras 50C)
Oven Baked Hoagies
Italian
Ham & Cheese
Meat Ball
Hot Sausage
Sweet Sausage
Steak-Cheese (100% Sirloin)
Capicoflo
Cheese
Vegetarian
Extras
Whole
2.75 
3.25 
3.30
3.40
3.40
3.50
3.50 
3.20
2.75 
0.50
Half
1.60
1.70
1.75
1.85
1.85
1.90
1.90
1.75 
1.60 
0.25
Tossed
Antipasto
Salads
(with garlic bread)
Two Types of Great
Authentic Style
Junior 
Small 
Medium 
Large 
Ex. Large 
Single Cut
Cuts 
r 4 
12" 6 
14* 8 
16* 10 
18* 12 
(1)
Extras
.70
.80
.95
1.00
1.10
.20
Price
2.50
3.50
4.50 
5.00
5.50 
0.75
Traditional Thick Sicilian
Small 
Medium 
Ex. Large 
Single Cut

$?
4
9
16
1
Pepperoni 
Mushrooms 
Hot Sausage 
Sweet Sausage 
Green Pepper
.70
1.00
1.80
.20
3.00
5.50
8.60
0.75
Extra Ch 
Ha^ 
Onio. 
Anchovfcl 
Hot Pepp 
Black
If you haven't tried Caesar's, ask someone who has!
1 Free Qt Pepsi with any stromboli
1 Free Qt Pepsi with any small or medium pizza
2 Free Qt Pepsi with any large or x-large pizza
FREE DELIVERY!681-9100

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

dossier deoeraber 6, 1983sun^day night, three a.m.
table of oontents
dossier deoember six ninety
dossier deoember six ninstine
dossier deoember six nlneteen-eighty three
table of oontents
letter for mloheal andrea m, olsheskie page four
lottery kristin fcovacic page five
/ t- . ti - ; '..v. -  . -
island supper inaura far re 11 page six
next door n.s. vecchi page six
thumbing down route nine oaleb oorkery page six
melodrama on fifth ave, patrlck moore page seven
raoe sarah stengle ^age seven
Oatfin, osittiM, squirrels and other nlgfatmajse paul lustiber
page eight through eleven
sunk and dants mark levine page  twelve
ieBigw  
editor gregg bower cover Jamie prnzer
design editors beth bangor Jill gorelick
assistant editor Judith merrlll
flot ion cath9rlne mcoafferty
title page Jill goreliok
page i four, five robin williams
pages six, seven Jamie panzer
pages eight thru eleven Jeff pacioot
poetry terri swartz
flot ion assistant lauren weisberg
poetry assistant william bir
staff neal Johnston lauren schneider

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

4
Letter For Michael
Balancing on earthly pyramids 
our toeprints leave polkadots 
across the valley.
Below,
the water speeds to a pace 
reserved for cities.
Its dusk
when we reach the mill.
There
living in the undertow 
are the warnings.
"Footpath too narrow.
"Careful up there, aome boy
We laugh at how often 
they repeat themselves 
as we strip down 
on warm stone platforms.
Upon a signal 
I run toward the river, 
propelled by each step, 
conscious of my form, 
aware that you are watching.
Come February 
the water's sacred as any 
Sunday in Butler County 
and you will be gone.
Ill stand 
before my walls
in barefeet to recall that current's 
energy then 
run to spring
against the floorboards.
Andrea M. OUheakie

---------------------------------------------------

1234567890$
5
90
Lottery
Mondays my father came in. 
his pocket full
of fortune: five gold-numbered 
green tickets, five dollar draws 
at permanence.
We each had a chance
to count the days down 
until the drawing.
To add the golden digits,
carry with us
their glittering sums.
To spin, from our soft places
in the living room,
our million dollar shopping lists.
Everybody wanted islands.
We'd be generous 
to charity.
Where my father was a boy 
the water was dear and warm 
at the deepest points.
Wed fly there.
Today I make a list
of the hundred shores
we never slept on,
of the thousand pianos, pools,
and good beds
we never put into our attic.
But of the million stars 
rising to the rich 
evening above our house,
I can't count one 
we never heard.
F0m,F
1234
wxyz
Kristin Kovadc
$
/11234567890

---------------------------------------------------

Next Door
I often watch the old men tap their canes 
down my street, dressed in black suits and rimmed hats. 
They usually walk in groups of five; one trails 
behind, falling between his tapping canes,
Down my sidewalk to the temple next door.
I pass their grandsons on my street somedays.
Young men clad in black shoes and long curls, dance 
arm in arm. They laugh and sing their joy songs 
Clapping hands and dancing past me en route 
Down my street to the temple next door.
N.S. Vecchi
Island Supper
An evening over silent supper.
First I tried to see you over the light 
that separated us at the table.  Good,  
I said when you order us the claims .
Then I scrutinized the tablecloth, avoiding your eyes. 
They were too dark and too old tonight.
There were so many stars out tonight 
when I sailed over to meet you for supper.
The ship scanned the dark harbor with a sharp eye;
I wanted to sail back under its warm and trusty light. 
But I stayed. I came to you, closed up like a clam, 
because I knew you would think I was good.
Daughters must sympathize to be good.
Your sons would never have come tonight.
But I came. To watch you--a hermit, a clam.
Living for cigars, newspapers, your supper.
I saw you letting yourself fade under the dim, flickering light, 
for I inherited your discerning eye.
I thought I had something in my eye
and escaped to the restroom. It felt good
to be in bright and friendly light.
We were too close in the darkness tonight. 
Together, having island supper, 
we were inside the shell of a clam.
This island is a clam,
shut up like my irritated eye.
People wander, heads down, from sun-up to supper. 
You say this island life is good 
but it feels black and lifeless tonight-- 
solitude is ugly in this light.
Now, just as the harbor swallowed up the steamers light, 
into your mouth you scoop the last clam.
Slimy guilt boards after me tonight.
I feel it slithering from your eyes, 
crawling up my leg. Youre so good-- 
I want to give it back, that hard-earned supper.
And when I think about supper tonight 
with damp light in my eyes:
 The clams were very good.  
Thumbing down route 9
These tall maples 
in front of my house 
heave like thunderheads 
in damp wind.
Later, from the mountain 
theyre ripe rows of broccoli 
out back
from the kitchen window.
Maura Farrell Caleb Corkery

---------------------------------------------------

Melodrama on 5th Avenue
Man got racked by a bus today 
Threw his old Negro gunny sack 
body on a cigarette butt.
Them watery onyx eyes wrapped round me 
as a stranger died in my arms.
Been laughin' six blocks now--
silly shit, dying and leaving that suffering
face forever inside me.
Patrick Moore
Race
The greyhound ran 
The skin slid over his ribs, 
Like the man I once held 
Breathed when he strained.
I watched from the stand 
Jealous of the rabbit.
Sarah Stengle

---------------------------------------------------

fWv / > / y+*6r*s*-*ESsb
was in the 
the Browne 
 first thought my life was 
ruined. Indian summer had 
already come and gone and 
the crisp reds and golds of 
fall were beginning to 
appear in my neighborhood. 
The trails along the edge 
of the woods where we 
played were already 
specked with a rain-matted
w_______collage of colored leaves.
I always liked fall because 
Walker  s Pond and the woods that 
surrounded it looked like the pic
tures in my father s Outdoor Life 
magazines. I knew the pond was no 
different than it was just a few 
months before except most of the 
green algae was gone and only a few 
bullfrogs poked their heads from 
the shores. Nevertheless, it 
seemed to offer just a few more 
bass and the woods leaf-covered 
floor rustled with hints of bigger 
game. No one had ever seen any
thing much bigger than a pheasant 
there, but around this time of 
year it looked like elk, big 
bucks, might be behind any tree.
&tuVrejgfifth grade at I g ^
School when I * ^
4t was here, on a Saturday, 
that I first saw it. 1 was 
on my way home from fish
ing, not paying too much attention 
to what was going on around me (I 
was still thinking about my new 
Speckled Marvin lure I just lost 
to a soggy log at the bottom of 
Walker  s). I had never seen any
thing like it. When I first heard 
it rustle in the leaves, I thought 
it was a dog. But then I saw it for 
a second before it passed into the 
thatch of sticky burrs. From its 
color it looked like a skunk, but 
there was something about the 
size. Just when I was about to give 
it up for lost, it jumped onto the 
trunk of a fat maple. It was a 
squirrel - but it wasnt a squir
rel. It looked like a squirrel, 
with its small triangle ears and 
bristle tail, but it was wrong. It 
was black; blacker than any black 
cat I had ever seen. Fixed there, 
with its sleek, almost wet looking 
body plastered at an awkward angle 
to the tree, it watched me. I 
didnt move; half because I was 
afraid it would run and half 
because I wasnt too sure what I 
should do. I felt like one of those 
people from the Twilight Zone who 
had just seen a U. F. 0. I knew I had 
to do something. Nobody ever sees 
a U. F. 0. and just walks away. You 
either get captured or you make an 
exciting escape back to town where 
you ask for help from the sheriff 
who never believes you. Somehow I 
knew neither of these were right 
and I promised myself I would
oirvi
handle things differently if I was 
ever in such a situation. I wished 
I had my father  s BB gun. At 
that range I surely could have 
stunned him. I imagined getting my 
picture in the newspaper. I would 
be standing with a wire cage in one 
hand and my gun in the other . 
Underneath it would read, * Mark 
Hampshire, Maine youth, captures 
rare black squirrel never before 
seen by man.   I even imagined 
having my picture put in the Guin
ness Book of World Records right 
next to the shot of the man wrapped 
up in the twenty-nine foot python.
W
ithout taking a step, I 
unhooked my new Spinning 
Gem lure from the cork base 
of my fishing rod. Judging it to be 
as good a shot as I was going to get 
I swung my arm back slowly and let 
loose. The line caught on a small 
twiggy branch and the lure ended 
up wrapped around a lower limb of 
the squirrels tree. It hung down 
just a few inches from his nose, 
dangling back forth and around 
like a hypnotists shiny object. 
The squirrels tail swished about 
a bit and as I remember, his eyes 
began to follow it.  Jump at 
it,   I pleaded in hushed voice.
 Go ahead, its good for you. It 
wont hurt you.   I knew if he was 
anything like the frogs at 
Walker  s Pond I would have him. 
After a few seconds of staring at 
my bait, he jerked his head around 
to look at me. He kept one eye on me 
and one on the Gem. I felt like he 
was saying, * Well if you want it, 
go ahead and take it. I certainly 
dont want it.  I tried jiggling 
the line. My father told me this 
gives a lure the live but 
crippled look. Squirrel didnt 
think this was much more appeal
ing. He shook his tail one more 
time and scaled the tree. After he 
made his way to the thin branches 
near the top, I watched as he 
leaped to a butting branch of the 
neighboring tree. After that, I 
could only hear him as he zigzagged his way from branch to 
branch, trapezing through the 
woods and away from me. I jerked at 
my fish line for a half-hour that 
afternoon trying to get it out of 
the tree, pausing shortly as 
joggers passed me on the trail. I 
tried to make it appear that I was 
looking for bait but one runner 
saw my trouble and told me the 
fishing was better in the pond 
down the path . . . the water was 
deeper there. I thanked him, cut 
my line and went home.
I
 had no idea this was just 
the beginning of my trou
bles until I returned to 
school on Monday. My teacher was 
Miss Clarke. She was a tall lady 
who always wore high-heeled shoes 
which made her look like a giant. 
Her cheeks had rosy red patches of 
make-up that matched her skirts, 
and her perfume could be smelled 
all the way to the back of our 
classroom. Although she was strict 
at times, she was a warm person and 
all but the toughest kids in the 
class liked her. The few that 
didnt would tell stories about 
her and the man she supposedly 
beat over the head with her 
umbrella at a red light in the 
square. Being the way she was, she 
often was the subject of some sort 
of abuse. On rainy days when we had 
indoor recess, she would convert 
the strip of floor between the two 
center rows into a bowling lane. 
From her storage closet in the 
rear of the room she would drag a 
large cardboard box containing an 
illustrated floor mat showing the 
pin placement, ten large duck 
pins, and a marble patterned 
lavender bowling ball which only 
she could lift. Several of her 
favorite students were elected as 
pin boys and Martin Zimmerman kept 
score on the front board while the 
rest of the class cheered her on. I 
dont know if she ever bowled
outside of our classroom but she 
did pretty good as I remember, 
better than my mother and without 
even having numbered shoes. She 
even extended recess once by ten 
minutes because she was bowling 
such a good string; I think she 
soored two fifteen that day. Of 
course she had her bad days. Ru
mors from the class two years ahead 
of us said that one time her 
fingers slipped out of the ball on 
her back swing and the ball flew 
into the blackboard, scattering 
pieces of slate across the room. 
Nobody really knew if this ever 
happened, but I remember onoe when 
she let go of a wild one. It hung 
left and landed at least a yard 
beyond the lob-line on Mark Costells out-turned foot. He let out 
a yelp, grabbing his foot and 
rolling around on the floor. Miss 
Clarke placed her fingers against 
her drawn in cheeks and opened her 
mouth like a hoot owl. She apolo
gized over and over again while 
kissing the top of Marks head 
before she finally sent him up to 
the nurses office. She never fin
ished her string and recess was 
cut short that day.
I
f I had only realized then 
what type of person she 
was, I never would have le't 
myself get into the mess I did. We 
were having lunch that afternoon 
at school whert the trouble started 
up. I was in the back of the room

---------------------------------------------------

9
ting my peanut butter and jelly 
andwich, potato chips, milk and 
-Ho Wafers, talking about the 
quirrel to my best friend, Jimmy 
allandera. We always took what 
ach other said as gospel so as I 
escribed the situation he was 
istening closely, nodding his 
ead in confirmation at the imporant parts and only interrupting 
hen I was taking a bite from my 
andwich. Thats when Louie Gastiino butted in.
Whats this about a black 
squirrel?  he barked, spewing a 
mouth full of Saltines over me and 
-immy.  Youre crazy, * *
I
 normally would have let it 
go, and cont inued my conversation on the way home 
from school, but not that day; I 
was especially mad at him. He beat 
me out of eleven of my favorite 
marbles at recess the Friday 
before, and I hadnt been able to 
win them back. I was even madder 
that I let myself get into the game 
to begin with. Everybody knows 
better than to trade or play mar
bles with Louie. Jimmy once ended 
up trading away his brother  s 
bicycle tire for what Louis said 
was a Jackal  s foot. It turned out 
to be a piece of pine with rabbit 
fur glued on to it.
 Oh yea,   I said.
Yea.
* Oh yea,   I returned, not 
knowing what to say, but not want
ing to be outdone either.
 Yea, what do you mean 
there are black squirrels? There 
aint no such thing. Youre a 
liar. 
  What do you mean there 
are no such thing? How do you know? 
What do you think youre God or 
something?  I added, not realiz
ing this was a good enough reason 
to get punched in the arm.
 What if I am? Whats it 
to you? At least I m not stupid 
enough to go around making up 
stories about black squirrels. 
Youre a liar.  
  Am not.  
  Are too .  
  Am not!  
  0. K. , how do you know 
there are black squirrels? 
 Cause I ve seen them, 
thats how. Right in the woods 
down by Walkers Pond . . . along 
the path.  *
You did not. Youre just 
akin this up not cause you 
know there  s no such thing.  
B
y now half the class 
including Miss Kiddleston, 
the lunch monitor, had 
eard what was going on but I was 
 birred up to oare. The only 
ing worse than being called a 
iar, waa being called a liar by 
e guy who beat you out of half 
your best marbles.
  I am not makin it up,   
yelled, my face turning red.
 Prove it! Who else saw 
ese black squirrels, huh?  
 Well . . . nobody, I 
ai<*, feeling as if I just lost 
ther dozen marbles.
1 ' ^ *la' * t-old you he was a
 be said, declaring his
  r \fr^ to the rest the class.
w he couldn' t prove i t.  
 Oh yea, I can, too, prove
it.  *
 How? You just said no one 
else was there. Youre a double 
1 i ar . You baby!  
  Shut up Louie I am not a 
liar and I can, too, prove it.  
 Oh, how?  he asked, pok
ing me in the chest with his dirty 
finger, as if he knew I hadnt the 
slightest idea of what to say 
next.
Because . . . because . . . 
I ... I caught one . That  s how,   I 
said, wishing I hadnt the moment 
the words came from my mouth. I 
remember wishing at that moment I 
could stop time and turn it back 
just a few seconds. I knew that 
would be my only hope. I wasn  t 
inclined to go around lying like 
that, it just came out. The only 
time I ever lied like that was if 
it was a choice between that and 
death; like when my mother was 
real mad because the bathroom was 
flooded and she thought it was 
because I killed my brothers cat
fish and tried to flush it down the 
toilet. She had already taken a 
full back swing and her hand was 
resting a foot from my face as she 
asked me if I did it. Then, I lied. 
I
 spent the rest of that 
afternoon trying to find a 
way to tell Miss Clark that 
I couldnt bring the squirrel into 
school. I thought of telling her 
that it was sick and I couldnt 
bring it in until it was better. 
That way I figured she would 
forget about it for a while and 
maybe altogether. But, remember
ing what my brother told me, I knew 
this would just prolong the agony, 
like slipping to the end of the 
nurses line whenjgetting a school 
shot. My brother had her the year 
before I did, when yo-yos were 
real popular. Everybody had at 
least one yo-yo they brought to 
school and played with whenever 
the teacher wasnt looking. My 
brother told me when she turned 
her back, a shower of spinning 
discs would tether towards the 
floor, like a bunch of caterpil
lars on spun silk, lowering down 
from the trees above. One time in 
class, my brothers friend, Bob 
McCowski, whipped his yo-yo down 
real hard to get a fast spin on it 
and the string broke. Besides mak
ing a smashing sound as it hit the 
floorboards, my brother, Mike, 
said that with all the spin it had 
on it, it raced to the front of the 
class, where it finally came to 
rest against the side of Miss 
Clarkes shoe. She got all huffy 
about that and demanded that eve
ryone in the class hand over their 
yo-yos and there were only fifteen 
boys in the class (Louie, who also 
had her for his first try at fifth 
grade, stuffed his down his pants
T
he rest of the class was 
staring at me and Miss Kiddlestone had stopped in 
mid-chew, waiting for my next 
move. Just then Miss Clarke came 
in through the back door by where 
we were standing. She was always 
in a good mood and had a fresh 
cloud of perfume following her 
when she returned from lunch.
 Whats going on back 
here, boys? Its twenty-nine past. 
You should be in your seat by 
now.
 Yes Miss Clarke, I 
said, already making the welcomed 
move back to my desk.
 Mark was telling us about 
his black squirrel,   Louie 
squawked. The rest of the class 
snickered anonymously.
 A black squirrel?   she 
questioned, in a surprised but 
believing tone .   What a unique 
but wonderful pet . . . Is he house 
trained like a dog?  
Well, not really.
If that i sn  t the most 
lovely idea I ever heard . . . and 
he  s black besides . When can you 
bring him in to school? How about 
Friday for the Halloween party.
How appropriate,   she added, 
folding her hand at her waist.
* Well, I dont know if 
that would be too good.
I see, its your parents 
youre worried about. Dont let 
that bother you. I certainly 
wouldnt expect you to do this 
without their permission. Ill 
give them a call to see if it would 
be all right.  
'Orno! It will be fine 
with them,   I said, feeling as if 
I just flushed another catfish.
and Miss Clarke didnt catch him). 
Anyway, she held onto those four
teen yo-yos from September until 
Christmas vacation when she 
secretly returned them to each of 
the boys by placing them in their 
stockings at the Christmas party. 
But the amazing thing is, she gave 
the right yo-yo back to each boy, 
not mixing up one. With a memory 
like that, I knew I didnt have a 
chance.
r
knew it was important not 
to waste any time so I ran 
home from school on Tuesday 
afternoon and began the hunt. I 
built the trap out of an over
turned apple crate that was 
propped up on one end with a stick, 
which had a string tied to it. It 
was a simple thing that I had seen 
used on cartoons and other shows 
for years. Every time I saw it used 
it worked fine, so I figured it 
would do the job for me, too. I 
dragged the trap out to the exact 
spot on the trail where I had seen 
him. I was sure I had the right 
spot because I could see my place 
of fishing line still dangling 
from the tree limb. I set it up and 
gathered a handful of chestnuts to 
use as bait. I knew squirrels 
liked chestnuts because the year 
before I collected what seemed 
like hundreds of them from around 
the chestnut tree at the end of our 
street. I spent an afternoon shel
ling them from their spike sharp 
green shells, pricking myself a 
few times and filling a large 
paint bucket with their shiny 
brown nuts. I didn t know then and 
I really dont know to this day why 
I did it. I just kept shelling them 
and filling the bucket until the 
end of the day when they were 
overflowing the top. I guess I 
really didnt have a reason. It 
seemed like back then you didnt 
need a reason to do something; you 
just did it, had fun, and that was 
all there was to it. Anyway, I left 
this bucket in my backykrd all 
fall and through the winter too. 
From my back porch window I would 
look down and watch as squirrels, 
the normal grey type, climbed into 
the bucket, grabbed a few nuts and 
ran. Sometimes there was even a 
waiting line. I enjoyed watching 
them; so did my mother and father. 
They thought it was nice that I was 
helping them find food for the 
winter months. That was until the 
spring, when my father discovered 
the squirrels were burring the 
nuts in our front lawn, his well 
kept lawn. We had at least fifty 
chestnut trees sprouting that 
' April. I put a lid on the bucket 
and spent a Saturday morning care
fully pulling out each of the 
young sprouts.
W
ith a good six or seven 
nuts spaced evenly under my 
trap, I waited about forty
h
lot
I feet away behind a big elm, with
I the string in my hand. It was a lo1
nightimreg.
y the end of the day I had 
considered every possible 
way out of my mess, includ
ing never going back to school, 
end came to the conclusion that I 
had to catch the squirrel. Think
ing back, this now seems kind of 
dumb and I can think of a dozen 
better ways to have saved myself.
I really dont know why I came to 
this conclusion; I can only guess 
it had something to do with watch
ing *  Father Knows Best.  ' On the 
other hand, I knew the squirrel 
did exist: I had seen it. Since it 
did exist, how hard could it be to 
catch? People caught squirrels and 
rabbits and skunks in those woods 
all the time and I had three days 
to do it.
by- Paul LuSttber
like fishing except for when 
nothing was happening. At least 
with fishing when you were bored 
you could convince yourself that 
the last wave that dunked your 
bobber was actually a bite, or you 
could imagine the fish were cir
cling around your bait, waiting 
until you went off into the woods 
to pee before they would bite* Or, 
if things were really bad you 
could pull your line in to see if 
your worm was too soggy to bite or 
gone altogether or you oould go 
and oatch bullfrogs or even eat 
your lunch. With squirrel fishing, 
you knew when nothing was going on 
and nothing did go on for the rest 
of that day. I just sat behind that 
elm staring at the orate and get
ting the seat of my pants wet from 
the damp earth. The more I looked 
at it the more I thought it was a 
bad idea. I tried to imagine that I 
was a squirrel and see if I would 
go into it. Crouohing down low on 
all fours, I peered at it. The

---------------------------------------------------

10
first thing I notice is the 
string: It is white. I dont often 
see white in my forest home unless 
mam has put it here. Is this man? 
What are these funny symbols on 
the side of the slanting house,. I 
wondered, eyeing the McNally Apple 
Farm stamp. These are man symbols 
like I see by the hard black 
ground. This is man.
B
y the end of the afternoon 
I decided this approach was 
all wrong. Not a single 
squirrel, even grey, came near it. 
About a half-hour before I gave up 
a chipmunk scooted through my trap 
but he was going so fast I didnt 
even have time to think about 
pulling the string. As it got 
darker, my eyes got red from star
ing and I was getting hungry. I 
knew my mother would be making 
something good for dinner ; some
thing that would make me feel warm 
and safe and let me sleep easy that 
night. I went home .
T
hat evening I dug out some 
of my father s Field and 
Stream magazines. trying 
to get some better ideas for a 
trap. They always had a bunch of 
ads: slingshots, pistols, lock 
pick tools, blowguns, buttonmaking kits, buck knives and 
switchblade combs were common to 
every issue. Once Jimmy Callandera 
sent away for one of those blow
guns with his birthday money. The 
ad showed a picture of a tall 
native hunter with no shirt and a 
feathered headdress, holding a 
hare by its haunches. I only got to 
see it once when it came; we were 
over his house, in the cellar. It 
was a foot and a half long and came 
with ten small steel-tipped darts, 
a bag full of plastic practice 
ammo and a pamphlet on how the 
Indian tribes extract curare. We 
were shooting the darts into a 
cardboard box on the top of his 
ping-pong table. After a while 
Jimmy got pretty good at it and 
started practicing his quick 
draws: * * for when the big one 
sneaks up on you.   Well, he let 
one slip and caught his little 
brother in the thigh. I never 
heard anybody scream as loud as he 
did. Jimmy put his hand over his 
brother  s mouth while I held him.
' Dont tell mom,   Jimmy pleaded. 
Im sorry. Please don  t tell mom. 
I didnt mean it, Tiger . . . Here, 
take a shot.   He yelled louder 
and I got scared, thinking what 
would happen if his mother came 
down, so I went home. The next day, 
Jimmy said his brother told his 
parents what happened at supper 
that night. Jimmy got smacked and 
his father broke the blowguns 
over his knee and chucked it out.
A
fter looking for a while, I 
found some ads for steel 
traps that were guaranteed 
to catch squirrels and other 
unwanted pests. The best part was 
they said you could use ordinary 
peanut butter for bait and I 
remembered where I had seen one 
Just like it. Across the road from 
where the woods began, there was a 
farm with a cornfield and a sheep 
pen. It was a big piece of land, 
partly owned by the state, and the 
whole thing was tended by the 
Smiths. Nobody really knew much
MV-iHrettraspSi-uPabout them. They lived in a one 
floor, beige-colored house next to 
the sheep pen. There was only 
three of them: Mr. Smith, Mrs. 
Smith and their son Shane. Shane 
was three years older than I was 
and went to my school for a couple 
of years while I was there, so I 
knew what he looked like. The only 
time I ever saw him outside of 
school was if I was playing on 
their land. Once Jimmy and I were 
cutting through by their house. 
Shane saw us and called us over to 
ask us what we were doing. Thats 
when I saw the traps. There were 
five or six of them stacked up on 
the porch. When we said we were 
just cutting through, he kicked 
some gravel with the side of his 
foot and nodded his head slowly in 
approval. We talked for a while 
and he told us the best place to go 
fishing in Walkers pond. He also 
told us where it was best hunting 
too. He said it was illegal to go 
hunting there and he didnt do it 
too often because he was, * Afraid 
the pigs were gonna get him.   He 
said he was afraid of them. I 
remember not understanding how a 
farm boy could be afraid of pigs 
though I m glad I never asked him.
ednesday after school I 
decided I would get one of 
the Smiths traps. I knew 
Shane would still be in school for 
a few hours after I got out, so 
that just left his parents to 
worry about. I snuck out to their 
place, walking in the shallow line 
of trees which surrounded the 
cornfield. Before I reached the 
house, I saw Mr. Smith working 
with his tracker out in the field, 
turning the fallen stalks back 
into the soil. I was glad he wasnt 
by the house. Everyone had heard 
stories about the farmer and his 
rock salt gun. In mid-summer, when 
the corn was tall, wed play in the 
field, trampling the stalks and 
fighting with the ears of corn. 
Everyone would run like hell when 
someone yelled  farmer,   and we' 
saw his station wagon pull up to 
the edge of the field. We knew that 
he had his gun and if he saw you he 
would take a shot. Shane himself 
told us he had his butt filled with 
rock salt once for playing in the 
field and it stung for days. If he 
would shoot his own son, he 
wouldnt think twice about hitting 
one of us, we figured.
I
 made a dash from the edge 
of the trees to the sheep 
pen and dove down flat on 
my stomach. I could see the porch 
from here. Sure enough the traps 
were still there; a lot more rusty 
than I remembered them to be, but 
traps just the saune. They were on 
the far end of the porch, behind 
the railing, stacked up like old 
lobster traps. I was sure no one 
would miss it if I made off with 
one. I got myself into a running 
position and waited. My back leg, 
the one I was going to use to push 
off with, started shadcing, bounc
ing up and down. I put my hand on it 
and made it stop.  Go, damn it,  
I yelled at myself, but I couldnt 
move . I looked behind me and could 
see Mr. Smiths tracker coming 
over the rise in the field towards 
the house. I didnt know what to 
do, then I broke towards the
house. I guess I tricked myself 
into doing it, like jumping off 
the high ledge into the pond. I 
would stand for a while on the 
ledge, learning forward, trying to 
jump but always stopping. Finally,
* what Id do is think about some
thing else for a second and before 
I could do amything about it I 
would leap into the water. It 
worked every time.I
 almost wished it didnt 
work this time. When I was 
halfway to the house, I 
wanted to turn back but I knew the 
farmer was coming at me from 
behind, so I kept going for the
- porch. The railing was kind of 
tall, just a little shorter than 
myself, but it was raised up a few 
step heights. When I reached it, I 
jumped up without stopping and 
mauiaged to get my upper body over 
the top. I hung there for what 
seemed like hours, bent over the 
crossbeam like a big L, the edge 
digging into my groin. I did 
finally get over and I grabbed a 
trap from the top. Just then I 
heard Mr . Smith from behind me :
 Hey, boy. What do you think 
youre doing up there? Put that 
back . . . You hear me? With the 
trap in my hands, I turned around 
to look at him. He was about sixty 
yards away and looked like a bull
dog as he got down off his 
tracker. Then I heard a smash from 
behind me . I turned back to the 
house to look and I was staring at 
Mrs . Smith. She had whipped up the 
lower half of the window and poked 
her head out through the curtains, 
no more than three feet away from 
me, and at eye level. I could have 
touched her without moving. Her 
face was all points: cheekbones, 
chin and nose.  Hey,   she 
yelled, in a short grating voice. 
That was all she said,  Hey,   
but when she did I almost peed my 
pants right there. My eyes got 
buggy and my legs started shaking.
I guess my instinot for survival 
took over at this point because I 
took a tight grip on my trap aund 
darted for the front steps. Mrs. 
Smith had left the window and was 
racing me from behind the other 
side of the wall towards the front 
door at center porch. Mr. Smith 
was coming at me from the front 
yard. I took all four steps at once 
and headed for the woods. Just as I 
crossed the road, I heard what 
seemed like a shot from behind me . 
When I made it a ways into the 
woods, I dropped to my knees and 
rested. I thought back about the 
shot I heard aund remembered Mr. 
Smith wasnt carrying a gun: 
nobody ever told me Mrs . Smith was 
a crazy lady. From that day on, I 
told everyone that she was missing 
a tooth and smoked a pipe.I
t was still early so I hid 
the trap in a briar and ran 
to my house to get some 
peanut butter. Every once in a 
while, Id turn and jog backwards 
for a few steps, to make sure Mr. , 
or even worse, Mrs. Smith wasnt 
following me . I never met a woman I 
was more afraid of than her; not 
even Mrs . Clause, the cleauning 
lady at my school. She was a large 
womam with a wart on her cheekbone 
and a thin line of dark hair over her 
lip. She used to push the mop down 
the hall with short, sharp, 
strokes, like she was shooing a 
vicious dog or something. She 
often mumbled to herself as she 
did this. My mother told me she 
lived in the town her whole life. 
When she was about eighteen, she 
married a teacher from that same 
school aund they had a child
shortly after. But the child died 
when he was four. He drowned in 
Walker  s pond supposedly. A few 
months after this, her husband 
left the school, the town, and 
her. She took a number of differ
ent jobs in the town before ending 
up at the school. She never re
married and seldom talked to 
anyone.O
ne time I had to stay after 
school for talking three 
times in five minutes. I 
had to write:   I will not talk in 
Mrs. Ridouts class, five 
hundred times. I got pretty good 
at this and was usually able to 
finish it and still have time to 
play before supper. When I was on 
my way out of the school that day,
I was bouncing a pinky ball off the 
walls on the lower level. Nobody 
was around and the lights were 
off.
on  t you ever do that 
1 J again. Mrs. Clouse
ippeared from a classroom 
and was standing with her red 
knuckles dug into the rolls of fat 
bulging from the sides of her 
uniform.  Do you hear me? Dont - 
you - ever - do - that - a - gain,   
she said, jabbing me in the chest 
with her hard finger . I remember 
her eyes looked wild.S
he reached into the room 
real quick and pulled out 
her broom I thought she was 
going to beat me with it, but 
instead she jammed it down into 
the tile, spreading the straw out 
flat.
No maam, I wont, I 
said.  Really.  
 You kids just think 
youre something . . . with all 
your foolin around, wastin time, 
like its nobodys business. Well 
Im sick and tired of it, all of 
it. Do you hear me?  
  Yes I do.  
 'You just watch yourself, 
or next time you wont get another 
chamce . . . Now git,   she said, 
pushing me off with her broom.
didnt say anything else.
1 I took my ball and left.
When I told my mother what 
happened, looking for sympathy, 
she yelled at me and told me I 
didnt understand. I remember t 
thinking how stupid she was for 
not seeing it my way. I avoided 
Mrs. Clouse as best as I could 
after that.I
 spread the peanut butter 
out on a big piece of bark 
and placed it in the trakp.
I really doubted whether it would 
work. Seeing how difficult it was 
for me to get my hauid into the trap 
I didnt think a squirrel had much 
chance of making it. I did my best 
to make it look appealing and then 
I sat behind my elm and waited. Two 
blue jays landed and tried their 
best to get in, but couldnt. I 
didnt know whether to be glad 
about this or not. It started to 
get dark soon and I knew I had to 
go. I felt like a mother abandon
ing her child, sure that it 
wouldnt survive without me. I va.a 
late for dinner but I wasnt very 
hungry. I even went to bed early 
that night, before my mother told 
me to.T
he next morning, I wanted 
to check the trap before 
sohool but I didnt have 
enough time. School went all right 
that day, until Miss Clarke asked 
me if everything was arranged for

---------------------------------------------------

I
party tomorrow. With this, I 
It the last bit of hope that she 
Hit forget. Without the slighthesitation, I told her i-t was. 
[as beginning to believe I 
jly did have a black squirrel. 
ne of the kids in the class asked 
labout it; what did it eat, how 
was it - questions like that. I 
re them answers with no trouble, 
izing myself with how much I 
3w about black squirrels .
he end of the day came at 
last and I went right to 
the woods. About sixty feet 
iy, I could see the trap. It 
joked just as I had left it. I was 
fraid to go to close to it; afraid 
what Id find. So I circled 
round it, moving in a little 
Loser as I went. Then, I thought I 
jard something striking at the 
rap and I couldnt wait any 
anger. I ran to it and saw it 
irashing around. It was a squir1: it was a gray squirrel.
kneeled down next tp the 
cage and watched it for a 
while. It was strange being 
at close to a squirrel without 
being able to run away. At first 
darted back and forth, covering 
s feet with peanut butter as it 
unced between the ends of the 
ap. When it realized I wasnt 
ing to hurt it, it slowed down 
dpaced the length of the cage, 
rning quickly at the ends and 
aring at me with one eye. I 
ddenly realized it was Thursday 
d there was no more time for 
aps, no more time for anything. 
Why couldnt you have been 
ack?  I asked, feeling like a 
ild given the wrong toy for 
ristmas. It was nice, but not 
at I wanted. I thought of the 
|ime my father bought me a wagon 
r my birthday. I told him for 
nths that I wanted a blue wagon 
d I was sure I was going to get 
It. Instead, he got me a red one, 
elling me it was all he could 
ind, refusing to believe a blue 
gon existed. When he saw me 
ping around about it for the 
est of the day, he told me he 
ould paint it any color I wanted, 
hats how I got the idea.I
 carried the cage home 
under my jacket, sneaking 
it into the cellar from the 
ackyard. In the corner of our 
ellar my father kept a box full of 
aints, mostly the oil type, used 
or painting the house. Among the 
pty buckets and paint-frozen 
rushes, there were a few spray 
ans, one of which contained flat 
lack primer. It was left over 
rom when my father touched up the 
ar after my grandmother came to 
isit. On her way out, she caught 
er walker on the rear bumper and 
ook a bad f all. She wasn  t hurt 
ut the car was a little scraped, 
he car was real new then so she 
elt real bad. My father said 
ont worry about it, but later 
hat day he was rubbing the 
cratched area, like a bruise.
'hat was the first time I ever 
eard him say  * shit.  I
 shook the can and it
didnt sound very full, but 
my squirrel wasnt very big 
Hher. I laid newspapers out 
rund the trap, gave the can a 
od shake and went to work. I took 
y first shot at him from the rear, 
atching him in the tail. He 
queaked a little and squn around
0 face me. It looked pretty nice . 
took another shot and he jumped 
^ain. He seemed annoyed but not 
nPain. Then I really got going, 
^ing long sweeping strokes, fol
ding him as he raced back and 
jumping and flipping and 
ing a lot of noise. The cellar 
r opened from above then some0 y took two steps down.
 Mark, is that you?  My 
^her called.
4 Yee, its as,   I ans
wered quickly.
 What are you doing down 
there?
Nothin.
* Nothin? It smells like 
paint down there. Are you painting 
something?
 Kind of.  
 What are you painting?  
She continued, taking another step 
down.
 An a,rt project, mom . . . 
It  s for school.  
 An art project? What is
it? 
Its a . . . squirrel.  
 A squirrel? Cant you use 
crayons?
  I don  t think so,   I 
said, my heart now pounding.   I 
dont have the right color.  
  Don  t you have any grey 
crayons?
I felt like screaming.
  No, I don  t have any grey 
crayons, I said.
 Well just make sure you 
clean up down there,   she said, 
retreating to the upstairs.  You 
know what your father said about 
touching his things.  
T
he next morning, he still 
smelled a lot like paint, 
so I sprayed him with some 
mink oil we had for waterproofing 
shoes. It was either that or pine 
scented bathroom spray and I 
thought he looked more like a mink 
that a pine tree. I got to school a 
little late and everyone had 
already gone in. Before I went in I 
checked him over again, for bare 
spots. He looked pretty good, even 
in the daylight. When I brought 
him in, I didnt know what to 
expect. As I walked through the 
door, I tried to look as proud as 
possible given the circumstances.
 Oh wonderful, Mark, 
Miss Clarke said.  Put the little 
fellow right back here on the 
science table.  A
s I walked down the aisle 
to the back of the class
room, all the kids cooed 
over the squirrel, kneeling on 
their seats to get abetter look. I 
looked over to Louie with a very 
ordinary expression, and raised my 
eyebrows just a little. I saw 
Jimmy smile and look over at Louie 
too.
T
he class went normal that 
morning except for occa
sional interruptions from 
a thrashing sound in the back of 
the room. Each time this happened, 
Miss Clarke would stop teaching 
and look at me. I just shrugged my 
shoulders and smiled. The rest of 
the class laughed.I
 had a hard time paying 
attention to her. My mind 
was spinning around in cir
cles, like it was trying to solve a
problem. Then I suddenly realized 
there was no problem, and I felt 
very peaceful. I remember gazing 
around the room, almost in a 
trance studying the decorations: 
out-out pumpkins, window-painted 
ghosts and construction paper 
witches haunted the room. I always 
liked Halloween, just as I did the 
fall. But this year I liked it even 
more, in a different way. The 
jack-o-lantems glowed with a warm 
glow, and each of the ghosts had 
souls of their own. The scarecrows
I passed on the way to school 
looked humble and friendly now, 
not like some creatures from a 
childhood nightmare. It was all 
very real and personal, like the 
distinct shape of the shore on 
Walkers pond, and the outreaching 
limbs that crossed over the path 
where I walked.I
 saw Mrs . Clouse pushing 
her broom by the classroom 
door. For some reason she 
didnt seem so scarey either. 
Instead, she looked almost sad as 
she mumbled to herself. For the 
first time I wished I knew what she 
was saying. I thought about the 
time she grabbed me; I was sure she 
was going to kill me. It seemed 
silly now, just like the day 
before when Mrs . Smith was after 
me. She didnt seem so terrible 
either. I didnt have to run when 
she called. It would have been all 
right. She wouldnt have whipped 
me or beat me or shot at me. She 
probably wouldn  t have done any
thing worse than my own mother 
would have; nothing worse than 
when I flushed the catfish anyway.
 unchtime came and we
1 stuffed ourselves with
" A candy corn and ghost
shaped marshmallows, hardly 
anyone touching their baggedlunch. Sitting on my desk with my 
feet propped up on my chair, I 
watched as the crowd formed around 
the squirrel in the back of the 
room. Louie came up to me then.
  Hey Mark, that  s a neat 
squirrel you got there.  
Thanks, I said, pick
ing a piece of candy corn from my 
teeth.
 What do you want for 
it?   he asked in a low tone.
I looked up at him, not 
really sure what he meant.
What?
* What do you want for
him?
 You want to trade . . . 
with me . . . for him?  
  You  ve got it. He 
smiled and nodded his head.  What 
do you want?  
I sat up and folded my 
arms . * What have you got?  
  I  ve got that new Zebco 
reel you like a lot?  
* You, that sounds good,  
I said with a smile.
*  Deal then?  
* What else you got?  
* More?  he asked. * What 
else you want?  
'Marbles.
4 How many? 
*  A bag ... a hundred.  
* A hundred,   he yelled, 
hushing his voice and shaking his 
head. O.K. . . . But I get the 
cage too.  
* ' It  s all yours.  
W
e shook hands and finished 
the deal after school. When 
everything was settled he 
told me he was going to call the town 
paper to tell them what he had. I 
smiled and told him he might want 
to call the Guinness people too.
On the way home from his house, I 
passed through the woods along the 
trail. The fall reds were brighter 
than ever and the air had a slight 
hint of burning firewood, cutting 
its crispness. I looked around, 
letting the entire woods consume 
me with its color. I passed by the 
spot where my trap was set. My 
fishing line was still there, 
lofting in the wind. As I passed 
by it I thought I heard something 
rustle in the leaves but I didnt 
look. Instead, I closed ay eyes, 
took a deep breath and went home.

---------------------------------------------------

New s tudyo
IN CHAN&E, STAMPS AND 
6m WRAPPERS?
'LESSEE--
A DREAM IN OUR HEARTS 
A SONG ON OUR. 11PSA DANCt \N OUR StCP00 WE ^ 
Still have: 
OUR. LUCjGA&E?,
Studte
CHECK.
CHECK.
YiAMf yiteou
A WHOU 
mRCHlNo j 
\ BAND / /
<WU need LOTS Of
<_________WATER...
WHAT \Af~Ne*D ir>p 
^new nm^iAv/y
NOj NOf MA'fERlAL, if'S' 
-Too H\nsy; WHAT 
WE N^D 15 FlfTY 
AUVON DRUMS/ )
'TO MAKE if (MG IN 
VAUDfcmS, We 60TTA 
MAK* A SPLASH/
WE COVIO
TKf "THE
OLD
IAETHODAND BuiiO OUR ACT 
AROUND THE NEXT fHKEE WORDS 
V WE HEAR...
OON'T
/Mr.-T
% TH\HK. WrD &ETTiRV\ 
G>u\l0 00K NEVI /\CT 
AROUND tttl NEXT THREE 
WORDS SOKONC USt SM5-;
SO THAT'S 
OoR NEW ACTj 
vN HAVE ME 
AtOME, CREEP/'
WE DON'T HAVE To USE 
THE CREEP'' /
/ NO, >
;ton whc 
lrion 
nhicc
WORDS.
HE PROQAtU'/ WOULDN'T' 
DANCE, AXlYWAy... )
?cBNc ec B?se 
TiccEuu
A SALUTE 10 bhRmi?
ww Ast?s MiyowE ABdn
TO SALOTf r ^ 
6ARBA6E?/ / /5T
I CAN SE Wit ' 
YOU'D WANT 10 BE 
AUOUf mii DOlNOJ 
IT, TH0U6H...
TB^rW
A SALUTE 10 GARBO/
AN AflfNIlUiO 
LEAVE ME ALONE"
*
