The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 5, October 9, 1984.
Four students injured in MMA brawl
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Contributing Editor
Four CMU students were taken to 
Shadyside Hospital last Tuesday night, 
following an altercation in the Margaret 
Morrison Courtyard.
According to the Campus Police report, 
name calling and pushes were exchanged 
between occupants of a Margaret Morrison 
Apartment and some members of the Zeta 
Beta Tau fraternity on Monday, October 1, 
causing the confrontation the following 
night.
On Tuesday, October 2, both parties con
tend they received phone calls from the 
other party and met in the courtyard, where 
the fight ensued.
The police report also states that unin
volved witnesses saw three sets of numchuks, 
a weapon used in the martial arts, and ap! Jproximately 45 people involved in the fight. 
A dozen of the involved were the Margaret 
Morrison residents and friends who 
aliedgedly had the numchucks in their 
possession.
Three of the four students taken to the 
hospital were released that night with minor 
injuries. The fourth student, a ZBT frater
nity member, sustained major injuries to his 
mouth and dental area, apparently caused 
by being struck across the face by a pair of 
numchuks. He is undergoing plastic surgery 
ion his lip and reconstruction of his dental 
area, including two root canals, five restora
tions and gold caps.
According to the involved Margaret Mor
rison residents, the problem started Monday 
i night in Hamerschlag House with comments
and pushing interchanged between the two 
groups.
The initial cause of the quarrel seems to 
have been ZBTs refusal to shut a door. The 
two members of the fraternity that were pre
sent left before a serious quarrel erupted.
One of the involved MM residents attests 
that he was told that campus police saw 15 
ZBT walking around and looking for him 
Monday night.
The same resident went on to say that he 
was summoned from Hunt Library Tuesday 
night by a friend who told him that ten guys 
were looking for [him]. He and the eight 
friends with whom he was studying left the 
library to see what they wanted.
They returned to the apartment and 
called ZBT to find out what was going on. 
He contends that ZBT later returned the call 
later and kept him busy until approximate
ly 40 fraternity brothers arrived at the apart
ment. The fight then took place.
When questioned about possession of the 
numchucks, the resident said that he didnt 
know whose they were, but when he saw 
them he picked them up and started swing
ing. The resident and his friend contend 
that only one pair of numchuks were used 
in the fight.
The resident explained, It was self 
defense, we were so outnumbered. He 
added, Numchuks can be found anywhere 
on campus.
The same resident has been suspended 
pending a hearing by the University 
Disciplinary Committee.
ZBT did not comment about the 
altercation.
photo by Neil Greenblum
Margaret Morrison Apartments, the sight of a fight between residents and ZBT 
brothers.
A witness, Abby Silver, who lives in a MM 
apartment, said she saw one pair of num
chuks and approximately 35 people involved 
in the fight.
Sergeant Mary Suber, who was on duty 
that night, said that when she arrived on the 
scene, the fight had dissolved into name call
ing and pushing. Suber said at least 75 peo
ple had congregated in the courtyard, not
all involved in the fight.
The University Disciplinary committee, 
including two faculty members, two students 
and a moderator, hope to resolve the varie
ty of charges that have been made in the 
next two weeks. Commented Dean of Stu
dent Affairs Braden Walter, Until the in
vestigation is concluded, we cannot tell you 
more than you probably know.
Focus on bookstoreProfits from Auxiliaries put into reserves
By MOHAN EMBAR
Tartan Editorial Asst.
CMU Bookstore, located in lower level 
Baker Hall, sells all required university tex
tbooks as well as trade books, stationery, 
clothing and sundry goods.
The bookstore is operated by the Auxiliary 
Services division. According to the 
Undergraduate Catalog 1984^86, each [of
the auxiliary services] offers its facilities and 
services in order to meet the different needs 
of the campus community, and each ... is 
entirely self-sufficient, supported only by the 
people it serves. These features mean that 
each department must provide the very best 
services its resources permit, and must look 
continuously for better ways to serve CMUs 
students, staff, and faculty
store was called one of the best auxiliaries by Oscar Mayer.
Oscar H. Mayer, director of Auxiliary Ser
vices, states, Auxiliary operations are all 
supposed to operate on the revenues they are 
supposed to take in. Theyre not supposed 
to be a burden and not supposed to be a 
source of additional revenue. Theyre sup
posed to break even.
As a campus store, the bookstore has a 
central account at Warner Hall. Revenues 
are deposited in the account and the invoices 
are paid from from the account by CMU.
Mary Lou Hartnett, bookstore manager, 
explains that textbooks are selected by the 
professors who place their order with the 
bookstore. She anticipates what other items 
the students want, such as stationery, teeshirts and sweatsuits. Food items such as 
gum and candy, arrive weekly.
Of her main goal, Hartnett said,  Id like 
to be able to have people want to come in 
and enjoy coming in. Were here to provide 
a service for them.
The major complaint about the 
bookstore, claims Hartnett, is the price of 
textbooks. Books ordered from the publisher 
are sold at retail price, which is 20 percent 
higher than the wholesale price at which the 
bookstore purchases the books. CMU 
students get a five percent discount off the 
retail price.
Based on data provided by Mayer, the net 
profit for the fiscal year 1983 was $106,000. 
This figure follows from the total income, 
$1,793,000, minus operating expenses such 
as payroll, freight, benefits, and assorted 
utility bills.
For the 1982 fiscal year, the net profit was 
$34,800. According to Mayer, the budget 
[allocated for the bookstore] has normally 
anticipated a net operating income of 
$70,000 to $95,000.
The $106,000 was set aside in an auxiliary 
reserve account. The principle use of 
reserves, says Mayer, is to accumulate a 
cushion against a bad year. There was that 
much [last year]; this year I hope there is 
more. Fiscal policies used to have an overall 
objective to maintain an operating reserve 
of 15 percent of this years expected net in
come.
The reserves encompass all auxiliary accontinued on page 2
In this issue
News
New Philosophy head...........page 2
Homecoming schedule..........page 5
Features
New Chem head....................page 7
IFC races..................................page 7
Entertainment
Architects at Forbes.............page 9
Sci-Fi convention................page 10
Sports
Football dominates..............page 13
X-country keeps winning... page 13 
Editorial
Tenure influence...................page 19

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 9, 1984
New philosophy department
headed by Glymour- next fall
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
Stanford University Professor Clark 
Glymour, Ph.D. Indiana University will head 
the new Philosophy Department next fall. 
Unlike the present philosophy program, 
which is part of the Department of History 
and Philosophy, the new department will be 
a separate entity.
According to current program head 
Preston Covey, everyone from President 
Richard Cyert to H&SS Dean Charles Kiesler 
to philosophy faculty felt that the formation 
of a separate Philosophy Department was 
appropriate and long overdue. Expansion is 
part of an ongoing policy of strengthening 
all departments and making CMU more 
competitive in every department with other 
universities. Covey described the move as 
developing a department that would relate 
to, build upon, and exploit the comparative 
strengths of Camegie-Mellon University.
The philosophy of science is an area in 
which the department is particularly strong 
and especially competitive with the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh. This area includes 
philosophical applications in economics and 
statistics, two of CMUs strongest depart
ments, and cognitive and computer science, 
according to Covey.
The second strength of Philosophy in
cludes disciplines of logic and philosophy of 
mathematics. An important subtopic in this 
area is artificial intelligence.
Normative theory constitutes a third 
strength of the department. Included in this 
field are ethics, social and political theory, 
and esthetics. Applications in these areas in
clude the diverse studies of policy analysis, 
art history and criticism.
Computer applications is a fourth area of 
interest presently using the computer for 
research and the emphasis on theory and ap
plications underlies all research and efforts 
of Philosophy, says Covey.
The department stresses the wide ap
plicability of the major in Philosophy, 
especially when combined with another ma
jor. Every subject from art to engineering has 
a philosophy, and, invaluable aid in 
understanding and evaluating the content 
of the subject, in particular the fundamen
tal opposing views within the subject.
Philosophy majors also have the oppor
tunity to participate in the Philosophy 
Honors Program, where they can gain ex
perience in philosophical analylsis by com
pleting an honors thesis.
Philosophy faculty is engaged in a wide 
range of research. Covey has completed a 
system of computer programs which are 
designed to teach students techniques of for
mal logic and argument analysis. Prof. 
Ernest Alieva, Ph.D. Columbia University, 
has completed empirical investigations of the 
economic feasibility and productivity of 
worker-owned enterprises in Europe and the 
United States. Prof. Leslie Burkholder, 
Ph.D. M.I.T., is interested in social choice 
theory, applied to political and public policy 
issues. He has also developed a course on 
computers and humanity. The course will 
examine such issues as the ethics of com
puter technology and the similarities of com
puter intelligence to human intelligence.
Overall, Prof. Covey is optimistic about 
the future of the Philosophy Department. 
Previously, with only five professors, the 
curriculum has been necessarily limited*. 
There have never been more than 12 or 13 
philosophy majors at a time.
With 9 or more philosophy faculty next 
fall, however, Covey is hopeful that these 
numbers will increase, and that will make 
it possible for us to offer a much richer pro
gram.
Auxiliaries examined
continued from page 1
tivities. If we were to start a new bookstore, 
debits would come from the reserves and 
would be recorded as deficits, said Mayer.
Mayer estimates that $200,000 should be 
maintained in the reserve account. If 
money keeps accumulating, funds are used 
for related auxiliary activities and benefits 
to the university community in general. He 
cites examples of these benefits as im
provements to Skibo(such as 83 Ballroom 
floor resurfacing) and the development of 
the Margaret Morrison Plaza in 1979 which 
included funding for the Caber Club and in
stallation of the computer terminal room. > 
According to Mayer, the bookstore has 
has been one of the best auxiliaries. it 
has a continuing series of positive balances. 
Bill McCormick, president of Student 
Senate, is forming a committee to institute 
a viable and effective means of input from 
CMU students to different departments of I 
Auxiliary Services. McCormick says that the I 
committee will also investigate the benefit  
these services offer to the student body. | 
Unregulated monopolies are not in the | 
students best interest,  said McCormick.
Make us laugh.
Dr. Clark Glymour is the head
ABCoffeehouse wants someone who is funny.If youre a comedian interested in performing as the opening for Alex Cole on October 20 (during midsemester break), leave your name and phone number in ABCoffeehouses mailbox behind Skibo Information Desk.
Let us see what youve got.
(f

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1984The TartanPage 3
of the Student Senate * ' \ - . - ' ; 
October 2, 1984 
The meeting was called to order at 7:07 p.m. 'P': '
Present: Bett, Bruno, Cotes, Cor less, DeBmff, Golds
tein, Pane, Rocher, Soller. Taylor, Volan (late), Weller, 
McCormick (latte), Frank, Nichols. Denburg, Bean 
Walter, Miller, Bach, Mukjerjee. Carpenter, Rizza, 
Piscitelk* (late), Bostin, Chu.
Absent: Doer, Seating, Salley (excused), Dean Cox, 
Jagerski.
Committee to Promote Greek and Non-Greek 
Involvement.
Chairman: Thanked all for participation in 
phonathon. Announced the cosm&ittee assignments of 
all new Senators
Minutes: September 25corrected and approved, 
j None.
SDC: Announced the Hawaiian Dance on Saturday, 
October 6, from 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m.; there will be
a DJ.
pho tby report.
:
part cf a Tartan article on LFCs
Vice-Chairman: No report.
Rules: Announced that petitions for seats from CFA. 
GSIA, and SUPA are still available, Thought press con 
ference" story in the Tartan was a success Election dates 
will be set up at the next meeting. Two vacancies were 
filled: MCS: 1 seat, 1 petition Seth Kaplan  ac
cepted by acclamation; CIA: 2 seats, 1 petition Dar
rin Rizza  accepted by acclamation.
Academic Affairs: The English as a Second Language 
for Foreign T.A.s is in the planning stages; it will be 
implemented next year, first semester. The issue of 
cheating at CMU will be discussed by a few senators 
with Or. Crecine. H&SS professors must accept any 
typed form of paperthey cannot require that it be 
Scribed, as has reportedly happened in the past.
GC&l: Lisa Brunoff presented the ad that Senate put 
id todays Tartan issue.
Finance: The budget for the Homecoming event was 
presented. It includes $2,000 to be contributed by 1FC 
(among other contributors such as the administration, 
AB, and SDC) which will be put toward the barbeque. 
The $2,000 is to be allocated by Senate. Allocation: 
Passed. Dean Walter announced idea for class competi
tions throughout the year, the kickoff to be during 
Homecoming.
Dean Walter: Called for feedback concerning the class 
competition kickoff during Homecoming. Discussion 
followed on whether the competition should be between 
classes or schools. Dean Walter emphasized that class 
competition was chosen at the ideas conception with 
the goal of unifying the campus. Announcement that 
Clan Clubs are getting off Use ground; contact Ed LiSey 
if interested.
President: Pointed out the monopolies students have 
to deal with os c am pus: Food Service, the bookstore, 
Housing. Price controls over Auxiliary Services have
been discussed with the administration. A Presidents 
committee to deal with price controls was proposed; 
contact Bid McCormick if interested. This committee 
will be open to non-senators. David Goldstein suggested 
Parking as another monopoly to consider. Dean Walter 
said that he doesn't think it would be a bad idea to have 
some feedback concerning allocations m the Auxiliary 
Services Budget.
Old Business: None.
New Business: None.
General Discussion: Norn.
Announcements: Happy Birthday to Cindy Taylor 
Dean Walter  See Ed Liley about class clubs; applauds 
working of meeting since retreat. Shep Bostin is doing 
a Student Bulletin Board; see him if you have infor
mation. Announcement of committee meetings.
The meeting was adjourned at 7:51 p.m. 
Respectfully submitted,
Leslie Frank, secretary
Dodge
COLLEGIATETheNwsparof* THE TIONAL OLLEGIATE c* DRIVING kMPIONSHIPS
Question: What student organization has 
give you a real voice in faculty tenure and 
your own tuition?
15 COA/UNG!
DRIVE the revolutionary 1985 Dodge Daytona Turbo 
a real rally course set up on campus.
if STUDENT with a driver's license and student ID is 
to test his/her performance driving skills.
i and FREE OF CHARGE 50* DonOjHOD^flroteed* benefit:
The answer?
Webern PA Hemophilia 
FbondaHon
Win the use of a 1985 Dodge Daytona Turbo for one year.
The winner (best time without penalties) at this campus 
WINS ATRIP TO DAYTONA BEACH, FL. during Spring Break to 
compete with other college winners in the National 
Championships.
Student Senate
Working together, 
we get things done.
Sponsor^ XnHrfroctemrU Council\ *lJǓ Ut * jjLocation: Mott WO odl
Dates 
Times.
mirht Co 
Tifino
CwnOctober ^
5:oo - V:oo TM
Supported by:
OodqcAn
AmericanRevolutionGOODYEAR
Ottici* ruiM avaHabia at th* competition art* No purch nKlwuyfcfwjfjavetu rwoWmerif ^
MIT professor receives CMU's 
$20,000 Joseph Z. Dickson Prize
He has done earlier work in the fields of 
robotics, music synthesis, graphics and 
character recognition.
Not only a scientist, Dr. Fredkin is a suc
cessful entrepreneur in associations with a 
number of high technology ventures. He is 
an Air Force veteran and participates in 
anti-war activities. He has given lectures on 
this subject here at CMU as well as donating 
$100,000 from his Fredkin Foundation. This 
donation went as a prize for the first com
puter to achieve world chess champion 
status.
His future plans include further research 
as well as a possible book and lecture series.
By BONNIE JACOBSEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Professor Edward F. Fredkin of MIT was 
the recipient of the $20,000 Dickson Prize 
created by Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Z. Dickson 
in 1970. The award was presented by 
Richard M. Cyert Monday night.
The prize is given in recognition of
outstanding scientific contributions.
Fredkins latest research has led to the
development of a field called conservative
logic, information mechanics and reversible
computation. Using these concepts, he has
developed  Fredkin Gate, a new electronic Edward F. Fredkin of MIT has developed Fredkin Gate, a new electronic element, element

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 9,1t64
Labor Board to evaluate Pa. school districts
By KAREN WOODILLA
Thrtmn Stoffwriter
CMUs Center for Labor Studies is begin
ning an 18-month evaluation of the collec
tive bargaining process in Pennsylvania's 504 
school districts. The Center will examine 
and evaluate the nearly 15 year history of 
bargaining rights for Pennsylvanias public 
school personnel and discover ways to 
decrease strikes.
The studys principal investigators are Ben 
Fischer, the centers director and former 
Assistant President of Steelworkers Union,
and Dr. Otto Davis, a CMU economist and 
public policy analyst and specialist in labor 
economics.
"The study will deal with fact-finding, 
structures, and policy issues," said Fischer. 
Because each school district is substantial
ly autonomous, there is a need to collect in 
one place an information base, not only of 
wage and benefits, but the procedural and 
structural characteristics of collective 
bargaining in the various districts. This must 
be done in order to understand how the pro
cess has worked and what are the possible
shortcomings.
The center will analyze and model data 
gleaned from public files, case histories, the 
role of the press, and interviewing. Fischer 
emphasized that the study will include an 
extensive system of consultations with school 
boards, administrators, unions, the three 
branches of state government and other con
cerned citizens.
School district characteristics, such as the 
composition of School Boards, amount spent 
on each pupil, size, and local traditions 
will also be considered.
Pennsylvania is first in the nation [in the 
number of] teacher strikes . . . We hope that 
by studying the public sector bargaining 
process in detail, we can make suggestions 
for ways to go about collective bargaining
that mighty help both sides, says Davis. Out 
of studies previously recorded, this goes in
to the greatest detail.
Conclusions will be made concerning the 
collective bargaining process in general. 
Our region
strikehappy. It it feared that this is one of 
the reason! that the economy here is not do
ing as well as it should. Finding useful sug
gestions and ways to implement them could
attract business to Pittsburgh  Davis said.
Our objective is not to amend the law. 
We are setting out to look at the bargaining 
process in industrtial and corporation labor 
unions. The long tradition of collective 
bargaining in the past 20 years has revealed 
a maturation process. The realization of two 
sides that they have a lot of interests in com
mon has meant less and less tendency to 
strike. People are settling, Davis added.
The results of the Labor Centers study 
will be shared in a conference where State 
Unions and School Boards will discuss fin
dings and make suggestions in a give and 
take atmosphere, says Davis.
Funding for the study has been provided 
by The Pittsburgh Foundation, the Henry 
C. Frick Educational Commission, and the
15 Will UC 11 Id LAC LUllLClUUlg lilt Ta iiv. a iiiauui 11 lUUliUi
rgaining process in general. C. Frick Educational Com 
has the reputation for being US Department of Labor.
63 pledge A-Phi-0
photo by Colin Raffertv
Otto Davis has been leading a research team investigating collective bargaining.
The Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega 
National Service Fraternity is proud to an
nounce its largest pledge class ever. Sixtythree women and men pledged on Sunday, 
Sept. 30, 1984. The pledges are:
Mark Abramowitz, Scot Allen, Karen 
Axel, Eric Baldeschwieler, Kara Bergland, 
Bill Bir, Thomas Bitonti, Vin Bocchino, 
Eric Borm, Barbra Broidy, Linda 
Busdiecker, Lori Calkins, Susan Campbell, 
Guido Capolino, Albert Cheng, Paul 
Cohen, Steve Cohen, August Consiglio, Joe 
Costa, Joan Dahl, Dawn Fialkoff, Carol 
Freund, Chrisi Haretos, Dana Hausman, 
Sherry Hess, Erik Horn, Kim Jerpe, Paula 
Johnson, Sandy Jonas, David Kopchik, Dan
Kovacs, Roland Kovacs, Chuck Kraisinger, 
Dave Lawrence, Cathy Lin, Rob Lin, Jyl 
Luria, Kyle Mabin, Ron Manila, Jim 
Metzler, Mark Mistrik, Richard Moronay, 
John Ojeda, James Pike, Cathy Rang, Art 
Roberts, Ilona Roth, John Salmento, Mike 
Schenk, Harvey Shaw, Bruce Sigell, Nick 
Sowko, Cathy Veit, Rob Wang, Harold 
Weisenbloom, Brenda Welling, Jay West, 
Chuck Whitaker, John Wills, Karen 
Woodilla, Eirene Yamamura, Ed Zak, and 
Jordan Zommick.
The Rush Chairperson and Pledge Master 
for this class is Joe Guarino. The Brothers 
of A Phi O wish the pledges the best of luck.
CMU #1
CAPRI PIZZA # 1
fcr Friendly Service and the Best Products 
We Use 1CC% Pure Mozzarella Cheese 
Dc ethers?
LARGE 1C CUT PIZZA 
INCLUDING 2 LITERS f PEPSI
S3.SCree ABCof e huCCsw
I A I IN OP 1AKE OUT
PIZZA-Z
Order your favorite 
with all the extras'
EDEE DELIVERY 5:C DM-2:CC AM 
ODEN 7 DAYS A WEED 
341J ECDBES AVE. DGD. DA, 1J213 
DDONE C81-22C2 OD 681-22C3

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1984The Tartan-Page 5
Former astronaut describes shuttle flight
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan Asst. News Editor
Colorful, detailed shots of the earths ter
rain highlighted former astronaut Terry 
Harts description of his voyage in last Aprils 
Space Shuttle mission.
Harts presentation in CMUs Adamson 
Wing last Tuesday evening, which included 
a description of the shuttle mission and cor
responding footage as well as a general 
history of the space program, marked the 
start of the Technical Opportunities 
Conference.
The main objective of Aprils flight, ac
cording to Hart, was the repair of the disa
bled Solar Maximum Mission satellite. The 
satellite had gone out of control due to what 
Hart called a hot spot resulting from
mechanical problems.
The secondary objective was to deploy the 
Long Duration Exposure Facility. This is a 
22,000 pound, 32 foot apparatus contain
ing 86 trays of scientific experiments. These 
experiments will test for different effects of 
long term exposure in space.
Much of the repair work was aided by the 
Remote Manipulator System (RMS), which 
used a giant mechanical arm to move the 
astronauts around the area of the satellite 
while they worked.
As part of a five-person crew, Hart was 
responsible for rendezvous navigation and 
targeting, the RMS operation and IMAX 
camera operation.
A new development in space technology, 
according to Hart, is the use of
weightlessness in manufacturing 
pharmecuticals. Hart said
that this process can develop drugs 700 times 
more pure than previously produced. Hart 
cited the purification of cells in the pancreas 
of the diabetic as one possible breakthrough. 
There are 3.2 million diabetics in the United 
States.
Hart estimated the cost of each Shuttle 
flight at $100 million.
Hart was born in Pittsburgh and 
graduated from Mt. Lebanon High School 
in 1964. He received a B.S. in Mechanical 
Engineering from Lehigh University in 1968, 
an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 
1969, and an M.S. in Electrical Engineer
ing from Rutgers University in 1978.
Hart entered active duty with the Air 
Force Reserve in 1969 and completed 
undergraduate pilot training at Moody Air 
Force Base, Georgia, in December, 1970. He 
flew with the New Jersey Air National Guard 
from 1973 to 1978. During that time he was 
employed as a member of the Technical Staff 
of AT&T Bell Laboratories.
In January, 1978, Hart was selected by 
NASA as one of 35 Astronaut Candidates. 
He was assigned to the support crew of the 
first three Space Shuttle missions before he 
lifted off from the Kennedy Space Center on 
April 6, 1984.
Hart returned in July of this year to AT&T 
Bell Laboratories where he is the Supervisor 
of the Military and Space Applications 
Group.
' L - 
Schedule of Events Saturday, October 13
Homecoming 1984 All day Open tours of the University Com*
Friday, October 12 puter Center will be given.
of the University Com- 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Andrew Carnegie
i>e given. Society will hold an open house in the Skibo4:00 FM Hewlett Gallery will Faculty Lounge.
y David Aschkenas. 9:00 AM - 11:00 AM Cameron Clan will
- 5:00 PM Hunt Library will show hold a reception in Skibo Rooms 105 and
memorabilia and a fine 106.
display.
7:00 PM Student Senate spon
sors free roller skating in the area of The
Cut.
4:00 PM - 6:00 PM Com on the Cut  a 
SARC project for present CMU 
duates. In case of rain, Sunday 
2:00 PM - 4:00 PM.
4 00 PM Student Senate sponsors a 
s; avenger hunt. All students are welcome.
Fa ms from freshman, sophomore, junior, 
and senior classes will compete.
8:00 PM Oktoberfest Buffet in Skibo 
Saliroom.
9:00 PM There will be a torchlight parade 
ft o n Morewood Gardens to the IM field, en
ding in a pep rally and bonfire.
10:00 AM - 5:00 PM The Hewlett Gallery 
will feature photographs by David 
Aschkenas.
11:00 AM - 1:30 PM There will be an 
alumni-student buffet on The Cut.
11:00 AM - 2:00 PM Student Senate will 
sponsor competition between the classes in
cluding volleyball, tug-of-war, and medicine 
ball. All students are welcome on The Cut.
2:00 PM The Tartan square-off against 
Grove City at Tech Field.
Homecoming
9:30 AM - 10:15 AM John P. Crecine, vicepresident for Academic Affairs, will speak 
in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
9:00 AM Architecture will hold a continen
tal breakfast reception in CFA 201.
10:00 AM Architecture will move its recep
tion to Doherty Hall 3300 for a demonstra
tion of computer-aided design.
10:00 AM - 2:00 PM The childrens school 
will hold an open house in Margaret Mor
rison, Room 17.
11:00 AM - 12:00 PM President Richard M. 
Cyert will speak in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo.
11:30 AM - 2:00 PM Interfratemity Coun
cil, Student Dormitory Council, and Ac
tivities Board sponsor a free barbeque for 
all students.
12:00 PM - 3:00 PM SUPA will hold a 
reception in SUPA lounge.
1:00 PM The Homecoming parade will start 
on The Cut.
After football game The 1939 Sugar Bowl 
and 1978-79 Tartans will hold a reception in 
Salads Plus, Skibo.
After football game Civil Engineering will 
hold an open house in Porter Hall, Room 7.
7:00 PM Cocktails and dinner will be serv 
ed for reunion classes in the Skibo Ballroom 
8:00 PM A free dance and concert, featur
ing David Johansen, will be held in Thistle 
Hall Gym.
ON CAMPUS 
TUESDAY 
OCTOBER 23
Ask your Placement Office for details on our 
upcoming campus visit, or see our ad in this paper 
next Tuesday, October 16 for additional informa
tion. LLNL is an equal opportunity employer, 
m/f/h. U.S. citizenship is required.
of califrniaLiveriitfJ
PACES HAS A NEW OWNER.
Paces has better prices...
Paces has bigger scoops...
Paces has homemade ice cream...
Paces has tofutti! Also featuring: homemade cakes, pies and 
cookies; espresso, cappuccino and coffee (all also available 
decaffeinated); sandwiches (turkey, ham, roast beef) 
and...kybers!r -1/2-off coupon
single cone Expies oct23,1904I PACES I PACES,
1/2-off coupon 
1 cappuccino
Expires Oct.23, 1964
$1.00 off I 
sandwiches  
reg. $2.95
Expires Oct.23. 1964tice creamery
420 South Craig Street * Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 * 683-2780
Attention SENIORS
Portrait Proof Pick-Up Tues. & Wed. October 16 & 17 ONLY 
Skibo Rm. 13 
10 am  6 pm
(Tell your friends...)

---------------------------------------------------

JOHN STOCKWELL
Hic Secret Mills of the ('It
Activities Board Lectures presents
An Evening with
John Stockwell
Tuesday, Oct. 9 
Skibo Ballroom*
8:00 pm
John Stockwell is the highest-ranked CIA. official to openly criticize the Agency. A former 
case officer in Africa and Vietnam, advisor to the top-secret National Security Council', John 
Stockwell is that rare American hero  a man who cared deeply enough to fight for his country, 
and deeply enough to speak out against its sins.
John Stockwell takes you on a guided tour into the dark corners of foreign policy. When 
he condemns the C.l. A. s secret military adventures, he is not just spouting academic theory: he 
is telling you what he saw first-hand in the war-torn nations of southern Africa, the ravaged 
jungles of Vietnam, and the austere boardrooms of C.l.A. headquarters.
Why is the US pouring arms and money into El Salvador, and waging a clandestine war 
in Nicaragua? Why do we prop up military dictators in some countries, and help overthrow 
democracies elsewhere? What should the United States be doing in the third world?
JOHN STOCKWELL SHOULD BE HEARD!

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
From L.A. to PittsburghNew head of Chemistry to revitalize department
photo by Olve Peersen
Robert R. Birge, the new Chemistry Department head.
By ARTHUR GELMIS
Asst. Features Editor
CMUs graduate program in chemistry 
was once ranked among the top five in the 
country. It is now ranked 24th. However, it 
will not occupy that position much longer 
if Robert R. Birge, the new head of the 
department, can help it. According to him, 
CMU will move well into the top 20 within 
the next three years.
Birge, who worked at the University of 
California at Riverside before coming to 
CMU in July, blamed the deterioration of the 
graduate program partly on the insufficient 
number of facutly, which has dropped to 14. 
We need at least 25 people to be able to 
compete with some of the better chemistry 
programs, said Birge.
Currently, the competition is very,very 
severe, according to Birge. This is especial
ly true in the case of CMU because it has 
to compete with universities twice its size and
with twice the amount of resources.
While the department has maintained its 
strength in the areas of theoretical chemistry, 
polymer science, and nuclear magnetic 
resonance (nmr) spectroscopy, other areas 
have not fared as well. Birges immeditate 
goals include strengthening the departments 
involvement in the fields of organic 
chemistry and molecular spectroscopy. This 
will include $500,000 worth of new in
strumentation for research in organic 
chemistry.
Birge also wants to maximize the interac
tion of his department with the Department 
of Biological Sciences. There are several 
reasons for this. One is a new trend toward 
a more biologic ally-related chemistry. This 
is partly the result of the replacement of the 
National Science Foundation by the Na
tional Institute of Health (NIH) as the more 
reliable source of funding. Biige feels this 
is a healthy trend in that chemistry can uni
quely contribute to the field of molecular 
electronics and, in turn, improve mans abili
ty to treat human ailments, particularly in 
the area of vision.
Birges strongest interest right now is in the 
field of laser spectroscopy, which has con
siderable medical applications. It is useful 
in dealing with such visional problems as 
glaucoma and retinitus pigmentosa. He 
hopes that his work will have significant im
pact on how doctors approach treatment of 
these diseases.
Although the university is providing the 
necessary financial support for Birges plans 
to rebuild the graduate chemistry program, 
there is still a considerable obstacle in the 
form of inadequate facilities. The quality 
and quantity of space at Mellon Institute 
poses problems, said the department head.
There is a possibility of a new building 
on campus which will house all the 
laboratory sciences. If this does not 
materialize, the present facilities at the 
Mellon Institute will have to be significant
ly renovated. Although these plans are not 
yet definite, Birge feels the present facilities 
will have to be either replaced or renovated 
in order for CMU to effectively compete with 
the stronger academic institutions.
While the graduate chemistry program 
L^is suffered significant setbacks over the re
cent past, the undergraduate program, 
Birge said, has remained one of the best in 
the country. It has a very high number of
American Chemistry Society certified 
graduates. And although CMU is a relatively 
small school, the quality of its 
undergraduate chemistry program equals 
that of much larger schools.
This is an excellent time for chemistry 
graduates. According to Birge, there are 
plenty of employment opportunities. In
dustry has always been driven by chemistry 
. . and academic openings have tripled while 
the number of students has declined, he 
said.
Birges own professional interest was not 
always in chemistry. Before his junior year 
in college, he wanted to become a musician. 
As he looks back now, he calls his plans to 
become a music composer unrealistic 
because he did not see the limitations of his 
abilities. There is no room for a lot of com
posers, he explained.
But what does music have in common 
with chemistry? Music composition is a 
mathematical science, explained Birge, 
since it involves musical arrangement and 
orchestration. Although music and 
chemistry produce different results, the 
ability is the same.
While music remains his avocation, Birge 
now sees himself as a chemist. In his opi
nion, he made the right decision in choos
ing to go into chemistry. Science is a very 
creative area. And it is moving so rapidly 
that it is impossible to get bored. One can 
make many important contributions 
through science. According to Birge, peo
ple in other professions may be equally 
talented, but their contribution is likely to 
be less than that of the scientist.
It didnt take long for Birge to adjust to 
his new_place of living. Pittsburgh is 100 
times better than L.A. It has a lot of very 
positive aspects people outside of it dont 
realize. It is a marvelous city. I just wish 
theyd fix the pot holes.
New club for money collectors to open
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter 
Numismatics.
Whats that you ask? My dictionary 
defines it as the study and/or collection of 
coins, but Michael Sullivan believes that its 
much more. In fact, numismatists also dealIFC sponsors car race to 
benefit local foundation
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor
Have you ever thought raising money for 
charity could be fun?
Today and tomorrow, Interfratemity 
Council (IFC) is sponsoring the National 
Collegiate Driving Championships. Not only 
do you get to drive a Dodge Daytona, but 
you also have fun and raise money for chari
ty at the same time.
Kathy Garcia, projects chairperson for 
IFC, thought the races would be a good idea 
to raise money. Bill McCormick organized 
ne last year, she said, and it went over 
well. I figured that with a little more plan
ning and publicity, this years should be even better.
The main backer behind the races is the 
Chrysler Corporation. To promote safety for 
young drivers, the company goes to various 
campuses nationwide and has students test 
drive a new car. The drive consists of safe
ty maneuvering a 1985 Dodge Daytona Tur
bo through a Solo II Rally course.
The obstacle course isnt really that hard, 
Garcia explains, its only 150 feet by 100 
feet. The only qualification is that students 
need to have a valid drivers license. Then
the fun starts. The charity part comes 
before, since each participant is asked to 
donate $0.50.
The majority of the donation, though, 
comes from Chrysler itself. We get $250 
from the company for just participating in 
their safety promotion, Garcia states. The 
only requirement from IFC is that we have 
four people present from 5:00 pm to 11:00 
pm each day.
The proceeds from this fundraiser will 
benefit the Western Pennsylvania Chapter of 
National Hemophilia Foundation. Garcia 
realized that compared to cancer research, 
hemophilia foundations dont receive many 
donations. Since this disorder affects many 
people every year and no house has it as a 
pet charity, I figured the Hemophilia 
Foundation would best benefit from this 
fund raiser.
Not only will the participants donations 
and Chryslers $250 go for research, but also 
the $250 raised from last year.
There was a mix-up before and forms 
were filed too late, Garcia explains. This 
year well get a total of $500 plus whatever 
else we make from donations and give it all 
continued on page 8
in paper money, tokens, political items such 
as buttons, broken bank notes, and 
literature.
How interesting can that be? After speak
ing with Sullivan, one could say very. 
Sullivan also urges that students and faculty 
are equally welcomed.
Whats the reason for this new club? There 
are two. First, members will promote and 
learn numismatics. Second, it will be a place 
for those with a common interest to get 
together and socialize. It will be a time to 
discuss your interests, to learn about others 
interests, and to hear from the experts. 
Sullivan hopes to get speakers for some of 
the meetings.
So, who is the guy that wants to start this
club? Sullivan, a Chemical tngmeenng ma
jor, is extemely dedicated to his hobby. He 
began collecting pennies at age seven and 
slowly delved deeper into the material. His 
main interest being literature, Sullivan 
houses a library of approximately two thou
sand rare books and auction catalogs. He 
finds these books through old collectors, 
advertisements, and occasionally in 
bookstores.
Sullivan is an active member of the 
American Numismatic Association and the 
Numismatic Bibliomania Society. He has 
written articles for their journals and is to 
be published next month. In addition, he 
is currently writing his second book. This 
edition, entitled Bowers Checklist, is an 
continued on page 8

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 9, 1984
Socialist candidate for President interviewed
Editors note: this is the first in a series of 
articles on presidential candidates other 
than the two major party candidates.
By BILL GARRISON
Tartan Staffwriter
Ed Winn is the first US Presidential can
didate for the labor-minded political party 
called the Workers League. He is a mechanic 
for the transit authority of New York City, 
a trade union leader, and co-chairman of the 
Local 100 Trade-Union Alliance for a Labor 
Party. Winn is a Marxist and a firm believer 
in creating a socialist America.
In the two-hour interview that took place 
between Winn, an unidentified man who 
accompanied Winn, two WRCT inter
viewers, and myself, Winn gave no idea that 
he knew how to run a political office. For 
instance, Winn never explained, even briefly, 
how he planned to implement any of his 
Russian-oriented ideas. Two such ideas are
the uprise of the working class against the 
evil rich, and the overthrow of American 
democracy in favor of socialism.
Most of Winns answers to vital questions 
were vague and often times unintelligible. 
On issues of abortion and the separation of 
church and state, Winn offered that We 
[the Workers League] feel the same about 
it as Reagan or Mondale.
On the economy, Winn called for a com
plete overthrow of the capitalist system in 
favor of socialism. Saying, in effect, that the 
entire wealth of the US is hoarded by 60 
families, of which the Camegies and the 
Mellons are miserly members.
When asked what he though was wrong 
with the Democratic and Republican par
ties, Winn informed us that they were 
useless, degenerate, and rooted in evil.
Winn was asked to give some information 
on what the Workers League planned to do
Leon Trotsky: his ideas infuluenced the Worker's League.
A The Enterprise Corporation 
y of Pittsburgh
presents
Entrepreneurs
lloy Learn how to
" succeed by meeting 
those who have
A One-Day Conference 
Friday, Oct. 12,1984
David Lawrence 
Convention Center 
Pittsburgh, PA
Call 578-3481 
for information
Student Rate $30.00
in solving these problems. He stated, We 
want to abolish the presidency, the CIA, the 
FBI, and eventually the whole military. 
When reminded that he was running for 
that office he wished to abolish, Winn gave 
an answer that shouldnt be confused with 
the sounds a patient makes while under 
heavy anasthesia.
Winn nervously smoked cigarettes and 
played with his lighter while preaching the 
Workers League ideaology of Trotskyism and
Marxism. He called for the creation of a 
government comprised and operated by the 
working class.
Referring to a leading magazine on bank
ing, that he said cost about $200.00 a 
subscription, Winn proceeded to explain 
how the whole banking system of the US is 
a terminal crisis. His solution to the pro
blem  leave all future bank transaction up 
to the guidance and approval of the work
ing class.
Graduate students plan 
"political" extravaganza
By SUE SMITH and 
BECKY FREELAND
Special to The Tartan
If you have had more than enough blowby-blow reports of Reagan-Bush and 
Mondale-Ferraro, the Graduate Student 
Organization (GSO) has the perfect party for 
you. The Are You Tired of the Presidential 
Campaign? party will be held on October 
20 from 8-12 pm. It will recreate all the red, 
white, and blue splendor of the National 
Republican and Democratic conventions  
complete with live music by the dance band, 
Red Hot and Blue.
Your fellow graduate students will be 
replacing those media-worn faces you see 
every night, in a race for the Presidency in 
a mock election. If you would like to run,
there is still time to come up with a platform 
on some of the pressing issues that concern 
the graduate student faction: nuclear arms 
control, beer, ERA, education, beer: 
unemployment, and beer.
Send your platforms through campus mail 
to: GSO c/o Skibo activities desk. Aliases 
may be used to protect your reputation. 
Read them in the next issue of the GSO 
newsletter.
Tickets are $2.00 for this night of partisan 
revelry and include music, munchies, and 
libations (beer, wine, punch, soda). You c 
get them at the Skibo information desk 
mission at the door will be $3.00.
You must be of drinking age to attend. 
Any additional questions? Contact Kristin 
Susser at 931-0617.
u car
i. AdCollectors meet tomorrow
continued from page 7
organized and categorized listing of all of 
Bowers works. Q. David Bower is president 
of the A.N. A. and is a favorite of Sullivans.
Though just a hobby, Sullivan takes 
numismatics seriously. He has a small com
pany which buys and sells numismatic 
literature to many individuals within the 
United States. These dealings help him ac
quire new pieces for his collection and pre
sent certain monetary advantages. Still, he 
tries to keep the business away from the per
sonal aspects. He feels the club will be 4 
good way to have fun with his hobby and 
hopes that others agree. Sullivan hopes tfji 
get Pittsburgh involved, especially CMU.
Are you interested? For those that are, th< 
first gathering of the CMU Numismatii 
Club will begin at 6:30 p.m. in Skibo, Roo n 
12 on Wednesday, October 9.
Winner will fly to Daytona
continued from page 7
to hemophilia research. The people from the 
foundation were very happy to hear about 
it. Im glad we can do some good.
Garcia also adds a hidden benefit. The 
person who makes it through the course 
fastest and safest will be our winner. He/she
will be flown to Daytona Beach to compet 
for over $20,000 in prizes and scholarships 
IFC hopes to see a good student turn-out 
Registration begins at 5:00 pm today am 
tomorrow. Racing events last until 11:00 pif 
both days and are held in Morewoof 
Gardens parking lot.
Are you considering professional school?
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
JOHN F. KENNEDY 
SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT
Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs.
Come Learn About Harvard's Two-Year Master's 
Program in Public Policy, Leading to either 
the Master in Public Policy or 
City and Regional Planning Degree.
MEET WITH:JUDY KUGEL
Director of Career Services
DATE: 
CONTACT:
Monday, October 15 at 2 and 3 
CAREER PLACEMENT OFFICE
All Students, All Majors, All Years Welcome! 
jotnt Degree Programs Offered with 
Harvard's other Professional Schools.
Generous Cross-Registration Privileges with other Schools.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Dead-pan delivery
Lou Reed all talk, 
no action at Mosque
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor 
Lou Reed may be the rock and roll 
animal, but his recent performance at the 
Syria Mosque showed him only a sloth.
most of the songs Reed and his 
four-man band performed were 
Reed rarely left center stage 
barely moved at all.
Of course, Reed currently isnt 
on-stage antics. To his fans, it is 
his lyrics and his music that are most im
portant. In this respect, his concert was just 
what his fans ordered; all performance, no 
showmanship.
There is nothing wrong with a good live 
cover of a familiar piece of music, but part 
of the aura of a concert is the fact that a per
former should entertain, not just play. 
Maybe too much was expected, because 
Reed certainly did play.
In fact, Reed played and sang, which led 
to the most surprising aspect of the whole 
show. Although the sound level was verging 
on the pain threshold, and the keyboards 
sounded more like airplanes than anything 
else, Reeds husky baritone was as clear as 
a bell. Every word was understandable, every 
feeling was clear. Which makes Reed a rari
ty. As perhaps the father of new wave and 
punk, Reed also has a lighter side, which was 
demonstrated by songs such as Legendary 
Love" and Satellite. The latter best ex
emplified the mood for the evening; starting 
slow, mellow and sensitive, the song suddenly 
breaks into a raucous wailing jam near the 
end. With Lou Reed, every song was slow 
and mellow, or else it was wild and heavy.
There were several highlighted songs. First 
was Sweet Jane", which Reed kicked off his 
hour-and-a-half set with. Later in the show, 
Reed and company did TUm Out the 
Lights, which with its funky, moveable 
rhythm, surprisingly didn't get Reed to even
move his feet.
Of course, the highlight was Reeds 1972 
hit, Take a Walk on the Wild Side,during which he loosened up a bit, talking to 
the audience, snapping fingers, and smiling. 
But when the song was over, it was back to 
being a straight man.
Besides disappointment with the lack of 
visual entertainment, there were some ma
jor disappointments musically as well. 
Already mentioned was the sound level, 
which left nearly everyone with a buzz (in 
their ears) after the show. Additionally, 
Reeds most recent single, I Love You, 
Suzanne, was resigned to a half-hearted two 
minute version.
The concert was, however, worthwhile. 
Here was a man who set down the basics for 
much of todays music. Its not often that one 
gets to see a legend, and so its hard to be 
critical. Seeing Lou Reed was definitely a 
new sensation."
Johansen and his band will be appearing Saturday at 9 pm in the CMU Gym, 
is sponsored by the Activities Board, Student Dormitory Counand the InterFraternity Councils Greek/Non-Greek Involvement Committee.
Architects display variety of talents at Forbes Gallery
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Trtan
The second student show of the year at 
Forbes Gallery features the art and architec
ture of Mike Fontaine, Robin Kholes, Laura 
Scheerer, and Scott Vieth. These four ar
chitecture students are displaying their in
dividual works with the intent of showing 
how a work or project progresses into a final 
form. The show opens this evening from 7 
to 9.
Mike Fontaine is exhibiting a drawing, 2 
woodcuts, and a photograph in addition to 
some of his architectual drawings. Fontaine 
believes that he can express himself in a 
completely different way in more traditional 
forms of art than in architecture,
In architecture every move we make has 
to be sort of rational, bound by certain
specifics, says Fontaine. In art, I can go 
crazy with whatever my image is. In his 
woodcut Tension, Fontaine contrasts the 
parallel images of a man and a post against 
the muscular tension of a sinewy landscape. 
A lot of times Im looking for constrictions 
in art, like the kinds of things I have in ar
chitecture," says Fontaine. I throw that out 
and go from the gut; I look for textures and 
feelings.
Robin Kholes works mainly from abstract 
images to create her photography and 
ceramics as well as her architecture. Kholes 
feels that her abstract ideas manifest 
themselves in simple forms and composi
tions.
Kholes is particularly interested in show
ing her work in order to receive audience 
reaction. I'm interested in the social interMostly Modern" Naharin show opens at Heinz Hall
The Pittsburgh Dance Council will pre
sent two performance by Ohad 
Naharin and Mari Kajiwara on October 
12 and 13 at 8 pm at the Stephen Foster 
Theatre in Oakland.
Dancer/choreographer Ohad Naharin 
was born in Israel and began his dancing 
career late" at age 22 after three years in 
the Israeli army. He worked in gymnastics 
and performed as a singer (he still sings,
plays guitar and writes his own music) and 
got his start in Israel with the Batsheva 
Dance Company. He also studied at the 
Juilliard School in New York City and the 
Martha Graham School.
While dancing with the Martha Graham 
company, Martha Graham was so impress
ed with Ohad that she created the role of 
Esau for him in hew work entitled "Jacobs 
Dream for Batsheva in 1974, and called him
Ohad Naharin and Sherry Lanier dances the Rain episode of Ohad Naharin and 
Dancers. Calligraphy by Wang Fang-yu.
a natural dancer, the son of praise 
Graham reserves for very few. Ohad also 
danced m Europe with Maurice Bejart for 
a year, and still performs on occasion with 
Israels Bat Dor company.
With Ohad for his Pittsburgh perfor
mances will be his wife, Mari Kajiwara, a 
principal dancer with the Alvin Ailey 
American Dance Theater. Her performance 
in Elisa Montes duet called Treading last 
March when the Pittsburgh Dance Council 
brought the Ailey company to Pittsburgh 
was accorded a standing ovation from the 
enthusiastic audience at Heinz Hall. Dancer 
Iris Hoffman Frenkel will also perform in the 
program featuring works choreographed by 
Ohad Naharin.
Tickets for Ohad Naharin and 
Dancers are $6, $8, and $9 and are 
available through the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council at Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Avenue, 
Pittsburgh PA 15222 (412) 355-0330. These 
performances are part of the fall dance series 
called Mostly Modem, which showcases 
choreographers and companies m the 
forefront of the modern movement. The 
final performance of the Mostly Modern 
series will be the Utah Repertory 
Dance Theatre, December 7 and 8.
The Pittsburgh Dance Council is a non
profit presenting and service organization for 
dance and is currently celebrating its 15th 
Anniversary. Performances by Ohad 
Naharin and Dancers are made 
possible in part by funding through the Na
tional Endowment for the Arts and the 
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts.
action between people and my work. I want 
to know how they interpret my abstractions.
Kholes frequently finds forms repeating 
themselves in her work. In a set of unfinished 
tea cups, Kholes solved the problem of 
creating a sculptural rather than functional 
tea cup in an architectual way. The interiors 
of the cups bear a resemblance to a stair
case, and image that repeats itself in some 
of Kholes architectural photographs.
An interest in pure form is also evident 
in Kholes photographic studies of egg shells, 
where the shells are placed in different en
vironments to achieve specific shapes. Like 
her fellow exhibitors, Kholes desires to show 
the process of a piece from concept to work 
in progress to finished product. I want to 
be able to explain what motivated a work 
or idea, what something symbolizes, to ex
plain a work in graphics; make it so people 
can understand, says Kholes.
Laura Scheerer is also showing architec
tural drawings along with painting and 
ceramics. Scheerer feels that her painting 
has stemmed from three ideas. By using oils 
in layers, Scheerer attempts to achieve a 
transparent quality to her painting. Second
ly, she is interested in putting a frame within 
the picture to concentrate the focus. Third, 
Scheerer likes to put surprises along the 
edges of her paintings, in an attempt "not 
to finish the painting as expected.
In Looking Out a Window, Scheerer 
combines two of her ideas transparency 
and frameto achieve a specific observation 
she wanted to make. Scheerer believes her 
ceramics express something different form 
her painting. In painting I think more 
technically; in ceramics I think gesturally.
I can put myself in the situation, recreate 
the situation, in ceramics," says Scheerer. In 
Dreaming, a small clay figure, Scheeerer 
exhibits this gestural capacity, and, quite 
simply, a love of molding clay in my hands.
Scott Vieth is exhibiting photography and 
a woodcut as well as his architectural draw
ings. Many of Vieths photos, including those 
of a stairway in a church, deal with the 
abstraction of forms.
I capture emotion with images  thats 
why most of my photos have dealt with 
forms, says Vieth. In his woodcut, Vieth 
studies the form of a helicopter, taking the 
shape of the machine and allowing it to 
metamorphasize into a looming insect, Vieth 
says the image stems from the vision of 
helicopters he had seen in movies on Viet 
continued on page 23

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanOctober 9, 1984
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
Keyboardist and vocalist Robert Lamm, 
after two songs off of Chicago 17, spoke to 
the crowd. Were going to do some of the 
songs that got us where we are now. 
With this concession, Chicago 
began a concert that was a 
beautiful blend of mellow seven
ties hits combined with the 
somewhat harder Chicago sounds of the last 
two albums.
Chicago has a unique sound, using brass 
and saxophones to accentuate an almost 
jazz-rock sound. This, along with the ex
traordinary voice of vocalist/bassist Peter 
Cetera has led the band to a long history of 
success.
The band includes muscular trombonist 
James Pankow, saxophonist Walter 
Parazaider, drummer Danny Seraphine, 
Lamm, Cetera, and newest member Kenny 
Cetera, Peters brother. Kenny plays the per
cussion instruments as well as the keyboards.
The band drew a wide variety of fans from 
many generations. Seventeen albums ago 
they started as the Chicago Transit Authori
ty, but before long were known simply as
Chicago.
Although not having the stage show of 
other bands of their caliber, they made the 
crowd feel good. They looked as if they 
were having fun on stage, despite the 
number of times they have performed in the 
past. The infusion of new members in re
cent years seem to have given the group a 
newer, more vital sound.
No matter what the sound was, the crowd 
loved it. Whether it was Stay the Night, 
a harder hit off the most recent album, or 
If You Leave Me Now, a ballad from their 
tenth album, screams were heard all over the 
packed three-quarter house setting of the 
continued on page 23
Convention to feature other worldly guests
October 12-14, the second annual Tri-Con 
II Science Fiction/Fantasy Media Conven
tion takes off at the Holiday Inn Airport.
Science Fiction, Fantasy, and Media fans 
from all over the country will converge on 
the Holiday Inn to meet actors Thom 
Christopher, best known in science fiction 
circles for his portryal of Hawk on the 
Buck Rogers in the 25th Century television
THE ESSEX
122 Meyran  Oakland 681-1944 
(corner Forbes  2nd floor)
Oakland's Department Store
 Bedspreads  Posters  Incense  Lanterns Candles  Window Blinds  Cards (sweet to risqu)  Essential Oils and Body Prodcuts by the Ounce  Beads  Baskets  Lightweight Furniture Backpacks
series, and Mark Lenard, best remembered 
for his portrayal of Sarek, ambassador from 
the planet Vulcan and Spocks father on the 
Star Trek television series and this summers 
major motion picture Star Trek III - The 
Search for Spock  Both television series are 
now in syndication on WPGH Channel 53.
Another special guest will be awardwinning costume designer Sally Fink, win
ner of numerous World Convention costume 
competitions.
Convention Co-Chairmen Debra Ander
son and Trinette Kern report that Tri-Con 
II will have something for everyone. There 
will be classic science fiction films, as well 
as what has come to be known as schlock 
films, the worst movies ever made, and the 
imfamous Star Trek bloopers.
Highlights already planned include an art 
show and auction, a dealers room, Medieval 
feast and tournament demonstrations
featuring members of the internationally 
known Society for Creative Anachronism, 
wargaming, Dungeons and Dragons, and 
filksinging.
On Saturday, Tri-Con Press Release night 
the masquerade party Space-Time Caberet 
will include a costume competition from the 
past, present, and future, a variety show 
with skits and solo performances, and even 
a slave auction, all designed to make the 
Restaurant at the End of the Universe look 
quiet. Of course, there will be panels, 
workshops, autograph sessions, and a wide 
variety of programming going on 
throughout the weekend.
Tri-Con II tickets and information are 
available at Phantom of the Attic on Craig 
Street in Oakland, or from the Tri-Con II 
Chairman, c/o 1616 Davidson Street, Aliquippa, PA 15003. Attendance is limited so 
advance registration is suggested.
tlvCMU
Come observe
*The moon 
*The planets
* Stars
* Galaxies
* Nebulae
. . . using high quality 
astronomical instruments 
Trips include
*Buhl Science Center
* Allegheny Observatory
* Out-of-town
. trips to observe 
deep-sky objects
ASTRONOMY
CLUB
MEETINGS
SUNDAYS
8:30 pm at DH A330
Jazz-rock Chicago mixes 
old and new in concert

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1984The TartanPage 11
mon 12-6 am
t U e S 6-9 am
1:30-3 pm 
Wed MID-3 am 
Sat 6-9 am^at 5: 30 pm 
& !j e e d bac kjNOON- pm 
10.30 am  4 pmhistory professor 
w.andrew achenbaum
WRCT Pittsburgh presents X plus special guest this Wednesday, October 10 at 8 pm 
in the Syria Mosque Ballroom. The ballroom provides a unique opportunity to get 
close to the band, while allowing space to get up and dance. General admission tickets 
are $10.00, and are available at all National Record Marts.____________________
WE'RE NOT THE SAME CORPORATION WE WERE A YEAR AGO. BUT THEN. YOU'RE NOT THE SAME PERSON YOU WERE A YEAR AGO.
Weve both grown. Weve both 
changed. For the better.Thats why we want to talk to you about career opportunities at Bell 
Atlantic. Challenging new manage
ment positions, many of which we couldnt have offered a year ago.Because they didnt exist a 
year ago.You see, Bell Atlantic is a brand new corporation, less than a year old, 
bom of the divestiture by AT&T of its 
operating companies.In our case, those companies are 
Bell of Pennsylvania; Diamond State Telephone serving Delaware; New 
Jersey Bell; and C&P Telephone, serving Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia and Washington, D.C.
In every one of these were looking 
for highly motivated people who have
demonstrated leadership and strong academic performance in areas of study ranging from engineering, computer 
science and mathematics to accounting, economics and finance to marketing 
and business administration.If it strikes you that were uniquely 
qualified to meet your career goals, be sure to contact your career planning 
and placement office now to arrange 
for an interview.Like you, we have a lot more to 
offer this year.
 Bed Atlantic
Ball of Pannaytvania Diamond State Tafaphona
Naw Jaraay Ball CSPTWaphona
BELL ATLANTIC WILL BE ON CAMPUS 11/7. 
SIGN UP BY 10/18.
An equal opportunity employer.
Counterfeiters reap only benefit of illegal practice
the appearance of the cover insert than the 
quality of the sound, it is easy to see that the 
quality of counterfeit tapes is generally worse 
than that of legal cassettes.
Although most record companies regard 
bootlegs as little more than a nuisance, they 
take a much harder stand when it comes to 
counterfeits. They realize that bootlegs do 
not affect the sales of legal recordings since 
if a fan is serious enough about an artist to 
buy a bootleg of unknown quality, he is 
almost sure to have bought every legal album 
released by that artist.
Counterfeits, however, are directly ex
ploitive by diverting money that would have 
gone to both the record company and the 
artist. The consumer also gets an inferior 
product.
Despite the difficulty in identifying the 
average counterfeit, an increasing number 
of counterfeiters are being caught and 
charged. Yet the market is still being poison
ed by large numbers of counterfeit albums 
and tapes.
This has prompted several record com
panies to place small, hard to counterfeit 
stickers on the comer of the jackets to iden
tify them as legal. This effort has met with 
only limited success since these stickers were 
eventually imitated, and many retailers 
never bother to check their incoming albums 
and tapes.
If you ever find a recording in a store that 
you think might be counterfeit, dont buy it. 
Get a different copy or even go to another 
store and be sure that you are getting what 
you pay for. I cant tell you to report any 
potentially spurious recordings to the 
authorities, but I can warn you that they are 
out there.
By AL DATRI
Tartan Staffwriter
Have you ever been looking through 
albums in a store and come across two copies 
of the same album with slightly different 
covers? Perhaps the colors on one are a lit
tle less bright, and the printing is a little less 
sharp. Maybe the picture on the cover is off 
center. If you noticed this sort of difference, 
there is the possibility that you were holding 
a counterfeit.
Do not confuse counterfeits with bootlegs. 
A bootleg is an illegally manufactured recor
ding that was never legally released. A 
counterfeit, however, is a direct copy of a 
legally released album or tape. A counterfeit 
will have the same cover and the same songs
as the legal album, but was not made by the 
artists legal record company.
Counterfeiting usually takes place on a 
larger scale than bootlegging. A bootlegger 
has a limited market for his product, since 
he is selling blatently illegal merchandise 
and cannot really go to purchaser for K mart 
and pass off his product as the normal 
album.
A counterfeiter, however, is selling what 
looks (at least superficially) like the normal, 
legal album or tape. Since a purchasing 
agent for any store is trying to obtain mer
chandise at the lowest price, he will jump 
at the low price a counterfeiter can of
fer. With the profits, the counterfeiter can 
purchase his own record pressing or tape
duplicating equipment.
Although it is almost impossible to 
mistake a bootleg for a legal album, it can 
be difficult to distinguish a counterfeit from 
a legal album or tape. Some counterfeits 
have a word misspelled on the cover or label, 
or use different color inks. Some have 
dropped the address of the record company 
from the label, and others have added 
borders or changed the label.
Although most counterfeits are made of 
currently popular albums, some are made 
of valuable collectors items. Examples of the 
latter are the three albums released by The 
Nazz, Todd Rundgrens first band. These 
albums were released in the late 1960s, and 
have become near impossible to find, bring
ing prices of up to $50 for the normal album 
and up to $90 for promotional colored vinyl 
disks.
Since the contents of a counterfeit and an 
original are identical, one might think that 
the sound quality of a counterfeit would be 
just as good as that of the original. This is 
often not the case. The usual counterfeiter 
will buy a legal pressing of an album and 
transfer it to tape. From this master tape he 
may cut a master disk, and proceed to press 
disks, or he may run off cassette copies.
With the recent boom in pre-recorded 
cassette sales, larger numbers of counterfeit 
cassettes have entered the market. It is both 
cheaper and faster for a counterfeiter to 
make cassette copies than press disks. Most 
commercial cassettes are recorded at up to 
128 times normal playing speed, and are 
recorded onto tapes that would cost the con
sumer around 70 cents to buy in a store.
When one considers that the average 
counterfeiter would be more concerned with
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside 
682-4063
Mon. Fri. 99 Sat. 95 
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
Lewis'Creative 
Hair Team
WRCT 88.3 FM
p r/a n t

---------------------------------------------------

HOMECOMING 84
Saturday, Oct. 13
The Activities Board, the Student 
Dormitory Council and the IFC 
Greek/Non-Greek Involvement Commit
tee cordially invite ALL STUDENTS to:
9:00 pm 
DAVI 
JOHAN
A Barbeque on the Cut
11:30 am  2:00 pm FREE with CMU student ID (no scheduled rain date)
A Dance/Concert in the Gym8:00 pm  Dance Begins
Music by a Local Radio Personality
Partially Funded by Student Activities Fee
and his band hit the 
for a rocking good time
FREE FREE
Following the concert: 
Dance the Night Away...

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Intramural sports program offers diversion for students
The Intramural Program sponsors 33 ac
tivities throughout the fall and spring 
semesters. Most of the athletic activities are 
divided into Major, Intermediate and Minor 
Lges., with places for co-rec and all-female 
teams. An innovation being reactivated this 
year is the All Sports Trophy (suggested by 
IM Board President Rob Fleischman). A 
team gains points for winning matches in 
different sports (based on which league the 
team plays), and the team with the most 
points at the end of the year wins the trophy. 
However, a person should not feel compell
ed to play only what is being offered. New 
activities may be started by submitting a 
proposal to the IM Board. The activity will 
be judged on feasibility, interest, safety, and 
use of facilities. New activities being in
troduced this year are floor hockey and 
pinochle.
The Intramural Program is headed by 
Director Earl J. Birdy, but the actual ad
ministration of the program is handled by 
the student run Intramural Board. The 
board is comprised of seven representatives 
from the fraternities, three from the dorms, 
one grad student and one womens rep. Of
ficers of the Board are President Rob 
Fleischman, Vice President Pete Visconti, 
and Secretary Gabriella Goncalves. Mr. Bir
dy attributes much of the sucess of the IM 
Program to the fact that it is a student-run 
program. However, the program does have 
its difficulties. First and foremost is the pro
blem of officials. It is difficult to find enough 
interested and trained officials for the large 
number of games. Fleischman suggested that 
the job of officiating be made into a workstudy job. Currently it is volunteer work, 
with players taking turns officiating other 
teams games. Another problem the IM Pro
gram faces is the lack of facility space. Var
sity teams have priority for athletic facilities, 
continued on page 20
38-8 win looks easy
Tartans able to dominatetotally for firsttime
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
Domination.
It is nothing special to Tartan fans, who 
have seen this often over the last 1V4 years. 
But this year, the power of the CMU foot
ball team had never really taken over 
another team.
Until Saturday. CMU defeated the Thiel 
Tomcats, 38-8, in a game that featured the 
Tartan offensive and defensive lines blowing 
Tomcat linemen right off the ball.
Thiel had come into the game with a 3-1 
record after losing 20 straight games over the 
last three years. CMU beat them 50-11 last 
year. CMU had an identical 3-1 record, their 
only loss to Bucknell.
CMU remains tied with Washington and 
Jefferson for the lead in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference with 3-0 conference 
records. W&J was ranked eighth in Division 
III coming into this weeks action, but lost 
to 15th ranked and undefeated Case Western 
(5-0). CMU was unranked.
The Tartan running game was the feature 
on this day, highlighted by a 62 yard 
touchdown run by T.D. Smith. Tech rolled 
for 379 yards on the ground as a team, led 
by Smith, who had 118 yards, and fullback 
Anthony Collaros, who had 88 yards on 20 
carries and three touchdowns. Vic Boland, 
who was bothered by the slight shoulder 
separation which kept him out of the Hiram 
game, gained 53 yards, as did Mike 
Garverick.
The runners werent alone though. Three 
Tartan quarterbacks combined for 156 yards 
passing, highlighted by Nick Klipas first 
career completion, a beautiful 40 yard bomb
to Boland who was tackled on the one yard 
line. Klipa sneaked the ball over for the final 
TD of the game and the first of his CMU 
career.
The defense continued the domination of 
the Tomcats. Jim Miale, who came into the 
game just 40 yards shy of the Thiel career 
passing yardage record, was figured to be a 
lock to break that record. If the Tartans have 
shown a weakness, it was in their pass 
defense.
Miale will have to wait until next week. 
He completed eight of 17 passes, but four 
of those were into Tartan hands. Miale had 
just 33 yards, seven yards short of the record. 
Reserve QB Gary Stringer was brought into 
the game in the third quarter, and two 
minutes later, Thiel had their only score. 
Stringer completed seven of 14 for 164 yards 
on the day. He was also the second leading 
Thiel rusher, with 29 yards on four carries, 
not including an 11 yard loss on a sack.
Dave Zito and Mike Hensel came into the 
game ranked one-two in the PAC in passing 
efficiency. The passing game isnt amazing 
and overpowering, but only because the run
ning game is so potent. Hensel led the Tar
tans 53 yards in one-minute-eight seconds 
at the end of the first half to give the Tar
tans a 24-0 halftime lead.
Tom Bihler, the Thiel halfback who had 
led the conference in rushing, was held to 
just 34 yards on nine carries. The Tartans 
ran for 312 more yards than the Tomcats, a 
totally overpowering figure. Smith got his 118 
yards on just nine carries, a 13.1 yard 
average.
Roger Roble caught three more passes, 
giving him 18 receptions on the seasofi. At
this pace, Roble should be a lock for 
Academic All-American.
The victory sets up a confrontation with 
W&J two weeks from now which could be for 
the conference championship. But in Chuck 
Klausings one week at a time system, you 
can be sure the Tartans will be ready for 
Grove City next week.
Tartan Tattlers-Careful this time. .. Next 
weeks game with the Grove City Wolverines 
begins at 2 pm, the delayed start due to the
Homecoming festivities which will take 
place. .. CMU defeated Grove City 24-0 last 
year... David Elias had two interceptions, 
the first two of his career. Elias, a 
sophomore, caught one interception in the 
end zone. He was joined by Leo Caddens 
first interception. Richard Fabian, Tim 
Griffith, and Joe Orlowski also picked off 
passes.. . Collaros was the player-of-theweek. .. Rob Fleischman hit his third con
secutive field goal.
tage of IM activities.
The total number of people participating 
in the current fall activities (including touch 
football, tennis, golf, cross country, water 
polo, chess, soccer, and co-rec volleyball) is 
up over the total number of participants at 
the same time last year.
photo by Neil Greenblum
Intramural sports such as football, pictured here, provide an opportunity for CMU students to get exercise and compete at the 
same time.Harriers edge closer to NCAA record
By DOUG GALBI
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Cross-Country team closed out 
its dual meet season undefeated, as it over
came Hiram, Geneva, and Duquesne last 
Saturday. The 3 victories give Coach Gary 
Meckleys runners 62 consecutive victories, 
just seven short of the NCAA record of 69. 
With their latest conquests tallied, the team
ended this season with a perfect 6  0 record.
For the second week in a row Mark Sulecki 
lead the Tartan charge with a winning time 
of 25:59 to become the first runner this 
season to break twenty-six minutes on the 
Tartans home course.
The rest of the Tartan top five crossed the 
finish line to string together third through 
sixth place and assure the victory for CMU.
Duane Galbi finished in 26:23 for third 
while fellow Tartan Dean Danowski, boun
cing back from his injury, finished a mere 
four seconds later. Tony Scarpelli finished 12 
seconds behind Danowski and Bob Dusch 
crossed after Scarpelli to finish out the Tar
tans top five.
In the previous weeks action the cross 
continued on page 15
By THOMAS MENNER
Tartan Staffwriter
One of the more interesting diversions 
available to CMU students is the Intramural 
Program. The IM Program sponsors 
everything from basketball and racquetball 
to table tennis and darts for students, grad
students, faculty and staff. Camegie-Mellon 
has one of the largest and most diverse col
legiate intramural programs, with 60-70 per 
cent of the male students participating in at 
least one activity. The increase in the 
number of co-rec and womens teams in
dicates that females are also taking advan---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 9, 1984
FOOTBALL
Alan Mayr 
Charlie Lock head 
Doug Anderson 
Owen Raata 
Neal Frink 
Ted Anderer 
Alex Tomlinson 
John McNamara 
Kevin Jung
CMU
Thiel
GCU
Bethany
Hiram
Overall Team Offense
ItPYDSAVG
CMU11187761894378.8
W&J72711201847369.4
JCU9085111419283.8
Thiel5967501346269.2
Bethan5714491020255.0
Grove
City356478827206.8
Hiram193507700175.0
Overall Team Defense* ?.. . ........
lilllll.x Cv .Jf \ x V 'RpYDSAVG
Hiram562326888222.0
GroveAu >.  ?i
City435524959239.8
JCU9484821430286.0
CMU564re?1531306.2
Bethan v4757641239309.0
W&J6299831612S22.4
Thiel7748621636327.2
Womens Tennis 
Womens Field Hockey 
Women's Volleyball
VOTE FOR
MR. & MISS VARSITY
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10th 
SKIBO GREY MATTER 
8:30 am  8:00 pm
Nominees:
Terri Glueck 
Maria Rehnstrom 
Pam Snyder 
Mary Stawouy 
Joyce Teolis
Mark Collins 
Morris Hauser 
Mike Hsu 
Lew Korzeniwsky 
Anton Nimblett

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1984The TartanPage 15
Rugby, baseball, IM sports fill much of schedule
continued from page 13
country team convincingly beat Grove City 
and Robert Morris at home among the 
Schenley Pk. trails. Grove City, a newcomer 
to the PAC which has had a strong cross
country program, proved to be no match for 
the Tartan harriers this year. CMU was able 
to place six men before the first Grove City 
runner crossed the line.
Junior Mark Sulecki and freshman stand
out Paul C amine lead the Tartan charge as 
they crossed the finish line together in 26:10, 
a full 15 seconds faster than the winning 
time two weeks ago against Bethany.
Behind the lead of Sulecki and Camine 
who both sped to personal bests, the rest of 
the Tartans ran exceptionally well. Duane 
Galbi and Dean Danowski both improved by 
over 30 seconds from their inital taste of 
3-mile hill two weeks ago, to finish 3rd and 
4th respectively.
Tony Scarpelli finished out the top five 
with a strong finish that put him just a se
cond behind Danowski.
Sophomore Tom Felmey ran one of the 
best races of his two year career to cross the 
finish as the Tartans sixth man and 11th 
overall in the time of 27:10, while Mike Cant
way showing much improvement over his 
best race finished out the Tartan top seven 
with a 13th place finish.
Next week the team travels to Fairmont 
State College for the Fairmont State 
Invitational.
The CMU Womens Rugby team ran all 
over Cal State last Saturday, shutting them
out 23-0.
The Crou found themselves face to face 
with women easily twice their size, but
Pittsburgh Dance Council presentsOhadNaharin
with Mari Kqiwara
(principal dancer with AMa Alley)
OCT. 12 & 13. 8 P.M.
STEPHEN FOSTER THEATRE, OAKLAND
TICKETS: SR. SR. $ RN SALE NOV. PHONE ORDERS: CALL PK (412) 355-0330. VISA/NC ACCEPTER.
When workers aren t there business doesn t work
Protect your employees, your company, and yourself from the personal suffering and financial loss of cancer call your local unit of the American Cancer Society and ask for their free pamphlet, Helping Your Employees to Protect Them selves Against Cancer " Start your company on a policy of good health today'
managed to step lively and elude defenders 
again and again.
The entire game showed the rowdy spec
tators spectacular kicking action done with 
ease by kicker and fullback Pam Mott.
In the first half, Mott sailed the ball 
through the goal post for a two point con
version and a three point penalty kick. Ad
ding four points to the pile was Shannon 
Hansen, who ran through the Cal State 
women for a try. The score at the half was 
9-0.
The Crous strength held up in the second 
i half as three more trys were made, and Mott 
nailed the ball for another conversion. 
Pauline Wen, Margie Long, and Mary Mur
phy each sprinted the ball into the tryzone, 
outmaneuvering the Cal State women for the 
three trys.
In mens action, the Eggmen found 
themselves in two hard-hitting games also 
against Cal State.
In the A game, John Longe ran the ball 
for two trys. Scrumhalf Frank Meehan also 
scored a try and Willy Rueda kicked the ball 
through the goal post for a conversion. 
However, Cal State took the game 26-14.
The Eggmen were shut out in the B game.
The team will be on the road again next 
weekend, as they travel to the South Park 
Fairgrounds for the American Rugby Union 
Tournament.
The CMU baseball club was defeated 
Thursday by the Community College-Beaver 
Campus Titans by a score of 9-5, after rally
ing from a six-run deficit. A three-run rally 
in the bottom of the seventh inning put the 
Tartans to within three runs, but they never 
gained any more ground on the CCBC lead.
CMU had one of its better games offen
sively, with catcher Rich Theg leading the 
way. Theg hit two singles and a double, and 
walked and scored twice. Bill Yankovitch 
the center fielder, wasnt too far behind 
Theg, going 3 for 4, including a triple, and 
racked up two RBIs to go with another pair 
of runs scored.
Rich Hall, the CMU hurler, took the loss. 
However, he was only charged with four 
earned runs, the other five due to errors.
CMU first scored in the third inning. Rich 
Theg scored on an error by the CCBC short
stop Steve Antolic on a ground ball by Tar
tan captain John Spanos, and Bill 
Yankovitch touched home on a double steal, 
a play more frequently used by Tartan 
opponents.
In the seventh inning, with the score 8-2 
against CMU, the Tartans moved to within 
striking distance with a three run outburst. 
Bill Yankovitch knocked Theg and John 
Chang, the freshman second baseman, 
home with a triple, and then scored on a 
sacrifice fly.
CMU has one more home game left in this 
fall season, a makeup game to be played on 
October 8 at 2:30 PM, at Mellon Park.

Intramural sports continue to move in full 
swing. The golf and cross-country meets 
have already been held, and sports in season 
include touch football, tennis, co-rec 
volleyballwater polo, and chess. Schedules 
for all current sports are available in the IM 
office, Room 101, Gym. Standings will ap
pear in next weeks Tartan.
Several sports will be starting soon. This 
week is the last call for entries in bowling, 
racquetball, and team table tennis. There 
is plenty of room for those who wish to com
pete, but the due date for entries is this 
Thursday, October 11. Students are urged 
to get their entries in immediately.
Volleyball (non-co-rec) and soccer entries 
are due by next Thursday, October 18. 
Those who wish to form teams have just over 
a week to submit entries.
The next meeting of the IM board will be 
Thursday, October 18, at 12:30 p.m. in the 
IM office. Students interested in the meeting 
or any IM sport should call Mr. E.J. Birdy, 
IM director, at his gym office.
#This section was compiled by Tartan staff - 
writers Duane Galbi and John Friedman, 
Tartan Contributing Editor Pauline Wen, 
and Tartan Asst. Sports Editor Don Eggert.
MICROSOFT WIUL BE ON CAMPUS 
OCTOBER 15,1984 TO INTERVIEW 
EXCEPTIONAL SYSTEMS DESIGN 
PROGRAMMERS
Microsoft Corporation develops the leading edge in microcomputer systems 
software. Our BASIC is world renowned. Our XENIX and MS-DOS operating systems 
have computer companies and others chomping at the bit. We design state of the 
art systems software.
We need programmers to work on Operating Systems, Compilers (FORTRAN, 
COBOL, Pascal, BASIC, C), Data Base Management Systems, Word Processing, 
Interactive Systems, Graphics and more.
Our OEM customer base is a Who's Who of the hardware business (IBM, Apple, 
Radio Shack, Intel, Tektronix). As new systems like the IBM PC and new processors, 
like the 68000 are developed, Microsoft's programmers get their hands on the 
machines before they go into production. So your hardware suggestions and 
software innovations during R&D become part of the computers of the future.
Microsoft provides the best systems programming work environment
 all the high-level hardware (DEC-20, PDP11, VAX, SUN 68000 machines) and 
software development tools you'll need, in a
 small company with lots of interaction and sharing of ideas and methods where
 you can develop your full potential.
And to make a good thing better, Microsoft is located in the Great Pacific Northwest 
with
 mountains, skiing, ocean, desert, rain forest, rivers and lakes all with easy reach
 major cultural sports, social and commercial activities fifteen minutes away in 
Seattle.
We are looking for exceptional software design programmers  those with 
intelligence, drive, and a commitment to excellence.
We want programmers who will create Microsoft High Performance Software. 
Microsoft offers an excellent compensation and benefits package. Jo Ann Rahal, 
Technical Recruiter, Dept. WZ, MICROSOFT CORPORATION. 10700 NorthupWay, Box 
97200, Bellevue, Washington 98009. We are an equal opportunity employer.
We will be interviewing oncampusMonday,October15,1984.Pleasecontactyour career placement office for schedule information.
MICROSOFT
High Performance Software
I

---------------------------------------------------

HOMECOMING WEEKEND 84 
OCTOBER 12th & 13th
FRIDAY
4:006:00 pm
Corn on the Cut  FREE! 
Sponsored by SARC 
Funded by Student Activities Fee
9:00 pm
Torchlight Parade 
Bonfire, Pep Rally
6:00, 8:30, 11:00 pm
MOVIE  SUDDEN IMPACT 
Sponsored by AB 
Funded by Student Activities Fee
SATURDAY 
11:00 am  2:00 am
Student Lunch on the Cut  FREE! 
Sponsored by SDC & IFC 
Ptly. Funded by Student Activities Fee
1:00 pm
Homecoming PARADE
2:00 pm
TARTAN FOOTBALL vs. Grove City
Halftime
Mr./Miss Varsity Competition
6:00, 8:30, 11:00 pm
MOVIE  TBA 
Sponsored by SDC 
Funded by the Dorm Fee
9:00 pm  1:00 am
DAVID JOHANSEN in the Gym
Concert/Dance  FREE! FREE! FREE! 
Sponsored by ABConcerts, AB Dance, 
SDC & IFC 
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Custom Designed Hairstyles
that only look expensive I
MAJOR LABELS 
TOP ARTISTS
AFFORDABLE PRICES 
Something for Everyone 
Pop, Rock, Folk, Jazz and Classics
On Sale for Limited Time 
Shop Early for Best Selection
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want. That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
237 Atwood Street Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
Across the street from Thurs.. Fri. 10-9
Oakland Post Office Sat. 9-6
No Appointment 
UNISEX 
^ HAIR SALON 
I 687-3500
PERMS FOR ALL ST VIESemu focckstcreWASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRYIN gNpi- eNMMcNMcnnms
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS(ANY LENGTH)
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
Is getting a proper meet an exercise in quantum mechanics?
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED!
s YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Fear not. Domino's Pizza will give your brain a break aa wed aa provide nutritious energy.We deliver made-to-order pizza in 30 minutes or less.
PlusBuy any pizza from Dominos Pizza and get a free notes1 n doodles.
Nice extras"_delivered right to your door with your pizza
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS 
that could become available for September, 
October and November occupancy.
One per pizza 
Expires: 10/14/84
Hours:11 am-2am Sun-Thurs 11 am-3am Fri & Sat.
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.Limited delivery area 1964 Domtno't Ptzza, Inc
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.Call us.
681-1700
310 N. Craig St

---------------------------------------------------

EdforiaL
Student input needed in tenure decisions
Too often good faculty are denied tenure. tie on the small budget it has. It has already between Taylor and Cyert, student input is
It is often said around CMU, Only the videotaped teachers in several departments. taken into account once more,
researchers are tenured. The teachers always But even if Fenton manages to tape four Now the ball is in our court. If students dont
leave for greener pastures. departments per year, it will be six and one- take advantage of an opportunity to give their
Such a case can be overstated There are half yearS before a11 teachers have a chance to input, theyve nobody to blame but themselves
,  ,  r , ' T , use the center. The administration needs to for bad teaching,many tenured classroom faculty at CMU, and , . 8 , __positive steps have been taken. devote more money to such a worthy project. But thats not enough. The way the system
N *__currently works, they final decision on tenure
Last year a low budget University Teaching Anothw posi ire s p w is made by Cyert who considers the recommenCenter under the direction of Dr. Ted Fenton when Cmdy Tay or, c air o , dations of the dean of the college who in turn
was instituted. The center is always moving to Student Senate' met with ^idem Richard # ^ ^ ^ ^ 
improve teaching with positive reinforcement. Cyert. Evidently, students have a input to teacher in question Students should sit on the
No faculty member is ever forced to participate the tenure process or years' review board, since students know best the
in the program. Those who do use the centers The policy had been to post names of faculty teaching abilities of teachers,
resources are kept in strict confidentiality  up for tenure jn departmental offices, and Good progress has already been made on
as it should be. students were asked for input. That policy had teaching at CMU. But if students have more
But a project of such magnitude can do lit- fallen into disuse. But as a result of the meeting input to teaching, education will improve.
Mondale approach more reasonable
Reagan promotes merger instead of modernization
By STUART SHAPIRO that unused industrial capacity implies lit- regardless of actual intent. Quotas are contend with the workers rendered obsolete
Since I considered fiscal issues last week, tie need for new capital investment miss or another form of government subsidy. in the process. In this respect, Mr. Reagan
I may as well continue along the same path more accurately reverse the point. American What should be done then about our ail- is perfectly content to let the free market
and turn my attention to issues of industrial industrys lack of modern production ing industrial base? Mr. Reagan and his reign, leaving victims of structural displacepolicy, certainly one of the more popular facilities has resulted in unused capacity trickle down theorists contend that the ex- ment on their own. Mr. Mondale advocates
topics of acrimonious argument because much capacity is too inefficient tra pocket money has tax cuts deliver to significant retraining programs which,
j in this region. relative to foreign competitors. Foreign pro- those in the upper income brackets is quickly assuming we have learned something from
It has become fairly obvious ducers can dump their goods here rather and eagerly invested in companies which just the CETA experience, would involve close
over the last few years that a lot easily principally because it costs American as quickly and eagerly invest it in new cooperation with the private sector. The task
of problems plaguing American industry firms so much more to produce them. capital. Extra revenue from the effect of of repairing and rebuilding Americas in
can be traced to failure to modernize. High Charges of unfair foreign subsidies are quotas is put to the same purpose. frastructure would also provide many
labor costs have hurt our competitiveness largely unfounded. Our producers receive As it turns out, however, the new capital legitimate jobs for workers with the right 
abroad as well, but there is no way labor subsidies just as their foreign competitors do. many companies obtain is new only to the training and skills. America must modernize
costs in this country can be cut sufficiently When a company pays virtually no taxes, new owners. Instead of purchasing new both its capital and its labor,
to compensate for outdated and inefficient and there are quite a few of them, that capital, many businesses are purchasing old Mr. Reagans activities concerning this
methods of production. Those who argue amounts to a pretty fair public subsidy capital and the businesses that goalong with issue are pretty clearly meant as grease for
a mm _ m m m < that capital. Mergers and acquisitions are the electoral wheel. Mr. Mondale at least
UjQCXi\iG Upmion swell for law firms but do little in the way proposes a coherent and formalized policy.
I    f significantly increasing productivity. Its important that its protectionist provisions
I   1^^ 1^ 1^ 1^ 1I I 1^ Diversification through acquisition may help be stricdy limited both in time and
*   * * I *  1 US Steel survive, but it wont help them c substance and that foreign competitors
II | j | B B H ompete without protection in the world steel understand that. Given that, Mr. Mondale
%# Q M O I 1 t1 AM I O |Y> market. certainly offers a more reasonable approach
" m jr  III Thus, we are presented with the sight of to our industrial problems than the PresiBy DAVID MOSKOWITZ known the reference to this philosophy con- a President who ceaselessly lauds the virtues dent. Im not crazy about protectionism, but
Today I become legitimized with a title for tained in the title of my column. of the free market negotiating with foreign I could live with a coherent and limited plan
my column. I feel it important to explain j it necessary to comment on another steel producers for voluntary** restraint to ease the trauma of economic transition,
the meaning of this title, since in it I wish column in The Tartan, The Libertarian a*reements Since government can I think were a hell of a lot more likely to
to make reference to an entire system of AiteTnative and distinguish libertarianism <uickly implement tariffs to make life get one from Walter Mondale than we are
philosophy. from objectivism. Objectivism and liber- Arable for any producers violating the from Ronald Reagan.
Secondly, I would like to tarianism hold similar views in the field of v0'untary" agreements, such agreements are Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student mapT distinguish myself from another but objectivism is broader in scope, formal <luota8 in Practice if not in name. pUed history and is a columnist for The
The Tartan columnist whose eluding views in ethics, metaphysics and Modernization by the steel industry while Tartan,
beliefs might seem similar. aesthetics ihus protected, however, is voluntary. Once
Objective Opinion to many may be a con- again, at least Mr. Mondale is straightfortradiction. There exists a general belief that 1 ^ee| my ^^erences the author of warc[ about such things. Granted, he wants  ^uL
all opinion is subjective, based on a par- ^he Libertarian Alternative, Dan Tobias, protection also, but his proposal would at lwwww
ticular point of view. concerns the scope of our respective jeast donaiicl that those who gain from that Editor in Chief...................................................................Ric Medrow
Hence this personal bias precludes any philosophies. I have written on art and protection modernize their facilities in Managing Editor......................Mark Levine
one view from being objectively correct. In morahty as well as politics, while Tobias return. If were going to do this lets at least BusinUw Manager.............Neil J. Greenblum
other words, since no one can see facts as 5661118 concerned only with Plitics- In fact- insist that the beneficiaries of the govern- Editor ......... Christopher D. Lewis
they are, objective opinion cannot exist. Tobias fCOPe b 50 lhnited he scems aware ments kindness prepare themselves to even- FeaturM Editor. ,; -.........Nef ^ JhnS!P
My tide, Objective Opinion is an allusion of Problems with our government. tually return to the free market Mr. Reagan ............. Z^Ronc
to Ayn Rands objectivism. The main axiom Every week in Tobias column, we are is so fond of. Photography Editor Mike Pilewski
of objectivism is existence exists. Contrast enlightened with a new infraction of our Since modernization inevitably means production Manager Michele Reisinger
this with some philosophers who claimed rights by our government. While I agree moving ever further away form labor in ten- Manager.............................Steve Volan
reality exists only in the mind. with most of these views, I see things dif- sive methods of production, we must also Typesetting Manager...........................................Jill Clelland
Objectivism holds that, regardless of what ferently. I see our government not as an op-  9 ' 1 *' ^5 ' * Art Director.................Michel A. Sussman
people say or think, there remains one true ponent of human rights, but as the greatest ( EdHor.................Pauline Wen
reality. It is our job to observe things as they champion of human rights anywhere in the MT ' Aest News Editor...........Karen Gray
are. world history. I admit there exists shortcom - rials appear at the beginning of the opinion Asst Ent Editor.....................................Adam Hanin
Objective Opinion implies an interpreta- ings in our government, but I tend to look and are the official opinion of The Tar- Asst. Sports Editor . . . . . Don Eggerte r S . . , ,, , . , , ditnrial Board Asst. Production Mgr. . . Katrin Wesnertion of fact. For any opimon to hold the at America as the good guys. aiionai rttnCa Alir . tJllLL, T ,__ ,  . , . jr. ,  , Columns are the opinions of individual authors Dl*1* IW,W...................oonnw icprreasons behind it and facu which give rise If Tobias wants to find human rights who are mually ^ ^ Tartan staff> ^ the EdMorisI Aaastant .........................Mohan Ember
to it must be stated. violations, I suggest he look into the Soviet opinions are not necessarily those of The^Tartan Proauction Staff: Bob Aarhus, Marijean
This belief doesnt deny the presence of Union or Nicaragua. While Tobias will vote Editorial Board. Azrak, Tina Hatchl, Duane Galbi, Arthur Gelmis,
personal bias, but holds that there exists one Libertarian, I plan to vote Republican. Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual rPave r* r w n, in
bias which is in accord with reality. This may , . . , , , . authors who are usually members of the Vnwer- r . . .T)... 7 I hope this column clears things up a auinors wno are usually memoersoj ine untver re86rve6 th right to withhold from publication anycome as no surprise, but objectivism also sity community. A letter intended for publication ^ k deems unft ^ Editorial Offices
holds moral beliefs (such as religion, abor- must be signed and include the writers address gkibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo
tion etc) can be objectively correct. lean- David Moskowitz is a sophomore in civil and phone number for verification. Names will 52,(412)578-2112.24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113.
not hope to illustrate more than a small frac- engineering and writes Objective Opinion be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves Mailing address: Bqk 17, Schenley Park. Pittsburgh
tion of objectivism. I only wish to make for The Tartan. the right to condense or reject any letter. PA 15213.

---------------------------------------------------

October 9, 1984The TartanPege 19
The Greek ViewIFC sponsors car race
By MARC BOLAN
We in the Greek community feel Greeks 
are a strong, positive influence on CMU and 
this year we will become even stronger.
The various Greek organizations on cam
pus, past and present, pride 
themselves on performing acts 
and services beneficial to the 
whole campus and Pittsburgh 
community. Just to cite a few examples; Beta 
Theta Pi held a party in conduction with the 
March of Dimes last year to raise money 
while Delta Delta Delta each year offers a 
scholarship to a needy student. In addition, 
the Greek community as a whole, through 
the Interfratemilty Council (IFC), has pro
moted many campus-wide events. This year 
is no exception.
The second series of events sponsored 
by IFC (the first being Watermelon Bash) 
takes place tonight and tomorrow night; the 
Daytona Car Championships. It will be in 
the Morewood Gardens parking lot each 
night from 5pm to 11pm. There will be a 
50 cent donation asked of every participant 
and the proceeds will benefit Western Penn
sylvania Hemophilia Foundation.
In upcoming weeks and months, IFC will 
play a vital part in other campus-wide 
events. Homecoming weekend, IFC in con
junction with Activities Board and Student 
Dorm Council is sponsoring an open 
barbecue and a dance-concert. These events 
will give students a greater chance to enjoy 
homecoming.
Later in the year, IFC will sponsor the an
nual Greek Sing competition with proceeds 
benefitting other charity.
In addition, other events are planned to 
raise money for charities such as a blood 
drive or even a skate-a-thon.
Overall IFC is trying to promote activities 
in which all the students can work together 
for benefit of our college community.
We see our activities as positive, but there 
is always room for improvement. So we 
would like to hear form you. There is an IFC 
suggestion box at Skibo Information Desk. 
We want your ideas and criticisms.
The Greek View is written in conduction xvith 
Interfratemity Council and appears weekly 
in The Tartan.
Equal time
According to statistics, women drive better
By LESLEY BRUNKER
I remember the day I went for my drivers 
test. It was an ugly February afternoon, the 
kind of day that teased of snow then 
laughingly refused. I was beside myself with 
nerves and cursed the 
meterologists for not predicting 
a blizzard.
All you have to do is stay 
calm, my friend Mike had assured me the 
day before in trig class. You know, girls  
he had lowered his voice as if confiding a 
secret  girls fail because they get all ner
vous and do something stupid, something 
they would never ordinarily do, like run a 
stop sign. Guys just go in and drive.
I guess so, I conceded slowly. My father 
assures me theyre not going to ask me to do 
anything crazy, just to handle a car. I guess
I can do that.
In time, what has stuck with me as vivid
ly as that slate grey sky was the truth in 
Mikes pep talk. While many of my female 
friends failed the test their first time  one 
took it five times before passing  few of 
my male friends went in more that once.
But the difference went farther. A young 
female could be as competent as any 
veteran driver and not match the assurance 
of her male counterpart. The entire licens
ing section of the Division of Motor Vehicles 
seemed a gigantic boys club: men walked 
in one door, winked in the right direction, 
and walked out another door, fully licensed 
drivers. Women walked in, got intimidated, 
and turned left when told to turn right.
But social confidence does not guarantee 
practicable competence: young male drivers
are statistically the worst drivers on the road. 
Another highschool friend managed eleven 
violations in his first year of driving, in
cluding hitting a parked car going the wrong 
way on a one-way street.
Men are socialized to assume the role of 
good driver. Boys grow up with toy trucks 
and match box cars; girls grow up hearing 
men curse women drivers. When it is time 
for the teen-ager to step behind the wheel, 
the male is socially prepared to drive. The 
female is in unfamiliar territory.
When laws were passed last week forbid
ding insurance companies from charging sex 
based insurance rates on the basis they are 
discriminatory and promote stereotypes 
lawmakers missed the point. Men and 
women do not drive equally well.
The reason, however, lies in the way each
The Libertarian Alternative
Mondale candidate of restriction
By Dan Tobias
Last week I discussed Ronald Reagan & 
concluded he was not a good choice for 
somebody who favors individual liberty. Now 
I will take a look at his Democratic 
challenger, Walter Mondale.
Liberals, and the Democratic 
Party, make some half-hearted 
attempts to promote personal 
freedom, while working to raise taxes, inrease government economic regulations, 
nd generally stifle peoples freedom to earn 
nd spend their money in the way they 
ould like.
However, under Mondale, the Democrats 
terest in promoting freedom of lifestyle is 
re half-hearted than ever before. A case 
point is his recent announcement that, if 
ected, he would escalate the war on 
rugs, bringing the military into the act. 
In fact, his speech on the subject soundlike it could just as easily have been by 
agan, who is well-known as an advocate 
a stepped-up war on drugs. There appears 
be no major difference between the two 
r'didates on this subject; neither one 
gnizes the Libertarian position. We hold 
P'oblems attributed to the drug trade 
1 aused by the laws against drugs, rather 
n the substances themselves. The only 
to solve the drug problem is to legalize gs.
Drugs arent the only personal liberty on 
which he has failed to take a pro-liberty posi
tion; I have not heard of any Mondale com
mittment to repeal laws concerning prostitu
tion, gambling, pornography, and other 
victimless crimes. But I could be mistaken, 
since he has made so many promises nobody 
could possibly remember them all. If any 
Mondale supporters know of an area in 
which Mondale has made a definite commit
ment to ease government control of personal 
lifestyle, let me know.
Now on to the subjects Mondale has em
phasized in his campaign: economic mat
ters. It is here that, as can be expected of 
a Democrat, he takes his most severe antiliberty positions.
He is one of the few politicians ever to 
campaign on a promise of increased taxes. 
While Republicans use such terms as 
Revenue Enhancement, he is honest 
enough to say forthright he believes the 
government should be taking more of 
everybodys paycheck.
Thus, if you find all that money you are 
earning a real nuisance, and you dont want 
to worry about what to do with it, vote for 
Mondale. He will take it out of your unprotective hands and give it to the govern
ment to help pay for such essential programs 
as paying farmers not to grow things.
But one of the scariest things about a
Mondale presidency is he is strongly in
fluenced by labor unions. Unions are among 
his biggest contributors, and the union 
leadership solidly supports him. However, a 
majority of union members voted for Reagan 
in 1980 and will probably vote for him again 
this year. Union leadership does not really 
represent the desires of rank and file, if it 
ever did.
This means Mondale is likely to be sup
portive of various programs the unions wish 
to impose on the American people. These 
include protectionist trade policies which 
limit foreign imports and encourage foreign 
countries to retaliate by limiting what we can 
export; as well as massive government 
bailouts of companies which have failed due 
to inefficiency; such programs actually en
courage poor management on the part of 
corporate leaders; after all, the bigger their 
deficit is, the more federal bucks they can 
get.
Productive corporations which make a 
profit, on the other hand, must pay pro
hibitive tax rates to subsidize their less pro
ductive competitors. This produces an inver
sion of incentives, which can wreak havoc 
on the economy.
There are many other things unions are 
presently pushing. One of the worst is a com
plete ban on telecommuting, i.e. doing 
continued on page 20
gender is socialized to regard the car, not in 
actuary-table based insurance rates.
I passed my drivers test that cold February 
day. See, I knew you could do it, Mike con
gratulated. Did you drive in to school to
day?
No. I wasnt ready for that step  yet. 
Lesley Brunker is Entertainment Editor and 
writes Equal Time for The Tartan.
Murphy's laws 
for dormitory 
life proposed
By MICHAEL KETZENBERG
If Murphy had lived in dorms, he could 
have written a novel regarding all laws which 
govern dorm life.
Since the subject has not been well col
laborated on (if it has, please let 
me know), Id like to relate a few 
lof the most important laws on 
fllSiiliMSMorm residents, especially 
freshmen.
While the question of dorm life being fun 
is certainly an open one, no one can deny 
it is an experience unto itself, and to fully 
appreciate it, you have to be part of it. That 
is not to say, everyone who is part of it ap
preciates it.
In short, dorm life can be categorized in
to a few broad, sweeping statements: rooms, 
roommates, and other people on your hall.
Rooms are never big enough and are 
generally too far away from campus activi
ty. If you do have a room close to the center 
of campus, you dont have a bijf enough 
room, and if you do, I dont want to hear 
about it.
However great a room you have, you will 
always find at least one o(her person with 
a better room, and more likely a majority 
of dorm residents will have a better room 
than yours. Your room it always the best 
room for receiving and transmit ting loud 
noises. No matter how rafilny lights you may 
have, no matter how you fjrange them, you 
will never have good lighting. Never buy 
plants for your room tht need light; they 
will die.
The heat will be turn on too late and 
turned off too late. W| rws. if you have
on peg 21

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanOctober 9, 1984
Mondale stresses governmental control
continued from page 19
computer work at home, which the 
AFL/CIO has already called for at its con
vention'. Unions are scared of people work
ing at home, since they are harder to 
organize and are thus out of the control of 
union bosses. The unions dont phrase it this 
way, of course: they state the lack of cen
tralized control would lead to sweatshop 
conditions.
Thus, unions have vigorously opposed any 
form of homework. the International 
Ladies Garment Workers Union has already 
successfully gotten the government to raid 
the homes of some knitters in Vermont who 
were knitting at home for profit in violation 
of a 1938 law.
But the new growth area in work at home 
is in the computer fields. There is no real
need for computer work to be done in an 
office when people can log in over phone 
lines from a terminal or personal computer 
at home.
This sort of decentralization promotes 
freedom of lifestyle for workers who are less 
regimented and more free to work at their 
own pace. It also helps ease traffic jams 
caused by commuters.
But the unions want to outlaw it, and 
Mondale is likely to be receptive to such a 
proposal. If they have their way, if you use 
a computer in your dorm room to write pro
grams which others are paying you for, the 
feds may be able to bust down your door and 
cart you away to the slammer. Thus, if you 
warn the freedom to earn money using your 
home computer, dont vote for Mondale.
I could go on endlessly listing the ways
1984 DAYTONA CAR CHAMPIONSHIPS
Morewood Parking Lot 
October 9th & 10th 
5 pm  11 pm
Sponsored by Interfraternity Council 
All Students Invited to Participate
Proceeds Benefit Western PA Hemophilia Foundation 
50C Donation per Participant
Mondale would reverse the few minor gains 
for liberty Reagan has made and expand the 
size, scope, and power of the government in 
innumerable ways. The basic philosophy of 
the Democratic Party is that government 
must be the solution to all problems.
The trouble is these days, government is 
the main problem. All the governments in
terventions tend to cause more problems. For 
example, rent control leads to a housing 
shortage, and minimum wage laws lead to 
unemployment. But then, rather than
* eliminate the original interventions, the 
government starts additional interventions 
to solve the problems caused by the earlier 
ones.
This reminds me of a childrens story I 
recall reading years ago. It concerned a man 
whose house was plagued by mice, so he 
released a herd of cats to chase away the
mice, only to find the cats caused worse pro
blems. So he sent in a pack of dogs to chase 
away the cats . . .
After several such steps, he ended up with 
elephants rampaging through his house, 
which he chased away by releasing mice. 
This sort of thing is very much like the 
Democrats philosophy of government: Each 
problem is met with a solution which only 
causes more, bigger problems; and the 
original problem might not even be solved 
in the end.
Walter Mondale does not have much pro
mise as a proponent of individual liberty. 
However, neither does Reagan, as I showed 
last week.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math 
and writes The Libertarian Alternative for 
The Tartan.
IM program "awesome"
continued from page 13
and with the sheer number of teams and 
games finding a playing area becomes a pro
blem. However, plans are under considera
tion for the new gym (being built between 
Doherty and Warner Halls) to accomodate 
intramural play. Finally, the IM Program 
has publicity problems. Freshmen are in
troduced to the program at freshman camp 
and through mailed flyers. But most infor
mation concerning intramurals is found on 
the IM bulletin board or in the IM office 
(located in the gymnasium). Increased use 
of The Tartan and WRCT for intramural 
coverage has been suggested as possible 
remedies.
Director Birdy stated that the aim of the 
IM Program is to provide every student an 
opportunity to participate in some activity 
according to his or her own ability, and we
want them to have fun. It gives people the 
opportunity to meet other people from dif
ferent departments on an informal basis. It 
also provides the student with physical ac
tivity to blow off steam through recreation. 
IM Board President Fleischman added 
another viewpoint in stating I think the 
greatest thing about the program is that it 
lets the students at CMU and the weekend 
athletes play out their fantasies. Participants 
in the program have similar praise. Mike 
Minjock, a sophomore playing 
Intermediate-level Tennis, says I think the 
program is really quite awesome. I cannot 
perceive of life without it. Freshman Tim 
Kelly agrees: Its just too cool for me. 
Anybody interested in joining an IM actvity is urged to check the IM bulletin board, 
or contact Mr. Birdy at x2214 or Rob 
Fleischman at 682-9412.ELECTION'.
SKIBO BALLROOM 
CARNE6IE-MELL0N 
UNIVERSITY 
1:01PM
C*WEGIE MELLON
UN*ERSITY
PRESENTS
(DISTINGUISHED SPEAKERS 
OE BATING THE 
CRITICAL
CAMPAIGN ISSUES
OPEN TO THE PUBLIC 
PR EE ADMISSION
POR MQNK Wf ORMAT ION 
CALLOigP 578 2*07
CRITICAL 
CHOICES
RELIGION IN POLITICS - OCT. 10
BARNEY FRANK - CONGRESSMAN (D)l
The people who ore misusing rei*fr 
political purposes in this election ore showing 
a lock of respect for religion ontf for democrocy 
October I, 1984
I CAL THOMAS - VICE PRESIDENT OF THE MORAL MAJORITY 
"The qtftstton shswtnot be whether morality
ought tifte tmpSMfl eoch time  low is 
someWg's tsnttty Is imposed TUt Question 
shouKttT wun merohty ore *01119 to Impose? 
Even morn tftHttff* we should Mfc WUst S
Mloce? Where
Ms Angeles Times.>

---------------------------------------------------

The Computer-Image Generation
Join a new generation of engineering
challenges . . .
Evans & Sutherland is shaping the 
future of dynamic, computer-generated 
interactive graphics. Our special pur
pose digital computer systems are used
for pilot simulation, CAD engineering 
and other applications requiring digital 
memory-stored models. We provide an 
invaluable technological background to 
develop your career, and the benefits to 
match.
Among the most prominent openings 
we have right now are for Hardware
Design Engineers, Softwi 
1 Systems Programmer! 
tions Programme ?rs.
Engineer; 
and ApplicaIf you're graduating with a BS or MS 
degree in EE, CS or Math with a CS 
emphasis, put your career a new gen
eration ahead. Work in a team environ
ment at a locale surrounded by spec
tacular mountains, within minutes of 
the worlds finest skiing and the many 
activities of Salt Lake City.
Please sign up at the Placement Cen
ter to interview with us on October 15.
If this interview date is not conve
nient, please send a resume to:
College Recruiting Program
580 Arapeen Drive
Salt Lake City. Utah 84108
EVANS & SUTHERLAND
Where more than graphics are threc-diiuctisiortal. 
Equal Opportunity Employer
EVANS & SUTHERLAND
byN wnen you uuy any n\*,<arvu 
college ring, you not only get one 
ring loaded with style and quality, you 
get two. A great college ringand a 
diamond fashion ring. FREE. It's a 
beauty10K gold with a genuine 2 
point diamond. Retail value$60. 
The perfect way to express yourself, 
your style, or your feelings for that 
special someone Available exclu
sively from your ArtCarved Repre
sentative for a limited time only.
DATE: October 10 k 11 TIME: 10 am - 4 pm PLACE: Skibo 
Deposit required. MasterCard or Visa accepted.
October 9,19B4The TartanPag 21
wmitory life snown through Wphy's own perspective
ontlnuad from papa II
iexn, are the best regulator# of temperature. 
Room* never have enough space. The 
umber of things that accumulate in your 
oom is directly proportional to the number 
f roommates times the amount of work not 
one  a very big number indeed! 
Garbage in your room (most of the things 
hat accumulate in your room) is proporonal to the number of roommates times the 
econds squared that they are in the room 
another very big number. Your room will 
lways be the farthest from the garbage 
umpster.
A subject that deserves mention by itself 
laundry. Theres always a lot of it to clutr up the little space you have to live in and 
ems to grow out of comers. There is no way 
f immediately calculating the amount of 
undry in your room at a given time, but 
is always a very big number. Laundry 
kens are always sold out when you want 
wash your clothes. Washers and dryers eat 
othes. Make sure the washer and dryer 
ure using is properly fed before you load 
em. You will always load the machine, put 
detergent, make the correct setting, and 
t in your token before you find out the 
achine is out of order.
Food, or rather lack of food is another 
azing aspect of dorm life. Pizza is a main 
msumption item and is mostly devoured 
people who just happen to show up when 
e pizza arrives. The food you have been 
ving for a late night snack always manages 
disappear just after the stores close, 
obody ever knows what happened to the 
ur bags of groceries you just bought a few 
urs earlier. The length of time food reains in your room is directly proportional
to a very small number.
Roommates are the most important fac
tor in dorm life. Your preconceived notions 
are never true; they should hae been worse. 
The luck of a dorm resident is measured by 
the number of compatible roommates of 
total roommates. At least one of your room* 
mates snores. At least one of your roommates 
gets up five minutes before you and disturbs 
your sleep. At least one of your roommates 
goes to sleep five minutes after you and 
disturbs your sleep. Your roommates all like 
the music you despise. Your roommates are 
always bigger than you.
More things need to be said about peo
ple on your hall, other than they eat all your 
food. The people next door take pleasure in 
bouncing balls on the wall adjacent with 
yours, there are never enough members of 
the opposite sex in our dorm. You will always 
find, up to the last day of school, new peo
ple that live in your hall. There is always so
meone who miraculously knows when your 
door is unlocked and enters to check things 
out. The person you cant stand to be with 
is always in your room. There is always so
meone in your hall to tell you to turn down 
your music within three seconds after you 
turned up the volume.
Michael Ketzenberg is a freshman intending 
to major in information systems and is a coU 
umnist for The Ikrtan.
Correction:
The story on page 15 "WRCT expanding, 
diversifying sports department last week 
referred to a staff member named Dave 
Lauren. The person in question is actually 
Production Director Dave Loren.
iHWIKfe
TNWfcBSREDOwHWte
kBfTTaoFKilBgb
Coleos Press Service
COLUMBIAUNIVERSITY
Rochelle Pollock, Dean for Student Affairs will be on your campus Friday, October 19,1984 to speak with students from all disciplines who are interested In the M B A. and Ph.D. degree programs. Twelve concentrations are offered In the 
Business School plus Joint degree programs with the Schools of Architecture, Engineering, International Affairs. Journalism. Law, Public Health, Social Work and Teachf rs College. For further details please contact the Career Services and 
Placement office.GRADUAT SCHOOL O

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
AR66H.' X CAN'T n \ f To"^ 
1HIS SfUPID TIEIVW V Hi of
00 men ham? to wear \ youk
THS 1H1N6S ANIWY.7J BOfOllS
\ / Ifp/ This isthtdeep, 
If DAR.K,SfcRET
I REASON VJHV MEN
vty, NaU-r iHifr 
SEtVES WITH!#
sii-uv um C v
S1&IPS of UoXH.C/ 
y To HIDE'
\ BUTTONS* / #f//
^ C3urfoV5/
D^i. w/rtf j,^_it/ y?
WO\N 00 \NOIAN N/ > DONT x -fHWK M &ET \ knovM, BUT 
OUI. SHIRTS ONl?J TH\NK of 
^ v Something - -'f HfRE COMES (^\ ( TOO.
\cy
VTT^ 1
PoindexterBy Maszle and Beyer
Hey/yo/] 
weeo/'r 
/a/ My 
Rzarxnai 
THU 
McOI/M?.?
X'tk SO Soeft.'i, f6TE?| 
j SLETT TMtoufrW rr/f ,v^
\bu Make ussHIS CLASS THIS 
MoRtlMoH .
Joe Freshman By Mark Levine
CROSSWORDPUZZLE
Answers to last weeks 
crossword puzzle
ACROSS 
1 Lifted with 
lever 
6 Brief 
11 Sell to 
consumer
13 Container
14 Guidos 
low note
15 School books
17 Symbol for 
tantalum
18 Noise
20 Enticing 
woman
21 Lair
22 Periods 
of time
24 Decay
25 Sow
26 Short jacket 
28 Jimmy
Carter's 
hometown 
30 Mountains of 
Europe
32 Thus
33 A state
35 Poker stake
37 Resorts
38 Paddle 
40 Dispatch
42 BeiH
43 Pigpens
45 Stream: 
abbr.
46 Note of scale
47 Skinning
49 About
50 Be present 
52 Scorches
54 Believer in 
personal god
55 Whimpers
DOWN 
1 Excessively 
priggish 
person
2 Retreat
3 Pronoun
4 Organ of 
hearing
5 Expires
6 Mountain 
lake
7 Bitter vetch
8 Railroad: 
abbr.
9 Mediter
ranean 
vessels
10 African 
antelope
12 Den
13 Insect 
16 Let fall 
19 Innate 
21 Signifies
23 Painful spots 
25 Omens 
27 Scold 
29 Macaw 
31 Plundered 
33 Narcotic
EEQ
34 Metal 
fastener
36 Main dish
37 Dinner 
course
39 Units of 
Portuguese 
currency
43 Dispatched
44 Cut
47 Footlike part
48 African 
antelope
51 Note of scale 
53 Symbol for 
glucenium
IMS United Feature Syndicate. Inc
TheNEW YORK CITY CLAN 
of the CMU Alumni
invites all 
Fellow Alumni, Current Students, 
and CMU Staff to Attend
ANDREW
CARNEGIES
149th Fourstden
PARTY
DATE: Thursday, October 25, 1984 
TIME: 6:30 pm  9:30 pm 
PLACE: The Andrew Carnegie Mansio^ 
2 East 91st St.
New York, NY 10128

---------------------------------------------------

October 9r 1984The TartanPage 23
Crowd stays the night with Chicago
Sonja Lazener, as Jessie Cates, emphasizes 
her loss of hope and wish for death in 
'Night, Mother. Call the Pittsburgh 
Public Theatre at (412) 321-9800 for 
tickets and information.
continued from page 10
Civic Arena.
One of the highlights of the show was a 
drum duet featuring Seraphine and Kenny 
Cetera. Seraphine played his heart out at 
speeds unattainable by normal man as 
Cetera kept a comparable rhythm. While 
the rest of the band was taking a breather, 
these two were tiring themselves out to the 
thrill of the crowd.
When they were finished, Lamm came 
out and showed the diversity of himself and 
the group. Lamm played a piano solo. 
In itself, that isnt unusual, but Lamm was 
playing the inside of the piano. The string 
instrument formed an eery song, yet a 
graceful sound. Lamm finished the solo with 
a beautiful display on the more conventional 
outer keyboard.
The repertoire of songs included old 
favorites such as Saturday in the Park, 
Make Me Smile, Beginnings and Does 
Anybody Really Know What Time It Is. 
One of the biggest responses was to their 
latest top ten smash Youre a Hard Habit
to Break.
The band closed their regular portion of 
the concert with Its Hard to Say Im Sorry, 
which led into an energetic interlude called 
Get Away. Pankow really showed off his 
amazing talents during this interlude, with 
perhaps the greatest trombone solo in pop 
music history. The band said good night 
after that song, but the crowd would have 
none of it.
The band returned for their encore, and 
played 25 or 6 to 4, a smash included on 
the Chicago Nine greatest hits album. The 
end of the encore saw the repeat of "Get 
Away, and the concert ended. A hush fell 
over the crowd as they exited, with Hard 
Habit to Break sounding through the Arena 
speakers. Everyone joined in this time, as 
they had joined in the experience of a 
Chicago concert.
Architects open "other" works 
tonight at Forbes Gallery
continued from page 9
Nam. I asked myself what it was about 
helicopters that is so frightening. It hunts 
like an animal, which led me to the idea of 
a fear of insects, and how helicopters used 
to swarm Viet Nam like insects, says Vieth.
Emotion is a factor in Vieths architecture 
as well as his art. In architecture I try to 
translate emotionwhich seems a lot harder 
to do, says Vieth. In his architectural plans
for a library, Vieth perceives books as the 
ideas and memories of man. This leads to 
the idea of the vault system in cemetaries, 
which Vieth incorporated into his library as 
vaults designed to protect books.
Fontaine, Kholes, Scheerer, and Vieth will 
be showing at the gallery through October 
14. Gallery hours are Wednesday - Friday, 
11:00 to 6:00, and Saturday and Sunday,
noon to 5:00.
/
)!
You're on the bridge of a 200- 
million-dollar Navy destroyer 
ploughing through the choppy 
waters of the South China Sea.
And youre in charge.
Youre ready for the responsibil
ity l>ecause youre a Navy Officer. 
With more authority than
most corporations will ever 
give you at 22.
The rewards are greater, too. 
With a great starting salary of 
$17,700. A comprehensive package 
of benefits. And an increase up 
to as much as $31,000 after four 
years with regular promotions
and pay raises.
There's more to learn in the 
Navy. About yourself and al>oul a 
career that can last a lifetime. C? 
everything you're capable of from 
the start when you start in the 
Navv. Seevour Navv Recruiter or
CALL 800-327-NAVY.NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FASI

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
CLASSIFIEDS
Karan Kalb, B.A., M.A., (Ph.D.)  Editing, writing, 
transcription, manuscript typing, word processing: 
English-Fiynch translation, ESL/TESOL, French, 
English instruction (PA certified), (412)521-8383.
Lose weight. Stay healthy. Lose 10-29 lbs. per month 
or your money back. No exceptions! Get serious. Free 
delivery. Call Herbalife Distributors: Mary, 828-3266; 
Barb, 776-4252.
Help Wanted: delivery person. Earn up to $7.00 per 
hour as a Dominos Pizza delivery person. Apply in per
son at 310 N. Craig St.
Shadyside Apartment Available 3rd floor, private home
 3 blocks CMU. Private kitchen. $190 per month in
cludes utilities. Security deposit, lease, references re
quired. Single, grad student preferred. 687-6080 
evenings/ weekends.
Papermart  one-stop party shopping. We carry 
everything to make your party a success  great Hallo
ween accessories. Baum Blvd. at Morewood. 681-8900.
LOST  Class ring, mans, size 9, BIG reward. If 
found, contact Neal at 822-7040.
The Ready Resume is now available! Call (412)824-6800 
for free quote. Monroeville Secretarial Service, located 
on William Penn Highway, has evening appointments 
available. 10% discount with valid CMU ID.
Typing on Morewood Ave  $1 per page, neat typ
ing, new typewriter. Rush jobs accepted. Resumes com
posed for $6.00. Call 687-8159.
EXOTIC DANCERS  Entertainment for parties, 
male and female dancers. Stripper-grams. 931-3255.
Looking for EE students to build an electronic 
calculator prototype for $$. If interested, call 683-1349.
The Dissertation Doctor is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville Secretarial 
Service, located on William Penn Highway, has even
ing appointments available. 10% discount with CMU 
ID.
Academic Bag Ladies  4515 Forbes  682-6886; 
Thursdays 12-1 for lunch, support, sharing; for women
25 + .
FREE
WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
Beginning Monday, Oct. 8 
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., thur.
7 pm  jo pm
COMPUTER SCIENCE WeH 5413
MODERN BIOLOGY PH126C
CALCULUS PH225B
H&SS MATH PH226B
CHEMISTRY PH 19A
PHYSICS PH 19C
PHILOSOPHIC METHODS PH 21 
& SOCIAL VALUES
Rapid Report typing is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville Secretarial 
Service, located on William Penn Highway, has even
ing appointments available. 10% discount available with 
valid CMU ID.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the US 
government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142. 
Ext. 3401-A.
Apartment, excellent location. Offers one bedroom, 
remodelled with new kitchen and bath. Ideal for two 
students to share. Only $340 per month, including 
utilities. CMU shuttlebus service at front door. 682-7010.
OPPORTUNITY for student with electronic ex
perience to build preproduction prototype 
microcomputer-based system. Rewarding one-shot pro
ject or ground floor entry into high-tech career. Send 
brief resume at once to: ESE Incorporated, Route 4, 
Airport Park, Petersburg, VA 23803. Attention Diane 
T. Sweeny. Interviewing will be conducted in Pittsburgh 
the week of October 22.
Go directly to the talent for male and female 
dancergrams, bellygrams, comedygrams, clowns, jug
glers, mimes, magicians. The performers collective 
731-8877.
Roomate to share 2-bedroom apt. Highland Park, 
$195/mon. + Velec. 1 mon. deposit required. Grad 
stud, preferred. Ref. 521-2628. 6-9 PM.
Research Papers! 306-page catalog  15,278 topics! 
Rush $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206M, Los 
Angeles, 90025, (213)477-8226.
A&A Secretarial Service  Quality typing, low prices, 
pickup and delivery available. For further information 
call 362-TYPE.
Will type term papers, resumes, etc. at reasonable 
rates. Call Mary Ann at 462-5932.
Mailing Labels with names and addresses of companies 
that hire scientists and engineers. 600 labels for $20.00. 
Motto Labels with your Motto on them. Semper Ubi 
Sub Ubi. 100 labels with your motto $5.00. Chicago 
Computer Products, PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 
15216.
Need transportation? Drive a car anywhere in USA. 
Must be 21. References required. Call 828-4813.
Its raining. In your last class you got back your red
ink-marked test paper. Your girl just told you that she 
isnt. And ou have a term paper that needs to be typed 
What do YOU do? CALL J.A.C.s Professional Typing 
Service at 621-9751, ANYTIME! We listen. We unders
tand. 24-Hour Service.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Co-ed mud wrestling for juniors? Sophomore snow 
sculptures? A senior prom? Freshman stilt races? What 
going on here?! Join Class Clubs! See for yourself!
Sign up now for Counseling and Student Develop
ment Center Workshops. The following workshops are 
offered this semester. Register at Morewood Gardens 
E-Tower, Suite 103 or call 578-2922. Managing Stress
 Learn how to cope with academic and personal 
pressures, 4 sessions, Tuesdays from 4:30 to 5:30 PM 
October 30-November 20. Families in Transition - 
A workshop for students whose parents are separated 
divorced, and/or remarried, 4 sessions, Wednesdays, 
4:30 to 5:30 PM, October 24-November 14. Eating 
Disorders Group  For persons struggling with eating 
problems such as starvation, binging, or purging, 4 ses 
sions, Mondays, 4:30 to 5:30 PM, October 29-November 
19. Artists! Cmftspersons! A chance to show your work 
in our office on campus. Call for information, x2922.
Have we got plans for you! You are suggestively in 
vited to Come, help iis conceive! Class Clubs. Where 
the action starts!
Cats Pajamas, humor magazine, needs writers and ar
tists. CMUs only humor magazine is now taking sub
missions. Call Allan Dont call me Al Morgan at 
x4243.
Students: Do you have any suggestions, comments, oil 
complaints, concerning anything to do with CMU? If I 
you do, come to Student Senate meetings every Tues-f 
day at 7:00 pm in the Wherret Room. Student Senate.I 
Were here to serve you.
For a good time . . . call x2075. Find out about ClasJ 
Clubs!! Join us:
Seniors: Mon. Oct 8-5:00 Skibo 
Juniors: Tues. Oct 9 - 5:00 Skibo H
Sophomores: Wed. Oct 10 - 5:00 Skibo 
Freshmen: Thur. Oct 11 - 5:00 Skibo
SUPA - 1 chair, GSIA - 1 chair, CFA, CFA, CFAl
 1 chair. All for Student Senate vacancies. All ini 
terested students contact Eric Rocher x4795,| 
erOd @topsd.
DE A ROAD SCHOLAR RENT FROM NATIONAL
Oet away and get a free T-shirt.
Getting away this weekend may be easier, more fun, and less 
expensive than you think.
Thats because National rents to 18-year-olds, and gives you 
dean, sporty cars at low prices. Absolutely no mileage charge.
And now a free Road Scholar T-shirt will help make your week
end a great getaway.
You can rent at any of the National locations below. All you 
need is a valid student ID and drivers license. Use a major credit 
card or submit a cash qualifying application 24 hours prior to 
rental. You pay for gas and return the car to the renting location.
T-shirt offer good while supplies last.
You deserve 
National 
attention>
NO MILEAGE CHARGE
Rate available 
from noon 
Thursday to 
6 p.m.Monday Certain daily mmimums apply Ask (of details
\<in <liM<iuntuhte rule 
applie% hi this <ir similar size car 
and  sublet ! Hi i hunqe uilhnut nolue 
Sped fu tan sub/etl In unaikibtlitv
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444  434 Blvd. of the Allies 261-5500
ALLEGHENY WOMENS 
CENTER
an out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake
 Momi.;g After Treatment
 Birth Control Related Services
PHONE 412/362-2920[Allegheny Womens  Center.
Medkal Ceni W WS' 211 North Whitfield St Pittsburgh, FA 1S20f PHONE 412/3*2-
Pregnant? Call ATA
Lets talk about your options J
Canng and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494
Alternatives to Abortion, Inc
A non profil orqan^J
PREGNANT?And you dMh't moon to bt for a free pregnancy taft#^| 
oonwoamiai ne^ can
Birthright at 621*1'
OU >78-2921CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A
H,
ilo
