In an eight-page report to Cyert, the Apals Panel outlined the motivation and 
cussion behind its decision. The panel 
jnsidered issues such as the basis of the apal, severity of the punishment requested, 
|d the future use of the fraternity building, 
a decision unknown to many, it offered 
ict terms that would allow ZBT to return 
campus.
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 1}, January 15, 1985.
MU and DoD complete SEI negotiations
B
I -MU 
Jar 
of 
nej 
wa
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
c*a I to The Tartan
Provost Angel Jordan announced 
lUarY ^ that CMU and the Department 
Defense (DoD) have completed final 
[otiations regarding the creation of a Softre Engineering Institute (SEI) in 
Jtsburgh.
he SEI will be housed at Shadyside 
^ S. Aiken Avenue until a more appriate facility is built at Fifth Avenue and
now lies.
Pro
ithridSe *n early 1987, where a parking
I CC(>rding to SEI Associate Director for 
I ms Mario Barbacci, SEIs main purpose 
I ease universal problems related to
 ^Pitting. SEI officials hope to make the 
0n and maintenance of software easier, 
I' e rate technology transfer 
1 e abstract world of academia to the
practical world of business. SEI will also 
devote some time to software engineering 
education.
Although Provost Angel Jordan hopes that 
the amount of classified research at CMU 
will be minimized, some SEI research will 
be subject to DoD classification. As a result, 
foreign graduate students might not be able 
to work on classified projects at the SEI.
Jordan pointed out that those students will 
be permitted to work toward their degrees 
on non-classified SEI projects.
SEI will not create or maintain DoD 
weapons systems, but will work with defense 
contractors which build weapons for the 
DoD.
Jordan said that the DoD will have the 
right to review academic papers before 
publication in scholarly journals, but wont 
be able to stop publication. Jordan is confi
dent that the prepublication review agree
ment wont compromise the free exchange 
of ideas among researchers at CMU. He said, 
We have to inform the DoD not necessarily 
for censoring, but out of courtesy.
Jordan noted that most of the money 
dedicated to computer science research has 
been funded by the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Association (DARPA;. 
We have accepted money from the DoD in 
the past, and most universities in the U.S. 
have accepted money from the DoD. Its a 
moral issue for some people, its not a moral 
issue for others.
SEI will focus 60 percent of its efforts on 
technology transition, 20 percent on 
research and 20 percent on DoD projects.
SEI will employ a staff of 250 technical 
and administrative staff by 1989, but expects 
only 80 people to be hired during 1985. Six 
million of the $103 million will be awarded 
this year.
In this issue:
News
Jordan on SEI......................page 2
Features
Causes of war......................page 5
The Bistro............................page 6
Entertainment
The Monkees......................page 7
Hooters review...................page 7
Sports
Superbowl XIX.................page 9
Chicos picks................. page 10
BT loses appeal, is offered 
terms for reorganization
September 1983 alcohol incidents. In addi
tion, it examined a number of reports, most
ly from CMU Security, dealing with anti
social incidents and vandalism involving 
ZBT members during the 1983-84 academic 
year. It also examined the disciplinary ac
tions taken against ZBT over the past two 
years and their effectiveness in changing 
behavior.
The panel concluded that loss of recogni
tion was not excessive punishment, and 
should have been expected, since the frater
nity was on warning before the alcohol in
cidents took place, and was on probation
nummary of Special Appeals Panel for Student Disciplinary Cases
photo by Mike Pilewski
Tartan production staff member Mohan Embar applies a final coat of latex 
to one wall of The Tartan's office. The project, which will include a repain
ting of The Tartans news, business, and sports offices, is part of the general 
refurbishing of the facility.
Password-stealing program uncovered
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
A password-stealing scheme has been un
covered by the University Computation 
Center (UCC).
A student whose identity remains 
unknown used a BASIC program to simulate 
the TOPS login procedure and obtain the 
passwords of students attempting to log in 
to TOPS accounts.
User Consulting Manager Sherry Johnson, 
who runs the PC clusters on campus, ex
plained the password thiefs procedure. 
He/she would simply load the program into 
a PC and the familiar Port Group? would 
appear, as if the PC were booted up. Un
suspecting students would log in as usual, 
not realizing that they were feeding their 
userid, account, and password into a BASIC 
program rather than the TOPS system. As 
soon as a password was entered, the words 
invalid account appeared, and the pro
gram stored the password.
Johnson conceded that few students 
became suspicious, attributing their in
valid accounts to the fact that it happenened at the end of last semester, when a lot
of people thought their accounts were be
ing closed anyway.
The UCC discovered the scheme late last 
semester as increasing numbers of students 
reported to user consultants that their ac
counts were suddenly invalid, yet were able 
to log in to those accounts on other PCs.
The password thief also began to use the 
stolen passwords to post taunting messages 
on TOPS Opinion Bboard. When asked if 
she had any suspects, Johnson replied that 
while there is no way of knowing the identi
ty of the thief, my guess is it was a 
freshman, or someone inexperienced, 
because there were certain things wrong with 
(the program), certain flaws. She declined 
to reveal the nature of those flaws, rather 
than enable the thief to improve his 
program.
Johnson urged students to protect 
themselves in the following way: Never log 
in on a PC that already appears to be booted 
up. Instead, turn the PC off, then turn it 
on again and boot it up yourself. She also 
recommended that students change their 
passwords fairly often.
|By DON EGGERT
llrton Sports Editor
Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity was informed 
Jby President Cyert during finals week last 
(December that it lost its appeal to remain 
,n campus; however, terms were offered for 
I he reorganization of a new ZBT chapter at
Inae
Cyert supported the recommendation of 
[he Special Appeals Panel appointed to hear 
[he case, which in turn agreed with the decilion of Dean of Student Affairs Braden 
IValter to withdraw recognition of the 
fraternity.
In summary, the Appeals Fane! finds that an appeal Jased on procedural due process does not merit action.finds that the Disciplinary action recommended by he Dean of Student Affairs to represent an expected ction in the contact of past Disciplinary actions against BT and their disciplinary status at the time of the most ent incident. It recognizes the appeal as a strong plea
by members, current and past, and for whom the Fraternity-has provided an important and significant contribution, to be permitted to maintain their fraternal associations. It is the recognition of this plea that leads the Appeals Panel to recommend that the opportunity be offered for reforming a ZBT fraternity chapter at CMU,
Appendix to the Report of the Special Appeals Board1
4 83 ZBT placed on Disciplinary probation for reaindrr ,r academic year (letter from Dean Walter)
21 83 University Committee on Discipline convened hear appeal of ZBT from 4/4/83 Disciplinary' actionax-.vxi by Dean Walter
3 83 ZBT removed from Disciplinary Probation but mtinued on Official Disciplinary Warning (letter fromran Walter)
116 83 Rush party ( shot" party) resulting in jpiiaiization of several freshman rushees for acutecohol poisoning
3 University Committee on Discipline convened I hear ease of ZBT charged with gross misconduct.
behavior that imposes immediate and substantial danger to life^'4' ' C- t '*
10 3 83 ZBT recognition withdrawn for one year. Re quirements stated in letter not met, ZBT charter to be withdrawn immediately (letter from Dean Walter)
 *7/5/84 ZBT recognition restored but to remain on Disciplinan1 Probation throughout 84-85 academic year (letter from Dean Walter)
10 1 84 Fight between ZBT brothers and Korean students
10/19 84 and 10/24'84 University Committee on Discipline met to hear case of ZBT and Korean students
when the Korean students incident occur
red. It called the withdrawal of recognition 
the logical next step in the sequence of 
disciplinary actions available.
The panel further justified its position 
with the fact that ZBT was warned after the 
September 1983 incidents that their recogni
tion was in jeopardy, and any further serious 
violation would result in removal.
While deciding to uphold Walters deci
sion, the panel considered the difficult decicontinued on page 2
H ,n *ts review, the panel read transcripts of 
^i\ers'tv Disciplinary Committee hearings 
the Korean students incident and the

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanJanuary 15, 1985
ZBT result final
continued from page 1
sion of whether or not to hold the entire 
fraternity responsible for the actions of its 
individuals. The panel argued that member
ship in a fraternity indicates a willingftess to 
accept conformity to group norms and to 
understand that individual behavior reflects 
on the larger group.
The panel also questioned the attitudes 
of some ZBT leaders and members, especial
ly at the time of the 1983 alcohol incidents. 
The panels report charged that [the frater
nity] took no effective steps to rectify in
dividual and group attitudes that seemed to 
prevail. The callousness of the leadership of 
the ZBT fraternity at that time was truly 
remarkable. However, the panel went on to 
state that it did not want to question the 
sincerity of various ZBT alumni who have 
been seriously working with members since 
the September 1983 incident, or the good
will and competence of several current ZBT 
members and leaders.
In that light, the panel is offering ZBT 
the chance to return to campus, as early as 
next fall. It based the offer on a decision by 
the fraternitys Executive Committee and 
current leadership to take corrective action, 
and on the fact that ZBT and its alumni 
have made considerable contributions . . . 
to the University Community.
The return of ZBT is by no means 
guaranteed, and will not be easy. When ask
ed how close the fraternity is to not coming 
back, Walter stated, They are perilously 
close to the edge. In fact the panel is 
demanding a thorough change in the at
titudes and organizational philosophy . . . 
sufficient to convince the University that 
anti-social behavior and actions will not 
recur.
The panel recommends that the current 
membership and other students who wish to
The following is a memo from Provost Angel G. fordan, distributed January 8, 1985, on the recent signing of the Software Engineering Institute contract.I am happy to Software Engineering January 2, 1985. The signing of the contract completed the negotiation started on November 15, 1984, one day after the Department of Defense (DoD) announced the selection of CMU to implement and operate the DoDs Software Engineering Institute.A number of students, faculty members, and staff have raised some questions in a petition circulated on campus entitled. Is the SEI Really Good for CMU?. The petition was circulated after DoD announced the award of SEI to CMU, and the signatures were collected during the period the negotiations were taking place. Ravi Kannan, faculty member in Computer Science, Daniel Rosenbloom, graduate student in SUPA, and others collected the signatures on the petition.
On December 17, 1984, Ravi Kannan and Dan Rosenblum visited me in my office and presented thesigned petition with a cover memo. (Re: A memo of December 16, 1984 to Angel Jordan, Provost; from Ravi Kannan, Daniel Rosenblum, et al.; subject, Questions about the Software Engineering Institute".) The memo raised the same types of concerns raised in the leaflet Is the SEI Really Good for CMU? I will address these concerns below. Ravi and Dan were explicit in stating that discussions on the nature of the concerns raised in the petition would strengthen the administrations hand in negotiating with DoD. They also explained that all of the people signing the petition, about five hundred, did not necessarily subscribe to all the con cerns raised, and that many of them signed in order to obtain a clarification of CMUs position. The meeting was friendly and extremely constructive. I stated, however, that university-wide discussions could not possibly be scheduled so late in the DoD negotiations. (On December 17, 1984, we had already completed the negotiations on the technical and management issues, and only issues on cost were outstanding.)Since we could not address the concerns during the negotiations, let me now reply to the issues raised in the leaflet accompanying the petition (The leaflet is attached to this memo).
Provost Angel G. JordanWill the SEI be a center only for the improvement of software for such items as detection of hostile attack or management of the DoD budget, or will it be a center for the development of software for use in controversial weapons systems that attempt to bypass human decision-making?
The essence of the SEI mission is to improve the software production process. The goal is to develop methods and tools to increase the productivity of programming. This will be accomplished in part by including in the process programming environments that incorporate specific expertise on software development and maintenance.The output of the SEI will be software methodology' and production tools rather than specific application programs. "Activities of the SEI will exclude development of mission software for defense systems, states Richard DeLauer, Under Secretary of Defense, in his announcement to the press on November 15, 1984. In this area, the DoD will continue to rely on the private sector to satisfy its needs. The companies in the private
sector will be developing application programs.
Will the contract include classified research? Classified research give absolute power to the DoD to study whatever it wants without puh];c attention or criticism.
The Universitys proposal stated that the environment best suited for performing work required for the SEl was one that maximized a free flow of information froni both industry and government. The Universitys pro posal was accepted, and the DoD is in agreement with the Universitys belief that this work can and should be accomplished in an open government. We recognize that, at times, we might have to have access to classified information to conduct our work. However, the con tract itself does not include classified research. The SEI will minimize the number of people who are required to have access to and work with classified information 
Is classified work appropriate for an educational institution? President Cyert has stated that CMlI will not participate in classified research. H the SEI been established as a separate institu managed by CMU to bypass this?
The SEI is a semi-autonomous division of CMU 1 Mellon Institute, established as such to carry out its mis l sion. SEI is not an academic department or a college! It is a federally funded research and development in I stitute associated with the University like Lincoln! Laboratory is with MIT Therefore, the organization! was not chosen to bypass the issue of classified research ] but because it is appropriate for the task.Classified research in the academic units of the! University is not appropriate. President Cyert has stated! that the academic units of CMU will not participate! in classified research. This position is shared by the ma i jority of faculty members at CMU including those in the Computer Science Department. I wholeheartedlv agree.
Is it appropriate for CMU, as an educational institution, to participate in military research?
Universities should not be involved in mission-oriente military research not only because of the potential p
form a new ZBT chapter be allowed to and 
encouraged to do so. Interested individuals 
will have to work with the new Executive 
Board and ZBT alumni to gain club recogni
tion from CMU and colony status from the 
ZBT National Fraternity.
Walter indicated to the panel that the Of
fice of Student Affairs is willing to assist in 
a reorganization of the fraternity, and the 
panel noted that the current ZBT Trustee 
Executive Board and the Interfraternity 
Council (IFC) should be willing to help. Bob
Fishel, president of IFC, concurred: Rigl 
now, everything is in ZBTs hands. If th 
want to come back, and show us they a 
willing to take on the responsibility of be| 
ing a fraternity, IFC is willing to help thei 
form a club and in the fall form a colony.
Provost Jordan answers Software
-----High Capacity Printer Shelf-Holds 50 pounds
Paper Shelf-Holds 2 50 sheets
Viewing Height 
System and Monitor Shelf-Holds 70 pounds
Keyboard Storage Area
FIND THE TOP OF YOUR DESK... 
ORDER A DESKSAVER III '' TODAY]
Tired of sacrificing every square inch of your desktop to your personal computer? If you long to have a desk again, but don't have the space or money for another one. the revolutionary DeskSaver III1' is for you. DeskSaver III " allows you to stack within easy reach, your keyboard, system, monitor, printer, and paper supply, in less than half the space these components take when spread out on your desk.
Made of durable chrome plated steel, DeskSaver III1" snaps together in less than 5 minutes without tools or fasteners. Yet, for ail its practicality, DeskSaver III s chrome plated finish and sleek, elegant styling make it an attractive addition to home or office.
"For the IBM PC. PC/XT. TI Professional, DEC Rainbow, and other fine personal computers."
Abo available for Macintosh (MacRack), 16/2"W X 15"D. Just $79.00!! Now available in BLAC&1
Earl G Graves.Black Enterprise Magazine Editor &. PublisherJohn G Breen, Chairman,Sherwin-Williams Company President & CEOALOTOF CAPTAINS OF INDUSTRY STARTED OUT AS SECOND LIEUTENANTS.
How can you get the experience 
vou need to succeed in business
These top executives started out 
as Armv officers- Right out of college, 
thev were given the kind of responsibilirv most people m civilian life work
I A.It you b 
jffieer, vc
i your future as an 
juld further your caHow do vou become an Armv 
officer. A great way to get the training 
vou need is in Army ROTC
ROTC is a college program that
will teach you leadership and manage
ment skills, and train you to handle real 
challenges.
If you want to prepare for a 
promising future in business, begin 
your future as an Army officer, with 
Army ROTC You too might wind up a 
captain of industry!
For more information, contact 
the Professor of Military Science on your 
campus.ARMY ROTC. BEALLYOUCANBE.
Two or Three Year Scholarship Now Available at CMU ROTC. If GPA is 2.5 or better in the required disciplines, a full-time student, and will be less than 25 year* of age upon graduation, then contact: Captain Perry Colvin in B7, Margaret Morrison, or call 578-2205 or 578-2196.
MAIL TO: L & R Associates
IKS) s t iijik iiMfk i if IHM ( urp TI i i ifilimarfc t * Instrunu nii. Im Mtfc. T irjewwfli * >f tiigtui hqui(tmim ( ixpp. a leifh Warner Jr . Chairman, Mobil CorpWalter F Willums President fi. Chief Operating O#ice ftehlebem Steel Carp
Please Send Me My DeskSaver 111" Today!
Enclosed Ls a check for S89.00 (includes shipping and handling), payable to L & R Associates. 1 understand I may return my DeskSaver III1'1 within 30 days^if lam not completely satisfied.
Name:_____________________
P.O. Box 390412 Mountain Vie*, CA9*0-'
1 HmrAMtmMif < >lr IV 11 ' 1Primer V If* H 0*21 K. thiurd ' H* I* 11 v _ I 
Number:_______________________Street:
City:____________________________State:_

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1985The TartanPage 3
Engineering institute questions
issue, which is not a moral issue and is a non-issue for others, but because they are just not well equipped to conduct this type of research. CMU is not involved in mission-oriented research; the SEI will not be involved in mission software for defense systems.
Will the Institute improve economic conditions in Pittsburgh? SEI will employ 250 highly qualified people in the field of computer science. Since many of them will be drawn from all over the U.S., it is unlikely that SEI will alleviate unemployment -in Pittsburgh. The Institute will probably attract various computer software oriented businesses but it is questionable to what extent this will stimulate the local economy.
If you believe the local and national press, it will. If vou believe what our congressmen and local government officials (who supported us in the quest to attract SEI to Pittsburgh) have said, it will. But will it? We can only make predictions. I was quoted in Science (30 November 1984, Vol. 226, No. 4678, p. 1059): In respect to SEI's implications for the economic fortunes of the Pittsburgh area, Jordan is sanguine but cautious. He notes that a number of software engineering companies have located in the area and he predicts the trend will accelerate. Jordan says the Institute cant be regarded as the only solution to the problems of the Pittsburgh area, but will be an important ingredient in the transition to a stronger local economy. My views on this are shared by President Cyert, the administration, many members of the CMU and Pittsburgh communities and many faculty and students in Computer Science.Will the Institute help CMU? President Cyert claims that software experts who work for SEI will be drawn into the Computer Science Department at CMU 
because of the SEI/CMU affiliation. In this way the standing of CMU as a strong computer science school will improve. It is not equally possible that SEI could drain time and talent of leading computer sccience researchers away from the CMU campus? Where will CMUs priorities with respect to the educatipn of its students vs. the interests of SEI?. There is no question that many software experts will i be attracted to SEI and thus to CMU. As a result, the visibility and reputation of CMU in computer science will be enhanced. In addition, as Nico Habermann has
stated: The availability of more computer science positions at CMU because of the SEI will make it easier to attract leading computer scientists to our Computer Science Department, more and more of our prospective faculty members have spouses who are also looking for meaningful positions in Pittsburgh, at CMU or outside the University.I agree with President Cyert that SEI is not likely to drain the time and talent of leading computer science researchers away from the CMU campus. It is true that we have tapped the Computer Science Department for forming the nucleus of SEI. I take responsibility for this. Without Nico Habermann, Mary Shaw, Mario Barbacci and Howard Wactlar, we would not have the SEI. These leading computer scientists were champions of the SEI from the beginning, and with tremendous effort and personal sacrifice will launch the Institute. At the same time, however, they will maintain their committment to the Department. Other members of the SEI are being recruited from outside Computer Science.CMUs commitment to the education of its students will not be compromised by the SEI as it is not compromised by Mellon Institute. On the contrary, SEI will offer opportunities for students to work on meaningful software engineering problems. Additionally, students will be able to interact with outstanding software faculty from other institutions on extended sabbaticals and researchers from industry working on extended leaves at the SEI. There is not question that SEI will need nurturing and attention, but for this CMU is reimbursed in direct, and indirect costs.Although the question of whether foreign students and foreign nationals may be allowed to work in the SEI was not raised in the leaflet, it was raised by Ravi Kannan, Dan Rosenblum and others. Foreign nationals can work in the SEI subject to restrictions on access to classified information. But this restriction is not an impediment since students will likely work in the Basic Research and Education Division of the SEI which will not be subject to restrictions on classified information. Why were neither faculty not students consulted before the contract was bid on? Are there problems involved in developing the SEI, such as those raised in the previous item, that might impinge negatively on other aspects of the University?The original initiative to bid for the SEI came from faculty in the Computer Science Department. Later a
group of faculty members in Computer Science with the adminstration made a case for establishing SEI in Pittsburgh in association with CMU. Even before the DoD issued the RFP, many faculty members were informed that CMU was going to respond. During the preparation of the proposal, many department heads and all deans were informed. After the propasal was submitted, I and others in the administration informed representatives of the student body that CMU was bidding on the SEI. At various luncheons with faculty, I informed many members of the academic commun- tiy about the universitys intentions vis-a-vis the SEI. On several occasions, members of the University commun- tiy requested information; we were happy to discuss the proposal with them. At a meeting of the Faculty Senate on October 25, 1984, Mary Shaw, Mario Barbacci and I informed the faculty about SEI and answered ques tions and responded to concerns. Few other initiatives undertaken by CMU have been as widely discussed as SEI.We must make a distinction between military research and research funded by the DoD. Several academic departments and colleges at CMU conduct research funded by DoD. Most major universities in the country conduct research (with faculty and student involvement) funded by the DoD. Indeed, the lion's share of research in computer science and much of the research in many disciplines in engineering and science are funded by DoD. The output of this research benefits not only DoD but also industry and society.President Cyert, Nico Habermann, the other leaders of SEI, key faculty members of Computer Science and I believe that there are not going to be problems involved in developing the SEI that might inpinge negatively on other aspects of the University. The SEI will broaden the research and educational components of the University. As a research branch of the University, however, SEI will be reviewed by the University Research Council and me as Provost, as other units of the University are, with a view toward ensuring that the Institute does not distort or imbalance the rest of the university.
Each year cancer strikes
120,000 people in our work force, and causes our economy to lose more than $10 billion in earnings. Earn- ings that American workers might still be generating if they had known the simple facts on how to protect themselves from cancer.Protect your employees, your company, and yourself. .. call your local unit of the American Cancer Society and ask for their free pamphlet, Helping Your Employees to Protect Themselves Against Cancer' Start your company on a policy of good health today!
AMERICAN VCANCER 
 SOCIETY
Time to... Care More, Share More
United VNtoy
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY 
BOOK STORE
SECOND SEMESTER SALE
GO BACK TO SCHOOL WITH 
FREE 
BIC OFFER
BUY $2.00 WORTH OF ANY OF THE FOLLOWING 
BIC PRODUCTS AND RECEIVE A BIC MENS 
TWO PACK SHAVER FREE!
BIC BRITE LINER BIC ULTRA FINE
3 -a3T I '
2/$1.00
BIC FINE STICK
2/60$
in
Freeport $299* 
Nassau $309*212 355-4705
Your Bahamas College Week Includes:
 Round-trip air transportation from your home city to Bahamas  7 Nights accommodation in Freeport (Freeport Inncasual club like hotel located downtown, next to El Casino and opposite to International Bazaar) or Nassau (Dolphin or Atlantis Hotelideally located across the street from the beach within walking distance to everything). Price based on quad occupancy. Triple add$50.00 Double add $ 100.00  Roundtrip airport/hotel transfers  Hotel room tax  Gratuities for bellman, chamermaids and poolman  College Week activitiessports, parties, music, fun.
Hotel OptionsNassaXiAdd $50.00 for deluxe Sheraton British Colonial, add $60.00 for deluxe Pilot House Hotel FreeportAdd $50.00 for first class Windward Palms Hotel.
INTERCOLLEGIATE 
HOLIDAYS INC.
501 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022
Check One:? FREEPORT (Sat. departures)
mmmmmmjmmmmmmmmmmmm
212-355-4705/800-223-0694 (reservations only)
Bahamas College Weeks
? Jan5-Jan 12? Jan 12-Jan 19? Jan 19-Jan 26? Feb 23-Mar 02? Mar 02-Mar 09? Mar 09-Mar 16? Mar 16-Mar 23 C NASSAU(Sat. departures)
? Mar 23-Mar 30? Mar 30-Apr 6? Apr 6-Apr 13? Apr 13-Apr 20? Apr 20-Apr 27? Apr 27-May 04 Occupancy
? May 04-May 11? May 11-May 18? May 18-May 25? May 25-June 01? June 01-June 08? June 08-June 15? June 15-June 22
? Quad? TripleDoubleSounds good. Ive checked the week 1 want to party and enclosed a S100 deposit.
NAMESCHOOL
ROOMMATES
ADDRESSDEPARTURE CITY
CITYSTATEZIPPH NO
All prices plus 15% tax and services.Price based on departures fromNew York (for Washington, D.C./Baltimore& Boston add $40).Each traveler must fill out separate form. Prices will rise $25 on January 1 Book Now.
I Campus Rep/Office
I
I
I
I

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
II

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 15, 1985
You ve earned it ! 
...Show it.
available now at:
SAVINGS
Minutes of the Student Senate
DATE: Jan. 16 & 17 TIME: 10 a.m. - 4 p
PLACE: Skibo Hall 
Deposit $15.009
HERFF JOmDivision of Carnation
The meeting was called to order at 7:04 p.m.
Present-. Bach, Bett, Chu, Cohen, Denbuig, Goldstein, Frank, Jagerski, McCormick, Piscitello, Salley, Soller, Taylor, Weller, Miller, Utaslu, DeMelio, King, Simmons, Bianco, Cramer, Novae.
Absent: Carpenter, DeBroff, Mukherjee (excused), Nichols, Dean Cox, Dean Walter, Harrison (excused), Ickes (excused), Hynes (excused), Dorsey.
Audience Participation. Question regarding difficulties with the faculty in getting needed courses; solicitation of Senates help. Academic Affairs chairman Cindy Taylor volunteered to handle the matter.
Ed Lily. Discussed plans for retreat transportation and activities. It will take place this coming Friday night and Saturday.
SDC: No report.
President: Happy New Year and welcome back. Not much to discuss yet, but the pub is taking some work. 
Q: When is the pub expected to be finished?
A: (Ed Lily) By the end of January. (Bill McCormick) By mid semester.
IFC: January 27 and 28 there will be a blood drive. CMU is competing for the most blood donated against
Pitt and Duquesne.
Chairman-. See me about office hours if you didnt get any yet. The t-shirts are not in yet but should be by this weekend.At the Senate Executive Committee meeting, long and short term goals were decided upon.
Vice-Chair. The Executive Committee also decided to get in touch with other schools to share methods of governing.
Treasurer: Welcome back; Im looking forward to a good semester in Senate and with the Finance Committee especially.
Rules: Motion to remove the amendment from the table concerning empty Senate seats: PASSED.
An amendment to the amendment was proposed by the author: Ads placed in The Tartan will be for the college of the empty seat and other colleges at the same time; petitioners from the college of the vacancy will have priority.David Goldstein pointed out that the amendment would upset the balance of representation in Senate.Jeff Soller answered by saying that anyone wanting to fill the seat must submit a petition with 25 signatures,
representing one eighth of the student population.The amendment to the amendment originally proposed was withdrawn. There will be an ad for the college of vacancy, then 2 weeks later an ad for other colleges.
Proposed new amendment to the amendment (made by David Goldstein): term may be filled until the next election ... instead of term may be completed ...Motion to amend: FAILED.Motion to call the question.Motion on entire amendment: FAILED.
Academic Affairs-. FCE results are out. We are still trying to deal with those professors who are not handing out FCEs. We are also working on keeping back results of FCEs in the Senate office, along with comments from students concerning professors.The Education Affairs Council will be meeting soon: request for ideas.
The University Core Curriculum Committee will also be meeting soon; the core will go through the board of trustees first.
GC&I: Pictures of Senate will be taken next week after the meeting; they will be put on the info board.
And Everything Nice
Our weekly Friday FLOWER 
SALES will resume on January 
18th. Orders for delivery can be 
placed on Wednesdays from 5 pm 
7 pm in Skibo Rm. 58
FRESH ROSES, CARNATIONS, AND BUNCHES
Ads will continue in The Tartan concerning Senate functions.
There will be a meet the Senators party and an AB/Senate get-together in the near future.
Finance: No report.
Old Business: No report.
New Business: Peter Cohen proposed an amendment to the section of the Constitution concerning commit, tee functions and another amendment to the section concerning the policy for write-in candidates for Senate 
General Discussion: None.
Announcements: Academic Affairs committet members see Cindy Taylor after the meeting.There will be a Finance meeting Thursday at 7 p.m . in Skibo 112.GC&I members meet with Peter Cohen after the meeting.
Committee chairmen should see the Vice-Chair after the meeting to tell him their committee meeting times The meeting was adjourned at 7:46 p.m.
These minutes are to be approved at tonight s meeting 
Respectfully submitted Leslie Frank, SecretaiJ
erty
Beginning programmers await the opening of the Edu rooms doors for some 
overloaded terminal time
United Way... thanks to you it works for all of us!

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Satisfaction key to theory
CMU professors postulate as to causes of war
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor in Chief
America is experiencing growing 
awareness about war, nuclear and conven
tional. Few people, however, have looked 
dosely at the causes of war. But CMU 
associate professors of social sciences Tim 
McKeown and Paul Anderson are doing just 
t^at __ working on a theory to explain under 
what conditions two countries go to war.
CMU experts on: 
WAR
Traditionally, social scientists have tried 
to explain conflict in one of two ways: either 
A. balance of power  in which all coun
tries continually try to get as much power 
as possible, as if the world were one big game 
of Risk, where dictators were always trying 
take over the world. Or B. Profit max
imization  that all countries are constantly 
trying for as many of the worlds resources 
as possible.
To say that nations seek infinite expan
sion is no more helpful than saying that 
firms seek infinite profits, explains 
McKeown. The profit maximization 
postulate has not been notably successful in
theory. They are currently testing the next 
two parts.
The research is funded largely by the Na
tional Science Foundation. McKeown and 
Anderson hope to publish by late this spring.
photo by Peter Rosenfeld 
Tim McKeown (pictured above) and Paul 
Anderson are searching for the causes of 
war.
photo by Bob FishelIranele as seen from the roof of Warner Hall.
duction of agricultural goods as fast as 
another.
Close but conflictual relations are akin to 
the historic relationship between the Soviet 
Union and China. Both countries have a 
long history of diplomatic, cultural and 
economic exchange. At the same time, those 
relations have been strained over history. 
War would not, however, be likely between 
countries with limited or nonexistent ties like 
Brazil and Turkey, according to the 
Anderson-McKeown theory.
As an illustration, if Syria felt it was lag
ging behind the average country in 
something it felt important, like oil produc
tion, it might take a look around for solu
tions. Seeing that Syria has strong 
diplomatic ties to Jordan, if Syria felt it 
could defeat Jordan, war might ensue.
McKeown explains, When a country is 
dissatisfied, decision makers cast about for 
ways of dealing with the problem. External 
aggression is one possible solution.
If the Anderson-McKeown theory is cor
rect, analysts will be able to identify every 
country in the world which might go to war. 
Such information, McKeown feels, will go 
a long way toward abolishing war.
The two men have finished testing the 
part of their postulate concerning 
dissatisfaction using a computer model. The 
model, using historical data on every war 
since 1816, supports the first part of the
photo by Olve Peersen
A little greenery survives in spite of the cold.
Traying is popular before the academic crush hits.
photo by Olve Peersen
explaining changes in the level of coopera
tion among oligopolies, and the power max
imization postulate has similarly enjoyed 
limited success in explaining the behavior of 
nations.
According to Anderson, the approach 
taken in their research looks in a different 
direction than any previous work. Anderson 
and McKeown break their theory down to 
three simple steps: 1. if a country is 
dissatisfied with its share of world capabili
ty, 2. that country may remedy its situation 
by going to war with another country with
relations
3 . and has a reasonable chance of defeating.
Anderson and McKeown define a coun
try dissatisfied with its world capability as 
one who, for instance, is not growing in pro---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanJanuary 15, 1985
{c bistro
Le Bistro serves wine from small French chateaux
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Followers of Bacchus with limited finances 
rejoice!
Le Bistro, Parisian Cafe serves 35 wines, 
all selected individually by the owner. Next 
door, La Normande has a larger 
Jr selection, but a dinner for two
*1^^ often runs over $100. The $53.36
V-ft l my girlfriend paid for our din
ner for two last Friday wasnt exactly cheap, 
but she was paying.
Le Bistro is set in a small room, too bright 
for the right atmosphere but quaint enough 
nonetheless. The walls are decorated with 
maps of the wine-making regions of France. 
I always wonder whether Alsace is really 
German or French.
ed (just about perfect timing. Id hate feel
ing rushed knowing how much Leslie was 
paying, yet waiting for service is even 
worse), the mussel salad in a vinaigrette 
dressing arrived. The mussels were easily the 
tenderest Ive ever had. Of course, that 
doesnt help much if, like most people, you 
dont like mussels.
By this time, Leslie was getting full, which 
meant I got half her duck, glazed with honey 
and lemon. Whoever it was that said duck 
is greasy, hasnt eaten it at Le Bistro. The 
glaze turned the skin into a crisp and chewy 
treat, while the meat was greaseless and a 
little gamey, not just a turkey disguised as 
duck.
My frogs legs in an Italian-style, okra and 
tomato sauce were not nearly as good. The 
meat was certainly sweet and tender enough, 
but the sauce wasnt spicy enough to make 
up for the bland meat.
For a beverage, I had a glass of Bourgogne
Blanc, 1982 Dom J. Pascal, a dry, full and 
fruity wine that would appeal to any novice 
like myself. Leslie drank (yes, she found 
room for the wine) Pouilly Fume, Les Bas 
coins, 1982 Masson Blondelet, a sweeter, 
slightly smoky wine. Perhaps the best part 
of Le Bistro for me was that most of the 
wines are from small, French chateaux lit
tle known in Europe, let alone the U.S.
Leslie couldnt fit dessert, but I found a 
comer for a slice of linzer torte, made with 
raspberries and hazelnuts. Somehow, it 
reminded me of a candle shop (if you like 
candles as much as I do, thats good). My j 
mouth felt like it was going to melt.
Sorry, but you dont get to hear about the I 
fireplace, candles and incense afterward.
choice, robust but without the bite some reds 
have.
Soon Maryanne brought the bad news 
that we couldnt get a discount for review
ing Le Bistro (we didnt expect one), and our 
artichoke-mushroom creme soup. The 
vegetables tasted like theyd been marinated 
in a vinaigrette, providing a pleasant con
trast with the smooth creme base.
The pheasant pate with truffles and 
escargots followed. Did you ever know truf
fles are made with onions? I didnt. The pate 
was the best Ive had, without the overpower
ing flavor of giblets usually associated with 
pate. The escargots were served in 
mushroom caps and a butter-Burgundy 
wine-garlic sauce too short on garlic for my 
taste.
About two minutes after we were finish
VictualsSpirits
Anyway, our waitress, Maryanne, was 
friendly and very attentive (we were given 
three loaves of fresh bread by the time the 
main course came, served with the creamiest 
whipped butter Ive ever had, though we 
never finished a single loaf. I guess bread 
gets stale quickly in France). But she wasnt 
annoying.
They were out of Fischer, one of the few 
good French beers Ive tasted (not that Ive 
tasted many), so I had a Kronenbourg, and 
Leslie, who paid for all this, had the house 
red wine. We both agree the wine was a goodLe Bistro is located on Centre Ave. on the 
block to the right of Morewood Ave. Entrees 
range from $7.50 to f11.95. Reservations are 
recommended.PACES HAS A NEW OWNER 
PACES HAS SANDWICHESThe Many Functions of 
The Affordable Futon
kybers* sloppy joes 
turkey 
*ham
* roast beef
on Italian bread
Free Delivery on Saturdays thru Feb. 2 with 
this ad. 20% off platform frames with pur
chase of Futon.I Vi-off I
I sandwiches '
Vi-off coupon 
1 cappuccino
Expires 2/10/85Expires 2/10/85tice creamery... * )
420 South Craig Street * Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 683-2780
Brouwer
ConvertibleFrame
Brouwer 
Bed Roll
The CMU Alumni Association cordially invites you to
Senior Banquet
on Saturday the 2nd of February; 1985 in Skibo.
7:06p.m. Senior Reception in tbe Badruom  ' <3 
i 8.00p. m. Dinner in tbe KiUie DMngMpom s:'tAH Dance in tbe Ballroom Immediately Following
 ; ' . > ,- ly^dj[PW|fleas* respond by picking up your ticket ai the Alumni .
*,' 506 \tamer Halt, by Wednesday the 30tb ofjamuary, 190$. ou mustpreeentyour student I.D. card wbenpicking upyos tiM 
* Dress is semi-format. ^ ^$0
Futon
Linen Closet
Corner of Walnut and Maryland, Shadyside 
M-T-Th-F-Sa 11-6, Wed 11-9 362-8045
Parisian Cafe

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Monkees Day not forgotten among Holidays
By MARK CARR
Tartan Staffwriter
The holidays are over. Not just Christmas 
and New Years, but another very important 
occasion, one most of you probably missed. 
Overshadowed by the celebration of western 
societys two biggest holidays, December 30 
marked the birthdays of Mike Nesmith and 
Davy Jones. Along with Micky Dolenz and 
Peter Tork, these two young men were 
known as the Monkees, those fresh-faced 
kids who barged into your hearts and living 
rooms some nineteen years ago.
David Armstrong Jones was born in Man
chester, England in 1946. He showed an ear
ly talent for show business, acting in amateur 
plays throughout grade school and high 
I school; by age fifteen, he had appeared on 
the BBC. At one point, however, Davy 
almost gave up this promising career to 
{become a jockey. As fate would have it, he 
(landed the role of the Artful Dodger in 
Lionel Barts hit musical, Oliver, and left 
horse racing behind. Davys show business 
"credentials would later recommend him for 
1 a role on NBC Televisions The Monkees. 
Davy was the teeny-bopper idol of the 
| group, contributing little in the way of 
Ssongwriting and playing only the tam
bourine. However, he sang lead vocal on the 
hit singles Daydream Believer, Valleri, 
and A Little Bit Me, A Little Bit You, all 
of which reached the Top 5. Jones is probably the best-known and most recognizable 
if the groups members; when the Monkees 
j|broke up in 1969, he and Micky teamed up 
ith Tommy Boyce and Bobby Hart, playJng the county fair circuit for a while. Boyce 
and Hart were the authors of several 
lonkees songs, most notably the numberone single Last Train to Clarksville and the 
familiar Monkees Theme; they also record
ed the hit song I Wonder What Shes Do
ing Tonight. In recent years, Davy Jones has 
been pursuing a solo career, experiencing 
some success in the Orient.
Mike Nesmith was bom in Houston, Texas 
in 1942. He spent his early years in a poor 
section of the city. It was there, among the 
pool rooms and dimly-lit alleyways of the 
slums, that he fisrt felt the strong rhythmand-blues/country-western influence which 
would show up later in his career.
Mike, an accomplished guitarist and 
aspiring composer, was the most talented 
member of the group. He was also leader of 
the Monkees, battling executives of Colgems 
Records for creative control and a chance 
for the groups members to do their own in
strumental work. Nesmith wrote a number 
of songs for the group, including Sweet 
Young Thing, Girl I Knew Somewhere, 
(the flip side of A Little Bit Me, A Little 
Bit You and a Top 40 hit in its own right), 
Tapioca Tundra, and Circle Sky (from the 
soundtrack of the ill-fated movie Head). 
Most of Mikes compositions had a bluesy, 
country flavor and some his later work 
received favorable nods from critics.
After the demise of the Monkees, Nesmith 
and his associates formed the First National 
Band; this was the first of a trilogy of 
groups he planned to record with. (To date, 
the progression ended shortly after the for
mation of the Second National Band.) Mike 
was the only Monkee to make the charts with 
a solo effort, scoring a hit with the single 
Joanne. As of late, he has been working in 
the music video business, and will reportedly 
return to network television as host of a new
photo by Mike PilewskiDavy Jones (1) and Mickey Dolenz (r) in the Monkees days.
video series. Fans would hardly recognize 
Nesmith now; gone are the mutton-chop 
sideburns and trademark wool hat, replac
ed by close-cropped hair and a thin tie.
A number of startling coincidences sur
round the Nesmith-Jones connection, in
cluding the common birthdate. For instance, 
Mike Nesmith was the tallest Monkee (a 
lanky 6 1), while Davy Jones was the
shortest Monkee (5 3). Nesmith, at age 42, 
is the oldest ex-Monkee; Jones, 38, is the 
youngest ex-Monkee. (Makes you stop and 
think, doesnt it?) There can be no denying 
that something very special happened on 
December 30th. Next time, be sure to cir
cle Monkees Day on your calendar and 
raise a glass of eggnog in honor of Davy and 
Mike.
S'n'S production of Hooters tasteful and enjoyable
By CURT WOHLEBER
| Tartan Staffwriter
Lasr month Scotch n Soda presented 
|Hooters, a two-act comedy by Ted Tally 
ibout friendship, growing up, and, of 
course, sex. The play, directed by Jon R. 
Snyder, appeared before two small but ap
preciative audiences at the Mellon Institute 
iditorium on December 7 and 8.
First produced off-Broadway in 1978, 
j Hooters purports to say something about 
le relaxing of sexua > mores and the chang
ing nature of relationships in the 60s and
70s. Seven years later, with the tide of social 
change moving in the opoposite direction, 
the play now seems somewhat dated. It is the 
story of two guys and two girls who meet on 
the beach at Cape Cod. College student 
Clint (Hannibal Klein) and his high school 
buddy Ricky (Pete Carlin) come to the Cod 
as Ricky calls it, fo soak up some sun and 
engage in the eternal quest for the hormonal 
grail.
As the play opens, Ricky has just spotted 
a perfect TO. But the 10, who is named 
Cheryl (Kate Selverstone), has come with her
friend Ronda (Michelle Osherow) to get 
away from guys for one weekend. Cheryl is 
contemplating marriage to her boyfriend 
back home, but fears that married life, 
especially to a man who files his shirts by 
color and pattern, might be a little dull. 
Ronda is bitter over past relationships and 
is reluctant to get involved again.
When they meet on the beach, Ricky 
comes on strong, doing an energetic inpression of a burning extra from The Tower
ing Inferno. Cheryl is amused by the young 
mens antics and, to Rondas chagrin, the twoelly Green exhibit opens tonight
ly LYNNE M. SCHATZ
to The Trtan
Graphic design students Perry Kirk, Skip 
tally, and Nancy Smith open an exhibition 
ntitled Kelly Green tonight at the Forbes 
allery. The show is subtitled Exhibit work 
nspired by design faculty. The opening is 
rm 7:00 to 9:00.
The title of the show refers to a design 
rofessor, Rob KeUy, who taught all three of 
e exhibitors during their freshman year. 
Sometimes you dont appreciate influences 
Httil you can see an end to your work, or 
F e influences as they appear in your work, 
rld Smith in regards to the shows tide. Kelly 
faught a coloring class.
Perry Kirk is exhibiting mostly black and 
V. *te Photographs. Kirk frequently frames 
^ subjects in a slightly off-center fashion, 
V. f Paying with the juxtaposition of lines 
Pkt to create an internal frame, 
m looking for little scenes to take pie
ces of, sometimes just the extension of the 
ej1 a snapshot, said Kirk, whose photos 
^C|ude several of people and buildings in 
ast ^berty/Penn Circle area. 
am always looking for FREW e can do
within the limits. For example, how much 
depth I can get in the photograph given the 
limitations of a 35mm camera, said Kirk.
Kirk pursues photography avidly, finding 
it to be something Im interested in in con
junction with and outside of graphic design.
Skip Shelly is exhibiting painting as well 
as photography. Shellys photographs are a 
documentary on the buildings and people 
of the Hill District.
Shellys photos depict the kind of people 
who live in an area like the Hill District. Its 
kind of a cliche for a middle class 
photographer to go into an impoverished 
area and bring back images, said Shelly. 
Still, Shelly found the experience to be per
sonally rewarding and informative.
I found a lot of intelligence there, said 
Shelly. There are a lot of people leading 
happier lives in poverty than some people 
who are financially better off."
Shelly also has photographed buildings 
that are being tom down. There are a lot 
of painterly accidents when buildings come 
down, said Shelly. I use the camera as a 
traveling frame to capture these things that 
just happen.
What is learned and experienced in ex
ecuting a piece is more important to Shelly 
than whether or not that piece is finished. 
I think its true of everyones work in this 
show, said Shelly, that its about learning, 
about being a student.
Nancy Smith is exhibiting a series of 
serigraph collage prints that she believes are 
at least partially influenced by the things she 
learned in Professor Kellys class. Smith 
employs found images, such as stamps and 
cigarette boxes, to complete her collages, 
which are also unified by her use of color.
Smith, who will also exhibit photographs, 
finds that working outside of specific graphic 
design projects gives her an opportunity to 
learn and experiment.
Im not worried so much about the 
finished product, or whether whats there is 
right or wrong, said Smith. The 
serigraphs allow me to express things that 
somehow Im not allowed to express in 
design. Experimenting is very important. 
Kelly Green will run through January 20 
at the Forbes Gallery. Gallery hours are 11:00 
to 6:00 Wednesday to Friday, and Noon to 
5:00 Saturday and Sunday.*
girls end up being corralled into in evening 
out with Ricky and Clint. As a result, the 
two friendships are strained: Ricky and Clint 
have to fight over who gets the 10, while 
Ronda is angry at Cheryl for abandoning 
their original plans. That night, at their 
beachside picnic (consisting of heavily-salted 
food and lots of beer), the two guys vie for 
Cheryls attention, all but ignoring the now 
seriously-miffed Ronda.
At the beginning of Act II it is revealed 
that Cheryl has taken the nerdish and ner
vous Clint back to her hotel room, leaving 
the fallen stud Ricky and the abrasive Ron 
da to trade insults on the beach. As the night 
goes on, the four of them learn more about 
themselves and each other. By morning 
everything is fine and Ricky, Clint, Cheryl, 
and Ronda go off to breakfast together, 
broken friendships repaired and all of them 
having gained some important lessons about 
life, along with, presumably, the audience.
Hooters, despite the title and controver
sial logo (with a pair of you-know-whats for
ming the two 0s) provides some good laughs 
along with a few credible moments without 
lapsing into bad taste. The cast performed 
very well together, and while not the most 
profound theatrical experience of the year, 
Hooters was a satisfying alternative to an 
evening of Trivial Pursuit.
ScotchnSoda is looking for students with 
an interest in the theater. In addition to ac
tors and directors, S'nS needs people to get 
involved with production, management and 
other vital behind-the-scenes activities. In
terested students should contact the 
Scotch nSoda office by campus mail at Skibo 
40D, or call extension 3522.

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT SENATE VACANCIES
Student Senate announces openings in the follow 
ing in the following college:
CFA  2
Petitions are available at Skibo Information Desk, and are due at 5:00 pm 
on Friday, January 25,1985. All Activities Fee-paying students in their respec
tive colleges are eligible. If you have any questions, call Larry Bach at 247-7375 
or Jeff Soller at 661-0984.
Student Senate.
We get things done.
Funded by Activities Fee
CAPRI PIZZA
Whn You're Onto A Good Thing, Stick With it!!
Where Today... 
TomorrowLVr.AND EVERY DAY . .
you Get The Best Pizza In Oakland At The Best Price!
oooocoxooooooootxiooociooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
2 *Also For Your Night Life Pleasure* 2I EOPBES STUDIO *A VIDEO DISCO* o
0Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m. M
otx)ooax)Ooaxxxx)ooooooo(raDOOoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
gthi nsdo.T Sm.a rPIa rSa hiChg rIsK. NAhOCCLC
LARGE
 CUT PIZZA including
^2 LITERS OF PEPSI.$2.99*EAT-IN or DELIVERED!b

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
SUPER BOWL XIX
C.D. picks 49ers because of running game, secondary
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
How important is this game? The 
American Broadcasting Company is charg
ing one million dollars for one minute of 
televison commercial time. That translates 
to $16,666.67 for one second.
1 The Presidential Inauguration, 
held every four years on January 
BP 20, was moved this year to 
January 21 in order not to conflict with the 
Super Bowl.
Who is going to win this game? Ah, a 
tougher question may never have been ask
ed. Here is a positional breakdown of Miami 
and San Francisco, attempting to answer 
that question.
First the offense:
QuarterbackThe top rated quarter
backs in each league. Joe Montana is the top 
rated quarterback of all time. Dan Marino 
has thrown more touchdown passes than 
most quarterbacks dream of. Marino has 
completed 64.1 percent of his passes (playoffs 
included), Montana 63.8 percent. You can 
debate among friends all you want. I want 
no part of this. Advantage: none.
Running backsWendell Tyler and 
Roger Craig both outclass anyone Miami 
has. This is the biggest plus for the 49ers. 
Tony Nathan, Joe Carter and Pete Johnson 
all have talent but are inconsistent. Craig led 
the 49ers in catches, too. Advantage: 49ers.
Receivers-The 49ers have Dwight Clark, 
the best posession receiver in the game. They 
have Freddie Solomon, a dangerous deep 
receiver. They have two top-notch tight ends 
in Russ Francis and Earl Cooper. For depth 
they have Renaldo Nehemiah and Mike 
| Wilson. The Dolphins have the Marks 
brothers, Duper and Clayton. Clayton has 
caught 20 touchdown passes this year. Ad
vantage: Dolphins.
Offensive line-The Dolphins gave up 
just 14 sacks all year. They must stop Fred 
Dean and Dwaine Board of the 49ers. Center
*
Dwight Stephenson is the best in the game. 
The 49ers have All-Pros in guard Randy 
Cross, tackle Keith Fahnhorst, and center 
Fred Quillan, plus John Ayers, a great left 
guard. Since the Dolphins dont run often, 
the run blocking doesnt really hurt. Maybe 
a slight edge to the 49ers, but it wont make 
a difference. Advantage: none.
Now the defense:
Defensive lineThe 49ers have great 
depth and strength, starring Dean, Board, 
Gary Johnson and Michael Carter. The 
Dolphins gave up a lot of rushing yards this 
year, and this will hurt them, despite hav
ing three excellent players in Bob 
Baumhower, Doug Betters, and Kim 
Bokamper. Advantage: 49ers.
LinebackersThe Dolphins are hurt by 
A.J. Duhes injury. He still plays, but not 
often and not at full speed. Bob Brudzinski, a great run defender, must be at the top 
of his game if the Dolphins stand a chance. 
The 49ers have Keena Turner, one of the 
best, and Jack Reynolds. These are two good 
groups, but neither dominant. Advantage: 
none.
Defensive backsNo question here. If 
there is a secondary that can stop Dan 
Marino, it is the 49ers. Dwight Hicks, Ron
nie Lott, Eric Wright and Carlton William
son will be severely tested. Dolphin cornerback Dan McNeal is a great one, but he 
could be hurt by the recent death of his 
father. This may be the key position of the 
game. Advantage: 49ers.
Special teamsMiami has the best 
punter in the game in Reggie Roby, but the 
worst kicker in Uwe von Schamann. Fulton 
Walker is a good returner, but not as good 
as the 49ers Dana McLemore. Ray 
Wersching is a good kicker, Max Runager an 
adequate punter - for the 49ers. von 
Schamann really hurts the Dolphins. Advan
tage: 49ers.
Coaches-The two best head coaches in 
the game of football. Advantage: none.
SUPER BOWL ROSTERS
MIAMI DOLPHINSSAN FRANCISCO 49ERS
No. NamePos.Ht.Wt.Yrs.No. NamePos.Ht.Wt.Yrs.4 Reggie Roby......................P6-224324Max Runager...................P6-118965Uwe von Schamann......PK6-118566Matt Cavanaugh.............QB6-22127lODon Strock.........................QB6-52201114Ray Wersching................PK5 11210121 ljim Jensen...........................WR6-4215416Joe Montana......................QB6-2195613Dan Marino......................QB6-4214221 Eric Wright........................CB6-1180422Tony Nathan....................RB6-0206622Dwight Hicks.....................S6-1192623Joe Carter...........................RB5-11198R24Derrick Harmon..............RB5 10202R28Don McNeal......................CB5-11192426Wendell Tyler.................RB5 10200731 Eddie Hill...........................RB6-2210627Carlton Williamson........S6-0204434Woody Bennett................FB6-2225728Tom Holmoe....................CB S6 2180240Mike Kowslowski.............S6-1198529Marloe Clark.....................CB6-2195941Fulton Walker.................CB5-111964RB5 10205442Lyle Blackwood.............S6-11901232Carl Monroe......................RB KR5 8166243Bud Brown........................S6-0194R33Roger Craig......................FB6-0222244Paul Lankford.................CB6-2184342 Ronnie Lott......................S-CB6 0199445 Robert Sowell...................CB5 11175243Dana McLemore.............KR CB5 10183346Pete Johnson.....................FB6-0250849Jeff Fuller...........................S6-2216R47Glenn Blackwood...........S6-01906LB6-2220249William Judson................CB6-11903G6-3265950Jackie Shipp......................LB6-2236R52Blanchard MontgomeryLB6-2236251 Mark Brown......................LB6-2225255Milt McColl......................LB6-6230452Sanders Shivers................LB6-2235956Fred Quillan.....................C6-5266753Jay Brophy.........................LB6-5233RLB6-4225655Earnie Rhone...................LB6-2224958Keena Turner...................LB6-2219556Charles Bowser................LB6-5235362Guy McIntyre...................G6-3271R57Dwight Stephenson........C6-2255564Jack Reynolds...................LB6-12351558Kim Bokamper................DE6-6255865Lawrence Pillers..............DT DE6 4250959Bob Brudzinski................LB6-S223866Allan Kennedy.................T6-7275360Jeff Toews...........................G-C6-S2556T6-82791061 Roy Foster.........................G-T6-4275368John Ayers.........................G6-5254864Ed Newman......................G6-22551271 Keith Fahnhorst..............T6-62731170Bill Barnett........................DE6-4260572Jeff Stover...........................NT6-5275371 Mike Charles....................DT6-4285274Fred Dean.........................DE6-2232107 2 Ronnie Lee.......................G6-4265676Dwaine Board...................DE6-5248573Bob Baumhower.............DT6-52658T6-62952
74Cleveland Green..............T6-3262678Manu Tuiasosopo...........DT6-3252675Doug Betters....................DE6-72657DE6-4253576Steve Clark........................G6-4255381 Russ Francis......................TE6-6242977A.J. Duhe...........................LB6-4235883Renaldo Nehemiah........WR6-1183378Charles Benson................DE6-32672WR6-32104
79John Geisler......................T6-52606TE6-3225R
TE6-3230587Dwight Clark.....................WR6-42156
81Jimmy Cefalo....................WR5 11188688Freddie Solomon.............WR5-111881083Mark Clayton...................WR5-9175289Earl Cooper......................TE6-2227584Bruce Hardy.....................TE6-5232790Todd Shell.........................LB6-4225R
85Mark Duper......................WR5-9187394 Louie Kelcher...................NT6-531010
87Dan Johnson......................TE6-3250395Michael Carter.................NT6-2281R
88Vince Heflin......................WR6 0185397Gary Johnson.....................DT6-226110
89Nat Moore.........................WR5-9188999Mike Walter......................LB6-32382
IntangiblesIt is a very big advantage 
that the 49ers have not had to leave the Bay 
Area for for seven weeks, and get to play the 
Super Bowl less than an hour from their 
practice facility in Redwood City, Califor
nia. No team has ever won 18 games in a
year. The 49ers will be shooting for that.
PredictionA high-scoring game, San 
Francisco will win 34-27. If Miami scores 
over 40 points, they will win, but I dont 
think they will.
hico predicts Niners in best ever Super Bowl
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Special to The Tartan
Super Bowl XIX. Another classic match
I up. Boy, havent we heard that one before. 
[A matter of fact we heard it as late as last 
years fiasco when the Los 
Angeles Raiders blew out the 
JjjS" highly touted Washington Red. skins, 39-9.
So, whos going to win this year? The 
l-Miami Dolphins, led by the most awesome 
passing attack in the history of football, or 
the San Francisco 49ers, who have the most 
innovative and brilliant coach in all of 
football?
Before we get to the nitty gritty reasons, 
[ets around with some statistics first.
Common opponents There are four 
|eams who have played both of these squads: 
ittsburgh, Philadelphia, Houston, and 
ashington. In these games, Miami is 5-0, 
ncluding the 45-28 playoff victory over the 
feelers. the 49ers, on the other hand, are 
' Vvith their only loss coming to the 
i>teelers, 20-17. What does this tell us? 
nS' so lets move on.
i Record on grass fields  Since this 
^e is being played on natural turf field 
tanford Stadium in Palo Alto, lets see 
squad has a decidable advantage. 
e ^lphs record is 10-2 on grass while San 
''(cord is 11-1. What does that tell us? 
lrig. so Jets move on.
3. AFC vs. NFC in Super Bowl  The 
AFC up till now has a prohibitive margin 
over the NFC, 12-6. So I guess you could give 
Miami a nod here, but only a slight one.
4. Favorites vs. Underdogs in Super 
Bowls  Disregarding spreads, the favorites 
have a 13-5 record on Super Sunday. Since 
the 49ers are a slight favorite, this time you 
have to give them an advantage.
Enough with the Pete Axthelm imitation. 
I think San Francisco is going to beat Miami. 
Heres why:
In the games that Miami has lost this 
season, the Dolphins have been caught up 
in high scoring battles. Pittsburgh tried to 
do it last week, but they didnt have the 
firepower. Thus, the only way to beat Miami 
is not to stop Dan Marino but to make sure 
that your team has the ball when the time 
is running out. Does San Francisco have the 
capabilities to match Marino stride for 
stride? The Niners averaged 29.68 points per 
game during the regular season.
b. San Francisco always has a knack of
MIAMI DOLPHINSSAN FRANCISCO 49ERS
MIAMIOPP.SFOPP.
FIRST DOWNS....................437344FIRST DOWNS....................403333
By Rushing...........................133140By Rushing...........................152117
By Passing............................273192By Passing............................234186
By Penalty............................3112By Penalty............................1730
3RD DOWN EFF...................49.640.23RD DOWN EFF.................46.435.4
TOTAL NET YDS..............79106142TOTAL NET YARDS........7165'604
Total Off. Plays................12111174Total Offensive Plays......11951167
Avg. Gain..........................6.535.23Average Gain Per Play...6.04.8
NET YARDS RUSHING...21952349NET YARDS RUSHING...27552031
Total Rushing Plays........557508Total Rushing Plays........591489
Avg. Gain Per Rush........3.944.62Average Gain Per Rush..4.664.15
NET YARDS PASSING....57153793NET YARDS PASSING....44103573
Sacked/Yards Lost...........14-12844 357Sacked/Yards Lost...........34-21466 476
Attempts/Completions639-410622-350Attempts/Completed........570-356612-336
Percent Completions. ..64.256.3Percent Completions......62.554.9
Had Intercepted....................2127Had Intercepted................1528
Avg. Gain Per Play.........8.755.70Average Gain Per Play...7.305.27
PUNTING...............................56 44.293-41.6PUNTING...............................70 40.992 40.9
KICKOFF RETURNS.........50-18.275-20.6 *KICKOFF RETURNS.........51-21.586-19.5
PUNT RETURNS.................46-8.819-7.9PUNT RETURNS.................51-11.735 6.4
PENALTIES-YARDS71-557100-882PENALTIES-YARDS........108 933100-798
FUMBLES  LOST...............27-1126 14FUMBLES-LOST................27-1231-14
coming up with a great game plan against 
great team. Take, for instance, the cham
pionship game against Chicago. Coming in, 
the Bears had been known for their ferocious 
defense which crushed Joe Theisman like 
grapes in Chicagos first playoff game. In 
order to combat this charge, Walsh chang
ed his offensive lines whole blocking schemes 
around. It got to the point where the Niner 
linemen were complaining to Walsh because 
the coach wanted them to block in a man
ner that violated their basic fundamentals. 
At any rate, San Fran won 23-0.
c. The 49ers have not played a road game 
since December 1st. Since this game is right 
down the road from their practice field, San 
Francisco will again be able to practice at 
home. This has got to give them a more 
relaxed feeling heading into Super Sunday.
d. No doubt about it, this game is going 
to be close, and you cant win close games 
without a good field goal kicker. Miamis 
Uwe Von Schamann is probably the worst 
field goal kicker in all of football. He was
11 of 24 on field goals this season and didnt 
kick one through over 40 yards all year. His 
inabilities will hurt Miami.
Forecast  No doubt about it, this is going 
to be the best Super Bowl of all time. I dont 
care what happened last year. Its the con 
frontation of two exceptional football teams 
who are heads above the rest of the league.
continued on p*g 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanJanuary 15, 1985
Tartans split two PA C games as conference season begins
CMU leading 
Nard look on
scorer John 
for W&J.
photo by Erik Horn
Taormina handles the ball as John Achille (25) and Craig
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
CMU opened the ,PAC against W&J 
Wednesday night with a loss to the 
Presidents, 74-59, despite a strong second 
half effort.
The outcome was never really in doubt. 
W&J led 10-2 after just four minutes of the 
game. CMU cut the lead to eight points in 
the second half, but that was as close as they 
got. W&Js Tony Torchia scored 17 of his 22 
points in the first half to lead the Presidents. 
John Taormina led the Tartans with 26 
points and 12 rebounds.
The Tartans shot just 38 percent, while 
W&J shot 56 percent. Taormina was 12 of 
18, 67 percent. The rest of the team shot a 
collective 14 of 50, 28 percent. This must be 
improved upon if this team is going 
anywhere this season. Their current 2-8 
record says they probably wont. W&J rais
ed their record to 7-3.
CMU also shot only 44 percent from the 
foul line. According to sources close to the 
team, they do shoot a lot of foul shots in 
practice. It isnt working.
SUCCESS
At ROLM, we believe there is no single way 
to be successful. Rather, we believe success stems from 
the creativity and ambition of the individual. 
That's why we re committed to creating an environment 
in which motivated people can succeed. The risk 
in this approach is high, but the rewards are greater.
ROLM. We create an atmosphere for success.
The rest is up to you.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING, COMPUTER ENGINEERING, 
COMPUTER SCIENCE AND TECH WRITING MAJORS: 
We'll be on Campus January 22, 23
At that time, we'll ask you to share the re
sponsibility for discovering where you best fit 
in ROLM. Consider working on one of our 
project teams in software areas such as voice 
and data communications, distributed data 
base management, integrated voice-text ap
plications, data, voice and network architec
ture, or Ada.
Explore a team hardware design position in 
areas such as digital telephones, voice and 
data communications, local area networks 
and packet switching, or analog, digital and 
VLSI design.
Or, you can talk with us about combining 
your hardware, software, and customer-ori
ented skills in the areas of product support, 
production, field service or sales engineering.
Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, 
ROLM designs, manufactures and markets 
computer-controlled business communica
tions systems, and the most advanced rugged 
environment computer systems in the world.
Sign up with your Placement Office for an oncampus interview, or forward your resume 
and letter of interest to Vicky Anderson, Engi
neering Recruitment, M/S 350, 4900 Old 
Ironsides Drive, Santa Clara, CA 95054.
PRE-INTERVIEW PRESENTATION
Monday, January 21 
Skibo Hall, Rm. 112 
7:00-9:00pm
We are proud to be an equal opportunity/ 
affirmative action employer.
RObm
There were bright spots. CMU outrebounded W&J 49-35, and took fourteen 
more shots. Until these shots start to fall, the 
Tartans wil continue to lose games.
Tom Franklin had five assists in limited 
time. Franklin continues to lead CMU in 
assists (third in PAC with 4.1 per game) 
despite not getting many minutes. He also 
drew a charging foul on Alan Brodstock, a 
man 8 inches taller and many pounds 
heavier than Franklin. Michael Stewart, the 
starting point guard, has just ten assists in 
ten games.
In basketball action over the break, CMU 
finished fourth in the Ohio Wesleyan tour
nament. In the opening game, the Tartans 
lost to the host team 92-63. Hart Coleman 
led the Tartans with 13 points and 12 re
bounds. Taormina had 12 points.
In the consolation game, CMU lost to 
Rose-Hulman Institute. Stewart had 14 
points, Taormina 12, and Dwayne Waite had 
11 rebounds.
Late Saturday, CMU scored their First PAC 
win of the year, as Stewart hit two key free 
throws late in the game to defeat the Grove 
City Wolverines, 58-56.
Taormina again led the Tartans with 20 
points. George Debski had 13 and Stewart 
finished with 10. Dwayne Waite had nine 
points and eight rebounds.
Speaking 
IM sports
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
Youve had your vacation, you are now 
supposedly well rested, now its time to get 
back in shape after all the fun youve had 
over break. Here is the intramural sports 
report.
BASKETBALL
Every year, basketball is the most popular 
intramural sport. There are often over 100 
teams playing in four leagues. If you want 
your team in the league you want to play in, 
you have just a few hours left. Deadline is 
today at 4:30 p.m. There will be no exten
sions. The rules meeting is today at 4:30 also 
in the womens gym. Each team manager 
must attend this meeting. Games start 
January 16th.
HANDBALL
Basketball not your style? Handball rosters 
are due today at 4:30 also. If you want to 
use your hands, get those rosters in. 
FOOTBALL
Rich Trombetta, quarterback of major 
league champion Pika, has been named 
Most Valuable Player of the intramural foot 
ball league.
VOLLEYBALL
Theta Xis A-Team was the winner of the 
major league playoffs of three-person 
volleyball.
UPCOMING SPORTS
One of the most exciting days of the I M 
year is the wrestling tournament, to be held 
Saturday, February 16, from 9:00 a.m-10 
5:00 p.m. Practices will be on the following 
days: Sat., Feb. 2, 12-5 p.m., Fri., Feb. ^ 
4:30-7 p.m. Entries are diie January 24. P^j 
up entries in the I.M. office (room 101, gyw
Two new sports have January 24 deadline 
Pinochle and Floor Hockey. Also due that I 
day are rosters for Water Basketball'|rj 
which a team must have a certified l'e| 
guard on duty for each game.
IM NOTES
A local league needs basketball offic^5 
See E.J. Birdy, or call x2214. Mr. Dirk KaW 
donated a gift to the I.M. dept. The ne^j
continued on

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1985-The Tartan-Page 11
iattura
Basketball Box
W&J 74 CMU 59
W&JFGFTTPCMUFGFTTP
Torchia10-132-322Coleman5 150-210
Potkul. 3-55-27Waite1-61-23
Bradstock5-85-715Neff0-20-00
Nard1-70-22Stewart2-90-04
Achille7-153-517Taormina12-182-526
Sheetz1-10-02Bart1-32-24
Connolly1-11-23Franklin0-01-21
Conn2-42-2, 6Debski4-101-29
Brown0-10-00
DeVries1-40-12
Totals30-5414-2374Totals26-687-1659
FG%: W&J .556, CMU .382.FT%:W&j .608,CMU .438.
Rebounds: W&J 35 (Torchia 10), CMU 49 (Taormina 12). Assists: W&J 17 (Potkul 6). CMU 14 (Franklin 5). Referees: Floyd Shuler and Frank Smizik.
Bergman picks 49ers
photo by Dewey Rieder
against Penn State.
continued from page 9
The key to the game is Joe Montana. He 
must have a great game for the 49ers to win. 
If he is just average like he has been in the 
last two weeks, Don Shulas squad will take 
it. However, I believe Montana will come out 
strong and San Francisco will win 38-34.
Bettors guide  Take San Francisco and 
give the points and bet over.
Stock tip  The Monday after the Super 
Bowl has been a predictable one at the stock 
exchange. If an NFC team wins, the stocks 
go up and if an AFC team wins, the stocks 
go down. So, invest accordingly.
held 
i. to
.15,
pick
sHlines,
that
1 lift
Ice Tartans 
to Pitt, 
feat PSU
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
[Tartan Xews Editor
CMU-went to the Lakeview Ice Palace to 
Im their game in order and get back on the 
inning track after a 1-3-1 start. They acomplished only half the task.
Despite their "best game of the year acording to freshman Ralph Pastor, the Ice 
lamms were defeated by an agressive Pitt 
earn. 5-1. Momentary defensive lapses and 
penalties hurt the Tartans, whose lone goal 
vas scored bv freshman left wing Marty 
jorman.
Gorman slid a backhand past Pitt goalie 
im Godwin early in the game to give Tech
10 lead. Pitt came back to tie the game 
1 on a controversial goal. It looked as if 
itt crossed the blue line off sides, but the 
[eferee ruled that the left wing had his skate 
in the blue line as they crossed.
1 he next goal may have been the turnng point. Tartan denter Don Heyse broke 
I >ose for a breakaway, but goalie Godwin 
I >rced Heyse to shoot wide. Pitt came right
I ack and scored on goalie Bob Kosakowski
II the other end.
I Pitt entered the third period with this nar 
>"' 2-1 lead, but wore down the Tartans 
ith hard checking, a few cheap shots and 
strong offense to score three goals.
Pitt s captain, defenseman Damon Jones. 
as an impressive skater and checker, but 
iii(l a habit of hitting someone after every 
ner tie up. The referees lost all control 
l< in the game. At one point, a Pitt forlaid tried to rip the helmet off of Mike 
I alloran with Hallorans head still in it. I he 
lltl player had about a one foot height adIimage. 1 he referee called equal penalties.
I "as that type of game.
I (s Boh Koch sat out the game with 
I I'1 oken wrist.
I Sunday afternoon, the offense, which has 
I ad a tough time putting the puck in the 
let late, defeated Penn State 9-0. RobI
aiz had four goals and one assist; Eric 
5ray three goals and one assist; Sean 
'cGinn and Steve Desrochers each had one 
a* I he victory puts the Tartans at 2-4-1 
ir the season.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 15, 1985
Martial Art Club
The objective of the CMU Martial Art Club is to train a well rounded individual in the field of martial art. We seek to explore variety in the oriental art of self-defense from which an individual can select the techniques that he or she can adapt to best Martial art training increases physical fitness and awareness of the mind and body and so can f be called an art of self-cultivation.CMU Martial Art Club instructs these arts:Tae Kwon Do Karate, the way of the hand and foot, the Korean style known for its spectacular and devastating kicks: and Ju-Jitsu. based on opponent manipulation, principles of motion, and throwing
Head Instructor  Robert Opal sky Special Guest InstuctorCurtis Smith
Meets at Thistle Hall
I CMU Gymnasium
Monday  8:30-10:00 PM 
Wednesday  7:30-9:00 PM
Beginners are welcome
Super Stats
RUSHING
No.Yds.Avg.TDs.Wendell Tyler, 49ers....27013655.14Roger Craig, 49ers.........1737274.27Tony Nathan, Dolphins1556984.51W. Bennett, Dolphins..1636804.51Joe Carter, Dolphins....1014994.91Pete Johnson, Dophins..1042662.612Derrick Harmon, 49ers.432094.91Joe Montana, 49ers........472034.32Bill Ring, 49ers................401674.23A. Franklin, Dolphins..20743.70Freddie Solomon,49ers..67212.01Mark Clayton,Dolphins.33511.70Earl Cooper, 49ers.........3134.30Carl Monroe, 49ers........3134.30Nat Moore, Dolphins...133.00
RECEIVING
No.Yd*.Avg.TDs.
Mark Clayton, Dolphins82155919.020Mark Du per, Dolphins..79148618.810Roger Craig, 49ers..........757069.43Tony Nathan, Dolphins737139.82Dwight Clark, 49ers......65107516.57Freddie Solomon, 49ers.5190417.712Nat Moore, Dolphins...4761813.17Earl Cooper, 49ers.........4345910.74Dan Johnson, Dolphins.3442612.53Bruce Hardy, Dolphins.333219.76Wendell Tyler, 49ers....322788.72Russ Francis, 49ers........2631412.13Mike Wilson, 49ers ......2230714.01Jimmy Cefalo, Dolphins2022811.43Ren. Nehemiah, 49ers..1936719.32Joe Rose, Dolphins.........1423616.92Jim Jensen, Dolpnins__1315910.72Carl Monroe, 49ers........1113912.61joe Carter, Dolphins....8536.60W. Bennett, Dolphins..7649.11John Frank, 49ers...........7608.61Bill Ring, 49ers................3103.30Derrick Harmon, 49ers252.50
FIELD GOALS
0-4040TotalWersching, 49ers.............20 258-1528 40von Schamann Dolphins. 11150-911 24
Forward Lanes now hasALL-NIGHT BOWLING
from midnight to 5 am 
Fridays and Saturdays 
$20 per lane 
only 5 minutes from campus 
for more information call 432-5844
Friday and Sa.urday NigWs
12 a.m.  J a n
Were now open 24 hours everyday
athPa/ik
Murray Ave., Squirrel Hill
IM Report
continued from page 10
meetkig is January 24-, at 2:00 p.m. in room
101 gym. Please note new meeting time.
ALL-SPORTS TROPHY
Pika leads the standings for this new 
award, with 68.0 points, mostly by virtue of 
winning major league football. ATO, semi
finalists in football and soccer, and finalist 
in table tennis, is second with 65.5 points 
while PiLam is next with 59.85.
Catch Our Late Show!
A CD. Marino, Dolphins..630 404J. Montana, 49ers..........505 322M. Cavanaugh, 49ers.. 62 34D. Strock, Dolphins__ 6 4J. Jensen, Dolphins.... 1 1T. Nathan, Dolphins.. 1 1
64.163.854.8 66.7
100.0
100.0
57674172452273514
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANGER  CAREER DOUBTS
 FAMILY TROUBLES  DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS  
SEXUAL QUESTIONS  MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS
 LACK OF MOTIVATION  SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patients are students.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi
dential psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Browa Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
%
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center
211 N. Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service

---------------------------------------------------

Your college degree plus Air Force ROTC participation equals a 
commission as an Air Force officer. Its our formula for success. 
The Air Force needs bright young men and women who are major
ing in many engineering and scientific fields.
AFROTC offers 2 through 4-year scholarships which can help 
offset the high costs of a college education, plus youll receive 
$100 per academic month for living expenses. After graduation 
and completion of Air Force ROTC, youll be an Air Force officer 
with responsibilities working in a high tech environment with 
modern equipment. The Air Force can put you and your degree to
good use right away.
Find out more about Air Force ROTC and what it holds for your
future by contacting:

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Out with the old, in with the new
A year ago a group of editors with 
an excess of energy and ideas took of
fice at The Tartan. We like to think 
our results were good.
The Editorial section was moved 
from the front to the back of the 
paper. This change, like others we 
made, were all undertaken to 
strengthen the newspaper. We tried 
to print a news section of at least four 
pages in each issue. We thought there 
was at least that much important 
news every week.
We worked to open up our opinion 
and editorial pages to the campus. 
Through such series as The Greek 
View, The Libertarian Alternative, 
student government president Bill 
McCormicks perspective and Presi
dent Cyerts occasional column, we 
sought out other peoples ideas. The 
administration, Student Senate and 
the Greek community for the first 
time had a real voice.
We feel the past year has been a 
good one, but the soapbox is begin
ning to creak beneath our load. The 
reins of The Tartan are going to be 
passed to a new Editor-in-Chief, who 
has just as much energy and en
thusiasm as those of us stepping 
down.
One final word for those whove 
read this far. It hasnt been easy put
ting The Tartan together the past 
year. For better or worse, weve shown 
up on Sundays weekly to produce the 
best newspaper we know how. At 
most schools, editors are paid either 
in academic credit or hard cash. 
Sometimes it seems that The Tartan 
is paid in hard knocks, but we hope 
we have made something worthwhile 
here and there.
We wish Stephen and the new staff 
good luck. We know that there will 
be times when theyll need it, just as 
we know that their paper is going to 
be worth reading. Stay tuned.Lessons of the ZBT incident
Now that the furor of the MMA 
incident has died down, and the 
Special Appeals Board has made its 
final decision (see page 1), its time 
to analyze the series of events trig
gered by the incident. An encounter 
between fraternity members and 
Korean students eventually grew to 
embroil much of the University in 
controversy; we must take the oppor
tunity to examine, with the benefit 
of hindsight, how to avoid such con
troversy in the future.
The administration and the 
students. Were the decisions made by 
the administration unfair? 
Throughout the proceedings, 
students questioned the validity of 
the administrations responses, and 
even its right to make a response. 
But, contrary to this typical anti
authority reaction, we think the ad
ministrations decisions were fair and 
responsible.
Zeta Beta Tau was on probation, 
and had been warned about reaction 
to future incidents. The administra
tions decisions were not made to pre
vent bad press, nor were they made 
out of a prejudicial dislike for ZBT.
Rather, they followed a hierarchy of 
disciplinary actions, and loss of 
charter was the final step in this 
hierarchy. What students have to 
realize is that stereotypes such as Ad
ministrators dont like students are 
rarely, if ever, valid.
The media. While the administra
tion was deliberating over the fate of 
ZBT, coverage in the local 
newspapers only added fuel to the 
fire. The Pittsburgh Press and PostGazette immediately assumed an 
anti-fraternity bias. The Press, in not 
reporting all the facts, made it seem 
as if the fraternity was in
discriminately attacking students. 
The Post-Gazette went so far as to 
liken ZBT to Animal House. Even 
The Tartan mislabeled the incident 
as a brawl.
We can not easily change the way 
the Press and Post-Gazette report. In
deed, we can not control inaccuracies 
on their part. However, we at The 
Tartan are most responsible for 
reporting the activities of this cam
pus; therefore, the incident serves to 
heighten our awareness of how fine 
the line between fact and sensaLetters:
The difficulty with the Software 
Engineering institute
Editor:
I am writing to you concerning the seesaw 
of opinions regarding the Software Engineer
ing Institute that have appeared in the local 
papers recently. At the onset, let me say that 
I share Profe*or Wolfensteins concern about 
the censorship of research results.
This is a grave condition for any academic
institution to accept in order to guarantee 
funding, but not one uncharacteristic of the 
Department of Defense. Normally, computer 
science firms specializing in military research 
and applications accept grants under such 
provisions.
However, a university is not a consulting 
continuad on paga 17
tionalism can be.
Access to information. Unfor
tunately, some of the inaccuracies in 
our reporting, and part of the 
widespread confusion felt by the 
campus, were directly attributable to 
the lack of official information releas
ed. While confidentiality is 
sometimes a necessity, in excess it 
hampers The Tartans role as the 
most important source of campus 
news.
Both The Tartan and Student 
Senate were crippled in their efforts 
to represent the best interests of the 
campus community because the on
ly evidence available was hearsay and 
rumor. We urge the administration 
and campus organizations to release 
information more freely when an 
event is of precedent-setting impor
tance. Such openness will help to 
lessen confusion and misconceptions 
. . . and would have helped in this 
case.
The return of ZBT. A further in
dication of the administrations sound 
reasoning is their offer to let ZBT 
reorganize. The fraternitys return
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Ltttm to the Editor are opinions of mdnndual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
will be difficult, and if they form a 
colony it will most likely be subject 
to a hazing from other fraternities 
similar to the one they received last 
semester.
ZBTs members now have two 
choices. If they decide not to form a 
new chapter, they will have succumb 
ed to the ill will felt by only a minori 
ty of the campus. If they do return 
and successfully form a new frater 
nity, they will have proven their right 
to exist as a campus group, more so 
than any other. The Tartan hope 
that the responsible, competent 
members of ZBT have the courage 
accept the Universitys offer.
TheTartaiv
Editor-in-Chief .....................Ric Medn
Managing Editor..................Mike Pit
Business Manager-----Neil Greenbl
News Editor.............Christopher Le
Entertainment Editor .... Ric Me*
Sports Editor..........................Don
Photography Editor .... Mike F 
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesnj
Ad Manager.......................Steve Vr
Typesetting Manager-----Jill C
Art Director.........Michael A. Su
Assoc. Business Mgr. ... Bonnie ^ 
Assoc. Features Editor Neal W. Joh
Asst. News Editor...............Karen
Asst Sports Editor-----John Fr*
.... Paul M
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. .. - Joe
Asst Art Director..............Mark
Contributing Editor.........Pauline
...............Scott
Editorial Assistant.........Mohan
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, 
BJanck, Tina Hatchl, Mark Lieberman 
Masalsky.
Copyright 1984 by The Tartan. The Editt^ 
reaerves the right lo withhold from pubicaoon 
it deems unfit lor publication.

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1985The TartanPage 15
enate can handle 
our campus needs
By MICHAEL BETT
If you ever wished that you could change 
omething on campus, but you didnt know 
here to start, then this column is for you. 
Student Senate is here to serve the campus 
community, and Im going to tell you how 
ou can best abuse Student Senate for your 
lWn benefit.
Since this is the beginning of the semester, 
this should be a good time to tell you how 
/on can solve any academic problem that 
iou may encounter. This includes; but is 
lefmitely not limited to: being wait-listed 
from a class, dissatisfaction with a professor 
>r department for any reason, or needing 
in additional course offered. The Academic 
[fairs Committee, chaired by Cindy Taylor, 
rill help you with these problems and others, 
[n addition, please note that the Academic 
iffairs Committee always welcomes comlendations for professors; these will be sent 
the department and are weighted 
ignificantly in the decision for tenure.
If you would like to add something to 
ipus life, we can do that too. The General 
ampus & Information Committee, chaired 
Peter Cohen, processes complaints and 
iggestions concerning student affairs. The 
tC&I Committee is also active in in?stigating problems that occur around 
campus but are not of an academic nature, 
[his committee tries to make life on campfas more pleasant by seeking policy changes 
the auxilliary services which include UDS, 
[ousing, and the Bookstore. Usually, sugitions for policy changes come from 
idents and are accepted by the administra>n when presented by Student Senate.
a/7 Tobias
Maybe youre thinking about forming a 
club; if so, then the Rules Committee, 
chaired by Larry Bach, can help. They will 
give you all the information you need for for
ming a club, as well as decide what status 
your club should receive: service, funded, or 
non-funded. Clubs must be recognized by 
Senate in order to be allowed to meet on 
campus and have club rooms on campus. In 
addition, the Rules Committee keeps an upto-date list of the active clubs on campus and 
makes amendments to the Student Constitu
tion. Both the club list and constitution are 
available on-line in [SS2P] on TopsE.
Finally, if you already belong to a club 
that is funded by Senate, then your club 
must appear once a year before the Finance 
Committee, chaired by David Goldstein,, for 
a budget hearing. Working closely with 
Dean Cox, the Finance Committee plans the 
allocation of our Student Activities Fee. If 
your club is planning a fund-raising event 
or needs money for an unforseen purpose, 
the Finance Committee can help you plan 
your clubs budget, or resolve a financial 
crisis.
Together, the Academic Affairs, GC&I, 
Rule, and Finance Committees are here to 
serve you. If you need something done, 
Senate can get it done. Our meetings are 
each Tuesday night in the Wherrett Room 
at 7:00 p.m. and are always open to the cam
pus community. Feel free to come and bring 
us your problems, complaints, or questions; 
or just come to observe. Working together, 
we get things done.
Michael Bett is a junior majoring in 
Mathematics and is chairman of Student 
Senate.
I have decided to take a break from 
litics for a while and write some columns 
bout campus matters. My opponents 
wouldnt breathe a sigh of relief, though; 
still intend on writing columns on politics 
I om time to time; however, since the new 
phasis of The Tartan is on expanding its 
>verage of CMU-related things, I will also 
columns on campus topics.
For the last couple of years, the Universihas been adopting policies aimed at 
E M P*ac^ng mainframe computers and ter0 1 mals with personal computers. While there 
I e many positive aspects to this, I think that 
I ey sometimes go a little too far in their 
I adlong dash to PC-ify the campus. I am 
l^ticularly referring to their closing of the 
j|d Wean Hall 5th floor terminal room, in 
|der t0 0pen yet another p^; cluster. 
jfl ClearlY some of the reasons I have for op
ining this move are sentimental. That terI nal rom had.been an important fixture 
I ^ves f students in computer-related 
|-as ^ere fr many years, and it had a
I atmosphere to it. The new PC rooms,
II their antiseptic corporate-style ap arance, the User Consultants supervising 
H rybody, and the once-omnipresent Coke
 ttes now forbidden, just dont feel the
 ne And the rows of identical IBM PCs
'^>vThave thes * W llOOs, FOXes
fl|;t 2i/$
B^owe
KlS^ I have the same feel as the old VT52s, 
etc. whose quirks I spent my 
years at CMU getting used to. 
ever, there are also some practical 
 ns why that closing mught not have
In ]SUC^ 3 ^OOC* ^ea- The 5th-floor tero rm had the characteristic of being 
V terminal room on campus that was 
n^2^en- Even during vacations it was 
l e ^ Thus, a student feeling the
t0 hack, or just check his electronic
Fantasy of a news editor
fhere have all the terminals gone?
mail, always had a place to go regardless ot 
the date or time.
This is no longer true. The new PC 
clusters need constant supervision, and can
not be left unattended like the Wean ter
minal room was. Thus, although some of 
them are open 24 hours during the school 
year, their hours slacken off during holidays 
and vacations, so on the Sunday before 
classes started this month for instance, I ar
rived back to the campus to find no ter
minals available anywhere. Also, the PC 
clusters are frequently reserved for classes 
and workshops. It is for these reasons that 
there ought to be an unattended terminal 
facility left open somewhere which is always 
available to students.
Another thing is, despite the big PC push, 
there are still many courses, and non-class 
activities such as sending electronic mail or 
bulletin boards, which use the TOPS-20 
systems. Thus, there is still some practical 
value in having terminals, rather than PCs, 
in some places. Using a PC as a terminal is 
cumbersome, requiring that a disk be check
ed out from the user consultant and booted 
up. Also, some other perils have turned up, 
such as the notorious password nabber who 
reportedly wrote a program on the PC to 
steal peoples passwords as they logged in. 
Additionally, it is a waste of University 
resources to put in lots of expensive PCs 
when they are mostly used as terminals 
anyway. Some mixture of PCs for those who 
need them, and terminals for those who only 
wish to log in, would be more economical.
Thus, while I think PCs are very useful 
for many purposes, and I think the concept 
of a PC cluster is a good idea, I also think 
the University has gone too far in replacing 
all terminals with PCs. It would be better 
if they left some plain old terminals for those 
students who use the mainframe computers.
By KAREN GRAY
Have you ever, after hours of feverish 
work to conceptualize, produce, and im
prove a product, thought, Why am I do
ing this? Of course you have. All of us at 
CMU plod continuously toward our diverse, 
often distant goals. The important thing for 
each of us to do is remind ourselves for our 
reasons to continue. The following is a 
reminder to myself about why I am the new 
news editor of The Tartan .
(now putting on patriotic hymnal)
I have a dream. I have a dream that one 
day, thirty-five motivated, personable 
writers will march in the door single-file, 
proclaiming, Yes, Karen, wed love to write 
for you, and well have it in by deadline! 
I have a dream that one day, people from 
all walks of CMU life will loudly proclaim, 
Yes, we understand the importance of hav
ing a good student newspaper  and well 
help you make the deadline!
I have a dream that one day, faculty 
members I need to interview will not fly to 
Los Angeles five hours before I plan to ap
proach them.
I have a dream that one day, The Tar
tan will be the kind of newspaper that serves 
its readers well enough to enable them to be
well-informed, about both campus and out
side events which affect them. I have a 
dream that, at that exact moment, students 
will realize how much more control they 
could have over what happens to their 
university, if only they tried a little harder 
to understand how the Flashcube works...
I have a dream that one day, little drama 
majors and litde engineers will play together 
in harmony. More importantly, they 
together will write the articles which will be 
judged not on the students major, but on 
the content of the article! This is the dream 
I have today!
So let the news ring out from Skibo! Let 
the news ring out from Flashcube Warner! 
Let the news ring out from Fraternity 
Quadrangle! Let the news ring out from the 
Hill Dorms to the Mudge fountain, and 
everywhere!
Above all, let The Tartan be the wellwritten voice of the students its readers 
deserve.
(now removing patriotic recording)
Thank you for letting me share my 
thoughts on this overworked evening. Thank 
you, and God bless.
Karen Gray is a sophomore in English and 
News Editor-elect of The Tartan.
Catogs Prs Sarvice

---------------------------------------------------

Our Full Service 
Salon Offers:
HAIR CUTTING *HAIR COLOR BODY WAVES *JERI CURLS CAREFREE CURLS RELAXERS Call TodaySalvatore Puccini can help you achieve that certain look of success for the many times of your life. Step into Puccinis where our skilled professionals qffer the finest elements of hair design.
Salvatore
PUCCINIPrints and Slides from the same roll
Hair Design
110 South Bouquet St 
Oakland 
621 2087PRESENT THIS VALUABLE COUPON FOR YOUR
FANTASTIC SAVINGS
ON THREE COMPLETE HAIRCUTS 
! FOR ONLY '
Kodak MP film... Eastman 
Kodaks professional color 
motion picture (MP) film 
now adapted for still use in 
35 mm cameras by Seattle 
FilmWorks. Its micro-fine 
grain and rich color satura
tion meet the exacting 
standards of the movie 
industry. Shoot in low or 
bright light from 200 ASA 
up to 1200 ASA. Get prints 
or slides, or both, from the 
same roll. Enjoy the very 
latest in photographic 
technology with substantial 
savings.
500 Lincoln Hwy. 
Great Valley Mart 
North Versailles 
823-7100
Rt. 19 & New Freedom Rd 
Cranberry Mall 
776-1521
Convenient Day 
& Evening Hours
Just stop by our Oakland location by Jan. 171985 with these coupons and your $30.00 for validation 
Your next 3 haircuts can be at your convenience during the spring term.
INTRODUCTORY 
OFFER
? Rush me two 20-exposure rolls of your leading KODAK MP filmKodak 5247 (200 ASA). Enclosed is $2.00. Id like to be able to get color prints or slides (or both) from the same roll and experience the remarkable versatility of this professional quality film.
NAME
ADDRESS
Limit 2 rots per customer
Kodak 5247 is a registered trademark of the Eastman Kodak Company.
Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks P.O. Box C-34056 Seattle, WA 98124e 1984 Seattle FtfnWore
United Way. thanks to you it works for all of us!Take advantage of this opportunity to 
shape your future and ours.. .join a 
company that gladly makes space for 
the new expressionist. Tomorrow is 
taking shape at a company called 
TRW.
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required
On-campus interviews 2/5, 2/6 
See your placement office for details.
There's Always 
Space for the 
New Expressionist
At TRW's Electronics and Defense 
Sector, we recognize the value of new 
ideas. We provide an environment 
with space for free thought and 
expression. To us, you are tomorrows 
source of talent and creative energy. 
With us, you can reach deep into the 
expanses of your imagination and 
help to develop technologies that 
literally reach beyond the stars.
Our informal and encouraging 
atmosphere has produced a galaxy of 
opportunities... encompassing large 
software computer systems, 
communications and scientific 
spacecraft, alternative energy sources, 
high energy lasers, and
microelectronics development. These
opportunities are open to you. ElBCtTOfHCS
& Defense Sector
------- ---------------------------------------------------;-------:. , ,  . ---------------------------:---

---------------------------------------------------

January 15, 1985The TartanPage 17
Letters:
continued page 14
firm nor a Department of Defense contrac
tor, and there are good reasons to prevent 
it from becoming one. For one, knowledge 
is a social phenomenon. If universities and 
the Department of Defense insist on halting 
the free flow of information through a
I discipline, the pluralism of ideas which 
drives academic investigation will cease.
In addition, ask yourself how young 
scholars can possibly exist under such con
ditions. Junior professor and graduate 
students have to be able to publish articles 
to gain peer recognition and tenure. 
Refereed publications also serve as a qualitycontrol filter on work in progress. Current
ly, if you cant publish your research, chances 
are that it isnt of sufficient quality to be 
recognized by your peers. If publications are 
halted or inhibited, where will the next 
generation of educators in our country come 
from, and on what criterion will their 
research be judged?
As far as I can glean from the handwaving news releases describing the SEIs 
purpose, it is to aid in the transfer of 
technology from computer science to comImercial engineering. Why then do these ap
plications have to be kept secret? I can only 
uspect that national security is at stake. 
If this is so, what moral issues are involved 
Bin research at the Institute, and is it wise that 
university become embroiled in immoral 
ilitary research?
Now for a bit of ancient history. Back in 
[. the late sixties or early seventies, Stanford 
niversity supported a research institute like 
El. Fortunately, they got caught doing nasy research (immoral) like calculating 
aturation bombing patterns for nuclear 
arheads, among other groovy things, 
proar by the student body caused the exommunication from the university proper, 
nd it became a private consulting firm. Toay, this research institute is one of the 
rimary military contractors for military aplications in computer science.
| The question we must ask is whether or 
ot the SEI should be associated with the 
niversity proper, or should it become an 
utonomous research unit unto itself? If, in 
act. the SEI is to remain an arm of the
Pregnant? Call AT A
Lets talk about your options
Canng and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
lotline: (412)731-2420
teburgh 731-2420
'Washington, PA 225-6494 
tentative* to Abortion, Inc.
a non profit orj*nti*in
, Stanley H. KaplanThe SmartMOVE!
PREPARATION POR:
GMAT  LSAT  GRE
MCATDAT
oSHHf
661-2772
I(SB EDUCATIONAL CENTERCORNER CENTRE A NEGLEY AVE. AT SAUM SCVD
-H.K
university, how can we prevent or restrain the 
Institute from undertaking research of an 
immoral character?
One way to maintain the security of the 
research projects would be to make all 
research proposals pass a peer review board 
staffed by faculty and student represen
tatives. I believe that it is a university regula
tion that psychological experiments on 
humans be made to pass a peer moral 
review, so why not institute the same for 
computer science research at SEI? Insted of 
judging the effect of an experiment on a in
dividual, we might ask is this research 
benefical to society at large, or the preser
vation of the species?
To conclude, I urge the student body, 
staff, and faculty to seek out the issues in
volved here. They are complex indeed. A 
dangerous consequence, I fear, of the CMU 
acceptance of the censorship condition, is 
that it will establish a precedent with the 
Department of Defense; such that, the DOD 
will expect and require all academic institu
tions to follow suit. This would be a 
disastrous violation of our academic 
freedom, and our right to freedom of 
speech.
Philip Werner 
History and Psychology 82 
Graduate Student 
Department of Computer and Informa
tion Science 
University of Massachusetts 
Amherst, MA 01002
L-U 11 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 11 I I I I I I I I I I M ITTIPICKER
Where High Science Comes To Life.
... and it can al begin for you Monday, January 28,1985, when 
our representatives visit your campus
High Science . . . a term that points sharply to a crucial link at Picker: the link 
between the challenge of applied sciences and the achievement of technological heights. Look beyond Pickers world of medical diagnostic imaging, and nowhere will you find challenges more bracing or achievements more enticing 
to your pride. At Picker, we are leaders in magnetic resonance imaging (MR), conventional and digital radiography and fluoroscopy, ultrasound imaging, computed tomography (CT), nuclear medicine and more. Future developments in diagnostic imaging will create tremendous opportunities for Picker International 
and its employees.
Heres where you come in! Picker would like to talk to bright, upcoming graduates who wish to be closely associated with some of the most remarkable technologies in the entire high-tech spectrum. Were seeking top grads with the following degrees:
 Electrical Engineering
 Physics
 Computer Engineering 
or Science
You will make vital contributions in the following areas:
 Research  EngineeringManufacturing Service Engineering
At Picker you can look forward to working with a progressive, people-oriented management team who will respect your professionalism and your desire to advance along a chosen career path. For these and other reasons, doesnt it 
follow that Where High Science Comes To Life is where your career should 
come to life, too?
See you Monday, January 28, 1985.Details available from your placement office.
PICKER INTERNATIONAL
M I I I M I H I I I M II I I I I I I I 11 I I I I I ITTTTTI
MICROSOFT WILL BE ON CAMPUS JANUARY 18,1985 TO INTERVIEW EXCEPTIONAL SYSTEMS DESIGN PROGRAMMERS
Microsoft Corporation develops the leading edge in microcomputer systems 
software. Our BASIC is world renowned. Our XENIX and MS-DOS operating systems 
have computer companies and others chomping at the bit. We design state of the 
art systems software.
We need programmers to work on Operating Systems, Compilers (FORTRAN, 
COBOL Pascal, BASIC, C), Data Base Management Systems, Word Processing, 
Interactive Systems, Graphics and more.
Our OEM customer base is a Who's Who of the hardware business (IBM, Apple, 
Radio Shack, Intel, Tektronix). As new systems like the IBM PC and new processors, 
like the 68000 are developed, Microsoft's programmers get their hands on the 
machines before they go into production. So your hardware suggestions and 
software innovations during R&D become part of the computers of the future.
Microsoft provides the best systems programming work environment
 all the high-level hardware (DEC-20, PDP11, VAX, SUN 68000 machines) and 
software development tools you'll need, in a
 small company with lots of interaction and sharing of ideas and methods where
 you can develop your full potential.
And to make a good thing better, Microsoft is located in the Great Pacific Northwest 
with
 mountains, skiing, ocean, desert, rain forest, rivers and lakes all with easy reach
 major cultural sports, social and commercial activities fifteen minutes away in 
Seattle.
We are looking for exceptional software design programmers  those with 
intelligence, drive, and a commitment to excellence.
We want programmers who will create Microsoft High Performance Software 
Microsoft offers an excellent compensation and benefits package. Jo Ann Rahal, 
Technical Recruiter, Dept. WZ, MICROSOFT CORPORATION, 10700 North up Way, Box 
97200, Bellevue, Washington 98009. We are an equal opportunity employer.
We will be interviewing on campus Friday, January 18,1985. Please contact your 
career placement office for schedule information.
MICROSOFTThe High Performance Software*

---------------------------------------------------

er ho
& *
WE PUT ITsV
z
m m m
/
the lifestyle you are seeking for putting down personal roots, plus the standards of challenging technological excellence can be found a\ Honeywell. Honeywell Test Instruments puts it all together for Electronic Engineering graduates in Littleton, Colorado. ,/ //Jfie Quality of the Colorado tffestyle is unique. In the Denver metropolitan area, we are considered a recreational paradise for the year-round sports enthusiast. Housing is affordable and our growing community features many fine cultural opportunities.
The quality of a Honeywell Test Instruments career is also unique. We are a pace setting leader in the manufacture of sophisticated industrial electronic equipment. Our engineers are involved in an exciting small-company team environment, yet holding careers with a Fortune 100 multi-national corporation. We are still growing. Creativity and commitment are rewarded with advancement opportunities. i:::i / / / / / / / / //' , / / Jf J' y1 / / /If you want your lifestyle arid workstyle to have a unique quality, come up to Honeywell in Littleton, and put it all together.
BSEE GRADUATES 
SIGN-UP 
FOR
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
January 21, 1985
AT THE CAREER SERVICES AND 
PLACEMENT CENTER
 J 4f /Honeywell
Together, we can find the answers.V
DATE
Mon., Jan. 2ist
SPRING
CARNIVAL
BOOTH
MEETINGS
TIME ROOM IN SKIBO
5pm13
Mon., Feb. 4th7pm12
Equal Opportunity Employer
Mon., Feb. 18th7pm39
Mon., Mar. 4th7pm12
Mon., Apr. 1st7pm12
DO YOU WANT TO BE A
RESIDENT
ASSISTANT
NEXT YEAR?
Applications will be available at 
the Selection Interest Sessions on
Sunday, January 20 at 9:00pm
Tuesday, January 22 at 9:00pm
Wednesday, January 23 at 9:00pm
in the Wherrett Room
You must attend one of these sessions to apply 
Applications Due: Friday, January 25
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
m 
|I
nI SAVE $2.60
IIon aPRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling 
Regularly
Offer expires
EMPCCJRTiMS
l_ AV
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want. That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind. . .at a price you can afford. 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
COLOR PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES
$25.00
WASH. CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
NoAppointment
cxpccjimens
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
Mon.. Tues . Wed. 10-7 607-3500
Thurs.. Frt. 10-9 No Appointments
Sat 9-6
UNISEX HAIR SALON

---------------------------------------------------

Fmes,
oe FreshmanBy Mark Levine
PvH, vw/rr A wwTpsmKr 
Off f\ MESftP./ OEVKJ& A 
05EI:CONSULTANT IS 
0t5t tSOi ?Vi 60T W 
own desk, A Trminal.
T heNewspaer o f
( / TO WM ACC10NTALLY 
(SET K1 IfcWiNM-ONfKfc
By Maszle and Beyeroindexter
TVITfON
ightgn-Wc&t uice 
miw&p.prrorat
The United Campus Ministry of Pittsburgh 
serving Carnegie-Mellon University, Carlow 
College and the University of Pittsburgh. 
nuites you to share in
A SERVICE OF AFFIRMATION AND RENEWAL
To installThe Rev. James B. Miller as UCM Campus Minister
Sunday, January 20th, 2 p. m 
The Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Carnegie-Mellon Vniuersity
rs.cdw neocesK .TTSwT eHH*TcdScesK
FINANCIAL AID APPLICANTS 1985-86
financial Aid Applications for the 1985-86 academic year will be available for pick-up in the Financial Aid Office, 216 Warner Hall, after February 4, 1985. Please insure that you apply before MAY 1,1985, unless otherwise specified by your particular state grant agency. Please note the following 
specific state grant deadlines:SENDliterature to
Dossierc/o The Tartan Skibo rm.50
Deadline for next issue is
January 25,1985
New Jersey  October 1, 1985 (Only renewable students need to apply) Ohio  August 16, 1985*** Pennsylvania  May 1, 1985*** Rhode Island  March 1, 1985 Vermont  March 1, 1985 West Virginia  March 1, 1985
MEETthe Dossier staff every Monday night 
7:00 Skibo rm.50
CONFUSED?call Michele Keane at x2111
 *  _ n order to apply for this state grant, you must 
complete a separate state grf^t application.non-renewals 
- renewals

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
CLASSIFIEDS
Anxious? Lonely? Depressed? Trouble with 
family or friends? Sexual questions? Marital or 
parenting problems? Lack of motivation? Sleep
ing or eating problems? Talking about your life 
with a psychotherapist may help. A private clinic, 
we offer confidential, insight-orientated 
psychotherapy at moderate fees. Approxiamately half of our patients are students. Insurance ap
proved. Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center 
661-2300.
Come share ina Service of Afffirmation and 
Renewal to officially celebrate the beginning of 
the campus ministry of the Rev. James B. Miller 
as a staff for the United Campus Ministry of Pitt
sburgh. This ecumenical service will be held at 
2:00 p.m. on Sunday, Jan. 20th, in the Wherret 
Room of Skibo. All university students, faculty 
and staff are cordially invited to attend.
THE GUEST HOME at White Oak for Business 
Travel, Relocation, Education, Emergency, 
Tourism. Fine quality; member of Pgh. B&B. 
(412) 751-7i43.
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Letter or 
typeset quality resumes, cover letters, papers and 
manuscripts. Floppy disks available. Van Sickels 
731-8978.
Female Roommate wanted to share 3-bedroom 
house in Squirrel Hill. Good location, bus line, 
shopping. Graduate or older student preferred. 
$140 * V utilities. Call evenings 422-4248; ask for 
Diane or Patti.
Word Processing: Manuscripts, resumes and cover 
letters, dissertations, term papers; Exact 
copy/editing available, 24-hour service, 
621-8544/681 5416.
CMU Explorers Club has trips on most 
weekends. X-C skiing, caving, rock climbing, 
kayaking. Everyone welcome. Meetings every 
Thursday 6:30 Skibo Rm. 12. Funded by your Ac
tivities Fee.
Low cost home style lunch at Lutheran center, 
4515 Forbes, 11:30 to 1:30 weekdays.
Attention Social Chairperson: PROTON is 
ready to rock and roll your next party. Live music 
from the 60s through the 80s. Call 681-3203 or 
731-2143 evenings.
LOST:Ignition key w/black plastic head. Lost 
Wed. morning either in Skibo Parking Lot, or 
between Wean Hall. Please bring to Wean 6211. 
LANGUAGE CONSULTANTS  TUTORING:English as a second language; Spanish, 
English. ACADEMIC EDITING: Term papers, 
dissertations. Evenings and Weekends. 421-9239 
Seven-room house with front and back yards and 
garage, next to Schenley Park (Bartlett St.) $600*. 
Call Maria at 521-4257.
Applied nonviolence as an alternative to the 
Arms Race  Sociology 175, Carlow College, ,2 
or 3 credits; Tuesdays, January 22  April 23, 
6:30-9:00 p.m. Intstructor: Dr. Liane Norman, 
for more information, call Pittsburgh Peace In
stitute, 687-4753.
Creative, compassionate counseling to reduce 
your stress, to enhance your functioning. Con
tact Margaret Laske, M.S.W, at 421-5219.
GREGMAT-LSATMCAT DAT
QCORE HIGH
. Build the confidence that comes from thorough, effective
W preparation. Your true abilities, even your GPA may be
meaningless if you are unfamiliar with or "freeze up" during your 
admission exam. Unfortunately, your undergraduate training 
alone may not be adequate to prepare you. That's where GAPS comes in. Test 
strategy and content orientation can make the difference. Home study course 
consists of lecture tapes and written materials that cover every topic area you'll 
be expected to know. Practice exams indicate areas of strength and those 
needing additional review. Graduate Admissions Preparation Service will give 
you the knowledge and competitive edge you need to succeed on these 
important exams 
Prepare and you 
can excel.
Please send me more information
no p a boxes please
Send to: G.A.P.S., 500 Third Ave. W., Box C-19039,Seattle, WA 98109 Call toll-free: 1-800-426-2836
.................J
"AN EXTRAORDINARY MOVIE!
-Newsweek David Arisen
So compelling and convincing you cant 
tear your eyes from the screen. It is not 
to be missed.
-Newsweek David Ansen
The best film Ive seen this year. 
At its best, movies just dont 
get any better.
-Good Morning America Joel Stegel
FREE SCREENING
Warner College Showcase
TUesday, Jan. 15 
7:30 p.m. 
Squirrel Hill Theatre
Please arrive early as seating is limited and on a fwst come first serve basis
Parsons School, of Design
Special Summer Programs
France 
Italy 
Japan 
West Africa 
Lake Placid 
New York City
International programs offer courses including 
painting, drawing, printmaking, fashion, graphic 
design, photography, decorative arts, architec
tural history, art history, ceramics, fibers, metals, 
surface design and papermaking. Undergra
duate and graduate credit is available to 
qualified students. For more information, mail 
the coupon below or call the Office of Special 
Programs: (212) 741-8975.
Parsons School of Design 
Office of Special Programs 
66 Fifth Avenue 
New York, NY 10011
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer 
Programs.
Name ____________________________________
Address
City___
State__-Zip
I am an ? artist ? teacher 
? college student
