NEWS---------------------Page 3
Andrew Computer System and New Ter
minal Rooms
FEATURES..................Page 16
Spring Carnival provides a great escape 
and lots of fun
The Tartan
Special Issue Carnegie Mellon University Spring 1988
Carnegie Mellon University is...
Innovation
From the first classes held in 1905 at Carnegie Technical Schools, where tuition for day students was $20 a year and for night students was $5 a 
year, this school was innovative. Today, with all the advancements in technology, and thinking, Carnegie Mellon is still innovative.
In the past 83 years of CMU history, this school has seen changes, progression, and advancement tough to match.
Engineering/Science: The curriculum ranks in the top ten in the nation. We are on the forefront of the computer and robotics age. Our 
Robotics Institute, developed only eight years ago, is one of the largest and most advanced in the world. Computers are an integral part to the 
learning process in all aspects of study.
Business: Carnegie Mellon's school of Industrial Administration, eighth ranked business school in the nation, has produced top executives all 
over the world, including the top executive of Xerox.
Fine Arts: Ted Danson of Cheers, Michael Tucker of LA Law, Andy Warhol: Our alumns are well known and respected from Broadway to 
Hollywood.
Humanities and Social Sciences: Where else can you find a professor diverse enough to teach Psychology, be one of the fathers of 
artificial intelligence, and emerge as a Nobel prize winner in Economics? We have the oldest Technical Writing program in the country, 
and a distinctive Information and Decision Systems program.
Carnegie Mellon strives to be the best at everything it does. We have some of the most highly rated programs in the nation. We are not 
known as just an engineering school, or a fine arts school, but a well rounded, innovatve institution of higher learning.
People
People make Carnegie Mellon what it is. From our founder, Andrew Carnegie, who dedicated his life to advancing technology and spreading 
knowledge, to our current university president who holds these ideals paramount, it is the people of this university that are its heart and soul. 
When you come to CMU, be prepared to work hard you'll be challenged and pushed to the edge of your limits. You'll stay up all night 
writing a program, working on a problem set, or putting the fine details on a painting, because you'll come to demand the same excellence of 
yourself that your professors do. You may lose some sleep, but youll grow and change in ways you cant imagine now. And when youve 
turned in your homework, finished your exam or performed your scene, you'll feel better than you ever have before. Because youve accom
plished something you didn't think was possible.
Faculty members work hard, too many are experts in their fields, renowned for their research, published books and articles, and artistic 
endeavors.
Sure, it's hard. But the hard work pays off. Carnegie Mellon is well known, and respected. Your degree from this university will open many 
doors to your future.
Andrew Carnegie came to the U.S. from Scotland in 1848 and at 13 worked as a bobbin boy 
in a cotton factory earning $1.20 a week. By the end of his life in 1919, he had given away 90 
percent of his wealth - $350 million.
Andrew Carnegie made a career of philanthropy. He donated over two thousand libraries, 
music halls, established hospitals, and donated monuments to peace such as the Pan American 
Union Building in Washington D.C. He gave Scotland $10 million, half to pay fees for poor 
students, and the other half for the improvement of schools. He endowed the Carnegie Institu
tion with $25 million to promote knowledge in all universities of the United States. And, of 
course, in 1900, founded Carnegie Technical Schools in Pittsburgh, which grew into the 
Carnegie Mellon of today.
In 1912, the school became Carnegie Institute of Technology and in 1967, it merged with 
Mellon Institute to form Carnegie Mellon University.
Traditions
Carnegie Mellon is a school rife with traditions. Tartan, for instance, is a powerful 
andwell-known word at the school. It represents the Scottish heritage we were 
founded on. It is our newspaper, a dining facility, and several sports teams. Our 
school colors are the Carnegie Tartan plaid, the same ones the Carnegie family wears. 
Our school flower, the thistle, is abundent in Scotland. Our student union, Skibo, is 
named for Skibo Castle, Carnegies Scottish retreat Bagpipes are plentiful during special 
campus events, the mascot is a scottish terrior, and the marching band wears kilts. (With 
Tartan plaid boxer shorts underneath them, or so we're told). Other popular and unusual 
traditions include:
Spring Carnival and Buggy: (see pages 16-17).
The Fence: Legalized graffiti! A most bizarre method of saying something to the whole 
campus. The fence, built in 1922, is wooden with about a gazillion gallons of paint on it 
Strict tradition dictates that it must be painted in its entirety, and no painting may be done 
during daylight Usually, students guard their finished paint job all night long, to make sure 
that no one else paints over it before morning.
Greek Sing: Dancing girls? Guys in dresses singing 'La Cage Aux Folles"? All fraternities and 
sororities participate in Greek Sing, the annual excuse to make a fool of yourself on stage. 
Traying: On Flagstaff Hill (right next to campus), in the snow, using trays "borrowed from 
the dining halls.
Tricycle Races: No, that's not a typo. Held during Homecoming, along with the Highlander 
Games, a sublime andunusual mix of traditional Scottish recreation activities.
Beaux Arts Ball: The party s so big, they can only hold it once every 5 years. The most 
mystifying, magical masquerade ball this towns ever seen  and the next ones in 89.
The Natrat: Every April Fools' Day, we at The Tartan, ...well, maybe we'll just wait until 
you get here before we tell you about that one.
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL, DRUE MILLER & GRANT CARMICHAEL
History

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 The Tartan Spring 1988
Carnegie Mellon University does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national or ethnic origin, sex, 
or handicap in the administration of any of its educational programs and activities, in accordance with applicable 
federal statutes and regulations. Inquiries concerning application of this policy should be directed to the Senior 
Vice President
Admissions Office Admits All
By KIM JESSEN
Admissions Counselor
In co-operation with the student editors 
of The Tartan, the Carnegie Mellon Admis
sions Office has created this special issue 
for your reading enjoyment. Each weekly 
edition of The Tartan includes fast break
ing news, features, editorial, entertainment, 
comics, and sports information. All of the 
events included in this issue actually occured and were reported in the course of the 
1987-1988 academic semesters at Carnegie 
Mellon, unless otherwise noted
Most of the articles in this paper appear 
in their entirety and we hope that they will 
entertain, inform and illustrate the real 
life of Carnegie Mellon students. It has 
been our objective to represent the atmos
phere, attitudes, and aspirations of this cam
pus community as depicted through the 
Carnegie Mellon student media.
Many thanks to Industrial Management 
junior Albrecht T. Powell, my Co-Editor, 
few his time and expertise in the production 
of this issue. All photos and copy are credi
ted to The Tartan staff, unless otherwise 
noted.
Israel and CMU Sign Agreement
Dry Rush not Expected to 
Effect Pledge Class Size
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter
On Friday December 11, Carnegie Mellon 
announced that it had reached an agreement 
with the State of Israel to cooperate with Israeli 
universities in educational computing.
The agreement, which signifies Israels 
intent to collaborate, was signed only days 
before violence and civil unrest broke out on 
the Gaza Strip.
Israeli Vice Premier and Minister of For
eign Affairs Shimon Peres, who signed the 
accord, spent part of the day on campus meet
ing with Carnegie Mellon President Richard 
Cyert, the Director of the Robotics Institute 
Raj Reddy, and Jean-Jacques ServanSchreiber, Chairman of Carnegie Mellons 
International Committee.
Peres is the head of Israels labor party. He 
has called for an international conference that 
would setde conflicts in the Middle East.
The joint project, under the direction of 
Reddy, will create computer networks be
tween Carnegie Mellon and five Israeli uni
versities.
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
A Dry Rush policy has been imple
mented for all fraternities this year for a desig
nated two week period beginning on Monday, 
September 14.
According to this plan, fraternities will 
have two weeks to have parties and activities 
to try and attract potential pledges, but will be 
prohibited from serving any alcohol at these 
events.
According to Greek Advisor Ron Campana, the decision to implement dry rush was 
jointly made by members of the Greek com
munity and the University. Other schools 
around the country have already established a 
dry rush policy, including the University of 
Pittsburgh. The national chapters of many of 
the Carnegie Mellon fraternities were really 
pushing [dry rush]. Campana added that he is 
glad that the students played a role in the 
decision making process and because of this 
the fraternities are not really opposed to the 
plan.
Inter-Fraternity Council President, Freder
ick DeLeon, stated that the dry rush policy was 
instigated by the IFC after a request was made 
to them by the administration.
The general consensus from the fraternities 
is that the two week dry rush period is fine, as 
long as the fraternities can have wet parties in 
the two weeks prior to the rush. Delta 
Upsilons Rush Chairman, Doug Carey, 
agrees with the schools decision, Other 
schools are going to a dry rush, and we should 
too. In terms of attracting people to the house, 
Carey stated, Its better this way. Last year we 
had a half-wet/half-dry rush period. This year 
everyone knows what nights are dry and can 
better plan for those nights. In this way, the 
weeks before dry rush can actually be used as 
a type of pre-rush.
One pledge at Phi Kappa Theta said that the 
policy is nothing more than a double stan
dard. The school wants to have a dry rush that 
it can show off to the alumni, parents, and 
other universities, while at the same time al
lowing the fraternities to have wet parties that 
they can invite freshmen to.
The school does not prohibit fraternities to 
advertise wet pre-rush parties, nor does it 
prohibit the fraternities to admit freshmen. 
We leave that up to the discretion of the 
individual fraternities, commented Cam
pana. The school does not police fraternity
The agreement, however, does not cover 
any specific projects. It merely signifies an 
intent to conduct joint research.
Other projects that may be conducted in
clude direct satellite communications, data
base knowledge, expert systems research, and 
joint education efforts.
Although Israel will be receiving the bulk 
of the immediate benefits, in the form of ac
cess to technological developments, the rela
tionship will be mutually beneficial.
As an example, Reddy pointed out that the 
Israelis may discover flaws in the Andrew 
system while trying to convert it to use He
brew. Any adaptations created by Israeli uni
versities would then be available to Carnegie 
Mellon.
Joint projects will allow CMU researchers 
to tackle interesting problems that they other
wise would not encounter.
With Peres approval, Servan-Schreiber is 
conducting similar discussions with some of 
the Arab nations in the Middle East. He de
clined to name the other countries at this time.
This accord is a product of a conversation
Servan-Schreiber had with Peres several 
years ago. The Foreign Minister was origi
nally set to visit CMU in May 1987, but had to 
postpone the trip.
Many of the people involved in the agree
ment expressed hope that this project will lead 
to an easing of tensions between Israel and its 
Arab neighbors. Servan-Schreiber said that 
he believes Carnegie Mellon may be able to 
help bring the Arabs and Israelis together.
Researchers at CMU have developed a 
computer system that translates between 
Japanese and English. A similar system for 
Hebrew and Arabic could ease communica
tion between Israel and her neighbors.
Also, such a system could increase trade 
between Israel and other countries. Increasing 
economic ties among Middle Eastern nations 
could reduce tensions in the area.
Israel has occupied the Gaza Strip and the 
WestBank since the Arab-Israeli war of 1967.
parties (wet or dry); they are regulated by the 
existing school rules. Rules regarding the 
serving of alcohol, however, are made up by 
the Council of Fraternity Presidents, headed 
by Jordan Aberman who could not be reached 
for comment Naturally, added Campana, 
some [freshmen] do slip through the cracks 
and attend wet parties.
Campana does not expect any fraternity to 
violate the dry rush policy once rush begins. 
Internal peer enforcement will play an impor
tant part, he said. Everyone wants to get off 
on an equal foot so the fraternities will keep 
an eye on each other to make sure that every
one complies with the rules.
However, some houses already have bro
ken some of the rules and have received 
monetary fines. One of the regulations regard
ing advertising of the wet parties is that the 
flyers and posters are not allowed to say 
Freshmen Invited. Related to this rule, no 
fraternity can distribute a monthly calendar 
which includes both wet and dry nights on it. 
Phi Kappa Theta received a fine for this of
fence. Calendars advertising only the two 
week dry rush period are allowed. Also, adver
tising few any party could not begin until after 
August 30. Delta Tau Delta got fined for 
breaking this rule. Fines begin at $25 and can 
double for each successive offence.
The main problem with any dry rush, ac
cording to Carey, is that when potential 
pledges come to a dry party, they may not be 
seeing the fraternity (or the Greek community) 
as it really is. Carey added that since the dry 
rush is new to the school, there is really no way 
to determine how it will affect the size of the 
pledge class.
Sophomore Theta Xi pledge, Roy White, 
disagrees with this analysis. The Greek sys
tem is the attraction, not alcohol, stated 
White. I dont think [dry rush] will change the 
size of this years pledge class.
Alpha Epsilon Pis only problem with the 
dry rush is the time limit We have a dry rush 
regardless of policy, stated one AEPi mem
ber. However, with only two weeks, were 
really going to have to work hard. It was better 
last year with four weeks few rush.
Since alcohol is prohibited, most fraterni
ties will rely on specialty foods, movies, or 
spewting events to be the primary attractions 
during the rush period. Study breaks and spe
cial activities are planned few the entire period, 
not just the weekends.
At that time, Israel was totally surrounded by 
hostile nations. In 1979 Israel made peace with 
Egypt
Neither of the two major political parties in 
Israel hold a majority of the seats in the Israeli 
parliament In a power sharing arrangement  
between the parties, Peres served half a term as 
Prime Minister and is now serving half a term 
as Foreign Minister.
Because of this awkward coalition of op
posing parties, Peres peace efforts have 
stalled.
Palestinian leader Yassar Arafat indicated . 
last week that he would recognize Israels right 
to exist, if it would attend an international % 
peace conference.
Carnegie Mellon has been involved in simi
lar projects in the past with universities in 
Japan, Europe, Brazil, and other countries. 
This agreement is the first which CMU has 
reached with a foreign nation as a whole.
Above: These four were bashed and bowled over at the Watermelon Bash - the 
traditional beginning of Greek Rush.
Below: University cookout prior to a Tartan football game.
September 1987 - February 1988

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988 The TartanPage 3
Andrew Getting BetterNew Baker Computer Cluster 
Officially Opened to Students
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Andrew 
Computer network, developed together with 
IBM in 1982, will implement two additions to 
improve the current system. A dictionary, the
saurus, and spelling corrector from Houghton 
Mifflin Co. and Kyoto Common LISP (KCL) 
software from Ibuki are to be added.
KCL software was purchased in order to expand the Andrew Computer networks capabili- f ties to teach and research artificial intelligence.
The American Heritage Dictionary, Sec
ond College Edition, will provide the on-line 
user with 200,000 words, along with usage 
notes, pronunciation, etymology, definitions, 
A 211(1 other information. The Rogets II Elec
tronic Thesaurus will have synonyms and 
definitions for about 45,000 words.
The spelling corrector will verify that 
words are spelled correctly, and present sug
gestions for those which are misspelled. The 
Right Word Usage Alert system will identify 
homonyms (such as hear/here) and other 
commonly confused words, and offer other 
g alternatives with definitions for nearly 1,600 
words.
Ibukis KCL software was purchased in 
order to expand Andrews capabilities to teach 
and research artificial intelligence. William Y.
^ By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Contributing Editor
Georgia Techs ninth president selected, 
announced the headlines of the Universitys 
student newspaper, The Technique. The an
nouncement on August 5 came after several 
months of searching. The man who will fill the 
position is Dr. John Patrick Crecine, who steps 
down as Senior Vice President for Academic 
. Affairs here at Carnegie Mellon. Crecine will 
take his new position full-time November 1;
 
Arms, Vice President for Academic, com
ments on the advantages of having the KCL: 
[It] has a system that runs on many different 
vendors hardware and doesnt need a power
ful workstation to run on.
According to Alan Sobel, research pro
grammer in psychology, the KCL software 
will serve in the interim for artificial intelli
gence teaching and research for the current 
UNIX 4.2 BSD environment while the Com
puter Science Department develops a power
ful Common LISP which will require a 
MACH base to yet be developed.
until then, he will work at both Universities.
In an interview Friday, Crecine said that for 
him, the transition would be an easy one in 
terms of the types of institutions. Georgia 
Tech, which is part of Georgias state school 
system, emphasizes science and engineering. 
The long-run agenda at Georgia Tech is to 
continue its improvement as a university, and 
its evolution into a world-class institution.
Crecines Humanities and Social Sciences 
background makes him an anomaly at both
By CHRIS CULVER
Tartan Staffwriter
Theres a new computer cluster on campus. 
Its in 140 Baker Hall where the old Design 
Typography Lab was located, and it is the most 
up to date cluster yet. Officially opened on Au
gust 31, its prime purpose is for Computer 
Skills Workshop (CSW) classes. However, 
the cluster does have some public hours,
Carnegie Mellon and Georgia Tech. However, 
Crecine said he plans to draw on that back
ground to broaden the notion of a first-rate 
technological education, during his tenure. 
Crecine is pleased with the academic stan
dards already in plaCe at the university. 
Georgia Tech has an excellent undergraduate 
body  every bit as good as Carnegie 
Mellons.
Crecines departure will mean reorganiza
tion in the upper echelons of the Carnegie 
Mellon administration. The position of Vice 
President for Academic Affairs will be elimi
nated, and most speculation points to a singleprovost system in the future. In the past, Car
negie Mellon has had a two-provost system 
with Provost Angel Jordan in charge of CIT 
and Crecine in charge of the three other under
graduate colleges, School of Urban and Public 
Affairs (SUPA), and the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration (GSIA).
Crecine believes that the administration 
will also be moving more responsibility into 
Bill Elliots court Elliot is currently the Vice 
President for Admissions and is a possible 
candidate for Vice President for Student Af
fairs, a position that does not currendy exist, 
but one many people are pushing for.
Regarding the potential administrative 
changes at Carnegie Mellon, Crecine said, I 
strongly recommended to the President that he 
take on some of my responsibilities directly, 
including attention to computing and curricu
lar matters. Crecine believes that the new 
structure will be better for the University.
Crecine, 47, received all three of his de
grees at CMU, including a B.S. in Industrial 
Management in 1961, a masters in Industrial 
Administration in 1963, and aPhD in the same 
field in 1966. After teaching for several years 
at the University of Michigan, Crecine re
turned to Carnegie Mellon in 1976 as Dean of 
Humanities and Social Sciences and Professor 
of Political Economy. In 1983, Crecine moved 
up to the position of Vice President for Aca
demic Affairs.
which should increase next semester as the 
number of CSW classes decreases.
This cluster has some new hardware which 
isnt found in any other public cluster on 
campus. There are two separate rooms, one 
containing workstations and the other contain
ing personal computers. One room holds 20 
SUN 3sconnected to the Andrew system. The 
other room contains 20 double-drive IBM
PCs, placed side by side with 20 Macintosh 
SEs, an updated version of the Macintosh 
Plus.
This new Mac features two internal 800k 
drives, along with one megabyte internal 
memory. They also feature a new extended 
keyboard, similar in design to the Andrew 
workstation keyboards. These seem to be 
much easier to use than the standard Mac 
keyboards. All of the Mac are connected to an 
Apple LaserWriter through an Appletalk net
work.
The other new feature of the cluster lies in 
the IBM PCs. The PCs of this cluster are 
connected to a token-ring, which is a local 
network with a central hard-drive, thus mak
ing it much easier to prepare CSW classes. 
Similarly during public hours, the attendant 
will not have to hand out common PC soft
ware, such as Kermit, Scribe, and Epsi
lon. These PCs are all connected to a Hewl
ett-Packard printer through the PC network. 
There is also a strong possibility that there will 
soon be a printer installed for the SUN 3s too.
The Baker Hall cluster is opened to the 
public from 9 pm to 3 am weekdays, 12 pm 
to 12 am Saturdays, and 5 pm to 12 am 
Sundays. The head consultant is Charlene 
Spann, and she can be contacted by elec
tronic mail at CS3A@TE. One final notewhen you use the new cluster, make sure to 
wear warm clothing, as it is extremely cold 
due to an overactive air conditioner.
Avoiding Mono
Question: My boyfriend has just been 
diagnosed with Mono. What is it and 
will I get it?
Your chances of getting mononucleosis 
are based on many factors which include 
the degree of your exposure to the virus and 
your succeptability to illness at the time. 
Mono is caused by a virus that is found in 
most exhaled air and nasal secretions. It is 
not as contagious as many other viruses but 
may be transmitted by direct contact wit 
hinfected salva. This explains the origin of 
monos nickname as the kissing disease. It 
is most prevelantin teenagers and young 
adults ages 15-30.
Most often, it is a self-limiting mild ill
ness and runs its course in 3-4 weeks. 
Common symptoms include fatigue, head
ache, sore throat fever and enlarged nodes. 
There is no medicinal cure for mono. The 
treatment is symptomatic: Tylenol or
Advil for the aches and fever, and throat 
lozenges for the sore throat, lots of fluids 
and plenty of rest 
Since mono involves the blood forming 
organs of the body, enlargement of the liver 
and spleen may occur. Persons are in
structed not to engage in sports or activi
ties where a blow to the adbomen may 
occur.
photo by Glenn Schuster
Vice President for Enrollment, Bill Elliott, takes on added responsibilities in the 
advent of Crecines departure.
Crecine to take on Georgia Tech in 88

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 The Tartan  Spring 1988
CMU Creates Crew Club
Former Students. Bring the Real World!! to Carnegie Mellon
Alums Return for Career Connections
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Contributing Editor
Are you curious about your future? Ever 
wonder what a professional in your major 
actually does every day? Do you want help 
exploring majors, investigating career goals, 
and initiating professional contacts? Then 
Career Connections is for you.
This career fair will be held on Thursday, 
November 19, in the Skibo Ballroom and 
Wherrett Room from 2 pm to 5 pm. Alumni 
from nearly every major available at Carnegie 
Mellon will be available to answer any ques
tions you may have about their jobs, education, 
applying for employment, and the career expe
rience in general.
This program is for everyone, from seniors 
trying to clarify their career objectives to fresh
men who are trying to decide what to declare as
a major, stated Karen Litzinger, Associate 
Director of Career Development of the Career 
Services and Placement office. In its second 
year, Career Connections has grown into a 
very successful program.
Alums are eager to help 
students by sharing their 
career experiences and 
answering any questions 
they can
Students are used to seeing job fairs, and 
the idea of a career fair was just a unique good 
idea, Litzinger said. The fair was well at
tended last year, and even more students are
expected this year.
It should be noted that this is not a job fair, 
and these alumni are not representing their 
companies, only their career fields. Career 
Connections gives students an opportunity to 
speak informally with professionals individu
ally or in small groups on a walk-through basis 
without the hassle of being scrutinized by 
recruiters.
These alumni have been invited by the 
academic departments on campus and are 
eager to help students by sharing their career 
experiences and answering any questions they 
can, Litzinger said.
A list of all the alumni participating and the 
majors represented is available in the Career 
Services and Placement Office in Warner 
Hall. It will also be available at Career Con
nections. Registration will take place just 
outside the Ballroom.
Get Both Oars in the Water
photo by Glenn Schuster
Cara CanegiM CaiM
On Friday, October 9, the brothers of Theta Xi, the sisters of Kappa Alpha Theta, 
and the sisters of Delta Delta Delta raised over $1,100 for charity.
The money will go to Students Against Multiple Sclerosis (SAMS), Childrens' 
Hospital, and the Karen Johnson Asthma Foundation. Karen Johnson was both a 
sister at Kappa Alpha Theta and a little sister at Theta Xi.
Shown above: A sister of Delta Delta Delta collects money in front of Doherty 
Hall.
By KAREN SILVA
Tartan Stajfwriter
Picture this: Youre up very early on a 
Spring morning. Instead of staring bleary 
eyed at a computer screen while the sun 
rises over Hamerschlag Hall, youre row
ing on the Allegheny. Out on the river, 
even the city of Pittsburgh looks lovely as 
everyone is waking up. Sound pretty 
good? Want to give it a try?
Well, the opportunity to join a Crew 
Team has now come to Carnegie Mellon. 
The University Rowing Club under the 
direction of Harry Printz, is here. The 
effort to get a rowing team began with a 
meeting in November.
Since then, the difficult initial steps 
have successfully been taken. The mem
bership roster now stands at 95 interested 
students and staff, and, as of Saturday, 
January 30, the University Rowing Club 
has been officially recognized as a club by 
the Student Senate.
The time is right to start rowing. Many 
other school and community rowing clubs 
have already taken advantage of 
Pittsburghs three rivers. The Three Rivers 
Rowing Association (TRRA) is a civic 
organization that utilizes the rivers.
The North Side Development Council 
recently leased to TRRA a grant of land on 
Herrs Island (Washingtons Landing) to 
be used as the site of a proposed boathouse. 
The boathouse will be situated at a narrow 
and protected channel on the Allegheny
and will serve as a starting point for all 
rowing. TRRA would like Carnegie Mel
lon to help fund the project. The boathouse 
would serve as the center for all of the 
schools crew activity.
Harry Printz, President of the University 
Rowing Club, is also a member of TRRA. 
Printz has been behind the effort to have 
Carnegie Mellon start its own organization, 
and sees the push to begin rowing on the 
part of students and staff as a homegrown 
effort. Printz hopes that someday rowing 
will become a varsity sport
Jim Banner, the schools Athletic Direc
tor, pointed out that attaining varsity status 
is very difficult for sports in general. For 
this reason, crew will remain as a club. 
There is hope that someday Carnegie Mel
lon will be able to participate and do well 
in regattas and have a large recreational 
contingent. Printz sees no reason why this 
school cant have a successful program in 
the near future.
Since the initial meeting, the Board has 
been very busy preparing its presentation 
for the Student Senate, organizing budgets, 
pricing equipment, etc. Last Saturday, the 
Senate did recognize the organization as a 
club and agreed to fund some initial operat
ing costs.
The Senate would like the administra
tion to pick up the funding on more athletic, 
facilities, so the rowing club has to make a 
presentation to the administration in order 
to get underway.
photo courtesy of Mercy Hospital Foundation
Students may soon enjoy experiences such as this by joining the new rowing club.
Bush Makes an 
Appearance in 
Pittsburgh
PITTSBURGHVice President 
George Bush visited Pittsburgh Wed
nesday to march in the Veterans Day 
parade and to raise money for his 
presidential campaign.
Bush spoke at a private reception 
and luncheon which drew a crowd of 
145 people and raised $120,000.
The Vice President defended his 
loyalty to President Reagan. I feel 
good inside, and the fact that some of 
these commentators and Doonesbury dont understand it-I couldnt 
care less about it
Bushs remarks were flavored with 
patriotism and his own political rec
ord.
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Stajfwriter
Last Tuesday, Oct. 20, Assistant Dean of 
Student Affairs Edward Lilley addressed The 
Serious Business Of Play in the first of the 
Last Lectures... series presented by Student 
Senate.
Lilley informed students why it is so impor
tant for us to incorporate play into our life  
especially in what we normally consider seri
ous work.
The basis of Lilleys argument was that 
through playing games with other children we 
learn about life or ...learn the rules of the 
game. We learn to adjust our needs and wants 
to the rules of the games, thereby becoming 
thinkers and planners. But somewhere along 
the process of our development, as we pass 
through adolescence, society discourages our 
tendency to play. The fourteen year old be
comes shunned by his friends for still wanting
to play hide and go seek or play with his 
Gi. Joe. But this discouragement says 
Lilley, is really harmful. We need the seri
ous business of play to help us learn and be 
creative throughout our entire lives.
According to Lilley, If play is not a part o 
work, you will end up living the whole day just 
waiting till you can get out of that environment 
and do something fun. You need uninhibited 
play in your life in order to be happygreatest scientists made their revolutionary 
discoveries by being able to look at a problem 
from alternative perspectives instead of using 
the straightforward, narrow and convention 
method. They made their discoveries y 
being able to say what if. They made their 
discoveries by not being afraid to playLectures such as this will be PresenL 
every Tuesday, at 4:30 pm in Porter Hall 1  
The lectures, given by CMU faculty and s sj 
are funded by the activities fee.
The Serious Business of Play
Lilley Presents Last Lecture

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988  The Tartan  Page 7
The Pizza Page Presents:
loMUvastraMU ty vdM cMnUtrei cer camme hbrfaMU C
By KIM JESSEN
Special to this Issue
Pizza, not only in Pittsburgh, but na
tionally, is unquestionably the most stead
ily reaccuring staple in the American Col
lege Student Diet. As the Carnegie Mellon 
Pizza Survey continues, we have en
deavoured to go beyond just the where 
students go for Pizza; this article uncovers 
some of the mysteries of why and how 
our students eat pizza.
I never really liked Pizza until I came 
here, admits freshman convert Lori 
Cahill,now it's a weekly thing. Junior 
Rob Avoletta agrees. I eat pizza twice a 
week. Mostly at one or two at night when 
the study munchies strike. Rob, a Resi
dent Advisor in Mudge often organizes 
study breaks for his floor-We have a lot 
of pizza breaks, they're great around finalsbecause they deliver (you dont have to 
leave your books) and it gives you energy 
and its healthier than cookies or candy. 
When asked how they eat pizza, the 
students generally responded sitting on 
the floor with a big group of your friends. 
Sophmore, Kathy Massucci rationalized,
You mostly eat pizza in groups because 
its cheaper, you get a lot, and you feel 
guilty if you eat it by yourself. The groups 
do admit; however, that its wiser to eat on 
the floor of your room instead of in the hall, 
In the halls it's dangerous because people 
walk by and always want some (these 
people are sometimes known as pizza para
sites).
At Carnegie Mellon pizza is popular 
among students of all ages, shapes, and 
sizes. I love the girls who order pizza with 
everything, commented junior, Andy 
Gillespie, and then get two Diet Cokes, 
let's be real. While pizza is definitely a way 
of life among underclassmen (freshmen 
year being known as the pizza stage), 
there are some signs of change as students 
near the awareness of the real world. One 
senior stated, We order Chinese now. I 
guess your tastes just eventually mature.
Most popular pizza toppings: Carnegie 
Mellon consensus is#1- Pepperoni
#2- Everything- Except Anchovies
#3- Hawaiin (pinapple on pizza?!)
a ,vbxMrvU Ca ptruMn ,byyMn wnts pevM .audv ,venIevatr
MorePizza Announces On-Campus Delivery
photo by Jeff Rosoiblum
At Carnegie Mellon , Pizza is mans [and womans] best friend
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter
Starting February 1, MorePizza will begin 
providing delivery of certain menu items to 
Hill area residence halls.
The decision to start this limited delivery 
service was made jointly by the Student Dor
mitory Council Food Committee and the 
Dining Service. Jim Gurley, Director of Din
ing Service, explains: We have always been 
under the impression that the Hill area is the 
furthest from the pizza shop and that Morewood Gardens residence has a monopoly on 
- access to the pizza shop. So we felt that the Hill 
would be the target.
Gurley points out that the objective is not to 
compete head to head with the off-campus 
pizza businesses like Dominos and Four-Star 
Pizza, but merely to meet the demands of the 
pizza delivery service already existing on 
campus.
Theres no question that there is a lot of 
pizza being delivered to this campus...that 
demand is already there. Now the university is 
providing for that demand, commented 
Gurley.
The delivery service will be available from
7:30-11:30 pm. The procedures forplacing an 
order will be similar to those practiced in other 
pizzerias. Students will order a pizza by call
ing x6666 and giving a student identification 
number for payment by contract or Vali-dine. 
Upon delivery, they will be asked to show their 
ID for verification. Students may pay cash 
upon delivery as well.
The initial food items to be delivered will 
consist of sandwiches, pizza, and beverages. 
The beverages will be limited to new, 32 oz.- 
size fountain sodas (no Soho drinks). The 
pizza will be restricted in size as well: the 4- 
cut, personal size pies will not be available. 
Instead, the 8-cut and a new, 16", 12-cut pie 
will be offered.
Gurley is optimistic about this service. I 
am of the opinion that it will be extremely suc
cessful. I think we can match up favorably 
with the competition in terms of quality and 
value...its an opportunity for Dining Service 
to provide the students as well as staff of the 
university service that there is a high demand 
for.
The Dining Service hopes that this is only 
the first step in expanding their services. They 
expect to start delivery to faculty administra
tion and staff buildings in the near future. We 
expect to expand the times of day...ultimately 
wed like to be delivering for lunch, dinner, 
and evening throughout the whole campus.
We wanted to launch it with a directed 
target for students in a specific area of the 
campus that was furthest away...but very 
shortly we would like to see it expand 
throughout the [entire] campus.
cc-5rdo's p,
' Pittsburghs Best Pizza
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor
Pizza is mans best friend, says Dave 
Ostrowski, a freshman in MCS. Although that 
may be a slight exaggeration, most college 
I students would generally agree that pizza cer
tainly bears the dog for this honored position. 
The Tartan thought it would be interesting to 
find out who has the best pizza in Pittsburgh, so 
we went to you, the experts.
By far the most popular way to get the 
recommended daily allowance of pizza at 
CMU is to go to MorePizza. We asked 40 
students to rate Dining Service on a scale of 1 
I to 10 (10 was the highest) in four categories. 
The average scores are given in parentheses: 
quality (4.4), price (5.7), speed (7.0), and 
cleanliness (6.4). All the scores were above 
average (5.0) except for quality, which may be 
due to the grease about which some students 
complained. (In the box for quality sopho
more Elice Slafka wrote the word edible, 
which sums it up.)
0 The second most popular type of pizza at 
Carnegie Mellon is delivered pizza. A number 
of area stores specialize in pizza delivery, and 
it is convenient especially for students who 
live on campus. Our results indicate that 58% 
of all students order pizza at least once a week 
for delivery.
Dominos was rated the best delivered 
pizza, with Larry & Carols coming in second. 
, Pizza Hut and 4 Star tied for third, which is
surprising because, according to Lisa Bonessi, 
manager of the Pizza Hut on Fifth Avenue in 
Oakland, Pizza Hut does not deliver in the 
Pittsburgh area and has no plans to do so in the 
immediate future. Bonessi told us that Pizza 
Hut will deliver on very large orderssay 10 
pizzas. So if youre really hungry....
We also asked students to rate delivered 
pizza on price. Capri Pizza was named the 
cheapest delivered pizza (a large 16-inch 
pepperoni costs $6.15 plus tax, but includes 
two free liters of Pepsi), followed by Little 
Italy ($6.75, tax included, along with two free 
drinks). Tying for third place were Dominos 
($8.59, no free drinks) and 4 Star ($8.50, also 
without drinks).
Editors Note: At the time of our survey, 
MorePizza had not announced its intention to 
offer a limited pizza delivery service to Hill 
residents.
Finally, 42% of the students we spoke to 
said they occasionally go off-campus for 
pizza. By far, Pizza Hut was rated the best offcampus pizza, with Aiellos Pizza in Squirrel 
Hill coming in a distant second and Mineos 
and Gulliftys, both in Squirrel Hill, tying for 
third.
Wed like to thank all those students who 
took time to respond to our survey. And judg
ing by the amount of pizza consumed at CMU, 
we think we can state that pizza  in all its 
forms  is here to stay.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Its Time for Tough Decisions
Now that the waitings finally over, its time to make the decision that counts. 
Where are you going to go?
At this point you probably have several offers.
B ut maybe you re lucky, maybe Carnegie Mellon is your first choice. In which 
case, all you have to do is send in the housing and matriculation fees and get 
ready for Freshman Camp.
More likely, though, because of financial reasons or personal reasons or a 
better offer, you have a tough decision ahead of you.
Should you come to Carnegie Mellon or not?
Carnegie Mellon is a scary place. Everyone who comes here is just like you. 
Youre probably sitting at the top of your class, extremely intelligent, but 
extremely lazy. Face it, when was the last time you worked, really worked, for 
anything academic? When was the last time you had to work?
You can bet your last dollar youll never ask yourself that question at CMU. 
Sometimes Carnegie Mellon can be a walking, talking, living nightmare that 
doesnt seem to ever end. Youll study, youll cram, youll stay awake, youll 
drink a lot of caffeine, and youll want to get out.
And youll wonder if its worth it  youll ask yourself why youre spending 
so much money to be put through so much pain.
But then youll take a look around. Carnegie Mellon is a university on the rise: 
were 80 years old and second to only MIT in computer science and electrical 
engineering. Were small, but we have some of the best teachers and researchers 
in the world. And none of them are too busy to talk to you.
Everyone knows about our engineering programs, but do you know about our 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences? In the midst of a technical 
university, CMU can offer you a liberal education. We can offer you more than 
a major in civil engineeringwe have history, philosophy, and English majors. 
After class is just as diverse: you can push a buggy, play Intramural basketball, 
or write for The Tartan without ever leaving campus.
As a matter of fact, The Tartan is a good example of the diversity of extracur
ricular activities. Our News Editor is a physics major, our Editor-in-Chief is a 
technical writing major, and our Business Manager is an information systems 
major. You might have read how CMU students are all either fruits or 
vegetables, but in fact thats not true, were all just CMU students.
The point is you will be challenged like never before in your life, but you will 
also have more opportunities than ever before in your life. Carnegie Mellon has 
something for everyone, both in class and after class. Take advantage of it.
A (Student) Presidents Welcome to Campus
Welcome back to another year of no sleep, 
no-doze, and no parking. I hope you didnt 
bring your car to school because there is now 
even less parking than there ever was. If you 
didnt already know, you can not park on 
Devon or Beeler unless you live there and get 
a residential permit We are working on the 
parking problem with a few solutions in sight.
Campus events that occurred over the sum
mer include a board of trustees meeting and the 
model unveiling of the new student union, 
which can be seen in Skibo. Plans for the new 
dorm and football field are changing every 
day, so do not expect any designs that you see 
to be final ones. Hamburg Hall was dedicated 
this summer (the old Bureau of Mines). It will 
be completed, and ready to house it's new 
departments by October.
Student Affairs is putting together an allcampus planning theme each month; look for 
their ad on the back page of the Diversions 
section of The Tartan and get out and attend 
some of their programs.
Even though the task force on the quality of 
life has not completed its report, two ideas that 
I have seen look very promising. The first is 
the idea of having a winter quarter in January. 
A student would take one course which would 
meet every day of the month. The courses 
offered during the winter session would not be 
part of any one major, but would rather be 
courses about ethics, controversial issues, and 
other topics. It would be mandatory for two out 
of your four (or more) years here; you would 
then have a one-month winter break. The other 
two years you would have a two-month winter 
break. This would let faculty (those not teach
ing during the winter session) have two 
months to concentrate on their research, so 
they would spend more time with their under
grad classes during the year. It would also 
make our regular semesters of comparable 
length to other schools.
The other idea that looked promising was 
that of putting monitors around campus in key 
locations (like airport terminal displays). 
These would announce events occurring on 
campus. This seems to me to be a relatively 
cheap way to stay informed of these events.
One class of upcoming events that I recom
mend you see are the plays that are performed 
in Kresge Theatre. They are put on by the 
drama department about five times per year. 
Student tickets are very cheap (around $5.00 a 
show) and the shows are excellent Stop by the 
box office in CFA for more information.
One of my main goals this year is to get 
SACs (student advisory councils) in every 
department up and running. Many depart
ments have them, but there are many that 
dont I believe that these councils will help to 
get a good advisory program going in their de
partments. I would also like to see them spon
sor or help sponsor departmental happy hours 
and other events to get the faculty more in
volved with the students. This ( student/falculty involvement) has been a major concern 
of many students; it is something that is in both 
the students and facultys best interest. Stu
dents need to make more contact with their 
professors, and faculty need to realize that 
students want to meet them and learn more 
from them. I will be working with Student 
Senate, faculty senate, President Cyert, and 
others on this issue. One of the other plans I 
have for this year include the continuation of 
the tailgate parties before home football 
games.
I am always open to more suggestions, and 
very willing to sit down and talk to anyone. I
will be having office hours in the Student 
Senate office, Skibo 59, next week. If you have 
any problems here on campus or any great 
ideas stop by there and talk to a student senator 
or leave a message for me.
Gfjod luck during the year.
 fb^rx.
Andrew Robitshek 
President, Student Senate
The Tartan
This special issue of The Tartan has been created for the use of the Carnegie Mellon University 
Admissions Office by The Tartan newspaper. All of the events included in this issue actually 
occurred and were reported in the course of the 1987-1988 academic semesters at Carnegie 
Mellon by The Tartan.
Co-Editors: Albrecht T. Powell, The Tartan
Kimberly Jessen, Admissions Office
Fall 1987 Editorial Staff
Editor-in-Chief ......................Russ SeligmanManaging Editor ..................David N. LevyBusiness Manager...................Mark R. BenishNews Editor............................Karl BarnharlAssistant News Editor...............Eric LeulietteFeatures Editor_________.......Howdy PierceJudy Haraburda 
Sports Editor ................................Stewart LevineAssistant Sports Editor....................... Dvid BrillDiversions Editor_________......Bruce KasrelPhoto Editor...........................Glenn SchusterAn Editor__........................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor____.............Michele OsherowProduction Manager.......................... Drue MillerAd Manager ...................................Celeste ClarkCopy Manager..................._... Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors....................................Lisa D. McAnany Olve PeersonAlbrecht T. Powell John FriedmannNeil (ireenblum Andrew Gillespie
Spring 1988 Editorial Staff
Editor-in-Chief........................Karl BarnhartManaging Editor....................Erika PetersonBusiness Manager....................Russ SeligmanNews Editor........................Kric W. LeulietteAssistant News Editor.................Chris YoungFeatures Editors........................Howdv PierceJudy Haraburda
Sports Editor..............................Josh RubenAssi>,tant Sports Editor.............Stewart LevineDiversions Editor.....................Michael RosePhoto Assignment Editor...........Andy GillespiePhoto Darkr(x>m Editor...........Albrecht PowellArt Editor.........................Grant CarmichaelLiterary Editor...................Michele OsherowProduction Manager............Dustin L. FrazierCopy Editor............................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors...................................Bruce Kasrel Neil (ireenblumDrue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann
The Tartan 15 the 5t2Aent neB5DaDer cf Carneg1e Melcn Un1ver51ty. It 15 a Beekly neB5DaDer, D2bl15heA by 5t2Aent5 each T2e#Aa'^* 
the fall anA 5Dr1ng 5eme5ter5, at nc cc5t tc member5 at the 2n1ver51ty ccmm2n1ty. It I5 Dr1nteA by TyDecrafl Pre55, Inc. Sticriptio 
ava1lable fcr $15 Der 5eme5ter. $25 Der year. The EA1tcr1al aDDear1ng at the beg1nn1ng cf the cD1n1cn 5ect1cn 15 the cff1c1al P1n'\ 
Tartan eA1tcr1al bcarA. Ccl2mn5 are the cD1n1cn5 cf 1nA1v1A2al a2thcr5 Bhc are nct nece55ar1ly cn The Tartan eA1tcr1al bcarA cr  
Letter* tc the EA1tcr are cD1n1cn5 cf 1nA1v1A2al a2thcr5 Bhc are 252aly merrber5 cf the Un1ver51ty ccmm2n1ty. A letter 1nten 
D2bl1cat1cn m25t be 51gneA anA 1ncl2Ae the Br1ter'5 aAAre55 anA Dhcne n2mber tcr ver1f1cat1cn. Name5 Bll be B1thhelA 2Dcn req^0t^rv0S 
Tartan re5erve5 the r1ght tc ccnAen5e cr re|ect any latter cr ccl2mn. CcDyr1ght 1967,1988by The Tart. The eA1tcr1al bcarf re5B 
the r1ght tc B1thhclA frcm D2bl1cat1cn any ccDy 1t Aeem5 2nf1t fcr D2blcat1cn.
OfUce: Sk1bc 50 (412) 268-2111 F2nAeA 1n Dart by the
Ma1l1ng aAAreee: The Tartan / Bcx 17 ^^3107Carneg1e Mellcn Un1ver51ty / P1tt5b2rgh, PA 15213 L1brary cf Ccngre55 ISSN 

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988  The Tartan  Page 9
Its Not too Late to Tell Us, 
Who Was Judy Resnik?
Reclaiming the Dream...
photo by Andy Gillespie
Carnegie Mellon students and faculty gathered on the Cut for a flagpole vigil as part 
of the celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.s birthday.
SPIRIT Celebrates Black History Month
By KARL BARNHART
Editor-in-Chief
Who was Judy Resnik?
Judy Resnik, a 1970 Carnegie Mellongraduate, was killed in the January 1986 space 
shuttle Challenger explosion.
Who was Judy Resnik?
J udy Resnik represents the best of Carnegie 
Mellons student  she majored in electrical 
engineering, played classical piano, joined a 
sorority, and wrote for The Tartan.
Who was Judy Resnik?
Judy Resnik epitomized the philosopy of 
education at Carnegie Mellon; bridging the 
gap between technology and art by being ac
tive in both CIT and CFA.
Who was Judy Resnik?
Judy Resnik left CMU, after getting a PhD 
in EE from the University of Maryland, to be
come the second American woman in space.
Who was Judy Resnik?
Somebody knows: there is a scholarship in 
her name for female engineering students and 
there is a memorial planned for the patio be
tween Hamerschlag and Wean Halls.
Who was Judy Resnik?
Lets make sure CMU never forgets. As 
students, we would like the dormitory built on 
the East Campus to be named after Judith A.
Resnik.
Naming buildings after donors is not a bad 
idea  in cases except dorms. As a matter of 
fact, naming gifts should be encouraged in 
cases like the University Center or administra
tive buildings. Alumni and cooporations 
would be more willing to donate money if they 
were to have a building, a wing, or even a room 
named after them.
But the dorm will be paid for, eventually, 
by the residents, students. The University isnt 
soliciting sponsors for the dorm so it is a 
perfect candidate for honoring Judy Resnik: 
Boss, McGill, and Scobell Halls were named 
after alumni killed in World War I.
Although this proposal would be an alumni 
coup, the motivating force behind getting it 
passed will have to come from the student 
body. This editorial alone isnt going to con
vince anyone, but with the help of Student 
Senate and individuals of the student body we 
can make sure that no one ever asks Who was 
Judy Resnik?
This article has been reprinted from the 
Editorial in the February 16, 1988 issue of 
The Tartan. The Editorial usually appearing 
at the beginning of the opinions section repre
sents the official opinion of The Tartan edito
rial board.
By ANTHONY NURSE 
Special to The Tartan
February is Black History Month. In honor 
thereof, SPIRIT Organization at Carnegie 
Mellon is holding its first annual Black Month 
Celebration. The theme of the month is The 
Struggle Continues. Here is an overview of 
the months events.
Black month kicked off with Bobby Seale 
Reflects. Seale, activist and founder of 
theBlack Panthers, spoke on Saturday January
30 to a packed Ballroom. The speaker related 
in depth his own history, the Beginning of the 
Black Panthers, and racism in America.
The next event, on February 4, was a trip 
through the Smithsonian exhibit From Field 
to Factory. The exhibit was on display in 
Hunt Library from January 9 to February 7. 
Leading the tour was Professor Joe Trotter. 
The exhibit features information, documents, 
and actual pictures of the Blacks migration 
from the rural South to the industrial North. 
The exhibit was brought to the campus by a 
joint project of the University Libraries and 
the Department of History.
How We Made It This Far was the title of 
the third event on the Carnegie Mellon cam
pus. Mr. Bob Gore, former assistant director of 
CORE, and Mrs. Adlai Sanford, member of 
the New York State Board of Regents and 
teaching fellow at Harvard University, held a
Black History workshop on February 14 in the 
Wherrett room. The topic of conversation was 
the civil rights movement and the role of Black 
college students in the community.
SPIRIT Genesis/SPIRIT Today, a lunch
eon with Mr. Kofi Scott, founder of SPIRIT, 
was held in the Falculty Dining Room on 
February 21. As the title suggests, there was a 
comparison between the SPIRIT of yesterday 
and the SPIRIT of today.
The Roots Of The Struggle,  which is to 
be held tomorrow, February 24, will be a 
seminar with Jim Anderson, Professor of 
Psychology at Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania. Dr. Anderson will be speaking on the 
Black culture, past and present. He comes 
highly recommended and will hold the semi
nar in Margeret Morrison Room 408 at 6:00 
pm.
Wrapping up Black Month on campus will 
be Celebrating Our Heritage, a party co
sponsored by SPIRIT and the Black Graduate 
Student Organization. It will be held Friday, 
February 26 and promises to be a fun night.
We at SPIRIT would like to thank all those 
who put their time and effort into making our 
first Black Month a success. We would also 
like to thank those who supported our efforts 
by attending these functions, and hope that 
you continue to do so in the future.
More Than Just a Water Shortage in Pittsburgh
Diesel Duck And Other Oil Spill Delicaces
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Only Pittsburgh could have the worst 
inland oil disaster in U.S. history and be 
rated one of the top ten healthiest places to 
live in America. To commemorate this 
important event, Inquiring Minds has 
compiled this list of noted comments over
heard in the nations bars and malls.
 Andy Rooney 
led his commen
tary this week 
with, Dont you 
hate these disas
ters without catchy 
names. I mean, 
Watergate is already taken, and no one can 
pronounce the name of that stupid river.
 You know, the steel for the oil drum 
came from Cleveland, no wonder it col
lapsed. (Gratuitous Cleveland joke of the 
*week)
 If you think aboutit, the oil spill really 
didnt matter. No one in Pittsburgh could 
taste the difference.
 Filled up my Chevy truck from the 
tap. Got three miles per gallon better than 
with SOHIO unleaded. (Gratuitous Cleve
land joke #2)
 In a water conservation effort, Physical 
Plant flooded the sub-basements of 
Doherty. Design majors immediately com
plained about difficulty breathing under
water.
 Local fisherman predicted that this 
years fish harvest would be easier than 
ever before. One fisherman said, How 
tough is it to scoopem off the top of the 
water?
 The Monroeville Womens Bridge 
club was ripped off by a door-to-door in
stant water salesman (just add water). The 
packets even had a free recipe for ice with 
both high altitude and microwave direc
tions.
 Pat Robertson gave thanks to the Al
mighty for giving him the ability to force 
water AND oil downstream.
 Oral Roberts stated that unless Pitts
burgh gave him 3 million dollars by January 
19, he would force the oil upstream, Pat 
Robertson not withstanding.
 While cleaning the river, Pittsburgh 
Police discovered the dead body of Richard 
Cyert. Students learned that Carnegie Mel
lon had, in fact, been run for the last seven 
years by Cyerts evil twin brother Jit. 
Cyert.
reflect their renewed commitment to serv
ice: Were Delta on the river.
 In his first press release of the year, 
President Reagan stated,Im Delta in the 
White House (we couldnt resist).
 Michael Jackson offered to buy the oil 
spill for 5 million dollars. The deal fell 
through when the City of Pittsburgh could 
not decide whether or not to levy the 10% 
entertainment tax.
 Several Ashland engineers, former 
Morton-Thiokol employees, admitted they 
had had no data for the tanks O-ring seals if 
the temperature got as cold as Joe said it 
would.
 Muamar Khadafi claimed responsibil
ity for theoil spill. So did the Peoples Black 
Oily Rivers with Deal Fish Floating on Top 
Front as well as fourteen other schizo 
groups. Israel agreed not to retaliate.
 In his latest commercial, Lou Pappan, 
of Lou Pappans Family Restaurants, 
proudly announced a new entree: duck 
roasted in a rich diesel sauce.
The Inquiring Staff is D. Bidwa,D. Brick,
S. Levine, S. Markon, D. Mullett, C. Wil
liams, and R. Wilson.
999 
  
qMeivdSevgdV PeyyMarM
Choice of a New Generation
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor
Many students rely on caffeine as a stimulant to keep up with their homework. But, 
warns Leslie Bond, there are many caveats to using that six-pack of Jolt for an all-night 
problem set
Bonci recommends avoiding pep pills such as No-Doz and Vivarin. Instead she 
suggests drinking tea and coffee  without cream and sugar they have almost no 
calories. But dieters should be aware that caffeine decreases blood sugar levels, leading 
to an increased appetite.
Students should also know that caffeine drinkers exhibit a threshold response. The 
more often caffeine is used as a stimulant, the larger the quantity required to maintain 
the desired effect.
In addition to inducing wakefulness, caffeine increases stomach acidity, depletes 
iron from the body, and may lead to an irregular heartbeat. Bonci recommends a 
maximum of three or four servings a day.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Students Discover: Theres More to College
By RUSS SELIGMAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
Welcome to Carnegie Mellon!
That seems to be the standard greeting for 
which all of our readers were probably wait
ing. Not Welcome back, though. Thats 
because this editorial is directed towards 
freshmen.
Not that the comments offered below do not 
apply to the campus in general; indeed, they 
do. It is our opinion, though, that the freshmen 
need this advice more.
The fact is that many people go through their 
academic life at Carnegie Mellon expecting it 
to be business as usual  an orderly progres
sion of events with neat ends. They expect 
theyll concentrate on classes and academics, 
and maybe theyll get involved with a student 
organization or Greek house.
What they dont often realize, is that college 
is not just for classes. College is the transition 
point for young adults.
Dont misunderstand  academic perform
ance is certainly important. Evidence of this is
the fact that attendance at Carnegie Mellon 
depends on it. And of course the classes taken 
will have a large effect on job offers. But it is 
also important to learn how to relate to other 
people. The clubs here make that possible. 
Companies look for that on resumes, too.
Last week at the Activities Fair, Skibo was 
filled with people either trying to recruit for 
clubs or join them. It is vitally important that 
students respond to these recruiters. Join, and 
join now! These clubs provide everything 
from sports to experience to fun. They also act 
as a common meeting ground for students to 
meet other students outside their majors.
The clubs and Greek system are a major part 
of life here. The inherent rivalries of the Greek 
system and Spring Carnival help to mold 
people into groups that learn to work together 
in a no-loss environment. Cooperation and 
experience-sharing are learned in a situation 
where livelihood does not depend on the out
come.
And even though there is very little publicity 
(with the exception of the Activities Fair),
Alpha Phi Omega: Not Just 
Another Do-Gooder Group
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor
Dont be alarmed. The following short quiz 
will be unlike most youve had to take at CMU. 
You will not be graded and you are encouraged 
to cheat off your neighbor.
Circle the correct answer(s). Alpha Phi 
Omega (commonly called A 
Phi O):
a) publishes the C-book 
campus directory and fresh
man packets
b) sells concessions at 
CMU football and basketball 
games and at Spring Carnival
c) runs the Magic Bus to 
Philadelphia/Harrisburg at 
Thanksgiving
d) mans the polls at Student 
Senate elections
e) sponsors Tuck-Ins and 
Stuffed Sweethearts
f) runs Book Exchange at 
the beginning of each semes
ter
g) organizes Scouting events such as Scout 
Swim, Klondike Derby, Scouting for Food, 
etc.
h) performs community service with or
ganizations such as WQED, the Salvation 
Army, and nursing and childrens homes
i) all of the above and more
The answer, of course, is i.
First, a little national history about A Phi O. 
It is a national co-ed service fraternity founded 
at Lafayette College in Easton, PA in 1925. 
Frank Reed Horton, a former naval officer 
who had served in World War I, became inter
ested in the Boy Scout movement while a 
student at Lafayette and saw the need to estab
lish a college organizaton that would be based 
on the high ideals of Scouting and the prin
ciples of leadership, friendship and service. 
The fourteen charter members decided that A 
Phi O would be a nonsecret fraternity with the 
main goal of service to campus, community, 
chapter, and country. At the 1976 National 
Convention in Georgia, delegates voted to 
off- women full membership rights. Since the 
founding at Lafayette College in 1925, this 
national fraternity has grown to 632 chapters.
Kappa chapter here at Carnegie Mellon was 
founded in 1929 by Carl J. Long, H. Kenneth 
Siefers and other Carnegie Tech students. As 
the second oldest continuous chapter in the 
nation, they will be celebrating their Sixtieth 
Anniversary in 1989.
President Ron Manila comments on his 
first impressions of A Phi O. The biggest 
thing I learned from A Phi O was not to judge 
people before you really know them. At first 
I thought I could never fit in. Then I was 
dragged to a meeting, and I realized that these 
were real people and I sensed commitment to
the fraternity. Besides, nobody cared how 
badly I danced.
There are probably as many different rea
sons for joining as members of A Phi O. 
Service Vice-President Jenni Severa says she 
joined because I wanted to be involved in 
Spring Carnival and I was too chubby to drive 
a buggy! Seriously though, I liked doing serv
ice in high school. I was also interested be
cause my box number in the C-book was 
wrong and I wanted someone to know about it! 
The first project I did was Stuffed Sweethearts 
and I brought up a new idea and they listened 
to it They never made me feel like an outsider 
even though they didnt really know me. 
Member Graham Potter explains, There is 
no other organization like it on campus. Its a 
diverse group of people tightly knit working 
together and achieving something. Were not 
just a bunch of do-gooders; were more than 
that. The fraternity is so close that everything 
we do is a social event and everything we do 
we do effectively.
Severa emphasizes that a lot of people 
dont realize that our service projects are open 
to everyone, whether youre in A Phi O or not. 
So if youre interested in a project, feel free to 
stop by.
Anyone interested in more information 
about A Phi O or about service projects can 
stop by the A Phi O office in Skibo Room 54 
or call ext 2116.
there are a large number of organizations look
ing for new members. Keep in mind that a club 
is based on a group of people who share a 
common interest. This means that by joining a 
club you will be furthering the enjoyment and 
education in a subject that already holds your 
attention.
Take advantage of all that Carnegie Mellon 
clubs have to offer you, and show us all that 
you have to offer the CMU clubs. If this sounds 
like a challenge, well it is. Its also an invita
tion. We invite you to participate in activities, 
because after all, its not just an education  
Its an adventure.
This article has been reprinted from the Edi
torial in the September 2,1988 issue of The 
Tartan. The Editorial usually appearing at 
the beginning of the opinions section repre
sents the official opinion of The Tartan edito
rial board.
Stacey Stancill modeling the "best 
legs in the annual Sexy Body Parts 
competition held at Scotland Yard.
Ace Journalist Uncovers All:
Bob Glickstein Wages 
Budget Wars in D.C.
As you know, President Reagans new 
budget proposal allows for $700 billion 
dollars to be spent on jelly beans and 
$131.17 on higher education. Naturally, 
universities around the country mounted a 
massive lobbying campaign when this 
news broke, and our uni
versity was no exception.
Our fine newspaper sent 
me, Ace Journalist Bob 
Glickstein, to Washington 
D.C. to cover CMUs part 
in this funding lobby.
After I checked into my 
hotel room, I headed 
straight for the headquarters of the Higher 
Education Funding lobby in ritzy Geor
getown. There I met with CMU representa
tive Morris Blerbek. I asked him to bring 
me up to date on the progress of the funding 
lobby.
What? said Mister Blerbek.
I removed the lamp shade from his head. 
I said, What did I miss?
I dunno.
I resolved to find out I approached the 
nearest man in a suit I could find. He was 
wearing a Hello, My Name Is sticker 
which said Thorsten Twiddle, Yale Uni
versity. I tried to get him to bring me up to 
date but I couldnt get his attention away 
from the martini. Well, if this is where the 
news is, I thought, then I, Ace Journalist 
Bob Glickstein, ought to plunge right in 
and cover this baby. I ordered a martini, 
too.
The organizational meeting adjourned 
the next day. Phase two, according to Bler
bek, was for the lobbyists to confront con
gressmen in person and aggressively state 
their views. I personally accompanied Mis
ter Blerbek on a stakeout of the beautiful 
Virginia home of Senator Woodsey The 
Crusher OMalley.
Morris (as I soon came to know him) 
and I sat in his car for six hours, dunking 
donuts into coffee until, finally, a large 
sedan drove up bearing an I am a Senator, 
but please dont shoot at me license plate. 
Morris recognized the man who emerged 
carrying a briefcase as Crusher OMalley. 
Morris rolled down his window.
Hey, OMalley, he shouted through a 
mouthful of donut Whats the opposite of 
progress? Congress!! Ha ha ha!
Later, in our jail cell, Morris drew up a 
list of remaining congressmen whom we 
had yet to lobby.
ColumnColumnColumnColumn60 Seconds
with Bob Glickstein
How do you think the others are 
doing? I asked him.
He said, I dont know. I hope theyre 
doing as well as us. Did you see the look on 
OMalleys face!
Several days later, back at the headquar
ters in Georgetown, an
other meeting was held. 
The chairman of our lobby
ing group told us that our 
efforts had been fruitful 
we had been given a con
ference with the President 
the following day!
The next day, the entire 
lobbying group was seated at a very long 
table in the White House. When President 
Reagan entered, we stood and applauded. 
Two secret service men stood on either side 
of the Presidents chair when he sat down.
Good afternoon, gentlemen, said the 
President.
Good afternoon, President Reagan, 
said the lobbyists.
Im pleased to say that I have decided, 
along with several of my aides, to give you 
all the money you need. Now, Im not sup
posed to, but I believe that your cause is 
right and that with determination, you can 
defeat the Sandinis
The advisor sitting on Reagans left 
whispered into the Presidents ear. I was 
able to see Reagans expression change 
suddenly and his mouth form the word 
Oh.
A lobbyist from NYU said Mister 
President? May we discuss your budget 
plan? We feel that $131.17 is an inade
quate amount to allocate for higher educa
tion.
Budget plan? said Reagan. His advi
sor whispered in his ear some more. I could 
hear Reagan whisper back, Oh, the money 
thing?
Im sorry, gentlemen, said the Presi
dent but the governments money is 
needed elsewhere. First of all, theres this 
big, expensive space-umbrella thing that 
Cap Weinberger keeps telling meabout...
Reagans advisor leaned over and whis
pered to him again. Reagan said to him, 
Cap resigned? Oh. Why? He addressed 
us again. Well, maybe we can give you 
guys more money after all. Give me a few 
days to figure out how this whole badger 
thing actually works.
The advisor whispered in Reagans ear.
Budget

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988  The Tartan  Page 11
How To Get A Date With MacRight
Many students complain that dating at Carnegie Mellon is practically a nonexistent activity. 
After taking a poll at the local hot spots, however, we have found this generalization to be false. 
Not only do students ask each out they employ an extensive variety of ice breakers.
A popular place for inter-gender mingling seems to be the Kiltie. Here are some lines we 
collected that have been used in the past.
CMU Sponsors Peace Contest: The 
Quest For A Creative Conclusion
Spectacles
by Sara Flynn
MALE TO FEMALE:
1. Sure is crowded today. I hate to eat alone 
and theres hardly anywhere to sit. Do you 
mind if I join you?
2. Dont get the lentil loaf, its awful.
3. Im exhausted from football practice, do 
you think you could hand me a teabag?
4. Dont tell me you like spaghetti too!
5. Ive noticed we both eat at the same time
______ everyday. We must be on the same wave
length.
Unfortunately out of 45 men asked only 2 said they were ever approached by women.
1.1 love your shirt, where did you get it?
 2. Is anybody sitting in that empty seat?
Apparently women do not excel in brilliant addresses. They performed even worse, however, 
around campus. Polling at the library and the bookstore brought forth the following results. Men 
asked women for pens, paper, pencils, booklists, gum, change, schedules, the time and 
directions, whereas the women rarely approached the men at all. This leads us to the conclusion 
that either men are far more aggressive in socializing and seem enthusiastic in the prospect of 
making friends or they are predominantly disorganized.
The computer cluster presented an entirely different picture. Women often employ the image 
of helplessness. Eight out of nine women said that, if given the choice between asking a man 
*br woman for help, they would turn to the man. They also said that they had rarely been 
approached for help by a member of the opposite sex. Does this mean that mastering computer 
technology puts us back in the dark ages of sexual discrimination? Or do women perceive the 
computer as a tool which men possess an innate dominant ability? Why do men prefer to ask a 
man over a woman for help at the terminal? It could be the fact that men look better at the 
keyboard than women. It is hardly a campus secret that girls go to the Morewood cluster in their 
fuzzy slippers and dressing gowns. Some even commit the social faux pas of typing papers 
wearing athletic ensembles. It is difficult to believe that a person with a proficient knowledge 
of the idiosyncratic behavior of a Mac control panel would dress like Carl Lewis in drag.
 So if the Carnegie Mellon female would like to gain more respect at the terminals on campus 
she should appear more technically attractive.lt is not necessary to go so far as to order pizza 
delivered to ones terminal, but maybe with a little more attention to appearance you might get 
the extra attention of that computer geek next door.
And our advice for men is Take A Chance! Just because the person to your right has nice ankles 
and lipstick on doesnt mean she doesnt know what shes doing with her disk. She probably 
wants to go to the Tartan Grill with you, too.
By KELLY SPENCER
Tartan Staffwriter
Have you ever heard of the old saying see
ing is believing? Well, experimental psy
chology has shown that people do indeed tend 
to think in terms of concrete scenarios. Out
comes with a development easily envisionable 
are generally assigned a higher probability for 
actual occurrence than those less readily imag
inable. In light of this discovery, the Program 
of International Peace and Security (IPS) here 
at Carnegie Mellon is sponsoring a writing 
competition, Imagine Peace, to encourage 
individuals and small groups of up to four 
people to create realistic scenarios for peace in 
the hope that seeing it will facilitate believ
ing it is possible.
Imagine Peace is open to any individual 
or group of individuals and director of public
ity stresses that those employed full-time are 
also welcome to apply; IPS will take into 
account individual schedules when planning 
activities for fellowship winners. These fel
lowships will be determined from the results 
of two phases of competition. In the first of 
these, participants will submit one or more 
scenarios describing a plausible plan for 
peace. These submissions should be less than 
1500 words (6 pages) and should also include 
plans for possible development into a pub
lished resource such as a novel, short story, 
essay, play, movie screenplay, or video. While 
IPS is principally focusing on peace between 
the superpowers, entries may also deal with 
the resolution of a specific regional conflict of 
international significance. Entries should be 
detailed, realistically-oriented, and begin with 
the world as it exists currently, proceeding
Brief Moments in Tartan History
The Fence represents the history and traditions of Carnegie Mellon, as well as at least four inches of paint. Tradition dictates 
that the Fence can only be paitned at night and must be guarded. For the past 65 years students have used the fence as a 
billboard to advertise campus events.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Kiltie band honors alums and their alma mater at this 
years homecoming celebrations.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Students enjoy a special banquet in the Kiltie Cafe in honor of 
the holidays.
with a logical and peaceful course of events. 
Each entry should also include a completed 
application form, available in Baker Hall 129. 
Scenarios will be judged on creativity, plausi
bility, good writing, as well as the feasibility of 
developing them into publishable products. 
Informal interviews may be requested during 
this phase.
Winners from Phase I will be invited to 
accept fellowships of $5000 or more to sup
port their participation in the second phase. At 
this time, winners will meet with each other, 
IPS faculty, and a variety of outside experts in 
the fields relevant to the scenarios. Through 
workshops and consultations, winners will be 
assisted in preparing final, publishable scenar
ios for peace. The deadline for submissions is 
October 16, 1987. Winners will be notified 
December 7,1987, and Phase II will run con
currently with CMUs spring semester of 
1988. In addition, special academic awards are 
available for full-time CMU and cross-regis
tration students granting course credit for 
successful completion of their scenarios. 
These awards will include up to $500 for 
expenses such as books or travel. So come on 
all you doubting Thomases, seeing is believing-imagine peace!
Never At A Loss 
For Words...
By JUDY HARABURDA
Assistant Feautures Editor
Welcome to the world of UNEX
PLAINED CMU SNIGLETS. A 
sniglet, according to comedian Rich 
Hall (of Saturday Night Live fame) and 
friends, is any word that doesnt ap
pear in the dictionary but should. 
Here are a few sniglets unique to CMU 
for your reading pleasure:
1geo*tint.N. Multi-colored 
rocks under The Fence.
2perforlizer.V. Machine 
that plucks holes of dirt in the lawn 
every spring.
3am*bi*limb*ists.N. People 
who wear backpacks over both shoul
ders (bikers excluded).
4sculpt*awreck.N. Sculpture 
between Wean and Porter.
5frus*tra*la*tors.N. Elevators 
in Morewood that completely ignore 
signals.
6thresh weight.N. Heavy doors 
that make entrance into Warner Hall a 
major weight-lifting work out.
7cram*o*mat*ic.N. Industrial 
strength washers and dryers into which 
you can cram four weeks of dirty laun
dry.
8rock*surf.V. To slide down 
the sea of rocks behind CFA.
9psychoau*ral*o*sisN. Con
dition that sets in after listening to too 
many hours of WRCT.
10spooge.N. Curious and lethal 
chemical compound of beer, dirt, 
sweat, and other unidentified sub
stances that accumulates on dance 
floors at frats.
11candyslam.N. Toram ones 
body against a vending machine to 
loosen a dangling bag of chips.
12ware*nap*ping.N. Borrow
ing UDS frays, plasticware, plates, 
silverware, salt shakers, etc. for dorm 
room use.
13news stop.N. Abrupt ending 
to a Tartan Features article.

---------------------------------------------------

On Friday February 19th, sometime in the afternoon, an 
interesting thing happened on the campus of Carnegie 
Mellon University in Pittsburgh. The sun came out. It is 
important to state that the weather itself was not the 
interesting thing happening here (the sun always shines 
on Pittsburgh!), rather it is the events that occur on a 
college campus as a result of exposure to the sun which can 
be interesting.
Field photographer Deborah Mindel was witness to the 
following moments in a day in the life at Carnegie Mellon. 
Thanks to Deborahs keen eye weve been able to record, 
and share with you, the first hints of spring at CMU.
odr

---------------------------------------------------

9
^-QJiLU-io ndrAAAew - c^ftJki/-v^ u^> <jvc_ 
ruu^, CW-dL WUUM^ -tluLJu^-.
W-._ Vv**^6 
Vus^T .
. .  dyiA^
^kju-jJL CjvflJtC *
Photos by Deborah Mindel 
and
Tartan File Photos
AA dmissonC uelrC o^cru. &pa*JL dL dx/r**7
ceUi_uv>g. MS.

---------------------------------------------------

By ELIZABETH SHERLOCK
Tartan Stqffwriter
Thanksgiving has got to be one of the most 
boring holidays. Come on, you have to admit 
Nothing exciting ever happens. Its always the 
same old thing. Same food. Same people. 
Same indigestion. Thats what I thought any
way.
Au contraire! If you think about it hard 
enough, Im sure you can think of some year, 
some time, when something totally out of the 
ordinary happened. After they thought about 
it, these CMU students did:
First theres Maureen. My mom is a nurse 
and she had to work all day this one Thanks
giving. So, my father and brother and I waited 
anxiously for her to come home. When mom 
finally did come home, we all loaded into the 
car to go out to dinner. But nothing was open. 
So, you know what I had for Thanksgiving 
dinner that year? A Super Taco at the Jack-inthe-Box fast food place. The only realy bad 
part was when everyone at school started pity
ing me because I didn  t have turkey and turkey 
leftovers.
And then there was John with the Thanks
giving that Uncle Tank had a little too much to 
drink. You see, Uncle Tank didnt get his 
name from his bad drinking habit, but instead 
from his childhood. Back when he was 
younger, somewhere around twelve years of 
age, he and my Uncle Larry would motor 
through their neighborhood pretending they 
were tanks. Of course, they used neighbors 
flower gardens as victims, which is totally 
irrelevant to this story. So Uncle Tank got 
tanked (no pun intended) before Thanksgiving 
Dinner, and passed out in our Lazy-Boy recliner downstairs. He slept through the entire 
Thanksgiving dinner. The next year, I dont 
know, I was young, I was stupid, I said to 
Uncle Tank, Hey, Uncle Tank, you didnt 
sleep through Thanksgiving this year!  I could 
not figure out for the life of me why no one 
laughed.
Frank couldnt think of anything extraordi
nary to tell me. I dontknow, I guess just that 
my family names the turkey every year. Usu
ally its something starting with a t. It turns 
out to be Tommy a lot And its never a girl.
One year Debbie had the cleanest turkey in 
the neighborhood. Well, my grandmother 
was all worried about the spots on the cran
berry sauce dishes and she absolutely had to 1 
wash them. We all thought she was crazy. 
(Funny we hadnt thought it was crazy when 
she put the turkey in the bottom of the dish
washer to defrost it with the steam.) Well, 
needless to say, good ole granny forgot to take 
the turkey out before she washed the cranberry 
dishes. We wound up having hamburgers and 
cranberry sauce that year for dinnerbut 
those were the cleanest dishes you ever saw! '
Kerry remembered some freak storm back 
at home one year. We didnt have any heat or 
electricity. We were all using gas lanterns and 
candles and we were all hungry, staring at the 
half-cooked turkey. We wound up talking and 
laughing and dancing to my hand radio. My 
Uncle Jimmy made dinner with the batterycharged waffle iron. It was the best Thanks
giving I ever had. *
But I really think Lisas story has to take the 
cake. My dad does all the shopping in our 
house, but for some reason, my mother always 
buys the turkey. This one year, she got really 
busy and so she told my dad, the day before 
Thanksgiving, to go get one. It had to be big 
and it had to be fresh. We didnt have enough 
time to thaw it. Well, dad came home with a 
big, fresh, frozen turkey. Mom threw a fit! S he 1
wound up giving the turkey a shower for 
like..., I dont know, hours! But did you ever 
see what happens to a turkey after you soak it 
in hot water for hours? Its nasty. I think we 
had pork chops that year.
Thanks for the stories everyone! And be
fore you start thinking that Thanksgiving is all 
about eating turkey, think again. Some of the 
best Thanksgivings dont necessarily start out ;
that way.
CITY LIGHTS
City Lights is a 
w c e k 1.  
fcommu ait.
C eom : ::;:u^ m||n-.
; jpxmi^evenkJ!
JfThe.ipringtSS.;Jserxis l.'pfj\ ' A*
Question of 
Weefebwsyri  he a dul worfehpp to 
accommodate eclectic schedules. The 
i series consists of 2 sections of 7 weekly 
sessions each. Section 1 begins at 430 pm 
I oh Thursday ; February ^Section 2 will 
commence at 11:00 iro ; on Saturday;; 
! February 27 The sessions are 
1 approximately 11/2 hour each, witha first 
extended session of 2 hours* Registration 
I cards for A Question of Academics are 
1 available at Skibo Information Desk. The 
deadline for registration is today* There is 
no charge. For more information, contact 
Mark Schmidt at x5446.
Citiparks will sponsor a performance of 
(Wifliam Anku and the African Drum 
I Ensemble^: and Temujin Ekunfeo the 
!'$toryteUei;:in. conjunction with Black 
 History Month. : The performance runs 
from 7:00 to 8:30,February 23 to MarchS, 
:|at the North view Heights Recreation 
' Center, for more Mycatt 255-8975* 
Carlow College will present an exhibition 
Ca of two Pittsburgh artists BethKukcka and 
Kathleen Zimbicki Tuesday through Sat
urday, i0amto4pm, February l4-26inthe 
Mellon galleries,*13* UP OaUety,3816 Forbes Avenue, 
m# present n ^exhibitiiwt.. Of Diane
Samuels sculp
ture from February 
20 to March 20. 
The gallery isopen 
Tuesday to Satur
day IQ am-4 pm 
and Sunday 2-5;
Highway 66 and 
: Other Views^ a 
photography series : by Anhe;hbein, 
shows Fbi 18-&arch 22 in the Caftiegie| 
Mellon Hewlett Gallery iin the Fine Arts 
Building.
The Community College of Allegheny 
County Gospel Ensemble will present a 
three day Gcispel Music/Chorale Work
shop conducted by renowned Gospel artist 
Thomas Whitfield on February 25,26, and 
27. The workshop culminates with a con
cert by Mr. Whitfield and the workshop 
choir on February 27 at 7:00 pm at the 
Northside Church of God in Christ For 
more information* call Fran Howse at 237 
2643. ', ; f 1:|-
Tuesday, February 25 :
-The University of Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra will present a concert featuring 
Pittsburgh-born violinist Todd Phillips at 
8:30 pm in William Pitt Union Ballroom. 
Wednesday, February 24: ||i| 
Right-Brain People in a Left-Brain 
Worid, a lecture and discussion by LaDonna Bates, will be held at the Center for 
Human Development, 401 Shady Avenue 
at 8 pm. The fee for the lecture is $6. For 
reservations call 361-1400, Formore infor
mation, call 782*0428*
1 j Compiled by TERENCE SPIES
Page 14  The Tartan  Spring 1988
Juniors Joel Douglas and Mark Leidner and Senior Curt Rissmiller take advantage of the unseasonal weather as they clown on the cut Sunday.
photo by Howdy Pierce
Kalvan Juggles Strange
Hobby, Career, and Studies
By KRISHNAN SOMASUNDARAM
Tartan Staffwriter
Picture this: you sit in Gray Matter waiting 
to meet a friend. You watch the people go by 
to pass the time. But this one guy has really 
caught your attention. Hes wearing a tie-dye 
T-shirt and black shorts in January. Pretty 
normal for CMU, huh? Sure, but this guy is 
juggling six juggling pins, a couple of tennis 
balls, riding a unicycle with amazing grace, 
and carrying on casual conversations with 
several people all at once!
Who is he? Hes Jack Kalvan, a junior 
mechanical engineer from Miami, Florida. 
Dont be fooled by his ordinary or boyish 
appearance. Hes nothing short of a juggling 
whiz. Jack juggles just about anything: pins, 
balls  even eggs. But his acrobatic skill 
spans a wide range indeed. The tightrope, the 
stilts, the unicycle, the balance board, and 
devil sticks all are childs play for Jack.
Anyone who has seen Jack performing 
knows the intensity in his juggling perform
ances. While expertly riding a unicycle (back
wards and forwards), six or seven juggling 
pins soar several feet above his head in a 
continuous circle. He tosses them back and 
forth to his two juggling partners while some
one else tosses in extra pins and tennis balls 
indiscriminately. All this he does easily.
His juggling career started when he 
watched a very young boy on Thats Incred
ible! a few years ago. I saw this little kid 
[eight year old Anthony Gatto] juggle all sorts 
of things with tremendous ease, and I thought 
this would be a really neat thing to do, so I 
started in my backyard with tennis balls and 
just kept at it I practiced several hours a week. 
About three years ago, I joined a club in 
Florida. We performed locally and had a good 
time doing it
So, is this juggling thing almost impossible 
to learn? Not at all, says Jack. Almost 
anyone can learn. Youd be surprised how 
seemingly uncoordinated people have become 
quite impressive in such a short span of time. 
All it really takes is determination and tenac
ity, and from then on, its just a matter of time 
before juggling becomes second nature. In
fact Jack says he has taught literally hundreds 
of people, many of them at CMU. He founded 
the juggling club on campus, which boasts a 
growing thirty-person membership. Rick 
Rubenstein, a member, says, Jack is really 
quite an inspiration....He makes us see how 
fun and easy juggling really can be.
His juggling talent has recently brought 
him much recognition. He has performed at 
national conventions in Atlanta, San Hose, 
Akron, Pittsburgh, and Miami. He performed 
at the Rocky Mountain and Renaissance Fes
tivals. He has been featured in Jugglers World
Kalvan performs at Madrigal Feast 87.
Magazine, many newspapers, and has placed 
third in the National Numbers Championship 
in juggling. Jack has done numerous on-campus juggling shows, such as freshmen orienta
tions and Madrigal Feast 87.
In the Carnegie Mellon community, Jacks 
life is far from being limited to juggling. Be
sides being a very active A Phi O brother, he 
does body work on buggy for CIA, hes a 
member of ASME, and he worked with design, 
wiring, and machining parts at the robotics 
department as well.
Jack is also a total vegetarian. Its mainly 
for health and moral reasons, he comments.
Although he has no plans to quit school or 
join a circus, he remarks, Im practicing and 
performing more now than ever. Its some
thing I really want to do. Juggling is something 
I wont ever give up. He jokes, who knows, 
maybe youll see me in Las Vegas some day!
Tales Of TurkeyStudents Share Seasonal Stories

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988  The Tartan  Page 15
Madrigal Feast Reenacts History and Spirit
By HOWDY PIERCE . L m J FBy HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor
A dinner to celebrate the beginning of the 
Christinas season. Thats how Anne Witch
ner, Director of Student Activities, describes 
the upcoming Madrigal Feast. The whole 
evening is reminiscent of the medieval time 
period.
The dinner, jointly sponsored by the De
partment of Student Affairs, Activities Board
in costume.
During the feast, entertainment will be pro
vided by the Cameron Choir and Friends. In 
addition, magicians, dancers, and jugglers will 
be on hand to add to the festivities. And of 
course the court jester will oversee all of the 
fun.
This is something that has been very 
prominent on college campuses across the 
country, says Witchner. But theyre using it
as a fund-raiser. Were subsidizing it to keep 
the cost down.
The Madrigal Feast has been advertised as 
a dinner to which guests should wear tradi
tional costume. But Witchner insists students 
shouldnt feel pressured to come in 16th cen
tury finery. Only about 30% of the guests are 
dressed up, she stated.
The feasting begins at 7:00, but is preceded 
by a reception at 6:00.
5^ .2 2? sa '5IT  G 2 -5 
04a - ^ ~ _
________3-
^ ^ > .h Si Si i?I Ioc c
a-8i-* a 8 S s - g 3.1 k
ji'c 2 2i 5j o 3S -c a ft. o ^ ^
ft Q
 Si S '2 2 5
 a < Q r\
ft i 2 s
a  o ~s -c  'vp ^
S S.-S a. ji 
o 3 "S E v
1 -3 I e I
t* ^ ^ , <3:NfeS.
ft SsftS pu

---------------------------------------------------

The Midway is filled with rides and with booths from organizations, sororities, and fraternities. A good 
time is had by all.
As usual, Flagstaff Hill was crowded by Sweepstakes watchers. The nice weather brought out Pitts
burghers as well as the Carnegie Mellon crowds, not to mention grilled hamburgers and other food.
Scott Osman gets a big hug as Pika celebrates their win in the mens competition. In winning, they set a 
new race record of 2:08:67, breaking the 2:09:00 mark set in 1983 by their own Bullet.
When vou iust cant get
Spring Carnival
Fairy Tales
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Special Issue Editor
Spring Carnival is a time for students to take a few days off 
from their academic activities and have loads of fun! Carnival 
is just that: games, rides, food, fun. The parking lot of Skibo 
Hall is transformed from a respite for automobiles to a haven for 
students.
Rides of all kinds are brought in, from a merry-go-round for 
the toddlers, to the Gravitron for the older ones. Food (mostly 
carnival type food, you know, the kinds Mom doesnt want you 
to touch) is plentiful. People take advantage of the nice weather 
(its always nice for our carnivals) and work on their summer 
tans. Fun and good times just aboundin everywhere.
Perhaps the most enjoyable part of Carnival (next to Buggy) 
is Booth. Students from over 35 different organizations get 
together and create carnival booths each year for the event. 
These are based on a theme, this year's being Fairy Tales. In 
the past years, weve had Hollywood, Around the World, and 
Animation. The booths reflect the theme, and usually involve 
some type of game to be won, with prizes, just like a real 
carnival. Students work all semester on these booths, often 
electrifying them, or creating artistic masterpieces, as the 
yearly competition for the best booth is fierce.
The proceeds from the event go toward charities.
There is also plenty of entertainment from local rock and jazz 
bands, comedians, dances, and fireworks. People from the 
community, students from local universities, and Carnegie 
Mellon Alumni come out in force to be a part of the fun.
This years carnival is expected to be the largest ever. The 
slogan is When you just cant get the real thing, to go along 
with the Fairy Tale motif.
Carnival this year will be held from Thursday April 14 
through Saturday April 16. If you happen to be in the neighbor
hood, we welcome you to drop by, and share in the fun!
The Scots with their Bagpipes are a tradition at carnival.

---------------------------------------------------

Sweepstakes
Buggy
Buggy (aka Sweepstakes) is the culmination of a full year of 
intense preparation by over fifteen campus organizations. The 
goal of all these organizations is the same as it has been since 
before World War I: to have the fastest buggy on the course.
But what is a buggy?A buggy usually resembles a superstreamlined soapbox racer, 
i and is pushed by the strongest, fastest men and women on 
campus. Engineers, designers, architects, artists, and every other 
major on campus work together on the production of a buggy. 
Some buggy-budgets break the six thousand dollar mark in a 
single year.
Students begin serious work on their buggies as soon as the 
year's race is finished. There are 5 am push practices throughout 
the Spring semester, and testing of breaks and freerolls in the late 
Fall.
1 The buggy course, which begins at the bottom of Tech Street 
and continues through Schenley Park is a series of five hills 
(inclines) and one free-roll (drop). There are five pushers per 
team, and one driver, who usually is packed into the buggy on his/ 
her stomach, some of the faster buggies can make speeds as high 
as 35 miles per hour when entering the chute (free-roll drop). The 
steering and braking is controlled by the driver, but the muscle 
power is provided by the push-team. Competition is unbelieva
bly fierce.
1 If you bring a camera, dont get too close. These are supersecret designs created to win! Who knows, you may be a spy from 
your archrival trying to steal race secrets...
Perhaps the most exciting day of the year on campus comes 
during Spring Carnival when huge crowds gather for the final 
sweepstakes races. All the weekends of early morning (5 am) 
practices during the year finally come to a wild culmination. 
There are many heats druing the weekend of Spring Carnival all 
f which are fierce. Tensions are high, but everyone has lots of 
fun. There is true rejoycing at Carnegie Mellon when the final 
^ce is over and the winner is decided.
Photos by: Albrecht Powell 
Jack Poller 
Olve Peersen
the real thing:
Pi Lambda Phis Legend (on right) and SDCs Blue Haze through the chute. Legend came danger
ously close to the haybales, but came out just fine.
Pi Lambda Phis Legend and SDCs Blue Haze neck and neck across the finish line by Hunt Li
brary.
The start of the race from Margaret Morrisons point of view.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon's Limo, the annual really last place finisher was the only team to break the 3 
mmute barrier at 3:31:61. Dressed in tnxes and tales, the Limo team may be slow, but definitely 
finished with class!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18  The Tartan  Spring 1988
Time Magazines 1984 Man of the Year
Ueberroth To Give Fairless Lecture This Month
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Assistant News Editor
On February 15, Peter V. Ueberroth will give Carnegie 
Mellon's 1988 Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lecture entitled 
If Enough People Care. Ueberroth was elected baseballs 
sixth commissioner by the 26 Major League owners in March 
1984.
Prior to his election, Ueberroth served five years as President 
and Chief Executive Officer of the Los Angeles Olympic Or
ganizing Committee (LAOOC). A private, non-profit organi
zation, the LAOOC was responsible for staging and operating 
the 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games. Under Ueberroths 
leadership, the first privately financed Olympic games resulted 
in a surplus of nearly $250 million, which today supports youth 
and sports programs throughout the United States. His story 
about the 1984 Olympic Games, Made In America, was pub
lished in 1985 by William Morrow and is a best seller.
As a result of his success with the Los Angeles Olympic 
Games, Ueberroth was named Time magazines 1984 Man of 
the Year.
Ueberroth was a star athlete throughout his high school (Fre
mont Union High School, California) and college (San Jose 
State University) years. After graduating from San Jose State 
with a degree in business. Ueberroth moved to Hawaii, where 
he launched a career in the travel industry. At the age of 22. he 
became a vice president and shareholder in Trans International 
Airlines, owned by Los Angeles financier Kirk Kerkorian. In 
1963, he founded the First Travel Corporation. When he sold 
the company in 1980, it was the second largest travel business 
in North America.
Ueberroth has received honorary degrees from the Monterey
Baseball Commissioner Peter Ueberroth will speak at Car
negie Mellon on February 15th. Tickets are available 
through GSIA.
Institute of International Studies, Pepperdine University, 
Claremont McKenna College, Loyola-Marymount University, 
College of the Holy Cross, San Jose State University, Lafayette^ 
College, Ohio University, and the University of Maryland. He 
is also a Scopus Laureate from the University of Jerusalem. He 
has received several awards, including the French Legion 
dHonneur; Royal Order of the Polar Star from His Majesty, the 
King of Sweden; and the Olympic Order, Gold, International 
Olympic Committee.
The Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lectures endowment 
fund was established at Carnegie Mellon University by friends . 
of Mr. Fairless to support a series of annual lectures. Interna-^ 
tionally known figures from the world of business, government 
or education are invited each year to lecture at Carnegie Mellon 
under the auspices of the Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration.
In accordance with the lecture series policy, GSIA is not 
allowed to disclose the specific topic on which Ueberroth will 
speak. The lecture title, however, is If Enough People Care.
The lectures focus on aspects of business or public admini
stration; the relationships between business and government,^ 
management and labor, or a subject related to the themes of 
preserving economic freedom, human liberty and the strength
ening of individual enterprise  all of which were matters of 
deep concern to Mr. Fairless throughout his career.
Mr. Fairless was President of United States Steel Corporation 
for fifteen years and Chairman of the Board from 1952 until his 
retirement in 1955. A friend of Carnegie Mellon University for 
many years, he served on the board of trustees from 1952 until 
his death on January 1, 1962. In 1959 he was named honorary 
chairman of the board. '
Intramural Report:
The Official Story
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter
Kill the Umpire!!! The Ref is out to 
lunch!!! Get some glasses!!!
Ah, sports. It wouldnt be a proper 
athletic contest if someone didnt scream 
at the officials. Players and fans alike 
have developed this deep seated hatred of 
the people who make the calls, mainly 
because the officials can determine who 
wins or loses the game.
Even at Carnegie Mellon this tradition 
of ref hatred exists. Lately there has 
been rumor of dissatisfaction with the 
officials in IM games. It seems that some 
teams feel there is a problem with rules 
interpretation between referees and play
ers, bad judgement calls and bias on the 
part of the officials. The question be
comes: Why is this happening?
To be an official, a person must be an 
undergraduate or graduate student of 
Carnegie Mellon and attend rules meet
ings. Officials also receive four dollars 
per game. According to Pat Jeffries, 
President of Officials, the rules meetings 
are set up to eliminate problems such as 
interpretation by making clear the rules 
that IM adheres to. It is up to the officials 
to comprehend the game. Jeffries admits 
that interpretation could be helped, but 
that could only be done through a major 
session, but there is no time or place to do 
so. When asked if people were just taking 
the position because of the money in
volved, Jeffries said that for some 
money is a lure, but nobody would take
that harassment solely for the money. 
The refs must be people who are interested 
in sports and want to be officials for that 
reason.
Jeffries also explained that they try to 
eliminate bias by switching the refs ac
cording to the game, so that if someone 
has an interest in a particular team they 
wont be on that game. Because the play
ers and the officials are students, elimina
tion of bias is not always possible given 
whos ref.
The only area that has real potential for 
dissension between the officials and the 
players is in the area of judgement calls. 
This is where the human element makes a 
large difference. Bad calls happen no 
matter what sportno matter whos call
ing, according to Jeffries, and there isnt 
too much that can be done about it He 
feels that complaints are to be expected, 
and some problems are because the offi
cials dont explain what theyre doing. 
Jeffries says that he ha[s]nt seen any 
problems this year, overall.
So should the Carnegie Mellon refe
rees be strung up by their toenails and be 
pummeled with the orange cone markers? 
Only if they fit the criteria of consistently 
making bad calls, being biased, and hav
ing absolutely no clue as to what the rules 
are. This screening will keep out the 
cruel referees. It can be expected that 
even with threats of death by IM equip
ment there will always be some com
plaints about the officials. But hey, 
theyre only human...
Runners Gear Up for 
Pittsburghs Great Race
Tartan Sports Calendar
November 14: Football vs. Washington (Mo) at Tech Field, 12:30 pm (WRCT) 
Men's Cross Country NCAA Regionals at Allentown 
Women's Cross Country NCAA Regionals at Allentown
PITTSBURGHOn September 27, 1987 
at 9 am, approximately 13,000runners from all 
over the country (last year forty-two states and 
Washington D.C. were represented) will chal
lenge  or be challenged by  the scenic 
course set through the streets of Pittsburgh, in 
the City of Pittsburghs Great Race. And its 
not too late for you to register. Applications are 
available at all Landmark Savings Associa
tions, Wendys and Kaufmanns Department 
Stores, and Carnegie Libraries, Nissan deal
ers, and various health clubs and sporting 
goods stores in the Pittsburgh area.
To beat the deadline, the pre-registration 
fee of $8.00 must be postmarked by no later 
than September 9,1987. The late registration 
fee increases to $12.00 for race applications 
postmarked after September 9. You can also 
register late by mail until September 21 or at 
runners package pick-up until September 26 
at Kaufmanns, Downtown, 11th floor audito
rium, during business hours.
Motivating runners to secure the best time 
will be cash prizes totaling $15,000, an in
crease of $5,000 from last year. Cash prizes 
will be awarded to the top twelve registered 
male and female finishers at a post-race 
awards ceremony at the Pittsburgh Hilton and 
Towers, at 11 am. In addition, prizes will be 
awarded to the top finishers in the Challenged 
Division, the Corporate Division and the 
Masters Division. The overall winners of the 
Corporate Team competition will receive, and 
keep for one year, the Great Race travelling 
Corporate Team Cup.
This year, a special bonus of $12,000 will 
be awarded to the male and female who estab
lish a world-best time as recognized by 
TACSTATS/USA. As of July 1987 the times 
to beat are as follows: Male/27:22 (Marie 
Nenow in Crescent City, LA, 1984), Female/ 
31:31 (Wendy Sly in Crescent City, LA, 
1983). The bonus was initiated last year and is 
increased this year by $2,000.
Running Times Magazine rated the Great 
Races 10,000 meter, TAC certified course 
among the four fastest 10K courses in the 
country. As in the past, the point-to-point 
course will start on Beechwood Boulevard and 
finish in Point State Park.
With a new computerized system intro
duced last year, The Great Race has become 
more efficient and more accurate. Once again ^ 
a computerized registration form will be util
ized to expedite the registration process and 
aid in compiling results. Each runner will be 
identified on The Great Race computer data
base so that the results can be electronically 
fed directly to the media.
This is how the system works: Runners 
wear a numbered bib which has a bar code 
label and tear-off tag listing the runner  s name, 
sex, age and T-shirt size. After runners pass 
through one of the five finish gates, they are 
directed through one of thirty processing 
chutes. The tear-off tags are collected at the 
end of the chutes and taken to race results 
headquarters where they are scanned by port
able bar code readers and loaded into one of 
eight computers to be matched with the proper  
finish time. Post cards listing the contestants 
place in their division, overall place, time and 
pace per mile are mailed the day of the event.
Mike Bums is the official time-keeper for 
the second year and promises that this efficient 
bar code system will make the processing 50% 
faster. His company, Bums Computer Serv
ices of Ann Arbor, Michigan, has specialized 
in computerized timing of running events for r 
the past six years. His company was also 
selected to provide services for the New Jersey 
Waterfront Marathon in Jersey City, which 
has been designated the official 1988 Olympic 
Trials for men. B urns has been race director for 
ten years and holds a B.S. degree in Computer 
Science.
For more information or to volunteer, call 
the Great Race Hotline at 255-2493.

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988  The Tartan  Page 19
* Mens Basketball Looking to Contend in 1988
By DAVID WILLIS
Tartan Staffwriter 
Coining off a third place finish last season in 
the Presidents Athletic Conference, the Car
negie Mellon basketball squad is looking to 
contend again this year. Coach Larry 
} Andersons squad returns all but three of last 
years varsity players, fielding a strong nu
cleus for the upcoming season.
The Tartans main strength is in the front 
court, led by senior captain Hart Coleman at 
center. Coleman was sixth in the league in 
scoring last year (15.5 points per game), and 
second in rebounding (8.9 rpg). Anderson is 
looking for him to be a dominating force on the 
. boards once again this year. Ideally, Coleman 
could score 15-20 points per game, but he may 
not have to if forwards Daren Moffatt and 
Darryl Long fulfill expectations.
Moffatt will most likely see action at the 
power forward position, where Anderson 
hopes he can make significant contributions. 
Longs athletic ability provides a great deal of 
flexibility at the other forward spot. Anderson 
m can call on him to score the tough inside points, 
or have him shoot from outside where he is
By NEAL A. LEVENE 
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Tartan Womens Tennis Team just fin* ished what will probably be their toughest 
regular season week. After shutting out 
Robert Morris College with relative ease last 
Tuesday, the team travelled to both Grove City 
and John Carroll. Carnegie Mellon was de
feated 5-4 by Grove City, proving that the 
Lady Wolverines are once again the team to 
beat this year in the PAC Championships. 
Two days later, the Lady Tartans were on the 
\ road again, this time to Ohio, where they 
defeated the John Carroll Blue Streaks in a 7-
2 tournament.
Although Carnegie Mellon lost to Grove 
City, thus ending the Tartans undefeated 
streak, the women played a very tough match. 
After the singles matches, the score was tied 3-
equally capable; his defensive play is an added 
plus.
Unlike last season, when injuries to Coleman 
and David Bart were nearly disastrous, this 
years squad has much improved depth in the 
front line. David Sikora and David Smith will 
most likely see plenty of playing time in re
serve and should be capable of filling in for an 
injured starter. Anderson noted that Sikora 
could become the emotional leader of this 
team. His dedication in practice and aggres
sive play are contagious and could make the 
difference in close games.
If there is an exploitable weakness on this 
years roundball team, it is in the backcouit. 
Scoring from the guard spot could be a serious 
problem, but Anderson has several options 
open to him. Look for senior Tom Franklin, a 
four year veteran, to see most of the action at 
point guard. His talents are particularly suited 
for that position where the emphasis is on 
playmaking and not scoring. Franklin took 
just 36 shots in 22 games last year, averaging 
1.5 points per game, but can be counted on to 
be among the team leaders in assists.
Several underclassmen will compete for the
3. Singles wins were recorded at #2 singles by 
Beth Cavanaugh (6-4,6-4), at #5 by Tracy 
Boyd, and at #6 by newcomer Alice Garber. 
Carnegie Mellon needed two wins at doubles 
to take the tournament.
At #1 doubles, Beth Cavanaugh and Suzy 
Dottor pulled out a very close win against their 
opponents Julie Caruso and Linda Lex. Ac
cording to Cavanaugh, We were really taken 
by surprise. This was the toughest team we 
had ever met. They played very strong net and 
we couldnt hit any winners. We just didnt 
know what to do with them. The team lost the 
first set 6-2; however, with a change in strat
egy it was able to pull out the rest of the match
6-1,7-5. When the team discovered they were 
not going to be able to get the ball past Caruso 
and Lex, they decided they would have to play 
smart, consistent tennis. We just outlasted
other guard spot, with Harvey Beckham hav
ing the inside shot at this juncture. Beckham, 
a sophomore, could be the key figure in the 
Tartans hopes this season. Anderson believes 
all the ability is there, and hopes that more 
playing time and a years experience will al
low him to emerge as a strength. Several 
freshmen will be vying for the remaining 
backcourt openings; including Mike Reed, 
Keith Morgan, and Lewis Jackson.
In evaluating his teams chances for the 
upcoming season, Anderson felt the keys will 
be an injury free year and strong performances 
from the frontcourt. He stressed the need for 
patience with the younger members of the 
team, and he acknowledged that his dual role 
as coach is to make the team believe they can 
win, and then let them play their game. Home 
games are of particular significance in the 
PAC, where more than one loss on the home 
court could cost a team a shot at the champion
ship. Anderson feels that the biggest compe
tition will probably come from John Carroll, 
which just keeps pulling players out of the 
woodwork, and Grove City, which lost no 
starters from last years team. He also noted
them, Cavanaugh said.
The other doubles matches did not go as well. 
Andrea Benowitz and Tracy Boyd lost at #2 
with a score 6-1,6-3. Similarly, the freshman 
tandem of Alice Garber and Mary Beth Ashbaugh were unable to beat the net attack of 
Debra Cairns and Chris Martin losing their 
match 6-1,6-2.
Carnegie Mellon showed great improvement 
over last years match against Grove City 
where CMU was defeated 6-3. Coach Dave 
Lichtman commented, We played well, but 
we were just beat. Grove City played a fantas
tic net game, and the net is one of our weak
nesses. I think if we can have just a 10% 
improvement in our game between now and 
the PACs, we should be able to take the 
championship.
After the defeat by Grove City, Carnegie 
Mellon crushed John Carroll, 7-2. Apparently 
John Carroll lost a lot of people this year; this 
team did not have the quality of the team the 
Tartans faced last year. Wins were tallied at 
all singles positions except #1 where Suzy 
Dottor struggled with last years #2 PAC 
champion Liz Hanna.
The big surprise, however, came at #1 
doubles where Cavanaugh and Dottor were 
defeated for the first time since they started 
playing together by Liz Hanna and Daniela 
Lungociv. Both teams had been undefeated 
before the match, yet, in an extremely close 
match John Carroll won 7-5, 5-7, 6-4. The 
team was disappointed by their loss, however, 
they will now concentrate on winning the 
PACs.
Coming into the stretch the women are play
ing extremely well. Both Beth Cavanaugh and 
freshman Alice Garber remain undefeated at 
#2 and #6 respectively. Beth Cavanaugh has 
won her last 12 consecutive matches making 
her career record 13-1. Her only loss at singles 
came in her second college match last year 
against Pitt. Alice Garber has won her last four 
matches since joining the line-up against W&J 
and promises to continue to be an important 
part of the team in the future. Amy Fibus at #4 
and Tracy Boyd at #5 have only lost one match 
this season.
The Lady Tartans in-conference record is 
now 1-1 with the suspended match against 
Washington & Jefferson and a match against 
Thiel College still to be played. Hiram has 
refused to reschedule their earlier rained out 
match. The Lady Tartans overall record is 
now 4-1. The tennis team next faces Califor
nia University of Pennsylvania at home.
Washington and Jefferson, with a bigger and 
stronger lineup, and Bethany as teams on the 
rise.
Of additional interest this year should be 
the Tartans participation in the UAA as well 
as PAC. The UAA is likely to bring more na
tional attention to Carnegie Mellon which will 
benefit from the major markets in Chicago, 
New York, Boston, and Atlanta. Already, a 
rivalry appears to be developing between the 
Tartans and Rochester, which is probably 
beneficial to both schools. Anderson looks at 
the squad as having an improved attitude this 
year, but said that what he would like more 
than anything else is to see the gym packed for 
opening night
Soccer Tartans Kick 
Clean in NYU Mud
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
For the second week in a row, the 
soccer Tartans had traveled by air to 
meet a University Athletic Association 
opponent. This time though, the Tartans 
almost didnt get to play. The soccer 
squad had gone to New York to meet 
New York University in their first ever 
soccer match, but along with their bags 
and spikes, the Tartans brought the 
Pittsburgh weather with them.
Heavy rains in the New York area 
made the field at Staten Island College, 
where the Violets play their soccer 
matches, almost unplayable. In fact, the 
three officials who were there felt that 
the field v as unplayable and refused to 
allow the two teams to take the field 
This decision did not sit well with the 
NYU representatives at the games who 
told the referees to either let the two 
teams play or to go home. The officials 
at that point left, and as soot as new 
referees where found, the game began.
It took both teams time to find their 
footing on the field, but with 25 minutes 
gone in the first half, freshman back 
Scott May took a pass from another 
freshman, midfielder Chris Kasabach 
and converted it into his first goal as a 
Tartan.
The score stayed the same until fifteen 
minutes into the second half when sen
ior co-captain Kevin Jung scored his 
second goal in as many games on a free 
kick from about twenty-five yards out. 
The Tartans got a third goal with fifteen 
minutes left under freak circumstances. 
Kasabach chipped a shot over the NYU 
goalies head which was tipped away by 
another Violet defenders hand. On the 
ensuing penalty kick, sophomore Eddie 
Park scored to make the final score 3-0.
With the treacherous conditions, shots 
were few and far between. The Tartan 
defense capitalized on this, holding 
NYU to one shot. Under these circum
stances, the Tartans tried out a new 
goalie. Starter John Selmer played the 
first eighty minutes of the match. How
ever, the last ten minutes were played by 
Glen Hoogerwerf,an all-state goalie for 
his high school in Everett, Wash., who 
until last week had been a kick- on the 
football Tartans.
In comments right after the game, 
Coach Gaudioso was pleased with the 
results. He noted that despite the game 
being played in New York, a Carnegie 
Mellon contingent was out cheering the 
Tartans on. A large portion of the soccer 
Tartans hail from the New York area, 
and they had a great many friends and 
family members cheering them on.
photo by Judy Leppold
The Lady Tartans hit the floor to return a well placed serve. ....
The Lady Tartans extended their winning streak to six matches, defeating 
President's Athletic Conference (PAC) teams Hiram, 3-0, andjohn Carron,2-0,
as well as non-conference opponent LaRoche, 2-01 is we e . e *a
1 in conference play and 11-9 overall. This week, Carnegie Mellon facBethany 
on Tuesday at 7 pm and last year's PAC champion Grove City along w.th Carlow, 
on Thursday at 6pm. All games will be played in the Skibo Gym.
Lady Tartans Survive Rain and Wolverines

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20  The Tartan  Spring 1988
Ruggers Stomp on Salem
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
In the last game of the season, the rugby 
team blew out Salem College, 26-0.
From start to finish, the ruggers thor
oughly controlled the game. However, the 
pace of the game early was Salems. They 
used a kicking game to try to back up the 
ruggers. But once the rugby squad got its 
offense going, the game turned to a runand-hit style in which they have been most 
successful.
The game was marked with tenacious 
hitting. A monstrous tackle precipitated a 
bench-clearing brawl at the end of the first 
half. The two teams had to be separated and 
the half ended 2 minutes early.
The ruggers started the scoring with 
Mike Kleha, the squads leading scorer 
diving into the try zone. Kleha has been the 
catalyst of the offense, scoring first several 
times this season. Pete Wolcott scored the 
second try, making the score 10-0 at the end 
of the first half.
In the second half Pat Boyle punched 
the ball in and then Dorn Ianno broke away 
from the pack to run for 65 yards and score. 
Ianno displayed spectacular moves to get
past Salems fullback and into the try zone. 
Jerry Stocker added 2 extra points and 2 
field goals.
The B team also defeated Salem 32-0. 
They were led by David Brill and John 
Ward who both scored two tries apiece.
Ward started the scoring with a strong 
run up the sideline. He was followed by Jay 
Nesbitt The scoring continued when Brill 
made the first of his two tries on a nice 
slashing run with a key cutback that got him 
into the try zone. Then Ward added another 
try with an equally impressive run breaking 
tackles left and right and bulling his way 
into the try zone.
At half the score was 20-0. In the second 
half the ruggers scored three more times 
with Dan Lemer first, followed by Scott 
Harrison. The last try was scored on a 
combined effort with a few minutes re
maining.
The victory left the B team at 2-2-2 on 
the season.
The A team finished the fall at 6-1, a vast 
improvement over last springs 1-5 record. 
The ruggers are looking forward to the 
spring season and encourage any new 
members to join them in the spring.
Swimmers Face Second Half of 
Season with Strong Record
>
photo by Chris Young
The Carnegie Mellon swim teams may be on their way to championship seasons.
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens and womens Tartan swim 
teams should be heading towards productive 
seasons this year as they enter the second half 
of their regular seasons. So far both teams are 
off to good starts.
The men are currently 3-0 in dual meets this 
year. The team started their season way back 
in November with a 4th place finish in the 
Grove City Relays held at Westminster. In the 
meet, the Tartans finished only one point 
behind Grove City, last years Presidents 
Athletic Conference champion.
Carnegie Mellon then went on to beat 
Westminster College 96-87 in a head-to-head 
meet at home in Skibo Gym on December 2. 
Their next meet was not until last week when 
they beat both the Hiram Terriers, 62-49, and 
Bethany Bisons, 85-63.
Last year the team finished second in the 
PAC after completing an impressive 9-1 regu
lar season. This was the best season aCamegie 
Mellon swim team had put together since 
1958.
While the Tartans were nudged out of a first 
place finish by Grove City, freshman Coach 
Jim Perkins did receive the Mens Coach of the 
Year honors for the teams distinguished finish.
Leading up the mens squad this year are 
senior co-captains John Olsavsky and Whit
ney Foster. Last season, Foster received hon
orable mention All American for the 800 
meter freestyle.
Greg Schooley, a junior industrial manager 
major, also received an honorable mention All 
American in the 800 meter free relay. 
Schooley will be defending his 400 meter in
dividual medley title this year in the PAC 
championships.,.. .... ............... .
Similar to the mens team, the womens 
team is also coming off of a second place finish 
in the PAC championships. The team is cur
rently 2-1 in dual meets. After a 4-3 season last 
year, the lady Tartans only missed the PAC 
championship by 3 points.
Earlier this season, the women took 5th 
place in the Grove City Relay. In their next 
match against Westminster College, at Skibo 
Gym, Francesca Crannell set a pool and school
Struggle in Store for USA Skiing
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL 
Tartan Photography Editor
The 15th Winter Olympics will be spec
tacular for Americans as ABC will be devot
ing 95 hours of air time between February 14 
and 28 to the games. Unfortunately, 
Americas chances for medals in alpine 
skiing are rather slim. The Europeans should 
dominate.
Alpine skiing consists of five medal events 
for men and women: downhill, super G, sla
lom, giant slalom, and alpine combinations. 
Competitors ski over a pre-determ ined gated 
course, covering the distances in the shortest 
possible time. Lowest aggregate times deter
mine medal standings. All alpine events will 
be held at Nakiska, on Mount Allen, about 55 
miles southwest of Calgary.
The Swiss will be the ones to watch. They 
are expected to win medals in every alpine 
event, with emphasis put on Peter Muller and 
Pirmin Zurbriggen.
The U.S. has been rebuilding its team in the 
wake of Phil and Steve Mahre who took sev
eral medals in the 1984 games. Americas 
hopes are vested in the womens team. 
Tamara McKinney and Diann Roffe are 
strong medal hopefuls along with Pam 
Fletcher and Debbie Armstrong. The mens 
team lies with Felix McGrath and Bill 
Johnson as iongshots for the combined and 
downhill, respectively.
The downhill at Nakiska is one of the major 
points of controversy in this Olympiad. It is 
steep and demanding on top but, reminiscent 
of the poor run at Lake Placid, is virtually flat 
at the bottom. It took a literal re-shaping of the 
mountain to develop a somewhat reasonable 
downhill run. Racers will need precision on 
the high speed top, and a good tuck for aerody
namics on the lower end. Swiss racers Peter
Muller and Pirmin Zurbriggen are expected to 
sweep this event 
The super G will be entered as an Olympic 
event for the first time this year. It is a combi
nation of downhill and slalom, a long fast run
dotted with a myriad of sharp turns. A steep 
course with few turns will be to the 
downhillers advantage, while a shallow 
course with many turns will be helpful to the 
slalom skier. Nakiska, with its changing ter
rain on the long run, will prove a challenge 
to both skiing types. The Swiss and West 
Germans are expected to be medal winners.
Slalom is the classic event with skiers ne
gotiating sharp quick turns around poles 
(gates) on the slope. With the advent of the 
hinged gate, expect to see racers donning 
much more protective clothing (knee, shin, 
shoulder, and arm pads, in addition to hel
mets) as they literally crash into and through 
the gates. This is an extremely controversial 
move, as skiers are forced to lose some of 
the grace of the turn around the gate in 
exchange for the aggressiveness of having 
to crash through them. It will be a wide open 
event. Switzerland has little in the way of 
slalom racers this year, and surprisingly, 
Austria is expected to make a showing.
Giant Slalom, a variation of slalom with 
the gates more widely spaced, and a much 
faster run, will be extremely good this year 
at Nakiska. The upper slopes of the moun
tain lend themselves perfectly for the GS, 
providing much desired variety in the run. 
The Swiss show up here again (especially 
Zurbriggen) as medal winners, with USAs 
Diann Roffe as a dark horse.
record with a 56.9 finish in the 100 meter frees
tyle. Unfortunately, the team lost the meet, 
100-74.
Last week, the women competed in dual 
meets away against the Hiram Terriers and 
home against the Bethany Bisons. The Tar
tans defeated the Terriers 58-43 and beat the 
Bisons 76-69.
During the meet Crannell, originally from 
Silver Spring, Maryland, broke the record she 
had recently set against Westminster with a 
56.4 finish in the 100 meter freestyle finish. At 
the same meet she also set a pool and school 
record in the 200 meter freestyle with a 2:02.6 
finish. She had held the old record of 2:03.9.
On top of her tworecentrecords, co-captain 
Crannell is a two-time defending PAC cham
pion in the 50 meter freestyle and the defend
ing champion in the 100 meter freestyle.
This weekend both teams competed in the 
Kenyon Invitational. Kenyon is the perennial 
Division III Champion, and Coach Perkins 
went into the meet hoping to gain some expe
rience for his otherwise relatively young 
teams.
Members of the squad will be the guests on 
this weeks Sportsline, Thursday at 8:30 pm 
on WRCT. The teams will next swim against 
the John Carroll Blue Streaks on Saturday, 
January 30, in Skibo Gym starting at 1:00 pm.
Pika Falls
in IM Football Final
By STEWART LEVINE 
Tartan Sports Editor
The King is dead! Long live the King!
Monday night, the long time rulers of 
intramural major league football finally 
fell. A 32-6 victory over Pika-A gave 
Crunch Bunch its first majors title.
Crunch Bunch got all the points it would 
need on its first drive. An excellent kickoff 
return by John Murray allowed Crunch 
Bunch to punch the ball in two plays later, 
taking a 7-0 lead.
Pika closed the gap on their first series, a 
long bomb put them on the board, but the 
missed point after left them behind 7-6. 
They would never catch up.
According to Crunch Bunchs Brad Tay
lor, the two teams earlier meeting helped 
to make the difference. We found the 
defense against them in the last half of the 
first game, he noted.
The intermediate final almost never was 
played. A protest by Easy Money over the 
eligibility of one The Squads player 
forced a postponement of the match until 
Tuesday.
When the match finally was played, The 
Squad defeated the ECE Dynamic Rams,
19-13. ECE got on the board first with an 
early strike in the first quarter to take a 6- 
0 lead. At that point though, The Squad 
took over, to roll to their 19-13.
In the minors final, earlier Monday night, 
Pika-C defeated the ECE (Minors) Dy
namic Rams, 20-7.
ECE had a high-scoring offense that had 
scored points by the bushel all season long, 
but the stiff Pika defense shut the Rams 
down.
Pika was content to play a short yardage 
game of runs and screen passes. Their me
thodical play garnered Pika a 7-0 halftime 
lead. A long touchdown pass early in the 
second half followed by an interception on 
an ECE shovel pass pushed Pikas lead to
20-0 before ECE could finally get on the 
board.
Pikas Eric Friedman claimed his team 
sewed up the game at the start They fell 
behind quickly and had to go for the big 
play.

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988  The Tartan  Page 21
' Lady Tartans Prove Theyre Tough on the Court
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
There are two sides to everything, includ
ing a basketball team.
This was evident at the womens basketball 
teams season opener. In the Carnegie Mellon 
I* Tournament, the Lady Tartans took second 
place, losing to Westminster College 70-59. 
Other teams in the tournament included Uni
versity Athletic Association rivals Brandeis 
University and Case Western Reserve Univer
sity.
In the preliminary round of the tournament, 
Brandeis faced Westminster while Carnegie 
Mellon squared off against Case Western 
t Reserve.
The Lady Tartans started the game with a
Tennis and Touch:
IM Update
With the beginning of classes, the intra? mural program has also started up again. 
This week, entry sheets are already due for 
the first two sports: touch football and ten
nis.
The Carnegie Mellon Intramural De
partment Officials Club opens its second 
full year of service and is looking for new 
members. The goal of the club is to provide 
consistent play and officiating, as well as 
 provide job opportunits for those students 
who join the club. Officials who belong to 
the club are paid the University rate of $4.00 
per game. Officals will be needed for touch 
football, volleyball, and soccer. All those
I who are interested should contact Mike 
Mastroianni, Assistant Intramural Director, 
at x2214 for further information.
One change from last year, the forfeit 
fee has been increased to five dollars. This 
has been done in an effort to give teams 
more of an incentive to not forfeit any 
games.
At the first IM Board Meeting last 
week, a new Board President was elected, 
Rob Shlackman. Two candidates for vicepresident, Stu Fox and Mike Grzywinski, 
and one for secreatry, Chris Young, was 
elected. The position of womens president 
remains open.
Sports in Season:
Touch Football
Commissioners 
Majors - Paul Masalskyx5468 
Intermediate - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski 681-2826 
Women - Position Available 
Entry Date - Sept. 3 
Rules Clinic - Sept. 3, Womens 
Gym at 4:00 pm
Tennis
Commissioner - Mike Hayes x4086 
Entry Date - Sept. 3
Golf
Commissioner- Brian Wilson x 5448 
Entry Date -Sept. 10 
Co-Rec Voleyball 
Entry Date - Sept 10
Faculty & Staff Doubles Tennis
Entry Date - Sept. 10
Cross Country 
Entry Date - Sept. 17
Water Polo
Entry Date - Sept. 17
Chess 
Entry Date - Sept. 17
quick bucket off the tap, and never looked 
back. Carnegie Mellon had a 19-6 lead mid
way through the first half, and there was 5:47 
left to play in the half before Case was able to 
pull their total scoring to double digits.
The Lady Tartans played offense and de
fense equally well. They kept switching from 
man-to-man to various zone defenses. This 
caused Case to turn the ball over 35 times 
during the contest.
Most of Carnegie Meltons offense came 
from the inside, where junior Aimee Reber 
and sophomore Tricia Chorgo combined for 
32 points, 17 and 15 respectively. Chorgo led 
the team in crashing the boards, pulling down 
8 rebounds. Junior Lisa Lightner provided the 
team high of 6 assists.
With the half-time score at 37-16, Head 
Coach Gerri Seidl gave the entire squad some 
playing time. Its games like this that every
one gets to play in. Carnegie Mellon went on 
to win the game 69-30.
Lightner commented on the teams play. 
Weve made a 100% improvement It felt 
like a whole new team, and it is. Everyone 
played really well, and the freshmen should be 
commended for their poise on the court Its a
great way to start a season.
Cases Elaine Cotronakis led the Lady 
Spartans with 17 points. In the other first 
round game, Westminster beat Brandeis 64- 
55.
On Saturday, the other side of the Lady 
Tartans emerged from the locker room to face 
Westminster in the tournament championship 
game. No (me expected to even see the Lady 
Titans at the tournament. Carlow was sup
posed to be the fourth team, but was forced to 
withdraw when they realized that they could 
only muster a squad of two players. Half the 
Carlow roster was committed to the NAIA 
Volleyball Championships, while two more 
players were sidelined with injuries.
Within minutes of the opening tap, Chorgo 
had two personal fouls. Foul trouble would be 
the difference in the game; the Lady Titans 
outscoredCMU on the foul line 28-11. Toadd 
to this, the team was not catching and control
ling the ball. Carnegie Mellon had 12 turn
overs in the first half, while Westminster only 
had 6.
The Lady Tartans led for most of the first 
half, but sloppy play and many personal fouls 
allowed the Lady Titans to catch up and pull
ahead. By the end of the half, three CMU 
starters were in foul trouble, and Westminster 
had scored 18 points, out of a possible 21,on 
the free throw line and held a 40-35 lead.
This was the closest the Lady Tartans came 
to the Lady Titans the rest of the game. Reber, 
Chorgo, and Donna Spicuzza started the sec
ond half with three fouls apiece, and all fouled 
out as the contest closed, with Westminster 
defeating Carnegie Mellon, 70-59.
Offensively, the Lady Tartans were led by 
junior Beth Virgin with 16 points, with Light
ner and Chorgo adding 12 points each. Chorgo 
was the dominant figure in rebounding, re
cording 11. Lightner had three assists. We 
just didnt play well, said Seidl. We were 
fouling too much. In the consolation game, 
Case Western was overwhelmed by Brandeis, 
77-46.
Skinner Named 
First PHI Player
By NEIL GREENBLUM 
Tartan Contributing Editor
With no returning starters and only 
one player older than a sophomore, the 
Tartans were very concerned about their 
linebacking corps. But after Saturdays
7-7 tie with Allegheny, linebacker 
David Skinner has shifted some of that 
concern to excitement
WRCT and The Tartan named 
Skinner the first ever Panther Hollow 
Inn (PHI) Player of the Game for his out
standing performance Saturday. For the 
sophomore from Williamsport, the Al
legheny game marked Skinners first 
start as a Tartan.
Skinner said he felt some pressure, 
but Saturdays game has eased the pres
sure somewhat. I was pretty excited 
about being able to start. Linebacker is 
an important position in our defense. 
We [Skinner and senior Rick LaValle, 
the other starter at linebacker] are ex
pected to make most of the tackles. 
Were involved in a lot of the action, and 
we have to make the plays.
Allegheny tailback Dave Brown 
gave the Tartans fits Saturday, rushing 
for 114 yards and a touchdown. Carne
gie Mellon Head Coach Rich Lackner 
was disappointed the Gators were able to 
establish the ground game, and Skinner 
was too. We were very agressive, but 
we had some breakdowns, he re
marked. Hopefully well give up less 
yardage next week.
The Tartans host Case Western Re
serve this Saturday at Tech Field.
The 511, 190 lb. Skinner played 
part-time in 1986 as a freshman, record
ing 14 tackles as an outside linebacker in 
theTartans4-3alignment Hesayshes 
adjusted well to the transition inside. 
Its a lot more active in the middle, and
I have less pass coverage responsibility. 
Im stronger defencing the run, Skinner 
remarked.
Recruited by IUP, Slippery Rock, 
Gettysburg and the Gators, Skinner was 
an honorable mention all-Pennsylvania 
pick his senior year at undefeated Wil
liamsport HS. The soon-to-be informa
tion systems major chose Carnegie Mel
lon for academics, its urban location, 
and the Tartans strong football pro
gram.
Panther Hollow Inn has replaced 
Skoal as the player of the game sponsor 
this season. .
PHI is located just over the Forbes 
Avenue Bridge.
Panther Hollow Inn Player of the Game
photo by Andy Gillespie
David Skinner (2nd from left) started his first game in grand style, being named PHI 
Player of the Game.
photo by Ian Hall
Junior forward Aimee F^eber shoots while sophomore center Tricia Chorgo fights for 
a rebound against the Lady Terriers of Hiram in Skibo Gym. The Lady Tartans 
increased their winning streak to five games, putting them in second place in the 
Pennsylvania Athletic Conference.

---------------------------------------------------

P Page 22  The Tartan  Spring 1988
----rr%wm.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Senior Wide Receiver Joe Mancuso 
sings the National Anthem at last 
Tuesday's Pirate game.
TTA A Hphlit
Men Go 2 for 2 in Skibo Gym
Volleyball Wins 7 
Two of Three
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
The final week of the womens volleyball 
season was played in the teams usual fashion, 
up and down. CMU finished its season with ) 
matches against Presidential Athletic Confer
ence (PAC) rivals Hiram and Bethany, and 
non-conference opponent Robert Morris; two 
wins and one loss.
On Thursday, the team travelled to Bethany, 
where it split a pair of matches - a heartbreak
ing loss to Bethany 2-1 (12-15,15-3,6-15) and 
a hard earned victory over Robert Morris 
College 2-1 (14-16, 15-11, 15-9). The first 
match of the evening against Bethany was 
played well by both teams. The hitting was 
hard, the court coverage was excellent, &nd 
defense at the net was solid. However, the 
Lady Bisons prevailed. The Lady Tartans 
played some of their best offensex>f the season, 
recording 29 kills and only 9 hitting errors. 
Offensive team leaders of the match were 
sophomore Kristine Loh with 7 kills and fresh- ) 
man Nicole Hanak with 6. Carnegie Mellon 
also tallied 8 serving aces, as well as 6 serving 
and 11 receiving errors.
The teams match against Robert Morris 
lasted almost an hour and a half. Because both 
teams were playing so well, neither team was 
able to take advantage of being in possession 
of the serve. Service kept passing from side to 
side, but a disciplined Carnegie Mellon squad 
would not quit. After losing the first game to 
a taller Robert Morris team, the Lady Tartans 
regrouped and won the next two doing what 
they do best - playing basic volleyball. Being 
their last collegiate game, it was only fitting 
that seniors Monica Zalevsky and Marianne 
Smith lead the offense, combining for 22 of 
Carnegie Mellons 43 kills, 14 and 8 respec
tively. Hanak also had 8 kills in the match.
The team committed 15 hitting errors.
Earlier in the week, the Lady Tartans picked 
up a win by trouncing Hiram 3-0 (15-5,15-8, 
15-7). The team communicated well, covered 
the court effectively, and made the most of the 
Lady Terriers miscues. Offensively, leader
ship was provided by Zalevsky and sopho
more Laurie Shumaker, both picking up 7 kills 
for the match. As a whole, the team recorded
31 kills and 11 hitting errors.
The team ends its season with a PAC record 
of 7-5,17-17 overall, and high hopes for next 
year.photo by Kelly Albert
in Skibo Gym.
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon mens basketball 
team opened its 1987-88 season at home, 
hosting a tournament with a large share of 
attention placed on the team.
Attention was paid to the first appearances 
by University Athletic Association rivals 
Brandeis and Emory at Skibo Gym.
Attention was paid to senior captain Hart 
Coleman. The 67" center from Pittsburghs 
Brashear High was expected to carry the bur
den left by graduates Pete Cwalina and David 
Bart from last years 11-12 squad.
Attention was even paid to the two trips to 
Florida the Athletic Department was giving 
away instead of diskettes (which a company 
did provide as a promotion).
Attention was not initially paid to forward 
Darryl Long. The 63" Columbus, Ohio native 
let loose with the best weekend of his career, 
before one of the largest Skibo Gym crowds in 
recent history. The junior compiled 54 points, 
13 rebounds, and five steals over two games to 
earn tournament MVP honors. His numbers 
paced the Tartans to 80-69 and 87-80 victories 
over Emory and Brandeis respectively.
Tartan Head Coach Larry Anderson had 
nothing but compliments after Longs open
ing night performance. The fifth-year coach 
proclaimed, In the press conference [last 
Wednesdays Presidents Athletic Confer
ence media luncheon] I said Darryl Long may 
be our best athlete. He proved it tonight. He 
was the best player on the court.
In the opening round of the tournament, the 
two teams were well matched. Emorys pro
gram is only in its second year of play, but the 
young squad had brought people who could 
play.
Emorys Eagles were led by sophomore 
sensation Tim Garrett In his freshman year, 
the forward from Rome, Ga. was named to the 
All-South squad. In fact, Garrett could have 
been a much more familiar player to many 
fans; he turned down an offer to play at Penn 
State in order to be closer to home.
While Garrett was good, Long was better. 
Carnegie Mellons man sank nine of ten from 
the floor in the first half, leading all scorers 
with 18 points.
Not only was Long on, but the entire Tartan 
team was involved in the game. Carnegie 
Mellon had problems last season defending 
against the three point shot, but they had no 
such worries against Emory. In the first half 
the Eagles were three of 15 from 199" or 
more, and they finished the game slightly 
better at four of 19.
Furthermore, the Tartans discovered that 
they could have an outside game as well. Last 
years edition of the mens team only sank 28 
three point shots ail season, 23 coming from 
the now-graduated Roger DeVries. Senior 
center David Smith doubled his 1986-87 out
put with two bombs in the first half, and 
returning guard Michael Stewart added two 
more to the Tartan effort.
Things got even better in the second half. 
Long added 13 more points to gamer a careerhigh 31 points, more than any Tartan has 
scored in three years. Junior forward David 
Sikora noticed the large turnout. I think the 
crowd helped us, he remarked.
Also ending the game in double figures 
were Longs two partners in the front court. 
Junior forward Daren Moffatt added 12 points 
while Coleman, one of two Tartans besides 
Long to make the All-Tournament team, con
tributed 14 points to the Carnegie Mellon 
effort.
The Tartans faced the Brandeis Judges in 
the finals. Brandeis arrived in that game by
Hart Coleman tries to muscle in a shot past W&J's Tom Mileski
outlasting the Case Western Reserve Spartans 
81 -80 the nightbefore. The Judges were led by
5  10" senior Stanley House. The senior guard 
went to Cambridge Rindge and Latin, the 
same high school as Patrick Ewing, and dis
played the same tenacity on the court. He led 
all scorers in the Judge-Spartan opener, net
ting 24 points, including the winning basket on 
a layup with 10 seconds left in regulation.
Unfortunately for Brandeis, House would 
be the only effective Judge against the Tartans. 
Two Brandeis players, forward Derek Oliver 
and sixth-man Matt Swedberg each had four 
fouls before the first half was over.
The Judges foul trouble forced their head 
coach, Kevin OBrien to go to his bench liber
ally, seemingly bringing in new players with 
each steppage of play. Down the sideline, his 
counterpart, Coach Anderson stayed with his 
first seven. Anderson felt that it was necessary 
to give his returning players a chance to get
readjusted to each other. I think these two 
games were crucial for the experienced play
ers, claimed Anderson, I thought these 
seven guys were playing pretty well. Im sure 
well get some other guys into the game more, 
were going to have to.
Sikora came off the bench to give the Tar
tans 19 points, shooting seven of eight from 
the floor. In addition, the junior from Weirton, 
West Va. grabbed 10 rebounds, including 
eight off the defensive boards. Sikora joined 
Long and Coleman on the tournaments allstar team.
The game started out with Carnegie Mellon 
doing no wrong. With less than eight minutes 
gone, the Tartans pushed out to a 24-6 lead. 
Carnegie Mellon played an aggressive style of 
basketball not seen in Skibo Gym in recent 
years, building a commanding lead. Brandeis 
was ice cold from the floor in the first half, 
converting on only 11 of 31 shoots from the 
floor.
Carnegie Mellon pushed the lead even fur
ther to 20 points with 5:49 left before the 
Judges tried to make a game of it. Brandeis 
tightened up on defense, the Tartans could 
only muster six points in the final six minutes 
of the frst half, and the J udges c losed to within 
twelve, 46-34 at the half.
Aggressiveness turned to anxiousness in
the second half as Brandeis threatened to turn 
the rout back into a game. Led by the penetra
tion of House and Rob Toomeys outside 
shooting (five of eight from three point range), 
Brandeis steadily closed the gap, pulling as 
close as five points midway through the sec
ond half.
However, the Judges just did not have the 
stamina; they tried to match 22 three-point 
attempts with 35 Tartan shots from the charity 
stripe and couldnt compete.
Four Tartans hit double figures in the sec
ond game: Long led all with 24, followed by 
Coleman at 20, Sikora with 19, and Michael 
Stewart who chipped in 10.
Carnegie Mellon has two more hone 
games this fall. One is tonight against Get
tysburg College, and the other will be next 
Monday against Anderson  s alma mater, Point 
Park College.
In the past few years, the Tartans have come
out of their tournament with a win only to 
slump immediately after. To avoid the same 
fate, Coach Anderson feels his team will have 
to play a strong game. I think we have to 
continue to play hard, we have to continue to 
play aggressively.
The Tartans next major test will be De
cember 4th when they take to the road for the 
first time this season, travelling to Greenwich 
Village to take on the New York University 
Violets. The Violets are a top twenty con
tender and figure to be near the top of the UAA 
at the end of the season.
Dribbles: Besides Long, Coleman, and 
Sikora, Emorys Tim Garrett, Case Western 
Reserves Tony Jones, and Brandeiss Stanley 
House were named to the AllToumament...TheTartans have now won their 
tipoff tournament the past three years...Emory 
only brought a mens team to the tournament 
because they only have a mens team, the 
school has neither a womens basketball nor a 
football team...Hart Coleman now only needs 
111 points to reach the 1000 point 
plateau...Coverage of the NYU-Camegie 
Mellon game will be provided on radio by 
WNYU and WRCT and the game will be 
televised by Madison Square Garden cable in 
the New York...The UAA is featured in Sports 
Illustrateds basketball preview issue.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is Carnegie Mellons weekly newspaper conceived, 
written, produced, inspired, desired, conspired and edited 
entirely by students.
All interested students are encouraged to join The Tartan staff 
in such important positions as writers, artists, photographers, 
production staff-members, managers and editors.
Tartan staffers gain experience in journalism and help keep the 
campus informed about university-related events.
Stop by our office as soon as the semester starts! Its located on 
the lower level of Skibo, Room 50. Or call us at (412) 268-2111.
Subscription offer
The Tartan covers all aspects of Carnegie Mellons campus, and will keep you in touch with student life, administration policies, school sports, the Pittsburgh scene, and much, much more.
To stay up-to-date with the college enivironment, subscribe to The Tartan. Subscription rates are $15 for one semester, or just $25 for the entire academic year. You will receive a new issue every week.
If you would like to subscribe, fill out this form and return it to: The Tartan
Box 17Carnegie Mellon University Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Name:
Address:D 1 Semester ($15)
City:______________________ State:________ Zip:___________ D 2 Semesters ($25)
Q Payment enclosed: $___
(Check payable to: The Tartan)
D Please bill me

---------------------------------------------------

s
The Tartan
PORTS
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL---------------------------------------------......--------------
Tartan Scoreboard: Varsity Team Standings
Football: 7-3,4-2 PAC (3rd), 2-0 UAA 
Soccer: 7-6-2,2-5 PAC (4th), 3-3-0 UAA (4th)
Mens Cross Country: 9-0 PAC (1st), UAA (3rd), NCAA Nationals (9th) 
Womens Cross Country: 9-1 PAC (1st), UAA (6th)
Volleyball: 17-17,7-5 PAC (3rd), UAA (3rd)
Field Hockey: 5-6-1,4-2 PAC (2nd) 0-2 UAA (3rd)
Mens Basketball: 9-12,7-5,PAC (4th) 2-3 UAA (6th)
Womens Basketball: 11-12,6-6 PAC (4th), 3-2 UAA (3rd)
Mens Swimming: 7-0 PAC (1st) UAA (5th)
Womens Swimming: 6-0 PAC (2nd) UAA (8th)
Tr cavvUGbnud HnbxuM Cevgd
Coach Meckley Wins 200th Dual Meet
By RICH SHIPLEY 
Tartan Staffwriter
It was a close but sweet victory in two 
ways for the mens cross country team Sat
urday in Schenely Park. The Tartans man
aged to outrun the Robert Morris, 24-35.
The Colonials have caused much contro
versy in recent weeks with reports of their 
runners cutting the courses short, thus being 
disqualified from several meets. Tartan 
Head Coach, Gary Meckley, was prepared 
to see that the race was on the up-and-up. To 
ensure a fair race, Meckley had spotters at 
key intersections and turn-arounds through
out the course.
The victory also had special significance 
for Meckley. Not only was it his 89th con
secutive dual meet victory, it was his 200th
as a coach at Carnegie Mellon.
The Colonials threatend the Tartans with 
their top runner, Aling, taking first place 
with the time of 25:53. Fortunately for 
CMU, they did not have the depth of strong 
runners that the Tartans had. Keith Stopen, 
Pat Noll, and Paul Camine took the next 
three places for the Tartans. Gary Meiker 
and Kevin Helm came in seventh and eighth 
to seal the victory.
Pat Noll and Paul Camine both had impressesive finishes to their races. At the two 
mile marker Noll and Camine were fifth and 
sixth respectively; at the races end they fin
ished third and fourth. In doing this, they 
knocked a Robert Morris runner from third 
to fifth place; this was a key factor in the 
Tartan's victory.
The mei
COI
Tartans Maul Bears for Final Win on Tech Field
A Greg Timmons hat trick led the Ice Tartans to a 3-1 victory over the Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania (IUP) Apaches Thursday at Belmont Ice Arena.
Introducing the UAA
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor 
On May 24th, it was announced that Bran
deis University in Waltham, Mass. had joined 
the University Athletic Association (UAA) as 
its ninth member.
In the announcement, Carnegie Mellons 
President Richard Cyert proclaimed, The 
UAA provides the opportunity for national 
competition among student-athletes from 
major private research universities with simi
lar academic and athletic policies and stan
dards. Having another institution which meets 
these criteria strengthens the Association and 
enriches the extra-curricular experience 
which we offer to our students.
The University Athletic Association was 
formed in June 1986 as a confederation of 
eight major Eastern research universities who
compete in varsity sports at the Division III 
level. The founding institutions including 
Carnegie Mellon were: Case Western Re
serve, Cleveland; the University of Chicago, 
Emory University, Atlanta; Johns Hopkins 
University, Baltimore; New York University, 
the University of Rochester and Washington 
University in St. Louis.
During this 1987-1988 introductory sea
son, round-robin competition is scheduled for 
football, mens and womens soccer, and 
mens and womens basketball. For the other 
16 varsity sports encompassed by the league, 
conference championship tournaments have 
been scheduled at the various member 
schools. Originally, the mens tennis tourna
ment was to be held at Carnegie Mellon, but 
that tourney was awarded to Brandeis when 
they joined the UAA.
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
The curtain fell for the final time at Tech 
Field on Saturday. Carnegie Mellon (7-2-1,4-
2 PAC, 2-0 UAA) closed out the season with 
their second blowout in as many weeks. They 
trounced University Athletic Association rival 
Washington University in St. Louis, 35-8.
The Bears came into Tech Field looking to 
end their season the same way as they began, 
with a win against a UAA opponent. After an 
opening game win against the University of 
Chicago Maroons, Washington dropped its 
next seven games.
The Tartans were trying merely to allow their 
seniors to finish with a win. Their 6-2-1 record 
would have attracted bowl scouts if Carnegie 
Mellon was a Division I school. Instead, this 
would be the final game of the Tartans  season.
The Tartans showed they would win with 
their opening drive. Washingtons initial 
drive stalled at the 50. Following Eric Nyhus s 
poor 15 yard kick, the Carnegie Mellon of
fense got to work.
Senior captain Mike Hensel led the way, 
playing in the form that had earned him preseason All-American honors both last and this 
year. On the Tartans first drive, the quarter
back from Mars, Pa. ran four times to lead 
Carnegie Mellon down the field. His five yard 
trip into the end zone gave the Tartans a 7-0 
lead. Hensel ended the game with 78 yards and 
two touchdowns on the ground while complet
ing 9 of 14 passes for 137 yards and 1 touch
down.
Washington hoped to answer back with their 
main weapon, senior tailback Tom Polacek. 
For Polacek it was a homecoming of sorts, the 
senior lettered at DuBois Area High School. 
Polacek would ramble for 141 yards on 22 
carries before the day was done. Polacek 
became the second person in three weeks to 
break the 1000 yard mark at Tech Field. Ear
lier, Washington & Jeffersons A.J. Pagano 
rushed for 166 yards to accomplish the same 
feat
Polacek, however, could not do it alone. The 
Bear offense consisted of a Polacek mn or no 
yardage. Washington could do no better in its 
second possession, handing the ball back to 
Carnegie Mellon in less than a minute.
The Tartans continued on the ground, steamrolling their way down the field with eight 
consecutive mns. The offensive line put in 
another stellar performance. Theyre a spec
tacular offense line, and theyre going to get
nothing but better, was the description Tartan 
Head Coach Rich Lackner used.
In fact, between Hensel, Chris Claflin, and 
Laszlo Buda, CMU put the ball in the air only 
20 of its 78 plays.
However, in that drive, Hensel did turn to the 
skies. He found sophomore tight end Mike 
Beresford twice, the second toss put Carnegie 
Mellon ahead 14-0, and that would be all of the 
points the Tartans would need.
None could say that Polacek wouldnt try to 
bring the Bears back into the game. He found 
a hole in the left side of Carnegie Mellons 
defense, and carried the ball 43 yards down to 
the Tartan 13 before senior defensive back 
Robert DiGioia could bring him down. 
However, once Polacek gave up the ball, 
Washington floundered. Two mns and a pass 
netted two yards, and freshman kicker Jeff 
Chrusciel missed the 29 yard field goal, with 
eight and a half minutes left in the first half, the 
football game was already over.
Carnegie Mellon added one more score be
fore the half ended. Chris Haupt recovered a 
William Heard fumble on the Bear 33. Nine 
plays later, junior fullback Chris Hansen 
punched the ball into the end zone. Jim Kelly  s 
kick upped the score to 21-0.
The halftime stats showed the Tartans com
plete domination, no punts, no fumbles, and no 
penalties.
However, as the second half started, it looked
like Carnegie Mellon was trying to find a way 
to let Washington back into the game. After 
Gale King fielded an onside kick, the Tartans 
were tagged for penalties on their first two 
plays, pushing them back to first and 31 on 
their own 45.
It took Carnegie Mellon four plays to make 
back those yards, but they did. They then went 
on to take a 28-0 lead with Hensels second 
touchdown mn of the day.
However, the mauling of the Bears contin
ued. Lackner stayed with his seniors far longer 
than he needed to in their final game. He 
admitted, We tried to keep the seniors in. 
One of them, PHI Player of the Game Billy 
Heiser dove into the end zone for the final 
touchdown, early in the fourth quarter.
Washington finally got on the board late in 
the game. Junior quarterback Mike Rinne 
found tight end Dave Matthews for a 53 yard 
touchdown toss late in the game to prevent the 
first Tartan shutout since last seasons 14-0 
blanking of Thiel.
Tartan Tidbits: The win left Carnegie 
Mellon with a 76-41-2 record at Tech Field, 
48-7-1 since 1976. The Tartans will meet 
Washington in next seasons opener in St. 
Louis. This wasnt the first time CMU had 
played Washington; the Bears beat theTartans 
in 1970 and 1971. Bryan Roessler was named 
a recipient of a national Football Foundation 
and Hall of Fame Scholar-Athlete Award.
photo by Stewart Levine
tha cross country team runs to yet another win on the Schenley Park home

---------------------------------------------------

Mary Barnes treats insanity with sensitivity
By ERIKA PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor
At the Kresge Theatre on Friday night, David 
Edgars Mary Barnes premiered. The show is 
the story of a schizophrenic nurse, her descent 
into herself, and her emergence as a new, 
whole person. Very well acted, the show is an 
' often shocking, always revealing portrait of a 
controversial therapy for schizophrenics.
Senior CarinaFisher, as Mary Barnes, brings 
vividness and life to Marys haunting illness. 
She succeeds admirably in shifting from 
Mary, the forty year old nurse at the onset of 
the play, to the reborn, emotionally younger 
Mary the artist at the close of the play. Fisher, 
incredibly, is able to sustain the emotional 
? intensity of the character throughout the show, 
first evoking empathy in the audience for her 
helplessness and plight, and then joy for her 
perseverance, determination, and success.
At the onset of the play, as the residents move 
into an East London house, the audience is 
unsure which of the players are therapists, and 
which are patients. The confusion emphasizes 
the fine line between sanity and insanity, and 
i illustrates peoples shifting place on that line.
The players, especially Dennis Rees as 
Eddie, and Serena Berne as Brenda, accu
rately convey the feeling of understanding and 
tolerance which was the underlying philoso
phy of the real Kingsley Hall. According to the 
theories of Joseph Berke (portrayed as Eddie 
in the show), the schizophrenic must be per
mitted to act irrationally until they feel they no 
longer need their insanity to protect them
selves against the outside world, and espeDennis Rees and Carina Fisher in a scene from Mary Barnes
daily their families.
The cast successfully creates the atmosphere 
of a family household, complete with rivalries, 
tenderness, and tension. The actors, especially 
Tom Prior as Douglas Ron McClelland as 
Hugo, Dennis Rees as Eddie, and N. Ellen 
Wolf as Beth, play off one another to effec
tively define each characters role in the 
household community. The group succeeds in 
conveying the fluid quality of the roles while 
making clear enough distinctions to avoid 
confusion.
Technically the show ran smoothly, al
though some of the pauses in the second half, 
which were meant to convey the passing of 
years, did not seem to fulfill their purposes in 
every case. The set, a cutaway of a decrepit 
house, was designed cleverly to include a 
stairway and an upstairs level, where Marys 
room is located. The height of the second 
level, however, did force people in the front 
rows to look up at an uncomfortable angle. 
The costumes, finally, were generally accu
rate to the period, although further,even minor
costume changes in the second half might have 
helped to emphasize the passing of years.
Overall, the production, acting, and script 
provided for an entertaining and thought-provoking evening. The show continues at the 
Kresge Theater February 23-27 at 8 pm, and 
on February 27, at 2 pm. Tickets are available 
through the CMU Box Office, located in the 
main lobby of CFA, open Monday through 
Friday, noon to 5 pm. Call 268-2407 for ticket 
information.
Cat and the Connells: Best show of the year
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Music Critic
Last Monday night (not last Monday, but last 
last Monday, as in last week), the Connells and 
Scruffy the Cat played Graffiti. If you missed 
it, then go stand in the comer - Ill deal with 
you later.
Now, those of you who were there know just 
how great a show it was. Just stick with me 
while I enlighten these other people, and 
chime in if I miss anything.
As for those of you in the comer, listen up. 
For a measly six bucks, you could have 
watched the Connells and Scmffy the Cat, but 
especially the Connells, in one of the best 
shows the Graffiti, or even Pittsburgh, has had 
the good fortune to host. (I told you it was 
going to be good, didnt I? You should listen to 
people more.) You also could have helped to 
encourage more under 21 shows in the area, 
which is a very noble thing, but thats not as 
important as the fact that it was a good, great, 
really awesome show that was undoubtedly 
more worthwhile than anything you were 
doing at the time. Really.
While the Connells music is particularly 
notable for its use of harmony, along with a 
blend of Irish and Southern pop influences, 
shown on their latest album Boylan Heights, 
their live show displays an aggressive nature 
of the band that is only hinted at on their album. 
The band puts an even greater amount of 
energy into their songs in concert, and as a 
result, the separate parts of each song develop 
a more aggressive nature. The guitars ex
change a bit of jangle and shine for some fuzz 
and roar, the drumming rises from a mere 
rhythmical role to one of gr&ter prominence, 
and the vocals, still flowing over and through 
each other, lose a bit of their smooth warmth in
exchange for a bit more fury. Even the key
boards that were so unobtrusively effective on 
the album are able to sit right out in front of the 
song without being distracting. It all adds up to 
a show that is totally spellbinding; one that 
leaves the spectator giddy for days afterwards, 
unable to describe the show in any other words 
than great and amazing.
What? Im getting too serious? Oh. Sorry 
about that.
The band started both shows with OT2, an 
instrumental and a nifty touch that more bands 
would do well to emulate. (Peele Wimberley, 
the lead singer, starts the concert in the audi
ence, climbing onstage at the end of the song. 
Its a bit of a shock to see what you assume is 
just some drunk gyrating in front of the stage 
climb up and start singing.)
The rest of both sets included songs from the 
bands two albums (Boylan Heights as well as 
Darker Days, their first) as well as a few 
covers - George Harrisons Photograph for 
the under 21 show, Rod Stewarts You Wear 
It Well, Bon Jovis Wanted Dead or Alive 
(yes, really), and Alice Coopers Eighteen, 
for the old folks  that fit surprisingly well 
into the bands own material, as well as pro
viding a fantastic ending to a fabulous concert. 
Tmly amazing stuff, and all you people in the 
comer should be completely ashamed of your
selves.
Scmffy The Cat had the unenviable task of 
following the Connells for both shows, but 
they held up well, providing a huge, cheery 
dose of their punk-crossed rockabilly. In short, 
Scmffy is the quintessential bar band  any
one can appreciate the energy and quality of 
their music regardless of their sobriety. 
Charlie Chesterman, the band's lead singer 
and frontman, did a great job entertaining the
crowd, proving unflappable despite various 
technical difficulties, including a recalcitrant 
guitar.
The band has the ability to become instantly 
at home on any stage, and, by doing so, to make 
the audience feel at home. This instant cama
raderie might be the reason Scmffy The Cat 
has such a good reputation for their live shows,
but such a poor showing on vinyl. The music 
is good  hell, its great! but the friendli
ness doesnt record well. (Their new half-live 
EP may remedy this problem.) Regardless, 
they put on a tight rocking set that provided a 
great close to an already great show.
It was great. You guys in the comer really 
missed something special this time.
Its The Swing
George Gee and The Make-Be
lieve Ballroom Orchestra swung, 
sung and played far into the night in 
the Skibo Ballroom Friday. The 
CMU alumnus and his big bold 
band held sway over a happy, danc
ing crowd of revelers.
The concert/dance was sponsored 
by AB. It is rumored that the atten
dance for the show was larger than 
it had been for any AB dance ever.
The energetic Gee bounced and 
bopped his way through the show, 
exhorting the dancers and listeners 
at every opportunity. It dont 
mean a thing if it aint got that 
swing, Gees motto, was rattled 
off so many times that by 1 am or so, 
at the end of the final set, the audi
ence was saying it with him.
Gee proclaimed a desire to return 
and play Spring Carnival this year. 
Until then, the strains of Satin 
Doll will echo faintly in Skibo, as 
the dust motes play at imitating the 
spinning lights and heady air of our 
very own Make-Believe Ballroom.George Gee dances the night away.
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDE!
MOVIES.....................Page D3
20th International Tournee of Anima
tion a tour de force.
COMICS.....................Page D4
Ink Spots & Overload (sorry, Freddy 
Flashback and Max is on vacation.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2  The Tartan  Spring 1988
JanuaryAB Square Dance, Skibo, 9pm
The Carribean Beach Dance 
featuring
. Qu, and At* 
t/iaAt.__
awHK
OvJudbuLREGGAE
(as seen at last year's 
Spring Carnival) 
live palm trees, beach
Jessye Norman sings with Pittsburgh Symphony
By LORI MAURER
Tartan Music Critic
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, under 
the direction of Charles Dutoit, guest conduc
tor from the Montreal Symphony Orchestra, 
presented a program this weekend which in
cluded Schuberts Symphony No. 3 in D 
Major, Strauss Four Last Songs and 
Rachmaninovs Symphonic Dances. Jessye 
Norman, in her Pittsburgh Symphony sub
scription concert debut, was the featured solo
ist.
Opening with Schuberts Symphony No. 3 
in D Major, Dutoit and the orchestra were ob
viously very comfortable with each other and 
the piece, yet still gave it a fresh interpretation. 
The first movement, Adagio maestoso, was 
particularly strong as the melody alternated 
between the strings and the woodwinds with 
almost undetectable transitions.
Allegretto, the second movement of 
Schuberts work, also was enhanced by re
markable work in the woodwinds, particularly 
in the clarinet solo which was reminiscent of a 
yodelling tune, probably influenced by 
Schuberts love of the Austrian Alps.
Menuetto: Vivace, the third movement, pri
marily consisted of a dolce between the oboe 
and bassoon with a light string accompani
ment. The Orchestra effectively brought 
across the peasant dance theme of this move
ment but many of the solo oboe entrances were 
awkward and delayed.
The Symphony compensated for the awk
wardness of the third movement with an in
vigorating performance of Presto vivace, the 
last movement. Dutoit and the Symphony 
emphasized the contrast between the Austrian 
, peasant dance theme of the third movement 
with the Presto, an imitation of the Italian 
musical forms dominant in Vienna in the early 
I nineteenth century.
The next selection in the Symphonys pro
gram was Strauss Four Last Songs, which 
featured an electrifying and expressive per
formance by Jessye Norman, guest Soprano. 
These four songs, considered to be the most 
intimate music that Strauss ever wrote, were 
indicative of the cycles of life. The four songs, 
entitled Friihling (Spring), September, Beim 
Schlafengehen (Going to Sleep) and Im Abendrot (In the Glow of the Evening), represented 
Strauss farewell in his final work with their 
traditional form and nostalgic lyricism.
The Symphony and Norman united to give 
an amazingly ardent performance of these 
songs. Norman exuded a commanding stage 
presence from the moment that she appeared 
in front of the audience. Her performance in
the first movement, Friihling (Spring), was 
almost hypnotic in its beauty and the emo
tional intensity. Throughout all four songs, 
Norman was immersed in her performance 
even when she was not singing. She could 
vacillate between a powerful forte and a quiet 
dimuendo with ease. Dutoit and the. orchestra
continued on page D4 
Honks, drums, and bagpipes: Reviews of new music
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Music Critic 
A Good Night Out 
Test Department
While Test Department has retained their 
clanging heritage as one of the best industrial 
bands in the world, their sound has matured 
into something new. At the same time, theyre 
showing a stronger political stance than Ive 
noticed on their earlier albums, possibly due to 
the fact that they do more speaking on this 
album due to its live nature (Did I say it was 
live? Its live, recorded at a few of Test 
Departments concerts, which are supposedly 
amazing spectacles of music/noise/bombast.) 
The first song/presentation is basically a spo
ken piece from Jonathan Moores play Be
hind Heaven over some loud drum thumps 
and other stuff, and the rest of the first side 
continues in the same theme. However, the 
second side starts off with bagpipes, trumpets 
and drums playing a vaguely martial tune that 
sounds really familiar. It has a strangely 
threatening air to it, which shows up most 
obviously in the resounding boom of the 
drums. Its edited out on most of the next song, 
a reel called Cha Till Sinn Tuille, which trans
lates as We Shall Return No More. The 
drums come crashing back towards the end of 
the song, and the band returns to form for the 
rest of the album.
This review may sound unkindly flip, but
the album isnt deserving of ridicule. In fact, 
its some of the most intelligent music avail
able, kind of like classical music for the politi
cally aware. The band takes the social force of 
classical, its ability to storm without losing 
control of the musical image, and combines it 
with the social outrage of punk without self
parody. As a result, Test Department is able to 
deliver its Socialist message of human rights 
with a calm impact This is an album that 
everyone should hear.
Tore Up
Tail Gators 
After an overly long vacation, the Tail Ga
tors have finally released another slab of their 
own patented version of rockabilly swamp 
rock. They keep the basic rockabilly flavor, 
but they add
and just-slightly-grungy guitar, along with a 
healthy dose of Cajun rhythms and harmonies, 
that make the music the best thing since swing 
when it comes to dancing. Particularly worthy 
of note are songs like The Ballad of Stagger 
and Lily, a traditional song that is lovingly 
updated according to the Gators Cajun stomp, 
and Jungle Rock, which has a whomp-beat that 
will make the most sedentary soul bounce. 
Play it for all your friends or at parties - this is 
an instantly popular album. Unfortunately, 
due 4o the severe limitations that major radio 
stations in the area are placing upon them
selves, the Tail Gators will have a hard time 
getting noticed. So, do something new and 
original - risk the five bucks and buy the 
album. (Actually, itll cost six or seven at 
Eides or Jims Records, but, if you dont like
Were not kidding. These guys really do play bagpipes.
Add a little variety to your 
next t)re weekends'
SundayMondayTuesdayWednesdayThursdaySaturday
Carribean Beach Dance 
- Skibo 9 pm 
The
Flow 13
AB Dance
funded by your activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Spring 1988  The Tartan  Page D3
Animation has changed - for the better
By MICHAEL ROSE
Tartan Diversions Editor 
What we think of when we hear the word 
animation is probably a theatre crowded 
with children, eagerly awaiting the exploits of 
Mickey Mouse in vibrant Technicolor, or 
perhaps afternoon syndications stars, HeMan and G.I.-Joe. Well, these stereotypes fall 
far short of the quality of material presented in 
Tha tSfh w%fab%gfnE%gi TElb%aa of F%n.gfnE%B 
presented tonight and tomorrow at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse, and coming to DH 2210 on 
campus on March 6.
tion.
Included in the film:
Luxo, Jr., a 1986 Oscar nominee, produced 
by Pixar (formerly a division of Lucasfilm) 
and John Lasseter, a former Disney animator. 
This two minute computer-animated short 
broke new ground in the field when it was 
released two years ago. The enchanting story 
of a desk lamp and his playful offspring is one 
of the most complicated sequences ever pro
duced by computer and certainly among the 
most realistic. Also from Pixar in the TElb%aa 
is the endearing short Reds Dream, about the
Its interesting, fun, exciting and off
beat, with moments of pure hysteria and 
adorable characters to boot...
The TElb%aa is in fact a tour de force, a 
collection of award-winning films from many 
nations. Featured animation techniques range 
from the inked-cel animation familiar to Walt 
Disney fans through claymation, pixilation, 
stop-motion photography, up to the cutting 
edge of computer graphics. The 1986 Acad
emy Award winner is here, as are several other 
of the nominees from 86 and 87. There is a 
long (10 min.) piece from the Soviet Union, 
Break!, that uses remarkably simple clayma
tion to hilariously explore the parallels be
tween international detente and a boxing 
match, and gives us the second best quote of 
the show; Hasta Manana - Fight!  There is a 
cartoon written, produced and narrated by 
George Carlin that looks askance at the world 
in a newsreel format, also providing the third 
best quote of the TElb%aa: Animation... You 
used to go to a movie and see a cartoon. Now 
you attend a film and see some animation]' 
Carlin is quite fight There are 19 pieces in all, 
not including the previews for the Computer 
Animation Show and the Claymation Festival, 
and without exception they are superb. Re
gardless of the style, country of origin, or level 
of technology, all these pieces have a certain 
level of professionalism that sets them apart 
The TElb%aa makes for excellent watching for 
anybody even vaguely interested in animaNormans work was electrifying
continued from page D2
enhanced her performance with their effective 
expression of dynamics and the melancholy 
nature of Strauss last work. In the last song, 
Im Abendrot (In the Glow of the Evening), 
Norman ended her performance with a flaw
less dimuendo, in which her solo ended and 
Strauss expressed the fading away of life. 
Normans performance brought her an enthu
siastic standing ovation from the audience.
Jessye Normans electrifying performance 
was a delight but certainly not a surprise from 
a soprano with a background like hers. Edu
cated at Howard University, the Peabody 
School of Music, and at Michigan University, 
Norman began her career in her operatic debut 
in 1969 as Elisabeth in Tannhauser. She 
continues to command impressive roles in 
opera companies throughout the world. This 
year, Norman will return to the Metropolitan 
Opera in Ariadne auf Naxos and will engage 
in a lengthy and extensive worldwide recital 
tour.
The program concluded wit 
Rachmaninov's Symphonic Dances. This 
piece was originally intended to be titled 
Mid-day, Twilight and Midnight and to be 
choreographed as a ballet. Like Strauss Four 
Last Songs, Rachmaninovs Symphonic 
Dances was the last piece that he composed in 
his lifetime and was a representation ol the 
cycles of life: childhood, maturity and old age. 
Rachmaninov decided against using a ballet to 
represent the meaning of his music, letting it
Disney computer animation studio known as 
The (Late) Night Group. They have a style of 
animation that lends itself enormously to the 
characters, a sort of junkyard Lady and the 
Tramp. Lots of fun, and an interesting twist on 
David and Goliath to boot 
Finally, Snookles, a piece from Juliet Stroud 
that closes the film on a note of utter hilarity in 
the vein of some of the more eccentric humor 
of the other films. Telling anything about this 
would completely spoil the fun, but I can give 
you the best quote of the entire show, which is
Hello... Im a baby dragon.
Dont miss Tha tSfh w%fi TElb%aa of 
F%n.gfnE% Its interesting, fun, exciting 
offbeat with moments of pure hysteria 
adorable characters to boot. Again, the 
TElb%aa plays tonight and tomorrow at the 
Playhouse, 200 Craft Ave., at 7:30 and 9:3( 
pm, and is coming to Doherty Hall room 221( 
in March. Its probably worth the time 
money to go see it at the Playhouse just for the 
better sound and more comfortable seats.
Call 621-4445 for ticket information.Under attack by a Comedy Commando: comedian David Naster plays Wherrett Rooml
show business dreams of a young unicycle. 
Pixar has become well known for its animated 
non-living objects that seem to acquire not 
only mobility, but personality as well.
Baeus, a new film by Bruno Bozzeto, director 
of Allegro non Troppo. Bozzeto subtly warps 
the traditional boy meets girl story line, for in 
this case the boy is a tiny blue bug. Video game 
aficionados take note - the music for this film 
bears more than a passing resemblance to the 
sounds from the game Dig Dug. When asked 
why so many of his cartoons involve insects, 
Bozzeto replies, Theyre easy to draw.
Your Face andAugusta Feeds Her Child, two 
cartoons that have nothing in common save 
that they both clearly demonstrate the odd 
sense of humor that pervades animation. 
These pieces may make you a little uncomfort
able, but they will most certainly make you 
laugh.
Academy Leader Variations is one of my 
personal favorites. Remember the countdown 
that appears at the beginning of movies, 
8...7...6...5... etcetera with the circles? Its 
called an Academy leader and its on almost all 
films as an aid to the projectionist. Well, 
imagine what would happen if the leader were 
animated somewhat differently? This piece is 
so inventive its almost scary.
OILSPOT AND LIPSTICK is a piece from the
stand out on its own.
Dutoits sensitive conducting and the 
Symphonys outstanding performance made 
this piece the perfect conclusion to the remark
able program. Non allegro, the first move
ment, featured breathtaking woodwind solos 
by the alto saxophone, flute, and oboe. In 
particular, the alto saxophone was mesmeriz
ing in its expression of the distinct and haunt
ing melody of this movement 
The second movement Andante con mo to 
(Tempo di valse), was a waltz melody and the 
Symphonys coordination between the full 
orchestration of this movement was incred
ible. Dutoit was successful in bringing to
gether the strings, woodwinds and brass in an 
effective rendering of this dance-influenced 
movement 
Lento assai - Allegro vivace, the last move
ment, is, on the surface, a radiant piece. 
However, under the main melody of the Or
chestra, there is an eerie undercurrent indica
tive of the movements original name, Mid
night, and Rachmaninovs expression of the 
end of life. Dutoit guided the Orchestra 
through the intricacies of this movement al
though, at times, the chimes in the percussion 
section were overbearing. For the most part, 
however, the inclusion of a number of percus
sion instruments in this last movement was 
remarkable, and enhanced the performance. 
Overall, this movement and Rachmaninovs 
Symphonic Dances were a good choice to 
conclude a remarkable evening of music.
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic
Starved for comedy since Alex Coles show 
last semester, students packed the Wherrett 
Room on Saturday night to see the stand-upand-run-around comedy of David Naster. The 
Coots Comedy Commando only had to 
throw out a few opening lines before he had 
everyone securely roped in.
After determining the desired filth level, he 
launched into a high-energy romp through his 
free-associating mind. Nasters own set mate
rial was cleverly woven with spots for audi
ence interaction that demonstrated his speed 
and wit. Barely would he start up a conversa
tion before a new topic would pop up, sending 
him off on another tangent Even during sto
ries he was ever alert to the slightest opportu
nity to interact At times it was difficult to tell 
whether he was improvising or using stock 
material because it all sounded so polished. 
Naster attributes his supercomedian power 
mode to his recent loss of forty pounds. The 
difference is most obvious when one com
pares the lean, mean, humor machine on stage 
to the slightly paunchy guy on the posters. 
According to Naster, its changed his act, 
freeing him from his strictly prepared material 
and letting him fly. Nasters direct up-front 
approach let people accept him early in the 
show. It takes the barriers out he said. It 
doesnt make it like Shut up and listen, Im 
gonna do a show, cause thats not my style. 
Nasters style is to find out what the audience 
wants and then heap it on. After gaining the 
peoples consent he spoke openly on the 
subjects of sex, religion, and race; subjects that 
he said make some students squirm. Like most 
good comedians, he told the truth. Naster was 
at once devilish, honest, critical, and lovable. 
Though most of his topics were fairly univer
sal to comedians, his approach was often 
unique, refreshing, and sometimes surprising. 
Some of his best lines were asides and com
ments on the real subjects. At one point Naster 
remarked out of nowhere that Parents who 
put their kids on a leash should be slapped. 
After the initial shock laughter, he added, If 
you were a kid and they put a leash on your 
back, would you not turn into a pit bull real 
fast? And then he turned into a pit bull.
The comedy danger zone earned its title again 
when Naster started talking to folks in the front 
rows and on the floor. But instead of just 
razzing people, Naster made them think. He 
made Darryl think more seriously about his 
relationship, and he made Esther think about 
the meaning of wearing a sweatshirt that said
Squeeze across her chest. You dont 
guys wearing shorts that say fondle, Nasi 
noted. He also made everyone in the back row: 
glad they hadnt come up front when he si 
doing his water fountain impressions.
What with student activity space as limited as 
it is, it shouldnt have been surprising that 
Nasters show ran up against a cabaret musical) 
act at Scotland Yard and a WRCT concert in 
the Ballroom. He gleefully adapted to the; 
intrusive elements by commenting on the 
dark gothic music people roaming the halls] 
and by getting everyone in the Wherrett Room 
to imitate the singers next door at the Yard 
S ingers, if we bothered you, Naster apologizes 
but it was all for the sake of comedy. Thank 
you for the extra laughs, and the opportunity 
for Naster to show his audience rapport. 
Naster displayed his own musical talents b 
playing the mike stand and the stool like 
drum set while providing the melodies 
kazoo. He also juggled a beat with bean-fill 
balls and introduced an instrument called 
waterfone, which resembles a trombone mu 
with parallel spikes and is played with a violi 
bow. It makes a noise not unlike many beaci 
whales. Naster claimed to use tapes of w 
fone music to spook hitch-hikers out of his 
Early in the show, Naster identified the Car 
negie Mellon comedy audience as intellectual 
responding well to what they liked and then 
shutting up to wait for the next funny line. Tei 
years of experience have taught him to recog 
nize these important details. At a comedy club 
the response to Nasters act would have beer 
almost continuous laughter.
Nasters current work includes cable amJ 
network performing as well as nightclub dates 
and college shows. Coors Light Beer sponsor.^ 
some of the college dates, promoting Naster as 
one of the ten Coors Comedy Commandos 
Among those college touring acts are the 
three-man group Mary Wong and Taylor 
Mason, all of whom played here last year. 
Though some had opposed the idea of having 
a beer company as a sponsor for college 
shows, Naster feels that Coors intentions are 
harmless. They want people to think of 
comedy, Coors Light, and then have a be-/ 
he explained. Their whole thing is, Dont go 
partying and get slammed. Theyre real care
ful about that.
At the end of the show, Naster tried his best 
to get in a plug for whatever comedians would 
be coming to perform on campus in the future 
Unfortunately, nobody in AB Coffeehouse 
knew who was coming. At least they got the 
semester off to a good start.
I
I
I1.Negativlancf
2. Various Artists
3.Half Japanese
rne egi M loUv
January 2-14,19g8 __-Record =- Labef
Escape From Noise SST 
Ng Agg SST# 
Music To Strip Bv 50 Skadillion Watts 
| 4.Gerry Hemingway Outerbridge Crossing, ^pjind Aspects^W^Ger) 
| 5.World Saxophone Dances and Ballads Nonesuch *******
\
\
,v
WRCT Is the Carnegie Mellon campus radio station, offering an eclectic 
programming mix played by student D/s.

---------------------------------------------------

rneeg ieMloU
7VeYfte WATCHtNO FROM flwe " 
PRIVACY Id HISTORY / 
PCg ANYOOY CAR6 7
mete In rrovIat
HOLD?
By Bob Jenkins
LOOK - TfiERes a RiW 
ONJTHE OV6RHEAD! J
Funded by S.D.C.
InkspotsBy Kurt Shaw
ITS GETTiMG FRIED 
TO DEATH t i
Fiz. o3"SS 71/rr M7T ^ottvS KC-t*n<Wsw<p
trOFL vuk&AJ' "1_CA&
t4otPi'N6-
.mu mutt
u)e ryio A/ofrtitfO.
' SHe suppep osS A ' Piece cf soap* A Mp v P-CUl ItiTO 'me! MGgnh.Ohn. j
>2? I'M AFeAIO 
I Hee MWP IS..
MVoh's boj>y is Ptyr m a //if sarpoKT -tvBe aboard 
Histor swr, TW6 UJAT&FMeiOAj.
iv> 'meusTAsiAfiJs P^epARe Foe THe k trip to Yeslstt>.
(\jSEL\-, IT t)4S BeTTeC THAKi <6eivJo A WX  >-> TeLLBP'^d
So, Hdu3D SoHeoie LIKf 
Xx) 'EECoMe A Ht6H
rttesress ? /"d
*
#
(*

a
#
