J^Nev^papero^ Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84. Number 15, January 31, 1984.
MU Association for Life goes to march
photo by Terece Turton 
^,000 people, including 20 Pittsburgh college students, marched in D.C.
ram ats bothered
hapiro memo receives stinging reactions
AMY MILLER
rtan Staffivriter
A memo written by Mel Shapiro as a 
suit of a rape attempt has drama students
an uproar.
A rape attempt was made on a sophomore 
ma student in Margaret Morrison Camee Hall last November. As a result, Shapiro, 
ad of drama, sent a memo to all drama 
udents. The memo was intended to warn 
ma students of the inherent risk in pracmg alone at night.
I think some of the students misread 
els memo, stated Don Marinelli, assistt head of drama. They thought that 
cause he was saying, Try not to rehearse 
ne, at night, in dark, grungy areas of 
largaret Morrison  or any other campus 
uilding, he was implying that you someow deserved to get raped.
Instructor Dennis Manuel agreed. Mel 
ould certainly never say anything like that, 
was a gross misconception. It was only an 
|Kort on his part to make students aware." 
''hapiro did not comment, 
rhe drama students felt differently. In
their reply to Shapiros memo, the drama 
students wrote a letter stating, It is impossi
ble not to rehearse in nooks and crannies 
because there are only three rehearsal spaces. 
It is [also] impossible not to rehearse after 
11:00 p.m. because we have crew until 11 
p.m. or later.
One student summed up the drama stu
dents letter, saying I think Mel Shapiro 
lacks a general understanding of what his 
department requires of students.
In reference to the victim, one student felt 
she would have gotten over the incident 
sooner if Mr. Shapiro had shown some sort 
of understanding and encouragement.
Both students preferred to remain ano
nymous, in fear of negative response from 
the drama department.
According to Marinelli, because the 
drama department is short on space, stu
dents use any space available to rehearse. 
The open campus system allows people 
(including criminals) to come and go as they 
please. Monitors in each building help to a 
certain extent, but they cannot find out the
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
WASHINGTON, D.C.Pro-life suppor
ters gathered here last Monday to rally 
against opposing forces of government and 
civilians in a demonstration pointed toward 
the 1984 presidential elecdon.
The march commemorated the eleventh 
anniversary of the Roe versus Wade 
Supreme Court case. In that January 22, 
1973 case, according to CMtJ Association for 
Life President Terece Turton, a Texan 
woman who had been raped was secured her 
right to privacy, which included her right to 
have an abortion.
There were approximately 75,000 people 
from all over the United States protesting in 
a march that started with a rally at the 
Ellipse and concluded at the U.S. Capitol 
building.
The group included 20 members of the 
Pittsburgh college community, represent
ing Camegie-Mellon, University of Pitts
burgh, and Duquesne University pro-life 
groups.
The march was held on January 23 this 
year because Congress was not in session on 
January' 22. The ninety-eighth session began 
Monday, and a main part of the demonstra
tion was lobbying. Each person was urged 
by pro-life leaders to go and speak to their 
congressman and senators.
There were two main points mentioned 
often at the rally. Speaker of the House Tip 
ONeill and the House rules committee tried 
to pass the Equal Rights Amendment 
through the House under special rules. The 
amendment was not allowed to be revised at 
all. The pro-life supporters were going to 
add what is called the Sensenbrenner 
amendment, originated by Jim Sensen
brenner of Wisconsin. This amendment 
would have abolished the abortion issue 
from the ERA. The ERA did not pass by the 
two-thirds majority vote needed to add it to 
the U.S. Constitution. Chants of No 
ERA! were cried many times during the 
rally.
The other point which was stressed was 
the 1984 presidential election. President 
Ronald Reagan is anti-abortion, but accordfrom drama students
intentions of everyone who goes in.
The campus police department has three 
roving vehicles that watch out for suspi
cious activity. According to Robert Fadzen, 
head of security, if a certain area of campus 
needs attention, a safety and security report 
is filed. If a student sees such an area, he or 
she should make the department aware of it. 
The police try to maintain high visibility by 
installing lights and trimming heavy foilage. However, Fadzen emphasized the fact 
that security awareness among students is 
important. He noted that serious crimes on 
the CMU campus are very rare and can be 
kept that way with community support.
Security is a cooperative effort. If we 
could get people to act as a separate set of 
eyes and ears, we could operate at a higher 
level for the campus community, com
mented Fadzen.
If there were a simple solution, 
affirmed Marinelli, dien the combined 
efforts of our department, campus police, 
and all the other university departments 
would surelv have found the answer.
ing to Turton, this does not mean pro-life. 
Pro-life is for all life; the elderly, handi
capped, poor, all of these are part of the 
cause. With his (Reagans) social security 
cuts and cuts in programs for the handi
capped, he is not pro-life. However, Walter 
Mondale, who seemingly will be Reagans 
opponent come November, is pro-abortion, 
and the pro-life supporters therefore tend to 
side with Reagan. The pro-lifers believe that 
as many as three new Supreme Court justices 
will be chosen during the four years of the 
next administration. If the President is pro
life, he will appoint pro-life people for the 
court. A change of three votes will swing the 
court in pro-life favor, if voting stays 
consistent.
Many politicians, including Senator Jesse 
Helms (R-North Carolina), Senator Henry 
Hyde (R-Ulinois), Sensenbrenner, and 
Representative Chris Smith (R-New Jersey) 
spoke at the rally, which concluded with a 
final prayer by John B. Locke of the Pitts
burgh Archdiocese.
There were many responses to the march. 
CMU student Mark Marlette said, I learned 
a lot. It increased my awareness of the issue. 
A member of a group from St. Charles, Mis
souri, said, I think I should do every thing I 
can to help the cause. Ive seen pictures of 
fetuses in the womb, and as far as Im con
cerned, thats a living, breathing entity. 
The group from St. Charles brought 17 bus 
loads with about 40 people per bus.
Some people came from Los Angeles, 
California, and there was a group of 80 peo
ple from Fenton, Michigan. A woman from 
Fenton said, I believe in the- right to life for 
all people. No one has the right to take a life 
except God.
A 25-year-old man from Warren, Ohio, 
who attended with his 22-year-old wife said, 
This country is getting very lazy about 
abusing itself. It is leading to complete 
immorality. My wife and I have been able to 
control ourselves using simple birth control 
methods.
Ann Board, a nine-year-old from the Penn 
State area, said, Im here to stop abortion. 
A woman from Anderson, Indiana, said, 
I want to be able to tell my children about 
this.
Andrea Murphy, a 15-year-old from Ringwood, New Jersey, said, The more people, 
the more it helps. Girls our age, they are 
getting pregnant a lot, and (movements like 
this) help.
Turton, a sophomore physics major from 
continued on page 3
in this issue
News
UCC is not sinking.............................page 3
ATO lends a hand...............................page 4
Features
Avant-garde architect...........................page 5
Safety hints............................................page 7
Entertainment
American Buffalo at Playhouse ... page 9
Paul Simon releases album................page 9
Sports
Klausing Coach-of-the-Year.........page 1*>
Mens hoops loses 12th straight .. page 15
Editorial
Crime is our responsibility ...... page 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanJanuary 31, 1984
History and Philosophy prepare to split
By JEFF HENDRIX 
Tartan Staffwriter
Separation of History and Philosophy is 
underway. Although it will not happen 
within the next year, Philosophy is gaining 
the support necessary to become an inde
pendent department.
The history' department and administration 
tion have been instrumental in making this 
possible. Dr. Ludwig Schaefer, head of His
tory and Philosophy, stated, It was not a 
case of History keeping down Philosophy, it 
was History try ing to develop Philosophy so 
that it would be strong enough to go off and 
be a department of its own. It has always 
been a goal to have Philosophy on its own. 
Dr. Preston Covey, associate head of His
tory and Philosophy, reiterated, History 
does not object to our becoming 
independent.
Schaefer emphasized the point that The 
only way Philosophy could have grown in 
this university is to have been part of an 
existing and strong unit such as History. 
He pointed out that previously Economics 
and Social Sciences were also under the 
direction of History'. When CMU was Car
negie Institute of Technology (CIT), 
anyone seeking a degree in liberal arts had to 
transfer to another school.
Since then, Economics has moved into 
GSIA, and Social Sciences is now its own 
department. As to why Philosophy remains 
dependent upon History, Schaefer replied, 
Philosophy had never, until recently, been 
big enough to be a department on its own. 
The whole goal to develop a department is 
to have a number of students taking 
advanced courses. Its a circular thing. You 
have to have faculty to offer courses before 
students can take them, but you have to have 
students to take them in order to be able to 
afford the faculty to teach them.
With the introduction of Philosophic 
Methods and Social Values, originated by 
Covey, enrollment has increased substan
tially. Other new courses like Business 
Ethics and Markets and Ethics are expected 
to bring about a further increase in enrol
lment. According to Covey, These new 
courses and others are designed specifically 
to relate to other programs and interests (in 
the University).
He further adds, Our enrollment is about 
the same as everybody elses. Presumably 
there is a lot of potential for growth as we get 
integrated and get a higher profile. There 
are a lot of people who dont know that we 
exist.
The other aspect Schaefer mendoned as
photo by Bob Fishel
By next year the history department will have Baker 240 all to itself.
being critical to the independence of Philo
sophy is faculty. There are six teachers in the 
program: Preston Covey, Ernest Alieva, Les
lie J. Burkholder, David S. Carrier, Jona
than A. Pressler, James E. Scheuermann. 
They are all relatively new, and Covey wants 
a full professor who could enhance the 
research profile of the group and could 
come on more as a new chairman.
A search for a person to fill the position of 
department head was carried out. A possible
reknowned philosopher of science at 
University of Pittsburgh. Covey said, He 
seems to be worth waiting for on the chance 
that at some point in the near future he 
might see fit to come over here. In the mean
time, that issue of finding a new head has 
been tabled, because weve got a candidate 
that we want, and we want to wait for him,' 
According to Schaefer, The University 
has promised funding if the right person (to 
head the department) is found.
through Syracuse Universitys study abroad programs.
Study in one of SU's 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France, Italy, Spain and other locations. Grants 
are available for a semester, a year, or a summer of foreign 
study. Want to learn more? Complete and return this ad to 
Michael Calo, Division of International Programs Abroad, 
119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13210. (315) 423-3471.
Name
AddressCitvStateZip
Program of interest.
THE NATIONAL CENTER 
FOR EDUCATIONAL TESTING!LSAT/GMAT MCAT/SAT
rnr AMYAIMILERm
\J IVLr COURSES
fCOURSES 
OFFERED
r NATIONWIDE
tor the
MARCH 3 LSAT 
MARCH 17GMATincluding
Carnegie-MellonComplete in-class and supplemental materials 
Simulated exam conditions  Limited class size
LSAT 40-hr begin 2/6 IGMAT 40-hr begins 2/21 
COUBSES 32-hr begins 2/18 COURSES 32-hr begins 3/3
For a free brochure and an invitation to a free sample class covering the exams 
and the College or Graduate Schools admission process
call Toll Free 800-222TEST Ask for Ann Cole
or write
The National Center for Educational Testing 
3414 Peachtree Rd NE Suite 526 - 
Atlanta GA 30326
OBJECTIVES
You will play a key rote in determining your career and business objectives.
We are firm believers in participative management. It your objectives are Immediate 
responsibility, high visibility, and the chance to break new ground, you are an Intel person.
NEW COLLEGE GRADUATES
It you are graduating with an MBA in marketing, finance or operations management, 
we invite you to pursue Intel. We offer challenges and advancement based on 
achievement in Texas, Arizona, Oregon, New Mexico, and California.
INTEL
OPEN HOUSEFEBRUARY 8, 1984 
MASTER S AUDITORIUM5:30 PM CAMPUS INTERVIEWSFEBRUARY 9 & 10, 1984
Meet with our recruiters and learn how you can make the Intel formula work for you.
If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume outlining your career goals 
in care of "INTEL COLLEGE RELATIONS" to the location of your choice: 
Arizona: 5000 West Williams Fleid Road, Chandler, AZ 85224;
California: PO Box 3747, Santa Clara. CA 95051;
New Mexico: 4100 Sara Road. Rio Rancho, NM 87124;
Oregon: 5200 N.E Elam Young Parkway, JF1-1-149, Hillsboro, OR 97123;
Texas 12675 Research Blvd.. Austin. TX 78766
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H.
irrtJ
winners by design
I GUARANTEE: Score in the top 25% or 
take the next course FREE.

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1984The TartanPage 3
CMU uses Pitt scanner
By HOLLY BIERTEMPFEL
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU has been buying time on the Uni
versity of Pittsburghs computer system.
Despite being at the top of the computer 
field, Camegie-Mellon lacks the necessary 
equipment that will facilitate the processing 
of grades. That equipment is an optical 
scanner, and CMU has been using the Pitt 
scanner for two years, at the cost erf 18 dol
lars per hour.
According to Richard Rainsberger, Regis
trar, all grades can be processed in approxi
mately an hour and a half using the scanner. 
Final grades for the fall semester were due 
in the registrars office on December 20, and 
were in the mail to students by the following 
day.
Although the scanner has been described 
as quick and efficient, it does pose a few
problems. A great deal of preparation is 
involved before the grades can be read by the 
scanner. Scanner sheets, similar to answer 
sheets used for standardized tests, must be 
filled in very carefully. Stray marks on the 
scanner sheets cause grades to be read incor
rectly. There is also the problem of trans
porting 2000 (the number of sections at the 
university) sets of grades to the University of 
Pittsburgh campus.
The ITC is currently looking at a scanner 
for CMU. Programs will have to be written 
to accomodate 'the grading system to the 
scanner.
Rainsberger would also like to see optical 
scanning used in the registration process. I 
dont like waiting in line any more than the 
students do, said Rainsberger. We need to 
find a better way to handle registration, and 
optical scanning may be the answer.
Builders find crack in UCC
arch on Washington
antinued from page 1
Indiana, Pennsylvania, has been 
^MU/AFL president since last March. She 
ies to keep the religious part of this issue 
sparate from her arguments. The facts 
k more than God told us not to. I try 
very hard to keep it separate. When asked if
she would attend next years march she said, 
Yes. I dont know what classes Ill have, but 
this is one of the few priorities I have that 
comes before school. This is a civil rights 
issue, not a political issue, and its a center of 
my life right now.
By DANIEL DURKIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The University Computing Center 
(UCC), CMUs newest addition, .is not 
sinking.
A rumour that the building was slowly 
sinking into the ground started sometime 
last week, but according to a member of the 
construction crew, there is no truth to the 
rumour. The construction worker said that 
the rumour was probably started after part 
of a wall began to crack in one section of the 
building. The crack was fixed, but word 
got out to the public and the problem was 
probably exaggerated.
The UCC has been plagued with minor 
problems since construction began last
spring. The majority of these problems have 
been due to construction materials.
The structure will be fully serviceable in 
the near future, but the definite date for 
completion is unknown at this time.
CONTRACEPTIVES 
The Rubber Tree 
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
 Condoms - over 35 vari Foams. Creams. Jellies
 Books, T-Shirts, and 
more
 10-40% BELOW RETAIL******
FOR A FREE MAIL ORDER 
BROCHURE WRITE 
THE RUBBER TREE. DEPT MT2 
4426 BURKE N , SEATTLE. WA 98103 
A PROJECT OF ZPG-SEATTLE
y
x\
THE 
WORLDS 
WORST
FILM
FESTIVAL
,V
to
^00 
otf ? f
V
SpoNsoRtd by A.B. photb

---------------------------------------------------

Girls like Tracy never telf 
their parents about guys like Rourke,
tSCJF It* T f#Tef!*rvfc
AN EDGAR J. SCHERICK/SCOTT RUBIN Production RECKLESS"AIDAN QUINN DARYL HANNAH KENNETH McMILLAN CLIFF DeYOtlNG Written by CHRIS COLUMBUS Produced by EDGAR J. SCHERICK and SCOFF RUDINDirected by JAMES FOLEY, jR.
runr M taui* i J*
1980 MGW/UA Cfiteftafrtrrtert Co
COMING TO A THEATRE NEAR YOU 
FEBRUARY 3rd!
Page 4The TartanJanuary 31, 1984
Fraternities aid in NYU nurse's experiment
By LISA BERUL
Tartan Staffivriter
The brothers of ATO proved to be a real 
asset last week by volunteering to participate 
in an experiment run by Marliane Smith 
who is presently working on her doctorate 
in nursing at New York University. Smith 
appealed to CMU s fraternities for their par
ticipation and approximately 20 brothers 
from ATO decided to help out by dedicating
an hour of their time as subjects.
The experiment tests the effects of differ
ent sound frequencies on various sound 
environments and the changes that people 
develop in their creative processes. Initially, 
the subjects were given a pretest on their 
vividness of imagery. A list of words was 
presented and they were asked to write down 
what they were seeing. They were then 
divided into three random groups in which
an electronic synthsizer produced a range of 
sound frequencies. When this period of lis
tening ended, a post test was distributed. It 
measured how the different sounds had 
influenced the subjects attitude toward cer
tain words and the changes that resulted 
from being placed in these various sound 
conditions.
ATO found this experiment to be very 
interesting and should be commended for
their support. Thus far, 125 people haVf 
participated, leaving only 55 more ^ 
needed in order to complete the experiment 
The men must be between the ages of 18 an(j 
25 and should contact Smith either at hom 
(831-2399) or at the continuing educatio 
branch where she is a nursing instructor 
(462-6401). The experiment is voluntary bu 
can be viewed as helping a fellow scholar 
attain her goal.Mcchanica[ engmeermg professor says issue is substantial
Baumann blasts intellectual property policy
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan News Editor
Professor Dwight M. Baumann has 
spoken out against the intellectual property 
policy a second time.
Baumann, a professor of engineering 
design and director of the Center for Entre
preneurial Development, does not feel the 
new proposal serves the community well.
Originally, the intellectual property pol
icy stated that any thing you invented while 
a member of the university community was
totally yours. The proposal, passed by 
Faculty and Student Senate and about to be 
reviewed by the university trustees, says 25% 
of any creation by either students or profes
sors belongs to Camegie-Mellon.
Baumann said, The issue revolves 
around substantiability. The fact that the 
basic tenants are not expressed leaves too 
much of the interpretation to be drawn from 
inference from the overused words such as 
substantial.
In October, Faculty Senate set up a com
mittee to discuss the policy and the commit
tee developed a new policy which was 
submitted to and passed by senate. At that 
point, I said We (the faculty) havent had a 
chance to comment on it.
Baumann brought his complaint to 
Faculty Senate and they apologized for the 
error. Another committee was set up.
In his article Intellectual Property, The 
Universitys Role, Baumann states The 
concepts of freedom of thought and pursuit 
established by the Constitution suggests,
perhaps, that at least the portion of out 
society endued with the function of preset 
ing, developing, and disseminating know), 
edge (intellectual property) do so with the 
greatest attention to those basic freedoms 
without constraint or bias from the politiojl 
or the market system. It thus follows thatthel 
intellectual property policy, stated oil 
unstated, is the most basic concern with! 
regard to the function of a first da 
university.
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107
photo by Bob Fisfid
DWIGHT BAUMANN
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mem to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
562-0543
843-0505
489-9020
282-1200

---------------------------------------------------

____________________Features.
DS Director Choate shares praise with workers
y JESSICA S. RUDNICK
rtan Staffivriter
Sometimes I wonder whether anybody 
ognizes me. What does the name Bob 
hoate mean to most students?
Choate may be the director of University 
ining Service (UDS), but he is quick to 
int out that it is the people who prepare 
^rve the food that really bring it all 
gether. And he is more than willing to 
are the glory. They deserve positive coments too.
The face of the Dining Services has been 
dergoing an image change lately. Choate 
Sieves that the student perception of the 
cilities is better and more positive than it 
s been in the past. People coming in to 
mplain very rarely do it in a hostile 
anner, he explained. I realize that dealg with the system can be frustrating at 
es, and I take it as a positive sign that 
ople seem more willing to comment conuctively. If you dont hear any complaints 
all, you start to wonder.
Choate still sees room for improvement in 
DS. The more you improve, the harder it 
;ts, he muses. We have a ways to go to 
ach the right image. It ends up being the 
Jtle things that are the hardest to fix. 
Changes have been made such as adding 
ice and cereal to lunch in the Kiltie, and
Biaking the deli available on weekends.
ven the Tartan hamburgers have 
Bn proved. Yes, we had a few problems dur ig peak hours when we first installed the
Figurative Architecture"
UDS facilities: more than a new look.
broiler, he confessed, but things have 
smoothed themselves out. There was talk of 
switching to another kind of patty, a very 
thin round one like they have at Burger 
King, but it just doesnt taste as good. 
The UDS special events like last weeks 
Winter Carnival have been another attempt 
to add variety to the CMU student trough. 
More special events! said Choate, his face 
lighting up. Have we ever got events com
ing up! Valentines Day, St. Patricks Day. 
The list on his desk indicates many more.
Photo bv Bob Fishel
I wonder, I really wonder, if they notice, 
Choate said of the improvements. Ive got
ten some feedback, of course, and sometimes 
the best praise is just no complaints.
UDS has been on the upswing lately. 
This may change the most common reason 
students find their way to Choates office  
contracts. Contracts are the biggest source 
of questions and complaints, said Choate. 
Theres always a lot of confusion.
While students are having problems with 
contracts, Choate must deal with problems
caused by students. We lose dishes, silver
ware, and trays at an astronomical rate. No 
one really realizes that even one of anything 
per student can add up. Its a problem of 
awareness.
With all these changes going on, Choate 
still assures that there are no big shocks for 
the future. There may be a few physical 
renovations, but no major policy changes. 
More to the point, there are some things that 
wont change. We use good raw materials, 
without extenders or fillers. We use name 
brands: Hunts Ketchup, Thomass English 
muffins, Bageland Bagels, Hormel ham and 
bacon. About half of all our soups are made 
here. We use very few canned vegetables and 
we watch the sugar and salt content in all 
our foods. And for the first time in a long 
time, services have been expanded instead of 
cut back.
There are a lot of people wondering what 
happened to x2131, which you called to get 
the days menus for Morewood and Kiltie. 
It broke. Its in the shop. Were planning 
on posting for both facilities in both units, 
so that students can still have a choice with
out a hike.
All of which leads to the inevitable ques
tion of what the student can do to help UDS 
run more smoothly. Well, they could all 
get fifteen meal contracts, Choate laughs. 
Seriously, though, the best thing is to keep 
the comments and suggestions coming. And 
if you see someone doing a really good job, 
compliment them!
rchitect Graves opens Man and Ideas Lecture Series
SUSAN MELLING
Staffwriter
I Post-Modern architect Michael Graves 
|ill open the 1984 Carnegie Institute Man 
id Ideas Lecture Series. As one of the few 
[chitects of the last twenty years to have 
eated a new, personal style, Graves has
arisen as the new leader of the post
modernism movement and will speak on 
Figurative Architecture. The Graves lec
ture will be the first in the 1984 program 
dealing with those forces that help shape 
society and civilization.
Graves earlier career as a member of the
eltzer speaks on economy
The Investment Group was proud to 
msor Dr. Allan Meltzer on January 26 as 
irt of its year long lecture series. Meltzer 
)ke about the problems facing the U.S. 
fonomy. He named three specific 
roblems:
 Higher taxes on income 
Meltzer is concerned with the growth of 
Hern men t. Approximately 80% of our 
Mdget is structural, that is, already predeter
mined. This includes defense, transfer pay
ments, and interest payments on the debt, 
is main concern is that government uses 
me money for consumption, and not invest
ment in the growth of our economy. 
Inflation 
Meltzer believes that variable inflation
rates tend to cause big business cvcles. His 
concern is that rapid money growth will 
reignite inflation to roughly 7%.
International situation 
The friction between countries over trade 
is high and growing. Evidence for this is the 
number of tariffs and quotas the U.S. has 
enacted this year. The strong dollar has 
caused our trade situation to deteriorate. In 
1983, the U.S. registered a 68 billion dollar 
deficit.Meltzers suggested solutions include: 
bring down the expected tax rate, money 
growth must be slowed, and international 
tension must be reduced by trade agrements. 
The groups next speaker is Mr. Richard 
Zappone on February 9.
New York Five, a group of five architects 
whose style dealt mostly with the white, neoCorbusian design, first placed him in the 
architecural spotlight. However, he soon 
transcended from this late-modern style 
into his current post-modern mode 
which, like his former work, has a basis in 
the modernism movement. Thus, as a 
post-modernist Graves was to move away 
from the simple, unelaborate design which 
typified the modernism movement. His 
concern was turned to the creation of struc
tures with a more historical, lively aesthetic.
In keeping with this theory of design, 
Graves has become known as both a leader 
and entrepreneur. His avant-garde style has 
reflections in the classical designs of the 
past; columns, pilasters, keystones, mold
ings and friezes, and his use of soft, rich 
colors are usually direct representations of 
the natural environment. Both have created 
much controversy throughout the architec
tural profession and the public.
Graves Portland Building has become 
the direct recipient of such controversy. A 
15-story building covering an entire city 
block, this structure has been referred to by 
various contemporaries as an enlarged 
jukebox and an over-size, beribboned 
Christmas package. However, despite such 
criticisms, Graves has received much 
acclaim for this building and continues to 
remain in the spotlight. He makes use of 
classical pilaster and capital design for the 
exterior of the building, and at the root of 
continued on page 7
IBM manager Slack to speak; 
WAND AH aids writing papers
Photo by Eric Targan
Investment Group Officers
This is the first in a series of articles presentd by the Information Technology Cen
ter (ITC). They will present information on 
current and future seminars pertinent to 
CMU.
Keith Slack, an IBM manager of joint 
projects with universities, will speak at the 
next ITC/CDEC (Center for Design of Edu
cational Computing) joint seminar. Slacks 
responsibilities include the ITC. He will 
discuss IBMs goals and objectives in joint 
projects, the existing projects with Brown, 
MIT, Berkeley, and CMU as well as the 
relationships between them.
This term, ITC and CDEC have joined 
together to present the seminar series. They 
will cover both the evolving network of the 
ITC and the kinds of applications CDEC 
envisions.
Last week, the seminar series presented 
Ruth von Blum from the Department of 
Psychology at UCLA. She described WANDAH. Writers Aid aND Authors Helper, a 
system to aid in composing papers and in 
teaching composition. This was the first 
seminar to discuss potential applications erf
advanced computing; the system described 
is currendy implemented on IBM PC 
computers.
WANDAH features aids for preparation 
to write, actual writing, and analysis of fin
ished documents. Among the pre-writing 
aids was invisible writing. As you type, 
the cursor moves, but nothing appears on 
the screen. Surprisingly, this helps many 
students by freeing them from the written 
word and letting them think about the sub
ject matter. Other pre-writing aids help the 
user pick out the important points to be 
covered in the paper.
The WANDAH word processor differs 
markedly from others, primarily because it 
focuses on composition rather than trans
cription. Special function keys are defined 
on the keyboard and the document itself has 
a very minimum amount of non-textual 
material (very few typesetting commands).
Analysis erf written work includes aids to 
pick out frequently misused words and will 
soon include a spelling checker. In future 
versions, analysis should be extended to 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Apply for the most respected Card.
NO ONE REFUSED 1 SAVE
20% off at
Fa shions/Shoes  . Sportsweer/Goods.   bnj Oy REPUTED Food PlacesPlumbing/Heating UoiiGE Atib MUCK MGciEIselected &' '3
retail ^PROMOTIONS (412) 621-2000 
businesses. ^Membership Fee: $3*50
. YOUR PERSONAL DATATitle (Optional) ? Mr. DMrs. OMiss DMs.
First, Middle,
Last NamePrint in the boxes below how you would like your name to appear on the Card. Spell last name completely. Full name must not exceed 20 spaces.
Street
City, State, Zip Code
Home Phone (Area Code)YearsThereOwn Home ? RentD
Margaret Morrison Plaza Cleaners
The Margaret Morrison Plaza Cleaners will be offering a pickup and delivery service to your 
campus address for all of your dryu cleaning and shirt needs. Just call the Plaza Cleaners 
between 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to make arrangements to have your items picked up, and to 
arrange when they can be returned to you. Depending on the time of the day your dry 
cleaning is picked up, it. should be delivered to you the following day Shirts will take at least 
two days before they can be returned. For information, prices, or to make arrangements to 
have your dry cleaning picked up, call Jane Brunner on extension 8878.
Margaret Morrison Plaza Cleaners
&
SpecialInterestHouses
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from 
groups of students who would like to be considered for 
residency in one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person 
apartment in the Margaret Morrison residence complex. 
In order to be eligible for consideration as a Special 
Interest House, a student must have at least eight 
members, and one or two alternates if at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the 
Special Interest Houses is to encourage situations 
where the living environment compliments the learning 
opportunities of the residents involved and where spe
cific educational goals outlined by the member-residents 
are understood and enhanced.
If more than 4 groups of students submit applications 
for these Special Interest Houses, a decision will be 
based on a comparison of the educational goals pres
ented and the likelihood of serious educational benefit 
being derived from residency in this type of living 
situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office 
and must be filled out and returned by Feb. 10th,
1984
CAMPUS POLICE 
578-2323
THINK
CRIMEPREVENTION
torheCendemmsh -hCver3C5a todi-3 ismCte Tove e35oHmC3TeE o trCde
PREVENTION PROGRAM. THE PURPOSE OF THIS PROGRAM IS TO HELP STOP CRIME 
BEFORE IT HAPPENS. OUR GOALS ARE:
1. TO INCREASE OUR CAMPUS COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT AND INTEREST IN 
A SAFER, MORE AWARE SURROUNDING.
2. TO PROMOTE TWO-WAY COMMUNICATION BETWEEN POLICE AND THE CAMPUS 
COMMUNITY.
3. TO PROVIDE CAMPUS POLICE WITH EXTRA EYES AND EARS WHEN THERE
ARE SUSPICIOUS PEOPLE, VEHICLES AND ACTIVITIES OCCURRING ON 
CAMPUS.
<*. TO PROVIDE EDUCAIT0N IN SELF-HELP PROGRAMS TO SECURE YOUR DORM 
ROOMS AND OFFICES.
THE FOLLOWING IS A QUIZ, ANSWER THE QUESTIONS AND SEE HOW PRECEPTIVE 
YOU ARE.
1. DO YOU LOCK YOUR DORM ROOM OR OFFICE DOOR WHEN YOU LEAVE FOR 
ANY REASON?
2. DO YOU LET STRANGERS INTO A LOCKED BUILDING WITHOUT KNOWING WHO 
HE OR SHE IS?
3. DO YOU LEAVE EXPENSIVE ITEM(S) UNATTENDED OR LAYING AROUND IN 
PLAIN VIEW.
h. DO YOU REPORT SUSPICIOUS PERSON(S) LOITERING ON YOUR FLOOR?
IF YOUR ANSWERS ARE YES TO ALL THE ABOVE QUESTIONS YOU ARE VERY 
PRECEPTIVE. BUT IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED NO, START THINKING POSITIVE AND 
THE.THEFT RATE WOULD BE CUT DRASTICALLY.
IF YOU WOULD LIKE FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT INVESTIGATOR AND CRIME 
PREVENTION OFFICER FRAN RUSS AT THE CAMPUS POLICE OFFICE (BAKER HALL #1*5 
X2323 BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 8:OOA.H. AND 3:00P.M.)
Crime prevention
measures are a cooperative effort. 
Please help us help you!

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1984The TartanPage 7
Campus Police provide safety hints for students
Crime is a serious problem. We all know 
Yet a lot of it can be prevented if only 
would take away the criminals opporjnity-\o one can make himself totally 
npregnable to crime, but everyone can take 
teps to make the criminals job harder and 
is chances of success slimmer. Please note: 
iese hints are for men as well as women. 
On or adjacent streets to Campus:
- Make it a point to know where all emerency phones are located on Campus. These 
re direct lines to the Campus Police Office.
- Carry your purse or bag close to your 
ody and keep a firm grip on it.
- Walk in the middle of the sidewalk away 
rom doorways, dark alleys, and parked cars 
hat could conceal an attacker. Avoid darened areas.
 Avoid taking shortcuts through alleys, 
deserted streets and areas such as Bureau of 
Mines Road at the railroad crossing, the 
section that comes off Forbes Avenue where 
the bridge is, Flagstaff Hill and Devonshire 
Road. These are areas to be avoided when 
traveling alone. Remember, a good deterrent 
to a mugger is a group of three or more 
traveling together.
 When shopping on or off Campus, never 
leave your purse in a shopping cart, on a 
desk or counter, or in a dressing room.
 Report immediately to the Campus 
Police (x2323) any unfamiliar or suspicious 
persons on or adjacent to CMU property.
 Dont hitchhike or pick up hitchhikers. 
At the Office, Class or any Campus
function:
 Keep your purse or wallet in a locked deskartial Arts members work 
:o achieve better bodies
jy LEIGH HAMPTON
fartan Staffwriter
Behind the basketball court, there is 
Inother, smaller gym. On Monday and 
Wednesday nights, people donned in white 
}ttire gather for th Martial Arts Club meetlg. All members bow before entering the 
[rena or dojo as it is called in Japanese, 
(bout 30 members do extensive warm-ups, 
jiaider than any aerobics class will ever be 
apable of. Then they advance to the Korean 
Irt of Tai-kwan-do. This is a rather noisy 
|port for in exhaling or performing a 
rotion, all members justify it with a yell in 
jnison.
The club is the brainchild of Robert 
)palsky, a recent graduate of CMU, and 
idy Hahn and was established years ago. 
)palsky an Electrical Engineering graduate
is a first-degree blackbelt. He and Curtis 
Smith, a third-degree black belt, teach the 
club. Curtis also teaches jujitsu, a Japanese 
system of hand-to-hand fighting.
There are many Kyus or levels of profi
ciency in the art of Tai-kwon-do. They start 
at white and ascend to yellow, orange, pur
ple, brown, then black. There are three lev
els within brown and many within black. 
The club consists of men and women on all 
levels.
If their workouts look serious, they are. 
The members are commited to a healthier, 
stronger, and meaner looking body. Whats 
more important, though, is that theyre able 
to release frustration through workouts and 
routines. Sounds like the answer to every
ones botded-up tensions.
Graves' use of pastels and 
Master bring criticism
jrrtinued from page 5
inch debate is his use of many colors on the 
j>utside of the building.
Currently, Graves is working on his bigtest commission to date, The Humana
ITC/CDEC presents 
amputer seminars
ontinued from page 5
Include existing systems that understand 
le material and can isolate misusages and
misconstructions.
Seminar sessions are 4:00 pm Wednesdays 
n WeH 5403. Slack will talk February l.
Corp. Headquarters in Louisville, Ken
tucky. Like his Pordand Building it will 
highlight the pastel colors that he fre
quently uses. He is also working on an addi
tion for the Whitney Museum of American 
Art in New York City.
Tickets for the Michel Graves lecture 
may be purchased for $2 at the Man and 
Ideas ticket desk at the Carnegie Drive 
Entrance or from Kaufmanns downtown 
store. The lecture will be on February 8 at 
8:30 pm in the Carnegie Music Hall. The 
series continues on March 21 with 
renowned Harvard biologist Dr. Edward O. 
Wilson.
Slash for Cash!
THE THIRD WAVE
This Week!!! Watch your mail
drawer or file cabinet, or on your person.
 If a cloak room or locker is used, keep 
keys and other valuables out of your coat 
pockets.
 Dont let any valuables lay around in 
plain view and unattended, this makes it so 
easy for the criminal.
 The above safety hints apply even if you 
are stepping out for a few minutes. Dont 
take the chance, it only takes about eight 
seconds for a valuable to disappear.
While in your car or going to your car:
 Have keys ready in your hand before you 
get to your car so you wont have to fumble 
for them in your purse or pocket.
 Before unlocking the door, check the 
floor of the car front and rear to make sure 
there are no unwanted passengers.
 Drive on busy, well-lighted streets as
much as possible and avoid driving in the 
curb lane on darkened streets.
 Keep all doors locked.
 Be wary of hitchhikers.
 If you have car trouble in an isolated area, 
raise the hood and sit inside until help 
comes.
 Be careful of strangers who offer to help.
 Remember the car hom can attract a lot 
of attention.
The safety of the campus community is 
our concern. We are available 24 hours a 
day, everyday  phone: 578-2323.
In cooperation with The Tartan, the 
Campus Police will be providing safety 
hints which present how, by using simple, 
common-sense techniques, to substantially 
reduce the chances of becoming a victim of 
crime.
Pboto by Erie Targan
Strenuous workouts aid Martial Arts Club.
m."'!.
P
viv;',.vIvXvXv.
Seniors, you are invited to the
l SENIOR 
I BANQUET
Saturday, February 4,1984
7:00 p.m. Reception  Ballroom 
8:00 p.m. Dinner  Kiltie Dining Room
AB Dance in the Ballroom 
immediately following dinner.
 Seniors may pick up tickets in the
Alumni Office, 506 Warner Hall, 
by Wednesday, February 1, 1984.
Hosted By:
The A lumni A ssociation
ALL CMU Students are 
invited to attend the dance.

---------------------------------------------------

Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want. Thats why at Great Expectations you'll lea\^ 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED.
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW-STYLE)
COLOR
yTher Tua, Wed. 1*7 7 Aawood Stoee*
Than, Fri. 1*9 7-38*0 Aaom the mm bom
NO APPOINTMENTS 0*lmd fom Office 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you might experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANGER 
FAMILY TROUBLES  QUESTIONS ABOUT SEXUAL IDENTITY  
TROUBLE WITH FRIENDS AND BOYFRIENDS/GIRLFRIENDS 
NO MOTIVATION  SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level, these feelings are quite normal and will not 
bother you too much. It is when such things begin to get in the way, 
to overwhelm you, that psychotherapy might be a help.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented 
psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask 
for Mrs. Brown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. 
About 2 miles away, we are an easy bus ride from Oakland.
%
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center 
211 N. Whitfield St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
Jewish Response to the Nuclear Arms Race
with:
Rabbi David Saperstein, co-director of 
the religious Action Center in Washinton, D.C. 
Friday February 3 
8:00 p.m.
Kurtzman Room of the William Pitt 
Student Union, University of Pittsburgh
Call 621-8875 for more information
Sponsored by Bnai Brith Hillel
OPEN MEETINGon
COMPUTING
Wednesday, October 5, 1983 
7:00 - 9:00 p.m.
2210 Doherty Hall
TOPICS
 Organizational Changes, University Computing 
Center, Timetables
J. P. Crecine, Sr. Vice President for Academic Affairs
 Computation Center Move, TOPS-20 Accounts 
Division, Rates Changes, Public Access to PCs, 
Networking for PCs, Software Staff Status
Bob Cape, Director, Academic Computing
 Personal Computer Support, Plans for Personal 
Computer Store
bill Sholar, Personal Computer Support Group
After the forum there will 
be a question and answer session.
 Plans for Information Technology Center, Sche
dule for Release of ITC Systems
Jim Morris, Director, Information Technology Center
 Educational Computing: Planning for Research, 
Development and Support
Jill Larkin, Assistant Professor, Psychology
 Committee for Social Science Research, 
Current activities
Lee Sproull, Assoc. Professor of Social Science
 Personal Computer Delivery Status, PC Grant 
Program
Doug Van Houweling, Vice Provost, Computing and
Planning
Encore of September 7th OPEN MEETING

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Playhouse performs 
"American Buffalo"
Raymond Laine (left, as Teach) and Jim Sharp 
Buffalo, showing at the Playhouse through February 12.
in American
By VINCENT GUINTO
Tartan Contributing Editor
Remember what I last said about theater 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse: that its okay, 
but lacking in anything especially worth
while? Well, all I can say now, after seeing 
the Playhouse Theatre Co.s 
production of David Mamets 
American Buffalo, is that my 
opinion has certainly changed. I 
went there dreading another mediocre pro
duction and left pleasantly surprised.
American Buffalo concerns a day in the 
life of Donny, Bobby, and Teach. Donny 
owns a crummy junkshop, Bobby is his 
bumt-out ex-junkie helper, and Teach is a 
two-bit hustler type. With an unsavory 
bunch like that, its no surprise that the plot 
centers around a crime.
A week before, a coin collector came into 
Donnys store and bought a buffalo-head 
nickel from him for $90. Convinced that the 
collector took advantage of him in the deal, 
Donny has decided to have Bobby break into 
his home and steal his whole collection. 
Teach stumbles onto the plan and, broke as 
always, fast-talks himself into taking Bob
bys place for half the take.
The plays object, however, is not so 
much the burglary, but rather human rela
tionships. As Donny says,  ... theres busi
ness and theres friendship ... what you got 
to do is keep clear who your friends are, and 
who treated you like what. When the three 
try to mix business with friendship, the dis
tinctions begin to blur and things fall apart
for them. Cruel behavior, lies, slander, 
manipulation all become justified by the 
business in progress. But when the truth and 
the fictions finally come out, Teach and 
Donny are confronted with the basic flaw in 
their behavior.
The play is not a pretty one; it is filled 
with obscenity, cruelty, and the self-centered 
machinations of basically worthless people. 
The play brings out feelings of pity for 
Bobby, whose mind is all but gone from his 
former addiction, and antipathy toward 
Teach, who acts the part of an all-around 
despicable type. There are occasional 
moments of violence. There are also a small 
number of really funny lines, a lot of them 
delivered through (or at) Bobby, although 
the majority of the humor tends to be coarse 
and ridiculing in nature.
As usual, the set was elaborate and excel
lent. Like most Playhouse productions, 
American Buffalo was technically flawless. 
It was well directed; the first act was a little 
more slowly paced than it perhaps should 
have been, but the pacing of the second act 
was much better.
The only possible technical flaw was the 
theater itself. American Buffalo is in the 
Hamlet Street theater, where movies used to 
be shown, while the movies are in the Craft 
Avenue theater. The Hamlet Street theater 
was fine for movies; the screen was high 
enough for everyone to see okay, and you 
didnt expect to be particularly comfor
table at a movie anyway. However, its a 
continued on page 11
Book review: Stephen King at it again with Pet Sematary
By JESSICA RUDNICK
Tartan Staff writer
Its a Stephen King cliche: a small town in 
Someplace, U. S. A., where the local secret 
brings little but destruction and horror to 
the newcomers in the big old house down 
the road. And its no less effective 
in Pet Sematary, his latest bloodchilling novel, than in any of his 
other half-dozen or so previous
novels.
Louis Creed is a doctor, with a loving 
(albeit slightly neurotic) wife, and two ador
able (despite their typical sibling rivalry) 
children. He is not a great doctor; he is the 
$60,000 a year University of Maine campus 
physician. And that is why he packed up his
wife, kids, and cat, and moved from Chicago 
to Ludlow, Maine.
Then there is always the moderately 
strange old man living in the house across 
the road; the one our hero immediately 
knows he is going to hit it off with. And the 
old mans angelic, sweet, long suffering wife 
is not to be neglected. All that remains is a 
revelation of the (terrible) local secret that 
sets this town apart from mine and yours.
It seems that the children in Ludlow have 
a custom of burying their beloved, deceased 
pets in their Pet Sematary which is located 
on the scenic hill behind Louis and his fami
lys new home. But the story goes deeper. 
Beyond the cemetary, nearly inaccessible 
behind a huge deadfall, the path continues,
straight to the real secret of Ludlow: an old 
Micmac Indian burial ground that has a 
certain, well . . . power. You see, everything 
that is buried there comes back to life.
So Louiss daughter Ellie never realizes 
that while she was visiting her grandparents 
in Chicago, her cat was killed by a truck in 
the road and came back to life after being 
buried in the Pet Sematary Annex. Except 
that he is no longer the same cat. And he 
always smells like he just came out of the 
grave.
Now imagine the familys grief when 
their youngest child, their only son Gage, is 
killed by another thundering truck. It may 
have shocked them , but Stephen King, mas
ter of subtlety, left us amply forewarned:
And Gage, who now had less than two 
months left to live, laughed shrilly and 
joyously.
But its all a part of Stephen King, just as 
the wish to keep what you love alive is 
human nature. So its back to the Micmac 
burial ground again. And that is when 
things degenerate into that inreconciliable 
mass of horror that keeps a story squirming 
in the back of your mind for a long time.
Stephen King has been accused of being 
not a writer of novels, but a writer of movie 
screenplays in novel form. But this is one 
King novel that should never see the big 
screen. Novels have by their very nature, a 
built-in screen against those who would 
continued on page 11
Simon puts his Heart, Bones 
into his latest solo release
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Asst. Entertainment Editor
During the late 60s and early 70s, the 
kings of the folk/popular music world were 
undisputably Simon and Garfunkel. Their 
rich harmonies and mellow sounds made 
M them the super-duo they were. 
As they drifted apart and a 
breakup became inevitable, it 
became difficult to tell whether 
it was the songs of Paul Simon or the sweet 
tenor of Art Garfunkel that drew so much 
attention; their solo careers would be the 
deciding factor.
It soon became obvious that it was Paul 
Simon who was the great drawing factor, for 
his solo career brought him perhaps more 
^cognition than his earlier undertakings. 
Now, with his newest release, Hearts and 
Bones, we tan see why; Paul Simons music 
is just good listening, and he has one of the 
op voices in popular music today.
Hearts and Bones was originally sup
posed to be a reunion album of sorts for
Simon and Garfunkel; announced during 
their successful summer reunion tour, it was 
to have been called Think Too Much. But 
for some reason (probably because of per
sonal attachment to the songs on the 
album), the plans changed; the tracks which 
Art Garfunkel had recorded were exchanged 
for new ones. This seems to have been a 
good move on Simons part, for Hearts and 
Bones is by far his best solo release yet.
One of the principle reasons for this suc
cess is simply Simons voice. Songs such as 
the title song, Hearts and Bones, and 
Train in the Distance have wonderful lyr
ics, and yet the smoothness and clarity erf the 
vocals draws the listener into the music.
But it is also the lyrical pictures painted 
that make this album worthwhile. Rene 
and Georgette Magritte With Their Dog 
After the War is a touching song about a 
couple whose love for each other is 
enhanced by their love for the great harmo
nies of the vocal groups of the *50s. Train 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanJanuary 31, 1984
Studio Theatre shows play of
battle wounds in Pvt. Wars
photo by Carolyn Speraiua
This sculpture, which was part of the IT art festival several weeks ago, is indicative of the 
kind of work Chugger Von Voestch is showing at Forbes Gallery.Famous couch gets "night out" in Forbes Gallery art show
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
A studio show is always a wild gamble, 
but always worth it. Its completely student 
run  directing students direct, designing 
students design  and, usually, drama 
students come and watch. I keeps asking 
myself why no other students come to the 
shows. Bad publicity comes to mind; most 
Studio Shows have but one sign on the 
drama-call-board, and are never reviewed in 
the Tartan. For the first studio show of this 
semester, PVT. WARS, all this is changing. 
For the first time in a long time, posters have 
been put up around campus for a studio 
theater. Keep an eye out for more.
And heres the review. Except its not a 
review, but a preview. Studio Shows have 
very short runs. By the time youd read the 
review, itd be over. And youd end up 
missing things like PVT. WARS.
Director Jeffrey Jenkins picked his play 
very carefully. A veteran of the Viet-Nam 
war, he wanted to do a play on the theme of 
returning from war. PVT. WARS, though, 
could be about any war. The characters 
come back from the war wounded, both 
physically and mentally. They come back 
changed. It was a war where no one really 
came home. The people who came back 
were different from those who left. Anyone 
who survived did so by switching off their 
minds, and just doing what they had to do. 
And then these soldiers came back, and fine
The poems of William Butler Yeats will 
be presented by Pauline Flanagan and 
George Vogel on February 8, 1984. Spon
sored by the International Poetry Forum; 
the presentation will also feature music of 
the Irish harpist, Carolan, and Irish com
poser, ORiada, played by flautist Carl 
Adams.
Although the Yeats prose and poetry will 
not be recited in a particular chronological 
order, it will, in a sense, be circular in that it 
begins and ends with Ben Bulben - - 
Yeats epitaph that summarizes his career 
and many of his thoughts. The remainder of 
the program will consist of groupings that 
deal with his childhood memories of Sligo, 
a county in western Ireland that Yeats loved
that theyre hated for what they did.
PVT. WARS is the story of three men in a 
stateside hospital. Gately (Burke Moses), is 
constantly trying to fix himself. Silvio 
(James Nardini) was a street-tough man 
who loved Viet-Nam and all the manly 
activities-until he had his genitals blown 
off. And Natwick (Steven DeLauter) was a 
rebellious rich kid who was hit in the Tet 
offensive. He must now constantly wear a 
urine bag.
The play is the public battles 
private wars. Each man has problems, and 
yet they try to avoid them. But 
cannot escape from their problems; you 
cant go home again.
The play has an even more special 
meaning for director Jenkins. He was a 
surgeon in a stateside hospital like the one 
in which the three characters find 
themselves. This is the place where all those 
extras from M.A.S.H. went after they had 
been nominally patched up. The only 
difference is its Viet-Nam this time.
Author James McLure took special care 
to title it PVT. WARS instead of private 
wars. The battle is still going on in each 
soldier. Each one of them is PVT. WARS.
PVT". WARS has, by the time you read 
this, one performance left: Tonight at 8 p.m. 
at the Studio Theater. The Studio Theater is 
located behind the Fine Arts Building, near 
the ramp that leads up from Margaret 
Morrison St. Admission is free.
and often wrote about; love poems - - both 
earlier and later ones; the nationalist move
ment and revolution and The Second 
Coming, a work based on Yeats cyclical 
theory of history.
A Celtic Sheaf begins at 8:00 p.m. in Car
negie Lecture Hall on Wednesday. Tickets 
are available at the Poetry Forum office " 
located in Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth Avenue, 
Oakland or by calling 621-9893. The Lec
ture Hall box office will open at 7:30 p.m. 
on the evening of the reading.
This program is sponsored, in part, by a 
grant from The Donnelly Foundation and a 
continuing grant from The Pittsburgh 
National Bank.
By KEITH RECKER
Special to The Tartan
Marianne Healy, Chugger Von Voetsch 
and Marty Moldevan will be showing their 
work this week at the Forbes Gallery. Their 
show is called Couch Time at Forbes. The 
show opens Tuesday January 31 with an 
opening celebration from 7 to 9 p.m.
The show takes its name from the couch 
usually found in the hallway between the 
Ceramics and Fiber studios in the sub
basement of Doherty Hall. The couch is a 
central element of the social life of the stu
dents who work near it. The artists decided 
to give the couch a night out, to put a tux 
on it. By bringing this familiar, comforta
ble object into the Gallery, Healy, Von 
Voetsch and Moldevan hope to break the 
formality of the exhibition situation.
Healy, responsible for putting the tux 
on the couch, will be showing quilts, wall 
paper prints, batiks and a slide show. 
Healys work deals with pattern and the 
decorative potential of objects rather than 
strictly with imagery. She also tries to inte
grate an element of humor into her work. 
The quilts in the show are made from hand 
printed or hand dyed fabrics. They each 
have a traditional, quiet side and a more 
flamboyant modem side. It is on the modem 
face of each quilt that we see Healys sense of 
humor; a riot of growing daisies, bright 
color and freewheeling pattern create an
interesting pull between the traditional 
aspects of quiltmaking and the potential for 
modem directions in the craft.
The work Von Voetsch will include in the 
show is made of clay and steel. Von Voetsch 
makes constructions of stacked clay block, 
using both green and glazed clay and spray 
paint stencils. Von Voetsch is interested in 
expressing his feelings about social issues in 
general, but finds the issue of alienation 
most pressing. The installation he plans for 
Couch Time, a wall of stacked clay block 
with a window from which a figure looks 
out, explores his feelings about alienation. 
The artist has planned the piece so that the 
viewer may see the piece in two different 
ways: one may look out the window with 
the figure or one may look in at the figure 
through the opening in the wall.
Moldevan works in steel and clay as well 
His pieces are a reaction to the materials he 
works with. My work is an extension of the 
potters wheel. I start there and then build 
the elements I come up with into a sculptu
ral form. In Moldevans work we can see 
the marks of human interaction with clay 
and many shapes taken from the human 
body. The pieces have at times the quality of 
a totem.
Couch Time at Forbes will be ^t the 
Forbes Gallery until Feburary 4. Gallery 
hours are Wednesday  Friday 10-6, and 
Saturday 12-5.
BE IN THE 
FOREFRONT 
OF TODAYS
Yeats' poetry to be read
TECHNOLOGY
AS A
SCIENTIFICENGINEERING OFFICER
Our scientific-engineering officers are plan
ning and designing tomorrows weapon 
systems today. Many are seeing their ideas 
and concepts materialize. They have the finest, 
state-of-the-art equipment to test their 
theories. The working environment is con
ducive to research. And Air Force experience 
is second to none. You can be part of this 
dynamic team if you have a scientific or en
gineering degree. Your first step will be Officer 
Training School. Help us shape our future as 
we help you start yours. Be a scientificengineering officer in the Air Force. Contact 
your Air Force recruiter SSGT Bob Winterhalter
at 664-2705
*A great way of Me
Positions available now for Singers,
Dancers, Musicians, Technicians, AnimalCharacters and Puppeteers at ADVENTURELAND, Des Moines, Iowa; CANOBIE LAKE, 
Salem, New Hampshire; DARIEN LAKE, Darien Center, New York; GEAUGA LAKE. 
Aurora, Ohio; HOLIDAY WORLD, Santa Claus, Indiana; MAPLE LEAF VILLAGE , Nia
gara Falls, Ontario, CANADA.PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 
Tuesday, February 7, 1984 
Pittsburgh Playhouse 
222 Craft Avenue 
8 :00 a . m. - 13 :00 noon ___

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1984The TartanPage 11
Hearts and Bones" destined to become classic
continued from page 9
in the Distance describes the formation and 
subsequent break-up of a family, which, in 
spite of everything, remains happy.
Simons lyrics are greatly supported by his 
music, especially in The Late Great 
Johnny Ace, his expression of the tragedy 
of death before its time. Simon pays tribute 
not only to Ace, one of the top R8cB singers 
of his time who died while playing Russian 
roulette, but also to John Lennon, shot to 
death in December, 1980, and whose death 
was probably the hardest hitting of any mus
ical personality to date. As Simon walks 
through time with his lyrics, the music does 
too, taking the sounds of the time in ques
tion and bringing them to the present. 
Ace is also greatly complemented by its 
beautiful closing written by modem com
poser Phillip Glass.
It isnt only the vocals and the lyrics that 
make this album such a treat, though. It is 
the varied styles which Simons music goes 
through. Think Too Much (b), with its 
tropical feeling, Think Too Much (a), 
with its danceable beat, and Song About 
the Moon, with its twangs of country, all 
demonstrate these stylistic jumps.
Thought-provoking lyrics do add to the 
effect of the album, however. Allergies 
spreads the idea that love is like an allergy;
its certainly something to think about. 
Allergies also sports a terrific solo by jazz 
guitarist A1 Di Meola. Another thoughtprovoking song (w'hich also has a guest 
appearance) is Think Too Much (a),
which worries about worrying. Think Too 
Much (a) is performed with a little help 
from Chics Nile Rodgers, who was one of 
the major forces behind David Bowies re
surgence with Lets Dance.
So, add Hearts and Bones to your collec
tion, because its destined to become a clas
sic. The record comes straight from Paul 
Simons heart, and I have no bones to pick 
with him about it.
Cast makes "American Buffalo" excellent
continued from page 9
little cramped for a play theater. Also, the 
stage is lower than the screen used to be, so if 
youre shorter than 6' 6", you have to crane 
your neck to see whats going on. Not real
ly a major problem, but certainly a nuisance.
The biggest improvement in American 
Buffalo as compared to other shows at the 
Playhouse is the cast. All three have numer
ous credits to their name, and they are all 
excellent in this play. Jim Sharp as Donny 
was able to play a crotchety old man with a 
soft spot for his assistant without making
the character seem stereotypical or making 
his tenderness toward Bobby maudlin or 
soppy. Instead, it came across as just the 
kind of emotion you would expect from a 
low-life type like his character is.
Raymond Laine, who played Teach and 
also directed the play, was very convincing 
as a two-bit derelict whos more mouth than 
action. His character carries the weight of 
most of the plays action, and Laine fills the 
position well. John Amplas (Bobby) has 
been in practically every George Romero 
film ever made (he was Martin in Martin).
He made Bobby into a believable character, 
bringing out the personality underneath the 
dense haze of his drug scars.
So, I stand corrected. The Playhouse is 
capable of producing quality theater. Much 
of the material for good productions has 
always existed; what was needed was simply 
a better cast. With American Buffalo, the 
Playhouse has finally gotten what it needed. 
Hopefully, this new level of acting will per
sist. In the meantime, theres still American 
Buffalo, which will be running through 
February 12.
CMUTeacher
Art Professor's sculpture in Pgh. Plan for Art exhibit
The Pittsburgh Plan for Art will be exhib
iting the work of five artists in the show 
opening February 12th. The five, all local 
artists, work in different mediums, and their
"Sematary" is classic King carnage
continued from page 9
find them most disturbing. Movies have no 
such protection of offer. The death of a 
beloved pet, the death of a child, and the 
death of a much loved grandmotherly 
woman, and the subsequent resurrection, 
only to end in more hideous death, of two of 
the three, is not movie material.
Yet within the sickness, the horror, the
utter confusion of what can be and what 
should be, there is a hope that perhaps this 
was not a foolish adventure, but something 
more. It is this something more that makes 
Pet Sematary, while not the choicest bed
time reading, nothing less that a typically 
good Stephen King novel well worth 
experiencing.
Senate Vacancy
AMS
Petitions available at Skibo Information Desk
 Due 5p.m., Thursday, February 9,1984. 
All Activities Fee Paying AMS Students 
Eligible.
funded by activities fee
varying styles will prove to be of interest to 
the communty.
Ken Batista, who teaches in the Art 
Department at the University of Pittsburgh, 
will be showing new paintings. Batistas 
work is almost architectural in feel, with 
carefully executed detailing and use of color.
Philip Rostek, otherwise known as the 
art doctor, will bring to life his unique 
and irrepressible sense of art humor in video 
form on the first floor.
The front window will be the setting fora 
large sculpture, consisting of interlocking 
rings, by Lillian Kefalos. This will be Ms. 
Kefaloss first one-person show in the Pitts
burgh area.
Ron Bennett, who teaches at CamegieMellon, will be showing new sculptures on 
the second floor. These new works are in 
wood and bronze and are further proof that 
Bennett is one of Pittsburghs fines* artists.
Besides painting and sculpture, there will 
be a photography exhibit at the Plan. David 
Aschkenas, who was awarded first prize in 
the natural World Photography Contest at 
Carnegie Institute, will be exhibiting his 
recent photos that provide a close-up view of 
some of Pittsburghs neighborhoods.
Gallery hours are Tuesday  Saturday 10-5, 
Sunday 1-5. The Gallery is at 407 Craig St., 
Oakland.
The Greeks
L to R, John Rusk, Conrad McMillan, and Les Paul Kniskem are shown rehearsing

---------------------------------------------------

AB Lectures Presents: 
Stand-Up Comedy By
Barney Hiller...
Remember?!
Thurs. Feb.2,8*00 PM.
I n The Ski bo Bal I room 
Tickets AtThe Info Desk
FuNded By Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans lose twelfth straight game
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Head Coach Larry Anderson 
something new. When
straight, you have to try new things. The 
Tartans took the court against the 
tried Washington and Jefferson Presidents and 
two sophomores, Ray Brennan and Dwayne
Dwayne Waite tears down one of his 19 rebounds against W & J.Klausing named Coach-of-the Year
Waite, were in the starting lineup after 
seeing little action in the first eleven games.
The new strategy worked, to a point. 
Brennan scored 22 points on fifty percent 
shooting (11 for 22). Waite was a force, 
scoring 18 points on nine for 14 shooting 
and also had 19 rebounds. However, the 
Tartans lost 65-60.
In the second half, leading by five points, 
the Tartans lost Waite when he was benched 
with four fouls. When he returned the 
Tartans were down by three, and the 
comeback had been made. Late in the game 
when the Tartans had to foul, the Presidents 
made the shots in the clutch. Tom Connally 
scored perhaps the quietest 17 points this 
has seen. When W8cJ got the ball, 
they got it into Connallys hands. He is their 
clutch performer. The Tartans lack that 
element.
At this point, the halfway mark of the 
season, the Tartans are 2-12 and look like 
they are missing many elements.
The Tartans have been shooting poorly, 
not running their offense. They almost 
solved this against W&J, shooting 45 
percent from the field. But they lost, and that 
makes ten straight going into Hiram last 
Saturday.
Forward Rob Kukowski, who had been 
scoring consistently early in the season, 
scored just four points Wednesday. His 
backup, George Debski, scored 28 points 
against Case Reserve, is a good inside player 
but lacks the outside touch the Tartans need 
at small forward. Two of the Tartans larger 
guards, John Taormina and rookie Mark 
Trich linger, who have both shown outside
shots at times, are both bigger than 
Kukowski. Taormina has shown he can 
rebound, leading the team in that 
department against Allegheny. He should 
be given a shot at the forward spot.
Center Richard Neff has been playing 
poorly. He has rebounded well at times, but 
is a liability on offense. He seems afraid to 
dribble the ball, and doesnt get open inside, 
leading to his 31.9 percent shooting. Dave 
Gestrich, a freshman who resembles a sixfoot, eight inch toothpick because of his lack 
of weight, has seen limited action, but now 
deserves a shot. Gestrich scored sixteen 
points in the junior varsity game against 
W&J.
When a team is 2-10, why not make 
changes? Granted, Anderson made changes 
with Brennan and Waite, but other people 
should get a chance. Sports Information 
Director Bruce Gerson said, Hes 
(Anderson) trying to find the right 
combination. Six players have scored over 
15 points in a game this season, but it seems 
that they never come together as a team.
The way it stands, there is hope for the 
next game. The Tartans play at Thiel 
College tomorow night. Thiel has one con
ference win this season, an upset of CWR last 
week 59-58, to leave the Tartans alone in last 
place.
In Saturday nights game at Hiram, the 
inconsistency continued. Greg Gabriel scored 
20 points, and Neff finally came through on 
offense with 15 points, but the Tartans lost 
64-51. Brennan and Waite scored just eight 
and two points respectively, and Kukowski 
didnt take a shot from the field the entire 
game.
fey SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffxvriter
The football season for Camegie-Mellon 
hnded months ago with a heartbreaking 
)!ayoff loss.. But that loss didnt diminish 
he exceptional season the Tartans had. It 
I ippears as if the rest of the campus and 
l ountry wont soon forget, either. Tartan 
ead football coach Chuck Klausing was 
tamed Division III Coach-of-the-Year for 
To that, Klausing replied that he 
Jwants (his success) to continue and that we 
lavent tapped all the possibilities of this 
earn, ye.
jjj The 1982 Tartans had a so-so year, losing
 o Case Western Reserve, Hiram, and John
 irroll. In fact a last second touchdown 
elped them beat Washington and JefferBon. The rest of the Presidents Athletic Con
ference coaches saw the future and 
predicted that the Tartans would finish 
ourth in the PAC in 1983. Klausing com
mented, We deserved to be picked fifth in a
je with Allegheny and Bethany. The team'M Report
fv SEAN QUINN
|artan Staffxvriter 
All bowling fees must be paid to Strand 
Jleys before February 5. Teams not paid by 
date will forfeit season and pay full 
owling fee anyway, so please pay on time, 
ebruary 2 is the due date for waterbasketand table tennissingles and doubles, 
pool rosters are due February 9.
IM night will be Thursday, March 8, a 
a> More Greek Sing/Swing weekend, 
etails will follow. The IM Banquet will be
Ield in room 100 Skibo at 5:30 p.m. WednesaY> April 25. With this early mention, 
1(1(s no excuse not to find a date. Finally, 
next IM Board Meeting is Thursday, 
ebruary 2 at noon in room 104, Gym
went on to defeat cross-town rival Duquesne 
in a close game. We were not so great at the 
beginning, but we improved each game. 
The coaches did a great teaching job and the 
key players showed great leadership. But, 
even after the Duquesne game Klausing felt 
the ability was there for a good team. It 
was up to the coaches to do the teaching, led 
by Klausing and defensive coordinator Don 
Poluszek.
After defeating Hiram, the team picked to 
finish first in the PAC, in a blowout, The 
team continued to get better, after all, we had 
to if we were going to beat Case, which was 
ranked fourth (in the country). Then came 
the crushing loss to Salisbury State at Tech 
Field in the first playoff round. It was dis
appointing for the seniors. But, it leaves a 
bigger challenge for the coaches. We have to 
work hard to maintain a good team. We 
cant stay at status quo or things will just 
drop off. We always have a goal for a better 
future.
One of the things that Klausing will con
tinue to implement is the very successful two 
starting team offense. This did a number of 
things. It allowed us to use fresh troops and 
more importantly, kept morale up in prac
tice because a player knew that he had to 
work hard or someone just as good would 
play the entire game. Finally, it gave us one 
of our lowest injury rates, ever.
As for the award, Klausings humbleness 
shines through. This is a great honor for 
the coaching staff and the team. They won 
it, Im but a small cog in the wheel.
Now that he is more well known around 
the country, this being his second Division III 
Coach-of-the-Year award with CMU, some 
are afraid Klausing may be plucked away by 
the big boys in Division I, but Klausing says, 
Not likely. Im very happy here. Im not 
seeking anything. Im just really enjoying 
myself here.
Photo by John KoRcrs
Chuck Klausing talks to ABC television before the game with Allegheny.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanJanuary 31, 1984
DANISH or BROWNIES .25$
university
dining
service
CABER CLUB CABER CLUB CABER CLUB
Ice Tartans
By JOHN KENNEY
Tartan Staffxvriter
The Camegie-Mellon ice hockey team 
saw plenty of action this past week, as they 
trounced Bethany on Wednesday night and, 
in a dramatic replay of last seasons playoff 
final, faced Gannon University at Gannon 
on Friday night.
The Tartans had an easy game at Bethany 
on Wednesday night. The Bisons were never 
really in the game. CMU outclassed and 
outskated them, and glided to an easy 7-2 
victory.
Friday night was a different story, though. 
The Ice Tartans expected Gannon to be 
tough, and tough they were. CMU had met 
Gannon in last seasons playoff final and, 
though CMU had won, it had been a close 
game. Gannon had come prepared to even 
the score.
The game was played to stands packed 
with Gannon fans, who were treated to a 
fine display of hockey; both teams played a 
superb game. The first period ended score
less, and, altough CMU had some fine 
opportunities, they came up empty handed.
The second period was much the same. 
Both teams played with intensity and 
looked hungry for goals, but were unable to 
get any until Gannon finally notched theWomen lose as turnovers prove costly
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffivntn
Tartan womens basketball started off 
well, but then went strictly downhill. 
CMU leaped ahead of Carlow for the first 
five minutes but was unable to retain the 
lead for very' long. Playing at Carlow Thurs
day night, Carlow boasted a 61 though
inexperienced center who reached above 
everyone to sink a few sky hooks. With a 
good fast break offense they were also able to 
connect with key shots from the outside to 
beat the Tartans 60-38.
While CMU is having trouble passing the 
ball inside, the guards grabbed their chances 
at outside shots, but not often enough. Its
BreaH !
9 pm - 11 pm
Join the fun and the 
after nine crowd 
at the Tartan Grill !
obvious that they require more inside shoot
ing and better ballhandling technique Jo 
put together a favorable game. Defensively, 
the Tartans played a sound game, not allow
ing Carlow to run away with the game until 
the second half.
Up by ten at the end of the first half 
Carlow gained momentum in the first few 
minutes of the second half. Pressing more 
defensively and getting a few fast breaks they 
showed quickness and good shoot
ing. By the time Coach Kathy Paczkowski 
had called a timeout the score had jumped 
to 38-22.
The Tartans were also hurt by at least six 
missed free throws. Considering this is the 
number made bv Carlow, its obvious that
forgiving
United Way
the game from the foul line played a major 
role Thursday night.
They fared little better two days later in 
their conference game at St. Francis. There, 
CMU couldnt stop their high scorers. Bar
bara Miller and Cheril Meier racked up 20 
and 19 points respectively to sink the Tar
tans 89-49. Though the Tartarts had a better 
shooting game, as both forwards scored 
more often inside, the defense couldnt stop 
St. Francis power scorers. Michelle Schlegel 
and Christie Munn both playing on the 
inside had good games but is wasnt enough 
against the opponents offense. Schlegel 
grabbed 16 rebounds and 13 points while 
rookie Munn was high scorer with 17 points 
and snatched eight rebounds.
The Tartans had the usual trouble turn
ing over the ball with 32 miscues, though 
their hard driving full court press forced 34 
on St. Francis. The host team did make 15 of 
their foul shots while the Tartans missed five, 
creating a 20 point difference in the score.
Admittedly, many of their games are 
affected by their free throws and personal 
fouls. Both aspects can play a decisive if 
unglamorous role in any game, and are pla
ces where CMU hopes to bring under con
trol with experience and practice.
THINK SPRING AT THE CABER CLUB
Before you know it Spring will be here, and time once again for all those outdoor activities. 
Why not get back in shape now at the Caber Club. Convenient hours, reasonable 
membership rates, and our trained staff is waiting to help you with your training program. 
For information or for an appointment call extension 8876.
lose in rematch of playoff final
first with little more than a minute left to go 
in the period. This came while CMU was 
caught short-handed as a result of a penalty.
As the last period began, the Tartans 
knew they needed to score quickly, and it 
showed. In just the third minute of play, 
wing Caleb Corkery dug the puck out of the 
comer and found center Bob Koch with a 
thread-the-needle pass. Koch took the pass 
and fired it past Gannons goalie to even the 
score.
This left the score tied, and both teams 
struggled to gain the upper hand. The play 
was fast, intense, emotional, and violent as 
the two teams began to get frustrated with 
the lack of scoring. Then, the tie was finally 
broken in the seventh minute, when a Gan
non forward put a fine slap shot in the 
upper right-hand comer of CMUs goal.
The Tartans fought hard to even up the 
game again, but Gannon fought just as hard 
to remain in the lead. Despite playing 
impressive hockey and threatening to score 
several times, CMU was unable to tie the 
game. In a final attempt to score, the Tar
tans pulled goalie Bob Kosakowski out of 
the net with a half a minute to go, in order to 
gain an extra skater. This proved fruitless, 
though, and with just one second left in the 
game Gannon managed to score one last 
goal on CMUs open net. This left the score
Photo by Steve Winawer
Bob Koch (11) and Kevin Scully (17) head for the Gannon goal in the Tartans 3*1 loss.
3-1, Gannon. their respect for the Tartans fine play. If
Overall, it was a very exciting game. Both these two teams meet in the payoffs, which
teams played great hockey, and Gannon s seems very likely, it should be a game to
elation as the final whistle blew showed watch.

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1984The TartanPage 15
IntramuralsIIIht bTccun
hst Team
Craig Falci 
Derrick Minnow 
Dave Stone 
Pete Visconti 
Ed war do Socolovski*
>alie - Scott Brinkman 
cond T^am Carl Sutton 
Simon Yi 
Ira Krell
Roberto Canepa 
alie - Scott Brinkman 
ajors Most Valuable Player - Mike 
tzgerald - GSIA (5 goals, 5 assists in
games)
itermediates
rst Team 
Robert Fleischman 
Neil Shapiro 
i Jan Vander Vorem
ICU2 
GSIA 
GSIA 
PIKA 
CM* 
SUPA 
PIKA 
ICU2 
TX - A 
ICL2 
SUPA
Tartan Men's Basketball
Individual Statistics
NAMEGFGMFGAPCTFTMFT APCTRATOSTTPPPGPete Bennett74579.5691626.6152620311410615.1Greg Gabriel1269160.4311415.9332746381715212.7Robert Kukowski123697.3712736.75043173213998.3George Debski123282.3902939.7444810114937.8Richard Neff122372.3192450.4807952010705.8Scott Saxton121428.5001117.64738273393.3Herb Sendek111329.44836.5001114147292.6Ray Brennan111850.36045.800157142403.6Dwayne Waite81222.54513.33333161253.1John Taormina111648.3331825.720243189504.5Tom Suckling5516.31358.62513533153.0Mark Trichtinger327.28623.667401162.0Dave Gestrich3410.40024.5008131103.3Ed Pultz100.00000.000000000.0
CMU12289700.413156237.6584391311998573461.2Opponent12346683.506190260.73146015917110688273.5
BASKETBALL
STANDINGS
MAJORS
John Fix
:>alie - Mark Bolan 
?cond Team 
Nick Williams 
I Jeff Solar 
Chico Bergman 
Chuck Marino 
! John Marom 
oalie - Chris Lewis 
itermediate Most 
lariso Taverna 
ssists in 5 games)
:
ATOSection AwL
Kapppa SigThe Mission20Nasty NadsSAE20
ATOPika-A10Nasty NadsSUPA I11Nasty NadsWeight Watchers11
Icemen01
Kappa SigSuspended Animation01
ZBTPenetra tors02
ATOSection BwL
DUCE. Pika11
DU 
ATO
Valuable Player - 
ATO (9 goals, 4
Hie Gents 
Beta-A
Quiche Eaters 
Freelancers 
Running Rebels 
K.C. Grelins 
Gharmete
[irst Team 
Phil Gerard 
Fritz Haberman 
Pat Shanahan 
Erik Brown
Mike Chrogott 
Steve Pleva
INTERMEDIATES
DTD 
Soccer II 
ICU3 
ICU3 
DTD 
IX B 
3E Morewood
goalie - Roger Woodward - Sigma Nu 
jiinors Most Valuable Playerhris Wargo - Sigma Nu
ACC
ATO Maulers 
Theta Xi  B 
Old Millworkers 
Mothership 
Wooglin 5 
Back Door Men 
Kappa Sig  B 
CIA
w
I
I
I
0
0
0
0
0
L
0
0
0
0
0

1
1
MetrowLBig 10wL
Kappa Sig  BI0ATO Tide10
Jordans Angles00Arch Angels10
We Dunk a Ball A00Delta 2 Phi00
N2000Turing Machine00
Retrospective Grapefruits* 00Clay Buckets00
Nasty Nads00Tau Delta Phi Alpha00
GSIA I00All Card  No Board01
DU00DTD01
Big EastwLSECwL
Penetrators20Degenerates10
Meins10Quiche Eaters10
Wolfpack1 -0Phi Kap  A10
6E Niners00The Presso _0
Nasty Habits0L.B. Melmans00
Architects01Math Grads01
Bad Attitude01Theta Xi  A01
Earls Fools02Cash in Advance01
The College Inn
HIGH TECH SHOW
photography
videocomputer images
submit work by Feb 10 
must be ready to hang 
call 6212013 or x2081
Sandwiches
 Pizza
 Salads
 Soft drinks
Open  Monday through Saturday 
11:00 a.m. - 11 p.m.
open to all students
show opens Feb 14
Comer of EUsworth and 
College Avenues, Shadysidetele: 361-4900FORBES GALLERY
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

DL
DL
LB
DB
DB
DB
Honorable
Mention:
WR Wayne Hollock
WR Mark Licata
Honorable
Mention: Tim Nagy
Rich Kilmeyer 
Randy Swenson
MVPWayne HollockPika 
Coach of the YearKeith BlockPika
Page 16The TartanJanuary 31, 1984
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU has been selected as the representa
tive of Division III sports programs to show 
its program at the First Annual National 
Athletic Administrators Conference in St. 
Louis, Missouri, on May 22. Athletic Direc
tor James Banner will attend the conference 
for CMU, along with administrative repre
sentatives from a selected school in Division 
I, I-A, and II.
Im very pleased that CMU has been 
selected, said Banner, noting that weve 
won consistently for several years in many 
sports, not just one good year in one sport.
Banner feels that CMU was chosen on the 
basis of a very well-balanced, well-rounded 
sports program here. Weve developed a 
winning sports program along with excel
lence in academics.
He feels that this past falls season may 
have been the impetus, noting that in 70 
fall contests, CMU was victorious 56 times, a 
winning percentage of .800.
Banner also pointed out the fact that his 
honor is shared by all the coaches, just as 
when someone is named coach of the year 
we are all happy since were all a part of this 
program together.
one coupon per ordersave $1.00off the regular price of a Gyro and Drink with this coupon at
NI K0'$ wm
424 Semple Street 
Take out & Deliveries - 681-8608 682 -8608 
Expires Feb. 29, 1984 
 not good with delivery or any other special offer  mm <
Offense
Rick Trombetta 
Jim Ryan 
Steve Machemis 
Dave Pasternak 
Wayne Hollock 
Mark Licata
Pika
Beta
Pika
Coaches Stars 
Pika
Kappa Sig 
Beta
Coaches Stars 
Rogues
Defense
Rick Creech 
Steve Trapp 
Joe Scarci 
Chris OMara 
Mark Weinsten 
Joe House
Paul Pasicynyk 
Mike Drobac 
Tom Wickham
ATO
Beta
Pika
Beta
Pika
Pika
ATO
Beta
Pika
Francis leads swimmers
This past weekend, Tom Brekovsky, 
John Elliot, Mike Fitzgerald, Steve Francis, 
Gina Illig, Chris Leech, Bruce Nelson, and 
Rob Summers, of the Tartan swim team 
participated in the Kenyon Invitational. 
The mens team placed eighth beating, 
amongst other teams, conference rival Case 
Western. The team was led by Steve Francis 
who took first in the 100 freestyle and fourth 
in both the 50 and 200 free. Also finishing in 
top eight was Mike Fitzgerald who took 
seventh in the 200 individual medley.
The womens team, which was repres
ented solely by Gina Illig, also took an 
impressive eighth place. Illig took second in 
the 200 I.M., fifth place in both the 4001.M. 
and 200 breaststroke and eleventh in the 100 
breast. Adding strength to the Tartan
lie
were Summers, who competed in the gruel ft] 
ing 1650 (mile) race, and Leech who pullecl 
off surprising finishes in the 100 fly andfjj 
I.M.
The Kenyon meet was special because of 
the invitational format. Swimmers had i 
qualify in order to race.
The spirit and leadership of senior cap I 
tain Brekovsky has been a very positiiB 
factor for the team. The unity of the teamifl 
evident by the enthusiasm and cheennil 
when Tartan swimmers are in the wateif 
The Tartans have been very impressive Jfl 
far this season and are looking forward to*^ 
high finish in the Conference Championl 
ship at the end of February. The team will 
be home for the next three meets, Sat. (Fell
(Feb. 11).
Budget Hearing Session
CMU chosen to speak at Conference 
for Administrators in St. Louis
Thursday Feb. 2nd 
at 8:00 p.m. in 
Skibo  Room 45
all organizations 
wishing to be funded 
or with Spring budgets 
Must Attend!
For More Information:
All !M football team
Dean Cox 
L. Sabadell
x2704
621-6508
Funded fry activities ft*

---------------------------------------------------

introducing... i
the Japanese PU iV/v (foo-tahn)
A uniquely 
versatile 
mattress 
..by day
...by night
Featuring layer upon layer of 100% fancy 
biend cotton batting encased in heavy 
mattress ticking. Available in 6 sizes
...crib to king...and in four styles: ...by night
standard, extra thick, standard , ^ 
with foam core and extra thick f|'>
accompanying autom Futon
furniture, coordinated covers Jk ^ "
^DELIVERY
(within city limits) 
exclusively at
THE LINEN CLOSET o^ ,0li dg 22 l P l
Corner of Walnut Street and Maryland Avenue  412/362-8045 
112 N. Church Street, Boalsburg, PA 16827  814/466-7332
STUDENT SENATE PARTY
COME MEET YOUR SENATORS!
Friday, February 3 4:00 PM  6:30 PM 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
ALL STUDENTS INVITED
Free Refreshments
They mill be there to answer all your questions.
wwrnm
ic?
7:30 a.m. - 9:30 a.m. 
EVERYDAY
SMALL COFFEE
with purchase of a 
breakfast entree!
Funded by your Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Campus community shares crime blame
Recently, a CMU student narrowly escaped 
rape. Violent crime on our campus, like most 
colleges, is prevalent. In 1983, 14 students were 
assaulted, 8 were robbed, and 16 had their cam
pus residences burglarized. CMU has a 
problem.
Blame. Some accuse the victim, saying that 
his or her actions invite crime - a ridiculous 
premise. Nobody would invite assault. Its a 
contradicdon of terms. So lets come out of the 
Dark Ages. The criminal should be punished, 
not the victim.
Others point to Campus Police - another 
mistake. Since police chief Bob Fadzen arrived 
two years ago, many security measures have 
been implemented. The problem is that Cam
pus Police simply cannot be everywhere at
once.
Still others blame the traditional scapegoat
 the administration. Yet, administration has 
multiplied security funding in the past decade.
If fault is to be found, it should be placed on 
the community, not any individual. Unfortu
nately, most of us are a product of the me 
generation. If an incident does not hurt us, we 
dont get involved.
That attitude is safe until 6,000 people who 
dont want to get involved are put into one 
location, i.e., CMU. When that happens, a 
criminal has open season as long as one of 
those conspicuous campus police vans is not 
around. In other words, theres not reason that 
a crook shouldnt strike.
A solution. In recent years, community 
crime prevention programs have sprung Up 
everywhere, effectively limiting crime. 0^ 
wonders why such organizations of maybe 15 
people in an entire town have had more 
impact than if the municipality had simply 
added 15 more police officers. The answer is 
simple. When the group is comprised of community members, the citizens get a sense of 
us against crime, instead of the government 
against crime.
The point is that we dont have to go around 
wearing berets on our heads, just keep your 
eyes open. If you see something unusual, make! 
noise. Call Campus Police immediately.
Check the Features section for morel 
information.
Reagan's State of Union prompts stern repliesShapiro: Militarism, discrimination are quietly returning
By Stuart Shapiro
Those of you who missed President Rea
gans State of the Union message last week 
will be relieved to know that America is 
back  standing tall, looking to the 80s 
^ with courage, confidence, and 
p hope.
At least thats what Mr. Rea
gan says. But Mr. Reagan says a 
lot of things, many of which seem to refer to 
some parallel universe unfamiliar to those 
of us who do not own a pair of rose-colored
glasses. If America is indeed standing tall, 
maybe we should try sitting down and col
lecting our thoughts.
Mr. Reagan and his supporters may be 
convinced that we are proceeding down the 
Yellow Brick Road, but I have the distinct 
impression that we missed the interchange. 
Contrary to what the President believes, 
America is headed in a disturbing direction. 
Here are some of the mile markers.
Creeping militarism. Granted, we should 
certainly have a strong defense. What we
have is production of a wish-list arsenal of 
unnecessary weapons, unqualified adula
tion of our armed forces, and a frightening 
preference for military action over diplo
macy. The Reagan administration has 
given us a new first strike missile (the MX) 
that will not increase our security, a new 
bomber (the B-l ) that will be obsolete before 
the first one rolls off the assembly line, a 
revival of jingoistic sentiment, and military 
solutions to political problems. Yes, we 
need to modernize our military forces. Yes,
the men and women of oUr armed fora 
deserve our respect and admiration. Ye 
military power is an essential element! 
foreign policy. Mr. Reagan, however, 
stretched these facts to the breaking poiiji 
and beyond.
Retreat from social justice. The Reagai 
Administration has demonstrated tremenl 
ous courage and fortitude in taking on thi 
poor, the sick, the crippled, the une 
ployed, and the victims of discriminada 
continued on page 2
Scott: Forgotten individuals are not getting on well
By Wendy Scott
Whenever President Reagan describes 
America, I am forced to conclude that he 
lives in another country. Reagan lives in a 
nation compsed of Brady Bunch-like fami
lies: nuclear, middle-class, 
benevolent and suburban. 
Obviously, such families do 
exist, but they are far from the 
norm. The country I live in consists of 
entirely different people.
People like Eddy. When he was a junior, 
lack of funds and health problems forced 
him to leave college. For a few months he 
worked as a cashier at 7-11 on Liberty 
Avenue, but that was only temporary work.
He would like to continue school, but for 
now he is unemployed and on welfare at age 
24.
Then theres Cathy. If youve lived in 
Pittsburgh for any length of time, you have 
seen Cathy. Shes a black woman, about 
35-years-old, who strolls the city speaking 
sofdy to herself. Her most outstanding fea
ture is her lower right leg, which is nearly 
two feet in diameter. For the last two years 
she has lived at a shelter for homeless 
women downtown, which is unfortunately 
only open at night. Cathy receives no medi
cal care because she has managed to deny the 
existence of her ailment. A therapy does 
exist for her elephantitis, but her total denial
makes treatment impossible. So she sleeps at 
the shelter each night, and walks the city by 
day, smelling of street dirt and baby powder.
The Richards family is another example. 
They live in a small rural community sou
theast of Pittsburgh in the Laurel Moun
tains. Its not quite Appalachia, but its 
close. Like many of the area residents, the 
Richards are farmers, maintaining a hand
ful of acres and a couple of dairy cows. 
Generally they grow enough vegetables for 
themselves with a few for the market. Unfor
tunately, there isnt much market for small 
farmers, who cannot compete with the 
megaton farmers by selling products at 
supermarkets. Because the Richards family
has only a Farm License they also cann| 
drive into Pittsburgh to sell their produce 
the Farmers Markets. So, this farming 
ily has to use food stamps.
Then theres Susan. She has a B.S. 
technical writing from CMU. After gradi 
tion she found a good job with a si 
manufacturing company in Pittsburgh 
strip district. She worked there for 
years but was recently laid off for financsl 
reasons. Now she sends her resume even 
where and collects unemployment, 
cleans and re-cleans the apartment, and si 
continued on page!
Lvciiuc, uut uuii Wd9 uiiiy icni[AJidiy wuik. cwi lui nei cicpiutiiuua, uui liu luuu uciuai oup.uuaiiv.Lu>. ucuiux: uic xuu wiua uiiiiuy Wsffl&Bk tmPratto: Reagan's fairytale is not accurate llCBlfelli
enchanted
prosperity,
By Felicia Pratto
Last night, Pappa Reagan told me a 
wonderful fairytale. It was about an 
land brimming with peace, 
freedom and values. And the 
people in the story were like in a 
dream. It had a handsome sold
ier, a good woman who was just 
like Horatio Alger, a nice, han
dicapped doctor, a kindly priest, a new fron
tier, politicians who dont fight, and an 
all-American family. The trouble is, it was 
supposed to be the State erf the Union 
address, not a bedtime story.
Last year was not a year of free
dom. Our troops secretly invaded a sover
eign nation against the opinion of the 
world. Never mind what the president said 
the invasion of Grenada was. We used force, 
not votes, to abolish a government which 
was chosen by its people.
But, as usual, America prevailed. Our 
only inconvenience is that we citizens expe
rienced a news blackout, the most extreme 
form of censorship, because the administra
tion said the press might be critical of the 
invasion. (See, you guys shouldnt have kept 
talking about how the Marines blew up
those two Grenadine hospitals). Freedom of 
speech and freedom of press were blatantly 
denied Americans last year, but this is only 
the most public example of disappearing 
freedoms.
Reagan has also been attempting to stop 
politicians and government employees from 
informing the public about what is going 
on in government. We have gained a lot of 
important knowledge of government poli
cies from the Freedom of Information Act, 
but Reagan has been trying to weaken it. He 
has been trying to limit government 
employees freedom to communicate what 
they know about government. This reduc
tion of information decreases the efficacy the 
rest of us can have in influencing our 
government.
The greatest abridgment of freedom in 
1983 America is that over half our countrys 
population is still denied the freedoms our 
constitution is supposed to guarantee. The 
Republican Party, under Pappa Reagans 
direction, refused to reintroduce the Equal 
Rights Amendment for ratification.
In Reagans fairytale, we do not need 
women to be equal adults, but only to civ
ilize cavemen. In his fairytale America,
there are mommies and daddies who need to 
worry about their IRAs and pension plans 
not about foreign policy or the record 
deficit. But the fact is, the majority of Ameri
can children are growing up in single
parent families. Yet rather than support 
programs which help single parents do the 
two jobs allotted them such as educating 
and providing for their children, Reagan 
wants us to return to traditional values. 
Besides not having traditional families to 
share these values, many of our tradicontinued on page 21
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the op I ed 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions arc not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves
Editor in Chief.................................Rio Mato
Managing Editor............................Susan V
Business Manager............................Karen Ty&
News Editor..........................Neil J. Greenblu
Features Editor ................................Neal Johns*
Entertainment Editor......................Mark Lfv1
Sports Editor.................... Christopher D. L0
Photography Editor........................Mike Pik**
Production Manager...................... Maria fa
Typesetting Manager......................Patti Q&
Art Director.................................Michael Sussd
Contributing Editors...............Vincent Gu<
Monica f 
Pauline
' Pauline
Asst Ent Editor............................Adam 1
Asst Sports Editor................................. Scott
Asst Business Manager.................Bonnie
Production Staff: Robert Aarhus, Peter B 
Andrew Ghali, Tracey Pejouhy, Cart 
Speranza, Steve Volan.
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial1 
reserves the right to withhold from publicau^ 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 0#1 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. M 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA * 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1984The TartanPage 19
etters;
Ipinions should be put back
litor:I have been reading The Tartan since I 
as a freshman in 1981. In addition, I have 
itten for the news and entertainment secns and worked on the production staff 
[st spring- In general, I have been satisfied 
ith the material presented in The Tartan 
well as its quality. However, I cannot 
[ake that statement concerning the Janu24 issue.
My first impulse was to express my disapjintment by turning in the readership sur
ly that served as the greater part of page 
|ur in this issue. I did not turn this survey 
for two reasons. First of all I try to avoid 
adership surveys because of their vague 
Id impersonal nature. Secondly, I realized 
[at my feelings could not be adequately 
Inmmunicaed if I limited my responses to 
le questions in the survey.
So here is my position. The major 
[>int of this letter is to persuade The Tartan 
itorial board to rescue the op/ed section 
jm the depths into which it has fallen and 
^ore it to its original spot on the second 
^d third pages of the paper. Letters to the 
itor, opinion columns, and the weekly 
itorial are vital to the paper not only 
ruse of their popularity among readers, 
^t also because they serve as a point of 
entification between The Tartan staff and 
readers. Therefore, the op/ed section 
)uld be placed in the front of the paper so 
it students can sit back, open up their 
Hest copy of The Tartan and find op/ed 
feting in its natural position.
Another reason (and perhaps a more logill reason) to move op/ed back is that most 
Bj the subject matter dealt with in this sec>n is related to campus news, behaviors 
Hid attitudes. Thus, it makes sense for the
link to be intensified by placing op/ed in the 
midst of news or back to its prior home on 
pages two and three. An added benefit is that 
op/ed may serve as news when the number 
of news articles is low. For example, op/ed 
could have saved the day in the January 24 
issue when one half of the first three pages of 
the paper was devoted to advertisemnts (cer
tainly not the most important feature of the 
newspaper).
The new editorial boards reasons for the 
repositioning of op/ed are unknown to me. 
Although the board may be eager to estab
lish itself as competent, changing the format 
of the paper only reveals that the boards 
ideas are unique. In fact the board may be 
overlooking that The Tartan has already 
established its own style and reputation. For 
example, in 1982, The Tartan won several 
awards at the PCPA in Philadelphia. There
fore, the main concern of the editorial staff 
should be to maintain the quality of the 
paper that has won such recognition. Con
centration should be focused on quality 
rather than change.
If quality is to be maintained, the staff 
must join forces and stretch their ideas 
beyond general positioning of subject matcontinued on page 20Feldman wants religious equality
Editor:
I am writing in response to Randi 
Bograds letter to the editor.
Randi wrote that she resented the fact that 
I took it upon myself to speak for the Jew
ish students on campus. The full quote is, 
At this point I might only speak for the 
Jewish students on campus. I purposely 
wrote might because I knew all the Jewish
students on campus would not feel as I felt; 
otherwise I would have written a more defi
nite statement such as, At this point I am 
speaking for all Jewish students on 
campus.
Secondly, my point was not to get rid of 
Christmas cheer on campus, for I agree with 
Randi, I only wish that people could be 
like that more often. My pont was that
every religious group and its holidays 
should be treated equally on campus. That 
includes all dining facilities, all dorms, our 
student union building, and our school 
newspaper. The Tartan spread happened to 
be a good example of this not happening  
and I thank The Tartan for apologizing for 
the oversight.
Gail Feldman
[ASA neglected for too longPresident complimented for spaceplans
By David Moskowitz
f\ permanendy manned space station 
H ild eventually serve as a base for colonizK the moon or Mars. This was one of the 
| )posals made by President Reagan in his 
State of the Union address last 
week. Coming from someone 
other that John Glenn, his most 
worthy opponent, this came as a 
iplete shock to me.
Space is a field that has been neglected in 
last decade. Even with the development 
the space shuttle and many unmanned 
lorers, the achievements made have been 
til compared to those of the 1960s, which 
pluded major breakthroughs in medicine, 
munications, metals, and other 
ences.
Whenever the possibility of developing 
newr frontiers has existed, it has been the 
tendancy of government to take control over 
these efforts. This, while never questioned, 
has been accepted as unavoidable. One fact 
has been overlooked: with the exception of 
national defense and enforcement of laws, 
anything that government can do can be 
done better by the private sector. Looking at 
ANY attempt at socialization or nationaliza
tion can prove this. Surely the President is 
aware of this fact. He is quite aware of the 
dangers of regulatory constraints and has 
made mentioned to the future development 
of space by private interest. I ask, is it neces
sary to spend $30 billion to promote this 
development? In case you havent heard, our
country is in debt and this is quite a large 
sum to spend, considering that not spend
ing anything would accomplish more. All 
that is necessary is to bum the regulation 
book and open up this field to the free 
market. The President said it best himself in 
his speech, We are first, we are the best, and 
we are so because we are free. I would have 
added We are so when we are free. This 
has always been the case. A good example is 
that of a frontier of a century ago, the devel
opment of railroads spanning the country. 
Initially, these railroads received land grants 
and government protection from competi
tion. All were failures except one, that of J. J. 
Hill, who received neither. If this isnt con
vincing, ask yourself how many possible 
medical breakthroughs were averted because 
of F. D. A. Regulations? Would the problem 
of AT&T have occurred if they had not been 
given a government enforced monopoly? Or
one that everyone can relate to, what has 
happened to the price of air travel since 
airline deregulation? Why should space be 
any different? There is no immediate mil
itary need for the station, unlike the Star 
Wars proposal, and a Moonraker scenario is 
a little far fetched. There is certainly incen
tive for private development of the next 
frontier. It is just what the dwindling aero
space industry and coundess others need.
All in all, the Presidents proposal 
deserves credit for the fact that it may prove 
to shed light on a subject that has been left in 
the dark for too long.
David Moskowitz is a freshman in CIT 
and plans to write a weekly column for The 
Tartan.
I'ov/efs are the bad guys
he evil American image is a misconception
By Mkhaei Hoff
| All of a sudden, America is the bad guy. 
lerica is the single most dangerous threat 
| world peace. Never mind the Soviet war 
Afghanistan or the Soviet funding of 
revolution around the world, we 
are the threat to world peace. 
Sure, the Soviets have enough 
missiles pointed at Europe to 
stroy it several times over, but we are 
ng for deploying missiles that are an 
active deterrent to a Soviet first strike. But 
all know that the Soviets would never 
jtke first. They are a peaceful nation if you 
|(il(K)k Hungary, Poland, Czechoslova
kia, and K.A.L. flight 007 to name but a few.
It is sad to see so many of our own people 
criticizing U.S. policy. It is their right, their 
privilege to voice an opinion, I am not critic
izing that. The problem is that too many 
people are finding fault with U.S. policy 
without examining the motives and condi
tions which force such policy. America 
would not deploy new missiles in Europe 
unless it was necessary to stabalize the bal
ance of power and to protect our interests. It 
is dangerous and even frightening. Nobody 
wants war. But what is even more dangerous 
and frightening is an unbalanced nuclear 
force in favor of the Soviet Union. We
possessed nuclear superiority for many years 
but never capitalized on it. Why would we 
pull the trigger now if we did not do it then? 
But why fear the Soviets? Because of their 
blatant policy to overtake the world. If 
anyone can look at the history of the Soviet 
Union since World War II and still feel that
the Soviets are not the threat to world peace, 
they are truly naive. So why protest against 
the United States? The real threat is on the 
other side of the world.
Lord knows that America isnt perfect. 
Some policy is wrong. So are some laws. But 
in this case, the United States is not to
blame. We are not the ones threatening 
world peace  we are only pressing the 
issue. If we do nothing, the eventual demise 
of the freeedoms which allow protest and 
opinion is inevitable. We have to take a firm 
stand. We haw to flaunt our power. We 
cannot just let the Soviet Union continue to
perpetrate violence and oppression. Eventu
ally, they will do the same to this nation if 
we do nothing. Is it wrong to stop this? Lets
start pointing the finger at the real threat  
the Soviet Union  and stop criticizing 
America for taking all the measures neces
sary to protect freedom.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanJanuary 31, 1984
Nate leaves musical entertainment to Jerkz
By Nate Solano
They said I couldnt do it. Said there was 
no chance of booking a band to play the 
STUDENT SENATE HAPPY HOUR 
since no money could be offered. Said I was 
crazy trying to get a band from 
Toronto. Mentioning the price 
of a plane ticket from there to 
here, they said any band that 
would put themselves hundreds of dollars in 
the red just to play at CMU must be bunch 
of jerks . . .
Well, the bands name is Happy Healthy
Godless Jerkz. Are they popular? Ask Dean 
Walter. And the Jerkz are coming.
Theyve promised to put on a sophisti
cated show Friday afternoon. But even if 
they dont, remember were not paying 
them.
This is a band that emphasizes demogra
phics more than it concerns itself with this 
abstract, pseudo-intellectual buzz word, 
music. This is a biracial, bisexual band 
that draws upon every tax bracket for 
members. They consider watching lots of 
MTV and seeing all the right movies
more worthwhile than troubling themselves 
with this abstract, pseudo-intellectual con
cept, rehearsing. Five of the six players 
have agreed to get haircuts immediately 
before they play on Friday, and the sixth has 
promised to buy new leather pants.
The Jerkz come to us hot off a provincewide tour of Alberta, having opened for 
Rush sixteen days in a row. Harrowing is 
how the band describes that string of onenighters. Reviews were mixed; ... forty-five 
minutes of pure tunnel vision, wrote one 
critic; another wrote about cruel jokes and
suspect cognitive processes... . in a veritable 
cardboard circus. A third review ends with 
the words, caused a riot.
So it looks like were in for a treat. The 
band refuses to play any original songs, (f0r 
political reasons), so the songs should t* 
familiar. Rumor has it theyll even cover a 
Shunts song . . .
Friday, February 3, this Friday, 4-7 p-ni 
Skibo. Free food and bubbly yellow liquid 
to drink for 25<v glass. Be there.
Nate Solano is President of Student 
Senate.
Tobias takes "free market" to its ultimate limit
By Dan Tobias
There have been those, including Presi
dent Reagan, who have condemned the 
underground economy for evading taxes 
and costing everybody else money. He 
^ implied that those who participate in cash transactions with^ out reporting them to the
government are acting immor
ally. However, I dont agree with his reason
ing. I consider the concept of taxation itself 
to be immoral, and thus, those who manage 
to evade it should be congratulated.
Lets take a hypothetical case. Suppose 
there was a gang of thieves who went
around to storekeepers and helped them
selves to a share of the cash in their registers. 
If they were to continue to do this on a 
regular basis, then certainly you would say 
that the sensible thing for the storekeepers to 
do would be to safeguard their money so the 
thieves could not find it when they make 
their rounds.
Well, in present society, it is the govern
ment which plays the role of the thief. They 
insist on having their cut every time 
money changes hands. The fact that they say 
it is for the public good is no excuse. If I 
were to steal your money, and then give it to 
charity, I would be no less a criminal for
RESOURCES
Our resources begin with a history of firsts in engineering microelectronics breakthroughs. We achieved this by providing our engineers with a dynamic working environment, surrounding them with inventive minds and advanced equipment, and giving them the green light to express their creative insights.
OBJECTIVES
Our consistent goal is to market a tradition of Innovation in advancing state-of-the-art microelectronics, and to anticipate the needs of our customers. We achieve our objectives by cultivating the finest minds in our industry and rewarding their contributions.
NEW COLLEGE GRADUATES
The vision, skills and desire that you bring to Intel will take you far beyond the ordinary In professional life. This is. by far, the most exciting time in high technology, and Intel is creating even more excitement with Its emphasis on innovation. If you are graduating with an engineering degree in Electrical, Computer Science, Chemical, Mechanical or a related technical discipline, we offer challenging opportunities, with advancement based on achievement, in Texas, California, Arizona. Oregon and New Mexico.
INTEL
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
FEBRUARY 9 & 10, 1984
Meet with our recruiters and learn how you can make the Intel formula work for you.If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume outlining your career goals In care of INTEL COLLEGE RELATIONS" to the location of your choice: Arizona: 5000 West Williams Field Road. Chandler. AZ 85224;California: P.O. Box 3747, Santa Clara, CA 95051;New Mexico: 4100 Sara Road, Rio Rancho, NM 87124;Oregon: 5200 N.E. Elam Young Parkway. JF1-1-149, Hillsboro, OR 97123;Texas: 12675 Research Blvd.. Austin, TX 78766.
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H.
U I winners II IIQl by design
that. And, it is quesdonable whether a large 
share of the money taken in by the govern
ment is actually used for the public good. It 
is your money that is paying farmers not to 
grow things, helping to persecute lifestyles 
the government disapproves of, and sending 
congressmen off on fact-finding missions 
to various exotic places you probably 
couldnt afford to travel to yourself.
Another common excuse used to make a 
distinction between taxation and theft is the 
concept that the government is the peoples 
representative, and is only exercising 
powers delegated by the people. But it is 
ridiculous to suppose that the people, indi
vidually or collectively, can delegate powers 
they do not posess in the first place. Since 
neither you nor I have the power to com
mand any other person to give me a percen
tage of his income for his own good, this 
power cannot be delegated to any represen
tative body.
In addition, with taxation come many 
other nuisances. People and businesses must
fill out reams of forms in conjunction with 
the various taxes imposed by the govern 
ment. The amount of labor diverted from 
productive pursuits to complying with tax
regulations, and finding tax shelters, i$ 
astronomical. And any attempt by the] 
government to stamp out the underground! 
economy inevitably necessitates
Brother-ish interventions, as it is impossible, 
for anything short of a totalitarian govern 
ment to detect even a small portion of the! 
cash-based transactions that go on.
Reagan is popularly considered to beanl 
advocate of the free market. It is thus illogij 
cal that he should put down the under! 
ground economy, which is the closest thing! 
in this country to a free market, in which! 
goods and services are exchanged at teimsi 
decided on by the participants, without anv[ 
government meddling.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in Applid 
Math and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Forbes Gallery deserves coverage
Editor:
Three artists opened their show the even
ing of January 17. The artists were inter
viewed and a short article describing the 
show was written and submitted to The Tar
tan. Apparently, an editor on The Tartan 
staff did not find this tradition newsworthy. 
I believe that to be an injustice to the hard
working artist.
If you do not agree, read the following:
The Public Relations Manager (of 
Forbes Gallery) is responsible for maintain
ing campus and city-wide publicity for 
Gallery shows. He will enter articles pre
viewing each show in The Tartan, keep the 
Campus Calendar up to date, and make sure 
that those on our mailing list are aware of all 
Gallery Activities.
Two weeks prior to your (the artists)
show, you must schedule an interview DEPR 
our Public Relations Manager. He is not a 
critic, he will work with you and develop 
what you feel the campus SIOONEPA 
should know about your work. This inter
view will make up the preview of your show 
which will appear in The Tartan the day oi 
your opening.
The above two paragraphs are excerpts 
from the Forbes Gallery contract that all 
artists having a show must sign and submit 
with a twenty dollar security deposit. The 
Public Relations Manager and the three 
artists who displayed work the week of Jan 
uary 17 followed the instructions stated in 
the contract. The Tartan did not. If tradition 
is not binding to the editors of The Tpm 
surely a contract must be.
Robin A. Wilhaitt
Opinion should be in rightful spot
tion staff. Perhaps the editorial board | 
should be less concerned with individual 
flair and more concerned with getting tb
continued from page 19
ter. I hate to have to say this but quality in 
production wasnt one of the highlights in 
the January 24 issue. Typographical errors 
sloping type, and Headlines with words 
missing are errors that distract the readers 
attention from the importance of the written 
material. Such errors can be easily corrected 
by a well-informed and well-trained producA Phi O will be handing out book 
exchange checks in Skibo room 36 
on Saturday, February 4 from 1-5 
p.m. Please come to arrange for the 
reselling or pickup of your books as 
well.
paper to its highest potential.
If errors have been made in production# 
in judgment, they are errors that SX wj 
avoided in the future. In addition, they cafl' 
not be blamed on a particular individual 
Although the editors do hold authority, 
they do not control the entire paper, Produc 
ing a weekly paper takes combined effort 
and is certainly no mans island
Finally, I ask that further editorial deo 
sions be made in the finest interest of $ 
paper and of the reader.
And Im sure Im not the only stu(^! 
who was associated with The Tartan XTYL 
asked, Hey, whats happening to the paP 
Wheres the Op/Ed section? I was YIIGEFM 
Nates column, and . . .
Susan Bos 
Junior Technical Wri^

---------------------------------------------------

January 31, 1984The TartanPage 21
pratto: Reagan's view right out of a storybook
ned from page 18
inal values are now illegal (slavery, 
passion of workers, massacring Indians, 
Eiying women and blacks the vote, black sting, vigilante justice). The other
 ilues Reagan tells us are traditional are 
I ten just new values conservatives support.
 hats part of fairytelling.I Reagans support for traditional educaI m has taken the conservative form of huge
 deral cuts in the education budget and in 
Biancial aid programs for college students.
t ving teachers as little as possible but not 
rgaining with their unions is another 
nservative ploy. So is the pretense that 
Bayer is an effective teaching tool. Note that 
I e real tradition in our country is separa13n of church and state. Prayer in schools is 
litical strategy which gains Reagan the 
pport of conservative Christians.
Likewise, the tuition tax credit is another 
by. This plan would actually hurt schools 
giving incentive to upper class families 
d make it possible for middle class fami- s to withdraw their support from public 
ools.
You might think that only in Pittsburgh 
the fairytale of prosperity fail to exist, 
t the fairytale of prosperity really only 
sts on Wall Street. Reagans administran and his Hunger Commission refuse to 
nowledge that poverty statistics are releto the state of the economy. He tells us 
merica is back. Were poor again. The 
Bimber of Americans below the poverty 
e increased by 5 million people between 
and 1982, to 34.4 million people. And 
lericans are hungry, even if Administras cant see it. More than half of our 181 
nergency food assistance programs 
rted that assistance requests increased at 
50% in a one-year period (through Febry, 1983). The USDA distributed 60-75% 
re food for food centers in 1981-82, but 
h programs still turn away hungry 
pie.
Our enchanted land is not wallowing 
freedom, democracy, or prosperity, 
|n the most incredible part of Reagans 
rytale is that the U.S. is at peace with the 
rid. We provide open economic and milsupport to the most brutal and opprese dictatorships in the world: the 
lippines, El Salvador, Brazil, Chile, 
uth Africa, ... we are surely not in the
Int
SO
lefasi
iry
abortion 
c ounseling sen'ice 
U'ith warmth and 
dignity from peopU
ii'ho t art' .
dSatr(enter
Allegheny 
Women's Center
an out patient 
medical clinic offering
' abortion
 tree pregnancy tests
 personal counseling
 birth control services
 gynecological care
 Morning Alter treatment
362-2920
Medical Center Eat Building 
Penthouse Right (Mh floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh. PA 15206
ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
GRADS
Harris Semiconductor, a major 1C 
producer, will conduct ON CAMPUS 
WTERVIEWS on Tuesday, February 7th. 
Openings available in all phases of 1C 
design, processing, test, device 
engineering, and marketing Contact: 
Placement Office to arrange interview or 
ca" Mr College Relations Office COLLECT 
* (305)729-5768.
EQual Opportunity Employer. M/F/H
business of peace. One example: since Rea
gan became President, the U.S. has sold $28 
mllion worth of weapons to the government 
of South Africa. These sales make mockery 
of the UN embargo against such sales. Such 
weapons enable the government of South 
Africa to enforce apartheid, a heretofore 
unrecognized democratic institution.
By deploying its own troops in Lebanon, 
the U.S. has demonstrated it cannot be a 
neutral negotiator for the warring peoples 
of the region. Indeed, it has made democracy
 rule by the people  into a fairytale. U.S. 
military forces are in Lebanon to prop up a 
government which represents a minority of 
its citizens.
1983 also marked the most substantial 
deteriorations in super power relations in 30 
years. Yet, Reagan wants us to believe we are 
more secure than ever before. We are con
tributing more funds and less caution to war 
than ever before. The dangers of this cold 
war obliterate the fairytales of safety com
pletely. We spent 60% of our Federal budget
last year on Defense ($265 billion), and Rea
gan wants it to increase this year. Blundy 
put, the money simply isnt where Reagans 
mouth is.
Last year, we began deploying missiles 
which will change international relations in 
the world forever. We sent cruise missiles 
close to the Soviet border which are small 
enough to fit in a dorm room. Their size 
alone virtually demolishes any chance a 
verifiable arms reduction treaty can be nego
tiated. Further, the high speed and accuracy 
of the Pershing IIs has led the Soviets to 
threaten repeatedly that they will go to a 
launch-on-waming defensive system.
That means that last year, the prospect of 
computer systems making decisions about 
firing nuclear weapons became more real 
and more frightening. The U.S. is reputed 
to have among the best computers in the 
world. The U.S.S.R. does not. The highquality U.S. missile warning system 
reported 4 false attack warnings in 1979 (the 
last year for which we have such information). These did not result in a nuclear 
exchange for two reasons: there was human 
intervention, and humans knew that the 
state of U.S.Soviet relations did not merit 
a missile exchange. Now that Reagan has 
the Soviets fearing America (thats what cold 
war and deterrence are all about, kids!), such 
mistakes on Soviet computers might be 
interpreted as aggression. Witness how def
ensively the Soviets reacted to the accidental 
straying of a civilizan airplane over its 
border. They shot it down.
There is one more thing Reagan didnt 
mention in his address. Many independent 
and noted scientists have concluded that 
even a small nuclear exchange would mean 
the end of life on earth. For this reason 
alone, it would be nicer if we could believe 
in Reagans free, safe, and prosperous, fairy
tale world. But it wouldnt be honest, and it 
isni safe.
Felicia Pratto is a psychology alumnus of 
CM and, is a columnist for The Tartan.
Shapiro: America regressing to past values
continued from 18
head to head with no holds barred. Its been 
a long, hard battle and its not over yet, but 
this Administration has selflessly done wha
tever was necessary' to protect the sacred 
right of such people to be poor, sick, 
crippled, unemployed, and victims of dis
crimination. Human rights are swell, but 
who can afford them? Let them eat ketchup.
Attack on civil liberties. The public 
apparently doesnt have the right to know as 
much as it used to. Mr. Reagan has spear
headed the most comprehensive attack on 
free speech and freedom of the press since the 
days of Joe McCarthy. Attempts have been 
made to water down the Freedom of Infor
mation Act. Reporters were excluded from 
the Grenada operation so that the official 
version of the story would be the only ver
sion of the story. And lets not forget Mr. 
Reagans earnest efforts to create what will 
amount to a Department of Censorship. 
Such dedication would normally be cause 
for admiration; in this case its cause for 
concern.
But dont worry. Mr. Reagan has a very 
reasonable explanation for all this. Milita
rism means peace. Lack of compassion leads 
to freedom. Secrecy ensures a secure demo
cracy. Maybe Ronald Reagan and Yuri 
Andropov have more in common than they 
think. After all, Mr. Reagan seems con
vinced that the only way to preserve this 
great nation is to make it more like the 
Soviet Union.
Happy 1984.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student in 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Scott: The poor are poorer
continued from page 18
sleeps a lot.
Nancy lives in a very small town in West
ern Pennsylvania. Fifteen years divorced, 
she lives with her three teen-aged children. 
Shes a registered nurse, but no work exists 
for nurses here. Nancy as been working partat a small grocery store for three years, but 
the business is failing, so she has been laid 
off. Currently, she too is collecting unem
ployment. The family lives on that and the 
income of the oldest daughter, who works 
part-time as a bartender at a ski resort.
Obviously, the middle-class nuclear fam
ily does still exist, but the broken family
and the second-marriage family are now 
more common. Similarly, most families 
today cannot afford to live on one income. 
Increasing numbers of people are falling 
below the poverty line  people with both 
education and experience. Still, after three 
years in office, Reagan is unaware who the 
average American really is. John-boy 
Walton and June Cleaver are fictions. They 
always were. The stereotypes that Ronald 
Reagan governs by are not only false, they 
are harmful  even dangerous  to real 
Americans.
Wendy Scott is a senior majoring in psy
chology and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Iff Its Happening 
In Electronics
Its Happening At Harris
Harris is a Fortune 200 corporation headquartered in 
Melbourne. Florida, with sales in excess of $1 8 billion A 
fast growing giant in advanced communications and in
formation processing. Harris boasts a breadth, diversity 
and synergy among its business sectors which positions 
us to direct the development of the electronically driven 
Information Age Our products, systems, networks and 
components, which are used to process and com
municate data. voice, text and video information, aresold 
in more than 100 nations of the world In fiscal 1983. 
Harris employed 22,000 people and operated 35 plants in 
the U.S.. Canada, Europe and Asia and we realize that we 
will attain future objectives by selecting, nurturing and 
advancing talented individuals
HARRIS WILL BE INTERVIEWING 
ON CAMPUS 
TUESDAY (FEBRUARY 7)
See your Placement Office for details 
We are an equal opportunity employer m l h v
HARRIS

---------------------------------------------------

Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is now accepting submissions of [oetry, 
fiction, one-act plays, black & white drawings, prints, and photography for its 1964 edition.
Writing submissions must by typed and include a cover sheet with authors name 
and address. The should be placed at the Skibo Information Desk, c/o Editor, 
Oakland Review. If submitting from off-campus, include a self-addressed stamped 
envelope to insure return.
Art submissions may be placed in Room 302, College of Fine Arts, or at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Special accomodations, questions, call Kristin Kovacic, x4466.
Deadline for all submissions is February 1, 1984.
Copies of the 1963 edition are now on sale at the Bookstore.
Funded by Student Senate.
HOUSING NOTICE
The Room Reservation process for the 
1984-1985 academic year will be held 
during March 1984.
All current residents who wish to take 
part in the Room Draw process must 
pay a $100 Housing Deposit directly 
to the Cashier's Office between Febru
ary 1 st and February 24th, 1984.
Residents must show a deposit receipt 
to sign for a room next year.
Don't let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest. . . Now try the BEST!
CAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS food
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese
 DO OTHERS?
Mon. - Sat. 5-2 a.m. 
Sundays 3-2 a.m.
Larqe 10 CUT 
PZZA ONly
$5.50
Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
3415 Forbes Ave., Oakland tele: 681-2202, 2203
This price for lunch/dinner Eat in or order out.

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
OE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
Toe ) if y0u tuKN our to 
3i IN fm ARTS) 
i.AS A HAOm, WILL 
HAVE A SVxmlm oii&*TtoM 
lo Hate youj
N|EAH j sm^ \f yoo'Ri aD
I, AS A CRAMAT, 
CAKJT HAue ANYTHIM6TO 00
\M\tH You!
APT. KRON KITE AND REXby John Malley
-
REALITY Control? Tampering rtan Reality?
TRUTH IS, "DEAR READER, YOUR'S IS NOT THE 
QV/Y UNIVERSE. THERE. ARE MlLL/OJS OFTtfEM, ALL 
STACKED UPON EACH OTHER LIKE PA6F5 W A P//ONE 
BCOK? W A STRUCTURE CALLED  PHASE SPACE. EAC/J 
REALITY IS DICTATED &r /T'5 OVA/ WV/<pUE SET OF 
MATHEMATICAL EcpUAT/bA/5 0^ UBQWHQ/A MATRIX.
CRumE A parameter. here ok there 0m> a DEPR SIDPONP
5) ERASE A CONSTANT  AMD Y2)l> GOT YbUK OIAJN 'TAlLORMAPE CCGMoSt All /TYAKR /S A UlffLE KMH-HOW AAIJ>
A MEAN STREAK, ANP W CAN KWAi EVERTCWE'S WTrtffcUCHa/T 
AN ENTIRE UNiVE/R^E  0^- EVEAI INORSE.
REALITY CONTROL PATROLS F6R svctf ILLEGAL TANPER/N&
AND SETS THING-S RIGHT, OR. CLOSE EWUGH. AS TO W//0 OWlNALCY 
SET UP VHH le THOSE ghnyBUoBmo' UBVHnsC CONTROL f
WKY A/0 OA/E KWHJ5...........UNLESS YfrU BELlME THAT
ASOuT A LONG DEAP ALBJ RACE AWT> A BE/VC- A/A MED "^AlpH
SURGICALLY ALTERED TO PERMIT MENTAL 
MANIPULATION OF PHASE SPACE, CATTA/AJ 
KRON KITE AM SLIP FROM CWE REA MTV 
7D ANOTHER AT WILL.................
('REMOVE)
rWELL, KEX - ?VT IM A RE$09T^ 
F-R. NEW OFFICE Completmi
AMP X UE55 SOH WAH-5-----
n-c A CAN OF RA\D. AWP THEN 
6ET REAP Y T PHASE. . TUST 
WHERE IS THI5 TAr<PEKlNt,
1 AN'i^AY? CLOSE OfLWl
CAPTAIN KRON KITE, Field a&ENt for reality control , TartnSrf >f trut/i,JUSTICE, AM>?ESONEL
PR.EAM6.............
11Jo
INDEXTER
My ott> ass--dur NevEg 
Would have lent We hit
How J^ vbtJ KPEcr We NJ
INSIDI TVUS TONICA Toy?/g
' Dort'r utSrx n
SUNPOOP.' JUST MAKE SKT 
you DONT DAMA6T
IT/
by Don Beyer
rhe BC OKFUC N&T TO 
STEp on rr /
~r

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements./Events.
Housing
One-Bed room Apartment in Shadyside now 
available, wall-to-wall carpeting, parking, 
optional lease, $275. 363-3560.
Sen/ices
Attention CMU Sunbathers! Surfs up but our
prices arent! From just $109  spend 7 fun-filled 
days in sunny Florida. Call for yourself or organ
ize a small group and travel FREE! Great for 
clubs, too! Call LUV TOURS 800-368-2006, ask 
for Annette.
Moving? We go in the snow. Call Second Mile 
Light Hauling, ask for Vince. 231-2766. 
Wanderlust? Summer travel plans? Try Youth 
Hostels this year! Over 300 in USA, with 5000 
worldwide. Individual travel or group trips avail
able. Membership $10 for under 18s, $20 for 
those over 18. For informaiton, brochures write 
A. Y. H. Hostels, 6300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15232.
Hempfield Recording. Eight track studio includ
ing state of the art digital signal processing 
equipment creates excellent opportunity at reaso
nable fees. Musicians/music students. 864-0786. 
Flying Fingers Word Processing. Business/aca
demic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Editing 
included. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
Childcare. Is your toddler lest in large nursery 
school environment? Experienced woman pro
vides quality care full and part-time in home in 
Squirrel Hill  CMU area. Pre-school instruc
tion, activities and meals. Excellent references. 
683-2277.
Identify your organization with a custom printed 
T-shirt or jersey. We silk-screen print shirts for 
the campus community. Call the T-shirt Com
pany at 578-3535 and speak to John for details.
For Sale/Wanted
IBM Selectric Typewriter - newly reconditioned, 
must sell, call Brian at 683-5271.
Faculty family living near campus needs student 
to cook dinner (nothing fancy). Hours and salary 
negotiable. Phone: 8:30-5, 622-6661 evenings and 
weekends 521-7515.
ADOPTION: Loving, well-educated, financially 
secure couple desires white newborn. All 
expenses paid. Legal. Confidential. Call us col
lect, (617) 358-6354.
Guitarist and drummer wanted for original rock 
n roll/punk band. Serious inquiries only. Adam
682-6812.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the U. 
S. Government5 Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 Ext. 3401-A.
WANTED: Success-oriented, self-motivated 
individual to work 2-4 hours per week placing 
and filling posters on campus. Earn $500-plus 
each school year. 1-800-243-6679.
Information needed concerning animal experi
mentation in campus labs. Mobilization for 
Animals, P. O. Box 218, E. Pittsburgh, 
PA 15112. Strictly confidential.
WANTED: Information. On Wednesday, Janu
ary' 18, at 4:50 p.m., a red pickup truck hit two 
cars parked on Margaret Morrison Street across 
from Donner Hall. Please call Jim at x4220 after 6 
p.m. if you have any additional information 
about the truck. Reward will be given for infor
mation leading to identity erf truck or driver.
Clubs
There will be a meeting of Tau Beta Pi, Tuesday, 
January 31, 9:00 p.m. Highlander Room.
The Peace Alliance will show a slide show on 
first strike nuclear weapons followed by a discus
sion on Wed. Feb. 1 at 5:00, Room 12, Skibo. 
Everyone is welcome.
Ballroom Dance: leam to swing, polka, cha-cha, 
and more! Tuesdays 7:30-9. $10 for semester. Call 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church at 682-4300.
Any males with some volleyball experience inter
ested in playing competitive volleyball with the 
CMU Mens Club, contact Erick, x4950 or x4949. 
CMU Law Club. Anyone interested in law or law 
school please call x8989.
Care about the right to life? Like to get involved? 
Join the CMU Association for Life. Call Terry 
Tuiton at x4826 or Pat Falco at x8618 for more
information. Remember: Rest Easy, Youve 
Already Been Bom.
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is 
now accepting submissions of poetry, fiction, 
one-act plays, black and white drawings, prints, 
and photography, for its 1984 edition. All writing 
submissions should include a cover sheet, and 
may be placed at Skibo Information Desk c/o 
Editor, Oakland Review. Art submissions may 
be placed there, or at Room 302, CFA. Deadline is 
February 1. Questions: call the editor, x4466.
La Table Franaise, French language table, 
Tuesdays, noon. Morewood Dining Room. Stu
dents, faculty, staff welcome. Sponsored by Euro
pean Studies and Modem Language Programs. 
Deutscher Stamm tisch, German language table, 
Thursdays, noon. Morewood Dining Room. Stu
dents, faculty, staff welcome. Sponsored by Euro
pean Studies and Modem Language Programs.
Scrambles Amongst the Alps, a slide show on 
mountaineering, sponsored by the CMU Explor
ers Club. Thurs. Feb. 2, 7 pm, rm 12 Skibo. 
Admission is FREE.
Tau Beta Pi meeting: Meetings for Tau Beta Pi 
are held every other Tuesday in the Highlander 
Room at 9 p.m. All members are urged to attend. 
Next meeting is Jan. 31.
Right to life essay contest: We are looking for top 
quality essays of 5,000 words or less. Topic: The 
Right to Life as a Civil Right. Prizes of $100, $75, 
and $50 awarded. Deadline: Feb. 18th, 1984. 
Write to Right to Life Essay Contest, c/o CMU 
Assoc. For Life, Box 11, Baker Hall P. O., Pitts
burgh, PA 15213, for more information. 
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Skibo Room 11. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESECs international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
General
ton, D. C. 20002.
Come one, Come all! You are invited to an infor
mal BIBLE DISCUSSION GROUP which 
meets on Monday nights at 8 in Room 39, Skibo. 
Stop by, and bring a friend(s) with you. For more 
information, call 441-0819, and ask for John. 
Anthony Penna, associate dean of H8cSS, will 
have open office hours for students between 2 and 
5 p.m. every Wednesday. Students who wish to 
meet with Dr. Penna should telephone his office, 
578-2830, to set up an appointment.
The European Studies Program is pleased to 
announce an essay competition, for best under
graduate essay on any aspect of European cul
ture, history, or contemporary society. Prize is 
$150. Essay should be 15-25 pages in length, due 
November 9, 1984. Essays may be based on course 
papers, but should normally be revised and 
reworked before submission. Essays, and any 
queries, should be directed to Peter N. Steams, 
BH 242B.
A service to honor the memory of Dr. David T. 
Tuma, Professor of Electrical 8c Computer Engi
neering who died on January 18th, will be held 
in the Wherett Room, Skibo, on Wednesday, Feb
ruary 8th at 4 p.m.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open off 
hours for students, between 3 and 5.p.m n !*  
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, FebruaryStudents who wish to meet with the pre$j 
should telephone his office, 578-2200.
Catholic Students: Join the Oratory' Wednesday 
night group each week for Mass (at 6 p.m.), a[n 
dinner and a discussion/fellowship. Everyone 
welcome. Meet at Tech House at 5:30 or 
Morewood Gardens entrance at 5:45 for the walfl 
up. Call Andy at 621-2911 for more information I
Catholic Mass Schedule. Sunday mass in Hun| 
Multipurpose Room, at 7 p.m. Saturday 
10:30 a.m. Sunday. Daily mass in Skibo R0 
39, Monday-Friday at 12:30 p.m. Call 681-3 
for more information.
Come one, come all! You are invited to an infor.| 
mal Bible Discussion Group which meets Mon 
day nights at 8, in Room 45 Skibo. We 
non-denominational in nature, and look 
campus-related issues and topics from the Bible I 
Stop by, and feel free to bring a friend(s) withyo 
If you want more information, please call eitl 
441-0819 or 361-5632 and ask for John.
Theater
To provide additional service for the students, 
faculty and staff, the Cashiers Office has 
extended its Friday hours to 6:00 p.m. The Mon
day through Thursday hours will remain the 
same, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. The new Friday 
hours wrill be 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and will 
continue on an experimental basis to determine 
if the need warrants the additional hours. 
Electrical Engineering Grads Harris Semicon
ductor, a major IC producer, will conduct oncampus interviews on Tuesday, February 7. 
Openings available in all phases of IC design, 
processing, test, device engineering and market
ing. Contact Placement Office to arrange inter
views or call our college relations office 
COLLECT at 305-729-5768. Equal opportunity 
employer m/f/h.
Academic Bag Ladies: over 25, in school, new 
career. Meet 12-1, Lutheran Center, 4515 Forbes. 
Call 682-6886 for information.
Are you lonely and seeking male companion
ship? I am a CMU senior with secure financial 
position who enjoys various recreational activi
ties. Please respond to: Date for Dale, Box 512, 
Donner Hall.
Vira L Heinz Summer Study Abroad. Women 
students currently completing their junior year 
and planning to study abroad in the summer are 
eligible for the Vira L. Heinz Travel Award, 
which provides $2500 to a CMU woman student 
through the Pittsburgh Foundation from the gift 
of the late Vira L. Heinz, a trustee emerita. 
Women interested should pick up an application 
from Dean Cox, Room 206, Warner Hall. Dead
line is January 31. Applicants are asked to be 
available for an interview with the Selection 
Committee, February 10; the award will be 
announced immediately afterwards.
Reward - Womens gold Seiko quartz watch - 
octagon face, second hand, Roman numerals - 
black leather band - lost on Forbes - 422-0731. 
Found: a watch, lying on the ground in front erf 
Doherty Hall Tuesday, Jan. 24 at midnight. Des
cribe it and its yours. Call 421-8581. 
ATTENTION, CONSERVATIVES! If you are 
a conservative with an interest increasing your 
political involvement and influence, write us. 
Well send you free information packets on for
eign policy, economic and social issues and a free 
Activist kit. Tell us your past experience as a 
conservative activist to qualify for job bank and 
training seminar information. Write The 
National On ter for Public Policy Research, 214 
Massachusetts Ave. N. E. , Suite 580, Washing
Through Feb. 4 The Basic Training of Pavlo 
Hummel by David Rabe. The Famous Rider, 
3300 Fifth Ave., Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 
7 p.m. 681-1476.
Through Feb. 4 The Greeks adapted from 
Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides and Homer. 
Part 1: The Wars, Wed. 8 p.m.; Sat. 1 p.m. 
Part 2: The Murders, Thu. 8 p.m.; Sat. 4 p.m. 
Part 3: The Gods, Fri. 8c Sat. 8 p.m. CMU 
Drama Dept., Kresge Theater, College of Fine 
Arts. 578-2407.
Through Feb. 5 The Day of the Picnic by 
Russell Davis. New City Theatre Company, 
South Bouquet 8c Sennott Sts., Oakland. Thu.- 
Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. 8c 7 p.m. 624-6781. 
Through Feb. 12 K2 by Patrick Meyers. Pitts
burgh Public Theater, Allegheny Square, North 
Side. Tue.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 7 p.m.; Thu., Sat. 8c 
Sun. 2 p.m. 32.1-9800.
Through Feb. 12 American Buffalo by David 
Mamet. The Playhouse Theatre Company, Pitts
burgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. Thu.- 
Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 621-4445.
Through Feb. 19  Da by Hugh Leonard. Pitts
burgh Laboratory' Theatre, 420 N. Craig St., Oak
land. Thu.-Sun 8:15 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m.
621-2876.
Jan. 31 True West by Sam Shepard. American 
Playhouse presentation. WQED/13. 9 p.m. 
Feb. 2-4 Loves and Marriages, a trilogy of oneacts by Anton Chekhov, including The Boor, 
The Night Before the Trial, 8c The Marriage 
Proposal. The Penn Hill Players, Penn Hebron 
School, Duff Road, Penn Hills. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m. 
793-0857.
Feb. 3-18 Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mammas Hung 
You in the Closet and Im Feeling So Sad by 
Arthur Kopit. Theatre in the Square, Wilkins 
School Community Center, Charleston 8c S. 
Braddock Aves., Regent Square. Fri. 8c Sat. 8 
p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. 241-7474.
Films
Theater, Carnegie Institute, Forbes Ave., 
land. 8 p.m. 622-3212.
Feb. 3 Worlds Worst Films. Film marathon 
including Wolfman vs. Frankenstein, Muo 
in a Rutt with Elmer Fudd, Story of; 
Mummy, Soothing the Bruise, Flipper; 
the Odyssey, Mongoloid and America Is Wait 
ing with music by Devo 8c Brian Eno, H 
Terror of Tiny Town, 8c Munster Go Horae. 
Doherty Hall 2210. 6 p.m.
Feb. 3 Brainstorm with Natalie Wood i 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oakland H 
9:30 & 11:30 p.m.
Feb. 3 Cries and Whispers by Ingmar Bergna 
(Sweden 1972). Carnegie Lecture Hall, Fort* 
Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 622-3212.
Feb. 3 Poetry in Motion with Amiri Baraka 
Allen Ginsberg (1983). Multi-Purpose Root 
Pitt Student Union, Oakland. 7:30 8c 11 p.i 
681-5449.
Feb. 4 Educating Rita with Michael Cain 
Julie Walters (1983). Pittsburgh Playhouse, Cn 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30, 9:30 8c 11:30 p.m.
Feb. 4 WarGames with Matthew Broderii 
(1983). Doherty Hall 2210. 6,8 8c 10 p.m. 
midnight.
Feb. 4 If ... with Malcolm McDowell (I) 
1969). Museum of Art Theater, Carnegie Inst 
tute, Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m. 622-3212. 
Feb. 4 Dinosaur National Park. Cameg 
Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Institil 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. 1 p.m.
Feb. 5 South Pacific with Mitzi Gaynor(195l 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oakland I 
p.m.
Feb. 5 Greece. (Travel Adventure Series 1 
Carnegie Music Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oaklan 
2:30 p.m. 622-3314.
Feb. 5 Gator with Burt Reynolds 8c Lai 
Hutton (1976). Doherty Hall 2210.6,8 & 10pJ 
Feb. 5 Teorema with Terence Stamp (1$ 
Pittsburgh Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., Oa 
land. 2 8c 8 p.m.
Feb. 6 That Obscure Object of Desire 1 
Brunei (Spain 1977). Pittsburgh Playhouse,Co 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m.
Through Feb. 2 The Reflecting Pool, collected 
work of Bill Viola (1977-80). Carnegie Museum 
of Art, Video Exhibition Room, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Continuous showing, Tue.-Sat. 
10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212.
Jan. 31 The Real World of the Philippines 
(Travel Adventure Series Film). Carnegie Music 
Hall, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. 1 8c 7 p.m.
622-3314.
Jan. 31 Pat and Mike with Katharine Hepburn 
8c Spencer Tracy (1952). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m.
Feb. 1 To Have and Have Not with Humphrey 
Bogan & Lauren Bacall (1944). Pittsburgh Play
house, Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m. 
Feb. 2 Dr. Strangelove with Peter Sellers 8c 
George C. Scott, by Stanley Kubrick (1963). Pitts
burgh Film-Makers, The Plaza Theater, 4765 
Liberty Ave., Bloomfield. 8 p.m.
Feb. 2 Satyricon by Frederico Fellini (Italy 
1970). Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Ave., Oak
land. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m.
Feb. 2 The Cieneral with Buster Keaton (1926). 
Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m.
Feb. 2 Reasons for Knocking at an Empty 
House by Bill Viola (1983). Museum of Art
Music
Jan. 31 Great Performers: Isaac Stem (1 
Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., Downtown. 
392-4835.
Jan. 31 Music for Viola da Gamba' withj 
Domemburg (viola da gamba) 8c Jillon StopP 
Dupree (harpsicord) including works by Ba 
Marais. Univ. of Pgh. Dept, of Music, Frick1 
Arts Audit., Oakland. 8:30 p.m. 624-4126. 
Jan. 31 Billy Idol. Stanley Theatre, Seventh^ 
Downtown. 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 2 Ozzy Osbourne, Motely Crue, 8c 
Civic Arena, Downtown. 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 2 Senior Recital: H. Keith Jackson 
bone). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p-1*1, 
Feb. 2 The Five. Pittsburgh Film-Makers. 
Plaza Theater, 4765 Liberty Ave., Bloomf*c 
p.m. 681-5449.
Feb. 3 The Backdoors. Stanley Showcase1 
Feb. 4 Senior Recital: Chad Cognata (* 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m. , 
Feb. 7 Student Recital: Charles Cudney(fU, 
nium). Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 
Feb. 18. Si Kahn 8c Cathy Fink. Kresge A* 
Carlow Coll., 3333 Fifth Ave., Oakland 8P
