The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 25, May 5, 1981.
Robbery victims identify 
thief; chase proves futile
Membeis of CIA gather shortly after the Sweepstakes Sunday. Their buggy, Black Magic, 
not only won Sweepstakes 1981, but set a course record by covering the .8 mile course in 
2.10.5. Team members from left to right, are Avi Orenstein, (hill one), Joe Goldchamp (hill 
two), Jow Usoff (hill three), John Woolridge (hill four), Jay Loomes (hill five) and Chari 
Heim (driver), in front.
by Alice Alfonsi
A suspect has been identified by four 
CMU students in the recent Donner Hall 
burglaries. Pittsburgh Police have since 
issued three outstanding warrants for the 
arrest of the suspect on counts of burglary, 
receiving stolen property, and criminal 
trespassing.
Pittsburgh Police made an unsuccessful 
attempt to arrest the suspect last Thursday. 
After a short car chase, the suspect aban
doned his powder blue Dodge Dart and dis
appeared on foot in the Hill District area. 
Inside the car, the police found a battered 
jewelry' box, a gold ring, an earring, and a 
gold ornament. On Friday, the items were 
varified as the stolen property belonging to 
two CMU students who had their room 
burglarized.
The identification of the suspect, accord
ing to CMU police Chief Charles West
brooks was done by a photo ray' which 
involves spotting a suspects photograph 
among many other photos. The man identitiecl has been arrested for burglary in 1980 
and has a record of past arrests. He is alsoenate agrees to fund Sweepstakes '81
wanted by Chatham Police, and similar 
reports are coming in from Duquesne 
University.
Westbrooks noted that the Pittsburgh 
Police, especially officers Pisowiscz and 
Dougherty of the Pittsburgh burglary squad 
have been successfully working with campus police to solve the April burglaries. 
About $9000 in jewelry had been stolen.
Die alleged $708 worth of jewelry stolen 
from a girl in Morewood D tower repoiied 
last week was mistaken. All of die jewelry 
was found in a bathroom in D tower.
During April, three burglaries had 
occurred on the first floor of Donners 
womens wing. Some $9000 in jewelry' had 
been stolen. In connection with the three 
burglaries, several sightings of an unknown 
young black male had been made by various 
students.
New meningitis 
case confirmed
A second case of meningitis was 
confirmed last Sunday at CMU. Kevin 
Edison, a sophomore in Electrical 
Engineering, is being treated at Shadyside
Seymour told to pay $50 by disciplinary board
by Jennifer Hutton
Representatives from several organiza
tions involved in Sweepstakes 81 applauded 
after student senate appropriated $525 for 
last Sundays buggy races. The motion to 
grant the funds was unanimously passed 
after finance committee chairman, Richard 
Hanusek, explained that the money was 
needed to pay for electricity, haybales, and 
police. In other finance news, the Commu
ter Club was allocated $150 in order to print 
a pamphlet for incoming freshmen.
At last Tuesdays meeting, Senator Andy 
Stahl (H&SS) presented a resolution that 
recommends that the administration consider borrowing funds against the endow
ment for capital improvements in the 
housing system.
Dean of Student Affairs and Ex-Officio 
member of student senate, Earle Swank, 
urged that the appropriate senate committee 
study Stahls motion. Swank stated that the 
university had previously obtained H.U.D. 
loans at an interest rate of three percent and 
that endowment money would be borrowed 
at a rate of nine to ten percent. When asked if 
the administration would be willing to lend 
money to Housing at less than the prime 
rate, Swank responded that the university is 
not willing to lose money.
Election impostor loses
In rules committee news, the senate by
laws were amended by a vote of 22-0-3. The 
aim of this amendment is to, require more 
signitures on petitions for the office of the 
treasurer and to reclarify the term of the 
treasurers office. and reads as follows:
Amendment of Bylaws
Amend Section II B of Election Procedure 
to read the following: Petitions for the posi
tion of Treasurer shall be made available the 
Tuesday following Spring Student Govern
ment elections and the existing treasurer 
shall serve until the election for the position 
of treasurer once again takes place; two 
weeks after petitions are due.
A second motion to amend the bylaw scc Me tin ued on page 5
Hospital.
Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, 
stated in a memo Sunday that Thus far we 
have been unable to establish any connec
tion between this case and the tragic case 
that resulted in the death of a student on 
April 13. The strain of the disease, however, 
is the same.
Because a second occurrence of meningi
tis in the same population is unusual, the 
Allegheny County Health Department has 
resumed testing and preventative treatment. 
Anyone who has had close personal contact 
with Edison, who lives off campus, should 
report to the County Health Department 
for testing. Close personal contact includes
continued cm page 6
by Jennifer Hutton
ITie University Disciplinary Committee 
(LDC) upheld the decision of the election 
board to fine John Seymour, a sophomore, 
fifty dollars. The election board charged 
Seymour, campaign manager for Franklin 
Reese, with being involved with Tom Mc
Carthys attempt to portray Reese at the sen
ate presidential debates.
Hie UDC board was composed of two 
students, two faculty members, and was 
moderated by Dr. Edward Schotz, Vice-Pre
sident and Provost.
rhomas Kerr, CMU professor and practi
cing lawyer, represented Seymour at last 
1 hursdays UDC trial. Kerr maintained that 
Seymour could not be charged with Ruk\ 
8-5 of the senate bylaws. This rule states 
Any act by a candidate or his supporters 
which compromises the conduct of a fair 
election will result in disciplinary action by 
election board subject to the approval by
the UDC. 
Kerr stated that B-5 is a catch all rule and 
consequently void by its vagueness. He also 
objected to the fact that a specific penalty 
was listed for every other rule governing the 
student senate elections except for Rule B-5. 
Kerr stated that persons charged with B-5 are 
left up to the whim and caprice of election 
board members.
The lawyer representing the prosecuting 
election board, John Myers, rebutted Kerrs 
lengthy argument in less than ten minutes. 
Myers maintained that B-5 was not ambigu
ous and that it is perfectly clear what it 
means to compromise a fair election.
Despite Kerrs well prepared defense, after 
approximately fifteen minutes of closed con
sultation, the UDC. board decided to uphold 
the election boards decision.
Kerr stated that his client plans to appeal 
the UDC decision.
John Seymours $50 fine for participating in the senate electionimpostor episode was up
held Thursday. Left to Right are Seymour, his counsel, Thomas Kerr, and Dr. Edward 
Schotz, Disciplinary Committee moderator.

---------------------------------------------------

EdHnrial.________^ : ./A
The Tartan presents thistles and thorns for Spring
The campus is in bloom, and the Tartan delivers its annual bouquets of thistles and thorns. If we missed you this year, dont worry, we will get you next time around.
A blossoming thistle to the Students Dormitory Council. Mark Marsel la and the SDC are rapidly becoming this campus most responsive representative organization. The SDCs role in the negotiations with Housing and Food Service has been widely neglected-it should not have been.
The Thistle of hope to Mel Shapiro. After many lean years, the drama department is regaining some of its reknown. Mr. Shapiros inspirational, no-nonsense persona is lately reponsible.
An All-American thistle to Dario Donatelli and the fabulous CMU track team.
A threatening thorn to Phil Millers prefab Pascal grading system. A classic example of a course designed with failure in mind. Its all too final.
The Thom of Despair to Dean Crecine and doctor Young for making 18 sincerely motivated students feel like common rabblerousers.
\A thistle for CIA for being the first non-Greek organization to win the buggy competition. For ZBT for ending SAEs reign of Greek Sing.
A thistle to the Thistle for actually getting the yearbook to seniors before theyre too old to remember.
A thorn to Senate for giving The Tartan $420 to sunbathe in Florida, and a bigger thorn for giving themselves a lavish night of wining and dining pleasure.
A chronic thorn for the Architecture Department for creating problems where few exist.
A rancid thorn to Marriott Swiss Cheese Croquettes, Navy Bean Stroganoff, Cheese Fondue, Navy Bean Casserole, Navy Beans and Onions, Navy Bean Croquettes, Navy Bean Goulash with onions and garnish and Navy Bean Cheesecake.
Assorted thistles to: Jim Hoburg, Deans Swank and Cox, the Academic Advisory Center, the Escort Service, the Nobel Laureates.
Assorted thorns to: Physical Plant, Entropy, and the Gazebo. The City of Pittsburgh for being such jerks about the Margaret Morrison Storefront situation. The people who talk during movies in DH2210.
letters_____.___________, ______-
The battle of the activities bulge: Students versus Senate
The chairman of Student Senate, Bob Holste, responds to Fred Crawford: Take the time to listen.
Editor.
This letter is a response to Mr. Crawfords 
letter of 4/28 that accused Student Senate of 
negligence in funding Tartan coverage of 
the Space Shuttle launch.
There are several major points in Mr. 
Crawfords letter that we would like to 
address. First Senate is very careful, even 
stingy in doling out the Activities Fee, as
The newest senate fiasco
Editor:
I would like to respond to student senator 
Laurie Elms letter to the editor that 
appeared in last weeks Tartan. Her letter 
criticized the financial generosity of the 
Senates appropriation of $490 of the stu
dents money to thank itself by holding a 
dinner at the posh, Grand Concourse restau
rant. I admire Miss Elms personal integrity 
for forfeiting her nice din-din.
But the issue as a whole merely seems to 
further illustrate yet another example of the 
irresponsible spending of the student senate. 
I am appalled first at the size of the tab that 
you and I must pick up for these gourmet 
loving individuals. Second, I am dumb
founded that these people think so highly of 
themselves (and think so little of our money) 
that they are giving themselves a very- vigor
ous $490 pat on the back.
It is my opinion that student senators are 
elected to help the student body, if they dont 
want to help us, the students whom they 
represent, then they shot'.Id resign imme
diately. This $490 self allocation, to me, 
represents a feeling that student senators 
serve in order to help themselves.
The student senate blows a few hundred 
dollars on this fiasco, a few hundred dollars 
on that fiasco. Add $490 to the list. I would 
like to know when the student senate as a 
whole will start looking out for the interests 
of the student body as a whole rather than 
continuing to tend to the interests of small 
groups and themselves.
Did your senator have the personal integ
rity of Laurie Elm, or did he/she pick your 
pocket again? How did your senator vote?
Fred Crawford
anyone who has ever applied for money can 
tell you
Now as to the Tartan allocation, this year 
the Tartan had a substiantial surplus. Of 
this surplus over $1700.00 was withdrawn 
and returned to the Master Student Account 
to relieve part of their long term debt. It was 
trom that part of the surplus that was not 
withdrawn that the $400.00 for the Shutde 
trip was taken.
Understand that this money wasnt just 
given to the Tartan at first request. Senate 
demanded that the Tartan develop a CMU 
twist for the story in order to justify the trip. 
The Tartan agreed, and worked hard to line 
up interviews with CMU alumni involved 
in the Shutde program). Interviews which 
were sure all of you saw in the Shuttle 
supplement.
We think that Senate made the right deci
sion retiring part of the Tartan surplus, and 
allowing the Tartan to spend part of it. If
Editor
Having read Fred Crawfords previous 
tw'o error-ridden letters, I feel it necessary to 
make a response. In terms of general facts: 1) 
The Tartan sent three, not two, people to 
cover the Space Shutde. 2) The total cost of 
the trip ended up being only about $370. 3) 
The money came out of the Tartans 
surplusmeaning that only about half of 
it came from the Activities Fee (the other 
half came from our advertising). 4) The trip 
was anything but a junket, unless you 
consider driving 20 hours straight (twice) 
fun. x
But these are minor points. Everyone, 
even Crawford, makes mistakes. The crucial 
point concerns what the student body has in 
the budgetting decisions of the campus 
organizations.
The Activities Fee generates about 
$250,000 each year. As with the revenue your 
tax money generates, the individual has very 
little control where it is spent. Of course, this 
is the way it must be, because the individual 
can never know enough about the intricate 
workings of all of the organizations to make* 
good budgeting decisions for all of them
you do not reward an organization that has 
scrimped on their budget, or worked hard to 
bring in extra income to enjoy the benefits of 
part of the surplus, we would never have 
surplusses. After all, what organization is 
going to scrimp or work hard for a surplus 
^only to have the surplus taken away from 
them}?
Finally, as to Mr. Crawfords charge that 
he was given a bunch of double talk at the 
Senate meeting, I (Bob Holste) take tre
mendous offense at that charge. It is true 
that Mr. Crawford was inundated with var
ious facts and figures at the Senate meeting. 
People with experience in dealing with fig
ures often have a tendency to do that. HOW
EVER, I personally (Bob Holste) called Mr. 
Crawford after the Senate meeting because I 
was afraid that he didnt get the information 
he was looking for. I spent a good twenty 
minutes explaining every aspect of thie Shut
tle allocation to him, and Senates general
In the light of this, I question what Craw
ford is trying to do. After he has stopped the 
Tartan from buying a piece of equipment 
that he doesnt feel is necessary, will he tell 
the Hockey Club how many pucks thay can 
buy? His attempt at controlling the Tartans 
spending, if successful, would not have been 
reflected in a decrease in his (or anyone 
elses) Activities Fee. It would simply have 
been monetarily-applied censorship.
However, actions speak louder than 
words. Before Crawford had ever started 
bitching about the waste of his 4C on the 
Shuttle trip, the Tartan had voluntarily 
reduced their subsidy from the Activities Fee 
by $15,586.
If Crawford were more aware of what was 
going on around him, and if he took some 
time to find out he facts before he started 
complaining, then perhaps he would realize 
that his precious money isnt being wasted 
by the spendthrift campus organizations.  
But some things are too much too ask for.
Robert Zusman 
Managing Editor, The Tartan 
Physics, 82
policy in dealing with surplusses.
If he still felt he didnt know what was
 going on its because he simply didnt go 
the trouble to ask. He certainly had every 
opportunity to do so, after all, I didnt call 
him for my health.
Perhaps next time Mr. Crawford com
plains about being mislead or "double 
talked hell actually take the time to listen 
to what people tell him, and not just go off 
half-cocked shooting his mouth off. I for 
one am certainly underwhelmed by his atti
tude to date, and will .think carefully about 
taking the time to explain things to him in 
the future. Nothing you can say seems to 
phase him in the slightest.
Sign us UNJUSTLY ACCUSED, 
Bob Holste, Chairman 
Student Senate 
Rich Hanusek, Chairman 
Finance Committee
Editor-in-Chief.......................Richard Gorelick
Associate Editor................................Bob Leighty
Managing Editor.........................Robert Zusman
Business Manager...........................Linda Hetrick
Asst. Business Manager........Pam Shugerman
News Editor.............................Jennifer Hutton
Asst News Editors...........................Alice Alfonsi
Monica Gellio
Features Editor...............  Maureen Brennan
Asst Features Editor................Kathy Krummert
Entertainment Editor......................Adam Lauzar
Sports Editor....................................Gregg Bossier
Dossier Editor ..................................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editors..............Chuck Qiidekel
Doug Ellis
Contributing Editors ................. Jim Balsom
Sue Borg 
Doug Kirsop
Production Manager.................... Vince Guinto
Production Staff...................................Bob Harr
Mark Shelton
Copyright c 1981 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right Co withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices. 
Ski bo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
How closely should campus groups be monitored?

---------------------------------------------------

May 5, 1981The TartanPage 3letters________________
Paul Kameens parting words
Editor:
I have followed with some interest the 
recent debate in this column about the cur
rent state of the English Department. I have 
been especially intrigued by the various ren
ditions of my peculiar histoiy here. Though 
my personal fate, having long since been 
decided, is only a peripheral issue in this 
whole matter, I want to thank the 18 Eng
lish majors who signed the first letter (I still 
do not know who most of them are) for 
presenting the most accurate version of my 
circumstances and credentials^ and for the 
genoristy with which they portrayed me. 
More importantly, I want to commend 
them for their insight, initiative, and inde
pendence they showed in formulating, pres
enting and defending their argument about 
deficiencies in the English curriculum. 
That they have been charged with irrespon> sible research, bad analysis, and conspratorial dealings with some imaginary faculty 
sponsor is unfortunate. For such responses 
only serve to obscure the real issue: the 
obvious erosion of an authentic disciplinary 
curriculum in the English Department.
As I see it, the point is not now, asnd never 
has been, whether the English Department 
can or should consider rhetoric as one of its 
integral aspects. Of course it can, and of 
course it should. But for that to work, rhet toric must first be conceived as just that- an
integral aspect of English studies. When I 
came here four years ago, I was excited to 
find a faculty that appreciated and a curricu
lum that supported the fundamental inter
relatedness among literary, rhetorical and 
creadve studies. Yet now, at the very time 
when other English departments are begin
ning to recognize the wisdom of that vision 
and are moving to ameliorate the fragmentation of their faculties and programs, we at 
CMU are factionalizing our discipline into 
anachronistic specializations; for each of 
which we need to bring in a faculty with 
really sophisticated credentials. This pro
cess has, in fact, engendered a kind of poli
ticization in our department. But that 
politicization has come, in my view, from 
the top down:-not the bottom up-as a direct 
result of administrative decisions explicitly 
designed to develop some aspects of the cur
riculum at the expense of others. Any 
attempt to defend these less privileged pro
grams becomes, then, by definition, a politi
cal radier than an intellectual expression.
In the face of such a conundrum, itis both 
difficult and risky to raise a dissenting voice. 
I understand the frustration the students 
must be feeling in their efforts to keep the 
real issues clearly in focus and the discussion 
somewhere in the realm of substantive 
negotiation.
Sincerely, 
Paul Kameen
One last plea for a Senior Gift
Editor:
Fellow Members of the Senior Class:
We are wriung this letter to clarify several 
aspects of the Senior Class Gift. Based on the 
feedback from numerous seniors, there is 
much misunderstanding about the project. 
Hopefully, these points will help you 
understand our purpose.
* 1) CMU has its share of apathy. We hope the 
Senior Class of 1981 could TRY to do some
thing positive for the university.
2) At the time the committee met, we did not 
have sufficient time to poll the entire class 
for gift suggestions.
3) The gift is not simply wooden benches 
stuck in the ground. It is an entire beautifica
tion project which will also include lands. raping and shubbery. The amount of 
pledges we receive will determine the extent
* of the beautification effort. As far as vandal
ism is concerned, benches can be destroyed 
as easily as library books can be ripped off. 
We only hope that future students will have 
respect for university property.
4) If this gift does not appeal to you, you
may return your pledge card specifying 
where youd like your money to be used.
5) You dont have to pledge the entire $85. 
There is room on the pledge card for you to 
specify your desired pledge and payment 
schedule.
6) If you are still dissatisfied, please feel free 
to send your comments to the Development 
Office, Fifth Floor Warner Hall. We will 
appreciate your feedback.
Many seniors feel that this gift will not 
direcdy benefit them in any way. You may 
never actually utilize the gift, but many 
future classes will. It is with our effort that 
the tradidon of the Senior Class Gift be 
renewed.
We hope this will answer any quesdons 
you may have had. Will you please recon
sider your part in our Senior Class Gift?
Sincerely, 
Lynne Koupal 
President, SARC 
Candi Sheffield 
Senior Gift Committee 
P.S. See you May 18!
This is
The Last Issue
of the Tartan this 
semester
Good Luck 
cm Finals!
THE POWER OF THE PRESS 
(<n. NOTHING- IS SACRED/)
Gerald Dalton was a scapegoat
Editor:
As students who have worked in the 
Housing Office we feel it is necessary to set 
the record straight. The thank you given 
to Mr. Mayer and Dr. Van Horn for their 
responsiveness to the students, should have 
gone to Gerald W. Dalton, Director of 
Housing. In January , Mr. Dalton submitted 
proposed housing rates for 1981-82. The 
increase for the Roselawn Houses was 11%. 
When the information returned from Mr. 
Mayers office the increase was 23%. Only 
when SDC raised a question were the rates 
lowered to a 14.7% increase. Until the date 
the rates had to go to print, the Housing 
Office was under the impression the average 
increase would be 7%. Dr. Van Horn that 
day made the decision to increase them to 
10%. Is Mr. Dalton to be blamed for the high 
housing rates? The poor maintenance in 
housing has been a concern of Mr. Dalton 
and he has continually asked for more staff. 
Since last August there has been one super
visor and five maintenance men to cover the
40 housing faciliues, 24 hours a day, seven 
days a week. Common sense tells that more 
help is needed. The answer from Warner 
Hall was we plan a change. Now 9 
months later Physical Plant takes over 
maintenance and they get the extra man
power needed.
As usual, Mr. Dalton is taking the heat for 
administering a division where decisions are 
made by people who are unaware of the 
needs or the consequence of their policies.
The most unprofessional act committed 
by Mr. Mayer and Dr. Van Horn is the way 
Mr. Dalton heard of his dismissal  
through rumors from a student. When Mr. 
Dalton on that Friday afternoon tried to find 
out if it was true, he could not get a direct 
answer but was called at home on Saturday 
to be told he was being asked to step down.
We think the University is milking a grave 
mistake in not keeping someone in the 
Housing Office who has been in the profes
sion over 12 years. Mr. Dalton has been head 
of the Housing Office for the past four years
 a record fir CMU who has had 14 direc
tors in the past 15 years! Once again the 
upper administration is making a decision 
without understanding the problems which 
exist in housing because they will not com
municate with the Director. We believe that 
Gerald Dalton has done an excellent job 
under very adverse conditions and we want 
to say thank you.
Pam Eldridge 
Joan Larson
Sorry WRCT couldnt be there
Editor:
I would like to publically apologize and 
ask campus understanding for WRCTs 
inability to broadcast the rescheduled sweep
stakes this (last) Sunday. I realize that our 
presence helps in communications in pro
viding the air of excitement.
I would not like to make this a list of 
excuses, but our decision not to air was 
based on limitations of available equip
ment, funding, and our student staff.
I believe, our broadcast is somewhat of a 
technical accomplishment. Ive been 
acuvely planning since November. We use 
14 broadcasters, around a mile and a half of 
cable, and over 400 watts of audio power. 
Since much of our equipment would have 
to be required, production of a Sunday 
broadcast would have been a minor miracle.
It is with much regret that we werent able 
to go forward with our plans to broadcast 
die rescheduled races.
I would like to thank May, Sheila, and 
Mike for their limitless help, but especially 
to all the broadcasters and organizations
that have made die last four years of Buggy 
broadcasting possible. Watch for WRCT 
next year.
Sincerely, 
Kirk Klingensmith 
WRCT Chairman of Spring Carnival
Say something
Editor
The case of Franklin Reese, John Sey
mour and the imposter at the Senate election 
debates continues. Much has been said con
cerning this issue and Im sure its not over 
yet.
Perhaps the students involved in die 
imposter issue were not correct on the way 
they went about things but in their defense I 
must say diat at least they got involved. It 
might be said that their means of doing 
things was a little bit different, but at k-ast 
theyre doing something.
Christine Kiel/

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMay 5, 1981
Carnegie Institute lecture series
Asimov speaks on future
v photo by Robert Zusman
Dr Isaac Asimov spoke on Man by the year 2000* last Friday as part of the Carnegie 
Institute Man and Ideas series.
by Monica J. Cellio
Dr. Isaac Asimov, renowned scientist and 
author, spoke to a capacity crowd in the 
Carnegie Institute Music Hall on the topic 
Man by the Year 2000 last Friday. His 
lecture was part of the Man and Ideas 
series sponsored by Carnegie Institute and 
the Westinghouse Corporation.
Asimov began by stating that humanity 
stands at a crossroads. This has always 
been true, according to Asimov, but never 
before has the crossroad been so critical. He 
stated that never before has man had the 
capacity to destroy civilization; jjie wrong 
choices could bring on a dark age far worse 
than any in the past. Historically, dark ages 
have always been localized, and those who 
are not affected are the ones who pulled the
Fulton receives 
Engineering award
by Carrie Woemer
Steve Fulton, a recent CIT graduate, was 
presented last week with the Taij Beta Pi 
award in Engineering for outstanding aca
demic achievement. Fulton is one of twenty 
nationwide graduates to receive this award.
The monetary' award of $4,700 is given on 
the basis of the students grades and extra
curricular activities. An essay concerning 
how the student intends to use the award to 
further the Engineering field is also 
considered.
The award, which is renewable, must be 
used for graduate education. Fulton, who 
graduated last December, will attend Har
vard Law School in the fall.
others out of the problems. But, Asimov 
pointed out, if we have a dark age now, no 
one will be left to pull us out-it will be 
world-wide. If we destroy this technology, 
we will not be able to start again from 
scratch.
Asimov stated that we must be careful of 
our decisions if civilization is to survive to 
the 21st century. If we are careful enough, 
Asimov claims, we can pass beyond the pos
sibility of breakdown.
According to Asimov, One of our biggest 
problems is increasing population. We will 
soon outweigh the earthy support capacity, 
and already we are pressing hard against 
the limits. Asimov believes that the femi
nist movement will help limit population 
growth; working women will enable us to 
 double our brainpower without doubling 
the population, according to the scientist.
Moving out
In order to combat the problems of 
increasing population, Asimov sees the 
world moving out into space in the future. 
Asimov forsees space settlements, solar 
energy stations, and possibly even nuclear 
centers. The moon alone contains most of 
the resources we would need; the only ele
ments not there are carbon, nitrogen, and 
hydrogen.
An entire civilization in space is what we 
will eventually have, according to Asimov. 
But, he states, it is necessary to be clearly en 
route by the year 2000, or we will be clearly 
en route to the destruction of world 
civilization.
Moving out, Asimov claims, will solve 
the problem of war. No one nation wall be 
able to bring about these changes; the world 
will have to work together. The U.S. cant
save its own portion, Asimov said, if the 
rest erf the world goes to hell. We are all in 
the same boat, and at the moment its leak
ing. According to Asimov, moving out will 
be the first great deed of humanity for its 
owti sake. As a result, the world will be less 
localized, and war will be much less likely. 
Currently, Asimov said, the world spends 
400 billion dollars per year on weapons and 
soldiers, but, he warned, if this trend is not 
reversedif we do not stop and instead 
work toward survival--we will perish.
Once we, begin to move out, there is no 
limit to where we can go, Asimov stated. 
Fhe space settlements will become new
worlds, and when we are able to build large 
settlements we wont mind being in space 
for years.
Occupying asteroids
Before the end of the 21st century, Asimov 
feels, we will be occupying the asteroids, and 
the majority of the human race will be out 
in space. People can go off in their own 
little worlds, and they will not be leaving 
home but rather taking home with them. 
Small groups of people who are compatible
with each other will live together and 
develop a unique culture.
According to Asimov, this is not a new 
idea. From ancient times, people have 
continued on page 5
Movie: The Sting 
When: Wed., May 6 
Times: 6, 8, 10, 12 p.m.
Sponsored by Baseball Club
Funded by Student Senate
Agenda
Student Senate Meeting May 5, 1981
I. Call to Older at 6:30 p.m. in the Whemett Room
II. Call of the Roll
III. Approval of the Minutes 
IV. Audience Participation
V. Officers Reports
Dean Swank-Administration 
Bob Holste-Senate Chairman 
Steve Smith-President 
Mark Marsella-SDC 
Matt Mathis--GSO 
Ron Clelland--UFO
VI. Committee Reports 
Rules-General Information
Academic Affairs-A resolution by Alexandra Kavoukalis calling on the 
University to purchase an additional TOPS 20 system to relieve excess demand
on the current system.
G.C&I.-A motion for Student Senate to endorse the statement of 
Residents Rights as prescribed by the University committee on panetals 
Finance-Funding for Kiltie Band, Scotch n Soda, and the Thistle. Also, 
funding for a letter describing Senate to incoming freshmen for insertion in 
the SARC packet, and money for new suggestion boxes for'Senate.
V II. Old Business-None
VIII. New Business-Aresolution sponsored by Bob Holste, Mark Fisher,and 
Ed Novak expressing Senates thanks for the gn at assistance given this year by 
Deans Swank and Cox to the Senate and the schools students.
IX. General Discussion 
X. Announcements 
XI. Adjournment

---------------------------------------------------

May 5, 1981The TartanPage 5
 .  16 inducted into Beta Beta Beta
On Wednesday, April 22, sixteen under
graduate biology majors were inducted as 
charter members into the Department of 
Biological Sciences Phi Beta Chapter of Beta 
Beta Beta, a National Honor and Profes
sional Society for students of Biological 
Sciences. The students are: Mark Andrake, 
John Bare, Lauren Black, Keith Bupp, 
Steven Garlow, Ronald Godiska, Mark H( 
podar, Paul Kami in, Aaron Katz, Robert 
Nolte, Robert Reid, Suzanne Sprunger, 
John Streiff, Julie Wiberg, Elizabeth Woo 
and Curtis Yeske. The counselor for the 
chapter is Eric Grotzinger.
To be elected as a member, the students 
must have the folowing qualifications: a) be 
an undergraduate major in Biological 
Sciences, b) shall have completed at least one 
. term of the second year of a four year curric
ulum, c) shall have completed at least three 
term courses in Biological Sciences with an 
average grade of B, and d) shall b in good 
academic standing.
The installation of the new chapter was 
held in the Mellon Institute Social Room. 
Following this ceremony a banquet was 
held in the Faculty Dining Room in Skibo 
Hall. Thirty-five Biology majors attended 
the banquet. The after dinner speaker was 
Dr. Gerald Levey, Chaiman of the Depart
ment of Medicine at the University of Pitts
burgh, who spoke on Forecast of the 
Biomedical Sciences in the 1980V
The Phi Beta Chapter of Tri Beta hopes 
to offer to its members activities and expe
riences that will enrich and extend their edu
cation in biology.
Beta Beta Beta members, left to right, are Mark Andrake, Paul Karmin, Mark Hospodar, Robert Reid, Curtis Yeske, Elizabeth Woo, Robert Nolte, Suzanne Sprunger, 
John Streiff, Keith Bupp. Julie Wiberg, John Bare, Steve Garlow,Aaron Katz, and 
Eric Groteinger. Not pictured: Lauren Black, Ronald Godiska.
Did you know?: Two English professors named Danforths
Biology majors honored
by Maureen Brennan
Lynne Barrett, and Jean Carr, assistant pro| fessors in the English Department, were 
I recently appointed Danforth Associates.
I The appointment is in honor of their dedi
cation to teaching and their ability to work 
' directly with students on a one-to-one basis.
Danforth Foundation is a national educa
tional philanthropy whose goal is the 
improvement of the quality of education. 
Lynne Barrett, who received an M.F,A. from 
the University of North Carolina at Greens
boro, has been at CMU since 1976. Jean 
Carr, who received a Ph.D. from the Univer
sity of Michigan, has been at CMU since 
1977.
Daniel Berg, Dean of Mellon College of 
Science and Professor of Science and Tech
nology, has been named provost for 
 research, science and technology. As proAmendment
continued from page 1
one that would require candidates to attend 
one meeting prior to their election-was sent 
back into the rules committee after Dave 
Oslag, rules committee chairman, stated 
that he thought the motion needed to be 
reconsidered. Oslag also encouraged inter
ested SUPA students to send in election 
petitions.
In his officers report, Student Senate Pres
ident Steve Smith, stated that he had spoken 
to Dr. Richard Van Horn, Senior Vice Presi
dent, about the recent on-campus burglarvost, he will be responsible for CIT, MCS, 
Mellon Institute, and CMUs Continuing 
Education Program.
Before joining CMU as science dean in 
1977, Berg had been Manager of the Energy 
Systems Research Division and Technical 
Director of Uranium Resources for Westinghouse. As Dean of MCS, he has been instru
mental in establishing the Robotics 
Institute, and expanding the Computer 
Science Department. He received his M.S. 
and Ph.D. from Yale Univ., and is a director 
of EIA, Inc., Argonne Associated Universi
ties, Lubrizol Corp. and Lord Corp.
Theodore Weesner, novelist and short 
story writer, has been appointed associate 
professor of creative writing at CMU. His 
first novel, The Car Thief, received the 
Great L^akes Writers Prize in 1972 and was a 
selection of the Book of the Month Club. It 
was later translated into German and Japanese and published in England.
Weesners second novel was The German 
Affair; his short fiction has appeared in The 
New Yorker, Esquire, Saturday Evening 
Post, The Atlantic Monthly, and in Martha 
Foleys Best American Short Stories. A non
fiction novel, At Large, is due for publica
tion in 1982. Weesner, who taught creative 
writing at the Univ. of New Hampshire, 
received his masters degree from the Univ. 
of Iowa, Writers Workshop. He came to 
CMU in 1980 as writer-in-residence.
John Murray, a junior in electrical engi
neering, received the $5,000 James M. Patter
son Award. Given annually by the Sargent 
Electric Company of Pittsburgh, the award 
goes to the outstanding junior electrical 
engineering student, as determined by the 
faculty. Selection is based on initiative, par
ticipation, projects, and effectiveness within 
the department.
proposed, thefts discussed
ies. Smith suggested that additional desk 
assistants be hired to watch the Donner and 
Morewood Gardens desks 24 hours per day 
and Van Horn concurred. Student Dormi
tory Council President and Ex-Officio 
member of senate, Mark Marsella, stated 
that he did not feel that the safety of these 
dorms would improve as the result of a day 
watch because these dorms have side entran
ces. Marsella encouraged students to lock 
their doors.
Dean Swank asked for student representa
tives to serve on committees with the Board
of Trustees, Thomas Michalak, director of 
campus libraries, and a search committee for 
a new housing director. Interested students 
should contact Swank.
The last student senate meeting of the 
school year will be held this evening at 6:30 
p.m. in the Wherrett Room of Skibo
Douglas H. Wilson, a professor of an at 
CMU for almost a quarter of a century, died 
Tuesday, April 28, in West Penn Hospital. 
A native of Scotland, Wilson resided in Oak
land. He was a graduate of the School of Art 
Institute of Chicago and previously taught 
lithography and design there and at Syra
cuse University. He was a member of the 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art.
A Douglas H. Wilson Memorial Award 
has been established in the art department.
Making for a rich 
civilization
continued from page 4
moved out to cover the earth, and the people 
of ancient Greece and Rome would have 
been as skeptical of a description of our 
current world as some people are now of the 
space age future. Asimov feels that moving 
out makes for a richer civilization.
For millions of years, from the Big Bang 
to the present, man has been evolving and 
improving. Who is to say it will stop with 
us? Asimov feels that we will help each other 
and advance knowledge. In the future, there 
will be, he stated, a vast brotherhood of 
intelligence of which we might be a part. 
This, Asimov stated, is the future we face, 
if we make the right decisions.
iRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO - 
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
'OriginalHOT 00G
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. M0LS0N ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS ANO SEHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oi. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH OUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL * AW 
HOT DOG*  CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONOIMENTS 
15 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
BECKS LIGHT OR 0ARK 
Germany
CARLSBURG MALI 
Denmark
OORT HANSA Germany 
H0FBRAU Germany 
FISCHER GOLD France 
HOLSTER LAGER Germany 
ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
SPATEN Germany 
RIGNES SPECIAL Norway 
SWAN LAGER Australia 
BASS ALE England
HOT 0GSCL IZC*Z
England 
' 10WENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England 
 ?ILSNER URQUELL 
Czechoslovakia 
- RIGNES Norway 
' DOS EQUIS Mtnco 
' PERONI Hal
 GUINESS STOUT Ireland 
GROLSCHE Holland '
GOSSER Austria 
' SAN MIGUEL Phillpmes 
' KIRIN Japan 
M0LS0N ALE Canada 
KRAKUS Poland 
HEINEKE LT A OK Holland 
 FOSTER S LAGER Australia AND MANY OTHERS
HOT 00G SHOPS INC 621 *7388 or 621 -11 853901 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) POH., PA. 13213
Peace Corps and VISTA Volunteers
For information contact a recruiter, Mon.- 
Fri., 9-5pm: U.S.Customs House, Rm. 102A,
2nd & Chestnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19106 
Toll Free 800 462-1589 Ext. 66.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMay 5, 1981
Symptoms listed
CMU seeks outside assistance
continued from page 1
sexual or any type of oral contact.
In addition, anyone with symptoms 
which could be associated with meningitis 
should seek treatment immediately. These 
symptoms include sudden onset of severe 
headaches, stiffness of the neck and 
shoulders, rashes, high fever, and chills. The 
symptoms usually occur in pairs.
The Student Health Service in Morewood 
D-Tower has resumed its extended schedule 
and will now remain open unul 8:00 p.m. 
each night. The Emergency' Room at Shadyside Hospital will see students with symp
toms when the Health Service is closed.
llie University has sought the assistance 
of the County Health Department and 
faculty from the University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine in an effort to make sure 
that no element of the CMU environment is 
unwittingly serving to spread the disease. If 
necessary, staff from the U.S. Department of 
Health Center for Disease Control in 
Atlanta, Georgia, will be contacted for 
assistance.last Week the Freshman Design class staged an Enfluttlement on the grounds between 
Baker and Doherty Hall. The display consisted of 52 muld colored flags on 10-foot flagpoles
Why do outstanding 
systems programmers
work in Bellevue,WA?
Microsoft.
Microsoft develops 
the leading edge in micro
computer systems soft
ware. Our BASIC is world 
renowned. Our new 
XENIX* OS, the micro
computer adaptation of 
the UNIX* OS, has com
puter companies and 
others chomping at the 
bit. We design state of the 
art system software.
And, we need pro
grammers to work on Data 
Base Systems, FORTRAN, 
BASIC, COBOL, Pascal,
C, Compilers, Graphics, 
Networks, and many other 
projects.
Our OEM customer 
base is a Who s Who of the 
hardware business (Apple,
Radio Shack, Texas Instru
ments, Intel, Tektronix).
As new hardware is devel
oped (8086, Z8000,68000 
microprocessor systems), 
Microsofts programmers 
get their hands on the 
machines before they go 
into production. So your 
hardware suggestions and 
software innovations 
during R&D become part 
of the final product.
Microsoft provides the 
best systems program
ming work environment:
 all the high-level 
hardware (DEC 2020 
and 11/70 develop
ment systems) and 
software develop
ment tools youll 
need, in a
 small company with 
lots of interaction and 
sharing of ideas and 
methods, where
 you can develop 
your full potential.
The Pacific Northwest is 
a great environment too:
 mountains, ocean, 
desert, rain forest, 
rivers and lakes all 
within easy reach.
 major cultural, sports, 
social, and commer
cial activities in 
Seattle, just fifteen 
minutes away.
We are looking for 
outstanding systems pro
grammersthose with 
intelligence, drive, and 
a commitment to excel
lence. We want programmers who will advance 
The Standard in micro
computer software.
Applications may be 
made by resume, atten
tion: Mr. Steve Ballmer, 
Assistant to the President.
*UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories 
XENIX is a trademark of Microsoft
10800 NE Eighth, Suite 819 Bellevue, WA 98004 
206-455-8080
We set the standard.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Art prof records Wounded Knee and Warsaw victims
Prof. Bruce Carters woodcuts are currently 
on display in Israel, New York, Boston, and 
Orlando.
This Indian Womans despair symbolizes 
Carters own feelings about Wounded Knee.
by Maureen Brennan
Several decades after World War II, tiny 
white rain roses grew up through a mortartom helmet outside of Narvik, Norway--a 
cruel reminder of the attack that had des
troyed the city. Bruce Carter, a Fine Arts
professor and an accomplished woodcutter 
and printmaker, came across the helmet 
while in Narvik, and used it in a triptych he 
painted for the govemmeritof Norway. The 
helmet, now mounted on wood, rests in his 
studio in the Fine Arts building.
It is a pretty good statement about the 
futility of war, said Carter. I used it as  
transition symbol in the triptych. The 
painting was the result of a Norwegian 
national competition that Carter won, but 
he is best known in the United States for two 
series of woodcuts. One concerns the 
Wounded Knee massacre, and the other, the 
Warsaw ghetto and its victims.
His Warsaw print show at Tie Jewish 
Museum in New York, exhibited receny to 
correspond with the Yom Hashoah Interna
tional Holocaust Remembrance Day, has 
just been extended one month due to its 
overwhelming success. The Warsaw prints 
are also being displayed at The Ghetto Figh
ters Museum in Israel, where he was invited 
to exhibit for the first international reunion 
of camp survivors and their families since 
World War II.
Carter currently has shows at Loch Haven 
Art Center in Orlando, Florida, and at the 
Boston Printmakers 33rd National Print 
Exhibition. Roto, the Pittsburgh Press Sun
day magazine, recently featured Carters 
work.
During the 1972 winter Olympic Games 
in Sapparo, Japan, Carters prints were 
shown in the Hokkaido Print Association 
Exhibition. Japanese printmakers called 
Carter a barbarian because he prints from 
his woodcuts using a teaspoon, rather than 
with the more scientific printing processes 
of the Japanese masters. They also critized 
his statement against the U.S. government 
displayed in the Wounded Knee woodcuts; 
such artistic commentaries are shunned in 
Japan.
The Wounded Knee prints were triggered 
by a personal reaction of Carters to the My 
Lai massacre in Vietnam. In three weeks, he
carved 12 woodcuts.
People are often surprised when they find 
out that Carter is not Jewish; he is.quick to 
remind them that six million Jews died, but 
five million non-Jews also died in those 
camp.
Look at the way the U.S. treated the 
American Indians. They didnt go about it 
with the same calculated genocide of World 
War II and the Germans, but its all the same 
kind of thing. They gave them blankets 
with smallpox germs deliberately, knowing 
the Indians would die of the disease.
If one generation does not pass this 
along to the next one,theyve committed a 
great injustice. Im trying to do it through 
my artwork. To me its too much risk to 
assume that someone else is taking care of it. 
The winners always write the history books. 
Vietnam was a war we didnt win-a lots 
been swept under the table.
Several of Carters Warsaw woodcuts are 
dedicated to Janusz Korczak, a well known 
Polish pediatrician in pre-war Europe. 
Korczak founded a home for orphans; he 
was the sole provider and protector of about 
300 youngsters. Their care and education 
was his lifes work.,
WTien Korczak received word that the 
children were to prepare for travel to Treblinka, a death camp, he refused to send 
them. He was then told, bring them, or 
well shoot them in their beds.
Korczak prepared the children for a pic
nic; allowing them to dress for the occasion 
and choose one favorite toy to bring along. 
He led the orphans to their death train, 
where a Nazi soldier told him he was free to 
go. But Korczak, fearing for the childrens 
peace of mind, accompanied them to their 
death.
I didnt look at him as a Jewish hero or a 
Polish hero-those are labels people get 
hung up on. I am-impressed with things* 
people have suffered and endured, and gone 
to their graves with their stories untold. Peo
ple didnt know about them, or were too 
selfish to care about it. As a teacher I feel its 
important to convey this to the next genera
tion. The lasting things are the values one 
human being transfers to another.
Since his Warsaw prints have been on 
display in the Jewish Museum in New
Adagio repesents those Warsaw victims 
who wore the yellow triangle, representing 
talent, that saved their lives.
York, he has had even more requests for his 
prints. Many people buy them to put in a 
synagogue because they are too strong to 
hang in ones home. Many of them hang as 
a memoriam to a relative killed in the 
Holocaust.
You survive something like that and 
Vsthink why me? And then you start to feel 
guilty. 
Hans Jonas once said Live your life in 
such a way so that you will be worthy of 
having been created. Carter, who doesnt 
believe in organized religion, lives his life 
according to this principle. Judging by the 
growing demand for prints of his woodcuts, 
Carters images will go on speaking long 
after he is gone.
The My Lai massacre, during the Vietnam War, triggered Carters Wounded Knee woodcuts. The Dark Time is characteristic of the simple horror of the Warsaw woodcuts.

---------------------------------------------------

page 8The TartanMay 5, 1981
Sloppy Joe and Deveraux
Seniors reflect on years of involvement and growth
by David M. Land
There are large portions of ones life 
which are packed away all too well in 
memory. Months and sometimes years are 
inaccessibly stored in long-term memory. 
There are also chunks of time which are 
comfortably, but carelessly jumbled about 
in the mind, which can be picked up at 
random. These provide us with pleasant 
hours of reflection. Scattered about in my 
mind, unsorted, unlabeled, are the thou
sands of memories and bits of memories of 
the something less than thirty-two thousand 
hours Ive passed since September 6, 1977. 
Ill not try to recount any of those hours to 
you. Thats not my aim, and its certainly 
not in your interest, unless youre me, 
which, in the case of me, you are, but in all 
other cases, you arent.
I learned how' to reason like that here at 
CMU. Not in any class, because like much 
else of value, it was learned by living 
amongst creative folks, and not in classes. I 
learned lots of good stuff. I learned how to 
stand on my head and spit nickles. I learned 
how to appear to be learning.
Some of what I learned was important, 
though-tolerance, for example. I arrived 
here a future engineer, ready to civilh or 
electically improve the world. I thought it 
was a valuable goal. Im leaving here a crea
tive and technical writer, ready to clarify 
through my poetry and technical communi
cations, that improved world. I think its a 
valuable goal. I leam tolerance when I can 
consider my current poetic goals and others' 
engineering goals as equally valuable.
In my sophomore and junior years, there 
was a verbal battle between H&rSS and 
CIT MGS. The humanitarians hated the 
nerds, and the well-trained professionals 
hated the all-too liberal artists. As a techni
cal writer, I straddled the issue. A strange 
cross-breed of engineer and artist, I saw the 
values and weaknesses of each discipline. 
The engineers are well-trained, and ran 
noticeably improve our standards of liv ing 
and comfort, but they are given little oi no 
time, and absolutely no inspiration to exper
iment with artistic expression. Too often, 
theirs is logic without imagination, thought 
without feeling. The humanitarians under
stand and value free expression, but, in 
many cases, have divorced themselves from 
all thats technical. As a result manv are 
ill-prepared to deal realistically with this 
increasingly technical world. They allow 
themselves to become dependent upon the 
marvels of.technology (not marvels at all, 
but carefully thought-out devices easily 
understood in many cases) without learning 
how to deal effectively with them.
Hie recent English department vs. Eng
lish students battle points out the lack of 
tolerance here. The department is taking 
some first, clumsy steps toward a better mid
dle ground between excessive artsy educa
tion, with no real control over the process 
and excessive nerdy courses which leave 
no rexjm for philosophical growth. It has 
tried to do this by increasing the level of 
rhetorical study in the curriculum. The 
stejjs are, admittedly, clumsy, as all early 
stq>s are, but the goal is commendable. The 
student reaction shows a marked lack of 
tolerance to change, and to allowing the 
department room to experiment. The 
(k'jjaitments defensive posture shows its 
lack of tolerance to any dissenting view. 
Both sides are handling it very poorly. Both 
must leam to tolerate the other before any 
useful dialogue can occur.
I am learning other, more diffucult les
sons. How to say "no, for example. Its a 
lesson much neglected in college. Every
campus organization wants enthusiasm 
new members. Joining a dozen or so seems 
natural in the competitive atmosphere here: 
Looks good on the old resume! To refuse 
a good friends approach to join his or her 
group is tough. To refuse the advances of an 
attractive would-be is even tougher. I've 
handled it very' poorly, as many have my 
own approaches. We leam to accept rejec
tion before learning to deal it out, appar
ently. Some day maybe Ill handle it well. 
To those Ive injured through these clumsy 
first attempts, I offer no apologies, but 
thanks. Youve taught much. To those 
w hove hurt me, I expect no apologies, and I 
hope youve learned something, too. In 
most social learning situations, the 
teacher loses something, but the gain in 
the student more than counters that.
We all carry' away from those we meet 
something, no matter how small. The liter
ally thousands of people Ive met here have 
contributed enormously to me. I often 
wonder if Ive returned the contribution. 
Earlier, I discounted what Ive learned here 
in dasses. I cannot now do that. The twenty 
or thirty instructors Ive outraged or been a 
cipher to over the years have contributed 
even more than many friends by creating a 
substrate upon which others have built and 
carved their impressions. The multi-layered 
foundation of my formal education is a 
barely visible but invaluable and indelible 
Ixiri of me now. It is, I think, a hallmark of
owtit jx >tj1.i scihcnan
Mory Brenner and Dave Land take a break from their usual antics to reminisce
the quality of this education that it has 
become an inward part of me rather than an 
outward manifestation. Rather than a 
knowledge parrot, spouting my learning on 
demand. Ive become a much changed indi
vidual with a large body of knowledge at his 
disposal. I can think of no higher praise for
this school.
These remaining weeks of my nearing 
graduation, erf my learning when to yes 
and how to nO, of my learning tolerance, 
will be packed loosely. The people and 
events that fill them will remain close in my 
reflections.
Folio: Sept. 1977 Tartan: May 1981
by Mory Brenner
I arrived here a freshman at Ciimegie Tech,
With my mother in tears and my father a wreck.
We rode in a wagon filled right to the racks,
With two trunks, seven boxes, and sixteen odd sacks.
Wed been cramjx'd in that Buick, twelve hours or more, 
With no room for my sister who stayed on the floor, 
for the seats were all filled with my clothes and my tapes, 
A fan and a stereo and a cold bag of grapes,
A T.V., and my bike, and my fine art supplies,
Some (ream for my /its, and some drops for my eyes,
Four lamps and some books and of course my guitar,.
An oven, a fridgetliats just inside the car!
On the top my essentials, a road sign from home,
A still, and an iron, an antique French phone.
Nine rhinestone collars, my great dane named Fred.
I shall never forget my arrival at school,
And the stares that I got as we brought in my pool.
I shall never forget the events of that day,
Xor the pain in his scream when Fred bit the R.A.
As he went into shock, with his face turning blue,
Hie nurse acted quickly, (k>ricidins for you!
I left him in silence, as he clutched to his cross, 
llu n I went to my nxnn, twas a triple in Boss.
An E.E. who was |xxr, and an artist whos rich.
One gay, and one whim p. Ill not say which is which.
I scK>n Ixxame settled with things running just fine.
So I set out for Morewexxl, a great place to dine. 
Hamburgers are made from the librarians cats,
And the leftovers used there to kill off the rats.
For dessert licit* they serve us a large greenish prune, 
Which was probably left from a dinner last June.
Then I wasted my. time with a three hour |x>ll.
And soon it was Tuesday, and time to enroll.
Iliough I got all my courses by pure chance and luck,
I sjjent hours in lines, as the deans passed the buck.
So. Ciexl Ive arrived here at old C.M.lT.
Im a freshman you set*, so at college Im new.
My R.A.s still laved up, and Freds broken my jxx>1.
My lyjx writer's sticky , but every things cool.
Gause I know if Im sick, stay away from the nurse!"
And taming a plague here, things cant get much worse. 
But Ill vxMe be adjusted, then right in the grcxne,
11**11 sit Ixic k in my cliair. and I II watch things improve. 
Just a little* more he lp please is all tliat I pray.
Im scared shitless, vou see, mv first class is todav.
Next week Ill graduate from old Ciimegie Tech 
with my mother in tears and my father a wreck 
TheyH tell me times flown, that four years cant have past. 
But I think Ill be glad to be leaving at last 
To be done with that paper and feared final test 
IV) have nothing to do all this summer but rest 
and relax and to try to decide what to do 
with the rest of my life once Ive left CMU 
Though I must still admit therell be things that Ill miss.
At the five year reunion I might reminisce
ol The Tartan-the paper that started it all
and the radio station across in the hall,
how they put up new trees and they tore up the grass
in an effort to give us an ivyish class.
How they raised the tuition more year after year 
though the gain to the students was never made clear.
Ill think of my roommates who didnt all thrill me, 
the one sophomore year even threatened to kill me.
- And remember the fcxxl in the Kilte Cafe,
I ate there but on*and thats why Im here today.
Id hav most of the time we went out for our eats 
To the Big O, Primantis, and Ginos and Petes 
But a school is for learning and so most of all 
le t 's not forget classes in old Porter Hall.
In.jxxtiy, chastized for my strict use of rhymes 
and of course tlieres Cak II which I dropped all five times. 
Discussing the meaning of Hamlets intentionswriling the jxi|x*r after fifteen ex lent ions.
Hie nights at the terminal room spent like a geek 
as I tried to debug without sleep for a week.
But theres something I learned hen* w'hich youll never set* 
if you lcxk at my tninsirijM or B.A. degree 
I learned much about life both from friend and from f<x* 
and I grew and matured-or at k*ast I hojx* so.
And its knowledge like this which I think surpasses 
most things tliat professors can teac h you in classes.
Finally whats knowledge is defined by oneself, 
scxhi your lxxks will be buried by dust on the shelf.
And as I sit and think of my jxist Techie days 
I see how much I've learned in a number of ways.
I may once liave been quoted as {Hitting it down /
But Im glad tliat I studied in old Pittsburgh town.
I gained knowledge ami confidence each |xissing year 
Ill cater the- real world witltout any fear.
Ill leave CMl with relief and with sorrow.
Ciexxlbye college days-my last ( kiss is tomorrow.

---------------------------------------------------

$
May 5, 1981The TartanPage 9
Very Important Pittsburghers y
Samuel Hazo: Dir. Intematl Poetry Forum
by Molly Silver
Samuel Hazo is an important figure in 
the cultural life of Pittsburgh. As the direc
tor of the reknowned International Poetry 
Forum, Hazo has brought hundreds of the 
worlds most prominent poets, actors, and 
musicians to Pittsburgh on a seasonal basis, 
and he is responsible for the upcoming visits 
of six Pulitzer Prize winning poets to our 
city for the 1981-1982 Poetry Forum.
A poet of great distinction himself, Ha/.os 
xjems have been widely published in peri
odicals as The Saturday Review, The Yale 
Review and many other journals and 
anthologies. Having written over fifteen 
books, Hazo has just recently published a 
volume of poetry' entitled To Paris, fore
warded by Archibald MacLeish, which deals 
with a search for American-ness in a foreign 
country'. Dr. Hazos volume Once for the 
Ijist Bandit was nominated for the National 
Book Award in poetry in 1973.
Q. There is sentiment brewing today among 
certain writers who feel that it is difficult for
unpublished writers to get their works pub
lished in established literary publications 
because the editors seem to be frequently 
publishing each others w'ork in their jour
nals. Do you see this happening?
A. Well, I dont know about that. There are 
one or two good places where your poetry 
will be voted up or voted dowrn on its merits. 
Fhere are other places where there is consan
guinity. To try' to get a poem published 
there is virtually impossible unless it is soli
cited or unless youre a friend. ITiat has 
always been a problem. It is shot through 
the profession.
Q. Do you have difficulty finding your own 
voice?
A. I still do. Im a little more sensitive to 
when there are echoes in my poems than 
when I Weis younger, but that just comes 
from practice and from continuing to wTite.
Q. Youre a professor in the Department of 
English at Dusquesne University. How' do 
you go about teaching students how to write 
poetry?
Assoc, unites women grads
by Kathy McGinJey
After May 18, most of this year's graduat
ing class will pack up and leave Pittsburgh 
and their university ties behind. Many will 
settle in cities in which they know few, if 
any, people. Adjusting to this post-college 
lifestyle cant be an easy task, but there are 
ways to make the prcxess less difficult. 
Becoming involved in a professional organ
ization is one very viable way to meet people 
from similar backgrounds, and thus ease the 
adjustment.
Hie American Association of University 
Women(AAUW) is one organization that 
graduating women should seriously con
sider. Hie AAUW isan international ass<x iation with over 190,000 members in 1,870 
chapters in the U.S., and numerous chapters 
in 53 other countries, It was founded in 1881 
to help women enrolled in graduate studies. 
The organization continues to offer fellow 
ships to its members, but the commitments 
of its memlxTs have grown in its 100 years of 
existence. Iir~addition to education, the 
organization is involved in international 
relations, cultural events, and the commun
ity, from helping the jxx>r to pushing for the 
passage of conservation laws. Hie AAUW 
also s|x>nsors seminars and other events for 
its members on a wide varie ty of current 
issues.
Hie opportunities that AAUW has to
offer are limitless. Aside from being able to 
mee t jxople with similar backgrounds, par
ticipation in this organization enables you 
to learn and dor something about issues in 
.your community, the government, and the 
economy.
Becoming a part of AAUW may help 
niak? that adjustment to the1 rail world an 
easier one. If you are interestc*d in finding 
out more about AAl TW, contact Dean Lloyd 
in the Academic Advisory Outer, Baker 
Hall 161, or mail a card to: AAUW; 2401 
Virginia Ave.,NW; Washington, D.C. 20037.
A. I try to get to know the students and 
suggest disciplines against wliich theyll 
write. For example, I ask them to try' and 
write a letter to their closest friend. I tell 
them to write honestly, on the theory' that a 
poem is a letter from your closest friend. I 
tell them to w rite honestly about something 
that deeply concerns them, to someone who 
they know will listen respectfully.
Q. It must be* so interesting to come into 
contact with such interesting people?
A. Well, sometimes its interesting and 
sometimes-its difficult, but it is alw ays chal
lenging to do it. Nexc year were having a 
special yeaf. We received partial support 
from the Pittsburgh National Bank to invite 
all Pulitzer Prize awardees for the season, so 
we have six readings from six Pulitzer awar
dees. They are: Richard Wilbur, Stanley 
Kunitz, Donald Justice, Anthony Hect, 
Maxine Kumin and W.S. Merwin.
Q What gems of advice do you have for 
aspiring poets who are trying to make it? 
A. There is no top. There is no it. Lcx>k 
at it this way: lets be a little more humble 
about it than ambitious. If you have some
thing that just wont let you sleep until it is 
said, when you have it said as well as you 
can, that dcx*s something for you. It means a 
lot to you. It completes you in a way 
nothing else* can. Robe rt Frost called it a 
monetary stay against the confusion of 
things, against the flux of the world. Why 
not look at it just like that. You w rite a poem 
for that reason because you cant get out of 
it. If you bring it off it pacifies you for a 
moment as nothing else* can. Very few peo
ple have that option, look at it that w ay and 
if you send it to somebody and its pub
lished, okay, thats gravy'.
Q. Do you have* to be terribly moved by 
something to write a pcxro?
A. Unfortunately, yes. And I say unfortuSamuel Hazo, director erf the International 
Poetry Forum, is a professor at Duquesne.
nately because there are some poems that 
still live for me, about people or about 
events, disappointments, especially, that I 
w ish I never, never had the occasion to WTite. 
Q. Can a person become a gcxxl poet? Is it a 
talent or an art that can be developed or is it 
something one is bom with, something 
inside oneself that must be there?
A. You can WTite competent verse and there 
are a lot of poets who do that, but w hat you 
have is the same impression youd get if you 
saw a well dressed cadaver-everything is 
perfect, the tie is centered, not a hair out of 
place, but he is not living. The difference 
between talent and skill is the difference 
between something you can acquire and 
something that you have, and then must 
have to take responsibility for. If you dont 
pursue a skill, it doesn't come back to haunt 
you. If you dont pursue your tale*nt, it will 
tear you apart in one way or another. If you 
pursue it you will suffer for it. If you ignore 
it, it wont let itself be ignored. It will come 
out in other ways.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut for $6.00!!
Register for haircutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center 
or Century 111 Mall
Pregnant? 
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
Santana
Available1 at your favorite record store 
Columbia is a trademark of C8S Inc C1981 CBS Inc
The Mark of the Man and the Band.Twelve new songs that rock the way only Carlos Santana and The Santana Band can. On Columbia Records and Tapes.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMay 5, 1981
Below the surface
Irelands troubles go beyond religion to politics
by Luis Ball
Northern, Ireland-it never seems to be 
out of the news; for years now we have been 
getting reports of bombings, riots, and dem
onstrations from the region of Ireland that is 
officially a jxrrt of the United Kingdom. 
Clitics in Northern Ireland like Belfast and 
Londonderry are in the news so much that 
their names are as familiar to us as Chicago 
and Miami. But why all the trouble in 
Northern Ireland? Why so much antago
nism between Catholics and Protestants? If 
the answer was simple, Northern Ireland 
would not be in the news at all. The prob^ 
lems in tire region an1 complex, and as yet 
nobody has' been able to find a solution to 
them.
Northern Irelands population is twothirds Protestant and one-third Githolic. 
Originally there were no Protestants in all of
Ireland, but after one of the many Irish 
revolts against British rule, the British tried 
to make the country more manageable by 
bringing Protestants from Scotland into In 
land. This happened in the 17th century, and 
the British only managed to get significant 
numbers of Protestants to setde in the north
ern part of the island. Thus, for ever, the 
religions pattern of Ireland wasthe south 
was Catholic, the north was Protestant.
In 1921, when southern Ireland became a 
Dominion, Northern Ireland chose to 
remain part of the United Kingdom itself, 
although it was granted its own parliament. 
Southern Ireland became the independent 
Irish Republic in 1937, and from that time 
until 1969, it seemed that Northern Ireland 
could remain peacefully as a self-governing 
part of Great Britain.
But, in 1969, the first riots and violence
appeared in the north. It lx*gan with Cathol
ics protesting against the system of voting to 
elect the members of Northern Ireland's par
liament, and it spread to acts of violence 
between Catholic and Protestant groups. 
Hie Catholics argument was that they were 
the victims of an unfair voting system, while 
the Protestants-argued that all the (Catholics 
wanted was to unite with the Republic of 
Ireland.
Tcxlay, the admitted goal of the Irish 
Republican Army (IRA), is to achieve the 
unification of all of Ireland, while the Pro
testants want to remain British. The north
ern Irelands parliament was abolished in 
1972 because of the civil unrest in the region, 
and all of Northern Ireland was placed 
under the direct rule of the British govern
ment in London.
The deadlock now is that the Protestants
want to return to the old days when they ran 
the country through the Northern Irish par
liament, while the Catholics -would like to 
become part of the Republic of Ireland. 
Neither side is ready to compromise yet, 
although the brutality of the IRA terrorists 
and of some of the Protestant gangs may lx* 
pushing the population to an unexpected 
compromise.
It now seems possible that the Protestants 
and Catholics of Northern Ireland will get 
so tired of violence and anarchy that they 
will accept British rule as an acceptable 
alternative to union with the Republic or 
self-government within Britain. It seems 
possible now that the terrorists from both 
sides will alienate the population to such an 
ext (tit that they will be the cause for their 
own defeat. The war in Northern Ireland 
may end up a draw.
Travel plans should include insurance info and extra money
by Jennifer Donaldson
As the final weeks of the spring semester 
wind down, graduating seniors as well as 
underclassmen are preparing for the move 
from college campus to a permanent or 
summer job. With exams and final papers 
and projects building up, it sometimes 
seems like the- impossible dream try ing to 
get every thing straightened out and making 
final plans before its time to leave. Well, no 
iKttl to jxnric. Here are some general tips 
that can make planning and preparing fora 
summer leave easier for you.
WHAT TO TAKE
Have you e ver left home for college* or 
vacation and halfway there realized that you 
left behind that one* thing you should not 
have forgotten? If so, you'll begin to realize 
the* imjx>rtanec erf making up a vvellprejxired list be*fore leaving. Be*gin preen
ing your list early enough to allow time for 
revising it and adding things you may have 
forgotten before*.
Preparing your list. Make an extensive list of 
everything you would like to take. Then cut 
your list down to include only those* items 
that you need, plus any items that will lit in 
your |xtc king sc heme*.
Important items. Taking a bike* is a gnat 
iele*a if you can put a bike* rack on your car e>r 
fit the* bike* somehow into your packing 
scheme. You can save* a lot of money by 
riding your bike* to work e ve ry day inste ad of 
driving or taking a bus. It s also a gcxxl 
means of recreation and e*xe*rc ise*. A calcula
te is a big he lp when you start figuring 
exjxnses. l ake* your birth certificate* or a 
c opy of it in case* yei neexl prcx)f of your age 
for any reason. Also take at least twotyjx sol 
identification (driver's license*, college* I.D., 
c redit card, e*tc.). Make* sure* you have a card 
listing all your health insurance* informa
tion on it: name* and address of insurance* 
company, policy and group numlxrs, 
addresses and telephone* numbe*rs of }x*rsons 
to contact should something hapfxn to you. 
You should also take* any items that you 
have and may hetd for your job.
Packing. If someone* e*lse* will lx* living 
with you, the-re* are some* items that you 
should compromise* on. For instance, if your 
friend takes a radio, you can take the iron or 
the* first-aid kit.
When you jxrek the* car, pack those things 
that you will need during the trip in the 
most accessible jxirt of the car. You dont 
want to go digging to the bottom of the 
trunk just for your toothbrush. A duffle bag 
is a great substitute* fora suitcase*, and it can 
lx* stuffed itrto almost any comer in the car.
BEFORE YOU LEAVE
Mail, addresses, phone numbers. Did you 
remember to contact the* jxst offic e* and give 
them your forwarding address? If you dont 
want the* mail forwarded, you should ask 
someone* at home* to take* care of all your 
busine ss mail (bills from school, magazine 
subscriptions, etc.) and send all othe-r mail to 
you. Wu may want to establish a joint sav
ings or che*c king account with this|x*rson so 
that he* or she can jxry any bills that come
OXtUG foK A Tois >
Looking for a job? The Bookstore has a wide selection of job-finding books.
Lemuicll Ikstore
while youre away. If you plan on obtaining 
a school loan for the next year, take* care of 
all the pajx*rwork lx*fore you leave.
Preparing for the trip. If youre* traveling 
by car plan to have' your car chc*cked over 
about two weeks before you leave*. Get a map 
and rout out your trip. Decide which 
highways and roads you want to take.
Finally. . . make* sure you have enough 
money to cover all your traveling expense's 
as well as the* first months rent, food, bills, 
and deposits for utilities and phone. Dont 
forget gas mone y for your car once you get 
then*. Check over your list one last lime* to 
make* sure you havent forgotten anything. 
And whate ver von do, dont leave your tra
velers c hec ks Ix'hind!
Mr. Billscreator here tomorrow
Mr. Bill, Sluggo and Spot are at peace (and 
in one piece) for a change.
bv Maureen Brennan
Tomorrow night, Wednesday, May 6, 
Walter Williams will be in Skibo Ballroom 
to speak about Mr. Bill, his popular 8 inch 
Play-Doh creation w ho gets destroyed every 
week on Saturday Night Live by Sluggo 
and Mr. Hand.
The News Tribune said, Atbe*st, Mr. Bill 
is a classic stirvivor of the70s, with a resil
ience that Wile E. Coyte would admire. At 
worst, he* has become Americas favorite 
whipping boy. Every episode of his show 
brings new cruelties to the wee fellow and 
his lumpy dog, Spot--either at the hands of 
the* villainous Sluggo or through the mis
guided intenuons of Mr. Hands. Decapittated. Crushed. Bent. Spindled. But mostly 
mutilated.
The Washington Post said, He is us and 
we are him and he is we and we are all 
together, but fortunately, hes the one who 
keeps getting his legs cut off.
Hes just Mr. Bill, an ordinary guy. . . 
Youd squash him on the street and never 
notice him. . . ,
The signs of his conquest over the fickle 
American imagination are everywhere: Mr. 
Bill T-shirts, selling by the hundreds of 
thousands. The Mr. Bill Show Book, its first 
and second printings exhausted, its third on 
the way, its status now No. 2 national paper
back best seller. (Jan. 1980)
Walter Williams, the creator erf Mr. Bill, is 
an accounting graduate of the University (rf 
New Orleans. He prcxluctd local television 
specials and hosted a talk show in New 
Orleans before moving to New York to join 
the writing staff of Saturday Night. 
Williams says, I guess the show can be 
considered sick, but I think of it more as a 
parody. Ce rtainly, if you see someones head 
blown off on the national news, that would 
have a more drastic effect than seeing a little 
character blown ajxrrt then coming back the 
next week.
 rhe show is just a combination of the 
environments I was brought up in-Tom 
and Jerry*cartcxjns for example. Its hard to 
say what influenced The Mr. Bill Show 
and what it really is. Im just trying to make 
it funny.
The Walter Williams lecture is sponsored 
by AB Ijecture committee, and is funded by 
Student Activities Fe.
WANT TO MAKE GOING 
HOME HASSLE - FREE?
Store your furniture, cloths, books, etc. 
Everything fully insured.
Can LIBERTY STORAGE 
471-2510

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
The Arts flourish
CMU campus: A perfect 
showcase for talent.

---------------------------------------------------

 \
Page 12The TartanMay 5, 1981
Above: The Nighthawks from Virginia played a recent GSO concert in the Ballroom. 
Below: Freshman art students in Prof. Pickerings design class constructed the colorful tanes tries decorati rie the College of Fine Arts.
Open forum
...........................  V -Final week: H&SS applauded
Editor:
I am a freshman who transferred to H&SS 
from MCS, and I would like to give my 
impressions.
I entered MCS last semester after taking 
several advanced placement courses in 
science, and I discovered that MCS has some 
of the best professors Ive seen. Specifically, I 
commend Dr. Moore (mathematics) and Dr. 
Caretto (chemistry). These, two professors 
have taken material about which I had a 
very negative attitude and made it interest
ing to me.
Without mentioning any names, I should 
comment that MCS also has some of the 
worst professors I have ever had; this is part 
of the reason I left.
Small, interactive classes and helpful pro
fessors characterize H&SS. The classes do 
more than provide students with handy for
mulas; they make you think. The professors 
Ive had have all taken genuine interest in 
the students and are available outside of 
classes.
The core curriculum is a good idea, but I 
think it should be re-worked in places. The 
courses are interactive, which is good, but 
sometimes this is, overdone. At one point 
this semester I was exposed to various 
aspects of the French Revolution in all three 
of my H&SS courses.
Probably the core course which receives 
the most objection is Origins of the Modem 
World, and for good reasons. The course has 
two main goals, to teach us history' and to 
teach us techniques of inquiry and analysis. 
It falls flat on its face in both. If they want to 
each us analysis, they should use a period of 
history with which we are already some
what familiar; in particular, I propose some 
aspect of American history.
We currently spend about three quarters 
of our time just learning the history so we 
can apply the analysis. If they want tb teach 
us history, I can certainly think of more 
interesting periods to study.
In general, however, I feel that the core 
curriculum is a reasonable attempt to pro
vide students with a wide variety of subject 
matter.
Sincerely, 
Monica J. Cellio 
Technical Writing, 84
Editor: ,
With all the petty griping throughout the 
pages of The Tartan, one traditional subject 
is noteworthy by its absence. Whatever hap
pened to all the complaints, wise cracks, and 
jokes about H&SS?.
The answer is that the College of Human- y 
iues and Social Sciences no longer has to 
look up to see the other academic divisions 
of CMU. H&SS has come of age.
The college has done it through methods 
that would be foreign to some of the univer
sitys departments: competent, responsive 
administration, and quality teaching. The 
departments of Social Science and History 
and Philosophy are two of CMUs finest. 
The departments of English and Psychol
ogy have some minor problems, but have 
great potential for the near future. Only Eco- ] 
nomics is still searching for an identity.
Hopefully, H&SS will continue its drive 
toward excellence, and set an example that 
the rest of the school will follow. But if that 
does happen, what will the readers of The 
Tartan have to cry about?
Sincerely,
A Psychology Major
The Beaux Arts Ball Committee would like to extend its warmest thanks to all those who helped make it possible!
Committee Heads
Meg Levine 
Kevin Hardy 
Howard Matz 
Ken Jackson 
Mike Reidy 
Joe Skonecki 
Norman Schwab 
Marcy Trent 
Dave Robinson 
lam Hoffman 
Diane Poche 
Michael Skloff 
Michael Reidy
Design
Laurie Hartwick 
Steve Herbolich 
Jenny McChesney 
Sue Ritzau 
Gayle Mahn 
Barb Stark 
Cynthia Johnson 
John Judy 
John Sotirakis
And for anyone else not spectacular event. Keep the
Activities Board Crew
Scott Tietjen 
Scott Denney 
Bill Hammerschlag 
Bob Demart ino 
Rusty Gray 
Mark Stemniski
Indispensable Help
Jim Hogan 
Cfiris Evans 
Gary Schieder 
Steve McMillan 
Ann Mays 
Chris Wolfe 
Tim Nissen 
Kurt Diddlebock 
Mary be th Munroe 
Russell Howard 
Jim Halpem 
Stuart Suna 
Larry. Neff 
Pamela Perkins 
Diane Waschow 
Richard Gorelick 
Ken Jacksonon this list...We thank you. It was a tradition going.Jamie Burnett Leslie Nieman Co-chairman
On Sale Now at CMU
Bookstore 
Oakland Review
Campus Literary Magazine

---------------------------------------------------

May 5, 1981The TarianPage 13
Ms
'Mm
LAST CHANCE TO PICK UP 
1981 THISTLES!
Tuesday, May 5 Thursday, May 7 10 a.m. -2 p.m.
After these dates, the yearbook staff will not 
be responsible for any unclaimed books. Any problems, 
contact: Chris x4065 or Chris x4747
On any given day one can run into a quadruple brass quartet (made up of music 
majors, of course) on the cut.
HUNT LIBRARY REGULAR SCHEDULE
8:00 A.M. - 2m A.M.* 
8:00 AM. - 9:00 P.M. 
9:00 A.M. - 6:00 P.M. 
12.W P.M. - 2K)0 AM.*
(note extended hours)
Monday - Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday*From 12:00 Midnight until 2:00 A.M. the basement and first floor of Hunt Library will be available for study purposes only. No other services or facilities will be available. In addition Reference Service hours have been extended to 9:00 P.M., Monday through Thursday and 1:00 P.M. to 4:30 P.M., Saturday.
EARN OVER $800A MONTH
AND OPEN THE DOOR TO A TOP 
ENGINEERING FUTURE.
How many corporations would be willing to pay you over $800 a month 
during your junior and senior years just so youd join the company 
after graduation? Under a special Navy program were doing just that. 
Its called the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate-College Program.
'And under it, youll not only get great pay during your junior and 
senior years, but after graduation youll receive a year of valuable 
graduate-level training that is not available from any other employer.
If you are a junior or senior majoring in math, engineering or 
physical sciences, find out more today. And let your career pay off 
whilp qHII in rnllpfTP v
For more information, Send resume and college transcipts 
at: to Lt. Bill Wright, Navy Officer
Programs, 1000 Liberty Avenue, Suite 711,
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
Funded by activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon welcomesMr_Bill Wednesday May6 Skibo Ballroomj$pm_Free with CMU ID Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Sweepstakes Chairman May Slava talks to 
Safety Chairman Mike Fox before the heats 
start.
photos by Robert Zusman
(sequence at left)
Sigma Nus Hill 4 pusher, Chris Wargo, 
falls as he gives a terrific push-off to Hill 
5 pusher, Scott Crump. Crump went on 
to push ESP to a record breaking time of 
2:14.2, but that only got them second 
place.
White Lightning, last years PIKA A buggv, was this years PIKA B buggy. It is shown here 
passing ATOs Quantum Horse.
Carnegie Involvement Association (CIA) broke two records with their Black Magic. They became the first non-fratemal organization to 
win Sweepstakes, and they did it in the record time of 2:10.5.
CIA wins 1981 Sweepstakes in record time
and the most controversial run of the day. 
Sigma Nu-A broke Pikas course record 
with an amazing 2:14.2, and the afternoons 
best freeroll.
Sigma Nus infamous ESP coasted uphill 
past nine windows of Porter Hall before it 
needed the aid of the Hill 3 pusher. At Sun
day evenings award ceremony, the brothers 
of Sigma Nu roared One, two, three, four, 
five, six, seven, eight, NINE! in honor of 
ESPs glorious coast.
Heat 9 also saw a controversial double 
spill. Phi Kap-B spun out at the hay bales on 
continued on page 19
hairpin turn, travelling at record-breaking 
time, it spun out of control and was unable 
to make the turn.
The Pika buggy suffered only minor 
damage and the driver, as well as the other 
drivers involved in the afternoons four spin 
outs, emerged unscathed from the spill.
The early lead was taken by Beta-A in 
Heat 3 with a time of 2:18.7. This lead lasted 
until Heat 8, when Pikas White Lightning 
clocked in at 2:18.5. ATO-A coasted in at 
2:23.0 in Heat 8, a time that would ulti
mately be good enough for sixth place.
Heat 9 proved to be the most electrifying
The Carnegie Involvement Association 
(CIA) stunned Sweepstakes spectators as it 
became the first non-fratemal organization 
in Buggy history to capture the Sweepstakes 
crown. CIAs A buggy, the pill-like Black 
Magic, shaved almost four seconds off Pikas 
record time, set only last year.
Pika suprised the Sweepstakes field by 
entering a new buggy for its A run instead of 
the 1980 record-setting White Lightning. In 
the last heat of the day, Pika-A went up 
against CIAs phenomenal time with virtu
ally the same push team that won last years 
Sweepstakes. As the buggy rounded the final

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMay 5, 1981
Wild Bunch edges ATO 7-6 in IM softball
In intramural softball, the Wild Bunch 
squeezed by ATO-1, 7-6, to take the major 
league championship. Both teams were 
undefeated going into Saturdays game. 
ATO edged Womp Em (4-1) by 13-12, while 
the Wild Bunch slugged it out with GSIA 
(3-2) to 18-12 in the semifinals.
ATO opened the championship game by 
taking a base-on-balls, then scoring a 
runner on a throwing error. The Wild 
Bunch answered with a run in the bottom of 
the second to tie it up, then added another in 
the bottom of the third.
ATO added three more in the top of the 
fourth with hits from Punisher, Gilles 
Carter, and Serb Bielich. Two more runs on 
hits from Colosimo, Postufka, and Chrise 
put ATO in command with a 6-2 lead in the 
top of the fifth. In the bottom of the inning, 
the Bunch got one run on three throwing
errors. ATO went down 1-2-3 in the sixth, 
and the Wild Bunch exploded for four runs 
on hits by Czepiel, Pochan, Culby, Boron, 
and Grant to take the lead at 7-6.
In the top of the seventh, ATO made two 
quick outs, then Colosimo and Corletti hit 
screaming singles to put men on second and 
third. The threat ended on a fly ball to right 
field.
In the semifinals, ATO gave the fans a 
thrill by defeating Womp Em (last years 
runner-up), 13-12, on a bottom-of-theseventh three-run homer by first baseman 
Kelly. ATO had an early lead, lost it on 
errors, then ended it with one swing of the 
bat. The Wild Bunch went six rounds with 
GSIA, the surprise team of the playoffs, 
before outscoring them, 18-12. GSIA earlier 
had upset Beta-A, 6-4, before mauling KS, 
19-2.
Meckleys Tartan trackmen 
grab third straight PAC title
by Gregg Bossier
Last weekend the CMU track team simply 
devastated all the competition at the PAC 
Championships in Cleveland, Ohio. Coach 
Gary Meckleys trackmen ran their way to a 
third consecutive conference title.
The team gathered 177 points, setting a 
new record for the most points scored in 
PAC competition. Second place Allegheny 
trailed with 81 points; followed by 
Bethanys 76, Cases 72, Hirams 66, Thiels 
37, JCUs 36, and W&Js 10 points. The 
Tartans also sported a perfect record this 
season.
The track team was led by senior co
captains Joe Goldcamp and Dario Donatelli, and Tom Clancy. Goldcamp tied the
PAC record in the high hurdles with 14.8 
seconds, qualifying him for NCAA. He was 
also named Most Valuable Player of the 
PAC, gathering 28 points on his own at the 
championships.
Donatelli, our All-American cross coun
try runner, took first in the 5000 meter with a 
time of 15:17.9. In the high jump Clancy 
also tied the PAC record with his jump of 
67".
Despite the forthcoming absense of these 
award-winning trackmen next year, Coach 
Meckley is quite optimistic about the teams 
future. Returning will be junior Ken Hallinen; sophomores Avi Orenstein and Kev in 
Cureton; along with freshmen Mike Short, 
Mike OShip, John Wessels, Kevin Brewer,
Whee Ha!
Congratulations to the 
Spring Carnival Committee 
for braving the elements and 
puttin on a good oF time at 
Rancho Andy.
Thanks a heap.
Wild BunchABHRRBIE
Grant3B42110
Pies r2B41100
Und woodLC20010
Nov; vRF30000
ZeepIB32200
PochaP22101
SlonakSS30001
CulbyRC32120
BoronLF32110
OllefenC20010
2911762
ATO1ABHRRBIE
WitherellRC31100
Kenny2B41000
RennerLF40001
ColosimoRF42100
CorlettiLC42100
PostufkaC42100
ChriseSS21122
LeeIB20100
Carter3B31021
BielichP32010
331165 4
l234567|pf >

ALPHA TAU OMEGA - 1Y ;; : :l0032006 'Y'v;Y
WILD BUNCH011014X7'  'V t V
and Chris Shafer. Meckley is also expecting 
some very good incoming talent.
Coach Meckley has bred his squad into 
the number-one freshman cross country 
team in the nation. However, he takes no 
credit for the superb performance of his 
team; instead he accredits CMUs success to
one thing  dedication. Meckley notes that 
their training began in January, a good two 
months before any of the competition, and 
continued regularly through the season.
Meckley sums up his feelings saying, Its 
a real priviledge to coach them. Theyre just 
super and I cant say enough about them.
TOP $ PAID FORRECORDSBought*SoId*Traded
(WE BUY COLLECTIONS)5824 Forbes 421-2835
NATIONAL'S HOLIDAY RATES GIVE FANS SOMETHMG TO CHEER ABOUT..
This low rate is available 
from Thursday AM to 
6PM Monday at the locations 
listed below. 2 day 
minimum. You pay 
for gas and return 
car to renting 
location. Rate 
applies to car 
shown or similar
size car, is non discountable 
and subject to change without 
notice. Larger cars available 
at similar savings. 
Specific cars subject 
to availability. We 
offer S&H Green 
Stamp certificates 
on rentals in 
all 50 U.S. states.
V* Ihm V* Ihmt
National Car Rental
You deserve National attentions
4621 Forbes Ave (Oakland)
682-1444

---------------------------------------------------

Stop. Please read. 
AB Report Card.
Activities Board, AB, is the student-run entertainment organization on campus. Funded throughStudent Senate by the Activities Fee, AB brings many events to the campus: lectures, films, dances, etc.In an effort to improve the organization and bring better entertainment to the students of CMU, AB is conducting this survey to determine their current effectiveness on campus.Please take a few minutes to fill out the survey, listing any changes that you might like to see in AB. Each student compledng the survey will have his/her name entered in a drawing for $25. The winners name will be posted at Skibo Information Desk during finals week.Drop the completed survey off at the Information Desk in Skibo, or send via campus mail to* SURVEYRoom 200 Skibo Hall
I. (Since the beginning of this academic year) how often did you attend each of the following (AB-sponsored) events on campus? (circle one number)
Coffee house 
Lectures/Special Events 
Thursday Films 
Concerts 
Friday Films 
Dance Committee 
Sunday Films
never
2 2 2 
2 2 2 2
always
n. What is your opinion of the performance of the following AB Committees during this academic year? (circle one number)
terribleexcellent
Coffeehouse 
Lecture/Special Events 
Thursday Films 
Concerts 
Friday Films 
Dance Committee 
Sunday Films
. 4 4 4 4 4 4 4
III. Place a check next to any of the following off-campus events that you have attended since the beginning of this academic year:
Theatre____Pitt
____Pitts. Pub. Theatre
____Pitts. Lab. Theatre
____Other (specify)
Concerts____Pi tt
____Stanley Theatre
____Heinz Hall
____Civic Arena
____Other (specify)
Lectures Camegie-Institute
____Pitt
____Duquesne
____Other (specify)
Cinema____1 st-run cinema
____Pittsburgh Playhouse
____Pittsburgh Filmmakers
____Other (specify)
Dances.Pitt
Chatham College
____Duquesne
____Carlow College
____Other (specify)
How many hours per week do you watch television?-----------hours.
v- Ho you find it difficult to obtain information about an AB-sponsoredevem?_Yes___No.
VI. How do you usually find out about the various films, concerts, dances, etcM sponsored by AB? (circle one number)
totally veryunimportant important
The Tartan
Posters in Academic buildings
Thank you for your cooperation. AB -the entertainment people.
Friends & acquaintances 
Posters in Dormitories 
WRCT
Posters in Skibo
VII. Do you think Activities Board should receive (the same, a smaller, a 
larger) allocation from Student Senate? (circle one response)
VIII. Do you think AB Thursday Films should (raise, lower, not change) their ticket prices (with a subsequent change in the quality of films shown)? (circle one)
' V
Do you think AB Friday Films should (raise, lower, not change) their ticket prices (with a subsequent change in the quality of films shown)? 
(circle one)
Do you think AB Sunday Films should (raise, lower, not change) their dcket prices (with a subsequent change in the quality of films shown)? 
(circle one)
Do you think AB Concerts should (raise, lower, not change) their ticket prices (with a subsequent change in the quality of concerts presented)? 
(circle one)
IX. Overall, how do you rate ABs performance for this academic year?
extremely poor 
1 2 3
X. Personal Information
fair
4
excellent 
6 7
Where do you currendy live?___Morewood__The Hill___Frat. Quad__Off-campusIf you live off-campus,1) how far approximately do you live from CMU?__miles.2)do you usually drive or walk to CMU?__drive walkWhat year are you currendy in?__Freshman__Sophomore___Junior Senior Grad. StudentSex:___Male__FemaleCollege:___H&SS___MCS__CIT___SUPA___CFA___GSIA
XI. Suggestions & Comments
NAME:__ADDRESS
PHONE:
(entry form for $25 drawing will be detached to insure anonimity of the person submitting survey before processing)

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
TOP NOTCH
ftPTKT
ENGINEERINGDRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355-0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P MART MATERIALS INC
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
Gallery Hours are Tuesday through Friday, 
a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday 1 to 5 p.m. and Sunda}
10 a.m. to 5 p.m.
May 5 through May 17-33 Degrees, tlx show 
of the senior design department of CamegieMellon.
May 9 through June 7Spring Group Show/Paintings, Sculpture and Fiber. Some featured 
artists are Kathy Mulchahy, David Summer* 
James Nelson and Watfa Midani
ABORTION
 free pregnancy tests
 confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non profit medical facility
CALL 50S-$9$1CMU TRAVEL OFFICE CA^
classified
apartments
Shadyside Apt. June to June lease. $395. Includes 
all utilities. 2 bedroom. 621-3633
Summer Housing Available--May 11 to Aug. 28 
$400--single, $300~double.. Sigma Nu 681-1338 
or 621-9144.
Summer sublet, Sq. Hill/Pt. Breeze, one bed
room in a three bedroom apartment. Rent $100. 
Available now through August. 361-5124. 
evenings.
Summer Roomate needed-furnished apartment 
ment in Highland Park. Call Jeff 362-8104. 
Summer Sublet4 minute walk from CMU (by 
Gino and Petes) $90 month all utilities paid for. 
Call 683-8372.
Summer sublet...large, fully furnished ajwrtment, two porches, two bedrooms, available midMay. Rent negotiable. Call 621-6718 anytime.
Great Apt. Available. May 21 -August 21 with 
-pos. fall option. So close its practically on cam
pus (5170 Beeler) Dishwasher, washer dryer, and 
a c for those hot summer nights. Completely 
furnished, off-street parking. 3 bedrooms, ONLY 
$125 per bedroom per month. Call Robin or 
Janis: 422-0531 or Bob: 665-0218. Keep Try ing!
Wanted: Summer sublet, studio or one bedroom, 
preferably patially furnished. Sq. Hill or Shadyside. Starting end of May. Call Sid (617) 782-3611.
Services
Resumes. Have your resume WTitten and 
designed by a professional. Special rates for stu
dents. Call K. Donnelly Communications 521 - 
1863.
Skydiving Instructions. First jump course 
through advanced free fall techniques. Group 
rates and student discounts. North Hills area. 
Freedom skydivers. 224-6624.
Typing-experienced, freelance secretary, will 
type at home; papers, theses, statistics, etc. IBM 
Selctric II, 521-7888
Want it done right5 Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM. executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Typing, term papers, letters, dissertadons, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 p.m. if possible
Professional typing at reasonable rates: thesis, 
term papers, legal briefs, cassette transcriptions. 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 (24 hrs, IBM service)
Typing; IBM Selectric Symbols: Pica, elite, work
.guaranteed. 734-1331.
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed native teachers. For additional info 
call 661-1211.
Moving and light hauling-campus based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062
Will type or edit anything. Available anytime of 
day after May 4. Call 521-1633 Mrs. King Smith 
(available especially for foreign students.
Buy and Sell
Sony TC-K6 Cassette Deck, $185. Philips 212
Turntable w ADC Garrtridge and Dishwasher,
$85. $250 for both. 683-0978
Microscope for sale: in excellent condiuon, no 
longer needed by medical student. 5, 10,40, lOOx 
objecuves, built-in light, condenser; sturdy 
wooden case included. Asking $575. Call 621- 
4644.
Plush carpet for sale. One semester old. 12x5. 
dark brown. 35 dollars. Call Peter 578-4219.
Cash: Wanted, 10,000 Late Model Wrecks and 
Junkers, Used Cars, Trucks, 23. hrs. 422-996S
Help Wanted
Will you be on campus this summer looking for
a way to earn extra cash? We need students to 
parucipate in psychology learning experiments. 
No special skills needed. The duration of an 
experimet may be from 2 to 4 hours. Pay: $3/hr. 
Call 578-2815 or sign up on bulledn board in the 
Psychology' Department, 3rd floor Baker Hall.
Need a summer job? If y<?u have good secretarial 
skills and would like to work on campus this 
summer, contact Mary Riley, Personnel Services, 
Temporary Employment Services. Call x2406
Want to work for The Tartan (in the business 
department) next year, and get paid for it? Call 
x2112 and ask for Pam.
summer Counselor Posidons Available. Appli
cants are now being considered for the 1981 camp 
season. Must be able to teach one of the follow
ing; .Arts and Crafts, Arts and Crafts Director, 
Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and Singing, Archers, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Gymnastics, Photography , Teaching, Jazzercize, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C Swimming 
Instructor or General Atheletics. Counselor Unit 
Leaders, must be college graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, 
evening program, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 6410 Beacon St.,Pittsburgh Pa. 
15217 or phone 412-521-2376.
College students: National Company needs 10 
students for full time summer employment in 
marketing. Earn up to $4000, plus $1000 cash 
scholarships. Call 787-1795.
Activistscitizens organization needs people 
committed to fight for fair utility rates and safe 
energy . Excellent training, advancement opport uni lies. Hours 2-10 p.m. Earn $134-175 dollars 
{XT week. Gall Pennsylvania Alliance for Jobs 
and Energy . 9-5 p.m. 566-2290
Summer Jobs. Temporary typing/secretarial 
jobs available. Short/long term. All areas. Must 
be 18. Call for appointments. Manpower Tem
porary Services. 391-7034.
----T--------' ' fl . ,
Events.
a.h.______________________
May 8
Friday Films
The Jerk, starring Steve Martin and Bernadette 
Peters. Directed by Carl Reiner. 6,8,10 and 12 in 
DH2210. $1 wiht CMU ID.
theatre
April 16 through May 10 
Justine
Pittsburgh Laboratory' Theatres producuon of 
Leon Katzs adaptation of Marquis De Sades 
novel. Thursday through Sunday at 8 p.m. and 
Sunday at 2:30. At the Pittsburgh Laboratory 
 Theatre Company, 420 N. Craig St. 621-2876 for 
reservations and further information.
Through June 7 
Two Gen demen of Verona 
The Pittsburgh Public Theatres fifth produc
tion of the season will bring Shakespeares 
comedy in the style of the roaring 20s. 323-1900 
for ticket information.
film________
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
May 6
Bad Timing-A Sensual Obsession, starring Art 
Garfunkel. Directed by Nicholas Roeg. 7:30 and 
9:40.
May 7
Black Orpheus. 7:30 and 9:30 
May 8
Wizards, directed by Ralph Bakshi. 7:30 and 9:30 
and 11:30
May 9
All That Jazz, directed by Bob Fosse. Starring
Temporary labor. Jobs available. Warehouse, 
loading-unloading trucks, forklift needed. Shor- > 
t/long term. All areas, phone/car necessary. Must 
be 18. Call for appointments. Manpower Tem
porary Services. 471-8912
special
Pre-med or accepted to medical school?? See ad 
for microscope in this issue.
Kathy McGinleyFeatures thanks you; assistant 
editor in all but name. Congrats on graduation. 
Heres to the summer-Erin Go Braugh! Mau
reen and Kathy.
Jessica Lange, Roy Scheider, Ann Reinking and 
Ben Vereen. 7:30, 9:40 and 11:45.
May 10
7776, starring William Daniels, Howard Da Siha 
and Ken Howard. 7:3Q/and 10:00.
May 11 ^ i
Performance, directed by Nicholas Roeg. Star
ring Mick Jagger. 7:30 and 9:30
May 12
The Fountainhead, from Rands novel, starring 
Gary Cooper and Patricia Neal. 7:30 and 9:30
music
"May 7 through 9
Pittsburgh Symphony ,
Andre Previn conducts the symphony in the 
.American premiere of the Concerto for Solo 
Flute by John Williams. Thursday and Satur
day at 8 p.m. and Friday at 8:30 p.m. $3.50 student 
Rush tickets are available at the box office begin
ning 15 minutes before each performance.Hunt Institute
9 a .m. to 5 p.m. in the Penthouse of Hunt Library 
on the campus of Camegie-Mellon University,
Through June 5--Nosegays and Bouquets: 
Flower and Fruit Arrangements in Western Art, 
spanning four centuries.
Through June 5-Color pencil drawings of Bristlecone Pines by California artist-illustrator 
Delia Taylor Hoss. ,
Carnegie Museum
Through May 24 In China: Photographs by 
Eve Arnold, Gallerv A.
Through May 10 Christopher Watts (pnnts, 
drawings and paintings) Gallery D.
Through May 31 Daumier: Parisian Char
acters. Gallerv 10
Peace Corps and VISTA Volunteers
For information contact a recruiter, Mon.- 
Fri., 9-5pm: U.S.Customs House, Rm. 102A, 
2nd ? Chestnut St., Philadelohia, PA 19106 
Toll free 800-462-1589 Ext. 66

---------------------------------------------------

Netters are 2nd in PAC
The Camegie-Mellon University tennis 
team journeyed to Ohio last weekend to 
participate in the Presidents Athletic Con
ferencex championships at Case Western 
Reserve in Cleveland.
The Tartans were 5-1 in the PAC going 
into the championships and hoped to 
unseed the defending champion Allegheny. 
However, the Gators won eight of the nine 
singles and doubles matches to take their 
second consecutive PAC tennis tide. Allegh
enys top player was freshman John Mercer, 
who won the tide in number-one singles.
CMU Coach Mark Bush counted on 
senior Brian Wolf and junior Jim Silvey to 
lead the Tartans to a victory, but despite 
their efforts CMU came in second, accumu
lating 14 points. Allegheny totalled 26 
points, while Case Western Reserve and 
Washington 8c Jefferson tied for third place 
with 8 points apiece. Following were John 
Carrol with 5 points, Bethany and Hiram 
with 2, and Thiel scoring nothing.
Four secs, shaved off record
if A Kappa Sigma driver gets assistance from a brother at one of the buggy courses most precaI nous turns. Kappa Sigma placed sixth in the Sweepstakes.
Summer Swimming hours; lessons
The summer hours for the CamegieI Mellon pool will be in effect beginning on 
I Tuesday, May 19, 1981. Monday through 
I Friday the pool will be open for the use of all 
I students and faculty from 11:00 a.m. to 2:303
 p.m. and then from 3:30 to 6:30 p.m. Satur
day and Sunday the hours will be 1:00 to 
J 4:00 p.m.
Swimming lessons will be offered for all 
I levels of ability in the morning, as well as a
special Senior Lifesaving course in the even
ing. The lifesaving class begins Monday, 
May 25, and runs until Monday, June 15. 
This forty hour course will be held every 
Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 7:00 
to 10:00 p.m. For further information 
regarding swimming classes contact Kim 
Denney at 578-4937, or leave a message at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
continued from page 15
the final turn. The Fringe-A buggy, which 
was well behind the Phi Kap mishap, was 
correctly told to stop, but it also spun out. 
Although some spectators felt that Fringes 
spin out was- unrelated to any other incident 
in the race, its buggy was allowed to rerun in 
a special heat. Ironically, Fringe also spun 
out in that special heat too.
In Heat 10, Sigma Nus record became a 
thing of the past as CIA-As buggy crossed 
the finish line at a breakneck time of 2:10.5. 
The fast times in Sundays Sweepstakes (the 
first one that was not held during Spring 
Carnival) were attributed partly to the ideal
weather conditions and partly to the excel
lent condition erf the newly paved roads  
conditions that might not appear again for 
decades.
When the members of CIA found out that 
Pika-A had spun out in the days last heat, 
giving them the unofficial victory, they were 
disappointed that they did not beat Pika 
clean-out, but were still ecstatic that their 
years of work had finally paid off.
The buggy design awards were given out 
at the awards ceremony last Sunday night in 
the Ballroom. Betas Echo won first prize, 
Sigma Nus ESP took second, and Cyclone 
of DTD placed third.
Red Cross: Ready for a new century.
A Puttie Service of This Newspaper & The Advertising Council RT
At Great "X we're looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
MAIftCUTS 
(Wosh-Cvt-Olow)
12 00
THEPOWRP SRIP 10.7 
Thvrt. flrl. 10-0
Sat. 9-6
COUMHNQ ratMANKNTS
117 AHwmm fwt A KL 00
>W f If Of !
OaUaniftXOfllc
M74SW
UNIS!X NAM SALON No Amlw|innt
Economics & Planning 
Engineer
' As demand for unleaded gasoline is expected to 
double, much of the U.S. refinery capacity is ill-suited 
to turn out high quality product from heavy, high sulphur 
crudes. The outstanding exception  GHR Energy 
Corporation, one of the nations fastest growing and 
most progressive refiners. Due to massive captal out
lays over the last 2 years and continuing for the next 
3 years, GHR Energy Corporation will soon process 
400,000 barrels per day of high sulphur, heavy crude into 
a totally high quality stream geared to tomorrows 
unleaded gasoline market. Because of our commitment 
to growing into the nations largest independent refiner 
as well as meeting the nation's energy demands, GHR 
Energy Corporation announces the following, long term 
career opportunities.
Sr. Economics A Planning Engineer 
Economics  Planning Engineer
The Economics and Hanning Division is seeking a 
results oriented, problem-solving individual.
Candidates will have responsiblity encompassing all 
;aw material evaluation, unit process optimization, 
capital budgeting, and expansion planning, with 
respect to short and long term corporate goals.
Experience in the petroleum (refining or exploration) 
industry, simulation modeling, linear programming, 
data base development and process computer inter
face is desirable.
This position will involve:Languages: Fortran, Basic, Magen and Omni
Main Frames: PDP-11 Series, Quantel,
Time Share
Operating Systems: (PDP-11 Experience) RSTS, RT-11
Send your resume, and for recent graduates a course 
transcript or listing, in complete confidence to: 
Employment Manager
GHR Energy Corporation
P.O. Box 537 
Good Hope, LA 70079 
504-764-8611
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanMay 5, 1981
Chinese domino cards. Orientaijpards were leader ot such diverse materials as paper, wood, ivory, canvas, tortoise cfteil,tiie or embroidered pttfc.-,..; 
Senior Design Show
Three Armco-funded prison systems highlight show
by Maureen Brennan
33 , A Senior Design Show, will pre
cede the graduation of 33 seniors in the 
Design Department. The show, which opens 
tonight at 4:30 in Pittsburgh Plan for Art 
Gallery 407, South Craig Street, runs 
through May 17.
Ten of the seniors have been working 
together under a grant from Armco on a 
series of projects for use in prisons. Recent 
laws require that all prisoners have access to 
legal information, a cosdy endeavor. Thus, 
Mark Beard, John Judy, and Henry Yocco 
developed a portable library system, for use 
in special prison housing units, that pro
vides access to legal materials and recrea
tional reading.
Binny Kelly, David Robinson, Thomas 
Tercek, and Thomas Weinkle developed an 
automated system for dispensing pharma
ceuticals. The dispenser can by used both in 
prisons and in medical institutions.
The third Armco-funded project, collabo
rated on by Susan Helwig, Craig Otto, and 
Dave Seaman, is a prison barrier nursing 
system. It is a temporary system for use in 
medical infirmaries to prevent the spread of 
contagious diseases.
Many of the seniors designed and pub
lished promotional materials for their final 
project. These include a tourism promotion 
for Saratoga Springs, New York, and one for 
Baltimores Inner Harbor; an identity sys
tem for Meadowcroft Village, a historic setdement in rural Pennsylvania; promotion 
for the South Craig Street area, which is 
currently being renovated; a press kit for 
Pittsburgh Public Theatres production of 
Galileo; a recruitment and promotion pack
age for the Design Department; Home 
Away from Home, materials for the 
Ronald McDonald House of Pittsburgh; 
and a bilingual poster and brochure for Chi
natown Manpower Project, a non-profit 
organization in New York City.
Several projects were completed with the 
help of writing majors. Expression, a publi
cation for the College of Fine Arts, was 
designed and edited by Jane Dudley; the text 
was written by Richard Gorelick, a junior in 
creative writing and editor-in-chief of The 
Tartan. Tom Hart designed, illustrated, and 
wrote recipes for Here Come the Eagles, a 
childrens booklet on nutrition. David M. 
Land, a senior in creauve and technical writ
ing, wrote the text.
One of the more unique projects is Dis
aster Readiness, a project designed by Mat
thew Mason. It is a complete, portable, 
self-contained package for any emergency 
evacuation, survival, or disaster situation.
Other projects range from industrial 
design to handcrafting: Nancy Silco organ
ized and designed a catalog format for an 
aluminum reel manufacturing firm; Karl 
Kirk developed an exercise apparatus and 
program to promote CMU students per
sonal fitness; Elizabetta Torossi made a 
childrens toy-soft blocks of different sizes, 
representing city buildings, with interchan
geable covers; Martha Hirst studied patch
work quilt patterns.
33 , A Senior Design Show, is free and 
open to the public. Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 
407 South Craig Street, is open Tuesday 
through Friday 10a.m. to 5p.m.,Saturday 1 
p.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday 10 a.m. to5 p.m.
Thomas Megalis exhibit depicts the contrast between coal miners and mining technology >
?ikfefcpphoto
Linda Held documents the history of playing cards and design for a new deck in her senior project.
An automated system for dispensing pharmaceuticals was developed by Binny Kelly, David Robinson, Thomas 
Tercek, and Thomas Weinkle
