*
mm
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 16, February 12, 1985,
Organ donor 
drive planned
By KAREN GRAY
I Tartan News Editor
A city-wide organ donor drive could be 
the largest student-run campaign in the 
country, said CMU Mortar Board chapter president Luis Arraez.The drive is being sponsored by the MorItar Board, the CMU senior honor society, in conjunction with Lambda Sigma, the CMU sophomore honor society.
Although anyone can be a donor, the best 
ones are the young, said Lambda Sigma 
Community Services chair Patti Lassinger. 
[We want people to understand whats go|ng on.
The Presbyterian University Hospital and 
Childrens Hospital may have the most prosive transplant program in the U.S., said 
Arraez. Transplantation has become suc
cessful, but theres a shortage of available 
Drgans.
The drive, which started as a joint effort 
continued on page 2
photo by Mike Pilewski
A large monolith of proportions 1:4:9 appeared on the Cut Thursday night as promotion for a fraternity party.imaged water fountain floods wing
Morewood resident points out the remains of the damaged water fountain.
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
Residents of Morewoods B Tower were 
awakened by the sound, sight and smell of 
gushing water early Saturday morning when 
a fourth floor water fountain was discovered 
disconnected from its water pipes.
Morewood resident Lori Brassaw said she 
was awakened at about three a.m. by the 
sound of rushing water. She called Security 
when she saw the nearby fountain hanging 
halfway off the wall. It looked like a Three 
Stooges skit with the water gushing out. 
Security arrived at the scene shortly after
wards and summoned Physical Plant 
workers, who shut off the water and sealed 
the leaky pipe.
When asked if she knew of any persons 
directly involved in damaging the fountain, 
Sue Kim, another Morewood resident, said 
she did not hear anyone in the hall prior to 
the discovery of the water. Youd think youd 
hear a lot of people.
The water, which started shooting up at
io lab uses student program
y ERIC SOLOMON
H Stoffwriter
a Sophomore Biology major Eric Rocher 
|as recently writte a useful computer pro 
am designed to search a list of physical 
nstants for 400 organic acids, 
h will be used for the Experimental 
Uniques I laboratory course.
The program is called Lavoisier after the 
ench chemist Antione Lavoisier 
J* 3 1794), who is responsible for disprov
es the old phlogiston theory and setting 
^nistry on its proper course. 
n lhe lab experiment, students prepare 
unknown organic acid and determine 
e of its physical properties. Prior to hav ' ^ Program, students had to search 
ugh two or three handbooks and usualPent an hour or more laboriously trying 
rr'au-h their experimental data with data
WitPOSSll>le comPun<*-
the Lavoisier program, which
resembles a 15-111 mastery exam, it takes less 
than a minute to complete a matchup.
In executing the program, students 
transfer the fde with the program to their 
TOPS directory from the instructors direc
tory, use it, then delete their own copy. A 
Macintosh computer in the lab can also be 
used to run the program during class,
The search and match program finds the 
correct acid nine out of ten times. In the 
tenth case, the student has made a mistake 
in the assay.
Lab instructor Dr. Charles Vandyke thinks 
that Eric's program has been very helpful in 
the experiment. He noted that what is par
ticularly clever about the program is that it 
assigns a weighting factor to each of the 
physical constants during the matchup.
For example, melting points are determin
ed quite accurately in the lab, but ex
perimental pKa values may differ a lot from 
literature values because of solvent and
temperature factors. Erics program adjusts 
for the reliability of the measurement.
Vandyke pointed out that he does not 
want the program to completely replace the 
students use of reference handbooks. He 
strongly recommends that students who use 
the program consult a handbook to confirm 
their choice by checking the color and 
solubility characteristics of the compound.
He said that the program makes this par
ticular experiment run more efficiently, and 
partially because of it, there will be now be 
time to extend the experiment to include the 
analysis of commercial Niacin vitamin 
tablets.
Vandyke says that he is now using PCs in 
his other classes as well. In his 09-106 Bon
ding and Structure course, he is developing 
exercises that have students analyze ex
perimental and theoretical data that are 
related to the subject under discussion
continued on page 3
the ceiling of the fourth floor corridor, 
quickly flooded the area, causing severe 
damage to third and second floor rooms.
According to a Housing Office source, the 
water caused the ceiling of one third floor 
room to collapse. The residents of that room 
spent the remainder of the night elsewhere, 
according to Morewood resident assistant 
Susan Jordan. They could not be reached 
for comment.
In a second floor room, Morewood resi
dent Susan Conaty awoke when her ceiling 
started to drip, then rain.
I had pails underneath it, but it wasnt 
helping, said Conaty, who returned the 
following day to find her room cleaned, but 
her ceiling light inoperable.
The incident left water stains on ceilings 
all the way down to the first floor and a 
damp, mildewy smell in the affected 
corridors.
Both Brassaw and Kim expressed concern 
about the costs of repairing the extensive 
damage. Its scary to think how much this 
will cost, Kim said. I dont know who will 
be charged for it.
In This Issue:
News
Railroad merger........................page 2
Features
Plain English............................page 5
Investment...............................page 7
Entertainment
Deep Purple...............................page 9
Sports
Men look into future. 
The Numbers Sheet..
.....page 21 
.....page 23
Valentines.......... ..........page 13
Acme.  ..................page 16

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
Railroad merger may cause job losses
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Pittsburghs blue-collar workers received 
yet another dose of bad news last Friday 
when Transportation Secretary Elizabeth 
Dole announced her intention to sell Conrail, the government-owned rail giant, to the 
Norfolk Southern Railroad.
The merger will result in the abandon
ment or downgrading of hundreds of miles 
of rail lines, many of which lie in western 
Pennsylvania, and the consolidation of many 
formerly competitive facilities, with the 
resulting job loss.
Norfolk Southern is itself the product of 
a merger, the 1982 amalgamation of the 
Southern Railway and the Norfolk and 
Western Railroad. The Southern traditional
ly dominated rail service in the the deep 
South, with a hub at Atlanta, while the Nor
folk and Western was known primarily as an 
Appalachian coal hauler, but also tied the 
Midwest together with the Virginia ports.
Conrail has already dispensed with the 
services of over half the workforce it initial
ly employed in 1976, when the corporation 
was formed to take over the lines of the Penn 
Central and several other bankrupt nor
theastern railroads.
This labor streamlining, along with the 
elimination of duplicate routes, are the 
primary reasons for the profitability of the 
rail giant, which expects to show a $500 
million net income in 1985.
The biggest facility Conrail operates in the 
region is Conway Yard in Beaver County. 
The yard is currently one of the railroads 
nerve centers, but that role could be jeopar
dized as Norfolk Southern diverts traffic 
away from Conrails New' York-Chicago line 
via Pittsburgh to its own more southerly line.
Employees at Conway are concerned that 
Norfolk Southern will divert traffic away 
from the Pittsburgh area, and that Norfolk 
Southern employees will be given preference 
for what jobs remain.
Employees at Conrails system repair shop 
at Altoona are also concerned about their 
future. Many suspect that the work done at 
Altoona will be diverted to Norfolk
Expected to be the 
hardest hit is local
ly based Pittsburgh 
and Lake Erie, 
already ailing from 
numerous area mill 
closings.
Southerns own facilities in Roanoke, Va., 
Decatur, 111., or Atlanta, Ga.
Norfolk Southern has moved to soothe 
these fears, admitting that while several 
thousand jobs may be lost, the people of Al
toona and Conway have nothing to fear. 
In fact, NS will raise Conrail salaries 15 per
cent, up to the prevailing national wage, and 
provide substantial severance benefits to any 
displaced employees.
A potentially larger source of job loss than 
that on Conrail are the detrimental effects 
of the merger on those railroads 
competing with the new system. Expected 
to be hardest hit is the locally-based Pitt
sburgh and Lake Erie, already ailing from 
numerous area mill closings.
mfiekLY &NGUWMS5624 BAUM BLVD.
ByKAR ENGYNc itN-w
deRoKrg a
n vuula
BARTEh/bE'R.S
Bus /D.SHWASHER.
buasNaa
Th cUtMctj^j^ up&cugj eai&v^.
t/fe/ JvQOu
SaJtLtnoUxy^
Z-OO 6--ooJ^.
The P&LE would be deprived of the Nor
folk Southern as a friendly connection on 
both ends, and might petition to be includ
ed in the merger. Otherwise, it may be ab
sorbed by the Chessie System, a competitor 
to both Conrail and NS which already sup
plies the P&LE with much of its traffic.
In either case, the P&LE repair shops at 
McKees Rocks would most likely be closed, 
and a substantial number of P&LE men 
would join many already unemployed col
leagues in looking for work.
A third alternative is extension via 
trackage rights over Conrail to reach new 
shippers, but many industry analysts doubt 
this would be a viable solution.
Also expected to be affected is the Chessie 
system, which also has a substantial presence 
in western Pennsylvania. The railroads 
shops in suburban Glenwood were closed 
several years ago, and company spokesmen 
were predicting dire effects in terms of job 
loss if the merger is consummmated. The 
railroad stated that it plans to do all in its 
power to block the consolidation of NS and 
Conrail.
Joining Chessie in the fight are many 
groups, including both Pennsylvanias 
senators, labor unions and Conrails own 
management. Conrail management, head
ed by CEO L. Stanley Crane (a former NS 
executive), had proposed selling the railroad 
to the public via a stock offering, and cited 
congressional testimony by investment 
bankers stating that the government could 
realize up to $400 million more that way 
than the $1.2 billion purchase price paid by 
NS.
Senators Heinz and Specter also supported 
a similar stock sale, while the labor unions
advocated the selection of rival bidder 
Alleghany Corporation, a substantial 
stockholder in Conrail predecessor New \0n' 
Central. Both alternatives would haveke 
the present management in place and 
Conrail operate as an independe-i 
railroad.
The Justice department has also thrown 
roadblocks in the way of the merger, citing 
12 potential areas of reduced competition 
A combination of this opposition, along witt 
congressional and private-sector objections 
could serve to delay, or even prevent the 
mergers consummation.Socie ties plan drive
continued from page 1
with Mortar Board chapters at other Pitt, 
sburgh colleges, will include a February ljj 
seminar at Pitt.
The seminar, to which high schi 
students from 167 Western Pennsylva: 
schools have been invited, will explain orj 
donorship and will encourage students 
start similar programs at their high school;
Arraez said that many young people art 
not donors; When youre young, 
like to think about dying.
He added, But when a young persoi 
dies, up to six people can benefit from that 
Families of young donors who have dii 
report that they feel better that the deal 
had some benefit, according to Arraez." 
something good to think about. 
Lassmger said that information tables 
interested CMU students will be set up 
Thursday and Friday in Baker Hall 
Skibo.
AB-COFFEEHOUSE PRESENTS
CRAl^ 
KAR' ^
re'CO
Feb. 15. 8:00 Wherrett Room
Craig Karges
A mystifying and entertaining presentation of ESPaf1^ 
magic that will leave you astonished.

---------------------------------------------------

February 12, 1985The TartanPage 3
A Phi O lists pledges
Special to The Tartan
Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega Na
tional Service Fraternity is proud to an
nounce its Spring 1985 pledge class. Twentyfive men and women pledged on Friday, 
February 8, 1985. The pledges are:
Karen Adelson, Toby Ayre, Todd Ber
nhard, Eric Borm, Scott Byer, Jim Carfagna, 
Mike Connolly, Hilary Fitch, Daniel Freed, 
Sarah Gaffen, Stephen Giamporc&ro, Loret
ta Graziani, Susan Hayden, Paul Jakabcsin, 
Stephanie Janczak, Teresa Keller, Ed 
Kenschaft, Adam Leong, Mark Levine, Brett 
Molotsky, Cathy Rang, Paula Sawyer, Amy 
Shaw, Liz Strohm, and Laura Wernikoff. 
This list includes potential pledges that were 
not present at the actual ceremony.
The pledge class has been named in honor 
of Kappa Chapters founder, Carl J. Long. 
The Pledgemaster for this class is David 
O'Leary. The brothers of A Phi O wish the 
^pledges the best of luck.
photo by Scot Allen
Students Wayne Mesard and Felicia Thibeault listen to Cecile Heckler, executive 
director of the Pennsylvanians for Human Life. Heckler spoke at The Basics of the 
Abortion Issue/ a forum held in Skibo* s Wherrett Room last Thursday evening.
Student's program will cut lab time
continued from page 1I
For example, students will shortly be us- ng the PC to calculate electronegativity data 
or cerain elements and then extend the alculation to predict the electronegativity 
)f the element xenon. The electronegativi- y of xenon is not yet given in textbooks.
Until new software is developed, he is hav- ig students use available software such as >hart, Multiplan, TK solver, Lotus 1-2-3, Ind Minitab.
The Macintosh can do some of the exerlises, but the IBM PC is needed for Minitab 
Ind the exercises involving plotting the
shapes of orbitals using Lotus.
Vandyke admits that he is still learning a 
lot about using the PC, particularly the IBM 
system and that its not unusual to see him 
getting information about a program from 
students after class or at one of the public 
clusters.
Chemistry department head Dr. Robert 
Birge also announced a new computer 
science track option to the BS in Chemistry. 
This program is pending review by the Col
lege Council.
The goal of the program, the first of its 
type in the nation, will be to prepare
students for computational chemistry, a field 
in which there are currently 5 openings for 
every job applicant.
The new option will entail fewer electives 
and possible loss of American Chemical 
Society Certification, Birge said. Current 
Sophomores will be the first to take the 
track.
Birge is encouraging all undergraduates 
to get involved in research. He said 
undergraduate research is a wonderful op
portunity which should be taken advantage 
of, especially by students interested in com
puting."
CMU profs 
promoted
PITTSBURGHMorris H. Degroot, 
William W. Mullins and D. Raj Reddy have 
been appointed university professors by 
Carnegie-Mellon University. University pro
fessorship is the highest honor the universi
ty can give a faculty member.
University professorship transcends the 
colleges and departments of the university 
and is awarded upon the recommendation 
of the other university professors at 
Carnegie-Mellon, CMU President Richard 
M. Cyert noted in announcing the 
appointments.
DeGroot, a member of the CMU faculty 
since 1957, is university professor of statistics 
and industrial administration. An interna
tionally prominent statistician, he has 
authored two books and has published wide
ly in his field.
Mullins, a member of the faculty since 1960, is university professor of applied 
science. He has been head of CMUs Depart
ment of Metallurgical Engineering and 
Materials Science and dean of its engineer
ing college. Since 1982 he has been director 
of the Center for the Study of Materials.
Reddy, who has been on the faculty since 1969, is university professor of computer 
science. Since 1980 he has been director of 
the universitys Robotics Institute. Reddy is 
internationally recognized for his work in 
robotics and artificial intelligence. Last 
spring he received the Cross of the Legion 
of Honor of France from President Francois 
Mitterrrand in ceremonies at CMU.
Want to be a 
Pre-College summer
Counselor?..............
June 20-August 4
...................................................
Applications available at 
Admissions Office in Warner 
Hall & Skibo Information Desk. 
Deadline for applications:
FEB. ............................................
 *To learn more, attend an in
formation session on WED., 
FEB. 13 in the Wherrett Room 
from 4:00 - 5:30 p.m.
The Greatest Gift
No matter how rich or poor; young 
or old you may be, you can give the 
greatest gift that one human being can 
give to another: the gift is the gift of 
life and health. . .
Organ Donor 
Awareness Drive
February 14th and 15th 
10:00 a.m.  6:00 p.m.
Skibo Baker Hall
Sponsored by' Mortar Board avid Lambda Sigma.

---------------------------------------------------

The meeting was called to order at 7:00 
Present:
Bach, Bett, Bianco, Cohen, Cramer, 
DeMetio, Den burg, Goldstein. Hamsun, Hynes, 
lekes, Jagerski, Kink, McCormick! Miller,
tan that will include exam} 
Student Senate has solved.
is so that 
: to occupy
difference last weekend.
its original date.
Affairs for use as student space.
student productions, just a copy of them.
Any interest in having a Faculty Senate 
member at Student Senated meetings as an ex 
officio member?
will start in two or three weeks.
The Rules committee should see Larry after 
the meeting.
All members of the executive committee 
should see Michael after the meeting.
Page 4The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
DRINKING AND DRIVING CAN KILL A FRIENDSHIP
Trivia contestants 
move toward finals
Four Really Official Trivia Contest 
teams of an original twenty-three will con
tend for their choice of $200 cash or an RCA 
Videocassette recorder. The competition, 
beginning on February 17 in the Wherrett 
Room in Skibo at 7 pm, is open to everyone.
The quarterfinal round was played on 
February 5 and 6. In the Red Bracket final, 
Sigma Nu-B dumped Pi Lamda Phi-A, 
58-29, in the highest scoring match so far. 
The Green Bracket final had Bubba and the 
Banshees holding on to squeak by The 
Schrefflers, 27-25. Delta Tau Delta, winners 
of a tiebreaker rematch the night before, us
ed a strong second round to oust The Budz, 
53-23, in the Black Bracket final. Finally, 
on the last question, the History Depart
ment, the lone faculty entry, edged Pi 
Lambda Phi-B in the Blue Bracket final, 
24-23.
The matchups, determined by points-pergame averages, will be top-seeded Sigma 
Nu-B (50.5 ppg) vs. fourth-seeded Bubba 
and the Banshees (25.0 ppg) at 7:00 pm, 
followed at 8:00 pm by second-seeded Delta 
Tau Delta (39.0 ppg) against the History 
Department (36.5 ppg), the third-seed. The 
winners will play at 9:15 pm.
The game is a cross between a college 
bowl and bingo. The gameboard consists of 
25 squares, each corresponding to a ques
tion. These are broken down into five ' 
categories (columns) of five questions each. 
The categories are Current Events, Campus
Trivia, Science and Engineering, Sports and 
Entertainment, and Miscellaneous.
Depending on the result of the previous 
question, one team is given the right to pick 
the question to be asked. The team that cor
rectly answers the question scores one point 
and gains control of that square.
Any sequence of four squares either 
horizontally, vertically, or diagonally scores 
four bonus 'points. Any sequence of five 
scores nine bonus points. Before the round, 
two squares are declared as free spaces (just 
like the center square in bingo) and either 
team may use it to make sequences. There 
are two rounds in a match.
The questions consist of two types, 
multiple-choice and toss-up. The teams 
have cards labelled A through D which they 
use to give their answers to multiple-choice 
questions, and both teams answer 
simultaneously. If both teams are correct, 
then the square becomes a free space. In a 
toss-up, the first individual to raise his hand 
gets first crack at the answer.
As the preliminary round indicated, a 
score of 25 points or higher was rarely 
beaten, and in only three of the twenty-one 
matches played did a team answer more 
questions correctly and lose. Teams who got 
one or more five-sequences also rarely lost.
The Really Official Trivia Contest is 
sponsored, developed, and officiated by 
Cadets in the Carnegie-Mellon University 
ROTC unit.
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
EXPANDED
Now Every Sunday through Thursday 
7:00 - 10:00 PM
CALCULUS 
PRE, I, II, III 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGLISH WRITING 
INTRO TO COMPUTING 
Sponsored by Student
PH 225B
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
PH 125B 
WeH 5415
Affairs and
Counseling and Student Development
Center.
The Oakland Review is now accep
ting submissions of poetry, short fic
tion, one-act plays, essays, and blackand-white artwork and photographs 
for its 1985 edition. Submissions may 
be placed in care of the Editor, 
Oakland Review, at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk. For any questions or 
special accommodations call 
Cathleen Barnhart at 362-3787. 
Deadline for submissions is March 1*
funded by activities fee
WRCT 88.3 FM
proudly presents
CARSICKNESS and 
THE BATS
Two very popular 
bands in a FREE 
performance of their music
Sunday, Feb. 17 at 1 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
To survey plain language legislation and develop programs in plain English
Victuals
Spirits
sive th 
appetizers
Winberies specialty is cheese, and prac
Plain English
Professor continues struggle for communication
By JEFF HENDRIX
Tartan Staffuiriter
How about saying that again in plain
English?
If you can read that sentence, chances are 
you remember having said it yourself at one 
time. Life in the English speaking world is 
full of ambiguities. For instance, have you 
ever had trouble understanding an instruc
tion manual? You know, those handy little 
things that are supposed to tell you all about 
how to do something, such as how to operate 
a computer, for example. Then again, the 
mere mention of such things as income tax 
forms or insurance policies strike fear in the 
hearts of the bravest.
So, why doesnt somebody do something 
I about it?
The Plain English Forum
Well, somebody is and that somebody is 
I Professor Erwin Steinberg of, what else, the 
English Department. In fact, his involveIment in the promotion of plain English has 
taken several tracks, one of them being his 
active participation in The Plain English 
I Forum, which held the first of a series of 
jconferences at Carnegie-Mellon on March 
|23rd of last year.
The membership of The Plain English 
IForum, which ranges from government ofIficials and business people to academic 
leaders and legal experts, all share a com
mon goal: the promotion of clear comInunication. Among their numerous goals 
ind ambitions are:
To stimulate business and government in
terest in clear communication.
To track plain English programs and keep 
the business, government, and educational 
communities informed about them.
confer with lawmakers on plain language 
issues.
To encourage schools and colleges to
Dr. Erwin Steinberg introduced the program in Technical Writing and Editing, the 
first of its kind, in 1958.
communication.
In field since 1958
This last goal is where Steinberg has taken 
the lead. Ive been interested in this field 
for a long time, said Steinberg. In 1958 I 
was the one that introduced the Bachelor of 
Science in Technical Writing and Editing. 
However, his accomplishments in promoting 
clear communication do not stop here.
Steinberg has also co-authored a book 
with William M. Schutte of Lawrence 
University, which is titled Communication 
in Business and Industry. According to 
Steinberg, the first edition was published in 
1960, and Steinberg and Schutte worked on 
the latest editon, which was published in 
1983, for 3 or 4 years. The book covers a 
wide range of topics including writing let
ter, memos and business reports; economy, 
clarity, and unity of language; reading, 
listening and speaking; and a subject of 
primary importance to any profession, ap
plying for a job. When asked as to how 
research was conducted for the book, 
Steinberg replied,  . . . essentially it comes 
out of my consulting experience.
Application to real problems
Virtually all of Steinbergs practical ap
plication, including the technical writing 
program, stems from his extensive consulta
tion experience with companines like 
Westinghouse and Alcoa. Ive been con
sulting since about 1950, so I have a lot of 
experience in that field, and thats why I 
started the (program). In fact, problems 
continued on page 8
Winberie's.This cellar in Shadyside a sure bet for romance, cappuccino or fondue
j$y LESLIE HOTHERSALL
to The Tartan 
If youre looking for a romantic, 
uropean-style restaurant which is mediumin price, J.B. Winberie (formerly The 
pheese Cellar) in Shadyside is my favorite.
Its more expensive than C.J. 
Barneys but if you can't get your 
date to pay, its still less expenthan Le Bistro.
and desserts can jack up 
bill (or your dates bill), but dont 
to go unless youre willing to make 
his financial sacrifice. The pre-meal and 
'ost-meal delicacies distinguish Winberies 
fom other restaurants.
Another feature unique to Winberies is 
the cheese board. For $6.75 you get to 
choose four kinds of cheeses from an array 
of eight. The dearly departed Cheese Cellar 
used to have a wider selection from many 
countries. The current selection features 
common cheeses from only four countries, 
including America. It is still an enjoyable 
appetizer, and it comes with crusty french 
bread and fresh fruit.
Winberies selection of desserts is typical, 
except for my favorite: their chocolate fon
due. The menu describes it perfectly as 
warm, rich chocolate laced with liqueur 
served with chunks of fresh fruit, mar
shmallows and cubes of pound cake.
It is worth every cent of the $5.95 that I 
try to get my boyfriend to pay. The chocolate 
is seme-sweet but not bitter, and the fruit 
is always fresh. When I go with my 
boyfriend, I have to eat the strawberries 
quickly, or he will get them all.
The Cheese Cellar used to offer a second 
kind of fondue made with strawberries, wine
and cheese. It was as good as the chocolate, 
and I dont know why it was discontinued.
The second part of dessert, cappuccino, 
should never be left out. The mocha taste 
it leaves in your mouth stays with you for the 
rest of the evening. Winberies cappuccinos 
are laced with several liqueurs. The strangely 
unique blend of espresso, chocolate, cream, 
brandy, rum, gin, galliano and cream de 
cacao imparts a liqueur-like warmth without 
an alcoholic bite. At $2.75 a cup, my 
boyfriend can usually only afford to get me 
one, but when Im paying, we sometimes 
splurge. If cappuccino is too rich or expen
sive, the coffee is always fresh.
An appetizer and dessert are usually 
enough for me (especially if Im paying), but 
I will touch briefly on the entrees.
Cheese fondue is the only entree that is 
unusual. It is the same as the appetizer, but 
in larger portions and prices ($8.50 and 
$9.95). Entrees range from $5.75 for pasta 
primavera to $13.95 for peppered strip steak. 
There are several different pasta dishes, a
few seafood dishes, and some chicken and 
veal selections. Sandwiches range from $3.95 
to $4.95 and burgers can be had from $4.50 
to $5.25.
The wine list is fairly average. Around 
half the selections can be ordered by the 
glass. The most expensive white wine 
($23.00) is the Pouilly Fuisse, Louis Jadot, 
Macon (France). The other whites range 
from $9.00 to $16.00. The reds range from 
$12.00 to $22.00. A limited selection of roses, 
sparkling wines, ports and sherries is also 
available.
As you can probably tell, Winberies is one 
of my favorite restaurants. Wine-bottle-lined 
walls, dark tapestries, dim lighting and 
hardwood tables make for a romantic Euro
pean atmosphere, and the waiters and 
waitresses are friendly but not bothersome. 
Stop in for dessert and cappuccino, even if 
you (or your date) cant afford a full dinner.
J.B. Winberie is located at 738 Bellefonte, 
just off of Walnut Street in Shadyside.
every appetizer comes with cheese, 
you can get common appetizers like 
fried cheese or onion soup, my choicefondue.
There are two types  cheddar and beer 
and emmenthal and gruyere 
Each comes with chunks of crusty 
bread and fresh apple slices. This apsuits two people, and according to
, . If a lady loses her bread cubes in
fond
her ri
ue> she pays with a kiss to the man 
nght. If a man loses, he buys the next 
j f drinks.
Can never get my boyfriend to buy a 
of anything, but he always manages 
Clai1 his kiss.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
College Republicans advisor tells of futureSteady economic growth to set expansion for rest of century
By DAVID MOSKOWITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The November election was more than a 
personal victory for Ronald Reagan. It was 
a mandate for the future, a signal to stay 
the course.
Perhaps singlehandedly, 
Reagan has unleashed in 
country a spirit of selfand natural pride, 
perhaps unseen here for thirty years. He has 
given us a basis for our pride: an America 
stronger, freer, and more prosperous than 
before.
We were constantly told 
that America is a terrible 
place. Finally, someone has 
said, weve got problems, 
but heres what's right about 
us.
David Patti, Advisor to the CMU College 
Republicans, agrees that the second Reagan 
term will be characterized by economic 
growth. Says Patti, During the next four 
years, you wont necessarily see short term 
gains. Growth wont be spectacular. Instead, 
you will see a lot of positive, moderate signs 
that the economy is going strong. Patti feels 
this steady economic growth will set the 
tone for the rest of the century.
Patti is an M.S. candidate in Public
Management and Public-Policy Analysis at 
SUPA. His experience includes research and 
policy analysis for the Pennsylvania state 
Senate, as well as working for Congressman 
Christopher Smith, for whom he has writ
ten floor speeches.
Look at education and crime
Patti describes President Reagan as con
servative in rhetoric, yet pragmatic in prac
tice. He feels the President will take a 
politically safer route, enacting programs to 
spur the economy rather than outright cut
ting people from the roles of support. With 
the economy strong, we can now look at 
other matters such as education and crime, 
he remarks.
When President Reagan visits college 
campuses nowadays, he hears chants of 
USA. When he was governor of California, 
visiting a campus would cause a riot. This 
new patriotism by younger Americans is seen 
by Patti as a reaction to the past. He says, 
We were constantly told that America is a 
terrible place. Finally, someone has said, 
weve got problems, but heres whats right 
about us.
Second American Revolution*
He goes on to say,  The youth are excited 
about feeling good about America again 
and of a President they can be proud of. 
He feels the Second American Revolution 
will be an exciting time to be alive.
Patti feels the student body at CMU is 
fairly conservative, while the professors are 
the liberals. While putting up Reagan-Bush
posters for the election, he recalls that most 
of the harrassment received came from the 
faculty.
In his State of the Union address last 
Wednesday, President Reagan has set a 
course for the future of this country. Quoting 
the President, the word freedom  is the 
key to the Second American Revolution we 
mean to bring about.
The direction of the President and of the 
Republican Party, as outlined in the State 
of the Union address, comes as no shock. It 
is the same message we have been hearing
for the last four years. Just as the first Reagan 
term was characterized by economic growth, j 
the economy appears the first of priorities | 
for a second Reagan term.
Most Republicans, as well as many I 
Democrats, are calling for tax simplification, I 
a plan to lower personal and corporate in 
come tax and reduce the many incremental I 
tax brackets to three. This approach has pro I 
ved effective in 1981, increasing incentive I 
and rewarding productivity. The program I 
will almost certainly be enacted, since there j 
continued on pa
FRESHMAN ORIENTATION 1985
CAMP/CAMPUS COUNSELORS
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT 
SKI BO INFORMATION DESK 
RETURN APPLICATIONS TO DESK 
BY MARCH 1, 1985

---------------------------------------------------

-T1
Exalted Playing that glows
with expressive warmth and vitality.  LONDON TIMES
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society
presents
ir^Ci0f1^^rope
Alexander Schneider, Conductor 
Cecile Licad, Pianist
Dvorak's Serenade for Strings 
Beethoven's Piano Concerto No. 3 
Mozart's Symphony No. 38 (Prague)
Tickets: $15,12; Student and Senior Citizen Half Price:
$7.50, 6 at Heinz Halt box Office and Pitt/CMU/Duquesne 
Student Unions. Or Call TicketCharge: 392-4900.
Thursday, Feb. 14, 8:00 PM 
ICamegie Music Hall Oakland
February 12, 1985The TartanPage 7
Strong market produces propelling demand
Reagan to receive bipartisan support
White Witch: My oue 
today and always.
By CHRIS GRONDWALSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
If you havent become rich in the past 
month, youre either a typical college stuwith no money or you havent been watig the stock market.
The Dow-Jones Industrial 
average, an index that includes 
thirty of the nations largest in
dustrial stocks, has reached new 
Since the beginning of January, 
the Dow-Jones has climbed over 100 points 
from 1180 to almost 1300. Not wanting to 
be left out, the rest of the market followed 
suit, with advancing issues surpassing declinissues for a record 9 successive davs.
This question is more easily answered if the 
reasons behind this recent advance are ex
amined. Market strength is affected by 
numerous factors, including interest rates, 
money supply figures, corporate earnings 
reports, and government policies. In the past 
month interest rates have dropped consider
ably, causing a shift from low yielding 
bonds into the higher yielding equity 
market. In addition, the Federal Reserve 
Boards monetary policy has been one of 
maintaining economic growth. Finally, the 
corporate profit outlook has been quite 
good. In light of this, most analysts feel that 
the market will continue its upward climb.
Finance will appear weekly in The Tar
tan and is written in coordination with the 
Investment Club.
be enacted without bipartisan support. 
Judgin from recent statements from 
Democratic leaders, it appears bipartisan 
support will be forthcoming. At a news con
ference, Jerry Michael, spokesman for the 
Democratic National Committee, stated We 
needed to tell the American people we were 
wrong.
The Democrats reply to the State of the 
Union address was not a concerted attack 
on the President but a statement that the 
(Democratic) party must move beyond its 
New Deal origins and prove its capacity for 
fiscal responsibility. The only time Walter 
Mondales name was mentioned was in a 
statement from a voter, criticizing him for 
advocating tax increases.
Maybe it was ABCs decision to air 
Dynasty over the Democrats reply that 
prompted Governor Clinton of Arkansas to 
state, This is a party that knows it has to 
change. Such statements by Democrats 
point towards many Republican proposals 
becoming economic reality.
neans, an advancing issue is a stock that 
noves up in price while a declining issue is 
pne that moves down in price. Stock market 
has been especially high also, and 
[s those of us who have studied economics 
when prices rise on high volume, there 
excessive demand.
Where will the market go in the future?
continued from page 6
appears to be strong support for it 
throughout Congress. Many Democrats have 
stopped describing tax cuts as gifts to the 
Rich, noting that after the 1981 cuts, the 
rich were paying a greater percentage of 
total taxes than before.
The President asked for enterprise zones, 
providing tax incentives and abatements to
employers that hire workers from depressed 
areas.
The President restated his belief that the 
best way to reduce government spending is 
to reduce the need for spending by increas
ing prosperity, claiming that each added 
percentage point per year of G.N.P. growth 
will reduce the deficit by nearly $200 billion 
over five years. The president said govern
ments claim to our economy must be 
lightened. Reminiscent of Earnest Hollings 
presidential campaign, President Reagan 
called for a freeze on government spending 
in the 1986 budget. Two exceptions to this 
proposal are spending for the elderly, disabl
ed, and unemployed and the military. The 
President promoted elimination of costly 
government regulation and subsidies, citing 
airline deregulation as a positive example 
and calling for the transition to a marketoriented farm economy.
No matter how hard these or other 
economic proposals are promoted by the 
President and other Republicans, they cant
(( AIM HIGH ^

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
Steinberg testifies in plagiarism case
continued from page 5
that Steinberg confronts while consulting are 
directly incorporated into the graduate 
courses for professional and technical 
writing.
Steinberg views it as an attempt to give 
the students an opportunity to take the 
theory that they learn in other courses in 
both rhetoric and linguistics, and apply 
those principles to real problems.
Although Steinbergs work is also closely 
related to the graduate program in rhetoric, 
he still focuses on application. Ive done 
with (Professor) Kaufer, for example, some 
original work in linguistics, but not 
theoretical work again. It arises out of reallife writing problems, Steinberg said. Weve 
worked on nominal compounds and what we 
call the anaphoric this. This shows that. 
This what? How can you tell what this ap
plies to and what sort of tests can you set up 
in order to know whether you can let that 
this stand alone, or whether you have to 
throw in this idea, this concept, this pro
blem, or this something? However, his ap
plication of theory goes far beyond the 
anaphoric this.
An example of one of the many uses of 
writing theory can be found in Steinbergs 
current involvement with a law firm and a 
copyright violation case on a manual. He 
is being used as an expert witness and while
rPfiTHHrc
tle'TP BywwH
/VVixaiAJi rtwnecKMH 
\/M HI tfK) TIAK WH
Apliciaat oyr ep
HHKOAA TAKC 4>OPM. 
BO/lAH M KHOi/H 
/ CtAbEPWa! ,DECISIONS, DECISIONS, DECISIONS. . .
Almost time for H&SS sophomores to make final deci
sions about declaring their major, and time for 
freshmen to begin thinking seriously about the choices 
and options available. H&SS departments have plann
ed presentations and information sessions for pro
spective majors according to the following schedule:
Psychology Tuesday, Feb. 12 BH 336B
Cognitive Psychology 4:30 p.m.
Social Psychology 
Developmental Psychology
Modern Languages Tuesday, Feb. 12 BH 246A
French 4:00 p.m.
German
Spanish
Industrial Management Wednesday, Feb. 13 GSIA Main
4:30 p.m. Auditorium
History Thursday, Feb. 14 BH 254C
History 4:30 p.m.
Applied History
Statistics Monday, Feb. 18 BH 132
5:00 p.m.
English Tuesday, Feb. 19 BH 245
Technical Writing 5:00 p.m.
Professional Writing
Creative Writing
Literary and Cultural Studies
Economics Wednesday, Feb. 20GS1A Masters
Lounge
Economics 5:30 p.m.
Managerial Economics
AND
EVERYTHING
NICE
will be selling fresh-cut flowers during 
Valentines Day in Skibo Grey Matter 
9:30  5:30. Orders for delivery can be 
placed Wed. 5  7 in Skibo 58.
\o sale Friday 2/15
FRESH ROSES, 
CARNATIONS, 
AND BUNCHES
PhilosophyThursday, Feb. 21 
3:00 p.m.
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available 
easily accessible by bus from CMU
MasterCard, Visa 
Call appointment239 Fourth Ave., Suite 217, Downtown 
281-4770
'Anaphoric this' examined

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Deep Purple return as rock's Perfect Strangers
my
Photo by Ross Marino/Creem 
Ritchie Blackmore and his Stratocaster
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter
It was inevitable. With the Who, Vanilla 
I Fudge, the Animals, and Yes, all popular 
' late-sixties, early-seventies bands, reforming 
and performing a farewell or reunion tour, 
you had to wonder who was next. In the 
summer of 84, the rumours started. Pro
moters were trying to get members of the 
greatest transitional heavy metal band of all 
time, Deep Purple, to leave their respective 
solo projects and reunite.
- In the late sixties, musical trends stemmled from a fusion of the fifties blues style and
the early sixties rock n protest style. Early 
heavy bands Led Zepplin, Black Sabbath, 
the Doors, and Cream all featured a blues 
sound, particularly in their first albums.
Deep Purple was formed from the rem
nants of the experimental/classical band, 
Episode Six (Jon Lord, Ian Paice, Ritchie 
Blackmore), in 1968. Adding Nick Simper 
on bass and Rod Evans on guitar, they put 
out their first album, Shades of Deep Pur
ple. The material was not exceptional, nor 
did it do much to distinguish Purple from 
any of their contemporaries, and album sales 
were not surprisingly poor.
Their first 1969 release, The Book of 
Taliesyn, received a similar response, but 
their second, Deep Purple, featuring their 
first hit single, Hush, was a success. In 1970, 
Evans and Simpler left the band to be 
replaced by Ian Gillan and Roger Glover, 
respectively, in time to perform in one of the 
most unusual modern music experiments, 
Concerto for Group and Orchestra, by Jon 
Lord. This is quite as it sounds; The Lon
don Symphony Orchestra and Deep Purple 
trading sounds in one coherent piece. 
Televised form the Royal Albert Hall, the 
show was a smashing success.
Gillan and Glover stuck with the band 
through their most prolific years, 1970-1974. 
Purple put out six albums, four studio (In 
Rock, 1970; Fireball, 1971; Machine Head, 
1972; and Who do we think we are?, 1973), 
one live (Made in Japan, 1972), and a 
greatest hits (Best of Deep Purple, 1972). 
Machine Head stands today as one of the few 
perfect heavy metal albums ever produced.
From 1974-1978, the bands lineup swit
ched every few months form David Coverdale on vocals and John Hughes on bass to 
Gillan and Glover, the former pair featured
on Burn and Stormbringer (1974), Come 
Taste the Band (1975), Made in Europe 
(1976), and Last Concert in Japan (1977); the 
latter on 24 Carat Purple (1975, a greatest 
hits album), Purple Passages (1975), 
Powerhouse (1977), and When We Rock, We 
Rock (1978). Ritchie Blackmore was replac
ed by Tommy Bolin on Come Taste the Band 
and Last Concert In Japan.
Including one other compilation, The 
Singles (1978), Purple put out a total of 
twenty albums in half as many years quite 
prolific by any standards. The root of their 
success was their ability to take the
Purple broke up in 1978 in the wake of 
egoist battles between the members, particulary Lord and Blackmore. In 1976, 
Blackmore formed Ritchie Blackmores 
Rainbow, a fine heavy rock band, featuring 
Ronnie James Dio on vocals. Glover and 
Gillan later moved on to form name bands, 
while Lord and Paice continued to work 
together.
1984 found Blackmore and Glover in 
Rainbow, a band on the decline, Gillan in 
Black Sabbath trying to follow in the oh-solarge footsteps of Ozzy Osbourne and Dio, 
and Lord and Paice with Coverdale in
* Photo by Bob Leafe/Creem
Ian Paice, Ian Gillan, Jon Lord, a fan, and Roger Glover celebrate the reign of Purple
blues/rock amalgam and mould it into a 
faster, heavier form. They are one of the few 
heavy bands to successfully use the organ 
without detracting from the overall pace and 
crunch of their sound.
Talking Heads stop making sense
I
By KRISTOPHER KOHUTH
Tartan Staffwriter 
Yet another concert movie comes to town. 
^Thankfully, however, its the Talking Heads 
conceptual Stop Making Sense , and they 
oreathe new life and meaning into this much 
abused class of film. Stop Making Sense is 
concert film, but where everyone from 
)avid Bowie to the Rolling Stones have failpd (the latter horribly), the Talking Heads 
Snanage to succeed at catching on film the 
quality, intensity, and intelligence of their 
Jive performances.
rncert Movie___________
The majority of the films success is due 
If0 the bands lead singer-songwriter and 
jeeper of the Big Suit: David Byrne. His 
typnotic presence provides the nucleus 
around which the rest of the band is form
ed, both figuratively and literally. The film 
pens with Byrne alone on a bare stage per
forming an acoustic Psycho Killer. The rest 
St>f the band, Tina Weymouth on bass guitar, 
TrrY Harrison on keyboards, and Chris 
jpantz on drums, are introduced one by one 
rth each successive song; and the stage is 
'radually fitted with everything from rearProjection screens to an assortment of bongo 
FUms; thus symbolically tracing the 
rvelopment of the band itself. Such symNism saturates the film, giving it alook of 
r^nt-garde while carefully avoiding the 
hbolic pretense of Pink Floyds The Wall.
Pretense is exactly what one expects to
Jnd in 
ears
a concert film; a medium which appromising in theory but often 
Serializes as little more than an outlet for 
^gratification and publicity  the stuff 
'hich Spinal Tap was made to parody. Stop 
faking Sense avoids concert movie cliches 
backstage footage. Director Jonathan 
mme is well aware of both the bands
quality and the intensity of Byrnes ap
pearance; he never feels the need to inter
rupt the films pace by dragging the viewer 
offstage. The editing is appropriate for each 
song, either slowing to a crawl or building 
in an explosive crescendo. Similarly, the 
minimal lighting is used to visualize the 
bands music, and not, as is often the case, 
to distract the viewer from subpar in
strumentation. Swamp is played against 
blood red screens; and on What a Day That 
Was, the band is illuminated from below, 
transforming Byrnes hollow face into a liv
ing skull and enhancing the songs already 
haunting sound. An expanded version of the 
band is used, including the aforemention
ed bongos and two back up singers that lend 
the film an air of African mysticism.
The entire performance is no less 
brilliant. Brian Eno, responsible for the pro
duction overkill on the later, more idiosyn
cratic Talking Heads albums, had no part 
in the making of this film. As a result, the 
Talking Heads music finally gets the 
stronger rhythm and blues treatment it has 
always deserved. They play less art and more 
music, and the film contains some of the 
most accesible Heads music to date.
Byrne briefly disappears from the stage 
while bass player Tina Weymouth and 
drummer Chris Frantz perform as The Tom 
Tom Club, singing a tribute to, appropriate
ly enough, the king of soul James Brown. 
It is hard not to compare the Heads inspired 
performance here to Browns own legendary 
Appolo concert. David Byrne returns wear
ing his Big Suit to continue his vocals and 
frenetic dancing.
David Byrne is both an excellent musician 
and a true artist (the first does not guarantee 
the second) and is credited for conception 
of this stage production. He uses almost 
every element of stage and screen to aid the 
bands communication to the audience.
With Stop Making Sense he revitalizes and 
extends the possibilities of a concert film. 
Stop Making Sense puts many other concert 
movies to shame; or, to use the inevitable 
pun, is the first recent concert film that 
makes sense.
Whitesnake, one of Britains most popular 
metal acts. What, exactly, led them to put 
on hold these other projects to bury their 
egos and reform? Perhaps a search for old 
glory. Perhaps money. And perhaps it just 
sounded like a good idea at the time...
Whatever the reason, Perfect Stranger hit 
the airwaves in December and Lord, Paice, 
Blackmore, Glover and Gillan hit town on 
24 February. Concert-goers can expect a 
catalogue of older hits (Highway Star, My 
Woman from Tokyo, Space Truckin, and 
of course, Smoke on the Water) plus some 
current offerings, and hopefully, a good jam 
session. See you there!
FG: What's the Skinny?
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
Whats the Skinny?, this weeks exhibition 
at the Forbes Gallery, features art work by 
senior sculptors Marty Moldovan and Chugger Von Voetsch and senior industrial 
designer Eve Waldron. The exhibition opens 
this evening at 7:00. The opening has the 
added attractrion of live music by Yonny and 
the Hamster Man, a bass and bassoon 
combo.
Moldovans exhibited work includes a 
number of large scale, figurative sculptures 
in mixed media as well as working drawings 
for his sculptures.
I look for something that has some form 
of humanism that leads to the human figure 
in my work, said Moldovan.
Both Moldpvan and fellow scuptor Von 
Voetsch believe that there is currently a 
movement in art back to figurative forms of 
expression.
Were all human beings, and the figure 
offers a form of universal expression, said 
Moldovan. All of my influences are figural, 
though some of my pieces are sort of ar
chitectural.
All of my construction processes are basic 
reactions to materials, be it clay, steel, or 
whatever, said Moldovan.
Von Voetsch also exhibits large scale, 
figurative sculptures, mostly of concrete and 
clay. Von Voetsch believes his work to be in
dicative of the resurgence of figurative 
sculpture.
Figurative sculpture is one form of look
ing into an inner self. Its a form of 
humanism, said Von Voetsch. Ninety per
cent of what you see in the Doherty Hall 
studios right now is figurative work."
In the 80s everything has that crisp, 
clean, I want it by Monday aspect to it, 
said Von Voetsch. Its a lack of humanism. 
The figure becomes the vehicle to draw an 
artist back into himself.
Waldrons pieces are on a smaller scale 
than those of her fellow exhibitors. Her work 
includes a set of bud vases that have as their 
influence dime store style religious and 
decorative ceramics.
Waldron believes her background in in
dustrial design to be important in terms of 
her current work. These pieces represent 
my attempt to make works that are both 
functional and truly beautiful," said 
Waldron.
An element of humor is also evident in 
Waldrons work. I like to create the kind of 
pieces you can use as well as place on your 
t.v. and just look at, said Waldron.
Whats the Skinny? runs through February 
17 at the gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue. 
Gallery hours are 11:00 to 6:00, Wednesday 
through Friday, and noon to 6:00, Saturday 
and Sunday. The artists especially encourage 
the campus community to attend the exhibi
tion because of the added festivities of open
ing night being Lincoln's Birthday and 
Valentines day being later in the week," said 
Moldovan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
The Spectator considers The Three Sisters
By JONATHAN STEELE
Special to The Tartan
In the last nine years of his life, Chekhov 
turned seriously to drama and wrote the six 
plays for which he is considered a titan of 
the modem theater. In 1901 he married Olga 
Knipper, an actress with the Moscow Art 
Theater; and this company produced his last 
four plays. During the MAT production of 
The Cherry Orchard, Chekhov argued with 
Stanislavsky, the director, over interpreta
tion. Chekhov insisted that the characters 
should be treated as more comic than selfpitying and tragic. The subtle delineation 
of character is one of the factors that makes 
Chekhovs work difficult, and many a pro
duction has gone down the tubes because it 
did not balance the elements of comedy and 
tragedy.
Chekhov was a great innovator. His plays 
create an atmosphere of fin de siecle Rus
sian gentry in decay and portray subtle com
plex moods in varied groups of people. His 
assortment of characters are like colors on 
a pallate, and he uses an almost pointilliste, 
impressionistic technique. Chekhov was a 
sensitive observer of human behavior. His 
writing captures the underlying meaning of
communication, beneath the explicit. 
Therefore, the focus in his plays shifts to the 
subtext of lines and to the silence between 
lines.
The Spectator
The Three Sisters takes place in a garrison 
town in Provincial Russia, late in the 19th 
century. The action spans 3V6 years and 
follows the attempts of the three Prozorov 
sisters to achieve their dreams and desires. 
Moscow symbolized their nostalgic memories 
of the past and also hope for the future. 
However, they are doomed to finish their 
lives on their rural estate, under the thumb 
of their vulgar, crass sister-in-law, Natasha.
All three sisters fail to accomplish their 
aims. Masha loses the great, secret passion 
of her life and is left with her boorish 
schoolmaster husband. Irinas finance dies 
in a duel, and she loses her hope to move 
to Moscow. Olga had hoped to find mean
ing in life by throwing herself into her work 
as a schoolmistress, but the futility of it puts 
her into despair. Although the present lives 
of the characters seem hopeless, and the play
ends with their world broken up, the sisters 
look to the future with optimism.
The parts of the three sisters were played 
with competence and intelligence by Val 
Olney as Olga, Kathleen Morales as Masha, 
and Ann Altieri as Irina. They could have 
had more intensity of pain and despair, but 
they all had strong moments in the final act, 
especially Morales. Kim Connolly as 
Natasha also was competent but never seem
ed as vulgar and crass as she should have. 
Craig Waletzko was the brother, Andrei, 
who almost gambles away the family estate. 
The family was played in a realistic style with 
the rest of the cast correctly drawn more as 
character types. These included Jim Nardini 
as an old doctor, Marcus Lovett as the 
cuckolded school teacher, James Shanta as 
the teutonic Baron, and Yussef el Guindi as 
an old peasant. Other roles were played by 
John Gribben, Steven de Lauter, Judi Hoff
man, Michael Hartson, Dan Munnely, Ted 
Manier, and Michael Schaeffer.
Hafiz Karmalis direction successfully 
combined the elements of pathos and 
humor. He revealed subtextual meanings
and illuminated the circuitousness 0f 
Chekhovian communication. Karmali also 
contructed a varied spectrum of comic and 
pathetic characters. However, the soldiers 
were only marginally military; and the 
women as a whole were not portrayed as 
boldly as the men. The movement and ar
rangement of the actors was handled well 
but some entrances and exits could have 
been cleaner. The production was good 
visually, but the candle light in the second 
act went on too long.
The set design by Natalie Wilvers work
ed satisfactorily. The bleakness of the garden 
in the fourth act was very good, but the 
perimeter of the space in the first three was 
not clear. Janet Loewensteins lighting was 
uneven, with the second act being simply too 
dark. Sound design was by Matthew Lesher. 
Bonnie Bauters costumes acceptably sug 
gested the period but seemed more effective 
for the men than the women.
The Three Sisters is an MFA Project 
presented in the Studio Theater February 8, 
9, 11, 12.
RCBB presents Bach & Handel
DiCesare-Engler Present
The Outrageously Funny
RODKEY DANGERFIELD
U* classic
-1 t>lus Hl\ 
Tlft -UneT0^e'
2 SHOWS 
SAT Feb. 16 
7:30  10:00 pm
Reserved tickets at all National 
Record Marts, Oasis and Hornes 
Dept. Stores. To charge by phone 
Call 363-0500 Visa/Mastercard acc..SYRIA MOSQUE
5th Avenue & Bigelow Blvd. 621-3333
The River City Brass Band opens its 
winter series of concerts with By George! By 
Jack!, a celebration of the 300th birthdays 
of George Frederic Handel and Johann 
Sebastian Bach. Countrary to the usual wor
shipful view of these two musical giants, 
RCBB treats them in a way more in keep
ing with their real human natures  
vigorous, quarrelsome, virile men of the 
world. Featured are Handels Water Music 
Suite, Bachs Toccata and Fugue in D Minor, 
and the American premiere of Grodon 
Langfords Harmonious Variations On A 
Theme By Handel.
In keeping with RCBB tradition, several 
principal players will be featured as soloists. 
Karen Sloneker, solo cometist, will perform 
the lyrical Air by Johann Mattheson, a con
temporary of Handels, and David Piecka, 
solo horn, will perform Handels Siciliana 
And Giga. David will later join his fellow 
members of the Fine Arts Brass Quintet, 
Bernard Black, Denis Colwell, Glenn
Wayland, and David Knapp, in presenting 
Whats a Fugue Like You Doing In a Place 
Like This? Music Director Robert Bernat 
will describe the aristry of the fugue as the 
Quintet performs Bachs Fugue in G Minor 
(The Little). Rounding out the program are 
Handels Largo from Xerxes, Bachs Air from 
Suite in D Major, and the audience singalong, A Mightly Fortress Is Our God.
Performances are February 16, 8 pm at 
Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland, and 
February 17, 7:30 pm at South Hills Theater 
in Dormont. Information on ticket reserva 
tions and winter series subscription discounts 
is available by phoning 322-RCBB, Monday 
through Friday, 9:30 am to 5:00 pm (VISA 
and Master Card accepted). Tickets are also 
available at TIX, Oliver Plaza.
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
Completing Second Year Undergraduate Studies
SCHOLARSHIP & SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Cleveland Pneumatic Company is seeking two persons for its newly established 
Manufacturing Engineering Technology Scholarship Program.
To qualify, you must:
 be completing second year studies;
 be an Engineering (Mechanical or Industrial) major;
 have top academic credentials including strong mathematics studies;
 be a permanent resident of the Greater Cleveland area (family residence within 30 
miles of Cleveland);
 have an interest in the Manufacturing Engineering field.
Additional desirable credentials include:
 demonstrated skills or experience in Manufacturing Engineering;
 manufacturing work experience;
 knowledge of the aerospace industry.
We are offering a scholarship for up to $6000 plus summer employment for students 
who. qualify for third and fourth year studies in the Manufacturing Engineering 
Programs at Boston University (Boston, MA) or Weber State (Ogden, UT).
To apply, send a letter of interest to:
Linda Urmetz, Cleveland Pneumatic Company, 3781 East 77th Street, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44105. An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/H.
Pneumo
ClevelandPneumatic
Landing Gear
On this day in 
Rock and Roll.
In 1967, 15 policemen raid the 
Sussex home of Rolling Stone guitarist, 
Keith Richards. They find various 
substances of a suspicious nature, but 
no arrests are made.
This week in Rock and Roll also 
marks the deaths of Nat King Cole, 
February 15, 1966, Mike Bloomfield of 
the Paul Butterfield Blues Band on 
February 15, 1981, and Thelonius 
Sphere Monk on February 17, 1982.
Compiled by Adam Hanin from the 
Rolling Stone Rock Almanac, Collief 
Books.
RESEARCH
Send $2 for catalog 
of over 16,000 topics to 
assist vour research  ' 
forts. For info., call to[ 
free 1-800621-5745 On_ linois call 312-922-0300)
Author rch, Rm 
407 S Owtoofn. CMOQQ. H-.ggSJ
MURRAY A. FELDER
ATTORNEY AT LAW
Civil and Criminal
3447 Forbes Ave.
Oakland 683^^
v;1 .".'v.1-;1;1.-.-v'.

---------------------------------------------------

February 12, 1985The TartanPage 11
Scotch'rTSoda's new musical Zelda begins production
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
ScotchnSoda, CMUs Drama club, is cur
rently preparing for the April production of 
Collette Silvestris original musical Zelda, 
which depicts the life of Zelda Sayre Fit
zgerald, the wife of novelist F. Scott Fit
zgerald. The cast includes Susan Ingerman 
in the title role, Mark Simmons as Fit
zgerald, Chris Quigley as Cole Porter, and 
Bruce Moore as Ernest Hemingway. Zelda
Isko reviews
By MARK ISKOWITZ
Special to The Tartan
1. Chris IsaakSilvertone (Warner
Brothers)
Powerful, heartfelt American music is em
bodied in this tuneful debut by an intrigu
ing San Francisco player. As much as he 
resembles Elvis Presley on the album cover, 
Isaak sounds like him (with a bit of Buddy 
Holly) on the records 12 originals. 
Psychedelic and country-ish guitar textures 
nix with Isaaks passionate vocals, creating 
high points of musical drama. Such a gen
tle pairing of vocals and sparse guitar is rare 
today. I suspect Warner Bros, has signed an 
unknown musical genius whose simplistic 
songs will appeal to lovers of emotional roots 
rrock .
2. Van MorrisonA Sense of Wonder
(Mercury)
The great Irish bard returns triumphantly 
with a bunch of bright, new compositions 
and a pair of magnificent covers of songs by 
Ray Charles and Mose Allison. Vans sparkl
ing production and amazing session musi
cians generate uplifting spiritual music and 
cool jazz. Always an honorary soul man to 
many, Vans expressive voice is in vintage 
j form, soaring to new emotion-filled heights.
- If Tore Down A La Rimbaud were any 
more charged-up, it would fling the stylus 
off the turntable. The album does shift 
r gears, with Vans celtic roots showing up on 
. a couple of instrumentals. One of contem| porary musics true pioneers seems 
revitalized.
3. Husker DuNew Day Rising (SST) 
This fifth album from Minnesotas already
legendary Huskers assaults you with a 
relentless fuzz guitar attack. Bob Mould & 
Cos material has matured, becoming more 
melodic and song-oriented than ever before. 
However, most of the vocals are mixed too 
low, deliberately of course. I Apologize 
deviates most radically from the groups 
furious thrash-and-mumble delivery in its 
vocal clarity, Stiff Little Fingers-like chorus, 
and length (3:40). On this LP, their second 
ln six months, the Huskers have created 
a new wall of sound which packs a tremen
dous punch.
is being directed by James Berry.
The life of Zelda Fitzgerald has been 
dramatized before in such works as Ten
nessee Williams play Closed For a Summer 
Hotel, a 1930s film called Beloved Infidel, 
and a recently-closed off-Broadway play also 
called Zelda. But according to Miss Silvestri, 
no one ever looked at her as a woman  
just as the crazy wife of F. Scott Fitzgerald. 
Previous portrayals of Zeldas life have con
centrated on the sordid story of her
new music
4. The Velvet UndergroundVU. (Verve)
Just as Lou Reed now begins to transcend
his underground status, Polygram has dusted 
off and remastered ten historic songs intend
ed for a never-released fourth Velvets LP on 
MGM. Reeds lyrical adventures, some of 
which later appeared on his solo albums, 
scream with intensity and biting guitar licks. 
Aside from the two tracks with John C^le, 
this record depicts an important, innovative 
period (mid-to-late 1969) in Lou Reeds long 
career. Foggy Notion justifiably joins Im 
Waiting For The Man and Sister Ray as 
all-time rock and Velvets classics.
5. Grandmaster FlashThey Said It 
Couldnt Be Done (Elektra)
Is this much fun okay for ones health? 
Since leaving Sugarhill, Grandmaster 
Flash has become the moniker for a full 
group effort. While Mr. Flash still spins and 
scratches, collaborators Kidd Creole, 
Rahiem, Levon, Mr. Broadway, and Larry 
Lowe do the rappin and singin. Catchy rock 
n soul music written by the team receives 
elaborate electronic treatment by a host of 
masterful musicians. Rock the House and 
Sign of the Times exemplify the exciting, 
novel way Flash bridges the gap between 
street rap and structured music. Listen close
ly to catch Eddie Murphy being cut up in 
the process.
breakdown, giving an unfair and inaccurate 
picture of a gifted, dynamic woman who was 
a creative artist in her own right, as a 
painter, dancer, and writer.
Zelda, says Silvestri, was the original flap
perthe archetype of Prohibition era 
female flamboyance. She was a pervasive in
fluence on all who surrounded her. Her uni
que and uninhibited personality was source 
of inspiration to Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemmingway. Zeldas spirit can be sensed in the 
female characters in their novels, and in the 
music of her friend Cole Porter.
But in the male-dominated world of the 
1920s, Zelda was prevented from reaching 
her potential as a creative artist and getting 
the recognition she deserved. In the late 20s 
Zelda and her husband collaborated on a 
series of short stories. Eventually Zelda began 
to write stories on her own, but they still car
ried the husband-and-wife by-line. When 
one of her stories was accepted by the Satur
day Evening Post, the publishers exerted 
pressure to drop her name from the by-line, 
and in the end the story appeared under the 
name F. Scott Fitzgerald, even though he 
had had no hand in writing it. Fitzgeralds 
own writing, in fact, revolved around Zelda 
so much that he was incapable of finishing 
his novel The Last Tycoon after she was 
institutionalized.
It is appropriate that the story of the ar
chetypical 1920s woman is being presented 
as a musical. When I read about Zelda,
says Silvestri, I heard music. Music was an 
integral part of the unique culture of 
America in the 1920 s; it was the age of jazz, 
as reflected in such Fitzgerald novels as The 
Great Gatsby.
Zelda will be performed April 11-13 and 
17-20 in the Skibo Ballroom. The musical 
director for Zelda is Robin Fountain; the ar
ranger and assistant musical director is Ar
thur Turner.
WRCT Top 10 Albums
1. Laurie Anderson
United States Live
2. The Milkshakes 
They Came They Saw
3. Husker Du 
New Day Rising
4 . Shockabilly 
Vietnam.
5. Bill Nelson
The Two-fold aspect of Everything
6. The Droogs 
Stone Cold World
7. Jean-Michel Jarre 
Zoolook
8. The Smiths 
Hatful of Hollow
9. Nash the Slash 
American Bandages
10. Bunnydrums 
Holy Moly
For a tee brochure call Toll Free:
or write:  800-222-TEST
34iiftion.LPenter Educational Tastino
HLtake the next course FREE.
Philip Pelusi Haircutting Workshops!
Register for a Philip Pelusi haircutting workshop and 
get a great-looking cut for just $8.00!
Call Salon nearest you  ask for workshop 
coordinator.
Bank Center 261-6550 Century III Mall 655-1940
Squirrel Hill 521-12C0 Village Square Mall 833-6770
,tac< .'unW^Ol'1'2'2-
too'w neviceS ^rp.0-
3fp*et,0)
mal0' nCv'ce
todaV
trie in one
u.sJLV'd!tue
feg?#V*50eiflP1iloVer
A"eQ
.t*,cXU.
I*'"1

---------------------------------------------------

We will be interviewing on campus 
Thursday, February 14th
A rich career, extending the limits of the mind, awaits you. To explore the possibilities, visit with our representatives during our campus visit, or send your resume and letter of introduc tion to: Manager. College Relations Gotild Defense Electronics Division ^ 6?1 1 f^yrneadow Drive Glen Barate, Maryland 21061
% #An Equal Opportunity Employerllp
Electronics Division, where the challenge is to keep our country superior in defense-related sound detection systems and associated commercial technologies.To maintain the advantage over anddetermined adversary, we must constantly re-energize our thinking with fresh ideas. We are always listening for professionals witb Keen minds, and expertise in electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, quality assurance, manufacturing, integrated logistics support, software systems and systems engineering.To broaden your career horizons, we conduct ongoing internal training in all needed specialities.
OULD
Electronics
Sidewalks were not 
shoveled on weekends, 
creating a safety 
hazard for students.
Physical Plant was 
contacted and
promptly agreed to 
shovel the sidewalks 
whenever necessary, 
including weekends.^
Problem:
Come to us with your problems 
Wherrett Room, 7:00 p.m. Tuesday
Funded by Activities Fee
%
Student Senate:

---------------------------------------------------

Valentines
To #30 Your stats are #1 in my book.
Michael  Happy Anniversary, you lucky guy!I love you.  Susan
Little Boy: Happy Valentines Day and 1V4 anniversary. S, B, & F love you a lot and so do I. Love, Your Toy and the Guys.
To my dearest A.M.: My love for you is only limited by your acceptance of it. Be mine! Love, C.F.
Elyse, I love you forever.  Michael
Dear K, you are the perfect one for me. I love you.  CD
To the Welch Wenches: Jackie  Will you be my. . .um. . .Jennifer  will you be my Val-- .. .oh, gee, I, uh. . .will ONE of you be my. . .will SOMEONE be. . .1 need a drink.Love, Stevie
To J*C*: Thanks for being such a soft, warm, wonderful lady (with gorgeous legs!) Please be my Valentine.  David.
To all of the truly amazing Tri-Delts, Happy Valentines day. The past three years have been the best three of my life. Thank you for being so special . . . Ill never let you go.For all the good times . . . Love, Love, Love, Daina
L.G.
AMOEBALOVE
NUCKY  Thanks for a wonderful 8 months! I love you more than ever!  Your throbbing python of love.
CHI OMEGA: The spirit of love and sisterhood is alive every day. Play that funky music.
MariYou call ME strange?.. .You witch. PriscillaBehind that sweet face lies...a psycho killer!KarenRemember the pizza-CS connection when you pass the carrot/mayonnaise/raisin thing. STOP SMOKING! ! !TeresaI shall remember thy burets forever. Dost thou yet desire the Beak album?DaveI want your body, you cretin.Daniel Dee Bear and Cthulhu lieben sie immer!
Christine, Life has not been easy these past two years, but you have made them enjoyable. It is comforting to know you are always there. Love, Matthew
To the big bad 2nd floor, I think youre all great. HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! Love, a 3rd floor reject.
Dear Lisa-seeker, That note was so . . . touching. Its a shame you sent it to the wrong address. Love, Not-Lisa.
A Happy Valentine's Day wish to my family: Mom, Marlene, and Sue.AI ASS W, HHH Michael
M  you make every love song a reality, bring my dreams to life, and take me beyond fantasy.Love, B.
Happy Valentines Day Zeus. Love, MB.
Cards, Bears and Flowers dont begin to show how much I care for you. Wishing you much happiness.G.M.
Michael  All my love on our first Valentines Day together.  Elyse
^ Don, meep! Love, Katrin. P.S. SMILE!
BW2C-Just a Valentine reminder to tell you how much you are still loved & a wish to turn the calendar back. Hope all works out for the better. Love, WHN
Hilary  you are so hot  I touch I bum. Happy Valentines Day. Love, David
Happy Valentine's Day to the best little sisters from the Brothers and Pledges of Sigma Nu.
To Lucy (beep, beep!)Linus
Sweetness, you sure know how to end a vacation! Love, Your Obesity
Lovey: Youre in my heart, youre in my soul, . . . you are my lover, youre my best friend." I love you.  Lovey
Kitten, A Valentine of loving thoughts for you.I want to tell you, Sweetheart, how much I love you, but loving thoughts and words can only show a part of all the love for you that glows in my heart. Happy Valentines Day!  With all my love, Les
To my python: I love you so much! Grrrrr! Happy Valentines day! Love, your duck.
Peggy, Peggy, Peggy How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. 1, 2, 3, at least 15 ways.
Dear Henlopen,Lets have a marvy first V-day weekend together.I love you very much!PTVQ.
MA:Love Ya, lets wandle off together.-T.
To: Heather From: AndyHappy Valentines Day to a fellow punctual perfectionist. Dont do it if you cant get it right the first time!
Happy Valentines Day to Batboy, Im hip Imhip. Youre my calendar guy.P.S. EAT YOUR FOOD !!
Joe Cf
To my YUM-YUM;
Happy V.D.
JG
To XXLB@TB,KI love to be with you. XXOT@TD
To the rest of the male gender: Karen Nicole is^ taken! Hopefully, soon by me. CFA 416
to my sweet Clown: jOur love has always been a three-ring circus-^- wil1 you join me in the center ring? Lovey
CJ (the next Richard Stoltrman):Keep your hopes, dreams, and ambitions shin- 'ng in front of you; for my love will always follow you wherever you go. Your future and my love is 'n your hands. Keep on hookin 
love,Carm Bud
Venus, If old St. Valentine knew you, you would be the goddess of his worship. ais^you are mine. May this holiest of days keep us warm until St. Patrick can again renew our faith.  Lovey.
Happy Valentines Day 306 South Aiken! Love, 618 Clyde Street (Apt. 13)
DOMOL/FB  That was a D-fiat minor diminished ninth, she noted chordially (as she wondered if her p: ?no lessons were paid up yet.) Oh, boy our FIRSi' Valentines Day! Happy one month. Love, Eurydice (?)
PETE,THANKS TO A MEXICAN DINNER, WILL YOU BE MY VALENTINE?ROBINP.S. GET READY FOR SATURDAY

---------------------------------------------------

12 am 
1 
2
SUNMONTUE
Cosmic Flap Jacks
Big Floppy Pancakes 
space, electronic, 
ambient
The Rhythm of the Beat 
Les
jazz, R&B, funk
Corwin of Amber
early rock, jazz
Illicit Affairs 
Rick
new wave, dance, blues, 
jazz
The Cat's Meow 
The Cat
rock, psych, jazz, space
Random Truck w/ Tony 
early rock, jazz, blues
Radio Classics 
classical, experimental
The Social Register 
Taylor Travers 
rock, oldies, jazz, 
funk
Sunday Quarter to Nine
Dynamic Vegetation 
Norman
hardcore, psych, 
experimental
Music for Gurus 
and Spies 
Mr. Nobody 
new age music, 
rock 'n roll
Caviar and Meths 
Maxine
heavy metal, hard rock
Sunrise
in the Rearview Mirror 
Dan
new music, ska, funk
Chatting Over Coffee
Mort and Jane
rock, oldies, comedy,
reggae
Electronic Mysteries 
Rick Brandt
rock, electronic, oldies, 
jazz
A Cool Dry Place 
Rob
modern, dance, reggae
Room with a View
Mark Jason 
eclectic modern music
Occasional Death 
Red Hot Rosa Cheese
drone, psych
Madame Pompadour's...
Morphic Resonance
Chris Koenigsburg 
avant garde, jazz, 
electronic
Things that Go Bump 
in the Morning 
Icabod
experimental, jazz, 
new music, vocal
Sanitized for Your
Protection
Mr. Clean
jazz, instrumentals
Mad Mixin'
The Inspector 
funk, dance, jazz
Arbitrary Choices w/ Don 
rock, space, jazz, oldies
Skolem Functions 
just about anything...
Modern Angst w/ Norbert 
hardcore, reggae, funk,
Radio Pepe 
hardcore, punk, funk
Green Eggs and Ham
Sam I Am
dance, electronic, jazz, 
rock
Unsightly and Serene
Clare
new wave, 
experimental, industria*

---------------------------------------------------

I Spring 1985program
188.3 FM STEREO
j Phone 578-2883 or 621-WRCT (9728)
WRCT is a Public Service stahnnstation of Carneg,e-Mellon University, Pittsburgh
[ WEDTHUFRISAT
Best Thing Since 
Whipped Cream 
Don Giovanni 
garage, jazz, rockabilly, 
big band
June
June
reggae
Dead Set 
Jim
Dead, jazz, Motown, 
blues
Guts and Passion 
Bambi
psych, punk
Malicious
Mr. Glitch, Daysleeper, 
Garrett
rock, classical
Romantic Pagans for 
Matriarchy
Ovid
reggae, folk, blues, punk
iThe Wake 
Bpectre
Kisych, blues, jazz, 
Husion
The Talk Normal Show
Anji and Marni 
new wave
Second City Alternative 
Jazz
Lisa Smith
jazz, classical, fusion
Plate of Shrimp 
Otto
hardcore, punk, reggae
Carnal Whimsy 
The Queen
I of Radio Pornography 
1 rock, new wave, psych
Real Time
Sean Brady
old rock, country,.
classical
Spaced Out Sarah 
psych, oldies, rock
Music Incognito 
Rich
funk, jazz, reggae, rap, 
R&B
passionate Cabaret w/Z.J.Neurotica
Jeff Stafford
new wave, rock, R&B,
jazz, fusion
Through the Looking
Glass
Joelle
jazz, rock, folk, 
classical
The Act of Being Polite 
Ray
anything
f Is There Anybody Out 
I There? w/ Phil 
i^Pace, comedy, folk.
 Baby Snakes 
RNck Farley 
Zappa...
Orgando i Ta,k Show
Beer in Your Ear 
Bill
rock, blues, jazz, ethnic
Music for Heathens
Sodom and Gomorah 
industrial, ska, psych, 
punk
Asexually Speaking
Mike Usually
modern, new wave, 
dance
Bj'niiich Manuever
Cheesethrust 
|nardcore, punk, doom.
Industrial
Penguin Dust 
HAL
industrial, space, 
hardcore, psych
SPORTSLINE
Sex Without Touching 
Wayne
punk, comedy, space
Nuclear Winter 
Fetko
silly sounds, strange 
noises, world music
PPustrial Park 
1' Entropy 
Rd The Supervisor 
retrial, drone,
J^rimental
Hell Hath No Mercy 
heavy metal, hard rock
Bop n' Blues w/ Willy V. 
blues
It's Time to Make 
the Do-Nuts 
Col. Gum
neopsych, European rock
The Party Never Stops 
at the Cold Front 
Russell Post 
hardcore, experimental, 
jazz, painful
PunM by AcHvtU Wm

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Classifieds
FURNISHED 1 BR SUMMER SUBLET! 5th
Ave. security building 12 min. walk to CMU, kit
chen, bath, living room, dining room, 3 large 
closets + additional storage, laundry facilities, 
no roaches!
Rent : $359/month + electric
Available : May 15, 1985 - August 31, 1985
Call 681-2519 after 9 p.m.
APARTMENT FOR RENT : 1/2 block from 
CMU, lower Beeler St. Huge, 2500 sq. ft. 10 
rooms, 2 story apartment. 5 bedrooms, 2 living 
rooms 22 X 17; 31 X 14. Two bathrooms, kit
chen, dining room, small office, sunporch, 
garage, storm windows, 1 floor air conditioned. 
Washer & dryer. Comfortably suitable for 7. 
$1300/month + utilities. Available beginning of 
May. Call 521-9441 after 7:30 pm.
USED COMPUTER WANTED Call 261 3933
Events
Movies1 of Backstage at the Kirbv A look 
JL mb at the backstage preparations of 
the famous Kirov Ballet, the Leningrad company 
that was responsible for Nijinsky, Balanchine, 
and Baryshnikov. Ip Russian with English sub
titles. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
Admission $2.95.
Plays
Of Mice and Men performed af the Famdus 
Rider CulturalCenter. Performances through 
March 3: Friday and Saturday at 8*pm; Sunday 
at 2 pm Tickets available at f amous rider box 
office and TIX. Call 681-i476 for details.
Sports
Fencing away meet against Indiana University 
of Pennsylvannia at 1:30 p.m.
Recreation
Stuffed Sweethearts orders being taken. Delivery 
of February 14. Baker Hall, 10 am to 4 pm; Skibo 
Grey Matter 11 am to 2 pm; Morewood Gardens 
4:30 pm to 7:30 pm Another A Phi O service.
Clubs
Student Senate Meeting open to the campus 
community. Skibo Wherrett Room, 7 pm.
Presidential Awards for Design Excellence,
presented by Malcolm Quantrill, RIBA, Visiting 
Professor of Architecture at Texas A&M. Part 
of the Department of Architecture Spring Lec
tures Series. Wean Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Families in Transition, presented by the 
Counseling Center. An ongoing support group 
for students whose parents are separated or 
divorced. E-Tower Morewood, 3:30 pm to 5:30 
pm.
Art
Works by Kimberly Burleigh, Steve Hankin, 
Lillian Pierce, Mary Weidner in display at Pitt
sburgh Plan for Art until March 10. Gallery 
hours Tuesday through Saturday: 10 am to 5 pm; 
Sunday 1 pm to 5 pm.
Selected Drawings of Georg Baselitz shown until 
February 28 at the Hewlett Gallery. Gallery 
hours: Tuesday through Friday: 11 am to 4 pm; 
Saturday: 12 noon to 4 pm; Sunday: 1 pm to 4 
nm- .........................
symbolics
Symbolics, Inc. is the established leader in the development of symbolic com
puting systems for advanced applications in Artificial Intelligence, KnowledgeBased Systems, CAD, and Software Development. Our 3670 computer system, 
currently the most powerful LISP-based system commercially available, pro
vides an unmatched software development environment for complex applica
tions. We currently seek a Field Software Support Engineer for our Pittsburgh 
office.
TheNw spTarofe sCnnpfa 
egihgeef
The qualified candidate will provide technical advice and instruction on all 
Symbolic's software features, specializing in distribution and installation pro
cedures for software products built in the Symbolics software system.
We require advanced programming skills in at least one programming pro
cedural language, LISP, or equivalent. Significant software experience, par
ticularly in system and networking software. Possession of good interpersonal 
skills is essential, along with excellent reporting and problem-solving ability. 
A B.S. in Applied Math/Computer Science, or equivalent, is required with 
0-4 years' experience.
We offer an excellent salary and compensation package. Please send resume 
to Donna Weinberg, Symbolics, Inc., 11 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, 
MA 02142. An equal opportunity employer.
APARTMENT FOR RENT : Large 1 
bedroom, dining room, living room, equipped 
kitchen, laundry, balcony. Clean, bright, good 
location. $425 +elee. 921-7023. Evenings.
RESUME/TYPING SERVICE Special stu
dents rates. Call EXECUTIVE RESUME, 
261-7117.
OAKLAND-SUBLEASE Available March 1. 1 
bedroom apartment with wall to wall carpet, airconditioning, security building $260 + electric.
621-2552.
COUNSELORS, OVER 19 who like to havef 
and make fun at unique overnight boys sunu^ 
camp in Penna. Able to instruct one of 
following: Water Safety, Waterskiing, Boat 
Soccer, Basketball, Arts and Crafts, Rockcliu 
bing, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry, Science 
Archery, Track, Tennis, Golf, Photograph 
Pioneering, or General Athletics, write CA\|p 
DIRECTOR, 138 Red Rambler Drive, LaF, 
Hill, PA 19444.
Movies1 Q% Badlands, starring Martin Sheen,
JL Sissy Spacek, Warren Oates. Fine
actting highlights this moody film about two 
young lovers who go on a killing spree in the 
1950s. Based on a true story. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm Admission $2.95.
Music
Graduate Recital, with John Olsson, trombone. 
Alumni Concert Hall, 5 pm.
Sports
Mens Varsity Basketball home game against 
John Caroll University. Skibo Gym, 8 pm.
Womens Basketball home game against Butler 
Community College. Skibo Gym, 6 pm.
Recreation
Stuffed Sweethearts orders being taken. See 
February 12.
Clubs
AIESEC meets in Skibo 11 at 4:30 pm.
Astronomy Club meets in Doherty 2304 at 8:30 
pm.
Movies
1 / 1 A Man and a Woman. BeautiJL JL fully simple winner of academy 
award and the Cannes Film Festival. Doherty 
2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm Admission $1. Spon
sored by Activities Board.
Get out your Handkerchiefs, starring Gerard 
Depardieu, Patrick Dewaere, Carol Laure. A 
clever amusing comedy romp about two friends 
who cannot understand women. Oscar for Best 
Foreign Film. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm Admission $2.95.
Music
The Chamber Orchestra of Europe First U.S. 
Tour 1985, sponsored by the BOC Group 
features Alexander Schneider, guest conductor, 
and Cecile Licad, pianist. Carnegie Music Hall 
(Oakland), 8 pm Student tickets $7.50, $6.00 at 
the Student Union and Heinz Halil Box Office 
or call Ticket Charge 392-4900.
Valentines Day A11 Ages Show, featuring The 
Shunts, The Urge, M.R.N. Tickets $3 advance, 
available at Think Pink 261 Atwood (in 
Oakland), or. $4 at door. The New Group 
Theater (5188 Penn Ave., 681-1635), 9 pm.
Clubs
Explorers Club plans rock climbing and kayak
ing trips. All welcome. Skibo 12, 6:30 pm.
Lectures
Is It Real or Is It Digital Effects? Warren 
Waken and Alan Green of CMU Electronic Im
aging Laboratory will show and discuss their work 
in computer graphic animation. Pittsburgh Film 
Makers, The Media Arts Center, at 205 Oakland 
Ave., 8:45 pm Admission $3.
Managing Stress, presented by the Counsel 
Center. Leam how to cope with academic a* 
personal pressures. First of seven lectures giVc 
on Thursdays. E-Tower Morewood, 4:30 pmt 
5:30 pm.
Movies1 tI Bachelor Party. DohertyJL xj 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 pm. Ad 
mission $1. Sponsored by Activities Board
The Bostonians, starring Vanessa Redg 
Christopher Reeve, Madeline Potter. Awealti 
feminist battes it out with a romantic redned 
from the South in this film version of Hei 
James novel. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30: 
9:40 pm, 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
The Birthday Party, by Harold Pinter; din 
by Gillette Elvgren. A comedy of terror abouil 
bizarre party featuring treacherous guests; 
harrowing birthday games. Opens at 8 
Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre (Forbes Art 
in Oakland). Admission $4.50 to $6.50 
range for run of shows). Ticket information] 
624-4101. Runs until March 2; show perfor 
hours: Thursday through Saturday: 8 pm; I 
day 2 pm.
Music
Harpsichordist Geoffrey Thomas performs s
recital to celebrate tricentennial birthdays] 
Bach, Handel, and Scarlatti. Pieces played a 
elude Bachs Partita IV in D major, sonataslj 
Scarlatti, and Handels Suite in E majorwki 
includes the Harmonious Blacksmith vat 
tions. Synod Hall (Fifth Ave. and Craigj 
behind St. Pauls Cathedral in Oakland),! 
pm. Tickets $6 ($3 for students) purchasedaiij 
door. ^
Sports
Womens Basketball away game agaij 
Washington and Jefferson College at 7 j
Recreation
Campus Pub pre-grand opening in the> 
Highlander Room at 4 pm. Free food andd
Craig Karges performs in AB Coffeehouse.. 
Wherrett Room, 8 pm.
Movies
| j \ Raiders of the Lost Ark. 1 JL 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm.A(
sion $1. Sponsored by Student D 
Council.
Harold and Maude, starring Ruth Gordon 
Cort, Vivian Pickles. A comedy cult 
a young man and his 79-year-old g11" 
Bizarre and hilarious.Soundtrack by Cat SJ
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30. 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Swimming home meet against Hiram 
and Gannon College. Gymnasium p00'1
t
Clubs
Game Club meets in Skibo H at 1 P1"
continued o'11
Olt >75-2021CMU Travel Office
Campus Consentanee
s-MlU vto

---------------------------------------------------

February 12, 1985The TartanPage 17
me
nUed from page 16
Movies
7
 Foul Play. Chevy Chase joins
Goldie Hawn in stopping an evil 
against the Pope. Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 
10 pm. Admission $1. Sponsored by Ac
es Board.
t Me in St. Louis, starring Judy Garland, 
aret OBrien, Mary Astor, Leon Ames.
' musical about a family at the turn of the 
ry. Score includes Garlands, Trolley 
 Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. 
ission $2.95.
Music
Presents: Carsickness and the Bats, pering a free concert in Skibo Wherrett Room
pm. -
Movies
8
 The Godfather, starring Robert 
Duval, Diane Keaton, A1 Pacino, 
Caan, Marlon Brando. Oscars for Brancreenplay, and Best Picture. Pittsburgh 
ouse, 7:30 pm only. Admission $2.95.
Clubs
i 0 meeting in Doherty 2210 at 7 pm.
one welcome.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com
puter mail to MEOPat CMCCTC. Only classified 
ads will be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi
tion, include the namejand phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The T artan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next weeks issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.
Unfortunately, TOPSC was down this week 
and events mailed to the listed account were not 
published in this issue. The Tartan regrets any 
inconvenience caused by this.
-BOOK CORRECTION
eH Terminal Room
X3168
you want
ree Tickets
en heres a way to get some. The 
rtan has two tickets to Rodney 
ngerfields February 16th show at 
Syria Mosque, and YOU can win 
m. All you have to do is write 
n, in 25 words or less, why you 
nk you get no respect. Then drop 
ff at the Skibo Information Desk 
|)The Tartan. Deadline is 7:00 pm 
Wednesday, February 13th. Please 
lude your name, address, and 
ne number. The winner will be 
ified on Thursday, February 14th.
mets courtesy of DiCesare-Engler.
on
Carsickness and the Bats
unrig the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
ou maY experience some of the following:
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANGER  CAREER DOUBTS 
P FAMILY TROUBLES  DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS  
pXUAL QUESTIONS  MARITAL OR PARENTING PROBLEMS 
f LACK OF MOTIVATION  SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
P to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
n the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
13 f of our patients are students.
^ you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi
dential psychotherapy on a sliding fee scale, call 661-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
pown. Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
| les ^rorn Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
%
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center
211 N. Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
By BILL WRBICAN
Special to The Tartan
This Sunday marks the return of local 
favorites Carsickness and The Bats to CMU.
The members of Carsickness, one of Pitt
sburghs most popular local bands, are 
celebrating their fifth aniversary together, as 
they formed in 1980. The band has receiv
ed favorable reviews in music magazines and 
has played to enthusiastic crowds in New 
York and Toronto.
Carsickness draws from jazz and folk in
fluences as well as from rock and roll to form 
a sound uniquely its own. Carsickness has 
recorded two albums and three singles, and
Contest
National College Poetry Contest
International Publications is sponsor
ing a national college poetry contest 
open to all college and university 
students wishing to have their poetry 
anthologized. Cash prizes will go to the 
top five poems. All accepted 
manuscripts will be printed free of 
charge in a bound and copyrighted 
anthology. Deadline for submission is 
March 31.
CONTEST RULES AND 
RESTRICTIONS:
1. Any student is eligible to submit his 
or
her verse.
2. All entries must be original and 
unpublished.
3. All entries must be typed, doublespaced, on one side of the page only. 
Each poem must be on a separate 
sheet and must bear, in the upper lefthand corner, the NAME and AD
DRESS of the student as well as the 
COLLEGE attended. Put name and 
address on envelope also!
has prepared a five song EP for release in 
the near future.
The Bats are a newer band which form
ed in the Spring of 1984. They play excellent 
straightforward rock and roll with garage 
and punk influences.
Both Carsickness and The Bats draw 
many requests on WRCT. If you have never 
been able to see these bands, now is your 
chance .
Carsickness and The Bats appear this Sun
day in the Skibo Wherrett room at 1:00 p. m. 
as a service to the campus community. The 
concert is sponsored by WRCT with the 
assistance of the Activities Board Technical 
staff
4. There are no restrictions on form 
or theme. Length of poems up to four
teen lines. Each poem must have a 
separate title. (Avoid Untitled!) 
Small black and white illustrations 
welcome.
5. The judges decision will be final. 
No info by phone!
6. Entrants should keep a copy of all 
entries as they cannot be returned. 
Prize winners and all authors award
ed free publication will be notified im
mediately after deadline. I.P. will re
tain first publication rights for ac
cepted poems. Foreign language 
poems welcome.
7. There is an initial one dollar 
registration fee for the first entry and 
a fee of fifty cents for each addtitional 
poem. It is requested to submit no 
more than ten poems per entrant.
8. All entries must be postmarked not 
later than the above deadline and fees 
be paid cash, check or money order, 
to:
INTERNATIONAL 
PUBLICATIONS 
P.O. Box 44044-L 
Los Angeles, CA 90044
Win Someones Hearton February 14.
Give Flowers on Valentines Day
Its a wonderful way to show your love...and win some in return
TRUE LOVE floss'A loveable
plush Lovey Bear Only
holding a magnificent $129 
rose in a hand blown 
glass bud vase
Get Double the Love...
Two roses in a double stem hand-blown 
glass bud vase mg. - -
Only I "OVtCft
$1799 I B*SKtT Brti* 
V r^\ roj^QLl
reS
Y_0FT
tin''*LOCAL 'DELIVERY AVALIABLE
.Fr m(99ALL MAJOR CREDIT CARDS ACCEPTED
WE MAKE FLOWERS AFFORDABLE'SHACKELFORDS & MAXWELLS
Quality Florists Since 1901 FLOWERS
WUkHMburg. ; PttquM Im
7314)457 Monn* Ptaza. 373-IMO *fann Hte Shopping Cantor. 241-3775-----------  ------ * Mr. 2712500. 323-0392rtquM litr Shopping Cantor. 327-5099 Braddocfc HM* Shopping dve pt Franc HoapMai. 601-1110 -Oakland. 601 7962 Magh.ny Cantar MonrooviNo MaN. 856-6170 *Graangata Mai. 036-0325 lIbee Squara. 054-4200 KAUFMANNS  Downtown Mtatourgh. 232 41
Happy Valentine's Day!

---------------------------------------------------

Whn You r* Onto 
A Good Thing, 
Stick With HMCAPRI PIZZA
Where Today... 
Tcmcrrov...
AND EVERY DAY. .
yU, iPbabMP uPVb nMmmF hR pF-dFR. ob aEP uPVb nIMDPk
oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooocxxDOOOO
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
?A/so For Your Night Life Pleasure*
FORCES STUDIOSo Jhwep whsLpS
Open Tuesday - Sunday 9 p.m. to 2 a.m.
ooooooooooooooootro^
Hv$1 TpfLes oJe7 ni97 no7 $1$H n9pge *Z$5t
LARGE 
'0 CUT PIZZA including=^*2 LITERS OF PEPSI,$2.99+EAT-IN or DELIVERED!!*
No one ever starts without us.Materials Scient
CIT Freshman Open Houseorientation, lab tours, and 
demonstrations
Refreshments will be served
Thursday, February 14, 1985 
Wean Hall 4327 
4:30-6:30 pm

---------------------------------------------------

MJ^Jg^s^Jutuf^as season's end is nar
f~ e* TartanS OUtof coherence championship picturevmphasumNp C- YNMha
, sports Editor
lother winter sports season is coming toI
 id, and another Tartan mens basket- team is going to finish with a losing
1.
U dropped two games this week, to 
? leaders W&J and Hiram. After star
ve PAC season with a 4-2 record, the 
ins have now lost three straight and are 
rail with three games to play.
ch has not had a winning season since 
978-79 campaign, finishing 11-9. CMU 
|ed at 11-11 in both 1979-80 and SO^l. 
: 28 years of the PAC, the Tartans have 
|he conference just once, in 1977 when 
Dave Maloney led the Tartans to a 
lecord.
I there hope for CMU basketball? 
[ps. A young team will improve, and 
a young team. Head Coach Larry 
has been a head coach for just two 
| and will no doubt improve as a gamethis season was to be expected, 
from last years team were leading 
Greg Gabriel, starting guard Ray 
ian, starting forward Rob Kukowski, 
;serves Herb Sendek and Tom Sucklthe season, Scott Saxton, Jay 
and Dave Gestrich left. With that
_______J *
Anderson had a very good recruiting year, 
getting freshmen Hart Coleman, Michael 
Stewart, and Tom Franklin, and unknown 
commodity David Smith. More years like 
this, and this will be a championship team. 
Anderson works hard at recruitment, recent
ly travelling to a local high school to court 
a prospect.
This year had hope and disappointment, 
but does not yet have an end. CMU needs 
to win at least two of three to finish strong. 
A record of 9-13 and 7-5 in conference 
be a solid season after the loss of players and 
the inexperience of the team. Even the 
seniors John Taormina and Dwayne Waite 
have played two full varsity seasons.
It was a tough week on the road for CMU. 
At W&J (15-4, 8-1) Wednesday night, the 
Tech five took on the team that is clearly the 
class of the conference. The Tartans trailed 
by just three points at halftime, but lost 
71-59. W&Js leading scorer Tony Torchia 
erupted for 16 second half points and finish
ed with a game high 22 points. John Achille 
hurt the Tartans with 14 points, mostly from 
the 20-25 foot range.
Michael Stewart hit for 17 points in the 
game to lead CMU
Hiram defeated the Tartans Saturday 
night, 79-66, avenging an earlier loss to 
CMU. Rod Swartz had 30 points for the Ter
riers, and brother Russ had 18. CMU was 
led by David Bart with 13 points. Hart Col
eman and Dwayne Waite had 10 apiece, and 
John Taormina scored nine points and pull
ed down six rebounds.
CMU takes on John Carroll (6-13, 5-4) at 
home tomorrow night at 8 p.m. Radio 
   -1' 88.3
John Taormina goes up and over Jay Peters (35) for a layup.
photo by Bob Fishel
PAC Standings
PACWLPCTGBOVERALLWLPCTGBW&J81.888W&J154.789
Hiram54.5553Hiram712.3688JCU54.5553Bethany612.3338Y2CMU45.4444Grove City612.3338y2Bethany35.37541/2Thiel612.333SV2Grove City35.37541/2JCU613.3159Thiel26.25051/2CMU613.3159
This Weeks Games 
Grove City 70 Bethany 66 
W&J 71 CMU 59 
John Carroll 76 Hiram 70 
Mt. Union 94 Thiel 91 (2 O.T.) 
Hiram 79 CMU 66 
John Carroll 67 Bethany 62 
W&J 81 Thiel 61
\wun toll) will surely be an integral part of the future of the Tartans.
ader emerges in IM's
RISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Editor
stands atop the intramural basketues with the only undefeated ma
le record at 6-0. The Wolfpack got 
xth win defeating Pika by seven 
^ndy James led the scoring with 22
games and keeping referee 
The only way to keep the IM 
working is to keep the games-d.
after]noon will be the intramural
ment. The finals begin at
11:15 am in Thistle Hall. The tourney is open 
to the public. There is no price for admis
sion. Defending champions should include 
heavyweight Marc Muster and 155-lb. 
champ Reid Sclafani.
FINAL ROSTER CALLS: February 12; 
Handball (commissioner E.J. Birdy, x2214), 
pinochle (Vic Boland, 682-9412), water 
basketball. February 21; Individual Chess, 
(Ed Klehr, 681-4313), Call Pool Individual, 
Co-Rec Table TennisDUE TODAY, FEBRUARY 7: Call PoolTeam (Rob Fleischman, 687-1465), table 
tennis.
Miphoto by
CMU fencers were very successful Saturday, defeating Cal St. and Allegheny before 
losing to Division I Cleveland State. Full coverage of this meet plus the Intercollegiate 
Tourney fought Sunday in next week's Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
Val Sooky throws a bounce pass .versus Bethany.
The Naval Air Development Center located in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, near Philadelphia, is the Navys principal R&D center for naval aircraft systems with emphasis on Anti- Submarine Warfare and Tactical Air Warfare.
Career opportunities featuring challenging work assignments, technical independence, and responsibility exist for entry level scientists and engineers to develop advanced products in the following areas:
 Software and Hardware Systems
 Radar, Acoustic, Magnetic and 
Optical Sensors
 Communications and Data Networks 
Systems
 Aircraft and Ship Navigation 
Systems
 Aircraft Materials and Structures 
Campus Interviews scheduled for
FEBRUARY 27th
Contact Your Career Placement Office For An Interview
For information call (collect) (215) 441-2483 or send a resume and transcript to:
NAVAL AIR DEVELOPMENT CENTER Civilian Personnel Office (Code 033) 
Warminster, PA 18974-5000
U.S. CWnnth^ Hiqiriwd  An Equal Opportunity Employer
Women get first conference win against Bethany, 66-63
photo by Edward Un
By DON EGGERT
Tartan Staffwriter
With the support of a relatively large 
crowd and a loud contingent of the Kiltie 
Pep Band, the CMU womens basketball 
team relied on some of its best play of the 
season to defeat the Bethany Lady Bisons, 
66-63.
According to Coach Gerri Seidl, the 
Tartans performance was the best, most 
consistent game the team has played this 
season. Also, the atmosphere of the large 
crowd and the band helped everyones play.
Spectators cheering for CMU finally got 
something to cheer about, as the Tartan 
women fought for an early lead and main
tained control over a struggling Bethany 
team throughout most of the game. The 
Tartans were led by senior forward Michelle 
Schlegel, who collected a game-high 23 
points while snatching 10 rebounds, and 
freshman Monica Zalevsky who contributed 
16 points, a game-high 13 rebounds, and two 
steals to the winning effort.
Seidl pointed to Schlegels key perfor
mance, stating, Michelle didnt play the in
side game last year, but she had a nice game 
inside. Shes come a long way. Looking at 
Zalevskys play, Seidl added, If she can con
tinue to do that consistently, she will be a 
big help in the (PAC) tournament.
Senior forward Laurie Arendas had the 
other hot scoring hand, with 13 points and 
12 rebounds. Teammates Nancy Dilulio, 
Cheryl Hauser, and Val Sooky added impor
tant support from the floor.
Dilulio, who averages 10 points per 
only hit two of 13 field goal attempts | 
made up for the poor shooting with< 
bounds, four assists, and two steals. In 
dition, she played the entire second half* 
four personal fouls, barely avoiding f0u 
out early. Meanwhile, sophomore Chd 
Hauser provided solid defense 
sophomore Val Sooky snared eight reborn 
with two assists. Seidl noted Sooky s play s 
ing Val has stepped in and done a nice 
starting the last four games,
In spite of the good performances 
Tartan victory came at the free throw 1 
The women shot at a .783 clip, hitting! 
of 23 from the charity stripe. Bethanyj 
up nine points at the line, hitting only i 
of 15. Going into the game the Tartans \ 
averaging a meager .527 freethrow per
tage, a mark they easily surpassed.
Although Bethany outshot the Tai 
from the field 27-24, the Tartan 
showed much improvement. Seidl ren 
ed, Defensively, the man-to-man is wh 
looked for all year,
The womens victory didnt come witl 
a scare, though. Up by a point, 64-63,i 
just over a minute left, the Tartans i 
fighting to stay ahead when Arendas fot 
out of the game. The ball changed 1 
several times, most notably on a key steal 
Tartan freshman Joy Braxton, andthej 
tans were able to pressure the victory. I 
The defeat of Bethany was the first tj 
ference victory for the Tartans, andt 
third overall. The women hope to duplJ 
their victory before a large crowd in their j 
home game, a non-conference battle: 
Butler Community College. Wednes 
night at 6:00 p.m.
Student Special
ZENITH Z-150
WITH
FREE Amber or Green Monitor
>1895
(REGULAR $2895)
te
* Fully IBM Compatable
* 320K RAM
* Two (2) 360K Disk Drives
* Parallel And Serial Ports
* High Reso lution Color And Monochrome Card
* MS-DOS J. ll.Multiplan And Word '
* Four IBM Expansion Slots
152 38691W oor.s i tPOS2THE NA**0"
Computer  Spirt a
Parkway Center Mall
Pittsburgh, PA 15220
(412) 921-3211 
Mon. - Sat 10:00 - 9 00
l6 > ecomuncu< *-7c7n-7A cBc-CcF

---------------------------------------------------

ome one! Come all! to the 
re-Grand Opening 
lie CAMPUS PUB
n theighlander 
oom
riday, February 15th at 4:00 pm ree food and drink
ont
I
SKI CLUB 
MEETING
TUESDAY, 2/12 
(TONIGHT) 
Room 39
Skibo 
8:30 
pm 
for
s0h afhn ap uNCe 0gpuW no
$16 Lift 
$9 Rental
FREE BUS*
eJefcpgehgJhaewk
Itine
Where highly 
talented grads pursue 
high tech careers
You've gotten a good education. Now begin a great career with 
Hazeltine Corporation. We are one of the foremost leaders in the 
electronics industry. Our achievements in electronic systems and 
software development, signal and information processing, 
microwave and radio communications, VLSI and microelectronic 
design and antenna research have earned us a reputation for 
innovation and excellence. For example, the FAA has awarded 
Hazeltine a contract for the design, production and installation of 
the Microwave Landing System, making us the world's leading 
supplier of MLS equipment.
Since vital new ideas are our trademark, we value vour 
knowledge. Hazeltine Research Laboratories in suburban Long 
Island, New York is seeking qualified and motivated MS and Ph.D. 
candidates in Electrical Engineering or other related disciplines 
Assignments will be in systems analysis and digital signal 
processing. Selected candidates will work closely with senior staff 
members to apply advanced adaptive antenna processing 
technology to a wide range of government applications The 
ideal candidates should possess a combination of analytical 
and hardware skills, particularly VLSI forms of digital processing 
with concurrent or systolic-like architectures
If you fit this description, you'll find challenging projects and 
outstanding career opportunities at Hazeltine
Come talk with our college recruiting representatives on campus
Wednesday, March 6
If you're unable to ge ogether with us on campus, send your 
resume to: Ms. Doreen Cassidy, College Relations Director, and 
tell her of your specific area of interest. Details on the diverse 
opportunities at Hazeltine are available in your school's 
placement office
 HazeltineCorporation
Greenlawn, L.I., NY 11740
An Equal Opportunity Employer Committed to Affirmative Action 
A Hazeltine Corporate Policy.
U.S. Citizenship Required

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
and NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Contributing Editor
As the winter gets icier, the hockey Tar
tans grow colder. The CMU skaters dropped 
two games to Western Pennsylvania Inter
collegiate Hockey Association (WPICHA) 
rivals this past weekend.
HOCKEY
The hockey club travelled to Erie Friday 
night to take on the Gannon University 
Golden Knights (13-2). Gannon got off to a 
quick 2-0 lead en route to a 5-1 victory.
The Tartans skated slowly in the first 
period after a three-hour bus ride to the 
Glenwood Ice Arena. Goaltender Bob 
Kosakowski was not in the game early, and 
three goals were past him before CMU 
warmed up.
It became a dirty, chippy game, a 
becoming traditional for the Gannon team. 
They are known to take advantage of a 
pitiful corps of referees in college clu 
hockey. CMU captain Tim Kenny re-injured 
his knee twice in the game, once on a slash 
and another on an obvious penalty that was 
not called. The latter may put Kenny, CMU s 
best defenseman, on the bench for the re
mainder of the season.
Caleb Corkery scored the only goal for the 
Tartans. Defenseman Dan Holdnack had 
two goals for Gannon. Harry West, Jack 
Schumacher and Sean Carroll also scored for 
the Golden Knights.
CMU has been hurt badly by injuries. 
Several of the skaters against Gannon were 
one-time substitutes, as John Barrett and 
Steve DesRochers were just two of the in
jured. Martin Gorman, although he played 
versus Gannon, was hobbled by an injured 
knee.
Sunday afternoon brought more hardship 
to the Tartans, as the 13-1 Duquesne Dukes, 
the leader in the Greater Pitt Conference,
photo by Dewey
There was always a lot of action in front of the net against Gannon.
scored with just over three minutes to play 
to defeat the Tartans 3-2.
Tech played one of their best games of
AM he needed was a fucky break 
Then one day she moved in.
GOBER PETERS COMPANY PRODUCTION II HAROLD BECKER FILM VISION QUEST 
MATTHEW MODI  LINDA PIORENTINO  MICHAEL SCHOEFELING 
featuring MA$)WltA performing her new bit song 'GAMBLER' 
Director of Photography OWEN ROIZMAN, A.S.C. 
Music Score Composed and Performed by TANGERINE OREAM 
Executive Prodacers STAN WESTON and ADAM FIELDS 
Based on a novel by TERRY DAVIS Screenplay by DARRYL PDNICSAN 
Produced by JON TOS and PETER GU8ER Directed by HAROLD BECKER
rjmim mm  wm mm m a!m 'w mm m
EHomE-n1UR -r A* ' CCOWPM* H6fur > auk*
OPENS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15th AT A THEATRE NEAR YOU.
their season, but were just outmanned by tl 
Dukes, and were worn down by the 
period. The Tartans had just twelve skata 
Ted Dawson, Paul Russo and Sean McGii 
were the only defensemen.
Eric Spray and Corkery had the goals) 
CMU. Corkery played well all weekend, w 
ning WRCT player of the game honors 
Friday night. McGinn took the m 
Sunday.
The Tartans are now 6-7-1 on the ve: 
battling with West Virginia for third pli 
in the conference, behind Duquesne ai 
Pitt. The next game is Saturday 
Penn State.
c
These are just some of the sports 
here at CMU. If you are interested 
in joining the sports staff of The 
Tartan, or just interested in im
proving sports coverage, come to 
a meeting with the Tartan sports 
staff and members of the CM 
sporting community, Thursday, 
February 14, at 3:30 in W 
Women's Gym.
The Tartan. The effort is being made to bring you * 
best sports coverage CM ] 
has ever seen.
GOLF
La rosse
FENC/NG
Long bus trip hurts Ice 
Tartans in Gannon loss

---------------------------------------------------

February 12, 1985-The Tartan-Page 23
The Number Sheet
IM Standings 
Majors
CMU Mens Basketball Stats
(in im 75K To Start 
Mission II 
eta
ream Team
DI
UPA
Intermediate
m A
GSIA) White Knight 
heta Xi-B 
teel City Cafe 
:lta Alpha Lambdat
usarchs 
TO Hogs
lestined Truculents
m B 
ath Grads 
rdans Angels 
TO Pledges 
ecret Squirrels 
andlelight Lounge 
etas Wooglin 5 
SIA) The Technique 
DP
m C 
rewers
he Old Men
U-A
omb Squad 
harlie the Jew 
ggmen
TO Unlisted 
ase
D 
ywalkers 
enerates 
at. Significant 
uming Machine 
'a-B
i Kappa Theta 
oon Unit Normal 
TO Tide
E 
he Doctors 
tas Das Boot 
aliers 
etal-Orgy 
A
aPPa Sigma-A 
ver 200 Lbs.
I Bio 
p>
Id Millworkers 
e Franchise 
netrators 
eta-Xi 
eysa
othership
Minors
na (S)
,ster Highmen 
*am
d Row
Leatherette
E-C
U.N.
n Without Talent 
fits
N6i2 IGM fGAELTITMUAEd, SJMQ.PF-n A no RT K ST TP
Won-LostGeorett Debki1744111396183ft.fiftftfi5/3.844-110?7110106fi.2
6-0Dv>aA 11 V a i ' c174199.414112*_44ftlftfi/fi.247-41191ft1293
3-1Hart l.olemjii177?1774ft729fi24fi8149/8.848-ft24ft311.31731ft.2
3-1Rubo ! Rrown13?4ftft43fi1723.73924/1.835-4223.3ft12fiftft.ft
2-2Muhad "su  rt1747lift3fi212lfi7fft27/1. fi28-ft3243ft9Iftfifi 2
2-4lohn li or min .i179?186.4957ft9fi7298ft/*.ft42-13ftfift31725414.9
1-3David Bau1630654fi29IR5ftft37/2.320-02922ft17694.3
0-6Richard Neff175?119.43729ftft.58ft80/4.737-ft133131ft1.337.8
lem. < k';164lfi2ftft1423fift928/1.831-ftft42211ft221.4
Won-LostMese Iudir.au113.333ftftftftft2/2.ft1-ft12ftft?2.ft
4-1Da', i;i -v :*i10ft.ftftft(1ft.ftftft2/2.ftft-ftftftftftftft ft
3-1john 3n ndi'!?00.ftftftft1ftftft2/1. ft3-ftft1ft1ftft.ft
2-1Lui.t: Demo101.ftftft221 ftftft1/1.ftft-ftft2ftft?2.ft
3-3114,250o1000ft/ftft-ftoooo22.0
1-4
0-3CMU
OPP.
17
17
419
486
988
1033
.424
.470
213
242
352
360
.605
.672
704/41.4
669/39.4
351-10
341-10
200
209
304
254
49
29
117
145
1051
1214
61.8
71.4
PPG
Won-Lost
3-0
1-0
2-1
2-1
2-3
1-3
0-3
Won-Lost
5-0
2-0 
2-1 
2-1 
2-2
1-3 
0-3
0-4
Won-Lost
5-0
3-0
3-0
1-1 
1-2
1-3 
0-3
0-5
Won-Lost
4-0 
4-1
3-1
2-1
1-2
1-3 
0-3
0-4
Won-Lost
4-1
3-1
3-2
2-3 
2-2 
2-2
1-3
0-5
Won-Lost
2-0
3-1 
2-1 
3-2 
2-2
1-4 
0-3
Won-Lost
4-0
3-0
2-1
1-2
1-3
0-1
0-2
0-2
Patera (P)
1. Hampshire Hall
2. I Tappa Kegga
3. Kappa Sig-H
4. DU-B
5. Rimmers
6. VLS Intellectuals
7. Scobell
8. Boss-Doherty
Won-Lost.
4-0
3-0
3-1
1-1
1-2
1-3
0-3
0-3
Valentine (V)
1. Fletchers
2. History Grads
3. Jamalots
4. DTD
5. Dudes
6. AF ROTC 1
7. Bloody Tourists
8. 11,23 D
Won-Lost
3-0
3-1
2-1
1-1
1-2
1-2
0-2
0-2
Muraco (M)
1. Mungmen
2. ZOO
3. ACO
4. Dynamic Rams
5. Inner Party
6. AF ROTC 2
7. Lost Cause
8. Future Prof.
Won-Lost
2-0
3-1
2-1
1-1
1-2
1-2
1-3
1-2lY SENTRYSENTRY Y SENTRY SENTRY YSENTRYSENTR
Raising the standard 
in ATE careers
Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) is one of the fastest growing industries in 
high technology. In terms of dollars invested, people hired and energy 
spent, no company has done more to raise the worldwide standard for 
high-performance ATE than Sentry Digital Test Systems.
Sentry is the name that semiconductor test experts identify with the top of 
the line in Automatic Test Equipment for LSI and VLSI  and have for the 
past decade. So when we decided to change our company name, the 
choice was obvious. Fairchild Digital Test Systems is now Sentry Digital 
Test Systems. Were proud to invite you to join Sentry  a name already 
well known.
Graduates with a BS or MS in Electrical Engineering or Computer Science 
will find exceptional career opportunities with Sentry Digital Test Systems 
in the following areas:
 Design Engineering  Manufacturing
 Test Engineering  Production Control
 Reliability Engineering  Purchasing
 Software Engineering
tR5LFBG,V hRbPIOMPwV
Wednesday February 20
Let us show you how raising the standard in ATE technology can raise the 
standard for your career. Contact your Placement Office, or send your 
resume directly to Greg Young, University Relations Manager, Sentry 
Digital Test Systems, 1725 Technology Drive, San Jose, CA 95115. An
equal opportunity employer.
SENTRY
Schlumberger
Digital Test Systems

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.Peop/Excess
Last year it was Electrical Engineering. This year its Math. 
Here we go again.
It seems that, like so many major airlines, the administra
tion has overbooked the spaces it has available this time 
for freshmen in the Math Department. CMU is not nearly 
as well equipped as an airline to handle an overload of peo
ple, and CMUs flight is one which many students cant af
ford to miss.
When an airline finds it has too many passengers, the first 
tactic it tries in order to make its quota is to ask those already 
seated on the plane to debark voluntarily, usually at the in
centive of $100 or so in cash. If enough people do not leave 
the plane, the airline will then raise its offer, either in cash 
or in free tickets to anywhere the airline flies. Finally, it opens 
up to the waiting passengers, admits to them that there are 
not enough seats, and attempts with very generous offers, to 
influence enough passengers to take a later flight. The airline 
also assists bumped pasengers in finding the next available 
flight -even if it requires placing those passengers on a com
peting airline. Whatever the solutions, the airline is bound 
by law to honor the agreement purchased from them by the 
passenger in the form of a ticket.
The airline industry has found ways to deal with its seating 
problems successfully, at least most of the time. CMU, 
however, continually has difficulty dealing with an overabun
dance of students requesting entrance into particular 
departments.
The University knowingly overbooks the spaces it has 
available for entering freshmen, which is understandable. 
Many students change their minds, and if the University were 
only to accept the exact number which it needed, it would 
find itself short of students every year. The University also 
assumes the existence of a fudge factor the unpredictable 
number of students who will drop out of a program or transfer 
to a different department. It estimates this factor every year, 
and accepts students into each school on that basis.
But the University doesnt take such precautions voithin the 
schools. Last year, the overacceptance problem occurred in 
the Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) Department 
of CIT. More than 225 students vied for 125 positions in ECE 
at first; when it seemed that there would still be too many 
students and enough spaces, CIT notified its students of the 
impending predicament, and asked for volunteers to explore 
other fields of study. The school also offered to raise the 
number of students to be accepted into ECE to approximately 
175; however, the freshmen were warned that it would be 
necessary to hire part-time teaching staff, and that the high 
student load would lower the quality of teaching. Further
more, students were told that if an overload still existed after 
all the Departments efforts, the ECE would weed out 
students: either the Department would accept only those with 
a QJPA above 3.2, or it would accept all those above 3.6 with 
the remaining spaces filled by lottery. Many students have 
left the Department, and even CIT, since then. However, an 
overload still exists in the ECE program.
Now the Math Department faces a similar situation. Ac
cording to Robert Kail, Associate Dean of CIT/MCS, there 
is indeed an overload of students intending to declare a ma
jor in Math this semester. He notes, though, that the students 
have been duly notified of the problem, and have known 
about it for some time.
We can understand the plight of the University in dealing 
with overbooking. However, we cannot condone the way 
in which CMU changes the rules in the middle of the game.
Weeding and lotteries are unacceptable methods for trim
ming a departments size. Many students make a large sacrifice 
in deciding to attend a particular university, especially an 
expensive private school like CMU. Once they have made the 
commitment to come here, they deserve a reciprocal com
mitment to provide them the best possible education. No one 
expects to be thrown off the plane in the middle of the flight.
We do not profess to know the solution to this overcrowding 
problem. At the same time, though, we feel the administra
tion must find better ways to bear the responsibility of 
educating those students which it has accepted for attendance.
We hope that the administration and/or the Math Depart
ment will be able to deal with this situation in a fairer, more 
acceptable manner, consulting students if possible; at the very 
least, they should explain their actions to us. After all, it is 
they who are better qualified to make such decisions, and 
who have the information and resources available to imple
ment them. CMU Airways should be able to fulfill the needs 
of each of its passengers.
vI;X;Xv>X;X*XXv.-%.l^^^^^
illl!
mm
lliiii:
mi
<<>>>>!
V"

M.SoSSMAM
Ladies and Gentlemen, Im afraid were still too loaded down, 
is there anyone else who wouldnt mind...
Mutilated books not onlyi - m _ m iviuuiaicu uuu/\z> nuiLGTTGlS. complaint at library
Editor:
Its not everyday when one ar
rives at his scheduled work-study 
job, is suddenly pulled into a 
private room by his employer, and 
told, Were not allowed to let you 
work here anymore.
I had been hired for a position 
in the Music Library in December 
and returned to campus early to 
arrange scheduling for the Spring 
semester. My employer seemed 
pleased with my background and 
anticipated my work in the 
recently vacated position of 
equipment maintenance. I had 
just begun my job when the above 
incident took place.
So what had happened? The 
librarian mentioned a black mark 
on my personnel record from 
when I worked in E&S, and ask
ed if I knew what it was. I did.
I spent three semesters of 
drudgery there, pasting labels 
and shelving books at minimum 
wage. But was it not common 
policy for a wage increase after a 
years work? Yes, but only if one 
began the job in September, I was 
told. I began in January, so I 
wasnt entitled to more pay until 
September. I tried to rectify this 
library policy, as my low pay 
didnt seem justified. However, 
everyone said rules are rules 
and took no interest in modifying 
them.
At one point my persistence ap
peared to have materialized when 
I got an appointment with Presi
dent Cyert. He seemed to take a 
genuine interest, promised that 
the policy would be revised, and 
even offered to pay me the dif
ference in salary straight from his 
wallet. Then he hesitated, and 
decided it would be better if I 
received the discrepancy through 
more offical channels, yet assured 
me Id get it. I didnt.
The policy was revised, though 
after I had left the country. Two 
years later, Thomas Michalak, 
Director of the Libraries, was the 
last to forget.
It was he with whom I had 
spoken about my dismissal from 
my post at the Music Library. 
Yes, he remembered my name 
well but insisted that my removal 
from this new job had nothing to 
do with the disturbance I caused 
two years ago, although he 
remarked in rather unflattering 
language that the administration 
had no business meddling in the 
Libraries affairs. He claimed 
that I could not be hired (even 
though I already hacf been) bas
ed on my performance at the E&S 
Library.
I admit that my heart wasnt 
completely in the work of 
tediously pushing book carts 
around. But my employer never
expressed dissatisfaction witl 
work and did keep me for t 
semesters. After I was told 
Michalak that my evaluation] 
unsatisfactory, my fori 
employer said he had 
satisfied, but not impressed,] 
my work. Paraphrasing, It 
ly give outstanding evaluati 
but I suppose Mr. Michalakii 
prets them more strictly I 
do.
Mr. Michalak suggestedtl 
had not indicated enough i 
sibility in my past perform* 
be able to handle a job inj 
. library. And being a dispatj 
at Campus Police doesnt i 
responsibility?
I find it disturbing that s 
course of events has been atn 
occur, and that nobodyj 
Warner Hall could do 
about it. We still havejoM 
in food service wasnt what II 
in mind. I had a job thatroj 
to my studies, and it 
taken from me only ^ 
organized my schedule aro
I guess I shouldnt exP 
paycheck for the several 
had already worked theree 
Nor her t Set 
Math/Mu
15-111 in the old days
Editor:
Answering Dan Tobias column 
. . . Dan, I sympathize with your 
complaints, but you should count 
your blessings. I remember in 
1980, before the EDUs existed, 
what it was like to take 15-111. 
Back then, we used the TOPS 
systems, in fact one TOPS system, 
which was frequently overloaded, 
slow, and prone to crashing. For
an editor, we were taught EDIT 
(!), if you can believe it. Anyone 
wanting to use EMACS had to 
learn it herself. Few did. The 
masteries were held in the Cave. 
Our lecturers were foreign grad 
students with poor English. I tell 
you, it was no fun. I am familiar 
with both ALOE and EMACS 
and found ALOE quite usable, 
even convenient for programm
ing. I suppose students 
have a choice, but many ^ 
dont know either editor, 
my experience the big8*fi 
ing block to learning 1, . VnuC^l syntactic problems. * m
agine the wasted ^urS5^|
ing to get a program t0 j
when ALOE would hav
the error immedia^
Millers policies may he ^
ever, but the equipment * 
U1
m

---------------------------------------------------

February 12, 1985The TartanPage 25
Or Letters: On frothing deathmongers" and "defense research
A/
w0uld like to respond to two 
cles if I may.
.ebuttal No. 1: The January 
Tartan contained an opinion 
e article entitled Behold the 
 Hoping to become better ined on issues surrounding the 
I read it. The article, I am 
id, did not do its title justice, 
author opened with the ques
ts CMU turning into a war 
re? The rhyme compensates 
bsence of meter but the quesis provacative only in that 
wonders what a war whore 
Id possibly be.
he author proceeded to 
er his question, in a manner 
Ipeaking, by constructing a 
|aic framework for a collection 
absurd metaphors and
misnomers (inserted paren
thetically) in which the SEI is 
described as a software Ar
mageddon, its prospective pro
jects are sleek new death 
machines to be used on random 
populations in selected Third 
World countries, and conser
vative supporters of the SEI are 
labeled, frothing deathmongers 
of the political right.
What was the point of the ar
ticle? Does the author advocate 
disbandment of the military? A 
halt to weapons production? Or 
does he acknowledge the necessi
ty of a military establishment and 
seek only to prevent CMU from 
dirtying its hands in the business? 
Perhaps he was just blowing off 
steam. If his intent was to inform 
or persuade, he failed.
The Tartan is not a tabloid. It 
is a university newspaper with an 
educated readership. Such sensa
tionalism and ballyhoo are inap
propriate for its pages. I would 
welcome rational, informative ar
ticles on the SEI in future issues.
Rebuttal No. 2: This is in 
response to last weeks letter to the 
editor in which a group of masters 
candidates protested a recruiting 
ad by a weapons manufacturer 
which had run in a previous issue 
of The Tartan. Before launching 
into my rebuttal, let me com
mend the authors for the rational 
tone of their letter.
They claim no objection to 
defensive military research. Good. 
I wont have to argue for the 
necessity of a military defense. 
Their objection was to the ads
portrayal of an offensive weapon, 
a missile. But is it possible to 
classify military hardware as of
fensive or defensive? The only 
purely defensive features of 
military hardware I can think of 
are camouflage, armor, and 
evasiveness. However, some lethal 
weapons are considered to be tac
tically defensive. For instance, a 
short range surface-to-air missile 
is considered defensive in that it 
deters direct airborne attack. It 
may be hard to conceive of such 
a weapon, packed with explosive 
and shrapnel, as a defensive 
device. Its defensive nature lies in 
its application, not its construc
tion. Similarly, larger range and 
strategic weapons are defensive if 
their purpose is deterrence.
I wish guided missiles had
never been developed. But the 
genie is out of the bottle. We can
not, with prudence, neglect 
weapons development in the hope 
that potential adversaries will do 
likewise. Our military force, 
through the deterrent power of its 
weapons, maintains a degree of 
international stability and securi
ty little appreciated by most 
citizens. Weapons manufacturers, 
therefore, provide an important 
service. And I am sure the intent 
of the ad, which caused such of
fense, was not the glorification of 
the destructiveness of missiles but 
merely a means of impressing 
prospective recruits with the com
panys involvement in high 
technology.
Bob McNeely 
GSIA
iand of change will 
l/'f the DECs as well
VIEWPOINT: Ward Travis
owly, the hand moves. Slowly it makes 
langes. Slowly the hand touches us all. 
Ily moves the hand. It plows on, glacier, 
jy unstoppable. Its more than just terkls. Termination? A way of life. What 
[of life, hmm, a question there. Hands.
e hand removed the terminals in WeH 
Then 5201 became inaccesible to 
users. There were too few consultants, 
me wanted the PCs to be unguarded 
n vulnerable at night. No one explain - 
iy 5201 could not be open like the UCC 
MP, 24 hours a day. 
t students residing in Morewood,
e, and the frats, Wean is closer than 
> and is the next preference after the 
gets full. And lets talk walking that 
block from the Hill, in cold weather, 
ut socks, it can be bad. I sold my 
Anyway.
essed, back then, that they intended 
Id a wall and close 5li00 off completeen it might not be 24 hours at all. And
11, then all the people who use TOPS 
(nightly) will have lost another good 
point to the mainframes, 
ybe that is the point. Maybe were all 
Pushed off the mainframes by the 
Sockless, frameless. Oh. 
k at cross section of people who
ere) responsible for a good deal of the 
n the 20s. There are two 
isionsfolks Scribing and the CS 
ads- The first class was trimmed 
erably when the Humanities (and 
I colleges were told that they could 
e most f their diminishing budgets 
ling out the standard paper act0 undergrads, and encouragm t0 Use the PCs instead. That cut 
, num^er of people off the mainrrpletely. They can still get request 
ts, true.
other subdivision, take a look
to h ^ an excePtrn> the hand f at the course currently cannot be
n pr\ r .
I -p, .  te software isnt portable
lot S c^an^nS- though the hand
ave its fingers in those actions. 
ejc  at the 15-2xx students; they
ror l just recemly (this 
j. J l use the Cluster, a Pascal difrhe Pascal the students have
used for years, a Pascal with no debugger. 
They got amazingly small accounts on the 
20s, just for receiving mail etc.
The upper-level students were in the 
clear like 15-312 students. 15-312 is Com
parative Programming Languages, and is 
devoted to exposing students to the large 
number of computer programming 
languages that exist, and what they each 
have to offer. I took 15-312 this semester. 
We used the 20s and had roomy accounts, 
though they were almost all gone by the end 
of the semester. This is mainly because the 
hand has not adopted any really advanced 
software (besides Epsilon, and possibly 
Scribble) for the PCs, in particular any Lisp 
systems or a Snobol system. (Lisp and Snobol 
are languages that TOPS has standard im
plementations of which are studied in 
15-312). And it seems clear that no one is 
going to create a Snobol for the PCs. (They 
just did, I hear. Cant say Im floored.) Since 
that leaves only the 20s, 312 folks were home 
free with accounts this semester.
But then a strange thing happened. 
Maybe the hand passed by unseen. The 312 
students found themselves on Macintoshes, 
studying something that has not been shown 
to be a programming language at all. 
Whereas each language studied over the rest 
of the semester had obvious things to teach 
us, Macintosh Multiplan had very little. 
This is a hightly debatable point, to be sure. 
It was a language where procedures and 
functions were geometrically isolated areas 
of data dependencies, a language like none 
other to be sure. Whereas it was an in
teresting experiment, one felt the hand at 
work afterwards. Higher level CS courses, 
like Graphics, started using the PCs last 
year. I foresee a day when Compiler Design 
will be done on the PCs.
But this is detail. I want to generalize. 
What? Theyre my ankles.
Well? Doesnt anyone else see it? At each 
level, freshman, sophomore, junior, and 
senior, the hand closes the mainfrmes, 
shades their influence on students work 
habits.
Slowly, we are learning to wait. That is 
it. We are learning, we are being taught. 
Taught that things are different on a PC. 
Taught that the approach to programming 
continued on pag* 26
Notes from the Chair
By Michael Bett
Did you ever write a column titled From 
the Chair for The Tartan and have trou
ble coming up with a topic?
You didnt, you say?
Thats funny, because thats exactly what 
happened to me. I mean it, thats exactly 
what happened! So youre wondering what 
this weeks article is about. Yeah, I know. 
This time I thought youd like to know what 
Student Senate did in a typical week.
The Senate petition to move the calendar 
back to a pre-Labor Day start of classes was 
presented to the Registrar, Dick Rainsberger. 
Youll be happy to know that we were suc
cessful in our efforts. As a result of the peti
tion, classes will be moved to a pre-Labor 
Day start for the fall semester. However, the 
spring semester will also start one week 
earlier than currently planned, on January 
7 th. This allows time for the two seven-week 
summer sessions.
Senate also presented the Registrar a peti
tion to make registration two weeks earlier 
this year. Currently, registration for the next 
semester is scheduled for the last fullweek 
before finals' Unfortunately, it appears that 
we were too late on this one, although in 
future years registration will not be schedul
ed for the last week before finals. Faculty 
Senate also endorsed our actions.
You win one, you lose one, but were 
trying.
By now youre probably saying, Gee, 
Senate circulated a lot of petitions! True, 
we did that and a lot more. Read on.
Nick Gianaris, Bob Waldron and myself 
went to Dr. Cyert about using the Brimmer 
House (the house behind Kappa Sigma) for 
the campus pub. Dr. Cyert was really enthus
ed with this, and as it turned out the Brim
mer House will be used for student space. 
Some fire regulations still remain to be work
ed out, but it will be ours to use and enjoy.
But wait, thats not all. Two weeks ago,
Opinion Policy
FiMinrials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of Thr Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those o/The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Lett to the Editor are opinions of mdixtdual 
authors who are usually members of the I nwersity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for i>erification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan resen>es 
the right to condense or reject any letter.___________
Senate received several complaints from 
students about snow not being shoveled on 
weekends. As usual, we were quick to res
pond to the student bodys requests. Physical 
Plant was contacted and notified of the pro
blem. They said they realized the problem 
and that snow would be shoveled on the 
weekends from now on. Youll recall it was 
shoveled the weekend before last, thanks to 
Student Senate and the Physical Plant.
Amazing, youre saying, Student Senate 
really does get things done! Well, that is the 
truth. It must be, its in print.
I hear the cries, Give us more! Well, your 
wish is my command. More will be coming 
at the Student Senate meeting tonight. Dr. 
Stern will be addressing Senate on the In
tellectual Property Policy and its effects on 
students. You will also hear the results of last 
weeks activities. The Senate meeting is at 
7:00 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. All 
members of the campus community are in
vited to bring their questions, comments and 
criticisms. But most of all, youre invited to 
bring yourself.
Michael Bett is a junior majoring in 
Mathematics and is Chairman of the Stu
dent Senate.
fij
Editor-in-chief ...............Stephen Volan
Managing Editor.............Mike Pilewski
Business Manager .. John Friedmann
News Editor..........................Karen Gray
Features Editor....................Ric Medrow
Entertainment Editor.............. Al Datri
Sports Editor ... Christopher D. Lewis
Photography Editor____Mike Pilewski
Acme Editor ...................Mohan Embar
Art Manager........Michael A. Sussman
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager___Jill Clelland
Asst. Business Mgr. ... John Lumpkin
Asst. News Editor..........Jennifer Even
Asst. Photo Editor................Dan Pellish
Asst. Art Mgr.....................Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. .. Joe Hasper
Contributing Editors: Peter Bain, Judy 
Merrill, Bonnie Topf, Pauline Wen, Neil 
Greenblum
Production Staff: John Blanck, Don Eggert, Don Gamble, Chris Telfer 
Art Staff: Burton Morris, Joe Tomko, Jim 
Voorhees, Rob Yaffe
Copyright 1985 by The Tartun The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: Skibo 
50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52. (412) 
578 2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Mailing ad 
dress: Skibo 103. Carnegie-Mellon University. Pitts
burgh. PA 15213.
Funded by the Activities Fee. Alt rights reserved.
L

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanFebruary 12, 1985
Viewpoint: Even CMU's computers will change
continued from page 25
on a PC is different. Too long have we all 
been spoiled by the transparencies of main
frame use. Now we are all being taught the 
backwoods of distributed computing.
One does not log in, one turns on. One 
does not have an account, one has floppy 
disks. One does not have disk quotas, one 
disk full, file not copied. One does not have 
a load average, one has no PCs available. 
One does not have Decnet, one has Pronet 
and its valet Kermit. One does not have 
nightly backups, one has the Pronet ar
chiver. One does not compute Turbo. One 
does not enter the debugger, one adds it 
himself. One does not, one has. One does
OVERSEAS EMPLOYMENT
WORLD-SIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEN AND WOMEN! 
JAPAN - EUROPE - AFRICA - AUSTRALIA - THE SOUTH 
PACIFIC - SOUTH AMERICA - THE FAR EAST.
EXCELLENT BENEFITS. HIGHER SALARIES AND WAGES! 
FREE TRANSPORTATION! GENEROUS VACATIONS!
More than 300,000 Americans Japan, Africa, The South
 not including members of 
the armed services  are 
now living overseas. These 
people are engaged in nearly 
every possible activi
ty...construction, engineer
ing, sales, transportation, 
secretarial work, accoun
ting, manufacturing, oil 
refining, teaching, nursing, 
government, etc.-etc. And 
many are earning $2,000 to 
$5,000per month...or more!
To allow you the op
portunity to apply for 
overseas employment, we 
have researched and compil
ed a new and exciting direc
tory on overseas employ
ment. Here is just a sample 
of what our International 
Employment Directory 
covers.
(1). Our International 
Employment Directory lists 
dozens of cruise ship com
panies, both on the east and 
west coast. You will be told 
what type of positions the 
cruise ship companies hire, 
such as deck hands, 
restaurant help, cooks, 
bartenders, just to name a 
few. You will also receive 
several Employment Ap
plication Forms that you 
may send directly to the 
companies you would like to 
work for.
(2). Firms and organiza
tions employing all types of 
personnel in Australia,
Pacific, The Far East, South 
America...nearly every part 
of the free world!
( 3). Companies and 
Government agencies 
employing personnel in near
ly every occupation, from 
the unskilled laborer to the 
college trained professional 
man or woman.
(4). Firms and organiza
tions engaged in foreign con
struction projects, manufac
turing, mining, oil refining, 
engineering, sales, services, 
teaching, etc., etc.
(5). How and where to ap
ply for overseas Government 
jobs.
(6). Information about 
summer jobs.
(7). You will receive our 
Employment Opportunity 
Digest...jam-packed with in
formation about current job 
opportunities. Special sec
tions features news of 
overseas construction pro
jects, executive positions 
and teaching opportunities.90 Day Money Back Guarantee
Our International Employ
ment Directory is sent to you 
with this guarantee. If for 
any reason you do not obtain 
overseas employment or you 
are not satisfied with the job 
offers...simply return our 
Directory within 90 days and 
well refund your money pro 
mptly...no questions asked.
ORDER FORM
International Employment Directory 
131 Elma Dr. Dept. T21 
Centralia, WA 98531
Please send me a copy of your International Employment
Directory. I understand that I may use this information for 90 
days and if I am not satisfied with the results, I may return 
your Directory for an immediate refund. On that basis Im 
enclosing $20.00 cash. .. check.... or money order.... for your 
Directory.
NAME ___________________________________________________
please print
ADDRESS
CITYSTATEZIP
International Employment Directory 1984
not. One has.
This is the lesson. One does not, one has. 
Pay attention. Say it out loud. One does not. 
One has.
We are learning that mainframes are 
bourgeois mammoths, and those who use 
them the Bourgeoisie. We are headed for 
economy in computing, are headed for the 
trimming. We learn to row the one man 
boats; we leave and the vast storage of the 
mainframes. One does not. We afford 
ourselves only private cycles. We distribute 
the costs of computing, from the rich to the 
poor. One buys ones own cycles, one has his 
own PC. One has.
One does not; one has. Say it out loud. 
Write it down.
And now the slow learners are at 
Those of us who will not accept the h 
passage. Those who continue to make^i 
days at the mainframes. Those whocli 
the old way of life. We cling to the 20s 
the slow hand will brush us off and i 
us along.'
Ward Travis is a junior in Appl. Afa^;)
Viewpoint is a guest column uritten 
a different member of the CMU comm 
ty every week. To submit an articlefor(i 
sideration as a Viewpoint, send it typefa 
double-spaced to: Editor, The Tan 
Skibo 103, CMU, Pittsburgh 159 
Deadline is Friday at 5:00 pm for the 
Tuesdays paper. No manuscripts w 
returned.
35mm
Prints and Slides from the same roll
Kodak MP film... Eastman Kodaks professional color motion picture film now 
adapted for still use in 35 mm cameras by Seatde FilmWorks. Its micro-fine grain 
and rich color saturation meet the exacting standards of the movie industry. With 
wide exposure latitude, you dont have to be a pro to get great everyday shots or 
capture special effects. Shoot in low or bright light from 200 ASA upto 1200 ASA. 
Get prints or slides, or both, from the same roll. ei984 Seattle FilmWorks
"iNTRODUCTOBY OFFER? Rush me two 20-exposure rolls of your leading KODAK MP film-Kodak 5247 (200 ASA). Enclosed is $2.00. Id like to be able to get color prints or slides (or both) from the same roll and experience the remarkable versatility of this professional quality film.
NAME
ADDRESS
ZIPCITY STATE ^
Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks 
500 Third Avenue West, P.O. Box C-34056 
Seatde, WA 98124
Kodak 5247 is a registered trademark of the Eastman Kodak Company. Unlit of 2 rolls per customer.
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT 
BLOW STYLE)A
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES
$25.00
COLOR
never met u head we didn't like
. . .With apologies to Will Rogers, 
the great American humorist.
The point we're trying to make, 
of course, is that many haircutters only see hair when they 
look at a head.
At Great X", we look at the 
whole head as well as the hair. 
We also listen to what the head 
says, how he or she pictures himMon, Tues, Wed 107 
Thurs, Fri 109 
Sat 96
self or herself after the haircut.
Our haircutters are trained to put 
it all together ... so that the 
final product is more than just an 
example of expert haircutting 
. but a perfect representation of 
who you want to be.
Every head's a winner, when it 
heads for. . .
SO APPOINTAI
687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
iff j 
5NOiiSTPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Str
Across the str ^ 
the Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Just a little crazy.
"AT SILICON SYSTEMS, 
CAREER GROWTH 
KNOWS NO BOUNDS
With revenues up 150 percent over 
last year, Silicon Systems needs people 
who welcome the challenge and achieve
ment potential which that growth 
represents
People who will help us handle 
that growth in stride People to join our 
LSI design team, one of the industry's 
finest People to operate our new, highly 
advanced wafer fab and test facilities 
People to help us define innovative 1C 
products and open up new markets 
worldwide
Finding the right individuals is cru
cial to corporate growth So we challenge 
our employees to work at the leading edge 
of 1C technology We let them advance to 
the limits of their imagination. And we 
offer them superior work environments at 
a choice of desirable locations
That's how we've attracted and 
retained the top people available people 
who have propelled us to the forefront 
of our industry And that's how we've 
built a unique company culture and 
esprit-de-corps
Of course the rewards at Silicon 
Systems are commensurate with the con
tributions expected Rewards in career 
development, job enrichment, tuition 
refunds, graduate degree assistance, and 
in a liberal package of employee benefits 
Plus a stock plan that encourages 
employee ownership ^
If we re going in a direction you'd 
like to go, and if you'd like to move at our 
kind of pace, why not get in touch'?
Silicon Systems. 14351 Myford Road, Tustm, 
CA 92680 (714) 731-7110 Ext 6339
iy Silicon siistans
MW INNOVATORS IN/INTEGRATION
Campus interviews will be held on Tuesday. 
March 12. 1985. Please contact your Place
ment Office for an interview.
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

6T THE '
HtUNfc Ammys 
fOP-toTTtM SOWEfMUcT
CftfMftl
TXe^e exH'StT* su E\WP/yHcrr 
mer; 1u;Arl of mwr
W**** of Arr* ?
Wu.. ? *t*terOFiwese pee 
L peAtvy mopsx1an;d;1
i
Al
bEPB mNmew , <**e 
A*e pepMireiv uwvMOPEWOOD
6AKPCNS
universitydiningservice
y:
Uiltlo cofoMID-DAY
Salisbury SteakCheese Stuffed Shells/meatless sauce Baked Stuffed Zucchini
Lima Bean Casserole 
Sausage Omelette 
BBQ Ham Sandwich
Turkey Tetrazzini 
Hamburgers 
Roman Rice&Beans
BLT Sandwich
Macaroni/Tomatoes Cahflower Marranc*
Steak/Onion Sandwich 
Tuna Noodle Casserole 
Swiss Cheese Croquettes
French Toast/Sausage 
Cheese Dogs 
Chicken Ala King
Waffles/Bacon
Grilled Reubens
Swiss Cheese Sc Veg.Quiche
Stromboli Creamed Chicken Macaroni au gratin
Grilled Ham&Cheese 
Rigatoni/Meat Sauce 
Chili
Cheese Blmtzes
Potato Cakes'Corn Beef
Kugel
Vegetarian Pizza 
London Broil 
Shrimp Chow Mein
Fish Split Hoagie 
Turkey Tetrazzini 
Deli Bar
Everyday
Hot/Cold Deli 
Omelette to Order 
Hamburgers & Hotdogs
iKkiltie cofoEVENING
Stromboli California Quiche Deli Bar
Fried Perch 
Beef Burgundy 
Stuffed Shells/Sauce
Burritos/Chih 
Baked Ham 
California Quiche
VALENTINE DINNER
BBQ Spareribs 
Fish si Chips 
Cheese Blintzes/Sauce
Fried Chicken
Ham &. Turkey Supreme
Omelette Florentine
Grilled Pork Chops 
Hamburger SteaL/Gravy 
Chinese Fried Rice
FEBRUARY 11-17
JWorewood " Qaidcqs
Veal Parmesan Beef Stew Vegetable Fritatta
Cheese.Spinach & 
Beef Stew Baked Haddock/sa^
Cheese/ Mush.Qm^ 
Chicken Hawiian 
Meatloaf/Gravy
Ch.Ravioli/meatlc55
Sausage Omelets 
Turkey Devonshire
Veal Parm./tneatl^j 
Corned Beef/Ca^ 
Fettucinni All
Everyday 
Ctfrved Beef or
Funnies.
Joe Freshman
VA SO USED to IT. J COULDN'T GOWREHENO 
ttWNfe h 61RVlfMD
ON \lNi(uTiN'S____
. DM...
HEW i ft, ON MiNflNt'5 DftY A&MN, W1H NO 
IM-WENO-.-
;aa\
dra
By Mark Levii
PoindexterBy Maszle and Be\
