Drive-in Academy Awards See Diversions
Tennis Team Off to a Strong Startennivpi-{;itv Libraries
pecial Collections 
H, Campus 00000
The Taruui
Volume 81, Issue 22Carnegie Mellon UniversityApril 14,1987
Fights, Crowds Hurt Carnival
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Managing Editor
Excessive crowds and many fights 
necessitated the early closing of midway on 
Friday evening.
According to SgL Sima of campus 
security, "I made the decision to close the 
midway about a half hour early. I got on 
duty at 10:30 pm and in the first hour, we 
had over ten altercations to deal with. Most 
were just pushing matches, and they 
dispersed before we could do anything, but 
some were nasty...
A black female not affiliated with Carnegie 
Mellon was attacked with a ten inch butcher 
knife by several other black females. When 
security arrived, the attackers, reportedly of 
Parkview street dispersed. Midway monitors 
found the knife at the scene of the fight and 
turned it over to security.
A short time later, a group of white 
Canregie Mellon males, coming from the 
area of ATQ approacned several black males 
in the area between Skibo and Warner Hall. 
Eyewitnesses reported that the Carnegie 
Mellon students started harassing the other 
group. Pushing led to punches and one of 
the Caregie Mellon students received a 
broken nose. This was the only injury 
during the entire Carnival. City police 
arrived on the scene and several arrests were 
made.
All together, approximately nine persons 
were arrested during carnival. All but one 
were nonuniversity related. The other was 
a Carnegie Mellon alumnus who, after being 
warned once to desist from confrontations, 
five minutes later began another fight in the 
fraternity quad. Several other minor incidents 
were reported, such as a stolen jacket (which 
was recovered), and nonuniversity 
arguments and subsequent fights.
Pittsuburgh Police were summoned around 
11:15 to assist with traffic and crowd control
continued on page 2Charges Lessened in Assault Case
By AMY STEVENSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Keith Braho, the CMU freshman charged in 
the alleged assault of a Chatham student had 
his preliminary hearing last Thursday in the 
Pittsburgh Building of Public Safety. Braho 
was charged with aggravated assault and 
indecent assault in connection with an 
incident occuring at Thcta Xi in January.
The hearing was brief, with both attomies 
agreeing on a settlement to a lesser charge. 
Braho will go to trial for the charge of 
indecent assault, defined as taking liberties 
with a female against her will but without 
the intention of rape. However, the more 
serious of the two charges, aggravated 
assault, was dropped. A date was not set for 
the trial, but according to state laws it will 
be within 180 days.
Amid shouts and smoke bombs Spirit accepts their first place men's division trophy at Saturday 
evening's closing ceremonies for Carnival. Second-placers Beta Theta Pi were upset with the judges' decision, 
though, and made their feelings clearly known. See the Spring Carnival Supplement for the complete story.
Craig Street Gallery and CMU Art 
Dept. Looking for Settlement
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor 
By way of responding to recent complaints 
over the Carnegie Mellon Craig Street 
Gallery's new members-only opening policy, 
a joint meeting between faculty and students 
in the Art Department and Elaine King, 
Director of the Gallery, was held last 
Thursday. According to King, it was time 
to define this Gallery.
She outlined the three types of University 
Galleries as she sees them: the
permanent/scholarly collection, the service 
gallery which holds MFA, student and 
faculty shows, and the Kunsthalle with a 
continuously changing collection, which she
Buggy Rule 
Waived
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Shawn Stufft, Sweepstakes Chairman, 
announced at last Mondays driver and 
chairman meeting that he was going to 
waive the rule that forbade organizations 
from rolling all of their buggies the year 
after failing to roll in Sweepstakes when 
they had reserved lanes. This rule was 
established by alumni to keep organizations 
from scheduling rolls without having 
enough buggies for each roll. Now all the 
organizations can roll as many buggies as 
they want next year.
The rule would have affected nine groups 
next year. Because they had failed to qualify 
any buggies after they had reserved lanes: 
Pioneers, Pi Lamda Phi, Kappa Sigma, 
Alpha Tau Omega, and Delta Upsilon would 
not have been able to roll any buggies next 
year. In addition, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 
Student Dorm Council, Phi Kappa Theta, 
and Delta Tau Delta would not have been 
allowed to roll all of their buggies because 
they hadnt rolled all of them this year.
sees Craig St. as. She likened it to Mellon 
Institute, in that it deals with issues beyond 
the department and teaches by example. 
She also mentioned some changes in the old 
structure (when under the direction of the 
Pittsburgh Plan for Art) the Board is 
attempting to make. According to King, 
PPA didn't hold art shows: it was a 
club...[to which one gained admission by] 
Birthright. Professor Jim Denney added that 
it was a regional gallery then. King is 
working towards turning the Gallery into a 
national showcase for contemporary 
American art 
Again describing the openings perks for 
members, she mentioned the large amounts 
of funding necessary to keep the Gallery 
going as justification for holding openings 
for members only. King claims to raise 
Driveee for the Gallery each year by writing 
grants, although she says this alone isn't 
enough to maintain the Gallery's level of 
quality.
King also urged students to attend the 
opening of Martin Puryears show Saturday
evening. After heated debate resulting in a 
sudden and temporary reversal of the newly 
insulled policy, the Board of Directors 
decided to allow students to this opening, so 
long as they a) dressed properly, b) didn't 
hang around the pit as if it were a bar, c) 
didn't make it a 2 to 3 hour evening, and d) 
could produce proper I.D. in order to drink 
alcohol. Although the decision was only in 
effect Saturday night, the Board will decide 
over the summer whether or not to make any 
changes in the members-only policy. Said 
King; We need your participation, we need 
your co-operation.
Another discussion, this time involving 
CFA Dean Akram Midani, will be held 
today at 4:30 in the Loge. The purpose of 
this meeting is to generate a list of 
constructive solutions, which will be taken 
back to the Board.
Questions from students and faculty 
ensued. When questioned why students 
werent informed from the beginning, King 
responded that it was because the Gallery
continued on page 3
Union and Carnegie Mellon 
Reach Stalemate in Talks
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Contract negotiations between CMU and 
Local 29 of the Service Employees 
International Union , the union representing 
Physical Plant and University Dining 
Service employees, have reached a stalemate.
According to Lisa Wiedman, Director of 
Personnel and chief spokesperson for CMU's 
negotiations, Carnegie Mellon and Union 
leadership have not spoken, nor are talks 
scheduled, since the latest offer, reached 
through federal mediation, was rejected 
March 31. She cited the unavailability of the 
federal mediator as one stumbling block.
Wiedman refused to speculate on Local 29's 
next move. In the interim agreement Local 
29 is working under, CMU must give a 
seven day notice before it can lock out the 
employees, and the union likewise must 
give a seven day notice before it can strike.
When asked about why Local 29 rejected 
the last offer, Wiedman said, "I'm pretty 
confused about that myself. Before the vote, 
both sides had agreed to the terms worked 
out with the mediator." She said that CMU 
was willing to continue negotiations.
Ralph Terry, negotiation spokesman and 
Secretary Treasurer of Local 29, could not be 
reached for comment.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 14,1987
Crime and Incident Report
4/4 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 2:53 am 
Mary belle Apts. 2 people in the back of a 
pickup truck threw snowballs, broke 
windows on front of building. Both were 
issued state citations.
4/4 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 1:52 pm
North goalpost on field was turned around. 
4/4 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 11:11 
pm MG People throwing things out 
window of 6th floor, E-tower. Items included 
chairs, blankets, trays, and pieces of 
carpeting.
4/4 PROPERTY DAMAGE 11:33 pm 
Car tried to drive over lawn between Mudge 
and MG.
4/5 PROPERTY DAMAGE 5:24 am
Car tried to drive over lawn between Mudge 
and MG.
4/5 THEFT 1:57 pm RCA remote unit 
for TV stolen from Doherty Grad House.
4/6 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 12:47 am
Wean Hall Dedication plaque on 5th floor 
and big orange thing outside spraypainted.
4/6 THEFT 8:46 am 2 portable radios 
taken from Warner Hall.
4/6 BURGLARY 11 pm Roselawn 
Terrace Camera equipment taken.
4/7 ARREST 2:30 am Student arrested 
for arson by order of Pgh. Fire Dept. Student 
was witnessed setting fire to a trashcan filled 
with paper in Doherty Grad House, which 
set off fire alarm.
4/7 THEFT 8:50 am Circular saw and 
hammer taken from Wherret Room, Skibo. 
4/7 BURGLARY 2:30 pm 10-speed 
bike removed from closed back porch on 
Roselawn Terrace.
4/7 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 6:17 
pm Student drove through Carnival 
Barricade in Skibo lot
4/8 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 2:51 am 
Rock thrown through Sigma Nu window 
facing quad.
4/9 ARREST 5:22 pm Student arrested 
for Risking a catastrophe and criminal 
attempt Student set fire to a newspaper out 
of a pile of approximately 75 newspapers. 
Baker Hall foyer.
4/10 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 2:25 
am Alumnus from Phi Kap issued citation. 
4/10 THEFT 12:16 pm MG E-tower 
Panasonic radio removed.
4/10 PROPERTY DAMAGE 9:47 pm 
CFA lot 2 students bent metal supports and 
broke ropes surrounding newly seeded area of 
grass.
4/10 DISORDERLY CONDUCT
11:07 pm 2 female juveniles in 
confrontation in front of KDR booth on 
midway. 10" butcher knife was confiscated 
from one of them.
4/11 SPECIAL 12:09 am Car stopped at 
Forbes and Morewood was struck by another 
car who slammed on his brakes. Fight on 
comer had spilled out into street, causing the 
driving to apply brakes. Victim's right front 
fender damaged.
4/11 UNDERAGE DRINKING 1:28 
am 2 visitors at Pi Lam were disorderly and 
causing an altercation. Both were issued 
citations.
4/11 ASSAULT 3:18 am Female 
Duquesne student claimed CMU boyfriend 
struck her in the face. Not pressing charges.
our dough mode FRESH doily
10 IVY STRICT  SHADTSfDf
682-3333 .
FREE DELIVERY TO:
 Shodyside  PI Bfeeie 
 Sq. Hill  Oakland 
 Friendship Park 
 Bloomfield 
 Highland
FREE DELIVERY
FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALL FOR FREE DELIVERY 1 2 NOON TO 1 2 MIDNIGH682-333

I






I
COUPON
Large Cheese Pizza
$3.99 
Free liter of coke
(Ail sandwiches come with n.eited provolone chee1 and are OVENBAKEOt
Italian Hoagie.............................4.00
Vi Hoagie............................... 2.00
Hot Sausage.............................3.00
Meat Ball....................................3.90
Cheese Hoagie...........................3.20Steak Hoagie. :...........................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. ................4.20
Cold Sub................................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)......................4.70
(Raal Italian Capicolli with Often 
Rappors, Muahrooma  that Special Touch)
*rath lattuca. tomato, onion  unioaa apoctt&df 
Roppora or Muahrooma  25* Entro)
4/11 PROPERTY DAMAGE 3:48 am 
Pole light in front of Theta Xi House was 
damaged.
4/11 BURGLARY 1:47 pm Radio
stolen from professor's office in Baker Hall. 
4/11 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 9:06
pm Sigma Nu alumnus attempting to drive 
4WD vehicle over grassy hillside by Sigma 
Nu house.
4/12 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 10:43
am Passenger side window of car broken 
while parked in front of Pika.
4/12 ARREST 1:52 pm Outsider on 4th 
floor of Scaife Hall attempting to enter 
offices. Arrested for criminal tresspass and 
possession of instruments of crime
(screwdriver and keys.)
Carnival Fights Close 
Midway Early
continued from page 1
The closing of midway was partly due to 
the possibility that they [Pittsburgh Police] 
might not be available later. The crowds on 
midway were enormous, and fights were 
prevalent. Security and Midway monitors 
had little problems in closing the midway 
and dispersing the crowds.
Saturday night, by contrast, went 
extremely well. "This was attributed to the 
carnival monitors and city police who really 
helped to maintain order," SgL Sima stated. 
Also, this is the first year they had security 
people walking through the fraternities. He 
added, "We tried to keep moving out the 
outsiders...this carnival is for our students, 
and they [outsiders], mostly high school 
kids, were just not welcome."
-nAca dnmyw synw So 
TyOftA Tygch
PITTSBURGH  Carroll M. Gantz, 
former director of industrial design for 
the Household Products of Black & 
Decker U.S., Inc., had been named 
head of Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
Department of Design, effective July 
1.
A past president and chairman of the 
board of the Industrial Designers 
Society of America, Gantz holds more 
than 25 U.S. design patents, including 
that for the Dustbuster hand-held 
vacuum  Black & Deckers most 
successful product. Before joining 
Black & Decker, he was with the 
industrial design department of the 
Hoover Company.
Gantz is a 1953 graduate of Carnegie 
Mellons Department of Design.
Correction: In the April 7th issue of The 
Tartan, Vernon Purnells name was 
misspelled. Purnell is the alumnus who 
donated money to finish the statues outside 
CFA.
Production Meeting
Tomorrow
in the Tartan office
Last meeting... so be there!
Just when you thought you recovered from Carnival 
get ready to party again!
ourud 
CPLL&E a
SPRING FLING T& v
THURSDAY APRIL 23
9pm: AIR BAND CONTEST Anderson Dining Hall Anyone can enter call 365-1280 for information! 
12 midnight: Let's do the Time Warp again... THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW Shown outside, so bring your toast! 
$1.00 Admission 
FRIDAY APRIL 24 
9pm: BONFIRE Music and book burning!!
SATURDAY APRIL 25
12pm 'til 5pm: FLING ON THE QUAD Live bands (jazz, reggae, & more), food, & fun!
SliJiDAY APRIL 26
1 pm 'til 5pm: BEACH PARTY Good music & fun in the sun! BYOB (bring your own blanket)!

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 1987The TartanPage 3
Senate Adopts 2/3 Voting
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter 
An amendment to the Student Constitution 
was passed at the Student Senate meeting 
last week. Allen Greenberg, Chairman of 
the Rules Committee, proposed an 
amendment which would require a two-thirds 
vote of Senate to downgrade the status or 
funding of a recognized club. It was implied 
that this motion was a result of the freezing 
of the Student Union's funds on March 3. 
Tamal Mukherjee, Chairman of Funding and 
Recognition, argued that since it only 
requires a majority vote to give the club 
funding there is a conflict since it would take 
more to revoke the funding. Greenberg 
explained that the purpose was to prevent 
such actions that would stop all funding to a
club but he accepted a friendly amendment 
proposed by Mukherjee that would change 
the amendment to read that a two-thirds vote 
of all senators, not just those present, be 
required.
Senator John Maxwell proposed to table 
the amendment because as it stands the 
Chairman of Funding and Recognition has 
the sole right to freeze a group's funding if 
he/she chooses and this conflicts with the 
two-thirds requirement. The proposal failed.
Greenberg accepted a friendly amendment 
by Senator Norman Larson changing the 
amendment to what it had originally read 
before Mukheijee's amendment was accepted. 
The amendment failed the two-thirds vote 
needed for an amendment 10 to 5 with two 
abstentions.
Lecturer Calls SDI Infeasible
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Coming to Carnegie Mellon to give a 
lecture in opposition to the Strategic 
Defense Initiative is like Daniel walking 
into the proverbial lion's den. At least, that's 
the analogy that Robert Herman used to 
open his lecture in Wean Hall 7500 last 
Tuesday. Herman is a representative of the 
Union of Concerned Scientists, a nonprofit 
organization of scientists and others 
concerned about the impact of advanced 
technology on society.
Hermans analogy referred to the funding 
that the university receives from the SDI 
budget. According to Dr. Lincoln 
Wolfenstein, a professor in the physics 
department, there is only one contract at 
Carnegie Mellon that is known to be funded 
by the SDI budget. This contract funds a 
research project in the electrical engineering 
department, and has something to do with 
optical processing for computers, says 
Wolfenstein. He adds that, clearly, this 
research would have been done anyway, but 
the research is now directed towards the Star 
Wars project.
Whether or not funding for the Software 
Engineering Institute comes directly from 
the Strategic Defense Initiative budget is not 
apparent. Computing problems will 
certainly be among the most formidable in 
any attempt to deploy a ballistic missile 
defense system, so it is clear that the SEI is 
something that will be quite useful for SDI, 
but whether it has any financial coupling to 
the project nobody really knows, says 
Wolfenstein.
In a lecture entitled SDI: The Emperor's
Newest Clothing, Robert Herman argued 
that not only is a total "astroshield" defense 
from Star Wars impossible, but any 
deployment of space-based ballistic missile 
defense will contradict the 1972 AntiBallistic Missile (SALT I) Treaty and would 
drain too much money away from other 
research programs. Even SDI program 
managers admit, a perfect astrodome shield is 
not feasible, said Herman. Therefore, 
deploying Star Wars would not protect the 
population in the event of a nucelar 
exchange. To head off any argument that 
SDI is acceptable under the SALT I Treaty. 
Herman added that Article 5 of the ABM 
Treaty prohibits the development, testing 
and deployment of ABM systems or 
components that are space-based, sea-based, 
air-based or mobile land-based. There is 
little agreement about what the deployment 
oi btar Wars woulil actually cost, but UCS 
adds its estimate to the heap by suggesting 
that The cost of developing and deploying 
an efffective Star Wars-type system will 
reach at least $770 billion.
Herman based his lecture on a recently 
published Union of Concerned Scientists 
paper called Star Wars: Myth & Reality. 
The paper outlines several commonly-held 
beliefs about SDI that are considered to be 
myths by the UCS. Among these beliefs 
are the notions that SDI will be able to 
protect American cities from nuclear attack, 
that SDI is strictly a defensive system, that 
the Soviet Union is ahead of us in the Star 
Wars race, that SDI is affordable and that 
SDI is in keeping with the ABM treaty, 
among others.
Video Yearbook Idea 
Draws Varied Response
By D. C. TAVERAS
Tartan Staffwriter
A video supplement to the yearbook is 
one of the latest ideas to come from the 
Office of Student Affairs. The video, as 
Assistant Dean Edward Lilly puts it, 
would be "a collage of undergraduate 
events, a photo-essay of campus life... 
something tangible and lively that you 
can show to people." Lois Cox, Assistant 
Dean of Student Affairs, stresses that the 
"video yearbook" is still in the talking 
stage and that Student Affairs is looking 
for students' response.
Responses are varied. According to 
Thistle Yearbook Co-editor Natalie 
Capone, the video supplement is a 
"trendy idea, and I can't see people 
wanting to sit and watch it more than 
once. I don't see why they [Student 
Affairs] seem to think that a supplement 
is necessary, the quality of the Thistle has 
definitely improved and we outsold the 
projected number of books and had to re
order."
Most students interviewed seemed to 
find problems with the idea. Jennifer 
Toth, a junior in Fine Arts said, "A
yearbook is supposed to be forever, a 
video can break down, get lost... its just 
not the same. Besides, not every-one has 
a VCR." Another reaction from students 
suggests that all campus life cannot fit 
into a 30-45 minute video. Other, more 
financially minded students asked the 
question: where would funding come 
from? Dean Lilly suggested a possible 
grant from the university for the initial 
cost of some equipment, and having an 
on-going student organization with 
activities fee funding doing the filming 
and reporting.
As of yet, it is not clear who will 
participate in the production of the video. 
Dean Lilly mentioned that the Carnegie 
Mellon Audio Visual department may be 
involved as well as an "expert in the field 
to tune is into what's possible."
What are your feelings about a video 
supplement to the yearbook? The Tartan 
is interested in what you think. Send 
your comments to The Tartan, rm. 50, 
Skibo. Dependent on the nwn&er of 
responses we receive, we will publish a 
follow-up in the final issue on April 28.
Gallery and CMU Working 
Out Differences
continued from page 1
was not a Department of CMU. She later 
clarified this, agreeing that by sending 
memos to faculty members she was leaving 
the responsibility of informing the students 
up to them. One student asked her why, if 
she anticipated the problem as she claimed, 
didnt she inform them sooner, to which she 
responded I didn't think it would come to 
this.
Questions concerning the financial and 
business aspects of the Gallery were 
generally unanswered or deferred until 
Tuesday's meeting. These included raising 
the raising the membership fee, how Midani 
is a budgetary link, and why the students 
can'^talk to the Board.
With regard to alcohol, King explained that 
the bar could not be moved because they 
wouldn't be able to get insurance, nor could 
it be eliminated, because that will never 
hold. She did, however, promise to take the
suggestions back to the Board.
Another suggestion offered was holding pre
openings for OcuwyAcOv which King claimed 
wouldn't be possible because of the artists' 
schedules.
Students present at the opening Saturday 
said things went very smoothly, because 
they were being especially careful. One 
remarked that traffic through the Gallery 
moved more smoothly than it ever had 
before, and that people were watching 
themselves and their actions more. King 
agreed, saying she the opening was great 
and that the students really came through in 
this. She feels that Saturdays opening will 
have an effect on the Board's decision this 
summer.
This afternoon at 4:30 a discussion about 
possible alternative actions will be held in 
the Loge, 4th floor, CFA. All interested 
students and faculty are urged to attend.
Minutes of the Student Senate April 7, 1987
Meeting called to order 7:05pm 
Present: Bendre, Christina, Flynn, 
Goldstein, Greenberg, Kombrek, Larson, 
D. Levy, Lewis, Liu, Martin, Maxwell, 
Mukherjee, Rapoport, Robitshek, Sharpe, 
Shastri, Sherlock, Shipley, Stachura, 
Staresinic, Urbanski, West.
Absent: Bostin(exc.), Clark(exc.),
Friedland(exc.), Hausman(exc.), E. 
Levy(exc.),
Ex-officio Members: Dean Cox, Chu, 
DeLeon, Denburg.
Absent: Dean Walters.
Audience Participation: None.
President: Jim Denburg: No report.
SDC: Leanne Chu: Those who have
any ideas concerning new dorm that is to be 
built should let committee know.
IFC: Fred DeLeon: Fraternities will
have a two week dry Rush in the Fall. 
Sorority Rush will start August 30th. IFC 
Spring Picnic is April 25th.
Parking Committee: Shep Bostin:
No repot
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: Booth
construction after meeting.
Funding & Recognition: Tamal
Mukherjee: Motion to discuss Budgets
for Organizations during Fall 1987-88 
school year. Motion passed. Budgets were 
discussed individually - amended and then 
approved by Senate.
-AB Concerts- The problem this year was 
not funding but finding popular bands that 
were willing to play at colleges.
Senator Greenberg- I move that we 
amend the removal of $600 allotted to 
Activities Fair for refreshments. Amendment 
fails.
-Carnegie Melting Pot- Motion to 
change office supplies from $30 to $65 and 
postage from $22 to $60. Motion passes. 
-Computer Club- Motion to change dues 
from $1000 to $1500. Motion fails.
-Spirit- Move to allocate $300 for the 
renting of a van for buggy during Carnival 
next year under Technical Supplies. 
Motion passes.
Senator Stachura- Motion to raise dues 
of Spirit buggy participants to that 
comparable to CIA in order to aid their 
budget Motion fails.
-Student Senate- Motion to reduce Food 
and Travel by $500. Motion fails.
-Student Union- Motion to add $70 to 
Equipment Expenditure. Motion passes. 
Motion that we remove SU of 1st Rider. 
Motion fails.
Senator Larson- Motion to decrease SU 
Advertising to $550 due to the fact that they 
do not have an office in which to work. 
Motion fails.
Motion to raise Budget - 1987-88 from 
Committee of the whole. Motion passed. 
Motion to accept budget as corrected. 
Motion passed.
Motion to allocate $400 to AISEC and 
special allocation of $135 for International 
Day.
Senator Stachura- Friendly Amendment 
that the profit made be put towards their 
loan. Motion passes.
Motion to allocate $150 to Committee of 
Greek and Non-Greek Involvement to aid in 
publication of a Greek Newsletter to be 
distributed to students. Motion passed. 
Public Relations: Nadine Flynn:
Posters concerning petition deadline will be
put up around campus and in the Tartan this 
week. Sweatshirts will be available next 
week.
Rules: Allen Greenburg:
Constitutional Amendments - Bylaws: 
Election procedure. Tabled.
Old Business: Motion to remove 5B1 
from table. Motion passed.
Friendly Amendment that "two-thirds of 
Senate Body must be present to pass". 
Motion fails.
New Business: Motion to accept
students appearing cm list as members of 
Election Board. Motion passed.
Points of Discussion: Senator Larson: 
With elections coming up I have been 
looking into the resposibilities of Senator s. 
It takes time and committment If youre not 
willing to put in the effort you should resign 
so that others who want to can.
Dean Cox- I would like to thank Funding 
and Recognition Committee for doing an 
excellent jobwith the Budget. 
Announcements: Volunteers are needed 
to work on booth.
Meeting Ajoumed 10:15pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Taking Carnival Too Seriously
The truth is that this school may be taking Carnival 
too seriously. Several events of the past weekend 
point to this sad conclusion. Five buggy teams excluded from competition, a drunken fraternity 
brother wreaking havoc at the closing ceremonies, 
and lots of students sleeping through carnival instead
of enjoying it. .Buggy and Carnival provide an opportunity tor us 
students to blow off steam and, for a weekend, 
devote ourselves to something besides our 
schoolwork. The spirit of Carnival should be one of competition for the various trophies, but friendly 
competition, not the heated rivalries that breed bad 
feelings like the those displayed by some of the
participants. .The disqualification of five buggy teams is a perfect 
illustration of how the competetive aspects of 
Carnival can be blown way out of proportion. The 
teams were disqualified because they had 
procrastinated. President Cyert could have secured a 
parade permit so that the teams who did not complete 
their pass testing could finish it at the beginning of 
last week, but the other buggy chairmen decided that they didn't deserve this special privilege since they 
had waited until the last minute. This decision on the part of the chairmen docs not reflect an attitude of fun and friendliness, but one of vindictiveness. 
Unfortunately, some people put a desire to win above 
a desire to have fun. This attitude is not limited to the 
buggy races. It permeates the booth competition as 
well.Carnival is one time each year when Carnegie 
Mellon students could put haying fun in front of 
doing their absolute best or being the absolute best. 
Instead, they sacrifice weeks of sleep to meet the same high standards in Carnival activities that they strive for in their academic lives. That's not a good 
time  its a damn shame.
Save Thistle: Prevent the Demise of Another Tradition
With the demise of the logo behind us, and the 
possible demolition of Tech House still looming in 
front of us, there's now another potential chapter in 
The Book of Forgotten Carnegie Mellon Traditions. 
The Thistle Yearbook is on the rocks. Natalie Capone 
and Sara Anderson have paid their dues and 
sacrificed their QPA's long enough. It's time for new 
editors. But once Capone and Anderson finish this 
year's book, there's no one waiting in the wings to take over for next year.
And talk about kicking a tradition when it's down, 
Dean Braden Walter is pushing for a video yearbook 
next year. This project would put the last nail in the proverbial coffin of The Thistle. What would a 
university be without a yearbook? It would be like a 
college without classes and students or football teams 
and fraternities. Several courses of action should be 
taken to preserve the yearbook organization.
The cost of a yearbook should be included in the 
commencement fee for every senior. Many other 
universities give their seniors a yearbook upon 
graduation. Adopting this practice would be a fine 
gesture to graduates as well as a shot in the arm for 
The Thistle.
In addition, if it comes to a choice between paying 
Thistle editors to induce students to fill this service 
position, and simply letting the book go under, 
Thistle editors should certainly be paid. Yearbook 
editors presumably assume their positions because 
they enjoy it, but in the process, they perform a 
valuable function to the University community. 
Therefore, if it takes a salary to keep the organization 
going, then a salary should be allotted.
Finally, if there is no editor for the traditional 
yearbook, then undertaking a project like a video 
yearbook, which will be both expensive to produce 
and high-prices, would be foolhardy. Let's work to 
maintain the few traditions we have left as a 
university before launching into more new-fangled 
projects of dubious worth to students.
Letters:History Prof Gets Booted Because of Publish or Perish Attitude
Editor:
As a student of this university, I 
would like to stand up and voice 
my disapproval of the 
administrations treatment of one 
of my professors, Assistant 
Professor of History, Anne Rose. 
In denying her promotion and 
tenure because of the quality of her 
research during her past 
pregnancies the school has 
blatantly disregarded the moral 
constraints that should be put upon 
our administrations material 
impulse. Just how powerful should 
the publish or perish policy be? 
Must it have no exceptions? Or no 
system of checks and balances?
Of course Mrs. Rose has no 
obligation to produce quality 
research for the university. But 
does this mean that we should 
disregard her skills as a teacher or 
her recent obligations as a pregnant 
mother ? The time consumed in 
that part of a womans life when 
she first has children is an amount 
of time that has ne .er before in her 
life and will never again in her life 
be precedented. For the University 
to regard the research produced in 
such a time period as indicative of 
future research is to make quite an 
unjust and blind claim. To base 
such an important life-changing 
decision on only the quality of 
research in such a temporary time 
period is about as inhumane as an 
institution can be. Mrs. Rose has 
won several honors in her career: 
she was previously awarded several 
fellowships, has been elected to the 
executive board of a national 
professional association, and won a 
prize for her first book.
Its well-known that CMU has 
great ability in keeping its budget 
out of the red. But what ever 
happened to our Universitys
values of virtue and integrity? Are 
they to be forgotten in an absolute 
doctrine of materialism, a doctrine 
which regards everything in terms 
of black and red, shows no mercy , 
and ignores matters of human 
welfare?
Martin Luther King, Jr. once said 
during the civil rights movement 
in 1963, that it is the white 
moderate, who is more devoted to 
order than to justice...who prefersAssessment Panel Explained, Defined
a negative peace which the absence 
of tension to positive peace which 
is the presence of justice. I think 
our administration is too 
comfortable with its order, the 
black and red policy of publish or 
perish. Hopefully, someday, 
theyll have the foresight to 
consider such a life-changing 
decision as a matter of justice.
Chris Young
Editor:
What is the Assessment Panel?!
If you read last weeks Tartan 
article you were led to believe that 
this panel decides which buildings 
on campus will be renovated. You 
were led astray. This panel has 
nothing to do with renovating 
buildings. In fact, I informed the 
writer of this article that this was 
not so the last time he printed this 
misinformation. The Assessment 
Panel is merely the name given to 
the jury for the new University 
Center Competition.
The Student Senate became 
involved with this panel at the end 
of last semester when Senator 
Celeste Clark informed me that 
there were to be no students on 
this panel. Why no students you 
may ask? Because the competition 
advisor felt that students interests 
were best represented by Bill 
Elliot, VP Enrollment. How a non
student can represent students 
better than a student is beyond me, 
but this was the response we got. 
The Campus Affairs Committee, 
which I chair (contrary to the 
Tartan article which names me as 
Academic Affairs chairman) 
immediately set out to develop a
proposal to the administration to 
allow a student onto the 
Assessment Panel. After many 
meetings with Pat Keating, 
Director of University Planning, 
an agreeable solution was worked 
out. An opening would be made on 
the panel for one student. Senate 
would nominate four students who 
would then be interviewed and 
following this one would be 
chosen. The Tartan correctly named 
these students as Christopher 
Haupt, Celeste Clark, Gregor 
Berkowitz, and myself, although 
the article incorrectly names 
Gregor as a third year Architecture 
student.
Although most of us who are 
current students will not be around 
when the new Skibo is 
completed, this project is 
significant in that it is a major 
step in the direction of improving 
the quality of life here at CMU. 
It is disappointing that the Tartan 
article on this matter served to 
confuse students rather than 
inform and I hope that in the 
future, the Tartan will take care in 
getting its facts straight.
Glenn Kornbrek 
Chairman, Campus Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 1987The TartanPage 5
(Tax) Money is the Root of All Evil
by TOM ISENBERG
They're due tomorrow. The I.R.S. says 
that compliance is voluntary. See what 
happens if you read the Constitution (before 
the infamous Income Tax ammendment of 
1916) and decide to keep what's yours. The 
truth about compliance becomes clear: 
taxation is extortion.
This sounds like a crackpot idea, one held 
by moonshining hillbillies and rich old farts, 
right? Somehow we must provide for civic 
functions, right? Yet the tax rebellion 
behind the Declaration of Independence and 
the Constitution (and the essentially 
libertarian revolutions in philosophy which 
preceded them) maintained that the State has 
few legitimate functions, and that those are 
restricted to protecting life, liberty, and 
property from individual and State 
aggression. Any other functions violate 
human rights at some level and therefore, it 
was argued, are immoral.
Yet the vast majority of today's taxsupported laws and programs violate those 
very concepts of self-ownership, the right to 
private property, and even such rights as 
freedom of speech and freedom of education. 
You will be put in jail (or fined) if you 
attempt to educate your children without 
State approval, if you choose to ingest
certain products (such as Interferon or 
possible AIDS cures) without State 
approval, if you buy certain services without 
State approval (such as microchips from the 
Japanese or rides from "unlicensed" taxis), if 
you try to start a business (such as a radio or 
TV station) without State approval, etc. 
These victimless "crimes" are an 
abomination of the concepts of justice and 
self-ownership and are by no means restricted 
to the regrettable (but still legitimate) use of 
narcotics, alcohol, prostitutes, and 
gambling. Who pays bureaucrats to aggress 
against peaceful activities? Taxpayers do.
Granted that there are legitimate govern
ment functions which the free market cannot 
handle (courts, jails, and public defense), is 
there any way that they can be provided 
without forcing the citizenry to work four 
months a year to pay for the salaries and the 
goodies bureaucrats like to dangle in front of 
voting blocs?
Yes. By curbing the immoral, irrational, 
and often economically disastrous powers of 
State bureaucrats; by letting private 
individuals provide desired services legally, 
efficiently, and cheaply; by privatizing the 
vast apparatuses government has 
monopolized in the last century (roads, 
phone and utility lines, etc.); by letting
individuals provide services on a free market 
regulated only by protection of the sanctity 
of self-ownership and its corollary, private 
property.
Everywhere there is a major problem in our 
society, it can be traced to State interference 
in a peaceful human activity. Public 
schools are an abomination. Yet parents 
who dare oppose the political savvy of the 
NEA and try to educate their children as they 
see fit are thrown in jail. The pollution of 
the air and streams has reached crisis 
dimensions. Yet anyone who has the 
audacity to sue a corporation or State utility 
on the grounds that the air or stream in her 
backyard is her property (as recognized up 
until the early 20th century) and not 
somehow "publicly" owned, is laughed out 
of court. The crime and misery which 
results from expensive drug addiction would 
be alleviated and dealt with more effectively 
if the peaceful manufacture and use of 
narcotics could operate on the free market. 
And those police and public officials which 
have not yet been bribed into total 
corruption (as many are in every era of 
Prohibition) can concentrate on the real 
criminals: those who violate the human 
rights and property of others.
It is hair-raising to think of Big Brother as
a criminal, though. He provides us with 
(whether we want them or not) rights as 
He defines them: free education, free oldage insurance, and corporate and social 
welfare in all its myriad forms. The much 
publicized financial bankruptcy of these 
collectivist frauds are nothing compared to 
their moral bankruptcy: we must each ask at 
whose expense we are benefitting. Someone 
is being threatened with jail on April 15th 
so that others (like myself, before I really 
began to think about it) can get Guaranteed 
Student Loans, for example. Add to this 
public banquet the Contras, Chrysler and the 
many other corporate and social-welfare 
recipients, and of course the bureaucrats who 
gleefully administer this socially-minded 
largesse. The dollars surrendered to this 
extortion should be spent by their rightful 
owners and could really solve social 
problems: more business means more 
production means more jobs means more 
business means more charity, etc.
Taxation is an act of aggression, and 
should be dismantled along with those 
programs and regulations that feed on it 
for their own power to stunt the productive 
activity of freedom-loving individuals.
Tom Jsexberg is a graduate student in the 
Masters of Professional Writing program.
Conservative Corner: AIDS Virus Threatens Us All
By AARON SOLOMON AND 
THOMAS HEIM
It only happens to them, right? For the last 
several years, since the discovery of AIDS in 
the United States, only I.V. drug users and 
homosexuals were dying. Now AIDS poses 
a threat to all of us  heterosexual men and 
women alike. The latest computer studies of 
this retrovirus demonstrate the severity and 
broad impact that AIDS will have. We think 
that in light of these studies, our student 
activity fee funding of The Gay and LesbianLetters Cont.:
Alliance condones immortality, the same 
immortality that has led to the AIDS 
pandemic.
One of the most complete studies 
undertaken on AIDS was completed by three 
scientists in Wiesbaden, West Germany. 
Ralf Schauerhammer, Jonathon Tennebaum 
and Bemd Schultz disclosed one of the first 
epidemiological computer models designed 
to study a slow-acting retrovirus; the AIDS 
associated HIV virus is just such a virus. It 
finds that in five years, more people will be
The Facts About Tech House
Editor:
A referendum on the upcoming Student 
Senate ballot addresses the possible saving 
of Tech House on campus. We feel that 
students should have as much information as 
possible before voting. The students 
advocating the preservation of Tech House 
have already publicly expressed their views. 
Below we have summarized the history of 
Tech House and outlined some significant 
facts which have not been presented.
Tech House was built in 1895, by Harry 
C. Wright, on property belonging to Jenette 
B. Wright In 1909, Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College acquired the right to use 
the house as a practical laboratory for their 
household arts program, and then purchased 
the house in 1922. The purpose of this 
laboratory was to give students of the 
household arts program an environment to 
practice their skills. During the last visit of 
Andrew Carnegie in October of 1914, he 
attended a luncheon at Tech House, put on 
by the Department of Household Economics. 
Many other visitors, students, and professors 
have been entertained at this house between 
1909 and 1973. 1973 was the last year in 
which Tech House was used as a home ec. 
lab.
Although Tech House dates from the late 
Victorian period, it is a pattern book house 
with no architectural significance. The 
interior detailing is also modest for the 
period.
The cost to renovate Tech House is 
estimated at $100,000 to $250,000. This 
includes the required upgrade of heating, 
plumbing, and electrical systems, as well as 
structural repairs. If Tech House remains in 
its present location, the estimated additional
cost to the new dorm is $50,000.
The funds to renovate Tech House would 
probably come from money already allocated 
to improve existing dormitories, thus 
possibly postponing such improvements.
Dana L. Rinehart 
Eric L. WittleVAfly8Ofc1 s1gS,8fO1
infected in the general population than in 
what have been designated high risk 
groups (namely, homosexuals and I.V. drug 
users). The high risk groups which the study 
designates as the fast track account for the 
tremendous expansion of the AIDS virus 
among the general population. Latest 
statistics show that a shocking 99 out of 
100 people who carry AIDS do not know 
that they do. Of the AIDS-infected, over 
75% and probably near 100% will one day 
come down with incurable symptoms. With 
these symptoms, they will die less than 
seven years from contracting the disease. 
Furthermore, by the year 2014, more than 
80% of the U.S. population is either 
infected, sick or dead.
New evidence shows possibilities that 
AIDS can be spread by methods other than 
exchange of body fluids. The AIDS virus is 
a retrovirus, a virus group that has been 
associated with diseases in monkeys, cats, 
cattle and other animals. A retrovirus is 
spread to these animals in several ways: 
(l)From a mother to her offspring during
pregnancy or feeding (2)Salivary contact
(3)Aerosol transmissions of infected 
respiratory secretions (coughs and sneezes)
(4)Transmission of blood or serum by 
bloodsucking insects. In Zaire and the 
Central African Republic the AIDS virus has 
been found in bloodsucking insects sucii as 
tse-tse flies, mosquitoes and bedbugs (South 
Africa).
The stench of immorality many seem to 
have associated in their minds with AIDS 
victims was undoubtedly brought about by 
the homosexual connection to the disease. 
Indeed, homophobia is not a completely 
irrational thing in these recent AIDS years. 
It is possible that we are underestimating the 
danger AIDS carriers pose to the public. As 
a statement of concern for the health and 
future of humanity, we feel that sexual 
promiscuity which is contributing to the 
AIDS pandemic should be denounced by the 
University. To put it simply: Stop funding 
GALA, an organization that openly 
promotes perverse sexual behavior.
Editor:
On the first page of The Tartan issue of 
April 7, there was an article stating that the 
University Dining Service and Physical 
Plant employees union (SEIU Local 29) had 
rejected the University's latest contract offer. 
CMU offered a 2% increase in salary in the 
first year, and a 2.5% increase in each of the 
following three years. In the same issue, we 
learned on page nine that the tuition for the 
1988-89 school year would tentatively be 
raised to $12,000, an increase of 9.25% over 
the previous yuear. One of the rationales for 
the large increase was the possibility that the 
inflation rate, currently at 4%, could rise to 
as mcuh as 8% by 1988-89.
These two articles show what the 
University's attitutde towards its workers is. 
CMU wnats to set tuition rates for a worst 
case scenario of high inflation in the future, 
while at the same time offering its 
employees only a paltry increase in wages. 
The union was right to have rejected a 
contract which would probably result in a 
drastic decrease in its members' earning 
power. I feel that, at the very least, the 
worker's salary increase should keep up with 
inflation.
Robert Tozian 
Sophomore, Mech E
The Tartan
Albrecht T. Powell
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerDave LevyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Don GambleGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawRuss SeligmanLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
Pam HornMary MurphyOlve Peersen
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerContributing Editor
John FriedmannJack Poller
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Melon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper, published each 
Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters by students 
at no cost to members of the university community. It is 
printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or 
staff. Letters to the Editor are opinions of indMdual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community.
A letter intended tor publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number tor 
verification. Names win be withheld upon roquet. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter 
or ooiumn. Copyright 1967 by The Tartan The edtorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from pubBcalion any 
copy it deems unfit tor publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan /Box 17 / Carnegie Meion
University / Pittsburgh. PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee A rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Attention: Student Organizations
Please fill out the information below so that you can receive information about next Falls Activities Fair which will take place on Friday, August 28,1987.
I2-CdMUCpMId 44444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
9V77B2 LIdpCLp 44444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
9V77B2 CTT2B99 444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
9V77B2 RsIdB 44444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
IEEMLB29 H.rPWH.rr
I2-CdMUCpMId 44444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
R2B9MTBdp 4444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
xMLBWR2B9MTBdp 4444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
9BL2BpC2F 4444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
p2BC9V2B2 444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444
Please turn this into the Office of Student Activities / Skibo Information Desk by Friday, April 24.
DATE: APRIL 17
TIME: 4:30-6:00 pm
PLACE:
WHERRETT ROOM
MTV is looking for a few good VJ's. And the auditions will 
be right here on campus! MTV's talent scouts are visiting 
selected schools to shoot screen tests. It's the chance of a 
lifetime! You can audition if...
 You're a college student enrolled on this campus
 You know your rock 'n' roll
 You can ad-lib and interview in front of a camera
 You've got MTV, rock 'n' roll charisma
(Experience in Shakespearian acting is not necessary.)

---------------------------------------------------

Presidential Candidates Express Their Views
John Blanck
My name is John Blanck. The biggest 
reason I'm running for President is to see 
that your activities fee is spent responsibly. 
The purpose of the activities fee is to allow 
the student body to enjoy things that 
wouldn't be possible without a great deal of 
money. Currently, I feel certain smaller 
organizations that don't benefit the campus 
as a whole are allocated too much of the 
activities fee. Another one of my goals deals 
with tenure of professors. The University 
places a high emphasis on research being a 
criteria for tenure. I feel more emphasis 
should be placed on one's ability to teach.
following.
Qualifications:
Motivation and commitment
Open-mindedness s
Aggressiveness
Experienced leadership
Organization
Plans:
Fun, fun, fun foremost 
Intelligent ideas to build school spirit 
considering students as adults 
Holding the administration to improve the 
quality of life
New improved enthusiasm committee 
Lobbying for University Center 
Less conservatism
Focus on key issues rather than petty 
details
Involving students in decision-making and 
informing them of outcomes and 
developments
No-nonsense management of your activities fee
Strife, demonstrations and chaos 
excitement guaranteed 
Thanks for your support.
stores. I also succeeded at increasing the 
bookstore student discounts from 5% to 
10%. The Senate should work to improve 
student life, not to punish students, as in the 
case of suspending the funds of the Student 
Union. I will continue to fight for 
divestment and student rights and will fight 
against tuition hikes and repressive 
university policies such as alcohol 
restrictions. The University handbook, so 
often used by the Senate as an excuse for 
inaction, can be changed if the Senate 
chooses.
pure
Vidal Graupera, CIT
You know of course this means war! 
A vote for me will be a vote forthe
Allen Greenberg, H&SS
Unlike past presidents, I do not tacitly 
consent to administration policy that does 
not benefit students. When the 
administration chose to ignore the issue, I 
worked for and won contraceptives in student
John Rentzepis
When I came to CMU three years ago, I 
had expectations that have not, 
unfortunately, been met to this day. I found 
that academics at CMU were excellent, but 
they seemed to be at the cost of becoming a 
well-rounded individual; what I believe is the 
true point of college. Students here work 
very hard and, sadly enough, they dont get 
to enjoy the finer parts of the University and 
community. I have always wanted to change 
this, but I realize that I may not win this 
election. So I hope that the president-to-be 
realizes what the students really care about.
Andrew Robitshek, CIT
Lets make the University a better place. 
After talking with many students, I have 
compiled a list of problems that need to be 
fixed. Some actions I plan to take include: 
Physical improvements in lecture halls 
and classrooms
Larger discounts in the bookstore and 
artstore
Improved relations and increased 
interactions between students and faculty 
Use of Faculty Course Evaluations in 
tenure decisions 
It takes a strong, dedicated leader to bring 
these changes about. I have shown such 
leadership in getting a 10% discount on text 
books at the bookstore and keeping the 
senior banquet from being cancelled next 
year.
Shep Bostin
Unibed Wy MINI
Health-O-Rama
UU
Cosponsored by 
Carnegie Care Unit
THURSDAY APRIL 16TH
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM 
SKIBO-WHERRETT ROOM
Unibed
Wy
Tests for: FREF FREED LIVYYTIVO V:G (heart)O VIYIEN.
DIAFVTVYO ANVMIAO AND TIINARYYIY
$100 WORTH OF TESTING FREE!
FTNDVD FY YTTDVNT A:TIVITIVY FVV
STUDENTS, ALUMNI, FACULTY, 
and STAFF WELCOME
TAKV ANY EI ARR EF THV AFEVV TVYTY 
YLENYEIVD FY THV TNITVD WAY HVARTH FETNDATIEN

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate Elections
April 15 and April 16
I stand for 24 hour Health Service, 
funding for political groups, and improving 
library facilities. Id also like the Senate to 
truly become the voice of the student body.
Vote for someone who is already involved 
as a representative of students. Vote for 
someone who has a clear approach to 
campus issues. Vote for Gregor Berkowitz.
Tamal Mukherjee
My three years experience on Senate has 
given my a broad knowledge of the issues 
and the student and administration contacts 
who can keep them on the forefront of the 
agenda.
Greg Staresinic
Senator one year.
On Several University committees.
Working to make Senate more open and 
more accountable to you, the students.
Laurie Gallo
not
Glenn DeTilloManny Theiner
Show your concern. Dont be apathetic. 
Just vote.
Previous Senate Experience: Attended all 
Spring 1986 meetings and voted as 
substitute Senator. Helped create Political 
Speakers Forum.
Activities: WRT, Intramural Sports.
H&SS
Brett Whysel
Im a junior Econ/French major currently 
studying in Paris who has the desire and 
experience to get things done. Last year, as a 
Student Senator I worked on issues such as 
the proposed honor code.

---------------------------------------------------

p"y bn00ScO "nly byyA ,SuAcywDrive-In Award Results
Entertainment
Comics
Classifieds
Events
For the first year since 1983, the drivein-going public of this great country of 
ours was allowed to choose the Drive-In 
Academy Award Winners, and frankly,
Im a little steamed. No Sybil Danning
 my choice for Best Actress, mainly on 
the basis of her ability to strap an AK-47 
Kalashnikov semi-automatic assault rifle 
across the front of a bikini top. No 
Sonny Bono  my choice for Best 
Monster, as giant Caesars salad with a 
bad singing voice in Troll. And no 
Virginia Loridans  the first woman ever 
to take out the advertisements for her 
breasts to try to win Breast Actress. I 
realize a lot of you didnt have a chance to 
see Mountaintop Motel Massacre, but 
lets give the girl some credit for spunk, 
OK?
Nobody showed up to accept their
Hubby Awards, as usual. We had the 
ceremonies on West 33rd Street in New 
York City, two or three blocks from the 
Garden, which was the closest place we 
could find to Times Square, where they were 
havin the world premiere of Prettykill, 
which is what I was doin in New York City 
in the first place. And also, we thought if we 
did it in New York City, somebody would 
show up this year.
Nope.
Anyhow, we had 2,457 people send in 
Drive-In Academy Awards ballots this year. 
We threw out about 200 of those for not 
takin the deal seriously (write-ins for indoor 
bullstuff stars like Paul Newman), and then 
we threw out about 350 for being stupid, and 
then we counted up the rest of em, except for 
the ballot from Gus Simpson of Hobbs,
N.M., which we didnt count cause he owes 
me 30 bucks.
OK, so heres the results.
Best Screenwriting
And the winner is:
The Fly, for the line, I wont be just
Leatherface from Saw 2 wins Best 
Monster hands down
another timorous bore, talking about his 
hair falling out and his lost lymph 
nodes.
The most popular runners-up were: 
Shadow Play: The taste of you is on 
my tongue again, and I will graze till 
morning.
And Cobra: Youre a disease and Im 
the cure.
Congratulations to Canadian maniac 
David Cronenberg, director of The Fly 
and winner of many Drive-In Academy 
continued on page D2
At Forbes...
By CHRIS CORRIGAN
Special to the Tartan
It's a, springtime Tuesday evening and 
you're looking for fun, excitement and visual 
stimulation. Well, why don't you take your 
eyes over to Forbes Gallery and check out 
the new show by Laura Gillen and Page 
Darrow. And if it's fun youre looking for, 
fun is what you'll get if I know these two 
gals. I reccently spoke with the two at 
Page's beach front studio.
Laura will be breaking out some paintings 
that she's left unrevealed until now and the 
whole art community around here is simply 
buzzing with anticipation. Her work is of a 
symbolic nature and its tone is sarcastic 
without being cynical.
Page will also be revealing some of her 
latest paintings in this Forbes Gallery 
bonanza of fun. She told me, as the cool 
ocean mist eased the sun's heat on our faces, 
that she plans to include some of her more 
figurative and landscapey pieces.
The show starts tonight and runs through 
Sunday at the Forbes Gallery. There's going 
to be opening reception Tuesday night.
Scotch n Soda: An Evening of Demented Humor
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Theater/Film Critic 
Scotch'n'Soda, the student drama club, 
presented three one-act plays over Carnival 
weekend, providing audiences with an even
ing of demented humor.
Jay Martel's MacMuffin, directed by John 
Zimmerman, mixed Shakespearean tragedy 
with fast-food culture. Frank Schurter played 
MacMuffin (as in Egg), the conniving, choleseterol-laden prince who poisons Mayor 
McCheese with tainted relish to take over 
McDonaldland and meets his end at the hands 
of the spatula-wielding Big of Mac. Sounds 
silly, but Martel's dialogue was a rapid-fire
:9S8c So Enu03Ay8 
myycO jno3nv 
OSuc"y8A -Sc"f, fA 
c"y nty So c"y 
g8S0ycn8fnch
barrage of puns, wordplay and Elizabethan 
parody. Federico Hattoum showed ingenious 
versatility in playing all of the supporting 
roles: Lady Filet, Big of Mac, Mayor 
McCheese and the Caliban-like Milkshake. 
Life is but a case of heartburn,  quoth 
MacMuffin, ...full of sound and jingles, 
selling nothing. It was a lot of fun.
Things faltered a bit with the second entry, 
Eve of the Trial, written by Samm-Art 
Williams and based on a short story by 
Chekhov. Alex Bushkin (Stephen Carpen
ter), a Russian landowner exiled by the Bol
sheviks finds himelf in a Louisiana boarding 
house. He and his two companions, former 
ladies-of-the evening Lilly and Kitty (Jenn
ifer Nelson and Elle Giavardi), were headed 
for Utah where they could live as man-andwives. But, for unclear reasons, Bushkin is 
detained and scheduled to be tried by the in
famous Hanging Judge, Lester Simmons 
(Keith Giffles). Sort of Faulkner meets Kaf*Dentity Crisis provided some of the funniest moments at Scotch n Sodas weekend performance
ka, southern Gothic in the age of the pro
letariat.
Though engagingly bizarre and inter
mittently funny, the production was a bit 
unpolished and the various accents adopted 
by the cast were strained and often uncon
vincingAnd director Alan Hakimoglu 
wasn't even at opening night; he was at the 
Forbes Gallery Reading helping a student 
writer remove most of his hair. There's 
dedication for you.
The show finished strongly with 
Christopher Durang's Dentity Crisis, a very 
strange and funny one-act directed by Tamar 
Copeland. Jane (Jennifer Nelson again) is 
not suffering so much from an /-dentity 
crisis - she thinks she knows who she is - 
- it's everyone else she's not too sure about. 
Her mother Edith (Michele Osherow) claims 
to have invented cheese. Worse, Edith is
having an affair with her own son Dwayne 
(Carpenter) -- except that Dwayne is not 
always Dwayne. Sometimes he's Edith's 
husband, her senile father, or a suave French 
count.
Seems Jane's trouble with reality started 
when she was eight and went to an 
apocalyptic production of Peter Pan in which 
children in the audience were crushed by a 
live alligator (and replaced by understudies) 
and Tinkerbell died because the audience 
couldn't clap hard enough. Her psychologist 
(Hattoum) tells her everything will be all 
right, but his abrupt departure in order to 
undergo a quick sex-change operation 
naturally undermines her confidence. 
Durang's psychoanalytical satire (we all 
know what the banana means) seems to be 
saying that who you are is defined by the 
world around you -- and, considering the
state of things  what a frightening thought 
that is.
Nelson's performance as the bewildered and 
near-suicidal Jane was on target. As Edith, 
veteran Scotch'n'Soda performer Michele 
Osherow was elegantly maniacal and 
displayed nice comic timing. Carpenter, in 
his multiple role as Robert/Dwayne/Grandfather/the Count, had the unenviable task of 
switching rapidly between parts, and man
aged it ably for the most part. Scotch'n'Soda, 
Zelda (1985) is forgiven.
ScotchnSoda is Carnegie Mellon's student 
drama organizations dedicated to giving non 
drama students an opportunity to participate 
in theatrical productions. SnS will be 
conducting acting and playwriting 
workshops in the fall. Interested students 
should call the S'n'S office at x3522.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanApril 14, 1987
khQiP OyAw fA T8flyWMA bn00ScO
Sybil Dannings AK-47 Prowess is Slighted by the Voters
continued from page D1
Awards in the past. But too bad, Dave, cause 
you did NOT win the category of...
Best Director
And the winner is...
Stephen Herek, director of Critters, the 
movie where porcupine tumbleweeds from 
outer space answer the question, Whats 
eating the American farmer?
Runners-up:
Lamberto Bava, the Eyetalian director of 
Demons, where an entire audience at the 
movie house gets turned into linguine 
noodles by head-chomping Method actors.
And Tobe Hooper, a double threat with 
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre Part 2 and 
Invaders from Mars, which featured the 
great Louise Fletcher frog-eating gross-out 
scene.
Best Fu
And the winner is...
Lee Marvin Eyebrow Fu in Delta Force. 
Was there ever any doubt? Lee, get a trim, 
careful where you point those babies.
Runners-up:
Julie Newmar Driving a Killer Chrysler Fu 
in Streetwalkin.
Muant Green Tomato-Head Fu in 
Invaders from Mars.
Best Monster
And the winner, by greatest landslide of 
any category is...
Bill Johnson, as Leatherface the lovable 
cannibal, in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre 
Part 2. I guess all our hearts were breakin 
when he decided not to eat the female lead.
Runners-up:
The Baboons that wait by the side of the 
road and throw their bodies against your 
windshield till they break and then eat your
face in In the Shadow of Kilimanjaro.
The Critters in Critters.
Best Bad Guy 
And the winner is...
Nick Cassavetes, as the local goonhead 
gang leader in The Wraith and the local 
goonhead gang leader in every other movie 
last year, whose idea of true love is hell kill 
anybody that looks at his girlfriend. 
Runners-up:
James booth, who wrote Pray For Death 
and also played Limehouse, the guy who 
gets his jollies out of pouring gasoline on 
people and sayin Hey, how about a Viking 
funeral?
Ozzy Osbourne, as the TV preacher in 
Trick or Treat, for his critiques of the 
albums Tortures Too Kind and Do It 
Like a Dog.
Best Actress 
And the winner is...
Melissa Leo, as the girl who gets off a 
Greyhound in Streetwalkin, immediately 
falls in love with a pimp in the bus station, . 
dresses up like Erich von Stroheim and tells 
old men to moo like a cow, and gets 
personally offended when her business 
associates make sexist remarks.
Runners-up:
Yeardley Smith, as Connie the whining 
newlywed in Maximum Overdrive, for 
saying Curtis, are you dead? and Oh, 
honey, you're bleeding like a stuck pig! 
Geena Davis, as the girlfriend in The 
Fly, for saying, You look bad, you smell 
bad, and you have these weird hairs growing 
out of your back.
Breast Actress
And the winner in this great year for 
busdines is...
Our reputation stands for quality 
haircare and up to the minute styling . . .all at affordable prices. Our clients know. Just ask one.
TheThe
----------------------------------------------------------O
DESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25.00only $13.00only $8.00
Complete with written guarantee
l
Complete with shampoo and blow styleCut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at .
MUST HAVE COUPON
{ ~SV~$2.00
 on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo q styling 
M Iooy8 B(gf8yO
I 
I
NU
ALLEINT MINTNf CESSAR*
April 30,1987
0CMITorccnmMs.
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
Andree Maranda, the blind girl who likes to 
go on campouts in The Toxic Avenger.
The only performance of 1986 done entirely 
with the female breasts.
Runners-up:
Marta Kober, who goes on a date with an 
entire punk band in School Spirit.
Natalie McCurry, the world famous 1983 
Miss Young International of Australia, who 
spends most of her time in Dead End DriveIn either aardvarking in the backseat or 
havin her hair raked into a bean sprout 
sandwich like Pat Benetar.
Best Good Guy
Its incredible, but the winner for the third 
straight year is...
Arnold the Barbarian, for Raw Deal, 
where he destroys an entire building by 
himself, and where he utters the classic line, 
You shouldnt drink and bake.
Runners-up:
Chuck Norris, who invades Lebanon in 
Delta Force and wanders around the jungle 
grinnin in Firewalker.
Charles Bronson, for hunting down Carrie 
Snodgrass in Murphys Law.
And finally...
Best Flick
And the winner is...
Pray for Death, the best kung fu movie 
made since 1974, the year Bruce Lees head 
blew up, about a Japaheeno ninja who 
moves to Houston to start a little 
neighborhood group, lay some bathroom 
tile, play a little Frisbee, enroll the kids in 
soccer, but first he had to kill the 48 
members of the Houston Mafia.
Runners-up:
The Fly, where Jeff Goldblum gets 
Cream-of-Wheat Cancer Face and practices 
his gymnastics.
And, of course, Demons.
Remember, 87 might be worse. Joe Bob 
says check it out.
Victory Over Communism! Joe Bobs fifthanniversary newletter, Were still the 
Weird, has gone back to press for the third 
time, which is why a thousand sick people 
dont have theirs yet. For your free copy or 
to discuss the meaning of life, write Joe Bob 
Briggs, P.O. Box, Dallas, Texas 75221.
Ask Bruce
Congratulations are in order to Stew 
Levine for getting a perfect score on this 
years Oscar picks contest. He was the 
only one to get a perfect 6-for-6, and 
everybody did as good or better than my 
picks. Nice going.
Further congratulations go to everybody 
who sent in questions, I am stumped. 
However, I stumped everybody with my
last question. Bruce wrote Fire for the 
King, Elvis. Oh, the prizes I promised in 
the past, are now on my desk. So you 
should be hearing from me, if not, give a 
call at x4215. This weeks trivia question 
is... What are the full names of 
the Skipper, the Professor, and 
Mary Ann on GiUigans Island? 
Send answers to: Ask Bruce, Box 17, 
Carnegie Mellon, Pgh Pa 15213. The 
prize is an Evil Dead 2 T-shirt.
Shed light onthe matter
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY  7 -10 p.m
CALCULUS 
(Pro, 1, 11, 111)
PHYSICS
CHEMISTRY
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS 
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING ECONOMICS 
ECONOMICS 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
Sponserd by Counseling and Student Development Center
Division of Student Affair*
PH 126 A
PH 126B 
PH 126C 
PH 125B 
PH 226B 
PH 226C 
WEH5415

---------------------------------------------------

Attention: 
1987 Degree Candidates
Commencement information packets including 5 announcements will be available in your department offices beginning the week of April 20.
Additional announcements are available for sale an The Bookstore for $2.50 for a package of 5.

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BLOOM COUNTYby Berke Breathed
fiiMwmi ? WITH PlG,FULL...
(RalIt in // ^
CpcCowh r // s,Mn, u
BLOOM COUNTYProvided by SDCProvided by SDC
me FUL.mF noose wivesAUXILIARY Have ASKEP IF YOU ALL WOULP FLAY Aenmmo snU.wiv me.
mrs Rim. m Ccnp 
m tue mnCc MnSeCpcmmr 
CpcoTh oSmoTmc)SioSm
\ PIRECTOR FOR/^cifl/L^ LiU.AXLI mm.[ -''JZj&r IHFNEA )\
ViTomJs Je
MANtLOW, to
PLAYLIST., a HMM... HOLP *mONE: U J -
Haifway Ta Aimmoue. Trt nMtgT iEntMd oaMSf owM i pus dTafftf fORTHe M6HF. A
ernmiiY, conversation 
tvrnbp to me sort of wings tvTKosrecwe, sensitive men
TALK APOI/T OVER WARMMaaT fttMd gT Z-.I? am....
TV PINNERS WERE WARMEP
while we stresses of we
ROAP SLOWLY GAVE WHY TO THE 
SHAREP COMFORT OF HALF 
COMRAPERY. D
Y0UNG8LATT. IF YOU POUT STOP PUGGING MB, I'LL HAVE MY LEAP TONGUE- PLAYER PfTE THE HEAP OFF YOUR WIFE.
MR. MLLA5.-I HOAR SOME ROCK PERFORMERS BHETHE news OFF MTS' PO YOU ms... - YA KNOW. . POTHAT SORT Yae TrNEn s jet
UH.. HELLO 7 STARFLeeT CCMMANP COME IN. PLEASE. HeiLO ?
UH.. HOWPY BOY/ SAY,
000P THAT WOULDN'T PC
MORNING ONE O' MM FANCY
OFFICER RAPAR PETECTORS, 
\ WOULP IT. POY7
THIS 7 UH. WHY,NO...ACTUALLY. THIS IS A... EF!... AN OFFICIAL CAPTAIN KIRK SUPSPACE COMMUNICATOR YEAH- THAT'S RIGHT/
MUSTA PROREenRY LXFmFWHEN YEW WAS POtN' WARP 70.
NOANSWER.
xbrgadutn
ksmmreive rt Mecmmne.s.. mpiss-w',
Juuusut w mMpe/ci'
NO r**(UAi ; Ui SPlTTiN', NO MOONING THE WPteNU.NO... UH..
Ul,h i 1 TELL Y K
ptm m
i wantep 10 so overTHE RULES WITH YOU GUYS BEFORE WE GOT T0THEPI6GIG iT THesiiIF wieAF HHH
Keep oam SKEP OWH.e/IXaeRm/.IFcomoL.
esmR'NEXT YEAR.Ui ^nUc/FLIHfNO CONVENTIONS //Ui vFLmeUFIIl[
BOTHER /TELL THE MOOSES THAT bORbO TH6 SNOG MONSTER* 15 HERE/' H
GREAT.AN ENURE GAGGLE OF MOOSe LOPGE LOONS ANP 7H61R WIVES ON THE PREMISES.
THEY INVITEP A 
FFWOFUSUPTO weiR suire AFTeR 
THe panquet.
TWttE-lWEWJIVe/mtN's i 
wmm&K FVt)
PARPON ME.
THIS tSNTWHCRE 
THe PANP PARTY IS, 
IS ITT
ft V
NOW WHATS WIST
CP
MOTEL 6 rates. 13.00/***fills HUM!
MOTEL 6rates-13.00/*^fills miouJ
rmcoMiIEl
-WCOMEtisiuxx* L
wC /A
/-SSLas I
SfeJt
wf-jtfiCOW-rissri,
HNQurr IJr
WHeRE PO we THE 
SET UP OUR 'HIAWATHA 
EQUIPMENT 7 ROOM ~.../ -me dANQuer 
STARTS AT EIGHT.
WHAT'S GOING 
ON IN THERE, SLOP PUTT ?
HAVE OUR PAGS 
SSNT UP TO NO FOOLIN' OUR ROOMS. AROUNP UP 
S THERE TONIGHT.*
j 1 KNOW YOU
ROCK WetRPOS."
.esmR/YOUR
FREDLIVY
HERE/
we INVITEP UP A A FEW OF THE MOOSE 
WIVeS AUXILIARY ... 
MY, THEY'RE Am&s waxPUNCH/
AL.TH01M: 
DTOL:E, 1) 
AIL FU* 
TOMAI 
OUT OF M
HOLP
THAT
THOUGHT..
PILL THe CAT 
IS THROWING 
A PARTY.
HOOSE / UX& I
n //>.&dnfm lJaJL
T^l
e&r t
\ \ -WELCOME- I ZYfr/p
//\ ntm
nEmW HRPG
{Kgn M A.
mm?.' hM
iu
LAPfES. PLEASE 
COLLECT YOUR THINGS. 
HOPGE POPGE, bBT 
OFF THF LAMP 
ANP PUT OUT Jg
me f)To )S m /JP
REFRIGERATOR. ^
AINRIGHT 
EVERYPOPY... 
SETTLE POWN 
PARTY'S v 
OVERf \
THAT 000/fi/U . 6T , 
1HWIM0~

---------------------------------------------------

'HARt-KARl
FORJaaLl
OH, IS 7WT 
ONE OF HIST
PRiVE
WOOGW
WlNDU)
iThCTppcwhwmvou
SINCERE 
WITH THAT 
OFFER? _
CTcm*
The new state of the art remote 
which turns off the TV....permanently!
by Ed BaranoskiOH FOR 
OOPSSAM,
\cT\cTch
THEIZe's NOTHING MO& eisJuhtyIr ZZhJog, J leisuhetly zyk v
Just tJL Lct'i I share 
Arf OF F ice OJITU the: a/JLY 
CS MAJo ojHo Doesn't 
6et All <sf His Meals 
A VEMO/fiJG MACULE/
Just v/ajg /aj the 
,JZE ... OUCH/JNLONE sOrE ,4NY 
C/ZUSTACEAS LATEL Y ?
CAR.EFUL UJtYtf 
MY LUtiC f
oroocb
me oi/FAM/UAR 
WITH WAT 
THEORY ?
Dribble
VBIU5 PSW**?
wiwme^u
WHAT
ARE YOU A MUMPER
WEARING ? TVOA. BILL
\ FLUSHEP THE
3H&T5 WU/N ^SP%X THETVILST 
BACK AROJNP
Bob GlicksteinZoger the Vorton
A PURlOUS JZZsE ENrUErvZoger, zokvoou, m the mm
niMlOUS OF xfPlPOT Wp.E-ECB 
NwguFst Tnr V/l sp/cT NfuiSmD
PtSRATCH... PtNETTE 6ET
6NB ME WAT CL05IN0 IN
ROM NUMBER AT 12 O'CLOCK. 
_ AMIN. \
THE AuEUS ARE DISPATCHED TO 
THFlt SPACESHIP AND, DEFEATED, 
sEJVE EJaZH FOaEVEa-_________
TRO IFtANLF&YyFvvO&Ob 
cp)oSw wMMS wnggni\h
by Berke Breathed Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw Boobtubeby Name

---------------------------------------------------

ROMAN CATHOLIC HOLY WEEK SERVICES
HOLY THURSDAY: 
April 16_____
6:30 PM - HEINZ CHAPEL - The Mass of the Lord's Supper 
Chapel will remain open until 8:30 PM._______
GOOD FRIDAY: 12:00 Noon - CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY - SKIBO BALLROOM
April 17 Stations of the Cross.
12:30 PM - CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY - SKIB0 BALLROOM
The Liturgy of the Passion & Death of the Lord.
1:30 PM - HEINZ CHAPEL - Stations of the Cross.
2:30 PM - HEINZ CHAPEL - The Liturgy of the Passion & Death
of the Lord.
HOLY SATURDAY: 
April 18
9:30 PM - HEINZ CHAPEL - The Easter Vigil,
EASTER SUNDAY: 
April 19
10:30 AM - CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY - Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration Auditorium.
12:00 Noon - HEINZ CHAPEL.
4:00 PM - UNIVERSITY OF PITTSIMIKtH - Graduate School of 
Public Health Auditorium.
Sacrament of Reconciliation: Confessions will be heard one hour before each of the 
liturgies Tn Heinz Chapel. Confessions will not be heard during Hass.____________
THE ORATORY  681-3181
WRCT 88.3 FMpresents...
A series of public affairs
programs on Central
America produced by the
Other Americas Radio.
Saturday, April 18  9:00 pm 
Crosswired: US Media and 
Central America 
featuring Mercedez Lynn 
DTJriarte, journalist and 
media reseacher
Saturday, April 25  9:00 pm 
Saul Landau, Objectivity or 
Complacency: US Media 
and Central America
Every Monday at noon
Voice of the Nation
 'I
Ford Motor
Credit
Company
7CjB Mp rDiv Id FIV29B)Eh -Bp C)) psB TBpCM)9 pITCF Cp
kirc]CtFC;RD
Route 22 Monroeville in front of the mall 
242-9900 856-0600EI2T
GETTING THIS WASNT EASY.
WITH FORD CREDIT GETTING THIS...
FROM TARGET FORD IS.
or Ford will send you a $400 check 
after the purchase or lease. The money 
is yours whether you finance or not.
The amount of your credit depends 
on which of these qualified vehicles 
you choose:
Ford cars: Escort, Escort EXP, 
Tempo, Mustang, Thunderbird, Taurus.
Ford trucks: Aerostar, Bronco II, 
Ranger.
So hurry. If a vehicle is not in dealer 
stock you must order by Junel, 1987, 
and you must take delivery of any 
vehicle by August 31,1987.
At Target Ford, we know get
ting that degree wasn't easy. But when 
it comes to a new car, we can help with 
pre-approved credit from Ford Credit.
If you are working on an advanced 
degree or graduating with a Bachelors 
Degree between October 1,1986 and 
September 30,1987, you may qualify 
for this special college graduate 
purchase program.
If you do, youll receive a $400 cash 
allowance from Ford. Make your best 
deal on any qualifying vehicle and use 
the money toward your down payment,
3 B.R. Shadyside Apt. Large (for 4-5), 
creatively designed, 1 1/2 Mocks from 
heart of Walnut Street. Don't wait for 
leftovers: sign lease now for
September. Summer sublet available. 
$500++. 521-9555.
R8ytAnAc5
And you didn't mean to be?For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call Birthright of Pittsburgh at 621-1988
Summer Housing 
Near Campus
 Furnished Rooms & 
Apartments, Private Bath
 All Utilities Paid
 Maid & Linen Service
 Laundry & Parking 
Only $70.00 weekly 
$230.00 monthly
682-7010
RENT TOO HIGH? 
FURNISHED APTS 
CALL 381-2081
N. Craig SL 
Large 3 Bdrm. Twnhse. 
Large 3 Bdrm. 2nd FI. 
Large 2 Bdrm. 1st FI. 
Large 2 Bdrm. 3rd FI. 
South Oakland 
One Bdrm. Furnished
Summer
$325
$250
$250
Fall
$425
$395
$350
$200 $200 
(utilities extra)
&nrico s
International
WASH
and CUT $10>
or
JUST CUT 
$800
with this coupon 
I have the edge in men s hair styling!
Providing international looks In half styMng tor mon tor the past IS years
119 Meyron Avenue Eakland 
Fetween Forbes and Fifm
682-3738MON.  9:30-2:00 P.M.TUI* - (AT. - 9:30-9:00 P M Walk In or
Expires 4/28/87

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 1987The TartanPage D7
L0nOOfofywO
Jobs/Wanted
RSOfcfSAO SgyA oS8 nOOfOcnAc ,SmY
gucy8 Sgy8ncS8h Part-time, no experience 
necessary, pay-rate variable, work study not 
required. For more info call Karen at 268- 
7674.
C8cfOc  Full-time position  local com
pany  basic paste-up and camera work. Call 
Ed 381-2918.
Lflf, )ft"c Igy8nNO looking for a few 
good voices. HIRING IMMEDIATELY FOR 
TELEMARKETING. Must have a pleasant
voice, good phone etiquette, be a listener and 
a super sales person! Pay: commission & dai
ly bonuses/evening hours  maybe daytime. 
Call Sunday-Thursday, 1-7 pm, 854-1952.
-8yyA xn00y1 Tn1,nmgv located in Pitts
burghs North Hills, has excellent summer
positions available for group counselors and 
specialists in areas of Arts &. Crafts, Nature/Campcraft, and Archery and Tennis. Ap
plicants should be enthusiastic and enjoy 
working with children. Background in Music, 
Sports, swimming instruction would be bene
ficial. Positions also available in the kitchen 
and maintenance area. Call 487-CAMP any
time or 368-3568 after 4:00 pm.
KnAcywX FSuc" -8Sug CwlfOS8 for part 
time, flexible hours, prior experience work
ing with youth. As participant or advisor. 
Excellent organizational, planning and com
munication skills. Call 279-7600. Send re
sume to Temple Emanuel, 1250 Bower Hill 
Rd., Pgh., PA 15243.
LSuAOy0S8O dyywywX New Hampshire
boys camp. 60th season. June 20-August 20. 
Tennis, swimming, water-skiing, archery, 
crafts, trip crafts, coaches. Call Chuck Illig, 
412-337-6837 from 5-9 pm.
Housing
B(,y00yAc 9ummy8 2yAcn0O  Furnished 
rooms near campus by the week or month. 
Featuring maid and linen service, utilities 
paid, private bath, parking and low rent. Call 
today 682-7010.
2SSmmncyJO' OSut"c  2 to share 3- 
bedroom apartment. $ 130/month +util. 
Shady side. Call George or Steve, 682-2015.
Sq. sf00 G 0n8ty 2 & 3 2 for rent. 
Lg., w/w, laundry. Wilkins Ave., 5-min. walk 
to CMU. Sept. 1, $540-$685. 363-3560.
Sq. sf00 n8yn . Furnished 2-bedrm., liv
ing, equipt kit, wall to wall carpet, ample 
storage space. Available May 1, $425
+electric, heat included. Call 731-3894.
Typing Services
HWkW/ yw8SSm ngcOh oS8 8yAc Mostly 
furnished, excellent Shadyside location off 
Walnut St. 10 minutes from CMU. $400-550 
includes utilities. Available may-August. Must 
see! 683-5396.
py," sSuOy AyywO En00 2yOfwyAcO
(male or female). Will be located at Roselawn 
15. Seeks people who arent afraid to talk 
about God. For more information call 268- 
8618.
Bwfc K8fcfAt 7Oh Typing by Ph.D En
glish, legal copy editor, vast exp., reason
able rates. 521-8383.
p1gfAt 9y8lf,y - term papers, resumes, 
letters, manuscripts, etc. Reasonable rates. 
422-0599.
Services
censed Electrologist. Call Evie Wasosky at 
521-6234 after 5:00 for appointment or FREE 
CONSULTATION.
p8nfAfAt oS8 c"y RfccObu8t" 
7n8nc"SA5 Call Hartwood Sports Medicine
& Wellness Center for help in preparation 
and achieving peak performance. Ask for Dr. 
George Pappas; 681-3003 (Oakland).
zufc 9mS3fAt oS8 -SSw
NO Medication 
NO Weight Gain 
Reduces rates for students and employees. Day 
and Evening hours Monday-Saturday. For fur
ther information ask for Dr. George Pappas; 
681-3003 (Oakland), Hartwood Sports 
Medicine and Wellness Centers.
CccAX -8yy3Ov -8SugOv 9h-hChX -yc
your point across with Buttons N More. 
Quantity prices available for 25 ands up. 683- 
3846.
Autos
9noyv Ry8mnAyAc snf8 2ymSln0 by 0fY
H.re ES8w RfAcS[ excellent condition 
w/sunroof, 4-speed, $2200. Call 661-1762,
64,000 miles. Moving to Europe.
-8nwuncfAt 9cuwyAcOv First-time buyers. 
No credit  Call George Potts 264-9350.
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE 1960
_ondon Dock
Spring has arrived and so have the exciting new 
collections from Girbaud, Edwin, Jimmy'Z, 
Polo, Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill
QkHWiPHe
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
PrHWerHH
Lutheran University Center
WORSHIP SERVICES:
Maundy Thursday Holy Communion 
April 16- 7:00 pm 
and
Good Friday Tenebrae Service 
April 17- 7:00 pm 
Lutheran University Center 
4515 Forbes Avenue
Easter Sunrise Service 
Sunday, April 19- 6:00 am 
Heinz Chapel - Pitt campus
You are invited to attend
Sponsored by Lutheran Campus Ministry 
Beverly J.R. Aurand,
Interim Lutheran Campus Pastor
PROPEL YOUR CAREER TO THE TOP IN NUCLEAR PROPULSION.
Officers in todays Nuclear Navy develop their 
talents working with some of the most sophisti
cated equipment in the world The Navy operates 
over half of the nuclear reactors in the U.S. Being 
the best in nuclear engineering takes a lot of talent 
and the hands-on experience the Navy provides 
As a nuclear propulsion officer candidate, you 
can earn S1 ,'*00 a month starting your junior year 
of college. Plus you get a $4,000 bonus upon accep
tance and enlistment into the program, and another 
$2,000 when you complete your Navy studies 
After college graduation, you receive a year of 
graduate-level education And you get the respon
sibility, respect and experience that can take you
to the top of one of America's high-tech industries 
And. as a Navy officer, you get exceptional 
benefits, and a solid salary that_can grow to 
$44.000 after five years
To qualify, you must be working toward, or 
have earned, a bachelor's degree and be a I' S. 
citizen betw een 19 and 25 years of age You must 
also have completed a minimum of one year each 
of calculus and calculus-based physics w ith a B 
average or better
Start your career at the top And lead the 
adventure as a Navy officer. Call Navs Manage
ment Programs at (412) 644-6435 There s no 
obligation
The Navy's Engineering Programs van will be on campus April 22, 1987. 
Stop by and find out specifics about the program from the Navy recruiters.
NAVY^ OFFICER.
LEAD THE ADVENTURE
puyOwn1 dft"cO n8,
Peters Pub
D/hee gfc,"y8O So 7SSOy"ynw oS8 n00 
Tynw"ynwO ]yn8fAt
9:00 p.m.
FSu8 S]A tSSw un0fc1 bSSc0yt cngyO n8y 
]y0,Smy;
HAVE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT A CAREER IN PUBLIC HEALTH?
We specialize in preparing people from all aca
demic and employment backgrounds for public 
health specialties tailored to their interests.
You Can Become 
A HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATOR 
AN INDUSTRIAL HYGIENIST 
A RESEARCHER 
A TOXICOLOGIST 
A BIOSTATISTICIAN 
AN EPIDEMIOLOGIST 
A HEALTH PHYSICIST 
A LABORATORY DIRECTOR 
A GENETIC COUNSELOR 
AN ENVIRONMENTAL SPECIALIST
For information, call 412/624-3002 
or write to 115 Parran Hall,
Pittsburgh, PA 15261.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
PUBLIC HEALTH
University of Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8The TartanApril 14, 1987
CAASuA,ymyAcO
2f,"n8w 7h L1y8c will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, April 
20. Students who wish to meet with the pres
ident should telephone his secretary at 268- 
2200 to set up an appointment.
)S] C8c Associated Artists of Pittsburgh 
Center Show at Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
Main Galleries, Fifth and Shady Avenues, 
through April 19. Gallery Hours: 10 am - 5
pm, Tuesday through Saturday and 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday.
Ln8Aytfy 7y00SA T8nmnh The Pajama 
Game. A musical comedy directed by Gregory 
Lehane. Kresge Theatre, College of Fine 
Arts. For ticket and time information call the 
Box Office at 268-2407.
2uc" Tu,3]S8c" presents her work at 
2100 Smallman Street through June 7. Spon
sored by the Society for Art in Crafts. 
Gallery hours are: 10 am - 5 pm; Tuesday
through Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm; Sunday. 
For more information call 261-7003.
Rng18uOv RyAOv nAw Rf(y0O B("fbfch
The ways that changing technology have al
tered our alphabet. Letterforms have changed 
with the inventions of the steel pen, the 
printing press and the computer. Tools of 
lettermaking shown. Exhibit designed by 
five CM senior graphic designers. Hunt Li
brary 4th floor. Fine & Rare Book Room.
are 8:30 am - 5 pm through May.
p"y 2Smn6 Lnc"S0f, L"ng0nfA,1 cele
brates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, Monday 
through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 pm, Sat
urdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration Auditori
um. A solemn mass is celebrated at noon on 
Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more informa
tion call 681-3181.
u"0 9,fyA,y LyAcy8h Laserium. Journey 
to an energetic and colorful world where blaz
ing lights and magical images glow and gy
rate to music by rock's most spectacular 
artists in Laserium, presented live under the 
stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through 
Sunday; and 1 pnv, Saturday. For current con
ceits call 321-5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Comer," interact with newly-hatched 
chicks and ducklings - new (Hies hatching 
weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images  let your imagina
tion run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Foucault Pendulum," displays proof of the 
Earth s rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321- 4300.
"The Right Moves," You're the star per
former in Buhl's new action-packed exhibit 
exploring the body in motion! Exciting 
hands-on activities - Momentum machine, 
Video Strobe, Pitch - It and more - let visi
tors investigate the mechanics of motion 
"step by step." Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Observatory. Weather permitting, view 
Jupiter, Mars and other wonders visible in the 
night sky at 9 pm - 10:30 pm, Friday.
Raceways. Discover Raceways, a traveling 
exhibit from the Association of Science and 
Technology Centers (ASTC). Explore mo
mentum, gravity, acceleration and friction 
with four fast-action, hands-on modules that 
actually parallel experiments conducted by 
Galileo and Newton! At 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; through May 3.
Captives of the Sun. Journey through the 
solar system from the edge of the universe to 
earth. Audiences explore each of the planets 
and their satellites, as well as asteroids, 
comets and meteoroids en route. At 2 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 2 pm, 4:30 pm
and 7 pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 4:15 pm, 
Saturday; and 2 pm, 4 pm, Sunday; through 
June 9.
Space Trip. Bee one an astronaut aboard the 
space shuttle! Primary students will launce
from Kennedy Space Center on an imaginary 
journey to the sun and moon. At 12:45 pm, 
Saturday and 3 pm, Sunday.
RfccObu8t" R0n1"SuOy uAfS8 L"f0Y
w8yAO p"ync8yh Rupunzel. Repunzel, Repunzel so pretty and fair is trapped by a 
wicked witch in a high tower. But have no 
fear for Rapunzel has long golden hair...and 
the prince is a pretty good climber! This ageold story is a Playhouse Jr. favorite, at 11 am 
and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, 
Sundays, through May 31.
BlyAcO
14 puyOwn1
Movies
Tfn81 So n 9"fA&u3u p"fyov starring 
Tadanori Yokoo, Rie Yokoyama and Moichi 
Tanabe. Moody, violent tale of a young 
woman who leads a young man into the revo
lutionary world of the radicals of the late 
1960's. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Special Events
E8yA," pnb0yh The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Lectures
7L9 9,fyA,y 9ymfAn8h Raymond 
Sorensen, Head of the Physics Dept., will 
speak at 3:45 pm in the Wherret Room, 
Skibo Hall.
15 KywAyOwn1
Movies
B8nOy8"ynw starring John Nance and Char
lotte Stewart. A cult favorite about an ab
normal creature in a nightmarish world. Not 
easy to forget. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
uOfAyOO RnAy0h America-Japan Society
of Pittsburgh sponsores "The Art of Persua
sion and Negotiation" at 5:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, BH.
Tygc So C8,"fcy,cu8y 9ymfAn8h Burt 
Hill Kosar Rittlemann speaks at 12:30 pm in 
CFA room 206.
Lectures
Former Governor Tf,3 p"S8Abu8t" will 
lecture at the School of Urban and Public Af
fairs on "The State's Role in an Era of Eco
nomic Transition" at 5:00 pm in Breed Hall, 
Margaret Morrison.
Workshops
Lu0cu8y KS83O"Sgh Origami (Art of Paper 
Folding) and Shodo (Calligraphy) at 10 am in 
Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Music
Tygcv So 7uO3 LSA,y8c Contemporary 
Ensemble, directed by Leonardo Balada, per
forms at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA.
Special Events
9gnAfO" pnb0yh The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
16 p"u8Own1
Movies
B0yAfv starring Kate Nelligan, John 
Malkovich and Linda Hunt. Reporter gets 
himself assigned to Athens so he can find out 
why his mother was executed by communists 
in Greece in WWD. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
p"8SAy So 0SSwh DH 2210 at 6 pm. 
Admission $1.
S1 nAw umgfAth DH 2210 at 8:30 pm. 
Admission $1.
Iww IbOyOOfSA nAw L1,0ymyAh Ts
2210 at 10:30 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
fSyAtfAyy8fAt -8nwuncy 9ymfAn8h
Dr. Gloria Li, Dept, of Radiation Oncology, 
University of California, speaks on "Heat 
Shock Protein and Thermotolerance in 
Mammalian Systems" at 12:30 pm in DH 
1102. A light lunch is served at noon prior 
to the seminar and a question-answer-session 
follows.
Music
Tygc So 7uOf, uAfS8 2y,fcn0h Karla 
Isenberg, hom, performs at 8 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
-y8mnA pnb0yh The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language Table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
BAt0fO" pnb0yh The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) center sponsors an English 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
17 E8fwn1
Movies
8ft"cSA yn," 7ymSf8Ov starring 
Jonathan Silverman, Blythe Danner, Judith 
Ivey and Bob Dishy. Neil Simon's Broadway 
hit about his experiences growing up in 
Depression-era Brooklyn. Pittsburgh
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
jS3SO Bn8c" LSAc8S0 nAw p"fAtO cS 
LSmyh Koko the Clown encounters a ma
chine which can end the world with the drop 
of a handle. H.G. Welles's unsettling forecast 
of the future includes an effort to restore civi
lization using robots, gadets, and electronics. 
Carnegie Museum of Art Section of Film and 
Video at 8 pm. Admission $3.
pSut" -u1Ov sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Workshops
Lu0cu8y KS83O"Sgh Sadoh (Tea
Ceremony). Kimono display and demonstra
tion at 10 am in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Music
Tygc So 7uOf, 9yAfS8 2y,fcn0h Scott 
Adler, voice, performs at 8 pm in the Alumni 
Concert Hall, CFA.
18 9ncu8wn1
Movies
7SAn )fOnv starring Bob Hoskins, Cathy 
Tyson and Michael Caine. Solid acting, es
pecially from Hoskins, highlights this film 
about a small-time gangster who returns from 
prison to become a driver for a prostitute.
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
-Swaf00n lOh p"y p"fAth The "thing" in 
this film is, in fact, Mothra. Both Godzilla's 
reemergence and the appearance of another 
monster moth egg are hastily attributed to a 
typhoon. The two reigning titans battle it 
out in spectacular style at the expense of 
many innocent lives. Carnegie Museum of 
Art at 1 pm. Admission $3.
7uww1 2fly8h This unsentimental film
about the friendship of two little boys in 
post-World War MM Japan was nominated for 
the Best Foreign Film Academy Award in 
1981. The sensitive work revived one of 
Japan's most important film genres, the 
shomin-geki, which explores lives of ordi
nary people. Carnegie Museum of An
Section of Film and Video at 8 pm.
Admission $3.
p"y 2S,31 sS88S8 Rf,cu8y Show,
sponsored by SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm,
8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
9ylyA 9nmu8nfh Adamson Wing, BH, at 
6:00 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $1.
Music
Tygc So 7uOf, -8nwuncy 2y,fcn0h
Cynthia Harding, voice, performs at 8 pm in
the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
-nmfAt Club 7yycfAth Open gaming
meeting. Relax with a game - try anything
from Dungeons and Dragons to your favorite 
board game or strategy game. Meeting at 1 
pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Check the 
bulletin board at the Skibo information desk. 
For more information call x4217.
19 Sunda5'
Movies
uO 9cSgv starring Marilyn Monroe, Don 
Murray and Arthur O'Connell. Nice Monroe 
film about an innocent cowboy who falls for 
a saloon singer, decides to marry her without 
asking her. Monroe sings "That Old Black 
Magic." Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
M*A*S*H, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
GALA 9gyn3y8X A representative from the 
American Civil Liberties Union will speak on 
issues associated with gay and lesbian civil 
rights at 7:30 pm in Porter Hall 125C.
20 7SAwn1
Movies
dft"c nAw ESt fA ngnA Facinating 
film about the Japanese student movements of 
the 1950's and 1960's. Initially withheld 
from release in Japan as being politically too 
sensitive. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Cmy8f,nA COOS,fncfSA So VAfly8Ofc1 
KSmyA meeting. The topic will be 
"Protecting Academic Freedom". Speakers in
clude: Ms. Pam Cook, AAUW PA Division 
Chair for Public Support for Public Education 
and Ms. Gayle Kumer, Education Chair 
(Monroeville Branch). 7:30 pm at the Cross 
Roads Presbyterian Church, Haymaker and 
Ramsey Roads, Monroeville.
Send events announcements to:
ACME
c/o University Relations 
5017 Forbes Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

I
MC S
Bryan Schmersal
Stands for truth, justice, the American way 
and lots of fun. If we work together, we can 
win this thing. What have you got to lose?
CFA
Mary Murphy
Do you want your moneys worth out of 
this school? I have a strong interest in 
helping you get it. I have a knack for 
making myself heard.
Healfdene Goguen
Carrie Pantier
I would like to represent CFA to open up 
CFAs work to the rest of the University, 
and to strengthen the value of arts at 
Carnegie Mellon as a whole.
Lisa M. Christina
I am running for Senate to help improve 
academic conditions at CMU through my 
continued involvement with the Academic 
Affairs Committee  not because it might 
look good on a resume.
Dalit Berkowitz
Together, we can improve the un-quality of 
life for CFA. Vote  and tell a friend!
Kerry Skolkin
Im a sophomore Chemistry major and 
Im currently the treasurer of my fraternity. 
Ill do my best to represent you fairly, and 
make sure our activities fees are spent 
wisely.
Glenn Kombrek
Last year I challenged CFA to vote for me 
and then to bring me problems to solve. 
Well, you did and I did, so lets do it again.

---------------------------------------------------

Figh tshI ULTME 
^JEU) SEMESTER
Th is course, for me, was not only important, but necessary. The experience 
in the field, the collection of data, the DOING science, was great! Overall, an 
incredible, informative, intense, irreplaceable experience.
Laurie Wetherbee, Rochdale, MA, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
 Wildlife Ecology & Management * KENYA
 Marine Biology & Management * VIRGIN ISLANDS
 Biogeography: Patterns of Ecological Diversity  AUSTRALIA
Integrated 5 course, 12 week Environmental Field Research Program, offered 
in Fail and Spring semesters. Accredited for 22 to 23 quarter credits.* 
Financial Aid available.
For information, please write or call: Semester Programs,
The School for Field Studies, 376 Hale St., Beverly,
MA 01915 (617)927-7777 ,
'through Northeastern UniversityCha rghees Len diaA rultiaS
THV WEIRD IY YETI :RAYYIEEM
The Carnegie Mellon Pittsburgh Womens Clan Scholarship Awards Committee 
will soon be interviewing women in order to select recipients for its 1987-88 awards.
The following selection criteria will be used:
1. Student must currently be a junior. The award will be applied to 
the Fall tuition at CM e-nAca her senior year.
2. Student must have a QPA of 2.80 or above.
3. Student should be active in school activities.
4. Student's financial need and aid will also be taken into consideration.
Scholarship applications are now available in the Financial Aid 
Office. Three or four scholarships will be awarded, a minimum of $500 each. The 
deadline for submission of the application is Thursday, April 16,1987. Applications 
should be returned to the Financial Aid Office, Warner Hall 214.
Tne camegie Mellon Pittsburgh Women's Clan is comprised of Alumni of 
Carnegie Mellon University. They have maintained an active interest in CM activities 
and have been very generous in their support of time and money.
ATTENTION!!
H&SS and IM Juniors
OPEN MEETING
for the
1987-88 H&SS Honors Program
ALL ARE WELCOME
WHEN:
WHERE:
TIME:
Thursday, April 16 
246A Baker Hall 
12-1 pm
Note: Eligibility for the honors program is determined during the Junior and Senior years by department 
and faculty recommendations as well as a 3.50 QPA in your department/major and a 3.25 QPA overall.
(Contact Peggy x2830 in H&SS Deans Office if your are interested but unable to attend the meeting.)
/eek 9n] 7f00 2uA 0lwhPittsburghs *1 and All-Comedy Nightclub
Coming 
April 28
Shows: 
7:30 pm &
9:45 pm
Admission:
$11.00
Call For 
Reservations: 
881-5222
21 & Over
(unless accompanied 
by legal guardian 
or parent)
nib edOfOecH
COUPON? ? Our Gang Pizza ? ? 
$2.00 OFF
Large 2 Item Pizza
622-7000
Expires 4/28/87
4523 Centre Avenue, Oakland Sun - Thurs 11 am - 1am Fri-Sat 11 am-2am
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922 
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection........................................................................ 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid........................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
THE ORIGINAL HOT DOGSHOPHours:
Mon-Sun 9am-4:30am 
Fri-Sat 9am-6am 
Another 1st at the Original 
ouurs :MMr u. -rF,t
served by the mug or pitcher.
Coming Soon 
NEW FOOD ITEMS
In the hamburger section! 
Guaranteed to satisfy even 
the most discriminating taste.
# IRISH BEER SPECIALS 41 
TymgOy1 yy8 DiheeOf(
ynmfO" L8ynm 9cSuc DiheeOf( 
sn8g D!heeOf(
j~ 1/2 ib.HAM BURGER FRIES, COLE SLAW AND SMALL Coke
only $2.99
I (must present coupon before order)
I expires 4-22-87

---------------------------------------------------

Cometo
tudentnPresidenti
Tuesday April 14 4:30 pm in the Adamson Wing
Carnegie Mell<
1987 Summer Studies Catalog Addendum
The following is a list of courses that were not contained in the Summer Studies Catalog that are being offered during the 1987 Summer Sessions.
LSmgucy8 9,f,A,,
15-119 C Mini 1st Session TTh 10:45-11:15 Wean Hall 8427 9 units
particular attention will be paid to those ditterent from or not present in other languages. These include structures, unions, pointers, arrays, assignment operators, bit operators, and the C processor. The UNIX C library functions, especially the standard I/O library will be covered in depth.7nc"ymncf,O21-258 Optimization for the Social Sciences II 2nd Session MTWTh 2:45-4:15 Wean Hall 8427 9 units Vector calculus; unconstrained optimization algorithms, method of steepest descent, Newton-Rhapson; constrained optimization. Prerequisite: 21-257.Music57-5xx Studio 2nd Session TBA 9-12 units 57-7xx Graduate Level StudioA one hour private lesson per week in the following areas: Voice, Piano, Organ, Harp, Violin, Viola, Violoncello, Bass, Guitar, Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, Bassoon, Saxophone, Horn, Trumpet, Trombone, Euphonium/Baritone, Tuba, Percussion, and Composition. Prerequisite: Instructor's permissions required.T8nmn54-181 Text Analysis 1st Session MTWTh 10:15-11:45 TBA 9 units How to read scripts. Investigation of techniques to examine scripts for authors' intentions, methods, meanings. Use of the printed script as the meal resource.iter artist's primary
62-151 Acting for Non-Majors1st Session MTWTh 10:15-11:45 TBA 9 units This class is designed for non-acting majors and introduces the student to the basic ""ciples of acting, character study and improvisation.WW$"1Topics in Social and Political Philosophy should be listed as 80-23780-236
85-480 Internship in Clinical1st and 2nd Sessions TBA Variable units This course exposes students to clinical research and therapeutic interventions in the area of child abuse and neglect. It is taught at Children's Hospital in the Family Intervention Center. Didactic seminars are augmented with "hands on" experiences in clinical research, an interview with the instructor culminates in an individually tailored plan geared toward student interets and project needs. Students may attend weekly case seminars  ------ A1-----* M** -*----- !*----*-----*!----J
participate collection,or to write a grant proposal
This course is geared toward the serious student Because child abuse is an interdisciplinary area, students are accepted from all majors. In the past, psychology, pre-med, pre-law, technical writing ana computer science majors have found this course useful. Students at all academic levels are accepted; however, maturity, reliability, confidentiality and professional conduct as well as willingness to work hard are mandatory. Permission of the instructor is required.
For further information on Summer courses at Carnegie Mellon, stop by Warner Hall 108, or call 268-6620. Note: Registration Forms for First Summer Sessuare due May 1, 1987.sion coursework
ezeh
Storage for Summer 
Your Lock 
Your Key 
Easy Access 
Clean & Secure 
Sizes from 5'x5' to 10'x30' 
Resident Manager 
Lighted & Fencedezhn eNORAGz
276*6080
ghgmhe 810 Trumbull Drive
Greentree
9 a.m. -
STUDENTS & FACULTYFREE RENT
RENT FOR TWO MONTHS 
GET THE 3rd MONTH FREE
bFFnR nXeORnc JUfY 1, 1987
SELf-SERVCESTORAGEASSOCIATION
Office Hours: Mon. - Fri.,
6 p.m.  Sat., 9 a.m. - 12:30 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

SENIORS^
and GRADS
-ARE YOU CLOSE TO GRADUATION?
- DID YOU RECENTLY GRADUATE?
-WOULD YOU LIKE NEW TRANSPORTATION 
FOR YOUR NEW FIELD OF ENDEAVOR 
WITH ISO CO SIGNER NEEDED?
 Purchase or lease a New Samson
 Six months prior to Graduation 
or up to one year after
(four year or graduate degree)
 Verifiable Commitment for Employment
 Lack of credit history is NO Problem
PLUS 
$400 towards your purchase 
or
90 day deferral of 1 st payment
KIVTdp FIV 2BC))F 2CpsB2 sCxB C 9C79Id 
pI LC22F FIV MdpI FIV2 dBK R2IEB99MId5 
FIV TB9B2xB Mp;
SAMSON BUICK CO.
ikk/ )MB2pF CxBhRMpp9V2-sv RC HikkQ
WHERE KB LC2B ABOUT THE PROFESSIONALS OFTOMORROW.
CALL OUR BUSINESS MANAGER, TREVA SMITH, FOR AN APPOINTMENT.
iPrWrQek
THE SLEEPING BAG CAMPAIGN
April 19-20
This April the Admissions office will host a sleeping bag 
weekend for high school students accepted to the 
university. This weekend is not confined to any 
particular major.
If you would like to be part of this extravaganza there are 
a couple of ways that you can help.
Escorts we will need current undergraduates to take 
these students to the dorms they will be staying in.
Hosts Your only responsibility is to be in your room 
between 3-5 to greet the student(s) and provide them 
with a place to sleep.
YOUR NAME_______________________MAJOR______________
DORM ____________________________
ROOM #_______________
BOX #____________________________PHONE_________________
____I WOULD LIKE TO HOST_________STUDENTS
____I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 3-5
P.M.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR HELP! IF YOU FIND THAT YOU HAVE ANY 
OTHER QUESTIONS PLEASE CALL JON MAROM AT X2082
Moving off campus...?
I WOOjeiM, I THOUGHT *M. SAID'fca ojrrf
Qenoikx, krAc oanfUTP* im4ic?
C'WOU.HOuJCAM 'i<M BeT**LK.l>00* <>> TV 
PKOue flv>t>srio,uRKowTDP5?Ufi)
X Xvx*0 YOU CAV> DO ovjf OR.W
Shody
rHAyBe kMTH fctiiULAfc *CDe*S,BUCT
roe FRE rSHil yOa SyknBk
wtuxrk. wm\ cpp the toot* x Do, 
L weeD TWE BFST!
you 'ttu CAM STIU, CALLS
OVtETO you Re ON TV\e SVSTCrA 7
you bct, I pav otoe yAowmty Fee and 
x Dri DviiDDe as onrvi As x ctice.
AMD THE BCST OF AU., X ^ fcUViNlVK
sS ^>00 BAvxt>.
<teOO BAUD ? WODl'. The FASTEST 
I CAV1 CCtOVieCT is AT /2OCk BAUD.
1200 BAUD IS RiR
MCN
(Metropolitan Campus Network)Data Connection nrom Home No Campus
A joint project of the Telecommunications Department at :arnegie Mellon and Fell of 
LennsylvaniaO Metropolitan :ampus Network (M:N) makes the connection between your 
home and :arnegie Mellon's computing resources.
MCN interfaces now at 9600 baud to
a) the Micom, for connection to the Computing Center mainframes, and
b) a terminal concentrator for connection, via Telnet software, to the Campus Andrew TCP/IP Network.
MCN is now available in:
 East Liberty  Oakland/Shadyside
 Squirrel Hill  Highland Park
In the future, synchronous communication at 64000 bps with direct access to the Andrew Network will be available.
To find out mora about MCN, contact
Carnegie Mellon Telecommunications Department 
268-2642 or
MP21 @CMCCTE

---------------------------------------------------

Only 125 Thistle Yearbooks Left!
Only 125 yearbooks are left to be sold, and when 
these are sold, there will be no other 87 Thistle 
yearbooks available. Books are $20.
To obtain your copy of the Thistle, please send the 
order form below to:
Thistle Yearbook 
Skibo 46-A
via Campus Mail, or drop it off at our office in 
person. Questions? Call x2121.
This is the only way to order a Thistle!
Name: ________________________
Year: --------------------------------------------
Campus/hocal Address:
hocal Phone: -----------------------
College:-------------------------------------
Home Address: ----------------
Ive enclosed a check for $20 made payable to Carnegie Mellon Thistle.

---------------------------------------------------

Rugby Game
Saturday at 1:00 
vs. Altoona 
IM Field
Cheer us on to victory!
Funded by Student Activities Fee
Now... Two Pregnancy Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Fbrbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 300 FYilton Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1900
Women's Health Services
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and instructions. 
Aljortion services and confidential counseling available.
Pkcwe 363
16 ONod eneenRbNO eOZZA $4.|Fx
Sprlns Super - Special -
Biondi Motor Company
1988 Tracer
1987 Lynx
All cars will be specially priced 
to insure you large savings!!!1987 Topaz
1987 College Qraduate 
tPurchase (Program
1987 Topaz 
(Free A/C)
1987 Cougar LS
The program is available for a limited time period...April 1 through August 31, 1987, for vehicles purchased or leased from dealer inventory. The deadline for ordering a vehicle through production is June 1,1987.
Anyone graduating between October 1, 1986, andSeptember 30, 1987, from an accredited 4-year college or university with a bachelor degree, students enrolled in graduate school, or who have earned an advanced degree between the same dates...will be entitled to the $400 Purchase Rebate and a special finance plan through Biondi Motor Company.
Over 300 cars to choose from at all times!!!
856-1200William Penn Highway, Monroeville 
Next to the mall
241-5000

---------------------------------------------------

April 14, 1987The TartanPage 15
Important Softball Changes - The IM Report
ftpnrts In Season 
DartsCommissioner - Paul Pecora 621-9124 
PLEASE get Playoffs completed!!
Winner of Theta Xi vs. PiLam will play piLam for campus Championship.
Floor Hockey Commissioners:
Majors - Rob Schlackman x5518 
Minors - Mike Gryzwinski x4651 Playoffs are posted on IM Bulletin Board. 
Playoffs started last Wednesday.
PinochleCommissioner - Vince Carozza x5494 
Please get Playoffs completed.
Please report scores to Vince - NOT IM 
Office.
WrestlingTom Frost and Greg Phillips - Please pick 
up your awards in IM Office.
Table TennisCommissioner - Stuart Fox x4259 
Singles and Doubles Playoffs are listed on 
IM Bulletin Board.Singles are in semifinals; Doubles are in 
quarterfinals.
Call PoolCommissioner - Vic Banko x5403 
Please get matches completed and turn 
results to IM Office.
Weight Lifting 
Commissioners :
Guy Bennardo x2214 
Keith Gorse x2222Tournament is running from now until April
24.Please check with Guy and Keith for lifting 
times.
Indoor SoccerCommissioner - Vince Carozza x5494 
Please play all games as scheduled. Finals
this week. Check IM Board for schedules. 
Triathlon
Commissioners:Mrs. Morosky x2075 Mr. Birdy x2214
Pick up and return entry forms to IM Office 
or Student Affairs Office. Entry fees are $3/individual or $7/team.
Volunteers are needed to help with the Triathlon. If you can help, please sign up in IM Office.
Triathlon date is April 25.
Prize: Individual male and female winners will receive lunch for two at Vincent's Restaurant, 214 N.Craig St.
Fencing
Commissioner - Ms. Fisk x2220 Men's Foil was held April 8.Teams competed April 2.
Results:
Teams
1st- The Bladesmen (Phil Verdieck - Foil ; 
Dave Zumbro - Epee ; Jeff Senn - Sabre)2nd -No Names (Jamshid Mahdavi - Foil ; 
Harriet Kupferman - Sabre ; Dave Lyons - Epee)
3rd- Team X (Irv Katz - Foil ; Colin Rafferty - Epee ; Bill Demjan - Sabre)
4th- The Smurfs (Stephen Chan - Foil ; Victor Rhodes - Epee & Sabre ; Bill Fisher - 
Sabre ; Doug Curran - Epee)
Women's Foil1st - Tamara Schultz
2nd - Julie Epelboin
Men's Foil1st - Victor Rhodes
2nd - Jeff Senn
3rd - Ken Bernstein
4th - Brian Jacob
Total Teams -7
Total Participants - 37
Frisbee
Commissioner - Paul Drake 421-3242 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in IM Office!!
Matches started last week.
Softball
Commissioners:
Majors - Dee Nyzio x4608 
Intermediate - Mike Gryzwinski x4651 
Minors - Stuart Fox x4259 Women's - Vince Carozza x5494 Due to the cancellation of the first two 
weeks of play because of the weather, the season has been changed to a tournament 
setup. The tournament will begin Monday, April 13. The Majors Tournament will be by double elimination, while the 
Intermediates, Minors, and Momen's will be 
by single elimination. All teams are asked to stop by the Intramural Office and pick up the new tournament schedules.
Sports Coming Up 
Track Meet
Commissioner - Paul Pecora 621-9124 
Date of Meet - Saturday, April 18 4 pm at CM Track.
Events:800 yd. relay 
1 mi. run 100 yd. dash 
880 yd. run 
440 yd. dash 220 yd. dash 
1 mi. relay shotput High jump Long jump 
Next Meeting
The last meeting of the year for the IM Board will be held on Thursday, April 16 at 12:30 in the Conference Room.
SOFTBALL 
TOURNAMENT 
FIRST ROUND GAMES
Tuesday, April 14
Maj.SAE/Pika 4:30A5:45Maj.Mongers/GSIA 5:45A4:30Int. Physics/Chiefs 4:30B5:45Int. SEI/MathGrads 5:45B4:30Min.Lone.Losers/ 4:30C5:45StammersMin.BowWowWows/ 5:45C4:30Chiefs
Wednesday, April 15Maj. ATO Wolfpak/ 4:30A5:45Just Beta-Master
,C mMaj. Gert's Saloon/ 5:45A4:30SUPA-BetaRenegadesInt. EtaKappaNu/ 4:30B5:45Toxic WastesInt. Lobs/Chem E. 5:45B4:30Min. Engineering 4:30C5:45Whiffcrs/CSOMin.Pseudo Dynamic 5:45C4:30Rams/BossHogs
Sponsored by Student Affairs & lntramurals
pril 25 
Schenley Park
Application Due April 15th!
nNSkibo-Wherrett Room
Packet Pick-up 5:00-5:30 April 24
Mini Clinic5:30-6:00 April 24

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Tracksters Take Second in PAC Invitational
Photo by Andy GiUespi
Hiram crushed both Carnegie Mellon Rugby teams last Saturday. 
Hiram totalled 22 points from both teams while the Tartans went 
scoreless.
Scoreboard
Men1s Track and FieldCarnegie Mellon 111 
Hiram 31 
Carnegie Mellon 101 
Thiel 41Men's Swimming
PAC National Finals- Women's Track 
NCAA Division III Robert Morris 74
Relays Carnegie Mellon 57Carnegie Mellon-16th
place Carnegie Mellon 96
St. Francis 9
Men's Rugby Lacrosse
Hiram A 18 Carnegie Mellon 11Carnegie Mellon A 0 Allegheny 5
Allegheny B 4Frostburg State 15Carnegie Mellon B 0 Carnegie Mellon 8
After 3 years winnine
Golfers Take Fourth in PAC Invitational
By DON GAMBLE
Tartan Sports Editor 
The Tartan Golfers travelled to Sugarbush 
Golf Course last week to compete in the 
PAC Invitational Tournament. Although the 
Tartans have won the Tournament for the 
past three years, they only managed to 
capture fourth place this year, with a score of 
439. Winning the tournament was Grove 
City(419), second place went to John
Strong Season
By NEAL A. LEVENE 
Tartan Staffwriter
Tennis season is underway. This years 
mens tennis team has played three matches 
so far, winning two of them (both in - 
conference) and losing one (out of 
conference).This year's team consists of Sophomore 
Graham McAfee and Sophomore Keith 
Grumet trading off at the #1 and #2 singles 
positions, Sophomore Darin Kaplan at_ #3 
singles, Junior Rob Schlackman at #4 
singles, Sophomore Dave Dillon at #5 
singles,and Sophomore Jay Stevens at #6 
singles. The doubles teams will be: Keith 
Grumet and Darin Kaplan at #1 doubles,
Carroll(422), while Washington and 
Jefferson(433) took third.
Two Tartans placed in the top ten at the 
conference. Mike Fitterman took first place 
for Carnegie Mellon as well as fifth at the 
Tournament with a score of 80. Senior Rich 
Hall tied for tenth place overall with a score 
of 85. Following closely wereTartans Bruce 
Irvin (88), Bob Button (89), and Don 
Michaels (97).
Rob Schlackman and Jay Stevens at #2 
doubles, and Graham McAfee and Dave 
Dillon at #3 doubles.The team won their first match on April 1 
against the Duquesne Dukes with a score of 
5-4. Later that week their match against 
Washington and Jefferson was rained out 
The Division I University of Pittsburgh 
team took it from the Tartans in a 8- 
lvictory. Finally, on April 8 the Tartans 
shut out Bethany in a 9-0 victory. This 
brings the team's record to 2-0 in conference 
and 2-1 overall. The next match will be on 
Wednesday, April 15 at home against 
Westminster College. The match will begin 
at 2:00 pm.
By DON GAMBLE
Tartan Sports Editor
The PAC Track and Field Relays were held 
this past Saturday at Grove City College, in 
Grove City, Pennsylvania. Grove City won 
the meet for the second year in a row with a 
score of 116, while Carnegie Mellon took 
second with 90 points, followed by John 
Carroll with 75 points. Although Carnegie 
Mellon placed second, the Tartans won more 
events than any other team, with first place 
ribbons in five events: discus, distance 
medley, sprint medley, 6400m medley and the triple jump. The meet raised concern 
among the team about the way they were 
scored under Grove City's rules.Hurlers Jim Kelly, Paul Schild and Greg 
Cheney each had great throws in the discus, 
124'1.5",127'7",and 11111.5" respectively. Combined, the Tartans won the event with 
364 feetWith a time of 10:45.12, runners Gary 
Harrison (800m), John Fix (400m), Dave 
Supp (1200m), and Keith Stopen (1600m) 
clinched first place for Carnegie Mellon in 
the distance medley."It was really close," said Fix. "Harrison 
ran dead even with the others, I managed to 
open it up a couple of yards for Supp, but 
once Supp took it he flew. And to top it off, 
Stopen was just as strong as ever. We 
cruised.
The sprinters also cruised, as the Tartans 
took first in the sprint medley with a time of 
3:41.69. The sprint team, consisting of 
David White, Allen Loveless, Chris Chen 
and Len O'Neal went on to claim the 
victory in the event
Stopen and Supp, along with Paul Camine 
and Pat Knoll added the fourth win, as they 
dominated the meet in the 6400 - meter 
relay. Their winning time was 18:39.69.
In the triple-jump, the Tartans were again victorious with a total distance of 
119'7.75". Chris Luckett was good for 
403", while Steve Antonson added 39'1", 
and Sam Liu topped it off with a distance of 
40'3.75".Despite these great performances, the team 
was still not pleased with the outcome, and 
there seemed to be some descrepancies about 
how the meet was scored.
"We should have won,"said Fix,"but we 
couldn't compete in some events because of 
Grove City's rules. They were really unfair 
about the whole thing."
In the past, any field team could consist of 
1, 2 or 3 men, and the score for each event 
would be the total of the individual scores. 
Thus, a 1- or 2-man team could theoretically get a higher score than a 3-man 
team. In last years meet, this rule was 
changed to not allow any team to get a score 
unless they had three men on the team. 
Despite a verbal agreement made by the 
PAC coaches three weeks ago to revert to 
the old rule for this meet, many of the teams 
arrived at Grove City only to find that the
By DON GAMBLE
Tartan Sports Editor 
After an extremely good season, two Ice 
Tartans have been named to the WPCHA All 
Star teams for the 1986-87 season. Junior 
Sean McGinn was named All Star Right 
Defenseman while Greg Timmons was 
selected All Star Center. Both players were 
selected to the first of two All Star teams
agreement was not honored. As a result, several events, such as the pole vault and the 
high jump, were not placed in by many teams, including the Tartans.
Head Coach Gary Meckley had this to say about the loss:
"Its hard to accept defeat when you're used 
to winning, but we're having a lot of 
problems this season. The teams that fielded 
well really excelled, but overall, Spring track 
is really difficult. There are a lot of distractions. We are also heavily injured, and 
no one seems to be healing. A lot of factors were involved."
When asked about the scoring rule, Coach 
Meckley added," Well, I don't want to use that as an excuse, because it's a poor one. 
Since you brought it up, I'll say that it was 
really strange. But I won't take my team to 
another event until I'm given the rules first.
We probably would have taken 3rd in the high jump if not for that rule."
However, another team member disagreed.- - (
"That rule was the biggest reason we lost 
We would have taken third in the high jump 
and second in the pole vault, and that would 
have given us a lot smaller margin between 
us and Grove City. We didn't even bother 
running the two-mile relay, because we 
figured it was senseless, we were sixteen points behind. Had the old rule been in 
effect, we would have won, easily."
The same member also commented on 
other aspects of the meet that affected the 
outcome.
"The field events were ruined by the 
weather, no doubt. It rained and hailed and 
made everything soupy. There were a lot of 
infractions by the other teams as well that went unnoticed."
According to the source, these included the 
use of a high school weight javelin by John 
Carroll, which goes considerably farther thrn 
a college spear, and an illegal relay play by 
Grove City, in which a handoff was made on 
the grass instead of the track.
Despite the loss, Meckley is still looking 
forward to a winning season.
"If we can get some people healed, and 
overcome the problem of practicing on the 
asphalt, we'll do well this season. Im 
looking forward to a much closer conference 
meet this year than last year's."Javelin hurler Paul Pecora echoed the 
Coach's feelings."The whole team is confident Head-tohead, we'll take Grove City hands down. And well win the PAC Champs this year. We're 
all sure of it"Next week, the Tartans will get another 
chance to take first when they travel to California University of Pennsylvania for 
that PAC Invitational, in which several 
Division II teams will compete as well. On 
the following weekend, the team will get the 
chance to defeat Grove City in a dual meet, 
which Coach Meckley has never been 
defeated in.
after excellent seasons on the ice.The Tartans' Head Coach Bob Koch was 
named Coach of the Year, as the Tartans 
finished the season in third place behind 2nd 
place Gannon and 1st place Duquesne. Koch 
took the Ice Tartans to the Finals this 
season, only to be defeated by Duquesne, 
which incidentally is coached by his older 
brother.
Men's Tennis Team Off to
Two Ice Tartans Named to All - Star Team;Koch Named Coach of Year
