The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 11, November 26, 1985.
.j,Peace groups light candles in summit vigil
photo by Olve Peersen
Students and guests stood on the lawn outside Skibo holding candles and listening to 
speakers from more than a dozen interest groups. The Reagan-Gorbachev summit 
meeting ended Thursday with no major breakthroughs.
Pro-Choice, Pro-Life 
show "Silent Scream"
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
As darkness fell on the evening of Nov. 
19, CMU students and other members of the 
Pittsburgh community gathered outside 
Skibo for a candlelight vigil demonstrating 
concern and hope for the ReaganGorbachev summit meeting in Geneva.
The CMU Peace Alliance and the CMU 
Chaplains Council sponsored the program, 
which included speakers from a number of 
f interest groups, music, and moments of 
silence. CMU Peace Alliance member Dan 
Rosenblum announced the different 
segments of the program.
Most of the speakers expressed doubt 
about what agreements would be reached as 
a direct result of the meeting between the 
leaders of the worlds two super powers, but 
all said that the event itself reflected positive
ly on the prospects for communication bet
ween the two countries.
Beneath the surface of what he termed the 
Superbowl Sunday assessment of the sum
mit meeting were many important issues 
being discussed and revealed, said Robert 
Marin, a professor at the University 
of Pittsburgh and a member of the 
Professors for Social Responsibility.
Something is changing in our society, 
said Marin. We must give up this selfdestructive habit of using military spending 
to substitute for political moves.
Also from Pitt that evening was Dr. Peter 
Safar, reknowned for his work in resuscita
tion medicine. Safar spoke of the absurdiBy LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Last week, the students in the 85-100 
Cognitive Psychology course learned of a
 new development which had little to do with 
the way people think. Instead, the class, 
composed mostly of H&SS freshmen, 
learned that they would have to retake their 
last exam as a result of cheating.
Professor John R. Hayes announced to his 
class November 13 that they would have to 
retake the test he had given them the 
previous Monday. Hayes told the class that 
it had been discovered that some students 
had prior knowledge of questions asked on 
the exam.
Students met the news with resentment. 
Many echoed one freshman womans com
ment, It was unfair to all the students. I 
thought the retest was unfair.  Another stu
dent said regarding the second exam, They 
tricked us. I dont know whether it was 
because of the cheating. I was personally 
glad because I didnt study for it. If I had 
studied, I would have been really angry. 
Following Hayes announcement, news 
later revealed that someone had gotten hold 
f an entire exam. Although rumors have 
been flying all week, these stories are simp
ly speculation.
When asked to comment on the incident, 
Hayes declined. I spoke to Dean Walter this 
horning, and he advised not talking about 
it. Were not saying anything until we have 
finished investigating, said Hayes.
Following a teaching assistants meeting 
^dnesday evening, TAs were told to remain 
Sllent concerning the situation. TA Lucia
ty of planning for a nuclear war, asserting 
that the U.S. and the Soviet Union must 
replace belligerence with reason.
CMU Physics department professor Lin
coln Wolfenstein, who last year circulated 
a petition among department colleagues 
stating a refusal to work on Star Wars and 
other defense-related projects, said 
Americans should pay more attention to the 
lessons of history.
Twenty-five years ago, we came very close 
to having a comprehensive nuclear test ban. 
Had there been such a ban, the world would 
be a much more secure place. . . [world 
leaders] were wrong then, and its time to 
stop listening to them.
Former Pittsburgh Courier reporter Jefferey Robinson commented on the role of the 
military, saying that the trillion dollar 
budget siphoning off our best minds to build 
death satellites and accompanying software 
made CMU a fitting place to hold a vigil.
I dont see the vision coming from this 
meeting, said Lianne Norman of the Pitt
sburgh Peace Institute, who in her address 
to the gathering recalled some leaders in 
history who have climbed to the top of the 
mountain, such as Moses, Martin Luther 
King.
I see two leaders trying to get the better 
of each other, Norman said. (The leaders) 
are trying to buy us off and put us back to 
sleep.
President Reagans advisors have been 
trying to clean up his warlike image. There 
continued on page 5
Psych class
Tsung said, At this point we cant [talk] 
because [the cheating] is still under in
vestigation. Weve turned it over to Dean 
Walter.
Hal Levine, a class member said, This 
has been going on all year. People have been 
getting answers here and there all year. It 
went on all though the year by TAs and kids.
A further development occurred this past 
Thursday when a TA was replaced in two 
of the courses recitation sections. When 
students in one of the sections were question
ed as to why they thought the TA had been 
replaced so late in the semester, many felt 
the change reflected the previous weeks 
incident.
Dean Walter also refused to comment, 
fearing any discussion might implicate an in
nocent party.
We really cant discuss anything because 
everything is pure speculation. Everyones 
heard the rumors. Any suspicions that we 
have are getting conflicting evidence. said 
one source who wished to remain 
anonymous.
Jennifer Guthart, another freshman class 
member, said, By giving us no facts, they 
are fostering speculation. All these nasty 
rumors wouldnt be so prevalent if they 
would make a statement.
The entire incident has left a bad taste in 
the mouths of all concerned. Student Patty 
Sparrow summed it up when she said, First 
of all the test shouldnt have been retaken 
because its not our fault that one person 
took a test. Everyone shouldnt be punish
ed for what one person did.
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Editorial Assistant
The silent scream of an unborn fetus was 
the unifying factor between two opposing 
groups this past week as the issue of abor
tion was again brought into the public 
doman.
Both the CMU Association for 
Life (AFL) and the Students for 
Choice (SFC) held meetings, well 
publicized to the campus commnuity, to 
show the controversial movie, The Silent 
Scream. This very graphic movie detailed, 
in a rather overdramatized manner, the ac
tual process of abortion and actually show
ed, through the use of ultrasound, an ac
tual fetus being aborted.
The movie is narrated by Dr. Bernard 
Nathanson, one of the foremost authorities 
on abortion. A co-founder of the National 
Abortion Rights Action League, he former
ly headed the largest abortion facility in the 
non-Communist world where he supervised 
the performance of nearly 60,000 abortions 
and personally performed over 5,000. The 
movie begins with Nathanson describing the 
development of a fetus, progresses to describ
ing the abortion procedure, and concludes 
with a real-time ultrasound video of a fetus 
undergoing an abortion by the Dila
tion/Evacuation/Aspiration method.
The general reaction to the movie by most 
people who viewed it  both pro-choice and 
pro-life  was unanimous and disturbing. 
Regardless of what side one takes, the abor
tion process is not a pleasant one.
The meetings, held on Monday and Tues
day of last week, both attempted to inform 
the campus community on the problems, 
solutions, and alternatives surrounding an 
unplanned pregnancy.
Students for Choice began the event with 
their showing of The Silent Scream on 
Monday evening. When asked why a prochoice group could show a movie on the ac
tual abortion proces, Rober Pfiefer, senior
in Economics and Public Policy, and one of 
the founders of SFC replied, We want peo
ple to make informed decisions. Granted, 
abortion is not a pretty sight and is not th 
thing you just go and do on your holidays 
. . . but for some, it is the only solution to 
a grave problem. He continued by saying, 
. . . we (SFC) are only trying to make sure 
that a woman has the supreme control over 
her own body, guaranteed by law.
SFC also showed the program Frontline, 
a news story showing two women having 
abortions, as well as Planned Parenthoods 
response to The Silent Scream. A heated 
debate therein ensued while several pro-life 
members actively asserted their views on 
what was being presented.
SFC is not a pro-abortion organization. 
It is not affiliated with any national ProChoice groups Its basic goals, as outlined 
in their charter meetings last year are: 
continued on page 5
In This Issue:
News
Shadyside rapes....................page 3
Features
Summit and the Hype..........page 7
Tequila Junction...................page 9
Entertainment
Life With Father................page 11
Line.....................................page 15
Sports 
Tartans drop NCAA playoffspage 15 
Basketball season opens....page 15
Editorial ..............................page 22
ACME.................................page 27
Cheating means exam retake 
for Freshman

---------------------------------------------------

MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
November 19, 1985
The meeting was called to order at 8:00 after 
a reception and orientation for the new senators.
Members Present:
Bett, Chu, DeLeon, Flynn, Hynes, Jagerski, A. 
Lee, K. Lee, Murphy, Mukherjee, Novak, 
Rocher, Salomon, Taylor, Whysel, Lonsky, Appelbaum, Trampel, Greenberg, Noesen, Patnaik, Cousineau, Lossing, Bollinger, Giles, 
Sheinfeld, Planchettel, McDonnell, Welsh, A. 
Greenburg, Ayre, Kaplan, Volan.
Members Absent:
Chun, Kombrek (excused)
Motion to accept to the two GSIA seats 
Christian Planchettel and Richard Sheinfield. 
Seconded and accepted by acclamation
Jean Novak accepted by acclamation as SUPAs 
representative.
Nominations for Senate Chairman:
Peter Cohen 
Eric Rocher
Due to an unbreakable tie and after much 
debate, it was decided that voting for this posi
tion would continue next week, and, conse
quently, nominations and votes for committee 
chairman will be likewise postponed for one 
week.
There were no reports from the President, SDC, 
or IFC, and departing Chairman Michael Bett 
thanked Senate for the placque they d given him 
as a token of their appreciation for his service 
as both senator and chairman.
Treasurer:
Fred needs an assistant treasurerthis position 
is open to any activities fee-paying student.
Academic Affairs:
The plus/minus grading system was unanimously 
voted down by the Educational Affairs 
committee.
Campus Affairs:
Peter Cohen is meeting with Oscar Mayer con
cerning the pro-rating of parking.
The gym has been contacted about the large 
number of non-student^ using the facilities and 
action will be taken. x J
Funding and Recognition:
1) The Astronomy Club wants to move $10 from 
their office supplies account to their postage 
account. This was granted unanimously.
2) The Carnegie Melting Pot, an organization 
for transfer students, is asking for recognition 
and an account of $360 for brochures and 
publicity. Both were granted.
3) The Amiga Users Group was granted
recognition.
4) WRCT was given $300 to fly to Maryland to 
cover the weekend game against Salisbury 
State.
Public Relations and Human Resources:
Work needs to be done on the float for this 
Saturdays parade^
/
A Senate write-up should be done for the
Thistle.
Announceme
Academic
icemeats:
ic Affairs,Monday, 4:30. 
Campus Affairs, Thursday, 7:00. 
Public Relations, Thursday, 6:00. 
The meeting was adjourned at 9:24.
Students hold candlelight vigil
continued from page 1
has been no change in the warlike policies 
of his Administration, but there has been 
considerable effort to camouflage their true 
intentions, charged United Electrical Radio 
and Machine Workers of America Field 
Organizer Gene Elk. With the arms race 
soaking up taxpayers dollars, government 
programs to meet human needs continue to 
be slashed.
City Councilman Tom Flaherty echoed 
Elks sentiments, saying that the arms race 
profits Westinghouse, Rockwell, General 
Electric and other defense contractors: 
These are headquarters for some of the big
gest arsenals in the world.
In one of the evenings more candid
moments, a visibly pregnant Rachel 
Naismith, a staff member of Hunt Library 
said that the peace movement has chang
ed my mind about having a child. 
These hopes are not based on faith in 
government, politics or world technology, 
said Naismith. The inhabitants of this 
world can turn (U.S.U.S.S.R. relations) 
around starting at the grassroots level. 
Richard Adams, a community organizer 
in the Homewood-Brushton area, also ex
pressed optimism: Concern for people never 
goes out of style, he said. People who dare 
to be different are going to make a dif
ference. . .weve got to be cold-bloodedly 
committed to organizing and hanging 
together.
Help bring the world together. 
Host an exchange student
International Youth Exchange, a Presi
dential Initiative for peace, brings teenagers 
from other countries to live for a time with 
American families and a 
tend American schools.
Learn about partici
pating as a volunteer 
host family.
Write- YOUTH EXCHANGE 
Pueblo, Colorado 81009
EH The International Youth Exchange.
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUAPANTEEDi^*J|
Great Styles Start at...v v wtitSIT
fliKcnmtns
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
COLOR
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
MUST BRING COUPON 
SAVE $2.00
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Compiei* wffft iftampoo & ttyitng$25.00
ONwmptmNovember 30C&gjjWCCJ1TM
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500 
No Appointments
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty Merrtbers, Graduate Students & CMU Guests to visit and inspect our ONE BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at
i#THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
UNISEX HAIR SALON

---------------------------------------------------

November 26, 1985The TartanPage 3
Shadyside rapist poses threat to CMU students
By DEBBIE YUE
Tartan Staffwriter
Recently, there have been a number of 
alarming incidences in this general com
munity. On Monday morning, November 
18, two women, who are not affiliated with 
CMU, were raped in Shadyside on two 
separate occasions. They both described the 
rapist as a 58 white male of medium build 
and wearing a brown ski mask.
Earlier that same morning , a CMU stu
dent was jogging on Forbes Avenue and spot
ted a man wearing a ski mask driving an 
orange/red van on the corner of Forbes Ave. 
and Morewood Ave.; the van was last seen 
turning onto Margaret Morrison Street. The
next day at 7:00 p.m., a CMU staff member 
was indecently assaulted while she was riding 
her bicycle on Schenley Drive. When the 
assailant attacked her, she screamed, which 
caused him to run away and into Schenley 
Park. Her description of the assailant was 
exactly the same as the description of the 
rapist.
Both the Pittsburgh Police and the CMU 
Police are working closely together on this 
case. The Pittsburgh Police are warning area 
residents that this particular person drives 
a red van, is dangerous, will crawl through 
windows, and hides in dark areas for cover.
Since this person has not been caught yet 
and since the crime rate is higher than usual
during the holiday season, extra caution 
should be taken.
1. Doors to the dorms should always be 
fully closed and dormrooms should be lock
ed if there is no one in the room;
2. Dont leave notes on your door adver
tising your absence/return;
3. Never walk alone at night and always 
walk on well lit streets;
4. If you are being followed, you should 
cross the street and change directions; if the 
person continues to follow you, then go to 
a store or a home and call the police;
5. Never carry around a large sum of
cash;
6. Women should take extra precau
tions. Avoid clothing that limits freedom of 
movement and be sure not to leave your 
purse open;
7. During vacation, lock all doors and 
windows. Keep all valubles away from the 
windows;
8. Above all, report suspicious persons 
and cicumstances to the CMU police 
immediately.
The Housing Office is also posting notices 
in dorm buildings asking CMU residents to 
be careful so that all possible dangers can 
be prevented.
CMU students enter float in "Celebrate Pittsburgh" parade
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
A group of CMU students designed and 
entered a float representing CMU in last 
Saturdays Celebrate Pittsburgh Parade, 
which swept from Three Rivers Stadium to 
Point Park Saturday afternoon.
The parade was organized by Pittsburghs 
Chamber of Commerce to celebrate the 
Rand McNally Most Liveable City in 
America rating for 1985 and Andrew 
Carnegies 150th birthday. Prominent Pittsbugh institutions were invited to 
participate.
Dean of Student Affairs Braden Walter 
relayed an invitation from Carnegie Institute 
to Student Senate for a CMU/Camegie In
stitute float organizational meeting. Senator 
Peter Lonsky was appointed Chair of the 
Float Committee and attended the October 
23 meeting at Carnegie Institute.
It turned out that Carnegie Institute 
wanted CMU. to join them on their Um
brella of Science Float. I said that we would 
not join because CMU is not just science We 
would make our own,  Lonsky said.
The Float Committee received $600 for 
expenses from CMU President Richard M. 
Cyert. Eight people joined the committee. 
Physical Plants Electrical garage, CamegieMellon banners, skirting and a rented flatb
ed truck were acquired.
I sent letters to all department heads ask
ing them for ideas for how we could repre
sent their colleges. I also sent a letter to the 
football coach because of the undefeated 
season. Only the football coach replied, 
Lonsky said. So I had to work with what I 
could think up.
The committee put together a float depic
ting many parts of CMU life: a miniature 
Fence, Buggy and giant Tartan Plaid.
Students Karl Bechtel, Phil Tubesing and 
Amanda Cohen worked at a drafting table, 
computer terminal and lab chalkboard, 
respectively. Nadine Flynn and Matt Noesen 
dressed as a costumed drama student and
Tartan football player, respectively. Joe Mur
phy, dressed as a CMU graduate in cap and 
gown, handed diplomas to the crowd 
which read,Celebrate Pittsburgh, Were 
No.l.
H&SS awards Honor Pins in Adamson
The College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences (H&SS) distributed Honors Pins to 
this years Honors Thesis students in a 
ceremony in the Adamson Wing Nov. 22.
Following an introduction by H&SS 
Associate Dean Richard Leo Enos, Professor 
Emeritus A. Fred Sochatoff gave a lecture 
entitled What is Honor? The two then pro
ceeded to distributed pins to this years 
Honors Thesis students and to all other 
students and advisors who have done an
Honors Thesis since the programs inception 
in 1982.
This years recipients were: Victor Aluise, 
Elyse Anchell, Robert Arnold, Terese Ber
nard, Kate Bonello, Jennifer Browner, Karen 
Cerroni, Amy Conroy, Helen Garey, Mary 
Gaylord, Paula Glowgowski, Leigh Hamp
ton, William Kostak, Jenifer Kubitz, Rachel 
Levine, Michael Mclnemy, Diana Melamid, 
Heather Newton, Joanne Power, Lee Ann 
Prosky, Laurie Schorr, Andrea Shiah and 
Sara Yant.
Bring  A  Friend 
get a 
FREE SESSION
EVERYONE KNOWS BRONZE IS BEAUTIFUL! 
HAVE A RICH DARK TAN ALL YEAR ROUND
FREE TANNING SESSION 
By Appointment only 
Offer Expires Nov. 30,1985
Also available by appointment: Manicure 
Facials  Therapeutic Massage
5850 Forward Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 
422-8266/422-TANN
 Pedicure 
+** 
***&? * 
*$$**
ACCEPT THE CHALLENGE 
ATNRL
Become a member of NRLs team of over 1400 scientists 
and engineers who conducts scientific research and 
advanced technological development for tomorrows 
Navy Join the Navy s corporate laboratory which has a 
worldwide reputation for technical excellence and 
achievement for new and improved materials, equip
ment, techniques, systems, and operation procedures 
for the Navy
Career opportunities exist at the Laboratory for 
research-oriented Electronics and Mechanical Engi
neers with Bachelor s and/or advanced degrees and 
Ceramic Engineers/Materials Scientists, Physicists 
and Computer Scientists with Masters and Ph.D.s. 
Contact your College Placement Office for an on cam
pus interview on December 5 or send a resume to
Naval Research Laboratory
Administrator. Technical Recruitment Programs
Code 1813-CR
Washington, D C 20375-5000
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER  U S CITIZENSHIP REQUIRED
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
CalculusPH-126A
Pro 1. N, IN
PhysicsPH -1268
ChemistryPH  2258
EngNshasaBH -1358
second language
EconomicsPH-2268
Intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 2358

---------------------------------------------------

Scotland Yard 
Open
?
Thursday, Friday, Saturday 
7 p.m.2 a.m.
(Closed Thanksgiving Weekend)
Interested in
Performing at 
Scotland Yard?
Call X4821

---------------------------------------------------

November 26, 1985The TartanPage 5
Student Senator clears up Senate view of Honor Code
By MYLES GREENBERG
Special to The Tartan
There has been quite a bit of discussion 
and argument on campus recently about the 
proposed honor code. From listening to some 
of the discussion that has been going on, it 
is clear that there is some misconception 
among both students and faculty about why 
the honor code was proposed, its current 
status, and its nomimal provisions (and, con
sequently the pros and cons of instituting an 
honor system.)
The proposal of an honor code for CMU 
seems to have originated because quite a few 
upperclassmen felt that CMU either need
ed or would benefit from an honor code. For 
a whole host of reasons, some questioned 
why CMU did not have an honor code as 
other prestigious universities do: Eventually 
these feelings were transmitted to student 
senators, particularly those serving on the 
Academic Affairs committee. The commit
tee members generally felt that if an honor 
code could be entirely written and enforced 
by the students alone, it would be acceptable
to the student body. This idea floated 
around for a while, and since there was a 
favorable reaction to the idea among 
students, faculty, and administration, the 
committee went to work on drafting a pro
posed honor code.
When this preliminary honor code was 
presented to the full Senate many objections 
came from both senators and the audience. 
At the time the two most prominent objec
tions to the honor code were that students 
were afraid that they would not be allowed 
to give or receive aid on homework 
assignments, and secondly, that the honor 
code was another unwanted restriction on 
students freedom. It was perceived that this 
would increase the pressure on students. The 
first objection was modified by sending the 
honor code back to the committee and revis
ing it. However, when the proposed honor 
code was again introduced to the full Senate 
there was a general feeling that the honor 
code was too vague as stated. The proposed 
honor code had been purposely left am
biguous when it was written by Academic
Affairs. The members of the committee felt 
that this honor code would be a first step in 
implementing a full honor system. The 
specifics of how this code was to be enforc
ed would be worked out at a later date. Since 
this philosophy was to be a first at CMU, it 
was to be worked on gradually, step by step, 
instead of impulsively enacting a sweeping 
honor system. Accordingly, only the code 
itself, and not a full system of enforcement, 
was brought up at the Senate meeting.
Two weeks ago, the Senate voted to remove 
the proposed honor code from consideration 
as a general referendum question. Most 
senators wanted to have this honor system 
worked out more specifically before deciding 
on it. Therefore, a joint committee of faculty 
and students will be formed to try to work 
out a full and complete honor system and 
means for implementing it at CMU. The 
product of this committee will be considered 
by both student and faculty Senates.
In January 1986, the Center for Design of Educational Computing (CDEC) will 
inaugurate a scholarship program to support student participation in educational 
computing. CDEC invites qualified students from all colleges at CMU to apply for 
the program. CDEC scholars may bring their own ideas for projects to the program, 
work out team projects, of become involved in any of the many projects underway 
at CDEC.
CDEC Scholars will be selected on the basis of several flexable criteria. CDECs 
aim is to develop a well balanced group of students representing a variety of talents 
and interests who are able to work effectively togther to plan, design, and imple
ment both individual and team projects.
Abortion groups state reactions to "Silent Scream
//
continued from page 1
(1) SFC is not politically/partisan 
affiliated.
(2) SFC is not a single issue group.
(3) SFC is a group of students interested 
in getting back to the basic 10, the Bill of 
Rights. They are against any legislation at 
the government level that violates or infr
inges upon the liberties of an individual as 
safeguards by the Bill of Rights  tradi
tional standard of American democracy.
The reason the abortion issue was picked 
as one of the major rallying points is that 
it is a direct violation of specific amend
ments and contrary to the Bill of Rights. A 
law such as the proposed anti-abortion one 
would be telling women that they have no 
control over their own bodies.
As Pfeifer said, Such a law would take 
decision making and thereby choice out of 
the affected individuals hand  an un
necessary infringement on the individuals 
that is contrary to the spirit of the Bill of 
Rights and to the driving force behind 
Students for Choice.
Education is another main driving force 
behind SFC. Pfeifer feels that if people are 
more aware of sex, contraception, pregnan
cy, and alternatives to unwanted pregnan
cy, the problem of abortion would be great
ly reduced. Seeing an abortion would make 
any woman think twice, he stated. Thats 
why we showed the movie. SFC doesnt ad
vocate abortion. They only wish it tor re
main, as it has been for the past 12 years 
since the Rho vs. Wade Supreme Court deci
sion, a legal alternative to an unwanted 
pregnancy.
The CMU Association for Life (AFL) 
began their meeting also with the showing 
of The Silent Scream on Tuesday evening. 
Dr. James Dattillo, obstetrician, who spoke 
at the meeting and answered questions, in
itially told students that the movie was . . . 
overdramatized. Although it is an accurate 
representation of an actual abortion in pro
gress as captured by ultrasound.
As with the SFC meeting, a heated debate 
also ensued while several pro-choice 
members vociferously asserted their views on 
what was being presented. A discussion on 
the movie and the issues also was 
conducted.
The whole basis behind AFL, says presi
dent Felicia Thibeault, is to increase cam
pus awareness about the abortion issue and 
promote discussion among the student body. 
We feel the program was a success; a 
number of people stayed after the program 
and shared their opinions.
The basic tenets of the AFL organization 
is that the fetus is a living human being who 
should have the most fundamental rights ex
tended to them. The fetus is an innocent 
victim in this procedure, said Claire 
Wallace. Thibeault continued, If more peo
ple would be able to see the movie, they 
would think twice about having an abor
tion.
AFL is not trying to take away the rights 
of the mother, but rather is trying to extend 
those rights to the fetus. AFL feels that those 
choices are not extended to the innocent 
child, who has no say in the issue of abor
tion. Even if there is the remotest possibili
ty that the fetus may be considered a living 
human being just as you and I, shouldnt we 
try and protect it and give it rights?
queried Dattillo.
Both organizations seem to agree on the 
fact that unwanted pregnancies are 
undesirable. The debate ensues over what, 
and to whom Americans rights are to be ex
tended and how our government is to be in
terpreted. Both want only to inform people. 
As Ruth Weening, member of SFC and Dave 
Walrath, member of AFL both stated, You 
cant argue with someones beliefs. They cant 
change yours, and you cant change theirs. 
All both these organizations want to do is 
inform the people. The decision, at least for 
now, is up to the individual.
AUTHORS NOTE: I have in no way in
tended. to cover the issues of the extremely 
heated topic of abortion, as that has been 
done in numerous books. It was only my in
tention to attempt to cover a duo of oppos
ing organizations, their meetings, and a very 
controversial topic, in as unbiased a man
ner as possible for the reader to gain an in
sight into each of their goals and operations.
PREGNANT?
And you didn t mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
Fwtonsi *ss
THE COMFORTABLE
JAPANESE COUCHXmJOR BED. 661-6499
CARLISLE MATTRESS
FACTORY OUTLET
,BS:
Womens Health Services.
.GgiChflclfcBpa.
Abortion Services
Free Pregnancy Teste.
Confidential
Counseling
107 6th ft..powntown Fjh^
Exdting and Challenging Career Opportunities
Master of Business Administration
A small, highly selective MBA program has 
been designed by The Ohio State University 
to provide professional management 
education to students with nonbusiness 
academic backgrounds. This two year full-time 
program
 facilitates a high level of student and
faculty-student interaction
 has no prerequisite course work
 is especially attractive to students with
liberal arts, scientific, and other 
nonbusiness backgrounds
 is built upon a tightly integrated study of
foundation management tools and 
concepts
 offers the opportunity to concentrate in one
or two management fields through 
elective course work
 is offered by one of the top 25 schools of
management in the country and is 
accredited by the American Assembly of 
Collegiate Schools of Business
Last years graduates were very successful in 
finding career opportunities Examples of 
positions they selected include the following:
 assistant to the chief executive officer.
Midland Mutual Life field marketing manager. Ford Motor
Company
 management trainee with an
international assignment, Chase 
Manhattan Bank
 assistant product manager, Pillsbury
 financial analyst, Hewlett Packard
 inventory control manager, IBM Corporation
 account executive, Merrill Lynch
 consultant. Price Waterhouse
 management trainee with an international
assignment. Procter and Gamble 
For a brochure describing this program and 
application information, please 
contact:
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
177$ College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399 
614-422-8511
The Ohio State University

---------------------------------------------------

s snow covers the English countryside, the great dining halls of medieval castles are filled 
with the sights, sounds, and aromas of preparation for the Madrigal Feast. Yuletide in 16th 
century England is a busy, happy occasion with celebrants gathering holly, ivy, and pine to 
decofate the tables, musicians rehearsing, and cooks preparing the traditional boar's head dinner, 
complete with the festive wassail bowl and flaming plum pudding.
But the food is not all that fills the evening with the joy that it brings. The Jester and jugglers 
practice their trades. The magicians prepare their newest feats of magical skill. The dancers perfect 
their routines. The singers choose their festive songs.
All of this ceremony and more will be brought to Camegie-Mellon University as the third annual 
Madrigal Feast is held in the Great Dining Hall ofSkibo Castle. The Office of student Activities 
the Department of Music invite you to join the lords and ladies, Renaissance musicians and Madrigal 
singers, jugglers and magicians for this festive occasion on Friday, December 6. Dress in your best 
16th or 20th century finery and join us for a Renaissance feast served in the candlelit Skibo Ballroom.
and
Menu:
lentil Soup
Apple and Nut Salad
Roast Baron of Beef
Fan Roasted Potatoes with Skins
fresh Green Beans with Mushrooms
Individual Breads
Choice of Beverage
Fruits and Nuts
Location:Information:
6:00 pm Reception - Skibo Lobby Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk
7:00 pm Dinner - Skibo Ballroom Thursday, November 21-December 5.
(Monday through Friday (9:00 am-5:00 pm)
Price:
$9.00 non CMU students 
$7.00 CMU students
partial credit will be given to 
contract holders; total amount 
may be deducted from Validine 
account
$4.50 children
Entertainment will be provided by the 
Camegie-Mellon University Chamber Choir 
and friends. Guests are invited to wear 
traditional clothe.
Sponsored by the Office Of Student 
Activities. For more information, call 
578-2107, Monday through Friday 
9:00 am-5:00 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Star Wars proposal: wrong reasons?
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Contributing Editor
I call upon the scientific community, 
who gave us nuclear weapons, to turn their 
great talents to the cause of mankind and 
world peace; to give us the means of 
rendering nuclear weapons impotent and 
obsolete
-Ronald Reagan, March 1983
Since President Reagan made his plea, the 
scientific and political communities have put 
the Strategic Defense Initiative, or Star 
Wars, at the top of their agendas. What they 
have found, according to several professors 
at CMU, is that a comprehensive defense 
making nuclear weapons impotent and ob
solete is both impossible and undesirable at 
this time.
It sounds nice to be able to protect the 
entire United States, said Dr. David Kaiser, 
professor of History. But I wouldnt be able 
to say it would be better. Weve been able 
to live with MAD (Mutually Assured 
Destruction). We have fcad 40 years of 
peace.
It is Kaisers feeling that if Star Wars is 
deployed, the Soviets will feel vulnerable - 
never certain that the United States wouldnt 
attack the Soviet Union without fear of mass 
retaliation. Such a fear would end the era 
of MAD, destabilizing the world as before 
1945.
We really havent had a clash of vital im
portance (since 1945). I think in Europe we 
evolved a Situation we both complain about 
but we dont do much about, said Kaiser. 
We really havent had that much to fight 
over, and with MAD the incentive to stay out 
of war is tremendous. As a result, clashes 
like the division of German}, the crisis in 
Berlin at the time of the airlift and the com
munist insurgency in Greece were handled 
without Soviet or American military 
intervention.
The superpowers have clashed repeated
ly over the Third World countries. China, 
Nicaragua, Ethiopia, Yugoslavia, Iran, 
Egypt, South Korea, South Vietnam and 
other countries have all switched alliances 
since 1945, but Weve never really let it get 
in the way of Soviet-American relations, said 
Kaiser.
Kaiser points out that the United States 
went ahead with a controversial military 
operation in Vietnam just before a Summit 
meeting. The world expected the Soviets to
 pull out of the Summit in protest, but they 
didnt. On the other side, most experts ex
pected the United States to take drastic 
measures after the Soviets went into 
Afghanistan. The United States imposed on
ly limited sanctions. Kaiser feels that a suc
cessful Star Wars program would undermine 
MAD, ending a 40 -year period of limited 
tension.
Another potential reason for not pursu
ing Star Wars is cost. According to Dr. Nico 
Habermann, professor of Computer Science 
and director of the Software Engineering In
stitute, Star Wars could cost the United 
States $200 billion per year for 35 to 40 
years. Maybe Im off by 50%, said Haber
mann. But even $100 billion per year would 
be too much. It would be a great disservice 
to the country. There is only so much money 
in the pot, and if so much is going to Star 
Wars research, it has to be taken from 
somewhere else.
Habermann is also against Star Wars for 
other reasons. The military maintains that 
its still in the feasibility study stage. I hope 
they are being truthful. Habermann is cer
tain that Star Wars is not possible from a 
software standpoint and is concerned that 
Washington wont believe that.
Habermann explains that there are cer
tain laws in every science under which all 
scientists must operate, like simple algebra. 
No matter how much a person would like 
to prove that 2 + 2 = 3, he cant because the 
laws of algebra dictate to him that 2 + 2=4. 
Software engineering is the same, according 
to Habermann, in that programs of the size 
necessary for Star Wars are going to have 
bugs.
When consumers buy new software, they 
often attribute faults or bugs to careless 
programming, but software engineers argue 
that such problems are inevitable. If I take 
a single theorem, I can prove it true with 
the right algorithm, but if I string 100,000 
theorems together . . .thats where I have 
severe doubts. The problem is multiplied 
with programs of the size needed for Star 
Wars. If just one bug exists in a program, 
it can throw an entire system down the tubes.
What makes finding bugs more difficult 
is the impossibility of testing the system. Like 
any other science, software engineering nor
mally relies on controlled experiments to 
test a system, smoothing out the bugs as 
the experiments progress. Therefore, the 
scientists can anticipate any difficult pro
blems and check to see if the system can 
operate under unusual circumstances.
But scientists working on Star Wars have
limited opportunity to test their system and 
have no control over inputs. The United 
States can send up a missile of its own to test 
the system, but What if the Russians switch 
to missiles made of wood or maybe missiles 
that bounce off the moon? asked Haber
mann. The Russians have control of all the 
variables dealing with inputs (in this case 
the inputs are missiles). Habermann said, 
To rely on something like this is very 
dangerous.
Some are hoping artificial intelligence 
(AI) can make up for some of the deficien
cies in current software engineering. They 
are hoping that computers can do some of 
the programming that fallible humans had 
done in the past.
But Habermann contends that AI is not 
all of a sudden going to change the world. 
He points out that AI researchers are large
ly dependent upon the same software 
engineering techniques that make Star Wars 
infeasible, just as physicists have to rely upon 
mathematics. The programs the computers 
used to do the programming must be 
written by humans. So any errors made in 
the initial writing could end up hindering 
the end result.
Even if the scientific community could 
solve all these problems, Habermann feels 
an effective Star Wars system would still be 
impossible. During the two World Wars, the 
Germans didnt have what they needed to 
build an effective battleship fleet. So they 
came up with the submarine. The Russians 
submarine in this case might be a very lowflying missile that if shot down by Star Wars 
would destroy anything on the earth below.
In other words, an effective Star Wars 
system that could destroy all existing Soviet 
weapons would inevitably be countered by 
some new weapon of some kind. The United 
States would then try to find ways of defen
ding against the new Soviet technology and 
so on, with both sides forever coming up 
with new ways of penetrating the others 
system. Such a battle could only escalate the 
arms race beyond belief.
Despite the potential undesirability and 
impossibility of building Star Wars, govern
ment enthusiasm for the project continues 
to grow. On November 3, it was reported in 
the New York Times that the preferred 
missile defense design is more intricate and 
immense than previously suggested. The 
Senate Armed Services Committee still plans 
to build a nearly perfect nationwide shield.
One reason attitudes toward Star Wars
have continued to be enthusiastic in the 
government is that some experts still feel the 
software can be designed. There is no fun
damental reason that it should be impossi
ble to meet the computing requirements of
S.DiL, Dr. Danny Cohen, chairman of the 
Pentagons advisory cojnmittee on Star Wars 
was recently reported to have said in the 
Times. Referring to the Apollo spacecraft, 
Cohen said, All of them have bugs. Yet they 
are trustworthy. They work.
For the most part, I think it is feasible, 
said Mark K. Miller, president of Boeing 
Aerospace Company, the Times reported.
But Kaiser feels there are other reasons in
volved. The President and some people 
around him have for a long time belonged 
to a school that is very uncomfortable with 
deterrence and MAD. This school is oppos
ed to deterrence on moral grounds. He 
(Reagan) is one of a number of Americans 
who feel its important to put us back in a 
position of invulnerability.
This school of thought dictates that the 
moral evil of deterrence makes it imperative 
to pursue any possibility of making the U.S 
invulnerable. Said Kaiser, There is a 
tremendous temptation to find a way out of 
this standoff, although Id feel much better 
if we could just accept it.
Another reason for the continued effort 
put into a seemingly impossible program is 
a kind of inertia. There are certain 
economic and bureaucratic pressures for 
spending new money on weapons, said 
Kaiser. He added that once the initiative for 
Star Wars came from the President and it 
became apparent that he was planning an 
intensive effort, companies and government 
agencies knew potentially a tremendous 
amount of money was going to be spent, and 
they were anxious to get their share. 
Meanwhile, political pressures for conti
nuing Star Wars begin to mount. According 
to The Times, Some in Congress argue that 
strategic defense, like nuclear missile and 
aircraft construction programs, will create 
a host of skilled and unskilled jobs. The 
same issue reported Representative Kenneth 
B. Kramer as having said, . . . we have to 
think about what a stimulus this can be for 
our economy.
So even if policy makers come to the same 
conclusions that Kaiser and Habermann 
have come to that Star Wars is not 
desirable or feasable we may continue to 
persue Star Wars for political, economic or 
bureaucratic reasons.Geneva Summit: media hype
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Staffwriter
Thats right. Another article about the 
summit, just in case you havent heard 
enough about it already. But for all the 
build-up and media hype surrounding this 
weeks summit between Ronald Reagan and 
Soviet President Gorbachev, the actual 
meeting seemed to come and go in a 
veritable flash with no spectacular 
developments and seemingly little real pro
gress towards agreement on major issues. So 
why was there so much media hype in the 
first place?
The Soviet Union and the United States 
conducted the first summit in 1955 and in 
the past thirty years, the meetings have pro-* 
vided some singular moments, some of 
which relieved tensions between the two na
tions, some of which served only to increase 
tensions. Dr. David Kaiser of CMUs History 
department says that there are three types 
f summits, The first type takes place when 
there is a real possibility for some concrete 
agreement between the leaders; these took 
place most often during the 70s. The second 
type is when there is no possibility of con
crete agreement, but both sides feel that it
would be beneficial they got together and 
got some media coverage. The third type is 
when the summit breaks up suddenly and 
actually increases tension, as in 1960 and 
1961. This weeks summit seems to fit nice
ly into Dr. Kaisers second category. And it 
certainly was a media event.
The three major issues of the recent 
meeting between Reagan and Gorbachev 
were human rights, regional issues and arms 
control. Dr. Kaiser points out, There is no 
way that a single summit is going to bring 
about a major systematic change in the 
Soviet position on human rights, and in 
fact, the Soviets seem to respond even less 
favorably on this issue when they feel they 
are being pressured into a compromise. 
Some progress seems to have been made on 
the subject of regional issues and civil avia
tion, but the issue of arms control was left 
unresolved.
Dr. Adele Lindenmeyer also of CMUs 
History Department, explains that for twen
ty years now, one philosophy which sought 
to preserve a balance between the two na
tions was the idea of Mutual Assured 
Destruction; simply that each country could 
inflict and unacceptable level of damage on
the other in the event of a nuclear confrontaion, minimizing the likelihood of either 
side initiating such an incident. The 
Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI) seems to 
threaten this balance of power and the 
Soviets are bitterly opposed to research and 
development in this field. But as strongly as 
the Soviets oppose SDI, Reagan supports it. 
This stand-off was apparent long before the 
leaders actually met in Geneva. For any 
number of complex and inter-related 
reasons, the time simply was not right for 
major changes in this area.
Yet the media was not discouraged by this 
lack of actual progress. The event was 
analyzed and stigmatized, illustrated and 
over-rated until it was a nearly 
unrecognizable heap of journalistic jargon. 
To what effect? In considering the massive 
coverage, rather than trying to discern what 
actual change the media affects, it may be 
more interesting to realize what climate the 
media hype may reflect. Dr. Lindenmeyer 
suggests that the hype may be an illustra
tion of the building tension in peoples minds 
about the situation between the super
powers. The level of anxiety seems to have 
steadily increased since the late seventies and
throughout the early eighties, when there 
was hardly even a pretense of diplomacy be
tween the countries. The very meeting of 
these two men seems a step in the right 
direction.
And the hoopla was not limited to the 
American media. One of the most in
teresting things to arise from this summit was 
the somewhat significant change in handl
ing of the event in the Soviet media. A smil
ing Ronald Reagan appeared on the front 
page of Pravda and other major newspapers 
in the Soviet Union. Theyre finally learn
ing the rules of sophisticated international 
conduct," says Dr. Lindenmeyer, theyre 
learning how to play the game. Indeed the 
administrations of both nations seemed to 
see this summit as a perfect opportunity for 
gaining media favor and exposure. The 
Reagan administration seems masterful at 
using the media to its advantage. Certainly 
they played the latest Reagan attempt at 
diplomacy to its fullest.
So if the media coverage of this weeks 
summit was slightly overwhelming this may 
be due to the skill of the politicians in 
managing their exposure. It also may be a 
sign of a climate of world-wide fear

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 26, 1985
Alert: TV brainwashes shoppers
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Its getting harder than ever to escape the 
world of advertising. Even if you stopped 
watching TV, reading, and listening to the 
radio, you would be confronted with flashy 
billboards and signs competing for your at
tention and your dollar. Just about the only 
way to avoid advertising is to sit at home and 
do nothingan impractical solution if 
youre not a complete recluse.
Grocery stores are one of the largest con
sumer traps around. Aside from eye
catching packaging, low-price stickers,
status-related products and subliminal 
advertising, items are arranged and 
displayed in a manner to attract consumer 
attention. Whimsical shoppers are faced 
with an array of last-minute diversions at the 
check-out counter such as cheap gossip 
magazines, candy, and lusty romance novels.
Now theres one more way for advertisers 
to reach consumers in the supermarket  
through television. Thats right, super
markets are pushing their products on televi
sion screens located at check-out counters.
A local company, appropriately named 
Check-out Line Television Inc. is furnishing
supermarkets with TVs and videos for 
customers waiting in line. The idea is to in
fluence customers while they are waiting in 
line, which is usualy about fifteen minutes.
The company was started by a CMU pro
fessor about three years ago; today the TVs 
have been installed in almost 35 Foodland 
Supermarkets. The televisions feature both 
advertisements and entertainment such as 
mini-lifestyle spots centered around product 
promotion.
Although consumer reaction to super
market TVs is mixed, a spokesman for H.J. 
Heinz Co. feels that the TVs are serving
their purpose. He saia, it one person looks 
at the screen and sees a commercial for our 
turkey dressing and says I need that, were 
doing the right thing.
Since most consumers come out of the 
supermarket with items they do not need 
and items they didnt intend to buy, the 
advertisements are working. Consumers are 
now subject to a whole new arena of persua* 
sion techniques. In fact, youve probably 
been affected by advertising more than you 
realize. If youre walking around humming 
a product jingle, then the advertisers have 
reached you too.
Carnegie upset about American business
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
If Andrew Carnegie were able to view the 
steelmaking situation in America today, 
what would he say? Perhaps he would mut
ter, Phooey, and take the next flight out 
to Japan. Or is it even more likely that 
students would see him wheeling his new 
Macintosh back from the Computer Store?
He would say that this is a hell of a time 
to go into the steel business, asserts Harold 
Livesay, author of Andrew Carnegie and the 
Rise of Big Business. But nobodys saying 
that, and thats what has been wrong with 
American steel for the past 20-30 years. 
In his Nov. 21 lecture, Andrew Carnegie: 
Right Man, Right time, in the Wherrett 
Room, Livesay, a business historian, said he 
sees Carnegie as the agent of transfer for 
certain kinds of business techniques into 
American manufacturing.
But that link between business and 
manufacturing has weakened, according to
Livesay, resulting in what he calls a 
widespread failure of management in this 
country. Is high technology the answer? 
Livesay doesnt think so.
Rolling forth on the cutting edge is not 
the solution if other industries collapse from 
lack of understanding, he said. Putting 
your shoulder to the high-tech wheel is not 
sufficient to support our economy, and I 
doubt our ability to manage it.
Livesay, a native Kentuckian, was among 
other things a tomato picker and steel driver 
before going to the University of Delaware, 
where he received his B.A. in 1966. He 
received his Masters of Arts degree from 
Johns Hopkins University in 1968. He has 
taught at the University of Michigan, the 
State University of New York at Binghamton, 
and currently heads the History department 
at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute.
His book, part of the Library of American 
Biography series, is a required text in CMUs 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences
core course, The Development of American 
Society.
Despite Carnegies great wealth, Livesay 
claims that what drove the man was not 
a desire to become wealthy. Comparing 
Carnegie to George Stenton, the creator of 
the first American railway (He just wanted 
to see the damn thing run), Livesay said of 
Carnegie: He was delighted that he could 
make Steel and know to the penny what it 
cost...He had an obsession with making 
things. According to Livesay, this obsession 
was enough to make Carnegie abandon his 
roles of hustler and dealmaker, for the 
less dramatic role of manufacturer.
He drove the furnaces hard, however, ap
palling visitors from Great Britain, who ac
cording to Livesay said, We have equipment 
that 20 years later is still serviceable. 
And that, Carnegie is supposed to have 
said, is what is the matter with the British 
steel trade.
Livesay contends that America has lost
sight of Carnegies enthusiasm and has relin
quished its role as risk taker and learner to 
countries such as Japan. Livesay, who visited 
Japan, said he was impressed by its peoples 
reverence for business history and by their 
belief in the business principles espoused by 
Carnegie: (The Japanese) believe in the 
lessons of America...They told me, You 
Americans have lost sight of the lesson you 
taught the world: industry can get very com
plicated, but business is very simple. 
(America) has lost the knack of adapting 
technology, but not the knack of creating it. 
said Livesay. We need to know what thesd 
things will cost. As Andrew Carnegie said, 
Worry about cost, the profits will take care 
of themselves.
one facesAMERICANcancer alone CANCER
? SOCIETY'
Deadline for next issue is
December 2, 1985
Dossier wet from any stt Carnegie-Mt manuscripts Please inclt* dress, and u a separate c Due to piag anonymous submissions cannot be a
les submissions it enrolled at n University All ist be typed your name ad- ihone number on r sheet only *m laws, missions and der pseudonyms pted
. j,A
CONFUSED?
call Michele Keane 
at 2111

---------------------------------------------------

November 26, 1985The TartanPage 9
Tequila Junction: authentic mexican
By WENDY HUNTINGTON
Tartan Staffwriter
The Mexican atmosphere of Tequila Junc
tion is authentic and warm with rich adobe - 
like walls and a ceiling with wood-beams. 
There are several cozy booths, enclosed on 
three sides by walls, but for the most part 
there are small scattered wooden tables. 
Plants and pottery add to the comfortable 
atmosphere. Adjacent to the restaurant is a 
small lounge; it is largely a standing area 
where singles can mix and enjoy the frozen 
drinks.
The menu, printed in a newspaper for
mat and very descriptive, offers a wide varie
ty of Mexican food and is geared towards the 
gringo (foreigner). Plain tortilla chips are 
served with a mild, chunky vegetable salsa 
to get you ready for the meal; the first order 
is on the house; each additional order is 
$1.50.
Tequila Junction has a wide selection of 
frozen cocktails; its specialty is the margarita 
which can be ordered in a variety of flavors: 
strawberry, melon, papaya, or gold. Mex
ican beer is also featured.
For those not familiar with Mexican food, 
there is an a la carte menu offering a 
sampler, or a combination platter. The taco 
sampler has three tacos: one ground beef,
one shredded beef, and one shredded 
chicken. Each taco is topped with lettuce, 
tomatoes, and cheese. The shredded beef 
and the shredded chicken are both excellent. 
Unfortunately, the taco shells are not the 
freshest and the ground beef was 
overcooked.
Nachos and Mexican pizza are two great 
appetizers to begin a meal with. Tequila 
Junctions nachos are very filing; melted
cheese, green chiles, and tomatoes smother 
the lightly salted tortilla chips which lie on 
a bed of frijoles (refried beans). Mexican piz
za is more saucy and much lighter than the 
American variety; served on a flour tortilla 
with tomatoes, chiles, ground beef, cheddar 
and montery jack cheeses. Both are great!
The burrito grande, which covers the en
tire plate, lives up to its name. As with most 
of Tequila Juncitons entrees, it can be 
ordered with either ground beef, shredded 
beef, or shredded chicken. It also contains 
. frijoles, guacamole, cheese, lettuce, 
tomatoes, and sour cream. It is rolled in a 
flour burrito and covered with chile con 
queso and red enchilada sauce. The burrito 
has a delicious blend of tastes in each bite. 
The Chimichanga is a deep-fried crispy bur
rito stuffed with frijoles, guacamole, sour 
cream, tomatoes, cheese, lettuce, rice, and 
a choice of meat; it offers another fabulous 
mixture of flavors.
Deep-fried French vanilla ice cream is a 
satisfying way to end a meal. The crunchy 
coating is very sweet and the ice cream in
side is refreshingly cool. Served on a bed of 
whipped cream and oozing vanilla, it is 
recommended for only those with a sweet 
tooth.
Tequila Junctions menu constitutes a 
pleasant diversion from steaks and burgers, 
although it does offer a few of these on the 
menu. Its atmosphere is relaxing but ethnic 
enough to be special. The service is excellent 
and the waitresses uniforms keep with the 
Mexican motif. Tequila Junction features the 
same menu for both lunch and dinner and 
can be relied upon for consistent quality. 
Generous portions at affordable prices make 
Tequila Junction well worth the trip. Ap
petizers range from $1.95 to $ 
range from $4.75 to $10.95.
J.95. Entrees
Tequila Junction
Shop no. 31, Station Square 
open Mon-Th 11:30 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. 
Fri-Sat 11:30 a.m. to 12:00 
Sun noon to 10 p.m.
261-3265
Information Link
Federal Depository library Program
 Books, journals, maps, and more
 Selections tailored to local needs
 More than 1,380 locations across tht^
 Free access
For more information, contact your 
local library or write to the Federal 
Depository Library Program, Office of 
the Public Printer, Washington, DC 
20401.
d
N
3
<v>'
&
o'
Sponsored by Office of Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

# file Search format Font Style
C  t tlntk} lit. Western Theatrg n|n ^ssssm?!r^rn^m1 recent. ......... ............._ utlders re introduce the primitive, .........ih-thr-n ^ut *" ter to rediscover the roots of Western cultural
>atre looks something like thisShotl Clipboard
NOW Available at (he
Macintosh 512K $1,560 
Macintosh 128K $1,160 
upgrade to 512 K $410 
Extra Drive $350
CMU Computer Store:
Imagewriter $430 
LaserWriter $4,500 
Imagewriter II* $460
- Draw attention to yourself.
Draw a chart. Draw a building. Draw Another example of how Macintosh
a conclusion. helps students work smarter, quicker and
Whatever you need to draw, a Macintosh1 more creatively. And the beauty of Macintosh
can help you do it. With programs like is, you dont have to know diddley about
MacDraw MacPaint7 and MacDraft you can computers to use one.  g
combine text and graphics to illustrate your What does Macintosh draw
ideas like theyve never been illustrated before, best? Attention to your work W.
 I1#- .Apple Computer Inc Apple, tit Apple logo. MacDraw and MacPaint are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc MacDraft is a trademark of Innovative Data Design, Inc. Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh ijboratory. Inc. and is being used with its express permission. Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
*nof yet available

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Baroque music at Synod Hall
PittsburghPublic Theatre: Life with Father
By LISA YOKESON
Tartan Staffwriter
When Life with Father became the 
longest running non-musical on Broadway, 
authors Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse 
knew they had done something right. This 
delightful comedy was first performed in 
November of 1939, and captured the still 
standing record some 8 years later. It has just 
arrived at the Pittsburgh Public Theatre, the 
second show of their 1985-86 season. Set in 
Manhattan in the early 1880s a time when 
48th Street was on the outskirts of town  
Life with Father proves that some things, like 
family life, dont change much over time.
Kings College, Cambridge. After graduating 
he went to Italy and Germany for further 
training. Now regarded internationally as a 
principal exponent of the Baroque style of 
singing, he has appeared in concert and on 
recordings with such groups as the English 
Concert, the Academy of Ancient Music, 
Music Antiqua Koln, and with his own vocal 
solists ensemble, Chiarosuro. Rogers has 
taught extensively on both sides of the Atlan
tic, and is on the faculty of the Royal Col
lege of Music.
The concert will feature a delightful pro
gram of music by seventeenth-century 
French, English, and Italian masters in
cluding John Dowland and Claudio 
Monteverdi. In these works, ODette will ac
company Rogers in beautiful art songs as 
well as present selections for solo lute and 
theorbo.
Tickets for this concert may be purchas
ed at the TIX booth in Oliver Plaza or at 
the door. Ticket prices are $10.00 ($7.00 
student).
This concert is sponsored by the 
Renaissance and Baroque Society of Pitt
sburgh, the citys only organization devoted 
to the continued enjoyment of early music 
by sponsoring celebrated artists who share 
their talent using authentic instruments and 
interpretation. For additional information, 
please call 682-7262.
As the name implies, the play elaborates 
on the Day familys attempts to cope with 
their impatient, hostile, stingy, yet loveable 
paternal figure. Victor Raider-Wexler does 
a splendid job of bringing the character of 
father to life. Fathers adamant tirades con
cerning everything from household finances 
to the temperature of his morning coffee are 
just as convincing as his rare but effective 
attempts at compassion. Raider-Wexler 
moves through both ends of this emotional 
spectrum without for a minute allowing the 
audience to lose sight of the character.
Actress Jill Larson portrays Vinnie Day, 
fathers faithful spouse. Larsons natural 
grace and poise carry her effortlessly through 
the role. She is pleasure to watch as she 
winds her way in and out of sticky situations 
with her husband. She accomplishes this oc
casionally with wit and intellect but more 
often by just playing dumb.
Mr. and Mrs. Day are blessed with four 
lovely sons, redheaded of course. Clarence,
Pianist Irene Schrier will present a piano recital tonight at 8:00 p.m. in the Alumni 
Concert Hall, which is located in the College of Fine Arts building.
Paul ODette, possibly the worlds greatest 
lutenist, and Nigel Rogers, internationally 
acclaimed baroque tenor, join together to 
present a magical program of Baroque song 
for lute and tenor voice. The concert will be 
held December 7, 1985 at Synod Hall, 125 
North Craig Street, adjacent to Saint Pauls 
Cathedral in Oakland. The program will 
begin at 8:30 p.m.
Pittsburgh born ODette began playing 
the guitar at age eleven. After several years 
of performing rock music, he took up the 
classical guitar, winning first prize in the 
Columbus, Ohio Symphony Orchestras 
Young Musicians Competition after only six 
months of study. Encouraged by his teacher, 
ODette taught himself the lute using as a 
guide the treatises and method books of the 
sixteenth century. He then went to 
Switzerland where he studied lute and 
medieval and Renaissance p rformance 
practice.
Renowned for his peerless virtuosity and 
authentic interpretations, ODette has per
formed throughout Europe, North America, 
and the Middle East both as a soloist and 
in conjunction with other great artists. He 
has recorded for Telefunken, Nonesuch, 
EMI, BASF, and Astree. ODette is current
ly Director of Early Music at the Eastman 
School of Music in Rochester, New York.
Nigel Rogers began singing as a boy tre
ble and later became a Choral Scholar at
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre presents Life with Father, a play that has delighted audiences since 1939.
Whitney and Harlan (David Shuman and 
Robert Desmond) are oozing with so much 
cuteness that one cannot help but enjoy their 
performances.
Designer Frank J. Boros has created a very 
appealing set, complete with period fur
niture and decorations. David Murin has 
done an equally impressive job with the 
costume designs, except for an obvious 
tendency to dress Ms. Larson repeatedly in 
shades of pink and lavendercolors not par
ticularly flattering considering her fair skin 
and red hair.
Special mention should be given to CMU 
student Peter Corless, a senior art major, for 
the impressive poster and program cover he 
designed especially for the Pittsburgh Public 
Theatre.
Whit Wales plays John, who is an up-andcoming entrepreneur who takes to selling 
Dr. Bartletts Magic Cure-All, which makes 
his mother quite ill. The other two sons,
the eldest, is forced to wear one of Fathers 
old suits for a while because Father refusues 
to buy him more clothes before he goes off 
to Yale. Clarence quickly finds that a few of 
Fathers mannerisms come along with the 
clothinghe suddenly finds himself acting
more and more like his father, despite his 
attempts to fight it. Although actor Robert 
Stanton has a slight tendency to over do it 
a little, this makes for some very amusing 
scenes.
Leta Anderson plays Cora, a charmingly 
eccentric cousin of the Day family who drops 
in from out of town and brings the young, 
wide-eyed Mary Skinner (played by 
Katherine Hiller) with her. A romance en
sues between Clarence and Mary, which pro
vides for several warm, tender moments 
while also giving Father something else to 
complain about.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 26, 1985
Power Windows tour comes to Pittsburgh
By ANTHONY A. DATRI
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The first album from Rush was their self
titled 1974 release, which featured Alex 
Lifeson on guitars, Geddy Lee on vocals, 
and John Rutsey on drums. The next 
album, Caress of Steel, saw the advent of 
Neal Peart on drums, and the lineup has re
mained stable ever since.
Rush started out as a straight rock band, 
who range ranged from light songs like 
Lakeside Park, to more intense ones like 
Working Man. As time went on into the 
mid to late seventies, Rush moved into more 
progressive material, using synthesizers in 
many peices. Peart penned many of the 
lyrics, which often had mythological and 
fantasy themes. The music often had a 
dreamy quality, and there were a number 
of multi part concept peices, the greatest 
of which was the 1976 release, 2112. Span
ning an entire album, 2112 remains of of 
the masterpeices of progressive rock music.
In fact, the first time I heard of the clari
ty and freedom from noise of CDs (Compact 
Discs), I wished that 2112 would be released 
on CD. But alas, it has not.
However, some of the products of the 
bands third stage have. Moving Pictures, 
Signals, Grace Under Pressure, and the new 
Power Windows are available on CD. This 
latest stage in the bands history sees them 
relying more on Lees synthesizers, and 
much less on the legendary guitar work of 
Lifeson. Its kind of sad, especially when you
Rush have progressed through straightahead and progressive Rock, and now have a synthesizer-dominated sound.
listen to 2112 or The Trees, where Lifeson 
turned in some wonderful work, both electic and acoustic. But times change, and 
Rushs new direction has gained them many 
new fans, probably more than the switch lost 
them.
PIZZA  PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
810 IVY STREET682-3333
rnrr  Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-12 am
We sell pizza by the slice
LARGE $
PIZZA
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
Of
Ad
FREE
of Coke With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA
I saw Rush on the Signals tour, and was 
kind of disappointed when Geddy spent 
most the the concert standing behind iiis 
keyboards, and Alex stood or leaned against 
the stacks. Pearts percussion was (as always) 
fantastic, if not quite as diverse as before.
10 bucks is 10 bucks. . .
Peart is known for having one of the biggest 
drum setups around, as well as a variety of 
bells and other percussion, and (of course) 
a gong.
Throughout their career, Rush has re
mained a relatively closed band, with few 
guest artists. However, the members have 
helped out other artists on several projects. 
All three appeared a few years ago in the 
Max Webster song Battlescar, and of
course there is Geddys immortal ap
pearance in Bob and Doug Mackensies 
Take Off Of course, 10 bucks is 10 
bucks....
Up until Moving Pictures, all three 
members had great hair. But Alex and Neal 
cut most of theirs off, and Geddy later 
followed suit. Sigh. But as you can see, Ged
dys is getting long again, and Alexs isnt 
as short as it once was. We can only hope :-)
[Not only do I carry around a teddy bear, 
have long hair, and like Twisted Sister, Bach, 
BASIC, and C, but I also know .'Laura, 
Thunderbunny, (Jeff), and A. Square, who 
are Peons, sMiles the Happy Badger, who us
ed to be one, and Registered Hefford, Clem 
Cladiddlehopper, and Sheep, who are all 
Ucons. -aad]
FIND 
iJN
if you have the talenl, ambition and determination to become part of an elite group, you may have what it takes to meet the challenge of the infinite frontier...the sky.
Air Force pilots are a unique breed. They accomplish and experience things that are beyond the grasp of mos.t people. They know the exhilaration of flying sophisticated multi million dollar aircj'&ft that are 
on the leading edge of technology.
In addition, we can offer good starting pay with regular increases, complete medical and dental care, educational opportunities including college tuition, and 30 days of vacation with pay every year.
if you would like to share the skies with a very special group of people,* please contac t :
TSgt. Dale Patterson at 
(412)644-2705
AIR
FORCE
A great way of life.

---------------------------------------------------

Student theater: Scotch 'n' Soda presents Line
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
We spend a large part of our lives stan
ding in lines, waiting, sizing up oppor
tunities to move ahead, to secure the first 
position. But what, really are we waiting for? 
Is it worth the pain we cause ourselves and 
others when we act ruthlessly to move ahead? 
In the end it all seems meaningless and 
rather pathetic.
That seems to be the message of Israel 
Horovitzs 1967 play Line, presented last 
week at the Mellon Insitute Auditorium by 
ScotchnSoda, CMUs student theater group.
Directed by Mary Beth Gilmore, the play 
concerns five people who are standing in a 
line. First is the boorish and not very in
telligent Fleming (played by Frank 
Schurter). Waiting all night with his grungy 
duffel bag and a supply of beer, Fleming is 
determined to beat the crowd. He is joined 
by the youthful and exuberant Stephen 
(David DesRoches), who loves Mozart and 
likes to read other peoples wallets, and to 
have people read his own.
Next comes Molly (Michele Osherow). 
When Fleming takes Molly aside to warn her 
that Stephen is of perhaps less-than-sound 
mind, Stephen sneaks to the head of the line 
as the stolid, low-key Dolan (A1 Morales) and 
Mollys prissy, childlike husband Arnall 
(Paul Kilkenney) come onto the scene.
Things quickly get out of hand as each 
character connives his or her way to the front 
of the line. Molly, the epitomal slut, screws 
her way to the top, dancing off stage with
each of the men before her husbands notquite-jaded eyes. Each character, though, 
has his turn up front. Stephen moves up 
through guile concealed beneath his inno
cent exterior; Fleming uses brute strength; 
Dolan hangs back and makes his move when 
no one is looking; Arnall undergoes a tran
sient epiphany and drives Stephen off to 
Mozarts Requiem.
The line is a symbol of the artificial con
ventions of our civilized life. When the rules 
are broken, all order is lost. Push inevitably 
leads to shove, and a savage free-for-all en
sues, replete with knee-to-the-groin shots 
and characters being hurled off the front of 
the stage.
We never learn what these people are 
waiting for. It could be a show, a sporting 
event, or death and spiritual transendence. 
They themselves seem to be not too sure, 
muddle in their quest, confused between the 
base and material and the ineffable and 
transcendent. Stephen finally peels the line 
off the floor and swallows it, but the others 
make him cough it up. In the end he spits 
out not a single line, but several, and 
Stephen leaves Fleming, Molly, Dolan and 
Arnall each at the front of their very own 
lines.
Line explores ground covered rather more 
successfully by Becket, Pinter and others. At 
several moments, especially the end, the play 
seems to strain to achieve significance, 
though at other times some of the character 
interplay manages to be compelling. Paul
Heres some advice that will last a lifetime.
If youre planning a family, the 
Association for Retarded Citizens 
wants to help you have happy, 
healthy children. Call or write the 
ARC.
Our advice can last a lifetime.
Help build the arc
Association for Retarded Citizens
Study Abroad Through Syracuse University.
Study in one of SCI s 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France, Italy, Spain, and other locations. Grants are 
available for a semester, a year, or a summer of study abroad.
SEND TODAY FOR OUR CATALOG!
Mame _
Address 
City___State,.Zip
ipo
Phone
ON OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 
Vnrk 1 ?44 4170 (315) 423-3471 57
Kilkenney delivered an entertaining perfor
mance as Amall, and Michele Osherow, seen 
last year in ScotchnSodas productions of 
Hooters and Cages was also quite good.
The play runs for just over an hour; the 
addition of a second one-act would have 
made for a more complete and satisfying 
show. Line is an interesting vignette, but it 
doesnt quite stand up on its own. The 
presentation of two one-acts by the same 
author was worked quite effectively by 
ScotchnSoda last year with Lewis John 
Carlinos Cages. An additional one-act was 
in fact intended to run with Line, but the 
organizations limited resources probably
prevented that from happening.
This year ScotchnSoda is breaking from 
its decades-long tradition of presenting an 
original musical at Spring Carnival, opting 
instead to do a production of a non-original 
two-act comedy. ScotchnSoda was involved 
in the original productions of such musicals 
as Godspell and Pippin, but these were done 
in association with the Drama Department, 
and the organization is really not equipped 
to support the production of an original 
musical, as shown by last years feeble pro
duction of Colette Silvestris lamentable 
Zelda. We can probably look forward to 
something a little more lively this spring.
Morphic Resonance will appear in the Adamson Wing on Saturday, December 7th. 
The performance will feature a work titled The Plan, and admission is free.
UPGRADE
Unlock the potential of your Macintosh by increasing its 
memory to 512Kb. Expand the capabilities of your current 
software. Take advantage of powerful titles like Jazz, 
Excel, Switcher, ect... Our high quality upgrade is 100% 
compatible with Apple's, comes with a 120 day warranty, 
and costs only $225. Call 683-6244 for more information.
KAMQUEST
SYSTEMS
STOP CMUS PARTICIPATION IN 
APARTHEID
As a member of the campus community, I strongly 
advocate the divestment of CMUs holdings in 
corporations involved in South Africa:
NameCollege/year
AddressPhone
(Please do not sign if you have already endorse 
our petition.)

---------------------------------------------------

PRINTS
MAKE
GREAT
GIFTS
Call 578-2205 or stop by MMC B-7.
CAP
DECORATE YOUR
SPACE
with our PRINTS
20* off
with student I.D. everyday!
11.......11-^-OJSTOM FRAMING SHOP--------------------------------GALLERY Of PRINTS
323 Boulevard of the Allies, Pittburgh, PA 15222
412/281 2133
Monday thru Friday 8 45 to 5 30 Saturday 9 30 to 5 30
Return to:
Students Against Apartheid 
Student Activity Desk 
Skibo
Your favorite Wendys, Arbys, Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc delivered to your dorm. 
Call667-FOOD
5:00 p.m. to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiale Delivery Services, Inc.
---------
...
EVEN STRAIGHT A S CANT BASIC FACTSHELP IF YOU FLUNK TUITION. Army ROTC Basic Camp
Today, the toughest thing about going 
to college is finding the money to pay for it.
But Army ROTC can helptwo
ways!
First, you can apply for an Army 
ROTC scholarship. It covers tuition, 
books, and supplies, and pays you 
up to $1,000 each school year its 
in effect.
But even if youre not a 
scholarship 
ROTC
with financial assis
tance up to$l, 000 
a year for your 
last two years in 
the program.
For more 
information, 
contact your 
Professor of 
Military 
ARMY ROIC BEALLYOUCANBE.
Purpose Army ROTC camp provides military train
ing to qualify students to enroll in advanc
ed officer training at their college campus
es. Participation in this training entails no 
military obligation.
Location Fort Knox, Ky., 35 miles south of 
Louisville.
Time The camp lasts for approximately 6 weeks. 
There are several training cycles available 
during the summer.
Training a. Army History, Role & Mission
b. Map Reading/Land Navigation
c. Rifle Marksmanship
d. Leadership Techniques
e. Physical Training
f. Individual & Unit Tactics
g. Communications
h. First Aid
i. Drill, Parades & Ceremonies
j. Military Courtesy & Traditions
Pay Approximately $540 plus travel expenses.
Room & Board Lodging and meals are provided. Students 
will live in open bay barracks.
Scholarships Camp students may compete for 2-year 
full-tuition college scholarships.
A detailed fact sheet, video tape and specific dates are 
available. Contact your Professor of Military Science.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
pnhert Butts named All-American
Tartans drop to Salisbury in playoffs
Tartan Basketball wins "Big Heart" tourney
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
SALISBURY, MD.  It was a marvelous 
season, another banner year for Chuck 
Klausings Tartans. It is unfortunate that its 
end was caused not by a player or a coach, 
but by the schedule makers and the yellow 
flag of a referee.
Carnegie-Mellon was defeated by 
Salisbury State College of Maryland, 35-22, 
in the first round of the NCAA Division III 
football playoffs. It was the second time in 
three years that SSC defeated CarnegieMellon in the playoffs.
Final Score 
SSC 35 
CMU 22
The loss came despite tremendous efforts 
by Mike Hensel and David Richards. Hensel 
completed 27 of 45 passes for 368 yards and 
three touchdowns, all season highs and 
career highs for Hensel, and his only in
terception came in the final minute on a 
desperation pass to Don Fleming. Richards, 
playing in his last game for Tech, caught 
eight passes for 134 yards and a touchdown.
The play that decided the game came 
with two minutes left in the game. Trailing 
28-22, Carnegie-Mellon drove 48 yards to 
the SSC 35 yard line. After Tim Denmeade 
was stopped in the backfleld and a pass to 
Denmeade fell incomplete, the Tartans had 
a fourth-and-ten. Hensel dropped back and 
found halfback Mike Minjock over the mid
dle for a 34 yard pass that would have made 
it first-and-goal at the one.
There were two flags down on the play. One 
of the penalties was an ineligible receiver 
down field, and the other was called pass in
terference. Somehow, and no one is quite 
sure how, this deadly combination ac
counted for a fifteen yard penalty and a loss 
of down. SSC took control and Mike Coppa 
finished off the Tartans with a 34 yard run 
that gave the Sea Gulls their final 13 point 
margin of victory.
The schedule also hurt Tech. Not having 
played since October 26 against Bethany, the 
Tartans were not as sharp as usual, commit
CMUs 76 points. It was the shooting of Cole
man and Franklin, and the Tartan control 
of both the offensive and defensive boards 
midway through the second half that 
brought the Tartans back from a seven point 
deficit for the victory.
In the other game Friday night, Point 
Park College edged Pitt-Johnstown 66-65. 
The game was blown wide open early in the 
game as Point Park led by as much as 13 
points early in the second half. Point Park 
pulled ahead with their superior shooting;
notably by Rick Condo and Kelley Randolph. 
However, Pitt-Johnstown staged a dramatic 
come back later in the second half lead by Bill 
Lindsays tournament high, 28 points. Lind
says shooting was not enough, though, as 
Pitt-Johnstown fell short.
In Saturdays consolation game it was PittJohnstown coming up on the better end of 
a 66-65 score against La Roche College. La 
Roche had a balance attack led by five 
players who reached double figures in scor
ing. That was not enough though as PittJohnstown was able to match La Roche point 
for point. Near the end of the game, the 
contest degenerated to an exercise in trading 
baskets. Pitt-Johnstowns Joe Baublitz scored 
the winning basket with time running out.
ting 60 yards in penalties, many of which 
cost them big plays. There was a near con
sensus among the players that the layoff 
hurt. A number of players didnt have their 
usual quickness and speed, and a stingy 
defense gave up some big plays while unable 
to catch speedy Sea Gull quarterback Rob
Disbennett. SSC played last week, a 44-14 
romp over Ferrum College.
Disbennett didnt have a great day, but his 
offense played flawlessly and converted eight 
of sixteen third down conversions, including 
four on the drive that put them ahead 28-14. 
the senior quarterback completed 10 of 16 
for 90 yards and two touchdowns while run
ning for 48 yards on seven carries. The Gulls 
were led on the ground by Coppa with 95 
yards, followed by Frank Oliver with 74 
yards, including a 61 yard run that led to 
the Gulls second touchdown.
Hensel had an amazing game, accounting 
for 436 of the Tartans 515 total yards. He ran 
for 68 yards on 11 carries, leading Tech. 
Denmeade rushed for 66 yards on 13 carries. 
Hensel completed passes to nine different 
receivers, led by Richards and fullback Vic
tor Boland, who had five catches for 52 
yards. Boland, the Tartans leading rusher on 
the season, suffered a minor concussion that 
kept him out for most of the first half, and 
ran for just 12 yards on six carries.
The play of the day for the Tartans came 
early when tight end Fleming ran a wrong 
pattern but burned safety Bob Rohann deep 
for a 56 yard touchdown reception. Tim Kel
ly also caught a five yard TD pass from 
Hensel.
SSC ran for a total of 323 yards as five 
backs had over 48 yards. It was by far the 
highest total Carnegie-Mellons defense has 
allowed all season.
After the game, it was announced that 
Robert Butts, Tartan senior captain and left 
tackle, was named All-American. Butts had 
already been named first team AllConference. Other All-Conference Tartans 
were Boland, linebacker and captain Mike 
Paterchak, free safety Andrew James, and 
Hensel. Hensel was a near unanimous win
ner of the conferences offensive player-ofthe-year, with one of the seven votes going
Carnegie-Mellon head coach Larry Ander
son against his former team, Point Park Col
lege. Anderson had been an assistant at PPC 
for ten years before joining CMU two years 
ago.
The game started slowly, with neither 
team able to shoot over 30 percent in the first 
half. But in the second half the pace pick
ed up as Jeff Phillips and Rich Cando led 
the way for PPC while Bart and Richard 
Neff led Techs scoring surge. The difference 
in the game was an error-prone Point Park 
team. Clutch foul shooting from CMU point 
guard Robert Brown down the stretch 
preserved the victory for the Tartans.
Larry Anderson. The game started off very 
slow with neither team able to shoot over 
30% in the first half. In the second half the 
pace picked up as Point Parks Jeff Phillips 
and Rick Condo, and CMUs Richard Neff 
and David Bart led the scoring attacks. The 
difference came down to Point Park errors, 
which allowed the Tartans to pull ahead. 
Clutch foulshooting from Junior guard 
Robert Brown late in the second half helped 
pressure the victory.
The Tartans opener Friday night against 
Le Roche College featured the three prong
ed attack of Bart, Sophomore center Hart 
Coleman, and sixth man senior forward Ray 
Brennan, who combined for 58 out of
to W&J running back A.J. Pagano. Pater
chak lost out in the defensive voting by one 
vote to defensive end Orlando Williams of 
W&J. Williams did next to nothing in the 
game between the two teams.
Second team honors went to comerback 
Mike Lavalle, defensive tackle Ken Harris, 
and center Mark Brado. Honorable Mention 
players include Richards, comerback Joe 
Orlowski, strong safety Brad Sherwin, 
linebacker Ron Orie, and defensive tackle 
Tony Mozelelski.
The Tartans finished the year 8-1, while 
the Sea Gulls (10-1) go on to play Gettysburg 
College (10-0-1) in the second round.
Two final notes: an incorrect score was 
given in last weeks The Tartan. Augustana 
did indeed lose, but it was the wrong 
Augustana. Augustana of South Dakota fell 
to Mankato State, 25-27, while Augustana 
of Illinois, Division Ills top ranked team, 
was idle. They won this weekend in the first 
round, beating Albion 24-10.
And, as a member of The Tartan and the 
WRCT announcing team, I would like to 
personally thank Head Coach Chuck Klausing, trainer Mark Keppler, and the rest of 
the players, coaches, and staff of the 
Carnegie-Mellon football team for welcom
ing John Friedmann, Neil Jordan and I on 
their trip to Salisbury. They made us feel 
welcomed, and played great football all 
season, while giving us a lot of very bright 
moments. A special thanks to Athletic Direc
tor Jim Banner for helping us with ac
comodations, and to Sports Information 
Director Bruce Gerson, who has been nam
ed unanimous winner of the first annual 
Tartan Sports Information Director of the 
year. Bruce should be working at a school 
with much more recognition as far as sports 
are concerned. He is too good to be in Divi
sion III. He has put up with us all season, 
and has been a good friend as well as a last 
minute Sunday saviour. Thanks, Bruce: on 
we go to basketball.
By STEW LEVINE
Special to the Tartan
The mens basketball Tartans started the 
1985-86 season on an up note this weekend 
by winning the third annual Big Heart In
vitational with victories over La Roche Col
lege, 76-71, and Point Park College, 62-57. 
The Tartans were led by WRCT Player-ofthe-game for both nights, Junior guard 
David Bart. Bart was the catalyst of the Tar
tan offense in both setting up the Tartans 
as playmaker, and in leading the Tartans in 
scoring.
The championship game matched
ho^ps
Tartan Basketball during the Big Heart" tournament
photo by Olve Peersen
All-American tackle Robert Butts.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 26, 1985
Skoal Player of the game: Mike Hensel
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Although the Tartans lost their playoff 
game versus Salisbury State College on 
Saturday, CMU quarterback Mike Hensel 
still had a game worth remembering. It was 
Hensels passing that keyed the CMU offen
sive attack and kept the team in the game 
until the final minutes of the fourth quarter.
Hensel was also responsible for all three 
CMU touchdowns, one of which was his most 
spectacular pass of the game. At 4:53 in the 
first quarter, with Salisbui^r leading 7-0, he 
hit tight end Don Fleming with a 56 yard 
bomb. Hensels passing yardage would have 
been over 400 yards if a 33 yard pass to Mike 
Minjock hadnt been called back due to a 
pair of CMU penalties. In fact, that 4th and 
10 pass, with two minutes left in the contest, 
might have set up a Tartan win as it would 
have given the them a first down on the 
Salisbury two yard-line.
Mike Hensel also overshadowed the 
highly-touted Rob Disbennett, the Salisbury 
quarterback who set an NCAA record for 
the highest completion percentage in a game 
(.900), ironically, versus Carnegie-Mellon in 
the first round of the 1983 NCAA Division 
III playoffs. While Disbennet did have a 
higher completion percentage, he pass
ed only 16 times, completing ten of those 
passes for 90 yards. Disbennetts longest pass 
was 18 yards versus 56 for Hensel. He had 
a personal high of 368 yards passing, com
pleting 27 of 45 passes for a .600 comple
tion percentage. His passing yardage was 
over 1/3 of his regular season total, as was 
his number of attempts (45) and comple
tions (27).
The CMU quarterback was also the 
rushing leader, netting 64 yards compared 
to Tim Denemeades 62. He rushed 11 times, 
averaging 5.8 yards per carry. That com
pares favorably to his season average of 3.3.
Perhaps one reason for Hensels success is 
the CMU receiving core. Hensels favorite ap
pears to be wide receiver Dave Richards, 
who had eight catches for 134 yards versus 
Salisbury, but he also often throws to tight 
ends Don Fleming, Mike Behling, and Tim 
Kelly.
Although only a junior, Mike seems to have 
achieved premier status in Division III foot
ball. He was named the Presidents Athletic 
Conference Offensive Player of the Year for 
1985, and may be in line for post-season 
honors.
Mike Hensel 
vs Salisbury State
Completed Passes27
Interceptions1
Completion Percentage600
Yards368
Touchdowns3
Longest Pass56
Rushes11
Rushing Yards Gained68
Rushing Yards Lost4
Net Rushing Yardage64
Longest Rush12
Total Yardage432Player of the game, quarterback Mike Hensel on the line of scrimmage against Bucknell
pllr*
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

November 26, 1985The TartanPage 17
Women's Hoop
By BONNIE JO-JO JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
The womens basketball team, under the 
direction of Coach Gerri Seidl, opened their 
85-86 season against St. Vincents College. 
St. Vincents, last years conference cham
pions, defeated the Lady Tartans 89-51.
CMU was playing with an exceptionally 
young starting team comprised of four 
freshmen and one sophomore. Lisa Lightner 
and Beth Virgin, both freshmen, started as 
guards along with fellow first year players 
Patty Sparrow and Aimee Reber as forwards. 
Reber was the games second highest scorer 
with 11 points and 13 rebounds. Top scorer 
was sophomore center Monica Zalevsky with 
15 points and 14 rebounds.
Coach Seidl sighted the team as having 
basically two areas in need of improvement. 
They need to work on their field goal 
percentage which in this game was a shaky 
26 percent. St. Vincents managed to sink 
48.6% of their shots and a staggering 95% 
of their free-throws.
The second problem was with turnovers. 
The team allowed St. Vincents a lot of op
portunities with poor passing and coordina
tion. The team needs to get used to each 
other. We had 32 turnovers from mostly bad 
passes. Coach Seidl commented. The game 
was a little more physical than they are us
ed to in high school. They have to get used 
to each other and to college level play. I am 
pleased with our half-court defense, but our 
fast-breaks need work. she added.
I know we can do much better than this. 
Playing the conference champs in your 
opening game of the season is pretty tough, 
but I think we can use it as a learning ex
perience.
CMU TARTANS
1985 Men's Varsity Basketball Schedule
Nov. 22-CMUs Dig Head"
23-HTournament (Point Park
College, LaRoche College I
Pitt-Johnstown)
Nov. 26-APenn State-Dehrend
Nov. 30-HAllegheny College
Dec. 3-APitt-Johnstown
Dec. 7-HMuskingum College
lao. 4-ADenison University
Jan. 8-AWashington & Jefferson
College
Ian. 11 HGrove City College
Jan. 15-HJohn Carroll University
Jan. 18-AHiram College
Jan. 22-AThiel College
Jan. 29-HDethany College
Feb. 1-AGrove City College
Feb. 5-HWashington & Jefferson
College
Feb. 8-HHiram College
Feb. 10-AMarietta College
Feb. 12-AJohn Carroll University
Feb. 18-HThiel College
Feb. 21ABethany College
7 & 9 pm 
143pm
8:00 pm 
2:00 pm 
8:00 pm 
2:00 pm 
2:00 pm
2:00 pm 
8:00 pm 
8:00 pm 
8:00 pm 
8:00 pm 
8:00 pm
2:00 pm
8:00 pm 
0:00 pm 
8:00 pm
Head Coach: Larry Anderson 
Athletic Director: Jim Banner
IM Report
Attention all IM commissioners, please 
turn in all team rosters to the IM office as 
soon as your sport is completed. Thank you.
The team captains in IM Football have 
voted on their Major League All-Star foot
ball team.
On offense: Quarterback; Rick
Trombetta Pika, Center; Rick Ferrer  
Pika, Blocking Backs; Tom Gross Beta A, 
Tom Wickham Pika, Wide Receivers; 
Richie Hoyland Beta A, Joe 
Mancuso  Pika.
For Defense: Rushers; Tom Wickham  
Pika, Rob Cortazzo Beta A, Middle 
Linebacker; Rick Ferrer Pika. Comer - 
backs; Dan Serrae Beta A, Jay Angelo  
ATO, Safety; Dave Bart Pika.
In Team Volleyball, for the women, the 
Orange Dots defeated the Mankillers to take 
the Womens League championships.
In the majors, the Spychos won the 
League championship, and the intermediate 
title went to I TAPPA KEG when they 
defeated DU-1.
The final entry date for IM Basketball is 
January 9. Start to get your team lined up 
now.
Campus champions DTD defeated TX, 
winner of the minor leagues, for the AllSchool Water Polo title.
In IM Soccer, Real Mellon leads the ma
jors followed by Kappa Sigma and DU-A. 
The Intermediates are lead by Chesga-1, 
KDA and the Fourth Floor, respectively.
TD-Phi is tied in the minors for first place 
with AFROTC, Green, and CIA. Yo Mark! 
Get well soon.
The next meeting will be held December
5 at 12:30 p.m. in Gym room 101.
As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 (412)687-1112
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care
CMC imcui CK5L&.
WEDNESDAYS^ =
anytime 12:00 to 2:00 
in Salads Plus 
EVERYONE WELCOME
Funded by Activities Fee
SHADYSIDE 
APARTMENTS
The management invites the faculty 
members, graduate students and visiting 
associates to visit and inspect our two 
bedroom and one bedroom apartment 
that are available immediately.
The very best location in Shadyside 
Security buildings
Public transportation is right at the door 
Laundry facilities and storage area on premises 
Private parking and garages 
Furnished apartments available
Please call 4414444 for your appoint
ment to view our apartments.
CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT 
5405 FIFTH AVE 
PGH, PA 15232 
412-411-4444

---------------------------------------------------

The ART Card eliminates fumbling wHh coins 
and hassling aver bills.
The AT&T Card. The fast, easy way 
to call long distance- from anywhere 
to anywhere, anytime. The AT&T Card makes 
keeping in touch with friends and family a lot more 
convenient when youre at school.
You'll be able to get through on almost any public 
phoneon campus or offwithout bothering with 
coins. And you ll actually pay up to 50# less than for 
AT&T collect, third-party or coin state-to-state calls.
In fact, for most calls, it's the lowest rate next to 
direct dialing. And there's no charge to order the 
Card; no minimum usage fee.
You can also use your card to make calls from 
other peoples rooms: the charge will show up on your
bill, not theirs. No need to call collect or charge it to a 
third party.
You'll also eliminate a lot of hassle if you share a 
phone with roommates. With the AT&T Card, you'll 
get your own separate monthly bill itemizing only 
your calls. You'll pay more per call than if you dialed 
directbut you'll save a lot of headaches trying to 
figure out who owes what.
As you can see, the AT&T Card eliminates all 
kinds of hassles. And you can get one whether or not 
you have a phone in your own name. Put The Eliminator 
to work for you. Sign up for your AT&T Card by com
pleting and mailing the attached application. For more 
information call toll free 1 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 4589.

---------------------------------------------------

Complete and mail to: The AT&T Card, College Program, 
P.O. Box 5362, Cincinnati, OH 45201- 5362
Pleose Print___________________________________APPLICANT INFORMATION
Applicants Full Name (Last, First, Middle)Date of BirthSocial SecuVity Number
Street Address (college)Apt#CityStateZip Code
Telephone Number (college)
( )
How long at address 
yrs.mos.
Number of Dependents 
Including Spouse
College Telephone is in
? own name ? roommates name ? spouses name ? do not have a phone in my room ? Other
Name of Parent/GuardianAddressCityStateZip CodeParent/Guardian Telephone No.
( )
Are you a
U.S. Citizen? ? Yes ? No
Citizenship
COLLEGE AND EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION
College NameStudent Status
? Full Time ? Fr DJr ? Grad
? Part-Time ? Soph ? Sr
MajorGraduation Date Degree: ? Associate Degree
? Bachelor
? Graduate
Student Housing Monthly Housing
? Dorm ? Rent-House/Apt ? Own ? Parents * Payment
? Fraternitv/Sororitv fl Relatives Other $
Present Employer Present PositionHow long? Monthly Income
F rom Present Jobyrs. mos.
Source of Other Income ? Grant, Scholarship 
(check any which apply) ? Summer Job 
? Allowance 
Fl Other (identify}
Annual Amount 
of Other Income 
$ ..................
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Credit references (include charge accounts, installment contracts, finance co., credit cards, rent, etc.). 
Give complete list of all amounts owing.
Name of Creditor City/State Type of Account
Monthly
PaymentsBalance Due
$$
$$
$$
Student Loan Financed by$$
Auto/Motorcycle (Yr. & Model) Financed by$$
Other Obligations$$
? Checking ? Both Checking
? Savings & Savings
Bank Name City State
? Checking ? Both Checking
? Savings & Savings
Bank Name City State
ADDRESS WHERE YOU WANT BlLL MAILED (card will be mailed to this address
Address Box #City/State ZipPhone where you may be reached
( )
I agree to pay for charges to the account in accordance with the terms of the applicable tariffs as explained in the AT&T Card Account Agreement which 
AT&T will send me when my application is approved. I understand that my AT&T Card Account is subject to a maximum monthly usage limit of $100. I 
understand that once the monthly usage limit is reached, my AT&T Card will be deactivated until payment Ts received.
I am aware that information gathered about me will be assessed to determine my eligibility for the AT&T Card Account. If I ask, I will be told whether or 
not consumer reports on me were requested and the names and addresses of the credit bureau that provided the reports. I am aware that I must notify 
AT&T of any address changes. *
SIGNATURE: X--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Date
Note: In order to be considered for an AT&T Card, you must complete and sign this application. 
Omission of any of the information requested in this application may be grounds for denial.
AT&T
? j I The right choice.
 1985 AT&T Communications
________________________FOR RESEARCH ONLY_____________________
During an average month how much do you spend on long distance 
telephone calls to places outside your area code?------------------------

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 26, 1985
The Beautiful Eyes Contest Results:
PREGNANT?
Call Genesis. Let's talk about 
your options 
HOTLINE (412) 731-2420 
PRENANCY TESTING-free 
Greater Pittsburgh Area 
Caring and confidential informa
tion, counseling, housing, and 
related services.
Genesis of Pittsburgh Inc.
Crisis Pregnancy 
Services
CARNEGIE-MELLON 
SKIERS!
Join 2000 other 
college students for a 
Winterbreak skifest at 
Killington  from $188
(00) 368-2006 TOLL FREE
we cany complete line o products;
VEB0JS  TCI * SEBASTIAN*
Rcncm
T <' MON.-FBI.9w9 L6W1S SAT. 9 TO 5
815 S. Aiken Ave * Shadysiie
661' 4063 ,
lewis* coupon
^1.00 OFF PURCHASE 
OF #S00 OB MORE
Expires 12/51/85 3
Total Amount Raised: $132.52 
Donated to The Blind Foundation
TOP 5 WINNERS:
#2 Ric Wade $18.47 
A Phi O
#3 Teri Breier $18.46 
A Phi O
#4 Jennifer McCabe $7.37 
S.A.S. (Struggling Actresses Society)
#5 Aaron Lahmann $6.28 
Save the Children
Special Thanks to APhiO and The Tartan for all 
their support to Delta Gamma.
THIS BINTS FOR YOU.
#1 Anonymous $22.60 
A Phi O
PICK UP A PARTY

---------------------------------------------------

Tv.
Scotland Yard 
Open
Thursday, Friday, Saturday 
7 p.m.2 a.m.
(Closed Thanksgiving Weekend)
Interested in
Performing at 
Scotland Yard?

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Thanks Andy?
Yesterday, November 25, marked the 150th anniver
sary of the birthday of Andrew Carnegie. Very few peo
ple agree about the kind of man Carnegie really was. 
Some think of him as a philanthropist, giving away all 
his money to libraries, institutions and other causes. 
Others remember him as the ruthless businessman who 
vacationed in Scotland while bloody battles took place 
at Homestead Steel right here in Pittsburgh.
For now, let us remember Carnegie as the man who 
founded Carnegie Technical Schools in 1900, the foun
dation around which Carnegie-Mellon University was 
built. The first president was Arthur Arton Hamerschlag, 
the man who now has two buildings named after him 
on the campus.
Carnegie always said that he wanted to be a wellrounded person. Having multitudes of money wasnt 
enough for him: He wanted to join the intellectual elite. 
Yet when he founded a school, it was strictly a technical 
school. This is a hypocrisy that may exist 85 years later, 
at what is now called Carnegie-Mellon University.
Though Carnegie-Mellon, or Carnegie Mellon, as it 
will now be known, is trying very hard to be a university 
in the mold of Harvard, Yale and other schools known 
as liberal arts as well as technical schools, most will agree 
that the focus here is still, as it was 85 years ago, on the 
technical aspects of education. Computers are the most 
obvious example of the imbalance. More money goes into 
the technical programs, and all students are required 
to take computers. Do electrical engineers know anything 
about the history of Western Civilization? No. Sometimes 
its hard to tell who gets the short end at 
Carnegie - Mellon.
A professional university with as difficult a program 
as Carnegie-Mellons will be hard pressed to have wellrounded students. The job market will be opened to most 
of us when we leave here, but will we have gotten the 
most possible out of a four-year college experience.
How many students know that almost every week there 
is a recital of some sort in the Alumni Concert Hall in 
the College of Fine Arts Building? What percentage of 
students has ever stepped foot in The Forbes Gallery? 
The reverse is also true. How many fine arts or writing 
majors could care less what chemicals are used to make 
certain products, or how a circuit works? Very few.
The point is this: Good or bad, we are not, for the 
most part, turning out intellectuals--people who can con
verse with anyone about a variety of subjects. This is not 
to say we will not be successes in our careers; on the con
trary, most of us will. This is what Carnegie was too: a 
success at his craft but not very knowledgeable in many 
other areas.
We are not qualified to say how a university should 
be run, or what kind of person we should be. But, as 
we end yet another semester that everyone wants to get 
done with, we ask you, the students, faculty and staff 
of Camegie-Mellon to ponder the ideas we bring up here. 
Try to take advantage of what you have around you here. 
Every once in a while sit back and look around. Instead 
of memorizing the formulas for your next quiz, try to 
learn. Education, not regurgitation, is the hopeful goal 
of the university. It is unfortunate some professors do not 
understand this.
Carnegie, no matter what his true demeanor and per
sonality were, understood what education meant. We 
hope that you create your own meaning; sit down and 
think about it some time. It may do you a world of good, 
and you may learn something too.
MSMSSMAfy/
Letters:
Society pays for disrespect of life
Editor:
There was a sign on the door, 
Presented by SDC. In an empty 
room a naked woman is hanging 
from straps that are tied around 
her wrists. She is screaming and 
writhing in pain. Two hooded 
men are abusing and torturing 
her. She is screaming.. . she is act
ing. The men are whipping her, 
beating her.. . they too are acting. 
This is the beginning of the movie 
that was shown by SDC in the 
Morewood Gardens television 
room on Wednesday, November 7, 
at 7, 9 and 11 p.m.
I, not having much time for 
television, went to watch the 11:00 
news and this is what was show
ing instead. The movie was 
Videodrone and the scene just^. 
described was part of a video the 
movies porn dealer was obsessed 
with possessing. He believed that 
pornography wasnt socially 
detrimental, but a social service. 
Better on television than on the 
streets. His description of that 
scene was its creative, its art, its 
a masterpiece, the new wave of 
porn entertainment, its what
peoples sexual fantasies really 
are.
Do people know what porn
ography really is? Dirty pictures 
and photographs? Sorry, its much 
more! Its dehumanizing. If that 
video had been of two men 
beating a trapped animal, people 
would alert the animal humane 
society. Yet you place a human be
ing in that same situation and its 
art. Its entertainmant, self ex
pression, sexually stimulating. 
People pay to see this! They laugh, 
they cheer, and they emotionally 
participate in scenes depicting 
(quite explicitly) sexual, physical, 
and emotional torture.
As a society we take moral 
stances. We place labels on what 
is good and what is bad. We make 
moral, ethical decisions on social 
activity. Something deemed 
socially bad is an act that strips 
people of their dignitytheir 
rights as human beings. (And the 
force behind this socially bad act 
is to put awayseparated from 
society so that it can no longer 
hurt society). Pornography does 
this. It hurts and degrades people.
It uses them as and leaves them 
no dignity, not even that shown to 
an animal. And we sit and 
watch or we get up and leave. 
We call this entertainment, 
stimulatingor we close our eyes 
so that we do not see. Is that the. 
way it has to be?
As a freshman, I remember sit
ting in history class and asking 
what the purpose was of studying 
the history of civilized societies. 
My instructors response was that 
we try and detect a pattern in 
social activity so that we might 
learn frpm it. I think we are all 
familiar with the most civilized 
society (during its reign) whose 
sport, entertainment, stimulation 
was to pit man against man.. .un
til one died, or even man against 
beast. . .until one was devoured. 
This drew crowds, people 
cheered, and Rome fell.
SDCs sign said FREE-FREEFREE. Correction: society
ultimately pays for its disrespect of 
human life.
Stephanie Claudy
Industrial Design 87
SAA explains Cyert's ironies
Editor:
During the 83 spring semester, 
a 13% tuition hike was announc
ed by the administration  
student opposition was largely ig
nored. Three semesters ago, the 
acquisition of the SEI was 
publicized campus attitude has 
often been referred to as largely 
supportive of the institiute  
many would disagree.
Our student handbook reads it 
is important for administrative of
ficers to maintain a close ex
change of views with faculty and 
students. As for the trustees, they 
have a particular responsibility to 
mediate between the university
community and the larger socie
ty which the University serves. 
Thus the trustees must be alert to 
the needs of the University, and 
must be willing and able to ex
plain and defend the Universitys 
values, goals, and procedures.
Students Against Apartheid 
believes that it is time for the ad
ministration to put into practice 
the policies it upholds in theory; 
not solely in the case of divest
ment, but concerning any future 
decisions which effect the univer
sity as a whole.
Our petition urging divestment 
of our funds in companies involv
ed in South Africa has recieved
nearly 1500 signatures. President 
Cyert has told a member of SAA 
that this number is insignificant. 
The condescending rhetoric of 
President Cyert concerning divest
ment is unbeleivable. His argu
ment (which hasnt changed in re
cent years despite supported 
evidence against it) goes 
somethiong like this: (l)We will 
not use moral criteria in our in
vestment portfolio because we 
would not know whose standards 
to use (2) even if we wanted to 
divest, the blacks (he talked to 2) 
in S. Africa dont want us to (3) 
even if they wanted us to, it would 0 
continued on page 24

---------------------------------------------------

November 26, 1985-The Tartan-Page 23
SAA wants administration policies upheld
continued from page 22
have no effect and (4) apartheid is dead 
anyway.
We can not believe that the students, as 
well as the faculty are placated by this 
rhetoric. To deny the fact that our funds in 
South Africa do not support the white 
government, and hence make a political 
statement is ridiculous. His discussion with 
black leaders  a black business man and 
an organizer of Operation Hungerwho 
oppose divestment holds little weight. There 
are millions of blacks asking us to divest, 
along with legitimate political leaders like 
Nelson Mandela, Bishop Tutu, Oliver Tambo as well as organizations like Southern 
African States (SADCC) and the South 
African student organization (SASO) and 
others.
President Cyert has told our organization 
that if apartheid is not dismantled within 
a year to 18 months, he would consider total 
divestment. It is ironic, that along with this 
statement, he can continually assert an op
posite truth; that our companies in South 
Africa have little force and that we must 
separate moral criteria from economic ones.
(The utility of divestment is a harder
issue, one we have addressed in a previous 
letter, and one which must be taken in the 
political context of supporting the struggle 
of the blacks in divesting.)
That the president of a university like 
CMU can openly make a comment that 
aparhtheid is dead is horrific. If one must 
rely upon hard facts then the repeals of 
the sex laws are a drop in the bucket. A re
cent increase in violence in South Africa 
marks an increasingly oppressive govern
ment, certainly not towards a more 
democratic one. During an H&SS 
distinguished lecture series, an an
thropologist Vincent Crapanzano conclud
ed that he saw little hope that the South 
Africans would abolish its apartheid system. 
If anything, it is pulling towards a more con
servative policy because it feels it is victimiz
ed both from within as well as without i.e. 
foreign economic pressure.
As students, how can we support the ad
ministrations viewpoint based either on a 
strategic plan to justify 30% of our stock in 
desirable companies (even though President 
Cyert has assured us that it would not harm 
our portfolio if we were to divest) or plain
Groundless accusations invalid
Editor:
On Monday, Nov. 18, in the Adamson 
Wing, the Students for Choice presented the 
movie, The Silent Scream, along with a 
video of a Planned Parenthood response. 
One of the student organizers of the event 
chose to address some remarks to the audi
ence. Apparently considering herself among 
sympathizers (the event had been billed as 
a pro-choice presentation), she freely 
dispensed her opinion on certain medical 
questions, without substantiation; liberally 
heaped contempt on The Silent Scream 
and on its narrator, Dr. Nathanson (to the 
point of gesticulating during the screening; 
and made charges against Nathanson that 
she was unable to defend, when questioned 
by members of the audience. When the 
questions persisted, she declared this was 
her show and non-sympathizers could go
to their own event the following evening.
Obviously, groundless accusations have no 
place where issues are being seriously con
sidered, and they are particularly innappropriate in a university setting. More 
disturbing, however, is the way this discredits 
the pro-choice side by making it appear as 
biased and as contemptuous of truth as the 
pro-lifers who persist in speaking of 
screams, agony, and agitation, when the 
early fetus in fact is not developed enough 
for these sensations to be possible.
It would have been effective and sufficient 
for the pro-choicers on November 18 to ob
jectively present the fradulent Silent 
Scream and the Planned Parenthood video 
response.
Uriel Wittenberg 
Doctorial student, SUPA.
The fist of the military
By Jim Miller 
A column like this one is easily 
misunderstood. So, without great confidence 
that I can avoid such misunderstanding let 
me begin, nevertheless, by stating the 
following.
First, as an undergraduate 
\student I was a member of Air 
vV: Force ROTC for three and one 
half years. It was an experience which I con
tinue to value and except for changes in Air 
Force policy I would likely have served a 
number of years as an Air Force Chaplain.
Second, in principle, I believe that an 
ROTC-type program for training military 
leaders is a preferable one for two reasons: 
because many leaders so trained will not be 
career military professionals (they will be 
reserve officers instead and so have strong 
life and career commitments outside of the 
military) and because such training can oc
cur within an academic environment which 
promotes critical inquiry and sensitivity to 
a plurality of values.
Having said these two things, however, I 
want to make a few comments stimulated by 
the article, R.O.T.C.: More than meets the 
eye, which appeared in the 5 November 
issue of The Tartan. The concern I have is 
with the tone and texture of the article 
rather than its content per se. That an 
ROTC program can be an academicly at
tractive alternative to contemporary students 
s hardly a debatable point in this day of 
careerism. However, the impression conveyed
Corrtcwm 
An error wm made in last week* > page 17 
tporu article concerning the Division III 
nlavoff. The Maternent "... and number one 
ranked Augimana of Illinois lost for the fir 
time in four or fire seasons is incorrect. It 
should be Augustana of South Dakota.
ignorance? If you would like to support the reprint our petition (for those of you who 
campaign for divestment of CMUs stock in have already signed thank you). Lets be 
South African companies, Students Against heard this time.
Apartheid has reserved space in this issue to Students Against Apartheid
Freedom not taken for granted
Edit^t;
by the article that military service is simply 
a career path like any other is an erroneous 
one. The article reveals a fundamental 
mistake in perception. It is a bit like saying 
that the space shuttle is just another aircraft 
or, perhaps more to the point, that a gun 
is juist another means to close a debate.
By focusing, as the article does, on adven
ture, commaraderie, academic financial 
support, job opportunities and career 
stability it avoids what is central to the 
choice of a military career: namely, that the 
primary function of a military profession is 
the use of deadly force to protect and pro
mote national interests. To choose a military 
career is to choose to put on the gauntlet and 
to take up the sword.
It seems self evident that we journey in a 
world where human beings oppress and 
harm one another in the name of selfinterest. In such a world it is necessary to 
have social agents who, acting on behalf of 
the society as a whole, enforce (with the 
privilege of the the use of deadly force) the 
laws which are intended to insure justice.
continued on page 24
I am v/riting in response to Tom 
Cobourns letter in the November 19 issue 
of The Tartar. Mr Coboum intended to 
argue three major positions in his letter: that 
Americans surrender few vital freedoms 
when they serve in the military, that 
American foreign policy has sought always 
to bolster or extend freedom throughout the 
world, and that people like Norbert 
Schindler undermine those efforts at home 
and abroad by misunderstanding that very 
freedom which they enjoy as Americans. I 
think that it is important to examine each 
of these positions in order to better ap
preciate the efforts of the many people who 
criticize American policies in order that we 
may have a more just and democratic na
tion and world.
Mr Cobourn argued that Americans ser
ving in the military surrender some of the 
vital rights that the Constitution guarantees 
to other Americans, but he considered them 
to be really only minor concessionsmuch 
like those that members of an orchestra 
make in order to perform in concert. He fur
ther posited that Armed Services personnel 
practice discipline, not mindless, dogmatic 
obedience. We can assume, I think, that 
Mr. Coboum did not intend to use the ox
ymoron dogmatic obedience, but meant 
to convey the notion of mindless obe
dience. Surely those members of the Arm
ed Services do practice obedience, and just 
as surely their state of mind is of little im
port. Senior officers do not ask junior of
ficers (the level ROTC graduates will first 
asssume) to evaluate orders handed down to 
determine whether or not to obey them. 
These junior officers do not ask enlisted men 
and women to pass judgement of the orders 
handed down to them. Armed Service per
sonnel are trained to kill people, but are not 
asked to assess for themselves who those peo
ple will be. In times of war (American forces 
have been in conflicts in eight of the nine 
decades so far this century), American ser
vice personnel cannot opt to leave dangerous 
situations. Comparing the restrictions and 
constrictions of service in the Armed Forces 
with the obligations of a musician to an or
chestra distorts the nature of military ser
vice. It is important to recognize that ROTC 
graduates will experience many serious and 
profound restrictions of freedoms that other 
Americans will continue to enjoy. More im
portantly, these graduates may be told to 
deny other people in other nations those 
freedoms as well.
It is true that Franklin Roosevelt iden
tified- the preservation of the four 
freedoms in 1941. But it does not follow 
that all our foreign policy endeavors, all our
military involvements, or even all of our 
World War II activities reflected those no
ble ideals. Mr. Schindler was correct to 
point out that we did not fight for freedom 
of religion, freedom from want, freedom of 
speech, and freedom from fear in Vietnam. 
We are not now pursuing those aims in 
Nicaragua, Guatamala, Chile, South Korea, 
and the Phillipines. We most assuredly are 
not urging the South African government 
to honor these ideals today. We ought to 
recognize that it has been, and continues to 
be, the policy of this nation to ally itself with 
foreign governments which have no inten
tions of granting these freedoms to their 
people.
Mr. Coboums final point, that those 
citizens who recognize American shortcom
ings and urge that they be corrected readi
ly surrender their freedom, misses the 
message that these people strive to convey. 
These Americans do not urge others to sur
render their freedoms. They urge the 
American government to respect those 
freedoms at home and to extend those 
freedoms we all cherish to other people as 
well. They ask that the Unites States not give 
guns and bullets to Salvadoran death squads 
in the hope that the El Salvadoran people 
may live with freedom from fear. They ask 
that the Unites States not prop up Ferdinand 
Marcos in the Phillipines so that the Filipino 
people may have freedom of speech. The 
Norbert Schindlers throughout America do 
not take their freedom for granted Mr. 
Coboum, they are perhaps freedoms most 
vigilant guardians of all of us.
Sharon Trusilo 
Graduate Student in History 
Tim Kelly 
Graduate Student in History 
Steve Tripp 
Graduate Student in History 
Perry Bush 
Graduate Student in History
Thelartan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor...........Mohan Embar
Business Manager ... John Friedmann
News Editor........................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor ...Anthony Datri 
Features Editor... Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor........Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor ..............Michele Keane
Art Manager..................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager......................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager .. Kathryn Sitter 
ACME Director ..................Vijay Reddy
1  Editorial Asst...............Albrecht PowellOpinion JrOllCy Asst. News Editor..........Carolyn Kelly
Asst. Art Manager.........Mark Kissner
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Asst. Production Manager Don Gamble 
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2115. Mailing address: 
Skibo 105, Student Activities, CamegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15215. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanNovember 26, 1985
ROTC article promotional, but not insightful
continued from page 23
Thus, domesticly we have police.
Such a rationale can also be used to justify 
the military but here there is a vital dif
ference. There is virtually no system of law 
which is taken to be binding upon all the 
nations of the globe. Such a system would 
require the surrender of a degree of national 
sovereignty which as yet the nations have 
been unwilling to relinquish. Thus, unlike 
domestic police, the military do not enforce 
an international system of law and justice 
but instead serve the more parochial intersests and values of a particular nation.
Some years ago there was a character in 
the Lil Abner comic strip named General 
Bullmoose who was fond of saying, Whats 
good for Bullmoose is good for America. 
There are today, I suppose, many around us 
who would say, Whats good for America 
is good for the world. Yet just as the ac
curacy of the first judgment is questionable 
so also is that of the latter. If even America 
can not be assured of representing the 
legitimate interests and aspirations of every
other nation on earth then the American 
military must always be seen as functioning 
in support of ends which inevitably fall short 
of the demands of global justice demands.
It is important to understand that these 
observations are not to be taken as a con
demnation of military service. I do believe 
that such service is both necessary and 
morally justifiable. But I also strenuously ob
ject to efforts which obscure or trivialize the 
moral ambiguity of such service and the 
failure to acknowleddge that the pursuit of 
a military career is morally perplexing and 
a challenge for personal responsibility.
The hierarchical structure of the military 
(it is neither a democratic nor a represen
tative structure) is relatively efficient in terms 
of mobilizing personnel and materiel. But 
such a structure also concentrates respon
sibility at the top and promotes a weaken
ing of individual judgment at the lower levels 
under the rubric of the duty to obey 
superiors. To be sure the uniform code of 
military justice provides means by which an 
individual can justifiably refrain from obey
ing the order of a superior. But this formal 
provision for individual responsibility tends 
to be swallowed up in a pervasive ethos of 
hierarchical discipline.
Todays American military forces rely 
upon voluntary enlistment as the source of 
their personnel. It is only reasonable that 
they would try to make a military career ap
pear as attractive as possible. The advertis
ing community has provided appealing im
ages to play upon the interests and aspira
tions of contemporary college students: op
portunities to have a good time... (oppor
tunities to) be put in charge of eight to 60 
people right away... (opportunities to) be 
working on top notch government projects 
that have large government budgets... 
benefits (that) are excellent... great oppor
tunits for advancement... (opportunits 
for) a special kind of friendship... (eligibili
ty) for special scholarships...(so that) many 
of them have their entire education paid 
for... even spending money.
After reading The Tartan article I began 
to wonder why everyone did not rush right
out and sign up. The article was an effec
tive piece of promotional material. It is a pi
ty, however, that it was not a bit more 
insightful.
Yes, the military is a viable career path in 
world in which nation strives against nation 
and global justice is little more than a 
tenuous hope. But there is an old saying: To 
whom much is given, much is also expected.
Into the hands of the military we have 
placed the ultimate means for the destruc
tion of the world; even penultimately the 
guantleted fist of their conventional 
weaponry represents coercive force unknown 
in previous human history. As such we, all 
of us both military and civilian alike, can 
ill afford to ignore the perilous responsibili
ty which such bestowal entails. Clothing the 
fist of steel in Gucci gloves may make it more 
attractive. But to the extent that such out- * 
ward clothing obscures the moral 
significance of the innner reality, just to that 
extent our common life is made more 
precarious.
OF YOUR FUTURE.
Whether you're on the bridge of 
a 200-million-dollar Navy 
destroyer, an of ike r on a nuclear 
sub, or piloting a Navy F-14 
Tomcat, you'll be in charge. And 
moving up fast.
At 22. you'll be well on your 
wav in a career that provides the
and satisfaction you've always 
dreamed of.
And as a Navy officer, you 
be in ;i position of decision
making authority. With expert 
management and technical 
training behind you t<> help \ oi 
get thejob done right
The rewards mi* right. too
An excellent starting salary with 
a chance to earn up to as much as 
&M.(S00 after four years with reg
ular promotions and increases. 
Kven more with bonuses. *
Af ter four years of col lege,
\tu II be on your way. (let there 
fast in the Navy. Set1 your Navy 
recruiter or call 800-327-NAVY.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

November 26, 1985The TartanPage 25
Photos by:
Andy Gillespie, Erik Horn, Jack Poller, and Olve Peersen
Fall '85 I n Review
/I K

---------------------------------------------------


DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student disc ount n ailable
 easily, accessible by bus from CXJlT
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland MusicrCard accepted _ < '.nil aniMjinimeni 682-0616
30% off!
All frames $50.00 and over
Oakland Penn Hills spectacles,
3702 Forbes Ave. 509 Long Rd. $ 
621-4944 731-4080 vlJL 
Offer ends 14 December 1985 
One offer valid per purchase
wnmra
A VTIkirilluiirriinsHIGH TECHNOLOGY
If youve got talent, we have a place for you at Opryland.showpark! or 1986 well produce a dozen 
different musical shows covering the past and pres
ent of Americas favorite music. Were looking for 
over 350 of Americas most talented, dynamic 
young people. Wsll be auditioning SINGERS 
(prepare three selections and bring sheet music in 
the proper key); DANCERS (prepare a routine of 
no more than one minute); CONDUCTORS and 
INSTRUMENTALISTS (most instrumentalists will 
be asked to sight-read first); interviewing STAGE 
MANAGERS; and accepting resumes for TECH
NICIANS. Our winter audition tour will stop in 30 
cities coasMo-coast. Check below for the auditions 
in your area. No appointment is necessary and a 
piano accompanist will be provided.
IN PITTSBURGH
Mi| You dont have to move across the country to pursue a career in advanced 
Bl technology.
Come and meet some of the area's most exciting and fastest growing new 
companies, based in Pittsburgh, offering career opportunities in robotics, 
computer software, CAD/CAM, instrumentation, control systems and many 
other emerging technologies.
Where else can you have access to key personnel from over twenty high 
technology companies at one location?
When and Where
Wednesday, December 4,1985 
10:00 am- 4:00pm 
Skibo Ballroom
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA COLUMBUS. OHIO
Thors. Dec 5.1985 ? 12 00-4:00 p.m Mon .Jan 13.1986 ? 1:00 4:00 p.m. 
Melodu Performing Arts Center Ohio Stale University. Department of Theatre 
121 9th Street. 4th Floor Thurber Theatre
For further information or any dt _ . _ , - . . ____ .
SSSSS=S~. OPyijVMHJSA
2802 Opryfand Dr., Nashville, TN 37214 [1 
(615) 889-6600, ext. 4343, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. ^evl 
CST Monday through Friday M.iSdsnville lennevee
Among the 1985 Jobs Fair participants are companies such as Aerotech, Inc., American 
Ftobot Corporation, Aptech Computer Systems, Black Box Corp., Carnegie Group Inc., 
Computer Specialists. Contraves Goerz Corp., Dravo Engineers, Innovative Systems, 
Lexeme, Mindbank, Redshaw, Renaissance Systems, Sulcus Computer Corp., Unilogic 
Ltd. and Westinghouse Electric Corporation/ Industry Electronics Division.
1085 Jobs Fair - Sponsored by the Pittsburgh High Technology Council and 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Office of Career Services and Placement.
j

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
nnouncements Classifieds
Short Story Contest Open: Creative writers are 
(invited to enter the 1986 Raymond Carver Short 
iStory Contest sponsored by Humboldt State 
[University. The winner will receive a $250 cash 
[prize and publication in Toyon 86, Humboldts 
I literary magazine. Submissions are limited to one 
[unpublished, fictional story, not to exceed 25 
double-spaced pages. Two copies of the 
manuscript should be sent with the authors 
[name, address and title of the story, typed on a 
cover sheet. Writers should also include two self| addressed, stamped envelopes for notification of 
I receipt of manuscript and announcement of win
ners and runners-up. Manuscripts will not be 
returned. The judge for the 1986 Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest is Charles Baxter, 
author and recipient of a National Endowment 
for the Arts (NEA) Grant and a Guggenheim 
Fellowship. The entry deadline is December 1, 
1985. Entry fee is $5 payable to the Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest. All entries should be 
mailed to Carver Contest, c/o Department of 
English, Humboldt State University, Areata, CA 
95521. For more information call (707) 826-3758.
President to have open office hours for
students. Richard M. Cyert will have open of
fice hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, 
in his office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, 
December 2. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary, 
578-2200, to set up an appointment.
Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 through the 
U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call 
1-312-742-1142 ext. 3401-A.
Tired of wasting away free hours typing papers, 
lab report text, cover letters, take-home ex
ams. . .? For professional typing at reasonable 
rates, call Brenda at 621-8145.
Wantedone or two tickets to see Rush, 12/18/85 
@ Civic Arena. I have to see this concert. 
578-8987.
Wantedroommate to share luxury Racquet 
Club apt. Monroeville.$290 (includes member
ship) 856-7248 or 256-2488.
Pittsburgh GuitarsWe buy, sell, & trade used 
and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, Bloomfield, 
across from West Penn Hospital. 621-4733.
Volleyball: Anyone interested in playing a good 
game of doubles or triples give me a call after
7 p.m., Jim 881-0876.
OaklandLarge 2 BR furnished apt. Newly 
remodelled, w/w, equipped kitchen. Quiet street. 
$380/mo. includes all utilities. 795-1313 or 
372-6226.
Neon beer signs, beer mirrors, beer lights, beer 
signs; great for gifts, home bars, dorms, apts. Call 
Dave at 963-8840.
OaklandLarge 3 BR furnished apt. New
carpet, paint. Equipped kitchen. 1st floor, nice 
area. $500/mo. includes all utilities. 795-1313 or 
372-6226.
Needed: Teachers,for jewish religious schools! 
Subjects: Hebrew language, religion, history, 
customs and ceremonies, music, dance, drama, 
etc. For further information call: Dr. Ronald A. 
Brauner, Driector, The Hebrew Institute, 
521-1100.
$60.00 per hundred paid for remailing letters 
from home! Send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope for information/application. Associates, 
Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203
Ruths Pathway for the Contemporary 
WomanBible study on Crisis and Opportuni
ty. Wed. in Nov. 12-12:30 pm, Doherty Hall 2122. 
Run by Lutheran Campus Ministry.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No 
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, PO Box 470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Word Processing/Typing Services! Resumes, 
case studies, term papers, theses. Call 553-2410 
Mon.-Fri. $1 per page.
OVER 50 BRANDS OF AUDIO, VIDEO AND 
CAR STEREO EQUIPMENT. CONTACT HAL 
AT 683-3948 AFTER 6 P.M.
Party supplies for birthdays, weddings, luaus, Xmas parties, New Years parties and much, much 
more. Yes, we even have eyeglasses for your 
hamster and Knuckleman. . . Papermart, 
Morewood Ave. and Baum Blvd. 681-8900. Its 
a nice walk from campus. Decorations, invita
tions, novelties, and fun!
PARTIES, PARTIES, PARTIES: We have 
everything for your party at Papermart. . .over 
10,000 square feet of fun in our Party Super
market. Baum Blvd. at Morewood Ave. 
681-8900. . . stroll down Morewood to a world of 
fun.
Bicycler Alert: If you are interested in bicycl
ing cross country this 86 summer, please contact 
Margot at x4590 as I am looking for companions.
Miscellaneous
College Student Volunteers Needed for the Na
tional Youth Pro-Life Coalitions Thanksgiving 
for Life Convention to be held at the Sheraton 
South Hills on November 29th thru December 
1st. Volunteers will serve as workshop 
moderators, hospitality guides or audio-visual 
aides for a three-hour time slot. Volunteers get 
free registration (which normally costs $15) to the 
entire convention. For more information contact 
Rebecca Marshall at 624-8811 or write to Box 
1291, 3990 5th Ave., Pittsburgh 15213.
Events
26
TuesdayMovies
Now, Voyager, starring Bette 
Davis, Claude Raines, Paul Henreid. About a 
spinster who comes out of her shell and falls in 
love. This is the famous two cigarette film. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Sheer Madness, starring Hanna Schygulla and 
Angela Winkler. Written and directed by 
Margarethe von Trotta. This German film is a 
complex drama of relationships among its three 
primary characters. Olga is a seemingly selfpossessed professor of literature who acts as an 
emotional prop for both her estranged husband 
and her Russian musician lover. Ruth is a woman 
Olga saves from suicide and then befriends. 
Ruths husband, Franz, encourages the two 
womens friendship until he finds he is dependant 
on his wifes own dependency. When his latent 
jealousy explodes, the result is overt madness. 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers at the Fulton Theatre, 
6:30 pm, 8:30 pm.
Music
Faculty Recital. Irene Schreier, piano. Alumni 
Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Sports
Mens Basketball away game against Penn-StateBehrend, 8 pm
Womens Basketball away game against PennState- Behrend, 6 pm
Recreation
Tai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercises. Skibo 12,2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. 8:30 pm to 9 pm. 
Clubs
Pittsburgh Go Group. GO is an ancient orien
tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Student Senate Meeting. Skibo Wherrett Room, 
? pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
' Alloy Effects at Grain and Phase Boundaries,
Presented by Professor Mats Hilbert, Royal In
stitute of Technology, Stockholm, Sweden. A 
Staff Seminar in Metallurgical Engineering and 
Materials Science. Wean Hall 7500, 3 pm. In
formal discussions will be held and refreshments 
served afterwards in Wean Hall 2325.
Learning in Massively Parallel Networks,
presented by Geoffrey Hinton, Associate Pro
fessor of Computer Science. A MCS Seminar in 
Science. Skibo Wherrett Room, 3:45 pm.
Art
Assignment: Childhood. Shown by the 1985 ad
vanced metals class. The Ellis Gallery, 3rd floor 
of the College of Fine Arts.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
December 1 for details.
27
Wednesday
Movies
Lawrence of Arabia, starring 
Peter OToole, Anthony Quinn, Alec Guinness, 
Omar Sharif, Claude Raines, Anthony Quayle. 
An epic film about T.E. Lawrences military 
career during WWI. Exceptional in every way. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sheer Madness, starring Hanna Schygulla and 
Angela Winkler. Written and directed by 
Margarethe von Trotta. This German film is a 
complex drama of relationships among its three 
primary characters. Olga is a seemingly selfpossessed professor of literature who acts as an 
emotional prop for both her estranged husband 
and her Russian musician lover. Ruth is a woman 
Olga saves from suicide and then befriends. 
Ruths husband, Franz, encourages the two 
womens friendship until he finds he is dependant 
on his wifes own dependency. When his latent 
jealousy explodes, the result is overt madness. 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers at the Fulton Theatre, 
6:30 pm, 8:30 pm.
Recreation
La Table Franaise, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
The Hebrew Table. Salads Plus, 12 pm to 2 pm.
Everyone welcome.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Orthodox Christian Fellowship, weekly meeting 
for Bible study and discussions. Skibo 39, 7 pm 
to 8 pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Local Coherence and Improper Priors,
presented by Thomas Armstron, University of 
Maryland, Baltimore County. A Department of 
Statistics Seminar. Adamson Wing, 4 pm.
'V 
Art
Assignment: Childhood. Shown by the 1985 ad
vanced metals class. The Ellis Gallery, 3rd floor 
of the College of Fine Arts.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
December 1 for details.
28
ThursdayMovies
Art
Assignment: Childhood. Shown by the 1985 ad
vanced metals class. The Ellis Gallery, 3rd floor 
of the College of Fine Arts.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
December 1 for details.
Thanksgiving Holiday: No Classes.
29
FridayMovies
Sesame Street Presents: Follow 
that Bird, starring members of the Sesame St. 
gang, Jim Hensons Muppets, Chevy Chase, and 
John Candy. A wild comedy for kids of all ages. 
Rated G. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the 
Year. For more information call 624-4101.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Clubs
CMU Explorer's Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 12,
8 pm. Beginners welcome.
CMU Investment Group, members learn how 
to invest and manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 
6:30 pm. Everyone welcome.
Passage To India, starring Vic
tor Banerjee, Peggy Ashcroft (Oscar Winner), 
Judy Davis, Alec Guiness.A lavish film about the 
clash of two cultures. From E.M. Forsters novel. 
Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10:15 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Secret Ceremony. A Joseph Losey Director Series. 
Carnegie Institutes Museum of Art Theater, 8 
pm. General admission is $3. Admission for 
members, students, and senior citizens is $2.50.
Sheer Madness, starring Hanna Schygulla and 
Angela Winkler. Written and directed by 
Margarethe von Trotta. This German film is a 
complex drama of relationships among its three 
primary characters. Olga is a seemingly selfpossessed professor of literature who acts as an 
emotional prop for both her estranged husband 
and her Russian musician lover. Ruth is a woman 
Olga saves from suicide and then befriends. 
Ruths husband, Franz, encourages the two 
womens friendship until he finds he is dependant 
on his wifes own dependency. When his latent 
jealousy explodes, the result is overt madness. 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers at the Fulton Theatre, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm.
Plays
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say *NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the 
Year. For more information call 624-4101.
Community Events
No Classes.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanNovember 26, 1985
30
Saturday
Movies
Year of the Dragon, starring 
Mickey Rourke, John Lone. A tough-guy cop and 
a young hood square off in Chinatown to decide 
whos top dog. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:40 pm, 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sheer Madness, starring Hanna Schygulla and 
Angela Winkler. Written and directed by 
Margarethe von Trotta. This German film is a 
complex drama of relationships among its three 
primary characters. Olga is a seemingly selfpossessed professor of literature who acts as an 
emotional prop for both her estranged husband 
and her Russian musician lover. Ruth is a woman 
Olga saves from suicide and then befriends. 
Ruths husband, Franz, encourages the two 
womens friendship until he finds he is dependant 
on his wifes own dependency. When his latent 
jealousy explodes, the result is overt madness. 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers at the Fulton Theatre, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm.
Plays
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the 
Year. For more information call 624-4101.
Sports
Mens Basketball away game against Allegheny 
College, 2 pm..
1
Sunday
Movies
A Man for all Seasons, starring Paul 
Scofield, Wendy Hiller, Leo McKern, Robert 
Shaw, Orsen Wells. Winner of six Oscars, this 
film is about Sir Thomas Mores classic rivalry 
with Henry VIII. Scotfields performance is 
outstanding. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Ad
mission $2.95.
Sheer Madness, starring Hanna Schygulla and 
Angela Winkler. Written and directed by 
Margarethe von Trotta. This German film is a 
complex drama of relationships among its three 
primary characters. Olga is a seemingly selfpossessed professor of literature who acts as an 
emotional prop for both her estranged husband 
and her Russian musician lover. Ruth is a woman 
Olga saves from suicide and then befriends. 
Ruths husband, Franz, encourages the two 
womens friendship until he finds he is dependant 
on his wifes own dependency. When his latent 
jealousy explodes, the result is overt madness. 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers at the Fulton Theatre, 6 
pm, 8 pm.
Plays
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the 
Year. For more information call 624-4101.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony, Zdenek Macal conducts 
Beethoven and Prokofief; with guest artist Alexis 
Weissenberg, piano. Heinz Hall, 2:30 pm. For 
more information call 392-4821.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. Sponsored by 
Student Affairs and the Counselling and Student 
Development Center in Morewood Gardens, E 
Tower, x2922. Tutoring: Calculus Pre, I, II, III 
in Porter Hall 126 A; Physics in Porter Hall 126 
B; Chemistry in Porter Hall 225 B; English as 
a second language in Baker Hall 135 B; 
Economics in Porter Hall 226 B; Introduction to 
Computing in Wean Hall 5415; Financial Ac
counting in Porter Hall 226 C; Academic Writing 
Problems in Baker Hall 235 B. 7 pm to 10 pm.
2
Monday
Movies
A Street Car Named Desire, starring 
Marlon Brando, Vivian Leigh (Oscar), Kim 
Hunter (Oscar), Karl Malden (Oscar). A ex
cellent film version of Tennessee Williams play 
about a Southern belle who is destroyed by her
brother-in-law. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Swimming home meet against Westminster Col
lege, 4 pm.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm. 
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sundayt 
December 1 for details.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Camegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com
puter mail to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when > 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
This is the last issue of the The Tartan 
this semester. From all of us at the paper, 
good luck on finals, have a great 
Thanksgiving, and enjoy your Holiday 
break.
Chris Lewis
Editor
CHILDRENS HOSPITAL DRIVE Dec. 2-24
Help raise money for the kids at
Childrens Hospital
KDKA Radio's fundraising 
drive is slatedfor Dec. 2-24.
For ideas and information, call
392-3295.
A defense against cancer can 
be cooked up in your kitchen.
A good rule of 
thumb is cut down on 
fat and dont be fat. 
Weight reduction may 
lower cancer risk. Our 
12- year study of nearly a 
million Americans uncovered 
high cancer risks particularly 
among people 40% or more 
overweight.
Now, more than ever, we 
know you can cook up your own 
defense against cancer.
No one faces cancer alone.
AMERICAN VCANCER f SOCIETY'

---------------------------------------------------

\5ureintheMoney!
Get; CASH for
your USED BOOKS
at
Baker Hall
DEC 12th and 13th
10:00 am - 4:00 pm
THE GREAT BOOK BUYBACK
SNOW SJy OUTFITTING
YOUR YEAR ROUND EQUIPMENT; APPAREL AND SERVICE CENTER!
Look better... ski better and safer with 
equipment fine-tuned" to your individual 
skills and requirements. Well help you 
select the exact equipment or equipment 
package best suited tor you.. .your size, 
age, sex, current skills, and tong-term 
goals Save now! Enjoy the ultimate in slu
ing pleasure
FANTASTIC PACKAGES!
ALPINE SKI PACKAGESStarts as low as *149
CROSS-COUNTRYEQUIPMENTStarts as low as *69
Alpine Designs  Black 
Bear Cebe  Compel.tive 
Edge Ge;e  Hagan  
Dachstein Lampmen  TheN
ALL FAMOUS
BRANDS
Panda  Sa omarn  Sr.
Spauiri ntj  ph i  
Swa'low TechmcJ  Tr 
and Many (Jther^
SNOW SK! OUTFITTING IS A DIVISION OF
Exciting
SCUBA
CENTER
 Professional Instruction
 Exciting Trips 
 Complete EquipmentPackages
 Personalized Servi
BOARD SAILING...the Ultimate Sport! lop Quality Equipment Personalized Instruction
 Low-cost Rentals
-MENTION THIS AD & GET A FREE SUBSCRIPTION TO SUB AQUATICS NEWS
 COLUMBUS
M5E. BROAD ST REYNOLDSBURG. ON(614) 864-1235
 CLEVELAND 
16333 NORTHHELD RO. NORTHH&D, OH 44667(216) 467-5575
 PITTSBURGH
1421 BANKSVtLLE RD. PITTSBURGH, FAIS(412) 531-5577
DOWN UNDER DOWN HILL DOWN WIND SUB AQUATICS MLL GET >DU STARTED HIGH:
Shearson-Lehman Brothers, Inc
presents
"Inside Wall Street"
5-7 p.m. 
Wednesday, Dec. 4 
Skibo Room 12
Reception to follow

---------------------------------------------------

THEIR LEADER. A SXMBOEOE 
STRENGTH .mUTXMD 
or A SPIRIT OF TRUE 
TURKEY NESS...
WHERE CREW MOTIONS SWELL'S. 
MJD VIRTUE NONE, IT IS A DR0P5IED 
WOMOR. dOOD ALONE IS GOOD,
otbyOlb ve me./^)
Z-C/RK.
Murray the Bearby Jimbo Voorhees
FLIGHT WAS
sdasrkkrn
so...
MURRAY -3 BACK i WES HERE !
._ .'T'W.
GANGWAY
WE SORTA HAbTO 
BORROW* ANOTHE'R
wspa rhoafC
by Mike McHugh & GoNollem Eigenrac
Finies.
Zurk
"The Saga Gonrfinu&S;
by Nabil Liumang
...UNTIL ONE m THEY SAW,THEY CMRIED THEIR

---------------------------------------------------

November 26, 1985The TartanPage 31
The Top Floorby M
Poindexter
APe v&u o/MJ Hoime 
\ VK*r\Oh*
you DOAJT ^0l/MT7 
T<W HAPPy.ITtL, r
Nvirep
/*y ^PieNtAc|Zo/H/HArs To
fOPTURzey.
iaiUw. Tv*r wpf, vpy 
<S^NEP9US Of youT
THy'pe 
ve&er hOhhPr
Puffy Pigby Peter Godlewski

---------------------------------------------------

- ANNOUNCING
THE CDEC SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
In January 1986, the Center for Design of Educational Computing (CDEC) will inaugurate 
a scholarship program to support student participation in educational computing. CDEC 
invites qualified undergraduates from all colleges at CMU to apply for the program. CDEC 
scholars may bring their own ideas for projects to the program, work out team projects, or 
become involved in any of the many projects underway at CDEC.
CDEC Scholars will be selected on the basis of several flexible criteria. CDECs aim is 
to develop a well balanced group of students representing a variety of talents and interests 
who are able to work effectively together to plan, design, and implement both individual and 
team projects. Relevant talents and background are not limited to programming per se, but 
may include the following: completion of a one-semester programming course (15-111, -116
or -118 or the equivalent); job experience involving the use of computers, especially for 
instruction or training; some other course, project or background demonstrably relevant to 
educational computing.
CDEC Scholarships will provide financial support for the Spring semester and summer,
allowing students to opt for the CDEC Scholarship Program instead of other remunerative 
work to contribute towards the costs of their education.
A special mini-seminar sequence has been designed especially for the CDEC 
Scholarship Program in Educational Computing. The mini-seminars will be scheduled by 
mutual agreement for those selected in the first pilot group of CDEC Scholars. The 
seminars are designed to develop a common background and culture among the CDEC 
Scholars, and to provide a collaborative framework for developing individual and team 
projects. The first seminar will cover issues in instructional design, the design of 
educational applications programs, and programming for production. The second seminar 
will be an introduction to educational computing facilities at CMU, emphasizing the Andrew 
environment and workstation, the C language, the UNIX operating system, and the C-MU 
TUTOR authoring tools. The Spring semester activities will be largely devoted to 
collaborative design of student projects and the summer to their development.
For further information on the program and how to apply, contact Carol Scheftic, CDEC 
Research Scientist, at x7644, or by campus mail at CDEC / BoM-B, or by e-mail to 
CS28@TE; please give your campus and home addresses, telephone numbers, and email address in any communication. If you are interested, contact Carol Scheftic by 
FRIDAY. DECEMBER 6.
