

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

camegie
mellnb
Concerts
is
Havin' A Party
with
SOUTHSIDE JOHNNY 
AND
THE JUKES
Friday, April 18 
4:30 pm
ON THE CUT
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 3
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie
By LISA MCA NANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
In addition to all the traditional events which 
comprise Spring Carnival at Carnegie Mellon, 
this years Carnival will offer something unique. 
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, a two-hour plus 
extravaganza will be a festive culmination to the 
weekend.
Jerry Lewis, Barbara Feldon, Charles Haid, 
Ellen Burstyn, David Lander and many others 
will join host Andy Williams on stage for the 
April 19 show. Three-time Emmy Award win
ner Bob Finkel, a Carnegie Mellon alumnus, is 
working with noted television producer Lee 
Miller, another Carnegie Mellon alumnus, to 
produce and direct the show at the Civic Arena.
Lewis and Williams, two performers who are 
not Carnegie Mellon alumni, were asked to per
form because they have worked frequently with 
Carnegie Mellon show business alumni. Lewis 
is an honorary member of the universitys west 
coast clan or alumni group.
The gala will alos feature many student per
formers, including the Kiltie Band, the Carnegie 
Mellon Symphony Orchestra, the Cameron 
Choir, and the Jazz Band. Master bagpiper 
James McIntosh and the MacDonald Pipe Band, 
and Lee Cass, a professor in Carnegie Mellons 
music department will perform as well.
According to University Vice President R. 
Keith Moore, who is coordinating this event, 
there will be an audience of about 9,000. This 
is near capacity for the Civic arena when using 
the theatre style option because one bank of
seats is made inaccessible by the stage.
Carnegie Slautes Carnegie has already 
received coverage from USA Today The 
Associated Press, CBS News and many Los 
Angeles trade papers, like Variety.
Besides participating in the gala itself, some 
of the stars will be on campus to take part in 
other Carnival events, like buggy and booth 
judging. These celebrities as well as the pro
duction and technical staffs, many of whom are 
Carnegie Mellon alumni, are offering their time 
and talent free of charge.
While Carnegie Salutes Carnegie is the offical kick-off for the universitys $200 million 
capital campaign, it is not a fund-raising event. 
There will be no sales pitches or solicitation of 
donations. The evening is a celebration of the 
university and its people. Distiguished alumni 
in a variety' of professional fields will be honored 
at a formal dinner preceding the show and again 
during the program. These include Marvin L. 
Goldberger, president of the California Institute 
of Technology; Georege A. Roberts, president 
and director of Teledyne, Inc.; and Bud Yorkin, 
President of Bud Yorkin Productions, Inc. 
Carnegie Slautes Carnegie will not only be 
a memorable event in itself, but could easily 
make this a Spring Carneival which will not be 
topped for a long time. Particular thanks are 
due to Jackie Granger, Gretchen Van 
Grossman, and the whole Spring Carnival. 
Committee for putting an enormous amount of 
time and effort into the successful coordination 
of Carnival and the Civic Arena Show.
Buggy business. . . .
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Its 6 a.m. on a chilly spring Sunday morn
ing. Representatives from all the campus frater
nities and several other organizations litter up
per Margaret Morrison Street. What brings 
these hundred-odd supposedly sane poeple out 
at such an ungodly hour? Buggy fever.
Since 1920, the buggy races have been the 
highlight of Spring Carnival. And since that 
time, the basic object has remained the same: 
to complete the one mile course in the shortest 
time. The course begins at Margaret Morrison 
Hall, proceeds up Margaret Morrison Street, 
then curves through Schenley Park, then makes 
a u-turn up the back hills on Frew Street to 
the finish line at GSIA. The most crucial part 
of the course is the chute, the part of the 
course where the buggies make the sharp turn 
on Frew Street. The hay bales lining both sides 
of the street are a testimony to the frequent 
spinouts and crashes that insure an extra large 
crowd on race day.
Although the course has remained unchang
ed, the technology of the buggies has advanc
ed hugely from the original crate-like creations 
of the 1920s. The buggies are now sleek, 
aerodynamically designed vehicles which roll 
at up to 40 mph. Currently, the latest buggy 
design change is a reduction in the number of 
wheels. Three wheelers (one in the front, two 
*n the rear) are gradually replacing four 
wheelers that have dominated since 1920. One 
contestant, Delta Upsilon, rolled a two-wheeler 
last year, and has produced another that was 
scheduled to run this year. An accident in the
photo by Bob Fishel
chute has made the possibility of the two
wheeler rolling on race day remote, however. 
Technological improvements, such as better 
wheels and chemically treating and pre-heating 
of those wheels, have been the major impetus 
behind the steady decline in course times over 
the years, although the record time of 2:09.0 
in 1983 has not as yet been battered. The next 
major barrier is the two-minute mark. Beta 
buggy co-chairman Denzil Boss predicts the 
two-minute mark will be broken, but no telling 
when.
Technology is only half the secret to buggy 
success. A good push team, the five individuals 
responsible for shoving the buggies over the 
uphill portions of the course. The key qualities 
of a successful pusher are speed combined with 
good upper body strength.
No less crucial is the sixth member of the 
buggy team, the driver. The difference between 
a good driver and a merely average driver can 
be the margin of victory. Usually a coed 54 
or smaller, and weighing less than 100 pounds, 
the drivers are expected to sacrifice much free 
time for free-rolls on Saturday and Sunday 
mornings and push practice each weekday 
night. During runs, they are belted into the bug
gies and have no freedom of movement, save 
that of their hands and feet to work brakes and 
to steer. The buggies, however, are carefully 
tested to insure driver safety, and injuries are 
few.
The total focus of all these efforts is 2lh 
minutes on Carnival Saturday. On that day and 
the preliminary Friday, buggies run the course 
in pairs, starting at 9 a.m. each day, competing 
for the next years bragging rights.
photo by Olve Peersen
Carnival concert preview
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-inrChief
Each year, concert provide some of the most 
entertaining moments of Carnival. This year 
should be no exception with East Coast Offer
ing and Southside Johnny and the Jukes as two 
of the headliners.
East Coast Offering is a local jazz band with 
the kind of sound that brings to mind the theme 
from Barney Miller. They offer a laid-back, 
standard jazz sound, a mellow version of Spiro 
Gyra.
Southside Johnny, is a different story. His 
style is rock-n-roll through and through. Born 
down the Jersey shore, Johnny joined the Son
ny Kenn Blues Band at age 16. As the shore 
music scene started to coalesce, Johnnys 
musical mates included Miami Steve Van Zandt 
and Bruce Springsteen. It was Springsteen who 
wrote Southside Johnnys hit Fever. The 
jukes came together at the legendary Stone 
Pony in Asbury Park and became the house
band in 1974.
Johnny and the Jukes are know for their 
abilbity to communicate with the audience and 
generate uncommon intensity by involving the 
audience in the performance. I dont think 
weve ever done a concern where the audience 
hasnt been the main focus. I never want to 
restrict my audienceand Ive had a lot of trou
ble with security through the years, said 
Johnny.
Southside Johnnys music is based in a solid, 
steady beat, throaty, sexy sax and Johnny 
Lyons deep, gravelly vocals. Its the kind of 
music that begs to be performed live in front 
of an enthusicatic audience.
While East Coast Offering and Southide 
Johnny and the Jukes should prove to be two 
of the most exciting concerts during this years 
Spring Carnival, there are plenty of oppertunities to hear great live music. For a full listing 
of the Carnival events see the schedule in this 
supplement on the events section of Diversions.
photo by Olve Pferser

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

uOULYWOOD
Thursday, April 17Friday, April 18Salurday. April 19
Buggy Display and Competition 
Pre Sale Ride Tickets
Opening Ceremonies
Skydiving Exhibition
Kiltie Band
"Thats Entertainment Part 1"
Class Clubs Picnic
Jazz Choir
Scotch n' Soda "The Murder Room" 
Drama Production Samba
That's Entertainment Part I"
AB Dance
Fireworks (Friday if rain)
'Thats Entertainment Part I"
Midway cioses
Tech Street 
Noon
Cut
Skibo Lobby 
Tent 
Midway 
2:30 PM
Tent
4:00 PM
IM Field
Tent
Midway
6:00 PM
Skibo Lobby 
DH 2210 
7:00 PM
Tent
8:00 PM
Skibo Ballroom 
Kresge 
8:30 PM 
DH 2210 
9:00 PM 
Tent
10:00 PM
Wherrett Room
11:00 PM
DH 2210 
Midnight
Midway
Sweepstakes Races
Arts & Crafts Sale (Skibo Lobby if rain 
Robotics Demonstration 
Quick Release (Band)
Midway Opens
Tom Wilmorth (Mime)
Mens Lacrosse vs Allegheny 
Celebrity Look-a-Like Contest 
Caricaturist 
Midway Judging
T-Shirt Competition Display 
That's Entertainment Pari II"
661st Air Force Band 
"Systems - Go"
Scotch 'n' Soda The Murder Room" 
Drama Production "Samba"
"That's Entertainment Part II"
SDC Dance
Horror Film Festival 
"American Werewolf in London" 
Creepshow,"
"Attack of the Killer Tomatoes"
Night of the Living Dead"
That's Entertainment Part II"
Midway Closes
Tech Street 
Noon 
Midway 
Cut
Skibo Lobby 
1:00 PM
Tent
2:00 PM
Midway
Cut
3:00 PM
Midway 
3:30 PM
Tent
6:00 PM
Tent
7:00 PM
8:00 PM
Skibo Ballroom 
8:30 PM 
Civic Arena 
9:00 PM
Tent
10:00 PM
Midway 
11:30 PM
Cut
Midnight
Skibo
Sweepstakes Races
Midway Opens 
Arts & Crafts Sale 
Robotics Demonstration
Hector & Paris (Band)
Magician
A Phi O Musical Chairs 
Caricaturist
Trinidad Tripoli Steel Band
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie 
Student Reception
Busses load for students attending 
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie
Scotch n Soda The Murder Room'
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie
Ghostbusters" (movie)
Midway closes
Awards Ceremony
Party with the Stars
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 15, 1986Buggy ChairmenJ Delia Tan Delta
Sweepstakes 86 promises to be another exciting season of buggy races. Here are a few shots of the first part of the race.The ever important Hill 1 (center left and on right), followed by the long roll down Hill 2 (top right). Hill 2 ends in the flag, which is used as a guide for entering the tricky and dangerous shute (bottom left).Even though last Sundays freerolls were cancelled due to wheather, most teams are ready for action. This years favorites are Beta, Sigma Nu, CIA, and Pika. See Compu Bookie, page 7, for details.
photos and cover photo by Olve Peersen
By SHAWN STUFFT
Special to The Tartan
Sweepstakes 1986 promises to be one of the 
most exciting races ever because many 
organizations are within the reach of the first 
place position. To provide you with better in
sight to the Sweepstakes competition, the follow
ing information was collected from each ol the 
Buggy Chairmen:
Alpha Tau Omega
Chairman: James Angelo 
Buggies Entered: Squid, Gander 
New Ideas for 1986: Enter Sweepstakes 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Top 10 
1986 Favorites: Sigma Nu, Beta, PiKA
Beta Theta Pi
Chairman: Denzil Boss 
Buggies Entered: Vixen, Nike, Challenger 
New Ideas for 1986: WINGS 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Three in finals 
1986 favorites: PiKA, Sigma Nu, CIA
Carnegie Involvement Association
Chairmen :Mark Wilkins 
Tom Kovalcik 
Buggies Entered: Interceptor, Black Magic, 
Spectre, New 
New Ideas for 1986: Bunch o stuff 
Overlook for Sweepstakes: Faster than ever 
1986 Favorites: CIA, PiKA, Beta, Sigma Nu
Chairmen: Phil Gerard
Adam Hird 
Greg Eoyang 
Buggies Entered: Crisis, the one and only 
New Ideas for 1986: One buggy team 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Old buggies will 
take it
1986 Favorites: Crisis, of course
Delta Upsilon 
Chairmen: Phil Ebbert
Ian Gal^
Buggies Enter^: '^i^baf, Homed Screaver, 
Thumper %
New Ideas for 1986: Aerodynamics 
Qujlook for Sweepstakes: Biakar to win 
1986 Favorites: DU, Sigma Nu, Beta, PiKA
Fringe
Chairmen: Steven Ng
Marc Schindewolf 
Buggies Entered: Barrier, Benefit, Bargain, 
Flying Buttress 
New Ideas for 1986: Bearings in the wheels
& Miss April 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Top ten mens, Top 
three womens 
1986 Favorites: Zoo, PiKA, Beta, and Spirit 
too.
Kappa Sigma
Chairman: Joe DeScipio 
Buggiess Entered: Babble, The Lonely Guy, 
ATF, Mirage 
New Ideas for 1986: Dont heat - Dont treat 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Promising 
1986 Favorites: Beta, Sigma Nu

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 7
By CompuBookie
Special to The Tartan
Sigma Nu took sweepstakes last year as PiKas 
chances for a triple-crown fell on Hill 1. Last 
years second day times make one wonder 
whether or not we will see a new record in the 
near future. The new timing system was an in
stant success and having the top ten in the finals 
should help avoid controversy this year.
Last year we had very poor weather 
throughout the spring, but this year the only pro
blem was getting the permits. With all the 
wrecks we have been having lately it should be 
interesting to see whose hey-day it will be on 
Race Day.
This year everyone is wondering who will 
have the overall best time. Fringe and Theta 
Xi should still be around for the finals, but Beta, 
Sigma Nu, CIA and PiKa should finish on top 
once again.
The womens heats should pit last years win
ner CIA against Fringe, Kappa Alpha Theta and 
upstart Spirit with CIA once again coming up 
on top.
Good luck to all the organizations and 
everyone should look forward to another great 
and exciting Spring Carnival.
Mens Heats Predictions
1. Beta-AThey are whiping the slate clean, 
In hopes of echoing a 78 victory.
2. Sigma-Nu-ANothing radica-cal for the zoo 
this year, another strong finish.
3. CIA-AWill CIA be able to make the drop 
into the top three?
4. PiKa-AA few good tips may help them out 
this year.
5. Beta-BMay cutoff a few seconds this year.
6. PiKa-Bshould get down to Biz-ness.
Fringe Although being Reuda at push practice, 
Fringe could sting their way into the top ten 
this year with benefits from their alumni.
ATO After a poor Greek Sing performance, 
ATO has made sweeping changes in their 
buggy program and with a little angelic help, 
may be a contender this year.
Pi LamPi Lam is a legend for spinning out 
in the chute, but without pizza sauce on their 
wheels, they may fly this year.
SDC If SDC keeps heating their wheels, we 
may see a blue haze come Race Day.
Sigma NuSome may Estes-mate that their 
push team could use a little doctoring this 
year, but others believe their hay day is yet 
to come.
BetaBeta could have their butts around the 
keg if their push teams arent golden, but with 
the boss, their buggies should have a good 
year.
SAELook for them to take the womens races.
PiKaPiKa bearly made it over the hill last 
year, but with a few good brakes this year, 
PiKa could turn the races into a dogfight.
Theta XiIf Theta Xi can nip a little time 
during freeroll, and give their pushers better 
legs, they can paul their way to the top six.
Phi KapPhi Kap had their Phil of poor rolls, 
but this year you can be Scheuer they will 
make the top ten.
Kappa SigWhats the copp with Kappa Sig 
this year? A top ten finish will be a mirage 
because they will still be far behind no 
matter what lange-uage they use.
CIACIA left their Mark on the bales during 
freerolls, but with a little magic they can drop 
into the top 3 this year.
DUWe dont think a top ten finish is
possi ble, D.U.?
DTDDTD came out with spirit, but a crisis 
in freerolls force them to race only 1 buggy.
SpiritAfter coming out with great euthsiasm, 
spirit was Delt a blow in freerolls, therefore 
they will again be the poor Matt.
On SweepstakesPhi Kappa ThetaKappa
Chairmen: Phil Renner
Tim Scheuer 
Buggies Entered: Gumby, Silhouette, Stilletto, 
Shadow
New Ideas for 1986: 1. Shells that dont 
sound like broken washing machines, 2. 
Selling ad space on buggies 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: We not be pretty, 
but well roll well!
1986 Favorites: Sigma Nu, Beta, CIA
Pi Kappa Alpha
Chairman: Steven Krom 
Buggies Entered: Godzilla, Breathless, King 
Soloman, Bullet 
New Ideas for 1986: 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Finish in top three. 
1986 Favorites: Sigma Nu, Beta, CIA
Pi Lambda Phi
Chaiman: G. Christopher Rentko 
Buggies Entered: Legend, Falcon, Miss 
Budwiser
New Ideas for 1986: Non-exploding wheels. 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Legend will make 
it through the chute in one piece.
1986 Favorites: Sigma Nu, Beta, PiKA
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Chairmen: Barney Coughlin
Lou Fuertes 
Buggies Entered: Limo, Intrepid, Hustler 
New Ideas for 1986: State-of-the-art elec
tronic audio/visual technology.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Limo @ 4:00 flat. 
1986 Favorites: Limo to have fun. *
Sigma Nu
Chairmen: Pete Spike Radka
Mark Estes 
Buggies Entered: Lemur, Colugo, Yamabachi, Jerboa 
New Ideas for 1986: New buggy.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Well be close. 
1986 Favorites: PiKA-very good, Betapotential threat
Spirit
Chairmen: Robert Bowie 
Matt Wagner 
Buggies Entered: Pegasus, Genesis, Elon 
New Ideas for 1986: 1st full year 
-3 new buggies 
-technologywho us? 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Surprise!
Surprise!
1986 Favorites: PiKA-A, PiKA-B, Beta-A, 
CIA-A
Student Dorm Council
Chairman: Andy Russo
Buggies Entered: Banzai, Opus, Blue Haze
New Ideas for 1986: Shell technology.
Outlook for Sweepstakes: 10th
1986 Favorites: Beta, PiKA, CIA
Theta Xi
Chairman: Paul DiMarco 
Buggies Entered: Little Nip, Rapier, Vapor, 
Relayer
New Ideas for 1986: Pork Belly Futures. 
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Peachy 
1986 Favorites: Zoo, Beta, PiKA and 
Dewars white label.
photo by Olve Peersen
Compu Bookie predicts for 86

---------------------------------------------------

------------------------
ATTENTION STUDENTSATTENDING 
CARNEGIE SALUTES CARNEGIE
If you need bus transportaion to and from the Civic 
Arena, please sign up at the Skibo Information Desk 
(if you have already not done so with your RA 
or through the Greek system). Please sign up by 
Thurs. April 17 at 5 pm. Buses will begin departing 
on Forbes Ave. in front of the Morewood Parking lot 
at 7 pm. Depending on the number of students re
questing transportation, the buses will depart in shifts 
Please arrive at the lot before 7 pm.
If you do drive, please be aware that there will be a 
parking charge.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment 
Comics 
Gallery 
Classifieds
Events
Pittsburgh Opera sings a Verdi classic
By STEFAN D. BROWN
Tartan Classical Music Critic 
Last weekends performances of a slightly 
abridged La Forza del Destino were the first in 
over twenty years. Thats too long to wait for 
such a terrific opera.
Based on a play by Don Angel de Saavedra, 
Due of Rivera, the story is concerned with the 
inevitable and uncontrollable force of destiny 
that propels the life of Don Alvaro, a doomed 
man from the moment of his birth. The Mar
quis of Calatrava refuses to allow him to marry 
his daughter Leonora because his mother was 
 the last of the Incas. The couple is caught 
in the process of eloping when Alvaro acciden
tally shoots the Marquis who curses them and 
i hence calling destiny into play. Don Carlo, his 
son, vows to kill the wretched couple. The lovers 
j become separated: Leonora becomes a hermit 
I and Don Alvaro assumes the name Don 
Frederic Herreros and becomes a great general.
| Carlo assumes the name Don Felice de Bornos 
! and joins the same regiment. Without knowing 
5 the identity of each other the two become good 
I friends. Later when challenged to a duel the 
i horrified Alvaro becomes a monk at the same 
j monestary where Leonora has been searching 
I for absolution. Five years later Carlo finds 
j Alvaro and challenges him again. Carlo is killI ed outside of his sisters hermitage. The dying 
\ unforgiving brother stabs his sister. She prays 
1 for Alvaros soul and dies.
This is real blood-and-thunder-get-theadrenalin-flowing theater. It really doesnt mat
ter that there are too many characters, or too 
many coincidences for a credible story. In adap
ting the play, motivations and explanations are 
lost and the work sprawls over* four almost 
unrelated acts. What does matter is that the 
master Verdi with his consummate insight was 
able to penetrate inside the characters. His 
music, with an overwhelming amount of 
I wonderful tunes, clearly expresses the emotions, 
motivations, and underlying psychology of the 
I characters. His use of recurring themes serves 
, to unify the w.rk but lacks Wagnerian developi ment. But Forza is recognized as a new develop| ment in Verdis own compositional style. 
I Premiered in 1862 it was the first of a new kind 
| of modernopera and made with ideas 
I rather than just a series of unrelated arias.
The performances here were much on the 
I uneven side. On Tuesday night the orchestra 
I under the baton of Anton Coppola gave a lack
luster performance. Particularly bad were the 
J violins which missed entrances, ragged cutoffs, 
screeching and unsure high notes, and a 
tendency to play on the soft side. The orchestra 
missed its chance to shine in the overture (in
 this production played between the prologue 
and the first act). This piece, added for performances in Italy, is a potpourri of the major 
tunes and as such the orchestra can take on 
Bits own personality and deliver emotional ex pression. Instead, except for a few warm lines
 from the clarinet, the playing lacked emotion,
 depth, and range of expression. The perfor mance of the opera as a whole was controlled, 
jdiiected an^ tightly knit into one cohesive piece. 
Surely this is counted for by Coppolas direcftion which was always sympathetic to the singers 
pnd the progression of the opera.
I Giovanna Casolla (replacing Stefka Evstatieva) 
pas one of four making a Pittsburgh debut. She 
Possesses a large soprano that is uneven only
at the top. Otherwise notes were sung with even
ness but an evenness that became excessive. 
Declarations of love, fear and religious ecstasy 
were delivered with the same vocal intensity. 
Her Pace, pace, mio Dio was flawed by a 
voice that lacked the flexibility of modulation 
necessary for Leonora. High points of singing 
occurred in the Prologues Io can Amanto? 
where her tone clearly portrayed conflicting 
emotions and the monestary scene where the 
progression from fear to religious ecstasy were 
well conveyed. Her pianissimo in La Verine 
degli angeli was clear and penetrating. After 
working with the role a bit Casolla will be an 
excellent Leonora.
Nunzio Todisco (replacing Giuseppe 
Gracomini) sang with a large tenor that, while 
possessing a full even tone, exhibits surprisingly
small emotional range. Couple this with limited 
and halfhearted acting and you have an Alvaro 
that is pleasant to hear but emotionally and 
dramatically uninteresting. Love for Leonora 
and hatred for her brother were sung so iden
tically that one scene could be substituted for 
the other. Todiscos acting appeared too rigid 
and mechanical. Perhaps he should just let go 
and permit the character to develop.
In his American debut baritone Eduard 
Toamgian performed the role of Don Carlo. His 
character was introduced in the overture as this 
production dropped the scene that normally in
troduces him. Even from this beginning it was 
obvious that there would be little of interest in 
this Carlo. As an actor he never fleshed out 
emotions and his body appeared forced into a
series of motions rather than natural reactions. 
This was most obvious in the scene directly after 
the batde. The wounded and dying Herreros 
has given his friend de Bornos a box the con
tents of which are to be burned upon his death. 
Carlo suspects that this man might be Alvaro 
because of the horror he displayed when the 
name Calatrava was mentioned. The suspicion 
is confirmed when the opened box yields let
ters from Leonora as well as a locket with her 
picture. The surgeon returns to say that the 
general will live. Carlo is thrilled because now 
he can have his revenge. This is clearly a 
dramatic scene that calls for a wide range of 
physical and vocal acting. Both were lacking. 
The text was recited rather than deleivered as 
a series of probes and revelations. The intensicontinued on page 6
Ulustartion by Dave Biber

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 15, 1986
Despite bad props Murder Room is enjoyable
By GARRETT YANKOU
Special to The Tartan
The opening of The Murder Room last 
Wednesday held a lot of mystery even for the 
cast and crew of Scotch & Soda. Unfortunately 
the cast had not rehearsed nearly enough with 
the intricate props and set. It was anyones 
guess what would happen next. Would the gun 
fire again? When would the lights go out? What 
was worse though was that it was hard to decide 
what exactly had happened. Just how many 
shots were there? What was happening behind 
the stage making all those thumping noises? 
Who was that woman in black on stage and why 
was she going upstairs into the Hollisters 
bedroom? And why did everyone say that they 
saw the dead Edgar standing there when the 
lights were out?
Jack Sharkeys mystery farce reminds me of 
old Monty Python reruns. The key point to be 
made is that it is funny. It takes place in the 
present time in the North Part of England. 
Basically it is about people with English accents 
who try really hard to say as many words as 
possible, as quickly as possible, and then follow 
their speech with one long whooping word. An 
example: Edgar, (to be said as if he has a hum
ming bird for a tongue) I didnt drink the... 
(to be said as if he were being paid by the hour) 
 . . . Cooooooooocoooooooooooa. The plot of 
the fortune seeking mistress who believes for 
some reason that she can kill off half of the 
world population without getting caught is also 
of some interest.
Frank Schurter plays Edgar Hollister, the ec
centric, missing man with the bad hairpiece, 
assumed by everyone of being murdered, and 
Constable Abel, who weve all seen somewhere 
before. Schurter handles the frequently flying 
dialogue expertly. This guy is on the ball; dur
ing the ill-fated opening night, he fell to the floor 
saying, Oh, the strain, a heart attack., when 
the gun that was supposed to finish him off 
decided not to work. When he and Michele 
Osherow, playing Edgars wife Mavis, appear 
on stage together, the sparks fly. Osherow lays 
it on thick sometimes which is funny. Along with 
acting well, she has mastered the art of rolling 
her eys and fainting. I was impressed that she 
kept her composure when the gun didnt fire. 
She only muttered to her husband, Hold on 
a minute dear, while I get this thing to work.
Enter Edgars dingbat daughter Susan with 
her newly found run-of-the-mill handsome
young American millionaire (self-described) 
fiance Barry and youve got the whole family. 
Its hard to tell if Ami Spicer who plays Susan 
is an awful or phenomenal actress. Her lines 
sound as if they are instructions given to a 
fourth-grader on how to build his own nuclear 
power plant. Then get some big cement blocks. 
Okay? Susan is cautious about sputtering forth 
anything from her mouth. Maybe thats because 
Susan cant do or say anything right. Thanks 
a lot Susan, follows nearly all of her stupid 
moves. Barry is played by David DesRoches. 
His character is in itself a farce, a humorous 
look at impolite undignified Americans.
Liz Rueger plays the elderly mumbling 
housekeeper Lottie Molloy. Rueger has a lot of 
character and any scene with her in it is bound 
to be funny. One exception is her scene with 
DesRoches. Its sort of like watching a person 
talk to cardboard. The only difference is that 
if cardboard talked, you might be able to 
understand what it was saying. Ruegers 
melodramatic actions and facial expressions 
work well with the play. Some of the actors 
should have remembered that the play is a 
mystery-^rce. A1 Morales plays Inspector James 
Crandall, an expressionless part played well 
with little expression.
The Murder Room will be performed tomor
row through Saturday at 8 p.m. in the Skibo 
ballroom. The play, directed by Mary Beth 
Gilmore, has a lot of good moments. The set 
is impressive. Maviss costumes are great 
especially her hot pink pjs. When the cast 
works together, which it does occasionally, the 
result is a very funny, entertaining play. When 
the characters ignore each other on stage, the 
problems will be worked out. With the lights go
ing out every ten seconds and the scrambling 
of the cast occurring every time the lights go 
out, the final scene of the play is certainly the 
funniest. The scene proves that it is possible 
to say, Get the gun. Get the lights. Dont shoot. 
Its me. three times (or more) fast.
The end of yet another Scotch & Soda season 
brings out an interesting array of questions, the 
most important being will there be an amateur 
theatre company at Carnegie Mellon next year? 
Many of the major forces behind Scotch & Soda, 
including current president Lauren Schneider,
BOOK SALE!Over 300 books, most under $1 
Records also.Primary sources, research, and criticism, solid academic material.
If raining, the sale will be in Skibo
NOTICE!
cam egilnw tihF rd ayhd,FApd1 8ONT
This standby fare provides a 
berth in a room for four (we'll 
find traveling companions for 
you). Or, for $749, sail in a 
minimum-grade room for two. 
This limited offer is subject to 
withdrawal without prior 
notice and may not be com bined with any other offer. 
Rate does not include taxes or
airfare. Confirmation will be 
given three weeks prior to sail
ing; a $100 deposit is required 
with your request. For details, 
see your travel agent or write: 
Cunard, Box 2935, Grand 
Central Station, New York,
NY 10163.
Queen Elizabeth 2 
Last of the Great Superliners.
QE2 registered in Great Britain.
CUMARD
 CUNARD 1986
will be leaving Carnegie Mellon this year. 
Schneider has an impressive history of dramarelated positions. She has stage managed The 
Murder Room. Line, Cages, Vanities and Salem
after Midnight. Also leaving this year will be 
Mary Beth Gilmore, a major director and ac
tress for Scotch & Soda. Over the past two years 
she has directed Line, Cages and The Murder 
Room and has performed in Carried Away and 
Round and Round the Garden.
When you remove Tom Wood, set designer 
of The Murder Room and other plays; Helene 
Newburg, technical director for Line; and Rory 
Wohl, technical director and builder of most of 
The Murder Room, from the ranks of Scotch & 
Soda and youre left with only a skeleton of what 
it once was. Scotch & Soda is very actively 
recruiting members for both its crews and casts 
for next year. If youre interested, stop by their 
office at Skibo 40D or call them at 268-3522.
AP News: Diversions
Asssociated Press Service
CBS AIRS NEW SERIES
CBS is bringing Suzane Pleshette back to 
series TV for Bridges to Cross. The hour-long 
drama casts her as a news magazine reporter 
in Washington. The cast includes Eva Gabor 
as a socialite, and Jose Ferrer as Pleshettes 
Boss.
DEFUNCT SHOW GETS A 
MAKEOVER
CBS has borrowed from a script in the defunct 
George Bums Comedy Week to create Leo 
and Liz in Beverly Hills. Harvey Korman and 
Valerie Perrine play a couple from New Jersey 
adjusting to life in Southern California.
STILL IN THE LINE-UP
Returning to CBS are Charlie and Com
pany and Mike Hammer which dissappeared after star Stacy Keach was imprisoned 
in Britain. The new entry, though, will be a host 
of repeat brodcasts from the days before 
Reachs one-time drug problems landed him in 
jail.
COSBY AND TIES SCARE AWAY 
COMPETITION
Bill Cosby can carve another notch in his 
ratings belt. Magnum, P.I. is bitting the thursday night dust and moving to Saturday nights. 
The new CBS Challenger: Simon and Simon, 
which will be bumped into the earlier time slot 
against NBCs winning Cosby Show and 
Family Ties.
NBC NEWS GAINS GROUND ON CBS
No surprise NBCs Thursday night line-up 
helped the network win the prime-time Nielsen 
ratings race again last week. What was a stun
ner was that the NBC Nightly News tied with 
the CBS Evening News. It was NBCs best 
finish in more than four years.
OVAL OFFICE ON THE TUBE
The Presidents have it this summer. ABC 
plans a two-hour documentary on The In
domitable Teddy Roosevelt. CBS again is 
spotlighting the father of our country in 
Washington Two: The Forging of a Nation. 
And Randy Quaid, whose impression of Presi
dent Reagan regulary lights up Saturday Night 
Live, will play L.B.J. for NBC next season.
PITTSBRUGHOn the heels of their first hit, 
DiCesare-Engler welcomes the Pittsburgh debut 
of The Outfield to Graffiti for a special under 
21 show, Monday, April 21, at 7:30 p.m.
One listen to their current hit, Your Love, 
listeners will take notice of the London trios 
pop tune writing in the American tradition. Says 
guitarist John Spinks, Weve got a solid, almost 
traditional American rock n roll sound. When 
you think about it, most melody these days 
seems to be coming from the States.
Their mixture of energy, punch and polish
ed pop was inevitable since the groups begin
nings in the late 70s and early 80s. 
Bassist/vocalist Tony Lewis and drummer Alan 
Jackman were classmates and began playing 
together at age 14.Give a hoot. Dont pollute.
Connc ertsi4n:3 0 p mAil15,9 8 6t:il15,9 8 Toci,9 T5oc:n 8 Toci,9 h,tcAn
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center................268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., an answering service operator will help you reach 
the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.....................................................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection......................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid................................................................................................ 281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of title appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
DE presents the Outfield
A series of ill-fated bands followed for the 
three before culiminating in a band called 
Baseball Boys. A list of live dates followed and 
the group started recording demos, one of which 
was introduced to an American manager living 
in London. The bands music was auditioned 
at Columbia Records who were impressed by 
their knack to write songs with American hooks.
Tickets are now on sale for $7 at all National 
Record Marts, Oasis Records and Tapes, Graf
fiti and the Syria Mosque Box Office. Prices are 
$8 the night of the show at the door. Tickets 
can be charged to Visa/MasterCard at 
621-3333.

---------------------------------------------------

April 8, 1986The TartanPage 3
Emma Masley at Pittsburgh Center for the Arts
By WALTER G. RITCHIE
Tartan Art Critic
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts is currently 
displaying the work of Emma Masley, a visiting 
artist who taught last year in the CMU Depart
ment of Art. The show consists of paintings and 
mixed media constructions completed over re
cent years.
Masleys constructions are assemblages of 
two-dimensional planes of wood that either 
overlap or intersect, forming a deep threedimensional space. Combined with the wood are 
other media such as plastic, cardboard, and 
styrofoam, all of which come together to create 
a variety of form and texture.
A multiplicity of form covers the range from 
the abstract to the figurative. The observer can 
look into the construction and identify familiar 
objects while being forced to encounter the 
world of the unfamiliar.
Masleys colors are vibrant and bright. She 
tends more toward fluorescents in pinks, 
yellows, greens, and blues. The colors used will 
vary from one construction to the next, depen
ding on the theme or subject of the piece.
In Tassa de Mar, a sailing ship climbs up and 
over the surging waves of a turbulent sea. Below 
are the murky depths filled with fish and 
mythical creatures swimming in a tangle of wire
nets and underwater vegetation. An Ionic col
umn resting on the ocean bottom stands as a 
monument to a lost civilisation..
Pompeii seized a glimpse of the final days of 
this Roman city by the sea. An Ionic temple, 
occupying the center of the construction, is 
backed by jutting flames and an angry Vesuvius 
spewing ashes and hot lava. Human and animal 
forms can be detected within the domain of the 
temple, which is about to be engulfed by the 
flowing molten rock.
The highly stylized forms and images of 
Masleys three-dimensional constructions are 
transferred over to her two-dimensional pain
tings. In Mayan Jungle, we see once again both 
the figurative and the abstract. The forms of 
animals and creatures are discernable among 
the dense foilage and abstracted shapes.
Unlike her constructions, Masleys paintings 
lack a sense of depth and overall space. The 
forms in Mayan Jungle are extremely flat, reflec
ting the two-dimensional shapes of the construc
tions. But whereas the cut wooden forms come 
together to create a three-dimensional space, 
the images in the paintings merely accentuate 
the two-dimensionality of the canvas.
The Emma Masley exhibit ends April 20th. 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts is on the corner 
of Fifth and Shady Avenues.
Jeff Justice is much more than a magician
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic
Never judge a magician by his posters. While 
his posters suggested that he was one of those 
flashy top-hat and tails magicians, Jeff Justice 
was actually a minimalist with his magic, but 
a definite maximalist in comedy. Sure, he used 
the old cards, handkerchief, animals (as it 
were), sponge balls, swords, and audience 
members, but in using them he got more laughs 
than magic. Which is not to say that the magic 
wasnt impeccable; as perfect as it was, the 
magic was far superceded by comedy.
Some people were fooled by the posters. At 
his show on Friday in the Wherrett room at
tracted a man with two roller-skating kids, as 
well as a packed house of students. The two kids 
were probably the most surprized when it 
became apparent that Jeff Justice was more 
comedian than anything. He saw them down in 
the front row and warned them, but they stayed 
and saw a show that will probably be etched 
in their little minds for years, warping their 
future attitudes towards normal magicians. 
Theyll be looking for spontaneous comedy, 
having been spoiled by the delightfully quick 
humor of Jeff Justice.
His ability to change subjects rapidly was part 
of his ability to stay one step ahead of the au
dience. While performing prepared material he
could forsake association and jump right from 
Wisconson to working out to drunk driving 
laws...in that order. But he was not so detatched as to forsake continuity, like Steven Wright, 
who finds no need for any sort of link at all. 
Justice had more of a conversational style of just 
saying what was funny, and sounding, if not be
ing, spontaneous. Even in normal conversation 
he was funny, and admitted to having been one 
of those class clowns who knew the corner bet
ter than the chalkboard, but his humor never 
stops.
In his improvisation he was fast, funny, and 
only slightly insulting to certain audience 
members, but only the ones who deserved it. 
He also had to improvise with mostly-willing 
volunteers for two of his magic tricks (the other 
two tricks were solo) and the laughs kept com
ing even after a volunteer named Jim got a 
sword through his neck. Many a bladder was 
loosed with that trick. It was ob\ ious that he was 
prepared to talk with people, but Justice could 
not have anticipated that the Activities Board 
banner would fall behind him. He made that 
almost as funny as anything he had prepared 
by pretending to swing on, salute, and sweep 
with the white banner.
For Jeff Justice, magic and comedy were a 
self-paced course. He literally found4 magic 
when he dicovered an old book of simple illu
sions, and started learning the tricks in the ac
tivity section of the Sunday Funnies. He work
ed for some time doing purely close-up, or 
sleight of had magic, and opened up a chain 
of magic shops. When he felt comedy seeping 
in under the tricks, he developed it and even
tually sold the magic shops to his partner and 
went to New York to work in comedy clubs, and 
also to take a class with City Limits, in im
provisation group sprung from the bosom of Se
cond City.
He let the magic fade out of his act (only in 
the literal sense), and he currendy performs on
ly a few tricks in a primarily stand-up routine. 
He also does an extended bit with a furry coil 
raccoon named Rocky who is controlled ex
quisitely by Justice and made to take part in 
some embarassing and downright painful stunts.
His tricks included pulling a scarf right 
through the mike stand, and it still amazed peo
ple even after repeating it four times and final
ly demonstrating how it was done in slow mo
tion and to the theme from Chariots of Fire. 
In another trick, the girl Justice volunteered 
could hardly stop giggling after he first told her 
that she would have to retrieve a deck of cards 
he had put in his pants, and then asked her if 
she had ever pulled a trick.
In comparison with past AB Coffeehouse per
formances, I almost dont....well, definitely 
dont hesitate to say that Jeff Justice was one 
of the best performers on campus this year. His 
act suggested that he had gotten his comedy in 
his magic and his magic in his comedy and 
decided Hey! They taste great together!4 The 
show was arranged by Valerie Villafana, who 
is a relative newcomer to AB Coffeehouse this 
year. Hopefully she will continue to pick em 
like she did for Friday night, and maybe even 
pick Jeff Justice again if were lucky.
E-Z
MiniStorage
Self Storage 
Call276-6080
810 Trumball Dr.
G reentree, PA 15205
Students, Faculty 
Store your goods 
tor Less!
- easy access 
-you keep the 
key
- sizes 5x5 and 
up
Marrtot
Storage
 Downtown
j^ljJreentreeJU^
W Airport
Pratt School of Art & Design
Summer Study Abroad
Photography in Israel June 30-Jdy 31,1986 $2,555
Landscape, portrait, nude, and various approaches to photoreportage. Excursions ?o Masada, Jerusalem, and the North of Israel. Directed by Philip Perkis.
Total Design in Milan July 7-August 4,1986 $3,ioo
Design history, theory, criticism, and studio work offered in collaboration with the Domus Academy. Critics: Giovanni Pettena, Ezio Manzini, Trini Castelli, Andrea Branzi, Rodolfo Bonetto, F. Binfare and Pierre Restany. Visits to design facilities, production factories and cities of interest to the contemporary designer.
 6 college credits Professional facilities Deluxe accommodations
 Pratt faculty
 Internationally renowned visiting lecturers Regularly scheduled airlines
Graduate credit available at on additional cos* of $180.00
For brochures or information, call B. Warmath, (718) 636-3624 or mail the coupon below.
prottB. Warmath, Pratt School of Art and Design 200 Willoughby Ave. Brooklyn, NY 11205
Please send me a brochure on: ? Photography in Israel ? Total Design in Milan
Name_______________
Address.
City----State.Zip Code

---------------------------------------------------

presents the
Special Carnival Hours & Events
Wednesday  4 pm until 6 am
Caffeine Rush  25 * cokes & coffee 
from 10 pm until closing
Thursday  4 pm until 2 am
Mexican Happy Hour 5 pm Western Caricatures 5 pm -
- 7 pm 
8 pm
Friday  11 am until 2 am
Mexican Happy Hour 5 pm  7 pm Western Caricatures 5 pm  8 pm John Carroll  guitarist 10 pm
Saturday  11 am until 7 pm 
then at midnight 
Party with the Stars! 
Sunday  The Carnival Cure
Continental Brunch from 11 am  2 pm 
Regular hours resume afterwards 
open from 6 pm until 12 midnight

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 5
Cole Porter and the PBT: A perfect match
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre will perform the 
upbeat 1930s-style ballet Cole to close its 
1985-86 season. Cole, choreographed by 
I Wayne Soulant and danced to the music of Cole 
Porter is a short work featuring sophisticated 
waltzes, Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers-style 
w duets and even a fan dance.
Cole Porter, a favorite American composer, 
i reached the height of his popularity in the 
1930s with songs like Anything Goes,  
i "Begin the Beguine and Night and Day, all 
of which are featured in Cole. The ballet score 
[ was originally commissioned by Gary Sheldon, 
who high-lighted sections which used the inI timate and idiomatic sounds of a jazz combo, 
[ the kind of combo that Porter himself scored 
I for.
The elegance of Porters music and Soulants 
'}] choreography will also be reflected in the classic 
I costuming and the art deco set. Cole was 
; premiered last year by the Ballet Metropolitan 
I to great audience and critical acclaim.
Along with Cole, the Ballet Theatre will per
form two more short ballets in the seasons 
I finale: The Four Temperaments and Konigsmark. 
I The Four Temperaments is a ballet in one act 
I with music by Paul Hindemith and
choreography by the legendary George 
Balanchine.
The ballet is based on the ancient Greek 
belief that the human body is comprised of four 
temperaments: Melancholic, Sanguinic,
Phlegmatic and Choleric, which correspond to 
the four elements of Earth, Water, Air and Fire. 
The four sections will feature, in turn, a despon
dent male dancer, followed by a charming waltz 
for a duet, then another male solo and finally, 
the Choleric section features the entire 
ensemble.
Konigsmark, choreographed by the French 
choreographer, Andre Prokovsky, is set to part 
of Tchaikovskys Francesca de Ramini Over
ture. It is a story of intrigue, love and passion 
revolving around a Swedish prince, named 
Konigsmark, his mistress and the beautiful wife 
of Georg-Ludwig, son of the Elector of Hanover. 
The story moves at a compelling pace, rising 
and swelling with Tchaikovskys music. 
Konigsmark has been performed by many Euro
pean companies and received with acclaim.
The repertoire program will be performed on 
Thursday through Saturday, April 24-27. 
Students receive a 50% discount on the regular 
ticket price for Thursdays performance. Dont 
miss this upbeat, and at times jazzy closing to 
the Ballet season.
Half Life, Circus of Death at the Banana
} By MARNI HALASA
1 Special to The Tartan
Performances at the Electric Banana are an 
I artform. The dark damp sweetness arising from 
I the dance of the stomping skinheads, the sweat 
I of disruption reverberating from the audience, 
| and the sound of angry speakers screaming Nazi 
death threats pound enlightnment right through 
I the floorboards. Few appreciate the beauty of 
| this hell hole with the exception of an 
underground youth culture consisting of punkrockers and hardcore bands. However, ap
preciation was shown March 16th when approx
imately 130 souls sacrificed their comfort to 
cram their bodies into the Bananas mucoid en vironment to see a 3-band event featuring Half 
Life, Circus of Death, and Scre&m.
The gig started off with the popular native 
Pittsburgh band Half Life. Monotonous in perj formance, Half Life appealed somewhat to the 
I crowd, but not like they had in the past. They 
began with new material, Who Profits, 
I 'Wasted Day, and Errand of Mercy, which 
pulled the crowd into moshing circles of ecstasy, 
I yet pulled me into a slump of boredom due to 
a the repetition of the same chords and unclear 
l| lyrics. The bands timing was painfully off and 
the rhythm sections beat seemed to be totally 
oblivious to guitar and vocals, but all is not lost, 
s there is a philosophy. Half Life claims they do 
I not want to change the world. They try to stay
away from politics and tend to write more about 
personal relationships. Hence, it would seem 
that either the audience is very relationship 
minded, or fanatically supportive of their 
friends, because for sure it is not the quality 
of the music. Half Life has steadily gone 
downhill with each consecutive show I see, but 
their following gets larger. Has popularity made 
their audience as well as themselves take their 
music for granted? Will generic thrash become 
fashion? Who knows? Who cares? Yet for the 
sake of justice, if music isnt evaluated by its 
simple content, and its competency, how else 
will sincere judgements exist?
Circus of Death was second on the bill. 
Relatively new, they hit a very receptive au
dience with an explosion of metallic melodies 
and pounding rhythms. They began with Cries 
of Pain, Ignorance, and Pissed Off, full 
of captivating dissonance. Their song structure 
consists of an interesting pattern of slow in
troductions/thrash/slow refrains/thrash. This 
emphasized contrast in tempo added a strong 
appealing character to the bands overall per
formance, but why the dive into tedious thrash? 
Its noise boys, all noise. Trash it. There is 
nothing wrong with overwhelming thrash, but 
there is a fine line between musically transform
ed energy and loud disagreeable sounds. The 
key is innovation.
The climaxed with a hypnotic version of Iron
Crosss Crucify for Your Sins in which the 
crowd happily plunged into suicidal rapture, yet 
it was the combination of the slower melodic 
music plus the lead singers voice, reminiscent 
of a youthful Johnny Rotten, richly capturing 
the essence of the late 70s punk era, that was 
truly appealing. There is no doubt that an in
novative potential exists, we have yet to see them 
use it to its fullest extent.
Scream, a band from the Virgina-D.C. area 
was the last to rock. And rock they did with a 
moving, thought provoking performance 
highlighting such songs, Fight, American 
Justice, Gluesniff, and Amerarockers.
Live this band is an ever-consuming project 
that captures ones undivided attentionbut not 
from appearance. Scream is not into fashion, yet 
they are as well captivating with their music, 
stage presence, and most importantly, their 
lyrics.
In performance they play with an inexhaustable vigor. The intrepid Pete Stahl, the 
lead singer, relentlessly jumps, rolls, climbs on 
the stage, floor and amps. Skeeter (bass), forgo
ing the original dreadlocks, and Robert (lead 
guitar) concentrate in a deadlock of harmonic 
intensity, while Kent drums madly into alien 
dimensions. You didnt even have to hear them, 
just watching them would be enough.
The members of Scream say their band is a 
counterculture in which everbody is their own
individual, not conforming to any standard. 
Screams purpose is to make people more 
politically and socially aware of whats going on 
around them, as well as inside them. Interac
tion with the audience during performaces is 
important to Scream. However, its hard to ac
complish this state of consciousness when 95% 
of the time people are going off to the music 
and not really listening or thinking about what 
the lyrics are saying. They say that sometimes 
you can give something to someone, but if they 
dont take it, its not going to happen. Such is 
the case during Screams performance at the 
Banana. It did not happen. For the majority of 
the show, ten or 12 people crowded the stage 
while most of the crowd hovered in the back. 
The band gave everything, and in awkward 
times of desperation went faster rhythms, and 
funkier thrash while Petes wails of woe tried 
to grasp any leftover fragment of sensitivity. Un
fortunately it was of no use. The crowds indif
ference was so overwhelming it was embarrass
ing. The band stopped to a pocket pool oriented 
audience.
Screams performance was not given justice. 
I cannot understand why the crowd could not 
appreciate such a soul-wrenching gig. But more 
so, I cannot understand why almost everyone 
was enveloped in an aura of apathy. It has made 
me question their capacity to hold emotion, and 
their ability think.
Cartoon Exhibit
PITTSBURGH: The Art of Opinion, an in
ternational cartoon exhibition made up of 129 
original works from 43 leading editorial car
toonists, has been arranged by the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette and the Toledo Blade. This exhibit 
will open at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
n March 30 through April 20, 1986 as the 
final exhibition of Political Art 86.
The exhibit is being presented by William and 
Paul Block, Jr., co-publishers of the 
newspapers, as part of the observance of the 
Post-Gazettes 200th anniversary this year and 
I the Blades 150th birthday reached in 1985.
1 have long admired the political cartoon 
I ^t unique combination of ideas and art, con
fined into a quiet small space and drawn within 
 a prescribed time limit, William Block, com
ments in a catalog introduction to the collection.
Humor, satire, ironythese are the weapons 
by which cartoonists seek the truth. This exhibi
tion gives the viewer a look at some of the best 
practioners of the art working today.
Among the cartoonists represented are 
Patrick Oliphant, Universal Press Syndicate; 
Jeffery MacNelly, Chicago Tribune; Bill 
Mauldin, Chicago Sun-Times; and M.G. Lord 
of Newsday, one of the first female political car
toonists to be syndicated nationally.
The cartoonists were invited to provide two 
cartoons on a subject of their own choosing and 
a third dealing specifically with the last 
presidential election.
The collection was most recently at OwensIllinois World Headquarters in Toledo and will 
travel to PPG Wintergarden April 24 through 
May 9 and to the Harford Courant in early fall.
At Forbes Gallery
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Jim Denney, a professor in CMUs Depart
ment of Art, will curate the Forbes Gallerys an
nual juried show opening tonight at 7 PM. 
Refreshments served and the public is invited.
Denney says that the juried show has no 
themes, no survey of any particular style or 
manner of art. Instead, he has chosen work in 
various media-painting, drawing, sculpture, 
prints-which, he says, I think would be in
teresting with each other....Im interested in 
works that will cause speculation and intrigue 
in the viewer. He says that many levels of 
education in art will be represented, from 
graduate students and expert painters to 
beginners.
He stresses that the work shown is selected 
according to his own vision: No compromise. 
I dont have to be fair. At the same time, theres 
very high quality work being done here, and 
people should see it. Since Denney plans to 
select a group of work and then experiment with 
its arrangement in the gallery space, the con
tent of the show represents an individual and 
extemporaneous treatment of the space; the ex
hibit will combine both the eyes of the in
dividual artists and the eye of the curator.
On Thursday at the Forbes Gallery, the 
CMU Writers Guild will host a Reading at 
Forbes. Four student writers will read from 
their work, starting at 7 p.m. Once again, 
refreshments are served and the public is 
invited.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 15, 1986
Sugar Babies hits the Syria Mosque next week
PITTSBURGHThe original Broadway pro
duction of Sugar Babies, the smash hit burles
que musical starring Mickey Rooney and Ann 
Miller, has been added to the 1986 Broadway 
Series presented by Pace Theatrical Group, 
Heinz Hall and the Pittsburgh Symphony Socie
ty. Sugar Babies will be staged at the Syria 
Mosque, in Oakland, in nine performances bet
ween April 22 and April 27.
Described as the ultimate burlesque 
musical. Sugar Babies is a three-million dollar 
musical extravaganza replete with fourteen 
showgirls (the Sugar Babies), a male ensemble, 
a ventriloquist, a gallery of comics, fan dancers, 
a tribute to Little Egypt, a candy butcher, a strip 
tease, girls in garters, an opera interlude, girls 
on swings, a minstral number, blackouts and 
sketchs, a soubrette covered in live doves, a jug
gler/comedian, a rousing patriotic finale and 
dozens of other treats including two of the 
greatest stars ever seen on the musical stage, 
the legendary Mickey Rooney and Ann Miller.
On October 8, 1979, Sugar Babies opened 
on Broadway to fantastic critical and popular 
acclaim, becoming an instant sell-out and the 
seasons first small hit. The show received eight 
1980 Tony Award nominations and Mickey 
Rooney was honored with the coveted Theatre 
World Award. Now in its 7th year. Sugar Babies 
and original stars Mickey Rooney and Ann 
Miller, have chalked up over 2,000 perfor
mances on Broadway and across the country.
Sugar Babies is conceived by Ralph G. Allen 
and Harry Rigby, staged and choreographed by 
Ernest 0. Flatt with sketches directed by Rudy 
Tronto. The music is by Jimmy McHugh, which 
includes his hit songs On the Sunny Side of 
the Street and I cant Give You Anything But 
Love, Baby and some previously unpublish
ed songs for which Arthur Malvin has supplied 
new lyrics. Ralph G. Allen has supplied the 
sketch material, based on traditional material. 
Sets and costumes are by Raoul Pene du Bois 
with lighting by gilbert V, Hemsley, Jr. Or
chestrations are by Dick Hyman, and dance 
music is arranged by Arnold Gross. Vocal ar
rangements are by Arthur Malvin. The entire 
production is supervised by Ernest O, Flatt and 
produced by Terry Allen Kramer and Harry 
Rigby in association with Columbia Pictures.
Performances take place at 8 p.m. nightly, 
Tuesday through Saturday, and at 2:00 p.m. 
matinees on Thursday, Saturday and Sunday, 
tickets are priced at $30.50, 28.50, 26.50 and 
24.50 evenings and at $28.50, 26.50, 24.50 
and 22.50, matinees. They are available at 
Heinz Hall Box Office and at all Kaufmanns 
and Gimbels ticket outlets. Tickets may be 
charged to VISA, MasterCard and American 
Express at 392-4900.
Remaining Broadway Series productions are 
breamgirls, June 17-22, and My One and Only, 
August 19-24. Both shows will be staged at 
Heinz Hall. Additional information about re
maining Broadway show dates is available by 
telephone at 281-5000.Mickey Rooney will star in Sugar Babies along with Ann Miller.
Frick Museum presents Dutch gardens
PITTSBURGH, PAMarch 14, 1986. Gardens 
of Earthly Delight: Sixteenth and SeventeenCentury Netherlandish Gardens will open at The 
Frick Art Museum in Point Breeze on Thurs
day, April 3.
Second in the series of temporary exhibitions 
begun by The Frick Art Museum last fall, 
Gardens of Earthly Delight is the first organiz
ed specifically for the museum by its new 
curator Kahren J. Hellerstedt. As the show has 
been assembled since Dr. Hellerstedts appoint
ment to The Frick Art Museum in July 1985, 
it will not travel; it will be seen only in Pittsburgh 
and only until May 18.
Works in the exhibition range in date from 
1565 to the late seventeenth century and in
clude oils, etchings, engravings, drawings, and 
rare books.
Although Gardens of Earthly Delight crowns 
The Frick Art Museums spring series on garden 
history and landscape architecture, the exhibi
tion does not focus on the appearance or struc
ture of Dutch gardens. Rather it calls upon the 
tradition of emblematic art and stresses not only 
what and how the artist painted, but why.
Divided into four sections, the exhibition ex
plores the artists' use of lush, imaginary gardens 
as settings for allegories, myths, biblical tales, 
amatory encounters, and, most extensively, Dr. 
Hellerstedts special interest, the buitenpartijen 
or outdoor party. The buitenpartijen, a new art
istic genre of the early decades of the seven
teenth century, was a by-product of the 
Netherlandish traditon and the new affluence 
of the Dutch Republic. The final paintings in 
'he show provide still lovely gardens, stripped 
of icongraphic significance, that serve simply 
as settings for the family portraits of the rich.
While the lenders to the exhibition range from 
giant museums to private collectors, the works 
shown are assembled mostly from the eastern 
United States. Speaking of this relatively nar
row range, Dr. Hellerstedt comments that 
although there are items one could have wish
ed to include if a wider net could have been 
cast, from our selection the viewer can come
Pittsburgh Opera...
continued from page 1
ty of the necessary emotions went unexpress
ed. But to be fair, Tomagian sang a Morir! 
Tronenda cosa! that exhibited a strong, even, 
full voice possessing great skill and technique.
The cosmic Brother Melitone was played in 
a very human manner that relied more on 
characterization than slapstick. Juan Pedro Gar
cia Marques stressed the shortcomings that 
made Melitone a person. While Alvar is driven 
by fate to kill off the Calatrava clan, Carlo is 
obsessed with revenge, and while Leonora is 
driven by massive guilt to a life of seclusion and 
insanity, Melitone must deal with the everyday. 
He gets upset when asked to do favors out of 
season. He gets angry at a crowd of ungrateful 
beggars. He wants to know the identity of 
mysterious hermits. This was conveyed by the 
simple gesture of moving his lantern a tiny bit 
closer to Leonoras shrouded face. Marques 
voice large but flexible and the patter of Toh! 
Toh! Poffare il mondo! (Whew! Whew! Land 
sakes alive!) was never garbled. His tone was 
rich and expressive.
Susanne Marsee, seen here last January in Cosi 
Fan Tutte, had the smallest voice and was fre
quently drowned out by the orchestra. Com
plicating this was a vocal thinness that did not 
allow the production of a full tone. As an ac
tress she was able to achieve a whole range of 
emotions with simple body and facial gestures.
The role of Father Guardiano is very limited 
with few moments to shine. John Tomlinson 
compensated with a bass that was rich and lux
uriously velvety. Full of range, emotion, and 
vocal color his was the most aurally satisfying 
performance of the evening.
Patricia Griffin (Leonoras maid), Kenneth 
Cox (The Marquis), David Orcott (military 
surgeon), and David Dreher (a peddler), made 
their brief appearances and sung with skill.
The chorus sang and acted well in the crowd 
scenes. The exception was the scene in the 
church where the male chorus was hardly ever 
together.
Bodo Igesz, director, made efficient use of the 
stage. The already mentioned crowd scenes 
were never cluttered with a bunch of people who 
did not know what to do. Unfortunately, this 
production was dark in every scene and so 
much so that those in the back of the hall had 
problems seeing the action. I was disappointed 
that in the church scene Leonora and the monks 
pray to an offstage cross. Or rather two offstage 
crosses. It was distracting and a great deal of 
intensity was lost. Sets were flimsy and 
uninteresting.
Spring Carnival 
We play hardball
aePgB BPeyy L 9Idermatologist
easily accessible by bus from CMU
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-5050
MasterCard, Visa accepted 
Call appointment
North Craig Street
Large two-bedroom furnished apart
ment. Available May 1, 1986
$350 Plus Utilities 
Call 751-9639 or 621-0610
to understand both the iconographic complex
ities and sensual pleasures that dwell within 
Gardens of Earthly Delight.
The art can be enjoyed on its own. For in
creased enjoyment, free docent tours will be 
given at 2 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays 
through the run of the show, and Dr. Hellerstedt 
has written an eighty page, fully illustrated, fourcolor catalogue that is available at the museums 
sales desk or through the Indiana University 
Press in Bloomington.
The Frick Art Museum, at 7227 Reynolds 
Street, is open Wednesday through Sunday. Ad
mission is free. It is accessible to the 
handicapped.

---------------------------------------------------

SMnctcN YMnAtirdv,nn Yni,A3 Yn,mtAn l5, P55w ic:n9
Original Hot Dog Shop
Forbes Avenue 
9 a.m.-4:30 a.m. Sun.-Thurs. 
9 a.m.-6 p.m. Fri.-Sat.
Largest Selection of Imports 
in the City
Try our new Vz pound 
freshly ground hamburger 
32 varieties
fl
\\For your entertainment,
The Top of the O, above the O, 
features entertainment Friday and Saturday
-large selection of imports available for consumption on premises 
-table service
?rip
I USED, OUT OF PRINT 
AND RARE BOOKS ON
? ? ALL SUBJECTS ? ? 
FINE ART I BIOGRAPHY 
HISTORY & LITERATURE 
AMERICANA I EPHEMERA 
I SHEET MUSIC 1 MAPS
? POSTCARDS I BOOK 
SEARCH SERVICE ???
? ?BOOKS ANDDDD
? EPHEMERA BOUGHT ?
 1404 S. NEGLEY AVENUE
? SQUIRREL HILL, NEAR ?
? ? WILKINS AVE. ? ?
? ? 412/521-8464 ? ?
Tues-Sat. 11-6, Thursday until 9 And by appointment.
Dmm de camp ? ? 
Him: SELVAGG10 ? D
?LJd
Women's 
Health Servicesinc.
Gyne Care that is 
Woman-Centered
 Professional & Convenient
 Femoie & Mole Practitioners
 Complete Check-ups
 Contraceptive Services
During your check-up, ask for your free 
copy of Our Bodies, Ourselves.
Appointments & Information 107 Sixth Street562-1900 Downtown Pittsburgh
KITARO Silk Road KITARO Silk Road 
?
NEW AGE
a unique blend of classical and jazz
Gramavtsion Records and Tapes
SIVt* HAi.H.RN 
tVIMTIOl
OTHER TITLES BY 
STEVEN HALPERN 
ALSO ON SALE. . .JUST 6.99!
 Rhythms of Vision  Spectrum  Recollections
 Comfort Zone  Timeless  Soft Focus
BETHEL PARK 
Library Road 
(833-9222)
BOARDMAN PLAZA
Youngstown
(216-726-8884)
DOWNTOWN 
6th & Oliver 
(261-1075)
MONROEVILLE MALL 
Main EntranceUpper Level (856-7330)
NORTH HILLS McKnight Road 
(367-2646)
OAKLAND 
Forbes Ave. 
(687-9433)

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Zurkby Nabil Liumang
I GIVE UP. I DON'T KNOW WHAT 
To foLUMJ KX TH15 SCHOOUanymore, r ve TKiep au. mKCMHU WIOM5, *ND
oNt nekC
I ve *een wm\ w xeue.*** TISoTU, TWo-Sf UeRN, ycv^, 
WNO a WrtoU ^v*oU of 
*. woNcw \f -met mc::
>>S\ Hi- TC oouUp Offe* 
9oAe weu, OONV0 SOUTHIDE
How Aowt 7M MSotiLTtoU of
CONSERVATIVE IGUANA. &K6W0RS 
ACAtNST OVERSIZED ToEKMCcwPPe?5?
]fleW* YeAK,T BT A 
TWf GKfAT TUINKf& BELaM T TUKT<*>6.
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh
weo, 15 , -rue su
ft , Awt> eveitvoMe^ >s
WHVlN^ lA <iHeT TII^. IT-STEWS 
AS IF WCfTHlNi, 0DUU5 CO OO'BtOC!
ff
ff
Poindexterby Don Beyer
VvVtvi^ve-yiAJP \ Ito yL/ pptMI^OUr^f- IT ?)
$- MUG? (2fcA0/ } '7
po(t- AJM'v/A^ .
weuu
HamEio 
V^K- 0/ 
IW'
TT
Inkspots by Kurt Shaw
Til be back at noon....Vm going out for a byte to eat.
Doak Stryker and the Stockholm Six 27 6-08ip7p
UNGH
Lady With the Large Butt Comix
Why I u/as >ryou Amerei y mcfs/eiin fooHiQsJ ^ fyhe near^
incomprehensible largeness of your butt
27 Zurkb y0brkiN
Comics in the News
rfg&rM
Mr. President, there seems i

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTY  Student Dormitory Council by Berke Breathed
The Digressional
ya0lLp 27 mpna grl0n
kiN olbp oLeEca
Well, GOD doesnt make it snow in April.
by Nabil Liumang
ncK Toc
packages for you today.
Fuund Ye~.Ve/1wvr'ORPGR TWONO. FOUR HUNPREP RONCO SUPBR
COMItomNftMptrm 
Ml?
mvit 
mmk
seuoumTb...eFby ActiTHEM...
\
. 70 IM6LPA MARCOS IN HWJA/t,C.O.P..
yess/Ree /
SURE m GLAPmeymNSFemp Mem ev* PERSONALS*..
PMM... NEWSPAPER PHOTOGRAPHeR... MOSTLY 7AKIN' PICTURES OF PIGEONS ANP fl/65
st im pm, 13FZCT...
<3
SBPA TE..seRBNe...NO CONFRONTATION..
VOW/ lhf$ 15 MY TYPE OFjoef
SEAN PBNN HAS 5EEN SPOTIZP N6AR&Y. 00 SIC W.
HIM THAT'S me pink moseUPS MAPONNA CHEWS ON ?
m MUSTee wap...He' FOMING.1M,
emu
0PU6 ?/ mepe m You ? -me violence te weR / sieve's bbbn sbntjoTH6 HOSPITAL... OPUS /
Tar You Tt ve 7
I
ONe CAN ONLY IMAGINE THE MONSTROUS HORROR OF A SAVAte
CCar cgbbb cgbbb
2
BLOOM COUNTY
SfEIAL
LAWYERANP PART-TIME PHOTOGRAPHER sieve SuA uns ApMmep Ce we ACb vlBtFeC.MFMORIAL HOSPITAL TOPffY, SUFFERING FROM COTS OF BRVtSet ANP A BROKEN PACK.. A RESULT OF AN APPARENT ASSAULT BY ACTOR SeAN PBNN
-me veJJePsth cJuBBg iFeCeyTAkeN BY m VICTIM, APPEARS TO CAPTURE me NeANPeKTHAL 7HUG ONLY MOMENTS BEFORE TOTAL CHAOS PPmOUT...
A REWARP OF *32.61 IS BeiNG OFFEREP FOR-rue iBeSiC peuveRYOF MOST ANY SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF MR. PENN'S ANATOMY TOTHe PESK OF MILO BLOOM AT m BLOOM BEACON.
MRS. PENN IS OtSOUAUFlBP FROM THIS OFFER.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 15, 1986
A little too much of a good thing in Gung Ho
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Have you ever had a mixed drink that is 
prepared with only the finest ingredients, yet 
proportioned so improperly that it does not taste 
as good as expected? If so, then you will unders
tand how I feel about the movie Gung Ho (Para
mount). The actors, director, writers, and musi
cians are all top notch, but somehow the pic
ture isnt quite what we have come to expect 
from such talent.
Directed by Ron Howard and starring 
Michael Keaton, Gung Ho features the direc
tor/actor team that was responsible for the suc
cess of Night Shift in 1982. Here, like in their 
earlier effort, Howard lets Michael Keaton be 
Michael Keaton. And as a result of this, the film 
has a natural and believable feel to it.
Gung Ho is a comedy/social commentary 
about the cultural differences between the 
United States and Japan. The story line is clear, 
simple, and realistic (it is baaed on a segment 
that aired on 60 Minutes). A small town in 
western Pennsylvania, Hadleyville (much of the 
filming took place in and around Pittsburgh) has 
depended upon the local auto plant for its only 
source of economic livelihood. The plant has
been shut down and the town is crumbling. 
Enter Hunt Stevenson (Keaton), who travels to 
Japan to convince Assan Motors to rejuvenate 
the plant. Of course the Japanese agree, and 
the rest of the movie deals with the East meets 
West culture battle.
Instead of becoming just apple pie versus 
sushi, Gung Ho (slang for work together) 
takes on a more serious look. Unlike so many 
pro-USA films on the screens (Rambo II,Rocky 
IV) this film points out the defects in our socie
ty as well as Japans. The film is about mistakes 
made on both sides, and then what each must 
do to rectify them.
The film centers around the relationship bet
ween Stevenson, the employee representative, 
and the plant manager Kazahiro (played by 
Gedde Wantanabe). Their characters are equal
ly likable and their performances are equally 
brilliant. Both Keaton and Wantanbe play their 
roles with a genuine and natural viewpoint that 
it is hard to pick sides in the movie. Both are 
put in extremely precarious predicaments. Hunt 
must convince his men that they have to give 
up a lot of benefits in order for the plant to 
operate. And Kazahiro must produce a profit 
from a plant that employs American workers
(who put family before the company).
Every time these two are on the screen, we 
see their insecurities and anxieties shine 
through. They are constantly at each others 
throat, yelling about how bad the others coun
try is. The insults on both sides are not crude
or offensive, but rather humorous and insightful.
Keaton delivers his lines with his snappy style 
and cocky attitude. Because Keaton looks and 
feels the part, his performance is brilliant yet 
not overly theatrical. He never lets himself get 
caught in the trap of being some kind of super
hero, he is just a ordinary guy put into an ex
traordinary position. When Keaton is dealing 
with the American workers, you get the sense 
that they trust him yet dont quite believe him. 
Who could blame them, with the look on 
Keatons face almost trust me, I would never 
do anything to hurt you, well almost anything.
Wananabe takes on a more subtle approach. 
You may recognize Wantanabe from 16 
Candles as the exchange student Long Duck 
Dong, but here his part is not nearly as 
degrading or falsly stereotypical. He is sent over 
to manage the plant under tremendous pressure 
to produce at levels comprable to plants in his 
homeland. Thus he must deal with the 
American way doing things in the workplace 
and in the home. His kids watch MTV and his 
wife shops at Sears while at work the local 
workers want too much money and time off. On 
screen you can see the conflict within him- one 
side a very traditional Japanese worker, the 
other, a sensitive and understanding family 
man. Wantanabe plays both with excellence and 
conviction. One point late in the film, where he 
and Keaton are having a few ICs at the local 
bowling alley, he even beats Keaton at his own 
game- spontaneous comedy.
Whether these two are working together or 
separately, they are a pleasure to watch.
As I mentioned earlier, this movie is not quite 
proportioned properly and the culprit is the 
script, or lack of, involving everyone else ex
cept Keaton and Wantanabe. Both George 
Wendt and Mimi Rodgers, as Keatons best 
buddy and love interest respectively, have such 
minor supporting roles that it is hard to grasp 
their characters. Screen writers Lowell Ganz 
and Babaloo Mandel give Keaton and Wan
tanabe ALL the good lines and in the process 
smother the rest of the cast, which is quite 
talented (including Soh Yamamura who is one 
of Japans most revered actors).
It is hard to imagine how the director of one 
of the finest ensemble pieces in years, Cocoon, 
would let this happen. Obviously Howard feels 
comfortable letting Keaton do his own thing, 
perhaps too comfortable. Technicaly speaking, 
Howards direction is superb. His use of camera 
angles, music, and especially his pacing are all 
right on the money. Also, his story telling abili
ty has not deserted him either. Though the 
movie has its faults, it moves along at a smooth 
pace. One more thing worth mentioning is Stevie 
Ray Vaughan guitar work. His gritty sound fits 
perfectly over the assembly line scenes.
Although Gung Ho has its defects its hardly 
enough for a recall by the manufacturer. Like 
one of the workers on the line says, every car 
has a few defects, nobodys perfect.
Tartan Movie Grade 3.25
FfflDNG AN APARTMENT
N MANHATTAN TAKES 
THE RIGHT EDUCATION
Get a free copy of Manhattan Moves 
the insiders guide to finding an affordable 
apartment in Manhattan.
To welcome potential new 
residents to the city, and dispel 
some myths about housing in 
New York, we have published a 
book called Manhattan Moves.
Its the ultimate insiders guide 
to apartment hunting in the 
Big Apple.
Manhattan Moves helps 
you set your sights on the right 
type of apartment and location. It 
takes you on a tour of the citys 
neighborhoods, introduces you to 
the available housing, gives you 
vital facts about transportation, 
housing laws, renting, sharing, and 
much more.
The book gives you inside 
advice on actually finding the 
apartment youve targeted. It helps 
you find the hottest listings, tells you 
how to canvas, and how to select 
a broker.
Send for a free copy of 
Manhattan Moves today. It wont 
guarantee you a Manhattan apart
ment, but it will definitely get you 
moving in the right direction.
TO: MANHATTAN MOVES MILFORD MANAGEMENT,1271 AVENUE OF THE AMERICAS, NEW YORK, N Y. 10020
Send me a copy of Manhattan Moves, The Insiders Guide to finding an Apartment in Manhattanfree without cost or obligation.
Your Name
Snhnnl
Address
r.itv StateZin
Home Artrirftss
Hity StateZip
Phone No.Or Call Toll Free 1(800) 247-4041

---------------------------------------------------

April 15, 1986The TartanPage 11
Dad works hard for your money.So show him how understanding you can be. Fly to London on Virgin Atlantic.Itll only set him back $199, when you take advantage of our Sameday Fare.And youll get all our extras at no extra charge.So stop by your old mans travel agent
the next chance you get.Or call us at (212) 242-1330 or (201) 623-0500.After all your fathers done for you, its the least you can do for him.
VIRGIN AIU^C AIRWAYAll our extras at no extra charge.
F!Y TO LONDON RE JUST 
OFTOUREOHEKS MONEY
By MARK CARR
Tartan Poetry Critic
Carolyn Doty read fiction in the Adamson 
Wing on the evening of April 9th. She is the 
author of A Day Late and Fly Away Home. Much 
of Dotys work depicts the lifestyles and land
scapes of the American West. A native of Utah, 
she lives in California and has taught at the 
University of California-Irvine and San Fran
cisco State.
The first story Doty read, however, concern
ed New Yorks street people. Set in Manhattan, 
this short piece is an exercise in speculation. 
The narrator becomes increasingly curious 
about a well-dressed woman who haunts the 
street outside her apartment. She imagines the 
derelict to be an unhappy hieress and constructs 
and elaborate scenario explaining her fate. In 
the course of these fantasies, the narrator 
reveals much about her own character and the 
way she relates to people. The authors careful 
eye for detail and skilled use of exposition (a 
technique many writers shy away from) com
bined to make the story vivid and effective.
Doty also read the first chapter of A Day Late 
, which depicts the anguish of a traveling 
salesman whose daughter has died of cancer. 
Against the backdrop of the Arizona desert, he 
searches for affection and tries to blot out his 
grief. In a small diner, he broods over his guilt 
and takes comfort in the attentions of a waitress. 
The desert salt flats serve as a metaphor for his 
sense of loss and emptiness.
Dotys prose displays a depth of feeling for 
the people and territory she describes. Her 
reading would have been more entertaining if 
she had spoken with similar emotion; she rare
ly made use of inflection and her voice tended 
toward a monotone. For the purposes of a public 
reading, she might have read with a livelier 
style. Nonetheless, the quality of her fiction 
marks her as a perceptive and sensitive 
craftswoman.
Carolyn Doty's apperarance was sponsored by 
the CMU Visiting Writers Series.
IN MEMORIUM: John Caiardi, whose Pitt
sburgh reading I reviewed last week, recently 
died of a heart attack. We at The Tartan mourn 
I the passing of this fun-loving man of letters and 
extend our sympathies to his family.
Netherlands Dance Theatre performs next week
PITTSBURGHAs the second of its three 
spring programs, the Pittsburgh Dance Coun
cil will present the Netherlands Dance Theatre 
Junior, on April 21 at 8 p.m. in Heinz Hall.
The Netherlands Dance Theatre Junior began 
in 1959, when a group of rebel dancers and 
choreographers, anxious to free themselves 
from traditional dance, decided to explore the 
V structure of contemporary forms. Eager and 
malleable, the company absorbed the new spirit 
of American dance vocabulary into their own 
European classical training.
The experiment was an instant success. Train
ed daily in classical technique and equally at 
home on pointe or barefoot, the company 
developed an exceptional spirit and strength that 
won it acclaim as one of the major comtemporary dance companies throughout Europe, 
America, and-Australia. In contrast to other resi
dent companies, the NDT Junior has no star 
4 ... system, but relies on dancers with distinct personalites who are all soloists in their own right.
Since 1979, the companys major 
choreographic spirit has been Jiri Kylian, its ar
tistic director and one of Europes most soughtafter choreographers. Kylian has steadily inI jected his own fluid and supple lines into the
CMU Visitingj: Writers Series presents...
ensembles unique repertoire, creating a 
seamless blend of classical and free styles. Pitts
burgh audiences will see the 13-member tour
ing company perform his Nomaden to the 
music of Stravinsky, and the trademark 
Cathedrale Engloutie to Debussy. Two of the 
four works on the program will be accompanied 
by a concert pianist.
The Netherlands Dance Theatre Junior has 
done the impossible, said Margeaux Singleton, 
PDC Executive Director. It has combined the 
elegance and discipline of classical ballet with 
the driving passion of modern dance into one 
stunning performance style. The result is an ex
traordinary virtuosity that will delight both ballet 
lovers and modern dance aficionados.
The companys spring tour will include per
formances in Paris, Madrid, Frankfurt, The 
Hague, Seattle, Sarasota, and the Metropolitan 
Opera House in New York City.
Tickets for the NDT Junior program are 
available now through the Heinz Hall Box Of
fice (Monday through Friday, 10 a.m.-6 p.m., 
Saturday 12 noon-6 p.m.), by calling TicketCharge at 392-4900 or the PDC Office at 
355-0330 (8 a.m.-6 p.m. weekdays), as well 
as Kaufmanns, Gimbels and TIX.

---------------------------------------------------

 cufOH AU3T'v0
...''us' o "sVaVi 1
: V    \   */. a A31 so 
W*  >auUaa^'.rgPoa|asM

---------------------------------------------------

Illustration by Dave Biber
Illustration by Michael P. McHugh
Illustration by Rob Yaffe
[STATE) ALCOUOL BOARD
Illustration by Nabil Liumang
>

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 15, 1986
The Stones, Noise and more from the Syndicate
By THE SYNDICATE
Tartan Record Critics
Art Of Noise 
In Visible Silence 
China Records
The latest release from Art Of Noise In Visi
ble Silence, demonstrates continual use of both 
the unique sound editing and experimentation 
of the trio. Yes, the industrial sounds and the 
aggresively edited voices as are all here, but this 
album represents ne,w exploration and more 
variations on the theme.
Previous albums leaned towards dance/funk 
and a often offbeat sound. Those themes are 
present here but listeners aquainted with the 
group will find a new element - more mellow, 
ambiant manner.
Legs represents the danciests number on 
the album and has been doing the Top 40 cir
cuit for a few weeks. Their remix of the Peter 
Gun Theme uses pure percussion and 
primitive electric guitar with a modern, pro
gressive sound (is it a voice, or is it a 
synthesizer?).
Listen to this alburn- youll hear elation, fear 
(Paranoimia), sadness- true emotion from 
familiar sounds of both instruments and sounds 
from todays world.
In the same manner as they presented images 
of war on a previous album, Art of Noise creates 
a vivid image of political oppression in South 
Africa. Not with poetic lyrics, but by mixing ac
tual public statements and emotion packed 
music. Instruments of Darkness opens with 
a recorded voice ... I have given instructions 
for appropriate steps to be taken to restore law 
and order. An ominous overture. The fuse 
is lit... musical images of tension and destruc
tion... It isnt said but its there. Literal excerpts 
of public speeches with expressive music pro
ves to be a powerful vehicle for emotion.
NITE LIZARD
The Rolling Stones 
Dirty Work 
CBS Records
After one listens to the Rolling Stones newest 
album, Dirty Work, for the first time, all doubt 
that the band wall rock no more is erased. Yet, 
a few additional listenings quickly makes it ob
vious that the last of the supergroups will soon 
be dead.
Initially the songs lively beat attracts the 
listener to Dirty Work. But then, one notices 
something which is rather disturbing: the Stones 
have developed REO Speedwagon syn
drome. Yes, thats right! Most of the songs 
sound the same. A few different guitar chords 
and some new words are all that enable anyone 
to discern between them.
There are a few glimmers of hope. The title 
song, Dirty Work, and One Hit (to the body) have 
good rhythm and are enlivened by Jaggers 
relentless energy. But they do not differ enough 
from the majority to be classified as good tunes.
One of two songs not featuring Jagger on lead 
vocals is also decent. Sleep Tonight has a bit 
of Dire Straits sound to it. However, the song 
is a long way from the top ten. In fact, I have 
yet to hear it on the radio.
The only other above average song is Harlem 
Shuffle. Its tempo is much slower than that of 
most of the songs. What I dont understand is 
why it was the first song released. Harlem Shuf
fle is hardly a good indicator of what the rest 
of Dirty Work is like. A thirty-second long piano 
piece at the end of the album (it is not even 
listed) also exhibits this jazz elementbut it is 
also too little too late.
If the Stones were trying to tie the album 
together with a unifying theme in the manner 
of the Moody Blues, they really missed the boat.
Simply stated, Dirty Work is a disappointment. 
It is difficult to understand how a group which 
created such classics as Paint it Black and 
Honky Tonk Woman could produce such trash.
Perhaps theyve been taking too many of 
mothers little helpers. Then again, maybe they 
havent been taking enough.
JAY SCHRAGER
Elvis Costello 
King of America 
CBS Records
Costello came in 1978 when, in the midst of 
his first Stateside tour, he performed a volatile 
live set on NBCs Saturday Night. In perhaps 
his proudest moment as the definitive Angry 
Young Man, Costello tore into FM radio with 
the unrelenting Radio Radio. Ten years and a 
dozen albums later, Costello has mellowedat 
least on the surface. Gone are the quixotic jerks 
of an anorexic Buddy Holly, along with the 
mouth almighty that threatened his career on 
more than one occasion: What remains is 
perhaps the most refined pop lyricist in the 
business. Whats more, with the release of the 
single, Dont Let Me Be Misunderstood (a 
remake of the Animals classic) Elvis appears to 
be on the verge of the broader acceptance he 
has so long sought in America.
After a two year hiatus from recording, 
Costello is back - this time, as Declan Patrick 
Aloysius MacManus (his real name), having 
gone to court to legally lay to rest the fictitious 
Elvis. Unlike John Cougar Mellencamp, 
however, Mr. MacManus still answers to his 
stage name. This years entry is titled, King of 
America, and is credited to The Costello Show 
(Featuring Elvis Costello). This, the first time 
since his debut Elvis has played sans his ace 
sidekicks, The Attractions. The album features 
in excess of a dozen musiciansfrom former 
members of Elvis Presleys band, to jazz sessionist, Jerry Scheff, to Los Lobos Dave 
Hidalgo. The result is an uncommonly textured 
work, reminiscent of the 1982 milestone, Im
perial Bedroom.
The album marks a return to the often unkind 
self-analysis lacking on Elvis last two records. 
The first track Brilliant Mistake is a retrospective look at the career of a critics pet/ was 
a fine idea at the time, now Im a brilliant 
mistake.... Here, as in other tracks, subtle 
traces of the old Elvis come peaking through. 
The lyrics allude to the bitterness and frustra
tion unleashed in such early classics as "Im 
Not Angry, and Lipstick Vogue. The pro
duction, by both Elvis and comrade, T-Bone 
Burnette is sparse and tasteful, highlighting 
acoustic guitars (handled exceptionally well by 
Costello himselfa man whos guitar work has 
been referred to as grinding in the past), 
brushes and a lush double-bass. With Indoor 
Fireworks, a song originally penned for pal 
Nick Lowe, Costello shows his deftness in 
manipulating a single metaphor for an extend
ed period without seeming contrived.
Side Two is more of the samethrough the 
accordian tinged, American Without Tears 
and the smoke-filled cabaret of Poisoned 
Rose, to the infectuous slap of The Big 
Light, a satirists tribute to a hangover.
Suit of Lights (the only tune on which the 
Attractions play) is a eulogy to Costellos father, 
Ross MacManus, a once popular Big Band 
leader. The lyric recounts the downfall of a 
classic tragic hero, the despondent musician 
subject to the whims of a restless audiences. ... 
they pulled him out of the cold, cold ground and 
they put him in a suit of lights. 
The albums closing song, Sleep of the Just 
is a lifting memorial to whatever Declan Mac
Manus resents about Elvis Costelloa sentimen
tal farewell to the nervous energy of an 
obsessive alter ego, And now you say that 
you ve got to go if you must you must I suppose 
you need the sleep of the just...
DAN WEIR
Wrestlemania II: The event to end all events
By JOE BOLTZ
Tartan Wrestling Critic
Last weekend at the Syria Mosque I was 
witness to event I will not soon forget. I have 
never seen so many drunken, tatooed people 
gathered together in one place. But the people 
there were ready to witness the greatest spor
ting event ever in the history of mankind, 
Wrestlemania II, What the world has come 
to.
The crowd was in an extremely intense mood. 
You could cut the smoke-riddled air with a 
knife. The people were waiting for the barn
burner of bam-burners, the white-knuckler of 
white-knucklers. OK, OK. Enough cliches, but 
its wrestling!! An evening of body slams and 
suplexes was just about ready to begin.
The first match in this wrestling extravagan
za was Mr. Wonderful, Paul Orondorf vs. The 
Magnificent One, Don Muraco. Muraco was led 
into the ring by his manager, the sinister Mr. 
Fugi. The two men traded off body slams and 
punches and the wrestlers ended up out on the 
hard concrete floor. Of course the wrestlers 
were both counted out of the ring and a draw 
was issued.
The next match was for the Inter-Continental 
Championship and it pitted the champion Ran
dy Macho Man Savage against the wildest 
wrestler in the World Wrestling Federation: 
George the Animal Steele. As usual, George 
brought in a flower for the Macho Mans 
manager, Elizabeth. The Animal tears up a 
turnbuckle; Savage blatantly disregards the 
rules and uses the ropes to his advantage and 
wins the match to the dismay of the audience.
In probably the only loser match George 
Will was pinned and then humiliated by Jake
the Snake Roberts. Roberts used a 20-foot-long 
python to psych out his opponents.
Next came one of the main events: Rowdy 
Roddy Piper boxed Mr. T in a ten-round fight. 
This is occured because of what happened on 
Saturdays Main Event, when Piper whipped 
Mr. T with a belt. Piper knocks down Mr. T in 
the second round, but Mr. T reverses that and 
knocks Piper down twice in the third round. 
Once again Piper rebels against the rules and 
slams Mr. T to the ground. Mr. T wins on a 
disqualification.
Up for grabs next was the Womens Cham
pionship belt, held off and on by the Fabulous 
Moulah for 28 years. She faced Velvet McIn
tyre, the Irish bombshell. The match consisted 
of a lot of big-butted women throwing each other 
around. Moulah wins.
Rocky IV move over, now we have the real 
Russia vs. USA fight: Nikolai Volkoff vs. Cor
poral Kirschner. Kirschner snatched the cane 
meant for Volkoff and used it to his advantage 
to smack the head of Volkoff. It was then an 
easy win for Kirschner.
The next match is a special 20-man-over-thetop-rope Batde Royal. With six football players 
involved, it proved to be a wild and wooly event. 
After the demise of sixteen wrestlers and foot
ball playaers, including the like of Bill Fralic, 
the Refrigerator, William Perry, and , and John 
Studd, all that are left are Andre the Giant, Russ 
Francis, and the Hart Foundation of Jim 
Neidhard and Brett Harte. After the dust settl
ed, Andre won by throwing Brett Harte out on
to the hard concrete floor.
The Tag-Team championship was next with 
Brutus Beefcake and Greg Valentine tryed to 
defend their title against the British Bulldogs 
and their manager, Lou Albano. The special 
ring-side advisor to the bulldogs was Ozzy 
Osborne. The Bulldogs used their speed and 
agility to out-maneuver the champions and win 
the title by using a flying headbutt to seal the 
victory.
Two other matches pitted Adrian Adonis 
against Uncle Elmer and Ricky Steamboat 
against Hercules Hernandez. Adonis and 
Steamboat won easily.
Now its time for the Main Event, the cage 
match between Hulk Hogan and King Kong 
Bundy. The champion Hogan has to go up 
against the almost 500-pound Bundy. In a rein
forced cage Hogan pounded the mammoth Bun
dy into a bloody mess and won the match by 
climbing outside the ring first.
The crowd in the Syria Mosque is now stan
ding and cheering for the champion. I suppose 
they will now go home and tell their friends 
about how great the matches were, and they will 
be right; it was fantastic.
I want to make one thing clear. Although I 
have been watching wrestling for many years, 
I do not believe that wrestling is completely real, 
but it is entertainment in its purest form. It is 
good versus evil and there is a winner, be it the 
hero or the villain.
Editors Note: This article is ment to account for 
the events that transpired at Wrestlemania II, 
is NO way making any kind of ludicrous state
ment that Professional Wrestling is fake, phony, 
or staged.
Next week at Graffiti: Lyle Mays
PITTSBURGHHearalded for his musical 
compositions and playing with the Pat Metheny 
Group, pianist Lyle Mays is welcomed by 
DiCesare-Engler to Graffiti on Wednesday, 
April 27 at 8 p.m. Bassist Marc Johnson and 
drummer Alex Acuna are featured with Mays.
Mays musical influence began in his northern 
Wisconsin home where he was exposed to 
popular music of the 30s and 40s. While at
tending school at North Texas State, he ap*
peared at the 1975 Wichita Jazz Festival where 
he met guitarist Pat Metheny.
That same year saw Mays recruited by Woody 
Herman as part of his Thundering Herd. He 
later met Metheny again and together formed 
the Pat Metheny Group in 1977 which con
tinues to be one of the brightest improvisational 
bands.
Accompanying Mays will be bassist Marc 
Johnson,, best known as a member of the late
Bill Evans trio, and drummer Alex Acuna who 
has spent the last few years with Weather 
Report.
Tickets are now on sale for $9 at all National 
Record Marts, Oasis Records and Tapes, Graf
fiti and the Syria Mosque Box Office. Prices are 
$10 the night of the show at the door. Tickets I 
can by charged to Visa/Mastercard at |
621-3333.

---------------------------------------------------

Classifieds
Highway, traffic & street signs. Official. Send $1 
for catalogue. De-Sign Store, P.O. Box 2781, Palm 
Beach, FL 33480.
ACT NOW DISKETTES Bulk 5 1/4 DS/DD. 49 
cents each. Lots of 50. These are not 2nds. MONEY 
BACK GUARANTEE. No questions asked. POs ac
cepted. CALL 1-800-633-9242, 9-9 EST M-F, 10-6 
Sat. Offer expires 3/1/86.
COUNSELORS, OVER 19WHO LIKE TO HAVE 
FUN AND MAKE FUN AT UNIQUE OVERNIGHT 
BOYS SUMMER CAMP IN PENNA. ABLE TO IN
STRUCT EITHER ONE OF THE FOLLOWING: 
WATERSAFETY, WATERSKIING, BOATING, 
SOCCER, BASKETBALL, ARTS AND CRAFTS, 
ROCKCLIMBING, RIFLERY, HAM RADIO, 
ROCKETRY, SCIENCE, ARCHERY, TRACK, 
TENNIS, GOLF, PHOTOGRAPHY, PIONEERING, 
OR GENERAL ATHLETICS. WRITE CAMP 
DIRECTOR, 138 RED RAMBLER DRIVE, 
LAFAYETTE HILL, PA. 19444.
SENIOR PORTRAITS, Fraternities, groups, ex
perienced studio photographer will come to your loca
tion, days, evenings, weekends, call day, evening, 
322-7207.
Announcements
Actress wanted for private party to serve as maitre 
d on 4/30. Uniform required. Call 471-3779. 
Handy person needed: for painting and some land
scaping. We will supply all materials. Please call 
751-9639, leave name or 621-0610.
Newly appointed faculty seeks spacious furnish
ed home to rent or possibly purchase. 919-968-2836 days.
COUNSELOR NEEDED for summer camp in 
Pocono MountainsW.S.I. lifeguards, arts and crafts, 
woodshop, computer, riflery, archery, sports instruc
tors also needed. Privately owned, small, unique coed 
children s camp. For imformation and application call 
locally evenings or weekends, 731-3742 or 
682-2688; or write Jim Daschbach, 7911 Union St., Pgh., PA 15218.
Shadyside Apt. 1 bedroom, 3 rooms, security system, w/w, redecorated.
Discount on over 50 brands of audio and video equipment. Call Hal at 687-2859.
Professional typing service: resumes, cor
respondence, business, personal papers, creative typ
ing, etc. IBM Selectric II Pica/Elite typesizes. Prompt service, quality 521-7888
BATHING SUITS/BOOKS all need bring to com
pletely furnished summer sublet w/fall option. 
Washer/dryer, free driveway parking! W/W carpet. 
Shadyside. 621-1364
Notary Public 4415 5th Avenue, Webster Hall, 1st 
floor, Oakland. 687-3233 
PITTSBURGH GUITARS. We buy, sell & trade us
ed and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, Bloomfield, 
across from West Penn Hospital. 621-4733. 
The Virgin Mary: Handmaiden of the Lord or 
the Queen of Heaven. A conference to explore 
some of the issues of Mariology as they impact con
temporary Christian women on Sat. April 26; 
12:30-5:00 p.m. at Lutheran University Center 4515 
Forbes. Cost $7.00; register by April 23 by calling 
682-6886.
Apartment for rentSq Hill Graduate students. 
5701 Forbes Ave. 2 Br Apt, 2 rooms down, 2 up. 
All utilities included $370.00 per month. 261-1505 
and 421-9208. Available May 1.
TypingWord Processing Dissertations, 
papers$2.50 per page. Resumes and manuscripts. 
REVISIONSNO PROBLEM! FREE DELIVERY. 
COMPU-AID, INC.765-2133.
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS: Recently Publish
ed, International Students Handbook, A Step By 
Step Guide to GreenCard From Student (F-l/J-l/H-1) 
Visas. For Free Details send $1.00 for Postage & 
Handling (Refundable) to : Immigration Publication, 
Dept-F56, P.O. Box 515991, Dallas, TX 75251. 
MILLION DOLLAR MAJOR MEDICAL IN
SURANCE BACKED BY MUTUAL OF OMAHASURPRISINGLY AFFORDABLE. FOR INFORMA
TION CALL BERNIE 441-8482.
Summer, fall rooms: large, clean, sunny! Quiet, 
cool, fun coed house, unbuggy. Call 683-7315 to
day! 600 sec. walk away.
Dare to enter the exciting field of quality food 
service? Wendys, in the shadyside area is hiring. 
Please call 687-3670. Were open 24 hours. 
Parties, Parties, Partieswe have everything foi 
your party in our 10,000 square foot party super
market. Papermart, Baum Blvd at Morewood Ave, 
681-8900.
Distinctive Wedding Invitations, Announcements, 
Stationery, for occasions. Fabulous selection, discount 
prices. J.R. Stationery shown by appointment. 
243-0380.
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, scheduled for 8:30 pm, 
April 19, at the Civic Arena, combines the talents 
of Carnegie Mellon alumni from stage and screen with 
those of student performers. The line up includes host 
Andy Williams with Charles Haid, Barbara Feldon, 
Jerry Lewis, Steven Bochco, Barbara Bosson, Diane 
Fratantoni, Robert Foxworth and Nancy Marchand. 
The show caps the universitys annual three-day 
Spring Carnival. Student tickets are available by call
ing 268-8893.
Spring Carnival. This years three day carnival, 
(April 17 through April 19), whose theme is 
Hollywood, features the traditional Midway carnival 
rides and games of chance, as well as the 66th run
ning of the buggy races. Comedian Jerry Lewis is 
% the grand marshal of the buggy races.
Book Sale. University Libraries Book Sale April 16, 
I 17 and 18 from 8:30 am to 4:45 pm in the lower 
1 level of Hunt Library.
1 Samba. Carnegie Mellon Drama Department 
g presents Samba April 15 through April 18 and April 
22 through April 27. All performances are at 8 pmI
 and the Saturday matinee is at 2 pm, April 26 in 
Kresge Theatre, CFA. For more information call 
( 268-2407.
|| Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation. Hunt 
Institute exhibits over 70 examples of botanical prints 
from April 21 through July 31. The show traces the 
curious and colorful history of printing botanical im
ages over five centuries. Open to the public free of 
charge. The exhibition is on display in the Penthouse 
of the Hunt Library from 8:30 am to noon and 1 
pm to 5 pm, Monday through Friday.
1 ittsburgh Filmmakers: Ran, 7 pm, Wednesday; 
6:30 pm and 9:30 pm, Friday; 3 pm, 7 pm and 9:50 
pm, Saturday; and 3 pm and 7 pm, Sunday; through 
April 27, at 101 Sixth Street. Admission $4.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates daily 
mass at 12:30 pm, Monday through Friday in CMUs 
chapel, Skibo room 39. Weekend masses are at 7 
pm, Saturday and 10:30 am, Sunday in the Graduate
PREGNANT?
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
School of Industrial Administration auditorium. For 
more information call 681-3181.
Old Allegheny Festival Choir holds auditions. The
Old Allegheny Festival Choir, under the direction of 
Philip Aley, is holding auditions for all voice parts. 
For more information and to schedule an audition, 
contact director Philip Aley at 475-3436.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo room 
39, Monday through Saturday.
Host Families Sought For International High 
School Students. Host families are sought for 25 
high school students from Sweden, Norway, Den
mark, Finland, Holland, Brazil, Ecuador, Australia 
and Japan for the school year 1986-87, in a pro
gram sponsored by the American Intercultural Stu
dent Exchange. The students, age 15 through 17, 
arrive in the United States in August 1986, attend 
a local high school and return to their home country 
in June 1987. For more information call 
1-800-SIBLING.
Volunteers. The Mt. Hood National Forest in the 
Cascade Range near Portland, Oregon, is looking for 
volunteers to work during the 1986 field season. 
Typical jobs include campground hosts, wilderness 
rangers, timber sale layout, trail maintenance, road 
surveying, fuels and fire projects. For applications, 
contact the College Placement Office or Linda Good
man, Mt. Hood National Forest, 2955 NW Division 
Street, Gresham, OR 97030.
Nacel Cultural Exchanges. Host families are need
ed for a group of French, German and Spanish ex
change students who will be arriving in the area this 
summer for a one-month homestay: July 2 - July 29.
The program is sponsored by Nacel Cultural Ex
changes. Participation in the hosting program involves 
sharing home and family life with an exchange stu
dent, ages 14 - 18, for a period of four weeks. The 
students speak English and bring their own spending 
money. The organization provides comprehensive 
medical, accident and liability insurance as well as 
transportation to the host family. The only obligation 
of the host family is to share its everyday activities 
with the student and to treat the student as a member 
of the family and not a guest. If you are interested 
in hosting a French, German or Spanish exchange 
student, write or call the Nacel coordinators: Dr. 
Dominick and Dany-Noele DeFilippis, R.R.#1 Box 
177, Hickory, Pennsylvania 15340 or call 
412-356-2269 or 412-356-7359.
Scholarship Information. Students interested in 
receiving additional financial aid to attend college 
should write to the Scholarship Bank for a free copy 
of their new publication How to Play Grantsmanship. The publication lists available grants and 
scholarships from private financial aid sources. Send 
a business-size, stamped, self-addressed envelope to 
The Scholarship Bank, 4626 N. Grand, Covina, CA 
91724.
American Electronics Association. The American 
Electronics Association is seeking 12 U.S. graduate 
students in electrical and computer engineering or 
computer science to work in the research laboratories 
of Japanese electronics companies starting in the fall 
of 1986 after summer language instruction. For fur
ther information and application materials, graduate 
students should contact the Engineering Deans of
fice on campus, or the American Electronics Associa
tion at 415-857-9300.
Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau. Cape Cod, 
Massachusetts and the off- shore islands of Nantucket 
and Marthas Vineyard have more good paying jobs 
open to students and teachers this summer than ever 
before. Hiring continues through June, but the choice 
jobs generally go to those who apply earliest. For im
mediate information on the many kinds of jobs 
available and details on how to apply, send a selfaddressed stamped envelope to: Cape Cod Summer, 
Job Bureau, Box 594, Room 8, Barnstable, MA 
02630.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens Theatre.
Little Red Riding Hood. Everybody loves Little Red 
Riding Hood...except that ding dong Wolf ...and to 
tell you the truth the Wolf is fond of her too; however 
he is kind of bashful and doesnt like to admit it very 
much...which is kind of silly but that is the way he 
is. Also in our play is Litde Red Riding Hoods Gran
ny... and she is just great and nice and you will love 
her forever and ever at 11 am and 2:30 pm, Satur
days; and 2:30 pm, Sundays; through May 31. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery. Abstrac
tion: Abstraction is shown from March 15 through 
April 27. Sam Gilliams paintings are exhibited in 
Gallery A, while five emerging abstract artists are ex
hibiting their work in Gallery B. Gallery hours are 
10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 
5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The 
Gallery is at 407 South Craig Street.
Forbes Gallery. Juried Show is presented April 15 
through April 20. Gallery hours are 11 am to 6 pm, 
Wednesday through Friday; and noon to 5 pm, Satur
day and Sunday. Opening April 15 from 7 pm to 
9 pm. Refreshments served.
North Oakland 
LOW COST-CLEAN 
INDEPENDENT LIVING 
Bayard Street 
Efficiencies and One Bedroom 
Apartment Building 
From $265 including all utilities 
Owner managed-on site laundry 
621-7666.
The elegance of ballet.The passion of modern dance.
Netherlands Dance 
TheatreTouring Company, Jr.
Monday, April 21, 8 PM Heinz Hall
TicketCharge (392-4900), PDC (355-0330), Kaufmanns, Gimbels & TIX 
Presented by Pittsburgh D3J1CC CoUflCil
UNIVERSITY OF OXFORDModem British StudiesThe College of Liberal Arts, Boston University, offers to academically superior students the opportunity to study politics, history, and English literature for one semester at St. Catherine's College, University of Oxford. This program combines the strengths of the British tutorial system with a traditional lecture/seminar approach to allow students an intense, rewarding academic experience. Applications are now being accepted for Summer 1986 (May 17-August 22), Fall 1986 (September 5 -December 13), and Spring 1987 (January 9-April 17).Boston University
Name_ Address City.
Phone( )
StateZip
Return to Study Abroad Office, 143 Bay State Rd, Boston, MA 02215
(617) 353-3316 Summer spaces still available
Representative on campus Friday, April 25th 
Skibo, Room 201 10:30-12:00

---------------------------------------------------

Events
Carnival 
Schedule
Thursday, April 17
9 AM
Buggy display and competition in the gym. 
Pre-sale of ride tickets at Skibo Info Desk.
5 PM
Opening Ceremonies on the Midway.
5:30 PM
Skydiving Exhibition on the IM Field.
6 PM
Kiltie Band performs in the tent.
Thats Entertainment Part I in DH2210. 
Class Clubs Picnic on the Baker Hall Lawn.
7 PM
Jazz Choir performs in the Tent.
8 PM
Scotch n Soda The Murder Room in 
Skibo Ballroom.
Drama productin Samba'  in the Kresge 
Theatre.
8:30 PM
Thats Entertainment Part I in DH2210.
9 PM
AB Dance with Gigolo in the Tent.
10:30
Fireworks in Tech Stadium (Friday if rain). 
11 PM
Thats Entertainment Part I
Midnight
Midway closes.
Friday, April 18
9 AM
Sweepstakes Races on Tech Street.
Noon
Arts & Crafts sale on the cut (Skibo Lobby 
if rain).
Robotics Demonstration in Skibo Lobby. 
Quick Release (band) in the Tent.
Midway opens.
2:30 PM
Tom Wilmorth (mime) in the Tent.
4 PM
Mens lacrosse vs. Allegheny on the IM 
Field.
Celebrity look-alike contest in the Tent. 
Caricaturist on Midway.
Midway judging.
6 PM
T-shirt competition display in the Skibo 
Lobby.
Thats Entertainment Part II in DH 2210. 
7 PM
661st Air Force Band SystemsGoin the 
Tent.
8 PM
Scotch n Soda The Murder Room in the 
Skibo Ballroom.
Drama production Samba in the Kresge 
Theatre.
8:30
Thats Entertainment Part II
9 PM
SDC Dance in the Tent.
10 PM
Horror film festival in the Wherret Room: 
American Werewolf in London 
Creepshow
Attack of the Killer Tomatoes
Night of the Living Dead
11 PM
Thats Entertainment Part II in DH 2210. 
Midnight
Midway closes.
Saturday, April 19
8AM
Sweepstakes Races on Tech Street.
Noon
Midway opens.
Arts & Crafts sale on the Cut.
Robotics Demonstration in Skibo Lobby.
1 PM
Hector & Paris (band) in the Tent.
2 PM
Magician on Midway.
A Phi O musical chairs on the Cut.
3 PM
Caricaturist on Midway.
3:30 PM
Trinidad Tripoli Street Band in the Tent.
6 PM
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie student reception 
in the Tent.
7 PM
Busses load for students attending Carnegie 
Salutes Carnegie.
8 PM
Scotch n Soda The Murder Room in 
Skibo Ballroom.
8:30 PM
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie in the Civic 
Arena.
9 PM
Ghostbuster movie in the Tent.
10 PM 
Midway closes.
11:30
Awards Ceremony on the Cut.
Midnight
Party with the stars in Skibo.
Funded by Activities Fee.
15
Tuesday
Movies
The Ladykillers, starring Alec 
Guinness, Katie Johnson, Cecil Parker and Peter 
Sellers. Brilliant Guinness comedy about a bunch of 
inept crooks who tangle with a little old lady. Katie 
Johnson steals the film as the old lady. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Lectures
Metallurgical Engineering and Materials Science 
Staff Seminar. Professor John F. Elliott, M.I.T., 
speaks on An Electrodynamic Balance Study of High 
Temperature Gas-Particle Reactions4 at 3 pm in 
WEH room 7500. Informal discussions are held and 
refreshments are available afterwards in WEH room 
2325.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Away match against Westminster Col
lege at 2 pm.
Golf. Away game against Slippery Rock University 
at 1 pm.
Music
Senior Recital. Rolando Morales-Matos, percussion, 
performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Wednesday
16
Movies
New York, New York, starring 
Robert DeNiro and Lisa Minelli. Offbeat musical 
drama about a saxophonist and a vocalist who battle 
it out with each other during the Big Band era. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Engineering and Public Policy Seminar. Dr.
Michael Oppenheimer, sr. scientist from the En
vironmental Defense Fund, speaks on Acid Rain: 
Scientific Understanding and Public Policy4 at 3:30 
pm in the Engineering and Public Policy Conference 
Room.
Music
Graduate Recital. Ann Ferguson, violoncello, per
forms at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon in the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega. Meetings are held at 8:30 pm 
in the Adamson Wing.
17
Thursday
Movies
18
Friday
Movies
19
Saturday
Movies
After Hours, starring Griffin 
Dunne, Rosanna Arquette, John Heard, Teri Garr, 
Cheech and Chong. Magnificent. Wild black com
edy about being single in NYC. A hilarious, manic 
movie. One of the best of 1985. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Away match against Thiel College 
at 1 pm.
Mens Track and Field. Away meet against Thiel 
College and Hiram College at Hiram at 1 pm.
Sweet Dreams, starring Jessica 
Lange and Ed Harris. Good film about the stormy 
marriage of country singer Patsy Cline and her 
overbearing husband Charlie Dick. Lange got an 
Oscar nomination for her performance. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Music
Senior Recital. Douglas Farrell, voice, performs at 
8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
New to Pittsburgh? New to Pittsburgh helps new 
residents learn about the Job Advisory and other 
community resources from whos hiring to where to 
shop. Advance registration is required. For more in
formation call 621-0942.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 13IB. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
20
Sunday
Movies
Oklahoma, starring Gordon 
MacRae, Shirley Jones, Charlotte Greenwood and 
Gloria Grahame. Superb cast in this delightful film 
version of Rodgers and Hammersteins great Broad
way play with a million great songs. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Time Machine, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Music
Junior Recital. Ed Beckwith, voice, performs at 8 
pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Monday
21
Movies
Le Bal, A unique film depiction of 
men and women over a 50 year period, shown en
tirely by music, dance and pantomime. Worth a look. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Music
Junior Recital. Kathleen Bolger and Scott Adler, 
voice, perform at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo room 12.
Spellbound, starring Ingrid 
Bergman, Gregory Peck and Leo G. Carroll. Bergman 
plays the psychiatrist trying to find out whats wrong 
with Peck. Pecks nightmare sequences devised by 
Salvador Dali and and they are wonderful. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Special Events
Pittsburgh Dance Council. The Pittsburgh Dance 
Council presents the Netherlands Dance Theatre 
Junior at 8 pm in Heinz Hall. Tickets for the pro
gram are available through the Heinz Hall Box Of
fice, 10 am to 6 pm, Monday through Friday; and 
noon to 6 pm, Saturday; by calling TicketCharge at 
392-4900 or the PDC Office at 355-0330 as well 
as Kaufmanns, Gimbels and TIX.
If you wish to place an announcement, classified 
ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The Tartan send 
it in care of Leslie Gordon/ACME, Public Relations, 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; 
send it via campus mail to the above address; or drop 
it off at 5017 Forbes Ave. Events may be sent through 
computer mail to TT999TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when sub
mitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief description, 
location, date, and time. In addition, include the 
name and phone number of the person submitting; this 
information will be used only to confirm the event
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy or 
validity of any Events listings. In addition, it reserves 
the right to edit or omit any listing for publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the general 
CMU student population unless otherwise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday at $ 
pm for the next week's issue. If you have any com
ments or suggestions, send them to any of the addresses 
listed above.
