"Beam me up, Scotty." Star Trek IV is here! See Diversions 
Last Tartan of the Semester. Look for us on January 13.
The Tartan
Volume 81, Issue 11Carnegie Mellon UniversityNovember 25,1986
Tartan Follow-up...
Students Comment on Spiders in Dorm Rooms
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant New>s Editor
Last week, the Tartan reported that 
two students were bitten by spiders in 
their Margaret Morrrison Apartment; 
neither could be reached for comment. 
On Tuesday, after the Tartan came out, 
Michael Polombo, the second resident 
to be bitten in the apartment, contacted 
the Tartan calling the article inaccurate, 
biased, and derogatory. He agreed to be 
interviewed.
The inconsistencies started with the 
first bite. According to Polombo, 
neither he nor his roommate were asked 
to leave or offered alternate housing 
until after Polombo was bitten; he was 
bitten after another resident of the 
apartment, Bob Pyle, had been bitten 
twice. Pyle and his roommate were 
given alternate housing. Housing 
claimed all four residents were offered 
alternate housing immediately after the 
first bite.
The next of Polombo's complaints 
was about the exterminating company, 
Rentokil. First of all, he said he had 
to "bitch at Tony Martin," the Director 
of Housing, before anything was done 
at all. But even after Rentokil did come 
out, they did a "half-assed job." Their 
first inspection was not thorough at all 
as Housing had said, but rather it was 
one man with a jar a flashlight, and 
instructions to catch the spider. 
Polombo said that he didn't even move 
any of the furniture; no glue traps were 
set, and no chemicals were used. After 
Pyle's second bite, the rooms were 
fogged, but Polombo stated they still 
found live spiders in the apartment. "I 
don't know what 'Knox-out' is, but I 
don't think it would kill a Brown 
Recluse."
Perhaps Polombo's biggest concern 
was the way the kind of spider he was 
bitten by was treated. He contends it 
was a Brown Recluse. In his. words, a 
Brown Recluse could have been 
brought north by the people who lived 
in the apartment over the summer and 
could easily have lived in the warm 
rooms until he was bitten. He puts no 
value in Rentokil's, the Student Health 
Center's doctors', or the Carnegie 
Museum's entemologist's opinions that 
it could not have been a Brown 
Recluse.
After he was bitten, Polombo was 
treated at Presbyterian Hospital for, 
according to his doctor's report, a 
Brown Recluse spider bite. The 
symptoms were the same as a Brown
Continued on Page 4
Prof Honored for Peace Work
Carnegie Mellon Physics Professor Lincoln 
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University Professor 
Lincoln Wolfenstein received the 1986 New 
Person Award from the Thomas Merton 
Center at a ceremony on Wednesday night. 
Also recognized at the St. Paul Cathedral 
High School was Dr. John Townsend, a 
Professor of Physics at the University of 
Pittsburgh. Together these men worked on a 
study in 1962 entitled The Effects of Nuclear 
War on the Pittsburgh Area. The award was 
presented for this work and other peaceful 
activities in which both physics professors 
have been involved.
Molly Rush, a staffperson at, and co
founder of, the Thomas Merton Center,
photo by Eric Lieuliette
Wolfenstein receives award.
introduced Dr. Wolfenstein. "When we first 
got involved with studying the Software 
Engineering Institute, we started asking 
questions about what was going to go on 
there. What we found was a deliberate 
blindness in the Administration at CMU, a 
refusal to look at consequences. One of the 
few voices we could turn to there was that of 
Lincoln Wolfenstein." She hailed 
Wolfenstein as a early member of the local 
peace movement, as a founding member of 
the Pittsburgh SANE and for circulating an 
anti-Star Wars petition among the CMU 
faculty in 1986.
Wolfenstein remarked that he "was sort of 
surprised" by the award. He explained his 
concern with the SDI. "I've been concerned
as much as anything in the Univerisity's 
willingness to become dependent on the 
Defense Department. I feel that in doing so 
that the University has not yet kept to the 
goals of a true University. In the long run it 
can hurt academic freedom."
The Thomas Merton Center has given out 
New Person Awards annually since 1973. 
Prior to its creation the previous year, the 
organization was known as Catholics for an 
End to Asian Slaughter and Exploitation 
(CEASE). The 1984 recipients of the new 
person award were CMU Associate Professor 
of Law and Industrial Management, Thomas 
M. Kerr, and his wife.
Wolfenstein, a member of several key 
science organizations and involved in 
research centers around the world, lists three 
major areas of physics that he has worked on 
since he joined CMU in 1948. One 
involves weak nuclear interactions, such as 
beta decay. Another deals with violations in 
a certain particle symmetry, still not fully 
understood. "For the moment, the thing 
that's received the most attention is solar 
neutrinos and neutrino oscillations." A 
theory proposed by Wolfenstein in 1978 was 
recently used by two Russian scientists to 
explain why experiments on Earth detect 
only a third of the neutrinos predicted by the 
best solar theory.
At the ceremony, Wolfenstein gave a 
speech in which he spoke of efforts "to 
defend all of the wonderful creations on the 
Earth. In defense of all of these creations, 
we have to find new ways of thinking, so we 
can save all the beautiful things on Earth."
Design Competition Announced
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assitant News Editor
Carnegie Mellon is holding a juried 
competition to choose the design of the 
planned University Center. Six major 
architectural firms will be invited to submit 
preliminary designs from which the best will 
be selected. The winning firm will then be 
conrtracted to finalize the drawings for the 
Center.
Patrick Keating, Director of University 
Planning, explained why this method was 
chosen over simply contracting an architect. 
"If we want design excellence, one way to 
try to acheive that is to have architects 
compete by doing preliminary designs of 
this facility, pick the one you think is best, 
and have that architect do the project."
Materials from over 40 firms were reviewed 
before the final six firms were selected. 
According to Keating, the final six will be 
contracted and announced for the competition 
next week.
On December 17 and 18, representatives 
from these firms will be on campus for a 
"kick-off session and briefing." Then they 
will have approximately four months to 
submit their designs with judging scheduled 
for late March or early April. After the
designs have been reviewed and the winner 
selected, it will be 10 to 12 months before 
the final plans are complete and 
construction can begin.
The competition will be run by "normal 
Assiociation of Architects' guidelines." The 
jury will consist of three or four CMU 
administrators and three or four people from 
outside the CMU community. The criteria 
for judging includes an excellence in design, 
timelessness, and a coherence with the 
surrounding buildings.
Each architect will recieve from $40,000 to 
$50,000 for their designs. The winner
will get the "normal architect's fee of 6% to 
8%" of the $25 to $30 million project. 
Keating stated, "This is not the cheapest way 
to do this but that is not our objective.
"This is an important project for the 
university, the most important project we're 
going to do in the forseeable future. It's 
important to the quality of life of the 
campus, the quality of life for the students; 
it's important for the whole circulation path 
of the campus: it's our top priority. The 
argument was let's really force six great 
architects to give us their best preliminary 
designs."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 25, 1986
California 
Congressman 
Criticizes Arms Deal
More criticism of the U.S. arms deal with 
Iranthis time from California 
Congressman Anthony Beilenson. In the 
Democrats radio address, Beilenson called 
the deal a failure and a reversal of the 
nations counter-terrorism policy. He said 
the terrible blunderas he put itcould 
have been prevented had Reagan asked for 
advice from Congress.
Don't Worry About 
It, What're a few 
more Weapons?
Administration sources say U.S. arms sold 
to Iran during the past 18 months did not tip 
the balance of power in the Iran-Iraq 
Warand theyre giving more evidence that 
they say supports their view. They say Iran 
has been buying weapons from several 
nations: about half from Soviet allies, a 
third from China and the rest on the Black 
Market So, they say, a few more arms from 
the U.S. won't make much difference.
India Sues Union 
Carbide For 3 
Billioin Dollars
India has gone to court, demanding more 
than three billion dollars in damages from 
Union Carbide. The money would be 
compensation for the more thatn 2300 
people who died in the Bhopal gas leak two 
years ago.
Sandinistas Accuse 
the U.S. of 
Provoking Nicaragua 
v. Honduras
There are new accusations that the U.S. is 
trying to start a war between Nicaragua and 
Honduras. A Sandinista government 
newspaper says the foreign ministry has sent 
a message to Honduras alerting the country 
to an expected attack soon by U.S .-backed 
rebels.
Even Russians Run 
Off to Canada...
Five Soviet Army deserters are now in 
Canadaafter reportedly working with rebel 
forces in Afghanistan the past three years. 
Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney 
confirms the group is safe and sound. There 
are reports Canada is helping arrange asylum 
for the Soviet soldiers.
Gunman Shot to 
Death After HoldingChild Hostage
A gunman was shot to death by police in 
Arizona after holding an eight-year-old boy 
hostage for more than four hours. Police say 
Bruce Sunshine probably stole five vehicles 
at gunpoint. Police gave chase after spotting 
the fifth car outside of Phoenix. Four 
policemen and two bystanders were hurt in 
the chase and shootout
Federal Investigation 
Turns Up Corruption 
in Chicago
A federal probe of alleged city corruption in 
Chicago has produced a host of charges 
against two aldermen and five other people. 
The prosec uter says that may be only the 
beginning. Racketeering, mail fraud and 
extortion are some of the charges to come 
out of operation incubator. U.S. Attorney 
General says there could be more 
indictments.
Tainted Heroin 
Causes Overdoses in 
Baltimore- Is Nothing 
Sacred?
Baltimore police are investigating a rash of 
drug overdoses yesterday that they say might 
be caused by tainted heroin on the streets.
Police spokeswoman Arlene Jenkins says 
two of the six overdose victims have died. 
Four others were hospitalized after they were 
found overdosed within an hour of each other 
cm the citys east side.
Jenkins says police are waiting for tests to 
confirm their suspicion that heroineither
tainted or simply too pureis the cause. 
Police are urging anyone with information 
about someone who has become sich from 
using an illegal drug to call the department's 
confidential hotline at 685-DRUG.
Shooting Victim 
Must Pay Part of 
Medical Bills of 
Insane Assailant
A Prince Georges County judge says a 
woman shot by her husband five years ago 
must pay some of the medical expenses the 
man incurred when he was found innocent 
by reason of insanity.
County circuit judge Robert Woods ruled 
yesterday that the State of Maryland should 
get 6700 dollars for treatment Raymond 
Hudlow received at the State-owned Clifton 
T. Perkins Hospital Center in 1982.
Prosecutors say his 60-year-old wife, 
Charlotte Hudlow, still is being treated for 
wounds she suffered in 1982 when her 
husband shot her in the living room of her 
Oxon Hill home. Their daughter, Anna 
Gibson, called the order a miscarriage of 
justice.
Automatic Restraints 
in New Automobiles 
Not Yet Mandatory
The Transportation Department says it will 
extend the deadline requiring automakers to 
equip caps with automatice passenger 
restraints but those cars must be installed 
with air bags for the driver side. Safety 
advocates are condemning the action.
State Supreme Court 
Hands Down Rape 
Law Ruling
PHILADELPHIAThe States rape shield 
law does not bar evidence of a victims 
sexual activity near the time of an alleged 
rape. Thats the ruling of the State Supreme 
Court In a four to three decision handed 
down Friday, the State Supreme Court ruled 
that a Lancaster County Judge should have 
allowed testimony that a 14-year-old girl had 
sex with a teenage boy before she was 
allegedly raped. The girls father was
convicted of the rape in 1983. Dissenting 
judges said the ruling weakens the rape 
shield law designed to prevent testimony 
about a victims sexual history.
State Senate 
Democrats Push For 
Vote to Renew 
L.C.B.
PHILADELPHIASenate Democrats are 
hoping the Commonwealth Court will 
allow them to do something Senate 
Republicans will notvote on a bill to 
renew the States Liquor Control Board. The 
Democrats went to the court Friday when 
Republican leaders refused to allow a vote 
on a bill that would renew the L.C.B. for 
another ten years. The State House has 
approved the bill. Senator Edward Zemprelli 
brought the court challenge, saying Senate 
President Robert Jubelirer has a mandatory 
duty to introduce the legislation passed by 
the House.
City of Pittsburgh to 
Begin Horse-drawn 
Carriage Rides in 
Newly-renovated 
Downtown
PITTSBURGHThe City of Pittsburgh 
has spent millions of dollars rebuilding its 
downtown. Now it's discovered a new way 
to show it off: horse-drawn carriage rides.
The two carriages, each pulled by a 
Clydesdale horse, are owned by Ed Johnston, 
a 49-year-old farmer and horse breeder from 
New Alexandria.
The City granted Johnston permission in 
July to conduct carriage rides for two years, 
after which the council will re-evaluate the 
experiment
Officials say the first ride around 
downtown Saturday afternoon, with Mayor 
Richard Caliguiri aboard, went off without a 
hitch.
Rides are scheduled from 1 p.m. to 10 
p.m. on weekends and from 6:30 p.m. to 10 
p.m. on two Fridays in December. Each 
ride, a little over a mile, runs about 30 
minutes and costs four dollars for adults, 
three dollars for children.
!:ISfews:Murbs^appears 
courtesy-of the Jgf 
Associated Press
CMU Opens Sophisticated Typesetting Facitity
By OLVE PEERSEN 
Tartan Managing Editor
The Center for Art & Techology has 
opened a high quality typesetting facility 
which provides "the highest resolution 
available in the city" according to manager 
Lee Miller. The facility, located in the 
Design Department's Typography Lab (Baker 
Hall 140), is available to the CMU 
community and it compatible with the ever 
increasing number of Macintosh produced 
publications on campus.
The heart of the facility is a Lintronic-300 
Imagesetter which is capable of producing 
output at 2,540 dots per linear inch (dpi), or 
about 6.4 million dots per square inch, 
allowing it to make razor sharp letters up to 
10 inches tall. As a comparison, an Apple 
LaserWriter pints at 300 dpi, and normal 
publication quality is in the range of 600- 
700 dpi.
The Linotronic-300 is programmed in a 
language called PostScript, the same
software that contrails the Apple 
LaserWriter. As a result any Macintosh 
document that can be printed on a 
LaserWriter can also be printed on the 
Linotronic with the advantage of its higher 
resolution.
One advantage of the Lintronic facility is 
"that you can produce publication quality 
output using the software packages which 
you are familiar with, rath1 than learning 
something new," says Miller. The Lintronic300 is fully compatible with Macintosh 
software such as MacWrite, Microsoft Word, 
PageMaker, and Mac Publisher, and also 
older systems such as Scribe.
Publications already produced on the 
Linotronic include The Tartan and The 
Knowledge Revolution. CMU Press and 
the Office of Student Affairs will soon be 
using the Lintronic for their books, 
handbooks, manuscripts, and journals.
The facility operates on a drop-off basis 
with typical turnaround time of about 24
hours, with same afternoon service possible 
on small jobs. As you can do all your own 
pageproofing on a LaserWriter, all the 
Lintronic faclility needs is your Macintosh 
disk. Output is in the form of photographic 
paper which can then be given to your
printer or Xeroxed to produce the necessary 
copies.
The facility is currently open from noon to 
five daily. If you are interested in using the 
Lintronic's output, call Lee Miller at x3783 
for details.
Carlow Holds Service
The sixth anniversary of the deaths of 
four North American churchwomen in El 
Salvador will be commemorated in an 
evening prayer service in Kresge Theatre, 
Grace Library at Carlow College, 
Pittsburgh, on Monday, December 1, 
1986, from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Maura Clarke, Ita Ford, Jean Donovan, 
and Dorothy Kazel were murdered in El 
Salvador on December 2, 1980. Through 
their deaths, the courageous faith these
women expressed in service to the 
Campesinos of El Salvador has come to 
symbolize hope for liberation of op
pressed people in all,of Central America.
The public is invited to participate in 
this celebration/payer event jointly 
sponsored by Tri-Diocesan Sisters 
Leadership Conference, Pittsburgh 
Sisters Council, The Thomas Merton 
Center, and Carlow College Theology 
Department

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 1986The TartanPage 3
Europeans Let Terrorism Go Unchecked
By ALEX HOOSHMAND 
Tartan Staffwriter
When a British court convicted the 
Jordanian, Nezar Hindawi, of attempting to 
blow up an El A1 jet carrying 375 
passengers on board, the British 
government's reaction was decisive and 
swift: it severed all relations with Syria, 
who, according to all evidence, had 
masterminded the plot. It then urged its 
partners in the European Community to 
follow suit in imposing sanctions against 
Syria. The EEC, however, was less than 
obliging. In a pathetic statement (not even 
unanimous since Greece failed to sign it), 
the Community expressed its "outrage" 
about the whole 
affair, its full moral 
support for Britain, 
and adopted some 
small measures against Syria which fell far 
short of what Britain had asked for. It cited 
reasons ranged from maintaining good 
relations with Syria to not having enough 
time to consider the implications. It was not 
the first, nor will it be the last, time that 
the Europeans have dragged their feet in 
dealing with international terrorism. 
However, the standard excuse, lack of 
evidence linking specific countries to 
terrorist acts, could not be used this time, 
as the evidence was overwhelming.
The reaction of France, itself hit by a 
series of terrorist bombings in Paris, was 
especially disappointing. The French 
attitude was reminiscent of the Maginot 
mentality prevalent prior to World War II. 
Shunning the EECs efforts to show a 
united front against terrorism, the French are 
engaged in private negotiations with Syria, 
persumably to prevent future Syrian 
sponsored terrorist acts on French soil and 
to buy the freedom of French hostages held
in Lebanon. Their efforts were successful. 
Shortly after sidestepping tough measures 
proposed by Britain at Brussels, two French 
hostages were released in Lebanon and flown 
to Syria. But the French success came at the 
expense of the rest of the free world. France 
also claimed that apart from the hostages, it 
was worried about the safety of the 1,400 
French troops stationed in Lebanon'and 
could not afford to antagonize Syria. 
Moiever, it did not find the evidence against 
Syria conclusive. Mr. Chirac, the French 
Prime Minister, quoted Mr. Kohl and Mr. 
Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the German 
Chancellor and Foreign Minister 
respectively, as saying that in their opinion 
the El A1 bombing attempt was a frame-up 
by the Israeli Mossad and anti-Assad 
elements in Syria (the Germans later denied 
this). There was also some speculation that 
France, among some other European 
countries, was hoping to pick up business 
abandoned by Britain in Syria. Reportedly, 
the French are on the verge of a $600 
million arms deal with Syria.
It was not the French only who 
disappointed Mrs. Thatcher. Other European 
countries, most notably, and unsurprisingly, 
Greece, also felt that imposing tough 
sanctions on Syria would be deterimental to 
their national interests. If they were to 
follow the British lead in breaking off 
diplomatic relations with Syria, they would 
lose all influence in the Middle-East peace 
process. The cooperation of the Syrian 
President, Hafez al-Assad, is considered 
essential in bringing about a lasting peace in 
the region. It is further feared that Syrian 
alienation would lead to greater Soviet 
influence in the area. Ominously enough, on 
the same day Britain announced the severance 
of political relations with Syria, officials of 
the Syrian government met with the Soviet
ambassador in Damascus to "discuss ways to 
bolster Syrias international image."
In deciding their response to terrorism, 
European countries also had to take internal 
political considerations into account. Leftwing parties clamour for a solution to the 
underlying causes: the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict (it is doubtful, however, that this 
will be the ultimate solution as Arab-Arab 
rivalries and fundamentalist Islamic unrest 
will always provide excuses in a region 
where terrorism is firmly rooted in the 
culture). Furthermore, the death of European 
hostages now held in Lebanon could be 
politically costly for the governments in 
power. Nor would reprisals neccessarily be 
confined to the Middle-East. Europe could
again be swept over by a wave of terror as 
during the last year.
There is little hope that the European 
nations will revise their lenient policies 
against countries that are acting as bastions 
of world terrorism anytime in the near 
future. This becomes even less likely as the 
details of the sordid arms deal between the 
U.S., with its traditionally strong antiterrorist stance, and Iran, one of the major 
players injhe terrorist scene, comes to light. 
It is to be hoped that Western leaders have 
not lost sight of the only means of defeating 
terrorism permanently: by a policy of non
negotiation and applying punitive sanctions 
against countries promoting terrorism. 
Terrorism must not pay off.
PUTTINGPIECESTOGETHER...
The party begins. 
2 drinks later.
After 4 drinks.
After 5 drinks.
A public service message fromWill^oeefs Institute
Opryland is looking for the best young musical talent in the 
country and to find it we re holding auditions in some 26 
cities, coast to coast. For our 1987 season well produce a 
dozen different live musical shows, highlighting Americas 
favorite music. Wll be casting over 400 positions, so if youve 
got the talent, we have a place for you at Opryland!
Heres what we need:
Singers: Prepare three selections and bring sheet music in 
the proper key
Dancers: Prepare a routine of approximately one minute. 
Instrumentalists: NXfe need piano/conductors, rhythm sec
tion, brass, woodwind, and string players. Most will be asked 
to sight-read first.
Stage Managers: Interviews will be conducted at the audi
tion sites.
Technicians: Bring a typed resume to one of the 
audition sites.
A piano accompanist, cassette player and record player will be 
provided. No appointment is necessary
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Tuesday; December 9,1986 ? 12:00-4:00 p.m. 
Melodia Performing Arts Center ? 121 9th Street 
4th Floor
For further information on any of 
our 26 city auditions contact:
Opry land Entertainment Department 
280 Opryland Drive, Nashville, TN 3T21- 
(615)871-6656 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (CST) 
Monday through Friday
OnmurousA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 25,1986
Student Senate Budget Hearings  Fall 1986
Organization Name: 86-87 Subsidy
Amiga Users Group $ 523.00 
Carnegie Involvement Association 1,920.00 
Computer Club 2,436.00 
Emergency Medical Services 1,770.00 
CMU GALA 441.00*
CMU Law Club 172.00 
Fringe 1,533.00 
Macintosh Users Club 1,189.00 
Mayur 233.00 
Oakland Review 1,410.00 
Robotics Club 1,774.00 
Scotch 'N Soda 2,550.00 
Shotokan Karate Club 195.00 
Spring Carnival 12,005.00 
Sweepstakes 6,810.00 
Ultimate Frisbee 650.00 
Weight Club 700.00*
Women's Lacrosse 1,601.00*
Total Subsidy $37,912.00
* Includes special allocation
Crime and Incident Report
11/10 Theft - Wallet, containing $50 cash, 
driver's license, and CMU ID, was stolen 
from basement level of GSIA.
11/13 6:32 PM - Bicycle stolen from Wean 
Hall bike racks.
11/14 2:26 AM - Student kicked side of 
escort van - no damage.
11/14 6:02 AM - A wall of the Students 
Against Apartheid shanty was pushed in by 
two unidentified males. One of the suspects 
was observed to be white, with dirty blond 
hair and a green pea coat.
11/14 8:14 AM Burglary - Rear window 
broken in Bureau of Mines building B, and a 
Code-A-Phone recorder valued at about $228 
was stolen.
11/14 11:12 AM Theft - Portable stereo 
tape deck, one pair speakers, calculator, and 
cassette tapes were stolen from Bureau of 
Mines building B. Total value was $240.
passerby was involved in an altercation with 
students on Morewood Avenue in front of 
ATO fraternity. The man claimed that he 
had been driving past, when something was 
thrown at the windshield of his car.
11/16 3:44 PM Criminal Mischief - An 
unidentified person vandalized a student's 
room in Mudge House. One dresser drawer, 
two desk drawers, and an HP calculator 
valued at $120 were broken.
11/16 5:19 PM Morewood Gardens A-tower 
ground level men's bathroom was flooded 
because a sink faucet was broken off the 
wall.
11/17 3:05 AM Security officer witnessed a 
full-sized couch being lowered from a 
Morewood Gardens 6th floor lounge. The 
couch was returned.
11/17 9:01 AM Bicycle stolen from 
Margaret Morrison apartments bike rack.
11/17 Theft - Magnivox compact disc 
player valued around $500 was stolen from a 
metal cabinet in CFA.
11/19 9:40 PM Suspicious Person - A 
white male described as 25 years old, 6 feet 
tall, thin, brown hair, wearing a leather 
jacket and cap was seen hiding in bushes 
surrounding the Greek church at the comer of 
5th Avenue and Clyde St
11/20 9:29 AM Criminal Mischief - 
Extensive damage estimated at $3500 
due to vandalism in Boss Hall and McGill 
Hall.
Student Responds to Spider Story
11/14 3:15 PM Theft - Calculator valued at 
about $70 was stolen from a backpack on 
first floor Hunt library.
11/14 4:10 PM Theft - Sony Walkman 
with headphones, and a GE AM-FM radio 
were stolen from Bureau of Mines building
B. Total value was about $88.
11/14 4:10 PM Theft - Three boxes of disks 
valued at $70 stolen from Bureau of Mines 
building B.
11/14 11:47 PM Disorderly Conduct - A
Continued from page 1
Recluses: the flesh around the bite became 
infected with gangrene. He said it was not 
simply a severe allergic reaction: "I'm not 
allergic to anything." But he can't prove it 
was a Brown Recluse because there is no 
way to tell from the bite; to determine the 
kind of spider that bit him he would have to
actually catch it "There's a lot of evidence 
(that it was a Brown Recluse), there's just no 
conclusive legal proof."
As for not moving out when Housing 
finally asked him to, Polombo stated that he 
had midterms to study for at the time and he 
academically could not afford to evacuate. 
Midterms came before the bite.

---------------------------------------------------

November 25,1986The TartanPage 5
Frank Zappa speaks, answers questions in Skibo Ballroom
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Addressing subjects ranging from AIDS to 
Ed Meese, from religion to Reagan, Frank 
Zappa, controversial musician and cult 
figure, spoke at Carnegie Mellon last week.
The lecture, sponsored by the Activities 
Board, brought an audience of 600 into 
Skibo Ballroom on November 18. The 
audience was mostly comprised of students, 
but members of the faculty and outside press 
were also in attendance.
In a Tartan interview prior to the lecture 
Zappa spoke candidly about many issues. 
Responding to questions about the 
controversial nature of his music, Zappa 
stated firmly that he does not believe that 
modern music is responsible for acts of 
murder, suicide, incesat and a plethera of 
other social problems. "If lyrics make people 
do things...how come we don't love each 
other?" He says that the main effect of music 
is "to make the listener dance." The 
songwriter went on to suggest that those 
who argue a causal relationship between 
music and criminal acts consider Hitlers 
passion for Wagner.
Continuing on the subject of the music 
industry, Zappa criticized the recent video 
craze, saying that record companies are now 
at the mercy of M-TV and are just now 
discovering that theyve made a mistake in 
switching much of their emphasis to the 
video industry. He pointed out that a 4 
minute video costs more to produce than an 
entire album, and calls this trend the "Brave 
New World of picture music."
Advancing theories about the origin of 
AIDS, Zappa suggested that the disease may 
have come from space or been released in a 
government virological warfare cam-paign. 
He also purported that AIDS may have come 
from a genetic engineering firm in the 
private sector run by the fundamen-talist 
right who seek to "kill queers for Jesus."
photo by Andy Gillespie
Frank Zappa addresses a sold out audience in the Skibo Ballroom.
Responding to a question about anti-drug 
laws, Zappa contends that drug problems are 
serious - but the problem lies in the results 
not usage . People have a right object to 
impaired performance because of substance 
abuse. Zappa argued that the worst problem 
is with alcohol, but that it sounds better to 
fight against non-liquid drugs.
When asked who he supports for the 
presidency in 1988, Zappa commented, 
"Cuomo makes a good speech - but he's 
from Queens. Iacocca has good business 
sense, but bad personality traits. Robert 
Dole seems like a reasonable guy with a 
statesman-like aura, even though hes a 
Republican."
Zappa also spoke about his new album, 
"Jazz from Hell." He says that 90% of the 
album was done using a synklavier computer 
which sounds like real instruments.
Zappa criticized Reagans Star Wars 
program saying that he doesn't think it is 
worthy of our support, but that research is a 
good thing.
Discussing his own evolution with Tartan 
reporters, Zappa spoke about the present and 
the future. "I dont think Im that much 
different now than I was in the 60s." In ten 
years, he still wants to be writing music.
Turning towards the political side of life in 
his lecture, Zappa was particularly
condemnative of the Meese Commission and 
the religious right He claimed that the 
fundamentalist right wants to change
America into a fascist theocracy.
Considering U.S. Attorney General Ed 
Meese, the musician asserted, "I regard Ed 
Meese as one of the most dangerous men in 
America today...not because hes clever, but 
because he's stupid."
Frank Zapa spoke for twenty minutes in a 
strict lecture style and then answered 
questions from th eaudience for 
approximately an hour and a half.
PUTTINGPIECESTOGETHER...
Shed light on
the matterSTUDY TECHNIQUES 
SEMINAR
A peer study counselor will present:
Session 3:
"Effective Term paper writting & exam 
taking"
Saturday, December 6, 1986
11 am - noon
SKIBO 12

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanNovember 25, 1986
Fraternities and Sororities Compete for Presidents Cup
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
An afternoon of field games on Sunday, 
November 16, completed the 1986 
President's Cup Competition, a program for 
CMU fraternities and sororities that 
emphasized community service  through 
two successful blood drives  and greek 
spirit. This year's overall winner, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma sorority, will retain the 
honor and the President's Cup, a traveling 
trophy, until next year's competition.
Engraved traveling plaques congratulate 
Delta Gamma sorority for their second place 
achievement, and Delta Upsilon, Pi Kappa 
Alpha, and Sigma Tau Gamma fraternities 
for achieving respective first, second and 
third place finishes.
"The President's Cup Competition offsets 
the intensely competitive Greek Sing, Booth 
and Sweepstakes activities in the Spring," 
said Christopher Knowles, Co-Chair of the 
Inter-Fratemity Council's Projects 
Committee. "Based on our experience this 
year: the first President's Cup Competition, 
well have the next competition planned 
before the 1987 fall semester begins."
"This [the President's Cup] is an 
interesting idea and a good way for the 
Greeks to go -as long as the competition 
doesn't generate hostility between houses," 
said CMU President Richard M. Cyert 
during a November 2 interview. "It earns 
merit from the University."
"I had a great time during Sunday's 
competition. Everyone just had fun and 
celebrated being Greek. All the houses 
seemed to mix together; it was competitive 
enough to be exciting," said Cathy Veit, a 
sister at Kappa Kappa Gamma.
"We accomplished our goals: we had two
successful blood drives. We had a fall event 
that sparked Greek enthusiasm and everyone 
that participated had a great time." said Tom 
Bonvissuto, Inter-Fratemity Council 
President
And in other Greek News: Sigma
Nu, Kappa Sigma and Pi Lambda Phi 
fraternity brothers will participate in 
WQED's annual December pledge telethon. 
"We go every year, and have fun answering 
telephones and being on TV," said Matt 
Hancock, Kappa Sigma's Public Service 
Chair. "We can't reach this year's one 
million dollar goal without volunteers to 
staff telephones," said Donna Galim, 
Director of Donor Services at WQED. "The 
money pays for programming and operating 
costs."
Sigma Tau Gamma fraternity brothers 
canvassed CMU last Friday to gather 
contributions for the Muscular Distrophy 
Association. "One of our Executive 
Trustees is in charge of the Muscular 
Distrophy drive for the Pittsburgh 7-11 
stores," said Mike Zawrotny, Sigma Tau 
Gamma Chartering Chair. "We raised over 
$200 today, and we're planning a car wash in 
the spring."
Marines Sergeant Brett Bosley, a Kappa 
Delta Rho fraternity pledge, coordinates the 
on-campus efforts for the Toys For Tots 
campaign on behalf of the Pittsburgh Marine 
Reserves. "The Kappa Delta Rho brothers 
and pledges are helping the Marines gather 
the toys, which the Marines will distribute 
to needy Pittsburgh children during the 
holidays," Bosley said. "We'll accept any 
toy  even ones that we can fix. Just deliver 
them to Kappa Delta Rho: I'll deliver the 
toys to the Marine Reserves on December 
15."
The combined efforts of Delta Delta Delta 
sorority and Theta Xi fraternity members 
earned $62,000 for Multiple Sclerosis, 
Children's Hospital, and The Ohio Lung 
Association for Athsma. The 160-person 
group solicited contributions at Pittsburgh
intersections and sponsored a fund-raising 
mixer during the weekend of November 15 and 16.
Delta Tau Delta fraternity earned $778 for 
the American Cancer Association at their 
Postman Party on November 14.
photo by Andy Gillespie
The sisters of Delta Gamma try their hand at gazorching during the Presidents Cup 
competition. They finally mastered the technique and were able to hit the target
RMC Offers Tax Workshop
A comprehensive workshop to help 
practitioners review the significant and 
complex changes of the recent Tax Reform 
Act will be offered by Robert Morris 
College, December 11-13, at the Moon 
Township campus.
The three-day workshop offers 13 sessions 
covering all aspects of the Act Features 
include:
Instruction by experienced professionals, 
including Internal Revenue Service 
managers and Robert Morris College 
faculty from the Graduate School of
Taxation.
A total of 24 credit hourseight 
each daythat enrolled agents may 
count toward 1RS and CPA Continuing 
Professional Education requirements.
Sessions in the spacious and 
comfortable Sewall Center.
Participants may enroll for the entire 
workshop or for daily sessions. For 
more information, call the Robert 
Morris College School of Continuing 
Education, 262-8442.
ARTS AND CRAFTS SALE
Get ready for Christmas!
Arts and Crafts Sale will be held in the Skibo Lobby
Tuesday - Thursday 
December 2,3,4 
10am - 5pm
Sponsored by Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Fall 1986 Senate Election Results
CIT (5 seats)
Carolyn Sharpe 
Stuart Rapoport 
John Scptt Maxwell 
David Lewis 
David Goldstein
DanaHausman 
Erica Levy 
Raju Bendre 
Kalpesh Shastri
45
33
22 (1/2 seat)
Allen Greenberg 
Shep Bostin 
Elizabeth Sherlock
Audrey Liu 
Allan West
Celeste Clark
TheThe
JUST-A-CUTDESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUT
only $25.00oow $13.00only $8.00
Complete with written guaranteeComotet4 with shampoo and blow stvle.
Cut only
Vol sane
FREE
DELIVER
WITHIN 30 
MINUTES ? ? ? ? ? 622-7000
PIZZACHEESE 
SUPREME
12" CHEESE 
$4.40 
16" CHEESE 
$6.50
ITALIAN
HOAGIE
12" WHOLE...$3.95 
6" HALF .$2.00
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland Sun-Thurs 1lam-lam
_______ _FH
"cou 
Our Gang 
Pizza 
$1.00 OFF 
Large Pizza
622-7000
M|xgtres11/3(y86 _
11am-2amrCOUPON
Our Gang 
Pizza
50c OFF 
Small Pizza
622-7000
PUTTING 
PIECES 
TOGETHER...
November 25, 1986The TartanPage 7
J^TJj^E_CQUPQN_
SAVE $2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer Expires:
Nov. 30.1986nuiTiwiFUECWON HACVTTBWJ
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED!^^J|
Great Styles Start at.^^ MmM* 
" BeameuOfteilimtt.PREOSCN MAWCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street fromOakland Post Office
687-3500
Senate Passes Budget
By KEVIN POECKING 
Tartan Staffwriter 
Last Tuesday, the Student Senate meeting 
began with the budget hearings for Fall 
1986. The motion to move to a committee 
of the whole allowed each senator to act as a 
member of the Funding and Recognition 
Committee. Senators discussed each club or 
organization's proposed budget, and 
representatives were there to answer 
questions and defend their separate budgets. 
After many changes to the budgets, the 
Senate passed the final package of $37,782 
total subsidy.
Following the budget hearing, Senate 
recognized the Filmmaking Club and the 
United Gospel Choir as funded 
organizations. The Filmmaking Club was 
given $908, and the Choir was allocated
$4,720 (mostly for the initial costs of 
robes). In addition, Senate discussed the 
freezing of the Objectivist Club's funds by 
the chairman of the Funding and 
Recognition Committee and voted to 
unfreeze them. After representatives of the 
clubs had left, and the Rules Committee had 
reported no change in the definition of 
political groups, Senate decided to remove 
all funding from the the club for next year. 
It was decided they were too political in their 
actions and the Senate Constitution forbids 
funding to a political organization.
- A complete list of the separate club's 
bug/Mt^can be found in this issue of the 
Tartan. There will be no Student Senate 
meeting tonight and the final meeting will 
be held next week, Tuesday, December 2.
We ware looking for new 
shades when I realised it 
was time to do some
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
driving me crazy So, we 
cruised right Into Oreat 
Expectations. Now with 
my new cut, my hair Is 
driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
lnsep-urable ever since.
uffOTITlMu
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 25, 1986
R.A.S Attend Seminar on Separation and Loss
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter 
A seminar on Separation and Loss, held 
last Tuesday, gave Resident Assistants 
(R.A.s) an opportunity to discuss their 
experiences and learn how to apply their 
insights to help people. Terry Hamann, a 
Duquesne University Doctoral Candidate 
from the CMU Counseling Center, guided 
the discussion, which was arranged by the 
R.A. In-Service Committee.
"There's a lot of R.A. interest in this 
subject," said Anne Svedberg, committee 
member and R.A. for the first and second 
floors of Morewood C and D towers. "We 
[the In-Service Committee] bring in a 
specialist about every two weeks to give a 
workshop that will enhance R.A.s' lives -
- and help R.A.s learn about program 
options for their floor or dorm."
Recent In-Service programs include Stress 
Management, Relaxation Techniques, 
Healthy Eating, an R.A. Exchange, and 
"From an Alcoholic's Perspective", led by a 
female alcoholic undergoing treatment at a 
local Alcoholics Anonymous chapter. 
Laura Christopherson, R.A. for Mudge 3rd
floor B-wing, designed a mural for residents 
explaining healthy eating habits after she 
attended the Healthy Eating seminar.
"Our committee is really active  the 
R.A.s decide on topics and what is a good 
time in the semester to present them. For 
instance, we're having a backrub professional 
in on Reading Day, which is a stressful time 
for most students." said Linda K. Seifert, 
the In-Service Committee Advisor and Area 
Coordinator for Oakland and Shadyside. 
"Our In-Service seminars are geared towards 
the R.A.s' personal and professional 
development."
The In-Service Committee is part of a 
network of 12 Program Enhancement 
Committees (P.E.C.s), which deal with the 
organization of the R.A. program. Each 
P.E.C. is led by one of the four Area 
Coordinators and staffed by R.A.s who are 
particularly interested in that issue: from 
R.A. evaluations and hiring, to faculty 
involvement in residence halls and an R.A. 
newsletter.
"We provide extensive orientation training 
at the start of each semester," said Michael
C. Murphy, Assistant Director of Housing
for Resident Life. "On-going leadership and 
professional development is not just for the 
R.A. job, for the benefits of leadership skills 
can conceivably last the rest of their lives."
"The P.E.C.s are job-related," said Seifert. 
"The R.A.s aren't spoonfed: they learn first
hand about the overall picture of what's 
involved with managing and motivating a 
staff of 68."
In addition to serving on at least one 
P.E.C., R.A.s must be certified 
in CPR and basic first aid techniques 
Furthermore, they must meet with CMU 
Gay and Lesbian Alliance members to 
discuss ways that R.A.s can increase campus
awareness and address the concerns of 
and lesbian students.gay
SAA takes down shanty temporarily
The Students Against Apartheid erected a 
shanty on the cut near Doherty Hall cm 
Halloween Day as a symbolic protest of the 
living conditions of blacks in South African.
The SAA dismantled the shanty on Sunday 
night, November 23. The group came under 
no duress from the university administration 
to take down the shanty.
Members of the student group say that it is 
simply "time to take it down." The students 
say that with Thanksgiving coming, most 
students will be leaving campus anyway, and
that this particular shanty has outlived its 
usefulness. But some of the students are 
quick to add that another shanty will be 
erected at the beginning of next semester, 
when activity picks up on campus.
Despite the winter temperatures, students 
were in the shanty at all times and even slept 
in the structure. When asked if problems 
with finding people to sleep in the shanty at 
night had led to the dismantling of the hut, 
members of SAA stated that getting students 
to sleep in the shanty was no problem.
Need a Taiwan "A" Flu Shot?
Yes if:
1. you are under the age of 35, for whom influenza 
vaccination is recommended.
2. you have a history of heart or lung problems.
3. you are taking drugs that supress your immune 
system.
4. you have had your spleen removed.
The Health Center will provide the flu shot 
for a cost of $2.00 
Wednesday mornings 
8:30am-12 noon
* A new variant "A" virus may cause outbreaks in the US 
this season.
Free! Beer, Soda, & SnacksID Mandatory
Seflis^ciass
ppy Hour
Wednesday, December 3 4:30 - 6:30 pm Wherrett RoomSponsored by: The Senior Class Gift Co-Chairs

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 1986The TarpanPage 9
Pitts. Brewing Co. Collects For Childrens Hospital
PITTSBURGH, PA, November 17, 1986Pittsburgh Brewing Company today 
announced the establishment of a new 
holiday program to benefit Childrens 
Hospital as a extension of its successful 
Golden Opportunity campaign.
The new program, Do Something Extra, 
is a collective campaign involving 5,000 
taverns, beer distributors and wholesalers in 
the Western Pennsylvania area.
A joint effort with KDKA-AM and 
Pittsburgh Brewings area distributors, Do
Something Extra provides that for each 
extra case of Pittsburgh Brewing products 
purchased during the holiday season (mix or 
match Iron City, I.C. Light, I.C. Golden and
I.C. Cooler), the company will donate $1.00 
to the Childrens Hospital Christmas drive.
Childrens Hospital of Pittsburgh serves a 
wide geographic region. Between July 1985 
and July 1986, 7,429 children from 
Allegheny County were in-patients at 
Childrens Hospital.
Pittsburgh Brewings Golden Opportunity
for Childrens Hospital program continues 
this season as scheduled, for its third 
successive year in conjunction with KDKA. 
Backed by I.C. Golden donation canisters 
and celebrity support, the program has raised 
nearly $80,000 for the hospital in its initial 
two years.
Our programs for Childrens Hospital 
have always been well supported by our 
customers and the public in general, said 
Harvey Sanford, president and chief executive 
officer of Pittsburgh Brewing. We see the
Do Something Extra program as a chance 
for us to do even more for a very worthy 
cause. Its something of which were very 
proud.
The program will extend into all of 
Pittsburgh Brewings markets and will run 
through December 31.
Pittsburgh Brewing Company, the nations 
ninth largest brewer, celebrates its 125th
anniversary this year.
For further information, please call Bill 
Eiler at (412)682-7400.
Sarah Lawrence College Announces Guest Year1
Sarah Lawrence College, a pioneer in the 
exploration of new approaches to the study 
of women and society, announces a Guest 
Year in Womens Studies, to begin in 
September, 1987. It is open to 
undergraduates from accredited colleges and 
universities.
The Womens Studies program at Sarah 
Lawrence is interdisciplinary, annually 
offering a variety of courses in history, 
literature, writing, sociology, anthropology, 
philosophy, and psychology. Each course 
has its primary focus on the study of women 
and gender roles, and students may choose 
from over thirty additional thematicallyrelated courses. The program also offers 
opportunities for fieldwork in womens 
organizations, publishing, and politics in 
New York City and Westchester County, 
New York, and hosts frequent lectures, 
films, and special events relating to 
Womens Studies.
Sarah Lawrencewhose masters degree 
program in womens studies was the first in
the nationis well-known for its 
encouragement of feminist scholarship. This 
private liberal arts college, coeducational 
since 1968, has a student/faculty ratio of just 
9:1 and offers a challenging and supportive 
community that emphasizes close work 
between student and teachers. Guest year 
students enjoy the same benefits as other 
undergraduates:
Students enrolled in the Guest Year in 
Womens Studies take three five-credit 
courses each semester, or three ten-credit 
courses for the year. The Sarah Lawrence 
curriculum annually offers more than 30 
courses thematically related to womens 
studies, in addtion to the core womens 
studies courses.
All courses are seminars of no more than 
15 students.
For each course, students meet 
individually with their teachers every other 
week. These meetings, known as 
conferences, are the framework for further indepth study tailored to each students
interests.
The conference system allows students to 
focus on issues relating to womens studies 
in all of their courses, even if some classes 
are outside the womens studies program. 
Recent conference topics have included:
Oral Histories of Three Generations of 
Black Women
The Yonkers Carpet-Weavers Strike of 
1885
Women in the Russian Revolution 
Black Women Writers of the 1920s 
Women in the French Revolution 
An Exploration of the Life of Mary 
Wollstonecraft 
Representations of Mothers in Literature
Victorian Governesses: A Study in 
Dependency 
Sarah Larence College, founded in 1926, is 
located on 35 wooded acres in Bronxville, 
New York, southern Westchester County, 30 
minutes by train or car from Manhattan. The 
proximity of the college to New York City, 
a national center of feminist scholarship and 
activity, allows students to take advantage of 
the metropolitan areas unparalled resources 
fo historical, literary, and cultural research.
For more information, write to Carole 
Nichols, Coordinator, Guest Year in 
Womens Studies, Sarah Lawrence College, 
Bronxville, New York 10708, or call 
(914)337-0700, ext. 405.
Twftm Eleeit&o>m TamblH I
Right here in the office, next 1 
Tuesday, December 2 at 9:30pm
HEALTHENHANCEMENT
PUTTING 
PIECES 
TOGETHER...

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Remember the 
Student Center
Remember the Student Center, that long-dreamed of 
sturcture that was to have an olympic-size swimming 
pool, an indoor track, racquet-ball courts and offer 
students a central meeting place and a place to spend 
free time (besides Hunt Library that is)?
Just when everyone was beginning to forget about 
it...progress is made! An architectural competition 
was recently announced by the University to solicit 
designs for the rebuilding and expansion of Skibo 
from top architectural firms. We congratulate the 
University for taking this definite step down the road 
to the realization of this project.
A time table has not yet been announced for the 
building of the Center, but it is probably safe to 
assume that none of us who are currently 
undergraduates will be around to see the finished 
prodect. This should not diminish our enthusiasm for 
the project. A Student Center is a necessary addition 
to the school. It will attract more students to this 
campus, and improve the quality of life for them once 
they are here. Whether you have school spirit and 
concern for the future of Carnegie Mellon or you just 
want to maintain the value of you degree, this project 
has to be seen as an important one.
No one will contest that the current excuse for a 
Student Center is highly inadequate. Just think what it 
will mean to future students to be able to get from one 
part of the building to another without having to go 
out into the harsh Pittsburgh cold, to have someplace 
soft to sit and talk with friends, to have a swimming 
pool measured in meters rather than yards and more 
meeting space. We encourage students and 
administration alike to keep sight of these lofty goals 
and continue to push forward to see that they are 
realized in the form of a real, bonafied Student Center.
End Farm Subsidies
The current system of farm subsidies must be 
stopped. What began as a well-meaning but illconceived program has become ridiculous. Like so 
many heroin addicts, we have allowed, even insisted, 
that the nations grain producers become hooked on 
government price supports and payments at the 
expense of efficiency, competition and all other free 
market principles.
Problems with the current subsidy system are 
numerous. Our government is paying farmers to leave 
large areas of land idle, paying them not to produce as 
much as they could. And we are paying more for what 
they don't produce than we are for what they do 
produce, so who would expect the fanners to refuse 
the government payments? Another major problem 
with the subsidies is that the government is fixing 
grain prices. The government sets and announces 
target prices, which competing prudecers need only 
undercut by a few cents per bushel in order to capture 
new increasingly large segments of the markets. In 
trying to prop up our farmers, we are actually pricing 
them out of the market
U.S. taxpayers are currently paying $25 billion per 
year for farm subsidies. This figure is increasing 
steadily and rapidly. In fact, farm subsidies are 
increasing at a higher rate than any other segment of 
the federal budget, even the runaway defense budget.
Those who criticize the idea of ending farm subsidies 
argue that small farmers will be condemned to 
financial ruin. This is indeed the sad truth. But we are 
plugging approximately six times as much into 
subsidies as we were five years ago, and still many 
farmers are going under because of financial 
difficulties. A different solution must be found for the 
problems of American fanners.
Simply cutting off the aid cold is not the answer. 
Small fanners who cannot match large grain 
producers in efficiency should be paid to switch 
crops, paid to go back to school and pursue a different 
career, or simply paid directly to relieve their financial 
hardship. Anything would be better than fixing prices, 
sacrificing efficiency and ensuring that American 
producers will not be competetive on the world 
market, which is what happens under the current 
system.
Letters:
Student Suggests Letter-writing campaign
Editor:
Apartheid is wrong.
The Students Against Apartheid 
know this.
The Carnegie Mellon 
administration knows this.
Yet, no solution which satisfies 
both groups is forthcoming.
I am making a proposal which I 
hope will bring the SAA and 
Warner Hall closer together and 
also increase involvement in the 
Carnegie Mellon anti-apartheid 
movement. I believe a letter 
writing campaign to our two 
Pennsylvania Senators and to 
President Reagan would be a very 
effective way to show how 
concerned the people of Carnegie 
Mellon are with the Apartheid 
issue. Just as Biko Hall keeps the 
issue of Apartheid alive in the 
minds of the students and faculty 
of Carnegie Mellon, so would a 
letter writing campaign, perhaps 
with more immediate results.
Biko Hall is a moving reminder 
of the strife of blacks in South 
Africa. I offer this letter writing 
campaign as an alternative to 
students and faculty who want to 
do something to end Apartheid, 
but do not have the time or desire 
to get involved in SAA activities. 
The approach will be similar to a 
petition campaign but more 
personal, and for this reason I feel 
the approach will be more 
effective.
The purpose of our Federal 
Government is to represent the 
opinions of the American people. 
We can express our views to our 
representatives in two ways. 
First, we can elect people we 
believe will do a good job of 
representing us. Secondly, we can 
tell these representatives how we 
feel through communications 
such as letters and telephone 
calls. It is our representatives 
responsibilty to act on our
suggestions. I believe they will 
act with the force of the Federal 
Government if they know what 
we want, but first we must tell 
them what we want. What the 
students and faculty of Carnegie 
Mellon want is to see Apartheid 
abolished. Now.
The details of my plan are as 
follows:
Post cards with the addresses of 
Senator Heinz, Senator Specter, 
and President Reagan will be 
inserted in The Tartan as a 
supplement. I request that Warner 
Hall assumes the cost of 
maufacturing these post cards. 
Concerned students and faculty 
can state their views on the 
Apartheid issue on the backs of 
these cards. A good thing to write 
might be I believe that the 
United States Federal Government 
should take a greater role in the 
fight to end Apartheid 
immediately. The post cards will 
then be returned to a central 
location on campus. The 
Information Desk would probably 
best serve this purpose. The 
administration would then be 
responsible for getting the post 
cards to Washington. The total 
cost of the post cards and the 
postage may be substantial, but I 
feel that the administration will
agree that the venture will be 
considerably less expensive than 
divestment.
I believe that this campaign can 
bring the people in Biko Hall and 
Warner Hall closer together 
simply because it will serve the 
needs of both groups. The SAA 
will see increased student and 
faculty awareness and involve
ment through a positive action. 
The administration will show the 
public that it is truly concerned 
with the Apartheid issue while 
not taking the financial risk of 
divestment. Carnegie Mellon can 
more effectively fight Apartheid if 
its administration, students and 
faculty join forces.
I invite the people in Warner 
Hall to get in touch with me. We 
could have this campaign going 
by early next semester.
If anyone would like to get in 
touch with their Senators now, 
you can write them at:
The United States Senate 
Washington, D.C. 20510
The Presidents address is: 
President Reagan 
The White House 
Washington, D.C. 20500
Rick Chadwick
Shanty Debate Continues
Editor:
In response to the myriad letters 
published in the November 18th 
Tartan :
It seems this discussion has 
boiled down to the issue of the 
symbolism of the shanty itself 
and the vast discrepancy between 
the state of affairs at Biko Hall 
and those in South Africa today. 
The irrelevancy these people see 
in my point about the lack of 
originality is a natural posture for 
them to take. It, indeed, seems
irrelevant. However, I assure you 
it is not so for the following 
reasons.
The concept of a shanty was 
originally an effective means of 
presenting the anti-Apartheid 
message to the public in that it 
was original. To repeat overused 
ideas in advertisement causes 
disinterest in the consumer, 
which is why companies spend 
millions trying to develop new 
ways to entice the public into
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

November 25,1986The TartanPage 11
Carnegie Mellon University: The Other Face?  *.'
By JJ. SERVAN-SCHREIBER 
The Knowledge Revolution
The Tartan has treated with fairness, even 
generosity, my essay, now published as 
The Knowledge Revolution. It has also 
criticized it, for good reason - to which I 
wish to add some, if I may. ___________
Opinion
I shall not challenge these critics, nor 
retreat from my basic admiration for the 
revolutionary adventure in learning the 
Carnegie Mellon represents. But I would be 
less than candid if I did not make clear, in 
these same well-read columns, my critical 
view of the less idealized side of CMU: the 
student's life.
As Chairman of the International 
Committee, and from France, I discuss 
several thimes a wekk with students, here, 
that have come from ail over the world. 
Mainly, these days: Indians, Koreans,
Tetters Cont.:
continued from page 10
purchasing their goods or services. I would 
imagine the vast majority of the students 
here at CMU have already been exposed to 
the shanty idea, either by first hand 
experience or through the media, and to see 
the same old shanties with the same old 
slogans scribbled over them does nothing 
but belabor the point that the contributing 
authors and the remainder of the Students 
Against Aparthied are trying to make, 
causing nothing but apathy and disinterest 
excepting in cases of the other concerned 
men and women who would have been 
predisposed to join their ranks even before 
the shanty protest came about, but did not 
for some reason or another.
The hypocrisy of the students living in 
the shanty exists whether they made any
Editor:
The elections Board of Alpha Phi Omega 
invalidated my petition for Student Senate 
elections because one of the signatures on 
it appeared on another petition so that the 
number of valid signatures on mine was 
reduced to 24 (not enough for a valid 
petition).
I find Alpha Phi Omegas validation 
procedure unfair and misinformed and, 
consequently the Senate elections are void.
It appears that there has been a slight 
misinterpretation of the Election Board 
Guidelines that has persisted throughout the 
Student Senate elections run by Alpha Phi 
Omega.
The Election Board Guidelines synopsis 
does not state that a petition for a Senate 
seat cannot have duplicate signatures.
With the Senate race a person can 
conceivably vote for as many candidates as 
there are seats available; one signature 
could be valid on as many petitions as there 
are seats open. This is why the 
Constitution does not mention that a 
signature must not appear on any more 
than one petition when adedressing the area 
f Senate petitions.
An area where the Constitution is 
ambiguous is that it does not explicitly 
state that while a signature for a petition 
for a Senate seat may appear on more than 
one petition it should become invalid if the 
same signature appears on more petitions 
foan there are seats available; in this case 
foe person could not conceivably vote for
of the candidates.
Taiwanese, French, Swiss, Chinese, and 
some others. To these discussions, of 
course, US students always come and join. 
The clamor is unanimous: life at CMU is 
work, work, and work. And then more 
work. They love their studies; they know 
they have the best faculty, the best 
equipment, and they know the values of the 
degrees they are earning with their ifforts. 
But is that all?
A few examples:
-Students barely know each other 
because there is no attractive place to meet 
and discuss. No place to have a good time 
together. No place to stop in the afternoon 
for a chat. No place to listen to music. No 
place to read together and enjoy a joke, or a 
debate, something like those "cafes" in the 
streets of Paris that made my native city 
famous for stimulating young minds and 
creating bonds of friendship.
-What guides these hard-working 
students towards the boats on the rivers at 
their feet, the ski slopes so closeby, and 
other physical enhoyments of superb
environment!
Last week I enjoyed a boat ride. The sun 
was still with us, and some students around 
to chat. They had no chance to explore the 
ancient, historical parts of the city of 
Pittsburgh. Who has ever told them the 
adventures of the French garrisonof Fort 
Duquesne, the saga of William Pitt, the 
British statesman (for whom Pittsburgh is 
named), the failed attempt of George 
Washington in his expedition here against 
the British, some years before the founding 
of this nation, etc...These students know a 
lot about Artificial Intelligence, not much 
about these natural treasures of real life.
What about the unique architectural 
marvel of Frank Lloyd Wright at "Falling 
Water"? Few of them had been there. It is 
less than an hour away. It could be in the 
Far East or the North Pole.
The list of complaints I hear would be 
quite long. Let us conclude.
Students also complain about the food; 
most dorms do not provide simple, basic, 
environment for quiet reading, convenient
of the Shanty
Men in Ireland die to effect unity between 
Ulster and the Republic or to prevent it. 
Though I do not expect the Students 
Against Apartheid to take up arms and 
storm Pres-ident Cyerts office under a 
banner of blood and divestiture. The 
campers might as well go back to their 
cozy dorm rooms and do their homework 
and sleep in their nice, warm beds, free 
from the evils of frostbite and hunger, 
which would be a course of action perfectly 
allowable under their present divergence 
from the South African reality.
I have been approached by many students 
(probably more than have come up to the 
shanty looking for the straight scoop on 
South Africa) that agree with my views. 
We, as a group united behind common 
ideas, made the assertion that we disagree 
strongly with Apartheid, but we did not 
make the pledge to take extraordinary 
measures to fight it other than those 
normally taken to petition our respective 
representatives in Congress. The Students 
Against Apartheid did make that pledge. We
The Tartan is the official student newspaper 
of Carnegie Mellon University It is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the tall 
and spring semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is printed 
by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning fo the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan editonal board or staff Letter to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community 
A letter intended for publication must be
conversation, or decent rest. Facilities for 
physical exercisae are all but ignored, even 
in the wonderful natural surroundings of 
Schenley Park; the real beauty of Oakland 
is put to little use. When you see the 
students of this No. 1 University of the 
U.S. - in so many domains from 
Cognitive Science to Architecture, for AI 
to Drama - become progressively incapable 
of enjoying real leisure...you start to think 
again.
This is the training place for the pioneers 
and the champions of the "Knowledge 
Revolution." We must wonder how they 
can enjoy knowledge and invent the world 
to come if only half of them - the cerebral
- is challenged and equipped, the other - 
their lifestyle - ignored
Are these young men and women to 
become creators of a better life.
So that we can, together with them, 
invent the best solutions to make Carnegie 
Mellon "the most livable campus," and not 
only the best Institute - they have to speak 
up, here and now.
Protest
may wear a Divest Now badge if we so 
desire, but we choose not to do so. We may 
live a life more akin to that of the boor 
black in South Africa if we choose to. We 
do not. The contributing authors and the 
Students Against Apartheid must realize 
that the public opinion of the people of the 
United States, voiced through 
Congressional representation has achieved 
partial sanctions against South Africa with 
the ends of the abolishment of Apartheid. 
Carnegie Mellon has yet to divest! The 
symbol of the shanty as a form of action 
is, in fact, not action at all. It is lassitude: 
waiting and hoping for things to happen. 
Talk without action is nothing, and you 
know that is undeniably true.
I would like to say, however, that I 
appreciate Greg Staresinics reply for its 
frank, genuine, and informative wording; 
much unlike the remainder of the letters 
that were published in the November 18th 
issue of The Tartan.
signed and indude the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names wi* be 
withheld upon request The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter or column. 
Copyright 1986 by The Tartan. The editonal 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication 
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon Urnv 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. AI rights 
reserved Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Student Responds to Defense
Lonsky Calls Elections Void
such statement of the intent to represent 
reality or not. The mere fact that they 
refuse outright to live in similar conditions 
is as deep as it need get. I hope that I am 
correct in believing that Students Against 
Aparthied and the contributing authors 
undoubtedly believe (and may I state that I 
believe this as well) that all men are 
brothers in humanity. Then why on Earth 
not gain perspective on their 
unfortunate way of life and show genuine 
sympathy by living as one of them or 
attempting to do so. No one in their right 
mind would pay the least bit of attention to 
a man complaining about South Africans 
starving while that same man is chomping 
contentedly on a Tartan-Burger.
I do not consider camping out to be any 
sort of show of standing behind a cause.
An invalid signature on a petition for a 
Senate seat should only be that which 
appears on more petitions than there are 
seats open or that which is from a student 
not in the constituency of the candidate's.
As a senator I am concerned with this 
misinterpretation; I am going to introduce 
an amendment to the Election Board 
Guidelines and the Bylaws of the 
Constitution to clarify what I have outlined 
as the problems. But that will not help the 
individuals who have been aced from the 
election ballot and Tartan consideration 
because of an arbitrary, unjust system of 
validating petitions propagated by the 
ignorance of the Bylaws of the 
Constitution of the Student GovemmenL I 
call the elections of this fall void and that 
the petitions of those previously invalidated 
be reconsidered for a later election.
Pete Lonsky 
H&SS
Correction:
The homeless condition of the Carnegie 
Mellon student described by last weeks 
feature article is not a result of a cut in the 
student's financial aid as suggested by the 
article. There was nothing contained in the 
student's withdrawal form to suggest that 
financial difficulties were indeed the cause 
for her withdrawal from school. The Tartan 
wishes to apologize to Dean Lois Cox of 
Student Affairs and Mr. Walter C. Cathie, 
Director of Financial Aid for the inaccurate 
accurate account of their roles in this 
matter.
WJE.S. HarmanThe Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAa Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan Assistant
Vyay ReddyJack L. PollerNeil GreeoMum
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing tditor

---------------------------------------------------

A Sleeping Bagger Story
By LYNNE DOMECK
Tartan Staffwriter 
It all started out innocently enough, I 
guess. On Wednesday I got a call from the 
admissions office informing me that I 
would be a host for a sleeping bagger the 
coming Sunday. Having been a sleeping 
bagger myself, I knew what tortures the 
baggers had to endure, and I resolved to 
save my from the drudgery of a sleeping 
bag weekend. As it turned out, though, my 
sweet, innocent bagger gave me quite a 
scare.
Well, here's my harrowing tale. 
Following that fateful phone call, I realized 
that neither my roommate nor I would be 
here for our bagger's arrival. I was going 
home for a much needed rest and my 
roomate Desire' would not return from her 
Paris shopping excursion until late. We 
arranged to have a neighbor take care of 
Gertrude until we returned. I had a 
wonderful quiet weekend at home, so I was 
pretty mellow when I got back to school 
around 5:30 Sunday evening. Gertrude's 
scheduled arrival time as anywhere between 
3:00 and 5:00, so I assumed that she was 
somewhere cm campus. Since I knew about 
the meetings and tours that the baggers 
were encouraged to attend I was not worried 
about her whereabouts. Looking back, I 
guess I should have been more careful. I 
asked around for any information 
concerning my bagger. No one knew for 
sure where she was but several people 
informed me that all the baggers had a 
meeting. As the evening wore on though, 
and everyone else's sleeping baggers 
retruned except mine. I began to worry. 
"Where could she be?" I asked myself. Just 
then my jetsetting roommate entered the 
room. "She's gone!" I cried. "Gone! I think 
we lost her!" With a quizzical look on her 
face, Dsir calmly asked me what I was
talking about "Our bagger! Oh, I feel so 
guilty. We should have been here. I think 
she's lost. I haven't seen her yet!" I fought 
hysterics as I answered my roommate. 
Upon realizing the graveness of the 
situation, Desire' sank into a chair and 
quietly began to mumble unintelligible 
words. Her face was white as a sheet. My 
once blase' roommate was really nervous. 
"What are we going to tell her mother! I 
mean, this poor girl, um ..."
"Gertrude," I supplied.
"Right Gertrude. Well, what I mean is 
this poor, defenseless high school student's 
parents have entrusted us with their little 
daughter. How is it going to look if we 
can't find her and give her back to her 
parents when they come to get her 
tomorrow?" Desire' was really upset now. 
'Tm terribly sorry Mr. and Mrs. Jones, but 
we lost your child. It was an accident, 
honest!" My roommate explained to the air. 
we decided to put the matters into the 
capable hands of the authorities. Yes, we 
called the campus police. They said they 
would do all they could. Once again, we 
asked everyone if they had seen our bagger. 
Once again, no one had. Having exhausted 
all the possibilities, Desire' and I returned 
to our room and played our beloved Barry 
Manilow tape. As long as things were 
going badly, we figured a little Barry 
couldnt hurt. I sat on my bed an stared 
blankly at the ceiling. "I cant believe this 
has happened. What if this gets on my 
record? I'll never get into medical school! If 
I can't even take care of one healthy person, 
how would they expect me to treat a large 
number of sick people?" Beauty school 
began to lode pretty good to me at this 
point Desire' began to mumbel 
unintelligbly. (She does that quite often.) 
"Oh no! This will ruin my career! Ill never 
get a decent acting job. This is the big
scandal that will hang over me like a black 
cloud for my entire life as an actress. Well 
I know most great actresses have been 
involved in a scandal, but it doesn't usually 
happen this early! Oh, what'll I do!"
As if by divine intervention, there was a 
knock at the door. "Come in!" we both 
yelled. The door swung open and in the 
doorway was our bagger! Except the only 
resemblance she had to a bagger was the 
designer sleeping bag at her feet She was 
at least 5'8" with flowing golden tresses 
and the figure of a Greek goddess. As if that 
weren't enough to destroy my fragile ego, 
she opened her mouth to speak. "I am so 
infinitely apologetic for inconveniencing 
you so. It was quite inconsiderate of me, " 
the vision said. God, she had brains too. As 
Desire' and I sat with our mouths agape, 
Gertrude continued in a rush. "I'm terribly 
sorry, but I must leave you both. I found 
the astrophysics program here not quite up 
to that of MIT. I'll be leaving on the next 
flight home to California. Do you mind if I 
use your phone to call a taxi?" 
Astrophysics? California? I was very 
confused. She breezed in and out of our 
room with the confidence of a queen. As 
she left, Gertrude apologized once more and 
bade us farewell. Having been humbled by 
her mere presence, I decided I needed a rest. 
Dsir, who is never humbled, exclaimed, 
"Well, I simply can't believe it! What a 
day. First that awful champagne on the 
Concord and now this! I need my beauty 
rest."
I think news of our misfortune must have 
reahced the admissions office, because the 
following weekend we were not given 
another bagger. Oh, the girls across the hall 
had three, so I think they felt we were not 
fit to have the responsibility. Oh well, 
Dsir and I chalked it up to experience and 
prayed it wouldn't go on our records.Skiing: What youfre probably doing instead of studying
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartna Production Manager 
Yes, I'm back. Tartan ski writer. You all 
are probably going home over vacation for 
only one reason: To sleep and ski. What 
else would you do? Study for Finals? Ha. 
There's a better chance of a CFA student 
taking Circuits 1 and Digital as their senior
elective. Below you will find some quick 
reference guides to fitness and general good 
skiing.
For those of you who can afford to go 
away for the season, you might consider one 
of the many college ski trips planned. There 
are numerous outings to areas such as Banff 
in Canada, the Laurentians, Steamboat and
Vail in Colorado for all relatively 
inexpensive package prices (I know, 
inexpensive is a very relative term) Group 
ski rates cut lift ticket prices by about a 
third, likewise with rentals.
So, you say you've never skied before? No 
problem. Go on a trip, take 2 days off for 
lessons, and they'll have you skiing the
whole mountain in no time.
Just think of it, the freedom, the beauty, 
the untamed powder beconing you to come 
forth, moguls, the excitement and thrill of 
slalom gates taunting you for a challenge, 
apres ski. You against the mountain (so 
what if sometimes it is in the horizontal 
position...)
Tartan 
Guide to Ski Fitness 
(sort of)
Ok, lets look a few weeks down the road.
Youre sitting at home over Vacation 
waxing your skis for your big ski
weekend. But just take a look at
yourself? Are you in shape to tackle the
mountain (or more like skip the mountain 
and hit the bierstube??? Well, its not 
too late to get yourself in some form of 
physical shape.
1. NO Thanksgiving Dinner (unless it's 
at Kilte).
2. Start a regular training program 
including pushups, situps, and jogging.
(Ok, procrastinate it 'till tomorrow.)
3. Do what most skiers do: When you 
get to die slopes, do 3 push-ups before 
you buckle up, suck in your stomach, and 
chalk it off to, "Yea, Tm in shape.
Tartan 
Guide to Good Skiing
Alright folks, I know you. On the 
slopes, you're college people who want to 
let off some steam, relax, and have fun. 
In the process, don't compromise your 
safety and the safety of others. By 
following a few simple ski pointers, you 
should have a safe and happy skiing 
vacation this ski season...
1. If a trail is marked DANGER, 
NUCLEAR TEST SITE - ENTER AT OWN 
RISK, probably it may be wise to take the 
other trail.
2. Ski over moguls, not other skiers.
3. If you see a young (guy or girl - you 
pick) who just fell in the snow, don't run 
them over...help huim/her up - who 
knows, the lodge could be cozier that 
night...
4. Above all, ski safely and in control 
(after alt broken legs 451 aren't cool)
v; ~ J p, ilkistnOions by Kurt Shaw ^

Fish
Reflections on Life, the Universe, and 
Porpoises from a bench outside Doherty...
It's a tad bit nippy out here.
My kingdom far a Kleenex.
An experiment in creativity comes to 
mind...
Why don't we eat porpoises for 
Thanksgiving??
It would overpower the mashed potatoes, 
stuffing and cranberry sauce.
Butterball porpoises would be too 
expensive.
Where would we get it ?? (In the frozen 
food section of your local supermarket?) 
What would the humane society say?
What would the porpoises say?
The Bable fish would be too jealous.
No porpoise traps at Plymouth Rock.
Maybe the porpoise was a sacred animal for 
the Puritans.Porpoises are harder to catch than Bugs 
Bunny.
Maybe someone has invented the recipe for 
porpoise croquettes but it never did sweep 
the nation.
They don't fit in the oven.
Theyre hard to stuff.
Instead of having white meat or daik meat, 
there'd only be grey meat 
What would happen if the world became 
overpopulated with
turkeys? (Let's face it--turkeys were bom to 
die)
Best sellers we could write...
101 Uses for a Rolled Up Sock 
10 Wavs to Pick a Spouse From the Wad 
10 Reasons Not to Pick a Spouse FromJfag
md
Everything You Always Wanted to KflQg 
About Paranoia Put Ww Afraid Sc M 
1.000 Phrases and Cliches for Eygg 
Conceivable Situation 
ISlfigp.Thgrforel Am 
Out Out Damned Spof-the Laundromat
La-La Saga Continues
141__Virtually Foolproof Excuses&
Sleeping Through Your 8; 30 Class 
1Q1 Ways to End a Stupid ArticleAnd thats the way it is on this Saturday 
November 22 in the year of our Lord 
nineteen hundred and eighty-six.

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 1986The TartanPage 13
One More Time - The Intramural Report
Commissioner  Stuart Fox x4259 
please continue to turn in winning scores.
Commissioner  Vince Carozza x5494 
Please pay all bowling fees before the end
of the week.
please check with Commissioner Carozza 
or Dale at the Strand Lanes for team 
standings and playoff schedule.
XaMf TennisCommissioner  Bob Koca x8989 
Please turn in your winning scores to Bob 
or the IM Office.
Please get playoff games played on time. 
netball
Commissioner  Rob Schlackman x5518 
Major League Champion  KS 
Intermediate League Champion  CIA
Soccer
Commissioners:
Major League  Fred Deleon x5432 
Intermediates  Stephanie Janczak x4815 
Minors  Mike Grzywinski x4651 
Women  Stephanie Janczak x4815 
Playoff schedules are posted on IM Bulletin 
Board. All playoff games must be played by 
November 26th. Women Only finals will be 
played over the weekend.
Darts
Commissioner  Paul Pecora 621-9125 
Please play matches as scheduled.
Continue to turn in scores to Paul or the
IM Office.
Water Polo
Commissioner  Carl Bell from Phi Kap 
was selected as a player on the All School 
Water Polo Team.
Three Person Yolteyball
Commissioner  Stuart Fox x4259 
Please get playoff matches played before 
Dec. 4th.
47 teams sets a new school record.
Basketball
FINAL ENTRY DATE  January 8, 1987 
Final entry date will be Thursday, January 
8, 1987 at 4:30 p.m.
There will be no entries after this date. 
Commissioners:
Major League  Dee Nyzio x4608 
Intermediates  Vince Carozza x5494 
Minors  Mike Grzy winski x4651 
Women Only  Dee Nyzio x4608
The 1987 IM Basketball Rules Clinic will 
be held Thursday, January 8th at 4:30 p.m. 
in the Women's Gym.
Each team must have at least one 
representative at this important rules clinic.
We are still looking for good Intramural 
Basketball Officials. Please call Mike at 
x2214 after 4:00 p.m.
Many teams have already signed up for 
basketball starting next semester, but there 
is still time to sign up. We will be taking 
rosters up until final's week. By signing 
your team now, we can begin play as soon 
as we come back in January. The roster that 
you turn in now does not limit your team 
from adding or dropping players. If there are 
changes that occur, rosters may be adjusted 
in January. To assure your team of a spot in 
playing earlier next semester, SIGN YOUR 
TEAM UP THIS SEMESTER in the IM
Office, Room 101 Gym.
In other IM Basketball news, the Officials 
Club for basketball is still looking for 
referees. General knowledge of the game and 
attendance at our basketball clinic on 
Thursday, January 8, at 4:30 in the IM 
Office is all that is needed to earn money 
officiating games. Those interested should 
contact Mike in the IM Office at x2214 
between 4:00-6:00. We anticipate another 
great season of IM Basketball, sign up early 
to avoid missing the action
Backgammon
Commissioner  Shu Lee x3680 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
IM Office. First round must be played by 
November 24 and second round between 
December 1st and 5th.
Floor Hockey
Commissioner Rob Schlackman x5518 and 
Mike Grzy winski x4615 are revising the 
Floor Hockey rules for 1987.
Next Meeting 
The next Intramural Board Meeting will be 
held Thursday, January 8, 1987 in the Gym 
Building Conference Room.
Team Table Tennis
Playoffs start this week. Advancing teams 
Giontella, H.K.L.Y.!, Mobius, and The 
Champs.
BEST WISHES FOR A HAPPY SEASON 
AND GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR 
EXAMS!
THE CMU IM DEPARTMENT
Soccer - Maiors iDiv.A)Team Won Lost
1. Skeleton Crew11
2. Real Mellon North40
3. Capitalist Pigs21
4. CE Stars03
5. SAE20
6. Tai Pan31
7. KE-A03
8. KSA13
BfcJft
1. Gargoyls21
2. MEMS14
3. Doherty Dynasty31
4. Allegheny Wetbacks13
5. Beta04
6. DU-A30
7. PIKA22
8. The Riviera30
Intermediate
1. Phi Kap23
3. AFROTC05
4. CHEGSA40
5. NTBLoM41
6. Theta Xi41
7. ATO '32
8. KDR-A42
9. Boss Hogs04
Minors
1. Donner13
3. CIA50
4. AEn22
5. KDR05
6. TX-B13
7. DU-B13
8. ETN41
9. Dynamic Rams21
10, IIAO41
FUNDED BY CIT/MCS 
ORGANIZED FY S W E
ER
JANUARY 31, 1987
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT SKIBO 
INFORMATION DESK STARTING 
DECEMBER 1, 1986 
6:00 P.M. 
ST. NICHOLAS 
GREEK ORTHODOX CHURCH 
(NEAR CARNEGIE INSTITUTE) 
$12.50 PER PERSON 
OPEN TO ALL CMU STUDENTS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 25, 1986
Big Lift at Carnegie Mellon's Thistle Gym
At Thistle Gym on Saturday November 17, 
the Pittsburgh Interstate Powerlifting 
Competition was held at Carnegie Mellon.
The competition saw participants from 
several different schools: University of West 
Virginia, Point Park College, University of 
Akron, Slippery Rock University, 
University of California, and Carnegie 
Mellon. Carnegie Mellon had the most 
participants, but no single school dominated 
the competition or the audience. The event 
was not heavily advertised so the people who 
attended were, by and large, the participants 
and their own personal routing sections.
The event began with a squat competition. 
The most outstanding lifts in this event 
came from four students who were able to 
lift over 2.5 times their respective weights. 
A pair of students from Slippery Rock each 
lifted over 500 pounds, Mike Vasalani and 
Rob Eckard, as did Joe Gardner, a law 
student at the University of Akron, Ohio. 
While Rob lifted an even 500 pounds at a 
weight of 188, his good friend and colleague, 
Mike lifted 580 pounds at a personal weight 
of 212.5. Mike's lift was the highest of the 
day in the squatting cateagory, but was met 
with frustration since he did not win the 
overall squat competition.
Similarly, Joe Gardner saw his lift of an 
even 500 pounds at a body weight of only 
165 pounds fall victim to the efforts of a 
very special young man, Phil Hile from 
West Virginia. Standing only 50 inches tall 
and weighing a mere 112 pounds, the 
National Record holder lifted 3.34 times his 
bodyweight, for a 375 pound lift, just 20 
pounds short of the National Record that he 
already holds few his age group.
The bench press competition came next 
Although seven people lifted 1.5 times their 
weight, there were really only two 
competitors for the best overall bench press 
competition, Phil Hile and Carnegie
Mellon's Matt Lydick, a junior Computer 
Science major and Vice - President of 
Equipment for the Weight Club. There 
were five people who benched over 350 
pounds: Tim Noren from West Virginia 
(350), Rob Eckard (350), Matthew Lydic 
(360), Gary Smith from University of 
California (380), and again the highest ft of 
the day came from Mike Vasalani (450). 
However, to Mikes despair the overall best 
bench press competition is determined using 
a formula that calibrates a person's lift to 
their bodyweight and Carnegie Mellons 
Matt Lydick took the overall bench press 
competition from both Mike Vasalani and 
Phil Hile.
The dead lifting competition was dominated 
by one man , Phil Hile who missed his 
National Record by only 15 pounds. At 112 
pounds, he lifted 425 pounds cm his final 
attempt Again. Mike Vasalani fell short 
while recording the highest lift of the day in
this competition.
The following trophies were awarded at the 
event: first place bench 205 pound class to 
Gary Smith, second place bench 230 pound 
class to Tim Noren, second place bench 165 
pound class to Dean Germeyer (CM junior), 
first place bench 148 pound class to Matt 
Lydick, second place bench 148 pound class 
to Tom Veres, second place bench 132 
pound class to Steve Brown ( CM 
sophomore), second place squat 230 oupnd 
class to Tim Noren,
second place dead lift 230 pound class to 
Tim Noren, best overall 13 pound class to 
Phil Hile, best overall 165 pound class to 
Joe Gardner, best overall 188 pound class to 
Rob Eckard, best overall 230 pound class to 
Mike Vasalani, best overall bench press to 
Matt Lydick, best overall squat to Phil Hile, 
best overall dead lift to Phil Hile.
Several lifters are worthy of special 
mention. The first is Phil Hile and the
Swimmers in PAC Relays
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Swimming Tartans started off their 
1986-87 season at the Presidents' Athletic 
Conference Relays last Saturday at Grove 
City College placing fourth behind the 
winning Grove City squad.
According to new Head Coach Jim Perkins, 
the PAC Relays were an attempt to see the 
swimmers in their off events. The Tartans 
were led by the 200 meter freestyle medley 
team of Pat Hensler, Steve Francis, Mike 
Fitzgerald, and Tom McConnell which was 
one of three teams to tweak the old meet 
record.
The Tartans placed third in five other 
events: the 300 backstroke (Hensler, John
Bender, and Todd Moor), the 300 
breaststroke (Dave Chamberlin, Doug 
Lindblad, and Hal Levine), the 500 crescendo 
(Chamberlin, Levine, Greg Schooley, and 
Bender), the 4x100 individual medley 
(Chamberlin, Fitzgerald, Levine, and 
Schooley), and the 200 freestyle (Hensler, 
Francis, Fitzgerald, and McConnel).
In other races, the Tartans finshed fourth in 
the 400 meter medley (Bender, John 
Olsavsky, Lindblad, and Moor), the 3x500 
meter freestyle (Olsavsky, Fitzgerald, and 
Mow), and the 4x100 meter freestyle 
(Francis, Hensler, McConnell, and 
Lindblad). The Tartans also took fifth in the 
300 meter fly (Schooley, Francis, and 
Olsavsky).
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2992
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh....................................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection................................................................................ 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid................................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
For research, term papers or relaxation, the "purr-fect" answer is...
The Literary Cat Bookstore 
used books for the finicky reader
1505 Asbury Place 
Sq. Hill 15217
422-0280 |p
The Original Hot Dog Shop
Sun - Thurs 
Fri - Sat
30* offSoup of the Day
3 varieties of soup to choose from
offer expires Dec. 2,1986
9 am - 4:30 am
2 -PJTl- JJL -----------------
Cheeseburger Platter
includes: Cheeseburger, Fries
and Small Coke 
only $299
offer expires Dec. 2,1986
second is Matt Lydick from Carnegie 
Mellon. Phil was able to win the overall 
squat competition while not even being able 
to reach the squat rack itself because of his 
height. The spotters had to lift the bar onto 
his shoulders and wait until Phil was ready 
for them to let go. In addition to being only 
50 inches tall, Phil also suffers from a 
double curvature of the spine, so it is quite 
obvious why he has been featured in several 
magazines and newspapers. The overall 
best bench press competition that Matt won 
here last Saturday is not his first victory in 
competition. Starting in high school, Matt 
has over twenty competitions and trophies to 
his name for his performances at bench press 
competitions.
Although he doesnt suffer from any of 
Phil's handicaps, Matt lifts in an extremely 
competitive weight class and has won an 
exremely high portion of the competitions 
that he has entered.
Attention 
Hockey Players
Any player 
interested in playing for the 
Carnegie Mellon Hockey Club,
Come to the team's first 
1987 practice on Jaunary 6. 
Meet at 4 pm on the lower 
level of Skibo.
If interested, call
Greg Timmons 
771-6576
DEMO STUDIO
Quatrty Recording You Can Afford
JACKPWN
1052 Frankln Drive 
Bethel Park. PA 15102 (412) 83^6398
The Connection
for GAY MEN(412) 976-5000
Talk to up to 8 guysLIVE 
not a recording but a party line!!! Pittsburghs fastest way to meet$1.95 charge / 4 minutes / no minors
Cuts $14416
Lewis
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 1986The TartanPage 15
35mm
sftmr
Seattle FilmWorks has adapted Kodaks professional Motion Picture film for use 
in your 35mm camera. Now yoy can use die same filmwith the same 
microfine grain and rich color saturationHollywood s top studios demand. Its 
wide exposure latitude is perfect for everyday shots. You can capture special 
effects, too. Shoot it in bright or low lightat up to 1200 ASA. Whats more, its 
economical. And remember, Seattle FilmWorks lets you choose prints or slides, 
or both, from the same roll. Try this remarkable film today!
nralntfodi^^ ~ " ]
I ? RUSH me two 20-exposureI
 rolls of Kodak MP film for my umeC  
35mm camera. Id like 2-roll .--------------------------------------------------------1.... _ ADDRESS I
 starter pack including Eastman _________________________________ 
5247* and 5294.* Enclosed is $2 CITY STATE HP |I
 for postage and handling. Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks
500 Third Ave. W., P.O. Box 34056 
100% Satisfaction Guaranteed Seattle, WA 98124
 Ktniik, S24? *nj S294 .re trademarks tf Lsrman KttJ.ik Co Seattle FilmWorks is whufiy separate the manut.nturet Prme ErO it ill
PAC Hoops Preview
By JOHN FRIEDMANN 
Tartan Sports Editor
Controlled optimism was the rule at the 
annual Presidents Athletic Conference 
Basketball luncheon held last week. While 
there were the usual lamentings of lost 
seniors, understaffed teams, and improved 
competitions, most of the teams were upbeat 
about their chances for the conference 
championship in the upcoming season.
No one went out on a limb as much as 
John Carrolls Tim Baab did last year. Baab 
confidently predicted a conference 
championship before the season, and his 
team's 9-3 PAC record was good enough to 
win the conference and get the team into the 
NCAA playoffs.
Third year Carnegie Mellon coach Larry 
Anderson was confident, however. "I really 
feel comfortable about our team this year. 
We have a lot of guys coming back from 
last years team. Thank God for juniors and 
seniors."
Anderson spoke highly of his captians. 
"We have some great leadership out there in 
David Bart and Hart Coleman, our 
captians. .They are great leaders on the court 
and off the court." Of Hart Coleman, he 
noted, "I think he is going to be our most 
improved player..Hes going to be a real 
good Division III player. I think he a bonafide center in Division III"
While optimistic, Anderson did try to 
underscore he difficulty of the Tartans' 
schedule. "I think this is the toughest 
preseason and season schedule we have ever 
had. We are playing the number one sewer 
in the nation at the University of California - 
San Diego. We are playing the number two 
scorer in the nation, Rob Schwartz of 
Hiram, and we are playing the number ten 
scorer in the nation...in the Case 
Tournament...we'll have our work cut out 
for us."
Also conducted were preseason polls of the 
PAC coaches and the media at the event
Coaches' Poll
1st Carnegie Mellon
2nd John Carroll
3rd Grove City
4th Bethany
5th Washington and Jefferson
6th Thiel
7th Hiram
Media Poll
1st John Carroll
2nd Carnegie Mellon
3rd Grove City
4th Thiel
5th Washington and Jefferson
6th Hiram
7th Bethany
Mens
Hoops
Continued from Page 16
UPJ's Steve Dadig and Bob Bauer started 
connecting on three point shots to batde 
back. At this point, Coach Anderson 
brought in freshman guard Gary Breauninger 
to join Franklin in the backcourt for extra 
ballhandling. This however, gave the 
Tartans only three bonafide shooters on the 
floor: Hart Coleman, Cwalina, and Darryl 
Long. With 1:32 left, the game stood tied at 
62.
After both teams missed chances to break 
the tie, Cwalina came through sinking a 
layup, getting fouled in the process. He 
then hit the free throw that provided the 
eventual victory. With three seconds left, 
Doleman scored his twenty-first and twentysecond points to bring the game to one 
point, but Moffatt converted a one and one 
situation at the line to ice the game at 67- 
64.
After the game, Coach Anderson praised 
Cwalinas efforts. "He played a hell of a 
game." Cwalina seemed also seemed pleased 
with his 27 points and 13 rebounds, but still 
found room to criticize.
"I want ot be shooting from the outside 
better." Cwalina also pleased himself and 
Coach Anderson by staying out of foul 
trouble in both games. Last year Cwalina 
fouled out of 8 of the 17 CMU games he 
played in.
Tartan Tidbits: Coach Anderson showed 
more confidence in his bench, playing eight 
men each night. Freshmen Harvey Beckham 
and Gary Breauninger and sophomore David 
Sikora all saw considerable minutes...After 
shooting 9 of 20 from the charity stripe 
Friday, the Tartans sunk 20 of 25 free 
throws, including their first 11...With bart 
out, senior Roger DeVries steps in as the 
other starting guard, Coach Anderson called 
DeVries's play on Saturday night, real 
tight"...Hart Coleman joined Pete Cwalina 
on the all-tournament team as did LaRoche's 
Barry Tirpak, UPJ's Tyrone Doleman and 
Bob Bauer and Point Park's Anthony 
Wiles...In the consolation game, LaRoche 
edged Point Park 74-73...The Tartans' next 
opponent is Denison College, tonight at 8 
in the Skibo Gym, last year the Tartans beat 
Denison 79-76.
Continued From Page 16
Spiculla was a welcome sight on die court 
as she contained her player throughout The 
Tartans topped their opponents in every 
category, shooting 65% from the foul line, 
hitting 35% of their field goals, and 
recording 12 steals to Frostburg's nine.
Valerie Broadwater tallied a team-high 13 
points for Frostburg's cause while Trina 
Kirsch grabbed five rebounds for a team 
high.
At the sound of the buzzer, the Tartans had 
won the "Big Heart" Tourney, a feat that 
Coach Seidl "didn't expect to accomplish 
this easily." Seidl feels that her young squad 
is "off to a great start. We really played our 
game, there was lots of control, and the 
passing was much improved."
The All-Tourney squad included Carlow 
gaurd Lisa Smith, Case-Weston gaurd Mary 
Jo Domurat, Frostburg forward Valerie 
Broadwater, Frostburg center Trina Kirsch, 
and Carnegie Mellon's own standout gaurd 
Beth Virgin. Lisa Lightner was honored 
after the All-Tourney announcements, as she 
earned the Most Valuable Player trophy.
Seidl was pleased with her team's overall 
performance as well as the tournament 
"Lisa is a coach's dream. She played a great 
game today," said Seidl. The second-year 
head coach was just as pleased with AllTourney pick Virgin as she said, "Beth really 
came alive today. She just seemed to come 
out shooting."
The Tartans will host Penn State-Brehend 
tonight at 6:00 p.m. before breaking for 
Thanksgiving. After break, the squad will 
host Allegheny College Novemeber 29 at 
7:00 p.m., and travel to Gannon and 
Mercyhurst Colleges, December 5 and 6, 
respectively. January 2 and 3 will see the 
Tartans in San Diego, California, as they 
play in a round-robin competition against 
Clark and Rochester Universities.
Members of the 1986-87 squad include co
captains Cheryl Hauser and Val Sooky, 
senior Sonya Miller, junior Jill Minick, 
sophomore starters Lisa Lightner, Beth 
Virgin, Roseanna Neupauer, and Aimee 
Reber. Sophomores Patty Sparrow and 
Alison Guy and freshmen Patricia Chorgo, 
Val Kwiatkowski, and Donna Spicuzza 
round out the team.
Carnegie Mellon's Beth Virgin jumps for an outside shot p
Big man Hart Coleman goes for the stuff.Photo by Andy Gillespie
WomensHoops

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Sweeps Big Heart Tournament
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Stqffwriter 
Last weekend, Carnegie Mellon hosted the 
fourth annual "Big Heart" Basketball 
Tournament. However, the name could have 
been easily changed to the Big Pete Cwalina 
Tournament as the senior forward led the 
Tartans to their second consecutive 
championship with 41 points and 30 
rebounds in the two games, earning him 
Tournament MVP honors. The Tartans 
defeated crosstown rival LaRoche College in 
the opening round 61-56, and then outlasted 
Pitt-Johnstown 67-64 in the final.
The opener started off slowly as the Tartans 
pulled to an early 7-4 lead four minutes into 
the contest Then the Tartans put on a 14-7 
spurt capped by the first of junior guard Hart 
Coleman's (16 pts, 7 rebs, 8 blocks) four 
dunks to sprint to their largest l$ad of the 
night, 10 points.
However, sloppy play by the Tartans 
combined with strong outside shooting by 
the Devils, enabled LaRoche to get back into 
the game. The Devils' Barry Tirpak (20 pts) 
hit two buckets from three point range and 
Brian Johnson sunk a third to pull LaRoche 
back into the game. Johnson's shot with 
just undo* a minute in the half, gave 
LaRoche a 30-28 lead. The lead though was 
short-lived when sixteen seconds later, 
Coleman crashed through with his second 
dunk tied the game at 30-30 to end the half.
At the start of the second half, LaRoche 
pulled ahead again thanks to clutch outside 
shooting and Tartan turnovers to lead 43-38 
with twelve minutes remaining. At that 
point reserve forward Darryl Long provided 
the needed offensive spark to regain the lead 
for the Tartans 46-45. At that point, 
Coleman and Cwalina took over with clutch 
shots down the stretch to end the game at 61- 
56.
The Tartans played well, but were uptight 
during the game. They commited 26 
turnovers and only converted nine of twenty 
free throws. After the game, Head Coach 
Larry Anderson attributed the Tartans' play 
to overanxiousness. However, they showed 
much better shot selection from the field, 
shooting a little better than sixty percent 
from the floor.
The Tartans were forced to play the final 
without senior co-captain David Bart who 
received an injury in his left foot during the 
opener and forced to sit out His partner 
Tom Frankin felt that the loss of Bart did 
not effect the Tartan's game very much. "It 
really didnt change it too much." But the 
loss of Bart took away both a scoring threat 
and some speed.
The final started off similarly to the 
opener. Neither the Tartans nor PittJohnstown was able to scored in the first 
four minutes of play. Finally, with 15:50 
remaining, Coleman hit a jumper to open 
the scoring. Coleman and Daren Moffatt had 
the task of stopping the Mountain Cats' 
freshman center Tyrone Doleman who had 
scored 25 points the night before against 
Point Park. Their double team held 
Doleman to only five first half points.
While Doleman was cold for the Cats, 
Cwalina was red hot for the Tartans. 
Cwalina ran off six straight baskets to help 
push Carnegie Mellon to a 31-27 halftime 
lead. A few minutes into the second half, a 
three point shot by Roger DeVries and 
another bucket by Cwalina pushed the lead 
to 40-30.
However, the Mountain Cats were not 
through. As Coach Anderson put it, 
"Doleman came to play in the second half." 
started getting room inside and
I an Page IS
Photo by Andy Gillespie
Pete Cwalina (left) and Lisa Lighnter (right) recorded weekend totals of 41 and 36 points respectively.
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Stqffwriter
Proving rude hosts this past weekend, the 
Carnegie Mellon Women's Basketball team 
topped all competitors to win the annual 
"Big Heart" Tournament. The hoopsters 
defeated inner-city rival, Carlow College, 
Saturday afternoon, in a close match, 58-53.
went on to crush Frostburg State 
, 01-47 to secure the title.
Saturdays game proved the hoopsters 
tough, defensively, as the close score meant 
a lot of hard work under the net. Sophomore 
standout Lisa Lightner topped all scorers 
with 20 points, while yanking down 10 
rebounds to show her colors defensively, as 
well. Sophomore center Aimee Reber also 
hit the double figures with 10 tallies, while 
senior co-captain Val Sooky garnered 11 
caroms.
Carlow's Lisa Smith led both teams with 
13 rebounds while teammates Kim Lobell 
and Sondra Conway netted 29 of the visitor's 
53 points dropping in 16 and 13, 
respectively.
Reber shown in the defensive end 
throughout the entire game, as she recorded 
five steals, while repeatedly blocking 
Carlows shots. Sophomores Patti Sparrow, 
Roseanna Neupauer, and Lightner went 100 
% from the line, while the squad dropped in 
10-of-15 free throws overall.
Head Coach Gerri Seidl was "pleased" with 
her team's play. "We played our game. 
Defense seemed to be the name of the game 
all weekend."
Going into Sunday's game with a tough 
victory under their belts, the hoopsters were 
looking for another close game, but came 
out ahead through the entire matchup. 
Lightner and Virgin led all scorers with 16 
points apiece, while Neupauer dropped in 
four buckets for her team. Reber shome 
defensively, once again, though she recorded 
only five rebounds. "Aimee played an 
outstanding game," stated Seidl.
Leading 30-21 at the half, the Tartans 
came out smoking, as they tallied several 
key points in the first few minutes. Though 
control of the match was split evenly 
between the two squads, Frostburg couldn't 
seem to hold on to the ball for very long. 
Virgin led the squad in steals as she stopped 
Frostburg's attempts six times. While both 
teams had the opportunities, the Tartans 
cashed in for the basket five more times than 
the visitors, outscoring Frostburg 31-21 in 
the second stanza.
Neupauer took control of the game, 
setting up the plays that allowed Lightner 
and Virgin to hit the net Freshman Donna
Continued on Page 15
X-Country 
Ends Season
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon cross country team 
closed out its season on Saturday with a 
disappointing 18th place finish at the NCAA 
Div. in National Championship in Fredonia 
NY.
The Tartans have been fighting illness all 
season and it finally caught up with them, as 
a stomach ulcer hampered junior Paul 
Camines efforts.
Freshman Dave Supp led Carnegie Mellon, 
fminshing in 54th place overall. Supp was 
followed by other Tartans Len O'Neal, Keith 
Stopen, Pat Noll, Camine, Tim Berger, and, 
Tom Foid.
Scoreboard
Big Heart
Women's Basketball
Big Heart 
Men's Basketball
Carnegie Mellon 
Frostburg State
61
47
Carnegie Mellon 67 
Pitt-Johnstown 64
Carnegie Mellon 
Carlow 53
58
Carnegie Mellon 61 
La Roche 56
Frostburg State 
Case Reserve 65
81
LaRoche 74 
Point Park 73
Carlow 67 
Case Reserve 66
Pitt-Johnstown 82 
Point Park 70Hockey
Carnegie Mellon 
IP 3
9
Tartan
Cwalina. Lightner Named MVP's

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainmei 
Comics 
Classifieds 
Events
Leonard Nimoy talks about Trek IV
By BRUCE KASREL 
Tartan Entertainment Editor
LOS ANGELES: When the very first 
episode of Star Trek was aired on national 
television on September 8, 1966, most 
people took little notice of this sciencefiction adventure series. Comprised of a tal
ented but unknown group of actors, the hourlong series focused on the social issues that 
a 23rd century spaceship might encounter on 
its voyages across the universe. During its 
three years of existence Star Trek atracted a 
small group of devoted fans. Calling 
themselves Trekkies, they began a campaign 
to keep the spirit of Star Trek alive after the 
series was canceled in 1969.
Orginally a group of less than 300, the 
group now numbers in the tens of thousands 
and is one of the main reasons why the show
...coming into the 20th 
century from the 23rd 
century it would be 
outrageous not to make 
some comments about 
what's going on here... I 
think it's interesting and 
provocative.
Leonard Nimoy
still thrives in syndication in over a 170 
markets worldwide. Its phenominal success 
of Trek re-runs has also brought about three 
feature films: Star Trek:The Motion Picture 
(1979), Star Trek II:The Wrath of Kahn 
(1982), and Star Trek III.The Search for 
Spock (1984), which have all been box 
office blockbusters. Paramount Pictures, the 
owners of Star Trek, will add yet another 
chapter to the ongoing mission of the Star
ship Enterprise with the November 26th 
release of Star Trek IV:The Voyage Home.
Even though Trekkies stood in line for 
days to get tickets to see Star Trek.The Mot
ion Picture, it was met with mixed emot
ions. Fans were elated that after ten years 
they were once again going to see their 
favorite space explorers, as the opening to 
the show used to boastboldly go where no 
man has gone before. However, they were 
equally unhappy about the picture because it 
was more of a sophisticated special effects 
extravaganza than the futuristic melodrama 
that characterized the original series. The
movies story focused in cm an unknown 
radio signal directed at earth. As it turns out, 
the probe is actually one of our own 
Voyager Space Probes gone haywire. What 
could have been a interesting commentary on 
our limited understanding of the universe 
turned out to be a boring collection of 
unnecessary special effects. The beloved act
ors just seemed to be along for the ride.
Three years later Paramount Pictures 
released the second instalment of the Star 
Trek movies. This time the storyline was 
based on an original episode that aired in 
1967, Space Seed, Star Trek II:The Wrath 
of Kahn looked as though it might recreate 
the feeling of the series. Even though the 
film featured excellent battle sequences and a 
brilliant performance by Ricardo Montalban, 
who reprised his role as the villianous genetic-superman; Kahn Noonian Singh, the end 
result still feel a bit short. The exciting 
adventure involving control of a device that 
creates life from death, the Genesis Project, 
the film was more like a 23rd century James 
Bond fare than an apendix to the series.
Like the first Star Trek movie, which set a 
box office record for the highest-grossing 
week in history: $17,060,837, Star Trek II 
was a huge finacial success. More import
antly, the films storyline created an event 
that was the first step in bringing back the 
magic of the mid-sixties series - Spock died.
Fans were furious at first. Their favorite 
vulcan was gone forever. Who was going to 
be the rational actor on the Enterprise? 
Who was going to logically solve the per
plexing problems the crew was sure to en
counter if there was a third film? Instead of 
the end of the road, it became a new begin
ning.
Even before Leonard Nimoy put on 
Spock's trademark pointy ears, he had 
amased a great deal of directing credits. Ten 
years before the Trek pilot, he had waked 
with the Atlanta Theatre Guild. While there 
he directed and starred as Stanley Kowalski 
in A Streetcar Named Desire. He even 
made two films, The Balcony and Deathwatch, before he took his most famous role 
as the logical half-Vulcan, half-Human 
Science Officer onboard the Enterprise.
After the final Star Trek episode aired on 
June 3, 1969; Nimoy went on to star in 
Mission: Impossible and narate the popular 
syndicated series In Search of... While work
ing in television and live theater, Nimoy con
tinued to direct whenever he had the chance. 
He directed television shows such as The 
Powers of Matthew Starr, Rod Serlings
continued on page D2
Leonard Nimoy discusses his latest project to the college press
Space... 
Thes 
Sta
final frontier, 
ages of the 
e. Its five 
explore 
to seek 
new 
oldly go 
.'one before.
William Shatner is once again leader of the finest spaceship crew ever
James (Scotty) DoohanGeorge (Sulu) TakeiWalter (Checkov) KoenigNkhelle (li hura) Nichols

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanNovember 25, 1986
To make a moVie underbudget and ahead of 
schedule is a major aeomplishment for a 
large-studio project The comic genius 
Woody Allen, is perhaps the only director/ 
actor/ writer who is consistently under bud
get and ahead of schedule. A comparison be
tween Leonard Nimoy and Woody Allen 
might seem a bit odd, but when one dis
covers that Star Trek IV is really a comedy, 
the comparison might not be that far fetched.
What I set out to do in the picture, 
explains Nimoy was make a film that was 
lighter in tone than the last three... broader 
in scope and appeal, more energetic, and
many Treekies, but the few slips are hardly 
noticeable to the untrained viewer. Instead, it 
focuses on the characters reactions to modernday San Fransisco, the setting where the 
whale hunt takes place.
Not only does the movie emphasize the 
human aspect of Trek, but also it gives the 
supporting cast* Doohan, Takei, Koenig, 
Nichols, much bigger roles than ever be
fore. As a result the film posseses a better 
balance and thus takes some of the pressure 
off Shatner, Nimoy, and Kelly to carry the 
film.
The ususal scenes where these supporting 
crew members are pushing buttons and doing 
their jobs are there, but as soon as the crew 
lands on earth, they each have distinct tasks 
which they must acomplish. Nimoy care
fully constructed each of these subplots to 
suit the actors special talents. They are 
supporting actors and they offered a lot of 
terrific support in this film, Nimoy adds.
In addition to the regular crew members, 
there are a few new faces. One of special 
note is Catherine Hicks who plays the di
rector of the marine biology institiute that is 
home to two humpback whales. Although, 
by her own admission, she has yet to see an 
episode of the show, she felt right at home 
(Mi the set. Leonard was a kind, sensative 
and earring director and one could not help 
but feel comfortable. The rest of the cast was 
really friendly and treated me like I was part of the family... I had a lot of fun doing this 
picture, states Hicks.
ever since the series and so has Bill (Shat
ner). We asked to be allowed to do that in 
the sixties because we are both interested in 
directing (Shatner is slated to direct Star Trek 
V), says Nimoy. The circumstances pre
sented themselves after Spock had died and 
Paramount decided that they wanted to bring 
Spock back. They called me in for a meeting - 
we had no deal up until that time - and they 
asked if I would like to be involved in any 
way with the making of Star Trek III, he re
calls, and I thought that this is it.. I have 
to go for it now or forget it because this is a 
terrific opportunity. And what I said was:
Trying to manage a production of this 
magnitude, can be extremely tireing for a 
director. Combine this with trying to main
tain the delicate balance between comedy and 
social commentary can turn the film into a 
directors nightmare. Somehow, Nimoy was 
always able to keep things in
Harve Bennett has produced and co
authored three Star Trek movies.
perspective. I was trying to (to one simple 
(laughs), I call it simple, very specific thing: 
that is to make a terrific movie that you 
could really enjoy and recommend to your 
friends. It was never my intention to say we 
are really going to send messages out there... 
however, coming into the 20th century from 
the 23rd century it would be outrageous not 
to make some comments about what's going 
continued on page D4
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATRONAGE
PLEASE USE THESE MONEY SAVING COUPONS ON YOUR NEXT 
DELICIOUS ORDER FROM BUBBA'S BREAKAWAY
FREE BAGS 
OF CHIPS
EXPIRES: 12-5-86
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
CUSTOMER PAVS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
I WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
I ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
I SUB
EXPIRES: 12-5-86
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
I WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
I ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
! SUB
FREE 
! TACO
EXPIRES: 12-5-86
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER 
COUPON ON SAME MENU ITEM 
CUSTOMER PAYS APPLICABLE SALES TAX 
LIMITED DELIVERY AREA
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14" BUBBA'S 
SUB
f
CALl US362-6900
258 S HIGHLAND AVk 
SERVING SHADYSIDE & 
SURROUNDING AREA 
OPEN: 11AM TILL 12AM 
FRI-SAT TILL 1AM
minute
Star Trek travels back in time to save the whales
continued from page D1
Night Gallery and TJ. Hooker 
(which starred his Trek colleague William 
Shatner.
With all these credits under his belt, 
Nimoy, although reluctant at first accepted 
Paramounts offer to let him direct the third 
Star Trek movie, titled Star Trek III.The 
Search for Spock.
I have always wanted to direct Star Trek
hesitant when that person is going to write 
the story as well, which Nimoy did. There 
are a variety of reasons for this the central 
one being the issue of additional costs 
arrising due to the extra production time. 
Nimoy finished Star Trek IV.The Voyage 
Home four days ahead of schedule and 
substantially under budget as Nimoy refers 
to the $23 million and change price tag.
don't know exactly what it means or why 
they do it what it represents - that if we fly a 
couple of these 45 ton whales in spaceship 
that sounds like fun.
Even though time travel was the subject of 
numerous Star Trek episodes, City on the 
Edge of Forever which starred Joan Collins 
being the most noteworthy, the movie does 
not try to keep the story scientifically sound 
as it used to do in the series. This may upset
In order to get that kind of fun atmosphere 
that she described, Nimoy took the filming 
out of the soundstage and out into the real 
world. Scenes involving the whales were 
filmed separately, but for the most part every 
scene is either filmed on location or on the 
grounds of Paramount Even the scene where 
the Klingon Ship crashes into the San 
Fransico Bay was done by using the 
Paramount parking lot as a mini ocean.

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 1986The TartanPage D3
Voyage Home is an entertaining change of pace
Leonard Nimoys skillful directing prove Trek III was no fluke
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
In the motion picture industry, movies 
dealing with the possible extinction of a spe
cies have traditionally been presented in a 
documentarty format. Every once in a while, 
though, a mainstream project will adress this 
issue using humor and human interaction as 
means to present the issue to the public. 
Continental Divide, which starred James 
Belushi, was well-received for its mixture of 
light-hearted comedy, cross country romance, 
and nature's diminishing resources. With the 
release of Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home, 
there is once again reason to praise a film for 
it's ability to present such controversial sub
ject matter in a manner that everyone can 
appreciate and enjoy.
The plot in Star Trek IV, like it's pre
decessors, is one of universal magnitude. As 
a result, it is a bit much to swallow in one 
bite. It is not until it unravels piece by 
piece, that one can accept the circumstances. 
The story begins where Star Trek III left off. 
The crew of the destoyed Starship Enterprise 
is leaving the planet Vulcan for earth. Along 
the way, they come across a distress message 
that informs them that a unknown probe is 
extracting all the energy out of earth. Upon 
investigation, Admiral James T. Kirk 
(William Shatner) and the revived Mr. Spock 
(Leonard Nimoy) have discovered that this 
probe is on a mission to find out why it has 
lost contact with one of earth's most 
intelligent life forms - the humpback whale. 
They have long been extinct in the 23rd 
Century and their only hope is to time warp 
back to the 20th Century, and pick up a few 
whales to keep the probe company.
They choose San Fransisco in the year 
1986 as their destination, and once they 
begin their quest the movie shifts from 
science-fiction dilemma to fun filled 
adventure. It this focus on the characters 
rather than the actions that make this film 
one of the most pleasant and enjoyable Star 
Trek projects to date.
The film, directed by Nimoy, does have the 
the special effects that are virtually required 
of every science fiction film, but he also incorperates a lot of humor into the dialogue 
to balance it out. The idea of the ship's main 
crew roaming the streets of San Francisco 
lends itself well to comedy. Nimoy and his 
actor co-workers exploit this facet of the 
movie brilliantly.
Each crew member has a different mission 
to accomplish and each of the specific 
characters involved adds a different touch. 
One particularly amusing sequence is when 
the russian-bom weapons specialist, 
Checkov (Walter Koenig), has the difficult 
task of trying to get a passerby on the street 
to tell him where the nuclear wessels are 
located so he can get a small amount of 
protons for the warp engines. The irritable 
but lovable Dr. McCoy (DeForest Kelly) 
also gets a little comedy activity when he 
gets a chance to poke fun at our primitive 
present-day medical practices. Even Scotty 
(James Doohan) has a little fun when he 
poses as a scientist from Scotland in order to 
obtain some plexiglass for the whale tank. 
This movie, unlike the other three, as well 
as the original series, gives these often 
overlooked crew members, including Sulu 
(George Takei) and Uhura (Nichelle 
Nichols), much bigger roles. Thus the 
picture is more of an ensemble picture than 
ever before.
This much-welcomed addition gives the 
film a sharper edge, but the true esscence of 
Star Trek lies in the interaction between 
Kirk and Spock. With Spock only halfrecovered (his logical and emotionless Vucan 
half), Nimoy has even more room to 
manuever when the two are on screen 
together. Like a young child exploring a new 
world, Spock begins to pick up on the man
nerisms of the times. And in America that 
can be quite humorous. Especially when he 
latches onto a few choice swear words and
inserts them into his conversation with great 
frequencey. Kirk is faced with the difficult 
task of contolling and explaining his 
actions. Not in any of the original epsiodes 
(A Piece of the Action is the only time 
they have even come close) has this 
intergalatic duo been this funny and 
engaging.
Of particular mention are the scenes when 
the two visit a marine biology institute in 
search of a few whales. It is there where they 
meet Dr. Gillian Taylor (Catherine Hicks), 
director of the institute, when Spock decides 
to go for a swim in the whale pool to have a 
little chat. During their tour, they naturally 
make a rather poor impression. The 
obtainment of the whales is then left up to 
Kirk's ability to charm her over to their side 
(his record still remains perfect).
The acting in Star Trek has always been 
somewhat of a Catch-22 type situation. If it 
is taken to seriously it becomes boring, and 
if if it is taken too lightly it turns out too 
silly. In the case of Star Trek TV, however, 
the itellegent script and the experienced cast 
find that elusive happy medium. No one 
particular actor shines the brightest, but 
Nimoy puts in a fresh performance as we 
finally see a lighter side to Spock.
Building on his foundation of the 
interaction among characters, when its time 
for them to put everthing together, Nimoys 
is equally as skillful. The movie is paced 
very comfortably and he brings it to a 
climax smoothly and logically. The climax 
itself is the only area of the film where the 
special effects overpower the events.
If you are looking for the strong social 
comment which has become a trademark of 
the Star Trek genre, there is plenty to satisfy 
your appetite. But the real way to enjoy the 
movie is take it at face value and just be 
ready for a really good time.
Star Trek IV.The Voyage Home opens 
Wednesday nationwide.
DOMINOS PIZZA 
INTRODUCES THE 
*.99 SIX PACK
Receive a Six Pack of Coke for$.99 
With Any 2 Item or More Pizza.
LIMIT 1 SIX PACK PER 2-ITEM OR MORE PIZZA. 
OFFER EXPIRES NOV. 30, 1986 
Not Valid With Any Other Offer 
No Coupon Necessary
681-1707
315 N. Craig Street
521-2970
623 Greenfield AvenueDOMINO'S
DEUVEnr
FREE.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanNovember 25, 1986
George Romero speaks out against colorization
Tartan: Right now you're working on a 
remake of War of the Worlds. Is it faithful 
to the original?
Romero: Not exactly. The original film 
version, by George Powell was probably 
closer to the H.G. Wells text than mine, in 
the sense that there were these cylinders, 
they unscrew, machines come out and it was 
world-wide. What I'm dealing with in the 
newer version is the first cylinder - that's an 
economic measure dictated by Paramount 
They're not prepared to make a $40 million 
movie where the world is obliviated... not 
right off the bat If i'ts successfiill, there'd 
probably be a couple more films. I've been 
hired to write and direct it, but they don't 
necessarily have to make it
Tartan: You write and direct quite
frequently. George Lucas did that with Star 
Wars and it virtually killed him; he hasn't 
directed or writen anything, practically, since 
that time. Do you have a method to your 
success?
Romero: I don't know what George's
problem is. I don't think that's what really 
killed him, actually... I think he's a Sci-Fi 
conservative and maybe he just got too 
caught up in making toy deals! That, to me, 
is probably what wiped him out If the 
process of writing and directing is too much 
for you, you've got to get in another 
business. It's a lot of wear and tear, sure, 
but I'm averaging a film every two years. I 
wish I could do a film every year. I want to 
do more. So, it sounds strange to me when 
I hear these guys saying , "Phew, I can't take 
it..." Well, why are you doing it? It's a 
different game when you're in the 
mainstream. Its not the filmmaking that 
wears you out, it's the other stuff -- it's the 
deal making.
Tartan: You've tried to steer clear of that. 
Romero: Richard Rubenstein took that 
load off me. So, I was in a peculiar position 
where I didn't have to handle too much of the 
business end. He handled the business, I ran 
the creative end. I didn't have to go out and 
make my own deals. It was a good 
relationship. Now, I'm out there making 
my own deals; and it is a bit more wearing, 
but I can't help but feel I'd like to do more 
work. If you consider someone like John 
Ford, you think: he made over 200 movies!
And you say, "What?!" It just cannot be 
done today. Because of that, it's really hard 
to feel secure. It's a very expensive medium, 
You'd go broke if you simply went at it and 
made your own films. I always feel out of 
practice - there's a fear I have of being 
completely and utterly out of practice. It's 
the same situation as if a musician were to 
put down there instrument for two years and 
then pick it up again. It comes back, but 
you always feel rusty.
Tartan: How do feel about the recent 
upsurge of colorization of black& white 
films. The colorized version of Night of the 
Living Dead just recently aired and many of 
yesterdays classics are being released in 
color. Do you have any idea as to why it has 
become so popular?
Romero: I hope that it won't really be so 
popular. I think that it's just a fad now. It is 
a process that is limited to video, it cannot 
be transfered to the big screen and what it 
boils down to is making money on 
cassettes. If you go to any video store the 
guy behind the counter is going to tell you 
that kids dont rent black&white movies 
anymore... There is something wrong with 
them or something. Im not militant about it 
but I do think if they are going to do it they
should consult the filmmakers. The real 
important issue here is the rights issue. Just 
because Ted Turner colorizes 50 films, does 
that mean he owns the new copyright to the 
color versions of those 50 movies. The issue 
is getting lost in the schuffle and I thinks it 
is the important issue. Antother danger is 
that there are many black&white films yet to 
be released and they may just bypass the 
black&white altogether.
Tartan: One last question, you have 
mentioned in the past that directors like 
yourself, can get typecast just like actors. So 
if you could direct any movie what would it
be?
Romero: Beats me. It would be whatever 
the idea I had the day before the offer. It 
really does come down to that. That's the 
other part of the frustration is that you have 
got a lot of ideas and you get them 
whenever. You categorize them right away 
like this would be too expensive, or this is 
too esoteric, or this one not be commerical. 
You pick one that sems possible and try to 
get it packaged to sell. It might not be your 
best idea, but rahter the one you think has 
the best chance of being sold. And you have 
to operate that way because you have to eat 
and pay the bills.
William Shatner slated to direct Star Trek V
continued from page D2
nti here. It had to be done in my opinion. I 
think it's fun to see it in this way, I think 
it's interesting and provocative.
A close personal friend of Nimoy and costar in every Star Trek movie and television 
broadcast, William Shatner is now preparing 
to direct the next Star Trek film. From the
actors standpoint he describes the key to do
ing a Star Trek movie, especially the humor, 
is to, as an actor take the situation very 
seriously, but let the character have a sense 
of humor.
Will there be much of the same type of 
comedy and interaction between the 
characters in Terk V? Shatner does not
know. I cant tell you much about TrekV 
because I don't even know what is going to 
happen... what might be something I like 
might not ever get done. Come on, you can 
give a better answer than that There must be 
some element that you would like to to see 
in your film .Well I can tell you that there 
will be more action and space shoot-outs.
When I was working on TJ. Hooker I had 
the chance to do a lot of running, and chases, 
and beating up people... which I thought 
was kind of fun. I like to bring some of that 
back because it's fun. Later on the 
interview, Shatner revealed that there will 
probably see one of the cast members die,
continued on page D9
The Tartan would like to thank some of the people involved in making this semester's operation the success it was. Their contributions have gone a long way towards making our jobs not only bearable, but also quite enjoyable.
Vice-President Patrick Crecine and Dr. Thomas Neudecker
for their help in planning and implementing a desk-top publishing 
system in our office.
President Richard M. Cyert for paying the Editorial board.
Lee Miller and the Center for Art & Technology's Linotronic-300 
typesetting facility, even if it was at 4:30 am twice too often.
Dean Lois Cox for her help with the budget and allowing our 
investments in the office.
Mark Busch and his now dead drill for a good days work.
and of course, The Powells
The Tartan will reappear on January 13, 1987. Until then, have two nice breaks and good luck on finals.

---------------------------------------------------

mM
November 25, 1986The TartanPage D5
Whats up at Forbes: Nothing except blank walls and space
By CHRISTOPHER GRAY
Special to the Tartan
This week's show at Forbes Gallery 
features the work of nobody. That's right. 
No show at Forbes this week. No abstract 
painting. No figurative painting. No mistaking the blank white walls for a minimalist installation show. No art 
historical references used to justify the 
feeling that one has "seen this movie 
before." No surface qualities. No nothing.
No profound formal statements (that's 
supposed to be a joke: don't you get it, 
"profound formalism"). No angst ridden 
figures twisting their knotted anatomy 
through the existential history of mankinds 
meaninglessness. Certainly nothing the 
Whitney would ever choose to show in one 
of its "biennials". Nope, there won't even 
be any honest attempts to make something 
beautiful. Not a scrap.
And no, there won't be an opening this 
week either. No beer drinking strolls by 
someone's ceramics. No discussions of the 
latest Benetton fashions. No political 
opinions. No religious opinions. No dipping 
celery, carrots and/or broccoli in whatever 
the artists have concocted for a dip.
No arguments about "is there such a thing 
as universal quality?" No social interaction 
in a cultural atmosphere. No smell of hair 
spray and styling mousse wafting through 
the air. No hair period. No, not even 
sincerely interested creative people meeting 
to share ideas with the artists.
But wait! Why always look at the negative 
aspects of things?
Lo and behold , next week there IS a show!
And what a show it will be. Yes, the one 
and only "FORBES GALLERY 1986 
JURIED SHOW AND HOLIDAY 
COTILLION". John Caldwell, curator of 
contemporary art at The Carnegie Institute, 
will be Forbes Gallery's special guest juror, 
and will select work for the show from a 
veritable stockpile of student entries. The
show, consequentially should feature the best 
art CMU has to offer. If you've been shy 
about visiting Forbes Gallery so far this 
semester, this indeed is the time to come out 
of your shell and see some splendiferous art.
Remember folks: No show will run from 
Tuesday November 24 through Sunday
November 30, and the "FORBES 
GALLERY 1986 JURIED SHOW AND 
HOLIDAY COTILLION" will open on the 
following Tuesday (7-9) and run through the 
following Sunday.
All are invited to attend the latter (but are 
requested to check their "bah-humbugs" at 
the door).
Mehdelssohn Choir Season Line-up
PITTSBURGHThe Mehdelssohn Choir 
of Pittsburgh, under the direction of Robert 
Page, has announced its 1986-87 concert 
series: performances that celebrate the 
holidays, spotlight Pittsburgh's international 
heritage and present the rarely-heard original 
version of Arthur Honegger's "King David."
"A Joyous Sound"  November 29, 1986 
The Mendelssohn joins with the Children's 
Festival Chorus on Saturday, November 29, 
1986 at 1:30 p.m. and 4:00 p.m. for their 
fourth annual presentation of holiday music. 
The program benefits St. Peter's Child 
Development Center. A reception, sponsored 
by Mellon Bank for the audiences of both 
concerts, will take place in Carnegie Music 
Hall's marble foyer between the 
performances.
"The Sound of Pittsburgh's Heritage"  
February 15, 1987
The second concert of the series, on 
Sunday, February 15, 1987 at 8:00 p.m., 
combines the talents of The Mendelssohn 
with the Duquesne University Tamburitzans. 
The concert will also feature the debut of the 
Junior Mendelssohn, a group of 50 of the 
finest voices from the area's public, private, 
and parochial high schools.
The concert will open with Toch's 
delightful "Geographical Fugue Speaking 
Chorus," performed by The Mendelssohn and 
the Junior Mendelssohn. The Mendelssohn 
and the Tamburitzans will combine to 
perform several Eastern European and 
American selections of music and dance.
In addition, the Junior Mendlessohn will 
sing Scottish, English and American ballads 
and chanties, and The Mendelssohn will 
perform Hispanic, German and Viennese 
music featuring the original choral version 
of Johann Strauss' "Tales from the Vienna 
Woods."
"A Noble Sound - Honegger's 'King David"
 March 29, 1987
The final concert of the season wil feature 
Arthur Honegger's dramatic "King David," 
the thrilling story of the young shepherd 
who became the ruler of one of the world's 
greatest empires. Franz Schubert's "Miriam's 
Song of Triumph," a song of victory and 
joyous freedom chronicling the escape of the 
Israelites form Egypt, will also be presented 
in this final concert, which begins at 8:00 
p.m. on Sunday, March 29, 1987.
All concerts will be performed in Carnegie 
Music Hall in Oakland and wheel-chair 
accessible seating is available.
Tickets may be purchased individually for 
the three concerts, but subscribers to the 
entire series receive a 15% discount on the 
February and March performances. The pre
holiday "Joyous Sound" tickets benefitting 
St. Peter's Child Development Centers are 
tax decuctible, but not discounted.
Subscription series tickets are priced from 
$16.20 to $34.95 and individual concert 
tickets are $6.00 to $13.50 each.
Subscription series tickets or individual 
concert tickets can be purchased by calling: 
(412) 781-9434 (9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.) or 
(412) 561-3353 (after 6:00 p.m.)
In addition to the subscription series, The 
Mendelssohn will make its debut at Lincoln 
Center in New York City on November 23, 
1986 in a performance of Berloiz's
"Damnation of Faust" with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony under the direction of Charles 
Dutoit
The Mendelssohn, "Pittsburgh's 
Professional Sound, " includes 150
accomplished singers, both men and women, 
with a 24-voice professional core. Its 
director, Robert Page, is one of the country's 
premier choral directors. Together they are 
The Mendelssohn Sound, the thrilling sound 
of the human voice at its collective best.
ronic Typographic Facility
Open to the Entire Campus Community
A variety of fonts 
and typefaces
TIMES 
HELVETICA 
BODONI 
NEW CENTURY 
SCHOOLBOOK 
GOUDY 
GARAMOND 
Regency Script 
Calligraphy 
BASKERVILLE 
PFMBOA 
and more
A variety of graphics 
and special effects
Compatible with 
most Software
MacWrite
Microsoft Word
PageMaker
Scribe
TEX
and
many more
If you want your documents to look better, 
then call Lee Miller at x3783 
to find out how to make them look their best.

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BLOOM COUNTY Provktod by SPC by Berke Breathed BLOOM COUNTY Provided by SPC by Berke Breathe
COHGtm. Tartn rartnAs youiL ee oh. unOUR SO HAPPY,riNeetiw >iE
BREAK THC BAP
dtof hc hTt ahTtiHOPEFULS.WHERE'S REMCMNG
irftuNrr HIS,\_ SPANPEK.m&.
mrsI SMELL JUST MY
lWhWfhiarTt uitWhTwUPON WE y
PtaitWrbNg faNdr oWf co/m,FROM THE 90ARPM, HOUSE. ROSEBUP SUSPECTEP THE AREA W BE UNPER ATTACK BY HOTTEMIOfS.. WHICH BASSELOPES ARE WONT W THINK
m no, ir ef srms NewHOCK ROUP, FRESH FROM LAST ween WNr.h.adw LoRP.vmm ROS6BUP.ANP THeR, BUTFOR-meMce ab>arA Sa //
K05EBUP RETRbfllEP /up m REST OF we MY "KPte UNPER A WfUOW. &AmLITERATURE OF SOME NOTE we TWO TURNIPS STUCK IN HIS BARS mm,nee OFLILOTFBVT ONLY BARELY.
beNTumt.'THe b.ifh itlairs m session Epdtvh week.LEARN we SONMANP UNLESS
TWf W eerreR ipeA,well CALL OURSELVES "PEATHToNWE''.
rveoorA NAME/
JLL
YEAH7 AREAL HEAP&MtNb,KTCK-BUTT NAME? YOU BET/> KKX-pmrA HERE TT15:
w
osnomAYEAH/
UH.."PEATHTdNOUE * ms, then- what? / MATT ' IT'S BEEN PONE?
gagW E ive aurrfRiJOBATm WHAT KINP PICAYUNE ! IWI bOtN TO PLAY TUBA FOR A NEW BANP//
OH. AN EXCITING LEMME ONE/STEVE ANP SEE IF INE THEFeLLAS OOTTHtSWANT TO CALL STKAI6HT-.IT 'PEATHWMUE' I
1=^
IU Be MARRANO A CHORP- CRUNCHIN,OROUF/E- bROPlNG,HeAP-BANANO,HEfWY-METAL MUSH-BRAIN !
1 AM TINhUNOWELL- WITH eXCTTEMENT. ESSENTIALLY /YES. ' 'BUT
YOU HAVE A BETTER 7TLE INMINP?
BECAUSEwere T.enA SFffT/ REALLY/ THIS H ALL TERRIBLY NEW 10 ME.. WHAT POES A SPAT ENTAIL ?
YOUR LEAMNb UNTTi IPECIPE10 LET YOU COME BACK ANP BE6MY FORMENESS.
SOUNPS IFFY. CAN I HAVE MY ROY ORB!SON' TAPES BACK*
mem ha mdao ms sono u-MOHPRf . HOW CAN I PUT MY HEART W10 A SENSTTM MIOPIE STATEMENT WHBN THAT
ctih Hem ts m hcieag wrw LOLA* l-l MUST TRY. yFOR THE \ SAKE OF
WELCOME TO OUR BASEMENT RECORPING STVPtO, FELLOW *PEATHToNeUE  MEMBERS. TOPFtY, WEMAKE SOME P0U6H.
y
AS \W KNOW, IVE WRITTEN THE WORST HARP-CORE, METAL-CRUNCH MUSIC KNOWN IN THE FREE WORLP... ANPWE'LL AH... A QUESTION FROM BILL?
attention/ime 
Tar Be tnF olwl-u pnwers wm JVLK)
iocem m ftff.ad

---------------------------------------------------

by Nadini Sudd, Ltd
ONJE DA<^ ONJ TWe CUT, 
STUDENTS AUJAK& To flhJO 
A SHANry ON CAMpuSWOW, DCKf 
ft? n TaCC
by Kurt Shaw
BOTHA 
1 HALL
by Jim Voorhees
Mf*T wm : VENCEAWCE II TIME I
by Ed Baranoski
" rtfS&x Bernr tv**/ 
7V/S \ I OS*AND AtJ 
EXPLAMttlOKl f
kT.f /5 AfK ?/
7Vis IS A TV TRAY AMD 
A BOX OP- CoPlEQ. PAPER.I
4iJ?WT\ OMO Stole* My 
EhPty 6ox ?
EhP*J co/lo it PossiblySe uoAseJdPPage
by Translucia Baboon & Klutz KaboomCMUtants
ib MSW TIMMY, WE JVWfcGCSc WMJ- fit COUUOC, TO YOU &****>*&< AT A7ERMM3WT H/TTtttE OT Q3.MKT //up TMf C.h*JVMJTT'(t__________4JTR HAM l$ 
r/PO HAUDHV.Y C0NSOH&) 'THE wuit Mown, 
TlHHf IS HtBnO into cmutjwtt,ACOSiuMt 
A*JD THt Co0tHM%,SP^WfUEX-THtjqd* 
jl/57 yah cXdShlttb
BY A
vttJ 6/tJCj 
70 HELP H/A?
THOUGH MTT tHWULEO **l7MTMt UAWfc.T/MWr MHJ HAS TOUO A N0 fURMEt WffH W8 cnmra. HR WIU- t<c*ht H* WTH.TOOKOF couUJfc THBPf /S' A t/T X ftoT&T TO mtS PCO**Al,. MuurmK, *>rr cnunwir, ****- ruiL,wccArr. erp_________________,W CAuz 702)0. 
VA af&L.S
by Kneep DebendsA Look Within
m th* SKjJit K B..| 
Yutotmm** ^reb ths(rosh/ 77se pieces of 
oxmor *ure 
CXftAVt !
fcV-taiWBjJ
Sir /TierZ^i o^ Sio/e
Vcrju ?Jr J*ACS P
Honor tit/
li) grfjiwe. A^eAronisfs.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8The TartanNovember 25,1986
Joe Bobloves the latest from Wes Craven
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic 
Last week at the Joe Bob Briggs Texas/OU 
Weekend Blowout Party and premiere of the 
Dancing Bovina Sisters, the world's only 1- 
ton chorus line, I read off all the dirty parts 
of the Meese Report to the audience. Most 
of em didn't believe it, how the President 
Commission on Obscenity, Pornography 
and Nasty Bedroom Equipment could have so 
much great writing in it.
A whole lot of it I still can't say in the 
newspaper, but I wanted everybody to know 
that we figured out what it was that bothered 
Ed Meese the most: the misuse of
whangdoodles. Listen to the following 
facts:
1. There are more than 1,200 references to 
whangdoodles in this report, which only 
lasts 1,960 pages.
2. Members of the Meese Commission 
traveled to one of my favorite stores, Mr. 
Peepers in Houston, to personally view 
whangdoodles on three separate occasions.
3. The Meese commission collected over 
100 magazines, including seven copies of 
Floppers and Whoppers, to prove that 
whangdoodles are being improperly 
manipulated by portions of ther general 
public.
4. It's not in the report, but Ed Meese 
himself is known to have asked privately for 
the complete elimination of whangdoodles, 
or at least have a whangdoodle moratorium.
5. I quote from page 1,446 of the report: "It 
is clear to this Commission that most 
Americans are riot mature enough to use 
whangdoodles in a responsible manner. We 
would recommend some form of 
whangdoodles licensing process as one 
solution."
6. Many people are still under the 
impression that they are protected from 
government intrusion by the 1903 Supreme 
Court ruling, Beavers vs. Saginaw County,
S.D., which stated that "whangdoodles are 
regarded as private property subject to any 
use the owner might desire, except when 
they are located on a railroad right-of-way." 
And, or course, we can remember how many 
whangdoodles were lost to the greedy 
railroads right after the war.
7. In fact, the Beavers ruling does not apply 
to certain whangdoodles, epecially when they 
are used for lawn and garden care.
8. Several members of the commission 
confided to reporters that Mr. Meese does not 
himself own a whangdoodle and forbids his 
wife to purchase one.
Outdoors this week we got "Deadly Friend, 
" Wes Craven's first drive-in flick since "A 
Nightmare on Elm Street, " and I'm glad to 
say that Wes hasn't let all the piles of green 
stuff go to his head. This one's every bit as 
disgusting as "Elm Street," but not quite as 
scary. It's basically a "Breakfast Club" 
version of "Bride of Frankenstein," with this 
kid who comes to town haulin an artificialbrain robot named Bee Bee. When the girl 
next door gets bashed down the stairs by her 
slimehead father, the kid sticks the robot 
brain in the girl, steals her body, and tries to 
get his new girlfriend-monster to stop 
killing all the neighbors and grabbin biker 
gangs between the legs.
No breasts. Six bodies. Seven gallons 
blood, some spurting, with three bloody 
noses. Exploding head. Head disguised as a 
basketball. Vase plunging. Exploding 
robot. Mother drugging. Shovel hurling. 
Body scalding. Neck breaking. Father
Kristy Swanson just before she gets revenge on here slimehead father
charbroiling. Gratuitous brain surgery. 
Incest Fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nominations for Matthew Laborteaux, as 
Paul the genius, who likes to tinker around 
with brain surgery in his garage; Kristy 
Swanson, as Sam the dead girlfriend, for 
excellent spook robotics; and Wes, for 
delivering. Three and a half stars.
Video of the Week: "Truck Stop Women" 
(1974): One of the goofiest Mafia movies 
ever made, starring Claudia Jennings, the 
only Playmate-of-the-Year who could ever 
act and the woman who would of been the 
greatest drive-in actress in history if she 
hadn't been killed in a car accident. Soap 
opera star Lieux Dressier runs Anna's Truck 
Stop in New Mexico, which is a front for a 
whorehouse, truck-theft operation and stolengoods fencing outfit, but the Eastern mob 
finds out that her daughter Rose (Claudia 
Jennings) is jealous of Mama and will do 
anything to get control of the business for 
herself. Rotten to the core, Claudia is a 
spoiled country girl who thinks of herself as 
royalty. "Jackie Onassis wouldn't eat a 
chicken-fried steak!" she screams, slammin 
her dinner plate on the counter. So she 
offers up her body to whatever sleazeballs 
might help her get what whe wants. Filmed 
at the height of the CB craze, it features a 
couple of decent truck chases and eight or 
nine Bobby Hart country-western songs, 
includin "I'm a Truck" ("There'd be no truck 
drivers if it wasn't for us trucks") and "Big 
Bull Shippers." Exceptional breast count for 
this kind of movie: 23. Four stars.

---------------------------------------------------

November 25, 1986The TartanPage D9
THISTLE
1986
Star Trek TV:The Voyage Home - The Inside Scoop
continue from page D4
this time for real. It's tough to create a 
sense of jeopardy when you have the 
ability to travel back in time to alter to 
course of history. It's tough to get any 
real idea of danger and thats a major 
problem we are trying to correct Peoples 
lives (in TrekV) are going to have to put 
in danger and it looks like someone is 
going to have to die.
And what does Shatner think will be 
his greatest challenge as a director? 
Probably the fact that I will have to look 
at myself-1 hate to look at myself - and I 
guess I'll be seing a lot of myself in the 
next picture, Shatner responded.
Somehow I think he will conquer his 
fear, because as he said the oppotunity to 
spend 23 million dollars doesn't happen 
everyday.
Star Trek Trivia?
1) Who was the first captain of the 
Enterprise and name the actor who played him.
2) What famous historical figure 
does William Shatner model James 
T.Kiik after?
3) What does NCC stand for?
Vote now for the dumbest commercial on T.V.
read any similar ones in Rolling Stone 
again. Sincerely, DONNA M. VALLO, 
NORTH TARRYTOWN, N Y.
DEAR BIMBO: I enjoyed your letter until 
I got to the sentence about my brain. Then I 
paused to think HOW OFFENSIVE I find it 
when a person who don't even know the 
difference between bimbos and REAL 
WOMEN starts talking about MY brain.
Another letter that didn't make it in 
Rolling StoneDEAR ROLLING STONE: I understand 
RS's side of writing about the Texas 
Chainsaw movies because its a popular 
phenomenon lately. OK, fine. I'd just like 
to say that the people who make these kinds 
of movies don't have an understanding of 
right and wrong and don't care. Also, there's 
a sort of lackadaisical tolerance of this kind 
of thing nowadays that makes me sick. 
Finally, the people who go to these movies 
are a bunch of sub-humans.
So all you people, stand up for what's 
right, don't tolerate this . When your 
friends want to go , tell them no, its sick. 
When they say whats a matter, chicken? no 
sense of humor? tell the directors, writers,
and producers to shove it up their------, cause
were a respectable company of clean-cut 
people who want to produce quality material 
to uplift the hard working masses. Thank 
you, JOHN SIMONS, LONG BEACH 
CALIF.
DEAR HUMAN: You're either right or 
wrong.
DEAR JOE BOB: Before we can discuss 
the meaning of life, there is a deeper, more 
fundamental question that must be answered: 
What's the dumbest commercial on TV? 
Here are some contenders for the title.
1. The dancing spark plugs.
2. John Houseman explains that hard work 
is old-fashioned.
3. Diet Pepsi mates with MTV and gives 
birth to a monster.
4. Victoria Principal tells us how great her 
hair looks.
5. IBM and the petals from heaven.
6. True Value Hardware presents "Uncle 
Bob."
7. Robert Duvall explains credit card 
existentialism.
8. In order to prove a point, 500 real estate 
salespersons lift a house off its foundation. 
The point, unfortunately, seems to be rather 
obscure.
9. Cliff Robertson gets real sincere for Ma 
Bell.
10. The convenience store quasi-modem 
musical revue.
11. Kirk Douglas walks through a solemn, 
lonely place and utters a profound cliche.
12. The actor with simulated asthma.
It's a tough, tough choice. There's so 
much competition and so little room at the 
bottom. What do you think?-BOOB TUBE 
BOB, DALLAS
DEAR BOB: I hope you win your battle 
with the Slimes Herald, so you can keep 
your name.
But if you should lose, just remeber: a Joe 
Bob by any other name would smell just as 
bad. -ONE OF YOUR FANS, DALLAS 
DEAR ONE OF: The judge told the 
Slimes Herald they couldnt steal my name, 
and so right after that the high sheriffs 
stopped hasslin my books in one of the great 
victories over Communism since they took 
Prague in 1968. Now the wimps at Dell 
Books are FORCED to publish.
I'm still thinkin of changin my name to 
Phil Donahue.
Less than 100 left!
The 1986 Thistles are here and 
they're selling fast! Hundreds 
of satisfied customers:
Bv JOE BRIGGS
0riVe-In Movie Critic
Communist Alert! The 82nd Street Drivein Portland got bought by a "commercial 
jeveloper" from Seattle after 38 years of 
ontinuous drive-in bliss, and all the guy 
aid for it was a lousy $2 million. To 
Jiscuss the meaning of life with Joe Bob, or
0 get some of this free junk that's still pilin 
all over the trailer house ever since Joe 
30b became a famous video reviewer, write 
[oe Bob Briggs, P.O. Box 33 , Dallas, 
fexas 75221.
Letter that didn't make it in Rolling Stone
TO THE EDITOR: I enjoyed reading Joe 
Bob Briggs' article, "Working on the Chain 
Gang" until I got to the paragraph which 
begins, "The other bimbo in the scene with 
me is named Victoria Powells..." When a 
few paragraphs further down the page I read, 
..the movie theater you're about to come 
lout of with these two bimbos, " I stopped 
for a moment to consider HOW 
iOFFENSIVE I found these two short 
lassages. ( I won't even mention any other 
ipassages that put women down, this is 
loffensive enough.)
Although this article was written about a 
movie and doesn't deal with sexism, I resent 
reading about women being referred to as 
"bimbos." One man mentioned in the article 
tries to "keep his matted blonde hair from 
breeding"; while another explains why, 
according to his agents, he is "throwing his 
career away on this movie." Yet it is the 
women who are described as "bimbos." 
Maybe Mr. Briggs had his brain rattled by 
all those chain saws. In any event, I just 
wanted to point out this slur and hope I dont
"I was 180 lbs over weight until I read the 
1986 Thistle." --Woody Allen
"I laughed! I cried! I had chills run up and 
down my spine!"  Judge Wapner
"My mother loved it, my dog loved it, and so 
did all the chaps down at the pool hall. Don't 
pass this up!" - Boy George
Pick up or buy yours this week 
in Skibo Grey Matter or stop by 
the Thistle Office 46A Skibo
Senior Portraits are still being 
accepted for the 1987 Thistle. 
Call the Thistle office x2121 for 
details.
Funded by your Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanNovember 25,1986
PMS Premieres
By MARNI HALASA
Special to the Tartan 
Th genesis of local experimentalism 
has begun. Innovative industrialists 
PMS are a band of many musical and 
lyrical talents. Their performance at 
the Forbes Gallery November 22 en
lightened a receptive audience with an 
array of avant-garde musical rhythms 
and unconventional lyrics.
PMS (an acronym for Pittsburgh 
Music Society, Pre-Menstrual Syn
drome, Pure Masculinity System, and 
others) is a one-woman, two-man band 
that concentrates on experimental tech
nique and improvisation to acquire a 
particular undefinable sound. Lead sing
er Lynne Barrett has an interesting 
octave range and uses her voice to illus
trate a variety of talents, from fluttery 
butterfly shrieks to mythological Siren 
wails. Keyboardist Jason Gibbs makes 
use of several synthesizers and pre
recorded tapes to express many differ
ent sounds consisting of distorted 
voices, candy-apple chimes, and staccatoed techno-beats. Guitarist Bob 
Gregory's simple yet vital guitar 
strains add the almost ironic element 
of 60's guitar next to the modem, nonstructured synth and vocals.
They started off with "Disagree 
Agree," a song parodying women as 
weak, indecisive beings in dire need of 
men to make decisions for them. The 
"PMS Theme Song" is a funky, fast 
talking rap about a woman during her 
period: "So what if I'm a bitch/ I'm 
bloated/ My back hurts/ I think I'm 
entitled dammit/ What have you ever 
done/ huh!?". "Blue Whale" was by far 
the most provocative with haunting 
middle-eastern arpeggios, dyslexic vo
cals, and non-harmonic guitar riffs.
PMS appropriates elements from 
their cultural environment and recom
bines them in a way that creates new 
meaning. Most of the lyrical issues 
play with gender and parental roles, 
institutional functions and sexual 
orientations. What makes these songs 
funny are simple satire and in par
ticular, the juxtaposition of several 
totally unrelated ideas that create a 
particular imagery. Musically they are 
triangular surrealists, each with their 
own individual talents and qualities.
Air Bandcompetition won by Peter Gabriel
news with their first interview on the BBC 
rock music program, Saturday Rock.
From that time onward, Joy Division had 
no problems in the music world. They 
appeared on Grenada TV with several new 
songs and subsequently played London for 
the first time at the Hope and Anchor Pub in 
Islington. Their next EP, Factory Sample, 
gave critics something to really applaud. 
They declared Joy Division the missing 
link between Elvis and the Banshees.
A mere two years after their formation, 
they produced thier first album, Unknown 
Pleasures, and opened for the Buzzcocks on a 
U.K. tour. The next year, after several 
more new songs, they toured Europe, 
playing Paris, Amsterdam, Brussels, Berlin, 
and elsewhere.
Tragedy struck the group the eve of their 
first tour of America in May of 1980, when 
Ian Curtis, lead vocalist was found dead in 
his Manchester home. It was suicide.
Releasing "Love will Tear Us Apart" in 
June 1980, they earned instant critical ac
claim. They reached the Top 20 in U.K. 
charts and released the last Joy Division al
bum. The three remaining members decided 
to continue with a new sound under the 
name of New Order. They recruited Gillian 
Gilbert as a keyboardist and second guitar, 
and played throughout the U.K. With 
several more TV specials, and several spots 
on John Peels show, New Order again 
recieved unanimous praise in the European 
music community.
Making it big in America with the album 
Power, Corruption, and Lies, New Order hit 
the charts big. This premier in America 
secured New Order's stand in the New Wave 
world. The single "Blue Monday" topped 
dance and alternative music charts worldwide. 
Their next album Low Life, with it's single, 
"Perfect Kiss" made made the top five in 
American dance charts.
Their really big opening came when three 
of their songs, including the hit "Shell 
Shock" were featured in the John Hughes 
film, Pretty in Pink. The soundtrack of this 
album went platinum.
In October, New Order began their 
Brotherhood tour (their latest album released 
this September). They will be playing the 
Syria Mosque with The Lucy Show on 
December 2 at 7:30pm. Tickets are $13.75 
and are available at the Mosque Box Office, 
National Record Mart and Oasis Music and 
Video Stores. Call 621-3333 to charge for 
tickets.
By LAURA LIND
Tartan Music Critic
The Bangles, The Doors, Aretha Franklin, 
David Lee Roth, and Van Halen were among 
the bands which dazzled the audience in 
Skibo's ballroom on November 22. Well, 
sort of. Actually, CMU students imitated 
these bands and others at CMU's Fifth 
Annual Air Band Competition.
The Air Band Competition is much like 
the television show, Puttin' on the Hits. 
Groups get together and try to lip-sync and 
instrument-sync to a song of their choosing. 
However, instruments do not have to be 
conventional ones. For instance, Aretha 
Franklins band used an ironing board for a 
keyboard while singing "Respect"; Tommy 
Tutone's band, who took second place, used 
a desk lamp for a saxophone to play 
"Tequilla." Other "instruments," such as 
umbrellas and spatulas, also sounded great.
Some of the groups resembled their 
respective bands. An impressive example of 
this was USA For Africa. Every person was 
represented, and many of them, especially 
Kenny Rogers and Bruce Springsteen, really 
looked the part. This act definitely received 
the greatest response from the audience. 
Despite this big response, USA For Africa
did not win first place. They did take third, 
however, a commendable feat in this 
competition where one band was as 
imaginative as the next.
The first place prize of $200 went to Peter 
Gabriel and his band, who performed "Shock 
the Monkey." Using a cardboard wrench for 
a microphone and two cardboard monkeys for 
guitars, this band interacted well with each 
other and achieved a good deal of popularity 
with the audience; they even did an encore 
performance of their song.
To top off the excitement, Alex Cole, a 
comedian who has opened for such acts as 
the Talking Heads and Jermaine Jackson, 
emcee'd the competition. Cole was 
extremely lively and funny, often 
abandoning the stage to interact with the 
audience. He did routines throughout the 
competition which thoroughly entertained 
the audience.
The Air Band Competition was fun, not 
only because students could see their friends 
and have a good laugh, but because, as Cole 
said, everyone has played a rock star in a 
mirror. Probably everyone could relate to 
the lip and instrument-syncing, which made 
the Air Band Competition an exciting and 
entertaining event
New Order to make first Pittsburgh
By ALBRECHT POWELL
Tartan Production Manager 
New Order (formerly Joy Division), one of 
New Wave's hottest groups, will bring their 
American tour to Pittsburgh on December 2 
at the Syria Mosque. Known for their hits 
on Pretty in Pink, including Shell Shock, 
New Order has made a big name for them
selves in their relatively short 10 year hist
ory.
Originated in Manchester England in
April of 1977 under the name of Warsaw. 
Its original members, vocalist Ian Curtis, 
bassist Peter Hook, and guitarist Bernard 
Albrecht (aka Barney Rubble) started with 
their first gig at Manchester's Electric 
Circus. Soon thereafter, they recruited a new 
drummer, school chum Stephen Morris.
Three months after their formation, they 
recorded thier first 7" EP, An Ideal For 
Living. After changing thier name to Joy 
Division a year later, they made big music
Dan Weir Shocks the Monkey in the Fifth Annual Airband Competition
appearance
March 21-28. 1Q87
", Idtt&Ott
fl mIncludes:
Air Fare
Hotel
Cont. Breakfast 
Transfers 
Theatre Tickets 
and More...
jleserve your piace 
witfi Peoples Travel
Call prances at 
261-6901 
or 621-0799
J

---------------------------------------------------

November 25,1986The TartanPage Dll
Dutoit gives brilliant read of Berliozs Faust
B, SUZANNE SCHELKOPF
Tartan Symphony CriticOn Friday, November 21, 1986 at 8:30 
pm., the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
Presented La Damnation de Faust by Hector 
gerlioz in its ninth set of subscription 
concerts. Charles Dutoit conducted, and the 
Mendelssohn Choir, directed by Robert 
Page, joined the Orchestra for this 
monumental work. Soloists for the 
performance were: Katherine Ciensinski, 
mezzo-soprano; Jerry Hadley, tenor; Dimitri 
Kavrakos, bass; and David Orcutt, baritone. 
The work is scored for solo vocal quartet, mixed chorus, and an extended orchestra. The 
two hour work revealed much compositional 
craftsmanship through a deliverance of 
precision and emotion.In appreciating this piece, an understanding 
of the foundation of the work is needed. 
Specifically, it is based on a legend surrounding a scholar, Dr. Johannes Faustus. 
He studied many disciplines, and taught at 
the German universities of Wittenberg, 
Erfurt, and Ingolstadt. It is also believed that 
he studied magic, saw ghosts and demons, and even tried to fly. This belief lead to the 
legend which endowed him with supernatural powers. The two-part tragedy Faust, by 
Johann Wolfgang Goethe, is recognized by 
the Germans as the national drama. This 
drama led Berlioz to write Eight Scenes 
from Faust , which was revised to become 
La Damnation de Faust.
The work is separated into four parts, each 
containing a story about Faust set in a 
particular geographic location. Part I 
encompasses the plans of Hungary, North 
Germany, to Leipzig, and to the banks of the 
Elbe River. The work opens with soft, 
melodic lines in the strings which soon adds 
the winds and lower strings to form the 
foundation for the tenor soloist. Jerry 
Hadley, the tenor vocalist,
Faust, captured the mood of the scene and 
expressed it sensitively through his dark, 
colorful tone. The Peasant's Dance shifts 
the mood to a lighter, wittier nature. This is 
signified through short thematic passages is 
the woodwinds. The fanfare of the Hungarian 
March leads us into the third scene. Snare 
drum rolls to fortissimo and the syncopated, 
majestic choral clarity enhances the military 
theme of the scene.
S/ymfi/urny, Olcea,
In Part II, the music depicts the conflict 
Faust has in his study. He is on the verge of 
taking poison, and bids farewell to his life. 
This scene opens with the cellos announcing 
the theme in pianissamo. The chorus 
interrupts his menlancholy disposition and 
reminds him of his childhood. Aside from 
the tenor section in the choir, which, 
throughout the entire work, failed to blend 
and proved extremely distracting, the bass, 
soprano, and alto sections depicted this 
thought. The tenor is joined by the bass 
soloist depicting the duet in which the Devil 
promises Faust everything that his heart 
desires. Charles Dutoit adapts his conducting 
to the various scenes. His casual cues signal 
the allowance to join. However, by no fault 
of his own, the choir entered very shakily, 
causing the smoothness to be interrupted. 
With a definite cue to the woodwinds, their 
entrances were executed superbly, and the 
flaw was covered. The baritone soloist, 
conveying the characteristics of Brander, did 
not project as did Hadley. Hence, when the 
chorus joins him in the Amen chant, he is 
overpowered, and we only sense through the 
movements of his lips that he is singing.
The woodwind passages, specifically of the 
flute, bassoon, English horn, and clarinet 
displayed the accomplish techniques and 
expressive quality Berlioz desired, and would 
have been pleased to hear performed so 
flawlessly.
Unfortunately, with the deliverance of Part
III, after intermission, it comes apparent that 
it is the cold and flu season. The audience 
marred the fine tuned echoings of the off 
stage braces with their own articulations on 
symptoms of their latest ailment. This, 
however, did not distract the artists from 
performing with much sensitivity and 
acuteness. We see Katherine Ciesinski for 
the first time. She portrayed Marguerite, 
who Faust loves. The flute solos, played by 
Bernard Goldberg, create a dialogue between 
Marguerite and the flute. This is carried 
through to the viola, played by Randolph 
Kelly, with much purity and expression.
The English horn, played by Harlod 
Smoliar, opens the Finale division of the 
four parts. The colorful tone presents the 
theme of Marguerite's Romance. 
Marguerite echoes the English horn, joins it, 
then allows it to take over. The pianissamo 
accompaniament of the orchestra grows to a 
mezzo piano, but the English horn there is 
still prominent. As the orchestra dynamics 
grow, the meters change from duple to triple 
with much energy, but we find ourselves 
searching for the English horn theme. 
Suddenly, both Marguerite and the English 
horn return for a short time, travelling into 
the minor then returning to the major. The 
off-stage brass returned in a very 
commendable performance. Once again, the 
English horn pastorale solo returns, and 
Marguerite sings on top of it. Yet, we still 
long to hear more. The bass soloist and 
tenor soloist perform various rage ariosos. 
The oboe solo is heard under the tenor and 
bass, played by James Gorton. It returns
periodically throughout intertwining with 
the women in the chorus. In the Epilogue 
on Earth, the chorus chatters nonsense 
syllables and the woodwinds articulated 
immensely fast. Once again, there was a 
poor entrance by the males in the chorus and 
in the tenor section, we could pick out 
individuals straying to insensitive volumes 
and breaking away as if performing their 
personal rendition of the work. Finally, 
Heaven is depicted through the idiomatic 
flute and harp. The chorus joins and ;the 
English horn and oboe lines appear. A 
commendable duet between the first chair 
violin I players, namely Fritz Siegal and 
Victor Romanul, was delivered. The chorus 
relays the final emotions, that hope is 
restored, and all will be externally blessed.
Overall, the performance proved to be one 
of the best of the entire season. The 
atmosphere in Heinz Hall throughout the 
entire piece was of energy and intensity. All 
seemed pleasingly overwhelmed with the 
immenseness of the work, and the many 
techniques and lines portrayed within it. 
With the exception of occassional 
distractions within the audience, and tenor 
section of chorus, the work was delivered 
with great precision, expression, and 
professionalism.
CAfcd at (he Symphony:
Moaart, Symphony CAfo. JI 
(0*ark) 
jCisd, 0*iano Concerto ^No. 
I
Stravinsky, The firebird
e there is
stitutefor 
experience.
face one ofAfter youre done with school, you the hardest lessons in life: Without experience, its tough to get a job. And without a job, its tough to
i Streetjournal, we recognize that expe rience is something you dont %start earning until after graduation.But while youre waiting, we can give you a head start by providing some of the same competitive advantages that experience brings.For instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a dearer understanding of the whole complex world of business.Our tightly focused feature reporting prepares you for your more specific ambitions whether in management, accounting, finance, technology, marketing or small business.And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper and more persuasive way.
Call 800-257-1200,* Ext. 1066or mail the coupon-and start your 4 subscription to The Wfedl Street Journal at student savings of up to $48 off the regular subscription price.Thats a petty generous offer. Especially when you consider what it actually represents. Tuition for the real world.
lb subscribe, call 800-257-1200^1 I Ext 1066 toll-free.Or mail to The Wall Stntt Journal. 500 3rd Aw W, Seattle WA 98119? Send me one year of The'AMI Street Journal fcir $66- IMi inr t4)t off tkr rrtotar mbicnptwm pncr .? Send me 15 weeks fi'r *26 ? Payment enclosed I
Name...___
ZipSrhiNilMifnr41 .MilhiOUr TV tMt NTheVtdl Street Journal. I|r4SNT The doth dunfflkrAmmamdmm264 |
*ln Pennsylvania, call 800-222-3380, Ext 1066.4MUO piis Jone* A Company Inc
FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALL FOR FREE DELIVERY 1 2 NOON TO I 2 MIDNIGH
682-333
our dough mode FRESH doily
810 IVY STRfET * SMADYSIDi682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO:
 Shodyside  Pt. Breere 
 Sq. Hill  Oakland  ' ^
 Friendship Pork 
 Bloomfield 
 Highland ParJ^
.4^ past w 1 * b nr ttkk
^FBII DELIVERY ___
COUPON I
|
! Large Cheese Pizza i 
| $ 3.99 
Immmm ______________"
(All sandwiches come with rr.elted provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie.......................... 4.00
Vi Hoagie............................. . 2.00
Hot Sausage................................3.90
Meat Ball.....................................3.90Cheese Hoagie............................3.20Steak Hoagie..............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. ................4.20
Cold Sub........................ ....... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe).........................4.70
(Roil Italian Capicolla with Qroon 
Roppors. Mushroom $ 4 that Special Touch)
(All topped with froth tattoo#. tomato, onion  untoaa apociftod) 
(Groan Roppors or Muahroqma  2P Extra)

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanNovember 25,1986
Classifieds
Cars
76 Ford Grenada - 4 door, 6 cyl, auto, 
PS/PB, A/C, AM-FM Cassette. Clean, 
reliable, and seeks new home. Call Mark <> 
621-6572 days, 683-4264 evenigns.Saab-99 1975: Newly inspected. Very 
good condition. Blaupunkt radio. Sun roof. 
Good in the snow. $1,900. 461-6521.
Wanted/Jobs
Wanted: Student Spring Break
Representatives for Collegiate Tour & 
Travel. Earn complementary trips and cash. 
For more information call (612)780-9324 or 
write 9434 Naples NE, Minneapolis, MN 
55434, attn: John.Wanted: School representative for
collegiate sporting company. Great pay. Call 
collect 1-813-346-2009.
^______ Housing_________
Wanted: Female roommate to share
Squirrel Hill apartment. $ 192/mo. plus one 
third utilities. Available December 13. 
Evenings 421-0488.
______Typing Services______
Napolean Writing Services:
Specializing in resumes/reports/term 
papers/graphs & charts/thesis/editorial & 
revisions. Pick up and delivery. 462-7109 
evenings.
Misc.
RAP-O-GRAM songs. 421-2323.
Study medical venipunture at
Phlebotomy Training Center. Inexpensive 
express course with on the job hospital 
practice (State licensed). Call 521-7334.
Personals
Rocky:
Come home-we miss you!!
-B.W.
Ok, I'U show you how its done...
...How does it work??
-Kurt (It figures you don't know!)
JB:
Give me a call.
-Dave
Get Personal with Tartan Personals.
All replys directly to you.
Renee:
Thanks for being the most special person 
in the world!!
Liebe, Al.T.
SMT seeks 18" tall Td. Br. for talks aid Ice 
Cream. Write Box Theo Br.
Lisa:
The bestest EIC that we know.
-the gang
Tired of trying to meet people at Scotland Yard or Tartan Grill? Does 
waiting in Grey Matter for the right one get 
ya down? Put a personal in our personals and 
get personal with a person you want to get 
personal with. Personally.
Dave T.B. Levy:
You know all those nites weve spent 
togetether? Thank you.. It helped alot 
-you know whom...
Greeks
Thanks - The new anchormen.
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm 
on Monday, December 3, in his office, 602 
Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet 
with the president should telephone his 
secretary at 268-2200 to set up an 
appoinmentThe Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For 
more information call 681 -3181.Painting of Industry Exhibition by 
Cynthia F. Cooley, at the Associated Artists 
of Pittsburgh Gallery, Pittsburgh Center for 
the Arts. Exhibition continues through 
December 23. Gallery Hours are 10 am to 5 
pm, Tuesday through Saturday and 1 pm to 
5 pm, Sunday.Buhl Science Center. Laserium.
Journey to an energetic and colorful world 
where blazing lights and magical images 
glow and gyrate to music by rock's most 
spectacular artists in Laserium, presented 
live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, 
Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, 
Saturday. For current concerts call 321- 
5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. 
For more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Corner," interact with newly-hatched 
chicks and ducklings - new ones hatching 
weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images  let your 
imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 
pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"Foucault Pendulum," displays proof of the 
Earth's rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm -
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm -
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"The Right Moves," You're the star 
performer in Buhl's new action-packed 
exhibit exploring the body in motion! 
Exciting hands-on activities  Momentum 
machine, Video Strobe, Pitch - It and more - 
let visitors investigate the mechanics of 
motion "step by step." Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 
pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
Miniature Railroad and Village. A Buhl 
tradition that has delighted visitors for 
generations! Trains, boats and dozens of 
tiny animations keep audiences spellbound! 
This season's exhibit sets the turn of the 
century countryside in each of the four 
seasons  don't miss it at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Children's 
Theatre. A Christmas Carol. Scrooge, 
Tiny Tim, Bob Cratchit and a host of 
Ghosts tread across the stage in this holiday 
favorite! Join in the good cheer and warmth 
of Charles Dickens most famous tale at 11 
am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, 
Sundays, from November 22 through 
December 28.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre 
Center. Peter Pan. Rockwell Theatre at 2 
pm and 7 pm, Sundays; 8 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday, beginning December 2 and 
continuing through December 14. For ticket 
information call 621-4445.
Tuesday
Movies
This is Spinal Tap, starring 
Christopher Guest, Michael McKean and 
Harry Shearer. Funny parody of rock band 
documentaries. A zany film. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept. of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor David F. Ollis, North 
Carolina State University, speaks on 
"Catalysis of Immobilized Microbial Cells" 
at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 10:45 am in the 
conference room, DH 1102.
Music
Dept. of Music Senior Recital.
Maria Rehnstrom, voice, performs at 8 pm 
in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) center sponsors an 
English Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood 
dining hall.
Wednesday
Movies
Repo Man, starring Emilio Estevez and 
Harry Dean Stanton. Off-beat film about a 
kid who, with the help of a car repossessor 
tries to find a Chevy Malibu and collect a 
$20,000 reward. As wild as it sounds. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Thursday
Movies
The Man Who Would Be King,
starring Sean Connery, Michael Caine and 
Christopher Plummer. Excellent adventure 
film about two soldiers of fortune out to 
strike it rich. Based on a Rudyard Kipling 
story. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Friday
Movies
Out of Africa, starring Meryl Streep, 
Klaus Marie Brandauer and Robert Redford. 
Picturesque film about Isak Dinesen, the 
famous Danish writer, and her love affair 
with Africa. Many Oscars. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 10:10 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Confidence. This taut drama, set in 
Budapest during World War II, examines the 
need for human trust. The film's heroine, 
whose husband works for the Resistance, is 
forced to pose as mother man's wife. Their 
relationship serves as a metaphor for all the 
uncertainty of that period. Hungarian, 
English subtitles. The Carnegie Museum of 
Art at 8 pm. Admission $3.
Special Events
Pakistani Student Association 
Farewell party for graduating students at 6 
pm in Scaife Hall 320. All Pakistani 
students and staff welcome. For more 
information call x8849.
Saturday
Movies
The Gods Must Be Crazy, starring 
Nixau, Marius Weyers and Sandra Prinsloo. 
Comic film about the Bushmen whose lives 
are changed when someone drops a bottle of 
Coke out the window of a plane. Many 
funny scenes. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Sunday
Movies
Les Miserables, starring Frederic March, 
Charles Laughton, Cedric Hardwicke, 
Rochelle Hudson and Florence Eldrige. 
Thief tries to become respectable, but police 
inspector won't let him in this splendid 
version of Victor Hugo's great novel. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
The Man With One Red Shoe, 
sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 
8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
Monday
Movies
El Cid, starring Charlton Heston, Sophia 
Loren, Raf Vallone, Genevieve Page and 
Hurd Hatfield. Very big film, but often 
quite satisfying, as Charlton Heston drives 
the Moors from Spain. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
If you wish to place an announcement, | 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University I I 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between Delta 
Upsilon and ATO).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event,
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and | 
phone number of the person submitting th( j 
entry; this information will be used only tc | 
confirm the event.The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit I 
any listing for publication.
Classified ads are taken in our office, Slcibo 
Rm 50, only, and will not be taken over_lh 
phone.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless . 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions w 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
LOST
Gold Ladies Watch
Extreme Sentimental Value
If found please call Harriet at x4755 
or leave with CMU Security 
or send mail to HK0C@TC
REWARD!

---------------------------------------------------

Vfj? 
vV. X v- *&&*&'*.* /*  v*' % v*v.: -?.'
fV?... - , . -
POETRY
BY
WOMEN

---------------------------------------------------

v.,:" -t?.-* "r.'L .
.' -! - s?a*dr~~' .  .*  :' '*.i; r > : !.
. f
4th Grade Lunch Period
"They're just kids. . ."
Jeffs pants were always too short.
In gym class he was the last one 
anybody ever chose for their team 
(even after all the girls)
One day during lunch 
he vaulted onto the windowsill 
and slid halfway out 
his knuckles solid white ice 
clenched on the hissing radiator.
The lunch mother choked on her cottage cheese 
coughing some onto her pantsuit.
She could not get near enough to the windowto even attempt to penetrate
the fresh, pink-scrubbed circle
we made around him
waving our Charlie Brown thermoses
and shreiking jump.
L
Allyson Halpem

---------------------------------------------------

London Stone
You sit on the tube
Tatjana Meerman
"20 p. Miss."
Cooly you walk back and pay 
With pretence of oblivion to all. 
A flick of your long nail 
Which you no longer bite.
Yea.
You walk with your 'cute ass' 
'Marilyn Monroe nipples' bouncing 
While the night wind blows 
Through your 'ginger hair.'
Yea.
Eight hours a day, 
Seven days a week. 
This is the 'real world.'
But I dream; I know 
This is but a stepping stone.
and try to look so bloody tough 
With a fag in your hand 
And a sneer on your face.
Yea.
You work; you screw 
Yea.

---------------------------------------------------

(as Station
The Amoco station is still 
the last before the bridge 
out of Freeport. I use the selfserve pumps. My jeans seem 
a lot tighter than the> used to.
I notice a boy and a girl in the truck 
in front of me. She's seven, maybet(X) young to know she's pretty.
She's jumping on the wheels with her brother, 
clutching the sideboard to keep her balance.
I go in to pa\ the beautiful 
high sch(x>l bo\ I sometimes exchange 
jokes with. He's talking to a girl 
his age. d(K*sn t stop as he gives me 
m\ change.
T his time I remember to put the eas 
cap on. try to pass a Camaro on the hill 
m.i\ from town._____ _____ _____

---------------------------------------------------

(Laurareceived the Adamsom
*Vt
r jZu >W^,
i
This Aunt
This aunt of mine has always lived 
alone, except when she was taking 
care of Grandma, who was manicdepressive and had to be taken away 
occasionally, for more rest.
This Christmas she gave me a 
shoe box full of single 
cans of Dinty Moore beef stew.
I ate one today, and then went 
upstairs to the bathroom, knowing 
I wouldn't even have 
to close the door .
Laura Waldron
 

---------------------------------------------------

\ ,*! *

5EluwiLfl >4vt
\
r.  
  ::
-t
s...
Practiced in Waiting
My eyes would travel over her song 
books and stacks of sheet music smelled 
of the years she had practiced for us.
People who stopped by weekly to stir
up old melodies in settling
dust.
Sometimes Id venture upstairs where 
even loud playing became muffled 
in the walls. The rooms had a morbid 
privacy about them and the air 
felt like somebody's last breath. Checking 
behind me, I'd rush to the bathroom 
where a person could breath the real world 
in a tube of toothpaste or a box 
of Kleenex. I could hear my sister's 
fingers stop and knew I would be called 
soon. The hall seemed thick with an unkind 
presence which secretly wanted to 
lure me into its timeless comers 
and darkened cracks.
Downstairs at the keys 
she noticed my hands were still shaking.
Cara Lynn Ravella
Respected Critics
"I like the swirling eroticism
of the black stone relief," she blurted
out as she tightened her Gucci belt.
Nodding and mumbling in unison
was the friend who shared her view, but more
importantly, her fine taste in belts.
And there was the very precious 
thin lady who recorded every pearl 
that was dropped amid the churning currents 
of designer perfume- and the shameful 
woman whose roots were showing and deemed 
it best to remain silent. By far
the best performances went to a pair 
of pressed and primped society dames 
who were even flatter in real life 
than their pictures in 'Town and Country' 
and who somehow managed to agree 
emphatically with each conflicting view.
I, myself, having seen my mother's scowl 
flash before me, declined to commentbut secretly cursed the French Academie 
as we moved downstairs for refreshments
Cara Lynn Ravella
DB3tNP *V KNOttCA rAive*.

---------------------------------------------------

/ thought you might like these.
He passes me a blue box tied with gold ribbon 
As if it was the mornings mail.
"What's this?" I ask.
My voice strives for a higher octave.
The words intended to sound mildly curious 
Reveal the ancient anxiety I experience 
While speaking to my father.
Open it and stop bothering me.
I consider doing battle-- 
Accusing him of bothering me with this package. 
Instead, I'm curious, and untie 
ribbon I know I'll save. Under folds of tissue 
I discover a treasure;
Venetian glass beads.
His tone makes me appreciate 
The distance they've traveled.
If you don't like them, give them to your mother.
I study the two strands of beads.
They are round and blue; I feel I'm being watched 
By one hundred pairs of my father's eyes.
Don't you have anything to say?
This man, who doesn't remember his children's names. 
But who can tell you the composer of any adagio, 
Waits for kind words he's never given.
"Thank you," is eloquent and short.
He doesn't hear my voice shake,
And I preserve my calm appearance.
He looks into me.
Is that the best you can do?
"Are beads the most you can give?"

---------------------------------------------------

SVhcCTm
L I T E R A T U R E  D E S I G N
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon. All manuscripts must 
be typed. Please include your name, address, and 
phone number on a seperate cover sheet. Due to 
plagiarism laws, anonymous submissions and 
submissions under pseudonyms cannot be accepted. 
Submissions may be sent through campus mail to 
Dossier, c/o The Tartan, 103 Skibo. or dropped off 
at the Tartan office, Skibo Room 50
Volume 8 Number 2 
November 25, 1986 
Editor: John Babich 
Assistant Editor: Pam Horn 
Art Director: Justin Miller 
Typesetting: Mary Murphy
