Stuart Schlisserman
Special Election Issue!
John Alexander
Volume 80, Number 20 f l |H f I Carnegie-MelIon University
March 7, 1980 M BvT |B 1 Pittsburgh, PA 15213A/VIY A.rYl ^
Nina Houska
Why do you want to be the President of 
Student Government, and why do you feel 
you are qualified to hold that position?
For the first part of that question, I 
dont feel that the previous Presidents of 
Student Government, while Ive been here, 
have done good jobs. I dont think theyve 
been working to represent or fulfill the 
needs of the student body.
I think that the Presidents should have 
had a more open system of communication 
with students to encourage people to know 
whats going on. The organizations should 
be working together and it should be the 
President that encourages this working 
together and discourages the petty bick
ering thats been going on which is basic
ally caused by misunderstandings.
The President should also hold reguflar 
meetings with administrators so that he 
knows whats going on and he can get 
answers to questions. He should also org
anize committees to investigate things that
he cannot handle himself, He should realize 
what he can and cant do, but not be afraid 
to use his abilities and know what his 
resources are. I feel that Im qualified to do 
these things because Im currently Vice 
Chair of Student Senate and because of my 
position Ive worked with Senates four in
ternal committees. I feel that I can com
municate between the committees and help 
them work together so that efforts arent 
duplicated and things run more smoothly.
Ive proven that I can work with people 
when I was chair and Vice Chair of the 
General Campus and Information com
mittee. I reorganized that committee and 
took it from one that did absolutely noth
ing to one that did. some work. This is a 
trend that I think Senate is starting to 
follow. Ive also recently reorganized the 
Commuter Council, and worked, somewhat, 
at helping the graduate students organize. 
In both those efforts Ive worked with 
people, Ive proven that I work with people.
I have
to what the different facti&ns of 
campus think is needed.
What do you think the President 
Student Government should 
doing?
The President should represent al 
of the students. He shouldnt be a pup 
pet of Senate, who just goes to I 
Senate meetings and hears what 
have to say and represents the Senate 
He should also be going to SDC meetings, 
he should know what the grad students 
want, what the commuters want, what 
WRCT, TARTAN, AB, all the organiza
tions think. He should know what 
of the students think as well. He needs 
a good feedback system so he can 
Student input and relay that to the org
anizations that are responsible for dealing 
with those things. He should also be able to 
have regular meetings with the adminiscontinued on page 4
Why do you want to be the President of 
Student Government, and why do you feel 
you are qualified to hold that position?
First let me answer why I want to be 
President. I feel the things I want to accom
plish now I would not be able to accom
plish in the capacity of my present position 
in H&SSSAC. I think that my ideas require 
the resources and facilities that a Student 
Government President has at his fingertips.
1 feel that since my Freshman year Ive 
been involved here. Ive not only done 
work in H&SS SAC but the fact that Im a 
Resident Assistant helps show that I can 
communicate and deal with people.
1 think I can express my views and my 
ideas as Ive written for the TARTAN. I 
feel that academically I can hold my own 
here, so I could handle the pressures of 
student government president as well as 
academic pressures. I feel that by not only 
being involved in these things, H&SS SAC 
which really originated under my leader
ship. 1 feel that the organization has grown 
under me. Im not presiding over it. You 
know' were doing these various functions 
that I think are quite remarkable, in view 
of the fact that these really four main
people working, and the fact that were 
doing the Spring Fling, and were working 
on internship programs. The good things 
weve done with the catalogue and the evalcontinued on page 4
This is the first of what we at the. FARTAN hope will be a yearly issue.
in this special election issue, we have 
included the usual pictures of candi
dates, both for Senate and President. We 
have also included the statem ts from 
Senate candidates that normally appear 
in a regular issue along with the pictures.
But this issue is important for three main 
reasons. First, it is an issue devoted entire
ly to the upcoming election. This permits 
us to give you more information than we 
would have space for in a regular issue.
Secondly, it has cvme out six days 
This is to give you
given you their views on these pages. 
What questions did the interviews and 
statements raise in your mind? We urge 
you to get them answered before mu vote 
next Wednesday or Thursday.
Last, and most important, this special 
issue has allowed us to print indepth 
interviews with each of the Presidential 
candidates. They each answered the same 
four questions so that you can measure 
them all by the same yardstick.
There have been many questions and 
complaints raised about Senate and 
Student Government President over the 
past year. Soon it will be time for all of us 
to have a very tangible voice in the make
up and direction our Student Government 
takes for the coming months.
Why do you want to be President of the 
Student Government, and why do you feel 
you are qualified to hold that position?
I feel that I am qualified to be President 
of the Student Government because the 
President of Student Government is the rep
resentative for all the students on campus. 
Thats the basic definition, you can go a lot 
farther than that.
I feel that ever since Ive been a fresh
man, Ive been representing the students. 
Ive been involved in SDC, WRCT, AB, and 
Student Senate a little bit. Ive been in
volved in a lot of smaller organizations on 
campus. I know whats going on. I was 
involved with WRCT in raising money for 
the new antenna. Ive been involved in 
building the station to what it is. In SDC, 
I was the priniciple person in getting a 
reading day and the five exam days instead 
of four for finals.
When 1 was VP, I started the Housing 
Committee with Gary Dalton and we re
wrote the entire housing contract, making 
sure students rights are upheld. The Uni
versity has to uphold them and define 
them a little bit better. For example, the 
University is not allowed to walk in your 
room to do dorm checks to make sure that 
you dont have appliances.
The fire safety in Morewood is still 
not terrific, but its better than its been: 
We brought President Cyert into Morewood 
last year and gave him a tour, showed him 
exactly how bad At was. We brought him 
into a room next to a fire alarm, and set 
off the alarm and you could not Hear it in 
the room; so that was changed.
I feel that I do care, I am involved. 
When I see something thats wrong or that 
I think is wrong, I go and find out why it 
is the way it is and if its possible to change, 
I do something about it. I think these are 
pretty good qualifications.
What do you think the President of 
Student Government should be doing?
I think at the basic level, he should 
make sure the students are heard. The 
Senate overall* is supposed to be the rep
resentative of the entire student body, SEC 
represents specifically the people in the 
dorms. Spirit represents blacks or the min
orities. I guess on campus, there are little 
organizations that represent facets of the 
entire CMU community. Each Senator rep
resents a certain portion of his/her con
stituency. But the President of Student 
Government is responsible to make sure 
the entire voice of the student body is 
heard.
We dont have the type of facilities that 
other colleges do and I think we should 
have. Thats something <hat a Student 
Government President can get people in
volved in. For example, a Fine Arts Comp
lex; There was one scheduled to built in 
back of Morewood Gardens years ago but 
because of financial difficulties it was cancontinued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2TARTANMarch 7,1980Senate
TARTAN
Make the effort
Most CMU students are aware that each year the Student Government elects a 
President and new members to the Student Senate. If you live in Donner or More
wood or get to Skibo during those two days of the school year, you've probably 
been yelled at by an energetic poll worker to take a minute to cast your ballot. Maybe 
you stopped at the table, or maybe you didn't because you felt unconvinced, unin
formed, or simply uninterested.
As members of the student body, the TARTAN Editorial Board can empathize 
with common sentiment regarding the student government elections. In a concerted 
effort to perform a service to the student population of CMU, we have worked to pro
vide full coverage of the upcoming elections. From Tuesday night's TART AN-spon
sored debate to this Special Election Edition, the Editorial Board hopes to improve the 
dissemination of essential information about the candidates for all positions.
We have also debated performing the standard newspaper function of endorsing a 
Presidential candidate after careful evaluation of the qualities of those elegible. As a 
Board, we have been unable to reach a consensus in recognizing one candidate as un
questionably superior. That is not to say that we, as individuals, do not hold personal 
preferences.
Through the journalistic process, we have become absolutely convinced that this 
election deserves the time and effort required by the voter to make an intelligent 
choice. The issues are important and the decision will be close. You have the power 
to assure that choice is truely representative of student opinion. It is our goal to 
make this task easy for you. Hopefully with this information, we as a student body, 
will prevent future panic like that which surrounded the Student Government Presi
dent representing CMU in Washington. We can accomplish this by electing a qualified 
candidate now.
Here: We are handing the tools over to you. Read everything; consider what con
cerns you.most as a CMU student. Recall those complaints you discuss every night at 
dinner and decide which candidate will best represent you. This is your voice. The 
election puzzle is now left to you. The TARTAN Editorial Board encourages you 
to VOTE, now more than ever'.
Listen to them!
In case you weren't able to make it to the Debate last Tuesday night, you're getting 
a second chance. This next Monday and Tuesday, the Senate is sponsoring video-taped 
showings of the Debate in Skibo Lobby (near the Grey Matter).
We hope you will stop in and listen for a bit. The panel of student leaders from 
Senate, SDC, the TARTAN, WRCT, UFO, and some perceptive members of the 
audience asked some very pointed questions, and the candidates gave some pretty 
direct answers.
The TARTAN learned more about each candidate at the debate, and we think you 
might, too.
The TARTAN Editorial Board
TARTAN
Volume 80Number 20March 7,1980
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Contributing Editors:
Editor-in-Chief : Susan Borg 
Managing Editor: Smita Pai 
Business Manager: Karen Steven*
Associate Editor: Doug Kjrsop 
Production Manager : Ed Zayat 
Jim Baiaom Sports Editor .
Renee Ratenfeid Dossier Editor:
Richard Gorelick Photography Editor:
Michael Brzustowicz Art Director:
lean Rtllegrini 
K. MacPhee Kulak
Wesley Seeley 
Lynn Epstein 
Robert Zusman 
Tom Hart
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Mel Ion University TARTAN. All rights reserved. The Editorial board 
reserves the right to edit or withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded 
in part by the Student Government of Carnegie-Mel Ion University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial 
Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour answering service 2113. Business offices: Skibo 
52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206.
MIS
$20 of yours will be the contribution 
for an increased Activities Fee (Did you 
know that?) next year. Do you know 
how it will be spent? I would like to let 
all the students know what Student Senate 
accomplishes, and how it allocates the 
students money. We might find wed like 
some changes made.
If youre concerned with the danger of 
FIRE in Morewood, or hot water in 
Donner, or would like to see more con
certs on campus, then Im with you.
My stance may not be one of the typi
cal politician, but if you would like to see 
some life pumped into campus activities, 
and be better informed about how things 
get done or just would like to see some real 
student opinions put into action, please 
vote for me.
DAVID ZALKIN 
MIS
I would like to see greater involvement 
by the general student body in more cam
pus activities. If elected, I would try to start 
activities which could be run by any stu
dent not just those who are members of 
certain committees. I believe that this 
would help reduce apathy and get people 
more involved in whats going on at CMU.
MIS
Because CMU is a private institution, 
its administration does not have to be as 
responsive to its students. At a state 
institution, the administration is under 
substantial public pressure to more ade
quately fulfill its students needs. I believe 
that this discrepancy is the major cause 
for the apathy that encompasses this 
campus. We passively accept a non-unified 
student body with a dismal morale. There
fore, we must work harder with the administation to promote this unification. 
For three years I have witnessed a dormant 
student senate with representatives seek
ing only to pad their resumes.
VOTE!
MIS
I would like to continue representing 
MIS on Student Senate. Essentially here 
is what I would like to accomplish as a 
Senator: 1) improve food service con
ditions, 2) express my opinion on regis
tration and the draft, 3) see that Student 
Activities fee money is well distributed to 
benefit students, 4) oppose wasteful 
procedures in the Senate (such as impeach
ing a Senate offcr whose term has only a 
month left), 5) and greatly increase the 
communication between the Senate and 
the student body. Senators should com
municate with students as frequently as 
possible to find out where they stand on 
the important Senate issues. Since this is 
only my freshman year, I plan to achieve 
all of my goals in the years to come,
XTruM
DAVID OLSEN 
MIS
I would like to remain on the Student 
Senate because I enjoy helping to get 
things done on this campus. From exper-. 
ience, I find it easier to get things done 
with the backing of an organization such 
as the Student Senate and it would be eas
ier to get things done with a title such as 
student senator.- Serving and aiding peo
ple also makes me happy.
Speaking and interacting in as many 
ways as possible appears only natural for 
most students, but should be demanded of 
student senators. I believe that all students, 
especially student senators, should attempt 
to discover and satisfy the desires of other 
students.
I also believe that the student senate and 
therefore, the student senators should be 
as open as possible. This may all sound 
well and good, but, not carry much weight 
due to lack of example; so her goes:
Before becoming a member of student 
senate, I looked into where the money 
which had not been deposited into ValiDine accounts actually was. I am beginning 
to become satisfied by the answers I have 
been receiving. I also attempted to have 
the doorknobs Which were stolen by one 
of the auxiliary services from the main 
doors of both Boss and McGill Hall re
placed. I am also an SDC representative, 
but have been less active due to a class 
conflict with meetings.
Since becoming a student senator, I 
have become an active member of the fi
nance committee and the draft information 
dissemination committee.
Thus, I would like to remain senator so 
as to better serve the students of C-MU by 
listening to their desires and trying to satis
fy them.

---------------------------------------------------

Candidates
March 7,1980-TARTAN-Page 3
MARY "RUDY" WATSON 
H&SS
As a sophomore double-majoring in 
Public Policy and Management and Applied 
History, I am greatly interested in political 
science. The Student Senate provides ex
periences that, 1 hope will give me further 
understanding of legislative actions. I am 
concerned that problems pertaining to stu
dents are solved in a rational manner and 
feel that through this concern I will be a 
strong representative.
A representative should be trustworthy, 
hard working, and organized. I will strive 
to fulfill these requirements.
MIKE FRYD 
CIT
First of all, I want to admit that I real
ize^ I did ^poorly in the Mass. primaries. 
However I attribute this to the fact that 
there are so few CIT people in Mass. com
pared to Democrats and Republicans. I 
would also like to point out that there 
is absolutely no truth to the rumor that 
I told Ronald Reagan his duck joke.
I realize that Carter doesnt like us to 
talk about it but, I pray for the release 
f the hostages every night. I also have 
prayers concerning the Ayatollah but I 
shouldnt get into those here.
Some of the competition has resorted 
to mud-slinging by making allegations con
cerning my sanity. Let me end the contro
versy right now by saying that I am sane 
and I have the papers the doctors gave 
me to prove it.
We should definitely have someone 
look into the feasibility of adding sham
poo dispensers to all the showers out
side the labs in Science Hall.
I will continue to publicly deny all re
ports of me paying for votes. Anyone 
who may want further information on 
this subject is encouraged to meet me in 
private.
JAMES M. COLLYER 
CFA
I am currently a senator from Fine Arts 
on the academic affairs committee. I hope 
to continue to serve the Fine Arts commu
nity for another term.
FELICIA PRATTO 
H&SS
Hello, CMU. I would like to introduce 
myself as a candidate for Student Senate, 
H&SS. I am an H&SS freshman from 
Greensboro, NC who plans on double - 
majoring in sociology and physics. If 
Im not in your classes, you may rec
ognize me from H&SS SAC gatherings, 
Philosophy club meetings, Scotchn Soda 
productions, the Pittsburgh Oratory.
In the past month, talk about the Senate-student communication gap, the inabil
ity of Senate to control its proceedings, 
and the need for examination of the Sen
ate bylaws has been raised. However, th,e 
March 4 meeting was just as stagnent as the 
previous ones.
I would like to freshen Senate activity 
by knowing student opinion on important 
issues, providing ample opportunity for 
your input, and practicing care in voting.
Although I am only in my second sem
ester at CMU, I am more than adequately 
equipped to serve as Senator. By attending 
meetings of various organizations and keep
ing informed of campus happenings, I have 
prepared myself for office. Since I strong
ly believe in particepation in government, I 
am experienced in Audent, youth and com
munity campaigns. I am knowledgable 
about university proceedings as I have lived 
on campuses all my life. I am experienced, 
prepared, concerned, and conscientious.
CIT
There are a sizeable number of graduate 
students at Carnegie-Mellon. Over onefourth of the students at this school are 
involved in graduate studies. As a grad
uate student, I feel that their representa
tion in student government is not commen
surate with their numbers on campus. I 
am running for student government in an 
effort to represent the graduate students 
at CMU, whose needs and wants some
times differ from those of the under
graduates.
* RALPH M. SHERMAIM 
H&SS
I would like to ask you to return me to 
Senate at this election time. The past year 
as a Senator has been a busy one in which 
I have represented H&SS on Senate as rules 
committee chaiperson, Student Senate 
Chairperson, and presently as Student gov
ernment President. My work on Senate, 
and on many other student-faculty com
mittees, such as Auxiliary Services and 
Tuition Policy, has guaranteed that the 
needs and opinions of H&SS [students] 
have been forcefully and effectively ex
pressed. Though I could not shirk my 
duty when the last President resigned, 
I hope it will only be a temporary break 
in my work for you, and that with your 
votes, I can once again represent H&SS 
on Senate. Thank you, and I hope youll 
vote and GET INVOLVED!If
DAVID HUCHETTE 
CIT
My biggest reason for wanting to be
come a senator is to enable the students of 
the universtiy to be honestly represented. I 
would always be willing to listen to any 
student with a problem or a solution to 
a present problem. After all, the students 
make up this universtiy and therefore 
should have their voices heard. I will give 
students a voice in the universtiy commu
nity because I believe they know what 
will make CMU a better place. Im running 
for Senate because I believe I can provide 
students a valuable voice in student govern
ment.
* W1
HENRY THORNE 
CIT
As a student senator I will focus my 
energies toward the social aspects of Carnegie-Mellon University. I will try to get 
more funding for university-sponsored ent
ertainment. I will try to form a student 
Co-Op. And I will work towards forming a 
student union to boost and unify social 
activities on campus.
Kevin Kelly 
CITVOTE!
H&SS
As a sophomore, majoring in Public 
Policy and Management/Applied History, I 
have been around on this campus for near
ly two years and have witnessed an apa
thetic attitude that Im sure is no secret to 
you. The lack of student involvement in 
campus activities (including Student Sen
ate elections), the absence of an organized 
movement for the betterment of University 
Food Service and the seemingly non-exis
tent calls for an administration more 
directly responsive to the student body are 
all indicitive of the unconcerned feelings 
held by many.
However, these are problems that can be 
overcome with a new found interest in 
CMU, not necessarily as a university, but 
as a community of which all of us are 
members. With your help, in the form of 
increased interest, I believe I can make a 
difference by trying to make CMU a bet
ter place for each of us to live and learn.
SOTERIOS A. PAPOULIAS 
CIT
The reason that I am running for the 
Senate is to improve graduate student rep
resentation in student affairs. Presently 
there are only two graduate students in 
Senate, in spite of the fact that one-fourth 
of all enrolled students are graduate stud
ents. I believe that it is time to change that, 
since Senate decisions concern how your 
Activities Fee money is spent, funding of 
organizations, and other important issues.
There has recently been an effort to 
organize all graduate students at CMU 
which was reflected by the creation of the 
Graduate Student Organization (GSO). I 
will strongly support and initiate any 
activities that will improve inter
action of students from different De
partments and Colleges, which at pres
ent is quite small. Finally, with the issue 
of increasing the Activities Fee in the 
coming year pending, I would like to make 
sure that more services should be provided 
for all CMU students.
Raymond Mialki 
CIT

---------------------------------------------------

John Alexander
Page 4-TARTN-March 7,1980--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
continued from page 1
celled. From what I understand, that our 
endowment is now about $80,000,000 and' 
rising. So maybe we should redirect some 
of those funds and build some of the facilaties we need. We dont have the type of 
facilaties we need for the type of programs 
that the school has taken on. They have 
changed the Music Department into a Con
servatory. Theyve eliminated the music ed 
program, which I understood was one of 
the best in the country for music, and said 
that were going to make this a conservat
ory. There are no, new practice rooms. Ive 
gone over there. The pianos are horrendous; 
theyre as bad as the Morewood piano.
There are things like that that can and 
should be changed. Cyert has talked about 
new gym facilaties. I tfcink those are im
portant too, but we are here for an educa
tion. A theatre complex would be much 
better. A Student Union is important be
cause we have no sense of campus unity. 
Were split up into our individual colleges, 
and dorms, the fruits and the vegetables- it 
is classic. All those Letters to the Editor 
last year as to how people feel about it 
Were very split up-we shouldnt be. If the 
student body would get together and say 
things as a unit, the administration would 
have to act. I think the Student Govern
ment President can direct that, and help 
coordinate it. No member of any elected 
body can do or should do anything all by 
himself, especially the Student Govern
ment President. You get other people in
volved, you try and get other interests that 
is the only way you create interest in the 
organization as a whole. Ive been manag
ing AB and I think I can manage people 
fairly well. If things are going well, I dont 
say anything. If they arent going well I put 
my two cents in. I do care, I think Ive illus
trated that. I think that the President of 
Student Government is an opportunity for 
someone to become even more involved 
than they have been. It would be a good 
opportunity for me because I will be able 
to do what I have been, but better because 
of that office. Id like the chance.
What are some of the problems or issues
continued from page 1
uation of Dean Crecine. Now, Ive not only 
been involved in extra-curricular activities, 
but I think my work-study positions here 
also bear that out. I was trusted with some 
pharmacological experiments, as a student 
being allowed access to these drugs I think 
shows a certain amount of trust that the 
people put in me. I think all of these things 
combined, once you get through all the 
muck of what Im saying show that I can 
handle in a competent way.
What do you think the President of 
Student Government should be doing?
Well, I think first of all the President of 
Student Government should be uniting the 
student senate, so there isnt so much ani
mosity between the senators. I feel that the 
Student Government President, after unit 
ing this university. Lets forget the feeling 
that youre in H&SS, youre not gonna get 
a job, this or that, youre in CIT,you cant 
even write. And then those two say youre 
in CFA youre, you know, youre a fruit 
anyway. I mean that is nuts. I feel that as 
college students , we are all in the same 
bind. I also feel that its not only the job of 
the Student Government President here, 
but of the Student Government Presidents 
within the city to unite each university, so 
we can form a type of coalition, so we can 
bring the college students together, and not 
get shafted the way college students usual
ly are. For example, the food crisis. When 
this was going on, everyone -1 would say
that you, as President of Student Govern
ment would address? Why these as opposed 
to some others?
These are the things that come to mind, 
Theyre the most important. Another thing 
comes to mind is the draft. Students, have 
a tendancy to be apathetic until something 
effects them directly, and the draft hits 
home. The draft is something we should 
discuss. We should get an opinion from all 
the students, and make a stand one way or 
the other. This university should make a 
stand whether it is for or against; whether 
were for or we want some changes in cur-- 
rent draft legislation.
This university is very^big as far as ind
ustry is concerned. Industry pays for this 
university. Thats one of the reasons it in 
the black. Its not state funded. Industry 
has a very strong investment in this place 
so if this school made a stand, I think they 
would tend to listen. Weve supposedly 
some of the most educated people in the 
country, the cream of the crop, if you 
want to catagorize it that way. We should 
take time to find out exactly what is going 
on and what is being done and how it is 
going to effect us, because it ultimately 
does effect us. The majority of the people 
here are between 18 and 26 and its going 
to effect them, they should have a say. 
They ought to be informed about it and I 
think Senate overall and the President of 
Student Government should make sure 
they get an opportunity to be informed. 
Theres going to be a primary April 22. 
Some people are involved in getting regis
tration going, trying to get students to vote. 
Were going to be distributing some infor
mation, and making sure people are inform
ed. This is one of the things that you can 
get involved in.
In your opinion, what is the state of the 
Student Government at CMU?
The Senate has got a lot of potential. 
Ive seen senates work at other schools and 
some of them have been very effective. Ive 
yet to see any that have had as little effect 
as ours. They should become more involv
ed, they ought to canvass the people they 
are supposed to represent. They ought to 
show up at a SAC meetings to find out 
what is going on within their colleges. I 
dont know of any that do. I know this is a 
tough school but you can make time for 
anything you want to make time for. I 
know people that do very many things and 
still have very good grades and I think they 
are more well rounded people for that. 
You find out that if you do go out and get
a job, industry is looking for more well 
rounded people, people that know whats * 
going on. Theres alot of garbage going on 
around here. One of the things that Id 
even more because I have that extra voice 
to senate and another voice to the adminis
tration is to try and prevent things like that 
from happening. And if it does, find out 
exactly why, who was involved and try and 
prevent it. 
Nina Houska
continued from page 1
feel and not be afraid to take a stand like 
some past presidents who were afraid to 
go out and ask students what they think. 
Not just friends, but anybody he happens 
to grab across campus. He should go 
through the lunch room table by table and 
say, What do you think about this? and 
find out what people think and try to reppresent them.
Organize the students to work together 
and avoid little factions bickering among 
themselves who pose no threat to the ad
ministration, but an organized, responsible 
group who can make their feelings known.
What are some of the problems or issues 
that you, as President of Student Govern
ment, would address? Why these as opposed 
to some others?
The main problem on this campus is 
communication. This causes apathy and 
misunderstandings among the students. It 
prevents a lot of problems being solved be
cause people dont realize what avenues are 
open to them. I think that is something that 
has to be worked on through having organ
izations hire people to come up with alter
native communicatiofi systems. I personally 
think that there should be suggestion boxes 
at key places where students can drop in 
suggestions whenever they feel. This is some
thing Id like to get student feedback on. 
Id like to have a survey, for example, and 
find out what students think. It would 
be easy for them to communicate, if 
people answer the survey.
I also think there is a lack of activitiesStuart Schlisserman
most ot tne peopiexnew more about wnat 
was happening with Food Service than 
what was happening in Afghanistan and the 
possibility of the draft. These things go on 
all the time. You see, they let us worry 
abput these stupid little things that should 
never happen in the first place. And by do ing that, by making us worry about these 
little things, you know. Oh my God! I got 
a test tomorrow, I cant worry about Af
ghanistan. They get to shaft the college stu
dents, not only locally, but nationally. 
Were the most susceptible voters around, 
college' students. And I feel that the re
sponsibility of the Student Body President 
to see that, not only on a local basis, and 
at the university level, we dont get shafted, 
but also nationally.
What are some of the problems or issues 
that you, as President of the Student Gov
ernment would address? Why these oppos
ed to some others?
The problems I would address would be: 
The academia of the university, the rift be
tween the various colleges. A lot of this 
I mentioned in question two. First of all, 
one of the problems on this campus is UFO 
and the minorities. I dont know of too 
many minority students who are involved 
in the fraternity system right now. That is 
a problem that should be addressed.
I think that voter registration should be 
addressed here. I dont know how many 
students are now registered at this univer
sity. There is a primary coming up on April 
22, and I think it is important to get involv
ed in that, because these are things that
directly effect us. Another of the main 
things is the fire alarm system, that has got 
to be handled. I think that may be of most 
importance. If we have a fire in Morewood, 
we are going td lose alot of people. It is 
just, as the TARTAN reported the other 
day on the front page that a fire alarm 
went off once and the electronic fire doors 
didnt open. I mean, can you imagine what 
would happen if those doors did not open 
and we had a fire? I know a lot of these 
overlap with things SDC and Student Gov
ernment are. doing, but I dont see any rea
son why SDC and The Student Govern
ment can not work together.
Granted, there are other problems, but 
right now, these are some of the most 
pressing. I think that it should be a known 
fact that what John, Nina and I say, we 
have a lot of lofty goals between the 
three of us, but I don't really think its 
practical to think, and its a naive view if 
you do think that we are going to get 
everything done that we say. What I hope 
I can offer Senate, and the ill-defined job 
of Student Government President is a
mechanism.In your opinion, what is the state of the
Student Government at CMU?
Ive got to say that it sometimes looks 
Student Government at CMV?
Ive got to say that it sometimes looks 
like its in a shambles.- And it is. Its a cir
cus sometimes. They go back and forth 
for a half an hour discussing something 
they discussed four weeks ago when they 
thought they were finished discussing it
that are really good for all of the students 
on this campus. I think that things like a 
student-union building or some sort of 
rathskeller would be really good because 
the students dont have any place to get 
together and there is nothing to do. Other 
facilities such as the gym, could be improved 
as well, but my main stresses would be on f 
improving communications- between the 
students and the organizations, and between 
the organizations and the administration.
In your opinion, what is the state of the 
Student Government at CMU?
Student Government has improved 
vastly, since I first became a' member of 
Senate I would have to base this on Student 
Senate rather than some of the other org
anizations. For example, I was on SDC for 
a little bit,but I dont know anything about 
their progress over the year. *
Student Senate went from having people 
who conducted meetings that consisted 
pretty much entirely of petty bickering 
about such things of absolutely no import
ance to students or probably to themselves 
either and Student Senate has improved a 
lot. Theyve actively started to get things 
done. Theyve come a long way, but 
Student Government, still has a lot of work 
to do. Theyre still fighting with each other. 
The organizations started to get stronger, 
they have started bumping into each other. 
Instead of working with each other theyre 
fighting against each other and that needs 
to be improved. I see the organizations 
starting to do that; they just need some
body to pull them together.
five weeks ago. Thats why they dont get 
anything done. I think they get stuck on 
incidentials; they are at raid of standing 
by their decisions, of bad press. I think 
they are too concerned with the good 
image, with the TARTAN because they
were blasted a few times.Also, there is a problem in that too
many people like to hear themselves talk at 
Senate meetings. And they think they 
are running the show by making air these 
motions, or points of order, or points of 
information! They dont say anything, 
they just make all of these different reccomendations and I think some of them 
just like to hear themselves talk.
I think Ill have a way of making Senate 
feel more like a community of people. I 
think I can get them to work together, be 
friendly and get rid of these petty indiv
idual differences. Once we get rid of the 
differences, I think we can handle things. 
Government has been underestimated 
too many times. I think tRere is a hell 
of a lot more Student Government can do. 
And I think one of the reasons they cant 
do it is because they spend 40 minutes 
doing what was happening the night 
before. Going over some absurd things 
in which they themselves get lost, so that 
half the people dont know whats hap
pening. Im not mocking Senate. I just 
think its a problem and maybe the problem 
was lack of leadership for the past year or 
so. I think that once I get in and get these 
people working were gonna do a lot more 
loftier things.
