Photo by John Stilwell
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 17, February 15, 1983.
tudent dismissed as a 
suit of CMU drug bust
CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTO^
tan Assistant News Editor
On Wednesday, December 15, 1982, a 
|U student was accused by the adminjtion of drug possesion and one day later 
( dismissed from the University. One 
Ured quaaludes and an eighth of a gram 
tocaine were confiscated from the stu|ts room.
ccording to the students friend, who 
not to be idendfied, Tony Martin 
some other guy came back to his (the 
ients) room with him. He handed the 
over and cooperated. They had a list 
ie goings on in his room. He was kept 
ker pretty close watch. Im not sure how 
found out. It could have been a friendL-friend, or even the telephone, but I 
It think that was the actual case.
a phone interview from his home, the 
ient commented on the situation. They 
me that they have regular informants 
live in Housing that are friends of 
ising and that they heard about me at 
beginning of the year. I was dumb. I 
yed my music loud. People noticed me.
The student went on to add, My parent* 
were sympathetic. They know I have my 
shit together and can make my own 
decisions.
The decision to discipline the student fel 
on the shoulders of Acting Dean of Studen 
Affairs Brad Walter. The student though 
that Walter was relatively fair about th< 
situation. I think it is his job to contro 
drugs on campus, but I wish he would hav< 
given me a warning. That would hav< 
scared me enough that I would have stoppe 
doing what I was doing.
According to the students friend, then 
may have been between three and seven cam 
pus drug busts similar to this one. The stu 
dent was also forced to give the names of 
students who might be involved with drugs. 
I was being pressured with immediately 
having the Pittsburgh Police coming in. I 
would have had no help from the adminis
tration and could possibly have faced 
charges. The three people whose names I 
gave got talked to, but nothing else. I feel 
bad about doing that, but people who know 
the situation said that they would do the
Snow blanketed the CMU campus last week, leaving little uncovered.
same thing.
CFA student senator Tom McCarthy 
who, after learning erf the situation, accom
panied the student into Dean Walters office 
said, They used some pretty police-state 
tactics. I dont see it as the administrations 
job to pressure a student like they did with 
him. They should control drug trade, but
not by forcing a student to turn in other 
students.
Dean Walters only statement was that 
The administration will not turn its head 
when it becomes clear that a student is deal
ing drugs on campus. Chief erf Security 
Robert Fadzen had no comment cm the 
situation.
argaret Morrison Co-op opens for business
SUSAN BOSSI
Staffwriter
)n February 14, the Co-op store opened 
lone of the Margaret Morrison Plaza 
[es. Manager for the store is Richard 
erti and the supervisor is Laura Fogg, 
staff consists almost entirely of CMU 
lents.
ccording to Oscar Mayer, head of AuxiServices, the main function of the store 
serve the large dormitory population. 
|addition, the store will supply suppleltary shopping for the faculty and staff of
A refundable stores account, similar to the 
validine accounts already available through 
fexxl services, will be optional for students 
and faculty. These accounts may be used in 
any of the plaza stores including the laundry 
service and the Caber Club.
The Co-op store may be seen as an exten
sion erf Entropy; however, the two stores are 
not expected to be in competition. The Co
op store also carries fresh produce and a 
deli section featuring ready to order sand
wiches. In addition, various specialty items 
such as Haagen Dazs ice cream and doughnuts
offered.
According to Fogg, no profit is to be gen
erated from the store, only enough to cover 
expenses. She further stated, It is a student 
store that will be run professinally as any 
other grocery store would be.
Mayer stated that the idea for the Co-op 
store originated in 1979 during a brain
storming session of the Auxiliary Services
Infrastructure rebuilt
Committee. In addition, the idea was dis
cussed in student senate. The delay in opera
tion was due to a problem with obtaining a 
building permit.
The Co-op store is open seven days a 
week. The starting hours will be: 10 am to 10 
pm on weekdays, 10 am to 6 pm on Satur
days, and 12 am to 6 pm on Sundays. Sug
gestions from students and staff may be 
made to Laura Fogg.
CivE professor Fenves lectures
STEVEN FENVES
By CHARLES KRAISINGER
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Wednesday, February 9, the Wherrett 
Room was the scene of a lecture by Dr. 
Steven Fenves, university professor of civil 
engineering, entitled Rebuilding the 
Infrastructure: The Role of Technology, 
the third in the Presidents Distinguished 
Lecture Series. Although his vocation is in 
computer aided design, Fenves spoke about 
his avcxation instead, the infrastructure, or 
underlying structural foundations of the
United States.
During the talk, Fenves said he had consi
dered subtitling the lecture Are Civil Engi
neers Really Performing Much Worse Than* 
Other Kinds of Engineers? because a lot of 
the responsibility for the infrastructure is the 
responsibility of civil engineering  desipjn, 
operation and maintenance.
He commented that while discussing the 
crack which had developed in the 1-79 
bridge, an electrical engineer remarked, 
that contractor should be hung. He con
tinued, Thats a very old mentality. The 
first building code of record is part erf Ham
murabis Code from the sixth century B.C. 
in which there is a very clear-cut statement 
that says if a house should fall down and 
somebody gets killed, then the contractors
head shall be chopped off.  He explained 
civil engineering is different from other 
branches erf engineering in that a 100% per
formance rate is expected, 0% rejection rate, 
and you expect people to be liable if you 
dont reach 100%.continued cm page 7
In this issue
Editorial
Making the campus cohesive .......... 2
News
Music dept, reinstates education program .. 4 
Comments about offcampus housing ... .5 
Features
Fine Arts gets museum casts........... 9
Caber Club set to open...................... 9
Entertainment
"Lets Spend the Night Together.........13
Laurie Andersons "United States .... 16 
Sports
Tartans win in 5 OT*s..................... 19
Intramural standings..................... 20
Funnies................................. 22
Special Valentines ............... 18

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.___________________________________
New core, class activits help solve cohesiveness problem
We students at Camegie-Mellon might 
know who some of the other people in our 
respective college and class are, but more often 
than not, we will find ourselves seeing some
one across the Cut we know we have seen 
sometime from freshman Orientation, and 
simply say Oh, hi..Or else we come upon 
a sudden coughing fit because we dont 
remember his name. Sound familiar?
Here at CMU, we mostly associate with 
those in our majors. How many of you 
mechanical engineers can claim to be good 
friends of drama ts, for instance? And how 
many of you seniors are friends with freshmen? 
And for that matter, how many of you senior 
mechanical engineers know freshmen dra
ma ts? Not a majority, probably.
This incohesiveness is due in part to the 
professional atmosphere both the university 
and we impress upon ourselves. Freshmen 
come here and are immediately thrown into 
their own core curriculum.
We usually dont take electives from other 
colleges unless we have to, and when we do 
take them we are with other students from our 
own college. There is the MCS section of Fic
tion and Fact and the H&SS section of Calcu
lus I  university-enforced incohesiveness 
again.
There are ways, however, to develop more 
unity at CMU. One is through the proposed 
university-wide core courses. While it is too 
early to judge the quality of the actual courses, 
we think the idea is extremely good. Painters 
and English lit students should be exposed to 
technology, and ChemEs and biologists 
should be exposed to the humanities and fine 
arts. If students have at least one course in 
common, they will be able to begin to meet 
new and diverse acquaintances.
The university-wide core courses are a good 
idea, not because they add more professional
ism to the school, but because they help unite 
the student body. Recendy some students in
the junior class have attempted to do somec 
this uniting themselves.
Deans Cox and Walter have helped the 
students develop such activities for juniors 
parties, dinners, outings, et cetera. ^ 
encourages students to meet other members( 
their class, even if their majors are radio]) 
different.
Orientation helps to unify the fres^, 
and seniors attend common activities such; 
the banquet. It is important in such a diven 
and professional atmosphere for students i 
have a common thread, and we look forwan 
to the time when each class has its own activi 
ties to keep its members in contact with i 
other.
Only recendy have efforts been made towai 
this end, and these efforts should 
applauded. Whether through commo 
courses, activities, or even a new Studei 
Union, it is necessary to work toward a moi 
cohesive student body.
Confidentiality should not take priority in ethics
By Stuart Shapiro
Last week in New Orleans, members of 
the American Bar Association took one 
small step for themselves and one giant leap 
for the public. Unfortunately, it was a not so 
small step toward excessive and 
uncalled-for confidentiality and 
a giant leap away from greater 
social responsibility.
The policy -making House of Delegates of 
the ABA voted to amend a provision of a 
proposed ethics code which would have 
given lawyers discretion to disclose informa
tion about their clients in order to extricate 
themselves from situations in which they 
had been or were being used by their clients 
for criminal purposes. The amended ver
sion would take away even the option of 
indulging in that sort of socially responsible 
nonsense. Apparendy these lawyer types
have some rather peculiar notions about 
what constitutes ethical behavior.
Granted, confidentiality is essential to the 
attomey-client relationship. But like any
thing else, too much of a good thing is 
hardly that good. Should an attorney be 
compelled to remain silent upon the discov
ery of complicity, however unwitting, in 
criminal activities? Such a restriction cer
tainly offends my sensibilities, or at least 
those few I still retain after four and a half 
years of higher education.
This is not a matter of disclosure of infor
mation concerning the client alone. Once a 
lawyer has been transformed from counsel 
to accomplice, the attomey-client relation
ship, at least in my mind, has likewise been 
transformed. If a client uses an attorney as 
an instrument of crime, that client forfeits 
any right to confidenuality concerning that
crime. I cant see why a lawyer should be 
obligated to maintain a confidential trust 
when the client has in effect already betrayed 
that trust.
The ABA suggests that the attorney 
simply drop the case. That may constitute 
discharge of legal responsibilities, but what 
about moral ones? Isnt there a public trust 
involved here also? Can an attorney ethi
cally ignore the rights of victims of a crime 
perpetrated with his or her aid?
Actually, I cant condemn the ABA totally 
on this point. In a minimal concession to 
those members inclined to whine about 
responsibility to the public, the amended 
rule does allow members to unseal their lips 
in instances in which death or substantial 
bodily harm is imminent. Damned gener
ous of them.
But wait. There are two other teensy
Try to tolerate others, N ate says
By Nate Solano
We had joy, we had fun, we had seasons in 
the sun . . .
I trust your Valentines Day was wonder
ful and you overcame the 2:1 male to female/
tatio here to find that very spe
cial love of your life.
This week was fairly uneventlul with the only real news being 
tliat an increase in the activities fee was voted 
down; thus, all student organizations may 
be forced to cut back operations by approxi
mately 5%. (The Treasurer says that no 
major effects will be felt except that Friday 
and Saturday movies will consist of only 
The Blob and Godzilla series.)
For those of you interested in what 
became of the student affairs vote in Senate, 
the motion has been tabled (this means that 
it has been put on a shelf until someone gets 
brave enough to take it off.) Ill keep you 
informed.
Back to Valentines Day. I realize that it 
was yesterday, but this is the closest issue to it 
so lets pretend. Not to be sentimental or 
anything, but it would be nice if you would 
try to tolerate other humans today. Forget 
that he or she scored higher on his or her 
SATs than you did. Put aside your differen
ces and try not to call anyone a sh*thead 
(Tartan spelling.) I dont really think that 
Im asking too much, certainly not that you
LetterQuestionnaires ready
Editor
This week, questionnaires about teaching 
at CMU will be distributed to dorm resi
dents through their Resident Assistants and 
fraternity members through their presi
dents. The questionnaires ask students to 
identify the professors from whom they 
learned the most, the elective and required 
courses in which they learned the most, and 
the characteristics of courses in which they 
learned relatively little.
In each case, the questionnaire asks 
respondents to give particulars so that the 
Teaching Center can develop profiles of 
excellent teachers and courses. Responses 
ftifl be collected by RAs and fratemitv offi
cials. The results will be tabulated by the 
staff of the Teaching Center.
Articles about what the staff discovers will 
appear in The Tartan. The information we 
gather will also be used by the Center and by 
deans and department heads to improve 
instruction throughout the university.
If you do not receive a questionnaire, you. 
can obtain one from the secretary in your 
departmental office. Please return question
naires to the secretary or drop them in cam
pus mail addressed to me.
Edwin Fenton, director 
The University Teaching Center 
228A Baker Hall
love everyone (although that would be 
optimal), just that you tolerate them. This 
goes for everyone, students, faculty, and 
administration. We all mean well, were just 
mislead.
Dear Nate,
Do you have any idea of what Emperor 
Caligula Caesar would have given his sister 
for St. Valentines Day?
Love,
Franklin P. Reese III 
(Formerly a real bad person but now com
pletely reformed, just ask Gerry Marks.) 
Dear Frank,
The Big Oh!
Office hours this week (and Ill even try to 
make them) are Wednesday from 4:30 to6:00 
pm and Thursday from 7:00 to 9:00 pm.
If you can make it, David Withrow (per
cussion major) is having a recital tomorrow 
night in the ACH. Its going to be great, so 
make it if you can.
NEXT WEEK: The birth of Monroeville 
Mall
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of indwidual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters to the editor are opinions of indii'idual authors 
who are usually members of the I'niirrsity 
community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone 
number for i<erifnation. Xatnes will be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan resen es the right to condense or 
^ejeiiJin^lftttrr^^ , , v 
weensy exceptions to what amounts 
nearly total gag rule. Attorneys can alsospi 
the beans in order to collect their fees andi 
protect themselves in malpractice 
They certainly seem to have their prioriti 
straight.
Fortunately, the ABA ethics code, even 
approved, carries no legal weight. But it w 
serve as a model for the bodies that do s 
binding disciplinary rules for la wye 
Thats depressing enough.
I can only hope that those bodies take 
appropriately dim view of the ABA's id 
the ethics of confidentiality. Theres a 
more to legal ethics than protecdng on 
own rear end. While appreciating the sen 
ment, I think most people expect the pra 
tioners of a profession with such pretensio 
of nobility to make a more strenuo 
attempt to live up to that image.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student 
Applied History and is a columnist fori 
Tartan.
Thelart*
Editor in Chief......................................Monica Cel
Managing Editor.....................................Gregg 1
Business Manager................................ Kathy W*
News Editor...................................Joanne Savii
Features Editor..............................Pauline Krafl
Entertainment Editor.........................Susan ft*
Sports Editor...................................................Jeff 1
Photography Editor...........................Steve Win
Production Manager................Carolyn Spe$
Ad Manager...........................................Bonnie ft
Typesetting Manager............................Patti Cad
Art Director...................................Michael Suss
Contributing Editors............................Alice Aft
Vince Guii 
Louise Cn*
Assoc Ent. Editor..................................John C3"'
Assistant Business Mgr................................Tara
Assistant News Editors.....................Chris John*1
Pauline'
Asst Features Editor..........................Monica &
Asst Sports Editor.....................................Ric ^
Asst. Photo Editor.................................
Asst Production Mgr.....................................Peter
Production Staff: Susan Bossi, Margaret 
Esther Filderman, Andrew Ghali.
Copyright c 1988 by The Tartan. Ihe Edit01*3! 
reserves the right to withhold from |>ublitat . 
copy it deems unfit for publication Editona* 
Skibo 50. (112) 578-2111. Business Offux-s: Ski 
(412) 578-2112. 2-1 hour phone. (412) 578-211**' 
address: Box 17. Srhenlev Park, Pittsbiiigh P^ 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1983The TartanPage 3
Computers and people
Snow inspires thoughts
By Orpheus Allison
Now I see the students with their sleds. 
Converted from the trays of food service, the 
yS are providing another outlet in which
students can put their tired but resdess 
energies.
What a way to spend such a 
night, the sound of Irish folk
songs filtering through the air; 
leds slipping along the slopes of water. A 
oft light from the street lamps, what a 
ight.
Only a few of the flakes from this momg air still drifting by. Softly, as down from 
/iother Goose, these flakes fall to give a new 
eaning to the phrase Pristine Beauty.
I remember the fun I had sliding down 
slope. What joy it was as my friends and 
went down the slopes in our sleds. Jumpg over the piles of snow, hurtling past 
ch other in our races down the hill. And 
enerally scaring the wits out of our 
achers. What rascals we were.
Oh hush. Yes I realize that this has little if 
ny bearing on major topics of the day. 
lowever, I feel that there was a reprieve 
eeded. Until just now.
I realize that many of you biological 
jects feel that computers can not become 
arents, surrogate or otherwise. Yet, the 
me was said about television; and in cerin unenlightened circles, television is used 
a parent because there is no one willing to 
ke the responsibility of raising their childII in a humanistic fashion. It would also be 
ice if we could count on the good will of 
e administration to stop trying to remove 
ur parents.
However, this is not possible. The Topspersonalities that exist in the cube are 
ncapable of approaching life in a wholistic 
shion. They, Provosts, Veeps, and Pres., 
square thinkers. All of their thinking is 
bne through linear progression. If a point 
vill not fit their flat curve, then they ignore 
no matter how crucial it is to understand 
hat new view.
However, not all of the Tops-A people are 
quares. Some of them do care about educatng the students. Some of them are attempt
ing to find out how to improve teaching 
ere. And this is admirable. This is the one 
ure way for the school to remove its image 
>f a computer nanny.
Noughts on trees
Perhaps in the long run, humanity will 
be molecularized by this new force called 
technology. It has happened before. All of 
the technocrats have created more and more 
ways of killing those who are human. And 
as always, there has been a group of huma
nists who fought back. They have left us 
with such works as The Republic, The Con
stitution of the United States of America, 
Shakespeare, Pope, Christ, Mohammed, 
and ethics.
This paper started out as a nice pleasent 
respite from the same old garbage of the 
coldness of the administration. However, I 
see that even members of the student body 
are having their brains radiated out of their 
skulls and replaced by super-cooled, calcu
lating, machines.
There goes the last snowflake. It is peace
ful now. One last student goes down the 
slope for one last time tonight. A few foot
prints are all that are left of the revelry from 
tonight. Tomorrow, a new dawn and a new 
day.
Orpheus Allison is a freshman in H&SS 
and is a columnist for The Tartan.
I'ill
Th eNweeTspa
TriE BLIZZARDOF I9 3
Romantic considers ideas of love
By Christopher Johnston
Christian legend has it that on February 
14, 246, a guy named Valentine who had 
been imprisoned for healing the sick (and 
other seditious martyr-like activities) 
restored sight to his jailors 
blind daughter and was 
prompdy bludgeoned to death. 
III! As a result, he became the patron 
saint of lovers and epileptics. I see the 
relationship between the two subjects, since 
theyre nearly synonymous, but how 
Valentine got the honor, I dont know.
What I do know is that the idea of love has 
permeated our society to the extent that on 
this single day every year, people who love 
each other (and more particularly people 
who couple this emotion with sexual 
arousal) decide to show it. Why not5 Its only 
one day a year.
But since they find it hard to define the 
emotion, they instead describe it through 
analogy. For example, Oh dear, I love you.
Grounds workers competent
Editor:
I am writing in response to the Bob Engsh article in the February 8th issue of the 
artan, Careless actions are killing our
ees.
I would like to point out to Mr. English 
lat the CMU grounds department is a 
nowledgeable and professional organizaon. We have in our organization, individuwith the technical expertise in 
orticultural and foresting services, landsping design, and dendrochronology, 
urther, we have employees with EPA comercial licensing in herbicide and pesticide 
eatment and several qualified arborists. 
dditionally, every member or our departent is required to attend training sessions 
horticulture.
As for the concern of Mr. English that the 
mpus trees are not being maintained 
roperly, we are following the approved 
nd prescribed methods as established by the 
^erican Arborists Society.
In regard to the original trees planted at 
Earner Hall and Skibo, these trees were 
laced on a scheduled watering and fertilizaon program, rhe loss of these trees was for 
asons other than lack of water. Mr. Eng
lish fails to recognize that the second plant
ing of trees has established with a zero 
mortality rate and with the identical water
ing and fertilization program that was app
lied to the original groups of trees.
As regards our pruning program, I wish 
to point out that trees are pruned and 
thinned for numerous reasons, among 
which are beauty, structure, shape, domestic 
requirements, and health. Each year during 
the fall and winter months we put forth a 
concerted effort to prune the ornamental 
trees of the campus, such as the Crab apple 
and Kwanzan in order to maintain healthy, 
productive, and visually attractive trees. The 
method of pruning during the winter 
months affords the trees ample time to pro
duce new growth and a healthy display of 
flowers and fruit in the spring.
I appreciate Mr. Englishs concern with 
the appearance of CMU, and assure you that 
the landscape of the University is being 
maintained in a proper and professional 
manner.
J.W. Greenway 
Manager, Buildings and Grounds 
R. Ezatoff
Foreman Grounds and T ransportation1 - *
Yes, I love you. I think of flowers, and 
hearts, and yellow ribbons, and heavily 
armed naked babies with wings, and the 
way you move, and the way you look at me 
when I have may hands down your pants, 
and other such vomit inducing turns of 
phrase.
As a result, I have decided to give an easy 
definition of Love for those who want to 
keep a sensible head on their shoulders 
during this pathetic holiday. This 
definition is applicable throughout the 
entire year.
The emotion known as love is several 
things. First, the foresaking of concern of 
ones own existence for anothers. The 
vicarious feeling of darkness that Valentine 
might have felt for the blind litde girl thus 
forgetting about his own dismal situation 
could be construed as love. Littie does he 
know that her added perception probably 
only added to her mirth at seeing him beaten 
about the head and shoulders, but it 
probably made him feel good to help her 
out.
This is another important aspect of love. 
The fusing of presence of that persons 
consciousness into ones own well-being 
causes one to want to see the other person 
happy and to be a catalyst to said happiness. 
If the little girl had felt love for Valentine, 
she might have consoled him with witty 
comments about joining the club and 
him giving her his heart, or instructed 
him on the benefits of phrenology, or even 
offered sound assurance that his battered 
and broken body would be properly 
interred.
Unfortunately, love is usually defined 
most clearly by its absence. If love is rejected, 
or some event occurs that denies the object of 
affection, the resulting distraught
disorientation is a sensible sign of how' 
much that person was loved. Had the litde 
girl truly loved Valentine, she might have 
experienced depression, looked to alcohol as 
a salve, or even considered a life of 
prostitution.
Love comes in varying degrees. From a 
casual acquaintance toward whom one has 
positive emotions, to an intense relationship 
often coupled with the sex act. Although 
some may disagree, I think conjugal love 
relationships tend to be the most intense erf 
loves, perhaps because when a couple is 
mixing their privates together, their minds 
often experience a relationship equally as 
personal. Of course, it could be argued that 
this type of love is nothing more than an 
intellectualization of the sex act.
Despite the torrid rumors that were flying 
around at the time, I seriously doubt 
whether Valentine and the young child had 
this kind of love relationship together. After 
all, the Catholic Church only martyrs 
virgins, or so were told. Plus the fact that the 
little girl couldnt see two feet in front of her, 
so she was probably more concerned with 
her everyday problems of existence than 
whether or not she was in love with a sneaky 
old lecher. Still, child molesting would be a 
logical reason why her father might have 
want to kill Valentine, and Ive noticed 
through faith healing on TV that people 
who do that tend to get rather personal with 
where they place their hands.
You can contemplate this interesting 
enigma with the one you love. Im sure it 
will be much more interesting than 
slobbering all over each other like a couple 
of face-sucking anteaters, dont you?
Christopher Johnston ts a sophomore in 
creative writing and is Assistant Neu>s 
Editor for The Tartan.
Blair says get involved
Editor:
In about every third Tartan there appears 
a letter from some poor, tormented soul who 
can no longer bear the pain inflicted on him 
by the tripe that The Tartan serves up. Last 
week Mr. Ward Travis added his name to 
that growing list of (to coin a phrase) seedy 
malcontents. I wont waste time and space 
by debating the issues here; 1 only want to 
,fesk a,qufis*if)n. ,
Why the hell dont you get involved?
If you want to change something in the 
paper, one letter to the editor wont do it. 
There is no barrier to your participation, 
Mr. Travis, other than your apathy.
Its easy to sit back, you and your sharp 
wit, and take a few pot shotvat the paper; I 
guess its too much to ask that you help the 
people who produce it.
* i In >,/i S < Doug Blair

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 15, 1983
Sororities negotiate contracts with the Housing Off ice
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffwriter
Plans are in the making that will change 
the housing status of the sororities and will 
result in an arrangement similar to that 
between the Housing Office and the 
fraternities.
The existing arrangement requires 
members of a sorority, who want to live in 
the sorority house, sign individual contracts 
with the Housing Office. This posed a few 
problems, as there is a price discrepancy 
between a room in one of the dormitories 
and a room in one of the sororities.
Tony Martin, Housing director, 
explained individual housing costs are com
puted by adding the total projected utility 
maintenance and staffing costs, and the 
existing debts of the residence halls and div
iding by the total number of students taking 
part in the Housing program. Slight varian
ces in cost are attributed to the desirability of 
the apartment, thus a single with a private
bath will cost more than a triple with a 
public bath.
According to Martin, this cost determin
ing process was adversely affecting sorority 
housing on Margaret Morrison Street. The 
buildings they occupy, being the newest, 
have a greater debt than the other housing 
facilities which adds to the housing cost. 
Also, women in the sororities, by signing 
individual contracts, are being charged for 
benefits which they dont receive, like Resi
dent Advisors and maintenance work. Once 
all costs were computed, prices for rooms in 
the sorority houses exceded prices for dorm 
rooms. As a result, sororities were having a 
difficult time filling their houses.
Under the new arrangement, which is 
similar in most respects to the one held with 
the fraternities, housing will treat the sorori
ties as units, signing leases with each indi
vidual sorority rather than each sorority 
member. Under the lease, the sororities, like 
the fraternities, will pay only for those servi
ces which they receive. The main difference 
between the fraternity and sorority arrange
ments will be a built-in provision for main
tenance capital in the sorority lease. This 
capital will be used to cover any mainte
nance repairs not taken care of by the 
university.
When asked why the sorority arrange
ment hadnt evolved sooner, Martin stated 
there were problems with the frat arrange
ment stemming from the absense of a main
tenance provision that made Housing wary
of entering into a similar arrangement 
the sororities. Martin said he believed the 
problems will be corrected with the neii 
arrangement.
Details of the arrangement should ^ 
worked out in the next few months, possib] 
by room selection in mid-March. Martin 
commented the price changes should 
the sorority rooms more attractive and in0re 
accessable to members who didnt wanttoot 
couldnt pay the high cost of living in ^ 
sorority.
Music education reinstated
Photo by Scott Safier
Student senate chair Alexandra Kavoulakis votes on the referendum to raise the activities fee. 
A Phi O member Linda Masi helps with the election.
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffurriter
The music department has reversed its 
decision to phase out the music education 
degree program, due to a projected need for 
quality teachers.
Music department head Harry Franklin 
stated the decision to stop accepting students 
was made about five years ago, when the 
school, and university in general, considered 
itself a professional school, geared toward 
producing doers in a particular area rather
Fee vote fails
The referendum held last week to raise the 
activities fee from $50 to $70 per year was 
defeated. Of the student population, 8.6% 
voted with 177 voting for the increase and 
256 against.
Mark Caine, student senate treasurer, said 
that he may ask all organizations to cut their 
budget by 5%. Organizations should be 
prepared to cut an additional 5% if 
necessary.
According to Caine, these reductions are 
to insure that there is enough money for 
new organizations.
than teachers.
Since that time, said Franklin, there 
have been repeated requests from alumni i 
the field to re-institute the program. This 
coupled with the fact a recent study of demo, 
graphics shows a projected need for music 
teachers as well as teachers in all areas, influ. 
enced the departments decision to restart 
the program.
The fact is the quality of music teachers 
really should be improved upon, and it is 
this qualitative as well as quantitative need 
that had a great deal of influence on the 
decision to go back into the program, said 
Franklin.
The program itself remains basically 
unchanged. Students will spend four yean 
earning an undergraduate degree in perfor
mance and then continue for one additional 
year to obtain an undergraduate music edu
cation degree. The program will be open to 
students from other schools who fulfill thfl 
necessary requirements.
What we aim to do is simply re-begii 
our sending out into the profession first 
class teachers. We thereby hope to play oui 
role in helping to improve the quality oi 
music teaching, observed Franklin.
Do we need a Student Union?
We would like your help in researching the 
possibility of getting a Student Union. Please 
answer the questions below and return the 
form to The Tartan, Room 50 Skibo, by Friday, 
February 25. We will compile the results and 
report on them in a future issue.
1. What do you like about Skibo as it is now?
2. What do you dislike about Skibo?
3. Would you like to remodel Skibo, build a
new Student Union, or leave things as they 
are?_________________________________
4. What would you like to see built into a
future Student Union?__________________
5. What don't you want in a future Student 
Union?______________________________
6. Is Skibo a good site for a Student Union? If
not, where can a new union be built?____
7. How much do you think a new Student
Union would cost?____________________
8. How do you think a new Student Union
could be paid for?_____________________
9. How much extra in tuition per year wouldyou be willing to pay for a new Student 
Union?_____________________________
If you have any designs or ideas for the Stu
dent Union, no matter how incomplete or 
detailed they are, please submit them with 
the survey.
(Optional):
Name______________________________
Phone______________________________-
Thank you for your cooperation.

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1983The TartanPage 5
ff-campus housing
esidents comment on rooms
PAULINE WEN
rtan Assistant News Editor
Though comments about CMU offmpus housing included* Off-campus 
using sucks! and though it has beendesbed as full of rats and roaches and a 
thole, students mentioned many advanges to living off-campus.
The larger amount of space was menned several times, and students also seemed 
appreciate living off campus in an apartent as opposed to a dorm. Another advange mentioned was the apartments were a 
t quieter; therefore, more studying could 
accomplished. Most students didnt mind 
e possible danger of living on Centre 
venue and outside of the CMU campus. 
In the last two years, CMU has leased six 
rtments: Louisa Street, Carol Apartents, Tudor Apartment, Hampshire Hall, 
dyside Apartments, and the Shirley 
partments. The Shadyside Apartment, 
rol Apartment, Tudor Apartments and 
ampshire Hall are all located on Centre 
venue. Louisa Street is located on Louisa 
treet in Oakland, near Pitt. The Shirley 
partments are located on Dithridge Street, 
ear Tiffanys in Oakland.
Most of the freshmen were given offmpus housing because they applied late 
r housing. The upperclassmen in offlpus housing are there either because of the 
tery or because they had wanted to live 
off-campus housing at the end of the 
revious school year.
Transportation to the apartments is proided by CMU. On weekdays, a shutde runs 
sically every thirty minutes from Skibo 
rting at 6:45 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. This1 route 
vers Shirley, Hampshire, Tudor/Carol, 
nd Shadyside. At 6:45 p.m. a shuttle runs 
ery 45 minutes with the last shutde leavg Skibo at 11:15 p.m. and getting to Shadside at approximately 11:35 p.m. This
route covers Louisa, Shirley, Hampshire, 
Tudor/Carol and Shadyside.
On weekends, a shuttle runs every 45 min
utes from 11:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. The shut
tle covers all the apartments. There are few 
breaks in this schedule as there are in the 
weekday schedule. The complete schedule is 
available at the Skibo Information Desk.
According to Housing, Louisa Street will 
not be available for students next year. 
Louisa street did not get favorable comments 
from some of its residents. It was described as 
a dump, and a former resident described 
Louisa as constantly breaking down and 
falling apart.
Instead of Louisa Street, Housing will 
lease the Marybelle Apartments on Fifth 
Avenue, across from WQED. The Marybelle 
Apartments will have eighteen efficiencies 
for two people each.
Housing also said a brochure about offcampus housing facilities should be availa
ble some time in the next ten days in the 
Housing office.
Steve Winawer, a freshman in MCS, says 
he likes Shirley and will live there again 
next year. I dont see moving on campus to 
give up what I have, Winawer explained. 
He enjoyed the amount of room he had and 
the different feeling of going back to an 
apartment room rather than a dorm room. 
The Shirley Apartments have triples and 
one efficiency.
Hampshire Hall has fifty singles and 
four efficiency apartments. Marianne 
Healy, a junior in design, says she likes liv
ing off campus. I feel like a real person, 
she said. However, Healy says she will not 
live in Hampshire Hall again next year, and 
hopes to get a non-university apartment. If 
not for the Housing contract, she would 
move out of Hampshire Hall this semester. 
She described life in Hampshire Hall as too 
quiet and depressing and said she didnt
'gliest Man raises money
A Phi Os Ugliest Man on Campus 
ontest will be held on March 2 and 3 this
ear.
Each campus organization is invited to 
ominate a candidate. Entries in the past 
ave ranged from creative make-up jobs to 
st years entry of TOPS-E.
This years UMOC chair, Jill Tabor, said 
at pictures are being scheduled now. 
rganizations should send her their nomiations and A Phi O will arrange for the
ictures.
Voting is done by cash donations. All of
the pictures are displayed in front of 
Doherty Hall  weather permitting, if not
 in Skibo and voters indicate their choices, 
a penny a vote. Stuffing the ballot is wel
come. This year the proceeds will be 
donated to St. Judes Childrens Hospital.
Last year over $400 was raised. Delta Tau 
Delta had the winning entry with a $380 
total donation. DTD has won for at least the 
past 12 years. There is no cost to enter, and 
prizes will be awarded for first, second, and 
third places. Contact Jill, x4591, if 
interested.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oi. cans (& quarts) 
STROHSLOWENBRAU Lt.. Dk bottles
MICHELOB
BUDWEISER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLAN6ER-bottles 
GENESSEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHUTZ
PEARL (Te*oj)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIEIS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE-bottles 
COLT <5 
MILLER LITE MICHELOB DTE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
.IV
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beef  Tuna  Turkey
SANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sausage 
Veal  Chuck  Chicken Parmeson
SPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice ol 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3 am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICESServing beer Sunday 1 pm 2 am Imports, Cans. Quarts, Draft Pitchers Mugs Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oi 6 pk 
featured eoch weekSTROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BICK'S It Ok -Gormony 
IASS AU - Enand 
HARP lAGIH-lrttond 
M(X SOM GOt Df N Conodo 
HflMKEN It Dk -HoMond 
lOWIMWAU-Germon
0 IH ALI  Conodo 
PIlSNHt URQUIll  Citi 
KIRIN-Japon
MACKESSON ST0UT - li elond 
010 VIINNA LAG - Conodo 
S5 LAGConodo
ST PAUll GIRL Gormony 
DOS IQUIS XX Mexico 
JOHN C0URAGIIngland 
WATNITS  tnalond 
CARLSBERG ILIPHANT Den 
CARLSMRG ROYAL! Donmork 
CARlSKHG DARK Otnmork 
TStNGTAO - Chmo 
HACKIR PSCM0RK - Gormony 
LABATTS Conodo 
MURPHY - Ireland 
C00PIR A SON - Austrolio 
I0STIR S LAG Austrolio
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC
Open 
9om-3:45om Sun-Thurs 
9om-4:45am Fri-Sot 
_ Coll 621 7388 or 6211185 
3901 Forbes Ave (Ooklond) 
Pgh . PA 15213
Photo by Eric Gohr
Peter Corless works on an Origins paper in his room in the Shirley Apartments.
like living alone. She did not recommend 
Hampshire Hall unless one wanted 
isolation.
Healy also said the apartment was expen
sive. Previous to living at Hampshire, she 
lived in Morewood, and moved to Hamp
shire to get away from CMU.
Compared to the Louisa Apartments, 
where he lived his freshman year, Craig 
Niiya, a sophomore MechE, likes the Carol 
Apartments. There are better conditions at 
Carol, he said. Rooms at Carol are smaller 
but more modem; they are also more expen
sive than the Louisa Apartments. Niiya also 
said he will probably move nearer to cam
pus next year. The Carol Apartments have 
22 triples.
Joel Parker, a sophomore ChemE, moved 
to Tudor last year because erf the lottery. His 
choices were either the Tudor or Carol 
Apartments. The only advantage of the 
Tudor Apartments is there is more room, 
said Parker. He also commented there were 
numerous maintenance problems, which 
took a long time to repair. Tudor has eight 
triples and eleven efficiencies.
Sophomore Chris OMara moved to the 
Shadyside Apartments from McGill because 
he didnt like the [people] on campus. 
OMara said he likes Shadyside and will 
probably room there again next year. Shady
side is noisy, he said, but there is a lot of 
room. Shadyside consists of seventeen triples 
and one quad.
Choice of any Corkys 
Pan Pizza by the Slice 
with the purchase of 
a regular beverage
I _________J_CC^PON_PER^y]SIT. JXPjRES i^83l
GOING TO FLORIDA?
Two senior editors of the Yale Daily News tell you 
how to get the mostfor the leastand have the 
ultimate Florida vacation!
Includes the latest on: hotels  restaurants  bars  golf 
 tennis  cops  gay/straight areas  where to strike 
up liaisons with easy-to-follow maps that tell where
and what the action is 
^  much, much more
THE
gP,v
SPRING1
ASrudenrsGuideto 
Spring Break in Florida
Druce Jacobsen and Rodin Riggs
$4 95, paperback 1^
PRIAM DOOKSA division ol Arfxx House

---------------------------------------------------

The Sixth Annual Business Conference Sponsored by the Student Alumni Relations Council of CMU
Issues in Business Today
ECONOMIC RECOVERY:
The Future of Business
Saturday, March 5,1983
The Camegie-Mellon University Student Alumni Relations 
Council's Issues in Business Today annual business 
conference challenges participants to focus on pertinent 
issues directly relating to business and industry. Guest 
speakers will address the issues of economic recovery and the 
future of business in relation to technology. Businesses all 
over the world are faced with an unlimited range of choices: 
should established methods and procedures be maintained or 
abandoned; should undiscovered or extraneous technologies
be explored; should changed be resisted; or should established 
methods which are under challenge be integrated with new 
methods?
Students, alumni, faculty and friends are invited to interact, 
react and exchange ideas during what promises to be a most 
informative day of seminars. A panel discussion featuring the 
guest speakers will follow the individual presentations. 
Please join us.
The Program
A Business Conference Sponsored by the 
CMU Student Alumni Relations
Time
8:30-9:15 AM 
915-930 AM 
930-10:30 AM
10:20-11:00 AM
11:10-11:50 AM
11:50-1.-00 PM
1:00-1:40 PM
1:50-2:30 PM
2:30-3:30 PM 
3:30-4-00 PM
Topic
Registration 
and Coffee
Introduction
Human Relations 
in a Technical 
Environment
Customer Service 
Oriented Companies 
Lead to Recovery
Manufacturing
Modernization
Break  Cafeteria 
Services Available 
in the Building
R&D: A Longer 
View is Needed
A Perspective of the 
Changing Scrap Metal 
Industry and its Out
look for the Future
Panel Discussion
Reception
Registration will be held in the 
Skibo Lobby and all sessions will be 
held in the Skibo Ballroom.
Speaker
Linda Evans S85 
Alan Biddison HS86
Hans Lange E52, 
Vice President,
AMF Inc.
David Schmid E39, 
COB and President, 
Techaljoy Co., Inc.
Robert McKee E48, 
General Manufac
turing Manager, 
Chevrolet Motor 
Division, General 
Motors Corp.
Charles Parry, 
President, 
Aluminum Co. 
of America
Albert Wein E47 
President and CEO, 
Steel me t, Inc.
The Speakers
Hans Lange graduated from Camegie-Mellon University in 1952 with a 
B.S in Metallurgical Engineering, and from Harvard in 1956 with an 
MBA. Mr. Lange is presently Vice President and Group Executive of AMF 
Incorporated. He is President of the Alumni Association and a member of 
the Board of Trustees of CMU. He is also director of Technicorp, Intl. and 
PIVOT.
Robert McKee graduated from Camegie-Mellon University in 1948 with a 
B.S. in Mechanical Engineering and in 1953 from the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration. He also received a Sloan fellowship to Stan
ford University in 1962. In September, 1976, Mr. McKee was appointed 
General Manufacturing Manager of the Chevrolet Motor Division of 
General Motors. He serves on the Sloan Advisory Board, Stanford Gradu
ate School of Business.
Charles Parry graduated from the University of Pittsburgh with a B.S. in 
Electrical Engineering in 1948 and then went to work for the Aluminum 
Company of America. Mr. Parry was elected President of ALCOA in 1981. 
He is a member of the Board of Trustees of Camegie-Mellon University, 
Carlow College, Mercy Hospital, and the Pittsburgh Symphony Society.
David Schmid graduated from Camegie-Mellon University with a B.S. in 
Management Engineering in 1939. Mr. Schmid is founder and President, 
Chairman of the Board and Treasurer of Techalloy Company, Incorpo
rated. He is a member erf the Board of Trustees of CMU and Ursinus 
College, and a director erf Copperweld Corp. and Goodwill Industries.
Albert Wein graduated from Camegie-Mellon University in 1947 with a 
B.S. degree in Metallurgical Engineering. After working for 11 years at 
Tube City Iron and Metal Company, Mr. Wein joined Steelmet Incorpo
rated in 1961. He is currently President and Chief Executive Officer of 
Steelmet.
Please detach and mail along with your check made payable to: CMU Alumni Association, 
5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. No refunds made after the reservation deadline, 
Tuesday, March 1. No phone reservations please. Fee does not include lunch.
Name
Address
Class Code 
Zip_______
Daytime phone 
Name of guests
Year/Dept, (if student)
If you would like to sponsor a student, please add $2.00
Full-time student $2.00 
(present I.D. at registration)Amount enclosed $All others $25.00Amount enclosed $
Limited seating available

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1983The TartanPage 7
technology will be needed to rebuild infrastructure
[ntinued from page 1
He believes some problems in the field 
[day result from the mandatory' separation 
design from construction in government
t
ojects, creating a tremendous disconti,ity in the process.
Special problems in civil engineering 
[elude the impracticality of full-scale modthe expectation bridges never fail, and 
[e question of what the ^signed lives of 
bmponents and levels of safety ought to be. 
Gustav Lindenthal, when he designed the 
hiithfield Street Bridge in 1886, certainly 
didnt have expected the bridge would be 
earing its 100th year.
Due to the increasing problems resulting 
om the decay in the infrastructure, Fenves
spoke of possible changes in financing 
including putting nadonal capital construc
tion into an organized form rather than the 
present system of pork barrels. He also 
suggested innovative financing is needed, 
such as the conversion of public structures 
into private, toll colecting structures. He 
recommends granting design and construc
tion contracts in one package and says speci
fications need to be stated in terms of 
performance rather fthan stringent rules of 
allowable procedures.
A tremendous need is in research and 
experimendng to determine levels of dura
bility and reliability, efficient dissemination 
of knowledge, and especially alternate 
methods and materials. He also believes 
there is a very important need for engineers
}artin explains room draw
Photb yJnSi
arton Staffwnter
We are trying hard to keep costs down, 
iys Anthony Martin, director of Housing, 
lthough next years increase will be about 
leven percent, it is less than tuitions 19% 
Ise, as Martin will quickly point out. But 
Rousing is a good deal, he claims, comared to living in the private sector.
The room draw procedure, outlined in 
lie Residence Halls Handbook 1982-1983, 
\e basically the same as last years. To be 
ligible requires a one hundred dollar depsit by February 24, payable to the Cashiers 
[>ffice. The room rates for next year have not 
?t been finalized.
Last year, with the expectation of a housig shortage, the office created the Housing 
xittery, which was just that: gambling for 
K)ms. This year, although the demand is the 
ame, there is no fear of shortage, making it 
he room reservation process.
Housing cannot guarantee assignments 
to residents missing the deposit deadline, 
explained Martin, but all current residents 
may remain if they choose, and all freshmen 
will be offered on-campus housing. Due to 
last years shortage, the addition of several 
hundred off-campus units has made up for 
over-demand. These units, along with regu
lar attrition, will leave many vacancies for 
next year, as they did this year.
Housings first job is to determine 
demand. Once this is accomplished, 
room-by-room assignment will be made by 
the seniority of students choices. We want 
to offer students alternatives, as Martin 
pointed out, but not everyone will be able to 
get exactly what they want.
CMU housing costs are no more than the 
average of comparable institutions, accord
ing to Martin. Other schools subsidize tui
tion with housing income and use tuition continued on page 8
to become involved in design of policies 
relating to the infrastructure as legislatures 
diemselves.
Next the professor stressed the consequen
ces of delayed maintenance and showed data 
indicating this country requires about 900 
billion dollars annual spending on the 
infrastructure while actual spending is about 
54 billion. He pointed out the replacement 
rate of bridges translates into a 275-year 
replacement' interval contrasted to the 
empirical evidence that the life of a bridge is 
something like 50 years.
Fenves explained the public sector inter
acts with the infrastructure in three ways: 
expectations, resources and constraints. He 
noted expectations and constraints change 
over time, for example, highway beautifica
tion and safety received greater priority dur
ing the 1960s. He added that changes in 
expectations are more often brought about 
by disasters such as dam breaks, rather than 
smoother, more sensible planning.
According to Fenves, federal funding allo
cation plans are often counter-productive. 
Federal plans encourage lack of spending on
maintenance resulting in horrendous con
sequences since money is often put into 
interstate construction where the feds con
tribute nine dollars for every dollar paid 
locally.
In addition, Fenves believes an attitude 
change is needed in the profession, citing 
the bigger is better mentality is still very 
much in the psyche of the civil engineer. He 
closed by saying, I didnt promise any solu
tions but hope you go away understanding 
the situation a little better.
Fenves, a survivor of Nazi persecution, 
was bom in 1931 in Subotica, Yugoslavia, 
and became a naturalized American citizen 
in 1951. He received his bachelors, masters, 
and Ph.D. from the University of Illinois 
and has taught at Illinois, M.I.T., the 
National University of Mexico, Cornell 
University, and most recently, since 1971, at 
Camegie-Mellon University. Fenves has 
received many honors, including the presti
gious Walter L. Huber Research Award in 
1965 and the Pittsburgh Professor of the 
Year Award for 1981 from the American 
Society of Civil Engineers, and is the author 
of four books and 120 publications.
Campus power interrupted
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The electrical power for part of the cam
pus was interrupted on the evening of Sun
day, February 6. Power was restored about 
two hours later in all areas except the Mar
garet Morrison apartment complex, where 
it was restored the next afternoon.
Mike Murphy, Housing Office coordina
tor for the Hill area, said there was little 
inconvenience to the Margaret Morrison res
idents. They were offered flashlights, so
there was no major problem except for their 
food spoiling in refrigerators, but most resi
dents just put their food outside, since the 
temperature was 25 degrees. He went on to 
say the major inconvenience was studying 
Sunday night.
Bill Boyle, Physical Plant electrical fore
man, stated the problem was an under
ground power break. I have the problem 
narrowed down and should have the origi
nal line fixed by the end of this week. Right 
now the powers running through another 
line thats kind of like a spare tire.
AB Lectures
regrets to announce that 
due to circumstances 
beyond our control
The MB A Handbook
lecture
scheduled for
Wed. Feb. 16 
has been cancelled.
U
HERFF JONES CHALLENGES HIGH 
GOLD COST !... AND YOU WIN !
SAVE NOW ON GOLD RINGS !
Men's Ring $ 25.00Ladies'Savings Ring $ Editt Savings
GOLD FOR THIS ORDER RESERVED BEFORE CURRENT MARKET INCREASE
Date: Wednesday, Feb. 16
Thursday, Feb. 17 
Place; Baker Hall
Time: 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Both Days
Deposit Required:15.009
HERFF JONESDivino* of Carnation Company

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 15, 1983
Juniors plan intrac/ass activities, luncheons with facuk
By JEFFREY LINK 
and LEILA ABDU
Special to The Tartan
A committee of juniors has been meeting 
to discuss how to cultivate the interests and 
needs of the junior class. Dean Brad Walter 
and Dean Lois Cox, as sponsors, feel that 
although departmental identity is strong, a 
general cohesiveness among the members of 
the junior class itself does not exist. The 
committee hopes to fill this void by promot
ing interaction among juniors in different 
departments and by creating a better work
ing relationship between faculty and 
students.
Several projects have already been pro
posed.
March 1 through March 5 will be 
Take-a-Faculty-to-Lunch Week. Sign-up 
sheets will be passed around various junior 
classrooms, so students can sign up for 
lunch with the professors of their choice. 
The luncheons, which will be held at local 
restaurants, will each consist of approxi
mately ten students. The lunch will be spon
sored by Student Affairs and transportation 
will be arranged.
Also, a campus-wide sledding extrava
ganza will soon take place on Flagstaff Hill. 
Hot chocolate will be served and sleds 
provided, and a Junior Class Dinner is 
planned for April, with entertainment pro
vided by CMU students, with a dance to 
follow.
The committee is comprised of the fol
lowing juniors: Leila Abdu (chairman), 
Dave Lechner, Jeffrey Link, Rhonda Mapstone, Linda Quarrie, Laura Sabadell, and
Becky Sikora. Your help is greatly nP(u 
and any suggestions you have concern! 
possible junior class projects may be senti1 
TopsA to Walter [BW02] or Cox [LCOj 
You may also call x2075 or visit the Stuck 
Affairs office in Warner Hall.
Morewood Gardens C-tower to be remodeledcontinued from page 7
for capital improvements in housing. But 
here, all moneys collected remain in the 
housing system, paying not only for leases, 
heat and maintenance, but for capital 
improvements as well.
This summer Martin expects to see addi
tional work, especially in Morewood
Gardens C-Tower. Energy conservation 
the prime reason for rebuilding, as heat 
the largest portion of the Housing b 
An energy coordinator has been hired by^ 
university to oversee such projects, and 
recommend additional savings. This, s 
Martin, has already saved the system a gr!s 
deal.
ENGINEERING 
TAKES ON EXCTTMG 
NEW DIMENSIONS 
IN THE 
AR FORCE.
engineer studying aircr; 
electrical power supply system.
Engineering opportunities in 
the Air Force include these 
eight career areas: aeronautical, 
aerospace, architectural,
Developing and managing Air Force engineering projects could 
be the most important, exciting 
challenge of your life. The 
projects extend to virtually every engineering frontier.
8 CAREER FIELDS 
FOR ENGINEERS
AIM HIGH AIRFORCE
Computer-generated design for investigating 
structural strengths and weaknesses.
astronautical, civil, 
electrical, mechanical and nuclear. Hundreds of diverse 
specialties are included in a wide 
variety of work settings. For 
example, an electrical engineer 
may work in aircraft design, space systems, power production, 
communications or research.
A mechanical engineer might be involved in aircraft structure design, space vehicle launch pad construction, or research.
PROJECT RESPONSIBILITY 
COMES EARLY 
IN THE AIR FORCE
Airforce mechanical engineer inspecting 
aircraft jet engine turbine.
Most Air Force engineers 
have complete project 
responsibility early in their careers. For example, a first lieutenant directed work on a 
new airborne electronic system 
to pinpoint radiating targets. 
Another engineer tested the jet 
engines for advanced tanker and 
cargo aircraft.
OPPORTUNITIES 
IN THE NEW 
USAF SPACE COMMAND
Artists concept of the DSCS III Defense Satellite 
Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.)
Recently, the Air Force 
formed a new Space Command.
Its role is to pull together space 
operations and research and development efforts, focusing on the unique technological needs of 
space systems.This can be your 
opportunity to join the team that 
develops superior space systems 
as the Air Force moves into the 
twenty-first century.To learn more about how you 
can be part of the team, see your Air Force recruiter or call our 
Engineer Hotline toll free 
1-800-531-5826 (in Texas call 
1-800-292-5366).Theres no 
obligation.

---------------------------------------------------

ires.___________________________________
LCFA acquires classical casts from museum in N. Y.
y LAUREN SCHNEIDER
artan Staffivriter
The College of Fine Arts recently 
cquired a number of classical museum 
sts on permanent loan from the Metropolm Museum of Art in New York. The casts, 
*~hich are actually copies made of classical 
tatues, are presently being placed in the 
iches in the main hall of the Fine Arts 
uilding.
Akram Midani, Dean of CFA, explained 
that the use of classical casts has had an 
important role in art education since the late 
19th century. Colleges of fine arts and 
schools of art established a very strong attach
ment to casts so that they could use them 
in their educational process. Schools use 
them in drawing classes to leam about 
them, to leam to decorate buildings with 
them, etc. Therefore, when this building 
was built, it was meant to have places where 
casts would be displayed in various areas, 
particularly the niches on the first floor.
Over the years, CFAs original casts were 
used up, destroyed, and disappeared, and 
only two of them remain intact today. This 
situation prompted Midani to begin a 
search to replace the casts over five years ago.
The search led to the Met after Midanis
photo by Clarke V. Simmons 
This cast is one of eight from the Met. 
request was turned down at Carnegie Insti
tute here in Pittsburgh. I talked to a col
league of mine, Frank Toker, who was a 
professor of architectural history, to see 
whether he could help me get something
from the museum because he was asked to 
survey their collection. Our discussion led to 
realizing that maybe other museums could 
be contacted, especially the Metropolitan 
Museum. I wrote a letter to the director of 
the Metropolitan, asking whether this was a 
possibility.
The response from the Met was favorable, 
and Midani traveled to their New York 
warehouses to survey the casts available. 
Many of the pieces were not in good condi
tion, but he was fortunate enough to find a 
number of casts that were both in good con
dition and suitable for the architecture of the 
Fine Arts building. The casts were then 
transported to CMU, where restoration 
work soon began.
We hired Daphne and Ralph Epstein, 
who are sculptors from Pittsburgh sug
gested to me by colleagues in the Depart
ment of Art, and sought the advice of Bob 
Taylor from the Department of Architecture 
about what to do. Since the casts come in 
several pieces, a large part of the work 
included assembling a single statue from its 
component parts. Six of the statues are fin
ished, with two or three more scheduled for 
completion in the near future.
The cast represent pieces held in various
museums worldwide, including the Met, 
the Museum of Naples in Italy, and the 
Louvre. They are not exact duplicates, 
because casts deteriorate and change over 
time, but the majority are considerably wellpreserved and provide excellent representa
tion of the classical pieces of which they are 
copies.
We ended up with two Aphrodites from 
the classical period, Midani remarked. 
They were placed on either side erf the foyer, 
which I think was quite interesting 
because they developed a balance. A cast of 
Sophocles was placed near the Drama 
Department and a Madonna and Child, in 
Midanis estimation the most beautiful 
piece, was placed near the Music Depart
ment. Another interesting cast is a lunette, a 
large crescent-shaped sculpture, which will 
be placed above the door near the Kresge 
Theater and the Alumni Concert Hall.
According to Midani, response to the 
statues has been enthusiastic. All the stu
dents were extremely happy. Some did not 
notice that they were there because they 
blended so quickly into the building. I think 
the whole movement of restoration and ren
ovation in the building has been very well 
received.
ARMCO steel rep at CMU
equipment along with two locker rooms 
and showers. A towel service and locker keys 
will be available to members. In addition, a 
stereo has been installed to provide music in 
an informal atmosphere.
Five membership plans are available 
within the club; when necessary, they have 
been prorated for this semester.
The cost of a monthly membership is $20. 
A semester membership, normally $60, will 
be $45 for the remainder of this semester.
For the academic year, the price is $100; 
for a full twelve months, the cost is $140, $60 
until the end of June of this year. Finally, a 
family membership is optional for $240. 
$100 until the end of June.
In addition, one free week at the Caber 
Club will serve as the grand opening; it will 
be announced with the opening of the store.
Additional visits, limited to approxi
mately three per person without a member
ship, will cost two dollars. Club hours will 
be from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Mondays 
through Saturdays.
By PAULA GLOGOWSKI
Special to The Tartan
Unemployment lines, idle steel mills, and 
pay cuts are becoming quite familiar to 
workers and worried graduating seniors in 
the steel center of Pittsburgh. Foreign 
imports of steel have been a major factor in 
Pittsburghs ailing economy. Steel imports 
from Japan, Europe, and developing 
nations was the topic of a presentation and 
discussion led by Steel Fellows Program 
representative Angie Carolan last Wednes
day following the regular AIESEC meeting.
As a young professional in sales at 
ARMCO steel, Carolan travels to college 
campuses, bringing to students perspectives 
on the steel industry. Within discussions 
such as the one presented, she attempts to 
clarify the problems of the industry and 
more importantly, she explains how the 
industry is handling them.
Of the problems dted at last weeks pres
entation  high labor costs, restrictions of 
the Environmental Protection Agency, tax 
laws, antiquated mills, and foreign imports 
 the last of these, imports, has created the 
most havoc in the industry. Dumping and 
subsidies have been primarily responsible 
for most problems in this area.
By underselling U.S. companies, foreign 
industries have helped to create a crisis that 
is changing forever the position of steel in 
the U.S. market. Carolan specifically 
emphasized the need for restrictions to save 
the specialty steel industry, which may be 
the only hope for the whole industry 
because of its high profit potential.
In the midst of this bleak picture, the 
industry has taken action in the form of 
negotiation and the filing of a Section 301 
with the International Trade Commission, 
citing unfair trade practices. The action, 
however, is still pending while profits are 
taking a tremendous dive.
From this explanation of industry woes, 
several questions remained, first and fore
most, Where does the future lie? Carolan 
admitted that restrictions cannot last 
forever, but they will allow time for the 
industry to get back on its feet with new 
machinery, thus enabling a fairer competi
tion with the imports.
As a follow-up question, several members 
of the audience asked, Will it ever be the 
same? Carolan expressed litde hope for 
maintaining past levels of production, but 
continued on page 10Long aweighted dub opens
photo by Clarke V. Simmons
The Caber Club, in Maigaret Morrison Plaza, is due to open this week.
The fluffy white stuffs an improvement, huh?
pnoto Dy l ouu rrario
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffivriter
The word caber denotes a traditional 
log-tossing game that originated in Scot
land. The Caber Club, a fitness club that is 
expected to open later in the week in the 
Margaret Morrison Plaza stores, has been 
named after this game to further Scottish ties 
in the University.
This new club will be open to any stu
dent, staff, or faculty member and their fami
lies; however, due to zoning laws, the club is 
limited to campus use.
According to Kathy Paczkowski, supervi
sor of the Caber Club, the idea foi the club 
originated in Auxilary Services. She stated, 
Since the weight room in the gym is mostly 
for male students, they were looking for a 
total club.
The club will contain three main types of 
equipment: Nautilus, universal, and freeweight. The clubs main purpose will be to 
accommodate differing levels of fitness by 
establishing individualized programs. 
Caber Club is set up with two floors of

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 15, 1983
SPECIAL
TECH ELECTRONICSHAMERSCHLAG NALL RM H PHONE &7I-2470
7TH YEAR ANNIVERSARY SALE
SALE STARTS FEBRUARY 11983, ENDS MARCH 11983
DISCOUNTS ON M STOCK ITEMS ONLY 
3S% OFF All VECTOR PRODUCTS M STOCK 
30%. OFF ALL POMONA CABLES M STOCK
SOX OFF ALL TUBES IN STOCK
10% OFF ALL DIODESCM SBIES) M STOCK 
7. OFF ALL TRANSISTORS C2N SERIES) M STOCK
" DOLLAR DAYS " ANNIVERSARY SALE PRICES
REGULAR SALE 
PRICE PRICE
Dt 25 CONNECTOR HOODS $ 1.75 $1.00
BNC MALE CABLE CONNECTORS $1.35 S1.00
MINI DIP SWITOCS 20'/C0NTACT ANY 3 /SlOO
2,3,4,15 CONTACTMINI GATOR aiPS 5/S1.25 5/SLOO
MINI GATOR BOOTS D/SL50 K/SLOO
ADDITIONAL SALE & CLOSE-OUT ITEMS
2 COND. SHIELDED CABLE 24AWG S'/FT.SOU 5V /6A POWER SUPPLY 2 LffT $45.00
RAINBOW WIRE
14 COW. 40</FT.
20 COND. 45</FT.
30 COND. 60</FT.
MEMOKY EXPASION RAMS FOR PERSONAL COMPUTERS 
4104 4K RAMS $ 4H6 16K RAMS $
 BRING IN ANY RECENT CATALOG OR CIRCULAR IN THE 
U.S.A. AND WE MILL PVATCH THE ADVERTISED PRICE 
ON UIM'S AND Mli6'S. THIS OFFER WILL REMAIN IN 
EFFECT ONLY WILE SUPPLIES LAST. QUANTITIES 
LIMITED. WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO CANCEL THIS 
OFFER AT ANY TIP*.
FR5 MINI FLASHLIGHT WITH BATTERIES WITH THE PURCHASE OF
$20.00 OR MORE A $2.00 VALUE , OUANTITES LIMITED 
SALE PRICES ONLY WHILE SUPPLIES LAST 
NO REFUNDS,EXCHANGES,RAINCHECKS,OR REPAIRS 
MENTION YOU SAW THIS AD IN THE TARTAN AND RECEIVE A FREE GIFT
Steel needs cooperation
continued from page 9
with greater concentration in higher profit 
products, in conjunction with new technol
ogy, the industry will be able to sustain itself 
sufficiendy.
The discussion closed on the last perspec
tive of the industry, the workers. Carolan 
acknowledged that time will make the difnot afford to wait out these problems. 
However, without cooperation of the 
ference, but understandably the workers canunions and concessions by the industry, the 
future is almost non-existent. A greater com
mitment has been asked than ever before but 
only through this commitment can one of 
Americas largest industries, steel, survive.
"Drugs are habit-forming"
A majestic freeze: mammoth icicles appear to be supporting Panther Hollow.
WRITERS AND ARTISTS:
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is 
accepting submissions of poetry, fiction, drama, 
and artwork for the 1983 edition. Submissions 
should be placed at the Skibo Info Desk, in care of 
the Editor Oakland Review. Artwork can be
placed at the Art Dept, office, 3rd floor, CFA. 
Deadline for submissions is February 25.
questions, contact Kristin Kovacic at
Fnnded by Activities Fee
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan StaffivrUcr
10 YEARS AGO: Feb. 13, 1973
As reported in the last issue of Pittsburgh 
Renaissance, the College of Fine Arts is not, 
to say the least, the ideal physical environ
ment for artistic instruction. The com
plaints against the present CFA facilities are 
well known, as are the arguments by the 
administration concerning the lack of 
funds, which prevents correction of what 
now seems like a deadly disease.
President Richard Cyert has been quoted 
as saying Buildings are not the measure of 
quality. It is the faculty that is determinent. I 
would hope that on this campus we can 
avoid the temptation to build for the sake of 
having newer and more attractive facilities. 
With roaches crawling up their legs, ceiling 
tiles falling on their heads, inadequate and 
misplaced practice rooms and rehearsal 
facilities, the stench of sewage encouraging 
their continued efforts, students and faculty, 
alike are becoming determinedly 
dissatisfied.
The answers to this complex problem 
are not obvious, and I am not attempting to 
challenge Dr. Cyerts economic expertise. 
What is obvious is that if these answers are 
not found soon, they will no longer be neces
sary. CFA LIVES! BUT FOR HOW 
LONG?: Gary Singer, News Editor.
20 YEARS AGO: Feb. 13, 1963
From the column by Jeffrey Axelrad 
entitled A Candle In the Darkness: The 
government of the United States and its 
individual states, expressing the will of the 
vast majority of its citizens, has decreed that 
the buying or selling of narcotics (except for 
tobacco) is illegal. Why? The reasons most 
commonly given for this restriction of indi
vidual liberty should be examined.
It is claimed that these evil drugs are 
habit-forming, and cause bad health and 
even early death to the person using them. 
While they are habit-forming, doctors are 
not nearly as sure as the average person that 
narcotics, taken in moderate doses, are 
harmful  even if taken over long periods 
of time! However, even if they are harmful, 
is this sufficient reason to keep 
anyone who desires them if the person 
knows the effects the drug will have have on 
him? The column goes on to cite various 
specific objections people have dted to 
legalizing drugs, but claims that drug 
addicts are conscientious workers, and 
would jump at the chance to do useful 
work if society would let them, contrary to 
the common notion that they are worthless 
scum. He concludes by stating that legaliz
ing the sale of narcotics is a step toward a 
free society and individual freedom.

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1983The TartanPage 11
ake money by writing about free market
|-The United States Industrial Council 
JSIC) Educational Foundation is 
mouncing the initiation of the John 
tiamberlain Student Journalism Awards 
r excellence in college journalism of a free 
arket orientation.
Cgsh prizes will be awarded to college 
umalists whose work best interprets 
id/or defends the spirit and ideals of the 
iditional free market system, or critique 
jposing it. Eligible entries must have been
published in a student-run, college news
paper or journal during the calendar year 
1983.
The Student Journalism Awards (named 
in honor of the nationally syndicated writer 
and noted economic historian, John Cham
berlain) will begin receiving entries imme
diately. Eligible entries must be received by 
December 31, 1983.
Cash prizes will be awarded in the follow
ing order: first prize of $500, second prize of 
$350, third prize of $250, fourth prize of $150,
and fifth prize of $100. Five honorable men
tion prizes of $50 each will additionally be 
awarded. All entries will be judged by a 
select five-man advisory panel of profes
sional judges.
Entrants should submit entries to the 
USIC Educational Foundation, 303 Real
tors Building, Nashville, TN 37201. There is 
no entry form or entry fee. All entries 
become the property of the USIC Educa
tional Foundation. For further information 
contact John P. Cregan at (615) 256-9561.
y ITA provides income tax assistance
Free federal income tax help is available 
irough VITA, the Volunteer Income Tax 
ssistance program. VITA, sponsored by 
ie Internal Revenue Service (IRS), is 
signed to provide free tax assistance to 
iwer income, elderly and handicapped taxayers who cannot afford professional tax 
elp.
VITA volunteers assist taxpayers prepare 
orms 1040A and 1040EZ and certain scheules of Form 1040. The volunteers also 
repare Pennsylvania State tax returns and 
pplications for rent rebates.
VITA volunteers receive special IRS[
aining and can alert taxpayers to special 
edits and deductions for which they may 
eligible. They do not, however, prepare 
liore complicated returns dealing with such
Allegheny Womens Center.in out pjlienl medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center
201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213(412) 687-TEST
Botl. centers Mill be open daily tor pregnancy tests and counseling.
Allegheny Womens Center
Medical Center East Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
CMU 
BALLROOM 
i DANCE CLUB
Every Friday, 
3-4:30 p.m. 
Thistle Hall 
(in the Gym)
Beginners 
Welcome
A charismatic 
prayer meetin; 
every Friday 
night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege for 
information; 
262-3950.
items as capital gains, business expenses or 
rental income.
VITA sites are located in churches, com
munity centers, schools and other places 
near taxpayers homes. Because of the conve
nient hours and neighborhood locations, 
many taxpayers find VITA assistance easy to
use.
Taxpayers visiting a VITA center should 
bring this years tax package, wage and earn
ings statement (Form W-2), interst state
ments (Forms 1099), a copy of last years tax 
return if available and other relevant infor
mation concerning income and expenses.
s* /'' /' /V -v ?- W f Wmm
photo by Gene Yonish
A gerbil in the hand is worth two at Kiltie; 
perhaps more in the cancer research lab.
Engineering & Science Students
Study the Possibilities
A leader in systems engineering, MITRE offers career opportunities in 
Systems Analysis, Planning and Engineering for Military and Civil 
Communications, Air Traffic Control Systems and Advanced Information 
Systems.
The professional environment at MITRE is one of challenge, inde
pendence and innovation.
If you have a PhD or MS degree in Electrical or Systems Engineering, 
Computer Science, Math, Physics or are an outstanding B.S. graduate in 
these fields, wed like to talk to you. If you wish to arrange for an appoint
ment or require further details, please contact your placement office.
If you are unable to interview at this time, send your resume or a 
detailed letter of interest to: J.A. Goudarzi, The MITRE Corporation,
1820 Dolley Madison Boulevard, McLean, Virginia 22102. We are a 
GEM member employer. We welcome responses from minorities, 
females, veterans, and the handicapped. U.S. citizenship is required for 
employment in all national security related areas.MITRE
Washington Center
3TH ETL ALTESHI NC HRO AGM/SP NCHOLOBH

---------------------------------------------------

Goatftr trias 
m ififpw# 
instruction
'< >?:<:. >>:<:*:. :: ,;:-x-:i-:>w> .>*>$ 
:*\\w .* -.$>: sXNV*:- ....
%*. :^v- &$$&&$ S\x*x^<x-x; S5WSS>V
SSW* S&S&P* ^ r^W^SO-S:
St^t: ! $?bNSf c^ic^csiq^:;
Join our writers, production staff, 
photographers, artists, and business 
people. Meetings are on Mondays, 7:30 
pm in Skibo 13. Interested but can't come? 
Then drop by Skibo 50 anytime Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Stones roll toward old
age with tired movie
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
up, please, its time . .T.S. Eliot
Mick Jagger doing what he does best in Lets Spend the
The Mouth assumes center stage as the 
rest of the band prepares for the initial crash 
of familiar chords which mark the introducof yet another gig.
In the background, away 
from the burning lights and the 
stage ramp, the crew carry on 
business as usual. A drink of 
is poured into plastic cups and 
guitars are located and placed in accessible 
places for their players. The sweat is quite 
noticeable and the first tune isnt even half
way finished.
Mick Jagger looks bored. The costume is 
typically colorful (elasticized pants and a 
T-shirt); the prancing is still sug
gestive; the Mouth remains wildly caver
nous, but Jagger is not interested. Too 
uninterested, as a matter of fact, to even cater 
to the cameras that seem to be omnipresent.
The rest of the Rolling Stones dont 
appear to deviate from Micks behaviour. A 
leather-clad Keith Richards makes little 
attempt to acknowledge anyone elses 
presence-especially not the crowd of 
30,000. Bill Wyman (who sull believes in 
dressing up) and Charlie Watts (who 
doesnt) saunter onstage, occassionally
Designers display mastery of media
By SARAH G. RATCHYESpecial for the Tartan
The public will be able to compare and 
contrast work from the design department 
and the department of art this week at 
Forbes Gallery. Two designers, Todd Cochlan, a graphic designer, Chuck 
kraeuter, an industrial designer, 
and Marla Kitder, a fiber artist 
and painter, have put together a 
liivtrijyt: and intriguing show.
Graphic designers work primarily with 
two-dimensional visual mediums to create a 
clear, stimulating, and pleasing means of 
communication. Todd Cochrans work 
emphasizes his mastery of many, varied 
mediums and his imaginative and keenly 
aesthetic use of the media.
In two month-pages of a class-designed 
academic calendar, Cochran emphasized 
two different approaches to the problem. 
Working within the limits of an exclusively
Giron joins CFA as 
visiting playwright
Playwright Arthur Giron has joined the 
CMU drama department faculty as a visit
ing instructor. He will teach a playwriting course.
A graduate of the University of Califor
nia, Los Angeles, and Hunter College of the 
City University of New York, Giron is 
author of Becoming Memories, a play 
developed at The Illusion Theatre, Minnea
polis, which has been optioned for Broad
way by Elizabeth I. McCann and Nelle 
Nugent.
Girons other plays include: Edith 
Stein, originally produced at the Arena 
Stage, Washington, DC; "Dirty Jokes with 
Michael Moriarty at the Academy Festival 
Iheatre, Lake Forest, Illinois,; Money" 
an<J Innocent Pleasures at the Ensemble 
Studio Theatre, New York. Giron is a 
ounding member of the Ensemble Studio.
received an Emmy nomination for his 
^r,pt for the davtime drama, "AnotherWorld.
black-and-white composition, an imagery 
involving designers tools and the inclusion 
of the letters CMU, Cochran concentrated 
on a single tool in one month-page, reduc
ing and simplifying it into the elements of a 
beautiful, formal design.
On the other month-page, the curves, 
twists, and thick and thin lines that describe 
recognizable tools, and the negative spaces 
around the tools were used to 
disguise the universitys initials.
Several of Cochrans posters are on 
exhibit. The travel poster and the poster 
based upon a historic date show an excep
tional understanding of shape and color and 
the communicative dimensions of each. 
Similarly, the information poster about 
asparagus is the result of knowledge and use 
of various materials toward a clear, ordered, 
and aesthetically pleasing and stimulating 
end.
An understanding of the techniques and 
aesthetics of photography is a required part 
of the designers education. Each designer 
sees and uses photography in his or her own 
way. Often, photographs are Dresented in a 
series or book. However, Cochrans blackand-white photographs are to be viewed 
individually. They are related only in the 
photographers intent to make the visual 
elements work aesthetically at the instant of 
the photograph.
For example, in one photograph, the 
curved shape of a mans back covered with 
the blurred gray knit of his sweater fits 
within an angled world of a brick wall, a 
gridded window, the twisted vertical pieces 
of an iron porch rail, concrete steps, and the 
bend of a pipe hand rail. In another picture, 
the billowing folds of a large, industrial 
plastic sheet contrast with the silence of a 
solitary pedestrian caught mid-stride beside 
an industrial building.
That color is a concern for Cochran is 
evident in the absence of bright white and 
pure black in his photographs. Textures, 
angles, and shades play off one another in 
the moody light of early morning or dusk. 
Again, we see the thoughtful and knowl
edgeable use of a material, in this case photo
graphy, to beautiful and thoughtprovoking effect
Cochran moved slightly out of the twodimensional world when he designed a kite. 
The four-color, silkscreened design pro
claims the kites purpose. However, in the 
Gallery, one appreciates it in purely twodimensional visual terms.
Collaboration is an important means of 
putting design into the environment. Coch
ran and Kraeuter are showing their proposal 
for a wall in the Morewood dormitory. 
Colors, simple shapes, and functional ideas 
were coordinated to create a visually interest
ing wall. An example of the wall has been 
painted onto the Gallery wall.
Industrial designers work with threedimensional aspects of the man-made envir
onment. Kraeuter is exhibiting models 
made of molded plastic of, among others, a 
gas mask, a camera case and a credit card 
machine.
Kittlers fiber pieces and paintings involv
ing fish and Madonna figures are also being 
exhibited. The Forbes Gallery showT con
tinues through Saturday.
glancing at one another and nothing else, 
and pick up where they have left off a thou
sand shows before. Newest Stone Ron 
Wood, who joined formally in 1975, has 
learned to tame his pre-show enthusiasm 
somewhat, but just not enough to com
pletely veil his anxiety. The audience roars 
and settles back for an evening with the 
Rolling Stones.
Lets Spend the Night Together is the 
latest concert film effort of the infamous 
Rolling Stones, and should probably be 
their last. Although it is vogue to advocate 
the dissolution of vintage rock bands (die 
Who, Led Zeppelin, etc.) the reason why the 
Stones should keep from approaching 
another concert film is obvious. The guys 
just dont care. Hurry up, please, its time ...
Some of their output is acceptable to even 
hard-core Stones fans; unfortunately, only a 
minimal amount of good output exists. 
Decent tunes include: Shattered, Just My 
Imagination, Time is on my Side, 
Waiting on a Friend, Richards T&A, 
and Brown Sugar. However, a constant 
flaw of even the more redeemable songs is 
the groups lack of inspiration.
A few interesting scenes consist erf other 
peoples involvement. Occassionally, inserts 
of the Stones backstage life serve as mildly 
intriguing entertainment, mosdy concern
ing guitarist Ron Wood, his girlfriend and 
daughter. Additionally Geri Hall, Jaggers 
ex-lover, fills a two second long part as a 
smiling piece of the dressing room wall.
Honkey Tonk Women (note the plu
ral) bring quite a reaction as Jagger steps out 
onstage with an entourage of at least 100 
women all fully costumed in best little 
whorehouse apparel.
Time on My Side proves to be quite an 
odd segment itself. Early Stones concert 
footage, thrown casually into the song, 
helps to alleviate the viewers tedium. The 
song also implies some type of political 
meaning-of course, not too clear. The ele
ment of surprise works well here: at the least 
expected moment the film audience finds 
themselves looking at bloodied, mangled 
bodies of probably war victims. Howr and 
w hy these scenes became part of Lets Spend 
the Night Together remain very real ques
tions but the answers are not to be found 
readily.
The nonchalance, the distractions, the 
lack of direction add up to a definite feeling 
that time is running out for Mick and the 
boys. Gimme Shelter is a classic: Ladies and 
Gentlemen: The Rolling Stones is at least 
commendable; however, the Stones have 
dated themselves with this film. Hurry 
please . . .
Photo by Rhoda Funk
Director James Birder and Thom Delventhal discuss Delventhals character in Ibsens 
The Lady from the Sea. The play can be seen today or tomorrow at the Studio Theatre.

---------------------------------------------------

Page14The TartanFebruary 15, 1983
Toto hits big time after years of studio work
By KJ. SENIOR
Tartan StaffwrUer
The group Toto is one of the hottest rock 
bands around, and this years Grammies 
prove it. Besides being a major attraction in 
the rock industry, the six musicians who 
i emprise the group are all first 
I call studio musicians  at least 
one of the members can be 
found on practically every 
album coming out of L.A.
The members of Toto are Jeff Porcaro 
(drums), David Paich (keyboards, vocals), 
Steve Porcaro (synthesizers, vocals), Bobby 
Kimball (vocals), Steve Lukather (guitars, 
vocals), and for unknown reasons David 
Hungate has been replaced by Mike Porcaro 
(bass).
This year belongs to Toto. They have 
been nominated for nine Grammy awards, 
including producer, song and album of the 
year. In addition, their third hit single from 
the LP Toto IV, Africa is number one on 
Billboards pop chart.
What else could any group of musicians 
ask for? Riding high both in the world of 
studio recording and of live performances is 
fantasy for most musicians but reality for 
Toto. Its enigmatic, phenomenal and unbelieveable, but factual.
Toto is a product of Southern California 
rock n rollers. No doubt, they are largely 
responsible for this genre. Jeff Porcaro says 
People say we [Toto] sound like Steely Dan 
and Boz Scaggs. Well, thats because weve 
played on their albums and our style comes 
across. The reality is since we play on so 
many albums, a lot of artists sound like us.
The band got their start playing every 
prom, wedding and bar mitzvah in the San 
Fernando Valley, performing old Hendrix 
and Rolling Stones tunes, making the way
for their reputation as a fired-up rock band. 
Then it happened. Since Jeff Porcaros per
cussionist father, Joe, and David Paichs 
arranger father, Marty, were already in the 
business, they were able to make contacts. 
Jeff met David Hungate, who was Sonny 
and Chers bassist. Hungate recommended 
they hire Jeff, which they did. Conse
quently, Jeff got other gigs; he worked with 
Steely Dan, then Boz Scaggs. Scaggs needed 
a keyboardist and arranger.
Then Jeff recommended David Paich, 
which Scaggs hired to play on and co
produce the Silk Degrees LP. From there 
David Paich and Jeff Porcaro recommended 
Steve Porcaro and Steve Lukather for studio 
gigs and the rest is history.
After burning up the studio scene for a 
while. Jeff Porcaro and David Paich gave 
birth to the idea to cultivate their own band. 
They cut a few demos, shuffled them around 
to some record companies, and finally got a 
contract with Columbia. The rest of the 
musicians who made up Toto were quickly 
united, and the recording of their first 
album was under way
They were nominated for Best New 
Group at the Grammies, but lost out to A 
Taste of Honey (The Boogie Oogie Woogie people). The groups album sales and 
successful nationwide tour were enough evi
dence of a promising new band on the rise to 
stardom.
Despite these facts, critics chewed Toto up 
and spat them out. They were criticized for 
being too fastidious, sacrificing vitality and 
rawness for studio polish and sheen, and 
for having all chops and no brains and 
writing cheap formula pop songs.
Toto is a band that most critics hate, 
but why? Is it because the critics like taking
Burger Bonanza Week 
Tartan Grill . . .
invites you to treat 
your friend (or 
yourself)!!
Hamburgers $0.90 ea.
 Cheeseburgers$1.00 ea.
Purchases unlimited 
with coupon.
COUPON
Tartan Grill 
Hamburger 
. 90 each
Valid Thru 2-20-83
COUPON
Tartan Grill 
Cheeseburger 
$1.00 each
Valid thru 2-20-83
pot shots at commerically successful artists, 
justifying their feelings by referring to the 
groups non-creative, non-original pander
ing? From Totos point of view theyre critic
ized because critics feel studio musicians 
cant make up a rock n roll group. They 
think were just a sell-out band. But our 
music is just put together well. We overdub 
things to make them sound better.
Paich comments that In a tune like 
Rosanna if we played it raw, or too loose, it 
would sound horrible. He wanted to por
tray some variety in the song. Nonetheless 
he utilized a Spinnerslike arrangement in 
the bridge. The music drops down and the 
voices come out, so you can feel that 
emotion.
Paich likes to brag about how everyone 
was fooled at the end of Rosanna. They 
thought we were going to end when we 
started to jam. Lukather laid down a wicked 
guitar solo in the process. In the tune 
Africa Paich says we used real African 
instruments to bring out the essence in the 
song. There are so many points which are 
overlooked in. our music.
It looks like the critics will lighten up on
the group because of all the credit they ^ 
getting from the producers and artists. Pe,.. 
formers like Mike McDonald, Donald 
Fagen, Donna Summer, Christopher Cross 
and Chicago work their schedules around 
Toto, trying desparately to incorpoi^ 
some of the bands members unique talents 
on their albums.
Toto describes itself as a band in search of 
itself, but with the release of Toto IV their 
search is done. They are currently Working 
on a new album due for release in August 
This LP will be very similar to the recent 
album, but more bluesy and live-sounding
Presently Toto is burning with talent 
More success is destined to come and monev 
is just falling out of their pants. These six 
musicians are the cream of the crop in the 
industry. Just ask anyone of their clientele: 
Earth Wind 8c Fire, Quincy Jones, Elton 
John, Diana Ross, Michael Jackson, Olivia 
Newton-John, Manhattan Transfer, Alice 
Cooper, .Seals and Crofts, George Benson, 
Don Henley, the Brothers Johnson, Linda 
Ronstadt, Jackson Browne, The Beach 
Boys, Cheap Trick, A1 Jarreau and Patti 
Austin. The list goes on, and so does Toto.
Philharmonic to hold concert!
The CMU Philharmonic under the direc
tion of Kypros Markou will present a con
cert at 8 p.m., Sunday, February 20 at 
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland.
The concert will feature the winners of 
the student concerto competition as soloists 
with the orchestra. The program will 
include two singers, Donna Zapola and 
Sharon Derstine, performing Richard 
Strausss Befreit and Alban Bergs Seven 
Early Songs. Percussionists Larry Ordener
and Rolando Morales will perform Pauli 
Crestons Concertino for Marimba and 
Darius Milhauds Concerto for Percussion.
The program will also include Concertol 
in E for String Bass by Dittersdorf with! 
Michael Nigrin, string bass, and Mendels  
sohns Rondo Brilliante with pianist Jack! 
Rusnak. Hie program will conclude with] 
Diversion, composed by CMU student! 
Eddie Caplan. The concert is open to the j 
public without charge.
r
.. v.:..','...
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU!
 II
IIIm m I ra m I  3 Hi *
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
DomIee
CWCC71TWRS.
Mon.. Tues , Wed. 10-7 
Thurs.. Fn. 10-9
Sat. 9-6 687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PPECSON MMCUTTH
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

Scorch W SodA ________________
ThE STUdENT dRAMA club of CARNEqiE'MElloiN
PRESENTS
OmqiNAl ltnweCy PlAys 
WmnEN by eHCn AlfoNsi
The Bible
.IVEn Eg FpRNicAT ier
DiRECTEd by DAvid oral.a
oIgptttttttttt
DiRECTEd by Bob CARqiulo 
FEbRUARy 1 9yRI 8pi\i 
FsbRUARy 20rh, 4pivi 
ThE WhERRETT Room, Skibo
TickEIS ARE $1.25, AVAiUblE
AT tNe Skibo iNfORMATiON Desk OR AT ThE dOQR
FuNdEd by AcTivmEs roo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 15, 1983
Trip to New York CitySpecial Report: A look at the latest Laurie Anderson
By C. RHOADES
Tartan Staffwriter
We angled into the air while the airplane 
moaned.
Todays the anniversary of Buddy Hol
lys death, I rather brusquely mentioned to 
Geof, photographer, co-conspirator and fel
low artistic and cultural sponge for our pil
grimage to New York City and the 
international premiere of Laurie Ander
sons multi-media performance United 
States Parts I-IV.
In a small plane obsolete compared to 
this modem jet aircraft, Geof continued 
casually. And the floor whined as, out the 
window (which bent much too far when 
Geof pushed it), I watched the wing slide 
toward Pittsburgh.
I looked at my red ticket receipt certifying 
payment of $20 for one no-frills Peoples 
Express airfare. And I thought: What a way 
to start off a trip.
This is your captain. We are about to 
attempt a crash landing. Please extinguish 
all cigarettes. Place your trays in their 
upright, locked position.
Your captain says: Put your head on 
your knees. Your captain says: Put your 
head in your hands. Captain says: Put your 
hands on your hips. Heh, heh.
Laurie Anderson stands behind the voc
oder, tossled head tilted around its micro
phone and hands methodically pressing its 
keyboard. Behind her on a large screen, a 
few sparse, random lines slowly evolve into 
an airplane.
This is your captain  and we are going 
down. We are all going down, together. 
And I said: Uh, oh. this is gonna be some
fCngisa- Mla MCne aC Cfp nUv tnyaysaUe
Aftty TohOiEt 
Ne^eOd ChANTRy 
^EinrohSn asnFtot 
uodi FsdoRis
And yE Emh plsdQEs 
poh.ohny PAk
T,Pbul Svrrh 
ApRil Touw 
RANdi Wolfs
KrM ^motn
2n OEcn you! Vpn i1iynhi of anOyo 8orro
PREGNANT? Cali ata 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTUNE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
3THELA3HSIEN HC 3RCLHSCA
N3sa non-profit organization
Ukxnefts 
Health 
Services ~
Now...
tiT ALOcCnCPd 
tOBHSCc fTPnHSTCB
rn1/nC6
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave (cor Meyran) 
Pittsburgh. PA I52I3 
(412) 683-3730
pTiCHTiC
625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1914
Free pregnancy testing daily Call for hours and 
instructions Confidential counseling available
day.
Experiencing United States: Parts I-IV is a 
sensual union, very much like sex, derived 
from and producing a mood, a multifaceted environmental feeling rather than a 
specific idea or statement: a succession of 
engrossing moments after which youre 
pleasantly exhausted from the stimuli, but 
unsure of how to interpret what just passed. *
As novice New Yorkers hailing from (of 
all places) the cultural wasteland of Pitts
burgh, Geof and I were easily seduced by 
this ardsdc stimulation: Was it The Real 
Thing, a deep and meaningful symbiosis, 
or a one-night (or two-night?) stand, a shal
low purging of mutual desires?
Thursday night we rode the subway from 
the Brooklyn Academy of Music back to J
mid-town Manhattan after the opening ||
night and Parts I and II. The sparsely popu- I
la ted car clacked a minimalist rhythm 
throughout subterranean passages, a burst 
to street level, above the river, and back into molded minds Durins twenty-minute
the tunnels. intermission before Part II, the recent
memories erf Part I were juxtaposed with the 
CMU professional experience. With spe
cific pieces like The Language of the Future
Part I, loosely unified around the theme 
of transportation and ready change, left an 
especially strong reverberation in our CMULAURIE ANDERSON
and Dance of Electricity (for Nikola Teslt 
Anderson spoke of a technology molded ti 
people and, at the same time, molding thes 
people.continued on pagel
Modernism only part of Anderson's art
By GEOF BECKER
Tartan Staffwriter
How is it that Anderson can mix a wide 
range of mediums like music songs, narra
tion, projected images, and theatre and 
obtain such riveting results? Of course, one 
answer is that she is an extremely talented, 
highly expressive artist. Another is that, as 
the product of an art history education, And
erson makes use of the pool of elements 
resulting from the breakdown of individ
ual art forms which, according to Don Shewey in The Performing Artistry of Laurie 
Anderson characterizes modernism.
Shewey goes on to say that it is the per
formance artists who have taken up the chal
lenge of recombining speech, song, images, 
movement and modem technology in new 
ways. Who or what threw down the gaundet? Shewey suggests that a force called mod
ernism provoked the challenge, and 
performance artists are reacting against the 
reductive impulse of the last, minimal
ist, gasp of modernism.
It is a mistake of classification to credit a 
label with so much pow'er; the artists who 
worked in the modernist tradition did the 
work, and they were concerned with much 
more than breaking down individual art 
forms.
The modem artist was a sometimes social 
critic self-alienated from bourgeois life,
who, like artists of any period, searched foi 
some kind of truth. On the path to truth, 
many modem artists such as Wagnai 
Monet, Joyce and Picasso passed through 
the town of perception and asked themselw 
questions about the nature of perception 
and how it is received through diffra 
channels. Then, these artists, through a soi 
of manifest destiny idea of art history, tria 
to utilize their new knowledge.
The fragmentation of modem art tha 
Shewey calls attention to is pardy a rsulte 
the exploration of perception, a search [a 
universal values, and partly the historic 
bent of modem artists. Being familiar wi continued on page 21
TERIMIN ALS
GDC
CRTSPRINTERS
e TELEVIDEOe EPSONPORTABLES
e C ITOHe OKIDATAeMODEMS
e ADDSe NEC SPINWRJTERCOUPLERS
e DECe DATASOUTH
e VISUAL TECH.e DEC
e G.E.
PRINTERS
788-480
We Specialize 
In Interfacing 
Peripherals To 
Computers
COME SEE THEM IN OUR SHOWROOM!GENERAL DATA CO., INC.
5173 CAMPBELLS RUN ROAC 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15205
OHIKO'S WkOSo
AflA
$5.00 minimum order

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1983The TartanPage 17
Elbow Room serves decent food but won't win prizes
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
\Tartan Assistant News Editor
Along the broken sidewalks of Ellsworth 
I Avenue in Shadyside, lies the Elbow Room, 
la bar and restaurant which seems to resemIble a large wooden closet filled with tables, 
< hairs, and a bar to hang the 
drunks on.
Hie atmosphere is friendly 
ind young, but not very quiet. 
1 main staple of the Elbow Room is alcoIhol, so a constant hum is in the room, and 
I the bar television is always on, often turned
to a football game. The floors are in need of 
sweeping, but everything seems to be rela
tively sanitary.
The service is courteous and prompt. 
Nevertheless, that they are in the alcohol 
business becomes apparent when they try to 
push beer down ones throat throughout the 
meal.
The grilled Braunschweiger on rye 
($3.00), comes topped with Swiss cheese, 
tomato and lettuce, and onion on the side. It 
is accompanied by a side order of French 
fries and any condiments one has requested.
Tuesday night at Gustine's 
features two Pitt writers
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
As scheduled, a poetry and fiction reading 
was held in the Back Room at Frankie Gusdnes on Tuesday, February 8 at 8:30 p.m.
Doug Currier, coordinator of the Tuesday 
Night Reading Series, began the reading 
with the introduction of fiction writer Mark 
Collins.
Collins, a graduate of the University of 
I Pittsburgh, is now in the MFA program for 
fiction at Pitt. He was editor of the literary 
magazine Backspace last year and currendy 
writes short stories for the same publication.
Collins read an excerpt from an untided 
piece of fiction. It was written in first person 
and concerned a young man who recendy 
departed from a live-in relationship with a 
former instructor, Karen. After leaving 
Karen, the man moved into an apartment in 
Altoona, Pennsylavania, and was searching 
for work; however, Karen somehow found 
him.
After Collins reading, Bruce Dobler, 
former coordinator of the program, intro
duced Doug Petesch, who read various selec
tions of his poetry.
Petesch is a professor involved in the 
Writing Program at the University of Pitts
burgh. He recently received the Fellowship 
in Literature from the Pennsylvania Coun
cil on the Arts. In addition, his work appears
in periodicals such as Poetry Now, Poetry 
Northwest, and the Louisville Review.
Petesch started out by reading poems 
about his family, such as Mother and 
Father. He then moved on to historical 
poetry. One historical poem was based on a 
photograph taken by documentary photo
grapher Lewis Hine in 1911. It was titled In 
the Photograph by Lewis Hine. Other his
torical pieces included An Army Physical 
and The Generals on the Evening News.
The next two poems described Mexico, a 
former home of Peteschs. They were titled 
Old Woman and Prickly Pears and In 
the Cathedral.
Jim Daniels, instructor in the English 
department at CMU, served as the inspira
tion for the following piece. Daniels book 
On the Line, a collection of poems dealing 
with factory work, reminded Petesch of a 
former job of his own; On the Line, Oak
land, California was dedicated to Daniels 
as a result.
Petesch ended his portion by reading 
what he referred to as one of his more 
explicit works of poetry. It was tided At 
the Ocean and served as a description of 
making love in the water.
Two more readers will be featured at Gustines tonight. Bruce Dobler will be reading 
fiction and Judy Vollmer will be reading 
selections of her poetry.
Potato chips can be substituted for fries.
There isnt a lot of brawn in the 
Braunschweiger, since two meager pieces 
are all one finds. However, it is piled high 
with die cheese, lettuce and tomato, and if it 
is any consolation, it appears to be grilled 
correctly  what there is of it tastes 
delicious.
The French fries are some of the best in 
Pittsburgh. The potato skins are left on, so 
the result is a fry that is not too greasy or 
soggy, but also not at all hard.
The roast beef sandwich ($3.25), comes on 
rye, white, wheat, or Kaiser roll with the 
choice of chips and fries. The beef is sliced 
thin, but packed thickly on the bread. The 
beef is moist, tender and not too red.
The Great American Hoagie ($3.75), is 
served with ham, salami, provolone cheese, 
lettuce, tomato, onions, peppers, and some 
kind of dressing. It also comes with the cho
ice of potato chips or french fries. However, 
how this soggy sub can claim the title of 
Great American is a mystery. It is served 
hot, but unfortunately was only warm. The 
sight of it didnt add to the appetite, since it 
was a shapeless muck of meat and vegetables 
on a drowning bun. Nevertheless, it 
appeared to have lots of nutrition.
Other sandwiches range in price from 
the grilled cheese at $2 to the Triple Decker 
Delight at $3.90. The Elbow Room also 
offers burgers in five ounce or one-half 
pound increments. The Hamburger Platter 
goes for 52.50 for the five ounce, and $3.25 
for the one-half pounder. Besides cheese 
burgers, there are also bacon burgers and 
blue cheese burgers for diners of that genre.
Salads ($1.15 to $3.75), soups ($1) and 
munchies ($1 to $2.25), are also available 
either with or without dinner.
Draft beer is 70 cents a mug for Iron City 
or Strohs, and 75 cents a mug for Miller. 
Pitchers run from $3.75 for the former two 
brands to $4 for the latter. In addition, the 
Elbow Room has a large supply of bottled 
domestic and imported beer priced between 
$1 and $2. There is also wine and harder 
alcohol. The Elbow Room doesnt appear 
to card very heavily; that is, until they read 
this review.
The food is good, save the fries which are 
scrumptious. The atmosphere is note
worthy compared to most college drinking 
dives. Alcohol is moderately priced. The 
Elbow Room is a watering hole which also 
offers edible food, but it is not something for 
which to go out of ones way.
"United States" and politics
continued from page 16
Part II, described as dealing with politics, 
echoes these technological issues, but as 
always, only in a tangential and informal 
presentation: a young lady on an airplane 
spouting computerese buzz words 
repeated on the slide-screen in Talkshow, 
referring to her lover as a mode-y type of 
guy, their relationship a binary on/off.
A dreaded DEC-20 NOT RUNNING 
message flashing on my typewriter, love let
ters via MM computer mail, my systems 
analyst father explaining how he black 
boxes his behavior into sub-routines.
Anderson generates an eerie combination 
of personal reactions with equally ambigu
ous generic images of American life: an 
artist with juxtapositions, contrasts and
comparisons, moods and contexts. Critics 
object to the ambiguity and self-reference, 
but Anderson rejects the temptation to draw 
a straight forward meaning from her work: 
I dont try to tell people what the world is 
like or what to do about it. I havent the 
slightest idea about eithr one of those 
things.
Reading the promotional background 
articles in the clattering subway car, I read 
another quote: My goal is to make images, 
and it is very different from making ideas; 
the information comes at you differendy. So 
it is more important to look at my work and 
accept or reject it in terms of sensual things 
as opposed to how it adds up logically, but it 
is an arrangement of things you get first continued on page 21
HAIR PEOPLE
kok raufa3p AVE hwoK'-we
yLSCc this PTGUTC nC6 cOH
$5 OFF
TL
$15 OFF
nCd
BHd/OPGH
n// B 
UOLB
AOLB 3OO6 aUUTSCHOCH 
sTGUTCB OlUSLO (XkXw(
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call: 
LIFELINE J
Downtown Pgh. 
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
562-0543
843-0505
489-9020
282-1200
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon
AWAaW 0rW
MCAT- LSAT-GMAT 
SAT-DAT-GRE  CPA
Permanent Genters open days, evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.Complete TEST-nTAPcvfacilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed lessons.  - Voluminous nome-study materials constantly updated by researchers expert in their field. Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
rtW srWQQ aJaNfayf
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
I Can Divi Evr* A Wo'i'n-k
w stadJeu-H. Essex House L12
If/IDI JIM Corners Center, Negley & Baum 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
610ICanDiCv I6ia6E
661-2772
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
ASH WEDNESDAY 
February 16, 1983 
6:15 p.m. 
HOLY COMMUNION
WITH IMPOSITION OF ASHES
Heinz Memorial Chapel
(University of Pittsburgh campus) 
ALL ARE WELCOME 
Sponsored by Lutheran Campus Ministry 
Paul H. Sampsell, Beverly J. R. Aurand 
Campus Pastors

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The Tartan February 15, 1983
Special Valentine's Day Classifieds
To Suebee, special friendships are hard to find. I 
hope we never lose ours. Happy Valentines Day. 
Your first bidder!
Harry J., Youre number one in our book! 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY!! Love, Sue.
Are you my honeybun?
Are you my cutiepie?
Good!
You must be PFL.
Im Slim.
Happy Valenunes Day!
Ixne, Slim.s 1 * u '  '
Chaz to all the tickle fights, Tabs, cookiewiches, 
quiet times, and other times. Heres to US! Love 
You! ERK! K.C.
To Boo-ful: Lets take a walk in Schenley Park. 
Noseprint.
Fred, come inside and play-Love Snookums. 
My future dentist, you can replace Aloysius any
time you please. All my love, Terri Highland. 
But gee whiz, Ray, its our ick!!!
From one star to another were gonna give next 
door Hell for G.S. Peace, love, and go-go boots. 
Hey Baby. Have a fantastic Valentines Day. Meet 
you in the steam tunnel. Love, your ever adoring 
subordinate.
Happy Valentines Day Loretta L. Thanks for 
being the BESTEST L.S. ever. We have to go get 
ice cream. LYBS.
Happy Valentines Day, Bushy.
To Sweet-Pea, the Strangler, Tinkerbell, Cockey, 
Sweetie-Pie-with-a-Tie, MarlboroMan, and 
Charlie Brown (a.k.a. Pac-Man)--We Love You 
All.
Barb-Happy Valentines Dav--Love the guys 
from CMU.
P.A. & G.L.--You wet my whisde.--Schub-chen. 
A Valentine for my Big A:
Poses in bed,
x-rated view,
under the sheet,
only with you ... know who.
Sammy, So you want to be dancin in the streets? 
Well do it near an ocean. LOVE YA BABE, J.D. 
OPOF, OOPF, FPOO, FOPO, OFOP ... Just 
cant seem to FOOP, help POOF!
Hi Allende, almost 3 years now and I still love 
you!! Happy Valentines Day. Lots of love, Pooh 
Bear.
Lil R, Heres to Wabbits, Sheeps, Ducks and 
Dogs. I love you.
To runner R and runner A, Mother and I wish 
you a happy Valentines day. Miss them b(r)uns. 
Arnold.
Madie, Youre every woman in the world to me! 
Ti Amo (molto), Kesti.
Dear Teddy, Happy Valentines Day! I love you! 
Cheryl.
2C10 Loves You: Rich, Pete, Mel, Scenery, Roy, 
Mark, Dale, Mike, Sascha, Waymon, Ray, Jay, 
Don, Dean, K.C., Carl.
TO POPCICLE TOES, YOU ALWAYS MAKE 
MY DAY! LOVE GUIDO.
To our Litde Sisters and Litde Sister Pledges: 
Happy Valentines Day. The Zoo.
Sue Mahler-Insincerity never knew such 
heights, nor confidence such betrayal. F.O.A.D.
To the cutest smurf in my life: Jim, Real men 
dont compare ... and the snow melts fast in 
February. Happy Sweetheart day! Love Bambi.
Love Lace Laura-I love you--you silly nut. 
Happy Valentines Day! Bam Bam.
Perky Patti--To the littlest big sis in the world 
with the biggest heart! Happy Valentines Day! 
Love Bambi.
Residents of Donner 2: Diana, Connie, Mike, 
Mark, (Dale, Mark), etc.-I LOVE YOU!!! -Your 
RA
WANTED: A vacation alone with you, on your 
Uncles farm. Love, a Friendly frost Bitten Nose.
Steve Cohen, When you give us your change, we 
melt with desire. Sheila, Kathy, Dawn, Kelli, Deb
bie, Lynn, Lyn, Linda, and Ilene.
To Mr. Cheap and Easy, Can I borrow your 
alarm clock? Your Honey.
Hey, Uglo, Ill love you forever, too. Lets have a 
B.S. Soda and talk about it. Love Arson.
Laurie D.-You depolarize my sympathetic auto
nomic neurons! Lets recombine our DNA! 
Happy Valentines Day! Bob R.
Kathi 8c Lin, Karen 8c Mags.'Claudie & Donethanks for caring ... youre the BESTl I love 
you!--L.L. McP.
Dear Dave, Happy last Valentines Day. Soon 
we can start celebrating the firsts!! I love you, 
Barb.
To Architects and Steven Cohen of 83, Party 
Hearty, and remember about 90 days till Gradua
tion. Happy V.D. His Ex-roommate!
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY G.W/143/ME. 
Arax-Happy Vals Day! May all your bugs grow, 
gels polymerize, columns elute, assays count, and 
infections lyse! Bob R.
SHEILA/LYN; (THIS IS THE LAST OF IT) 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! I.L.Y. 
LYNNIE.
Have a woody Valentines Day, Bully Club! 
(from the N.H. Branch).
Julie Anne,
Our poetic license 
could be licentious 
if in short time 
youll be my Valentine!
Matthew.
To My VALentine, Remember the overlook, The 
Clash, backrubs and LOVE. Your Owl.
To the girls in 4-D-7, Happy Valentines Day and 
Happy Halloween! With love from The Gas 
Man.
Rabbi Reubinawitz wishes you a Happy Valen
tines Day Joe!
To the Beeler Street Clique Plus 1. How about 
another party-for VD? Happy VD. Love, the 
2-4ds.
Jud-der-rella I Miss You! Are you hiding from 
me? Im not a happy girl. Happy Valentines 
Day!
To Strange Agent 1. from a concerned LS. Im 
making an appointment for you with AA chair
man C.K. Luv ya mun!
Susan P. Have any Beta sophomores on hand? I 
love jocks! Good luck in the Mikado. LoveYL2S.
A PDOA for JLS: Jeff HI Sue P.S. Hey-Cutie! 
Where do you want to go for dinner on 
Saturday?.
To my Hill Street Blues Gang: Lots of love and 
thanks for friendship, happiness, and affection. 
Timothy dear, Im yours.
Diana Melamid: You dont know me well. You 
may never. Im too shy. But youre beautiful and 
wonderful. No joke.
Happy Valentines Day to all the wild, wonderful 
women on the Varsity Volleyball team. Love the 
Mens Volleyball team. WIFM.
To a beautiful artist who doesnt do spinnakers 
but does other things which are even better, be 
mine. Love YDS.
M.E.F. ITS NOT THE HAVING, ITS THE 
GETTING WANNA GET ?-SMART ASS.
Dear Sweet Janet K., I miss you most of all on this 
Valentines day. Ill remember you now and 
forever. Love Always, S.M.
Hi Honeybear! Happy Valentines Day and 
(almost) six month anniversary!! Youre my 
home, I love you. Love, me.
CHACHI-HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! 
YOURE TERRIFIC -ALMOST AN EXCEP
TION TO A.G.A.J. (THANKS FOR YOUR 
PRESENT ... S.T.S.) LOVE AND LUST, 
BLUE-SUSAN.
To Richard; Hope we can get together sometime 
soon. Miss you more than anything. Happy Val
entines Day. Low ya lots, Penny.
BTNs: In the future Ill set the alarm to go off 
much earlier. Happy Valentines Day. Mike.
Two beautiful, intelligent, and vivacious TriDelts looking for Valentines! Expectantly, K.8cL.
To my bro, the hottest sax player in my lifeI 
love you! Zoot Sims lives ... thanks ... Linda.
ELSIE M. I love you always. George O.
Happy VD to The Clique (Cheezie the Doodie, 
Elsie, Sueee, Michele, Mr. Mundane, Jenn-Jenn, 
Kim, Dee, Vic, etc.) and The Truk. Love, Tess.
O.TCongratulations Susie on being the new Pres, at 
KAO. Things will be great! Love you wildly your 
Treasurer and Rush Chairmen.
Art. Yes, youre good; BABY, youre the best! But, 
NO I still wont go out with you. MS.
Dear Honey--Baby-Sweetie--Cutie-pie--Honeybunch-Darling, happy Valentines Day! I love 
you!
Yea, we remembered that the BEAR can lie with 
the Unicom; the price was a unicorns horn. 
Remember it well, my love.
Mom, Dad, Beth and Gram--Happy long
distance Valentines Day! (a week late). Love and 
miss you all! See you soon ... Love, Patti and the 
hamsters.
Dear Jean, I care very much about you. I hope the 
special relationship weve started will last and I 
know neither of us will get burned.--Steve 
Pierre Jr., More than 100 days-must be serious! 
Look out! Whens the bike trip? I promise I wont 
litter.
Ron, concerning other message, heres to more of 
the same. Happy everything-A Close Friend. 
To our dear, sweet, kind, loving, handsome and 
intelligent Manager, WE NEED MORE 
ONES!!! Happy Valentines Day anyway, 
Entropy.
Marc, yin BEGGAR-there is more than a 
GHOST of a chance ... why dont you come 
DAHN and see me sometime?
Hey, You! Youre weird ... Love ya, Mikey 
babe! Happy, Happy Valentines Day, from one 
buggy driver to another buggy driver!
To Big Al-happy V-Day from your friends at 
The Tartan.
Stefanie-Leam how to drive. Grace.
A. Existentialism is negated. C.J.
Roseann-You vascularize my corpora cavernosa 
and corpus spongiosum!-Big Bob.
To Cathy at Penn State: Happy Valentines Day! 
Continuing the tradition, Vince.
Laurie, Thanks for just being. I love you. Fran.
Be our valentine Tony Martin-love, your fan 
club at 131 MM.
Bam-Bam, Happy Valentines Day to you, swee
tie! Youre the greatest little sis. Always keep your 
happy litde smile on your face. Love, your big 
sis Pat.
Dear Bob, You mean more to me than Snoopy 
and Springsteen. Be my Valentine. Love, Rachel.
A V-Day hug to V.G., G.B., P.M., M.B., S.W.,
B.H., K.T., A.A., L.B., J.C., L.S. Love, L.C.
Dearest Lovey, 
shhh ptt waak 
mmmmmm!
Happy V.D., sweetheart. Love, Vee.
Krisie, Happy Valentines Day to you, sweetie! I 
love you as a little sis. Good luck with upcoming 
auditions-Hope you find a happy place for your 
heart! Love, your big sis Pat.
Happy Valentines Day Big Brother John Bar
rett! Youre the best big brother in the world!!! I 
love you. Love, Celia.
To Tartan staff, you guys are still all heart!-with 
mch luv old ed.
Hey 5E!! No one could ask for a better floor! 
Thanks for making my birthday something 
more than Groundhogs Day! Love, Laurie.
Frank, Im interested. Your litde St. Banard.
J.T.--Pennies "Take a chance Be mine! RO.
The Man, We can always play another game. 
Maybe youll win! Happy V-Day.
To all of you courageous men who dared to share 
your ideas-Thank You!-THE BIRTHDAY 
GIRL.
GUYS OF 4-A, HAPPY VALENTINE S DAY. 
LOVE YA (WILDLY), GIRLS OF 4-B.
E.T.(P,)-HAPPY VALENTINES DAY! In 
BE RIGHT HERE!!!! (WHERE ARE YOD 
SWEETIE.
Hi Bidis-Hope you had a great time here, I h3(j 
blast!! Love Bidis.
Oh 99, I love you ... Ziggy L.L.
When college has ended, these memories wil] 
linger. I love you all, April.
Oh Mickey, youre so fine. Youre so fine, y0u 
blow my mind. Love, Minnie.
To Jad Mynyrv, Oops. The adventurers from the 
iVolIwoods Ahmed, Gordon, ChaVon^-"" '
Garth, Tarkham, Kylo, Fogen, Gafoon, Wencej. 
laus, Nivlem, Elyssa.
Have a Wicked Pissa Cool Valentines Day -Yes 
Sa!!
Dear Heineken, Happy V-Day! Love, Becks. 
HAPPY VALENTINES DAY TO: Mr. Conge. 
niality, Chip, Clarke, Fran, Jude, Dan, Mr. Wallstreet, Carl, and the rest of the 7th floor
Happy Birthday Laura, Youre leaving Sugai 
mountain but you made it with a litde mustanl. 
Love, Tom.
Fay and Fania, Miss your georgeous bods in 
weightroom, but will see you in shower after 
Akido -A Thecret Admirer.
Hey,* You! How come my sisters never home 
anymore when I call? Youd better stop this mon
key business! Baby George.
Physicist, Favorite, to My; 10 years is a 
time-arent you glad you saved the best for the 
last?
P.S. And if it doesnt stop, Ill have your kneecaps 
broken! Baby George.
Steven Jewish, I miss you. Lets have dinner and 
see another one of those fun Jane Fonda movies. 
Boobs.
Lovely Linda B.-Whenever you smile, the whole 
world sparkles. Wont you be my Valentine? 
Love, Garfield.
The Trombones wish Luan Denny a Happy 
Valentines Day.
Happy Valentines Day to the best Young" EE 
on campus.
Happy V-Day, Kelli. Love always, Charlie. 
Happy Valentines Day to everyone on the 
Rouge project.-Monica.
Happy Valenunes Day to my litde S.F. at Bryn 
Mawr from your S.G. at CMU.
LS Spit or swallow? C.J.
Dear Big S.-You wouldnt have considered being 
my valentine, by any chance, would you? 
Naaaaaah, thats crazy. Love, crazy T.
CAH-ONLY 124 DAYS LEFT FOR OUR 
DREAM TO COME TRUE, AND t STILL 
CANT STOP THINKING OF YOU.-SDO
I^ove, to Bright Eyes, from The Champ and E.B 
P.S. Dont let Chuck and Henry get cold.
To SeN ATE-heartfelt greeyngs and highest feel
ings for the best leader weve ever had. Love 8c Linda 8c Lucy Blotter.
MM: Is there life after breakfast? KT.
To Sonje, KS, DWR, and Gatsby; Happy Valen
tines Day from your favorite little person.
Advice to a DIVER: Wicked jello is the next best 
thing to a Boston Accent. Happy Valentine* 
Day!
LB, I LOVE YOU! BE MY VALENTINE AND 
WELL WAIT FOR BP TOGETHER YEA*5 
FROM NOW. YLLF.
Hitler. Im having you arrested for the corrupt10 
of minors! Congratulations-youre doing a S1^ 
job with GS. Love, Outstanding.
Art. Dont you ever feed the poor girl? Meryl tfW 
dont you make him take you out to eat5 MDDave, IH settle for four. How about you?-
J. Magana-Whip out your tamale and give 
your hot sauce! (No name attached).

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans outlast Gators in 5 O.T. marathon
By DOUG REIN STEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
In the Tartans best performance during 
the 1982-83 campaign, they defeated the 
Allegheny Gators in quintuple overtime, 
81-76.
Outstanding performances were turned 
in by senior captain Carl Mulac and by 
sophomore guard Peter Bennett They 
scored 20 and 18 points respectively, while 
Bennett played a superb defensive game and 
handled the points during a couple of the 
overtimes.
In a battle of coaching strategy,
Coach Dave Maloney came through as the 
victor. The Tartans stayed in a 1-3-1 defense 
the entire game and then switched to a man 
to man defense in all 5 of the 
ods. "The man to man defense was intended 
to exert a litde pressure and maybe cause a 
turnover, Maloney said following the 
game. His strategy paid off 2:09 into the fifth 
overtime. A Bruce Nesdore pass was picked 
off by Tartan freshman Bob Kukowski 
which gave CMU the lead to stay.
The game started out with the Tartans 
and the Gators trading baskets as Allegheny 
jumped out to a 7-6 lead. The Gators, capi
talizing on a CMU miss and a fast break of 
their own, ran off 9 straight points. This 10 
point lead didnt last for long as Mulac, 
Bennett, and Greg Gabriel became hot dur
ing the latter part of the first half. Bennetts 
[jumper with 1:51 remaining put the Tar
tans ahead for the first time 37-36. A Bob 
Williams basket at the trail end of die half
i gave the Gators a 38-37 lead at intermission.
The Gators came out quickly in the 
second half. They jumped to a 5 point lead 
j on consecutive baskets by game high scorer 
Jeff Penn. Penn wound up with 24 points. 
Following a CMU timeout at the 14:02 
mark, the Tartans went off on a scoring 
| streak of their own. The Tartans outscored 
| the Gators 13-2 during a 7 minute stretch, 
j The Tartans connected on 7 free throws and 
a 3 point play by Kevin Resnik on an assist 
| from Greg Gabriel.
Following Pete Bennetts last two foul 
J shots, Resnik committed his 5th personal 
toul. He joined Rich Neff on the bench. Neff 
picked up 4 fouls in less than 5 minutes at
Photo by Rhoda Funk
Junior Pete Bennett had an outstanding game against Allegheny. His last second jumper in 
the 2nd overtime and his 8 free throws helped CMU to victory.
the opening of the second half. The Tartans 
were forced to use two freshman, Debski and 
Kukowski, for the remainder of the game.
During the Tartan outburst, Coach Malo
ney used what he describes as his 4 to score 
offense. This was an offensive spread that 
relied on penetration and foul shooting, 
since Allegheny was over the limit. Unfortu
nately during the last 9:50 of the game, 
CMU missed the front end of four 1 and 1 
situations.
Carl Mulacs basket on a Gabriel assist 
gave the Tartans a 6 point lead with only 
1:03 remaining and it looked like the Tar
tans would post one in the w column. How
ever, a Nesdore jumper cut the lead to 4 with
0:58 left. A CMU miss and a Jeff Penn bank 
shot cut the lead to 2 points as Allegheny 
called time-out.
With 0:24 left, the Tartans had a 2 point 
lead, and they had posession erf the ball. 
After putting the ball in bounds, CMU 
turned it over, and the Gators had one last 
chance. Nesdores shot with 4 seconds 
missed, but Gator junior Dan Miller con
verted an easy lay-up and sent the game into 
the first of 5 overtimes.
Mulac broke the deadlock at 3:59 by con
verting 1 of 2 free throws. A basket by point 
guard Bob Williams gave Allegheny a 63-62 
lead. After a Gabriel miss, the Gators went 
into their own 4 comers. Williams converted
2 free throws to extend the lead to 3. 
Kukowskis 2 free throws were offset by a 
pair made by Miller, and the Tartans still 
trailed by 3. George Debskis short jumper 
cut the lead to 1 with 15 seconds remaining. 
The Tartans were forced to foul, they chose 
Dan Miller. If he sank both, the game would 
have been all but over. He sank one of the 
two, and the Tartans had one last life. 
Gabriel missed the ensuing jumper, but 
Mulac rebounded and converted the lay-up 
with 2 seconds remaining to send the game 
into the 2nd overtime.
Allegheny won the tap again and stalled 
for a minute and a half before they turned it 
over. CMU took over and proceeded to do 
the same thing. The Gators held the ball 
until Nesdore drove down the lane, pulled 
up and sank a 6 foot jumper with only 5 
seconds left. The inbounds pass came to 
Bennett who dribbled to the top of the key 
and swished a 20 foot jumper to tie the score 
at 70 and force a 3rd overtime.
The 3rd and 4th overtimes were similar in 
the fact that neither team scored in either of 
them. The 2 teams played 10 minutes with
out a point! Nesdore took the only 2 shots of 
the 3rd overtime. The Gators won the tap in 
the 4th extra period and proceeded to hold 
the ball until only 5 seconds remained. Nes
dore pulled up for a baseline jumper and 
was fouled by Debski. Not only did Nesdore 
miss both free throws, but he threw an air 
ball on the first. This forced the fifth and 
deciding OT.
Continued on page 21
Kosakowski and Samuelson lead CMU to victory
By JOE OSINSKI
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU hockey team made a four-hour 
trek to Erie through a heavy snowstorm last 
Friday to meet Gannon University. The 
Tartans survived the trip, and a sluggish 
first five minutes, to post a 5-0 victory and 
raise their regular season mark to 14-1.
Captain Rick Samuelsen intercepted a 
clearing pass in front of the Gannon net and 
scored the first goal of the game at 6:46 in the 
first period. The goal was the first bright 
sPt in a period dominated by Gannons
aggressive body checking. The Knights 
aggressiveness, however, proved to be their 
downfall as they picked up 62 minutes in 
penalites for the game and yielded three 
power play goals. Eric Spray scored two of 
them, the first one coming at 11:40 in the 
first period.
Consecutive penalties for interference, 
cross-checking, and roughing by Gannon 
gave the Tartans a two-man advantage early 
in the second period. The Tartans wasted 
little time capitalizing on the power-play. 
Spray scored his second goal on a feed from
Paul Russo at 2:39. Later in the period, 
Chris Byrne put the game out of reach with 
a forehand shot from the slot. The play was 
engineered by Tartan centerman Mike 
Panno. Panno exchanged passes with 
Russo and then flicked a centering pass to 
Byme who was alone in front. The goal, 
giving CMU a 4-0 lead, came at 10:47.
The third period was relatively quiet as 
the Tartans played fire defense and pre
served Bob Kosakowski s second shutout of
the year. Kosakowski turned away 29 Gan
non shots in his best performance of the 
season. Bill Heyse scored the final goal with 
only twenty seconds remaining.
The Tartans take to the road again next 
weekend to face Slippery Rock in Meadville 
on Saturday. CMUs final regular season 
appearance in the Civic Arena is slated for 
Saturday, February 26, when they host the 
Dayton Flyers at 1 p.m.
Honomical surprise in 400 IM
Swimmers fall to John Carroll
By RANDY CONDON and TOM 
BREKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriters
In a valiant battle the Tartan swimmers 
were defeated by John Carroll. Des. ite the 
loss, many of the Tartans swam to personal 
bests.
Leading the team was Joe Honomical 
who surprised everyone in the 400 IM. His 
gut performance paved th way for many 
other excellent efforts.
Top times were turned in by Pete Orlicin 
the 200 breaststroke, Alan Whidield in the 
200 back, George Harvey in the 500 free and 
Jeff Frumkin in the 100 yard free. First places were also taken by Randy Condon in the 
200 back and Dave Lenett in the 50 free. The 
meet ended on a positive note for CMU 
when the 400 free relay of Duncan, Brekovsky, Lenett, Condon, and Palm con
tinued its winning ways.
Co-captain Laurie Southom continued a 
season long decline in times in die 100 fly, 50 
free, and 100 free. Asked by this interviewer 
how she thought the team was doing, she 
replied I think the team has a lot of poten
tial. Its the best team weve had since I've 
been here. Im really proud of the girls on 
the squad, especially Gina and Buz/ Ilby.
Next week the Tartans square off against 
arch rival Washington and Jefferson.
Photo by Steve Winawer
forward Andy Andrejko attempts to score as winger Bill Heyse waits on the doorstep.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanFebruary 15, 1983
Intramural wrestling practice begins next week
The 1983 IM wrestling season is now 
underway. This years commissioners, Rick 
Baeder (681-1182) and Alan Darr (928-8665) 
are looking to increase participation even 
further over the record breaking participa
tion of last year.
Tentative weight classes have been set at 
130, 140, 150, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, and 
Hwt. and the finals have been scheduled for 
IM Night on Thursday March 10, with the 
preliminary bouts taking place earlier in the 
week. In order to minimize the chance of 
injury', each participant is required to attend 
a minimum of two practice sessions.
Practices are scheduled for every Monday 
through Friday 4:30 to 5:15 in Thisde Hall 
(off the main gym), beginning on February
17.
Elsewhere, things are running pretty 
smoothly. A commissioner has been found 
for bridge! Thats right, Terry Klousky, 
x5975 and 683-0269 after 11 p.m., has volun
teered for duty. Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. First round must 
be played during the interval of Feb. 14-17.
Schedules are also out for Handball and 
Water Basketball. Check out the IM office 
for these valuable pieces of paper. Commis
sioners are E.J. Birdy, x2214, and Kevin 
Hartman, x4305, respectively.
People have been complaining lately 
about the call Pool situation. Well, there is 
Team Call Pool whose rosters were sup
posed to be handed in last Thursday. How
ever that deadline has been extended to 
today ad commissioners Les Joel, 683-8680, 
and Ian Beilis, 687-6893 would like more 
teams to sign up.
This is not to be confused with Individual 
Call Pool whose entries along with Foul 
Shooting, Radmitton, and Co-Rec Table 
Tennis, are due this Thursday.
MAJORS
East
Sixers
Kappa Sig-A 
Quiche Eaters 
BETA
Runnin Rebels
D-Force
The Park
A.D.C. I
PIKA
West
SAE
N.T. Express 
The House 
Celtics 
Hoyas
Give a Hoot 
The High Five 
O.T.H.
Supa Stars
Aggies
Mothership 
Harrys Tavern 
DU
Just for Fun 
Housing Office 
Bruins 
Shady Bunch 
DGC 
PKT-B 
Icemen 
EDO
Cavaliers
Supa-Nova 
Manila Folders 
3rd FI. E-tower 
Old Millworkers
KS-B12Electric Eels40
WinLossDukesWinLossLouisa Blues 
Forfeit
1
1
4
3
9
50Jets40Simoans
0
905Fine Arts04First National Bank1
Win
2
4
3
o
Flying Tigers 
TX-A
3
1
0
2Redmen
0
Loss
32ZBT-A137E Dunks40
91
2
FriarsWinLossBiohazards11o
3Supa-Adonis41Central Park North04
1
0
Win
4Math Grads04Zoo21
4ADG II12Sarahs Joy31A
LossFlash
Degenerates
2
4
1
0
AROTC
PIKA-C0
3
3
105Jumping Jacks03Comus13590GophersWinLossSpartansWinLoss
0
4
AGSIA Blue23SAE-C13
1o
EPP Quiche Eaters 22Icemen31
Unicorns04Dreads0439oDTD12Spliffs21o
$Skins30Uptown Imposters12
A0F Troop30DU12T
MATES
Hoyas
Turing Machine
Win
1
Loss
1
Full Moon 
GWANG I 
Rastamen
3
2
2
0
1
1
LossWinLossArch Angels 
Delta squared phi
2
3
1
1TarheelsWin
22Know-Names04The Premature Shooters4013Keenotatas21PKT-B223
1
1Wakonda Auga12SCHLAG 69ers133
1JayhawksWinLossBossmen123Skoal Brothers21Renegades30WinLossZebras30Skid Row21
12Yellow Sheets -'c12TX-B12
12Architects03KS-Bruisers03
21UHB21Hollywoods Hogs12
40The Phoenix12WomenWinLoss
03MINORSIndisputable11WinLossDG01
22PanthersWinLossThe Untitleds11
22World B. Free40Uncle Hymies Deli20
13Basketball Jones13Basket Cases00
30Barking Pumpkins04The Shining Stars01
Summer Programs Offered by CamegieMellon University
PARIS 1983 
GERMANY 1983
What are you doing this summer? Why not make it a European summer?
Join us for three weeks on the CMU campus and four weeks in Europe, 
developing your communication skills in French or German.
Intensive language instruction, excellent teachers, for beginning and 
intermediate students.
Full day program, five days a week, for 3 weeks in June in Pittsburgh. With 
native isntructors. 4 credits, $700. Continental breakfast and lunch included.
French program at Institut Catholique in Paris for 4 weeks (June 28-July 26). 
German program at Goethe Institute in Luneburg (near Hamburg) for 4 
weeks (July 11 to August 5).
Each program, 6 credits, $1150. Includes tuition, room and board, and 
excursions.
Students may enroll in either the Pittsburgh or European programs 
independently.
Make this a special summer, Write, or call us for details. European Studies 
Program, Camegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. (412) 578- 
2881. Deadline for application March 31.
FRESHMEN 
3-Year Full Tuition 
Scholarships
Available Through 
Army Officer Commissioning Program 
(Current Participation is Not Required)
Application Period: Now
Scholarship begins in the fall term
Eligibility:
Selection Criteria:
Benefits:
2.8 Cumulative Q.P.A. or better 
Full-time student 
Be less than 25 years of age on 30 June of 
graduating year 
Based primarily on evaluation of academic 
achievement, leadership potential and degree of 
success in college.
Pays all tuition costs, fees, supplies, and books 
and provides $100 per month in school financial 
assistance (for up to 10 months each year the 
scholarship is in effect).
For further information, contact Capt. Michael Schulte, Camegie-Mellon University 
at (412) 578-2205 
or visit our office at Margaret Morrison Hall,
2nd basement

---------------------------------------------------

February 15, 1983The TartanPage 21
nderson brings minimalism 
o performance artistry
Laurie Anderson chose New York City as the setting for the world premiere of Untied States.
nued from page 16
d using different mediums of expression 
not, as Shewey implies, limited to perfornce artists. Artists who attended the Bauus school,,which operated from 1919 to 
33, were taught carpentry, metal, pottery, 
lined glass, wall painting, weaving, grahics, typography, and stagecraft. The 
hool was started by Walter Gropius, who 
ught to close what he thought was a 
hism between art and technologically
fined craftsmanship.
Performance artists of today do not create 
eir work with the resources a Bauhaus 
duate could tap. Performance artists, and 
urie Anderson is a prime example, -draw 
n the perceptual knowledge but not the 
11s accumulated by modem artists. They 
tine the same vein used by politicians and 
vertising people to persuade an audience
Y thrills 
ith Laurie
ntinued from page 17
trough your senses and not through your 
ijrain.
I Like executive signatures on Treasury 
lotes and cashier checks, subway signings
 re cryptic at first. The sure curls and angles 
lit at the consistency which eventually 
lecomes evident upon systematic inspection 
If all the cars grafitti. They seem stylized 
lith purpose, not scrawled impetuously by 
J efacers on the run, but etched, crafted with 
lie confidence of an artisan. Even the sym
bols dripping excess paint down the car side 
re stroked bold. Trails of vertical splatter 
rid ooze speak of passionate urgency  a 
| riving need to leave a mark: I Was Here. 
I We returned to East 45th Street to wind 
I own and let the swirling impression of the 
Iremiere solidify. Our host, recent CMU 
i English graduate Berkley Schroeder, adds 
I is own impressionistic gospel. He speaks 
If his own work with an entertainment 
idustry promotional agency and, as fellow 
ord-smiths, we heed our former classwates words of exploitation, manipulaion, ambition, politics, favors, contacts.
I Punctuating his ideology, he waves an 
musing sign of his alumni status for pictor- I  emphasis: a Camegie-Mellon Magazine 
continued on page 23
to buy this or vote for that. This does not 
mean that performance artists, politicians, 
and advertising people share the same goals, 
but they do share the same tools.
Although performance art has roots in 
the Dadaist movement of the twenties, the 
term is typically used to describe the work of 
artists such as Vito Acconci, Chris Burden, 
and Tom Merioni. Their work was charac
terized by extremely self-conscious, autobio
graphical subject matter. While Laurie 
Andersons brand of performance art 
includes autobiographical references, she is 
not limited to them.
In the March, 1981 issue of Art In Amer
ica, Craig Owens traced Andersons style to 
the minimalist aesthetic of performance art 
expressed by Robert Morris and Yvonne 
Rainer. Rainder and Morris believed that a 
performer was identified by the tasks 
accomplished in performance rather than 
by the creation single self like the work of 
Acconci, Burden, Merioni and others.
Anderson also tells stories in the first per
son, and she mixes points of view in songs 
like O Superman, From the Air, to 
create a pastiche of hooks and dodges that 
centers around the persona of Laurie Ander
son, technical wizard.
What pulls such catholic performance 
together? Minimalism, as expressed 
through the technological artistry of Laurie 
Anderson. The work of minimal artists both 
follows from and reacts against modernist 
tenets, this paradoxical fence-straddling that 
cuts across art mediums hints at minimal
isms importance. Far from being the 
oppressive eraser that Shewey calls it, 
minimalism may prove to be a pivitol move
ment in the transition from modem to post
modern art.
David Byrne, Eno, Robert Fripp, Michael 
Oldfield, and King Crimson, are more 
mainstream examples of the musical min
imalism started by Terry Riley, and 
expanded by Steve Reich and Philip Glass.
Minimalist music bathes the listener in 
hypnotic sounds that incessently repeat, 
then suddenly switch to another pattern. 
Two different examples of the process can 
be heard in the works of Reich and Glass. 
Reich uses two or more instruments playing 
the same phrase, but at different speeds so 
that they twist in and out of each other 
developing woven tapestries of sound that 
puts the listener at the center of constant
tranformations.
Anderson creates multiple personas dur
ing a performance. The technology she uses 
contributes a variety of sounds, and she 
switches point of view from first through 
third, even mixing them, when telling 
stories.
For example , Anderson tells a story about 
Finnish farmers who killed Russian para
troopers during World War II. It was winter, 
the farmers found the Russians by looking 
for holes in the deep snow that covered their 
fields.
Glass uses an additive process that builds 
from a melodic phrase, a motive, and elabo
rate construction that adheres to the original 
phrase. Like Reich, Glass presents a center
Zone defense 
beats Gators
Continued from page 19
Kukowskis steal broke the 12 minute 
scoring deadlock. After a Gator miss, 
Gabriel scored on a lay-up to increase the 
lead to 74-70. Bennett converted 2 free 
throws to make the lead 6. Allegheny scored 
relatively insignificant baskets as the Tar
tans finished them off 82-76. The Tartans 
shot 7 for 8 from the foul line in the last 
overtime.
Coach Maloney employed his 1-3-1 zone 
because of Alleghenys size. Not only are 
they 6 4 and 6 5, they are 200 to 225 
pounds, and very strong inside. Our 1-3-1 
clogged the middle, said Maloney. We 
aslo didnt foul too early, he added.
for the listener to grasp while following his 
transformations.
The distinction between additive and 
phase-shift styles is very polemic, but it 
serves to illustrate patterns and similarities 
that have developed in minimalist music.
Laurie Anderson shows her minimalist 
roots in both the music and the projected 
images of her performances. But the grand 
sweep of her subject matter tugs hard at 
continued on page 24
Men's v-ball 
places 2nd
The CMU mens volleyball club began 
the semester well at the Grove City invita
tional volleyball tournament. CMU placed 
second overall in the tournament, which 
consisted of five teams: Grove City, Robert 
Morris, Scottys Volleyball Club, Titusville 
YMCA, and CMU.
CMU faced Grove City in the semi-finals. 
They won the first game 15-8, lost the 
second 15-7, and won the third 15-12. Robert 
Morris defeated CMU in the finals, 15-12 
and 18-16.
CMUs season officially began on Thurs
day, February 10, against California State 
(PA). The first league tournament was on 
Saturday, February 12.
Pregnant?
And you didn't 
mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
Show that special someone you 
care with a word.
Get a personalized, one-of-akind watercolor print of:
 a name
 a favorite sport
 a feeling
To order contact: T. Ryan 661- 
4110
The discoveries continue.Hughes
In 1947 a man flew the Flying Boat, 
Hercules  the largest airplane in 
the world.
The man was Howard Robard Hughes
His ingenious ideas and explorations 
brought new discoveries in 
aerodynamics, communications, 
avionics, electronics
And the early years of Hughes Aircraft Company
Today, Hughes 
no longer builds
airplanes but the discoveries and exploration of ideas continue
Story.
The company's long history of 
technological firsts, including the first 
working laser, first 3-D radar, and first 
synchronous-orbit spacecraft, position 
Hughes as a world leader in today s 
electronics industry. Company-wide 
opportunities:
 Electrical, Mechanical, Manufacturing 
or Industrial Engineering  Materials
 Computer Science  Physics
 Industrial/Electronic Technology
Requirements may vary Check with 
your placement office for more details 
Find out how you can be part of the 
continuing Hughes Story in twelve 
Southern California locations and 
Tucson, Arizona
Hughes Story. Write yourself in.
Hughes Corporate College Relations Dept. NC, Bldg. C2/B178 P.O. Box 1042 El Segundo. CA 90245
Hughes representatives 
will be on campus March 1
(See your placement office for an 
appointment.)
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U S Citizenship Required
Creating a new world with electronics
Write yourself in. HueHESHUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPAN

---------------------------------------------------

TH cun CHICK
V5r3Vt BietJ 
i*k MIVI
AMO-we Mil. 
a1l5 ,2e 
fNu LHxV ISToTiUV 
\ OHMHNS--
0KTH0W' 
CAM you 
ixasr?
ioo'di \ A 61RI...
' Non. > 
T ulP5 
Cnv3ttMD 
v IT... ,
By Jay Seletz
X^REAU-Y P5YCHED FOR 
TH/5 ICE CREAM COMEi
HOV/E/Eft> X COULD 
DO WITHOUT THE 
5PRWKLES. /
By Diane ThodosIPSO FACTO
hoiA^ yo</ s^ch * th/n 
X u/as -TiTs-f o^e her^t
----------------------------------------
~ ExpUin yaorseif/
iMe)\ i+s obvious, +W
+h<e. fe\ car.ca+c/r because
y>ecouS.........U/fill.-. i/lv
.... oariV seem +o remember 
\ wKo is who . -<oVt cieeir).-
Now 1 GXgHY! \+- c^olcrsvooril
I * *** ^ CAficn+vre 
in +his strif, ju^y
v c\ f,Vm o-f r*6- __^X thiv>K IV
Schizophrenic
C?<___
POINDEXTER
fWEU. WHOSE TYPfcAMX?!IMAT *WUlt> )bUTW|Kfc F'IGOT 
THAT IfL (WCP THtfg, A 
VAINT1ME.?
n>-mwK 
\uuvgp! 
: 
1b^ TE 
NUT/
5bEP
3:t
cLI
?TYFE'
1
Funnies.
JOE FRESHMAN By Mark Levine

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifiedsgeneral
Will tyPe term dissertations, letters,
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534. 
Summer sublet 1 minute from campus, 4- 
bedroom, 2!4 bathroom furnished house, 
Sl62.50/room & utilities. Call after 5 p.m. 681- 
9065.
Pitt Professor needs tutoring in EMACS. Write 
pO. Box 19034, Pittsburgh, PA 15273.
The Academic Bag Ladies are meeting over 
lunch Thursday, 12-1, Lutheran Universi ty Cen
ter 4515 Forbes Avenue, Oakland. Info: 682-6886. 
German Tutoring  If you need help call 681 - 
2277 in the evening and ask for Klaus.
Guitar lessons. Classical, jazz, rock. Guitar 
major. $7 half-hour, $12/ hr. If interested, call 
\larc Garvin at 521-3694.
Doctor Coopers Fabulous Fructose Diet Plan.
One week supply $21.50. Banana, chocolate, or 
strawberry, Nova Foods, Box 300 Carnegie, 
PA 15106. 279-8520
Theatre Arts Graduates Resume Photographs 
A complete local service. Call for an appoint
ment, De Julio Photography, 521-3277. Les De 
Julio, Pat De Julio.
Lost Green Sweatshirt in Kiltie Cafe last week. If 
found, please contact IRA at x8677 or x2133. 
Resumes Word processed, look typeset at *4 the 
cost. Choose typestyle, format, and design. 
Update often, easily. Standard  $10.00 621- 
5585.
Artificial Intelligence Specialist sought by hightech southern California firm for major applied 
DoD project and commercial applications. 
Knowledge of LISP and natural language pro
cessing required. PhD highly desirable. Excellent 
salary and benefits. Will relocate. Resumes to: 
Jackie Niles, 6322 Mission Gourge Rd., San 
Diego, California 92120.
Klassy Kids - Do you need maternity clothes, 
childrens clothes and furniture? Come to Klassy 
Kids for low cost quality merchandise. Klassy 
Kids, 5819B Forward Ave., Squirrel Hill 521-
8623.
Save big on Avon cosmetics for men and women. 
Most Avon products half priced through Febru
ary 19. Call 683-8428 anytime.
Tired of those boring weekends? Looking for a 
little excitement? Join the TOM BREKOVSKY 
FAN CLUB! For information, call x4802.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:303-30 BH 
260.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, February 
23. Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
SCOTCH *N SODA NEWS: Production staff 
meeting for all those interested in working on the 
spring musical Carried Away. SNS office 40D 
Skibo, Wednesday Februay 16 at 7 p.m. People 
needed for costume, design and set construction. 
Contact Tom Wood at 681-6926.
The student senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. Students are 
invited to come and address the senate during 
audience participation.
Rugby Club: Practice every Tuesday at 4:45 p.m., 
and Friday and Saturday at 4:45 p.m. and 12 
noon. No experience needed, just show up at 
Flagstaff Hill.
Ordering of Rugby shirts, shorts, mouthpie
ces, etc. on Wednesday, February 16 in Skibo 
room 13 at 10 p.m. Bring money and dues.
First game against Steel City on March 5. For 
additional information call Adam at 687-0381. 
AIESEC invites students of any major to the 
Wednesday meetings in Skibo 11 at 4:30. For 
more information call x3515 anytime.
IEEE Meeting. Voting for new officers will be
will be celebrated at 12 noon and 5 p.m. and 6 
p.m. in the Hunt Library Multipurpose Room. 
(Use Frew Street entrance.) Ashes will be blessed 
and distributed during the masses.
Special Movie Presentation: Tommy by The 
Who. Tuesday, February 15 in DH 2210. 6:30, 
8:40, and 10:50 p.m. Admission $1.
The Investment club will be showing the movie 
Dirty Harry on Sunday, February 20, in DH 
2210, at 6, 8, and 10 p.m. Admission is $1 and 
refreshments will be sold. Take a break from 
studying and see a great movie!
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9, in Room 39 Skibo. It is 
non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues direcdy from 
the Bible. Stop by, and feel free to bring a friend 
with you. If you want additional information 
call 441-0819 and ask for John.
CMU Peace Alliance meeting. Tim Bamer of the 
Pittsburgh chapter of World Federalists will be 
speaking on the bilateral nuclear weapons freeze 
campaign on Thursday, February 17, in Skibo 12 
at 5 p.m. Also, a literature table with information 
on the nuclear arms race will be in Skibo during 
the day.
The Mortar Board Word of the Week: Lambent: 
flickering, wavering, playing lightly over a sur
face. A fire of resinous wood threw lambent shad
ows across the room.
events
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project will 
present a concert on Tuesday, February 15 at 8 
p.m. at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts at Fifth 
conducted on Wednesday, February 16 at Mi).. and shady AvenueSi shadyside. This is the fifth 
p.m. rn DH 1112. Refreshments will be served. jn a ^ o[ eight (ra, conccm by tht. Project 
Only members will be permitted to vote. Bring 
proof of membership. To join IEEE see Dr.
Hoburg in PH 18K.
The next conert will be Tuesday, March 29 at 
3114 Brereton, Polish Hill. For further informa
tion, call 682-1746 or 241-4243.
CMU Ballroom Dance Club. Leam to dance, free 
lessons, every Friday 3:004:30, Thistle Hall 
(Gym). Beginners welcome!
PRO-LIFE FILM SERIES Two films: Hang 
man, an animated version of Maurice Ogdens 
allegorical poem on the need for social responsi
bility, and Slippery Slope, a film examining 
the results of the 1973 U.S. Supreme Court deci
sions will be shown in DH 1212, TONIGHT 
February 15, at 8:30 p.m. Sponsored by CMU 
Assoc. For Life. Its free and everyone is welcome.
NYC excursion 
includes museums
continued from page 21
issue with an overly-realistic painting of 
President Cyert on the cover. Computer U.,
CrmI err, SyCI SWrg
After a cold night on a hard floor, we 
wander the streets sampling a half-dozen art 
galleries. At the Andre Emmerich Gallery, 
41 East 57th Street, the recent paintings of 
Lawrence Poon catch my eye while Geof 
explores an exhibition of German express
ionists in the same floor. Large canvases 
are drenched with neutral tones swirling 
down and colliding with chunks of 
embedded styrofoam.
Subtle gradations  evident only at a 
close range  of greys, pinks, and blues slide 
down the paindngs then flow over and 
around the irregularly shaped obstructions. 
Smooth texture, colorfully bland with onecontinued on page 24
The Society of Physics Students will hold its next 
meeting on Thursday, Feb. 17 at 4:30 p.m. in 
WeH 8325 to discuss upcoming activities. All 
members are urged to attend.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy will celebrate 
the beginning of Lent with Mass on Shrove Tues
day (February 15 at 6 p.m. at The Oratory, 4040 
Bigelow Blvd.) followed by a pancake dinner. 
Reservations are essential: 681-3181.
Ash Wednesday Masses (February 16) on campus
STANFORD
summer
session
Introductory and advanced 
courses, workshops and 
seminars in the visual arts, 
performing arts, earth 
sciences, education, 
engineering, the humanities, 
social sciences, sciences, 
and mathematics.
June 20 through August 13-
All students in good standing 
are invited to attend.
IMMIGRATION AND
LAW
CITIZENSHIP
-A
3K"
PERSONAL INJURY CLAIMS
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION
Call Anytime: 281-4130 or 361-7911
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARY S. STEINER 
Attorneys at Law
Appointments Available in Downtown, 
Oakland , Squirrel Hill and Morningside 
locations days, evenings and Saturdays.
1983 STUDENT PHONATHONS 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED
Prizes:
Free Pizza
Free Long Distance Phone Call 
T-Shirts for the Best Callers Each Evening 
CASH Prizes for Best Groups 
Call Linda Schumacher 578-2021 
For Infomation
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanFebruary 15, 1983
Parts /I/-/V of "United States"  money and love
continued from page 21
word titles like Tenn and Orleana. Further 
across the street at the PACE exhibition, we 
view Louise Nevelson and her Cascades 
Perpindiculars Silence Music, a series of 
constructions made of found wooden 
objects places together and painted a flat 
black. The large sculptures are arranged 
along flat dividing walls and in and around 
each other.
The permutations of chair legs, simple 
wooden blocks, bed post railings and the 
like are further developed by nesting the 
works together. What seemed to be one 
sculpture at first viewing became two or 
three upon viewing the area from an angle 
or from behind. An increased awareness of 
the importance of yiewpoints.
Reserving final judgement until after the 
second half of the performance, we took the 
D train from the Village (after a tantalizing 
quick run through a record shop) over to 
Brooklyn. The remaining Parts III and IV 
concerned money and love, respectively, 
according to our program guides. But
again, like the first night, the 40 vignettes 
flowed quickly into each other; the subject 
classificaitons seemed arbitrary since aspects 
of each issue cropped up in nearly every 
part.
Segments of Part III, as well as Part II 
earlier, were familiar from the Pittsburgh 
performance and the LP, Big Science. Like 
the Carnegie performance last May, Part IV 
was very smooth and rehearsed. Thursdays 
show, in comparison, suffered slightly from 
a few unpolished moments: reading from 
notecards, a momentary surprise at an elec
tronic devices output, and a startling slip 
from a stage ramp into the orchestra area. 
But these raw edges didnt jar the audience 
or otherwise mar the performance.
Indeed, when Anderson fell from the 
ramp she landed on her feet and conunued 
her monologue and violin accompaniment. 
Was it planned? Were there really words on 
those notecards or were they blank props? 
What is behind that curtain?
Part IV contained previously unseen 
material, save a version of Sweaters entitied I
No Longer Lover Your Mouth. It seemed to 
rely less on the stories and anecdotes which 
were so engrossing the first night. Instead, 
taped noises and voices, musical motifs, 
slide sequences, and other effects delivered 
much of Part IVs impact. Two pieces, Over 
the River and Rising Sun, relied almost 
exclusively upon Andersons latest techno
logical toy  the Synclavier, a programma
ble digital keyboard instrument which 
stores voices and sounds which can be deli
vered with tone value according to which 
keys are pressed.
The conclusion echoed a story Anderson 
delivered early in Part I about travelling 
alone on a dark road, asking directions with
out really knowing where or what the goal 
is. Drawing from her literary heritage with 
Twains Huck Finn, the finale, Lighting 
Out for the Territories, was a solemn and 
slighdy disturbing repetition:
Youre driving ... its dark.
You took a turn. You werent sure it was 
the right turn, but you took a turn anyway.
Suddenly it starts to look familiar ... 
When I began to write United States / 
thought of it as a portrait of a country. Qra^ 
ually I realized it was really a descnpti0n 0i 
any technological society and of peop^ 
attempts to live in an electronic worlds 
Laurie Anderson.Technology 
"US" theme
continued from page 21
repetitive strings. Has she conceived and 
conveyed a theme, building on it, yet always 
adhering to a central idea on a scale the size 
of United States I-IV?
It seems so. Everything Anderson does in 
performance, revolves around technology 
She does not address the audience except 
through some electronic device, and when 
she does she is never straight forward. Yet, 
Laurie Anderson never stops moving. She 
could work for Madison Avenue, but she is 
an artist who values her connections.
Take Charge At 22.
In most jobs, at 22 
youre near the bottom 
of the ladder.
In the Navy, at 
22 you can be a leader.
After just 16 weeks 
of leadership training, 
youre an officer. Youll 
have the kind of job 
your education and training prepared 
you for, and the decision-making au
thority you need to make the most of it.
As a college graduate and officer 
candidate, your Navy training is geared 
to making you a leader. There is no boot 
camp. Instead, you receive professional 
training to help you build the technical 
and management skills youll need as a 
Navy officer.
This training is 
designed to instill 
confidence by first
hand experience. You 
learn by doing. On 
your first sea tour, 
youre responsible for
managing the work of * tYear in College, 
up to 30 men and the I AMajor/Minor.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Im ready to take charge. Tfell me more about 
the Navys officer programs. (0G)
Name_
First
Address.
City____
Age--------
State.
tCollege/University.
Phone Number______________________________________
(Area Code) Best Time to Call
This is for general recruitment information You do not have to fur
nish anv of the information requested. Of course, the more we 
know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which you qualify MA 9/82
care of sophisticated 
equipment worth 
millions of dollars.
Its a bigger chal
lenge and a lot more 
responsibility than 
most corporations give 
you at 22. The rewards 
are bigger, too. Theres 
a comprehensive package of benefits, 
including special duty pay. The starting 
salary is $17,000more than most com
panies would pay you right out of college. 
After four years, with regular promo
tions and pay increases, your salary will 
have increased to as much as $31,000.
As a Navy officer, you grow, through 
new challenges, new tests of your skills,
and new opportunities 
to advance your edu
cation, including the 
possibility of attending 
graduate school while 
youre in the Navy.
Dont just take a 
job. Become a Navy 
officer, and take charge. 
Even at 22.
W 206
(Please Print) Last
__________Apt. #-----------
.Zip.
.?GPA_
Navy Officers 
Get Responsibility Fast.
