The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 23, April 19, 1983
ecision to be appealed^ST placed on probation
members of Beta and ATO were also there. 
The reports are very incomprehensive . . . 
[you] cannot tell who is guilty, commented 
Marom.
rats lack fire alarms
Us winning again 
*le Sox in West...
nnies..,.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Administrators hypocritical with computer limit
Well, here we go again. Once more, the 
administration has failed to communicate its 
intentions to the students who will most be 
affected by their decisions, and there seems to 
be nothing the students can do about it.
Computer U is now restricting access to 
computers, while promising (or threatening, 
depending on your point of view) to immerse 
the campus in personal computers by 1986. 
According to a new policy issued by Doug Van 
Houweling last week, students will no longer 
be able to login on the micom (which is the 
only connection to the computers available to 
students and most faculty) if the load on the 
system is too high. In other words, if a certain 
number of people are already using the system, 
no one else will be able to do so.
This is only one in a series of moves planned 
by Van Houweling to force students to use 
personal computers. One hundred IBM per
sonal computers have already been bought and 
will be set up in terminal rooms when students 
return from summer vacation. Students will be
encouraged to use the personal computers for 
tasks such as editing, even though it may take 
up to half an hour to set up a four-page paper. 
Students will also find that the rates for using 
the main computers have risen again, but the 
amount they are allowed to spend will remain 
the same. This will be the second year in a row 
that this has happened.
These new restrictions, particularly the 
login limit, will not affect everyone. Certain 
terminals on campus are directly connected to 
the computers, and so do not have to go 
through the restricted micom. Most of these are 
used for important administrative matters, 
such as accounting, but many are available to 
administrators for private use as well.
This is hypocritical on the part of the admin
istrators, particularly Van Houweling. This 
university, known for its educational program 
in computing and its plan to open up compu
ters to everyone, is now telling students that 
they may not use the computers. The load 
restrictions are bad enough to interfere with
ne,
the completion of course work on time 
came completely unannounced. Yet 
administration is not concerned; they 
much more worried about integrating the 
sonal computers next year than solving 
years problems now. What will happen 
year when students are trying to adapt to 
new computers and Van Houweling 
already set his sights on something biggerp
The administration should step back ar 
consider the current needs of the students 
they are worried about over-using the mai 
computers, why dont they try to distribute 
work load? There are ways to tell the comput 
to run big programs at night so they wor 
inconvenience everyone else, but few peo 
use them. And perhaps there are too mi 
people assigned to the same computers; a mo 
even distribution is certainly possible.
But this would make Van Houweling inv< 
time and effort in computers which he alrea 
considers to be obsolete. We hope he doesi 
think the same of the personal computers on 
theyre here for good.
It's better than dying
Grads without jobs make profits with hot dog
By John Venzon
I wonder . . . what are the psychological 
effects of going to college for four years (at a 
head bustin tough school) and graduating 
with (gasp) no job offers? I mean not even a 
plant trip, perhaps not even a 
letter stating . . we will keep 
your resume on file. Would 
this make you mad, hot under 
the collar, steaming, burning red mad? I 
hope so, otherwise your drive is dead.
Or would it drive you crazy? Crazy 
enough to hold your breath until you die... 
wacko enough to pull out a razor and slash 
your wrist... nuts enough to bite the bullet 
via your brain? I hope not, otherwise, youll 
be dead.
Yet, today, at this very moment, some 
young, soon to be college grad who planned 
on being president of a major mega-buck 
corporation, is planning his future to end 
before it begins. He is making a choice of
what to do after school: there are no 6-digit, 
5-digit, or even 4-digit job offers waiting for 
him. The guy who planned on being the 
next Lee Iacoca cant even get a job in a 
mail room. Rather than paying off a loan 
and banking some money, hell watch his 
loan grow like a weed in manure. So based 
on what lies ahead, hell make a choice, the 
only logical choice. Hell quit.
Pull out the gun and quit. Pick up the 
razor and quit. Hold his breath . . .
Chances are that this young man wont 
read this column before he throws in the 
towel, but if youve made it this far, perhaps 
youve had some similar thoughts. Well, if 
so, just read a little further before you quit.
I have something Id like to tell you. Im 
not going to talk about the thousands starv
ing in Appalachia, nor will I tell you that 
the sun will still come up tomorrow. No, 
youll get no sympathy from me. My heart is
a stone; Im cold as ice.
But I want to give you a litde advice. Pull 
your ear close to my lips and listen and Ill 
tell ya the secret of a life-time. Listen good 
cause I cant say it too loud or everyone will 
know. Ready... listen, its two syllables, two 
words . . . here comes ... (quietly) hot dogs. 
What, you ask, Hot dogs?
Thats right, sell hot dogs on the street 
comer. If youre enterprising enough to be a 
president of a major corporation, you 
should be able to sell lots of dogs. (And if 
you cant, youd probably make a lousy pres, 
anyway.) Heres some more advice. Be 
innovative: maybe spice em up with some 
chili or kraut, perhaps sell em under a big, 
multi-colored umbrella.
Once youre selling these dogs, save a few 
bucks for future investments, maybe you can 
multiply, open another stand. Then youll 
make more money (just like McDonalds). 
Oh, its not that easy. Youll need insurance
in case someone chokes on a big dog, 
youll have to pay your help, clean upyi 
grill and perhaps even do some promoti 
(yelling  Get your red hots.)
To some people, selling hot dogs on 
comer could be degrading. Theyll th 
that everyone would be laughing at the 
Who would ever want to be friends w 
someone who ran a hot dog stand? W 
would ever want to date someone whostc 
on a comer all day with a big umbre 
Who would ever want to marry and rail 
family with a guy named Mr. Hot Do 
If thats how you feel and you still feel 
quitting, just ask yourself one import 
question before you go: Who would 
want to be friends with a dead stiff King 
casket all day six feet under?
Thelrt:
Numbers too important in life
By Orpheus Allison
Well, the day of the numbers has arrived. 
Now one finds out what is due the govern
ment and what the government thinks is his 
worth. It is fine to be able to tell somebody/
how much one is worth in dol
lars and cents. And for many of 
us, this figure  even to include 
inflation  would be about two 
bits. It is sad that in this age of supposed 
modernity, people find it more and more 
necessary to link themselves to the finite 
world of numbers.
Those wonderful serifs that heralded a 
new age into mankinds world now control 
it to the extent that man cannot be judged by 
what he says but rather by the collection of 
numbers that he produces. It is not just the 
one number for official identification, or the 
number of ones home and respective 
phone. Now, there must be a number for 
everything. The time and place you were 
bom in, the order in which you select your 
classes, the license number for your drivers 
license, and the number tagged to you in the 
morgue when your number has come up.
Numbers. Where do they lead us? 
Nowhere or everywhere? There are people
who believe that if you can find the ultimate 
equation to create life, then you have only to 
follow it through before you become a deity. 
How soon they forget that the greatest 
thinkers that mankind has ever seen, barring 
those who were writing before they could 
count, contributed something else besides 
numbers to society  men such as Aristotle, 
Socrates, Bacon, Newton, Descartes, and 
Einstein, to name only a few. These men, 
while remembered for their contributions to 
the fields of numbers, at no time reneged on 
their responsibility to mankind.
All of them offered some means of 
humanizing the field that they had created. 
Each wrote about his discoveries in such a 
manner that mathematics became a field of 
the humanities. And yet, it has now been 
corrupted by pseudo-sciences. Sciences that 
try to explain everything that happens to 
man in numbers and numbers alone. The 
terms now are trends and percentages. In 
other words, meaningless drivel from the 
students of Gallup and his cronies.
People in the past have tried to assess the 
world in numbers, witness the controversy 
of Galileo and his contemporaries. And it 
was the one mathematician of the twentieth 
century who summed up what could not be
said with numbers, The most comprehens
ible thing about the universe is that it is so 
incomprehensible.
This person did not resort to tired cliches 
of E = me2; instead he chose to express that 
concept in a way that all people could 
understand. He did not use ambiguity and 
figures to say what he wanted to say. Instead 
he chose prose to express himself to others. 
Those who seek to explain the world today 
should take their example from this man, 
and cease to relegate the world to numbers.
And those of you who think that as usual 
I am off the wall with my commentary, I 
will leave this message:
666
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editcnial Board. Letters to the editor are opinions of indnndual authors 
who are usually members of the Vnwersity commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone number for 
imfication. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan resenrs the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Editor in Chief.......................... Monica Ce
Managing Editor.........................Gregg Bo
Business Manager........................ Kathy Wi
News Editor...........................Joanne Sau
Features Editor....................... Pauline Ka
Entertainment Editor.....................,Susan Pf
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Berga
Photography Editor....................Steve Wi
Production Manager............Carolyn Sp
Ad Manager.................................Bonnie ^
Typesetting Manager.....................PaM ^
Art Director...........................Michael Su^
Contributing Editors.....................Alice Atf
Vince CmLouise Cra
Assoc. Ent. Editor.......................Jhn ^
Assistant Business Mgr..................... I ara
Assistant News Editors................Chris J0^
Pauline"
Asst Features Editor .................MomCaj|
Asst. Sports Editor...........................&c ^
Asst Production Mgr.......................
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Doug Blaft 
Eissler, Esther Filderman, Andrew GhaliSafier.
Copyright  1988 by The Tartan. The Exiitonal 
reserves the light to withhold from public* copy it deems utifit for publication. Editona Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skj (412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2! 1^ address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh P 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1983The TartanPage 3
Uswiwnga*
Nate will be frivolous
for rest of the year
Fundraisers thanked
Editor
We would like to take this opportunity to 
thank all the Camegie-Mellon students who 
volunteered their time to help the university 
in its fund raising efforts. Over 300 students 
volunteered to serve as callers in phonathons in the 1982-83 academic year.
Annual gifts from alumni, raised by stu
dent and alumni volunteers, are used for 
major capital projects on campus sue i as 
the renovation of classrooms, laboratories 
and practice rooms. Last year, the CMU 
Fund raised $2.6 million. Our goal for this 
year is $3.025 million.
Phonathon volunteers are the mainstay of 
the annual fund each year and their hard 
work on the telephones is a key to our suc
cessful campaign. For this reason we wish to 
extend our deepest appreciation to the 
Camegie-Mellon student volunteers fot 
their support.
We would also like to use this public 
fomm to recognize members of the Class of 
1983 who have pledged $12,195 (as of 
3/13/83) over three years to add a free
standing campus clock and message center 
to the universitys physical plant. Fifteen 
class members served as the fund raising 
volunteers on the committee chaired by 
Jana Caras. College chairmen are: Lane 
Bess, H&-SS; Jim Bost, AMS; Phil Nemy, 
CFA; Craig Scott, QT; Scott Whitman, 
MCS. The 1983 Senior Class Gift Campaign 
will be remembered for what it has added to 
campus life and will likely set the stage for 
alumni support in the future.
Alvin P. Brannick 
Vice President for Development 
Susan C. Stitt, Staff 
Carol A. Carter, Staff 
Sandy Waterkotte, Staff 
Linda H. Schumacher, Staff
$25.000+Impact of high-paying jobs shown
4.) A probable visit from the 
neighborhood police At Your Ser
vice, most likely called by the 
neighbors to the right because hose to the left will be at the party.
You are encouraged this week to call the lice (except for Thursday night) under the ilias of Robert Johnson and report that the ys at 5549 Beeler Street are disturbing the leace. If wolf gets called enough, maybe the lice wont come on Thursday. Everyone s invited to this party and thus everyone has stake in not getting arrested (inddently the mlty for false police reports is probably 
mder $1000 and subject to no more than 30 lays in prison). If the police do come tell hem that you dont know who is throwing he party but you will be happy to take a 
nessage.
Part 2.) The win a date with Nate contest 
ras a roaring success. Ill give you a hint as 
a who the winner was. Her initials are Jean 
ischback - woops! (the rumors are conirmed). The evening began quiedy with a 
lon-chauffeur driven, non-motorcycle 
noped escorted Mustang II (now clearly disinuishable by the $780 dent in the rear
Editor:
For seniors who have $25,000+ job offers, I 
would like to highlight the magnitude of 
this large sum of money by noting that it is 
possible to buy:
8333 $3 albums at the Graveyard. 3125 
records at more expensive places.
5896 Little Italy pizzas; 4545 Dominos 
pizzas (no free drinks!)
2 years of CMU education (maybe). One 
year for your kids.
50,000 Cokes (for staying awake during 
late-night, early-morning studying.)
250 IBM shares (theyll go up once we 
start buying personal computers.)
5000 calls home (assuming that you 
dont live in Australia). This does not apply 
to people who live in NJ who have their 
folks pay.
15 seconds of commercial time during 
the Superbowl.
58 one way trips to California (arent all 
seniors looking for the good life?). 625
round trips to Newark (make sure theyre 
ROUND trips).
4,833,333 and 1/3 (plain!) M&Ms given 
that a small bag costs 30 cents and there are 
58 of the litde things in there (I will gladly 
repeat the counting experiment to get better 
statistical results as long as we get to eat 
them afterwards).
Yet, it is important to note how far we still 
have to go: Johnny Carson makes $2 mil
lion per year, and since he works only 200
Editor #
As a Jewish student and a food service 
employee, I am responding to an unneces
sary misrepresentation by Mitchell Grey 
(Letters 4/12) concerning Food Service and 
one of its employees. In his letter, Mr. Grey 
stated that for the Jewish holiday Passover, 
Food Service didnt make an attempt 
beyond putting boxes of matzoh on the 
counter. This in fact is not true. While the 
greatest selection was not always available, 
there was something that was within the 
dietary restrictions at every serving meal at 
Kiltie.
days per year (he takes off Mondays; maybe 
you do too, but he doesnt show up!), he 
earns your yearly salary in 2.5 DAYS. On the 
other hand, you will be able to save up 
$100,000 in only 4 years, if you dont eat, pay 
taxes or do anything else.
Congratulations to all those who made it 
through the 4 years; you finally lived up to 
the CMU dream: MONEY.
In reference to Ms. Koch, Mr. Greys ver
bal attack was unjust As Mr. Grey stated, on 
the last day of passover, there was indeed a 
shortage of matzoh, however Ms. Koch 
responded quickly by sending an employee 
down to the Giant Eagle to get more mat
zoh. Unfortunately the employee came back 
with matzoh that was not kosher for Pas
sover. Ms. Koch is one of the busiest people 
in Kiltie and should be cofnplimented on 
her dedication to the students here. Only 
giving the partial situation was an unfair 
thing to do. I think an apology is due.
Glenn S. EliasADMINISTRATION '-S
Daniel H. Miller 
Senior, Applied Math/Comp Sri
Food service attack wrong
By Nate Solano
If you hadnt figured it out yet, I have 
made the decision to refrain from writing 
more columns of substantial subject 
at least until next year. Most persons 
have too many worries at this 
time to have them reminded of 
further troubles. Thus read and 
be amused, indifferent, or mad, 
)Ut dont read in the intense matter by 
tfhich you study.
part 1.) Continuing in the pursuit of 
revenge for Rob and Joe, there will be a 
pgrty at their house (5549 Beeler Street) on 
Thursday night of this week. The general 
is to make as much noise as possible as 
ate into the night as possible because the 
neighbor who looks like an MBA must 
awake for work on Friday morning. Festivities will include:
1.) 4 kegs of beer.
2.) 1 barking puppy.
3.) A performance of the 1812 
Overture complete with live explo
sives to enhance the concluding 
cannons.
quarterpannel that I received at the hands 
(bumper) of a Pitt Law student at the inter
section of Sennot and Bouquet. I bet that a 
Harvard, Stanford, or even Duquesne Law 
student wouldnt have run the stop sign. 
Whats more, the guy refuses to give me his 
insurance policy number or his drivers reg
istration and then he has the audacity to call 
me and tell me that he has decided that the 
accident was my fault but still refuses to give 
me his insurance policy number. I hadnt 
even been angry at the accident scene. In fact 
I understood why he didnt wish to handle 
this via his insurance company in that prices 
are so high for younger drivers and conceded 
to handle the situation personally if he 
would be hurt badly by the insurance report. 
Now he decides to take advantage of me. I 
told my insurance agent the story and he 
says that well fry him. So much for conge
niality. Inddently this has nothing at all to 
do with the date and occurred 5 days after
ward.) pulled into the parking lot of an 
off-campus apartment complex which was 
not the home of Jean. Well, I thought to 
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 19, 1983
A ni ma! activists badger researchers
(CPS) Even if he wanted to, Dr. Wallace 
Houser may not be able to get into work on 
April 24. Animal rights advocates plan to 
have thousands of people picketing out
side Housers office, which is in the Univer
sity of Wisconsins Primate Research 
Center.
People protesting campus use of live 
animals for scientific research will also be 
demonstrating at the University of 
Califomia-Davis, Harvard and in Atlanta 
the same day, hoping to raise the stakes in 
their drive to control and end the research. 
The coalition is even supplying legal help 
for students who want to sue their schools 
for allowing vivisections or the imposition 
of pain on any animal.
In Congress, coalition members have suc
cessfully persuaded the House to pass stiffer 
standards for campus animal research, and 
have reasonable hopes of getting the more 
conservative Senate to approve them as well.
These events represent a significant sur
facing of the movement, which until now 
has been content quietly working behind 
the scenes and making occasional, dramatic 
nighttime raids on labs to free animals held
there for experimentation. In December, for 
example, raiders freed animals at Howard 
University and at Cal-Berkeley. Earlier in 
the term, there were similar raids at Penn 
and again at Maryland.
The coalition is also attempting to shut 
down the seven government-funded pri
mate research centers. The primate institutions arent producing meaningful 
information to benefit humans, claims 
John Hosum of the Seattle-area branch of 
PAWS (Progressive Animal Welfare 
Society). The whole thing is a sham, a 
waste of animal life and money.
The research is not relevant to the 
human condition, adds Wisconsin activist
Sue Anderson. The tie is tenuous at best 
The activists often push their case with 
vivid emotional appeals reminiscent 
some anti-abortionists. There is a doctor in 
Cleveland who has produced a whole careet 
out of chopping monkeys heads off ari( 
sewing them on other monkeys, says Alex 
continued on dMany students know little about defense
Editor:
While writing the series of articles for The 
Tartan on defense issues based on a survey I 
conducted, I tried to be as unbiased in my 
reporting as possible.
In general, however, I was appalled by the 
lack of knowledge people displayed. In fact 
the validity of at least some parts of the 
survey could be questioned because so few 
CMU students know what they are talking 
about. While taking the survey, I found that 
the less people knew, the more opinionated 
they were (a general truth, Im afraid).
Although I dont expect students to fol
low the news closely I was surprised by how 
few people were aware of the seriousness of
More contracts ridiculous
Editor
As usual, you have managed to hit some 
nails right on the head, while managing to 
hit your thumbs a few times. Youre right, 
the contract and Vali-dine system is in an 
awful state, and its ridiculous making 
Morewood a contract facility. Renovations, 
on the other hand, are needed. Obviously 
you dont eat in Salads; it is terribly over
crowded and needs more space. (It may not 
seem crowded now, but thats because eve
rybodys out on the hill.) And with more 
space, they might be able to provide enough
for a well-balanced, healthful meal (which 
they do a pretty good job at now). As for the 
interior decoration of Kiltie, would you 
want to eat in a place that looked like it had 
rats? And I wonder if students really could 
run the cafeteria without mess-ups. Im not 
saying that Oscar Mayer & Co. are doing 
their jobs right, just that youve started beat
ing yourself a bit too hard. We do have to 
fight for our moneys worth.
John L. Woodworth 
Applied Math 85
OPEN
CABER CLUB
MARGARET
MORRISON
PLAZA
CMU TOTAL FITNESS FACILITY
CALL FOR AN APPOINTMENT 
OR A FREE WORKOUT 
OR JUST STOP IN 
AND SEE THE CLUB
FOR INFORMATION OR APPOINTMENT 
CALL 578-8876
HOURS 
MON.  FRI. 
SAT 
SUN.
10-10:00
10-6:00
12-6:00
the growing Soviet military threat to the 
western democracies. The numbers speak 
for themselves: in Europe, NATO has
13.000 tanks while the opposing Warsaw 
Pact has 42,500 tanks. In artillery and rocket 
launchers the Soviet Empire is outproduc
ing us almost 9 to 1.
The following compares Soviet vs. U.S. 
production in the past ten years: 54,000 
tanks and armoured vehicles vs. 11,000;
2.000 ICBMs vs. 350; 6,000 tactical combat 
aircraft vs. 3,000. Since Vietnam the Ameri
can Navy has shrunk from over 1000 ships to 
about 450 today. Meanwhile, the Soviet 
Navy has grown from a coastal defense force 
into a powerful world-wide fleet.
Although there are many fine people in 
CFA I would like to pick on this college in 
particular. In all of the categories, CFA
was the least informed, most anti 
defense, and least likely to serve their 
country in its hour of need.
I was disgusted by the 24% of all the males 
surveyed who said they wouldnt serve ii 
they were drafted, even if the United States 
was at war with the Soviet Union. Most 
expressed to me an interest in saving their 
own skin rather than help protect the coun 
try which has given them everything.
It would seem that most people dont 
value their freedoms, or worse, take themfoi 
granted. This country, its open society, hij 
standard of living, opportunities and most 
importantly, its freedoms, are rare things in 
this world. I feel that if someone isnt wil
ling to defend it then they dont deserve it 
Clarke V. Simmons
Religious messages inappropriate
By Scott Safier
We see it around us Weekly. It comes to us 
through campus mail; it is on the fence; it 
has come to our rooms; it is preached in 
front of Doherty. What is it? It is religion on 
campus.
 When we accepted the offer to 
come to CML1, we accepted an 
offer to receive a quality educa
tion and training for a profes
sional career. What we did not agree to is 
receiving Jesus died for you through cam
pus mail or seeing HE loves you  Sunday 
mass  Freshman and Women invited 
painted on the fence. Also, if a person 
wanted a bible, hed buy one  he wouldnt 
need to pick up a new testament on the 
comer of Forbes and Morewood.
But please, dont misunderstnd. I am not 
arguing that religion is wrong. Everybody 
has the right to believe in the religion of his 
choice: Roman Catholic, Protestant, Luthe
ran, Judaism, Baptist, Moslem, Atheism,
etc. . . The argument is Why do somerel 
gious groups try to beat you over the heat 
with their message?
Historically, this has always been a proh 
lem. The crusades being the best example, 
But, some things change. The Roman 
Catholic church, in Vatica II, proclaimed 
that everyone has the right to the religion of 
his choice and trying to convert someone is 
wrong! If they can jump 400 years at ont 
conference, why cant other religions? Wh| 
must their truth appear for all to see 
the fence, or be preached in front of Doherty, 
or be sent to everyone through the ra 
(only to eventually litter the floor of the 
mailrooms)? If publicity is the object of the 
practices, posters are cheaper and Tartanads 
reach just as many people as does the fence
In conclusion, we all have different reh 
gious beliefs and practices; we all have the 
opportunnity to attend the services of ottf 
choice. Please respect these freedoms.
Nate dates contest winner
continued from page 3
myself, I guess this is the wrong place. Thus 
the date really began when a non-chauffeur 
driven, non motorcycle-moped escorted 
Mustang II (minus one $780 dent to the left
A charismatic 
prayer meetin 
every Friday 
night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Bellefield Ave. 
(Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Oakland, Pa. 
call Rege lor 
information; 
262-3950.
rear quarterpanel) pulled into the props 
apartment complex which shall reman 
nameless although you could find it in & 
C-Book.
END OF CHAPTER ONE
I will be in the office this week almostal 
of Tuesday and Wednesday due to assign
ments due on Wednesday and Thursday 
you wish to discuss your diminishing sanii 
with me I will tell you why Im worse 0 
My phone number is 687-6404 if you ha'{ 
any concerns or wish to leam more abod 
the aforementioned party.
NEXT WEEK: Chapter Two, 
Sweaty Palms and Trembling Legs 
Climbed the Steps. . .
Pregnant?
And you didn't 
mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1983The TartanPage 5
enior gift campaign ends 
\fter raising $ 12,650
I'fhe Class of 1983 is about to wrap up its 
nor Class Gift Campaign. This years 
or Class Gift, a freestanding campus 
A tower, will be located next to Skibo, on 
comer where the bulletin boards and 
te racks are currently located. The clock, 
|U have four faces enabling it to be seen 
different parts of campus, and will 
[lude bulletin boards at the base for camls notices..
eniors have raised $12,650 from 162 of 
Ljr classmates. Pledges of $100 to be ful
led over a three year period beginning in 
ne 1984 were accepted. Last years senior 
iss raised $5,500 from 61 students.
ie Senior Class Gift Committee, 
aired by Jana Caras (MCS), included a 
lan from each of the five undergradu: colleges - Lane Bess (H&SS), Jim Bost
(AMS), Phil Nemy (CFA), Craig Scott 
(CIT), Scott Whitman (MCS), along with 
eight other volunteers throughout the year.
Seniors held a contest among the colleges 
for the highest percentage of donors, with 
MCS currently in the lead. The cutoff date 
for the contest is Monday, April 25, and a 
party for the college that has the highest 
participation rate will be held.
Next years Senior Class Gift Committee 
will be forming before the close of this aca
demic year. Any interested junior is wel
come to come to an introductory meeting on 
Monday, April 25, on the fifth floor of 
Warner Hall at 4:00 pm. The 1983 commit
tee will be present to relate their experiences 
and give their suggestions for a successful 
campaign. Contact Linda Schumacher in 
the Development office, x2021, if you are 
interested in attending.
IYU offers grad program
ad enough of college and the academic 
ne? Dont be too sure. According to Dr. 
nes Bess, who is in charge of a graduate 
am for college administrators at New 
jirk University, the field of higher educai administration for those who are prop|y trained, is a field with definite career 
ential, job challenge, and opportunity 
| service.
I The old techniques just dont work anybre, according to Dr. Bess. The adminisItion of colleges and universities is a 
fetter of art and science, and both are 
light at NYUs graduate Program in 
her Education. Masters or doctorate 
es can be obtained by going part time 
he evenings. Classes are held at Washingt Square in the Village or out at NYUs 
npus center at C.W. Post on Long 
d. Course work covers such topics as
the psychology of college student develop
ment, politics of higher education, gover
nance of colleges and universities, faculty 
personnel policies, student personnel 
administration, etc. Research and education 
background courses plus a dissertation for 
the doctorate round out the curriculum.
Admission to the program is based on the 
Graduate Record Exam, recommendations, 
an interview and grade standing. While 
many students in the program are already 
practicing college administrators on their 
way up, the Program does accept applicants 
with only a bachelors degree.
For more information, write: Program in 
Higher Education, East Building, Room 
300, New York University, Washington 
Square, NYC 10003 or telephone (212) 598- 
2788.
photo by Christopher Johnston
pies waltzed to George Gee at the HfcSS Spring Fling.
Now
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower 
Pittsburgh. PA 15222 
(412) 562-1914
^ree Pregnancy testing daily. Call for hoLrs and 
lnstructions. Confidential counseling available.
s*
Women'sHealthServices
PREGNANT? Cali ata 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLINE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
908 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION 
INC
a non-profit organization
Protest of 'beastly abuse
STratrslc kfTi emNl w
Pacheco of the Mobilization for Animals in 
Washington, D.C.
The researchers themselves readily con
cede their experiments may appear cruel 
sometimes, but assert that it is necessary. I 
dont enjoy killing, says Dr. Vaughn 
Critchlow, head of the Oregon Regional 
Primate Center, which the coalition wants 
to shut down. I dont think any of my 
colleagues enjoy killing or hurting animals, 
but we dont see an alternative. Working on 
animals is preferable to human health prob
lems not being solved.
We have a student here who just gradu
ated from law school, Nathaniel Pallone, 
Rutgers head of research told College Press 
Service last spring, who learned to walk 
because of research we did here at the Insti
tute for Animal Behavior. Was it worth it for 
him? Youre damn right it was.
Most of our scientists are funded by 
highly-competitive (National Institutes of 
Health) grants, Critchlow adds. These 
arent given for mundane, mediocre 
research. This is a good measure of the kind 
of work we do.
The people who come in here are dedi
cated scientists who review (grant proposals) 
to promote their fields, not themselves, 
counters Dr. Leo Whitehair, director of the 
National Institutes of Health primate 
research program.
The coalition  which draws from 14 
countries besides the U.S.  hopes to get 
stiffer standards through Congress, cut 
funding for the primate centers and place an 
animal rights advocate on the centers 
boards before ultimately closing them 
down.
Wisconsins Houser thinks having an 
advocate on the board is a good idea. The 
problem is whether or not that person is able 
to comment intelligently on research. 
Critchlow also worries that theyre not in a 
position to understand research, and they 
would just act as adversaries.
It is right and proper that animals be 
treated humanely, Houser says. What 
worries me is that some of these people may 
be anti-science. Houser thinks the primate 
centers would not necessarily be harmed by 
more public scrutiny, as long as academic 
freedom was secured. Academic freedom 
stops at which point animal abuse begins, 
b adds.
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cons (& quarts)
STROHS
10WENBRAU lt., Dk.,- bottles
MICHELOB
BUDWEiiER
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Teas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARKbottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALEbottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBSSteak  Corned Beef  Tuna  Turkey
SANDWICHESHoddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sausage Veal  Chuck  Chicken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMSSteak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments Puzo served till 3 am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICESServing beer Sunday 1 pm-2 om Imports. Cans Quarts. Draft Pitchers Mugs Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB STROHS  MILLERS  SCHIITZ MALTOne different 16 02 6 pk featured each weekSTROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHIITZ OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
ImportsBECK'S It Ok -Germany BASS ALE  England HARP LAGERIrelond MOLSON GOLDEN -Canodo HEINEKEN It 0k -Hollond 10WENBRAU-Germany 0 KEEFE ALE-Conado PILSNER URQUELL-Cjech KIRINJopanMACKESSON STOUT - li elond
ST PAULI GIRL-Germany DOS EQUIS XX- Mexico JOHN COURAGE  England WATNETSEngland CARLSSERG ELEPHANT - Den CARLSBERG ROYALE-Denmark CARLSBERG DARK Denmark TSINGTAO-Chino HACKER PSCHORR - Germany LABATTS-Conodo MURPHY - IrelandOLD VIENNA LAGER - Conodo COOPER & SON - Australia 55 LAGER-Conada FOSTER S LAGER Austrolio
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC.
Open
9am-3:45am Sun Thurs 
9am 4;45am Fri-Sat 
Call 621-7388 or 621 1185 
3901 Forbes Ave (Oakland) 
Pgh PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

vwct883fm
"Spring Carnival, the final frontier. These are the voyages of the 
starship WRCT Enterprise and its shuttle craft Galileo 88.3.
Its three-day mission: to exlpore strange new sounds, to seek 
out new music and new listeners, to boldly go where no FM station 
has gone before . .
Proaram GuideforSpring Carrvi/al
CUR
Ediidtor
0"*
9
-g,*
6
leniSwnc% o6?W*sV
eteS
t40'
S'
vAO
PSYCHEDELIC FURS LIBRARY
Let' e saels' kl e skbou'y' rpin u.Aiei+ da'l +kp 
opisaen' e SfL Mels' geiy+ y.st'yE Syko A+ ya' napyyu' 
/Cali eld i'g.ny'i 9 eEbE-3 oEbE ri.de+ (died.lg ksspin 3 
tHOH ey ya' napyyu') ki 9 eEbE-5 oEbE Seypide+ (died.lg 
ksspin 5 oEbE ey ya' napyyu')E
** 
yP&f* 
# a5c^
. o
< *c- QotA. . ew
><*
*V" 
<0*
# SHUTTLE CRAFT I WRCTrivia
the truck I Stop by the
WRCT DANCE PARTY
Syei dey': SeyE, Aoi.u 30 
Qpediely: St.Ak Beuuikkb 
Bkeid.lg oenn'n:
gpisaen'd ey ya' napyyu' siefy ki St.Ak Ilfk M'nt 
Spny'lels': Mpsak bplsa.'n
Elv.iklb'ly: Skpldn kf La' r.v', Sd''y Ou.v', Asypeu S.z' 
Lplei y.b': Mkkin ko'l ey 9:45, bpn.s A'g.ln ey 10 oEbE
eoye.l'n ukg: SfL 88E3 rM/SLEfEO, 621-SfL, 578-2883 
Syko A+ ya' yipst ri.de+, 5 oEbE 
fki ya' GfANM gfIZE TLINE;;NI(L MfASING 
Ykp b.gay deut ede+ d.ya el AM/rM sukst ied.kE
shuttle craft, answer some of our tricky trivia, and win a t-shirt or album.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Help is on the way for faculty
Fenton outlines plan for educating CMU's teachers
RIC MEDROW
farUtnAssistant Sports Editor
the
[hem
p0r years students have complained that 
jlthough CMU professors may be some of 
best researchers in the world, some of 
just do not know how to teach. Ted 
;enton, a Harvard Ph.D. who has been in 
r 1000 classrooms around the country, 
heard the outcry and is coming to the aid
0f students.
As Fenton says, I may not be a shining 
jiite knight, so dont start listening for 
hoofbeats. But, Im doing the best I can to 
improve teaching.
An even more impressive indicator of 
'eritons ability to head up CMUs new 
reaching Center than statistics or academic 
legrees was his performance in explaining 
iis plans last Thursday. There sat a highly 
impressive group of CMUs top administraors in the GSIA Auditorium looking like 
they were awaiting their Final Judgement. 
iVithin five minutes Fenton had turned the 
Troup of tense administrators into relaxed, 
interested people.
The Director of the Teaching Center 
started by coming down off of his podium 
and sitting on a railing and telling the 
group that people who say that students 
are poor judges of their teachers are wrongthey are just wrong! What our research told 
matched what the students told us 
exactly.
Fentons research told him that there were 
four basic problems with teaching at CMU: 
Learning Time, Feedback, Instructional
Cues, and Evaluation. Translated into plain 
English, each title boils down to simple 
things that .good teachers could do better 
and poor teachers could do well.
Learning Time includes increasing active 
student participation. As any good actor 
knows, if you dont include your audience 
in the act, they probably wont pay atten
tion. As David N. Tobin of Emory Univer
sity says, You dont have to be a frustrated 
actor or ham to be a good teacher, but you do
have to know how to control your voice, 
emotions, and body as actors do.
Teachers have to increase interest value by 
making references to the outside world, 
relating material to other classes, and relat
ing materials to career expectations. Fenton 
relates, This one shouldnt be too hard at 
the school that calls itself the Professional 
Choice, but youd be surprised at how easy it 
is to get lost in theory.
Weekly and daily classroom activities
photo by Bob Fischel
In the GSIA Auditorium last Thursday, President Richard Cyert heard some ideas of Profes
sor Ted Fenton, the Director of CMUs Teaching Center, as the latter discussed plans of 
action for improving the quality of teaching at Camegie-Mellon.
Solomon amendment scorned
By KATHLEEN HEGARTY
Special for The Tartan
On September 1, 1982, President Reagan 
signed into law the Solomon Amend
ment which would require male college 
students to prove that they have registered 
or the Selective Service before receiving any 
ederal financial aid. Guidelines drawn by 
the Department of Education stipulated that 
male students between the ages of 18 and 22 
nust complete a form stating that they have
registered and must also turn in a letter from 
the Selective Service acknowledging their 
registration.
The universities were required to attach 
the Selective Service Registration Com
pliance form to existing financial aid 
forms and to verify that the student turned in 
their acknowledgment within 120 days of 
awarding aid.
The law is scheduled to go into effect July 
1, 1983, but in response to pressure from
Army ROTC students tour 
Fort Belvoir, Virginia
By PAUL SEPE
facial for the Tartan
This summer, second year Army ROTC 
tudents will make an important decision 
about their future: whether to continue in 
*0TC and incur a service obligation. To 
help these students make an 
informed decision, the Pitts
burgh ROTC Instructor Group 
arranged a trip to Fort Belvoir, 
uginia, for first- and second-year Military 
'oence students from Duquesne, Pitt, and 
^U.
Fort Belvoir, about 15 miles southwest of 
Washington, is the home of the Army Corps 
>f engineers. All Cadets who are accepted 
11(0 the engineer program will train here, at 
^ Engineer Officer Basic Course (OBC).
arrived at about 11:30 p.m., chose rooms, 
luads and doubles in the World War II 
lntage barracks. These building, normally 
'acant, are used to house reservists in annual 
raining, or in case of war, would house 
hse called up in mobilization.
Wake-up was enthusiastically called by 
cadre at 5:30 Friday morning. We ate 
Vlth the soldiers a palatable breakfast for 
)nlV 75 cents, and then went on a tour of the 
parried enlisted quarters, and the mediuns mechanical section. We were
impressed by the quality knowledgeability of 
the personnel, particularly the noncommis
sioned officers, and the equipment on hand, 
every piece of which there was a duplicate in 
Germany. The enlisted quarters were 
suprisingly livable. Privates lived in large, 
well-appointed triples, higher ranks in dou
bles, all of which were personalized to a 
great degree by the occupants.
Next we went to Camp A. P. Hill, about 
30 miles South, and saw the OBC in pro
gress. The students there were learning 
standard military skills, as well as combat 
engineering. We saw tank traps, barbed wire 
emplacements, and other obstacles designed 
to slow the enemy down long enough for us 
to get a few good shots off.
That evening, we went to old town Alex
andria, where we were set free for about 5 
hours. Most of us dined and took advantage 
of Virginias drinking age and got to know 
our fellow cadets, then explored this beauti
ful colonial area.
Saturday, after a couple of hours of sleep,
we toured the residential part of the base.
Forget what you have seen on TV about the
living conditions of military personnel.
Unmarried officers live alone in townhousecontinued on page 9
colleges and students across the country, the 
Department of Education is now revising 
the rules which students must follow, prop
osing that students will have to submit only 
the form stating whether or not they have 
registered and will not have to provide addi
tional proof. The universities have also been 
relieved of the responsibility of verifying the 
students registration.
The question of the laws constitutional
ity has also caused much controversy. As a 
result of a suit filed by the University of 
Minnesota, Swarthmore and the American 
Civil Liberties Union, a federal judge has 
granted a temporary injunction blocking its 
enforcement.
The constitutionality of the new law is 
being challenged on the grounds that: 1) it is 
discriminatory against sex, age and income; 
2) it violates the right to protection against 
self-incrimination; 3) it violates the right of 
due process.
Tom Kerr, president of the Pittsburgh 
chapter of the ACLU and a GSIA faculty 
member comments, The law is clearly dis
criminatory in that it punishes only males 
between the ages of 18 and 22 who do not 
have enough money to pay for college. It 
violates the students rights by forcing them 
to provide the information that could possi
bly incriminate themselves.
Walter Cathie, CMUs Director of Finan
cial Aid, believes that refusing the students 
financial aid denies them due process of law 
by punishing them before it has been 
proven in court whether they have viol ted 
the Selective Service law.
Cathie is unhappy with the position that 
the university will be in. The universities 
are being linked to the military. The govern
ment is using financial aid as a lever to force 
students to register and we are required to 
act as police since we have to turn in the 
names of those that have not registered to the 
Department erf Education.
But Cathie is pleased with the recent 
continued on page 10
should be varied so that you dont do the 
same thing in class every day. If you dont 
try a change of pace every ten minutes or so, 
students are going to start thinking about 
their plans for the rest of the day.
Increase active learning time. If students 
dont attend class or the teacher wastes ten 
minutes playing with blackboards, that is 
time that students are not learning.
Other problems that students and 
research indentified included poor marking 
procedures, organizing lectures and discus
sions into several main points, and evaluat
ing courses and teaching techniques earlier 
in the semester.
Fenton exclaims, If all a teacher does 
when he hands back a research paper is 
write awk in the margin, it just doesnt 
help a student to leam.
The Teaching Genter plans to implement 
an eight point program as of next year 
which includes preparing graduate and 
undergraduate students for their instruc
tional responsibilities, preparing new 
faculty members by providing seminars, 
improving present faculty with monthly 
seminars, sending out newsletters, provid
ing trouble shooting whenever it comes to 
the attention of the teaching center that spe
cific teachers are having problems, depart
mental retreats in order to provide time for 
teachers to discuss teaching problems 
within their disciplines, staffing the center 
with permanent faculty members for short 
time periods rather than setting up an 
continued on page 9
photo by Bob Fischel 
This sister of Kappa Alpha Theta took her 
turn sitting on the pole, as the Thetas and 
Theta Xi brothers concluded their efforts 
today to raise money for multiple sclerosis.
SARA helps 
architects
Architectual students across the country 
will have the opportunity to compete for 
three work internships worth a total of 
$4,000 in the 1983 Student Design Competi
tion sponsored by the Society of American 
Registered Architects (SARA).
The first, second and the third place prizes 
consist of work internships valued at $2,000, 
$1,500 and $500, respectively.
In previous years, we awarded cash 
prizes, said Jerome Salzman, student 
design awards chairman, and president of A. 
L. Salzman and Sons, Inc. This year we 
decided to award work internships because 
it places the winners in working situations 
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanApril 19, 1983
Survey concludes
Would you enlist or serve to war against the Soviets?
By CLARKE V. SIMMONS
Tartan Staffivriter
This is the last of three articles based on a 
survey of CMU students. The survey of 103 
students, 46 males and 57 females, was con
ducted campus-wide; a cross-section of stu
dents in all five undergraduate colleges.
In this final article the issues of the draft 
and wartime enlisting in the armed forces 
are discussed.
The top bar graph depicts the percentage 
of people who would serve if they were 
drafted tomorrow. Interestingly, the percen
tages of females and males who would serve 
is about equal.
The middle graph shows the percentages 
of people who would serve in the armed 
forces if they were drafted under two differ
ent scenarios. The right bar graphs go 
with the "American troops fighting in Cen
tral America scenario. Response to the 
second scenario of America being at war 
with the Soviet Union is shown in the solid 
black bar graphs. Surprisingly a higher per
centage of females would serve.
The bottom graph is similar to th middle 
graph except the question is whether or not 
you would enlist under the two aforementi
oned scenarios.
American troops fighting 1 in Central 
America was a scenario devised to test postVietnam sentiment. However the other 
situation where the United States is at war 
with the Soviet Union is a case where the 
country is clearly in grave peril.
In all the situations the following was 
assumed: women would not serve in com
bat, college students could serve as officers 
and the alternative to the draft is jail or 
self-imposed exile.
Percentage of people who would serve if drafted:
Male Female CIT MCS AMS CFA H&SS
Percentage of people who would serve the U.S. in Central America or tht 
Soviet Union:
|89%~EES80%
Percentage of people who would enlist to fight for Central America or agains 
the Soviet Union:
22% 20%25%
8%
40%

|o%_
20%15%
Attention!
Job Openings 
(no pay)
MCS and GSIA 
Senate Vacancies
Any Activities Fee Paying MCS/ GSIA 
Student is Eligible 
Petitions available, Skibo Informa
tion Desk
Due 4/28 at 5 p.m.
Funded by Acticities Fee
A/ESEC provides training
BY KAREN JEWELL
Special for The Tartan
Christina Banze of AIESEC at CamegieMellon recendy returned from Frankfurt, 
Germany, where she attended the Interna
tional Congress. The congress occurs annu
ally and serves as the central process of 
matching AIESEC committee members 
with jobs around the world. The traineeships give the student work experience in a 
job related to his field of study.
Most of AIESECs matches this year were 
made to European companies. Cindi Pinzar 
of Duquesne University will be working for 
Larson Ltd. in Dublin, Ireland, doing gen
eral accounting. Former Vice President of 
Exchange Christina Banze will be traveling 
to London for the year. She will be involved 
in a special project, designing and updating 
computer programs for Pear Publications.
Susan Flickinger, local committee presi
dent of AIESEC-CMU, will be working for 
Wood Mackenzie and Co. in Edinburgh, 
Scotland. During her three-month stay, she 
will be involved in development of a project 
applying modem portfolio theory and 
research.
Seven students will be located in Scandi
navia. Robert Kubat of Indiana University 
of Pennsylvania is one of two trainees who 
will work in Sweden. He will be employ 
at Rederi AB Transatlantic in Goteborg. 
Also in Sweden, former Vice President o 
Finance Aline Waters will be doing general 
marketing and management for Nykroppa 
Bruk AB in Nykroppa.
Three trainees will be working for com
puter service companies in Finland. Mari
anne Vakiener will spend eleven weeks 
Kaakontieto Dy in Lappeenranta. Mi 
Rosenblatt will be located in Turku, work 
ing for Scansoft Oy, and Robert Andrejto 
former vice president of alumni relations, 
will be in Jyvaskyla, working for Procon 
Oy Cad Can.
The remaining trainees in Scandinavia 
were matched through AIESEC-CMl* 
twinning arrangement with the AIESEC 
committee in Oslo, Norway. Each year, tfc 
Camegie-Mellon and Oslo commit^5 
arrange and direct matches outside of cofr 
gress. This year, Dean Galvin was match0 
to a job doing general accounting at Ho 
Scandinavia. The other twinning ma 
went to Robert Powers, who will spends 
weeks working for Den Norske as a con 
continued on pafl
Allegheny Womens Centeri/i out pai/ent mcdicdl clinic offering* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests personal counseling * birth control services* gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Both i Mitt br op+n daily lor prrgfum y Ifsh And founM-ltng.
Allegheny 
Womens 
Center
Mrdkil Center (I Building Penthouse Right (8th floor) 211 North Whittieid Street Pittsburgh, PA 152.
Marcello's Typing Service
Sp9cutki9s in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive tetters 
(TurabtanAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service)
10% discount with coupon

---------------------------------------------------

!
::
I
April 19, 1983The TartanPage 9
r. OngFather/writer oratesalks about technologies of writing
pOUG GRAUEL
Staffuner
Walter Ong, S.J., of St. Louis Univer
sas presented in the Presidents Distinshed Lecture Series last Thursday. Ongs 
was titled Writing is a Technology that 
structures Thought, and examined paral - 
between the effects of the technologies of 
ting, pnnt arM* electronics on thought, 
"he talk related ideas from Ongs latest 
Jc, Orality and Literacy, to ideas on the 
writing as a technology affects 
ught. The books main emphasis is on 
differences between oral and literate culs. Oral cultures, those without writing, 
writing as inflexible because once a 
ught is committed to paper, it does not 
nge  thoughts on paper are laid bare. 
Cultures which adhere to an oral means 
ommunicating and maintaining ideas 
ughout the years do not easily accept the 
oduction of writing to their lives. Litercultures, on the other hand, now have 
ting so interiorized that it is often overked as a way of life that is taken for 
ited. Writing, Ong says, has become part 
ur consciousness.
ng began by discussing the objecs of Socrates and Plato to the advent of 
ting. Writing was then seen as someig that would stifle ideas instead of 
moting them, Ong said. Oral cultures do 
develop extensive analytical abilities 
use in such cultures memory must be 
ed upon to retain information, 
toe to inaccuracy and a tendency to use 
recise means of description such as proand epithets, analytical thought 
ply does not arise until writing allows 
iple to step back from their thoughts 
le maintaining the closest possible proxty to them and preserving and modifythem through writing. Curiously 
ugh, the very methods which enabled
criticism of writing to be in depth and ana
lytical were developed through writing 
itself, Ong said.
Much like writing, print created a fear of 
new technologies when it drastically 
expanded the reach of written expression, 
Ong said. Written documents are hard to 
reproduce quickly, and much accuracy is 
lost over the years when dealing with 
manuscripts. Prior to the invention of print, 
written documents were not easy for the 
public to obtain, and the public was often 
largely illiterate.
But print offered the possibility of wides
pread literacy and duplication of the written 
word. Many people saw print as a tool that 
would take over even more the tasks of mem
orization than writing had, thus weaken
ing peoples minds through a deference to 
print rather than a commitment to memory.
DR. WALTER ONG, S.J.
10TC sees life in Capitol
tinued from page 7
apartments in an extremely attractive 
ghborhood. Up the street are the married 
icers houses, which were all large and 
comfortable-looking. In addition, all 
litary personnel have the option of living 
base, with the expenses subsidized. The 
cers club was next. It is in a beautiful 
tion overlooking the Potomac, and was 
?er than we had expected. The commisor grocery store, was huge, covering 
ft acres; and the PX was actually a shopg center, with lawns and very attractive 
ldings. The prices were very low, and the 
es were all well-equipped and extremely 
Managed.
turday afternoon, we visited Ft. Myers, 
lngton. There we visited the Old Guard 
^um, and saw the horses and caissons 
lch cany our dead to Arlington Ceme> including that which bore President 
nedys body. At the cemetery, the Ser1 of the Guard of the Tomb of the 
known Soldier guided us through the 
ds living quarters, and we watched the 
perfect precision with which the men 
tfd the Tomb.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call:
oxWtox.t
Mkdlykdl ggaE 562-0543
o'ev'i kply+ 843-0505
Mkl Veuu'+ 489-9020
Bpyu'i kply+ 282-1200
Ready for Finals?
Free personal tutoring available.
For more information contact Amy 
Ciric
Monday-Thursday 7-10 p.m. in PH 
126A
Viewing the introduction of writing in 
ancient times as the introduction of a tech
nology, Ong pointed out likenesses between 
arguments against the computer revolution 
today and those that were raised against the 
writing revolution years ago. Many people 
view technology as a constraint that limits 
and confines; Ong sees technology instead 
as a tool that can increase human freedom.
Recent revolutions in electronic technol
ogy have led people to fear that they are 
being controlled by machines. Ongs argu
ment is that people control machines  
machines only respond to human 
commands. The danger, as Ong sees it, is 
that we will think we are machines, and in 
this way will misuse machines. Addressing 
the issue of dehumanization as a result of 
technological change, Ong contended that 
all cultures dehumanize in their own way  
Dehumanization comes from within us.
Developing his point, Ong said that tech
nologies are interior transformations of con
sciousness, and by altering the ways in 
which we think, technology raises our con
sciousness. Ong sees writing as a technology 
that helps to shape thought by allowing the 
writer to preserve and therefore more effec
tively track out his thoughts.
Ong said that text has to be reconverted 
into sound, either mentally or aloud, before 
it is actually understandable, and therefore 
writing can in a way act as an extension of 
the oral tradition by allowing for the preser
vation and long-term modification of ideas. 
In this way, writing does not destroy the 
traditions of oral cultures  writing allows 
the presentation of oral traditions yet adds 
an analytical dimension to thought.
Relating the electronic revolution in tech
nology that the computer represents to his
theme, Ong sees the computer as a technol
ogy that is becoming more and more interi
orized as people grow accustomed to using 
computers. Those who use computers regu
larly have made computers part of their con
sciousness, Ong said, and therefore view it as 
a technology that enhances thought, not sti
fles it.
Ong sees peoples reactions to computing 
as changing in the future. After the same 
initial negative reaction that writing and 
print both received, people will gradually 
accept the computers intervention into 
their lives, he said. As with all technological 
change, it seems that computers will take 
some getting used to.
Profs to be 
videotaped
continued from page 7
expensive bureaucracy of administrators. 
The main thrust of the program will center 
around videotaping teachers in order to spe
cifically identify which problems a teacher 
has.
In closing, Fenton emphasized that he 
will not force teachers to use the Teaching 
Center for fear that it will get a reputation as 
a place where the bad teachers go. Furth
ermore, there will be no requirements or 
penalties placed on any teacher who uses the 
facilities, and all information will remain 
confidential. If we do that, says Fenton 
were going to become the big ogre behind 
a desk. In fact when we start out Id like to 
see more of our better teachers there so that 
everyone will know that the center is for 
everybody.
We had two hours of free time that after
noon in Washington. Most of spent it at the 
Smithsonian, the White House, and at the 
Lincoln and Washington memorials.
The highlight of our trip, for most of us, 
was the Officers Club that evening. There 
was a St. Patricks Day party there, which we 
all attended. After eating most of us went 
downstairs to the bar, where there was live 
entertainment, but others opted for Irish 
dance lessons in the dining room, more 
entertainment upstairs, or the quiet of the 
lounge.
We returned to Pittsburgh on Sunday, 
tired but extremely satisfied, and better 
equipped to make the decision about the 
Army. The trip got an excellent reaction 
from the Cadets, and will probably be 
repeated next year.
Todays Army must attract quality people 
to operate the high-tech equipment neces
sary for our, and our allies, survival. What 
we saw confirmed the statistics, that higher 
pay, better living conditions, and renewed 
patriotism are bringing well-motivated peo
ple into the military, and keeping them 
there.
Gerald Dworkin
Professor of Philosophy 
University of Illinois, Chicago
will present a lecture entitled
Reflections on the 
Hypodermic Needle: 
Doctors and 
Capital Punishment
Wednesday, April 20 
4 p.m. 
Porter Hall 125B
sponsored by the Program in Technology & Society

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 19, 1983
For financial aid, males must register
continued from page 7
change in the law. Before the Department 
of Education revised their regulations, we 
would have been faced with a substantial 
problem. A computer program would have 
had to be designed that would identify those 
students eligible for the draft, keep a chrono
logical trace of those who have passed the 
120-day deadline, and also trace those who 
would have their 18th birthday during the 
academic year. I estimate that it would have 
cost CMU $10,000 for the first year of 
compliance.
We still dont know how they are going 
to enforce the law, but the Department of 
Education apparendy is taking a great deal 
of the burden Off of the universities. Cathie 
emphasizes that the Education Depart
ments original proposals were unduly bur
densome to administer.
Kerr asserts, The Selective Service organ
ization is inept. They have no idea of how 
many people have not registered. They can
not enforce the law so they are forcing the 
universities to do their job. .
In order to prevent nonregistered students 
from dropping out of school, some universi
ties such as Yale and Dartmouth have 
decided to compensate students, who do not 
register, with other types erf aid. According 
to Cathie, CMU has not formalized a pro
gram to assist the affected students but there 
is a general agreement that they should con
tinue to receive CMU financial funds in a 
similar amount as if draft registration were 
completed.
Other universities are going to offer 
university-based loans that are not backed 
by the government. Although CMU doesnt 
yet have this type of loan, we expect to be 
able to offer it in the future to students who 
decide not to register and are denied federal
aid. But we will probably not be able to offer 
additional grants to take the place of federal 
grants. That would not be fair to the rest of 
the students because it would be taking 
away from a finite pool of aid money.
Cathie notes that the legality of giving 
these non-registered students aid is being 
questioned. A federal law dating from 
World Wrar I has been revealed which could 
prohibit institutional assistance. It states 
that anyone who assists a draft resister is also 
breaking the law. Compensating these stu
dents could be interpreted this way, making 
the university liable and possibly taking 
away the whole schools eligiblity for federal 
aid.
Offering these loans is not to encourage 
these students to break the law. We are just 
trying to prevent them from having to drop 
out of school because of this law.
The national debate about the law seems 
bound to continue. Acccording to the New 
York Times, Pennsylvania Representative 
Bob Edgar has introduced legislation to 
repeal the amendment on the grounds that 
the law creates a dangerous precedent for 
tests of loyalty.
Tom Kerr agrees: What this law is say
ing is that if you want privileges in this 
country, you must take an oath of loyalty to 
the government. It has the ring of 12th cen
tury mentality when citizens were forced to 
kneel to their rulers.
Anyone can take an oath, but are they 
loyal? Loyalty is not exacted by the govern
ment, it is won by the government.
Kerr is also concerned by possible future 
legislation. If they can hang this on the 
colleges they can hang it onto unemploy
ment, medical benefits or welfare.
Despite the growing concern over the
ramifications of the amendment no organi
zation or university in the Pittsburgh area is 
taking legal action against it.
Marian Damick of the Pittsburgh chapter 
of the ACLU says that she can only advise 
students to seek legal counsel if deciding not 
to register. The national committee is lob
bying to get the amendment repealed, but 
on the local level there is not much we can 
do other than to notify the universities how 
we stand.
CMU has already added the require 
tion to their financial aid applj^ 
Cathie says, Right now we are in the 
of informing the students of the conseq 
ces of this law and are working on a 
to implement it.
But we will do everything we 
prevent students from leaving school 
financial reasons because they have 
registered.
This article is reprinted from Focus,
cai
Architects compete for internship
continued from page 7
where they can gain valuable experience 
while being gainfully employed for a period 
of time in their field of interest. It is the 
beginning of sound practical experience 
upon which the students can build.
This years design problem is a municipal 
services building in New Orleans. Partici
pating architectural schools are encouraged 
to screen entries first before submitting the 
best five for judging at the SARAs national 
convention which will be held Nov. 2-6, 
1983 in New Orleans. Students, whose 
schools do not wish to participate, may enter 
individually.
Last years competition was won by 
three students from North Dakota State Uni
versity, and it was the first time in the Socie
tys history that one school captured all three 
awards, said Salzman. A total of 30 entries 
were received from schools around the coun
try, and certainly were indicative of the fine 
work being produced by some architectural 
students.
Most architectual schools require stu
dents to design a project in their senior year. 
The SARA design competition gives stu
dents the opportunity to fulfill an academic
requirement, as well as to have their 
measured against that of their peers.
Additional information about the di 
problem which lists all criteria, andruj 
the competition can be obtained by wij 
to: Mr. Jerome Salzman, c/o A. L. Salzn 
and Sons, Inc., 3524 W. Peterson Ave. 
cago, IL 60659.
Psych, series ends
A Blackboard Model for Control 
Cognition will be the topic of the 
given on Thursday, April 21, by Stanfo 
Dr. Barbara Hayes-Roth. The next Hi 
day, April 28, features another represem 
of Stanford, Dr. John Flavell, speaking 
the Development of the Appeaia 
Reality Distinction in Children.
The final two lectures offer talks by 
Robert Sternberg from Yale on May 5, 
cussing Novelty and Human Int 
gence; and Dr. Steven Pinko from I 
addressing the topic of A Theory of 
Acquisition of the Passive, on May
The 18th Annual Carnegie Syrapos 
on Cognition Origins of Cognitive Skill 
presented by Dr. Catherine Sophian, d 
man of the symposium, from May 25!
Don't just stand around, 
join our sea of smiling faces.
at The Tartan want your ta 
ents: writing, photography, layoi 
and business. Meetings are i 
7:30 Mondays in Skibo 13. If yo 
can't come, stop by Skibo 50 an
timf? Sundav.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
ew musical s relief for 
red minds
y GREGG BOSSLER
Managing Editor
^fter attending the opening night of 
-tch n Sodas new musical, Carried 
may, I overheard the person seated next to 
esum up the show perfecdy: Its painless, 
but its mindless.
The script by Mark -Levine, of 
Joe Freshman fame, had some 
genuinely hilarious scenes, 
nes with humor that fit very well with the 
acter saying it, but at times Levine hom
ed the audience with humor much like 
novice stand-up comic, inserting some 
1 funny stuff. I could almost hear the 
shots in the back of my mind. Some 
ight like that type of comedy but, the 
ght I went, most of this blatant humor did 
t hit the mark; it was the subtler humor 
audience was laughing at.
Carried Away takes place in the fourth 
sement of your typical senior high school, 
it has your typical senior high schoolers 
it  the nerd, the class president, the 
ip, the bitch, etc.
Levines plot follows the formation of the ools drama club, a parody of Scotch n 
itself. Ethan (Gary Middleton) gets Lby (Victor Aluise) to start the club 
use he thinks Deborah (Maria Rehnm) likes drama and Ethan likes borah, then Christy (Donna Marvin) asks 
(Marthe Cotton) to get Bobby for her Sarah suggests she join the drama club t Bobby is president of, then Sarah gets 
heartthrob Paul (Eric Riebling) to write show but... You get the idea  intricate 
(bordering on cliche. However, the show 
not the chore to sit through that last s was.
Levine created some interesting, although
i, characters and what made this show 
k was the actors fine interpretations of 
ir roles, most notably Sharon Reidbords 
utifully bitchy Amy, Bobbys dominant
Amy (Sharon Reidbord) shows Bobby (Victor Aluise) that she has the Upper Hand in Carried Aivay.
photo by Steve Winawer
girl friend. Reidbord was most believable 
and enjoyable to watch; she had Amy down 
pat, whine and all.
Marvin had one of the best voices in the 
cast, and it would have been nice to see more 
of her character; I felt there was much more 
to the role than was written. One problem 
was she had to act opposite Cotton, who had 
trouble juggling the sprawling magnitude 
of her part. Cotton, the lead of the show, was 
on stage nearly every minute and it seemed 
to tire her out.
Undoubtedly the best male lead was 
Aluise, whose timing was perfect for the 
comedy of the show. Aluises energy was 
unceasing, frequently picking up the shows 
tempo. Middleton also added to the cast 
with his cameo portrayal of The Dramat, 
who wanted to do a pseudo-nouveau new 
wave alternative experience. Another good
moment was Ginas (Mary Beth Gilmores) 
song,Gossip, an Ethel Merman-esque 
type belter backed by Middleton and 
Rehnstrom.
Tom Woods most impressive scene 
design deserves a special mention. For the 
show, Wood created a backstage theater wall 
to cover the ballrooms existing one, and a 
standing proscenium arch; the rest of the 
space was left open, giving a wonderful 
behind-the-scenes atmosphere that worked 
well. This is the best set design I have ever 
seen Scotch n Soda come up with.
The rest of the show is fine but not 
extremely memorable. The music was sim
plistic, lacking the depth of past SNS musi
cals, yet woven into the plot very well. The 
director, Felicia Pratto, who did an excellent 
job with Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
last year, again seemed to have the same
trouble she did with The Fantasticks in 
directing a musical  mainly coordinating 
the larger cast to do more than stand around 
and wait their turn to sing.
Prattos, and the rest of the casts, best 
moment was the closing West Side Story 
scene, which is one of the funniest moments 
Ive seen in college theater. The drama club 
has to put on something, and they manage 
to totally botch this theater classic. Bobby 
(Aluise) is the beautifully inept Riff, and 
Amy (Reidbord) creates a perfecdy overbear
ing Maria.
If you want to escape worrying about 
your upcoming finals or your brain is 
pounding after thinking nothing but buggy 
for the past three weeks, go see Carried 
Away, it is the perfect painless remedy for 
those tired minds.
indina Egg and vegetables in Pitt basement
VINCENT GUINTO
Contributing Editor Bucking high winds and a miserable drizI recently ventured to the Cathedral of ling. My mission: to find and review 
Egg at the Pitt Studio Theatre. The 
I Cathedrals vaulted corridors 
I echoed with my footsteps; the 
I hallowed halls of Pitt academia
5 were empty, save an occasional pus police officer. After numerous minf random wandering, I came across the 
ter, hidden in a secluded comer of the ent, right under the Burger Chef, 
ere I discovered the cozy little theater, pulated by a small staff of eager Pitt stu- ts and an only slightly larger audience. r an impressive symphony was played r the PA system, the performance was 
n- And then, all thoughts of the diffi- tles getting there, the nuisance of not ng a water fountain in the area, the
V appearance of the audience risers,
l,away in awe of the'performanoe: Joe
e Egg is the story of an ordinary family ne slight problem: the familys 10- r'ld daughter Josephine (Joe) is, in the 
r^s f a German specialist, a wegeta- Over the years, the parents have deve- the habit of using humor (often 
. 1(* or sadistic in nature) to cover up the 
lculties of their situation. The play deals 
what happens when, under the influf an overbearing mother-in-law and
the meddling of a socialist millionaire and 
his wife, the situation reaches the breaking 
point.
The play is written in a far from standard 
style. In the first act, Brian and Sheila (Dou
glas Krizner and Maura Minteer), Joes par
ents, act out for the audience the story of 
Joes birth and diagnosis. In the scene, 
Sheila continually played the mother while 
Brian adopted a variety of roles, ranging 
from family doctor to German specialist to 
minister. The scene was poignantly depress
ing as the two showed, through an amazing 
series of satirical situations and characteriza
tions, the overall futility of their daughters 
situation. But, it was also hilariously funny, 
in a sadistic sort of way.
In the second act, Pam and Freddie (Elena 
Bertolino and Dan Wyse) are introduced. 
Freddie is an old college acquaintance of 
Brians, a socialist and a millionaire who 
insists on meddling in the lives of the less 
fortunate for their own good. Pam, Fred
dies wife, is not quite as enthusiastic about 
her husbands do-gooding; neither is Brian, 
who thinks hes sleeping with Sheila. Bri
ans modier, Grace (Caryn Ronis), also 
appears, and a more typical mother-in-law 
could not be imagined as she bumblingly 
insults Sheila for her pre-marital promis
cuity and poor treatment of her son.
As Joes parents, Krizner and Minteer 
were excellent; their performances literally 
shone with intensity. Krizner, also good in
the recent Pitt production of The Three Sis
ters, switched from role to role in the first act 
with amazing ease. His portrayal of a loving 
husband slowly cracking under the strain of 
an intolerable home life was quite powerful.
Minteer carried her role of loving mother 
and devoted wife equally well. She convinc
ingly portrayed a passionate and highly 
attractive woman, handling advances from 
Krizner as husband, doctor, and reverend 
with equal ease. Her reaction to Ronis as 
Brians mother was excellent, a prime exam
ple of the classic wife/mother-in-law 
conflict.
The supporting cast also performed well. 
Sigal MandelkeT as Joe was a perfect vegetacorrtinued on page 13Renaissance will play in the big top
By SUSAN BOSSI
Tartan Staffwriter
With the approach of Spring Carnival 
1983, students and faculty are looking for
ward to the weekends events. One such 
event is the arrival of Renaissance, the band 
that is scheduled to perform on Friday, April 
22 at 8 p.m. in the CMU gymnasium. The 
performance is an AB Concerts production.
Opening for Renaissance will be 
Pousette-Dart, a two-man band that plays 
music of a similar genre and has released 
many albums in the past.
Chairman for the 1983 Spring Carnival 
Concerts is senior Bill Hammerschlag.
Other groups previously considered were 
Joan Jett and the Blackhearts and the Eng
lish Beat, but for various reasons these per
formers were not available. According to 
Hammerschlag, AB Concerts wanted to 
offer the campus community an alternative 
to new wave music.
Renaissance is an English band com
posed of three band members: Jon Camp 
(bass guitar, electric guitar, lead and backing 
vocals), Michael Dunford (acoustic guitar, 
electric guitar, backing vocals), and Annie 
Haslam (lead and backing vocals). The 
band is currently on its nationwide tour erf 
the US. This years visit to CMU will be the
bands second; Renaissance was also on 
campus in 1978.
Renaissance has recently released their 
tenth album, Time-Line. According to 
Hammerschlag, It represents a slight shift 
in their emphasis  a little less mellow than 
their previous work.
AB Concerts budgeted $12,000 to book 
Renaissance for Spring Carnival, and total 
production costs have reached $15,000. The 
organization hopes to make up the 
remainder with ticket sales.
Tickets for the show are $6.50 and may be 
purchased at the Skibo Information Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanApril 19, 1983
Vereen performs to help leukemia society
Ben Vereen, consummate entertainer, 
appears for one performance only for the 
benefit of the Leukemia Society, May 11 at 8 
p.m: at Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts. 
Dennis Miller, called the funniest man in 
town, opens the show which will be hosted 
by WTAE Radios popular morning per
sonalities, OBrien and Garry.
From appearances on Broadway in Sweet 
Chanty and Jesus Christ Superstar, Vereens 
rare talents propelled him to his exciting 
portrayal of the leading character in Pippin, 
which won him both the prestigious Tony 
Award as well as the Drama Desk Award.
Broadway success provided the spring
board for his cabaret act  a one-man show 
of song and dance  bringing him even
more accolades: Entertainer of the Year, 
Rising Star and Song and Dance Star 
all from the Guild of Variety Artists, making 
Vereen the first simultaneous recipient of 
these three AGVA awards.
Vereens career is shaped by his passion 
for live audiences and has most recently 
taken him to the international stage with 
highly acclaimed performances in England, 
France, Hong Kong, and Portugal.
His versatility has been recorded in a 
number of memorable television perfor
mances, among them Louis Armstrong, 
Chicago Style, the unforgettable Chicken 
George in Roots, and Ben Vereen  His 
Roots which earned nine Emmy nomina
tions and won seven Emmy Awards. A new
TV special, Cycling Through China, costarring Kate Jackson, chronicles a 240-mile 
bicycle trip into mainland China and will 
be seen this season.
Movies have also captured the magic of 
Ben Vereen  his performances in Funny 
Lady and Bob Fosses All That Jazz have 
added to his list of accomplishments.
In addition to his accomplishments as an 
outstanding performer, Vereen has been 
honored for his humanitarian activities. He 
was the 1978 recipient of Israels cultural 
award, and the 1979 recipient of its Human
itarian Award, and for two consecutive years 
was cited by the NAACP with its prestigious 
Image Award. Recently Vereen has become 
involved with his duties as International
Chairman of the SIDS (Sudden ln 
Death Syndrome).
Vereen is studying with renowned m 
em dance choreographer May Ol 
and will perform with the May 0Don 
Dance Company in New York March 22-2
Heinz Halls new Ticket Charge, wh 
accepts MasterCard and VISA, is nowav 
able at (412) 392-4900. Pennsylvania 
dents can also call toll-free at (800) 222-i 
Phone orders must be placed at least] 
hours prior to a performance. For 
information, contact the Heinz Hall 
mation Line at (412) 281-5000. Tickets i 
also be purchased directly at the Heinz 1 
box office. Tickets are on sale 
March 28.
Allentown native stupendous at Heinz Hall
By K. J. SENIOR
Tartan Staffunritrr
Heinz Hall, just about the classiest 
concert hall in America, hosted jazz pian
ist Keith Jarrett.
This mans performance that evening 
. was stupendous. Words like 
innovative, creative and virtuosity are inevitable to be 
mentioned when describing
his talents.
Thirty-eight year old Jarrett was born 
in Allentown, Pennsylvania. He studied 
piano at Berklee College in Boston but 
left after a year to move to New York. At 
age 19 he played with Art Blakeys Jazz 
Messengers. Later on he gigged with the 
Charles Lloyd quartet and Miles Davis.
Jarrett is also known for his expertise 
at classical piano, performing with the 
Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Ameri
can orchestras. Because of this, he attracts 
a jazz-classical audience.
That evening everyone was dressed 
according to the ambiance that Heinz 
Hall projects. Suits and ties and dresses 
were the dress code as usual, but Jarrett 
has a different concept about dress. He
M*A*S*H* quiz
just wants to project his music and the 
way he feels it.
As Jarrett first walked onstage and 
bowed you could feel the audiences 
bewilderment at his garments: a cotton 
shirt, jeans and hush puppies. Though 
these are normal clothes, Heinz Hall 
standards are formal wear. But as he 
began to play, the mystery of his dress 
transferred to the conduct of his perfor
mance and music.
While he was playing you could hear 
someone humming along with a 
buzzing-like sound to the melody. At first 
thought, you would think that some jerk 
in the crowd was humming along. But 
after careful examination you could see it 
was Jarrett himself. Not only was he 
humming, but moaning and grunting. It 
seemed like he was making love to the 
piano. He also stomped his feet like it was 
a percussion section.
The most fascinating feature was Jarretts face. All of his soul, spirit and emo
tion was displayed in his face. The 
intensity in his hands and bodily move
ment revealed the seriousness of his 
compositions.
Twisting and turning his skinny body 
while rising off the stool and almost 
dancing to his unusual rhythms was 
amazing to watch.
There isnt a pianist in the world who 
gets as physically involved as Jarrett. He 
makes you feel what hes feeling just by 
his motions.
Jarrett gives true meaning to the term 
avant-garde jazz. His music is the real 
stuff and not what others call avant-garde 
jazz. At some points its very melodic and 
harmonically textured with the greatest 
care. Other times his music is almost ato
nal, dissonant and hard to follow, but 
always involving dynamics and gut 
feelings.
The concert consisted of Jarrett per
forming two long improvisational pieces 
which explored every possible sound, 
dynamic feeling, rhythm, chord and mel
ody. In the middle of Jarretts first piece 
he went on a musical rampage, playing 
the most complex melodies and intricate 
patterns, plucking the strings inside the 
piano, slamming the keyboard cover 
against its back and criss-crossing his 
hands with the greatest velocity, all at 
once. The effect was astounding.
Standing ovations brought him 
for two encores, including an impecc 
rendition of Somewhere Over the Rai 
bow. Yes, its a corny song, sung] 
every five year old girl that thinks shec 
sing, but Jarretts interpretation was] 
incredible work of art. He has more t 
just a feeling for music. The only wayl 
describe it would be to say that its Jel 
sais quoi. His last encore was a fun 
boogie woogie blues in which 
audience clapped along, out 
rhythm. Jarretts ability to control 
crowd quickly turned the situatij 
around.
He simply stopped playing, clappj 
along and then teased the audience ab 
being out of rhythm. Jarrett then finislj 
the song as the crowd watched in awl
Keith Jarrett is an experience not| 
miss. After the concert I heard 
saying hes absolutely amazing, 
ahead of his time, a real-life pioneer! 
new music who theatrically portrays 
music. His phrasing, awareness andaj 
centration is incredible. But the 
thing I heard was you may notidenj 
with his music but you can definitely! 
where hes going.
More trivia questions for those die-hard fans
By JOE GUARINO
Tartan Staffwriter
Im sorry I wasnt able to get any 
M*A*S*H trivia in last weeks edition but, if 
you look for The Wallpaper Journal posted 
around campus, there are several excellent 
trivia questions, some of which yours truly 
didnt know. Anyway, here are this weeks 
questions.
1. Who was the big red bird with fuzzy 
pink feet?
2. Was Trapper John ever married? If so, 
what was his wifes name?
3. What were B.J. Hunnicuts first words 
to Frank Bums?
4. Harry Morgan was once on M*A*S*H 
as a guest before playing Col. Potter. What 
was his characters name?
5. Potters unit once bowled against a 
bunch of Marines who beat them in most 
everything. What did the unit do to the 
Marines ace bowler to help their own 
cause in winning?
6. Who was referred to as the ringbanger?
7. Who won the gumey race?
8. Does Trapper John have any kids? If so, 
what are their names?
9. What were the two most serious condi
tions fur which Col. Mitchell almost had 
Col. Blake courtmartiaied?
10. Whats the name of the tent in which
Ha4*kevelives?*Vi A ^ 
ajEUESuEuuad uinissEiod t ind aq y 
3U01$ U9Q fr 
EJ-lLQJ 
asino^ % 
uaSuini i
:sj9Msuy
SuijMoq ou 33U3q sjnoq BiB yJhi puaq 
o lou Vtg aro juo aqi iEqi paaoSE puE 
paun3uo3 f a puE 33zBgtBOx 3nq Vtg xx 
3snE3aq uiiq qiiM wriBg Ajqixiai Vtg Surqi 
-amos iqSnoqi puE ino paddijj aq paiEu 
-un aq uaq^ >{uup V490E aqi oiui uopnjos
duiEMg aqx 0 
UI3U3 011 
-UI03 SurpiAOid puE spiozi SuiAjisjej 
AqiE3 puE ipag 1 
JBM.O 1*0'I 
uoiqSug zzng joQ
Albee's "Seascape" at Lab Theatre
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will pres
ent Seascape by Edward Albee, running 
through May 15, Thursdays through Sun
days at 8:15 p.m., with Sunday matinees on 
April 24 and May 15 at 2:30 p.m.
In Seascape, Albees poetic masterpiece, a 
married couple, children grown and 
departed, find themselves on a deserted 
stretch of beach next to the sea. After a picnic 
lunch, they chat idly about home, family, 
their years together and the acceptance of 
growing old.
Suddenly, they are joined by two creatures 
from the sea, lizards, who have decided to 
leave their home in the ocean in order to 
search for the purpose of their existence. 
Fear and suspicion are soon replaced by 
curiosity as the lizards and humans become 
engaged in fascinating and revealing 
dialogue.
Each couple holds the answers to the 
questions the other is searching for. Those 
answers e'Kfri vWth Warmth and humor
as each couple learns to celebrate life in their 
own way.
Bob Stoll and Janet Robb will play the 
married couple who are joined on the beach 
by the sea creatures, played by Bill Mott and 
Robin Walsh.
Bob Stoll returns to the Lab Theatresi 
after his successful run of The Man i| 
Glass Booth. Janet Robb, familiar to ( 
munity Theatre audiences, was lasts 
the Lab Theatre in Sylvia Plath; A 
Portrait.A/ESEC sends members abro< for job-related experience
continued from page 8
tant on commerce between Norway and the 
United States.
Several students were matched to Asian or 
African jobs. Dave Levy will be involved 
with labor relations and accounting at Hita
chi, Ltd., in Tokyo, Japan. Mark Calem 
former vice president of management infor
mation systems, will be working for the 
Bank of Israel in Jerusalem. Sean McCaf
frey, former local committee1 president, will 
work for the American Embassy in Lagos,
Nigeria, in marketing research 
computing.
The International Exchange is thei 
AIESECs central goal, promoting inl 
tional awareness in business manage 
Each of the jobs offers a challenge to^j 
learned skills directly in the interna0 
business arena. Most of all, the traine 
offer the challenge of living in a 
country, adjusting to new cultu^i 
acquiring new knowledge with a di 
persjiective.,, . -

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1983The TartanPage 13
PREPARE FORMCAT  LSAT *GM AT SAT-DAT-GRE  CPA
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  ELEX  NDB  NLE
photo by Rhoda Funk
This week Studio Theatre will be presenting new plays. Above is Conrad McMillan, who 
starred in Studio Theatres production, The Birthday Party.Grim subject hilarious
 Permanent Centers open days, evenings and weekends.* Low hourly cost. Dedicated full
time staff. Complete TEST-n-TAPcswfacilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.* Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed
lessons. . voluminous home-study materials constantly updated by research
ers expert in-their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
jttsburgh-located film
jnce-filled and dynamic
Two young admirers ponder about the events that go on while people are on the pole.
THERINE STROUD VODREY
Stoffwriter
times have changed. 30 years ago, 
iematic version of a girl was a sweet, 
ss young thing who wept easily and 
the captain of the high school foot| ball team. Those days are gone 
I for good, folks; todays girl is 
an 18-year-old who works as a 
| welder by day, as a dancer by 
and lives with a nasty-looking dog in 
mdoned warehouse. 
hdance, despite its somewhat farpremise, is an exuberant and vivid 
Jennifer Beals plays Alexandra (Alex 
ort  after all, she IS a welder), an 
ndent, feisty type whose greatest 
is to be a ballerina. Having had no 
training in dance, however, she 
ler hopes as a lost cause and com peny dancing at Mawbys, the local bar. 
nly encouragement comes from Hann elderly woman who was a ballerina 
youth, and whom Alex visits on,
night at Mawbys, Alexs boss, Nick dby Michael Nouri), sees her dancing ks who she is. Upon learning that she of his employees (he has only seen her hard hat on before this), he compli- her the next day at work and asks her Jex coolly refuses, saying that dating ss is not a good idea. You know what leans: they eventually start dating and in love.
finally gets up the nerve to apply to 
cal repertory dance company, where 
late that you must be invited to audi\'ick pulls a few strings, being on the 
of directors, and gets Alex the audiespite her lack of formal training. She: 
)ut and is understandably upset with 
who cant see why he shouldnt be 
"d to help her.
Alex is tough, and wants to do it on 
m. She curls up into a ball for a week, 
too much, and leaves the phone off 
k. When he finally comes over to
make amends, her atdtude is sdll poisonous 
and she hurls things at him and shrieks for 
him to leave. With one last parting adieu: 
Okay, Alex, but just remember that if your 
dreams die, so do you, he beats a hasty 
retreat.
Realizing the logic of this, Alex gulps 
down her pride and shows up for the audi
tion. The five judges, in various postures of 
sleep, perk up mightily when she whirls out 
onto the floor. This is one of the best seg
ments of the movie: Jennifer Beals is simply 
a tremendous dancer.
There are a few scenes that are hilarious; 
at one point, Alex and Nick are dining in an 
obviously expensive restaurant, when Alex 
slips off her shoes and starts doing wonder
ful things to Nick under the table with one 
black-stockinged foot. Nicks expression is 
priceless. A little later, Nick walks in on a 
gawky receptionist who has a mouthful of 
sandwich and struggles valiantly to swallow 
it without appearing gauche.
Despite a few loose ends that the film 
neglects to tie up, such as Hannahs relation
ship, to Alex, Flashdance is an exciting and 
upbeat film. Jennifer Beals was obviously 
hired for her dancing, not acting, abilities; 
her actions and speech are sometimes a little 
stilted, but her smile is glowing and she can 
dance like a woman possessed. Michael 
Nouri is in fine form as her still-waters-rundeep lover and boss, and the two seem 
relaxed and happy with each other.
If you enjoyed Saturday Night Fever and 
Fame, Flashdance is a must-see; the dance 
segments are simply astounding, and there 
is a good, hard-rocking soundtrack that 
accompanies them. The fact that it was 
filmed mostly in Pittsburgh and features 
some recognizable local color provokes loud 
cheers from the audience. Flashdance is defi
nitely worth $4.00; although not destined to 
be a classic, leaving you with a good feeling 
afterwards is a lot more than some movies 
these days can claim.
continued from page 11
ble; how she managed to keep a comatose 
visage with some of the ludicrous dialogue 
flashing by her is beyond me. Bertolino, 
Wyse and Ronis all performed respectably, 
fulfilling the requirements of their roles 
with proficiency. However, none of the sup
porting cast was able to match the intensity 
of the leads.
Since Joe Egg was billed as a masters 
thesis project in directing, one would expect 
that the direction of the play would be 
exceptional  and Jane Rothmans was. 
She evoked powerful emotions from the 
audience: horror at Brians attempt at mur
dering Joe, annoyance at Freddies and Gra
ces meddling, deep pity for Joe. The roles of 
Freddie and Grace seemed overacted, but
that was actually due to good directing  
their parts were meant to be overacted. 
Much opportunity existed for the actors to 
get out of hand, but Rothman kept the cast 
well in rein.
Overall, the show was excellent. While 
the subject matter is grimly serious, the play 
is undeniably funny  who could not help 
but laugh at such things as Brians com
ment to Joe that Daddy will take care of 
you tonight while Mommy goes out and 
gets a litde on the side, or Pams reluctance 
to encounter Joe because she might be 
N.P.A. (Not Physically Attractive)? The 
quality of the cast and the directors skill 
combined to make Joe Egg one of the best 
Ive seen all year.
Squirrel Utill Syetique
$2000 OFF any purchase of prescription lens 
and frames 
$1000OFF nonprescription sunglasses
2242<*MurrmjJ/tvtmu
Let'sa l'tkkabouyer To. 15217 HOURS M W F S 10AM 5PM pi \  _ T H 10AM-8:30PMOptician (412)4225300
Call Days Eve* & WPi'konds
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938
Essex House L12 
Corners Center, Negley & Baum 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
661-2772

---------------------------------------------------

- ' - '  ' 
Page 14The TartanApril 19, 1983
Chamber Music Project I 
to perform at local churcl
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music Project denburg Concerto No. 1  Huei j 
will present the seventh in its series of eight Kao, violin -solo, Richard Stern, Ceu
free concerts on Tuesday, April 26 at 8:00 and, among others, Elden Gatwood
p.m. at Calvary United Methodist Church, Martin Smith, french horn and Q
Allegheny and Beech Avenues, Northside. Hardwick, violin.
The program will include two Mozart  _ .
Duos  Dmitri Levin and Peter Snitkovsky, e , Ct es P a> ers \vj|
violins; Siciliana and Scherzn Caprice by PP0"1?  an am,,
,, ~ r  ,r. which is comfortable and personal It iAlec Templeton and Eugene Bozza s Fantai- , 11'T i  T  . j to encourage a warmth and inti,Italienne  Tames Gorton, oboe and , . ... uiti
r> * u \ i u u . p-  between players and listeners m whirhGretchen Van Hoesen, haip; and Camille , ,  01
Saint-Sans Fantaisie - Donald Downs, can expand and grow.
Ms. Van Hoesen, harp. The pro- For further information, please ca]
gram will conclude with J. S. Bachs Bran- 4243.
rt work juried at Gallery
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
This week at Forbes Gallery is a rather 
special show, the seventh annual Juried 
Show in which students from all majors 
may participate. Work that has been judged 
by visiting juror, Ruth Rattner, will be on 
display.
Rattner, who was previously an art 
history instructor at both Windsor College 
and Wayne State University, now devotes 
most of her professional skills to lecturing 
and writing. A lecturer for the Detroit 
Institute for the Arts, she also makes her 
home in Detroit.
Her reviews of various exhibits appear in 
publications Art Forum, Art in America, 
and The New Art Examiner.
Sarah Ratchye, public relations manager 
for Forbes Gallery, believes that the primary 
reason for Rattner to be a great choice for 
juror is that she is interested in everyones 
appreciation of art  especially students. 
Shes also very interested in appreciation of
modem art.
Rattner arrived on the CMU campu 
Sunday, the day on which the works 
juried. Through a lengthy pro 
elimination, Rattner decided which 
pieces submitted merited a place 
exhibit. According to Ratchye, theshoi 
no plan or design before the juror sai 
pieces
Students from any department wer 
to submit pieces of any style but a lit 
two was placed on the number of pie 
person could submit. Types of art inc 
but were not restricted to: scul 
painting, drawing, prints, fiber, 
sculpture, and design work.
Rattner had no idea whose pieces si 
examining except that all the pieces 
from students of Camegie-Mellon. Af 
introduction to the gallerys space 
limitations, she began making her dec 
on the pieces and thus coming upi 
show of what may be considered exc 
work of the students of CMU. Checki
Pat Stack stars as Ellen, and Mark Tiemo as Harry, in the Allegheny Repertory Theatres 
production of Luv, running until May 8.
Dance auditions to be held
Cleveland Ballet artistic directors Ian 
Horvath and Dennis Nahat will conduct 
open auditions in New York City and Cleve
land for professional dancers seeking 
employment during the 1983-84 season. 
Auditions for females will be on point. 
Auditions will be held at the same time for 
advanced students interested in full or par
tial scholarships for the six week summer 
program at School of Cleveland Ballet.
Cleveland auditions will be held Sunday, 
May 15, at School of Cleveland Ballet, Suite
110, 1375 Euclid Avenue. Scholarship audi
tions, 9:30-11:30 a.m.; open call, 12:30-3:30 
p.m.; call backs, 4:30-6:30 p.m.
All candidates auditioning for company 
positions should bring biographical infor
mation and full length photographs.
Scholarship students must be at least 12 
years of age and have a minimum of three 
years of intensive classical training.
For more information, contact School of 
Cleveland Ballet executive administrator 
Helen Horvath, at (216) 621-3633.
All seats reserved
Skibo Ballroom 
^ 8 p1-
Tickets availiableat the Info desk or at the door.

---------------------------------------------------

_________ Sports.
etters return to winning ways by smashing Beth.
jtfAYNE I. CUTLER
.Staffsriter
ie CMU tennis team was back on its feet 
week winning two successive matches. 
Tuesday, they beat the Bethany Bisons
ie score of 6-3.
,rting off the singles wins was Pete 
,r from Mars, PA. Weber playing #2 
by the first set 7-6 and confidently 
the next 6-3.
[ext, Steve Maybeck showed he was a 
,1 Tartan by terrorizing his oppenent
6-2.
Martin at #3 Singles is having an out
ing rookie year. Martin played like a 
m winning 6-2,6-3, and is currently 4-1
| the season.
losing out the fourth singles winners 
5 Greg Orsag at #6. He won a bagel set 6-0
and then took a break to snack. Orsag lost 
the next set 6-4 and came back to finish off 
his meal 6-0 in the third.
Going into the doubles, CMU needed 
only one more win to close out the match. 
And without wasting any time they did just 
that. Weber and Martin crunched their over
heads and serves to blow away Bethanys #2 
trio 6-1, 6-2.
Then without allowing no more than one 
game each set, CMUs #3 team of LaRitz and 
Orsag put the icing on the cake. The final 
score was CMU 6- Bethany 3.
Things did not go as smoothly last Satur
day as the Tartans barely slipped by the 
Hiram Terriers 5-4.
Steve Maybeck, the blonde haired sopho
more, fought diligendy in the first set to take 
it 6-3. His oppenent apparendy lost all
enthusiasm in the second set as Maybeck 
failed to let up a single game.
Ed Martin at #4 Singles appears like the 
one to beat in the PAC Conference. He 
extended his win/loss record to 5-1 by beat
ing his foe 6-4, 6-2.
Because of his recent performances, Greg 
Orsag was moved up to #5 singles and 
proved he is of that caliber play. Orsag 
stroked the ball with confidence and aggres
siveness to win 6-3, 6-3.
At the end of singles play, the match was 
anybodys with the two teams tied at three a 
piece.
Starting off the doubles were Weber and 
Martin at #2. The duo tilted the match in 
CMUs favor winning quickly 6-2, 6-3.
The match was all up to the #1 or #3 
doubles team. Unfortunately the #3 team of
i Fry of BETA pushes his buggy up hill five as fellow brothers look on and try not 10 run mmby Steve Winawer
Orsag and LaRitz lost a close three setter 4-6, 
6-4, 6-2.
This made the score tied at four all with 
one match remaining. Oddly enough, 
CMUs #1 team of Maybeck and Cutler were 
playing the same doubles that Jim Silvey 
and Wrayne Cutler had beat in last years 
PAC finals. Fortunately, there was some 
deja vu in the air as CMUs #1 clinched the 
match winning 6-2, 6-3.
Coach Mark Bush joyfully said of the 
match, It wras a strange way to win. I 
expected the victory to come from the #3 
doubles team and not the #1, but however 
we did it, we did it and thats all that 
matters.
The Tennis Team is now 3-3 overall and 
3-2 in their conference. Tomorrow they 
travel to Theil and then host Allegheny on 
Saturday and Westminster on Monday.
IM track and 
field meet next Thurs.
The IM track meet is coming up! It will 
be held Thursday, April 28th at 4:30 p.m. on 
the CMU track. Comm. Jim Borowicz will 
hold special heats in each event for women. 
The events are listed on the IM bulletin 
board.
Elsewhere, softball comm. Mike Corletti 
(687-9063) and Doug Reinstein (683-2805) 
would like all teams who play in the final 
game of the night to turn in all softball 
equipment to the IM shed and note the win
ning score on the score sheet.
Schedules are out for IM frisbee and can 
be picked up in the IM office. Comm. Henry 
Thome (x8849) would like all games to be 
played on time and turn in scores to Henry.
The IM board dinner will be held on 
April 27th. Members can sign up with Mr. 
Birdy in the IM office.
Veather wreaking havoc 
vith baseball club season
JEFFREY BERGMAN
 Sports Editor
Wording to the schedule the baseball 
>was to start its season Tuesday, March 
As of Sunday, April 17th, guess how 
iy games the team has played? Ten, six
Try 0!
hats right, zip! 14 games had been sche^ between the dates and because of 
her natures various angers none of 
n have been played. These include 
stty continuous rainfall, lack of sunle> and the coup de grace last weekends 
w.
fnior captain Ed Novak, when asked
how he felt on the present situation com
mented this way: Its been very disappoint
ing so far to all the players but especially to 
the seniors who are playing in their last 
season.
According to Coach Allen, the starting 
lineup will resemble something along these 
lines. Tim Nagy will be the catcher, Ed 
Novak, when not pitching, will be at first, 
John Spanos at second, Mike Homer at 
short, and Andy Rossi at third. The outfield 
is especially unclear but senior Mike Seel 
and freshmen Bill Yankovich and Richie 
Theg look like they will comprise the start
ing lineup.
ajor league baseball previewir
PIKA hopes that their new buggy doesnt spin out in the chute.photo by Steve Winawer
itching will lead White Sox in weak AL West
JEFF BERGMAN
an Sports Editor
is the last in a series of four previews 
upcoming 1983 baseball season; this 
k lhe American League West will be 
viewed. The AL West has the unfortudistinction of being in the 
league as the AL East, 
which means four teams w ill be* 
way under .500, leaving three 
Angels, Royals, and White 
"t0 contend for the title in the West. 
e Royals don' t have the pitching and the
Angels dont have bullpen, so the White Sox 
are my pick because they have both.
1. Chicago White Sox If its true that pitch
ing wins pennants then Chicago will run 
away with it. The general managers of the 
White Sox have assembled a staff with such 
depth and talent that people like Randy 
Martz, who pitched 147 innings with the 
Cubs, had to be cut.
The biggest name on the staff is newlyacquired free agent Floyd Bannister (12-13, 
3.43). Last years strike-out leader should 
already add to a strong rotation that
includes Britt Bums (13-5, 4.04), Rich? d 
Dotson (11-15, 3.84), LaMarr Hoyt (19-15, 
3.53), and Dennis Lamp (11-8, 3.99). The 
bullpen of leftovers will have Jerry' Koosman (11-7, 3.84), Salome Barojas (6-6, 3.54, 
21), Dick Tidrow (8-3, 3.99, 6), and Kevin 
Hickey (4-4, 3.00).
On the field, Chicago has the power but 
their lack of finesse could hurt them in the 
end. Tony LaRussas squad was second to 
last in errors in 1982 with 154 and must 
improve on that number to win. One move 
that didnt help things in fielding was start
ing Ron Kittle (50, 144, .345 in AAA). Kittle 
obviously can hit but his fielding skills are 
questionable.
The rest of the offense is supplied by 
future all-star Harold Baines (25, 105, .271), 
DH Greg Luzinski (18, 102, .292), catcher 
Carlton Fisk (14,65, .267), and first baseman 
Tom Paciorek (11, 55, .312)a pretty tough 
lineup.
The other major problem for Chicago is 
deciding who is going to play on the left side 
of the infield. At the moment, LaRussa is 
continued on page 16

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanApril 19, 1983
Texas, Minnesota, and Seattle have no shot
continued from page 15
going with Vance Law (5, 54, .281) at third, 
and rookie Scott Fletcher (4,60, .313 in AAA) 
as Tony Bemazards (11, 56, .256) double
play partner at short. Both are decent fielders 
but their hitting capability over a whole 
season is quite questionable. Rudy Law (3, 
32, .318) will be the center fielder and leadoff hitter.
Strengths: Starting pitching, bullpen, 
power, speed, catcher, and depth.
Weaknesses: Infield defense and left side 
of infield.
Prediction: Chicago is not a great team 
but in the weakest division in baseball, a 
pitching staff like theirs added to a powerful 
hitting lineup will give the Sox 91 wins and 
their first ever division title.
2. California Angels Last year, California 
won the division for the second time in four 
years led by Mr. October Reggie Jackson 
(39, 101, .299). Curiously enough, Reggie 
batted well below .200 in the championship 
series to help Milwaukee take the pennant. 
Anyway, what California will try to do in
Pittsburgh is our home. Lets clean house!
Pittsburgh 
Clean City Committee, Inc.
1983 is not to repeat the season they had after 
the last time they won the division, when the 
whole pitching staff collapsed and Calfornia ended up with 65 wins.
This probably wont happen because the 
Angels have a starting five that is old but 
good. They are 36-year-old Geoff Zahn (18-
8, 3.73), 23-year-old Mike Witt (8-6, 3.51), 
33-year-old Bruce Kison (10-5,3.17), 40-yearold Tommy John (14-12,3.69), and 36-yearold Ken Forsch (13-11, 3.87). If one does go 
down, Andy Hassler (2-1, 2.78) and Dave 
Goltz (8-5, 4.08) are waiting in the wings. 
The new manager is hoping that either 
Doug Corbett (1-9, 3.13,11) or Luis Sanchez 
(7-4, 1.21, 5) will emerge as a much needed 
stopper in the bullpen.
Qdforma is going to need a good bullpen 
in 83 because the Angels run-production 
power suffered a cut when free agent Don 
Baylor took his 24 home runs and 93 RBIs to 
New York. What this will do in the batting 
order is cut down the home-run production 
of Reggie and third baseman Doug DeCinces (30, 97, .301). Though this awesome 
lineup also has power hitters Bobby Grich 
(19,65, .261), left fielder Brian Downing (28, 
84, .281), and center fielder Fred Lynn (21, 
86, .299), Calfomia can only win if all five 
repeat their stats, which will be quite diffi
cult as each gets a year older, especially with
out Baylor in the order.
Elsewhere, McNamara is set defensively 
and offensively with Bob Boone (7,58, .256) 
catching, Rod Carew (3, 44, .319) at first, 
Tim Foli (3,56, .252) at short, and question
able Bob Clark (2, 8, .211) in right.
Strengths: Power, infield and outfield 
defense, pitching depth, starting pitching, 
and team depth.
Weaknesses: Age, bullpen, and right field.
Prediction: The Angels need repeat per
formances from their aging sluggers and
Get that
Great*
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
 
PRECISION
HAIRCUTCOLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-1LOW STYLE) 
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
oranmms.Adminsnt mww,
Mon , prlV . Wed. 10-7 
Thurv, Fn. 10-9
Sat. ni. 607 5500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
257 Atwood Street 
Acrots the street from 
Oakland uig Offkr
their aging pitchers for a possible division 
tide. This will only occur if Corbett 
rebounds and makes the fans forget about 
Mr. Baylor.
3. Kansas City Royals The Royals had a 
strange year in 1982. The pitching was virtu
ally non-existent after starter Dennis Leo
nard (10-6, 5.10) broke a knuckle. However, 
the K.C. bats were amazingly awesome with 
Willie Wilson (3,46, .332) leading the league 
in hitting and DH Hal McRae (27,133, .308) 
leading the league in RBIs. They led Dick 
Howsers crew to a second-place finish 
probably as far as they could have gone.
The oudook in 83 is questionable. The 
hitting should still be there but there is no 
way possible Wilson or McRae will even 
come close to matching their 1983 stats since 
both had seasons far and above their career 
averages. Unfortunately, just good years 
from those two and George Brett (21, 82, 
.301), Willie Aikens (17, 74, .281), Amos Otis 
(11, 88, .286), and Frank White (11,56, .298) 
might not win it for Kansas City because 
their pitching is in such an abysmal state.
The main starting threeLarry Gura (18- 
12, 4.03), Vida Blue (13-12, 3.78), and Paul 
Splittorff (10-10, 4.28)all struggled last 
year and a comeback could be tough, espe
cially at their age. Leonard is still a question 
mark for #4, while #5 should go to another 
veteranSteve Renko (11-6, 4.44). The 
bullpen is tough with Dan Quisenberry (9-
7, 2.57, 35) and Mike Armstrong (5-5, 3.20, 
6).
The rest of the lineup will consist of 
catcher John Wathan (3, 51, .270), toothpickless U.L. Washington (10, 60, .286) at 
short, and Jerry Martin (15,65, .266) in right.
Strengths: Power, speed, defense, bullpen, 
catching, and depth.
Weaknesses: Starting pitching and pitch
ing depth.
Prediction: With the pitching in the same 
state as it was in last year, the hitters 
have to repeat last years numbers to e\en 
come close. That probably wont happ^ 
since everyone except for Brett and Otis hi 
way above their normal capabilities la 
year. 87-75.
4. Oakland As Part three of Billy 
Syndrome finally showed its face last year 
The symptoms are the following: starting 
pitchers are worn out; players say there is tog 
much pressure on them; Martin throw* 
couple temper tantrums as the team starts 
losing; and then eventually the front office 
steps in and fires Billy.
The aftermath of a Martin regime usually 
entails a good amount of rebuilding which 
is what Oakland will do in 1983. The A 
still have a fine nucleus of players. They 
include speedster Ricky Henderson (10,51 
.267) in left, under-rated Dwayne Murphy 
(27, 94, .239) in center, and sureshot Mike 
Heath (3, 39, .242) catching.
What manager Steve Boros is looking for 
is that by combining rookies Kelvin Moore 
(21, 82, .264 in AAA), Mike Davis (12, 
.316 in AAA), and Tony Phillips (4,47, .297 
in AAA), with veterans Camey Lansford(ll 
63, .301), Jeff Burroughs (16, 48, .277), and 
Dave Lopes (11, 42, .242) the As will raise 
their team batting average from last years 
low of .236.
The hitting looks like it will improve, 
Boros must now work on the pitching staff, 
that was next to last in the league last year 
with a 4.54 team ERA. The best off-season 
acquisition was that of lefty reliever Tom 
Burgmeier (7-0,2.29,2). He should combine 
with Dave Beard (10-9, 3.44, 11) to form a 
good bullpen that will be used this year.
The starters are a big question because no 
one knows if any of them have anything left 
continued on page 17
FORBES GALLERY
guest juror 
Ruth Rattner 
Ph.D. critic 
professor of art history
Opening 
19 April Tuesday 7-9 pm 
through 
23 April Saturday
gaHery hours 11-6
Spring Carnival 
Carnegie-Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

April 19, 1983The TartanPage 17
ngels. Royals, and A's lack hurlers to win
u0d from page 16
jieough (11-18, 5.72), Mike Norris (7- 
476), and Rick Langford (11-16, 4.21) 1 be back in the rotation along with Tom 
jgrwood (10-6, 3.29) and super-rookie 
ns Codiroli (10-3, 1.90 in AAA). With 
rest, this good be a very strong rotation 
(hat is yet to be seen. 
engths: Speed, oufield defense, and 
.pen
Weaknesses: Power and questionable roo. n key positions.
iiction: Oakland will probably hit for 
igher average but will have a shortage of 
due to the lack of big men in the 
up. The loss of Armas and Cliff JohnlWill be felt. I think the pitching will be 
ter as should this team who will win 76 
nes.
fexas Rangers The Rangers have finally 
ied the comer. The last five years theyve 
to win with free agent hitters and a 
ke-shift pitching staff. However, during 
i-season, owner Eddie Chiles fired his 
ager and general manager and hired 
tig Rader and Joe Klein, respectively. 
; are two quality men who realize how 
jild a teampitching and patience, 
[infortunately, Klein couldnt make a 
during the off-season for a quality 
her, so Texas will have to go with what 
l have. What they have is shaky rotation 
jle up with veterans Jon Matlack (7-7, 
I), Charlie Hough (16-13, 3.95), Rick 
fieycutt (5-17,5.27), Danny Darwin (10-8, 
,and rookie Mike Smithson (11-7, 4.54 
)not the most impressive cast in 
Iworld.
lowever, Rader is more worried about 
bullpen. Why? Because he does not have 
I proven stopper out there. Hes hoping 
transfer student Dave Tobik (4-9, 3.56, 
pen combined with youngsters Dave 
nidt (4-6,3.20, 6) and John Butcher (1-5, 
1) will form a formidable pen.
Igood portion of Texass starting lineup 
post a list of all-stars past: Jim Sund[(10, 47, .251) catching, Bucky Dent/l, 
193) at short, Mickey Rivers (1,4, .235) 
time at DH and coming off knee 
ry, Larry Parrish (17, 62, .264) now in 
,and Buddy Bell (13, 67, .296) at third.
4P
is ap.\ 
a
Last Week's 
Puzzle Answer
However, they all had off years, and whether 
they can rebound is a question.
Also a question is the rest of the lineup. 
Bill Sample (10, 29, .261) and Mike Richardt 
(3, 43, .241) have compiled great minor 
league stats but have yet to show anything in 
the big leagues. George Wright (11,50, .264) 
and Dave Hostetler (22, 67, .232) had great 
rookie years but slumped off near the end of 
the season and a quality performance over a 
full season is up in the air.
Strengths: Team defense, managerial 
skill, and depth (except pitching).
Weaknesses: Power, speed, pitching, and 
run-scoring ability
Prediction: Everything seems to be 
against Texas having a good season. On the 
other hand, I believe the new transfusion of 
great front office will help this team win 
over 70 games.
6. Minnesota Twins Cheapskate owner Cal
vin Griffith assembled a team last year that 
had the lowest salary total in the league, had 
the worst pitching in the league, had the 
worst record, but made him $150,000one 
of the few clubs who made a profit in 1982.
However, things are looking up for the 
Twins this year because of a 44-48 record in 
the last three months of the season. The 
reasons for this are a bunch of young talent 
that surprised everyone with some of the 
stats they produced. There was should-havebeen rookie of the year Kent Hrbek (23, 92, 
.301) at first, shortstop Ron Washington (5, 
39, .271), Gary Gaetti (25, 84, .230) at third, 
Tom Brunansky (20, 46, .272) in right, DH 
Gary Ward (28, 91, .289), and Tim Laudner 
(7, 33, .255) catching.
Many experts have mentioned that Min-, 
nesota might have the best young talent in a
while ever amassed on a single team. True, 
the stats are impressive, but dont forget the 
Twins play in the Homerdome while can 
inflate anyones stats.
However, Billy Gardners troops pay for 
this great offensive force through a pitching 
staff that is by far the worst in baseball. 
Leading this staff are starters Bobby Cas
tillo (13-11, 3.66), Brad Havens (10-14,4.31), 
Frank Viola (4-10, 5.21), and A1 Williams 
(9-7, 4.22). Theyre young with some talent 
but are a long way away. The bullpen 
rebounds around Ron Davis (3-9, 4.42, 22) 
who would have great stats on any other 
ballpark in America. Past him, there are a 
handful of rookies who are so obscure that 
they all were non-roster players when they 
made the team in spring training.
Strengths: Power, run production, and 
infield defense.
Weaknesses: Bullpen, team depth, speed, 
left field, and starting pitching.
Prediction: The Twins will win more this 
year (anything has to be better than last year) 
but will have to suffer through another year 
of below par pitching. The offense will 
probably not be able to produce the same 
output but the pitching should get a little 
better.
7. Seattle Mariners I really dont want to 
pick this team here because I think manager 
Rene Lacheman is one of the best in the 
business but any team that loses a pitcher of 
the quality of Bannister and a hitter with the 
consistency of Bruce Botche and replaces 
them with Bob Stoddard (7-11, 5.20) and 
Steve Henderson (2,29, .233) is losing a lot of 
quality.
" The Mariners surprised everyone with 76 
wins, chiefly on a fantastic bullpen that kept
games close for Seattle to catch up and kept 
the Mariner leads safe. Leading this crew 
was the Inspector Bill Caudill (12-9,2.35, 
26). His partners in crime were lefty Ed VandeBerg (9-4, 2.37, 5), and Mike Stanton (2-4, 
4.16). The trio might have to repeat their 
performances because the starting cast of 
Gaylord Perry (10-12, 4.40), Mike Moore (7- 
14, 5.36), Matt Young (12-10, 4.65 in AAA), 
and Jim Beattie (8-12, 3.34) is virtually the 
same.
Lachemans forte is taking washed up 
ballplayers and giving them a chance to 
prove themselves, which turns out in most 
cases to be successful. Last years project was 
right fielder A1 Cowens (20, 78, .270) who 
ended up getting a multi-year contract out 
of the deal. This year Lacheman will try his 
best with Henderson, who had some good 
years with the Mets, and first baseman Pat 
Putnam (2,9, .230) who hit 19 home runs in 
his rookie year with Texas. If the two can 
produce, then Seattle might field a quality 
offense. They already have talent with DH 
Richie Zisk (21, 62, .292), second baseman 
Julio Cruz (8,49, .242), shortstopTodd Cruz 
(16, 57, .230), and young center fielder Dave 
Henderson (14, 48, .253).
The rest of the lineupManny Castillo 
(3, 49, .257) at third and Rick Sweet catch
ing, (4, 24, .256)is suspect.
Strengths: Bullpen, strong double play 
combination, speed, and manager.
Weaknesses: Starting pitching, outfield 
defense, depth, and catching.
Prediction: The Inspector & Co. wrill 
have a tougher time this year without Ban
nister pitching every fifth day and will tire. I 
think Putnam will produce but overall this 
team doesnt have the quality of last year.
If youre a senior and have the promise of a $10,000 career-oriented job, do you know 
whats stopping you from getting the American Express' Card?
You guessed it.
Nothing.
Because American Express believes in your future. But more than that. We believe 
in you now. And weve proving it.
A $10,000 job promise. Thats it. No strings. No gimmicks. And this offer is 
even good for 12 months after you graduate.
But why should you get the American Express Card now?
Because the Card is great for shopping.
Whether its a new suit for the job or a new stereo for home, the American 
Express Card is welcomed at the finest stores all over the country. And even if you 
need furniture for your place, you can do it with the Card.
Of course, its also great for restaurants, 
hotels, and travel. It also begins to establish 
your credit history-for any really big things 
you might need.
So call 800-528-8000 for a Special 
Student Application or look for one at your 
college bookstore or on campus bulletin boards.
The American Express Card. Dont leave 
school without it.'"
Look for an application on campus.
can k*prrv,( 19^2

---------------------------------------------------

W
MAKE YOUR 
RESERVATIONS 
NOW FOR
THELOVEBOATPARTY
April 29th 
Skibo Ballroom 
Boarding time 9:00
DANCE ON THE ALOHA DECK
To: G-FORCE 
RACER
CONTEST
The guy who brings the most girls
and
The girl who brings the most guys
WINS 
DINNER FOR TWO!
THERE ARE STILL TICKETS FOR THE
RENAISSANCE CONCERT
Available at Skibo Info Desk

---------------------------------------------------

oe Freshmanby Mark Levine
AT FIRT You 
TIP UViSHLY..
AfftlV A WHltf PAy
Trti fxAcr raohypc
lwucce Gjjb yoi/ siJur \JSIM6 CoVfOUS...
fM/V-LY yoo 
IMPK0\/ISPIZZA 
BUYIM6
THROUGH
OOlUbl
Diane Thodos
Consider ,*iA uMVouf 
rftve t'00'0* v'^ ^aVe evolved,^o \vv^e\\\Cje^+ ctea+ores
i^e are 4oAoy. j> is -tjve
yyioS-t \vnpor^<*u4 _______>
of +lie body. %
v~r--
oindexter
AW? DONT worn 
Agoor" irWEit <iirAr 
hwDMi&ht anp Vbu'o- m& 
(XEWIY Of TlW)6 TO 
V__ ,^-M_ FtAIISM
I amnpfiT gee kfrgftoF PL...I HAtfEA ftvPQt DOf
AT -foNOppOW K\Offil*K>
M)I hAMCN c gjak STAPt
OM NO. <wty THBEt:M> A AlP 
HOPS T 6CT (T Dow/ r
W5 ru wPber jsseflacwwo
josr ndhmd typiNfa/____________
rosswordACROSS
I. Period of time
6. Composed Bolero
II. Funeral lament
12. Urbane
13. March 15; Beware!
14. Erbium (symbol)
16. Ku Klux is one
17. Football score (abbr.)
18. Operatic solo
20. Tolkiens talking tree
21. Islets of____ in pancreas
25. Unstable aldehyde conformation
26. Descendants (abbr.)
27. Open railway car
29. Pilots with 10 combat victories 
31. Childrens M.D.
33. Whats up,-----?
34. Dismounted
35. Anglo-Saxon you
37. American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers (abbr.)
39. Tellurium (symbol)
40 .___Fitzgerald
42. Southern sky constellation
44 .____-de-lis
45. Rear end of boat
46. Astray
DOWN
1. Monica C. does this
2. Waste, as in ume
3. Raw mineral form
4. Metric measurement system (abbr.)
5. Helium (symbol)
10. Begins Ash Wednesday
14. Anglo-Saxon before
15. Member of the class Aves
18. One of the three Graces
19. Tin Mans quest (2 words)
22. Go before, in ume
23. Balm
24. Spore sacs
28. Beer ingredient
30. Stereo needle
31. Undefined in Geometry
32. Fasten
33. Raised platform 
36. Dumbos wings 
38. Europe (abbr.)
40. Shade tree
41. Hawaiian garland
43. Tin (symbol)
44. Diatonic scale tone #4
7. Northern diving bird
8. Columns on periodic table
9. Dale_____
By Bob Aarhus

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
general
The Air Force ROTC at CMU is offering 
scholarships to qualified students. There are 
both three and two year scholarships available in 
the following academic majors: electrical 
engineering, mathematics, and architecture. 
Criteria for three year scholarships is a 3.0 
cumulative GPA, one year of math with a grade 
of C or better, and one term of calculus. Criteria 
for two year scholarships is a 2.5 cumulative 
GPA, and one year of calculus and physics with a 
grade of C or better, (physics not required for 
mathematics or architecture majors). You must 
also meet Air Force Officer Qualification Test 
minimums and physical standards. The 
scholarships pay tuition, activity fees, books, and 
$100 a month tax free during the school year. 
Upon graduation you are commissioned as an 
officer in the United States Air Force and incur a 
four year active duty commitment. For 
additional information call 578-8747 or stop by 
room 204 in the gymnasium.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at 
7 p.m. in the Wherrett Room. Students are 
invited to come and address the senate during 
audience participation.
Academic Bag Ladies meet over lunch, 
Thursdays, noon until 1 p.m. at the Lutheran 
University Center, 4515 Forbes Avenue, 
Oakland. Info: 682-6886.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, May 2. 
Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up an 
appointment.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, will hold open 
office hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30-3:30 
pm, BH 260.
classifieds
Immediate  sublet with fall option! 1 br. in 4 br.
furnished house. 2 min. CMU, lOmin. Pitt. Male 
or female. Rent negotiable. 683-9834 after 6 p.m.
Summer, fall rentals Rooms are large, clean, 
sunny, carpeted and quiet in a coed house. Ten 
minutes from CMU. Three baths, two kitchens. 
For people that want high QPAs. $140-$190 8c 
everything included. Call Mr. Whalen at 683- 
2589.
Apartment! Sublet! Shadyside! Price negotiable. 
Two bedroom, kitchen, bath, living room, 
dining room, sunporch. Call: 578-4391. Ask for 
Karen/ Debbie.
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9 p.m., in Room 39 Skibo. It 
is non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues directly from 
the Bible. Slop by, and feel free to bring a friend 
with you. If you want additional information, 
call 441-0819 and ask for John.
Wanted: Used textbooks. Get immediate cash for 
your used textbooks. Call 687-5371 or come to 
5533 Ellsworth Ave. #201
Typing at home by very qualified typist. Reaso
nable prices. Call Sandy, 521-3139.
Russian Tutor translator experienced graduate 
of Polytedinical Institute of Leningrad. Lessons 
at my apartment or on campus. Call 881-6843.
Summer sublet - 2 bedroom large shadyside 
apartment. Close to school. This is the one! Call 
681-9853.
Outstanding Shadyside sublet 3 bedroom, large 
living room w/ fireplace, beamed ceiling, stained 
glass, sunporch, washer/dryer, Vi block from 
Walnut Street shops, 2 blocks to bus  4 min to 
CMU, females only, May-Sept., 681-4556.
2 female roommates needed immediately to share 
beautiful modem two bedroom apartment with 
third female. New carpet and paint; nice security 
building; near bus; storage, laundry in basement; 
2 blocks to grocery; Highland Ave  Shadyside; 
20 minutes to CMU; Clean kitchen and bath; 
$123 plus utilities. 681-0598 Liz or Sarah
CALL 57S 2921
APARTMENT FOR SUBLET This is it! 
Spacious, 2 br. apt. available May 11 to Sept. 1. 
Option for fall. Furnished. 11 minutes from 
CMU. $400/month, utilities included. Parking, 
laundry available. Close to Shadyside shopping. 
Call 681-5127 after 6 p.m. or send mail to RV04 @ 
td. Call soon though!
Dead tape wanted need second set April 10 WYU 
concert. Will pay rental fee. Call Neil x8733 
afternoons.
Volunteers are needed to help nine-year-old Jodi 
Garda with her fight to walk again. Jodi was left 
with brain damage as a result of a kidney disease 
two years ago. Her program runs six days/week, 
twice/day from 1 to 3 p.m. or 6:30 to 8:30 p.m. No 
experience is necessary. If you have love to give 
and time to share, please call 271-2191.
Prayer at 7. Everything you wanted to know 
about prayer. (* But were afraid to ask.) 
Shadyside College Fellowship, Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church. Comer of Westminster and 
Amberson. 7-8:30 p.m. Volleyball at 6:30 p.m.
Apartment for rent. New listing. Large furnished 
and unfurnished 2 bedroom apartments with 
a/c, modem kitchen and security system. 
Available for September at 414 North Neville St. 
$405-$500. 421-5567.
FLYING FINGERS Word processing and 
typing. Student/academic rates. 241-1338.
Secure apartments for September now. Studios 
and 1-bedrooms. Walking distance to university. 
361-5792 and 621-2655.
Female Roommate Needed preferably 
professional, to share large 3-bedroom house in
S. Oakland neighborhood. Nice old house, 
backyard. $100/month + Call 621-7789.
N. Oakland - 2 room efficiency'. Available end of 
May. (Utilities included) Parking, reasonable 
rent, more. Call eves. 687-1851.
Women - earn extra money in your spare time. 
Become an AVON representative. Call NOW. 
963-0556.
Earn $500 or more each school year. Flexible 
hours. Monthly payment for placing posters on 
campus. Bonus based on results. Prizes awarded 
as well. 800-526-0883.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
Sublet June - August. Terrific house Close to 
CMU, shopping, parks. 3 BR, 2 BTH, mod. 
kitchen, dishwasher, AC $400-450. 521-2251.
Dianes Secretarial Service - Resumes, academic, 
business and personal typing 464-1618.
u(0
J
Ia
t

What Will Ybu Be 
Doing In June?
SILVAR-LISCO
is a leader in developing 
state-of-the-art interactive design automation tools. We 
develop and market a wide 
range of integrated software capabilities in the areas of database management, logic 
capture, simulation, logic 
verification, 1C layout and 
hardware synthesis.
Innovative design algorithms and color-graphics features for automating the design 
function are developed for both mainframe and worksta
tion environments.
Full-time and Summer Research and Development 
positions are available for candidates with backgrounds
in:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
Interested candidates should 
forward a cover letter and 
resume to:
SILVAR-LISCO
Dept. S15 
1801 Page Mill Road Suite 220A 
Palo Alto, CA 94303
Fifth Avenue location 8 minute walk to campus. 
Sublet. Female to share. 1 br, self-fumished 
apartment. A/C, w/w carpet, security door, 
laundry, dishwasher, disposal. BARGAIN! $150 
+ elec. (approx. $9) Option for Fall. Available 
May 1 to Aug. 31. Call Joan, 687-6063 or 687-6757 
for messages.
Mazda GLC 78 5 sp. AM/FM, lugg. rack, perf 
mech, needs body work only, current insp, great 
buy, 521-2251.
Summer rental furnished fitted home Edgewood 
Regent Square. Easy campus commute $550. 
731-4890.
clubs
AIESEC encourages students of all majors to 
attend meetings in Skibo 11 every Wednesday at 
4:30.
CMU Bicycling Club meets every Wednesday at 8 
p.m. in Skibo Room 13. This weeks meeting 
includes a workshop on the maintenance of sewup tires.
CMU Ballroom Dance Club Learn to dance, free 
lessons, every Friday 3-4:30 p.m., Thistle Hall 
(Gym). Beginners Welcome!
events
Dr. Robert Kraemer, Camegie-Mellon Professor 
of Physics, will present a lecture on Why 
Quarks? today at 4:30 p.m. in DH 1209. All 
interested persons are welcome to attend. Spon
sored by the Society of Physics Students.
The Camegie-Mellon Philharmonic, under the 
direction of Wemer Torkanowsky, will present a 
concert performance of George Gershwins folk 
opera Porgy and Bess at 8 pm, Sunday, April 24 
at Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland.
The CMU Contemporary Music Enseal 
under the direction of Leonardo Balada H.Jjj 
present a concert at 8 pm, Wednesday, April 20 
Alumni Concert Hall in the College of Fine Arts 
The concert will feature recent works by sev^ 
student composers. The Contemporary Ensem 
ble is dedicated to new music.
The concert is open to the public without char.
There will be a showing of Computer Artwork 
done by the students of CFA. This exhibition wi]] 
be held on Friday, April 22, from 7-9 pm in ^ 
computer Graphics lab, 3rd floor, Fine Arts 
Those interested in participating should contaa 
Helen in the main office, 3rd floor CFA, An 
Department, by Thursday at 5:00 pm.
Gerald Dworkin, Professor of Philosophy, at the
University of Illinois, Chicago will present 
lecture entitled Reflections on the Hypodermii 
Needle: Doctors and Capital Punishment 
Wednesday, April 20, 4 p.m. Porter Hall 125R 
Sponsored by the Program in Technology 
Society.
Design Research Center Distinguished Lecture 
Series Dr. Arthur Westerberg, head of tlv 
department of chemical engineering, will spea 
on the the topic of Synthesis in Process Design 
on Monday, April 25, at 3:30 p.m. in the Wherret 
Room, Skibo Hall. A reception for Dr 
Westerberg will follow.
Music department vocal students will join thi 
orchestra for the performance.
The program will also include Debussys U 
Mer and Faures Ballade for Piano and Orches 
tra. Nelson Whitaker, CMU. piano professor, wil 
be piano soloist.
The concert is open to the public free of charge 
SCRIPT REVIEW TONIGHT  6 p.m. 
Room 45, Skibo  bring your submissions fa 
next years ScotchnSoda productions.
I plan on living a long and healthy life, so I 
get regular cancer checkups. You should 
too. Contact your local ACS office for a free 
pamphlet on our new cancer checkup 
guideline. Because if you're'like me, 
you want to live long enough to do it all.
American Cancer Society T
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Volume IVNumber 3

---------------------------------------------------

Nbwn?vT
Mile Relay (second leg)
poem Robert Matthias
Something on the Relationship of Philosophy to Literature
essay Joe Orndorff art Jeff Pacione
The Blue Hour
poem Michael Post art Lisa Chimento
Bondage
story Judy Meiksin
Investing A 8 thinking in this room in july
poem Louise Crocoll I I poem Ward Tietz
Editor: Gregg Hower 
Assistant Editor: Judy Merrill 
Design Editors: Amy Morton, Beth Bangor 
Fiction: Cath McCafferty 
Poetry: Lauren Schneider 
Production Staff: Lisa Chimento, Nanette Marasco,
Jeff Pacione, Elayne Prince, A.J. Silber

---------------------------------------------------

MILE RELAY (second leg)
the baton
exchanges hands 
a sudden burst 
of energy 
into the turn 
lean 
concentration 
on form 
be smooth 
loose 
like a cheetah 
straight-away 
use the wind 
on your back 
full extension of legs 
another turn 
lean 
fight off 
weakness 
concentration 
form 
loose 
final straight-away 
your body 
shakes 
quivers 
like a car 
going too fast 
fight it 
concentration 
form 
pass 
the baton.
Robert Matthias

---------------------------------------------------

All of Camus literary work rests on his philosophical essay The Myth of Sisy
phus, which, taking its title from the legend of Sisyphus, and his eternal rock- pushing, analyzes a comtemporary intellectual malady, the recognition of the absurdity of human life.Justin OBrien
Joe Omdorff
The above quote indicates that there is both a 
relationship and a distinction between philosophic 
activities and literary ones, though exactly how the 
two compare seems unclear. OBrien assumes that his 
reader knows what both philosophy and literature are. 
Camus, of course, did not consider himself a philo
sopher at all  novelist, essayist, playwright, journal
ist, perhaps, but not a philosopher. And yet, the claim 
is often made by philosophers, critics, and such that in 
The Rebel and The Myth of Sisyphus, Camus is doing 
philosophy, not literature. Somehow, Camus does 
both philosophy and literature. Somehow, Athens is 
related to Algiers ... or to Stratford-on-Avon.
Before comparing philosophy and literature, one 
should make some attempt to set out what they are. 
How are they different? How the same? Given the 
complexity of each of them, it is doubtful whether it is 
possible to come up with good answers at all. But, the 
mere attempt has merit, if only as a focus for thought, 
and so ought to and will be made.
"Philosophy is derived from the Greek word 
philosophia, which means the love or pursuit of wis
dom or mental excellence. In the Platonic dialogues, 
Socrates uses the word to describe anyone who is 
involved in the same kind of search after the basis of 
human life in which Socrates himself was engaged. To 
condense a lifetime of activity and inquiry, it can be 
said that Socrates simply asks whether the unexam
ined life is worth living, and follows the resulting 
questions and argument hoping to find out. Aristotle, 
though he systematized philosophy and philosophic 
inquiry, also took a very common-sense approach to 
his questions about how things are. Since that time
Something on the 
Relationship of 
Philosophy to 
Literature
however, philosophy has become much more complex, 
rigorous, focused, though at its most basic, it remains 
the pursuit of wisdom. It tries to provide knowledge 
about the nature of man, the universe, and God, what 
it is to lead a good life, and what the nature of a good 
society might be. Since its only requirements are a 
mind and the desire to find out what is true, it can be 
and is done by all men. When we speculate on what we 
ought to do, or wonder what a good life consists in, we 
are doing philosophy. Certainly, our techniques for 
doing this kind of speculating can be improved, but the 
central thrust of philosophy, the desire to know, is 
more important to philosophical enquiry than the 
sophistication of the tools involved.
The word "literature is taken from the Latin 
litteratura, which is a derivation from the root littera, 
meaning letter. Most simply, the word means a knowl
edge of reading and writing. In the past, literature 
referred to all kinds of writing, including history, philo
sophy, theology, etc. It is only comparatively recently 
in the history of thought that the word has come to be 
associated exclusively with belles lettres and imaginative 
fictive prose. Thus, literature in the sense that we 
usually mean it would include poetry and those prose 
forms which share fictionality and the search for aes
thetic effect with poetry. This view of literature is of 
course, primarily a descriptive one, and to an evauation  both Shakespeare and the worlds worst play-y

---------------------------------------------------

\
I
wright can be said to be doing literature, though not 
equally well. The central quality of literature, in this 
view, the one that separates it from all other kinds of 
writing, is the setting out of things that did not "really 
happen for the purpose of aesthetic enjoyment.
Obviously, other kinds of writing may involve 
problems of aesthetics or style that are similar to those 
involved in doing or appreciating literature, but with
out the fictional component. Both history and philo
sophy, for example, would seem to fall in this area  
one may speak of a well-written, enjoyable-to-read 
historical work, or philosophical one. Further, some 
works, such as The Republic or the Bible seem to 
involve fiction and non-fiction, literature and non
literature together in the same work. Still, based on the 
definitions set out above, the realms of literature and 
philosophy seem to be distinct  the latter is search
ing for truth about mans eternal questions, while the 
former is interested primarily in creativity and enjoy
ment. Given this distinction, the relationship between 
philosophy and literature would be slight. Insofar as 
we may speak of fiction as having a "truth, this truth 
would have nothing to do with the truth of philosophic 
inquiry, and instead would be only a function of how 
well the literary work functions as literature.
This, however, is not the case. If it were, the 
problem of relating philosophy to literature would be 
simple  when one does literature, he is not doing 
philosophy, and vice versa. But, the fact of the matter 
is rather more complex. There are philosophic works 
that can also be read and enjoyed as literature: the 
Bible and Platonic dialogues come readily to mind. 
This kind of writing is rather uncommon, however,
since philosophic writing is expository in nature, and it 
is very difficult to bring it off in a creative, entertain
ing, fictive manner at the same time. Certainly, the 
Platonic dialogue is as much drama as it is philosophy, 
but this is a feat no other dialogue writer has ever been 
able to equal. Still, its example shows that philosophy 
written to also be good literature (though perhaps not 
great literature) is possible.
More common than philosophy written with high 
literary quality in mind is literature that deals with 
philosophic topics. Indeed, the very questions with 
which philosophy and literature both deal are those 
most basic to the human experience. Literature, 
though fiction, is based in philosophic thinking. As an 
example, consider the question of happiness  Aristo
tle deals with it in the Nicomachean Ethics, and Tolstoy 
deals with it in his own way in Anna Karenina, Aristo
tle talks of the universal, while Tolstoy deals with the 
particular, but each considers the effects of having and 
not having happiness. Or, as another example, look at 
the Oresteia  it is an exciting story, filled with plot
ting and violence, but also a story about the evolution 
of law, and addresses such topics as legality verses 
vengeance and duty of children to parents.
So, literature deals wth the same questions that 
philosophy does, though less rigorously and univer
sally, perhaps, or not as directly. The questions are 
present more obviously in some works than in others, 
of course  The Plague by Camus is a more direct 
consideration of mans role in the world than is Don 
Quixote, though both are fiction and enjoyable to read. 
The discovery of philosophical questions in works of 
literature is only a matter of looking for them and 
reading with an eye for them. It may be that work is 
better for having a great number of philosophic over
tones, and bringing them off well, but this is an aes
thetic matter. Still, it would be hard to disagree that a 
work is richer, the more varied the possible interpreta
tions it gives rise to, and the greater the possibilities it 
contains. Hamlet is a good example of this kind of 
richness  it is a ghost story, an adventure story, a 
murder mystery, a revenge story, and probably several 
other kinds of story, depending on how you read it. In 
addition, it is a treatment of a man dealing with such 
philosophic questions as "What is the best course of 
action? and "What duty do I have to others?.
Philosophic questions are basic to literature, as 
basic as language itself, and a literary work cannot 
separate itself from them. Just as the way language is 
used distinguishes a work, so does the way in which it 
addresses philosophic questions, and not the fact that 
it does such things at all. Since, according to the view 
of philosophy I have set out above, all men do philo
sophy as a matter of course (though perhaps more or 
less well), writers cannot help but do philosophy as 
the) work, and readers cannot help but find philo
sophy as they read. Philosophy and literature look at 
the same thing  human experience  and so are 
bound intimately with one another, though each does 
what it does in its own way and with its own end in 
mind. It may be like the famous rabbit/duck puzzzle in 
psychology: when seeing it as a duck, you cannot see it 
as a rabbit, and vice versa. But, the drawing remains 
the same. Its transformation is something we do in our 
looking. How is the rabbit related to the duck? Perhaps 
in the same way that Athens is related to Algiers or 
Stratford. It is up to the looker to dertermine what he 
is seeing, and to decide what the relationship is, then 
act accordingly.

---------------------------------------------------

THE BLUE HOUR
1) Unemployed
Hugging the bar 
for strength, 
debating another 
for the road 
he watches 
the waitress, 
starburst clock, 
bottles.
Drinks are cheaper now.
Wanting
the wife, the waitress, 
the kids, the house. 
Watching himself, 
fingers on the change.
2) The man in the booth
Spine securely 
placed in the corner 
he sips, 
eyes forward 
back of man's head, 
date's face, 
door.
Intruding light 
reminds him 
of catechism class, 
thoughts of God.
Praying with the glass 
sticking forearms, 
crap on the table.
3) Larry, the bartender
Tedium amplified 
he wipes the bar 
empties Sheila's 
damn butts.
Polyester pants 
and vest 
match his mood.
He mixes
then serves
the scotch and water
to the man
who should have left
two drinks ago.

---------------------------------------------------

7
4) Proper I.D. required 5) First impressions
6) Sheila, the waitress
The shift 
ends at eleven.
Smoke rings
products of her boredom, 
hang in the heavy air.
Wanting
to leave
this mill town,
she thinks
about the tips
she won't be making
four more hours.
She is bored 
it's happy hour.
Michael Post
Planning 
his exit
to the cigarette machine, 
asserts his prowess, 
crushes stir straws.
Looking protected 
by the presence 
of his date, 
voices the intent 
to kill the fag 
at the bar.
The booth 
isn't romantic 
enough for her. 
Someone might 
walk in 
and see them.
Vulnerable 
with her back 
to the street, 
makes crosses 
in the ashtray.

---------------------------------------------------

They want out but once in a bus, they stay.
by Judy Meiksin
Jlo leaned against the telephone pole at her bus 
stop to light a Pall Mall. She sucked in a mouthful of 
smoke, then coughed it out. She pulled in more smoke 
and coughed it out again, choking so hard she kicked 
her bag over and her nurse's uniform fell out. Jo took in 
another fistful of smoke, the fumes clogging her airway, 
forcing her to bend over, spitting saliva over her fingers. 
She wiped her hands on her uniform and stuffed it 
back into the bag; her anger overwhelmed her and she 
yelled, "Goddamn it! You assholes. You shitheads."
she stamped out her cigarette, and, while smash
ing it into the sidewalk, she saw the butt as her 
coworkers. First she stomped on Louis, the LPN who 
said at the floor party yesterday, "Look at Jo! She's 
dancing punk!" Lori and Mrs. Greenfield, the supervisor, 
scowled at Jo and said she shouldn't have drunk so 
much. They tried to make her sit down but she wasn't 
drunk, she was dancing wildly with the music as she 
did with friends on her nights out. Beth, another nurse, 
whispered to Jo to calm down, people were looking at 
her. This was when Jo finally realized that she alone 
was joking, laughing, shaking her head to let her dark 
hair fly with the song, "Forget Me Not." Sweat 
glistened on her throat and trapped strands of hair.
Beth had pulled off a strand and buttoned one of Jo's 
buttons while whispering, "Calm down. People are 
looking at you."
jlo smeared the sopped cigarette tobacco in a 
straight line. According to Mrs. Greenfield, who lived 
with the same husband for twenty-seven years, whose
eldest daughter married a minister and youngest 
daughter married a mechanical engineer, the younger 
couple bearing three children who made straight A's 
and B's in kindergarten, first, and second grades, Jo 
must stop drinking. Alcohol killed off brain cells. Lori 
agreed. She lived in New York City and never went 
near 42nd Street. She fed pigeons outside her window 
and played Twister at her twenty-fourth birthday party.
when the bus arrived, Jo climbed in and wandered 
toward the back, lugging her tote bag along with her. 
She sat in a back seat and clenched her bag between 
her feet. Louis played politics at the hospital. He 
reported to superiors of his superiors when his 
superiors arrived late for work, or spent an extra couple 
minutes at lunch, or let family stay overtime with sick 
relatives. He told Jo at the party that punkers burned 
themselves with cigarette butts and stuck safety pin3 
through their cheeks. She started answering that she 
saw a few people who pierced their nipples, but he 
interrupted her with, 'They're called punks because 
they're weird and they're nuts and live off the 
government. You watch your step around me. If I see 
one cigarette burn on you I'll report you as dangerous 
to the patients and you'll" Jo angrily explained that 
she danced but did not hurt herself. Beth touched her 
elbow and whispered, "I'll take you home." On the way 
home the coworker explained that Louis believed that 
Jo was drunk and laughed at her anger. She advised Jo 
to stay calm at work because their coworkers resented 
anybody who laughed at anything other than a bedpan 
joke. "Oh, God," Jo sighed on the bus. Somebody 
laughed.

---------------------------------------------------

iiThis is the Suicide bus. Didnt you read the 
label on the side before you stepped on?
She looked beside her at the man who 
laughed. "Why did you laugh?"she asked.
The man stroked his gray beard and laughed
again.
Jo glanced down the aisle for another seat but 
all were filled.
The man laughed again.
A woman a few seats down the aisle 
responded with a chuckle.
After her chuckle, a few children in front of 
the bus giggled. A young man wearing a Scottish 
cap grinned and a woman seated beside him 
blurted a laugh.
Jo coughed. She had lit a Pall Mall and 
coughed out the smoke she inhaled. She breathed 
in more and coughed, hacked, spit; tears spurt out 
of her eyes and ran along her nose, circling her 
nostrils.
When more passengers were laughing, Jo 
I looked up, and out of the window. She suddenly 
became aware of pressure pushing her against the 
back of her seat. The driver pressed down on the 
progressively and everybody rocked the bus 
| with laughter. Jo asked the man with the gray 
' beard why they laughed, but he simply clasped his 
| hands together with joy. She asked why they were 
driving so quickly. She called to the driver, "Why 
are we speeding?"
He shouted back, "I'm excitedl Aren't you 
eager to drive off the cliff?"
She gasped, "What cliff?"
'That cliff!" He pointed ahead.
She saw the cliff quite a distance away yet.
She screamed, "No! No! No! No! Stop! Stop the 
bus! Let me off! No!"
People in the bus responded, "Doubt! There's 
doubt in the bus! Turn around, someone's having 
doubts!"
The driver immediately slowed down and 
swerved the bus around. While slowing down he 
asked, "Who's doubting? What's the matter?"
Jo stumbled to the front of the bus, "Let me 
fl You're crazy! Open the door!"
The driver responded, "I can't open the door."
"I want out.
"Too late. What's the problem?"
"I don't know what the fuck you're doing.
Ykp'i' siez+E"
"We're driving off the cliff."
"Why?"
This is the Suicide bus."
"What the fuck are you talking about?"
This is the Suicide bus. Didn't you read the
on the side before you stepped on?"
"No. Let me out."
"I can't open the door. Once you're in, you're 
WltH us; no changes. Are you ready now?
I don't want to kill myself. Let me"
"You don't want to end your life? Are you 
haPPy with yours?"
The man with the gray beard warned Jo,
^0nt lie. I saw you hacking from all your cigarette 
smoke."
She answered, 'Things could be better, but I
don't want to die."
The driver spoke to all the passengers, "We 
have a problem. She stepped on our bus acciden
tally and now we can't drive off the cliff with 
someone doubting the decision. We have to be 
100% sure or else it's unfair to whoever's in 
doubt."
"Why don't you just let me out?"
"I can't open the door."
"Liar. You opened it to let me in."
"No, you opened it when you touched it from 
the outside. I've nothing to open it with from the 
inside. She looked at a side window. "And the 
windows open just a crack. They're too thick to 
break through."
"I want out! You're crazy!"
The driver told the passengers, "We have to 
convince her to commit suicide with us."
Jo persisted, "No! I didn't see the sign. I didn't 
know."
The busdriver answered, 'The sign is on the 
right hand corner"
'The corner?"
"In back." He thumbed toward the back of the
bus.
"I didn't see it. C'mon, I step on the front of 
the bus, the sign never came in view." The 
busdriver shrugged. "It's not fair!" He shrugged 
again. "Why is it back there? That's stupid."
He answered, "We keep it inconspicuous; 
otherwise, some buses notice us and try to push 
us off the road."
"Why?"
"So we wreck and can't kill ourselves."
"Who?"
'The Schizophrenic bus."
"I don't understand."
The busdriver pointed out the window at a bus 
crossing an intersection. Across the side sparkled a 
sign: Schizophrenic. The pink and purple sparkles 
flickered about Jo's eyes and she exclaimed how 
she would not have negligently stepped onto the 
Suicide bus if its sign sparkled. The busdriver 
shrugged. The other bus jerked from side to side.
Jo asked, "Why do they stop you?"
'They think we're CIA and will kill them."
"Some kill themselves."
"I know." The busdriver jerked the bus toward 
the intersection and followed a little behind the 
Schizophrenic bus. He opened a window as far as 
it would goa crackand a foul odor stormed in, 
choking everyone back. He quickly closed the 
window and explained, 'That's dead bodies." He 
turned onto a street away from the other bus.
Jo wiped sweat from her forehead, "I know 
the odor. Why don't they come onto this bus 
instead of dying in there?"
'They're schizophrenics."
"So?"
"So they stay in the Schizophrenic bus."
Jo said, "Some of them kill themselves 
because the world they create threatens them.
They don't know any other way to cope because 
they don't have much control of their worlds.
You're not like that."
A young woman near the back of the bus said, 
"We don't have control."
Jo looked up the aisle. "Where are you?"
The woman stood in the aisle. "We don't have 
control."
"Yes, you do."
"No!"
"Why do you believe that?"
"I know. That's why I'm killing myself."
Jo inquired, compassionately, "What drove 
you?"
The young woman was eager. She was eager 
to express her anger. She was eager to pantomime 
her story as she spoke, drawing lines in the air 
with her hands. "I was with two friends. We went 
to a hillside. There're little caves there, everyone 
goes there to smoke. My friends and I sat in one of 
the caves and one of the friends lit up. A man in 
ragged clothes came by, ready to come in our cave. 
He saw us and I grinned and said something about 
him finding another cave. I was a little scared of 
him. A stranger. It's uncomfortable going to the 
caves to smoke grass but it's the thing to do, the 
place to go. Strangers there. Police could come by 
but my friends don't worry. We sit in the dirt and 
smoke. We heard a girl scream. We heard sounds, 
harsh ones, over the hill, swishing, whipping, 
beating, a girl scream from each whip. I gasped in 
dirt and we . .. damp dirt from the cave choked me 
almost. That's how I felt. We looked outside and 
heard the whipping echo, echo, whip, slashings, a 
girl screaming. We put out the joint, I remember 
that. My friend put out the joint. We went out of 
the cave and saw the men with torches. They 
heard the girl scream, too, and were getting ready 
to search for her. My friend saw one man with a 
torch, and recognized him. She pointed at him, 
terrified, and screamed, That's him!' She ran away 
from him, down the hill, acros the street and I ran 
after her. Forgot all about looking for the girl. I saw 
him and ran after my friend, I was so scared he'd 
catch me and beat me like the girl, I ran away, 
leaving everyone else. Leaving the other friend. I 
didn't warn anyone. If I did, he might've killed me, 
he might've tortured me till I died. I didn't warn 
anyone. I ran. Down the hill towards three men in 
whitish suits. I was scared they were with the men 
and I ran from them. I was scared they'd snatch 
me. I ran. I ran." The young woman paused. She 
rolled her eyes up and let herself fall to her knees. 
As she covered her face with her hands, she cried. 
She cried. She pointed to the girl seated across the 
aisle from where she sat, then let tears run 
through her fingers, roll down her fingers, her 
hands, drio to her lap as she sat on the floor.
When Jo looked at the scarred girl she nearly 
fell to her knees. A smoky streak of recognition 
whipped down her throat, chest, and smouldered 
in her stomach. She whispered to the girl, "I know 
you." She breathed hard. "Hospital. Emergency. I 
treated you."
Jo leaned with one hand on the bade of a seat 
and her other hand over her stomach. She began

---------------------------------------------------

moving toward the girl, using the seat backs as 
supports for each heavy, shaky step. She lifted one 
foot that felt like a gray boulder brick. She dragged 
her other foot over. She stared at the girl's marred 
face and remembered . . . remembered,as she 
moved forward, cleaning blood off the girl's face. 
Blood smeared all over her face wiped off and 
flooded the sink along with blood cleaned off her 
arms, her hands. Blood had spattered over her 
back, around to her stomach; red slashes wrapped 
around her legs. Jo wiped off the blood, flushed it 
out of deeply creased lines winding all over the 
girl's body. Jo moved forward in the aisle, hearing 
the girl's screams bounce off each wall as 
medicine scorched the girl's pink, raw, raw skin. 
Blisters and charcoaled skin spotted her body. Now 
the girl wore sandals and Jo was dose enough to 
see the tip of a scar from a burn that went up the 
side of the girl's leg to her knee. Jo had wanted to 
cover the girl with cool skin cream, even yogurt to 
soothe the pain. Jo now touched the girl's face, 
touched with her fingertips between rows of pale, 
pale lines, and as she touched she remembered 
the forced stillness as a doctor cleaned and 
cleaned inside a wound, and stitched it. The girl 
had murmured to be killed, and refused to take 
medication to knock her unconscious.
The girl gently tugged Jo's hand away. She 
spoke, Jo thought, so serenely. "I know you, too."
Jo wanted to know why the girl, maybe 
fourteen years old, chose this bus. The girl was still 
serene. 'They whipped me with a leather strap, 
beat me with their fists, burned my leg with a 
torch. No. They tried to. I tried to kick the torch it 
burned me."
"You're alive."
"A leather strap. I crawled and turned and 
rolled all over the ground, but each one had a 
leather strip. AH around me."
"You're alive now."
"After the leather strips, punches, kicks, burns, 
people tried to save me."
"Youre"
"My neck could've been cut halfway through, 
my head hanging past my shoulder, and people 
would still try to save me."
"You were still alive."
"My heart. . . with each beat blood spilled out 
of me."
"You were"
'That's dead."
"You wouldn't let us help you sleep, out of 
pain."
"If I stayed awake you might've felt the pain I 
showed and killed me."
"We don't kill. We helped you back to life."
"You d'dn't help me back to life."
"You're alive and out of pain!"
"In a suicide bus." The girl pulled her feet up 
onto the seat.
"Why?"
'They whipped me with a"
"That's past!" Jo persisted.
"It can happen again." The girl bowed her 
head and moaned. "Drive off already."
Jo paced the aisle. She paced to the man with 
the gray beard, past the young woman back in her 
seat, up to the busdriver. She turned and paced 
back, avoiding sight of the girC but the girl said,
"I'm not fourteen." Jo wanted to respond but the 
girl's head was still bowed. Jo continued up the
aisle. She moved back, between the girl and the 
young woman. She told them, "I disagree. It could 
happen again but isn't likely. Don't let those few 
people represent the world for you." Neither looked 
at her. The girl looked out her window and saw the 
road to the cliff. She smiled. She clasped her 
hands and spoke to the young woman, "There it 
is!"
Jo panicked, "I want out of here! Out!!" She 
climbed over the young woman and boy seated 
beside her and banged on the window. She tried to 
open it but the glass refused to budge past an inch 
opening. She pounded the glass with her fists, over 
and over. She sat and kicked with her feet. Each 
kick sent a shock wave up her leg. Sweat fell into 
her eyes and mixed with her tears from each shock 
wave, "Out!"
"Aah!" The man with the beard gasped and
fell.
Jo instinctively lept to him and checked his 
breath, tapping his shoulder, "Are you okay?" She 
gave him four quick breaths and found his 
sternum. With no pulse in his neck, she began 
compressions on his heart and said, "Louis, code." 
Receiving no response, she repeated, "Louis! Code!" 
She glanced up and two people grabbed her arms, 
pulling her away from the bearded man. "No!" She 
screamed, and kicked and struggled to return to 
him.
The man in a Scottish cap snapped, "Leave 
'im alone!"
Jo pleaded, "He needs help!"
"Leave 'im. He wants to die."
"No!" Now more people piled onto Jo, holding 
her against a seat near the front of the bus, they 
pinned her wrists, elbows, ankles and knees; they 
wedged her head between their hands and laid 
themselves across her body. She heaved to get air.
"It's easier for 'im this way. Dead."
The young woman tried to explain to Jo, "Why 
help bring him back just to let him ride off the cliff 
like the girl?"
Jo tried to squirm but was totaMy forced still. "I 
don't belong here!" she wailed.
The bus driver helped release her and showed 
her to the front window. "Where do you belong?" 
he asked. 'There?" He pointed to a bus with 
Hebrew songs chanted out the windows. Jo now 
saw many buses moving along the streets. The 
driver pointed to various busses as he spoke.
'That's got Jews waiting for the Messiah, and the 
Christian bus has people waiting for the Mesiah to 
come again since he didn't do the job first time 
around. Categories. No single bus, but it has to be 
split. That triple-decker bus is the Sex bus. It's got 
all men on the first level, all women above them, 
and men and women in the top."
Jo tried to turn her head away but the driver 
made her look again, "And the wagon attached 
behind the bus is for S&M'ers. See, even in the 
Sex bus people are separated. Those buses over 
the way there are separate philosophies. Do you 
belong on any of them? There's a Black bus, White 
bus, Chicano bus. People who can't see past their 
skin ... or each other's.
Jo nodded. She comprehended. She still 
wanted to leave the bus. The driver answered, 
"Some people in the other buses want to leave 
too. They want out but once in a bus, they stay.
Jo asked, "How did I get into this one?"
"You won't conform. What's left?"
"How can you know . . . anything about me?"
"You want to leave. You want to stay out of all 
the other buses. Am I right?"
"I want to stay out in the open."
"You won't conform. What's left?"
"What's that?" Jo pointed to a bus without a
sign.
The driver answered, "That's a Taoist bus."
"What?"
"People who attained the Tao."
"What's the Tao?"
"Nothingness."
Jo said, "You lost me."
The driver scratched his chest, "All I know is 
they believe in,leaving things alone, letting things 
take their natural course. They don't interfere with 
nature. They spat out all the values forced in by 
religion or politics, and whatever else."
"Are they happy?"
'They keep to what's simple. Of course they're 
happy. They don't force themselves to do things. 
They're very easy-going, childlike.''
Jo brightened up, "I want to go on their bus."
"You can't."
"I want"
"You're already on this one!"
People in the bus began yelling at Jo. "Let's 
get going! You're already on this bus." "Can't 
leave." "Let's go."
A monk came up to Jo. "When I took my oath 
of silence, my parents put me in a mental 
institution. Now you're holding me up from what I 
want. Let's go."
Jo looked out at a bus with the sign. "Taoist." 
She insisted, "I want to go on that bus."
The driver answered, 'That's the Taoist 
Religion!"
"Religion?"
'They believe in immortality spiritually and 
physically. The philosophers know of spiritual 
immortality alone."
Jo searched for the Taoist philosophers' bus, 1 
want the philosophers. Taoism."
The people again insisted on carrying out the 
suicide. They were angry at the delay and pounded 
the windows. The driver turned onto the road with 
the cliff.
Jo yelled, "No! Taoism! Let me attain the Tao!
People responded with chants, "Jo, smoke 
cigarettes because you stray."
Jo said, "Forget about Louis, Mrs. Greenfield 
and everybody else. They can keep their values."
The chant continued, "You won't change  
"I'll keep my values."
". . . You won't keep their values."
"I'll dance punk if I want, without sticking PinS 
throught my cheeks."
". .. Won't follow the norm. . .They chant 
faster as the wheels sped. "Can't dance punk. 
Won't conform. . . ."
"I'll keep my values, let nature take its course 
no interfering."
. . Smoke against the values. . . ."
"Spiritual immortality."
The wheels spun faster, rubber burned, the 
driver leaned forward. Everyone suddenly laugh ^ 
They laughed harder and louder as the bus veefl 
toward the cliff.
Jo screamed, "Let me out!" Her yells were 
swallowed in all the laughter and the bus flew1 
the cliff.

---------------------------------------------------

11
INVESTING
Appeared a peach tree 
overhanging the fence 
to our yard. Fruit 
would ripen 
each time we passed 
under it. My father 
recollected, sitting 
on the stoop, 
how 40 years before 
he deposited peach pits 
over that fence 
in one smooth pitch.
Louise Crocoll
thinking in this room in july
twice
there was a man
in a fat lacquered coon coat
under which in side with in
there was a three
beaned sprout of a squealer
named celia who said while saying
she said 
three times
in a green shrilled pout
mr. tapering quill 
mr. ringing still 
mr. duck phone bill 
mr. until
you just wait
till the rocketing stock
of ceramic scalps
mr. wiglet of the nonferrous faith
after a slim diner 
he retooled the cash box 
mulling through the shims 
skulling through the crowned brims 
as the quartet wandered
if this pen were as turf soaked 
as a vacationing congressman 
I doubt if my sockets would rip dry
but say
didnt I see your laundry 
in the train station
werent you wearing 
a shy collared 
masonry duplex
forgive me
if I must categorize
I have been tying 
my ears off with kite? 
pinning my tongue 
to frozen flagpoles.
Ward Tietz
____

---------------------------------------------------

12
good
BYE^ji
^^*AND
GOODluck
AMY
wrrtodd&
john!
GETa job.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanCarnival Preview Supplement
Team competition, egg toss planned for weekend
The Awards Ceremony closes the 
Spring Carnival festivities. The 
winners of booth, buggy, and 
team competitions will be 
announced at the ceremonies, 
held 9:30 p.m. Saturday at Tech 
Stadium.
Try a Hoagie, courtesy of Blimpies, Saturday at 2 p.m. The 100- 
foot hoagie will be located on the 
Cut.
You may still register for SPIf^ 
the Tug of War, and Raiders of the 
Lost Ark until 5 p.m. today. There 
are no more openings in the team 
competition.
The team competitions are events 
designed for those who are athletically 
minded, but not athletically bodied enough 
to push buggy at sunrise every morning. Six 
teams of eight members, four girls and four 
guys each, compete in eight events, includ
ing relay races, a scavenger hunt, and 
pyramids.
The competitions are'held Friday, at 2 
p.m., and Saturday, at 1 p.m., on the IM 
field. The first-place team will receive a 
trophy. Second- and third-place teams will 
receive sandwiches from Blimpies and Fat
sos, respectively.
Each guy will be paired with a girl in a 
three-legged race. The first team to build a 
human pyramid will win the Egyptian #Pyramid event.
Competitors will be given a list of Big 
Game for which they must hunt. Teams 
will have from the end of the events Friday 
to the start of the competition Saturday to 
locate these items.
The existence of each team depends on its 
good aim in the game of Survival. Forty 
eight balloons will be attached to a board, 
with eight color-coded balloons assigned to 
each team.
The object of the game is to pop the other 
teams balloons, and a team is eliminated 
when all of the balloons of its colors are 
popped.
A team will be given three darts per round 
to throw at the balloons.
Competitors play a giant game of twister 
in the Tornado event. Teams line up along 
the game board, and try to place their hands 
or feet in a color spot, determined by a 
spinner. If a person cannot find a spot or has 
any part of their body, except the palms of 
their hands and their feet touching the 
board, that person is out of the game. Twist
ing, but not pushing or shoving, is allowed. 
The last team to have a player on the board
In The Holy Grail Relay, each partici
pant must carry a grail full of water through
an obstacle course. At the end of the course, 
the person drinks the water, and passes the 
grail to the next team member, who must 
continue the relay. The first team to com
plete the obstacle course wins.
Faculty members will test their agility and 
skill in the faculty Egg Toss, held Friday at 1 
p.m. on the Cut.
Each team, composed of two people, gets 
one raw egg. Players line up in two straight 
lines facing their partners. The player with 
the egg passes the egg to his partner and the 
partner returns the egg, completing one 
round. At the end of each round, each 
partner takes one step backwards. Teams are 
eliminated when they break their egg. The
team with the last egg intact wins.
The first-place team receives lunch at the 
Panther Hollow Inn and the second-place 
prizes are gift certificates from C.J. Barneys.
Indiana Jones Lost Ark was found in the 
city of Tanis, but you may find this lost ark 
somewhere on the CMU campus.
The first clue may be found at the Skibo 
Information Desk anytime after noon, Fri
day. This clue will lead to the location of 
another clue on campus. Without knowing 
the phrase found on each clue, you cannot 
find the ark.
Spies is the new name of last years 
Assassins game, which got somewhat
dangerous. Each player is given a contractthe name of another player-who they mUst 
shoot with a water gun.
Once you have shot your assignment, y0ll 
gain his assignment and all contracts he has 
collected. You are out of the game when you 
are shot.
Contracts and water guns can be picked 
up at the Skibo Information Desk between] 
and 8 p.m. Thursday. Anyone still alive 
should report back to the Desk Saturday, |j 
p.m. A one dollar entrance fee is requirei
The person who has accumulated the 
most contracts over the weekend is the 
winner of SPIES, and collects the pot of 
money.
Imm
DTD sailed to first place in last years booth competition.
Opening Ceremonies will take 
place 5 p.m. Thursday on the Mid
way. The winner of the Most 
Adventurous Costume contest 
will perform the ribbon cutting 
ceremony and the CMU Jazz 
Ensemble will play. An airplane 
banner will advertise the opening 
of Spring Carnival.
Discount Carnival ride tickets will 
be on sale at the Skibo Informa
tion Desk between 9 a.m. and 5 
p.m., until noon Thursday.
Tug-of-War between teams of 
nine people each will be held 4 
p.m. Saturday on the IM Field 
Teams may register for the event 
until 5 p.m. today at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Student Entertainment will be 
held in the tent Saturday at 6 p.m. 
Chipper Albers will prpvide 
comedy from 6 to 7 p.m. Tom 
Willmorth will do mime from 7-8 
p.m. Albers and Willmorth, both 
sophomore drama students, per
formed at freshman orientation.
Caricatures done by professional 
artists will be for sale Friday, 1-5 
p.m., on the Midway.
Dig into the Great Sundae Dig-in!
The 100-foot sundae may be 
found on the cut Friday at 3 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnival Preview SupplementThe TartanPage 3
brothers and friends of Sigma Nu pop the cork after last years victory. Their A buggy, Lemur, won with a time of 2:11.53 and was driven by returning red head Amy Morton.
983 Sweepstakes preview
ompubookie's picks: toughest and fastest ever
1 1 " ' r '  -l---------'---------------------- ----------------u ,v, .1/-} Ke o nrnhlpm inn
elieve
By COMPUBOOKIE
i to the Tartan 
The Compubookie is a little green gnome 
uho lives under the Panther Hollow Bridge, 
le had enough strength after catching frostlast weekend to hand in his annual 
cks for the 1983 Sweepstakes.
Editor.
Last years races held litde surprise with 
 exception of the Zoos incredible Lemur. 
^ year should provide an abundance of 
t rolls with the three-wheeler again ruling 
- roads. Pika (as always) is gunning for the 
top spot, while CIA (surprisingly) 
is to have lost interest, and Beta (can you 
it?) is serious again. Due to CIAs 
Quantum leap in record time of two years 
last year had no record setting runs, 
is year, however, I expect one, two, 
aybe even three teams to break the aweme 2:10.4 mark. The womens races, with 
possibility of far faster buggys than ever 
fore, should also turn out a new record.
1 the alumni heats should provide a new 
crd as well as a good deal of laughter. 
lm looking forward to the best sweeppkes and the best carnival in CMU history.
must wait till Saturday to see who will 
P home with the long faces and short tror^es, and who will hold that number one 
pot for the next year. In the meantime, here 
e my observations and picks:
^eta: The macho men have been crying 
vlf since 79, but with a new buggy, they
may snake their way into a better finish this 
year. Theyll shave their heads and bellow a 
lot, but compared to the old BETA, their 
tails are still dragon.
CIA: These ingenious GDIs now have 
both the track team and the Mech. E. depart
ment backing them. Theyve replaced their 
tin foil with a real shell, which may help 
their effort, but you gotta wonder about 
their idea of using a bicycle as the lead vehi
cle for Black Magic.
Delta Tau Delta: Irrelevant.
Delta Upsilon: A wood bottom buggy is 
about as worthwhile as the movie Alice in 
Wonderland. The DU buggy program 
seems to have fallen off of a cliff, as did their 
parties this year. Maybe if they rolled their 
booth ...
Fringe: Since the Vanishing Point van
ished, the Fringe people seem to have lost 
their psych, but who knows, they may come 
back and make the top 40.
Kappa Sig: Theres a lot of big talk com
ing from KS, but how seriously can you take 
a team that hasnt brought home the big one 
since the big one (WWII). All things consi
dered, Id say theres more smoke than fire at
Kappa Sig.
NATO (Not ATO): The can smashers
smashed one too many this year and they 
cant roll (or do anything). Theyll still be 
out there though, excited as the rest of us, 
because theyre that kind of a house. I wish
them luck, in the future, when they come 
back.
p.s. They sure-as-hell oughta win T-shirt 
competition.
Phi Kap: If confidence won races, Phi 
Kap otto take first, but I doubt if theyll get 
to bob their heads in the winners circle any
way. I dont want to harpo on their buggy 
chairman, but I cant believe that the detach
able carrying handles on the rolling ham 
could possibly be the secret to a fast finish.
PIKA: The Pikes seem to be having their 
ups and downs this year. Their buggy keeps 
wading through the haybales at every freeroll. Still, their push team is rich with talent 
agens, so if they make the turn, I cant bear to 
think how fast they could go.
Pi Lambda Phi: Pioneers of the three 
wheeler, and the only team to know how to 
make one roll slow. Actually, the buggy is 
not that bad, its the push team that* no 
falcon good.
SAE: Id be lion if I said the bim-bams had 
a chance to win this year, but then, they 
didnt have a chance to win Greek Sing 
either.
Sigma Nu: The Zoo is trying to out fox 
the rest of the campus by getting the blimp 
behind them, just like Phi Kap (unfortu
nately Phi Kap is also trying to roll it). The 
pushers are ready and Amy Dalettuceeater is 
again of negligible weight so theres no rea
son why they cant improve last years win
ning time. B team could be a problem since 
Jane cant drive very well when shes not 
going head to head with Dave.
Theta Xi: The taxi rolls on! With Blade 
Lightning they may improve their time 
over years past, but theyre still a long way 
off.
ZBT: Sweepstakes and football just dont 
matter; its Greek Sing, Booth, and above all 
T-shirt competition that really count
Compubookie Picks:
Mens Heats
1. ZOO A - Any improvement on last year 
should guarantee a win.
2. PIKA A - Theyre looking for a sonny 
day.
3. BETA A - Possibly a comeback?
4. ZOO B - An especially fast buggy.
5. PIKA B - Always a threat.
6. CIA A - The magic remains, but the 
muscle is gone.
Others to watch: KS A, BETA B\ PIKA 
C\ CIA B.
Womens Heats
1. CIA - Theyve got it.
2. SDC - Theyve lost it.
3. Pi Lam - Mass sex change.
Alumni Heats
1. PIKA - They dont know when to quit. 
Best Race: Heat 8 
Winning^ Time: 2:09.2

---------------------------------------------------

This student dressed adventurously.Balloons were the favorite of both young and old.
Little ones enjoyed the merry-go-round last year.

---------------------------------------------------

Kappa Kappa Gamma took honors for their booth last year.
pring 
arrival
1983
me like it rough"
dventure

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The Tartan Carnival Preview Supplement
Debbie Kovacs helped push CIAs Black Magic on to the 1982 Womens Sweepstakes tide, and set a new course record of 2:49.29.
Sigma Nu, PIKA, and Beta favorites
Buggy chairmen comment on this years' racei
By D.R. and J.B.
Tartan Staffivritm
To get an inside look at this years Sweep
stakes, the Tartan has asked most of the 
buggy chairmen from each team for their 
opinions cm various aspects of buggy. We 
asked the chairmen for the names erf their 
buggies, for any technological improve
ments from last year, how their buggies will 
finish in this year's races, and who do they 
think will be up there in the top six. These 
are the answers.
Sigma Nu
Names of buggies entered: Lemur, ESP,
Scorpion
Technological developments or edge:
None
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Well be close
Winners: PIKA, CIA, BETA
Zeta Beta Tau
Names of buggies entered: Prophecy,
Pegasus
Technological developments or edge:
Modifications
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Were getting 
organized for next year
Winners: Sigma Nu  Best Buggy,
PIKA  Like their new buggy
SDC
Names of buggies entered: Blue Haze, Excalibur, Triskelion, Opus
Technological developments or edge: 
Wheels
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Not really sure 
how were going to finish"
Winners: BETA  Rolling the best, 
Sigma Nu  Favorite
Beta Theta Pi
Names of buggies entered: Vixen, Pres
ence, Echo, 8 to 5
Technological developments of edge: 
Enthusiastic freshmen and lighter 
buggies
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Were looking 
for 2 in the top 6
Winners: Sigma Nu, PIKA
Kappa Sigma
Names of buggies entered: ATS, Minuteman, Mirage, 3495
Technological developments or edge: 
Refining what we have, finishing off what 
we started, and everythings right
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Think we will 
be in the top 6
Winners: All I care about is us. Let eve
rybody else do what they want
Pi Lamda Phi
Names of buggies entered: Legend, Fal
con, Dolphin
Technological developments of edge: 
Found a way to put pizza sauce in 
bearings
Outlook for Sweepstakes: 2 in the top 
half
Winners.Sigma Nu  Always are good
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Names of buggies entered: Intrepid, 
Hustler, Limo
Technological developments and edge: 
Nothing new
Outlook for Sweepstakes: Give it our 
best shot and hope for top half.
Winners: Sigma Nu  Buggy fanatics, 
BETA, CIA, PIKA
Phi Kappa Theta
Names of buggies entered: Stiletto,
Technological developments or 
New buggy
Outlook for Sweepstakes: We have 
shot at top 6
Winners: Sigma Nu, Beta: Fastest time
Pi Kappa Alpha:
Names of buggies entered: God 
Bullet, Bandit, White Lightning 
Technological developments or (l 
Push teams are the best and technolog! 
good as the best of them
Outlook for Sweepstakes: We w _ 
two in the top six. Hoping for 1st and^ 
Winners: PIKA, Sigma Nu - Knows 
theyre doing, BETA - Making
^

---------------------------------------------------

Carnival Preview Supplement The TartanPage 7
yerything you always 
(anted to know about buggy 
it were afraid to ask
r SUSAN CASE
l for the Tartan 
3ing downhill at high speeds may not 
i exceptional to the everyday driver. But 
[t him flat on his stomach and give him a 
rs-eye view of the road whizzing by half a 
away and hes got some hairy adveni ahead.
its what students at Camegie-Mellon 
diversity have been doing since 1920 at the 
-,1s annual Spring Carnival. And 
fve been loving every minute of it. 
ie buggies, which started out as rolling 
Ites and cast-iron bathtubs on wheels, 
(w are built with fiberglass and lightlight steel or aluminum frames. The rigs 
made by CMU campus organizations 
stly fraternities) and sometimes cost as 
lich as $5,000 each. Each buggy has a large 
tailfin thats used to push it up the five 
ull runs in the one-mile course through 
; citys Schenley Park.
lictably, the buggies are on the small 
e, with vital stats of 24 inches or less in 
Ight from ground to dome tip (including 
1 inches of ground clearance). Wheelbase 
Jour feet and total length 5'8". The averbelly-buggy driver whos 5'5" tall 
Ighs 100 lbs., steers the buggys wheels 
i hand levers and stops the rig with disc 
kes. All controls are up front. With the 
ksical requirements being what they are
to keep weight, resistance and friction low, 
its litde wonder why many CMU coeds take 
on the driving chores.
The wheels on each buggy were origi 
nally 24-inch bicycle wheels but theyve 
been replaced by 12-inch chemically-coated 
rubber, which retains heat. The wheels 
heated before the race time to insure greater 
speeds.
Each team consists of six students  five 
pushers and one driver. The pushers steer 
the buggies uphill as fast and as straight as 
they can. But on downhill runs, the drivers 
are on their own.
Buggies are judged not only on speed but 
on design. Judges, chosen for their knowl
edge of materials and technology, rate each 
buggy for overall appearance, mechahical 
workings and innovations. For a buggy to 
win the design trophy, it must finish in the 
top half of the contenders, showing its 
mechanics are useful and not simply for 
show.
Although the endre race lasts just 2% min
utes, many months go into building, stra
tegy and practice sessions. And just 
after the race is over, it all starts anew.
This piece originally appeared in 
Mechanix Illustrated magazine. Copyright 
CBS publications 1979. Susan Case is a 1978 
graduate of CMU.  Ed.
CIAs Black Magic pulled away from the field in this heat but finished thud overall.
a s B buggy, Echo, took the chute a litde too fast last year.
1 s push team rolled White Lightning to a fifth place in 2:2032.
MEN
HEATLANE 1LANE 2LANE 3
1TX-CSAE-CPLP-C
2KS-DCIA-CBETA-C
3SN-CBETA-DPKT-B
4PIKA-DSDC-D
5SAE-ATX-A
6PKT-CBETA-BDTD-B
7SDC-CZBT-BCIA-B
8PIKA-CFRINGE-ASN-B
9DTD-AKS-APLP-B
10SDC-BPKT-ADU-B
11PIKA-BSAE-BPKT-D
12FRINGE-BKS-BBETA-A
13SN-ATX-BSDC-A
14CIA-AZBT-ADU-A
15PIKA-APLP-AKS-C
WOMEN
HEATLANE 1LANE 2LANE 3
1TX-AFRINGE-BCIA-A
2SN-APLP-ASDC-B
3BETA-AKS-ACIA-B
4CIA-CSDC-AFRINGE-A
ALUMNI
HEATLANE 1LANE 2LANE 3
1KS-ASAEPIKA-1
2DUCIADTD
3BETAZBTPKT
4SNKS-2PIKA-2
5PKT-2SDCPLP

---------------------------------------------------

Mi H KlEMENTZ  COMMITTEE DESIGNER -JOHN WOOUK1D8E
9:00 Sweepstakes11:00 Forbes Gallery Juried Show. Open until 6:0012:00 Midway Opens1:00 CMU Men's Tennis vs. Allegheny fTeam Competition I.M. Field2:00 100 ft Hoagies CutJazz Choir TentThe Mikado' CFA Kresge Theatre4:00 Tug-of-War I.M. FieldSpeedbump Cruisers Tent6:00 Spies game ends Gray MatterStudent Entertainment Tent8:00 Scotch and Soda Carried Away'' BallroomThe Mikado" CFA Kresge Theatre9:00 Midway Closes9:30 Awards Ceremony Tech Stadium10:30 SDC Saturday Movie Blazing Saddles'' Tent
Saturday, April 23
SPRING CARNIVAL 1983 
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS
Thursday, April 21
10:00 Buggy Design Display and Competition Gym11:00 Forbes Gallery Jurried Show Open until 6 002:00 Roller Skating on the Cut Until 6:005:00 Opening Ceremonies Midway5:30 Airplane Banner Over campusJazz Ensemble Midway6:00 AB Thursday Films "Hunchback of Notre Dame DH22107:00 Begin "Spies" (Assassins game)Pick up assignment, rule sheetand water gun at Skibo Info Desk8:00 George Gee TentScotch and Soda Carried Away" Ballroom"The Mikado" CFA Kresge Theatre8:30 AB Thursday Films Hunchback of Notre Dame DH221010:00 Fireworks I.M FieldRaindate April 2211:00 AB Thursday Films Hunchback of Notre Dame" DH221012:00 Midway Closes
9:00 Sweepstakes v11:00 Forbes Gallery Juried Show Open until 6:0012:00 Midway OpensRaiders of the Lost Ark Scavenger Hunt. Skibo Info Desk. 1:00 Faculty Egg Toss CutCaricatures Unlimited Midway until 5:00 2:00 Team Competition I.M. FieldActual Size, rock group Tent3:00 The Great Sundae Dig-ln CutStunts, new wave group Tent
6:00 AB Friday Movie "The Spy Who Loved Me" OH 2210Scotch and Soda "Carried Away" BallroomThe Mikado' CFA Kresge Theatre6:30 . T-Shirt Contest: Judging at 7 00 Gray Matter8:00 AB Concert: Renaissance - Pousette Dart GymAB Friday Movie "The Spy Who Loved Me" DH 22108:30 GSO Square Dance with the Coal Country Cloggers Tent10:00 AB Friday Movie "The Spy Who Loved Me" DH221012:00 Midway ClosesAB Friday Movie The Spy Who Loved Me DH 2210
Friday, April 22
