The Newspaper bf Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, Volume 81, Number 6, October 14, 1980
Housing crunch at CMU 
little relief foreseen
by Bob Harr
CMU, like other universities across the 
country, is in the midst of a housing crunch.
At the start of this semester 24 men and 24 
women here at CMU were housed in con
verted lounges. In addition, 25 men were 
housed in empty spaces in fraternities.
All of the men and most of the women 
temporarily staying in converted lounges 
have been moved to permanent rooms.
There is also a waiting list, comprised 
mostly of transfer students, of people wait
ing for on-campus housing. Most of the 
men on this list were housed by the first 
week of school while the womens sitution is 
not as bright.
But this is not just a problem at CMU. 
Across the country, dorms are full, leaving 
the unlucky cramped into either converted 
study lounges, doubles changed to triples, or 
even motel rooms. In some cases, the inconvience lasts for only a few weeks. In other 
schools it takes months to cure the problem.
About seven years ago, the demand for 
domi housing at CMU began to rise. First, 
one more occupant was added to many 
rooms; singles became doubles, doubles 
became triples, and triples became quads. 
Then, five years ago, the Shirley Apartments 
were rented, creating 41 more spaces. And at 
other times, more apartments and housing 
continued on page 5
Architecture
Search committee report released; policy statement delayed
by Renee Rosenfeld
In a conversation with The Tartan last 
Tuesday, CMU Vice President Richard Van 
Horn indicated that a statement of policy 
and direction for the Department of Archi
tecture would be released on Thursday, 
October 9th. No such statement has teen 
inade available. A progress report, includ
ing a statement of policy is expected from 
Sauer on November 1st. CFA Dean Akram 
Midani did, however, release the Report of 
the Department Head Search Committee.
The Report, dated March 1979, strongly 
endorses Louis Sauer as Department Head 
of Architecture. The eight-member commit
tee recommended that formal discussions 
with Sauer begin immediately. The report 
also offers the appointment of Professor 
Robert Taylor as its alternative, if an (agree
ment) with Sauer could not have been 
reached.
In addition, the report stresses the com
mittees concern over the unprecedented 
length of time taken to choose a new7 Head 
and the credibility gap created because of the 
searchs three-year existence. According to 
the report: the undersigned committee 
members underscores its concern that the 
exceptionally long search, encompassing 
three years and three committees has a 
potentially debilitating effect that can only 
be overcome by an exceptionally strong and 
real expression of support on the part of the 
administration. Failure to do so would, in 
our opinion, have potentially damaging
Inside this issue:
Editorial
Overcrowded housing conditions...........page 2
News
An and design departments evaluated .. page 4 
Student Senate approves Architecture
dept resolution...................................page 5
Features
Steve Rayshichs A view from the left . page 10 
Entertainment
Anne Lux reviews The Runner
Stumbles ............................................page 13
Sports
Tartans lose to Bethany 16-13 .................page 15
Womens tennis tram wins title...............page 16
implications.
Last Friday, Sauer and Midani took tours 
of department facilities in Margaret Morri
son and Doherty Hall. The tour of facilities 
was completed yesterday in the Fine Arts 
Building. Midani reports that refurnishing 
is necessary. Conditions of facilities and 
space allocation have been major concerns to
student leaders in their reports of the past 
several months Rifk Danko rocked an enthusiastic crowd after Papa John Creachs lead-in at the l.B. concert last Sunday night
Financial Aid bill approved
Congress makes changes in Student Aid program
by Alice Alfonsi
Congress recendy passed the college-aid 
bill, extending student aid and other higher 
education programs through fiscal year 
1985.
Now public lawr, the $48.4 billion bill will 
increase interest rates on guaranteed student 
loans to 9%, from 7% in past law. Interest 
rates on the national direct student loans 
will go to 4%, from the old 3%. The bill also 
increased the limits on direct grants to stu
dents, so that the neediest students will get 
up to $2,600 a year, or 70% of their educa
tional costs by 1985.
The Senate rejected the first version of the 
financial aid bill (H.R. 5192) on September 
4 by a 45-43 vote, panicking student aid 
associations. The Carter administration was 
also surprised at the Senates opposition to 
the bill. Higher education lobbyists cam
paigned for the bill, including a mass of 
phone calls from college and university pres
idents, asking senators to clear the bill.
The main obstacle in passing the aid bill 
was deciding where to cut funds. In the 
second set of negotiations between the 
House and Senate, the bill was cut by $1.4 
billion. The Senate Budget Committee also 
insisted that the loan program for students 
be cut by $378 million in order to keep 
spending in line with 1981 budget ceilings.
The bill will also reduce authorization 
levels in 11 higher-education programs, and 
strengthen Congresss authority to put into 
effect a new tost saving mechanism for 
financing National Direct Student Loans - 
with funds borrowed from the Federal 
Financial Bank instead of with direct
appropriations.
Congress has limited control over spend
ing for guaranteed loans. When cutbacks 
come, they affect those grant programs 
which are controlled by direct appropria
tions. For example, this year Congress res
cinded $140 million in Basic Educational 
Opportunity Grants to help balance the fis
cal 1980 budget.
Senator Howard Metzenbaum, (D-OH), 
said, In other words, we spend our funds to 
assist students in the middle- and upperincome brackets, and then we are forced to 
cut back on grants to the needy.
Changes in the Guaranteed Student 
Loans, such as increased loan limits and 
higher interest rates for new borrowers, will 
go into effect on January 1.
New' programs - including aid to urban 
universities and new graduate fellowships - 
will not begin operating until academic year
This year the greeks at CMU enjoyed one 
of their most successful rush periods ever, 
gaining a total of 280 undergraduates.
. Friday night was fraternity pledge night 
and 233 men joined one of the twelve 
national fraternities on campus. DU and 
ZBT led with 30 pledges each. Beta and 
Kappa Sig tied with 28, followed by Theta 
Xis 22. Pika, DTD, and Phi Kap were close 
behind with 19, 18, and 17 pledges respec
tively. SAE ranked ninth with 13 new 
members, trailed by Sigma Nu with 12. 
ATO and Pi Lam followed with eight
1981-82 because Congress has not approp
riated funds for those programs in the fiscal 
year that began October 1.
Highlights of the bill include:
Basic Educational Opportunity Grants
Raises the $1,800 annual limit on the 
awards to $1,900 in academic year 1981-82.
Eliminates the four-year limit on eligibil
ity for grants. This allows a student to 
receive aid for as long as he is an 
undergraduate.
Ratable reduction schedule for cutting 
awards if Congress does not appropriate 
enough money to finance the program 
fully. The largest reductions in grants will 
be made to students with the least need. 
Supplemental Educational Opportunity 
Grant
Annual spending ceiling low-ered from 
$400 million to $350 million for initial
continued on page 7
members each.
Earlier this month the sororities added 47 
new members to their chapters. Delta Delta 
Delta led with 15 pledges; Qii Omega fol
lowed closely with 14. Kappa Alpha Theta 
ranked third, pledging 8 undeigraduates. 
Delta Gamma pledged 6, and Kappa Kappa 
Gamma took 4 new members.
Dan Nichols, UFO President, summed 
up rush as being, "A very positive time for 
the greek system, and would like to extend 
his congratulations to all the organizations.
Greeks gain 280 pledges

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Housing crunch causes social and academic problems
Getting adjusted to college life is difficult for 
the best of us. However, the normal 
adjustment period is prolonged when 
unsuspecting freshmen are dirust into a 
crowded, often closetless, room with two or 
more roommates. Stress and irritation are 
inevitable during the first few weeks of any 
semester with concerns over registration, 
financial aid, food service and student 
accounts; but the added exasperation of being 
stuck in living quarters that are plainly 
inadequate is often enough to make new 
students perpetually wary of the University 
administration and college life in general.
Irritation aside, there are legitimate 
academic and social problems that arise from 
overcrowded housing situations. Research has 
shown that students living in inadequate 
housing facilities have more academic and 
social difficulties than students housed in 
proper rooms. Its no wonder that studying is* 
more difficult in cramped quarters and that 
roommate problems are exagerated when there 
are additional space constraints to argue 
about. Its also not unusual to have resentment 
between floor members and the residents 
inhabiting that floors lounge. In all, what is a
difficult period for most people becomes an 
unbearable burden for those unlucky enough 
to be displaced by the overcrowded conditions.
Although CMU is not the only victim of the 
nationwide university housing crunch, we 
cant help but note the callousness with which 
this administration is handling-the crisis. It is 
not unusual for a student who has suffered 
along for several weeks or months to be 
notified that they are to vacate their room 
within twenty-four hours. The Housing office 
has no concern about whether the student 
must meet certain academic demands during 
that twenty-four hour period: no test or paper 
can justify failure to vacate the premises on 
time. The irony of the situation is that after the 
students have harriedly left their overcrowded 
lounge housing, the lounge is promptly 
locked for several more weeks without 
residents and without benefit to the floor  
members who need the lounge area.
We cant help but think that the housing 
crunch would be better remedied if the 
Housing office would notify the affected 
students before school begins, assist them in 
finding roommates, or direct upperclassmen - 
to available off-campus housing. In this way
students would not have to deal with the 
unnecessary burden of overcrowded facilities. 
The only benefactor in the situation is the 
University, which is guaranteed payment for 
more than full occupancy, while students who 
are paying for rooms get little- more than 
oversized closets.
Ronald Reagan: a caricature or a leader?
Last week President Carter said that if 
denied re-election America might be separ
ated, blacks from whites, Jews from Chris
tians, North from South, rural from urban. 
Although this is just the latest ridiculous 
verbal attack from a politically desperate 
president, the possible reality of Ronald 
Reagan as president is an interesting 
concept.
xmiBtobo 
Leigh ty
Would he stop Social Security? Is he a 
racist? What is his tax cut plan? Would he 
lead us to w ar? Can he reduce the size of 
federal government? Can he govern? Who is 
this former actor and California governor?
Domestic Policy
Reagan is now famous for his right-wing 
conservative stands and controversial offthe-cuff remarks. However, his record in 
California (1966-74) doesn't always match 
his statements. Perhaps the best method for 
projecting Reagans domestic performanceif elected president-would be to look at the 
relationship between what he says and what 
he does.
The base of Reagans economics policy is 
a) to establish the Kemp-Roth 30 percent 
personal income tax cut and foster machine 
and equipment cost write offs for business 
and b) cutting the federal budget by about 
$1% billion through reducing waste, 
extravagance, abuse and outright fraud. 
Reagan declines to list specific programs for 
which funding will be reduced; he also 
emphasizes that no major federal programs 
will be eliminated.
Opponents say that such budget cuts are 
virtually impossible (especially with Con
gress being controlled by the special inter
ests) and Reagans program w-ould be 
*inrealistic and highly inflationary .
Reagan also proposes a hiring freeze for 
the federal government, similar to a moder
ately successful one he enacted in California
(which had great financial woes when he 
took office.) His other economic proposals 
had dubious results, as most California 
taxes and the state budget rose sharply; in 
fact, Reagan set the stage for the Proposition 
13 tax revolt of 1978. As governor, he was 
more successful with welfare reform and 
(eventually) education than keeping overall 
costs down.
With Social Security, Reagan has been 
accused of wanting to make it voluntary 
(which .he has suggested in the past, but 
lately denies.) Reagan wants to make Social 
Security financially sound-a major goal of 
his administration-but he gives no specifics 
on how he will do this.
Although his environmental record in 
California is good, Reagan has recently 
angered some environmentalists with talk of 
relaxing laws. He also dismissed automo
bile pollution as much less dangerous than 
emissions from Mount St. Helens when 
exactly the opposite is true. Reagan has fab
ricated similar stories concerning Alaska oil 
reserves, federal bureaucracy, automobile 
regulations and the Ku Klux Klan (inciden
tally, Reagan voted against Californias 
1963 open housing law and the 1964 U.S. 
Civil Rights Act).
On other domestic issues, Reagan stands 
firmly on the archaic Republican platform, 
which opposes ERA and other civilized 
developments in the 20th century. This doc
ument suggests that we turn back the clock 
presumably to the good old days of child 
labor, widespread disease, unchallenged 
business monopolies, adventuresome 
border wars and other great happenings of 
the past.
What does all of this mean in 1980? Rea
gans California record is rather moderate, 
not extremely conservative as many people 
believe. As president, his performance prob
ably would be similar. Nevertheless, Rea
gans vague budget cuts and controversial 
tax plan are unworkable-it is naive and 
potentially dangerous toestablish such poli
cies. Also, many of Reagans statements and 
positions are still worrysome.
Supreme Court
In one sense, the 1980 presidentail elec
tion may also select a new, long-term head
for our third branch of government, the 
courts. A majority of justices in the US 
Supreme Court are over 70 and/or recendy 
in poor health; thus, the next president may 
have the rare opportunity to appoint a polit
ical majority of compatible political 
ideology.
Once in lifetime tenure, appointees 
may not always follow a predictable ideol
ogy, much to the dismay of many recent 
presidents. Nevertheless, a politician who 
has learned from this experience (as Reagan 
did when governor) usually learns how to 
overcome it (as Reagan showed in his 
second term when he picked an ultra
conservative former aide who failed the bar 
exam).
Reagan has indicated that, if given the 
opportunity, he would appoint conservative 
justices who support his views on abortion 
and family relations. While Reagan as presi
dent would have the right to select justices 
with his general conservative philosophy, it 
is very wrong to appoint judges based on a 
commitment to only one issue.
Reagan has shown his ignorance of the 
Supreme Court in the past, raving and 
charging that justices put themselves above 
the law when they disagreed with him. It 
should be remembered that a vote for Rea
gan is probably a vote for a conservative 
court, a court selected not on overall princi
ple and character but instead one narrow 
issue.
Foreign Policy
The real danger of a Reagan presidency is 
in foreign policy. Ronald Reagan has no 
experience with foreign policy or the 
responsibility connected to such decisions. 
For example, Ronald Reagan:
Opposed Panama Canal treaties, failing 
to recognize the history, political necessities 
and mutual benefits for both countries.
After the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, 
he illogically suggested a U.S. blockade of 
Cuba which our country was not prepared 
for.
Wants SALT II killed, wants military 
superiority over Soviets (not parity-this way, 
they will push for superiority over us, etc., 
etc.) resulting in expensive new arms race 
and or nuclear war.
Called Vietnam War a noble cause 
showing great distortion of historical facts.
Called for governmental ties with Tai
wan, damaging diplomatic relations with 
China which running mate George Bush 
was unable to repair.
These statements are typical of the shal
low knowledge Ronald Reagan possesses in 
foreign policy. This is an area where every 
word in every statement is significant; not 
only is Reagans simplistic and immature 
view of the world dangerous, so are his cas
ual ad libs.
The strongest elements in Reagans favor 
are his management experience (as former 
California governor) and the high quality of 
the people around him. Running-mate 
Bush has substantial foreign policy expe
rience which partially counteracts Reagans 
ineptitude in diplomacy; also, Reagans , 
advisors and prospective cabinet members 
are generally very competent (and very 
conservative).
Reagan as a leader delegates much 
authority, so a Reagan administration on 
the surface appears competent-certainly no 
worse than the present administration. Rea
gan also knows how to use symbolism; he is 
right about being optimistic for the future, 
but wrong for his simplicity in getting there.
Some troubling questions about Reagan 
remain: Can a president at one end of the i 
political spectrum lead and serve a diverse 
American people? What kind of military' 
decisions would Reagan make as 
commander-in-chief? Who will run 
America-Reagan, his advisors or both? 
Physically, can a 70 year old man be an 
effective president for four years? Can Rea
gan erase the caricature he has created of 
himself and be taken seriously as leader of 
the free world?
At best, the selection of Ronald Reagan to ^ 
the presidency is an uneasy gamble with 
uneasy odds. The caricature of Ronald Rea
gan is a frightening thought, but so is four 
more years of Jimmy Carter. The candidacy 
of John Anderson and the overall election 
will be discussed next issue.
Bob Leighty is a Junior majoring in Tech
nical Writing and Editing and is Editorial 
Assistant for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

October 14, 1980The TartanPage 3
Letters to the Editor
What is going on?
Editor:
Two weeks ago, the The Tartan printed 
an article concerning activities in the 
architecture department. As a concerned 
architecture student, I am appalled and 
disappointed that no one has cared to 
respond to the students on this subject  
particularly the architecture, fine arts and 
university administrations.
I am angered that I have to spend time 
speculating on the goals and quality of the 
architecture department. Arent we paying 
tuition to be educated? Arent we paying for 
services of a faculty and administration that 
are concerned about the quality of education 
provided by the department?
I have no gripe about changes within a 
department as long as the changes are for the 
better  but I have no idea at all what is 
going on in the architecture department.
Though promised by President Cyert in 
late August, Louis Sauer still hasnt made 
available to the students a copy of the 
departmental goals, objectives and 
academic concerns. ...perhaps he doesnt 
have any.
A level 3 arch, student
Give Carter credit
Editor:
Bob Leightys October 7 article, Jimmy 
Carter: Why not the incompetent in 80? is 
not much more than a rehash of this years 
anti-Carter newspaper editorials. In an 
effort to characterize the President as the
naive fool/slick politician, he has 
uncritically repeated the familiar charges. 
There are the silly ones that would only 
come up in an election year, regarding 
Billygate and the stealth bomber. Others 
portray more or less ordinary politicking in 
the worst possible light (and incidentally 
there hasnt really been a key Wisconsin 
primary for the Democrats in 20 years).
Most of all I disagree with Mr. Leightys 
assesment of Carter as a poor manager and 
bungler. It is now apparent that this current 
recession is hardly the worst decline since 
the Great Depression. The performance of 
the economy, horrible to Mr. Leighty, 
must in fairness be judged against what was 
indeed possible. After the shock dealt to oUr 
energy-intensive, and particularly 
petroleum-intensive economy following the 
Iranian Revoltuion, the administration was 
faced with inevitable economic contraction 
in terms of real wealth. It is how they are 
pulling the economy, with the tools 
available, through this crisis that is the true 
test of management skills. Weve been 
scorched, but not consumed by inflation; 
chilled but not frozen in recession. Mr. 
Carter is not a magician and should not be 
held accountable for the near-sighted and 
anachronistic management and labor 
leadership in such huge industries as 
automotive, steel, and coal during the last 
decade.
As much as die accession to power by that 
bearded Jim Jones in Iran has impaired our 
domestic and foreign political goals, it
A look at a Reagan cabinet
As the candidates enter the final stretch 
with Reagan still maintaining a comforta
ble lead, many handicappers are now put
ting their energies into predicting a Reagan 
cabinet. William Simon, John Connally 
and Scoop Jackson are the names that keep 
popping up.
Bill
f Til
Most of the pundits have Jackson pegged 
as Secretary of Defense. This would be a 
shrewd selection. In Jackson, an influential 
Senate Democrat, the new administration 
would gain both a voice which commands 
bi-partisan respect on Capital Hill and an 
advocate of a strong national defense.
William Simon, who served under both 
Nixon and Ford, is expected to head the 
Treasury Department. However, The Amer
ican Spectator, a conservative political mag
azine, presents an interesting scenario which 
has Reagan nominating Simon as President 
of The World Bank, a post that Robert MacNamara gives up in March. The publica
tion claims that this selection is the most 
important Reagan will have to make. MacNamara will leave office with the borrowing 
nations buried under a 3 billion dollar debt. 
Economic conditions are so bad in most of 
the lesser developed countries that the 
potential for war, famine, revolution or 
communist take-over is tremendous. The 
only relief is for debtor nations to employ 
supply-side monetary and fiscal reforms. 
They feel that Simon is one of the nations 
foremost experts on supply-side economics 
and he is the man to take on this ardous task. 
If nothing else, their argument provides 
food for thought. (It is not known whether 
Reagan has taken heed of this suggestion.)
John Connally, a oondidate for the 
Republican nomination and former Secre
tary of the Treasury, has recently returned 
from his first trip to Israel, presumabley to 
assess the fragile Middle-East situation. This 
may indicate that he is headed to the State 
Department. However, Alexander Haig and 
Donald Rumsfield are also said to be strong 
candidates for the cabinet post which has 
had the most historical significance.
William V. Allen, Reagans current chief 
foreign affairs advisor, will be the National 
Security Council Advisor. However, the 
post will not be as important under Reagan 
as it is currently in the Carter 
administration-Allen will not wield as 
much power as Zbig.
Martin Anderson, currently a Reagan eco
nomic advisor and scholar at the conserva
tive Hoover Institute at Stanford will serve 
in some economic capadty-perhaps Chair
man of the Council of Economic Advisors. 
George P. Shultz and Casper Weinberger, 
two old Washington hands, will also play a 
role in a Republican administration.
Thomas Sowell, a UCLA economist and 
current Reagan advisor, is a rising star who 
will be a vital part of a Reagan presidency. 
Sowell is a black scholar who attacks current 
government policies which he feels have 
thwarted Black development. He opposes 
programs which are based on the assump
tion that Blacks are unable to acheive the 
economic status other minority groups 
before them have obtained. He has recently 
completed a book in which he argues that in 
American Society, the locus of decision 
making has moved away from the individ
ual and family toward government. He 
adds, "with government, decision-making 
has moved away from elected officials to 
insulated institutions such as administrative 
agencies and appointed judiciary. These 
are mainstream Republican arguments. His 
economics also jibe with Reagans. He has 
written another book about Says Law, the 
heart of classical economic theory.
Young, intelligent, conservative and 
black-Thomas Sowell will be a tremendous 
political asset to Reagan. Remember the 
name, I predict well be hearing a great deal 
of him in the near future.
would not have been moral or even 
productive to directly intervene to prevent it 
Mr. Leightys cynical remark that it is an 
American tradtion to support ruthless 
dictators is the low point of his article. Mr. 
Carter has been concerned with ending such 
traditions.
Finally, Jimmy Carters promises were 
made in good faith. He has since learned the 
limits of his office. Hopefully he is learning 
how to better work with Congress. Our 
country can overcome nagging 'moral, 
economic, and foreign problems, but first 
we must stop looking for scapegoats. 
Blame must be fairly assessed, only for the 
sake of improvement.
Geoige G. Polak
Are nukes here to stay?
Editor
Bill Kapners commentary on the Maine 
Yankee issue (editorial, Oct. 7) once more 
shows that the almighty dollar comes before 
all else -- a sad state of affairs. But an even 
greater tragedy is that there are people like 
Kapner who suggest to people to succumb 
to the odds, and who live by the adage, If 
you cant beat em, join em.
Being a history' major, Kapner should 
know about the odds against the thirteen 
original colonies when they decided to 
procure their independence two centuries 
ago. Had he been writing then, would he 
have written, It is time for Thomas 
Jefferson and those around the colonies who 
share his convictions, to focus their fight on 
the maintenance and safeguards for existing 
and future rights allowed by England, after 
the colonists were defeated in the first battle 
of the Revolution?
I, for one, have deep convictions against 
nuclear power. And I am going to stand up 
and fight for those convictions, regardless of 
who has the money, the influence, or the 
better odds.
To Mr. Kapner and those who share his 
convictions: nuclear power, just like 
anything else that is undesireable, is here to 
stay only if we sit back and let it stay.
David I. Walker
Willard (?)
To the Editor
Letters to the editor should be brief and to 
the point, so Ill be brief and to the point.
Overall, I feel the Marriott Corp. has 
greatly improved the food service system. 
However, in my past two years at CMUI am 
happy to say that I have never had any of the 
experiences which follow:
On Sunday evening, Sept. 7 a rat ran 
across the sidewalk in front of me into the 
bushes next to Salads Plus.
At 10:00 PM on Tuesday, Sept. 30 a rat ran 
along the sidewalk next to me as I walked 
through Skibo parking lot.
At 9:30 AM on Thursday, Oct. 9, a rat ran 
into the marigolds next to me as I entered 
Skibos lower level door.
Id like to think they were all the same rat; 
then maybe we could name it. Something 
tells me Im mistaken.
Maureen Brennan
Punkdom must live!
Editor
I feel that I must complain about the letter 
by Nick Flynn (A Punk who never wants to 
go to Portland) that appeared in the October 
7 Tartan. In this letter Mr. Flynn complains 
about what he feels is the irrelevancy of Bob 
Brenners review of the Punk scene in 
Portland. What Mr. Flynn does not 
understand is the need of the average punk 
to be aware of other Punk areas besides good 
old Pittsburgh. The complete punk or 
Renaissance punk should keep abreast of 
the Punk scene not only in the Punk Meccas 
such as New York and London but also the 
out of the way Punk places like 
Minneapolis, Chelsea, Boston or even 
Portland. I mean, how else can the art of 
Punk rock grow and progress without 
constant improvement of the state of the art
Punkdom? Certainly, articles about the 
number of bananas an African Beetle eats 
are important, but so are those which detail 
the nuances of an up-and-coming art form. 
Besides, whats wrong with Portland? 
Gabba-Gabba-Hey.
Lance Smith
(A part time punk who almost went to 
school in Portland yEditor:
Who is Nick Flynn, and what is he 
confused about? Bob Brenners article on 
Portland Punk is certainly more relevant at 
CMU than it would be in Oregon who in 
Portland cares? As I recall, DEVO cancel led 
their 79 Portland show when nobody 
bought tickets. Editors of The Tartan, feel 
free in your articles to indulge native CMU 
students to as many Brazilian bananas and 
as much African Beetle sex as they can take! 
Any Oregonians out there are invited to join 
me at the Stanley Theatre in November 
when Frank Zappa comes to town.
Andy Nousen (a CMU freshman who
doesnt want any Punks in Portland
Youre just saying that 
Editor
I want to offer my hearty congratulations 
to the entire Tartan staff. From first page to 
last, and particularly with regard to 
editorials and political columns, I consider 
this years Tartan to be the best Ive seen in 
my six years at CMU.
__ Jim Hoburg
Thanks Professor Hoburg,
TVe really appreciate the compliment.
You can please some. . .
Editor
As any upperclassman knows, The 
Tartan has traditionally the one place where 
a student could speak his or her mind freely 
on campus. Because of the diversity of such 
opinions, the Letters section of the paper 
was the most widely read section. Tartan 
policy was to print any letter received, unless 
it was in bad taste, and edit letters only for 
grammatical (and occasionally spatial) 
purposes. Although the letters printed were 
sometimes of the silly variety to provide 
comic relief (like the famous CIT-H&SS 
debates), many of the letters addressed fully 
what was oifc&f%mind$ of the student body. 
It is doubtful that the administration would 
have made the drastic changes to Food 
Service had it not been for the letters students 
wrote to The Tartan.
I guess you can appreciate how upset I 
was when I picked up last weeks The 
Tartan and noticed the change in letter 
policy. By telling anyone who writes in that 
their letters must be short or else they will be 
edited, you are in essence condoning the very 
same censorship that you claim to oppose in 
GSIA. If this paper cannot provide a forum 
which accurately represents student views, 
then there is no reason for its existence.
Aaron Tanzer
The Tartan is responsible for all material 
that is printed in the paper including 
letters. For this reason we must resen* the 
right to edit or withhold all material that is 
libelous or im>olves the paper in breaking 
the law. With regard to conciseness, The 
Tartan has a limited amount of space for 
tetters. If letters become overly long without 
making a particular point, there is less space 
for the views of other students. In order to 
insure the presentation of a wide range of 
views The Tartan must resen>e the right to 
edit letters that are not concise and to the 
point.
Letter Policy
Letters to the editor should be short 
and to the point. If they are not, they 
will be edited. All letters to the editor 
should be submitted by Friday at noon 
if thty are to be included in the follow
ing weeks issue of The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 14, 1980
Art & Design departments evaluated by NASA
photo by Chuck Chidekel
JOSEPH BALLAY
by Jennifer Hutton
The Art and Design Departments of the 
College of Fine Arts were subjected to a 
re-accredidation review by the National 
Association of Schools of Art (NASA) last 
Wednesday and Thursday. NASA is an 
accrediting agency whose control over 
schools of higher education is analogous to 
the American Medical Associations rela
tionship with medical doctors; both agen
cies have been designated by the federal 
government as the accrediting organizations 
for their individual professions.
NASA evaluates its member schools every 
five to ten years and this time the reviewing 
team consisted of Dr. Robert Even, chair
man of the Art Department at Northern Illi
nois University, and Professor Urban
Couch, former Art Department Head at 
West Virginia Univeristy. They came Not 
so much to determine whether we meet the 
minimum standards, says Joseph Ballay, 
head of CFAs Design Department, but to 
determine whether your intentions live up 
to your external perspectives. Even and 
Couch spent two days meeting with stu
dents, faculty, and administrators of the Art 
and Design Departments.
Although the NASA team only spent a 
short amount of time at CMU, preparation 
for NASAs evaluation began much earlier,, 
Ballay, Orville Winsand, head of the Art 
Department, and assorted faculty from both 
departments spent the majority of this past 
summer preparing a 300 page Self-Study 
Report which NASA requires for reHas CMU improved?
1916 report recommended improvements
Editors note: In 1976 CMU was 
evaluated by the Commission on Higher 
Education of the Middle States Association. 
The Commissions report pointed out areas 
where change or improi>ement may have 
been warrented. This article examines the 
highlights of that report and what changes 
have been made to date as a result. The 
Commission should evaluate CMU again 
in 1986.
by Debbie Nir
About every' ten years a team of officials 
representing the Commission on Higher 
Education of the Middle States Association 
visits CMU to evaluate the universitys 
facilities, educational goals, and how the 
educational process is carried out. The last 
commission report praised CMU, but also 
cited a need for improvement. There have
been many changes in CMUs educational 
system since the report was released.
In 1976 the focus of the teams report was 
the School of Urban and Public Affairs 
(SUPA) since the school had never been 
officially evaluated.
One major problem was cited in 
oiganization. There is a general insecurity 
throughout SUPA based on its fear of being 
absorbed by GSIA, the report said. This 
problem has started to resolve itself by larger 
enrollments and larger faculty, and when 
CMU President Richard Cyert also 
promised, SUPA would remain an 
independent college.
The team of officials added that the 
financial structure of SUPA was sufficient 
for operation at its current level, and the 
university should be ready to assist students 
of SUPA. In 1980. Otto Davis, Dean of
SUPA, says they have been proved wrong. 
SUPA has never had to call for university 
assistance, stated Davis. He added that he 
thought the reason the team reacted as it did 
was because CMU relied more heavily on 
research activity to support the school than 
continued on page 5
accredidation. This comprehensive docu
ment includes examples of students work, 
faculty resumes, and the objectives of both 
departments. Winsand commented about 
compiling the report, It is a good expe
rience because it draws the faculty of the two 
departments together.
Last on Even and Couchs agenda was an 
exit interview which was attended by CFA 
Dean Akram Midani, Ballay, and Winsand. 
At this meeting the NASA team let their 
unofficial opinion be known. Winsand 
reports, They were greatly impressed by the 
extremely high quality of both the faculty 
and the students work. Even and Couch 
also made several recommendations which 
include a comprehensive review of the Illus
tration and Art History programs and an 
increase in space for the printmaking pro
gram. During the course of the Self-Study 
Report, the departments realized the need 
for these improvements and have already 
begun to follow them through.
Although Even and Couch were highly 
complimentary of the programs, they are 
only able to make a recommendation for 
re-accredidation to a NASA committee. 
This committee will not determine the sta
tus of the two departments until April, but 
neither Ballay nor Winsand expressed any 
concern.
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center Inc. offers students, 
graduate students, faculty and all university staff and their child
ren, the opportunity for evaluation for insight-oriented psychother
apy at $25.00 per evaluation session. Subsequent therapy, if 
appropriate, is offered on a sliding fee scale.
FOR APPOINTMENT CALL:
Mrs. Brown, 661-2300 
Medical Center East Building 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
PART OF HOMECOMING'S STUDENT CAPERS 
FRISBEES, BALLOONS. FUN, GAMES
* \
AB lectures SPONSORS
friday, OCT 17
1 pm - 6 pm
ON THE CUT
roller skating roller skating roller skating

---------------------------------------------------

October 14, 1980The TartanPage 5
Housing crunch at CMU 
little relief foreseen
continued from page 1
have been obtained to accomodate people as
necessary.
The housing crunch has become a prob
lem of such magnitude that studies have 
already been completed analyzing the effects 
on students who lived in temporary units, or 
were crowded into small spaces.
Not only have the initial findings pro
duced evidence of irritation and bickering, 
but some students have not done as well 
academically as they might have under 
more normal circumstances.
Ed Spencer, a housing official at the Uni
versity of Delaware, recently concluded an 
examination of students who lived in triples
of temporary housing such as lounges.
There seemed to be no significant differ
ence bewteen the grade point averages of 
those in temporary units and the students in 
regular situations. However, the averages of 
the ones in converted spaces go up by a 
greater percent over the years after they leave 
that situation, suggesting that they would 
have done better if they had been in normal 
rooms, Spencer says.
He adds that those living in triples or 
other temporary spaces wind up going 
home more frequently on weekends, dont 
get along with their roommates, and 
become very irritated with the university 
administration.
continued on page 6
Improvements recommended by Middle States commission
continued from page 4
the schools the team members were from. 
Research activity has grown, and there has 
been an increase in funds along with it. 
As far as SUPAs curriculum goes, in 1976 
the team felt it contained too much 
quantitative analysis and there was a clear 
need of executive leadership.
In 1980 this problem remains to be solved, 
mostly because the administration and 
faculty of SUPA do not see it as a problem. 
According to Davis, SUPA by design 
believes you have to project to the future, to 
the skills important to the future and not 
train for now. The world is going to become 
more quantitative and analytical so we must
pick out the skills which are becoming more 
important.
Two problems the team brought up 
which have not been corrected concern 
faculty. First, the team felt that the relative 
youth of the faculty was a problem. They 
felt this could be resolved by hiring more 
senior faculty members. The reason why
Senate requests Architecture statement
Student Senate approved a resolution last 
week calling for the Department of Architec
ture to issue a statement regarding a defi
nite plan for educating students....in areas 
formerly referred to as Tech-3.
Tech-3 has been required of all senior 
architects in order to graduate and included 
such areas as structural steel design, plan
ning and management, fire and panic and
plumbing and electrical systems. No faculty 
member was hired to teach the course for 
this semester. The Senate requested the state
ment be issued to students prior to 
November 7,1980.
In other business, the Senate filled two 
seats. The new senators are Bob Holste, a 
sophmore Chem E and Bruce Eisenberg, a 
Freshman architect.
An Election Board was established for the 
purpose of running the Student Govern
ment Elections. Other constitutional revi
sions were brought up and will be discussed 
at tonights meeting.
Finally, the Senate allocated $375 to the 
GSO to cover the costs for advertising and a 
newsletter.
this has not been corrected is because SUPA 
feels the young faculty is advantageous to 
the schools educational process. According 
to Davis, Harvard University hires young 
faculty but then fires them, and hires them 
later on as full professors. We hire young 
faculty and watch them develop into 
outstanding faculty. Despite this, SUPA 
has since hired its first tenure professor in 
Bob Strauss.
Concerning faculty, the team also 
recommended that SUPA expand its part 
time faculty staff. Part-time faculty would 
improve programs by calling on people 
whose expertise and experience 
complement that of the regular 
faculty,"stated the team members. When 
Davis heard this he chuckled because within 
the four years of the report SUPA has been
Showdown Semester: 
Professor
By Martin Russ
An entertaining journal that also . 
serves as a manual for writing teachers 
and their students; and a first-hand 
look at the politics of academia.
Ex-English professor Martin Russ 
decides to tell it all. Despite his 
longtime popularity with his students 
at Carnegie-Mel Ion University and an 
outstanding publication record, russ 
was abruptly fired in the fall of *78. 
Showdown Semester is about Russ's 
search lo find out'why he was fired and 
the treacherous, often hilarious facts 
this search reveals.
Showdown Semester is addressed to a 
friend about to teach her first writing 
course and. as such, is a serious 
instruction manual for writing 
teachers. But students will find it 
useful as well. Russ provides hundreds 
of practical tips for writers in almost 
any genre. His genuine and sensitive 
concern for the students comes through 
on every page Moving and useful. 
Showdown Semester is an entertaining 
instruction manual for anyone inter
ested in the an and craft of writing.
$9 9* cloth
Advice from A Writing
c/tt/
Whatever look is your look...
Ybull look better with a 
GreatX precision haircut !
Whatever look is you - you'll look better with a 
Great "X" Precision haircut. Great X's method 
of precision cutting means we cut -and shape 
your hair from the "inside out" so It looks 
better longer. Great X also specializes in perms, 
coloring, frosting and conditioning all at reason
able prices. Come into Great "X" today and 
see how much better you'll look tomorrow.A
IXfteJBTIMfi
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Blow)II00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Frl. 10-9
Sat. 9-b'
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
2/Atwood Street 
Aero the street frow 
Oakland Post Office 
*7-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appointment

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 14, 1980
1976 report recommended improvements
continued from page 5
trying to reduce its part-time faculty. Parttime faculty teach a class and tend not to get
involved with the school. I feel students get a
better education with full time faculty and
we have been trying to increase the full time
faculty.
The final comment about SUPA made by 
the team was In order to realize its goal of 
being a top ranked program, SUPA must 
make major efforts to expand the size of its 
academic pool. This problem seems to be 
solved because the student body has nearly 
doubled in two years. This year there are 40 
second year students and 72 first year 
students.
Another main concern of the 1976 report 
was the school of Humanities and Social 
Sciences. According to the team, a liberal 
arts college should provide a staging 
ground for students .where their goal 
orientation is unclear or slips. They go on 
to say, While accurate statistics are 
unavailable, the team had the impression 
that CMUs attrition rate is high, and one of 
the major sources of attrition is that very few 
of the professional colleges allow for any 
student indecision.
Since 1976 a major development in H&SS
has been the development of the Core 
Curriculum, which requires the student to 
take courses representing each department 
of the school. Dean Betty Jane Lloyd stated, 
The strong point of the Core Curricululm 
is that it gives students a variety of areas to 
choose from.
Another criticism of H&SS by the team 
was that humanities majors were being 
deprived of fine arts classes. According to 
Dean Lloyd this has been improved because 
the College of Fine Arts has opened up more 
of its courses to non-majors. To 
compliment that, H&SS has recently begun 
adding such Fine Arts courses as acting and 
dance.
In general the team commented about 
H&SS, The university should pay 
increased attention to the needs of liberal 
arts students who are anticipated in greater 
numbers. Dean Lloyd responded, 
Perhaps its just a coincidence, but in 1976 
the Academic Advisory Center was formed, 
and we are trying to increase visibility of the 
seniors in H&SS by forming a resume book 
for possible employers.
The team also took a look at the school of 
Administration and Management Science.
Their main concern was that too many 
courses were being taught by teaching 
assistants. Mary Ann ONan, Coordinator
of AMS, responded, I think were doing 
better, teaching more students. The college 
was reorganized in 77-78 and there is a 
greater committment made to improving 
the quality of the AMS program.
The report by the Commission on Higher 
Education of the Middle States Association 
contains many other facts and opinions 
about the university. Although they dont 
mention either the Mellon College of 
Science or Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, they say of the College of Fine 
Arts, It is a pleasure to walk through the 
corridors...to realize the important civilizing 
and cultural impact of the entire campus
photo by Chuck Oiidekel 
Future dorm furniture on display in the Moreivood 
Piano room.
Parents Day set for October 25
This years Freshman Parents Day is sche
duled for Saturday, October 25, beginning at 
9:00AM. The office of Student affairs spon
sors the event annually to allow parents an 
opportunity to get acquainted with 
Camegie-Mellon and to meet some of the 
staff and faculty that deal with their sons 
and daughters throughout the academic
URGENTLY NEEDED!!!
WELL PAY THE HIGHEST PRICES
WELL PAY YOU ON-THE-SPOT CASH FOR YOUR HIGH SCHOOL OR COLLEGE CLASS RINGS
RAYING UNPRECEDENTED RRICES
FORGOLD & SILVER
GOLD
class rings  wedding bands 
 dental gold  charm brace
lets  chains  watches  
rings  medals  tie bars * 
bracelets  broaches  
lockets  pendants  ear
rings  scrap gold in any 
form 10K, 14K, 18K, 22K, 24K
SILVER COINS
half dollars  quarters  
dimes 1964 and before  
Silver Dollars 1935 and 
before  Kennedy half 
dollars 1965 thru 1970  
Wartime nickels 1942-1945  
Canadian silver 1966 and 
before
STERLING SILVER
flatware  trays  tea sets  
ingots  Franklin Mint items
 bowls  serving pieces  
knives  forks  spoons  
candelabra  candy dishes
 anything marked sterling 
or 925
 DIAMONDS: All sizes wanted, high prices paid * POCKET WATCHES: In any
condition, need not be gold or silver.  WANTED: Coin collections, rare coins, proof sets
and estatesNOW FOR THE NEXT 4 DAYS
WEDNESDAY >:00 AM-7:00 RM FRIDAY 9:00 AM-7:00 RM
THURSDAY 9:00 AM-7:00 RM 
SATURDAY 9:00 AM-7:00 RMFREE APPRAISALS byBoH aorCyMU, li kyoBMaoa
Don't Forget. .  Bring your Class Kings 
TWO CONVENIENT LOCATIONS TO SERVE YOU
OAKLAND  CROSSGATE INNFork Avenue at McKm Race in th Heart of Oakland Free Parking at Roar of Hotal
WEDNESDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 9 AM to 7 PM
PHONE 683-6000
DOWNTOWN  PITTSBURGH 
GOLD A SILVER EXCHANGE44 Wood Street  (Permanent Location)
HOURS 9-00-5:00 MONDAY SAT CLOSED SUNDAY
PHONE 355-0830
Permanent Locations in Pittsburgh Area
PITTSBURGHCOU & SILVER EXCHANCE
year.
In addition to meetings with Deans and 
department heads, the parents may attend 
an address by President Cyert, and one of 
four presentations showcasing areas of 
research or study in which the University is 
taking a leadership role. The presentations 
this year are focusing on Robotics, Urban 
Transportation, Theater, and Psychology.
The day will close with a reception and 
buffet dinner beginning at 4:00PM, fol
lowed by a concert in the Skibo Ballroom 
featuring the Symphonic Wind Ensemble of 
Camegie-Mellon at 8:00PM. If you have any 
questions regarding the day, you may con
tact John Campbell at extension 2995 or call 
i the Office of Student Affairs.
Little housing 
relief anticipated
continued from page 5
He points to a recent study done by a 
sociologist demonstrating a shift coalition 
theory. According to that hypothesis, when 
three people are stuffed into a crowded situa
tion, an alliance of two roommates against 
the other occurs. Research suggests the phe
nomenon laps over to other social settings.
Despite a lack of space, many college 
administrators are unwilling to construct 
more housing due to the expected dropoff in 
enrollment. CMU has no present plan to 
build a new dorm. The idea has come up 
from time to time, said Gerald Dalton, 
Director of Housing, but it has been set 
aside. Next year, though, the lease for the 
Shirley Apartments will run out and 41 spa
ces will be lost.
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
Gay and under 21?
YOU SHOULD GET A COPY OF THEGAT YOUTH SPECIAL ISSUE
Of the October 1980Hut
Pittsburgh's only gey lournal featuring 
stories, interview*, a special resources 
listing, and photos for the gay or lesbian 
under 21
NOW ON SALE A T OVER 
ISO NEWS STANDS OP 
CALL 361-8704

---------------------------------------------------

October 14, 1980The TartanPage 7
Congress outlines $48 billion Student aid program
continued from page 1 
grants.
Eliminates the present cumulative limit 
of $4,000 and the four-year limit on eligibil
ity for grants.
Raises maximum award from $1,500 to 
$2,000.
Eliminates the requirement that supple
mental grants be matched by other forms of 
student aid.
Specifies that colleges wili not have their 
allocations reduced if they are required by 
state law to provide scholarship from their 
own funds. v
Guaranteed Student Loans 
Raises interest rate from 7% to 9% for new 
borrowers.
Requires that the interest rale drop to 8% 
if the interest paid on U.S. Treasury bills 
falls below 9%.
Requires new borrowers to begin repay
ment six months after leaving college. 
Loans to Parents 
Establishes a new program of guaranteed 
loans for parents of dependent students. 
Allows parents to borrow up to$3,000per 
year for each child in college, up to a total of  
$15,000.
National Direct Student Loans
Raises interest rates from 3 to 4 percent for 
new borrowers.
Increases to $6,000 the cumulative limit 
on loans to students who have completed 
two years of college.
Increases to $3,000 the annual limit on 
loans to other undergraduates.
Requires students to begin repaying their 
direct loan six months after leaving college 
instead of 3 months.
Authorizes an alternative financing 
mechanism to direct federal appropriations, 
by allowing the Secretary of Education to
borrow from the Federal Financing Bank to 
raise capital for direct student loans.
If at least $1 billion is received through 
borrowing, loan repayments will be 
returned to the government instead of being 
retained on campuses to make new loans.
General Provisions 
Policy goal that 75% of a students educa
tion costs should be met by a combination of 
family and federal grant assistance.
Provides a smaller allowance for room 
and board costs in calculating financial 
need for students who live with parents.
THIS IS > GOULD
An Electrical Electronics Company
As one of America's largest and most innovative corporations. 
Gould presents a world of career opportunity for engineers and 
science graduates. Few companies can rival our diversity and 
company-wide commitment to creative innovations. To give you a 
picture of the broad spectrum of Gould careers, we present aviewof 
out major business groups and a chart showing opportunities 
throughout our corporation.
THIS IS OPPORTUNITY
ELECTRONICS
We are building on our strong 
market share to boldly position 
ourselves as product innovators in 
electronics... our fastest growing 
field. Were already attheforefront 
of industry leadership in such 
areas as programmable con
trollers. logic analyzers and ultrathin electrolytic copper foil. We are strongly committed to R & D-in 
instrumentation, printed circuit materials and improved products. Gould 
is also recognized as a leader in such national defense areas as anti
submarine warfare sensors and weapons, trainers and flight simulators.
THIS IS OPPORTUNITY
ELECTRICAL
Throughout our Electrical 
Group the focus is on 
product development to 
meet the demands of the 
increasing dependence on 
electricity in the world 
economy. T echnical innova
tions and leadership are 
again the keys. You find 
innovation at work in our 
energy saving E-plus,Mlineof 
electrical motors that are 
20% more efficient than conventional motors...in circuit breakers 
and combination motor starters that are bringing new life to an old 
industry. We are making investments now ..in both capital and 
career opportunities...to create and improve products for the 
electrical power distribution channel.
THIS IS OPPORTUNITY
BATTERY
Behind the big success 
stories of our Battery 
Group is a continuing 
record of creativity. 
The breakthroughs 
have been revolution
ary. Gould introduced 
the first completely 
sealed maintenance 
free battery... now a 
cornerstone of the 
automotive market. 
Gould developed the 
zinc-air battery - now 
finding many uses in 
miniaturized circuitry. And our developmental batteries for 
electrical vehicles are bringing the experimental vehicle closer to 
reality.
a***
THIS IS OPPORTUNITY
INDUSTRIAL
The strength of this group lies in its 
technical leadership in the automotive 
and fluid power markets. Last year 
alone, we pioneered products that 
included new valve and bearing lines.
Our prominence in metallurgical
technology and sophisticated metal manufacturing technology hasled 
to many products and process breakthroughs. In fluid power we ted the 
industry in pneumatic and hydraulic actuators, valves and related 
systems. This group has launched a major facility expansion program to 
meet the exciting challenges of the Ws.
THIS IS OPPORTUNITY
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Our commitment to R & D is 
lasting and deep. Gould 
researchers develop new 
products at each of the27 division 
development centers and at four 
corporate R & D laboratories. The 
emphasis of the research is on 
integrating technological breakthroughs into new and improved 
product and process applications. Examples of the work now in 
progress include the nicket-zinc battery for the alt electric car. and a 
rubber recycling process developed by Gould that is now being 
commercialized. Both are groundbreaking projects, both are beyond 
the scope of most companies. Yet they are typical of the ambitious work 
that the Gould R & D Group undertakes
> GOULD IS
OPPORTUNITY
* m m  *
Now that youve had a look at our major operating groups, take a 
look at the chart below to see the many career opportunities that 
each group offers. Throughout the groups you'll find our 
Development Program that helps you find and develop the career 
that best suits your talents and interests.
Mechanical Engineering | 
MEET GOULD
On campus interviews will be held on Oct. 20th & 22nd.
Arrange your interviews by contacting your placement office. If you 
cannot meet with us on campus send us a tetter and/or resume 
outlining your academic background and your career interests to: 
Manager, Technical Development Program, Dept. 1250-0, GouM Inc., 10 Gould Center, Rolling Meadows. IL 60006 An Equal 
Opportunity Employer M/F/H.
> GOULD
An Electrical I Electronics Company

---------------------------------------------------

Wmi
 y;:' 
' %
wwM
CMU Homecoming - Memorable Moments
October 17-18-19,1980
" wWio a bat/at Hoiwarwg
FRIDAY OCT. 17
12:30  4:30 PM Student
Capers on the Cut
6:30 PM
SATURDAY OCT. 18
Torchlight Parade,9.nn PM 
Bonfire and Pep Rally.
Starts at Morewood 
Gardens and finishes 
at the I.M. Field 
10:00 PM Spectacular fireworks
display at the I.M.
Field
1:30 PM Parade of Classes,
Floats and Antique 
Cars on the Cut 
Homecoming Football 
GameCMU vs. Case 
Western Reserve 
Half-time--Kiltie Band 
show and Mr. and 
Miss Varsity will be 
crowned
Fireworks paid by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Home  com  ing (hom'kum'ing) n. 1 
U.S. In colleges, universities, etc., an 
annual celebration for visiting alumni
the Readers Digest Great Encylopedic Dictionary

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanOctober 14, 1980
A view from Jhe leftAmericans:
by Steve Rayshich
Since America seems bent on crowning 
Ronald Reagan and George Bush figure
head kings of the corporate world I find I 
must laugh (to avoid crying) at the parody 
we seem to make of our lives: we may elect a 
Hollywood cowboy and his CIA chum to 
run our country! Some people call it the 
worst elecdon in years (no real choice), but 
isnt this what America wantsHollywood 
to sell us our fantasies, the CIA to protect 
our mortgaged suburban homes from Com
munists, Darwinists, and God-knows-what 
kind of rabble? Television controls our 
disco-fied culture; now it controls our dogmade politics. For the first time in history 
man must ask himself: does art imitate life 
or are we all merely bit players in a nation
wide tragedy called Bedtime for Bonzo? If 
your lifelong dream really is to lay ALL of 
Charlies Angels then lemme tell you, sonny, 
weve sold out.
Take a look around you (if you can). Here 
we are at Camegie-Mellon seeking, not edu
cation but, the $30,000 starting salary, thealmighty job, our computer assigned cogplace in the machinery of modem America. 
How will you contribute to society? Four 
years of engineering or science to work for 
the Pentagon? Four years of writing or art to 
work for TV? Camegie-Mellon (the Profes
sionals Choice) is often little more than a 
job training ground, job apprenticeship for 
$8000 a year. We call ourselves Engineers, 
Writers, Dramats, but rarely human beings. 
Title replaces person, technology surpasses 
humanity. To quote Norman Mailer, The 
best in America was being destroyed by what 
in itself seemed next best; yes, American 
heroism corrupted by American know
how. The point is that somewhere along 
the line Americans lost the courage to com
municate openly (Whose eyes have you met 
lately?) and enjoy life and ourselves. Instead,
have we sold out, or does hope survive?
we seek comfort and cheap pleasure.
With the onset of the electric toothbrush 
and remote control TV (You never have to 
leave the chair!) weve reached the point 
where striving for more comfort becomes 
ridiculous. Weve gotten lazy. And look at 
what we Buy for pleasure: Farrah Fawcett 
posters, Real People shows featuring people 
who arent necessarily real but merely less 
boring than the Joe on the street or the man 
in your head, the Spectacle of the World 
Series (What seems like a billion hours of 
the same drab sportscasters telling the same 
drab stories about what a wonderful, 
upright citizen Everyones Favorite Short
stop really is). Weve bought corporation 
America and all its phony heroessports 
stars (YOU dont have the talent), beauty 
queens (YOU dont have the looks), Millio
naires (YOU dont have the contacts-The 
Protestant Work Ethic always was a lie). 
The man in the street simply cannot keep 
up with the standards set by Hollywood or 
whoever runs this society.
Do I sound paranoid? Am I trying to say 
someone is controlling our minds? Do you 
believe in the sacredness of the American 
flag, the Protestant Work Ethic, the infalli
bility of the Pope, the brotherhood of 
fraternity life? Did you condeve of these 
ideas yourself or were they spoon-fed since 
grade school, like so much of American 
patriotism? Americans believe in every 
hallowed institution and organization 
because they no longer believe in themselvs. 
Everyone joins groups (Churches, political 
parties, clubs) because theyre afraid to try 
making it on their own.'Why? Kurt Vonnegut wrote a bit about a planet where an 
advertising agency published national aver
ages for every thing-average number of child
ren, every size of the male sex organ (all 
those ten-inchers writing in to Pent
house). In the story' Earthlings landed and
made the standards impossibly high and the 
people incredibly inferior-feeling and 
depressed. Get the metaphor?
I cant keep up with the standards (and 
neither can you), cant be a sports star, a sex 
symbol, or President of the United States 
(some heroes this year!). We can seek to 
understand ourselves better, communicate 
better, and try to free ourselves from the all 
encompassing Fear of What the Fool Next 
Door Thinks. This process is called educa
tion and it is synonomous with enlighten
ment, which my 1962 World Book 
Dicdonary defines as Having the insight 
and understanding that makes a person free 
from prejudice and ignorance. Prejudice 
and ignorance?! Do YOU hate blacks, Iran
ians, Cubans, Oiler fans, anyone in the 
world you can try to think of as lower than 
yourself? Has Camegie-Mellon enlightened 
you?
Why dont you stop and ask yourself, 
Who am I and what am I doing with my
life? If all you can give in reply is name, 
major, student ID number then maybe you 
should take a look around and start asking 
some questions. It may be scary (It is for me!) 
but dont worry about fear. Another Great 
American Hero (FDR) once said, Theres 
nothing to fear but fear itself. He was talk
ing about one of those nasty wars govern
ments always send their citizens to die for the 
sake of patriotism and Moms apple pie. 
If we ever conquer the fear Im speaking of 
well have no more need for war. The inevit
ability of war, like all the other truly revolt
ing qualities attributed to human nature, 
is not fact but merely convenience. Cest la 
vie, Human nature, Those are the 
breaks and all those million other handy 
lines of bullshit designed to make people 
live with the ugliness of their distorted lives 
CAN NOW be discarded. We CAN change 
human nature, make it more humane. Itll 
be a tough fight but just think of the victory 
party to follow.
Art Now: 'abrupt and condse
by Melody Mazzie
What is Art Now? Its a group of students 
who like to make music. Who is Art Now? 
They are a varying number whose primary 
members are David Roth, Guy Winchester, 
David Knapp, Gary Feinberg, Craig Madge, 
Hugh Watkins, and vocalists Leila and 
Peter.
The members of Art Now all double on 
various instruments-tuba, "synthesizer, 
piano, trombone, sax, flute, and bass. The 
personnel of the group and the particular 
instruments they use are subject to the occassion for which they are playing.
Art Now started last year as a two man jazz 
band and has since obtained six more 
members. David Roth came up with the
name in an effort to be abrupt and concise 
and say that when we are playing its art, 
nowat that moment in our time and as a 
product of our time. He feels that Art Now 
encompasses more than just music because 
everything in life can be approached with an 
artistic sensitivity. The group does a lot of 
improvisation based on a pre-conceived, 
organized format.
Recently Art Now performed at the open
ing of Ebon Fisher and Frank Harris work 
at the Forbes St. Gallery. They also per
formed for the Drama Departments play 
Birdbath, with Erica Nashan doing the 
vocals.
Last Thursday afternoon David Knapp 
and Guy Winchester performed an elevator 
continued on page 11
Just Published!
Jamie Wyeth
Jamie Wyeth
Jamie Wyeth reflects 
flawless and unequivocal 
perception in this beautifully executed study of persons, 
places and things. Nureyev's ebony eyes, John F. 
Kennedys determination, Warhol's studied patience, 
are only a hint of what 
Wyeths portraits of people reveal  excellence.
His sections on animals 
and objects are equally 
remarkable. Farm animals 
that were childhood pets  
sheep, dogs, and pigs. A 
rippling flag on a weathered porch, slightly parted 
curtains, crudely crafted steps 
leading up a tree trunk, a 
bag of feed. These are commonplace but the artist 
translates them into important attai hments to 
nameless owners.
4 stunning collection that 
will interest photographers, 
artists, admirers of other 
Wyeths, and gallery patrons, 
as well as those who 
frequently pause to enjoy 
innovative treatment of 
ordinary things.
144 pp. II x ffh oblong 
122 (olor illustrations
Unfinished Tales
J.R.R. Tolkien 
Edited by Christoher Tolkien
Unfinished Tales is for those who have not yet sufficiently explored 
Middle-earth  its languages, its 
legends, its politics, and its kings.
Here are narratives ranging in time from the Elder Days of Middle-earth to 
the end of the War of the Rings and comprising such various elements as 
Gandalfs lively account of how it was 
that he came to send the Dwarves to the celebrated party at Bag-End. The book 
contains the only story that survived 
from the long ages of Numenor before 
its downfall and all that is known of 
such matters as the Five Wizards, the 
Palantiri, and the lengend of Amroth.The collection has been edited by 
Christopher Tolkien, who explains in 
his introduction the variety of treatments 
these writings have demanded and has provided a commentary' on each of the 
tales. He has redrawn the map 
accompanying The Lord of the Rings on a larger scale and with the addition 
of new features and names and has 
reproduced the only map of Numenor 
J.R.R. Tolkien ever made.CHRISTOPHER TOLKIEN has, like 
his father, taught at Oxford and now 
devotes himself full time to editing the 
papers of J.R.R. Tolkien.
CMU Bookstore
EXPERIENCETHE WORLD AS YOUR CAMPUS
Sail around the world from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, February 5, 
1981 to South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. 
Apply now.
Earn a full semester of credit. Sponsored by the University of 
Pittsburgh. Offered as an outreach program by the Institute for 
Shipboard Education/University Center for International 
Studies. Participation open to qualified students from all accred
ited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students 
without regard to color, race or creed.
More than 60 university courses - with'In port and voyage related emphasis Faculty from the University of Pittsburgh and other leading institutions. Visiting area experts.
For free color brochure, call or write Semester at Sea U-C 1 S . Forbes Quadrarigle. University of Pittsburgh. PA 15260 Telephone toU free (800) 8S4-019B (except California); (412) 624 6021 (Pittsburgh); (714) 881-6770 (California). TheS S Universe is fuily air-conditioned. 18,000 tons, registered In Liberia and built in America

---------------------------------------------------

I was in Mexico doing research for my masters degree in sociology
I just felt this strong, 
emotional feeling about - nursing.
CMUs 
Artful Dodge
by Kathy Krummert
Dickens had the right idea when he bes
towed his infamous artful Dodger with 
peed, agility, cunning, and the blessing of 
Fate. The modem day artful Dodger of 
Forbes and Morewood Avenues, he who fre
quents the streets and sidewalks of the CMU 
campus instead of the murky alleys of 19th 
century London, must possess the same gifts 
to survive the ravages of vehicular traffic that 
daily threaten his existence.
What leads one to put ones survival skills 
to the test day after day? Are they not better 
left dormant, ready for use in a real emer
gency, like crossing Fifth at rush hour? 
^Unfortunately, Morewood Gardens and the 
parking lot, the frats, and Mudge not to 
mention a large number of off-campus 
dwellings,are situated on the other side of 
Forbes. That leaves no alternative (unless 
someone generously lowers a drawbridge 
from thin air) but to dash across bravely, 
strengthening those skills that Dickens 
would have been proud to write about.
Any number of situations might lead to 
the realization that more than luck is needed 
to survive Forbes Avenue; a few might be 
familiar:
The unconscious follow-the-crowd 
syndrome is very popular after a hard day of 
classes. Eyes and thoughts glazed over, the 
unaware pedestrian ventures forth from the 
curb. If he is able to think about anything at 
all at this time of day, it is probably to the 
effect of: Hell, they cant hit 20 of us at one 
time. Surprise. They try.
Or perhaps you are a victim of the-8:30
a.m. trance; that oblivion that follows an 
early waking after a long night and that 
ften lasts long past 8:30, For some, it lasts 
past noon, into evening, prolonging the 
hazard to their health.
Or could it be the Oh my God, Im late 
again habit, which consumes its victim, 
making him blind to all even growling 
truck drivers and mad motorcyclists.
Or maybe simple daring has taken hold of 
your life and the man vs. machine desire is 
too powerful to be ignored. The urges to 
outrun the buses that pass you at stops and 
pass the cars that blow their horns in your 
far are overwhelming and you dash across 
the avenue feeling bold and adventurous. 
Maybe you enjoy dueling with fickle traffic 
lights in a treacherous game of I-dare-you.
For whatever reasons, artful Dodging is 
still a matter of survival of the fittest. 
Dickens Dodger was an expert in his field. 
His CMU counterpart has made his profes
sional choice too.
FAST INSTANT
CASH
CRAZY DAVE IS BUYING CLASS 
RINGSPAYING UP TO $125.00 
115 MEYRAN.AVE. OAKLAND. 687-4320
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
October 14, 1980The TartanPage 11Art Now: as a product of our time
continued from page 10 
happening in the Fine Arts elevator to cele
brate David Roths painting of the elevators 
interior. The event entailed the use of music 
recorded on two tape recorders which con
tinually used the refrain of Art Now.
Art Nows next project is a play by the 
Metropolitan Theatre Company entitled 
Poe. The play deals with the last three 
days in the life of Edgar Allen Poe and is a 
montage of his poems and stories as well as 
an explanation of how he died. Poe was 
written by CMU graduate Michael Cook, 
who incidentally is a descendant of Poe. It 
opens Oct. 31 and will run for a month. 
David Knapp is writing the music for the 
play with input from both Art Now and the 
Metro Company.
Another project in store for Art Now is a 
convocation on November 6 at 12:30 in the 
Alumni Concert Hall of Fine Arts. Per
formed will be the original work War Cries 
of the Ancient Persian Tribesmen - a piece 
that the group assembled as their first pro
ject involving eight people and 8 different 
viewpoints. As a compositional element, the 
piece is based on the number 7. The main 
theme is a 7 note row of tones. According to 
Roth, We each picked our favorite note and 
the piano plays them all. There are like
David Roth, Guy Winchester, and David Knapp of Art Now
wise 7 vignettes (short music passages), each 
written by a different member.
The groups main purpose is to be sensi
tive to our needs as creative people expe
riencing the phenomenon of spontaneity. 
Said Roth, This is a beginning for us as 
maturing artists taking the responsibility for
our development into our own hands. We 
control our space.
Art Now is anxious to have as many 
opportunities to play as are made available 
to them. Anyone interested in employing 
their services may contact any of the 
members to discuss their needs.
With an undergraduate degree in sociology 
and close to finishing her master's degree, Debra 
Reddick has found satisfaction in a new career 
direction.
I was doing research on my masters program 
in Mexico at the time. As part of it, I became in
terested and later involved in mid-wifery. I felt this 
strong, emotional feeling about the whole thing."
Thats what got me interested in nursing. With 
my previous college experience, all I needed was 
four classes to begin.
But picking the right program was a difficult 
task.
I was really confused. I couldn't believe the 
number of nursing programs available. I really 
didnt know what they all meant.
So I started making phone calls. I had some 
definite goals and received many positive com
ments from several schools. But that first call to 
St. Margaret's was something special. I explained 
my goals and they were really straight with me. 
They (the faculty) seemed to understand.
How does the curriculum at St. Margaret's 
School of Nursing compare to working on a 
master's degree program in sociology?
Im really swamped. I really feel like a beginner; 
it's such a different way of testing and learning. I 
even felt a lack of confidence at first. But not now.
I know this is right."
Finding the right career may take different twists 
and turns. In Debra Reddick s case, it took five 
years of college and a summer in Mexico before 
she found it.
If Youre Interested In A Nursing Career Plan To 
Attend Our Open House On October 19.
On Sunday. October 19. you II have an oppor
tunity to learn about a rewarding career option 
nursing. St. Margaret Memorial Hospital located
on Freeport Road in Aspinwall, will open its doors 
from noon-3 p.m. for a tour of the facilities. You'll 
meet career counselors and members of the faculty 
who will explain the two-year diploma program, the 
financial aid available, and the professional status 
and job security you'll enjoy as a registered nurse.
So if you're a recent high school or college 
graduate, stuck in a dead-end job or interested in 
getting back into the job market, don't miss this 
open house. For more information, call 622-7075.
No, I won't be able to attend but would like 
additional information on the school.
Address
StateZip Code
Phone
I Mail to:
St. Margaret Memorial Hospital 
| School of Nursing
815 Freeport Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15215
c>
SAINT MARGARET MEMORIAL HOSPITAL
Debra Reddick, Level I Student, St. Margaret s School of Nursing.

---------------------------------------------------

 'S
IS FOR EMPLOYED.
Have your resume printed in the CIT/MCS resume book, 
enabling you to have greater exposure and job opportunits.
Open to all men and women who are sophomores, juniors, 
seniors and graduate students in CIT or MCS. Limited to the first 
fifty sophomores, and fifty juniors. All senior and graduate 
resumes will be accepted. Please be as specific and brief as 
possible when filling out the form below. Write neatly or type. 
Additional forms available at Skibo Info Desk, or call 578-4829
Mail to SWE, 1325 Science Hall, Campus Mail.
Some companies requesting the resume book: 
Westinghouse Electric 
Atlantic Richfield 
Exxon
McDonnell Douglas Corp.
U.S. Steel 
IBM 
Xerox
Ingersoll-Rand *
Dupont
SOCIETY OF WOMEN ENGINEERS RESUME FORM
NAME:PHONE NUMBER:
: ' - X.
CAMPUS ADDRESS:HOME ADDRESS:

CAREER OBJECTIVE:
EDUCATION:
?
COLLEGE (name and dates) 
DEPARTMENT:
DEGREE EXPECTED: 
CURRENT QPA:
COURSES TAKEN:
WORK EXPERIENCE:
HONORS, AWARDS, SOCIETIES, PERSONAL INTERESTS:

---------------------------------------------------

Papa John Creach opened for Rick Danko at Sunday night's Ballroom concert.
Entertainment.unner races at Soho
by Anne Lux
^ The Runner Stumbles is based on an 
Jctual trial of a priest accused of murdering 
1 nun. The play is set within the trial, with 
ie story of Father Rivard, the young priest 
who has been banished to a small, prim
arily Protestant town in Michigan, and SisHr Rita, the enthusiastic young nun who 
laches at the school.
I When the two other nuns in her convent 
hntract consumption, Sister Rita must 
| ther close the school or move into the pari h with Father Rivard and his housekeeper. 
1 Jthough this is strictly against Church law, 
she does move in, and there begins the 
Itrange relationship of Sister Rita and 
lather Rivard.
I Barnard Whitney is one of those rare 
l:tresses whose very movement and word 
siiines. Her Sister Rita radiates and lives 
effortlessly throughout the play. It is her 
performance that gives this wonderful play 
fjk dramatic and emotional impact. It is my 
ope that Soho Repertory Company will 
continue to take advantage of this remarkable actresss talents.
Artistic director James Gardner, who had 
anned to direct the show, had to take over
the role of Father Rivard when the original 
actor became ill. As such, he gives a com
mendable performance as the priest who 
struggles with his belief in a God of ven
geance, and with his feelings for Sister Rita.
At times, however, this technique needs a 
little polishing, and it is a bit too obvious 
that he was acting. Also noteworthy is 
Elaine Cailson as Mrs. Shandig, the 
housekeeper.
The Runner Stumbles is about more than 
a murder trial, nore than a small Catholic 
parish. It is about views of God and views of 
people; about inner struggle, and a special 
relationship. Above all, it is a beautiful and 
moving production that I cant recommend 
highly enough.
It is my feeling that the Soho Rep is doing 
something very important for good theater 
in Pittsburgh. Unfortunately, their finan
cial future is not as promising as their artis
tic one. If you enjoy good theater and want 
to help a deserving theater group, call 682- 
0438 to reserve a ticket to The Runner Stum
bles. The play runs Thursday and Friday 
evenings at 8 PM until October 25. Student 
tickets are $2.50.urtaincall
Swellfoots Tears
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre 
loves to the Lion Walk Performing Arts 
inter with its next production in a 
hson of plays by Leon Katz. Swellfoots 
'ears is a contemporary version of the 
assic Oedipus legend, based on 
uripides The Phoenician Women.
This is a portrayal of the Oedipus legend 
ith strong language, explicit violence and 
theatrical style that can best be described as 
no-holds-barred.
Gary Rose plays the title role of Swellfoot 
j)edipus literally means swollen foot), 
id in a recent development, Leon Katz, the 
y s author will play the role of the
ector.
Melanie Smith, the plays assistant 
ector, calls Katz a directors dream. 
iis is a rare opportunity to see a 
ly wnght take a role in a production of his
n play.
Swellfoots Tears will play at The Lions 
i alk Thursday through Sunday nights at 8 
jm. and Sunday at 2:30. Seating is limited 
id advanced reservations should be made 
calling 621-2876.
Return to the classics
Leon Katz in Swellfoots Tears
by Tim LeVan
Carlisle Floyds two-act opera,Susannah, 
opened the 1980-81 season of the Pittsburgh 
Opera this past weekend.
The tragic opera, based on the Apocrypha 
story of Susanna and the Elders, was 
presented in a forceful, mature performance 
under the stage direction of the composer.
Patricia Craig and James Morris 
(Susannah and Reverend Olin Blitch) 
portrayed their roles through fine singing 
and convincing acting. Ms. Craig showed a 
delightful spark in tying together all aspects 
of theatre.
James Hoback, as Little Bat McLean, 
gave a stunning performance, replete* with 
fine singing and superb acting. Mr. Hoback 
controlled the audiences attention nearly 
every moment he was on stage. His changes 
in mood or expressive nuance cued a similar 
change within the orchestral scoring. Much 
too often we hear the orchestra cue a change 
of mood in the singer.
All four older married couples in the 
opera played their staunch characters with 
skill, and lent a certain stolid atmosphere 
and unchangeability to the entire opera.
tylish new season opens at PBT
Leslie Weinberg
Pittsburgh Ballet Theater opened its
3-1981 season last week at Heinz Hall 
ith three elegant pieces. La Vent ana and 
Sylphide were choreographed by a well 
lown 18th century Danish choreographer 
Boumville. Boumville has created 
|er 50 ballets in his uniquely classic style, 
remaining piece in the performance 
Harp Concerto Pas de Deux, a four 
Inute spectacular.
Francesca Corkle opened the Friday night 
forma nee of La Ventana in a mirror 
ice. She dances in her boudoir while fansizing about a suitor she will meet in act 
f- It is an impressive dance as the reflection, 
irgo Scharlin, dances opposite her image.
le second act brings us to the mountain|e where the scenery is light and airy.
dancers perform a series of pas de trois 
rations. Boumvilles choreography .is 
|ht in this dance, capturing the airy mounlside spirit. Keith Martin and Francesca 
kkle compliment each other in their pas 
Bdeux variation. La Ventana is a pleasant 
|> to enter into PBTs 1980 season.
ie Harp Concerto Pas de Deux 
|rmed up a rather icy opening night 
lienee with a bit of flair. Lauren Rouse
and Miguel Campenaria stepped onto the 
stage and captivated everyone. Rouses cos
tume was delicate and graceful and her 
dancing was quiet fitting to the costume. 
Their performance together was crisp and 
clean. It captured the etherial essence of the 
harp.
Campenaria is a strong, vibrant dancer. 
Rouse is sleek and sylph-like. Together they 
. created harmony in four minutes of visually 
satisfying dancing.
The music was entrancing with the harp 
players of the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra standing out. A simple black 
backdrop was all that was necessary for scen
ery as the color in Harp Concerto Pas de 
Deux was provided by the dancers.
La Sylphide
The concluding ballet, La Sylphide, 
reflects a different style and mood of Boum
ville than that in La Ventana. La Sylphide is 
a sad and mystical story about a Scottish boy 
swept up in love by a forest nymph.
The nymph or the sylphide isexquisitelty 
danced by Francesca Corkle. James, the boy, 
and the sylphide dance together as she tells 
him that slie loves him dcsjxrately.
James is tortured by his vow to marry a 
village girl. The Sylphide becomes a recurring vision to James and he doubts her 
genuine presence. She comes when he is 
about to marry the village girl and takes him 
away to the forest. Here they are content and 
James meets the sister nymphs in the forest. 
But the old hag Madge finds a way to poison 
the beautiful sulphide. In despair, James 
takes his own life so he will be with his love 
eternally.
The dancing is fabulous in this piece. 
Campenaria and Coride perform with ami 
ing poise and fluidity in their pas de deux. 
In the scene where the sylph dies, one can see 
her fingertip delicately droop as the energy 
is drained from her body.
Guynne Asheon, PBTs ballet mistress 
plays the character role of Madge the hag. 
She created a poignant villain with her fine 
gestures.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theater did a 
remarkable job in creating a classic La Syl
phide. The company seems to be getting 
stronger as it moves into its second decade of 
performing. With a few new principals like 
Francesca Corkle and Ingrid Farley and the 
outstanding quality of Patrick Franz as artis
tic director, Pittsburgh will have many even
ings of top class entertainment.
The staging, lighting, sets, and costumes 
added great fullness to the production. Some 
rather nice forest scenes were created with 
impressive effects.
As a whole, the opera represents an 
important place in the history of truly 
American opera, and can easily be 
compared with an American opera such as 
The Ballad of Baby Doe.
The next Pittsburgh Opera production 
will be Bizets Carmen, featuring Victoria 
Vergara, Jerold Norman, Karen Hunt and 
Tom Fox. Tickets for the November 13'and 
15 performances can be obtained at the box 
office, 281-0912 or 281-1279.
liana Vered
Ilena Vered, pianist, gave a sparkling 
recital this past week, opening the Y Music 
Societys 55th Anniversary season.
Haydns Sonata in G Major opened the 
program with a presentation of Vereds 
great technical prowess, emphasized by 
dryness of tone and lack of expression.
Bachs Partita in C Minor followed with 
excessive tempi and an over-playing of 
featured themes, motives and melodic lines. 
Romanticism began creeping in during this 
work, and although welcome to a degree, it 
was handled very unevenly due to the tempi 
chosen.
The Sonata in A Minor of Mozart ended 
the first half of the program with more of 
Vereds impeccable technique, but with 
unnecessary lack of fluidity and 
characteristic style. Rather than a delicious 
collection of well-mixed and combined 
musical elements, we were presented with 
only blotches of color in need of binding 
force.
The estimable Brahms Variations on a 
Theme of Paganini, Opus 35, Books I and 
II, comprised the second half of the 
program.
Ms. Vered was stylistically at home with 
Brahms. The Variations, the apex of 
pianistic technical tour-de-forces, were 
played with amazing accuracy, musicality, 
expression and diverse character. Each of the 
28 variations contained its own individual 
subde nuance, personal spark and, to be 
sure, pianistic snare which was always 
handled with the utmost skill.
Great technical facility must always be 
used in the service of music and not be the 
master of the music. Ms. Vered showed with 
considerable artistry the great music that can 
be made with the combination of musicality 
and technical finess.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 14, 1980
Heavy metal turns Stanley Black and Blue
by Chari y Rhoades
Two Fridays ago, ai about a quarter after 
eight, I arrived at the Civic Arena to see the 
Black and Blue show performed by Black 
Sabbath and Blue Oyster Cult. The opening 
act was playing when I arrived; as it turned 
out, it was their last song. The band, Saxon, 
was on stage instead of Shakin Street, the 
originally scheduled opener. Saxon turned 
out to be a quartet of actors trying to give the 
packed Arena what they wanted: Heavymetal destructive music.
They achieved one goal, that of destruc
tion. The last song was a poor ripoff of the 
classic Townshend guitar-smashing act 
capped with an equally degrading copy of 
the famous Hendrix flaming guitar. The 
adolescents in the audience soaked it up and 
screamed to have the rock-cliche sponge 
wrung once more. Mercifully the band 
quickly exited.
It was well after nine before Black Sab
bath entered with the opening cut off the 
Paranoid album: War Pigs.
New Soloist
This tour for Black Sabbath is the first 
with Ronnie James Dios as lead vocalist. 
The familiar Ozzie Osbourn singing style 
was absent but Dios was adequate in 
performing the songs. War Pigs was an 
exception where the lack of Osbourns 
vocals was more noticeable. It was an 
intangible quality to his voice, a sort of 
craziness, that made Black Sabbath cross the 
fine line of believability.
This aura of believability-- the 
convincing legitimacy of their whole evil 
concept-- was approached in the song 
Black Sabbath. Here the plodding beat 
and insane-like vocals (nicely enhanced 
with echoes) combined with very good
special effects (smoke layers, eerie red 
backlighting and flame pots bursting on 
cue) to make the sorcerous shtick work for 
once. The song was highlighted by the 
excellent guitar-work by Tony Iommi 
during an upbeat tempo change near the 
end of the song.
Iommi was fine the whole night and 
showed his skills further on songs like 
NIB (with a great bass intro) and Sweet 
Leaf (minus the intense coughing sound 
effect).
After Black Sabbath, the band went 
into the title cut of their latest release, 
Heaven and Hell. The song was done 
very well with a likable guitar/vocal duet by 
Iommi and Dios wedged between two 
straight guitar solos, the last of which 
slowed into the familiar drumbeats of Iron 
Man.
This song was slower than studio version, 
but the plodding rhythm section contrasted 
nicely with the spastic Santana-like solos of 
Iommis.
The bands encore was announced 
through the killer guitar licks of 
Paranoid. The song was lacking in the 
vocals department, but the band finished the 
evening characteristically after a refrain of 
Heaven and Hell. The second encore was 
Children of the Grave (from Master of 
Reality) and completed the show for good 
after a tremendous explosion of fire. By this 
time it was 10:30.
Buck stands out
It took tne stage crew another hour before 
Blue Oyster Cult arrived to the strains of 
Dr. Music, from their Mirrors LP. Eric 
Bloom proceeded to lay out an acceptable 
solo with his stun guitar, but the real treat 
was the guitar performances of Donald
(Buck Dharma) Roeser.
Bucks guitar virtuosity overshadowed the 
rest of the band when solos were performed. 
BOC is the type of band that has a majority 
of guitar-oriented songs. Black Sabbath is 
much the same, but the Cult members often 
switch their instrument around: Bloom 
played guitar sporadically, concentrating 
on singing the lead and an occasional key
board stint; Alan Lanier performed mostly 
on the keyboards but often jumped out with 
a guitar strapped on. In fact, at one point all 
five members (including the drummer) 
played guitars as they rotated the soloing. 
But through all this instrumental interchan
geability, the consistency of Buck Dharma 
shone through.
This point was illustrated perfectly by the 
next song, ETI (Extra Terrestrial Intelli
gence) where Lanier, Buck, and Bloom all 
soloed, but Buck stood out as the obvious
lead in the guitar army.Message to Iran
The Buck Dharma/Eric Bloom combina
tion clicked on two other songs from the 
new BOC album. The first was Unknown 
Tongues where Bloom acted out the suici
dal tendencies by slicing his hand. The other 
was a song that tells how we (BOC) feel 
about the Ayatollah Khomeini. This 
Divine Wind, where an astonished Bloom 
cries out, If he really thinks were the devil...then lets send him to Hell! Flames 
erupted impressively on Hell!
Again on the next number, the roles of 
each band member were performed as 
expected. The song The Marshall Plan, 
was off their latest album, Cultosaurus Erectus. It came off better in concert than on the 
album; probably because this was a story
telling song that gave Bloom a chance to get
COMliC COALE3CE1CE
Where does science fiction end and reality begin? Its all in the minds eye: Be it the creative imagination used to produce Star Wars, The Black Hole, and The Empire Strikes Back, or the more scientific approach of hypothesis testing and experimentation, the distant galaxies of science fiction coalesce into reality with the advanced technology now being developed at a companycalled TRW.
It was the Defense and Space Systems Group of TRW who made possible the Viking Lander biological experiment which looked for' life on Mars and the High Energy Astronomical Observatory which looks for quasars, pulsars and black holes in deep space. Professionals at TRW-DSSG are now involved in such impressive technologies as high
energy lasers, communications systems, plus other future projects still considered science fiction.
A company called TRW will be on 
campus...
NOVEMBER 3-4
to interview graduates in scien
tific and technical disciplines.
Contact the placement office to schedule your appointment. If unable to meet with us, send your resume to:
College Relations 
Bldg. R5/B196 CMU 10/80 One Space Park Redondo Beach, CA 90278
 WW>-Opportunity Employai M/F/H
DEFENSE AND SPACE SYSTEMS GROUP ENERGY SYSTEMS GROUP
a little more theatrical. Buck got into the 
spirit of things when personifying the protagonist of the story: a kid who (predictably 
dreams of being a rock and roll star. As 
released, the song seemed contrived, but 
when actually performed, it pulled together 
and worked.
There were some old favorites perform^ 
in addition to the material from the new 
release. These included Cities on Flame 
with Rock and Roll, (from their first LP), 
Hot Rails to Hell, and of course, God 
zilla (complete with a silly mock-up of the 
monster with glowing eyes and a jointed 
mouth belching smoke).
The Godzilla extravaganza was pre 
ceded by another new song, Black Blade, 
which incorporated echoed vocals, billow 
ing smoke, spacy synthesizers and other 
taped effects.
Godzilla turned out to be quite an affa^ 
with the same old trick of drummer Albert 
Bouchards head covered with a Godzilla 
mask, twisting in the strobed light patterns 
His brother, Joe, then had a short bass sole 
(which lapsed into the Doors Roadhous< 
Blues) before Bloom rode on stage with th 
Harley motorcycle to signify the Start o 
Bom to Be Wild.
Bloom and Buck again did their guitar 
clashing trick on this number, eventual! 
ripping out Bucks strings. This turned ou 
to be the last song of the set, with the encofc< 
as (Dont Fear) The Reaper. This hit wa 
highlighted by surprisingly good vocal hai 
monies and more smoke, all enhancing 
Bucks last guitar solo of the night.
The band left the stage at about five c 
1:00 AM. I reflectd afterwards in Dohert 
over a beer; it was the long night of heav> 
metal sorcery that was promised.Readers poll
continues"
There is still time to cast your ballots 
The Tartans first annual Entertainmer 
and Personality Omnibus Opinion Poll.
Voting is being held in nine categories 
complete form with the editors Candida 
can be found in last weeks Tartan. M< 
either that form dr this shorter one to Tl 
Entertainment Editor, c/o The Tartan Bo 
17 Skibo or drop it by Room 50 Skibo.
Early returns show a surprise writein ch 
ice for best actor. Results will be printed 
our next issue? October 28.
Favorite movie------------------
Favorite T.V. show---------
Favorite Female performer
Favorite Actress---------------
Favorite Actor-------------------
Actress you would most like to see ripped 
shreds by vermin in a movie
Woman you would most like to see rippt 
to shreds by vermin in refil life
Man you would like to see publicly ridi
uled------------------------------------------------
Member of the First Family who has cau$ 
you most personal humiliation--------
Oct. 14-51 Tu.-Thurs. 7-10
Fri -Sai. 7-11 
doard Sun. le Moti 
2061 Routr 286. Plum Boro 
Family J5, Aduli $1.50, Child4

---------------------------------------------------

Bison charge nips Tartans, 16-13
Jeff Harrison breaks into
by Bob Share
The Camegie-Mellon University football 
(barns chances of participating in post
season competition were seyerely weakened 
ast Saturday as the Tartans were edged by 
he Bethany Bisons, 16-13, on a 45 yard des
peration pass from Bethanys All American 
quarterback Jeff Beer to split end Dale 
Grosso with four seconds to play. In defeatng the Tartans, who went into the game 
inked fifth nationally in the NCAA Divsion III polls, fourteenth ranked Bethany 
akes sole possession of first place in the 
^residents Athletic Conference with a 4-0 
Icord, and moves to 5-0 overall. The Tarans drop to 3-1 in the PAC, and 5-1 overall.
The game was affected by swirling twenty 
nile an hour winds that whipped through 
^i$e Field and made passing, 
hunting, and receiving tough for whichever 
earn was facing the wind. The Tartans 
ound this out on their initial possesion. 
MUs Joe Vasalani had trouble finding the 
landle of the opening kickoff, and the Tarans were forced to start from their own five, 
rhey managed a fourteen yard punt, leavIng the Bisons in fine shape at the CMU 22.
thany managed one first down and then 
-vas stopped by the Tartan defense but the 
)all was in the field goal range of Bethany
CMUBETHANY SUMMARY
CMU
Bethany 3
13
16
;th-Bill Carver 22 yd FG 
>MU-Jeff Harrison 1 yd run (kick failed) 
?th-Bill Rainy 5 yd pass from Jeff (kick 
tiled)
>MU-Gary Drakulie 35 yd pass from Rick 
frown (Denny Postufka kick)
Hh-Dale Grosso 45 yd pass from Beer 
'rver kick)
CMU Bethany
first downs 
fcushes-yards 
Ut.-Comp.-Int. 
passing yards 
Total yards v 
funts-avg. 
fumbles lost 
renal ities-yards
1116
42-17247-130
18-5-328-14-4
77193
249323
5-30.46-35.8
4-13-1
2-308-80
Doug Kirsop 
last week on his way to a 100 yard-plus day.
kicker Bill Carver, who split the uprights on 
a 22 yard field goal attempt, giving the 
Bisons a 3-0 lead.
The remainder of the first half was domi
nated by the fired up defenses of both teams. 
Sloppy play was common in the first half as 
five turnovers were committed, two of 
which put the Tartan offensive unit deep in 
Bison territory with a great opportunity to 
put points on the scoreboard. The first tur
nover was an interception by CMU line
backer Ken Murawski on Bethanys 35 yard 
line. The Bisons defense stifled the CMU 
attack, however, and Tartan kicker Denny 
Postufkas field goal was partially blocked 
and went wide. The Plaid regained posses
sion on the Bethany 35 following a Chip 
Miller interception, and again couldnt 
budge the Bison defense. Again Pos^fka. 
attempted a three pointer, this time from 47 
yards, which hit the right upright and 
carommed wide. No more scoring chances 
were to be had in the first half, which ended 
with Bethany hanging onto a 3-0 advantage.
An exchange of punts opened the second 
half, after which Bethany took possession of 
the ball on its twenty and over the next 
fifteen plays proceeded to march to the 
CMU 31 in the first sustained drive of the 
afternoon for either team. Beer fumbled the
CMU LEADERS
Passing- Brown 5 for 18, 77 yards, 3 int., 
TD.
Rushing- Harrison 23 for 134 yards, 1 TD 
Colosimo 11 for 38 yards. Brown 6 for ! 
yards. Rubai 1 for 1 yard. Sansosti 1 for - 
yards.
Receiving- Drakulie 2 fro 44 yards, 1 TD. 
Colosimo 2 for 24 yards. Leposky 1 for 9
sixteenth play of the drive, however, and 
linebacker Lee Ferketic pounced on the 
loose ball for the Tartans. The turnover 
problems continued to plague CMU as well, 
as quarterback Rick Brown threw a pass 
into the arms of Bison comerback Chris
Cherry on the third play of the Tartans 
ensuing offensive series. Bethany returned 
the favor, though, as Tartan DB Brian 
Renner picked off a pass from Beer deep in 
Plaid territory, giving CMU control at their 
own 13, as the teams switched ends for the 
fourth quarter.
Down 3-0 with fifteen minutes to play, 
the CMU offensive came to life. The Tar
tans covered the 87 yards in twelve plays, all 
on the ground. The Tartan offensive line 
began to open up huge gaps in the Bison 
defense for the backs, notably Jeff Harri
son, who picked up sixty yards on nine car
ries, and Perry Colosimo, who added 27 
yards on three attempts. Harrison burst in 
from the one for the Tartans initial score of 
the day. Postufkas extra point sailed wide to 
the left, but CMU took the lead for the first 
time, 6-3, with 9:06 remaining in the contest.
The success of the offense seemed to fire 
up the defense in Bethanys next possession. 
Led by defensive tackle Joe Csonka, the 
"Plaid Curtain defense recorded two sacks 
during the Bisons offensive series, and 
forced a Bethany punt. But the CMU offense 
failed to capitalize on another scoring 
opportunity. Harrison coughed up the ball 
on the third play of the drive, and Bethany 
took over. This time the Bisons were able to 
move downfield against the Tartan defense, 
driving 49 yards in seven plays, culminating 
in a touchdown on a five yard pass from 
Beer to back Bill Rainey. An unsuccessful 
extra point try gave the Bisons a 9-6 lead 
with 2:13 to play.
CMU started their next drive on their 20, 
and prepared to go into their two minute 
drill. Brown threw two incompletions, then
the Tartans picked up a key first down at the 
CMU 42 when the Bisons were guilty of pass 
interference. From there Brown, who had 
completed only 2 of 15 passes for 19 yards to 
that point, came through in the clutch by 
tting on three consecutive passes against 
the wind, the final reception a 35 yarder by 
tight end Gary Drakulie for a Tartan go 
ahead touchdown. Postufka booted the 
extra point to give the Tartans a 13-6 edge 
and, with only 1:27 to go, it seemed likely 
that the Plaid would come away with 
another victory.
Beer started Bethanys last chance drive 
from their 21 by hitting Grosso for fourteen 
yards and a first down at the Bison 35, but a 
Bethany penalty, an incomplete pass and 
another loss of yardage brought up fourth 
down and seventeen and the Bethany 28.
Beer connected with Grosso again on the 
crucial fourth down pass for 27 yards to the 
Tartan 45, and on the next play Beer again 
found Grosso, who had beaten Renners 
coverage, in the end zone for the winning 
score with four seconds to go. The successful 
point after gave the Bisons the 16-13 victory.
Jeff Harrison had one of his finest days in 
his college career, by gaining 134 yards on 
23 carries and a TD in a losing cause. Harri
sons eight touchdowns lead the PAC in 
scoring. Brown finished the day with five 
completions in eighteen attempts, one 
touchdown, and three interceptions. Out
standing performances for the Bisons 
include 116 yards rushing in 23 tries by Rai
ney, and Grossos eight catches for 147 yards 
and a TD. The strong wind proved to be a 
factor in the game, as Beer completed five of 
fourteen passes with three interceptions 
when throwing against the wind, and went 
nine of fourteen with one interception with 
the wind. Next week the Tartans return to 
Tech Field to take on Case Western Reserve 
in the Homecoming game. Game time is 
2:00 PM.
Iartan running back I'im Bronson (no. 32) strains for the goal line
photo by Doug Kirsop 
against a wall of Bethany) dIUj.defenders. He didnt score, but Jeff Harrison did on the next play.
1 AK 1 AIN 1 LAM>i II\ A^ 11UN 1 HIS VVLr-K:
Tues. Oct. 14 WOMENS TENNIS CMU vs. Waynesburg(H)3:30 PM
VOLLEYBALLCMU vs. Washington 8c Jefferson(A)7:00 PM
Wed. Oct. 15SOCCERCMU,vs. St. Vincent(A)3:30 PM
WOMENS TENNISCMU vs. Duquesne(A)3:30 PM
nun . Oct.
16VOLLEYBALLCMU vs. Geneva California Slate(A)6:00 PM
Fri. Oct. 17SOCCERCMU vs. Hiram(A)3:30 PM
FIELD HOCKEYCMU vs. Chatham(H)4:30 PM
WOMENS TENNISPennwcxxl West Conference Championships(H)9:00 AM
Silt. Oct. 18FOOTBALLCMlT vs. (iase Western Reserve(H)2:00 PM
X-COUNTRYCMU vs. Oise Reserve Wash.-Jeff.(H)3:30 PM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 14, 1980
the great american 
smokeout
November 20 American Cancer Society I
Netters clinch PWC crown with win over W&J
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY UNION presents
a return performance of a most
exciting musical event Wednesday, October 15
ORANGE 8:00 PMLAKE Peter Mills auditorium
DRIVE
in concert ivith CALEN BLUM 
Tickets: $3.50 with student ID/$4.50 without 
(Available at Skibo Hall) Call 434-6640
The Camegie-Mellon womens tennis 
team clinched the regular season title in the 
Penn wood West Conference with a 4-1 vic
tory over Washington and Jefferson last Sat
urday in Washington.
Once again, the singles players for Coach 
Mark Bush proved unstoppable as they took 
all five of the matches played. Annette Aloe, 
Jennifer Mullan, Bridgette Kyne, Diane 
Doyle and Margaret Mullan all breezed to 
straight victories.
The individual and team champions in 
the Pennwood West Conference will be 
crowned this Friday at the conference cham
pionships which will be held here at 
Camegie-Mellon. The competition will 
begin at 9:00 AM and continue throughout 
the day.
Field hockey
CMU 4 Wash-Jeff 1
Annette Aloe (CMU) defeated Kristen 
Moll 7-5, 6-1. Jennifer Mullan (CMU) 
defeated Cathy Pennant 6-2, 6-3. Bridgette 
Kyne (CMU) defeated Becca Reeves 6-3,6-0. 
Diane Doyle (CMU) defeated Meg Bergman 
6-2, 6-0. Margaret Mullan (CMU) defeated 
Beth White 6-0, 6-0.
Pauline Kramer and Fran Arscht (CMU) 
defeated Meg Bergman and Carla Lear 6-3, 
6-3. Tina Cherpes and Judy Tumquist 
(W&J) defeated Karen Jones and Sue Lauren 
6-4, 0-6 6-0.
ivins in OT
Bethany401.000LAST WEEKS GAMES
Camegie-Mellon31.750
John Carroll31.750Bethany 16 Camegie-Mellon 13
Hiram22.500Thiel 7 Hiram 6
Duel22.500John Carroll 13 Washington and
Wash.-Jeff.13.250Jefferson 3
Allegheny13.250Allegheny 28 Case Western Reserve 17
Case Reserve04.250
ECONOMICS and BEHAVIORAL SCIENCE MAJORS
The PhD Program at the Stanford Business School offers specializations in 
ECONOMICS AND PUBLIC POLICY 
ORGANIZATIONAL AND CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 
Other fields offered include 
Decision Sciences, Accounting, Finance, and Marketing.
Excellent opportunities for academic careers in research and teaching 
Call or write for admission and financial aid information.
Office of the Doctoral Program 
Graduate School of Business  Room 223 
Stanford University 
Stanford, California 94305 
(415) 497-2831
The Tartans dominated play in the first 
half and got the games first goal on a shot 
by inner Mary Rehak. Rehak now has four 
goals on the year. Once again, Barb Fitts 
played very well on defense, stopping W&J 
drives and getting the ball up to the 
forwards.
In the second half, the First Ladies man
aged to tie the score and would have taken 
the lead but for the play of freshman goaltender Leslie Schwarzchild who played her 
best game of the season.
photo by Spass Stoiantschewsky 
Carolyn Gray strains for the ball against Bethany 
earlier this year.
The Camegie-Mellon field hockey team 
came away with a suspenseful 2-1 victory 
last Friday at Tech Field. The win kept the 
Tartan in a first place tie with Bethany in 
the Pennwood West Conference.
Neither team could score in the remainder 
of regulation time or in the overtime period. 
When this occurs, conference rules call for 
each team to shoot five penalty shots to 
determine a winner. Neither team could 
score, thanks to some fine saves by both 
goalies, unul junior Elaine Andrysick 
flipped her shot into the top lefthand comer 
on CMUs fifth shot to give the Tartans the 
victory.
The Tartans meet Chatham College for 
their final league game this Friday at 4:30 
PM at Tech Field. A victory would clinch at 
least a tie in the Pennwood Conference.
PAC FOOTBALL STANDINGS
Pauline Kramer (left) and Bridgette Kyne each won their matches as the Tartans clinched the 
Pennwood West Conference regular season crown.
Baseball club has best year ever
by Mike Seel
The Tartan Baseball Club rounded out 
their rain-shortened fall schedule with a 
doubleheader split with strong Beaver 
County Community College. Their final 
record of 8-3, a .727 winning percentage, 
marked a new high for the Tartans.
In the opening game, freshman Bob Fla
herty made his first start in a Tartan uni
form. Yielding five runs on six hits, Flahery 
took the loss as the only offensive support 
the Tartans could muster was a seventh 
inning home run by Ed Novak.
Beaver followed their opening game vic
tory with a first inning rally against Tartan 
starter Jamie Pattison. Finding themselves 
down 6-0 after three innings in their final 
game of the season, the Tartans finally got 
their offense in gear. Mike Homer followed 
two walks with an RBI single to get the 
Tartans on the board in the fourth. Jim 
Pepka was then hit by a pitch and Wally
Weber stroked a two run single and Tim 
Perrot added another mn scoring hit. The 
deficit was now two runs at 6-4, But Beavei 
CC came back with a two mn homer in the 
fifth to build their lead to 8-4.
In the Tartan half of the sixth, an erroi 
single and fielders choice loaded the bases 
This time, Weber slashed a mn scoring dou 
ble, putting runners on second and third 
Mike Seel then walked, setting up a bases 
loaded situation for catcher Bemie Lavvr 
ence. He responded magnificently with i 
towering grand slam home mn over the lei 
center field fence to provide the margin in; 
9-8 Tartan victory.
Patuson was the benefactor of the rally as 
he held on to pick up his fourth run of tl*rt 
season. Surviving the opening inning rally, 
Jamie settled down, allowing only one hii 
over the last three innings. He combined 
eight strikeouts and two walks with*iiin( 
Baever CC hits to finish the seasor 
undefeated. ______________ .

---------------------------------------------------

BRADSHAW WIN LOSS
SAE13
Wild Bunch21
ATO31
PIKA-A30
Coaches All Stars22
Beta-A03
Haven III12
INTERMEDIATES
GREENE
Great White Hope 
I Stench III 
SUPA
| Cones 8c Go. 
Shippers Assets 
I Beta AA
SWANN
9 Hamerschlag Dorms
 Red Death
E Cosmic Echoes
?>llr I Oslo Men
 Johnson 8c Johnson
WIN LOSS
2 2
WIN
0
0
2
4
2
2
LOSS
3
3
1
0
2
1
HARRIS
Kappa Sig
Raiders
B.A.M.F.
Sinfonians
PKT-A
The Gang
ZBT
LAMBERT
Macks
Mudge
Doherty Doraa liLh MMe 
toss Hall 
DU
Chegsa
WIN LOSS
4 0
WIN
3
0
3
1
3
0
LOSS
0
4
1 O'*
3
1
1
rreshman Keith Devoss heads for home in the Tartans cross country victory last Saturday.
Hamers crush the Rock
The Camegie-Mellon cross country' team 
came away with two impressive dual meet 
victories over Slippery Rock and West Lib
erty last Saturday. The Tartans beat the 
Rockets, 21-36 and shut out West Liberty, 
15-50.
The Tartans took the first three places in 
the race with senior Dario Donatelli leading 
the way. He was followed by freshmen Mike 
Short and John Wessels. After three Slippery 
Rock runners placed fourth, fifth and sixth, 
Tartans Kevin Brewer crossed the finish line
in seventh position. Chris Shafer rounded 
out the CMU scoring as he finished eighth. 
Art Ward and Mark Knapp finished ninth 
and tenth respectively to round out the top 
ten and complete the Tartan shutout of 
West Liberty.
The Tartans next action will be Saturday 
when they race against Washington and Jef
ferson and Case Western Reserve. That meet 
will begin on Tech Field at half time of the 
Homecoming football game.
LOOKING FOR A PLACE 
TO TAKE AIR FORCE ROTC? LOOK HERE:A girl becomes a woman 
when she assumes responsibility 
for herself
Not all colleges and universities in the United States have 
Air Force ROTC programs. And we recognize that many 
people want to enter the two or four-year program and are 
looking for a school where they can take it. Call or visit one of 
the AFROTC detachments listed above and ask about the 
Crosstown program.
Here are some more facts that may be of interest:
 Courses are open to college men and women.
 Full scholarships are available that pay tuition, books, 
and lab fees, plus $100 a month for other expenses.
 You work toward an Air Force commission upon gradu
ation.
 You have an opportunity to serve your country as an Air 
Force officer.
 You dont have to be enrolled in these schools to attend 
the AFROTC program there.
Check it out right away. Youll find a brand new kind of op 
portunity. For more information, call or write:
Air Force ROTC, 2917 Cathedral of Learning 
Iniversily of Pittsburgh
MkWT/**XV yrjii TMJicffi
ROTC
At Women s Health Services you receive 
professional. Confidential help
 Free pregnancy testing
 Free pregnancy counseling 
 Termination ot unwanted
pregnancy
 Contraceptive care program
 Sexuality counseling
 Marriage counseling
 Gynecological checkups 
and Pap tests
 Sonography
Learn your body works 
and take good care ot it 
Call or write today
uhr7
WOMEN S HEALTH 
SERVICES INC 
1209 ALLEGHENY TOWER 
62S STANWIX STREET 
PITTSBURGH PA 1S222 
<412)562 1900 
MONDAY SATUROAY
cross country meet
by Wes Seeley
This years intramural cross country meet 
ill be held this Thursday at 4:30 PM on 
agstaff Hill. Everyone is welcome to paripate in the event that will be mn over a 
9 mile course. Runners may enter as an 
idividual or as a member of a five-person 
lam. There will be a special competition 
women, and faculty and staff are invited 
r fun. Runners may enter at the starting 
jjne on race day. For further information, 
imtact commissioner Bob Dudas, phone 
|j2-6133 or Mr. Birdy in the IM office at 
*78-2214
I In touch football, playoffs are fast 
fl jproaching and the division races are 
I taping up. In the majors, Pika-A is the 
inly undefeated team remaining. In the 
litermediates, Zoo-A is undefeated in the 
livann division, Kappa Sig hasnt lost in the 
1 [arris division and the Macks are undeit
feated in the Lambert division. Stench III 
and Beta AA lead the Greene division. In the 
minors, all of the divisional races are still up 
for grabs. Kappa Kappa Gamma defeated 
the Caramel Connection last Saturday to 
take sole possession of first place in the 
Womens League.
The top two teams in each division in 
Minors and Intermediates will go to the 
playoffs. Playoff arrangements for Majors 
and Womens League will be announced 
soon. Also, please note the winning team on 
the scoresheet and return all equipment to 
the shed after each nights games.
The commisioner for Majors and 
Womens is Rocky Cersosimo, phone 578- 
4613. Mack McKeefrey, phone 682-9211, and 
Wes Seeley, phone 687-0843, for Minors and 
Intermediates.
Water Polo is underway with SAE lead
ing. Please return all equipment after the
MAJORS
October 14, 1980The TartanPage 17
set for this Thursday
final game. There must be a certified life 
gaurd present at each game. The commis
sioner is Chris Burke, phone 682-9313.
Mike Pocham is the commissioner of CoRec Volleyball. Equipment for games can 
be checked out with Buddy Hobart in the 
IM equipment room.
Matches will begin this week for racquetball. It is not too late to file a roster. A match 
is the best of three games. Jon Polansky is 
the commissioner, phone 372-2576.
Play will start this week also in team table 
tennis. This is the last call for teams. Dave
Kusuma, phone 578-4270, is the 
commissioner.
Sports with entries due soon include 
soccer. Entries are due on October 23 at 4:30 
PM. Please get your teams in. There will be 
a majoer and minor league.
Thursday, October 23 is also the last day 
to submit rosters for 6 man volleyball. Mike 
Pdchan, phone 683-0372, is commissioner.
There will be an impoortant IM board 
meeting on October 16 at 12:30 PM in the 
IM office. Make sure your organization is 
representated at this important meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

tiwrvtn j><5 ?!
The semiconductor industry is the heart of a technological rev
olution that promises fundamental changes in the way we will 
all work and live. We at Fairchild are committed to a leadership 
position in the development of products and processes that will 
make that promise a reality.
We offer outstanding career opportunities for technicallydegreed people in both our Semiconductor and Automatic Test 
Equipment product groups. For specific information, please 
contact your placement office or write: Fairchild Camera 
& Instrument Corporation, College Relations, MS 7-100,
464 Ellis Street, Mountain View, CA 94042.
A ScMumberger Company
Fair child is proud of its record as an affirmative action employer and we encourage women, members of minor
ity groups and handicapped to apply.
On Campus Interviews 
October 20, 1980

---------------------------------------------------

;ONCERTflLE
Decade Concerts
Danny Kresky Enterprises has lined up 
mid-October sampling of rising new 
nds at the Decade Club in Oakland. 
,his Saturday night features Australias 
ngel City, touring in support of their 
econd album, Darkroom. Coming this 
londay evening, October 20, RCA 
^cording artist Ellen Shipley will make 
^er Pittsburgh debut. And Wednesday 
ight, 3-D will be performing.
Gary Numan
[ Next Tuesday, October 21, Dicesare 
ngler Productions will present the key
board wizardry of Gary Numan at the 
Jowntown Stanley Theatre. Tickets will 
Hie available at downtown National 
ecord Marts and ftie Stanley Theatre.
JEAN LUC-PONTY
October 25 will be a Saturday of great jazz 
ith three great artists. That night Jean
Luc-Ponty will take the stage of the Stanley 
Theatre for an evening of enjoyable fusion
like jazz. Ponty has been said to be one of the 
worlds greatest jazz violinists and has 
recorded sessions with a variety of eclectic 
artists (including a stint with Frank Zappa 
and The Mothers of Invention).
The opening act is a major team of jazz 
greats also. Larry Carlton and Larry Coryell 
gained their notoriety separately, both work
ing as experienced session musicians. Carl
ton is extremely prolific and has played a 
major part in the music of The Crusaders 
and Steely Dan. The two guitarists are usu
ally associated with different guitars: Carl
ton mainly on the electric and Coryell on the 
acoustic. But both are extremely versatile 
and should prove to be interesting comple
ments to each other.
Tickets are on sale now at the Stanley box 
office, National Record Marts and the other 
usual outlets.
a.b.
October 16
Thursday Film Arts Series
Computer Science 
and Electrical Engineering 
Majors
San Francisco Bay Area company developing state of 
the art computer software and hardware for integrated 
voice and data office communications systems seeks 
talented individuals interested in:
SOFTWARE
 Operating Systems
 Real Time Distributed Computing
 Data Communications
 Office Automation Applications
 Office of the Future Applications
.  Diagnostics
 Software Tools
HARDWARE
 Microprocessor Applications
 Digital and Analog Design
 Telephony
 Data Communications
ROLM Corporation, founded in 1969 has grown 
50%-100% each year and currently has 3700 
employees. ROLMs Telecommunications 
Division is the leading independent supplier of 
computer controlled voice and data business 
communications systems.
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after 
six years (and every seven years thereafter), 
company paid tuition and time off for graduate 
study at Stanford University. Employees can take 
advantage of flexible working hours to use 
ROLMs million dollar recreational facility which 
includes tennis courts, racquetball courts, 
basketball, exercise room, volleyball, swimming 
pools, par course, sauna, steam room and 
jacuzzi.
On Campus Interviews 
Monday, October 27
Meet with working software and hardware engineers 
from ROLM in the Placement Center. See our Company 
literature in the Placement Center. .
If unable to attend an 
interview, send resume to:
Gibson Anderson 
Manager, Recruiting & Training 
ROLM Corporation 
4900 Otd Ironsides Drive M/S 560 
Santa Clara, CA 95050
We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
CORPORATION
Rebecca, directed by Alfred Hitchcock and 
starring Laurence Olivier and Joan Fontaine. 
This adaptation of Daphne Du Mauriers * 
novel was Hitchcocks first American-made 
film and won the Academy Award for Best 
Motion Picture. Olivier, a young widower, is 
haunted by a memory he cannot face. 
Fontaine, an awkward, scatter-brained young 
woman is taken as Oliviers new bride to his 
family manor where she is threatened and 
intimidated by the servants, and housekeeper, 
but especially the ghost of Rebecca, the first 
Mrs. Dewinter.
6, 8:15 ana 10:30 p.m. in DH 2210. $1 with 
CMU ID.
October 17 
Friday Film Series
The Electric Horseman starring Robert 
Redford, Jane Fonda and Willie Nelson. 6, 
8:30 and 11 in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID, 
$1.25 without
October 23
Thursday Film Arts Series
8% by Federico Fellini. Generally regarded as 
Felinis masterpiece, winner of an Academy 
Award for best Foreign Film. Marcello 
Maroianni plays a famous film director who 
finds himself at an impasse in both his 
personal and professional affairs.
6, 8:15 and 10:30 in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID
art
film
SDC Film Series 
October 11
A Little Romance by George Roy Hill. 
Starring Lord Laurence Olivier and Susan 
Sarandon. 6, 8, 10, and 12 in DH 2210. $.50 
with CMU ID, $1 without.
October 18
2001: A Space Odyssey by Stanley Kubrick. 
Starring Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood. 6, 
8:30 and U in DH 2210.
PTICT
ENGINEERING DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355*04444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 6 P.Mj
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC.
819 PENN AVE i PGH.)
October 20 through March 13 
Kate Greenway
The English Victorian artist and illustrator 
will have her works displayed in the Hunt 
Institute for Botanical Documentation, 
located in the Penthouse of Hunt library. 
Penthouse hours are Monday throgh Friday 9 
to 5 p.m. Free and open to the public.
Carnegie Museum of Art
October 11 through January 4 
Hopi Kachina: Spirit of Life
A visual interpretation of the Hopi culture 
through more than 150 kachina dolls, 
basketry, pottery, clothing and painting. 
Organized by the California Academy of 
Sciences. In the museum of Natural History. 
October 24 through January 4 
Constructivism and the Geometric Tradition 
Selections from the McCrory Corporation are 
the major fall exhibition of the Museum of 
Art. Spanning six decades of geometric 
abstraction from the 1920s to the present, 
including works by Mondrian, Albers, 
Vasarely and Delauney Gallery 12, B, C 
Through November 2
Paintings by Rachel McCelland Sutton,
Gallery D
Through November 23
Sculpture by CMU professor, Edward Eberle,
Entrance Gallery
October 11 through February 15
Durer and his Contemporaries, Gallery 10
October 24 through February 15
Prints by Richard Anuszkiewicz, Gallery Atheater
Through October 26
Im Getting My Act Together...
Pittsburgh Public Theatre Production at the 
Allegheny Theatre, North Side. Off Broadway 
musical sensation. Tuesday through Thursday at 
8. Friday and Saturday at 8:30. Sunday at 2 and 7. 
323-1900
October 16-19 
American Dance Ensemble
The opening production of the ensembles 1980- 
81 season features Graduation Ball by Johann 
Strauss, a ballet originally choreographed by 
David Lichine. Other selections include Les 
Comedies Olympienne, a new work by artistic 
director Nicholas Petrov and a pas de deux from 
Harlequinade. Tickets are from $4 to $7. 
Thursday through Sunday at 8 and Saturday and 
Sunday at 3.621-4445 for tickets and information.
October 22 
Edward Albee
The author of Whos Afraid of Virginia Woolf 
will read in Carnegie Lecture Hall under the 
auspices of the International Poetry Forum. 
Student ticket price is $2.75. 8 p.m. For tickets 
and information call 621-9893.
October 18
The Cheat Mountain Poets
A presentation of the Pittsburgh Poetry 
Exchange and the Lion Walk Performing 
Arts Center, 8:30 p.m. $2 donation at door.
GRADUAT SCHOOLO BUSINESS
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
Dean Karin Brocksbank will be on your campus October 
17, 1980 to speak with students from all disciplines who are 
interested in the M.B.A. and Ph.D. degree programs. Twelve 
concentrations are offered in the Business School plus joint 
degree programs with the Schools of Architecture. 
Engineering, International Affairs, Journalism, Law, Public 
Health, Social Work, and Teacher's College. Ft further 
details please contact Office of Career Services and 
Placement.
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.classified
Typesetters needed at The Tartan.No expe
rience necessary; we will train. Must be able to 
type accurately and quickly. Weekends only. 
Work-study preferred. Salary $3.50/hour. 
Call Richard Alsterberg at x4514 or The Tar
tan at x2111.
TYPING. Term papers, letters, dissertadons, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 PM if possible.
Typing-experienced, freelance secretary, will 
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888. 
Cash: Wanted 10,000 Wrecks and Junkers, 23 
hr. 422-9968.
Professional typing at reasonable rates. Specialize 
in last minute work. Dissertadons, manuscripts, 
term papers, statisdcal. etc. Call 371-3657. 24 hr. 
service, IBM Selectric.
Addressers wanted immediately! Work at homeno experience necessary-excellent pay. Write: 
Nadonal Service, 9041 Mansfield, Suite 2004, 
Shreveport, Louisiana 71118.
Want it done right? Typing, ediung, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, thesis, dissertadons. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM execudve. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 PM.
Moving and light hauling; campus based and 
reasonable. Call late evenings 687-3062.
Loft for sale. Best offer. Call Fred ext. 4533.club
Scotch *N Soda will sponsor a Mime Workshop
on Oct. 25 in Room 12 for beginners and expe
rienced mimes. If interested in attending, please 
sign up on the office call board, Skibo 40D, for 
either the 12:30-2:00 PM or 2:30-4:00 PM session 
Tired of seeing outdated posters on ugly public 
bulletin boards? Join the Neatnics! Respond by 
putting your name, address, and phone number 
on paper and putting it in the Senate mailbox at 
the info desk.official
The Pre-Law Advisor on Campus is Thomas M. 
Kerr, Associate Professor of Industrial Adminis
tration and Law, Room 206, GSIA, Extension 
2295. He is a lawyer. Information about law 
school applications and admission can be 
obtained from him. He has pre-law information 
for minority students respecting some financial 
aid which may be available to them. Also, he has 
available publications respecting law educa
tional opportunities for women and information 
about women practicing law.
John P. Credne, Dean of College erf Humanities 
& Social Sciences, will have open office hours for 
students, Tuesdays from 1:30 to 3:30.general
Original scripts will be read, discussed and cri
tiqued in Scotch N Sodas Sodies. All interested 
in acting, reading, people, and theatre, please 
come on Wed., Oct. 15 at 8 PM in Room 11, 
Skibo. More Sodies will be held during the semes
ter, and scripts are always welcome. Our office 
Skibo 40D.
Scotch N Sodas constitution will be amended
on Oct. 22 at 5 PM. Members may borrow a copy 
of the proposed constitution from the Scotch N 
Soda mailbox at the Skibo Informaion Desk. 
Comments are welcome - leave them in the mail
box or call Felicia.
CIA meeting. There wall be a meeting of the
Camegie-Mellon Involvement Association on
Wednesday October 22 at 10:00 PM in the Morewood Rec. Room. All interested in working on
Buggy for fall free roll pleaseattend. Also bring 
dues, T-Shirt and candy money. For more infor
mation call x4897.
The Student's Dormitory Council meets every 
Wednesday night at 7:00 in the Wherrett Room 
in Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend and 
participate.
Student Senate Vacancies - Petitions are available 
at Skibo Information Desk. Must be returned by 
Monday, October 20 to Skibo Desk. 2-QT, 1- 
MCS, 1-CFA.
Student Government Election Board is now
being formed. Petitions available at Skibo and 
should be returned there as soon as possible. 
Student Corporation announces the opening of 
two new services on campus, The TShirt Co. 
and The Campus Cheese Co. The TShirt Co. 
will be taking orders from any group on campus. 
For more information on prices call Student Cor
poration at x3535 or at x4254. The Campus 
Cheese Co. takes orders for cheeses which are well 
under the retail price. For more information call 
or stop by the Corporation office in Skibo Rm. 58 
or call 578-3535. Corporation meets every Thurs
day at 4:30 in Skibo Rm. 33. Bring us your ideas!
Celebrate Word and Sacrament Sunday morn
ings at 10:30 AM and Wednesday evenings at 7 
PM at the Lutheran University Center Chapel, 
and Sunday evenings at 6:15 PM at Heinz 
Chapel. The Role of Women in the Church will 
be discussed Sunday morning, October 19 at 9:15 
AM at the Lutheran University Center, 4515 
Forbes Ave. The entire Oakland community is 
welcome.
The Bookstore will be open for Homecoming,
Saturday, October 18, from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM. 
The non-credit class, On Loss and Death con
tinues Wednesday evenings through November 
12 at 7:30 PM at the Lutheran University Center, 
4515 Forbes Ave. following Holy Eucharist. 
Bnai Brith Hillel
October 15 7:00 PM. Take a study break. Skibo 
Information Desk. Organizational meeting for 
study sessions and rap groups.
October 16 8:00 pm. Israeli Dancing, Hillel 
Lounge.
October 17 5:30 pm. Shabbat Services and 
Dinner.
October 19 12:00 pm. Brunch and forum on the 
Holocaust. Speaker will be Mark Adler, from 
Boston University.
Students interested in Study Abroad in England, 
Ireland, Scotland, Wales or Vienna are invited to 
meet with a Beaver College representative on 
Tuesday, October 28 at 2 PM in the Academic 
Advisory Center, BH 161. Please sign up by Mon
day, October 27 with Dean Lloyd. Meetings later 
in the day may be arranged if there are class 
conflicts.scholarship
Candidates for 1981-82 Luce Scholarships are
now being nominated by Camegie-Mellon, one 
of the 60 colleges and universities that participate 
in the Luce Scholars Program. Camegie-Mellon 
will submit its nominations to the Luce Founda
tion early this fall.
Sponsored by the Henry Luce Foundation, the 
Scholars Program was established in 1973 to 
improve American understanding of Asia. Fif
teen Luce Scholars are selected each year on the 
basis of their leadership potential. They are 
assigned to one-year placements in Asian com
Read about one of Carnegie Techs 
most distinguished alumnus in this 
fascinating book of memoirs
WYOMING SCIENTIST
Horses to Spaceships 
Memoirs by Emerson M. Pugh
The settlement ot the Western fron
tier and the growth of 20th-century 
technology are undoubtedly two of the 
most exciting chapters in American 
history. Emerson M Pugh not only 
witnessed both eras, but played a cru
cial role in the culmination of each 
As a young man in Evanston, WY. 
Emerson Pugh worked on the railroad 
and highway surveying crews that 
opened the rugged Wyoming frontier 
and even enioyed a stint as a pioneer 
banker. But. he could not remain in 
his beloved home state An innate 
interest in science led to a disting
uished career in education and electro
magnetic researchfirst, at the Cali
fornia Institute of Technology and, 
later, at Pittsburgh's Carnegie Tech
Student, banker, scientist, professor, 
authorDr. Pugh recounts each phase 
of his multivaried life with simplicity 
and candor Nostalgic, informative, 
WYOMING SCIENTIST is a "fascinating 
book of memoirs."B. F. Edmonds, McCormick (SC) Messenger 
Illustrated with 28 photographs 
ISBN 0-682-49392-9 $15.00
WYOMING SCIENTIST it available al
CARNEGIE MELLON BOOK STORE 
Baker Hall 
Sehenley Park 
Pittsburgh PA 15213 
(412) 578 2966
An Eiposition Preu Book
munities under the guidance of leading Asians 
and are viewed as professional apprentices. The 
distinguishing feature of the program is that it is 
directed exclusively toward those who are not 
Asian or international specialists.
Candidates must be American citizens, under 
thirty years of age, and recipients of at least a 
bachelors degree. Graduating seniors may be 
nominated if a degree is forthcoming prior to 
departure for Asia.
For further information about the nomination 
procedures, contact the Henry Luce Foundation, 
111 West 50th Street, New York, New York 
10020. Telephone: 212-489-7700.
CMU Campus Liason Officer is J. Dennis 
Ryan.
Philip Morris Marketing/Communications 
Competition wall award a total of $7,000 to students.The competition is designed to provide an 
opportunity for students nationwide to sharpen 
their marketing and communications skills.
A first place award of $2,000, a second place 
award of $1,000, and a third place award of $500 
will be presented to the winning entries in both 
the graduate and undergraduate categories. In 
addition, student representatives and faculty 
advisors will be invited to corporate headquarters 
in New York City to discuss their projects with 
Philip Morris executives.
Students are invited to develop a marketing/com 
munications project related to Philip Morris 
Incorporated or any of its non-tobacco products 
and operations. A distinguished committee o| 
marketing/communications experts will judge 
selected entries.The competition is divided into 
graduate and undergraduate categories, and is 
open to students currently enrolled in any accre
dited college or university. Undergraduate stu
dents must work in groups of three or more, and 
graduate students in groups of two or more, both 
under the counsel of a full-time faculty member, 
Fall Poetry Contest 
A $1000 grand prize will be awarded in "i 
Sixth Annual Fall Poetry Competition spon 
sored by the World of Poetry, a quarterly newslet 
ter for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject are 
eligible to compete for the grand prize or for 49 
other cash or merchandise awards.
Says Poetry Editor Eddie-Lou Cole, We are 
encouraging poetic talent of every kind, and 
expect our contest to produce exciting 
discoveries-like Virginia Bates, a housewife from 
Woodbine, Maryland. She won our grand prize 
last year with her poem PIETA.
Rules and official entry forms are available 
from World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dep 
N, Sacramento, California 95817.
FOR THOSE 0NCE4NMJFET1ME SNAPSHOTSf .art) 1
MAKE SURE YOUR FILM IS IN THE RIGHT HANDS
At ASA  Photo we take great pride in the quality of our work. 
ASA Photo is the only photo processor in Pittsburgh that 
allows you to watch your own film being developed. So, whether 
youre a professional 35 MM photographer or a weekend snapper, 
ASA  Photos the place for you.
^*  Same day service on
ektachrome film
 Fast, fast service on 
all other films.
 Glossy prints at no 
extra charge at all 
110,126,135 film.
 Instant color 
passports photos.
i
deve\oPed ;;
MrPHOTO00 1 - I / u................im
Hodok popMw tor a soootoofc.
3527 FORBES AVENUE 
681-1720
-
IRON CITY REGULAR IRON CITY LIGHT SCHLITZ BUDSCHMIDTSSCHMIDTS BOCK DARK CHAMPALE WHITE OR PINK STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHLITZBALLANTINE ALE MICHELOB REGULAR MICHELOB LIGHT PABSTPABST EXTRA LIGHT MILLER MILLER LI6HT COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS MILLER. MICHELOB. M0LS0N ALE. HEiNEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 ot. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHUTZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED Til. 4 AM 
NOT DOGS - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
Original
r ^ mat nnn
* BECKS LIGHT OR OARK Germany* CARISBURG MALT Denmark* OORT HANSA Germany* H0FBRAU Germany* FISCHER GOLO France* HOLSTEN LAGER Germany* ST PAULI GIRL Germany  SPATEN Germany' RIGNES SPECIAL Nerway* SWAN LAGER Australia* BASS ALE England* MAC KESON STOUT England* LOWENBRAU LIGHT OR DARK Germany
IMPORTSWHITEBREAD PALE ALE England* PILSNER URQUELL CntMuulili* RIGNES Nerwiy' 00S tQUIS Mexico* PtRONI Italy* GUINESS STOUT Ireland* GROLSCHE Holland* G0SSER Austria* SAN MIGUEL Phillpines  KIRIN Japan* M01S0N ALE Canada* KRAKUS Peland* HEINEKEN IT A OK Heiland  FOSTER S LASER AustraliaAND MANY OTMCRS
HOT 00G SHOPS. INC. 621-7388 or 821 -11853901 FORBES AV. ( OAK t. ANO) POH., PA. 19213

