The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 20, March 15, 1983.
'an Horn to 
\eave CMU 
for Houston
, PAULINE KRAMER
rtan Features Editor
CMU Provost Richard Van Horn will be 
eating his position to serve as chancellor 
the University of Houstons Central Camis beginning September 1. 
planning and leading 30,000 students in 
colleges on 800 acres poses a large 
crease over CMUs statistics. The 76 GSIA 
umnus is extremely excited, however, 
iout the change: Itll be a new experience; 
re never lived in the South before, he said, 
ts a university that I feel Ill be very comrtable at because it has a lot of features 
nilar to CMU.
Van Horn has been associated with 
imegie-Mellon since 1967, when he was 
i associate dean of GSIA. Since then he has 
rved as director of budget and planning, 
ce president for business affaire, and vice 
esident for management. Three years ago 
: was named provost.
Looking forward to Houstons subtropi1 climate for its outdoor sports advan
ces, and the universitys beautiful campus 
lduding a 200 foot reflecting pool, waterlls, and many trees), Van Horn is aware of 
oustons dominance in college sports. He 
ces golf and tennis but admits that he sort 
plays at tennis  my wife is better than I
Credited wi th having a large say in propaiting the personal computing affair, Van 
pom is particularly sorry to leave the 
j|hole computing project. Theres an area 
leave with great regret.
Photo by John Sdlwdl
Hie Tri-Delts placed first overall and in the sorority competition on Friday, March 11, at the Syria Mosque.
Financial Aid process shortened
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU financial aid office is forming 
an expanded terminal network with the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The new 
system will make the process of filing for 
financial aid more efficient and less costly to 
the student.
In the past, students were required to file 
state and federal grant forms. Not only were 
the two forms identical, but students had to 
pay to have the federal grant form processed. 
Another grievance was the fact that the Col
lege Scholarship Service, which processes 
the forms, is mosdy staffed by part-time 
employees who are more prone to error than 
full-time staff. Weve never been very
excited about this process, said Financial 
Aid Director Walter Cathie.
Undo" the new system, most students will 
file a single state grant/federal grant form 
which will be processed in Harrisburg. The 
information will be processed and sent to 
CMU via computer. With the number of 
out-of-state students increasing, a vital ques
tion was whether the people in Harrisburg 
would be willing to process forms from 
these students. The bottom line, said 
Cathie, is they will.
The new system does not apply to stu
dents from Connecticut, Delaware, Mary
land, Massachusettes, Rhode Island, 
Vermont, West Virginia, and juniors and 
seniors from New Jersey. These students
11
He smiled and proclaimed that he will be 
good alumnus of CMU. After momentily dwelling on leaving the many relationips he has established within the 
ministration and student body, the new 
lancellor stated, But then again, everydy can come and visit me down there.
Photo bv Steve Winawer
*1 tender Bob Kosakowski led the hockey team lo a WPIHL Championship and a record-setting 1/*1 season record.
will be required by their states to fill out two 
separate forms, state and federal.
While the new system saves the students 
time and money and makes the information 
more accessible to the school, it does have 
two drawbacks, Cathie pointed out First, 
the extra hardware the system requires will 
cost approximately $24,000 a year more than 
the present system. Secondly, the financial 
aid office will not have a chance to see the 
actual forms, but will only be able to view 
the information on the terminal screen.
Weve expanded our own institutional 
application to capture data that the PHEAA 
form doesnt ask for, said Cathie. The new 
application incorporates most erf the infor
mation on the PHEAA supplement
We also have to collect data on the selec
tive service, said Cathie. By law, financial 
aid offices must collect certified statements 
and verify draft registration before issuing 
aid. On one part of the form, students will 
have to sign a statement saying they have 
registered or are exempt from draft registra
tion. Cathie observed that this procedure 
could become obsolete should the law be 
overturned in court. Wed like the state to 
collect the information, and to remove us 
from the process.
Finals plans 
are changed
The final exam schedule for spring 1983 
has again been changed. The schedule, 
approved by President Richard Cyert, will 
be: Wednesday, last day of classes; Thurs
day, reading day; Friday, exams; Saturday 
and Sunday, reading days; Monday through 
Friday, exams. Senior grades will be due by 4 
p.m. Friday.
If any student has more than two exams 
scheduled for one day, the Registrar should 
be contacted to arrange for help.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.________________________Food Services contract policies unfair
For years now students have been gradually 
coerced into buying the contract food plan, 
and this is unfair.
First, some of the benefits from the Validine 
food plan were removed; for every $ 100 you put 
into the plan you used to get a five dollar 
bonus, while now it costs five dollars to add 
money to your account. After that, freshmen 
were required to buy contracts. And now, 
Morewood is being converted to a second con
tract facility.
According to Director of Auxiliary Services 
Oscar Mayer, there are three to four times as 
many people on contract this year as in the 
past, so he argues expansion in contract facili
ties is needed. Cant the administration see the 
cycle it is creating? Of course more students are 
on contract now; freshmen are required to be 
on it, and if Morewood is converted the upper
classmen will find their options severely 
limited.
More people are on contract, so additional 
contract dining areas are being established, 
and in turn even more people use these con
tract plan cafeterias  where else can they go?
It is unfair for students to be forced into 
buying a certain food plan. Next year, the only 
places available for a la carte priced meals will 
be the Tartan Grill and Salads Plus. Neither of 
these places, by itself, can provide a complete 
and nourishing meal, unless you consider a 
hamburger, fries and Coke to be a balanced 
diet.
Why is it necessary to so heavily limit the 
options available to the students? If the prob
lem is money, there are alternatives to forcing 
students to pay for contracts. Instead of increas
ing its income from students, Food Service 
should be able to cut its costs.
More students can be employed by Food 
Service, both in the cafeterias and in the Food 
Service offices. Students are paid lower wages 
than their full-time counterparts, and hiring 
students will create more work-study jobs. 
With training, a student can cook as well as a 
highly-paid full-time employee. This training 
would not cause a significant setback. What 
rule dictates that Food Service must employ so 
many outsiders when the students are being
hurt by it?
In addition to cutting the amount of rrw 
which must be paid out, Food Service can sa\? 
money by cutting the number of renovati0] 
made each year. Last year they renovated Kite 
Cafeteria, not because it was necessary ^ 
health or safety reasons but because sorrier^ 
in the administration wanted it to look ni^ 
The umbrellas, new carpetting, and new in* 
rior walls might be nice, but they are certainl 
not necessary and they are costing the students.
Next year Morewood and Salads Plus will 
be renovated. Exacdy what is involved? We see 
no problems with these places the way they^ 
now. Why must valuable money be spent on 
interior decoradon? Food Service should 
undl they can stay out of the red for a year 9 
two before planning such extravagam 
changes.
We think that Food Service is making 
mistake, and we cannot see the motivation fa 
this change. There are ways for Food Service 
remain out of debt without penalizing ft 
students.
The needs of the students are an import^ 
consideration, arent they?
Shapiro's buffetReagan and his aides walk down the road to helI
points of view. Attorney General Willia 
French Smith recently invoked seldom us 
power to officially label a couple of Care 
dian films on the subject of acid rain a 
propaganda. The Justice Department all 
gets a list of all organizations that show it 
films. Nobody enjoys criticism, but this is 
rather knee-jerk and a reprehensiU 
reaction.
Just a State of Mind. The administrate 
continues its efforts to water down theexdu 
sionary rule. If it succeeds, well be faa 
with the novel situation of constitutionalii 
dependent on the ability of the courts tora 
the minds of police officers. The roadtohe 
is paved with good intentions.
I could go on, but Im already sufficient!; 
scared and depressed.
TheTartan.
Editor in Chief.................................Monica 01
Managing Editor...................................Gregg
Business Manager............................ Kathy Wa*
News Editor...............................Joanne Savin
Features Editor..................  Pauline Krai#
Entertainment Editor............................3usan i
Sports Editor..........................................Jeff Berj
Photography Editor.......................Steve Wina*
Production Manager................Carolyn Spera
Ad Manager ........................................Bonnie Tp
Typesetting Manager.........................Patti Caib
Art Director..................................Michael Sus^
Contributing Editors . .........................Alice.
Vince Guia 
Louise CMU
Assoc EnL Editor..............................John Can
Assistant Business Mgr......................Tara Di^
Assistant News Editors..................Chris Johns*
Pauline ^
Asst Features Editor.......................Monia ^
Asst Sports Editor...............................Ric ^
Asst Photo Editor.............................Jean "j
Asst. Production Mgr...............................Peter 
Production Staff: Susan Bossi, Margaret 
Esther Filderman, Andrew Ghali.
Copyright < 1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial* 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 0 
Ski bo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113 Maj 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
By Stuart Shapiro
In any given week, there is usually some 
issue of particular prominence on which the 
Reagan administration can be criticized. 
Last week, however, provided a buyers/
market for those of us who feel 
inclined to take the administra
tion to task every now and then. 
I cant bear the thought of pass
ing up so many gems in order to comment 
on only one. Therefore, here is what can 
only be described as a Bonzo Buffet.
Fun with Anne, John, and Ron. Anne 
Burfords departure from the EPA was long 
overdue. Through ineptitude and/or mali
cious calculation, she and her band of mis
fits have managed to destroy to a large extent 
the morale, effectiveness, and integrity of the 
agency. Not even Reagans high handed 
attempt to block Congressional oversight of 
the agency with claims of executive privi
lege could blunt growing awareness of the 
fiasco that the EPA has become.
Fortunately, Representative John Dingell 
and company have no intention of acceptas litde as possible for as much as possible. 
Were paying through the nose for fancy 
weapon systems that dont work and in 
some cases arent even needed. Of course, 
lacking any coherent defense strategy, its 
hard to tell whats needed and what isnt. 
What is definitely needed is a new Secretary 
of Defense.
Missiles for Jesus. The world of nuclear 
deterrence has always been rather bizarre. 
Even so, things are out of hand when the 
President of the United States starts using 
religion as a rationale for nuclear strategy. I 
dont recall any place in the Bible w'here the 
Lord takes a position on nuclear diplomacy. 
God is not a national security consultant. 
Nor, I suspect, does He appreciate being 
presented as a member of the Reagan team.
El Salvador and other Domino Games. 
Enough said.
Seeing that Sort of Trash can Ruin Your 
Mind. For a bunch of guys so dedicated to 
traditional American values, the gang in the 
Reagan administration seems to expend a 
lot of effort on attempts to discredit differing
ing Burford as a sacrificial lamb and will 
continue to probe the goings on at EPA. The 
administration may find itself forced to actu
ally enforce environmental regulations after 
all.
The Merry Whiners of War. Caspar 
Weinbergers cries of U.S. military weakness 
have become intolerable. His dire predic
tions are so inaccurate, so irrational, and so 
self-serving as to defy belief. If taken 
seriously, one can only conclude the United 
States is on the verge of total military col
lapse. If the Soviets believed him they would 
have already started World War III. Ironi
cally, the most incredibly and blindly pro
defense administration in decades has 
probably done more to damage U.S. mil
itary capability than all the years of miliatary neglect following the Vietnam War 
combined.
Instead of putting the whiz kids in the 
Pentagon on a short lease as advertised 
when he was nominated, Secretary Wein
berger presides over an inchoate spending 
spree with the apparent objective of buying
Vodrey digs up obscure magazines
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
I was wondering the other day just how 
many magazines there ate. Sure, anybody 
can ratde off a few well-know ones  Time, 
Life, Consumer Reports, or Newsweek  
but I want to know if anyone has 
actually counted up ALL the 
magazines there are. To limit 
thic thing to manageable pro
portions, lets confine ourselves to the Uni
ted States.
Youd be amazed at some of the maga
zines there are that really have a following. I 
would think some of them would just be put 
out every once in a while as a gag, but not so. 
For instance, when I was a senior in high 
school and frantically doing some lastminute research for a history paper, I 
bumped into the following two magazines 
in the school library  Turkey Quarterly 
and American Beekeeper. Now, really, 
would you think that ANY magazine with 
the word beekeeper in its name could 
maintain a respectable following? I would 
say no.
But then you start thinking about all the 
turkeys and bees there are in the United 
States, and how many farmers and beekeep
ers there must be to take care of them, and 
then you see there is a genuine need for 
American Beekeeper and Turkey Quarterly. 
In fact, after thinking this through, I was 
surprised I had never heard of these maga
zines before.
Theres another one that is the fan club 
magazine for Jeannette MacDonald and 
Nelson Eddy. I can hardly say that with a 
straight face, but I kid you not. I think its 
absurd. How much can you say about 
Jeannette and Nelson? When Im calling 
you-oo-oooooo . . .
Among other weird magazines, there is a 
magazine on the joys of chocolate (a subject 
which, lately, has been as obnoxiously over
used as cats were a few- years ago), the design 
of hospital lounges and waiting rooms, and 
on the collecting of and caring for Match
box cars.
What about a magazine for people with 
tattoos? Arent there a lot of people with
tattoos? Or a magazine about doing the 
laundry right, since no one really seems to 
know what to do about mustard stains? God 
knows we all do a lot of laundry. Thatd 
probably be a pretty popular one. Or maybe 
they could put popular books into maga
zine form: How to Win Friends and Influ
ence People, Doctor Zhivago, or  date I say 
it?  how about The I Iliad April issue?
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and English 
literature and is a columnist for TheTartan.Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial B<jard. 
Letters fo the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the L'nh'ersity commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
xmfication. Sanies will be withheld upon request. 
The Tartan re.senn the right to condense or reject any 
letter.

---------------------------------------------------

March 15, 1983The TartanPage 3
tudent right-to-work \'s really freeloading
diton
I j reaC[ with considerable unpleasant surise vour article in the 22 .February 1983 
kue on the so-called Student Right to 
fork legislation. I had hoped that Mr. 
lolstes departure would hasten the demise 
r ^ pet project of his. Apparendy such is 
the case.
i To begin, let us refer to this legislation by 
more accurate title  the Student Right 
freeload legislation. All people who 
|ork in union shops reap benefits that took 
hose unions years of effort and large sums 
E money to achieve. The money to support 
efforts comes from union dues, 
jlthough temporary workers do not gener|ly receive such benefits as old-age penons, they do receive substantial benefits 
om union achievements; the most imporof which are safety and pay.
One of the reasons for the growth of 
lions in this country was the appalling 
ifety record of early industrial America, 
j/orkers were treated as just another kind of 
hpital equipment, another sort of machine 
) be used up, worn out, and thrown away if 
was considered economical to do so. 
nions played an important role in win|ing humane and safe working conditions. 
dt those of you who do not think that this 
ocess is still going on, consider the plight 
nuclear and asbestos workers dying of 
cer and lung diseases. If you work in a 
fe shop, you are fortunate. Some of the 
nks goes to your union.
The other important benefit is pay. How 
y of you would like to work for the 
immer at the Reagan Administrations 
lew sub-minimum wage of $2.84/hour? I 
I > not think I see many volunteers. What 
bout the $3.35/hour minimum? That does 
lot go very far towards paying for college (or 
Bst staying alive). Students, just like all 
orkers deserve the right to an honest payI leek for an honest days work. Friends of 
line have paid for the major portion of 
iteir entire college educations with their 
| immer earnings in the steel and auto
]raft questioned
liton
A bill has been proposed in the U.S. 
ouse of Representatives by Rep. Martin 
bo (D-Minnesota) which would rescind 
e $4,000,000 fiscal year 1983 appropriation 
ir continuing the Selective Service draft 
stration program.
Those who agree may wish to contact 
eir own Representative to suggest consorship and support.
Prof. Thomas M. Kerr 
GSIA
industries. (Granted, their universities were 
not as expensive as this one). If you work in 
a union shop, the pay scale (including the 
lower rungs) are negotiated by your union. 
If you earn more than minimun wage, you 
owe them your gratitude.
As politicians like Mr. Holste are fond of 
saying There is no such thing as a free 
lunch. People who reap the benefits of 
unions should in turn support them, Talk 
about freedom to choose whether or not to 
support the organization whose benefits you 
enjoy is as patently foolish as talk about 
freedom to choose whether or not to cheat 
the welfare system rob a jewelry store, or 
swindle old ladies Social Security checks.
The proposed Right to Freeload legis
lation will cause animosity among workers 
at a time when this country can ill afford it 
What we need most is cooperation among 
management, production staff, researchers, 
engineers, designers, and sales people. One 
reason Japanese management methods are 
so successful is because they encourage 
cooporation.
John E. Snyder
Midani objects to fibers editorial
Editor:
Statement to the Faculty and Students in 
the Department of Art:
An editorial which appeared in the Tar
tan of March 8,1983 is simply full of misin
formation. Statements and actions 
attributed to me are not the result of any 
direct or indirect discussions that I have had 
with students or members of the Tartan 
staff. As I indicated to one student last week 
there are issues that are being debated cur
rently and over the last two years in the
Department of Art: namely, in the Depart
ments Faculty Advisory Committee and in 
discussion between the Dean and Depart
ment Head; issues of a long-range nature 
aimed at intensifying certain aspects of the 
curriculum and to provide the students with 
opportunities to enjoy other educational 
resources in the University. None of the ref
erences to a pending decision in the Tartan 
are correct. To wit
1. The canvas of studies in the Depart
ment of Art is not shrinking. Over the last
Students gain from unions
Editor:
I notice with some disgust that the Right 
to Work (for Less) crowd is again trying to 
foist upon the students of Pennsylvania a 
law that is supposed to protect them from 
the bogeyman of compulsory unionism. 
This was thrashed out in the Tartan once 
before, about a year ago. I refer persons inter
ested in the details of that debate to the issues 
from January 26,1982 through February 23, 
1982.
The arguments that some of us made then 
against the bill that has now been reincar
nated as H.B. 175 still stand. Students do 
indeed benefit from union protection and 
support in wage rates, working conditions,
Oppose tuition hike
By Nate Solano
Okay, lets get serious for a second. Tues> March 15, at 4 p.m. in the Wherrett 
m, there , is going to be a discussion 
deeming the future of tuition at CMU. 
The pretense is to gain information from the campus commun
ity prior to their tuition increase 
recommendation. I expect it 
tum into an argument over why tuition 
go up and why it shouldnt, neverless it would be nice if you could attend. 
or a while back there we had them 
leving we were pretty violently opposed 
these tuition increases in the face of a declineconomy (unless, of course, you play the 
k market) and it would be a shame to 
that. And heres the real catcher  there
V be solid food there!
1 OW is the time for all good students to
come to the aid of their minority whips. 
When was the last time you had a good slug 
of Red Pop. There is a specter haunting 
Europe. Aauugh ... Back to the fortress my 
pretties. I trust our Trustees had a good time 
at their spring meeting in Greenbrier, West 
Virginia, without any troublesome 
students.
Im really strapped for time this week so 
Ill just say I hope all those students going to 
Florida for spring break have a good time. 
As for those of you who arent, be comforted 
in the fact youre a lot like me (dr if thats no 
comfort, just cry yourselves to sleep).
As always I will be in the office on Wed
nesday from 4:30 to 6 and Thursday from 7 
to 9 (both in the p.m.). My home phone is 
687-6404.
Thank you for voting last week.
NEXT WEEK: No Tartan.
and grievance systems. Unions have to fight 
for those things even for student workers; 
otherwise employers could just fire union 
employees during the summer and hire stu
dents at a lower wage and proceed to ignore 
the latters safety and working conditions. 
Hence it is hardly unfair to require students 
to pay union dues for the three months they 
are working.
The nice-sounding right to work 
amounts to the right to freeload. It is unions, 
and not the corporate defenders of 
workers who fund the Right to Work com
mittees, who have been pushing for political 
and economic programs to reduce unem
ployment. I hope that the students at CMU 
will not be fooled this year, and that the 
Senate will not repeat last years mistake of 
endorsing this bill.
Solidarity forever, 
Daniel M. Rosenblum 
School of Urban and Public Affairs
three years the Department added three pro
grams; namely, Illustration, Video, and 
Computer Art.
2. The question erf whether or not the 
administration is phasing out the Depart
ment of Art is ludicrous and mendacious.
3. The renewal erf Diane Samuel s 
appointment has been decided since Janu
ary and there was no need for a meeting or 
discussion on this issue.
4. Curricular discussions are conducted by 
faculty and there is no attempt on my part to 
make decision on their behalf.
5. I am unaware erf a specific degree pro
gram other than art in the Department.
6. At no time was there a decision toward 
the removal of the Illustration program.
7. The Friday Meeting, which was post
poned because of a conflict in individual 
schedules, was not intended to make a deci
sion on faculty or programs, but simply to 
discuss long-range issues.
From the thickets of rumors and innuen
does that appeared in the Tartan editor ial I 
invite all members of the Department erf Art 
community to participate in the discussions 
to make their positions clear to me in writ
ing or individual meetings. I have no inten
tion of changing my long-standing open 
door policy and I hope we can develop a 
climate free from self-interest or personal 
anguish to conduct an intellectual, scho
larly, and aesthetically sensitive discussion 
with one goal in mind: the strength of the 
Department.
Akram Midani 
Dean, CFAPower debate analyzed
By Chris Johnston
A debate that has been generating a lot of 
halitosic steam lately is the question of what 
campus organization has more power, the 
Student Senate or the student newspaper.
t's take a locrfc at the psos and 
|cons of these organizations andi 
see whether I am justified, all 
I biases aside, in saying that the 
newspaper is the more influential of the 
two.
The Senate has one major power that 
feeds the voracious egos of its members: the 
power of the purse. It decides what organiza
tions will get how much money in their
budgets. They tend to assert this right in a 
rather snotty manner. For instance, the 
Scotch n Soda incident is a fine example of 
how an organization can be bullied by 
Senate. Otherwise, the student government 
has little power other than figurehead 
status.
What I mean by figurehead is that it looks 
' real cute if the Senate adopts a resolution to 
condemn something the administration is 
doing, (something that the Senate probably 
caiVt do anything about^tnyway, but can at 
least squeal like a stuck pig over). Or if a 
local or national newspaper is looking for 
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMarch 15,1983
Senate handles money, but newspaper more effective
continued from page 3
comment on a relevent issue, they can quote 
a senator and make it seem as if the whole 
school holds the opinion that that Senator 
voices.
This causes Senate to do the only thing 
that they can do to gain the confidence of 
their constituency, play a game that I call 
create the issue. This follows the mental
ity erf lets get radical and have a real fun 
time like our parents did in the sixties. For 
instance, they can hold a real neato rally to 
protest tuition and then sit up on an elevated 
platform and smile demurely at their new
found flock of righteously enraged sheep.
The newspaper, on the other hand, has
the role of commenting on situations that 
are of relevence, or at least what they per
ceive as relevence, and reporting the news as 
accurately as they can. This doesnt always 
happen, unfortunately, but misinterpreta
tion of the facts is usually done out of ignor
ance, rather than malicious intent. I myself 
am guilty of making this mistake, and there 
isnt a lot that can be done about it after the 
paper goes to press. In this sense, the paper 
has a lot more power, and a better chance to 
abuse it.
One ugly child of a college newspaper 
such as The Tartan is the columnist, who 
expresses his/her opinion whether it is 
wanted or not, i.e. what youre reading right
now. Sometimes these columns are helpful, 
sometimes theyre not. Some columnists try 
to be humorous through what they see as 
biting satire or picking on those common, 
annoying things that we all experience (so 
they dont step on anybodys toes). In The 
Tartan, Im sorry to say, these columns more 
often miss the humor button. Another type 
of column is the social outrage column, e.g.
Dr. Cyert, youre a-----------(fill in the blank)
and your mother too. These tend to come 
across as extremely sophomoric and monot
onous or so ludicrous that the reader at least 
finds something funny in op/ed.
In reality, the newspaper is probably a 
more powerful tool of the Hitleresque stu
dent who wants to begin his/her rise to 
power. This is not saying much at all, since 
only 18% of the student body bothered to 
turn out last week to vote, and a majority 0f 
these people probably just happened to t* 
walking past the desk in Skibo at the right
time. At least at CMU, your votereally
counts. (By the way, this poor figure isn't so 
bad compared to other schools. NYUs stu 
dent elections netted a total of 37 votes from 
its freshmen class which numbers around 
ten thousand).
So if you are really looking for something 
to put on your resume, a student govern
ment position might look nice, but a news
paper job is probably the better choice.M*A*S*H trivia quiz tests memories of fans
By JOE ijrUARINO
Special to the Tartan
Even though M*A*S*H has ended, many 
of us will continue to talk about this great 
series for a long time to come. The charac
ters, the themes erf various shows, the crazy 
antics, favorite shows  all comprise a 
treasure chest full of M*A*S*H memories. 
To prod those cobwebs and aid in recalling 
some erf those fine episodes, good trivia ques
tions just might do the trick. If you have 
some interesting M*A*S*H trivia write in 
and inform me. Here goes!
1. Where is Hawkeye from?
2. Who gave Hawkeye his nickname 
and where did this person get it?
3. What is Frank Bums wifes name?
4. Who wrote the theme to M*A*S*H 
(the series)?
5. Which came first, second, third and 
when: the book, the series and the
movie?
6. What is Radars full name?
7. Name the original eight cast 
members and their real names. Name 
any replacements, their real names, 
and whom they replaced.
8. Did either colonel ever agree to give 
Klinger a Section 8 psycho-discharge? 
If so, what were the conditions?
9. Whats B.J.s wifes name?
10. What does B.J. stand for? Where 
did the name come from?
Answers
1. Crabapple Cove, Maine.
2. His father got Hawkeye from the book, 
The Last of the Mohicans by James Fenimore Cooper.
5. Louise.
4. Johnny Mandel.
5. The book, 1968; the movie, 1970; the ser
ies, 1972.
6. Walter Eugene OReilly.
7. Liet. Col. Henry Blake (McLean Steven
son), Major Frank Bums (Larry Linville), 
Major Margaret Hot Lips Houlihan 
(Loretta Swit), Captain Benjamin Franklin 
Hawkeye Pierce (Alan Alda), Captain 
Trapper. John McIntyre (Wayne Rogers), 
Corporal Walter Eugene Radar OReilly 
(Gary Burghoff), Corporal Maxwell Klinger 
(Jamie Farr). Replacements: Col. Sherman 
T. Potter (Harry Morgan) for Blake, Major 
Charles Emerson Winchester III (David 
Ogden Stems) for Bums, Captain B.J. Hunnicut (Mike Farrell) for McIntyre.
8. Col. Potter agreed to give Klinger a Sec 
tion 8. On a holiday in Korea  the temper 
ature was above 100F  Klinger entered 
Potters office wearing rubber body suit (for 
losing weight) and full-length genuine 
mink coat. Potter said if Klinger could stay 
in that get up for 24 hours, hed give him a 
Section 8. Klinger only made it 23 hours.
9. Peg.
10. Anything you want it to, said B.J., "1 
was named after my mother, Bea, and my 
father, Jay.
PREPARE FORMCAT  LSAT *GM AT SAT-DAT-GRE-CPA
Permanent Genters open days, evenings and weekends.
Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.Complete TEST-n-TAPI^Mfacilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.Voluminous home-study materials constantly updated by researchers expert in their field. 
Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX * NDB  NLE
Call Days Eve* & Werkend;y-H Essex House LI 2
Corners Center, Negley & Baurr
EDUCATIONAL CENTER 
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SWCE 1938
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
661-2772
f.
I plan on living a long 
and healthy life, so I get 
regular cancer checkups. 
Call or write your local 
unit of the American 
Cancer Society for a free 
pamphlet on their new 
cancer checkup 
guidelines. Because if 
you're like me, you want 
to live long enough to 
do it all.
American Cancer Society
This space contributed as a public service.
CMU HILLELCLUB ELECTIONS
We need your help to make next year special. Please 
come to a FREE Matzo Brie Brunch on Sunday, April 
3 at 11:00 a.m. in the Hillel House  133 Margaret 
Morrison. Please call and let us know if you are 
coming so we know how much food to prepare. 578- 
5991 or 578-5989.
Attention:Hie Tartan will not publish again until April 5. Have a nice break.We will.
Want to make your own seder?
Want some help in obtaining supplies? Ritual objects? Haggadot? 
Want to bring a small group over for an informal Passover workshop?
. . . OR  . 
feel free to join us at Bnai Brith HiUels Community Passover Seder! 
MONDAY, MARCH 28 and TUESDAY, MARCH 29
at 7 p.m. 
Both here at HilleL '
Reservations must be made and paid for by FRIDA Y, MARCH 1&
Call 621-8875 
WISHING YOU A 
JOYOUS PASSOVER

---------------------------------------------------

March 15, 1983The TartanPage 5
Survey yields suggestions for Student Union
\ccording to a small sample of CMU 
students, an auditorium and lounge space 
are the most important things to have in a
student union.
Only 17 students responded to the survey 
which' was printed in Tlie Tartan three 
weeks ago. Several suggestions were made, 
however, concerning any future student 
union.
The questions and the most common 
answers follow. The number of people 
giving each answer is in parentheses.
What do you like about Skibo as it is now? 
Banking machines (4), gray matter (4), 
nothing (4), its location (3), availability of 
food service (3), office space (2), Entropy (2).
The following received one mention 
each: the ballroom, Presidents Dining 
Room, information desk, and video games.
What do you dislike about Skibo? lack of 
lounge space (6), food service (5), 
appearance of building (5), gray matter (3), 
no meeting space (2), poor maintenance (2).
Receiving one mention each are 
everything, size, the Highlander room, the 
faculty dining room, and the buildings 
location.
Would you like to remodel Skibo, build a 
new student union, or leave things as they 
are? Build a new union (10), remodel Skibo 
(6), leave the building as it is (1).
What would you like to see built into a 
future student union? Auditorium or theater 
(11), lounges (8), office and meeting space (6), 
a TV room (5), games room (5), a bar (4), 
bowling alleys (2), Entropy (2), art and 
book stores (2).
Each of the following received one 
menuon: wall to wall carpetting, juke box, 
ballroom, raquetball, barber shop, record 
store, computer repair shop, bank, dry 
cleaners, art gallery, and a night club.
What dont you want in a future student 
union? Faculty lounge (4), food service (4), 
administadon (2).
The following received one mention 
each: another rec room, flashy things,
18% turn out to vote; Solano re-elected
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Results of the Student Senate elections, 
held last Wednesday and Thursday, have 
been tabulated.
Nate Solano was re-elected last week as 
president of the student government. Solano 
got 66.4% of the votes. Nina Thanjan came 
in second with 23.4% of the votes and Todd 
Rieman got 7.65% of the votes. Approxi
mately 18% of the student population, 941 
people, turned out to vote.
In CIT, Alexandra Kavoulakis, Elizabeth 
Fox, Becky Sikora, Jonathan Maiman, and 
Chris Dunne were elected to the senate seats. 
The MGS senate seats were filled by Dave 
Goldstein, Chuck Stobbie, Michael Bett, 
and Bob Aarhus.
Pauline Kramer and Mary Ann Sacco 
won the H&SS senate seats. In CFA, Jack 
Scheffler, Sondra Elson, Tim Hegadom, 
John Falcone, and Joe Toth were elected. In 
AMS, Kathy Garcia won the senate seat.
Solanos dog, Max, received three votes.
Photo by Steve Winawer
Students and Dean Cox count last weeks election results. Nate Solano was re-elected as 
Student Government President
anything academic, computers, a gym, 
meeting rooms, and the gray matter.
Is Skibo a good site for a student union? 
Yes (13), no (3), no answer (1). Alternate sites 
suggested were Tech Field and the comer of 
Forbes and Devon (near Beta Theta Pi).
How much do you think a new student 
union would cost? $2 million (3), $4 to 6 
million (1), $8 million (1), $10 million (2), 
$20 million (2), dont know (8).
How do you think a new student union 
could be paid fen? Alumni (9), profits and 
tuition (7), activities fee (5), endowment (3), 
trust funds (3), money from ITC project (2), 
loans (2).
The following received one mention 
each: Slush funds, Cyerts pocket, the 
capital budget, fundraisers/Carnival, and 
by cancelling the new gym.
How much extra in tuition per year 
would you be willing to pay for a new 
student union? none (6), $30 (1), $50 (1), $100 
(1), $150 (1), $200 (2), $300(1), $400 (1), $500 
(1), $1200(1), $2500(1).
CMU negotiates for 
a new type of housing
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
CMU is presently negotiating with the 
owner erf an apartment building on 
Dithridge Street in Oakland to purchase the 
complex to provide more housing. Plans for 
this tenement are novel; according to Oscar 
Mayer, I lead of Auxiliary Services, this 
building will be a co-op where parents pur
chase the living unit as an investment, with 
the dividends benefiting the students. The 
purchase is tax deductible.
The building, constructed around the 
same time as Morewood Gardens (1920s or 
continued on page 7
Carnegie -MellonUniversity
Emergency Medical Squad
Wed. Mar. 15-7 p.m. in Rm. 401 Hamerschlag Hall
A Student Senate 
Funded Organization
All New Members Welcome 
Monthly Business Meeting

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMarch 15,1983
Van Horn speaks to House of Reps on computers
'a LAURA GOLOWICH
Tartan Staffwriter
On February 16, Provost Richard Van 
Horn gave an address before the Committee 
on Science and Technology at the House of 
Representatives, requesting $200 million in 
federal funding to universities for computer 
equipment.
According to Van Horn, he and represen
tatives from other colleges and associations 
around the country had been asked by the 
committee to attend the hearing. The hear
ing was conducted for a bill called the 
National Engineering and Science Person
nel Act of 1983, which proposes setting up 
funding that colleges and universities could 
apply for in the form of grants for computer 
equipment.
In his presentation to Congress, Van 
Horn stressed the need for federal funding. 
Universities, regardless of their level of 
commitment, he said, are unable to gener
ate all the capital required [for computing 
equipment]. Even worse, they may not try .
Although he suggested $200 million in 
federal matching grants, Van Horn said, the 
bill will probably provide, more like 50
million in funding. In this case, he said, 
CMU may get two or three million if we 
submit a good proposal. He added that 
Congress should make a decision on the bill 
within a month.
Discussing CMUs own computer ven
ture, Van Horn said the university will 
probably spend in excess of $20 million for 
equipment over the next five years. The 
actual cost, he noted, may be less if CMU 
receives discounts from vendors such as IBM 
or Apple.
The plan, said Van Horn, is to continue 
to upgrade the computer facilities at CMU. 
Next fall, he said, the university may obtain 
as many as 200 new personal computers. 
Other plans include taking EMACS and 
Scribe, the text-processing systems, off the 
DEC 20s and onto the smaller machines.
By 1986, Van Horn said, there should be 
1000 to 2000 personal computers on cam
pus. At that time, he added, the administra
tion will make decisions such as whether the 
computers should be in clusters in the 
dorms or each student should have his own 
computer. This decision, he said, depends 
primarily on the price. If the computers are
relatively inexpensive, such as $1000 each, 
he noted, then they will probably decide to 
provide one for every student
The building beside Warner Hall, accord
ing to Van Horn, will house all the univer
sity computing activities with the exception 
of the computer science department and
Robotics, and will be completed by the 
summer. It will hold a computing center 
and a computer store where students can 
purchase IBM personal computers at a dis
count. The building will also include the 
CMU-IBM project Administrative Data 
Processing and computer repair facilities.
'84-85 tuition to be discussed today
A meeting to discuss proposed tuition 
rates for the 1984-85 school year will be held 
this afternoon at 4:00 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room. The campus community is invited 
to participate.
The tuition committee, composed of stu
dents, faculty, parents, and administrators, 
is considering a 10 to 12 percent increase in 
tuition. The committees recommendations 
are due April 1, 1983. President Richard 
Cyert will review the report and make 
recommendations to the Universitys trus
tees. The trustees establish tuition for the 
1984-85 year.
Charts indicating the sources and uses of 
funds in the total 1982-83 University budget
ONIK0'$ moso
rt\p'e
$5.00 minimum order
SATELLITE HOUSING RESIDENTS AND COMMUTERS DO NOT RECEIVE CAMPUS MAIL
Currently, 1500 of the 4000 undergraduate students do not receive campus mail. Due to 
this communication gap, administrative correspondences, many important departmental 
notices and information concerning Student Activities are not received in a timely fashion. 
The Student Dormitory Council is presently working to obtain campus mail for satellite 
housing residents and commuters. In order to better serve this segment of the university 
community, we need to know this groups preferences. Please complete this survey and return 
it to SDC c/o Skibo Information Desk via Campus Mail or in person. For additional 
information contact Joe Guariuo (x4806) or Jon Maiman (x4216).
Address __________________________________________________;" ________
If a campus mail facility is providedwhich would be located in Skibowould you use it?
Yes .  ____________ No____________:________________
Comments:
may be found in the briefing prepared by thi 
tuition committee. Tuition and fees gener
ate 29.8% and sponsored research 35.5% of all 
revenues. Endowment contributes 8.6%.
About 34.6% of the budget is used for aca
demic support, and 26.1% goes for research. 
Since 1972, endowment has decreased in 
importance while student aid and capital 
programs have increased as a share of uses. 
Capital support now? uses 8.5% of the 
budget, and student aid takes 6.3%
CMU tuition is about $100 below the aver
age of private Pennsylvania schools. It is 
about $1,100 below the average of the 20 
national private schools with whom CMU 
competes for students.
Fake article
By THE GREAT CANTINI and
Tartan Staff
On March 28, just in time for the end of 
Spring Break, the amazing Kid Kramer will 
return to CMU to present, live, her twenty 
first birthday. Kramer, who has been a semi 
professional writer for some time, is perhaps 
best remembered for her probing, incisive 
article on Mellon Institute, which is actually 
70 years old, for which she wras awarded the 
Golden Foot-in-the-Mouth award. She has 
also been nominated for the Billboard 
award for most creative election poster, 
though her mom insists that she was 
misquoted.
Besides her extensive writing credits, Kra 
mer is an avid tennis player, and boasts a 
backhand that Bjom Borg has described as 
rilly somethink, I tell yuu.
The rest of the audience, though, will 
wait eagerly to see how the Kid pulls off the 
big twenty-first year. But having seen her 
perform in the past, this reporter for one is 
sure that shell take CMU by storm.
The Tartan Staff and Friends say 
Happy Birthday, Pauline!
Allegheny Womens Center
jn mil patient medical clinic ottering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
* gynecological care362-2920 * '
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) Pittsburgh, PA 15213(412) 687-TEST
Roth i mtffi 1 kr open d*it> lot prrfMM) lf%h own trim ftMedic ji Center East Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 211 North WhiiiieM Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 1S2MAlleghenyWomen'sCenter
Surveyed by SDC
PREGNANT? Call ATA 
Let's talk about your options.
HOTUNE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 31 -4706 
908 Penn Avenue. Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 pf" 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
nHort\noevrC oM n'MtoeM\ 
U U e\f
a non-prof organization . _

---------------------------------------------------

Valve installed for sanitation
By PAULINE WEN
TVjrian /<*** A* *tor 
Its a backflow preventer for the mair> 
[city] waterline, clarified Douglas Philp, 
lector of design and construction. The 
question concerned the hole in the Cut next 
to Warner Hall, which has been causing 
problems for sports enthusiasts for the past
wo and one half weeks.
The installation of the valve is a result of a 
provision of the city building code. When 
CMU was inspected a few months ago, 
requirement was made by the City of Pitts
burgh to install the valve. The valve allows 
water to go in only one direction, which is 
into the CMU system.
CMU will try new housing
usRg dhiw pqo C type of unit were offering. Competition of
), accommodates seven or eight different other rent rates will determine cost of these
joom styles which range from an efficiency 
MP a larger unit. The contract should be 
finalized in about a year. Until then, current 
tenants will be served notice and CMU will 
succeed as the landlord.
Mayer said that if all rooms are not leased 
to students, Housing will term the remain
ing units as regular apartment facilities. 
Prices, according to Mayer, will be based 
on what we pay for the building. They will 
on what we perceive as an appropIriate market value and reasonable for the
co-ops. This is a real estate activity, said 
Mayer.
The building will house RAs. Students 
will not be obligated to subscribe to any 
contract meal prices since the co-ops include 
kitchen facilities.
Mayer sees this innovation as a remarkable 
ble opportunity, which will enhance the 
attractiveness and face value of CMU. He 
believes the program will be advantageous 
for Admissions as well because it has a hot 
mass appeal.
Photo by Clarke Simmons 
A valve to prevent the backflow of dty water is being installed next to Warner Hall.
This Desk Can Reach Mach 2.
Some desk jobs are 
more exciting than 
others.
As a Navy pilot 
or flight officer, your 
desk can be a sophis
ticated combination 
of supersonic jet air
craft and advanced elec 
But you can handle it. Because Navy 
flight training gives you the navigation, 
aerodynamics and other technical 
know-how you need.
In return, Navy aviation demands 
something of you as an officer: 
Leadership.
Your path to leadership starts with 
officer training that's among the most 
demanding in the military. Its intensive 
leadership and professional schooling 
combined with rigorous Navy flight 
training. And its all geared to prepare
you and other college r_______________
graduates for the 
unique challenge of 
Navy aviation. The 
program is tojugh but 
rewarding.
NAVY OPPORTUNITY W 21
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton. NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about becom
ing a member of the Naval Aviatin Team. (0Al
One important 
reward for Navy 
officers is decisionPlfcas* Print I
Address. 
Citv____.State.
. +C oHefie/ Ujttiyersij y
Year in College* 
AMajor/.Minor__
making authority.
In the air, and on the 
ground* you have 
management responsi
bility from the begin
ning. And your 
responsibility grows 
as you gain experience, 
o company can give you this kind of 
leadership responsibility this fast. And 
nothing beats the sheer excitement of 
Navy flying.
The salary is exciting, too. Right 
away, you'll earn about $18,300 a year. 
That's better than the average corpora
tion will pay you just out of college.
And with regular Navy promotions and 
other pay increases, your annual 
salary will soar to $31,100 after four 
years. That's on top of a full package 
of benefits and privileges.
Before you settle down to an earth_____________^ bound desk job, reach
for the sky Reach for 
the coupon. Find out 
what it takes to be . 
pa^t of the Naval V 
vtation Tfeam. You \ 
could have a desk t , 
that flies at twice the 
speed of sound.
U 
At'. Vi 
t .Zip..
.?G PA
Phone Number-(Ari'a Code IBest Tune to Caii *This is for general recruititient information You do not have to Ifurnish any of the information requested Of course, the more we |know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi tions for which you qualify. MG 9/82
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

ffff.
Page 8The TartanMarch 15, 1983
A Phi O provides bed services
By LAURA GOLOWICH
Tmrtan Staffwriter
Have A Phi O put you to bed, is the 
slogan for Alpha Phi Omegas latest fun
draising activity, The Great Tuck-In.
For a basic charge of one dollar, a group 
of A Phi O members will go to a students 
room, and tuck him or her into bed. For an 
additional cost, students can choose more 
lavish tuck-ins. Options include having A 
Phi O members sing them a lullaby, read a 
nursery rhyme or fairy tale, provide milk 
and cookies, or give them a back massage. 
Students can also request tuck-ins of their 
own creations, subject to A Phi O approval.
The Great Tuck-In will take place on
April 5,6, and 7, from the hours of 11 p.m. to 
1 a.m. each night. The service will be pro
vided for on-campus tuckees only, but 
anyone can send a tuck-in to a campus 
resident
Signups for tuck-ins will be held on 
March 29, 30, and 31. The tentative places 
and rimes are at Skibo from 11 a.m. to 2 
p.m., Doherty Hall from 35 p.m., Morewood Gardens cafeteria from 4:30 to 7:30 
p.m., and at Donner from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.
A Phi O members are optimistic about 
the project. Itll be a lot of fun, said Joe 
Guarino. They had a Come-to-Bed party 
[last year], added Gordon Lucht, so this is 
no big deal.
Summer renovationsSalads Plus will be expanded
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
Summer renovations erf Skibo and Morewood Gardens have been finalized, accord
ing to Head of Auxiliary Services Oscar 
Mayer.
Salads Plus will be extended into the Kil
tie Cafe at least one bay window section, and 
a staircase may be installed direcdy between 
Salads and the Grill.
In addition to its existing menu, Salads 
will accomodate a full serving area of hot 
meals. Breakfast is tentative; it may remain a 
la carte only in the Tartan Grill. The Salads 
enlargement is geared to more fully serve a la 
carte eaters since Morewood is set to return 
to a pay-one-price, all-you-can-eat facility.
One reason for doing this, said Mayer, 
is because the contract program is strong. 
There are three or four times as many people 
on contract now than three years ago. We 
know it cant continue indefinitely but we
have a fairly predictable base of incoming 
students.
Last summer A and B towers, and C and 
D towers were connected; this summer the 
school is planning to connect B and C to 
facilitate more an efficient exit should an 
emergency situation, such as a fire, arise. 
Mayer said theyre doing an entire Morewood renovation.
According to Tony Martin, director of 
housing, original plans included only the 
renovation of C tower this summer, and B 
next summer. However, with decreasing 
interest rates, It is worth our while not to 
postpone the work to next summer, said 
Martin.
After the approximately four million dol
lar project is completed, all rooms in A, B, C, 
and D towers will be prime. The rooms are 
being converted to primes due to high stu
dent demand for them, according to Martin. 
A room is classified as prime if it has a bath 
shared by five or fewer residents.
HAVE A PHI O PUT YOU TO BED
THE GREAT TUCK-IN
Sender: name 
Tuckee: name 
address 
Tentative day:
time
phone
phone
date
(Allow 15 minutes leeway.)
Basic Tuck-In Rate.........................................................$1.00
Additional Tuck-ln(s)
 give them milk and cookies (75$).................................................
 give them a back massage (75).................................................
 read them a short nursery rhyme, fairy tale, etc. (25$)_____________
Total Tuck-In Price ..................................................$_____________
Deadline for Tuck-Ins: March 31, 1983 
Tuck-In Message (Optional)_________
OKed by A Phi Q name
Another A Phi O Service
GS/A Dean Kaplan honored
Robert S. Kaplan, dean of CMUs Gradu
ate School of Industrial Administration 
(GSIA), has been named the 1983 Distin
guished International Lecturer by the Amer
ican Accounting Association (AAA).
Beginning in May, Kaplan will tour 
northern Europe for approximately six 
weeks. His itinerary includes universities in : 
Ireland, England, Scotland, Belgium, 
Sweden, Switzerland, the Netherlands and 
Austria. The program is supported by 
grants from Exxon and CPC International, 
Inc.
Topics on which Kaplan will lecture are: 
Manufacturing Strategy: The New ChaK
lenge for Accounting and Business School 
Research and Application of Quantita
tive Models for Cost and Managerial 
Accounting.
At the conclusion of the tour, Kaplan will 
take a one-year sabbatical at Harvard Uni 
versitys Business School.
Kaplan, who has been dean of GSIA for 
the past six years, is an active member of the 
AAA, and will deliver a plenary address at 
the national meeting in August on Future 
Directions in Managerial Accounting. He 
recently completed a textbook titled 
Advanced Management Accounting, 
published by Prenrice-Hall.
Summer
Scholarships$125,000
available!
Be a part of the Chautauqua experience this summer. Study and perform 
music, art, dance or theatre with the finest professionals in each specialty. 
After studies you'll enjoy concerts, opera, popular entertainers, plays and 
all the fun a lakeside resort implies.
The Chautauqua Summer Schools of Fine and Performing Arts provide 
full term programs of intensive study with professionals such as Nathan 
Gottschalk in music (two levels of orchestra; voice and piano), jean-Pierre 
Bonnefous in dance, Michael Kahn in theatre and Robert Gilson in art. 
Supplemental Master Classes provide additional training with outstanding 
visiting artists.
FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA AUDITIONS
CHAUTAUQUA SCHOOL OF MUSIC 
APRIL 8, 1983  1:00-5:00 PM 
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS BLDG. ROOM 103 
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
Chautauqua Institution 1553 Colonnade Bldg. Chautauqua, NY 14722
ApplyNow!
Festival
AN AMEMCAN tWSTlTuTlON 
1983 Summer Scholarships
Awarded by application and audition
Nbmp
Arirlrvc*. --------------
Gty/StateZip------------
Chautauqua Institution 1553 Colonnade Bldg. Chautauqua, NY 14722

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Bishop says disarmament is the moral choice
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
What would you do if you were a clergy
man and a member of your congregation 
came to you worried aboi^t being part of the 
destruction of the earth?
When his conscience was confronted in 
this matter, the Most Reverend L.T. Matthiesen, Bishop of Amarillo, Texas, called 
upon employees of the Pantex nuclear war
head assembly plant to search their con
sciences and to consider quitting. Pantex, 
said Matthiesen, is the final assembly point 
for all nuclear warheads in the United 
States. Workers at Pantex also dismantle 
nuclear weapons and conduct research and 
development in the area of chemical explo
sives. Matthiesen has heard reports that 
highly radioactive waste is stored there 
before it can be properly disposed of.
Sponsored by the University of Pitts
burgh Chaplains Association, Matthiesen 
spoke at David Lawrence Hall last Tuesday 
night on A Moral Dilemma: Nuclear Pro
liferation or Disarmament. After explain
ing his involvement in the Pentex issue, 
Matthiesen warned the audience against the 
psychic numbing which is common in 
our society.
We must remind ourselves we are stockThe Thetas "sit on it" again for money
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Associate Entertainment Editor
Look! Up in the sky! Is it a bird? Is it a 
plane? No! Its the Theta Xi pole-sitters! 
From April 11-19, members of Theta Xi 
fraternity and Kappa Alpha Theta sorority 
will sit on a platform on top of a forty-foot 
telephone pole to raise money to fight mul
tiple sclerosis.
According to John Zappa of Theta Xi, 
we didnt want to do die pole-sitting again 
this year. Last year it was a novel idea, and 
this year we were looking for another novel 
idea. But the pole-sitting was a success last 
year, so were doing it again.
The Thetas, male and female, will raise 
money in a number of ways. First, they will 
go to businesses and individuals with pledge 
sheets; the sponsor pledges so much money 
for every hour spent on the pole. Last year, 
says Zappa, one brother raised $1000 alone, 
by seeking pledges at Morewood Gardens.
There will also be a chance for students to 
donate money at the base of the pole. Last 
year, people handing over their spare 
change at the bottom of the pole accounted 
for one-third of th $4200 that the Thetas 
raised. This year, Zappa says, they not only 
hope to break last years figure, but expect 
that base contributions will be a bigger part
Muller will bring Vietnam to CMU
Tomorrow evening at 8 p.m., the AB Lec
tures and Special Events Committee brings 
to the CMU campus the Vietnam Verdict 
lecture-film presentation. Robert Muller, 
executive director of the Vietnam Veterans 
of America, will examine the magnitude 
and implications of the Vietnam War. 
Through his lecture and the documentary 
film Heroes, you will relive the experien
ces of a Vietnam veteran who fought the 
war, and confront the moral and political 
questions the Vietnam war and the nuclear 
arms race has forced us to ask.
Robert Muller is well-known to many
Americans as a result of his appearances on 
numerous television talk shows including 
the Today Show, Good Morning America, 
The Last Word, Phil Donahue, Nightline, 
and the MacNeil/Lehrer Report. In 1971 he 
was chosen by Time magazine as one of the 
fifty most promising future national leaders; 
he has continued since then to fulfill that 
promise.
Tomorrow night he will continue to ful
fill that promise in the Skibo Ballroom.
of it.
To achieve this, they intend to put a real 
tent at the base of the pole, and hire an 
entertainer  a guitarist, some singers, 
something that will get attention  to lure 
people into the tent. In addition, they hope 
to generate more publicity about the event 
this year, including selling a T-shirt sport
ing the motto, Its better on top.
The fund-raiser presents many problems. 
Though Bell Telephone provides the pole 
and puts it up, Theta Xi brother Rafe Camarota is designing and building the platform 
that goes on top. Also, says Zappa, its 
really tough finding a ladder long enough 
to reach the top. Insurance must be pro
vided, not only against falling, but against 
thunderstorms, and creosote bums from the 
pole.
The university has been very helpful, 
Zappa says, in allowing the Bell truck to 
drive onto the cut, in arranging the insu
rance through the university lawyer, and at 
every stage of the planning.
So if youre walking past the tennis courts 
in April, and you see a lot of husde and 
busde going on, its not another physical 
plant excavation into the cut. Its just Theta 
Xi and Kappa Alpha Theta getting high 
together.
piling weapons, Matthiesen said. We have 
the power to destroy one million Hiroshi - 
mas. Not only can we destroy art, music, 
science, culture, and our social fabric, but 
the destruction of the ozone layer may render 
this planet sterile and uninhabitable. The 
most urgent problem we are confronted 
with is the threat of extinction.
Matthiesen stated that defense is the big
gest manufacturing industry in the United 
States; the fastest growing sector in the U.S. 
economy. He then discussed the policy of 
the Roman Catholic Church. Although it 
has always supported the nation and its 
defense policies, that is changing, mainly 
because many individuals within the 
church are becoming convinced that the 
nuclear nations have been lured by techno
logical developments into untenable 
situations.
Matthiesen fears that seeing no clear w'ay 
out of the danger, we will simply continue 
what were doing. It seems policies are 
based on the supposition it could never 
happen, but, he continued, we are plan
ning for World War III; even planning to 
survive it. Wre have decided that it is okay to 
use violence to protect our way of life. We are 
willing to destroy the earth itself.
WTiat can we do as individuals? What can 
we urge our leaders to do? Matthiesen used 
himself as a partial answer: If a bishop can 
find the strength to say no, it can be done. I 
dont see how to say anything else. In addi
tion, he said, We can pray. If we ever 
needed Gods guidance, it is now. Pray for 
strength; the strength Jesus Christ had when 
he faced annihilation on the cross.
In conclusion, Matthiesen advised we 
cant remain silent, for to remain silent is to 
give assent. There will be hope for us and for 
the world when we stop demonizing each 
other; when we learn to negotiate.
Robot-town" hosts exposition
Robert Muller, executive director of the Vietnam Veterans of America, will speak in the Ballrm tomorrow nigh at 8 oclock. The veteran, pictured above in a wheelchair, has 
appeared on the Today Show, Good Morning America, and the McNeil/Lehrer Report, to 
name a few.
The Pittsburgh area is on the move as one 
of the nations leaders in technology, 
research and new product design.
To emphasize that fact, Mayor Richard S. 
Caliguiri has proclaimed May 15 to 21 as 
International Trade and Technology Week 
in the City of Pittsburgh.
The week will focus attention on the 
Second Annual Technology/Inpex Show. 
It is the nations only combined exhibit of 
technology, inventions and new product 
concepts. The U.S. Department of Com
merce has designated the show as an interna
tional trade fair.
Included in the list of exhibitors are: 
Hewlett-Packard, The Electric Power 
Research Institute, Battelle Memorial Insti
tute, American Society for Metal*. and 
NASA.
Seminars are scheduled to run in conjunc
tion with Technology Inpex. This pro
gram is structured for individuals or 
companies involved in technology, new 
products or innovation. Topics to be 
covered include industrial robotics, new 
product development, technology market
ing, venture capital, personal computers 
and computer-aided design and 
manufacturing.
Pittsburgh was chosen as the show site 
because it now ranks third in the United 
States in the concentration of Foi 11me 500 
headquarters. It also ranks third in research, 
development and technology activities with 
more than 170 labs in the metropolitan area. 
The region is noted for research in nuclear 
technology, and metals and glass fiber tech
nologies. Recognition in fields of computer 
software, robotics, computer graphics, and 
biomedical research is growing.
Visitors from across the nation and 
abroad will exhibit and attend. The show
will be held at the Greater Pittsburgh Expo 
Mart, May 17-21.
For more information on the 1983 Tech
nology/Inpex New Product Expo (Tech
nology/Inpex) contact: Gary F. Brown, 
Director, Technology/Inpex, 701 Smithfield Street, Suite 400, Pittsburgh, PA 15222, 
(412) 288-1344.
Spring Fling  new CMU tradition
By DOUG GRAUEL
Tartan Staffwriter
On April 15, the H&SS Spring Fling, feat
uring George Gee and his Make Believe Ball
room Orchestra, will swing Carnegie Hall 
into action. WTiile 1983 is only the fourth 
year for the event, organizer Joseph E. 
Devine, director of the Academic Advisory 
Center, hopes thuit the Spring Fling will 
finally take its place beside Spring Carnival 
and the Beaux Arts Ball as a CMU tradition.
The first of the semi-formal dinnerdances took place five years ago. That was 
April, 1979, and the dance was held on the 
Gateway Clipper. It seemed to go well, 
said Devine. It was a unique event because 
nobody did anydiing like that independent 
of Spring Carnival or the Beaux Arts Ball.
But in 1980 the Spring Fling flopped. 
Hoping for a repeat performance of 79, the
dance was again scheduled for the Gateway 
Clipper. However, according to Devine, the 
novelty of holding the dance on water had 
worn off and ticket sales w ere so low that the 
event had to be called off.
Then 1981 proved to be a year when 
innovative planning and hard work paid 
off.  The George Gee phenomenon had hit 
campus at about the same time ... and so we
continued on pag* 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMarch 15, 1983
College students opt for the skyway) trek from Pittsburgh to Fort Laud
tional
travel
photo by John Stilwell
The Hill invited some quiet outdoor guitar-playing.
Ft. Lauderdale native relishes sun, sand, surf
Louise Crocoll read some of her poetry at 
Forbes Gallery last week, along with selec
tions of fiction by Jenny Hutton and poems 
by Anna Coleman and Chris Johnston. The 
plastic glove in Crocolls hand was part of a 
class assignment where students exchanged 
props as inspirations for poems. See p. 18 for 
review.
By SHARI B. OLEFSON
Special for the Tartan
Spring Break is a much awaited time of 
year. At a demanding University such as 
Camegie-Mellon, an academic break in the 
spring comes as terrific, much needed relief.
While some choose to spend 
these eight precious days exploring the swamp of Mississippi 
 -or awaiting the snow in Seven 
Springs, many
grand prize behind curtain #3: Spring 
Break in Fort Lauderdale. The sun, sand, 
surf, and saloons have made the dty an 
American College institution. As Fort 
Lauderdale native attempt to maintain their 
daily schedules, college students flock to the 
city for a wild week boosting the citys 
economy.
After a full years wait and the successful 
completion of a 22-hour highwray (or 3-hour
1RS TAX TIP
For Single Taxpayers
If you maintained a home for a 
parent,- child, or other relative, 
you may be able to file as Head of 
Household and pay less than 
filing as a single taxpayer.
A public service message from the Internai Revenue Service
Before last weeks cold snap,
FLYING 
THAT COSTS LESS 
THAN DRIVING.
NEW YORK/ NEWARKOFF PEAK$23/$35PEAK
FROM PITTSBURGH TO:PRICE
OFF PEAKPEAK
NORFOLK/VIRGINIA BEACH.$40$55
SYRACUSE$40$55
BURLINGTON$40$55
HARTFORD/SPRINGFIELD$40$55
WASHINGTON-DULLES INT'L.$40$55
WASHINGTON-NATIONAL$40$55
BALTIMORE$40$55
BUFFALO/NIAGARA FALLS$40$55
BOSTON$40$55
JACKSONVILLE$49$69
SARASOTA$69$99
MELBOURNE$69$99
WEST PALM BEACH$69$99
PEOPLExpress
FLY SMART
PEOPLE EXPRESS AIRLINES FOR RESERVATIONS. PHONE IN PITTSBURGH (412) 391-6910, IN WASHINGTON PA (412) 223-9476, OR CALL VOUR TRAVEL AGENT
erdale, CMU students would obviously like 
to maximize their utility for every fleeting 
moment of their stay in Fort Lauderdale. 
For this reason, most vacationing students 
would almost kill for a room reservation on 
the infamous Fort Lauderdale strip.
The Strip runs six blocks along the beach 
liukOusRg iu pPcR yy
r-o overseas
The Council on International EducaExchange, CIEE, the largest student 
organization in the U.S., is offering 
young people the opportunity to work over
seas this summer as volunteers on service 
projects aimed at helping local communi
ties. Free room and board help to keep par
ticipation costs minimal.
It met and surpassed all my expecta
tions, was the reaction of one participant in 
last years program, the first ever offered to 
Americans. Although work camps have 
been operating in many parts of the world 
for more than 30 years, they are sull a rela
tively new concept in the United States. 
They attract young people from all over the 
world, providing them with the chance to 
live and work together on a wide range of 
projects.
liukOusRg iu pPcR yWomen's Health Services *
Now.. .
Two Pregnancy 
Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Parkvale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
625 Stanwix Street 
12th FloorAllegheny Tower 
Pittsburgh, PA I5222 
(412) 562-I9I4
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call foi hours 3nd 
instructions. Confidential counseling available.
SUMMER CAMP STAFF 
RECRUITMENT DAY
SPONSORED BY 
THE AMERICAN CAMPING AS
SOCIATION r PITT STUDENT 
EMPLOYMENT
Camp Directors will be on Cam
pus to interview students.
WHEN: Thursday, March 17, 1983 
From 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.
WHERE: University of Pittsburgh 
Forbes Quadrangle 
(Near Hillman Library) 
Main Lobbv
Devine discusses Spring Fling's rises and falls
liukOusRg dhiw pPcR S
had him come into the Spring Fling picture
in 1981, Devine said. Also, in 1981 the 
dance was moved into Carnegie Music Hall, 
where it has taken place ever since.
George Gees popularity on campus now 
is uncontested, but in 1981 Devine was not 
sure that the band could carry the day 
singlehanded.
We knew ballroom music was popular 
to listen to, but we did not know whether 
students would actually dance or try to have
a good time listening and watching faculty 
dance. However, the event was a hit, with 
250 more tickets sold than was anticipated.
1982 repeated the use of the Music Hall 
for the dance, but this time enthusiasm and 
George Gee, not novelty, played the key role 
in making the Spring Fling a success.
H&SS Dean John Credne also feels that 
the Spring Fling is important as a school 
tradition. Crecine spent the 81-82 academic
year in England, but timed a campus visit
last year to coincide with the dance. In the 
past, Crecine has been involved with raffle 
prizes (one unclaimed prize in 1981 was
breakfast in bed served by the dean), but in
1982 the winnings were more practical; 
among the list was a $25 gift certificate to the 
Grand Concourse.
The outcome of this years Spring Fling 
is, of course, still a mystery. But if things go 
according to plan, H&SS should enjoy an 
annual event for many years to come.

---------------------------------------------------

preppy Handbook editor includes CMU in next book
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
In one word, please describe your school.
What is the favorite campus drink?
Is your student body homogeneous?
Would you consider 'the grades at your 
school to be inflated?
Our school has hit the big time. We are 
included in Lisa Birnbachs Guide to Col
leges; the above questions are included in a 
preliminary questionnaire. Bimbach, the 
editor of The Official Preppy Handbook 
and a 78 Brown graduate, is working on the 
present assignment with Maureen Salter.
According to Bimbach, this book is the 
first guide to place a higher priority on the 
non-academic side of college life. CMU is 
one of 200 schools to be visited by Bimbach 
and Salter.
I got the feeling from walking around 
campus that everyone is career-oriented; you 
have to know what you want to do, Salter 
said of The Professional Choice. She said that 
of the various 120 schools thus far visited, 
most have displayed similar trends. Salter 
says that ROTC is big; everybodys a busi
ness major and proud of it; everybody wants 
to make thirty thousand dollars and sports 
are big again as a type of rallying point.
Theres a lot of stress everywhere, accord
ing to Salter, but she thinks, interestingly, 
that Ivy League students may experience less
Correction
The headline and story of Mellon Insti
tuted incorrectly labelled its age as 75. The 
Institute was founded in 1913, which, sub
tracted from 1983, is 70. Mellon Institute 
celebrated its 70th birthday on March 1st. 
The writer admits that math is not her 
strong point.
stress than students at the lower-echelon 
schools because the latter are less assured of a 
job. She also mentioned that dating is expe
riencing a resurgence and many students are 
turning to the Greek way of life because 
there s really nothing else to do, says Salter. 
Youre either Greek or you work on the 
newspaper.
She has found that cocaine is chic and
popular among richer campuses; pot is con
sidered high schoolish; and beer is in 
because of economics. Southern schools 
still favor mixed drinks, upholding a long
standing generalization of the rich suthn 
guys and gals overlooking their 50-acre 
plantation and drawling to each other over 
their cool mint juleps. Virginity, expecially 
at the Bible Belt schools, is quite popular.
People tend to see school as more of an 
investment where a return  a good job  is 
highly expected and desired. Values are 
upside down, notes Salter. No ones out to 
get an education.
The Guide is published by Random 
House/Ballantine and due to hit the stands 
in the spring of 1984. See how CMU is 
described in one word.
ITC revealed slyly, says Arch, student
By JOHN SEITZ
Special for the Tartan
A university is a community which
actively fosters learning and provokes indi
vidual thought. A university is a forum
which allows students to explore their ideas 
in a creative environment stimulating continuous discourse 
 among varied colleges. This dis1, course is imperative in a world
of specialized disciplines. A university 
which does not take every opportunity to 
bring together and involve its professional 
faculty and students in the expression of a 
total university environment does a grave 
disservice to society.
Is Camegie-Mellon a University? The div
isions which separate the colleges upon this 
campus can only be attributed to an unfor
tunate relationship, past and present, with 
the administration in Warner Hall. Is this 
administration concerned with developing 
an academic community? This campus con
tains tremendous resources in people and 
information. Unfortunately, these diverse 
pools seldom meet to share important 
thoughts and ideas. Can the world today 
afford such indifference? It is time this 
administration reexamined their priorities
and started looking at their students and 
faculty.
The Department of Architecture at 
Camegie-Mellon is nationally recognized as 
a leader. One would assume this profes
sional resource would be eagerly sought by 
this administration. The academic com
munity could only benefit by the infusion of 
ideas, creative thought and professional 
expertise. The campus would become a 
place of pride and active interest for students 
and faculty, involved in the shaping of their 
learning environment. Why then has the 
administration chosen to ignore such 
aspects of the University?
What happened to Henry Hombostel, the 
original campus architect? His master plan 
recognized the purpose of a University and 
gave each school its place within the whole. 
He gave us an architecture sensitive to the 
past, aesthetics, and human occupancy. 
Today this unity has been lost in a smorgas
bord of development. It does not require 
great insight to recognize the many deficien
cies within recent campus construction. 
Unfortunately, Skibo and Warner Hall, as 
examples, are here to stay. They are useful 
only as instructions-instructions which 
must prevent similar future error.
The University administration seems to 
have learned from its mistakes. They have 
changed their tactics: they build quietly and 
quickly. When did you first hear of the new 
ITC building? Was it a rumor or the swing 
of the wrecking ball behind Warner Hall?
How can our administration build such a 
major addition to the campus community 
without seeking student and faculty input 
from the entire campus community? Is this 
a University? Is our goal a common goal?
Fun in Ft. Laud.
continued from page 10
(on ALA), between Las Olas and Sunrise 
Blvds. It is in this area the The Button, The 
Candy Store, New Wave Lounge, Ocean 
Mist, Penrods, and The Elbow Room are 
located. All of these establishments (except 
The Elbow Room) sponsor daily college 
events in honor of Spring Break, from wet 
T-shirt contests to beer chugging to teenieweenie-bikini contests. In addition, each fea
tures happy hours and live bands and 
usually has a cover charge.
Within only a few short blocks of the strip 
(South) is Bahia Cabana. Just behind Bahia 
continued on page 12
YELLOW OR WHITE
SAVE S10.00 OFF THE REGULAR PRICE OF YOUR ULTRIUM COLLEGE RING!
LIMITED TIME OFFER!WEDNESDAY MARCH 16-17 
AND BAKER HALL
THURSDAY CMU*
Ultriurrv is a registered trademark of Carnation Company for rings
$15 
DEPOSIT
HERFF JONESDivision ol Carnation Company
PROFESSOR 
EARL McCORMACK 
OF DAVIDSON 
UNIVERSITY
will present a lecture
Engineering 
Ethics
on Wednesday March 16
4 p.m. 
Wherrett Room 
Skibo
sponsored by CMUs Prograjn in Technology and Society

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 15, 1983
Investment Club evaluates past investments
By LEE SHEPARD
Tartan Staffwriter
At last weeks Investment dub meeting, 
several decisions were made regarding club 
investments. The clubs first investment, 
United Illuminating, has performed very 
well since its purchase in mid-November. A 
rise in the companys annual dividend and 
the recent decline in oil prices increased the 
price to 27%, up from the purchase price of 
25%. It was decided to place an order to sell 
the 50 shares at $28 per share, which would
continued from page 10
We had no plumbing or electricity and
slept in a bam, but I think that made us 
better as a group because we really had to 
work together and help each other, 
reported a volunteer who helped convert an 
old ham into a community room in 
Denmark.
Other projects included clearing an ava
lanche on the side erf a mountain in Switzer
land; performing farm chores at an 
anti-drug camp in Sweden; and house clean
ing at the Technical Institute at Gdansk, 
Poland.
Except for a modest program fee of $100, 
there is no cost other than the airfare  and 
even that expense may be reduced by special 
student and youth fares available through 
the Council.
Work camps, usually two, three, or four 
weeks in duration, are available in Belgium, 
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, and 
Switzerland. A knowledge of German is 
helpful for placements in Germany; lan
guage requirements apply in France and 
Spain. Volunteers must be at least 18 years 
old, except in Germany, which accepts 16-
provide a net profit, including commis
sions, of $136.38; a 10.5% nominal gain, 
31.4% annually. Warner Communications 
was purchased at $29 per share while simul
taneously selling a call option (giving some
body else the right to purchase the stock 
from the club at $30 per share) for $162.50, 
less commissions of $30.00. Since the stock 
closed below $30 on February 19, the option 
expired unexerdsed, giving a nomial real
ized gain of 4.48%, or 53.8% annually. The 
club does not have an obligation to sell the
year-olds. Application deadline is May 1,1983.
For more information on the program, 
write CIEE, PR-WC, 205 East 42nd Street,
continued from page 11
Cabana is the Best Dockside Patio Bar 
which overlooks the intracoastal waterway, 
has a pool, and is accessible by boat or car. A 
wide variety of beverages are offered, but 
Rum Runners are without a doubt the 
house specialty. Customers may also choose 
from a menu of finger foods which includes 
conch salad, buffalo chicken wings, shrimp, 
oysters, etc. Its a great place to relax alone or 
get rowdy with friends. There are several 
other bars in this same league, all accessi
ble by boat or car and great places to hang 
out day or night (some also have swim
ming pools).
Going one step further (more formal) is 
Septembers, or the ultimate, The Mai Kai. 
The Mai Kai features a drink menu divided 
into three sections: mild, medium, and 
strong. Drinks are a litde more expensive 
than many other places, but a lot more
stock anymore, so it was decided to write 
another call, a May option, again with a 
striking price of $30, at $2.50 per share, pro
viding $220 ($250 less $30 commissions) in 
revenue. If the option is exercised by the 
third week in May, the club will be obligated 
to sell the 100 shares of Warner Communi
cations at $30 per share, providing a net gain 
of $342.50, 11.6% nominally, 34.8%
annually.
Two new investments have also been 
approved: Data Products, a computer prinNew York, NY 10017, or phone (212) 661- 
1414; or 312 Sutter Street, San Francisco, CA 
94108, (415) 421-3473.
potent. (Dont waste time with the mild or 
medium. They taste great, but. . .) It is at 
The Mai Kai that Fort Lauderdale natives 
experience the famous Mai Kai time warp. 
On the opposite end of the spectrum (but 
an equal Fort Lauderdal favorite) is the Propellor Club. Located between ALA and the 
Swimming Hall of Fame, the Prop club is 
perhaps the most casual bar to be found in 
Fort Lauderdale. Offering beer and wine, 
an array of food that makes Oaklands Dirty 
Os look sanitized, and a jukebox full of 
Jimmy Buffet tunes, the Prop Club is a fine 
place to mellow out or raise hell.
After months of anticipation and hours of 
travel, those students who finally make it to 
sunny (hopefully) Fort Lauderdale can opt 
to spend those precious days of long-awaited 
Spring Break on the Strip, or they can dis
cover that theres life beyond the Strip and 
see Fort Lauderdale like a native.
ter manufacturer, and Anheuser-Busch, the 
brewery. An open order was placed to buy 
100 shares of Data Products at $17 per share 
The stock is currendy trading at $22 per 
share.
Anheuser-Busch is currently trading at 
67%, which is too expensive for the club. A 
decision was made instead to buy a call 
option that expires in June. This is the right 
to buy 100 shares of Anheuser-Busch stock at 
$65 per share. The option, however, may 
also be sold to somebody else without ever 
buying the stock. That call option will cost 
5% per share. The price of aii option such as 
this usually moves in line with the price of 
the stock, so a $5 increase in the stocks price 
will result in an approximate increase of $5
in the price of the option. In the case of 
Anheuser-Busch this would mean an 
increase from 66% to 71%, a 7.5% gain; but 
with the option it would mean an increase 
from $5 to $10, a 100% gain. Thus a $500 
investment would grow to $1000. This phe
nomenon is called leverage, putting up a 
small amount of money to control stock that 
is much more valuable. However, it works 
both ways. A drop in the price of the stock 
would result in a large loss, percentage-wise.
If the stock were to drop to a point where the 
option is worthless, the club would lose 
100% of its original investment. The ceiling 
and floor price were set so that if the option 
hits the ceiling of floor price before June, it 
will be sold. The selling ranges narrow as 
June approaches to lessen the degree of risk 
in holding the option.
Next Thursday, March 17, CMU presi
dent Richard Cyert will speak on corporate 
portfolio management in Skibo, Room 12at 
7:30 p.m. Anybody interested is invited to 
attend.
Travel overseas and do community work
Life beyond Ft. Laud/s "Strip"
WANTED: Prospective Manne Corps Pilots
Earn $760.80 A Month This Summer And 
A Guaranteed Seat At 
Flight School Waiting When You Graduate
If you qualify, we will guarantee you a seat at Flight School now, whether you are a 
beginning freshman or a graduating senior. As a Marine Officer and pilot you could earn 
a starting salary from $17,046.84 to $20,448.84. For more information see Captain Terry 
Lockard at Skibo Hall on Tuesday, March 15th from 10:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. or, call (412) 
644-2849/5819 anytime, collect. ___________________

---------------------------------------------------

Marcel extends mime 
to include all senses
By DIANE THODOS
Tartan Staffwriter
As the stage lights grow dim and the 
music begins the audience becomes quiet. It 
was as if at this moment we were told this is 
the theater, and know it isnt real. And yet 
we know the theater is able to 
jjF speak eloquently of things
Jr which transcend reality, which 
are larger than life. Such was the 
essence of Marcel Marceaus mime perfor
mance in his recent visit to Heinz Hall on 
March 2.
Marceau believes that the art of mime, 
halfway between dancing and theater, is a 
complete art in the sense that it tends 
towards an all-embracing definition of the 
human being. He also believes that 
through mime one can come closest to iden
tifying with people, objects, the very subtlest 
of feelings. And the ability to speak silently, 
the universal language of gestures makes 
the mime able to communicate to any 
audience of any language.
As a child Marceau used to imitate people 
and objects which caught his fancy. He was 
greatly inspired by the silent film comedians 
Buster Keaton, Harry Langdon, and Charlie 
Chaplin. As a little boy I sat entranced in 
movie houses he explains. It was then that 
I decided to become a mime.
At the age of 20 he became a student of a 
dramatic school in the Sarah Bernhardt 
Theater in Paris and began his professional 
career in 1946. The following year Marceau 
created BIP and by 1949 he had created his 
own mime company, the only one that 
existed in the world at the time.
Marceau had re-created interest in the 
theater of pantomime which had not been of 
the public interest since the death of the 
great mime Deburau in 1846. In 1949 Mar
ceaus company won the Deburau prize 
named after the master and after many 
theater performances Marceau made his first
appearance on TV in 1952.
Later in 1956 he won an emmy award as a 
performer on a IT program called Show 
of Shows and had his own TV special 
Meet Marcel Marceau; of course, a oneman performance. He has also had some 
exposure on film, in the movie First Class in 
which he plays all 17 actors involved in the 
film.
During the first half of the program Mar
cel performed style pantomimes; short 
satires about different people, their occupa
tions, and their situations. As a dice player 
Marcel rolls the die for his two imaginary 
companions. He is ecstatic when he wins, 
and then so depressed when he loses that he 
would shoot himself.
However remembering that he is holding 
a gun, he happily seizes the opportunity to 
win back all that he lost through different 
means. As a sculptor Marceau works a pro
digious mound of clay with such fervor that 
it is reduced to the size of a pinhead.
Sometimes the pantomimes developed 
into tragic or horrifying episodes which, 
despite the humor, end on a black note. As 
an angel Marceau navigates the skies until a 
storm grounds him with a broken wing. In 
the world on earth the angel is tempted into 
habits of drinking and women which 
finally lead him to acts of violence and des
truction. When the angel regains his ability 
to fly home to heaven he finds he cannot 
enjoy it anymore, feels misplaced, and is left 
spinning in the wind.
As a maskmaker Marceau puts a mask of 
exaggerated glee on his indifferent face. 
Presently the mask becomes stuck and in a 
remarkable scene the maskmakers whole 
being emits frustration, hopelessness, then 
terror, while his face is frozen into the shape 
of laughter.
The second half of the program involved 
pantomimes by the character BIP. Marceau 
describes BIP as the silent witness of the
Marcel Marceau in a mellow mood.
lives of men, struggling against one han
dicap or other, with joys and sorrows as their 
daily companions.
Like the wandering tramp Charlie Cha
plain, BIP finds himself in all manner of 
situations and places. When BIP travels on 
the train he finds no end to his problems 
caused by his heavy suitcase and a bathroom 
which seems to be eternally occupied.
When BIP calls a dating service he ends 
up with hundreds of dates knocking on his 
door, drinking his champagne, and 
demanding to dance with him.
In a brilliandy mimed scene BIP plays the 
dual personalities of David and Goliath 
with the help of a screen. A split-personality 
chase develops where the single person of 
Marceau runs around the screen being Goli
ath at one turn, then David the next.
Marceaus art is perhaps the most remar
kable when he is able to create the presence 
of another person through his own actions. 
BIP has a date with a literally giant invisible 
women who greedily snatches a glass of 
wine from the unassuming BIP, tosses it 
continued on page 17
Forbes features garish color, A frican scenes
are more amiable. They draw the viewer 
into the painting to try to understand the 
connection between Pauls intensely per
sonal images.
Roger Hughes paintings are based on 
his experiences while living in Africa. His 
expressive brush stroke and savannahderived palette are combined in relatively 
calm scenes of a man in a boat, and in 
pictures recalling death and revolution.
In one painting, a grinning child with a 
huge bowl on his head approaches the
Poet/Woodchopper reads
viewer. Orange and brown slashes of paint 
move around the boy toward the top of the 
painting. In a powerful work, dark, ghostiy, 
expressively painted images of three child
ren move toward an ominous black door.
The children, if not already dead, are 
moving toward death, symbolized by the 
small door of a hot, pink-orange stucco 
building. The scalloped trim of the roof, 
along the top of the painting pushes the 
cruel irony of innocent death further into 
the viewers mind. A revolutionary tension
is held inside another work showing African 
people riding up a diagonal, in a toy-like 
green bus. Below them are the doomed 
images of South African apartheid.
Hughess copper and slate sculpture out
lining South Africas border expresses the 
presence of a force for change. Hughes is 
also exhibiting a wall of his figure draw
ings, and a wall of collages involving the 
figure and landscape.
The show extends until Saturday, March 
18.
Dodd rides in to read Western poetry
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Wayne Dodd informed his audience last 
week his imagination is haunted by the 
spaces of the West. This is clearly reflected 
in his poetry, which is mostiy about fishing, 
chopping wood or just looking and remem
bering Ohio, Colorado and Oklahoma. 
Reading in a deep, strong voice, Dodd gave 
the impression of having come to Baker 
Hall 231 on horseback.
Dodd is a professor of English at Ohio 
University and the author of three volumes 
of poetry, a novel and a childrens book. In 
addition to writing and teaching, he edits 
The Ohio Review. Wednesday nights 
appearance was his first at CMU.
These ... was the first poem Dodd read. 
With the Absent, a consideration of the
passage of time, was next, followed by 
Driving the School Bus, Looking, Late 
at Night, Quantum (as in leap, he 
added for clarification) and November. 
Before reading Noodling, Dodd offered 
some background information. Noodling 
is the strange, perhaps mad practice of going 
into the water, seeking out fish and catching 
them with vour hands. The challenge is to 
get a really big fish. Sound like fun? Maybe 
not, for as the poem says:
The saw teeth slam into the 
flesh
of your forearm . . .
Your uncles arm is red-raw, 
like the skin of a scraped pig.
Dodd continued with Dannys Uncle, 
Fragments from a Story, The Morning 
Poem, And Yet, and two love poems,
August 3 and But Mosdy. He grew 
more personal, saying, Chopping wood 
has become an important activity in my life 
and keeps cropping up in poems.
The Man Who Writes Poems (and 
that, my friends, is all I am.) is an honest 
poem in which Dodd explains there is 
nothing magical about him:
I repeat words only 
as I learned them, merely guess
ing at
other lives, other meanings. 
Following it were Everywhere the 
Pacific (keep in mind that Bobo had var
ious tattoos), Why Do We Not See Snow
birds When There Is No Snow? And Give 
Someone, and Prologue to a Longer 
Story, a poem comprised of Dodds memo
ries of his father.
By SARAH G. RATCHYE
Special to the Tartan
The paintings of Sandy Paul and the 
drawings, paintings, and sculpture of Roger 
Hughes hang on Forbes Gallerys walls this
week.
The garish color and bizarre, 
enigmatic imagery in Pauls 
paintings evoke a strange emo
tional dissonance. The eye is not 
caretuily drawn from one part of a painting 
to another, but is arrested by each part. Each 
bold black oudine, stylized eye, mouth or 
hand, and heavily-textured brightly-colored 
area clamors for attention.
In Queenie Vogue, a large figure made 
UP of unattached, but recognizable, parts 
seems to strut or display itself above a darkly 
colored target. Small rectangles of painted 
canvas have  >een collaged on this painting. 
These pieces move into the painting well; 
however, the colors and geometric, organic 
imagery do not move among themselves, 
but reach out of the painting to the viewer, 
bringing the raucous sounds of the midway 
to mind.
Plugging into Reality, a moie abstract 
painting, shows a clown figure dancing 
toward or near an area of heavily applied 
and mixed colors. This juxtaposition 
throws the viewer off balance. Pauls view of 
reality is untranslatable. Perhaps the glorifi(a'ion of the individuals creativity is behind 
lhis painting.
Fhe imagery and color in Dreaming

---------------------------------------------------

Radio Calender daily at 8 am, 1 p.m., 7 p.m. and the following days events at 11 p.m. 
WRCTs sounding board of local events such as art exhibits, lectures, live theatre 
performances, recitals, and movies.
Radio Calender Concert Lut - radio calendar feature that lets you plan your 
concert schedule up to 3 weeks in advance.
BBC College Concert Hour 'Today's top new wave and reggae bands recorded live in concert.
Fri. Mar 18th at midnight Duran Duran
Mon. Mar. 21st at 9 p.m. YA7
Fri. Mar. 25th at midnight
Mon. Mar. 28th at 9 p.m. _ .
Fri. Apr 1st midnight Mu
The Latest Release - Sundays at 9 p.m. and Mon 
Half-hour record review program highlighting newmii 
experts and local band members. A unique way of pr 
from America and Europe.
Spring Break - Beginning on Friday1 
27th at midnight the regular profit 
commissioned the Mormon Tabern#
Have*"
The Weekly Reader - Thursdays at 6 p.m. 
"News and Views others ignore"
WRCT SPECIAL PROGRAMMING

---------------------------------------------------

Giveaways - Random times
pane otdjs, Tune in for your chance to win passes to upcoming concert and theatre performances
NEWS Monday thru Friday at NOON, 3 p.m. and 6 p.m.
Up to the minute report on world, national and local news and sports euents.'
Newsweek FM - Fridays at 11:30 a.m.
A half-hour radio magazine from Thirsty Ear Productions.
. 9 ft, ^t. ,rt interviews - Cmuersahons with local performers. Tuesdays at 8:30 p.m.
0/-. e/)
4r Tuesday, Mar. 15th  the Flashcats
dj s^niAnjy lujpnjs vq jwpiny
"<621-WRCT or 578-2883 
"Shows subject to change 

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 15, 1983
B&D pull out stops, give 
Living Dangerously" haren
By BERKELEY RECKER 
and DEMILLE SCHATZ
Tartan Staffwriters
Wake up, Berkeley, dammit!
Holy goats!
I think we fell into a coma after 
Monsignor.
^ Is it time to review again?
You bete ha. Sit up straight, 
jgr Berkeley.
|g* Here goes nothing.
Completeness. Seldom are we confronted 
with a movie that takes script, filmwork, 
styling, technique and thought and weds 
these often disparate elements so cunningly 
yet lovingly. Completely. The Year of Liv
ing Dangerously, directed by Australian 
Peter Weir, is a movie that surrounds you
witn its exotic atmosphere as it leads 
through a world of tensions and dualtt
Image and idea are so intertwined, 
with such complexity to myriad 
images and ideas, that it is hard to de 
the reasons Living Dangerously is soa 
ing and brilliant. Every image is 
mirror; it is through this juxtapositio 
opposites which runs consistendy 
the film that you can see emotion, cot 
and movement.
The story is set in Indonesia in 
year of Nationalist leader Sukarnos tui 
tuous fall from power. Inexperienced) 
nalist Guy Hamilton (Mel Gibson) an 
from Australia with an ambitious 
toward finding the story. He findsai 
tor in dwarf Billy Kwan (Linda Hum 
continued on pag
Prince turns crowd on with wild Arena show
or wide-brim hats.
But what kind of performers could assem
ble such an array of people and style of dress 
other than Prince, The Time, and Vanity 6. 
These performers are more than just enter
tainers. They have engendered a way of 
thinking and style of dress.
Vanity 6 opened the concert. Their dance 
routines were very seductive and suggestive; 
all of their songs w'ere about men and sex. 
Vanity, to keep up with her reputation 
asked the audience to chant Vanity is 
NASTY right before they played their hit 
single Nasty Girls, during which Vanity 
did some sexually suggestive motions with 
her microphone stand.
The Time, a group that personifies cool 
chic panache and conceit were obviously the 
major influence on the men in the audience.
Their hard driving funk sound, exempli
fied in the opening song Get It Up, 
quickly got the crowd up and dancing. 
Their synchronized dance steps were very 
polished and exciting.
Morris Day, the lead singer, had a prop 
man bring out a mirror every five minutes to 
check his hair. Throughout their whole act 
and in their songs, The Time talked about 
how cool they were and how they dont have 
the time to be wasting time.
After their encore performance all the 
members of the band came out front, looked 
at their watches at the same time, grabbed in 
between their legs and walked off. 
Obviously their mothers were not in the 
audience, but then again Vanity from Van
ity 6 said my parents are nastier than I am.
Finally, it was time for the main attrac
tion  Prince. As the smoke appeared and 
the music started, Prince arose from the back 
of the stage on an elevated platform. He was 
dressed in an exotic purple outfit with suede
knee-high boots and a long overcoat.
Controversy, the opening tune, had the 
whole arena on its feet singing along. The 
volume level of Princes music far surpassed 
the two previous groups, making it very 
unpleasant. When Prince sat down to do an 
acoustic piano and vocal solo, the volume 
was still too loud; his lyrics could not be 
heard because of the bad mix and enormous 
sound level which caused distortion.
Despite these facts, the audience never sat 
down and cheered Prince on for more. 
Jumping on top of the speakers, doing 
splits, fancy footwork and shaking his but
tocks as fast as he could kept the crowd 
thoroughly entertained.
During a pause in his act, Prince played a 
tape of moans, groans, grunts and cries of
passion, followed by a love songexhjL 
Princes falsetto voice style. Near the 
the tune, a bed rose from the back^ 
stage.
Prince then ran onto the elevated 
form and stood in front of the bed ^ 
proceded to slowly take off his overco^' 
shirt, just like a strip tease act. As he^ 
take off his pants, the women screamed 
shouted obscenities. But it was just a M 
and he got in the bed with his pants q
Vanity 6 exemplified the naughty a(j, 
turous, wild and loose; The Time 
an arrogant but cool beau brummel in* 
and Prince gave an identity of controw 
and sexual freedom.
What can be said for such a perform 
Prince?
Pen Cle
WITH THE
Kohinoor
By K. J. SENIOR
Tartan Staffwriter
While I was walking around the Civic 
Arena to kill some time before Princes con
cert, I noticed the large variety of people in 
attendance  blacks, whites, interracial cou
ples, adults and teeny boppers. I 
also saw a few people on 
crutches and in wheelchairs. 
More fascinating were the 
clothes people wore.
Most of the young women wore minis
kirts (usually pink, purple or polka dot), 
accented with headbands. Other women 
clad themselves in seductive leopard skin 
garments, erotic camisoles and tight leather 
slacks. Many of the young men wore suits 
and ties. Other men wore knickers, fur coats
sWordanceStudents read
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Senior Jenny Hutton started off the third 
sWordance reading held at Forbes Gallery 
last Thursday at 7:00 p.m. Anna Coleman 
and Louise Crocoll, also seniors, read selec
tions of their work, as did sophomore Chris
topher Johnston. Hosting this informal 
gathering of students from all majors was 
Associate Professor Lynne Barrett, who also 
serves as the sWordance organizer. They 
are sponsored by the English department.
Hutton, a technical writing major, chose 
to read a short story entided Lake Travis. 
The story was taken from a real-life venture 
to Houston, Texas, where Hutton worked 
for a summer as a resume-writer. She found 
she liked the people there, and decided to 
continued on page 17
THURSDAY, MARCH 17 
9am-12noon
l-30pm-4:30

---------------------------------------------------

March 15, 1983The TartanPage 17
Lady Sings The Blues BILLIE HOLIDAY
CALIFORNIA HERE I COMEWITH "PHILLY" JOE JONES A EDDIE GOMEZTar tnSr^otuui rworffwieTpi cpielppS- rec ostOO fumaJ oSooMmio
ed Rider beats sequel curse with superior album
)IJG BLAIR
i Staff1**
ugt is a curse on the record industry, 
new groups, recording their second 
lose the energy that characterized the 
flTiis has happened to The Knack, Bos
ton, and the Rossington-Collins 
Band. Red Rider, Im happy to 
say, has avoided that trap. Their 
latest effort, Neruda, combines 
r0ck and roll with a dash of the new
-popsound.
Rider has kept the power that drove 
f first album, Red Rider, and polished 
, of the rough edges apparent on that 
[tom Cochranes vocals are more con
trolled, though his songwridng ability 
remains dubious. Ken Greers guitar work 
has improved immeasurably, and he no 
longer smothers his fellow musicians. Logi
cally enough, this allows Steve Sextons key
boards more room than they were permitted 
on the first record.
Greer and Sextons new balance gives 
many of the songs a new drive, a tension that 
shows in most of this album. The closest 
thing anyone in the band has to a solo is 
Greers jam in Walking the Fine Line. 
Jeff Jasnes bass work sets the oppressive 
tone that pervades much of the album. 
While adequate, Jones never shows any 
signs of excepdonal talent here.
\arceau makes illusions seem real
I from page 13
I at him for more, and finally takes the 
le bottle. |
ring BIPs train ride he has an unplea3Unter with a passenger. When BIP 
I seem to bite his sandwich for the shakiof the train, his friend next to him helps 
out, and bites his fingers as well, 
ring the performance all that was to be 
[ was the audience, a few sound effects, 
lintermissions of music, yet Marceaus 
lime lent itself to be music not 
| for the eyes, but for all the senses. One 
[ feel the audience become the sculptor,
the maskmaker, become BIP.
Marceau describes the art of mime; By 
identifying itself with the elements which 
surround us it makes visible the invisible 
and concrete the abstract. Where the ears 
would not hear a train or the body not feel 
itself pushed in a crowd, the evidence of 
what we see cannot mistake that we do hear 
the rattling of a train, and that the room is 
very crowded.
The art of pantomime would make sensi
ble the unreal, and would make these illu
sions the essence of life.
iving" shows desperation, tension
I from page 16
apher, Billy tells Guy he will be 
eyes. It is through Billy that we are 
duced to and embroiled in the conflicts 
Jonesian society. Billy takes Guy and 
lienee into the real horror of the pov[ desperation which is the life of the 
I Asian.
I the film unfolds, we learn Billy plays 
the characters in the movie as if they
were the puppets he so lovingly collects. 
Part of the game he plays with Guy is to 
match him with the women Billy himself 
loves  Jill Bryant (Sigourney Weaver). As 
the political tension builds, so does the ten
sion between Jill and Guy; Jills position as 
a British attache allows her access to confi
dential information which she tells Guy in 
expectation that he will keep her secret.
continued on page 20
Wo
mm  tare UfEIUma
Oasis is a paradise of 
JAZZ CLASSICS!
3712 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
(next to Atlantic Books) 
2-LP sets
POLYGRAMS Selected VERVE 
Domestics & Imports.. .Mercury Jazz 
Imports.. .Enja Imports & PSI Clas
sics are NOW ON SALE!
eluding Gerry Mulligan Meets Ben Webster ... Sarah 
jaughan (Sassy Swings the Tivoli) ... Tommy Flanagan 
Wan/ Steps) ... John Scofield (Out Like a Light) ... World 
bxophone Quartet (Revue) ... Mingus Dynasty (Rein\mation)... David Murray (Home) ...
sale price good 
thru 4/10/83
TequilaWES MONTGOMERY
ALSO! more VERVE 
TWOFERS! Ella Fitz
gerald Cole Porter 
Songbook * * * Count 
Basie Paradise Squat 
* * * I ionel Hampton 
Blues Ain't News to 
Me.
Rob Baker, Red Riders drummer, is 
clearly the best musician in the band. His 
rhythms pace the band; his crisp delivery 
underscores Greers guitar and Sextons key
boards. Bakers neat, clean style moves easily 
from supporting other band members to 
stunning solo work; Light in the Tunnel, 
an instrumental, is proof.
The songs on this album all support a 
single theme; oppressed people with a single 
glimmer of hope on their horizon. Power, 
subtided Strength in Numbers, is a 
vicious comment on the mob mentality: If 
I was a wise man/ Id have spoke up/ If I 
was a brave man/ Id surely have said some
thing.
The first two songs on this album 
tend to sound very much the same. In 
fact, the entire album consists of songs with 
similar arrangements. Their first album had 
much the same sound as the new although 
the new is much more polished. Each is a 
good album, but Red Riders future depends 
on their ability to move on.
The only real attempt to do that here is 
Napoleon Sheds His Skin and its a poor 
choice. While Cochrans voice is good for 
the music that comprises nine-tenths of
this album, it is not strong enough to carry 
the full weight of a song. In Napoleon, 
the burden sits squarely on his shoulders, 
and Cochrane isnt yet ready to handle it.
Red Riders talent is considerable. They 
have produced here a fine album, an 
improvement on their first in every respect. 
Lets hope they can diversify enough to stay 
in the business.Poetry reading
continued from page 16
write about them. Thus came the tale 
Lake Travis, which concerns a divorced 
couples struggle to cope with feelings for 
each other in addition to raising their small 
son without living together.
Following Huttons story-reading was 
Anna Colemans reading of poetry. Cole
man, an art major, used rather abstract 
poetic methods to communicate her impres
sions, including several visual aids such as 
booklets and a toy lamb to make things 
easier for the listener, Coleman said, she 
categorized the poems she read into three 
topics  pain and death, animals, and love.
continued on page 18
THE WORLD IS WAITING TO PLAY YOUR GAME.
General Computer Company, an emerging 
leader in the consumer electronics industry, 
seeks talented graduates to fill responsible 
positions creating the next generation oi 
personal computers and video games.
Individuals with strong backgrounds in the 
following disciplines should consider 
joining our 35-person engineering team:
 Design oi compilers and operating systems Applications software lor home computers Computer graphics and animation
 Game design and strategy
 Digital and analog electronic hardware design VLSI custom circuit design Computer music and sound development
General Computer is located in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts. Our engineers have the unique 
satisfaction oi seeing products they create in a 
market which has become part oi American 
popular culture. Employees benefit from work
ing with well-qualified colleagues in a flexible 
and productive environment.
We will be on campus Thursday, March 17th, 
and Friday, March 18th. If you're interested in 
any of these exciting opportunities, please con
tact the Career Service and Placement Office.
There are still positions available in our sign-up 
schedule.
GENERAL COMPUTER COMPANY
215 First Street, Cambridge. MA 02142  (617) 492-5500
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanMarch 15, 1983
60 's film traces rock from ice cream to drug
lly PAULINE KRAMER short-haired clean-cut era was over. Tommv Kinks, with Ray Davies grinning devilishlv. soared Wavne. but the scare t?avp
/
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
The flower child on line, with drugs 
and The Who embroidered on her faded 
jeans, was probably not pleased with the 
first hour of Rock of the 60s at the Stanley 
two Saturdays ago. The movie fea
tured. would you believe, 60s 
rock.
The Beach Boys, looking 
more like friendly neighborhood ice cream 
men than lifeguards, opened up with Fun, 
Fun, Fun. The half-filled theater was 
obviously ready to rock, after about ten min
utes of the popcorn bop, someone yelled, 
Shut these f...ers off. That eloquent state
ment received a thunderous round of 
applause.
More fun songs from the early part of the 
decade received tired reactions. Playing on 
sets as bland as construction sites, the bands 
began to look like clones. Except for the 
Supremes, who were well-received and 
respected, the players were all brown-haired, 
brown-eyed, tenors, and decked out in suits. 
Songs from the Dave Clark Five, Manfred 
Mann, the Searchers, the Zombies, and the 
Hollies (with Graham Nash looking merely 
satisfied) provided a thrill only because they 
were familiar from spotty radio airplay.
But mosdy the music sounded the same 
and the performances, after a while, seemed 
silly and contrived. After an hour, wed had 
our fill of shaking heads, go-go girls 
gyrations, stomping feet, and pre
psychedelic mania. The Turtles took the 
cake; one player looked like a cross between 
violinist Itzhak Perlmann and Benny Hill. 
No kidding. The band looked like fathers of 
the band.
On to the real rock.
CCR opened up to sighs erf relief that the
short-haired clean-cut era was over. Tommy 
Smothers introduced Buffalo Springfield 
doing For What Its Worth, perhaps one 
of the strongest and-war statements in the 
movie and in the rock revolution. Tommy 
James and the Shondells, doing Monday 
Morning, received audience respect only 
when the camera flashed to a young Neil 
Young. Another star to emerge from the 
deluge of protest bands was Mr. Ted 
Nugent, molesting his guitar with the 
Amboy Dukes.
On to the hardcore stars.
Jimi! The place went nuts with Purple 
Haze, followed by Grace Slick and The 
Airplane preaching White Rabbit and 
Somebody to Love. Jim Morrison, 
looking like a savior, ellicited shrieks of 
eroticsm while making love to the 
microphone during When Youre 
Strange. Enter acts by the Yardbirds, the
Kinks, with Ray Davies grinning devilishly, 
Jimmy Page of Led Zep creating distorted 
noise by jamming on his guitar with a bow.
Tommy Smothers was again the emcee, 
and became a victim of The Whos, 
specifically, Keith Moons, quick wit. After 
the band droned I Can See for Miles and 
Miles, Smothers asked, in a straight, 
sarcastic tone, for their names. Im Pete, 
quipped Townshend, with a glint in his 
eye, possibly pondering his upcoming 
windmill attack. Smothers wandered up to 
the drum set and rambunctious Keith Moon 
deadpanned, My friends call me Keith  
you can call me John. A hearty round of 
applause and chuckles.
The Stones came on with Mick looking 
much too healthy and pure to believe. After 
Satisfaction, Ed Sullivan introduced 
Wayne Newton while Mick et. al. took a 
break. To the audiences ecstasy, we were
spared Wayne, but the scare gave us a 
laugh. Can you imagine the $ 
warming up for Newton in Vegas? k 
then floated through You Can't \j 
Get What You Want, looking pro 
drugged-out.
The film chronicled the Beatle;
same evolution from performiin
relatively proper English lads to wai 
through musical transitions. After a 
medley including Please, Please 
From Me to You, She Loves You' 
I Want to Hold Your Hand, the Fab 
concluded an era looking worn out 
Revolution  and Hey Jude. 
The movie seemed slapped ti 
some short interviews would have spu 
the show. Some good music was 
unfairly; at times the quality wasequi\- 
to a car radio turned up too high, 
pioneers deserved better treatment.sWordance offers diverse literary styles
continued from page 17
Pain (physical, that is) poems consisted of 
Drums, and After the Fall, and 
Autumn Heat. All three poems of this 
category used quite a variety of spiritual 
imagery as opposed to explicit description. 
The next section, animals, was quite enter
taining and included Red Frog, A Cool 
Kiss, Of Doves, Toy Lamb, Mitosis, 
and Amanda. The final set of love poems 
included Beauty is in Stars, Abiding 
Time, Love Poem for an Astronaut, 
Sardines, and Lives on Fire.
Professional writing major Louise Crocoll was the third writer in the presentation. 
Crocoll read six selections beginning with 
an obligatory bar poem, (as she termed it) 
entitled Wrack. Also from a class assign
ment was the next poem, White Glove 
Test. Shifting to the theme of cities, Crocoll 
ended her presentation with City Before It 
Wakes, Charting the Present with the 
Past, So How was Your Weekend, and 
Investing. The last piece was about her 
home, which has witnessed the lifetime of 
four generations of Crocolls family. - 
The sophistication of Crocolls delivery 
nicely paralleled with the sophistication of 
her work. Crocoll bases most of her poetry 
on general impressions but believes that 
poems develop from themselves  it just 
has to happen.
The final reader for the program was 
Chris Johnston, majoring in creative writ
ing. While Colemans poetry was aestheti
cally colorful, and Crocolls poetry was
pleasingly subtle, Johnstons poetn 
quite piercing and demanding. Joh 
commented that the selections cho 
Thursdays reading were intended tot 
vocative as they are really satirical, 5 
tic. Some of Johnstons pieces 
depression, commercial flying, and ( 
administration. The reading indj 
Paper, about the lack of paper av 
for creative writing; Air Plastic, al* 
stewardess; and emacs.poem, about^ 
official of CMUs administrative fa 
Dead Baby Jokes evoked quite an^ 
esting response from the audience, as 
Exercise and Collecting Dogtags." 
ston explained his selections for this r 
as being pieces to release the traditia 
typical poetry readings.
You are cordially invited to
The H&SS Spring Fling Dinner-Dance
Friday, April 15, 1983 
7-12 p.m.
Carnegie Music Hall
Tickets: Students - $6.50 
Faculty - $8.50 
Staff - $7.50 
on sale at AAC-BH I6I or at Skibo Info Desk
Featuring
George Gee and His Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra
Sponsored by the H&SS Deans Office 
and the H&SS Student Advisory Council

---------------------------------------------------

codeK
(AA) MOTOROLA INC.
Information Systems Group
An Equal Opportunity;AH.fmaUve Action Employer M/F/V/H
 ^ ~ Development
 positions in our 
Modulations Products
Group and Market Support 
functions within our Market/Product 
Planning areas are available.
In the 1980's and beyond, 
the most rapidly expanding 
area of high technology will 
be Computer Networksthe 
integrated systems of hard
ware and software that allow 
computers and computer users 
to communicate with one 
another. Major breakthroughs 
have already been made, 
including industry-wide 
acceptance of standards and 
protocols. But few companies 
are as strongly positioned to 
profit from the Networking ex
plosion as Codex Corporation.
Together with Motorola, 
our multi-billion dollar parent 
company and a leader in 
semiconductors, land-mobile 
communications, and other 
technologies that play a major 
part in the future of Local and 
Metropolitan Area Networks, 
Codex is launching a major 
expansion of Networking.
We seek individuals with BS's, MS's and PhDs In Applied Math, Electrical Engineering, and Technical Writing to staff our new advanced development facility In Canton, MA (less than 30 minutes outside of Boston).
Codex offers extremely 
attractive salary and benefits 
including full medical, dental, 
and educational benefits.
Codex software and hard
ware engineers will be making 
major strides in:
Networking, 
Telecommunications, 
Software Environments, 
Packet Communications, 
Operating Systems,
CATV, RF and 
Wideband Transmission, 
and other key 
networking areas.
We seek graduates to 
work on all fronts, especially:
? Communications Pro
tocols (X.25, Ethernet, 
DECnet)
? Network Servers 
(Messaging, File, 
Directory, Naming)
? Tool and Software En
vironment Development
? Workstations
? Real-Time Programming 
and Debugging
? Computer Hardware 
Design
? Operating Systems and 
Utilities
? Systems Documentation
? Human Factors Design
? Applications 
Programming
INTERESTED? Come talk to us during our ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS or forward a resume to:Mr. Jerry Dombrowskl, CODEX CORPORATION, Dept. 401,20 Cabot Boulevard, Mansfield, MA 02048.
Group Information 
Presentation 
8:00 PM 
March 15 
SKIBO Rm 12
Concepts we will employ 
include: >
? Layered Software 
Architectures
? Real-Time Software
? Integrated Software 
Development 
Environments
? Concurrent 
Programming
? Custom VLSI
? Toolsmlthlng
? Advanced MultiProcessor Architecture
? Network Modeling

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanMarch 15, 1983
Ideas, images interact in "Living Dangerous!
continued from page 17
However, he uses the secret as a story lead, 
endangering the lives of those he loves, as 
well as his own.
The events in the movie chronicle the 
enlightenment and disillusionment of its 
characters, ending with Guys complete 
comprehension of what hes experienced.
The movement leading to Guys eventual 
enlightenment is visible in the films use of 
scene juxtaposition. In one instance, we see 
the decadent and bloated Westerners getting 
drunk at parties; in the next confrontation 
we see the sickness and starvation of the 
masses. As Western scenes are lost by the end 
of the movie, the now-experienced Guy
remains an alien.
Guys immersion in everything East 
results in a struggle against his suffocating 
revelations about what he is witnessing. 
Both audience and Guy have made a transi
tion, and can understand when Billy, sur
rounded by pictures of the people he loves, 
cries What are we to do?
The Year of Living Dangerously is a liter
ary film aided by technical elements. Weirs 
direction is slow and easy; he plays images, 
sounds, lights, and movements off of one 
another to successfully present his characters 
and their surroundings. Russell Boyds cine
matography makes color and movement an 
integral part of the film. Simple images can
be startling: a shot of Jill and Guy through 
waves of heat rising from the docks of hot 
Jakarta or an overhead shot of Guy, sleeping 
stiffly under the oppression of sweat and 
nightmares give the audience a sudden and 
uncomfortable sense of place.
The screenplay by David Williamson, 
Weir, and C. J. Koch, draw beautifully from 
Kochs novel of the same name. Each char
acter has believable complexities, made 
manifest by action and dialogue.
In addition, the acting is superb. Gibsons 
young reporter has just the right intensity, 
an intensity he shows through his eyes. 
Weaver lends the proper beauty and aloof
ness to the English Jill. Hunts Billy is a
masterpiece. In this litde man, Hu 
dies the poet, sage and humanism 
Billy, simultaneously, haunting ty 
ter with the disillusionment that 
tually destroy him.
The Year of Living Danger0 
movie that impressed Berkeley andr 
It is a film of ideas, one that exp 
in an astonishing symbiosis of in 
words. This is a movie for thinking^ 
not comfortably or about 
things, but about things worth i
illustrated 
by Dtnty Moore
TAKES ON EXCITING 
NEW DIMENSIONS
AIR FORCE.
Computer-generated design for investigating 
structural strengths and weaknesses. ''
Developing and managing Air 
Force engineering projects could 
be the most important, exciting 
challenge of your life. The 
projects extend to virtually every 
engineering frontier.
V fntrrt merHAC 
mMt r\be\rrtC
astronautical, civil, 
electrical, mechanical and 
nuclear. Hundreds of diverse 
specialties are included in a wide 
variety of work settings. For 
example, an electrical engineer 
may work in aircraft design, 
space systems, power production, 
communications or research.
A mechanical engineer might be 
involved in aircraft structure 
design, space vehicle launch pad 
construction, or research.
BtMFrfo trCBM\Ce'eHeoL fMYrC rntHL e\ oIr net mMtfr
MBBMtoN\eoerC e\ oIr \rG NCnm CBnfr fMYYn\A
Air Force electrical engineer studying aircraft 
electrical power supply system.
Engineering opportunities in 
the Air Force include these 
eight career areas: aeronautical, 
aerospace, architectural,
Air Force mechanical engineer inspecting 
aircraft jet engine turbine.
Most Air Force engineers 
have complete project 
responsibility early in their 
careers. For example, a first 
lieutenant directed work on a 
new airborne electronic system 
to pinpoint radiating targets. 
Another engineer tested the jet 
engines for advanced tanker and 
cargo aircraft.
Artists concept of the DSCS III Defense Satellite 
Communications System satellite. (USAF photo.)
Recently, the Air Force 
formed a new Space Command.
Its role is to pull together space 
operations and research and 
development efforts, focusing on 
the unique technological needs of 
space systems.This can be your 
opportunity to join the team that 
develops superior space systems 
as the Air Force moves into the 
twenty-first century.
To learn more about how you 
can be part of the team, see your 
Air Force recruiter or call our 
Engineer Hotline toll free 
1-800-531-5826 (in Texas call 
1-800-292-5366). Theres no 
obligation.
AIM HIGH AIRFORCE

---------------------------------------------------

MU hockey wins it ail; demolishes Gannon 5-1
[OE OSINSH 
> Staffs
Ve have a hockey team!that was the 
m the Pittsburgh Penguins ad men 
, up with to promote their team the past 
seasons. The Pens have never lived up 
 ^putauon. But travel up Forbes 
'a from the Civic Arena to Camegie0n and the slogan suddenly applies. 
Tartans (21-3) turned around from a 
season three years ago to become the 
HL champions this year, whipping 
sne and Gannon by identical 5-1 
in the playoffs.
he West Penn Intercollegiate Hockey 
ue playoffs began last week as Gannon 
Slippery Rock, 6-1, and Duquesne 
nH Penn State  McKeesport, ort\ The 
|es victory earned them the right to meet 
rival Camegie-Mellon for the PittsDivision Championship last WedeH at Lakevue Ice Palace.
|ie Tartans, who received a bye in the 
round for finishing with the best record
I), were out to avenge a 7-3 loss to 
sne in the playoffs last year. And
Night a 
ig success
FFREY BERGMAN
Sports Editor
vC MUfuvseH night, 11 more champions 
'fueR sports were crowned as the IM 
C'agC UaRs their annual IM night, 
a adaghgi began with the finals of the 
asheCa basketball division. In a closely 
Cas 'eCwUl the Jets beat Delta2 52-42. 
kaCv Oaua led by guard Jim Weber who 
CUa ghiUC with 18 points to lead his 
MUa champs played a tight zone 
va OUhwU caused their opponents to 
| CUa neRR over and take many bad shots.
Ra UhiURhiUC of the game though was 
UppChgi of Deltas S. Burton. Burton, 
PReHas professional ball in Spain, was 
dhgi cy footers from all over the place 
RhCChgi all net. He led his team with tCv hgwRfshgi -S in the second half.
VC pg CUa agenda was IM wresding. 
Oaua m classes ranging from 145 to 
hCas\ GSIA won the team tide mainly 
a vCuagiCU of great performances of 
AaugUeusC who won the 145 class 10-0 
beda Ableman and Alan Darr who 
BCHas PIKAs Don Ward 10-1 at 165.
continuad on page 22
avenge it they did as CMU got goals from 
five different forwards to oust the Dukes 
from the league finals for the first time in 
three years.
The game was close at the end of two 
periods as CMU held a 2-1 lead. In the thinl 
period, Duquesne defenseman Mike Nickel 
picked up a double minor giving the Tar
tans a man advantage for four minutes. 
CMU prompdy scored twice as Mike Panno 
and Rick Samuelsen tallied 1:15 apart. 
Christ Byrne added a final power play goal 
at 13:03 from Rob Katz and Tim Carlin. 
Carlin assisted on four of the Tartans five 
goals as the Tartans won their first Div
isional championship.
The Tartans then took to the road for 
Sunday afternoons final against Gannon in 
Erie. The Knights got their ticket to the final 
game by thumping Northern Division 
leader Indiana (Pa.) 6-1 on Thursday night. 
CMU came out skating very slowly and 
found themselves behind 1-0 after just 54 
seconds. Tim Carlin couldnt keep a Gan
non cleaning pass in the attacking zone and 
consequently got caught up ice as Knight
forward Butch Halko took off on a breaka
way. Halkos shot froze goal tender Bob 
Kosakowski to put Gannon on top for the 
remainder erf the period.
But Gannon never scored again. Tim 
Carlin redeemed himself by starting the Tar
tans initial scoring play at 1:52 erf period 
two. The Tartan blueliner backhanded a 
pass to Rob Katz who, in turn, found Chris 
Byme cruising into the slot. Byrnes 25 foot 
wrist shot beat Gannon goalie Doug Wood 
to tie the match. CMUs next line on the ice
 Andy Andrejko, Bill Heyse, and Calelo 
Corkery  put on great pressure around the 
Gannon net resulting in Heyse scoring from 
left of the crease. The goal came 1:02 after 
Byrnes and made the score 2-1 CMU after 
two periods.
Gannon began the third period with 
comeback in mind. The Knights took the 
play to the Tartans in the first five minutes, 
so much so that Paul Russo and Carlin drew 
penalties 30 seconds apart To ward off the 
ensuing two man disadvantage, Tartan 
coach Jeff Guttman sent out Captain Rick 
Samuelsen at center along with the defen
sive tandem of Tim Kenny and Ted Daw
son. Following some great defensive play 
and blocked shots by Dawson and Kenny, 
Samuelsen stole the puck from two Knights 
at the CMU blue line and pulled ahead for a 
breakaway. The Tartan captain faked goalie 
Wood down and flipped a forehand into 
cage at 5:17.
The short handed goal was the turning 
point of the game; the Tartans proceeded to 
kill the rest of the two man advantage and 
add two power play goals of their own. 
Thirteen seconds into a Gannon penalty, 
Tim Carlin cranked a bullet from the left 
point that clearly beat Wood at 7:23.
The final goal was a fitting way to wind 
up the season for two veteran players. The 
teams only two seniors, Mike Panno and 
Rick Samuelsen, combined to put the Tar
tans up 5-1. The scoring play read 
Samuelsen from Panno and Carlin at 14:23. 
The two senior roommates also got together 
after the game by providing a surprise cham
pagne party in the locker room.
The Tartans 17-1 league marie is a 
WPIHL record. The Tartans also allowed 
the fewest goals against for any team this 
season.
The Hoyas Bobby Joe Smith drives for a lay-up against BETAS Mike ODonnel in the Majors championship game. Beta won 56-33.
ftajor League Baseball Previewog fight expected in well balanced NL East
Y BERGMAN
Sports Editor 
r those folks who werent here last year, 
s mY second annual baseball prognostiins' Unlike my football choices, I was 
close last year with my hardball picks. 
I chose California to win the AL 
and had Baltimore, Los 
Angeles, and Montreal for the 
rest of the divisions. All three 
in second place. This year Im 
to try to go out on a limb more 
ln last years choices I had a hunch 
Atlanta was going to win but I picked 
as fourth. These articles will come in 
^parate issues, one for each division. 
I 'veek will be the NL East.
Montreal Expos  You may ask yourl^hy is he picking this same bunch of 
I Achievers who choked last year. The 
I n simple, manager Bill Virdon. The 
|ngredient this team lacked last year was
toughness, which Virdon will definitely 
instill. He also will provide some discipline 
for this team which last years failure, Jim 
Fanning, never could.
Elsewhere, the Expos have the talent. On 
the mound they probably are one of the best 
staffs in the league. The starting four of 
Steve Rogers (19-8, 2.40), Bill Gullickson 
(12-14, 3.57), Scott Sanderson (12-12, 3.46), 
and Charlie Lea (12-10, 3.24) are probably 
one of the most solid and consistent in the 
division. Unfortunately, they ate all right 
handers, which leaves a fifth spot in the 
rotation open for either Dan Schatzder (0-2, 
3.50) or Randy Lerch (2-0, 3.42).
In the bullpen, Montreal has the stopper 
Jeff Reardon (7-4, 2.06, 26 saves). However, 
past him, Virdon must rely on aging vete
rans Woodie Fryman(9-4* 3.75) and Ray 
Burris(4-14, 4.73).
In the field, the Expos' biggest problem 
was catching the ball. The cornerman A1
Oliver (22, 109, .331) and Tim Wallach (28, 
97, .268) had great seasons at the bat but 
couldnt catch a grounder even if they both 
had Hoovers. The man who will stabilize 
this infield will be Doug Flynn (0,20, .244). 
The all-field, no-hit man should, when 
combined with veteran Chris Speier (7, 60, 
.257), form a strong infield which suffered 
last year from lack' of consistency.
Leadoff man and speedster Tim Raines 
(4, 43, .277) will be in left and should have a 
good year now that he is supposedly cured 
of his chemical dependency problem. 
M.V.P. candidate Andre Dawson (23, 83, 
.301) will patrol center while a batde in 
spring training looms for right field. Three 
men, veteran Warren Cromartie (14, 62, 
.254), Terry Francona (0, 9, 1321) who is 
coming off erf knee surgery, and rookie Roy 
Johnson (14, 76, .367 in AAA) all have a she>t 
at the starting job. Johnson has the advan
tage but either way Montreal will have great
depth out there.
Strengths  Speed, starting pitching, out
field depth and defense, overall hitting. 
Weaknesses  Infield fielding, bullpen 
depth.
Prediction  If Reardon and starting 
catcher Gary Carter (29, 97, .293) stay 
healthy then the Expe* will take this divisiewi with great pitching.
2) Pittsburgh Pirates  The Bucs were 
the surprise team erf the division last year 
primarily because erf a hitting attack that 
was the most awesomest in the league. As a 
team, Pittsburgh hit .273 and knocked in 
688 runs, tops in both departments. The 
main problem with the Pirates was a pitch
ing staff that had a team E.R.A. erf 3.81.
1983 should find similar results for man
ager Chuck Tanner, but a couple items will 
improve things. First, there is the acquisi
tion of center fielder Lee Mazzilh <10, 34, 
continued ort page 22

---------------------------------------------------

- ; '  V , ^: *-* 5W *
Page 22-TKe Tartan-Htoi* 16, 1383
A,v
,4 V ;
tatl&tm>
 * 
--------------
vr  -V- #4 *-,: "
. ,/%vv V 't, :
V V t; :
Buccos' power expected to overcome Cards' speec
continued from pege 21
.250) to replace Omar Moreno. Maz/illi is 
sort of a head case. With the Mets, the years 
he played only center field he was an all-star. 
At any other position, Mazzilli was an alsoran. If Tanner names him as a starter, the 
kid from Brooklyn will have a banner year.
Second, this year will mark the resurgence 
erf Dave Parker. Parker (6, 29, .270) had an 
injury-plagued season last year but reported 
to camp fit and trim this spring and looks 
ready to play. * .
The rest of the lineup, except left, is set. 
Tanner will have Tony Pena (11, 63, .296) 
catching, Jason Thompson (31, 101, .284), 
Johnny Ray (7, 63, .281), Dale Berra (10,61,
.263), and captain Bill Madlock (19,95, .319) 
in the infield.
Left field is a four way battle between 
platoon men Mike Easier (15, 58, .276) and 
Lee Lacy (5,31, .312), veteran Dick Davis (4, 
17, .228), and rookie Brian Harper (17, 73, 
.284 in AAA). Tanner will probably again 
platoon using the rest as subs.
On the mound last year, Pittsburgh did a 
great job in recycling some hurt arms and 
bringing back some dead ones. Veterans 
John Candelaria (12-7, 2.94) and Dofi 
Robinson (15-13, 4.28) rebounded from 
injuries and combined with Rick Rhoden 
(11-14, .414) to form a formidable starting 
three. Pitching coach Harvey Haddix, also
recycled Larry McWilliams (6-5, 3.11) and 
Manny Sarmiento (9-4, 3.39) from the dead. 
If Jim Bibby comes back from surgery, then 
the Bucs can move Sarmiento to the bullpen 
to replace AWOL Enrique Romo and have 
an effective starting rotation. Kent Tekulve 
(12-8, 2.87, 20 saves) and lefty Rod Scurry 
(4-5, 1.74, 14 saves) man the bullpen.
Strengths - Hitting, power, great depth, 
bullpen, speed.
Weaknesses - Team defense, questionable 
starting rotation.
Prediction - Tanner must have repeat per
formances from all his pitchers, especially 
the bullpen, in order to win. If Parker and 
Bibby rebound, this team will be powerful.
BETA takes Majors basketball crown
continued from page 21
Two pins were registered as Vince Lynn 
nailed BETAs Paul Grachen at .59 erf the 
second period and Rob the animal Butts 
caught Ron Fricke at .17 of the second 
period in the unlimited division.
Perhaps the most exciting match of the 
night was that of Rich Baeder of GSIA and 
Rick Ferraro of PIKA. Ferraro was leading 
comfortably 4-2 in the 3rd period when a 
seemingly tired Baeder pulled an amazing 
reversal and got Ferraro on his back for two 
more points. Down 6-4, Ferraro needed a , 
take down to tie. As the period wore down, 
Baeder got called for stalling, cutting the 
lead to 1. However, time ran out cm Ferraro 
and Baeder won the medal at 190.
Other winners were Tim Nagy of BETA 
at 155, Dave Powell at 172, and Alex Tomlison at 180.
After the trophies few all champions were 
given out it was time for the Majors basket
ball championship. The match uphad (lie 
defending champs BETA-A against the.
Hoyas. The game was never a contest from 
the beginning. BETA outscored its oppo
nent 11 -2 at the start and 14-2 in the 2nd half 
to blow out the Hoyas 56-33.
BETA won the game on the boards as Bill 
Kiselick and Mike O'Donnel refused to let 
the Hoyas take any second shots while crash
ing the offensive boards for numerous 
second chances.
The Hoyas came as dose as 23-16 in the 
2nd half but eight straight hoops by Kisel
ick, Mike Seal, O'Donnel, and Denny Myers 
{Hit the game out of reach.
Kiselick led BETA with 15 while Brad 
Huwar chipped in 10. The Hoyas leading 
scorer was Bobby Joe Smith who finished 
the game with 10 points.
The day before, champions were decided 
in the Minors and Womens divisions. The 
Full Moon team led by Gary Prescotts 15 
points defeated GWAGI29 io 18 to take the 
Minors. Jim Falkner was tops for GWAG| 
With 6. Uncle Hymies Deli won the 
Womens in a hard fought 13-10 battle. The
game was put away when the champs sunk 
a crucial one and one with 20 seconds left on 
the clock.
Elsewhere, the IM Swiming Meet will be 
held Tuesday March 15th at 4:30 p.m. in the 
CMI J pool. The commissioner will be Tom 
Brekovsky who will be helped by his fellow 
members of the GMU varsity swimming 
team. Thank you very much Mrs. Pecman!
Each swimmer is allowed to swim 3 
events with no more than two individual 
events. There will be heats in all swimming 
events for women only!
Events will be: 200 yard medley relay; 50 
yard freestyle; 100 yard individual medley; 
50 yard butterfly; 100 yard freestyle; 50 yard 
back stroke; 50 yard breast stroke; 200 yard 
freestyle; and 200 yard freestyle relay.
Entries are due for Softball March I6th at 
4:30 p.m. Games will start after Spring 
Break so sign up now! There will also be a 
rules clinic March 3,1st at fSpL'm the 
Womens Gym. Comm. Mike Corfetti 687-
3)St Louis Cardinals-How good reallv 
the world champions last year? Their 
92-70, good for third place in the AL  
What have they done to improve thec 
since last year? Nothing. That is the 
the Cards wont repeat. Every other t 
the division, including the Cubs 
improved their teams. Herzog thinks he 
has the horses, I dont.
The pitching staff revolves around 
reliever Bruce Sutter (9-8, 2.90, 36 sa * 
he goes down with an injury, these; 
over. Herzog has two proven starter 
Andujar (15-10, 2.47, and Bob ForschnJ 
3.48). Dave LaPoint (9-3, 3.42) and ]0 
Stuper (9-7,3.36) are penciled in as #3 
Both have potential but are question 
over a long season. Also, in order for 
pitchers to be successful, middle 
Doug Bair (5-3, 2.55) and 44 year old 
Kaat (5-3,4.08) must keep the game close 
Sutter.
The Cards won last year primarily 
the slash and bum tactics. Quality field 
running, and smart movement of !* 
runners were St. Louis means of successa 
this theory should continue. Left fiel 
Lonnie Smith (7, 69, .307) gets the Ca 
offense going and should have another p 
ductive year. Where St. Louis is going 
faulter is Herzogs promise to trade 
fielder George Hendrick (19, 104, .21 
order to give David Green (2, 23, j 
starting shot. If Whitey trades his 10( 
man, the Cards run production will di 
dramatically. Green is not a Hendrick a 
will probably not be able to produce 
same stats.
Assuming this doesnt happen, the a 
glaring weakness that will show up 
lack of run production from the catch 
spot and from third base. World SeriesM 
continued on pipw
 .  vv.UTILITY OFFin
i TSr< -
* .  I . ..
MILITARY FORCE
Thursday, March 17 Whorrott Room 4:30 PM
Dr. Barry Blechman, Roosevelt Center for 
American Policy Studies *
Dr. Joshua Epstein, Council on Foreign Relations
cOMMANI AMD CONTRM
M.
f-;.
A
Monday, March 28 Whorrott Boom 4:30 PM
Dr. John Steinbruner, The Brookiogs Institution 
Mr Charles Zraket The Mitre Ctporatoo
 * *  - ;   .V     ' 3 V  i. 
aclnAdnd dnlnppnArn
UNO DEFENSE OF NATO
Thursday, April 7 Wherrett Room 4:30 PM
Ambassador Jonathan Dean (Ret.), Carnegie Endowment 
for International Peace 
Dr. Kevin Lewis, The Rand CorporationuuuCarnegieMeilon Umvef^

---------------------------------------------------

March 15, 1983The TartanPage 23
itching to determine fate of Phil, and IM.Y.
I from page 22
PpuCau (12, 48, .231), and Ken Oberk34 .289) combined for a paltry 83 
OUhwU wont be enough to carry Hertfoops over the long haul this year, 
pF the infield Keith Hernandez (7, 
) Mp' Herr (0, 36, .266), and the 
Q00 shortstop Ozzie Smith (2,43, .248) 
sfuenRa Whitey Herzog players. RooveChpg Willie McGee (4,56, .296) will
wagCau\
ngths - Speed, team fielding, Herzog,
31-
aknesses - Power, starting pitching 
ence, catching depth, 
diction - St. Louis will be a force to 
i with, but with the improvement of 
5t of the league, the Cards will have a 
time winning 90.
hiladelphia Phillies-Fourth place in 
Bdhvhpg hv deceiving. I think PhiladelhdhRR na hg the thick of things till late 
nber nfC a late slump will cause the 
v Cp FhghvU four games out. 
HL YaRRl I dont buy this Wheeze Kids 
N\ GefR Owens has assembled a team 
CUa vCeuChgi first baseman is 42, the 
i vawpgs baseman is 40, the ace 
u hv cTl ev is the top starter. True Cy
I eOeus winner Steve Carlton (23-11, 
Res e iuaeC year and Joe Morgan (14, 
TE eR'pvC Ras his team to the pennent, 
a uavC pF CUa club seems to be slipping, 
vDv ev hF Pete Rose (3, 54, .271) has 
vRpOas down. Hes just hanging 
s Rpgi enough to break Ty Cobbs 
\.CpPPauMfi McGraw (3-3,4.31)had 
vfuiauH last year and whether he can 
newD hv e question mark. Without a 
Cag veda man, manager Pat Corrales 
eda Cp juggle things around, 
uavC pF the starters will be veterans 
xfCUdag (11-11, 3.79), Larry Christen
son (9-10,3.47), A1 Holland (7-3,3.33), anda 
hopefully recovered John Denny (0-2,4.03). 
Helping Tug in the bullpen will be Ron 
Reed (5-5,2.66,14 saves) and Sid Monge (7-1 
3.75, 2).
The biggest trade on the field was the 5 for
1 deal in acquiring lefty right fielder Von 
Hayes (14, 82, .250). Hayes will be a great 
complement in the batting order to right 
handing sluggers like outfielder Bary 
Mathews (19, 83, .281), all-world third base
man Mike Schmidt (35, 87, .280), and 
catcher Bo Diaz (18, 85, .288). The question 
is can Hayes handle the pressure that the 
press and fans will put on him.
Morgans double play partner will be 
light hitting Ivan Dejesus (3,59, .239) while 
center field should fall into the hands of 
veteran Garry Maddox (8, 61, .284).
Strengths - power, infield defense, depth.
Weaknesses - age, questionable starting 
pitching.
Prediction - If manager Pat Corrales can 
get consistent pitching from his starter, then 
this team will challenge the Expos till the 
final day. Also Diaz must stay healthy since 
the Phillies dont have a backup.
5) New York Mets  On June 24 last year 
the Mets were a game and a half out of first 
place. They ended up 24 games out of first 
place. What happened? First, there was the 
injury to stopper Neil Allen. Second, 
unmysteriously, starter Randy Jones forgot 
how to win. Third, Dave Kingman (37, 99, 
.204) and George Foster (13, 70, .247) left 
their bats at home.
Thats why in the off season, GM Frank 
Cashen decided to get some ballplayers who 
will provide some consistency. Goodbye Pat 
Zachry and Pete Falcone and hello Tom 
Seaver (5-13, 5.50) and Mike Torrez (9-9, 
5.23). ]* - :
True, both pitchers had lousy stats last
year but each is a special case. Ever since 
1974, Seaver has had a sub-par year in the 
even years and a great year in the odd years. 
This season is 1983 so look for Tom to win 
16. Torrezs problem was Bostons fans. He 
has been hounded ever since Bucky Dent hit 
that home run against the Sox in the 1978 
playoffs. A change of scenery should help 
his pitching tremendously.
The rest erf the pitching staff looks prom
ising. Injury-prone Craig Swan (11-7, 3.35) 
looks like hes over his shoulder problems. 
Filling the rotation will be a bunch of 
youngsters led by Rick Owenby (1-2, 3.75), 
Scott Holman (10-8, 3.43 in AAA), and 
Doug Sisk (11-8,2.67 in AA). Ed Lynch (4-8, 
3.55) and Jesse Orosco (4-10, 2.72) make up 
of what could turn into a solid bullpen.
On the field, the Mets biggest holes are up 
the middle. Catcher John Steams (4, 28, 
.293) hasnt been able to throw a ball effec
tively since last August and probably wont 
be ready till July. In his place manager 
George Bamberger hopes veteran Ron 
Hodges (5, 27, .246) can fill the void.
At the keystone position, Wally Backman 
(3, 22, .272) and Brian Giles (3,10, .210) will 
be fighting for jobs. Giles cant hit but is an 
amazing fielder. Backman can hit righties 
great but is nothing against a southpaw. 
Since the rest of the infield has trouble catch
ing the ball, Giles looks like the best.
That infield consists of Kingman, Ron 
Gardenhire (3, 33, .240) who committed 29 
errors, and Hubie Brooks (2,40, .249). Join
ing Foster in the outfield will lead off man 
Mookie Wilson (5, 55, .279), who stole 58 
bases, and Gary Rajsich (2, 12, .259) but hit 
over .300 as a starter.
Strengths  Power, bullpen, starting 
pitching.
Weaknesses  Catching, infield fielding, 
lack of production from left side of infield
questionable right field.
Prediction  The Mets will be at best a 
.500 team. If they do it will be on the strength 
of an underrated pitching staff. Good years 
from Kingman, Foster, and Allen would 
help too.
6) Chicago Cubs  GM Dallas Green has 
assembled a powerful hitting squad which 
should give the Cubbies about 75 wins in 
this well balanced division. Their downfall 
comes on the mound.
Past Ferguson Jenkins (14-15,3.15), man
ager Lee Elia does not have one consistent 
starter. Candidates for jobs will be Dickie 
Noles (10-13, 4.42), Steve Trout (6-9, 4.26), 
Chuck Rainey (7-5, 5.02), and Jim Wright 
(5-2, 3.41 in AAA). What will have to save 
this team is the bullpen. Lee Smith (2-5,2.69 
17 saves) and Willie Hernandez (4-6, 3.00, 
10 saves) form a nice right-lefty combina
tion. Replacing Dick Tidrow as the long 
man will be either Bill Campell (3-6,3.69) or 
Mike Proly (5-3, 2.30).
Green said last year that hes going to 
rebuild the Cubs with young players. He did 
another about face in the off season by 
acquiring power hitter Ron Cey (24, 79, 
.254) to play third. He should fit in nicely 
with sluggers Bill Buckner (15, 105, .306), 
Leon Durham (22, 90, .312), and catcher 
Jody Davis (12, 52, .261) to form a tough 
meat of the order.
Leading off for Chicago this year will be 
second year man Ryne Sandberg (7, 54, 
.271). Sandberg, who will be switching from 
third to second, started off lousy last season 
going 1 for 32 but rebounded to have a fine 
rookie season. Joining him as a double play 
partner will be Larry Bowa (0,29, .246), who 
looks like he has a few more years left.
The biggest openings in the Cubs lineup 
will be in left and center fields, veteran Jay 
continued on page 26
TTENTION! 
Financial Aid 
Applicants
inancial Aid Applications or the 1983-84 Academic ear are Now Available in he Financial Aid Office.
216 Warner Hall Please come pick them up ipimediately
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU 
 
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00 ' 
(WASH-CUT-RLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
urfonwM.
Mon.. Tun.. Wed. 10-7 
Than , Fri. 10-9 
Sat 946*7-5500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PAEOHON HMCUTTOS
257 Ai wood Street Across the street from 
Oakland 201 Office

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16 8 PM SKIBO BALLROOM
BROUGHT TO YOU BY AB LECTURES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
WHAT REALLY HAPPENED?CAN WE SURVIVE ANOTHER MISTAKE?
N PERSONROBERT MULLER,EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, VIETNAM VETERANS OF AMERICA
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
loe Freshmanby Mark Levine
ex
HtftS. COtAE
AMt>t>EtSAElV
a
?
JPm
by Jay Seletz
iso Factoby Diane Thodos
fo*/ are charging vue (\ 
% iir\tere$1-ov\ tVidt $0 
\)0rroi*/e<i 1$-* imom-Mi?
t V\evtr agreed cm )
w
<s $ **
iVjvS+icc x 
Sogfljesf
~ M7 RETHINK 
^j/O/ouV' pv;v\ciptes'.
Oh I hav^i Avvol 1
caK4 *f;w(A a tVv^, 
ivrov><j u/i+to -tVCWh.
I/Jell, ih tW case perhaps
ive oo^ht to d>'sti/s$-fkc(Wo 
Yov borfou/eJ froMi me 
(UM-year.1
indexter
RW^so/hEW/N tW-V 9Mas 
tKE Tvtr&Jma!
by Don Beyer

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifieds
Professional Writer Available Will proofread, 
edit, revise your dissertation, theses and term pro
jects. Degreed, experienced. 361-6563 before 1 
p.m.
Word Pros 327-7268 Word processing specialists. 
Term papers, theses, resumes. Pick up/delivery. 
Special student rates. Phone answers 24 hours.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
German Tutoring If you need help call 681-2277 
in the evening and ask for Klaus.
Guitar lessons Classical, Jazz, Rock'. Guitar 
major. $7/half-hour, $ 12/hr. If interested call 
Marc Garvin at 521-3694.
Urgent; need large refrigerator. Call x3535 if 
youve got one to sell.
FLYING FINGERS Word processing and typ
ing. Student/academic rates. 241-1338.
Theater technician Three years experience in 
electrics and theatrical techniques. Call 2- 
HEAVEN.
The Spring Carnival Committee is now accept
ing applications for student ticket sellers during 
carnival. The job is easy and pays $3.50 an hour. 
WORK-STUDY NOT REQUIRED. To apply, 
fill out an application at the Skibo Info Desk. 
Deadline for application is noon, April 8.
Feel free to join us at Bnai Brith Hillels Com
munity Passover Seder. Monday, March 28, and 
Tuesday, March 29, at 7 p.m. Both here at Hillel. 
Reservations must be made and paid for by Fri
day, March 18. Call 621-8875.
Young man into magic and traveling seeks warm 
and affectionate girl for beautiful relationship. 
Great times, non-smoker. Write Jay c/o Tartan 
office, Skibo 52.
Summer Sublet room (including bed) available 
in 4 bedroom furnished house. 2 minutes from 
campus $162.50 plus utilities. Women preferred. 
681-9065.
Resumes Word processed. Look typeset a *4 the 
cost. Choose type style, format and design. 
Update often, easily. Standard $10. 621-5585. 
(Previously, this phone number was misprinted.)
$100 reward for the return of Silver WW2 Air 
Force Bracelet, Inscribed. Lost between Morewood Gardens and Forbes Avenue Bridge. Call 
661-4033 evenings and weekends, 682-6297 
weekdays.
1979 Mazda RX7 Excellent condition. New 
brakes and shocks. Sunroof. Metallic blue. $6500. 
Call 661-5361, evenings.
Shadyside 1-bedroom apt. Fum. or unfum. 
Wood-buming fireplace, AC, wall-to-wall. $325, 
utilities incl. 661-6622 (day) or 361-1628 after 5 
p.m.
Summer, fall rentals Rooms are large, clean, 
,unny, carpeted and quiet in a co-ed house. Ten 
minutes from CMU. Three baths, two kitchens. 
For people that want high QPAs. $140-$190 and 
everything included. Call Mr. Whalen at 683- 
2589.
Lose a calculator? If so, call 687-3416. Describe it, 
and it is yours.
clubs
H0WT0 STOP DRUNK DRIVING.
TOUGH LAWS MAY HELP, BUT WE ALSO NEED TO CHANGE OUR ATTITUDES.
Do you know anyone 
whos in favor of drunk 
driving? Not likely. And yet 
many people have driven when 
under the influence of alcohol, 
or will do it at least once.
Take a look at some 
chilling statistics. One out of 
every two of us will be in
volved in an alcohol-related 
accident sometime during our 
lives. Last year alone, more 
than 25,000 people died in 
such accidents; an additional 
1.5 million were injured. A 
disproportionate number of 
those killed were under 25 
years old.
The cost of drunk-driving 
accidents amounts to over $24 
billion every year in property 
damage, loss of wages, medical 
and legal fees. Not to mention 
the emotional pain to the vic
tims families and friends.
What is being done 
about it? Over the years, 
many different approaches 
have been tried: mandatory 
jail sentences, stiff fines, 
license suspensions, alcoholrehabilitation programs, and 
higher drinking-age laws.
No single countermeas
ure seems to do the job by 
itself. Tough laws, unless they 
are supported by equally tough 
enforcement and the certainty 
of punishment, dont seem to
kt
k
work over the long run. Even 
with all three, probably the 
most effective single thing we 
could do is to examine our 
own attitudes about drinking 
and driving.
How much do you really 
know about the effects of 
alcohol? The facts may sur
prise you. For example, a lot 
of people believe that beer 
and wine are less intoxicat
ing than other drinks. In 
fact, a can of beer, a glass 
of wine, or a l^-ounce drink 
of 86-proof liquor are all 
about equally intoxicating.
A lot of factors deter
mine how quickly youll get 
drunk. Your body weight, how 
much youve had to eat, and 
the number of drinks you have 
over a specified time all make 
a difference. Thats why its 
so hard to know when youve 
had too much.
A common legal defini
tion of intoxication is .10 per
cent blood-alcohol level. For 
a 160 lb. person, it takes about 
four or five drinks in the first 
two hours on an empty stom
ach to reach the legal limit, 
compared with three or four 
drinks in the first two hours 
ior someone who weighs 120 
lbs. Of course, your judgment 
and reaction time will be 
impaired well before you reach 
the legal limit.
: At General Motors, were
very concerned about the 
effects of drinking on driv
ing. Over a decade ago, we 
developed a device that tests 
a drivers reflexes and motor 
responses before starting the
car. The Department of Trans
portation is now field-testing 
that device.
We also strongly favor 
all efforts that focus attention 
on the problem such as the 
Presidential Commission on 
Drunk Driving. Make sure 
your friends and family know 
the facts about mixing alco
hol and driving. Drunk driv
ing will only stop when we 
all decide it isnt socially 
acceptable. Be self-confident 
enough to admit when youve 
had too much to drink to drive 
safely.
Meanwhile, seat belts 
are still your best protec
tion against drunk drivers. 
They cant prevent an acci
dent, but they will help save 
your life during a serious 
crash whatever the cause.
This advertisement is part of 
our continuing effort to give 
customers useful information 
about their cars and trucks and 
the company that builds them.
Chevrolet  Pontiac 
Oidsmobile  Ruick 
Cadillac  GMC Truck
official
Pen ofjj 
ink
CMU Ballroom Dance Club Leam to dance, free 
lessons, every Friday 34:30, Thistle Hall, Gym. 
Beginners Welcome.
Rugby Club Practice on Tuesday at 4:45, Friday 
at 4:45, and Saturday at noon. All interested in 
playing should come to Flagstaff hill at these 
times. No experience needed. Call Adam for 
details at 687-0381.
President Richard M. Cyert will have 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Thursday, 
Students who wish to meet with the nr 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
appointment.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of 
des and Sodal Sciences, will hold open off 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:30i 
260.
Cubs in last
continued from page 23
Johnstone (10,45, .241) and Keith MoreL 
(15, 68, .261) will probably platoon in 
while rookie Mel Hall (32, 125, 
AAA), Gary Woods (4, 30, .269), and So 
Thompson (0, 7, .365) will fight it om 
Arizona for the job.
Strengths  Bullpen, infield 
power, run production ability.
Weaknesses  Starting pitching, outfit 
defense, depth.
Prediction  Elia must get half ^ 
decent pitching from his starters in order 
contend. Anyway, the most exciting gam 
of the year will be played in Wrigley Fj 
where at least 10 runs will be scored a gan
Pregnant?
And you didn't 
mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621-1988
nTiuR E BhRcuPukD 
\RRg IRTpD
For a confidential friend call: 
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
562-0543
843-0505
489-9020
282-1200
YPhlRTTR.x oapOuc CRh,OlR
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observe
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371 -3657 
(24 hour service),
10% discount with coupon
charismatic 
rayer 
[every Friday 
light at I p.m.| 
[at MeNon 
Institute 
! Belief eld Ave.] 
| (Across from 
Heinz Cha^e^l 
| Oakland* Pa. 
'call Rege for 
I information; 
262-3990.
&

---------------------------------------------------

March 15, 1983The TartanPage 27
foranee missing
)ramatic gaps hurt Fine Line's Key Exchange
rovrr stRRich
! Managing Editor
get tired of the same arsenal of under Yes indeedee Mike, so do I.
ike (Richard Willing) is the redeeming 
of an otherwise drab production of
* Key Exchange by the Fine Line 
Theatre Company. Willing, the 
y only non-company veteran, 
injected most of the humor and 
into this sensitive play about the bitterslives of Manhattans swinging singles 
_ as the program notes.
,ahRl sensitivity is fine but much of the 
nce _ sexual and otherwise  was 
6agas by the dramatic gaps of silence 
0g GUhRhP (Curt DeBor) and Lisa (Bonnie 
flore) vfwDas face  as the swinging 
oav vaC might say  or at least tned to 
: Fewa; Lisa becomes increasingly frigid 
lfiUpfC CUa play, while Philip begins to 
Cg fP\
)eBors performance also begins to warm 
near the end of the play, as hes on stage 
\ Willing more; the two men do create a 
rapport. Otherwise the show,
although well-written, seemed lifeless. Gil
more and DeBor acted with each other as if 
they were both throwing fouls balls at each 
other, never hitting the mark and scram
bling for the wild pitch. The feeling of look
ing into the jumbled white mass in an 
underwear drawer is comparable to such 
scenes; you know what youre supposed to 
be looking at but it isnt thrilling.
Willing picks up the tempo frequently, 
especially in the scene he describes the night
his wife left him for another man. He tells of 
his marital problems and lustful desires 
with oomph  thats what it is. As she was 
packing, he spied her jar of jelly in the 
bathroom, emptied it, and filled it with Ben 
Gay; well, it needs to be seen to be truly 
appreciated.
The direction, by Robert Koch, was inter
esting. The atmosphere of a well-used rest 
spot in Central Park was created imagina
tively with one bench, a few small saplings
and a hopscotch game drawn on the cement 
flooring. The actors were always at home 
there, constantly using the space as one 
would a home spot. A difficult problem 
with the play is its requirement that the 
actors bicycle across stage but Koch also 
handled this staging well.
Despite the few DeBore/Gilmore suckface scenes, Key Exchange is an enjoyable 
production because of Willings humor and 
Kevin W7ades script.
MUhv hv e CavC\ 
MUhv hv pgRH e 
CavC\ Ig CUa 
adagC pF eg 
ewCfeR
esdauChva'agCyHpf OpfRs gpC 
na gpChFhas ev 
Cp \\\
1
Ai
"JF
............. A________________________
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES 
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oz. cons (& quarts)
STROHS
LOWENBRAU It , Dk.,- bottles
MICHELOB 
BUDWEISER 
MILLER
OLD ENGLISH BOO 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGERbottles 
GENESSEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texas) bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE bottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE 
MICHELOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBSSteak  Corned Beef  Tuna  Turkey
SANDWICHESHaddock  Cod * Ground Steak  Sausage Veal  Chuck -Chicken Parmesan
SPECIALTY ITEMSSteak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries Hot Dogs with choice ot 12 condiments Pizzo served till 3 am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICESServing beer Sunday 1 pm-2 am Imports, Cans, Quarts, Draft Pitchers Mugs Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHELOB STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALTOne different 16 oz 6 pk featured each weekSTROHS  ROLLING ROCK  SCHLITZ OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
ImportsBECK S Lt., Dk Germany BASS Alt  England HARP LAGER-Ireland MOLSON GOLDEN-Canoda HEINEKEN It Dk -Holland LOWENBRAU-Gcrmony O'KEEFE ALE-Canada PILSNER URQUELL Czech KIRIN-JoponMACKESSON STOUT-helond
ST PAULI GIRL Germany DOS EQUIS XXMexico JOHN COURAGE-England WATNETSEngland CARLSBERG ELEPHANT - Den CARLSBERG ROYALE-Denmark CARLSBERG DARK - Denmark TSINGTAO- China HACKER PSCHORR-Germany IABATTS-Canoda MURPHY IrelondOLD VIENNA LAGER-Canada COOPER & SON-Australia 55 LAGER Conodo FOSTER'S LAGER Australia
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC
Open
9am-3:45am Sun-Thurs 
9am-4:45am Fri-Sat 
Call 62! 7388 or 621-1185 
3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 
Pgh., PA 15213
GIVE YOUR DEGREE THE EBA* EDGE
(* Essentials of Business Administration)
Women liberal arts graduates can spend six weeks this summer preparing for a career 
in business by acquiring skills and knowledge for moving into the job market.
Learn about:
 Computer and Information Science  Statistics
 Accounting and Financial Analysis  Economics
 Organization Structure  Caieer Assessment
 Marketing
Chatham College, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is now accepting applications from women 
college seniors or graduates for the EBA certificate program June 19 to July 29, 1983.
Please send me further information 
on the EBA Program:
name
CHATHAM
COLLEGE
School
Address ____ .. ________________________________________________
Send to EBA Administrator, Chatham College, Woodland Road. Pittsburgh PA 15232
TIS NOT ONLY THE LUCK OF THE IRISH
CELEBRATE THE DAY OF THE GREEN AT BLIMPIE WITH OUR SPECIAL
Buy One Regular Sandwich Get the Second One for FREE
SHARPBOOK SIZE
SnJDEOT COMPUTER SYSTEM
LBOm
Cnrng:
moAtaaiai  u
nooooooesohh
3520 FORBES AVENUE PITTSBURGH, PA. 15213 
412/682-2210
C">8 to*'
Featuring Extended 
Basic, and optional 
integrated Printer/ 
Microcassette 
Recorder 
PCI250 Pocket Computer-$80 
CE 125 Printer/Ca**ette-$130
Continuous Memory 
24 Digit Thermal Printer 
AC or Rechargeable battery 
power
Tape counter and Standard 
Cassette Controls 
Vinyl carrying dase 
Tutorial instruction handbook
16
 Advanced Slide Rule 
Functions
 CMOS 8 Bit CPU for fast 
processing
 Features Extended Basic 
Language
 18 User Definable Keys
 22K RAM.24K ROM
 24 Digit LCD Display
Printer/Microcassette recorder includes 20 application programs
CALL TOLL FREE 800 621-1269 EXCEPT 01 tnois, Alaska. Hanaii
Accessories discounted too Mastercard or \Asa by mail oc pnone Mail Cashier s Cneck Money 0*0. Pers Check (2 mks to dM Sorry no CODs Add $4 001st item (AK, HI. PR. Canada add MOO fret item) S100 ea add'lsnpg Share* Shpts. to IL address add 6% tax Prices suty to change WRITE (no cads) tor tree catalogALL ElEK-TEK MDSE IS BRAND NEW, 1 ST 0UAI AND COMPLETE
ELEK-TEK. ine
6557 N Lincoln Av* Chlcogo 1160645 (900) 621 1269 (312)677 7660
CAU 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions____________________
(1)  First Session: May 1 7  June 24, (2)  Second Session: June 27 - August 5 *  Graduate Course Number
Chemistry
Civil Engineenng
Computer Science
Mathematics
Mechanical Engineering
Metallurgy and 
Materials Science
Physics
Statistics
Bomedica! Engineering: 
Architecture
Design
Music
0? 105Dynar .ics and tquilibria10 units(1)09 1 1 7Of garc Chemistry I9 units(1)09 218Organs Chemistry II9 units(2)
1 2 207Statics9 units(1)12 208Dynamics9 units(2)12-211 
15-1 n
Solid Mechanics 
introduction to Computing B
9 units(1)
(non-Fortran)9 units0 &2)15-118Introduction to Computing C9 units0&2)
21-112Calculus II (h8i$S)10 units(1)21-121Calculus I10 units(1) (2)21-122Calculus II10 units(1) (2)21-259Methods ot Applied Math I9 units(1) (2)21-260Methods ot Applied Math ll9 units(1) (2)
24-121Thermodynamics9 units(1)24-141Statics and Dynamics1 2 units(1)
27-322Process Metallurgy12 units(1&2)27-332Physical Metallurgy II9 units(1 8t2)27-350Industrial Projects Seminar0 units(1&2)27 390Industrial Internship OptionC units(1&2)27-755'Metallurgical ProblemsVar units(18t2)27-756'Masters ProjectVar units(1&2)27-775-ThesisVar. units(18c2)39-300Analysis, Synthesis and Evaluation9 units(1&2)
33-12133-122
Physics 1 Mechanics (self-paced) 
Physics II Heat Waves and Optics10 units(1) (2)
33-123
(self-paced)
Physics III. Electricity and Magnetism10 units0) (2)
(self-paced)10 units(2)33-129
36-101
Electronics I
Statistical Concepts with Computer
1C units(1)
36-209
Applications
Probability and Applied Statistics for9 units(1) (2)
36-210
Management and Social Science1 
Probability and Appiied Statistics for9 units(1) (2)
36-211
Management and Social Science ll 
Probability and Appiied Statistics for9 units(1) (2)
36-212
Physical Science and Engineering 1 
Probability and Applied Statistics for9 units(1) (2)
Physical Science and Engineering i9 units(1X2)36-215Probability and Statistics l9 units(1) (2)36-216Probability and Statistics ll9 un.ts(I) (2)36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(1) (2)36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis ll9 unitsCl) (2)
42-500Physiology9 units(2)
48-200 through 48-299
Architectural Design Level llVar units(1) (2)
51-102Introduction to Design18 units(2)51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(l)f2)
57-151Harmony6 units(2)57-181Solfegel6 units(2)57-228Chamber Music3 units(2)57-255Counterpoint 1(a)6 units(2)57-257Orchestration 16 units(2)57-407Form and Analysis6 units(2)57 454 57-000
Jazz Improvisation
Applied Study in voice, piano, organ, 
harp, violin, viola, vlolincello. string, bass, 
guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, 
french horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba.
3 units(2)
composition6/12 units(2)57-581Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop3 units 
9 units
July 18 22
July 18
Art
'Graduate art courses 
are 9-18 units
Administration and 
Management Science
Economics:
E'^glish
History
Psychology 
Modern languages
57-835Workshop in Choral Conducting9 unitsJuly 25-
57 855Conducting Symposium9 unitsAug5 
June 2?.
57-867Administration and Supervision inAug 5
Photb Education6 units(2)57-873-57-875-
Principles of Music Education 
Contemporary Problems in6 units(2)
Music Education6 units(2)
60-11 7.31 7.71 7*Drawing9 units(2)60-224Art and the Computer9 units(2)60-226,336.736-Painting9 units(2) 60-231.33TBeginning Screen Printing9 unitsMay I;, 
June 360-233,333.733-belief9 units(2)60 235,335,735'lithography9 units(2)60 237,337,737-intaglio9 units(2)60-245Glass9 unitsJune 3 24
(2) :60 345Advanced Glass9 units60-239 349,749-Ceramics9 units(2)60 254 354.754-Metalcrafts9 units(2)60-380.780-Contemporary Art9 units(2)60-387,787-Aspects of Art and Photography9 unitsMay 1?. 
June 3
70-101Elements of Industrial Administration9 units0)0)70-121Accounting 19 units0) (2)70-311Organizational Behavior 19 units0)0)70-332Government and Business9 units(2)70-361Foundations of law9 units(2)70-371Production 19 units0)(2)70-381Marketing I9 units0)70-391Finance 19 units(D(2)70-422Cost Accounting9 units(2)70-471Production ll9 units(2)
73 100Principles of Economics9 units(1)73-250Intermediate Microeconomics9 units0)73-300Intermediate Mac roeconimcs9 units0)
76-100Strategies for Writing9 units0)0)76-101Fiction and Fact9 units(1) (2)76-244Shakespeare9 units(2)76-265Survey of Genres Poetry9 units(0(2)76-270Writing for the Professions9 units0)(2)76-351.751-American Fiction and Poetry9 units(1) (2)76-371.771-Rhetoric in Social Interaction9 units0)
79-220Contemporary America9 units0)0)79-235Sex and Death9 units(2)79 308Recent American Foreign Policy9 units0) j79-356The Second World War9 units(l) (2)
85-101General Psychology
Paris 1983 
Germany. 1983
9 units0)
Aug 5
Carnegie-Mellon University, during the 
summer, 1983, will hold two six-week ses
sions as follows:
1 st six-week session
May 17 - June 24
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd six-week session 
June 27 - August 5
Regular Graduate and Undergraduate 
Courses
Undergraduate Tuition:
$59 per unit  All undergraduates
This is a "tentative" list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response. 
Application materials and further 
information will be mailed upon receipt of 
your inquiry. 
Please give your tentative reply as soon 
as possible by completing the attached 
form and returning it to: 
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 578-6620
Carnegie-Mellon Universil
Name________________________-
Mailing Address.
Present School
am interested in the following courses: 
Course No. Title Session
Please return this form to: 
Director, Summer Studies 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

In this issue:
Scott Alburger
Caleb Corkery
Keith Recker
Lisa Chimento
Diane Thodos
Matthew Durril
writing by

---------------------------------------------------

atdVnvh
Viewpoint
Sitting between windows on a bus 
Inside a window, beside the park
4
Tropic
5
Untitled
poems
illustration
poem
art
poem
art
Caleb Corkery 
Lisa Chimento
Matthew Durril 
Evan Knauer
Keith Recker 
Diane Thodos
Johnny's Eyes and 
The Meaning of a Successful Cigarstory
art
Scott A burger 
Evan Knauer
Cover artDiane Thodos
Viewpoint I find it disappointing to watch critics and scholars debate over the question of
whether Joyce or Hemingway is the more important writer, or whether Picasso or 
Monet is the better painter. The critics seem to be judging the value of the artists' 
intents. This judging depends on a misguided notion that for art there is one correct 
purpose and one correct style.
Well, I'm baffled and amazed.
Then the deadline comes and, prank submissions aside, the staff sits around a 
table trying to decide what gets printed and what gets rejected. What are good 
guidelines for deciding? The staff took one as primary: publish a wide range of 
styles.
The voices represented in this issue display a variety of purposes, and achieve 
their purposes through a variety of methods. Within the next year we would also 
like to begin to publish criticism that focuses on finding interesting ways to read and 
look at the achievements of the past.*
Gregg Hower
Editor: 
Assistant Editor: 
Design Editors: 
Contributing Editor: 
Fiction: 
Poetry: 
Production Staff:
Gregg Hower 
Judy Merrill
Amy Morton, Beth Bangor 
John Cantine 
Cath McCafferty 
Lauren Schneider
Todd Cochran, Lisa Chimento, Melissa Robin, Arthur Silber

---------------------------------------------------

Sitting between windows on a bus
Like blinds on a racehorse 
life is brought thin 
upon impulses.
Never second glimpses 
over bridges 
at the bend in a river, 
or old barns far off 
worn into a hill.
Caleb Corkery
Inside a window, beside the park
I once tried watching the children upside down
And chuckled at the thought-how easily they might fall
the head seems so far from the ground
top heavy, so they hunch and lean against being tall.
Arms left swinging above the earth
while hands grab air in each clutch,
they must dream of bounding through dirt
in a chase, controlling direction upon a touch.
Each stride a gift back to the world 
from this gifted animal, considerably rare 
coordination is life, everywhere unfurled 
An insight of fortune, my privilege not to share.
He closes the curtain to cut down the glare
And rides a pair of spokes down the ramp by the stair.
Caleb Corkery

---------------------------------------------------

4
Tropic
my body 
in some tropic
heat-shimmered tendons strain
against the points of prods, pressing to break
and I cry out
my body surviving the days 
of some tropic
shreds of scaffolding 
eddy madly about my feet
and I cry out 
against my body 
wanting to end this tropic
knifing winds kiss 
echoes voicing old words
and I cry out 
my body 
in tropic
grabs at holds
and just as soon releases, splintered
I do nothing 
but cry out.
Keith Recker

---------------------------------------------------

5
Blindness on rough terrain 
Hiding from your corregated sympathy 
Backfisted with your looks 
Consumed by our history 
Charred and peeling off the bone. . .
Bound and gagged 
Garroted with your smiles
How many times have you scraped me off your shoe?
M. Durril

---------------------------------------------------

6
13
&
u
QD 0 
0)
8
CO
One two three four this beginning of ours 
ponders to see what is up. Or down. Let us begin 
our focus on a tiny nature, on ones twos to 
three or a tinny boy named Johnny and his 
quest for self-realization. His name is Johnny as 
is or wonder at his lack of lightning.
Taking by the hand, Johnnys father is a 
businessman or more succinctly a business and 
Johnny is listening.
"Johnny, says Father, "take out the gar
bage can.
And Johnny does because, more impor
tantly, he is listening and forgetting.
Johnny was bom in 1960 and he had 
watched a lot of himself growing up. His 
mother, a rotund lady, sat by him most of the 
time and offered him suggestions as to when to 
eat and when not to eat or how great the sky 
should be. Most of what mattered was slated or 
prostrated into a boil of beans which Johnny 
could consume at his leisure or admitted. 
Because of his lack of age he was often forced to 
be young. Getting some meaning and this is as 
good as we continue. "Eat up, she says, "This 
bowl of yours was purchased through, in part, 
the wonderful generosity of your father. John
nys eyes why open, he blurps a look around and 
succeeds in bibbing a forkful. "Ik me in tah 
wahn ah, says Johnny in his baby talk and only 
years later did he realize the importance of his 
statement. Before the bowl was finished he was 
to throw no chews down his throat, the last one 
saving of a throw at mommy. Throw the food at 
mommy. In mommys face. Lest the big mess 
spoil the toil of upbringing in mommys years, 
she grabs the spoon and smashes it across little 
Johnnys face. And the little eater starts crying 
in his head because it has all been a dream and 
he knows that grows patient. So this is the start 
of the convict of our tiny story and Father 
comes into the house saying something about 
the noise.
While most of the food stayed on top of 
the radiator the progress said a slow sleep. That 
is to say, Johnny, in all his interesting stretcha
ble limbs, began to stop and put things away in a 
filing cabinet and could not get these things at 
all out. Because his young mind was thinking 
and the most he could was sit upright.
So he grew about a year old* and then a 
few more and found himself in first grade as a 
desk looking up the girls skirts a new under
wear. Father would say, "How was school 
today, Johnny? and Johnny would reply some
thing about color and texture and Father would 
continue reading the paper or muse about such 
work.
"Let me feed you your little dinner, says 
mommy and already you can see the forkful of 
niceness beginning to touch out of the top of 
her head. "Ill just kick Father and wake him up 
and down. Johnny is the one talking now and 
he kicks them all up and down and laughing 
because he thinks that they dont know that he 
is the one spooning them across the face now. 
Father and mommy pick up Johnny and throw 
Johnny out the kitchen window so his longer 
getting arms begin to crack blood because of the 
broken glass. Get a paper piece of towel red. 
Johnny stands up and is amazed to find himself 
still leaning in a big pile of blood in the middle of 
the street. So he sleepwalks back from into the 
house and kisses them goodnight again, burps a 
vow of engines and snuggles away in bed.
So now this time of story has its means of 
one Johnny, one mommy and one Father and it 
ends as said set. Here we have plot, character 
and dialogue agog with no luck lack of sufficient 
action. Yet Johnny, with all his rest does want to 
contemplates action against at a later date. Bash
ing spoons and salient threats are all possibili
ties, of course, but thinks Johnny wants some 
better mode of dangerous events. Let them have
him have the last word. "The word spells fexpec.___. t  *  t> *  *  *.    ** *  t.t torant expectorant,
Johnny was apt to say to his teacher at the
spelling bee at school. He won and was awarded
to the sixth grade.
"Johnny is an able student the teacher 
replied, "but he seems so angry or maybe just 
frustrated. Mrs. mommy adjusted her seat and 
understood the structure of what the teacher 
had said. "Im afraid I dont know what you 
seem able to try to mean, of course, came 
mommys answer. They stood upright, shook 
hands, laughed and mommy took her car keys 
out of her handbag. The spelling achievement of 
Johnny deserved good and does every boy a 
favor. Note to Father and he would surely put 
down the paper.
But Johnny smiled and thank-youed with
out a linger and continued to consider modes of 
accomodation revenge as he walked awake to 
his room. Not knowing really the extent of his 
plans as it was not yet fully developed or explo
ited he waited for curse cause of inspiration. "I 
think Ill be going to bed, goodnight to both of 
you. Up and up he goes and well still see him 
later.
Johnny focusses on the ceiling of his room 
and stayed there for a long time. Most of his 
room does not need his own description and his 
eyes adjusted to the weight of the ceiling. Eyes 
closed. Nice and dark. Eyes open. Eyes open. 
Beginning to be nice and dark. Yes, yes, this 
recurrance was beginning to uccur as a begin
ning again. Familar and yet it was as if it was. In 
anticipation, placing his head deeper in a pillow, 
he began the dark. It was only him but it was 
like somebody taking his hand walking into the 
no-see elevator shaft with no bottom. Its him in 
an empty room. Just alone. So Johnny closes his 
eyes once more, realizing that what he is about 
to see is very important but will not be remem
bered as the insides come out. A moment of 
terror and he replaces his leg beneath the covers 
and exhales to a loss of control. Its just him in 
his bed alone. And as he removes himself from 
himself his eyes open into a stare which 
becomes bigger and bigger and eventually turns 
into a huge eye the size of his body which flops 
over the sides of the bed, dilates and closes with 
the heavy push of darkness.
All is out in Johnnys world now. And if 
you knocked on the door you would find it 
lock! and no answers. So mommy and Father 
sit downstairs and watch television while out
side, several people run around in the dark with 
no clothes on.
And so Johnny oozes into the night for 
hours and hours. And a fat man runs up to us 
and shuts a book closed in our face. Johnnys 
sleep is his own business and we have no halfright to make it ours. All that can be conjectured 
is that it certainly must have had to deal with 
horrible images of eating utensils, motherly and 
fatherly types, etc., childhood. Due by this time 
pretty trite stuff. A sharp hatpin goes right

---------------------------------------------------

through Johnnys eye. It is still darkness in his 
own little world comparable paired to it, the 
world, Johnnys life is two A.M. on Hwlwbe But 
it is all of the it for Johnny. No matter else is 
darkness he is alone.
Here comes Thursday morning. Johnny 
opens the door and mommy is also awake, feed
ing Father his broken eggs fast. "Let me make 
yours in a frying pan, she says. Johnny does 
and hurries off to school while catching his bus.
All goes well at school and Johnny wins 
the acclaim of several noted scholars. As a ninth 
grader, he is determined to become all that he 
can be as a determined tenth garder. Yet he feels 
a need to rebel or an orange urge to de-cell. He 
fluctuates between up and out as a need to run
cent narrator to make. Until school was over, 
this continued.
Johnny placed himself at the dinner table 
with the yellow and white centerpiece. Father, 
rising from a living room chair, settled himself 
next to the television to the right of his seat and 
mentioned to mommy about how difficult work 
was today. Mommy espressed her poigniant 
grief while passing the scalloped potatoes over 
from the kitchen counter. It was five-fourtyfive. Johnny remained speechless but glanced 
over at the television to some news reporter 
mouthing the words to a story about a big arson 
in Chester. Mommy and Father closed their 
eyes to pray a blessing on the food while Johnny 
still stared at the the thing about the fire
away. Just then, sitting at his desk, Johnny 
strikes upon an idea that causes him to put 
down his pencil. Father is a businessman and 
mommy is rotund and since he has become a 
from the two of them, so the best thing to 
circumstance is to run away from home. Strike 
back as in the ultimate reprisal. Mommy, in all 
her feeding would cry and realize her stuck into, 
and Father would get angry or do something. 
And Johnny would be free to do what he pleased 
in an opener world. Run away from home after 
dinner after school.
"Now class, Johnny here will explain the 
fourth chapter of the book from the omniscient 
narrators point of view, in which the protago
nist is seen as the embodiment of the social 
order. Johnny, This is the teacher of Johnnys 
tenth grade class talking. And then Johnny says, 
"The protagonist is seen as the embodiment of 
social order in that the reader is not only able to 
see the social values reflected in his actions but 
able to see the reasons for these actions as well. 
This is due to the fact that the omniscient 
narrator is able to probe the characters mind 
for values and their meanings. Johnny con
tinued for a considerable length while at the 
same time thinking about his plan to escape 
after school after dinner. It would be difficult to 
interrupt his schoolwork but it was the price to 
push out. Johnny was knowing he was nobodys 
feeder. 'The imposition is caused by the omnisithrough the corner of his half-shut eye. Eyes 
other open and dinner is served.
"Have some more scalloped potatoes and 
ham, Johnny. she said. "Have another roll. 
She says. "How was school today? Johnny, how 
was school? says Father. Johnny doesnt feel 
like talking. No thanks, Johnny is thinking 
about after dinner, thats all. The food is an 
eating pile and his mouth goes up and down. 
Mommy and Father continue their talks to the 
left-out and pause to look to the T.V. at right. 
Johnny finished plate and wipes mouth clean 
with a red paper napkin. He feels a first begin
ning new hairs on his chin. Pushing away from 
the table, he goes takes his plate and stands 
upright, walking over to the kitchen counter he 
puts his plate up and down. "Excuse me he 
talks out softly. His parents wonder.
Johnny goes up to his room and puts a lot 
of stuff in a suitcase along with things that he 
values. It is a shame to go but the go. His two 
ones who made him were not really all that bad 
in a way to say more. It was with some nostalgia 
that he viewed back in the light of his own new 
independence but no. The move on pr >gress on 
of lives. He spelled his own contempt out and 
resolved to make the best out. Packing away, he 
quickly but catiously closed the door of his 
ceiling and headed down the stairs.
"Mommy, Father, goodbye. He turned 
away from them and walked to the door. Father

---------------------------------------------------

looked over the living room and asked Johnny 
was saying that he was running away. Fathr 
turned a red color and stamped over to his son, 
grabbing him by the collar. You ungrateful 
punch in the stomach. You fistful of age in 
Johnnys chest. Father threw Johnny to the 
floor and started beating on his head with his 
fist. There were several loud cracks before 
Father reached for the letter opener. Johnny 
just lays there on the living room floor with his 
eyes staring open, blood coming out of his ears 
and shaking.
So now our little one of story takes fair 
predictable course. This is, Johnny of dearrer 
hears the eyes again as no escape. Poor fairer. 
But now reavengement is only he seems less 
distinct but more placeable on the floor. So far 
he eyes sleep in his saline room. Johnny waves 
on in a muttering sort of moan until he comes 
up again and now he is twenty-four years of and 
now he has the real ability to make a successful 
change in gloss life. He will try again. All hope 
does consider. Revenge.
Johnny wakes up on Tuesday and forgets 
to take out the trash but his mind is else where it
is. Johnny is twenty-four and is a business own 
as his fathers business. As forgetting still living 
at home. But he makes to think about moving 
out to get an apartment with his girlfriend. 
Since and since he has a job so one with a high 
pay he thinks about eventual settling down. 
Maybe even have a kid. But this walling would 
be for in a few years. Still as now, Father was 
retired and living well at a reasonably season of 
these age., and mommy says, "Im always happy 
with Daddy at dinner. Johnny continues to 
stare at chips.
So there is not really much else to do. We 
watch and then ramble over. Johnny goes 
screams in a still dream head. This bottle of ants 
in an old part of the celler. But now mommy. 
"Have some more potato salad is met with. 
Like a one or two to three. So a tiny nature 
turns out like birds happy to jump on their 
heads. The sky turns sunny and all the flowers 
appear for the final chorale. Johnny sits there 
shaking and bleeding and everybody laughs, 
claps and the curtain goes down and up. Talk 
about summer and the changing currents and 
how foolish it was over a good cigar.
if \/m I prp rrcflti\/P Pt II
for the Senior Issue of Dossier.
Send submissions of
short stories, poems,art, photography, 
creative essays, crossword puzzles, or paw prints
to the Tartan Office or Baker Hall 135G in care of the Dossier Editor 
or contact us at X2112 or X3567.
Deadline is March 31 at 4 p.m.
(no extensions. please.)

---------------------------------------------------

reek Sing: An Entertainment Special
Gladys Knight.
Two groups broke out of this mold to a 
small extent, Delta Delta Delta and Chi 
Omega. The Tri-Delts won first place with 
their selections from Starting Here, Starting 
Now, an obscure musical that provided 
some hot tunes which were matched by the 
high-kicking choreography.
Second place in the sororities category 
was won, not by Chi Omega, but by the 
group that did the best job at the dense 
pack choreography. Kappa Alpha Theta 
made a fortunate choice of music, combin
ing upbeat tunes from Pippin with colorful 
costumes and some lively dancing.
There were only three entries in the mixed 
category. The brothers and little sisters of 
Theta Xi performed selections from Joseph 
and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat. 
Delta Tau Delta did a rather slow-paced 
version of The Time Warp from The 
Rocky Horror Picture Show, but recovered 
with the solo number.
First place in the mixed category went, 
not surprisingly, to Pi Lambda Phi, which 
performed Impossible CMU Songs, a set 
of songs about CMU problems sung to pop
ular tunes. First place overall went to the 
Tri-Delts, with ZBT second.
Another group deserving mention was 
Kappa Sigma, whose Jumpin Jive really 
did jump, and, coming early in the evening, 
did a lot to wake the crowd up. And scoring 
high in the originality column had to be the 
brothers of Beta Theta Pi, who performed 
well-known songs from television land. The 
crowd enjoyed this enough to call them 
back for an encore, whereupon they gave a 
dramatic presentation of the Airco Techni
cal Institute commercial.
Perhaps the most unfortunate part of the 
evening was the fact that the admittedlycavemous Syria Mosque was only half-full. 
Greek Sing is a great way to raise money, 
and the Easter Seals Society is no doubt verv 
giateful, but it is too bad that the campus 
could not get behind the effort more.
By JOHN CANTINE
Tartan Associate Entertainment Editor 
If Greek Sing is here, can spring be far 
behind? Friday night at the Syria Mosque, 
the fraternities and sororities of CMU strut
ted their stuff, performing selections from 
musicals, well-known tunes, and original 
songs, with the $2.50-a-head admission 
going to benefit Easter Seals.
The groups were judged on such items as 
group tone, the difficulty of music, original
ity, and entertainment value. The judges 
were all local music instructors and 
choreographers.
When the smoke had cleared after Greek 
Swing on Saturday night, the brothers of 
Zeta Beta Tau came out on top in the frater
nity category. ZBT performed pieces from 
Gilbert and Sullivans Pirates of Penzance, 
and did a very good job with the tonguetwisting lyrics. They matched the fast-paced 
tune with lively choreography, filling the 
stage with brightly-colored pirates, bobbies, 
*nd the very model of a modem major 
general.
The decision must have been a tough one 
or ^e judges, for in second place were the 
Mothers of Delta Upsilon. DUs perfor
mance of songs from 1776 was every bit as 
well choreographed as ZBTs Pirates, the 
ostumes were perhaps better, and the pro
duction as a whole was probably the most 
Wished of the evening.
Another Broadway musical, Guys and 
bolls, provided the music for the third place 
Eternity, Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Luck 
,vasn 1 quite enough of a lady to give them 
,rst Place, but SAE kept their production 
11VlnS- and featured one or two fine solos. 
The sorority pieces showed less diversity 
1 the fraternities. Unlike the frats, who 
Jsetl electric guitars, trumpets, and drums, 
e sororities used simple pianoaccompani11(111- I'he choreography was less imagina1Ve> and relied on large groups of people 
taking the same movements at the same 
inie, like a multitude of Pips with no
Above: ZBT won first place in the fraternity competition with a colorful performance of 
The Pirates of Penzance. Photo by Rhoda Funk.
Below: The Tri-Delts took first place in sorority competition with Starting Here, Starting

---------------------------------------------------

PAY YOUR BILL ON TIME
Chi Os Kathy Viaropulos pointed to
Delta Upsilon brought colonialism to stage with 1776.
(TO: LEARN YOUR LESSONS WELL)
By Heather Newton
I can see the board of trustees sitting yonder 
and theyre leaving students terror-struck 
Inflations down, but they havent noticed 
and they want twelve-hundred extra bucks.
Youd better pay tuition 
or forget about admission.
Going broke is a CMU tradition.
Sell your firstborn for that last dime
and if youre smart youll pay your bill on time.
Any good philanthropist worth his salt 
would be appalled at what weve gotta do.
Tuitions going up, sky high, all right, 
but wheres the money going to???
Not to pay professors.
Not to heat nor feed ya.
Andrew Carnegie where are you when we need ya?
Sell your firstborn for that last dime
and if youre smart youll pay your bill on time.
Guys and Dolls wa
Well were waiting here in Robot-town 
For the education we never found 
For the promises that Cyert made 
Quality teaching 
Financial Aid
ROBOT-TO
("ALLENTOWN" BY BIL
By Steve Lammert
Well were living here at CMU,
And we share a building with Sigma Nu 
It can really be a problem; still 
Wed rather be here 
Than up on the Hill.
Well the freshmen think that were all the same,
But theres a dozen different places and names. 
Theres eleven now, cause ATO 
Cut down a tree;
They had to go.
And were living here at CMU,
But Oscar says our rents overdue,
And its getting very hard to pay ...

---------------------------------------------------

photos by Rhoda Funk and John Stilwell 
Lyrics courtesy of Pi Lambda Phi
Thetas Mary DeLeon laid down the law during Pippin selections.
CYERTS QUEST
hus the Dolls ...
So well graduate in four or five years 
When IBM is all you will hear 
Cause they never taught us what was real 
Selling out students 
Making a deal
And were waiting here in Robot-town 
But tuition isnt going to go down 
And its getting very hard to pay ...
Evry student had a pretty good chance 
To study architecture, music or dance.
But something happened to the humanities 
They forced a personal computer on me.
And were living here at CMU 
But all of my assignments are due 
And there isnt even time to pray ...
And we wont be getting out in May 
And were living here at CMU.
(THE IBMPOSSIBLE DREAM)
By Arthur Benjamin and Heather Newton
To dream the impossible dream, 
to fight for what students condemn 
prepare for the school of tomorrow, 
to run CMU-IBM.
To write the unwritable plan, 
the best of my brilliant career, 
to drive M.I.T. out of business, 
to make NEWSWEEK two times a year!
This is my quest, 
to stay in the black, 
and charge every freshman 
to learn how to hack.
They'll pay for the right 
without question or pause, 
and be willing to go into debt 
for a dubious cause.
And I know if Ill only be true,
and the game never stops,
that my plan and my system wont crash,
and my school will be TOPS.
And the world will be better for this, 
that one man with one measly Rolls-Royce, 
still strove with each goofballs tuition 
to make THE PROFESSIONAL CHOICE.
A.k.a. Jim Morris, DTDs Dr. Frankenfurter of Rocky Horror strutted his stuff.

---------------------------------------------------

5
</>

z <
A
S N
O N
o a
1\Sy pFF egH 
Phe
*ga wpfPpg Pau Phe 
EVPhuav: c/c-/mc
Fast, Free Delivery
c-y N\ Cuehi .C\
GUpga: 6m-r-7yy
I
1-\yy pFF egH -6 
Reuia Phe I
*ga wpfPpg Pau Phe 
EVPhuav: c/c-/mc
Fast, Free Delivery
c-y N\ Cuehi .C\
GUpga: 6m-r-7yy
*Jf&>okbook
. MOBY f & 
DICK If
t  o p
r *o t>Q x
We wrote the book on free delivery...
\\\egs hCv naag e navC 
vaRRau Fpu pdau ty Haeuv\
MUa vCpuHL IC naihgv OhCU 
Hpfu PUpga weRR egs agsv 
eC Hpfu sppu OhCU e UpCl 
saRhwhpfv Phe saRhdauas 
hg cy 'hgfCav wu Ravv
bp'hgpv Ghe hv wuhChweRRH 
ewwReh'as ev CUa #- 
vpfuwa Fpu FevCl Fuaa 
saRhdauH\ CUawD fv pfC\
Fast.. Free Delivery
Open for lunch
-- e' r te' .fg\ r MUfuv\ 
-- e'rc e' Fuh\ & .eC\
6m-r-7yy
c-y N\ Cuehi .C\
*fu suhdauv weuuH Ravv 
CUeg 1-y\yy\
Lh'hCas saRhdauH euae\
1981 Domino s Pizza. Inc.
