The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 14, January 24, 1984.
Tuma perishes despite rescue attempt
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The third CMU faculty member in a little 
ver a month has died.
All three deaths have been dramatic in 
ature. William Chase died while jogging, 
nd Kunio Sakan committed suicide. On his 
vay to work last Wednesday morning, Dr.
vid T. Tumas Volkswagen Rabbit 
kidded from the snow-covered Parkway 
3ast through two traffic barriers. His car 
hen tumbled down a 50-foot embankment, 
it a tree and plunged into the 32-degree 
lonongahela River.
Two motorists who witnessed the accient, Gregory Pekich and Robert Mattiko, 
imediately jumped to the rescue.
Mattiko exclaimed, I could see his face, 
ly only thought was to get him out. There 
as human life there, and I couldnt watch 
im go down.
So Pekich and Mattiko dove into the 
lonongahela, racing to save Tuma before 
e Rabbit sunk beyond their reach.
For five or six minutes the two men 
'orked chest-deep in the icy river to get 
uma out. The door was jammed from the 
ash. And Pekichs and Mattikos hands 
ere so numb that they could not release 
uma from his safety belt and shoulder 
rness.
Finally, Mattiko was able to pull Tumas 
ead above the surface of the water. Still, the 
vo would-be rescuers could not get Tuma 
ut of the car. Eventually, the helpless men 
atched the Rabbit slip beyond their reach, 
'ach.
Yet the two men still would not give up. 
ekich and Mattiko staggered to the riverink where someone handed Mattiko a 
ain. Mattiko struggled back to the Rabbit
"/ could see his face. My only thought was to get him out. There was 
human life there, and / couldn't watch him go down."
and managed to attach the chain to it. He 
got back to land where he hooked the other 
end of the chain to his truck and towed the 
upside-down car partially from the water.
At that point, Pittsburgh paramedic Rick 
Valles arrived. He severed Tumas seatbelt, 
releasing him. According to Valles, Tuma
had no pulse and w^as not breathing.
Valles, other paramedics and two physi
cians applied emergency techniques at the 
roadside in an attempt to revive Tuma.
From there, they transported Tuma to 
Presbyterian-University Hospital w'here 
Tuma was pronounced dead from drown -
DAVID TUMA
ing over an hour later.
Pekich reflected, It was the most frustrat
ing thing in my life. If only Id been a little 
stronger, maybe I could have gotten the door 
open.
It makes me sick, said Mattiko. If only 
I could have gotten his seatbelt unlocked, I 
think I could have saved him."
Some may question the use of safety belts 
after this incident. But Willliam Hunter 
from the Department of Transportation 
warns that seat belts save more lives than 
they cause deaths.
Alternatives such as air bags are av ailable. 
However, they must be researched further 
before they are a perfect solution. Experts 
currently question their duration and sensi
tivity in an accident.
Tuma, a CMU electrical engineering pro
fessor since 1971, wras rated as one of the top 
ten teachers at CMU by CFA dean Akram 
Midani. His background bears out such 
claims. Among his acclaimations were the 
Ryan and 1980 Western Electric Fund 
awards for teaching excellence.
Engineer Education called Tuma a dedi
cated and enthusiastic instructor who makes 
learning an exciting experience by challeng
ing his students with assignments that 
reflect real-life problems.
His colleagues agree. President Richard 
Cvert praised Tuma as a leading educator 
and researcher. He was extremely loyal to 
the university. He was always concerned 
with what was best for the university. 
Former electrical engineering head. Dr. 
Angel Jordan, said, David was an out
standing teacher and researcher, full of 
enthusiasm and dedication for his 
students.
continued on page 3
yert garners position on H. J. Heinz board
y JEFF HENDRIX
rton Staffivriter
Dr. Richard M. Cyert, President of 
megie-Mellon University, was elected to 
e Board of Directors of the H. J. Heinz 
Ibmpany on January 11, 1984, as it 
Ixpanded from 19 to 20 members.
I Di. Cyert believes the expansion of the 
loard is temporary, citing the possibility 
I iat some of the present members will withI raw from the board following the upcomI ig annual meeting.
I In addition to Heinz, Dr. Cyert is a direcj)! of Allegheny International, Koppers
n this issue
iitorial
I* I means communication .... page 22
views
lie Tartan Readership Survey ... page 2
Computerized wheelchairs.............page 3
matures
verythings is a quaik.....................page 5
aller heads English Department . page 7
ntertainment
artan music survey.........................page 11
le H' festival: Surprise!.........page 11
ports
ends fall in tennis .......................page 15
sketball losing streak at nine .. page 16
Company, Inc., First Boston Corporation, 
American Standard, Inc., Copperweld Cor
poration, and White Consolidated Indus
tries. While this appears to be a rather 
extensive involvement, Cyert mentions, I 
am very careful that I do not violate the 
one-day-a-week consulting rule.
In evidence of this, Dr. Cyert withdrew his 
membership on the board of directors for the 
Lord Corporation of Erie, Pennsylvania, in 
order to accept the position with H. J. 
Heinz. Provost Angel Jordan of CMU will 
replace Cyert on the Lord Corporation 
board, of which, Dr. Cyert added, the 
owner is giving us (CMU), along with three 
other schools, the controlling shares of the 
company.
Close relations between Heinz and 
Camegie-Mellon are a long-standing affair. 
According to Cyert, CMU and the Heinz 
Company, though Jack Heinz (Chairman 
of the Board for Heinz), have always been 
very close. Jack Heinz has been on the 
Camegie-Mellon board for many years and 
contributed a lot of money.
When asked his reasons for involvement 
with the boards, Cyert replied, I like being 
on boards because it helps me improve my 
management capabilities. Its very good to 
see the problems that corporations haw and 
how they handle them. Secondly, Im in a 
good position to get additional firms here 
(to CMU) to interview our students. And 
thirdly, it gives me a real help in fund rais
ing. Many of the people I meet on these 
boards are presidents or chairmen of other 
companies, and as I get to know them, Im 
able to tell them a lot more about CamegieMellon. This leads to contributions to the 
university from these corporations.
CMU also benefits from Dr. Cyerts mem
bership on these boards through what he
referred to as matching gift programs. 
When I give money to the university, its 
matched by these other corporations, 
explained Cyert. As an example, Dr. Cyert 
stated that the gift this year of $10,000 from 
his wife and himself will net an additonal 
$30,000 for the university through these 
programs.
photo by Eric Targan
Pittsburgh faced record-breaking, subzero temperatures and six inches of mow last week.

---------------------------------------------------

the Possibilities
*Writing 
*Paste-up 
Photography 
*Ad Design
New Members Meeting 
Tonight
8 p.m., Skibo Room 12
The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1984The TartanPage 3
I BCE professor dies
I continued from page 1
Current elecrical engineering com
mander, Stephen Director, credited Tuma as 
one of the most important members of our 
I department. We cannot begin to know the
full impact of his loss.
At his death, Tuma had been working on 
a sense of smell for robots, the hardest of all 
the senses to duplicate. It may sould like a 
silly thing to want robots to be able to do, 
but men like Tuma hope that someday 
I robots will use their olfactory senses to help
mankind. The research is aimed at making 
mining safer, catching drug traffickers, 
detecting poisons, identifying people, ana
lyzing chemicals and even making gourmet 
delicacies taste better.
Tuma leaves behind a wife, Antoinette, 
and two children. He was a native of Beirut, 
Lebanon and was an honors graduate there 
at American University. He earned his doc
torate from the University of California at 
Berkley and has since published 33 articles 
on elecrical engineering and two books on 
teaching.
photo by Mark Murphy
Tumas Volkswagen was pulled from the Monongahela onto the Parkway East
Friedman designs computerized wheelchair
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Contributing Editor
A computerized wheelchair is one of 
many unknown projects currently under 
development at the Rehabilitation Institute 
of Pittsburgh.
The aids range from using an eye-tracker 
for communication to eyebrow switches as 
means of controlling machines, and are 
designed for the children at the Rehabilita
tion Institute."
Mark B. Friedman, Research Engineer in 
the Robotics Institute and volunteer Direc
tor of Rehabilitation Engineering, heads the 
volunteer effort in developing computers to 
aid the severely handicapped.
Many children, due to disease or acci
dent, are trapped in bodies they cant conxol, explained Friedman. We hope to 
nable handicapped chilren to better express 
heir needs.
The computerized wheelchair is designed
to allow maximum movement within a 
limited space. The wheels, which were 
designed in Sweden, are constructed of 
diagonally-placed rollers mounted on a 
cylinder. The chair was donated.
The wheelchair can rotate on its own 
axis, move diagonally without turning, and 
can be controlled by a joystick. The volun
teer group is developing better sensory and 
microprocessor-based controls to make the 
wheelchair more responsive to both its rider 
and its surroundings.
Another project currently nearing com
pletion is the eye tracker. The communica
tion device is controlled by the persons gaze.
The size and shape of a computer termi
nal, the front panel is composed of eight 
liquid crystal display units equally spaced 
around a circular opening through which a 
camera views the childs eye. The camera 
follows the eye as it moves from one display 
to another. Using synthetic speech, thecomIt's being done in 
automobiles and living 
rooms. Over coffee 
and cake. By people 
like Madeline Mitza and Theresa Barbieri.
They met when Madeline was in treat
ment for breast cancer 
and Theresa was the volunteer who drove her to her therapy ap
pointments. Now, like 
Theresa, Madeline is bringing help and 
hope to other women as a Reach to Recovery volunteer.
Madeline and Theresa are living proof 
that it s people who 
give people the will to live. The work in the lab 
must continue. And so must the work outside. We need your help.
SOME OF THE MOST IMPORTANT WORK FOR CANCER IS BEING DONE OUTSIDE THE LAB.
SHARE THE 
COST OF LIVING
Give to the American Cancer Society.
THIS SPACE CONTRIBUTED AS A PUBLIC SERVICE.
Ad No. 0782-0 (2 col. x 130 lines)
puter can then say each word. To move to 
the next screenful of words, the child looks 
up; to go back to the previous screenful, the 
child looks down. This device allows speech 
synthesis for the very severely handicapped 
who have only eye movement.
The idea of the eye tracker has been pre
viously used by the military as well a< by 
psychologists and advertisers. The volunteer 
group took the necessary functions and built 
the eye tracker for the handicapped to use at 
home or in the school.
Other more basic projects concern devel
oping single and multiple switches for the 
computer, building control devices which 
use knees and eyebrows, and developing 
educational programs to teach children con
cepts they are unable to experience, such as 
being below or behind something.
Friedman received the first annual 
Decade Award last year from the Handi
capped Challenge Foundation of Allegheny 
&m-------------------------------------:----------
County. The award was given in the name 
of the W^estinghouse Electric Corporation. 
Friedman was cited for his research into 
applications of robotics and microelectron
ics to aid the severely handicapped.
The volunteer group consists of high 
school and college students and professors 
but is comprised mainly of CMU people. 
Friedman has headed the effort for the last 
five or six years and stresses the need for 
people from all educational backgrounds
who have several hours to spare every week. 
The group has a formal meeting every 
second Wednesday evening at the Rehabili
tation Institute on the comer of Shady and 
Northumberland. The next meeting will be 
on February 1.
If you are interested in joining the volun
teer group call Dr. Friedman at x3824 or 
leave a message at the Rehabilitation Insti
tute, 521-9000.
DO YOU WANT TO BE A RESIDENT ASSISTANT?
If you are interested in applying for an R.A. position 
for the coming year, you should attend one of the 
interest sessions. The final interest session is on:
Tuesday January 24 9:00p.m. Wherrett Room
Every applicant must attend one of these sessions. If 
you have any questions, please contact the Housing 
Office at x2139.
&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&&
PUBLICATION 910
is a handy IRS publication that de
scribes yearround IRS N (V 
services, assistance, _ 
contents of frequently] 
requested IRS publications, and con
tains an index 
of many other 
free IRS publica
tions. Use the 
handy order form 
in your tax package to order
Publication 910.
a bom o i counseling servire* 
leiih imrmih and 
diqnil y I rom people 
U'ho care
^Allegheny
Allegheny 
Womens Center
dn out patient 
medical clinic olferm
* dbortion* free ptegndncy tests* personal counseling* birth control services* gynecologicdl idre* Morning Alter Iredtinent
362-2920
Madkal Center it Building 
Ptntkmnt Right (Ith Hoot) 
211 Sort* Whitfield eel 
Pittsburgh, PA 1S2M
OAKLAND GOLD CARD
...Don1t shop 
in the 
community 
without 
it!...Enjoy 
20% off at 
selected 
retail 
businesses.
 111) r. f-. S SAVE 
Apply for the most respected Card. QP,Romotioh6 (412)621-2000
NO ONE REFUSEDI Membership Fee: $3*50 iaa Oakland Avanua 0 Pittaburgh

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
Readership Survey
-
Sex: Male_Female__
Class: Freshman_Sophomore__Junior__Senior__Graduate  Staff __ Faculty 
College: AMS  CFA CIT_ GSIA _ H&SS _ MCS _ SUPA _
How often do you pick up The Tartan?
weekly_2 or 3 times a month__once a month 
one or twice a semester_less than once a semester 
How often do you read the following sections of The Tartan? (use the scale below) 
(1)weekly (2)two or three issues a month (3)once a month 
{4)once or twice a semester {5)less than once a semester
News_Features__Entertainment 
Sports_Editorial 
Opinions/Letters to the Editor  Funnies 
Events_Announcements 
If you were an instructor giving The Tartan a grade, how would you grade each of the 
following? (use the scale below)
A is excellent B is good, C is adequate, D is inadequate, and R is poor
News __ Features __ Entertainment __ Sports __ Editorial _
Opinions/Letters to the Editor _ Funnies _ Events  Annoucemerrts 
Feel free to use an additional piece of paper to answer the following questions.
Does The Tartan provide adequate coverage of campus news and events?
What section of the paper do you like most? Why?
What section do you like least? Why?
What news do you feel The Tartan should report that it presently does not?
What would you like to see more or less of in:
News _________________________________________________________________
Features_________________________________________
Entertainment_____________________________________
Sports___________________________________________
Editorial__________________________________________
Opinions/Letters to the Editor.
Funnies__________________
Events___________________
Announcements.
What other improvements would you like to see in The Tartan?
Any other questions, comments, suggestions and/or 
Thank you for completing this survey.
opinions?
When you have completed 
the survey, you can send it to 
The Tartan via campus mail 
or you can drop it off at The 
Tartan office (Skibo 52) at 
any time. If you are interested 
in uniting for The Tartan , 
you can come to a meeting 
for new members tonight at 
8:00 p.m. in Skibo, room 12, 
call x2111, send computer 
mail to EM0D@td, or drop 
by The Tartan office 
anytime.
EXHIBITION AND SALE OF 
ORIGINAL GRAPHIC ART
A unique collection of etchings, woodcuts, lithographs, 
serigraphs, and watercolors by fine old master and 
contemporary artists from around the world.
Camegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
In the Highlander Room, Student Union 
Thursday and Friday 
January 26 and 27, 1984 
from 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
ARRANGED BY
fcrtson Cjatfe't/es
6 Shawan Road  Hunt Valley, Maryland 21030 
62 Village of Cross Keys  Baltimore, Maryland 21210
Sponsored by the 
Office of Student Activities
(PURCHASES 
MAY BE CHARGED!

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
'hemistry professor left lasting impression
|y DANIEL DURKIN
jrtan Staffumter
Although almost everyone has heard of 
tragic death of Professor Kunio Sakan, 
F people know about the man and his 
lork. Sakan not only contributed his talents 
the Chemistry Department, but he has 
Iso left a lasting impression on his colLgues and students. Aside from being an 
itstanding researcher in his field of 
inic chemistry, Sakan was also a teacher 
tho had a great deal of interest in his stuents. He combined a high degree of profeslonalism and hard work with his decency 
a human being, which is indeed a rare 
jmbination.
Sakan was bom in Japan on February 8, 
B)44. He graduated from Tohoku Univer|ty in 1970 with an MS degree in Organic 
lemistry. From there, Sakan attended the 
University of Western Ontario, where he 
hceived his doctorate in 1975. He then 
[orked as a Research Fellow at Harvard 
fniversity under R. B. Woodward, who was 
forking on the total synthesis of erythro
mycin. Sakan was recommended for his 
position at CMU by Professor Schreiber, 
who is presently teaching at Yale Univer
sity. Schreiber was originally offered the 
position, but he recommended it to Sakan 
because there was good opportunity at 
CMU.
In 1981, Sakan became an Assistant Pro
fessor of Chemistry after being offered the 
position by a representative of CMU. Sakan 
made two very important contributions to 
the Department of Chemistry, one of which 
was his research, and the other was his effect 
on teaching. In the field of research, Sakan 
worked on the synthesis of compounds with 
potential antitumor and antileukemic activ
ity, a problem which had eluded chemists 
for over a decade. He also conducted 
research with colleagues from the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, and he was quite 
successful.
Besides being innovative in the field of 
research, Sakan also changed the traditional 
attitudes toward teaching. The Chemistry 
Department, instead of teaching vague basic
skills, now emphasizes the practical skills 
which chemists in the field utilize in their 
everyday work. Sakan was largely responsi
ble for this change in teaching practice. His 
views on teaching reflected his attitude 
toward his work; he was constantly striving 
to improve. In addition to this, Sakan also 
pushed for better and more modem equip
ment for his department, which would ena
ble his students to improve their skills.
As a teacher, Sakan worked very closely 
with his graduate students, who numbered 
about forty. This closeness with his students 
made Sakan very popular with them, and at 
social events it was common to see him sur
rounded by a group of his pupils. Sakan was 
a congenial mentor who always worked 
with a great deal of intensity and concentra
tion. He brought out the best work in his 
students, but he was also forgiving when a 
mistake was made.
Sakan earned the respect of his students 
and his colleagues through his intelligence 
and his personality. A number of his col
leagues have said that Sakan had a unique
ability for finding the crux of problems 
which baffled other people. This tremend
ous insight into problems accounted for his 
outstanding achievements in the field of 
organic chemistry. But Sakan was also 
greatly admired by a number of people, as 
evidenced by his memorial service held on 
Thursday, January 19. Many people from 
off-campus attended the service, including 
Professor Schreiber from Yale.
Despite the strong ties Sakan had with the 
United States, he also kept in touch with his 
Japanese heritage. Sakan was a proud man 
with high values, and he taught his children 
to speak fluent Japanese as well as English 
so that they would keep in touch with their 
family and their heritage. Sakans wife, 
Hiroko, and their three children will be 
returning to Japan sometime at the end of 
January. Sakans father and brother, both 
organic chemists, are also living in Japan. 
Dr. Sakan will be sorely missed by friends 
and students alike, and the CMU commun
ity sends his family its best wishes for the 
future.enny and Squiggy recall 
esult of "missing crew"
|y BILL GARRISON
arian Staffwriter
A capacity ballroom crowd braved the 
;)ld and snow last Wednesday to hear 
brmer CMU drama students Michael 
ticKean and David Lander talk candidly 
Dut their lives and careers. Better known 
Lenny and Squiggy from the former sit3m Laveme and Shirley, the two actors 
jumorously reminisced on their ten months 
CMU before they were expelled for varThe reasons.
When asked for the reasons of expulsion, 
ander (Squiggy) replied, They kicked me 
it for failing crew. I was told that if I failed 
tew, I wouldnt be asked back and would be 
^nt to Vietnamand die. McKeans rea>n was, I had difficulty getting to sleep at 
fight and therefore had trouble getting up 
the morning.
The two went on to explain how the char
ters of Lenny Koznowski and Anthony 
luigmund were created 18 years ago when 
ley were roommates. We used to call ourlves Lenny and Lenny while playing 
ese fictitious characters for fun,
explained Lander. Then when we took the 
act to New York and California, the produc
ers changed my name.
After leaving CMU, both went back to 
their New York hometowns: Lander to the 
Bronx and McKean to Sea Cliff, Long Island. 
Eventually they enrolled in the School of 
Performing Arts at NYU. Less than a year 
later, McKean stated, we got kicked out of 
there too.
Following NYU, they went to California 
in 1970. There, they made several records, 
toured as Lenny and Lenny and later as 
Lenny and The Squigtones. Five years 
later they landed their first major roles 
together on Laveme and Shirley. Playing 
two backward truckers, they added to the 
craziness of the long-running sit-com.
One highlight erf the evening was a show
ing of their new pilot, Lenny and Squiggy 
go to the Army. Seeing what those two are 
capable of, the show should be like the 
Three Stooges in the Armed Forces. Another 
notable moment was a poem-routine they 
called Babyland: By Emma Fozdick. In it, 
Squiggy narrated a child-like poem about 
his mother using that unique nasal-tone
hysicist Kisslinger discusses the "quarks" of life
has ever seen a quark. People have been 
looking for quarks for 20 years, and no one 
has ever seen one.
Kisslinger believes that there are other ele
mentary particles  quarks  in the 
nucleus besides protons and neutrons. The
y PAULINE W. KRAMER
artan Contributing Editor 
Leonard Kisslinger, a CMU particle physist explains that protons and neutrons are 
ade of quarks. It is the elementary particle 
ut of which everydiing is made. But no one
Bob Fishel
LEONARD KISSLINGER
DAVID LANDER and
voice. Accompanying him was a dopey, 
uninterested Lenny who mumbled an inter
mittent refrain and laughed that Koznowski 
laugh.
The atmosphere that night was made 
comfortably informal by these experienced 
actors. The evening ended with questions 
and answers. When asked about the food in
photo by Pauline Kramer
MICHAEL McKEAN
65, they replied, We never ate here. We 
went down to Pitt to eat because their cafete
ria was better. And how did college then 
compare to now? We didnt haw herpes 
back then! The diseases were much different 
when we went to school. The drugs too. 
Things werent bad for you back then like 
they are now.
evidence for their existence in nuclei has 
been so strong that nuclear physicists, who 
were convinced that the nucleus was com
prised solely of protons and neutrons, have 
begun to change their tune.
From what Kisslinger calls a physics 
sociological point of view, nuclear science 
was nuclear physics in 1940 or 1950. Around 
1950, a new subject named elementary parti
cle physics emerged. Nuclear physicists 
looked at the structure of the nucleus and 
elementary particles.
According to Kisslinger, the discovery fit 
into this new quark theory, where protons 
are considered very complicated. The siudy 
of the proton and objects like the proton 
becomes a topic which is very much like 
nuclear physics. The proton is no longer a 
particle, its a complicated structure and its 
a many-bodied problem.
In the 1950s, there was a revolution, which 
changed the existing concept of a nucleus. 
Physicists lecogniied that protons and neu
trons can go from a ground slate to a higher 
state by being bombarded with beams of pani
cles from a cyclotron (a particle accelerator). 
This energy excites the particle and creates a 
new form of matter a pun from the proton. It
was found that there were hundreds of particles 
like the proton; we were just trying to under
stand what they were and how they' interacted 
with other particles when put in a nucleus, 
says Kisslinger.
The revolution continued into the 1960s 
where a new theory was developed after 
looking at these hundreds of particles: there 
were some elementary particles that were 
neither protons or neutrons, they were 
quarks.
Nuclear physicists claim that there are 
three basic forces in the nucleus: strong, elec
tromagnetic, and weak. Particle physicists, 
who believe that physics is a many-bodied 
science, claim that electromagnetic and 
weak forces are really the same. The point erf 
contention between particle and 
nuclear physicists lies in the strength 
of the forces between the quarks.
Wed like to think that strong, electro
magnetic, and weak forces all come from the 
same meson (middleweight) state. If you 
have two particles, protons, for example, 
exchanging a meson, and one proton emits 
a meson and the other proton catches it, it 
causes a force, explains Kisslinger.
continued on 

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanJanuary 24, 1984
CMU prof. bridges 30-year gap in nuclear science
continued from page 5
The revolution centers around the fact that 
physicists no longer think that the strong 
and weak force are produced by these 
mesons. New there are some more funda
mental types of objects which are like 
mesons and, according to Kisslinger, have 
no structure in these theories. This had 
given physicists a new approach in unifying 
all the forces. These new parades have pre
dicted the masses of the new W and Z 
parades which cause the weak forces 
among the quarks.
The W and Z particles were discovered 
this year at the CERN (Center for European 
Nuclear Research) laboratory in Switzer
land. The theory had made some predic
tions about masses.
We now see a very saong verification 
that these theories are correct and we should 
be doing our nuclear physics starting with 
these theories: that since these partide theo
ries, say, of the W and Z giving the weak 
interaction, are based on the idea of quarks, 
says Kisslinger. One quark sends one of 
these Ws out and the other quark catches it. 
That causes a weak force. If we were to do 
this in nuclear physics, we know that there
are weak forces in the nuclei, so we have to 
develop a theory for nuclear structure based 
on these quarks. Now we have a two-fold 
job: to understand how nuclei are composed 
of quarks and to fit these theories in nuclear 
physics.
According to Kisslinger, nuclear physidsts 
can study problems in terms of quarks with 
the help of elecaon scattering from the - 
helium 3 isotope of two protons/one neuaon. Experimenters excite the nucleus by 
bombarding it with saong forces and study 
how the neuaons and protons form quickly 
and are held together by gluon forces.
One of the goals is to see if we can find a 
smoking gun. Namely, nuclear physics has 
been going on for a number of years and a 
number of theories have been written down 
in the old-fashioned language. One of the 
things Im looking for is experiments which 
can only be understood in terms of the 
quarks and cannot be understood in terms 
of the old-fashioned ideas, says Kisslinger.
Kisslinger explains: These theories
might have in them some sort of principle 
called confinement, which is that it is 
impossible to have a particle with color to 
exist by itself because it would use infinite
COMPUTER SCIENCE 
AND ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING MAJORS
THE MOVE IS ON TO
... A REMARKABLE COMPUTER COMPANY with locations through
out the U.S. and Canada. ROLMs breadth and diversity are apparent in its expand
ing divisions:
 TELECOMMUNICATIONS designs and manufactures digital com
puter-controlled business communication systems for voice, data and text 
switching and management.
B OFFICE SYSTEMS develops and manufactures office of the future 
products.
 ROCO sells and supports these products through a national sales and 
service network.
 MIL-SPEC COMPUTER develops. manufactures and sells ruggedized 
computer systems.
MOVE ON TO THE FREEDOM OF ROLM, where high value is placed on 
personal initiative, creativity and rapid career movement and where the spacious, 
award-winning environment was designed with your personal and professional well
being in mind.
Well be on campus 
Monday & Tuesday 
January 23 & 24
Interested candidates are invited to join us for an INFORMAL PRESENTATION 
on Monday, January 23 from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m. at Skibo Hall, Room 11. Refresh
ments will be served.
Our environment requires individuals with a high degree of initiative, strong 
communication skills and demonstrated leadership abilities. For this recruit
ing season, we are primarily seeking computer science and electrical engi
neering candidates with BS and MS degrees. New graduates join project 
teams as Hardware or Software Design Engineers (working in areas such as 
digital telephones, data communications, local area networks, packet switch
ing, linear predictive coding of voice, realtime software and relational data 
bases).Production Engineers (introducing the product to the manufacturing 
process), or Product Support, Sales or Field Service Engineers (providing 
customer support). Qualified candidates who are unable to secure an inter
view slot will be considered if they submit their resumes via the Engineering 
Placement Office
Contact Your Placement Office Now for an 
Appointment and Literature
A FEW MORE REMARKABLE FACTS ABOUT ROLM . .
 Tuition reimbursement for graduate study, comprehensive health, dental 
and life insurance, profit sharing and stock purchase plan.
 3-month paid sabbatical after 6 continuous years of employment
 Active housing program for all new hires.
Additional information may be obtained from Shirley McDonell, Recruitment Admin
istrator, Mail Stop 350. ROLM Corporation, 4900 OkJ Ironsides Drive, Santa Clara. 
CA 95050 We are proud to be an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer.
CORPORATION
energy. The quarks must be clustered 
together. He says this confining aspect 
makes the theory especially complicated. 
When one wants to see these quarks individ
ually and aies to separate them, the forces 
become infinitely saong and infinitely com
plicated. This is why nuclear physics plays a 
role in trying to understand these forces: if 
you could just make a beam of quarks and 
scatter them from other quarks, they could 
study the forces. The knowledge has to be 
acquired indirectly.
This year Kisslinger is examining the 
nucleus of the helium 3 atom; he concluded 
that the mathematical model predicts that 
15% of the time two nucleons in this atom 
are six quark matter and one percent of the 
time three nucleons comprise nine quark 
matter. Last August, we (Kisslinger and a 
post-doc at the University of Washington) 
recognized that we had solved a long
standing problem in understanding how 
elecaons scatter from the helium 3 isotope at 
large momentum transfer. This gives us 
great confidence that quarks comprise a 
valid picture. Six and nine quark matter is 
entirely new which is of great saentific 
interest.
The forces which glue the quark together
 gluon forces  become quite saong and 
completely unmanageable at large distan
ces. At short distances, nuclear forces work 
from the meson or middleweight exchange.
Two years ago Kislinger mathematically 
delineated these distances: at a short distance 
nucleus Ls described as composed of six 
quarks; at a larger more conventional dis
tance, the nucleons are described as interact
ing with nuclear forces. This initial sketch
of the nucleus being composed of some
thing more than just protons and neutrons 
was created on a plane to Switzerland 
shortly before his sabbatical in 1981. The 
basic model still holds: quarks which exist 
in two separate nuclei are unable to escape. 
However, when they are brought together 
by a force, the quarks combine to form sixquark matter, evenly distributed in each 
nucleus.
Using this foundation, Kisslingers first 
year of quark research involved scattering 
the deuteron, a neutron and a proton bound 
together, from which he learned that the 
characteristic distance at which one should 
go from a six quark picture to the traditional 
picture is one fermi (10 to the -13 centime
ters). The neuaon and proton in the 
deuteron are within this one fermi three 
percent of the time.
Kisslinger says that in order to be truly 
quantitative, improvements are needed in 
the model, such as redoing elecaon scatter
ing experiments and making th analyses 
more quantitative and predse. He feels that 
it returns nuclear physics to the ultimate 
destiny of testing fundamental interactions.
One of the things I find most interesting
 going back to the soaology of nudear 
sdenceis that my interest and the interests 
of nuclear physidsts are now coming quite 
close together. The 30 year divergence where 
nuclei were being studied in terms of neu
aons and protons (and elementary particle 
people were trying to find new particles), are 
now being unified in terms of these quarks 
and gluons, elecaons and W and Z mesons. 
And these new objects are now universal for 
both nuclear and particle physics. Its a 
wonderful unifying thing thats going on."
FREE 
WALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE 
Beginning January 23, 1984 
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs. 
7 p.m. - 10 p.m.
WRITINGBaker229B
CALCULUSPorter225C
CHEMISTRYBaker245
PHYSICSPorter226B
HrSS MATHPorter226C
PHILOSOPHIC METHODS/Baker235A
SOCIAL VALUES
Sponsored by Couseling 8c Student Development Center. Division of 
Student Affairs.
K*
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Lone coupon per ordersave $1.00
off the regular price of a Gyro and Drink 
with this coupon at
NI KO'S MO*
424 Semple Street 
Take out & Deliveries - 681-6608 682 -8608 
Expires Sept. 31,1983 
 not good with delivery or any other special offer  mm <

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1984The TartanPage 7
New English head Waller redesigns lit program
By VICTOR JAMES
Tartan Staffwnter
If you had a clear slate and were asked to 
redesign what a Literary Studies program 
should look like, what would you do?
I told them and they hired me and it has 
been the most exciting six months of my 
academic life, Gary Waller replied.
The above is an exchange which took 
place between Dr. Waller and CamegieMellon University. It all started about two 
years ago when the CMU English depart
ment wanted to revolutionize their Rhetoric 
and Writing programs. Then, the head of 
the English department was Dr. Richard 
Young. He was responsible for working the 
program into one of the best in the country. 
However, it was an exhausting job. Seeing 
this, the Univeristy embarked on an exten
sive search for a new department head; they 
found Dr. Waller.
Waller was bom and raised in New Zea
land. He attended the University of Auck
land for Literary Studies and then traveled
to England to teach at Cambridge Univer
sity. There he received his doctorate degree. 
Waller then moved to Canada where he 
spent a total of 12 years teaching. He headed 
an English department there for 4 years. He 
arrived in the States last summer.
I started off as a very solidly trained tradi
tional historian, said Waller. But about 10 
to 15 years ago, some of us sensed that some
thing was happening. It had to do with the 
integration of English into the world. 
Waller went on to say that he has become 
much less traditional and much more inter
ested in the theoretical, philosophical and 
worldly aspects of literature. Wallers imme
diate goal is to change the way people think 
about literature, to push the study of texts 
and literature into the world. People think 
that one can only analyze text, but I feel that 
literature is all around us. There is literature 
in music, radio and television. Literature is 
not just in dusty old books; it is no longer 
isolated.
Waller accepted the position at CMU
DR. GARY WALLER
photo by Colin Rafferty
Fight winter depression: 
experience relaxation
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffwritrr
Has the snow dampened your spirits? 
Does the cold make you feel isolated? Youre 
not alone. The Western Psychiatric Institute 
nd Clinic reports an increase in the number 
[of depression referrals during these winter 
(months, and a Newsweek on-campus poll 
shows that one out of every eight college
students has seriously considered commit
ting suicide.
But dont despair! There are many things 
you can do to get yourself out of a rut. For 
example:
 Examine your feelings and find out 
whats bothering you. If you can figure out 
continued on page 21
because it was a very forward-looking 
place in which to work. Carnegies inter
disciplinary system really attracted him. For 
here at CMU, the English department con
tains Technical Writers, Cognitive Psychol
ogists, Computer Scientists, Rhetorical 
experts and Social Scientists. Waller feels 
that these components of the English 
department will aid in the integration of 
literature into our present culture. Waller 
states: There are still people who think that 
great works of literature are escapes from the 
real world. I dont believe thats true. I 
believe it is worldly and must be placed 
within culture as a whole.
Dr. Waller is excited about the adminis
trative staff at CMU as well. He senses a nice 
lack of bureaucracy about the department. 
The staff is dedicated to and enthusiastic 
about their work. But most importantly, 
Waller says that the administrators are 
expected to. be intellectuals. And thats 
really unusual, adds Waller. An adminis
trator ordinarily orders pencils and pages
through furniture catalogues. But here, they 
think.
Waller and the rest have been doing some 
concentrated thinking to come up with a 
new and improved curriculum for the Eng
lish department. It will emphasize the 
study of literature within the analysis of Cul
ture. There are three keywords to his new 
program: language, history and culture. 
Waller plans to design rigorous methodo
logical courses in these areas.
Wallers new program hopes to equip 
CMU students with the skills necessary to 
read and interpret and analyze literature. 
Whether in the reading of texts, newspapers 
or magazines, students will be able to put it 
all in a social perspective. Waller also hopes 
to foster a love and appreciation of a huge 
variety of different kinds of reading and writ
ing. However, one must not see these as 
separated from the rest of life. He feels that 
the more control we have over how lan
guage works within society, the more power 
we have in the world.
TMorewood Gardens
presents
VlUNCH W ^1IVETY
fine food fine musicGQ7VIE 'ENJOY
...Wind down the week with us...
EVERY FRIDAY (PURCHASHUUEC 
(MUUECY SMBBEC
CMU's MUSIC DEPT joins MOREWOOD GARDENS to present its finest
university
diningservice
Computer Source
Carnegie-Mellon Student Specials from COMPUTER SOURCE Columbia Data Products Authorized Dealer:
The products that give you the highest level of 
IBM-PC software compatibility. We beat the 
IBM-PC with more hardware capability for 
less money, plus . . . we give free!!! over 
$3,000 worth of software ... before you buy 
anything . . . check us out... we have desk 
top and portables, Mannesmann-Tally prin
ters, both the Spirit-80 and MT 180L. Also, the 
II Comrex CR1 letter quality printer, monitors, 
300/1200 baud modens ... we can satisfy all 
your present and future computer needs . . . 
and remember to ask for your special student
discount . . .
Computer Source, Inc.
3766 William Penn Highway 
Monroeville, PA 15146 
(412) 829-1721

---------------------------------------------------

AB LECTURES PRESENTS: 
A Comedy Show
by
Steve Landesberg
(Dietrich from Barney Miller)
Thursday February 2 
Skibo Ballroom
Tickets available at the 
Skibo Information Desk 
on Thursday, January 26
$1.00
- - Come See Landesbergs 
Las Vegas Show at CMU - -
Funded by Activities Fee
BS/MS EE/CS GRADS
If youre a bright, innovative EE or CS grad
uate with a Bachelors or Masters degree, 
wed like to make you part of the VALID 
team, where youll work on state-of-the-art 
systems in a sophisticated state-of-the-art 
environment running UNIX* on Validdesigned hardware (based on 68000 & 
8086 microprocessors). We have challeng
ing opportunities in the following areas:
 UNIX Internals
 Mechanical Design Software Engineering VLSI Tools
 Placement & Routing
Well be on campus 
Friday, January 27
\AIIP
The interactive approach to CAE.
After youve talked with us, we think youll 
see that The Valid Solution is the logical 
career solution. With our excellent fund
ing, a top-notch team, a new facility and 
further expansion to come, your career 
stage is truly set for success.
Contact your placement office for an ap
pointment and for additional informa
tion. Or forward your resume and letter of 
interest to Marci Smith, Valid Logic Sys
tems Incorporated, 1395 Charleston 
Road, Mt. View, CA 94043. An equal op
portunity employer.
'UNIX is a registered trademark of Bell Labs
The Valid solution to digital systems and 
IC design problems is a system for inter
active computer aided engineering  the 
SCALDsystem. This system is based on a 
radically new, highly modular design 
method.
Building the kind of system that solves 
tomorrows problems requires the work 
of highly creative minds. In fact, weve 
hired some of the best,.and are proud to 
say the creators of the SCALDsystem are 
on our team.

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1984The TartanPage 9
Statistics departmentfinds new home in Baker
By LAUREN WEISBERG
Tartan Staffuniter
CMUs statistics department, previously 
located on the seventh floor of Wean Hall, 
has moved to a recently renovated two-story 
wing of Baker Hall.
According to department head Professor 
Stephen E. Fienberg, the move will be bene
ficial to the statistics department, as well as 
to the other departments which currently 
occupy Wean Hall. W7e needed more space, 
and since the department got to design the 
layout of the new offices, they are more 
likely to serve us well, he stated.
The new wing, which was renovated by 
James S. Pedone 8c Associates  the firm 
currently at work on the renovations of 
Hamerschlag Hall  contains not only offi
ces, but a lounge and kitchenette. The offi
ces are also supplemented by a coffee room, 
a terminal room, and a conference room.
Though previously located within close 
proximity of the Physics, Mathematics, and 
Computer Science Departments, Statistics 
has long been part of H&SS. Reflects 
Rosemarie Commisso, Statistics is part of 
H8cSS, so it is consistent that the department 
should be located in Baker.PPT holds director's forum following showing of K2
Memorial service held for CMU professor Chase
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan News Editor
A memorial service for Professor William 
Chase was held last Friday. Chase died 
December 16 of a heart attack while jogging 
on the CMU track.
Chase was a professor of psychology who 
gained notoriety for his research in the field 
of human memory.
The service featured comments and
remembrances by President Richard M. 
Cyert, Dr. Neal Chamess, Dr. Marcel Just, 
Dr. Robert Siegler, and Dr. David Klahr. 
Chamess is a professor of psychology at the 
University of Waterloo. Just, Siegler, and 
Klahr are CMU psychologists.
All five speakers praised the personal and 
professional efforts of Chase. He was cour
ageous, willing to say the unpopular, 
stated Just
BE IN THE 
FOREFRONT 
OF TODAYS 
TECHNOLOGY 
AS A
now is your chance to
K
M TH_Believe A or Mt/ %&e< SWEEPSTAKES
Details & cntrv blanks aval liable. f
The Grey Matter became the pink, orange, blue and everything else matter as the IT art 
festival hit Skibo.
Carnegie Mellon University
universitydining
sen/ice
Larry Arrick, artistic director of the Pitts
burgh Public Theater, will be guest speaker 
at the PPTs Directors Forum on Sunday, 
January 29 at 3:30 p.m., immediately fol
lowing the matinee performance of K2. 
Directed by Arrick, K2 is a riveting drama 
about two mountaineers forced to confront 
their fates in the frozen altitudes of the 
Karakoram mountains. The plays special 
visual effects include an avalanche as well as 
light and weather transformations on the 
mountain. The play was written by Patrick 
Meyers.
The Directors Forum, which will be 
interpreted for the deaf, is open to the gen
eral public free of charge. For those not 
attending the matinee performance, it is 
recommended that audience members arrive 
no later than 3:30 p.m. Sealing will be on a
first-come basis. The forum will last approx
imately one hour.
Pittsburgh Public Theater is located in the 
Hazlett Theater, next to the Buhl Science 
Center, in Allegheny Center, Northside. K2 
is running until February 12. For show 
times and ticket information, call 321-9800.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mtan to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
SCIENTIFICENGINEERING OFFICER
Our scientific-engineering officers are plan
ning and designing tomorrows weapon 
systems today. Many are seeing their ideas 
and concepts materialize. They have the finest, 
state-of-the-art equipment to test their 
theories. The working environment is con
ducive to research. And Air Force experience 
is second to none. You can be part of this 
dynamic team if you have a scientific or en
gineering degree. Your first step will be Officer 
Training School. Help us shape our future as 
we help you start yours. Be a scientificengineering officer in the Air Force. Contact 
your Air Force recruiter SSGT Bob Winterhalter
at 664-2705
A great wav ol Me
Jan. 25 - 31

---------------------------------------------------

Picker International, a world leader in Medical Diagnostic Imaging Equipment, offers excellent career opportunities in...
 Research
 Engineering
 Manufacturing
 Service Engineering
 Sales and Marketing
If you are among the best and the brightest, and are graduating with a
degree in...
 Electrical Engineering
 Computer Engineering or Science
 Mechanical Engineering
 Physics
 Marketing or Business
Picker International offers the opportunity to work with...
 state-of-the-art technology in the development of the most sophisti
cated health care equipment
 leaders within the industry committed to the advancement of 
technology
 a progressive management team that provides an open, energetic 
work environment where individual achievement and team results 
are emphasized
 employees who are dedicated professionals that work to the highest 
standards within every discipline
If this is the opportunity for you see your placement office 
()ur recruiters, will be on your campus
Friday, February 3rd
PICKER INTERNATIONAL
595 Miner Road  Highland Heights, Ohio 44143 
Creating tomorrows health care technology...today.
We Arc An Affirmative Adion/Kqual Opportunity Employer
CMU SUMMER JOBS! SUMMER COUNSELING POSITIONS
For nineteen years, Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity has offered outstanding programs designed 
to give high school students an opportunity to 
develop educationally and to discover if they 
have the necessary aptitudes/talents for further 
study. The Summer Studies Office, in conjunc
tion with the Division of Student Affairs and a 
staff of resident counselors, will coordinate and 
supervise out-of-class experiences to supple
ment and enhance classroom learning and 
provide a comprehensive precollegiate experi
ence for these students.
Applications for Summer Counselors are 
available now in the Summer Studies Office, 
first floor, Warner Hall. The summer program 
runs from June 25 to August 3.
SOPHOMORES 
2-Year Full Tuition 
Scholarships
Available Through 
Army Officer Commissioning Program
(Current Participation is Not Required)
Application Period:
Eligibility:
Selection Criteria:
Benefits:
Now until March 1, 1984 
Scholarship begins in the fall term
 2.8 cumulative Q. P. A. or better
 Full-time student
 Be less than 25 years of age on 30 June of 
graduating year
Based primarily on evaluation of academic 
achievement leadership potential and degree of 
success in college.
Pays all tuition costs, fixed fee on books and supplies, 
and provides $100 per month in school financial 
assistance (for up to 10 months each year the 
scholarship is in effect).
For further information, contact 
Captain Michael Schulte, Carnegie-Mellon University 
at (412) 578-2205. or visit our office 
at Margaret Morrison Hall, 2nd basement
kiltie cafe
Beat the cold weather BLUCS 
Join us for o
WINTER PICNIC
Tues.
JAN. 24 1964 
llam 2pm
uds
university
dining
service

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffwriter 
This is the age of the touring album. 
While most newer bands are having a hard 
time making money on the road, some 
older, established bands have been putting 
. out alb. ;ms not so much to offer 
new material but to bring their 
road shows around and cash in.
Van Halcn is the king of the 
excuse for a tour-party crowd, generating 
six essentially identical albums and embark
ing on a massive (and profit-yielding) tour 
for each. AC/DC has also been doing this 
for years, and Rainbow itself has been Rit
chie Blackmores excuse to keep going after 
Deep Purple (multi-talented artist Eddie 
Jobson has called Rainbow Ritchies gig, 
although current vocalist Joe Lynn Turner 
is changing this).
Another band whose prime word asso
ciate is tour is Judas Priest. First thoughts 
upon hearing the words new album are 
images of Rob Halford drenched in leather 
and studs astride a roaring Harley, KK 
Downing in his chain gauntlets throwing 
his bleached blonde head, and Glen Tipton 
firing from every classic guitarist stance, fin
gers flying.
Defenders of the Faith is, though some
times more than a tounng album, not as 
good as their metal masterpieces Sin After 
^in and Sad Wings of Destiny (copies of 
^hich Id like to send to pseudo-metalists 
such as Quiet Riot). Priest has changed, 
UIelating their sound to a more 1980s heavy 
me tal while not completely sacrificing their 
musical personality.
^ majority of the material will be superb
live. Free Wheel Burning moves very well
from Tiptons high speed solo to Halfords
rapid-fire vocals. Jaw Breaker sounds
more like the Priest of old.The Sentinel is the albums best song.
Another piece wrought in the Priest tradi
tion, it features strong lyrics belted in Hal
fords inimitable voice and a stereo trade of 
guitar licks by Tipton and Downing.
The second side is not quite as good as the 
first, but does have a few noteworthy pieces.
Love Bites! is an unusual love song with 
real potential for live performance. Night 
Comes Down is another foot-in-the-past 
song, slow and heavy with a harmonic uni
son solo and some of the only audible bass 
work of Ian Hill. Heavy Duty/Defenders of 
the Faith is a heavy metal rules anthem (in 
the fine tradition of Saxons Power and the 
Glory and ManOWars Gloves of Metal) 
that is rather trite but should come to life in 
concert.
The least Priest-like song is Eat Me 
Alive. The lyrics, which contain more 
innuendos than a George Carlin mono
logue, are metaphorically explicit and all 
the more violent in Halfords throaty voice. 
The major bad points are Dave Holland's 
OK, Ill stay out of the way drumming, 
Ian Hills drowned out of the mix bass 
playing, and the annoyingly judicious use 
of guitar solos.
continued on page 12
Tell us what music you want to read
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Asst. Entertainment Editor
Have you ever wondered if you were alone 
in your musical tastes? Ever considered what 
the average CMU student likes to listen to? 
Ever desired to know how many other stu
dents listen to your radio station? Well, 
the time ha* come to answer these questions; 
the 1984 Tartan Music Survey is here.
The survey has been designed to be as easy 
to fill out as possible ... if you follow the 
directions. First, find the column of musical 
styles, and place a 1 next to your most 
favorite. Next, place a 2 next to your 
second favorite, and a 3 next to your third.
Its that easy, so theres no excuse for not 
taking three minutes to fill out the form. 
Once you've done so, just drop it off in the 
box at the information desk, or at the Tartan 
offices (but please do so by Friday, January 
27). The results w ill be revealed in the Febru
ary 7 issue of The Tartan, so be looking for 
them!
The 1984 Tartan Music Survey
Please number your top three favorite areas of music (1 = most favorite).
Classical
Countn?'Western
Folk
Funk
Fusion
Heavy Metal
Inspirational
Jazz
Mellow-Rock 
Middle-of-Road 
MUZAK 
New Wave" 
Punk
Rhythm & Blues
Rock
Top 40
Other _______
Favorite Local Radio Station 
Favorite Artist or Group
[NOTE: In the interest of accuracy, please 
only enter one form.]
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
You couldnt get away from IT.
IT was all over.
Have you seen IT?
What?
IT.
What?!
IT! IT!
What? Where?
You get the feeling Abbott and Costello 
would have loved IT.
In case you missed IT, IT was the multimedia, campus-wide art presentation that 
came to a head last Thursday from 4-7 p.m.
IT was so big that a full report wont be 
available until next issue. But here are some 
thoughts on IT . . .
IT was surprising. Much of the campus 
was not prepared for IT at all. Whats 
going on? Its the artists! Theyre taking 
over CMU!
  
IT was pervasive. You could not help but 
be placed in the middle of IT, unless you 
holed yourself up in your room until IT 
passed over. Indeed, that was one of my 
favorite parts of IT  you were inside the 
art. IT was not like a museum of art  you 
go and look at the works at your leisure  
theyre not going anywhere or going to 
change in the next few thousand years. But 
IT was all around you, moving, and mov
ing rather quickly. Three hours, thats all 
you had to experience IT.
Do you wait 20 minutes for the Paint 
Your Room exhibit? (Whatever that is ...)
, or do you go down the hall and try to catch a 
whole segment or two of 9 Artists or do 
you take out twenty minutes and follow the 
Secret Marks and Cryptic Writings trail? 
Lots of decisions that must be made while 
standing in front of something almost 
totally incomprehensible . . . What were
Avant-garde art presentation takes entire campus 
by surprise; brevity exceeded only by bizarreness
those people in white-face doing? Will they 
finally do something to explain it? Should I 
wait long enough to find out? Or will I just 
end up missing something? A new innova
tion: Art with suspense!
  
IT was striking. IT appeared out of 
almost nowhere, blew up and blew away. 
Walking into Scie.. .er, Wean Hall early last 
week, one would notice a couple of scattered 
rocks, some smeared clay. Physical Plants 
doing something." A couple days later, cross 
that hall again and there are more stones. 
Clay tubes between stones. Little bits of 
organic stuff  everywhere! Physical Plant 
is doing something and I dont think its 
legal in this country. The next day. More 
stones, more clay, long strips of computer 
print-out paper with primitive little signs 
all over them. This aint Physical Plant
Or I went upstairs in Fine Arts to see what 
a friend of mines part of IT was. In this 
mass of images, sayings and performance 
art, I was really hoping to find a human 
being sitting in front of a nice framed 
thing that I could say hi to. And he would 
say hi back. No dice. There he was, face 
painted blue, wearing a suit and tie, sitting 
at a desk/console, reading something tech
nical, and totally ignoring me and everyone 
else. No more could the proud artist stand 
beside his work. Today the artist was the art, 
much to the confusion, amusement, and con
sternation of all who were thrown into IT.
He was scary. A human statement. There 
were other fairly scary things going on. 
Walking across the cut I caught sight of 
The March of the Damned. Thats my 
name for them, Lord knows what they 
called themselves. They were right out of a 
movie about The Black Death. Dressed in 
rags, carrying a tom banner, they floated 
slowly through the snow. They almost 
blended in with everyone else, until you did 
continued on page 12
photo by Colin Rafferty
Artist in a cage: The IT art exhibition left as quickly and mysteriously as it came, leaving 
many people stunned in its wake.
Defenders of the Faith: better live or in studio?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 24, 1984
"IT" exhibition takes campus by surprise
YOU!
SUBMIT BEFORE FRI FEB. 10^ 1984APPLY NOW AT YOUR 
NEAREST SKIBO 
INFORMATION DESK
JOfNTTHE FORCE
Be a Freshman Orientation 
Counselor 1984
continued from page 11
the required double-take. Pretty wild.
  
IT was funny. No, really, IT was. After 
being shaken up by the March of the 
Damned all you had to do was move your 
eyes slightly in one direction to catch sight 
of some partyers. They looked like they 
were having a grand old time, although they 
like everyone else seemed rather oblivious to 
the spectators. They may have been quite 
macabre, but at a distance they were hilar
ious. If you still dont think IT was funny, 
you obviously didnt catch the Aqua 
Madonna Dinerette.
Having accidentally sat in on a couple of 
their early rehearsals, I had a desperate hope 
that theyd be one of the best parts of the 
exhibit, and of course I wasnt disappointed. 
If you even peeked in the door of the 
dinerette you were immediately whisked 
in by Maitred Mark Wendland and trans
ported back to a 1940s night-club/cafe act, 
with those singing, dancing fine arts majors 
 The Aqua Madonnas.
Talking with one of the waiters after
wards, though, it seems even the Aquas took 
on the same sort of madness that seemed to 
flavor all of IT. The show was a six-minute 
circular act that kept on going and going,
The best thing about Defenders of the 
Faith is it signals another Judas Priest tour. 
The band has worked very hard to get where 
they are today, and most of the respect they 
have earned is a result of superb stage shows. 
If the Defenders tour is anywhere near as 
good as the Screaming for Vengeance tour 
 which featured unforgettable performan
ces of Sinner and Victim of Changes  
the best advice is if faced with a choice 
between the album and the show, see the
r -Jf* #
Notes: On the Screaming for Vengeance 
tour, Halford spoke of a forthcoming live J 
album. Though it would undoubtedly be j 
well received, no further word has been 
heard . . . Another band with a missing , | 
album is Queensryche. Their late summer, j 
self-entitled EP, which has been riding Bill- [ 
boards album chart since its release, came 
with the promise of a full-length album. OK 
guys, where is it?
BNAl BRITH HILLEL 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Join us for a Special Shabbat Dinner 
Friday, January 27 
5:30 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Room  Skibo Hall 
cost $3.00 
please RSVP  621-8875
Sponsored by the CMU Hillel Club
and going ... It was like the twilight zone! 
Everything that was funny was also 
bizarre or scary, or something!
At one point I tried to escape into the 
Deans office to collect my bearings  but as 
I got to the glass doors they flung open from 
the inside and out came a giant blue worm. 
There was no escape. I looked at my pro
gram: The worm ... will sing and cry .. 
Funny, and kind of sad, too.
  
IT was self-conscious.
In both the good and bad ways. You could 
see that some people were unused to perfor
mance art. They looked perhaps a little 
uncomfortable being the art instead of creat
ing it.
In the middle of the first floor of CFA was 
a spaced-out family watching something on 
a TV screen. What was on the screen was 
only vaguely comprehensible (the litde of it 
that I saw), but there was a golden moment 
when the set broke down. They kept staring 
at the blank screen, as if they didnt notice or
worse, didnt care. Totally in character it 
was wonderful.
And IT was self-conscious in another 
way. IT was constantly talking about ITself 
talking about art in general. Signs all over 
proclaimed various common but intelligent 
theories, viewpoints, opinions, etc. IT led 
you very carefully into a certain way of 
thinking. A sign next to the primitive cul
ture explained the concept and had space for 
comments. And someone was sticking little 
yellow pieces of paper with funny com
ments all over everything!
IT was, as I said, too big to discuss in an 
article. As art should be. But one of the main 
things I got from IT came out of a quote 
from Kirk Botulas part of the 9 Artists 
video (it was nine, wasnt it?).-He said that 
it wasnt so much what the art was, but the 
spirit in which it was intended and pres
ented that mattered. But what IT kept mak
ing me think was: is IT art? And I think ITS 
great success lay in the fact that IT didn't 
answer the question, IT forced you to ask it.Judas Priest album heralds tour
continued from page 11show.

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1984The TartanPage 13
Violence: But is it way to enjoy yourself?
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Hi there. This is my eolumm, and wel
come to it. Ill be writing it almost every 
week, except when theres nothing I want to 
say. Ill try not to write just to fill up space.
This week I do have something to say. It has to do with 
violence and entertainment  
the two really shouldnt go 
together unless youre a very sick person, but 
in todays society they go together hand-inglove.
Of course, weve come a long way from 
the colliseum shows. Even things like the 
A-Team dont really make it in the all
violence for entertainment category  mil
lions of things get blown up but (as I
understand it) no one ever actually gets hurt.
I can understand how violence is a con
structive outlet of aggression, and I totally 
agree that its much better to let it out by 
watching fake violence rather than partici
pating in the real stuff.
However, lately life has been imitating 
the art that was imitating the life in the first 
place. Violence is up. Everywhere. There are 
more than 20 wars going on in the world. Inci
dents of violence and suicide have flooded 
the campus in recent weeks.
And the entertainment world reacts. Look 
at comedy movies. We used to have Abbott 
and Costello, Laurel and Hardy, Woody 
Allen, etc. Things happen to them and we 
were on their side, hoping they would win.
Everyday items become artifacts 
at Blatent Image Art Gallery
An unusual non-photographic show 
opened at Blatent Image Gallery on Saturday, 
January 7, and will continue until February 
2. The show is called Arty-Facts; artist 
Judith Sullivan says it consists of cultural 
artifacts from the synthetic age.
Sullivan illustrates some of the more cur
ious oddities of life in the 1980s by taking 
everyday items out of their normal context 
and working them into exhibition pieces. 
Taken together, her collages and drawings 
and small sculptures form a time capsule of 
ordinary objects from our everyday world. 
By removing these objects from their ordi
nary settings and placing them in museumpieces, Sullivan makes these bits and pieces 
of everyday life take on new and funnier 
meanings. She often uses a local, news story 
or a verbal pun (such as Arty-Facts) as a 
point of departure for her pieces.
Arty-Facts will show through FebruaryPat Metheny to play Pittsburgh
On Thursday, February 9, CMUs AB 
Concerts presents an evening with The Pat 
Metheny Group. The concert will be held at 
the Carnegie Music Hall of Carnegie Insti
tute. Tickets are available at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk, the Pitt Ticket Office, and 
Heads Together in Squirrel Hill for $6.50 
with a CMU ID, or $9 otherwise. The con
cert is funded by Student Activities Fee.
Due to restrictions by both the Carnegie 
Music Hall and the band, there will be no 
smoking, alcohol, flashes, or recording devi
ces permitted in the Hall. A security force 
will be present, and these restrictions will be 
enforced.
Alone & Pregnant?
* Need Help?
Free Pregnancy Testing
For a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020.
Butler County 282-1200
CONTRACEPTIVES 
The Rubber Tree 
MAIL ORDER SERVICE
 Condoms - over 35 van etMS
 Foams. Creams, Jellies
 Books. T-Shirts, and
  ^ more
 10-40% BELOW RETAIL
FOR A FREE MAIL ORDER 
BROCHURE WRITE 
THE RUBBER TREE. DEPT MT2 
4426 BURKE N . SEATTLE, WA 98103 
A PROJECT OF ZPG-SEATTLE
2. Gallery hours are Thursdays through 
Sundays, 1-5 p.m., and Saturdays 11 a.m.-6 
p.m. (the gallery is now closed on Wednes
days). Blatent Image Gallery is located at 
4626 Forbes Avenue.
We hit a transition period with groups like 
The Three Stooges. They were violent, but 
so stupid they only hurt each other.
But now we have the new breed of comics; 
The Blues Brothers/Eddie Murphy/postSaturday Night Live type comedy. These 
people are funny but violent against peo
ple. But were still on their side. Its like a 
century long under-dog story: the hapless 
comic finally pulls himself together and 
defeats his oppressors.
And what foim of unprotected art on 
campus has escaped violence? Last weeks 
primitive sculpture in Wean was bowled 
over, last semesters Trianguloids were 
destroyed. Anyone can feel the urge. The 
work of art is sitting there like a childs 
snowman or sandcastle. No ones looking. 
Works of art are so pretentious anyway, one 
swift kick and itll be over . . .
A Clockwork Orange is a great movie on 
the subject of Art vs. Violence. If ya missed it 
two Sundays ago, wait a few weeks. Its a 
campus favorite. Kubrick, the director, uses 
a great device. He does some of the things to 
his audience that the plot does to the charac
ter. Without giving away too much of the 
plot (which isnt the best part of the movie,
its how the storys told), suffice it to say that 
through mental conditioning some scien
tists make the main character, Alex, equate 
violence with extreme nausea. Every time he 
has violent thoughts he doubles over in
pain. They achieve this by simultaneously 
showing very violent movies and injecting 
him with a drug which creates that feeling 
of nausea. (Should the reader wish to dupli
cate this experiment, simply watch a Clint 
Eastwood film festival while eating three
large buckeLs of heavily buttered popcorn). 
Unfortunately, the sound tracks of the films 
contained Beethovens 9th symphony, and 
Alex is subsequently conditioned against 
that, too. But Kubrick has already done it to 
us. Earlier in the film he has Alex cruelly
beat up a couple while crooning Singin in 
the Rain. Its such a bizarre image that it 
sticks. And at the end of the movie, during 
the credits, we hear Gene Kelly singin it 
himself. And were conditioned. We hear the 
song and think of violence. Enjoyable vio
lence. Funny violence. If you want a real 
scare, wait til one of the scenes where Alex is 
beating someone up  and turn the other 
way. Watch the audience.Shaping tomorrow...YOUYour background
you can make a difference.TRW
TRW offers a wide range of 
challenging opportunities in the 
fields listed; projects that range 
from theoretical studies to small, 
medium, and large hardware 
contracts for space, digital 
communications, software 
development, systems engineering 
and microelectronics.
TRW offers full support for your 
continuing education plus a work 
environment that is exceptionally 
attractive to self-motivated people.
TRW will be on-campus 
February 16 February 17
See your placement office for sign 
up information and plan to start 
shaping your tomorrow.
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H 
U.S. Citizenship Required
3 It.
BSily
few
pie
ere
Aeronautical/Aerospace Engineers
Computer Scientists/Computer Engineers
Electrical/Electronic Engineers
Mathematicians
Mechanical Engineers
Physicists (solid state and optics)
Where you canstart
Anti Submarine/Surveillance Systems Engineering
Avionics
Command and Control Systems
Communications Satellites/Ground Stations Systems
Commumcations/Stgnal Processing 'Systems
Data Handling/Processing Software Systems
High Energy Lasers
Manufacturing
Microelectronics
Missile Systems Engineering
Optical Communications Systems
Propulsion Systems
Scientific/Manned Spacecraft
Sensor Systems/Scientific Exper,ments
Telemetry, Tracking and Control Systems
TRW Electronics b Defense

---------------------------------------------------

CMU AB Concerts PresentsAn Evening With the Pat Metheny Group
^aiiicie ITIU9IC licui
(Carnegie Institute)
?  , . ' , \ V :Thursday, February 9, 1984 7:30 p.m.$6.50 with CMU ID, $9.00 otherwise. Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk, Pitt Ticket Office, M-F 9-5 and Heads Together.Tickets go on sale January 20, 1984 9 a.m.For more information call 578-2107.
Funded by Student Activities Fee
j

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tennis legends regain limelight
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Contributing Editor
Legends can be forgotten easily. Its true. 
As time passes, the memory fades, and new 
stars eagerly assume the limelight. But when 
Bjom Borg and Billie Jean King stepped on 
the tennis court at the Civic Arena last Tues
day, there was no doubt that the fans wanted 
to see the legends come to life.
Not even 8000 ardent well-wishers could 
resuscitate the distracted, fadgued players.
Billie Jean King, who, as the emcee intro
duced her, is in her 41st year and has had 
three or four operations on her knees, per
formed as one would expect. Despite strong 
crowd encouragement, she played defen
sively and chopped her returns, practically 
feeding shots to Hungarian Andrea Temesvan 
vari, a 17-year-old lithe blonde with stinging 
serves and whippy groundstrokes. 
Although at first slightly tentative in firing
VITAS GERULAITIS
the balls down the alleys, perhaps out of 
deference to King, Temesvari got progres
sively confident as she realized that the vete
ran would not chase her well-aimed bullets. 
Her long legs enabled her to easily cover the 
entire court; she moved to the net well and 
volleyed without trepidation. The result 
was a 6-2, 6-2 romp.
The youngster is well-deserving of her win
ning the most improved player award. As 
she plays more matches against tougher 
players, however, Temesvari will realize that 
to win in straight sets and relinquish only 
four games, she will have to start out much 
more quickly and play the ball instead of the 
player.
The mens match was another story 
because two legendary heart-throbs were pit
ted against each other and the fans couldnt 
decide who to cheer for. Borg, exhuming
himself from a short retirement for random 
exhibition matches, elicited as many highpitched BJORNs! as 10 years ago. Hes not 
as stoic as before though. He slapped his leg 
a couple of times, grunted not unnoticeably, 
and, yes, he sweats.
But hes still a charmer  after one of 
Gerulaitis angled overheads ended up 
about 20 rows into the crowd and the young 
umpire reluctantly asked the recipient to 
return it, the Swede lobbed a ball into the 
audience before serving to his long-time 
friend from Kings Point, NY. This act of 
good will was, of course, lapped up; unfor
tunately, he seemed to be concentrating 
more on the court surroundings than his 
sharpshooter precision.
As a result, Gerulaitis took the first set, 
6-2, and was one game away from winning 
the match at 5-2 when Borg decided against
total humiliation and evened the match by 
winning the second set in a tie-breaker. The 
hundreds of people who left when Gerulai
tis appeared to have the win on his strings 
had a memory lapse. Gerulaitis, who can 
never seem to crack into the top three rank
ing, was battling the only man to win Wim
bledon five years straight. Borg doesnt give 
up, nor does he choke, as Gerulaitis tends to 
do.
The third set seesawed until four-all when 
Gerulaitis broke Borgs serve and held on to 
win the match. Not to take anything from 
the victory, but Borg was obviously sloppy 
with uncharacteristic unforced errors. He 
also abandoned his reliable baseline game 
for several trips to the net but couldnt seem 
to find a happy medium. His serve was also 
terribly inconsistent.
But at least we still have memories. After 
all, Borg is still Borg.
BILLIE JEAN KING
phot by Pauline Kramrr
ANDREA TEMESVARI

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanJanuary 24, 1984
CMU roundballers below par in weekly action
Mistakes cost women's team
Guard John Taormina goes up for a layup in Saturdays loss to the Allegheny Gators.
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffwriter
With talent and experience but lacking in 
control, the womens basketball team went 
down under pressure from Seton Hill. 
Thursday nights conference game showed 
a hodge podge of poor basketball technique. 
The opponents had no particular advantage 
though they clearly played the better game. 
Coach Kathy Paczkowski said definitively, 
We are the better team. Matched with 
Seton Hill in height and ability, CMU was 
obviously below par as they constantly 
passed away the ball, missed foul shots and 
refused to shoot from the outside.
The team also exhibited a lack of control 
and an unfounded non-confident style. 
Down by six in the first half they fought 
back in the second to tie the game. But, 
according to Paczkowski, they were still 
fighting back like they were losing and 
thus lost control of the game. With whatcan 
only be described as terrible ballhandling, 
the Tartans went on to be defeated 49-39.
Seton Hill played a pressure defense in the 
first half forcing the Tartans to turnover the 
ball 40 times. Paczkowski said she expects 
much more from the guards including a 
better perception of the opponents defense 
and more outside shooting. Defensively, the 
Tartans played aggressively, implementing 
a pressure style in the second half since 
Seton Hill did not appear to be good ball 
handlers.
Individual players did well although they 
were unable to put anything together. Packowski was able to rely on rookie Val Sooky 
to substitute in any of the guard positions 
and feels she can only improve as she gains 
experience. Freshman Christie Munn also 
gave an encouraging performance under the 
basket.
It was an inspired team that took to the 
floor Saturday night. Outmatched in height 
and probably in ability against the Division
II Wheeling College, the Tartans showed 
much more enthusiasm. Though Wheeling 
was able to take advantage of their fast 
breaks, the Tartans were less willing to give 
them the opportunity. The guards seized the 
opportunities for the outside shots while the 
opponents six-foot-plus centers snuffed the 
inside ones. Though they lost 83-49 there 
was an evident improvement over Thursday 
night as the Tartans scored more points 
against a better team.
Forward Michelle Schlegel ruled under 
the basket again to lead the defense with ten 
rebounds and aid the offense with nine 
points. On the outside, point guard Lauri 
Arendas controlled the plays while, playing 
aggressively, forced turnovers on the other 
team.
Injuries have plagued the team since the 
season opened. Starter Donna Nyzio is 
forced to spend the rest of the season on the 
bench with a hurt knee while Ann Carreto is 
still recovering from an operation. Leading 
scorer and key rebounder Elizabeth Howard 
also transferred so Paczkowski is relying 
much more on the rookies to play a major 
role.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
Its getting to be a long season. The Tar
tans took the floor against the Allegheny 
Gators Saturday.Allegheny was the pre
season pick to win the Presidents Athletic 
Conference. The Tartans fell to the Gators 
61-46.
In what is becoming a typical CMU 
effort, the Tartans shot 32 percent from the 
field. The Tartans continue to make the 
plays, but they are not getting good shots. 
CMU has now lost nine straight after their 
season opening victory at the Rochester 
Tip-Off Tournament. Five losses have come 
at home, this after coach Larry Anderson 
had said, Youve got to win your home 
games.
Greg Gabriel led the Tartans with 18 
points on 7-for-16 shooting, six assists and 
three steals. John Taormina had eight 
points, and led the team in rebounding with 
six. Thats great for Taormina, but when a 
guard off the bench leads the team in 
rebounding, the team is going to have prob
lems, although the Tartans did outrebound 
the Gators 38-37. The Tartans had fewer
turnovers, and fewer fouls. The Gators took 
one more shot, 58-57, but made ten more 
28-18. It seems to always come down to field 
goal percentage. Either the Tartans arent 
running their offense, or they just dont 
know to shoot. Taormina was the only 
player over fifty percent, shooting three-forfive from the field. Sophomore forward 
Chris Levels scored 19 points while shoot
ing nine-of-eleven and grabbed seven 
rebounds for the Gators.
George Debski, who scored 44 points in 
the Tartans two previous games, was held to 
just two points and took only four shots. 
Debski scored 16 versus John Carroll in 
Cleveland Wednesday night, but JC won 
the game 79-63. Gabriel led the Tartans with 
20 points and Scott Saxton had seven 
rebounds.
The Tartans go against Washington and 
Jefferson at home Wednesday night at 8 
p.m. and then play PAC leader Hiram on 
Saturday. The Tartans will hope to break 
their nine game losing streak against W 8c J, 
who was 1 -2 in the PAC before their game 
Saturday.
GOLD PRICES ARE DOWN !
Supported by your Activities Fee
yiiMM
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
Tuesday January 24, 9:30 p.m. 
Skibo Room 11
Anyone Interested Should Attend 
Questions Call 687-6893
SAVE NOW ON GOLD RINGS!
SAVE $20. TO $30.
Date: January 25, 26 Time; 10:00 a.m. to 
Place: Baker Hall 4:00 A m
Deposit Required: _____$15.QQ------- U HER fF JONESDivltton of Carnation Company

---------------------------------------------------

introducing... 
the JapaneseFUTON(foo-tahn)
A uniquely versatile mattress 
... by day
Featuring layer upon layer of 100% fancy 
blend cotton batting encased in heavy 
mattress ticking. Available in 6 sizes 
...crib to king...and in four styles: 
standard, extra thick, standard 
with foam core and extra thick 
with foam core. All with 
accompanying custom Futon 
furniture, coordinated covers 
and assorted pillows.
...by night
exclusively atTHE LINEN CLOSET ItatfTcollege
Corner of Walnut Street and Maryland Avenue  412/362-8045 
112 N. Church Street, Boalshurg, PA 16827  814/466-7332
Caber Club
^abeTSlub Caber Club CaEer^lu^aEer^ib
Work Getting You Down?
Why not join the CABER CLUB to relieve the stress 
and strain of your daily schedule? Now open Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday at 7:30 a.m. For information 
or an appointment call extension 8876.
Caber Club
AIM IL ABIE KOUL.DIKKlR FOR YOUR FAWLLy. THEK HOP IN yOUR CAR AKD OU RE OH (JOUR lUAy HOWE
"/,.Da te :Tim;DaaP lcpo sRq 
inctuie^: GmuuA Spo^Mu
DelieMiA Ikeaiimti*
Fmimuuk m&atiUu wwe
86Q WHOLE CHICKEN wwu 2-4 *54S
iiuhidt*' 2,2-3ftt ClucJi*#
RICCTh CWe Slaw
KO CJLEAK UP"
($tl otiwituUdt ft* pkle* ud Engienr
PitAHt i* vide* 57$-21 34 
SimLf <MS*  V**.
fjmUUilt THmdaif t/vut fiidof ~t\
330-700/m
uds
universitydm^ng
service
Caber Club Caber Club Caber Club Caber Club
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is now accepting submissions of poetry, 
fiction, one-act plays, black & white drawings, prints, and photography for its 1964edition.
Writing submissions must by typed and include a cover sheet with author's name 
and address. The should be placed at the Skibo Information Desk, c/o Editor, 
Oakland Review. If submitting from off-campus, include a self-addressed stamped 
envelope to insure return.
Art submissions may be placed in Room 302, College of Fine Arts, or at the Stab 
Information Desk. Special accomodations, questions, call Kristin Kovacic, x4466.
Deadline for all submissions is February 1, 1984
Copies of the 1963 edition are now on sale at the Bookstore.
Funded by Student Senate.

---------------------------------------------------

 SPECIALHOTDOG.. nthi suemi^POSTER GIVEAWAY!
Page 18The TartanJanuary 24, 1984
Raiders roll
After Mark Moseley hit a 24 yard field 
goal, it looked like the game would be 14-3 
at the half. But with ten seconds left,while 
on their own 12 yard line, Joe Theismann 
rolled right and threw a screen left intended 
for Joe Washington. At that moment, 
reserve linebacker Jack Squirek stepped in, 
intercepted Theismanns pass, and saun
tered into the end zone for a 21-3 lead.
The second half was all Allen. Allen ran 
five yards for a TD after a Darrell Green 
interference penalty. The Raiders then held 
the Skins, and on the first play from scrim
mage, Allen broke left, was seemingly 
stopped, then rotated around the right side, 
broke through the line, and outran Anthony 
Washington for a record-breaking 74 yard 
run. Allen tripled the output of John Rig
gins, who gained just 64 yards on 26 carries.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Sports Editor
If ever it can be said that there is such a 
thing as a big play team, the Los Angleles 
Raiders are that team. Led by Most Valuable 
Player Marcus Allen, who ran for a Super 
Bowl record 191 yards on 20 carries, the 
Raiders blew out defending champion 
Washington, 38-9.
The Raiders scored their five touchdowns 
on big plays. Early in the first quarter, Der
rick Jensen, a third-string fullback, blocked 
a Jeff Hayes punt and recovered it in the end 
zone for a 7-0 Raider lead.
In the second quarter, quarterback Jim 
Plunkett threw 50 yards to Cliff Branch, 
setdng up a 12 yard scoring toss from Plun
kett to Branch.
Tartan swim team dominates in 
impressive win over Hiram
aided by divers Mark Flanagan and Bill 
Hall who took first and second in their 
event. Both the medley relay of Biesecker, 
Elliot, Hall, and Leech, and the free relay of 
Summers, Leech, Nelson, and Francis, dev
astated their opponents. The Illig sisters, 
Gina and Buzz, overcame their male oppo
nents by taking third places in the 200 breast 
and 400 free, respectively. Buzz added some 
excitement by coming from behind to just 
out-touch her Hiram competition. The Tar
tan team heads to Kenyon on Friday and 
Saturday for an invitational and will com
pete against top Division III teams.
The Tartan swim team started their con
ference schedule with an impressive win 
over Hiram College, 74-38. Their dominant 
performance can be attributed to the strenu
ous workouts in Florida over the Christmas 
break.
The top swimmer for CMU was Bruce 
Nelson, who displayed a heroic effort in the 
200 butterfly. Following his example were 
Rob Summers (800 free), Mike Fitzgerald 
(200 and 400 free), Steve Francis (50 and 100 
free), and John Elliot (200 breast) who all 
received first places. The team was alsophoto by John Rogers
Penn State University head coach Joe Patemo will be one of the featured speakers at the 
Champion Coach of the Year Clinic.Klausing to speakCustom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Arizona State, Grant Teaff of Baylor, Don 
Nehlen of West Virginia and Foge Fazio of 
Pitt.
Klausing will be speaking on Saturday 
the 28th along with Rogers, Fazio, and Jerry 
Claiborne of Kentucky.
The clinic, administered by Duffy Daugh
erty and Bud Wilkinson, is designed to give 
area football coaches expert advice and tips 
on all aspects of the game. Also featured will 
be exhibits by athletic equipment and supp
lies manufacturers.
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
CMU head football coach Chuck 
Klausing will be one of many speakers at 
the 1984 Champion Coach of the Year 
Clinic at the Marriott Greentree Hotel in 
Pittsburgh on January 27-28-29.
Klausing, who has been attending the 
clinic for some 15 to 20 years, calls the 
clinic one of the best in the country, not
ing the list of other speakers which includes 
Joe Patemo of Penn State, Darryl Rogers of
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll lea\^ 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES
| (ANY LENGTH) $25.00
The First 50 People 
who arrive 
at our location 
listed below 
with a copy of this ad 
will receive a FREE 
HOT DOG.. .TheMovie" poster.
SatNO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAJR SALON
Original Hot Dog Shops, Inc. 
3901 Forbes Ave (Oakland) 
Pgh. Pa 15213

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1984The TartanPage 19
Allegheny 
Case Reserve 
John Carroll 
Wash. & Jtfflirarn 
Bethany
Carnegie-Mellon
ThielPAC
Case Reserve 
-iiram 
Allegheny 
John Canoll 
Wash. & Jeff.
Allegheny 
999 John Carroll 
rtf Case Reserve 
W Wash. & Jeff. 
PCT. Bethany
Hiram
MCbREPIZZA!
more often....
Free medium coke with a purchase of any sandwich.
Come and get it at these Magic Times:
Sunday 6 ~ 8pm 
Mon.*Thurs. 9-llpm
[VteRE PIZZA!
offer void on deliveries
i university 
I l^iC dining 
Wl\^v service
PAC Statistics
1 1.500 Hiram
I I.500 PAC
* *.500 Allegheny
1 I.500 Case Reserve
o : 2.000 Hiram -
 2.000 John Carroll
AVG.
55.9
62.2
64.5
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICSOVERALL SCORING (min. 12 pfc^gm)
H. Cunningham (JC) 
D. Black (B)
R. Swartz (H)
V. Harp(T)
T. Johnsson (CWRU) 
T. Connolly (W&J)
D. Hollis (CWRU)
M. Carswell (JC)
G. Gabriel (CMU)
PAC
H. Cunningham (JC) 
G. Debski (CMU)
M. Koch is (JQ 
V. Harp (T)
J. Conn (W&J)
T. Johnsson (CWRU) 
M. Carswell (JC)
D. Hollis (CWRU)
215577.5Wash. & Jeff.9854
214070.0Case Reserve13160
2136 ; -68.0John Carroll12155
2121 .60.5Allegheny11450
211959.5Thiel12144
211959.5Bethany11039
2116. ...j58.0CMU. 122m
REBOUNDS  (
Vic Harp <T)
Tom Liptack (CWRU) 
Tom Callihan (T)
Dave Hollis (CWRU) 
Mike Carswell (JC) 
Richard Neff (CMU) 
Tony Jones (JQ 
Mark Shivers (H)
PAC
George Debski (CMU) 
Daw Hollis (CWRU) 
Alan Bradstock (W&J) 
Tom Callihan (T)
Tom Liptack (CWRU) 
Mike KochisQC)
Vic Harp (T)
FGFTPTS.AVG.
842018818.8
582914518.1
6743177' 17.7
713117317.3
662415615.6
505415415.4
572614014.0
5516_ 12612.6
491010812.0
FGFTPTS.AVG.
161244* 22.0
111638 *19.0
157SI18.5
14836.18.0
1473517.5
14634 17.0
1263015.0
1072713.5
VERALL (min. 6/gm)
GKfcBSAVG.
10949.4
10878.7
10797.9
10767.6
10737.3
9^626.9
9586.4
10606.0
GREBSAVG.
22211.0
2178.5
2178.5
2168.0
215lb
215lb
2147.0
SPRING 1984 SEASON
NO EXPERIENCE 
REQUIRED
MENS TEAM
THURSDAY 1/26/84 
SKIBO ROOM 45 
7;30 INDN
WOMENS TEAM
photbyEr icTacgn 
bSHAR tRRC nO 
gFHO LIVI
ByMEDE RO WAyEDMA Acnvmc* BDD
f?

---------------------------------------------------

VACANCY
Student Government Treasurer
Don't let the little guys fool you!
Youve tried the rest. . . Now try the BEST!
Petitions at 
Skibo Information 
Desk 
Due 5:00 p.m. 
Thursday 
February 2
CAPRIPIZZA
For FRIENDLY 
service and 
DELICIOUS foodNwspa ro CUT
We use TRUE 
MOZARELLA cheese 
 DO OTHERS?
PZZA ONly
$>.50
Mon. - Sat. 5-2 a.m. 
Sundays 3-2 a.m.Plus 2 FREE liters of Pepsi 
FREE delivery 7 days a week
3415 Forbes Ave., Oakland tele: 681 -2202, 2203
This price for lunch/dinner Eat in or order out.
All activities fee paying students are eligible

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1984The TartanPage 21
Historian concerned with "gift-giving and sex
By SUSAN PETRIE
Tartan Managing Editor
Natalie Zemon Davis, Henry Charles Lea 
Professor of History at Princeton Univer
sity, lectured at CMU last week as part of the 
Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series. 
Her talks concerned gift-giving and sex in 
early modem European society.
Primarily specializing in social history, 
Davis has written several pieces on early 
French history and recently served as histori
cal consultant for the film, The Return of 
Martin Guerre.
Davis was researching the case of Martin 
Guerre in France when she learned that oth
ers were working on a film project of the 
same case. Combining their efforts, the 
screenwriters and the historian were able to 
omplete a workable, appealing film  and 
the experience proved both exciting and intrijguing for Davis. On the set location for three 
/eeks she became involved in the creative 
spects of film-making and screenplaywriting, and also worked with props (costumes) and the actors. I learned a great
deal, said Davis about the project.
It was a new experience for Natalie Davis 
to construct historical images in a visual 
sense and to work with a creauve medium to 
convey facts. A few problems surfaced from 
the difficulties of combining history and 
creauve writing, and to make up the differ
ences between composing a film and stating 
history, Davis wrote a book entitled The
Return of Martin Guerre, which encom
passed more detail. I was wearing two hats, 
and I tried to do it as best I could.
Davis would like to work on more films 
in the future in addition to writing a couple 
more books on the history of early modem 
France, specifically, the gift-giving process 
in the 16th century and changing sex roles 
in the 16th and 17th century. She became
interested in French history in high school 
after becoming fascinated with the French 
Revolution.
Commenting on the applied history pro
gram at CMU, Davis thinks its terrific. 
Davis believes that social history and other 
contemporary trends in history are interest
ing and important, and she herself is 
involved in studying anthropology and his
tory to explain social trends.
Get perky! Learn to laugh and relax more
continued from page 7
the problem, a solution is close behind.
 Talk to a good friend and put her/his 
listening skills to the test.
 Treat yourself! Go see a movie or play, 
or get involved with a new club. Eat some
thing deliciously fattening or make a long
distance call to an old friend. Enjoy yourself 
because youre worth it!
 Exercise! Take a long walk, work out 
in the gym, jog, or just get busy. Not only 
will you get rid of some bottled up tension,
but you will also relax and sleep better.
 Leam to relax! There are many effec
tive ways to relax such as strenuous exercise, 
deep muscle relaxation, yoga, and transcen
dental meditation. Dr. Lorrie Rabin of 
the CMU Counseling Center suggests reading 
Dr. Herbert Bensons book, The Relax
ation Response.
 Laugh! Listen to a funny story or a 
joke, read a humorous book, or even get 
tickled. Once you start, you wont want to
stop.
 Attend a Winter Workshop at the 
Counseling Center. This semesters offer
ings are Test Anxiety Workshop, Eating 
Behaviors, Intimate Relationship, and 
Effective Study Skills.
If you are still unhappy and your hopeless 
feelings are intense and long-lasting, help at 
the Counseling Center should be considered 
(Mo re wood Gardens D Tower, x2922). And 
hopefully the cold will be less bitter for you 
this winter. Smileits January!
Take Charge At 22.
In most jobs, at 22 
youre near the bottom 
of the ladder.
In the Navy, at 
22 you can be a leader.
After just 16 weeks 
of leadership training, 
youre an officer. Youll 
have the kind of job 
your education and training prepared 
you for, and the decision-making au
thority you need to make the most of it.
As a college graduate and officer 
candidate, your Navy training is geared 
to making you a leader. There is no boot 
camp. Instead, you receive professional 
training to help you build the technical 
and management skills youll need as a 
Navy officer.
This training is 
designed to instill 
confidence by first
hand experience. You 
learn by doing. On 
your first sea tour, 
youre responsible for 
managing the work of 
up to 30 men and the
I NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? I'm ready to take charge. Tfell me more about 
the Navys officer programs. (0G)
Name____________
Address.
City____
Age-------
State.
+College/University_
Year in College.
AMajor/Minor__
Phone Numbercare of sophisticated 
equipment worth 
millions of dollars.
Its a bigger chal
lenge and a lot more 
responsibility than 
most corporations give 
you at 22. The rewards 
are bigger, too. Theres 
a comprehensive package of benefits, 
including special duty pay. The starting 
salary is $17,000more than most com
panies would pay you right out of college. 
After four years, with regular promo
tions and pay increases, your salary will 
have increased to as much as $31,000.
As a Navy officer, you grow, through 
new challenges, new tests of your skills, 
and new opportunities 
to advance your edu
cation, including the 
possibility of attending 
graduate school while 
youre in the Navy.
Dont just take a 
job. Become a Navy 
officer, and take charge. 
Even at 22.
W 341
(Please Print) Last
___________Apt. #______
_Zip_
.?GPA_
(Area Code) Best Time to Call
This is for general recruitment information. You do not have to fur
nish any of the information requested Of course, the more we know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi
tions for which you qualify.
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Think twice before you criticize CFA
One of the biggest stories on campus lately 
did not emanate from the usual sources. Com
puters were irrelevant to the story, and neither
Brad Walter nor Richard Cyert had his name 
mentioned. This time CFA and the project 
students appropriately entided IT are in the 
news.
The news lies not simply in the fact that IT 
happened but also in how the project was 
received. There were some who quesdoned 
whether what CFA did was really art. How
ever, those same critics would probably be 
appalled to have heard people raise the same 
quesdons about rock n roll music 30 or 35 
years ago.
Other people felt that their territory was 
being invaded. One student was heard to say 
that in retaliation he would like to write differendal equations on the walls of CFA. Before 
(hat theme is carried too far, consider how
Hart is Shapiro's choice
many places on this campus a student can go 
without seeing a computer terminal.
Perhaps the most drastic reception IT faced 
was outright destruction. Students everywhere 
felt inclined to destroy creations that took their 
authors hours of work to create. Consider how
you might feel if, after hours of research and 
writing, someone arbitrarily burned your term 
paper. The artists may not hit upon perfection, 
but neither will the writer of a term paper. The 
issue is not whether the writing is good but
that it took you a long time to write. And if you 
decided to do a public reading, nobody would 
dare question your freedom of speech.
So, maybe the issue becomes not a question 
of quality or place but of who was doing it. For 
a long time CFA has been considered by many 
as the other college. the administration has 
certainly expressed its own views with a dispro
portionately small budget alloted CFA.
Some of the bias toward CFA may be due to 
the clique feeling the college projects. When 
artists have a party, they have it with musicians 
and actors. However with IT CFA students 
have made an attempt to go beyond their own 
walls! And they are met with disdain.
One of the strengths that makes an education at CMU more valuable than an Ivy 
League school is its diversity. In one university 
we have quality engineering, fine arts, science
and humanities programs. If you will excuse 
the generality, that brings four radically differ, 
ent types of people into close proximity. This
need not be a confrontational situation. When 
we all eventually graduate from this place, we 
will have hopefully learned how to communi
cate effectively with just about anybody. Think
about that the next time you consider hating 
someone who happens to be a little different 
from you.
Debate showed candidates with dear ideas
By Stuart Shapiro
More than a week after the festivities at 
Dartmouth, Im still trying to figure out 
who won the debate between the eight 
contenders for the Democratic presidential 
nomination. Not only cant you 
tell the players without a scorecard, you cant even tell the 
score.
Depending on which newspaper you read 
(USA Today doesnt count), you can con
clude that either Mondale won, Mondale 
lost, Glenn won, Glenn lost, Hart gained 
ground, Jackson gained legitimacy , Cran
ston gained some hair coloring, Reagan 
lucked out, all of the above, or none of the 
above. How illuminating.
It seems to me that if we have so much
trouble crowning an official winner, per
haps its not worth worrying about in the 
first place. Instead of obsessing ourselves 
with the question of which lucky devil won 
the grand prize, maybe we should approach 
it as a simple exercise in discovery.
As far as Im concerned, the revised offi
cial pecking order is of litde consequence. 
What is of consequence is the extent to 
which the debate sharpened or blurred per
ceptions of the candidates. Everyone knows 
or should know already what each candi
date supposedly stands for. That is to be 
distinguished from what each candidate 
actually stands for. Unfortunately, in a cou
ple of eases Im not convinced the candidates 
themselves know what it is they stand for. 
Come to think of it, Im not even sure that
standing for something means anything 
anyway. After all, in 1980 Reagan stood for a 
balanced budget. Now hes standing in red 
ink up to his eyebrows. Still, barring the 
clairvoyant, we appear stuck with standings 
for. But one can at least look for internal 
consistency, which is more than we ever got 
from candidate Reagan.
So, it is now apparent that Cranston 
really is a single issue candidate. Everything 
the man says turns into a lecture on arms 
control. But at least hes consistent about it. 
Mondale, on the other hand, was marve
lously inconsistent. His budget scenario 
seems to involve almost as many mirrors 
and as much blue smoke as Reagans did in 
1980. Jackson has apparently at least 
thought about something besides new slo
Don't register^ if you haven't already
Draft laws are unconstitutional
By Dan Tobias
Several years ago, at President Carters 
urging, draft registration was resumed. Rea
gan campaigned on a promise of eliminat
ing registration, but once he was elected he 
broke this promise. Eighteenyear-old males are presently 
required to register. The govern
ment has been aiming a major 
propaganda campaign at high school and 
college students urging them to register, and 
threatening jail sentences, fines, and loss of 
eligibility for college financial aid for those 
who dont
The problem with all this is that the draft 
is immoral. There is no place in a free coun
try few any scheme that would force people 
of any age or sex to interrupt their career, 
education, or private lives to enter the armed 
forces against their will. The Thirteenth 
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution states: 
Neither slavery nor involuntary servitude, 
except as punishment for crime whereof the 
party shall have been duly convicted, shall 
exist within the United States, or any place 
subject to their jurisdiction. Period. It does 
not say except where the national security 
requires otherwise, or anything like that.
Since the draft involves forcing young 
men to serve in the military whether they 
want to or not, it is clearly involuntary servi
tude, and therefore unconstitutional. Since 
the only exception to the prohibition of
gans, but still has a long way to go before he 
comes up with a coherent set of polities. 
Hollings was witty, as usual, but declined to 
specify just what the hell hed do with the 
budget after he unfreezes it. McGovern w& 
consistently irrelevant, except as a referee for 
Glenn and Mondale. Askew was great as a 
critic of Mondales budget plans but neve 
moved much beyond that. As for Glenn, il 
he doesnt capture the nomination, he|d 
should definitely play the part of Reagan i 
any practice debates. Objectivity prevents^ 
me from noting that I still like Gary Hart f<
As a basis for choosing a candidate, the 
Dartmouth Political Tap Dancing Festival 
still left a lot to be desired. But thats okay 
since there is also a long way to go before the 
prize is awarded. As it was, the debate gave a 
clearer idea of just who among the partici 
pants has any clear ideas and who doesnt 
Thats all that really matters.
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student 
Applied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
involuntary servitude is for those convicted 
of a crime, you can say that those who are 
drafted are convicted, without a trial, of the 
crime of being male and between 18 and 
25 years old. However, the Supreme Court 
stated in 1918 that . . . we are unable to 
conceive upon what theory the exaction by 
government from the citizen of the perfor
mance of his supreme and noble duty of 
contributing to the defense of the rights and 
honor of the nation ... can be said to be the 
imposition of involuntary servitude. This 
shows that the Constitution might as well 
be waste paper; the Supreme Court which 
has a popular image as being the preserver 
erf liberty against the power of government, 
has shown a tendency to toss peoples rights 
out the window when they conflict with 
what they consider the national interest
Clearly, we cant rely on any branch of 
government to scrap draft registration, des
pite its blatant unconstitutionality. So the 
only thing for us to do is to refuse to register. 
Like an idiot, I registered when I turned 18. 
At that time I was still under the delusion 
that the government existed for the benefit
of the people, and that laws should be 
obeyed. I am now ashamed of my cowardice 
in registering and wouldnt do it if I was 
now turning 18. So, if you are about to turn 
18, dont register. If millions of Americans 
refuse to cooperate in this system, it will
collapse. There is no way they can prosecute 
everybody. By the way, in a blatant violation 
of the First Amendment, it is also illegal to 
counsel people not to register for the draft 
They can now send me to jail, as I am a 
hard-core criminal for writing this.
You may ask why I am making such a 
fms, as the draft doesnt even exist now. The 
principle is still the same. As long as there is 
registration, this shows that the government 
sees nothing immoral about starting an 
actual draft. In fact, there have been several 
proposals running around Congress which 
would in fact bring back the draft.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in Applied 
Math and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the op/ed 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
TheTarfc>n.
Editor in Chief................................Ric Medro#
Managing Editor............................Susan Pet#
Business Manager............................Karen Tyl^
News Editor..........................Neil J. Greenblufl1
Features Editor................................Neal Johns
Entertainment Editor........................Mark Lev*
Sports Editor.................... Christopher D. Le**
Photography Editor ........................Mike Pile"^
Production Manager......................Mana Ri^
Typesetting Manager......................Patti Carl#
Art Director.................................Michael Sussr^
Contributing Editors...............Vincent Guin
Gregg Bo#L 
Monica Cdty1 
Pauline We 
Pauline KraJi*1
AmL Ent Editor............................Adam ^
Asst Sports Editor............................ScoitW
Asst Business Manager..................Bonnie Tof
Production Staff: Robert Aarhus, Peter 
Andrew Ghali, Tracey Pejouhy, Maria R* 
Steve Volan.
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial ^ 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editonal t* 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skif*> 
(412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113- 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA I3, 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

January 24, 1984The TartanPage 23
tiers:
-mas spirit is warm
tonwould like to comment on the letter to 
editor, written by Gail Feldman, in last 
ks issue of The Tartan, addressing the 
ject of Christmas cheer on campus, 
ail first objected to the Merry Christmas 
d appearing in the December 6, 1983 
e of The Tartan, and then expressed her 
s on the inappropriateness of the extent 
ristmas festivities here at CMU. 
ail is entitled to her opinion on this 
ject. However, I resent the fact that she 
it upon herself to speak for the Jewish 
ents on campus.
s a Jewish student on campus, I happen 
ove the Christmas spirit, which pops 
here at CMU and everywhere each holi
day season. Christmas cheer is a very spe
cial phenomenon  people smile all the 
time and become more warm and friendly 
than at any other time of the year. I only 
wish that people could be like that more 
often.
By the way, just for the record I saw a 
Happy Chanukah sign in Skibo, plus a 
Menorah in Morewood Gardens, which was 
lit every night of our holiday.
Believe me, Lam not putting down Gails, 
or anyone elses, opinion. I would appre
ciate, though, that in the future everyone 
speaks for himself only  not for others.
Randi Bo grad 
Senior
ublic areas belong to all
on
it art? You miss the point of conflict, 
conflict in this case is not whether it is 
(thats old and not the source of this 
blem), the question is do you have the 
t to put it there?
a community, such as a college cam, there is value placed on space; it is a 
ted commodity. Thus, as space is 
ed, for practical purposes each space is 
ed managed by someone or a set of peoIn this manner the space can be divided 
that each person can have space of his 
with which he can do what he wishes, 
f one person uses someone elses space 
out permission, he is then trespassing; 
cool; For practical purposes there have 
evloped a number of types of space: per\ family, general, etc. Using these divns the definition of trespassing is 
ed.
In this list certain general areas are spec
ified for particular uses; for example, a com
puter room, or. . . an art gallery. The 
question arises: who decides the use of an 
area? The use of the area is defined by the 
owner, in this case the university.
At this university certain areas have been 
designated (given: they arent divided very 
evenly, but thats another issue) for specific 
use. 5200 Wean is computer science. 
Designers, architects, artists, etc., also have 
their spaces. Certain areas have also been 
designated neutral: hallways, landscape, 
and the student union.
By designation these neutral areas are not 
for private use. However, this is not the final 
word. Such decisions on space allocation 
can be appealed. If you wish to use some
ones personal space, obtain permission. 
Then you may do so and not be accused of 
trespassing. And so it is in general.
Okay, Ill agree that it is trying to say something, but I still dont think embed your foot 
in me, kick my mud around, spit on me and trash my very being is exactly what it s 
trying to say.
Neutral spaces are in essence owned by 
the enure school populace, so ask them. Ask 
them all, or ask a representative thereof (i.e.: 
Senate or SDC), or go to the original owner 
(the administration) and ask. Do not, as a 
subsection of the owner group, assume the 
right to occupy an area without the consent 
of all. It is not right for you students, OR 
YOUR DEPARTMENT, to assume use of 
general areas without permission. Note: If 
you obtain permission through a represen
tative of the peoples space, then it is only 
fair to inform them of your permission and 
thus avoid misunderstanding.
This note is an attempt to help you under
stand the reaction of many of the universi
tys students to the recent usurping of the 
Wean corridor and the Student Union. 
When you place items in space where you 
have not the right to, you are rightly open to 
criticism (from offended people whose space 
you have usurped).
Personally, I enjoyed the displays and am 
sorry for the resulting damage. I hope you 
will not be deterred, and that in the future 
you will obtain a positive consensus from 
your partners in space ownership before 
undertaking in future public displays.
Cristan Mooney 
MathCS 85
tudents are too old to pull juvenile pranks
By Wendy Scott
en I was fourteen the in thing to do 
destroy mailboxes. I lived in a rural area 
ere most people had those tin mailboxes 
led on three-foot posts at the head of 
their driveways. So, on weeknights the few truly cool ado^ lescents would sneak onto 
someones property and ruin his 
ilbox. The standard procedure for desction was simple: pull the post out, separit from the mailbox, and then use it to 
it the mailbox into a lump of dented 
tal.
5retty stupid pasttime, eh? Perhaps four1 y^r-olds may be forgiven an occasional
bit of vandalism, but what about college 
students? This week a sculpture was erected 
in the hallway between Doherty and Science 
Halls on Thursday afternoon. The artist(s?) 
also placed signs and commentaries along
side the pieces, encouraging interaction by 
others with the work as well.
It was a risky presentation. The artists 
were asking for feedback, asking the 
observer to get involved with the piece. Per
sonally, I thought it was really refreshing to 
see bright colors and new shapes around the 
building. Apparently, not everyone agreed. 
By Thursday night the central sculpture in 
the series had been destroyed, and the space 
for comments had been scrawled with state
ments concerning the sexual preferences 
and activities of artists. Admittedly, I have 
only a meager understanding of art and 
sculpture, but the correlation between an 
artists sex life and his creative output has 
never been clear to me. The kind of com
ments I saw would not be helpful to anyone. 
And such slanderous statements were not 
limited to the students; Friday morning I 
heard at least two CMU professors mocking 
and scoffing the piece as they walked 
through the hallway.
Now Im not saying we should appre
ciate every bit of art we see, merely that we 
should respect it. It is someone elses prop
erty after all. None of us is fourteen anytonnie acts out comical scenario
By Felicia Pratto
ast semester, someone on campus 
^wed Failsafe. By March Dr. Strangelove, 
2r Games, and The Bedford Incident will 
ve been shown. I suppose Will the glo^ bal thermonuclear war start by 
accident, or by a first-strike? is 
8 an OK theme for a movie, but 
theyll never make a really big 
until tjiey make it funny.
1 ve got a senpt that not only is an escapist 
MecK but suitable for the kiddies as well, 
uu one: fun-loving, irresponsible teenCrs] Pnnce Ronnie and John Q. Public 
p dying Ron's new video game. John 
U( ck*rkens, then he becomes hysteriwhen he cries out that the missile attack 
lnimg system is on Red alert. He tries 
sfxlately to correct his strategy  could it
really have caused such a disaster?
Suddenly, and quite by accident  a flash 
of insight. Rons fancy missile attack system 
has been tracking the moon! Ron laughs, 
relieved, but John Q. is not amused.
For insights into Ronnies social skills, 
we flash back to his childhood. He is teasing 
a young friend about the expensive, elabo
rate war toy his family sacrificed so much to 
buy him. It has guns, computers, planes, even 
nations. Poor Yuri is embarassed he has 
nothing so expensive to play with  just a 
homemade slingshot. He wants Ronnie to 
share the toys or put them away and play. 
But Ronnie calls him names and taunts him 
into playing. Then Yuri accidentally hits 
one of Ronnies expensive airplanes with a 
rock. Ronnie gets mad, and Yuri is so sorry 
and confused, he cant say anything. Ronnie
and Yuri are friends no longer.
Years later, Ronnie is vacationing in Bei
rut. Ricks Arabian Cafe is very crowded 
tonight. Suddenly, a familiar face appears in 
the crowd. Yuri invites him to sit at his table. 
To avoid talking, they begin to play poker. 
Eons go by. Nothing happens. Whos face 
will crack? Suddenly, Ronnie pulls out a 
gun. Yuri instinctively pulls his.
Yuri speaks slowly. Ron, you're not 
really going to fire that thing, are you?
Ron smiles. Good cow boys always shoot 
first. Then, . . .
But wait. This isnt a comedy  its a 
documentary. Nobody wants to see those.
Felicia Pratto has her B.S. degree in psy
chology and is taking additional courses as a 
special student at CMU. Pratto will be writ
ing a weekly column for The Tartan.
more. Remember the three large black 
cardboard triangles that appeared on the cut 
last semester? They were destroyed also. 
Such vandalism is wrong; inexcusable, not 
to mention cruel. Those pieces are on public 
display, but they dont belong to the viewers. 
Any piece of art takes a lot of work. For those 
who dont understand that, just imagine 
writing a beautiful, clean program  work
ing out all the bugs and everything, and 
then some steals your password and mali
ciously crashes the whole program. Its easy 
to say that such drawing and sculpting 
could be accomplished with ease by a twoyear-old, but it takes a lot of study and prac
tice for a college student to be able to draw 
like a two-year-old. Besides, there still 
remains a big difference between modem art 
and a toddlers scribblings. The artist can 
draw7 and sculpt in many ways and has deli 
erately and thoughtfully chosen to use this 
style. Just because some people disagree 
with that choice does not justify vandalism.
I dont like lots of things, but I dont crush or 
deface them just because I dont like them. I 
am so sick of seeing reproductions of the 
Mona Lisa that I doubt I would enjoy the 
original, but that doesnt mean Id scribble 
on her if I saw her.
It seems to me very sad that an art student 
here at CMU cannot feel comfortable dis
playing his work to other students. Art is 
meant to be viewed and responded to, and I 
hope that we can learn a little more respect. 
Im, not talking about art appreciation or 
being cultured. Im talking about respect 
for anothers property and common 
courtesy.
Wendy Scott is a senior in psychology.

---------------------------------------------------

Fmes.
duncat
LAST CHM( SUfcEND* O*L -DIE. >
DA.MN FLIES 
THEY NEVER.
, SURRENDER..
' AH, NO, NOT AT AU, \ 
CAPTAN. SORRY TO 
INTERRUPT YOOK F^S/f, BuT 
X T05T RECEIVED A WES5AC-EFROM reali nr CONTROL ! 
SOMEONE 5 TAMPERJN& WITH 
REAUTT *AfAi, AWWT'SiW 
v TO U5 TO PT  STfJP C 
T<5 IT Hi y/
sunt
CAPTAIN KRON KITE AND REXby John Malley
OSPyHEY, NOT A 6M>
5HOOTER FOR A 
COLT 17 LASER.
PISTOL . IT, REX
PUBLICITY
The Thistle is taking club group shots for the 1984 Yearbook 
January 30th - February 3rd, 6-8 p.m. in Skibo or On Location.
If your club has not yet been contacted, picture by calling the Thistle Office @ x2121, or Brian Dodson @ x4152.
Please have ready at time of photo:
 A short paragraph describing activities
 A typed list of members and officers
 A candid shot
Clubs include non-varsity sports, honor societies, or any social or service organization
Funded by Student Activities Yearbook
JOE FRESHMANby Mark Levine
JAUNTINES DAY 
IS IN. THREE MEEKS.J'Vf RESOLVED Ncn-roCARE! 
f'LL WAIT HOWEVER t-ON& IT
difer,T HE YNr,VTE

---------------------------------------------------

I
A New NameWhat was Bell Labs, Bell Laboratories or, sometimes simply The Labs, is now officially AT&T Bell Laboratories.It joins AT&T Technologies, Inc and AT&T Communications in an impressive corporate family...the new AT&T.
AT&TBell Laboratories
Will the ingenuity still be there? Will there still be the creativity, the innovation and the unique development 
capability that has made AT&T Bell Laboratories one of the nations foremost technological resources? Yes. 
So whats new?
A New BeginningIt is a year of new beginnings. For AT&T and for you If you are a graduate with a BS, MS or PhD in Electrical or Mechanical Engineering, Computer Science, Mathematics, Operations Research, Chemistry, Physics, or Human Factors Psychology talk to an AT&T Bell Laboratories recruiter.
A New FreedomThe new AT&T is free to compete in a variety of markets. AT&T Bell Laboratories discoveries and designs can now be extended to whatever applications and consequent 
markets they suggest.
A New MissionAT&T Bell Laboratories will provide the technology AT&T 
needs to be a world leader in information systems, services and products. We will pursue a broad spectrum of research in micro-electronics, photonics, digital systems 
and software to fuel new ventures.
With the divestiture of the 22 Bell Operating companies and the restructuring of the AT&T organization, questions arise concerning how the change will affect AT&T Bell 
Laboratories.
We will be on campus...January 30-31 Check with the Placement Office for details.
If you would prefer to write, send a copy 
of your resume and academic transcripts to:Director of Technical Employment, Dept. 127/3104/84, 
AT&T Bell Laboratories, 150 John F. Kennedy Parkway, Short Hills, New Jersey 07078
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

frents.
Films
Through Jan. 22 I Want to Live in the Coun
try by Joan Jonas (1977). Carnegie Museum of 
Art, Video Exhibition Room, 4400 Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. Continuous showing, Tue.-Sat. 10 
a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212.
Through Feb. 2 The Reflecting Pool, collected 
work of Bill Viola (1977-80). Carnegie Museum 
of Art, Video Exhibition Room, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Continuous showing, Tue.-Sat. 
10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212.
Jan. 24 Stripes, with Bill Murray. Baker Hall 
2210. 6, 8 & 10 p.m. 8c midnight.
Jan. 24 Night of the Living Dead, by George 
Romero (1968). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft 
Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m.
Jan. 25 Dr. Strangelove, with Peter Sellers. 
Doherty Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m.
Jan. 25 The Shop on Main Street. (Czech. 
1965). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oak
land. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m.
Jan. 26 Seven Samuri, (Japan 1954). Baker 
Hall 2210. 6 8c 10 p.m.
Jan. 26 The Knight, by Lech Majewski (1980). 
David Lawrence Hall, Univ. of Pgh., 3942 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. 8 p.m.
Jan. 26 Mildred Pierce, with Joan Crawiord 
(1945). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., 
Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:40 p.m.
Jan. 27 Flashdance, with Jennifer Beals (1982). 
Baker Hall 2210. 6, 8 8c 10 p.m. 8c midnight. 
Jan. 27  Testament of Orpheus, by Jean Coc
teau (France 1960). English subtides. Museum of 
Art Theater, Carnegie Institute, Forbes Ave., 
Oakland. 8 p.m.
Jan. 27  Life of Brian, with John Cleese. (UK 
1979). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oak
land. 7:30, 9:30 8c 11:30 p.m.
Jan. 27 A Steel City Trilogy: An Evening of 
Documentaries and Discussion, including 
The Business erf America, Voices from a Steeltown, 8c Valley Town 1983. Public Health 
Auditorium, Univ. of Pgh., Fifth Ave., Oakland. 
8 p.m.
Jan. 27 Sc 28 Super 8/Berlin, by Keith Sanborn.
Pittsburgh Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave., Oak
land. 8 p.m. 681-5449.
Jan. 28 Zelig, with Woody Allen (1983). Pitts
burgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30, 
9:30 8c 11:30 p.m.
Jan. 28 400 Blows, by Francois Truffaut 
(France 1959). English subtides. Museum of Art 
Theater, Carnegie Institute, Forbes Ave., Oak
land. 8 p.m.
Jan. 28 Twilight Zone, with Vic Morrow 
(1983).Baker Hall 2210. 6, 8:30 8c 11 p.m.
Jan. 29 Oklahoma! with Gordon McCrae 8c 
Shirley Jones (1955). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 
Craft Ave., Oakland. 7:30 8c 10 p.m.
Jan. 29 The Eiger Sanction. Baker Hall 2210.6, 
8 8c 10 p.m. 8c midnight.
Jan. 29 The Real World of the Philippines, by 
Rick Howard. Carnegie Music Hall, Carnegie 
Institute. 2:30 p.m. 622-3314.
Jan. 30 Enter the Dragon, with Bruce Lee 
(1973). Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., 
Oakland. 7:30 8c 9:30 p.m.
Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. matinee 2:30 p.m. 621-4445. 
Through Feb. 19 Da by Hugh Leonard. Pitts
burgh Laboratory Theatre, 420 N. Craig St, Oak
land. Thu.-Sun 8:15 p.m.; Sun. 2:30 p.m. 
621-2876.
Jan. 24 Puddnhead Wilson, adapted from 
Mark Twain. American Playhouse presenta
tion on WQED, Channel 13. Starring Ken How
ard. 9 p.m.
Music
Theater
Through Jan. 28 The Basic Training of Pavlo 
Hummel by David Rabe. The Famous Rider, 
3300 Fifth Ave., Oakland. Thu.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 
7 p.m. 681-1476.
Through Feb. 4 The Greeks adapted from 
Aeschylus, Sophocles, Euripides and Homer. 
Part 1: The Wars, Wed. 8 p.m.; Sat. 1 p.m. 
Part 2: The Murders, Thu. 8 p.m.; Sat 4 p.m. 
Part 3: The Gods, Fri. 8c Sat. 8 p.m. CMU 
Drama Dept., Kresge Theater, College of Fine 
Arts. 578-2407.
Through Feb. 5 The Day of the Picnic, by 
Russell Davis. New' City Theatre Company, 
South Bouquet 8c Sennott Sts., Oakland. Thu.- 
Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. 624-6781. 
Through Feb. 12 K2 by Patrick Meyers. Pitts
burgh Public Theater, Allegheny Square, North 
Side. Tue.-Sat. 8 p.m.; Sun. 7 p.m.; Thu., Sat 8c 
Sun. 2 p.m. 321-9800.
Through Feb.12 American Buffalo by David 
Mamet. The Playhouse Theatre Company, Pitts
burgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Ave., Oakland. Thu.-
Jan. 24 String Quartet. Christopher Phillips, vio
lin; Michele LeFevie, violin; Walter Singer, 
viola; Sangw'on Shinn, cello. Alumni Concert 
Hall, CFA. 8 p.m.
Jan. 25 Luther Vandross, with DeBarge. Stanley 
Theatre, 207 Seventh Ave., Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 
Info: 281-2800. Tickets: 765-2266.
Jan. 27 Mozarts Birthday. The music of Wolf
gang Amadeus Mozart will be played all day on 
WQED 89.3 FM.
Jan. 27 Sc 28 Spyro Gyra. Main Room, Holiday 
House, 3755 Wm. Penn Hwy., Monroeville. 8:30 
8c 11 p.m. 824-4000.
Jail. 28 Senior Recital. Peter Hensel, french horn. 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA. 8 p.m.
Jan. 29  Home Sweet Home: Nineteenth Cen
tury Household Music from Western Pennsylva
nia. Kate Young, mezzo-soprano; Tom 
Critchfield, piano; James Ferla, guitar; Jean 
Thomas, flute. Univ. of Pgh., Stephen Foster 
Memorial, Forbes Ave., Oakland. 8:30 p.m.
Jan. 29 8c 30 Carnegie-Mellon Chamber Orches
tra, conducted by Werner Torkanowsky. Includ
ing Bachs Cantata No. 202 (Donna Zapola, 
soprano) and Mozarts Piano Concerto in E flat 
Major (John Rusnak, piano). Alumni Concert 
Hall, CFA. 8 p.m.
Exhibits
Through Jan. 29 Marvin Rabinovitz: A Photo
graphic Retrospective 1965-1982. Commons 
Room Gallery, Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, 
6300 Fifth Ave., Shadyside. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5
Why do outstanding systems programmers work in Seattle, WA?
Microsoft
Microsoft develops the leading 
edge in microcomputer systems 
software Our BASIC is world re
nowned Our MS DOS has com
puter companies and others 
chomping at the Pit We design 
state-of-the-art system software
We need programmers to work on 
Operating Systems Compilers 
(FORTRAN, COBOL, Pascal BASIC 
C) Wora Processing Data Base 
Management Systems. Graphics 
and more
Our OEM customer base is a 
Who s Who of the hardware busi
ness (IBM Apple, Radio Shock In
tel. Tektronix) As new systems, like 
the IBM Personal Computer and 
new processors like the 68000 
are developed Microsoft s pro
grammers get their hands on the 
machines before they go into 
production So your hardware 
suggestions and software innova
tions during R ft D become port of 
the computers of the future
Microsoft provides the best sys 
tems programming work 
environment
all the high-level hardware (DEC 
2060, two 1170s, and VAX 11750 
development systems) and the 
software development tools 
you II need in a
 small company with lots of inter
action and sharing of ideas and 
methoas where
 you can aevelop your full 
potential
And Microsoft is still in the Great
Pacific Northwest with
 mountains, ocean, desert ram 
forest, rivers and lakes all within 
easy reach
 maior cultural, sports, social 
and commercial activities in 
Seattle, just fifteen minutes 
away
We are looking for outstanding 
programmersthose with intelli
gence drive, and a commitment 
to excellence
We want programmers who will 
advance The Standard in micro
computer software
Microsoft offers an exceptional 
compensation and benefits 
package
We will be interviewing on campus 
Thursday, February 2, 19*4. 
Please contact your career placement 
office for schedule information.
BETTER TOOLS FOR 
MICROCOMPUTERSMICROSOFT
MICROSOFT CORPORATION 
10700 NORTHUP WAV 
BELLEVUE WASHINGTON 98004
p.m.; Sunday 2-5 p.m.
Through Jan. 29 Joan Russell, Artist of the Yedr 
1984, (fiber art) 8c Jon Beckley (paintings 8c w0r|.. 
on paper). Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, ;\SS(> 
ciated Artists of Pittsburgh Gallery, Pittsbur h 
Center for the Arts, 6300 Fifth Ave., Shadysi^ 
Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sunday 2-5 p.m. 
Through Jan. 29 Great Drawings from the 341 
lection of the Royal Institute of British Archi 
tects. Gallery A, Carnegie Museum of Art, 44^ 
Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-Sp^, 
Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3212.
Through Jan. 30 Elliott Watercolors. Chai 
ing Exhibits Gallery, Carnegie Museum of Natu 
ral History, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat 
10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283. 
Through Jan. 30 An Arctic Oasis. Can 
Museum of Natural History Gallery, 4400 Forbes 
Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-! 
p.m. 622-3283.
Through Jan. 31 Photographs by Mauro Altai 
ura. Pittsburgh Film-Makers, 205 Oakland Ave 
Oakland. Mon.-Fri. 10 a.m.-8 p.m.; Sat. Noonp.m. 681-5449.
Through Feb. 1 Sanchi, sculpture by Am* 
Elliot. Hewlett Gallery, CFA. Sun. 1-4 pj 
Mon.-Fri. 11 a.m.-4 p.m.; Sat. noon-4 p.m. 
Through Feb. 2 Arty-Facts, a non 
photographic show by Judith Sullivan. B] 
Image Gallery, 4626 Forbes Ave., Oakland. Thu.; 
Fri.,8c Sun. 1-5 p.m.; Sat. 11 a.m.-6 p.m. 261-6056 
Through Feb. 5 Works by Christopher Anselrh, 
Priore (sculpture and paintings) and Daw 
Marie Ulicny (b8cw photographs) featured. Pitts 
burgh Plan for Art, 407 South Craig St., 
land. Tue.-Sat 10 a.m.-5 p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m 
Through Feb. 19 Highlights from the Photo 
graphy Collection. Gallery 10, Carnegie Insd 
tute, Forbes Ave., Oakland. Tue.-Sat. 10 a.m.-i 
p.m.; Sun. 1-5 p.m. 622-3283.
Jan. 26 & 27 Oriental, American 8c European 
(etchings, woodcuts, lithos, serigraphs 8c paint 
ings). Highlander Room. 10 a.m.-5 p.m.
Sports
Jan. 25HOCKEY. Penguins vs. New Ya 
Rangers. Civic Arena, Downtown. 7:30 p.m. 642 
2062.
Jan. 25 BASKETBALL. CMU vs. Washington 
Jefferson College. Skibo Gym. 8 p.m.
Jan. 27 SOCCER. Spirit vs. Phoenix. Q\i 
Arena, Downtown. 8 p.m. 624-2062.
Jan. 29 SOCCER. Spirit vs. Baltimore. Gti 
Arena, Downtown. 2 p.m. 624-2062.
Dance
Jan. 27-29 Giselle. Pittsburgh Ballet Theau 
Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., Downtown. Fri..Sa 
8 p.m.; Sun. 2 p.m. 281-0360.
Computer Cryptogram
Test your deciphering abilities. 
Solution included. , 
Only one dollar.
Sunnyside Publications,
P.O. Box 283 
Dept. T-84 
Kent, Ohio 44240.
allegheny 
reproductive 
health 
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
lousing
in
K^dyside Sublet  Available immediately. 
Roommate needed to share this spacious 2- 
(tedroom apartment, own bedroom. Also 
ncludes equipped kitchen, bathroom, and huge 
iving room-dining area. Only $-187 including allt
tiliues. Close to bus lines and CMU campus. ,all-to-wall carpeting in security building. Call 
2-6761 after 6 p.m.
ouse for rent. Sunny, 2 bedrooms with haseient, attic, and yard. Shopping, laundry, and 
iuses convenient. $400 monthly. Call 486-2683. 
^.je-Bedroom Apartment in Shadyside now 
jvailable, wall-to-wall carpeting, parking, 
puonal lease, $275. 363-3560.ervices
ildcare. Is your toddler lost in large nursery 
thool environment? Experienced woman proides quality care full and part-ume in home in 
juinel Hill  CMU area. Pre-school instrucjn, activities and meals. Excellent references. 
33-2277.
[lying Fingers Word Processing. Business/acaemic papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Edidng 
lduded. Erika Van Sickel 731-8978.
[empfield Recording. Eight track studio includig state of the art digital signal processing 
juipment creates excellent opportunity at reasoible fees. Musicians/music students. 864-0786. 
koving? We go in the snow. Call Second Mile 
|ight Hauling, ask for Vince. 231-2766.
:iubs
akland Review. Now accepung poetry, ficuon,
I lays, b&w illustrauon, photographs for the 1984 
>ue. Submit material to Skibo Informadon
esk by Feb. 1.f
MU Law Club. Anyone interested in law or law 
hool please call x8989. First meeting Tuesday, 
anuary 24 in GSIA 213.
Ballroom Dnce: leam to swing, polka, cha-cha, 
and more! Tuesdays 7:30-9. $10 for semester. Call 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church at 682-4300.
CMU Lacrosse Club. Organizational meeung 
tonight, Tuesday, January 24, at 9:30 in Skibo 
Room 11. Anyone interested should attend. 
Questions call 687-6893.
Oakland Review, CMUs literary magazine, is 
now accepting submissions of poetry, fiction, 
one-act plays, black and white drawings, prints, 
and photography, for its 1984 edition. All writing 
submissions should include a cover sheet, and 
may be placed at Skibo Information Desk c/o 
Editor, Oakland Review. Art submissions may 
be placed there, or at Room 302, CFA. Deadline is 
February 1. Questions: call the editor, x4466.
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting, Wednesday at 4:30 
in Skibo Room 11. Students of all majors are 
ivited to participate in AIESECs international 
invited to participate in AIESECs international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
Get Famous. Submit poetry, ficiton, plays, b&w 
photos, illustrations to Oakland Review at Skibo 
Information Desk. Deadline Feb. 1.
Any males with some volleyball experience inter
ested in playing competitive volleyball with the 
CMU Mens Club, contact Erick, x4950 or x4949. 
Amaze Your Friends. See your work in print. 
Submit writing and b&w art to Oakland Review, 
Skibo Information Desk.
Care about the right to life? Like to get involved? 
Join the CMU Association for Life, Call Terry 
Turton at x4826 or Pat Falco at x8618 for more 
information. Remember: Rest Easy, Youve 
Already Been Bom.
For sale/Wanted
For Sale  Beautiful warm fur coat. Excellent 
condition, cheap. Call 362-7203 (pm).
A ride wanted to California, San Francisco area. 
Call at 486-1277 between 1/24 and 1/31,5-7 p.m.
WANTED: Informadon. On Wednesday, Janu
ary 18th, at 4:50 p.m., a red pickup truck hit two 
cars parked on Margaret Morrison Street across 
from Donner hall. Please call Jim at x4220 after 
6:00 p.m. if you have any additional information 
about the truck. Reward will be given for infor
mation leading to identity of truck/driver.
General
Lost: white wool mittens, December 1 or 2, in or 
around Skibo. I really love them and need them. 
Please call Kim if you know their whereabouts. 
578-3828 or 422-9760.
Lost: Gold ring with red garnet stone, sentimen
tal  reward, call Marianne 687-5499.
Lost: Black and silver plate-linked bracelet Of
utmost sentimental value. Reward. Kathy 
Molisky 578-4434.
Attention CMU Sunbathers! Surfs up but our
prices arent! From just $109  spend 7 fun-filled 
days in sunny Florida. Call for yourself or organ
ize a small group and travel FREE! Great for 
clubs, too! Call LUV TOURS 800-368-2006, ask 
for Annette.
Wanderlust? Summer uavel plans? Try Youth 
Hostels this year! Over 300 in USA, with 5000 
worldwide. Individual travel or group trips avail
able. Membership $10 for under 18s, $20 for 
those over 18. For informaiton, brochures write 
A. Y. H. Hostels, 6300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15232.
Accepting applications for part-time position. 
Must be able to show professional office-building 
in the Shadyside area to prospects. Professional 
appearance a must. Send resume to P. Cum
mings, Bernstein Properties, Inc., 394 E. Town 
St., Columbus, OH 43215.
Academic Bag Ladies: over 25, in school, new 
career. Meet 12-1, Lutheran Center, 4515 Forbes. 
Call 682-6886 for information.
Electrical Engineering Grads Harris Semicon
ductor, a major IC producer, will conduct oncampus interviews on Tuesday, February 7. 
Openings available in all phases of IC design, 
processng, test, device engineering and market
ing. Contact Placement Office to arrange inter
views or call our college relations office 
COLLECT at 305-729-5768. Equal opportunity 
employer m/f/h.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students, between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, January 24. 
Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200.
Hey cutie  Happy Anniversary! The last six 
months have been fantastic. I will never forget all 
the fun we have had and I will look forawrd to 
the times we will be sharing in the future. I hope 
what we have will last a lifetime. Thinking of 
you always. As for saresuope, possibly, but 
always remember that I love you and that texvi 
nec dimittam. XXX...OOO... BIP. With all 
my love, Jeanne. P.S. Call me tonight, usual 
time.
Eating Behaviors: Is food a bigger part of your 
life than you want it to be? Leam new ways of 
weight control that are healthful and helpful to 
personal growth. Mondays, Feb. 6-Mar. 5 (four 
meetings), 4-5:30 p.m.
Getting Close: A Look at Intimate Relation
ships: What is intimacy and how is it achieved. 
Does your behavior invite or block opportunities 
for close relationship. The physical, emotional, 
intellectual and spiritual aspects of relationship 
will be explored on three Thursday evenings, 
Feb. 2, 9, and 16, 4-5:30 p.m.
Effective Study Skills: Develop more effective 
study habits. Major topics will be time manage
ment, study methods, relaxation techniques, 
study motivation and exam preparation. Four 
Thursdays, February 9,16,23, Mar. 1,4-5:30p.m. 
For further information, call the Counseling and 
Student Development Center at x2922 
Test Anxiety Workshop: This workshop is 
designed for those who find anxiety prevents 
them from doing their best on exams. Maximize 
your performance this semester and attend Wed
nesdays, Feb. 8 and 15 (two meetings), 4-5:30 p.m. 
Anthony Penna, associate dean of H&SS, will 
have open office hours for students between 2 and 
5 p.m. every Wednesday. Students who wish to 
meet with Dr. Penna should telephone his office, 
578-2830, to set up an appointment.
A TTN: CLASS of 1984
You are Cordially Invited to the Annual Carnegie-Mellon University BanquetDate : Saturday, February 4 Time: 7:00 pm Reception 8:00 pm Dinner Place: Skibo Ballroom/Kiltie Cafe
Please pick up your complimentary ticket at the 
Alumni office, Warner Hall 505. Deadline Feb 1
Semi-formal Attire is Requested
Student Alumni Relations Council

---------------------------------------------------

CAESARSPIZZA
%%O'
and
ASTROMBOLIES.:
3607 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
Finest in Quality  Homemade sauce 
Fresh dough  made daily 
Huge hoagies  Fresh salads
Only place in the city for strombolies
%
STROMBOUES
Superb sandwich baked inside fresh dough 
A Delicious Experience
V$0|
Italian Ham Steak (cheese included)
&Meatball Hot Sausage Sweet Sausage Vegetarian (Extras 50P)
Oven Baked Hoagies
Italian
Ham & Cheese
Meat Ball
Hot Sausage
Sweet Sausage
Steak-Cheese (100% Sirbin)
Capicollo
Cheese
Vegetarian
Extras
Whole
2.75 
3.25 
3.30
3.40
3.40
3.50
3.50 
3.20
2.75 
0.50
Half
1.60
1.70
1.75
1.85
1.85
1.90
1.90
1.75 
1.60 
0.25
Tossed
Antipasto
Salads
(with garlic bread)
Two Types of Great Pizzo]
Authentic Style
Junior 
Small 
Medium 
Large 
Ex. Large 
Single Cut
9"
12"
14"
16"
18"
Cuts
46
8
10
12
(1)
Extras
.70
.80
.95
1.00
1.10
.20
Price
2.50
3.50
4.50 
5.00
5.50 
0.75
Traditional Thick Sicilian
Small 
Medium 
Ex. Large 
Single Cut
s'
&
4
9
16
1
Pepperoni 
Mushrooms 
Hot Sausage 
Sweet Sausage 
Green Pepper
.70
1.00
1.80.20
3.00 
5.50 
8.60 
0.75
Extra Cheese]
Ham
Onions
Anchovies 
Hot Peppers! 
Black Olives!If you havent tried Caesars, ask someone who has!
1 Free Qt Pepsi with any stromboli
1 Free Qt Pepsi with any small or medium pizza
2 Free Qt Pepsi with any large or x-large pizza
FREE DELIVERY!681-9100 I
_________________________________J
