4^
'c?&
e 82, Issue 23e Tartan
Carnegie Mellon UniversityApril 19,1988
INSIDE
FEATURES................Page 10
Art students design maze for Childrens 
School and interview with SEI protestor
SPORTS.....................Page 16
Mens track ends Grove Citys win 
streak and Pirate update
CMU to co-sponsor 
Democratic debate
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
v  Seventy five Carnegie Mellon students will 
be able to attend a debate between the two 
Democratic front-runners this Saturday at 
8:00 pm at the Steel Valley High School audi
torium in Munhall.
Presidential candidates Rev. Jesse Jackson 
and Massachusetts Governor Michael 
Dukakis have agreed to participate in the hourlong debate, which is being co-sponsored by 
) Carnegie Mellon and the Tri-State Conference 
on Steel and being underwritten by the United 
Steelworkers of America (USWA).
The element that binds the three organiza
tions together is our mutual interest in eco
nomic development. We are concerned that 
we have a strong industrial base which means 
that we have a strong steel industry, said 
Carnegie Mellon President Richard M. Cyert.
Of the 700 available tickets, Carnegie Mel
lon, like the other sponsoring organizations, 
will be given 100, 25 of which will go to 
administrators and faculty members while the 
others are distributed to students.
Free student tickets will be distributed 
Thursday morning starting at 7:30 am in 5017 
Forbes on a first come, first served basis to the 
first 75 students with valid IDs. Only one
- ticket will be given per ID.
The office of Public Relations has agreed to
sponsor a bus which will leave at 6:30 pm 
Saturday from the Skibo parking lot for the 15 
minute ride to Munhall; students will be asked 
to sign up for transportation when they pick up 
their tickets on Thursday.
Invitations have been extended to Tennessee 
Senator Albert Gore and Illinois Senator Paul 
Simon, though neither is expected to partici
pate.
According to Julie Violich, Gores Assistant 
Press Secretary, the debate is still a possibility 
for the Senator though that would probably 
depend on how well he does in New York 
today.
A spokesman for Simon, Press Aide Chris 
Ryan, said that he is definitely not coming and 
that he had decided a week ago last Thursday.
The candidates will be asked six questions, 
one each from the sponsoring organizations 
and four videotaped from members of the 
community, including a school teacher, a 
steelworker, and a SUPA student.
The SUPA student, 3-1-1 senior and first 
year Master student Leslie Williams, was 
picked as a representative student who was 
also planning to go into the public arena. 
Williams was nominated by SUPA Assistant 
Dean Harold Miller and confirmed by SUPA 
Dean Alfred Blumstein.
The candidates will be allowed to prepare for 
continued on page 3
Student Senate Election Results
President
Andy Robitshek 478
Fred Goff......................................234
George Baggott 36
CIT 
Four Spring Seats
Mark Mittelhauser.....................142
Jeff Rosenblum............................134
Ethan Evans103
Barry Brumitt................95
H&SS 
Three Spring Seats
Michael Barros...............................89
Carlos Franco.................................75
Frank DiViro..................................73
MCS
Two Spring Seats
Michael Herron............................54
Lisa Christina................................44
CFA
Three Spring Seats
Glenn Kornbrek____________81
Chris Neighbor............................64
Roy Conrad...................................17
Two Fall Seats
....10Eva Lingle.
Ingrid Brombers..................(tie) 6
Marie Cole.............................(tie) 6
David J. Kyle.........................(tie) 6
Voter turnout: 824, 14.1 %
Spring Fling scheduled for April 29
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
The annual Spring Fling will be held Friday, 
April 29 at 7 pm at Carnegie Music Hall. 
George Gee and His Make Believe Ballroom 
Orchestra will play at the dinner and dance 
event open to students, staff, alumni, and fac
ulty.
The cost for students is $9, while others will 
be charged $11. Anyone wishing to attend
only the dance, which is expected to begin 
around 8:30 pm, will be asked to pay $3.
According to Angela Taylor, co-chairman of 
the social committee, organizers expect 350 
people to attend. Spring Fling is sponsored by 
the Student Advisory Committee of H&SS.
Spring Fling had been held at Carnegie 
Music Hall until 1985. Recently, it has been 
held at the William Penn Hotel and the Top of 
the Triangle.
Two demonstrators arrested at SEI
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter 
A group protesting Carnegie Mellons in
volvement in military projects capped off a 
five day vigil at the clock in front of Doherty 
Hall Friday morning, April 15, by marching to 
the Software Engineering Institute (SEI) and 
staging a demonstration.
The demonstration was held Friday because 
April 15 is the deadline for filing federal in
come tax returns and the protestors wanted to 
emphasize that the SEI is being supported by 
their tax dollars.
The group, led by Vincent Eirene, was affili
ated with Duncan and Porter House, an organi
zation on the North Side which helps homeless 
people. Fifteen to twenty people participated 
in the protest. Bill Frizren, a member of the left 
wing New Student Network at the University 
of Pittsburgh, estimated that about half of the 
protestors were Carnegie Mellon students.
Eirene, 36, has been involved in similar 
protests since 1968 when he began by partici
pating in demonstrations against the Vietnam 
war. He explained earlier in the week that I 
think that our economy is becoming based on 
a military economy ... [and that] its a sin that 
we are willing to destroy the world over a 
difference in political ideology. Eirene talked 
about civil disobedience, saying If we are
photo by Jonathan Levy
Protestor Vincent Eirene is carried into a police car by two city officers after blocking 
traffic near the Software Engineering Institute on Friday.
going to speak to the injustice then we have to 
transgress the laws that protect the injustice.
The protestors left from the clock at 8:10 am 
carrying two signs saying Divest War and 
Earthpeace not Starwars. They walked 
down Forbes Avenue and Craig Street, arriv
ing at the back of the SEI. After stopping 
briefly they moved along South Dithridge to 
the front of the SEI on Fifth Avenue.
The group stood in front of the building for 
about ten minutes holding up their signs for 
passing traffic. Some members of the group 
began singing Down by the Riverside. 
Three or four police officers were present but 
did not interfere with the protest.
At about 8:40 the group moved to the SJEI 
garage entrance on South Dithridge. While the 
others stood across the street holding the signs, 
Eirene and one of the other leaders of the 
demonstration, Kevin Forsythe, knelt in front 
of the garage entrance to block cars attempting 
to enter. The obstruction was timed to interfere 
with people arriving for work at the SEI.
After about five minutes, the one Pittsburgh 
and two Carnegie Mellon policemen present 
opened the other entrance gate and a number of 
cars entered the garage before Eirene moved to 
kneel in front of that gate. A few minutes later 
the policemen opened the third gate which is 
normally used as an exit and cars began to 
enter through it.
Eirene and Forsythe responded by lying 
down in the street, one on each side of the 
garage, to block approaching traffic. How
ever, their bodies did not completely block the 
street and the policemen directed the cars 
around them and into the garage.
At one point the city policemen politely 
asked both men if they realized that they were 
in violation of the law. When they said yes,
the policemen left them alone until two city 
police cars arrived at 8:55 am and police offi
cers arrested them. The arrests were made 
peacefully and neither man resisted although 
Eirene had to be lifted into the police car.
The police officers conferred for several 
minutes over whether Eirene and Forsythe 
should be transferred to a paddy wagon and 
where they should be taken. They finally 
decided to leave them in the car and took them 
to the Public Safety Building where they were 
charged with Disorderly Conduct and Ob
structing Traffic. Both charges are summary 
offenses and each carries a maximum penalty 
of 90 days in jail and a $300 fine. Eirene 
received a ten day jail term for similar activi
ties when the SEI opened in December and 
said before the protest that he expected a ten to 
thirty day sentence this time.
On the way to the SEI Carnegie Mellon 
freshman Jen Saffron said that she was partici
pating in the protest because Our university 
should be a place for learning and growing and 
not affiliated with destruction. Saffron also 
criticized the lack of political activity at Car
negie Mellon, saying that I think for the most 
part our university is totally apathetic.
After the protest the participants seemed 
pleased with the way it had turned out. Saffron 
felt that weve caused enough [people] strife 
that they are probably going to be pretty angry 
and then probably go into work and start tell
ing stories ... so I figure maybe some people 
will get the message.
The Director of the Software Process Pro
gram Watts S. Humphrey at the SEI was not 
bothered by the protest. He has seen simi lar 
demonstrations in the past and said, We cer
tainly respect their right to protest although it 
is not affecting our operation.'

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 19, 1988
Mir/ Mgr*^gjr g
U.S. frigate encounters 
mines in Persian Gulf
WASHINGTON (AP)  The U.S. guidedmissile frigate Samuel B. Roberts encountered 
a mine field in the Persian Gulf with numerous 
mines Thursday morning before its hull was 
ripped open by one of the underwater explo
sives, Pentagon officials said.
The sources also said the frigate had suffered 
extensive damage, with at least 12 feet of 
water flooding the engine room at one point.
The Roberts had come to an almost complete 
stop in the water at the time of the explosion 
after successfully maneuvering away from 
several mines spotted by lookouts, the offi
cials said.
The effort to maneuver out of the mine field 
was hampered by rough seas, however^and the 
mine the frigate eventually hit was probably 
moored to the bottom, the officials said.
U.S. Defense Department officials, who 
agreed to discuss the matter only if not identi
fied, said at least two mines had been spotted 
Friday by a reconnaissance helicopter dis
patched by other U.S. Navy ships in the area.
The sources said the Navy now had four 
mine-sweeping ships closing in on the patch of 
water in the central gulf where the Roberts was 
hit to begin a search.
Ideally, wed like to recover one of these 
mines, said one source. But we also want to 
do it safely. The seas out there are still heavy. 
It may take a while.
U.S. says it damaged 
Panamas economy
WASHINGTON (DJ)  United States at
tempts to topple Panamanian strongman 
Manuel Antonio Noriega have caused seri
ous damage to Panamas economy, but it will 
bounce back. President Reagans spokesman, 
Marlin Fitzwater, predicted last Monday.
Fitzwater said U.S.-imposed sanctions 
were designed to strangle the financial sys
tem" of the Central American nation but not to 
harm the general population.
The spokesman was asked to respond to
Correction:
Last week The Tartan incorrectly re
ported that Dave Dillon lost his match 
two weeks ago against Pitt in the two tie 
breakers, when in fact he won.
assertions by leading Panamanians that the 
past weeks of financial turmoil have crippled 
the countrys once-flourishing economic sys
tem, perhaps forever.
Panama, which uses the U.S. dollar as its 
currency, had become known as a stable bank
ing center in North and South America.
Fitzwater defended administration moves as 
attempting to deny Noriega ... money that 
could be used to perpetuate his stay in power.
Arabs killed during 
attempt to enter Israel
JERUSALEM (AP)  Israeli soldiers today 
shot and killed three Arab guerrillas who were 
trying to infiltrate from Lebanon on a hostagetaking mission, the military said.
Meanwhile, violent protests persisted for a 
second day in the Gaza Strip, which was home 
to five of the eight Palestinians whom Israel 
deported to Lebanon last Monday. Hospital 
and relief officials said at least 21 Arabs were 
injured.
Before dawn Wednesday, soldiers on a rou
tine patrol spotted the three guerrillas just 
north of the Kfar Yuval collective farm, 
chased them and opened fire, the army said in 
a statement.
The military communique didnt give the 
affiliation of the guerrillas who carried out 
Wednesday's raid but said they were armed 
with M-16 rifles, four rockets and hand gre
nades. It said they were on a hostage-taking 
mission" but gave no other details.
Trade deficit triggers 
stock market slide
NEW YORK (DJ)  Wall Streets shock 
over the widening of the trade deficit in Febru
ary sent the stock market into a sharp retreat, 
and a barrage of sell programs tied to stockindex arbitrage worsened the damage.
The Dow Jones Industrial Average recorded 
its fifth-largest point loss ever by falling 
101.46 to 2,005.63, which erased most of its 
130-point advance during a six-session rally 
that ended last Tuesday. It was the averages 
worst showing since Jan. 8, when a 140.58- 
point plunge brought another rally to an end.
The markets troubles began an hour before 
trading even opened, as the government re
ported that the merchandise trade deficit wid
ened to S13.83 billion in February from $ 12.44 
billion in January.
Analysts had expected the gap to narrow to 
about $11 billion, and the plunges in the bond
Postal Business and Communication Services
ML BOXES ETC. USA
ITS EASY!
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS!
Enjoy a hassle-free move back 
home. No need to worry about 
room in the car, packing boxes for 
the plane, or extra trips for your 
family.
MAIL BOXES ETC. CAN SHIP ANYTHING ANYWHERE!
Just take your things (clothes, 
stereo. books, computer, 
typewriter, etc.) to the store and 
MBE will pack and ship them 
directly to your home.
If you plan ahead, you could have 
everything home before you get 
there!
LOCATION: 414 South Craig St. 
PHONE: 687-6100
market and the dollar that greeted the report 
were mirrored in the stock market. The Dow 
industrials dropped nearly 40 points in the first 
half-hour and hovered near its lows for most of 
the morning.
By early afternoon, the loss in the Dow 
industrials had widen to 50 points. That 
prompted the NYSE to put its rule into effect 
that asks member firms not to use its auto
mated order delivery system to carry out 
stock-index arbitrage.
Shortly afterward, however, index futures 
began to trade at sharp discounts to the cash 
indices. That prompted several securities 
firms to execute sell programs manually, trad
ers said, and the market eventually buckled 
under the weight of the programs.
Senate approves 
budget of $1.1 trillion
WASHINGTON (DJ)  The Senate ap
proved a $1.1 trillion budget for fiscal year 
1989 that its supporters say will leave a deficit 
of $136 billion, or $141.8 billion if one does 
not count revenues garnered from the sale of 
government assets.
The Senate approved the spending blueprint 
by a 69-26 vote. The budget resolution now 
will go to a House-Senate conference commit
tee, which will iron out remaining differences 
in the two budgets. The House passed its 
budget last month.
Generally, the House chose to fund science, 
space and technologies somewhat less than the 
Senate, and instead the House would direct 
more funds to housing, education, transporta
tion and health programs.
The bulk of the budget  including revenue 
targets and defense and entitlement spending
 was worked out in the budget summit held 
last November between the White House and 
Congress. The summit agreement left law
makers with only discretionary spending lev
els to decide upon this year. As a result, the 
budget process has moved along relatively 
quickly.
Byrd to quit as Senate 
majority leader
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Senate majority 
leader Robert Byrd, D-W.Va., formally an
nounced his intentions to resign as leader of 
the Senate Democrats as of the end of 1988.
At a news conference, Byrd declined to en
dorse a successor, and said he looks forward to 
being chairman of the Senate Appropriations 
Committee, a seniority ranking on the large 
panel that has taken him 30 years of Senate 
service to achieve.
Byrd was philosophical in announcing his 
plans to step down. He chided the Reagan 
administration for extremism, but also 
warned that the Senate itself should be more
than an insular debating society.
Byrd said his chief regret, after serving as ^ 
Democratic leader since 1977, is that Con
gress has yet to approve campaign financing 
reforms that he sees as necessary.
NASA says cutbacks 
will delay space station
WASHINGTON (AP)  NASA told Congress that money cutbacks would cause com
pletion of a U.S. space station to be delayed 
one year, but that a robot laboratory on the - 
station will be in operation earlier than 
planned.
The realities of the federal budgefenvironment are clear, James C. Fletcher, adminis
trator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration, told the chairmen of the % 
House and Senate committees that oversee the 
space agency.
NASA had asked for $767 million for the 
space station in the current fiscal year, but 
received $425 million. The agency wanted 
$1.8 billion in the year that begins next Oct. 1, 
but the president's budget proposal would 
give it $1 billion.
Fletcher said that, among the alternatives fb 
available, stretching out the time to build the 
station is the only sensible way, since more 
than four years and $600 million already have 
gone into planning the station configuration 
and because the program management is solid 
and is producing results.
Under the schedule he outlined in letters to 
Rep. Edward P. Boland (D., Mass.) and Sen. 
William Proxmire (R., Wis.), the first flight# 
ferrying building materials for the station into 
space will be early in 1995, a year later than 
planned. It would be completed in late 1996.
Giant Eagle, union 
reach agreement
PITTSBURGH  The food store chain 
Giant Eagle and a union representing 5,100 
employees agreed Friday night to a tentative ^ 
labor pact. The agreement prevented a strike at 
37 of Giant Eagles stores in the Pittsburgh 
area.
Two labor contracts with Giant Eagles cor
porate-run stores expired Saturday night.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.ID
London School of Economics 
and Political Science
A chance to study and live in London
Junior-year programs, Postgraduate Diplomas, OneYear Masters Degrees and Research Opportunities in 
the Social Sciences.
The wide range of subjects includes:- 
Accounting and Finance  Actuarial Science  Business Studies  Economics  Econometrics  Economic History  European Studies  Geography  Government  Health Planning  Housing  Industrial 
Relations  International History  International Relations  Law  Management Science  Operational Research  Philosophy, Logic & Scientific Method  Population Studies  Politics  Regional and Urban Planning  Sea-Use Policy  Social Administration  
Social Anthropology  Social Planning in Developing Countries  Social Work  Sociology  Social Psychology  Statistical and Mathematical Sciences  Systems Analysis 
Application forms from:
Admissions Registrar, Room 10, L.S.E..
Houghton Street. London WC2A 2AE. England, 
stating whether undergraduate or postgraduate
LSE

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage 3
Group critical of Israeli use of tear gas
By CARLOS FRANCOTartan Staffwriter 
A press conference was held by the 
Committee to Stop Chemical Ag
gression (CSCA) against Palestini
ans at Ecumenical Urban Ministries 
1 Oakland on Thursday, April 14. 
The press conference served to an
nounce a protest march held on Sat
urday, April 16 against Federal 
Laboratories in Saltsburg, Pennsyl
vania, which is a supplier of tear gas 
to Israel.
The CSCA claims that tear gas is 
directly responsible for the deaths of 
1 civilians and blames eighty still
births on the gas. Moreover, the 
group claims that the gas is paid for 
by the United States government
A picture unfolded of wanton and indiscriminate use of violence against an 
entire population without regard for individual guilt or innocence.
 Barbara Lubin
through its aid to Israel.
In an effort to gain public attention 
to the use of the tear gas in Israel, the 
Saturday march is being staged. The 
group hopes to turn public opinion 
against the use of the tear gas and by 
doing so make Federal Laboratories 
stop its manufacture of the chemical.
The group would also like the U.S. 
government to stop providing aid to 
Israel because they (CSCA) feel that 
the money is being used to violate 
the Palestinian human rights.
The press conference began with 
five speakers recounting their recent 
experiences in Israel and the West 
Bank. Three of the speakers were 
members of an emergency fact find
ing delegation from the United 
States sanctioned by the United 
Nations.
Barbara Lubin, one member of the 
U.S. delegation, displayed three 
used tear gas canisters; although 
they were a month old they still had 
a very strong odor. She stated that
Carnegie Mellon to sponsor debate
continued from page 1 
the first three questions, but not 
the last three, said KDKA News 
Director Sue Mclnemey.
The debate will be simul-cast 
on KDKA-TV and KDKA Radio 
with no commercial interrup
tions, and KDKA will pay for all 
production costs. Ray Tannehill, 
news anchor for KDKA-TV, will 
moderate.
Leon Lynch, Vice President for 
Human Affairs, USWA, ex
plained the debate at its an
nouncement last Tuesday in 
Skibo.
I think this is the first time the 
candidates will have been in a
steel haven. The steel industry has 
been hit harder than any other indus
try. The steelworkers can tell you 
first-hand because weve lost 444 
steel plants since 1982. It will be sig
nificant to us to hear the candidates 
talk about our problems right in the 
area where those problems are, and 
listen to our unemployed members, 
and listen to the leadership of the 
union, and listen to other members 
of the community that are adversely 
affected by those steel mills closing 
down, said Lynch.
Cyert praised the debate. It is 
important as a University that we 
play a role in society and I think that 
it speaks well of Carnegie Mellon
that the Steelworkers came to us.
Since the debate is being under
written by the Steelworkers, the 
University is only contributing 
sundry supplies like press re
leases and in-kind donations of 
PR staff members time, said PR 
Account Executive John Fedele. 
The Steelworkers are contribut
ing approximately $100,000.
This is the second time each 
candidate has been in the Pitts
burgh area. Jackson announced 
his candidacy here last Labor Day 
while Dukakis was in California, 
Pa. April 9.
The candidates have a debate in 
Philadelphia on Friday.
photo by Andy Gillespie
President Richard M. Cyert and Rev. Garrett Dorsey of the Tri-State Conference on Steel answer 
questions at a press conference held to announce the televised debate.
Questions for candidates released
Question 1: Tri-State Confer
ence on Steel
From 1979 to 1987, the fourcounty area around Pittsburgh 
lost 125,000, or 45 percent, of all 
manufacturing jobs. In Japan, 
France, and Germany, the gov
ernment plays a strong role in 
providing economic support for 
the maintenance and preserva
tion of their basic industries.
In Pittsburgh, we are develop
ing a public/private/worker part
nership to reopen the currently 
closed LTV South Side steel mill, 
up to 500 jobs would be created.
Under your administration, 
what kind of support do you see
the federal government providing to 
such public/private worker efforts?
Question 2: Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity
With respect to our international 
competitiveness, would you outline 
the steps your administration would 
take to enhance technological inno
vation in U.S. industry, and amelio
rate workers adjustment to the 
changing global economy?
Question 3: United Steelworkers of 
America
American steelworkers work less 
hours per ton of steel produced than 
any other steelworkers in the world.
U.S. steelworker wages are not 
significantly higher than those of 
steelworkers in other industrial
ized countries such as Germany, 
Japan, or France.
Yet, American steelworkers 
have learned they cant compete 
even in U.S. markets against 
$3.00-an-hour labor in Brazil, 
Korea, or South Africa. They 
cant compete if the dollar is arti
ficially high. Nor can they com
pete if dumping of steel is allowed 
in U.S. markets. How would your 
administration manage our inter
national trade so that workers like 
American steelworkers will have 
a fair chance to compete?
the recovered canisters, which were 
dated 1988, had been fired at a 
crowd of which her delegation had 
been a part.
According to Lubin, a crowd gath
ered while the group was touring the 
Palestinian village of Idna; she says 
that about fifteen minutes after the 
crowd dispersed Israeli helicopters 
arrived and started shooting tear gas 
into homes. With misty eyes, Lubin 
stated, that A picture unfolded of 
wanton and indiscriminate use of 
violence against an entire popula
tion without regard for individual 
guilt or innocence.
All the speakers seemed to share 
the same feelings of disbelief, shock 
and outrage at the treatment of Pal
estinians by the Israelis.
According to a press release issued 
by CSCA, several national organi
zations have contacted TransTechnology, the parent company of Fed
eral Labs, which is based in Sherman 
Oaks, California, and expressed 
concerns over the use of tear gas. 
The company official, however, 
maintained that the tear gas is a safe 
and effective way to control crowds 
if directions are followed.
The release states that Burl Alison, 
Vice President of TransTechnology, 
reports that the company has ex
pressed concern to the Israeli gov
ernment and offered to train the Is
raeli military on proper use of the 
gases, but the government has not 
responded.
Amy Smith, a member of the 
CSCA, does not want the company 
to instruct the Israelis on how to use 
the gas; instead she wants it to stop 
its sales to Israel.
In response to a question, Lubin 
stated that a demonstration at the 
parent company in California is 
planned, but details are not currently 
available.
On Thursday evening a slide show 
was held at Carnegie Mellon. The 
continued on page 5
Carnegie Mellon In Brief
Two CS professors win NSF award
PITTSBURGH  Two Carnegie Mellon computer science professors 
have received the National Science Foundations (NSF) Presidential Young 
Investigators Award for 1988.
The winners are Marsaru Tomita, assistant professor for computer science 
and associate director of the Center for MachineTranslatiOn, for his work on 
natural language processing, and Justin Douglas Tygar. assistant professor 
of computer science, for his work on computer security systems.
Each awardee will receive reserach funding up to $100,000 for five years 
through a combination of federal grants and matching private funds.Senate passes anti-apartheid resolution
The Student Senate passed an anti-apartheid resolution at its meeting on 
April 12. The resolution states Senates opposition to the system of 
Apartheid in South Africa and advocates as a protest to this system that the 
University divest from companies with holdings in that country.
The Carnegie Mellon Board of Trustees intends to vote on the issue of 
divestment at its board meeting scheduled in May.
An anti-apartheid rally was held in front of Warner Hall in March.
Memorial sculpture to be dedicated
PITTSBURGH  A sculpture to honor the memory of astronaut and 
Carnegie Mellon alumna Judith A. Resnik will be dedicated at 4:30 pm 
today on the Wean Hall patio.
Resnik graduated from CMU in 1970 with a bachelors degree in electrical 
engineering. She was 36 years old when she died in the crash of the space 
shuttle Challenger January 28, 1986.
The sculpture, commissioned by Tau Beta Pi, the nationa1 engineering 
honor society of which Resnik was a member, is a case metal bent set in a 
stone base. It represents the symbol of the society, founded to honor 
outstanding engineering students and to foster a spirit of liberal culture in 
engineering colleges.
Student Senate passes spring budgets
Budgets for the Activities Board, WRCT, The Tartan, and other student 
organizations were approved by the Student Senate last Tuesday. All of the 
budgets were approved as presented to Senate.
Many budgets were approved with little discussion. The Gay and Lesbian 
Alliances (GALA) request for an increase in advertising money drew 
criticism from at least one senator. Members of GALA defended the 
increase, contending that the clubs posters are tom down more often than 
those of other organizations.
Wolitzer to be guest at Adamson Awards
Noted writer Hilma Wolitzer will be the featured guest at Carnegie 
Mellons sixth annual presentation of the Adamson Awards for Excellence 
in Writing at 8 pm Friday in the Adamson Wing of Baker Hall.
Wolitzer has written five novels, including Ending (1974), In the 
Flesh (1977), Hearts (1980), and In the Palomar Arms (1983). Her new 
novel, Silver, will be published in July.
The Adamson Awards are named for Pauline B. Adamson, the late wife of 
alumnus Clarence H. Adamson, who donated funds for the annual awards, 
scholarships in the English department, and a wing in Baker Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanApril 19,1988
Libertarian candidate
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Ron Paul, the Libertarian Presidential candi
date, made a routine stop on-campus last 
Tuesday.
Speaking to an audience of approximately 30 
Carnegie Mellon students, graduate students, 
and faculty in the Hamburg Hall auditorium, 
Paul followed a 40 minute speech with a 30 
minute question and answer session about his 
campaign and party.
According to Paul, the U.S.s two-party 
system has become weak and leaderless and 
the Libertarian party offers a fresh alternative 
whose time has come.
Can you think of a duller, more boring 
campaign than a campaign between George 
Bush and Michael Dukakis? You get a choice 
between Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum if 
you dont choose the Libertarian party, said 
the Greentree native and former U.S. Con
gressman.
Paul, a Duke University Medical School 
graduate and former Houston gynecologist, 
was elected four times to Congress as a Republican before announcing his candidacy for 
President on the Libertarian ticket in February 
1987.
Paul said he switched to the Libertarian Party 
because Reagan did not follow through on his 
campaign promises of less government and 
lower taxes.
The Libertarian Party, the largest third-party 
in the U.S., is based on ultra-conservative 
economic views and radically liberal humani
tarian views.
We are closer to the 1 iberals on civil liberties
 we don't want government telling you how 
to live your life. Conservatives are pretty good 
on economics and we agree with conserva
tives in that area. But we are more likely to 
agree with the principles of liberals who will 
say that you have a right to your life and we 
dont believe that we can protect you from 
yourself. We dont believe that we have a right 
to tell you anything about your lifestyle be
cause thats your business, your life, even if 
you hurt yourself, said Paul.
The candidate believes in liberty over secu
rity, or personal freedom rather than govern
ment social programs. We believe that in a 
free society you have a right to your liberty, 
you have a right to be left alone, you have a 
right to earn a living, and then you have a right 
to keep it because its yours and not the 
governments  youre not obligated to share 
it.
The Libertarian solution to most problems, 
including the deficit, homelessness, AIDS, 
and the devalued dollar, is less government. 
The strongest argument for less government 
and for the Libertarian movement is the bot
tom line argument: How much more of this 
good government can we afford?
Government is basically the problem, he 
said. Government can be the solution, we 
need less government and thats the philoso
phy we promote.
Libertarians believe that income taxes are 
unconstitutional, calling them ten times more 
oppressive than the King of England, and un
necessary with the implementation of their 
proposed governmental cuts.
For economic reasons, the income tax has to 
go. We dont believe in it, we dont need it. We 
believe that we can live without it. It only 
covers 38 percent of the revenue and that's no 
big deal for us. We're going to cut spending by 
a lot more than 38 percent.
Accusing the Federal Reserve of being noth
campaigns on campus.
Libertarian Presidential candidate Ron Paul
ing more than a counterfeiter, Paul is in favor 
of reinstating the gold standard as a solution to 
inflation. Weve legalized counterfeiting. 
The Federal Reserve takes pieces of paper, 
writes numbers on them and says this is money 
and you will use it.
On foreign policy, Paul proposes a non
interventionist, isolationist attitude whereby 
the United States would build a strong national 
defense by ending all military and social aid to 
all foreign countries, even our current NATO 
allies. This, he explained, would cut the mili
tary budget in half while fortifying our own 
defense by bringing all our weapons and per
sonnel home. Under Pauls system, wars 
would only be defensive.
In addition, he thinks that the draft and even 
registration should be abolished and the mili
tary should be completely voluntary. While 
everyone should be willing to serve and to^ 
fight, he feels that it is an invasion of personal 
liberties to ask someone to register.
Pauls solution to the AIDS epidemic is to 
continued on page 5
Former Texas Congress
man Ron Paul has been 
running for President on 
the Libertarian ticket 
since February 1987. The 
Pittsburgh native left the 
Republican Party after 
four terms in Congress.
He pledges to establish a 
gold standard, abolish in
come taxes, legalize drugs, 
and return to an isolation
ist foreign policy.
Judith A. Resnik
The Dedication of the 
Judith A. Resnik 
Memorial Sculpture
The campus community is welcome
Tuesday, April 19 
4:30 p.m. 
Wean Hall Patio
lived as she died: 
reaching for the sky

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage 5
Libertarian candidate campaigns on campus
continued from page 4
Seniors to decide 
on class gift
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Contributing Editor
In an effort to drum up support for the senior 
class gift, a senior happy hour/idea session 
was held in Scotland Yard last week. Spon
sored by the Senior Class Gift Committee and 
Annual Giving, the Happy Hour was designed 
to give seniors a chance to submit ideas for the 
class gift.
From the initial response of committee chair
man Tim Danison, the happy hour appears to 
have been a success. We have gotten a wide 
range of good ideas. Everything from outdoor 
lounges to a car rental agency, say Danison. 
The Committee will now take all the sugges
tions proposed and discuss cost and feasibility 
concerns with the architect of the University 
Center and administration officials. The alter
natives will then be narrowed down to a small 
list.
The presence of the administration in the 
decision process is for feasibility concerns 
only; the gift is for students and by students, 
stresses Danison.
The final decision on the gift will be made at 
the Zero-Year Reunion in May. Every Senior 
in attendance will have a chance to vote. By 
process of elimination, the final choice will be 
decided. We chose the Reunion because it is 
the best way to get a large portion of the senior 
class involved in the final decision, says 
Danison.
The funding for the class gift, estimated to 
cost $100,000, will come over a five-year 
period of fund raising, as opposed to the previ
ously unsuccessful method of asking for dona
tions before graduation. Director of the Class 
Gift Fund Raising efforts for the Class of 1987, 
Allison Corbett, attests to the success of a 
spread-out approach, When we asked last 
years seniors for money before graduation we 
got about $ 1800; since we have been calling 
them on the phone a year after graduation we 
have received $12,550. The success rate of 
the campaign is a phenomenal 79.4 percent of 
the class of 87 contributing. Mrs. Corbett 
foresees a similarly successful campaign with 
this years graduating class.
Tinsley named 
head of E&S
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Staffwriter
On Friday, April 15, Lynn Tinsley was 
named Head of the Engineering and Science 
(E&S) Library at Carnegie Mellon. The posi
tion opened on November 1 when Patricia 
Fitzgerald left it to become Assistant Director 
of Public Services.
When the position opened in November, the 
University advertised publicly in an effort to 
fill it. After the search, an applicant was cho
sen and offered the position, but he decided not 
to accept it for undisclosed reasons.
Tinsley did not apply for the position when it 
first opened up. When the University started 
its second search to fill the position, Tinsley 
applied and was eventually offered the post.
Tinsley has worked closely with Fitzgerald, 
who has been Acting Head since she vacated 
the position in November.
Before taking the position as the Head of The 
E&S Library, Tinsley worked under Fitzger
ald as Computer Science Librarian.
A graduate of the University of Michigan 
with a Masters in Library Science, Tinsley 
came to Carnegie Mellon in August 1985. 
graduating, she served as the Engineering and 
Transportation Librarian at the University of 
Michigan.
Tinsley is looking forward to filling the two 
positions that have recently been vacated: 
Computer Science Librarian and Science In
formation Specialist.
decriminalize drugs which would sanitize IV 
drug use and in turn stop the spread of AIDS. 
Along with AIDS, decriminalization would 
stop the pusher system, slow drug use, and end 
drug-related violent crime.
While supporting higher education and fi
nancial aid, Paul foresees it drastically restruc
tured under his system. Everyone who wants 
higher education should be able to get it. But if
Group protests
continued from page 3
slide show, presented by the three speakers of 
the U.S. delegation, re-emphasized the ideas 
that were brought out at the press conference.
The CMU slide show was organized by a 
visiting Drama professor,, Brian Johnston. 
Johnston formed ties with the Palestine Soli
darity Committee after he came to CMU in the 
fall of 1986.
Johnston was contacted by a friend from the 
American University of Beirut about starting a 
local chapter of the Palestine Solidarity Com
mittee. He was referred to Amy Smith, who 
was in charge of organizing the local chapter. 
After speaking to Smith, Johnston decided to
you want an education, you have no right to 
steal from your neighbor or get the govern
ment to do it for you. We believe that higher 
education should be a lot cheaper and all 
financial aid should be voluntary, like a tax 
credit or tax voucher. For example, if you 
spent $5,000 on school, then you would get 
$5,000 off of your taxes. Financial aid would 
be much more direct that way, stated Paul.
Though Paul admits he does not have a realhelp organize the local chapter.
In reference to the situation in Israel, 
Johnston called it murder in slow motion. He 
felt that since the deaths are occurring a couple 
at a time the American public will become 
used to it and, therefore, do nothing to change 
the situation.
When questioned as to why the slide show 
was held at CMU, Johnston stated that it was 
to inform the public about what is happening in 
Israel before the Saltsburg demonstration. 
Johnston stated that a slide show was held at 
the University of Pittsburgh the week prior to 
the one at CMU.
Johnston attacked both the American press
istic chance of being elected, he said that he is 
campaigning to make people aware of the 
Libertarian Party and the Libertarian platform.
Pauls name will appear on ballots in all 50 
states November 6. Since the formation of the 
Libertarian party in 1971, it has become the 
fastest growing party in the U.S. with over 
200,000 registered members, and its 1980 
Presidential candidate, Ed Clark, received 
almost one million votes.
and Israel by saying, Over here what one is 
attacking is not so much Israel, which needs to 
be attacked because its policies are racist and 
very disgusting, but what we are really attack
ing is the cowardice of the American intellec
tuals  the cowardice of the American press, 
including The Tartan I would say  the 
cowardice of the media in not daring to take 
this issue honestly.
Johnston first came to CMU for one semes
ter in the fall of 1985 from American Univer
sity of Beirut, where he taught various sub
jects. He returned to CMU in the fall of 1986 
because he felt that the situation there was too 
dangerous.
^No matter how 
bad they are, 
Grandma loves 
to hear the 
latest jokes.95
You miss her sparkling 
sense of humor. She misses 
you and your jokes. Even the 
had ones. Thats one g(xxl 
reason to call long distance. 
AT&T Long Distance Service 
is another g(xxl reason. Be
cause it costs less than you 
think to hear your grand 
mother start to giggle be 
fore you even get to the 
punch line.
So whenever you miss 
her laughter, bring a smile 
to her face with AT&T Reach 
out and touch someone
If youd like to know more 
about AT&T products and 
serv ices, like the AT&T Card, 
call us at 1 800 222-0300.
AT&T
The right choice.
use of tear gas on Palestinians

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Working together, 
we get things done?
Three weeks ago, Student Senate tabled a resolution made by 
Rules Committee Chairman Allen Greenberg that would have 
allowed dorm storming by any student organization three 
days a week throughout the entire semester, except during 
finals.
Senates discussion and subsequent tabling of the resolution 
illustrates some basic problems with Senate and its relationship 
with both students in general and student organizations in par
ticular.
Under Greenbergs resolution, the Housing Office would be 
required to issue two-week, renewable permits, free of charge, 
to any organization for any reason as long as it was non
commercial.
Greenberg argued that his policy would permit the free flow 
of ideas  the purpose of a university  and would be more 
consistent than the current policy, where only the fraternities 
and sororities can dorm storm during their rush.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) Housing Committee 
Chairman Peter Tilem, a member of the audience, and the 
majority of Senate felt that most students did not want the 
policy. They argued that dorm stormers were bothersome to 
residents and, given the limited Greek rush period, Greeks 
should be the only organization allowed to dorm storm.
In addition, Tilem argued that dorm storming fell under 
SDCs jurisdiction, and he was convinced that without SDCs 
support Senates resolution would be ignored.
He was right. Once again, the Rules Committee did not do its 
homework.
Before introducing a resolution telling SDC to change its 
policy, Senates Rules Committee should have worked with 
SDC to reach a compromise that would be agreeable to both 
organizations.
Unfortunately, though, this problem is more prevalent than 
just the Rules Committee; at the last meeting, Senate argued for 
15 minutes whether they were a representative democracy or a 
true democracy.
And thats a problem. With Senators believing that their 
opinions are their constituents opinions, we can only be given 
more personal, unfounded crusades. Senate should respond to 
students needs rather than undertaking personal issues. Did 
any organization ask for an open dorm storming policy or did 
the Rules Committee decide to fix something that wasnt 
broken?
The dorm storming resolution is an example of this problem: 
Senate does not communicate with its constituents, nor does it 
work with other student organizations. Greenberg should never 
have brought his resolution out of committee until he had 
hammered out a policy that was acceptable to dormitory resi
dents.
When an issue is discussed and then tabled, students develop 
a notion that Senate is weak, leaderless, and ineffective  and 
thats too bad.
The problem is not that Senate does not get anything done; the 
problem is that Senate does not seem to get the right things 
done.
This happened last week when Mark Steppel, a member of the 
Academic Affairs Committee, brought up a proposal to elimi
nate 7:30 am exams, which was tabled after approximately 10 
minutes of discussion and before Senate could come to a 
coherent stance on the issue.
While free speech and divestment resolutions are important, 
they dont affect students every day, whereas resolutions on 
dorm storming and 7:30 am exams, which would affect almost 
everyone, are tabled indefinitely instead of being discussed and 
taken care of.
Take those resolutions off the table, work with SDC on the 
dorm storming policy, work with the administration on abolish
ing the 7:30 am exams, and pass some concrete, strong resolu
tions.
After 4^^I Senates slogan is Working together, we get things 
done.
Letters:
88 Carnival poster an expensive 
failure, in graphic designers eyes
Editor:
We, as graphic design seniors, are 
offended and insulted by this years 
Spring Carnival Poster and Sched
ule of Events. We find the poster 
aesthetically objectionable because 
its concept is banal, its composition 
is clumsy, and the illustration looks 
like a bad high school drawing. The 
extravagant printing process (5 col
ors, foil stamping, and textured pa
per) is an expensive waste. Even a 
corporation with a lot of money 
would not throw away their funds on 
a poster of this nature. The poster 
fails functionally: it doesnt even 
include the dates of Carnival. Not 
everyone outside the CMU commuCliffe cant
Editor:
If writers of letters to the editor got 
to write their own titles to their let
ters I would title this letter Why 
Cliffe Is an Idiot. But since they 
dont Ill have to content myself with 
explaining why Cliffe is an idiot. 
You remember Cliffe, the guy who 
stood on the Cut trying to prove the 
existence of God (oh, excuse me I 
meant give evidence for the exis
tence of God  which, if you think 
about it, amounts to pretty much the 
same thing) and who made state
ments like, The evidence of human 
experience is that atheism is bogus, 
which is a fairly big statement when 
you have nothing to back it up. But 
what he really seemed to get a kick 
out of was telling people that, the 
existing evidence is that God ex
ists. Now what, you may ask, is this 
marvelous evidence that has eluded 
philosophers throughout the ages? 
And get ready for this...its the Bible 
no it isnt a misprint, he really said 
the Bible. Now you might next ask, 
how come no one ever thought of 
this before? Well the reason is, the 
Bible /evidence of the existence
nity, let alone inside, knows when 
Carnival is; they need to be told. Not 
everyone will go to Skibo to pick up 
a Schedule of Events; wouldnt it 
have been nice if the poster included 
that information?
Our question to the Carnival 
Committee is this: Why wasnt a 
graphic design major asked to de
sign the poster? As a matter of prin
ciple, we are concerned that some
one lacking extensive knowledge of 
graphic design was given control 
over its design. It is depressing that 
CMU has such a wealth of talent 
training to be professionals in their 
fields and that talent is not put to use 
on our campus. One of the benefits
of God. Or rather, I should say, the 
Bible isnt evidence of the existence 
of God.
Let me hurry up and get to my rea
soning, because if you are a reli
gious person, you are probably 
quite angry with me right now. 
Okay...the first question that must 
be asked is, what does the Bible give 
as evidence for the existence of 
God, and the answer is, of course, 
the miracles. But (and pay attention, 
because this is why Cliffe is an
of going to a multi-disciplined 
school is that we have a wide range 
of contributions to give to each 
other. We want it known to the 
campus community that we graphic 
design majors have talent and excel- ^ 
lent services to provide. We have the 
skill and desire to make exciting, so
phisticated posters that function 
well and make good use of printing 
budgets. Lets not allow what oc
curred this year to occur again next 
year. Our resources are rich. Lets 
make use of them!
Kadie Casey &
Rebecca S. Neimark 
Seniors, Design
idiot) what if I told you that  be
side the question of whether or not 
the people who wrote the Bible can 
be trusted  miracles can not be 
used as evidence for the existence of 
God because there is no evidence for 
the existence of miracles. And 
heres my reasoning:
The definition of a miracle is that it 
is a remarkable event caused by a 
supernatural agency (a.k.a. God) ^ 
continued on page 9
DU thanks friends for help
Editor:
The lead article of the April 24, 
1973 Tartan was DU to Survive, 
But With Changes. Despite major 
membership and morale problems, 
and a possibility of closing, a small 
number of brothers had decided that 
the oldest fraternity on campus 
could not be allowed to just disap
pear. The article concluded, 
whether [their effortsJ can succeed 
is something only time will tell.
DU has survived, and has changed. 
Its success has surpassed our wildest
dreams.
On this, the fifteenth anniversary 
of that article and the seventieth an
niversary of the Carnegie Chapter, I 
should like to take the opportunity to ^ 
thank Deans Swank and Cox, Presi
dent Cyert, and our other friends and 
DU alumni who contributed their 
help and efforts toward rebuilding 
the Fraternity. Without their help, 
we could not have succeeded.
Jonathon Domash
AMS 76, IA 77 ~
prove that God exists

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage 7
Art says: No smoking
By ART BUCHWALD
The firing squad from Rikers Island 
marched out on the parade ground. Six sol
diers, led by Captain Loughboro, lined up at at
tention, facing the wooden post.
Two soldiers, one 
on each side, 
marched Tony the 
Termite to the post 
and tied his hands be
hind his back. Cap
tain Loughboro 
stepped forward with 
a blindfold and tied it 
( around Tonys eyes.
Would you care for 
a cigarette? the cap
tain asked.
Yes, I would,
Tony said. Ill take a 
king, mentholated.
The captain drew 
one out of a pack and 
t* placed it in Tonys 
mouth. He was about
to light it when a uniformed inspector from the 
citys Anti-Smoking Unit ran on the parade 
ground and cried, Halt! You cannot smoke on 
this property during a firing squad execution. 
Thats ridiculous, the captain said. Puff
ing a last cigarette before being shot is an 
ancient military tradition.
{ Never mind tradition. No one is permitted to 
blow smoke within 10 feet of another person as 
its hazardous to everyones health. Tony isnt 
just doing harm to himself but to the firing 
squad as well.
Suppose I move the squad 10 feet back? 
the captain suggested.
That still would be considered secondhand 
smoke. Dont you have any respect for human 
^ life at all?
The captain turned to Tony, Would it bother 
you to give up your last cigarette?
It certainly would. This is a free country and 
when it comes to puffing, I know my rights. 
The captain rifled through a book. Hes 
right, he said to the inspector. It says here no 
one can be shot unless he is offered a last 
cigarette of his choice.
But were only doing this for his health. If 
Tony sucks on that fag hes going to develop 
a terrible cough.
Ill worry about that, Tony protested. Its 
too late to quit smoking. I should have done it 
years ago when it had 
some meaning. Now, 
lets knock off the 
sweet talk and give 
me a light.
The inspector said, 
Thats the trouble 
with people who face 
capital punishment. 
They think of nobody 
but themselves. We 
are never going to 
have clean air if 
smokers ignore the 
rights of others. Well, 
Im warning you. If 
the captain lights up 
your cigarette Im 
going to arrest you 
for violating the law 
and its going to cost you.
Tony asked, What will I get?
Thirty days and a $50 fine.
Ill take it. Thats better than what they are 
going to give me now, Tony declared.
The captain barked at the inspector, I wont 
hear of it. This man has been sentenced to die 
by the firing squad and you are interfering in 
the outcome. Get out of here.
Im giving you notice, the inspector ad
monished, that you can be locked up for 
aiding and abetting a smoker, which is a capi
tal crime. I suggest you dispense with the 
cigarette and get on with the execution. 
Tony said, I protest. There is nothing to 
prove that smoking is hazardous to your 
health. I will fight to my dying breath to enjoy 
my last cigarette because I have only one puff 
to give for my country. I say, Give me liberty 
or give me a Marlboro.
The captain said to the inspector, Now 
youve done it. Were not going to be able to 
shoot him until he goes to Smoke Enders. 
Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist with 
the Los Angeles Times.
Conservative Corner:
Higher minimum wage leads to 
fewer workers at McDonalds
By THOMAS A. HEIM
As the federal legislature toys with the 
idea of raising the minimum wage, a close 
look is deserved in light of serious effects 
further government intervention in the 
employment marketplace may have. At 
first glance, as a 
prospective em
ployee, one would 
gladly accept 
higher pay than the 
current minimum wage. Many Democrats 
in the Congress, led by Senator Kennedy, 
have pushed legislation to loft the mini
mum wage to nearly $5.00 an hour, up from 
$3.35. These individuals cite the need for 
the poor to have a livable wage from a forty 
hour work week, a decent wage. The 
truth, which will be borne out if this legis
lation is enacted, is that the poor and entrylevel low-skilled teenage workers will, as a 
whole, be negatively effected.
At a small model fast food restaurant, an 
employer may have $26 an hour to spend on 
labor. At $3.35 an hour, he can afford 8 
workers. At $5.00 an hour, he can afford 
only 5. At this point, he is getting less work 
for an equal amount of pay. Making up the 
difference in labor will force him to raise 
his labor outlay by nearly 50%, and $40.00 
an hour in labor may make the business un
profitable. One alternative chosen in these 
situations is automation. An initial outlay 
of several hundred dollars, for an automatic 
milk shake machine, will save him several 
minutes of labor on each milk shake or
dered, and over time, the machine will pay 
for itself. Not only will an increase in wages 
cause this man to lay off three workers to 
keep his business profitable, but he may 
choose to lay off one additional worker, and 
use the money saved to buy automated 
machinery, which is the profitable alterna
tive. This lofty increase in the minimum 
wage has laid off half the workers, and the 
total going out to the minimum wage labor
force is actually less, $20 an hour instead of 
$26.
Raising the minimum wage causes unem
ployment among those who need it most, 
the low-skilled, inexperienced workers. 
Right now today, McDonalds across the 
country routinely hire entry-level burger 
fryers for up to $4.50 an hour, way over the 
minimum wage. The unemployment rate in 
our nation, at a ten year low, is making the 
demand for labor increase wages automati
cally. Not all low-skill industries are the 
same as fast-food, and some would be 
adversely hurt by an increase in the mini
mum wage, and this is where unemploy
ment would get its roots.
Legislators like Kennedy don't actually 
care about the poor or young in the work 
force; if they did, they would work to see 
the minimum wage stayed or lowered so 
everyone gets a chance to get valuable ex
perience and work up, in whatever indus
try. What Kennedy really cares about is en
dorsements from big labor, whose union
ized force benefits from raised minimum 
wages. Labor members make many times 
the minimum wage already, but it is the 
negotiating power with management that 
helps. Your temporary workers get $5.00 
an hour, and we only get three times that. 
We used to get four and five times that, 
doesnt a man with 20 years with the firm 
deserve respectful, decent wages? and so 
forth.
People have accused Reagan of being 
indifferent to the plight of the poor, and yet 
it is clear that this so-called indifference is 
better than vote-hungry Democrats pander
ing to Big Labor, directly hurting the young 
and poor, professing to help them. Under 
Reaganomics, which had tended more than 
anything to remove government from the 
marketplace, our picture has improved tre
mendously, and it shall continue to im
prove as long as the Democrats stay out of 
the White House.
Herblocks Gallery
NSD EFAATURF.ETPagF PUFF-C06H- Pe1 S0DD OD6a c6FoT aEnntni E6udpA
3 L
3A6o e6pN U6e1DSUPNnV 1D6N IH P MOKE- NEPrTA:DDTDnr.NE AnPNFon IH Pe P11PonrNDc F0REK5H LA6UAGE-"
3SA S 16E8N GET NEn 26O PN earPD1p S8DD Noc A6o RrA 6A NEnpn PN ennpdp 2FpNSUn 1n1PoNenEN3
~rf-;-r: T~TI C < 7T
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief.............................Karl Barnhart
Managing Editor..........................Erika Peterson
Business Manager........................Russ Seligman
News Editor...........................Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor............Carlos H. Franco
Features Editors......................Judy Haraburda
Howdy Pierce
Sports Editor......................................Josh Ruben
Assistant Sports Editor.........Natalie Hawryluk
Diversions Editor............................Michael Rose
Photo Assignment Editor.............Andy Gillespie
Photo Darkroom Editor..........Albrecht Powell
Art Editor..............................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor........................Michele Osherow
Advertising Manager..............Dustin L. Frazier
Copy Editor.................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors.............................................
Bruce Kasrel Neil Greenblum
Drue Miller Mark Benish
John Friedmann Stewart Levine
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university 
community. It is pnnted by Typecraft Press. Inc Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually 
members of the University community A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan re
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright 
 1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
+ GEORGE GEE
SPRING FLING 88
N,%hbuy JL y4^b LJv
pCJLyJ!bM ls ufb Empp pPU 4LM ufb 6dd,%b Jd ufb Gb4L

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage 9
continued from page 7 
Then, the only difference between a remark
able event and a miracle is "that a miracle is 
caused by God 
So, to prove a remarkable event is a miracle 
C * it must be proven that God was the cause of the 
event
And, to prove that God caused anything it 
must first be proven that God exists 
Therefore, a miracle cannot be used as evi
dence that God exists 
Since it must first be known that God exists 
before it can be known that miracles exist 
But wait, you say, What if it were known 
C that the event in question was impossible with
out the intervention of God? Good question, 
I answer, except:
The only way this would be known would be 
if it had been established that the event was a 
controvation of the natural laws of the uni
verse
However, our knowledge of the natural laws 
of the universe is based entirely on observation 
f Thus, the only evidence we have that an 
event is a controvation of those laws is that to 
our knowledge it has never occurred 
(it is at this point that some people have an 
objection of some kind. The conversation 
usually goes something like this;
There are some things that we know are 
impossible.
And how is that? I ask.
 Physics. Comes the usual answer (it is 
rarely concise, but that is what it really boils 
down to).
And what, I ask (Trying very hard not to be 
smug), is physics based on?
If they are smart they give up here before they 
are forced to say that physics is based on the
real world. Thereby letting me mention that it 
is more accurate to say that it is based on our 
observations of the real world. Making all our 
knowledge based on observation).
Therefore, if an event occurs there is no 
longer any evidence that the event is a con
trovation of the natural laws of the universe 
So then there would be no evidence that the 
event would be impossible without the inter
vention of God 
Thus, there would be no evidence that the 
event is a miracle and not merely a remarkable 
event.
End of proof.
Now the only objection left is acutally quite 
personal, If YOU saw with YOUR very own 
eyes Jesus walking on the water would YOU 
believe in God? And my answer would be 
yes. But that yes would not be based on 
evidence or logic because there will always 
be a more possible, mundane, and boring 
answer for any question other than the exis
tence of God. My belief would be based on my 
emotional willingness to believe, my faith. 
And that, boys and girls, is why Cliffe is an 
idiot. He is trying to use evidence and logic on 
something that has nothing to do with evi
dence and logic, he is trying to make science
and religion fit together and in the process 
warps them both beyond recognition.
Logically yours,
Richard Stansbury Zahn Jr.
CFA
P.S. Cliffe does have other arguments but 
most of them run something like this: if God 
doesnt exist, there would be no objective mo
rality, so there would be no good or evil, and 
you wouldnt like that, therefore God must 
exist. And I really didnt feel like wasting my 
time addressing something so silly.
Inquiring Minds:Carnegie Mellons Winter Carnival: Flurry Tales
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Once upon a time in the mythical land of 
Carnegie Mellon, there was a weekend in 
which everyone was allowed by the Great 
Emperor Dick to have a good time. The 
people of this fair land had trouble with this 
idea, Fun? they 
asked, Whats that? 
Fun is almost as 
good a thing as re
search, replied the 
Emperor. Fun is um, urn...talk to my loyal 
lackey Brad about fun. Hes an expert on it. 
The students then went downstairs to see the 
sycophant Brad. He said, Fun makes for a 
high quality of life. What well have is a time 
where you can build booths and race buggies 
and drink a lot when its all done.
Oh, so its really more work disguised as a 
thing called fun. That we can deal with, 
answered the students and off they went to
999
dream of push bars and 16 year-olds wearing 
lots of mascara.
It had been a hard year for Carnegie Mellon. 
The emperor had only been able to increase 
taxes 7.5% and students were getting over six 
hours of sleep a week.
Hence, when High Priest Richard Caliguiri 
demanded the yearly burnt offering, all Em
peror Dick could give was a Dean and a De
partment Head from CFA. Enraged, Caliguiri 
called his wizard, Joe DeNardo, to summon 
storms to punish the school.
But preparations continued unabated for 
Carnival. When it arrived, the people let out a 
great cheer. Hurrah for Dick and Brad! Long 
may the Board of Trustees let them reign! 
Suddenly a messenger arrived. His voice 
tremoring, he declared, Tomorrow the high 
will be in the lower 30s, snow tonight chang
ing to rain later in the say. Saturday, 40% of 
rain, high in the mid to upper 40s. The
Emperor chopped off his head.
What can I do? thought the Emperor. My 
subjects must have their promised Carnival. I 
shall rename the event Flurry Tales: When 
you just cant feel your face!  Brad nodded 
his loyal head in agreement.
The weekend began, and things went wrong. 
Tents and stalls swayed, twisted, and broke, 
while students were cold and miserable.
The first to quit the proceeding was King 
Eider, who simply lay down in disgust. Stalls 
closed one by one as even the high schoolers 
stayed away from the Midway.
Finally, it ended, and the subjects got very 
drunk. The next day the campus awoke, with 
a very large hangover, to sunny skies and 
warm weather. So they all lived happily ever 
after...until classes resumed the next day.
The End.
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine and C. Wil
liams
x2903 Offers Delivery 
In 60 Seconds or Less
Let your telephone bring you the latest 
information on Campus News and Events.
c 4 Letters, cont.
Why one person thinks Cliffe is an idiot: a logical proof
Public Relations new 24-hour phone line 
(x2903) provides up-to-the-minute information 
on campus activities:
 Sports schedules
 Fine Arts plays, art shows
 Lectures and movies
 Campus news and university announcements
Dial 2903 
24 hours a day

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Its the American Way
If theres one thing that every other country in the world 
hates, its Americans. Why? After all, we liberated Paris, 
didnt we? We invented the airplane, didnt we? We gave 
the world Walt Disney, didnt we? Albert Einstein was an 
American, wasnt he? Well, er, no, he wasnt, but... WELL, 
HE MIGHT AS WELL HAVE BEEN; I MEAN, HE 
LIVED HERE A LONG TIME, RIGHT? SO THERE.
And while youre at it, the French may have invented 
croissants, but they dont have Croissanwiches, right?
Hell, they dont even have a Burger King. They probably 
have something goony like Le Roi de Burgereaux. You 
know, I really think that RAMBO SHOULD MARCH 
RIGHT INTO PARIS AND JUST UNLIBERATE THEM, 
THATS ALL. Teach those frogs to feel superior.
Well, I suppose thats not the answer. What we really 
should do is sit back and take a good look at ourselves. What 
is it that makes Americans unlikeable? How can we improve 
our image?
First of all, I think we Americans should inundate the 
world with even more music from Great Americans Mi
chael Jackson and Tom Jones. That should get us started on 
the right foot. Get that weenie classical nonsense out of 
everyones heads. Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, Brahms... who 
needs em? If we can get everyone tapping their toes to 
Bad, well know were on the right track. Of course, it 
would have to be in English. Everyone should know Eng
lish. Can you imagine Michael Jackson singing, Estoy 
malo, estoy malo..., or Tom Jones seducing women with 
Que tal, gatito?? All countries should be required to teach 
English to all their citizens. I mean, were the Greatest
Power on Earth, right, so should we be expected to learn 
every dinky little language like Farsi or Serbo-Croatian or 
French or German? Besides, all the best literature has been 
written in English, like all of Jim Morrisons lyrics, for 
example.
I guess thats my main point  when the rest of the world 
sees the light, they will learn to like us. Take the British, for 
example. Theyve almost come around. They learned to 
speak English (although they speak it wrong). But theyre 
still stuck on that ridiculous tea time tradition. Come on, 
you British. Macho up. Pop open a cold Bud and shout at 
football games on the tube. Thats how we do it. (Have to 
hand it to the British, though. They do have Samantha Fox. 
Shes almost as good as Vanna White.)
If we want other countries to like us, we will have to 
eradicate this myth of culture in the sense that going to the 
weenie ballet is cultured or listening to a weenie sym
phony is cultured. What makes these things cultured, and 
what makes the kinds of entertainment we Americans like 
(Pro Wrestling and Power Trucks Driving Over Each 
Other) uncultured? Its just that these dam non-Americans 
are stuck in the past is all. We have to bring them up to date 
on whats fun and whats not. It is our moral duty to 
enlighten the world. Culture is nothing but a myth. (I think 
that Hanns Johst put it best when he said, When I hear the 
word culture, I reach for my gun. Even if he did originally 
say it in German.) The more we want other countries to like 
us, the harder well have to work.
Well have to open millions of new McDonalds around 
the world (and at the same time, try to get rid of these 
overpriced places where snooty waiters want nothing more 
than to embarrass yougive me a Big Mac over snails any 
day). We have to aim for the goal of three color televisions 
in every house in the world, all of them tuned to The 
People's Court, Wheel of Fortune or The Cosby Show.
And for Gods sake, lets get some catch phrases into these 
foreign countries. Theyd probably go crazy for Wheres 
the beef? or Im not Herb. I admit this plan would proba
bly take a very long time, but then so did the development 
of our own wonderful society. However, you must agree 
that this is the only way to go. To make them like us, we have 
to make them become like us. We must Americanize the 
world to eliminate any social diversity; that way, we can all 
understand each other once and for all.
Its the American way.
mazes are childs play...
Protestors arrested
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
These days not many people say things like Friday when we 
get arrested. Civil disobedience has gone out of fashion, 
except for a few like Vincent Eirene and Kevin Forsythe. 
Eirene and Forsythe spent four days by the clock in front of 
Doherty before marching to the Software Engineering Institute . 
to block morning traffic.
Eirene senses a change in the air saying, I think that whats 
coming into fashion is what Id call the new Bohemianism.... 
People hunger for an era they were never a part of.
He is associated with Duncan and Porter Houses, which 
provide hospitality for homeless people.
While sitting at a focus of campus walkways, Eirene was 
concerned that he would become cheap entertainment or the 
son of Cliffe for the passersby that would give him an occa-% 
sional sideglance.
Sitting on a bench facing Doherty, 
Eirene calls Carnegie Mellon stu
dents the first generation to be ca
reer insecure. 
Though he scheduled the vigil to coincide with April 15, the 
day when everyone pays for this insanity, Eirene was not too 
concerned that his protest was overshadowed by Spring Carni
val: I dont want to be some stiff, rigid monk. I just think we 
give people bread and circus as they did in Rome and people 
will forget about the sword factory.... I think people are selfish.
I love carnivals as well as anyone, but I think this aint no 
party. ^
Sitting on a bench facing Doherty, Eirene calls Carnegie 
Mellon students the first generation to be career insecure. 
When asked to suggest a solution to Carnegie Mellons qual
ity of life problems he responded, Theres nothing you can do.
It would be best if you just leave... and learn what it is to love 
and serve people.
When he speaks, Eirene often quotes Jesus, Ghandi, and 
Martin Luther King. Copies of the Bible and a book by King 
were on the bench with him during the vigil.
Eirene has spent ten years in and out of jail for protesting the 
arms race. He has gone to jail for protesting against military 
research at the SEI twice.
continued on page 12
The Childrens School approached the Art Department and asked them to design a 20-foot square maze 
for the children during Carnival. Jim Leskos freshman design class designed several mazes and built 
models. Directors of the school selected a design and students, under project director freshman Kevin 
Wick, constructed the maze by the tennis courts outside Margaret Morrison. Here children enjoy the 
maze on Saturday afternoon.
photos by Judy Haraburda

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage 11
Tartan interviews demonstrators
in ....miiiTi
photo by Jonathan Levy
Protesters Vincent Eirene and Kevin Forsythe knelt in front of the SEI garage entrance 
to block the cars attempting to enter. They were both arrested.
continued from page 10
Protesting since 1968, he has demonstrated 
at the White House and Pentagon. He has also 
spent three years protesting against Rockwell 
International, a defense contractor based in 
Pittsburgh. He was jailed for criminal trespass 
in 1981 and 1986 during protests at a nuclear 
weapons factory in Texas.
Early this year he spoke on campus about his 
experiences with civil disobedience and jail.
* His speech primarily attracted the campus 
media and people from outside the CMU 
community.
When asked what he would like to see the 
SEI become, Eirene replied I dont know 
what to do with a $28 million building.... I 
think that its a fallacy that if you have a
criticism of a problem that you have to come 
up with a solution. This is not about jobs. This 
is about the business of killing. I think the best 
thing for individuals to do is to realize the im
morality of working there and to try a way of 
life that reflects a love of God and Gods 
creation.
Eirene does not think that our society can be 
changed by people working on the inside. 
Person for person everyone I have worked 
with in the 60s and 70s has gone on to make 
their primary focus themselves and their fami
lies, spending between $50,000 and $100,000 
on themselves.... I dont think theres a hunger 
to change the system like there was in the 60s. 
I think people want to make more money than 
their parents.
Specs advises female jocks
Dear Specs,
Is it okay to grill your boyfriend about his 
past romances?
The Dirt
Dear Dirt,
I would grill with a marinade and keep his 
sordid past in the freezer. Talking about 
other chicks will only make your conversaAsk Specs
By SARA FLYNN
tions messy and tense. You will be scalded 
if he says he likes some old flame more than 
you. Let him decide what he wants to put on 
the table for discussion.
Specs
Dear Specs,
I got totally baked last weekend and said 
stuff I regret. Is there a good way to reneg 
on the promises I made without looking 
like a dweeb?
A Way Out
Dear No Way Out,
Not having spent much time lounging on 
surfboards in California bastardizing the 
English language, I find it difficult to un
derstand your problem. Apparently, you 
endured a phenomenal personality trans
formation, after spending too much time in 
the sun and ranted deliriously.
As you try to wriggle out of accepting re
sponsibility for your actions, you became a
member of the Great D. R. Club. Built on 
a foundation of fabulous egos, and con
stant denials, all the members refuse to 
humble themselves or ever admit error. 
Named after Dan Rather, it is an associa
tion for the production of arrogance. Each 
member has marched off the set at some 
point and proceeded to ignore his/her du
ties. They lust for the day they can humili
ate an authority figure. Hours are spent in 
front of the mirror diligently practicing 
how to say WIMP with vigor. Wimp! 
they snarl as they lounge about. Many 
famous Americans glorify the hallowed 
halls.
Unless you mend your ways this will be 
your purgatorio. The surf is up to you.
Specs
Specs,
I dont want to look like a guy just be
cause Im being athletic. Is there a way to 
appear feminine while doing sports like 
running, pushing buggy, etc.?
Female Jock
Dear Jock,
Not unless you bum your undergarments, 
dear. Sweating, lifting weights, and gallavanting about like Atlas does not bring 
your delicate side to the public eye. Be 
proud of the fact that you are one with 
Rarribo. Get some guns, knives, machetes, 
trains or snakes to accessorize your look. 
Phallic symbols are not only tres chic 
they can also substitute for things you 
might be missing. A sawed off shotgun 
compliments most athletic attire, and can 
double as a purse.
Specs
Mark Mittelhauser 
Jeff Rosenblum 
Ethan Evans 
Barry Brumitt 
Michael Barros 
Carlos Franco 
Frank DeVito 
Michael Herron
Lisa Christina 
Glenn Kornbrek 
Chris Neighbor 
Roy Conrad 
Eva Lingle 
Ingrid Brombers 
Marie Cole 
David J. Kyle
Andy Robitshek
Congratulations 
on your election 
or re-election!
Good luck, and may your 
goals become reality!
Were looking forward to 
next semester.
Make yourselves known to 
your consituents!
CC
H


H
%
H
H?H
H
Theyre Heeere!
HteYto 
!
Suggestion boxes have invaded and they are eagerly awaiting yourinput!
Next semesters Student 
Senate wants your 
comments and 
suggestions to kick 
off a great new year.
Look for them in Skibo and the Libraries

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanApril 19,1988
C oming Next We o k :
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Docu
mentation presents its 6th Interna
tional Exhibition of Botanical Art and 
Illustration, featuring works by 93 
international artists, April 8-July 31 on 
the 5th Floor of the Hunt Library. 
Perspectives from Pennsylvania, 
CMU Art Gallerys annual exhibition 
of works by artists living in the state, 
runs April 24-May 22. The Gallery is at 
407 South Craig Street in Oakland. 
Laurel Highlands Regional Theatre, 
91 McCandless Avenue, Lawrenceville, will present Howard Moss The 
Palace at 4 am. April 21 - May 15. For 
reservations call 781-9198.
Tuesday, April 19
The Society for Art in Crafts will hold 
the second part of a three part seminar, 
The Art of Self Promotion: Basic 
Business Principles for Artists. The 
second part is entitled Perspectives 
from Artists, featuring area artists, a 
designer, and a photographer discuss
ing their approach to business problems
Manchester Craftsmans Guild from
for students and $5.00 for others. Reg
ister by calling 261-7003.
Cappy & Co. presents Screenprint 88, 
a show featuring educational seminars 
and trade show exhibits with the latest 
developments in screen printing. The
Motor Lodge, Monroeville. For more 
information, call 281-2133.
The exhibition Viollet-le-Duc: Archi
tect, Artist, Master of Historic Preser
vation opens at the Frick Art Museum in 
Point Breeze. Hie exhibition features 
109 large scale drawings and watercolors on loan from the Centre de Recherches sur les Monuments Historique of 
the French Ministry of Culture. Free of 
charge. For more information, call 
371-0600.
Thursday, April 21
Book lovers will have an opportunity 
to rub shoulders with three celebrated 
writers during Meet the Authors, 
from 5 to 8 pm. at Bookworks, Fox 
Chapel Plaza, 1139 Freeport Road. The 
event will feature authors James 
Crumley, Mona Simpson, and Richard 
Ford. Free. For more information call 
Bookworks at 782-6661.
Tuesday, April 26
The Society for Art in Crafts will hold 
the third part of a three part seminar, 
The Art of Self Promotion: Basic 
Business Principles for Artists. The 
second part is entitled Law and Fi
nance, featuring three attorneys and an 
accountant discussing copyright laws, 
liability, ownership and other topics. 
The seminar will be held at The Society 
for Art in Crafts, 2100 Smallman Street, 
Strip District, from 6:00 - 8:00 pm. The 
seminar costs $4.00 for students and 
$5.00 for others. Register by calling the 
Society for Art in Crafts at 261-7003. 
Wednesday, April 27 
The Students for Human Life Club at 
Community College of Allegheny 
County will present their Second, An
nual Help for Pregnant Women Infor
mation Fair in Milton Hall Lobby from 
9:00 am. to 2:30 pm. Free. For more 
information, call Fran Howse at 237- 
2643.
44 Mom says the 
house just isnt the 
same without me, 
even though it s 
a lot cleaner.95
AT&T
The right choice.
Annual food drive begins
PITTSBURGH  The 460 soup kitchens and 
pantries in Southwestern Pennsylvania are 
targeted to receive 1,000,000 cans of food 
collected from area universities, homes, 
schools and corporations during Aprils 
Scouting for Food program.
A Phi O is coordinating canned food collec
tion from students, staff and faculty. Dona
tions will be accepted at the A Phi O office, 
Skibo 54, from April 19-25. All foodstuffs will 
be sent to the Greater Pittsburgh Community 
Food Bank in McKeesport for distribution to 
individual soup kitchens and pantries.
Priority foods include: peanut butter, 
chunky-type soup, canned tuna, canned stews, 
canned meat, baby formula and complete 
packaged meals. Health laws prohibit the dis
tribution of home-canned or packaged foods, 
and food in containers with broken seals.
Scouting for Food is coordinated by the Al
legheny Trails Council, Boy Scouts of Amer
ica, in cooperation with the United Way.
In 1987, over 1,000,000 cans were collected, 
which represent only a 1 -month supply for the 
areas pantries and kitchens.
For more info call A Phi O at x2116.
Just because your Mom is far away, doesnt mean 
you cant be close. You can 
still share the love and laughter on AT&T Long 
Distance Service.It costs less than you think to hear that she likes 
the peace and quiet, but 
she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a call. You can clean your 
room later. Reach out and touch someone
, the Tartan's wei*
Features P> f* aJJ in-def
i 1 Gllplenie rCh Formonthly 'c?? reseat cl 
, 1r at Carnegie W- , w kno*
Feature* J
CITY LIGHTS

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage 13
Buggy: Are we having fun yet?
About a month ago, I was sitting in a meeting 
of one of the organizations I am involved in 
when the president made a terrifying an
nouncement: Its been confirmed, he said 
coolly, and we are pushing a buggy this year.
Several of the other members began ap
plauding and cheering. This was quite embar
rassing considering there were only eight 
people in the room.
I thought (to myself, of course) Why us? 
Why buggy? Why me! I was never a buggy 
fan. Ever since my 
freshman year, when I 
saw the borderline 
violence and utter 
chaos associated with 
sweepstakes, I was 
totally turned off by it 
Also, I could not un
derstand why people 
would invest the time 
(loads and loads of 
time) and effort to an 
event just so that they 
could complain about 
unfair judging and 
accuse one another of cheating. I would rather 
go to a Pirate game or see our own Tartan 
basketball teams play than waste a weekend 
watching sweepstakes.
B ut that was then; now I was in the process of 
being volunteered to help out with Sweep
stakes 88. I figured I would provide moral 
support and, at least, get an interesting story 
out of it. Nothing, however, was to prepare me 
for what was to come.
Ourchairman asked who wanted to push. We 
would be pushing in the Alumni heats with 
another organizations C buggy. All we had 
to do was to supply a push team. Quickly, four
Josh Ruben*sSportspeak
guys put up their hands. Then they looked at 
me. Everyone else had other business to take 
care of and I was the last link in this rusty, but 
enthusiastic chain. I knew what my answer 
was, but I was raised to always be a team 
player, no matter how bad it made my head 
hurt Through tight lips and wide eyes, I said, 
Sure.
What followed were push practices and 
freerolls. While my friends watched Letterman and Taxi, I was out in 40 degree tempera
tures pushing rolling 
torpedoes with small 
women inside up 
and down hills.
I must admit that 
training for buggy is 
fantastic exercise. I 
lost at least 10 
pounds in addition to 
building up upper 
body strength and 
running faster.
I gained a certain 
respect for pushers 
since they must pos
sess both speed and strength, especially on the 
early hills. Anyone who can push themselves 
and condition their bodies for something that 
few people could even attempt, is worthy of 
some credit.
We had a lot of fun thinking up a psyche 
song. I wanted Respect by Aretha Franklin, 
but lost out to Danger Zone from Top Gun. 
The crowning jewel came when I learned that 
I would be pushing Hill #1.1 felt both terror 
and pride. The two combined and I began to 
feel very excited about sweepstakes.
Now I was getting fired up about buggy, 
just like everyone else.
At times, I felt really out of place during the 
practice rolls. I thought that only Greeks or 
people in organizations specifically oriented 
for buggy were the ones who got involved. All 
this changed when I saw some people from the 
Drama department out pushing one night. This 
was interesting due to the misconception that 
dramats are usually considered as being the 
outsiders when it comes to campus activi
ties. This made me feel better because I began 
to see how the event does open itself up to all 
members of the campus community.
Race day finally came. I was no longer recep
tive to just the intensity of competition; I also 
felt the excitement and sense of com munity as
sociated with Carnival and Sweepstakes. I saw 
how alumni enjoyed bringing their children to 
watch buggy and tell their kids how Daddy 
was a better pusher than these boys, years 
ago.
SAE with Limo and PiLam with Miss Bud, 
helped emphasize that the underlying motive 
of buggy is to have fun. This motive, unfortu
nately, is often ignored or pushed aside as frus
tration and resentment sets in over the course 
of the weekend.
On Saturday, the finals were delayed due to 
bad weather and a wet course. In order to pass 
the time, some organizations pushed a car up 
hill one then gave it a drop test Another group 
carried a girl up the hill while one guy ran 
behind pretending to push. Such occurrences 
helped to lift the veil of boredom that had 
descended over the crowd of spectators and 
buggy teams.
However, when I went to tell my group of 
what was happening and suggested we do 
something to try to liven things up a bit, 1 was 
met with a wall of protest.
The wind left my sails and I lost all enthusi
asm. I just wanted to go home. I was not upset 
over the weather and not being able to push, 
one cannot control nature. Instead, I was upset 
with the lack of humor and unity among the 
participants.
I am most disappointed because the first im
pression I received was a lasting impression. 
Even though I tried very hard to open myself 
up to buggy, in hopes the experience would 
change my mind, nothing I saw as a freshman 
had changed.
Even with all of what has happened, I am still 
looking forward to next year. I really do not 
care if I get a chance to push, even though I 
would like to. No, my real hope is that people 
will come down off of their high horses and 
make buggy fun again; fun for everyone. 
Appoint a chairman to regulate the good times 
on race day. If a team is too intense, disqualify 
them...Nah. But it is fun to think about.
Competition is fine and often healthy, but 
Spring Carnival is a time to relax and get away 
from the pressures of school. Instead, buggy 
replaced the strain and tedium of classes.
Political Speakers Forum Board
AB Lectures present:College Republicans
present:
Helen ThomasMichael Jacob
 United Press InternationalPolicy Officer in the Office
Washington Bureau Chiefof the Ambassador-At-Large
Senior Member - Whitefor Counter-Terrorism
House Press CorpsJacob, native Pittsburgher,
Thomas asks President Reagandirects and implements U.S.
the first question at every presscounter-terrorism policy
conference.including research and
development and sharing
Wed. April 20information amongst allies.
3:30 pm - CFA Lawn
(Rain 4 pm - DH 2315)Thu. April 21
\ 1 
Reception will follow5:30 - 7pm Skibo Ballroom

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanApril 19,1988
ESPOSITO HEADS THE PENS
The Pittsburgh Penguins front office 
demoted General Manager Eddie 
Johnson and Vice President Paul 
Martha last week and named former 
Chicago Blackhawk Tony Esposito, to 
director of hockey operations.
Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., son of the 
Penguins owner, Edward DeBartolo 
made the decision following the Pens 
failure to make the 1988 Stanley Cup 
Playoffs despite having one of the best 
records in the NHL and the leagues 
leading scorer, Mario Lemieux.
DeBartolo said, I want to bring [the 
Stanley. Cup] back to Pittsburgh, and I 
wont stand for anything less.
Esposito follows in the footsteps of his 
older brother Phil Esposito, who is the 
New York Rangers GM. This will be 
Tonys first time as manager of a team. 
He has never coached or managed be
fore.
BRAVES BUST LOSING STREAK
The Atlanta Braves started out the 
1988 season with the worst record in the 
league. They lost 8 straight games in a 
row to put them in the cellar of the 
National League West. Even worse, all 
of the losses were at home.
Saturday, Atlanta took another step to 
the NL record of 10 straight opening 
losses when they went to Los Angeles 
and lost to the Dodgers.
On Sunday though, the Braves took the 
Dodgers 3-1 and ended their losing 
streak. At press time, Atlanta is 1 and 9 
and 7 games out of first place.
EDBERG ADVANCES IN JAPAN
Stephan Edberg, currently seeded 
third in the world, won both of his first 
two matches to advance to the semifi
nals of the $752,500 Japan Open in 
Tokyo.
In his first major tournament since 
September, John McEnroe also won his 
first two matches to advance to the quar
terfinals. He will face face Shuzo
Matsuoka.
BOSTON ALL ALONE IN EAST
With only a few weeks left to go in the 
NBA season, the Boston Celtics are the 
only team in the Eastern Conference of 
the Atlantic Division who are going to 
the playoffs. The Celts are 171/2 games 
ahead of second place New York and 
have clinched the division title.
In other pro-basketball news, the top 
three scorers in the league so far are: 
Michael Jordan of Chicago with 2603 
points, Dominique Wilkins of Atlanta 
with 2179, and Larry Bird with 2130.
MARATHON APPROACHES
The Pittsburgh Marathon will take 
place on May 1 and the city has been 
undergoing preparations for weeks. The 
event will serve as an Olympic Mara
thon trial. So far, there are 240 starters 
for the 26.2 mile corse which will wind 
all through the city of Pittsburgh and 
surrounding suburbs.
BALK RULE STILL UNDER FIRE
One sportswriter commented that if 
umpires keep observing the current balk 
rules to the letter, as they have been, 
over 2,000 balks will be called by the 
end of the season. That is over seven 
times the number called last year.
Baseball drops doubleheader
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Baseball Club has not 
won a game since the spring of 1986. The team 
held onto that streak, losing three more games 
this week  a doubleheader to the Division I 
Duquesne Dukes (15-5, 5-2) and a 16-6 
trouncing at the hands of the University of 
Steubenville.
The Tartans played Thursday evening under 
the lights at the University of Steubenville. 
Freshman Chris Rabold started for CMU, 
giving up 3 runs and 4 hits in three innings. He 
was relieved by senior Dan Bly, whose ap
pearance did not phase U of S. The home team 
banged out 13 more runs on 16 hits before the 
last out of the game.
It was a nightmare, said coach Bill Allen.
Carnegie Mellon, on the other hand, had only
6 runs on 6 singles plus a double by sopho
more John Tafe.
Wednesday afternoon, the Dukes of 
Duquesne invaded Mellon Park. In the first 
game, senior pitcher Kevin Murtha had 
trouble finding home plate. He gave up eight 
runs in his five innings of work. Freshman 
Denny Wilke came on in the sixth inning to
finish the game. The Dukes only earned two of 
the seven runs that they scored in the remain
ing two innings.
Offensively, the Tartan leader was junior 
Daryl Marvin, who had a triple, two singles 
and crossed the plate twice. Seniors Pat Carey 
and Leo Cadden contributed two singles and a 
pinch hit single which scored a run, respec
tively.
Duquesnes best pitcher, Ed Rayburg, took 
the mound in the second game for the Dukes. 
Last season, in a 9-0 routing of the Tartans, he 
recorded 21 strike outs. The game was only 
seven innings. This season, things were a little 
different.
He [Rayburg] was a lot better the last time 
we faced him. Even though he struck us all out, 
it gave us a chance to see his pitching. Thats 
what made him easier to hit this time, recalled 
shortstop Bruce Nibbelink.
The Tartans were able to gamer 7 key hits, 
resulting in two runs. A pair of seniors, Paul 
Masalsky and John Reese, each had a single 
and a double.
Carnegie Mellons Cadden turned in a fine 
pitching performance, giving up five runs on 
seven hits in six innings, and striking out four.
Freshman Rick France cleaned up in the sev
enth and final inning of play.
I pitched a lot better than I thought I would. 
I felt good the whole way through, com
mented Cadden.
The club continues its season this week with 
a game at Butler Community College on Sat
urday at 1:0Q pm, and a doubleheader against 
the University of Steubenville on Sunday at 
Mellon Park, starting at 1:00 pm.
The last Sports Staff 
meeting of the year 
will be Wednesday 
at 6:00 pm.
Be there or call to 
recieve your assign
ments. New writers 
are welcome.
How to make a hit
CItW American Exprex Travel Kelalcd Servie Company Inc
The American Express* Card is a hit virtually 
anywhere you shop, from Los Angeles to 
London. Whether youre buying books, baseball 
tickets or brunch. So during college and after, 
its the perfect way to pay for just about 
everything youll want.
How to get 
the Card now.
College is the first 
sign of success. And 
because we believe in your 
potential, weve made it easier for 
students of this school to get the 
American Express Card right 
now-even without a job or a 
credit history. So whether youre an 
underclassman, senior or 
grad student, look into 
our automatic approval 
offers. For details pick up an 
application on campus. Or call 
1-800-THE-CARD and ask for a 
student application. 
The American Express Card. 
Dont Leave School Without It.

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
IM Hockey
All-Star Team
MajorsMinors
John ReesePond ScumJohn KerberPi Lam
Rich GareisPond ScumDave NardozziAFROTC
Tony Abenante Boys of BolongaRich NaveAFROTC
Paul MasalskyBoys of BolognaJohn BlackwoodSig Tau
Rob Schlackman Phi KapJim WhiteMoose Jaw
Dan Freed Mexican EarthquakesStu FoxAEPi
MVPMVP
John ReesePond ScumDave NardozziAFROTC
* IM News
The last IM Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, April 21, at 12 noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
 SPORTS IN SEASON
Darts
Commissioner Bob Moses 683-8409 
Final Match will be played this week.
Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Please play matches as scheduled and report 
cores to Pete.
Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Please report scores to the IM office. Play
offs start this week.
Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436 
^ Please report your scores to Andy. Playoffs 
are listed on the IM Board.
Weight Lifting
Commissioner Keith Gorse x2222 
Please sign up with Mr. Gorse and start 
lifting.
Indoor Soccer 
^(Commissioner A1 Margarella x5516
Playoffs have been posted and play will con
tinue this week and Wednesday and Thursday 
evenings. Teams are reminded to check the 
starting time of all their possible games in the 
playoffs.
Softball
Commissioners 
^Majors Pat Jefferies x4299 
Intermediate Stu Fox x4226 
Minors and Women Stephanie Janczak x4229 
All those teams that have advanced into the 
single-elimination Championship round in 
Minors and Intermediate softball leagues are 
reminded to check with the-Intramural Depart
ment daily for updates or rescheduled games 
due to rainouts. The Majors teams that are still 
participating in the season long double-elimi
nation tournament are reminded to do the 
same. All games must be completed by Sun
day, May 1, 1988. Any questions should be 
directed to the Intramural Office x2214.
Fencing
Commissioner Cyle Sprick x4668 
Matches were held April 11 and 12 in Thistle 
Hall. Champions will be listed in The Tartan 
next week.
SPORTS COMING UP
Triathlon
Commissioner Mrs. Morosky x2075 
Entries are due by Wednesday, April 20th at 
4:30 pm. The triathlon will be held on Satur
day, April 30 at 9:00 am. The entry fee is $5.00 
per person and $ 15.00 per team. Get your team 
in TODAY.
IM Track Meet
Commissioner Mike Gryzwinski 
The meet will be held Thursday, April 21 at 
4:30 pm on the CMU track. All participants 
should report to the track by 4:00. Everyone is 
welcome to attend and to compete.
Frisbee
Commissioner Paul Drake 681-8703 
Please pick up schedules at the IM Office.
THE IM TICKER...
The 1988 Indoor Soccer Minors Champion
ship will be played on Thursday, April 21st at 
7:00 pm. The Intermediate Championship will 
be played on Monday, April 25th at 7:00 pm, 
followed by the Majors Championship at 8:00 
pm.
The 1987-88 Intramural Champions who 
have not have not picked up their awards 
should contact Assistant Intramural Director 
Mike Mastroianni x2214.
photo by John Friedmann 
President Richard Cyert enjoying the Spring on the tennis courts of Carnegie Mellon.
Lacrosse starts Spring 
season with 4-0 tear
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffer iter 
The Men's Lacrosse club boosted its season 
record to 4-2 (4-0 conference) on Friday with 
a 9-8 victory over St. Vincent's at Tech Field.
Weather conditions were not ideal for this 
matchup, but the frigid winds and hail showers 
did little to dampen the spirit of the Tartans.
As of now, were right where 
we want to be, 
 John Seekings
With the home field, they led throughout most 
of the contest.
The Tartans scored five first-half goals to St. 
Vincents two; senior Billy Heiser netted two 
of his three scores in the first half. Roy Teresky 
added two and John Seekings scored one for 
Carnegie Mellon.
But, in the third quarter, five unanswered St. 
Vincent tallies brought them within one, the 
Tartans clinging to an 8-7 lead. St. Vincents 
surge was led by Tom Perrelli, who scored 
three of those five goals. Perrelli scored four 
points total to lead St. Vincents.
Perrellis fourth goal deadlocked the score at 
8-8 late in the fourth quarter, but Heiser was 
not finished. The senior scored unassisted to
put Carnegie Mellon up 9-8, and that onegoal cushion proved to be enough for the 
Tartans.
Overall, I was happy with our perform
ance today, said club captain Mike 
Seekings. Offensively, I think that Billy 
Heiser is probably the best scorer in the 
league. Both our offensive and mid-field 
games were good today and we played 
tough defensively.
It was that type of defensive play and 
several key saves by Tartan goalie Peter 
Vonberlieth that prevented St. Vincent's 
from tying the score and sending the game 
into overtime. The Tartans have shown 
time and again just how strong their de
fense is.
We have, probably, the best defense in 
our division. Seekings said. We've got 
two of the top defenders in the league in 
Fred DeLeon and Hudson Tiffany, both of 
whom played good games today.
The Tartans have been playing well since 
suffering early losses to Frostburg and 
Washington & Jefferson. W&J, who beat 
the Tartans 10-7, possesses one of the best 
teams in Western Pennsylvania, according 
to Seekings.
As of now. were right where we want to 
be, said Seekings. Were 4-0 and in first 
place in our division.
photo by Ian Hall
A Tartan player sets up for a pass last Friday on Tech Field against St. Vincents. 
With this victory, the lacrosse team is 4-2 overall and 4-0 in conference play.
f
1M|
I *s> JL-1I %
rtf
p" 
*
4 #> -vj- -sr-I

---------------------------------------------------

s
The Tartan d ^
PORT
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
N.L. Standings (as of 4/17)
EastWLGBWestWLGB
Pittsburgh63Houston72
Chicago63Los Angeles731
New York63Cincinnati641 1/2
Montreal363San Francisco641 1/2
Philadelphia363San Diego374 1/2
St. Louis363Atlanta196 1/2
Mens Track hands Grove City first loss in three years
By LEN ONEAL
Special to the Tartan
After losing the Presidential Athletic Con
ference title to Grove City College the past two 
years, the Carnegie Mellon Mens Track Team 
appears to have regained their dominance of 
the PAC with a hard fought victory over the 
Wolverines last Wednesday, 76-69.
Having finished runner up to GCC four days 
earlier at the PAC Relay Meet, the Tartans 
were well aware of how they could fare in
one of the sweetest wins 
in my coaching career 
 Coach Gary Meckley
Wednesdays dual meet. According to coach 
Gary Meckley, the Tartans were capable of 
scoring 87 points against the GCC team, far 
more than the 73 points needed to win a dual 
meet. Although the Tartans did not reach their 
coachs prediction, they did win. The score did 
not reveal CMUs dominance of the meet.
Things appeared shaky for the Tartans even 
before they left for the meet. Ace distance man 
Keith Stopen was ill and unable to run. High 
jumper Chris Luckett could not attend the 
meet for academic reasons. The Tartans were 
also giving the Wolverines nine easy points 
because of an ankle injury to their pole vaulter.
The Tartans were nipped in the opening 
400m relay, but they came firing back. Dave 
Supp and Gary Meeker finished first and sec
ond in the 1500m run. Damien McKnight took 
second in the 100m high hurdles, and Jeff 
Kochanowski won the 400m with a time of 
49.9 seconds. Pete Hollingsworth and Jeff 
Luster earned first and third places in the 100 
m dash.
While the Tartan runners were showing 
Grove City their heels, the field men were 
doing some conquering of their own. Jim 
Kelly led the way in the discus and the javelin, 
helping the Tartans sweep both events. Tom 
Dale and Mike Boyle took the top two spots in 
the shot put, and Kochanowski squeezed out a 
third in the high jump, a second in the long
jump and a third in the triple jump.
Back on the track, the Tartans continued to 
rack up the points. Gary Harrison and Len 
ONeal were the first two people across the 
finish line in the 800m run. Hollingsworth 
spotted a second in the 200m dash, and 
McKnight took top honors in the intermediate 
hurdles. Supp returned in the 5000m along 
with Pat Noll to finish first and third, respec
tively, and to sew up the meet for the Tartans.
For the team members, the victory was espe
cially satisfying. It meant even more when 
they learned that it might be Coach Meckleys 
last dual meet. He is planning to step down 
from the position of head coach. Meckley 
thanked the team for making it one of the 
sweetest wins in my coaching career.
As for some of the athletes, they were 
pleased with their performances, but they real
ized that the entire team would have to do its 
part in order to win.
We [ONeal and Harrison] worked together 
in the race and did what we had to, but it was 
more than just one race. It was a solid team 
effort and thats what we needed, said Harri
son.
Looking ahead to the PAC Conference Meet 
at the end of April, the Tartans appear very optomistic. Dave Supp summarized the situ
ation. If we perform as well at the PACs as 
we did today, we should win, especially with 
Stopen healthy.
For now, the Tartans are enjoying their vic
tory. This is Grove Citys first loss since CMU 
edged the Wolverines 73-72 three years ago. 
This weekend, the Tartans travel to Washing
ton University of St. Louis for the University 
Athletic Association Outdoor Champion
ships.
Senior Jeff Luster commented, It feels great 
to bring the winning tradition back where it 
belongs.
In womens track action, the Lady Tartans 
hosted an invitational meet last Thursday 
while holding a dual meet with Robert Morris.
Kristin Bugard from Carnegie Mellon won 
the 1500 meters with a new school record time 
of 5:10.90. This beat the old record of 5:11.62 
set in 1987 by Francesca Crannell.
Leslie Williams had a fine day by winning 
the 100 meter high hurdles with a time of 17.1 
seconds. Teammate, Julia Wright finished 
third in the event in 17.4 seconds.
Another outstanding Lady Tartan runner was 
Sue Johnson who won the 3000 meter run with 
a time of 11:46.2.
Assistant Coach Bruce Gerson commented
on the upcoming UAA Championships this 
weekend, Well see some tougher competi 
tion there. The PAC is made up mostly of 
individuals. The UAA has more depth.
Tartan Sports Editor Josh Ruben contrib
uted to this article.
photo by Josh Ruben
Leslie Williams (right) dashes through the tape to win the 100 meter high hurdles last week in Tech Stadium.
Pirates perched in first place
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor
The First Place Pittsburgh Pirates.
Its almost an oxymoron - like an honest 
politician, or a nutritious Sno-Cone. But last 
Wednesday, by virtue of a 7-0 shutout of the 
listless Philadelphia Phillies combined with a 
loss by the Chicago Cubs, the Bucs were in 
first place, ahead of the pack by a whole half
game.
Even though first place in April is about as 
meaningful as the regular season in the Na
tional Hockey League, this does not detract 
from the significance of the moment. Not 
since September of 1983 had Pittsburgh been 
top dog in the National League East. For those 
of you counting, thats four and one-half years.
After 1983, you remember, it was all down
hill. A fall to last place in 1984 was followed 
by an infusion of veteran hitters in 1985, a cure 
which nearly killed the patient. The first of 
many radical operations came in 1986, but the 
results didnt show quickly enough to prevent 
a third consecutive cellar-dwelling season. 
Only last fall were there signs of life, resulting
in an almost-respectable fourth finish.
So first place, even for a day, awakens longdormant hopes of a complete recovery of fran
chise that was once headed for the morgue.
Jim Gott, who shut the door on a basesloaded rally in the eighth with a strikeout, and 
breezed through the ninth to preserve the win, 
also saw the symbolic importance of being at 
the top of the standings.
This team is young and not as established as 
a lot of other teams are. It is very important for 
us to maintain confidence, as a team and indi
vidually, for us to keep winning.
Other Pirates were not as impressed. Andy 
Van Slyke, who spent considerable time in 
first place as a member of the St. Louis Cardi
nals, said, How does it feel to be in first 
place? Come back and ask me in September. 
There were other positive signs in 
Wednesdays game. Starter Brian Fisher 
hurled a solid seven-plus innings, a solid re
bound from a so-so initial outing versus the 
Cardinals in St. Louis. Also, second baseman 
Jose Lind collected three hits, helping to ease 
fears of a prolonged batting slump from the
slick-fielding second baseman. Still of con
cern, though, is shortstop A1 Pedrique, who 
has yet to find his hitting stroke.
Buc Bites: Saturdays game against the Cubs 
will be NBCs Game of the Week. Although 
the Pirates were not scheduled to appear this 
season, network execs have apparently recon
sidered. Game time has been changed from 
1:35 to 1:50 pm...Lefty Miguel Garcia just 
missed earning a roster spot during spring 
training, but is back with the team due to the 
injury to Mike Dunne. He takes the bullpen 
spot of Vincente Palacios, who is replacing 
Dunne in the rotation. Dunne should return 
this week.
Tennis takes Thiel by storm
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor
The mens tennis team continued their 
win streak on Sunday with a clean sweep 
of Thiel, 9-0. Other than harsh 20 mile 
per hour winds, the team had little that 
challenged them.
The win helped demonstrate the depth 
and overall talent of the team since the
# 1, #2, and #5 players did not compete in 
the match played on Thiels home court.
Most of the matches were relatively 
easy victories, including #3 singles 
player Jay Stevens winning 6-0,6-1.
The only real contest was #1 doubles 
with Stevens paired with #4 Rob Schlackman. The pair won the first set with 
a 7-5 tie breaker. They then swept the 
last two sets 6-2,6-2.
The team had not seen any competition 
since their victory against Duquesne two 
weeks ago since an earlier match against 
Westminster was rained out.

---------------------------------------------------

D
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
IINSIDEI
MUSIC..........................Page D3
Bands you could see at clubs youve proba
bly never even heard of
JOE BOB......................Page D5
Its Oscar Night at the Drive-In... May we 
have the envelope, please?
Spring fever hits CMU
Drama Dept, presents Six Characters
photo courtesy of the Drama Department 
Sara Sankowich and Nicola Stimac appear in a scene from Six Characters.
By ERIKA L. PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor 
Believe me, we really are six most interest
ing characters, sir; side-tracked however.
 Stepdaughter, Six Characters in Search of 
an Author
Luigi Pirandellos classic modem drama Six 
Characters in Search of an Author premieres 
tomorrow night at the Kresge Theatre. The 
show, directed by guest director and alumna 
Rina Yerushalmi, examines the differences 
between art, specifically the theatre, and life. 
^ The show revolves around the tragic story of 
a family and their plea to a theatre company in 
an effort to find a vehicle in which to play 
out the rest of their lives. Their pleas for help 
bring up vital questions about the nature of 
theatre and what should be represented there. 
The characters include an often vicious and 
pathetic family and the skeptical members of 
a theatre company.
^ Yerushalmi, an instructor of acting and 
movement at both the Experimental Theatre 
Wing at New York University and Tel Aviv 
University in Israel, comments about the play: 
Its the struggle of a family to relieve them
selves of the pain of being fixed in an event in 
their lives. They are searching for an author so 
they might be able to add scenes to that event 
to change something about their lives or their 
fixed relationships with each other. 
Commenting on the production, Yerushalmi 
said, The set started from the idea that the 
stage is empty because they [the actors] are 
going to start rehearsal on a new play. All you 
need is a few chairs and a table. Elements are 
added as the play progresses and they [the 
actors] decide to do the show of the family. 
Yerushalmi, who received her masters de
gree in directing from Carnegie Mellon in 
1970, likens her return to CMU to the closing 
of a circle because her first show at CMU was 
another short Pirandello play, The Vine. Its a 
pleasure to come again and have the years of
experience you dont have as a student. She 
also feels that the show, because it examines 
the nature of theatre, is peculiarly appropriate 
for the cast, which includes several seniors, for 
whom this is the last show they will perform in 
here at CMU.
The show runs at 8 pm on April 20-23 and 26- 
30, and at 2 pm on April 23 and 30. Tickets and 
further information are available through the 
CMU box office, located in CFA lobby, 268- 
2407, and open Monday through Friday, noon 
to 5 pm.
Pgh. flips for Chinese Acrobats
theatre
Obits to open
By MICHAEL ROSE
Tartan Diversions Editor 
On April 23 and 24, the Music Dept, will 
sponsor an independent workshop production 
of the new musical Ohits. Written by Jim Olm, 
a graduate student in the Composer/Librettist 
program of the Music Dept., the piece marks a 
departure from the previous method of provid
ing music majors in Voice/Music Theatre the 
opportunity to gain performance experience. 
Olm wrote the book, music and lyrics for 
Ohits as a music theatre thesis which he began 
last year. As he began searching for a possible 
performance arrangement, Joel Thome was in 
the process of leaving his position as head of 
the Music Department. One of Thomes pro
grams that ceased as he left office was the 
Music Theatre Seminar program, an essential 
element in the Music Theatre/Voice curricu
lum. Voice majors who had not taken Opera 
Workshop and needed additional class credit 
were, to an extent, stranded by the loss of the 
MTS program. In order to give those students 
the opportunity to make up the credits and ex
perience needed, the Music Dept, decided to 
sponsor the production of Ohits.
Ohits is described by Mitzi Huff, a junior in 
Music Theatre/Voice, as sort of a Heaven 
Can Wait story. In the first version, everybody 
died  the show took place in heaven... but 
Jim [Olm] revised it and now it takes place in 
the present, 1988 and everybodys alive, on 
Earth.
The plot of Ohits seems to contain a few 
prime comic elements. The main character, 
Henry, played by MT/V junior Chris Quigley, 
is a hardware manager who is killed by a 
falling piano. He is guided through the after
life by an angel named Amanda, played by 
Huff, who also appears in the mortal role of 
Annie, the hardware store assistant. Henry is 
dissatisfied with his achievements and is 
granted a week to return to earth and make 
amends. The play deals with the problems of 
achievement and purpose in life from the per
spective of the afterlife, an approach taken
successfully in other shows.
Ohits is directed by Chris Cummings and 
stars a cast made up completely of Music 
juniors, including a composition major. Cast 
members include Quigley, Huff, Karla Rosen
thal, Mark Edmonds, Beth Welsh, and Scott 
Eggert. The producer of Obits is John Eisenbach, and the Musical Director is Joshua Free
man. The show will be performed on Saturday, 
April 23 at 8 pm and on Sunday, April 24 at 
1:30 pm in the Auditorium of Mellon Institute, 
on Craig and Fifth. Admission is free.
photo courtesty Benedum Center
A precarious pagoda of chairs.
two shows on S unday at 2:00 and 7:00. Tickets 
are $18, $14, and $10 and are available from 
the Benedum box office or at the TIX booth at 
Oliver Plaza downtown. College students can 
purchase half price tickets for both shows at 
the TIX booth two hours before the show if 
they show their student ID.
performed by the acrobats border on the unbe
lievable. As a result, many people think that 
the performances are a result of various exter
nal means like support wires or generous 
applications of glue, instead of the physical 
prowess possessed by the participants.
Che Li, the leading acrobat for this years 
tour, entered the world of acrobatics at the age 
of eight, and has spent his life training himself 
and teaching others. Despite his seemingly 
limiting age, he still performs with both the 
Peking Acrobats and in his own one-man 
show, which regularly tours China. He will be 
bringing his Charlie Chaplin act from his show 
to his performances with the Peking Acrobats.
In addition to the normal show on Sunday, the 
World Emergency Circus will offer a free 
juggling workshop one hour before each of the 
two shows. (The workshop is for paid pa
trons, whatever those are, but if you show up 
with three tennis balls like you're supposed to, 
they just might let you in anyway if you ask 
nicely.)
The Acrobats are scheduled for over a 
hundred shows in the United States, with their 
tour lasting until June. The Benedum will have
* By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Staff writer
Next Sunday, the Benedum Center will fea
ture the world-renowned Peking Acrobats 
with Che Li, a sixty-one-year-old veteran of 
the art form.
Unlike the perception of Westerners, the Chi
nese consider acrobatics to be on the same 
level as dramatics or the like, with a perform ance history of 2,000 years. Often, the feats
photo courtesy Benedum center
Its not as easy as it looks.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanApril 19,1988
Looking back at The Night Stalker...
The best show you never saw
970y NQU^4yy,%ywith
Mark Benish
Run Date: September 13, 1974 to August
30,1975
Network: ABC
Executive Producer: Darren McGavin 
Let me give you a short lesson on what I look 
for when I choose a show to write about. I look 
for shows that embody the Seventies  the 
entire goal of my series  so most of my 
readers think I have to pick popular shows 
because they are the only things that represent 
Seventies ideology. (Don't get me wrong  
Battlestar did represent the Seventies well.) 
However, another as
pect of Seventies' tele
vision that is as impor
tant as the fads it repre
sented is the fact that 
there are a plethora of 
good shows that never 
made it as hits. These are great shows and are 
currently being shown under the disguise of 
such monstrosities as The CBS Late Movie. 
This is a very important part of Seventies 
television  the underground shows. They 
represent the art form as well as the popular 
shows do.
One of the shows that falls in that genre is The 
Night Stalker. The show starred Darren 
McGavin as Carl Kolchak, an investigative 
reporter for the Independent News Service 
(I.N.S.), which ran out of Chicago. The job of 
investigative reporter would lead to enough 
excitement, but a twist was added. All the 
criminals Kolchak would try to find were not 
normal criminals. They werent just wacky 
people; they usually weren't people. They 
ranged from vampires to extra-terrestrials to 
science projects gone awry. You know, the 
sort of thing that normally happens in Chi^\lVampires? Ha!'
.What an idiot!
cago.
The other characters on the show were there 
solely to cause Kolchak grief, either through 
disbelief or not letting him in on information. 
Simon Oakland portrayed Tony Vincenzo, 
Kolchak's boss, who wouldnt believe him if 
he told him his mother died. Jack Grinnage 
played Ron Updike, a fellow reporter of 
Kolchak's who was quite a pompous ass and 
bothered Kolchak with the pettiest problems. 
There was also the police lieutenant (name 
and actor escape me) who would constantly be 
trying to cover up a 
mysterious murder 
and went to the nth 
degree to make sure 
Kolchak didnt get any 
information. With 
people like this to deal 
with, its a wonder Kolchak ever got a story. 
He never did, but thats beside the point.
The show was ordered after two successful 
made-for-TV movies. The first one, called  
guess....yep, youve got it  The Night 
Stalker, aired in March of 1972, and the 
second  guess....nope, wrong this time  
The Night Strangler, ran in January of 1973. 
The novelty of the idea shown in these two 
shows  a fantasy show disguised in what 
looks like a detective show at first glance  
caused ABC bigwigs to order production of 
twenty-one episodes. It seemed like there 
would be twenty-one hundred episodes, but 
there were no more made. Theyre relegated to 
late night TV, where they still enjoy popular
ity.
There were a few things about the show that 
always made me wonder. First of all, why was 
everybody so belligerent toward Kolchak? Its
as though someone put an Abuse Me sign on 
him every morning, and everyone obliged. 
The other thing was, why did I.N.S. keep 
Kolchak on the job? He never ever got a story, 
or at least one that I.N.S. thought believable 
enough to publish. Hey, you think this publica
tion would keep me on staff if I never wrote 
anything? Actually, I think theyd keep me on 
staff just to have me not write anything.
The best aspect of this show, however, was 
the inventiveness of the monsters. Some of the 
better ones were a cell that was frozen for 
millions of years and began to reproduce, a 
monster that dated back to the Hindus that 
appeared to people as the person they trusted 
most, and an invisible force from another 
planet. These supplemented the good old 
monsters such as vampires. The best thing 
about the monsters was that they were por
trayed using early 1970s special effects, mean
ing very cheesy. The effect wouldnt be gotten 
if they used the laser-exploding-marshmallow 
technology of today.
The Night Stalker was on Fridays at 10 on 
ABC during its one-season run, but it has now 
been relegated to that great hall-of-fame of old 
TV classics  The CBS Late Movie. Its 
shown on CBS about once a month. So take a 
break from studying and watch it. And dont 
look for fads just an interesting TV show. 
You can watch Battlestar for the fads.
Next Week:
The last, ever, for all 
time to come,
70s TV Classics
Forbes Gallery this week
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to The Tartan
Exhibiting this week at the Forbes Gal
lery will be artists Carolyn Wilkinson and 
Bridget Hoyle. These seniors are show
ing prints, drawings, and paintings and 
will have a closing on Friday night.
Traditional Subjects Made Modern
Carolyn Wilkinson feels that her work 
this semester has become truer as most of 
her paintings are concerned with animals 
as subject matter, an idea which goes 
back to her childhood. These paintings 
are very honest, she states, its some
thing I really care about and they have to 
do with the beginning of my life. She is 
also interested in the fact that animal 
imagery has been prevalent throughout 
art history, explaining, this is traditional 
subject matter with a modem bent 
While Wilkinsons work has always been 
traditional, it was previously more con
cerned with the figure, portraiture and 
still life. I wanted to break away from 
human representation, she remarks, it 
began to get very restricting. I chose to 
broaden my figurative vocabulary with 
animals. Theyre very popular subject 
matter and always have been. Everyone 
can relate to animals. Since the paintings 
still retain their frontal, portrait-like 
qualities, Wilkinson would like to experi
ment more. Occasionally, there is a hu
man aspect involved, and she sees the 
work moving to a theme more related to 
Continued on page D3
\
Hey StudentsYou can still get 372* copies
Copy Centers
Why^<^into|Oakla<^
WeH 4th Floor (x2970) 
^|ti*UPP Bldg r,;(x3729);glS|j 
' *MIf 4th Floor (x5114) iiliS
Hours  8:30 - 5:00
Resumes
Convenient Locations 
Stationary 
Cover Letters
Double Side Copies 
?Folding 
Multi Color Copies 
?All Types of Stock
High Quality Reproductions 
Fast Service 
Courteous Attendants 
Introductory Student Prices

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage D3
Springtime brings bands to Pittsburgh...
Rockin week at clubs
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Staffwriter
All righty, all you people who are caught up 
from Carnival, or at least arent feeling guilty 
about it anymore, have no fear  theres lots 
of things coming up to waste your time in the 
next week (and all of them should keep you 
awake better than the Alarm did).
Tonight, the Screaming Blue Messiahs will 
be playing at Graffiti, along with drivin n 
cryin. For those of you who havent heard of 
either of these bands, the Messiahs are a 
formerly great (they were great, but the last 
album was kinda weak, so theyve been 
demoted) rock band with a warped sort of 
hillbilly twang to their crunch. Their first 
album, Gun Shy, was a nifty slice of jump-upand-down music, but their latest, Bikini Red, 
took the slight sense of humor present on their 
earlier album and pumped it up until it ex
ploded, splattering everything on the album. 
As a result, stuff like I Wanna Be a 
Flintstone showed up on the album and ru
ined everything. But, they supposedly put on 
a nice loud live show, and their earlier album 
was that good, so check them out regardless. 
As for drivin n cryin, theyre a trio from 
Atlanta; they include the Jam, Flipper, and 
Led Zeppelin as faves, and one of them plays 
a mandolin (occasionally), so how bad could 
they be? The show starts at 8:30; tickets are 
$8.50 in advance (youll have to move fast for 
it to still be in advance) and $ 10.00 at the door.
Tomorrow, when youre really behind on 
your work, the Graffiti will play host to three 
hip and hapnin bands (bit of Silly Record 
Label Jargon there). Thelonius Monster leads 
off the trio with their post-punk vitality of the 
80s (not my phrase  thats more SRLJ 
there) that takes little bits of jazz and acid rock 
and melts them down into a dull sort of music 
a lot like those huge crayons made from lots of 
little crayons  occasionally, a bright color 
shows up, but its mostly drab (now, that 
wasnt a SRLJ, but rather a SMCA, as in a Silly 
Music Critic Analogy). Fortunately, Fishbone 
is next. One of the more loony bands about, 
they boil a potful of horns and guitars and stuff 
over a way high funk beat (yup, another 
SMCA). Tasty stuff, and very very danceable, 
so wear yer sensible shoes. And, last and looni
est, The Red Hot Chili Peppers are headlining 
the whole mess. Now, Ive heard all sorts of 
good things about their live shows, and the 
things all sound like wow, or friggin loud, 
or thank you sir, may I have another, so go 
see them, and if you end up jumping on yer 
head, well, thats your problem, isnt it? Tick
ets are $13.00 in advance and $15.00 at the 
door for people over 21, and nonexistent for 
those folks under 21.
Also on the concert horizon: They Might Be 
Giants at Mirage on Thursday night in an 18 
and over show. These guys are both named 
John, theyre from Brooklyn, and theyre 
funny. Call the club at 281-0349 for details.
Great Expectations  Where precision haircutting is a tradition, 
as well as an art. ..and at 
affordable prices.mm IB WITH THIS COUPON |I save $2.00 on o
I Precision Haircut
 complete with shampoo & blow style
I @CJtAT^MLBO April 30, 1988^____________WfCTT)OnS|
e8e82,I su3TaTs,r rt n
Great Styles Start at...
^inycirNf ci CC8gi MCHPCCTiiTniisPRECISION HAIRCunEPS237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................................................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection........................................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/ drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Ald.................................................... ..................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
Almost pure art show
continued from page D2
relationships between humans and animals 
and what their roles are and are not.
Wilkinson is also concerned with the formal 
structure of paintings and chooses to use color 
which demands the viewers attention. My 
color is almost pure, she remarks. I use its 
brilliance wherever possible because many 
things in everyday life can be drab. The color 
is layered and repeated throughout the compo
sition while the canvases are often large be
cause the emotions in them are larger than 
life. The large size can also be attributed to 
the fact that Wilkinson is occasionally appre
hensive about her subject matter, as it can be 
considered sentimental. I make my paintings 
bold and aggressive because I dont want them 
to be considered dainty or stereotypically 
feminine. I want to be judged equally with 
male artists.
Wilkinsons influences include Japanese 
paintings of animals, Malcolm Morely and 
naive artists including Henri Rousseau. Be
cause Wilkinsons work is related to what 
happens in her life, it is difficult for her to 
predict what will happen in the paintings in the 
future; however, she wishes to keep working 
with animals and suspects that the composi
tions will become more narrative.
Making Beautiful Surfaces
Bridget Hoyle uses her paintings as a place 
for color exploration and formal considera
tions while her drawings are about the energy 
of the figure, form and human relationships. 
While not in the traditional manner of fruit, 
candlesticks and pitchers, Hoyle considers her 
paintings to be still-lives because of subject 
matter which becomes static. The process of
painting is most important to her and she is 
interested that the painting show its history 
through editing and repainting in some areas 
and leaving others alone. Hoyle also considers 
the role color plays as well as the technique 
with which the paint is applied. The technique 
she uses is often described as decorative, but 
she explains, My paintings arent decorative 
in the traditional manner. Its not the subject 
matter thats decorative, its the way I paint. I 
dont do it on purpose but I like the way it 
comes out. Im interested in creating beautiful 
surfaces and I must make something that 
pleases me.
Ms. Hoyle enjoys drawing more than paint
ing simply because she has more control. 
Even though my figures are awkward, 
theyre more dynamic than the paintings, she 
remarks. Using Giacomettis drawings as an 
influence, Hoyle explores the entire surface of 
the paper, making marks to find the form. She 
also admires Egon Schiele for his use of 
composition and space, and while she feels her 
drawings have more content, they are also 
similiar to the paintings in that they are about 
the process and history of the work.
When printing, Hoyle also considers formal 
problems most, feeling that the subject matter 
is the process of intaglio itself. Because she 
has the least control over printmaking, it is the 
most spontaneous, helping her to loosen up. 
She is also interested in the idea of multiple 
images from one plate.
Hoyle cites Fritz Scholder as an influence, in 
addition to Wayne Thiebaud for his decora
tiveness, luscious surfaces and pleasing color. 
Commenting on her work, Hoyle adds, I 
choose to work in a very two-dimensional way 
because it is limited and I like to challenge 
myself with those limits.
Available from My Place in OaklandSpinach Rollsa delicious combination of Spinach & Cheese (6 oz) 
For Your Organization or Event 
Call and ask about our bulk prices!
125 Oakland Ave. 682-9135 ask for Nick
xvv ^ loU
-f  ss*!1-#
LT.
iiiti^n^,'Mxi 7n-y u. s. a. tx\?RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 ^ PHONE: (213) 955-4900
AC dr v>*
\
ii

---------------------------------------------------

TUTORS NEEDED 
FOR FALL 1988
WALK-IN TUTORING PROGRAM
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY. 
7:00  10:00 pm
CALCULUS 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ACADEMIC WRITING
$3.75 hourly  1 st year
Please call Counseling Center, Ext. 2922,
if interested.
Sponsored by Counseling & Student 
Development Center and Student Affairs
Tired of Kiltie? 
Come and taste the exotic food of the Far East.
KSA Tea House 0
Desk AtteMsunit
1
Betos Taken
APPLICATIONS AAE AUAILABLE AT ANV 
SEAUICE DESK 0A IN THE HOUSING OFFICE IN 
M0AEUI00D GAADENS
Work Study Required
--------

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage D5
And the winner is... Joe Bobs Drive-in Oscars
Up until this moment, all winners in the 
1988 Drive-In Academy Awards, better 
known as the Hubbies, have been kept in 
envelopes hand-made from the hide of baby 
seals recently clubbed to death in Nova 
Scotia. And our first category is:
BEST FU
From the judges report: The Fu Category 
has been devalued in recent years by 
directors attempting to win Hubbies by 
interjecting meaningful violence into their 
movies, thereby completely missing the 
original point ofFu 
awards, which were 
created from, and we 
quote, gratuitous, 
meaningless, unmoti
vated and/or absurd 
violence. Therefore we have rejected 
several nominees, such as Brian Keith, who 
simply explodes camel herders in a desertrescue movie (Death Before Dishonor), or 
Robert Vaughn, who gets away with Beatle 
Boot Fu in Hour of the Assassin for the 
same reason he always has: hes the last man 
in America who WEARS Beatle boots.
What were going for is more inspired Fu  
Fu that comes out of nowhere  Fu that 
makes you cringe in disgust THROUGH
OUT the movie. Were talking Morgan 
Fairchild in Campus Man  Lipstick 
Lizard Fu  or Annette Funicello with the 
terrifying Pajama-Party Bunny Hop Fu 
(Back to the Beach) and any other year 
either woman could have won. But the 
winner is  and its about time 
Louise Fletcher, for her Evil Stepmother 
17-Bloody-Lashes Bullwhip Fu in Flowers 
in the Attic. Shes the only actress working 
today who can move her upper lip a fraction 
of an inch and CLEAR THE THEATER.
: Joe-Bob Goes  
: To The Drive-In j
The womans amazing.
Next category:
BEST DIALOGUE 
From the judges report: In most of the 
movies released during the Academy year 
1987, there was too goldum much talkin. 
This is why we disqualified Claude Akins in 
The Curse (Frances, you turned all nasty 
and ugly almost overnight  I dont even 
hardly recognize you) and Bruce Campbell 
in Evil Dead II (Am I fine? I just cut up 
my girlfriend with a chainsaw  does that 
sound fine?) and 
Karrie Emerson for 
Chopping Mall (Im 
sorry for gettin 
hysterical, I guess Im
  just not used to being
chased around a mall in the middle of the 
night by killer robots.). Finally, it came 
down to two superstars. The first one was 
Timothy Busfield in Revenge of the Nerds 
II, who uttered the famous line Anxiety 
makes me flatulent. But he was nosed out 
by ...
John Ratzenberger in House II: Ive 
seen this before and its always made my 
adenoids curdle.
BEST ACTOR
This was the year that Arnold the Barbarian 
was retired from active competition and Big 
Chuck Bronson only made two flicks 
(Assassination and Death Wish 4), and 
both of em were so lame that he couldnt 
even hardly lift his sawed-off shotgun high 
enough to blow scum off a punk rocker.
That left us with a bunch of young kids 
(Bruce Campbell, flying through wind
shields in Evil Dead II, Rutger Hauer in 
Wanted: Dead or Alive, Robert Carradine 
in Nerds II) and two drive-in veterans who
have never been honored. The first was Rod 
Steiger in The Kindred, as the geneticDNA scientist who turns his son into a 95- 
foot-tall octopus with herpes, and the winner
 a sentimental favorite, cause hes been 
nominated dozens of times but never won 
before 
Donald Pleasance in Prince of Darkness, 
as the Catholic priest who dedicates his life 
to stamping out demonic stinkbugs and 
maggots. Donald started to slow down last 
year, and only made 37 movies, so this 
comes just at the point where hes entering 
the mature phase of his career. The actor 
who can hide watermelons in the bags of his 
eyes.
BREAST ACTRESS
Our most popular category had a 44 tripleD year, with a lot of newcomers in dual 
roles for the first time  Corinne Wahl and 
her Grand Canyon (the sex video scene in 
Amazon Women on the Moon), Suzee 
Slater and her Grand Tetons in Chopping 
Mall, Wendy Lyon going full frontal Linda 
Blair City in Hello Mary Lou: Prom Night
II, and the woman most likely to become 
the drive-in sex queen of the future  
Barbara Crampton, the crazed nympho 
shrink thrill-junkie who cant get enough 
green sex juice in From Beyond. There 
were also at least two pair of veteran hooters
 Sybil Danning, the former ripaway bra 
queen, in Amazon Women, and Caroline 
Munro, the British drive-in queen, making a 
rare appearance in Slaughter High. But 
nobody measured up to the girl in the 
skintight diving suit, the Playboy Playmate 
who saves the world in Hard Ticket to 
Hawaii. Im talking about...
Dona Speir. When this woman showed up 
for her audition for Hard Ticket, casting
director Arlene Sidaris said, Oh, NOW I 
see what women are supposed to look like.
And finally  I know the suspense is 
killing you 
BEST FLICK OF THE YEAR
The nominees are Evil Dead II (Zombiethon), From Beyond (slime glopola), 
The Hanoi Hilton (Nam Fu), Hellraiser 
(sex-fiend pus monsters), The Hidden 
(slime glopola with motor vehicles), The 
Running Man (Arnold the Barbarian), and 
Unsane (Eyetalian gorefest). And the 
winner is ...
Hellraiser, Clive Barkers masterpiece 
about a kinky Ayrab jungle sex-fiend hocuspocus swingers club thats so addictive that 
you beg to be played, frayed, and filtered by 
a tribe of mutant needle-head octopus-face 
pus monsters with steel hooks and manacles. 
Was there ever any doubt?
For those of you who want to see the real 
live Hubbie Awards ceremonies, held on 
West 33rd Street in New York City last 
week, watch The Movie Channel on cable 
during April. Itll be on when they dont 
have nothing else to show and theyre trying 
to make the schedule come out even.
Joe Bob says check it out.
Joe Bob says: 
The last for-real 
Diversions Staff 
Meeting of the year 
will be on Tuesday 
at 8 pm in the office. 
Check it out. 
4^INSDEFSIA 4 TUFEEF SI U6e1FNno pUSnrUnV 
TT 4^INSDEF NRUFRSIA SR UR UeF
Permanent and Summer Positions Available
Carnegie Mellon offers exciting opportunities to join the Research 
Systems staff of its world-leading Computer Science Department. 
Qualified individuals will help extend and improve the functionality and 
performance of our research computing environment by integrating stateof-the art commercial products and research prototypes.
Current development efforts focus on Mach, CMUs multiprocessorUnix operating system. Mach underlies a fully networked environment 
including womstations, high-end mainframes, distributed file-servers, 
commercial parallel processors and custom-built architectures. Activities 
include developing, extending, and maintaining a new, standard Unix 
core comprising both kernel- and user-level software. The Research 
Systems staff is porting the core software to various multi- and uni
processor architectures, measuring and enhancing system performance, 
and implementing and extending window managers and mail servers. 
Future work will integrate systems research contributions from CMU, 
MIT, Berkeley, and otner academic and industrial laboratories. We will 
also assist CMU researchers in utilizing Mach to support their own 
research efforts throughout computer science and robotics. Ongoing 
related work includes implementing and analyzing communication 
networks that employ both existing and emerging technologies.
Applicants should have a BS/MS degree or equivalent combination of 
education and experience in directly relevant disciplines. Candidates 
must be experienced in C programming within a Unix environment and in 
maintaining complex programs. Knowledge of operating systems 
organization and function is required. Experience with networks and 
protocols will be an asset.
Contact: Karen Olack 
egie (412)268-7674
1 Karen.Olack@cs.cmu.edu
WRCT Top 10 Playlist
March 26 - April 8, 1988
LW
1
TW
1
Artist
Carsickness
Record
Tattoo The Wicked...cassette
Label
Dysjecta
2Special EdLove Tobias cassetteRat on a Stick
113Animal TimeDouble VeteranBrave Dog
94Za DharshBig Satan Beat cassetteSSS
385fIREHOSEIfnSST
6DidjitsHey JudesterTouch & Go
347Housecoat Project Wide Eye Doo Datt-bterranean
8Men & VoltsThe MuleShimmydisc
289Syd BarrettPeel SessionStrange Fruit (UK)
610Ignition7-inchDischord

---------------------------------------------------

OFF-CAMPUS 
HOUSING
D,yu,L5y 4!b LJv 
4&4,^4l^b dJ! 4 Lwjlb! 
Jd LJLTFL,&b!y,us 
JddT%4jCwy 4C4!ujbLuy 
4LM fJwybyk
11:00 am - 7:00 pm 
Weekdays 
& 
11:00 am - 3:00 pm 
Saturdays
ATTENTION TUNIORS .,.... ... .... ..... ...... . ^ 
WE NEED YOUR SUMMER ADDRESS!!
Career Services and Placement will be 
sending information to you this summer 
to help you make the most of your 
senior year.
Please send your summer address to 
the Career Services and Placement 
Office, Warner Hall 19 (or drop it off).
If we dont hear from you, the informa
tion will be sent to your permanent 
address.
HAVE A GOOD SUMMER!
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Sun.-Thurs. 7-10 pm
Sponsored by the Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs
CALCULUS 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ECONOMICS 
ACADEMIC WRITING 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107- 
PH 107- 
PH 126-A 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH 5409

---------------------------------------------------

USA<atCrnteSAg
ON YOUR 
VP. NOMINATION, 
OPUS..
iW C-, wtWk
TO LIKE YOU W SAY 
A FEW WORPS AT ft SPECIAL 
FUNP-RAISINb CONCERT 
I'M ORGANIZING TO BENEFIT 
ft TROUBLEP INPUSTRY..
..ft WHOLE AMERICAN MY 
OF UFE IS PISAPPEARING
i,Utrg, C-, wr. 
WON'T HELP OUT #
V
WHY PONCHA CALL UP 
THE MAN WHO FINALLY 
MAPE THE OFFICE OF 
VP. MEANINGFUL ANP 
ASK WM FOR APVICE
\
WHAPPVA MEAN NELSON ROCKEFELLER 
16 PAP ?
/
Bloom County
rrsft &TarTtnECONTRIBUTION FROM "THE UNITE# COCAINE
'acnndio'- rc'Cio'ANP AFFILIATE?
'&cahee fPsPh
"PLEASE ACCEPT THIS SMALL GIFT TO AtP YOUR EFFORTS TOMARP VlCTORy IN NO/EMBER.'*
"-IN EXCHANGE, WE'P UKB 10 HAVE YOU SEE THAT ANOTHER *50 ftitlON OF TAX MONEY BE SPENT ON 
STOPPING ANOTHER 1% OF Alt 5tN/GGLP PRUGS.. 
(ST'S KEEP GOSH, TVE 1HOSE COKE ALWAYSPRICES SHOREP BEEN (JN- UP' OK WE'U. Cm<JRTABU\ SHOOT WU- WITH GOVT I SV&MES
J

---------------------------------------------------

InkspotsBy Kurt ShawOverload
WM
ChU )S HLL. ,
. ^NO IT isn't, I 
(I IUKITHR
COnE OM [ V w icc Yaj* AD* 
WORKLOAp 15 
TUAfj evev \ 
CAkN HANj>(_?
9e UPp A Pr nenz6ne%s
OohPd%N 6DPpp
vi
.Page 1P00PO NP z5 P %ob%x 
&N6 SeQbpNSPNb NESpkkk :Ekkk 
l6coSnt iP0uOd
p3Pe .EO I'M
eJu Ob,e! 4 
PRoPeR . ^Hosr/ y 
FLeAsey^ 
L-T Me LI 
Retieve 
you of 
uf4u V1 H6AVY Im 
BLASTgRl
X CoMers! i 
r EPQnr0N A^d%bC 
A SINGLE SHOT
SII Ve-ar/ j 
WHY Do FReppy 
Af^P MAX 66TT 
.AU-THe V10L6M66:
0PeG 1Jz^0N aPQb NEd%N 
p6r PoJqr6 DSzn EPNk 
pJeU6r U6:DkR :a8i tgeig 9
FH6FH2 NEPN0p obPFDTQ PeOuN^Jqpg 
EJuJ0-b QlJ 66Se6 NJ GJ ,uV
MuhviitYovus
AndoraTelemicus
WfftlS 80M6S2,%4hO Nf,! 
6,J:Dk6ebPz2T
7ves! A 
V^/> (ft?.
GangrusetelguesePhliteYensid
Alpha
Centauri
Havahnycedai
bnou^Vcb
LOxlWaurn BcirneS 
MottV^eui I>\ ejrnooci. 1
UH-HUH. AN> IT 
LOOKS UK 
wHu0 6rg yJkkk
$09, TH\S 1$ 
INSEGUR-IT^ "yJ NESp 
,p 6q-T 
BUt'?
gPel 9 l JOSt PUSH
rC^)\T 7
OKft^
/ew\
MO 0Ai^ WO pftM
(93C...

---------------------------------------------------

By Bob Jenkins
! IVJ
\d$ttw 
tS r^ioRc
v/ you
Wl4f\J H"LL U.SfrSiga
LBy vyAp19d LLamngxetPdkQ
f oh fls V\
f !/
fkMmM h\
wMr V \ ' '
ilme+M** !
X ES f f x
4^INSDEFA
^ W\t$
Wo
(OMy P0)? |

---------------------------------------------------

(OTomflcs saarm9s new adventuresBy Eva Sandor
flio V*a*, 'huo
bad scene
'Ih esc M' fd 'friends of 7a^Ch s (4jha^s>S name and The crew
4byJ U^d6 LEv CU S!E nMTC Ul
**,7 wJV4yT.
HI. fr'ifou MnotvU/hai TVieyVe 
doing NOW?
T(Jh- no. Do I toan+ ~fo p
A T
Theure ea+ina meat man 7- NO 'fht're mak/nq-ft/n ofr  *  [ hoy yoQa. books I &aaujd,
nou) Margot,That's net' I Sam, and "to 11iiv\k ThatcL- 5'ueh a. b'ct d"* I ha has arouhd u/ith pigs frke Hem.
\ Sfck, fhafi what it
4*^-
gonncL <^o meditate.
9
LAST WEEK: The androids Frank and 
Edye are romantically involved.
JZ
s
CJ
<uz
X>
oo
WZ
a
03
w
PQM
U
zM>
Z
ITZjfjr
Frank and 
Edye for no 
reason at a!'
collegiate crossword
ACROSS
1 Slangy children 
8 Mixes
13 Bakery item
14 Incrustations on 
old copper coins
16 Oxygen-supplying 
apparatus
17 Descendant of Esau
18 Most like Jack 
Sprat's food
19 Label
20 Have --- with
(have connections)
21 Mischievous child
22 Suffix for mason
23 Plant again
25 Certain doctors, 
for short
27 Swiss river
28 Followers of Lions 
and Tigers
31 Army officers 
(abbr.)
32 San ---, Texas
33 College entrance 
exam
36 Necessity for 
7-Down
4 0-----Jongg
41 Impudence
42 More suitable
44 Simian
45 Likely
46 Shoe part
47 Class of ball
player
49 Novelist ---
France
52 Atom ---
53 Applied an ointment
54 Rapidly-maturing 
plants
55 Like some kitchens, 
in color
56 Held back, as 
water
57 Sounded a warning 
signal
DOWN
1 Having only 
magnitude
2 Cashed a pawn, in 
chess
3 Hoist
4 Beginning of George 
Washington saying
5 Part of i*prt
6 Ring decisions
7 Spanish painter
8 Jazz dance
9 Well-known magazine
10 Monogram component
11 Knocking sound
12 Singer Pete, and 
family
14 Confessors
15 Tracy/Hepburn movie 
(2 wds.)
24 Outer garment, as 
a fur
25 Ones who impair
26 Stiff-collared 
jackets
29 Buying everything 
in sight (3 wds.)
30 Short-billed rail
33 Gathered together
34 Town on southern 
tip of N.J. (2 wds)
35 Toe ---
37 Albany, 1n relation 
to New York City
38 Was atop (2 wds.)
39 Greek
43 Like a clarinet or 
oboe
45 Sap-sucking Insect
48 ---of Wight
49 Rental listings 
(abbr.)
50 "--- lay me..."
51 Love, 1n Spain
sCALARIHAPpEN
p0LARsSULTANA
EMBRACf1EMPALES
EMMVLEPIDUSEMS
D0MER0VEBRIE
SNERDYENG0MER
sNAILST0RSLi|S1IsCIHASII
C0METSN0SRRECURTHEPERES
ANTSIPR0UsrR0MA
ITA?LITTERIs0N
LIVE0AKELUsIVE
EMIRATERELIVES
DEARTHDEsERT
These are the answers to last 
weeks puzzle.
Edward Julius Collegiate CW8719

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage Dll
Contrasts and complexity in ballet
By LORI MAURER
I Tartan Staffwriter
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre presented three 
contrasting ballets April 7-10 which tested 
the dancers technical talents as well as their 
ability to adapt to the diverse natures of the 
^iree short works.
Scotch Symphony, choreographed by 
George Balanchine, was the first ballet pre
sented. The combination of the costume de
sign, music, and choreography made the bal
let a true experience of sight and sound, an ef
fective representation of the elements of 
Scottish music and dance. Tamar Rochelle 
and Scott Jovovich were particularly strong in 
^his piece, as was the rest of the Ballet as theI
nine pairs of dancers were united cm stage in 
their precise movements.
Scotch Symphony was followed by Mercu
ric Tidings, choreographed by Paul Taylor. 
This second piece was a fusion of modem and 
classical ballet movements, and the dancers 
shifted easily into the style of this piece from 
the classical nature of the first Ernest 
Tolentino was inspiring in his exuberance as 
the male lead as he displayed his technical 
virtuosity in the demanding jumps and spins 
that Taylors choreography called for. Set to 
the music of Franz Schubert, Mercuric Tid
ings brought a range of emotions to the stage 
which were enhanced by the Ballet Theatres 
innovative use of lighting.
Countering the classical nature of Scotch 
Symphony and the innovative Mercuric 
Tidings, Etudes brought ballet in its true form 
to the stage, illustrating the hours of practice
leading to the dancers comparatively fleet
ing moment cm stage.
Choreographed by Harold Lander and 
brought to the Pittsburgh Ballet stage by 
Josette Amiel, a former principal dancer with 
the Paris Opera Ballet, this non-narrative 
ballet shows the different stages in the danc
ers  rehearsal, beginning with a single dancer 
executing the five basic ballet positions and 
then moving on to dancers at work at the 
barre, the pas de deux and finally uniting the 
whole company in a display of striking jumps 
and pirouettes.
The barre work of the dancers was absorbing 
in its precision and exquisite in its simplicity. 
The lighting gave the stage the feel of a real 
dance studio, and the score featuring Czerny 
piano studies seemed to parody the grueling
nature of the dancers warm-up. The final 
portions of the ballet were breathtaking in the 
dancers flawless execution of the pas de deux 
and the combination of the dancers talents in 
the finale. The Ballet Theatre also utilized 
effective lighting in this piece which made the 
stage extend into a hazy blue, boundless infin
ity.
All forty-two of the dancers gave outstand
ing performances, including those from the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Schenley high school pro
gram who were needed to fill the quota of 
dancers for Etudes. Etudes was clearly the 
highlight of the three works presented in the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatres program as it 
united the dancers in a technically challenging 
and emotionally stirring excerpt from their 
lives.
rbv d!Jj ufb PddJ!M4l^b A^JJ!y
*
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Tartan Staffwriter
Pittsburgh band The Affordable Floors re
cently finished their second album, entitled 
Drumming On The Walls. The new album is 
only being released on compact disc and cas
sette. It is very different from their first 
album, The Sounding', band members say 
that they were more experimental in the 
studio, producing a different, more eclectic 
sound. Consequently, Drumming On The 
Walls ranges from the country and gospel 
feel of Blackout to the pop-funk sound of A 
Thousand Days. As John Hayes, Pittsburgh 
Editor of Pennsylvania Musician, said: 
Without a doubt, the most potential from a 
Pittsburgh band in recent memory.
The band has gone through some personnel
changes since their first album. Guitarist 
Steve Morrison left the group in November 
due to artistic differences. After a long and 
difficult search, Eric Hertzog joined the 
Floors on guitar in early March. The addi
tion of Hertzog completes the line-up of 
Harvey Coblin on keyboards and vocals, 
Eric Riebling on bass guitar, Kirk Botula on 
keyboards and Ken Zenkevich on drums. 
The Floors are unique and thats what they 
have going for them, commented D.J. 
Bird (Music Director for WXXP-FM.)
The Floors announced their new release at 
an Album Debut Party at Graffitis on 
Baum Blvd. on Saturday, April 16. Yester
day, April 18, Drumming On The Walls 
became available in area record stores 
(advance copies were sold at the show.)
photo courtesy A.W.O. L. Records 
The Floors in their former incarnation: Steve Morrison, w/guitar, is no longer 
with the group.
SDC would like to share some of our 
accomplishments of the past year with you
Saturday Night Films
Rafting Trip
New Televisions
New Dorm Input
Club Coca-Cola Dance
Survival Games
Clipper Ship Dance
"The Emperor's New Clothes"
Over $3000 in Floor Events 
MorePizza Delivery 
Adjustment of Board Rate 
Increase 
Refelting Pool Tables 
Georgetown Trip 
Fielded Six Buggy Teams 
Participated in Seven IM Sports
All students living within University Housing 
are represented by the Student Dormitory 
Council.
SDC meetings occur every Wednesday night at 7:30 
in the Wherret Room, and are open to all Housing 
residents.

---------------------------------------------------

THIS IS YOUR 
LAST CHANCE!
iSiSKSK Sg&:-S>:KSi
SLEEPING BAG WEEKEND
m
All accepted students from all majors will
be visiting.
We need you to host this time.
cJw! r4jbk 
e4(J!1fJLb
oJJjgGJ!jk
? Im looking forward to hosting 
baggers on April 24-25th.
LJ I would enjoy escorting baggers on 
April 24th.
Return to Warner Hall 101 by Campus Mail or x2082
einmalNEARIYOV
La
g
^The Oakland Review-> _____
including poems, 
fiction, and art work 
by:
Anne-Marie Harvey, 
Elliott Hamilton, 
Christine Liotta, 
Andy Stowell, Debi 
Barkun, Jodi Foster, 
Edie Locke, Georgia 
Sine, Michele 
Osherow, Marie 
Parrette, John 
Zimmerman, Leslie 
Wiegle, Fedrico 
Hattoum, Diane 
Jalbert, David Yezzi, 
Val Adamcyk, Ben 
Donnelly, Kate 
Temple, Marshall 
Klimasewiski, Betty 
Rexrode, David 
Koehn, Elayne 
Tobin, Kathleen 
Summers, Catherine 
Singstad, Susan 
Tribone, Jean 
Norton, Jennifer 
Paniaga, and 
Carolyn Wenning
funded in part by student senateon sale beginning April 21
$400 CASH FROM FORD 
AND PRE-APPROVED CREDIT 
FROM FORD CREDIT.
At Target Ford, we know 
how hard it is to get started finan
cially. So heres what we offer. If 
youve graduated, or will graduate, 
with a Bachelors or advanced degree 
between October 1,1987 and Janu
ary 31,1989, you may qualify for 
$400 from Ford and pre-approved 
credit from Ford Motor Credit Com
pany. To qualify for pre-approved 
credit, you need: (1) verifiable 
employment beginning within 120 
days after your vehicle purchase;
(2) a salary sufficient to cover normal 
living expenses plus a car payment;
and (3) if you have a credit record, it 
must indicate payment made as 
agreed.
The $400 from Ford is yours 
whether you finance or not. Keep it or 
apply it to the purchase or lease of an 
eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle.
For all the details, contact us or 
call Program Headquarters, toll free, 
at 1-800-321-1536.
But hurry. This limited time offer is 
only available between March 1 and 
December 31,1988. So take advan
tage of the Ford/Mercury College 
Graduate Purchase Program now.
$400REWARD
AND THE CREDIT YOU DESERVE!
^ COiLtCf
'*Si P9-Ford Motor Credit Company
vX-'l/FORD
3696 Wm. Penn Hwy. Monroeville, PA 15146 Phone: (412) 856 0600 (412) 242-9900

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage D13
;THIS WEEK IN DH2210
Thursday, April 21
Coca-Cola Kid
Join the Coca-Cola Company and see the world. Eric Roberts is a troubleshooter 
for said soft-drink company who is sent to Australia and he just cant seem to fit 
in. Theres plenty of the bubbly stuff, as well as bubbly Greta Scacchi co-starring 
as Roberts extremely reluctant love interest. When you go, watch for the feather 
pillow scene.
Times: 6,8,10
Friday, April 22
Fatal Attraction
99% of you have already seen this movie, and the remaining 1% of you probably 
already know all about it. In case youre one of the select few who missed it, this 
is not a good movie to take a date to, especially if this is your first. The plot is 
relatively straightforward: boy meets girl, boy gets girl, boy dumps girl, girl tries 
to kill boy. Glenn Close is absolutely chilling as a lonely woman in the 1980s; this 
is not the same person from The Big Chill. Michael Douglas co-stars in the biggest 
and most-talked about movie of 1987.
Times: 6,8,9,10,11,12
Saturday, April 23
Maid To Order
You probably dont remember this one, and thats not surprising. Ally Sheedys 
agent has a special knack for finding her movies that are pointing Sheedys career 
in the same direction as Pia Zadoras. The story is timeless: a rich, snotty, but 
likeable girl has her life (finances) take a drastic turn for the poorer. Follow Ally 
as she adjusts to the life of a simple working girl, although strangely enough, she 
never really seems to have to do anything.
Times: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, April 24
Brighton Beach Memoirs
Pity poor Eugene Morris Jerome. He thinks he has the worlds second worst name, 
and only Haskell Fleischmans is lousier. This is the screen adaptation of the first 
of Neil Simons autobiographical trilogy about growing up Jewish, poor, and 
funny. Jonathan Silverman has the unenviable task of bringing to film the role that 
Matthew Broderick created on Broadway, and he succeeds handsomely. Silver
man demonstrates quite visibly what it was like being a neurotic, prepubescent, and 
painfully virgin 13 year-old in 1938 Brooklyn.
Times: 6,8,10,12
Compiled by STEWART LEVINE
mi) ?jis-hs AMt
l) LTX 7 * 'Jti X\ 3 
-ayy\T\ '& 
h LTi'S
t0
fm d DN
C & RG 3ft QF5 t: S& * *  fk
t%f0 u*mx\
ftz  U h
RECRUIT CO., LTD. has 
been instrumental in the 
development of Japan s 
information service industry.
In RECRUITS Tokyo, Los 
Angeles and New York offices, 
challenging ' work in such 
fields as telecommunications, 
super-computing and 
Publishing awaits you.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL OUR TOLL-FREE NUMBERS OR WRITE TO:
<? RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.^ Pinnr 725 S. Figueroa St., 31st Floor
65 E vS" MV Z LOS Angeles, CA 90017
NW YWk' W Y , (800) 325-9759(212) 750-6100 (N.Y.)
782-7856 (Other States)
COORO'NATOR____________________________
Sesame Street 
5Jby b4yu) Sy!4b^, 
&b!y,JL uJ 4,!
PITTSBURGHThe first foreign version of 
Sesame Street to be adapted for an American 
audience, Shalom Sesame, will air on WQED/ 
13 in five parts: The Land of Israel, April 18 
at 5:30; Tel Aviv, April 19 at 5:30; Kib
butz, April 20 at 5:30; The People of Israel, 
April 21 at 5:30; and Jerusalem, April 22 at 
5:30.
Shalom Sesame is an English language adap
tation of Rechov Sumsum, the Israeli ver
sion of Sesame Street which has been broad
cast since September of 1983. This experi
mental program will explore the people, 
places, culture, and language of Israel through 
a lively mixture of animation, song, comedy, 
and film. Familiar muppets like Ernie (Arik) 
and Bert (Bentz) will join the crew of Rechov 
Sumsum and will speak both Hebrew and 
English while teaching American children 
Hebrew phrases and songs, including the 
Hebrew version of Rubber Duckie. The 
shows will be hosted by violinist Itzhak 
Perlman and actress Bonnie Franklin.
D4yu %f4L%b uJ ybb bBf,l,u
PITTSBURGH  Layers: Media and 
Culture, an exhibition exploring the 
medium of collage, runs March 23 - April 
21 at Carnegie Mellons Hewlett Gallery.
Works by John Baldessari, Milan Kune, 
David Nowicki and Alexis Smith are fea
tured in the exhibition, which explores the 
definition of collage  a centuries-old 
technique of combining printed matter 
and other materials to form an artistic 
composition.
The term collage has shifted from its 
cut paper connotation to a term which can 
be applied to all visual statements that 
recombine disparate elements, noted 
curator Cheryl Regan. With wit, satire 
and irony, the artists featured in this exhi
bition have generated a mirror in which 
commercialism and the decay of society is 
reflected while never losing sight of visual 
poetry.
The Hewlett Gallery, on the first floor of 
Carnegie Mellons College of Fine Arts, is 
open Tuesday-Saturday, 11:00 am-4:00 
pm. Admission is free. For more informa
tion, call 268-3110.
Unibed V\fay
It brings out the best in all of us.
Pkme 363-(
16 INCH
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.fax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
We Make Waves*
8S>*e atf
on ^ese^
Dbv,y8Hairs what we do best.813 S. Aiken Ave., Shadyside 
682-4063
Valid Mon-Thurs, 9AM-3PM Reg. $15-18 Offer expires April 30

---------------------------------------------------

Page D14The TartanApril 19,1988
Before. After.
Before flying Virgin, these typical collegiate-types thought travelling to 
London was about as exciting as taking an 8 a.m. Trig exam with a hangover.
After flying with us, they were as happy as three rock stars on a world tour.
Youll feel the same way. Once youve flown on our roomy 747s. And 
experienced our great movies, music videos, BBC comedy shows, 8 different music 
programs, and all our other award-winning in-flight entertainment. All coming at 
you through a pair of serious electronic headsets.
Still not satisfied? How about a nice hot meal. In fact, a choice of 
3 nice hot meals.
Thats right, its airplane food. With one major difference. Its actually edible. 
Its also followed by tea and pastries later on.
So you can munch out while you do a little extra studying. (Yeah, right!)
Want even more? Then let us remind you of our fares. As low as $219j 
from Newark. $249* from Miami.
Now what do you think?
Great. Then see your travel agent. Or call us at 1-800-862-8621.
Hey, if we could please these sourpusses, pleasing you 
will be a breeze.
is $2191_______

Virgin Atlantic Airways.747&To London.
Take us for all weve got.
One way Late Saver Fare Fees and taxes not included. Bookable within 7 days of departure and must be ticketed upon booking. 
Non-refundable. Valid in New York April 1-June 30. In Miami. April 1-May 31.
If you wish to submit an announcement, ^ 
miscellaneous item, or event to The Tartan, 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania / 15213. Send it by 
campus mail to the above addressor drop it 
off at 5017 Forbes Ave. (The house between 
DU and ATO.)
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its g
sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any events listed. In 
addition, The Tartan reserves the right to 
edit or omit any listing for publication. _
Deadline for Calendar submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next weeks 
issue.
LUXURY 1 BR OAKLAND-SHADYSIDE 
Faculty-Grad Students 
No Undergraduates 
Elevator, A/C, Kitchen 
equipped w/dishwasher, etc. 
Laundry, security, well maintained 
Glickman 521-9555
SHADYSIDE 2 BR MAY 1st 
Furnished or Unfurnished 
Large: Ideal of 3 or 4 
1 Block from Walnut St. 
Equipped remodeled kitchen & bath 
Glickman 521-9555
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, April 
20,1988. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary on 
x2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open 
office hours for students to discuss concerns, 
register complaints and help resolve prob
lems. Days and times available for appoint
ments are at the Skibo Information desk 
@x2107. Phone messages @x5764 (24 hrs a 
day).
Six Characters in Search of an Author.
The classic theatrical examination of illusion 
versus reality. Directed by Rina Yerulshalmi. 
Kresge Theatre. April 20-23. For more infor
mation call 268-2407.
6th International Exhibition of Botani
cal Art & Illustration. Featuring approxi
mately 150 works from collections in such 
cities as Toyko, Peking and Leningrad. Hunt 
Library, fifth floor. Hours are 9 am - noon,
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday - Friday; 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Saturday.
Shattered Self: Northwest Figurative 
Ceramics. Guest curator Matthew Kangas 
assembled the work of five ceramicists for the
simple, tasty and cooked from the heart - will 
culminate on Mothers Day with a Parisian 
bistro style brunch and a drawing of a lucky 
winner of the Festivals Grand Prize: Round 
trip for two to Paris on TWA plus a one-week 
stay at the Hilton International Paris. For more 
information call the Vista International Hotel 
Pittsburgh at 281 -3700.
Notice of art auction. Art Work Donated 
by members of the Associated Artists of Pitts
burgh. Join us at our auction in the Wintergarden of PPG Place on Stanwix Street. Sat
urday, April 23, 6 pm to 11 pm. For ticket 
information call 361-4235.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate 
mass on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 
10:30 am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA 
Auditorium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 
pm, Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On 
Campus? If you are experiencing attractions 
toward members of the same sex, the answer is 
yes. Join sympathetic peers for informal dis
cussions of issues that are important to you. 
For details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-0111.
Sci-Tech 88. Through April 20. 2 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 2 pm and 7 pm, 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm, Saturday; and
2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
National Science Week. April 24 through 
April 30. 
The Red Planet Mars. Through June 14.
2 pm, Monday through Thursday; 2 pm and 7 
pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm, Saturday; 
and 2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit 
at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 
pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 
and noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at ? 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and noon
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Bio Comer. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm ^ 
5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and noon
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit 
at 1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 9 
pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 
and noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Hansel and Gretel. This classic tale by 
the Brothers Grimm comes to life as a poor 
woodcutter is forced to abandon his children in 
the forest. Hansel and Gretel find (and tastejl 
a gingerbread house, are trapped by an evil 
witch, and have only their own courage and 
cleverness to reassure them. Through May 29.
11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturday; 2:30 pm, Sun
day.
exhibition. The Society for Art in Crafts, 21st 
and Smallman Streets, the Strip District. 
Through June 26.
Featured Artist Exhibition: Robin
Kraft. Robin Krafts jewelry is a combination 
of her love of painting and metalwork. The 
Chicago artist compares her work to music; 
the pieces are lyrical and symbolize time with 
their rhythm, flow and syncopation. The 
Society for Art in Crafts, 21st and Smallman 
Streets, the Strip District. Through June 26.
Master of Fine Arts thesis exhibitions. 
April 19 - April; April 26 - May 2, May 3 - May 
10. Hewlett Gallery, CFA. Gallery Hours,
11 am - 4 pm, Tuesday - Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, 
Sunday.
Perspectives from Pennsylvania. This 
annual regional exhibition will focus on paint
ers. Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery. 
April 24 - May 22. Gallery hours are 10 am - 
5 pm, Tuesday - Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Satur
day; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Win a Week in Paris Plus Air During 
Springtime in Paris Festival at Vista Inter
national Hotel Pittsburgh. The world of classic 
Paris bistro is the main theme of the Spring
time in Paris festival taking place at the Vista 
at 1000 Penn Ave, downtown, through May 8. 
Vistas celebration of the uniquely French 
phenomenon - Paris bistro where food is

---------------------------------------------------

JSP'
We have your bike. If you ever 
want to see it again, bring $28,000 
to WeH 3319 on April 31 at noon.
Love is the answer, but while 
youre waiting for the answer, sex 
poses some interesting questions. 
-Woody Allen
CMU WomenNew fraternity organization' We 
Eata Pie Inc.!
'L.O.D.(Barry, Terence, Rob, 
Eric, and sometimes Jeffrey)
On the Gravitron:
Kid #1: Hey, get those fish out 
of here. Youre going to kill 
them.
Kid #2: I know, thats why I 
brought them.
The Fire: May all Calculus teachers 
be as sexy as mine GROOWLL!!
Testarossa'
Lets refine the fine art of Body 
Suction!
Yes, we talk about everything. 
'Cynthia and Julie
Dear Scammer'
How many have been added to 
the harem this week? Do we need 
to sign up for specific times? (Oh, 
by the way ' how much do you 
charge - or is it free for us?)
Your biggest fans,
the freshman'non dramat
roommates
To the guys of PhredsYour Spring Carnival party was 
THE social event of the year. I feel 
sorry for those who missed it. 
'Thanx
To: An artist with a Tan?
Are you free to paint a picture? 
'L.T. Girl
The Buffalo walks tonight.
For every force there is an equal 
and opposite Buffalo.
The good, the bad, and the Buffalo. 
Tale of two Buffalo.
Neil' 
You can call Brad, Brad; 
You can call Pat, Pat; 
You can call Fred, Fred; 
and you can even call Bill, Bill; 
But you CANT call Dick, Dick. 
'PSAC Gremlins
To whoever returned my wallet -1 
love you!
'MKL
Well, Natalie. What do you think 
of the Benedum?
Sure beats the heck out of Three 
Rivers
Send Submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Info. Desk
Please limit entries to 25 
words and one per person.
Classifieds
Jobs/Wan ted
SUMMER JOB DIRECTORY will be 
available starting April 25th, 1988 in the 
Financial Aid Department on the 2nd floor of 
Warner Hall.
ARTS LOVERSMUSEUM BUFFS  
THE CARNEGIE, Pittsburghs oldest and 
largest cultural complex, is searching for 
exceptionally superb communicators to se
cure contributions by phone. Permanent, part 
time. 22 and 1/2 hours per week, 5 days per 
week. Morning or evening shifts. Guaran
teed salary with bonus. Excellent training. 
Commitment to the aits a must! Call 622- 
8840 form 9:30 am-noon only.
COUNSELORS WANTEDTrim-down 
physical fitness coed NYS overnight camp. 
Great times helping kids! All sports, WSIs, 
theatre, arts and crafts, piano, guitar, dance, 
aerobics, computers, go-carts, rocketry, 
general, needle-craft, weight training, 
kitchen, office, RNs, batik, ceramics. Camp 
Shane, Femdale, NY 12734. (914) 292- 
4045.
NEW ENGLAND BROTHER/SISTER 
CAMPS  (Mass) Mah-Kee-Nac for Boys/ 
Danbee for Girls. Counselor positions for 
Program Specialists: All Team Sports espe
cially Baseball, Basketball, Field Hockey, 
Soccer, and Volleyball; 25 Tennis openings; 
also, Archery, Riflery and Biking; other 
openings include Performing Arts, Fine 
Arts, Yearbook, Photography, Video, Cook
ing, Sewing, Rollerskating, Rocketry, 
Ropes, and Camp Craft; All Waterfront ac
tivities (Swimming, Skiing, Small Craft). 
Inquire Action Camping (Boys) 190 Linden 
Ave., Glen Ridge, NJ 07028; (Girls) 44 
Center Grove Road, H-21, Randolph, NJ 
07869. Phone: Boys (201) 429-8522; Girls 
(201) 328-2727.
SUMMER CAMP STAFF WANTED  
Nemma Kaufmann Camp  Morgantown, 
WV sponsored by Pittsburgh Jewish Com
munity Center. Positions: team unit head, 
camp counselors, office manager, driver, 
kitchen staff (Cooks, bakers, salad staff, 
dishwashers), **Specialists: nature, pio
neering, ropes course, swimming, lake, 
drama. Applications call Lenny Silberman, 
director at (412) 521-8010. Extension 244.
WANTED: Office girl to work in an
orthodontists office on Saturdays in
Oakland. Call 683-1210
LEARN LISP PROGRAMMING AND 
GET PAID FOR IT. The CMU Psychology 
Department is conducting an experiment on 
learning to program in Lisp that is open to 
CMU undergraduates. The experiment con
sists of 4 to 5 sessions, each 1.5 hours long 
and covers roughly 25% of an introductory 
Lisp course. No prior programming experi
ence is required. Pay rate ranges from $4.00/ 
hr - $6.00+/hr. For more information call 
x3438.
WANTED  dependable honest men/ 
women for self-employment on/off campus. 
No inventory requirements, MLM market
ing, territory restrictions, experience neces
sary. Be 18 or older. Sell/promote high 
demand personal care products. $12.00 
samples investment required. Detailscall 
(717) 386-2594 or write: C.D.C. Suite 5814T 
Village Center, RD-1, Andreas, PA 18211
EARN $480$ PLUS WEEKLY. Industrial 
project, Incentive, Bonus offer, work at 
home. Rush stamped self- addressed enve
lope to United Service of America, 24307 
Magic Mtn, Parkway Suite 306, Valencia, 
CA 91355.
WANTED: Cleaning person, flexible hours, 
approximately 20 hrs/week at Dean of 
Shadyside Salon. 621-7900.
Housing
SQUIRREL HILL huge bright 2-3 BR 
apartments. Minutes from CMU. Secure, 
laundry. $595-725, available 9/1.371-7017.
2 BEDROOM APARTMENT 
Shadyside/Friendship area, very spacious, 
$425 (includes utilities) 621-7900 or 661- 
1935.
HOUSE FOR SALE  Oakland. Newer 
two-story brick  3 bedrooms, integral 
garage. Quiet street, move-in condition. 
Minutes from University. 681-6604
GREAT STUDIO EFFICIENCY in the
heart of Shadyside with carpeting, equipped 
kitchen, parking and much more. Short or 
long term lease. Furnished or unfurnished. 
Only from $259. Call today 682-7025.
TEACHER WANTS APARTMENT 
SUBLET OR HOUSE, July-August. Good 
references, call 364-5323, evenings.
GREAT STUDIO, one and two bedrooms 
apartments throughout the Oakland and 
Shadyside areas. Features include free park
ing, free heat, equipped kitchen, carpeting, 
and much more. Short or long term lease 
available. Call today 682-7025.
1 BEDROOM APARTMENTS AVAIL
ABLE IMMEDIATELY  Shadyside/ 
Friendship area, spacious carpeted on older 
converted mansion in Fairmont street Study 
area, kitchen, heat, storage, off-street park
ing and laundry facilities available. $300- 
$425 + electric. Call 521-9536 or 521-5799.
REGENT SQUARE AREA. Roomy 3 
Bedroom. Equipped kitchen, above store  
private. Wilkinsburg taxes. Call 362-4384.
ROOM FOR RENT- $275/month  in
cluding utilities  room in vertical du
plex. Has garagetidy non-smoker please. 
Call 421-6271.
Services
RESEARCH PAPERS: 15,278 available! 
Catalog $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 
351-0222, Ext 33. Visa/MC or COD
MINUTEMAIDS: WE CUSTOMIZE 
OUR SERVICE TO YOUR HOUSE
KEEPING NEEDS. Serving Pittsburgh 8 
years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. Free 
estimates.
ALEXS FLOWERS  Formals  birth
days anniversariescheer upmore 
Corsages $1.65 and up. Mylar balloons 
$2.85. 687-4128/687-ALEX (Comer of 
Craig and Bayard) Delivery.
MOVING AND STORAGE SERVICE 
Graduates and college students moving 
locally, long distance or world-wide. Free 
estimates with guaranteed prices. 441-4600.
FOREIGN STUDENTS, IMMIGRANTS
 Dont take chances. Green cards, status 
change, amnesty, legalization  Call 
immigration attorney George Mowod  
4214447. Student rates available.
DIANES PROFESSIONAL WORD 
PROCESSING  Catering to students and 
small businesses. Term papers, resumes,
correspondence. Oakland location. Call 279- 
4272 or 681-5207.
GRADUATION.- YOUR FIRST PRO
FESSIONAL JOB... Where do you look? 
The Pittsburgh Business Employment 
Weekly. We research the hidden Pittsburgh 
area job market for you!! Professional job 
listings mailed to your home each week!! 
Call 372-9081 for free information.
HEADING FOR EUROPE THIS SUM
MER? Get there anytime for only $ 160 with 
AIR HITCH (As reported in Consumer
Reports, The New York Times, Newsday, 
Good Housekeeping, Lets Go, and on na
tional network morning shows). For details, 
call (212) 864-2000 or write: 2901 Broad
way, Suite 100, New York, NY 10025.
Miscellaneous
PREGNANT? NEED HELP?  Confiden
tial counseling  Free pregnancy test  262- 
1220, Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center.
PREGNANT AND MAY NOT FEEL 
READY FOR PARENTING? YOU MAY 
WANT TO CONSIDER PERSONAL 
ADOPTION. We are a cookie-baking 
mommy and teddy-bear daddy hoping to 
give a child a warm and secure home. Well 
offer you a chance to meet and talk with us, 
medical expenses and housing. Most impor
tant, its ALL legal and confidential. Call 
anytime collect (412) 221-8622.
ANYONE WHO WITNESSED 
ACCIDENT on 12/30/87,9:50pm,N. Craig 
and Winthrop, Oakland, between Cadillac 
and VW rabbit Call Harry Booth, 678-2300.
REGENT SQUARE AREA. Storeroom for 
rent, separate building. 800 square feet. 
Commercially zoned. Call 362-4384.
PREGNANT? WE CARE! Counseling  
alternatives  resources  encouragement 
for teens/women in the Pittsburgh area 
communities. Free* Confidential 24 hour 
Caroline. (412) 856-4700.
HUMONGOUS FLEA MARKET. 
Housewares, books, vintage clothing, etc. 
April 23 10-3 pm. Calvary Church, Shady 
and Walnut 441-4577.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16The TartanApril 19,1988
Eventsr---------------------------------------------------------v19 ^;,byM4s
\_____________________________________J
Movies
Tampopo, starring Tsutomu Yamazake and 
Nobuko Miyamoto. Hilarious, off-the-wall 
satire about the owner of a small diner in 
Tokyo and her search for the perfect noodle 
recipe. Some very funny scenes, and one that 
is right out of 9 1/2 Weeks. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Housekeeping. Immediately and in a terribly 
funny way, Scottish director Bill Forsyth un
ravels the sprawling history of a quirky North
western family and its two youngest members. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.
Lectures
Department of Architecture. Werner Kreis, 
associate lecturer at Kingston Polytechnic in 
London, speaks on "The pigeons of St. Marks 
and other sites and sights at 8:30 pm in WeH 
7500.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM 103. All are welcome. ---------------------------.
20 abMLbyM4s
\______________________________________)Movies
Tampopo. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Housekeeping. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 
101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For more infor
mation call 471-9700.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Series. 
Adamson Student Writing Awards at 8 pm in 
the Adamson Wing, BH. For more informa
tion call 268-2850.
Special Events
Explore your Jewish Heritage every Wed
nesday 7:30 pm at the Jewish University 
Center, 160 N. Craig, with Abby Mendelson. 
All you wanted to know about Judism but were 
afraid to ask. No previous Judaic knowledge 
required.
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Home meet against Grove 
City College at 3 pm.--------- --------------------------------------------
W 2 Nfw!yM4s
V________________________________________)Movies
Tampopo. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Housekeeping. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 
101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For more infor
mation call 471-9700.
Coca-Cola Kid, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $ 1.
Lectures
Department of Electrical and Computer 
Engineering Graduate Seminar. Professor 
Arthur B. Baggeroer. MIT, speaks at 3:30 pm 
in Scaife Auditorium. Refreshments are 
served at 3:15 pm.
Department of Psychology Colloquium.
Dr. Richard Schulz, Western Psychiatric Insti
tute, speaks on Social Psychological Per
spectives on Aging and Health at 4 pm in 
Adamson Wing, BH.
Special Events
The CMU Association for Life will be spon
soring the program Fetal-Development and 
Abortion; The Facts in room 13, Skibo Hall at 
7:30 pm. The program will include the film, 
The 1 st Days of Life and the Wilkes slides. 
Nick Sayles will present the program.
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CMs Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa
tion on matters of theology, ethics or any
thing else youve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask. Please 
stop by.
German Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a German Language 
table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Mens Tennis. UAA Championships @ 
Brandis.
Golf. Home match against Duquesne Univer
sity, w/ Westminster at 1 pm.
22 Friday
Movies
Computer Animation. A fine collection of 
30 computer designed latest state-of-the-art
cartoons. Many software companies partici
pated in this fascinating collection on anima
tions. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Glass Menagerie. Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700.
Fatal Attraction, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 9 pm, 10 pm, 11 pm 
and midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon University Objectivist Fo
rum. Dr. David Kelley holds and open discus
sion of Ayn Rands Theory of Concepts at 8 
pm in Breed Hall.
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar. Dr.
George M. Hahn, Stanford Medical School, 
speaks on Biological Basis of Hyperthermia 
as a Cancer Treatment at noon in DH 1212.
Special Events
Spamfest III. Spamfest is quickly becoming 
the premier canned meat event of Carnegie 
Mellon University. This budding tradition 
includes all the Spam you can eat, plus other 
useless food, free! Dont miss out on the fastpaced, Spam-chewin' frenzy of pork. Come 
hungry! 630 Clyde Street at 6 pm. For more 
information call 268-8657.
Shabbat dinner. Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva
tions are required by preceding Wednesday.' 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
Music
Three Bs For Spring Conclude Focus on 
the Bachs Series. Composer/bassoonist R. 
James Whipple is featured in the final concert 
of the Focus on the Bachs series presented by 
the Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet at 8 
pm in Carlow Colleges Kresge Theatre.
Sports
Mens Tennis. UAA Championships @ 
Brandeis.
Womens Track & Field. UAA Champion
ships @ Washington.
Mens Track & Field. UAA Championships 
@ Washington.
W? p4uw!M4s
V______________________________________)Movies
Computer Animation. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission
$2.95.
The Glass Menagerie. Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700.
Maid to Order, sponsored by SDC Films. DH
Admission $1.
Special Events
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
Sports
Womens Track & Field. UAA Champion
ships @ Washington.
Mens Track & Field. UAA Championships 
@ Washington.
Mens Tennis. UAA Championships @ 
Brandeis.
W7 pwLM4s S
V  1_______________________)
Movies
Computer Animation. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
The Glass Menagerie. Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700.
Brighton Beach Memoirs, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $1.
Special Events
A Bagel Brunch will be sponsored by the 
Jewish Univerisity Center in Skibo room 12 at
11 am.
(---------------~----------------------------------------N25 eJLM4s
\_____________________________________)Movies
Computer Animation. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
The Glass Menagerie. Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For 
more information call 471-9700.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
Music
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble is
joined by tuba virtuoso Jay Rozen in the 
premiere of David Langs Are You 
Experienced?, featuring Lang as narrator. 
Pittsburghs nationally acclaimed soprano 
Lynne Webber premieres a work by 
Anthony Korf. Plus, music by Lee Hyla, 
and Gerald Levinsons Balinese, influenced 
The Morning of the World. 8 pm at Levy 
Hall at Rodef Shalom Temple, Fifth and 
Morewood Avenues, Shadyside.2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight.
(_/i L
Rain4pm-D
---------------------------------------------------------------.------------------
: ;  ; iV'.V -a:-.
imRH2p315an1
c1;!
1 p)e)ctowR 10:00 am
.--------------------------------%ooMi ucc Ariydtt
Al// V^//Vn( <V i i// ^A/f Ir, CITTH 7k ilfMtl|I(*Jl \K LrIl Mis ViII" (Ra in f// Vt/> I I ^ V? il tc#>r

---------------------------------------------------

L/ nee upon a time, in a land far, far away, there lived
a band of sometimes-merry, often-serious, and always 
talented people. The people spent most of their time 
with mundane things, like research and studying, and 
while they were happy most of the time, they worked 
very hard and had little time for recreation. At times the 
folk thought that nothing existed but the work they did.
Now once a year, in the spring, the folk of the land 
would hold a great celebration. For three days each 
April, all the land stopped its boring, mundane doings 
in order that the people could join together in entertain
ment, competition, and other forms of frolic. The 
people of the land named this annual event Spring 
Carnival. Every year a theme was chosen around 
which to center the happenings.
So it came to pass that one year the folk chose a 
theme based on childrens stories. The different or
ganizations of the land all built booths around their 
favorite stories from childhood, and a Midway was 
erected where all could partake of the activities.
Then the Lord of the Carnival, who was appointed as 
a special designate of the people, started a great quest 
in the land for an object to commemorate the festivi
ties. He commissioned all the people to search for a 
magical item known as The Real Thing. The people 
obeyed, and went to the four comers of the known 
world in search of this mystical item whose properties 
were legendary. But nobody succeeded.
So the great Lord, who had planned to name the 
Carnival after the item, had a problem. Time was 
running out, and he needed a slogan for his Carnival. 
After much thought, he found an answer that was not 
perfect, but one which he thought would serve under 
the circumstances. He proclaimed the slogan of that 
years Carnival to be When you just cant get the real 
thing. The people agreed with the Lords choice of 
slogan, and the festivities began.
But suddenly, amidst all the events, a very strange 
thing happened. By shoving aside their everyday work 
for a weekend of entertainment, the people relaxed. 
They started to unwind  a welcome relief from the 
normal pressures and tensions which they felt. They 
had fun.
They got The Real Thing.

---------------------------------------------------

Page C2The TartanApril 19,1988
Essence of Buggy Award
Fringe
Womens Buggy
1st Pi Kappa Alpha 
2nd Spirit A 
3rd Spirit B
King Solomon
Mens Buggy 
1st Spirit A 
2nd Pi Kappa Alpha 
3rd Sigma Nu A
Predator
Jerboa
Booth
Chairmans Award: Delta Tau DeltaHansel and Gretel
T-Shirt Design
Booth and overall Carnival: Sigma Tau Gamma 
Buggy design: Delta Tau Delta
Buggy Design
1st Pioneers 
2nd Spirit 
3rd Sigma Nu
possibly because everyone is lost inside the 
mirror maze. However, this fact does not 
diminish the uplifting harmonies of the 
Bangles If She Knew What She Wants. Nor 
does it stop a parent from taking his six-yearold on the Skydiver, following which the 
staggering child throws up on my shoes.
3 pm Saturday
While the Bangles drum out Hazy Shades of 
Winter from the WRCT truck, I am ap
proached by three ATO brothers who ask me 
to follow them. Opening a grate in the pave
ment behind their booth, I am led down into a 
chamber full of about fifty Carnival partici
pants who at some time during Carnival man
aged to score direct hits with all three water 
balloons. Some of these have already had their 
heads pushed down their necks. I am placed in 
a queue of terrified young men and women 
awaiting their turn, one of whom is a boy of 
only six who disgorges onto my shoes. Think
ing quickly, I coolly draw out my Press Card 
and am released.
1st Pioneers 
2nd SDC 
3rd Fringe
Independents
The Little Engine That Could 
The Emperors New Clothes 
Three Little Pigs
Sororities 
1st Chi Omega Pinnochio
2nd Kappa Kappa Gamma Peter Pan 
3rd Kappa Alpha Theta Pied Piper
Delta Delta Delta Rapunzel
Ist Delta Upsilon 
2nd Phi Kappa Theta 
3rd Delta Tau Delta
Fraternities
Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory 
1001 Nights 
Hansel and Gretel
Spring Carnival 1988
Inside...
A 60 Second survival report...obCJ!ub! b&4Mby U4!L,&4^ M4L5b!y
The Tartan has sent me. Intrepid Reporter Bob 
Glickstein. to report on the festivities and 
frolics of this years Fairy Tales-themed 
Spring Carnival. Off I go.
7 pm Friday
The whirling lights of the colorful and exciting 
rides are hypnotizing and wonderful. 
Enormous speakers in the back of the WRCT 
truck are blaring the catchy Bangles song, 
Manic Monday. I decide to try out the enter
taining-seeming ATO booth, Throw a Water 
Balloon at the Head of Someone Who Under
60 Seconds
WITH BOB GLICKSTEIN
Normal Circumstances Would Sit On Your 
Chest and Push Your Head Down Inside Your 
Neck If You Even Thought About Doing 
This. I am lucky and manage to get three 
direct hits, for which I receive a Plush Toy 
designed like a can of Budweiser from an ATO 
brother who has a mysterious, maniacal sneer 
on his face. Moving on, I purchase and con
sume a delicious funnel cake from A Phi O, the 
national service fraternity. A six year old 
who has done the same vomits on my shoes.
9 pm Friday
while two friends get on and spin around and 
around in the sky. Although I watch them 
board and although I keep my eyes on their car 
the entire time, they are gone when the atten
dants open it five minutes later. To the cheery 
sounds of the Bangles Walk Like an Egyp
tian, I am left to ponder the mysterious fate of 
my friends.
10 pm Friday
I am in the middle of a crowd in the bleachers 
of Tech Field, anticipating the beginning of 
what is sure to be a whiz-bang fireworks dis
play. Never mind that the cold metal of the 
bench is coming through the seat of my pants 
and freezing the contents of my bladder into a 
solid block of ice. With the jubilant strains of 
the Bangles Walk Down Your Street reach
ing us, we ooh and ahh to the sights and sounds 
of the rocketing light show. A gaggle of gig
gling high school girls sidles up to me and asks 
whether I am a real live college senior. When
I reply in the affirmative, I am asked to procure 
for them a bottle of any form of alcohol, in 
return for which Debbie over here will show 
you her bubble gum and pubic hair trick. 
Since my assignment is to Intrepidly Report on 
all aspects of Spring Carnival, I readily agree, 
and our exit from the stadium is facilitated by 
our cross-country skis. Unfortunately, given 
the circumstances that followed, I am reticent 
to report all the details, except to relay the 
warning that bubble gum is incredibly hard to 
remove from your pubic hair.
I am placed in a queue of 
terrified young men and 
women awaiting their 
turn, one of whom is a boy 
of only six...
Some of my so-called friends are urging me to 
go on the Skydiver, a ride which has a 
Yiddish name whose literal translation is 
Puke Wheel. I dissent but agree to watch
1 pm Saturday
The crowd on the Midway is sadly thin today, 
owing most likely to the inclement weather, or
5 pm Saturday
I purchase and consume another delicious 
funnel cake from A Phi O. I then unexpectedly 
meet up with the two friends who vanished the 
night before on the Skydiver. When I ques- J 
tion them, they reply with oddly serene, smil
ing faces, saying Yea, ask thou not whence 
cometh thy Salvation; O, praise the all-seeing, 
all-knowing Myron. I make a mental note to 
interrogate the ride operators. In an effort to 
bring my friends out of their trance, I suggest 
another Carnival ride. We board the Gravitron, the worlds largest weight-loss device, 
and for what seems like the next several centu
ries we are flattened against a wall with a force 
equal to the combined surface gravities of 
Jupiter, Saturn, and Oprah Winfrey. Reeling 
from the ordeal, which my friends have en
dured with absent placidity, I shakily climb oft 
the ride. To the toe-tapping rhythm of the 
Bangles If She Knew I Walk On Your Street 
on a Manic Hazy Egyptian Monday, I vomit 
on a six-year-old. J
Despite the cold and snow, 
Spring Carnival 88 came off 
almost without a hitch. Spe
cific event coverage:
Sweepstakes.......Page C3
Carnival Faces....Page C6
Midway.............Page C8
Entertainment....Page C11
Supplement photos by Chris Cox, 
Dan J. Dowhan, Andy Gillespie, 
Jonathan Levy, Howdy Pierce, Jeff 
Rosenblum, Mike Rose, and Russ 
Seligman.
Cover photo and introductory text
by Howdy Pierce.
The editors would like to thank the
entire staff who gave up Carnival fun 
in order that this supplement might 
be printed on time.
Printed by The Tartan, Carnegie 
Mellon University, April 19,1988.
Scottie Dog makes a friend on the Midway.

---------------------------------------------------

WOMEN S BUGGYMEN S BUGGY
BUGGY DESIGN
88 !4%by j4!hbM ls !b%J!MyI yLJv
nwSFSR NERN FET^FD SI uUwwU PjwCU iCERU
kMUIRMV ,EUw9 r LIN 1 pSzUfN
RUzEN RF^wCd uSIA n^j^V^I
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Contributing Editor
After spending two years knocking on 
Spirits door, Kappa Alpha Theta finally was 
let in. Pushing Pika's King Solomon, the 
Thetas won Sweepstakes 88 with a time of 
2:37.6.
In ten years, womens buggy has grown from 
two heats of four buggies to seven heats, 21 
buggies and its own set of finals. However, just 
because the women now have their own set of 
finals doesnt guarantee that the finals will 
occur. Carnegie Mellons first Winter Carni
val almost forced the cancellation of 
Saturdays races.
Cancellation would have helped Fringe. 
After their A buggy. Lunatic, finished third in 
the preliminaries, the buggy developed 
trouble in the freeroll and stopped in the chute.
Fringes spin set the stage for the matchup 
between last years number one and number 
three finishers. Spirit, the defending champs, 
rolled first in a time of 2:39.6, 2.6 seconds off 
their record-setting 1987 pace.
It would have taken the record, or something 
closer to it, to beat Theta. The team of pushers 
Mindy Plagge, Diane Vandigo, Amy Stemple. 
Thea Branfon, and Sheila Bomberger, plus 
driver Darryn Mintz. bettered its Friday time 
by 2.4 seconds on the way to victory.
The preliminaries went Friday without pro
ducing any major surprises. The closest heat 
was the third, where Spirit-B edged Beta-A 
(Delta Gamma) by two seconds. This year, the 
DGs switched from Phi Kaps to Beta's bug
gies, and the combination resulted in Delta 
Gamma's best showing yet.
Pioneers debut buggy captures design
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Contributing Editor
Dark clouds hung over this years Spring 
Carnival; however, there are no such clouds 
hanging over Spirits buggy program. A new 
course record of 2:06.2 erased any doubts that 
Spirit, in only its fourth year of competition, is 
now a force to be reckoned with in buggy.
In more ways than one, Sweepstakes 88 
marked the start of a new era.
 The old mens record, set by Pika in 1986, 
was bested not once or twice, but three times.
 Delta Upsilon showed the rest of the cam
pus that a two-wheeled buggy can make it 
through the chute.
 Two new organizations, Pioneers and Al
pha Epsilon Pi, made their Sweepstakes de
buts Friday.
 Sigma Nu made it through its first finals in 
three years without spinning out in the chute.
 The slowest buggy to make the finals, 
CIAs Stealth, crossed the finish line Friday in 
2:16, a time that would have earned sixth place 
in 1987.
 A record 53 buggies from 19 organizations, 
including 15 new buggies, entered Sweep
stakes.
Spirits record time almost never occurred. 
Snow flurries delayed the start of Saturdays 
races from 8:00 am until noon, forcing the 
cancellation of the alumni heats and reducing 
the time between heats from twelve minutes to 
five minutes.
When races finally began, the effects of 
unprecedented delay showed. The first four 
buggies  Cl A-A, Beta-A, Spirit-B, and 
continued on page C4
Snow delayed the start of the Mens and Womens Finals  and cancelled the Alumni 
heatsbut didnt prevent Spirit-A and Kappa Alpha Theta (Pika) from winning the race.
In Fridays competition, Pioneers buggy Pinnacle, which earlier won the design competition, climbs hill one, and Spirits A buggy QL is set at the start line seconds before its heat. 
Pinnacle did not make the finals, but QL went on to clinch first place in mens competition and second in the womens division.
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter 
Even before the starting gun went off for the 
first heat of Sweepstakes on Friday, buggy 
competition had already officially begun. On 
Thursday, the Skibo Gym was lined with rows 
of sleek and not so sleek buggies awaiting 
Design Competition.
From the intimidating line-up from Sigma
With windshields covered to ensure secrecy, 
nineteen organizations exhibited 53 buggies...
Nu, to Delta Upsilons two wheelers and fi
nally to Sigma Alpha Epsilons Limo, they 
were all there. With windshields covered to 
ensure secrecy, nineteen organizations exhib
ited 53 buggies, twenty-two of which w*ere
presented for preliminary judging. Every or
ganization that planned on rolling had to be in 
design, but did not have to be entered in the 
competition itself. The Design Competition 
entailed giving a ten-minute presentation and
a five-minute question period. The judges. 
CMU professors whose fields ranged from 
History to Mechanical Engineering, evaluated 
the buggies in four categories: engineering, 
innovation, integration and appearance.
According to Kelly Krummert, Design CoChairman, design competition has come a 
long way with the different organizations 
taking it much more seriously and the compe
tition itself become a larger event. This year 
continued on page C5

---------------------------------------------------

Page C4The TartanApril 19,1988
ebL8y lw55s %JjCbu,u,JL 
ybby l!JhbL !b%J!MyI Mb^4sy
continued from page C3
Pika-B  each rolled slower than they had 
during Fridays preliminary heats. The third 
heat of finals was more of the same; Theta Xis 
A buggy rolled four seconds off its earlier 
pace, while Pika-A managed to tie its earlier 
time of 2:09.1 to take first place.
Heat four featured the years most talked 
about buggy. DUs King Eider earned the 
days second seed by rolling to a then-record 
2:08.5 in its first-ever competitive roll.
Inexperience would prove Eiders downfall. 
Beta's push team beat DU up hill one to put 
King Eider in a new predicament: behind 
another buggy at the start of the freeroll. Hill 
two pusher Dino Chisea unsuccessfully at
tempted to slide past Betas Challenger. The 
move resulted in Eider tipping over and 
spoiled DU's chances for a victory after two 
years of watching Sweepstakes from the side
lines.
Finally it was down to Spirit and Sigma Nu. 
Spirit set the course record the day before at 
2:07.4, and was the defending champion. 
Sigma Nu was looking to bring its buggy 
program back to the top. Its 1985 win had been 
followed by two consecutive spin-outs in the 
finals.
In the end it was Spirit, with arguably the best 
push team in Sweepstakes history, coming 
across the finish line, shaving over one second 
off of their existing record.
It seemed a wonder that the races occurred at 
all. As late as Thursday morning, weather 
forecasts were calling for rain on Friday and 
rain or snow on Saturday.
However, the rain stopped early Thursday
afternoon and the preliminaries were able to 
occur. Immediately two organizations were in 
the spotlight. Pioneers, in its first-ever appear
ance, and Delta Upsilon, in its first appearance 
since its 2-wheeled buggy program began, 
faced off in heat one against Betas D buggy.
The results of that first heat set the tone for 
the rest of the day. Pioneers debuted with a 
respectable 2:28.1, while DU did what some 
thought it would never be able to do. Horned 
Screamer made it through the chute on its way 
to a 2:22.3 time.
If heat ones events were surprising, the next 
heat's were nothing short of miraculous. Delta 
Upsilon stunned the masses along the course 
with a freeroll that not only passed all nine of 
Porter Halls windows, but went past both the 
fire plug and both sets of stairs, almost elimi
nating Hill three entirely. King Eider contin
ued along Frew Street to the finish line and a 
new course record.
Suddenly, all of the rules of buggy were 
invalid. A two-wheeled buggy was the fastest 
buggy of all, and a fast time had been achieved 
early in the races upon a cold course.
After heat twos astounding results, the day 
settled into a predictable pattern. Lots of bug
gies ran, and they ran fast. So fast, that Kappa 
Delta Rhos finish of 2:16.2, a time that would 
have won in 1980, could not guarantee KDR a 
return to the finals.
The final feat of the day would occur in heat
15, where Spirits QL was competing. The 
push team of Jay Glaspy, Terence Y arde, Dave 
White, Harvey Beckham, and Gary Williams 
combined with driver Cathy Lin to break DUs 
two hour-old record by a full second.
Delta Upsilons two-wheeled King Eider, shown above before the start of its Friday heat, 
set a new course record by coasting almost all the way up hill three. But on Saturday it 
toppled, nixing DUs trophy chances.
Buggy Course Map
HXEOOLL
PHIPPSCONSERVATOR
PANTHER 
HOLLOW 
BRIDGE x
THE CHUTE
map courtesy of Buggy Book

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage C5
BUGGY DRIVERS
Rocketing across concrete on your belly...
2wyu dJ! ufb dwL Jd ,u
, Dark-colored buggies popular
continued from page C3 
design included a breakfast for the 
participants, buggy videos, the 
Buggy Book and a new Peoples 
Choice Award.
New safety rules concerning driver 
occupancy have brought about 
changes in the buggies from past 
p designs. Krummert also commented 
about the competition that this year
black is definitely in.
In the end three organizations were 
recognized for design excellence at 
the awards ceremony held on the Cut 
Saturday night.
Third place went to Sigma Nu for 
their buggy, Pope. Second place 
went to Spirits QL. First place in 
design was captured" by the buggy 
Pinnacle from Pioneers.
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Delta Upsilon driver Cheryl 
Howard found out about her new 
sweepstakes record Friday morn
ing while she was still in her 
buggy.
Is it official? Shit, its official! 
Oh my God, I dont believe it! 
She described her run as the
Oh my God, I dont 
believe it! 
Cheryl Howard
Spirit unloads one of its buggies just seconds before the starters gun.
most incredible thing Ive ever 
experienced. Later Howards 
King Eider was to tangle with a 
Beta buggy in heat four of the 
finals, eliminating DUs hopes of 
a trophy.
Buggy drivers, in general, are 
hard to describe. Physically they 
are much alike: female, short, and 
light. Although drivers come 
from all colleges, they are all 
mentally driven by the same thrill 
of excitement.
Spirits Cathy Lin, whose 
buggy QL set a course record Sat
urday of 2:06.2, tried to convey 
the feeling. Its really exciting, 
she said. Everyones cheering 
as you near the finish. Race day 
makes everything worth it....The 
excitement is really hard to ex
plain. Lin is an ex-CIA driver 
with four years experience.
What a buggy driver actually 
experiences is clouded in se
crecy. Although a buggys exter
nal features are seen by the entire 
race day crowd, the interior is 
considered top secret by virtually 
every buggy team.
Ill let you see the inside of 
Genesis, Spirit Chairman Dave 
Sowers remarked, but you cant 
take pictures. No way.
Genesis is Spirits D buggy, 
which driver Anne Wagner de
scribes as the clunker. The in
terior consists of a modified bi
cycle frame with a hammock to 
hold the driver, who is also harnassed in place. (Rumors have it 
that QL, Spirits record-setting A 
buggy, contains structural mate
rials that appear on the Militarily 
Critical Technologies List  a 
list drawn up by the Pentagon of 
high-tech items which cannot be 
sold to the Soviets.)
Even though the insides of a 
buggy are taboo, most drivers 
agree on how to describe the view 
from the buggy. Phi Kaps Helga 
Yang says that to a driver, the 
race looks like lots of concrete.
Most drivers practice with their 
buggy starting in the fall, making 
for a long season. Yang claims 
its all worth it in the end, even 
though Phi Kap didnt make the 
finals.
DUs Howard agrees with 
Yang. Its like everything you 
can be, all wrapped up at 
once...Its an incredible high. 
Thats an odd but true way to 
describe shooting across con
crete at an altitude of two inches.
AFROTCs Amy Shalikashvilli enters her buggy before her Friday 
Women's heat. The AFROTC team did not make the finals.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnival Faces

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

BOOTH COMPETITION
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor
There were many high-quality booths on 
Midway this year, commented assistant Mid
way chairman Pete Berger. Power, not surpris
ingly, was a problem on Wednesday night 
when organizations switched from temporary 
power to permanent power run out of the 
stadium. Physical Plant helped those who had 
the wrong outlets or did not know how to hook 
things up.
In response to complaints that some booth 
themes were not really fairy tales, Berger 
pointed out that any themes that the Commit
tee felt were questionable were brought up to 
a vote before the booth chairmen.
Booth judges included CMU President Rich
ard Cyert, philosophy professor Ernie Alieva, 
physics professor Helmut Vogel, Reverend 
Jim Miller from United Campus Ministry, 
physics administrator Joe Rudman, and hous
ing area coordinator Dave OBrien. Daytime 
judging was based on the creativity and crafts
manship of the booth, as well as the game. 
Nighttime judging was judged on these crite
ria as well as on lighting.
Bruce Stewart, booth chairman for DTD, 
said that everything ran smoothly except for a 
few minor mishaps and disorganization. Their 
Hansel and Gretel cottage took third place in
the fraternity booth division. Were really 
proud of what we accomplished...we got eve
rything done that we set out to do. DTD spent 
$2300 on their booth, which was substantially 
less than last years.
One of Phi Kaps booth chairmen, Mike 
Gersch, agreed that overall things went 
smoothly for Phi Kap in constructing the 
booth. Phi Kap has become more competitive 
in the past few years, taking second place with 
1001 Nights in this years fraternity booth 
competition.
Chi Omega took first place in the sorority#' 
division with their Pinnochio booth. Chair
man Katrin Wesner commented, I think our 
house really pulled together. She felt that 
Midway looked excellent this year because 
more organizations were involved and the 
booths were more sophisticated. The theme 
was colorful and aimed at children.
Pioneers took first place in the independent 
booth competition with The Little Train thatf 
Could. Unlike the fraternities, the Pioneers 
have no porch to start building on, so with a 
few small frames and $600 worth of supplies 
they did much of their work on Midway 
Wednesday and Thursday.
Their first place victories in the buggy design 
and independent booth competitions suggest 
that Pioneers, a two-year-old organization, are 
on their way to establishing themselves as 
serious competition.
Midway
Computer Club  The Goose That Laid the Golden Egg
Phi Kap  1001 Nights
Fairy Tales come to life on Midway
SAE  Old Woman in the Shoe
DU  Willie Wonka and the Choclate FactoryFringe  Three Little Pigs

---------------------------------------------------

April 19,1988The TartanPage C9
Pioneers  The Little Engine That Could
SDC  The Emporer's New Clothes
Chi O  Pinnochio
ATO  Trojan Horse
DTD  Hansel and Gretel
KAO  Pied Piper
KKG  Peter Pan
DDD  Rapunzel

---------------------------------------------------

Page CIOThe TartanApril 19,1988
Carnegie Mellon beefs up security for Carnival
Carnival crowds such as these cause security headaches.
CARNIVAL SECURITY
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffer iter
Because of the large number of people pres
ent, Carnival presents special security prob
lems for the university. Two organizations are 
responsible for maintaining safety at Carnival: 
the Carnegie Mellon Police Department and 
the Carnival Monitors.
According to Carnegie Mellon Police Ser
geant Bill Ricci, At Carnival theres always 
the potential for problems and...this is directly
According to CMU Police 
Sergeant Bill Ricci, At 
Carnival theres always 
the potential for prob
lems...
attributed to the non-Camegie Mellon people 
being on campus. That's [the majority of] our 
problems.
The major problem at Carnival, according to 
Ricci, is petty thefts. After thefts the most 
common security concerns are occasional 
fights and injuries. Every year, security also 
has to deal with a few people who have had too 
much to drink.
To handle the increased potential for prob
lems the security office increases its man
power during Carnival. During most of the 
school year there are an average of 10 officers 
and one superv isor on duty at any one time, 
although the numbers vary widely. During 
Carnival the department adds four to eight 
officers on patrol and an average of twq addi
tional supervisors. A typical Carnival assign
ment would have four officers on the midway, 
two in the football stadium and intramural 
field area, and two at the fraternities. Ricci said 
that one of the major problems at the fraterni
ties is outsiders trying to crash parties.
The second component of Carnival security 
is the Carnival Monitors. The program, which 
uses students to help with security needs, is the 
brainchild of current Carnival Security Chair
man Toby Ayre and late Carnegie Mellon 
Police Chief Robert Fadzen.
Ayre described the Carnival Monitors pro
gram as an attempt to use students as moni
tors to only watch and present a presence on 
Midway and around Carnival grounds as a de
terrence to crime.
The program employs up to 20 students at a 
time as monitors. The monitors are sent out in 
groups of two or three to walk around the 
Midway and watch for problems, which are 
reported by radio to Ayre. If the problem is 
serious enough Ayre relays the problem to
Security.
The Carnival Monitors go through a training 
program run by either Ayre or Security to teach 
them what to look for on the midway and how 
to respond to various situations. However, 
Ayre said that It all boils down to one basic 
rule: Do not get physically involved in any
thing. The monitors have one responsibility 
and that is to observe and report. They cannot 
become physically involved and that is a reason 
for immediate termination.
nERRSIA Mwlll
A years worth of 
preparation for booth 
took almost a week to 
set up and only a 
couple hours to tear 
down. CMU students 
shown here were busy 
starting Monday eve
ning and ending Sun
day morning.
V.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Music flows from the tent all Carnival long
CONCERT REVIEW
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU Jazz Choir
I
On Thursday, the first day of 
Carnival, the Carnegie Mellon 
Jazz Choir sang for their sixth 
straight year in the Tent. The 
show, which started at 5:00 pm, 
was incredible. Following Hercu
lean efforts by AB Tech to keep 
the Tent from falling apart, the 
ffazz Choir kicked off the show 
with Jim, Jam, Jump.
The 10 member group performed 
their hearts out to a capacity 
crowd. The concert included songs such as 
Sam the Be-Bop Man, Boogey Down, and 
Birdland, as well as arrangements from 
songs by the Manhattan Transfer and Chuck 
Mangione.
?There are auditions to join the choir in the fall, 
open to anyone, music major or not, under
graduate or graduate.
The Heavy Cats
CMUs own Heavy Cats captivated the sur
prisingly large amount of people assembled in 
the Tent on Friday. After they began playing, 
^everyones feet began moving. It was hard for 
people to keep still with the incredible improvisational skills that these eight guys exhib
ited.
The Jabberwocks, a four member a capellajazz ensemble, play the 
Carnival tent on Saturday afternoon.
As the group of young kids who danced in the 
back of the Tent can tell you, this group was 
good. Compositions by Dizzy Gillespie as
The Image was but one of the featured 
Carnival bands.
well as members of the band 
made for a toe-tapping afternoon. 
They ended the show by honor
ing a request from the audience 
for a rendition of The Theme to 
Sanford and Son, which theyplayed most excellently. This 
Jazz Combo is one that you 
shouldnt miss!
Kiltie Band
The Kiltie Band played what one 
would expect from the band: a 
top-notch performance. This, 
CMUs Marching and Concert 
Band, is a Carnegie Mellon tradi
tion as well as a treat to hear and 
watch. Decked out in traditional 
Scottish attire, the Band That Does Not Wear 
Pants put on quite a show.
The band played an arrangement of Hands 
Across the Sea, as well as an intense arrange
ment of Duke Ellington classics. It was not 
what one expects of a Marching Band, except 
here at CMU.
Hector in Paris
This six member band played in the Tent at 
noon on Saturday. Playing to a multitude of 
overzealous fans, they put on a good show. 
With their fans dancing themselves into a 
frenzy up front, they asked that the heat be 
turned off (which subsequently scared the 
people who were there to just get out of the 
cold).
The Alarm didnt quite ring true
CONCERT REVIEW
By M. HALASA
Tartan Staffwriter
Five years ago when the Alarm became known, they were 
famous for having three-foot-high plant-like hair and, in fact, 
were dubbed as the men with big hair. Since then, the bands 
reputation has undergone a definite change. The focus is not on 
hair, but on the more substantial elements of their own Wales 
roots  a working-class ethos, Christian sentiment and human
istic optimism. These elements, however, cannot come across in 
their music when the performance is unconvincing and clumsy. 
Such is what happened at their performance in CMUs gym on 
Friday. No matter how real the music is, an audience can not 
experience musical altruism when socially-conscious themes are 
muddled in a hokey and immature presentation.
Musically, the Alarm not only performed their melodic, rock n 
roll ballads well, but displayed a tremendous energy on stage. 
Led by vocalist Mike Peters, known to wear his heart on his 
sleeve, the Alarm opened with Newtown Jericho, Perma
nence in Change, and Absolute Reality. Peters stoic stage 
presence, guitarist Dave Sharps potent guitar and the reverber
ating drums of Nigel a la sunglasses Twist intentionally em
braced the audience, subtly representing the Alarm s desire to 
create societal change through individual means. The band hopes 
its music can touch people personally and make them not only 
aware of the world around them, but give them the incentive to 
take action better themselves in their own lives.
Musically impressive tunes included One Step Closer to 
Home, an acoustic ballad highlighting Sharp s scratchy and 
gutsy voice, and 68 Guns, a war-cry manifesto about fighting 
for what you believe in. But undoubtedly the best song of the 
show had to be the diamorphic Strength, in which Peters trium
phantly wails, Give me love / Give me strength / Give me hope
/ Give me someone to live for.
Message is an important element on the Alarms agenda. To 
introduce songs, Peters interjects his own philosophies on several 
matters. He questioned the implications for rock n roll when the 
music has lost its substance, its "blood and guts, and additionally 
warned not to forget the value of human bonds in a world that 
tears people apart. Also message-laden were escue e, 
Blaze of Glory. and Spirit of 76, which surprisingly turned 
out to be genuine crowd-pleasers, although they did not exhibit 
the sincerity and credibility their lyrics dictate. Quintessential 
elements of freedom, unification, and noncon ormity a un in 
these songs, yet it was these songs that exemplified the show s
The Alarms guitarist Mike Peters performs in the gym on Friday.
mishaps. Clenched fists hammering the air and gosh-dam slaps, no 
doubt intended to foster a sense of unity and brotherhood among the 
audience, came off instead as over-idealistic naivete. I expected the 
show to be a mature jam-session, not arena-rock.
It may be ridiculous to harp on a band for their presentational style 
when they have done justice to their music and well-meaning inten
tions. Yet presentation is one of the major bases of impression, and a 
poor one not only leaves a bad image, but has an annoying tendency 
to decapitate any message. Thus, the Alarm must look real if they 
want their lyrics to have impact. Despite some faults, the Alarm still 
has retained their honor. They are technically competent musicians 
and conscientious songwriters that have mastered the ability to tran
scribe philosophy into song, and the ability to weave melody and har
mony into simple and unadulterated rock.
Carsickness cranks up the volume.
The Jabberwocks
At 2:00 pm in the Tent, The Jabberwocks, an 
a cappella group, sang. A cappella means no 
instruments, but that in no way limited The 
Jabberwocks. These four guys made harmo
nizing seem easy. They encouraged audience 
participation with the threat, Remember, I 
have a 50 foot long mike cable.
The arrangements they sang of Return to 
Sender, Under the Boardwalk. Elvira, 
My Girl, Runaround Sue, and Rockin 
Robin were no less than fantastic. They sang 
some humorous songs also, such as She Was 
Only 16, 15, 14, 13, 12. This group left to a 
standing ovation.
Carsickness
One word describes it all: LOUD. That is 
exactly what this band was, very loud. I 
couldnt hear the words to the songs, but the 
fans enjoyed it. This group was extremely fastpaced. Though loud, they seemed to have a lot 
of fans, and the fans loved to dance and sing 
along with the music.
The Image
The Image played to a big crowd on Saturday. 
They had everyone singing along to the tunes 
we all know and love. The popular tunes of 
yesteryear, tunes such as Keep Your Hands to 
Yourself, Addicted to Love, Take It 
Easy. and The Dark Side. They were very 
enjoyable: some in the crowd were dancing 
while others were singing, and yet others were 
doing both.
The Image had a group of lead and rhythm 
guitar, bass, drummer, and keyboardist. All 
were fine musicians, and solos were excellent.

---------------------------------------------------

Page C12The TartanApril 19,1988
COMEDY REVIEW
Carnival isnt all 
fun and games
AB TECH
By MICHAEL ROSE
Tartan Diversions Editor r
Okay, said Fred, let me get this straight
I sighed internally. Fred is a wonderful fellow, and at 
those rare moments when he is less than brilliant, I should 
be more understanding. Still, his remarkable thick-head
edness on this occasion was rapidly driving me batty.
it's very simple, Fred, I said, resisting the urge to beat 
him about the head andneck with a blunt object in order 
to facilitate his comprehension, AB Tech worked all the 
way through Carnival, and is still recovering from the j 
experience.
All the way through Carnival?!? exclaimed Fred, 
Thats insane!
Yes, I said, thats the whole point Insanity is an 
occupational hazard when youre dealing with the kind 
of stuff Tech is. Imagine having to push-start ajbrklift, 
then using that forkliftalong with a Ryder truck  to 
move a multi-ton, 50,000 watt generator  without a 
tow ball, so it was chained to the track (with a chain that 
was, ah, appropriated from the Skibo automotive stor
age facility)  along Forbes Avenue, down Margaret 
Morrison St., up Tech St., up the driveway to the Gym 
(for the venue-shifted Alarm concert), then into a teenytiny loading dock where the generator came incredibly 
close to rolling over and crushing two technicians  all 
at about 5 am. Worse, we realized, days later, that the 
reason the generator was so dadblamed heavy was that it 
wasnt a 50,000 watt model, like we thoughtthe nerds 
who rented us the beast gave us a 150,OCX) watt model 
instead, and the 150kw version is, appropriately, about 
three times as bulky as the one we wanted in the firt 
place.
Fred stared for a moment Wow! he said reverently, 
as though in a religious coma. Could I join AB Tech 
next year? It sounds really cool!
It was my turn to stare blankly for a moment Hes 
missed the point. Another inward sigh. Lemme explain 
this one more time... I said wearily. Some people just . 
dont get it at all. 1
THEATER REVIEW
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Scotch n Soda, CMUs amateur 
drama group, presented Improv 88: 
Evening Explosion for five perform
ances during Carnival weekend. 
Originally only one show was 
scheduled for Saturday night, but 
due to the unexpected demand, a 
second showing was added at 10:15.
Overall, the show, based upon 
improvisation and audience interac
tion, was funny and entertaining. 
The actors would prompt the audi
ence for a word or situation, and 
incorporate this input into their per
formance. For the most part, the 
actors successfully used the 
audiences suggestions and, al
though there were moments when 
the actors had difficulty, they made 
up for it with their energy and enthu
siasm.
The success of Improv 88 was 
mainly due to the ease with which 
the fifteen actors presented them
selves on the stage. It seemed as if 
they were playing a game with the 
audience rather than performing to 
them.
The variety of the scenes was well 
planned, and the actors moved 
quickly from one to the next. One of 
these scenes, entitled Murder by
pU6NUEL0pd*L PHelnHThh
Improv, had funny moments, espe
cially during the beginning and the 
end, but dragged in the middle dur
ing a long monologue which intro
duced the scene.
One very funny scene, Poet 
Comer, involved three actors who 
improvised poems when given 
dying as a subject by the Thursday 
night audience.
These scenes, along with about 
twelve others and three musical 
numbers, combined to create the 
show. Directed by Tamar Copeland 
and musically directed by Jessii 
Ramey, Scotch n Sodas Improv 
88 was a very funny show. A good 
variety of subjects and enthusiastic 
actors who improvised well made it 
an enjoyable part of the Carnival 
activities offered to students this 
weekend.
Scotch n Soda pulled off a successful five-show production of Improv
88: Evening Explosion during this years Carnival.
Area H.S. students enjoy dances
DANCE REVIEW
By ERIKA L. PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor 
There were two of them. They 
were in the tent Yes, its the AB 
Dance and the SDC Dance at Carni
val. Thursday night AB brought us 
Baby Huey and the Babysitters, a 
silly name, but a decent band none
theless. Playing a mixture of jazz, 
pop, and oldie led by the energetic 
vocals of the two lead singers, the 
Babysitters performed for a audi
ence of varying size. The band 
started up at 10 pm, about an hour 
late, to a crowded if not packed tent 
of dancing folks. The crowd thinned 
considerably as the evening went on, 
possibly drawn to more exciting (or 
at least more sickening) attractions
such as the infamous Gravitron and 
A Phi O funnel cake.
Friday night SDC provided us, or 
rather the teenagers from Oakland, 
with a lovely selection of Top 40 (or 
at least I think thats what it was 
since I didnt recognize any of the 
songs) tunes in a program called 
(and this gets the second place award 
for silly names right behind the illus
trious Babysitters) Vinyl Fron
tiers. The show included the ever
present video screen which showed 
a lot of shots of Madonnas midriff 
and other staples of afternoon MTV. 
Im really not sure who the audience 
for this show was supposed to be, but 
they didnt show up either. SDC 
shouldnt take all the blame, though, 
because it was just a wee bit too cold 
for standing in the tent
Improv 88 integrates audience 
interaction for a successful show
He WAS that good...
Jackman juggles and jokes with ease
By AMANDA COHEN 
Tartan Staffwriter 
His publicity shots may have said Nobodys this good!, but 
Edward Jackman was that good. Contending with the wind, the 
cold, the flapping tent walls, and the noise of Carnival rides, the 
comedian/juggler managed to pull off a show good enough to 
make people forget that it was snowing on Carnival.
Jackman turned every technical shortcoming into comedic 
fodder. He was funny enough when he was just standing on the 
stage talking, so when he started juggling, it only got better. Not 
only did he avoid doing the same things that all the other 
jugglers do, but he also displaced a few juggling myths. Before 
juggling a large knife, he demonstrated its sharpness by cutting 
a carrot with it. He then demonstrated what a useless demon
stration that was by cutting the carrot with a tennis racket and 
the mike stand. In Jackmans own brilliant words, It doesnt 
take a laser beam to cut a carrot.
Clearly the sub-forty degree temperature was to blame for 
Jackmans few mistakes. Luckily none of the mistakes in
volved the large knife. Or the bowling ball. He only dropped a 
few harmless props, and when he did, he covered comically by 
waving around whatever props he hadnt lost while grinning 
and fetching the runaway. Everything that wasnt juggling was 
stand-up comedy, but once in a while his delivery started to 
sound like Howie Mandel or Bobcat Goldthwait.
Jackman took every standard juggling routine a step or two 
further, turning the devils stick into a percussion instrument 
and audience members into expert-looking jugglers and musi
cians. The theme of Jackmans show seemed to be that every
one could do anything. Throughout the performance he re
peated that anyone could juggle like he could if they just 
practiced. Try to practice balancing a bicycle on your face 
while juggling four pins. Then maybe youll get a network TV 
show too.
Jackman explained that this show was part of a nationwide 
tour and that he had a television crew with him in order to gather 
material for a forthcoming NBC series called Funny People. 
The show, produced by George Schlatter and hosted by Jack
man, will feature normal people who can do funny things. The 
tapes will be edited into six half-hour shows that will be 
broadcast at 8 pm on Wednesdays beginning in July.
At the end of his tent performance, he asked whether anyone 
in the tent audience could do anything funny. And since no one
Edward Jackman, comedian, juggler, and talk show host 
extraordinaire, performs in the tent on Friday.
else dared, I personally laid my reputation on the line and went 
up. Should the producers choose to run this segment on the 
show, America will see me attempt to interview Edward 
Jackman in front of a live audience, and then go up and do a few 
too many minutes of stand-up comedy. But watch the show 
anyway, because afterwards Jackman and the TV crew wan
dered the Midway to find the real funny people.
