.........
^ y. * ' ^ >   phOCO by Afidy GiHdJW
#
SAMS Chairperson and President of Student Government Andy Robitshek sells balloons for Students Against Multiple Sctlerosis 
at last Saturdays Tartan Football game. Saturday was the SAMS 8VS8 fundraising kkkoffthe first step toward Its $30,000 
goal. Future SAMS events include a dance, a Rock Alike Competition, and a Donate-A-Meal day.
p\IFC Report Recommends ATO Probation< Endowment 
Suffers Major 
Setback
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons endowment fund 
 suffered a severe setback as a result of 
the recent stock market woes. Accord
ing to Vice President of Business Af
fairs, Fred Rogers, Carnegie Mellon 
lost nearly $20 million.
As of June 30, the schools total en
dowment was over $265 million. The 
endowment is composed of funds re
ceived from alumni, foundations, and 
gifts from private individuals or compa
nies for use by the university (in fiscal 
year 1986-87, 35 percent of living 
alumni contributed to the school).
Rogers pointed out that not all of 
these funds are invested on the stock 
market.
Certain funds are restricted and are 
not subject to the universitys discrem tionary use. Other funds are designated 
as unrestricted and are invested to in
crease their worth.
Early this year, as the stock market 
was on a steady rise, the endowment 
benefited and grew. Then, when the 
market almost collapsed, in what Wall 
Street investors are calling, Black 
Monday, Camegie Mellon suffered, 
just like every other investor around the 
country. The Dow Jones Average 
dropped 508 points.
According to Rogers, the 
endowments value fell to around 245 
million dollars. The loss was so severe 
because the market was up prior to 
Black Monday, and so the value of 
the endowment was higher.
The actual investing is not handled by 
anyone at the university. Investment 
managers selected by the board of trus
tees do the actual trading and investing.
As to whether or not he or anyone 
knows how much and of what stocks are 
owned by the school, Rogers said that 
we are not sure on any given day what 
our investments are.
By JEFFREY S. HAVRILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tuesday, October 27, the Interfratemity 
Investigative Committee submitted a report to 
the Interfratemity Council (IFC) concerning 
the actions of Alpha Tau Omega during the 
fraternity pledge night this fall. The report 
included recommendations of possible social 
probation for ATO and the establishment of 
concrete pledge night policies.
The Chief Court Justice for the IFC, Todd 
Tomczyk (a Delta Upsilon brother), was chair
man of the committee that drafted the report. 
He explained how the report itself has little 
value until the IFC as a whole votes on the 
issue. What we [the committee members] did 
was investigate the facts. We tried to investi
gate whether or not ATO as a house should be 
held responsible for the individual incidents 
that occurred that night. The individuals in
volved are pursuing independent settlements.
Since the guys who got hurt know exactly who 
hurt them, they can press [personal] charges 
against them, whether it be in the IFC or crimir 
nal court. The report, however, deals with 
ATOs activities during the entire night, and 
the recommendations in it were based on the 
overall situation. What we have to do now is sit 
down and review the report, since it was writ
ten to inform the IFC members and those 
involved so they could prepare defenses when 
the issue is voted on at the next IFC meeting 
[Tuesday, November 10].
Theta Xi brother Phil Antonson was a 
member of the investigative committee and 
agreed that ATO should not be held respon
sible for individual actions. When I was 
asked to be on the committee, explained 
Antonson, I was assigned to investigate the 
ATO - DU incidents involving other houses 
[specifically Kappa Sigma], as well as the 
fight itself. When we [the committee] got
together, we found that we pretty much agreed 
on the facts concerning what actually hap
pened, and that no disciplinary action against 
ATO should be taken, as far as the individual 
incidents themselves go. One source told me 
how some of the DU brothers kept on pushing 
their way onto the ATO porch after being told 
not to come up. You really cant justify some
one getting punched in the face, but it was 
obvious to me that there was provocation on 
both sides concerned. The ultimate decision 
of the committee reflected the opinion that the 
individuals themselves should take responsi
bility for their own actions, and that ATO as a 
house was responsible only as far as the lack of 
communication and control were concerned.
Tomczyk declined to comment on the com
mittee recommendation for social probation, 
feeling that any such comments would be 
premature considering the tentativeness of the
continued on page 8
The Peace Corps experience and search
ing for superheroes...
FEATURES......................Page 17
SPORTS..........Page 28
The Tartans handle Div. I Pitt, but have 
trouble with Div. Ill opponentsThe Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 9 Carnegie Mellon University November 3,1987
Pressler, Druffel Debate Over SEI
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Staffwriter 
In an open stand-off Thursday afternoon, 
Larry Druffel, the director of the Software 
Engineering Institute, and Jonathan Pressler, 
>a Camegie Mellon Philosophy professor, 
engaged in a public debate over the ethically 
controversial issues involved in SEIs rela
tionship with the Department of Defense. The 
debate, sponsored by the ECE Forum (Elec
trical and Computer Engineering) in Gregg 
Hall, gave CMU students, faculty, and staff 
an opportunity to witness first-hand the argu
ments for and against SEIs software engic^neering program, a program funded largely 
by the DoD and designed mainly to satisfy the 
software engineering needs of American 
military technology.
The debate started off with Jonathan 
Pressler giving his own description of the 
SEI, and then he detailed several arguments
against the the purpose of the SEI and the way 
in which it is run. As Pressler phrases it, Car
negie Mellon signed a contract with the DoD in 
1984 making it the manager of the Software
Engineering Institute. Its important to remem
ber that the SEI is a DoD facility. SEIs mis
sion is to provide rapid improvement of the 
quality of operational software in mission-criti
cal computer resource systems. What are mis
sion-critical computer resource systems? 
They are software and hardware systems es
sential to the operation of equipment involved
in fighting wars, says Pressler. An example 
would be military aircraft, current tanks, 
guided missiles, navy ships, etc. As the con
tract says, The SEI will be tasked to satisfy
the software technology needs of the DoD. 
The ultimate decisions about the SEIs workprogram are made by the joint Department of 
Defense Advisory Committee, which is in
deed a committee within the DoD.
Im going to present ethical arguments in 
spite of the fact that Angel Jordan said there 
are no ethical issues related to SEI. declared 
Pressler. Its apparent that the United States 
knowingly gives and sells military weapons to 
support governments and groups that use them 
to suppress democracy, exploit workers, de
stroy peoples' homes, paralyze innocent civil
ians, and murder children. SEI might well be 
involved in things we certainly wouldn't ap
prove of.
Two of Pressler's arguments against the SEI 
are as follows: A)One has a certain responsi
bility to determine whether the products one 
manufactures for an agent are intended to be
continued on page 7
...anyone working for the SEI knows that many of their prod
ucts will be eventually used in crimes against humanity...
Jonathan Pressler
I say that if we can build software technology that can make 
American lives safer the next time, then Im all for it.
Larry Druffel

---------------------------------------------------

/Page 2The TartanNovember 3,1987
Gorbachev Will Visit 
U.S. in December
WASHINGTON (DJ)  President Reagan, 
in announcing that Soviet leader Mikhail 
Gorbachev will visit Washington beginning 
Dec. 7 for a summit likely to result in the 
signing of an intermediate range nuclear arms 
treaty, said that progress is possible on 
bridging differences between the U.S. and the 
Soviet Union over Reagans plan for a strate
gic defense system, called SDI.
But Reagan also said he has made it clear to 
the Soviets that there is no way we can give up 
SDI.
The President also said talks would continue 
on reducing stockpiles of longer range weap
ons, and said he hopes to be able to sign such 
an accord in a return visit to Moscow next year.
Reagan made the announcement in the 
White House briefing room after meeting with 
Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevard
nadze.
Shevardnadze held meetings earlier in Octo
ber with Secretary of State George P. Shultz, 
and both sides said afterward they had nearly 
finished work on the treaty.
But at the close of the talks, Gorbachev 
surprised his guests by saying he was not yet 
prepared to travel to the U.S. for a summit.
But last Tuesday, in Moscow, U.S. Ambas
sador Jack Matlock was called in by Shevard
nadze, who told him he wanted to fly to Wash
ington for talks at the end of the week.
Iranian Missile Kills 
Baghdad Civilians
BAGHDAD, Iraq (AP)  The military said 
an Iranian missile slammed into a residential 
area of the city early Friday, killing an un
specified number of civilians. Iran said the 
missile was aimed at Iraqs air force com
mand.
An Iraqi military spokesman said a number 
of citizens were martyred and another number 
wounded when the missile supplied to the 
criminal Iranian regime by the enemies of the 
Arab nation hit Baghdad.
Correction:
Last week's Tartan incorrectly reported 
the Student Senate vote on their free 
speech resolution as 12-4. The actual 
vote was 14-12.
The spokesman, who was not identified, also 
said the missile demolished a number of civil
ian residences and damaged others. The state
ment was carried by state-run Baghdad radio, 
monitored in Cyprus.
Iraq will not let these crimes pass without a 
severe punishment at the appropriate time, 
said the spokesman. He did not elaborate.
Irans official Islamic Republic News 
Agency, also monitored in Cyprus, reported 
the surface-to-surface missile was fired at 1:07 
am at a building housing the air force com
mand in central Baghdad.
The report did not say where the missile was 
fired from, but the nearest Iranian border is 78 
miles east of Baghdad.
Two Americans Shot 
Dead In Philippines
MANILA (AP)  A U.S. serviceman and a 
retired American air force officer were shot 
dead Wednesday in attacks near the giant 
U.S.-run Clark Air Base, the military reported.
Maj. Gen. Donald Snyder, 13th Air Force 
commander, said a Filipino was also slain in 
one of four shooting incidents near the base, 
and the car of an American was fired on. He 
said the driver was not wounded.
Snyder, appearing on the military Far East 
Network, said the identities of the assailants 
were not known. He said he ordered strict 
security around the base, 50 miles north of 
Manila.
More than 26,000 U.S. troops, Defense 
Department civilians and dependents are sta
tioned at the base, located in Angeles City. 
Communist rebels operate in the area but in the 
past have generally refrained from targeting 
Americans.
However, the rebels have issued warnings 
recently that they would target Americans if 
the United States became deeply involved in 
counterinsurgency operations.
Soon after the announcement, the U.S. Navy 
restricted travel between Clark and the Subic 
Bay naval station 50 miles to the west.
Reagan Names New 
High Court Nominee
WASHINGTON (DJ)  Douglas Ginsburg, 
a federal appeals court judge here, who was 
nominated for a seat on the Supreme Court by 
President Reagan, is a former Harvard Law 
School professor and has served in the Reagan 
administration as Chief of the Justice 
Departments antitrust division and as an
IM and ECONOMICS MAJORS
Applications are invited for membership : 
in the Student Advisory Committee to 
the departments of Industrial Management 
and Economics. Any majors in these 
departments who would like to serve 
should call Claudia Kirpatrick (x3512, 
GSIA Room 208) for an application form.
administrator of the Office of Management 
and Budget. He is an advocate of increased 
economic analysis in law to measure a variety 
of issues in cost benefit terms.
Reagan made the announcement in the East 
Room of the White House before a large audi
ence of administration officials and GOP 
congressional leaders signaling that he intends 
to take a high profile in pressing for 
Ginsburgs confirmation.
Its time for the Senate to show it will join 
with me to protect the independence of the 
judiciary, Reagan said in an apparent refer
ence to the campaign that defeated Bork.
Reagan praised Ginsburg as a highly re
garded member of the legal profession and a 
believer in judicial restraint.
Miami Investor Shoots 
Broker; Kills Self
MIAMI (UPI)  An old customer who 
apparently lost heavily in the stock market 
crash and opened fire in a Merrill Lynch office 
near here, killing one vice president and 
wounding another before turning the gun on 
himself, was identified as Arthur Kane, 53, of 
Kendall, police spokesman Alfredo HidalgoGato said.
In New York, Merrill Lynch Chairman Wil
liam A. Schreyer and President Daniel Tully 
said, We are deeply shocked and saddened to 
learn of this incident, and we extend our heart 
felt sympathies to all the families affected by 
this event.
Jose Argilagos, who was fatally shot, joined 
Merrill Lynch in 1961, and was named man
ager of the Falls office in 1977. He became a 
vice president in 1976.
Lloyd Kolokoff, the injured man, was hired 
in 1975 and became a Merrill Lynch vice 
president in 1986.
Jerry Bovenkamp, property manager for the 
Merrill Lynch building, said It appears that a 
man called up in the morning and asked for a 
meeting with his broker and the manager, 
Bovenkamp said. My security people tell me 
the man went into the managers office and 
then the shooting started.
The Merrill Lynch office is in a separate 
building at the Falls, a trendy shopping center 
about 12 miles southwest of Miami, well away 
from the main shopping area.
Senate Votes to Ban 
Smoking on Planes
WASHINGTON  The Senate voted to ban 
smoking on airline flights of 90 minutes or
less.
The smoking ban approved by the Senate 
would affect about 70% of domestic flights. It 
would be in effect for the next two years.
A House-Senate conference committee now 
will try to resolve the differences, but it is
almost certain that a smoking ban will emerge 
from Congress later this year. <
The issue is sure to continue to spark heavy 
lobbying. On one side are dozens of health and 
public-interest groups who cite studies by the 
U.S. Surgeon General and the National Acad
emy of Sciences showing that passive smok
ing  the involuntary inhalation of smoke by 
non-smokers  poses a health hazard.
On the other are tobacco-state senators who 
are worried about the economic health of thei 
farming constituents, who have organized an 
intense campaign to kill the smoking ban.
The House-passed airline consumer-protection bill doesnt have a similar provision on 
these types of testing, and some House aides 
said Thursday this difference could compli
cate a House-Senate conference on the bills.
U.S. Approves Merger 
Of USAir, Piedmont
WASHINGTON (DJ)The Department of 
Transportation has approved USAir Group 
Inc.s $1.56 billion acquisition of Piedmont 
Aviation Inc.
The departments decision rejects a recom
mendation in September by Administration 
Law Judge Ronnie Yoder, who urged that the 
merger not be allowed because of potentially 
anti-competitive consequences.
However, several members of Congress said 
that the merger should be approved because 
the department had previously approved 
mergers that posed much greater competition 
problems.
Officials Finish Probe 
Into Trolley Crash
PITTSBURGH  Investigators from the 
National Transportation Safety Board have 
ended a probe into the derailment of a Port 
Authority Trolley that lost its brakes inside the 
Mount Washington Transit Tunnel.
The crash, which occurred Wednesday, in
jured 37 people when the trolley smashed into 
an office building at Station Square.
A bus was sideswiped and a truck was struck 
from behind by the runaway trolley.
The investigators refused to release the de
tails of their findings.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
SHELTERS FOR THE HOMELESS
A presentation of Architectural Proposals 
sponsored by the Department of Architecture and 
the Pittsburgh Chapter of American Institute of 
Architects. Presentation to be followed 
by discussion.
Wednesday, November 4,1987 at 4:30 in 
Doherty Hall 1212.
Everyone Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage 3
Mid-Winter Short Term SuggestedQuality of Life Report Released
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter 
What started out as Carnegie Technical 
School, a regional institute for higher learn
ing, is now Carnegie Mellon University, 
recognized internationally as a leader in 
education and research. But the question of 
whether Carnegie Mellon can attain its goal 
of improving its academic standing without 
paying attention to other aspects of student 
life remains. In order to examine this in 
more depth, the University administration
of classes that could be offered are Earth
quakes and Buildings, Abortion: The Human 
Face of a Dilemma, Creativity, and Managing 
Nuclear Wastes.
In order to increase intellectual diversity, the 
report suggests more events be sponsored and 
additional methods be found to publicize 
events. Publicity could be improved with a 
system of TV monitors that would list the 
days activities by the hour (similar to an 
airport posting system). The Task Force sug
gested that freshmen and sophomores be reStudents often find out late about events 
that they would have attended.
30-
& 20~ 034>c<u8,10-
0-1 2 
Strongly disagreeStrongly agree
appointed a task force to study this Quality 
of Life issue. Its final report was recently 
made public.
The Task Force, comprised of more than 
70 students, faculty, administration, and 
staff, used the surveys completed by more 
than 400 undergraduate students earlier 
this semester as the basis for their studies. 
Paul Christiano, Professor and Head of the 
Civil Engineering Department and one of 
the chairmen in charge of the Task Force, 
summarized the report at the recent 
Whats New at Carnegie Mellon? lunch
eon, held on October 28. According to 
Christiano, this research allowed them to 
study a whole spectrum of issues, primarily 
quality of student life.
One of the conclusions that the committee 
arrived at was that general education 
should be improved. As noted in the re
port, Our students tend to channel them
selves towards career-oriented academic 
pursuits to the exclusion of fully appreciat
ing the individual or social importance of 
general education. The reason for this, of 
course, is time. To resolve the problem, the 
task force proposed a Mid-Winter Short 
Term, whereby a three-week session will 
be held between the fall and spring semes
ters. During this short term, a student would 
be offered the option of taking one course 
not required by his department. Examples
quired to participate in some of the activities.
Christiano states that more must be done to 
extend diversity of cultural and human re
sources. This includes encouraging students 
to attend graduate school. This message, ac
cording to the report, should be made clear to 
the students because we care about our fac
ulty and about their performance, Carnegie 
Mellon is a very good place to embark on an 
academic career.
The report also observes that students are 
inhibited from pursuing amateurish sort of 
activities because their pursuit of profession
alism makes amateurism seem counter-pro
ductive. The students...are driven by identification first, last, and foremost with ones 
major department and college and they do 
not naturally identify with a larger univer
sity community. Thus, while students fre
quently complain of having nothing to do, 
participation in university-wide social 
events has been poor. The Task Force 
offers ways to change this attitude among 
students,for example, by offering a Student 
Recognition Award for those who promote 
diverse interaction, and creating academic 
programs for such purposes.
The Task Force observed faults in the 
athletic and student services as well. They 
suggested that the athletic facilities be 
given more priority than they are presently 
given since nearly 40 percent of all stu
dents participate in intramural sports. The 
need for personal services, such as personal 
and career counseling, financial aid, tutor
ing, and health services, are also increas
ing, and must meet the demands. The pro
posed University Center should improve 
these inadequate services, according to the 
report.
A proposal to change the structure of the 
administration was also made. The task 
force believes that establishing a Student 
and Academic Affairs Board will improve 
the coordination between student and aca
demic affairs. The board would consist of 
representatives from Student Dormitory 
Council, Security, Student Senate, Dean of 
Student Affairs, and other organizations.
The administration recognizes that if at
titudes of alumni are correlated with their 
experiences as students, one can only infer 
that campus life has...been lacking in some 
ways. The problem is a long-standing one, 
apparently multi-faceted, and probably not 
amenable to an easy solution...However, 
the foregoing initiatives taken by the 
administration...will go a long way towards 
avoiding this problem with future genera
tions of alumni.
There are plenty of nice places to socialize on campus.
<D00034>C<L>a<uD.
30
20 -
10 -
1 2 
Strongly disagreeStrongly agree
Recommended Not To Launch
Pugwash Lecturer To Discuss Shuttle Disaster
* Election 88 News
Tartan Candidate Profile: 
Rev. Jesse Jackson
Second only to Undecided in the polls, the 
only returning player from the 1984 Presi
dential campaign is the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
In that campaign, Jackson was able to win 21 
percent of the popular vote in the Democratic 
primaries across the country.
Jackson was bom in 1941 in Greenville, 
South Carolina. His father lived next door to 
his mother, but was married to someone else. 
In 1943 his mother married Charles Jackson, 
who adopted Jesse when he was 16.
An excellent athlete, Jackson was quar
terback on a state championship team and 
> played basketball and baseball. He started 
college at the University of Illinois on a foot
ball scholarship, but left after a year to attend 
the North Carolina Agricultural and Technical 
State College in Greensboro.
In 1963 he became active in the campus civil 
rights organization. After graduating a year 
later, he received a scholarship to the Chicago 
Theological Seminary. He left there a semester short of graduation,when Martin Luther 
King Jr. asked him to head the Chicago branch 
of Operation Breadbasket.
His operation there was so successful that he 
was appointed national director the next year. 
Jackson was with King when he was assassi
nated in April 1968.
He remained with Kings organization for 
nearly three years, but left to form his own 
t organization, PUSH.
As a candidate in 1984, Jackson received 
considerable attention when he won the re
lease of a Navy pilot who had been shot down 
over central Lebanon and was held by Syria.
During the campaign, Jackson called for 
changes in Middle Eastern policy. He pro
posed a 20 percent cut in military spending and 
the removal of Pershing II and cruise missiles 
v from Western Europe.
Jackson has traveled widely in recent years. 
He has met Mikhail Gorbachev, toured Eu
rope, Africa, and Central America.
Religion: Baptist
Height: 62
Words which will conle back to haunt him: In 
1984, he called Jews Hymies, and referred 
to New York as Hymietown.
Mudge Repairs Restrict Access
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter
As part of an effort to increase security by the* Housing Office in the residence halls, Mudge House has been undergoing renovation to restrict access to its open courtyard.
The entire plan actually involves three 
smaller projects: enclosing the courtyard en
tirely by erecting a limestone wall between A 
and C wings and another between A and B 
wings, setting a metal stairway from C wing to 
the courtyard to allow direct access, and re* pairing a water leak problem in the passage
way underneath C wing. According to Oscar 
Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Services, the 
structural renovating gave it a chance to solve 
the water leak problem. Adding the water 
leak repairs raised the original cost of the 
project to $50,000.
Greg Maynes, the project architect for Car
negie Mellon supervising this plan, explains 
that the revamping started in late August, but 
during the move-in period, we suspended 
work to avoid interference. Last Wednesday, 
the workers of Cost Construction Co., the 
masonry contractors for this project, started to 
remove the stone in order to resolve the leak in 
the tunnel.
Maynes hopes to have the renovations com
pleted before the cold weather sets in, and 
m gave a tentative date of mid-November.
By JENNI SEVERA
Special to the Tartan 
On Tuesday, November 10, Roger M. Boisjoly, a member of the Morton-Thiokol engi
neering team who warned NASA not to launch 
the Challenger, will be giving a Student 
Pugwash lecture entitled, Ethical Deci
sionsMorton-Thiokol and the Space Shuttle 
Challenger Disaster.
This lecture will deal with the events and 
unethical conduct that led to the decision to 
launch the Challenger on January 28, 1986.
To briefly recap, a team of Morton-Thiokol 
engineers, of which Boisjoly was a member, 
discovered an erosion in a secondary O-ring 
which could mean disaster if the shuttle were 
launched. Consequently, Boisjoly and Allan
McDonald, director of the team, repeatedly 
objected to the Challenger launch. In a memo 
to R.K. Lund, Vice President of Engineering at 
Morton-Thiokol, Boisjoly specifically stated 
that to launch was to risk catastrophe of the 
highest orderloss of human life. After 
several attempts, they were finally told that the 
launching was not their concern.
Because of his stand against the conduct of 
Morton-Thiokol, Boisjoly was fired from the 
corporation. He is presently involved in a 
lawsuit against both the corporation and 
NASA.
Boisjoly was invited to speak by Dr. Indira 
Nair, associate department head of the depart
ment of Engineering and Public Policy here at 
Carnegie Mellon and a Student Pugwash
advisor. Dr. Nair is also one professor of the 
new freshman CIT course, Technology and 
People. A required course, Technology and 
People was designed to give engineering stu
dents a more humanistic look at the techno
logical career theyve chosen. Nairs unit 
deals with ethics in technology and has the 
specific theme of the shuttle disaster. There
fore. Boisjoly was invited to speak for the 
November 9 Technology and People lecture, 
in addition to the November 10 lecture open to 
the general Carnegie Mellon public.
Boisjolys November 10 talk will begin at 10 
am in the Wherrett Room and is sponsored by 
the Carnegie Mellon Student Pugwash, an 
organization which promotes the discussion 
of ethical issues of science and technology.

---------------------------------------------------

Philosophy Department Course Offerings! 
Spring 1
COURSE. Philosophical Methods end Morels (80-100)
TIME MWF 0 30-9 20LOCATION OH 2210NSTRUCTOR Clark Giymour
COURSE OESCRPTONPhilosophy unifies the sciences. arts, and humanities Philosophy has yvon b*th lo many of *e sciences and ha* formod much of our moral perspective This course w*ll introduce students to philosophical thinking. and writ survey tha contributions that 20th Century philosophy has made to science and to our understanding of ethics and the arts Several contemporary philosophical problems writ be posed in the course.
This is an introductory course that presupposes no previous bac*<grojnd " philosophy Bnef quizzes based on reading and lectures wn be given each week and will determine final grade
TIMELOCATIONINSTRUCTOR
Knowledge end Velues (80-201)
TTh 11 30-12 50 PH 126A Erme Alleva
Philosophical Methods & Morals 
Knowledge and Values 
Introduction to Logic 
Introduction to Logic 
Ethical Theory
Philos. Problems of Individual Liberty: 
Sex, Drugs, Rock *n Roll & Seatbelts 
Introduction to Ancient Philos. 
Aesthetics
Introduction to Linguistics Analysis 
Logic & Artificial Intelligence 
Topics in Philos, of Science 
Advanced Aesthetics 
Semantics
Approaches to Language LeaTi ability 
Artificial Intelligence in Medicine 
Special Topics: Women & Inquiry:
Values, Science & Society
80-100 
80-201 
80-210A 
80-210B 
80-230
80-237
80-251
80-260
80-280
80-311
80-321
80-360
80-383
80-384
80-385
80-390
Measurement in the Sciences
Logic & Computability II 
Introduction to Computational 
Linguistics
Natural Language Processing II 
Issues in Syntactic Theory 
Unification-based Grammar 
Issues in Syntactic Theory: 
Recoverability and Locality 
Philos, of Science & Economic
Causal Modeling 
Science & Subjectivity 
Seminar in the Foundations 
of Statistics
Pragmatics - cross registered at Pitt
80-392/
80-792
80-410
80-480
80-482
80-581A
80-581B
80-591/
80-891
80-710
80-770
80-892/
36-852
80-386
a r
COURSE DESCRFTIONWhat are values What sort of things have, produce or care about values'7 Are values subjective or objective? Are they relative or absolute? What is the relationship between facts and values? Is there a clear or tenable distinction between facts and values? What connection, if any. is there between values and certain emotions or an tudes? Can we reason about value Are there rational grounds for accepting or rejecting particular values or value judgements Is value change rational, irrational or arational? Can there be intellectually  respectabie theories of value, that is normative or evaluative theoriesHow might such theories be similar to or different from theories in other areas of inquiry, for example, those in the natural and social sciences, or m log and mathematics? Why are values and inquiries about.values important m our hves? Why do we care about such things? Is it possfcle not lo care about values? What would kve without values or caring about values be like? This course wifi address the nature and importance of values and alternative accounts of evaluative or normative reasoning PREREQUISITES none
COURSEIntroduction to Logic (80-210 section A)
TIME TBALOCATION TBAINSTRUCTOR Kevin KeBy
COURSE DESCRPTONThis course * taught by a computer program. The terminal serves as instructor, textbook. and grader Hence the course * essentiafiy self-paced with mmmaUy restrictive deadlines at several pom is m the term There wd be two or three help sessions scheduled each week, during which help lor difficult problems may be obtained The (mat grade w* be based on how far you gel m the curriculum Snce you cannot proceed untt you get a problem exactly nght. k you f**sh the course you automateaiy gel an A grade
There we* be en organiamone! meeting si a tto be announced when the room s scheduled
CXXUSE Introduction lo Logic (80 210 secl.on 8)
TIME TTh *0 00-11 20LOCATION 5206INSTRUCTOR Lesfce B-itho^e. COEC
COURSE DESCRPTON
This course  an introducto* to both Reco and Prolog programme These two *mgs fit **c logorar because Prolog * mtended to enable one to program *n iog< and because Prolog * an especially good language * wheh to get a compj^r tc do many of tNngs logoans do Among other topes, the course wil! exam.-* programs that automateaHy ;'a~sate natural language mto logeai adages and programs that automatically convrud proofs m loge H there  fme me course w* also look si Prolog as a 'angusgs * whch to write expen sys'e'* a-*d at expen sgdtems *s exarrpies of ormai logeai systems The course wit: use many dirent computer packages some on Andrew, some on IBM-PC s a*^ some on Maontoshes PREREQUISITES none
TIMELOCATONINSTRUCTOR
Ethical Theory (00 230,
l**f 1230 BH 131BJames Woodward
COURSE DESCRPTONThis course is designed as a broad introduction to linguistics, and as such will strive to introduce the student to (1 ) the principal components of linguistic analysis. (2) the major concepts and theories of modern work m linguistes. (3) various methodologies used m defining and solving problems within the domain of linguistes, and (4) a sampling of topes representing the scope of the field The principal components of linguist analysis to be discussed include phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, and praomaies. These will be presented both m isolation, as independent phenomena, and m a series of more encompassing contexts, from the level of words and clauses to the level of utterances m discourse, emphasizing their interdependence Examples will be taken from EngWsh and many other languages The topics that will be discussed include language acquisition, relatons between language and thought, the biological bases of human language, and animal systems of communeation.
COURSE Logic end Artificial Intelligence (80-311)
TIME TTh t 30-2 50LOCATION PH 126ANSTRUCTOR Kevin Key
COURSE OESCRPTONIn arffeial intelligence programming. one frequently encounters questions conorrvng the representaton. acquisition, and useofbetofs Tt* purpose of the course to exansne some of these questions from a togeal port of vew Theory helps us to datingutsh some good 4eas xi A. I. from fciff. and hard problems from easy ones Moreover, togeal theory helps us to locate diffeurt problems we n*ght nave missed, to generai-ze problems we have soVed. and to explain why some success** programs are as successful as they a* We beg* wth a general decueswn of nducwe vs defective inference Then we cons4er some phrtosepheal theones for evaluating inductive inferences Next, we analyze several famous AL *learr*ng* systems. >nctudng Hunt's concept eammg system. Oendral and Meta-Oendra!. lyfceheWs version space* system tor learning cafcufcs. and programs for explanation based >esm^g *
We w* also exam* Gold's theory of densficason m the km* as a theoeteai frame wo* lor fte evaluation of mduckve rterence procedures The framework tor grammatical inference wd be generalized* several ways to apply to the xderence of iogeal meorws We exam*e *e concept of computatenai complexity, and compare the respective compioxikos of fie systems of Pao and Angh*n for tnfemng mrfwnal fheones about regular sets. The complexi>es of these algorithms wd be assessed Next, we examine Ehud Shapiro's 'model rionce system*, wheh can irdor large classes of PROLOG programs (represented as logical theories) from examples of tfteir intended performance. We w* prove some complexity results wtkch are of relevance to die systems of Shapiro and It/fitchoN. Fmaly. we cons4er standard philosophical objections to the leasfeikty of mechaneal inductive inference thel are founded on the dam that computers cannot 'invent theoretical terms."
COURSE DESCRPTON:This course is designed as an in-depth introduction to the field of artifeial intelligence in medicine. It will be composed of two distinct parts: a selective survey of the field and a case study.
First a study of the main AIM research projects undertaken during the past decade will illustrate how different Al techniques have been used to implement systems solving a variety a medical problems. Second, a specific medical problem will be analyzed in detail and an Al system to assist clinicians in solving this problem will be designed (but not implemented).
The principal AIM techniques to be discussed include medical knowledge representation, abduction, dinical inference, management of uncertainty, medical causal (pathophysiological) modeling, medeai knowledge engineering and acquisition.
The topes that win be explored include medical problem solving: medical expert systems; interfaces: evaluation and validation of medeai consultation programs; maintenance: special social, legal and economic issues in medical informatics.
READINGS: B.G Buchanan ft EH. Shortkfle. |
n MYf.H Fmrifwm wmon-wfitf. 9*4.
P. Szotovits. (Ed) /CO: WMMPm. 1M2.
Oh readings wd be MM s* dass
Specie! Topics: Women end In^uiryt VeJuee, Science ft Society (t0-390)
some foundational concepts (tho linguistic sign, tho rotational theory ol moaning), we thon develop ttio formalism of foaturo structures and associated notions (subsumption, unification, (aaturo structure typos). In the remainder of tie course, we examine a wide range of topics in syntax (and. to a lessor degree, semantics) within tie framework of head-dnven phrase structure grammar (HPSG), a unifcation-based grammar theory wheh attempts to synthesize reeults from several linguistic research traditions (categorial) grammar.
Isauee In Syntetk Theory (80-581 section B) Rocoverebimy end Locollty
TIME:LOCATIONNSTRUCTOR
MF 2 30-3:50 SH 324Robin Clary
COURSE DESCRPTON
A survey of recent wont on the recoverabiitv of oroty categones and syntacte locality cood*ons on rocover*ty Thecorse md review work on the Empty Category Pnnopie from its original (ormutation to the *bamors* framework of Chomsky ( l M6) Ve wd also coneder alternatives such as 'generalized binding' (Aoun. IMS: 1MC). and connectedness (Kayno. 19M). WewMoav partcula/ anenoon to hoed m ------- '
" Vert) second-phenomena
TMELOCA TOM USTRUCTOR
Fndoy 100-4 *dameonhng. BakorHeK OanHauaman
n*LOCATIONNSTWXTOR
TTH 230-140 BHI31A
IFCRep 0EScw>n0NThe*
COURSE DESCWTKM:
.j ------ ----  -   Ww * wwwumir nenWalimeii econome ipotv m m 
eery wd be pioii^poeed. ten tie course  tafcolor granad no stati
iwbeconerderod are
way such that tioy lavor male any* of understandmg and acting? Aid they used to provide subtle (or not so subtle) rationalizations of mala beliefs, preferences snd interests? Oo pifliculir theories or metKXli of inquiry perpetuate the domination of women by men in society?
In recent years femirsst scholars have challenged wdely held views m many areas of inteiectuaJ vtquiry on the grounds that
IWNr Whdl  etd tww. end I* al *acwn . "*"* 'WwweidMlw. and diallele do twy conomes wo* eMh models much maid tian wah twones  ixodeis and ltd aid tie reiaied to heonee?
*"HI Wo a locus an tour.
COURSE 06 SCRPTON
An examtfiaton of several cixrontly twj.ru views about how *o deode whether vano^s aaions aid sooai poioes are morally r^ht or wrong Wa wd locus on ir^ee gone-al approaches contractarianism u:..4aransm and natural nghts theor*s We w. examine whai these approaches have to loll US about tie nature of morality, how wet they cohere wrth current Knowledge *i tie soc and bohaveral sciences and what their vacations are ^ social and morel problems such as poverty and inequality. Hieallocation of scarce medial resources and ns assessment and the control of pt*utitxi
COURSE Topics In Sociel end Pehtlcel PhHoeophy: Probtomso< tndlvlduel Liberty: Sex. Drugs, Rock n RoH end Soetbeas (SO237)
TIME W t 30 4 00LOCATION HH 1318PfSlFMCTOR Errvo Alwva
COURSE OESCRPTION
A cantrai problem ol modem poMcaf theory has boon the id (usMcatxm ol a protected domavi of .ndnnduai kbeny on by soca^r or tie state ought to bo proNMed Are mere certain tunds oi actwees #iat ought to be permrtted -ega-awss ol the actual or potential harm to those who voluntar4y partEeaM i them, or regardless o' the offensnroness or percent ndecony of such act.vitws lo others' Or can such acMraos bo mstAab* rostncted or prohOMd tor paternal*!* easons t tor tie ndjtfs own good) or tor reasons involving appeals to o^s-reness ndecenc, degradation or wsu Mi respect to oeier Issues to be ociAsed wa be soiecied f-om tie toNowmg socaftotTmtamto- to g prostitution cenan kinds of sexual behavior gambkr^ drug sale/use 
*****!* * po'9f4phc maMnals OK ) mandatory soabatt legakon palemalm ^ medca! and occupason* hw. and utoty core,, problem, contemn, 
f^e^h vkskcp^onMcn,,,., recent debates about pontoorashv rac*t and sexist Mirui.song lyncs >eh are sdiuady expkex or about drug use.
ate ivasansoi privacy and idgafrostnckons on siaode and voluraaryeutianasia among
PREREQLWSiTES. nono
COURSE Topics kl Phioeophy of Science (80-321)
TIME: MWF 30-320LOCATION BH 229BNSTRUCTOR-. James Woodward
COURSE 0ESCPTI0N:An oaptorakon ol a number of issues having to do with causation and explanaron m aoonce. We wil consider questions Bte the fofowing: Does soencd moroty tty to desertas tho world or does  also try to explain *? What is the ddtoronce between explanation and mere descripbofl anyway? Is The tact 1aa tioory eaome lo expiam twigs wol ever a good reason tar beieving that il ta trueAre there some general features whch al good explanations in the various soencaa have in common? What do wo moan when wo say that one event or process caused another Is tvs fust a manor of the two events being correlated, or occunng together regularly or is
evalale some ol tie daims involved in such chatenger We wil begei w*i an overview o> some el tie major pMoaopfkcal tarsiers n the Western iredtton on tie subject of women: tieir naMo. tied moral and politeli sums, tieir proper rslabonship lo men. etc.. and take a look at lerrwusl commontanes regarding come ol tieee tankers Nest wo wd consider two aides oI cordsmporary tasssrch and theory wie-e sei gender tat has been alleged and cntcized first work by psychologists and philosophers on ths nature oI morality and moral reasortng and second, work by scwntists and phriosophdrs of scidnce on the nature of scintile method and on particular scientifc theories (e g m bnHogy and the social soences)Fmaly. wo wd examine proposals prackcal and mopn. for Changing vnetectuai inqury. and the broader social context n whch 
* occurs, so as to reduce or ekmmste such bases
PREREQUISITES noneThis coursa fuMds one of the course requnments tor tie *Seff snd Otiers' sequenceCulture and Arts cluster of HISS
Meesuremenl In the Science (80-392 Undergraduate 80-792 Graduate)
contanui+ttdappraM or trababan ol medals or tioorws.-n Skart Mrs. Kan Popper^. Udon Frwdmant. wid Imre Ld^a.' mg a of tie less ttondtopi i atamanes.
 causal noaona hashed slargo role "ha**W of economatkj. Are lc~s*models? MPia:commdmonts
: eftons to glean causal mtormakon from
I NermeCtoe: Badi prackcal and pixel) cs are hoevSy drnmn by tie peee&o .. Ve< conomats hoi boon tmcomtoiat tie rtia ol eornia aooal tioonaft and havo aitenned to aaoaratepoadwe work aa aharpty aa poaaXe and lo laich on to purponedN ikinrnfctamakL imi* rirr** as rit.Mlatu wxt affjrieix o
phdosophy of aoenco and acononK medioduluuy rtttttttt
wamei Mausman. Ths Phdoeophy of Economes: An Amhoidogy (Can^ndge. 1 MS)
i the Language.
knowledge of soentife laws, as some phiiosophers have daimed? These and relatad tssuee w be explored by readmg contrbubons from both sdentists and phiosophers, with iots of attention to realiste exampies drawn from bodt the natural and social sciences. c
BOOKS Hempei. CariSaimn. Wesiey frffltnflff. Pm>inft>fln U M CiUlil SffliCtM^ 0( the World
COURSE Advenced Aeethetlce (80-360)
TIME TTh 100-220LOCATION DH 2105NSTRUCTOR Dave Carrier
COURSE DESCRFTION:This course deals with s interest vt Vie theory of literature and painting. Th semester. the first half of the class wifi cnteaHy evaluate the influential theories of the literary critic. Fredric Jamesons. Aftsr doing a dose readtftg of he Ibafl|0KjLUaGOOaBQUfc we w* test his twones by I them to one tradilionar novel, one moderrest wodL and several
LOCATIONWSTRUCTOR
TTH 10 30-12 00 Noon BH 231A Teddy SeOonleid
TME M 3 30-530LOCATON; PH 12SCNSTRUCTOR: Pdlaf Sprtaa and Richard Schaaiea
COURSE 0ESCRPTON
COURSE 0ESCRFTCNThis is ihtended es an iraroduckon to tie theory of measurement How are units chosen Under what coraMons do
mmtgsm iheorws ol estensive meaauremeni. wdh and wahout error Appkcaaona wd be Man from tie natural and social
Pnmdry Text: Theory and Measurement, by H E Kyburg. Jr Cambndge Cambndge Umnersrty Press. 1984
Rejnments Students wd amis Iwo term papers on topes chosen 1
used lo dolermele causal structuro in none^arimemal settings, and a new WhrsquetW we have locdnty developed. The lechnques are ^pic^to to a das d models known in the social sciences as structuralequation models. This dass ol models indudee as special casos factor analytic modale, pati analyte models, regressor models. mMpto indicator modale, end otiers. Altiough we wd examine teundaional sues we w stress -hands on' uee of theee lanttaive lechrsquee and show how 10 use a number ol computer aids such as USREL (or EOS) and TETRAD. The lopeswo plan to cover nclude structural equakon models. distrt>u*on and estimation
tioory. model evetoakon. graph theory and Ha relation to structural equation modale, chedig tar linaanty. variable tanstormatione. and spocilcalion searches PREREOUSITES: Al loaat one coma in suMice la highly recommended
end Sobjecttvty (80-770)
LOCATONNSTRUCTOR
MW 10 30-11 SO SH 208
COURSE OESCRPTON
Nakjral soencae began m Greece m tie sixth century S.C.. efion a nuntoer ol tsnkors 1 irrnn Ir tyietarint ehms tie nekxal world <i tarma ol base toakras ol tiat world see PtHoeophy began soon thetoaftar. whan Parmervdes prassnted. 1 tie tom of a poem a rigorous argument wtach catad tie very pooetaMy ol natural acance ntoquaskon From tul port on. physcal theory had to be pxned wth arguments (uattymg tie vakdey ol such tiaonzng Ourtrsllaak
wd be 10 come 10 gnpe wi tie argvnents el Parmersdee wd hie br*antstudsm Zeno whch chstenged tie eoaetoWy knnwlsdgs ol tie neturel world *< Wd tien look et tie enempts d tie Pw-Socrakc neural ptvlooopTws such a, *"sagorss and tid atom OamocrM to carry on tie project ol natural eoenca whda detontiig  veMty egemst the Permeradaen attack Finely, wo w look
1 tie radcety dHtomm reeponeea to Parmenetoe by tie two giema of Classical
contemporary works, texts which have not yet been much diecussed by toorarycntcs. Our aim  to understand alternative theoretical approaches by rtomonitratioQ how tey yield cHflerinQ intense! sliore of individuel works. The diecussion of peinfcng in the second haM of the course wa locus on two seventeen figures who worked in Rome. Csravagg end Poussin. After summarizing the existing
LOCATIONNSTRUCTOR
TTH 1130-12 50 PH 20 Kevin Kefiy
COURSE OESCRPTONThis course is a but may be taken ndependendycontinuation of Loge and Computab*ty I.
BOOKS Jonathan Bamee. jfeLSttJ3lriBM0te Penque 0-74-0-44461 -0 G MA Gofce. Plan fnm fmrwi Hacke 0-fl 5145-22 7 {Oxford 0-19-2S011S-S
an sts of their t.me and to the baroque an then dominant m Rome Qjr primary concern wrk be to understand methodo*ogeai p'opiems rased by conflet.ng .mep^utons of the^ an Usmg sl<de lectures, we wrf! contrast formalist app'oacnes to thotr won with eonog'aphe stud^s. and recent arempts to p'owde a soco<ogeai ana'ys>s of their an An orgmai theory of Poussm's an wrf1 tentatively be proposed Undergraduates are required to do two shon papers and three exams a*e required The assignments for graduate students will be arranged n consumaron wh the xistnetor There s no final
PREREQUISITES Aesthesscs or pe'nvsser of the instructor Thecou'se does 'Dt assume sny prer knowledge of these topes, but *t does demand a consde<at>e amount of 'eedmg
TIMELOCATIONNSTRUCTOR
In the course, we begin with a quick review of recursive function theory Then we proceed wrth a formal deimeon of truth for ^^^^W^^jyfcrei-orderlanguages Weprove *e completeness and consistency theorems lor the proof system The completeness theorems w* yve nee to s decussen of elementary model theory and s computatene relevance Nexi. we consider the definition of productive* sets and prove GoedeTs ^completeness theorem lor enthmetc After tm. we exsrrww Herbrand-s theorem and as appfceaeons tdreeokison theorem provxig Throughout to course, the relevance of logeai ideas to
TIME Th 2 30-530LOCATON; PH 126CNSTRUCTOR; dark Gtymour ft Kadane
COURSE 0ESCRPT10N;This seminar, which wifi be taught by a scientific resist id s subjective Bayesian, wfl consider whet is meant by the subjectivity* or "obfsclwily* of sdeniftc daime. We wifi consider  they ehee in ststietics. social sder l How, H al al, cat "objective* andletadetodor advantage ol a method or a eonduaen tiet it ie subiectrve? Do the eooel soencee have epeddl probleme sbout eubjectMty tiet are not shared by tie natural edenoea? Sudanis a eubnst one short peper by fnd-tormwNdiwa bo cnidied but not graded. Thoywitatoo be fdquired to eubmt an ouCna ol a Inal peper end e *nal paper
PREREQUISITES One course XI llao tkct and at leael junior rtamkng orparmMon ol tie neaucsor a eenee of humor a atongly recommended.
im 1 00-223 PH I2SB Carr Pofad
LOCATIONNSTRUCTOR
>(280) 
TTh 11:30-1230
COURSE DESCRPnON
What (Noeopracel problems ere raieed by tie ans Tinntroducaon to aaetioocs answers kn w^afcrui -----
Iheonee of parting and leeretur. Our tsoassn of twortos wd ways be beckod i by examples Wo wd kH* si skdea of wauel enworka and tw pepar anmonts wd roquas mueoum meas And we wd reed eews novele Baginrvng wtfi E H Gtntoncfi's cteaae An ann thm^yi we sx8 conatoar tidonas of tie Keiory end ndiura of iwhnkeac en We shat tun turr to enaunts of modarrsetan peymg peracuier stwneen te tiaonae el ataoact pemang The krai hat of tie courao coneiudee wah an eneMa <* tie pMoaaptscel probleme leeed by tan Tha eocountof leerakrt opone wsh t
COURSE OESCRPTON
Linguiste tomantes is concerned wrth tie re alKX^hp between expressions of neiurei lenguege end me* rraanmgs m 1*1 rtroAjclory course aa begin by cons4sring diterors notions of rnoervng ireferont ei peycnotogeei contextuel) and verous soma-.ie proposes of end reletions bsiween expressions mclu*ng ruth tautology snd com-edeion omerfment pe-ephrase end eynonymy appropr eieness enome>y end praaupposnan enbg^y ant vegueness We men turn to a defied exemmetion of Montaque s mode: to-ei< methods, focusing upon ru e-e>yss of quentifeekon. ntensione<>y end enephore Oependmg on wna and class .morosi further lopes wt be so ec'ed from emong ta tofOwing logeai form, sluetion smenles discourse reoresemakons end dyneme mtorpretatan somantes of grammar formal vs
PREREQUISITES Syntax 180 382) and Loge (80310) or permission ol mstructo'
CORSE Introduction lo Computet tonel Llngubtko (80-480)
TIME: TTH 200320LOCATON: BH 2378NSTRUCTOR: Lan Lawn
COURSE OESCRFTON:Tha couree a about computar ayawme which procaaa natural languege. esnoanoeng on baa* achnquae dl persing Than
TME: TTh 1002:30LOCATON BH 231ANSTRUCTOR: Teddy SaidardaW
sofiwsre Knoviltdge ol piogremming a not roqured, but students cdh chooee 10 wrae programa as pan ol the term prefecto
PREREQUISITES (I) Uiguekcs 177 or 277 (2) f (3) There mi be ihr., o. lour protects end problem eelsW
COURSE
TBC TTH 2:30-340LOCATON BH 2298NSTRUCTOR Dowd Evena. Jema Carbone!
Approochoo le Lenguege LeomobMRy (80 384)COURSE OESCRTTONAdvenced cTIMELOCATONNSTRUCTOR
MF 11 30-12 50 SM 220 Robin Clark
 for students who wifi bs pursuing
PREREQUISITES Netural Proceesmg I or
p'esjopoee^*ees to CFA stuoe^ts out w to'*-vant
y r* ^owed^ of pa^- ng ^ , teXTe of spe<ceseao e to orn#f siudems wrth no p'or
EREOUtSiTCS none
COURSE DE SCRd>TON
A survey of some current formel approaches to the ecqu s-tion of syntax The course wilt cover the won summarized m
We-wr 6 Cuieover d90) P^ker (1964 j and Berw<ii (t9d5) Wems i^er cons^er deveep^enrs ^ perameter.zed models & gremmerThe last pan of the course wrff consider the relationship betweenparsing end *earn*t>if*y
lee uee In Syntetlc Theory (80581 section A)
TIMELOCATONNSTRUCTOR
10301150 SH 224 CartPofiard
Introduction to Unfutetlc Aneiyeie .00 280)00UR6E
LOCATONNSTRUCTOR
Artificiel
k*V 1 30 2 50 PH 1266David Event
COURSE DESCRFTONThe coursewrtl provide en m-depth ntroduction ti
syntactic and semanteand datatype tteory to analyze the structure of natural lenguege Beginning 
There are no specific requirements 1er tes course But some of tie melensi wrtl be techncal. snd it w be seeumed that students snrofied in the course wd have hod experience nt eoi IhooroScol spproech to lenguege Couree requeemems con be Mtted. el fite studenti opM et erther of two weys (1 ) by wnsng s peper . no more dien 25 p^ee. due et tw end of twterm, or (2) by tekmg s wneen final exam

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage 5
Security Sponsors Pumpkin Pete
photo by Eric W. Leuliette
Pumpkin Pete raps and breaks at the Child Care Center last Tuesday.
Crime and Incident Report: 10/24 to 10/30
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Last Tuesday Pumpkin Pete visited 
Carnegie Mellons Child Care Center to 
teach children Halloween safety tips.
The visit was arranged by Sgt. F. Russ of 
Campus Police, who contacted Lourdes 
Karas of the Kingsley Center, a service 
organization in the Pittsburgh area.
Pumpkin Pete is part of the Halloween 
program that we have. He goes to schools in 
October with a policeman, explained 
Karas, who is in charge of crime prevention 
and safety education for the Kingsley Cen
ter.
This is the third year that Pumpkin Pete 
has visited schools. The program is de
signed to present safety tips in a fun setting, 
rather than as a negative message. Pete
dances to a rap as children learn how to stay 
safe on Halloween.
The centers director, Dr. Marsha Poster, 
called the program a good way to intro
duce a safety tip to the pre-school popula
tion on campus. Sgt. Russ stressed that 
the kids are really enjoying it.
The Carnegie Mellon Child Care Center, 
located in the basement of Morewood 
Gardens, was started in September 1971. It
serves 100 children as an accredited pre
school. Carnegie Mellon staff and students 
have first priority in enrolling children. 
The cost is $420 per month for full-time, 
but University affiliated parents receive a 
25 percent discount.
The Kingsley Center, a non-profit organi
zation, was founded in 1893 as a service 
organization for children and families.
10/24 DISORDERY CONDUCT 2:44 am 
Officer observed two males from Sigma Nu 
placing obstacles on Morewood Avenue and 
covering them with a pizza box. The individu
als were stopped and found to have covered a 
Belgium Block. Also found an additional 
block inside an empty beer case. State cita
tions were issued to both brothers.
10/24 BURGLARY 6:49 pm Student in 
Tudor apartments called Security after having 
seen intruder leave by a window after breaking 
into the room. Student had been lying down 
when he heard noises in living room and went 
to investigate. Nothing burgled.
10/25 BURGLARY 1:25 pm In Skibo. Loss 
of Nikon camera, motor drive 12, 135mm 
Sigma lens, 50 mm Nikon Series. Total value: 
$940
10/25 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 2:55 pm 
Officer stopped by person who reported ob
serving three males breaking into parking 
meters on Dithridge Street. Upon investiga
tion, stopped males on 4000 block of Forbes 
carrying a No Parking Anytime sign, includ
ing pole. Meters were found to be intact. Ac
tors strongly advised to stay off CMU prop
erty.
10/26 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 8:16 pm 
Student reported attempt by intruder to enter 
Marybelle Apartment through first floor win
dow. Student was lying on bed when she heard 
a noise. She then called out roommates name 
and intruder abruptly left the area. No descrip
tion available.
10/27 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 12:05 am 
At the Doherty Apartments parking lot: per
sons unknown attempted to steal 1983 Pontiac 
TransAm. Car found with passenger door ajar, 
part of the ignition removed, and dome light 
dismantled.
10/27 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 12:26 
am CMU police observed fight involving DU 
and Pika brothers. One DU brother sustained a
cut lip. Upon investigation, brothers attributed 
fighting to egg throwing incidents involving 
both fraternity house porches.
10/27 SPECIAL 3:53 am Underage drink
ing: Officer observed two Pitt students imbib
ing a can of beer. Issued citations for U.A.D.
10/27 THEFT 8:52 am Persons unknown 
removed a Sears Craftsman router and 3/4" by 
3/4" carbide bit from the SEI building valued 
at approx. $200.
10/27 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 4:20 pm At 
Tudor apartments, a white male with dark 
complexion, black, short cropped hair, ap
prox. 6' 0 in height, wearing a brown jacket, 
white shirt, and dark trousers tried to break 
into apartment below complaintants. She 
heard glass break and actor ran.
10/28 THEFT 10:31 am Persons unknown 
removed dark brown leather jacket from DU 
valued at $100.
10/28 THEFT 5:06 pm Persons unknown 
extricated tan wallet from bottom desk drawer 
in Mellon Institute. Loss of drivers license 
and credit cards.
10/28 SPECIAL Hearing for Michael 
Ruben, who last week burglarized the Schenley Park Golf Club. Held for court.
10/29 HARRASSMENT BY COMMUNI
CATION 2:37 am Several Clyde Street stu
dents received harassing phone calls and hang 
ups. Numerous notes left on students doors.
10/29 THEFT 6:45 pm While student was 
playing football on the I.M. field lost 18 karat 
gold, 26" rope chain and medallion. Stolen 
from the sidelines. Cash value: $500.
10/30 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 2:20 
am Sgt. observed group of males in front of 
Hess Exxon. Upon further investigation 
found plants and shrubbery ripped out and 
strewn about. Caught 1 CMU and 2 Pitt stu
dents. Father of the CMU student contacted. 
Pitt Police contacted for Pitt students. Charges 
may be pressed.
SPRING SEMESTER ADVANCE REGISTRATION
Advance Registration for the Spring 1988 Semester will be on Wednesday and Thursday, November 11 and 12,1987. 
All students, undergraduate and graduate, are expected to register on these days if they wish to enroll at CMU this 
spring, except for CIT/MCS freshmen, who have received separate instructions. If you wont be returning for reasons 
other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal/Leave of Absence Form, clearly marked "Spring 1988", with your 
department. If you are unable to register November 11 or 12 (i.e. you're studying off-campus), ask your advisor to 
process your registration, or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
The Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1988 will be available November 2 at the Skibo Information Desk and 
inside Baker Kail's main entrance. The schedule contains next semester's course offerings, instructors, times, and 
rooms, as well as complete registration and enrollment information. Please obtain a copy, and carefully read and 
follow its instructions.
A single registration form, the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D), will be used for registration. Your 
R3D is available in your department office (in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center at BH 161 for H&SS freshmen and 
sophomores) and should be used to update demographic information and to list your Spring Semester schedule for 
advisor approval.
***** Advance Registration Instructions *****
1. Pick up your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
2. Pick up a Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1988 at the Skibo Information Desk or inside Baker Hall's main en
trance on or after November 2.
3. Plan a schedule with alternatives, and meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. You cannot register 
until you have received advisor approval. Many advisors will extend office hours during advance registration but 
contact yours for specific approval information.
4. On Wednesday and Thursday, November 11 and 12, between 9:30 am and 4:00 pm, go to each department teach
ing a course(s) you wish to register for to obtain registration approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D to your department. Even if you don't get all approvals, turn your R3D 
in anyway; you can try to add an unapproved course in January.
If you need further information or assistance, contact your department or the Registrar's Office, 268-2004.
November 11 and 12

---------------------------------------------------

After Four Years 
In The Classroom,
I Was Ready To Build 
Computer Systems.
After Two Years 
At Data General,
I Have.
Ask the college graduates who have 
chosen Data General and theyll 
tell you their careers happened 
fast. We put real work on your 
desk and advanced tools in your 
hands. Youll be part of a small 
team. Working on big projects. 
Learning from leaders, not books.
At Data General, we are very 
busy designing the best products 
in the computer business. Porta
bles and superminis. Industry 
standard UNIX" and fiber optic 
WANs. State-of-the-art products 
you can put your name on.
Look For Us On Your Campus
Ready to stop thinking about 
it and start doing it? Talk to a Data 
General representative about 
opportunities in these areas:
 CPU Design
 Operating Systems
 Communications
 Office Automation
 Software Support
 Language Development
 Technical Workstations
 Terminals and PCs
 Mass Storage Engineering
Look for our sign-up sheet in 
your placement office. Or write to 
Data General, Corporate College 
Relations, 4400 Computer Drive, 
Westboro, Massachusetts 01580.
Investing in people to make equal 
opportunity a reality.
i w DataGeneral
Careers a Generation ahead.

---------------------------------------------------

continued from page 1
used by that agent in crimes against humanity. 
Since anyone working for the SEI knows that 
many of their products will eventually be used 
in crimes against humanity, therefore CMU 
has a moral duty not to manage the SEI, and 
their employees have a moral responsibility 
not to work for the SEI. B)Because of its 
educational role, CMU has a duty to publicly 
display the kind of moral reflection that every 
individual has a responsibility to undertake 
before making important decisions that affect 
others. CMU did not publicly display any 
moral reflection in accepting its contract to 
manage the SEI, and therefore, CMU deserves 
moral censure for failing in its special obliga
tion as an educational institution.
After Presslers opening argument, Larry 
Druffel followed up with his own view of what 
the specific purposes of the SEI are and then 
refuted claims made in Presslers arguments 
that CMU was morally censurable and was 
managing the SEI in an irresponsible manner.
Senate Warned 
About Stolen 
Milk Crates
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Staffer iter
The Student Dormitory Council in
formed Student Senate that representa
tives of Pittsburgh dairy companies will 
be coming to campus to check and see if 
any students have stolen their milk 
crates. Such offenders could be facing 
a $300 fine and a jail sentence. Students 
with stolen milk crates have until Dec.
6 to return them without facing the 
penalties.
According to SDC, however, some
one must have a warrant and probable 
cause to enter a students room. Since 
no one was sure as to what exactly 
constitutes probable cause and entry, it 
was agreed that SDC should look into 
the matter further with the Housing 
Office.
First, under new business, Chairman 
Dave Goldstein moved to have the rules 
tabled. Then, Senator Allen Greenberg 
moved to change the freedom of speech 
resolution passed last week to include 
members and their invited guests 
where it originally said only members 
of the campus community should be 
allowed to leaflet. After a heated dis
cussion, including a fiery outburst from 
Hal Levine, the resolution passed 11 to 
5.
> - photo by Glenn Schuster
SEI Director Larry Druffel makes a point in last Thursday's ECE Forum debate as Philosophy Professor Jonathan Presseler plans his 
rebuttal. The two debated and answered questions from the audience about the SEI for over an hour.
I certainly disagree with what Professor 
Pressler says, but I recognize and think it very 
important that he have a right to say it. All of 
our activities are open and were part of the 
CMU community. Any responsible individual 
at CMU is welcome [at the SEI].
We have no work going on in the Strategic 
Defense Initiative, but that is not a political 
statement. The fact that we dont is a conse
quence of the technical agenda that we put 
together, and it simply doesnt fit with the SEI 
agenda at this point. Now, might SEI work 
someday to contribute to SDI? You bet it 
might. And so might most of the technical 
work going on here at CMU today. But, Pro
fessor Pressler was correct in stating that we do 
no classified research.
Druffel goes on to say that he recognized the 
concern with dependence on DoD and the 
amount of DoD money which is coming into 
CMU. Sixty percent of CMUs research fund
ing comes from the DoD. And thats some
what of a dangerous thing. But the fact is, the 
DoD motivates most of the research in this 
country, and thats the way we do business in 
this country. If you want to do a large amount 
of research, youre going to be taking DoD 
money. Now if you dont want that, thats 
okay, you dont have to take that money. In the 
meantime, I think, at CMU we ought to diver
sify our funding. We ought to get more money 
from as many different places as we can so that 
no certain one can have a serious impact. But 
I dont think the SEI is adding significantly to
our risk in any way, because our budget was 
established by Congress.
If youre opposed to doing DoD research, 
says Druffel, then you ought not to do it. But 
there are those of us who are not opposed to 
that kind of work, and we dont believe our 
venue ought to be selected by those who are 
opposed to it. We have as much right to do that 
work, as those of you who do not wish to do 
that work have not to.
Following Druffels rebuttal, Pressler again 
raised the important question about the 
amount of DoD funding CMU currently re
ceives and said, there is a tendency for a 
university that relies so heavily on the DoD for 
funding to be quite wary and leery of opposing 
the DoD about really serious issues.
Druffel, however, replied by appealing to 
what he considers the necessary and valuable 
aspect of working for the DoD. We live in a 
dangerous world, and every day, in some place 
out there, Americans are putting their lives on 
the line. Today it happens to be in the Persian 
Gulf. I personally dont like the idea of reflag
ging Kuwaiti ships. Thats beside the point. 
We also have American ships there, and we 
have Americans who dont want to be there. 
But theyre there. Theyre flying airplanes, 
and theyre airplanes that depend on the qual
ity of the software that will defend them. There 
are also ships there which depend on software 
controlled radar to detect incoming missiles. 
In the past these systems havent always 
worked. I say that if we can build software
technology that can make American lives 
safer the next time, then Im all for doing it.
After the initial debate between Druffel and 
Pressler, the audience was welcomed into the 
discussion. One of the first comments was 
from an SEI employee who stated that Just 
because we work for DoD, doesnt mean we 
support everything the DoD does. We do have 
some say-so in what our technology is used 
for. Pressler responded by saying that he 
disagreed, and that he still worries about to 
what use SEIs software will be put. I dont 
think you at SEI have that much control over 
what is done with that software in the long 
run.
Later on in the audience discussion an issue 
was raised over whether or not an objective 
review board should be set up to analyze the 
ethical implications involved in certain SEI 
projects. Druffel thought that such a review 
board would be just another overhead in the 
complicated bureacracy.
Although the discussion last Thursday did 
get heated at times, it maintained a relatively 
calm and well-managed atmosphere, espe
cially given the crowded conditions in Gregg 
Hall. Almost all the seats were taken.
The debate over the SEI was the third in a 
series of discussions presented by the ECE 
Forum. The two earlier discussions were on 
the issue of the Strategic Defense Initiative 
and accidents in nuclear reactors. The next 
discussion will be about abortion on Novem
ber 12.
Sunday, Nov. 8 - 10:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m.
TEMPLE SINAI
5505 Forbes Ave. Sq. Hill
Furniture, Rugs, Lamps, Kitchen ware, 
Household Goods, Books, Records, Antiques, 
Linens, Small Appliances, Clothing, 
Jewelry, Toys  Much More
New- Fill A Bag  Special Items
QREAT VALUES PRICED TO SELL QUICKLY
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922 
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................ 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid.................... ...................................................281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory 
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
K
November 3,1987The TartanPage 7
 Pressler Questions Morality of SEI Research

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 3,1987
Minutes of the Student Senate: October 27
Meeting called to order 7:00 pm
Senators present: Berger (alt), Berkowitz, 
Bostin (alt). Christina. Clark. Frazier. Gallo, 
Gantshar, Goldstein, Graupera, Greenberg, 
Hausman, Jainchill, Levine, Levy, Mukherjee, Steppel, Zapf.
Absent: Liu (exc), Sherlock, Trinh (exc).
Ex officio Members Present: Robitshek, 
Skolkin (late), Vayansky
Absent: Matsko.
Audience Participation: none.
President: Andy Robitshek: Quality of life 
report available tomorrow. Report next week 
on Greenbriar Fiesta.
SDC: Delia Vayansky: SDC/Senate recep
tion 8:30tomorrow faculty lounge. Call x2114 
and leave message on answering machine if 
you are going. Clipper Ship dance was fun. 
Delia will check further into the room entering 
policy concerning the dairy people entering on 
Dec. 6 for stolen milk crates.
IFC: no report.
Student Affairs: no report.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: Faculty rep. 
be at Nov. 3 meeting. Keating and Elliott will 
speak on Nov. 10- topic unknown. Elections 
Nov. 11,12. Senators remember to attend 10th 
and 19th meetings. Eight names will be sent to 
Student Affairs to meet with Elliott and 
Keating regularly to discuss building projects 
and current gym.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: not present; no 
report.
Academic Affairs: Lisa Christina: Last Lec
tures: Professor Chelvalcumar from Civ. E. 
Is Terrorism the Only Alternative Nov. 10, 
4:30, Gregg Hall. Professor Sherwood from 
Physics The International Language Espe
ranto Dec. 1, 4:30, Gregg Hall.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: Wed.
met with Aiken to get spray booth for architect 
theaters. Will try to get money. Greenberg and 
Kombrek met with Shallow about Forbes traf
fic problem. There has been a recent accident 
by Donner. This will be brought up. Goldstein: 
Look into limited power for campus police 
like at Penn State.
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: Happy 
Hour Nov. 5,4-6 pm. Need info, from Tamal. 
Election Nov. 11,12. Put up sheets in office for 
phone messages. More specific list is posted 
on what we have.
Rules: Shep Bostin: Approved new 
constitution will be brought up in new busi
ness. Submit concerns on board in office.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal Mukherjee: Forbes gallery needs to pay $600 for new 
sign above door. Motion passed for Senate to 
allocate $350, $300 for sign and $50 to iden
tify it as CMU space. Donor will pay for rest of 
sign. Motion seconded to allocate $ 170 to Mr. 
Varsity event, sponsored by Kappa Alpha 
Theta. Discussion: Allen and Tamal: It would 
be nice if it were open for whole campus to 
participate in. Representative Jeanne Sulli
van: Tickets open to whole campus and is for 
charity. Question called. Seconded. 10 op
posed, the rest in favor. Motion passed. 
Budget ready next week. If not will say where 
to pick it up. Discuss it Nov. 10. Plan for long 
meeting. A pre-budget session will not be 
held, but people can call him to talk budget.
Old Business: none.
New Business: Dave: move rules tabled. 
Allen: move to add members and their invited 
guests to Free Speech Resolution passed last 
week. Motion seconded. Discussion: Tamal: 
for elections both sides need to represented. 
Allen: This policy assures that other parties 
can be rep. with no restrictions on either party.
Tamal: Supports Allen- Will maintain atmos
phere of academic freedom. Question called. 1 
objection: CMU is private campus with 
enough crime already If someone wants to 
leaflet, she/he can find a group on campus to 
sponsor her/him. Vote: 11 in favor, 5 opposed. 
Resolution passes. Elections in Skibo. Talk to 
Terry Keller about where they will be held. 
Give Dave alternates for when absent.
Announcements: Happy Hour Nov. 5,4-6. 
AA after meetings. Delia (SDC): Tell me if 
you are going to the SDC/Senate reception.
Meeting adjourned: 7:40
Wittle Resigns As 
SDC President
SDC vice president Glenn Meter took 
over the office of SDC president last 
Wednesday after acting president Eric 
Wittle took a leave of absence. Wittle 
had contracted mononucleosis re
cently. He is planning to remain at 
home for the rest of the semester.
Meter will remain president until 
spring elections, when he will step 
down.
Report Calls for ATO Probation
continued from page 1
recommendation and how the report still faced 
a final review by the committee and the IFC. 
Antonson had not yet read the report, but felt 
that the implementation of such a probationary 
period would only be as harsh as the timing of 
the period was concerned. Obviously, if the 
restrictions are applied during a rush period 
they would be more harsh than if applied 
during a more quiet weekend, such as a mid
semester break or Thanksgiving vacation. 
The report itself detailed the social proba
tionary period as a two week period during 
which ...ATO will not be allowed to have an 
open party, poster for any event or turn on their 
mixer sign for any reason. Violation of this 
probationary period will result in a $500 fine 
and an extension of their probationary period 
to the end of December, 1987. 
The report did include, however, a partial 
explanation behind such a disciplinary action. 
It stated, ATO is greatly mistaken if they 
believe that they can indiscriminately harass
any Greek organization that they want any
time that they want. When a house is involved 
in several incidents of misconduct with other 
Greek organizations on the same night, action 
must be taken. This statement was prompted 
by the fact that ATO was involved with several 
incidents of vandalism and disorderly conduct 
at Phi Kappa Theta and at the sororities, as 
highlighted in the report itself. Although j 
claims were independently settled with the 
sororities, the report stressed IFC action.
What we need to do, as stressed in the 
report, explained Tomczyk, is to set up a set 
of guidelines so that no incidents will occur on 
future pledge nights. Using the broad recom
mendations of the committee, a comprehen
sive set of guidelines for pledge night activi
ties [from the report] should be constructed to j 
avoid the miscommunication between frater
nities and sororities alike that resulted in so 
many problems this year.
Copies of the report can be obtained from the 
office of Ron Campana, the Greek advisor.
Challenge College Sex Bowl
Relationship Topics
How Much do You Really Know??
Come Try to Beat the Reigning Sex Bowl Champs 
Get a 5 person team together and meet at
Morewood Rec Room, Nov 10- 7:30 p.m.
Call Donna Morosky at ext. 2075 to register your team
Nov 10
First Round Challenge Sex Bowl
Nov 11
Session by Professor Ernie Alieva 
Topic: Sex Drugs and All That:
Problems of Individual Rights and Respect on Moral Issues
Nov 12 
Finals for Sex Bowl
REFRESHMENTS PRIZES INFORMATIONLaughsl! Laughsll Laughs!!
ft-ewntcd by Housing and Student AITars
88.3 FM STEREO
%n \:'t\ -mO
A Question and Answer Session with
Carnegie Mellon President Richard Cyert
Call in with your questions, concerns and 
comments about the past, present and future of 
Carnegie Mellon.
Monday, November 9th 
7:00 pm
WRCT PHONE LINES
x2883 FR 621-WRCT
Funded By Your Student Activities Fee
a
V
o
o
tt

---------------------------------------------------

invites 
Carnegie Mellon Seniors 
to an Informational Meeting 
to discuss opportunities in the
Debt Financing Division 
Institutional Sales & Trading
contiueiid pa

---------------------------------------------------

ditorial_____________________________________
'  _ 77I ~ ~ v-v. i.- ^ - - Wv*;-h-s" 5 " -;' ' - ^ " " ;; - - v~ " 'Xi ' .' t .IZ' '
Free Speech Policy Needs To Be Well Defned 
Freedom of speech has become a much discussed topic in the last few weeks. 
People have mentioned everything from harassment by Campus Police to some 
wacko running down halls, shouting and banging a cross on doors. When you 
get rid of all the rhetoric, whats left? A policy that needs to be more welldefined.
In what ways can one define a freedom of speech policy? In a society in which 
it was deemed the most important and first amendment to the constitution, it 
seems pretty clear-cut: youre either for it or against it.
The administration has made the point that the college is private and they can 
impose any rules and restrictions they like on free speech. To an extent, they can. 
However, the continn uedpage 8NgpwssB states, An academic community is 
uniquely suited to its educational and scholarly purposes primarily because of 
its firm commitment to., .freedom of inquiry and expression, [and] respect for the 
dignity of each individual... This written policy directly contradicts the policy 
voiced by members of the administration in each of the campus newspapers in 
recent weeks.
Specifically, freedom of inquiry and expression is not maintained by 
requiring speakers or leafleteers to register with Student Affairs. First of all, this 
gives the administration an opportunity to keep a close watch on or turn away 
those speakers orgroupsof which it doesnt approve. Secondly, a speaker whose 
schedule is uncertain and who may not have ample time to inform the university 
of his presence will be susceptible to being removed from campus. The 
administration will claim he has violated the rules.
While the official policy calls for the preservation of each individuals dignity 
and respect, this is not always the case. Campus Police should have no right to 
approach and harass, for example, a leafleteer. Who are you? Who sent you? 
Who gave you permission? These are not questions which should be tolerated, 
nor should it be allowed that leaflets are confiscated!
Campus Police should not be blamed, however; it is not their policy, but the 
administrations, which is ill-defined. Admittedly, Campus Police should be 
aware of whats going on, just in case things get out of hand; but the only way 
they should be able to find out whats going on is by approaching a leafleteer and 
accepting a handout or by asking, the objective being to obtain information, not 
to harass.
The policy isnt well-defined, and for a better definition try this: Congress 
shall make no law...abridging the freedom of speech or of the press.
Letters:
Philosophy Prof Attacks Discriminatory Insurance Rates
^Editor:
I want to take issue with several of the claims 
made by Thomas A. Heim in his article in the 
October 27 issue of The Tartan, Insurance 
Discrimination Not Unfair.
In his defense of discriminatory insurance 
rates based upon ones sex and sexual prefer
ence, Mr. Heim asks those who oppose such 
rates: Why should I pay out of my pocket for 
a risk you pose to yourself ? (my emphasis). 
He suggests that one of the considerations in 
setting insurance rates is and ought to be 
whether or not the relevant risk factors are selfimposed. As an account of how insurance rates 
are currently determined, this is incorrect. 
From the perspective of the insurance compa
nies, how one came to have a particular risk 
factor is irrelevant to what ones rate will be. 
Instead, they want to know whether you have 
the factor, since this tells them the likelihood 
of their having to pay up in your case. If you 
have factors associated with a greater risk of 
heart disease, you pay higher rates for health 
insurance whether the source of those factors 
is congenital or dietary. Attempting to sort out 
risk factors according to whether or not they 
are self-imposed would be a difficult if not 
impossible task. And it would be of no benefit 
ti the insurance companies.
Setting aside the issue of what the current 
practice is with respect to determining rates, 
what are the reasons why some oppose certain 
forms of discrimination in such rates? In cir
cumstances where there has been a long his
tory of prejudice, hostility or arbitrary dis
crimination against members of particular 
groups, it may be morally desirable to prohibit 
discrimination on the basis of being a member
of those groups in order to discourage further 
prejudice or discrimination, even though this 
may result in higher rates for everyone else. If 
it turned out that, say, Jews, Blacks, or Asians 
suffered from certain diseases that are costly to 
treat and that occur with greater frequency in 
these groups than in the rest of the population, 
would this justify having separate health in
surance policies for Jews, Blacks, or Asians? 
I assume that Mr. Heim would respond yes. 
But given the history of discrimination against 
members of these groups, given the increased 
likelihood of continued discrimination when 
they are systematically singled-out for certain 
kinds of differential treatment, and given the 
various forms of degradation and humiliation 
that commonly accompany discriminatory 
practices, the moral benefits may very well be 
worth the economic costs. This is similar to the 
line of reasoning of those feminists who argue 
that, even if existing insurance rates are to the 
immediate economic advantage of women, 
the overall disadvantages of permitting dis
crimination on the basis of sex are quite sig
nificant. Thus, reinforcing existing patterns of 
discrimination is seen as being morally objec
tionable. Though I doubt that these arguments 
are likely to persuade Mr. Heim, I think they 
have more force than he admits. Whether these 
considerations are, in themselves, sufficient to 
warrant prohibiting such forms of discrimina
tion is a matter that rests upon empirical and 
normative considerations that have yet to be 
explored in sufficient detail by Mr. Heim.
Finally, lets turn to Mr. Heims claim that 
discrimination against the gay and lesbian 
population should always exist in the insur
ance industry (my emphasis). Grant, for the
sake of argument, that sexual preference is a 
legitimate basis for setting differential insur
ance rates (i.e.,' as an indicator of certain risks 
associated with individuals having that prefer
ence). Now, contrary to what Mr. Heim sug
gests, given the currently available evidence 
regarding AIDS, there is no reason whatsoever 
for women who are lesbians having higher 
insurance rates. There is no evidence that 
women who are lesbians are at a higher risk for 
aids than heterosexual men or women. In fact, 
given what is known about the epidemiology 
of the disease within the U.S. population, there 
is good reason for thinking that they are at a 
lower risk for the disease than the rest of the 
population. By the logic of Mr. Heims own 
argument, this should qualify them for lower 
rather than higher insurance rates. And, as Mr. 
Heim acknowledged with great alarm last 
spring (in an article he co-authored calling for 
the withdrawal of Student Senate funds from 
the CMU Gay and Lesbian Alliance), it is 
likely that in the future AIDS will be decreasingly associated with male homosexuals, as is 
already the case in some parts of the country. 
The disease will probably come to be much 
more evenly distributed among individuals of 
both sexes and all sexual preferences (except 
perhaps celibates), as has been the case all 
along among those in Africa who have the 
disease. Once AIDS stops being associated 
with those having specific sexual preferences, 
the justification provided by Mr. Heim in 
favor of discrimination by the insurance in
dustry against gay men will no longer apply. 
And, as I argued above, his argument applied 
to the lesbian population is a nonstarter. Given 
Mr. Heims own moral assumptions about
AIDS, his claim that discrimination against 
the gay and lesbian population should always 
exist in the insurance industry is wholly un- > 
warranted. Thus, one neednt accept the argu
ment against discrimination I outlined above 
to reject Mr. Heims conclusions.
Its distressing that those in the Conserva
tive Comer have made repeated calls for 
blaming and stigmatizing the victims of preju
dice and a terrible disease, all in the name of 
morality, liberty, and individual rights.
\
Ernie Alieva
Department of Philosophy
Reader Reacts To 
Irony In The Tartan
Editor:
I congratulate you on the (intentional?) irony , 
of the layout of page 17 of the October 27 
issue. Top of the page is an article beginning, 
Much of the media trivializes the role of 
women, hinders meaningful relationships... 
and concludes with an invitation to readers to 
send ads they regard as exemplifying this to 
the professor who made the presentation. 
Bottom of the pagebut not connected to the 
articleis an ad on behalf of the Selective v 
Service (military draft registration). Its really 
offensive. Was it meant as an example of antihuman advertising, to illustrate the article 
above or not?
Kate Luxemburg
Yes, it was. Ed.

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartaPage 11
Conservative Comer.' Liberal Obsession With Safety Not Effective
By THOMAS A. HEIM 
Gun control, low speed limits, and manda
tory seat-belt laws are a result of a liberal 
obsession with safety, even when such 
safety measures are either ineffective, un
constitutional, orprohibitively expensive. 
Gun control legisla
tion is an open attack 
on the civil liberties 
of law-abiding Americans who wish to defend 
their constitutional right to life. Low speed 
limits are a very costly and ineffective meas
ure which regularly add billionr of dollars in 
extra cost to business by increasing travel 
time, and unnecessarily hinder people who 
wish to make rapid travel. Mandatory seat-belt 
laws and standards enforce a tie-your-shoelaces policy on the American public.
The United States Constitution guarantees 
individuals the right to life and the right to bear 
arms. After all, if one has a right to life, it is 
necessary to provide the means to preserve 
life. Every year, 650,000 attacks are success fully defended by an individual who carries a 
handgun. How do Franzini & Witbrock justify 
denying a potential rape victim from effec
tively defending herself? Several decades ago, 
people used to care when an individual was in 
need of help, and would come to his or her aid. 
During the 1960s, when much good ifl the 
world was thrown in the trash can in favor of 
sexually transmitted diseases, people, in gen0 eral, stopped caring. I was appalled, but not 
surprised, to read the letter from Helen P. 
McDonell last week. Apparently, even some 
of us selected to attend and teach here at CMU 
are in too much of a rush to get to class, to 
work, or to the mall in order to help someone 
injured in our path.
When Mr. Goetz was accosted on the sub
way, an area ruled not by common courtesy,
but fear, he came to his own aid. 1 dont think 
many people blame him. We have come to 
expect to see those not involved to take their 
seats as spectators. Fortunately, Mr. Goetz 
carried with him a means of protection. Many 
are alive and well because they chose to pro
tect themselves rather than be subjected to a 
society full of criminals who rob, beat, rape 
and murder their victims every day. The police 
cannot provide everyone with protection, and 
our courts shove violent criminals back on the 
streets in a few months or years. The 
constitution guarantees people the choice to 
protect themselves from such criminals via the 
right to bear arms. To take this away with gun 
control legislation is effectively advocating 
rule of the streets and homes by punks and 
thugs who have no respect for life or property. 
This safety legislation trades prevention of a 
few scattered deaths by individuals who have 
violent pasts in favor of Americans living in 
fear for all their lives.
The 55 mile per hour speed limit was popular 
during the energy crisis which vanished 
years ago. Recently, the 65 MPH national 
speed limit was tacked on to a 88 billion dollar 
highway bill. The pork-barrel aspects of the 
bill appealed to the liberals, and the higher 
speed limit appealed to the conservatives in 
the west. As such, it passed. Even at 65 MPH, 
businesses are slowed in shipments, business
men must put extra, valuable time aside to 
make road trips. Billions of dollars and manhours will be saved with the 65 MPH speed 
limit alone. " -
Many claim highway safety must not be sac
rificed to cost. However, low speed limits have 
little to do with safety. The rate of traffic 
fatalities has been declining ever since the 
automobile was invented, and it continues to 
do so. Some experts belive that it is difference 
in speeds, not speed itself, that is the cause of
accidents. Is it right for the government to 
place huge man-hour costs on business and 
family in the name of a safety which is 
continually improving anyway? The speed 
limits on federal highways should be set to 
rates which are indicative of the age and true 
condition of the highway, not rates dictated by 
consumer advocates and police departments 
enthusiastic about the revenue base provided 
by radar ambushes and other entrapment tools.
The mandatory seat-belt laws are an insult to 
all Americans. Anyone who has respect for his 
or her own general safety will wear one. 
However, it is up to government to tell us, in 
the name of our own safety, to wear our own 
seat-belt or be fined? John Smith, who doesnt 
wear his seat belt, harms no one, and has no 
potential fey doing harm except to himself. It 
is up to John to make his choice. If he doesnt 
wear it, he pays all the consequences in his 
accident But, seat-belt advocates claim, we 
must help the ignorant or careless by policing 
them to ensue that they pursue only the safest 
path. Similarly, should we limit the choice of 
automobiles by the safety of their body integ
rity? For whatever reason, John Smith bought 
a Yugo instead of a Volkswagen. This is a 
relative threat to his safety in the event of an 
accident. Should the government prohibit 
John from buying the Yugo? Many cars are not 
equipped with airbags. John Smith may injure 
himself if he chooses to buy such a car. Is this 
acceptable? It seems that these choices affect 
only John himself, and no one else. Why is this 
governments concern?
As liberals get carried away with safety, they 
impose costs on individuals. At first, the 
individuals free choice is spent for him. Pro
gressively, the individual must pay more and 
more for technologies that are solely provided 
for his protection, technologies that he does 
not want, and technologies expensive enough
rInquiring Minds Uncovers SAVDI
By THE INQUIRING STAFF 
On January 10, 1984, one of the United 
States Minuteman III nuclear missiles ac
quired a really nasty thirst for a 7-11 big gulp. 
Unfortunately, this was on the flat, desolate 
(and boring) Ne
braska-Wyoming 
border, and the near
est 7-11 was in Ohio. 
Despair set in. Sud
denly, it realized that Ohio was only a sub
orbital launch away. Out of courtesy, the 
Minuteman informed the two man silo crew 
that it was going out and would be back in a 
few (you think were kidding, dont you?
' Well, this ones for real).
How does one stop a 5.1 megaton nuclear 
weapon from launching itself? Well, the StraHERBLOCK S CARTOON
WE FIREPT A SHIP 
CAU6HT |N THE HOSTILE 
ACT OF LAYIH6 MIMES
WE HAP TO SHOOT UP 
SOME BOATS THAT ATTACKCP <JS
OHE OF THEIR MISSILES 
HIT A SHIP FLYING OUR FLAG
AHP WE KNOCKEP OUT A COUPLE OF THEIR OIL PLATFORMS
BUT THERE ARE HO IMMINENT HOSTILITIES
tegic Air Command (SAC) came up with a 
method that we feel is at least deserving of the 
Nobel in Physics. They parked an armored car 
over the silo (Again, we are serious). When the 
press found out about this last week, the Air 
Forces official statement was that this was 
only an added precaution. SAC believed 
that when the explosive bolts slid back the silo 
door, the car, with its brakes off, would remain 
momentarily at rest, then fall on the launching 
Minuteman. Capt. Bill Kalton, public infor
mation officer at Warren Air Force Base, said 
that this would have prevented it from going 
any place. But, according to Capt. Philip 
Delaney, SAC spokesman, There is a certain 
amount of guesswork involved in the blocking 
of a firing missile with a car. Our Understate
ment of the Year Award goes to Phil Delaney, 
who added that this procedure has never been 
tested. SAC, however, emphasized last week 
that the public was never in danger and that 
missiles cannot accidentally launch them
selves (even if they are really thirsty). Thats 
why SAC parks armored cars over their mis
sile silos. This is SACs official statement, but 
we decided to do a little checking on our own.
We started our investigation at the Cheyenne 
branch of Hertz Rent-an-Armored-Vehicle. 
The manger told us two clean cut boys in blue 
came in one day inquiring about renting an 
armored truck. She distinctly remembered 
asking them whether the truck would be taken 
out of state (the rate was higher for such 
rentals). The one turned to the other and said, 
Joe. how far did you say this thing goes? The 
other replied, At least sub orbital. I guess 
wed better take the out of state rate.
The manager continued, We finished filling 
out all the necessary paperwork, and I started 
to explain the rental agreement to them. 1 told 
them they had a hundred miles per day free, 
anything above that would cost twenty cents a
to limit his economic choices beyond where 
they would otherwise be.
Much is done in the name of safety, and a lot 
of such things are inexpensive and unques
tionably good. Simple lines on the road and 
traffic signs do so much and cost little. But gun 
control, low speed limits and seat belt laws 
have little to do with safety and much to do 
with high costs. To ask people to live in fear, 
as victims of criminals, has nothing to do with 
promoting their safety and may actually cost 
them their lives. Low speed limits are expen
sive and are unnecessary in an age where 
traffic fatality rates are constantly improving. 
Seat belt laws are downright offensive to the 
intelligence of Americans, who deserve the 
choice to select what technologies they wish to 
pay for to protect themselves. Its about time 
the Ralph Nader types stop getting hysterical 
about these issues which are a disgrace to 
American ideals and values. Instead, its time 
these types start coming to the fundamental 
realization that Americans must be allowed to 
make free choices that reflect the sense of 
security they wish for themselves.
mile extra. For some reason they didnt seem 
to like that much, but they went along with it.
I asked whether or not they wanted collision 
insurance, and they started to giggle.
Well maam,  one answered, I expect that 
could be useful for this particular trip.
The manager told us that two days later they 
brought the truck back without a scratch and 
only ten more miles on it. For some reason, 
however, the brakes had been disconnected. 
Our investigation continued.
We discovered that SAC has much more 
ambitious plans for armored cars than just 
blocking US missiles. They call this program 
the Strategic Armored Vehicle Defense Initia
tive (SAVDI). It calls for a three pronged 
deployment of Wells-Fargo trucks: landbased, air-based, and space-based. On land, 
the plan calls for the Marine Corp to drive the 
trucks from Alaska, across the Bering Strait, 
into the Soviet Union and park them on top of 
Russian silos. They will then lock the trucks 
(so the Soviets cannot put on the emergency 
brakes) and run like hell. The air plan requires 
a slow-flying, armored vehicle bomber (cur
rently being built by Cessna with stealth tech
nology) to penetrate the Soviet airspace and 
drop armored cars on top of their silos. Finally, 
the space-based portion of SAVDI mandates 
the placing of armored vehicles in low earth 
orbit fitted with retro-jets. In time of crisis, the 
jets would be fired and the armored cars would 
fall upon their pre-selected Soviet targets. Our 
SDI Plan of the Year Award to SAVDI! Unfor
tunately, the Soviets have probably already 
learned of SAVDI and are working on 
counter-measures. We re not worried. If SAC 
can come up with a plan to use armored cars to 
deflect launching missiles, they can certainly 
beat any Soviet counter-measures.
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
and R. Wilson.
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
PUT EVmTHINS YOtrvt 60T WTO STAR WARS'
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief__________........ Russ Seligman
Managing Editor....-----------------David N. Levy
Business Manager.......________ Mark R. Benish
News Editor 
Assistant News Editor ... 
Features Editor
~.... Karl Barnhart
.......Eric Leuliette
-----Howdy Pierce
Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor_______________Stewart Levine
Assistant Sports Editor__................. David Brill
Diversions Editor.......................... Bruce Kasrel
Photo Editor_______________Glenn Schuster
Art Editor___.............--------Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor...._______....... Michele Osherow
Production Manager-------------------Drue Miller
Ad Manager__..........---------.......Celeste Clark
Copy Manager............................Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors ..............................................
Lisa D. McAnany Olve Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday durmg 
the fa and spring semesters at no cost to members ot the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press. Inc Subscript or are 
available for $15 per semester $25 per year The Editorial appea nog 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion orf The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions se individual au 
thors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are 
usually members of the University community A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification Names will be withheld upon request 
The Tartan reserves the light to condense or refect any letter or 
column Copyright  1987 by The Tartan The editorial board re
serves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 3,1987
The World According To Me
The following is the first of four installments 
which, when combined, form a letter sent to 
The Tartan. The letter was entitled The World 
According To Me, and was signed, simply, 
Jesus Christ. The letter is unedited. The Tartan 
does not support or deny the validity of the 
letter. The purpose of publishing this letter is 
not to offend any person or group of people; 
rather, it is simply an expression of the views 
of the letter's author. Ed.
Editor:
I am the incarnation of Jesus Christ. 1 live in 
Canada.
The human race has the potential to create a 
super being (Computer Artificial Intelligence
 AI) that would have the power, through 
science, to manipulate reality itself (i.e.. mat
ter. energy, time, mind, emotion, spirit, etc.) to 
the extent of being able to give every human 
that ever lived Heaven, forever young, forever 
happy.
The creation of such an entity(s) is at least 
decades, perhaps centuries, away, but I can 
now reveal that this is Gods goal for Human
kind. You might want to think of AI as Gods 
way of fulfilling a mandate, or promise, to give 
all human souls an eternal Heaven. He cant do 
it alone, however. He needs Humankinds 
help to create an entity (AI) that can fulfill his 
promise. As a united planet striving to create 
such an AI we will need all the luck we can get. 
As separate nations constantly on the brink 
of nuclear destruction, we don't stand a 
chance.
The nuclear-weapon-wielding armies of the 
world MUST dismantle, and then destroy the 
component parts of all nuclear weapons
IMMEDIATELY! If dismantlement does not 
occur the human race will surely be destroyed, 
if not intentionally, then UNINTENTION
ALLY, through a technical accident or some 
other misunderstanding. I have sent repeated 
messages (i.e., telegrams, telephone calls, let
ters, etc.), once a week or once every two 
weeks, for the past two years to the heads of 
nuclear armies ordering them to order the 
forces under their command to dismantle, and 
destroy the component parts of all their nu
clear weapons and to inform as many people as 
they can (which I believe would be almost ev
eryone) that it is against my will for a human 
being to physically hurt or kill another human 
being (always has been, always will be). 
Wars are only the conceptual grouping of 
the individual killing of one or more people. In 
my mind war is evil because it is evil for a 
human to kill another human regardless of the 
reason.
Reagan and Gorbachev seem ready to dis
mantle some of their arsenals. This is good. 
But all weapons must be dismantled, by all 
countries. We must become a united planet 
free from the threat of world war.
No one has the right to physically hurt or kill 
another human being. Not a soldier during 
wartime, not a policeperson in the line of 
duty, (they can use stun guns or some other 
non-fatal means of law enforcement), not an 
executioner in the service of the state. This 
paragraph is mainly to inform the nuclear 
weapons operators (the ones who would actu
ally fire the nuclear weapons) that in my judge
ment they would be committing murder, plain 
and simple, regardless of which side they 
were on. If YOU, the reader, are involved with
nuclear, or mass destructive, weapons in any 
way then I want you to quit your job, or at the 
very least refuse to have anything to do with 
these weapons. There is no excuse for people 
who design, build, deploy, maintain, operate, 
etc. these abominations.
I want all nuclear weapons dismantled and 
destroyed immediately. I want whoever reads 
this to take immediate, physical, pacifistic 
(i.e., without physically hurting anyone, of 
course) but PHYSICAL action to dismantle 
and destroy the component parts of all the 
nuclear, or mass destructive, weapons you can 
reach. I attacked the Trident nuclear subma
rine base at Bangor, Washington State, on 
October 19, 1985.1 was arrested and charged 
with trespassing. The charges were dropped a 
few weeks later.
If you live near a nuclear installation, or 
know where there are nuclear weapons, then 
go down there and use whatever means neces
sary (without physically hurting anyone of 
course) to dismantle and destroy those weap
ons. I want you to make any nuclear weapons 
you can reach as inoperative as possible. 
Destroy the firing control apparatus; destroy 
any supporting structures; drain the fuel from 
the missile; remove the warhead. In other 
words, put the weapon out of commission. IT 
MUST BE DONE!!!
If you need my order, as Christ, to do this 
then I order you to do it!!! If not, then I beg of 
you to do it!!!
True, you will very possibly be jeopardizing 
your physical safety but the alternative is 
surely eventual complete human destruction, 
and, along with it, any chance of Al-created 
Heaven. I want you to organize as many
people as you can to make a concerted, paciffitic, PHYSICAL attack on all nuclear (or mass 
destructive) weapons. If no one will listen to 
you then go yourself, but do it NOW, within 
the next week.
I cant force you to follow me. You must 
follow me of your own free will. In order t<> 
follow me and be a Christian you must obey 
but one law: Thou Shalt Not Hurt Anyone. 
I believe you all know when you are physically 
hurting someone (or placing someone in 
physical jeopardy, which amounts to the same 
thing) and in order to follow me you must not 
do this.
Whether or not you are hurting someone in 
some other way (i.e., psychologically, emo
tionally, financially, etc.) is sometimes more 
difficult to decide. You should let your con
science be your guide in non-physical matters. 
As long as everyone obeys this law, then 
everything will work out all right, and we will 
be able to attain Al-created Heaven.
I want anyone with over thirty million dollars 
in assets (U.S. funds) to give the amount that 
their personal wealth exceeds this figure to 
charities that feed the hungry people of the 
world.
No matter how hard you have worked for this 
money, thirty million dollars is enough for 
anyone. You can still make money, but at the 
end of each year you should give to charity the 
amount that your personal wealth exceeds 
thirty million dollars.
This work cancels and replaces any other 
work I have published.
Jesus Christ
CompuServe ID# 75706,134
Letters: (cont d)
g8Nws BirfyD8Jynir ,inryIsff
Editor:
As many of us living in Mudge House 
may know by now, whether it be by the 
presence of the construction crew at 7:00 in 
the morning or by the blocking of the side 
entrance to the courtyard, the grand fortifi
cation of Mudge House has begun. Of 
course, the residents were notified later that 
day of the changes taking place.
The sealing-off of the side entrance to the 
courtyard is but a small part in the grand 
scheme to improve the security of Mudge. 
Other improvements included a revamped 
lobby, a permanent manned desk, a vesti
bule, a card reader for the inside door, and 
increased number of mailboxes. The fire 
alarm system is still being revamped.
The side door to the C-wing of Mudge 
will remain an entrance for the remainder 
of the school year. Flyers describing these 
changes indicated that the entrance may be 
sealed off next year. All residents would 
then have to enter Mudge through the 
monitored front door.
As a resident, one could not help but feel 
upset over the intrusion on his/her daily 
routine. After all, the construction com
menced without any advance notice from 
either Housing, Area Coordinators, or 
Residential Assistants. Many residents 
were undoubtedly surprised when they 
discovered the usual exit being obstructed 
by construction. Although the residents 
were notified later that day, they would be 
perfectly justified in feeling angry. Later is 
just not soon enough.
As one may expect, Mudge House resi
dents have found the blocked side entrance 
inconvenient. Cyclists, in particular, feel 
the pinch. Instead of simply unlocking their 
bicycles from the bicycle racks and bring
ing them through the side entrance, they are 
now forced to bring it through the main
entrance. Before they do that, though, they 
must unlock the door to A-wing, open the 
door, bring the bicycle to the front desk, 
open the door to the vestibule, and bring the 
bicycle through the vestibule. Bringing the 
bicycle back to the bicycle racks is equally, 
if not more, difficult. It is rare that one does 
this without being bumped by the selfclosing doors. It is even rarer that a bicycle 
makes it through the ordeal without injury.
Other residents, too, feel the pinch. It used 
to be that B-wing residents could leave 
their wing and go into the outside world. 
Now they must open the door to A-wing 
with a key and go through two more doors 
before they enter the outside world. Once 
the Mudge Master Plan is completed, Cwing residents may experience the same 
inconvenience.
Some residents may wonder how the new 
wall will protect them in case of a fire. After 
all, for the previous two fire alarms, B-wing 
residents exited through the side entrance. 
To date, B-wing residents have not been 
informed of any new procedures in case of 
fire. Also, because of the difficulty in 
moving bicycles in and out of Mudge, some 
residents have moved their bicycles to the 
stairwell in C-wing by the exit. Needless to 
say, it creates a potential fire hazard.'
Despite all the economic, personal, and 
monetary costs, how effective will the new 
wall be in securing Mudge House? One 
Mudge-related incident was reported in last 
weeks Tartan: a burglary. The perpetrator 
entered a first floor room through a screen 
window. A wall could not have prevented 
that. It was naive on the part of the resident 
involved to leave his/her window open. 
Even a wall cannot prevent such mistakes.
Kenny Lin 
H&SS 90
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
MORNIN6 IM AMERICA
cnek

---------------------------------------------------

LOOKINGFORACHALLENGE?
As an Air Force 
officer, you can 
always expecf the 
unexpected.
You'll enjoy new 
challenges, new 
opportunities 
and accept new 
responsibilities. 
Air Force Officer 
Training School is 
the place to start. 
Your college 
degree is your 
ticket. Find out if 
you qualify. Call
Capt Larry Coccia 
412-687-7315 Collect
He was just this guy in my class with cool- looking hair. I never thought we had anything in common until we ran into each other at Great Expecta
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest couple. Class of 87
I ne
DESIGNER PERM
$25.00
Complete with written 
guarantee
The
PRECISION CUT
$13.00
Complete with shampoo and blow style
JUST-A-CUT
only S8.00
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~SV~$2.0
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo A styling
Offer Expires 
November 30
A(H>. JiN'v* NT Nf CtbbAO'.SJgllb 
EKfccnmtnsPRECISION HAlRCuTTFRS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the Street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
GftCflT
CNfccTimtnsPRECISION HAmCUTTERS
Citicorp/Citibank
Operations and Systems 
Career Presentation
Citicorp/Citibank invites you to talk with representatives from our 
North American Investment Bank about career opportunities 
in Operations and Systems. 
DATE: Tuesday, November 3 
TIME: 7 ' 9 pm 
PLACE: Skibo Room 13
Refreshments will be served

---------------------------------------------------

Karen Pavlosky 
CIT
Im runnin fo' Senate 
An dats a fact.
Ya know Im experienced 
It aint no act
I listen well 
An got lots to say 
Vote for Pavlosky 
Do it today.
John Scott Maxwell 
CIT
As a former senator and member of the 
Funding and Recognition Committee, I have 
the experience to be fair and effective. 
Thats all I can say in 30 words.
Bob Podnar 
CIT
Someone has to make sure that theres 
never another diskette day.
(No picture available)
Allen Greenberg 
H&SS
Two years Senate experience. Accomplish
ments: 10% student discount in bookstore, 
contraceptives in student stores and health 
services, increased leisure periodicals in 
library, Political Speakers Forum Board. 
Actively fighting administrative censorship.
Matthew Ruben 
H&SS
Notoriety, sobriety, constitution, recreation, 
constipation, education; your concerns will 
reach all of Student Senate, loud and clear. 
Conspicuous representation is in your best 
interest; help me end H&SSs silence.
Georgia Lydia Sine 
H&SS
Novembe
In Skibo - G
Audrey Liu 
CFA
Ciao Bellies... Got any plans? ideas? Just 
complaints? Let me know what you thinkIm repping you.
Dustin Frazier
Okay. Im running for Senate.
You say you dont care?
Well, thats the problem. Too many people 
here just dont give a damn.
But I do.
So vote for me.
Vidal D. Graupera 
CIT
Experience as a Student Senator 
Aggressive pursuit of goals that interest 
students.
Prudent use of your activities fee. 
Awareness of the student perspective. 
Finally, no nonsense and no B.S.

---------------------------------------------------

Christian Herrick 
CIT
I will work toward greater student participa
tion. Has anyone asked you what you want? 
Are you satisfied with the organizations 
your money supports? I want to know.
3er 11 & 12
- Grey Matter
Charles Jainchill 
CIT
Current CIT Student Senator, highly 
involved in Funding and Recognition 
Committee and Rules Committee. Public 
Relations Director, WRCT. Brother of 
AEPi. Willing and able to continue serving 
CMU students needs.
Kishore Rao 
CIT
Better distribution of Student Activities 
funds.
More $$$: New/Deserving organizations 
Less $$$: Student Union, etc.
Lobby Administration to increase $$$ 
support for Student activities (social, 
extracurricular, athletic)
Available Seats (Fall and Spring):
cs1 Fall
SUPA1 Fall
GSIA2 Fall, 1 Spring
CIT5 Fall
CFA2 Fall, 2 Spring
H&SS3 Fall
IM1
MCS1
Funded by Student Activities Fee
Erica Levy 
MCS
Been on Student Senate for the past 2 
semesters.
Member of Board of Trustees and Faculty 
Senate. Representing students to the 
administration. VOTE FOR ERICA LEVY!
Hoa Trinh 
CIT
RE-ELECT ME.
It takes experience, dedication and enthusi
asm to be on Student Senate, I know that 
because I am presently a Senator and I am 
ready for more.
Brian Welcker 
CIT
Til get involved in decisions affecting 
students (freedom of speech, quality of life, 
etc.) by assisting committees and special 
projects, not just attending meetings. Looks 
good on a resume, too.
David Kosmal
My goals as a Student Senator:
Promote professionalism in all campus 
publications and activities; Encourage better 
links between colleges; and push for real 
results concerning the quality of student life.
Mark Steppel 
MCS
As a Senator and member of the Academic 
Affairs Committee, I have strived to meet 
the needs of students. I hope to continue in 
my efforts to improve student life.

---------------------------------------------------

College credits
lor your 
car!
pvh
Off
PARTS & LABOR 
ON ANY REPAIR!
BRING THIS AD & CURRENT STUDENT ID AND RECEIVE 10% OFF TOTAL REPAIR BILL THRU NOV. 30
Forbes & Murray Gulf Service
T
SQUIRREL HILL, 521-2200
'Complete Automotive Repair Service for 
Foreign & Domestic Cars"
zbms Csfy ,IPJs 
lr bi:r RiD k 
Fnrw O8yA1
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces 
From Mild-Mild to' 
Death Sauce!!
CALL:
xGpuFI
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10:30 
F-S till 11:30 
Open Sundays - till 8:30.
Our Ribs?
Best in the City
Marianis Coast to-Coast Dining Guide
2125 
MURRAYRIB HOUSE SSSt
Ribs  Chicken  Barbecue Specialties
of
jmM
o Practices of "Safe Sex" 
o Implications of AIDS
o Aspects of other Sexually Transmitted Diseases
o Question & Answer / Discussion Period
Dftdo Thursday, November 5 
To Gin) a 6:30 - 8:00 PM
PDi<s Wean Hall 7500
Speakers include:
- Dr. Bruce Dixon of the Allegheny County Department of Health 
 Dr. David Lyter of the Pittsburgh Men's Study
Sponsored by Carnegie Care Unit 
Funded by Student Senate
<*
*

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Zairian Been Tastes Great or Less Filling?Peace Corps Volunteer Describes Experiences in Africa
By NATATLIE PETERSON
Tartan Staffwriter
When Shawn Wright, Peace Corps recruiter 
for the Pittsburgh area, began his two years of 
service as a Peace Corps volunteer in northern 
Zaire, the area to which he was assigned was 
frequently plagued by measles epidemics, 
dehydration and malaria. As a Peace Corps 
volunteer, he was able to instruct the town of
50,000 how to deal with and prevent these and 
other health-related problems. With the help 
of Zairian medical personnel, Wright con
ducted classes to train volunteer health work
ers and produced a monthly informational 
health pamphlet in the native langauge of the 
area. Through projects such as these, Wright 
and his co-wojrkers not only reduced the 
mortality rate significantly, but also increased 
the towns immunization rate by five hundred 
percent.
Wright describes his years in Zaire as the 
most challenging thing that I have ever done. 
While serving as a Peace Corps volunteer he 
was able to learn two foreign languages and 
acquire invaluable experience as a profes
sional. Prior to serving as a Peace Corps 
volunteer, Wright had been enrolled in a 
managerial training position which he claims, 
did not allow meto take on any real responsi
bilities. His work with the Peace Corps 
sharply contrasted with this type of training in 
that within six months from his arrival in 
Zaire, Wright was co-directing a community 
health care project that had been nonexistent 
prior to his arrival.
Although serving as a Peace Corps volunteer 
involves a lot of difficult work, there is time
f
for entertainment. While in Zaire, Wright 
usually worked about 5 1/2 days per week. In 
his free time he often went to Zairian night
clubs where he soon acquired a taste for 
Zairian pop music and beer. Zairian beer is 
far better than any American beer, he claims. 
Peace Corps volunteers are also given 24 days 
of paid vacation during each year of service. 
Wright used these vacations to travel around 
other areas of Zaire.Are You Desperately Seeking a Superhero?
I was many different people in my youth. Solo for a long, long time. That is, until I
Back in my youth (which ended about an hour 
ago when I sat down to responsibly meet the 
deadline for this column, and which will res
ume when I finish), I progressed from being 
one television-or-film superhero to the next. 
There was always a correspondence between 
my chosen superhero and my age at the 
^ timefor instance, when I was four, I was
5v cMBO0-c
WITH BOB GLICKSTEIN
Underdog. (When Pollys in trouble, I am not 
slow. Its hip, hip, hip and away I go!) I had 
a secret vitamin ring and everything. Later, 
when I was oh, about six, I was Spiderman, 
who Im sure youll agree is more cerebral 
than Underdog and certainly not a fitting char
acter for a four-year-old to be. After that, I was 
Batman for a couple of years; then, around 
 when I turned ten, I was Captain Kirk. (This 
was when my mother realized that I was ma
ture for my age.) There followed a confused 
period when I wasnt sure if I was Gage from 
Emergency or Pete from The Mod Squad. 
I must have realized that I was in over my head 
(Pete from The Mod Squad, and only 
eleven!!) so I backed off and became Han
Experiences such as those that are described 
by Shawn Wright are looked upon favorably 
by both graduate schools and employers. 
Working in the Peace Corps promotes lan
gauge, cross cultural, and organizational 
skills. Many universities offer scholarships 
that are exclusively for former Peace Corps 
volunteers. Having served as a Peace Corps 
volunteer enables those that seek federal 
employment to be granted a noncompetitive 
eligibility status for a time after service. Such 
a standing is advantageous because it allows a 
former volunteer to be hired by federal agen
cies without competition from other appli
cants. Advancement is not limited to careers in 
the federal government. According to a report 
presented to a convention of the American 
Psychological Association on September 1, 
1987, former Peace Corps volunteers consis
tently outperform fellow workers in terms of 
salary gains and upward mobility.
In addition to the career advantages gained by 
serving as a Peace Corps volunteer, there are 
several monetary benefits. While serving in a 
host country, volunteers receive a living al
lowance, paid travel and training, and com
plete medical care. The living allowance pro
vided is large enough to take care of daily 
needs, entertainment, small arts and craft pur
chases, and small purchases related to the 
assignment. Peace Corps volunteers are also 
granted $175 for each month that is served. 
This money is presented in a lump sum at the 
end of the volunteers term of service. Serving 
in the Peace Corps also helps to ease the burden 
of paying back student loans. Through a new 
program, Peace Corps volunteers are able to
reduce the amount owed on National Direct 
Student Loans (NDSL) by between fifteen and 
twenty percent per year of service. This pro
gram applies only to NDSLs that were granted 
after July, 1987. Guaranteed Student Loans 
are deferred until six months after a Peace 
Corps volunteer completes his term of service.
The Peace Corps offers its volunteers numer
ous benefits both during and after their terms 
of service. Because there are approximately
20,000 applicants to the Peace Corps each year 
and about only 3,000 available positions, the 
Peace Corps must be rather selective when 
choosing volunteers. Applicants with skill in 
technical areas are especially in demand. 
Knowledge of a language such as French or 
Spanish is also helpful. Wright claims that 
applicants from Carnegie Mellon are gener
ally top notch. This month Denise Scobee, a 
1987 graduate with a BS in Electrical/Bi
omedical Engineering, will be leaving for the 
Fiji Islands for her assignment as a math 
teacher of high school and first year university 
students. John Martin Seitz, a 1987 graduate 
with a degree in Architecture is now working 
in New Guinea on a Public Health/Water 
Sanitation Program advising and training vil
lage leaders and initiating projects. Another 
Carnegie Mellon graduate, Edward A. Link, 
has recently left for Botswanata to assume a 
position teaching art to high school students.
Those interested in serving as a Peace Corps 
volunteer should apply nine to twelve months 
prior to availability to start training. More 
information about the Peace Corps may be 
obtained in the Career Services Center or by 
contacting Shawn Wright at 687-7424.
became Indiana Jones.
Were closing in on the present. I was Indi
ana Jones until about three years ago when I 
discovered the early James Bond movies. 
Thats when I became James Bond (the Con
nery Bond, never the Moore Bond, and only 
early Connery at that). Recently, I became 
Captain Kirk again with a vengeance. When 
dialing the telephone to talk to my sister (for 
example) Id say things like, Lieutenant 
Uhura, open a hailing frequency. When 
microwaving a frozen dinner, Id say, Scotty, 
I need more power!
All this is about to change, though. A change 
of superhero has been in the wind for me for a 
while now. I began to think about who my 
next alter ego should be. I briefly tested being 
the I Spy guys, but not enough people re
member this exellent television show. I 
thought a logical next choice would be Cap
tain Picard from the new Starship Enterprise, 
but first of all I have hair, and second of all 
when I tried being Picard, all I could make 
myself say was, Hey, crew, lets lounge 
around on this sofa and fly half-heartedly 
around the galaxy for a while, in a booming 
voice which disturbed the neighbors.
I finally decided on being the President of 
the United States. Why, itll be great. Every
thing I do will be controversial. Suppose, for 
instance, that I do something illegal. Why, 
heck, I can just pass the buck, and some other 
poor slob will be the scapegoat! (You may 
think Im referring to President Reagans 
habit of stealing candy bars. He has a two 
hundred member panel consisting entirely of 
twelve-year-olds. Every time Ronald Reagan 
gets caught stealing a Twix bar or a package of 
Skittles," his favorite, he gives another one 
of these twelve-year-olds to the courts.) Of 
course, if I decide to become President 
continued on page 19
How to Make a Million
While the work study program here at 
Carnegie Mellon is not designed to place 
students in the top ten net income percen
tile, there are other ways to make some 
extra money. With a little application, hard 
work and entrepreneurial talent a student 
could rival even the great Andrew Carne
gie in economic achievement. Although
By Sara Flynn
Andrew Carnegie had something of an ad
vantage being exempt from income tax and 
labor laws, todays entrepreneur should 
not be deterred.
The rewards and advantages of becoming 
a self-made man or woman are endless. 
Not only does it enable the entrepreneur to 
impress friends and acquaintances with his 
or her increased income, it also lends an 
aura or mystique to conversation. People 
will puzzle Where did Fred get His Vi
sion? as they sit in Scotland Yard, Fred 
just having picked up the check on his huge
Validine account. Of course Fred, the en
trepreneur, must refer to this Vision fre
quently in conversation. Especially when 
he finds himself with attractive single 
women.
The other day, as I was mulling over my 
history reading I realized that Mussoiini 
and I share many similar interests. Then 
as the girl sits agog Fred interjects a subtle 
reference to his vision. We share ideas in 
leadership, but I think Im a little bit more 
committed to my business. After all, Car
negie Mellon is simply a wasteland wait
ing to be developed by the right man.
Of course, Fred thinks of himself as The 
Right Man and while this may or may not 
be true, Carnegie Mellon is a community 
with a captive audience and an individual 
could take advantage of this. Everybody in 
this audience follows the same trends. It is 
this premise upon which Fred built his 
empire. Say he produced a laundry deter
gent which became very fashionable and 
all students found it necessary to use. If he 
marketed his Dirt-Out or WhiteyWhite not only would he become revered 
and respected he would also make quite a 
continued on page 18

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanNovember 3,1987
A place to shmooz...Hang Out On Deck
BY EDDIE FLUSS
Special to the Tartan 
What would make Carnegie Mellon a better 
place? That was the question asked in a letter 
I received this summer from the administra
tion. I did not give it much thought then, but 
since my time at this institution is limited, I 
have started to think about what could have 
made my years at Carnegie Mellon better. 
Scenario 1:
Its Sunday morning and you wake with a 
yawn. You crack open your eyes to bright sun 
warming your face. You say to youself, Study? 
Today? No way! Im gonna lay out and catch 
some rays! But where you ask? A voice from 
the future whispers, The Deck.
Scenario 2:
Okay, so you need to study, but a bite of 
brunch in the sun with your sweetie would be 
just the right way to start that study day. But 
where? you ask. A voice from the future 
whispers, The Deck.
Imagine this: A large wooden deck, with 
lounge chairs, chaise lounges, picnic tables, 
umbrellas, etc. A place to shmooz (general 
term for all casual conversation) with friends 
before, between, or after classesan alterna
tive to Flagstaff. A place to soak up the sun in 
comfort with easy access to food and drink. It 
could even be fun without the sun. In the 
evening with those tacky red and green lan
tern-type lights, the Deck could be a great 
place to watch those nocturnal sports mid
night tennis and late night stock car races in 
the Morewood parking lot.
But whereshould the deck be located? Two 
perfect locations are atop the Morewood Cafe
teria and Rec room, or overlooking the tennis 
courts along the small hillside on one-tree 
hill. A deck would be relatively inexpensive 
to build and would be a great place to enjoy the 
weather all year. If skiers sun along a ski slope 
in Colorado, why not hang out on deck 
during the winter in Pittsburgh.
In the case of The Deck at Morewood, a set 
of stairs could be built along the side of the 
Morewood parking lot, thus providing easy 
and safe entry and exit. In the case of The 
Skibo/Court Deck, a big deck built out over
If skiers sun along a ski slope 
in Colorado, why not hang out 
on deck9 during the winter in 
Pittsburgh? .
the hillside would be a great spot for those 
Tartan picnics. Move an HB Quicks cart out 
onto the deck and in a jiffy youve got the next 
UDS hotspot, Picnic Plus.
As for problems facing such a project, there 
is, of course, the question of money and the 
chance that some student will try to fly off such 
a deck. A large rail and some signs saying DO 
NOT SIT ON THE RAIL should satisfy the 
insurance companies. As for the issue of 
money; well, money is a Cyert-type ques
tion.
If this idea is a flop so be it. I am an aged 
senior whose time has passed. I can only hope 
there is a freshman who can use this idea as a 
proposal for a Strategies paper.
Business 
Opportunities 
Conference 1987Job Fair for all under
graduate students interested 
in a business career.
Thursday, Nov. 5th 
11 AM 5PM 
Skibo Ballroom
Sponsored by AIME.
/i PAYIISS 521-5700
MM CAR RENTAL
mi ALSO DBA HOLIDAY* fWLESS RENTACAROur Name Says It All i
5600 Wilkins Ave. Pgh. Pa. 15217 (Squirrel Hill)
 Low Daily - Weekly Rates . Weekend Specials
 Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students' and Parents' cards accepted.)
15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also
 1/2 mile from Campus
liii i irl  i.ir. TJi -----jruKrumwonawioe 101 v roc ncscrvauons
1-800-237-2804 orCal ttwrtBvd AgentrafaNedyy wsypeDy seJayf,ga I
CMU vs. Pitt: Food Fight!
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor
A guy I know says there are two things all 
Carnegie Mellon students have in com
mon: they dont talk English good and they 
complain about the food. Well, the English 
issue can be decided by a simple glance at 
CMUs median SAT verbal score, but the 
second point needed in-depth research. Is 
Carnegie Mellons food below par?
I thought a simple comparison was in 
order. So, on one sunny day last week, a 
non-partisan panel of culinary experts and 
I descended from the hills of Oakland into 
the land of easy grade point averages and 
low tuition to compare Pitts food with 
ours.
Pitt food is served in two cafeterias. The 
one we went to is located below a round 
housing structure known simply as Tower 
A. The name of the cafeteria is even sim
plerPitt students refer to it as the cafete
ria. Maybe it does have a real name, but 
every student that I asked, including the girl 
who takes meal cards, didnt know if there 
was any other name. The other cafeteria, 
for the curious, is called the other cafetena.
Before entering the actual cafeteria, you 
must first check all bookbags and purses 
with a guy who is wearing a blue shirt that 
says Pitt Checker on it. In return you 
receive a small piece of paper with a num
ber.
A Pitt lunch costs $3.10, which is cheaper 
than the $3.65 Kiltie charges. To buy a 
lunch (the meal-card-taker couldnt be
lieve we actually wanted to pay for them) 
you must go upstairs to the food contract 
office, where they will take your money 
and give you a meal ticket. Pitt students 
charge their meals on cards which are simi
lar to CMU dining cards. According to one 
Pitt freshman I talked with, Pitt meal plans 
come in 19,14, or 10 meals per week. There 
is no a la carte food and no validine. Even 
so, one Pitt student I talked to complained 
about the price of food for a semester.
After entering the cafeteria (which con
sists of handing your meal card to a girl with 
a shirt marked Pitt Checker), students 
proceed tovone of several cafeteria lines. 
There they get a salad, entree, and dessert. 
To get drinks, they go to a island in the 
middle of the cafeteria. Drinks come in two 
flavors: carbonated (like Coke or Sprite)
and milk. As far as we could tell, those are 
the only choices. (It was comforting to 
discover that Pitt serves its drinks in the 
same non-descript glasses found in Kiltie.)
The Pitt cafeteria is circular, containing a 
second circular wall in the center, making 
it doughnut-shaped. It has booths against 
both the inner and outer walls, as well as 
tables between. The floor is cafeteria-style 
tile, and the lightingperhaps in an at
tempt to escape the cafeteria feelis 
subdued and directional. There are no 
windows. The walls and ceiling are 
painted shades of blue, and plants are stra
tegically placed throughout the room. 
Nothing absorbs sound, and we felt the 
cafeteria was much louder than Kiltie.
After getting our food, we sat down at one 
of the four-person tables on molded fiber
glass chairs. On one side of us, a group of 
about seven Pitt students were playing 
cards; otherwise, most students were eat
ing alone or in pairs.
The food was good, but we felt it was 
noticeably poorer than Carnegie Mellons. 
Square pizza (as opposed to pizza-shaped 
pizza) was one of the choices on the day we 
went. Heather and Suethe other 
judgestold me it wasnt as good as 
MorePizza. I had a fish sandwich which 
was very similar to those served from time 
to time in Kiltie. It seemed to have been 
cooked about two hours before I arrived. A 
salad bar in the serving line offers about the 
same stuff as the Kiltie salad bar, with 
about the same quality. The most notice
able difference is in the desserts. Choices 
were extremely limited, and after one bite 
of my tired cherry pie I decided I was full. 
(After looking at the desserts, neither 
Heather nor Sue decided to risk it.)
We felt that there were several itemsat 
Pitt that would be nice to see at Kiltie. Al
though we did not try it, cereal is available 
in a great selection. And in addition to the 
hard ice cream found at Kiltie, Pitt pro
vides a soft ice cream machine.
How do Pitt students feel about their 
food? Its bad, one freshman told me. A 
junior agreed. Its the same processed 
food every daytheres no variety. Even 
the girl who takes the meal cards agreed. I 
live in an apartment and cook my own 
food, she told me. The stuff here gets old 
real quick.
I guess there isnt much difference.
O
Tips on Getting Rich Quick
continued from page 17
bit of extra income.
A wonderful scheme, but who has the deter
gent making facilities readily available? Not 
many, but that shouldnt discourage the true 
professional thinker. After conducting exten
sive research throughout the community in an 
attempt to pinpoint the needs which a shrewd 
entrepreneur might serve, we came up with 
the following list:
1. Hair Spray for Pitt girls. If one hairspray 
were designated It/ the distributor could 
amass a fortune. Imagine all that hair craving 
your product... The riots in Oakland when the 
shopkeepers announce theyve run out of 
Extra Hold and Extra Body Spritz and 
Spray. It could be revolutionary.
2. Another product that would remain in 
constant demand: Beer Off removes the 
stickiness, the mess and the smell of old ale 
from walls, clothes, hands, floors, shoes, car
pets and breath. Enables socialization without 
the historical implications.
3. The Serf. An indentured servant that car
ries books, keys, ID cards, Mac disks, etc. The 
Serf does laundry, carries your tray in Kiltie,
and gets sodas, delivering them to you at your 
terminal, or desk.
Of course the plebian wants still abound 
around campus. The miscellaneous demands 
that arise could be serviced by a smart entre
preneur.
1. Correcting grammar, spelling, punctua
tion, sentence structure and content while 
typing papers.
2. Word adding or substitution. Replacing - 
words in papers and assignments with better, 
more effective and more apparently intellec
tual words. For example He looked at the 
shells replaced by He perused the crusta
ceans.
3. Delivering love letters. This job involves 
complex writing, reading, and footwork 
skills. The rewards are tremendous, but 
largely of a personal nature. The entrepreneur 
composes the love letter, writes it, and then 
drops it off to the victim. He or she then 
contacts the sender (the entrepreneur) and a 
date is made!
Go to it! Boost your earnings, increase your 
number of friends, get that lovelife into gear. 
As an entrepreneur, You Can Make A Million.

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage 19
RPfmnir ir FPIr8y cyDssy7 FmPy3f 2iy PrN FmPyHf 0iy
BY JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Is your idea of high fashion sleek styles 
straight from Paris gracing the covers of 
Vogue and GQ or dragging out your best pair 
of cords from the dirty laundry pile? Well, 
whether you go to your 8:30 class in your 
favorite Laura Ashley dress or in your 
iiDoy friends sweats, youre probably at least 
mildly interested in what clothing crazes are 
sweeping the nation. In an effort to keep your 
finger on the throbbing pulse of fashion (in 
Shady side anyway), I took to Walnut Street 
and asked merchants whats hot and whats 
not.
At Surrey (Bellefonte Place), Carol Hackett, 
buyer for the Young Contemporary section 
\<women aged 18 to 28), says the hottest thing 
this fall and winter is, of course, the miniskirt 
in materials such as leather and suede. Cotton 
twills and knits in dull, muted colors such as 
tobacco (similar to a burnt orange) are also in 
style. Baggy, cotton pull-on pants and cropped 
tops for an easy, slouchy look, says Hackett, 
are a very popular look with students because 
they're easy to take care of and comfortable. A 
i' ong shirt over a mini and a cropped top with 
long, baggy pants are trendy combinations. 
Leather bomber jackets also sold phenome
nally well.
As accessories, wooly, challis scarves, 
chunky earrings and opaque pantyhose in all 
colors are hot items. Hackett gives acid 
washed denim (which she sees as on the de
cline) the thumbs down. Asked to predict for 
J pring, Hackett thinks walking shorts in 
beautiful fabrics such as linen, silk, and 
poplin will be in.
Manager Maria Cutruczula at Benetton 
(5512 Walnut Street) agrees that minis and
photo by Glenn Schuster
Manager Carol Hackett shows off 
Surreys latest fashions.
cropped sweaters are hot this season, espe
cially in muted colors like mustard and brown. 
The layered look, mixing cropped and over
sized shirts with baggy pants, is the way to go. 
To accessorize, use scarves, thick cummer
bund-like elastic belts, flats, printed socks, 
cotton tights, ankle boots, and slip on shoes. 
The Glen Plaid coat (with black and white 
plaid) and long, boxy coats are two best 
sellers. Long, wrap skirts and jackets long in 
the front and short in the back are becoming 
popular. For the spring line, Cutruczula sees 
off the shoulder shirts with the mini and 
smaller earrings as accessories.
At The Lodge at Harvard Square (5530 
Walnut Street), manager Cathleen Walker 
says that for men, acid washed jeans and 
jackets are still popularrThe two-piece Buga
boo jacket with its Buffalo check plaid, zip-in 
lining offers a sporty, casual look. This season
men prefer the more comfortable cotton 
sweaters over the itchy wool ones. A variety of 
T-shirts and sweatshirts with designs are still 
annual favorites. Suspenders are hot accesories.
Women are wearing minis in red and green 
Tartan plaid, as well as denim with boxy, 
cropped sweaters and oversize sweat shirts in 
Canton cotton. Baggy pants feature a paper 
bag waistcinched-in and gathered at the 
top, getting fuller at the bottom. Hot accesso
ries include small handbags, scarves, big bar
rettes, pins, and earrings. Leather boots in 
different styles are still extremely popular.
For those who prefer an alternative to main
stream fashion trends, The Vamp (5437 Wal
nut Street) offers wearable rarities, featur
ing 60s evening wear, cashmere overcoats, 
and rhinestone jewelry.
For you swashbuckling, adventurous types, 
Banana Republic (5534 Walnut Street) has a 
wide variety of safari and travel clothing. If 
youre looking for something khaki or some
thing that looks like Indiana Jones might wear 
it, youll find it here.
Now that you have the fashion update and a 
few predictions for spring, you can can amaze 
your friends and family with your new found 
fashion expertise.
The Features Staff meets 
every Monday at 5 p.m. in 
the Tartan Office. Join us!
Wanted:
2sDi yi 2nDs
continued from page 17
Reagan, then as time goes by, I will 
lose potency as the intelligence of the 
things I do becomes more and more 
open to question. People will begin to 
speculate if I am senile. Im only 
twenty-one! Come to think of it, I 
wouldnt be President Reagan for all 
the tea in, uh, whatever that countrys 
called.
So who can my next superhero be? 
Im open to suggestions.
Ive got it. Ill be Bill Cosby. That 
way, Ill fulfill my desire to be one of 
the I Spy guys, but at the same time, 
I can become a nationally beloved 
father figure. (A proposed law, now 
under discussion in the House of Rep
resentatives, makes loving Bill Cosby 
mandatory, under penalty of up to five 
hundred dollars and/or six months in 
jail [c.f. House bill HR-78593]. Presi
dent Reagan has been quoted as say
ing, Sure, if it passes in Congress, Ill 
sign it into law. I love that old 
crooner!)
Nah, being Bill Cosby is just not for 
me. Maybe Ill be Captain Picard after 
all.
There, Ive met the deadline, now I 
can get back to my youth.
Warp factor, Captain?
Oh, I dont know, Mister Worf. 
Warp three, or four, I dont really 
care.
m
E
V 
 Ev^VAV<;'
Thursday, November 5 
4-6pm 1 #
Scotland Yard I
Come meet your senators!
Free Food
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 3,1987
Wednesday, November 4:
Western Pennsylvania and the 
Constitution: 1785-1800, a speech given 
by Dr. Van Beck Hall of the University of 
Pittsburgh. The second lecture in a threepart series presented by The Historical 
Society of Western Pennsylvania, located 
at 4338 Bigelow Boulevard in Oakland. 
Cost is $2 to non-members. Call 681-5533 
for more information. - 
Thursday, November 5:
Artist Larry Cressman speaks about his 
site-specific installation for CMUs Hewl
ett Gallery, located on the first floor of the 
College of Fine Arts. 7:00 p.m. in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall.
The Safe Sex Symposium, sponsored by 
the Carnegie Care Unit 6:30-8:30 p.m. in 
Wean Hall 7500.
Deborah Ford and the Off-Track Dance 
Company will perform at 4:00 p.m. at the 
Ridge Avenue Theater at the Allegheny 
Campus of the Community College of 
Allegheny County. Call 237-2643 for 
more information. Free.
Tuesday, November 10:
You Can Do It, a one-day workshop for 
women seeking change in their lives, at 
Carlow College. Cost is $15, which in
cludes lunch. RSVP at 578-6094. 
Gwendolyn Elliott, night watch com
mander of Pittsburghs Public Saftey 
Department, will speak on Challenges 
Faced by Women in Non-traditional Pro
fessions. Sponsored by Squirrel Hill 
Chapter of the National Organization for 
Women. 7:30 p.m. at the Sixth Presbyte
rian Church located at Forbes and Murray 
Avenues.
Wednesday, November 11:
Preventing Nuclear War The First Es
sential Step, an Armistice Day discussion 
of a film narrated by Paul Newman. Noon 
to 1:00 p.m. in the Board Room of the 
YMCA, 30 Blvd. of the Allies. Free. 
Friday, November 13:
Dr. Robert Sternberg from Yale Univer
sity will speak on Expertise and Knowl
edge Acquisition in the Adamson Wing of 
Baker Hall at 1:00 p.m.
What Ever Happened to the Womens 
Page? a discussion of women and the 
newsmedia. Moderated by Sally Wiggin, 
WTEA-TV Anchor. Held in Pitt Class
room C (Ninth floor, Kaufmanns Down
town) from noon to 1:00p.m. Costis$4.50, 
and includes a box lunch. Call 232-2615 
for reservations.
Thursday, November 19:
The Twelve Nights of Christmas, South 
Craig Streets 1987 Light Up Nights, be
gins 6:00-8:00 PM. The Honorable Rich
ard S. Caligiuri is scheduled to throw tho 
switch to make South Craig Street glow 
for the holidays. Other festivities will in
clude refreshments and entertainment as 
well as an ornament contest in which local 
pre-school and elementary school children 
have been invited to participate. Cash 
prizes will be awarded for the three most 
unique ornaments and all ornaments will 
be donated to Childrens Hospital.
ps .sd Sy,ea
about
people you see?
dossier is currently accepting submissions for the November issue 
Submissions should be sent to dossier 
c/o The Tartan 
Room 103 
Skibo 
Or dropped off at The Tartan 
Room 50 
Skibo
Deadline is November 8 
For more information contact Michele Osherow
681 8705
dossier
lbvhTz v m T h # ChubDP
WRCT Presents... 
Freedom of Speech
A Talk Show of Political Diversity 
"Where the Sh*t Hits the Fan."
Monday Evenings  8:30 PM
Featuring opinions from the left and right. 
Call-ins welcome. 
Tune in 88.3 FM, your campus station.
Software Engineers
CLARIS Corporation, Apples new software subsidiary, 
is seeking creative, hands-on managers and engineers 
with text, graphics and/or database software develop
ment experience to develop Macintosh M applications.
All positions require a BS (MS preferred) in elec
trical engineering or computer science, or equivalent, 
and 5 + years development experience using C, Pascal 
or 68000 assembly languages on bit mapped work
station applications like MacWrite or MacDraw. 
Experience with Macintosh is desirable. In addition, 
management positions will require 3 + years in a 
supervisory capacity.
If you are motivated by direct involvement and 
the opportunity to make a meaningful contribution in a 
dynamic development environment with a unique 
start-up, send your resume with SALARY HISTORY 
AND REQUIREMENTS to CLARIS Corporation, c/o 
20525 Mariani Ave., MS23-SS, Dept. 10-11, Cupertino, 
CA 95014. EOE.
198' Apple Computer. Inc Apple and the Apple logo are 
registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc.
Macintosh. MacWrite. MacDraw are 
trademarks licensed to Apple Computer. Inc.
Funded by Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage 21
Society for Creative Anachronism Re-Creates Other Ages
BY BRIAN THOMAS SCHMIDT
Tartan Staffwriter 
Of all the clubs active at CMU, one of the 
most unique and curious is The Society for 
Creative Anachronism (SCA). According to 
its charter, SCA is an international, non
profit, educational, social, and recreational 
organization devoted to the re-creation of the 
{lifestyle, arts, crafts, and occupations of the 
medieval period. Its aim is to re-enact the 
Middle Ages as they should have been, 
centering mainly on pre- 17th century Western 
Europe, but other times (up to roughly 1650) 
and cultures (Japanese, Cavaliers, Incan, Afri
can, etc.) are also represented. Members de
vise their own characters and personas that are 
much like people who would have lived during 
{ the times of the culture they wish to represent, 
taking these on as their identity during club 
activities and doing things these people would 
have done.
The initial impression is one of a very strange 
activity and peopleand in a way, this is true.
The members of 
SCA have some 
different hobbies 
and interests, 
which is part of 
the reason why 
they join. It gives 
them the oppor
tunity to be in
volved with oth
ers who have 
similar interests.
We get all 
kinds of people, 
says club presi
dent Cindy Con
nelly, Everything from lawyers and ac
countants to machinists, and, of course, 
students. Most of our students are science 
majors, Connelly says. Members range in 
age from 6 months to 70, but in the Pittsburgh 
area chapter, they average between 20 and 35.
What is it about this club that turns these
SOCIETY FOR 
CREATIVE 
ANACHRONISM
people on? The 
20th century is a 
nice place to live, 
but it's boring to 
visit, explains 
Connelly. SCA 
is a good way to 
combine your in
terests with some 
good old-fash
ioned escapism 
and its cheaper 
than drugs, and 
legal, too. Its also 
a real friendly 
group. I think 
thats an attraction for a lot of students. Theres 
a real sense of community. For CMU students 
this is especially convenient because many of 
the clubs local activities take place on the 
CMU campus. Anyone who is interested is 
welcome to come hang out, watch us practice, 
and ask questions, she said.
Such practices are a big part of the clubs 
activities . Members practice fighting, danc
ing, and many other activities. We practice 
fighting because you have to be authorized by 
our fighting marshalls (referees) to compete in 
a toumey, Connelly explains. The fights in
volve the use of armor and weapons made out 
of rattan or fencing foils. Dancers rehearse by 
running through all the moves carefully before 
trying them out.
The clubs regular weekly meetings to prac
tice its various activities are a good place for 
outsiders to find out what the group is all 
about. The best place to find us is to come to 
our fighting practices. Currently, were hold
ing practices in the gymnasium in Thistle 
Hall. Joint general meetings involving 
groups from Pitt, CMU, and other area col
leges are held in room 225C Baker Hall, the 
second Wednesday of every month. If you are 
interested in finding out more about the group, 
feel free to attend one of these meetings or 
contact Connelly at 687-5808.
You Have the Answers.
The real-world problems of government, industry 
and commerce demand solutions. Quick, effective 
solutions. TASC solutions.
For over two decades, TASC has applied innovative, 
computer-based analytic methodologies to the 
understanding and optimization of complex systems. 
Were committed to putting knowledge to work in 
unconventional ways. The possibilities are endless. 
And they depend on people like you. People with the 
independent thought and analytic abilities that have 
fostered at TASC a unique combination of advanced 
technology and problem-solving techniques.
Here, we offer a small-team environment, project 
follow-through, interdisciplinary contacts and inhouse educational opportunities. Our project diversi
ty calls for flexibility, objectivity, and the ability to 
expand your knowledge in a variety of ways to 
discover real answers to complex systems problems.
Academically, 75% of our staff are at the MS and PhD 
level. And we provide them with superior technical 
and administrative support and the latest computer 
hardware/software. We use state-of-the-art methods 
from estimation, control and optimization theory to 
advanced modeling and simulation techniques  
many of which were developed at TASC. Its a 
dynamic, challenging environment where the in
dividual makes a difference. And we have openings 
in Boston, Washington D.C., and Dayton.
If youre receiving an MS or PhD in Electrical 
Engineering, Computer Science or Operations 
Research, the world could use the answers 
you can provide through TASC.
TASC will be interviewing on-campus shortly, 
and will also host an information meeting on 
the evening before our interview. See your 
placement office for details.
v8h zPzl:vbR uRbhPRhu RkTFkTzvbkP
55-Walkers Brook Drive 
Reading. MA 01867
\n Kqual Opportunity Kmployt-r. Nl K 
I S C iti/rnship n-quiri-d

---------------------------------------------------

OUR EQUIPMENT INCLUDES: NAUTILUS
POWERMASTER 
FREE WEIGHTS 
STATIONARY BIKES 
ALSO AVAILABLE: TOWEL SER VICE
CLEAN SHOWER FACILITIES
LOCKERS
COME BY FOR A TOUR AND SIGN UP FOR YOUR 
COMPLIMENTARY ORIENTATION AND WORKOUT 
LOCATION: MARGARET MORRISON PLAZA 
.PHONE#: X8876 CALL TO SET UP A FREE APPOINTMENT!
OFFER EXPIRES NOV. 16, 1987
HOLIDAY MCMIL: dB WEEKS FOR $$7!
at
CMU'S TOTAL FITNESS FACILITY
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE psOO@andrew 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS
System.
iKAttention Students! ! !
The CMU Computer Store will be open on "Parents  
Day Saturday, November 7th from 10 - 2. 
Our sales staff will be available to assist you and 
answer questions.
(PC Repair will not be open, however, you may drop 
off or pick up repairs). 1
Healthful Mondays
Lunchtime Seminar Series
11:45-12:30
Bag a lunch and come over to Skibo 13 to listen and 
participate with exciting speakers who will talk about 
various health-related topics
Bg%
Bid8ysD cyiDs
November 2 
9
16
23
Part Time Athlete: Injuries 
What is Weight Watchers? 
Diet? Nutrition? Lectures 
and Lifestyles?
Stress Management: 
Understanding Causes/ 
Solutions 
AIDS Update
p5q ,M00 k9MWPAene 363-
16 INCH PEPPERONI PIZZA $4 .tax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage 22
Tennis Places 5th in Atlanta
continued from page 28
probably had a problem with her rotator cuff. 
He said that if she strained the muscle during 
play, it might rip. Fibus played her match 
anyway. Luckily, however, from the way 
Fibus was able to dominate play during her 
uoubles, it was hard to tell that she was injured.
Fibus and Boyds semifinal match was 
against New York Universitys Nicole LaGrange and Patty Walsh. The Lady Tartans 
dominated the first set through an incredible 
attacking game by both players followed by 
crisp high volleys. After losing the first set, the 
Violettes saw that they would need a change in 
strategy. They replied with one high lob after 
another. This forced Fibus and Boyd back to 
the base line which took away their net court 
advantage. NYU almost won the second set 
but the Tartans held tough and took the set to 
a tie-breaker. Before LaGrange and Walsh 
even knew the tie-breaker had begun, Carne
gie Mellon had already taken the first four 
points. The early points went swiftly, and 
Boyd was everywhere. Any ball even hit close 
.o her was sent rocketing back for a winner. In 
the end the pair only lost one point in the entire 
tie-breaker. The set ended, 6-3, 7-6 (7-1).
This win earned the team a chance at the 
finals where they faced Brandeiss Noriko 
Kuge and Jill Goldhand. Throughout the 
tournament Brandeis University had domi
nated doubles play: as a result they appeared in 
all three of the doubles championships. Fibus 
ind Boyd jumped out to an early lead which 
they kept for the rest of the match. Only once 
near the end of the second set did they waver. 
All of a sudden when the team began to realize 
that they were on the verge of winning, they 
forgot to continue playing the aggressive 
game that had got them to the finals. This 
allowed Brandeis to make one last attempt at 
getting back in the match. The Tartans rejrouped and finished Brandeis off, and thus, 
won the tournament at #3 doubles. The final 
score was, 6-4, 7-5.
This was the only number one finish for the 
Tartans. However, sophomore Beth Cava
naugh (#2), graduating senior Captain Andrea 
Benowitz (#3), senior Amy Fibus (#4), and 
Tracy Boyd (#5) did finish in fourth for their 
positions. All in all the women played a good
lumament, but in clutch situations the teams 
relative inexperience as compared to the other 
teams showed through. Of all the teams pres
ent Carnegie Mellon competes in the easiest 
conference, they have just about the worst 
tennis facilities, and they practice less than 
most of the other teams due to the amount of 
rain and the lack of access to indoor courts. 
Time after time the women played as well as 
( hey have played all season only to be denied 
the win by their more experienced opponents. 
I wish we could have had this caliber of 
competition all season long. Better competi
tion would have better prepared us for this 
tournament, commented Cavanaugh.
After the first day of competition the Lady 
Tartans were in fourth place. The Lady Tar
tans fared much better the first day than was 
Axpected. They won 4 out of their singles 
matches and 1 out of their 3 doubles matches. 
At #3 singles, team captain Benowitz, playing 
in her last collegiate tournament, convincingly 
destroyed her Case Western opponent in a 6-0, 
6-0 match. I let her make all the mistakes, 
Benowitz explained, She was very erratic. I 
was going to the net and I got all of my points 
there. 1 was so happy.
QOn the other hand, Tracy Boyd had an ex
tremely difficult first match as she played 
against Washington Universitys Susan 
Frankel. She won the warm up, which made 
me nervous. She was pounding them, but 1 
won the game! Boyd explained after the 
match. Boyd took the first set without any real 
problem, only to find herself in trouble in the
It's the challenge a Grumman mm iwA engineer faces every day We
f f I/yyy COH. demand not only the talent to create 
JT mm j^eas, but also the tenacity to improve
them. That's why we attract engineers who are hard to please - and 
hard to beat. If you're one of them, and you want to choose from various 
engineering positions, let us know Send your resume to Employment 
Manager, Mail Station C07-GHQ, Dept. AK, Grumman Corporation, 
Bethpage, Long Island, NY 11714-3586. Only GRUMMAN
GRUMMAN
second set 5-5. Boyd broke serve making the 
score 6-5. On the changeover as Frankel hit 
the balls over to Boyd, she hit a lob that landed 
squarely in the middle of Boyds head, result
ing in a thud that could be heard across the 
courts. After the match Boyd explained, 
That girl had the best serve that I have ever 
seen. She is better than anyone I have played 
this season. She hit me on the head and I still 
beat her. 1 was really centered on this match.
At #1 doubles, Dottor and Cavanaugh just 
couldnt get their game together. It wasnt 
until they were down 4-1 before they realized 
they needed to get in the set. They did salvage 
two more games, only to lose the set 6-3. They 
did start out strong in the second set and 
jumped out to a large 3-0 lead. Inconsistency 
problems began to plague the tandem and all of 
a sudden the score was 5-6. At 2-3 in the game 
the team won a point that seemed to have 
lasted most of the afternoon. However, they 
lost the next point, and thus, the set. They lost 
the match 6-3,7-5. The team ended up in fifth 
for the tournament after the three days of 
competition.
Without a doubt Emory was the big winner 
on the first day as well as the rest of the tour0. photo by Daryl Thoma#2 Singles Player Beth Cavanaugh during practice. Cavanaugh placed fourth at the UA/ 
Tournament last weekend.
nament. They beat just about anyone who 
walked on the court with them. They usually 
did not take too much time in their effort, 
either. The #2 doubles team of Benowitz and 
Alice Garber faced Emory in the first round. 
The gate had barely swung shut before Emory 
had made short work of the team. Garber com
mented, We were outplayed, over-played, 
and under-played, but we had fun. We were 
slaughtered. They wiped us all over the court. 
All we could do is laugh, stated Garber. You 
just couldn t lose one point to these girls. They
were too good, affirmed Benowitz.
CMU began to have difficulties on the sec 
ond day as they started to play some of the 
better players in the U A A. It was apparent tha 
the Lady Tartans were not used to seeing thi; 
many good opponents in one event. We die 
not lose this tournament, Coach Dave Licht 
man explained, we were beaten by bettei 
experienced national teams. Fifth place is a 
good finish for our team. All our players are 
coming back as much better tennis competi
tors. This was a valuable experience.
A registered trademark of Grumman CorporationGrumman Corporation is an qual opportunity employer U S citi

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanNovember 3,1987
Volleyball Ties For Third In UAA
photo by Stewart Levine
Senior Diane Watson digs a ball during the UAA Volleyball Tournament at Washington
ast week.
X-Country Wins PAC...Again
3y RICH SHIPLEY
"artan Staffer iter
Coach Gary Meckley has yet another trophy 
o add to his rather large collection. The mens 
ross-country team won the PAC championhip again this year at Hiram. The Tartans had 
* total of 22 points, and were trailed by a 
iistant Grove City team with 56. Along with 
he PAC Championship, Meckley won Coach 
>f the Year honors for the PAC.
The only thing the Tartans did not capture 
vas the individual championship, which was 
aken by Hirams Dave Taylor. His winning 
ime was 24:59, a very excellent run by the 
potential All-American. The next four places 
vere all claimed by the Tartans as Keith 
itopen finished second with a time of 25:02.
He was followed by Dave Supp, 25:04, Pat 
Noll, 25:43, and Paul Camine. Carnegie 
Mellons Gary Harrison came in 8th overall, 
while Louie Czak rounded off the Tartan top 
six. Len ONeil was taken to the meet, but did 
not run due to illness. Everyone will be jn top 
shape for the NCAA regionals on November 
14th.
The race was run very strong and consis
tently from start to finish. As a result, Meckley 
was very happy with the individual perform
ances and is looking forward to a strong show
ing at the regionals and hopefully the nation
als. The first mile was run in 4:31, and fol
lowed by a time of 9:34 at the two-mile 
marker. They finished out the race with con
sistent 5-minute miles.
continued from page 28
ing points to pull the Lady Tartans to a 12-7 
lead.
However, after the first big climb up, came 
the first drop. The Lady Spartans reeled off 
five straight points to even the game, and Case 
went on to win, 15-13.
Next, it was time for the Lady Tartans to go 
back up. Behind the seven straight serving 
points of captain Zalevsky, Carnegie Mellon 
stormed back to a 15-9 victory in the second 
game of the best of three match.
The rubber game was another close affair, 
but the Lady Spartans pulled out a 15-11 
decision. The Lady Tartans hadnt seen any of 
their UAA opponents before, but Case had 
played several common opponents, most re
cently, Thiel College. We knew Thiel beat 
Case, we took them for granted, remarked 
Kristine Loh.
The next portion of Carnegie Mellons ride 
was against the third-seeded New York Uni
versity Violettes. NYU had also lost its 
opener, 15-10,15-3 to second-seeded Roches
ter. The Tartan Coaster was onto riding its 
next crest.
The first game started with a whole new team 
in Carnegie Mellon red and white. The Lady 
Tartans took the first game, 15-8. The second 
game was never in doubt, Carnegie Mellon 
jumped out to a commanding 10-0 lead over 
the Violettes, winning 15-5.
NYU Head Coach Cindy McGuire was at a 
loss for words after her teams second loss. 
Theres a missing piece. Its the same people, 
same team, maybe its the airplane ride, maybe 
theyre nervous. Weve beaten teams that are 
better than weve seen today.
Watson offered another explanation, After 
we made a mistake, we didnt make another. 
Tartan Coach Sue Flaherty added, (it was) 
communication, team work, basic skills. 
Everyone was anxious early.
The next morning, the Lady Tartans played 
their final preliminary game. Facing them 
were the second-seeded Rochester Yellowjackets. The Yellowjackets had won both
games on Friday, and they were ready to knock 
Carnegie Mellon for a loop-the-loop.
The Lady Tartans were no match for Roches
ter, who was ranked fourth in the cont 
iivision III Northeast region. Led by captain 
Heide Balfe and junior middle hitter Diane 
Ulatowski, the Yellowjackets rolled over 
Carnegie Mellon, 15-6, 15-2.
Rochester Head Coach Bob Brewington felt 
the Lady Tartans looked lost in their match. 
In the second game, they looked like they 
were getting steam-rollered, they just gave up 
We started rolling, we played more confi
dently.
The opening games were used to seed the 
eight squads for single-elimination play. The 
Lady Tartans were seeded second from Pool B 
behind Rochester which had won all three of 
its matches, but ahead of NYU and Case.
Carnegie Mellons first elimination match 
came against the University of Chicago Ma
roons. Back the Lady Tartans went, to climb 
the final hill.
Chicago was never in the first game against 
a more intense Carnegie Mellon six. Good net 
play by McCandless and freshman middle 
hitter Nicole Hanak helped build a 4-1 lead 
which quickly ballooned to 14-3.
The Lady Tartans went on to win the opener 
15-6 and took the second game, 15-9.
The final plunge came against the hosting 
Washington Bears. The top-seeded, and na
tionally ranked, Bears had already mowed 
down Brandeis, Emory, Chicago, and Case 
Western.
Carnegie Mellon took the first point, but th 
disciplined Washington squad was simply 
better. The Bears quickly won the first game, 
15-4.
In the second game it was no different. 
Washington won that game, 15-7.
For Washingtons Head Coach Ten Cle
mens, it was her 99th victory in only three 
years as the Bears Coach. She got her 100th 
in the championship when the Bears defeated 
Rochesters Yellowjackets for the fourth time 
this season, 15-10,15-7,15-9.
Coach Flaherty seemed pleased with the Tar
tans third place finish in the tournament. I 
thought we did really well, she remarked. 
Captain Zalevsky agreed, It was our best year 
since my freshman year.
Yet, problems still exist. The Lady Tartans 
play largely cm emotion. Said Flaherty, Its a 
lack of self-confidence, we mostly had to work 
on techniques and basic skills this year. They 
were playing basic volleyball.
Flaherty did point out the play of two of her 
seniors. Of Marianne Smith she noted, She 
(Smith) did a real nice job, shes real depend
able at any point in the game. Zalevsky drew 
these comments, Shes a really good leader, 
we could play without her, but not as well.
That though, is exactly what Carnegie Mel
lon will have to do next season. The Lady 
Tartans did that early this year when Zalevsky 
went down with an ankle injury. Then, the 
leadership role was taken over by Watson, 
who will again have to take that role next year.
Im going to do a lot of recruiting this fall, 
acknowledges Flaherty, the team is going to 
look a lot different next year. Despite this, the 
first-year coach seems optimistic with regards 
to the future. Since we finished third this year 
(in the UAA), we have to hope for a higher 
record next year. In the PAC (Presidents 
Athletic Conference), I cant see us coming 
any lower than second.
The Lady Tartans finish their season this 
week with a match against Hiram tonight as 
7:00 in the Skibo Gym. Their final road trip 
will be Thursday to Bethany for matches 
against Bethany and Robert Morris.
Natalie Hawryluk contributed toward this 
story.
k
Limit one bear per customer.
$42VMDE
YOURS FOR ONLY $7.99 WITH MINIMUM PURCHASE TOTALING $79.90
THE BEAR 
YOULL LOVE TO HUG

This plush 16" white bear is dressed for Christmas in a bright red 
sweater and hat. Get D.J. Cuddles while quantities last at...
david Weis
INCHP EPIPROZA. N. HtNCN.OPP IAaPEO xCZRPE A.ddd
v iPaPICW v eAtEPaNCPE v RNsPCNEv HZFOaNCP v ExACOZ.H HAAE v IitHHNHPv PIPROCA.ZRE v itVP.ZIP v OAWE

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage 25
Rugby Routs Allegheny
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
In the Rugby teams best performance of the 
season, with all facets of their game clicking, 
the squad beat Allegheny 46-0 on the Intamural field Saturday. From the opening kickoff, 
.vhen Carnegie Mellons Mike Kleha picked 
up a blocked punt and ran it in, the ruggers 
knew they were in control. This was the first of 
three tries scored by Kleha on the day. As the 
Allegheny defense then tried to close up the 
running lanes, CMU exploded with one try 
scored by Eric Hoffman on a blistering run. 
Other scorers included two tries by Pat Flynn, 
and one try apiece by John Ward, Dom Ianno, 
Joe Villarreal and Pete Wolcott.
The success of the A team rubbed off on the 
B team who posted their first shutout in a 15- 
0 romp. Strong running was the key to victory, 
as an impressive game by the backs provided 
the first try when John Lucena put the ball in 
the try zone. The two other tries in the game 
were the cause of strong scrums, who on these 
two occasions pushed the ball into the try zone. 
The scrum also played strong defense by 
winning a decisive majority of the put-ins and
RiiytPII bPDyPrf 
Lifs lr RnrPI 
csJirNf yi F6'
continued from page 28
seemingly accelerating instantaneously out of 
the backfield. His partner in the backfield, 
Rick France, helped some, but it was mostly 
Pagano (30 att., 166 yards) and QB Aigner 
(15-28,219 yards) who led the W&J offense.
, The Presidents scored on their first two pos
sessions of the first half, narrowing the Tartan 
lead to 22-20. CMU struck back after the 
second, with Hensel hitting tight end Tim 
Kelly for a big 52 yard pass to put the ball at the 
15 yard line. 6 plays later, it was 29-20.
What killed the Tartans were two more W&J 
touchdowns in the span of 1:08 early in the 
fourth quarter. Aigner hit Pagano for 57 yards 
~n the first play for a TD, then took advantage 
of a key Hensel fumble on his own 13 yard line 
for another quick score.
Suddenly, there were less than 5 minutes left 
and Carnegie Mellon trailed 35-29. A Gerry 
Bosch interception gave the Tartans the ball 
on their own 46, and they did what they knew 
best: run the ball. Helsel carried the ball in to 
the end zone himself for the touchdown and 
"5-35 lead with only 43 seconds remaining. 
Then the Presidents made their final come
back.
Hensel and Hansen were again the Tartan 
offensive leaders. Hansen led Tartan rushers 
with 103 yards and 2 TDs, followed by 
Hensel's41. Hensel also threw for an even 200 
yards. A lot of the credit for their success goes 
to the Tartan offensive line, which effectively 
-eutralized W&J defensive threats Jim Meyer 
and Marie Kern. The line also didn't allow a 
sack.
The only real losers were the Carnegie Mel
lon fans who stayed away in droves. Washing
ton and Jefferson fans controlled the stands, 
almost negating the CMU home field advan
tage. Despite the perfect weather and bitter 
rivalry between the two teams, most Carnegie 
* lellon students seemed to be in the computer 
clusters instead.
Bits n Pieces: Jim Kelly's 22 yard field goal 
marked the first time the Tartans have scored 
in the first quarter this year...A.J. Pagano's 166 
rushing yards put him over the 1000 mark for 
the season. He is also third in all-time Division 
III scoring...Mike Hensel also acheived a 
milestone Saturday, topping 4000career pass
ing yards.
scrum downs.
With the win, the ruggers move to 5-1 in the 
fall season, and play their last game Saturday 
against Salem.
Soccer Splits 
Another Week
continued from page 28
second half, senior co-captain Kevin Jung 
took a Park pass and converted it for the 
Tartans second goal. Bethany tied the score, 
and regulation ended with a 2-2 tie.
But the Tartans attack, as well as their de
fense, collapsed in overtime, and Bethany 
scored four times to hand the Tartans their 
seventh loss of the season to go with seven 
wins and two ties.
The Tartans will look to finish a disappoint
ing and injury-filled season above the .500 
mark, as they travel to take on St. Vincent 
College today at 3:30.
Field Hockey Third In UAA
By SHAFI KHAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU field hockey team fell short of 
winning the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence by one goal. They lost a tough one to 
Bethany 1-0 at Tech Field and ended up 
second in the PAC with a 4-2 record. Hiram 
claimed the division by a point, sporting a 
4-1-1 record. Overall, the teams final 
record was 5-6-1.
Although Bethany controlled the ball 
early, CMU had numerous opportunities to 
score but failed to capitalize on their drives. 
With about 20 minutes left into the half, 
Bethany scored on a grass-screaming line 
drive that eluded goalie Andi Trump to put 
them up 1-0. A few seconds later, CMU 
missed their best chance to score when 
forward Maya Sternberg had a breakaway 
but her shot was blocked by the goalie.
They missed on another fine drive when a 
Vandermeer shot from the far left just went 
wide of the net.
CMU put on continuous pressure in the 
second half also but couldnt register a 
single goal. Midway through the half,
Maya Sternberg took a comer pass and sent 
a shot wide to the right. Late in the game 
Bethany had a two-on-two breakaway but 
sweeper Hetal Nanavati cleared the ball 
away before Bethany had a chance to 
shoot. CMU missed on its last drive in the 
game when Sheila Bomberger took a shot 
off a Fay comer, but it was blocked away by 
the goalie.
The team traveled to Johns Hopkins, 
where they competed in the UAA Champi
onships. Unfortunately they lost big in both 
games, losing to University of Rochester 4- 
0 and Johns Hopkins 7-0. The scores; 
however, do not tell the whole story. They 
played on artificial turf which they werent 
used to. The team had a total of two hours 
practice on the turf before the game which 
didnt give them much time to soak up the 
experience needed to play on that kind of 
surface. They played with the Yellowjack
ets in terms of pace, but Rochester just took 
advantage of the turf and dominated on the 
accurate, short passing and ball movement. 
U. of Rochester ended up beating Johns 
Hopkins to win the UAA.
Think theres no 
)lace in business 
'or someone 
with a liberal 
arts degree?
Think again.
A Masters from The Annenberg School of Communications, combined with your bachelors degree, can take you into a management career in the mass media or telecommunications.
Heres what some recent graduates of Annenbergs 
Masters in Communications Management are doing:
Suzanne B., B.A., French, U.C. Berkeley
Vice President, Programming Sales, ABC Radio
Steve B., B.A., Fine Arts, Ohio University 
Senior Vice President, Creative Affairs,
Columbia Pictures-TV
Paul D., B.A., English, U. Michigan
Manager, Marketing and Public Policy, Pacific Bell
Sara K., B.A., Political Science, Duke 
Director, Creative Services,
Assoc, of TV Programming Executives
Pam R., B.A., Asian Studies, Mount Holyoke 
Director, Public Relations,
St. Paul Medical Center
Karl K., B.A., Economics, USC
Senior Telecommunications Consultant,
Price Waterhouse
Wendell F., B.A., Radio/TV/Film, Northwestern 
Manager, Audience and Syndication Research, 
Walt Disney Co.
HERE ARE TWO WAYS The Annenberg School, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
prepares graduates for their careers.
Course work in...
  management of media firms
 communications technologies
 law and public policy
 international communications
 diffusion of innovations
 communication in organizations
O On the job learning...
 internships in Los Angeles 
and Washington, D.C.
 job placement, while in school and after
 access to alumni network
Please send me more information. 
Name___________________________
Address
City/State/Zip
Currently Attending
MAIL TO: The Annenberg School of Communications
3502 South Hoover Street, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90089-0281

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanNovember 3,1987
Mark Mittlehauser: PHI Player of the Game
photo by Andy Gillespie
The Tartans congratulate Mark Mittlehauser (26) on his interception against W&J.
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staff\\'riter
When a team loses a second team All-American to injury, it usually begins to worry. But 
that has not been the case at Carnegie Mellon 
in 1987, freshman comerback Mark Mittelhauser has filled in for Billy Cramer in great 
style. Mittelhausers play last Saturday 
against the Presidents was no short of excel
lent, and earned him Panther Hollow Inn [PHI] 
player of the game honors.
The 59", 168 lb. freshman from nearby Indi
ana, Penn, started out his career as a safety. 
When he made the move from Indiana High to 
CMU, the coaching staff moved him to comerback. Mittelhauser was placed behind second 
team All-American Billy Cramer to start the 
season, and did not expect to see much playing 
time this season. But Cramers season has 
been cut short by a broken arm, which has 
thrust the freshman into a very pressure 
packed role. Billy [Cramer] was so intense 
out there, commented Mittelhauser. I have 
never seen anyone want to play the game as 
much as he did. But he taught me a lot in a very 
short time.
Against Washington and Jefferson this past 
week, the Tartans knew they were facing the 
nations second best Division III squad. We 
all knew they were the number two team in the 
country, but the coaches told us that if we 
stayed within striking distance throughout the 
game, we had a decent shot at winning the 
game.
The coaching staff reviewed films of W&J 
contests all season, and had their game plan 
figured out. We were very well prepared by 
the coaches this week. We saw a lot of v. hat 
they talked about in the films. When we got 
out on the field, we felt we could stop them 
cold.
As game time approached, the whole team 
was on edge despite being so well prepared.
Mittelhauser said that he had never been 
more nervous for a game. But right away, the 
Tartans assumed control and had the Presi
dents on the ropes.
In the second quarter, W&J was driving, and 
worked themselves all the way inside the 
Tartan 20 yard line. Then came the key play in 
the half, which earned Mittelhauser PHI 
player of the game honors. President quarter
back Pat Aigner was looking for a touchdown 
on a second and goal from the Tartan seven 
yard line, and called for a pass right at 
Mittelhausers man. Aigner dropped back, 
and the receiver took a step out, then slanted 
inside. I just followed the receiver in, and saw 
the pass coming my way. I just tried to step 
inside and block the pass, but I was able to get 
in front and got the interception.
The interception stopped a key drive for the 
Presidents who were down 10-7 at the time.
Mittelhausers play keyed a Tartan offensive 
surge after the pickoff that culminated in the 
Tartans scoring on a 55 yard pass from Mike 
Hensel to Dean Garofola.
Mittelhausers play on the comer in this 
game was excellent, as the Presidents stayed 
away from his region of the field constantly. I 
didnt have a great game last week, and I 
thought that W&J would key on me based on 
the films.
The Tartan strong comer also had high praise 
for the offense in the game, as he believed they 
played their best game all year. But the bottom 
line is that the Presidents kicked the winning 
field goal with only eight ticks left on the 
clock. When we scored with 49 seconds left, 
we thought we may have given them too much 
time. On the first play that W&J ran, they 
gained 35 yards and we knew that the game 
was far from over.
Sidelines
A Look At the Sports World 
Compiled By PERRY PIERCE
TOP MANAGERS NAMED
In somewhat of a surprise, the Mon
treal Expos Buck Rodgers and Detroits 
Sparky Anderson were named managers 
of the year. Rodgers was also named 
National League manager of the year 
last year. San Fransiscos Roger Craig 
finished second in the National League 
voting ahead of St. Louis Whitey Her
zog. In the American League voting, 
Tom Kelly of the Minnesota Twins, the 
players choice for manager of the year, 
finished third. "
STEELERS SIGN TOP PICK
The Pittsburgh Steelers signed their 
number one draft choice, Ron Woodson 
of Purdue, to a four-year, $2.2 million 
contract. The world-class hurdler has 
started practicing with the club and 
hopes to be in game condition within a 
month. v
DICKERSON TRADED
The Los Angeles Rams have traded 
Eric Dickerson to the Indianapolis 
Colts. Dickerson, one of the NFLs 
leading rushers every season, was very 
unhappy with the clubs offense. He 
also complained about being underpaid, 
and when the Rams refused to renegotiate his contract, he requested the trade.
In the three-way trade with the Colts and 
Buffalo, the Rams acquired two mnning 
backs and six high draft picks over the 
next two years. The Bills received Cor
nelius Bennett, the #2 draft pick this 
year, for their participation in the deal.
#8 GATEWAY LOSES
Gateway High School in Monroeville 
was one of the top ranked High School 
teams in the country until last week. 
Gateway was ranked ninth in the poll 
going into their game against Woodland 
Hills two weeks ago, but could not come 
out with a win. The 27-21 loss dropped 
Gateway out of the number three in the 
Pennsylvania polls, and third in the na- r 
tion. And last weekend Gateway was 
upset by Central Catholic High School. 
Gateways arch rival, North Hills High 
School, is currently ranked number one 
in the country, and preserved that rank
ing with a 14-0 blanking of Mt. Lebanon 
this past weekend.
SOVIETS NETTED BY BUCKS
The Milwaukee Bucks beat the Soviet 
National basketball team 127-100 this 
past week. The Bucks were playing 
without their top four guards, and had 
only been practicing together for two 
weeks before the game. This game was 
also a big blow to people around the 
world that have wanted to see NBA 
players play in the Olympics. This game 
was just a trial run, and the feeling is that 
the Soviet team is probably the best 
amateur team in the world.
WASH. U. WINS UAA SOCCER
With a 3-0 victory over Emory at 
Francis Field in St. Louis, the Washing
ton University Bears clinched the first 
ever University Athletic Association 
Mens Soccer Title. The Bears are 
ranked ninth in the nation and are look
ing for a birth in the NCAA Playoffs.
The victory was one of two UAA titles 
that Washington clinched at home that 
Saturday as the Volleyball Bears won 
the UAA Volleyball title.

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Sports Calendar
November 3:Soccer vs St. Vincent at Tech Field, 3:30 pm
Volleyball vs Hiram at Skibo Gym, 7:00 pm
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm
Topic: Tartan Hockey
November 7:Football vs Bethany at Tech Field, 1:30 pm (WRCT)
Rugby vs Pitt-Johnstown
Hockey vs John Carroll at Kittanning, 9:45 pm
November 8:Hockey vs John Carroll at Kittanning, 11:15 am
IM Standings
IM News
UP AND COMING SPORTS BULLETINS Chess - Commissioner Matt Murbach x3934
IM BOARD MEETING - Thursday Novem- Play all games as scheduled and report the
ber 5th at 1pm. Gym Conference room is the results as soon as possible to the IM office,
site, BE THERE!
Basketball
Intramural Basketball entries will be taken 
now thru November 19th. Due to the fact that 
next semester is pushed back one week, games 
will begin on January 13th or 14th. In order to 
get the schedules together, the IM department 
needs the entries before the start of winter 
break. The IM department thanks you for your 
cooperation.
Darts - Commissioner Bob Moses 683-8409
The 1987 Intramural Darts season begins 
soon. Schedules will be available this week in 
the office. Please play all matches as sched
uled.
SPORTS IN SEASON BULLETINS
Water Polo - Commissioner Hal Levine 
x5981
Please return all equipment to its proper place 
following the last match of the evening. All 
life guards must have a copy of their current 
Life Guard card on file in the Athletic Office.
Faculty and Staff Tennis
Please report results of all matches to the IM 
office, and please play all games as scheduled.
Team Volleyball - Commissioner Stu Fox 
x4226
Schedules are now available at the IM office, 
and are posted on the IM bulletin board.
3-Person Volleyball - Commissioner Stepha
nie Janczak x4229
Play will begin Thursday, November 12th. 
Please pick up your schedule in the IM office, 
room 101 in the gym, after Wednesday No
vember 4th.
6-Person Volleyball
Playoffs begin November 9th. Champion
ships will be held Wednesday, November 
12th.
Racquetball - Commissioner Carl Bell x5509
Schedules are out and can be picked up at the 
office. Report all final match scores to the IM 
office. Also, any rescheduled matches must be 
made through the IM office.
Team Table Tennis - Commissioner Bob Koca 
x8975
Please pick up all schedules and rules from the 
IM office. All match results should be re
ported to the office as well.
Bowling - Commissioner Randy Brown 
x5501
IM bowling will be at Strand Lanes in 
Oakland, Saturday mornings at 10am. All 
bowling fees will be determined by the num
ber of games that you roll.
The 1987 IM-A11 Start Football teams will be 
announced this week and will be posted on the 
IM bulletin board. The IM department would 
like to thank all the officials that made the 
1987 season such a success.
OTHER IM NEWS
Volleyball and Soccer are the biggest sports 
currently in progress, as the IM department 
has seen record numbers join both leagues. 
The number of 3-Person Voleyball teams has 
grown from last years total of 47, to a new 
record of 70 teams.
The 6-Person volleyball season has come to a 
close, with the playoffs just around the comer. 
CIA and The Club womens teams both have 
undefeated marks headed into the tournament. 
On the mens side Nine Lives, Eulers, Delta 
Upsilon, ECE grads, Sig Tau A, Army ROTC, 
Bunch O Daves, and CIA-A all bring untar
nished records into the finals. The three day 
playoff format will feature the top three teams 
from each intermediate division and the first 
place teams from each of the eight minor 
league divisions. The Majors and Womens 
leagues will have the top two teams from each 
division in the tournament.
Tartan Scores
UAA Volleyball All-Star Teams 
First Team:
Diane Ulatowski, Rochester 
Heide Balfe, Rochester 
Diane Stites, Washington 
Chris Becker, Washington 
Brooke Hortin, Washington 
Lori Nishikawa, Washington (MVP)
Second Team:
Liliane Pouponneau, NYU 
Elaine Cotronakis, Case Westerm 
Marianne Smith, Carnegie Mellon 
Peggy Corrigan, Rochester 
Eka Ertur, Rochester 
Kathy Bersell, Washington
UAA Womens Tennis Champions
#1 Singles: Karen Kirshbom, Emory 
#2 Singles: Judi Goldenberg, Brandeis 
#3 Singles:Wendy Eber, Emory 
#4 Singles: Nicole Sullivan, Emory 
#5 Singles: Julie Lemer, Emory 
#6 Singles: Noriko Kuge, Brandeis 
#1 Doubles: Stem and Goldberg, Brandeis 
#2 Doubles: Kirshbom and Lemer, Emory 
#3 Doubles: Boyd and Fibus, Carnegie Mellon
TENNISMajors-American LeagueWonLoss
PHI KAPPA11
MajorsWonLossTHE TOPSPINNERS20
GSIA NOT MBA50MELLON HEADS10
MIS-N-MATCH42THE PROF. HIT MEN01
PHI KAPPA THETA21KILL SHOTS01
KSA11AEPi01
EUROPEAN TEAM12
GSIAS BIG BOYS01MinorvPacific LeagueWonLoss
GSIA PLUS01THE VOID10
SEI13CSD20
THE B.A.M.F.03PILAM01
SLURPS01
Intermediate AWonLossSMODNOCSI1
PILAM50SHEAR STRESS01
DV01
ATO01VOLLEYBALL
GOLDEN SHOWERS 01
CSO-B01Majors-Womens A.WonLoss
TUDQR01CIA30
MATHLETES21
Intermediate BWonLossDELTA GAMMA03
SIG TAU70ZOO CREWI2
SUPA FUZZBUSTERS12
OUR AD12Majors B.WonLoss
SHIRLEY SLUGS01THE CLUB30
MUDSLINGERS01CS-121
CSO-A03CS-201
THE MIRACLE WHIPS03
RACQUETBALL
Intermediate-Div. CWonLoss
MajorsWonLossSUPA ET AL20
PHI KAP-A20NINE LIVES30
THE TOASTERS31PILAM A21
KAPPA SIGMA20SCOBELL MILKMENI2
PHI KAP-B11TEAM RA12
YASHS CREW01GLOBETROTTERS12
PILAM01CSO (B)03
THE GREAT GUYS01
6-E TEAM A03Intermediate-Div. DWonLoss
EULERS30
MinorsWonLossMECH E., GRAD 130
SIG TAU20ALPHA EPSILON PI21
AFROTC11SEI11
HAMMER SLAMMERS12KSA03
ALPHA EPSILON PI23BUNCH O VBALL PLAYERS 03
DELTA UPSILON20THE NET MONKEYS12
A-CLUB00
6-E TEAM B02Intermediate-Div. EWonLoss
CS-321
TEAM TABLE TENNISSUPA1I
DELTA UPSILON30
Majors-National LeagueWonLossAFROTC21
GSIA20THETA XI12
THE ROGUES10REALISTIC KUMQUATS03
CSO20ORANGE DOTI12
THE 21 S01
FORCE 1002Intermediate-Div. FWonLoss
RMPG. ZULA COMM. AARD. 02ECE GRADS30
PHI KAPPA THETA20
PIONEERS A21
SDC12
CSO12
IM Football Finals
Crunch Bunch, The Squad, 
And Pika Take IM Titles
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Sports Editor
The King is dead! Long live the King!
Monday night, the long time rules of intra
mural major league football finally fell. A 32- 
6 victory over Pika-A gave Crunch Bunch its 
first majors title.
Crunch Bunch got all the points it would 
need on its first drive. An excellent kickoff 
return by John Murray allowed Crunch Bunch 
to punch the ball in two plays later, taking a 7- 
Olead.
Pika closed the gap on their first series, a long 
bomb put them on the.board, but the missed 
point after left them behind 7-6. They would 
never catch up.
Two Rob Bowie bootlegs pushed the lead to 
20-6 by the end of the first half. Two more 
series in the second half made the final, 32-6.
According to Crunch Bunchs Brad Taylor, 
the two teams earlier meeting helped to make 
the difference. We found the defense against 
them in the last half of the first game, he 
noted.
The intermediate final almost never was 
played. A protest by Easy Money over the
eligibility of one The Squads player forced a 
postponement of the match until Tuesday.
When the match finally was played, The 
Squad defeated the ECE Dynamic Rams, 19- 
13. ECE got on the board first with an early 
strike in the first quarter to take a 6-0 lead. At 
that point though, The Squad took over, to roll 
to their 19-13.
In the minors final, earlier Monday night, 
Pika-C defeated the ECE (Minors) Dynamic 
Rams, 20-7.
ECE had a high-scoring offense that had 
scored points by the bushel all season long, but 
the stiff Pika defense shut the Rams down.
While ECE tried for the quick score, Pika 
was content to play a short yardage game of 
runs and screen passes. Their methodical play 
garnered Pika a 7-0 halftime lead.
Pika put the pressure on in the second half, a 
long touchdown pass early in the second half 
followed by an interception on an ECE shovel 
pass pushed Pikas lead to 20-0 before ECE 
could finally get on the board.
Pikas Eric Friedman claimed his team 
sewed up the game at the start They fell 
behind quickly and had to go for the big play."

---------------------------------------------------

S
bms bPDyPr
PORTS
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
Presidents Reelected On Late Ballot
photo by Andy Gillespie
Fullback Chris Hansen (32) bulls his way through the Presidents defense during the 
Tartans loss on Saturday.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor 
On paper, it looked like a mismatch.
The Washington and Jefferson Presidents, 
Division Ills #2 ranked team, held the advan
tage in size, weight, scoring, defense, and 
depth. The only cards in Carnegie Mellons 
hand were a quarterback looking to regain his 
1985 form, a lot of freshmen and sophomores, 
Tech Field and emotion. A President win 
would just be another step on the way to the 
playoffs; for the Tartans it was rest of the sea
son.
It looked like a mismatch at halftime. But it 
was the Tartans who were dealing the cards 
with a 22-7 lead.
And if not for a desperate W&J drive in the 
last 43 seconds of the contest, it would have 
been Carnegie Mellon who emerged victori
ous. The Tartans had just taken a 36-35 lead on 
an improbable drive of their own, and just had 
to hold the Presidents for less than a minute. 
But quarterback Pat Aigner completed a pass 
to star running back A J. Pagano, who dodged 
and darted 34 yards to the CMU 36 yard line. 
As time ran out, freshman John Ivory booted a 
40 yard field goal to give the Presidents a 38- 
36 win.
Irregardless of the winner, it was one of the 
greatest football games ever played at Tech 
Field. The contest featured everything that 
makes football great: sparkling offense, gutty 
defense, and exciting comebacks.
Jim Kelly's first quarter field goal gave the 
Tartans an early 3-0, lead, but the emotional 
tempo was set by Rob Arthur's fumble recov
ery that set up the drive.
The emotional balance flip-flopped as soon 
as W&J got the ball again. A fired-up Tartan 
defense seemed to have the Presidents stalled,
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffwriter
ATLANTA-This weekend the Carnegie 
Mellon Womens Tennis team flew to Emory 
University in Atlanta to compete in the first 
annual University Athletic Conference Cham
pionship (UAA). The Lady Tartans finished 
in fifth place among eight schools with one 
first place finish and four fourth place finishes.
With the exception of one match between the 
University of Chicago and New York Univer
sity which was not over when the team left for 
the airport, the final scores were Emory 42, 
Brandeis 36, University of Chicago 24, WashBy STEWART LEVINE 
Tartan Sports Editor 
ST. LOUIS-Pittsburghs Kennywood Park 
calls itself the Roller Coaster Capital of the 
World. The park is closed for the winter, but 
Pittsburgh has a new source for thrilling highs 
and chilling falls: the Carnegie Mellon Vol
leyball Team. As senior Karin McCandless 
put it, Thats how we are, up and down, up 
and down, up and down.
This past weekend at the University Athletic 
Association (UAA) Championships, the 
sixth-seeded Lady Tartans ride netted them a
forcing coach John Luckhardt to call for a 51 - 
yard field goal attempt.
The attempt was blocked, but CMU was 
dealt a devasting blow: too many men on the 
field. The resultant 15 yards and first down set 
up a TD and 7-3 J lead.
The shocking part of the game came next as 
Carnegie Mellon reeled off 19 unanswered 
second-quarter points. Chris Hansen, Bill 
Heiser and Boomer Schmitt ran straight at the 
W&J line, that despite averaging 6'2", 252 
pounds was being beat off the ball by the petite 
6'0", 227 pound CMU offensive front. 
Hansens 2 yard run and Kelly's PAT put Tech 
in front 10-7.
The Presidents seemed determined to get 
that touchdown back. Quarterback Pat Aigner, 
who passed for 219 yards on the day, mixed 
passes with Pagano rushes effectively enough 
to get to the Tartan 7.
Aigners next pass was one too many, as 
freshman Mark Mittlehauser took the first step 
towards PHI player of the game honors with a 
goal-line interception. Mittlehauser, a comerback, was moved into the lineup because of the 
injury to all-conference defensive back Bill 
Cramer.
Although they didn't expect to be back on the 
field so soon, the CMU offense wasted no time 
in getting to work. Mike Hensel pulled himself 
out of a second down and 14 hole with a 12 
yard pass to Mike Beresford. On the next play, 
he sucked the defense in, then lofted a pass to 
the all-alone Dean Garofola, who romped 55 
yards for another Tartan TD. Kelly's point 
after was no good, and the score stayed 16-7.
The Tartans' final score of the half came 
when defensive tackle Bill Kerr recovered an 
Aigner fumble. Hensel's four yard loop to tight 
end Gary Gojsovich made the score 22-9 at
ington University 21, Carnegie Mellon 19, 
University of Rochester 16, New York Uni
versity 12, and Case Western 1.
The big story; however, came from the #3 
doubles team of Tracy Ace Boyd and Amy 
Fibus. This same team that found themselves 
in the middle of all the disappointment over 
the close Presidents Athletic Conference 
(PAC) Championship loss surprised all and 
finished in first place at #3 doubles.
On the first day of competition, Boyd and 
Fibus pulled out an impressive win against the 
University of Rochester. After the match they 
commented, We totally took control. We
a tie for third place in the conference.
The Tartan Coaster left for St. Louis climb
ing, with a 3-0 victory over Presidents Ath
letic Conference rival Thiel on Tuesday (15-9, 
15-9,15-8). Both teams battled inconsistency 
and fatigue throughout the match; however, 
Carnegie Mellons movement on the court and 
quicker offense allowed the Lady Tartans to 
capitalize on Thiel miscues. Senior Monica 
Zalevsky and freshman Nicole Hanak ignited 
Carnegie Mellons offense, combining for 26 
of the teams 46 kills in the match. The quick 
set offense used by the Lady Tartans caught
halftime.
The dream began to crumble in the final 30 
minutes. Offensive coordinator Rich Erdelyi 
told the Tartans they needed to score two more 
touchdowns to win. That they did. But it was 
the defense that let the Presidents score on five 
of their seven second half possessions. Inju
ries played a part, as both Bill Kerr and AllAmerica lineman Brian Roessler were lost for
were invincible. We returned well. We served 
well. We started playing well, but all of a 
sudden they started to play better so we just 
had to play even better still and we did!  Fibus, 
who is never very far from a pack of Oreo 
Cookies insisted, It was my Oreos that did it. 
The tandem defeated their opponents, 6-1,6-
4.
For the last several weeks, Amy Fibus has 
been playing with an injured shoulder. Unfor
tunately on the second day of the tournament 
during her singles match, she reinjured her 
shoulder. The Emory Trainer said Fibus
continued on page 23
the Lady Tomcats off guard several times. 
Carnegie Mellon recorded 7 serving aces in 
the match, as well as 8 service errors and 23 
hitting errors.
The tournament started with a continuation 
of the climb. Senior setter Marianne Smith, 
who was named to the conferences second 
team, served up an ace in the opener against 
Case Western Reserve. Senior Diane Watson 
followed with four more points, giving Carne
gie Mellon a quick 5-0 lead. The senior middle 
hitter from Washington added four more servcontinued on page 24
the half due to injuries.
The Washington and Jefferson offense that 
emerged from the locker room at halftime wq ) 
the one leading the conference with 35 points 
per game average, not the one that had been 
held to a touchdown by the Tartans.
A.J. Pagano showed why he deserved AllAmerica honors by bursting through the line,
continued on page 25
Soccer Upsets Pitt, , 
Falls to Bethany
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The mens soccer team hit the road last 
week, travelling to neighboring Univer
sity of Pittsburgh on Wednesday and to 
Bethany on Saturday. The Tartans 
battled to a 1-0 victory over the Pan
thers, but lost in double overtime to the 
Bisons 6-2.
Against Division I Pittsburgh, sopho
more goalie Glen Hoogerwerf recorded 
his seventh shutout of the season, and 
sophomore midfielder Eddie Park 
scored the games lone goal to edge the 
Panthers.
The Pitt game marked the return of 
senior co-captain Alan Mayr to action. 
Mayr went out with a knee injury early 
in the season, underwent orthoscopic 
surgery, and was not expected to re
cover before the seasons end. He 
played in both the Pitt game and the 
Bethany game.
On Saturday, the Tartans were over
powered by Bethany, yielding four 1 
goals in overtime and six overall. The 
Bisons struck first, scoring to take a 1-0 
lead. The Tartans battled back, how
ever. Park scored on a direct kick in the 
first half to tie the score, and in the
continued on page 25
Boyd and Fibus Win at UAA Tourney
Meet Me in St. Louis: V-ball Finishes 3rd

---------------------------------------------------

D
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  -COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIED!
INSIDE
RECORDS
YES returns to the studio and produces Big
Generator
JOE BOB..
Joe Bob offers synopsis of Afternoon Television Fare
Contrasts Make Novel CMU Symphony Program
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffwriter 
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic, under 
the direction of Joel Thome, presented the 
contrasting second symphonies of Weill and 
Brahms in their performance at Carnegie 
Music Hall on October 28. Weills intense, 
forboding Symphony, written during his es
cape from Nazi Germany in the 1930s was 
juxtaposed against Brahms pastoral Sym
phony which expressed the composers con
tentment during a sojourn in the countryside. 
The program for the evening opened omi
nously with Weills Symphony No. 2. Weill, a 
German composer who lived from 1900-1950, 
s primarily recognized for his works in musi
cal theatre such as The Threepenny Opera 
while his symphonic works have been se
verely neglected. Weills Symphony No. 2 is 
noted for its undiluted brass tones and for 
Weills expression of the dark forces of death 
and oppression in his work.
The haunting and insistent strings of the 
introduction of the first movement, Sostenuto, 
set the mood for the rest of the piece. After the 
opening, the first movement shifts between 
various tempos under this same theme. The 
Sostenuto calls for a trumpet solo in the style 
of a funeral march and serene woodwind solos 
that break the intensity of the strings and brass.
For the most part, the Philharmonic handled 
the technical complexity of the first movement 
with great dexterity. The woodwinds and 
strings performed with skill as did the low 
brass. However, throughout this whole move
ment, the trumpets were brash and overbear
ing and did not effectively express the discor
dant quality that Weill intended for this move
ment. Despite these problems, Thome impres
sively guided the Philharmonic through the 
tempo changes of this movement.
The trumpet solo in the style of a funeral 
march in the Sostenuto recurs in the opening of 
the second movement, Largo. The feeling of
dread is repeated throughout this movement 
but is broken by the placid solo lines which 
were deftly performed by the members of the 
Philharmonic. In particular, the performance 
of the trombone solo expressed the mournful 
quality that Weill intended and the soloist 
handled the syncopated rhythms with ease. 
The Largo movement ends on a gentle note 
with a soft chord in the woodwinds. While the 
intonation on this chord was excellent, the 
Philharmonic had difficulty following Thome 
in his cut-off.
The third movement of Weill's Symphony 
No. 2, Allegro vivace, began with another 
technically challenging and frantic melody in 
the woodwinds and low brass. The 
Philharmonics rendition of these passages 
was superb. The mood of the third movement 
is not as black as the other two but the cheerful 
woodwind solos are undermined by an omi
nous accompaniment of harsh brass and dis
cordant trumpets. The Philharmonics per
formance of the Allegro vivace featured an 
exceptionally strong clarinet solo and good 
timpani work throughout.
After the intense work of 20th century com
poser Weill, the Philharmonic concluded the 
concert with the pastoral and lighthearted 
Symphony No. 2 by Brahms, a conventional 
19th century composer. After writing his 
Symphony in the countryside of the Carpa
thian mountains, Brahms said it might have 
been written for a pair of newlyweds and this 
sentiment carried across in the interpretation 
of his work by Thome and the Philharmonic.
Brahms second symphony is divided into 
four movements which all are indicative of the 
contented nature of the piece: Allegro non 
troppo. Adagio non troppo. Allegretto grazioso and Allegro con sprito.
The Allegro non troppo is written in a quiet 
and lyric vein and describes the relaxation of 
Brahms' sojourn. The opening with the cellos 
continued on page D2
CMU Drama
,Dsfsryf7 Portrait
By MICHAEL ROSE
Diversions Theater Critic 
Carnegie Mellon Drama, in association w ith 
Chiron Productions, Ltd., is presenting the 
premiere workshop production of "Portrait," a 
new musical by Ed Dixon. Portrait" opens 
November 4 for previews and the anticipation 
is building both in and outside Kresge Theatre.
Portrait is based on Oscar Wilde's The 
Picture Of Dorian Gray but does not occur in 
the same venue as the novel. Portrait is set in 
the present day and deals in a contemporary 
way with the spiritual battles that are the es
sence of Wildes piece..., says author Dixon, 
who is performing in Portrait in addition to 
creating it.
At first glance. Dixon didn't like the idea of 
using Wildes work as the basis for a show. It 
falls in 1850s London, so thats y very spe
cific kind of sound, musically... And to write 
about the leisure class didn't very much inter
est me, although the spiritual struggle of the 
piece was very interesting. So all of a sudden 
I looked at it again and thought. What if 1 
moved it to the present? No one has their 
portrait painted today except actors.' Sud
denly 1 saw a whole new focus: corruption in 
the arts and the contemporary corruption of 
society, says Dixon.
The production carries the tag workshop" 
because this will be the first time that Por
trait will be performed before an audience. 
However, this doesnt imply that Portrait is 
not a full-scale mainstage production, since 
this presentation is something of a tryingout period that all new works go through. 
Time was when a new play or musical went 
out-of-town (meaning out of New York 
City) on tour to work the kinks out and refine 
the piece before coming home to the Great 
White Way. Many popular shows on Broad
way started their pre-tours unrecognizably 
different from what is performed today. Some 
examples from the "Portrait program: The 
classic My Fair Lady was a flop until last 
minute changes were made. In the first per
formances of Broadways longest running 
musical A Chorus Line, there was no happy  
ending - the character of Cassie remained an 
outcast, a victim of her success. Oklahoma just 
didnt cut it, since it lacked its knee-slapping 
continued on page D2
Tabula Rasa explores the edless drama of life from the clean slate at birth to the changes wrought by experience.
Ballet Shines in Second World Premiere
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Contributing Editor 
Pittsburghs new Benedum Center pro
vided a magnificent setting for the Pitts
burgh Ballet Theatres second perform
ance of the season. And a strong perform
ance it was, despite only a week's rehearsal 
time since last weekends season opener. 
The Great Gatsby. For the most part, the 
company looked confident and in control 
through all three of the short ballets that 
comprised the performance. The evening 
began with George Balanchines Sere
nade; Israeli choreographer Ohad 
Naharins dark and disturbing Tabula 
Rasa followed and the world premier bal
let Coursings choreographed by PBT
ballet master Rick McCullough closed the 
performance.
The excellent acoustics, the imposing dark 
wood arch that frames the stage, and the 
enormous stage of the Benedum only en
hanced the performance. Not only is the size of 
the stage beneficial for the dancers, its solid 
construction means that noise made by the 
dancers is minimal. In Heinz Hall, PBTs 
former home, the hollow stage made for a 
veritable chorus of bangs and thumps during 
ballets with a reliance on aerial movements.
Balanchines Serenade, danced to 
Tchaikovskys Serenade for String Orches
tra, Opus 48, is a plotless, almost passionless 
ballet. Characterized by intricate patterns and 
often rigidly controlled movements, Sere
nade hints at the tribulations of lovers but 
maintains a sense of simplicity and seren
ity. The pale blue costumes and plain 
backdrop of the same color are strictly 
classical, but Balanchines choreography 
is not. Balanchine takes standard ballet 
movements and modifies them, drawing 
attention to the conventions of classical 
dance. Dancers stand flat on their feet and 
suddenly rock into pointe, and back down; 
a dancer runs and leaps only to be caught 
and held frozen in mid-air. These unusual 
movements provide the only moments of 
tension in the otherwise serene ballet.
Serenade" requires tremendous control 
on the part of the dancers, control that
continued on page D9

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanNovember 3,1987
Portrait Production to Hit Kresge Theatre This Week
continued from page D1
title number. There are countless other ex
amples.
In todays big business world of the theater, 
the amazing caravan of glorious theater his
tory that was the out-of-town trial is simply 
too grandiose and expensive to work with and 
has in recent years all but disappeared. To 
serve the function of the trial tours, ...the 
workshop was invented to let [the] creative 
staff get together and look at how elements 
work in front of an audience, and then change 
elements that dont work, says Dixon. Most 
of today's Broadway hits, especially those 
written within the last six years or so, had their 
roots in university workshop productions, 
including such plays as Neil Simons Broad
way Bound and the Tony-award winning 
Fences by August Wilson.
-Carnegie Mellon Drama became associated 
with "Portrait through Helen Lee Henderson, 
a CMU Drama alumna (Class of '67) and 
president of Chiron Productions, a New York 
production company. (Incidentally, Ms.
Hendersons mother is also a CMU Drama 
alumna). Ms. Henderson was involved five 
years ago with another workshop production 
here at CMU of a piece called Rachinoff. 
The production gave her the idea of bringing 
another premiere musical to CMU. In New 
York, her company produced Dixons opera 
Shylock based on The Merchant Of Venice, 
in which Dixon played the title role. (Dixon 
was nominated for a Drama Desk award - 
Outstanding Actor in a Musical - for the part, 
which is the first time the nomination has ever 
been extended to an actor in a role of his own 
creation.) After Shylock, Henderson heard 
some of Dixons songs for Portrait and 
brought the new work to the attention of 
Drama Dean Elisabeth Orion. While Dixon 
was in Pittsburgh last summer (performing in 
CLOs 1776) the faculty of the Drama Dept, 
held a backers audition at the home of 
Barbara and Cletus Anderson, professors of 
design in the Drama Department. Dixon 
played and sang the songs from his draft of 
Portrait and performed the dialogue for his
captive audience, and at the end of the recital, 
Dean of Fine Arts Akram Midani reportedly 
stood up and said, I like it. Well do it! 
Student reaction to the production has been 
excellent, according to Assistant Dean of 
Drama Don Marinelli. He says that there is a 
great deal of enthusiasm in the production due 
to the creative excitement of doing a new 
piece. The students are wholeheartedly 
warming to their roles as creative consultants 
in the shaping of the work, and they realize that 
what they do now will have a major influence 
on future productions of Portrait - all the 
way to Broadway, even. The feeling is 
heightened by the fact that you hope theres a 
future for it - theres the possibility. With any 
new piece, one expects a certain number of 
snafus since the work is done sans example or
continued from page D1
and the woodwinds was performed with skill. 
The performance in the strings was impressive 
throughout the whole movement However, 
there were problems in the brass and wood
winds which marred the Philharmonics per
formance of the Allegro non troppo. In the 
brass, the french horns were too loud and had 
substantial intonation problems. The phrasing 
in the woodwinds could have been more ex
pressive; it seemed constrained and awkward 
against the relaxed theme of the movement. 
The flute solo was difficult to hear due to the 
lack of projection by the soloist. The most 
serious problems in the first movement arose 
from the Philharmonics awkward following 
of Thomes direction in the tempo changes at 
the end of the movement 
The Philharmonic fared better in their per
formance of the second movement, Adagio 
non troppo. The movement began with an
history - but things seem to be going remarka
bly well for the show. In fact, says Marinelli, 
and I dont want to jinx it by saying this(knocks on wood) - everything seems to be 
right on track.
The director of Portrait is Lee Sankowich 
and this is his third show for the Kresge The
atre. He is a professor of acting at CMU and 
first achieved success with his production of 
One Flew Over The Cuckoos Nest, which ran 
for several years in New York. He is also 
directing Mary Barnes, the next mainstage 
show, and will direct Arthur Girons Edith 
Stein opening in January at the Public Theatre.
Performances of Portrait will be at 8 pm 
November4,5(previews),6,7,and 10-14, and 
at 2 pm November 7 and 14. For information 
call the CMU box office at 268-2407.
expressive melody in the cellos and continued 
with a gentle string melody throughout the 
movement. The performances of the strings ^ 
were first-rate, but once again, there were in
tonation problems in the french horns.
Overall, the Philharmonic adeptly presented 
the romantic and serene theme of this move
ment.
The third movement, Allegretto grazioso, 
was strongly influenced by German folk melo
dies. In this movement, the performance of the 
Philharmonic was more than competent. ^ 
However, the climax of the concert was the 
last movement, Allegro con spirito. The faults 
in the first movement were reconciled by the 
flawlessness of the performance in the last 
movement. The Philharmonic successfully 
expressed the spontaneity and the unification 
of the first three movements in the Allegro con 
spirito and Thome brought the concert to a 
triumphant close. m
About the Author: Ed Dixon
Ed Dixons Identity and Other Crises opened off-Broadway in 1978. Since that time Mr. 
Dixon has given the theater several productions including Mystical Songs, a tribute to 
American poets; Hotel Broadway, a review that featured the cabaret debut of George 
{Mystery of Edwin Drood) Rose; and most recently Shylock, an opera based on Shakespeares 
The Merchant Of Venice for which Dixon, in the title role, was nominated for a Drama Desk 
Award for Outstanding Actor in a musical.
Mr. Dixon inaugurated the Kennedy Center for the Arts in Washington, D.C. as the Street 
Singer in the world premiere of Bernsteins Mass, a role which he eventually recreated at the 
Metropolitan Opera House in New York. He was seen on Broadway as Cardinal Richelieu 
in Three Musketeers. He has toured the country in Ben Vereens production of CMUs own 
Pippin. He made his Broadway debut in No No Nanette.
Mr. Dixon is a triple threat guest faculty member at CMU this year. In addition to 
performing in Portrait, Mr. Dixon is a guest teacher of acting and holds the position of 
composer in residence for the 87-88 academic year.
Bg% cdmir7 FsnII PrN CDPmdf
Hours;
Sunday MondayNovem ber Eve nts
J^esday Wednesday ThursdayFridaySaturday
1 6 Sultry Singer 
1 Christie Noll 
I Rhythm, Blues
 and More: Sherry D. Boone
*
7
Cabaret Singer; 
Alex Rosenberg
9:00. 11:00 pm
 13 Polk Music : j 
I John Carrol, 1 
I Amanda Dion j 
1 Ken Doyno, 1 
1 Robin Lee Garber, j 
I Esther Jerr.urumj 
| 10:00 pi n|
Ju
Rhythm and Blues 
E Natalie Belcon 
land Tyrone Taylor
|_ 10:00 pm
I Special Concert 
| in the Wherrett 
i room
11 th Hour
L *
21
Holliday Concert 
in the Yard: 
Lenny Tone and 
?he Polyester 
Express 10:00 pm
>
*
>
>
j

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage D3
Big Generator Provides Progressive Rock Power
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Diversions Staffwriter 
YES
Big Generator
Since the 1982 release of their highly suc
cessful comeback album, 90125, the British 
progressive rock outfit YES has been promis
ing a follow up. Five years, one concert tour 
and one marginally interesting live album 
later, YES has finally delivered a studio album 
entitled Big Generator. The album is a far cry 
from the self-indulgent experimental al
bums of the 70s; nowhere in Big Generator 
will you find the excesses of earlier projects. 
What you will find is a collection of seven 
polished songs which synthesize YES earlier 
orchestral influences and pop conventions.
There is no doubt that Big Generator is 
highly commercial; the two opening tracks, 
Rhythm of Love and Big Generator both 
feature heavy synthesizers, catchy melodies 
and rhythms which are destined for Top-40 
airplay. However, both of these songs benefit 
from the harder edged guitar sound of Trevor 
Rabin and Chris Squire. Songs such as Love 
Will Find a Way, Final Eyes, and the all
acoustic Holy Lamb rely on Squire and 
Rabins mastery of the guitar rather than the 
keyboards so prevalent in 90125.
This harder guitar sound is not the only 
quality of Big Generator which harks back to 
the early days; another is song length. Al
though this record is devoid of such excesses 
as the side long album cut, the songs in Big 
Generator are longer. This allows the band to 
feature in them many of their musical signa
tures; tempo and melody changes and elabo
rate transitions are present in songs such as 
Final Eyes,Big Generator, and Shoot 
High, Aim Low.
Musically, the band plays masterfully. Tony 
Kayes synthesizers dominate and enhance in
equal portions throughout the album. Alan 
White capably carries out his duties behind the 
drums, pulling off several remarkable flour
ishes in the process. And Jon Andersons 
male-soprano voice remains one of the more 
unusual and engaging in rock, especially when 
counterpointed by Chris Squires baritone.
There is some bad news. Unfortunately, YES 
remains a charter member of the Great House 
of Lyrical Insignificance. The people who 
brought us the classic non sequitor In and 
around the lake/Mountains come out of the 
sky/And they stand there, again hit us with a
By DAN BIDWA
Diversions Record Critic 
Plan 9 
Sea Hunt
Too cool. With their fourth album, Plan 9, the 
mega-guitar band from Rhode Island moves 
even farther away from their neo-psychedelic 
roots with brand new touches of blues and jazz 
only hinted at on their previous albums.
The albums first song, Hat Comes First, 
leads off with a chewy chunka-chunkachunka guitar riff lifted from the 70s song 
Seven or Nine, and holds the same choppy 
pattern for about half of the song, when it skids 
into a concrete-smooth rocker chock full of 
early Seventies grunge rock. The rest of the 
side is the same sort of melodic guitars that 
gave the Seventies something to be proud of 
(and something to long for when Boston and 
YES were invented). The aforementioned first 
song, as well as the second and third songs 
The Figures and Man Bites Dog, is the 
best stuff on the first side; the rest is somewhat 
derivative. Even so, the boring stuff is only 
relatively boring; Plan 9 has been doing this
barrage of lyrical nonsense. There are impos
sible geographical descriptions (the blue 
fields and crimson sand in Shoot High, Aim 
Low,) improbable machines (...flying out 
the soft machines we are but all surprise to 
you/Praise, oh, praise this anthem generator 
moving through the night,) uncommon mete
orological phenomena (thunder burrowing 
through the hearts of men,) confusing analo
gies (something is compared to the black and 
white of love,) and rhymes created solely for 
musical convenience (evolution is rhymed 
with Shakespeare revolution,). To be fair, a
sort of multi-guitar (four of them at times) rock 
for years now, and can do it better than most 
bands could ever hope to. Big layers of guitars 
settle out in the tunes, usually with a lone 
guitar sitting on top along with Eric Stumpos 
sand-smooth vocals. Nothing new on this side, 
just the same old guitars in the garage. Way 
cool stuff.
The big surprise comes on side two, which 
leads off with drums without guitars, a definite 
rarity in this band. Beyond Mombasa grabs 
its lead quasi-African drums and runs straight 
into guitars (again). The combination is rather 
mind-blowing in intensity. However, the 
drums go out the side just as quickly as they 
came in, because they arent on the next song, 
Sea Hunt. The title track starts off with 
acoustic guitars and bongos playing with a 
mild riff, soon to be joined by the normal 
electrics and bass, but the riff remains until the 
whole mess fades out, only to be resurrected 
by a slide guitar part, which gets layered over 
Hendrix-style. Once again, the whole mess 
fades out, and is again replaced, this time by a 
jazzy piano base and guitar lead. Epic stuff at
lot of it makes some sense. However, Big Gen
erator is further proof of one of YES main 
flaws, the tendency to sacrifice lyrical content 
for musical convenience.
Regardless of the complaints over YES' 
lyrics, die music remains stunning, the pro
duction by ex YES-man Trevor Horn and Paul 
DeVilliers is impeccable. The sound and the 
voices are powerful and clear. If Big Gen
erator is any indication, the current incarna
tion of YES will continue to flourish, and the 
banner of progressive rock will continue to fly, 
but in a more restrained manner than before.
an epic length of eleven minutes, immediately 
followed by Human Mertzes, clocking in at 
a whopping eleven seconds (maybe), which 
puts the band back into the guitar-rock thing 
for the rest of the side. Too, too cool.
This album is a wonderful addition to 
anyone's room. A perfect antidote to stupid 
synth bands - blow 'em back with guitars. This 
is a band that deserves to be noticed. So notice 
them. The purveyors of this wonderful noise 
are coming to town on November 8 at the 
Decade. Call the club at 687-7655 for details 
on the cover charge and time of the show.
rDk'crsions Staff JMeding 
'Tuesday, 8:00 pni 
Tartan Office
T&icfc Tic
Plan 9: Guitars Blowing Hot and Cool
WOW!
15% Student Discount for a Carribean Style Lunch
Embassy Caribbean Restaurant
5824 Forbes Ave. 
(between Shady & Murray Ave. 
in Squirrel Hill) 
521-7770
featuring authentic Jamaican style lunches 
such as 
Beef loaf platter 3.95 
Patties platter 3.25 
Dumplings with Saltfish and plantains 4.50
many other delightful lunches - please call
Lunch served within 3 to 5 minutes

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanNovember 3,1987
Joe Bob: Housewife Fu on Phil Donahue
This weeks TV listings:
Monday, 2 pm, Donahue!: Transvestite 
hookers talk about their broken homes.
Monday, 3 pm, Oprah!: White slavers 
from India reveal how they force 13-yearold street children to become transvestite 
hookers.
Monday, 4 pm, Sally Jesse Raphael!: 
Sally talks about how DISGUSTING 
transvestites are.
Monday, 5 pm, Geraldo!: Geraldo 
dresses up like a transvestite and earns a 
hundred bucks on-camera.
Tuesday, 2 pm, Donahue!: Midget-rights 
activists discuss the new low-doorknob law 
recently passed in Rhode Island.
Tuesday, 3 pm, Oprah!: Oprah demon
strates how 14 midgets can be concealed in 
the folds of her dress.
Tuesday, 4 pm, Sally Jesse Raphael!: 
Sally tells her callers that they dont have to 
have sex with midgets if they don't feel like 
it.
Tuesday, 5 pm, Geraldo!: Expose of the 
gruesome sport of midget-hurling.
Wednesday, 2 pm, Donahue!: Unwed 
mothers who keep their babies.
Wednesday, 3 pm, Oprah!: Unwed 
mothers who keep their babies and steal 
other people's babies.
Wednesday, 4 pm, Sally Jesse Raphael!: 
You girls stop that immediately!
Wednesday, 5 pm, Geraldo!: Onlocation visit to Santa Monica apartment 
complex to watch baby conceived oncamera within the womb of a unwed 
multiple-partner consenting adult.
Thursday, 2 pm, Donahue!: Theyre rich 
and theyre lonely.
Thursday, 3 pm, Oprah!: Theyre rich,
: Joe Bob Goes :  :. Drive:ln #:
they're black and theyre lonely.
Thursday, 4 pm, Sally Jesse Raphael!: 
Theyre rich, theyre lonely and all they 
need to do is be exactly like me.
Thursday, 5 pm, Geraldo!: Theyre rich 
and theyre so lonely they agreed to come on 
my show.
Friday, 2 pm, Donahue!: Drunks talk 
about the bottle.
Friday, 3 pm, Oprah!: Drunk Indians talk 
about how they wrecked entire Western 
towns for the publicity.
Friday, 4 pm, Sally Jesse Raphael!: 
Sallys topic is Dry up, you scumsucker 
lush!
Friday, 5 pm, Geraldo!: A 72-year-old 
wino fro Chicagos West Side will drink 
five bottles of Thunderbird in one hour 
while Geraldo stands by and comments on 
how tragic his life is.
Speaking of zombies, Prince of Darkness 
is this weeks drive-in selection, mainly for 
distinguished achievement in the use of 
maggots, worms, stinkbugs, dung beetles 
and face-eating ants. Donald Pleasence, the 
only man alive who can say the words, 
There is nothing we can do, so that it 
makes the hair on the back of your legs 
receive satellite signals, plays a Catholic 
priest whos a little upset cause one of the 
holiest Catholic guys died and left a book 
full of equations explaining how the devil 
lives in a 7-million-year-old glass cannister 
in the basement of an abandoned church in 
downtown El Lay and if they dont get some 
Albert Einstein-level nucular physicists from 
Harvard to haul their hineys down there and 
stop Satan from subdividin his atomic 
particles, then pretty soon John Carpenter is 
gonna run out of zombie makeup.
Thats not all. Once all the big-shot 
scientists go down to the church, set up their 
gizmos, and start gettin ready for Poltergeist 
City, Alice Cooper brings an army of
zombie bag-ladies down to the churchyard 
to stand outside and breed slimy bugs and 
spit Gatorade into anybodys mouth that 
comes outside. Theyre trying to find a 
suitable body for the devil to some to earth 
in, and guess who it is?
The No-Nonsense Panty Hose Lady.
Believe me, its not a pretty sight. V?
Zombie Rama. No breasts. Sixteen dead 
bodies. Pencil in eye. Arm hacking. Head 
rolls. Ants-on-zombie-cheeks. Bird crucifix
ion. Bicycle through the stomach. Mouth-tomouth zombie vomit. Beetle convention on 
a character actors body. Throat slashing, ear 
to ear, while singing. Brick fu. Maggot fu. 
Worm fu. Garden shear fu. Alice Cooper fu. 
Drive-In Academy Award nominations for 
Victor Wong, the nucular expert, for saying, 
Say goodbye to classical reality!; Jameson 
Parker, the he-man nucular physicist, for 
saying, A life form is SELF-ORGANIZ
ING!; Susan Blanchard, as the scabface 
leper-skin blond ghoul in No-Nonsense 
Panty Hose; and Donald Pleasence, the 
spookiest priest in El Lay, for saying, Its a 
secret that can no longer be kept, and No > 
prison can hold him now, and Maybe hes 
anti-God, bringing darkness instead of 
light.
Three stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
This Week in DH2210
Thursday, November 5
Sincerely Charlotte
Mathieus affair with Charlotte ended after Charlotte mysteriously disappeared. Now, 
Charlotte has come back to Mathieu because her current lover has been murdered. 
However. Mathieu has a different life than when Charlotte left it, and is faced with the 
decision of choosing to take Charlotte back, or stay where he is. This movie, though 
sounding serious, is loaded w ith fun adventure to keep you in your seat.
Director: Caroline Huppert
Cast: Isabelle Huppert, Niels Arestrup
Showtimes: 6,H,I0
Friday, November 6
Platoon
This is the movie that created the sudden rise in the amount of Vietnam-era films. 
Platoon, a multi-Academy-award-winning film (including Best Picture), wrenches at the 
audiences heart and mind. Platoon uses the Vietnam War as the setting for the rite of 
passage for Chris Taylor, played by Charlie Sheen. Both provocative and depressing, 
Platoon shows signsofSheensfathersfilm,Ap0ca/y/>jeAfow, asthemusical score helps 
to convey the message to the viewers. A balance of good and evil is seen in the characters 
of Sergeants Barnes (Tom Berenger) and Elias (Willem Dafoe). Both received nomina
tions for Best Supporting Actor for their roles.
Platoon took director Oliver Stone ten years to make, and will remain in your mind ten 
years into the future.
Director: Oliver Stone
Cast: Charlie Sheen, Tom Berenger, Willem Dafoe 
Showtimes: 6,8:30,11
Saturday. November 7
Angel Heart
Harry Angel, played by Mickey Rourke, is a private eye during the 1950s. In his latest 
case, he is hired by Louis Cyphre (Robert DeNiro), to find Johnny Favorite, a pre-war 
crooner who owes something to Cyphre. Simple, right? Wrong. This eerie, mind-blowing, 
erotic, provocative film leads Angel to New Orleans where he finds himself in the middle 
of occult sacrifices and killings. A 10-second scene between Angel and voodoo queen 
Ephiphany Proudfoot (Lisa Bonet) was cut from the movie to keep Angel Heart from being 
rated X. It was not the pure sex of the scene, but the occult overtones and blood-spattering 
voodoo which surrounded it that upset the censors. Although strong, this movie is 
extremely well-done as it never leaves the plot and the audience never leaves their seat. 
Director: Alan Parker
Cast: Mickey Rourke, Lisa Bonet, Robert DeNiro 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, November 8
Goldfinger
The third of the Bond films, Goldfinger is rated second, below From Russia With Love. 
Sean Connery, taking the lead role, must stop Auric Goldfinger, a crazed villain who wants 
to destroy all the gold in Fort Knox to ruin the American economy and to increase the value 
of his own gold. Also features Pussy Galore and Oddjob, the rotund Chinese henchman 
with the killer hat. An excellent film with plenty of action, humor, and suspense that Bond 
is known for.
Director: Guy Hamilton
Cast: Sean Connery, Honor Blackman, Gert Frobe, Harold Sakata 
Showtimes: 6,fi,I0 
By JOHN GINSBURG
CLARIS
SoftwareEngineers
CLARIS Corporation, Apples new software subsidiary, 
is seeking creative, hands-on managers and engineers 
with text, graphics and/or database software develop
ment experience to develop Macintosh applications.
All positions require a BS (MS preferred) in elec
trical engineering or computer science, or equivalent, 
and 5 + years development experience using C, Pascal 
or 68000 assembly languages on bit mapped work
station applications like MacWrite or MacDraw . 
Experience with Macintosh is desirable. In addition, 
management positions will require 3 + years in a 
supervisory capacity.
If you are motivated by direct involvement and 
the opportunity to make a meaningful contribution in a 
dynamic development environment with a unique 
start-up, send your resume with SALARY HISTORY 
AND REQUIREMENTS to CLARIS Corporation, do 
20525 Mariani Ave., MS23-SS, Dept. 10-11, Cupertino, 
CA 95014. EOE.
1987 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple and the Apple logo are 
registered trademarks of Apple C omputer Inc.
Macintosh. MacWrite, MacDraw are 
trademarks licensed to Apple Computer, Inc
CLOTHING MEN AND YOUN
ahere you'll always find the latest collections from Hirbaud, Pdwin, iimmy 'Z, xolo, Nlexander iulian, and Hotchad
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill421-5710
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads781-0811
%
i
V

---------------------------------------------------

5T0PPIT/ LBMME THRU/A 6ET PACK,YOU L6FT1ST MOB OF /gSKeNNemesQue JAftvme-twset&A &h,
LOOK. TM SORRY, 5UT i simply Neet? MY -i _ PAYCHEC
I JUST PONT Laug hsl!\:ANYMORE
Funded by 
Student Dormitory Council
&*$$&
RIGHT.-WE'tE HIRING SCf\&5 TO 
PLAY OUR REGULAR CHARACTERS,.. 
AUPITIONS ARE wm.. FACT, 
THERE'S A GROUP OUTS I PE NOW 
WHOSE CAREERS COULP AU, USE 
->, x^CouhtTX' A LITTLE 
) SHORING UP.
PATcwveu.
mimTOW- 10 366W> J0ACKIH&
TOM \ SMPZR
Ch \Wce xum.es
,*w|
flurrflBRYANTmtetim-!ar K/P5 i
UNO-UHO,crPANPA'tu'l
<mtn.
mm's we New lo-^HIREP TO PLAY PILL THE CAT ? we've 60T A sceNE TO t_^
PO//-^\ HERE 
V dfaxX) T AM.
you? al ehlC m7H0RNHUMP PURRING. NOW HIREP YOU WHATPOIPO? FOR MU? 1
yes... nago CSC 
Cx ? ms Bgo eemI NORMALLY PO?
UCKMEAU, WHICH OVER THe FAC EXPLAINS HIS Twice, MAYBE CONSTANT FIFTY, TIMES A WATCHING/ PAY.
YA KNOW, I WAS POUT LISTEN mRNEP A6AI/IST TO THOSE PLAYING THIS m-MOUTHeP "0/Ll" CHARAC - STRIKERS.. TeR. \ NOW Levs JUS!GET TO OUR FIRST
ml rl wBlRl.j
"ACT 1, PANEL 1: BILL we CAT GIVES STeve g Swep/SH COCONUT OIL mSSAGe
A MASSAGe T ARB YOUoutresuRer
1QU/T.
ute^ NAmmJ!
U'i OLLIE FUNT tRE ROOPY WELL EXCITE]? ,ran a new career/SO LETS 6ET POm'VOSOME SERIOUS
WfiNEHjll
FINE..HERB'S THE SCENE: 
STEVE IS ON THE FLOOR. A 
JEALOUS (HRLFRIENP HAS JUST 
CUT HIS LEGS OFF WITH A
CARROT PEELERS
1 GOT A SCENE WITH OPUS / PIP SOM6&OPY REMEMBER TV HIRE HfS SCAB REPLACEMENT ?*
..THEN OPUS WALKS IN 
ANP SAYS SOMETHING 
WISTFULLY 
POIGNANT. "
sEriisa
JIM SORRY,
MR FUNT... YOU'RE 
JUST FAR TOO 
URdANE FOR US 
HERE ON WE COMIX 
PAGE...7 5Wf/<someMY

---------------------------------------------------

CWHAT< aur\ r$fUPlpVf 
(ftjfi T $ SO..Ojj ^y'v^vyvvijj'
C/uTbut TM!5 /5 jf)\ Xths frfQMuG'J , 
-j WjZ~~r^ot*i LBy Craig 
Schlechter
frH5 5r 5t^ av uXt iuXt. 
Il ua! Ze rypfTn !qa! PINING 
^ESTABLISHMENTS... rH^
'"UNSfiH, MUH?? 
THIS IS A&oirr AS OSV A* Vb G6T/
^ /if toe ose \ 
d /OeZE StD 1 ; I DOOR, UteCAti 
: SUBAK IMTO THE
, jl TCMPL6 0Fm JfcmeBATHOS, 
ymv9i^seHy
-g k/HAT fN
ThAr GOPAUjfbLX5(7/Vi7?<
Page D4The TartanNovember 3,1987
%
^ % % V ^ ^ r _ \ <L * %w%\ 
%%% - % n % * 
Qo&mo htfe^i 'fiaiY desarfAnd Kire, btW\f)i%il <4>e^Jed
BMW, (Trwi6 jbi*=
r<s5peh rt-Tte of 
ihMve^r FUwa, teev\
fltfW diy 
bu
cMaun- popping 
Mr<A sto^Vig* 
'to f* ' 
Hakitrtf'tX w po+KVig l>+- ru 
>en\\a  6w-rvTUu)er, 
3eed aow) ' - * pp /H IT^ GOOP TO ^CK\ 
AT MY ALMA mater/ I WAS 
THROWN OUT OF THE CLASS 
or T9. I THINK THIS (5 
THE PERFECT PltCE Kj 
3GIN MY REIGN OF TERROR,
I /vap ^/~
LUCK, OLIVER, MYotf,AttDTHeffc0cfTRfc>er SLIPry----------- .X ^=S\AWAV prom/ ' / 4 lAvHe dpag8r _ \ li \<Sf20R..
----n*^
SlfJCE WHEN 
[15 Pk CAFE-TLRiA 
v EMPTY AT 
NO ON?
(SMPiy iS! :qtli 
v,ePOF at/ PLPiNf
WITH Mi !C'!tiql!
tRisipTcudpyr So
MS CHILJ75 PLfVTO RIG THE JUKE&OX
PkrO WHEN AkRb Fmv )N A1
QUARTER.AT ONLY VLMS 
uLUK/)". r/rrV'T',Ay'^^//
Overbad
...TfeST TUESDAY. 
SHELT we RFOMAM 
CONTiNUS VJ ITU 
TH^ PHYSIC? OF 
R SOAJ AMOT.
all Bodies HA\/E 
F\xeD FREQUENCIES 
AT WHICH RESO^N^ C Ajt\i,,,
FO%nuO ~^J*.

---------------------------------------------------

T<* I Fn^sI r-y .
'ttShs&z
oN
KJBy Kurt ShawInkspots
ou irm/t>f i>& Wkm t/p-id Vu- ehe?"You mean you used to play the stock market too?
poppirt^ VWfz lAb Miy...
'Vwoj a\l 
p 'to a Hr^o^ic 
cra^k.
X e^HIl rq ibevf i-H 
6NlFp/ foffeyi actor,
^o<?d ha Mieter.
Vs ^ Jl^5
- SP
By Danny Fahs
IV , k*t <#*  v J'- jf" -f, <T <> '.'.jf jS^ <r ** vy <p oY,g . *r j ,. u
**  j/*V*+f+ .4&t* <!<* -%j^m,r ,
FREDDY FLASHBACK <& MAX
d NwtseeNB
*VV*.A*Jte?y>. s
By Doug Lamperski
%_3n_ns +mtl
8;msyH5
^+V>p
|W>
<ByBod Jenkins
A\ief _9" :Fs':ng
/ vje^ ^J 1 * 11 
!(como
vtw Push&e
xSRBt rue w/ms?!
ICiuefMviT-tcFfleclJy, 
Teln+etwe/4BCsrK4- pfrnwfmi e^pH
V >
v
Tuxr ur Nexf-k&rtc
Qnd see t* ridiculous
(ONduf(>N,r\d ofccursE 
anew n/Wv
w(>e Frrtwy <v< Meuc....
WlW .X /whaf (port,
-^V\e\l uytfhg aiV:siLr'
Sur

---------------------------------------------------

BAB ?IQ ID RER
Iitttt
BH] Z3QBQ AB QBAR3EQBQB0f3ClH
By William Barnes & 
Matthew Diamond
T NEVER KNtU) tHpT HffDSO .SUg-LtuELS '
fypDJ Ja set
toHRTS 'DOOON -Th6'
UiSLL^ UULfc be LOOK 
fit THftT! WOOTHf R STftieUJELL' THPfT'6 THfctfc eftSEWEKJTS SO FRe -------
collegiate crosswordBy Andy DurkinThe REAL World
Vllr\<XO N Hte^A
Looks ulCfc. 
h 1F(Lwa
-tK^ coAA(VtE^y 
\A) & \
0Edward Julius Collegiate CW8704
ACROSS 44 Coffin stands
46 Well-known elec--- paper tronics companyCut 47 -- earString of beads 48 Exchanged wordsBerated 50 Wide's partnerItalian food 51 Bowling ball"60 Minutes" host materialLinguistics suffix 53 ScholarlyCotton cloth 55 Periods of timePart of BMOC 56 Brownish pigmentsTime periods 57 Know the --Tennis term 58 Gives a signalSlang for firesThe Flintstones' DOWNpet, et al.
Statement term 1 Polishing clothBaseball hall-of- 2 Old Italian capitalfamer, -- Irvin 3 Prefix for gram orMilitary gestures graph
Soils 4 Drop into waterGreek statesman 5 Lamprey fishermanGreek island 6 Like a snakeLeveling devices 7 Prison sectionBaseball MVP of 8 Building wing1961 9 Unyielding forma 10 Takes back, as aPiano seat statementMr. Kazan 11 Belief
12 Angry outbursts13 Low, wet land14 Stupid19 Grouped closely 22 Hospital con
valescence rooms 24 Supporting undergarments 26 Hangs ten 28 Ways of conducting oneself30 God of the sky31 Ike's initials33 Piano keys34 Quality35 South American river37 -- nail38 Musical pieces39 Distributed40 Forest inventory 42 Ancient harps44 College in Maine45 Type style48 --- one's time49 Formal fight 52 Siesta54 Short for Deoxy
ribonucleic acid
nia,I.oISl /WATM& ft. I TV ALS
issues
By Jim Vorhees
DefiNEtlY MORE FUM 
THAN FISH
HEY [MJDE , 
is THAT V0UR 
POLAR BEAR?
YEAH, WHY ? 
WHAT 5 WRM^j
VIE CAWT 
5-WIM WJHEM 
HE'5 AK0UMD

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage D9
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre
continued from page D1
wasnt always there for PBT on Saturday 
night. Unity of timing and placement was not 
always there for the female corps, and a num
ber of wobbly pirouettes in the pas de deux 
detracted slightly from the performance 
Tabula Rasa is as tense, dark and uncon
trolled as Serenade is quiet and light. EstoMian composer Arvo Parts haunting minimal
ist music sets the tone for the pessimistic view 
of the human condition that the ballet offers. 
Danced in costumes of muted shades; shirts 
and pants for men, simple dresses for the 
women, all designed by Christina Giannini, 
the ballet takes place in an atmosphere of halflight against a black back-drop. Falling com
fortably into the genre of modem ballet,
i j Tabula Rasa uses unusual, often infantile or 
inhuman movements to illustrate the process 
by which people who are bom as a tabula rasa 
or clean slate, are changed and affected by 
the circumstances of their lives. The move
ments depict loneliness, isolation, sadness, 
and failure to communicate.
The first movement is a flurry of activity with 
a dozen dancers on the stage, but often acting 
\ individually rather than in cooperation or 
unison. By contrast, the second movement is 
as minimalist as Parts score. Small move
ments, often numbingly slow and repetitive, 
cast a pallor over the ballet and the audience. 
Tabula Rasa was commissioned by the
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre with a grant from the 
National Choreography Project, funded 
jointly by the Rockefeller Foundation, Exxon 
Corporation, and the National Endowment for 
the Arts. PBT world premiered the ballet in 
1986.
Coursings is best described as a lyrical 
ballet because of its flowing movements and 
waterfall, fast-paced Mendelssohn score. The 
dancers wear beautiful costumes designed by 
Susan McCullough (the choreographers wife 
and the director of the PBT school). Watercolor tones of blue, brown, and pink on a white 
background perfectly suited Mendelssohns 
Celebra Ottetto, Opus 20. Choreographed in 
three movements, the work immediately takes 
the audience by surprise with its synthesis of 
classical and modem movements, and the first 
movement has a unique flair about it that 
unfortunately fades as the ballet progresses 
onward.
With the demanding speed of the Men
delssohn score, the ballet drifts dangerously 
close to monotony. The choreography sacri
fices texture to simple pacekeeping, and thus 
fails to take advantage of some of the best 
movements in the music, which was master
fully performed by the Pittsburgh Ballet Or
chestra under conductor Octavia deRosa. The 
creation and performance of Coursings was 
funded by a grant from the Pennsylvania 
Council for the Arts.
Jon Cryer, of Pretty In Pink, is going 
back to high school in the new film
Hiding Out
Passes are good for Wednesday at 7:30 pm 
King's Court Theatre, Oakland: Admit Two
Passes courtesy of Pgh. Film Promotions
Anne Wagner and Mary Carlisle at Forbes
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions
Tonights opening at the Forbes Gallery 
will feature the work of seniors Anne 
Wagner and Mary Carlisle. Both artists' 
work is concerned with texture and surface 
and the manipulated, tactile qualities of 
those surfaces.
Wagner and Carlisle draw on the ele
ments for inspiration in their work; Mary 
uses fire and Anne uses water. Anne will be 
showing painted glass sculptures which she 
considers primarily landscape with many 
of water forms and references. Wagner is 
new to sculpture and finds that she enjoys it 
more than two dimensional art. She still 
considers her work to be drawing and paint
ing, but likes the idea of putting two dimen
sional art on a three dimensional medium. 
I was at a loss with the canvas and kept 
getting stuck, Anne explains. With glass, 
there is already an image in the sculpture 
youre one step ahead. While she consid
ers her combination sculpture/paintings to 
be more fun than canvas she eventually 
hopes to go back to that two dimensional 
form.
Mary Carlisles work is about fire and 
landscapes. She will be showing mostly 
photographs with one or two paintings and 
a videotape. The paintings, made with wax, 
tar, sheet metal and photo-processes are 
ways of getting at photography without 
using photographs themselves. The work 
is large and Carlisle, a transfer student from 
the Art Institute of Chicago, explains that 
her previous study of performance art 
makes her crave immediacy with other art 
forms she works in. She considers photo
graphs small and too intimate so she 
makes them bigger by projecting the image 
onto a large, light-sensitive canvas, stating, 
I want something confrontational.
There will be a videotape, Arson, showing 
burning furniture in landscapes with a 
human side. It takes on a different meaning 
than the pictures, Carlisle states. Mary 
constantly refers back to mythology and 
religion, since her interest lies in playing 
with the dual roles fire has there  as a 
destructive and purifying force. She ex
plains, People can get from the fire what 
they want, but I hope they will come away 
with some sense of their own perception.
S he sees fire as destructive but explains that 
for artists, it is our job to prompt different 
responses.
Landscapes hold a moody seductiveness 
for Carlisle and she feels that they are 
something everyone has in common. She 
adds that landscapes possess a sensuous
ness and humanness even though there may 
be no human presence. Because nature is 
so vast and sublime it gives man his place in 
the world and helps keep ourselves in 
perspective.
While her work has certain dream/night
mare qualities to it, Carlisle does not con
sider herself a surrealist, explaining sim
ply, Im attracted to things with an edge. 
She starts with an idea and uses the materi
als which will best realize that idea, stating, 
I find the best means to the end. Carlisle 
considers herself an impatient artist who 
does not spend enough time on each work: 
None of the pieces are masters. Every
thing in the show is an experiment I  ve been 
working with for the past two months.
O
'r/n:
AFFORDABLEFLOORS
i MUD SHARKS
d U QWg- ,
. rn.f .f j, W
(or*, aufst pe*-
Vfe i I\I_L. VolVoumeo82u
HUNCH I ES!
beur,s
CARNEGIE MELLON STUDENTS
are invited to learn about 
a career in the
MANAGEMENT CONSULTING
DIVISION
OfPEAT MARWICK
All are welcome to attend a
PRESENTATION
Thursday, November 5th, 5:30 PM 
Masters Auditorium
Reception Refreshments To Follow

---------------------------------------------------

Fl0 cTWT p
TRY YOUR SKILLS ON THIS PUZZLE AND ENTER A DRAWING FOR $50.00.
A CERTAIN WITCH HAD IN HER EMPLOY HONEST GOBLINS 
AND DISHONEST GOBLINS. UNFORTUNATELY, THEY LOOKED 
EXACTLY ALIKE AND COULDN'T BE TOLD APART ON SIGHT. 
THE WITCH KNEW CERTAIN THINGS ABOUT THE GOBLINS:
1) HONEST GOBLINS ALWAYS TELL THE TRUTH.
2) DISHONEST GOBLINS ALWAYS LIE.
THE WITCH CALLED IN TWO OF HER GOBLINS, AND THE 
FOLLOWING DIALOGUE OCCURRED:
GOBLIN B SAID,"EXACTLY ONE OF US IS HONEST."
THE WITCH ASKED GOBLIN A THE QUESTION, "ARE YOU 
BOTH THE SAME TYPE?" GOBLIN A ANSWERED EITHER YES 
OR NO AND THE WITCH KNEW THE TYPE OF GOBLIN A.
WHAT WAS THE TYPE OF GOBLIN A, AND HOW DID THE ' 
WITCH KNOW?
SEND YOUR SOLUTION TO THE PUZZLE AND $1 ENTRY FEE 
THROUGH CAMPUS MAIL TO KDR. ENTER AS OFTEN AS YOU 
LIKE. ENTRY DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, NOV 13. ALL CORRECT 
SOLUTIONS WILL BE ENTERED IN A DRAWING TO BE HELD 
FRIDAY, NOV 20, 10:00pm AT KDR HOUSE. (WINNER NEED 
NOT BE PRESENT).
To the freshman with the hip shoes, Elvis 
pins and attitude. Drop the attitude and 
say hello sometime.
-Fondly other Elvis fans
Bryan- Get a brain!
BOB ROSS FOREVER!
Thank the Lord for Charles E. Goodyear!
SteveDont worry, there are people 
worse at basketball than you.
WL 2.0
Pika 1, DU 0
The Rack Monster lives!
SWMSeeks live, human female, but is 
willing to compromise. Would prefer, 
however, a mammal, or at least a mouthbreather of some kind. Reply to JCKSeeks- Mou th - B rea th er
Snuff got Reeboks!
Dont be so cynical!
Jen,
MEOW
- L,J & A
Is this funny?
Inspector Blankovitch, G. of KGB; com
plete your mission at once and report to 
headquarters.
Go Tartans!
Carmenza,
Porque no me hablas?
-Sabio
Manute,
Clean your shit up!
I just wanted to see if these really 
worked.
-M
Too bad Patty,
Too bad Patty,
Too bad Patty,
La La La La La La
Roaches are taking over our house!
Scrambled eggs on DU 
Morewood 5A & B is awesome.
MartaHow's Mom and Dad?
-Troy
KennethWhats the frequency?
Hey, how bout those DYNAMIC 
RAMS!!! You had a terrific season, guys. 
Nice going!
-The Fans 
p.s. Phil, get well real soon!
Trendy GeekHow would you like "Wild and
Wooly?"
-Teniqua
To the Halloween FairyThanks for the wish.
-Me
S.-
Ro'ee, ro'ee, ro'ee yer boat...
LORALike the cigarette? Interested in
Dinner?
-CAVEAT LECTOR
krri8rJsdsryf
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 W mer Hall on Wednesday, No
vember 9. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set u;> an appointment.
Student Ombuds. ^an will have open office 
hours for students to liscuss t o: cems and help 
resolve problems. I ys and times available 
for appointments are at rhe Skibo Information 
desk @x2107 between 9 am- 5 pm. 
Interested in Communications? Like to 
hear yourself talk? Broadcasting positions are 
available for WRCT News. Call x2883 for 
more information.
On the Line: The New Color Photojourna
lism. An exhibition of color photographs 
organized by the Walker Art Center in Min
neapolis. Through November 8. Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, 407 South Craig Street. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am ,- 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of draw
ing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon Art Gal
lery features contemporary works on paper. 
Through November 8. Gallery Hours are 10 
am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 
pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
A site-specific installation by Larry Cressman, created to use the entire gallery space. 
Hewlett Gallery, CFA, 1 st floor. November 7 
through December 10. Gallery Hours are: 11 
am - 4 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 
4 pm, Sunday.
Six Artists: Two and Three Dimensions.
An exhibition on the interrelationships of the 
drawings and three-dimensional work of 
Mary Bero, Dale Chihuly, Anne Currier, 
Christine Federighi, Peter Gourfain and Mark 
Kobasz. Through November 8. The Society 
for the Art in Crafts; 21st and Smallman 
Streets, the Strip District. Gallery Hours are: 
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Mouton Rothchild Paintings for the Labels.
An exhibition of the artwork by such great 
contemporary artists as Chagall, Klee and 
Braque that was commissioned by the Baron 
Philippe de Rothchild in the years following 
World War II for the Mouton Rothchild labels 
of his Chateau Mouton. Hunt Institute, 5th 
floor; November 9 through December 18. 
Portrait, by Ed Dixon. A new musical work 
in progress* based on Oscar Wildes The 
Portrait of Dorian Gray. 8 pm, November 4- 
7, 10-14; 2 pm, November 7,14.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Attention Catholic Singles!!! Are you look
ing to be a part of a group that has a little bit of 
everything for your activities, social, reli
gious, sports, community service, etc.? If you 
would like an organization that has all these
qualities, plus being with people that share 
your own ideas, educational and employment 
background, and other interests, call the 
Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh at 341- 
4070 or 461-2247.
The Cardinal Wright Oratory Choir is
looking for young men and women to sing at 
the Solemn Liturgies celebrated in Heinz 
Chapel at noon each Sunday. Rehearsals are 8 
pm on Thursday evenings at The Oratory, 
4040 Bigelow Boulevard. For more informa
tion call 655-2169.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are dealing with attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
The Great Miniature Railroad and Village. 
November 6 through Febniary 28. 2 pm, 
Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
First Light. Through November 17. 2 pm, 
Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Moncfay through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Theatre. The
Ghost of Mr. Penny. Mr. Penny has disappeared-and for ten years his secret has been 
hidden in his haunted house. Four adventur
ous children and an amiable but shrewd hobo 
join forces to explore the old Penny 
mansion...and solve the mystery! 11 am, 2:30 
pm, Saturday; 2:30 pm, Sunday. Through 
November 8. For ticket information call 621 - 
4445.
e,
-------1
nricosl
682-3738
j 119 Meyran Avenue (Oakland) 
j Between Forbes & Fifth ^ 
^Mon. 9-3:30 Tues.-Sat.
CRUISE SHIPS
Nov.* Hiring. M/F Summer & Career Op
portunities (Will Train). Excellent pay plus 
world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, 
etc. CALL NOW206-7364775 Ext. 536H
orn
Save $2 on 
wash & cut only j 
with this ad J
 i
Walk-in or I 
by Appointment I 
682-37381
AlwaysSameLow Price! |

---------------------------------------------------

November 3,1987The TartanPage Dl
W Msryf
a b8sfNP
v_______________________________________
Movies
The Hunger, starring Catherine Deneuve, 
Susan Sarandon and David Bowie. If you like 
Vampires, high fashion, and a little decadence, 
youll like this film. Its like a series of often 
striking images that linger in the mind. Pitts
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
* Metallurgical Engineering and Materials 
Science Seminar. Dr. Everett Bloom, Oak 
Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN, 
speaks on Materials for Fusion Energy at 3 
pm in WeH 7500. Informal discussions and 
refreshments follow in WeH 2325. 
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor William L. Olbricht, 
Cornell University, speaks on Models of
* Blood Cell Distribution in the Microcircula
tion at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and pastries 
served at 10:45 in Conference Room DH 
1102.
Workshops
Independent Job Search. Campus inter
views are not meant to be your only job search
* strategy! Come learn where else you can 
distribute your resumes using want ads, infor
mal contacts, address directories, walk-in vis
its, and employment agencies. Students of all 
majors welcome. 4:30 pm in Skibo Rm. 13.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De' partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
4 FsNrsfNP
v 1
Movies
"*> A Boy and His Dog, starring Don Johnson, 
Susanne Benton and Jason Robards. Off-thewall sci-fi tale about a man and his clever dog 
Blood who are survivors in a bleak wilderness 
in 2024. For cult fans. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
v Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Graduate Seminar. Dr. R.C. Dean, Jr., 
Verax Corp., speaks on Opportunities in 
Biotechnology for Mechanical Engineers at 
3:30 pm in SH 125. Refreshments are served 
at 3 pm in SH 322.
American Society of Mechanical Engineers 
Seminar. Nuclear Engineering at 4:30 pm 
in Scaife Lounge, 3rd floor. For more infor^ mation, call x4287.
Department of Art Visiting Artist Lecture. 
Larry Cressman, artist, speaks about his sitespecific installation for Carnegie Mellons 
Hewlett Gallery at 7 pm in the Adamson Wing, 
BH.
ECKANKAR, The Ancient Art of Soul 
Travel. Western Pennsylvania area ECK
ANKAR, "Who Is In Control Of Your Mind?" 
^ Pittsburgh Eck Center, 413 Semple Street. For 
information call 681-9539.
Workshops
Cover Letters & More. Create a positive 
impression upon potential employers with 
your careful and business-like approach to 
written communications. Learn about differ-o
ent types of letters you might be required to 
prepare during a job search, including cover 
letters, acceptance of an offer, decline of an 
offer and others used in that process. 4:30 pm 
in Skibo Rm. 12.
Special Events
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Department of Architecture sponsors a pro
gram on Shelters for the Homeless at 4:30 in 
DH 1212.r ' "..~n
_ bm8DfNP
Movies
The Horses Mouth, starring Alec Guinness 
and Kay Walsh. Guinness is perfect as an 
eccentric painter in this adaptation of the Joyce 
Cary novel. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sincerely Charlotte, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission 
$1.
Lectures
Department of Psychology Colloquium.
Dr. Frank Vellutino, State University of NY at 
Albany, speaks on Do Dyslexics See Letters 
Backwards? at 4 pm in the Adamson Wing, 
BH. Coffee is served before the lecture in the 
Psychology Lounge, BH 336-D. 
Department of Architecture Lecture. 
Susanna Torre, Architect & Educator, Associ
ate Professor of Architecture, Columbia Uni
versity, Graduate School of Architecture, 
speaks at 8:30 pm in WeH 7500.
Safe Sex Symposium. Sponsored by the 
Carnegie Care Unit. Dr. Bruce Dixon, Al
legheny County Department of Health, and 
Dr. David Lyter, Pittsburgh Mens Study, 
discuss the practices of safe sex and the 
implications of AIDS and other sexually trans
mitted diseases. A question/answer period 
follows. 6:30 pm - 8 pm in WeH 7500.
Workshops
On-Site Visits. Youve received an invitation 
to visit the company for a second interview. 
Well discuss the dynamics of this visit: how 
to prepare for it; what may occur during the 
visit; what may be expected of you. 4:30 pm in 
Skibo Rm. 13.
Music
Concert by the Latin American String Quar
tet at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute Auditorium.
Special Events
Business Opportunities Conference, spon
sored by AI ME. Job Fair for all undergraduate 
students interested in business careers at 11 am
- 5 pm in the Skibo Ballroom.
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Department sponsors a German Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
RDnNP
v_______________________________________J
Movies
Dragnet, starring Dan Aykroyd, Tom Hanks, 
Christopher Plummer and Dabney Coleman. 
Funny spoof of the old TV show with Aykroyd 
playing Joe Fridays nephew. Pittsburgh Play
house at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Platoon, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at
6 pm, 8:30 pm, and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Academic Computing Seminar. Bruce 
Sherwood speaks on CMU Tutor Language 
and Programming For Education and Re
search at 3:30 pm in the Adamson Wing, BH.
n cPy8DNP
Movies
Hollywood Shuffle. Townsend wrote, di
rected and stars in this often hilarious film 
about being a black actor in Hollywood mov
ies. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Angel Heart, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $ 1.
Sports
Football. Home game against Bethany Col
lege, 1:30 pm.
c8rNP
Movies
The Greatest Show on Earth, starring Betty 
Gutton, Charlton Heston, Cornel Wilde, 
Dorothy Lamour and James Stewart. A super 
cast in this affectionate look at circus perform
ers. Stewart is wonderful as the clown. PittsBIPffn^nsNf
=Jobs/Wanted =
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for home
workers to perform mail services. Incentive pro
grams available. For information send large self 
addressed stamped envelope to U.S.A., 24307 
Magic Mtn. Pkwy., Suite #306, Valencia, CA 
91355.
STUDENT EMPLOYMENT OFFICE
63 jobs still available to all CMU students, both 
work-study and non work-study eligible. Cleri
cal  Programming  Word Processing. Pick up a 
job directory in the Financial Aid Office, Warner 
Hall. Job Assistance interviews available. Call 
X2068.
PART TIME-HOME MAILING PROGRAM! 
Excellent income! Details, send self-addressed, 
stamped envelope. WEST, Box 5877, Hillside, 
NJ 07205.
LEARN LISP PROGRAMMING AND GET 
PAID FOR IT. The CMU Psychology Depart
ment is conducting an experiment on learning to 
program in Lisp that is open to CMU undergradu
ates. The experiment is 1.5 hours long and covers 
roughly 25% of an introductory Lisp course. No 
prior programming experience is required. Pay 
rate ranges from $4.00/hr - $6.00+/hr. For more 
information, call x3438.
TYPISTSHundreds weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066.
-.....  Housing '
Walk to Campus! Recently remodeled, 2 BR 
furnished apt. $380 + utilities. No pets. Immedi
ately. Call 655-1972.
FOR SALE BY OWNER: Sq. Hill, at edge of 
Schenley Park. Beautiful, modem, spacious 3BR,
2 Bath, central A/C., fully carpeted, outstanding 
closet space, 2 porches, basement laundry, inte
gral 2-car garage, garden, carriage house. Phone 
521-0179.
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admissiot 
$2.95.
Goldfinger, sponsored by AB Films. D1 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1
O girNP
Movies
The Buddy Holly Story, starring Gary Buse> 
Charles Martin Smith and Don Stroud. Excel 
lent performance by Busey in this strong filr 
bio of Buddy Hollys life. Pittsburgh Play 
house at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admissioi 
$2.95.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Languagt 
Department sponsors a Japanese Languagt 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dininj 
hall.
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella
neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to 
Campus Calendar / University Relations / 
Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Send it by campus mail to the above 
address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The
house between AY and ATQ).
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addition 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information will 
be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Event listing. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
 Misc =====
Parties... Parties... Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart
- One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, 
New Years, and much more. Over 10,000 square 
feet of party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide 
variety of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood 
Avenue at Baum. 681 -8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! 
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, 
Los Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, 
Ext. 33. Visa/MCorCOD.
FEMALE SMOKERlearn more about your 
bodys responses to stress and smoking, and earn 
$20 in a two-hour session. Blood samples taken. 
For info, call Female Smokers Study521 - 
4647.________________________________
NEED A CAR? New or used, w/ or w/o accesso
ries. Call Peggy Eshelman, 578-8444.
Eckankar, the Ancient Science of Soul Travel. 
Western PA area Eckankar. Who is In Control of 
Your Mind? Wednesday, November 4,7:30 PM, 
Pittsburgh Eck Center, 413 Semple Street. 681- 
9539.
........- Services ===
Typing/Writing Services-Term papers, disser- j 
tations, thesis, resumes. Spelling & grammar I 
included. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 486- - 
8577.
MTS 24-hour Typing/Word Processing (Spe
cializes in last minute work) Same day Resume j 
service. Typewriter rental available short/long 
term leases. 371-3657.
TYPING. Manuscripts, thesis, resumes, etc. 
professional quality. Pick up and delivery avail
able. call Chris 681-5292.
 -  Personals 
St. Jude Novena: May the sacred heart of Jesus 
be loved, adored, glorified, and preserved 
throughout the world now and forever. Oh sacred 
heart of Jesus, pray for us. St. Jude, helper of the 
hopeless, pray for us. Say this prayer nine times 
a day and your wish will be granted on the 18th 
day. It has never been known to fail.

---------------------------------------------------

The worlds fastest growing software company and 
largest vendor of database management software 
and services
StDLDaDrS
A1987 Software News survey 
ranks Oracle as the ONLY topfive supplier of software for 
mainframes, minicomputers 
and personal computers. 
ORACLE, our SQL-based, 
relational database manage
ment system, and our family of 
application development tools 
and decision support prod
ucts are emerging as industry 
standards for every class of 
computer.
We are recruiting for positions in Marketing, 
Consulting, Development, Finance, International 
and other areas within Oracle. If you are interested 
in opportunities at Oracle, please call or write:
StD yaS
Oracle Corporations revenues 
have more than doubled in 
nine of our ten fiscal years (the 
other year we grew 91%). This 
unprecedented growth is the 
direct result of the focused 
efforts of our unparalleled, 
company-wide team of super
achievers.
StD nuSuLD
If you are accustomed to 
success with an uncommon 
insistence on doing everything 
well, you can become part of 
this growth. We are recruiting 
now to staff our expansion of 
service and product offerings 
around the world. Join Oracles 
team and help us continue our 
record of success.
Larry Lynn 
Oracle Corporation 
20 Davis Drive 
Belmont, California 94002 
415 7598/8183 or 8124
