The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 9, November 12, 1985.
Senate votes 
down Honor 
Code
Auxiliary "not hot to move" to Skibo
By DON EGGERT
Special to The Tartan
Months of planning, a commitment for 
funding, and other preparations have all 
been canceled, as the proposal to replace 
student meeting rooms in Skibo was 
withdrawn by the administration.
The plan, which called for moving Aux
iliary Services from the second floor of 
Warner Hall to Rooms 11-13 in Skibo, met 
with heavy criticism from faculty and 
students. The Faculty Senate Executive 
Committee sent President Richard Cyert a 
letter recently, protesting planned realloca
tions of student space in Skibo and Hunt 
Library without student consultation or 
i consent.
Vice President for Business Affairs Fred 
Rogers, who oversees the operation of Aux
iliary Services, explained that the aborted 
move was considered because the Student 
Affairs offices, under Dean Braden Walter, 
are having problems operating properly due 
to a lack of space. Student Affairs and Aux
iliary Services share a small area near the 
Financial Aid Office. Rogers commented, 
The feeling was that there is a problem ser
ving students one way or another. In fact, 
Auxiliary was not hot to move.
One of the major benefits of the proposal 
was that the Parking Office, part of Aux
iliary, would have been moved in close pro
ximity to the visitor parking area in Skibo 
lot, providing easy availability for those un
familiar with the campus. Moreover, Student 
Affairs would receive the extra space in 
Warner Hall, giving students more privacy 
with Dean Walter, Dean Lois Cox, and their
assistants.
Asked about the liabilities of the move, 
Rogers stated, The biggest shortcoming of 
the plan is that while decisions were made, 
there were no discussions with students. 
Students were not informed until everything 
was decided. Planning for the move was 
done over a period of at least cwo months, 
and involved Dean Walter, the Planning Of
fice, and Oscar Mayer, Director of Auxiliary 
Services. In addition, the Space Allocation 
Board, whose membership includes top ad
ministration, originally gave its approval to 
the proposal. Estimated cost for the changes 
was $50,000.
A suggestion has been made by some that 
the proposal was considered because the 
discomfort caused by loss of the student 
meeting rooms would soon be alleviated by
construction of the new addition to Skibo. 
According to Rogers, that idea is incorrect, 
and is the wrong way to sell it. Rogers 
pointed out that student needs were still be
ing served, because the crowded offices are, 
in fact, very much a student problem also. 
He said, On the practical side, the meeting 
rooms are used most heavily at night, and 
classrooms should be able to substitute.
Rogers cautioned against the presump
tion by students that the administration is 
not interested in students, in spite of the fact 
that Dean Walter and others did not con
sult students on the proposed plan. He add
ed, An incredible amount of energy and 
time goes into solving student problems, and 
it does no one any good to throw a brick 
through the window.
offers Computer trackChem Dept
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter 
The CMU Chemistry Department recent
ly released their new brochures introducing 
the new Computer Science track in the 
Chemistry Department.
Chemistry Department assistant head Dr. 
Robert Richman said the program is in
 .response to the interest we are seeing in 
high school seniors in computer science. Ac
cording to Richman, Now there are more 
people who know they want computer 
science but dont know of a specialty. 
Scientists have traditionally been the peoi pie to use computers. First, most people have 
I studied for their B. S. and then they have 
if subdivided in graduate school for their 
I specialty, said Richman. He broke 
B chemistry down into four basic divisions,
 theoretical, experimental physical, ex
perimental synthetic, and analytical. Each
 field uses computers in some way.
 T his is a radical way of educating, said
 Richman, referring to the program of studies
 that will be followed by students who opt tor
this major. During their freshman and 
sophomore years, students will take courses 
in chemistry and computer science, without 
any interaction between the two.
In their junior year, students will take a 
survey course called Computational 
Chemistry in order to find an area of special
ty they like. Then students will take two 
courses in their specialty. Richman com
pared the program to the computer scienceapplied math program.
I think the computer science and major 
in mathematics is a great program but there 
is no specialty to apply it to.  he said
The impetus came from Scaife Hall in 
MCS. They are doing this in other depart
ments but its not called a computer science 
track. An advisory committee to MCS about 
two or three years ago recommended that 
other departments expand and this is a 
result of that recomendation. he said.
Richman stressed the fact that the pro
gram is very much in an experimental stage: 
.. .a lot depends on how successful it is. The
chemistry department is watching to see if 
its a good way to develop a chemistry 
specialty and the computer science depart
ment is waiting to see if this is a good way 
to teach computer science.
The program is a way to provide more 
jobs in the computer science fields, said 
Richman, who sees the market for computer 
scientists without a specialty drying up. 
There are job limitations in the market. 
The academic community cant adjust fast 
enough. Computer science should be ap
plied to all fields in order to adapt.- 
Richman said that this will allow people to 
enter the field without a Ph.D. Recruiters 
who want computer science people will be 
interested in these graduates. Chemistry 
companies will want them also in addition 
to what they are doing now because this 
supplements everything else in chemistry. 
Richman expects a big response to the 
program from interested high school seniors 
and recruiters. I see this as a coming trend 
in order to prevent the job market from dry
ing up.
In This issue:
News
CMU gets new look...................page 2
MTV.............................................................page 4
Features
CMU Skateboarders...................page 9
Scotland Yard................................page 15
Entertainment
Morris Day leads The Time" page 17 
James Galway................................page 19
Sports
Volleyball finishes........................page 25
Hockey wins....................................page 27
Editorial................................................page 30
ACME................................................page 35
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate voted on November 5 not 
to accept a revised Honor Code proposal but 
to form a committee to further examine the 
honor code issue.
Students came to the conclusion that 
there is a need for some sort of honor code, 
but not necessarily in the form we 
presented, said Cindy Taylor, Chair of Stu
dent Senates Academic Affairs Committee. 
I was asked to help put together a commit
tee of students and faculty to look into the 
various possibilities brought up at the Senate 
Meeting. Considering how committees work, 
the earliest time for having something sub
mitted to Student Senate (from the Honor 
Code Committee) would be the next school 
year.
The Academic Affairs Committee wrote 
continued on page 5
Jeff Muller of The Time accepts first place congratulations from emcee Scott Jones at the Air band contest. For more on the 
contest, see Entertainment.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 12, 1985
tions constantly.
The first weekend in March is when the 
actual competition will be held. The con
testants will perform and tally sheets will be 
posted showing each contestants standing 
before the performance. Each dollar is a 
vote, and the group that raises the most 
money will go further in the competition.
CMU is located in the seventh of eight 
regions in the country. There are 21 colleges 
competing in the Northeast region. Univer
sity of Pittsburgh recently dropped out of the 
competition.
The winner of the regionals will go to New 
York and perform on MTV along with seven 
other contestants from the other seven 
regions. From here, the competition will pro
ceed in a way similar to Friday Night Video 
Fights. The eight contestants will perform, 
and viewers from all over the nation can call 
in and vote.
MTV will award the winning campus with 
a live concert featuring a major musical 
group. One person from the winning lip-sync 
group will get a summer internship with 
MTV.
All organizations on this campus are en
couraged to participate. Presently, Shargh 
is working with Student Government presi
dent Karen Lee, in preparation for this 
massive event.
The IFC has agreed to donate all proceeds 
from Greek Sing to this cause and is en
couraging all Greek organizations to take 
part. %
Registration forms will be available at 
Skibo information desk. Other questions 
may be directed to Faramarz Mouse 
Shargh.
With all of this excitement, it is sometimes
easy to lose sight of the cause, according to 
Shargh. This competition is being held to 
raise money for Multiple Sclerosis(MS). 
Multiple Sclerosis is a progressively 
deteriorating disease for which there is 
presently no cure. Over a quarter of a 
million Americans have MS.
Frats raise big 
funds for charity
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
During the past few weeks, some frater
nities have held a series for fundraisers for 
different charities.
Theta Xi raised $1,650 this weekend for 
three different organizations: Multiple 
Sclerosis, The Karin Johnson Asthma Fund, 
and Suicide Prevention Center.
Last Friday, the fraternity held a MiniMiracle Mile in between Baker and Doher
ty Halls, in which they changed all donations 
into quarters and laid them out on the 
sidewalk to see how far the donations would 
extend.
Theta Xi brother Reid Horowitz said the 
brothers were very surprised with the out
come of this event, as they received 3,200 
quarters fora total of $800.
Later that evening Theta Xi held a party 
with Kappa Delta Rho for the fundraiser. 
They charged two dollars at the door and 
raised another $850. The distribution of 
money between the three organizations has 
not been decided yet.
Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa Kappa
Gamma Sorority were also successful in their 
fundraiser for UNICEF. According to Phi 
Kappa Theta brother, Doug Nelson, they 
raised $484 from several events. The frater
nity and sorority sold pumpkin pies at 
Homecoming, sold T-shirts, collected outside 
of Doherty Hall and held a party with a one 
dollar admission charge at the door.
Pi Kappa Alpha, for their philanthropy 
project, raised money for The Big Brothers 
and Big Sisters of America.
Pi Lambda Phi, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 
and Sigma Nu are planning fundraisers for 
next semester. Also, Beta Theta Pi is look
ing forward to their main fundraiser, The 
March of Dimes Party in the Spring.
MTV highlights campus fundraisers
MTV sponsors iip 
sync contest for MS
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
CMU is one of 150 colleges nationwide 
that will participate in a Multiple Sclerosis 
fundraiser sponsored by Music 
Television( MTV).
The contest, called Rock-Alike, is a lipsync competition similar to airband. Every 
organization on campus is encouraged to 
participate.
Campus Chairperson Faramarz Shargh, 
a Theta Xi brother, went down to Florida 
for a briefing and preparation.
The organization on campus that raises 
the most money through their contestant or 
group will represent CMU at the regionals.
For all colleges competing in Rock-Alike, 
the events on each campus take place 
simultaneously.
The first weekend in February is the kickoff party. CMUs will be held in Skibo 
Ballroom and the charge will be three 
dollars. Each dollar counts as a vote, so each 
person will be given three votecards. All con
testants on campus will be seen, but they will 
not perform.
On February 14, there will be a Heart of 
Rock n Roll party. Again, an admission fee 
will be charged. That, in turn, will be 
changed into quarters and deposited into a 
big heart. The goal is to fill the heart.
In the meantime, organizations can raise 
money for their contestants any way possi
ble. MTV will be advertising for the dona
No matter how much weight youve lost  10,20,30,50 pounds  you think that 
losing just five more will make things perfect The trouble is that five pounds later things 
are not perfect.
Then you think perhaps another five pounds will do the trick. And so the cycle 
begins. And so does anorexia.
Anorexia is a serious, life-threatening disorder of deliberate self-starvation. The term 
anorexia nervosa" is a misnomer, because it means lack of appetite due to nerves  In 
actuality, the reverse is true: The person is obsessed with food, weight, counting calories 
and exercise.
The greater Pittsburgh areas Anorexia Bulimia Treatment and Education Center 
(ABtec'") at The Medical Center of Beaver County has a specially trained staff to help you 
identify the symptoms of eating disorders and, if necessary, provide treatment for the 
illness. ABtec offers a variety of services, including an inpatient treatment program and 
the ABtec Support Group, which provides an opportunity for open discussion of feelings, 
attitudes and behaviors
If I could lose just five more pounds" is the kind of thinking that can add up to a lifethreatening illness. Let The Medical Center of Beaver Countys ABtec show you how 
to get help.
Attend T Free ABtec Support 
Group Meeting TUs Saturday 
Prom 8:80 a.m. until Noon
The Anorexia Bulimia Treatment 
and Education Center atThe Medical Center of Beaver County
1000 Dutch Ridge Road 
Beaver, Pennsylvania 15009 
Within R* phone toll-free 
1-800-62ABTEC 
Outside R* phone toll-free 
1-800-78ABTEC
WINTERBREAK
Each year cancer strikes 120,000 people in our 
work force, and causes our economy to lose 
more than $10 billion in earnings. Earnings that 
American workers might still be generating if 
they had known the simple facts on how to 
protect themselves from cancer.
Protect your employees, your company, and 
yourself... call your local unit of the American 
Cancer Society and ask for their free pamphlet, 
Helping Your Employees to Protect Them
selves Against Cancer.v Start your company I*, 
on a policy of good health today!\ AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
Help us sponsor your 
schools winterbreak 
ski trip and ski free!
LUVT****
(800) 368-2006 TOLL FREE
HOWARDJOHNSON
Lodge
119 Newly Remodeled Rooms

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University 
presents the
1985 Benjamin F. Fairless Lecture
"Competing in the New Gtobal Environment"
delivered by John A. Young
President and Chief Executive Officer 
Hewlett-Packard Company
Thursday, November 14, 1985 
5:30 p.m. Skibo Ballroom
Admission is free 
Tickets are available in the Public Relations Office
5017 Forbes Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------..    ------------------------------- -------
Page 4The TartanNovember 12, 1985
New design replaces CMU logo
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor in Chief
By the first of next year, Carnegie-Mellon 
University will have established a new design 
signature, replacing the block CMU logo on 
publications, stationery and other visual 
media.
Vice President for University Relations 
Keith Moore is a member of a committee 
which includes Senior Vice President for 
Academic Affairs John P. Crecine, Dean of 
CFA Akram Midani, design professor Bob 
Swinehart, Vice President for Enrollment 
William Elliott, and designer Bob Fowler. 
The committee is preparing to make a
ie
recommendation that the university adopt 
one specific signature for the campus.
The signature, a term used by Moore, 
that the committee recommends is a square 
tilted on a 14-degree angle with the words 
Carnegie Mellon jutting out beyond the 
border of the box. The words Carnegie 
Mellon are leading on to new areas. It says 
something, said Moore.
The purpose of the logo is to bring the 
public image of the University up to date. 
Eighteen years ago a logo was designed to 
illustrate that Carnegie Tech and Mellon In
stitute were merging. This new design is 
much more diverse, as is the university.
There are so many dynamic areas, with a 
wide range of people, he said.
In keeping with that purpose, the com
mittee wanted a versatile signature. Its not 
really a logo, because it can take so many 
different steps. If its approved, I hope youll 
see some of the new pieces by next semester, 
said Moore.
Crecine, the highest ranking academic ofthat nobody ever knew the meaning of. The 
word university will be prominent in 
publications and in the letterhead.
To insist that university is on the 
nameplate of every piece of print is redun
dant. Other universities, such as Johns 
Hopkins, Yale, Stanford, and Harvard, that 
the university doesnt have to be used, its im
plied. Id like to think that were on that 
level.
The block CMU is obscure, unattractive, 
and has been complained about for the five 
years that I have been here. Ill take the 
credit and the blame for driving it off cam
pus, said Moore.
ficer at CMU, has been very prominent on 
the committee, assuring that the academic 
view of the university is taken into account.
Rumors have been going around campus 
that the word University will be removed 
from the schools title. Thats not true, said 
Moore. The irony is that the signature will 
replace the block CMU, a group of initials
rCarnegieMellon
j
The Marines College of Music
150 WEST 85TH STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10024  212-580-0210
AUDITION DATES:
January 1986 (by arrangement)March 5. 6. 7. 8. 1986 May 21.22.23. 1986September 1986 dates to be announced.
Scholarships are available.
M.M., Post-Graduate Diploma, 
B.M., B.S., Diploma
Major Fields of Study
Ensembles in Residence
The Galimir String Quartet 
The Mannes Trio
PIANO
Edward AJdwett 
Arkady Aronov 
David Bar-1 Han 
Claude Frank 
Richard Goode 
Jeannette Haien 
Eugenia Hyman 
LHton Kallir 
Leon Pommers 
Mane Powers 
Josef Raieff 
Peter Serfcin 
Nina Svetta nova 
Diane Walsh
HARPSICHORD 
Kenneth Cooper 
Eugenia Earle
ORGAN and CHURCH MUSIC 
Ford Laiierstedt 
McNeil Robinson 
William Whitehead
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS 
Nina Beilina, Violin 
Raphael Bronstein.
Violin and Violo 
Isidore Cohen, Violin 
Felix Galimir, Violin 
Shirley Givens. Violin 
Ani Kavafian. Violin 
Dora Schwarzberg, Violin 
Sally Thomas, Violin 
Hiroko Yajima. Violin 
Paul Doktor, Viola and Violin 
John Graham, Viola 
Sol Greitzer, Viola 
tm Kashkashtan, Viola 
Karen Tuttte, Viola 
Timothy Eddy, Violoncello 
Gary Hoffman, Violoncello 
Paul Tobias, Violoncello 
Julius Levine. Double Bass 
Homer Mensch, Double Bass
HARP
Gloria Agostini 
Luciie Lawrence
TYMPANI and PERCUSSION
Norman Grossman 
Howard Van Hyning 
Chris Lamb 
Walter Rosenberger
WOODWIND and BRASS
Andrew Lotya, Flute 
Thomas Nyfenger, Flute 
John Wion, Flute 
Elaine Douvas, Oboe 
Albert Gottzer, Oboe 
Mark Hill, Oboe 
Ronald Roseman, Oboe 
Gervase de Peyer. Clarinet 
Peter Simenauer. Clarinet 
Burt Bial, Bassoon and 
Contrabassoon 
Harold Goltzer, Bassoon 
Judith LeC'air, Bassoon 
Allen Won, Saxophone 
Myron Bloom, French Horn 
Antonio lervotino, French Horn 
Ranter Delntinis, French Horn 
Philip Myers, French Hem 
Mel Broiles, Trumpet 
Vincent Penzerella, Trumpet 
James Smith, Trumpet 
John Ware, Trumpet 
Joe Alessi, Trombone 
Per Brevig. Trombone 
Gilbert Cohen, Trombone and 
Bass Trombone 
Donald Harwood. Bass Trombone 
Warren Deck, Tuba
CLASSICAL GUITAR
Eliot Fisk 
Frederic Hand 
Sharon Isbin 
Herbert Levine 
Michael Newman
ORCHESTRA and ORCHESTRAL CONDUCTING
Yakov Kreizberg
CHORUS and CHORAL CONDUCTING 
Amy Kaiser, Music Director
VOICE
Charles Bressler 
Thomas Cultice 
Peter Elkus 
EUenFauN 
Antonia lavanne 
Dan Marek 
Marian Thompson 
Theodor Uppman
DICTION
Nico Castei, French. German.
and Italian 
Dorothy Uris, English
VOCALCHAMBER MUSIC 
Fred ric Popper
ACTING and STAGECRAFT 
Wesley Balk 
Nina David 
Louis Peterson
OPERA COACHING
Marshall Williamson
SONGINTERPRETATION 
Antonia Lavanne
HISTORICAL PERFORMANCE 
Valerie Horst.
Program Coordinator 
Julianne Baird, Voice 
Charles Bressler, Voice 
Marcy Lmdheimer, Voice 
Kenneth Cooper, Harpsichord 
Lionel Party, Harpsichord 
Patrick O'Brien, Lute 
Nancy Wilson, Baroque Violin.
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Myron Lutzke, Baroque Cello 
Michael Willens, Violone 
Judith Davidoff,
Viola da Gamba 
Lawrence Dreyfus,
Viola da Gamba 
Richard Taruskin,
Viola da Gamba 
Dennis Godburn, Recorder.
Baroque Bassoon, Dulcian 
Stephen Hammer, Recorder, 
Baroque Oboe.
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Philip Levin, Recorder.
Baroque Bassoon.
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Sandra Miller, Baroque Flute.
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Steven Silverstein, Cornetto 
Benjamin Peck, Sackbut.
Mannes Renaissance Band 
Benjamin Harms, Percussion 
Paul C. Echols, Director,
Mannes Camerata
CHAMBER MUSIC and ENSEMBLE 
Per Brevig 
Gilbert Cohen 
Paul Doktor 
Timothy Eddy 
Felix Galimir 
John Graham 
Howard Van Hyning 
Julius Levine 
Marie Powers 
Peter Simenauer 
Diane Walsh 
Hiroko Yajima
CONTEMPORARYENSEMBLE
Madeleine Shapiro
SECONDARY PIANO
Emilie Harris 
Miriam Kartch
COMPOSITION
Charles Jones 
David Loeb 
Peter Pindar Steams 
David Tcimpidis 
Frederick Werti
TECHNIQUES OF MUSIC 
Elizabeth Aaron 
Edward Aldweil 
Terry Champlin 
Robert Cuckson 
Douglas Diamond 
Leo Edwards 
David Gagne 
Charles Jones 
Ford Laiierstedt 
Larry Laskowski 
David Loeb 
Mei-Mei Meng 
William Needelman 
Frank Nemhauser 
Marie Powers 
Felix Salzer 
Cart Schachter 
Eric Wen 
Frederick Werlfi
PEDAGOGY
Emilie Harris 
Marie Powers 
Carl Schachter
ACADEMIC STUDIES 
Lotte P. Egers, Ph.D., German 
Thomas E. Goldstein, Ph.D., Western 
Civilization 
Andrew E. Green, M.M., History of 
Music
L Michael Griffel, Ph.D., Graduate 
Studies. Literature of Music 
Charles Kaufman, Ph.D., History of 
Music
Elinor Richter, Ph.D.. Art History 
Martin Smith, MA, English 
Composition. Literature 
Carol Rosen Xing, MA, English 
for Foreign Students
This is a complete listing of the faculty
NEW PROGRAMS:
M.M. in CompositionM.M. in Theory  M.M. in Historical Performance
FOR INFORMATION: Write or call Ms. Rena Springer, Director of Admissions 
The Mannes College of Music  150 West 85th Street, New York, N.Y. 10024212-580-0210

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 5
It's not too long until you'll be walking up to get 
your degree. But there's something you could get 
right now that will help you in any walk of life. The 
American Express Card.Because if youre a senior and youve accepted a $10,000 career-oriented job, you could get the American Express Card.
Thats it. No strings. No gimmicks. (And even if 
you dont have a job nght now, dont worry. This 
offer is still good for 12 months after you graduate.) 
This is a special offer from American Express be
cause, as graduating seniors, we think you're kind 
of special. In fact, we believe in your future. And
this is the best way we know to prove it.
Of couioe, the American Express Card will 
prove to be a great help to you in your careerfor 
travel and for entertaining. And, to entertain your
self, you can use it to buy some new clothes for 
work or some new things for home. In addition, the 
Card is also a great way to help you begin to estab
lish your credit history.
So call 1-800-THE-CARD and ask to have a Spe
cial Student Application sent to 
you. Or look for one on campus.The American Express Card. Dont leave school without it.31
Student Senate 
examines Honor 
Code issue
continued from page 1
the Honor Code on response to student and 
faculty concern. Student Senate was 
scheduled to vote on it October 29, but 
made some changes and decided to wait a 
week for more student input. After Student 
Senate approval, the Honor Code would 
proceed for voting to the faculty Senates 
Educational Affairs Committee, the entire 
Faculty Senate, then President Richard M. 
Cyert. The Honor Code would enter the Stu
dent Handbook.
Approximately twenty students joined 
Student Senators in a lively discussion about 
the proposed Honor Code at the November
5 meeting. Most students against the pro
posed version think the meaning is am
biguous, and argue that the Honor Code 
would therefore not significantly improve 
academic hon< sty.
This Honor Code is a piece of paper 
without enforcement. It needs more elabora
tion so it can be enforced, said Senator 
Seana Chun.
Shepard Bostin, Chair of the H&SS Stu
dent Affairs Council, said Most H&SS 
students I have talked to do not think it is 
necessary to have an Honor Code. Regula
tions have already been set up concerning 
academic policies and are contained in the 
Student Handbook. Instead, students and 
faculty should have a more active role in 
dispelling cheating and plagiarism at this 
university.
Students supporting the proposed Honor 
Code believe that it would be the beginn
ing of a policy that would significantly 
reduce academic dishonesty at CMU. This 
is a just first step! Developing an effective 
Honor Code is a slow process. It will take a 
long time to integrate, said Senator Cherie 
Jagerski.
It is most important to respond to stu
dent concerns with cheating, said Senator 
Fred Deleon. Twenty-one students were fail
ed in my Origins of Modern World class 
because they were caught cheating. There 
is a lack of trust between faculty and 
students, and we need to do something 
about it.
CMU copes with federal financial aid slashes
by ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Editorial Assistant
Eight hundred sixty million in 
Guaranteed Student Loan funding is plann
ed to be slashed from the Department of 
Educations financial aid budget over the 
next three years in an effort to help comply 
with the 1986 government budget resolution.
This stems from the Gramm-Rudman 
Senate amendment which is a governmen
tal plan to eliminate the federal budget 
deficit by 1991. The Senate has already pass
ed a bill that would require the federal 
budget deficit to be trimmed by $36 billion 
per year for the next six years.
A savings in the federal budget of less that 
per cent would result from the planned $868 
million cut in GSL funding.
The GSL program affords those students 
who are in financial need the possibility of 
attending a college and gaining an educa
tion through government funded loans. 
These loans are low-interest (currendy 8 per
cent) loans made to a student by a lender 
such as a bank or credit union. These loans by Jack Poller are insured by a guaranteeing agency and
CMU Financial Aid Assistant director repayment does not begin until six months
Paul Smith ___________________
after a student leaves school or ceases to be 
enrolled at least half time. The limit on the 
loans are $2500 per year with an aggregate 
limit of $14,500 and must be repaid within 
a ten year period after school is left.
Since the money is borrowed at very low 
interest rates, and since no interest is charged 
to the borrower for the time spent in school, 
the federal government subsidizes the bank 
or lending institution by paying an interest 
subsidy, currently at 10.8 percent.
The proposed plan would limit the 
number of students eligible for a GSL, 
thereby cutting back on the monies the 
government must spend in subsidizing the 
loans. The plan, which has already been 
adopted by the House Education and Labor 
Committee on September 19, proposes many 
changes to the current GSL program.
According to the Congressional Budget 
Office, these changes will affect about 
650,000 students who currently receive 
GSLs. Of these, at least 460,000 will be in
eligible for a GSL and the remaining will 
have reductions in their loans if Congress 
adopts the House measure.
The Senate Subcommittee on Education,
Arts, and Humanities approved a similar 
version of the legislation but omitted the 
House measure requiring all students 
undergo a needs test. Currently students 
whose family income is under $30,000 a year 
are automatically eligible for a GSL of some 
amount, while families with incomes over 
that amount are required to show financial 
need.
One of the major reasons for the decision 
to cut financial aid is concern with students 
defaulting on loans and other abuses within 
the program. According to Secretary of 
Education William J. Bennett, the default 
(those students who cannot or do not pay 
back their loans) total is three times what 
the budget proposal is. The national default 
rate on the loans is 10.9 percent... it is fun
ny to see the numbers of students who are 
in financial need who have stereos, and cars 
on campus, and who take three weeks-atthe-beach vacations. Many people have 
acted enraged and shocked at these 
statements, but nonetheless, theyre true. 
With these kind of statistics, something must 
be done about this.
About 13,000 students who receive 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Why Play Games for Points 
When You Can Play for CASH!
A New Concept In Computer Games!
CODEBUSTERS, INC. is revolution
izing the computer game industry, we 
are offering $110,000 in total prize 
money to the winners of our contest All 
you have to do is break the codes, find 
the clues, solve the mystery, and collect 
the cash. Its more than a cryptogram, 
more than a word scramble, its a unique 
and challenging way to test your intellect 
Only the first 16 correct answers will
win for each of the first three qualifying 
rounds. Even if youre not a money 
winner but overcome the challenge for 
each of these three rounds, you will 
qualify to receive, (at no additional cost) 
the championship round and could win 
the grand prize of $50,000. So forget 
about scoring points with other games. 
Play CODEBUSTERS for CASH! 
Competition closes July 31, 1986.
$110,000 in Prize Money
Prizes will be offered for each of the three games in the 
"Trilogy' These prizes will be as follows:
GAME 1GAME 2GAME 3
(1) RRST PRIZE$10.000$10.000$10.000
(5) SECOND PRIZES1.0001.0001.000
(10) THIRD PRIZES500500500
S/Per Game$20.000$20.000$20.000* Prizes161616GRAND PRIZE $50,000.00
<;<miytusTEUS
Send name, address, and $39.95 for one game or S99.9S for all three games toe
CODEBUSTERS, INC.P.O. Box 6329 Alentown. PA 16001 
Or call (215)666-4334
Allow 6-8 weeks far deBvery 
PA resideab iacMt 6% sale* lax 
VOID WHERE REGULATED/ 
PROHIBITED BY LAW
Name.? VISA ? MASTERCARD 
Credit Card #_____/_____/_
Expiration Date.
Vi
A How M week for Mbtfjr. PA mMna iaetat % tales tax. 
VOID WHERE REGULATED/PROHIBITED BY LAW
? Cheek Payable to: CODEBUSTERS. INC
? IBM Vertioa ? APPLE II Version
? S39.9S Each Round
? $99.95 for TRILOGY
Precision Haircuts custom designed for the look you want
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
Great Styles Startat... Se
APPOINTMENT
NECESSARYl@fttCATesiPCCTflmnsPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY
$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
COLOR
r i i 
i i 
i iI onur mptmI November 30
MUST'BRING COUPON | SAVE $2.00 I
PflfiCiStONHAIRCUT |
CoflvsM*w*)tf>amno ttytngJSSBi
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES
$25.00
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
UNISEX HAIR SALON
687-3500 
No Appointments
SPRING SEMESTER ADVANCE REGISTRATION
Advance Registration for the Spring 1986 Semester will be on Wednesday and Thursday, November 13 and 14, 
1985. All students, undergraduate and graduate, are expected to register on these days if they wish to enroll at 
CMU this spring, except for CIT/MCS freshmen, who have received separate instructions. If you wont be return
ing for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal Form, clearly marked Spring 1986 , with your 
department. If you are unable to register November 13 or 14 (i.e. youre studying off-campus), ask your advisor 
to process your registration, or call the Registrars Office for special instructions.
The Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1986 will be available tomorrow, November 6. at the Skibo informa
tion Desk and inside Baker Halls main entrance. The schedule contains next semesters course offerings, in
structors. times, and rooms, as well as complete registration and enrollment information. Please obtain a copy, 
and carefully read and follow its instructions.
A single registration form, the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D), will be used for registration. 
Your F13D is available in your department office (in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center at BH 161 for H&SS 
freshmen and sophomores) and should be used to update demographic information and to list your Spring 
Semester schedule for advisor approval.
***** Advance Registration Instructions *****
1. Pickup your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
2. Pickup a Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1986, starting tomorrow, at the Skibo Information Desk or in
side Baker Halls main entrance.
3. Plan a schedule with alternatives, and meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. You cannot register 
until you have received advisor approval. Many advisors will extend office hours next week, but contact yours for 
specific approval information.
4. On Wednesday and Thursday. November 13 and 14. between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., go to each department 
teaching a course(s) you wish to register for to obtain registration approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D to your department by December 13. Even if you dont get all ap
provals, turn your R3D in anyway; you can try to add an unapproved course in January. *
If you need further information or assistance, contact your department or the Registrar's Office, 578-2004.
NOVEMBER 13 and 14

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 7
Pros and cons of GSL program
continued from page 5
federally subsidized GSLs come from 
families with annual adjusted incomes of 
$100,000 or more, Bennett told the House 
Education and Labor Committee.
This claim, however, drew sharp criticism 
from committee Democrats who charged 
that Bennett was using an extreme exam
ple to destroy the loan program which is ex
pected to aid about 3.4 million students this 
year. President Robert Atwell of the 
American Council of Education (ACE), 
which participated in the survey, called his 
statement a misrepresentation of data, ad
ding, our own best estimate...is that there 
is no significant number and if there was, 
that it could be no more than 100-200 such 
cases in the country, and those due to [uni
que] family circumstances.
Federal student aid is based on taxable in
come after deductions. CMU Financial Aid 
director Walter Cathie said he knows of one 
lawyer who makes in excess of $100,000 per 
year. The lawyers child, a CMU student, 
gets a federal tuition grant intended for the 
needy. The lawyer cuts his taxable income 
to near zero through devices such as 
depreciation on Florida condominiums. 
Other students claim falsely to be financially 
independent of their parents to qualify for 
grants.
Chester G. Atkins, member of the House 
Post-Secondary Education committee agreed 
that there are problems with the system. 
However, in response to Bennetts charge 
that the proposed programs might cause 
some students receiving federal aid to divest 
themselves of cars, stereos, and three week 
beach vacations, Atkins stated that these 
proposals would instead lead to a divestiture
of hope, a divestiture of equality, and a 
divestiture of opportunity for our youth and 
the future of this country.
Bennett said the proposed changes will 
aim aid at the neediest. Many students on 
campus will disagree. Nancy Ott, a junior 
double majoring in Mechanical Engineer
ing and Engineering and Public Policy, 
would have an extremely difficult time at
tending CMU this year if it were not for her
GSLs: Aimed at the neediest, ha! Why dont 
they eliminate some of the waste in the 
military instead of sacrificing the education 
of the youth who are our future. Ott add
ed, Most of us here want to contribute 
something to society and to do that, we need 
good educations which arent cheap. 
Bennett stated, If were going to get these 
budget deficits down, everybodys going to 
have to make some sacrifices.
However, over 60 per cent of the $947 
billion federal budget will be exempt, said 
Susan Frost, executive director of the Com
mittee for Education Funding, so that 
education and other programs that were not
protected would probably have to be reduc
ed by a disproportionate amount. Certain 
expenditures such as Social Security, interest 
on the national debt, and other uncon
trollable expenditures would be exempt. 
GSLs would fall under the category of con
trollable expenditures and would be sub
ject to reduction.
It is feared that this portion of the Budget 
Reconciliation Act could eventually destroy
the entire Guaranteed Student Loan pro
gram. Robert Stafford, chairman of the 
Senate Subcommittee on Education, Arts, 
and Humanities, and William D. Ford, 
chairman of the House Subcommittee on 
Post secondary Education, said recently that 
unless this provision defining the 
Guaranteed Student Loan program as a 
controllable expense is excluded from the 
Gramm-Rudman Senate amendment, 
lenders and guarantee agencies will pull out 
of the program.
President Reagan, in defense of his fiscal 
plans stated Every qualified student who 
wants to go to college will still be able to do
examined
so.
Tina Cacolice, a sophomore Mathematics 
major at CMU commented, I wouldnt be 
using my talents and potentials to their 
fullest by attending a less prestigious and less 
demanding university. Students come to 
CMU because it offers a fantastic education, 
and great job potentials, not because they 
are excessively wealthy.
A number of the proposals, such as multi
ple disbursement and increased due dilligency, are very desirable ones which will not af
fect the eligibility of any student and should 
reduce fraud and abuse and produce a sav
ings in the program,said CMU assistant 
director of Financial Aid Paul Smith. He 
added that if there are cuts in the students 
receiving GSL aid, which CMU does not 
necessarily approve of, this university will do 
its best to continue to help its students.
In an effort to offset problems the propos
ed revisions might cause, CMU has been 
working with the Pennsylvania Higher 
Education Assistance Agency to implement 
a new program called the Higher Education 
Loan Plan (HELP). This program, which 
allows parents to borrow up to $10,000 per 
academic year at 9.5 percent interest, is 
designed to meet the needs of all students 
and their families, regardless of financial 
need or place of residence.
CMU is also working toward increasing 
the employment opportunities for students 
both on and off campus.
Cathie feels that students should not be 
turned off from seeking admittance or at
tending CMU if these cuts go through. 
CMUs basic policy, he said, has been one 
of admittance based on academic merit. 
Financial problems are dealt with thereafter.
it is funny to see the numbers of students who are in 
'financial need who have stereos, and cars on campus, and 
who take three-weeks-at-the-beach vacations/*
Secretary of Education 
William J. Bennett
A Phi O
Shuttlebus
to the
Airport
November 27 
Departing:
MOREWOOD 
11:45 AM 
i 1:45 PM 
3:45 
5:45
DONNER 12:00 (noon) 
2:00
4:00
6:00
ONLY $4.00 (cheap!)
Sign up at Skibo Information Desk 
Limited Seating Available
Another A Phi 0 service
You'll be BLOWN AWAY when you see
CAPPVs
super discount AIRBRUSH department!!!
AIRBRUSH COLORS:^
Famous Brands AIRTEX. AIROPAQUE. OE*
CompressorsFamous Brands PAASCHE. BADGER. IWATA
ART LOFT
_s323 Blvd of the Allies. Pittsburgh 281-2133
Monday Fndjy 8 45io5 30 Wlurijy 9 JOlo 4 O
COMPUTER PROFESSIONALS 
FOR
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTTY
November meeting, Wednesday, November 13.1985 
7:30 PM. 5409 Wean Hail, CMU
videotape of the MFTCF'SR debate:
Star Wars:
Can the Computing Requirements be Met?
Panelists
Danny Cohan Director, Systems Division. University of Southern Cdilomia/lnformation Sciences Institute Chairman, SOI Panel on Computing
David L. Pamas lanedowne Prciaseor of Compeer Science. University of Victoria. Ex-member. SOI Panel on Computng
Charles L Seitz Prolessor of Compmer SctenoB. CaHornw msOuto ofTechnology. Member. SOI Panel on Compu*ng
Joseph Welzenbaum Prolessor of Computer Sconce, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Member. CPSR
Moderator
Michael L. Dert ouzos Prolessor and Director. M I T. Laboratory lor Computer Science
For information call 422-1523

---------------------------------------------------

Scotland Yard 
Grand Opening
November 15*16,
Live entertainment and a menu 
to satisfy night-time appetites.
7PM-2AM

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Skateboards: Fastest movers on campus
By CHRISTINE TELFER
Tartan Staffwriter
On warm sunny days theyre all over cam
pus. The guy sitting across the room carries 
his to class and props it up against his desk 
during lecture, while someone else flies past 
along the cement path that runs along the 
cut. Another practices tricks on one in the 
parking lot behind Baker Hall. This Fall, 
skateboards are invading CMUs campus.
I used to ride a skateboard myself, but it 
was much smaller and lower to the ground 
than most of the boards that are out now. 
It was also less expensive and probably didnt 
go as fast as these larger, sleeker looking 
models. When I was twelve it seemed fast 
enough though. I became pretty good at it, 
actuallyeven formed the habit of riding 
a skateboard almost everywhere I went and 
carrying it around with me once I got there. 
I loved it. I convinced my mother to let me 
stay out later at night, assuring her that I 
could protect myself from rapists and mug
gers by whacking them in the face with my 
wooden skateboard.
I think it might be fun to glide to class, 
but I doubt if Ill invest in another 
skateboard. (The old one is still in good con
dition but wouldnt be chic enough to ride 
around campus.) Maybe Im just afraid Id 
look ridiculous compared to some of these 
hot spots.
In black pants, a white sweatshirt, and a 
red bandanna tied babushka style around 
his head, Ro-ee Levi looked striking as he 
swooped into a turn outside of Warner Hall.
I managed to stop him and ask if he would 
tell me a little about skateboarding. He smil
ed, perhaps delighted that I wasnt asking 
for his opinion on abortion or the SEI, and 
spoke enthusiastically about the sport.
He told me he began skateboarding when 
he was twelve years old and living in Florida, 
where he had access to more skateboard 
parks and wide open spaces to skate in. Oh, 
skateboard parks theyre like rounded, 
emptied-out swimming poolsmade of con
crete and set into the ground. You skate 
down one side and momentum carries you 
up the opposite wall. Sometimes the walls 
about 25-30 of the 40 or so riders are CMU 
students.
It isnt as dangerous as it looks. He has 
never had a serious skateboarding injury. "In 
fact, it helped me out when I had my ankle 
in a cast. Id just rest my cast on the board 
and push off the ground with my other leg 
and my crutches. It saved a lot of time. He 
said he injured his ankle playing frisbee. I 
can only think of one person who got hurt 
while skateboarding. She was just beginn
ing to ride didnt know how to land. She 
broke her wrist because she stuck her hand 
out to break a fall. It takes concentration 
and coordination to be successful.
Some of the others I talked to had little 
to say other than that skateboarding was a 
faster way of getting to class. Many of them 
said theyd just started within the past few 
months. Its not that Im lazy; its just more 
fun this way, one added. I like things with 
wheels. Its a hang-up of mine, another 
explained.
But David Seifried declared that 
skateboarding was the biggest passion in his 
life. David, who has been skateboarding for 
ten years, says he tries to get three to four 
hours in every day. He doesnt skate just for 
fun, but seriously trains for skating as a com
petitive sport. It comes before everything, 
even homework. It shouldnt, but it does. 
He owns approximately $3000 worth of 
skateboarding equipment. This includes ten 
skateboards for five different purposes a 
duplicate set so that he can keep half of 
them at his home in Chicago, and the rest 
here at school  and a half-pipe constructed 
in his backyard.
His description of a half-pipe, a curved,
wooden or concrete swimming pool without 
water, sounded alot like Ro-ees description 
of a skateboard park. He must have been 
able to see that I was dying to actually see 
one of these things, because he invited me 
to watch him practice half-piping in a 
friends backyard in Wilkinsburg. He just 
happened to be on his way over there.
The half-pipe took up most of his friend 
Brians small backyard. Made of wood and 
covered with masonite, it reached about 
twelve feet high and fifteen feet wide. Ac
cording to David, there are only two others 
in the Pittsbugh area. A whole group of 
skateboard fanatics, mostly high school ag
ed boys, gathered in Brians yard to practice 
that afternoon. As I watched them, I felt a 
mixture of curiosity to try it out and fear.
I wasnt wearing tennis shoes; that was a 
good excuse not to.
David, who looked like the oldest, was also 
the most accomplished rider. He pulled off 
some fancy trickslike a hand plantwhile 
most of the others flopped when attempting 
them. To do a hand plant, the skater grabs 
onto the rim of one of the half-pipe walls 
and balances for a second, his whole body 
in the air, feet still clinging to the board up
side down, before landing perfectly and sail
ing back down the slope.
Other tricks which he didnt have time to 
show me have funny enough names to men
tion. Theres the Jolly Momba, the Ben
ny Hona, Madonna and the Gay Twist. 
Tossing the board up in the air and landing 
on it is a rabbit jump. To walk the 
skateboard by raising one leg and one pair 
of wheels at a time is called tic-tacking.
Its not an easy way to make a living, but 
there are people who skate professionally, 
David told me. They compete in skateboard 
contests and sell equipment. There are also 
two international skateboard magazines, 
Thrasher and Trans World, as well as an 
original Pittsburgh based magazine, Skate 
Threat. Its important to read the 
magazines if you want to keep up with the 
sport, he says. Its not visible like football 
which you can watch on T.V.
Pittsbugh isnt as advanced in skateboar
ding as Chicago, L.A., or some of the big 
European cities are, according to David. 
"The hills are a plus for skatingbut you 
make the same trade-off as with bikes the 
climb back up is never as much fun as the 
ride down.
I can see why so many CMU students are 
riding skateboards. With such heavy work 
loads, many students dont have much time 
for exercise. Skateboarding helps them keep 
up with the fast pace of the University 
without missing out on a little exercise and 
fun.
are as high as 50 feet. The higher up you 
start, the faster you go and the further up 
the other side. You just keep going back and 
forth until you lose speed or quit... Its a lot 
faster than street skating but not more 
dangerous. In parks you wear a helmet, knee 
pads, and elbow pads. You also dont have 
to worry about cars and surface obstructions 
like rocks and pot holes getting in your way. 
Theyre (surface obstructions) the cause of 
most accidents.
After moving to New York, he rode less, 
but found the skill quite useful one summer 
when he had a delivery job in Manhattan. 
Skateboards stop time. By this he meant 
both that skateboards get you where youre 
going ten times faster, and that they allow 
you to forget that youre in a hurry.
At CMU, he always rides to class, he says. 
There are a lot of good places to skate 
around here. I like coming down the hill 
toward Margaret Morrison thats a nice 
ride. I do a little grass skating over by the 
tennis courts. And the handicap slopes by 
Doherty and Science Hall theyre perfect 
for skating. His only complaint about the
campus terrain is that the cracks in the pave
ment are too wide. I asked him about the 
condition of the roads in Pittsburgh; he said 
that they were no worse here than in New 
York City. His impression of Pittsburghs 
roads, however, is based mainly on Forbes 
Avenue, which has recently been repaved.
He put together the wood and epoxy-glass 
skateboard he now owns at a cost of about 
$150. The grip a black, sandpapery sur
face that helps keep his feet stuck to the 
board is fixed in the pattern of a Hebrew
Warner Center, a new dining and shopp
ing complex, will have its grand opening 
November 26 on the former site of the 
Warner Theater located on Fifth Avenue in 
downtown Pittsburgh.
A gala benefit is planned for Friday even
ing, November 22, featuring a gourmet 
preview dinner at the elegant Warner 
Premiere restaurant within the complex. 
Proceeds from the November 22 benefit will 
be donated to the Civic Light Opera 
Association and the Variety Club Tent #1. 
Tickets to the benefit are $100 per person; 
further ticket information is available by 
calling 281-9000.
Warner Center will retain much of the 
original grandeur of the majestic theater, 
which opened in 1871 as the Pittsburgh 
Opera House. Chandeliers, marble and 
painted murals once seen in the old movie 
house will be showcased in the new complex.
Warner Center exudes the glamorous am
bience of the classic Golden Age of 
Hollywood. In fact, Warner Center will 
feature one of the worlds largest private col
lections of movie memorabilia, thus creating 
a living museum of cinema arts. The 
memorabilia collection will be located in the 
Warner Premiere, an elegant restaurant 
featuring fine dining.
Elizabeth Heim, who acquired much of 
this vintage collection through an auction 
at Sothebys, is the owner of several womens 
fashion stores: Elizabeths of Shadyside, the 
Added Touch in Squirrel Hill and a second 
Elizabeths boutique to open in Warner 
Center. Some of the costumes in the 
memorabilia collection have adorned such 
cinematic legends as Charlie Chaplin, Judy 
Garland, Clark Gable, and Katherine 
Hepburn.
The restaurants to be featured in Warner
design. He made it just before taking a trip 
to Israel, he explained.
He agrees that the sports populartity on 
campus has been growing. It just got big 
last spring. This fall it got even bigger. I 
know at least three people who bought 
boards in the past two weeks. The place to 
buy them is Shadyskates, the only local 
skateboard shop, on Shady Avenue in Squir
rel Hill. Some of the people you see riding 
around campus are just little kids that live - 
around here, he acknowledges, still, Id say
Center reflect the diverse nature of 
Hollywood itself. Hollywood & Dine, a 
specialty food gallery, will include informal 
fare at Grand Burgers and Warner 
Wieners, a raw bar at the Warner Balcony 
and as the name suggests, pasta at Pasta al 
Dente.
Pittsburgh Millies Grand Opera House 
is a sophisticated, tum-of-the-century-style 
saloon which will feature live entertainment. 
The restaurants name is derived from that 
of the original Warner Theater which was 
once called the Grand Opera House. This 
relaxed, good time saloon will provide the 
added attraction of live entertainment in the 
form of talented local performers chosen to 
be Pittsburgh Millie. The character is bas
ed on a combination of such effervescent, 
boisterous personalities as Ethel Merman, 
Sophie Tucker and Pearl Bailey.
For those who prefer more formal dining, 
Warner Center will present Warner 
Premiere, a complex of restaurants featur
ing fine dining. The Warner Premiere is 
made up of Warner Premiere restaurant, 
starring a menu for elegant dining; and for 
lighter fare, the Warner Premiere Cafe, of
fering salads, sandwiches and other light 
meals.
All of these appetizing establishments will 
be operated by Warner Foods, a newly 
founded, Pittsburgh-based corporation. Mr.
B. Al Mandaro, president of Wamer Foods, 
is an experienced restauranteur. Mr. Man
daro has managed restaurants in Lincoln 
Center and at Kennedy Center, the El 
Morocco Supper Club in New York City and 
the City Tavern in Philadelphia. As well as 
receiving international acclaim, Mr. Man
daro has recently been awarded the 1985 
IVY award, the Oscar of the restaurant incontinued on pag 1 S
Warner Center

---------------------------------------------------

Campus Discount Nites
Tuesday & Wednesday
November 12&13 
Noon to 9 p.m.
Precision StylecutOnly $10
Terrific campus stylecuts at super savings with student I.D. Free gifts & refreshments.
TOUR FATHERS MUSTACHE
Six Pittsburgh Locations:
Allegheny Center Mall 322-1177
Century III Mall 653-7990
Monroeville Mall 372-5803
Oakland 681-0300
South Hills Village 833-3677
Norwin Hills Shopping Center 864-5050
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
!!!!!!! Great Deal !!!!!!! 
Excel with an XL*
?Well almost, it's 1 mb Lisa with a 5mb Profile Hard Disk.
Macintosh XL*......$1800.00
Also included - FREE:
1 megabyte of RAM memory 
5 megabyte Hard Disk 
MacWorks 
MacWrite/MacPaint 
Microsoft Excel
While Supplies Last!
Wed. Nov 20 8 pm 
Ski bo Ballroom
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 11
Long distance relationships and AT&T
By LISA McANANY 
Tartan Staffwriter
Whats todays date? The fifteenth? Oh 
God! Say it isnt so. Ive got an exam tonight * 
and two papers due by the end of the 
weekI just cant deal with the phone bill 
on top of it all!
Ah yes . . . the phone bill. AT&Ts friend
ly calling card which makes your tuition bill 
look small, your student loan seem insignifi
cant . . . this is the part of the college ex
perience that they really didnt warn you 
about in those comforting, encouraging, 
rose-tinted brochures about your college 
career.
But why is the phone bill really so high? 
You only called your grandmother once, 
your parents let you call collect ... So be 
honest. Could it be a long-distance rela
tionship? Could you have incurred this enor
mous amount of debt because your 
sweetheart just had to go to school at the 
American University of Cairo or Washington 
State? Yes truly, the long-distance relation
ship (subsequently referred to as the L-DR)
is a unique and somewhat colorful part of 
college life.
On account of the drawbacks of the LDR, many students opt for the on-campus 
relationship (subsequently referred to as the 
O-CR). This arrangement looks con
siderably more desirable at first glance, 
because it seems to afford the ability to see 
your chosen whenever you so desire, pro
viding necessary respite from the pressures 
and pains of school. But is the O-CR as ideal 
as it may initially appear? As Helene, an 
H&SS sophomore points out, God its hard 
to find the time. People in different depart
ments may have very different schedules, 
and you end up having to constantly arrange 
for time together. In most cases, the relation
ship is confined to weekends anyway. So the 
obstacles which O CRs present may also be
difficult to overcome.
And if the only thing that L-DRs are good 
for is running up embarrassingly high phone 
bills, why do students still pursue this strange 
beast? Well, despite some obvious disadvan
tages like the phone bill and the fact that 
the people in question see one another quite 
infrequently, there are relative advantages 
to maintaining an intermural or interstate 
relationship. Among these advantages is the 
fact that though AT&T would like you to 
believe that you spend your life on the phone 
and thats why you owe them so much 
money, an L-DR may demand considerably 
less time than a relationship when both par
ties are present and accounted for. A cou
ple of letters per week and a phone call or 
two is a relatively small demand on study
time. As Diana, an H&SS senior says of her 
L-DR, If he were here, chances are I would 
either resent school for getting in the way 
of our relationship, or I would resent him 
for getting in the way of school.
And as hokey as it sounds, there may be 
something to be said for the old proverb 
about absence making the heart grow 
fonder. When someone is 8,000 miles away, 
it is easy to forget about his annoying habit 
of telling you the end of movies or fishing 
the green things out of minestrone soup. 
And while these little faults may come back 
to you in full color, once you meet again, 
chances are you are so overjoyed just to be 
able to talk on the phone within the same 
area code again, that the faults are over
shadowed or overlooked completely.
Obviously, everyone must decide for 
himself what the best type of relationship 
is. The O-CR allows a certain consistency in 
the relationship and the participants will un
doubtedly see more of one another than they 
would in an L-DR. At the same time, the 
relationship may place strenuous demands 
on time necessary for schoolwork. While the 
L-DR provides ample time for studying, it 
may mean signing-over ones first bom to 
AT&T All of these factors will require some 
consideration sooner or later. But in general, 
it seems that at C-MU, both L-DRs and OCRs are A-OK, AT&T aside.
New Course
Women's History
By HEATHER NEWTON
Tartan Staffwriter
Recently The Tartan ran an article by 
Karen Gray, complaining about the 
maleness of CMU and, more specifically, 
the lack of womens study courses here.
Well get out your 5-d forms, everybody. 
The history department is about to make 
one small step for womankind.
Next semester Dr. Anne Rose will teach 
a course on Women in American History, 
a look at how women have contributed to 
the development of our nation.
The main focus of the course will be on 
the lives of ordinary women, their work and 
family lives, says Rose. Then well look at 
the lives of some exceptional women, such 
as Elizabeth Kady Stanton and Sojourer 
Truth, to see how they fit into the context 
weve established, and to see what their lives 
meant as examples to the ordinary women 
of their times.
Rose says shes glad to see renewed interest 
in womens history, which seemed to decline 
with the winding down of the womens move
ment itself.
I want students to walk away from the 
course with some appreciation of how 
women have contributed to history 
something historians have traditionally ig
nored, she says. The impression people get 
is that women were practically invisible, but 
of course thats ridiculous. After all, can you 
imagine a world without women?
Women in American History is a 9 unit 
class and will meet MWF at 10:30. Register 
for it by signing up in the History Depart
ment on November 13 or 14.
Uni tad Why
PREGNANT?
And you didn 't mean to be? For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
\ 107 8-
Fwtonsi *85THE COMFORTABLE JAPANESE COUCH OR BED. 661-6499 CARLISLE MATTRESS FACTORY OUTLET_
UJomens^V HealthServices
LA
he
Gyn Check-UpsAbortion Services
Free Pregnancy Tests
 Confidential
Counseling
107 8th St.  Downtown Pjh.y
Exciting and Challenging Career Opportunities
Master of Business Administration
A small, highly selective MBA program has 
been designed by The Ohio State University 
to provide professional management 
education to students with nonbusiness 
academic backgrounds. This two-year full-time 
program
 facilitates a high level of student and
faculty-student interaction
 has no prerequisite course work
 is especially attractive to students with
liberal arts, scientific, and other 
nonbusiness backgrounds
 is built upon a tightly integrated study of
foundation management tools and 
concepts
 offers the opportunity to concentrate in one
or two management fields through 
elective course work
 is offered by one of the top 25 schools of
management in the country and is 
accredited by the American Assembly of 
Collegiate Schools of Business
Last year's graduates were very successful in 
finding career opportunities. Examples of 
positions they selected include the following:
 assistant to the chief executive officer.
Midland Mutual Life
 field marketing manager. Ford Motor
Company
 management trainee with an
international assignment. Chase 
Manhattan Bank
 assistant product manager. Pillsbury
 financial analyst, Hewlett Packard
 inventory control manager, IBM Corporation
 account executive, Merrill Lynch
 consultant. Price Waterhouse
 management trainee with an international
assignment, Procter and Gamble 
For a brochure describing this program and 
application information, please 
contact:
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399 
614-422-8511
The Ohio State University

---------------------------------------------------

One of the hardest things 
about college is learning how 
to pay for ft!!
May we help you?
Dollar Bank knows that paying for an education can be an education in itself. Thats why we offer a number of low-cost loans designed with your borrowing requirements in mind. If you think youll need money for the winter term, nows the time to look into one of these Dollar Bank loans.
Low 8% PHEAA Loans  This guaranteed student loan helps cover the cost of any approved college, trade or vocational school, giving undergraduate student applicants up to $2,500 per academic year and graduate student applicants up to $5,000. Repayment doesnt begin until six months after leaving school, and you have up to ten years to repay. But your family income affects eligibility. So other financing may be required.
Low 12% PLUS Loans  Government-backed Parent Loans to Undergraduate Students give parents, as well as independent undergraduates and graduate students, up to $3,000 a year as a supplement to or replacement for a PHEAA loan. There are no income restrictions and you have up to five years to repay your PLUS loan.
Low 11.25%* Home Equity Loans For maximum student loan help, your parents can consider the loan that puts their homes equity to work putting you through college. A Dollar Bank Home Equity Loan. It has all the advantages of a variable rate and you dont have to worry about maximum loan amounts. If your parents income is too high to qualify for other assistance, this is the loan to consider.
Heres a convenient way to apply. PLUS Loan and Home Equity Loan applicants must meetSimply complete this label and return Dollar Bank's credit criteria,it to: Dollar Bank, Marketing            
Department, 535 Smithfield St., %Pittsburgh, PA 15222. Well send you I Name:----------------------------------------------- Severything you need to make paying I A.. for college just a little bit easier. ! Address:
5 City:______________State:_____Zip:_____ S
i______________________________________i
* Example: 11.25% initial rate, 11.52% APR. APR car increase. Based on a $25,000 line approved September 1, 1985 and hdi'by a deposit relationship with Dollar Bank.
CALL 412/261-8462.
Dollar Bank
Member FSLIC
A Federal Savings Bank
Equal Opportunity Lender

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 13
Putting on Pounds? There may still be hope
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Contributing Editor
How many of you out there are 
overweight? Cmon confess. Not in shape? 
Feeling sluggish and pudgy?
Now, I dont mean those people who claim 
they absolutely must lose five or
li ten pounds just to fit into their
| Gucci skirt. It makes me ill. My
 right thigh weighs more than
they do.
No, I mean those of us who are truly 
overweight, who shop for clothes by finding 
the largest size available and hoping that 
something fits. Well, this isnt something you 
have to live with the rest of your life.
There are no miracle cures or absolutes 
to weight loss. The only tried and true 
method is to change your eating habits and 
slowly lose that excess weight, a few pounds 
a week. Of course, it sounds simple enough 
to change your eating patterns. Its not.
If you give serious thought to losing 
weight, it has to begin in the mind. You have 
to envision yourself as thinnerand better 
looking. This may sound crazy to you, but 
what youre doing is setting a goal for 
yourselfhow you want to look. This beats 
saying, I need to lose 30 pounds in three 
weeks. If you want that kind of weight loss, 
cut off a leg. If you want a more permanent 
solution, start with the mind.
Dont go overboard, though. Your selfimage has to change as you do. If youve 
always seen yourself as fat, you might always 
think you are, even if you do lose weight. Set 
an image in your mind. Get comfortable 
with it. When you attain that goal, set 
another one. The process is gradual. The 
results can be stunning.
One way to help you along the way is ex
ercise. Dont groan. I dont just mean doing 
push-ups, sit-ups, etc. There are some fun 
ways to lose weight.
Walk. If you have an hour to devour a piz
za, why not walk instead? The weather 
might not be great, but its not hot out. That 
way, you dont sweat. For us big people, thats 
a blessing.
Swim. This is one of the best exercises 
around. So you dont look great in a swim
suit; who cares? The pool isnt a place for 
a fashion show. Besides, the pool in Thistle 
Hall (the gym) is also great for just splashing 
around with friends.
Aerobics. I think this is the best way to 
shed fat. Theres good music, good exercises, 
and some good looking people. This 
shouldnt be intimidating, rather an incen
we carry compute line of products;
NEXXUS  TCI * 
SEBASTIAN* 
REDJCENT * MON.-rci. 9n>9
natvo osdw Hre C
81S S. Aiken Ave. * Shadyside 
Ml' 4063 -
VH OUR. COUPON SAVE!
Lewis coupon
$ 1,00 OFF PURCHASE 
OF $ S00 OB MORE
Expires 12/51/05 B
tive. So you cant keep up, so you cant do 
them all. So what? Do your best and stick 
with it. Youll sweat a lot but also bum off 
that spare tire. Aerobics is what got me 
hooked on exercising. See if you dont find 
it fun.
Working Out. Or pumping iron as my 
nephew calls it. This, for me, tones you up 
and firms the loose flesh left over from 
weight loss (if you have a lot to lose). 
Whether it be Nautilus or Universal 
machines or even free weights, muscle makes 
you look and feel good. Not, of course, to 
the point where your biceps measurement 
is larger than your IQ and you become 
conceited  thats disgusting. But toning the 
body helps to achieve your goal.
Now where on earth do you do these 
things? Well, walking and swimming are 
easy. Aerobics is more difficult. I dont think 
any free courses are offered on campus, but 
I could be wrong. The dramats may have 
one. If there isnt any, there should be. 
Usually, Aerobics can be found at any health 
spa in the area. Which brings me to work
ing out. This takes some money and a lot 
of dedication. Spas can be found in 
Shadyside, Downtown, or even closer than 
that. We have a weight room in the gym and 
at last notice, the Caber Club located in the 
Margaret Morrison store fronts. So places do 
exist close by to exercise.
It helps if a friend or two joins you in the 
fun. And you dont have to be overweight 
to need exercise. Getting firm and fit is 
something we all need to do.
Lastly, you might be wondering how I can 
write all this; what experience do I have. Ill 
tell you. I was fat from the age of 9. I was 
always told I was husky or big-boned. 
Horse puckey. I was fat! And I only got 
worse.
It wasnt until I turned 22 that I finally 
realized I had to do something. This was 
something I had to do for me and no one 
else. So with the scale tipping over 220 
pounds and a waist of 40 inches, I decided 
to finally do it. That was February of this 
year. As of August, I weighed a little less 
than 170 pounds. My waist is now a 33.
And you know, the benefits are numerous. 
I have the greatest selection of clothes, I 
dont sweat climbing a flight of stairs, I dont
pass out trying to tie my shoes, I can actually 
see my waistline, I can tuck my shirts into 
my pants without me hanging over, and I 
dont feel like a blob anymore. But the best
part of all is the complementswhen some 
one who knew me before says how great 1 
look now. The struggle was more than wort! 
it.
TRAM WI1H THE NUCLEAR INDUSTRYS 
LEADER, AND YOU COUID END UP 
LEADING IHi INDUSTRY.
Over half the nuclear reactors in America are operated by one organization. The Na\ v.The technology is the most advanced in tne world. The men in charge are the industrys best, fiat's w hy the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidacy program ts the most sophisticated training available.It has to be.College juniors and seniors who qualifv lor the program can earn SI .000 a month while still in school. In addition, you get a S3.000 bonus upon entrance into the program, an additional S3.000 when you complete your Naval studiesAnd. as an officer in todays Nuclear Navy.you receive a year ol paid graduate-level traininggaining the experience and credentials that can put you at tfi: lorefront of the nuclear industrvYou must be a L.S. citizen. 26*/2 years of age or younger upon commissioning, working toward a bachelors or masters degree. You must also have completed a minimum of one year each of calculus and calculus-based physics with a Baverage or better.So if youve started thinking about a career in the nuclear field, think about starting at the top. You can apply after vour sophomore year. Call Navy Management Programs for more information: 4(2/644-6435.
Representative on campus December 4.
In PA call toll-free 1-800-242-6289. In OH, WV. and MO call toM-free 1-800-245-1772.
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESP0NSBUTY MSI
GROUP COUPE
Take the gang in style. You 
can rent a car if you're 18 
or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current 
student I.D. and a cash 
deposit. Stop by and fill out a 
short cash qualification form
1 Weekend rate available noon Thursday through Monday. Cer tain daily minimums apply. Rates will be slightly lower for drivers over 25.
at least 24-hours in advance. 
You pay for gas used and 
return car to renting loca
tion. We also accept most 
major credit cards.
We feature GM cars 
hke this Chevrolet Chevette
Non-discountablt rate applies to this or similar 
stze car ami is subject to change without notice 
Specific cars subject to availability 
Call for details
JBT National Car Rental.
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444 
3950 Wm. Penn Highway (Monroeville) 372-1667

---------------------------------------------------

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES IS LOOKING FOR ANOTHER BUNSEN.
When Robert Wilhelm Bunsen needed some
thing in the lab that didnt exist, he sat down 
and invented it. His burner. His battery. His 
calorimeters. A spectroscope. A thermopile.
United Technologies needs people like that. 
People who dont give up when they need some
thing no one's invented yet.
When we find the people we want, we see 
that they get their challenges. And their re
wards. We know what they want because were 
engineers too. Were a corporation of engineers 
all the way to the top.
United Technologies gives you worldwide 
room to grow. Something new is happening all 
the time, in helicopters or silicon wafers, heat 
pumps or spacesuits. Even our escalators are 
escalating. Its the kind of excitement you need, 
among people who speak your language.
Maybe youd better look into United Technol
ogies. Youve got nothing to lose, and think 
what youve got to gain. Stop by the campus 
placement office, or write for more information 
and a reprint of this ad. United Technologies, 
P.O. Box 1379, Hartford, CT 06143.
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
United Technologies means 
Pratt &. Whitney, Hamilton 
Standard, Otis, Carrier, 
Automotive Group, United 
Technologies Microelectronics 
Center, Norden, Chemical 
Systems, Essex, Sikorsky 
and United Technologies ^ 
Research Center.
An equal opportunity 
employer.

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 15
photo by Jack Poller
SEND TODAY FOR OUR CATALOG!
Name _ 
Address 
City____
fpctSYRACUSE (JNiVER 119 Euchd Ave
Study Abroad Through Syracuse University.
easily accessible bv bus from CWV
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland Musi*-rCard \isa </< , rt>t<( all <// >/x ntunu ni682-0616
Study in one of SCIs 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France. Italy, Spain, and other locations. Grants are 
available for a ^mester, a year, or a summer of study abroad.
Students enjoy Scotland Yard balloons in Discrete Math class
Scotland Yard Grand Opening Celebration
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
A years worth of preparation has gone in
to CMUs first campus pub, Scotland Yard. 
The grand opening celebration is being held 
on November 15th and 16th in the former 
Highlander room; food, drink, and enter
tainment by the CMU jazz choir will be 
provided.
The pub will be open every Thursday, Fri
day, and Saturday nights from 7:00 p.m. to 
2:00 a.m. featuring late night snacks and 
live entertainment. However, the word pub 
is a little deceiving when referring to 
Scotland Yard, because the pub is missing 
an essential ingredienta liquor license. 
Although the pub will be serving an assort
ment of fancy, non-alcoholic drinks that 
are pretty to look at, not many pubs have 
gotten away without serving booze and still 
retaining their status as pubs. Perhaps 
Scotland Yard should be better billed as a 
nightclub, cafe, or eatery, so no 
one gets confused.
The drinks offered include: frozen 
smoothie yogurt drinks, non-alcoholic daquiris and coladas, flavored seltzers, fruit 
juice spriters, on assortment of flavored teas, 
coffee, espresso, and hot cider.
The food menu includes: nachos, open 
faced sandwiches, fresh cut vegetables with 
dip, and assorted cheese trays that come with 
a loaf (French bread and fresh fruit. There 
will also be a number of desert items by 
choose from, such as cheesecake, triple-layer 
chocolate cake, and apple strudel.
The food menu is in no way affiliated with 
the University Dining Service in that it is 
ordered outside UDS, prepared, and served 
by Scotland Yards own staff.
As you know, our campus 
lacks a place where students, 
faculty members, and ad
ministrators can relax, talk, 
or simply forget about the 
pressures of life and school. 
The idea of Scotland Yard 
was born from the need for 
a central gathering point ex
clusively for the CMU com
munity. Such a place will 
allow us to begin breaking 
down many of the barriers 
that exist on our campus to
day among colleges, classes, 
and majors, as well as cam
pus organizations, clubs, and 
greeks. The lards aim is to 
establish a forum where the 
entire campus can display 
and appreciate its many 
talents.
Scotland Yard.
The entertainment, selected by auditions, 
will come primarily from student 
performerssingers, dancers, comedians, 
actors, musicans and bands to name a few. 
Entertainment will include one-act plays,
jazz and pop music, literary readings, and 
stand up comedy. In the future, The Yard 
will host student art shows and other special 
events provided by campus organzations and 
individual talent, including professional per
formers from outside CMU; Scotland Yard 
will hold auditions throughout the year. The 
Yard also has an excellent high-tech sound 
system for music and the latest wide screen 
TV with a VCR to show rock videos and 
movies when there is no live entertainment 
planned.
Cliff Sharpies, president of the Scotland 
Yard Committee, says that everyone is really 
psyched for Scotland Yards opening. In fact, 
he encourages student suggestions and com
ments. Together we can make CamegieMellon more unified. Scotland Yard is one 
way to make progress toward this end. Par
ticipation is essential to the success of The 
Yard. As nothing like Scotland Yard hits ever 
been realized, experimentation is necessary. 
With your enthusiasm and support, The 
Yard will develop an atmosphere of per
sonality and tradition capturing the full 
flavor of Carnegie-Mellon.
Warner Center 
Shopping Center 
Dining Center
continued from page 9
dustry, from Restaurants & Institutions 
magazine.
Also spotlighted at the Warner Center will 
be a variety of shops, ranging from 
Elizabeths boutique for womens fashions, to 
Waldenbooks. With its potpourri of shops, 
movie memorabilia and dining alternatives, 
Warner Center is designed to satisfy the most 
discriminating of tastes.
On November 26, grand opening day at 
Warner Center, the public will experience 
the magic and glamour of Hollywoods 
Golden Age in Pittsburghs newest dining 
and shopping complex.
Dr. Richard J. Hoffman 
Orthodontist
461-0259
683-1210
Special Consideration 
Suite 552 
Medical Arts Building 
5th and Atwood 
Oakland
DEBRA ABELL m.d. dermatologist
 student discount available

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS
PRESENTS
An Evening with Windham Hill
Mschoe; Hedges ^eMcwshafe OfXJ OoioiA^gef l-?tfv
presenting
Michael Hedges 
Darol Anger 
Mike Marshall 
and 
Liz Story
Thursday, November 14, 7:30 p.m. 
Carnegie Music Hall 
$5.00 for students with valid CMU ID 
Tickets on sale at Skibo Information Desk

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Drama Department stages successful plays
CMU Drama offered two provocative and 
instructive shows this week. In the Studio 
Theatre, Master Harold and the Boys by 
Athol Fugard, and on the Kresge mainstage, 
Tales from the Vienna Woods by Oden von 
Horvath. The productions show different 
facets of the Directors art. The classic ques
tion in directing is what is the raison detre? 
To reproduce the play exactly, duplicating 
the authors intentions, or to place ones own 
interpretation and ideas on the text, and 
thereby expand on its significance? Both 
points of view are valid, and a matter of in
dividual taste.
In the Kresge production of Tlesfrom the 
Vienna Woods, we saw risks taken in the 
presentation of a difficult, challenging piece. 
Jorge Guerra used stunning images, peculiar 
anachronisms, bold acting choices, idiosync
ratic costumes, and some textual distortions 
to evoke the atmosphere of 1930s Vienna.
Some of the effects worked extremely well 
(like a fairy tale castle suspended in air), 
while others, although interesting, (like the 
use of a sheet of plastic to divide the stage) 
were not readily grasped. Still Mr. Guerra 
produced an intriguing, effective, and in
telligent interpretation.
Tales from the Vienna Woods roots are in 
Austrian theater. The conventions of 
Austrian and German life, and the suffer
ings endured in the Great Depression are not 
easily appreciated. However, the atmosphere 
of cynical disillusionment and despair in 
post World War I Vienna was successfully 
generated by the Senior Rep. The ensemble 
acting was strong and lucid. Some standouts 
were Michael Hartson as Alfred, Val Olney 
as Valerie, Kevin Black as Zauberkonig, and 
Kim Anne Connolly as Marianne.
Technically the production was impressive 
but had its problems. The settings by Gary
M. English were generally effective, especial
ly in the excellent first Act. But the flats 
representing a Viennese neighborhood, and 
the cabaret nightclub sets did not evoke 
enough of the dark, degenerated conditions 
of the post-War, depression era. The costumes 
were uneven. Some were quite good, but 
many seemed to miss the mark, both in 
social level (as with Mariannes and Valeries 
costumes too often). Lights by L. S. Colclaser and sound by J. Taylor Frazee were 
quite good overall.
2hies from the Vienna Woods is a dif
ficult, challenging play, and Mr. Guerras 
bold, innovative staging was carried off with 
brio. Although the production had some 
flaws, it was refreshingly ambitious and 
thought provoking.
* * * *
In the Studio theater, Director Christine 
Cummings took the approach of reproduc
ing the play exactly as the author would have 
originally pictured it. Her system was that 
of faithfully recreating rather than ex
perimenting. Her production of Master 
Harold and the Boys succeeded eminently, 
and was quite impressive. Excellent perfor
mances were turned in by the cast of three: 
John Michael Curley as Hally, Lothair Lance 
Eaton as Willie, and Melvin Gregory 
Thomas in a superb performance as Sam. 
Ms. Cummings production showed why this 
play received many awards and high critical 
praise in its Broadway run. This Senior Pro
ject pared theater and drama down to its 
essence: actors working off each other in a 
situation of crackling intensity. The topicali
ty of South African Apartheid also made the 
show a good choice. The settings by Alan 
Reynolds were minimal, but effective. The 
budget seemed non existent, and yet the 
show was well done and quite moving.
Band victoryMorris Day
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor in Chief
With a dance routine and some high 
energy music, The Time, led by Jeff Muller 
as Morris Day, won the Fourth annual Ac
tivities Board Air Band contest.
The group did The Bird while perfor
ming a well-rehearsed dance routine. They 
kept the audience on their feet and very in
volved, which was one of several criteria the 
bands were judged on, some others being 
their lip sync abilities, appearance and 
originality.
Finishing in second and third were the 
Blues Brothers, followed by The Hooters. 
Prizes for the event were $150 for first, $100 
for second and $75 for third.
Emceeing the event was comedian Scott 
Jones, who was very funny when given a 
chance. The crowd, however, wished to see 
air band performers on Saturday night, not 
a comedian. He showed a slide show 
documenting his travels which was very fun
ny. He did run a litde long between acts that 
didnt take much time to set up. Yet he fill
ed time very well while the judges were mak
ing their decisions.
The first performers on the evening were 
Alice Cooper and his band, who did a ter
rific visual version of Schools Out. Cris
Mooney, the Cooper impersonator, started 
out seated in a chair surrounded by an eerie 
blacklight effect; later they guillotined a 
teachers head (a mannequin). It bothered 
me that they threw pencils into the au
dience, perhaps because I was struck by one, 
but overall they were very good.
Following Alice was the group Boston, led 
by lead singer Cam Poluszek. Poluszek did 
a great job as lead singer, but the 
pyrotechnic effects that they used were hid
den behind drummer Willie Mays head.
U2 did a good job on stage, but forgot 
when songs ended and werent ready when 
their second song began. They had fans 
wave flags during their song which was a 
great idea, but it got obnoxious while they 
were waving them during other acts.
Chris Corrigan played a good Lou Reed, 
but Sweet Jane was too long a selection, 
and the crowd, perhaps unwilling to deal 
with Reeds sophisticated lyrics, got a bit 
bored. Power Station followed, but their 
music is very electronic, and electronic ef
fects are very difficult to reproduce on stage. 
Tim Durham looked very natural as drum
mer Tony Thompson, except for his pale 
skin tone.
Next came one of the evenings highlights, 
Andy Bezaitis and Phil Ebbert as The Blues
leads The Time to Air
Cris Mooney played the eerie Alice Cooper.
photo by Olve Peersen
Anne Svedberg and Arnold Blinn helped portray Then We Danced.
Brothers. They knew their music very well, 
and their outfits matched those of the 
originals, as did their routine. They also had 
excellent props, using a desk lamp for a sax
ophone and an air pump for a trombone. 
They had just two minor weaknesses: 
Bezaitis needs to gain weight in order to be 
a true Jake lookalike, and Todd Tomczyk 
should play the trombone with his mouth, 
not his shoulder.
Tears for Fears didnt have much feeling, 
they chose a song no one really knew 
(Mothers Talk) and there was also a 
dispute on whether they had the correct 
number of people in the group. Following 
them was the sexy Julie Brown, portrayed 
by Amy Stempel, who really knew what she 
was singing, and the curling iron she used 
as a microphone was very appropriate for 
the song I Like em Big and Stupid. Julie 
Brown then did a mysterious transformation 
to teenybopper Liz Klein for Cause Im a 
Blonde. The best line of the night was 
Kleins portrayal of a blonde actress with no 
talent, singing Duck Magnum, duck! 
Klein, the only brunette in a group of 
blondes, said after the show, Its symbolic; 
were all blondes at heart.
The Hooters made the song And We
Danced into a dramatic portrayal, with Ar
nold Blinn once again losing his woman, 
Anne Svedberg, to Doug Camplejohn, the 
sexy lead singer. A nice story, but I didnt 
understand the ending, when Blinn just 
joined into the dancing. They were very 
good, and very energetic.
After the winners performed, Clem 
ODonnell did a great rendition of David 
Byrne, the lead singer of the Talking Heads. 
Unfortunately, the rest of the group wasnt 
very good, and the backup singers were way 
out of sync. Van Halen finished the program 
with Hot For Teacher. The teacher cer
tainly was hot, and Steve Harper was a good 
David Lee Roth, but something was lack
ing in their rapport with the audience.
Overall, the night was fun, but I wonder 
why the music has to be so loud that it hurts 
the audiences ears. The judges did a good 
job deciding the winner, though it was not 
a very tough decision. Even the Blues 
Brothers asked What time is it? after ac
cepting their second place award.
The members of the winning group were 
Muller, Kip Jackson, Pat McMullen, Ber
nard Uy, John Judge, Rory Moore and Carl 
Stith.
photo by Jack Poller

---------------------------------------------------

o
DISCOVER ir. 
THE FEELING?
THE MUNICIPALITY Of METROPOLITAN TORONTO
Forbes Travel and Professional Women on Campus
present
Join us in a Holiday Shopping Weekend! 
SPECIAL PACKAGE TO TORONTO INCLUDES:
*Round trip air fare via USAirDeparting Dec. 7th (Sat.) and 
returning Dec. 8th (Sun.)
* Accommodations at the lively superior first-class hotel The 
HOTEL PLAZA II (sister to the Park Plaza.)
* Round trip airport transfers.
*City sightseeing tour.
$149.00 TOTAL per person, double occupancy.
For further information and reservationsFORBES TRAVEL SERVICE 
5875 FORBES AVENUEPITTSBURGH, PA 15217 (412) 521-7300
SAT
ITFS
plZZA
OAKLAND
IN
Discuss Your Future 
With General Electric
Who?
What?
BS and MS candidates in electrical engineering, 
computer science, mechanical engineering, 
chemical engineering, aeronautical engineering 
and nuclear engineering.
The General Electric Technical Recruiting Team 
will be conducting campus interviews for 
challenging career opportunities within one of 
the most diversified companies in the world. 
Contact your placement office to schedule an 
interview with one of our technical managers. 
Various entry level alternatives are available 
such as:
 Edison Engineering Program
 Manufacturing Management Program
 Chemical-Metallurgical Management Program
 Software Technology Program
 Individualized Direct Placement
Opportunities exist in such field as:
 Artificial Intelligence  Plastics
 Expert Systems
 VLSI
 Robotics
 CAD/CAE/CAM
 Computer Graphics
For more information on these programs and 
the major business areas available refer to the 
General Electric file located in your placement 
office.
Metallurgy
Ceramics
Software Engineering 
Signal Processing 
Controls
Monday, November 25th and Tuesday, 
November 26th in your placement officeWhen and 
Where?
What else? Sign-ups will commence Monday, November 11th
The future is working 
at Generar Electric
An equal opportunity employer
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
& 2 LITER PEPSI
.50
CA-P!
i ll I A
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 19
James Galway will play in honor of Carnegie
By ELLEN RILOFF and ERIK HARE
Special to The Tartan
James Galway has built himself an inter
national reputation as arguably the best 
flutist performing today. Although he built 
his reputation within the classical repertoire, 
having spent 6 years as principal flutist for 
the Berlin Philharmonic under Herbert von
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
409 opens at the Forbes Gallery tonight 
at 7:00 p.m., and will run through Sunday. 
Steve Desrochers, Dave French, and Laura 
Gillen have their studios in room 409 of CFA. 
Thus the name, and the nifty drawings on 
those posters youve seen, which are a map 
of their studios. 409 also has an industrialstrength quality to it; its a big, bold, larger 
than life kind of number, and these three ar
tists paintings are all of the above.
Laura Gillen, for example, is showing 
several large paintings. F is a composition 
which uses yellow, pink, lavender, and white 
to form rather indefinite shapes and lines 
which float into each other while giving the 
effect of three dimensions. Another pain
ting, under shows more divisions between 
shapes, and bolder and darker colors. Laura 
may be showing some small drawings, one 
of which is on wood. The drawing is on 
several peices of wood that are glued 
together in a rather rough pattern. Laura 
says that 1 dont want to call it a sculpture, 
so the wood may be considered a part of the 
drawing rather than just the thing the draw
ing is on.
Some of her other drawings, on paper, are 
called Poem, reflecting the work she is do
ing for a poetry workshop she is taking this 
semester. She says, Im trying to make a
Karajan, he may be best known for his abili
ty to carry his expertise into a wide variety 
of musical domains.
Galway has recorded several popular 
albums including a jazz album with singer 
Cleo Laine and a more recent album In the 
Pink' with Henry Mancini. He has promoted 
his diversity with appearances on Sesame
painting the way I make a poem, only us
ing shapes, forms, and objects as words. 
They make a tone (only its called mood in 
painting). The choice of the objects is as im
portant as a choice of words. Lauras 
previous work did not make extensive use of 
color, and her newer material reflects some 
of her purpose. I want to make a beautiful 
painting, so Im trying to work on technical 
things and color more.
Dave French has also make some drastic 
shifts with his paintings recently. Last year 
he was working in landscape a great deal, 
and was successful in having some of his 
pieces shown and bought at this summers 
Three Rivers Arts Festival. Recently, 
however, he has moved more deeply into 
abstraction. His enormous canvasses are now 
largely covered with slashes of paint, more 
concerned with manipulating the canvas 
itself than with providing any representation 
of the outside world. His earlier paintings 
were not strictly representational either, but 
Dave says that their flat surface resutled 
from his vision, which for some reason makes 
him see things two-dimensionally. Dave will 
also be showing some charcoal drawings dur
ing 409. Steve Desrochers also works on 
enormous canvases, but his work is less 
chaotic than Daves. Many of his paintings 
feature brightly painted shapes on dark 
back grounds.
Street, the Muppet Show, and the Tonight 
Show to name a few. He is also popular for 
his entertaining stage antics and his tin pen
ny whistle on which he frequently performs 
a variety of traditional Irish folk music.
It is because of this wide range of talents 
that Galway was invited by the Pittsburgh 
Symphony to perform tommorrow at 
Carnegie Music Hall in honor of Andrew 
Carnegies Sesquicentennial. The choice of 
Galway was an excellent one since he has a 
natural ability to please audiences with his 
light brand of humor; after all, it is a birth
day party!
He will be accompanied by members of 
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in this 
benefit concert. Galway is slated to perform 
and conduct four pieces of the strictly 
classical genre: Mendelssohn: Hebrides
Overture, Mozart: Flute Concerto No. 2 and 
symphony No. 29, Stamitz: Flute Concerto 
in G major.
These works are a slight departure from 
the standard, light-hearted fare for which 
he has become famous, but Galway has 
always been first and foremost a classical 
flutist. His many years of experience have 
made James Galway one of the most 
respected flutists in the world today. This 
performance will be one that should not be 
missed.
James Galway will perform and conduct 
with members of the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra on Wednesday, November 13, 
8:00 pm at Carnegie Music Hall. Tickets are 
f25.00 and $45.00. Call TicketCharge at 
392 4900.
photo by Olve Peersen
Phil Ebbert was El wood in the second place rendition of the Blues Brothers.
"Industrial strength"show to 
premiere at Forbes Gallery
PITT GREEKS
Presents COLLEGE ROCK CONCERT TOUR
DATE:November 17,1985
PLACE:Pitt Field House
TIME:7:00 P.M. to 10:00 P.M.
BANDS:B.E. Taylor  Norm Nardini 
Haywire
TICKETS LIMITED
PRICE:
$7.00 ea.$7.00 &3.
AVAILABLEAT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK

---------------------------------------------------

The AKT Card eliminates fumbling with coins 
and hassling over bills.
The AT&T Card. The fast, easy way 
to call long distance- from anywhere 
to anywhere, anytime. The AT&T Card makes 
keeping in touch with friends and family a lot more 
convenient when youre at school.
Youll be able to get through on almost any public 
phoneon campus or offwithout bothering with 
coins. And youll actually pay up to 50tf less than for 
AT&T collect, third-party or coin state-to-state calls.
In fact, for most calls, its the lowest rate next to 
direct dialing. And theres no charge to order the 
Card; no minimum usage fee.
You can also use your card to make calls from 
other peoples rooms: the charge will show up on your
bill, not theirs. No need to call collect or charge it to a 
third party.
Youll also eliminate a lot of hassle if you share a 
phone with roommates. With the AT&T Card, youll 
get your own separate monthly bill itemizing only 
your calls. Youll pay more per call than if you dialed 
directbut youll save a lot of headaches trying to 
figure out who owes what.
As you can see, the AT&T Card eliminates all 
kinds of hassles. And you can get one whether or not 
you have a phone in your own name. Put The Eliminator 
to work for you. Sign up for your AT&T Card by com
pleting and mailing the attached application. For more 
information call toll free 1 800 CALL ATT, Ext. 4589.

---------------------------------------------------

Complete and mail to: The AT&T Card, College Program, 
P.O. Box 5362, Cincinnati, OH 45201 - 5362
Please Print__________________ APPLICANT INFORMATION
Applicants Full Name (Last, First, Middle)Date of BirthSocial SecuVity Number
Street Address (college)Apt#CityStateZip Code
Telephone Number (college)
( )
How long at address 
yrs.mos.
Number of Dependents Including Spouse
College Telephone is in
? own name ? roommates name ? spouses name ? do not have a phone in my room ? Other
Name of Parent/GuardianAddressCityStateZip CodeParent/Guardian Telephone No.
( )
Are you aU.S. Citizen? ? Yes ? No
Citizenship
COLLEGE AND EMPLOYMENT INFORMATION
College NameStudent Status? Full Time ? Fr ? Jr ? Grad? Part-Time ? Soph ? Sr
MajorGraduation Date Degree: ? Associate Degree? Bachelor? Graduate
Student Housing Monthly Housing ? Dorm ? Rent-House/Apt ? Own ? Parents Payment n Fraternity/Sorority fl Relatives Other $
Present Employer Present PositionHow long? Monthly IncomeFrom Present Job yrs. mos. ^
Source of Other Income ? Grant, Scholarsh (check any which apply) ? Summer Job ? Allowance [I Other (identify)
PAnnual Amount of Other Income 
$ ____
FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Credit references (include charge accounts, installment contracts, finance co., credit cards, rent, etc.). Give complete list of all amounts owing.
Name of CreditorCity/StateType of AccountMonthlyPaymentsBalance Due
$$
$$
$$
Student LoanFinanced by$$
Auto/Motorcycle (Yr. & Model)Financed by$$
Other Obligations$$
? Checking ? Both CheckingBank NameCityState? Savings & Savings
? Checking ? Both CheckingBank NameCityState? Savings & Savings
ADDRESS WHERE YOU WANT BlLL MAILED (card will be mailed to this address
AddressBox #City/State ZipPhone where you may be reached
( )
I agree to pay for charges to the account in accordance with the terms of the applicable tariffs as explained in the AT&T Card Account Agreement which AT&T will send me when my application is approved. I understand that my AT&T Card Account is subject to a maximum monthly usage limit of $100. I understand that once the monthly usage limit is reached, my AT&T Card will be deactivated until payment is received.
I am aware that information gathered about me will be assessed to determine my eligibility for the AT&T Card Account. If I ask, I will be told whether or not consumer reports on me were requested and the names and addresses of the credit bureau that provided the reports. I am aware that I must notify AT&T of any address changes.
SIGNATURE: X_____________________________________________________Date
Note: In order to be considered for an AT&T Card, you must complete and sign this application. Omission of any of the information requested in this application may be grounds for denial.
AT&T
The right choice.
_________________FOR RESEARCH ONLY______________
During an average month how much do you spend on long distance 
telephone calls to places outside your area code?----------------------
 1985 AT&T Communications

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanNovember 12, 1985
Popular jazz artist to come to Pittsburgh
Chuck Mangione will give three performances this weekend at Heinz Hall.
NOTICE!
COMING TO CMUA POSTER SALE
THURSDAY & FRIDAY 
NOVEMBER 14 & 15 
IN SKI BO
* HUNDREDS OF YOUR FAVORITE POSTERS THAT YOU HAVE 
ADMIRED AT POSTER SHOPS AND GALLERIES
* LOW PRICESSTRAIGHT FROM THE WAREHOUSE 
STOP BY TO TAKE A LOOK AROUND
Decorate your rooms! 
Great gifts too!
London School of Economics and Political Science
A chance to study and live in London
Junior-year progr 
Master
jrams. Postgraduate Diplomas. 
One-Year Master's Degrees and Research 
Opportunities in the Social Sciences.
The wide range of subjects includes 
Accounting and Finance  Actuarial Science  
Anthropology  Business Studies  Economics  
Econometrics  Economic History  European 
Studies  Geography  Government  Industrial 
Relations  International History  International 
Relations  Law  Management Science  Operational 
Research  Personnel Management  Philosophy  
Population Studies  Politics  Regional and Urban 
Planning Studies  Sea-Use Policy  Social 
Administration  Social Planning in Developing 
Countries  Social Work e Sociology  Social 
Psychology  Statistical and Mathematical Sciences  
Systems Anaylsis 
Application form from:
Admissions Rsgistrsr, LSE, Houghton Strsst,
London WC2A 2AE. England, ststlng whsthsr 
undsrgrsdusts or postgrsdusts 
and Quoting Room 10.
VLSE
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
If there is a man who is doing what hes 
always wanted to do and loves it, its Chuck 
Mangione. With a seemingly limitless supply 
of jubulance, his love of music, and extremley talented trumpet playing, Chuck 
Mangione has been, and still is, one of the 
premier performers in music today. At Heinz 
Hall on Friday Nov. 15, Sunday the 17th, 
and on Monday the 18th,Chuck Mangione 
will fill the Pittsburgh air with that un
mistakable sound that Feels So Good!
His recent tour, which will be promoting 
his new album Disguise, marks a few changes 
for Mangione. The first of these changes is 
Mangione is not producing the album. Pro
ducer Eumir Deodato brings with him a host 
of new and exciting ideas. Deodato has in
corporated a synthesiser and Digital Drums 
into many of Mangiones new pieces, giving 
them an added dimension that was lacking 
beforehand.
Not only has Deodatos new backgrounds 
added color, but also a few new members to 
Mangiones touring quartet. Keyboardist 
Gordon Sheard and precussionist Ted Moore 
will join reedman Chris Vadala, guitarist 
Peter Harris, bassist Gordon Johnson, and 
drummer Everett Silver.
While growing up in Rochester, New 
York, Mangione began to develop into a 
serious jazz trumpet player. Much of his 
playing was, and still is, influenced by his
close, personal relationship with the immor
tal Dizzy Gilespie. Mangione comments, I 
regard Dizzy as my musical father. After his 
years at the Eastman School of Music in 
Rochester, chuck left home in 1965 to join 
Art Blakey and the Jazz Messengers. Occuping the trumpet chair, which once belong
ed to greats Clifford Brown and Freddie 
Hubbard, Mangione tightened up his style 
and began to venture into composing. With 
his first song released in 1970,Friends and 
Love, Chuck quickly gained national star
dom. In the years to come, Chuck released 
nine albums, of which Feels So Good re
mains his most famous. With these albums 
Chuck recived four Grammy nominations, 
he won twice; two RIAA Gold and one dou
ble Platinum album; an Emmy award for 
Give It All You Got which was used as the 
theme for the 1980 Winter Olympics.
Even with all these awards and honors 
coming in practically every time he turns 
around, Chuck still keeps things in perspec
tive. My purpose in life is not to win Grammys or Emmys or to have double-platinum 
albums, said Chuck, My purpose is to play 
the music I believe in and hope there are 
enough people out there to keep me alive do
ing it.
Chuck Mangione will be appearing at Heinz 
Hall in Downtown Pittsburgh on Friday, 
Sunday, and Monday. Call 392-4900 for 
preformance times and ticket information.
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES! 
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merfibers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985^-The TartanPage 23
Heinz Hall to host Puccini's Opera "Tosca"
The Pittsburgh Opera will present as the 
second offering in its forty-seventh season 
Puccinis ever-popular Tosca, with 
Metropolitan Opera soprano Marilyn 
Zschau in the title role. The production, 
devised by Tito Capobianco, will be staged 
by Gigi Denda, and conducted by Theo 
Alcantara. The classic tale of jealousy, 
treachery and murder comes to life in Heinz 
Hall on Thursday, November 14 and Satur
day, November 16 at 8 pm, and on Tues
day, November 19 at 7 pm. Tosca will be 
sung in Italian, aided by OpTrans, pro
jected English translations.
Against a backdrop of the Napoleonic 
war, the celebrated diva Floria Tosca plots 
to save the life of her lover, Cavaradossi, 
sung by Finnish tenor Peter Lindroos, in his 
Pittsburgh debut. Tragedy strikes when 
Tosca resists the scheming advances of the 
corrupt police chief, Baron Scarpia, por
trayed by American bass-baritone Robert 
Hale.
To many of todays opera lovers, Tosca 
is Puccini at his very best. The tum-of-thecentury Italian composer collaborated on 
the libretto with Giuseppe Giacosa and 
Luigi Illica, the same team that produced 
La Boheme and, later, Madame Butterf
ly. As a man of the theater, Puccini created 
a violent melodrama with beautiful melodies 
and a rich orchestration. Tosca reached 
Londons Covent Garden later that year, 
and New Yorks Metropolitan Opera in 
1901, already an international success.
Owing to its great popularity, Tosca is 
the fourth most frequently produced opera 
in Pittsburgh, surpassed only by Carmen, 
La Boheme and La Traviata. This will 
be the twelfth staging since its Pittsburgh
Bringing Government Information to You
Information from the 
Federal Government on 
subjects ranging from 
agriculture to zoology is 
available at Depository 
Libraries across the 
nation.
You can visit these . 
libraries and use the 
Depository collection 
without charge.
To find one in your 
area, contact your local 
library or write to the 
Federal Depository 
Library Program, Office 
of the Public Printer, 
Washington, DC 20401. 
Federal Depository 
library Program
Opera premiere in November, 1946, with 
Vivian Della Chiesa in the title role. Subse
quent Toscas have included Birgit Nelson, 
Evelyn Lear, Eleanor Steber, Mija Novich, 
and, most recently in February 1981, Nicole 
Lorange.
Both vocally and histrionically, Marilyn 
Zschau is a dazzling Tosca, wrote a critic 
following performances at the Australian 
Opera in Sydney. The American soprano 
continually adds to her considerable reputa
tion as one of todays great singing actresses. 
Last February she made her Metropolitan 
Opera debut as Musetta in La 
Boheme,conducted by Plcido Domingo, 
and in the spring she returned to the Vien
na State Opera in a new Poinnelle produc
tion of Cavalleria Rusticana. Miss Zschau 
first appeared with Pittsburgh Opera as 
Leonora in the 1980 production of II 
Trovatore.
Tenor Peter Lindroos launched his inter
national career at the Royal Opera House 
in Copenhagen in 1971. Since then he has 
appeared in the European opera houses of 
Covent Garden, Paris, Vienna, Berlin and 
Stockholm, among others. In the United 
States he has sung with the companies of
Washington, Baltimore, Cleveland and 
Minneapolis.
Bass-baritone Robert Hale has sung hun
dreds of performances at the New York Ci
ty Opera, including the role of Escamillo in 
last seasons national PBS telecast of Frank 
Corsaros Spanish Civil War version of 
Carmen. He is a regular guest in Euro
pean and American opera houses, and he 
will make his Covent Garden debut in 1987.
Also featured in the cast of Tosca are 
bass Juan Pedro Garcia Marques as the 
Sacristan, tenor David Dreher as Spoleta, 
baritone Carlos Chausson as Angelotti, bassbaritone Kevin Glavin as the jailer, baritone 
David Orcutt as Sciarrone, and soprano 
Barbara Aubel as the young shepherd.
Maestro Theo Alcantara returns to the 
Pittsburgh Opera podium following last 
seasons productions of La Battaglia Di 
Legnano and Manon.. Music Director of 
the Phoenix Symphony, he has conducted 
many of the major opera companies and 
symphony orchestras throughout the U.S. 
and South America.
Gigi Denda made her Pittsburgh Opera 
directing debut last season with the acclaim
ed production of Manon. Her credits as
director, choreographer and lighting 
designer extend to the opera houses of Ham
burg, Berlin, Paris, Sydney, Buenos Aires, 
and San Diego, as well as the Spoleto 
Festival and New York City Opera.
This production of Tosca was devised 
by Tito Capobianco. The scenery was 
originally designed for the New York City 
Opera by Donald Oenslage. The lighting 
designer is Michel Deegan.
The projected English translation of 
Tosca is by Francesca Zamb^llo. It is own
ed by San Francisco Opera, where it is 
designated as Supertitles, a registered 
trademark of the San Francisco Opera 
Association. Supertitles for Tosca were 
made possible by a generous gift from 
American Express.
The artists transportation to and from 
Pittsburgh is provided by USAir, the official 
airline of the Pittsburgh Opera.
Single tickets for Tosca are on sale now, 
ranging in price from $8 $38. Tickets may 
be purchased at the Heinz Hall Box Office, 
Kaufmanns, Gimbels and TIX at Oliver 
Plaza, or by calling Ticketcharge at 
412-392-4900 (Visa/MasterCard/American 
Express accepted).
PICKUP 
A PARTY
THIS BUD'S 
FOR YOU.
BuoweisciMc or APOINTMEPCISRRYNCISl mesr touts

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA  PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA 
<
<
N
N
<
N
N
PIZZA
810 IVY STREET
682-3333
I-r-r-r- r Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sunday 12 pm-12 am
N
N
>
We sell pizza by the slice
LARGE$ 
PIZZA
J
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
Of
Ad
-CB
>FREE
liter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza
 PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA
N
N
>
free walk-in tutoring program 
each week
^onBOftd by Sudenl AfMn and VwCounMkiQQndlkidMlDfvilopfnMtOinlw to Moro 0 d Portent, I Ion WM
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
Calculus PH-126A
Pro I, N, HI
Physics PH - 126B
Chemistry PH - 225B
English as a BH - 135B
second language
Economics PH  226B
Intro to Computing WEH-5415
Financial Accounting PH-226C
Academic Writing Problems BH - 235B
JOIN THE FIGHT AGAINST HEART DISEASE
SUPPORT THE AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION, WESTERN PA. CHAPTER
"BIG HEART" BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT 
NOV. 22-23 at CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
FRIDAY- POINT PARK VS. PITT-JOHNSTOWN, 7:00 
CARNEGIE-MELLON VS. LaROCHE, 9:00
INDIVIDUAL GAME 
TICKETS ARE $3 
FOR ADULTS AND 
$1.50 FOR STUDENTS
SATURDAY-CONSOLATION GAME, 6:00 
CHAMPIONSHIP GAME,8:00
PRIZES WILL BE GIVEN AWAY EACH NIGHT 
$100 SCRAMBLE SATURDAY NIGHT
TOURNAMENT TICKETS 
ADULTS-$5 
STUDENTS $2
FOR TICKETS CALL 578-3087, 578-2211 or 731-7500
"WE'RE FIGHTING FOR YOUR LIFE"

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Volleyball wraps up a successful season
Monica Zalevsky spikes strongly against Grove City in their last match of the season.
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
The CMU Volleyball team finished their 
season this week with a rough defeat to 
Grove City College by a score of 4-1. Grove 
City, a consistently strong volleyball force, 
is currently ranked second nationally in Divi
sion III. Coach Jane Fisk was very pleased 
with the performance that her girls gave. 
Grove City had seen the way we had been 
improving and they were worried about us. 
We gave them a real run for their money. 
CMU took the first game with a close score 
of 18-16. The following four matches came 
out close as well. The scores were 12-15, 
16-18, and 5-15. Coach Fisk commented that 
just a couple of breaks one way or the other 
made the difference. This puts CMU second 
or third in the PAC depending on how W&J 
fares against their opponents this week.
The team played without Sue Jordan this 
week, but her replacement, Diane Watson, 
played exceptionally well also. Marianne 
Smith quarterbacked the best game of her 
life. CMUs final standings will be posted 
next week.
photo by Andy Gillespie
New Division possible in CMU's future
, By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Due to the recent successes of the CMU 
varsity program, once again the powers that 
be are playing with the idea of upgrading 
or changing our competition. Two 
reasonable options are open to them. The 
first is to move CMU up to Division IAA 
status. The second, and more probable, 
choice is to form a new league comprised of 
institutions much like our own.
Changing our position to that of a Divi
sion IAA team is a drastic, perhaps overzealous, step. This change of division affects 
all the teams not only the football team who 
defeated IAA Bucknell earlier this season. 
Not to detract from the victory, but Bucknell 
is having a poor season while the Tartans are 
seeing some of their finest play. The better 
IAA teams could be considerably more dif
ficult. Regardless, many of the other Tartan 
teams are not at the point where they are 
prepared to see action against even the most 
feeble of Division IAA schools.
-1 This proposal also loses its momentum 
when the subject of funding comes into play. 
Certain divisions require that their par
ticipating schools have stadiums of a certain 
minimum size (lech Field wouldnt cut it) 
and allow for scholarships and more intense 
recruitment. These finances have to come 
from somewhere and there are certain areas, 
in sports and out, that are more worthy of
the funding.
The more likely, though still not definite, 
alternative would be to form a new league 
with schools that attract students like those 
that attend CMU. Some of these schools 
might include MIT, University of Chicago, 
Emory, Rochester Institute of Tech., New 
York University, Case Western Reserve, and 
Washington University in St. Louis. These 
teams are considered on the Division III level 
but provide a slightly more challenging type 
of competition. Competing against schools 
located so far away raises the question of 
travel expenses. The information provided 
at this point does not make clear where these 
funds will come from. It was stressed, 
however, that CMU sees this as a project for 
a few years down the road. They are more 
concerned with the matters needing atten
tion now such as the renovation of the 
athletic complex and the need for updated 
equipment.
CMU has also been invited into the Ohio 
Athletic Conference which is comprised of 
universities such as Case Western, Allegheny 
and others situated in Ohio. This is a 
tougher conference and another possible 
alternative.
Certain questions of expenses for both 
traveling and equipment need to be 
answered. This information will appear in 
a follow-up story to be printed in a future 
issue.
"Here son! I want you to meet your new playmates!"
The Tartans out on Tech Field practicing for their upcoming NCAA Division III playoffs. Will it someday be Division I?
photo by Andy Gillespie

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanNovember 12, 1985
This Week's !M Report
The playoff results are in for the minor 
and major league IM touch-football cham
pionships. The Air Force ROTC combined 
a strong running attack with Air Force 
bombs of long passes to defeat DU for the 
1985 Intramural touch-football champion
ships of the minor league.
Pika, led by last years Most Valuable 
Player Rick Trombetta, came back in the 
last 42 seconds of the hard fought game to 
defeat an excellent Beta-A team for the 1985 
major league championships.
Trombetta fired a touchdown pass into the 
end-zone where his teammate made a div
ing catch to sink the Betas 25-19. Most 
Valuable Player and all school team will be 
in next week.
The finals of the IM tennis league will be
played this week. The Majors are between 
TX and Slap n Tickle. The intermediates 
are between SAE and Pilam.
The IM Volleyball champions are (majors) 
TX-A (intermediates) Your Mamma, 
(minors) DU vs. Pilam (to be played).
Some general standings: IM Chess; Finite 
Support leads followed by a tie between SAE 
and Better Half. DTD leads in major league 
water polo followed by Fresh and Phi Kap. 
In the minor leagues, Theta Xi leads follow
ed by Mutantstrain and 4-E-Tower. In Im 
Table Tennis, Beverage Drinkers lead with 
Have The Odds in second. Racquetball 
shows Joes Team leading the majors and SAE 
leading the minors.
IM Soccer schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM Office. Games started
^4.
FIND YOUR PLACE 
IN THE SKY
If you have the talent, ambition and determination to become part of 
an elite group, you may have what it takes to meet the challenge of the 
infinite frontier...the sky.
Air Force pilots are a unique breed. They accomplish and experience 
things that are beyond the grasp of most people. They know the 
exhilaration of flying sophisticated multi-million dollar aircraft that are 
on the leading edge of technology.
Its not easy to become an Air Force pilot. The challenges are m^sy 
and the competition is fierce. However, earning the silver wings of an 
Air Force aviator is a rewarding experience reserved for a select few.
As an Air Force pilot you will receive a competitive salary, 30 days 
paid vacation a year, unlimited sick leave, free medical and dental 
care, educational assistance, travel and more.
If you would like to share the skies with a very special group of people, 
please contact us at:
TSgt. Patterson (412)644-2 705
FORCE
A great way of life.
"Looking back, I have 10 smile The weather was beautiful, the water was warm, and I leaf 
more about field research than I ever thought possible 
Ann Mane SpugnarJi 
Carnegie- Mellon Vnnersil i
Marine Biology and Management 
Virgin Islands 
February 4 - April 29, 1986
An integrated five course semester program offered by the School for 
Field Studies.
Courses (20 quarter credits)
Marine Biology 
Tropical Ecology 
People, Pollution and Policy 
Peoples and Cultures of the Caribbean 
Directed Research
 Based at the Virgin Islands Ecological Research Station facilities 
on St. John  A 50-foot sailboat will transport us between the 
research sites  SCUBA certification will be offered  Financial 
aid is available.
For information call or write:
SCHOOL FOR FIELD STUDIES
Box A, 196 Broadway,
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 
(617) 497-9000
photo by Jay West
CMU Intramural Co-Ed Volleyball in action.
on November 7. Volleyball standings can be 
seen outside the IM office also. Sorry, no var
sity volleyball players are permitted to par
ticipate in this IM event.
It is not too late to sign up for threeperson volleyball. Entry forms are due 
November 14 or contact Dom Colangelo,
commissioner at Beta. Also keep an eye out 
for IM Backgammon.
The IM Board ruled against allowing 
Union employees to participate in the IM 9 
Program at last weeks meeting. The next 
meeting will be Thursday, November 21 at 
12:30 p.m. in the IM Office.
Weightlifting Club forming
f he Schuo! 2M field rc*
a bicUi Studie* a private, nonprofit, education*; organization that oiler* over 
rch program around he work)
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
For those students interested in weight
lifting and body-building, there is a club be
ing formed to cater to the needs and interests 
of active weight and power-lifters. Under the 
auspices of Lionel Young, last years second 
place finisher in the Pittsburgh Intercollegiates, and David Corcoran, the club 
hopes to educate its members in the work
ings of weight-room etiquette and how to ef
fectively utilize the available facilities. They 
are also striving to have weight-room hours 
extended for club members.
As a club, they are hoping to organize two 
competitions. The first will be a powerlifting contest planned for mid-January in 
order to allow football players, and other 
CMU athletes, to prepare for it. The second
is a basic body-building competition slated 
for early April.
The club is encouraging anyone interested 
in lifting competition, and seriously persu
ing body-building as a sport to come out. 
Women are equally as welcome as are in
dividuals who do not have a lot of lifting ex
perience but do have a serious desire to 
learn.
Having obtained Dean Coxs approval, the 
club is awaiting recognition from the Stu
dent Senate to set all their plans into mo
tion. Expect to see flyers around campus in 
a few weeks with further details. According 
to one of the groups organizers, There is 
a growing misconception that students here 
at CMU are only interested in books ami 
computers. People should, once in a while, 
get out from under them and do something 
for and about their bodies.
Pelle Lindbergh, the All-Star goalie for 
the Philadelphia Flyers, was critically in
jured in a sports car accident early Sunday 
morning. At press time, he was listed as
brain-dead and is being kept alive only by 
a respirator. His Physician gave him only a 
50% chance of living through the night.
GAY & LESBIAN ALLIANCE
Informal Support group dealing with relevant 
issues. Confidential. For more information, mail 
self-adressed envelope to:
CMU GALA 
P.O. Box 19068 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 27
Ice Tartans skate by Indiana U of P: 4-1
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
The Carnegie-Mellon Hockey Club rais
ed its record over the .500 mark, to 3-2, last 
Saturday with a 4-1 victory over Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania. The game, 
which was played at IUPs home rink in Kittaning, was marked by numerous penalties 
and the aggressive, physical play of both 
teams
CMUs offensive attack was led by right 
wing Rob Katz. Katz, who scored 2 goals, 
gave CMU an early 1-0 lead with 12:32 left 
in the first period. He was assisted on that 
goal by Don Heyse and Mark Licata.
Licata was filling in that afternoon for 
Steve Desrochers, one of three ice Tartans 
fulfilling their military obligation. The 
others were Shawn McGinn and Meade 
Rudasill. Despite the three members miss
ing, CMU had plenty of players.
Licata was also involved in the second 
CMU goal, as he assisted Don Heyse 16 
seconds into the second period.
IUP tightened up the game as John 
OLeary made the score 2-1 with an 
unassisted goal halfway through the second 
period. But the hockey club put the game 
on ice as Katz, also unassisted, scored a 
power-play goal and Bob Cook, assisted by 
Mercak and Halloran, also netted the puck.
Despite scoring 2 goals, CMUs third 
period performance did not satisfy team 
captain Mike Halloran. We worked the 
puck up very well, but we couldnt put it 
home. Halloran did have praise for goalie 
Rob Kozakowski. Koz played a geat game 
 as usual.
CMUs next game was scheduled to be 
against Pitt, but that game was reschedul
ed due to rink construction. But the team 
will see action this weekend at Lakeview.
Pens: A Big Question Mark
By RICK DUVALL
Tartan Staffwriter
On Saturday evening the Pittsburgh 
Penguins tallied their 500th win as a Na
tional League stop.They entered the season 
with 496 wins and were assured of winning 
four games this year. As they opened the 
season with two losses, even a bad year was 
in question. The question raged, Just how 
bad will the Penguins be this year? But, in 
their next six games they were only beaten 
once, gaining three wins and two ties. This 
seemed to turn the tide. After, on 0-2-0 start 
they were 3-3-1 and had 499 wins. In fact, 
they won two games in two nights from 
Toronto. The only loss was to Quebec who 
was 7-1-0 at the time, but they then manag
ed to tie Quebec at home after the two wins 
against the Maple Leafs.
What happened on Saturday night? As 
the law of hockey goes the Penguins should 
have been destroyed by the Blackhawks. The 
Pens were coming off a game in which they 
lost in the third period because they fell 
apart. Playing two nights in a row is a 
double-edged sword. One edge, winning the 
first night, makes the second game much 
easier because of the emotional high. The 
other, aftci a loss, makes a win very tough 
because of the drain of the first defeat. Since 
the Pens play like they are drained for no 
reason at all, they were expected to hand 
Chicago points for a win with no problem. 
But, they responded with the best game they
have played all year and a 3-1 victory over 
the Hawks.
Everything the Pens did was right and the 
few slip ups that did occur were covered 
because the other skaters were in exactly the 
right place. Lady Luck was also with them 
in a big way. About half way through the 
third period, Chicago had a golden oppor
tunity to tie the game but missed an open 
net. On a shot from goalie Roberto 
Romanos right, he made a stick save, but 
fell as he did it. The puck rebounded to a 
Blackhawk of to the left. He found himself 
ten feet in front of an empty net, but his slap 
shot, not a good move, landed in about the 
twentieth row of the seats. On an earlier 
Chicago breakaway, the shooter fanned after 
faking Romano to the ice. To top off the 
evening, Chicago was allowed only 18 shots 
and one goal.
Can the Pens begin to play hockey at a 
level to compete in the NHL? Will we only 
be graced with these occasional great games? 
If the pens want to to play in May they must 
turn in more of these great games. This win 
came at a very opportune time. The Pens 
are about embark on their first western 
swing of the year. This win will help carry 
them on very tough and long road trip. 
It will be a good trip if they come home 1-1-1. 
Hopefully, this will make the end of the 
Penguins as we have known them lately, 
losers. Something tells me Im just a little too 
optimistic. Time will tell.
MICRO RENTAL SERVICE
Microcomputer Equipment Rental
IBM
COMPAQ
EPSON
QUADRAM
PRINCETON
BROTHER
COMREX
NOVABEAM
25 Nec monitor
Discount Supplies
Daily - Weekly - Monthly
Phone (412) 487-5226
photo by Dewey Rieder
A Tartan forward dumps the puck between the IUP goalie's pads.
m Tartan of,
on Sundau <xtemow\s

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT SENATE
Today 9am9pm
in SKIBO
EVAN MCDONNELL 
CIT
There has been a lot of talk on this cam
pus recently about student apathy. I dont 
believe students are apathetic. I think that 
they just dont have the time to effectively 
express their opinions on issues of campus 
interest. As student senator I will actively 
solicit opinions from as many CIT members 
as possible so I can best represent 
your views.
EDWARD WELSH 
CIT
I believe that you have to grab the bull 
by the. . .torpedo, and run with the herd.
I promise to hold office hours every 
Thursday, from 9:00 p.m. to midnight at
C. J.s. Every week we will discuss prominent 
issues on production, shipping, and con
sumption of hops and barley products (i.e. 
the bull, etc.). Contrary to popular belief, 
I do not have narcolepsy.
Dont be a fool, vote for the bull, Ed 
Welsh for CIT 86.
CHERIE JAGERSKI 
CIT
No one likes a complainer. Even worse a 
chronic complainer who does nothing about 
the problem. Im a guilty complainer, but 
I also take action. My record with Student 
Senate proves it. In my 13 months on Senate 
I have accomplished quite a few changes en 
route to solving problems.
To me Senate is an enjoyable challenge. 
If reelected, I will continue to represent my 
constituents in CIT and work for the general 
good of the student body.
MYLES GREENBERG 
CIT
Hi, my name is Myles Greenberg. I am 
currently a student senator for CIT, having 
served on senate for the past semester on the 
Academic Affairs Committee.
We have been working on such problems 
and issues as graduate students teaching 
courses, and the controversial proposed 
honor code.
On the Senate, I hope to continue to work 
on the students long and short range pro* 
blems as well as to work towards the general 
improvement of CMU.
CINDY TAYLOR 
MCS
As chairman of the Academic Affairs 
Committee of the Student Senate for the 
past two years, I have effectively represented 
the educational concerns of the students. I 
would like to continue that service. I am also 
serving as the students liason to the faculty 
and administration. Therefore, if you have 
any comments or complaints, come to me 
and we can work out an appropriate path.
SETH KAPLAN 
MCS
Another semester, another election. 
Yawn! As you sit there and casually browse 
through your newspaper reading about how 
each candidate will change Student Senate 
and about how great they are for the job of 
Student Senator, I will simply not bother. 
I will always try my best to represent you or 
I wouldnt consider running.
But, as for making your classes any more 
interesting, that just wont happen...
NO STATEMENT
Maria Cosineau 
MCS

---------------------------------------------------

ELECTIONS
NOT PICTURED
CIT4 seats availableHSS3 seats availableMCS4 seats available
(iy2 term)SUPA2 seats available(1V2 term)CFA2 seats availableGSIA2 seats available
(\Vi term)IM1 seat available
CHRISSY HYNES 
CFA
NO STATEMENT
GRAY MATTER
\)
UDAY PATNAIK 
H&SS
The Student Senate is a beneficial 
organization for C.M.U. students. As a cur
rent senator, I have enjoyed representing my 
colleagues and friends at Senate meetings 
and allocating funds to clubs and organiza
tions. Id like to thank everyone who has sup
ported me in the past and those who con
tinue to do so. The experience Ive gained 
as your Senator is over and above my ex
periences from other organizations. Thank 
you for this opportunity.
PETER LONSKY 
H&SS
Student Senate is an important entity on 
any campus. It is the main forum for 
students to express their opinions and pro
duce positive actions in conjuction with the 
administration. I have an interest in the 
needs of my H&SS constituents, but I feel 
senators must not limit their scope. I can on
ly promise that my decisions wil be as in
formed as possible and that I will vote as a 
concerned student, a member of the CMU 
campus community.
Allen Greenberg 
H&SS
I am a sophomore majoring in Public 
Policy & Management and Psychology. Work 
Experience: (1) Two summers  legal firm: 
(2) One summer  political activiist for 
New Jersey Citizen Action. Goals: (1) Survey 
the campus for campus-wide programs of in
terest such as Global Population. (2) Divest
ment of CMU portfolio from companies do
ing business in South Africa. (3) Expanded 
lecture series dealing with social science 
topics. I will strive to represent the students 
of H&SS to the best of my ability.
Tomorrow 9am9pmfunded by Activities fee
STEVE VOLAN 
H&SS
Teddy Roosevelt once wrote, The only 
safe rule is to promise little, and faithfully 
to keep every promise; to speak softly and 
carry a big stick.
Vote for Tall Steve and vote safely.
JEAN NOVAK 
SUPA
I am seeking re-election as a Student 
Senator because I feel that graduate 
students need to be represented in student 
government. It is often difficult for graduate 
students to keep up with campus activities 
and happenings becuase we are usually 
isolated from the undergraduate world of 
CMU due to our schedules. I would like to 
again help to narrow the gap between CMU 
campus life and graduate students.

---------------------------------------------------

tumoral.
Fundraiser for MS a good chance to unite campus
Preparations are underway for a campuswide fundraiser at Camegie-Mellon to benefit 
the National Multiple Sclerosis Society 
(NMSS). One of 150 universities participating, 
Carnegie-Mellon has entered a contest which 
will bring a nationally televised MTV concert 
to that school.
It would be a lot of fun to have an MTV 
concert right here at Camegie-Mellon. Last 
year, the NMSS ran a test program, with 
midwestem schools participating. Notre Dame 
was the winner, raising $25,000 for the victory. 
Last year, Theta Xi and Kappa Alpha Theta 
raised nearly half that much in one event, by 
themselves.
Yes, bigger schools will be competing in the 
contest. But this campus is big enough. The 
main point is to realize that the real winners 
in the contest are those with MS, a neurological 
disease that strikes most often in young adults.
Februarys Rock-Alike contest is the 
culmination of a process that begins later this 
month with registration. More information on 
how to register will be in next weeks Tartan, 
or you can find out more from Students 
Against Multiple Sclerosis campus chairperson 
Faramarz Shargh, better known as Mouse.
Get involved in this. Anyone can register, 
but there is a registration fee which you have 
to raise. Every campus organization should 
sponsor a contestant, or at least hold fund
raisers to support the effort. Groups may enter, 
but if they win, only one member may go on 
to the regional Rock-Alike contest due to 
financial restraints.
It is not often that the Camegie-Mellon 
students unite for one reason, for a single 
cause. This is a perfect time for this to hap
pen. Whether you are holding a can for loose 
change or acting out the part of your favorite 
rock star, you will be helping to fund research 
to stop a disease that as yet has no cure. And 
if Camegie-Mellon happens to win the national 
contest, all the better. As the SAMS slogan 
reads, lets get fired up to bust MS.
Stressful yet enjoyable
Editor:
I am grateful to Stephen Kraus 
for giving us a perspective on 
CMU which I do not have, name
ly the working worlds perspective. 
In my opinion letter I tried to 
speak not so much to the person 
who by working hard will make it 
through CMU, but to those in
dividuals who feel overpressured 
and overburdened with work. In 
the postscript to my letter, I ex
plained that I, like Stephen, have 
gone through four years at CMU 
and am also now a graduate stu
dent. During this time, though, I 
had one semester (fall junior year) 
which made me sympathetic to 
what some students here might be 
going through all four years. 
Namely, I had about 10 hours of 
free time all semester and felt like 
life that semester was one big 
assignment. (Without being able 
to share my troubles with the Lord 
and without the generous en
couragement and prayers of 
friends, the semester would in
deed have left an empty feeling.)
People differ considerably on 
how quickly they catch on to con
cepts. For those who are over
whelmed here already as 
freshmen becuase they do not 
grasp things as quickly as others, 
I feel it may be wise to consider 
a transfer. This is because too 
much stress can be unhealthy for 
ones life, both mentally and 
physically, and may lead to an 
empty or crushed outlook. Stress 
may be part of our culture, but 
that does not mean we must ac
cept it and give up trying to avoid 
being overstressed. I believe in the
importance of hard work as much 
as Mr. Kraus, but I also feel that 
some people here may be stressed 
to the breaking point. For them 
a decision to transfer would not be 
a sign of failure but a sign of a 
realistic decisionmaking process.
On the point of hearing people 
describe college as the best years 
of my life, I in no way wished to 
imply this was a healthy outlook.
I used this statement simply as a 
tool to see if we are enjoying col
lege life, for it should be enjoyed. 
Certainly I believe in enjoying the 
rest of life too! But college is a uni
que opportunity. Almost nowhere 
else does one have the dormitory 
atmosphere of constantly being in 
contact with people whom one 
can learn from both by their ac
tios and views on life. My ex
roommate commented to me that 
now that he is in the working 
world, it really takes an effort to 
establish relationships with peo
ple, and the relationships one 
establishes tend not to be as 
diverse as here.
I too do not believe in just 
engaging solely in Socratic 
thought experiments and feel that 
few universities today would en
courage this. However, I feel that 
although college is not the only 
time to develop ones personal, ac
tive philosophy (after all, ones 
true outlook is shown in actions,) 
it is a unique period in ones life 
becuase of the . different at
mosphere here. Universities were 
in fact founded in order to 
critically analyze society, learn 
about Creation, and develop the
individual. When they become
too problem-solving oriented, the 
students lose the broad perspec
tive so often lacking in our socie
ty (i.e., how the problems I am 
solving are affecting the society I 
am working in.) Without thic 
perspective human beings just 
become crank turners and money 
earners while letting the 
technologies developed take their 
own course, or be guided by a few 
individuals who do not always 
have the perspective and moral 
stamina necessary to insure pro
gress is indeed towards the bet
ter. I certainly appreciate depart
ments like EPP and schools like 
SUPA which try to integrate pro
blem solving with developing a 
pespective on the effect 
technologies have on society. 
Hopefully students will take ad
vantage of courses offered in these 
areas and will refrain from the 
tendency to immediately become 
narrowly focused.
I along with Stephen encourage 
each one of you to look forward 
to the future for your best times. 
At the same time, though, do not 
ignore the present and think of 
CMU as just something to get 
through to get a job. Make an ef
fort to enjoy and experience what 
this unique time in your life has 
to offer. And if you feel that 
changes in your personal 
philosophy or your environment 
will facilitate both enjoying and 
contributing to life  then mak** 
them!
Scott Bronner 
MEMS Grad. Student
We at The Tartan are pleased to announce the purchase of some software which will hopefully decrease 
production time and typographical errors. The Tartan will now accept submissions sent by computer mail 
to TT99@TF. Disk files typed using any word processor may be transferred to our account. See your friendly 
user consultant for details.

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 31
Letters:
ROTC may be more 
than meets the eye
Editor:
On page 3 of last weeks Tartan, I learned 
jthat there are over 100 CMU students who 
are prepared to salute the American flag 
while donning military uniforms this Mon
day. According to Albrecht Powell, they will 
be commemorating all the persons who 
fought for our freedom, as well as those 
who died so we might be free. He con
tinues, these ROTC students.. .uphold (the 
flag) with the greatest of reverence, for it 
symbolizes all that is America. Addressing 
the CMU community, Powell suggested to 
think how lucky you are to be free, to be 
an American.
While I have nothing against having 
positive feelings about ones country, I have 
difficulty understanding what the death of 
young men in military conflicts outside the 
US has to do with the personal freedom of 
US citizens. What did the death of those 
Marines in Beirut have to do with the 
freedom of Americans like our neighbors up 
in the Hill district, whose oppressed social 
conditions has shown no marked improve
ment in our lifetime? What makes the death 
of young individuals for the cause of US im
perialist policiesso honorable?
Im sure there are ROTC students who 
actually believe all the propoganda that 
there exists a true democracy in this society 
and that the ecomomic system of com
munism, perversely distorted by totalitarian 
governments in other other countries who 
claim to prectice it, actually poses a threat 
to the grossly secure political system of the
US. But with annual tuition about $10,000, 
might not some of these students be willing 
to throw their morality out the window for 
a few years so that they can benefit an 
education they might otherwise be unable 
to receive?
More disturbing was the article by Mitchel Reichgut on page 7, pushing the ROTC 
program as though it were the greatest in
vention since the atomic bomb. Where else 
can a student drive a tank, rapell down a 
mountain side, or build a camouflage 
shelter? What CMU students have driven 
tanks? It would seem to me that sports cars, 
or even an Am track train, would be more 
exciting than that. I personally do lots of 
mountain climbing, and as removed from 
US military interests as possible. I even think 
there is a club on campus which rapells 
regularly. As for those who have nothing 
better to do than build camouflage shelters, 
Id like to express my sympathy. Are those 
the special skills that Reichgut is referr
ing to, when he claims that those in the ser
vice have experience that you cant get 
anywhere else?
If the greatest selling-point of being in the 
ROTC is the assurance of a job, Reichgut 
ought to ask Powell how lucky collegegraduates are to be American if they have 
so much difficulty finding jobs. In most 
civilized countires, higher education is free 
in the first place, and graduates are assured 
postions (usually related to their field), free 
from having to serve military interests.
One should think about what the interests 
of the government are in entering an in
tellectual academic environment like CMU. 
Exactly what takes place in these special 
classes touted by Reichgut? Perhaps this is 
where otherwise intelligent individuals are 
taught to obediently follow military 
discipline, so that they may be instructed to 
carry out the demands of their superiors
with loyalty, dignity, and honor. Id imagine 
that the individual freedoms of Soviet of
ficers would be of comparable levels.
At an anti-apartheid/divestment 
demonstration on campus recently, a CMU 
professor described the sentiments of one of 
his students: I wasnt sure whether to be 
pro-apartheid or anti-apartheid until I 
learned in my ROTC class that South Africa 
would fall into communist hands if the pre
sent government fell from power. Perhaps 
this best demonstrates how ROTC is more 
than meets the eye.
Norbert Schindler 
Math/Music 86
SAA presents 
support for views
Editor:
Students Against Apartheid would like to 
present briefly our reasons for supporting 
CMUs total divestment in companies which 
do business in South Africa. First, however, 
we would like to point out that two of the 
three articles on South Africa in the October 
21 issue of The Tartan incorrectly stated 
that CMUs investment policy adheres to the 
Sullivan Principles; in fact, although Presi
dent Cyert has requested The Board of 
Trustees to adopt the Sullivan Principles 
since 1978, they have not done sowe still 
have investments in companies that do not 
follow the Sullivan Principles.
While partial divestment (of invesments 
in non-Sullivan followers) is a good first step, 
SAA believes that the situation in South 
Africa warrents total divestment. Since less 
than 1% of the blacks work for US com
panies, those businesses upholding the 
Sullivan Principles (about 150 out of 300) 
effect very few black lives directly. In reali
ty, a minority of the companies which pay 
lip service to the principles actually follow 
them. The Principles are against South 
African lawonly 4% of those blacks work
ing for Sullivan Principle signatories are in 
management positions.
US companies, however, contribute 
significatly to the white South African 
govemment-the US sector commands 70% 
of the computer market, 40% of the 
petroleum market, and contributes hun
dreds of millions to the South African 
government in the form of taxes. American 
computers are used by the South African 
government to run the pass lav/ system, 
which severely restricts the movements of 
blacks.
President Cyert has argued that South 
African blacks dont want foreign divest
ment because it would hurt the black ma
jority more than the white minority. Actual
ly, despite a law prohibiting support of 
foreign economic sanctions, 73% of the 
blacks favor foreign business withdrawal. 
The three largest black trade unions support 
disinvestment: Foreign investment is a 
pillar of the whole system which maintains 
the virtual slavery of the black workers 
(Black South African Congress of Trade 
Unions). Both the United Democratic Front 
and the African National Congress, two of 
the largest black political action groups, 
support disinvestment, as have many South 
African church organizations.
For these reasons, and many others, we 
support divestment as one of the few 
peaceful methods that the US can use to 
cause a change in apartheid. Specifically, 
this is an effective statement that we, as 
CMU students, can make. We can no 
longer, with good conscience, give out sup
port, directly or indirectly, to the apartheid 
system.
Students Against Apartheid
Restrictions on TV porn up to parents
by Dan Tobias
Various groups have been agitating for 
quite a while against pornographic cable 
television. There is a group which is present
ly attempting to ban such services as The 
Playboy Channel in Pennsylvania. The fact 
that the stuff that gets on the 
^ cable channels that they are rail
ed ing against is rather tame com
pared to the harder pom eas-V available on videocassette doesnt reduce 
the intensity of their crusade to get it 
banned.
They use as justification that we cant let 
our kids be exposed to pornography in the 
home! But this is an utterly ridiculous argu
ment. The services in question are premium 
pay channels. In order to get them, the 
subscriber must specifically request them, 
and pay a monthly fee for the privilege. 
Thus, a parent who doesnt wish his or her 
kids to see these programs has the simple op' tion of not subscribing to any cable chan
nel he or she disapproves of. In this case, 
there is absolutely no need to impose a ban 
which would affect all cable consumers 
across the state or country even if they are 
childless.
It seems like the intent of these would-be
censors is not only to keep cable pom away, 
from their own kids, something which they 
already have much more effective ways of 
doing as parents. Rather, they view por
nography as so inherently evil that the 
government must keep it away from all kids 
(and perhaps adults too), regardless of what 
the parents of the particular kids feel about 
the subject.
1 disagree with this premise. It is my opi
nion that if a child is brought up in a senSltive, intelligent manner, and taught to 
4 make his own judgments of things rather 
than uncritically accepting authority, and
learns rational facts rather than picking up 
irrational hangups about sex, then he (or 
she) will not be harmed by exposure to 
anything pornographic. It is only in the 
context of the present mainstream society, 
in which many children are inculcated from 
an early age, at home, school, church, and 
on the street, in all sorts of bizarre ideas 
about sex, that pornography can cause men
tal harm to a child.
As long as anything related to sex is 
regarded as forbidden fruit, which children 
and teenagers must hide from their parents 
and can expect to be punished if they are 
caught, these hangups will only be 
perpetuated. This is only accentuated by the 
hysterical reaction many parents have at the 
thought that their kids might see something 
X-Rated. A much more intelligent paren
tal reaction would be to explain to children 
that there is nothing intrinsically dirty 
about naked people or the act of sex 
depicted in movies or magazines; but that 
some pornography is violent or otherwise 
promotes unrealistic ideas which should not 
be taken seriously.
If the child has been taught from the 
beginning to evaluate critically anything he 
sees or reads, he should not have much trou
ble learning to distinguish the harmless 
erotica from violent pornography, and 
making an intelligent decision on the validi
ty of any ideas or lifestyles presented in any 
reading matter, whether pornographic or 
not.
Unfortunately, the educational backround 
recieved by most young people does not pro
mote this. Public schools teach blind obe
dience and confoimity; many fundamen
talist churches teach a rigid morality to 
reach a personal decision as to what is right 
or wrong (Moral Relativism, it is called by 
the Falwell types). These preachers intone
about how evil anything conected with sex 
(except within marriage) is, and oppose all 
efforts to educate children about pregnan
cy, VD, or any other real problem associated 
with sex, or about solutions such as birth 
control and VD testing. I feel that these fun
damentalists can cause more damage to the 
minds of young people through their 
religious brainwashing than any pornographer, so that if it were really a proper 
concern of the law to keep anything that 
might corrupt the youth off the airwaves, it 
would be the TV preachers who should be 
banned.
In closing, it should be up to the parent, 
rather than the state, what sort of restric
tions are placed on what a child can see or 
read. In my opinion, if a child is brought 
up well, no such authoritarian restrictions 
need be imposed by the parent; parental at
tentions would better be focused on the 
overall education and upbringing of the 
child rather than fussing about cable-TV 
erotica. At any rate, there is no cause for 
state intervention in this area.
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Correction
The November 5 article "Automation vs. Im
ports." by Lisa McAnany, quoted Ed Ghearing as 
saying, "We do not and never can absorb the 
gradual loss of jobs that will result. Our industry 
has to be competitive. Foreign industry is a much 
bigger threat than automation." The quote should 
have read: "We do not and never have opposed 
technological improvements. We feel we can ab
sorb the gradual loss of that will result..."
Thelartan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor.............Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor........................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor ... Anthony Datri 
Features Editor... Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor...........Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor.......Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor .............Michele Keane
Art Manager................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager....................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter
ACME Director ................Vijay Reddy
Editorial Asst.................Albrecht Powell
Asst. News Editor.........Carolyn Kelly
Asst. Entertainment Editor Bruce Kasrel
Asst. Art Manager.........Mark Kissner
Asst. Production Manager Don Gamble 
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities, CamegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 1521 S. 
Funded in part by the Activiiies Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Leslie Wiegle 
Sandra Hudak 
Hayley Rosenblatt 
Brian Davidson 
Bradley Sachar 
Michal Shuldiner 
Carolyn Kelly 
Patricia Sparrow 
Joanne Butman 
Amy Howes 
Douglas Cubell 
Suzy Dottor 
Lori Augustine 
Scott Daugherty 
Lisa Lightner 
Tom Denmeade 
Sara Rad
Shobana Balasubramaniam
Dorit Ronnen
Eric Gold
Lane Gordon
James Denburg
Bruce Kagan
Robert Cohen
Allen Cubeil
Ronald Howard
Gerald Bell
Steffen Bartschett
Debbi Smelson
John Yooca
Susan Matsko
Nancy DaleyLawrance Linn
Erin Elman
Don Conley
Timothy Yeh
Whitney Sample
Barry Walker
Joelle Kastner
Craig Schor
Rob Arnold
Mary Manning
Brian Davidson
Scott Bale
Leslie Griffin
Laura Schloss
Mona Kim
Andrea Sperling
Andrea Cichetti
Elissa Jiji
David Henderson
Paula Walsh
Kathleen Woomer
Tal Levin
Robert Fields
David Hersh
Sanford Greene
Evan Klein
Ellen Burns
Lisa Shroff
Natalie Capone
Sujatha Potti
Jennifer Guthart
Michelle Ewald
Tonya Williams
Rene Meyers
Christine Spadaro
Kim Orsborn
Leslie Diamondstein
Marva Makle
Carolyn Atwood
Lisa Kagel
"If, one day, American planes and American missiles are used to 
rain destruction on the people of Israel, Americans and surviving 
Israelis will be asking with great bitterness: Whose acquiesence 
made it possible? Who failed to fight it with voice 
and vote? Whose misplaced trust led to tragedy? 
-William Safire, 1981
PEACENOT PLANES
We, the undersigned students and faculty of Camegie-Mellon University, oppose the sale of America's most sophisticated weapons to Jordan or to any other nation that has not recognized Israel's right to exist and does not endorse the Camp David peace process.
Hilary Fitch 
Spencer Bauca 
David Boyle 
Susan Haugh 
Wayne Summers 
Tim Danison 
Joseph Seeger 
Hetai Nanavati 
Andy Robitshek 
James Carfagna 
Brett Silvius 
Larry Bach 
Daniel Cohen 
F. Servan- Schreiber 
Stephen Fenstermaker Teri Jones 
Martin Dennis 
Bill Choi 
Andy Tepper 
Lauren Weisberg 
David Skritoff 
Alice Seubert 
Phil Hollenberg 
Valerie Hay 
Michael Field 
Michael Lerner 
Leslie Williams 
Evan Klein 
Steven Katz Melissa Houston 
Marie Parette 
Kate Morgo Eric Singer 
Michael Chin 
Ira Andropoly 
Karen Daly 
Carol Goldburg 
Michael Lanxner 
Ben Celso 
Oren Rosenthal 
Keith Evans 
Debbie Barkun 
Georgia Sine 
Graham Potter 
Randal Susman 
Ed Mackey 
Ben Hebert 
Suzy Raginsky 
Geoffrey Citron 
Julia Rubin 
Patricia Fall 
Sarah Alexander 
David Steinberg 
Fred Rubie 
Pam Horn 
Neal Gliksman 
Eric Bergerson 
Cathy Rang 
Rebecca Neimark 
Deborah Charych 
Stephan Greene 
Todd Bernhard 
Stewart Levine 
Jodi Balkan 
Johanna Schwalbe 
Laura Wernikoff 
Julian Siegel 
Susy Siegel 
Andrew Shimp 
Jordan Aberman 
Robert Avoletta 
Angela Taylor
Jennifer Moore 
Wendy Boyd 
Lisa DeFade 
Gayle Abrams 
Oren Adar 
Paul Rosenberg 
Kurt Zentmaier 
Andy Rabin 
Donna Braverman 
Erin Johnson 
Jeffrey Cohen 
Jonathan Kurlander 
Drew Pardus 
J. Hasbrouck 
Marc Steinman 
Archie Bengzon 
Alex Koo 
Beryl Kravitz 
Mark Hollander 
Andrew Miranker 
Lisa Bernstein 
Jennifer Browner 
Bruce Fisch 
Tony Berkman 
Mark Sander 
Paul Reilly 
Saul Kaplan 
Jill Cassell 
Claire Schwartz Steve Weller 
Shep Bostin 
Raphael Jacobs Ira Jaslow 
Rachael Naismith 
Deanne Waitze 
Jacquelyn Quinn 
Bi Boling 
Debbi Tierno 
Chrisi Haretos 
Howard Melman 
David Bloom 
Saul Kravitz 
Mark Hirsch 
Laura Goldberg 
Doug Carey 
Liz Levine 
Jonathan Stewart 
Greg Phillips 
Jim Kohler 
Mike Frank 
Danny Wright 
Vicky Keston 
Sharon Halbedl 
Joelle Richter 
Paul Guilfoyle 
Janet Lee 
Meredith Wollins 
Susan Parkoff 
Drue Miller 
Joanne Filmer 
Cole Davisson 
David Miller 
Lauren Howard 
Susan Hymanson 
Michael Araya 
Mark Carr 
Thomas Hecht 
Jackie Yonek 
Mary Murphy 
Keith Saft 
Jeff Krieger 
Corinne Stoller
David Chamberlin 
Monica Bruckner 
Beth Wickert 
Michael Tortora 
Steven Harber 
Chi-Yoo Hih 
Ron Manila 
David Collier 
Brian Abeun 
David Levy 
Alice Seubert 
Joshua Yelon 
Peter Stern 
Chen Hamton 
Jason Shoubin 
Edward Miller 
Joseph Perrino 
Adam Kurland 
Beth Novitsky 
Kenneth Nentrexy 
Jon Zikoski 
Laura Stratt 
Craig Lessler 
Lisa Krutz 
Paul Boyer 
Jong Lee
Hemant Bharat Ram 
Stephen Kim 
Jeff Rohde 
Bruce MacLaren 
Rudi Halbright 
Bruce Kasrel David Smith 
Lambert Wixson 
Chris Hansen 
Gavin Williams 
Dan Hendel 
Yan Levin
Stephen Giamporcaro 
James Dickey 
Michelle Cunpta 
Jen Hsu 
Chad Wilson 
Daniel Freed 
Kevin DeGraaf 
Jay Sharger 
Mary Zeveney 
Maria Cosenza 
Jessica Pennington 
Jennifer Lam 
Rhonda Landy 
Amanda Cohen 
Ariel Roffman 
Brian Davidson 
Aejaz Danishmand 
Alison Gardner 
Romalisa Lorico 
Andy Philips 
Peter Jilem 
Richard Laub 
Steve Maybaum 
Donna Croop 
A. B. Slifko 
Steven Feuves 
Lynanne Carr 
Jeffrey Feinblatt 
Peter Rosenfeld 
Kristie Staton 
Michael Gehr 
Jonathan Koricke 
Barbara Weizenbaum 
Joanne Griggs
David Merrigan 
Doug Jones 
Alex Bacas 
Elisa Salasin 
John Huber 
David Timm 
Arjun Chatterjee 
Jill Dorson 
K. Jung 
Karen Schulz 
A. Stein 
Harry Printz 
Paul Rosenberg 
Neil Greenblum 
Suzanne Woolf 
Helene Newburg 
Jay Katz 
Lauren Berg 
Kara Tellerman 
Merrick Furst 
Andrew Mehalko 
Edward Victor 
Larry Stein 
Paul O'Leary 
Shashi Iyengar 
Chia Ming Chen 
V. T. Abraham 
David Goodwin 
Joseph Hensel 
Paul Graves 
Linda Warren 
Lee Garbowitz 
Ray Farbarik 
Pauline Berlin 
William Lusen 
Raphael Rosner 
Jon Blumenfield 
David Markley 
Allen Greenberg 
David Salomon 
Katherine Robinson 
Rhonda Keys 
Adam Hird 
Carter Humphrey 
Michele Osherow 
Sandra Samelson 
Paul Martin 
Jeffrey Haitro 
Dennis Morel 
Michael Send ref 
Mark Sobel 
Judith Siegel 
Michelle Meyer 
Niloufer Irani 
Harold Weisenbloom 
Amy Kenoe 
Michael Baren 
Elise Friedland 
Stuart Mahon 
Susan Warns 
Mark Samber 
Joshua Brodsky 
David Smith 
Erick Kauffman 
Cory Dworkin 
Marc Diamondstein 
Bruce Krulwich 
Lawrence Ziegler 
Brett Molotsky 
Israel Pinkas 
Sean Engelson 
Steven Gale
Elliot Jaffe 
Daniel Ritz 
Stuart Fox 
David Waitzman 
David Philips 
Dina Duhl 
David Timm 
Roel Levi 
Daniel Howell 
Meredith Bene 
Susan Cheskes 
Donald Starver 
Samantha Edwards 
Eric Begerson 
Elizabeth Gross 
Karen Litzinger 
Benjamin Krokosky 
Charlotte Schoeneman 
Tom Klempay 
Arnold Kamis 
James Talentino 
Nina Koros 
Justine Waldman 
Judith Holtzman 
Patricia Florig 
Rhonda Bovarnick Chris Keane 
A'Dora Phillips 
Norman Chigier Paul Rydzewski 
Ron Daubel 
Edgar Davidson Eric Zlnner 
Daniel Benst 
Marc Lowe 
William Yelle 
Jenifer Kubitz 
Cliff Sharpies 
Larry Bailey 
Victor Gordon 
Mindy Kanaskie 
Matthew Resher 
David Sokolow 
Tamara Schulz 
Thomas Prior 
Craig Nevius 
Douglas Lincoln 
Brian Stonestreet 
Scott Fertig 
Dave Howe 
Kris DeOld 
Bruce Thompson 
Charles Park 
Paul Cosentino 
Denise Visconti 
Rachel Keeler 
Eirene Yamamura
Copies of this ad will be 
presented to:
The Pennsylvania 
delegation in the Hlous 
of Representatives,
the two Senators 
from Pennsylvania, and
the President of the
United States.

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, I985The TartanPage 33
History Department takes small step for women
by Heather Newton
Recently The Tartan ran an article by 
Karen Gray, complaining about the 
maleness of CMU and, more specifically, 
the lack of womens study courses here.
Well get out your 3-d forms, everybody.
The history department is about 
to make one small step for 
womankind.
Next semester Dr. Anne Rose 
will teach a course on Women in American 
History, a look at how women have con
tributed to the development of our nation.
The main focus of the course will be on 
the lives of ordinary women, their work and 
family lives, says Rose. Then well look at 
the lives of some exceptional women, such 
as Elizabeth Kady Stanton and Sojourer 
Truth, to see how they fit into the context 
tweve established, and to see what their lives 
meant as examples to the ordinary women 
of their times.
Rose says shes glad to see renewed interest 
in womens history, which seemed to decline 
with the winding down of the womens move
ment itself.
I want students to walk away from the 
course with some appreciation of how
women have contributed to history Women in American History is a 9 unit 
something historians have traditionally ig- class and will meet MWF at 10:30. Register 
nored, she says. The impression people get for it by signing up in the History Depart
is that women were practically invisible, but ment on November 13 or 14. 
of course thats ridiculous. After all, can you Heather Newton is currently a senior maimagine a world without women? joring in History.
More people 
have survived 
cancer than 
now live in 
the City of 
Los Angeles.
We are winning.
You may find it surpris
ing that up to 60% of all 
cancers can be prevented. 
By avoiding excessive ex
posure to sunlight, by not 
smoking cigarettes, by not 
overeating and by follow
ing a diet high in fiber and 
low in fat.
AMERICANCANCERSOCIETY*
Please support the
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY
Why would a bright 
engineer or computer scientist 
want to be ~ JHb consultant?
Audley Webster is a telecommunica
tions engineer. His degrees in electrical 
engineering and business brought him 
offers from leading telecommunications companies and from the leading consulting firm, Booz*Allen & Hamilton. He 
chose Booz*Allen. I never imagined myself being a consultant, but Booz*Allen offered me bet
ter opportunities in telecommunications  the opportunity to develop telecommunications strategies for major 
corporations and then design their networks, the opportu
nity to study emerging technologies, perform feasibility studies and recommend transmission options. Youre fac
ed with a variety of situations here, so you build a skill base quickly. I was attracted by the flexibility and growth Booz*Allen promised.. .and 1 havent been disappointed.
Robin Will is a software engineer specializing in wargaming. His degree in computer science and personal interest in 
wargaming were ideal for Booz*Allens strategic defense practice. Robin had joined a hardware firm right out of 
school, but he soon tired of the routine. At a big hardware company, they want you to fit a mold and do a job, and it 
was obvious my job wasnt going to change. Booz-Allen is 
entirely different. Since joining the firm just over six 
months ago, Ive worked on a variety of challenging assignments concentrating on the design and imple
mentation of computer models that support wargaming. My work involves programming, modeling, 
even artificial intelligence. It may be an over-used buzz-word, but state-of-the-art clearly describes 
Booz* Allen.
Ask Audley, 
Robin and Debra
Debra Lee is an office systems specialist. Booz*Allen offered her the strong systems development and implementation assign
ments she wanted to tacklechallenges other companies couldnt match. I consi
dered a career with a computer manufacturer, but found their focus very narrow. I 
didnt want to be tied into a product, and 1 didnt want to 
be a technical support person. At Booz*AUen, youre in the mainstream, youre an integral part of the company. Youre in a position to make decisions and direct your 
career path. Booz*Allens reputation in information systems made the firm an easy choice. Every time I picked up an 
article on the subject, Booz*Allen was mentioned.
Audley, Robin and Debra each found challenging careers at Booz-Allen. Careers that capitalize on their engineering and computer-related skills. They found Booz*Allens 
diversity and strong technical and business orientation to 
provide unique advantages. But their work represents only 
a sample of the opportunities here. We have openings for entry level professionals in many exciting fields: telecommunications, military command and control, strategic 
defense initiative, space commercialization, office automation, to name just a few.
If you have a BS or MS degree in Electrical Engineering or Computer Science explore career opportunities with Booz* Allen. Sign up at your placement office to interview with our campus representatives on November 18,1985. 
Or write to: Ms. Melanie Lawrence, University Relations, Booz* Allen & Hamilton Inc., 4330 East West Highway, Bethesda, MD 20814.
BOOZ ALLEN & HAMILTON INC
Professional excellence.. .make a practice of it.
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 (412)687-1112
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care
PSST. . .
Gift Giving Confusion? 
Gift Certificates!
CMU Direct Extension 578-2999
V
Vacation travel 
521-7300
Business travel 
578-2999
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys,
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc 
delivered to your dorm.
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 pm. to Midnite 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiale Delivery Services, Inc.
SZhCHllAN
Alo w6-8way
ab events
Szechuan Gourmet ranks with 
best for Asian eating
 Tha Pittsburgh Pres*. July 11. 198S
Lemon Chicken................$^95
Home Special o fer
Chicken..........................................*595
EARLY BIRD SPECIALS
(Mon. thru Than. 4:00 pm - 6:00 pm)
With Main Dish in Menu
FREE Chicken Salad 
or Sesame Noodle
Nov. 1st tiU Dec. 1st 
Come and Try Our Double Specials!
709 BiNifonte St.
Shadyside 
(one Modi from WaHwt St)
683-1763
 Lunch 6 Dinner 6 Take-Out  Serving Your Favorite Cocktails
683-1763
open every 4av
sun
3
10MEATBALLS 
M Array star*
17
24
roads
6
13
20
27
ihurs
SOME UC IT HOT 
Jack Lanvnon and Tony
14JefMulr uoT Cvrwpa rhim or 
VICTOfWCTOnA
21
28
fri
A PASSAGE TO NDIA
1>C KJLLMG PB>S
15 M DANCEeea "tha Du*" Skfeo BaAroom 00
A VtW TO'A WLL
22BEVBIY HLLS COP
29
sat
COFFtBCUSE % LECTURES
16
23
30
CHC T3KC2/CAT3LC=
sCmpCumotuaack
anytime 12:00 to 2:00 
in Salads Plus 
EVERYONE WELCOME
I yFunded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Short Story Contest Open: Creative writers are 
invited to enter the 1986 Raymond Carver Short 
Story Contest sponsored by Humboldt State 
University. The winner will receive a $250 cash 
prize and publication in Toyon 86, Humboldts 
literary magazine. Submissions are limited to one 
unpublished, fictional story, not to exceed 25 
double-spaced pages. Two copies of the 
manuscript should be sent with the authors 
name, address and title of the story, typed on a 
cover sheet. Writers should also include two selfaddressed, stamped envelopes for notification of 
receipt of manuscript and announcement of win
ners and runners-up. Manuscripts will not be 
returned. The judge for the 1986 Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest is Charles Baxter, 
author and recipient of a National Endowment 
for the Arts (NEA) Grant and a Guggenheim 
Fellowship. The entry deadline is December 1, 
1985. Entry fee is $5 payable to the Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest. All entries should be 
mailed to Carver Contest, c/o Department of 
English, Humboldt State University, Areata, CA 
95521. For more information call (707) 826-3758.
Carnegie-Mellon Drama Department Needs 
You! Usher twice and you can see the play free. 
The plays are Odon Vbn Horvaths Tales from the 
Vienna Woods on November 20,21,22,23 and 
George Feydeaus One Acts on November 
13,14,15,16 and December 4,5,6,7. For more in
formation call 578-2407.
The 15th Annual Thanksgiving for Life Con
vention of the Nadonal youth Pro-Life Coalition 
will be held in Pittsburgh, November 29th thru 
December 1st at the Sheraton South Hills (across 
from South Hills Village). The Office of Justice 
and Peace of the organizations are co-sponsoring 
the event with the NYPLC. Hundreds of college 
and high school students from across the coun
try will attend the convention. Registration for 
the weekend is $15. For more information con
tact Mrs. Becker at 456-3075 or write to the Of
fice of Justice and Peace, 111 Blvd. of the Allies, 
Pittsburgh, 15213.
Classifieds
Needed: Teachers for Jewish religious schools! 
Subject: Hebrew language, religion, history, 
customs and ceremonies, music, dance, drama, 
etc. For further information call: Dr. Ronald A. 
Brauner, Director, The Hebrew Institute, 
521-1100.
SQ. HILL 1-2 BR Apt., compl kitchen, w/w, 
we pay heat, close to CMU and public transp., 
available immed., for more info call 421-4307.
ATTENTION FOREIGN STUDENTS!
Enrich your American Experience by par
ticipating in a program of International Mutual 
Education, conducted by the McKeesport Cam
pus of The Pennsylvania State University and 
sponsored by NAFSA. Visit classrooms in Elemen
tary and Secondary schools to talk about your 
home country. Your travel expenses will be paid. 
You may also receive a small honorarium. If in
terested, please call 462-6401 ext. 204 or write 
to: IME Project, The Pennsylvania State Univer
sity, McKeesport Campus  Continuing Educa
tion, McKeesport, PA 15132.
ATTENTION! Free hair permanent. Given by 
Jr. Designer as part of a design project. Needs to 
be given within the next few weeks. Only one 
available. Call 578-5962 for more information.
EXPERIENCED Babysitter needed for infant. 
Flexible hours. Anytime: day, night, or weekends. 
Munchies and rides provided. Call 521-7533.
Professional CARICATURES 9x12, of yourself 
or friends! Become your wildest fantasy! (ex. 
astronaut, superhero.) $4.00 b/w, $5.00 color. 
Send photo and check or cash to: Chris Liotta, 
Box 1375, 1060 Morewood Ave. Money back if not 
satisfied. Photo and finished art delivered im
mediately. For further info call 578-4420.
OVER 50 BRANDS OF AUDIO, VIDEO AND 
CAR STEREO EQUIPMENT. CONTACT HAL 
AT 683-3948 AFTER 6 PM.
Word Processing/Typing Services. Resumes, 
case studies, term papers, theses. Call 553-2410 
Mon/Fri $1 per page.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No 
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelopes: Success, POBox 470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Ruths Pathway for the Contemporary 
WomanBible Study on Crisis & Opportunity. 
Wed. in Nov. 12, 12:30pm, Doherty Hall 2122. 
Run by Lutheran Campus Ministry.
STUDENT ACTIVISTS Do you have political 
savvy? Are you concerned with the issues that af
fect the quality of life? Get involved with the 
CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT, the Na
tional Citizens lobby working on Toxic Waste and 
Water Quality. EOE. Call now! 765-3053.
PARTIES, PARTIES, PARTIES: WE HAVE 
EVERYTHING FOR YOUR PARTY AT 
PAPERMART. . OVER 10,000 SQUARE FEET 
OF FUN IN OUR PARTY SUPERMARKET. 
BAUM BLVD. AT MOREWOOD AVE. 
681-8900. . .STROLL DOWN MOREWOOD 
TO A WORLD OF FUN.
PARTY TIME FOR BIRTHDAYS, WED
DINGS, LUAUS, X-MAS PARTIES, NEW 
YEARS PARTIES AND MUCH MUCH MORE. 
YES, WE EVEN HAVE EYEGLASSES FOR 
YOUR HAMSTER AND
KNUCKLEMAN. . PAPERMART, 
MOREWOOD AVE. AND BAUM BLVD. 
681-8900. ITS A NICE WALK FROM CAMPUS. 
DECORATIONS. INVITATIONS, NOVELTIES 
AND FUN!
Miscellaneous
Bicycler Alert: If you are interested in bicycling 
cross country this 86 summer, please contact 
Margot at x4590 as I am looking for companions.
Reminder. Registration is on Wednesday, 
November 13 and Thursday, November 14.
Peace Vigil. A candlelight vigil in support of 
arms control and reduction will be held on the 
first day of the Reagan-Gorbachev Geneva sum
mit, November 19, from 5 pm to 8 pm outside 
in front of Skibo Hall. There will be speakers, 
music, and other entertainment. In case of 
precipitation or sub-freezing temperatures, the 
vigil will be held in the Skibo Ballroom from 6:30 
pm to 8:30 pm. Sponsored by the CMU Peace 
Alliance and the CMU Chaplains Association.
Halloween Costume Contest Winners. The
CMU Bookstore would like to thank all those who 
participated in and helped to make our 1985 
Halloween Costume Contest a success. The three 
prize winners were: Mary Jo Dowling, Most 
Original as an Acrylic Paint Tube, Kevin Dowl
ing, Funniest as a Carrot, and Alice Seubert, 
Prettiest as Little Bo-Peep. Congratulations!
Hey, wait a minute! Whats going on? A 
freshman and a Junior Class Council are already 
in place and functioning on CMU campus! Why 
has there not been a Sophomore and a Senior 
Class Council? Maybe its a plot. (Councils create 
and sponsor class events they have representa
tion on Student Senate and are eligible for Stu
dent Activities Fee Funding, pending approval.) 
What about your class? All seniors and 
sophomores who are surprised, shocked, or in
dignant at this blatant neglect of your rights call 
Eld Lilley immediately at x2075 about getting 
yourself on your class council. This is downright 
class discrimmationW Creative, enthusiastic, 
hyperactive or even leader-type people should call 
now. Clout is just a phone call away.
College Student Volunteers Needed for the Na
tional Youth Pro-Life Coalitions Thanksgiving for 
Life Convention to be held at the Sheraton South 
Hills on November 29th thru December 1st. 
Volunteers will serve as workshop moderators, 
hospitality guides or audio-visual aides for a 
three-hour time slot. Volunteers get free registra
tion (which normally costs $15) to the entire con
vention. For more information contact Rebecca 
Marshall at 624-8811 or write to Box 1291, 3990 
5th Ave., Pittsburgh 15213.
Events
Tuesday
Movies
Rhapsody in Blue, starring Robert 
Alda, Alexis Smith, Joan Lesli, Oscar Levant, 
Charles Cobum. A pleasant biography of the 
great composer George Gershwin. Gershwin's 
Rhapsody m Blue is played in its entirety. Pitts
burgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:50 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Recreation
Tai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercises. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 5 
pm. Free for students and faculty members.
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. 8:30 pm to 9 pm.
Clubs
Pittsburgh Go Group. GO is an ancient orien
tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 pm. 
Beginners welcome.
Student Senate Meeting. Skibo Wherrett Room,
7 pm. Everyone welcome.
CMU Computer Club. General Meeting. Topics 
to be discussed include: upcoming events, elec
tions for next semesteryou must be there to vote, 
pen session for suggestions for future club events, 
and items of information. Doherty Hall 1212, 7 
Pm. All are welcome to attend.
Lectures
The Genius of C.R. Macintosh, presented 
Thomas Howarth, University of Toronto. Spon
sored by the Department of Architecture. Wean 
Hall 7500, 8 pm.
The Role of Intergranular Phases in Ceramics,
presented Dr. David R. Clarke, IBM T.J. Wat
son Research Center. Presented by Metallurgical 
Engineering and Materials Science Staff. An in
formal discussions are held and refreshments 
available afterwards in Wean Hall 2325. Wean 
Hall 2325, 3 pm.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 17 for details.
Wednesday
Movies
Birdy, starring Nicolas Cage, Mat
thew Modline. Two young men become friends 
in the 60s, then go to war in Vietnam. One is 
obsessed with birds, and their relationship makes 
for a fascinating film. Rated R. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
One Acts, by George Feydeu. Presented by the 
Drama Department. Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. 
General admission $7, faculty $6, students and 
senior citizens $5.
Music
Choral Concert: Cameron and Chamber Choirs 
performing, Max Peterson conducting. Alumni 
Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Recreation
La Table Franaise, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
The Hebrew Table. Salads Plus, 12 pm to 2 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Swing Dance Party, with George Gee and his 
Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra. Harpers, One 
Oxford Center, 7 pm to 11 pm. Admission $5. For 
more information call 391-1494.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Orthodox Christian Fellowship, weekly meeting 
for Bible study and discussions. Skibo 39, 7 pm 
to 8 pm. Everyone welcome.
CMU Astronomy Club. Are you ready for the 
return of Haileys comet? Doherty Hall 2304.
Lectures
Improving the Performance of Robots,
presented by Professor W. See ring, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. Presented by the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering Guest Lecture 
Series. Coffee and doughnuts are served at 2:45
pm in Scaife Hall Lounge, Room 322. Scaife Hall 
Auditorium, 3:15 pm.
The Computation of Posterior Moments and 
Densities of Econometric Models using Monte 
Carlo Integration, presented by Herman K. van 
Dijk, National Bureau of Economic Research. 
Sponsored by the Department of Statistics 
Seminar. Adamson Wing, 4 pm.
Americas Armories: Architecture, Society and 
Public Order, 1880-1910, presented by Dr. 
Robert M. Fogelson, Professor of History and Ur
ban Affairs, Department of Urban Studies and 
Planning, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Sponsored by Program in Technology and Society. 
Porter Hall 125 C, 4 pm.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 17 for details.
Thursday
Movies
The African Queen, starring 
Katharine Hepburn, Humphry Bogart (Oscar 
Winner). Directed by John Huston. Romance and 
adventure going down an African river during 
World War One. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:SO pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Victor/Victoria. Doherty Hall. 6 pm, 8:30 pm,
11 pm. Admission $1.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 36The TartanNovember 12, 1985
Plays
One Acts, by George Feydeau. Presented by the 
Drama Department. Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. 
General admission $7, faculty $6, students and 
senior citizens $5.
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the Year. 
For more information call 624-4101.
Music
An Evening with Windham Hill, featuring Liz 
Story, Michael Hedges, Darol Anger and Mike 
Marshall. Presented ABConcerts and partially 
funded by student activities fees. Carnegie Music 
Hall, 7:30 pm. Admission $8:50 for general 
public, $5 for students with valid CMU ID. 
Tickets available at Skibo Information Desk and 
Pitt Student Union Ticket Office.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 pm. 
Free for students and faculty members.
Clubs
CMU Explorers Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 12, 8 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Lectures
Competing in the New Global Environment,
presented by John A. Young, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Hewlett-Packard Company. 
Sponsored by the 1985 Benjamin F. Fairless 
Memorial Lecture Series. Skibo Ballroom, 5:30 
pm.
Patents, Copyrights, and other Legal Issues,
presented by Arnold Silverman, patent lawyer 
and partner of Eckert Seamans, Cherin & Mellot. 
Presented by the Guest Lecture Series. Adamson 
Wing, 6:30 pm to 8:30 pm.
Aqueous Hydration of Biological Molecules: 
Free Energy Simulations, presented by David L. 
Beveridge, Professor of Chemistry at Junster Col
lege, CUNY. A joint Pitt/CMU Department of 
Chemistry Colloquium. University of Pittsburgh, 
ASHE Auditorium, Chemistry Building 12 B, 4 
pm.
How Much Control Do We Have Over Our 
Social Judgments? Presented by Dr. John Baugh, 
New York University. Sponsored by the Depart
ment of Psychology Colloquium Series. Coffee will 
be served before the lecture in the Psychology 
Lounge, Baker Hall 336 D. Adamson Wing, 4 
pm.
Strategic Portfolio Management, presented by 
Ron Kie: arsky, Director of Personal Trust Invest
ment at Pittsburgh National Bank. Sponsored by 
the CMU Investment Group. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm.
The CMU Peace Alliance will sponsor a talk by 
Rev. Alan Thompson, Executive Director of the 
National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. 
Baker Hall 125 C, 8 pm.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 17 for details.
How Can An Interest Inventory Help Me? The 
Strong Campbell Interest Inventory may help you 
make a tentative career choice, explore career op
tions within a field of study, or sort out doubts 
about a particular career choice. You may 
schedule a time to take the test and meet with 
a career counselor. Skibo 11, 11:30 am to 12:30 
pm or 4:30 to 5:30 pm.
Friday
Movies
E.T., The Extra-lerrestrial, star
ring Henry Thomas, Drew Barrymore. Directed 
by Steven Spielberg. A remarkable story about 
an E.T. accidentally left on Earth and the 
creatures attempts to get home. Rated R. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
James Bond: A View to a Kill. Doherty Hall,
6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm. Admission $1.
Modesty Blaise. A Joseph Losey Director Series. 
Carnegie Institutes Museum of Art Theater, 8 
pm. General admission is $3. Admission for 
members, students, and senior citizens is $2.50.
Plays
One Acts, George Feydeau. Presented by the 
Drama Department. Kresge Theatre, 8 pm. 
General admission $7, faculty $6, students and 
senior citizens $5.
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the Year. 
For more information call 624-4101.
Gilbert & Sullivans Ruddigore, presented by the 
Pittsburgh Savoyards. Bob Whitley is the general 
director and Rob Plotz is the stage director. An
tonian Hall, Carlow College, 3333 Fifth Avenue, 
Oakland, 8 pm. General admission is $7. Admis
sion for Senior Citizens & Students is $5. For more 
information and tickets call 422-5559.
Music
Doug Henning, will be at the Syria Mosque, 
7pm.
Graduate Recital: Sook Hee Bang, soprano. Col
lege of Fine Arts Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Recreation
AB Dance, with the Duz. Skibo Ballroom, 9 pm. 
Lectures
Becoming a Whole Woman: Balancing your 
Feminine and Masculine Characteristics, 
presented by Delores Ambrose, Advisor of Train
ing and Development at ALCOA and formerly 
Assistant Dean of SUPA. Skibo Wherrett Room,
12 pm. Admission to the luncheon is $4.50 for 
non-members and $3.50 for members. For more 
information about becoming a member, contact 
Andrea McDivett at x2996 or Marcy Zaragoza at 
x8818.
Saturday
Movies
Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome,
starring Mel Gibson and Tina Turner. The third 
in the Mad Max series. Lots of villains and chase 
scenes in this one. Rated PG-13. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
Ghostbusters. Doherty Hall, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm,
12 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafka's Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the Year. 
For more information call 624-4101.
One Acts, George Feydeau. Presented by the 
Drama Department. Kresge Theatre, 2 pm. 
General admission $7, faculty $6, students and 
senior citizens $5.
Gilbert & Sullivans Ruddigore, presented by the 
Pittsburgh Savoyards. Bob Whitley is the general 
director and Rob Plotz is the stage director. An
tonian Hall, Carlow College, 3333 Fifth Avenue, 
Oakland, 8 pm. General admission is $7. Admis
sion for Senior Citizens & Students is $5. For more 
information and tickets call 422-5559.
Music
Doug Henning, will be at the Syria Mosque, 8 
pm.
Junior Recital: Maria Rehnstrom, soprano; 
Robin Kuller, violin. Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Sports
Mens Cross - Country away meet. NCAA 
Eastern Regional Championship.
Community Events
Auditions. Talent scouts from Bush Gardens will 
be conducting its annual search for: singers, 
dancers, musicians, actors, variety artists, 
costumers, technicians, and stage managers. 
Audition performers should be at least 18 years 
of age and be available for full-time seasonal 
employment. Auditions are conducted on a firstcome, first-served basis. Audition presentations 
should be limited to 3 minutes, but performers 
should be prepared to present additional material 
upon request. Call-back auditions, required for 
some shows, will be held immediately following 
the scheduled audition. Auditions will be held 
from 12 pm to 5 pm at the Point Park College, 
Lawrence Hall. For more information call 
800-253-3302.
Sunday
Movies
Gigi, starring Lesli Caron, Maurice 
Chevalier, Louis Jordon, Hermione Gingold. Col
ettes charming tale of a young girl becoming a 
woman in tum-of-the-century Paris becomes a 
delightful musical and winner of five Oscars. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
Plays
Gilbert & Sullivans Ruddigore, presented by the 
Pittsburgh Savoyards. Bob Whitley is the general 
director and Rob Plotz is the stage director. An
tonian Hall, Carlow College, 3333 Fifth Avenue, 
Oakland, 3 pm. General admission is $7. Admis
sion for Senior Citizens & Students is $5. For more 
information and tickets call 422-5559.
Josephine: The Mouse Singer. Josephine, the 
Diva mounts, wants exemption from work, but 
the mouse judges say NO! Her songs are 
beautiful, but does anyone understand them? 
Does she? Based on Franz Kafkas Josephine the 
Singer, or the Mouse Folk. Recipient of the 
prestigious OBIE Award for Best Play of the Year. 
For more information call 624-4101.
Music
Albert Collins, renowned Texas blues guitarist, 
The Master of the Telecaster, and his touring 
band, The Icebreakers, will be performing for 
one night only. Collins recently appeared with 
George Thorogood and the Delaware Destroyers 
at the Live Aid Concert in Philadelphia. He has 
been awarded numerous honors from the Inter
national Blues Foundation, including Best Male 
Blues Artist, Best Blues Instrumentalist, and Best 
Blues Album of the Year, for the 1983 release, 
Dont Lose Your Cool. Three of his albums have
been nominated for Grammy Awards. Collins new 
album, Showdown!, a studio project with Johnny 
Copeland and Robert Cray will be released 
November 15. The Decade, 223 Atwood, 10:30 
pm to 12:30 am.
Stryper, will be at the Syria Mosque Ballroom,
7:30.
Lectures
Spirituality in the Writings of St. John, 
presented by Brother Elliot Maloney, O.S.B., 
S.T.L, Ph.D., Chairman of Religious Studies 
Dept., St. Vincent College and Professor of New 
Testament Studies, St. Vincent Seminary. A ques
tion and answer period will follow the discussion. 
Sponsored by the Oratory. The fifty minute 
discussion will be held at the auditorium of the 
University of Pittsburghs Graduate School of 
Public Health Building, 5th Ave. at DeSoto St., 
Oakland, 11 am.
Community Events 4
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. Sponsored by 
Student Affairs and the Counselling and Student 
Development Center in Morewood Gardens, E 
Tower, x2922. Tutoring: Calculus Pre, I, II, III 
in Porter Hall 126 A; Physics in Porter Hall 126 
B; Chemistry in Porter Hall 225 B; English as a 
second language in Baker Hall 135 B; Economics 
in Porter Hall 226 B; Introduction to Computing 
in Wean Hall 5415; Financial Accounting in 
Porter Hall 226 C; Academic Writing Problems 
in Baker Hall 235 B. 7 pm to 10 pm.
?
Sleeping Bag Weekend. Prospective students in
terested in the College of Fine Arts visit our cam
pus. Their registration takes place in the Wher
rett Room from 3 pm to 5 pm.
Auditions. Talent scouts from Bush Gardens will 
be conducting its annual search for: singers, 
dancers, musicians, actors, variety artists, 
costumers, technicians, and stage managers. 
Audition performers should be at least 18 years 
of age and be available for full-time seasonal 
employment. Auditions are conducted on a first-^ 
come, first-served basis. Audition presentations 
should be limited to 3 minutes, but performers 
should be prepared to present additional material 
upon request. Call-back auditions, required for 
some shows, will be held immediately following 
the scheduled audition. Auditions will be held 
from 12 pm to 5 pm at the Point Park College, 
Lawrence Hall. For more information call 
800-253-3302.
-
Monday
Movies
The Garden of the Fini-Continis,
starring Dominique Sanda, Helmut Berger. 
About an aristocratic Jewish family in WWII Italy 
who ignore signs of being sent to a concentration 
camp. An Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film. 
Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95. 
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
November 17 for dettiils.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous itenf, or event in The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com
puter mail to TT99@ TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next week's issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the , 
addresses listed above.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University Symphony Orchestra ConcertWerner Torkanowsky, Conductor 
Hebrides Overture, Opus 26 by Mendelssohn Steel Symphony by Leonardo Balada Symphony No. 5 in c minor Opus 67 by Beethoven
8 p.m., Wednesday, Nov 20 Carnegie Music Hall
Carnegie-Mellon University TrioHarry Franklin, piano 
Werner Torkanowsky, violin 
George Sopkin, cello 
Assisting Artist: Isaias Zelkowicz, viola 
Trio in B flat Major, Opus 97 (Archduke) by Beethoven 
Quartet in G Minor, Opus 25 by Brahms 7 p.m., Sunday, Nov 24 Carnegie Music Hall 
Champagne reception follows.
LECTURES
Andrew Carnegie: 
Right Man, Right Time 
by Dr. Harold Livesay Author of Andrew Carnegie and the Rise of Big Business Chairman, History Department 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
11:30 a.m., Thursday, Nov. 21 Scotland Yard, Skibo
Andrew Carnegie: A Millionaires Motivationsby Dr. Peggy Farrah 
Author of "Andrew Carnegie: A Psychohistorical Sketch Staff Development Instructional Leader 
Hempfield Area School District 4:30 p.m., Monday, Nov. 25 
Scotland Yard, Skibo Receptions follow both lectures.
Andrew Carnegie 
Sesquicentennial
Celebration
1985
All Events Open to the Public Free of Charge
Sponsored by Carnegie-Mellon University
Andrew Carnegie Illustrations
College of Fine Arts, Third Floor9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday to Friday
Nov. 18 to 25
Mel Bochner Paintings and Drawings 1973-1985
Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery
407 S. Craig St.10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Tuesday to Friday
11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturday 
1 to 4 p.m., Sunday Nov. 2 to Dec. 22
Mel Bochner DrawingsHewlett Gallery 
College of Fine Arts11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday to Friday
Noon to 4 p.m., Saturday 1 to 4 p.m., Sunday 
Nov. 2 to Dec. 22
Andrew Carnegie, the Writer
Fine and Rare Book Room 
Hunt Library 1:30 to 4:30 p.m., Monday to Friday 
Through Nov. 30

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Zurk
HEY ZURK, MY MON WANTS ME TO 
GO PICK* TURKEY OUT AT THE 
TURKEY FARH FOR THANKS GIVING.am TO COHE?
by Nabil Liumang
"^THERE (T IS!1 NOW WE AVETO PICK 
THE BEST TURKFi Wf CWi FIND./
Murray the Bearby Jimbo Voorhees
Poindexter
Spe cc y*5 applicaowJ
RP Al^TAlce^...J DON'T
want to fce 
eftA02A^ep/
by Don Beyer
/WBJL, ir toons
<W evc^pr 
#| rw!6>
^PA^HerriV
>-------------
 WJUU? HAVe
UCISfD IT OfF 
SOT IT WA6 
POO/MATE 
ty'PMETTI
'$/17
The Top Floor
On th top floor, of 41J
hDhPg2Tg nNvbD1s, 1h1 h 2h98P N5B5 yARO555
by M
...4 VOi/A/6 At AW A/AMDLarry ms just Auxuilar
mo VIa/6 Inn OF HIS POSSESSIONS 
ItfTO HIS NEW SWINGIN' PAD.
y"nlothl "mveS ui ntkar bL byd gbcd spL.MbL,Pc-G 
p.sDB gs FLLV bcd FycgbFO, 
ps6 , SALE,...
TTTIhi sue:IsN IwwIhFu 
I iattrEtmS: IhpISIrro 
Edrl STRAWfeRW DAQUIRI FOR. THIS V6R\ SAMf FAITHFUL
006...

---------------------------------------------------

November 12, 1985The TartanPage 39
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh & Co.
Irne secou aocourrFR
pmavt b" C abuet
JO 6,T HV ^OUfV.'
Nws
J
tmmmi
Vi.V>VVVYij
XwXw^^V.V.VAV.VV.V.V.V.V.V.V.V.W.VJ
KvXvXv^^
kPLER5E IIUSERT V7UR CRRO 
PIR&METIC STRIP 00tiitU*
U)JL HeTtCT ,0*5.
'A
A Feu m\OUTff^> LATFK
DO VOU DESIRE PfU OTHER 
7WflisflCTiaiu?
^
veUT FR57TY 
SrKTHtV. UOOJ JUST 
,1D *7" KHV MUD
rtv Kec&pr.
YAmm
Give /TT rtf!! 
/
PLBBSE REmoUL YOUR CRRD"
BLOOM COUNTY
PONT PO
IT, OPUS...cosmic
smews
MUTILATION/
IFHALLEY'S(mens HTIm
WHOMPMEONTHE
HEAP, I AT LEAST
want to pie LOOKING/nrmcnvB...\
JUST THNK...HAEE YOU eGRmvep 
what barbra streisahp
WOULPBEMTHA
ilItt Nose?
A YES,
NOfimf BUT ANI firmarne
NO0OPY.
AMETAPHOR YOU CAN UII
mKe ms ecI&p lc Arm 
icpceIpKr "jofiN &Kt.ri
IFTVEEVER FA/NT ANP 
HEMP ONE. BOPYWORK
I CLINIC. I
t
provided by SDCStudent
Dormitory
Council
Inkspots
Oh, dont mind him, he just doesnt like cold pizza.
of cotfRse vou
/CHOtJ, THtS MEAUS
omiI
by Berke Breathed
/?
h
AY0SH. YOU PIP
PON TK. iKO I
,USs wUM LA A/s 
FFwUL, HUEY,S 
'IPrO L,W aK'Tn 
oKeJ &tPrP&hNNiiid
by Kurt Shaw
WELL?wem
mPMES 
ALL OFF r
THEY'RE
OFF.
-WERE US CONFUSION..
SO MUCH... CONFUSION.. _ 
THEY ..THEY ALMOST 
CHOPPEP THE ENP OFF OF 
MS. PEIECOPTS NOSE ANP 
AVE PAE BOSOM 
IMPLANTS..nI
THOSE 
BUTCHERS! 
COME IN... LAYPOWN...
HOW
PO IM
FEEL.
FAINT.. 
WOOZY... 
BUT VERY 
ATTRACTIVE.
HOW PO 
I LOOK'' 
POI LOOK 00P/
'bOOP'
IS A VERY 
SUBJECTIVE 
TERM.
AMI
HANP50ME / 
BREAIHmiN&A 
AMI A 
MAbNIFCENT 
SEXUAL 
POWERHOUSE \!(
mi, YOU'RE~
UH..
fdVETINb."RHETM''cm
m
A NEW NOSE / 
I FEEL f&tr ' 
RENEMJEP' 
REBORNZ\
JLLZ.W fc5 --
T
HEY, SiZZLM'MAMA, 
COME ON OVER HERB 
ANP 1ST THIS 
LOVESLAPtfiTOR 
(XNCE N YOUR FIRESMORE SELfCONFtPENT, 
TOO/

ss
PORTNOY.. 
PIP YOU HEAR 
THE LATEST'
ial
Ah/M* .
HRH..J
V
\E HTERRUPT THIS 
FEATURE TO EXPLAN THE 
VARIOUS OBJECTS 
WHICH SEVERAL REAPERS 
HAVE NOTKEP 
CLEVERLY 
OBSCURNO THE 
SURSCALLY ALTEREP 
NOSE OF ONE 
OF THE PRINCIPAL 
CHARACTERS...
\k AbAN MERRUPT 
VtS FiAMAE TO AMOUNCL
OpIO STAtrrm llcpIOctTb
THERE MU. NO LONbER 
BE AMY EFFORT 
10 CONCEAL THE RESULTS 
OFTHEFRmcm. 
CHARACTER'S RECENT 
NOSE JOB WTTH 
VARIOUS CAREFULLY 
PLACEP OBJECTS.
THE US. SENATE HAS 
PETEMNEP THATTHE (jRAPHK. 
PERCTION OF RAPtCAL COSMETIC 
B0PYSUR6ERY. LIKE OBSCENE 
ROCK MUSC, CAN POLLUTE 
THE MNPS OF YOUNb PEOPLE 
ANP LEAP 10 WIPESPREAP 
HEPONISM AMP SECULAR 
HUMANISM. THUS. THE 
SEIF-CENSORSHIP.
WE NOW RETURN TO 
TO THE HILARIOUS CCMC 
ALREAPY N PROGRESS
1M COMC WU NO LON6ER 
SUCCUMB TO THE PEMANPS OP 
1HE PARENTAL-ACTION bROUPS 
WHKH SEEK 10 PROTECT 
AMERICAS YOUTH FROM 
VtSNNbTHS mCAEASNSLY 
COMMON FORM OF SHOCKMb 
PERSONAL EXPRESS**
UK-tS HOT RLMBffS PROD
WE NOW RETURN TO 
1HE UNCEMSOREP PANEL 
ALREAPYB! PROGRESS...
rwm? nor njRtmtto' mm 
mmzil emy
I
HM.

---------------------------------------------------

Word Processing 101.
Print
fdit Search Formal Font Style
tetters In My father.
Opfr'iK-.
Close
Sac
Saue fis... 
Page Se tap.
11 si [S''inch
Dear Dad...
Things are going OK here. 
Could you possibly send more 
money?
NOW Available at the CMU Computer Store:
Macintosh 512 K $1,560 Image writer $430
Macintosh 128K $1,160 LaserWriter $4,500
upgrade to 512 K $410 image writer II* $460
Extra Drive $350
*not yet auailable
There is a grim reality of college life that you 
may or may not be acquainted with.
T\ping. No, make that hours of typing. Precisely 
why you should consider a Macintosh
With programs like MadMite and Microsoft 
Word, you can compose, edit, move paragraphs, and 
change type sizes and styles with one finger. Which 
can come in very7 handy. (Especially if thats the
way you type. ) And thats just one example of how 
Macintosh helps students work smarter, quicker and 
more creatively.
The good news is, with Macintosh you dont 
have to know anything about computers 
to use one. The better news is, you dont 
have to know anything about white 
out, either. WW*
 BKS Apple Computer. Inc Apple, the Apple logo and Macante are trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh Laboratory Inc and is being used with its express permissionMicrosoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation
