The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 4, October 2, 1984.
photo by Mike Pilewski
Older students are becoming more prevalent on campus. See related story, profiles 
of two such scholars, on page 10.
Professori sues CMU
Rosenberg claims standard pay raise denied
more in one-half of a semester in Rosenbergs 
Shakespeare class than [he] would have in 
one semester of the H&SS class. Another 
said that Rosenberg made Drama Lit in
teresting. However, Rosenberg has also been 
described as boring .
The Faculty Review Board s report states 
that this a problem of Academic Freedom: 
the amount of control the head of a depart
ment can exert after putting a professor in 
charge of a course or program. The FRB 
also commented that Professor Shapiro 
acted in a manner most inconsistent with 
good administrative behavior.
The FRB recommended that a higher 
administrative authority, external to the Col
lege of Fine Arts, must make a real effort 
to ameliorate the situation. The matter was 
taken to Warner Hall, and Rosenberg says 
he got no satisfaction from Vice President
Pat Crecine. The case was then taken to 
court.
Rosenberg is suing CMU for $5753.69 for 
deprivation of pay increases, and $20,000 for 
intentional infliction of emotional distress.
Rosenberg stressed that the main purpose 
of his lawsuit is for principle and that his 
suit for emotional distress is more impor
tant. The relationship of the administra
tion to faculty and students is bad and I 
would like to publicize it. Maybe the facul
ty in the future wont be treated like this, 
commented Rosenberg.
When asked for a comment, Midani said, 
This is a case in court, I cannot make any 
statement about it.
Shapiro was unavailable for comment.
Crecine could not be reached.
Rosenberg has been teaching at CMU for 
22 years and is seven years from retirement.
Tartan buys typesetter
By DON EGGERT
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan has just acquired a new 
$38,000 typesetting machine. A Compugraphir MCS typesetter has replaced the 
old AM Varityper, providing many advan
tages for The Tartan and its readers.
The decision to purchase a new machine 
was made over the summer by Associate 
Dean of Student Affairs Lois Cox, Tartan 
Managing Editor Mark Levine, and Tartan 
Editor-In-Chief Ric Medrow. A demonstra
tion of the Compugraphic machines 
simplicity convinced them of its value. Ac
cording to Levine, employee problems and 
rumors of corporate instability were addi 
tional factors in the decision.
Asked to comment on the effect of the pur
chase, Medrow stated, The major advan
tage of the new machine is that production 
will be more efficient, with more production 
options for the editors. I think readers will 
see a better newspaper as a result. An im
mediate change is this issues return to 
baskerville typeface; because of problems 
with the AM typesetting machine, text and 
captions have been printed differently in the 
last two Tartan issues.
In addition to providing many new produc
tion features, the MCS typesetting machine
is much easier to operate. Typesetter Kathie 
Sitter commented, Working on the new 
typesetter is so easy, its impossible to make 
mistakes.
The new typesetting system includes 2 
work stations, disk drives, main processor, 
typesetter, printer, and a previewer for see
ing copy before it is printed. The $38,000 
cost will be partly subsidized by surpluses 
from The Tartans last two annual operating 
budgets, with the remainder being paid in 
annual installments over the next six years.
In this issue
News
ATO gun incident ................page 2
Election debates .................page 3
Features
New clubs .............____ page 9
Senior gift.........................page 9
Entertainment
Soldiers Story ...................page 13
Pointer Sisters ............... page 14
Sports
Tartan victory .....................page 15
WRCT expands ................ page 15
Editorial
Birnbach's book......... page 20
iy PAULINE WEN
Tartan Contributing Editor
James Rosenberg, a tenured CMU drama 
jrofessor, is currently suing Carnegie-Mellon 
Jniversity for a total of $25,753.69. 
Rosenberg claims that Mel Shapiro, head of 
he drama department, Akram Midani, 
lean of the College of Fine Arts, and the 
3MU administration have denied him a 
tandard pay raise and stripped [him] of all 
his] classes except one, because of incidents 
:onceming the New Play Festival, dating 
[jack to April, 1982.
The New Play Festival was planned as an 
Lnnual two week event to allow student 
playwrights to write, direct, and perform 
heir own plays. The festival is closed each 
[ear with an awards ceremony and the Bud 
rorkin (monetary) awards.
According to Rosenberg, in April 1982, 
le and David Ball, another CMU drama 
Ircfessor, chose thirteen plays to be performId in the festival, despite the fact that the 
[lays, as a whole, were not as of high a qualiL as these performed the previous year. Both 
losenberg and Ball agreed that CMU was 
In educational institution, and that the 
Istival was an educational experience. 
losenberg contends that he and Ball 
iiscussed their plans for the festival with 
fciapiro before continuing with their 
reparations. He went on to say that a few 
Jays after commencement of the festival, he 
ceived a phone call from Midani, quesoning his teaching and denouncing the 
uality of the plays. Shapiro sent Rosenberg 
similar note. Rosenberg described some of 
Be plays as weak, but said that three or 
Bur were pretty good and three have gone 
 off-broadway.
H in May, 1982, an article appeared in the 
ttsburgh Post-Gazette stating that 
osenberg had offered to resign his post as 
ad of the playwriting program in the 
Jama department because of Shapiros 
ndling of the Bud Yorkin awards. In the 
tide, Shapiro was quoted as saying the 
one [of the plays] warranted full recognijf>n of the $5000 prize money. Instead of 
ing the prizes as planned$2500 for first 
ce, $1500 for second place, and $1000 for 
rd place, Shapiro gave three equal awards
of $1000 each. He also cancelled the awards 
ceremony which were to have concluded the 
festival, saying that such ceremonies create 
a circus atmosphere. Before offering to 
resign, Rosenberg addressed a letter to 
Shapiro criticizing Shapiros actions, and 
made the letter public to the Drama Depart
ment. The letter stirred publicity within 
CMU, as well as outside of the school.
In the summer of 1982, Rosenberg was in
formed that he would not receive a pay raise 
for the 1982-1983 year, and that his class load 
would be reduced to two sections of Drama 
Literature, a lower level drama course. This 
also meant that Rosenberg was no longer in
volved in the playwriting program.
Since then, there has been an exchange of 
meetings and letters from outside as well as 
within CMU, expressing a wide range of dif
fering opinions. There has been no recon
ciliation between Rosenberg and Shapiro. 
Rosenberg received no pay raise for the 
1983-84 year and received a two percent in
crease for the 1984-85 year. The problem 
was taken to the Faculty Review Board 
(FRB) for resolution in January, 1984, with 
no success.
In the FRBs report, Shapiro stressed that 
the question of Rosenbergs pay raise had 
been decided before the events surrounding 
the play festival. Midani and Shapiro later 
contended that the absence of a pay raise 
was due to Rosenbergs incompetent 
teaching and his lack of contributions to his 
own professional advancement and the 
reputation of this Department and college 
through publication and other professional 
activities.
According to the FRBs report, one former 
Drama Department head commented that 
Rosenberg appears to have no enthusiasm 
for teaching ... students found him ... not 
caring about them, unresponsive to their 
problem, and bored with them [and] what 
he had to teach them. The same depart
ment head also is quoted as saying that 
Rosenberg has all the credentials [and] is 
extremely well informed on the subject of 
theatre..
Students have described Rosenberg as in
telligent and a good teacher. One 
playwriting students said that he learned
photo by Mike Pilewski
euing manager Jill Qelland shows Joe Hasper the fine points of using the new 
Pugrphic typesetting machine.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 2, 1984
You 're about to make a very impor
tant decision Where should you begin 
your engineering career? You want to 
be challenged and work in a stimulat
ing environment You want to work 
fora company that will recognize your 
contributions.
Where will you go? A good choice 
would be Martin Marietta Denver 
Aerospace 
Martin Marietta 's matrix organiza
tion will provide you unusual flexibility 
in determining your career path and 
accomplishing your personal goals 
Here, your talents will be recognized 
Your contributions will be rewarded 
In addition, you'll often be chal
lenged by some of the most interesting 
assignments available in space and 
defense systems 
For example, we accepted NASA's 
challenge to design and develop a 
backpack propulsion system which 
would accurately and safely move 
astronauts through space without the 
use of a tether Fifteen years later, on 
February 7.1964. the Manned Maneu
vering Unit was successfully tes'.ed 
This paved the way for the Solar Max 
repair mission in April 84 Future 
applications of the MMU are now 
being considered
The MMU is just one of many 
responsibilities we have on the Space 
Shuttle program And the Shuttle 
program is one of hundreds of long
term projects you may experience at 
Martin Marietta Aerospace.
We also have opportunities avail
able in Baltimore. Maryland; Orlando. 
Florida: New Orleans. Louisiana: and 
at Vandenberg AFB on the central 
California coast.
Now that you're about to step out 
into the world, consideran engineer
ing career at Martin Marietta Denver 
Aerospace
See ear representative on campus Octobers
After interviewing with our repre
sentative. pick up our full color 
calendar poster of the Manned 
Maneuvering Unit (pictured here)
If unable to interview at this time, 
please send your resume to Martin 
Marietta Denver Aerospace College 
Relations Department. P O Box 179. 
Mail #L1312 Denver CO 80201
Martin Marietta is an Affirmative 
Action Employer actively seeking the 
Handicapped and Veteran 
U S Citizenship is required
GRADUATMGENGMEERS, 
WHEN YOU STEP OUT INTO 
THE WORLD, 
YOULL WANT TO WORK 
WITH THE BEST 
TECHNOLOGY AVAILABLE.
photo by Peter Rosenfeld
Dr. Joseph Kadane, named to five-member National Science Foundation ethics 
committee.
CMU professor named to ethics committee
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan Asst. News Editor
CMU statistics and social science professor 
Joseph B. Kadane has been named to the 
National Science Foundations Advisory 
Committee on Ethics and Values in Science 
and Technology (EVIST). According to 
Kadane, the newly established, five-person 
committee receives proposals from resear
chers presenting projects related to questions 
of ethics and values in science and 
technology. The committee evaluates these 
proposals and makes its recommendation as 
to which projects will receive Foundation 
funding.
Kadane is also the principal investigator 
of a project, "Toward a More Ethical Clinical
Trial, a one-hundred fifty>thousand dollar 
grant sponsored by EVIST and the National 
Endowment for the Humanities. Under this 
grant, physicians, lawyers, philosophers and 
statisticians are examining the merits and 
problems of designing medical experiments 
that will better protect the interests of the 
patient.
Kadane explained that the pilot study of 
the case, to take place at Johns-Hopkins 
Medical School, deals with anesthesiologists 
interest in treatments for hypertension, or 
high blood pressure. The study will examine 
the effectiveness of two drugs in reducing 
hypertension in a sample of 60 to 80 pa
tients. According to Kadane, which drug 
works better will be judged in the sense of
bringing [the blood pressure] down quickly 
without reducing it too far.
Part of the legal work covered by the grant 
will be wording of an informed .consent 
statement that will inform patients of this 
technique, according to Kadane.
Kadane first wrote on the subject of ethics 
in science in 1978. He expects the trial at 
Johns-Hopkins to be over by next summer. 
At that point, he is hoping to pull the 
research together into a book, which he 
estimates would take another year to 
complete.
Kadane, a CMU faculty member since
1971, is a Fellow of the American Statistical 
Association , the Institute of Mathematical 
Statistics and the Royal Statistical Society.
Other members of the EVIST committee 
are: Rosemary Chalk, Program Head, Com
mittee on Scientific Freedom and Respon
sibility, American Association for the Ad- j, 
vancement of Science; Clifford Grobstein 
Program on Science, Technology and Public 
Affairs, University of California; Douglas E. 
MacLean, Center for Philosophy and Public 
Polocy, University of Maryland; and Donald 
Warwick, Harvard Institute for Interna
tional Development.
Unidentified man flees after 
threatening A TO brothers
By DON EGGERT
Tartan Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Police Department is still 
searching for a suspect accused of pointing 
a gun at the brothers of Alpha Tau Omega 
fraternity during an incident that occurred 
several weeks ago.
According to the official campus police 
report of the incident, filed on the evening 
of Friday, September 7, a car pulled up on 
Forbes Avenue outside ATO at 8:25 pm. In
side were a white male driver, a white female 
passenger, and four children, two black and 
two white, in the back seat. The woman got 
out of the car and shouted at the brothers 
on ATOs porch,...the next time you look at 
my husband youll have to go through me.
Words were exchanged, with the brothers 
reportedly avoiding derogatory comments. 
At that point the driver reached into the 
glove compartment and pulled out a 
revolver. He then exited from the car on the
drivers side and brandished the gun at the 
fraternity.
The brothers on the porch scattered for 
cover, and one alerted the fraternitys presi
dent, Bill Ruhe. The campus police were 
called, and an alert was relayed to Pitt
sburgh police. However, the suspects fled 
north on Morewood Ave. before city or cam 
pus police arrived.
CMU Director of Security Robert Fadzen 
stressed that the brothers at ATO apparent-, 
ly did nothing to provoke the suspect. Their 
claims of innocence were verified by Bill 
Hinchey, a first-year student in GSIA who 
witnessed the entire incident.
The driver and his car, a blue-greet 
1970-1973 Chevy Impala, were spotted pass 
ing the fraternity twice the next day. Dur 
ing one of the sightings, the cars licenst 
plate number was positively identified ai 
JDG-679. The license was registered to i 
firm on Butler Street.continued on page?
__________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

______________
October 2, 1984The TartanPage 3
CMU debate series examines election issues
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Election 84  Critical Choices is a 
debate series examing issues raised by the
presidential campaign at CMU on October 
10. 16. and 25.
Topics include Religion in Politics, 
Weapons in Space, and Americas Economic
Future, respectively. The speakers will not 
represent the candidates, but their 
arguments will reflect and suggest political 
opinions.Richard M. Cyert, president of CMU, ap
pointed a search committee to provide issueoriented programming for the community 
and to promote serious discussion of issues 
raised by the campaign. The committee, 
chaired by Dr. Robert Coulam of Social 
Sciences, is also composed of Dr. David 
Kaiser of History, Scot Farrow of Engineer
ing and Political Science, and Tom Romer 
of GSIA.These will be serious debates, not cam
paign debates, said Coulam. Six very 
serious people, especially well qualified to 
discuss their issues, will provide expert 
discussion. We expect this to be interesting 
as well as entertaining.
The first debate, on October 10, will 
discuss religion in politics. Barney Frank 
(D-MA) will speak from a liberal viewpoint. 
He is a prominent spokesperson for religious 
politics in the U.S. House of Representatives.
The conservative side will be represented 
by Cal Thomas, Vice President of Moral
Majority. . _____Both sides have discussed this issue before
in public, so we can expect the debate to be 
fairly focused and substantive, says Coulam.
Experts will debate the use of weapons in 
space on October 16. This is the single main 
aspect concerning nuclear weapons and 
strategy in the 1984 presidential election. We 
now face a choice, clearly indicated by the 
current candidates, said Coulam. General
James Abrahamson, Director of the Strategic 
Defense Initiative in the Office of the 
Secretary of Defense, former head of the 
Space Shuttle Program, is an advocate of the 
Strategic Defense, or Star Wars Program.
Opposing arguments will be given by Ad
miral Noel Gayler, a retired Navy Admiral, 
formerly the Commander in Chief for 
Pacific Forces and director of the National 
Security Agency. Currently he is chair of the 
American Committee on East-West Accord, 
a group of distinguished Americans oppos
ing the Strategic Defense Program and the 
Reagan Administration.
Experts will debate the future course of 
American Economics on October 25. Barry 
Bosworth, a Senior Fellow at Brookings In
stitution and former director of President 
Carters Council on Wage and Price Stabili
ty, will present a liberal point of view.
Bosworth will be opposed by conservative 
Jerry Jordan, currently Dean of Manage
ment at University of New Mexico and 
member of President Reagans 1981-1982 
Council of Economic Advisors. Government 
intervention and the role of public and 
economic policies will be discussed.
The issues debated [in the Election 84  
Critical Choices Series] are historically join
ed, and at the same time joined in this 
series, says Coulam. These are issues on 
which there is a clear choice of candidates. 
The pros and cons will represent both sides. 
We do hope students will show interest. The 
series is free and will take place at 8:00 in 
the Skibo Ballroom.
Mon. Fri. 99
Lewis'
Creative 
Hair Team
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside 
682-4063
Sat. 95
Question: What student organization 
takes money which you pay to CMU and 
gives it right back to you?
The answer?
$4.00 OFF
ALL CUTS
(Reg. $14  $16)
^w/coupon Oct. 1st  Oct.20thj
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
Student Senate.
We put your Activities Fee 
money to good use.
sponsored by Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 2, 1984
Subcommittee faces changes
House Education-Labor group loses members
WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)
College programs may be more vulnerable 
than ever to budget cuts in the next year 
because several key congressmen will be 
missing from House education committees, 
sources say.
The missing congressmen all played im
portant roles in staving off many of Presi
dent Reagans proposed student aid cuts in 
the last three years.
They are leaving their committees, 
moreover, as Congress considers the Higher 
Education Reauthorization Act of 1985, a 
crucially important law that will set federal 
college policy for the rest of this decade.
Missing will be Rep. Carl Perkins (D-Ky), 
chairman of the House Education-Labor 
Committee, who died this summer, and Rep. 
Paul Simon (D-Il), chair of the House Sub
committee on Postsecondary Education, 
who is running for the Senate against 
Charles Percy.
Two other House education committee 
members are retiring this year.
Perkins was probably the person most 
responsible for holding the line against 
budget cuts Reagan has proposed since 
1980, says Dallas Martin, head of the Na
tional Association of Student Financial Aid 
Administrators.
It was clearly his strong leadership on 
that committee that refused to go along with 
some of the (cuts). It will take another in
dividual a long, long time to live up to Carl 
Perkins standards, Martin says.
Simon, as subcommittee chairman, op
posed making students pass a needs test to 
get loans, and helped mobilize the im
pressive nationwide lobbying efforts that 
turned the tide against the student aid cuts 
in 1982.
The education committees are also losing 
representatives Ray Kogovsek (D-Co) and 
Frank Harrison (D-Pa). Kogovsek is retiring,
and Harrison lost a primary race earlier this
year./ - ffT* <* ..pH *While the departures are not going to be 
positive, there will be no less commitment 
on the parts of the remaining members, 
counsels William Blakey, the subcommittees 
staff director.
Commitment or not, some congressional 
sources say the losses will make education a 
relatively easy target for budget cuts next 
January when the new Congress tries to slash 
the one-and-three-quarter billion dollar 
federal deficit.
Higher education programs are going to 
have to be reauthorized in a year when pro
grams are probably going to be cut in order 
to deal with the huge deficit, observes Pol
ly Gault, staff director of the Senate Educa
tion Subcommiiee, which will lose Sen. Jen
nings Randolph (D-Va) to retirement.
Reauthorization will be a bit more dif
ficult than in 1980, the last time Congress 
set long-term education goals, Gault adds.
It will be more difficult, too, because of 
the relative inexperience of the people 
replacing Perkins and Simon in the House.
The most experienced contender to 
replace Simon is Rep. William Ford (D-Mi), 
who once chaired the Postsecondary Educa
tion Subcommittee but who faces opposition 
from Rep. Ike Andrews (D-NC) in his effort
A student bites a teacher.
The school psychologist goes berserk.
The substitute teacher is a certified lunatic. 
And students graduate who cant read or write.
Its Monday morning at JFK High.
TEACHERS
United Artists Prnnxs An AARON RUSSO Product 
Th eNwspN sarrofCng
sur, NICK NOLTE  JOBETH WILLIAMS JUDD HIRSCH  RALPH MACCHIO 
TEACHERS" ALLEN GARFIELD * LEE GRANT RICHARD MULLIGANWntimt W. R. McKINNE^ Prod*mm Drugnrd b\ RICHARD MacDON'ALD Dnrtior of Photograph* DAVID M. WALSH Eiut.v<- Produrr IRWIN RUSSO Produci AARON RUSSO Dirrrtrd Bt ARTHUR HILLER
R
M WIUIMUUIUON W U((HUSASO( ASSrrTLS
Featuring thr nunc of ZZ TOP BO* SEGER JOE COCKER NIGHT RANGER .M SPECIAL THE MOTELS 
FREDDIE MERCURY IAN HUNTER ROMAN HOLLIDAY ERIC MARTIN ic FRIENDS
STARTS OCTOBER 5th AT THEATRES EVERYWHERE
to regain the post.
Ford sheparded the 1980 reauthorization 
act through the House, but gave up his 
education position to become head of the 
Post Office and Civil Service Subcommittee 
in 1981.
Ford may want the education subcommit
tee chairmanship back to get in line for a 
bigger position. He wants to chair (the 
whole) Education-Labor (committee), says 
Kathy Ozer, lobbyist for the U.S. Student 
Association (USSA).
House rules, however, prohibit members 
from holding two subcommittee chairman
ships at the same time.
Ford is optimistic hell be exempted from 
the rule, says Tom Wolamin, Fords staff 
aide.
But Alan From, staff director of the 
Democratic Caucus, notes Ford isnt the on
ly person who would like to have the rules 
changed for his own benefit. There are pro
bably younger members who would like to 
get a chance to run a subcommittee.
Wolamin says Ford is willing to give up his 
chairmanship of another subcommittee to 
get the postsecondary education post.
I would be very surprised if they allow 
him to take the subcommittee over because 
I think it would anger some of the younger r 
members who dont have a chairmanship of 
anything, says Rose Dinapoli, a Republican 
legislative associate on the subcommittee. 
Its a very powerful subcommittee.
In the meantime, the House last week ap
pointed Rep. Gus Hawkins (D-Ca) to take 
over the full Education-Labor Committee.
Hawkins, who is best known as an expert 
in labor legislation, has an outstanding 
record on education issues like student aid, 
Martin asserts.
On the Senate side, the Senate Education 
Subcommittee will remain under senators 
Claiborne Pell (D-RI) and Robert Stafford 
(R-Vt).
Only one senator on the Senate education 
committee, Pell, is up for reelection, and he 
is expected to win an easy victory.
Nevertheless, staff aide Gault thinks 
education will have a tougher time in Con
gress next year.
I have confidence in our ability to defend 
education programs (from proposals to cut 
them), she says. We have shown that 
repeatedly over the past few years.
But the reauthorization bill will be 
another story, she predicts. The 1 
reauthorization gave a lot of people exactly 
what they wanted. That is not Stafford or 
Pells style, given the responsibility of deficit 
reduction.
ByZANTNE CATholic 
SmdENTs ph CAMpus TTL;; -ii 
Can MaI<e a DIeren! "*
DIVINE LITURGY FOB BYZANTINE CATHOLIC STUDENT* ON THE OAKLAND CAMPUSES
Every Saturday at 7:00 p.m. 
beginning September 8th 
at Holy Spirit Byzantine Catholic 
Church on 5th Avenue In Oakland
v

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1984The TartanPage 5
Students capture actions in video workshop
By CATHI BREZA
Tartan Stoffwriter
Professor Bruce Breland of the Art 
Department, visiting artist Aldo Tambellini 
and students of Breland collaborated on a 
7 video workshop entitled Pittsburgh 12:05 to
12:15.
Tambellini described the workshop as 
dealing with time and media. He also said 
that its a project he and Breland had 
wanted to do for a long time. The idea of 
the workshop was to take ten minutes of a 
day, between 12:05 and 12:15 and See how 
many different things were going on.
Students were sent to places such as 
Shadyside, Downtown Pittsburgh and 
Oakland. Then, using different types of 
media such as video, Polaroid snapshots, 
thirty-five millimeter photographs and tape 
recorders, each student was to use their 
assigned type of media and capture the peo
ple, sounds and actions that were occuring 
during the ten minute period. When each 
student would back their work, Breland and 
Tambellini would help layout the work and 
prepare for the next step. When all the work 
was in, certain stills would be chosen and 
mt together into a ten minute video to 
display all that took place.
All the media gathered would be put on 
a computer, monitored and then printed out 
to what Tambellini called a newspaper. 
Their works would then display, according 
to Tambellini, the summation of all peo
ple together and how many different things 
occur at once that people dont seem to pay 
attention to.
Tambellini is a painter, sculptor and mix
ed media specialist who was overseeing the 
project with Breland. He also gave a lecture 
and showed some of his previous work on 
Tuesday evening.
Tambellini feels that media is a growing 
field which is an art. Media makes the 
world transparent, said Tambellini, that 
has a reality all its own. He hopes to bring 
all forms of art together including the com
puter and science. The merging of many dif
ferent facets, such as science, computers and 
art will be essential in the future.
Tambellini also spent eleven months in 
Brazil and said Carnegie-Mellon will be do
ing a project with the Museum of Contem
porary Art in Brazil. This project would en
tail slow scan stills and images transmitted 
through a telephone line between CMU and 
the Museum in Brazil.
Read this like yourlife depends on it.
Breast cancer found early and treated 
promptly has an excellent chance for cure. 
About a week after your period, practice 
self-examination.
AMERICAN >CANCER SOCIETY*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 2, 1984
1935 NATfONA, 
COLLEGI ATI 
DRIViNC CHAf ofONSH/Pl
Computer confusion common for freshmen
PITTSBURGH, PA (CPS)
Most college freshmen are surprised, con
fused and frustrated during their first year 
of computer courses, according to a newlyreleased study.
The computer anxiety afflicts incoming 
students in all majors, but may be par
ticularly severe among liberal arts majors, 
observers add.
Over 80 percent of all incoming freshmen 
are surprised by the subject matter covered 
in computer courses, the survey reveals.
Moreover, one of every two freshmen are 
confused by computer coursework, while 
nearly 70 percent say the courses actually 
make them frustrated and angry.
When freshmen go away to college they 
have a lot of new experiences. But the com
puter science courses turn out to be much 
different than any of the new students ex
pected, says Lee Sproull, a researcher at 
Carnegie-Mellon University who has 
surveyed CMU freshmen over the last three 
years to assess their attitudes toward com
puter courses here.
Among other things, Sproull says enter
ing students find computer courses more 
surprising, more confusing and harder to get 
a handle on than their other courses.
And such confusion over computers is 
true of liberal arts as well as technical 
students, she adds.
One of the reasons for the so-called com
puter anxiety, Sproull says, is that students 
are often thrust into the computer culture 
before they learn how computers work and 
understand the special language used in 
computer courses.
Like many schools, computing at CMU 
is not simply a question of learning 
about computers in a classroom setting.
Computing is a part of the whole work life
at a campus, Sproull notes.With more traditional subjects like 
history, math, or physics, she says, students 
learn in a sheltered, academic environment, 
and ease their way into the subjects as their 
ability and understanding increases.
But the hands-on experience in com
puter classes catapaults the students direct
ly into the real-life world of computing, fre
quently without any prior exposure to the 
subject or the machines.
Thus, students who are new to com
puting end up using the campus mainframe 
right beside advanced users, which often 
makes the newcomers feel intimidated and 
even more confused, she says.
Thats a natural reaction for just about 
anyone who has to use computers in the 
presence of experienced users. agrees Mark 
Tucker, director of the Project on Informa
tion Technology and Education in 
Washington, D.C.
And the confusion and intimidation cy
cle repeats itself each time you use a dif
ferent computer or a new piece of software, 
he adds, which makes it a lot different from 
learning other college subjects.
To ease students entry into the campus 
computer culture, researcher Sproull sug
gests colleges offer computer orientation 
courses so students will learn the basic rules 
and lingo before taking a computer course.
In addition, colleges need to make their 
terminal rooms less aversive, she says.
Many of the students we surveyed said the 
computer rooms reminded them of a scene 
out of 1984 because they were so cold and 
sterile. Computer rooms should be more 
warm and inviting, Sproull adds.
Fortunately, the computer anxiety many 
freshmen experience decreases as they
photo by Mike Pilewski
Despite their forbodmg presence, computers are a popular tool on the CMU campus.
become more familiar with the subject, 
Sproull notes.
Some students become very exhilarated 
by their new-found Knowledge and say Wow, 
I never know this could be so fun. 
On the other hand, those who never quite 
overcome the confusion and frustration end 
up doing just enough to get by, while still 
others give up on the subject altogether, she 
says.
Why choose Hewlett-Packard ?
Hewlett-Packard Company 
150 Green Pond Rd Rockaway, NJ 07866RRo
0 "S'10 11:00 *1
i-MlU vt
COM**010***** zHE6 * 
nE
| DRIVE THE 1985 DODGE DAYTONA TURBO AND WIN
JDOM/I#'... Over $125 000 *n pn/es wtff be awarded d Annual National Collegiate Driving Championships b you bv Dodge and other participating sponsors National Gran* Finals /bardt?t Place $5 000 cash scholarship and use of a Dodg Oaviona lurbo fcr 1 year xJ Place $3 000 cash scholarship and use of a Dod| Daytona Turbo for 1 year d Place $2 000 cash scholarship and use o* a Dodg Daytona Turbo for 1 year
good/year union ocean pacific
National
Safety
CouncilHEWLETT
PACKARD

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1984The TartanPage 7
City police investigating gun 
incident outside ATO
continued from page 2
According to Fadzen, city police found 
nothing but an empty lot at the firms ad
dress, suggesting that the firm was a car 
dealership of some sort. Fadzen explained 
that the next step for city police has b^en 
to wait for information about the cars 
registration from the Pennsylvania Depart
ment of Transportation.
Fadzen has expressed disappointment
with the progress of the investigation, 
stating, Tve called the [6th District] station 
several times, and not received any informa
tion. The Pittsburgh Police detective 
responsible for handling the case could not 
be reached for comment.
Fadzen and the Campus Police request that 
anyone who spots the suspects vehicle, or 
who has any new information on the inci
dent or the suspect, call x2323 immediately.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Larin Maazel, Music Consultantphoto by Heather McCarty
ATO, on the corner of Morewood and Forbes, was the scene of a recent gun threat.
CI98 Texas Instruments
Get to the answers faster. With theTI'55'Il.
What you need to tackle 
the higher mathematics of a 
science or engineering cur
riculum are more functions - 
more functions than a simple 
slide-rule calculator has.
Enter the TI-55-II, with 
112 powerful functions. You 
can work faster and more 
accurately with the TI-55-II, 
because its preprogrammed
to perform complex calcula
tions - like definite integrals, 
linear regression and hyperbolics - at the touch of a 
button. And it can also be 
programmed to do repetitive 
problems without re-entering 
the entire formula.
Included is. the Calculator 
Decision-Making Sourcebook.
It makes the process of using
the TI-55-II even simpler, 
and shows you how to use all 
the power of the calculator.
Get to the answers faster. 
Let a TI-55-II 
show you how.
wy,PTb 
Instruments
Creating useful products 
and services for you.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 2, 1984
Jacqueline Piscitello received the most 
votes Spring seat.
Shep Bostin received the second most 
votesFall seat.
Ask one of 
the 3 million 
Americans 
whove 
survived 
cancer, 
if the money 
spent on 
research 
is worth it.
We are 
winning. 
, Please , 
support the
AMERICAN #CANCER i SOCIETY
MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
September 25, 1984 
The meeting was called to order at 6:10 PM. 
Present: Ben, Bruno, Cohen, Corkss, Goldstein, Pane, 
Rocher, Searing, Soller, Taylor, Volan. Weller, Salley. 
Den burg. Wardrop. Dean Cox 
Absent: Debroff (excused), Duer, Ibrahim, Murray, 
Patula, Weaver, Williams, McCormick, Frank, Nichols, 
Dean Walter
Minutes: August 28corrected and approved.
September 18corrected and approved. 
Audience Participation: None.
Dean Caen: Stated that the Post Gazette and other media 
are blowing the Vi dry, half wet fraternity rush policy 
out of proportion, connecting it with last years inci
dent and inferring drinking a problem at CMU. Jeff 
Duer suggested writing letters.
IFC: Announced dm Fraternity Rush is going well, only 
a few weeks remain.
Chairman: No report.
Treasurer: No report.
Rules: No report, filling of Senate vacancies took place.
 H&SS: 7 petitioners, 2 seats
1. Shep Bostin
2. Diana M.L. Bianco
3. Jacqueline Piscitello
4. William Simmons
5. Marcy Baughman
6. Mari jo White
7. Amanda Mujica
Finance: Minutes hum Finance meeting were corrected 
and approved. (All allocations and reallocations were 
approved. See Finance minutes on file for details.)
CIT: 4 seats open
1. Edward Miller 
t. Jamal Mukherjee
S. Larry Bach
4. Cherie Jagerski 
Edward Miller and Jamal Mukherjee 
Spring seat.
Larry Bach and Cherie JagerskiFall 
seat.
AH were accepted by acclamation.
 MCS: 1 seat open, 1 nominee 
Nominee Seth Kaplan not present; Eric 
Rocher will notify him.
No petitions for SUPA and GSIA seats 
were presented. John requested Eric to 
continue to advertise these vacancies in 
the Tartan.
Announcements:
Finance meeting Monday at 7:00.
Cindy Thanks for cards for dad in the 
hospital; he really appreciated it.
GC&Imeeting Thursday at 1I:S0.
Cat* Pajamas meet Vied., 9/26 at 5:00 
in Skibo IS.
The meeting adjourned at 7:03 PM.
7:03-9:15 PM -Senate participation in the Alumni 
Phonathon.
Respectfully submitted,
Leslie Frank, Secretary 
These minutes to be approved at tonights meeting.
GC&I: New ideas were discussed at the committee 
meeting; the purpose of new ideas is to push "newness 
with Senate along with new senators; examplepublicity campaign, photograph to be handled by Peter 
Cohen, including a 1-week ad in the Tartan. Senate 
payback will be in the form of ideas and input from 
campus. More examplesposters, campus questionaire.
GET IN 
THE GAME
Its fourth and goal and youve got the ball. Make your move to the first team. 
The National Security Agency offers you an all-pro career opportunity in the 
following fields:
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING There 
are opportunities in a variety of 
research and development projects 
ranging from individual equipments to 
very complex interactive systems 
involving large numbers of micro
processors, minicomputers and 
computer graphics. Professional growth 
is enhanced through interaction with 
highly experienced NSA professionals 
and through contacts in the industrial 
and academic worlds. Facilities for 
engineering analysis and design 
automation are among the best 
available
COMPUTER SCIENCE At NSA you II
discover one of the largest computer 
installations in the world with almost 
every major vendor of computer 
equipment represented. NSA careers 
provide mixtures of such disciplines as
systems analysis and design, scientific 
applications programming, data base 
management systems, operating systems, 
computer networking/security, and 
graphics
MATHEMATICS You'll work on 
diverse agency problems applying a 
variety of mathematical disciplines. 
Specific assignments might include 
solving communications-related 
problems, performing long-range 
mathematical research or evaluating 
new techniques for communications 
security.
LINGUISTS NSA offers a wide range of 
challenging assignments for Slavic, 
Near Eastern and Asian language 
majors involving translation, transcription 
and analysis/reporting. Newly-hired 
linguists can count on receiving 
advanced training in their primary
language(s) and can plan on many 
years of continued professional 
growth.
THE REWARDS AT NSA NSA offers 
a salary and benefit program thats 
truly competitive with private industry. 
There are assignments for those who 
wish to travel and abundant good living 
in the Baltimore-Washington area for 
those who wish to stay close to home. 
Countless cultural, historical, 
recreational and educational opportu
nities are just minutes away from NSAs 
convenient suburban location.
To find out more about NSA career 
opportunities, schedule an interview 
through your college placement office. 
For additional information on the 
National Security Agency, write to 
National Security Agency, Attn: M322, 
Fort George G Meade. Maryland 20755.
On Campus Recruiting Date: 
Oct. 10,1984
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
!FC, gaming, Macintosh, karate; Spirit
Press conference held for five new clubs
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Features Editor
Something always seems to be happening 
on campus  classes, homework, parties, 
other free-time activities, etc. Well, now 
theres even more to catch your interest. Stu
dent Senate gave recognition to three new 
clubs last week along with funding to two 
other previously-established organizations.
Eric Rocher, Chairman of the Senate 
Rules Committee, began the press con
ference with a speech to kick off Senates 
Join a Club campaign. Rocher stated that 
CMU is known as a fine academic institu
tion but not necessarily rated as having a 
very friendly, open, and united student body.
We are the Switzerland of colleges, he 
said. To improve this schools social and 
cultural environment, the Rules Committee 
will provide a means for club leaders to carry 
out their mandates.
Rocher sounded optimistic as he tied all 
CMU students into belonging to one club 
or another. The variety is almost unlimited, 
he stated. Whether it be political, religious, 
cultural, academic, professional, scientific, 
service, or social in nature, we all belong to 
some type of organization. In conclusion, 
Rocher mentioned that For those people 
who do not find a club to suit their tastes, 
they can always try to start their own. 
Following are brief statements about each 
group. Every club representative stressed 
that if anyone is interested in their organiza
tion, they should get in touch as soon as 
possible.
New Clubs:
Macintosh User Group  The Macin
tosh User Group was established for a 
number of reasons. They include: l)to set 
up and maintain a campus, local communi
ty, and country-wide communications net
work with other Macintosh users. 2)to pro
vide users with products that would be either 
too expensive or time consuming for in
dividuals to get. 3)to provide other campus
Attention all seniors: help
By BOB WALDRON
Special to The Tartan 
Late for your next class? Soon youll know 
exactly just how late you really are. A clock, 
a gift from the Senior Class of 1983, will be 
up on the cut by Doherty Hall shortly.
As you know, this years Senior Class Gift 
Committee is in the process of choosing our 
own gift. The committee, consisting of 
representatives from all five colleges, has 
narrowed the suggestions down to four. 
These ideas include: and endowment of 
newspapers and periodicals from all major 
areas of the country to Hunt Library; a 
Carnegie-Mellon sign for some prominent 
spot on campus; a piece of artwork commis| sioned to a Fine Arts Alumni; and a student 
nightspot.
Carnegie-Mellon is comprised of students 
form all over the country. Each student has 
his/her favorite ewspaper, be it the LA 
Times, Chicago Sun, or Boston Globe. The 
pft from the senior class would be invested 
Wlth the return financing the subscriptions 
fr many years.
The college of Fine Arts has produced
Enany prominent artists. The senior class 
^uld commission an artist to creatre a piece 
0r the campus. The work will add to the 
cultural setting at CMU.
/The third idea is to provide a 
^stinguishing sign along Forbes by Warner 
 This would replace the existing sign 
contintMd on pag 11
Representatives of newly recognized clubs. Present are members from the Karate Club, 
Carnegie-Mellon Gaming Club, and IFCs committee.
services (lectures and seminars dealing with 
how to use certain software packages on the 
Mac). Contact: Scot MacPherson, smlp at 
cmcctd, x4008.
QlFCs Committee  Their goal is to pro
mote interaction between the Greeks and 
non-Greeks through campus-wide events.
They would like to get the campus, as a 
whole, close together. Unity, they feel, is 
what college is all about. The group would 
like the student body involved in the com
mittee. Contact: James Denburg, 682-9580. 
#Carnegie-Mellon Gaming Club  
Members of the CMGC meet weekly for as
long as 12 hours to play strategy and roleplaying games. They use these games to 
provide student interaction, personal 
enrichment, and a healthy diversion from 
academic rigors. Because of this, their 
games will be taught as well as played. The 
games have a few restrictions, but this will 
enable members to participate in more kinds 
of games. The CMGC holds to the belief that 
it exists solely for the benefit of our 
members. Dues will be three dollars per 
semester. Contact: Brett Whysel, x4463; 
Gary Aulfinger, x8627; Ed Kenschaft, x4473.
Newly funded clubs:
 Shotokan Karate Club  The Shotokan 
Karate Club at CMU is one of many groups 
studying karate in America. Their instruc
tors are volunteer black belts who teach 
karate because they like to both teach and 
practice the art. The group feels that karate 
is a wonderful way of exercising for those 
who like to push themselves. For the serious 
karate student, it is a way to acquire selfcontrol while developing a powerful fighting 
ability. Contact: Eli Boling, x8927; Andrew 
Spewock, 687-3007.
 Spirit  Spirit is devoted to meeting the 
political and cultural needs of the campus 
minority population. The group performs 
this function by providing speakers, serving 
as an interface between the minority popula
tion and the university administration, and 
holding various social events. All of their ac
tivities are open to the campus. Contact: 
Donald Starver, x4381.
AIESEC members work abroad
By SUE KIM
Special to The Trtan
Students who are looking for practical ex
perience in business, management, and 
dealing with other people in a professional 
manner can find it in AIESEC. AIESEC of
fers experience in its regular operations. 
There are eleven committees that contribute 
to a successful organization. These include 
fundraising, marketing, projects, publicrelations, human resources, MIS, and recep
tion to name a few. Committees give ex
perience in advertising, computerizing in
formation, organizing and planning pro
jects, events or publications, and dealing 
with Pittsburghs business people.
The AIESEC experience also includes 
work in foreign countries. This past summer, 
five students were sent abroad to work. Two 
members worked in Osaka, Japan, while 
three other members were sent to work in 
Europe.
Dangerous is one of the words that 
Timothy Liu used to describe his six-week 
training session in Bristol, England. 
Through AIESEC, Liu worked for Kleeneze 
Group Services as a management trainee. 
During his employment with the company, 
Liu was rotated through sales, accounting, 
computers, and production divisions. This 
enabled him to gain invaluable on-the-job 
experience in several fields related to his maAIESEC member Sue Flickinger in Hamburg, Germany.
jor (Information Systems).
On a more social note, Liu enjoyed his 
stay in England. The double decker buses, 
he commented, were fun to ride. Regar
ding the people, Liu said there were lots of 
punkers and it was dangerous, because the 
British drive on the left side of the road. 
The newspapers always contained articles on 
the Royal family, and there were strikes all 
the time.
Besides enjoying his social life in England, 
Liu worked hard at his management posi
tion. He took advantage of the chance he 
had to learn more about sales, production, 
and planning in a company. This invaluable 
business experience is one of the best features 
of AIESECs traineeshop program.
Beth Dougherty, former Vice-president of 
Reception for AIESEC, worked in Nova 
Scotia for her traineeship. When she found 
out the location of her traineeship, she 
figured that the culture difference wouldnt 
be too great. She was a little disappointed. 
However, she is writing home (shes still in, 
Nova Scotia for her four month stay) 
describing how pleased she is to discover that 
she was wrong.
Her job is with Maritime Telegraph and 
Telephone Co. Ltd., working in a highly 
responsible capacity in management. Her 
major, Applied Mathematics, is really help
ing her, and she is using her math skills on 
the job often. Doughertys favorite part of 
her job are the people. In Halifax, Nova 
Scotia, they may be different from 
Americans, but they treat her very well and 
are extremely friendly.
The former president of AIESEC, Sue 
Flickinger, traveled to Hamburg, Germany 
to work for Commerzbank AG. At Com
merzbank, Flickinger worked in the credit 
department andalso on the stock exchange. 
Every once in a while, there would be cham
pagne breakfasts at work, usually to 
celebrate a birthday, this started the day 
off on an interesting note.
continued on p*o 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanOctober 2, 1984
Older students
"Eternal student" returns for thesis; mother of two to earn degree
By TERI BREIER
Tartan Staffwriter
Armar Archbold describes himself as an 
eternal graduate student. Currently a tem
porary special student in the English Depart
ment, he may apply for graduate status to 
pursue a Ph.D. in Rhetoric. Armar is 
somewhere around 35 years old.
If I pass statistics, Kathleen Klenner con
fides, giggling nervously, Ill get my B. A. in 
Professional Writing this December. 
Kathleen, 40, has two college-age daughters.
A recent article in The Philadelphia In
quirer stated that of all college students in 
the United States, one out of three are 25 
or older. Many of these, of course, are re
cent Bachelor or Masters degree recipients 
seeking ever higher education.
But what about a college graduate, 
already proven in the real world for six 
years, who decides to return to school? How 
about a middle-aged housewife attempting 
to gain the college education she never had? 
Why do they choose the academic life of a 
student? Is it a problem being older than 
their peers?
Armar, as he so readily admits, is a 
veteran of academic studies. Most of his 
childhood was spent in Europe, primarily 
England, France, Italy, and Switzerland. 
After graduation from high school in 
France, he went on to recieve a degree in 
Analytic Philosophy from Oxford. Armar 
returned to Europe where he earned an 
M.A. in Political Philosophy at the Sor
bonne and began to study for his Ph.D. at 
the Ecole Practique des Hautes' Etudes 
under the tutelage of Professor Raymond 
Aron.
His learning was interrupted when he left 
to study at Harvard-MIT. After several years,
he left the academic world to pursue a career 
at the Stanford Research Institute (SRI) in 
Palo Alto, California.
Why has Armar decided to re-enter 
academic life? First, his job at SRI wasnt 
presenting a challenge to him anymore. He 
felt his capabilities were not being stretched 
to their limit. Then, many of his colleagues 
had taken employment elsewhere and that 
made the job seem less attractive. Finally, 
the death of his friend and mentor Professor 
Aron a year ago made him realize that he 
really wanted to complete his longsuspended thesis.
Camegie-Mellon became Armars choice 
for two reasons: it was recommended by an 
acquaintance of his in the English Depart
ment and, more importantly, CMU is 
distinguished as one of few American univer
sities offering a graduate degree in rhetoric.
Soon after graduating from high school, 
Kathleen got married, had two daughters, 
and moved from Johnstown to first Buffalo 
then California. Following a divorce, she 
took her daughters back home and enrolled 
in a local college for practical nursing. She 
worked as a nurse until she developed ar
thritis and was unable to fulfill all her duties.
Actually, she confessed, I found the 
routine somewhat boring. I needed to 
stimulate my mind.
Five years ago, Kathleen was accepted at 
the Ivy School of Professional Art on the 
North Side of Pittsburgh. While studying 
there, she took a clerical job at CamegieMellon. When a friend suggested she attend 
CMU, Kathleen agreed. She applied and was 
accepted. Her major changed from art to 
professional writing.
After graduation, Kathleen would like to
get a job in computer documentation at In
spiration Systems, Inc., where she interned 
as a technical writer last year.
However, she has always been interested 
in art. So after a year of work, she plans to 
take some art courses and then move into 
advertising. This field she feels will effective
ly combine her backgrounds in both writing 
and art.
What difficulties have Armar and 
Kathleen experienced as older students? 
Neither of them have encountered any hard
ships due directly to their ages. But both cite 
time restraints as major worries. Kathleen 
simply does not have enough of it. Between 
attending classes full-time, working 30 hours 
a week, and spending time with her older 
daughter, Kathleen finds that she has to
steal hours from my sleep.
I dont know how she does all that, Ar
mar reacts. I have enough trouble just with 
school! He admits he is a sleep hog and 
believes that to be most efficient, he must 
get enough sleep.
Kathleen finds the CMU employment 
policy infuriating. Theyve got this neat, lit
tle Catch-22 , she explains. If you work for 
the university part-time, then you can 
qualify to take a free course for each 1000 
hours you put in. Of course, 1000 hours takes 
a long time if you only have 20 hours a week. 
If you work full time, you can take as many 
classes as you want  free. But how much 
spare time do you have, working full time? 
Otherwise, Kathleen really loves school.
continued on page 11
No matter what the age, all students can enjoy the last vestiges of warm summer weather. *
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
s YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS 
that could become available for September, 
October and November occupancy.
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU!
AFKJNMTMLNT
LCLSSAHY IlKCH IGwccnmsns
PRECISION HAFQJTTERS
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$13.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00,
NO
APPOINTMENT
Mon.. Tu., Wed 10-7 
Thurs.. Fri. 10-9 
Sat 9-6687 3500 
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street irom 
Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1984The TartanPage 11
Flickinger comes home
continued from page 9
In Hamburg, Flickinger lived in the red 
light district which is the largest in Europe. 
On several occasions, she would be follow
ed home or approached by males and ask
ed how much? However, Flickinger wasnt 
worried. Although the area was a red light 
district, it was not dangerous and crimes,
especially violent ones, were extremely rare.
For all the AIESEC members who work
ed abroad, the experience was more than 
practical. It included a lot of socializing and 
meeting new people in new surroundings. 
Working abroad is an experience that many 
AIESEC members will remember for a 
lifetime.
Seniors asked for opinion
continued from page 9
that lacks visibility and style.
Last is the student nightspot. It would 
provide a casual meeting place for students, 
faculty, and alumni. Snacks will be served 
along with music, atmosphere, and drinks. 
(The possibility exists for a liquor license,
however our gift would not depend upon its 
approval.)
On October 3 (10:30 to 2:30) and October 
4 (10:00 to 2:30) the committee will conduct 
a senior-preference survey in front of Doher
ty Hall. Please stop by; your participation 
is crucial to ensure the most popular gift.
Academic life found to be easy
continued from page 10
She feels the reason that the transition in
to academic life has been so easy for her is 
because I never stopped reading. Ive always
been a avid reader, and I never got out of 
the habit. For Armar, the transition wasnt 
too difficult because Im used to it. Ive been 
a student all my life.
Computer Science, Mathematics and Engineering
You didnt spend thousands of hours 
studying just to be told that 
youve got a lot to learn.
Carnegie-Mellon InterviewsOctober 9th
bit about SMS
SMSs success in the health care data processing field is evidenced by growth averaging over 25 % annually since 1969. Combining the skills of experienced hospital administrators and computer professionals, SMS provides the health care industry with clinical and financial information systems in a fully integrated data processing environment. Supported by an extensive R&D program (over 9% of our budget), our singular focus has made us an undisputed leader in two of the nations largest industries... computers and health care.
In the months to come, we expect to hire over 50 graduating seniors with degrees in Computer Sciencei Mathematics and Engineering. These positions are available at our Corporate Headquarters, which is situated on 116 acres in scenic Chester County, just a short drive from Philadelphia.
Your first days with SMS
Your first days with SMS will immediately involve you in critical 
data processing /information management projects. Although SMS 
provides extensive training, the emphasis is to build on the skills you 
have worked so hard to develop.
TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT
The SMS Data Center houses an array of IBM mainframes (3081s, 
3033s, 4381s, 4341s and others) and DEC/VAX superminis in sup
port of a nationwide distributed network of over 6700 terminals, 
serving over 800 clients. The telecommunications capacity at our 
Data Center rivals that of most major cities, and our hardware con
figuration is recognized as one of Americas most sophisticated.
APPLICATIONS ENVIRONMENT
SMS offers new graduates immediate involvement with fourth 
generation software, local area networking, data base design, and 
advanced communications and telecommunications development. 
SMS also serves as a test site for new releases of IBM / DEC 
hardware and software.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS
The market potential for SMS systems and services is measured in 
biilions of dollars. Every year, for the past 5 years, our staff has increased by over 20%, creating exceptional opportunities for 
new graduates to advance to higher level technical and 
management positions.
For information contact your placement office. If interview dates 
are inconvenient, forward your resume to: SMS, College Relations 
Dept., 51 Valley Stream Parkway, Malvern, PA 19355. An equal 
opportunity employer.
INFORMATION SYSTEMS FOR THE HEALTH CARE INDUSTRY. 
TWICE THE CAREER POTENTIAL

---------------------------------------------------

* WED0CT3 7:30pm EH-Terry Hart of AT+T previously with NASA, will give a presentation on his mission aboard the Challenger Shuttle
*1HLR.0CX4 Ham to 4pm Skibo BfeUrocmA conference where students from all academic disciplines are invited to come and talk freely and informally with company representatives.Featuring...ALCOA AMFAT+T Information Systems AT+TBattelleCorning Glass Works E.l. Dupont General Motors Hewlett- Packard KendallLawrence - Livermore Schlumberger Tektronix
TRW
WangRolm
Calgon DECGeneral Electric GTE IBM Kodak PolaroidStandard Oil Co. of Ohio Texas Instruments U.S. Steel Xerox... and more

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
A Soldier's Story exposes another side of war
By LESLEY BRUNKEK
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Thick as Mississippi mud 
Interracial prejudice. Intraracial bias. 
Whodunit. World War II. A Soldiers Story 
has everything but the kitchen sink.
It successfully navigates the 
river without becoming mired in 
MW _ thick subject matter. Twisting
down a crooked detective trail 
boardered with humour, elation, frustration, 
and pain, the film simplistically and satisfac
torily resolves each sub-theme.
The movie, produced and directed by 
Norman Jewison, opens in a Louisiana town 
near an army camp in 1944. Sergeant Waters 
(superbly portrayed by Adolph Caesar), the 
small, tough black commander of an all
black platoon, is shot and killed after a night 
of heavy drinking.
Captain Davenport (Howard Rollins, Jr.) 
is immediately called in to investigate, and 
is immediately deluged with the clogged 
workings of a complex, racially structured 
system.
Waters' men say the Klan is to blame. The
white army brass arent talking. And Daven
port, meanwhile, is experiencing the con
spicuousness of being a black captain in an 
area where, well, you dont see too many 
black captains.
And so on. The beauty of A Soldiers Story 
lies in its ability to make its points without 
overstating them. Each racial conflict does 
not stand as an event -- rather, it yields 
another clue to the mystery. Davenports 
novelty wears off before it wears us down. 
And the movie never deigns to become a 
brotherhood rally.
Charles Fuller originally wrote A Soldiers 
Story as a play (performed by the Negro 
Ensemble Company), and the movie does 
suffer a bit in the transformation. A great 
deal of the action takes place in fully staged 
flashbacks. This becomes a bit tiresome, 
especially when a few flashbacks show an un
necessary dream like quality that is not up 
to todays film standards.
A Soldiers Story is unique because it views 
racial bias from a black perspective and 
because it features a predominantly black 
cast. But these features threaten to leave it
in the critically-well-acclaimed-butfinancially-unsuccessful category.
Much as the rock film This is Spinal Tap 
was advertised to (and would seemingly ap
peal only to) the hard rock audience, A 
Soldiers Story in its all black trappings will
be attractive predominantly to blacks. This 
is unfortunate. Both movies have far too 
much to say about real people in real life 
to be so carelessly overlooked. Dont miss this 
unlikely gem.
Film favorites dominate 
October Playhouse schedule
A variety of highly acclaimed films 
dominate the October Playhouse Favorites 
Month schedule. Film times are at 7:30 and 
9:30. A different film is shown each night 
with an added 11:30 show on weekends. Ad
mission price is now $2.95 per person.
American classics include the muchhonored brilliant classic Gone With the 
Wind, (Oct. 7),one of the most perfect casts 
ever assembled in Casablanca (Oct. 12) 
Laurence Olivier in one of Hollywoods bes 
adaptations of the classic novel Pride anu 
Prejudice (Oct. 21), one of Billy Wilders best 
and one of the funniest farces put on the 
screen Some Like It Hot (Oct. 23), Marlon 
Brando and Vivian Leigh in a tightly 
directed A Streetcar Named Desire (Oct. 
24), and Judy Garland in the all-time 
favorite The Wizard of Oz (Oct. 28).
More recent American films include a 
great turkey film The Attack of the Killer 
Tomatoes (Oct. 1), Dustin Hoffman in the 
searing Lenny (Oct. 11), a comedy classic 
Harold and Maude (Oct. 20), and George 
Romeros horrifying Dawn of the Dead (Oct. 
31).
Foreign imports include one of Ingmar
Bergmans best, The Seventh Seal (Oct. 3), 
a fine Australian film My Brilliant Career 
(Oct. 4), Peter OTooles wildest performence 
in The Ruling Class (Oct. 5), Bernardo Ber
toluccis epic film 1900 (Oct. 8), Fellinis best 
film 8V2 (Oct. 10), David Leans fine Dr. 
Zhivago (Oct. 14), Akira Kurosawas intense 
action film Seven Samurai (Oct. 17), two 
continued on page 22
Howard Rollins, Jr., absent from the screen since his Oscar-nominated performance 
in Ragtime, turns in another strong showing as investigating officer Captain Davenport.
Classic Pink Floyd album featured in Laserium show
By AL DATRI
Several weekends ago a friend and I ven
tured to Buhl Planetarium, which is located 
in the North Side near Century III Mall. The 
object of our quest was the latest of a series 
|of Laserium shows.
Past shows have been Laser 
lock I and II, and two that fea
tured exclusively the music of 
Rush. This show features the music of Pink 
Floyds legendary Dark Side of the Moon.
For those who are not familiar with this 
artistic medium, Laserium is a multi-media 
presentation led by patterns of laser light. 
The swirling color effect that was shown
when Mork contacted Orson on the Mork 
and Mindy television show was done by 
Laserium.
These shows are held in the main planeta
rium and are accompanied by music played 
through a system of more than twenty 
speakers. The frequency response is not 
phenomenal, but the number and placement 
of speakers does effectively surround the 
viewer.
Although Laserium has been around since 
the 1970s, the presentations have improved 
greatly. What several years ago consisted of 
geometric patterns in two or three colors has 
now become a melange of artistic shapes 
than span the spectrum. The shows now fill 
the entire surface of the dome, as opposed to 
those of previous years, which were con
fined to a relatively small region of the 
dome.
Since the chairs in the planetarium are 
tilted only slightly backwards and the rows 
are rather close together, we decided to view 
the show while lying on the carpet. This 
afforded a much better view of the show 
since our necks were not strained and the 
show developed directly in front instead of 
above us.
Pink Floyds Dark Side of the Moon, which
has been on Billboards chart for over ten 
years, provided the aural experience for this 
show. The Laserium effects meshed per
fectly with the eclectic nature of this album, 
with wildly dancing shapes and patterns 
accompanying the faster and heavier songs.
But truly the best part of the show was the 
haunting title track, which featured visual 
effects not only of Laserium, but also those 
provided by the Zeiss manufactured projec
tor. These included sweeping star fields, a 
360-degree Pittsburgh nighttime skyline, 
and of course views of the moon. The show is 
best when one becomes one with the music 
and the sights, losing oneself in the grandeur 
and beauty of the presentation.
The show is currently being run in the 
evenings, with a matinee at 3:30 on Satur
days. Call the planetarium at 321-5554 for 
recorded information as to show times. We 
rode our bikes there, but you might consider 
taking a bus.
There are buses that will take you from 
Oakland to the vicintiy of the planetarium. 
Consult the PAT schedules found in Skibo 
or call PATs information line for informa
tion on times and stops.
AI Datri is a sophomore majoring in 
chemistry and a staff uniter for the Tartan.
Hewlett Gallery shows photo exhibit
The legendary Lou Reed, leader of the avant-punk music movement, will play the 
Syria Mosque Thursday, October 4. Reed is touring in support of his latest album, 
Sensations. This will be his first Pittsburgh appearance in sixteen years.
The Hewlett Gallery at Carnegie-Mellon 
University will exhibit the photographs of 
David Aschkenas from Sunday, Oct. 7 to 
Wednesday, Oct. 31. The photographer will 
attend the opening reception from 3 to 5 
pm, Sunday, Oct. 7.
Hewlett Gallery curator Elaine A. King 
has said that Aschkenas photographs have 
a sense of immediate discovery about them 
. . . They are narrative composites reveal
ing an essence of the fleeting pageantry con
tinuously unfolding in the streets of New 
York City.
His work is represented in the collections 
of the Pittsburgh Theological Seminary, the 
Polaroid Collection and the Minneapolis In
stitute of the Arts.
Aschkenas has had one-man exhibitions 
in Pittsburgh and Boston. He has also shown 
in group shows in Pittsburgh, Washington 
D.C. and New York.
The Hewlett Gallery in the College of Fine 
Arts is open to the public from 11 am to 4 
pm, Tuesday to Friday; noon to 4 pm, 
Saturday; and I to 4 pm, Sunday.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 2, 1984
Carnegie Hall crowd dances with Pointer Sisters
By MARK LEVINE
Tartan Managing Editor
One wall to another wall at the Carnegie 
Music Hall: Whats going on? I dont 
know, but I hope my balconies can hold out
It certainly wasnt what the 
hall was used to. It wasnt a symj phony orchestra or Carl Sagan 
speaking on our universe. It was 
the Pointer Sisters, and they really shook 
things up last Monday.
But first a word or two about the Special 
Guest to open their act. For a long time noone knew who the special guest was going 
to be; but several days before the concert it 
was announced: CMUs own Tom
Willmorth.
This was at least something the Music 
Hall could understand. A mime, now thats 
a classy act. And although Tom didnt do 
any of his old favorite mimes, he did put on 
a fairly classy and definitely funny act.
I say only fairly classy because he made 
the act a little more risque and a little more 
hard-hitting (one bit was Katherine 
Hepburn desperately trying to get you to 
knock this battery off my shoulder while 
continuously shaking it off herself).
It was mostly stand-up with a little bit of 
mime and a surprising amount of stand-up 
comedy about mime which were, I think, his 
funniest moments. I mean havent you 
always wanted to see a mime chain-saw his 
way out of one of those stupid invisible 
cubes?
He used mostly new material for this show, 
his biggest audience yet, but he did finish 
up with the very funny four mime deaths. 
Personally, I think death by nail-file is the 
best, but you 11 have to decide for yourself 
if you see it again at one of his CMU perfor
The Pointer Sisters, Ruth, June, and Anita, had the crowd dancing in the aisles of 
Carnegie Hall during their concert last Monday.
mances. All in all, it was nice to see one of 
CMUs guys make good.
And on to the Pointer Sisters. They didnt 
come from CMU; they came to CMU, they 
saw, and they, to quote, conquered.
They came out in what looked like dresses 
from someones hallucination about the 40s. 
They jumped into a rocker called Hap
piness and kept the energy up throughout 
the whole show, even though the 
temperature in the hall was somewhere 
around the melting point for steel.
Are you ready for a good time? The 
crowd was, and the Pointer Sisters did not 
disappoint them. But when they said Were 
going to give you a little bit of everything, 
I do think they were overstating their case 
a bit. Because these were the Pointer Sisters, 
whose career spans from when they were do
ing 40s songs like Steam Heat to their 
latest hit which you can hear if you turn on 
a Top 40 radio station and wait five minutes. 
So their everything was confined to more 
contemporary songs and past hits. It was a 
good show, but it mainly consisted of songs 
sung fast and loud or slow and sexy.
The sisters, Ruth, June, and Anita, took 
turns singing lead  that was one of the 
nicest things about the way they worked. You 
could say June was the lead singer, she took 
the opener and the hits Hes So Shy and 
Should I Do It?; or deep-voiced Ruth (I 
think she should be classified as a female 
bassl) who sang Take My Heart, the hardrocking Neutron Dance and Automatic. 
But then Anita sang the very sultry Slow 
Hand and Fire. And in songs like the nowpopular Jump they all sang lead, much to
the dismay of an over-ambitious lighting 
crew who tried to isolate who was singing 
and ended up playing a futile game of find 
the lead singer, to their and our dismay. 
Theyre all singing and moving, guys. Just 
light all three.
And move they did. They were con
stantly dancing half-choreographed moves, 
syncronised enough to be interesting and ex
citing, but not so totally clone-like that they 
looked like a stilted female version of the 
Pips. They played with the songs, too; you 
cant imagine people playing patty-cake in 
the middle of a song, but it sort of worked. 
And they stopped everything dead for about 
two minutes during the real halt in Fire, 
and then, finally, cranked it up again. The 
audience was dancing, too, of course; a fairly 
bizarre sight in the Carnegie Music Hall. 
One began to wonder if the balconies really 
could take it.
The lights were, as I said, a bit of a pro
blem, and the acoustics were okay, consider
ing the place was not really built for three 
screaming balls of energy in colorful, frilly 
miniskirts. But at one point during Jump, 
the sound went completely dead. The three 
sisters went on nonplussed, and eventually 
started the song over again when the mat
ter was fixed.
It was a fun, in the very happy, care-free 
sense of the word, concert, albeit a very short 
one (65 minutes, and only 11 songs). The 
backup band was quite capable and got to 
show off their talents in a mini-concert after 
the Pointers left. The band-members left, 
one by one, until the last drum solo was left 
pounding in our ears. The drums disap
peared but the songs of the Pointer Sisters 
hung around for awhile as the crowd left 
Carnegie Music Hall still humming and 
dancing.
Scotch n Soda
presents
Meetings for interested and talented 
playwrights, directors, composers
October 9 
7:00 pm 
Skibo Room 11 
October 10 
8:00 pm 
Skibo Room 12
And, for all board members...
Meeting at 7:00 pm 
October 15 
Wherrett Room
OiMMJ5 FINEST USD H1DST 
iOSOOTLJ PRICED JJ11DDLEEUSTERN RESTSTOM INVITES 
XOD TO CDIJ1E IS AND ENJDS 
OUR $Em REinODELED FACILITY
rali ralirali
authentic middle eastern food 
404 south craig street  phone 682-2829
C0IJ1PLETE CHUM DUT ITEM 
BRING 3OUi] OWN ALCOHOLIC BEVEMGES
for over 21 years only

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans continue todominate in PAC play
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
With a pass rush display rarely seen in any 
type of football, the CMU Tartans defeated 
the Hiram Terriers 24-8 at Henry Field in 
Hiram, Ohio.
Led by Richard Fabian, Dale Kording, 
and Scott Bachik, the Tartans had eight 
sacks of Terrier quarterback Dave Roliff. 
Roliff had trouble unloading the ball all day, 
as the CMU secondary did a fine job cover
ing the opponents receivers. Roliff was not 
a very mobile quarterback, and had trou
ble eluding the quick Plaid Curtain.
The offense was not as impressive, but put 
the points on the board needed to win. Tech 
had five turnovers and gave the Terriers 
many opportunities to score.
Anthony Collaros, who replaced leading 
rusher Victor Boland as the White team 
fullback, led the Tartans with 67 yards on
15 carries, but fumbled twice. Go team QB 
Mike Hensel was second with 61 yards on 
nine carries, also fumbling once, but run
ning for one touchdown.
The Terriers, Who were crushed by the 
Tartans 46-0 last year, played a tough game, 
but couldnt put anything together on of
fense. The Terriers had just 28 yards rushing 
on 46 attempts, which includes the eight 
sacks for -62 yards. Jeff Overly had a little 
success at times, but gained only 37 yards 
on 16 carries. Fullback Chris Kovach grind
ed out the tough yardage when the Terriers 
needed them, but there were few of those 
short yardage cases.
Roliff didnt seem to have much power 
behind his throws, but was effective in 
throwing the short pass. Wide out Tom Col
ins, who came into the game in the top ten 
n Division III in receiving, was Roliffs 
avorite receiver, catching six passes for 47
yards and a two-point conversion. The con
version came on a muddle huddle play, the 
formation that the Tartans themselves have 
made famous.
The turnaround point of this game came 
in the second quarter. The Tartans led 7-0 
when Collaros fumbled after a nine yard 
run. The Terriers took over on Techs 38 yard 
line, and seemed to be headed for the tying 
score. A third down pass to Collins was good 
for a first down to the 28. A second pass 
from Roliff to Overly went 11 yards to the 
12 yard line. After Kovach bulled his way for 
two yards to the ten, Hiram began to move 
backwards.
Roliff rolled out and attempted to run, 
but was stopped by defensive end Bachik for 
a loss of one. Roliff then dropped back to 
pass, but Defensive Coordinator Don 
Poluszek called a blitz. It worked, as 
linebacker Mike Paterchak was all over 
Roliff and sacked him for a ten yard loss.
On fourth-and-nineteen, the Terriers 
brought out kicker Tom Cammett for a 38 
yard field goal attempt. Cammett split the 
uprights, but there was a flag. Senior Jeff 
Spratt, a guard on the field goal team for 
Hiram, never went on the field. The Terriers 
had just five men on the line of scrimmage, 
and you must have six. The five yards 
pushed Cammett back five yards, and this 
time the kicker missed wide right.
The Tartans drove downfield, the key 
plays being two passes from Dave Zito to 
Roger Roble and Harley Carroll for 17 and
16 yards respectively. Another key was a Zito 
run that gained 21 yards. CMU got to the 
Hiram three yard line, but couldnt punch 
it across the goal line. Rob Fleischman hit 
the 22 yard field goal. Instead of leading 7-3, 
the Tartans had a commanding 10 point 
lead.
photo by Erik Horn
Dave Zito eludes one tackier and laces another while rushine downfield
Tartan Tattlers. . .The Tartans are at 
home next week, matched against the Thiel 
Tomcats... Thiel is off to there best start 
in recent memory, with a 3-1 record after 
four games .. . The Tartans defeated Thiel 
50-11 last season. .. Left tackle Robert Butts 
sprained his ankle late in the second quarter. 
Ken Urban moved from the Go team to the 
white team, and Cam Poluszek moved from 
right tackle, where he had split time with 
Mike Davis, to left tackle. The Go team line 
led a 90 yard drive in the third
quarter. .. Nick Klipa broke his string. He 
had thrown two passes in his career, both in
tercepted. His only pass yesterday fell in
complete. . . Senior Jim Scarpone had a 
CMU career high 30 yards on nine car
ries. .. Lee Andre split his forehead open, 
but the severe cut required no stitches and 
he returned to the game.. . The WRCT 
player of the game was Hensel. The Tartan 
sports staff chose Mike Paterchak. . . Car
roll had his first two catches of the season.
CMU 24 HIRAM 8
1234T
CMU7107024
HIRAM00088
te Garverick (42) carries the ball into the line
CMU- Zito 1 run (Fleischman kick)
CMU- Fleischman 22 FG
CMU- Hensel 9 pass to Behling (Fleischman kick)
CMU- Hensel 5 run
H- Kovach 17 run (Roliff pass to Collins)
CMU H
First Downs 17 11
Rushing- Yards 55*221 46-28
Passing 9-16-131 14-25-106
Total Offense 352 134
Had Intercepted 1 1
Fumbles-lost 5-4 1-1
Individual Statistics 
Rushing-CMU- Collaros 15-67, Hensel 9-61, Garverick 11-33, Scarpone 
9-30, Minjock 5-14, Zito 4-9, Smith 2-7. HIRAM Overly 16-37, Kovach 
12-36, Roliff 13-(-45).
Passing-CMU- Zito 4-6-55-1, Hensel 5-8-76-0, Klipa 0-1-0 0. HIRAM 
Roliff 14-25-106-1.
Receiving-CMU- Roble 4-78, Carroll 2-33, Behling 1-9, Richards 1-6, Col 
laros 1-5. HIRAM- Collins 6-47, Overly 3-24, Warburton 3-22, Gorcica 
1-9, Kovach 1-8. (All statistics are unofficial, compiled by C.D. Lewis.)
'RCT expanding, diversifying sports department
THOMAS MENNER
rtan Staffwriter 
^CT (the campus radio station) is
3wn primarily for its diverse musical pro|roming. However, the station is currently 
m8 to expand and improve its sports 
Jartment. The department itself is staffed 
^a'e Schott, Neil Greenblum, Jeff BergHoward Ellen, Matt Pritts, Phil Hoi3erg and Dave Lauren. At this time 
[ T is Broadcasting C-MU football, with 
3^1 an doing play-by-play and Greenblum 
Hott doing color'comme'ritary for the
Tartan home opener against Duquesne last 
Saturday. Last year WRCT also broadcast 
other sports, including Ellen covering the 
hockey club games and Pritts doing basket
ball games. However, coverage of the buggy 
races draws the largest listening audiences 
and last year the entire crew made a con
certed effort to produce quality coverage. 
Unfortunately, past sports broadcasting has 
been plagued by technical difficulties and 
station problems. The production of live 
game coverage (with personnel ^roadcastihg; engineering, and station m'oYtitoring) is
subject to mishap, whether technical or 
human. Also, WRCT is not really sportsoriented, and therefore tends to overlook 
sports programming as a viable feature.
However, plans are being made to improve 
the sports departments output. More 
hockey club and basketball games are being 
added to the broadcast schedule. Improve
ments are also planned for the equipment, 
starting with the acquisition of new 
headsets. But perhaps the most interesting 
expansion of the sports department is the 
possibility of a- half-hour weeklytalk h^w.
The show would concentrate on C-MU and 
Pittsburgh-area sports, and would include a 
featured guest speaker and a call-in format. 
The whole department is involved with the 
project, and is slated for implementation by 
early October (subject to station approval).
With the improvements in sports broad
casting WRCT adds yet another facet to its 
remarkable programming structure. The 
sports department hopes to establish itself as 
an integral (as well as popular) part of the 
station by improving the scope and quality 
of its- output.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 2, 1984
 DUKE 
THE FUQUA 
SCHOOL 
OF BUSINESS
MBA
The Fuqua School of Business at Duke 
University offers one of the finest available 
opportunities for unsurpassed professional 
management training. We are interested in 
men and women who have proven aca
demic, leadership, and social abilities.
Andrea S. Hershatter 
Assistant Director 
of Admissions & Financial Aid
of the Fuqua School 
will be on campus
Friday, October 19
Appointment information may be obtained 
by contacting:
Office of Career Services 
and Placement
(vs. Geneva) and 4-1 (vs. California) certainly 
showed that.
Against Geneva, CMU won 5 of 6 singles 
matches. Andrea Behowitz won her match 
after a close first set, 7-5, 6-2. Lorena Miller 
made quick work of her opponent 6-1, 6-4. 
Laurie Arendas won her match 6-1, 7-6. 
Daina Bahaummers made a fantastic com
eback winning 3-6, 6-2, 6-0 against one of 
Genevas twin McCracken sisters, Julie. Darla 
Messick also made a great comeback in 
beting Genevas other McCracken, Diane, 
4-6, 6-3, 7-5. CMUs only loss in singles was 
the match of Leslie Inglese, who was beaten 
4-6, 0-6.
In doubles play, CMU won only one of three 
matches. First doubles Liza Reed and Laurie 
Arendas lost a very close match 6-3, 1-6, 6-7. 
Claire Palmgren and Sally Yanchus lost
another tough match, 6-2, 5-7, 4-6. Andrea 
Behowitz and Amy Shaw captured CMUs 
only doubles victory, 6-2, 6-2.
Coach Fall had nothing but positive 
things to say about the Geneva match. She 
was particularly pleased with the play of No. 
1 and 2 singles (Daina and Darla) who 
showed a lot of fight and spirit to come back 
and win the third set. Coach Fall also said 
the teams hard work in practice is beginn
ing to show, and that she is very proud of 
the teams spirit.
In the freezing cold of last Friday, the 
team beat California of Pennsylvania 4-1.
In singles, CMU went 2-1, as both Darla 
Messick and Lorena Miller won their 
matches. In the other singles match, Coach 
Fall said Daina Bahaummers played really 
continued on page 17
Soccer bounces back
Women's tennis wins two
From start to finish, the Carnegie-Mellon 
soccer team dominated Hiram on Saturday, 
brushing the visitors aside by a 4-0 score.
Charlie Lockhead lead an intense offen
sive attack with three goals, while the defense 
protected goalie Sam Montague almost to 
perfection. Altogether, the Tartans outshot 
their opponents 33-2 on the afternoon.
Coach Nick Gaudioso was impressed with 
his teams dominance of territorial play, but 
he says the squad needs to make better use 
of the numerous scoring chances it creates.
Our big problem is that we have to 
capitalize on our scoring opportunities, 
remarded Gaudioso.We were ready for this 
game after a long week of practice, and I 
think it showed, but with a balanced scor
ing attack like we have, we have to get it 
together.
CMU got on the scoreboard early in the 
game after a penalty kick was called direct
ly in front of the goal. Neil Frink booted the 
ball past goalkeeper Dave Wood from about 
20 feet away.
The Tartans continued to pressure the 
Hiram defense constantly following the goal. 
Doug Anderson and Lockhead were unable 
to convert long-distance set-ups from Kevin 
Jung and Alex Tomlinson, who were keep
ing the ball in the Hiram zone with outstan
ding work at midfield. Lockhead hit the 
crossbar with a blistering drive from 50 feet, 
and a header by Alan Mayr cleared the net 
by inches from inside the crease.
The second goal came on a fluke play. 
Lockhead inbounded the ball toward the 
Hiram goal, with CMU attackers creating 
confusion in front. The ball glanced off the
head of a Hiram defender and into the goal.
Lockhead took Hiram by surprise only 45 
seconds into the second half when he head
ed a crossing pass past the outstretched 
hands of Dave Wood. It was now in evidence 
that the Hiram defense was beginning to 
tire, after withstanding a first half onslaught 
by Tartan strikers.
Owen Ranta excited the small crowd with 
two dazzling scoring opportunities in the se
cond half. Ranta dribbled smoothly around 
several Hiram defenders on both occasions, 
bearing in at a tough angle on the goal. The 
first time, he unsuccessfully attempted to set 
up Doug Anderson cutting directly in front. 
After Dave Wood made a fine stop on Runtas second opportunity, Charlie Lockhead 
barely missed converting the rebound into 
a score.
The final goal came with 4:30 left in the 
game. Kevin Jung tapped the ball back to 
Neil Frink on a direct kick. Frink kicked the 
ball past a wall of Hiram defenders, leading 
Charlie Lockhead toward the right side of 
the goal. Lockhead deflected the ball into 
the goal on a beautifully timed kick.
The Tartans will take on Geneva on 
Thursday at lech Field. There will be a 3:30 
starting time. Its a big game for us because 
Geneva is a good team. It will be a test of 
how well we can work together, said Coach 
Gaudioso.

The CMU womens tennis team continued 
to roll last week, winning two home matches 
against Geneva College and California 
University of Pennsylvania. In both matches, 
CMU dominated Dlav, and the scores of 6-3
OCT4 
500mSKIBO II

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1984The TartanPage 17
Baseball dub loses, field hockey edges Chatham
continued from page 16
well, however she lost a tough three set 
match. It was really a great match to watch.
In doubles play, the first team of Liza 
Reed and Laurie Arendas made quick work 
of their opponents, as did the new team of 
Leslie Inglese and Andrea Behowitz.
The teams next home match is next Sun
day, at 1:00 pm against Robert Morris 
College.

Led by fans cries of Blood, blood makes 
the grass grow! the CMU womens field 
hockey team last week defeated Chatham 
College 2-1 in a closely fought battle that ex
tended into two overtime periods. The win
improved the Tartans record to 2-1 on the 
season (they lost to Bethany 3-0 earlier in 
the week), while the Chatham Seals fell to 
a 1-2 mark. This was the teams first regular 
season meeting this year, but they had 
deadlocked at 1-1 in the pre-season Pennwood West Conference tournament at 
Bethany.
Through the first half there was no scor
ing, although there were some anxious 
moments for both teams. CMUs Donna 
Nyzio had several nice shots, while the 
defense did a good job keeping Chatham 
from penetrating too deep into Tartan 
territory.
The Seals, however, broke through first as
forward Doris Ross scored to put Chatham 
up 1-0. But the Tartans came roaring back 
as Laura Ciarallo took a Lynn Otto pass and 
put it in the net to tie the game.
The score stood at 1-1 through the rest of 
the second half despite fast-paced, almost 
frantic play by both teams. Finally, 3/4 of 
the way through the second 10-minute over
time period, Laura Karetzky (with an assist 
from Mary Ann Sacco), put the Tartans 
ahead for good.
After a three-game road trip, the field 
hockey team will return for its final home 
game of the year against arch-rival Bethany 
College on October 9. The game will be played at 4:30 in Tech Field.
Playing in weather perhaps more ap
propriate for football than baseball, the 
Boyce Community College Saints defeated 
CMU by a score of 10-1 last week. This drops 
the baseball clubs record to 1-8, while Boyce 
is now 5-14. Rich Hall was the starting pit
cher and took the loss, with John Spanos 
relieving in the 7th inning.
The Saints struck first, scoring a run in 
the second inning. Second baseman Kevin 
Lazor took two bases after his fly ball got 
away from CMU right fielder Paul Misalsky, 
and scored on a ground rule double by Joe 
Curran.continued on page 18
photo by Mike Kelly
Tartan field hockey team members scramble for the ball
 e
" take  liotcfj 
funded by s^uderrf ocfivifics fee.
mammcm* m w ymcmKmumme mm
CMU #1
CAPRI PIZZA # 1
fcr friendly Service and the Best Products 
We Use 1CC% Pure Mozzarella Cheese,
Dc ethers?
LARGE 1C CUT PIZZA 
INCLUDING 2 LITERS CF PEPSI
$3.50
ECP LUNCH & DINNEP

iII
I
EAT IN CP PACK RRP
PIZZA-Z
Order your favorite 
with all the extras1
fCCE DELIVERY <S:CC PM-2:CC AM 
OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK 
341<5 ECPBES AVE. ECU. PA, 1J213 
PECNE 681-22C2 CE C81-22C3
II
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 2, 1984
Rugby: CMU's newest sport
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of many 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates.
This year, nearly half of our 1,500 technical 
hires will be in Electrical/Electronic Engineering 
and Computer Science  goal-oriented, highperformance students who will graduate in the 
top half of their classes.
If you are one of these top performers, explore 
the wide range of opportunities available in the 
following technologies: Aeronautics, Advanced 
Signal Processinq, Radar Systems, Embedded
Software, Lasers and Electro-optics, Composite 
Structures, VLSI, Non-linear Structural Analysis, 
Robotics and CAD/CAM.
At General Dynamics, you will work with our 
innovative professionals in applying these 
technologies toward a wide variety of aerospace, 
computer systems, electronics, shipbuilding and 
military land vehicle programs. Plus, you can stay 
current in your field and make the most of your 
career through our corporate-wide training and 
lifelong education programs.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in<your 
career. See your Placement Office for a campus 
interview with General Dynamics.
By DUANE GALBI
Tartan Stafficriter
Amid the students trying to catch the last 
of the summer rays, the Rugby Club pre
pares for its upcomeing fall season.
The mens team, led by co-captains Rob 
Sandersan and Chris Dunne, opens its fall 
season in two weeks against Wheeling Col
lege. Due to the teams club status, it doesnt 
have an official home field. Although at least 
thirty people are active in the club, more 
than some intercollegiate teams, it lacks 
direct access to the use of school facilities. 
The game against Wheeling was set up as a 
home game for the Tartan rugby players, but 
the lack of a home playing field will probaby 
force them to travel to Wheeling for their 
opener.
The womens rugby team led by co
captains Suzy Raginsky and Jyl Luria also 
opens their fall season soon. This year it is 
made up of twenty-eight members of which 
five are returning veterans. Because of the 
added interest in womans rugby shown by 
the large turnout for the team, the team is' 
planning to increase their schedule from two 
to five games a season.
According to three year veteran Sander
san, the mens team will be more than ready 
for their opener. With eleven other veterans 
returning besides himself, the team has a 
strong nucleus of experienced players from 
whom the new players can learn. The team 
doesnt have an official coach, but the 
legendary "Howard has stepped forward to 
fill the gap.
This year the teams Pack should be espe
cially strong according to Sandersan. The 
Pack is the key to winning rugbys version of 
the face off, and therefore a strong pack is 
the key to any successful team. The Backs, 
the other element to a rugby team, are also 
"improving greatly according to 
Sandersan.
Ever since the mens rugby club was first 
formed by some brothers of ZBT, it has 
grown and diversified. The club now draws 
from all over campus. With rugby being a 
sport combining the endurance of soccer 
with the contact of football, most of the 
players are former soccer or football piayers, 
but novices are welcome. The team practices 
on Tuesdays and Thurscays at 5 pm on Flag
staff Hill. Newcomers are always welcome.
Answers to last weeks 
crossword puzzle
Women's, men's rugby fall
run fourth inning. Although Hall sur
rendered several solid hits, he "was victimized 
by poor defensive support. A possible ex
planation for the four CMU errors in the in
ning was the bitterly cold weather and the 
hard infield at Mellon Park.
CMU has one more game left in the fall 
season. They face off against Point Park 
Wednesday, Octobor 8, at 3:00 pm. The 
contest will take place at Mellon Park, Fifth 
and Penn Avenues, about 1 1/2 miles from 
campus.
#
CMU Womens Rugby played their debut 
game of the season last Saturday, losing a 
hard-hitting game to IUP, 28-4.
CMU, with seven returning players from 
last years newborn team, found IUP offen
sively stronger in the first half. CMUs eightwoman scrum overpowered the IUP scrum 
time and time again, but the CMU backs 
were out-run and out-tackled by the more 
experienced Indiana team. The score at the 
half was 24-0.
CMU seemed to wake up in the second 
half and returned to the field with revenge 
in mind. Pam Mott, the teams fullback and 
kicker, scored CMUs only try, dodging IUP 
players on a long run into the try zone. 
When the second half was over, the CMU 
scrum and backs had held IUP to one try, 
and the final score was 28-4.
The CMU men traveled to Washington, 
D.C. last weekend to play American Univer
sity. In their first game of the season, the 
men lost an injury-ridden game to 
Wheeling.
Compiled by Tartan Staffwriters 
Paul Masalsky, John Friedman, Pauline 
Wen, David Katz.
continued from page 17
CMU score its only run in the third inn
ing. Rich Theg, the CMU catcher, slammed 
a double into deep center field, and, after 
Steve Orlando drew a walk, touched the rest 
of the bases following a Bill Yankovitch twobagger. Interestingly, all three CMU doubles 
in the game were ground rule doubles. If 
they had not been ruled as such, at least two 
more Tartan runs would have scored.
Boyce broke the game open, with a five
DKMKeAt inMAgsRf
An Equal Opportunity Employer;U S. Citizenship Required
CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATE:
October 25

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
/ 1EAH. \ 
'{ou KNOW, \ 
Those people \ Who always \ seeta To show 
W when Tour . PfcZA> MR\S? 
^-^HERE,\Mi\TCH
P22V
XULTUfcE?
Joe FreshmanByMark Levine
WHAT'S THe uo/e P&P_ 
THI Tf/Vte ?JUST
for THe 
rpiNia6
To P/*S..
Poindexter By Maszle and Beyer
ACROSS 
1 Fish eggs 
4 Paid notice 
6 Take unlaw
fully 
11 Current 
breakdown 
13 Wanted
15 Pronoun
16 Thicket
18 Dwell
19 Greek letter
21 Repetition
22 Compass 
point
23 Second-rate 
horses
26 Employ 
29 Tardy 
31 Encounter
33 Note of scale
34 Hebrew 
month
35 Three-toed 
sloths
38 River in 
Scotland
39 Exists
40 Pronoun
41 Lavish fond
ness on
43 Back of neck 
45 Everyone 
47 Sea nymphs 
50 Printers 
measure
52 Need
53 Pronoun 
56 Verso, e.g.
58 Showy flower
60 Morning
61 Click beetle 
63 Come on
the scene
65 Mixture
66 Rupees: 
abbr.
67 Nod 
DOWN
1 Debauchee
2 Expel
3 Latin con
junction
4 Greek 
marketplace
5 Railroad 
station
6 Scoffed
7 Symbol for 
tellurium
8 Lampreys
9 Farewell!
10 Unit of
Bulgarian
currency
12 Alternating 
current: 
abbr.
14 Prefix: down
17 Stalk
20 Likely
24 Conduct
25 Diocese
27 Slide
28 Comfort
29 Tibetan 
priest
30 Son of Adam
32 Care for
36 Electrified 
particle
CROSSWORDPUZZLE
FROM COLLEGE 
PRESS SERVICE
37 Airplane54 Character in
attendantOthello
42 Periods55 Merganser
of time56 Hebrew letter
44 Hard-wood57 Priest's
treevestment
46 Lawful59 Note of scale
48 Go in62 Printers
49 Newspapermeasure
paragraphs64 Symbol for
51 Apportionrubidium
 1983 United Feature Syndicate. Inc 
answers to last weeks puzzle on page 18
STUDENT
SENATE
VACANCIES
1
1
1
Petitions are available at the Skibo Info Desk, and are due October 12 
at 5:00 pm. For more information call Eric Rocher at x4795.
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.____________________
Birnbach writes false view of CMU
Thank goodness we came to CMU before 
Lisa Bimbach, author of College Book.
It used to be you went to Camegie-Mellon 
University to act, she writes. Now you go there 
to hack.
Ah so thats it. we werent attracted by 
superior programs in English, engineering, ar
chitecture, psychology, biology, industrial 
management, or history.
Were Socially inept, and while the  
facilities ... just suck, ... nothing really mat
ters as long as kids can continue computing. 
The worst thing[s] about the school is there 
are only three types of CMU students : (1) 
greasy-haired, unkempt, science major, hacker; 
(2) New Yorker, Fine Arts major, punk new 
wave; (3) typical Western Pennsylvanian.
If you cant Fit yourself into one of those 
categories, youre not alone.
Bimbachs examination of CMU is shallow 
at best. When did she draw her conclusions, 
after a single dinner at the Tartan Grill (which, 
by the way, she bills as a popular on-campus 
hangout)?
One of CMUs greatest attributes is its ec
lectic mix of students, living together and 
sharing ideas: architects and engineers play
ing hackeysack on the cut, business and math 
majors working as DJs on WRCT. Almost every 
department is represented on The Tartan staff.
Were CMU simply a science school or a 
liberal arts school, its cope would be that 
much smaller. But one of its greatest assets is 
the diversity of its student population and the
wide range of interests outside their majors 
students pursue.
Its a shame Evening Magazine came with 
Bimbachs shallow representation in mind. 
There is a minority of students who fit her 
stereotype, and indeed, if the show plans to ex
ploit this and call the minority representative 
of the whole, the door is open. Families will 
once more be inundated by boring shots of peo
ple typing away at terminals.
But as for the rest of us, there is little reason 
to take Bimbachs summations seriously. She 
has overlooked all but a narrow segment of 
CMU life which is unfortunate for non-hackers 
but is even more unfortunate for her as it ex
poses a fundamental lack of understanding of 
the genre of analytical journalism.
The Libertarian Alternative
Reagan fails to fulfill
By Dan Tobias
In this issue, I will begin a series of col
umns focusing on the upcoming presiden
tial election, discussing what options those 
who favor individual liberty have.
First, lets take a look at 
Ronald Reagan. During his elec
tion campaign in 1980, he made 
many promises which are attrac
tive to people who favor individual liberty. 
He promised to end draft registration, 
reduce the size and scope of the federal 
government, cut taxes and government spen
ding, and many other pro-liberty things. But 
let us now examine his actual record.
Reagan not only didnt repeal draft 
registration, but he increased the govern
ments efforts to compel all young men to 
register. He made college financial aid of
fices into draft, law enforcement agents. In 
addition, the government has purchased 
mailing lists of young people from private 
companies in order to cross-check them 
against draft registration records. They are 
even checking the records of an ice-cream 
parlor chain with which numerous kids have 
registered their birthdays in Order to get free 
ice cream,so that when these kids reach the 
age of 18, they can be pestered by the 
government to register. Are these the actions 
of a President and administration which op
pose the draft?
During his 1980 campaign, Reagan pledg
ed an increase in state rights as opposed to 
the federal government. He termed this a 
new federalism. However, this year, he sign
ed a bill which is a grave violation of this 
principle, as well as an affront to the rights 
of young people. I am referring to the new 
law requiring all states to raise their drink
ing age to 21, or suffer loss of part of their 
federal highway funds. Actually, I dont 
think the federal government should be in 
the business of supplying highway funds to 
states in the first place, but I still object to 
their use of these funds to bully states into 
trampling on the rights of young adults. 
These people who will be denied the right 
to drink are the same ones who must register 
for the draft. This shows how little Reagan 
cares for young Americans; I cant see how 
anybody of college age can, in good cons
cience, vote for Reagan.
Now to the subjects where Reagan made 
the most pro-freedon statements; the 
economic areas. He did indeed cut income 
tax rates; this is one of the positive things 
he has done. Now the Federal government 
does not confiscate more than half of 
anybodys money through the income tax; 
they formerly could steal as much as 70 per
cent in the highest bracket. However, 
Reagan has also signed some of the most
liberty promises
massive tax increase bills in history, calling 
then revenue enhancements. With these 
new taxes, much of peoples hard-earned 
money is taken away in taxes other than the 
income tax, so that even relatively lowincome people might have half or more of 
their income go to the government. Still, a 
democratic president is likely to have in
creased taxes even faster, so I guess in this 
issue, at least, Reagan is the lesser of two 
evils.
On government spending: Despite all the 
hoopla and furor surrounding Reagans sup
posedly massive cuts, all he has actually done 
is to slow the growth of the governments 
spending. This is simply not good enough. 
We need actual decreases in government
spending if we are to eliminate the massive 
deficits the government is running every 
year, and if we do now want taxes to increase 
to confiscatory levels. But to do this, what 
is needed is a massive re-evaluation of the 
basic functions of government, not just 
piecemeal cuts which can be easily opposed 
by special-interest groups. The taxpayers are 
the biggest group of all, and if they send the 
government a message that they oppose the 
massive government spending on principle, 
they can defeat the narrow groups. But, only 
the Libertarians have such a consistent 
philosophy. Reagan, despite his rhetoric, 
does not oppose government spending in
creases on the whole; his massive military in
creases are a good example of this. Even his
social cuts that the liberals howled so much 
about are mostly a slowdown in the growth 
of these programs, rather than any serious 
threat to politics as usual for government 
social-service agencies. For example, Reagan 
originally promised to abolish the depart
ments of Education and Energy; but they are 
still there, and their budgets have even got
ten increases.
Of course, in areas where conservatives are 
traditionally anti-liberty, Reagan has done 
little to disappoint them. He is attempting 
to increase government legislation of morali
ty, and impose religious doctrines on the 
public. He has escalated the war on drugs, 
which puts an increasing amount of taxcontinued on page 22Tragedy: downfall of great one brought on 
by his fans; "King" pushed beyond limit
By Christopher D. Lewis
A tragedy has taken place among us, a 
tragedy that many may not realize. The 
demise of a world1 wide hero, a manlooked 
up to as the best that has ever lived at what 
he did.
vjy In a New York hospital, this 
man was diagnosed him as havjj ing somethingcalled Parkinsons 
disease. This writer knows very little about 
Parkinsons disease and knows little about 
its effects. But I do know how this great man 
contracted it. He was too good at what he 
did.
Due to this fact, people coaxed him, and 
maybe he coaxed himself, to keep trying to 
be the best, even though he was the best no 
more. People knew what he once was, and 
there was no one to take his place, so they 
wanted him to be great again.
He was too old. He went against the new 
king of the hill, and he was beaten. It was 
a sad sight, the loss of the worlds finest, to 
a man who had the skill, perhaps, but not 
the style nor the panache of the hero.
One has to wonder, where does the desire 
to go on pursuing the best turn into the sub
conscious will for one person to end 
themself, and their dream.
Those who were close to him, his wife and 
children, witnessed the demise. Those of us 
who were not close to him but were in awe 
of him were not so aware. In recent public 
appearances, there were noticeable slurs in 
his speech, a slowdown in response time. It 
made me very sad recently, watching this 
great world hero being interviewed on na
tional television. I recalled the poetry he 
recited, the crispness of his words. I 
wondered why.
This downfall raises many questions
about his profession. This man may have 
been the best there ever was, and he may 
die due to a horrible disease caused, in part, 
by his profession. One wonders how many 
lesser known, less publicized cases there are 
of people in this line of work getting this 
disease or another form of mental deteriora
tion. If he was the best, than others must 
have been defeated more, mentally battered 
more than the great one.
At this point in my life, I am young, I 
have not seen a lot. I do not remember the 
assassinations of American heroes of the 
1960s. I do not remember well the killing 
of American soldiers in a war we shouldnt 
have been involved in. I will remember the 
demise of this hero for as long as I live. He 
has been spoken of as the most famous man 
in the entire world.
I, although not an expert nor qualified 
to make to many judgments, I am going to 
make one here. I hope the people learn from 
this. The public, fans of and rulers of the 
profession talked about. There are limits to 
people, limits to everyone, and when weOpinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those o/The Tartan 
Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writers address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan resen>es 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
drive people past those limits, tragedies, as 
in this case, may occur. Physical, mental 
and emotional tragedies, and all three have 
happened here.
I would like to thank Muhammed Ali, for 
all the thrills he brought us doing what he 
did so well. I wish him luck in pulling 
through this horrible pitfall in a life that ha? 
had its ups and downs. I would like to note 
that I abhor all who gave him the oppor 
tunity to do what he did.
Editor in Chief..........................Ric Medro# I
Managing Editor ......................Mark Levine
Business Manager...........Neil J. Greenblufl
News Editor...............Christopher D. Lewis j
Features Editor...................Neal W. Johnston t
Entertainment Editor...............Lesley Brunker j
Sports Editor..................................Scott Bo*
Photography Editor....................Mike Pilews*0
Production Manager.......Michele Reising#
Ad Manager....... .....................Steve Volan |
Typesetting Manager .............................Jill
Art Director.................Michel A Sussm3'11
Contributing Editor.................Pauline W#11
Asst. News Editor........................Karen GH\
Asst. Ent. Editor........................AdamHanJ
Assc. Business Mmgr..................
Editorial Assistant.............\.m .Mohan En^|
Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, ^ar^Lj| 
Azrak, Dennis Cohen, Don Eggert, T*na^at<!v| 
Duane Galbi, Arthur Gelmis, Dorothy 
Dave Moskowrtz, Katrin Wesner, Jay Wes* 
Copyright  1984 by The Tartan. The Editorial 
reserves the right to withhold from publicat^^J 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111 Business Of,ioeS:,11i 
52, (412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578  1 
Mailing jddress: Box 17, Schenley Park ^
PA 15213.

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1984The TartanPage 21
SOMfNHKR
Benefit! iRkQ 
NfekWWfU&
YtttfSOUfc
voaratf
VERSIAM SlllF OIL
CMU strives for scandal; ity media cooperates
By Bill McCormick
Well, fellow CMUers, I hope you can set 
Dur beers down long enough to plan our 
|tr?.tegy for the media.
concerning fraternity rush 
very well. As you 
we told the press that 
fraternities took a positive 
step by not serving alcohol at 
rush events. Of course we knew 
the media would pervert our story and 
us as the drunkards that we are... 
The Post-Gazette was our first victim. It 
sallowed our story, putting our drunken 
[ndencies on the front page, right where we 
int them. Of course, our coup-de-gras of 
st years rush was relived, along with the 
Iher usual drivel. But then came the 
Ighlight. There it was, in printsororities 
|rve alcohol. I didnt think that the Postzette would be gullible enough to buy that 
Well have to be more aggressive next 
le.
The TV stations were an easy mark, once 
ley read the story in the Post-Gazette. They
CPS
"Quirky" Greek rushee 
relates experiences
came rolling out in full force (and fullcolor). They interviewed our representatives 
and then, joy of joys, went into a fraternity 
house and filmed brothers pouring beer. 
What visual impact! We could have only 
done better if we got live coverage. (Maybe 
if we work a little harder next time...)
I dont want you to get complacent. Pitt 
was mentioned in the article, and we all 
know about Duquesnes successes. No, if we 
want to be the most scandal-ridden school 
in Pittsburgh, we are really going to have to 
work hard. Maybe we can start to bring back 
drugs. How about a good sex scandal involv
ing the administration? A mass riot would 
also do the trick. If you have any suggestions, 
please let me know. Im in the senate office 
on Tuesday from 11:30 to 12:30 and on 
Fridays from 12:30 to 1:30. Please hurry  
were going to need something big when Pitt 
exposes its dry rush as a sham.
Bill McCormick is president of student 
government and writes a column for The 
Tartan.
By Amy Stempelt
My experience with Rush was unique. It 
began when I realized all my friends were 
guys (an abnormal complaint, especially for 
me). Eventually, however, I became aware 
that it is difficult to discuss the 
| merits of certain members of the 
opposite sex in a roomful of 
young men, each of whom is 
ready to convince you that he is the one 
youve been looking for.
Once I decided that I needed to go 
through Rush, I went and registered. I may 
as well tell you this was the last thing Ive 
done that has gone off without a hitch. The 
next thing I knew, I was at an ice cream 
social, and the ice cream table was at my 
feet. I swear I didnt knock it over! All I 
could to was laugh. When my roommate 
told me to be myself, she really didnt know 
what the sororities were getting themselves 
into.
The first-round parties were interesting. 
Everything was new, and since I had only 
twenty minutes at each house, I usually 
found something to say. As the rounds pro
gressed and the parties became longer and
Deficit action 
appears inept
By Stuart Shapiro
Its a bit of a job to attempt to compare the 
positions of the Republican and Democratic 
presidential candidates.
The extreme reluctance of the Republican 
candidate and his handlers to 
take anything that could serious^ ly be called a position in terms
* of issues makes straightforward
comparison difficult and is hardly by acci
dent. Nevertheless, as you have undoubted
ly already guessed, Im going to take a crack 
at it today and over the next few weeks. First, 
an exhilarating exploration of fiscal policy.
First, lets establish one fact right away. 
Ronald Reagan has no business (if youll par
don the pun) taking credit for the recovery. 
His opponents have no business blaming him 
for the recession. Credit for both more pro
perly belongs to Paul Volcker and the Fed 
for squeezing inflation out of the economy 
the old fashioned way. Some less than en
thusiastic thanks is also due the overvalued 
dollar and the resulting influx of foreign 
capital. Its less than enthusiastic since its 
proving to be too much of a good thing as 
our trade deficit heads for outer space. And 
continued on pege 22
more formal (as I realized when I arrived 
at one wearing hot pink, bermuda shorts 
while everyone else was well dressed), I 
began to run out of things to say. So I fell 
back to the old standbys, telling dirty jokes 
and eating. I could tell I was really going 
crazy when I started telling people I had a 
cold and wanted to go home, looking back,
I cannot help but wonder why anyone in
vited me back.
After the Final party I realized I had a 
big decision to make. First I cried, and final
ly I went out. I did not think about it again 
until the next day when I had to make it of
ficial. In the preference room I did 
everything but cry. I even asked Dean Cox 
if she would mind making the decision for 
me.
Now it might sound like Rush was not as 
happy an experience as a lot of people make 
it out to be. However, as it ran its course, I 
began to realize there was definitely one 
house where I felt most comfortable. I felt 
I belonged there. What did I get out of it? 
A place to call home, and a group of friends 
who accept me as the quirky individual that 
I am. They even laugh at my dirty jokes.

Interfratemity Council brings the Na
tional Collegiate Driving Championships to 
C-MU. Students can drive a 1985 Dodge 
Daytona Turbo through a Solo II Rally 
course located in Morewoods Parking Lot. 
The winner will be flown to Daytona Beach, 
Florida, to compete for over $20,000 worth 
of prizes and scholarships. Other prizes will 
be awarded as well! Thats Tuesday and 
Wednesday, octover 9th and 10th from 6-11 
PM in Morewood parking lot. Come Join the 
fun!!
The Greek View is a weekly column written 
in conjuction with the Interfratemity Council in 
The Tartan.
Playhouse shows 
film favorites
continued from pege 13
very funny films Bread and Chocolate (Oct. 
18), and La Cage aux Folles (Oct. 19), In
gmar Bergmans Fanny and Alexander - win
ner of the best Foreign for 1983 by 
Hollywood (Oct. 26), Ben Kingsleys im
pressive performance in Ghandi (Oct. 27), 
and David Leans magnificent epic Lawrence 
of Arabia (Oct. 30).
All seats for the film repertory are $2.95. 
For imformation or a schedule, call 621 4445 
at the Playhouse.
Letters:
The Greek View
Cyert avoids SEI issue
Editor:
That is an astonishing interview, publish
ed in the September 25 edition, in which 
President Cyert explained the proposed rela
tionship between the Department of Defense 
and Camegie-Mellon. Our President seems 
to be saying that the proposed software 
Engineering Institute (SEI) will be able to 
undertake any research for the DoD that the 
University would have to reject as directly 
related to warfare. He seems to view research 
that will advance the arms race as 
unwelcome in the university community not 
because it is destructive, but because it is 
classified, the Universitys strict policy 
against sponsoring classified research can be 
neatly sidestepped by the creation of the 
SEI.
The Presidents answer to, So, you dont 
really anticipate any opposition to the SEI 
on moral grounds...?, as it appears in the 
interview, centers on ...the funds gained 
from it will go back into the University... 
In a tactful way, Cyert is saying that because 
Pittsburgh needs jobs, there is no logical 
basis for objecting to the purpose of employ
ment by the SEI, and because there is no 
logical objection, there is no moral objec
tion to research directly related to warfare. 
When I was an undergraduate at Pitt, I 
studied the criticisms that philosophers, 
beginning with Plato, have written of such 
a shallow moral reasoning.
Kate S. Luxemburg 
Data Analyst, H&SS 
(research staff)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanOctober 2, 1984
Moral indifference should not be practiced
continued from page 21like all good things, it will undoubtedly come 
to an end, possibly all to abruptly.
If our fiscal state of affairs is unchanged 
by the time the party starts winding down, 
the recovery will quickly become a fond 
memory as either inflation or interest rates 
(your choice) start climbing. The principal 
component of that state of affairs is the 
federal deficit. And the last person on earth
who has any right to complain about is Mr. 
gotten remarkably close to his supposed 
Reagan.
He can lay the blame on Congress, but the 
numbers dump it squarely in his lap. The 
difference between what Reagan wanted in 
terms of spending and what Congress gave 
him over three years amounts to onetwentieth of the federal deficit for those 
years. Reagans complaints about the intrac
tability of Congress divert attention from the
fact that in terms of total spending, he has 
targets. The argument that Reagan was con
strained by political realities in preparing his 
budgets does have some merit. But $500 
billion dollars worth?
Mondales deficit reduction plan, on the 
same hand, is not all that impressive. All 
seven pages of it are filled with vagueness at 
just about every point where details might 
antagonize someone. After all, whos against 
prudent management? And, of course, it
Greeks add to community
Tartan opinions too negative
By Michael Ketzenberg 
Trtan Staffwriter
It is unfortunate that most all opinions 
and editorials expressed in The Tartan are 
negative, as you have found if you bothered 
to read my opinion piece last week.
It is true people have an easier 
expressing feelings on subbother them or are 
. opposition to their own ideas.
Furthermore, people are more likely to at
tack an issue that provides an obstacle to 
their way of life simply because it is there. 
The achievements and opportunities for ad
vancement offered in our community, 
however, are rarely presented in opinionated 
form because they do not present an 
obstacle. I am not speaking in a universal 
sense, nor am I making a covering law which 
states that most all opinions are negative in
Reagan tramples young 
American's privileges
continued from page 20payers money in a doomed attempt to sup
press the efforts of underground en
trepreneurs to supply people with substances 
the government would prefer they not use. 
Practically all the problems caused by the 
drug trade which are often cited by Reagan 
could be easily solved by legalizing drugs, 
thus making people free to decide what to 
put in their bodies without Big Brother wat
ching, but Reagan doesnt seem to care. I 
will cover the war on drugs more 
thoroughly in a later column.___________
This column only scratches the surface as 
far as giving the reasons why somebody who 
favors individual liberty should not support 
Reagan. However, I am out of room. Next 
week, I will examine Walter Mondale and 
show that if Reagan is bad for liberty, Mon
dale would be even worse. And, I will 
describe a third candidate who actually 
stands for individual liberty.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math and 
unites The Libertarian Alternative for The 
Tartan.
nature. I am, however, relying on history and 
recurring events to enforce my claim. If I 
find that in this issue most all the opinons 
are optimistic and positive, then trash what 
I have just spent a lot of my energy on, but 
read further.
In light of my earlier argument I present 
the case that the Greek system is a good, 
positive aspect of CMUs social environment.
I think of it, in fact, as a social medium. Just 
as water is the medium in which we swim, 
the Greek System is the medium we use in 
meeting people. The open parties during 
rush offer students an opportunity to meet 
lots of people and create friendships. Frater
nities and sororities help freshmen adjust to 
CMU life and make them feel welcome.
If it were not the case that fraternities 
were on campus, what other means would 
students have in meeting the number of 
students at Rush parties? The sociable at
mosphere created with the presence of 
fraternities and sororities is a much needed 
service to the community. What would hap
pen to the enthusiasm and participation in 
the Buggy Races without the Greek System? 
Michael Ketzenberg is a freshman intending 
to major in information systems and is a columnist for The Tartan.________________
avoids tackling in any detail the touchy pro
blem of controlling the ever growing cost of 
entitlement programs.
Mondales plan does, however, specify the 
inevitable tax increases up front. It is a 
measure of Reagans impact on the national 
agenda that Mondales plan also specifies a 
lower rate of increase in the defense budget. 
And for all its faults, Mr. Mondales proposaj>, 
remains the only one of the table. If Mr. 
Reagan insists that his deficit reduction plan 
was embedded in his budgets, the in
escapable conclusion is that he doesnt have 
one.
Reagans call for the line-up veto and a 
balanced budget amendment beg the ques
tion. If he cant at least submit an attempt 
at a balanced budget, he has no one to con
demn but himself. Reagan cannot in all 
fairness be held accountable for the last 
recession, but hes bought title to the next 
one if the deficits have not been tamed by 
the time the value of the dollar starts its 
reentry into earths atmosphere. Mondale at 
least proposes to do something and has the 
courage to place one of the distinctly less 
thrilling but utterly necessary thingsincreased taxesin plain sight.
Corrections:
Paragraph 10 on page 6 last week of 
Existence of Greeks on campus examined" 
was inaccurate. It should have read Bob 
Fishel, president of IPC, and Sue Mahler, se 
cond vice president of Panhel (an organiza 
tion consisting of members from all five 
sororities on campus), point to unity, leader
ship, working together and friendship as 
strong points of Greeks at CMU that dont 
apply to Colby and Amherst.

The photo on the front page listed th 
person on the left as another staff member] 
Her name is Thelma Mitchell.
ELECTION'.
CRITICAL 
CHOICES
SKIBO BALLROOM 
CARNE6IE-MELL0N 
UNIVERSITY 
I.-NPM
RELIGION IN
BARNEY FRANK - CONG 
CAL THOMAS - VICE PRE
 WEAPONS IN
GENERAL JAMES A. ABRAHAMSON - DIR OF THE 
STRATEGIC DEFENSE INITIATIVE 
ADMIRAL NOEL GAYLER - dHAIRMAN OF THE AME 
COMMITTEE ON EAST-WEST ACCORD CARNEGIE-MELLON 
UNIVERSITY 
PRESENTS
DISTINGUISH Ql^PE AKERS 
DE BALMS THE
CRITKjBgJKiK' 
otbytMik ePPlwP
(WORTH - FORMER DIR 
AND PRICE SIABtlfFY 
>AN - FORMFR MEfcHH 
Of ECONOMIC A&OPEN TO 
FREE ADI
 FOR MORP INFORMATION
CALL SKBOMFOt 57*2107 MM

---------------------------------------------------

October 2, 1984The TartanPage 23
Moskowitz challenges professor's belief on SEI
By David Moskowitz
I would like to convey my impressions of 
a letter to the editor which appeared in last 
weeks Tartan and also relate what I see to 
he the significance of this reply.
The letter was submitted by a 
CMU professor who opposes the 
proposed Software Enginering 
Institute (SEI) project. If I may 
quote his reply, the purpose of a university 
is the propagation of knowledge and culture 
to the student body and the generation of 
new knowledge for the benefit of mankind. 
He goes on to say, The proposed project is 
entirely inappropriate for a university.
I see two possible implications in this 
statement. The first is that this professor truLee: "Major
presidential
By Gene Lee
In this election year, political issues are 
becoming more important to voters.
People want to know what candidates 
stand for; what theyre like. People would 
like to identify with their next 
president, as if he were a kindly 
am uncle or a friendly neighbor.
There are political debates so 
the voter can compare the candidates.
But do regular folks want to know about 
our huge deficit? Nuclear arms? Of course 
not! Who wants to be told that theyre in 
debt? Nobody. That is why I, as a concern
ed voter, am drawing up this list of relevant 
topics. These are issues were all concerned 
about.
A chicken in every pot, a keg in every 
home: This is a little variation of the old 
emocratic promise. The economy isnt as 
dismal as it was in those days, but not 
everyone can afford a keg, let alone a 
chicken. If this promise can be carried out, 
a bad domestic or foreign policy wont 
matter.
Musical tastes: Do we want an acid-rocker 
for a President? A jazz enthusiast? With the 
advent of such media as MTV, this is an issue
ly believes that a university shouldnt be in
volved in such matters. The second possibility 
is that this professor is opposed to any such 
military related project, whether university 
affiliated or not. Reading the rest of the let
ter, I get the idea that the latter is the case, 
but in respect for the writer, I will assume 
the first.
The matter seems not to be concerned 
with the possible benefit to CMU or the com
munity. As related in President Cyerts in
terview in last .weeks Tartan, the benefits 
seem obvious. The real question at hand is 
one of morality. Should a university be in
volved in such a military related project? 
The answer to this question requires a moral
" issues for 
election
that is becoming increasingly important. 
Image is an important aspect of this issue. 
Would Walter Mondale look good with a 
Mohawk? Do studded leather jackets 
become Ronnie? We should consider these 
questions carefully.
Sports: At this point, the edge would have 
to go to Mondale. This is partly because the 
Minnesota Twins will finish with a better 
record than the California Angels. Reagan 
isnt as sprightly as he used to be, either.
Hobbies: Candidate A collects the molars 
of African pygmies. Candidate B tours local 
Washington discos with foreign dignitaries 
Which candidate would you vote for? Or 
perhaps one candidate likes to watch reruns 
of I Love Lucy in the nude, whereas the 
other candidate watches Lucille Ball in the 
nude. I leave this decision to you.
There are countless other topics that 
could be intelligently discussed, but because 
these televised debates are limited to two, the 
candidates should just stick to these major 
issues. If the citizen elects his or her can
didate wisely, we may finally have a true 
president of the people.
choice, based on the morality of the propos
ed project. The necessity of a moral choice 
is my point to be made. The point of the 
professor is that no choice or evaluation 
should be made, no moral judgement should 
be reached. Whether the project is one of 
good or evil, the University must look upon 
it indifferrently.
Notice the general good opinion towards 
the SEI in the campus community. Everyone 
who favors or disfavors the project has made 
a moral choice, whether consciously or sub
consciously, based on the projects nature 
and goals. It seems apparent to me that an 
individual must not look upon a moral issue 
indifferently. To relate a favorite anectdote 
of mine by Ayn Rand, When your impar
tial attitude declares, in effect, that neither 
the good nor the evil may expect anything 
from you  whom do you betray and whom 
do you encourage?
This holds for a university as well. A 
university is, in many ways, metaphysically 
similar to the students and faculty who make 
it up. Both have the gaining of truth and 
knowledge as a goal. Knowledge can be 
divided into two spheres. Positive knowledge,
based on empirical fact, and normative 
knowledge, based on judgement and opi
nion. An individual as well as a university 
in general must seek both types of 
knowledge and be willing to make a com
mitment towards either.
Why was there no protest over the UCC 
or the new antenna on Wean Hall? No moral 
choice was necessary. In regards to the SEI, 
a moral choice must be made. Since morali
ty is a field of normative knowledge, the 
University must have a position towards this 
choice and not feel compelled to remain 
indifferent.
I am not saying that mass elections must 
be held on campus to reach a consensus, but 
that whomevers responsibility this matter is, 
must make the decision. It appears that this 
decision has been made, since the Universi
ty is bidding for the project. This implies 
that the University considers the project to 
be morally good. I agree with this position 
and am eager for the University to par
ticipate in such a worthwhile project. 
David Moskowitz is a sophomore in Civil 
Engineering and writes a column for The 
Tartan.
HAIRCUTTING MODELS WANTED!!
Philip Pelusi Design Team is looking for models 
interested in androgynous/post-modern haircutting 
ideas. Must be willing to make change in present hair 
style. For more info, contact Debbe 261-5050 
Wednesday through Saturday 1  5 pm.
THE ESSEX
122 Meyran  Oakland 681-1944 
(corner Forbes 2nd floor)
Oakland's Department Store
 Bedspreads  Posters  Incense  Lanterns Candles  Window Blinds  Cards (sweet to risqu)  Essential Oils and Body Prodcuts by the Ounce  Beads  Baskets  Lightweight Furniture Backpacks
ALLEGHENY WOMENS 
CENTER
an out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake Morning After Treatment
 Birth Control Related Service
PHONE 412/362-2920ReUegheny ^omens  Center_
Metical Center last BMg. 211 North Whitfield St. Pittsburgh, PA 15204. PHONE 12/3M-W
PREGNANT?dUn't mmn to f 
 *rea pregnancy Mat and 
"toanbai hafe caU
Birthright at 21 -1988
Pregnant? Call ATA
Lets talk about your options
|p""H Caring and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and
related services.
INFORMA TSYEHLCYDESEU
jsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494
tive to Abortion, Inc.
DE A ROAD SCHOLAR RENT FROM NATIONAL
Get owoy and get o free T-shirt.
Getting away this weekend may be easier, more fun, and less expensive than you think.Thats because National rents to 18-year-olds, and gives you clean, sporty cars at low prices. Absolutely no mileage charge.And now a free Road Scholar T-shirt will help make your weekend a great getaway.You can rent at any of the National locations below. All you need is a valid student ID and drivers license. Use a major credit card or submit a cash qualifying application 24 hours prior to rental. You pay for gas and return the car to the renting location.T-shirt offer good while supplies last.
You deserve National attention.'
r
A non praAt nrir-Tvr
Rate available 
from noon 
Thursday to 
6 p.m 
Monday 
Certain daily 
minimums 
apply. Ask for 
details.
.Vjo drv mintntUr ratr apptm hi lhi\ i* \rnniur size t ar und is uifyn f hi I htinqr u itfxml mitnr Spn ith t un \uh/n t hi at
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444  434 Blvd. of the Allies 261-5500

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
dasstfiads
Rapid Report typing is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville Secretarial 
Service, located on William Penn Highway, has even
ing appointments available. 10% discount with valid 
CMU ID.
HELP WANTED: Looking to earn extra cash this 
semester? Become our college Travel Representative. 
Enthusiasm to travel a must. Excellent 
business/marketing majors. Call Bruce at 
1-800-431-3124 or 1-900-434-6000 (NY State only).
Roommate Wanted: Squirrel Hill apt. Great location. 
Quiet. Grad. Student or professional. 521-1974.
Need transportation? Drive a car anywhere in USA. 
Must be 21. References required. Call 828-4813.
Go directly to the talent for male and female 
dancergrams, bellygrams, comedygrams, clowns, 
jugglers, mimes, magicians. The performers collective. 
731-8877.
For Sale: 1973 Buick Century. 350 cu. in. 8 cylinder. 
No rust. Good rubber. Loaded. Beautiful car. $1750. 
Original owner. 261-1505; 421-9208.
OPPORTUNITY for student with electronic ex
perience to build preproduction prototype 
microcomputer-based system. Rewarding one-shot pro
ject or ground floor entry into high-tech career. Send 
brief resume at one to: ESE Incorporated, Route 4, Air
port Park, Petersburg, VA 23803. Attention Diane T. 
Sweeney. Interviewing will be conducted in Pittsburgh 
the week of October 22.
Oakland  For Rent Immediately  large 
2-bedroom furnished, remodeled apartment 1 block 
from university, $410 plus electricity, 655-1872 after
f, PM
ROOMMATE NEEDED IMMEDIATE. Shadyside 
2-bedroom apartment with porch, carpet, central air. 
$182/mo. (heat included) plus electric. Jo-Ellen 
682-5388.
The Dissertation Doctor is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville Secretarial 
Service, located on William Penn Highway, has even
ing appointments available. 10% discount with valid 
CMU ID.
Looking for EE students to build an electronic 
calculator prototype for $$. If interested, call 683-1349.
Academic Bag Ladies  4515 Forbes  682-6886; 
Thursdays 12-1 for lunch, support, sharing; for women 
25 plus.
Papermart  one-stop party shopping. We carry 
everything to make your party a success  great Hallo
ween accessories. Baum Blvd. at Morewood. 681-8900.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the US 
government? Get the facts today! Call 1-312-742-1142. 
Ext. 3401-A.
Energetic Male Singer looking to join or form a 
Rock/New Wave band. Very interested in writing 
originals. Call 683-7851.
It's raining. In your last class, you got back your red
ink-marked test paper. Your girl just told you that she 
isnt. And you have a term paper that needs to be typed. 
What do YOU do? CALL J.A.C.s Professional Typing 
Service at 621-9751, ANYTIME! We listen. We 
understand. 24-Hour Service.
Hand-woven African book/anything' bags. All sizes 
and colors. Only $18.95. Call Bob 682-7508 or leave 
message 682-9580.
1975 Lancia Beta Coupe. Black with tan leather in
terior. Everything new or rebuilt. Solid and clean. $4200 
or best offer. Jim 741-2490 or 421-7854.
Apartment, excellent location. Offers one bedroom, 
remodelled with new kitchen and bath. Ideal for two 
students to share. Only $340 per month, including 
utilities. CMU shuttlebus service at front door. 
682-7010.
BABYSITriNG: I can babysit for your child in my 
Morewood Avenue home. Anytime. Well-educated, 
responsible, mature. Reasonable rate. Call 687-8159.
The Enterprise Corporation 
of Pittsburgh
presents
Entrepreneurs
[lay "Learn how to
" succeed by meeting 
those who have
A One-Day Conference 
Friday, Oct. 12,1984
David Lawrence 
Convention Center 
Pittsburgh, PA
Call 578-3481 
for information
Student Rate 
$30.00
EXOTIC DANCERS  Entertainment for j>arties. 
male and female dancers. Stripper-grams. 931-3255.
Meet interesting people. Play backgammon at The 
College Club. North Craig St. in Oakland at 7:00 PM 
every,Friday night starting September 7.
Looking for Strat-O players to form various sports 
leagues. Jerry 571-0124.
The Ready Resume is now available! Call 
(412)824-6800 for free quote. Monroeville Secretarial 
Service, located on William Penn Highway, has even
ing appointments available. 10% discount with valid 
CMU ID
Edgewood condo. 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, w/w carpeting, 
a/c, appliances, 1st floor, $69,900. 242-8825.
Will type term papers, resumes, etc. at reasonable 
rates. Call Mary Ann at 462-5932.
GOVERNMENT JOBS. $16,559 - $50,553/year. 
Now Hiring. Your Area. Call 805-687-6000 Ext. 
R-5563.
AcA Secretarial Service  Quality typing, low prices, 
pickup and delivery available. For further information 
call 362-TYPE.
Research Papers! 306-page catalog  15,278 topics! 
Rush $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, No. 206M, Los 
Angeles, 90025 (213)477-8226.
Mailing Labels with names and addresses of companies 
that hire scientists and engineers. 600 labels for $20.00. 
Motto Labels with your Motto on them. Semper Ubi 
Sub Ubi. 100 labels with your motto $5.00. Chicago 
Computer Products, PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 
15216.
miscellaneous
October 7,8  Camegie-Mellon Chamber Orchestra 
Werner Torkanowsky conducting, 8:00 PM, Alumni 
Concert Hall, College of Fine Arts, Camegie-Mellon 
University.
Sign up now for Counseling and Student Develop, 
ment Center Workshops. The following workshops are 
offered this semester. Register at Morewood Gardens 
E-Tower, Suite 103 or call 578-2922. Managing Stress 
 Learn how to cope with academic and personal 
pressures, 4 sessions, Tuesdays from 4:30 to 5:30 PM 
October 23-November 13. Families in Transition: A 
workshop for students whose parents are separated 
divorced, and/or remarried, 4 sessions, Wednesdays 
4:30-5:30 PM, October 24-November 24. Eating 
Disorders Group  For persons struggling with eating 
problems such as starvation, binging, or purging, 4 ses
sions, Mondays, 4:30-5:30 PM, October 29-November 
19.
Students selected for awards in the 1985-1986 National 
Science Foundation Minority Graduate Fellowship com
petition, conducted for NSF by the National Research 
Council, will receive stipends of $11,100 for a twelve
month fellowship tenure instead of the current $8,100 
stipend. This recent announcement by NSF also reveal
ed that the cost-of-education allowance to the institu
tion chosen by the Fellow for graduate study will be 
increased from $4,900 to $6,000. The deadline date 
for submission of application for NSF Minority 
Graduate Fellowships will be November 21, 1984. Fur
ther information and application materials may be ob
tained from the Fellowship. Office, National Research 
Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, DC 
20418.
PROFESSIONAL WOMEN ON CAMPUS
[ATOWE]
Luncheon for ALL Campus Community Women
LUNCHEON: Tues. October 9th 
12:00  1:00 pm Wherrett Room 
GUEST SPEAKER: 
Dr. Richard M. Cyert
.. .Dr. Cyert will be addressing the 
first programming event of the Call x3627 for luncheon reserorganization Professional Women on vations. WE LOOK FORWARD 
Campus. The luncheon will com- TO MEETING WITH EACH OF 
mence at noon with Dr. Cyerts YOU!! 
speech to begin promptly at 12:30 
pm.
MARSALIS. $with the Pittsburgh Symphony.. 
classical music like youve never ^
heard it before! j
Trumpeter Wynton Marsalis is No. 1 in both jazz 
and classical music, winning 1983 Grammies in both 
categories. He'll take your breath away when he 
makes his Pittsburgh Symphony debut!
OCTOBER 11, THUR. 8:00 .OCTOBER 12,FRI.8:30 
OCTOBER 14, SUN. 2:30
FOR TICKETS, CALL 392-4900
STUDENT SUBSCRIPTIONS STILL AVAILABLE 
CALL 392-4821 TODAY!
.FW PL6L9EYCMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A
