GEN. ASSEMBLY 
TODAY 11:30 
MUSIC HALL(Ehr (Jaran
JR. PROM. 
PRELIM. 
TICKETS ON SALE
VOL. XVI. NO. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1922
TO AWARD CUP 
AT ASSEMBLY
Announces Scholastic Stand
ing of Fraternities. Speaker 
on Student Friendship 
Fund. Prof. Hower to Talk
MUSIC ON PROGRAM
General Assembly will he held to
day in the Carnegie Music Hall at 
11:30 a. m. An attractive progi-am 
has been arranged and everyone 
should start the new year right by 
attending.
Frank I. Olmstead of the National 
headquarters o the Student Friend
ship Fund will be the chief speaker of 
the morning. He will talk on Amer
ican and European Students Rela
tions. This is a subject which is of 
interest to all students and as Mr. 
Olmstead is in close contact with stu, dents he is very well informed on 
such a subject.
Prof. H. S. Hower of the Physics 
Department needs no introduction to 
most of us. He will talk on Glimpses 
of Student Life in Europe. Professor 
Hower was in Europe all last summer 
and this will be a very good chance 
for American students to compare 
student life of Europe and America.
The annual award of the inter-fra
ternity scholarship cup will be made 
at his time to the fraternity having 
the highest scholastic standing for 
the past year.
Charles Blesch lias arranged for 
some musical numbers which have not 
as yet been announced.
R. O. T. C. CAMP
PICTURES WANTED
All students enrolled in the R. O. 
T. C. are requested, to bring to the 
R. O. T. C. office any pictures which 
they may have taken while at some 
R. 0. T. C. camp. There Is no pref
erence made to whichever camp the 
student may have attended. These 
pictures will be judged and the best 
ill be placed in the 1921-22 Thistle. 
Students are requested to bring them 
as soon as possible.
The R. O. T. C. Department lias 
recently paid to the Juniors and Sen
iors enrolled in this course the sum' 
of $4,000, which is the extent of the 
student payroll.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL OUT SOON
Editorial Contest 
For Undergraduates
In order to arouse the active sup
port ofv every male, undergraduate in 
the United -States and Canada to lib
eral arts courses:, and to refute the 
popular claim that a four-year cul
tural course is time mis-spent, Pi 
Delta Epsilon, honorary collegiate 
journalism, fraternity, has announced 
as the subject for its 1921-22 inter
collegiate editorial contest, The 
Practical Value of a Cultural Educa
tion.,
Thousands of editorials on this subr 
je'ct are exipected, for the contest 
will, this year, be open to every male 
undergraduate in every college and 
university of the United States and 
'Canada. Because great interest in 
this subject has been manifested of 
late* and because of the fact that 
Pi Delta Epsilon will award its cov
eted gold, silver and bronze medals 
to the prize winners, as well as its 
certificate of merit to first prize win
ners in each college and university 
represented, an exceptionally large 
number of entries, is expected.
Harding tot Malfe Awards.
President Warren G. Harding, a 
member of Pi Delta Epsilon, and for
mer editor and present) owner of the 
Marlon (Ohio) Star, will represent 
the fraternity In the presentation or 
awards. Three prominent metropoli
tan newspaiper editors will act as 
final judges.
Nation-wide publicity will be given 
the 1921-22 contest through the As
sociated Press and other news-gath
ering media, and the prize winning 
editorials will be released in mimeo
graphed form, simultaneously, to 
every college, university .and daily 
metropolitan newspaper in this coun
try and Canada, together with photo
graphs of the winners.
This year, Pi Delta Epsilons con
test will be double in scope. A lo
cal contest will be conducted at 
every college and university, and 
each local first prize winner will re
ceive the certificate of merit of the 
fraternity, and will be eligible to 
submit his editorial in the national 
contest. Three prize winners in the 
national contest will receive the Pi 
Delta Epsilon medals.
Name Local Committee.
The following faculty representa
tives have been named by the edi
torial committee of Pi Delta Epsilon 
to supervise the contest at this in
stitution: Dr. Malcolm McLeod,
Prof. Glendinning Keeble, Dean A. 
W. Tarbell. They will act as a com
mittee in selecting local judges, and 
will forward the winning editorial, 
by special delivery, to the fratem(Continued on Page Three.)
BEAUX ARTS AWARDS
The next issue of the Technical 
Journal will be on the campus for 
distribution in about one week. The 
issue will contain many articles of 
special interest to the student body, 
and to the cause of science at large.
Collegiate Six At 
Girls Junior Prom
Hotel Schenley Will be Scene 
of Co-ed Party. Committee 
of Six at Work
Court presentation couldnt be half 
> exciting, could it? Ask any 
Junior.
On the night of the twentieth of 
February, a great aggregation com
posed] of the Juniors and Seniors of 
Margaret Morrison and the College of 
Fine Arts, with their fortunate es
corts, will honor the hall room of 
the Hotel Schenley. It may seem a 
hit conceited to say but this particu
lar Prom bids fair to be just about 
the nicest ever, ^he Collegiate Six 
will furnish the music.
In addition to the Design School 
Juniors and Seniors, who are coming 
for the first time, the girls of the 
Short Intensive Vocational course 
whoi are to be Seniors next year, 
have been invited. It was thought to 
he the only fair thing and that it 
would give the iS. I. V. girls, an op
portunity to Cnter into school activ
ities more fully than before.
The chairman of the committee is 
the class social chairman, Priscilla 
Allison. Her committee is composed 
of Helen McConkey, Frances Bur
rows, Helen Schade, Lillian Coleman, 
(Helen Duncombe and Mary Marshall.
SCIENCE STAG SMOKER
A committee is now working on the 
Science Stag Smoker, to be held in 
the Union, February 18, and they 
promise that it will be the best ever 
held at Tech. They have not yet an
nounced the program, but it should be 
a fine! one. The committee consists 
of Plant, chairman; Sedlacliek, Little, 
Gannon, ^Landis and James. The tax 
will be twenty-five cents and it is ex
pected that every Science man in 
school will be present.
For the benefit of the Pleibes who 
do not know the ropes, a word on the 
smoker would not be amiss.
At the Science Stag, each of the' 
four classes puts on a show. A repre
sentative is appointed for each class 
and it is up to him to see that the 
stunt goes off well. At the end of 
the evening a committee picks the 
class whose work was the most novel 
and entertaining and a prize is given 
to that class. . ,
For the past few years the Sophs 
have car lied off the prize with mon
otonous regularity, while the Plebes 
stunt is usually rather poor. It would 
ibe a feather In the cap of the Plebes 
class if they could put on something, 
this year that would be good enough 
to carry off the prize.
All-Tech Plebe Dance 
Set For Friday, Jan. 20
The Seniors of the Architectural 
Department took honors at Beaux 
Arts Judgment on a design of A 
Church. Mr. P. F. . Simpson was 
awarded a first medal and G. Pauly 
a second medal.
The Juniors following in the foot
steps of their upperclassmen came 
oat on top in an Esquisse Equisse for 
A Village Fire Department. Staples 
was awarded the highest possible, re
ceiving a  first mention, placed first 
and publication. G. A. Blink was 
placed fourth.
An Esquisse Esquisse is a sketch 
usually given at 1:30 ip. m., and due 
at 11:00 p. ni, of the same day. The 
jury at New .'ork is very strict with 
these and Carnegie Tech is to be 
congratulated vpr the work they 
have been turning out along this 
line and others. ,
The Plebes of the four schools 
have nearly completed the elaborate 
preparations for their annual dance 
to be held] Friday night, January 20. 
The dance was originally scheduled 
for December 9, but had to be post
poned. As the new date set is near 
the time for the semester examinations 
the committees have been enlarged to 
lighten the work of each separate 
member.
President Moessner from the Set 
ence Division, appointed the follow
ing committtes:
MusicE. Heilan, M. M. D.; Bank
er, Ind.; H. Smith, Science.
DecorationsHamerschlag, Science; 
Sloade, Arts.
Programs and TicketsNixon, M. 
M. D.; Munhall, M. M/D.; Allison, 
Arts.
EntertainmentKane, Arts; Harris, 
Science.
Maggios First String Orchestra 
will furnish the music. The dance 
will be held on the campus, either in 
die Arts Foyer or the Union and 
Faculty Club Room.
The print shop has some cards on 
press while the Arts students are 
preparing some feature  posters. 
Watch for them.
The Plebes are showing a lot of 
enthusiasm which will surely make 
the dance a success. Patrons and 
patronesses will be invited from all 
four schools. /
INSTALL THETA 
. TAU CHAPTER
Grant Chapter to Gamma Mu 
Epsilon, Local Professional 
Fraternity. University of 
California Dean Present
INITIATE 28 MEMBERS
With the coming of the New Year 
another national' fraternity has come 
to Tech. On January 1, 1922, the
Gamma- Mu Epsilon fraternity was 
installed as Nu chapter of the Tlieta 
Tau fraternity. The installation cer
emony was conducted by Doctor Geo.
D. Louderbaclc, dean of the College 
of Science and Letters, of the Univer
sity of California.
Tlieta Tau is a national profes
sional engineering fraternity admit
ting to membership undergraduate 
and graduate students pursuing any 
of the degree courses given in tho 
College of Engineering. The frater
nity was founded at the University 
of Minnesota in 1904 and now has 
thirteen active chapters and five 
alumni associations.
The active chapters are located as 
follows: Alpha, University of Minne
sota; Beta, Michigan College of 
Mines; Gamma, Colorado School of 
Mines; Deilta, Case School of Applied 
Science; Epsilon, University of Cali
fornia; Zeta, University of Kansas; 
Eta, Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology; Tlieta, Columbia, University; 
Ipta, Missouri School of Mines; Kap
pa, University of Illinois; Lapibda, 
University of Utah; Mu, University 
of Alabama, and Na, Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. Alumni chapters 
are located at St. Paul; Minn.; Cleve
land, Ohio; Chicago, 111.; Globe, Arlzona, and Salt Lake City, Utah.
Theta Tau Js- a professional engi
neering fraternity, and as  such does 
not compete with social or honorary 
fraternities in the election of its 
members. Also there is no distinc
tion made between fraternity and 
non-fraternity men.
Alpha Tau Announces 
Pledges At Assembly
All the last assembly held in tho 
Qollego of Industries, the Alpha Tau 
Honorary Fraternity, announced tho 
election of the following candidate:
FacultyW. By Jones.
SeniorsT. J. Klckler, D. D. Dimancesco.
JuniorsE. F. Beach, B. R. Biever, C. A. Burnell, W. I-I, Douglass,
E. P. Geary, B. N. Greenlaw, B. .1. 
Lynch and F. R. Trechsel.
Director Morris gave a very inter
esting ' talk on the merits of scholar
ship, and Svas very high in Ills 
praise of Alpha Tau and commended 
the men'for their achievement.
Alpha Tau is a National Honorary 
Industrial Engineering Fraternity, 
founded at Tech in May, 1916. Mem
bership requirements ar'e based up
on scholars blip, activity and leadlerehip.
New Students Enroll in 
Night School Courses
The Night School reopened after 
the Christmas holidays on Tuesday 
evening, January 3. A number of 
new students were enrolled during 
last week in various courses in "the 
College of Industries and the College 
of Fine Arts. The following courses 
in the College of Fine Arts are still 
open to new students at this time: 
Architecture, music, sculpture, free
hand drawing, sketching, design, dec
oration, illustration and painting. In 
the College of Industries, new stu
dents can -still be admitted to 
courses in printing, automobile op
eration, mechanical drafting, struc
tural drafting, masonry, carpentry, 
woodwork, sheet metal work, plumb
ing, welding, heating and ventilating, 
pattemmaking, foundry, forge and 
machine shop.
In the night courses of the Col
lege of Engineering, new students 
will not be acceipted before next Sep
tember.
HAMERSCHLAG TO GO TO
EUROPE THIS MONTH
The board of trustees of the Car
negie Institute of Technology has au
thorized President HamorscMag to 
take a three months vacation. This 
vacation will be tho first he has had 
in five years.
The president and Mrs. Hamer
schlag will sail for Europe on the 
George Washington January 17. Theywill land at Cherbourg and from there 
cross the continent either to the Med
iterranean or down through Asia 
Minor to Northern Africa. The 
greater part of their travels abroad 
will he through Tunis and Algiers 
Returning, they will again cross Eu
rope, and embark at one of the North
ern seaports. j t
During the presidents absence Dr. 
Baker will be acting president of the 
school.
It is our sincere wish that Presi
dent and Mrs. Hamerschlag will have 
an enjoyable trip. |
STUDENT COUNCIL 
HAS BUSY SESSION
Campus Week, Commence
ment, and Class Banquets 
Discussed
The Student Council lias formulat
ed a plan for combining Campus 
Week and Commencement Week. 
This plan is to be presented to the 
faculty this week. Under it Com
mencement Week wiiili be advanced to 
June 1, 2 and 3, and Campus Week 
will also be ilield on these dates. Tho 
change has been endorsed, by tho 
Senior classes of all. four schools.
A committee, composed of Godden, 
chairman; Willard and Mills, was ap
pointed to investigate and draw up 
rules for the conduct of future Soph
omore and Plebe banquets. The un
satisfactory way in which thoso 
events have been conducted lias mado 
necessary this action. The commit
tee is also to investigate and deter
mine the responsibility for tho dam
age done to dormitories after the last 
Sophqjnoro banquet.
Council lias recognized some of tho 
organizations as campus activities, 
and lias placod others on probation 
until April 21st. A complete list of 
organizations and tfiolr status will 
appear in the Tartan in tho near fu
ture,
The work of the Ring OommittoQ 
is progressing nicely. A selection of 
designs will probably be made within 
two weeks to be presented to tho 
Council.
In ordor that more attention bo 
given to the appearance of postors, 
etc., on tho campus a standing com
mittee of Buildings and Grolinds was 
appointed. The committee will also 
have charge of the now bulletin 
boards which are to be put up soon 
It is composod of Henderson, Irwin 
and Miss Bughor.
A rovisod scholastic coaching plan 
was presented to the Student Council 
by the Athletic Council. It is to re
place the present method of earing 
for students participating in athletics 
who. get behind in tliolr sch6ol work. 
The.president of tho Student Council, 
under this plan, will appoint mombors of the Senior class to havo 
charge of this work. The plan was 
approved by the Council.
NOTED ENGINEER TALKS
John Mills, one of America's lead
ing electrical engineers, and the au
thor of several technical books deal
ing with the development of the pres
ent system of radio and telephonic 
communication, ^.cldresaed: the stu
dents and faculty of Electrical En
gineering Department last Monday. 
His subject was The Vacuum Tube 
and Its Application.
Mr. Mills had the distinction of be
ing the first person whose voice was 
carried through the ether across land 
and sea fro/n Washington to Honolulu 
when radio telephony reached an ad
vance stage in 1915. He is assistant 
personnel manager of the engineering 
department of the Western Electric 
Company, the research branch of the 
Bell System. At the present time he 
ds visiting the leading technical so
cieties and educational institutions of 
the country giving a course of lec
tures under the auspices of the Amer
ican Institute of Electrical Engineers.
A. I. E. E. MEETING
A member of the Senior Electrical 
class, John C. Gates, Jr., gave a talk 
Thursday night on Bell Telephone 
System before the January meeting 
of the A. I. E. E. Various wiring 
diagrams clearly explained the work
ing of the telephone system through
out the exchanges and the simplicity 
with which a complete telephone cir
cuit operates was explained by Mr. 
Gales.
Pictures from tho Westingliouse 
Company were also a feature of tho 
program and the use of electricity in 
the making of steel rails and the 
transportation of passengers and 
freight gave the members of the 
Tech branch^of the At I. E. E. a birds 
eye view of the rapid strides elec
tricity is taking in the progress of 
industry.
Instead of the regular February 
meeting there will be held an electri
cal banquet which will be open to all 
members of A T E. E. and any 
student* e In the elecThree Day Friendship
Fund Drive Begins
MASON-DIXON 
SEVEN AT PROM
First Time This Orchestra 
Plays For Tech Event. 
Held at Schenley Hotel 
Fri. Eve., Feb. 3, 9 to 2
PRELIM. TICKETS OUT
Tho Mason-Dixon Seven will play 
for the Junior Prom! They are an 
organization locally famous, and their 
presence is sure to put pep into the 
dance. For this reasou the committee 
is proud to announce that this music 
has been secured. Never before lias 
there been a Junior Prom in Pitts
burgh featuring an orchestra of the 
caliber of the Mason-Dixon Seven 
and Skir Young will ho there with 
a new repertoire of songs!
Preliminary tickets are now on sale 
and may be purchased from the com
mittee. Men, buy your tickets im
mediately and do your part in putting 
the Prom across. If you do not se
cure them now tho committee will 
be hindered in making final arrange
ments.
But listen! More about those fa
vorsthey will be just about the best 
souvenirs ever handed out at a Prom 
your girl will got a reail thrill when 
sho sees them. And,' aside from be
ing clever, they are mighty useful, so 
make your date with tJhie girl now 
for you will miss the biggest and 
best dance of the year if you don't, 
attend the Junior Prom. Tho place: 
Schenley Hotel Ball Room. The time: 
February .3, 9 to 2.
But dont forget that preliminary 
ticket. Get it todayNEWS OF THE NEW GYMNASIUM
Tho commltoes In charge of tho ar
rangements for tho new gymnasium 
report that some interesting progresa 
has boon mado but that at tho pres
ent timo nothing is available for publi
cation.
Musical Clubs to
Hold Benefit Dance
Those who are ipilanning to attend 
tho Musical Clubs bonollt dance Fri
day night aro assured of a anost en
joyable evening, , Thoro will bo 
soinolhing doing every mlnuto from 
the' time tho first Iox trot begins un
til tho last bar of the1 home waltz, 
Tho Toch Novelty Orchestra, a mu
sical club organization of six piocoii, 
will furnish tho nvuiaio. Soloists will 
ho prosont in the persons of It. It. 
Sawhiil and Wob Cunningham. Tho 
quartet will bo thoro to livon things 
up with some of tho lato hits. Black
man, cellist of tho Mandolin Club, 
will also bo thoro with Ills big fiddlo, 
and say, dont nils this treat for 
this boy saws a mean fiddlo. Bosldo thoso thoro aro a iow moro nov
el stunts which tho commlttoo aro 
keeping to thomaplvos. Manager 
Jordiy again wishes to oxtond a cor
dial Invitation to ovorybody on tho 
campus. Como out and got acquaint
ed with tho Musical Clubs. .
PRIZE WINNER GOES TO EUROPE
Bennett B. Cardwell of Lynchburg, 
Vu., a graduate of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology in 1917, sailed 
a.' few days ago from Now York for
a. year of advanced study* abroad in 
architecture, as the winner of one 
of tho largest prizes ever offered at 
Tech. The amount was one thou
sand dollars, the donor being a 
friend of the institution, a. resident 
of Pittsburgh, who desires ills name 
withhold. The competition in which 
Mr. Caldwell, while a student at 
Tech, won this award, was held in 
June, 1917,. but on account of war 
conditions in Europe at that time 
he was advised to postpone his work 
In France until now. The subject of 
the competition was the development 
of civic center on the late Mr. 
Fricks property opposite Schenley 
Park entrance, tho tract of land 
which has recently been acquired by 
the, University of Pittsburgh. Mr. 
Cardwell was accompanied by 
wifehis
Final Sales Drive 
For 1922 Thistle
Last Chance to Order Year 
BookCampaign to Run 
From Jan. 16 to Feb. 16.
Tau Sigma Delta
Candidates Announced
The drive for the Student Friend
ship Fund opens today at Tech and 
closes Saturday evening \yith a1 bene
fit dance in the Union.
Do you know that in many coun
tries of Europe the student genera
tion Is fighting against desperate 
odds for just that kind of edu
cation which hundreds of thousands 
of American students are obtaining 
under normal conditions?
That they havo few if any text 
books? That they are In desperate1 
need of food and clothing, and in in
numerable cases the rooms in which 
six' to eight students must live are! 
cold, damp and poorly ventilated. 
Men and women students with even 
these odds against them are strugj gling on!
Cornell, Harvard, Princeton, Mass| achusetts Institute of Technology, 
j Bryn Mawr, Wellsljv, Smith and 
many more colleges j have answered 
j the call. [
! (Continued nn Puee Thr>p 
At the Assembly of the College of 
Fine Arts, Doan Bossange announced 
the candidates for Tau Sigma Delta, 
honorary fraternity of Architecture 
and Allied) Arts. The following aro 
the candidate: E. W. Klee, O. M,
Olsen, C. J. Pellegrinni, from the 
Architectural Department and Miss 
Martha Levy from the Painting and 
Illustrating Department. Mias Levy 
is to be congratulated upon being the 
first) woman in any chapter of Tau 
Sigma Delta.
Dean Bossange reviewed the his
tory of the fraternity, saying that It 
was organized in 1909, and now has 
chapters at the Universities of Mich
igan, Minnesota, Syracuse, Illinois, 
Pennsylvania, Liverpool In England, 
California and Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. He further said, It is 
the object of the Tau iSdgma Delta 
Fraternity to unite in a firm band 
of friendship such students of Arch
itecture and the Allied Arts, whose 
marked scholastic ability, moral char
acter and pleasing personality, have 
made them worthy of distinction, and 
to foster and promote high standards 
in tho schools and colleges of Arch
itecture and the Allied Arts."
The chapter at Tech was estab
lished in 1JH.7 and now has a mem
bership of 27, Including Honorary, 
Alumnae and Active Members. The 
Honorary members are: Director 18.
It, Bossange, Professors II, Sfcornfeld, 
W. F. Hitchens, If. H- Dornberger, 
Henry Hornboslel Douglas D, ElllngTlie final campaign for subscrip
tions to tho 1922 Thistle will start 
Monday, January 10, and finish tho 
day of the second semester's registra
tion. This is to enable thoso'students 
who have not already subscribed, to 
get their money in at the last mo
ment. Salesmen will bo^nooded and 
are to wprlc under tho samo rnlos as 
last year, for each lot of twenty-five 
books sold, the salesman receives a 
Thlatle free *6P chargo. Thoso mem
bers of the sales commlttoo for the 
first Thistlo campaign who sold tho 
required amount of books will como 
under this rule.
Salosmon will canvas the various 
collogcs during the drive, and soli In 
the corridors of tho Central building 
overy neon. Tho Thistle costs $-I.fi0 
this year, which may bo oithor paid 
In full or $2.00 down. In tho face of 
conditions this season only tho num
ber of books subscribed will be print
ed. No extra copies will be ordered. 
If any studont is counting on obtain
ing a book at thoond of tho year ho 
will bo disappointed. Lusl; year ovor 
two hundred namos wore on tho wait
ing lists and out of that number only 
twenty or thirty wore able to buy >rotunied subsciiptllrms.
Tho yearbook Is tho blggost and 
host history of llfo at Carnegie Toch. 
It contains a resume of tho ontiro 
year; all ovonts listed, a book full 
of pictures nnd happenings that bring 
back memories of things which1 stood 
out dining tho college llfo, Tho up
perclassmen nood no Introduction lo 
the Thistle, but tho Froshman prob
ably will, and It Is for tho purpose of 
acquainting them with a college year
book that wo aro holding this lant 
campaign. Clot your subscription In 
and insure yoursoif of a copy of the 
book. ,
ELECTRICAL SMOKER
Deport mental smokers In I ho Col
lege of Science aiufEngineering will 
bo topped off February 38 by a 
smoker held by tho students of the 
Electrical Engineering Department.
Tho Eloctrical Lab., the scene of 
the smoker, will lond an electrical at
mosphere and tlli/e students and fac
ulty will gather together in one of 
-the.largest stag affairs of the school 
year. Prof. Elys skill In prestidigita
tion will probably attract an unusu
ally largo number of the electricals 
and ontortainmont by local talent will 
lend a more noticeable Tech spirit 
to tile smoker. The Electrical De
partment boasts of some first class 
wrestlers and those attending are 
sure of seeing them in action.
The tags are out to remind the 
electricals agaih of February 13, the 
day of the electrical smoker.
TARTAN SQUAD 
SCORES VICTORY
Home Season Opens With 
40-36 Win Over Waynesbiirg Five. Dosey and Clark 
Star. Potter Plays Well
PLAY BEFORE CROWD
ton, W. K, Rttmsford. Tho Alumnae 
members are: I. S. Stark, L. C.
Smith, O. R. Olmsted, Philip Fried
man., C. TO. Silling, H. F. Bremmer, 
R C. Bowen, Paul F. Simplon, If. 
T. Asplnwall, Robert Schmertz, Bar
ry Dierkes, Lowell B. Christman. 
The Active members are: G. M.
Pauly, L S. Lashnut, L. B. Kritcher. 
M. G. Winslow, C. W. Hunt, E. M. 
Stults, II., C. B Marks. Mr. IC. B. 
Snow .is an Affiliate member and 
Prof C. J Taylor is candidate for 
Honorary membership.
A. 1. E. E. Planning to 
Hold Annual Banquet
Remember those bluepoints, tha 
juicy tenderloin steak with mush
rooms and that delicious Neapolitan 
ice cream that you had last March, 
Electricals? It surely does bring 
back fond memories and you Teel that 
it would bo entirely out of the ques
tion to miss an A. I. E. E. banquet.
And last years feed with all the 
good eats and fun will not be forgot
ten in the preparation and planning 
of the Electrical banquet under the 
auspices of tlio Carnegie Tech branch 
of the A. I. E. E. Tho membership In 
tills organization has climbed to such 
heights during the present school 
year that n record crowd is sure to 
bo on hand for fills annual affair.
A commlttoo has boon appointed 
and arrangements aro being made by
H. W Bryan, chairman, who has 
working with him representatives of 
the three upperclassos, Including J.
Gates and A, W. Grlob of tho 
Sonlors; O. J, Ilargor and J, B. Cole
man, Jr., from the Junior class, and 
W. J. Lyman and P. C. Cromwell of 
the Sophomores.
The exact date for the banquet has 
not been set, but It will take the 
place of the regular February meet
ing of tho A. I. E. E. and will be held 
early in February.
Tickets will soon be in the hands 
of the committee and thoso desirous 
of attending are urged to make reser
vations as soon as the tickets for 
the affair appear on the campus.
Tho Tech basket ball team defeat
ed tho Waynosbnrg College live last 
Saturday night at Motor Square Gar
den by tho score of 40 to 3G. Tho 
Waynosburg moil got off to an early 
lead and led at the end of tho first 
quarter by tho score of 12 to 9. The 
Toch tossers had a hard timo in get
ting started and their lack of team 
work in this quarter was quite no
ticeable, many long shots being at
tempted from the middle of tho court 
aud tho majority of them being' 
missed. In somo of thoso cases the 
Tech team was forced to resort to 
long shots because the Waynosburg 
team played a. defensive game when
ever they were loading by more than 
three points.
Newman substituted for Bell in tho, 
second quarter and performed well 
during tho rest/ of tho game. Many 
fouls wore committed by tho Tech 
team but fortunately they woro not 
turned .into points due to the inabil
ity of Captain Freeman to make tho 
frco throws. Tho first half ondod 
with tho score tied, each team hav
ing 17 points.
In tilio second half tho Tech squad 
showed miich bettor form and tliolr 
team work was much better. Saw
yer's 'passes wove Cast and accurate 
(Continued on Pago Four)
Major Recognition 
For Minor Teams
Tho first annual banquet of tho 
Alhlotlo Council was hold In tho 
Pittsburgh Field Club, at 0:30 p. m., 
Thursday, December ID, .1021. Pro
fessors Looilwi and Loo, Dean 'Tarbell, 
Irwin, iTondonion, Stultfl, Dr. Marks, 
Casey. ICngstrOm,,'. VrouJdcnt Mvorond.1 
Secretary Haaron and F. .1, Lunahan 
woro prosent.
A regular bu'sInoHfi meeting of tho 
council was hold Immediately before 
the banquet at which several Roma 
of interest woro taken lip.
Tho following regulations1 woro 
adopted:
I'hal. major sport recognition bo 
given minor sport, teams who horoal'tor may win IntorHoctlonal cham
pionships f<> Do s\> dofinod by tlio 
athletic Council.
The basket' ball schedule as pre
pared by tho graduate manager for 
tho seiuion liiiU*22 was accepted.
The following men, having met 
tho requirements of the. football let
ter rule were granted football lot* 
iterss G. L. Comfort, Harold 0, Clodi
on, G. L. 'liable, II. C. Henderson, A.
G. Irwin (captain), 0, B. Newman, 
Don Potter, Max A. Rosen bloom, H.
O. Sprinkle, J, s. Anderson, C. (J. 
Brumbaugh, II, E. Mills, J. A. Rob
ertson, II. L Sawyer, A. 10, Wlorman, 
C. A. Bleach, manager. The follow
ing tliroo men woro granted apodal 
letters upon recommendation of 
Coach Steffen as provided In tho let
ter rule: J. F. Taylor, A. Zolt and
J. 10. Lewis.'
It was voted that V. I-I. Stroniqulat 
Ibe elected manager of varsity foot
ball 1922 and that L. J. Farrali be 
elected manager of tho Freshman 
team 1922.
W. II. Ryan and G. C. Salzman 
wero elected as first assistant man
agers of football 1922 with G. R. 
Gassard and R. W. Stevenson as al
ternates.'. Second assistant managers: 
Slye Reid, Rossback, Barnhardt, 
I-Iorger, Damon, Asplnwall and 
Jar cm a.
The following men were granted 
major varsity letters In cross-country:
C. DeV. Miller (captain), B. N. Green
law, J. J. Kelley, H. E. Dykoman, E. 
W. Tubbs', John Nation (manager). I 
The cross-country team defeated de
cisively Lafayette, Lehigh, Penn Stato, 
West Virginia and Allegheny with
out losing onco all season.
The following managers of cross
county were recommended for elec
tion: W. K. Lucas, H. H. Wilson,
(Continued on Page Three.)
THISTLE PICTURES DUE
Group pictures of all organizations 
will be taken within tlio next two 
weeks for the 1922 Thistlo. Ray Kel
ler Is in chargo of this work ami 
should be aeon by organizations wish
ing group pictures In the Annual. 
Howard Hamel is In charge of fra
ternity pictures. Individual pictures 
wllil be taken next week at Brockens 
'Studio, Miss Purdy has charge of 
the M- M. C. C. organization pictures.
Snapshots of athletic events aro 
needed for the feature section. Pic
ture of the Ponn State trip and tho 
game are especially needed and should 
be handed in to F. C. Bowors within 
the next week.
There aro a number of openings on 
the business staff of the Thistle, 
mainly in the adVertising section. 
Dave Porterfield and Jack Evans 
have charge of this work.
Cartoons and other drawings are 
wanted for the feature section. Draw
ings shquld be submitted to H. Rathman. I
\j

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1922
(Tartan
Published overy week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
TflCffl&logy under tho supervision of tho Student Activities Board.COMMENTS
Entered in tho PoHtoillco of Pittsburgh VO secon'l-clu matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLDS............................................................ Edltor-ln-Chlo!
Telephone, Hazel $308
WILLIAM R. MILLS ................................................................... BuJnoH Manager
TolophoneSchonloy 9211.
VIC. II. STROMQU 1ST ................................................................ Managing Editor
TolophonesSchonloy 9180 or Hllund 8fi8
HELEN V. LEWIS.......................................................................... Associato Editor
TolophonoSchonloy 9079
It, J. WHITEHEAD vvvp.............................................................. Aoclafco Editor
TolephonoSchonloy 9070
HBWAIID A. JJIIAND............................................................................ Nown EditorTelephoneSchonloy 9070
II. F. SIMPSON................................................................................. AtUlotlo Bliltor
TelephoneSchonloy 9070
n TT miY'PON ......................................................................... Pliotograptar
tij : moKMAw ................................................................'M'or
II. . SONNJBMX............................................................. Advartlng MaagorTolephonoSchonloy 9211 
E L RIELLY .................................................................... Circulation Manager
LP ROC RASTIN ITUS
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Oladva Boiuo, M. Scliumr, H. K Dlolor, A. Lubln, Vlncont Roy, 
I*. G. MacKoiii, lt. H. Lotho.wllz, II. H. WllHOn, K. L. McKee, W. . .
J, iiortSmn I'1. T. Plilp, J'!. J. Miuml, It. P. May, .1. A. Dougherty, M. 8. 
DmvmiK, W. O. Sullivan, II. W. Broifill, P. O. Smltli, II. J. McCormick, L. 
Dyorl, IM. lOiiini.i. _________________________________________________________.
J. M. Cooper
JJUSINI0S8 ASSISTANTS 
III, SoworaW. B. Cunningham
Tlio JCdllor-ln-Chlot In roMJonslble for tlio policy ot tlilB papor; tho 
Managing ISdltor for Ilio malie up.
Tho Tartan welcomoa all communlcationB of student lnteroat. If eliined, 
algnaturo will bu wltlilujld II' desired. All LLV.X ltoma must bo In tho Btudont 
ILNO1 olllco boforo 4:110 Friday._________________________________
Tartan OlllceRoom n-A, Industries Building. Olllco hoursTuesday, 
11:311 to 1:0(1, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00. ______
THE POINT SYSTEM
Last your the student body realized tlmt some Bystem should be 
devised governing the amount oi! time a mail might spend in activi
ties and lot- three years the Tnrtan Inis advocated the Point System, 
because it was and is necessary to the tree growth oi; activities.
The Student Council took the question up and a system was for
mulated and it was to become effective this year, lint now as four 
months havo passed and nothing has been heard of the Point System 
we wonder what has happened. Has it died or is it just undergoing 
the necessary red tape that is required by the Student Council'/ We 
do not believe that tlio idea is dead, because it is too essential to the 
free growth of activities and it has the approval of the student body.
If it is a matter of red tape, then something is wrong with the 
workings of tho Student Council. The surest way to kill an idea 
is to lay it on tlio shell:. At present, the Point System is dying a 
slow death at the hands of the Student Council. Something should 
bo done and wo hope that the Student Council will, at least before 
next year, havo some kind of a Point System in effect.
STUDENTS CALENDAR
WBDNESDAY, JANUARY U
General Student Assembly..........................Carnegie Music Hall, 11:30
Student Drive for Benefit of Foreign Students.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 13
Basket BallTeeh vs. W. & >1............................................................There
Dance- -Musical Club Novelty Dance......................................Union, 9:00
SATURDAY, JANUARY 14
Basket BallTech vs. Lafayette..............Motor Square Garden, 7:30
DanceAid of Students in Europe"....................................Union, 9:00
SUNDAY, JANUARY 15
Music Recital.................................................................Arts Theater, 8:15
No tickets.
MONDAY, JANUARY 16
Chapel...........................................................................Arts Theater, 12 :'i5
FRIDAY, JANUARY 21
Basket Ball -Toch vs. (Irovo City......................................................There
SATURDAY, JANUARY 22
Basket BallTech vs. Allegheny........................................................There
SUNDAY, JANUARY 22
MuBieRocital.................................................................Arts Theater, 8:15
No tickets.
SUNDAY, JANUARY 29
Music Recital ...........;......................................................Arts Thoator, 8:15
No tickets.
Washington
Conference
(By .Will I an Hurd.)
Mr. (Hard 1 ono of tho moot bril
liant. American .lourmilhit. Ills ar
ticle havo boon appearing In many 
ot our well known mni,a/hum tor a 
number of yoiiriv. Authors The Wornon of Tomorrow, Joint author (with 
Colonel Raymond Robin) Raymond 
Robin Story of Bolshevist Russia, 
oto. Ho in now writing artlclon on 
tho Washington. Conference, for Alu, 
the Now Republic and several other 
periodicals.
This woolc in the Washington Con
ference has beon a disastrous one 
for the English-speaking nations. The 
question of the submarine has upset 
tho British in Europe and there will 
soon be a realization of the fact that 
tlie question of the submarine has 
also upset the Americans in the Far 
East.
This conference was called to dis
cuss armanaments of all sorts. The 
question of land armaments was with
drawn from all important considera
tion by the speech of Premier Briand 
of France. The only part of it left 
was the matter of chemical warfare. 
It is very doubtful if the conference 
will he able to lay effective restric
tions on chemical warfare or on prep
aration of material for chemical war
fare.
Tho question of air armaments lias 
nevor reached tho conference. The 
air experts hero gathered aro unem
ployed.
The question of naval armaments 
has remained therefore tho one ques
tion do! lining the conference in the 
matter of tho limiting of weapons of 
warfare. Naval warfaro includes 
many weapons. Tho weapon of tho 
capital ship lmn boon put under tlio 
limitation of IjOO.OOO tons for Great 
Britain, ROO.OOO tons for tho United 
States, 100,000 tons for Japan, and 
175,000 tons oaclt for Franco and 
Italy. This limitation, will have pe
culiar advantages for Jalpan and for 
Franco and pocullar disadvantages 
for Britain and for America unless 
there Is at tho same time a. limiting 
of submarines. But thte events of this 
week have brought forward the 
French demands rogarding submarines 
and have seemed to make a limit
ing of submarines impossible.
At this moment the conference 
cannot limit submarines. But if it 
cannot limit submarines it will not he 
able to limit anti-submarine craft. 
Among anti-submarine craft we must 
number the seaplane and the destroy
er. Mr. Balfour has made clear 
that if the French build large num
bers of suhmarinoft the British will 
1)0 obliged to organize antl-submurlnc 
craft. In largo numbers. But If the 
British aro troo txx organize them, 
no aro the Japnnoiio. Thoso craft, 
however, If they Include destroyor 
snd seaplanes, aro useful also 
against, capital ships. The Japanese 
therefore will be free to equip thornsoLvos with a groat resistance against 
capital ships. Tho Americans mean
while have limited themselves to the 
ratio of llvo capltivl ships to Japan's 
throe. It Is aoodptod doctrine among 
naval men that! a war between the 
United Staton and Japan would have 
to bo fought; In tho Far East whore 
tho ambitions of Japan aro located. 
It would be an nggrosslvo war by 
us and a defensive war by Japan, 
na.vully considered, it follows that 
tho situation croatod by present de
velopments in tho conference is man
ifestly enormously advantageous to 
Japan. We lia.vo limited the capital 
ships which are the only ships that 
can take an aggressive command of 
the sea and we have not been able 
to limit tlio little ships (whether un
der the sea or on the surface of the 
sea or in the air)' which are able to 
counteract the capital ships.
The more this conference proceeds, 
the more it becomes plain that we 
are going to find the limiting of arm
aments an extremely difficult technic
al [problem if it is approached simply 
as a technical problem. The more 
this conference proceeds, the more it 
becomes plain that justice and a 
sense of accomplished right between 
nations! will be highly necessarjr to 
the state of mind which will not 
domandi prodigious armaments. This 
justice and tills sense of accomplish
ed right havo not yet been reached, 
nor can they be reached till Euro
pean questions as well as Far East
ern quostlons havo been moro fully 
ndjustod. The next International con
ference will ha,vo to consider thoso 
questions  quostlons embracing tho 
whole worldand Consider them in 
a. larger assembly of nations. That. 
Is tho special lesson of this discour
aging work.
Y. M. C. A.
The weekly swim at Schenley High 
from 7 to 8 p. m., Is still being held. 
All Toc.li men afro invited to bo pres
ent
Don't forgot the chapel to bo hold 
In tho Arts Thoator Monday, 12:fi0 to 
1:20. Tho spoakor will bo announced 
later.
Professor Simpson's discussion 
group meets Wednesday in Room 12-1 
Industries. A history of tho Ancient 
Manuscripts is now being studied. 
This course is open to all Tech men.
Al Mays discussion group for 
Freshmen meets every Friday In
ProcniKtinlLus is described as the 
universal collegiate allmout, The 
disease 1 fully as bad as the name 
Hounds, It need very little foot
hold before It claims a victim; it is 
very contagious and spreiui rapidly. 
It resembles tho Hu, In that it' is bud 
enough at tho time, but the after ef
fects aro oven worse.
Moro delInf|uoncic;j proceed from 
proems LI hitu than from any other 
source. Tlu> habit of putting work 
oil' from day to day Is very danger
ous, because It has a tendency to re
sult In continued negligence. Duties 
must bo discharged when the time Is 
rKpo; not when II, suit tho inclina
tion. Too many people defer action 
from one day to another thinking 
that they will be more in tho mood 
later, but the mood never comes and 
the task remains undone. Such hab
its are symptoms of proScrastinitus. 
He who frequents the theaters or 
who loltors about, plainly for enjoy
ment only, 6C deliberately courting 
the worst form of tlio disease.
Ono newspaper, writing on the sub
ject of proscrastlnltus, declares that 
there Is only opo cure, and that rests 
with tho patient. The prescription 
reads: Mix ambition and determina
tion with good Intentions and apply 
conscientiously to each duty as it 
arises.Clipped.
ROAMINS
Interest and Efficiency
Editor, Tho Carnegie Tartan:
Dear Sir: 
The article in last week's Tartan
i Interest and Efficiency" taken 
fiom tho "McGill Dally was very 
good. We need more like that. The 
only fault is that it does not go 
far enough.
Everyone is endowed with certain 
dellnito natural talents, and with a 
certain mental capadly. Tho case 
with tho majority of persons today 
is not that they aro limited by.their 
mental capacities, but that they de
velop their montal ability to only a 
very small fraction of its possibili
ties.
The natural talents are tho foun
tain of inspiration. These natural 
talents create love of a definite
branch of learning. Tho love of
tills particular field creates a desire 
for self-expression in that field. That 
Is, ono obtains pleasure from think
ing of itho favorite subject. That is 
self-expression to ones self. One 
obtains pleasure from talking about
tho favorite subject. That Is selfexpression to a limited group. And 
above all, ono obtains (pleasure from 
doing things1 which will make tills 
particular field of knowledge a part 
of his act!vo dally llfo. Tills, is true 
self-exprosslon.
Lot us digress for a momont. There 
nn bo no doubt that ho who discov
ers Ills own natural talents and de
velops them and follows his Intuitive 
guidance, prompted by love of tho 
subject, to tho shaping of those tal
on ts Into a tliome for Ills wliolo life 
Is building for a usoful caroor with 
unlimited possibilities.
A certain amount of unbiased oxternal guidance Is necessary, but 
tills Is as scarco as It is precious. 
Besides, too, muih of any kind of 
outsldo guldaneo will hamper tho 
development, of the croatlvo poworii, 
and the resulting [product of medioc
rity. Tho groat majority of persons 
tod'ay are tho rosult of too much 
well-meant, but unblusod, guidance. 
Ihls is tho reason for such a largo 
number of persons in the uvorago 
hiss and so few gonulsos.
To return to our theme. Tho spon
taneous d'oslro for self-expression be
gets genuine Interest In the chosen 
field and In tho necessary course of 
study. Tills Interest creates an In
satiable desire for knowledge of the 
louiwo which will lead up to tho be
loved ultimate vocation. Tho voca
tion will become an inspired calling. 
This calling will become a career.
But wo have been speaking of the 
ideal condition. Our present educa
tional system has mapped out cer
tain dellnite, inllexiblo courses, In 
general, necessary as stepping-stones 
to certain vocations. This is an ex
ample of external guidance, designed 
to meet the needs of the average in
tellect, and therefore, produces only 
average results.
Under such a system, there will 
surely be some subject ,in which the 
student will not have a genuine in
terest. But if he can be made to 
see that these are a necessary part 
of the great plan, he can so disci-, 
pline his mind that it will become a 
tool in the grip of his will, and he 
can therefore create a forced inter
est, or even develop a real vital in
terest, which wll so shape these sub
jects that, they will fit into the 
scheme of his life.
- In conclusion, it is my humble 
opinion that the great need today is 
for: 
First.A searching,invontory of the 
students talents and mental capac
ity.
SecondA course in the essentials 
of a study of tho mind, along with 
the dovolopmont of tlio natural tal
ents.
And finally, tho oourso of study 
which will proparo the studont so 
that he can on tor1 11 To on tho right 
track and; can attain tlio hlghost use
ful development.
-Very truly yours,
A. J. irYNl). '
491f> Forbes street
Some how or other, somethings at 
Tech remind me*a great deal of our 
National Congros. Tho quickest way 
to kill an idea. Is to let it die. In a 
committee. And Roamer i thinking 
of Senior distinction and privileges. 
For years and years an attempt has 
boon made. To get a distinctive 
drosH. And finally a simple ribbon 
wa proposed and approved of. By 
tho majority of the class. A step had 
boon taken. But lo!\, A few powerful 
ones disapproved. And the idea was 
put to loop. In a committee.
Now #a committee. Is considering 
tho granting of privileges. And let's 
hope that something worthy is accom
plished. The beanerle tables. Surely 
Motor Square Garden Is large enough. 
To permit the old Senior section. 
There a host of other favors. Lets 
see If this group can't down tho im
pression. That a committee Is mere
ly for killing. An idea.
The question, which puzzles me 
most. Is a basket ball team from 
Tech. So small a thing. That it does 
not deserve the same support. We 
give to our grid heroes. \ To be sure 
the crowd was large on Saturday. But 
It should have been larger. And what 
of the cheering. Are we going through 
another season. When we have to 
coax and coax. The man or men who 
are supposed. To lead us In an or
ganized effort. Of urging the team 
to victory? No wonder the score was 
so close. When their first reception. 
As they came on the floor. Rivaled 
that given to world war hero return
ing in a coflin. Wake up Tech.
ARTS THEATER
As this term now draws to a close, 
there rise to meet us many woes. I 
mean examination. And since we 
know that we must meet; our Final 
Tests we rise to greet, with woeful 
expectations. A cry of mourning doth 
arise from verdant Plebes and Seniors 
wise; and everyone protests. They 
only hope their luck will last until 
each one has Anally passed the hard
est of his tOBtS.
This is the time of all tlie year, the 
Freshman holds in greatest fear, for 
if his marks are low, they say Of 
Intellect youre shy, and so the poor, 
unlucky guy, must pack his trunk'and 
go.
Dont let the tests put you to rout, 
just take your notes and' text books 
out. It's merely up to youL For if 
you study hard at night, and if your 
luck holds out allright, why, maybe 
you'll get through.
WHAT WILL YOU HAVE?
All fall wo havo been hearing noth
ing but football. That was greati! 
Every body backed the team; every
body came to every gamerain or 
shine. And root! Ah, that was 
great. Last year we thot we had 
some team. But paste your lamps 
on this years team! And why was 
it a winning combination? Just be
cause tho student body was infected 
with the real TECH SPIRIT and 
backed it mp. The team played like 
mad bocanso each man on tlie team 
know that \overy manand -woman 
at Tech was hacking himup to tlie 
limit. That was, half tho battle and 
t.ho team won. You wanted a win
ning tonm, you bnckod it;, and you 
GOT it.
Slnco football season Is ovor it. 
seem that wo havo nothing to talk 
about. Last your aftor tho football 
season tho bottom dropped right out 
of tho markot for Tech Spirit, arid 
nevor rovlvodi again until Cnmpus 
Woelc. Will it do that this year? 
There is nothing that can equal 
omo Hjiorl. to koop alive a healthy 
school spirit
Then It is up to basket bull to 
koop Toch Spirit from hibernating. 
We had a. fair team last year nut/ 
the students didj not back It. If stu
dents do not cure whether the team 
loses a game or not why should the 
team? The team plays for the stwdents. Will that happen this year?
Wake uip1 Tech!
If you want a good team this year 
you MUST back it up. Back it up 
like you did tlie football team, talk 
about it, see the games, root and 
watch them play. That is the only 
way to put Tech on the basket ball 
map. What will you have', a good 
team or only a mediocre one? \We 
have the material, we have the 
coach. The result is up to you. 
Lets go, Tech!
SHAWS THE DEVILS DISCIPLE
The criticis's first feeling towards 
The Devil's Disciple is one of ir
ritation, through no fault of the play 
but of the playhouse. Four attempts 
he made to witness this piece In the 
interest of his calling, and only one 
resulted in a partial success. The 
first two were frustrated by the un
known principles which control the 
distribution of tickets:; the third came 
to naught in ono of those near-riots 
which occur with I increasing fre
quency at the doors of the Arts The
ater; the occasion of the partial suc
cess was that fantastic Friday mati
nee when a performance, originally 
announced for four, and then sliyly 
shifted to three-thirty, began coquettishly at three forty-five, just in time 
to exclude the critic and fifty of the 
adjacent audience. So steep and dif
ficult is the path to culture. Bound 
to the wheel of duty, howver, he re
mained to. see the rest of the play, 
but what the first act was like, he 
will never know.
Through the mists of irritation and 
of memoiy, he regards this early ex
ample of Shaw's play-writing as an 
amusing attempt of that wiseacre to 
serve up ap ancient goose with a 
new sauce. Wilfully, Shaw has 
taken a worn melodramatic situation, 
sacrifice a la Sidney1 Carton, and 
made it a fresh and lively comment 
on man and his motives. Dickens, 
the sentimentalist, distilled therefrom 
the tears of bathos; Shaw, the intellectualist, wrought out of it the wry 
smile of ironic comedy. His method 
here is to substitute for the saw-dust 
dolls of the banal theater two char
acters with humanly mixed motives 
and natures, and a Shavian mouth
piece, the pseudO-Burgoyne. The con
sequences are not only amusing but 
moving for If one listens closely, he 
will hear wise and tender judgment 
of the pathetic virtues and the .jaun
ty bravadoi of humanity. Those Vho 
look for lessons may learn that even 
the cad has his heroic moments and 
even the heroic his caddish.
So far as the critic ha3 been per
mitted to judge, the production is 
satisfying if not brilliant. Mr. Reed., 
as the scapegrace turned hero, seems 
the most finished and expert of the 
actors. His is the most thoroughly 
developed role, and he manages to 
bring its diverse elements into a uni
fied roundness. Miss Lissfelt as the 
wavering wife is at first moving, but 
ultimately monotonous. Her capacity 
of tears seems inexhaustible, and she 
has never noticed that distress may 
be apparent without being hysterical. 
Mr. Shaugliency's work as Anderson, 
the clergyman-soldier, Is interesting 
if not highly polished. He is not 
quite successful In blending the op
posed sides of the mans nature, in 
merging the muscle With the Christi
anity, or perhaps it is that he stress
es the bluffness at the expense of the 
'clerical. It is likewise gratifying to 
see Mr. Kappes entrusted with the 
part of Burgoyne. The Shavian im
pudence he catches, though his per
formance ' is somewhat lacking inforce and poise. Mr. Willard is un
able to pass,1 off bis frail roman
ticism as the heavy stupidity 9f 
Major Swindon. Mr. Paquins Ser
geant was full-bodied enough, though 
there remulns a doubt, perhaps un
justified, as to whether he was speak
ing Cockney or Irish. Mr. Mullens 
Idiot boy was self-consciously effect
ive. The aspect of the piece was en
gaging despite the frantic speed with 
which It was prepared. Probably a 
Presbyterian village would, however, 
havo furnished a larger crowd to wit
ness nil atheists hanging.
Valuable Food Neglected.
The neglected ' tropical American 
food plant, the pejlbaye or chontaduro. Is the rival of the famous Ori
ental date palm, and, like It, Is capa
ble of supporting human life almost 
unaided, Wilson. Popenoe, agricultural 
explorer 'of the Department of Agri
culture, declares. While Arab tribes 
utilize the date palm as their principal 
food, the aborigines of southern Costa 
Rica and other countries of northern 
South America subsist almost exclu
sively during part of each year on 
pejlbayjg.
Pollu" Characteristic.
The word pollu. which was ap
plied as a nickname to the French 
soldier during the World war, means 
hairy or shaggy, and Is generally used 
In that country to denote a man of 
| strength and character, the Idea be
ing that men with hairy faces and 
arms and chests are strong.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
This is for the ladies as well as 
the gentlemen. When your "suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. We will call for it 
and deliver it Our work is the 
best, our service quick, our prices 
reasonable. Miss OLe'ary, 3933. Forbes 
street.
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
I......JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY ?
j. CRAIG AND FORBES STREET X
Y Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open- AH Year.
X BELL PHONE ' X
V Classes each evening. Private lessons daily. **
X A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL 
at DUQUESNE GARDEN
Are The Very Best. ^ *
Public Sessions 2:30 and 8:30 Daily.
For Party Reservations Call Paul Qualtrougli, Manager
\ Schenley 3106.
Special Student Sessions
' Saturday morning, Afternoons after 3:30Lower rate.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
ANDERSONS
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
FORBES, Near Murray 
Pittsburgh, Penna.
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged
CLEAN,
WHOLESOME
FOOD
Served at best prices
CIGARS CANDY
Shadyside 
Barber Shop
JOS. E. KRUMM, Prop.
6522 WALNUT STREET
H A R R Y  S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARY ;
i- ~=f U
/V&i $
Room 124, Industries. This is a very 
interesting and profitable hour for 
Froshmon,
The Y Club Room is opon for 
study and comhiiLtoe mootings at all 
times.
By No Means.
"Tlie road to liell Is paved with good 
Intentions, says the proverb, but aa 
a modern politician has remarked, tho 
beauty of the pavement does not Im
prove the destination.The Bodleian.
NOTICES
The Citnms Club will hold the reg
ular meeting tomorrow night, Jan
uary 12, 7:30 p. m., at the Square 
and Compass House, 21S North Negley avenue. All members are re
quested to attend.
Swim Wednesday evening, January 
II, at the Schenley High Schoo 
Every student interested is .nsked to 
bo out at 7:30. Under auspices of 
the Y. M. C. A.
Professor Simpsons class in Anclont Manuscripts will meot in the 
Y. Club Room, 12-1-A, Industries, 
Wednesday, at 12:30, and all aro 
asked to moot with tho group.
Tho Junior class of Industries will 
havo a short business meeting in 
Room 10-1, Industries, Thursday, at 
12:20.
A Scalp and Blade will hold unim
portant meeting Wednesday night*at 
7:45 In the Y. M. C. A. Club room in 
Industries building.
All organizations on the campus are 
requested to notify L. Hertzriian, Box 
173, care The 'Partun. C. I. T. Post 
Office, of all mootings and gatherings 
on and off the cjimpus,
Its tlie kind of loyalty 
thats ready to figlit at 
the drop of the hat. Only 
high and worthy things 
evoke such a feeling. Men 
have something of the 
same loj'alty for their 
favorite cigarette, Melachrino, the one cigarette 
sold the world over.
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over 

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1922THE TARTANTHREE
t 
LiPLAID ATHLETICS
TECH PLAYS TWO 
GAMES THIS WEEK
Meets Wash-Jeff Abroad and 
Lafayette Here
Two basket ball games will bo 
played this week, each one of which 
will test the varsity to the limit, and 
a good brand of basket ball will have 
to be presented in order to get away 
with victory.'
One game will be played with 
Wash-Jeff on Friday, January 13th, 
at Little Washington, while the other 
game will be played in Pittsburgh at. 
the Motor Square Garden with Lafay
ette as opponent. Last year Tech lost 
two games to Wash-Jeff by the scores 
of 31-22 and 32-31. Lafayette has 
never been met by the Tech basket 
ball team, and is therefore of un
known quality. But, if they place a 
team on the floor anything like their 
football team a good game can be 
looked forward to. Wash-Jeff is well 
known as always having a team which 
compares favorably with the best in 
this district.,
The Tech varsity has shown much 
improvement over their opening game 
with Waynesburg, and is alll set to 
play the games of their life against 
both opponents of this week. Don 
Potter and Alabam Newman are 
valuable additions to tlie team. Saw
yer is playing good, while Dosey, Gib
son and Bell are playingentirely up> 
to titoeir former appearances. No defi
nite statement can bd given as to the 
lineup, but the forwards will most 
likely be taken care of by Gibson and 
Dosey, with Bell receiving the center 
assignment. Potter and Sawyer will 
more than likely be seen as 'guards.
The game will be played at the 
Motor Square Garden, and a good size 
crowd should be present to cheer the 
team on to victory. The Gardens can 
take care of as large a crowd as Tech 
will send out, so come out and let us 
get stfme of that good old Tech cheer
ing as was seen during the football 
season. Where are the Cheer Lead
ers? Lets have some of them out 
there! Lets have a cheering sec
tion
Tech Reserves Beaten 
By Avalon Passers
Last Friday night at Avalon High 
the Passers basket ball team ran up 
against a snag in tne form of the 
Avalon Varsity, and as a result went 
down to defeat 32-16. The reason, 
true and simple, is Too Much Avalon. 
Perhaps another reason that can be 
given is a total flack of co-ordination 
in the play of the Reserves. The Re
serves choose to play a defensive 
game, and if the truth be known, 
played it poorly. Their, passing was 
erratic, practically always parsing 
into Avalon mens hands, which prov
ed to be a pretty poor policy, for once 
in their hands the Avalonites proceed
ed to mystify Anderson, Godden and 
company with their accurate passing, 
closely followed up by wonderful 
shooting. Tho score was only, kept 
down by haird-luck shots by Avalon.
For tech there were no starsthey 
alll shined with equal dullness. For 
Avalon they were all stars, with 
Woodbuin leading with five field 
goals, and six out of nine attempts by 
the l^oul route. A Parker followed 
closely with ten successive goals out 
of seventeen tries and 3 field goals.
In the fourth quarter, Coach Wad
dell tried to help matters by rushing 
in a large string of substitutes, but 
this only made matters worse. These 
substitutions were made so rapidly 
that the score-keeper was unable to 
keep track of them.
In justice to the men that played 
for the Reserves, lack of practice 
played a larfee part in the outcome, 
but to (he honorable scribes- eyes, 
over-confidence hurt by far ;the most 
More practice will more than likely 
make a much better showing pos
sible in their next appearance. '
DO YOU KNOW
That the History of Elevators Dates 
Back As Far As 236 B. C.?
In that year Archimedes built a de
vice, operated by man power and-consisted of a windlass and tackle, ar
ranged to lift heavy weights such as 
massive stones.
The earliest passenger elevator 
was installed in Convent St. Catherine 
on Mt. Sinai in the middle of the 
sixth century. It consisted of a cap
stan or windlass operated by the 
Monks, raising and lowering passen
gers in a rope basket.
Platform elevators were first made 
about 1850, although the first instance 
of a practical passenger elevator and 
known as a1 vertical screw railway 
was installed in the old Fifth Avenue" 
Hotel, at Fifth avenue and Twentythird street, New York City, which 
was erected in. 1S59.
The first successful electric drum 
elevator-' was installed by the Otis 
Brothers & Company in 1S89 in the 
A. T. Demarest building at Thirtythird street and Fifth avenue. In 
1905, the first important electric trac
tion 'elevators, were installed by the 
Otis Elevator Company in the Majes
tic building at Chicago which are still 
operating successfully.
As early as 1852. the name Otis 
became' identified with the elevator 
industry through inventions by Elisha
G. Otis. Th-; firm of N. P. Otis & 
Brothers wa4 established at Yonkers, 
New York,' in* 1861, subsequently 
changed to Otis Brothers & Company 
and incorporated, in 1898 to the Otis 
Elevator Company. The name of 
"Otiri has thus been associated for 
over half a century as the leader in 
the development of the elevator art.
An Outside Opinion 
Of Tech Football
In the December issue of Football 
World Teoli comes in for a goodly 
share of praise in an article entitled 
Anderson Elected Captain at Tech. 
To the outer world, it seems we
have attained the nickname of
Tech, instead of the half dozen 
given us* by the papers of Pitts
burgh and vicinity. Tech to the
Football World means only one Tech 
and that is Carnegie Tech.
In speaking of Techs team in an
other seQtion of the magazine, tlie 
following statement is made: One 
of the.greatest scoring machines in 
the country, possessing the best in
terference seen in recent times
hereabouts, with a brand of team 
play seldom equalled anywherea 
light aggregation, yet making up in 
brain what it lacked in brawnfor 
the Tech grid team of 1921 boasted' 
of no individual star, though it had 
a galaxy of them.
Certainly tliere were times when 
one player shone more brilliantly 
than another, but it was not a oneman team, built up around one star, 
for Coach Walter Steffen, any time 
dux*ing the season, might have lifterl 
any player from the lineu'p without 
materially reducing the offensive or 
defensive Strength of the organiza
tion. Nor was it a team that de
pended upon one man to score its 
points, for no less than 12 assisted 
in the thirty-four crossings of the 
enemy goal line.
THREE-DAY FRIENDSHIP
FUND DRIVE BEGINS
(Continued From Page One.)
The drive at Tech is in charge of 
the Teckon Cluib with Helen R. Reed 
actiiig as general chairman, Mrs. 
Scales, Josephine Stewart and Messrs. 
Hoover,. Irwin, Dowden and Allison 
comprise the committee. Dean Tar
bell has consented to act as treas
urer.
White tags indicate one has con
tributed and are quite the fashion 
this week. Wear your tag to that 
benefit dance Saturday night and 
your admission fee will only be a 
dollar a couiple, otherwise a dollar 
and a half will be charged.
We want your support.
MAJOR RECOGNITION
FOR MINOR TEAMS
(Continued From Page One.) 
alternates; assistant managers, C. Hol
lingsworth, D. R. Co6, and second 
assistant managers, C. Colvin and 
C. P. Proctor.
The (present officers, of the Ath
letic Council were re-elected to serve 
through the ensuing year, namely: 
President, Clarence Overend; seen 
tary, Frank H. I-Iaaren.
A vote oL thanks was given to the 
football squad of 1921, the/ student 
managers and football organizations 
generally, bor the excellent record an.l 
good work done during the football 
season of 1921.
Seven hundred and sixty-seven dif
ferent courses are offered at the 
University of Wisconsin this year 
Between nine hundred and a thous
and professors and assistants will 
be required to carry on the classes 
and lectures.
An intercollegiate . wireless serv
ice for the purpose of exchanging 
news is being considered by mem 
bers of the journalism faculty at tho 
University of, Kansas. It is propos
ed that there be a controlling sta
tion, which would direct all activi
ties. At a given hour each day each 
station would send news for several 
minutes at a period allotted them, 
and receive news the rest of the 
horn-. The only serious drawback is 
the cost to colleges not already hav 
ing the necessary .apparatus.
OUR ROOTERS
For some time there has been crit
icism in university circles regarding 
Nebraskas methods of placing stu
dents in the rooting sections at the 
football games. At present the girls 
are in one group on the fifty-yard 
line and the men are split up, half 
of them on one side of the women 
and half on the. other.
The result of this seating arrange
ment is lack of co-operation when 
the cheering commences. This is 
very apparent from the grandstand, 
for one section will finish much 
ahead of the other two, or one sec
tion will have no part in a yell 
while one or both of the other sec
tions are on their feet.
The logical solution for this would 
be to ,combine all the men and thus 
have unified cheering at least from 
the men.
In the past the head cheer leader 
has been located in front of tho 
fifty-yard line. No matter how ablQ 
his assistants are, they cannot keep 
ixx time with him, and as a result 
t>.e sections, no matter how atten
tive, cannot work together.
In Notre Dame they have one 
man to lead the cheers, and the 
football fans returning from there 
tell how successful he was.
Nebraska has the spirit to make 
their cheering a success and all 
they need is the proper organization. 
Is this plan worth a try?Daily 
Nebraskan.
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
BASKET BALL 
A Question To Ask.
In another column of this issue is printed an article by a Tech man, 
who has the right idea, and is entirely justified in saying what he has said. 
He speaks of the dropping off of the real Tech Spirit after tho football sea
son. This column x-equests every man in school to x-eud that commentit 
is- printed under .the column headed Bill Says. Before reading this ar
ticle further, please read that comment, and then -return to this.
And, along this line, it might be mentioned that our Graduate Manager 
has gone to the extra expense of playing the lxoxxxe games in the Motor Sqxiato 
Gax-den in order to accommodate every Tech stxxdent. So, fellows, show your 
appreciation by packing and jamnxing that Garden.
The question: Are you a TECH MAN, or a mere student?
A Mistake Made.
Last Saturday there was a dance held in the Union, run in opposition to 
the basket ball game. Whoever was responsible for such a state of affairs 
should be severely criticized. Such should not be. There is only one place 
for all Techites when Tech has a basket ball game at lxoxxxe or in Pittsburgh, 
which amounts to the saxxie thing, aixd that is at the game. Those who were 
at the dance and not at the game should be criticized almost as much as those 
who planned the dancethey could at least have let it be known that they 
objected to the idea, by attending the game. Those that attended the game, 
and then the dance afterward sux-ely showed the right spirit, and are entitled 
to be called: Real Tech Men.
Inter-Frat Basket Ball 
Games Start This Week
As a basket ball team, the team that went out to Avalon last 'Friday 
night would make good ping pong playersand Avalon makes a good basket 
ball team as a basket ball team.
TENNIS
Colonel Brooks Has a -Word To Say.
Tennis players should appreciate the addition to the Library Hut of a 
new Magazine: The Lawn Tennis Magazine.
This publication has beeix greatly improved of recent years and can 
be i-elied upon to give an accurate account of all tennis matches and tourna
ments of promineixce not only in the United States but tlxrouglxoxxt the world
It has excellent illustrations photographed at all prominent events. It 
pxxblislxes the schedules of all tournaments.
It also continually publishes excellent articles giving instruction and 
advice on playing the'game.
All tennis players shoxxld x-ead over every issue.
About the only thing that this column can add to the aTiove is to men
tion the fact that the subsci*iptioix is a part of the activities of the Tennis 
Club; it having recently sent in a three-year subscription.
A Boost for Tennis.
The season for tennis is approaching, and as a result, many items of 
interest to the texxnis players and devotees should bo presented. Perhaps the 
most interesting comes ixx the decision by the Athletic Council to present 
major recognition to any minor sport which for any season succeeds ixx win
ning an inter-sectional championship. Ixx other words, if the tennis' team 
wins the inter-sectional championship again, Major Cs will bo their reward.
This is only just to the players who succeed iix bringing a championship 
to the school. A greater reward should be given to a championship team 
than to >an ordnary team.
Colonel Brooks was laigely responsible for this action by the Athletic 
Council.
A Suggestion.
As a suggestion, the following is given to tho management of tonnis here 
at Tech. There is a Pittsburgh Texxnis Association, consisting of numerous 
clubs. Each club is i-epresented by a six-man team. These teams play oacli 
other at least twice throughout a season schedule, tournaments being played 
each week.
It would be a good plan for Carnegie Tech to join tfliis association, and 
gain the experience of playing nine match tournaments against tho best in 
Pittsburgh, for in that way, six men are kept developed at all times for tour
nament play, which makes it especially nice for a four-man team, when two 
extra men are continually in form, and ready to step in the breach, which 
might be made by the absence of one of the first four.
Furthermore practice on foreign courts is just what is needed for tho 
tennis team, for it can easily be remembered that the team last year tiod 
three matches on foreign courts, and oven went so far as to lose one, making 
it necossary to play tlio deciding match on a neutral court. A bit of practice 
on other courts in Pittsburgh would help greatly in eliminating thoso losses 
and tie matches.
Doc .Marks, our ever-present (?) "Quack, wants some publicity, so 
he x'equests this be published. Being of ail obliging nature, wo accede, but 
ask you, dont blame us:
Doc.Why is a lxorse who walks down the street with his head hang
ing down like Monday of next week?
Us (as usual)I-Iulx? Cant hear you. Whats the question?
"Doc.(Repeats the question.)
Us."Dont know; why?
"Doc.Because, it's necks weak.
Bert says this. I leave it to those, that know. Is it true?
" Red Godden thinks that becauso he is allowed ono hour to oat he has 
gotta eat that whole time.
AN IDEA A WEEK
SelfishnessHurrah for Me, down with you! Such is evident in all 
walks of life. Were forever after thewoll, we might say, tho Almighty 
Dollar. Again, we might say, our own woll-belng, our own good tlmos. 
Thoughts for the mere out,side world, or the mere other person aro entirely 
too seldom given. Result: The real thing in life that countsSERVICE 
is forgotten. Seivice was not invented only for tho first person, but for the 
second person as well. And, after all Is said and done, tho real kind of serv
ice that counts is service to the second pei*sonthose other than ourselves.
Why were you not at the basket ball game last Saturday? Ask yoursoU 
that question. How many can truly answer that question without the word: 
Selfishness?-
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
1 Thanks to Mr. Haaren and Buddy Overend for their co-opex-ation.
Inter-Fraternity Dormitory Basket Ball 
Leagues
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE FEDERAL LEAGUE
Delta Mu Boss Hall Phi Epsilon Pi
Iappa Sigma Rho Sigma Nu Delta,Epsilon Omega
Scobell Hall Henderson Hall Kappa Sigma
Beta.Theta Pi Delta Upsilon Tau Gamma Phi
XI Sigma Upsilon Square and Compass Theta XI
Sigma Alpha Epsilon lota Sigma Delta Theta Tau
Alpha Pi Pi Kappa Alpha Delta Phi Delta
Woodlawn Club Sigma Epsilon Phi
SCHEDULE OF GAMES 
Tuesday, January 10, 1922.
7:00 p. m........................................Delta Mu versus Kappa Sigma Rho,
7:20 p. m................ .....................Boss Hall versus Sigma Nu
8:30 p. m.......................................Phi Epsilon Pi, versus Delta Epsilon Omega
Wednesday, January 11, 1922.
,7:00p.m.'.......................................Henderson Hall versus Delta Upsilon
7:20 p.m.....................................Kappa Sigma versus Tau Gamma Phi ^
8:30p.m..............................................Scobell Hall versus Woodlawn Club
Thursday, January 12, 1922.
7:00 p.m.:.....................................Theta Tau versus Delta Phi Delta
7:20 p. m.....................................Beta Tlxeta Pi versus Xi Sigma Upsilon
8:30 p.m......................................Square and Compass versus Iota Sigma Delta
Tuesday, January 17, 1322.
7:00 p. m... v.................................Sigma Alpha Epsilon versus Alpha Pi
7:20 p. m......................................Pi Kappa Alpha versus Sigma Epsilon Phi
8:30 p. m........................................Tau Gamma Phi versus Theta Xi
Wednesday, January 18, 1922.
7:00 p. m..l...................................Boss Hall versus Henderson Hall
7:20 p. m........................................Phi Epsilon Pi versus Kappa Sigma
8:30 p. m........................................Woodlawn Club versus Delta Mu
Thursday, January f9, 1922.
7:00 p. m........................................Delta Epsilon Omega versus Tau Gamma Phi
7:20 p. m........................................Kappa Sigma Rho versus Sigma Alpha Epsilon
8:30 p. m.....................................Sigma Nu versus Delta Upsilon
Tuesday, January 24, 1922.
7:00 p. m........................................Scobell Hall versus Beta Tlieta. Pi
7:20 p. m........................................Henderson Hall versus Square and Compass
8:30 p. m........................................Kappa Sigma versus Theta Xi
Wednesday, January 25, 1922.
7:00 p. m.......................................Delta Upsilon versus Iota Sigma Delta
7:20 p. m....................-..................Tau Gamma Phi versus Phi Epsilon Pi
8:30 p. m.......................................Jti Sigma Upsilon versus Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Thursday, January 26, 1922. ,
7:00 p.m.........................................Theta Xi versus Theta Tau ,
7:20 p. m.......................................Alpha Pi versus Woodlawn Club
8:30 p. m.......................................r^ and Compass versus Pi Kappa Alpha
bief half
. to show |-
Spirit! 't |
V ' I
The first gaxnes of tho Inter-Frater
nity basket ball league are being 
played 'on Tuesday, Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings of this week. 
Twenty-three teams are entei*ed. They 
have been divided into three leagues, 
tlie American, National and Federal 
All games will be played iu the. Lang
ley Lab., where two courts will be 
available.
By arrangement with Mr. Moses at 
the Langley Lab., practice sessions 
can be had at the following times:
Monday evening, 7 to 9.
Friday evening, 7 to 9.
Saturday. 9 to 1H a. m., 1 to 4 p. m.
Each week tilve schedule lor that 
week will be posted ixx the Langley 
Lab. The managers of the teams will 
wi'ite in the scores after each game.
EDITORIAL CONTEST
FOR UNDERGRADUATES
(Continued From Pag<5 One.) 
itys icOntest committee, care of P. 
C. Pack, 6415 Groexxview avenue, Chi
cago, 111. This editorial will then 
automatically identify tho winner of 
a certificate Of merit and will repre
sent that particular institution in the 
intercollegiate contest.
Contest Rules.
(1) Contest will open Decembor
3, 1921, and . will close Febx*uaxy 15, 
1922, at midnight; (2) Ipditorials 
sxibnxltted) may nob exceed 500 word; 
(3) Type, or write logl]>ly on one 
sidp of sheet only; (4)- Write an assxtmed naxxxe in upper left corner of 
each sheet; (5) On tho faco of an 
oixvelope write this assumed naxxxe, 
enclosing a sheet of paper on which 
Is written yoxxr own name, age, 
home city, class, and local address 
and telephone number, and seal en
velope, pinning or clipping it to your 
editorial.
Tho local 'committee will number 
each editorial, upon receipt, m. an 
additional chock on tho Identity of 
its author.
Philip C. Pack, grand editor of tho 
fraternity, In commenting on the con
test, saidi: "Wo fully expect 5,000
entries. In tlio past our chapters 
have conducted local editorial con
tests and we base this estimate up
on the results those local contests 
obtained. It will bo an event of xxutional interest, especially among tlio 
nations collogo man and women.
Girls Basket Ball 
Team Plans Games
Keen Competition Shown For 
Place on Team
Thritlling rumors aro floating 
around "Maggie Murph" and Design 
as to "the big varsity. Class prac
tices are being held hot and heavy. 
Tho four classes, Design and Physical 
"Ed tenuis aro all getting into fine 
shape.
Miss Bowman, official coach, im
ports fine material and big prospects. 
Magnificent material has been creep
ing out from the Freshman girls and 
the Physical Eds of course hold their 
own reputation secure. They are go
ing to give the old-timers such as 
Jean Eakin, "Issy Winner. "Peg 
Taylor, Helen Reed\ and in fact the 
whole last years varsity a run for 
their money.
The schedule as Manager Jean 
Eakin has so far arranged is:
Thiel (horo) February 9 or 11.
Genova (there) February IS.
Westminster (here) February 25.
Westminster (thex*e) March 4.
Thiol (there) March 11.
Plans are under way for a special 
train to Geneva Februairy IS as the 
girls play a preliminary to tho Tech 
xxiens game. We hear from Geneva 
that they aro going to make a big 
time of ita Carnegie Tech night!
There aro also bright hopes for a 
girls varsity dance after the West
minster game horo February 25.
Through tho kindness of Mr. Hoaren the girls have secured the mens 
gym for practice.
This is for 'the ladies as well as 
the gentlemen. When your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 3S9. Wo, will call for it 
and deliver it. Our work is tho 
best, our service quick, our prices 
reasonablo. Miss OLeaxy, 3933 
Forbes street.
OUR BIG SEMI-ANNUAL CLEAN-UP
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULT8
Dancing
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
Every Saturdiiy. 
SATURDAY, JAN. 14
EARL FULLERS
COLLEGE BOYS 
Schenley Dancing Club
"We've Fitted Feet For Fifty Years
All Fall and Winter Boots for Men and Women Reduced in Price.
Values $S to $14.
Mens$5.85 to $10.85; Womens$3.85 to $10.85.
P. LUDCBUEHL / SON
Penn and Frankstown East Liberty
A REE us 
About our Sppcxal Offor 
Four Suits Pressod $1.60. 
AIKEN FORBES TAILORING 
COMPANY 
5817 FORBES STREET 
Phone Hazel 3601
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
ProfltB...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
RADIO
HEADQUARTERS
PRICES RIGHT.
BEST OP SERVICE 
COMPLETE SETS 
$10 TO $165
Concert overy evening.
General Lamp and 
Fixture Co.
0014 CENTER AVENUE 
EAST LIBERTY 
Hiland 3351 
mtmmmmmmmmmmmmmutmm
PhoneCourt 3550
Honus Wagner Sporting- Goods Company
438 WOOD STREET
Sporting G-oods of Every Description.
THEARN WDSY,JRU1Y 1J 91R2EU1YW 
M^IBriBriBBIBMBIWBiHBB|MM|MjpWiiiiBiiiililMfflBppT
HOUSANDS of smokers have proved itand now give the verdict 
to you Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes
None has the delicious
FLAVOR of the finestTurkish 
None gives the ENJOY
MENT of the finest Turkish 
None will SATISFY you as 
will the finest Turkish 
None but the highest grade 
and personally selected 
Turkish tobaccos is used in 
MURAD.
To enjoy 100% pure Turkish 
at its VERY BESTto reach 
the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
you have but to smoke 
MURAD
Try MURAD today and
mm Judge for
Yourself/  

---------------------------------------------------

FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 11, 1922
ALUMNI PAGE
MELLON MAKES 
GIFT TO TECH
Property on Forbes St. Val
ued at $135,000,00 Donated 
to School
About three week ago Mr. Modion. 
guvo to Toch LIio piece ol! property 
on. FoMcs street on which the Girin' 
Dormitories, Mellon Hall and Mellon 
Annex are locutod. Tho gift 1O valued 
at $135,000 and Is certainly a groat 
aaaet to our Institution,
During tho last two years and 
through. the kindness of Mr. Mellon, 
Toch was granted tho privilege of 
using thi property, and in return 
wus asked to puy only tho tax. It is 
another step nearer tho completion or 
our ca/mpus.
It is rtainly gratifying to the 
Alumni for It goes as a donation to tho 
four million dollar fund they have 
undertaken to raise in twenty-five 
years in order to get the, eight mil
lion dollars wliileh will ho granted to 
us at that time by the Carnegie Com
mission.
MARGARET MORRISON
ALUMNAE NEWS
Don't forgot to conio to the tea in 
tho Little House/ on Saturday, tho 
14th. Mary Ego is hostess and she 
Js planning to give us ah oven more 
delightful timo than wo hud last 
year. <SJio will have to go some to 
outdo tho record sot by Marlon Keef
er, but she looks to us like a good 
hot. Tho aids will be Oliver Ifrooso 
Bragdon, Grace Little Haushaltor, 
Carolyn. Bowman Carlisle, Genevieve 
Ouwhwa, Elizabeth Law rio and Mar
tha Lloyd. The hours aro from 8 to 
5 oclock.
Attention 'ODers! Our sister class 
1919 has stolen ou r laurels ! Thoy 
load tho procession of paid up meni
li) ors ilnd GSLT are trailing along in 
fourlJh. (place. This -will never do. 
You who read this article are paid 
up, of courso, and tho ones who 
aren't will never nee it. But you 
can got -after them, and see that they 
IIIMIt it. Ask every '09er you know 
If sho has sent In her check yet. 
Sho won't ho irasiulted for sho has 
probriibly just forgotten it temporarily 
and is jus.t as anxiouB as tho rest of 
us to keep our ohms at the top. 
After all tho "Tooting" *wo have dono 
GUN cannot afford to have our glorious 
colors lowered! Got busy. Lend a 
hand.
No Danger of Colllolon Yet.
The moon Is' getting nearer to tho 
earth al a speed of about fourteen feet 
In 200 years. Astronomers up to tho ! 
present have not been able to explain j 
why this Is so.
Alumni Federation 
Holds Dec. Meeting
Committee Takes Steps on 
Degree King. Campus 
Week Unchanged
m
1
7011 tho student or prof.,
 tho finperb VENUS out
rivals ali for perfect pencil 
work. 17 blade dcgrccu and 
3 copying.
American Load 
Pencil Co. 
ajol'IflliAvn. _
Now.York
DO IT RIGHT!
With the Goodyear Welt Syntem
TECH SHOE REPAIRING
FORQE8 (Nonr Crnla)
IPlltANK BiliOTOlERS
0ll> Aveiuio Hoot Mhoj> 
nuflMlUh iUroot, Now Vork 
MA8TER-MADi; FOOTWEAR
( '
Exhibit Shop
In nil tho Inrcjor cltlon.
Mark .February 14 on your calen
dar right now, girls. Mark it with 
a big blue ppncll, or red or which
ever color of tho spectrum stands 
for great joy! That is the date oif 
our dunce and its going to be the 
'best one wove ever had. Wont li 
bo great fun to dance again In the 
old school, once the scene of our 
youthful frivolities? This dance was 
plunned with yon old-timers in mind. 
It 1O YOUR dance. Its going to bo 
informal, so dont say you havent 
anything to wear.
Wo will bo all friends together so 
it wont, -make any difference 
if you dont know the new duncesit is quite possible to waltz and twostep to the now tunes; so thats set
tled. Also wo are going to serve 
dinner before the dance, so you can't 
slay you have to Htay at homo to get 
hubby'si dinnerliring him along and 
let1,us feed him for. a chango. After
wards you can practice the now 
dances or rovlvo tho old ones as 
you XNN lit.
Got Grandma to stay with the kid
dles and como out and malco a night 
of it. Tt will do you good! You 
know tho lights go out early al. Margurot MorrlHon just as they used to 
do, so you needn't be late gotting 
home. Wo will toll you more about 
It next week, but begin to plan now 
so nothing can keep you. away.
HANDY MEM. 
Pads Renewable
Covers Everlasting
5 Sizes 25c and up
Tell it to Buddy 
He never forgets
WWIW'AW AWWVWVW.
'After Every Meal** .ms
TARTAN SQUAD
SCORES VICTORY
('Continued From Pago One.) 
and Pottoru olone guarding kept tho 
Waynoslmrg scoro down. In tho hist 
quarter with Toch loading by ten 
points tho WaynoHbuifo flvo wpuirtod 
and' snored oven, point boforo tho 
Tooh squadl managed to got a point. 
Dosoy scored tho hud, point for Toch 
and tho gamo oiulod with tho score 
<10 U) an.
Dosoy's work wi\s good throughout 
tho gamo, scoring 20 of Toclis -10
points, and making twelve of Ills Ilf
toon attompts at free throws. For tho 
vlsltom Clark pprformodi exception
ally well and led tho attack through
out tho game.
Toop10. Waynes'burg30.
Dosoy ....................F................... Long
Glbstfn .....................F............. McHenry
Boll .......................O...'.............. Clark
Sawyer ....................G............. Freeman
Potter ............1....G............... Bartlett
Field goals-(Dosoy 7, Gibson 3, 
Bell, Sawyer, Potter, Newman, Clark 
0, Long 3, McHenry 4, Freeman. Foul 
goalsDosoy, 12 out of 15; Freeman, 
7 out of 15; McHenry, 1 out of 3. 
SubstitutionsNewman for Bell, Ir
win for Bartlett, Bartlett for Irwin.; 
RefereeDaugherty. UmpireWeit
zel.
Tho postponed Decombor meeting 
of the Alumni Federation Board was 
held In tho Alumni Office on Thurs
day, Junuury 5. The minutes of -the 
last mooting woro read and approved.
Standing Committees.
Ml SB Stewart guvo'u flnunciul re
port on tho Alumnus. Mr. Batman 
guvo a. report on Clans and spolco of 
tho various Xmus parties that ware 
hold by tho Clans for undergraduates. 
Ho stated further that Clan work was 
progressing very nicoly, but showed 
where wo were falling below in mem
berships and suggested that wo take 
some steps in getting more members. 
Mr. Walton made a progress report 
on tho gymnasium.
New Business.
The question of the degree ring was 
discussed and a motion was passed 
to put this matter in the hands of a 
committee who would huve authority 
to uct for the Alu/mni. Miss I^eclitel, 
Mi\ Tilbrook and Mr. Butinun were 
appointed on this committee.
An Alumni Federation party to be 
held during the early part of tho 
year was discussed. It was decided 
to have a get-together party and tho 
following committee was appointed to 
work out details. Mir. J. I. Johnston, 
Arts; Mary L. Williams, Margaret 
Morrison; W. H. Oakley, Industries; 
A. C. May, Science.
It was decided to recommend to Dr, 
Baker us secretury that ono night of 
each Little Theater play bo ?et aside 
for Alumni and only Alumni be in
vited.
The next question taken up was in 
regard to changing Campus Week. 
After going over carefully all the de
tails it wns decided fchut the Board 
recommend to the Executive Council 
tliut Campus Week bo hold around the 
same time as usual.
It was decided to recommend an 
amendment to the Constitution where
by a man und wife, if both are graduutes or former students, will bo al
lowed to join the Federation for 
three-fourths of tho regular or delin
quent duos.
It was decided that tho Federation 
should adofrt unifprm stationery for 
all schools. Committoe in charge is 
Miss Bechtel, Miss Stewart, and Mr. 
Tilbrook.
It was moved that Mr. Lee and Mr. 
Luboon bo re-elected as the Alumni 
representatives to tho Athlotic Coun
cil. Motion passed.
It wus moved thut tho noxt meeting 
of tho Alumni Federation Board bo 
hold Monday night, January 23, and 
that tho meeting in February shoiid 
bo hold on tho 'regular designated 
night. Mooting adjourned.
Y. W. C. A. NOTES
NEW YORK CLAN
The regular monthly meeting of 
the New York Clan will bo held at 
Janssen's, Thirtieth und Broudwuy, 
January 18, 1922. This will bo a 
very imiportant meeting and every 
Clan member in New York City is 
cordially Invited to attend.
Tho annual New York Clan meet
ing will bo held in the Colonial 
Room oi the McAlpin Saturday, Feb
ruary 25. Details of this meeting 
will be published in a later issue of 
Tho Tartan.
The Alumni Office was very much 
pleased to receive a call from Betty 
Flnkelhor, '21. Betty is now taking 
u post gruduate course at Columbia 
University.
tivities was followed by the election 
of a temporary chairman and secre
tary.
The next meeting will take place 
early in Januury.
PITTSBURGH CLAN
The next meeting of the Pittsburgh 
Clun will be held during the latter 
part of January. A very interesting 
program is being arranged. The 
date of this meeting will be publish
ed in the next issue of Tho Tartan.
MEETING DATES
WASHINGTON, D. C., CLAN
The Washington Clan held its in
itial meeting December 9, 1921, at 
tho Bellevue Bantam Restaurant. 
The sixteen people present, includ
ing chieily Science and Industries 
men, represented nearly eveiy gradu: 
ating class from the veterans' of '00 
to 1921.
The meeting was culled to order 
(by Mr. William Norman, who Intro
duced Mr.' Walton. Mr. Walton 
spoke upon the work of the school, 
its original conception, its growth, 
the outlook for the future, some of 
the problems facing the school, and 
especially the necessity for develop
ing a strong alumni organization and 
of having tho alumni represented on 
the board of trustees'.
Mr. G. L. Tilbrook spoke of the 
work of the alumni organization, of 
tho development of clans and the 
service which they might render to 
tho school. The subjects of the 
athletic association and the alumni 
employment bureau were touched up
on and every alumnus urged to co
operate with both organizations.
Mr. Allen H. Willet, formerly pro
fessor of economics in the School of 
Science, spoke briefly, commending 
the activity of tho alumni organiza
tion and pointing out the fact that 
its success depended upon the indi
vidual alumnus making good) at his 
or her job."
An informal discussion of 'Clan acThe Science Board of Governors 
will meet in the Alumni Office at 
7:30 |p. m., Thursday, January 19.
Tho Industries Board of Governors 
will meet in the Alumni Office at 
7:30 p. m.., Thursday, January 19.
The Alumni Federation Board will 
hold its monthly meeting in the 
Alumni Office at 7:30 p. rn., on Mon
day, January 23, 1922.
Julie, and co-starred as a dramatic 
actress with Gerald Dumaurier in 
Outcast during its long run at 
Wyndbams Theater in the British 
metropolis. Possessed of a fine per
sonality and versatility, Miss Levey 
will entertain in the forthcoming 
week with a group of songs and 
characterizations.
Lew Dockstader, Americas most 
distinguished minstrelmun and a 
monologist who has no peer in ull 
the theaters of the world, is to be 
here with a new line of chatter. In 
the humor of its stories and anec
dotes, it is said to eclipse his well 
remembered characterization of the 
late Theodore Roosevelt and the 
Big Stick.
Vaughn Comfort, the opera singer 
of unusual talents and personal mag
netisms, is to make his local debut 
and to render a group of good songsHe has a fine voice of great com
pass und fine timber, and has evoked 
the highest enthusiasm from real mu
sic lovers.
LOST
Carnegie Handbook with registra
tion card. Return to Dean Tarbells 
'office.
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes
J Fred Fargcl, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BiiHPiiinnuiiiMini
AT THE GRAND
AT THE DAVIS
Throughout the week which begins 
Monday, Januury 9, at the tAvo-u-day 
performances, beginning ut 2:00 und 
8:00 oclock respectively, the Duvis 
Theuter will provide for its putrons 
u program of lteith vuudeville in 
which there will 'be every element of 
artistry und variety. iSeldom have 
so many distinguished names been 
found upon a single roster in the twou-day, for although Ethel Levey, the 
international star, is the tltulur top 
of the bill, there is not un act in 
the program that is not of headline 
caliber. It will be Miss Leveys first 
performance in Pittsburgh in a de
cade. She was formerly the wife of 
George M. Cohan and is the mother 
of Georgette Cohan, the yoilng act
ress who has figured quite extensiv. 
fy in the puibllc prints of late. Now 
the wife of Graham White, the fam
ous aviator, Miss Levey has spent 
die last ten years In London and 
Paris, and has made but .infrequent 
and short visits, to New York. She 
has been starred in the big revues, 
such us Hello Ragtime, Hello 
Tango,. Here and There, Watch 
Your Step, Three Cheers and' Oh,
The child who has reached all 
heaits, little Jackie Coogan, has 
given to the screen another big photopluy, My Boy, which has been 
booked) to head an excellent program 
at the Million Dollar Grund, Pitts
burgh, next week, starting Monday 
morning, .Tunuury 9. Juclde,. whose 
round, chubby face, wonderful brown 
eyes and mischievous yet angelic 
ways have endeared him permanent
ly to countless numbers of film fans, 
climbed to fame in two photoplays, 
The Kid and Pecks Bad Boy. 
Each of them veritable classics, they 
are actually surpassed by My Boy. 
Nothing more deliciously amusing or 
grippingly humun hus ever come to 
the screen, it is a big story, won
derfully told with Jackie positively 
more irresistible tlinn ever.
ERRATA
In the lust issue of the Turtan the 
Gamma Mu Epsilon- was referred to 
as an honorary mining fraternity. 
This should have read "Profesional 
Engineering Fraternity.
Fathers voiceViolu, husnt thut 
young man started for home yet?
Clever Collegiute OlafIve reach 
ed third, sir.
Fathers voiceWell, steal, you 
busher, steal.
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School........... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service..........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service......... 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
^^T?T!TnfiTJTrTJir3C1v^^^^^y,,3ZZII
Character
Building
Early association with a 
strong banking institution 
will not-only inculcate thrift, 
but the kindly advice of its 
experienced officers will as
sist you materially.
We welcome the accounts 
of sincere men and women.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts tufedh. Pa.
MRS. WEAVER ENTERTAINS
Mrsj F. P. Weaver, president-in
ch arge at Forbes Hall, entertained the 
girls at a ten oclock party on last 
Thursday night. The mnln part of 
the evening was spent in dancez, 
oliancez and mangez, with some very 
special impersonations.
Miss I'jbnrsbach, Y. W. OJ A. secrotatry at tjio University of Pittsburgh 
spolco to tho girls last Wednesday 
afternoon at tho regular woolcly moot
ing. Sho told thorn of I lio history and 
of tho workings of tho Student Friend
ship Fund - and stressed that tho 
giving during our drive next woolc bo 
Baorlflolal. Kvory girl went awuy 
pledging within horsoll' to givo until 
it hurts. After all. that la tho only 
real way to give.
Wore you over cold and in tho 
dark? Tills afternoon If you want 
lo feel kinder toward folks than youve 
been feeling lately, if you want to 
feel as though you are a part of the 
world and not just of these limited 
statesdrop into the Recreation Hall 
at 1:30.
Tho students of Europe are working 
without heat and light. Would you do 
that and smile? And still go onand 
on?
They coulld be warm nnd they could 
see with u little bit of your help 
even a little bit. Come and find out 
how you can help. Were just going 
to talk it over among ourselves.
There is one way to insure the fu
ture of. Europe. Just'give its youth a 
little push.
FOUND
Trigonometry text hoolc. Inquire at 
| the Office of the Dean of Men.
TEIM
FOR
FSVE CEOTS
B130The Flavor Lasts!
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, care Chelsea Club, 829 East 
BOSTONSecretary, Mary Wight, Harris Hall, Deaconess Road. 
BUFFALOActive Member, W. H. lliegor, Sizer Forge Company. 
CHICAGOSecretary, J. J. Kennedy, 3748 Wrightwood Avenue. 
CINCINNATI- -Active Member, Mary Zarobslcy, 11 Bella Vista Place. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, Morton G. Kingsley, 17S17 Cannon Ave. 
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co. 
ERIE1Soorotary, H. A. Wobor, 938 East Sixth Street. 
llARRISBURG'v-Prosidonti, Ritchie Lawire, 2QG Market Stroot. 
HARTFORDSecretary, L. M. Bloch, 30-1 Garden Avenuo.
1 lUNTXNGTON-Soorotary, J. Jr. l.)o Young, 808 Second St., li. 
JOHNSTOWNSecretary, n. L. Carroll, 220 Vino Stroot;. 
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Caiuoron, 431 Riverside Drive. 
NORFOLK- -Acting Secretary, W. II. Sands, Bank ol* Commoroe 
Building.
i PlULADELPVilAPresident, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company of Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trusl Building. 
PITTSBURGHSecretary, .1. W. Batman Carnegb Institute of
Technology.
ST.. LOUISActive Member, M. A. Zeller, 19-16 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTONSecretary, \V. II. Norman, Thirteenth Street, N.
\Y.: Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., Engineering Dept. 
YOUNGSTOWNPresident F. C. Beede, South High School; M. M. 
C Secretary, Elizabeth Stevenson, 722 Bryson Street.
\Y A T C IT T H E CL A N CO L IT M N E V E li Y W REI\
Charles E. Skinner
W
HAT is insulation?a necessary evil; 
the insulation engineer?likewise a nec
essary evil;such, too often, was the oldtime 
formula. What wonder, with such a stigma, 
that the vast majority of budding engineers of 
bygone years side-stepped that branch of the 
electrical art which was in such ill-repute.
Fortunately, a few far-visioned young men of 
unusual caliber saw the great possibilities in this 
field of endeavor and concentrated many of their 
best years upon it. Foremost among these few 
who have developed the insulation problem to a 
leading position in the art, stands Charles E. 
Skinner, the head of the Research Department of 
the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Co.
For over thirty years, Mr. Skinner has been 
delving into the whys and wherefores of the insu
lation problem, from extreme theoretical studies 
to the most practical applications. His work 
began at a time when there were no theories 
worth while to consider, and when there were no 
methods worth while to work with. It was not 
only necessary to develop the insulation art from 
the ground up, but all the tools of attack had to 
be developed, and this latter means far more 
than mere words can convey.
As an insulation engineer, Mr. Skinner has 
always faced the necessity of utilizing a great 
array of materials which are inferior in mechan- . 
ical characteristics to those,of the rest of the struc
ture, such as papers, fibers, cottons, fabrics, mica, 
varnishes, asphaltums, oils, and various other un
mechanical materials. Such materials are prac
tically all affected, or destroyed, by undue heat. 
Many of them are easily penetrated by moisture, 
the arch enemy of insulation. Practically none of 
these materials individually is ideal for the pur
pose desired, nor are they perfect in combination. 
Consequently, the history of insulation is a story 
of struggle, of frequent disappointment, and ofttimes mysterious failure. v
It is now fully realized that the insulation 
engineer is a vital and constructive factor in the 
development of the electrical art. With the 
great advances in recent years his high position 
in the art is becoming more and more recog
nized, as the difficulties of his problems are 
better realized. It may be said truly, that the 
high position of the Westinghouse Company is 
due, to a large extent, to the far reaching ac
complishments of its insulation engineers, of 
whom Mr. Skinner is the leading exponent.
Westinghouse
V
L /WESTINGHOUSE^ j 
ELECTRIC )A
,'-v
