I WOMENS SENIOR BALL iWM. PENNFRIDAY
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
MUSIC HALL 11:30
VOL. XXII NO. 24CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1928
PECK MILLS WILL 
PLAY AT WOMENS 
BALL,FRIDAY NIGHT
William Penn Blue Room to 
be Scene of Senior Womens 
Annual Formal This Year
SENIORS TO HAVE UNUSUAL
SENIONRTHA NAAHOAVULUARX Hops, Frog Legs and Dizzy Reptiles Are
Observed by Wandering Nature LoverInstead of the customary engraved 
commencement invitations, this years 
senior class wilj send out a booklet 
in a" leather cover with a Carnegie 
seal on the front. This booklet will 
contain the list of class officers, variNEXT TERM REGISTRATION
ON SEPTEMBER 24 AND 25
Registration for the school year 
, 7 ~ r . 192S-29 will take place September 24,What tools these mortals bo! ecstaeb.e over it. But a caricaturist 25 COIItnlrv to ,ho rllmor school
And believe you me, that holds today could make a photographic copy of it, WQul(, no| oonlmonCB util October .1.and call it a day. His work would be 
done.as much as it did in the comparative
ly remote period when it was first utNATL HONORARY 
FRATERNITIES'WILL 
MAKE CALLS TODAY
ALUMNI INVITED TO 
BE PRESENT; PRICE $6
Charming Favors and Dance Pro
grams Promised; All Plans 
Completed
The womens senior ball, to take 
place Friday evening in the Blue 
Room of the William Penn Hotel is 
to have its music furnished by Peck 
Mills orchestra, one of the very finest 
obtainable in this vicinity. This or
chestra has played at many of the out
standing social events in Pittsburgh 
and its music has always been of such 
a delightful quality as to make dan
cers remember it with deep pleasure. 
The_ statement that Peck Mills or
chestra is to supply the strains for the 
dancers at the senior ball is equiva
lent to saying that this dance will be 
the highlight among the social affairs 
of this college year.
The sale of final tickets for the ball 
is now being conducted in Margaret 
Morrison and the College of FineArts. 
As originally announced, the admis
sion price is $6. pf this amount, $2 
were paid at the time of the sale' of 
the preliminary tickets. The1 remain
der must be paid immediately. Tickets 
should be purchased from the depart
ment member appointed to sell them. 
Betty Burkeliouse has charge of the 
sale of tickets in the Science Depart
ment. Ann Schneider in the Social 
Work Department, Helen' Krepps in 
the Household Economics Department, 
Jane Zimmers in the Combination 
Course. Virginia DeArment in the Cos
tume Be. Department, Virginia Rose 
for the English Minors, and both 
Florence Balph and Katherine Lowe 
in the Secretarial Department.
An invitation is extended to the 
alumnae <of Carnegie to attend the se
nior ball. All who desire tickets 
should communicate with Doris Purdum, Forbes Hall. The cost of tickets, 
for graduates is the same as that'for 
seniors, $6.
The ball this year should be the 
most enjoyable in the history of this 
annual event. Not only is the orches
tra one of the best-known and mostlilced but the ballroom of the William 
Penn is an ideal place for staging the 
dance. The favors, the programs, the 
dinner, everything is to .attractive that 
the women of the class of 1928 are 
already congratulating themselves 
upon the assured success of their se
nior ball.
Committees under Hannah Eastman 
have been working faithfully to make 
the preparations for the ball and they 
feel that everything that can possibly 
be done to make tlie/ball an event 
that insures a happy evening and 
pleasant memories has had their care
ful attention.
, Supplementary to registration, classes 
, i begin on September 26. Even though
i. i ,T i  i r 4V, f * I one-part of the. loom is a sweet. | sch00] wju start a week or so later]
..s class committees, facts about the te,ed- To be eon"* of the fact, | gentle, baby-faced child holding up  thn  llI(1 tWs y0Br< vacations occupy : 
class, and a formal invitation. The ^ust tilke 11 toddle to various w. iggling frog by the foot with her tlleir ordinary importance and will he
same booklet may -ilso be had with a 'intS f 11,0 mpus- The left hand and drawing an outline oi of Uu, ,onKUl. Thanksgivingsame booklet, may a so be had >; Morrison biology lab wouldn't be a its leg with her right. Across the ta- recoss msts troIn Nove&ber 2S to Docardboard cover with the seal. ! bad destination. hie from her is another feminine ar- 1 oelAber 2. The Christmas recoss la
The idea is to have an unusual and ! As you near the lab door you hear list, tl; wiling a string of Chinese red KcilQduled from Docombor 1G to Janu| ary 2, on which day classes resume j
final examinations. The test period j
Other Unusual Attractions 
Offered in Program at Gen
eral Assembly This Morning
unique invitation which will serve as i gentle mumurs interspersed by sharp-1 beads before the eyes of her model.in 
a souvenir of the 'graduating exercises. | ?r you enter 50,1 , tn'lhe'greatly feai-od period ' of
A meeting of the senior class will j hear more At ' ther tnl),e f0Ur m0re SjSntl8tS Anal examinations. The test nerlod
XYLOPHONE SOLO BY 
CHARLES LAUGHLAN
be held next week to continue prpa
rations for graduation.
Campus Week Dates 
Decided By Council
"Come 011, honey, hold still. 
"Quit climbin', you little egg. 
Is'ums scared in ims ittle cage? 
"Eeeek! hes out!
with .serious faces are entirely pre-1 extends from February 1 to February Ioccupied in twirling their speciments 8 Registration for the second semes- around in their cages ... order to pro- j tel. ,g m February 12 and 13 
| duce dizziness and eventual stillness.
"Come 011, dearie, come on and lets j And oil the floor are two more adsee your leg. j diets, each one on her hands and
"My gosli, those eyes! j knees. One takes a frog from his
"Oli, heck! How can I do anything | cage, dampens it thoroughly under 
when he wont hold still. the water spigot, sets it on the floor
I ask you. what does that sound I and jabs it in the rear with a pencil
May-4 5 is Selected as Best like? Yes* 11 sounds pretty batty, but j The other immediately grabs a ruler  j its all right. The objects of such en- and measures the distance betweenTime to Hold Annual 
Affair
At the meeting of Student Council 
last Tuesday night, it was decided to 
hold the 1928 Campus Week on Fri-, 
day and Saturday, May 4 and 5. Coun
cil also approved the appointments 
made by William Ivunkel, general 
chairman of Campus Week. Walt 
Rogers was appointed producer of the 
Campus Week show and Alvin Brown 
its business manager. George M. 
Wile was appointed assistant treas
urer of Campus W^ek, Gerald L. Sei
bert, social chairman. The chairmen 
of the various other committees are: 
Stewart C. Ralston, Publicity, etc.; 
Don McClure, Vaudeville show; 
George Campbell, S'weepstakes; Qual
ifications, Wayne High; Athletics. 
Robert Wright; Burlesque, Carl Ham
ilton; Ticket Sales, Mark Seibert. 
Chairman of Girls Events is Adele 
Hahn; general planning, John McNair. 
Construction, James Austraw. Elec
trical committee, Eta Kappa Nu.
Only one chairman has yet to be
appointed. This will be done in a
short time and will be announced with 
a list of all the members of the differ
ent sub-committees.
As the days, May 4 and 5 are agree
able to the faculty, and do not inter 
fere with previous student plans, the 
.annual Interscholastic Track Met 
will be, held as a part of Saturday 
afternoons program. As the Inter
scholastic. track meet dat^e had been
set and the invitations to the High 
Schools sent out, it was felt that to 
change the time would detract from 
the success of the meet. Since the 
track meet attracts most of the best 
scholastic track athletes in the dis
trict, th Campus Week crowds will
dearment are not hlms caught by j the wet spots. This continues till the 
slies taking advantage of leap year, j frog dries. He is again dampened 
Rather, they are helpless little frogs and jabbed. An observer begins to 
undergoing the torture of a deluge of i feel a positive terror that he may at 
feminine affection which, in later j any moment be snatched up, damyears, will probably be directed to- I pened, and jabbed, too. One feels an 
ward offspring, pet pups, or husbands. I urge to leave. Well, there are other 
And the picture the lab presents j spots to visit on the campus. But 
well, Im not sure that an artist would j aren't mortals foolish, though!
Plumbing And Heating 
Congress At Carnegie
Two Plebes Will Give Clever Skit 
Containing Dancing and 
Wise-Cracks
Annual Three Day Conference 
to be Held in Industries 
Bldg. Mar. 21, 22, 23
EMINENT HOLLANDER TO 
SPEAK TO C.I.T. STUDENTS
Dr. Cornelius Lely, Engineer, Will 
Talk on Drainage and Flood 
Control
On Wednesday, Thursday and Fri
day, March 21, 22 and 2., in Indus
tries Building, the fourth annual 
three-day institute for the plumbing 
and heating trades will be held under 
the auspices of. the Carnegie Institute 
m a nu r ap Ntnv/ a n a r/iMi ; oC. Technology and the special direo-NAME Ot* NEW iW^GAZiNt tion of the Department of Industrial
 ________ Relations and the Department of
I Plumbing. Heating and Ventilating. 
Tickets For Little Theater to be! A spcc.in] faculty for the Institute is
STUDENT COUNCIL FAVORS
Given Out at Registrars 
Office
composed of Dr. Walter F. Rittman, 
professor and head of the Department 
of Commercial Engineering; William 
Crandoll, assistant professor of Com
mercial Engineering, who will discuss 
accounting and selling problems; 
Samuel E. Dibble, who Is Theodore
Dr. Cornelius Lely,, eminent drain- The, much-discussed question of 
age and flood expert of Holland, presi- | Little Theater tickets came up again
dent-curator or Delft University and j at the Student Council meeting last Pr0fes801. P|nmblngi Haal.
president of the Zuiderzee-Board will [Tuesday evening, when Mr. Rogers, ,1(1 ventilating; Harry S. Hotter, 
deliver a public lecture on Flood , who bad been appointed Berornl t fessor lln<| of .tm011l
Prevention" In the Union, Monday, weeks ago to investigate the matter, of |>|,vlVOL and A. ...... assist-A T---- ..1. *1 O 1 O . Oft  > in .mdn,. Il,n it nit I-----  ..1 t 1.1.. V* > . .) I > >... I.. I U n i ', ./illant professor of Mechanical IQnglnoor* 
ing, who will discuss technical prob
lems with special emphasis on the 
subject or "Transmission of Heat 
From Various Fuels Into Water."
In this years program,' special
March 12, at 8:30 p. m. under the aus- reported. Ills findings to the Council. | 
pices of the Carnegie Institute of it. seems that there are available to 
Technology. students,, 216 tickets for the whole
For'lore than forty years Dr. Lely | run of each play and, in addition, 25 
lias been engaged in the solution of or 30 are usually left over each day
drainage and flood problems in -IIol . oi. :t I'wriormance, and may be oh- ^ ...... ...........
land. In 1886, he was appointed by | tallied by students for that nlgllt.  .XIN24CAwifi bo placed'on'the business j
; aspects of the problems facing mem! Public Works of the city of The Hague 
 from 1908 to 1013.
INDUSTRIES JUNIORS PLAN 
BANQUET GET-TOGETHER
be treated to some record breaking Flrsl clmmbor rol. three yBar9; 
performances In addition to the of U,u coloy of Surmam0
track meet, there will be a full pip- * and Alderman for
I ram of other events.
I The men who have been appointed 
to head the committees are men who 
are active 011-the Campus. George M.
Wile, the assistant treasurer oiT Cam
pus Week is a Junior in Civil Engin
eering. He is the treasurer of Sci
ence Senate, assistant treasurer of 
Student Council, and a member of the 
Glee Club. Gerald L. Seibert, social 
chairman, is a Senior in Commercial 
Engineering.
The chairman of the Publicity Com 
mittee, S. C. Ralston, is a Junior 
Editor of the Tartan, a member of 
(Continued on Page Four)
the Zuiderzee association to study the | The problem was, the Council felt
problem of the drainage of the Zui-1 to obtain a more satisfactory means , j^ers of the plumbing and heating inderzee for which he published hisj and place for distributing these Btn-1 clustrlea. Special lectures will be I
scheme in 1891. The scheme, sane-j dent tickets. It was suggested that Kiven by the faculty named above on!
Cloned by the Dutch Parliament in this might be handled In the llegls- | nbjowtH related to accounting, selling I
1918, is at present being carried out. | trars Office in the Central Building. amj adverbi&ng. Considerable discus*
In addition to his engineering ac-1 Arrangements have therefore been i Hj()ll wm |,0 spent 011 such topics as
tivitles, Dr. Lely has occupied a made to carry out this idea, beginning | Co-operative' Advertising as a means
today, Tuesday, March li. Tickets I 0[ meeting competition with other in* I
may now be secured by students j dustrlos.
every , day of a performance, from [ Th|g three.(lay |nHutule was Inau*
Miss Woods in the Registrars Office gurRt0(, by c. n. Connelly and Pro*
from 9 to 12 and from 1 to 5. No fG8(JOI, gumuel 10. Dibble as a means of ,
tickets will be distributed between j ixoiry.iuiJC master plumbers and heating
12 and 1 oclock. an(| ventilating contractors to solve
Council was asket'r to approve the i their own spoclal problems
prominent place in governmental re
sponsibilities. lie was Minister for 
Public Works for three different per
iods between 1891 and 1918; member 
of the Second Chamber of the StatosGeneral for three terms; member of
The Industries Juniors met Thurs
day to make nominations for the In
dustries Senate. The nominees at pres
ent are C. E. Kumpf, R. M. Waterson, 
M. A. Smith and G. W. Durr.
At the, meeting a suggestion was 
made that the class hold a banquet. 
Because there were too few present to 
do - anything definite concerning the 
matter, it was tabled until enough 
men could assemble to make it possi
ble.^
A meeting will be held Thursday 
at 12:20 in Room 104 Industries to dis
cuss the banquet further and to make 
appointments to committees to make 
arrangements for the affair. The ban
quet will be a great, get-together of 
the Junior Industries class, where 
they can meet one another away from 
books and work, and where nothing 
but a good time need be thought 
about.
Most of the Juniors are interested 
in an affair of this type, but an ex
pression of their interest by attend
ing the meeting is the only thing that 
can make It possible.
Y.W.C.A. Will Hold Open 
Discussion Meeting Mar, 6
name of the now all-school magazine, 
the "Carnegie Quarterly which has
.......................................... 1 been getting under way for the lastSpecial interest 111 this lecture T> 1 ,, ,, . ., , . few months. Mr. Rogers, who hasshould be evidenced by Pittsburgheirf  *  .. ^ been chosen Editor, explained thebecause of the present efforts of city . and county officials to keep.tlood haz. Projec t0 te Com.c l and asked for 
ards in this district at a minimum. Council s approval rtf it. here fol-______________ j lowed- quite a little discussion as to
I the advisability of starting anotherGLFE CLUBS TO PRESEN 1 I magazine 011 the campus, but since
Student Council is not to give anyHOME CONCERT MAR. 23 j financial aid, a motion was passed
(Continued on Page Four.)
An annual event, and among the 
outstanding features of itp type at 
Carnegie, it has boon partially If not 
wholly responsible for the establish
ing, or the plans to establish, similar 
conferences at the University of Illi
nois, Massachusetts Institute of Tecli* 
nology and other large institutions. 
No tuition fee Is charged; the meet
ing is open to members of the plumbin and heating industries all over the 
country. Yearly attendance at the 
conference has averaged 300.
At General Assembly, to be held in 
Carnegie Music Hall, today, the fol
lowing honorary fraternities on the 
campus will make calls for member
ship:  Tau Sigma Delta, Tau Beta Pi, 
Tlieta Tau and Pi Delta Epsilon.
Tau Sigma Delta, national honorary 
fraternity of architecture and the al
lied arts, will call three men. To be 
eligible for membership one must 
have received 110 "Rs or "Fs in liis 
entire course up until the time of call. 
1-Ie must also be a senior. The men 
who have been selected for call at this 
time are: Chester Wiseman and
Stewart Brown, architects, and Dallas 
Johnson, In painting and decorating.
Tau Beta Pi, national honorary en
gineering fraternity, has elected to in
vite six men from the junior and se
nior classes of the College of Engi
neering. Eligibility In this honorary 
consists of being at least a junior and 
also of not. having received an "R and 
having removed all 'Fs" if any were 
received. In the junior class, only the 
upper one-eighth of those eligible, and 
in the senior class the upper onefourth of those eligible are called. The 
men receiving this honor are: T. L.
McCombs, G. M. Wile, W. (I. Carson. 
P. C. Barton, A. W. Miller and J. W. 
Luoma.
Tlieta Tau, national professional en
gineering fraternity, will call men 
from the College of Engineering wha 
have shown marked evidence of hav
ing good scholarship, pleasing person
ality, high character and activities. 
The-men to bo called are:
PI Delta ICpsilon, national honorary 
journalistic fraternity, choosos It 
men from Industries, Arts and' Engi
neering 011 the basis of meritorious 
work 011 the Carnegie publications. 
The following are the 111011 who will lo 
called:
Mon called to-Tlieta Tau: Wile,
McCombs, Tomer Bunker, Galbreat.h, 
Loxterman, Auld, Truman, Gommill, 
Luoma, R. II. Johnson, Suosserott. 
Schmidt.
Donald Putt, president of Student 
.Council, will open the assembly with 
the announcement of official and other 
notices, and will then turn the assem
bly over to the honoraiies that are 
calling, and to those who will put on 
the entertainment.
A variety of music, comedy and 
dancing will be rendered in a highly 
(Continued on Page Four.)
senied  S cb ^jCamegie Seniors Are Urged to Join
the Womens Glee Club will be held 
011 Friday evening, March 23, in 
Carnegie Music Hall, followed by the 
dance in the Union immediately after.
Since' the Home Concert marks the 
, closing of the Glee Clubs1 activities for
I The Y. W. C. A. will hold an open 
I discussion meeting in the Margaret j to be expected,
I Morrison Recreation Hall, Tuesday,  be varied, including numbers by both j or as
Alumni Federation After Graduation
comes a member of the Alumni Fedthe year*a very excellent program is eration. From the time of graduaThe selections will | tion lie is classed either as a paid-up 
delinquent members. . Dues
A graduate of the Carnegie Insti- j nollars #each. This will pay up a life 
tute of Technology automatically be-j membership of 1150.00 In the Federa
tion and there will be 110 more trouble
New Haven, Conn.:(IP)Herbert 
Hoover received 1,258 of the 2.177 
votes cast by Yale faculty members 
and undergraduates in a recent straw 
vote on presidential choices, conduct
ed by the Yale News. He received 
S30 more votes than his nearest com
petitor, A1 Smith of New Yorl?. Dawes, 
Ritchie, Lowden, Baker. Young. Reed 
and Curtis finished in the order men
tioned.
March 6, at 5:30. The meeting, wiy j riubs, arranged so as to produce an I statements are sent out at the be
take the form of a dinner assembly | Interesting and enjoyable program, j ginning of the Federation's fiscal year,
at which Dr. Cliff Barbour, who gave 
a series of interesting talks to the 
Technon Club, will speak. Dr. Bar
bour will be glad-to answer any ques
tions and an open discussion for all 
is promised. Isobel Sheppard is the 
chairman of the dinner. The dinner 
will cost 25c per plate and all those 
wishing to attend should sign up on 
the bulletin boards in Arts and M. M. 
C. C. All women on the campus are 
invited to attend the meeting, regard
less of their membersllip to the Y.
The freshman representative to the 
"Y lias been elected. Martha L. 
Clark has been chosen to represent 
the Margaret Morrison freshmen. The 
Arts School  representative will be 
elected in several weeks. AH fresh
men in Arts should vote for their rep
resentative.
On March 20 the annual iiitercollegiate dinner will be held. This dinner 
is one means of meeting the active 
members of the "Y organizations of 
Pitt and P. C. W. All girls interested 
in going tp the dinner should manifest 
their wishes by being present at' the 
discussion dinner tonight or by tell
ing some member on the Y cabinet.
Mr. Walter Poyntz, student director j July lt and it is up to the graduate  mater.
with the yearly dues statement. The 
other $50.00 paid in by the graduate 
goes to the Carnegie Endowment 
Fund as the alumnus expression of 
loyalty and affection for his alma
will conduct the Mens Club and Mr. 
A1 Johnson will direct the Girls Club. 
The dance which will follow the
whether he wants to be on the black- Eaclr alumnus should remember 
or the red side of the Alumni Office that the Alumni Federation is merely 
ledger. The current, dues are $3.00 | an instrument to do .for him the work
concert will probably begin at ten a year and the delinquent dues $4.00, j he should want to do for hisalma
oclock lasting until one. The music 
will be furnished by one of the popu
lar campus orchestras, and every
thing points to an enjoyable evening. 
It is planned to decorate the Union 
for the occasion, simply but effec
tively.
Wilbur A. Scott, of the Music De
partment who is to manage the affair, 
appointed his committees during the 
past week. Robert Boyd, Paul Brautlgam, and Walter Sickles are making 
arrangements for the ^.concert; James 
Robertson, Carl Wrey and Charles 
Sliotts will take charge of the dance; 
and Wilfred Worland is handling the 
publicity. Miss Dorothy Roy, man
ager of the Girls* Club, with her two 
assistants, Misses Helen Ward and 
Pendleton Scully, will assist in the 
arrangements.
Insofar as preparations have just 
begun, very few definite details have 
been arranged. The tickets will be 
(Continued on Page Four.)
regardless of the number of years the I mater.
member has been delinquent. A sub-1 The alumni association acts as an 
scription to the Carnegie Alumnus 1 agent and exists only to enable the 
and the Tartan Is included in,the dues alumnus to serve his college.
Collegiate Imps Popular
. At Gamboi Of Guilds
fee. A portion of the dues, seventyfiv^ cents for each paid-up alumnus, 
is paid by the Federation to the 
individual college associations to en
able them to carry on their work.
Seniors should subscribe to a 
Carnegie Loyalty Bond, as quickly as 
possible aifter graduation, Carnegie 
Loyalty Bonds do away with the' 
bother of paying yearly dues and 
make the alumnus a life member of 
the Alumni Federation. We are to 
raise $4,000,000.00 for endowment by 
1946 and the Carnegie Corporation 
will at that time double the amount, 
giving us an additional $8,000,000.00, 
thus making a total endowment of at 
least $12,000,000.00 for Carnegie Tecli 
in 1946. Loyalty Bonds are $100.00 
each, and may be paid for.in full or In 
ten equal annual installments of ten
The alumni worlf of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, before 1919, 
was carried 011 separately by each 
college alumni association.
JJntil that time each association 
was an individual organization and 
carried 011 its alumni work Inde
pendently, This resulted in very little 
unity among the alumni of the four 
colleges and In January 1919 the four 
school associations joine'd forces and 
formed what Is now known as the 
Alumni Federation . of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
The elections have been so ar
ranged that five members remain on 
the Board for the coming year, and 
five new members are elected each 
year.
In the fall meetings are arranged of 
fContinued on Page Two.)
Last Friday nigiii might, well be 
written of in story form. At least it 
would provide one abstract from cam
pus life such as might be welcomed 
by Ben Ames Williams or E. Phillip 
Oppenheim in his frantic search for 
material around which to build one- of. 
those intriguing, interesting short, 
stores. That atmosphere of gaiety, 
sparkling life, and humorous banter 
has not been more prevalent in years 
than was characterized last Friday in 
the "Carnegie Clan Ballroom.
E^en through name, the Gambol, of 
the Guilds permeated the air with that: 
smooth, colorful gladdening effect. It 
has been a long while since the good 
old Union has been dressed in a garb 
similar to that of Friday evening, 
j Streamers, bunting and ribbons from 
all corners of the hall blended, subduedly with the Pittsburgliesque 
black and yellow of the ceiling, while 
placed around the various nooks ol! 
the room were such objects as char
acterize the Industrial School sponsor
ing the event.. The unique fashion of1 
assembling the dancers for the grand 
march by the use of an anvil was just, 
another bit. of clever planning on the 
part of the commlttoe In charge. At 
the same time, the usual muddle and 
confusion around the door was avoldod by simply permitting the grand 
march to Include the refreshment 
stand In Its itinerary. The unusual' 
refreshments, an Item of grave im
portance, were far above reproach and 
enthusiastically reserved and com
mented upon.'
The committee in charge of the 
dance was composed of Chairman 
Burnside, S'eibert, Davis, Broscious. 
and Durr.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1928
Former Member Of 
Faculty At Yale
D. W. Ross Director of Dra
matics, Estelle Bonnell at 
Western Reserve
It may be interesting to Carnegie 
alumni to know what their former 
professors and' instructors are doing 
after Having left for other positions. 
Alumni of the Dramatic Department, 
back an far as 1915, may be interested 
to know that Douglas W. Iloss, former 
instructor in dramatics, is now director 
for the Yale University Dramatic 
Association. Ho succeeded Edgar M. 
Wooley late in 1927.
Mr. Robs was very successful while 
In the Dramatic department and 
achieved great success, in bringing out 
dramatic talent in the students of his 
department. He also popularized I 
amateur theatricals at the Pittsburgh i 
Athletic Club.
The dramatic activities of Mr. Ross 
have taken him practically all over 
the world. He began his stage career 
in a small town on the Pacific Coast 
whore he gave musical concerts.' His 
first dramatic experience was with a 
stock company in British Columbia.
* GLEE CLUB HOME CONCERT v
Well, our glee club didnt win, I 
I* in the contest, but it took sec- *>
!* ond place which shows that it is
* still among the higher ups. And * 
now comes the home concert,
the gala occasion of the year for -V \ j
* the Glee Club. *!*
?<?, For your convenience, there is *5*
a box on the lower part of the *
I- page, which you can clip out and *
*5* mall as your order for tickets. *
*!? The alumni have always attend- *2*
* ed the home concert well, and *1*
*J* we expect a large number of *
I* them this year again. v
WHAT ABOUT RADIO NIGHT?
Did you hear the program?..........................................................
Did you enjoy it?... i.........................................................^.........
What numbers or parts of the program did you like best?.
ENDOWMENT FUND 
GROWS EVERY WEEK
Money Comes in From 
Great Many Sources to 
Help Swell Fund
I Slowly but surely me BncTowmeut 
| Fund grows, and the past, few weeks 
I have witnessed some substantial 
I gains. Of course, there were numerAmong the many things that he has | OUH gifts, which all help to
done: travelled in vaudeville com
panies, directed orchestras, taken 
leading parts in London dramatic 
productions, and taught in dramatic 
schools here and in New York.
Since 1922 he has confined himself 
to acting. He has played in "The 
Green Goddess, "The Tyrant", and 
Stringbergs "Father. A statement 
made by the Yale Dramatic Associa
tion at the time of his appointment 
says, "Douglas Ross, an English 
actor of high standing, brings to the 
position of dramatic director a splen
did professional background and many 
years of training os a producer, 1-Ie 
Is a remarkable combination of artist,- 
actor, producer, and manager. For 
thirty years he has been on the stage 
specializing in Shakespeare and iu 
classical comedies, nOt only acting 
parts himself,. but producing and managing productions,
Aluinnae of the Margaret Morrison 
College will be interested to know 
I hat Miss Estelle Bonnell has been 
added to the faculty of the depart
ment of group service work at the 
School of Applied Social Science, 
Western Reserve University. MissBonnell wa head of the department 
of recreation for the Margaret Morri
son College until last year.
CARNEGIE SENIORS ARE URGED 
TO JOIN ALUMNI FEDERA
TION AFTER GRADUATION
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
flic five remaining membors of the 
hoard and the live now members, and 
elections of officers are held. The 
Pfosidont, Treasurer and .Representativo of each of the four college asso
ciation boards are members of the 
Alumni Federation Board of Gover
nors.
Tho Alumni Federation Board of 
Governors then Is composed of throe 
members from each college assoeialion, plus I wo membors-at-large, who 
are elected from tho entire alumni 
body by all lhild-hp alumni. Tins 
board of fourteen members Is aug
mented by two ex-officio members.
All alumni matters are brought up 
before this group and the decisions 
for tho general alumni body, made.
Each college association consist 
of ten members.
Practically since the organization of 
the Alumni Association its secretary 
had also been the head of,the Bureau 
of Recommendations.
The work of the Bureau arid the 
alumni organization was increasing 
rapidly, due to increased expansion 
and activities. In order to place the 
executive affairs of the Federation 
on a more stable and independent 
basis an Executive Secretary with at 
least one assistant was recommended. 
"Buddy1 Overend was chosen to fill 
this position.
As secretary to Mr. Overend the 
Board selected Miss Ruth Andrews, 
formerly connected with the Bureau 
of Recommendations. Our self-sup
porting alumni organization has been 
functioning now for a year and a half, 
having its office in Room 206, Gymna-- 
sium Building.
The Alumni Office carries as its 
work cooperation with all school 
activities in which the alumni is in
terested. If takes care of the collec
tion of alumni dues, by which the 
office is supported, for all four organi
zations, the raising of money from 
among the alumni for the Endowment 
Fund; the presenting of school prob
lems and activities to tho alumni 
through the medium of the Carnegie 
Alumnusthe official alumni publica
tionand tho alumni page of tho 
Carnegie,j,Tartan; the awarding, of 
scholarships by the collogo associa
tions and other matters of intoresr. 
to the alumni as they come up from 
time to time. Another duty which 
comes under the control of the Fed
eration is the organization and con
trol of Carnegie dims in cities where 
there' are ten or more Carnegie 
alumni residing. At the present time 
We have some thirty clans.
swell the total, but here are a few 
from some of the men who we all 
know.
One man whom you probably all 
know, especially those of you who 
used to cut classes on a fine spring 
afternoon, is Barney Dreyfuss. Mr. 
Dreyfuss made a contribution of $250, 
which with interest and the Corpor
ation's gift, will amount to $2,010.. 
Not sad, eh?
Then another man whom none of 
the Engineers have forgotten, and 
whom others known by hearsay, is 
Professor Geckeler, who handed over 
a crisp hundred dollar bill. This 
means a total of $804 for Carnegie 
growing out of this one gift.,
J. M. Selden did his-share with d 
donation of $28.80, which means $77 
in our pocket by 1946.
Then along came Fred Hartman, 
whom many of you may remember as 
Assistant to the President at Carnegie 
for a number of years, but who is, now 
witli the United Typothetae, and 
hands over a sum of $7,500. The in
terest from this is to be used in the 
promotion of the art of printing at 
Carnegie, but the principal will stand 
intact, so that with, the Corporations 
$15,000 In 1940, the total Tor the En 
dowment Fund will be $22,500. That 
helps. ,
One of our sororities also came 
across, and handed over $20; we refer 
to Beta Pi. This also helps, amount
ing to $ I (50.80 as a total. How about, 
the rest of you sororities and frater
nities?
Week after week gift's come in like 
this, and give assurance that the 
amount sot for a goal, $4,000,000, will 
be reached. But if you intend giving, 
dont put if off, for the interest accru
ing also amounts up, and means that 
much more for (lie school.
And dont forget Loyalty Bonds.
THE LATEST JOKE ON
THE NEW FORD
Have you heard the latest Ford 
joke?
The owner of a big Packard was 
driving along at a clip of 45 when n 
new Ford pulled up behind him.
"This will.never do, said the driver 
of the Packard, so lie pulled up to 55. 
Still the flivver stuck.
Well, I wont let any little Ford 
stick with me, he said, so he stepped 
on it till lie was going 65.
Still the Ford persisted in sticking 
right behind him. But as they were 
nearing^a town the owner of the Pack
ard decided that he would slow down 
as he had never cultivated a desire 
for tickets for speeding. The Ford 
pulled up alongside. him and a head 
was stuck .out of the window.
Say, do you know anything about 
these new Fords? Ive got it stuck in 
second and I cant get it out.Ex
change.
Would you like another Radio Night? 
If so, how soon?.......................................
Please fill in the above and mail to the Alumni Editor, Carnegie 
Tartan] We are making a survey to determine whether or not we 
should have another Radio Night.
ATTENTION! INDIANAPOLIS 
ALUMNI!
Addresses Wanted For The 
Directory Issue Of Alumnus
Just a word or two to remindThe Directory Issue of the Alumnus
* those who do not remember, and * j come out about the first of April, and:
* inform those who do not know. !? work has already been started in 
that Indianapolis would like to ?making up the list of alumni. This
The Proper Introduction of Young
Men to Industry is Big Need Today
J* form a clan. Of course, those
* who were present at the radio *
* party, know about it, but those * 
i* who were not, .should-get in. touch
I* with P. J. Unizicker, at 839-95 ?:* 
*} Massachusetts avenue, and get *>
* the dope. *
* So if you live in or around *
* Indianapolis, you want to get *
?J* affiliated with this group of Car- *1* 
J* negne alumni. Good luck, Indi- * 
3* anapolis. *
* * * * * *
The following article was written by 
Mr. C. H. Murray of the American 
Rolling Mill Company, where he is su
pervisor of employment. It dwells 
upon the subject of introducing young 
men to the.industry in which they are 
about to become engaged, and we 
have felt that it miglU. be of interest 
to our alumni: \
The "introduction idea is far from 
new. It originated back in the ages 
somewhere when men fought with 
spears and swords, long before Colum
bus embarked upon his epochal trip 
across the Atlantic, when these social 
customs of ours were in the primary 
stage. ! And the proper introduction 
of a young man to the industry with 
which he is affiliated, is, in a way sim
ply the carrying out of social etiquet. 
To illustrate suppose that you attend
ed a pa<rty, the guests being entirely 
strange to you, and your h0.4t would 
lead you to a chair without introduc
ing you around. Would you enjoy 
yourself? Would you make prog
ress in the social life of the evening? 
Probably not, for there would be that 
feeling of restraint that is .borne by 
these social customs of ours which 
govern our actions to a certain extent, 
and no doubt you would deserve the 
well-known cognomen of "wall flower" 
before the evening were over.
Fifty years ago, there was little 
need for any application of the intro
duction idea, for shops were small; 
everyone knew the boss, and all 
phases of the business for it was right 
before him, and he was well acquaint
ed with his fellow employes who were 
his neighbors dnd friends in most in
stances.
Today, conditions have so changed 
that in the large industries men can
not wander promiscuously about from 
department to department over the 
plant, but are admonished to stay 
close to the particular territory - in 
which they are employed. The rqfjult 
is a great many wall flowers, men 
who would like to learn more about 
their business on the ground but 
have not been afforded tlie opportu
nity.
While we do not look upon the introdur.tory group plan as a panacea 
for all ailments, REV do believe that 
every young man should have the op
portunity to get acquainted with the 
fundamentals of the various phases 
of business, and in order to be most 
effective, it should start as soon after 
he is employed as possible. Though 
this plhn does not entirely eliminate 
the wall flower in business, due to 
the human element, it has been in ef
fect' for several years in our plants 
and has worked very satisfactorily.
We worked'out a definite plan which 
resulted in the organization of our 
first introductory group. These 
were new men, ambitious and interest
ed in getting aheadmen, who were 
willing to get together oil their own 
time in the evening at least once a 
week for aWout three months. These 
men are given an opportunity to be
come acquainted with the heads of our 
departments and most of the other im
portant members of our organization, 
as well as every phase of the business. 
This also represents an opportunity 
tor them to become acquainted with 
the policies of our company.
Instructions begin in the open 
hearth department, which is the first 
step in the numufacture of all Armc|)
HOME CONCERT TICKETS
Mr. Wilbur Scott.
Box 183, CArnegie Tech,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Enclosed please find $............................ for which send me............
tickets for the Annual Home Concert at Carnegie Music Hall, March 
23, 1928.
( ) Orchestra ......................$1.25
( ) Balcony .................................. .^5
( ) Second Balcony.................50
Name
Address.
products. A man familiar with open 
hearth operations is in charge. After 
the observation trip is completed, 
which requires about an hours time, 
the superintendent of the department 
gives a talk on the activities of his de
partment, including the technical, gen
eral operating and personnel prob
lems.
Similar trips are taken through all 
of the major operating, departments 
of the plant, with the superintendent 
of each department talking and be
coming acquainted with the new men 
coming into the organization. As a 
result these men get to know the su
perintendents and are made to feel 
free to go to them for additional infor
mation.
' After all the divisions and depart
ments have been visited, and talks 
have been heard by the men responsi
ble for the 'entire organization, the 
members of the groups can make an 
intelligent decision as to whether 
they are interested in the steel busi
ness and if so what particular part ap
peals to them most.
An attempt is made to have been 
of the same type organized into the 
same groups. They get acquainted 
and make friends with other young 
men coming into our organization at 
the same time. In this way they 
make new friends among those who 
liar similar interests.
These meetings are in charge of a 
member of the employment depart
ment. Each man lias, an opportunity 
to discuss with him any question that 
may arise.
By the end of these meetings the 
employment department knows wheth
er we want the men in our permanent 
organization and if so, where to place 
them to best advantage.
Young men are usually assigned to 
some manual labor which very often 
represents quite a decided change, 
particularly to those men who are 
just out of school. These meetings 
give them an opportunity to know 
something about some of the more in
teresting work in the organization, al
most immediately after they begin
issue contains the names, listed ac
cording to classes, of all the alumni 
on record, together with their latest 
known address.
Recently we published a list or 
names nearly a column long, con
taining those whose address was.- 
either unknown or known to be in. 
error. Up to the present time there: 
have been received only about three 
or four correct addresses. In order 
to make the Directory as complete as 
possible we should like to know all 
the latest addresses of those whose 
names were in this list. Look back 
and see if yours was among them. If 
you have lost or thrown away that 
Tartan, then try to think back wheth
er or not you ever sent in yourchanged address. If you didnt, send 
in your present address, ust to makosure.
Due to the difficulties of setting upthe type for the Directory, all copymust be in by March 14, so get in. 
touch with Miss Andrews before thattime.
work, and to get acquainted with the 
kind of men who have made progress 
with us.
A program of this kind has decided 
advantages over that of assigning a 
man.to a job, without permitting him. 
to get acquainted with other depart
ments. These introductory meetings, 
familiarize all promising young men 
with our policies, products, distribu
tion and personnel, thus they become 
more valuable to us as well as to 
themselves.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
AN ADDITION TO' CAMEL SMOKE-LORE
N
GS TUFHIY the sad case of tlie freshman in zoology, who, when asked to 
describe a came!, said, A camel is what you wish, you were smoking while 
you try to think of the right answers. He flunked zoologybut he knew his 
cigarettes. For in time of trial or time of joy, theres no friend like Camels.
The subtle influences of choice tobaccos upon the smoke-spots of mankind 
have been carefully studied, identified, and blended smoothly into Camels 
the finest of cigarettes. And ivell bet an alkaflitch on this: Camels have 
just, the taste and aroma to pack your smoke-spot with the iifill-fullment>* 
every experienced smoker seeks. Got an alkaflitch you wayt to lose?
- ^ . T . REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY w:ctnn.c *T
CHUBBYHector Casts About for a New RoommateBy FRANK REILLY
Mans Inferiority
At mans birth his mother is the | 
important character; at his marriage 1 
the bride is; at his death the widow. 
San Frascisco Chronicle. -
r
voo wikovkj -ueci
t HWE COAAG. To 
QliAUT.lL lYl B.AUT> 
AAvjiHC. - UAL.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THRE
LOST. STRAYED OR STOLEN
Puppet's Kardex Rand Filing 
Case of Advertisers disappeared 
from the office, Room 12, Indus
tries Building, last Thursday aft
ernoon. Will the tinder please 
return it to the office?
GIRLS' GLEE-CLUB TO SING 
AT OAKLAND M.E. CHURCH
Kappa Phi Sponsors Entertainment 
to be Given Tuesday Evening 
March 13th
The Womens Glee Club will give a 
concert at the Oakland Methodist 
Episcopal Church on next Tuesday 
evening, March 13. The entertain
ment is, to be held under the auspices 
of Kappa Phi. an organization of 
Methodist Episcopal students from 
Pitt, Carnegie and the Pennsylvania 
College for Women. The program of 
this, concert which will mark the last 
appearance of the Girls Glee Club be
fore the home concert, promises to be 
well worth while. The entertainment 
will begin at 8:15 o'clock. The price 
or the-tickets will be fifty cents each. 
Students who attended the similar 
concert giveii last year by the Wom
ens Glee Club at the Emory Metho
dist Episcopal Church will vouch for 
the quality of the performance.
Among other'activities in which the 
Glee Club recently participated, was 
the concert held last Thursday even
ing at the United States Veterans 
Hospital at Aspinwall. The girls sang 
nine selections, the last number of 
which was Dear, Old Tech, favored 
most by the veterans. Thirty-five
girls and their director, Alfred H.
Johnson, drove to Aspinwall in a bus 
which was sent to the Art Scliopl by
the Veterans Hospital. After an
hour of singing which was enjoyed by 
the veterans, the hospital bus convey
ed the girls back to the Carnegie cam
pus.
!j All other fuels must be !ifi '(M.,
I ; |y converted into gas before | if'if 
I ip they will bum. Gas, alone, is | r|()! |Ij (I1 the perfect industrial fuelthe tir Hill 1lj I' only fuel that comes to you fully pre- '  ijjfl | rII pared, that offers ready-to-use energy. j ' I i ,
ji| Gas is the energy content of coal, con- j'i |I jjij centrated, and placed on tap at your j i I
III burner. Gas is easily controlled, per- | j I fectly flexible, readily adapted to widely
. different heat treating operations. Waste |, |j i I , is minimized. Greater ultimate profit j | I ||j is assured. Vj 1
I B Investigate the possible uses of gas and j J 1 jl
III11 gas l)urnin^ appliances in your plant. II j!, j111 'ili Write today to your own gas j I II
1 j I, comPanyorto . ili (I
'I, ili American Gas Association ,\jl J ' j I1
 )' if)-, 420 Lexington Avenue dil'liill iii '1 if I jl j j New York City (lill( 
BETTEE WITH GAS
Giovanni M.artinelle, Metropolitan 
'Opera tenor, appeared last night in 
the Young Mens and Womens He
brew Association. This marked the 
final event in the major artists con
cert series being held under the aus
pices of that organization.
Lawrence, Kans.-(IP)Thirty-one 
pledges at the University of Kansas 
were detained by .police when they 
werie'engaged in carrying out "the du
ties of fraternity Hell Week recently. 
The 'student council of the university 
filed a protest with the police depart
ment for the arrests.
Her Choice
A Florence girl says she bad rather 
wear a cow bell Ilian bo bothered with 
a chaperon.Boston Eagle.
Bon Voyage
A little bit goes a long wftfl,w said 
the keeper feeding h handful of hay 
( to a giraffe.Cornell Widow.
Weve Seen What Weve Seen
It's a long road that has no turnturtlftig," remarks an exchange. Or 
''tje-dovlng. vPATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
ETT2
SS,PBODIM, TD
They tell me youll endorse any cigarette for a consideration
Second Star"Sure, so long as the consideration isnt that I give up my Chesterfields!
THEY'&i MILD
and ytt THEY SATISFY
01938. LIGCITT H MY?IS TOBACCO CO.
Music NotesRogers And Brown To 
Head Ninth C. W. Show
By SARA E. WONDERS
March 5.
The piano class of Lealr-Davis, rep'resenting the Elizabeth branch of 
1ittsbiirgh Musical Institute, assisted j 
"by Helen Hotham, reader, will give a 1 
"recital in the Methodist Episcopal ! 
Church of Elizabeth, Pa., Monday*! 
-evening. March 5, at S: 15 p. m. Dali-; 
meyer Russell, one of the- Institute I 
directors, will be in charge of the re- j 
ital.
March 6.
Phidelah Rice, the -celebrated mon- j 
actor, will present the Artist Program | 
of the P. M. I. Club Tuesday evening, j 
"March 6, at S:30-p. m. Mr. Rice is j 
noted for his presentation of entire ! 
Tdays and will be remembered for hia j 
delightful readings when ne aupeared j 
three years ago at Carnegie Lecture j 
Hall on the Pittsburgh Musical Re- j 
oital Series.
March 7.
All Carnegie Students Eligible 
For Roles in Play Regard
less of College
Ferdinand Fillioh, assisted by Mrs. 
Lawrence Litchfield and other mem
bers of the .studios will give an even
ing of chamber music at Carnegie 
Lecture Hall, March 7. The program 
~will include a quintet by Elgar, which 
Will be the first performance of this 
"work in Pittsburgh.
March 9-10.
The New York Philharmonic con
sisting of 110 players, Toscanini con
ducting, will be heard Friday and 
Saturday, March 9-10, at the Syria 
Mosque. This will be the closing pair 
of concerts in the Pittsburgh Orches
tra Association series.
The Friday night program will fea
ture Beethovens Pastoral Symphony 
-No. 6: and the Saturday matinee, 
Haydns Symphony in G major, No. 
13. Other works 011 the evening pro
gram include Overture to The Bar
ber of Seville, Honeggers Pastor
ale dete*and Pacific 231,* Debussys 
La Mer.' In addition to the sym
phony, the matinee includes Ravels 
Dapliis and Cliloe (suite No. 2); 
The Blessed Realm by Tomassini; 
and symphonic poem, Juventus by 
De Sabata.
March 29.
Frank Cutlibert, New York basso, 
formerly of Pittsburgh, is to take the 
leading solo part in the Passiontide 
orat.oriq. The Son of Man, to be 
given by the Pittsburgh Polyphonic 
'Choir in Carnegie Music Hall, Thurs
day evening, March 29.
By JOE B. PATTERSON
Syria Mosque was filled to capacity 
last Sunday night, when the Pitts"burgh Symphony Society presented 
its orchestra of Pittsburgh musicians 
in the first of its S'unday night con
certs this season. Richard I-Iageman 
was the guest conductor and Marjory 
Maxwell, soprano, the soloist. The 
invocation was by Rev. Carl August 
Voss.
The orchestra, in general, showed 
remarkable cohesion and co-operation. 
These local musicians, many of whom 
are conductors of theater and res
taurant. orchestras, subordinated their 
personal glory for the benefit of a 
unit. Twenty-two of the musiiians 
represented are present or . former 
students of Carnegie, and seven mem
bers of 'the faculty took part in the 
program. Much of the credit of the 
concert is due to Elias Breeslcin, as
sociate conductor and concertmaster.
The symphony last night was 
Tscliaikowskys No. 4 in F Minor. 
The fine tone of each division was 
brought out, as well as the capacity 
of the full orchestra. The tone of the 
strings especially was. pure and warm 
in the Andantino movement. . The 
Scherzo, with its pizzicato novel
ties, was, loudly applauded.
Miss Maxwell sang several numbers 
with orchestra background. Her 
range. is wide and her tones pure.
Last. Sunday night the Department 
of Music presented a recital, with stu
dents of the department participating, 
in the Little Theater of the Arts 
"School at 8:15. The program was
Re-discovers 
His Favorite 
Tobacco
Charleston, W. Va., March 4, 1927
Laras & Bro: Co.,Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:Recently 1 stopped in a little village that consisted of about nine houses and a small hotel, which I entered.A little old man wearing a skull cap was seated in a rocking-chair smoking 
an enormous pipe. I had come to buy - a can of Edgeworth, but when I caught a whiff of the tobacco he was smoking I changed my mind. The aroma of that tobacco was so delightful that I made up my mind right then and there that I wanted some of the same brand, 
regardless of the cost.I began with: I beg your pardon, sir, but I came in to buy a can of tobacco, and I would like the same brand you are smoking if you dont mind telling me. He looked at me for a moment, grasped his pipe with one hand and said: Im smoking Edgeworth. Would you like some?Of course I did, and I secured a supply from the old fellow. The joke, 
of course, was on me, but I went on my way rejoicing.Yours very truly,
Dr. John R. Koch
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Walter Browne Rodgers and A1 
Brown have been appointed to act asproducer and business manager re
spectively of the ninth Campus Week 
Show. They, are already busy looking 
over the various theaters available 
and arranging the sub-committees.
Rodgers, who is a Senior in the de
partment of Drama and a member of 
Beta Theta Pi, has been connected 
with the Campus Week productions 
for several years, being chairman of 
the Vaudeville Show and assisting in 
the staging of Sam Janneys success, 
The Desperate Woman in 192G, and 
last year producing The Devils Den. 
In view of the successes of these pro
ductions a show even more success
ful,-if possible, should-be forthcoming. 
A1 Brown, Senior in Works Manage
ment and a member of Alpha Tau 
Omega fraternity, served as the Stu
dent Council financial advisor 011 the | 
business staff / of last years show, j 
and in that capacity proved very ca-1 
pable. The combination of producer I 
and manager should assure a very j 
successful Campus Week Show.
The Technical staff and the com
mittees are being organized, and their 
work will begin in the near future. 
No play has as yet been chosen, but 
it iyill probably be a comedy farce. 
.Mr. Rodgers, states that as soon as 
the play is chosen, preliminary read
ings will begin and that proper an-1 
nouncements of these sessions will 
be given in the Tartan. He desires 
that all students, regardless of the 
school in which they are enrolled, 
who have any desire to play in the 
Campus Week production, attend 
these readings as the cast will be 
chosen regardless of college.
In making inquiries for a theater, 
it was found that several of the down
town houses will not be available durj ing Campus Week, so it is possible 
I that the show will not be presented 
j in a downtown house. Realizing that 
| a downtown play, house-is in many 
i ways superior, the managers are tryj ing to make a contract with that in 
j mind.
! As has been the custom in previous I 
I years the regular performance of the  
j show for the general student body ; 
i will probably be given on the Satur-1 
j day evening of Campus Week, with 
an afternoon showing on the same day ! 
j for others unable to attend the eveiii ing, ^erfqrmaijce. j
j varied and well executed. The pro-.
; gram was as follows.
[ 1. Bach.Prelude and Fugue in G Major :
Brahms .............................................
Andante from Sonata in F Minor | 
Mary Taylor
2. Romberg.Cello Concert, No. 2 
Andante Grazioso
Allegro Maestoso
Grace Bazell
3. Wieniakski .....................................
.....Violin Concerto in D Minor 
Allegro Moderato 
Romance /
David Fisher
4. Bizet..... .Seguidille from Carmen |
Virginia Clovis
5. Chopin-Kreisler
. ...................Mazurka in A Minor
Dvorak-Kreisler ............................
..Slavonic Dances, Nos. 1 and 2 
Katherine Riclcart
6. Chopin........Nocturne, Op. 9, No. 3
Chopin. .. .Polonaise, Op. 26, No. 2
Marion Hall 
j 7. Bach... Concerto for two violins  
with piano' and string accompan
iment.
VivaceLargoAllegro 
William Sagei' and David Fisher, 
solo violins; Antoinette Reina, piano; 
John Brletic, viola; Virginia Brookliart, first violin; Grace Bazell, cello; 
Madeline Ferguson, second violin; 
Harold Yeager, base; accompanists, [ 
Lucille Burrell, Charles Shotts.
The Carnegie Glee Club journeyed 
last Thursday night to Tarentum, Pa., 
where they presented a concert in the/ 
First M. E. Church. The Glee -Club 
was well received and much praise 
was given to the Club for its fine pro
gram. The Club was under the capa
ble direction of student director, Wal
ter John Poyntz. Manager Wilbur A. 
Scott is working hard for the suc
cess of future concerts. The soloists 
of the trip were Joseph Browne Pat
terson and Paul Brautigam. William 
D. McDermott also gave a chalk talk.
The Fillion Violin Studios presented 
Miss Marion Engle in a piano recital 
last Friday night in the Carnegie Lec
ture Hall at 8:15: She presented a
very fine program which was enjoyed 
very much. The program was as fol
lows:
Sonata No. 12, A Major..............Mozart
Sonata Opus 27, No. 1___Beethoven
Etude Opus 10, No. 6................Chopin
Etude Opus 25, No. 2,_______Chopin
Berceuse Opus 57.....................Chopin
La engloutie Catliedrale.... .Debussy
Jardins sous la Pluie............Debussy
Reflets dans leau....................Debussy
Naiads at the Spring...................Juon
Legende ...................................... Liszt
Mate Culic Dragun appeared in a 
concert for the first time in Pitts
burgh, at th^ Carnegie Music Hall 
last Friday night. The event marked 
the fifth Bortz concert. Several as
sisting artists also appeared on the 
program.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1928
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that in distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired or merely Calces, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes  PastriesIce Creams 
IcesBread and Candles ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
~rn
CATERERS
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Roy.il Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new shadowweight felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with harrow band in pearl and light 
Ian.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUE Established .1872
No Minimum Balance Requirement 
NO SERVICE CHARGE
If V I S I o N>|
C. PROGRESS P
ATS6EIVS1
Uy CHARACTER f
9SYRIPI8K is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
KAU THAN N 91
PITTSBURGHFIFTH AVENUE
JAMES HUGHES TO HEAD ; 
NEW INDUSTRIES SMOKERThe Bagpipe
The Industries smoker this year 
will present a unique feature in that 
it is really a function of both the In
dustries and Science schools. Due to 
the discontinuation of the Science 
tag, the committee has laid plans 
which will make this Industries func
tion more'than recompense the death 
of Its follow event, the Science stag. 
The usual air of informality and aban
don, together with a varied program 
of lively entertainment will be the out
standing attraction of this very popu
lar campus event.
James Hughes, Theta Xi, is the new 
chairman of the smoker and to date 
many of the plans and novelties are 
being kept a secret. The date will 
very likely Tall near the end of the 
present month- and within a week the 
final arrangements will be made and 
tickaro will appear upon the campus. 
All who attend are promised the best 
oT good times and the committee is 
assured that the Industries smoker 
will continue its popularity and that 
there is little danger of its going the 
way of Carnegie's traditions.
TECH
Barber Shop
Complete service for Ladies 
and Gentlemen.
4531 Forbes Street 
Near Craig
Mayflower 2838
I Henrietta Acciplter, Junior in SciI ence, M. M. C; C.: Margaret Morri
son has so little social life that it can 
call its own so that doing away with 
the Womens Junior Prom would 
mean doing away with the little so
cial life that now exists. Although 
the proms might be combined in 
name, the fun of planning for the 
combined Prom would not be includ
ed as usual."
Roy Diet/,, Junior in Music In Arts 
School: I believe that the Men's
Junior Prom and the Womens Junior 
Prom should be held together for 
many reasons among which the out
standing one is the reduction in the 
prices of the Prom. However there 
would be only one of everything. A 
better orchestra could be had if pos
sible.
S. Holverstatt, Sophomore in Indus
tries: "The idea of having a Womens 
Junior Prom and then a Mens Junior 
Prom is the bunk. Most girls in 
school that are attractive receive 
plenty of invitations and do not find 
it necessary to throw a party of their 
own in order tcf attend a Junior Prom. 
As for the men, they are willing to 
pay for a good date and do not want 
a boring one even though it is free."
J. 13. Patterson, Sophomore in Mu
sic In Arts School: "The way I see
it the idea of combining the Mens 
Junior Prom and'the Womens Junior 
Prom would be very f good. There 
would be more money and it could be 
made a more elaborate affair. There 
would be only one orchestra to be 
hired and in this way a better one 
could be secured. There also Avould 
be a better crowd."
D. H. Barr, Junior in Civil Engineer
ing: "I think that the Mens and
Womens Junior Prom should be 
combined because every girl is as
sessed a certain amount whether she 
goes or not. This seems to be impos
ing. 011 the girls as some do not care 
to attend. In order to make this a 
big event of the year on the campus 
the two ought to be combined.
Public Utilities of Vicinity Inspected by 
Faculty Members of Pittsburgh Colleges
Another of the faculty i inspection 
trips being conducted by, industrial 
corporations in the Pittsburgh district
tion of the mineral 
perfect methods of measuring the 
amount of product mined. The tecliNATIONAL HONORARY
FRATERNITIES WILL
MAKE CALLS TODAYISCABBARD AND BLADE 
PLANS ALUMNI CHAPTER
was held on Saturday, February 25., nologist and the chemist have had to 
for . representatives from Pitt, Du-j do witli the elimination of losses, 
ciuesne, P. C. W. and Mellon Institute, j with the development of processes for 
The Itinerary of the inspection con-j the refining of, natural gas in the re
sisted of a luncheon at Webster Hall. ( moval of sand, gravel, water, gasoline, 
which began at 12:15 p. m.; a ride to j and hydrogen sulphide, and with the 
the McKeesport Compressing Station j application of gas to the manifold inof the Peoples Natural Gas Company, ! dustrial and domestic requirements
(Continued From Page One.) 
and third, to i humorous manner by three plebes 
from the Art School. Charles Laughlin-, from the Music Department, will 
give a xylophone solo and it will not 
be his first appearance before Car
negie audiences, for he has played the 
xylophone and piano on several other 
occasions. He will also furnish the
Every student who is not entirely 
satisfied with the fineness, stiffness 
or Ink fiow of his fountain pen should 
at earliest opportunity go to the 
Jenkins Arcade anfl have the Singer 
~ j & Gift Shop "fit his hand, at 
moderate charge. Please say The 
Carnegie Tartan.'
Schenley 1125
Standard CleaningDyeing Co., Inc.
Standard Service Satisfies. 
EXPERTS ON LADIES 
GARMENTS 
Office and Cleaning Plant: I
702 REBECCA AVENUE a
WILKINSBURG
Branch Office 
4525 FORBES STREET I
OAKLAND J
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
i uur iiurnv uuuY
Fifth and Oakland Pittsburgh
R. .K. Mellon, President
W. S. Phillips, Oaslriev 
Thomas II. MeCandless, Assistant Cashier
Capital, $300,000.00 Surplus, $300,000.00
a modern construction containing 
four compressors ,of 475 II. P. each, 
and a gasoline plant of the charcoal 
process; and the examination of the 
plant. At the luncheon James B. Gar
ner, Ph. D., Director of Chemical and 
Engineering Research of gas, oil and 
coal, spoke upon public utilities.
Several tours of this nature have 
been made this year. These were ac
companied by speeches of general 
educational interest and of specific 
technical detail. The tours have been 
an indirect method of promoting good 
will development among the various 
industries and the institutions inter
ested in the economic, industrial, his
torical or engineering phases of busi
ness and the industrial professions.
In his speech Dr. Garner said, 
"Public utilities are always respon
sive to the demands of progress in 
social, .civic, and economic affairs. 
They are purveyors of commodities 
which are necessary, or conducive 
either to, the health, welfare; con- i 
venience, or happiness of the public. 
The commodities purveyed are: wa
ter, gas, electricity, telephone and 
transportation service. The well-beIng of a community is largely re
flected in the quality of the service of 
its public utilities. Our civilization is 
so interwoven with their continuity 
of service that hardship and suffering 
are entailed when any one public 
utility fails to perform. The require
ments- of a progressive citizenship 
have occasioned the existence of 
them. No intelligent citizen can fail 
to have interest in the welfare of tlie 
public utility and it is equally true 
that alj utilities must court public in
terest and guidance in their affairs. 
The interests of the utility and the 
citizenship are identical. The time 
has long since passed when there is 
one law for the citizen and another 
for the corporation. Colleges and 
universities of our country have 
played a great part in bringing in the 
new era. Men of the class room and 
laboratory, by their idealism and al
truism, are, and have been, molding 
the minds -of men to think fairly and 
accurately. The public utilities so
licit the continued co-operation, of the 
college and. university men."
Interesting, it is indeed, to know 
that, "the natural gas industry had its 
beginning, as a purveyor of light, in 
Taylors Inn, Fredonia, New York, in 
182*1. General Lafayette was the na
tions honored guest at this time and 
as a. mark of respect to him Taylors 
Inn was lighted with gak that came 
from the ground.] The first use of 
natural gas as a domestic fuel' was 
in 18(15 at Fredonia. The Fredonia 
Gas, Light and Water Works Com
pany was, organized in this year. As 
an industrial fuel, natural gas was 
first used In the steel and iron indus
try nt Leechburg, Armstrong county, 
In 1874. A roport  of, the Pennsylva
nia Geological. Survey of 1885 con
tains this statement: 'There were no 
loss than 1,500 dwellings, GG glass fac
tories, 34 rolling mills and 45 indus
trial establishments supplied with 
natura| gas in fhe city of Pittsburgh 
alone. The industry lias scarcely 
been out of its swaddling clothes for 
50 yejjrs, yet tremendous strides have 
been made in the growth, develop
ment, and organization of tills indus
try.
Dr. Garner* states that although 
the natural gas industry is fundamen
tally and essentially a great mining 
industry, and not a great manufactur
ing enterprise," that natural gas is 
"the only mineral which must be j 
marketed under public utility regula
tions.
In stating that the industry of min
ing natural gas is opportunous for ad
vancement . to the technical man, Dr. 
Garner adds, "The,.natural gas indus
try, like many of tile other great en
terprises of the business world, has 
utilized from the beginning, the serv
ices of scientists, engineers, teclmollsts, and economists. There has 
been in this industry, a wide open 
door of opportunity for the trained, as 
well as the, practical man. Not only 
must requirements of the present 
have adequate and accurate attention, 
but the interests of the future must 
be clearly foreseen and working plans 
formulated to meet these as they 
arise. Science, engineering, and tech
nology have played their part in the 
past of this industry and will of ne
cessity, have a greater part in the 
future of it. The geologist has had 
to do with the location of the deposits 
of natural gas in the earths strata. 
The Physicist and engineer have had, 
first, to devise the machinery for the 
mining operations; Second, to solve 
the problems of high pressure trans
portation. and low pressure distribu
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
fevenings. Advanced, Thursday and I j Saturday Evenings. Private lessons j (by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
for the which there are, at the pres
ent time, no equally satisfactory, or 
as economical substitutes. The en
gineer has to do with the location of 
pipe lines, compressing and meter 
stations, telephone and telegraph 
lines, distributing systems, and regu
lating stations, so as to assure the 
public of a quick, dependable, and 
continuous supply. They also func
tion in that they help to deliver the 
supply of mineral as consumers de
mand it. The executives of,the in
dustry are all thoroughly trained 
men. They are progressive, enter
prising, and open to constructive sug
gestion and advice.
piano music for the skit presented by
At a meeting of the Scabbard and 
Blade, national honorary military fra
ternity, held last Tuesday evening, 
February 28, in the office of the mili
tary department, it was proposed to 
hold a smoker to bring the alumni to
gether. The local chapter is making 
every effort to establish an alumni 
chapter of this organization at Pitts
burgh. This practice has been adopt
ed in many of the leading cities in the
Clayton Thompson and Leo Daschbach ! country where Scabbard and Blade
chapters are to be found and it is only 
fitting that Pittsburgh should have 
such an organization.. E. M. Stitt, C. 
W. Brooks' and A. W. Sikes, who com
pose the com'mittee for the smoker, 
are lending their earnest efforts in an 
attempt to accomplish this end. Plans 
for another smoker were also propos
ed at this meeting.
of Drama. They too are familiar 
plebes to Carnegie students and they 
have prepared a very humorous com
bination of wit and dancing that is 
sure to be enjoyed. The subjects of 
the "wise-cracks which they shall 
give are matters and conditions pe
culiar to Carnegie only, and it prom
ises to uncover som amusing facts.
Everyone is urged to make the at
tendance a large one, since attractions 
of such importance will be on the pro
gram, such as the honorary calls 
which is a rare event.
STUDENT COUNCIL APPROVES
NAME OF NEW MAGAZINE
(Continued From Page One.) 
that the Council approve the name 
of the "Carnegie Quarterly" for the 
new magazine and that it give its 
permission for the issuance of a first 
edition, to be financed through the 
financial patronage of interested 
people.
Several matters connected with 
Campus Week came up, chief of 
which was the setting of the date 
for the week-end of May 4. A list of 
Chairmen for the various sub- com
mittees were presented and approved. 
Lists of complimentary tickets for the 
Gambol of the Guilds and for the 
Women's Senior Ball were also ap
proved.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
A Friendly Bank
Each individual customer 
of the Mellon National Bank 
is assured of a sincere inter
est in his financial affairs and 
a desire to help him with his 
problems.
Especially is this true of 
young men and women who 
open accounts here. Come in 
and let us show you how to 
take the fullest advantage of 
the opportunities offered by 
a banking connection with 
us.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbug^h, Pa.
GLEE CLUBS TO PRESENT
HOME CONCERT MARCH 23
.Continued From Page One.) 
put on sale immediately. They may * 
be secured from Mr. Scott, or through 
any member of the two clubs. Th 
prices are as follows: First flooi11.25, first balcony 75c and second bal
cony 50c. Any one wishing tickets by 
mail may secure thm by using the 
-order blank appearing on the Alumni 
page of this issue.
OAKLANDS 
RESTAURANT 
for 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
DASCHBACHS
3808-10 Forbes Street
CAMPUS WEEK DATES
DECIDED BY COUNCIL
(Continued From Page One.) 
Theta Tau, and a member of the This
tle 'Staff. McClure, in charge of the 
Vaudeville show, is a Senior in the 
Drama Department. Campbell, High, 
Wright and Hamilton have all been 
active on the campus, as have Mark 
Seibert McNair and Austraw. Eta 
Kappa Nu has always been in charge 
of the C. W. electrical work.
Salt of the Earth
The entire evaporation of th< 
world's oceans would leave a layer o; 
nit 2<r. feet, fhlck.
Telephony, too, has 
its big game hunting
f ANY a man in Bell telephone work
Relentless hum 
in gfound hovj to
sale platinum 
here.
Mi.
feels the thrill of the Marco Polo 
hunt big game too,, because he may be 
trailing down the solution of a problem 
meaning greater convenience and conser
vation of time to millions of people.
Perhaps it is how to reduce the amount 
of precious metal required in the contact 
points on telephone transmitter springs.
Or it may involve some far-reaching 
question of management, the supervision 
of men and women, the need for a 
particular apparatus, the direction in 
which plant and personnel are to go to 
be ready for the needs of a coming 
generation.
The business of telephony is a con
tinual hunt for the better way.
BELL SYSTEM
\Atuition-wide system of 18,500,000 inter-connecting telephones

---------------------------------------------------

rut- E29YW5V
HAnr>p^1irl... intbfHCUMfi <Tb
NORMANDEAU COMPLETES 
NEW MAGAZINE STAFF
TARTAN TO GIVE THEATER 
PARTY FOR STAFF WED.
HAWTHORNE' PAINTING 
SECURED BY INSTITUTEBoulder and Ledge 
BlastingThe Tartan Staff will be enter
tained at a theater party Wednesday 
evening, March 7, at the Manor. 
Theater. Members of the staff will 
assemble at the Delta Upsilon House 
on Forbes street and go in a body to 
the Manor. After the theater the 
group will meet at the same fraternity 
house for luncheon. The Tartan Staff 
has been most successful this year 
due to the splendid cooperation of the 
reporters with the editor and officiat
ing members. The new poiicy of the 
Tartan embracing an eight page is
sue and small sifce of paper has been 
favorably commented on both on and 
off campus. This policy has been 
made possible, only through the 
efficient efforts of the business staff 
and the excellent organization o-f the 
editorial staff. In this way the chief 
executives are able to manifest their 
sincere appreciation for the loyalty, 
constancy, and cooperation of the en
tire staff. In former years an annual 
meeting was usually held to arouse 
the reporters and induce them to be 
more efficient in their work. Since 
this stimulation ha3 not been neces
sary this year it is hoped that this 
system of successful cooperation will 
continue.
Will be Added to Permanent Col
lection and Put on Exhibitiona
March 7th
At the meeting held last Wednes
day, February 29, in Room 101 of Arts 
School at 4:30, for those interested 
in the new literary magazine, a fourth 
associate editor, representative of In
dustries was selected. This com
pletes the immediate editorial staff, 
which includes these people: Editorin-Chief, Walter Browne Rogers, 5549 
Forbes street, Schenley 1490; Manag
ing Editor, Abe Frank, 1512 Vickroy 
street, Mayflower 1267; Associate 
Editor (Arts), Harold Jacobson, Scobell Hall, Schenley 9469; Associate 
Editor (Margaret Morrison), Margaret 
Russell, 5136 Woodlawn avenue, May
flower 9814; Associate Editor (En
gineering), Henry Bunker, Jr., 750 
Lenox avenue, Wilkinsburg, Braddock 
2660-J; and Associate Editor (Indus
tries), Elmer A. Normandeau, 209 
Henderson Hall, Schenley 9180.
Council has approved of the name 
of this magazine, which will exlBt as 
The Carnegie Quarterly. Appoint
ments have been made for securing 
material which will be used. The 
first issue will appear in April and 
will be about the size of the American 
Mercury and will contain sixty-four 
pages of material. There will be a 
verse section and sections for techni
cal articles, interest stories, criticisms 
of books and plays, book reviews and 
short stories. Anyone who wishes to 
submit material should do so to either 
Mr. Rogers or any of the associate 
e/litors before March 15, In order to 
insure the appearance of a number 
in April.
There is a chance offered to con
tribute private sums to the welfare of 
this magazine financially. Many or
ganizations on the campus and pri
vate individuals have already volun
teered pecuniary assistance to the 
magazine.
A regular meeting of those inter
ested will be held Wednesday after
noon at 4:30 in Arts in Room 101.
The building of a glider was 
brought up again and Mr. Aull drew 
same rough sketches of some practi
cal gliders. Glider Clubs have been 
formed all over the world and have 
had great success. Germany now 
holds the record by staying in the 
air 14 hours with a simple glider' If 
wo build a glider we will get a lot 
of practical experience In every phase 
of aviation. We dont expect to 
break a world's record or anybody's 
neck, but we would like a little help 
from members of the club.
The Department of Fine Arts of 
Carnegie Institute has acquired, 
through the Patrons Art Fund, the 
painting, Portrait of a Portuguese 
Gentleman," by Charles W^ Haw
thorne, which was shown in the last 
Carnegie International Exhibition. 
This picture will be added to the per
manent collection of the institute.
The "Portrait of a Portuguese Gen
tleman will be one of the paintings 
in an exhibition of Hawthornes works 
which will open in the second floor 
galleries of the institute on Wednes
day, March 7.
Hawthorne has exhibited in Car
negie internationals since 1904. In 
1908 he received an honorable men
tion in the thirteenth international. 
His painting, "The Captain, the Cook 
and the First Mate, was awarded 
third prize in the twenty-fourth inter
national in 1925.
Practically all the Important prizes 
offered in this country have been cap
tured by Hawthorne, including the, 
Temple gold medal at the National 
Academy of Design in 1915; the silver 
medal at the Panama Exposition, San 
Francisco, the same year; the Car
negie prize, National Academy of De
sign, in 1924, and the gold medal at 
the Sesqui-centennial Exhibition in 
1926.
Hawthorne was born in Maine in 
1872. He studied at the Art Students' 
League, at the National Academy of 
Design in New York and under Wil
liam M. Chase. He paints every sum
mer at Provincetown, Massachusetts, 
where he has a studio and school.
He is represented in many import
ant galleries, including the Metropol
itan Museum, the Corcoran Gallery of 
Washington, Worcester Museum, De
troit Institute of Art, City Art Mu
seum of Saint Louis, the Art Institute 
of Chicago and others.
PROPERLY PLACED BLOCK HOLE CHARGE
Lesson No. S of
BLASTERS HANDBOOK
Professor Pfouts gave us permis
sion to use his shop to build the glider 
providing we decide to build It. We 
surely appreciate this.
THE way of the road builder and contractor is often 
rocky. Submerged boulders and outcropping 
ledges of rock call a sudden halt in the job.
Whats the quickest way to blast these obstructions 
out of the wayblockholing? snakeholing? or mudcapping? Whats the best way to determine the size 
and position of a boulder? Whats the correct load 
and method of loading for each kind of rock?
These and many other questions fiot included in any 
engineering course will come up out on the job. 
Theyre only details, its true, but apt to be mighty 
annoying and troublesome details. Youll find the 
answers given and fully illustrated in the Blasters 
Handbooka practical field reference book as well 
as a standard text in many engineering classes.
You cun have a copy oj thi.t valuable textbook FREE 
unci without any obligation. t^00^ \\\ Hava's a coupon for your convcnicncc. Mail it NOW.
The editor of Air Pockots would 
like to have some news on aviation 
for our column in the Tartan. Send 
any news you may have to W. E. Bur
roughs, Box 23S, Carnegie Tech.
A very good course in building and 
constructing ships may be had in 
March. The course is given by Chief 
Instructor Robert Hancock of 
Rodger's Field. The price of the 
course is very reasonable, and any 
person taking this course can pass 
the Department of Commerce test for 
mechanic's licens/s.
CLTIfflES
Lieut. Bob Dake of the Pittsburgh 
Aero Club spoke at the last meeting. 
Bob answered a thousand and one 
questions on the fundamentals of avia
tion: The night watchman came up
and told us we would have to adjourn 
for the night. Dake spoke on gliders 
and advised us to write to a glider 
club for plans of a practical glider. 
The question of heavier and lighter 
than air craft for commercial use came 
up and he says heavier than air craft 
Is best. Walt till Henry Ford flies 
Ills forty passenger plane to Franco 
and back every week.
SHOWING AT 
WILLIAM PENN 
HOTEL 
Wednesday and 
Thursday 
March 14 and 15
RGO. U. 3. PAT. OFF.
E. I. du Pont de Nemours flo Co., Inc.,
Explosive Department, Wilmington, Delnwnre. 
Gentlemen:
Please send me  copy or your Blusters Handbook.
Representative
Name.
Mr. Gib CollinsAddress.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERSPuppet Represented At 
Meet Of College Comics
The meetings will be held the 
second and fourth Tuesdays of oacli 
month. Making the next meeting fall 
on Tuesday the 13tli. Mombers will 
receive their Wings and certificates 
of membership provided they have 
Pfiid their dues and Initiation feos.
on girls and show the old Carnegie 
spirit.
bocauso five yoars from now aviation 
will bo tho only thing, and we all 
want to bo of tho first to get In tho 
big money.
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECONDHAND 
CLOTHESThe Annual Convention of the
Association of College Comics of the 
East was held on February 25 and
26, 1928 at Atlantic City. Edwin B. 
Ross, advertising manager of the 
Puppet was the Carnegie Tech repreDid any body know that Tocli had 
an Aviation club about eight yoars 
ago? Well they did. Tho trouble 
then was aviation wasn't thought 
much of then, but slnco Llndy flow 
across tho pond, Intorost has grown 
by leaps and bounds. Do you know 
why? Why sure, wo all know why;
Nat LUXENBERG & Bro.
37 Union Square, New York 
^ Bet ten 16th & /7/A Sts.Palo Alto, Calif., Fob. 2G.(IP.) 
Tho 1928 annual of tho students of 
Stanford Unlvorslty 14 to bo dodlcatod 
to Herbert Hoover, aftor pormlsslon 
was granted by hlm. Hoover Is a 
Stanford graduato.
1534 Central Avenue
Capt. Voss Is tho next spoakor 011 
the list and wo oxpoct a largo at
tendance again. We did not soo any 
of our co-ods at tho mooting. ComeAt the meetings several comics 
were admitted as new members;'they 
are the Cornell  Widow, Georgia 
Cracker, "Rensealaor Pup, Buffalo 
Bison, and "Junior Reel. Most of 
the discussion at. the sessions hinged 
on advertising rates and policies.
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Fit ancl Style. All sizes.
Special rates to studentsFORBES DORM TO HOLD ST.
PATRICKS DANCE, FRI., MAR. 9
On Friday evening, March 9, three 
of the Forbes street dormitories Will 
hold, a St. Patricks day dance. The 
halls planning the dance are Elm Hall, 
Hawthorne Hall and Laurel Hall. It 
is in Laurel Hall that the dance will 
be held.
The girls and their committees are 
working very diligently to make the 
affair a. success. Winnie Reed is 
chairman of the dance and has as her 
committee chairmen Lucille Kelly, 
decorations, and Mary Hall for refreshnients. The decordtions will be 
symbolical of St. Patricks Day. A1 
Rolands orchestra will provide the 
music for the occasion.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
CLOTHES
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.M. M. C. C. FRESHMEN ELECT
SEMESTER CLASS OFFICERS
The second semester elections of 
Freshman Class officers in Margaret 
Morrison were held last week with 
the following results: President, Jo
sephine Sonneburn; vice president, 
Billie Bair; secretary, Virginia Paige; 
social chairman, Anne Dickinson; 
treasurer, Helen Lamb; Y. W. Cabinet 
representative, Martha Lou Clark and 
Senate representative, Jane Moses.
At a meeting of the class held Mon
day, February 27, a committee com
posed of Virginia Paige, Kay Collins 
and Carol Reese was appointed to 
draw up a class constitution.
Suits *4p, *45, *50 Topcoats
JUNIORS ELECT FISHER
TO SCIENCE PRESIDENCY
> On Thursday, March 1, the v 
Junior Class in Engineering * 
-I- elected for their new president, *5*
* A. M. Fisher, better known as *J*
* ^Alex, to fill that vacancy for %
* the remainder of this semester. *2*
* Fisher is active In campus afairs, being captain of the Varsity t*
* Rifle team and reporter for the -I*
* Tartan. His home is in Wash- * 
ington, D. C., but while at school, *
* he is living at Scobel Hall. *1*JU A, JU .J. . A ?.
PA GETWOHC HEERONIUTNI 
RSD GIRDT OG IYT
OF PITTSBURGH
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn-your most sincere liking.
ON DISPLAY AT
Jagcman & spickerT
The Mens Store of East Liberty 
6121 PENN AVENUE 
Branch4729 Liberty Branch5025 Penn Avenue
Direct University Service
What you need Is electric baths. 
Nothin doin, Doc. I had an uncle 
drown that way up in Sing Sing. 
Exchange.
| FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST J
SCIENTIST 
 CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH j
SUNDAY SERVICES 
j 11 A. M. 8 P. M. J
j Sunday School 11 A. M }
| Wednesday evening services 8 to :> Tapered T", 
Roller ) P..
TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE

---------------------------------------------------

W. R. JACOBS. Snles Assistant, 
W. T. N. S., 22
F. E. MORGART, Contract Administration. 
W. T. N. S.,'21
L. IC. LYN DE, Ileaihjiinrler Sales, 
Uitlvuritlty of New 
IIiimpHlitrc. '20
G. B. BALLAliD, Motor Design, 
Queens, '24
C. E. BASTON,Equipment and Service 
Univ. of Cal.. *21
R. C.. JONES. Control Designer, 
Penn State. '23YOUNGER COLLEGE MEN
ON RECENT WESTINGHOUSE JOBS
PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 192
INTRA-MURAL BRIEFS
The termination of! the Intra-Mural 
series I4 peering over the horizon. 
What does ,It see? It X4 hard to pro
gnosticate, but you can obtain a va
riety of answers if *you will merely 
question the sages of the avrlouti com
petitors. Each will show you by slmjde, but rather hazy calculations, how 
they are going to win.
in. the National League the T. X. 
team is still leading, but who can toll 
whether or not they will remain on 
their pedestal? Some dark horse 
may UFtrate. their fond hopes.
Although the Phi Kaps are In first 
place, in the American League, they 
 are kept In suspense by the Beta Sig
ma Rhos.
Prom all appearances McGill Hall 
will be hard to oust from its leading 
position in the Federal League.
, Scobell Hall, one of the strongest 
teams in fjbe American League, was 
conquered last week by the Phi Kap
pas. These Connelly boys sure do 
know their basket ball.
The A. T. O.s seein to be emulating 
the varsity. They lost their last 
game to the D. XJ.'s.
The stellar playing of ltikoski won 
or McGill against Boss Hall.
In the clash between the Delta 
Phis and the Delta Tails the specta
tors witnessed a great deal of promis
cuous shooting. However, in the end 
the Delta Bills won by a margin of 
four points.
The Betas with very little trouble, 
vanquished the P. K. A/s.
The Kappa Sigma Rhos success
fully overwhelmed the Beta Sigs in 
their contest last week.
 The Alpha Sigma Phi's were easily 
squelched by the S. P. E.s. Loos, 
Knutson and White were the out
standing players for the Forbes 
street men.
VARSITY FLOORMEN 
CLOSE SEASON WITH 
THIRTEENTH DEFEAT
Harvey White Re-elected to 
Captain Quint Quint For 
Next Week
The Sigma Nus showed little neigh
borly spirit when they roundly trim
med the S. A. E.s.
) The Sigma Kappa's and the Delta 
Mus certainly, wore evenly matched, 
jBoth teams see-sawed through, the 
game and* when the whistle blow the 
I Phi Sigs were on top, 16 to 15.
 The Kappas Sig5s added another 
scalp to their list, when they downed 
 the Welch Hall team.
; The scintillating passing and pro'i else shooting of Kennedy saved the 
I. day for Nu Delta Alpha in their fray 
! against tho Phi Psis.
Henderson Hall stopped out of 
their class whtln they played tho TheIn Xls.
Lnnt Weeks Scores.
National League - 
Sigma Nu ..............................33
Sigma Alpha Epsilon........13
Kappa Sigma...........................29
Welch Hall ........................13
Nu Dell, a Alpha ....................20
Phi Kappa Psi (.. .13
1 M'heta XI ................................21
Henderson Hall ................... 6
American League
Delta Upsilon .......................23
Alpha Tau Omega ................11
Phi Kappa ............................ 17
Scobell Hall ..........................10
Kappa Sigma Rho ..............18
Beta Sigma Rho ..................13
Beta Theta Pi........................21
Pi Kappa Alpha ...................11
Federal League
McGill Hall ...........................24
Boss Hall .............................. 7
Delta Phi Delta ....................20
Delta Tau Delta....................16
'Sigma Phi Epsilon...............17
Alpha Sigma Phi ................. 9
Phi Sigma! Kappa.................16
Delta Mu ...............................15
This Week's Schedule.
Monday, March 5, '1928
Dolta Upsilon vs. Bota Sigma Rho 
7:30.
McGill Hall vs. Phi Sigma Kappa 
S: 30. v
Delta. Tau Dolta vs. Sigma Phi Ep
silon7:30.
,'uosday, March 6. 1928
Kappa Sigma vs. Sigma Nu8:30. 
Nu Delta Alpha vs. Theta XI8:30. 
Kappa Sigma Rho vs. Alpha Tau 
Omega7 :30.
Beta Thota Pi vs. Scobell Hall 
7:30.
Wednesday, March 7, 192S
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Welch 
Hall-8:30.
Henderson Hall vs. Phi Kappa Psi 
7:30.
Boss Hall vs. Delta Mu7:30. 
Delyta Phi Delta vs. Alpha Sigma 
Phi8:30.
Cheers, more cheers, huge columns 
of cheers rent the air as the battling 
Scotch forged ahead for a five-point 
lead over tho W. & J. fioormen last 
Wednesday. It was close, very close; 
everyone was confident that the Tar
tans were going to shake the jinx 
which has been at their heels during 
tlie entire season.
The Carnegie basketeors have not 
succeeded In chalking up a winner 
this season, and never has any Car
negie quint of previous years been 
able to down the Presidents, but it 
certainly looked as if the Skibo five 
was going to make history last Wed
nesday. To wind up their season of 
defeats with a victory, and at the 
same time subject the Red and Black, 
would have caused the most reserved 
student to wax boisterous.
The Red and Black jumped away at 
the opening whistle, witli a five-point 
lead, but soon found themselves 
battling with five fighting Tartans 
who were striving to tack a victory 
onto the tail of an otherwise very 
black season. In a few minutes of 
spectacular, whirlwind playing, the 
Ski bos had balanced the slate and 
forged to the front. Tieing the score 
several times but usually at the little 
end of, the score, the Presidents be
gan to register quite a little worry; 
a 20-19 tally at the half didnt help 
their state of mind to any great ex
tent.
The second period was one of the 
most bitter engagement eyer played 
on the Plaid floor. The Tartans held 
their lead but were gradually being 
overhauled point by point. Whites 
leaving, via the personal foul route, 
weakened the quint so much that 
they found it impossible to resist the 
Presidents last desperate rush. After 
chalking up a five-point lead the in
vaders scurried to the defensive, 
playing for time until the final gun 
The last few seconds was a battle 
royal with the Plaid trying every way 
possible to dose in, but seemed une
qual to the task.
It was diminutive High who played 
one of tlie best games of the season. 
Guarding nil the time, fighting his 
large opponents continually for the 
ball he found time to sink several 
pretty ones from mid-floor. Captain 
White played a dazzling, spectacular, 
game. In the first half High- and 
Crum chalked up two goals apiece, 
while Letzelter, White and Iiarpster 
looped i in single baskets.
Harps tor played ono of his best 
games. He dropped three goals 
through, two of which wore in tho 
closing minutes of the game. It was 
not until tlie last Pitt ganfe that 
Harpstor exhibited more than ordin
ary basketball, If lie had boen avail
able and had played as well in tho 
opoiiing gamos of the season, there 
would have probably been a much 
different story to toll Hitchcock,,, al' 
though badly handicapped with an in
jured log, played his usual high grad-a 
basketball while ho was in the fray.
The basketball season just ended, 
was tlie most disastrous thal Carnegie 
has'over had. The failure of the team 
to chalk up at least one victory in its 
entire schedule sets a record in local 
collegiate competition. They were 
beaten three times by Pitt, twice 
each by West Virginia, Genova, Penn 
State, and Wash-JefC and lost single 
games to NOtre Dame and Davis and 
Elkins. Victories or no victories the 
team did their best and even the best 
of teams can do no better than that.
Harvey White, captain of the team 
during the past season, was elected 
captain again, for next season, at a 
banquet in the fieldhouse on Thurs
day night. The feast was an informal 
one, with the renowned Bert Munhall as chef.
Lineup:
Closest Yet!
Wasli-Jeff33. Carnegie Tech28.
Kirkman ..............P.........;......... White
Robinson ..............P...................... Crum
Saunders .............C.......... Harpster
Gilchrist ..............G................... Brown
McMunn ..............G..........................High
Score by periods:
Wash-Jeff ............................ 20 1333
Carnegie Tech .................... 19 928
SubstitutionsLetzelter for Brown;
Hitchcock for Letzelter; Brown for 
White; Kilgore for Crum; .Lpt^elter
for Kilgore. Field goalsKirkman
3, Robinson 5, Saunders 4, Gilchrist, 
Lotzelter, White, , Crum 3, Harpster 3, 
High 2. Foul goalsRobinson 2 out 
of 3, Gilchrist 1 out of 3, Kirkman 2 
out of 3, S'aundors 2 out of 3, Harp
stor 1 out of 1, Brown 1 out of 1, High 
1 out of 2, Crum 1 out of 1, Lotzelter 
1 out of 1, White 2 out of 4, Hitch
cock, 1 out of 2. Reforeo-rMarty 
Woitzol. UmpireAl Slack.
Intra-Mural League Standings
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Won._ Theta Xi .............................................................. 4
Kappa Sigma ...................................................... 3
Sigma Nu ............................................................ 2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ......................................... 2
Nu Delta Alpha .................................................. 2Phi Kappa Psi . ............................................... 1
Henderson Hall ................................................. 1
Welch Hall .......................................................... 0
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Won.Phi Kappa ........................................................... 4
Scobell Hall ........................................................ 3
Beta Theta Pi .................................................... 'SDelta Upsilon ....................................................... 2
Beta Sigma Rho ............................................. 2
Pi Kappa Alpha ................................................. 1
Kappa Sigma Rho.............................1............... 1Alpha Tau Omega ............................................. 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Won.
McGill Hall .......................................................... 4Sigma Phi Epsilon ...................................... 3
Phi Sigma Kappa ............................................. 2
Boss Hall ...........................;.............................. 2Dolta Phi Delta ................: ......................  2
Alpha Sigma Phi.............................................. 1
Delta Tau Delta................................................... 1
Delta Mu .............................................................. 0
Lost.
01
122
2
34
Lost.
0
1
12
2
Lost.
0
11
Pet.
1.U0
.750.*367
.500.500
.333
.250.000
Pet.
1.000
.750
.7-50
.500.500
.250
.250
.000
Pet.
1.000
.750
.667
.:i00.500
.333.250
.000
Stunts Will Be Feature
Of Electricals Smoker
. The final preparations for the Elec
trical smoker, to be given Wednesday, 
March 7, at 7:30 p. m. in 202 Machin
ery rfall, have been completed. As is 
the custom at this annual affair, the 
sophomore, junior and senior classes 
will compete for theatrical honors 
with their class stunts. Music for 
the event, an innovation on the Car
negie campus, will be presented by 
Ralph Kruck and his Tartans.
Short talks by some of the pro
fessors in the Electrical department 
and a technical movie will complete
the* evenings entertainment. Plenty 
of food and smokes are promised by 
the committee and all electrical stu
dents are urged to attend. The price 
is 25 cents.
Eugene, Ore.(IP)For the first 
'time in the history of the school, a 
University of Oregon diploma has 
been issued written entirely in Ja
panese. This queer looking document, 
which starts at the right side and 
reads upward and to the left, has been 
j forwarded by Earl M. Pallett, regisj trar of the University of Oregon, to 
Masa Nori Yamashita of Ivagawakon, 
Manugama, Japan, a graduate of the 
 class of January, 1928.
CARNEGIE NATAT0RS 
LOSE TO CASE, 28-31
The Carnegie Tech swimming team 
lost a close meet to the Case School 
team at Cleveland last Saturday. The 
score was 31 to 28. Basler of Carne
gie easily annexed the diving honors, 
giving a pretty exhibition.
Aiulersoji brought victory to Case 
by taking first place in a trio of 
events, the 40-yard, 100-yard and 220- 
yard free style races.
Carnegie captured the 160-yard re
lay and the. 100-yard backstroke event, 
Durr distancing Ruess of Case in a 
stirring finish. Summary:
160-yard relayCarnegie Tech won. 
Time1.24.
100-yard breast stroke  McGrew 
(C.) won; Sangster (C. T.) 2; Larkin 
(C.) 3. Time 1:20.
40-yard free styleAnderson (C.) 
won;. Kirkner (C.) 2; Wray (C. T.) 
3. Time20 4-5 second.
220- yard freeAnderson (C.) 
won; Vonende (C. T.) 2; Hobe (C.) 
3. Time2.41.
DivingBasler (C. T.) won; Pierce 
(C.) 2; Hornbostel (C. T.) 3.
100-yard backstrokeDurr (C. T.) 
won; Ruess (C.) 2; Macg (C.) 3.
Time1.22 2-5.
100-yard free styleAnderson (C.) 
won; Brush (C. T.) 2; Wray (C. T.) 
3. Time1.03.
Bones
The feet contain 25 per cent of the
Oakland Savings and Trust Company
The Oakland Bank
Capital, $300,000.00 
Surplus, $400,000.00 
Deposits Over $6,000,000.00
OFFICERS
C. B. Aylesworth.............. ..................President
Clyde C. Taylor.....................................Vice President
R. J. Miller............................................Vice President
O. C. Young.................1................................Treasurer
P. W. Cotton.................................Assistant Treasurer
C. W. Ehni................................................   .Secretary
Adam Roscoe................................Assistant Secretary
DIRECTORS
C. II. Kerr 
R. Rogers Flannery 
Barnev Dreyfuss 
J. . Milier 
R. J. Miller 
A. J. Loeffler
John Dimling 
James B. Clark 
Clyde C. Taylor 
A. B. Sheets 
C. B. Aylesworth 
John G, Pew
Member Federal Reserve System
The Great 'Northern Electrification
Washingtons Politics
Washington was a Federalist, and 
a strong party man at that, but he 
was unanimously elected to the Pres
idency by the Federalists and Dem
ocrats. He was also tlie unanimous 
choice when running for re-election. 
John Adams was vice president under 
Washington and succeeded him In the 
Presidency. There was a contest, 
however, In 1796 between Adams, Fed
eralist, and Jefrerson, Democrat, In 
which the former was the winner.
Where do young college men get in a large 
industrial organization? Have they 
opportunity to exercise creative talent?
Is individual work recognized?
1 i 1
S
kyward from Skykomish 
climbs the Great Northern in 
Western Washingtonup twenty 
miles of 2.2 per cent grade, around 
sharp lo-degree curves, scaling 
the Cascade Mountains, at an 
elevation of 3000 feet. The new 
7^ mile electrified Cascade Tun
nel, now building, 
will be the longest 
railroad tunnel in 
America. Besides
shortening the present route jyi 
miles, it will bring the maximum 
elevation below the level of ex
cessive snowfall. Preliminary to 
its construction, and as an earlier 
step in the ultimate electrification 
of all trans-Cascade trackage, the 
section between Skykomish and 
the entrance to the present tunnel 
was electrified in 1925.
The big jobs go to big organ
izations. Westinghouse attracts 
young men of enterprise andWestinghouse
genius because it daily provides 
facilities and opportunities which 
smaller companies can seldom 
offer.
/ r 1
A noteworthy feature of the Great 
Northern electrification is the use of 
motor-generator electric locomotives. 
These new-type locomotives draw 
high-voltage alterna ting-cur rent 
power from the wire and convert it, 
on the locomotive, into, low-voltage 
direct-current power for the driving 
motors. This system eliminates the 
need of sub-station 
power-converting 
equipment along the 
rail road right-of-way.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
i4ITH lRT4ST am6
enu9n2i Xoutniib 
mU8YS6 Ym oSY 
R6Ym8 mc mPl 
omPlT cm6 4IHfTSPcA
On the Plaid ScreenGirl Riflers Win Two 
Matches And Lose One
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
Carnegies most disastrous basket ball season closed last Wednesday, the j 
defeat at the hands of the W. & J. five winding up a season devoid of vie- | 
tories. The last game, like the West Virginia game the preceding Friday, was j a thriller from th standpoint of the spectator, close and hard fought. In both j 
games the Skibos led at the half by a good margin, only to weaken in the i 
final frame and lose the game. The team tried hard all of the time, but ap- ! 
peared to lack the co-operation necessary to keep a lead once it was secured. 1 
Some of the Pittsburgh papers commented upon the splendid spirit shown ! 
by the Carnegie students in backing up a losing team. The point is a good t 
one, for it is true that students turned out in greater numbers for home games | 
this year than they did last year, when the team won a game occasionally, j 
And it is also true that the team deserved all the support that it received, for i 
every man on it did the best he could at all times.
But, good losers or not. many students are not satisfied with the explana- j 
tion that the breaks were always against Carnegie, and that, even when the j 
team was going well, the teams which it met were just a trifle better. Many ! 
who saw all of the home games are of the opinion that the Carnegie men were I 
better basket ball players than those on several.of the teams which defeated j 
the Plaid, and that the margin of victory was caused by superior coaching. !
It is the usual thing for the coach of a losing team to be blamed for a \ 
losing season, and that fact should be borne in mind when criticism is direct- i 
ed at Coach Irwin. We feel sincerely sorry for John Irwin, for he is now in ; a very unenviable position. It is deplorable that a man of Mr. Irvins caliber j 
a gentleman in every sense of the wordshould have his ability questioned. 
But the fact remains that his record here leaves his ability open to question.
Whether the poor record of the past season, and for that matter, of the 
season before, is due to the coach, to lack of material, or to bad breaks, is a 
very hard matter to decide. But it should be decided before a coach for 
next year is selected, for in this day and age victories are the standard by 
-which a college is judged, and the Carnegie basket ball record for the recent 
season was productive of anything but desirable publicity.
Harvey White, captain of the basket ball team during the past season, 
was selected to lead the quint again next year, at a meeting after an informal 
basket ball banquet in the Field House last Thursday evening. The election 
is a splendid tribute to Whitey, evidence to his popularity among his team
mates and to their appreciation of his efforts as their leader during the diffi
cult season which has just closed.
Whitey is probably the best all-around player on the team, proving his 
ability time and again'during the recent campaign. His anxiety to win caused 
him to be in the thick of the combat at all times, resulting in his being often 
removed from games on account of personal fouls. His re-election is certain 
to receive the approval of all interested in Carnegie athletics, with the hope 
that the team's record next year may do its leader justice. Whitey is a junior 
in Building Construction, and is a member of Kappa Sigma and Druids. He 
captained the plebe quint two years ago.* * * *  * *
The varsity swimming team invaded Cleveland last Saturday, and lost a 
close meet to Case in the latters pool, the score being 2S to 31... The entire 
team performed well, with Basler and Durr the outstanding men; the former 
by winning the fancy dive in easy fashion, and the latter by copping the back
stroke in a stirring finish.* * * * * * *
Coach Halferty met candidates for varsity and freshman track last week, 
and outlined plans for the coming season. He announced that preliminary 
training will start immediately, outdoors on such days as the weather will per
mit. Prospects for the varsity are about the same as last year, while fresh
man prospects are very bright, if high school records mean anything.*******
Rumors have it that the Eastern Intercollegiate rifle matches may be held at the Carnegie range this year. If this comes to pass, the campus will 
shortly be overrun with hundreds of varsity riflemen from leading eastern 
colleges.This shoulder to shoulder match is sponsored by the National Rifle Asso
ciation, and was held last year in New York. Holding a match of this im
portance here would mean nation-wide publicity for Carnfegie Tech.*******
The yearly triangular match between the varsity, girls' and plebe rifle 
teams gets under way this week, and lasts for two weeks. The prone, position 
only is shot. A scrutiny of the records made by the three teams so far this 
year indicates a probable victory for the girls.______________________________________
Co-eds Give Promise of Mak
ing Good Showing in the 
Triangular Meet
Co-ed Athletes Enjoy 
Sports Day At Pitt
At the 'Sports Day exercises held 
last Saturday at the University of 
Pittsburgh, Carnegie Tech, Pitt, Slip
pery Rock, and Pennsylvania College 
for Women were each represented by 
approximately 24 of their best girl 
basketeers. The program was con
ducted by the Pitt Womens Athletic 
Association and took place in Trees 
gymnasium.
The exercises began at one oclock. 
Two basketball teams from each col
lege were formed, one composed of 
seniors and sophomores, and one of 
juniors and freshmen, each team play, 
ing one game. Lots were drawn to 
determine which colleges were to play 
against each other, and four games in 
all were played off. in addition to 
the games, contests in basketball 
throwing for distance, field goal shoot
ing, and foul shooting were engaged 
in. Points were awarded each col
lege in all of the activities. A farcical 
game of basketball between the cap
tains of the college teams and a mys
terious,' absurdly outfitted group of 
players including referees and what 
not, completed the program in the 
gym.
After a swim in the pool the girle 
proceeded to Heinz House where they 
were served with a deTigntful and 
most welcome supper and entertained 
by an orchestra. In spite of the 
strenuous activities of the afternoon, 
no one was too exhausted to take ad
vantage of the smooth, inviting dance 
floor and th lively music. After sup
per the results of the afternoons con
tests wre announced. The slip
pery Rock girls carried off the honors 
of the day and were presented with a 
large, handsomely gilded tin cup. The 
captains of the Slippery Rock teams 
also received a five-pound box of 
chocolates.
Last year Sports Day was held at 
Pitt at the same time, and this year 
proved no less succesful. The Pitt 
W. A. A. is planning to hold this 
event again next year. In May, Pitt 
is sponsoring another similar program 
to be held in the stadium. It will not 
be limited to basketball alone but 
will include all the different sports 
participated in by the colleges# All 
the colleges of Western Pennsylania 
are to be represented.
All the girls who have attended 
these Sports Days at Pitt feel that 
they most surely owe a debt of grati
tude to the Pitt Womens Athletic 
Association. S'ud programs help to 
create iftore interest in college ath
letics for girls.
Bert Munhall Has New 
Football Point Idea
Hanover, N. H. (IP)An Eighteeninch silver cup is the prize offered the 
fraternity at Dartmouth which can 
display the best work of snow sculp
ture. The only stipulation is that the 
statue must be made of ice or snow.
Last ye&r the contest was won by 
Sigma Nu, the statue being a girl on
It is quite within the realm of pos
sibility that Carnegie Tech football 
teams of the future will make their 
try for point after touchdown under 
a ruling devised by the king of their 
own fieldhouse, Bert Munhall. Con
trary to the popular cpnception of an 
athletic trainer, Bert does some real 
thinking and the latest result of that 
practice is a system for scoring the 
try for point after touchdown so as to 
eliminate tie games.
Berts conclusions are as follows: 
From experience, he has learned that 
when a football team lines up under 
its own goal posts to attempt the 
breaking up of the try for point after 
touchdown, there is a general reac
tion or relaxation. They have been 
scored upon so why worry about an
other point? If the rule makers' 
would graduate the point system, one 
point for a placement goal, two points 
for a play through the line, and three 
points for a foreward pass attempt, 
interest in the game would not only 
keep the players on their toes, but 
would also keep the spectators on 
edge to determine which of tlje three 
systems the team would use. And as 
Bert says, if one team was leading 
seven to nothing, the other, after it 
had scored would certainly attempt 
the two or three point medium to gain 
the lead. It would not cause any more 
tie games than there has been; per
haps it would do away with many of 
them.
There - has been in increasing num
ber of tie games in the last few years 
which leads to an intense dissatisfac
tion among the teams and adherents. 
Those connected with football have 
been suggesting many schemes to 
overcome this difficulty. Munhalls 
suggestion stands out from the rest 
as being decidedly workable and prac
tical. It has received commendation 
in the press and members of the rules 
committee have made favorable com
ments upon it. It is quite likely that 
this proposed ruling may be brought 
forward for consideration at the next 
revising of the playing rules.
Coach Wally Steffen, during his 
late visit to Pittsburgh, became quite 
enthused over the plan, saying it was 
about the best remedy that could be 
offered. Assistant Coach Al Irwin, 
and Graduate Manager Buddy Over
end, also favor the scheme; Buddy 
would have the try through the line 
receive three points in preference to 
the forward pass.
Two more victories and one defeat 
have been credited to the womens 
rifle team. Against the University of 
Missouris 4S6 points, Carnegie 
scored 496. The University of Wyom
ing was defeated by a score of 4SS to 
4S0. Michigan State Collee, how
ever, scored 4S9 to Carnegies 4SS, 
thus winning by one point. A match 
with Depauw University was fired at 
the same time but no report of their 
record has been received.
Some of the recent high scores of 
the co-eds give promise of an inter
esting match between the varsity, 
the plebes, and the womens team. 
This triangular match is to begin 
this week and will continue for two 
weeks. Thus far, the girls have four 
record scores of 100 to their credit 
while the men have but three. This, 
of course, applies only to prone shoot
ing. The triangular- match will in
clude only prone firing. Competition 
promises to be keen.
The scoring against University of 
Missouri was as follows:
Alice Bright ........................100
Isobel Sheppard ..................100
Dorothy Roy .......................100
Helen Bright ....................... 98
Carolyn Shults ................... 9S
The five high scores against Uniersity of Wyoming and Michigan 
State College were:
Helen Bright....................... 99
Jean Roy ............................ 99
Alice Bright ....................... 97
Carolyn Shults ................... 97
Katherine Collins............... 97
PLEBE SHOOTERS 
WIN FROM R. P. I.
In the two matches fired during the 
week ending February 2S, the Carne
gie Plebes came through with flying 
colors, decisively defeating the Fresh
men from Rensallaer Polytechnic In
stitute, in the prone position, 477 to 
470. No results were received from 
Virginia Military Institute, the other 
team scheduled to fire against the 
Plebes.
Carnegie scores were:
Sketres ................................ 96
Cadmus ............................... 96
Maidmeht ............................ 96
Herter ............................... 95
. Genter ...........'..................... 96
Total ..................................477
R. P. 1...................................470
Two matches will be fired this 
week, one with the University of 
Pennsylania Freshmen and the other 
with the Freshmen from Uncle Sams 
Naval Academy. The would-be Mid
shipmen split even with the yearlings 
a year ago, each team annexing one 
meet.
This week, and the one following, 
will find the Plebes busily engaged in 
firing their annual Triangular match 
with the varsity and womens teams. 
Last year, due to an unaccountable 
slump, they had to assist in feting 
the victorious varsity, a party given 
by the losers for the winners being 
the prize at stake.
Plebes End Season 
With W. & J. Loss
COMMITTEE CONSIDERING 
SECOND RADIO HOUR
Columbus, Ohio.(IP)Previously 
declared ineligible students were in 
the cast, crew and orchestra of the 
Scarlet Mask Show, Beau Ivay.
This is the charge brought up by the 
members of the Ohio State University 
administration board at a special 
meeting of the Student Court.
Scarlet Mask, through its spokes
man, Matthew W. McConnell, pleaded 
guilty to the charge, but asked le
niency because no definite responsi
bility had been affixed in regard to the 
enforcement of eligibility rules.
The court then reconsidered its sus
pension of one year from all activity 
for the Scarlet Mask Club, for it was 
of the opinion that; an unavoidable 
misunderstanding prevailed in regard 
to the universitys ruling on inligi
bles.
Sentence was then suspended, 
warning issued 
violations will be
Dr. Miller Will Speak At 
Hindustan Meeting On Sat.
| The Pittsburgh chapter of the HinI dustan Association of America will
| hold, its regular meeting next Satur
day evening, March 10, at S o'clock in 
M. M. C. C. Recreation Hall. As spe
cial speaker for this meeting, the so
ciety has secured the services of Dr. 
Nathan Miller of the Economics De
partment at Carnegie, who will dis
cuss Industry in India. Dr. Miller 
is well-known on Carnegies campus 
as a regular contributor to the Tar
tans Seriously Speaking column as 
well as Professor of Economics. Dr. 
Miller has made a very careful study, 
of the economic situation in India and 
in his talk next Saturday will no 
doubt throw a new and interesting 
light on Indian industry and the pe
culiar economic problems of that 
country. For this reason members of 
the Hindustan Association are invit
ing to their meeting all students who 
are interested In India and economic.
The last game of the Freshman j 
basket ball season was played off last 
Wednesday evening with Washington 
and Jefferson as the opponents. The 
final score was, of course, in tho Lit
tle Presidents favor being 23 to 20. 
This final score was not indicative of 
the play, for there should have been 
at least a ten-point lead with tho 
Plebes on the long end. The gamo 
itself was poorly played by both 
teams and, as In other cases, all 
through the season. Carnegie had 
excellent opportunities to register 
due to the poor playing of their oppo
nents, but they either did not recog
nize these opportunities or they were 
indifferent about taking advantage of 
them. W. and J. did not beat the 
Yearling because they had a good ) 
team, but because the Yearlings had 
a weak offense. It is all over, how
ever, and the records are closed on 
the most defeated team in this section 
of- the country. It is a shame that a 
team which, in most instances, had 
the lead during the first half, should 
in the final period lose it through an 
utter lack of training.
Next year the Plebes may realize the 
seriousness of representing Carnegie 
in the field of sports and will supply 
the varsity with a fighting spirit.
The lineup:
Carnegie. W. & J.
Nease ....................F......... Blackmore
Weiss .....................F...................... Scott
Flanagan ................C.............. Hamilton
Black .....................G.................. Levine
Carlson .................G........ Shumacher
Field goalsNease 2, Davis 1, Fox 
1, Flanagan 1, Black 1, Carlson 1, 
Blackmore 2, Scott 1, Smith 1, Hamil
ton 2.
Foul goals  Nease 2, Davis 1, 
Black 4, Carlson 1, Blackmore 7, 
Scott 1, Levine 3.
SubstitutionsDavis for Weiss, Fox 
for Flanngan, Traa for Black, Bayless 
for Carlson, Smith for Hamilton, 
Creed for Shumacher.
The first Carnegie Radio Hour 
which was broadcast over KDICA on 
Tuesday evening, February 14, was 
such a success and caused so much 
favorable comment, that the commit
tee is seriously considering holding: 
another radio- entertTrihmeht beforo1 
tho semester ends. No arrangements 
have been made with KDICA, as yet, 
but tho committee expects to begin 
negotiations soon.
It is certain that everyone who was 
fortunate enough to listen to the first 
program will welcome another enter
tainment by tho Glee Club, the Kilties, 
the Symphony Orchestra, the Dra
matic Department, Mr. Hllty, the 
tenor and Mr. Blackball, the bagpipe 
player. The radio hour furnishes an 
effective means to make Carnegie well 
known to tho public and it is hoped 
that plans for the affair will go 
through as expected.
Don. McClure To Manage 
C. W. Vaudeville Show
Austin, Texas.Through the Bu
reau of Plant Introduction of the Unit
ed States Department of Agriculture 
some new immigrants came Into this 
country recently. Some cherry tr.ees 
from Chico, Japan, were sent from the 
government station there for the 
botanical gardens or the University of 
Texas.
Donald McClure, senior in the De
partment of Dro,matlGS, Is to be mana
ger of the vaudeville show this Cam
pus Week. He has made no announce
ment of the rest of his committee as 
yet. However, he states that he will 
preseirt a short but very snappy show, 
preferring this to a long drawn-out af
fair at which the audience becomes 
bored. Anyone who has some act that, 
he would like to present should get in 
touch with* him at. once at the Sigma 
Nu house.
University of Chicago.The Univer
sity of California, has recently honored 
Josiah Royce Hon. 11, former Har
vard professor. The main auditorium 
and class room building now under 
construction at that university is to 
be named .losiah Royce Hall.
The building will contain a complete 
collection of the writings of Royce as 
a perpetual reminder of his thought 
and spirit and tho fullest means of ac
cess to them.
.losiah Royce held the Alford Pro
fessorship of Natural Religion, Moral 
Philosophy and Civil Poetry at Har
vard botweon 1914 a ml 19,1<>. Itoyco 
was a mombor of the 'American Acad
emy, and- tho American Philosophic! 
Society.
The Dashed-Off Effect
Nothing that sounds dashed off is 
if it is any good.Ohio State .lo^Vnal
Feb. 25 (IP)  
diapel has failed at
tho college officials inaua system of voluntary chapel 
as an experiment. If an
-- ....of 60 per cent of the students
regularly attended these services, tho 
president said, the system would be 
made permanent.
Second Church ot Christ, Scientist
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Announces a
FREE LECTURE ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
------by------ II
MRS. NELVIA E. RITCHIE, C. S., OF SEWICK LEY, PENNA.
Membor of the Board of Lectureship of Tho Mother Church, the First 
Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
SUNDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 11, 1928
at. 3:15NIXON THEATER, SIXTH AVENUE 
The Public Is Cordially Invited To Attend
Movie of a Man Trying a New. CigaretteCy BR1GS
IAK65 CIGARETTE ' 
FROM FRIGND AMD
SEST Y4S U8cRHIPIR6
PACKAGE DUBIOUSLY
PIK4YT IKR6SYYS 
2UT.IVImUTPr
Discovers MTEXR 
FEW PUFFS MOT 
Hard To Take 
and registers
DEEP SATISFACTION
aSSPT Y46mRY R8l
WONDERS WHERE
mPl Y46mRY YIVOPS 
4RT KmHS
oUP.T IH TU6.6ITS
Gsn8 He DOESM'T 
BRSAK OUT XOih
aIY mc mUK4 I HK
searches Tactfully 
.o PocKets To 
Himt He'D LIKE 
ANOTHER
f2iudd2 GsXdn 
iROEHo 2nygv 
IKR6SYYS IH 
y9vn9 To STUEr 
PACKAGE CLOSELY
a pedestal with the arm raised above | 
her head.
The contest this year ends on *the 
day of the closing of the Dartmouth 
winter carnival at which colleges and j 
universities from dll over the east and j 
even from the mid-west are competing I 
in skiing, skating and other winter j 
sports.
GPI BHPI7he Smoother and Better Cigarette 
 not a cough in a carload
P. Lorillard Co., Cet. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 6, 1928
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
PubllHhod once every week during: tho colic# year by undergraduate of Cnrncjfio Institute 
of Teehnolojiry. Entered in tbo Pittsburgh 
Pouf, Office n fwcond-clnmt mutter.
nvXiy9Xud TYRccEdlfctir-lTl-Chief ..................Fenton Finn
Martajglttg Editor.'...___Milton Cohen
News Editor.............Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor...............'..Fred WoodHWomen's Editor......................Jean Roy
Alumni Editor ..............Herbert Grau
. EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS RuHBoiiiJuilinger William Rose
A. E. Fisher E. Weaver
JohnSchhled'er Meredith StumpHelen'Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. Ci Ralaton Harold JacobBon
Dorothy Roy William. McNeill
 REPORTERS 
II. L, Bunker,. .Jr. Ina IlaiiBell
E. Jarema E. Schleslnger
T. Lippert DDf Kami
W. W. Hay , j. 4f McAteer C. Park C- Boy(]
J. J. Boyle: K. ODonnellH. N. Meixner BramBon
J. Carpe Hi whitehillII. Levin son ]3arr
J. W. Eaaou A; M> Fiaher
H. Booth j Ff White
M. B. Maze 
.' R. Nelson 
C. F. Ackenheil
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers
M. Echels 
N. Kline 
W. H. Worland 
W. II. Martsolf 
G. M. WilBon 
L. I. ShusBet
A. G. Allen J. B. Patterson
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager.___J. H. Seibert
Assistants R. WehrleT. R. Zenc D. H. Gen ter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION 
Circulation Manager..
Assistants
G. Brahmst J. Roth
G. C. Harbison .
G. Thompson
B. WednerA. Teplitz 
M. Malinich 
lt. W. Carter 
S. A. Bontonari
STAFF
Harold Kandell
A. Frank 
A. HaynesC. E. Blass 
S. Bluestone 
I. Levin
S. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville
OfficeRoom 12, IndimtricH Building. Offio 
HouriiMonday 1o Tliuradiiyn, 12:00-1:20 
PniHir mudo up Friday, 12:30-G :00.
To inmire publication on tlie Hiicceedinjr 
Tmiiduy, new tenni munt be in tlie ntudent 
pout oflice or Tartan Ofllce before <1:110 Thuruday.After Office Hourii cull Scbenley 1400, 
Scbenley 08-10, Sclienley 0211.All editorials which are initialed are contributed by persons other than 
the editor, uninitialed editorials are 
those by the editor.
COLLEGIATE CULTURE
 "Anyone who writes poetry oil this 
campus is afraid to admit it! 
..'When these words were said at a 
recent meeting of. students interested 
In the new magazine, several laughed
but everyone felt the truth beneath 
'tho over-statement.
For it. is true. Truo and peculiar, 
liocauso one would think that If there 
Vvart,any place on/earth where artistic 
n^prosslon should bo more easily and 
isymi.nlhotlcally received than any 
i other, that plitcG would most naturally 
bo whore contact with these "ohjocti' ncatijons of tho spirit" were most 
naturally made, In college.
Now It XO a fact that many pooplo 
.on this campus do write poetry and 
do sometimes show It, but at what 
cost? You show It to your own carofnlly selected group and tho members 
of It readily toll you wluit they think 
about It; the result Is usually mutu
ally beneficial. You try showing it to 
anyone outside of your coterie and 
what happens? Pooplo don't actually 
whisper abotit you, but a subtle 
change comes over them; they look 
at you quizzically, they hum and hem, 
they almost whisper. They nil but 
snort. The consequences to literature 
are shameful! Writing bad poetry 
is evidence of more intelligence than 
signing bad checks; theres that much 
to be said for it. And writing bad 
poetry is nothing to be laughed at for 
in college. One should at least be 
grateful that the culprit is yet inside 
the family and subject to careful 
criticism. Undergraduate verse is 
not expected to be Miltonic, not even 
always by the, author. It should be 
accepted in the same way by fellow 
students as that in which they accept 
any other work done by one of them, 
a dress from the sewing laboratory, a 
characterization from the Little The
ater. You cant get around the popu
lar belief that, however ignorant you 
are, the fact that you have been to 
college automatically aligns you on 
the sympathetic side of art.
The point is not whether the stu
dents efforts were good or bad in re
sult, but that college people should 
he so intolerant of exactly those 
tilings for which, in a general way, 
they stand. This does not moan that 
ovory time you seo a ooon-skin coat 
you should think of Lycidas, or that 
tho girls in tho Practice Houso write 
their menus in blank verso, or oven 
that, every sentence in tho Vl'tan is 
*a model of prose stylo. But,, that be
ing a/college man or woman ought to 
man being something above preju
dices, pettiness, meanness. Ono may 
never again have the opportunity of 
being as idealistic as he lias right 
here; it would be well to try to ap
proximate the more perfect world of 
which there are glimpses of now 
while comparatively sheltered from 
what vocational advisers call stern 
reality. For, God knows, there will 
be precious little time for that, for 
any of us after diplomas.
J. M. C.
THEY
It is undoubtedly true that there 
are styles in thought just as there are 
styles in clothes, customs and social i 
institutions. At present, the fash
ionable style of thought seems to be j 
cynicism. Our self-appointed critics j 
stand aloof from the plebian mob and | 
derogate the ideals and impute to | 
those upon whom falls the burden of 
performing necessary actions, base 
motives and fell purposes. Without 
exposing themselves to criticism by 
entering into activities, they do not 
hesitate to criticize the performance 
of those who do. Let George do it 
and then give George the devil for the 
way he does it," seems to be their 
motto.
Each of us is to some extent imbued 
with this spirit. "Look at the mess 
THEY have made of this job." "Why 
dont THEY do something about that 
situation?" THEY are behind this 
project because its failure would 
touch their pocket books. "THEY 
are in it for all THEY can get out of 
it." All THEY seem to think about 
is to pile on more work. WDon't 
I THEY want to win this game? 
"THEY stuffed tlie ballot box." 
What's the use? THEY have the 
staff sewed up."
The number of such examples could 
be multiplied almost indelnitely. 
Sometimes THEY refers to the fac
ulty, often to the student body, occa
sionally to "the government. Many 
times It is the administration, a fra
ternity, a class, a team, a periodical 
staff, the math department. Very sel
dom does THEY include the speaker.
We are all part and parcel of a so
cial unitythe Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. The acts of one or a 
group are the acts ot the unit. Suc
cess or failure in any field is the suc
cess or failure of the school.
Let us face the facts. The enviable 
position which Carnegie occupies 
among American technical schools has 
been primarily due to the continued 
excellence of the labors of faculty and 
administration. The extra-curricular 
activities which are handled almost 
entirely by the student body have 
I been spottyseasons of brilliance in
terspersed with periods of mediocrity.
The field of school journalism is 
I typical. The late Carnegie Technical 
I Journal and the Shilling enjoyed brili liant but brief careers. Their failure 
was due to a gradual decrease in sup
port. We are now attempting the es
tablishment of a new periodicalthe 
Carnegie Quarterly. Its success would 
carry Carnegie's name into fields not 
reached by coal conferences or foot
ball victories. Its genesis is auspi
ciousan enthusiastic backing and an 
able staff. Its success can be iissured 
by the energetic support of the stu
dent body.
C. F. N.
GRADUATES FOUNDTO BE EXPENSIVE
IF MARCH COMES IN LIKE A LION.SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
Members of Faculties Must See Their Duty as
Teachers of Young People, Says Professor
Pittsburgh Seniors Prepare Charts of 
Cost.
(By Exchange Service)
College graduates are expensive 
products, according to charts made re
cently by seniors at tlie University of 
Pittsburgh. Those charts show how 
much Pitt students cost their parents 
and society from birth until gradua
tion from college. The highest osti
niate of the total cost was $57,93!!, the 
lowest $14,300, and tho median $21,-
000.
The purpose of the charts accord
ing to Tliyrso W. Amos, dean of 
women and professor of sociology at 
the university, who ro(iulred each se
nior student who is taking her course 
in "The Art of Living to estimate 
the amount that has been spent on 
him thus far in his life, is to show the 
Btudent how much has been done for 
him and to enable him to run over the 
items of expenditure and determine 
which were necessary and which were 
extravagant. After estimating the 
amount that others have invested in 
him, she feels that he will recognize 
an obligation to make an adequate re
turn on the investment by making the 
most of himself.
The information in the reports was 
furnished by city and county officials, 
by parents of the students, and from, 
the students knowledge. No student 
in the course is over 22 years of age 
and both men and women are in
cluded.
The estimates included all necessi
ties, luxuries, gifts, protection, privil
eges, education and, in short, every
thing in .tlie students life that has 
cost money.
The highest estimate, $57,933, was 
a girls, but one of th men in the 
class is not far behind with $515,000. 
The lowest amount expended, $1^,360, 
is a girls estimate.
On the highest estimate, the student 
received $8,(506.05 in automobiles, $10,- 
059 in amusements, Including recrea
tion, clubs, fraternity, parties and 
toys; $0,(510 for education, $9,010 in 
food, $12,000 in clothing, $3,210 in al
lowance, $1S,744, lior share in her 
home, $1,950 in doctor bills, and $100 
cost of birth.
Tho student who submitted the low
est ostiniate included $420 In automo
biles, $123 in amusemonts, $S0S in 
education, $3S0 allowance, $3,225 In 
food, $183 doctor, $911 home, $1,920 
clothing and $50 blvtli.
The median, which the majority of 
charts approached, included $3,000 for 
automobiles, $2,100 for education, $1,- 
100 for allowance, $1,133 for amuse
ment, $5,4S4 for food, $4,005 for cloth
ing, $5,000 for home, $720 for doctor 
bills and $290 cost of birth.
McGill University.
South Hadley, Mass.The business 
of college professors is to teach 
young people rather than to make 
themselves specialized masters of 
some remote field of learning, declar
ed Ralph P. Boas, professor of Eng
lish in. Mount Holyoke College, before 
the Graduate Council li'ere.
This done, much of the problem of 
adjusting colleges in the United 
States to the requirements of the 
modern era would be solved, he as
serted.
Faculties must see their job as tlie 
education of young people, not the 
accumulation and increase of knowl
edge, he said. 'The specialization 
of the graduate school has crept down 
into the college until now the college 
faculties often deny the existence of 
any other ideal of scholarship than 
minute dissection of a limited field. 
Intellectual power is not synonymous 
with specialized scholarship. Teach
ers are often more interested in their 
subjects than in their students.
Interests Vary.
iAll too often teachers want to 
teach highly specialized varieties of 
knowledge. All too often students 
don't want to learn what the faculty 
have to teach. They attend classes by 
compulsion rather than choice. Tlioy 
want 120 credit^, not a full and com
plete knowledge of some branch of 
i academic learning.
STUDY YOUR MAN
FOR BIOGRAPHY,
SAYS DR. LUDWIG
Character Is Main Factor in Painting 
the True Portrait, He Finds
The epoch of battles is finished, 
said Dr. Emil Ludwig, whose lives of 
Bismarck, Napoleon, Goethe and Wil
liam II of Germany have placed; him 
in the forefront of biographers, in an 
interview in Boston. He was replying 
to a question as to whether he thought 
tho day of the soldier-hero had gone, 
and whether he believed a notable 
change had come over the world.
The question developed from a dis
cussion of ills method of writing, an 
interesting subject, for his biography 
of Napoleon alone Is said to have run 
into 100,000 copies, bidding fair to 
make his success equal that of Ii. G. 
Wells, whosC "Outline of History- is 
reputed to have netted its author 
$500,000.
Without hesitation, Dr. Ludwig 
plunged into a discussion of methods: 
"The portrait painter has never one 
technique. He varies It to suit the 
personality. Every personality needs 
a different style. Personally I begin 
with the face. I study the face from a 
photograph, from a bust, from a statue, 
for the face is the truest part of a 
man.
Inspired as a Lad.
It was a picture of Napoleon at St. 
Helenaa picture of a great man in 
exilewhich he saw as a boy that 
first made a great impression upon 
him, and remained with him: He
could not forget it. When lie was 25 
years old he wrote a tragedy of Napo
leon, and he knew nothing about the 
details of Bonapartes life.
Fifteen or 20 years later he wrote 
a book on Napoleona book that has 
had a phenomenal ^success for the bio
graphy of a man who has had so much 
written about himand he found no 
reason for altering the essentials in 
the play.
He admitted that he never had been 
to Corsica. Asked how he could con
vey so vivid an idea of conditions 
there in tlip time of Napoleon, he re
plied that life in Corsica was very 
similar to that of Italy, and he had 
spent a good deal of time there.
He, in fact, declared that he had 
never explored any of the battle
grounds whore the fascinating ex
ploits of Napoleon took placewhich 
may explain in part the fact that he 
does well on battles in the biogra
phies of his heroes.
"The biographer, he said, must 
begin with intuition. History begins 
with source material. The professor, 
Dr. Ludwig selected him not for fliis 
solderly qualities or achievements. 
Military men," he said, do not in
terest me. I wrote about Bismarck 
because he was a statesman, and 
about Napoleon for the same reason. 
The man who does nothing else than
As a. result of this attitude, they 
ignore the teachers and set out to get 
an education from each other, the 
athletic coach, and their own activi
ties. Three-fourths of the difficulty 
is due to disregard of the fundamental 
that the college is committed to the 
idea that it teaches and that the stuI dent comes primarily to learn from 
! his teacher."
| Professor Boas spoke on The Asj sault on the Colleges. This assault, 
he said, is of two'types, indirect and 
I direct. Indirectly the college suffers 
| from pseudo-collegiate magazines, col; legiate, movies, and collegiate clothes.
Misconception of Colleges, 
j By people who have no contact 
with colleges, students are supposed 
to lie oxerindulged young animals, ex
pensively clothed, good natured and 
I reckless. To such people the athletic 
j coach is the'head of the college, and 
j college days are a golden ,dream.
To meet the criticisms, Professor 
i Boas recommended several fundament' 
I al axioms, among which were:
I College is not the same as the 
I competitive life of the world; it is an 
educational environment  withdrawn 
j from active life, a place where ideals 
| count. College does not afford a dij rect preparation for a vocation. Colj lege is not a place to shape lives; the 
! individual must shape his own."
win battles is uninteresting to me. 
, The man in the trenches was the big 
i man in the war. You had good gen
erals in the war, and we/ too, but they 
j are not outstanding personalities."
| What is your measure of greatness, 
Dr. Ludwig was asked. "The fight 
of a man with his own weaknesses, 
and his fight with the world. One of 
the greatest men who ever lived had 
no success In the worldly sense, 
Jesus. But he had success.
During his visit to this country, Dr. 
Ludwig hopes to see Thomas A. Edi
son and John D. Rockefeller, and re
garding Rockefeller, lie said:
Perhaps lie may open Ills lips, so 
I that I may understand him. To the 
| biographer the natural scientist and 
the Inventor are the,- outstanding fig
ures of the day. They are typical of 
j this epoch, not only in the United 
States, but all over the world. I know 
I a little about Edison, because I have 
| read about him. But the key to his 
I understanding is to see him.
| Dr. Ludwig came to the United 
States to make a transcontinental 
j tour. It is his first visit to American 
i shores. With what little time he has 
j at his disposal he is to assemble ma
terial for a book on some distinguished 
j American. Who this is to be is not 
j known.
C. S. M.
Darwin may have been right. That 
is, on the matter of the struggle.for 
existence. We should like to offer an 
amendment, however, to the effect 
that today, we are confronted no lon
ger by a struggle for existence, but 
rather by a struggle for persistence. 
To those for whom nice distinctions 
have no appeal, we suggest that they 
go no further in the reading of this 
squill. . .
These first few sentences contribute 
an instance in point. Those who re
ceive the laurels, (and the sugar 
incidentally), today are those who 
have the ability to stand the wear and 
tear. The struggle is no longer that 
of a battle between individuals vari
ously endowed with capacities in 
which tlie superior one emerges tri
umphant. It is rather a process of 
attrition, whereby those who are 
gifted=*wiOi greater resistance power 
and sheer stamina are able to carry 
off the prizes. For instance, , those 
among you who have a larger fund of 
patience will be able to survive this 
essay, and thereby achieve some 
measure of enlightenment whereas 
those -who falter by the wayside will 
be just that deficient in qualitypoints when the day of judgment ar
rives. And this does by no means 
imply that the faithful plodders are 
necessarily the most, brilliant or the 
most capable of all the readers. They 
may have fallen away at the end ot 
the first paragraph.
There is a tremendously vital sig
nificance to this principle, for it is 
our contention that many of the ills 
from which societ3r suffers today are 
ascribable to this malignant 'disorder, 
by which a premium is put upon mere 
quantitative pluck, obduracy, callous
ness, animal spirits. The emphasis 
is therefore not upon quality and 
subtlety of individual differences but 
upon a bald overplus of physical and 
nervous robustness.
To illustrate, consider the various 
endurance. contests '(vhic.li have come 
to occupy the public eye recently. 
One' of the most popular of these is 
the marathon dancing contests. Young 
folks deliberately come prepared to 
shuffle and amble for long wearisome 
hours, while the multitude gapes in 
open-eyed marvel and astonishment. 
All the breathless excitement of the 
refreshment, the revivification, the 
outward signs of those who are found 
deficient in limber foot-muscles provides amusement and education for 
the great commonalty. And the vic
tors, who emerge somewhat delapi
dated are nevertheless hailed as fine 
flowers of manhood and Contracts all 
filled down to the dotted line await 
them. For we appreciate talent and 
expect to pay homage to those who 
can brook the ordeal. And if most of 
us are too busy and self-engrossed to 
acknowledge the fortunate superior 
stock of the land, we can at least de
pend upon the fact that the tabloid 
sheets will not be derelict in this so
cial duty.
There are also those great spirits.
i the fiag-pole sitters. No hosannas 
nor strewing of flowers along his path 
| greets the champion as he dismounts 
! from his lordly perch perhaps, blit the 
j public press does manage to devote 
j columns upon columns to the depic
tion of the. valiant feat he has ac
complished. We should all .experience 
a thoroughgoing elevation of the pub
lic, pride at the mention of the name 
of this .worthy individual and nations 
| should be encouraged to enter their 
respective champions into the lists to 
determine once and for ail, which 
among the races is destined by fate 
to rule the land and the seasand 
the flag-poles.
j Do not overiooK or despise the low! ly but stalwart pie-eaters. In the first 
j flush of adolescent cynicism who is 
not liable to depreciate the services 
I of the man who has braved all the 
I gastronomic terrors to display his prej eminence in this field of human 
prowess? Yet that individual who 
j has conquered in this field has given 
I witness of the fact that the glory of 
I the ancient gourmands and guzzlers 
has not altogether disappeared from 
the life of today. And. the glorifica
tion of the successful champion pieeater is but another evidence of the 
fact that life can hold little solace for 
those who merely nibble at our cul
ture. In the struggle for persistence 
only those will be selected out as, this 
example demonstrates conclusively, 
who have the superior capacities and 
faculties.
In various other noble ways, the 
process confronts us. There is no 
person no matter how lowly .the sta
tion of life which happens to be his, 
who cannot ascend to eminence if 
there is within him the ability to 
stand up under the monotony and 
grind of modern life. Some day, per
haps, some brilliant philanthropist 
will serve the public welfare magnificiently by offering to decorate that 
neglected genius who has waited the 
longest for a street car or who has 
stood on his feet the longest consecu
tive period in a street car. Or, per
haps, a reward should be accorded to 
the person who has attended the 
greatest number of consecutive, per
formances of his favorite movie-palace. This certainly would be an un
deniable evidence of stamina and per
sistence. Last but not least a sug
gestion is hereby made that someone 
come forth and offer a medal, or rib
bon, or cup, or contract on the Stan
ley circuit for that talented person 
who has read all the contributions so 
I far printed under , the rather misleadj ing caption under which this appears.
For it is certain that the nervous 
I tension, the quick tempo and the 
| staccato succession of events in mod
ern life call upon those of us who have 
| an abundance of downright physical 
j pluclc and stamina which will- enable 
j us to resist fatigue, boredom and the 
impersonal grind of life. Hail to the 
champion marathon dancers, fiag-pole 
sitters, pie-eaters column-readers and 
the rest of that noble crew. Their 
lives are worthy of imitation.
NATHAN MILLER.
Dr. Little of Michigan Defends Viewpoint
Of College Students Concerning Religion
1 McGill University.Dickens did not 
j intend his unfinished book, Edwin 
j Drood to end with the death of that
 character, stated Dr. Stephens .Lea
cock, in a lecture before the Womens 
j Guild of Christ Church Cathedral in 
j the 'S'ynod Hall. Treating of Dickens, j 
| he said it was not in the nature of j 
Dickens to end a^ story with a death.
I am quite convinced that, however, 
Edwin Drood was saved, and that he 
is just as much alive today as is Mr. 
Pickwick.
Turning to other of Dickens books, 
Dr. Leacock said that very few people 
know the true story of Dora in David 
Copperfield, in which Dickens im
mortalized his own blighted romance 
in what the lecturer described is the 
finest picture of love at first sight 
ever painted. The sequel to his own 
early love affair is contained in a 
book assembled in 1912, where it was 
shown that the heroine of the novel
ists romance returned to England, 
widowed, fat and fifty, and the disil
lusionment of the meeting is revealed. 
It ended with Dickens writing his lost 
Dora refusing to lend her twenty 
pounds.
The story of Dickens visit to Amer
ica and his resultant conversion from 
republican ideas, was told. No man, 
not even Lafayette, ever received such 
an enthusiastic reception in the United 
States as that which was given Char
les Dickens. He found America crude 
and covered with tobacco stains. He 
could not see that its crudeness would 
lead to a reaction in the opposite di
rection, and that people who used to
Prjnceton, N. J.Declaring his be
lief that the-youth of today are more 
Godly and nearer the truth about re
ligion than we of the older genera
tion are, Dr. Clarence  C. Little, 
president of the University of. Michi
gan, brought to a close the two-day 
conference held here by university 
and college presidents to consider 
Religion Among College Men.
There is^ little difference between 
dogmatists, whether they are found 
in the physical laboratory or in the 
pulpit, of a too highly organized 
branch of the Christian church, he 
said. The modern' generation are 
discerning enough to recognize this 
fact. They do not take to dogmatism 
naturally, or at all, for that matter, 
unless forced to through fear or au
thority.
It is a well-known fact that stu
dents today do not stay with denomi
national Christianity. Why is this? 
What is there about the church that 
forces them to seek a change? 
Academic Issues Pall.
 In the first place, Dr. Little con
tinued, many sections of the church 
devote their time to debating, aca
demic questions, such as the infalli
bility of the Bible. The only answer 
to such questions seems to be I dont 
know,  he continued. But the 
churches persist in fighting over a 
dry boiie, and the youth of today rec
ognize this.
They realize that Jesus didnt 
spend his time on earth criticizing 
the prophets who had gone before 
him, but in doing thingsin meeting 
practical problems of his day.
Insofar as the younger genera
tion refuses to bow the knee blindly 
to authority, I feel that they are in 
a sense at least living independent
spiritual lives of their own. They 
are not godless. I think they are 
nearer the truth about religion than 
we are.
According to the group of educa
tors and religious leaders, taking 
part in the conference, college wor
ship is faced by four main difficul
ties: Inertia and laziness on the
parts of both undergraduates and 
faculty; religious ignorance; lack of 
experience oh the part of students 
; in religious worship; and. lack of 
proper training on the part of many 
of the leaders of college chapel serv
ices.
Improvements Proposed.
Recommendations for remedying 
these conditions included the more 
j careful selection of religious and 
j chapel leaders, better co-operation 
I with the students of the university, 
the use of buildings of proper aesthetic 
! appeal and of hymns that are npt out 
, of date, and the arrangement of religi ious services in an organized man! ner.
I Another group recommended that 
religion be added to the curriculum 
! of the university and taught by men 
j who could command the respect of 
! the students and who have had suffiI cierit experience to understand the 
I student point of view, and that the 
j courses, though not compulsory. 
, should be recognized with equal acaI demic credit.
j In order to be really effective, a 
! report from the group commissioned 
j to study the problem of religion and 
; extracurricular activities stated, re
ligious education should have a lab
oratory, as it were, in which the 
ideas obtained in the classroom and 
chapel could be applied. Extracur
ricular activities should furnish this 
opening.
spit in 1842 would become the clean
est yi the world in 1928. Their per
petual boasting the We like to be 
cracked up attitude exasperated 
Dickens.
Madison, Wis. (IP) The famous 
Muir study-clock has been partially 
reconstructed and placed in the State 
Historical Museum here.
Muir, who was a student at the 
University of Wisconsin from 1860 to
1S64, constructed the machine from 
odds and ends and used it to regulate 
his study hours.
It is so constructed that a clock is 
det to allow a certain amount of time 
for the study of each course. When 
the time is up a large cog-wheel col
lapses, the book falls through 'to its 
regular position, and another is 
brought up to take its place. The 
process is repeated with each book, 
until all have been studied.
