cA MERRY XMAS cAND HAPPY NEW YEARj TO YOU
CLASSES RESUME 
8:30 THURSDAY, 
JANUARY 3
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
AND A 
HAPPY NEW YEAR
VOL. XVIII. NO. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1923
MANAGERS TO 
BE SELECTED 
BY NEW PLAN
Athletic Council to Consult 
Coaches and Players in 
Making New Choice; Irwin 
Chosen Baseball Coach
GRAPHICA CHRISTMAS CARDS 
COMPLETED: CALL FOR THEM
COLLEGIATE DANCE TO 
BE GIVEN TO STUDENTS
HERE OVER CHRISTMAS
DYKEMAN REWARDED
The Athletic Council at its meet
ing last Wednesday decided to put a 
new plan into effect for the selection 
of varsity managers. Hereafter the 
opinions of the coaches and players 
will be heard before a choice is made. 
The council elected its officers for 
1924 and appointed its standing com
mittees.
Hugh Sprinkle was retained as 
-Freshman football coach, and A1 Ir'win was chosen baseball mentor for 
this spring. Howdy Dylceman was 
unanimously voted a major G in 
recognition of his placing second in. 
the Inter-collegiate Cross Country 
Run at Van Cortlandt Park.
A large committee was named to 
return to the Athletic Council its pref
erence for next seasons football man
ager. The committee consists of Wally Steffen, Dr. Marks, Buddy Overend, 
Jimmy Robertson, Ed Gilbert, Bert 
3YIunhall, Pat Ryan, and the members 
of the varsity squad. The judgment 
of all the members will be considered, 
and the majority opinion will form the 
recommendation to the Council.
Dissatisfaction among students and 
players with some managerial selec
tions in times past when the graduate 
-and student managers were the only 
ones consulted is responsible for the 
-adoption of the new plan. The same 
procedure was followed in the man
ner of deciding upon next yeais cross(Continued on Page Two.)
Plans for Womens 
Prom Are Complete
Rainbow Serenaders Engaged 
Favors Are Selected
The Social Committee, of the Junior 
class of Margaret Morrison now have 
definite results to show for their earn
est work of the last few weeks. The 
arrangements for the Prom have been 
completed and if the plans already 
made are carried out, this Prom will 
indeed be a credit to the class and its 
-committees.
The Rainbow 'Serenaders from Al
toona, Pennsylvania, are going to fur
nish the music. They have an excel
lent reputation as entertainers and 
are expected to do some unusual and 
novel things to make every moment 
of the Prom memorable.
The favors have also been selected, 
and the girls who are in on the secret 
are very enthusiastic and mysterious 
about them. They will only say that 
both the men and women are going 
to be delighted with them and that 
they will be useful, as well as attract
ive.
Since every available dollar of the 
class treasury will be needed , to stage 
the Prom, other means have been de
vised to increase the funds besides 
the payment of class dues and the 
Prom assessment itself. Last Friday, 
the Junior girls held a cake and candy 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Maj. McBride Inspects 
Carnegie Unit R. 0. T. C.
Major Allan C. McBride, F. A., TJ. S. 
A., inspected the R. O. T. C. Wednes
day the twelfth. Major McBride is 
the officer in charge of R. O. T. C. af
fairs in the Third Corps Area with 
office at Baltimore, Md. The Major 
stated that he had no criticism to 
make of the R. O. T. C. at Carnegie. 
He was favorably impressed with the 
improvements in classrooms, labora
tories and the target gallery, and 
commented particularly on the excelelnt facilities now available for the 
Motor Transport Corps Unit. _________
All Graphica Christmas cards are 
now ready for delivery and can be se-1 
cured in the Printing Department, 122 I 
Industries. No cards will be mailed 
unless specified at the time of pur- j 
chase.
The sale of cards amounted to some 
fourteen hundred dozen, which will 
put quite a sum of money in the prin
ters treasury for use on their an
nual inspection tour next Easter.
DEAN OF MEN GIVES 
IDEAS ON BANQUET
Student Council Changes the
* Rules Governing 
Banquet
By A. W. TARBELL
Tlierfe has been considerable feeling 
on the campus of late, not only among 
the faculty but among those students 
who give thought to such matters, 
that interference with classes by ac
tivities has reached a point where at
tention is required.
No one, so far as I know, begrudged 
time out for the 7-2 celebration. 
That was regarded sympathetically as 
a sort of special privilege that went 
automatically with seventeen years, of 
patient waiting. Still, it made in
roads on the schedule, and other 
lapses are mounting. The tendency 
involved is unquestionably in the 
wrong direction.
All this loss of time means several 
things, some of which, I am certain, 
are not adequately understood by 
many students. It means first, a con
stant threat against the survival of 
the Freshman. Under the best cir
cumstances, a large number of them 
have difficult enough time in carrying 
their work. Add to this a lack of op
portunity to consistently concentrate 
on studies because of inter-class dis
turbances, involuntary absence from 
classes, participation in athletics, 
part-time employment, or some other 
reason, and the damage is done 
Freshman mortality is quite as often 
due to these causes as to lack of 
scholarship capacity. In permitting 
the new recruit to unwarrantably 
lose out on these grounds, the 
strength in the upper ranks is serious
ly curtailed, and the number of our 
graduates reduced: It may be said
that the very progress and ' prestige 
of the Alma Mater herself are thus 
always at stake. No industrial organ
ization can expect a satisfactory pro
duction record that countenances 
waste of raw material. The conserva
tion of the Freshman is always one 
of the very first of our duties. Fac
ulty advisors, monthly reports, the 
Y Senior-Freshman Councilor Plan, 
and, this year, a special dean for 
Freshmen, are some of the measures 
taken to help the first-yea? men, but 
to, achieve any degree of success in 
the undertaking the co-operation of 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Girls Glee Club to 
Sing for Radio Fans
Dizzy 8 Orchestra of M. M. 
Play at Heinz House
The Girls Glee Club, the opening 
number on the program at the Guild 
Carnival, presented one of the most 
interesting features of that evening. 
The procession of the Boars Head 
was picturesque and unusual, and the 
Christmas carols added a touch of 
charm to the Yule-tide celebration.
The Glee Club will hold its first 
public concert on January 11 at the 
KDKA Broadcasting Station. The 
concerts given over the radio last year 
proved so popular that several re
quests have been made that the Glee 
Club again entertain the KDKA audi
ence. Another public appearance will 
be made in the latter part of January, 
when the club will give a church con
cert in Brushton.
The Dizzy Eight, the snappy orch
estra of the Junior Maggie Murphs, 
played last Friday evening for the 
Cosmopolitan Club dance at the Heinz 
House. Quite a large crowd attended 
the dance and showed great appre
ciation of the orchestras efforts.
Mens Dormitories Markedly Disrupted 
Maiden Penetrates Mens Domiciles
Many students remaining in Pitts-! 
burgh over the holidays will be I 
pleased to hear that the annual j 
Christmas Inter-Collegiate dance will i 
again be held this year. As has been 
the custom the dance will be given in 
the Hotel Schenley ball room, under 
the auspices of a joint committee com
posed of representatives from Penn 
State, Pitt, W. & J. and Carnegie.
Art Giles Collegiate Six orchestra 
has been secured to provide the mu
sic.
The assessment this year has been 
set at three dollars which is extreme
ly low for a function of this char
acter.
All college students in Pittsburgh 
are invited to the affair which will be 
held Monday, December 31. Dancing 
will start at nine and last till two.
SCHOOL BUYS 
VALUABLE LAND 
ON FORBES ST.
MUSICAL CLUBS 
FIRST CONCERT
Glee and Mandolin Clubs Plan 
Concerts and Dances for 
Coming Year
The Mens Musical Clubs' opened 
their season last Friday evening, De
cember 14, with a concert in the Kittanning High School. This concert 
began a series of concerts which are 
scheduled as follows: Saturday, De
cember 15, at the Corry High School; 
Monday, December 17, at the Erie 
High School, and Tuesday, December 
18th, at North East High School. 
Many more concerts are planned for 
the first part of next year because of 
the unusual merit of the combined 
program of the Glee and Mandolin 
clubs.
The men selected for their out-oftown concerts number about 40, the 
number being almost evenly divided 
between the singers and the stringers. 
The following men of the Glee Club 
are making the trips: First tenor,
Messrs. Cole, Goughnor, Harris, Karcli 
and LeBaron; second tenor, Messrs. 
Dixon, Gickirig, Lundquist, Sload and 
Witmer; baritone, Messrs. Delo, L. 
I-Ienreux, McCready, Reynolds, and 
Stiminler; and bass, Messrs. Dulino, 
I-Ioen, Loughey and Rae. Mr. Van 
Wye is the accompanist.
This year the Mandolin Club con
sists of the following players: First
mandolin, Messrs.. Lyman and Sack; 
second mandolin, Mr. Cavon; banjo, 
Messrs. Hughes and Pelican; guitar, 
Messrs. Mitchell and Aleshin; bass, 
Mr. Putt; first violin, Messrs. Ma
thias, and Bitler; second violin, Mr. 
Wendtland; piano, Mr. Barvoots; 
trombone, Mr. Roth; drums, Mr. Mil
ler, 'cello, Mr. Funkliousor; snxo: 
phones, Messrs. Vogt and Huster; 
trumpets, Messrs. Poluinbo and Lockard.
The Friday night dances in the Un
ion under the auspices of the Musical 
Clubs have beon well attended. At 
present, interest is so keen in these 
affairs that tho Musical Clubs are 
planning to announce tho dates of eoveral other dances to be held In the 
near future.
NIGHT SCHOOL STUDENTS 
HOLD ANNUAL SMOKER
New Purchase Adds to Cam
pus, Giving School Nearly 
All of Forbes Between the 
Cut and Woodlawn Ave.
Perhaps they had no bananas,' and 
perhaps they had no spoons for the 
ice cream and coffee but they had a 
good time. The men in the 'night 
classes of the Electric Equipment and 
Construction Department are still 
laughing at the interpretations given 
no bananas when Polesie, a dramat 
from Arts School, let his imagination 
play on the idea of Dr. Bakers, as 
well as several other well known per
sonages, singing of this popular num
ber in his own characteristic way.
It all happened at the annual ban
quet of the night classes of the Elec
tric Equipment and Construction De
partment last Friday evening in the 
Faculty club rooms. Classes dismissed 
after the first hour, it was not long 
before each man was contributing his 
share of smoke to the general thick
ening of the atmosphere. Mr. F. C. 
Ashe, Acting Head of the Electric 
Equipment and Construction Depart
ment, announced the number on the 
program. The fun started when the 
Mickey Trio gave several selections, 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Excitement reigned in the mens 
dormitories Sunday when it was dis
covered that a young lady had decid
ed to make her abode there. The 
customary ennui, usually prevailing 
during holidays, was suddenly disrupt
ed by the shrill intonation of a femin
ine voice and not until late in the 
night was the customary dorm life re
sumed.
Apparently our heroinefor she is 
suchbecame tired of the regime and 
staid existence of the girls' dorms, 
and decided to seek variety by an ex
tended visit to the mens domiciles. 
When the rigid discipline, under 
which she had so long been restrain
ed, was momentarily relaxed Sara 
Louiseher cognomensped hastily 
over Woodlawn and was discovered 
gazing wistfully at Boss Hall by one 
of the residents.
Upon invitation she entered' and
sent the inhabitants scurrying for 
bath robes or other substantial attire. 
The men soon regained confidence, 
and more completely arrayed, pro
ceeded to investigate their fair visi
tor.
Rapidly Gains Popularity.
After a comparatively brief inter
val, everyone was on intimate .terms 
with Sara Louise, and the boys were 
soon taking turns at petting her.
The climax of the day was reached 
when it was unanimously decided 
that Sara Louise needed a shower and 
after vigorous protests upon her part, 
it was administered with speed, 
though with doubtful effectiveness.
A^ gathered around to witness the 
cleansing process and gradually a 
i murmur of disapproval grew until 
! finally the administrator gave voice 
I to say: Gee, what a hell of a
! skinny dog this is. No wonder it ran 
| off from the girls' dorms.
Non-Degree Men Planning 
To Have Basketball Team
NEW BOWL A MYTH
A new addition has been made to 
the holdings of Carnegie by the pur
chase of the old Schwartz property 
on Forbes street by .the Board of 
Trustees at a cost of about eighty 
thousand dollars. The land has long 
been desired, since it is another 
link in our chain of lots from the 
cut to Woodlawn avenue.
Ten thousand dollars of this suiu 
was contributed by the Athletic As
sociation, part was covered by a por
tion of the school funds, while suita
ble arranegemeuts for retiring the rest. 
The property contains Dean Tarbells 
present residence and the frame 
structue occupied by Paul, our noto
rious gardener.
Tho purchase has been contem
plated for some time, in fact it was 
first suggested in 190S when E. M. 
Bigelow, then Director of Public 
Works, journeyed to New York to 
suggest to Mr. Carnegie 1 that ho 
buy the entire land from the Bureau 
of Mines site around to Woodlawn 
avenue. His purpose was to level 
off the hill on the Brown proporty 
and employ the dirt to fill the ra
vine. Mr. Carnegie vetoed this propo
sition on the ground that he be
lieved the city of Pittsburgh should 
undertake to furnish the land for tho 
school since he was providing funds 
for the buildings.
Tho immediate result of this dis
cussion was an additional gift of 
three million dollars to bo oxpondod 
upon enlarging tho school but tho 
land has only been acquired in bits, 
the city buying hut little ground 
after their original appropriation, At 
tho present time the school owns all 
tho property from Forbes Ilall to 
Woodlawn with tho exception of the 
(Continued on Pago Three)
STUDENTS EXPECTING 
TO STAY IN CITY ARE
INVITED TO DINNER
All students living too far from hero 
to go home for Xmas vacation or 
those not going home for some other 
reason, are asked to leave their names 
with Mr. Davis at tho Y. M. C. A. 
office. Arrangements are being made 
to entertain those students and make 
Xmas day as enjoyable to them as 
possible.
The Luthern Student Club is ar
ranging with families of the city to 
entertain a number of tho students. 
Also the Methodist Episcopal church 
will givo a Xmas dinner on Xmas 
evening, to which the students aro 
invited. Those interested will please 
leave your name with Mr. Davis as 
soon as possible, so that reservations 
can be made at tho church. Students 
who desire to dine with private fami
lies should notify tho student club.
Cy Comfort Chairman 
of Campus Week Comm.
Class Tea Dances Must be 
Four School Affairs
Mr. J. H. McKlveen, secretary and 
treasurer of the Greensburg National 
Bank, spoko to twenty-five- members 
of the Non-Degree Association in the 
Union last Thursday evening. Mr. 
McKlveen impressed the men with 
the necessity of securing knowledge 
by their own diligent work rather 
than by asking other men. How
ever, Mr. McKlveen did urge tho fel
lows to seek the advice of exper
ienced men whenever they smarted on 
a new project. Many successful busi
ness men are willing and even glad 
to tell you young men about their 
experiences if you only ask them, 
was Mr. McKlveens closing remark.
Judd Drengwittz of Jeannette, Pa., 
was elected secretary of the Non 
Degree Association to fill the place 
of F. Duncan who resigned. It was 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Cy Comfort 1ms boon clioson chair
man of tho 1924 Campus Woolc Commlttoo by the Student Council at Its 
meeting last week. Gy in addition 
to playing football for four yours and 
serving in several class offices, has 
sorved as sub-chairman on tho 
Campus Week Committee for tho last 
two years. This oxp'erlonco, coupled 
with his popularity on tho campus, 
will fit him admirably for this work.
In tho future ono of a couple- must 
show a registration card boforo be
ing admitted to any Carnegie dance 
This action was made necessary by 
the large number of outsiders who 
have been attending school l*tlances 
in the past. Alumni will bo taken 
care of at the door.
The Social Committee announcod 
that In the future all class tea dances 
must be handled by committees made 
up of representatives of the respec
tive classes in all four schools. Each 
class will be limited to one dance a 
month. This action is in accordance 
with Student Council rules govern
ing tea dances.
The publication of a student direc
tory was approved by the council. 
However, the council will not be 
bound financially in any way by 
this publication.
Considerable time was devoted to 
a discussion of the recent SophomoreFreshman trouble. New rules govern
ing the banquets of these classes 
"will be published soon.
The 13, 14 and 15 of February 
have been approved as the time for 
the Student Friendship Drive. This 
drive will be conducted by Teknon 
Club.
Dr. . Baker was a visitor at the 
meeting. After the meeting Dr. 
Baker entertained the entire council 
in his office. The council takes this 
means of thanking the president for 
the very pleasant social time and the 
delicious refreshments.
DISCIPLINE RULING 
MADE BY COMMITTEE
MISS H. WOODWARD 
RESIGNS POSITION
Gives Up Management of 
Commons After Making 
Many Improvements
It is with much regret that tho 
Carnegie Commons announces the 
resignation of Miss Helen Woodward, 
Manager of the Mon's Cafeteria for 
tho past year. Miss Woodward took 
up her dutlos last year Immediately 
aftoiS, tho Christmas vacation, whon 
the old management under tho Var
sity Clan had glvon up bocauso of in
adequate student support. During 
her tenure of the offlco, many im
provements have boon made, and bo
causo of this tho patronage has lucreasod practically four hundred por 
cont and tho Commons Is woll on its 
way to bocomo a woll-ostabllshod studont cafotorla.
Miss Woodward's popularity among 
hor associates and tho students 
makes It very hard for ovoryono con
nected with Carnogio Teeji to soo her 
leave, and It Is a well-established' 
fact that her placo will bo hard to 
fill satisfactorily.
She has organized tho student holp 
through hor friendliness and fairness 
Into a loyal group of workors, who 
aro at all times doing their very 
best to aid tho management in pro
moting a cafotorla or service for tho 
students. This same group of studont workors has shown Its apprecia
tion of Miss Woodward, by giving 
hor a Christmas prosont.
During hor stay hero, Miss Wood
ward has beon royally ontortalned by 
many dlfforont fraternities, and In 
this connoctlon she has actod as chnporon upon many occasions.
Just who will bo hor succossor is 
as yet unknown, but efforts aro be
ing made to got ono who has had ox* 
porlouco In this lino, and will thoroforo bo ablo to stop right In and 
talco up tho work whore Miss Wood
ward loft off.
It Is hoped that ovorythlng will bo 
ready whou school opens after tho 
(Continuod on Pago Throe)
INTEREST TAKEN IN 
VOLUNTEER MOVEMENT
Tho student body at Carnegie 
should bo proud of tho Interest tliat.ls 
being taken towards tho International 
Voluntoer Movement; that will bo hold 
at Indianapolis, Indiana, beginning De
cember 28, and continuing until Jan
uary 1, 1924. Carnogio Tech Is for
tunate In having fifteen delegates to 
attend this Ninth Student Convention. 
The following representatives have 
registered: Miss Esther Johnson,
Ruth Garbisch, Dorothy Schmalhorst, 
Jane Norn, Mabel McKee, Blair Jessop, Jane Markell, Dean Brown, Mr.
F. C. Iloenniger, A. V. Vern, I-I. E. 
Ashworth, Mat Bastlan, Russel Horn,
E. E. Kerns, and R. V. Davis.
E. E. Kerns is not only represent
ing Carnegie but is the representative 
for the Luthern Student Club of Pitts
burgh.
The delegates had a meeting Thurs
day afternoon, to make more definite 
plans concerning the trip. The rail
way company had an agent present 
and offered reduced rates to the dele
gates. The special train will pass 
through Pittsburgh about 8 p. m. on 
December 27.
XMAS VACATION ENDS WED. 
NIGHT JANUARY 2, AT 12 P. M.
After tho holidays, classes will re
sume on Thursday, January 3, for day 
school and on January 2 for tlvo night 
students.
A count will bo given for all late
comers who are not in class on 
Thursday morning. As ample time is 
allowed after Now Years Day it is 
felt that everyone should return on 
time.
CLANS WILL FETE 
UNDERGRADUATES
Harrisburg, Erie and Buffalo 
to Give Parties During 
Vacation Term
In many of the larger cities there 
aro located a goodly number of Alum
ni, who have organized themselves 
into Carnegie Clans. Among their 
ranks may bo found most of tho Car
negie graduates, who liavo made good 
and who realize what they owo to 
Carnegie.
It is therefore a special privilege, 
whon undergraduates are given an op
portunity to meet those people, and 
such is exactly tho clianco that is 
offered to those Carnogio students 
who will bo spending tlioir vacations 
In any of tho following cltlos: Buf
falo, Erie, Harrisburg and Washing
ton.
In Buffalo, tho party sponsorod by 
tho Alumni will bo In tho form of a 
banquet to bo hold at tho Hotol Touralno. If tho namo lias anything to 
do with It, tho party ought to bo a 
good ono. Decombor 28 Is tho date 
sot for it, and all roads will load to 
Dolaware avonuo, E. Johnson Park, 
whore tho hotol Is located. Thoro will 
bo a spoakor from Pittsburgh. All 
that oxpoct to go, should soo Ray 
lvollor in tho Dopartmont of Printing 
boforo leaving school, but go anyway, 
If you don't soo him. Thoro will bo 
plenty to oat.
In Erlo, tho party will bo miscella
neous. Thoro will bo dancing from 
nine to ono, at tho Rood Hmuio, on 
Docombor 20 which as you know in 
the day after the big food. Most of 
tho students will probably have re
covered by that time, so a lunch. Will 
be sorved at, midnight. This will bo 
tho Ninth Annual Party, and a roal 
success.
Harrisburg Is not to bo outdono by 
thoso crabs for their party will bo 
hold boforo Christmas. To bo spoclllc, Docombor 22 will bo tho day, 
and tho Civic Club, tho plaoo. Mem
bers of tho Clan from Lebanon, York, 
Lancaster, and other noarby towns 
will also bo there, so a big turnout of 
students will bo necessary to bnlanco 
the more sodato Alumni. At 0:30 p. 
m. tho klckoiT will bo mado, and tho 
final whlstlo Is schodulod for midnight. 
Tho affair is announcod as a dinner 
(Continuod on Pago Four.)
Last Chance to Get 
the 1924 Year Book
Organization Photos Must be 
Returned at Once
Believing that tho "best posslblo re
sults were not attained during tho 
sulos campaign of November 13 to 10, 
the Thistle Board has decided that an
other intensive campaign will bo nec
essary. They wish to sell 1,500 cop
ies of the 1924 Thistle.
This campaign, the final 0110 of tho 
year, will begin on January 1 and 
end on January 19. Tho methods to 
be employed in the final canvass will 
be changed materially as compared 
with the previous methods, the change 
tending toward greater efficiency and 
better results.
There is to be a personal solicita
tion of every person in school and 
each will be asked to buy a copy of 
the 1924 Thistle.
This work will be in charge of one 
man in each college. The work will 
be further divided between class lead
ers and class section leaders. In the 
corridors of each college will be 
placed a table and at noon the va(Continued on Page Two.)
NEW HONORARY 
FOR GIRLS HAS 
BEEN CREATED
Pi Delta Epsilon Organizes 
An Honorary Journalistic 
Frat for Women Working 
on Student Publications
9 CHARTER MEMBERS
The hopes, alms and ambitious of 
those Carnogio women who have 
been working on campus publications 
have all boon fulfilled. During the 
past throe years the girls have beon 
doing good work 011 all the various 
publications around school, with 
their reward promised, but far out 
of slight.
Ray Keller's announcement at Gen
eral Assembly that Pi Delta Epsilon 
had organized a: girls honorary came 
as a distinct surprise, but a very 
gratifying 0110.
Tho namo decided upon for the 
now fraternity is Pi Sigma Tau, and 
tho charter members chosen are: 
Jane Markoll, Carol Folglit, Sara 
Mao Everett, Mildred Abel, Anno 
Klrkor, Jerry Perry, Ellen Eymau, 
Peg Welland, Siabollo Davis.
These girls will bo called In Margarot Morrison assembly today, and 
formally pledged. Somotimo after 
Christmas, the Initiation is supposod 
to talco plnco, but as It will bo for
mal, tho girls aro not looking for
ward to a very rough tlmo of it.
Now pledges will bo clioson twice 
a yoar, from among thoso girls who 
liavo worked for two years on ono 
of tho 'school papers. Girls with but 
ono years work to tlioir credit will 
not bo ollglblo for pledging unless 
(Continuod on Pago Throo)
Prom Tickets to be 
Placed on Sale Soon
Plans for Biggest Affair of 
Year Completo
Plans for tho Mon's Junior Prom 
aro rapidly being completed and com
plete details will bo ready for publi
cation Immediately after tho Christ
mas recess. A nationally known orch
estra has l)oen fjocured and reports 
from all (juartors stamp them as tho 
boot musicians that will over have ap
peared at a Carnegie Tech Prom,
Just now tho oommlttoo lir^concen
tra ting Its attention on the salo of 
preliminary tickets which will start 
on tho day school rosumos, Each Junior 
who has paid his Prom assessment 
will receive a recolpt which will cred
it him with $1.50 toward tho prelimi
nary ticket. 1,ho price of this ticket 
will bo $4.00 loss, of course, $1.50 to 
thoso holding rocolpts. Tho commit
tee doclded that after Christmas tho 
financial condition ol! tho avorago stu
dent would bo gonorally hotter than 
at prosont and so sot that timo l'or 
tho sale to accommodato tho Prom 
goors.
TI10 final ticket will bo on salo soon 
after and will be priced at $5.00 to 
thoso holding prelims. Final tlckots 
sold outright will bo at tho regular 
price of $9.00. It Is important to liavo 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
C. W. Beck, 09, Delivers 
Talk Before Civil Seminar
C. W. Bock, Science, 1909, de
scribed the installation of a turn 
table under traffic at the Conway 
Yards of the Pennsylvania Railroad 
before the Carnegie Student Chapter
A. S. C. E., at its weekly meeting. 
Mr. Beck went to the Pennsylvania 
Railroad the year following his grad
uation from Carnegie and has been 
associated with it ever since.
TI10 Increasing size of locomotives 
made it imperative that the seventyfive foot turntalile in use at the Con(Continued on Page Three)
Science Clubs Reorganize 
To Form Science Triangle
On the recommendation of tho Fac
ulty Discipline Committee, the execu
tive hoard of tho Carnegie Institute 
of Technology adopted on December
12, 1923, tho following new discipline 
rule:
No student or groups of students 
shall prevent any student or group of 
students from attending classes, or 
interfere with classes In any way, un
der penalty of suspension not to ex
ceed one year. Effective December
12, 1923.
H. K. KIRKPATRICK, 
Chairman, Discipline Committee.
For several weeks there has been 
a great deal of discussion concern
ing the possibility of combining the 
Science Club of Margaret Morrison 
with that of tho Englneertng School. 
Last Tuesday evening, December 11 
at a 'meeting of tho officers of tin; 
two clubs, It was definitely decided 
that they would unite.
Tho M. M. members and tho onglneorlng members rnet formally last 
Thursday to form tho now organisa
tion. A constitution was adopted and 
It was doclded to call'the now organ
ization the Science Trlanglo because 
Its., members are drawn from tho 
threo departments of Chemistry, 
Physics and Biology. The following 
officers were elected for the coming 
year: President, A. S. Carter; vice
president, Sarah Lee; secretary, Mar
garet McFall; treasurer, Don Gardner.
Tartan Office Filled With Letters
Picking Best Collegiate Petters
By Don Gardner.
Now that the football season has 
been duly embalmed and laid to rest 
amid the plaudits of the multitude, 
the minds of tho observing inhabit
ants turn back to tho more sordid 
things of life. At least that is what 
one who porusos tho daily newspa
pers would infer from tho number of 
contributions printed at random In 
pursuance of that little pastime 
known as "filling space." Everyone 
who has over soon a football or known 
a rnan who usod to play chockors, 
fools that ho 18 competent to pick an 
All-American team that could make 
tho Donlshawn dancers groon with 
envy as far as kick is concorned.
Ever since Walt Camp first doclded 
that he could pick up a few slmoleons 011 the side every year by picking a 
bunch of men from his own college 
on one of these outfits, the idea has 
spread and we have All-American
Ichecker teams, billiard tables, sup- , 
porters, cravats, and now, at last, an j 
All-American petting team. In accord j; 
with tho prevalent procedure every 
person who, it was felt, knew nothing 
whatever about the matter was asked , 
for Ills opinion and, as a result, every 
one submitted a host of material. No 
less famous potters and pot fanciers .jij 
than Mark Anthony, Apollo, Aristotle,: 
and tho math department, have dono 
their part In picking tho toam and 
from where wo sit it looks as though 
olovon Gaby Doslys wouldnt have a 
thing on this bunch.
Ono of tho surprises of tho season 1 
was registered when it was found j j 
tlmt not a Carnogio girl had beenj 
placed among tho elite of the neckro-j 
mancors, but then consolation may be 
hold in tho fact that the judges were: 
old enough in most cases to be grand-.! 
fathers of our little dears and hence* 
(Continued on Page Three)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1923
C&rnsfliE ISbtan
Published every week by undergraduates of! the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.____________
Entered in tho Postofflce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.___________
H. F. SIMPSON ............................................................................................. Edltor-ln-Chlof
Telephone Schenley 9143
W. CUNNINGHAM .............................................................................. Business Manager
Telephone Schenley 9211
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley 0189
FRED C. SMITH....................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS.................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVEIUiJTT ...........................................................................Associate Editor
Tolepliono Sclienloy 9220
MARK S. DOWNES ................................................................................. Associate E< tor
H. II. WILSON ............................................................................................ Associate Editor
W. WINNING .............................................,......................................................... News Editor
Telophono Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI ....................................................................................................... News Editor
Telophono Schonloy 9070
A. S. ANDREWS ................................................................................................................. NowuTelephone Schonloy 9211
H. C. FRAZIER ........................................................................................... Athletic Editor
Telephone Schonloy 9143
A. E. KROGIi........................................................................................................Alumni Editor
R. W. SLEATH ................................................................................................ Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY ....................................................................................... Exchange Ed tor
E. P. COUSE, ............................................................................................................... Arfc EditOr
DON GARDNER ........................................................................................... Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY ..........................................................................Circulation Manager
B. BROUDY ............ ..........................................................Assistant Business Manager
W. M. GIBSON.'......................................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
EBtollo Garibaldi, Elizabeth Jane Gordon, Wilma Stlnor, Carol Foight, 
Margaret McFall. Rosomary M. Cambridge, Nora Willetts, Mary OBrien, 
Aimeo Pharo, Lee Osborn, N. C. Wesei', V. B. Smith, L. H. Harris, E. L. 
Johnson, J. M. Goss, F. L. \Vagnor, F. M. McClelland, J. M. Early, D. M. 
Davidsoni M. W. Gay, F. L. Ford, E. E. Kearns, C. A. Lundquist, E. L.
Kennedy.______________________________________________________________________________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao, a. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Rassbach.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. Samlrock, A. Grodner, E. L. 
Reeves, A. Barb row, A. Perreton,
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; tho
Managing Editor for tho mako up:_________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Blgnaturo will bo withheld if doslrod. All nows Horns must bo in tho student
postoillco before 4:30 Thursday._________________________________
Tartan OlllceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. OIIlco hoursDally 12:30- 1:20._______________________________________
TIS CHRISTMAS TIME
As we pack our suit cases, or trunks, as the case may be, to board 
Hie express train, local, accommodation, or whatnot for Home Sweet 
Home, let us not forget the true spirit of Christmas. Too many of 
us are prone to forget the real meaning of the season, and look at the 
day as a more or less satisfaction of selfish motifs. Too often, one 
hears the expression of: I wonder if lie will remember me.   It is 
regretted that the season has turned into a time for giving and re
ceiving presents, without the fundamental thought of service to man
kind. 'IMie present day should be thankful that there is such an or
ganization as the Salvation Army to always and without fail, keep 
before our eyes this real spirit of Christmas time.
And let us not forget that upon Christmas day, nineteen hun
dred and twenty-three years ago, Jesus Christ was born into the 
.'world in order to save the world. Let us not forget that this day is 
originally a day of religious rejoicing. Lot us not forget of the won
derful sacrifices which .Jesus Christ made throughout his whole earl li
ly life. Let us, whilo remembering these, not only remember, but 
act accordingly, and do some kind act to be of service to thoso who 
are less fortunate than wd.
Let us rein ember that Christmas should be prevailed by a splen
did spirit of unselfish service to mankind, and ill all of us remember 
this Christmas will indeed be worth whilo.
Till-: CLANS ARK FUNCTIONING!
Christmas vacation days brings to our attention the fact that 
Carnogio Tech has a strong alumni organization, with sub-centers 
scattered throughout tho country in many numerous cities. These 
sub-centers are known as CLANS, and are locatod in such represen
tative cities as Akron, Boston, Buffalo, Chicago, Cincinnati, Cleve
land, Dayton, Detroit, Bllwod City, Erie, Harrisburg, Huntington, 
Johnstown, Los Angelos, Now Cast,lo, Now York, Norfolk, Philadel
phia, Pittsburgh, St. Louis, Washington and Youngstown. Aside 
from thoso cities, the Stato of Connecticut; has a state CLAN, and 
Youngstown, boasts of a women's CLAN.
Many of thoso S(inarato organizations are planning entertain 
ments for their members as well us for tho prosont day students who 
happen to bo homo or in its city for tho vacation days. It is tho duty 
of these self same students to attend those fune,lions, and carry back 
to those (LAN members news of all happonings and events on the 
campus. It is their duty to do this because, mainly, of Ilio publicity 
il. will givo Carnogio in that city. It .is good publicity for an alumni 
organization, to awaken itself and make itself known through tho 
medium oJ! entertainments during a. holiday session. Along this lino, 
it. might, bo good to advise thoso same CLANS, who hold those outer* 
I,ammoni not to hesitate in furnishing nows stories for tho local 
newspapers, for by so doing, the name of CABNIDGBS TBOH is raised
 higher as a college with that Something else called spirit, aside from 
its buildings and curricula.
Support the Carnogio Clans in their entertainments during tho 
Christmas holidays I
IS THIS FAIR?
Looking at the matter from the viewpoint of pure business mat
ters, the breaking of a, contract by a certain prominent campus or
chestra to play at the Junior banquet last Saturday was entirely per
missible. But, unfortunately for this same orchestra, there are other 
matters to be brought into the questionthat of fair play to the com
mittee in control of the banquetthat of the' integrity of a contract 
that of its own reputation.
Whichever point of view one desires to take on the matter, there 
still arises the question of: which is right? On one side, the claim 
is made that a notification of the breaking of tho contract was given 
one week before the banquet. Immediately comes the denial of a 
receipt of such a notification bjr the man in charge of entertainment 
at the banquet. But, granting the truth of the former ease, perhaps 
a weeks time is not sufficient for the engagement of another repre, sentative orchestra.
Perhaps the orchestra broke the contract in order to take up a 
more lucrative one, or again, perhaps in order to permit certain mem
bers to make the glee club trip. In the former ease, the opening par
agraph of this article holds and they are due criticism. In the latter 
case, it was plainly their duty to broak tho contract and attend tho 
glee club trip, for, in tho opinion of the Carnegie Tartan, school or
ganizations always lmvo prior claim over class functions.
But, back of tho whole matter lies the question and its answer. 
Was a proper notification givon to the banquot oommittoo V
Along this mattor, tho Carnegie Tartan will bo glad to roeoivo 
and print a reply to this editorial from tho parties ooncornod. But, 
what this paper wants abovo all elso is FAIR PLAY!
MANAGERS TO BE SELECTED
BY NEW PLAN
(Continuod From Pago Ono.) 
country manager. A oommittoo in
cluding Guy Iiulferty and tho har
riers will roport its proforonoo.
John F. Labon was roeloctod presi
dent of tho Council for tho coming 
year. An amendment to tlio by-laws 
passed at the meeting instituted tho 
office of vice president. Dr. Marks is 
the first incumbent. Buddy Overend 
was elected secretary.
A committee was formed to select 
an assistant football coach for 1924. 
The members are Prof. H. S. Hower, 
Pat Ryan, and L. H. Lee.
The councils regular committees
for, tho year wore appointed. A fac
ulty man Is chairman of each, with 
alumni and BtmWit roprosontatlvos 
as mombors. Tho appointments fol
low:
Exooutlvo Commlttoo: Dr. Marks,
chairman; L. 11. Loo, Pat Ryan;
Finance CommlttooDoan Tarbolt, 
chairman; D. A. Casoy, H. E. Dykoman ;
Grounds CommitteeProf. II. S. 
Hower, chairman; Dr. Marks, L. H. 
Lee, O. B. Newman;
Constitution CommitteeProf. H. S. 
Hower, chairman; L. H. Lee, H. E. 
Dykeman.
! SCRAPS 0 PLAID \
, By Mac.
Just to keep you from do/Jng while 
you road this column, we'd like to ask 
If any of tho boys that sleep in for 
8:30's ever thought they would like 
to emulate Rip Van Winkle? We can't 
exactly say that we'd vote aye on it 
because wo suro would miss a lot in 
twenty years. Then, too, some of 
those nights in which wo do forget to 
climb into the doublo-decker before 
tho early hours arewollwell spent. 
How about it?
 Everybody who has over beon on 
the campus of course has heard of the 
Commercials. Heros the latest dope 
on thorn. Not long ago tho Big Chief 
of tho department as much as dubbed 
his own flock "Hodge-podgers, what
ever that means. Wo have also heard 
that a certain one of the graduates 
has boen doing some lubricating en
gineering which must be one of these 
new-fangled professions. Youvo got 
to hand it to the Commercials, 
though. They can get away with 
most anything, even to taking the 
words out of your mouth.
The new system in operation at tho 
Commons seems to have eliminated 
considerable loss of time. The only 
tiling about It is that somehow we 
get the idea that we're boarding a 
train, We can almost hear the con
ductor shouting the stop. Christmas 
vacation is affecting our brain, evi
dently.
Inter - Fraternity - Dormitory basket 
ball is again taking form. Tills sea
son should be better and more suc
cessful in every way than the pre
vious season. Langley Lab will see 
the lean lanky boys and the short, 
stubby ones as shining stars of tho 
floor game. And speaking of stars, 
wod like to see the varsity coach 
drop around now and then to give 
them the once over. One sage goes 
so far as to predict that the new ma
terial will present some surprises.
Went over our new gym the other 
day. We lay no claim to an over
abundance of knowledge of construc
tion engineering, but it looks as 
though a majority of our basket ball 
games will be played in the big en-. 
closure.
Last Assembly of 
Year Held Tuesday
Director Curtis Furnishes Il
lustrated Lecture
The general assembly before Christ
mas vacation was held last Tuesday 
at the Music Hall. Dr. Curtis, Diroctor 
of tho Allegheny Observatory deliv
ered a very interesting illustrated lec
ture. Ho showod a number of slides 
concornlng tho experiments that ho 
porformed in Moxico. They showed 
tho massive structures required In tho 
successful operation of tho experi
ments. They wore both Interesting 
and educational. Dr. Curtis not only 
spent, throe yoars in tho Southern 
Hornisphere performing astronomical 
experiments, but; has boon working 
along that lino all his lifo. After tho 
last slide was shown It was thought 
that Assembly wns dlnmissod, but 
vory much to (lie surprise of the stu
dent, body, whom do you think camo 
stringing In on the stage? Tho 
Maggie Murpli Stringers. Wo know 
that they could play and no doubt 
they have boon wanting to boforo tills 
but were only too timid, and insisted 
that; they should bo coaxed. Novortholess It was proved that they can 
produce good musio.
After tho announcements and tho 
singing of Dear Old Tech tho as
sembly was dismissed.
LAST CHANCE TO
GET 1923-24 YEAR, BOOK
(Continued From Pago 1) 
rious sales representatives will be 
on duty. The board is very optimistic 
over tho possibilities of tliis'plan.
There is yet a message to those 
Who have failed to turn in tlioir pho
tographs. January 15, 1924, will be 
the last day upon which individual 
photographs will be accepted.
This notice applies also to 1 the 
members of those organizations hav
ing composite pictures iu the Thistle. 
These organizations include Tau Beta 
Pi, Mortar Board, Alpha Tau, Tau 
S'igma Delta, C" Club, and staffs of 
various publications.
PITTSBURGH PROUD 
OF STUDENT BANDS
A miss is not always as good as 
her smile.
Bucknellian.
The following article was takeii 
from the official organ of the Musi
cians Club of Pittsburgh in their De
cember issue of the Musical Fore
cast.
Pittsburgh is justly proud of the 
academic standing and athletic prow
ess of her institutions of higher learn
ing, but. she has been somewhat tardy 
in realizing that in other activities as 
well, tlioy are tho peers and, not Infre
quently, tho superiors of tho great 
sohools of the country. Such a reali
zation must, have come to the spec
tators who thrbnged Forbes Field at. 
tho recent, game botwoon tho toams 
of the University of Pittsburgh and 
tho Carnegie institute of Technology; 
for no small portion of tho days on* 
joymont, was contributed by tho un
dergraduate musicians of tho two in
stitutions.
Pittsburghers, for tho first time, 
had an opportunity to soo and hoar 
two of the largest, best uniformed, 
and most thoroughly trained student 
bands of Amorica in friendly rivalry 
and in that exchange of amenities 
which characterizes tho sportsman
ship of our student citizens. That 
Pittsburgh was pleased goes without 
saying. What other city of the land 
can boast two such organizations? All 
honor to the lads who play and to 
the alumni and faculties who have 
made that playing possible.
The League of Youth 
Is Splendidly Cast
Ibsens Play Enthusiastically 
Received and Admired
LCLUB MEETINGS
COMMERCIAL CLUB
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
Tho "League of Youth is a play 
seldom soon on the professional stage. 
The reason Is not so clear after its 
successful performance here. One 
fools that almost any audience might 
enjoy such a play, and /ill a paying 
house. But that is to tho credit of 
the producer and actors rather than 
of the play itself. As one reads it, it 
seems a confused and not very like
able play, redeemed only by flashes 
of Ibsens still not fully matured gen
ius. This is the earlier work of an 
epoch making dramatist.
The canvas is overcrowded. The 
reader fairly loses trace of the char
acters, and almost of the action at 
times. After all, producers can 
scarcely be blamed for leaving this 
play for tho most part severely alone 
and giving us the later ones, such as 
the Dolls House and I-Iedda Gabler, 
with their great woman star roles. 
But for a student of Ibsen's work the 
play has great Interest. There is a 
humor in it which goes very deep into 
the roots of human folly and weak
ness, and which, however farcical its 
expression, retains always a grim 
truth. And already one can see the 
later greater characters taking shape 
in Ibsen's mind. What is Selma but 
a sketch for Nora?
The Department of Drama gave an 
illustration of what producer and ac
tors can do to overcome the defects 
and bring out the meaning of a play. 
The scenery and costumes, interest
ing in themselves, served to create 
an atmosphere and assist in the char
acterization. The actors shaded their 
parts carefully, giving humanity to 
even the most slightly sketched fig
ures, sharpening the' clash and con
trast of personalities and bringing out 
tho comedy to its fullest extent. With 
rare discrimination the producer kept 
the whole interpretation just this side 
of hokum. There was farce, broad 
farce at times, but the intellectual 
quality of the mirth was never lost.
Where so much of the merit of the 
play was in the mass effect, in the in J 
telligent and artistic humor of an en
tire cast, it is difficult to single out 
individuals for special comment. But 
John Beistels delightful old busybody 
of a Daniel Iieire and Verner Halden 
as the suave old fox Lundestad were 
very subtle bits of true comedy which 
would have been remarkable any
where.
Paul McGrath conveyed admirably 
the really fine dignity of the Cham
berlain, and Arvld S'. Crandall gave 
the cringing quality of Alaksen, 
mean and poverty stricken, a starv
ing cur whom everyone kicks, with 
a realism which made the man, as he 
would bo in life, tragic as well as 
comic, pathetic as well as repulsive. 
Philip Thorn as Stensgard very wise
ly ompliasized the real charm and vi
tality of the man, without which his 
apparent success through the first 
throe acts Avould be incredible. Tho 
women's parts aro slightly written, 
compared with the great women of 
Ibsens later plays, and were little 
nioro than a charming background. 
Harriot Walker by clover characteri
zation lifted Mmo. Rundliolmen into 
ono of tho significant comedy rolos.
Last Tuesday the Commercial Club 
room on the fourth floor of the College-of Engineering was the scene of 
one of the livest smokers ever held 
by that organization. It was remin
iscent of their gatherings of previous 
years.
First on the program was a short 
talk by Dr. Ritlman on the human 
and commercial elements of a well 
I rounded education. He also pointed 
I out the fact that Carnegie was the 
first educational institution in the 
country to establish a combination enI gineering and commercial curriculum. 
This has since been copied by many 
other well known schools.
A short talk by Professor Follows, 
on what a' commercial engineer is, 
was greeted with much applause. A 
short business meeting was held durwliicli the newly formed constitution 
was read and approved. The discus
sion on the design of an emblem 
brought forth much laughter in con
nection with the significance of each 
symbol.
Entertainment by Broudy on a saw, 
with Harris at the piano brought 
forth generous laughter and applause.
Announcement of the next meeting 
to be held sometime in January was 
made. The activities came to a close 
with a brief, snappy story by Pro
fessor Beebe of the Economics De
partment, and eats.
CHINESE STUDENTS CLUB
The Chinese Students. Club of Pitts
burgh will give a Christmas Social 
on December 21, at 8 oclock in Heinz 
House on the University of Pitts
burgh Campus. The faculty members 
are cordially invited to attend the soj cial.
I A special feature of the program 
will be a Chinese play, written and 
directed by S. Y. Yui, a student of 
! drama, with Miss Nellie Quil playing 
j the part of leading lady.
This week will see the exodus of j 
more than a thousand Carnegie men 
and women, each to his or her re
spective home. It is a season for re-1 
joicing and general happiness and no j 
considerations should be allowed to 
detract froni that' feeling; yet. It 
might be worth while to reflect that 
now as we go home we go with the 
stamp of Carnegie upon us.
Not long ago a rich man in a small 
mid-western town was asked to aid in 
the endowment of a nearby university. 
He refused, and centered his reasons 
upon the statement that colleges of 
today are turning out a product that 
has no balanced ideas and sense of 
values. In the opinion of this man, 
the high school product should be en
couraged to go into the factories and 
on the farm. Too many men, he says, 
are working toward the professions 
with the result that these same pro
fessions are becoming filled to over
flowing with quacks. The closing 
statement of our friend was that the 
average college man seems to be 
equipped for the pursuit of something 
though he does not know what, and 
that in many cases a long ilfe does 
not offer him the solution.
They remind me, he says, of the 
farmer who one night had a dream 
in which the letters P. C. seemed to 
have been written in the sky. He 
hastened to dispose of his farm, an 
hurried to the nearest theological 
seminary, there telling the president 
of his dream and interpreting the 
mystic letters to mean Preach Christ. 
To his astonishment the reverend gen
tleman did not get at all surprised 
at this marvelous revelation, but in
stead quietly asked:
Are you sure, that P. C. does not 
rather mean Plow Corn?
Let us not forget that no mans di
ploma is a guarantee of worth. The 
world demands proof, and one must
show that he has had more than a. 
vision calling him into his chosen-i 
line.
Knowledge is a queer thing. To 
trifle with it is dangerous. The rea
son and the only reason for Pleberegulation is that too often high 
schools will turn out a product that 
has the same high notions of itself 
that our midwestern friend accuses 
college men of having.
As we go home now, let us not for
get that we dont know as much as. 
we ought to know considering the 
opportunities we have had. In fact 
it would not be at all surprising if. 
some of the people in Beltsville know 
more about the business of making: 
a life than we will ever know about 
the business of making a living.
Tlioreau said: We might well
consider our villages as our univer
sities, and their elder inhabitants astheir fellows, with leisure, if they are 
so fortunate, to devote the rest of 
their lives to liberal studies.
As we go out, let us be proud that 
we are from Carnegie, but let us alsoremember that there is a lot of wis
dom in this world that can never be 
learned inside the walls of a univer
sity. For the Good of Carnegie, let 
us advertise our school and let theworld know that we have learned 
something besides the cannon-ball 
yell. Keep within the bounds of 
reason, and remember that an empty 
barrel thunders most.
Yours, For The Good of CarnegieM. M. SCIENCE CLUB
Commercial Dept, to Bands May view Concert 
' Make Power Survey Is Eniyecl by Audience
Last Friday afternoon the M. M. 
Science Club entertained the Science 
Faculty with a Christmas party in the 
little lab. The lab was decorated 
in red and green, the center of at
traction being a lovely tree glittering 
with ornaments and lights, and load- j 
ed with gifts for everyone. And won
der of wonders! Santa Claus came 
down the chimney, distributed the 
presents and made merry with the 
! crowd.
The gifts were the source of many 
laughs as they were very appropriate, 
being chosen with regard to the es| pedal weaknesses and hobbies of the 
recipients. Merry talk and interest
ing games made the time fly until re! freshments were served. All left with j a distinct Christmas feeling, usually 
found only on December twenty-fifth.
Rittman and Sumner Head 
Pinchot Commission
Carnegie Men Address 
Smoker Held by Miners
The ,Go-operative Mining Courses 
hold tlioir first soml-nnnual smoker at 
tho Bureau of Minos last Thursday 
evening. Tho primary purpose of tho 
smoker was to got all tho men ac
quainted with each otlior and to pro
mote intorest in the coal mining 
courses.
The speaker for the ovonlpg gavo 
vory interesting and educational 
talks. J. T. Ryan, vice president of 
tho Mines Safety Appliance Company 
spoke of Ills study of conditions in 
England, Belgium and France and 
compared them with conditions in this 
country.
A. Brosky, M. E. graduate of 1920, 
spoke on Mechanical Loading of 
Coal. C. W. Nelson, M. E. 1923, now 
research fellow, spoke on "Efficiency 
In Blasting Coal. Crawford C. Wil
son gave hs opinions on Benefits I 
Derived from the Two-Year Mining 
Course.
A very large number of the stu
dents and faculty attended the 
smoker.
NON-DEGREE MEN PLANNING 
TO HAVE BASKET BALL TEAM
(Continued From Page One.) 
also noted to have a Non-Degree bas
ket ball team and to hold regular 
weekly meetings on each Monday 
at noon. Coffee and hot dogs were 
served and the evenings entertain
ment was brought to a successful 
close by guitar and. piano selection's 
by three dormitory men.
New Improvements 
On Campus in Spring
Cement Pavement to Take 
Place of Boardwalk
iCampus improvements lias for 
many years been a subject for dis
cussion, but until last spring the 
discussion was the beginning and 
end of the whole thing. At the end 
of last semester much progress was 
being made in improvements on tho 
campus.
cno or the first things to come to 
our attention was tho imp'rovment 
of tho cut, together with tho branch 
cut down to Margaret Morrison, 
Arts and the liut. That branch cut 
was a blessing. Many a weary step 
hap it saved .the poor "Maggie 
Murphs. Again we could not help 
noticing the improvement made, on 
the terrace at the tennis court, tho 
rough uukept mud hills always have 
been unpleaslng. The terrace at the 
back of the Arts building have also 
added greatly to the appearance of 
Woodlawn avenue.
But the best is yet to come. The 
boardwalk at the upper end of the 
cut, and the one down to Machinery 
Hall will soon be done away with. 
Next spring a whole new steam line 
is going to be run from Machinery 
Hall to the new Gym and the boys 
dorms, and for that reason, the 
board walk must remain until that 
time when it will be dug up. After 
the new line has been laid a cement 
walk will be run down to Machinery 
Hall and the boardwalk between 
Science and the Library will also be 
changed to a cement walk.
Colonel Fairies-, Superintendent of 
Grounds, has consulted several of the 
classes which have graduated con
cerning the planting of class trees 
along this new walk. The alumni 
seemed to like the suggestion and 
we feel sure that the undergraduate 
classes would like to see their name 
plate on pretty shade trees around 
the campus.
In the Dormitories
Hall
Forbes Hall.........
Mol Ion Hall...........
Mellon Hall...........
5004 Forbes...........
r,072 Forbes...........
13080 Forbes..........
5090 Forbos...........
5133 Woodlawn.. 
5148 Woodlawn.. 
5147 Woodlawn.. 
lillil Woodlawn..
5150 Forbes...........
5137 Woodlawn.. 
51*11 Woodlawn.. 
(Dining Hall and 
5125 Woodlawn..
GIRLS DORMITORIES 
Phone Chaperons
.Schonloy 9079. Mrs. Frances P. Weaver...
Schenley 90(13. Miss Francos King................
Schonloy 9117. Miss Ethel Foldkircliner...
Schonloy 9220. Miss Anna S. Hibbs..............
Sclienloy 9199. Miss Hazol Church McKee. 
Schonloy 9473. Miss Cecllo Van Steonburg 
Schonloy 9107. Vacant.
Schonloy 9-130. Mrs. Ednali Cranna..............
Schonloy 9*133. Miss Lillian S. Kennedy...
.Schonloy 9114. Miss Harriot Walker...........
Sclienloy 943S. Miss Lydia Heller................
Schonloy 91(12. Miss Edith M. Winchester 
Schonloy 9484. Miss Graco E. Patterson.. 
Sch. 0341-R... Mrs. II. K. Ivirk-Patrlck. 
Infirmary)
Schnly 2513-J.Practice House.
House President 
Grace Moore 
Margaret Coombs 
Ilolen Hinclnnan 
Sara Mae Everett 
Nollo Hambleton 
I-Iolen White
Dorothy Kendall 
Mary Frances Viall 
Elizabeth Lonehan 
.Isabel Sowash 
Mary Steumpfle 
Janet Perry
Commissioned by Governor Pinchot, 
the Commercial Engineering Depart
ment of Carnegie Tech will begin 
shortly to make a power survey of 
the State of Pennsylvania. Dr. W. F. 
Rittman, head of the Department ,of 
Commercial Engineering, and Pro
fessor Sumner B. Ely -tfill be in 
charge of the survey operating under 
Morris J. Cooke of Philadelphia. Part 
of the work will be conducted with 
the aid of universities and technical 
societies in the state.
A survey of this nature will be of 
special important to industrial lead
ers. Although most power companies 
are private enterprises, they will wel
come any state control that would 
tend to avoid duplication of effort or 
furnished a better and cheaper power. 
To conserve the potential power is 
of most importance to the welfare of 
all. Although the Pennsylvania 
Power Survey is not a part of the Na
tional Super-Power Survey It will 
give many facts and much data that 
will aid the larger project.
The survey will try to determine tho 
number of horsepower that has been 
used in the past fifteen years. It will 
also try to get an approximation of 
tho amount that will be needed with
in the next twenty years, the source 
of past and future power, also the 
probable expansion of industry in that 
time.
By a careful survey It will be pos
sible to eliminate much of the waste 
in creating power. Burning raw coal 
in a locomotive is a good example of 
neeldses waste. Here the 1 valuable 
by-products such as amonia, tar, and 
other liydro-carbons are lost. In a 
centralized power plant located near 
the mines, these could be saved and 
utilized and the cost of transportation 
eliminated.
Statistics prove that the march of 
civilization depends upon the develop
ment of power in usable quantities at 
a nominal rate. Production of work
ers and the wages paid to them de
pend on the power furnished. The 
public must look to the engineer to 
lead the way in the development of 
natures resources to minimize the 
toil of mankind. This places a grave 
responsibility on the present genera
tion of engineers. To do this the en
gineer must have facts. He can get 
facts only when concerns have enough 
confidence in the men making the 
survey to submit them.
The Power Survey of Pittsburgh 
proved that the industrial leaders 
around Pittsburgh had enough confi
dence in the institution and the men 
at the head of the project to allow 
them to collect any data they could.
PROM TICKETS TO BE
PLACED ON SALE JAN. 2
(Continued From Page One.) 
a preliminary ticket, however, as the 
committee forms its estimate of the 
number of couples expected from this 
sale and if any limitation is neces
sary, holders of these tickets will be 
favored to the possible exclusion of 
all others.
All who are eligible to attend the 
Prom should make that date during 
the coming vacationrif he has not 
already done so; but, better still 
should put aside $4.00 to insure him
self a good time at the biggest func
tion of tho school year.
MENS DORMITORIES
Hall Phone President
McGill.....................Schenley 90GS.R. V. Reiner....................
Boss.........................Schenley 9070. R. J. Weppner................
Scobell.......................Schenley 9469. J. W. Force....................
Welch........................Schenley 94GS.N. D. Whaland..............
Henderson.Schenley 91S0. J. G. Goss.......................................
Englebrecht.........Schenley 9220.,
SecretaryTreasurer 
... George Murphy 
... .A. L. Atwood 
C. Gronaver 
... A. S. Carter 
... .P. D. Lonks
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and (re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL 
3904 FORBES STREET
The Carnegie Tech Band enter
tained an enthusiastic audience at a 
concert on Monday of last week at 
Mayview. The forty-four men, all 
dressed in kilties, did so well that 
other tripsnot to Mayvieware be
ing scheduled by Manager Dave Gar
ber.
The men were treated to a good 
meal at Mayview and following the 
concert they enjoyed dancing. They 
were also escorted through the va
rious sections of the institution. This 
is the first time this has been al
lowed and the kilties had the honor 
of seeing the mens, womens and 
childrens sections.
It is surprising to note that when 
the manager called the roll on leav
ing the premises, only one failed to 
appear.
The next concert Will probably be 
in New Castle soon after the vaca
tion period.
ARTS-FRESHMEN HOLD
SUCCESSFUL TEA DANCE
Last a Wednesday afternoon the 
Freshmen of the Fine Arts College 
jumped into the social spotlight by 
holding a very successful tea dance 
in the Union. '
The crowd was one of the largest 
and livest that has been in attend
ance at a tea dance this year. Anita 
Liggette, W. E. Lynch, and T. R. Lias, 
who made up tlje committee in charge, 
are to be congratulated on the success 
of the affair. Tile Tartans furnish
ed the music.
Judge: You are sentenced to hang 
by the neck.
Prisoner: I believe you are string
ing me, Judge.
Georgia Tech.
C. A. HEIMERTS
The Students Store 
and
The Better Shop for 
MEN
Your first thought Classy Hats, 
Caps and Haberdashery at Mod
erate Prices.
At
HEIMERTS
3614 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Next to Post Office. 
Established 1882.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. DECEMBER 18, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
DR. W. L. MARKS IS 
FORMER GRID STAR
Steffen's Right Hand Man 
Long Connected With 
Plaid Athletics
It is hardly necessary to introduce 
ike subject of tbis article to the readrs of the Tartan, for he has been at 
larnegie Tech so long and has been 
iuch a constructive worker while here 
hat practically every man and woman 
it this institution has already made 
lis acquaintance. Doc, as he is 
iffectionately called, came to Carlegie in 1911 and has seen many a 
Tartanite come and go during all 
hese years, and he has been a real 
Iriend to all of them. 
In addition to his duties as resident 
ichool physician, Doc has. always 
jlaycd an important part in Plaid atlietics. Away back in 12 and 13 Doc 
oached both the football and basket 
lall teams of Carnegie. That was be* 
ore the coming of Wally Steffen, and 
hortly after Tex Ramsdell left. It 
singular fact that in 1912 the 
ootball team averaged in'weight only 
:49% pounds, yet Coach Marks was 
ble to make a fairly good showing 
lor the season. In 1919 Doc again 
;ried his hand at coaching, taking 
iharge of the basket ball team and 
ilso supervising athletics in general, 
le h&s been on the Athletic Council 
ince it was organized in 1920, and he 
always active in behalf of the 
chool and her athletes.
Coach Marks came to Carnegie from 
he University of Pennsylvania, where 
e was some guns as an athlete himelf. He played center and end On 
lie crack Penn teams of 08, 09 and 
.0, and was frequently mentioned for 
11-American honors. He also played 
>n the basket ball team, and in the 
ear 1911 was captain of the chamionship Penn quintet.
This season Coach Marks has been 
usy helping Advisory Coach Steffen 
urn out the best football team that 
as ever represented the Skibos. Beause of the absence of Wally the 
reater part of the time, the bulk of 
le actual coaching work has fallen 
pon Doc, and he has never failed to 
;et bis charges to respond to their 
tmost throughout the season.
FIRST GAME FOR CAGERS IS
AGAINST WAYNESBURG, JAN. 5
The first varsity basket ball contest j 
of the season will be played in the j 
field house on Saturday, January 5. i 
The Plaids first opponent will bej 
the fighting quintet from Waynesburg i 
College. The Greene county boys will j 
give the Skibos a run for top honors, 
according to early-season indications.
Get out the old ticket book and pre- j 
sent yourself at the field house, pre- j 
pared to support the team to the | 
limit. This is the first chance to sei 
how Ben Lubies charges will behavi 
under fire. Be there!
AWARD POSITIONS 
TO NEW MANAGERS
Members of Plebe Team Are 
Awarded Their 
Numerals
Hockey Team May be 
Fixture At Carnegie
Dick Carrol, P. H. C., Offers 
Services as Coach
UNIOR CLASSES HOLD
DANCE FOR PROM FUND
The Junior classes of Margaret 
lorrison and Arts held a tea dance 
londay afternoon, from 4:30 to 6 in 
lie Union. Music was furnished by 
lie Tartan Entertainers. The large 
ttendance was gratifying to the 
nuiors, who added the proceeds to 
leir Prom Fund.
Hockey at Carnegie for the last | 
two years has taken a back number 
due to the difficulty of obtaining a j 
rink. Attempts made to use rink in 
the city were unsuccessful. Yet it 
wasn't very long ago, despite these 
difficulties, that the Skibos liad a 
remarkable hockey team. Their 
schedule was a hard one. Real 
teams like Yale, Notre Dame, Penn 
State and Pittsburgh Interscholastic 
All-Stars appeared on it.
Buddy '.Overend, Graduate Manager, 
and former hockey star, is in favor 
of a hockey team provided a repre
sentative squad can be obtained.
This year the rink officials at Duquesne Garden have made the pros
pect of a team very bright. Instead 
of the practise hours being at night 
as formerly, they are now from 11:30 
to 1:30. Dick Carrol, the P. H. C. 
coach; former Canadian Argonauts 
and University of Toronto mentor, 
has offered his service, in coacliina 
the team.
From reports, there is a wealth of 
material in school and those who 
play hockey are urged to come out. 
The candidates showing experience at 
the game are: Beecher, Burns, Dan
iels, Osier, Werndler, Pope, Baldus. 
Kennedy, Macauley, Smith, Nesbit., 
Cappe, Macusker and Ward. Several 
football stars who are going to ap
pear for positions are Wertenberger, 
Bastian and C. Anderson. Tiny Nes
bit shows promise of being a clever 
goal tender while Jack Cappe also 
performs well on the ice.
Several good workouts were held 
the past week and the prospects of a 
Plaid hockey team are good.
Damon"Do you really think that n Boot] pencil helps you to do better work?"
Pythias"I know it docs! Why, Im even able to reiul my own handwriting, now that Ive started using a Dixonu Eldorado I"
DIXON'S
'Me master drawing pencil" 17 leadsall dealers
SCHOOL BUYS VALUABLE
LAND ON FORBES STREET
(Continued From Page 1)
Wolfe property adjacent to Mellon 
Hall and the Brown property upon 
the hill on the other side.
It was estimated that all of the 
purchases suggested by Bigelow 
would total to about a million and a 
half at that time, and the Schwartz 
property was appraised at somewhat 
over fifty thousand so that it has 
obviously appreciated considerably in 
value since them.
The report concerning the imme
diate construction of a new stadium 
is mainly fictitious but the land was 
bought with this as an ultimate ob
ject. For the present it will proba
bly be equipped with tennis courts 
and maintain much of its original' ap
pearance. We hope, however, that 
the day when our new stadium is a 
thing of substance is not far off.
DAVIES and HUGHES
cTWENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Next To Strand TheaterCraig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
No other shaving 
cream has it
igmsjUry
Crying
edm
We want 
a slogan
describing the hinged 
cap that can't get lost. 
Cai^you give it to us? 
Perhapsyou shave with 
Williamsand knowhow 
gentle and soothing its 
quick-working lather is to 
the skin. Perhaps you 
havent begun to use Wil
liams yet. Whichever the 
case, well pay real money 
for your ideas.
$250 in prizes
For the best sentence of ten wortlB orlcos on thevnluuofthc WilliamBHlni'ctl Cap, wc offer thcfollov/incprizes: 1st prlzc$100;2nd prize S50;two third prizc6,$25cach;two4thprlzea,$10 each;six5thprizcs,S5 each. Any undergraduate or graduatcBtudcnt iseligible.Iftwoor more persons submit identicalslogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awurd- ed to. each. Contest closes at midnight March J4, 1924- Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper only,puttingname, address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams ~ >,Glastonbury, Conn.' Co.
The Athletic Council last Wednes
day appointed the first assistant man
agers of football and cross country 
for next year. The new method orig
inated at that meeting of deciding 
upon the managers only after the 
team and coaches have been con
sulted prevented the Councils nam
ing the managers at the same time.
Charles L. Weddel and Russel Rol
ler were awarded the assistant man
agerships in football, while L. I. 
Owens and Edward W. Wright, Jr., 
received the appointments in cross
country. Vernon L. Wendlandt and 
Robert H. Depue were named alter
nate football assistants.
There is a tight race on for next 
years football managership. Both
Jerry Slye and Dick Reid have been 
very favorably reported to the Ath
letic Council. The concensus of opin
ion among the coaches and players 
will decide the issue. The same sit
uation obtains in cross-country where 
both Carey P. Proctor and Curtis Col
vin have shown themselves worthy of 
the managerial berth. The Council 
will hear the preference of those
most intimately 'concerned and will 
then make known its choice.
The following Freshmen were
awarded numerals for their work on 
the Plebe football squad this season: 
Baum, Blaine, Cooper, Dodge, Glanz, 
Guthrie, Hamilton, Harmon, Hughes, 
Levinson, Capt. Manby, Niruick, Tate, 
Vogt, Warren, Werner.
DYKEMAN ELECTED TO 
LEAD HARRIERS AGAIN
On the Plaid Screen
! AMENDMENTS MADE IN 
W. A. A. CONSTITUTION
E. C. FRAZIER
THE A. A. DOES ITS BIT
The other day we were in Buddy Overend's private nook in the Graduate j 
Managers office, and were treated to an exhibition of how the big business j 
man does things. In just a plain, everyday, matter of fact tone ho says right ! 
out. "Miss Braiuard. please make out. a check for $10.000.00! Hardly was 
the order spoken before the deed was done, and we saw before us a little 
slip of paper worth more money than we think the editor will ever hold at 
one time. For those of you who do not know what a check for $10,000 looks 
like, we might explain that it has substantially the same outward appearance 
as any check for lesser amounts.
To get down to the subject, this same check goes toward the purchase 
of the Schmidt property on Forbes street, which the school has recently 
bought. It was announced at the football dance that tho Athletic Association 
had contributed said amount toward the purchase of this property. It seems, 
however, that the bulk of the student body is not acquainted with the fact, 
and we take this means to let them know of the action of their Athletic As
sociation.
NOTRE DAME AFTER THANKSGIVINGWHY?
Another question some of the students and others interested in the foot
ball schedule are asking, is why Notre Dame University was scheduled to 
play at Saturday following Thanksgiving instead of the preceding Saturday. 
The wherefore and the why is something-like this:
A three-year contract is in force which provides that the Skibos shall I 
journey to Indiana next year to play the Irish. Now, when Knute Rockne | 
had his charges in Pittsburgh recently, he expressed himself as being pleased 
with the arrangement as carried out this year, and would be glad to return i 
to the Smoky City for the game next year.
On this basis, Overend went ahead and made up the rest of the program. \ 
However, when the Notre Dame schedule was prepared, it contained two 
trips before the Carnegie game, and the administration of that school wanted 
the team to be at home on the date we were supposed to be met, November 
22.
Learning of this, Buddy hopped the rattlers and invaded Indiana with 
his war-cry. His contention was that the Plaid needed that one big home 
game to tie up the schedule and bring it to a glorious finish, for the Fighting 
Irish have proven a wonderful attraction to football enthusiasts in the vicin
ity of Pittsburgh. The powers that be evidently listened to reason to some 
extent, with the result that, while they could not come to Pittsburgh on the 
date formerly agreed upon, they did consent to come the following Saturday, 
November 20.
llhis will, we hope, clear up the questions in many minds concerning the 
change of the playing date.
Most of the dates for the coming campaign have been fixed, but there 
are still one or two games over which the Athletic Council is working. .Until 
the schedule is entirely finished, tho Graduate Mnnager. prefers that noth
ing be published further tliari what is already known. It is pretty certain 
that the completed program will be published immediately after Christmas, 
however.
Wending their way with the old en
durance characteristic of cross-coun
try men, the Skibo harriers found 
themselves collected at the Kappa 
Sigma house last' Thursday evening 
for a bit of a jubilee.
Lined up in a circle about the blaz- pvovernent" 
ing fireplace they swapped stories | 
and generally prospected as to what 
the  fall of 1024 would bring forth.
After the clock had moved on an hour 
or two the dinner gong pealed, and 
the party adjourned to the dining 
room to partake of pink ice cream 
and other dainties, things quite for
bidden at the training table.
After most of the edibles had dis
appeared, impromptu after-dinner 
speeches were in order. Coach Halferty thanked the team for their sup
port and pointed out a few of the 
faults which might have been correct
ed. I-Iowdy Dykeman spoke of good 
sportsmanship in cross country. Man
ager Wilson commented on the good 
work of his assistants and told of a
letter'received trom tiie Lohigh coacii | investigation is Published 
in regard to good sportsmanship & .
shown on the part of Carnegie Tech. Bulletin Form
DYKEMAN RE-ELECTED
We take great pleasure in announcing that Howdy Dykoman, who this 
year proved lilmself one of the outstanding athlotea of tho country by finish
ing second in the Inter-Collegiate Cross-Country Championship meot recently 
in New York, has been re-elected captain of the Plaid harriers for tho season 
of 1921.
Dykeman has beon a popular leader during tho past season, and has an
nexed many personal triumphs. Unfortunately, the rest of the team was 
not of quite his calibre, and could not in every case give tho necessary 
support to win a meet. But they gave their best, and with the added strength 
of some good Freshman material, next years squad should show much Jin*
ELECTION OF MANAGERS
Tli6 new method of choosing team managers, as outlined In other col
umns, will meet with tho approval of most people concerned. It lias been 
felt for some time that the recommendation of the outgoing manager should 
not bo the entire basis Tor his successors selection. It only romalns now to 
see how the new systoin will work out in practice.
The M. M. C. C. Athletic Board has 
passed the following amendments and 
additions to their Constitution:
Voting.
A two-tlilrds vote of (he entire 
board shall be required on all sub
jects save those designated by tho 
president, as requiring a vote of the 
entire body.
A majority vote of the afore men
tioned two-thirds shall rule in all 
cases.
The president shall vote only in 
case of a tie or In cases where tho 
vote of the entire board is required.
Finances.
The Athletic Association of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology has 
granted to the Womens A. A. of C. 
I. T. the sum of one dollar per regis
tered member of the W. A. A. (includ
ing Arts and M. M. C. C. women) to 
be spent at the discretion of the 
board of tlio W. A. A.
Ai'tfc College Representative.
There shall be one voting represen
tative from tho College of Fine Arts, 
and several assistants for her.
Tills representative shall attend ail 
meetings, and appoint a committee of 
women from the Arts School, who, un
der her direction, shall manage ath
letics in Arts College for tho year. 
The number on tho committee shall 
be loft to her discretion.
Tennis.
FirstEligibility. A player on a 
tennis team must be a registered stu
dent in the M. M. C. C.
SecondPoints. Player playing in 
second round shall receive 1 point.
Player playing In third round shall 
receive 2 points.
Player playing in fourth round shall 
receive *4 points.
Player playing in Ilnals shall roceivo 5 points.
The same number of points shall 
bo awarded for both singles and dou
bles.
ThirdSeason. Doubles tournament 
shall bo played in tho fall.
Singles tournament shall bo played 
in tho spring.
Basket Ball.
By vote of the board of tho A. A. 
of M. M. C. C. takon October 22, 1028, 
was doeldod that thero should bo 
no varsity basket ball In M. M. C. C.; 
thero shall bo Intor-clasa gamos, and 
If desirable, class games' may bo ar
ranged with classes of othor collogos 
such as University of Pittsburgh or P. 
C. W.
INTRA-MURAL B. B. 
COMPETITION SOON
Committee Now At Work on 
Dorm and Fraternity 
Schedule
BASKET BALL DANCES
Several basket ball dances have been, arranged for tho coining eago 
season. The first will be on January 5, following the Waynoaburg ganio. 
The dance will be in the Union and tho Collegiate Six will play.
A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND HAPPY NEW YEAR TO YOU ALLI
Mining Department 
Develops Research
C. W. BECK, 09, DELIVERS
TALK BEFORE CIVIL SEMINAR
(Continuod From Ptigo 1) 
way Yards bo replaced by a larger 
one. As ono hundred arid twenty 
soveri onglneu aro handled dally at 
tho roundhouBO it was necessary that 
most of tho roplacehient work' bo
Many of us on tho campus aro not I under traffic.I ho now turntable Is ono hundred
During tho excitement, ballots were j 
passed around for the election of the |
1024 captain. The result showed that lid j . Th? n?,w wraw 1
Dylieman lwnl again Ieen elected t) | jvietngurstlca, .loimrtimml* 1 nttrncl- 1001 ">. motor The
Ing world-wide attention bocauso oflead tho Plaid harriers. Too much 
cannot lie salci of 1,1 great record tilin g gr0t 'mt"0r0Boror work
season and as for next season wed 
like to predict, but on second thought, 
well let you make your own predic
tions. 1
UNIQUE DECORATIONS
carried on through tho co-operative 
courses.
This department is tho first ono in 
tho Institute to carry on research 
work and to publish tlioir Investiga
tions in bulletin form. The bulletins 
. | so far have been in vory great de-FEATURE PLEBE DANCE mand In every state In the Union
where coal Is mined and In the fol
lowing countries: England, Scotland, 
The Froslimafi class danced its way j Wales, Canada, Australia, France, 
into society vory successfully last Fri-1 Belgium. Germany, China, Japan, 
day night in the Union. Many upper Peru, Chile and Mexico, 
classmen as well as Plebe enjoyed j Co-operative research through re
tire delightful evening. ; search fellowships is devoted to vaInstead of carrying out the cus- j rious problems in coal mining and the 
tomary color scheme of green and | utilization of fuels. The Institute sewhite, the Plaid was well represented ; lects the fellows, the Bureau of Mines 
by hundreds of many colored balloons 1 provides the laboratory facilities, and 
fastened to the ceiling. The music j the Advisory Board determines what 
was furnished by the Collegiate | problems shall be undertaken and
Eight, and of course a caterer was 
on hand to furnish dainty refresh
ments.
The success of the evening was due 
to a large extent to the committee in 
charge, Robert Medert, chairman; 
Virginia Wallis, Grace Glennon, Leona 
Bell, Gerald Bridges, and Richard 
Lockwood.
NEW HONORARY FOR
GIRLS HAS BEEN CREATED
(Continued From Page 1) 
during that year they worked on 
more than one paper.
The rise of the girls to positions 
of importance on the Thistle, Tartan, 
Puppet and Shilling has taken place 
within the last year or so. Before 
that, the men had complete charge of 
the literature around the campus. At 
present, there are a great many 
girls working on the different staffs, 
so that there will be no great diffi
culty in choosing material for addi
tions to the new honorary. The only 
difficulty anticipated is deciding 
which girls are most worthy.
Pi sigma Tau has been created 
for the purpose of making the girls 
already working for student publica
tions work harder, and for the pur
pose of inducing other girls to par
ticipate, with the reward of member
ship for their efforts.
The girls' honorary has long been 
necessary at Carnegie and several at
tempts have been made to organize it 
before this, but it was not until Pi 
Delta Epsilon got to work dn it that
publishes the report.
The reports, containing the coali 
mining investigations, are therefore 
under the auspices of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, the United 
States Eureau of Mines, and the Ad
visory Board of Coal Mine Operators 
and Engineers. The publications are 
proving to be a most valuable and in
tellectual advertisement to the entire 
world of our school and particularly 
the mining and metallurgical depart
ments.
Capt. Edward Steidle, supervisor of 
the co-operative mining courses is sec
retary of tile Advisory Board and his 
work in connection with the Institute 
is espcecially worthy of commenda
tion.
The following additional bulletins 
have been added to the catalog list 
of the Co-operative Mining courses:
Bulletin 6Ac9elerated Corrosion 
Tests of Metals and Alloys in Acid 
Mine Water, by Rpbert J. Anderson. 
Metallurgist, U. S. Bureau of Mines, 
George M. Enos, Junior Metalurgist, 
U. S. Bureau of Mines; and James R, 
Adams, Research Fellow, Carndgle 
Tech.
Bulletin 7A Study of Desulphuri
zation of Coke by Steam, by Alfred 
R. Powell, Physical Organic Chemist, 
U. S. Bureau of Mines, and John H. 
Thompson, Research Follow, Carnegie 
Tech.
Bulletin 8Low Temperature Car
bonization of Pennsylvania Coals: 
(Pittsburgh and Upper Kittannlng 
seams), by Joseph D. Davis, Fuels 
Chemist, U. S. Bureau of Mines; and 
V. F. Parry, Research Fellow, Car
negie Tech.
Bulletin 9Correlation of the Coalit became an established fact.
Both the Pi Delts and the new Pi I Beds of the Monongahela Formation 
Sigma Tau 'sshould be congratulated; . 0f Pennsylvania, Ohio and West 
the one for their efforts in behalf of j Virginia, by Reinhardt Thiesser, Rethe girls, the other for their activi- j search Chemist, U. S. Eureau of
ties which brought the honor to j Mines; and James N. Staud, Research j Growing, Boulder; Robbs, U. of Cash; 
them. | Fellow, Carnegie Tech. Polly, Tech.
oo tracks were 
put out of commission at a time. Tho 
P'lt was built under tho tracks tho 
t'oqulrod distanco and tomporary sup
port put in. Whon tho pit was com
pleted' all traffic was sloppod for 
twelve hours. Tho old turntable 
was moved to one side and the- now 
one put In place after tho center 
bearing was strengthened. The 
tracks were cut to the edge of tho 
pit and tho turntable was again 
ready for use.
MISS WOOWARD
RESIGNS POSITION
(Continuod From Page One.) 
holidays. Miss Smith, supervisor of 
the entire cafeteria system on the 
campus and in the institute, has 
some definite announcements to make 
which at present are not ready for 
publication. They are promised for 
the first issue of this paper follow
ing the Christmas vacation.
TARTAN OFFICE FILLED 
WITH LETTERS PICKING
BEST COLLEGIATE PETTERS
At a recent mooting of tlio IntraFraternity and Dormitory basket ball 
mu lingers hold in the Y M. C. A. 
dub room the following officers wero 
elected: E. R. Patton, president; W. 
F. Gallagher, secretary and treas
urer
The Schedule Committee is ar
ranging a soliedule which will bo 
printed immediately! following tho 
Christmas vacation. The first games 
will he played on January S.
It was decided to have substan
tially the same rules as last year 
and the teams competing in the dif
ferent leagues will bo anuounced as 
soon as a schedule cun be arranged.
A meeting of the managers is held 
every Wednesday afternoon at -1:80 
in the Y. M. C. A. clubroom.
&Oakland Savings 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus.......................$300,000.00Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
GO TO THE k
Tech Barber Shop I
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS P[;Five Bnrbors at your sorvlco. jjj 
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS [f 
BELOW GHAIGjii fjii [>1 ffii fni fin fjj rii fin fiii [I n>i fjii ffii fiiifiiiriii rftifjiiffU fpin>in>) ni otto
SNUFF
Mayor - Why aro you parking? 
Callow Youth- -Thoro' a miss 
tho car.Beflr Cut.
Students desiring to do evonlnfj 
alloppino for gifts, and ji*oetln(j carda, 
onn get Into tho Slngur Pon and Gift 
Shop, Jonklnu Arcado, until 0:30 p. m. |
FRANK BROTHERS
liilh Avnnne Bool Shoj>
linlwcoii *17'I mui -(Hill Simm. Ni'w York
Shoo nntlafactlon moans 
stylo and worth.
Exhibit Shops In all tho largor 
OltlOB.
Try us, fellows
FOR YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING
A littlo lower in priceA little higher in quality 
Than anywhere else.
CONNORS & JACOBS
Outfitters for Men 
3709 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
THE DAYLIGHT STORE 
witmmtimimmmtmiiiiimttmimtmmwtmmiimtmmmmmmimimiimmtt:
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TEbH MAN
Ten yoaro cxpcrlenoo.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1880. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jos. P. Fisher, Jr{,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
Compliments
or
Skibo Inn
(Continued From Page 1) 
of course, could not be expected to 
appreciate art for arts sake. A man 
is never a herp to his valet and a girl 
is never any petter to a Metliusaleh, 
so there you are.
The personnel of the team, as will 
be noticed, includes the cream of the 
countrys talent. No time or expense 
has been spared to watch the individ
uals in action and in some cases the 
judges themselves participated. Any 
man you meet can pick a team of his 
own without an instants hesitation so 
imagine the result of melding the 
official selections of some thousands 
of young men throughout the country 
to form one invincible combination. 
Any all-star football team pitted 
against them would bo completely 
swept away during tho first minute 
of play by their bewildering array of 
close formations, trick ways, dodging 
and sidestepping, and the darling 
work of their lines. Heros hoping 
they can bo scheduled for some time 
in tho near future.
Tho lineup:
Brides of Wash. & Jef...Right Friend 
BImboos of Brown .....Right Cacklo 
Shades of Wash. & Leo .. .Right Pard
Cobbs of Ore ...............................Bpondcr
Hardest of Tufts...........Loft Alone
Anyone of Princeton..............Left Out
Knees of Johns Hopkins.. .Left Over
Mormons of Utah ................Hold Back
Hell of A. State..........................Back Bito
Oldgirls of Williams............Gone Back
Bust of Lafayette...............Never Back
Substitutes: Bitts of Great Neck;
LOOK!
Ladies and Gentlemens Apparel Cleaned, Pressed 
and Mended.
Shoe Shining and Laundry Service.
Work called for and delivered.
THE STUDENT VALET SHOPPE
Student Management.
107 WELCH HALL C. I. T. Phone Schenley 9468
Going Home Xmas ? f
HAVE YOUR TRUNK HAULED BY 
TECH STUDENTS |
Call HARRY MERVIS, Drama f
or
CARRICK 1121-M j.
TECH AUTO TRANSFER CO. f
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 18, 1923
mALUMNI PAG
J*
CLAN NEWS
READ THIS
CLAS attention of all Alumni, and 
especially of all secretaries of clan, 
Is called to the fact that tho Carnegie 
Tartan In now made up on Friday, InHtoad of Sunday an boforo. Thlfl 
makes It necessary that all copy bo In 
our hands Friday morning, to bo mire 
that space 1E roBorVod for It.
Some recent unfortunate dolayB 
prompt up to make Lilia appeal, and 
wo hope that In tho future such oc* 
curroncea may bo avoided.
if for any rott&pn, tho nows cannot 
bo dispatched In time, please ERR that 
tho Alumni Editor Is Informed of the 
fact that copy will bo In, and make 
sure that tho copy ItBolf roachos UE 
by Saturday morning early. The 
largo amount of deserving nows avail
able makes tills procedure necessary, 
and we think that thin request Is 
reasonable.
ERIE CLAN
The last regular meeting of the Brie 
Clan was held at tho University Club.
A large group of members discussed 
several Interesting detallB. Ono of 
tho matters that created quite a bit 
of discussion was ways and moans 
of getting Carnegie women out to the 
clan meetings. At length it was decldod to make an appoal to them by 
way of sending to overyono on tho 
mailing list a descriptive catalog con
taining those plans.
Anyone that is not certain that Ills 
or hor name is on tho mailing list 
should send in name and address to 
13. W. Cross, Hammerinill Paper Com
pany, and ho will receive ono of those 
handsome memoirs of Carnegie, and 
learn what our Alma Mater still oxpocts of hor sons and daughters.
Tho Christmas party, about which 
further details will bo found 011 tho 
front pago, GR to bo hold Wednesday, 
Docombor 20, and will bo a big affair. 
Tho English Garden at tho Rood 
Houso has beon selected for tho lo
cation. Alumni should notify Harry 
Weber at tho American Motor Sales 
Co., 519 French street, or Ed Gross 
of, their Intention to come. All aro 
invited.
HARRI8BURG CLAN
Tho fourth annual Christmas party 
of tho Harrisburg Carnegie Clan will 
be held at (5:80 p. m. on Saturday, De
cember 22, at tho Civic Club of Har
risburg. As In the past, this party 
will bo a dinner dance with dinner at 
0:80 p. m. followed by d and rig until 
midnight. In- addition, thoro will bo 
entertainment by various members of 
the clan and probably a short talk by 
someone connected with tho adminis
tration at Carnegie.
Members of tho Carnegie Clan will 
be present, also from Lancaster, York, 
Lebanon and other nearby towns. 
"Cy Comfort has beon designated 
by the entertainment committee as 
their student representative for this 
party, anl all students who live in or 
near Harrisburg aro requested to get 
in touch with "Cy immediately.
This party 1E always tho big feature 
In the activities of the Harrisburg 
Clan and each year lias witnessed an 
increased attendance. Plans aro be
ing made this year for forty to fifty 
couples. Alumni living in or near 
Harrisburg at tho present time aro 
urged to get In touch with Mr. llitchic 
Luwrle, Jr., 314-318 Commonwealth 
Trust Building, Harrisburg, for any 
further Information regarding the 
Harrisburg Christmas Party. Remom 
her tho date, Saturday, December 22.
ATTENTION BUFFALO!
TI10 Christmas Banquot for all men 
from Buffalo and vlcinlty will he hold 
nt 0:80 p. 111. 011 Frlday, Docombor 28, 
nt Ilio Hotel Tournlno, Dolnwuro avonuo, E, Johnson Purk. Tliis will ho 
tho best Cnrneglo banquot ovor hold 
ln Buffalo. Thoro will ho U speaker 
J'rom Pittsburgh, ontortalnmont and 
tho best moni you hnvo outen for 
mnny montliB,
UndorgradiintoB plonso sign up 011 
tho llst postod nt tho Cnrneglo Toch 
postonico, (Ilvo UM your Buffalo nddross so timt lf, by eh anco, you uro 
homo 011 orutohon wo will call for you 
in a. taxi. Mko It n poliit to soo Uny 
TCollor in tho Department of Prlntlng 
and toll him timt you will ho thoro. 
Tho cost hi $2,50 por piato, no oxtrnn.
Keller Memorial is 
Designed by I nend
Carnegie Graduato Givos 
Services l'or Panel
Miu Suo W'nl.mm Muriilmll, u gl'ml!unto of the Onrnoglo Institute of Toch* 
nology, designed tho pnnol which is 
to bo mounted on tho Kellor Memorial 
Shelf In the library. At 0110 ond of 
the panel thoro Is a ligure of a Klltio; nt the other, n ilguro of u student. 
Between tho two figures thoro in an 
inscription which roads ns follows: 
"Books in Memory of Samuel Smith 
Kellor, Head of U10 Dopnrtmout of 
Muthomntlcs, 15)05-1923.
TI10 panel was enst In bronze in 
our foundry Inst week nud will Boon 
be placed on its shelf in the library.
TI10 totnl value of the books nud 
money received for this memorial has 
now reached $200.00. Mrs. Mnrslinll 
knew Professor Keller personnlly, 
and, since the fund wns so small, she 
practically gave her services. A 
small check, which did not cover the 
value' of her work, wns sent to her 
simply as n token of appreciation.
YOUNGSTOWN WOMEN'S CLAN
A meeting of- the M. M. C. S'. Clnn 
of Youngstown, Ohio, wns held In the 
Brlttnlny Inn Studio 011 Saturday, De
cember 8. Committee No. 2Edice 
Roider, Eloanor Kerr, Leah White 
Hugh and Mabol Alexander Gibson 
had charge of the meeting. Bridge 
and a delightful lunch were tho chief 
items of interest. Tho next mooting 
will be hold February 2, and will bo 
in charge of Committee No. 3, of 
which Anno Lachmnn Martin is 
chairman.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
HAVE YOU NOTED PLAN FOR BUYINGI Tartan Feature Story
That:
The school has now purchased al
most all tho property bounded by 
Forbes, Woodlawn and tho cut.
Tho Athletic Council has adopted 
a new method or selecting managers, j
A new honorary for girls has been | 
organized.
The Junior banquet was held last 
Saturday.
Tho Musical Clubs took a trip 
last week.
The Thistle will have another
saleb campaign.
A now discipline rule has been 
made.
nnnvc rvrcncMT l DO YOU REMEMBER ...BOOKS EXCELLENT; t-----------------------------1 Has Been Misquoted
The following news article in the , -------------------
GoBhuTamhTmseK could not control N. Y. Times Publishes Exag-Economics Department Uses 
Several Texts At No Ad
ditional Cost
Tho third fall dinner of tho Youngs
town Carnogio Clan was hold Mon
day oven Ing, December 8, at the Y. 
M. C. A. Tho Clan was vory fortunate 
in having Graduato Manager Clarence 
Ovorond prosont, After dinner, 
"Buddy talked to tho gathering on 
athletics at Carnogio. He told the 
mombors about tho football teams, 
past, prosont and future, tho now 
gymnnslum, and the athletic outlook 
In general. After Buddy's" speech, 
n short business mooting was hold at 
which It was doclded to inaugurate 
a fund for tho purposo of orocting a 
memorial In memory of tho Into Frank 
A. Haaron, It was announcod at tho 
dlnnor that tho Collegiate Imps, a 
dan00 orchostrn made up of men stu
dents from Cnrnoglo, would play for 
tho Intor-oollogluto dance to ho hold 
Friday, Docombor 21, at tho Ohio Ho
tel, Youngstown Members of tho 
Youngstown Clan aro urged to turn 
out for tills dunco so that Carnogio 
may have a goodly representation at 
the affair.
CLANS WILL FETE
UNDE I1GR ADUATE8
(Continued From I'ago Ono.) 
dance. A 1'orotante on the turkey, as 
it wore.
Forty or fifty couples are expoetod, 
and more can probably bo accommo
dated. Cy Comfort Is tho represeninfive of tho Clan here, and If you can, 
let him know that you will be thero, 
with or without bolls 6n. The Alumni 
will give ontortainment and nomeono 
from the administration hore at 
school will glvo a shftrt address.
Tho details of the Washington party 
had not reached us at the time of go
ing to press, but the plans aro under 
way.
PLANS FOR WOMEN'S
PROM ARE COMPLETE
DEAN OF MEN GIVES
IDEAS ON BANQUETS
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
tho upper classmen is absolutely es
sential.
It is by 110 means tho Freshmen 
only who are affected. Moat courses, 
especially the major ones In the up
per years, are laid out to cover a cer
tain amount of ground In a given 
time. Reduce that time, and the re
sults are reduced. Obviously, that 
means less equipment for the job 
ahead. Can a Carnegie graduate af
ford, in the Intensely competitive field 
ho is to enter, to be less competently 
prepared than the men from other 
technical schools?
It is also to be pointed out that 
the cause of activities is injured and 
not helped under the present pro
cedure. Its own ends are defeated, 
its friends become its enemies. A 
shortage of upper classmen Interested 
in activities is produced by a waste
ful policy at the source of supply. 
There Is a Freshman this year who 
has made a good start In the sports. 
He has ample scholastic capacity to 
anticipate getting his degree in due 
time. One would feel justified in 
predicting that he will be a candidate 
for the football captaincy in 1925, and 
a successful alumnus twenty years 
hence. But he Is not, at the present 
moment, having a decent chance to 
reach either goal. Unles's he has time* 
for more studying, is not subjected to 
a constant urge to go out for other 
honors, and is relieved frQm the strain 
and unrest that go with periodic inter
class incidents, he will inevitably dis
appear at tho end of the second se
mester, if not the first. Is it right to 
make him tho victim of a wrong sys
tem? Is he being given a square 
deal? Every year there are a num
ber of such cases. A still moro vital 
aspect to tho matter Is the perman
ent offect on tho student himself. If 
I10 fails lioro, the chances aro that I10 
will do nothing further in the way. of 
a technical education, and will go to 
work untrained. And just what that 
may or may not mean in Ills subse
quent life, 110 man can foretell.
Thoro is another consideration. Few 
realize tho financial GARR Involved In 
violations of the schedule. When one 
stops to jLhlnlc that tho sources of the 
funds used for Instruction Include 
money provided by parents, and tho 
earnings of solf-supportlng students, 
(ho groat responsibility laid upon 
thoso charged with making our re
sources fully productive beopmos up(Continued From Pugo One.) 
salo In the tea room at Margaret Mor
rison for this purposo.
The class is planning to hold a big 
rummage sale January 12tli at the 
corner of Broad street nud Larimer 
avenue. In order to make the rum
mage snle a success, the girls are de
sirous of having nil organizations on 
tlio campus kindly contribute some
thing to the sale. A motor truck will 
call for all the contributions.
Wont you help1 the Junior girls?
Talk It Over At Home
A Christmas Vacation Suggestion To Seniors
T
V"IHIS is your Inst year in college. This is your 
last Christmas vacation.
Your career after graduation is a question 
that you will want to talk over with the folks 
nt home. They will be even more interested than 
you are. Now is the time to do it.
The John Hancock has in its field organkatton 
producers who began as life insurance men immedi
ately after graduation and have made a conspicuous 
success of it.
Why waste time trying our something else which 
looks just as good" and then come into the life 
insurance work to compete with the man who got 
into the game from the start?
Talk it over at home and remember that you can 
get information and helpful advice by addressing 
Agency Department
8A:3 0THUMDMY3,RJ:DNIP
of Boston, Massachusetts 
Sixty-oncyears in business. Now instiring'One Billion, Seven Hundred 
^ Million Dollars in policies on 3,250,000 Iivt-s
day long enough
Tho Economics Department has con
ceived a novel Idea of book buying 
which not only gives the student upto-date material from which to study, 
but gives it to him at no additional 
cost. The heads of the department 
realize that an ultra-modern course, 
such as Is offered to Carnegei stu
dents, cannot be studied from anti
quated textbooks, and they also real
ize that the students cannot afford to 
buy three or four books Jn one course.
Their plan is this: 
pays to the cashier the price of 
book, usually about $2.50. This money 
is turned over to tho library or to the 
purchasing department, and is spent 
for books, magazines, etc., according 
to the plan of the Economics Depart
ment.
Enough books of each kind, be
tween twelve and eighteen copies are 
purchased by this method, thus assur
ing all students of ample library fa
cilities, and the latest and best auth
orities for their material.
The course is chiefly a study of eco
nomic problems that the world faces, 
it deals with common everyday things 
that all men should know, but few do; 
tho principle of taxation, for instance, 
or the principle of banking.
To read a newspaper intelligently, 
one must understand something of 
the fundamental principle of interna
tional trade, railroad transportation, 
monetary principles, and so on. It is 
to this end that the Economics De
partment struggles, to produce intel
ligent news readers, and men that un
derstand what is going on about them.
the sun to secure 
for V. I. T.
That was the conclusion that some 
of the students have reached since 
the night classes have been organ
ized. The heartiest good will exists 
among the day men and their fellow 
students who attend night classes, 
but it so happens that each is going 
along independently in the class 
work.
"Ail of course will finish in 09 and 
belong to that class, hence all are en
titled to wear '09 on their caps.
"How, then, is day 09 to be dis
tinguished by night 09? The mem.hers of the night class will complete 
The,^tUien; I thIr organization this week and it 
has developed that some insignia to 
distinguish the day students from the 
night men would be desirable.
Call the day men shiners and the 
night fellows moonshiners, suggest
ed a wag last night.
This idea was not accepted, how
ever, but another suggestion was then 
put forward to the effect that the day 
students were to wear a rising sun 
similar to the Japanese flag and the 
class numerals in the center. The 
night men then to wear a silver cres
cent with their class number. This 
was eighteen years ago.
Bureau Finds Work 
For Many Students
Opportunities for Spare Time 
Work Abound in Nov.
gerated Account
parent, and the situation assumes a 
new meaning.
I have asked the Tartan for space 
in this issue because it is to be fore
seen that, for some students, a great 
deal will depend upon how much they 
bring up their wqrk during the month 
following their return from the Christ
mas holidays. And I have not'hesi
tated to criticize the present situation 
because it is injuring seriously an 
otherwise measurably sane program 
of activities, which has been built up 
witli great care and effort by succeed
ing generations of students, with fac
ulty co-operation.
I am very glad to hear, as this goes 
to press, that the Student Council, 
in conference with the Sophomore and 
Froshmen class officers, voted last 
evening to discontinue secret ban
quets, and to develop a now plan that 
should eliminate the trouble that has 
arisen in the past in connection with 
those particular events.
WHAT ROOSEVELT SAID
It is the doer of doods who actually 
counts in tho battle for llfo, and not 
the man who looks on and says how 
tho fight out to bo fought, without 
himsolf sharing tho struggle and the 
danger.
Thoodoro ltoosovelt.
Alumnus Football
Wc makeOn of our graduateo nenda In tho following contribution, 
duo apologies to tho author, whoac namo wo do not know:
Bill Jonos had boon tho shining star upon his collogo team,
Ills tackling was ferocious and his bucking was a dream,
Whon husky William took tho ball beneath his brawny arm,
They had two extra men to ring tho ambulance alarm.
Bll hit tho lino and ran the ends llko some mad hull amuck.
Tho other teams would shiver, when they saw him start to buck.
And when the rival tackier tried to block his dashing pace.
On waking up liod ask: Who drove that truck across my face?
13111 had the speed, Bill had' the wolglit, Bill never bucked in vain,
From goal to goal I10 whizzed along, while fragments strewed the plain.
And there had been a standing bet, which 110 one tried to call 
That ho could make his distance through a ten-foot granite wall.
When he wound up his college course, each students heart was sore,
They wept to think, Bull-throated Bill would sock the line no more.
Not so with Williamin his dreams he saw the field of fame,
Where he would buck to glory In the swirl of lifes big game.
Sweet are the dreams of college life, before our faith is nicked.
The world is but a cherry tree awaiting to be picked.
The world is but an open roaduntil we find some day,
How far away the goal posts are that called us to the play.
So, with the sheepskin tucked beneath his arm in football style,
Bill put 011 steam and dashed into the thickest of the pile.
With eyes ablaze he sprinted where the laureled liiglnvay led,
When Bill woke up! his scalp hung loose, and knots adorned his head.
He tried to run the ends of life, but with rib-cracking toss 
A rent collector tackled him and threw him for a loss,
And when again he switched his course and dashed into the line 
The massive guard named Failure did a toddle on his spine.
Bill tried to punt out of the rut, but ere he turned the trick,
Right tackle Competition scuttled through and blocked the kick.
And when he tackled at Success in one long vicious prod,
The fullback Disappointment steered his feature? in the sod.
Bill was 110 quitter, so he tried a buck in higher gear,
But Leftguard Envy broke it up and stood him on his ear.
Whereat I10 aimed a forward pass, but in two vicious bounds
Big Center Greed slipped through n hole nnd rammed him out of bounds.
But ono day, whon across the Field of Fame, the goal seemed dim,
Tlio wise old coach, Experience, carno up nnd spoke to him
Old bov," ho snid, tlio mnln point now, before you win your bout, 
la: KEEP ON BUCKING FAILURE TILL YOU'VE WORN THAT PIKER 
OUT!
And, kid, cut; out tills fancy stuffgo in thoro, low and hard,
Just keep your oyo upon tho ball, and plug 011 yard by yard;
And moro than all, when you aro thrown, or stumbled for a crack,
Don't Bit thoro whining, hustlo up, nnd lcoop on coming bnck.
Keep coming back, with all youvo got, without an alibi,
If Competition trips you up, or socks you In tho oyo,
Until nt last, above tho din, you hoar this sontonco spillod:
'We might as well lot this bird through boforo wo nil got killed.
Youll find tho road is long and rough, with soft spots far apart,
Where only thoso can make tho grade who have the up-hill heart.
And when they stop you with n thud or hnlt you with a crack,
Lot Courage call tho signals, as you lcoep on coming bnck.
KEEP COMING BACKAND THOUGH THE WORLD MAY ROMP ACROSS 
YOUR SPINE,
LET EVERY GAMES END FIND YOU STILL UPON THE CHARGING 
LINE.
FOR WHEN THE ONE GREAT SCORER COMES TO MARK AGAINST 
YOUR NAME,
HE WRITESNOT THAT YOU WON OR LOSTBUT HOW YOU PLAYED 
THE GAME.
The Student Plncement Burenu,
' managed by the Alumni Office here 
reports that students have earned 
through the Bureau in the past flve 
months, over $20,000.00. That means 
a good deal of work, and It means that 
the office is highly efficient and be
coming more and more so.
November seems to have been a 
wonder in the way of opportunities 
for work. Among the jobs covered 
were pallbearer, flower manufactur
ingartificial, we presumetutors, 
teachers, musicians, and many kinds 
of work demanding special training, 
such as electricians, painters, chauf
feurs, draftsmen, chemists, civil en
gineer assistants, etc.
A request for a model made by a 
local concern to the Womens Employ
ment Bureau was refused as offering 
undeshable publicity for the student.
Ushers seem to have been most In 
demand. During the five months, 
this class of work has offered work 
for 152 men nnd 1,271 dollnrs were 
earned. Waiters were placed in 19 
jobs, and the total earned here was 
9*14 dollars. This does not include 
work in the commons, etc., w.here a 
total of $527.50 was earned.
The men, being given greater op
portunities, far outdid the women in 
point of money earned as well as in 
numbers of jobs filled. $15,087.41 was 
onrned by tho men as against a little 
over llvo thousand for the women. 
This perhaps also shows with a fair 
degree of accuracy the ratio of the 
students at Carnegie.
Although November seems to have 
been such a wonderful month for stu
dent employment It is almost certain 
that December will eclipse it, bocauso of the demand there always Is 
for student help during the holidays.
The trials and tribulations of a 
newspaper man are many and varied. 
He is often misunderstood, misquoted, 
and even misinformed, and the per
sons concerned advance wrathfully 
and demand justice. The great trou
ble is that the newspaper man is too 
trusting. He depends upon the word 
of his fellow man; and how often is 
he deceived and betrayed!
Last year, for instance, lie was in
formed that work was to begin on the 
new gym the first of a certain week. 
As the paper was not to come out 
until the middle of that week, the 
trusting reporter wrote in the past 
tense. In the meantime something 
happened to the steam-shovel, or per
haps the weather was not all that 
could have been desired, at any rate 
the work did not begin, and the poor 
deceived newspaper staff was the butt 
of many a joke. Again the trusting 
reporter had the Seniors sitting on 
the Senior Fence before the holes for 
the fence posts had been dug.
A newspaper is often misquoted, or 
its words so exaggerated that soon 
they are entirely false. Take the case 
of the feature article by Don Gard
ner, concerning a Maggie Murph 
who masqueraded as a man and took 
her friend to a dance which appeared 
in the Tartan of November 27tli. 
This highly exaggerated piece of non: 
sense writen merely to amuse was 
quoted and much exaggerated by a 
Pittsburgh paper. The New York 
Times quoted from the Pittsburgh pa
per to the effect that many Carnegie 
girls had for some time been doing 
.this. Such an article gives entirely 
the wrong impression by its exag
ration.
If a London or Pariir paper should 
decide to quote, they would probably 
have it that Carnegie Tech consists 
entirely of girls the majority of whom 
parade as men. The New York 
Times clipping follows:* * *
MASQUERADE AS MEN
AT COLLEGE DANCES
NIGHT SCHOOL STUDENTS
HOLD ANNUAL SMOKER
(Continued From Page One.) 
followed by Polesie with Ills little 
stunt.
Mr. I-Iartman, Assistant to Dr. Ba
ker, addressed the men mentioning 
the efforts that the executive depart
ment is making to keep in touch with 
the work and activities of the night 
students. Socks Price gave some 
pleasing recitations, followed by Prof. 
C. G. Dunnels, head of the Building 
Construction Department, who spoke 
for a few minutes. Cy Hoeninger 
appeared and took charge while he 
taught the fellows some of the Car
negie yells. One of the fine things 
about the whole occasion was the 
message Cy brought from the day 
students and the spirit in which it 
was received. In a short talk he 
said that the day students were in
terested in having the men in night 
school feel that they were a real part 
of the student body and that the men 
were urged to help make the coming 
basket ball'season a success.
After a talk by Director Mott, Cy 
led the fellows in a cheer demonstrat
ing the fact that his coaching had not 
been in vain. Bill Pfouts was there 
and gave one of his characteristic 
talks, a curious mixture of humor 
and philosophy, but none the less ap
preciated by his listeners because of 
the fact. Director Ihrig, Director of 
Night School, the concluding speaker, 
spoke of the work that 1ms been done 
and the work that is going forward 
in the department. Mr. J. McCurdy 
and Mr. William Ellis, of the InterCity Four, rendered several selec
tions, and with tho appoarance of 
sandwiches, coffee, ico cream, and 
cakos, tho men doclded that they had 
not only spent an enjoyable ovoniug 
but a profitable ono as well.
Tho committee in charge of tho ar
rangements were: J. M. McAlieney,
V. P. OToole, D. A. Boyer, W. R. 
Ilerrloin, Tho s. Garofalo, J. B. Jen
kins, H. C. Lyda, Ferdinand Mazzoti, 
J. A. Mason, R. A. Farnell, F. J. W. 
Spoh'rer, J. T. Moore.
She: I wouldnt marry you if you
were the last man in the world.
He: Of course not! You'd be
killed in the rush!
Northern Review.
Carnegie Tech Co-Eds Take Room
mates When Youths Fail to 
Invite Them.
Pittsburgh, Dec. 2.The old theory
HOLMES TO GIVE 
LECTURE SERIES
Will Lecture on the Latest 
Chemical SubjectsFree 
to Public
Professor Harry Nicholls Holmes of 
Oberlin College, will deliver three lec 
tures here, which will be of especial 
Interest to anyone concerned with 
chemical research.
The subjects for his lectures are as 
follows: January 9, "Colloid Chemis
try; January 10, Emulsions; Jan
uary 11. Gels.
Prof. Holmes received degrees of B. 
S. and M. S. at Westminster College, 
and a Ph. D. from Johns Hopkins. He 
was a professor of chemistry at Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana, from 
1907 until 1914. Since 1914 he has 
been professor of chemistry at Ober
lin College. He is a member of the 
American Chemical Society, Gamma 
Alpha.
Prof. Holmes is the author of an 
Outline of Qualitative Analysis and 
various articles giving results of orig
inal chemical research.
The series of lectures will be held 
in 209 Science, at 8:30 p. m. They 
are open to the public.
that a college girl without a. bid to 
the football dance sits about the frat 
house sulking and weeping has been 
upset by the publication of an article 
in THE* TARTAN, a paper published 
by the Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy. The statement Is made that for 
some time the girls of the Margarel 
Morrison School, familiarly known as 
Maggie Murphies, liave been mas 
querading at dances as men, taking 
their roommates with them, dancing 
with them and escorting them home.
The Sheik haircuts of college 
youths, resembling the bobbed hair ol 
the girls, aided the deception, the art
icle stated, adding that the girls used 
vaseline to make their hair lay flat 
while young mens suits, hats and 
overcoats were borrowed from adjoin
ing fraternity houses.
EXPERIENCED
Farmer: Can you milk a cow?
Pauley: No but I operated a foun
tain pen in college.
Wesleyan.
'HE constant 
smoker finds 
in Melachrino 
Cigarettes a deli
cacy of flavor of 
which he never 
tires.
ORIGINAL
MELACHRINO
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
For that 8:45 L 
sprint against time
A BIG night and an early morn- ing class. Hard linesbut a Rubberset Shaving Brush can help 2 ways.
It whips up a generous lather 
fast. It works the lather deep 
down to the roots of every hair 
holds each, erect so the razor cant miss it.
Thats speed. That's comfort. No waste time. No raw, sensitive face.
Gripped in rubber 
guaranteed
Whats more, time is friendly to a Rubberset Brush. Each 
bristle is gripped everlastingly in 
hard rubbernone can come out, 
mix with the lather and spoil your shave.
