<<^8^
A MERRY CHRISTMAS AND A HAPPY NEW YEAR TO YOU
NEXT ISSUE OUT 
JAN. 4, 1922
' VOL. XVI. NO. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1921
SENIORS AT 
BIG SMOKER
Football Men, Seniors, and 
Newspaper Men Guests 
of Alumni in Union 
Last Thursday
PROGRAM PLEASES
A riot of colours, a spontaneous 
outburst of liiliarity, and a general 
atmosphere of Tech goocMelknvship 
marked1 the annual Alumni Smoker, 
held in the Union last Thursday even
ing. With the Seniors as guests of 
the evening, many old campus friend
ships were renewed and among the 
alumni the expression, Well if it 
isn't ------ was frequently heard.
One had to put his hand outside 
to make sure that it was not Fourth 
of July for fire crackers occupied an 
important place among the noise 
makers. Whistles and horns were 
also in prominence. Paper hats were 
responsible for the riot of colour.
The evenings entertainment start
ed with a movie. This was followed 
by a wrestling bout, which resulted 
in a" draw after some rather sflow ac
tion. Next came Doc Taylor with a 
new interpretative dance. I guess 
youd call it The Dance of the Turkish-Towel-Sausage-in-a-Bag-With-Cleos 
Snake. AnyhoW Doc wrestled for a 
while with the sausage and then made 
vigorous use of the towel after which 
he dove into hiis bag and let the snake 
do the rest.
Cummings and Traxa.l, both of Sci
ence, provided the real thriller of the 
evening with a twenty-minute wrest
ling bout. Fighting a defensive and 
up-hill battle, it was not until the 
Hast two minutes of the contest that 
Cummings succeeded in pinning his 
opponents shoulders to the mat.
Ham Whitmer and Berry provided 
all kinds of excitement in a six-round 
boxing bout. Berry showed that he 
was possessed of a great deal of sci
entific skill but Ham whom all 
will remember as one of Techs grid
iron hlerces, showed his opponent that 
he was capable of taking quite a lot 
before coming back strong. It was 
this that led Berry to proceed cau
tiously at every moment.
Harry Hayes, a Plebe in the Drama 
Department, gave an exhibition of 
clog dancing that would make any 
professional feel like taking (lessons 
again and was applauded time and 
again. One almost thought he was back 
in the old countree. The Tech Six fur
nished the music for the evening. 
Close on to midnight someone men
tioned eats and then there was a 
grand rush. Hot dogs, hot mustard, 
gosh, mtongues burnin yetcoffee 
and apples appeased Jii6 appetites of 
all who indulged.
In general the evening was a ban
ner one. From the standpoint of one 
of the honoured guests it was pleas
ing to mingle with the boys of the 
old days and for the alumni it must 
have been a satisfaction to get first 
hand news from tho Seniors. It was 
merely another indication, of the new 
and more sincere spirit of Tech and 
was one huge success.
JUDGMENT DAY FOR PLEBES 
AT SCIENCE ASSEMBLYSUR
PRISE MOVIES AND GOOD MUSIC
The Assembly to be held in 209 
Science today should prove more 
popular than ever. The wrath of 
the poweKS that be shall descend 
with might upon the heads of sever
al unruly members of the lowest 
class at Tech. In the vernacular 
of the exact this means that the 
Plebe Regulations Committee will 
function.
Those who long for a glimpse of 
the movie world at # California will 
have their desire satisfied without 
the need of a long trip for some 
pleasant surprises are at hand in 
this line.
As usual the Plebe Orchestra will 
furnish the music. Youll be sorry 
if you dont go.
PHYSICS DEPT. 
DISCUSSIONS
Meetings Open to All and 
Many New Subjects Dis
cussed For First Time
During the montli of November 
there were four meetings of the Phys
ics Colloquium. These were all held 
in Room 113, Science on Wednesday 
afternoons at 4:30 oclock. At the 
meeting on November 2 Mr. R. W. 
Boreman described an acoustical gal
vanometer used by Watson and Ham 
to measure very small alternating 
currents. Currents of less than a 
millionth of an ampere could be de
tected. Mr. Ralph Humbert at- the 
same meeting described some work 
of Koller on the electrical resistance 
of thin sputtered platinum films. Very 
thin films of this sort have negative 
temperature co-efficients ror electrical 
resistance. On November 9 Mr. R. L. 
Hasche and Mr. W. H. Michener 
spoke on the subject of liquid crys
tals. Mr. Hasche described some of 
the physical and chemical properties 
of organic materials showing these 
phenomena. Mr. Michener showed 
on the screen some beautiful illus
trations of crystal growth.
On November 16 Professor Hower 
described a thermometric fixed point 
given by crystalline quartz. This has 
lately been made use of at the Bu
reau of Standards. The sam after(Continued on Page Two.)
DR. BAKER SPEAKS
The Cornell Alumnae met Decem
ber 9 at a luncheon in the William 
Penn Hotel. Dr. Baker addressed 
them, his subject being, The New 
German Republic.
2,000 DOZ. GRAPHICA 
XMAS CARDS MADE
The sale of Graphica Christmas 
cards closed yesterday with total 
sales of over two thousand dozen, 
the quota set at the beginning of the 
campaign. All of, the Christmas 
cards will be ready for. distribution 
on or before Friday and all students 
who promis'ed1 to call for their cards 
are asked to do so as soon as pos
sible.
Having sold more than their 
quota, the Graphica is sure of the 
inspection trip which is to be taken 
during Easter vacation. All expen
ses of members who go on the trip 
will be paid from the proceeds of 
the Christmas card sale.
R. O. T. C. TO HAVE
PICTURES TAKEN DEC. 16
There will be a picture taken of the 
entire R. O. T. C. (all classes) next 
Thursday, December 16, at 12:20 p. 
m., behind the Arts Building. Every 
e is requested to make a special eft to be present, as this is just as 
h of a duty as any class. Help 
\ the school and the R. O. T. C. 
by being present in uniform.
Drill will be discontinued after the 
Xmas vacation for the period of the 
winter months.
Colonel Brooks went to Washing
ton, D. C., and Fort Howard; Md.* 
Monday. He is making a personal 
effort to secure commutation of uni
forms as well as to secure other 
things that will heflp the R. O. T. C. 
and the school.
The movie, belonging to the R. O. 
T. C., showing .the working parts of 
the automobile, was voted upon by 
the faculty, and is to be exhibited be
fore them. This , film is available to 
any group of persons interested, ar
rangements to be 1 made with the R. 
O. T. C. department.
CONCERT AT MAYVIEW
Last Friday evening the Mandolin 
Club and Glee Club gave their first 
concert of the year at Mayview for 
the inmales and nurses. Sixty men 
made the trip, thirty from each 
club. After a dinner which was 
served) by the nurses, the entertain
ment started in the lecture hall. 
The clubs did very well for their 
first course and there is no reason 
why they shouldi not have a most 
successful season.
After tho recitals an hour or 
more was devoted to recreation and 
dancing. The club members always 
get a lot of enjoyment out of these 
trips.
CONFERENCE ASSEMBLY
A noted Newspaper .correspondent, 
Mr. Carl W. Ackerman, connected 
with ;the New York Times, address
ed the four schools at the General 
Assembly in the Musi a Hall last 
week. He spent a great deal of 
time in Europe and Asia during the 
war and told of his travels -in Si
beria and Ireland, relating numer
ous anecdotes connected with his 
war .experiences.
The importance of the Disarma
ment Conference now being held in 
Washington was brought out by the 
speaker. Among other things he 
said: The United States is the na
tion which can bring the European
Nations together.................. This
-conference da the beginning of in
ternational co-operation on a scale 
hitherto unknown.
Dan Cassidiy told of the present 
developments of the Princeton Con
ference; also of the recent confer
ence of a similar nature held at 
Chicago University which was at
tended by from scores of schools. 
These delegates of the two confer
ences are now co-operating to inter
est foreign colleges and thus make 
it an international conference.
The excellent singing of a quar
tet made a great hit and partly 
made up for the disappointment re
sulting from the absence of Harry 
Lauder.
MANY HEAR 
J. ADDAMS
Noted Woman Speaker Talks 
at Chapel Exercises Last 
Monday  Founded 
Hull House
THEATER IS CROWDED
Miss Jane Addams, noted social 
worker, spoke to as many of tho 
Carnegie Tech students who could 
Crowd into the Arts Theater, last 
Monday, on the Washington Confer
ence.
Miss Addams choose the Wash
ington Conference as the subject of 
her talk because she deemed it to 
be of greatest importance to the 
college men and women of the coun
try today.
One of the reasons for the Wash
ington Conference, as she stated, 
was that as a weapon of defense 
or offense, the battleship was prac
tically useless, or in the words of 
Sir Percy Scott, no damn use at 
all.
Aeroplanes and submarines are de
stined to play the important roles 
in future wars.
Then again 92 per cent of out 
national budget went for past and 
future wars. Taxes are high and 
the business men of the country are 
demanding that they be cut. One 
solution only, a ten-year naval holiday.
That the Washington Conference 
would be a means whereby our sur
plus supplies of materials, especial
ly foodstuffs and clothing might be 
sent to tho needy of Europe, rather 
than let them waste here at home. 
There must be a balance of the 
necessary things of lifeit means 
as much to us as it does to people 
of Europe. And In conclusion, she 
said, if the statesmen of the world I 
were unable to bring about such a 
condition, then it is college men 
and tho women of this country who 
must do It.
Miss Addams is a motherly look 
ing woman, seemingly quiet and unobstrusive. She spoke rapidly, with 
a very distinct voice and used ges
tures rarety. Her manner was sin
cere anl convincing. Her talk was 
received attentively and she undoubt
edly impressed upon those present 
the Importance of the Washington 
Conference.
SENIORSALL THISTLE
PICTURES MUST BE TAKEN 
BY SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17
All Seniors who have not had thoir 
pictures taken for the Thistle must 
report to Breekens studio In Oak
land before Saturday, December 17. 
All pictures not taken at this time 
will have to be omitted from the Se
nior section of this year's Thistle.
There have been a large number of 
inquiries from students who were uuable to subscribe for their Thistle 
during the last campaign. The This
tle staff is running a mail order cam
paign during the Christmas vacation. 
Take advantage of it!
23 PROMISES 
NOVEL PROM
Committee Arrange For 
Many Surprises 
Favors and Very 
Unique
DEBATE ASSN. 
ORGANIZES
Bowers Elected President 
Peterson, Again (Coach 
Prospects Bright
NEW SCHOLARSHIP 
CUP TO BE AWARDED
Announcement is made by Dean 
Tarbell that tho Inter-Fraternity 
Scholarship Cup will be awarded at 
the January General Assembly, and 
that the Faculty Club will give it.
The scholastic standings of the fra
ternities for 1920-21 are now being 
computed by the Registrars Office.
This Is thle second cup to bo of
fered. The first cup was purcliasjjd 
in 1915 .by voluntary contributions 
from members of Ifahe En'glnleering 
Faculty and became the permanent 
possession of the Beta Theta Pi last 
year, that fraternity having won 'the 
trophy three times out of four con
secutive years.
The new trophy will be competed 
for yearly by all the 19 fraternities 
comprising the General Inter-Frater
nity Council.
In determining the scholarship of 
the several fraternities the following 
method is employed:
The algebraic sum of the points 
for quallity and deficiencies for the 
entire eligible membership of the fra
ternity, divided by the number of such 
members, gives the fraternity rating, 
the following values to be used in 
the computations: A equals 4, B
equals 3, C equals 2, D equals 1, 
E equals 0, F equals minus 3, R 
equals minus 4. Only the initial 
grades obtained by the student and 
only the records of the scholastic 
year in question are considered.
Y. W. C. A.
LIBRARY HOLIDAY SCHEDULE
CHRISTMAS TREE DEC. 19
The C. I. T. library hut announces 
the following schedule in effect dur
ing the Christmas recess: December
19, 20, 21, 22 and 23, open from 9 a. 
m. to 5 p. m. The hut will be closed 
on the 24, 25, 26, 27 and will open 
again for the remainder of the period 
on December 28, 29, 30, from 9 a. m. 
to 5 p. m., and on January 3 from 1 
p. in. to 9 p. m. On January 1 and 2 
the library will romain closed.
The above schedule also applies to 
Arts theater with the exception of 
December 23 and 31, when it will be 
closed.
The Hut will be decorated as us
ual this year. The library lends it
self to Christmas decorations and 
on December 19 will boast of ""Chris' 
mas tree n everythinr. wl y. . 
one is invited
The regular Y. W. meeting this 
week was in charge of the Bible 
Study Committee, and was led by 
Hortense Purdy, its chairman. Miss 
Purdy very cleverly knit up the 
meeting with the Student Friend
ship Movement^
NO SMOKING
That Carnegie Tech, is to be well 
represented in the debating world 
became a realty on Friday of last 
week when eighteen men who passed 
the qualifications of a temporary or
ganization met and formed The De
bating Association of Carnegie In
stitute of Teoli.
After some discussipn on the con
stitution it was moved and seconded 
to pass it with the various changes. 
The body then nominated and elect
ed tho various officers for the year. 
The result's of the election were: 
President, C. F. Bowers; secretary, 
J. D. Kenney; treasurer, L. J. White
head The association unanimously 
choose Mr. Peterson of the English 
Department as their coach for tho 
icoming debates.
The association is' fortunate in
this matter for Mr. Peterson Ls con
sidered by those who have workod 
for him as pecond' to none in the 
department. Ho demonstrated this 
last year in tho team which he de
veloped from new material.
Four of last year's* varsity oro
available this year and the association promises to bring honors to 
Tech In a new field.
Coach'Peterson ts.v|?rit as to the 
colleges we are to enter into debato 
with, but b,y all Indications wo will 
meet W. & J. Tills time It is hoped 
the tune wil1 bo quite different. 
However, he did say that about five 
colleges were on tho schedule and 
.promised a surprise on Tooh campus 
when the schedule would bo an
nounced.
The present and newly formed or
ganization Is the outcome of last 
year's Carnegie Forum.
M. M. GUILD CARNIVAL
If anyone didn't have a good tlmo 
last Friday night it was their own 
fault. They tjhould have beon at the 
Margaret Morrison Guild Carnival. 
Santa Olaus made a special little trip 
down from the North Polo for this 
particular event. Gypsies loft their 
caravans to road the future for nil 
who wished to hear. A speclail football 
game between Pitt and Techgee, 
gosh, golly, neverything ! ! ! !
The various organizations did some
thing to make the evening a succosb. 
The Junior stunta Scotch Dance, 
featured Helen Busch, Eleanor Mar
tin. Helen Vernon, Jean McKee, Dor
othy Levinson and Helen McKee. Ray 
Fine and Ruth Gleichert rendered a 
Dutch dance and afterwards featured 
this country in the sale of hot dogs. 
Plerot and Plerette presented a clever 
little dance of their own through the 
efforts of Lillian. Coleman and Ger
aldine Kelly. Miss Chalmers in an 
interpretative dance, was muchly ap
preciated.
At the booths, run by the Y. W., 
Household Ec. Olub, Secretarial Club 
and Junior Class, candy, cakes, punch 
and toys were on sale. Altogether it 
was everything that it was advertised 
asa winder Mardi Gras, with all its 
fun.
ARCHITECTURAL DEPART
MENT ON CHARETTE
AnnHave you stopped smok
ing?
VanYes, I had to. A fellow 
cant get a good cigar on the camp
us any more. It is too muddy." 
Chaparral.
New Appointment In M. M. C. C.
Mrs. Mary Clarke Burnett has been 
appointed head of the Social Work 
department, effective February first. 
Mrs. Burnett Is a native of London, 
England; received her A. B. at the 
University of Toronto and A. M. at 
Columbia University; has engaged in 
social service in Toronto, Greenwich 
House, New York City, Cincinnati, the 
University of North Carolina as a lec
turer, and Alameda county, California.
The Seniors of the Architectural 
Department were engaged in a wild 
charette as the lights of the school 
were winked on Saturday midnight, 
December 10. They finished a design 
of A Church. Their next projet 
is A Bachelors Apartment. The 
Juniors of the department took an 
esquisse, or made preliminary 
sketches on an archaeology, entitled 
A Spanish Window. They are now 
working on A Casino in the West 
Indies, while the Sophomores are 
working on A Commemorative Mon
ument situated at the end of the 
walk In a park.
IMPORTANT, STUDENTS,
IMPORTANT
IMPORTS ORCHESTRA
The best Prom over held by any 
Junior class at Techthat is the 
promise of this years committee and 
they are putting forth every effort 
to make good on thoir promisefor, 
in tho past, Tech has held some 
Proms which cannot easily be out
done. The music, favors, program 
and midnight luncheon will all be 
the best obtainable, and since the 
affair Is to be lioid in tho ball room 
of the Schenley, an attractive set
ting is assured. No efforts are be
ing spared by the committee in their 
desire to make tills gala night an 
ovent never to bo forgotten in the 
memory of the class of '23! And 
with the aid of ovfcry man in tho 
Junior elass the Prom will exceed 
our fondest hopes and highest expec
tations.
Negotiations f6r music are now 
under way and it is hoped that a 
big surprise will bo forthcoming 
when the name of the orchestra is 
announced. But, for the presont, it 
is a secret to all and only tills much 
ls known: they nro from out-oftown. Now guess! The favors will 
Ibe somothlng docldodly different, 
and tho decorations, wellyoud be 
surprised. But, enough of tho good 
things for tills woolc.
Now for business. Tho budgot 
calls for $1.50 from evory man in 
tho Junior classand tho lhonoy 1s 
needed now, for, without It, tho 
icommlttoo will ibe unablo to go 
ahead and mako the necessary final 
arrangement. So menbog, borrow 
or steal tho nocossary coin, and col
lectorsdont' lay down on thoVjob 
got the $1.50 from oach and evory 
man. Remombor our slogan: "Tho 
best Junior Prom in tho history of 
Tech.
ALPHA TAU, INDUSTRIES HONOR
ARY, TO. PLEDGE NEW MEN AT
DIVISIONAL ASSEMBLY TODA^Y
Alpha Tau, tho honorary fraternity 
of tho College of industries, corre
sponding to Tau Beta PI of Science, 
announces that it will pledgo its 
new members at tho assembly of that 
eollogo today.
Tlieso men are chosen on tho 
basis of scholarship, activities, and 
character.
Alpha Tau was founded some 
years ago in the Industries School 
with the purpose in view of provid
ing some incentive to scholarship to 
the men -taking non-dogroe courses. 
These men were not eligible to Tau 
Beta Pi, and for this reason the 
need of another honor society was 
felt.
All Industries men are earnestly 
requested to attend tho Assembly to
day.
SONG CONTEST 
CLOSES FEB. 1
All Registered Studentfe 
EligibleSpecial Prizes For 
Organizations
HOLIDAY WORK FOR 
ALL MID-WEST MEN
Wlion you roach homo for tho holi
days, surprise your old Alma Mator, 
soe tho principal, soo the students 
of t.lio High School. Talk to tho stu
donts;, many are undocldod as to 
whore to go to school; many do not 
know that Tech has nftioh to offer 
them.
Among those many students ls 
tho. kind of matorlal Tech always 
wishes. Dont forget, wlion you 
think of matorlal, that your High 
School Is perchance turning out a 
man who needs the assistance of 
Wally Sieffen.
Look up the Alumni back homo 
to ring the praises of Tech to thorn, 
they may not roallzo how Tech lias 
grown; got thoir. promise to come 
to campus week, as its their week 
as well as ours. We know youi 
show the true Tech spirit, to try 
make Tech bettor known among 
the coming classes that graduate in 
Middle West.
THE MID-WEST ASSOCIATION.
H. E. CLUB PARTY
At Miss Pope's suggestion, Inas
much as*it seems rather selfish to 
spend a* ones spare time In amus
ing oneself, the Household Econom
ics Club spent the hours after din
ner at their last meeting, sewing 
for the Y. W.
Dinner was served in the Rec. 
Hall by the Juniors and the party 
then adjourned to the Practice 
House for the sewing bee.
This, was one of the most enjoya
ble meetings the club hais ever 
held. Miss Pope read a letter fom 
Miss Rupert who is in Canton, 
China, and gave a very interesting 
account o her own trip to Wash
ington during Thanksgiving holidays, 
and meeting some of the conference 
delegates, Helen Reed gave her Im
pressions of Boston, which by the 
way, are not exactly in accordance 
with those of Miss Hatch.
Marian Layton then took charge of 
the business meeting, at which some 
yery novd ways of procuring a VIctrola for the P. H. were suggested.
In tho past Carnegie songs have 
been passed from year to year mere
ly by verbal order. Tills year a move
ment lias boon definitely, started to 
collect the various school songs and 
publish them under one cover, to bo 
known as the Carnoglo Tech song 
book.
In order to facilitate this a contest 
has been oponod to which all register
ed students are eligible. Songs from 
Alumni, fiiculty mombors, etc., will bo 
gratofully accopted but will not bo 
consldorod as competitions for prizes. 
Awards will be mado In the form of 
fohr or llvo cash prizes, amount to bo 
announced later. One prize will go 
to tho organization, fraternity, dormi
tory, otc., submitting tho host song.
Tho judging eommlttouB will dovoto 
evory onorgy to pick the most appro
priate eollogo songs.
Tho music department will co-oporato with any one desiring to write 
words oi\ly, and will endeavor to fur
nish a suitable melody.
Tho only governing rules in tho con
tent, are that the words and melo
dies-* must be original. Songs enter
ed for tho competition should ho turn
ed Into the post offlco, addrossod: 
Song Commlttoo, Box 125.
NEW STUDENTS IN FEB.
The Prosldent and Board of Trini-, 
toos luivo approvod tho rocommondaLlon of tho Educational Sonato that 
studonts ho admlttod at Ilio beglnnlng 
of tho socornl somestor. The purposo 
Is to talco caro ol! th studonts wlio 
graduato freni tho hlgll schoolS In 
February; The rocommendatlou prvldos for tho admlsslon of now Freslimon In numhors noi, to oxeood two 
soctlons In Ilio' College of Englnooring, ono in tho Collogo of Industries, 
ono In tlio Collogo ol! Fino Arto, and 
two In tho Margaret Monismi Car
noglo Collogo. By attorni big two summor sesslons It will ho posslhlo for 
tlioso ontoiing February (1, 1922, to 
graduato In June, 1925. Wltli tho ho* 
glnnlng of tho now yoar roglslmtlon 
of night studonts wlll ho rosumod.
<^8AM ER<^Y C8 HMAI S^TT
All tlioso who attonded a danco 
givon In the Rec. Hall on Wednes
day afternoon about two weeks ago 
will probably romembor It. It Is 
hardly necessary to urge them to 
come againiperhaps It is sufficient 
to say Theres going to be another 
this afternoon." Proceeds are to 
go to tho Student Friendship Fund, 
for the relief of suffering students of 
Europe, and it is hoped that Car
negies bit will not fall short of 
that of neighboring colleges.
REASSURING
Want to take a chance on an au
tomobile, mister Only one dollar. 
But I don't want an automobile, 
young man.
Thats all right, mister. Maybe 
you wont get it.
In a recent survey at the University 
of Kansas, it was found that the aver
age expense of the average student 
there was $827.29 annually. It was 
found that fifty per cent of the stu
dents earned all the money they spent 
and seventeen per cent earned all of 
It while at school.
Curves make women angelic, 
saya an enthusiast. They also make 
angels of speedor,Ex.
Galli- Curri Outdone by
Carnegie Tech Stringers
SOPHS HOLD 
BANQUET
Science, Industry, and Arts 
Sophs Meet Mon. Night 
at General Forbes; 
Large Attendance
PLEBES HOLD JOKER
The combined Sophomore banquet 
of the three men schools, which was 
held at tho General Forbos Hotel 
Monday night, met an unexpected 
snagthey found the Plebes in pos
session of tliolr banquet hall.
It was revenge for the Plobes and 
they made the most of it. Before tho 
Plebes would get out of the banquet 
hall the Sophomores were compelled 
to agree that the Plebe presidents 
should not bo at tho banquet. As a 
result, they were handcuffed to rail
ing outside.
Outsido of this one regrettable inci
dent (on tho Sophs part) and 0110 
little painful incident enacted at the 
Dorms after the banquet, tho affair 
was poacoful and successful and a 
precedent for Sophomoro classes in 
giving throo-school banquets.
How They Did Eatl
Tho banquet Included quite nn ar
ray of very good oatablos, and evory 
follow took special pains to forgot his 
bringing up. Wlion about 250 good 
follows got together they cortaliily 
are willing to bo entertained.
With four nice girls to lead in song 
and danco tho Sophomores soon took 
up tho gay spirit of tho ovonlng, and 
had the host tlmo of tho yoar.
Olasfl spirit workod without hounds 
or (limit. On a certain Thursday 
night several surprise parties woro 
hold, but tlioy weren't of the birthday 
nature. When cortaln  crowds of 
Sophomores got together something 
ls always dcHng. On this occasion 
thoro was action.
Kldnnppora.
Wlion a big yellow car, well erpwdod< drew up ofchind tho Bota hoiiiv., ; 
eomploto surprise was liandud to 
Tod Moossnor, Sclenoo Plobo prosldont. Ho was quickly handcuffed 
and gagged and hauled to tho waiting 
machine, Sawor, the Industry Plobo 
president, was tho next victim. U11* 
fortunatoly for him, he was In hod, 
and of course was rather scantily 
clad. Bofore ho had time to act, 
presto! A pair of trusty (handcuffs 
and tho deed was dono. Ono presi
dent now romalnod.
'Ihls venture was considered rath or 
difficult, for Malloy, tho Design Plobo 
president, (lived In Henderson Hall, 
and II; Is in tho actlvd territory of 
ovor a hundred Flobos. But not a 
single Interruption. Considerable 
difficulty was found In locating Mal
loy, hut finally by a freak tolephono 
call the missing link was captured, 
barehanded, In tho act of answering a 
telephone' call after 11 p. m.
Tho speakers of the evening woro:
Director Mott, Bossange and Mor
ris of U10 tliroo schools. Other repre
sentatives of tho faculty were Prof.
C. C. Lends from Industries, Prof. 
It. . Aloxandor from Sclonce, and 
Prof. 10. M. Aslio from Design. J. 
It. Hanna load tho toasts, and had 
110 difficulty In receiving espouse. 
The commlttoo for tho banquet was 
composed of two representatives 
from each school, Messrs. E. John
ston, Ryan, Pittman, Burglund, 
Deeter and Zimmers
WHAT NOW?FOR 
FASTIDPOUS SENIORS
VisitorDoes Mr. Crawford, 
student, live here?
Landlady-j^'ifhevMr. Crawford 
1' 'nt ,KJght he was a
* nr \ yVorthem Re*
To all undergraduates, both men 
and women, let tho alumni office sug
gest that you read carefully the di
rector^ of Tech Clans, on Alumni 
Page. If your home is In any of tho 
cities named or nearby towns please 
report your name and address to the 
alumni office for Christmas parlies 
banquets,. etc.
There are two parties booked. One 
in Boston, Massachusetts, the last 
part of December foriall New Eng
land people. The otlkr at the Co
lonial Country Club, I Jirrisburg, Pa., 
'ember 20.
Galll Ciircl may bo world famous, 
hut did you ovor stop to think how 
long it took her to got thoro? Woll, 
thats whore tho Stringers put It all 
over tho rest of them. In tho short
1 space ^of an evening they became 
world famous. This morning a letter 
arrived from Cuba from the manager
i of a famous hotel there, stating that 
he had discharged his orchestra, and 
enclosed a season contract for the 
Stringers.,
i Well, this is how it ail happened, 
j Last Saturday evening the Co-eds
journeyed to Wostlnghouso and thoro, 
"a la radio/' broadcasted their music 
to goodnoHS known where not. The 
girls scorned pleasd with tho fact 
that the effect of their efforts was 
not visible to them, but tho operator 
reported that he was kept busy with 
requests for a ropltltlon of Ma and 
"The Sheik. Ono of these came from 
an alumnus at Canton, Ohio, who hap 
pons to bo equipped with a set. You 
may hear a lot about Vassar, Welles
ley and the rest, but If you look Into 
the real lime light youll always find 
the Tech Co-Eds.
A committee has been appointed 
from tho Senior class recently to look 
Into tho matter of Senior privileges 
at Tech. The committee has been 
hard at work on tho idea hut they will 
he unable to make any recommenda
tions until after Christmas holidays.
At most largo universities and col
leges there are certain things that 
only the Seniors are allowed to do. 
These things are not enforced by fac
ulty action, but are traditional to the 
school and are enforced by the will 
of the student body. At some colleges 
they have certain parts of the campus 
and paths where only Seniors may 
tread and many other customs which 
give to the Seniors a certain dignity 
and position which is theirs because 
they are Seniors. This is what the 
Senior class haB In view when they 
attempt to establish Senior privileges 
hero.
Tho Seniors were unablo tq come 
to any decision on tho matter of dis
tinctive dress. A large majority 
seemed to he In favor of tho plaid rib
bon with the gold runner In place of 
a watch chain, but. there woro many 
difficulties which woro unablo to ho 
ovorcdmo. However, tho question of 
Senior distinctive droas 1N still pond
ing.
NEW PLAY IN ARTS THEATER
Tho play, "Tho Devil's Disciple, 
will he open to all students 011 De
cember 15 and 10. This play is a 
pronounced success and you will miss 
something good if you fail to attend.
On Wednesday, December 14, the 
Arts Society of Pittsburgh lias been 
invited to attend the performance of 
the play.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1921
Gennet Record
For Sale in the CENTRAL BUILDING by the I 
CARNEGIE MUSICAL CLUBS
BE A BOOSTER! HELP THE CLUBS! j
Price.........................$1.00 S
[ Starr Phonograph Co |
I 811 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH, PA. fl
JOS. E., KRUMM, Prop. 
5522 WALNUT STREET
 (flarian
Published every week by undergraduate of the .Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under" tho supervision of tho Student Activities Board.
Entered In Lho Pbstofllce of Pittsburgh as Hocoa'l-class mutter.
FREDERICK U KNOWLES ......................................................... Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Hazel 1)808
WILLIAM R. MILLS .............................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchonley 9211
VIC. II. STROMQU 1ST ............................................................ Managing Editor
TelephonesSchenley 91.80 or Hlland 858
HELEN V. LEWIS.....................................................................Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9079
L. J. WHITEHEAD ................................................................. Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND........................................................................News Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9070
H F SJMPSON.......................................................................... Athlotic Editor' TelopbonoSchenley 9070
t, ,r f CCYDR8 ...................................................................................... PhotographerII. Ii. PWOUrC8 .................. inxfimm'o EditorO. A. DICK MAN ......................................................................' ijX<U,im''
nr HONNiiM ANN ..........   ...........  AdvortMm! Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
to L R1ELLY .......................................................... Circulation. Managed
-------------------" EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Oladvn Bokuo, M. Schumuehur, H. V. Dtotor, A. J^ubln, Vincent Hoy,
i r oEtfc II. Lofhowll*. H. II. Wilson, Ii. U McK...... W. J. Holton,
u HeEmnh, IP. T. Pholp, IS. J. MauHt, H. I>. Hy, J. A Dougherty, M S. 
JDowncn, W. (!. Sullivan, II. W. lirowall, J2. W. Duggan, F. C. Smltll, H. J.
WiiCnnnlcIi, I Hyoi-ly. I..' M. l.'llllott.______________________________________________
' UUSINBSH ASSISTANTS
J. M. Cooper _______________________Bo'voni_____________W. Ii. Cunningham
Tho Edltor-ln*Obler Ifi responsible Cor the polloy ol thill papor; tho
Mjinaglbg Hilltur fur the make up._________________________________________________
Tho Tartan welcomea ull communications ot Btudont Intorent. It signed, 
nlgnaturo will bo withheld If doBlrod. All now ltoms muHt bo in tho Btudont 
pout olllco before 1:110 Friday.___________________________________________;________
'I'artan OlllcoRoom 5-A, IndUHLries Building. Olllco liourBTueBday, 
11:30 to 12:30; Wednesday, 12 to 1 _______________
ABE THEY WORTH WHILE?
As the semester exams begin to loom up ngniu as tlic dominating 
factors oji our young lives, we once more wonder ii they are worth
while. .
We NRR two reasons J!or giving an exam. Tlio one that is most 
important to ourselves is that iI. compels ns to review our work. It 
enables us to connect each days work and it brings to us a realization 
of ivliat it is all about. The other reason lias one beneficiary, the 
prof. It decides for him whether the student shall pass or not. 
Whether you will be an engineer or go back home as deficient in 
intellect depends on theso four hour periods held at tho end of each 
semester.
Are they worth it? Do theso exams indicato the degree ot 
absorption or whether a man is fit to stay in school? Being students 
working under such conditions, we think we are qualified to speak 
and speak with a degree of authority and wc aguiu eonseicntiously 
and unobtrusively say, no.
A good grade in exams depends not only upon the amount and 
kind of study but also upon any number ol! factors; whether it is wet, 
dry, cold or warm, whether the Follies are in town or your friend 
from home is visiting in the citywhether your monthly check arriv
ed on time or it was necessary to have night sessions, whether your 
best girl dimmed you or your wife refused to get breakfast for you.
All of those factors and many more determine whether the grade 
is to be an 11 or an A. And because these factors are not taken into 
consideration, we believe that exams uro not worth the time it takes 
to give them.
While we do not expect to see this school without exams for 
many years to come, we are hopeful because wo do not want our sons 
and daughters to go through tho same tilings we did.
Calendar of Student Events
Basket Ball 
Bfjskot Bull 
Basitoli Bull
; Till! USD AY AtyD FRIDAY, DKCBMpB 15th mid ,16th
PlayvilDisciple .............................:...... .tea Theater, - 8.45'
Tooli--I.*Hl; Cosmopolitan Club Coatwii Party.........................IJ'.iiion, 8:15
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 271-h  ;
Touh vs, Fi ros I,one.............................................A kron , Ohio
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 281,h
-Tech VH. Qooclyoar..............................................Akron, Ohio
TILIJRSD/YY, DECEMBER 20th 
Tool) va, Michigan A'i'iunltiiral Co I logo....Lansing, Mich. 
FRIDAY AND SATURDA Y, DECEMBER 3()th and Mat
Baalcbl; Ball- -Tech vs, I), ol Michigan......................Ann Arbor, Midi.
TUESDAY", JANUARY 8, 11)22 
Day mid Night, NEXXTISI Com monco....................................Four Schools
entire cunt aro a wilful wapto ol! 
nono-putty,
Mr, WykolT trlklng and Imnglmv 
tlvo netting of a nltfhtmaro-llko meval town with stoop pointed roofls 
and orookod dormer windows, wan 
ono of tho feature of tho produc
tion though It mippUod a noto of 
fantasy wiiloh In hardly to be found 
in the text. Tho con turnon, frojn do
nigli of Mr. .Tono and Mr, Jennlngn, a freo, very free adaptation 
ol' lilftoonth Century co tu mo woro 
amusing and ingonlonu and added 
considerably to the success of tho 
performance.
ARTS THEATER
NOTICES
Too little in known of the actual 
method of roproijuntatlon of the
iaiicou and Interludes of .the curly 
Fifteenth Century to make an arch
aeological problem of any modern 
production of Pierre Patolln; there*
Ikoro the producer of today ha al
most a much liberty In tho matter 
of Interpretation an If'It wore , the 
work of a modern writer.
This venerable piece till hold u 
place in the regular repertory of 
^ho compdlo francalso. iiror the 
Fronicih audience Putelln, tho Draper, 
the Judge and tho Shepherd are nil 
easily recognized types, and the
piece is generally treated as o 
more or less  realistic study of peasant craftiness and greed. Here and 
at the present time, the typesi are 
no longer recognizable, and the pres
ent producer, Mr. Viehman, has pre
ferred to legard Pierre Patelln 
farce, pure and simple, a farce, ever 
of the "slap-stick variety. Judging 
hy the uproarious reception given it
by the audience lastl week,, the ex- Friday, December 16.
periment is fully justified. This pro- Plebe discussion group under A1 
duction of Patelin is less suggestive Mays, meeting- every Friday in "Y 
of France and' the Fifteenth Century | club, will not meet until January 6, 
than It is of Hollywood and the, 1922.
present year, of Grace. , The intro-1 All organizations or groups are re
duction of runaway Fords or custard quested to notify L. Hertzman, The 
pies or the sudden appearance of Tartan, Box 173, C. I. T. Post Office, 
Ben Turpin would hardly have of dates of meetings at earliest poscome as a surprise. The old play, slblo time, 
thus amazingly brought up to date,
Wednesday, December 14.
Professor Simpson's discussion 
group will meet In Room 121-A (Y. M, 
C. A. Club Room) at 12:30, for discus
sion of Ancient Manuscripts.
Y. M. C. A. swimming party at the 
Schenley High School, Bellefield and 
Center, at 7:30.
COMMENTSROAMINS
THE JOURNALIST'S CREED
I believe in tho profession of Jour
nalism.
hellovc that the public Journal 1
Only three more days to go. Then 
tuck that muchly worn. Time table 
in your pocket. Pick up you ba/. 
And get the first train lor home. 
Couldn't work for a week. Think* 
a public trust; that all connected with Jng about the approach of this very
it are, to the full measure of their 
responsibility, trustees for the public; 
that acceptance of lesser service than 
the public service ls betrayal of this 
trust.
I believe that clear thinking and 
clear statement, accuracy and fair
ness are fundamental to good Journal
ism, .
I believe that a journalist should 
write only what ho holds in his heart 
to bo true.
I believe that suppression of the 
nows for any other consideration than 
the welfare of society lo Indefensible.
I believe that no ono should write 
as a journalist what he would not say 
as a gentleman; that bribery by ones 
own pockotbook Is as much to be I
time. Free from all the conspiruig. 
Maggie Mjirpbs you have a faint 
thrill. With the thot of seeing once 
again. 1 he old home town girl. 
The folks. Even your ol pal Nero.
The folks meet, you at tho station. 
How proud ot their darling boy. 
Home for the holidays." As the 
town journal announces. Then you 
sit down to a monstrous beef stake. 
An' gosh, how good It tastes. Yo.i 
eat 'till you're more 'n full. Prlrn up 
in a rush. Arrive promptly at eight. 
An' find the family has been glvon 
orders. To vacate the parlor.
Then yoa tell her all about. How 
j glad they were you came to Tech.
I Just wouldn't have known what to
... . i . . ,, . . ,  do without you. Except for the
Vie.7#0K)Ofi Sophomore. Then she tells you or another that individual response | ,  , , , ... ,
bllity may not bo escaped by pleading ST 1(> ome ** .baaJ7'thoutanother Instruction or anothor'B at \ '\ A" ,iu ^ wl!en you
vldonds e 1 0 Mu8gle Murph you
I believo that advertising, nows and 'W,t 0,1 tho trai,n- W1*h a gEil,ty 
editorial columns should allko servo I Hcl0"c0/u a ",rm r,;s0lve' fo
the best interest ot the readers; that never fall3r aeam- Tllon lhB I>ower
a single standard of helpful truth and 
clearness should prevail for all; that 
the. supreme test of good journalism 
Is the measure of Its public service.
I believe that the journalism which 
succeeds bestand best deserves suc
cessfears God and honors man; is 
stoutly independent, unmoved l;y 
pride of opinion or greed of power; 
constructive, tolerant, but never care
less; self-controlled, patient; always 
respectful of Its readers, but always 
unfrald; is quickly indignant at in
justice; is unswayed by the appeal 
ot privilege or the clamor of the mob; 
seeks to glyo every man a chance 
and, as far as law and honest wages 
and recognition of human brotherhood 
can make it so, an equal chance; is 
profoundly patriotic, 'while sincerely 
promoting International good will and 
cementing world comradeship; Is a 
journalism of humanity, of and for 
today's world.McGill Daily.
FRATERNITIES
THETA XI
The following men were initiated 
into Pi chapter, Thota XI, December 
3, 1921: Russel Pittman, Sterling,
111.; Jack Ferguson, Clearfield, Pa.; 
Win. H. Ryan, Domino, Ohio; James 
Sumpter, Falrmount, W. Va.
A danco at the chapter houso Fri
day evening, December 9, wits large
ly attended and In all very success
ful. A number of the alumni were 
present, Prof. and Mrs. Donnell 
woro chaperons. Hughes furnished 
xcQllont mus'lo.
KAPPA SIGMA
Kappa Sigma announces' tho ini
tiation of Konnotli William Dockwood Iasi; week.
A very successful and enjoyable 
dance was hold at tho chaptor 
house on Friday ovonlng, Docombor 9.
IOTA SIGMA DELTA
Tho following mon woro initiated 
Into tho frutornlty last woolc: Wil
liam It. Groor, Wilbur It. Cooper, 
Daniel 11. Rood, and Prof. Charles J, 
Taylor of tho Collogo of Fino Arts.
On Saturday ovonlnf a Christmas 
dampo wan hold at tho houso. Dec
orations wore In holiday colors, rod 
and green. Among tho guostsi -wore 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Smith and 
Mr, Charles W. Darlcln. Kovack's 
Orchestra furnished tho music for 
tho occasion.
goes off the, lights go out.???
You know it must be Xmas time. 
Cause its after one. An Pa hasn't 
hollered d'wn yet). But you don't 
icare. With no eight thirty you can 
stroll down town when you please.' 
With your coat thrown open. Your 
hands in your pockets. An tell them 
all about the doings at College. At 
the local P. O. With Hiram looking 
on in amazement.
'Member how it used to be that 
way with you once. But now youve 
outgrown that. CausOi you'r only a 
PLEBE onct.
Washington
Conference
DELTA PHI DELTA
By Colonel Frederick Palmer.
(Colonel Frederick Palmer, the 
Dean of American' War Correspond
ents, has been through every war of 
Importance from the Greco-Turkish 
War of 1897, down to date. 1914-16 
he was the accredited American Cor
respondent with the British Army; 
1917-18 Lieutenant Colonel A. E. F. 
Author, America in France, "The 
Last Shot, "The Folly of Nations" 
(1921), etc.)
Washington, December 9.it has 
been a week of progress whose result 
in one respect may be announced aft
er this is written in the acceptance 
of the four jHwOr treaty by Britain, 
America and Japan. , ThiB treaty is 
to take the |place of the Anglo-Japanese alllaiK',* in which either nation 
was to come to the aid of the other 
upon the others demand In the event 
of war, Britain ma(]e the alliance as 
a counter against Russia when Russia, 
in tho days of her imperial might, 
threatened China and British India. 
She renewed it afterward against 
Germany and in the late war Japan 
came to her aid against Germany. It 
had a year yot to run wlion this conforenco met.
Tho proposed four power treaty, 
whlph Is to take Its place does not re
quire that, any ono of tho four nations 
should come to tho aid of ono or two 
or all of tho others In case of war, 
a contingency which seems wholly 
out of tho quostlon. in the immediate 
future as thoro aro no other nations 
which have Important interests In the 
Far East except little Holland which 
is porfoctly content to bo left secure 
by the big nations In her posssesion 
of her Dutch East Indies.
The sense of tho now treaty is "As 
you are. All.\four powers agree, as 
far 'iis the Pacific ocet).n is concerned, 
not to covet their neighbors property 
and to guarantee one another, security 
in their present territorial disposi
tions. We are to be guaranteed by 
mutual agreement in our position in 
the Philippines and Guam, and Japan 
in her .possession of Port Arthur and 
the British of Hongkong.
Thus the plan is to put an end to 
worry, suspicion and intrigue which 
nourish international enmity. Canada 
and the United States have been livBill Says
Would it not be proper for 
head of each department in 
school to make it a point to visit the 
class room at various times and ac
quaint himself with the conditions 
students are facing?- They would see 
things as they really exist in the 
class room and might as a result in
crease the efficiency of the teaching 
staff.
Most , of us probably consider our 
faculty to be composed almost entire
ly of men and women who are very 
capable of giving first-class instruc
tion in the subject which they teach. 
On the whole the student body is 
fortunate in having at their disposal, 
men who are. so well versed in the 
scope of their work.
However, It is only natural that 
among all groups in life, whether they 
be professors, or people of other, pro
fessions, that there be a few who 
not measure up to the standard recog
nized as that of the better type. Be
ing not unlike other schools in that 
respect, we have instructors among 
us of that type and as a result there 
are some of us who are unforunate 
enough to be under their instruction.
As students we are entitled to the 
best in the line of teaching and have 
a right to demand that our teachers 
bo men capable of teaching others. 
For that reason it seems that some 
method of looking after the students 
Interest in the class room be taken. 
An unexpected visit in the various 
classes by the heads of the depart
ments would certainly go a long way 
toward bringing before the students, 
professors and instructors who are 
ably fitted to impart the right kind of 
knowledge to one in training for his 
lifes work.
Getthe New TECH 
Record
-Tlie TwoPHYSilCS DEPARTMENT 
DISCUSSIONS
(Continued From Page One.) 
noon Mr. W. W. Headings discussed 
some work by Bryan on the electrical 
conductivity of flames containing, salt 
vapors. It has been found that for a 
number of salts the conductivity of 
the flame varies as the cube root of 
the concentration of the * salt in the 
flame.
On November 30 Professor H. L. 
Moore discussed some of Millikans 
recent work on photoelectric phenom
ena. This work throws much light 
on the subjects of icontact difference 
of potential and photoelectric emis
sion. The same afternoon Mr. R. L. 
Owen described some work by Benade on thermoelectric' phenomena in 
iron and mercury. Effects which have 
been considered as due to an inverse 
Thomson effect in the iron are ex
plained by consideration of the effects 
of mechanical stresses. On Decem
ber 7 Professor T. C. MacKay describ
ed some work that lie had done on 
the Iiall effect in iron, nickel, cobalt 
and I-Ieuslers alloy. He illustrated a 
method of magnetic testing and de
scribed some recent; work on mag
netic analysis by Spooner and Kinnard.
On Wednesday, December 14, Mr. 
Paul Crago will discuss the detecting 
efficiency of the resistance capacity 
coupled electron tube amplifier and 
Mr. Gerald Harper  will explain MichelsonS\method of measuring stel
lar diameters. The meeting will be 
as usual at 4:30 p. m. in Room 113, 
Science. All interested are invited to 
attend and to participate in the dis
cussions.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
SONGS
Dear Old Tech
-------and-------
Alma Mater99
-------Sung by-------
THE CRITERION QUARTETTE WITH BAND 
ACCOMPANIMENT
Y 5 S 
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
p:mi::i
BELLEFIELD 
[SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARY
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes
I Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
RlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllUIIIIlllllllUllllllllllDlilllllllil
Tho studonts of the University of 
California are making a drive for a) 
million dollars for a memorial sta
dium. It is to seat sixty thousand 
people.
c/NDERSONS
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
SmilllllllllUlllllllllltllllllllllHllllllllllllllllIllllllllUIIIIIIINIICIIllllli; Jllillllllllllllllllllllllllll
Au. Informal danco was held Friday 
evening, December 2, at tho chaptor 
house on Buum boulevard. A most 
enjoyable evening was spent by all 
present. Music for the occasion was 
furnished by the Hughes'1 Orchestra.
The following men have been 
pledged to Delta Phi Delta: R. W.
Merten, Science, '23; Nick" Carter,
Science, '24;' J. M. Guthrie, Science,1 inS as neighbors on this basis for 
'24. over a hundred years. Considering
that the main object of the conference
TAU GAMMA PHI
proved a delightful entertainment 
and Miss Phoobe Slovens, ono of 
tho most perspicacious1 of tho young
er school of critics, undoubtedly 
.voiced tho opinion of tho rest of 
the audlonco when she pronounced 
it "fino,"
Tho actors piled thoir coniody with 
great vigor. Mr. Hertz gave u porfermauco of tho name part that It 
would not bo dlsrcspoctful to desig
nate a ''jazzy," and was ably sotv 
ondod by Mr,. Lubln as tho Draper. 
The burden of the comedy falls on 
these two actors capable shoulders, 
though excellent work was also done 
by Miss Zelle as Madame Patelln 
and Messrs. Lazarus and McAteor as 
the Judge and the Shepherd. Two al
together delectable pieces of panto
mime were supplied by the Courtez
an, played by Miss Harman and the 
Cat, the omission of whose name 
from the program was a grave over
sight. A great deal of praise is 
due to the very spirited acting of 
the Crowd. Might it be suggested, 
however, that, thougliXone false nose 
may be funny, false Vnoses on the
DARN BILL1
Tho other day 
Tho cook at. ono of 
Tlio' Boarding Clubs 
Rushed
Into tho dining rooms, 
And said:
"Boys,
Thoro aro threo big 
Rats In the pantry;
What will I do?"
Bill said, after 
Swallowing tho mouthful 
Of fostlve prunes,
Which ho was chewing, 
"Shut tho door 
And
Starve 'em to death! 
Darn Bill!
was supposed to be naval reduction, 
an agreement upon this treaty before 
naval reduction is accepted by the 
other nations may seem peculiar. OurTau Gamma Phi will give a Christ
mas party for members and pledges 
at tho houso on Wednesday evening, I 1,aval I>rPsals, having given proof 
December 14. The secrecy and ex-lot our lack ot ESressive aims, there 
citemont involved in the planning 'has ensued a session oE all the 
of this party indicate that something 
good is forthcoming. All Tau Gams 
will be at homo on this particular
/ 11 ..... minimi'-
Here is the first attribute 
of a citizen of the world. 
Few books can impart 
it, yet it comes natural
ly with college training. 
Such easy familiarity 
with the good things of 
life leads naturally to 
Melachrino, the one ciga
rette sold the world over
night,
Mr. Arthur Edstrom, alumnus, left 
last week for his homo in Connecti
cut.
Mr. Edwin R. Kime, 22, will 
leave 011 Friday, t.lio 17th, to enter 
10 Michigan College of Minos'.
Wo announce tho pledging of Mr. 
Paul C. Gannon, '23, Scince; Mr. 
Tlios. J. Dompsoy,. '25, Industries.
SIGMA EPSILON PHI
conflicting interests of the nations 
with a view to composing differences.
The treaty is the political ground 
work for the settlement of details of 
the Far. Eastern problem and of naval 
reduction. China which has been the 
source of strife is to be freed by the 
treaty from danger of further aggres
sion on the part of any one of the 
four powers. Thus having agreed 
upon "As you are, without- further 
exploitation of China at one anothers 
expense, of attempting further 'terri
torial aggrandizement in any form, 
continuance of tho present era of ex
travagant. naval competition ceaaos to 
have an excuse,* because no can^o for 
Sigma Epsilon Phi will hold an war remains. Such seems tho logic 
Informal dantco at. thoir houso on of the present, procedure of tho negoTliursday, Docombor 15. Music will tiations wliilo wo wait upon further
by Paul Irwin Orc.li-1)0 furnished 
ostra.
Wallace Dartholl spent tho week
end with friend in Ohio.
The honor system governing exam
inations will be discontinued indefin
itely at the academic college of the 
University of Minnesota the student 
council have voted. Discovery and 
trial of many cribbing cases in the 
last semesters examinations wrere 
responsible for the action.
I am a pledgo to Pio Damma.
I am a -pledge, yes its true.
I cannot sit in a cozy Morris chair 
'Cause it hurts me there
Ive been paddled bare.
I got too fresli with my Brothers 
They paddled me night and day.
Id love to pad myself with lots 
Of wool and asbestos 
So I could get rested
All by myself.
Reasselaer.
developments.
A DUET
A dillur, a dollar 
This full-dress collar 
I wish It were In Hades.
It hurts my neck 
It looks like hock 
And just to please the ladies.
Washington Dirge.
I must confess 
This backless dress 
Detracts from all my Joy,
It must be tight 
To stay up right 
And just tii please a boy!
Da* mouth Jack o Lanter.n.
I -/
Remember that Melachrino is a master 
blend of on ly the finestT urkishT obaccos 
-as originated by Miltiades Melachrino. 
Egyptian cigarettes are simply those 
that originated in Egypt. But the to
bacco is what you want to know about 
 and if its Melachrino  its right
cMelachrino
.. / ' 'T!  carette Sold the World Over 1
f -^rs are ' /

---------------------------------------------------

FORBES, Near Murray 
Pittsburgh, Penna.

SEE US 
About our special offer 
Four Suits Pressed $1.50 
AIKEN FORBES TAILORING 
COMPANY 
5817 FORBES STREET 
Phone Hazel 3601
PLAID ATHLETICS
-LOOR TEAM  
PLAYS MICH.
Team Plays in Youngstown 
and AkronFormer Tech 
Star Plays Against Plaid
The Carnegie Tech basket ball 
team will. officially open their sea
son on Monday after Christmas. They 
will start a trip on which, trip six 
games will be played. Three indus
trial teams will he played, one in 
Youngstown, two in Akron, while two 
games will he played against the Uni
versity of Michigan, a conference 
team, and one with) the Michigan Aggies.
Very little is known about the 
teams of the Firestone and Goodyear 
Rubber Companies and the teams of 
the two Michigan sohools. Sufficient 
to say that Michigan is a member of 
the Bib Ten Conference, and for that 
reason can be counted upon present
ing a good team to oppose the Techites.
The game at Youngstown is ar
ranged by the Youngstown Clan with 
the Travis-Pemberton team of that 
town. This, team is composed of a 
number of stars who formerly have 
played on various college teams. The 
personnel of the team is as follows: 
Matheson, Bucknell, 3 years; Onorato, American Legion; McPhee, Car
negie Tech; Gaskeen, Syracuse; Ken
nedy, Lehigh; Wilson, Penn State, 3 
years (captain); and White, Oberlin.
The Youngs town Clan requests that 
all Carnegie Tech men who live with
in a radius of Youngstown, make an 
honest effort to attend this game, 
and give the Tech team the support 
it deserves as it opens their basket 
ball season. The game is to be play
ed in an auditorium with a seating 
capacity of 2,700, which therefore as
sures everyone of a goodi seat.
- This is for the ladies as .well as 
the gentlemen. When your suit
needs cleaning or pressing call
Schenley 3S9. We will call for it 
and deliver it. Our work is the
best,, our service quick, our prices 
reasonable. Miss OLeary, 3933 
Forbes street.
ELKTON 
^10
HpHiS Cordite CorJ dovanfail and winter 
oxfor^, with its hevy sole, 
beved edj and distinctiv 
pattern is.just the sort ot 
shoe that wel-drest collej 
men instinctivly select.
*nr\yVn ot
George E. Welde
At Carnegie Tech 
December 16.
TjuxWSwdivvers Jhoe-s
General OfFises : i'll Duane street 3>iew York. City
Slores in Jvianhallan,
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits.......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Inter-Frat. B. B.
League Meets
Officers Elected and Schedule 
Committee Appointed
The Inter-Fraternity Dormitory 
Basket Ball League held its first 
meeting of the 1921-22 season last 
Friday afternoon down in the Science 
Club Room. Thirteen, fraternities 
and one dormitory were represented. 
With President Heiler presiding, the 
nomination and election of officers 
for the present season was held.
The following officers were elected: 
President, C. R Burgis; secretarytreasurer, H. H. Wilson. The out
going secretary-treasurer made a fi
nancial report, showing a good bal
ance with which to open the season. 
The following schedule committee 
was appointed by President Burgis: 
W. J. Heiler, chairman; B. F. Powrie 
and J. A. Harvey. The question of a 
separate dormitory league was dis
cussed. It is expected that the 
schedule will be drawn up this week 
with the opening game coming soon 
after the, Christmas vacation. All 
managers of fraternity or dormitory 
teams must have the required $10 de
posit in the hands of the secretarytreasurer by December 16.
NEWMAN CLUB WINS
THEIR FIRST GAME
- The Newman Club gave the Follansbee Bros. Company team a lacing 
Saturday night on the Newman floor 
to the tune of 53-22. The game, des
pite the one-sided score, was fast and 
interesting, the team work of both 
sides beiiig extreme/ly brilliant. The 
clubbers had the better range of the 
cage and in the final half turned the 
game into a field day. McDonnell and 
Roberts scintillated on the forward 
line, snagging baskets with surpris
ing regularity. -The half ended 19-14, 
but the Newman boys left the visitors 
standing still in the second. One foul 
goal was the sum of Follansbees scor
ing in fTie third quarter. Bowman was 
the whole works for the visitors.
ROBERT L. GIBSON
CAPTAIN BASKET BALL
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
OUR FOOTBALL MEN
Tc the Students
Fellows, we have a great football team in school now. What are we 
doing to keep them liere? Surely, it is the sentiment of the'entire studeut. 
body to keep them. How can it be done? Only one way'good treatment 
and fair treatment.
The GOOD is up to the studentsthe FAIR to the faculty and athletic 
administration. Of the latter, we have no fear. We realize that the faculty 
has to uphold the scholastic standards of TECH, but even so, we know that, 
in so doing, a square deal will be given.
But we do not know that the students will lill their part. As the foot
ball season passes intc\ history, football men are likely to be forgotten. With 
the fresh memory of their achievements on the gridiron having faded, like
wise the enthusiasm fades. We cannot and must not permit this.
Human beings are funny. If 1 like you, you like me; if you treat me 
fair, I treat you fair; and if I dislike you, you dislike me.
So, fellows, recognizing this, throughout the year, there should be enter
tainments for the football men, and thereby show them how we stand. 
Dinners, theater parties and dances with the football team as guests of 
honor! There are the fraternities, clubs, organizations and dormitoriesit 
is up to them to do this entertaining. Whenever there Is a dance on the 
campus, why not send complimentary tickets to the football men?.
Keep the football men in the limelight!
And now
To the Football Men Themselves.
This 'column Is not going to "preach upon the benefits in the way of 
education that Carnegie Tech holds in store for you. In so doing, it would 
only be insinuating that you are ignorant and unable to appreciate that. This 
is not the caseyou men are fully appreciative of what TECH has in store 
for you.
But perhaps it is not so much impressed upon you of just what you are 
to TECH, and therefore just how much we want you to stick with us.
Upon your action depends quite a lot, the outside opinion, the opinion 
prospective football men will get. If you leave school nowwhat? Noav 
men will wonder whylet that not be the case. Returnstick by us, and 
show that TEfcH is the best of ALL schools.
Men come to TECH because they are studiously inclined and not "footbally inclined. Which type do you think the public admires? Which team?
CHRISTMAS
Christmas vacation is almost here, and as we go forth to our home towns, 
we carry with us a fresh memory of a great football team, and of a great 
spirit. This football team is here at Carnegie Tech, and so is the spirit. So, 
fellows, as we go home, let us NOT keep that spirit to ourselves, but FLING 
IT OUTtell the world about Carnegie Tech. Each and every one of us 
is a part of TECH, being scattered throughout the countryeach one of us 
has a message to give, and this is to tell what a great school is Carnegie 
Tech. Dont fall down on your assignment!
TENNIS
Talking to Eddie Hirsch, manager of the Alumni Tennis Team:
. "Eddie: Colonel Brooks is shaking in his boots these days.
Me: Why?
"Eddie: I just told him how bad the alumni tennis team is going to
trim his tennis team next spring.
Me: Huh, I know a better joke than that.
All of which reminds me, does anybody else know any more good jokes?
WONDER WHAT SHE MEANT!
Was talking to a PITT girl the other night. She wouldn't tell mo what 
all PITT students thought of all TECII students, because it was so bad she 
didnt want to hurt my feelings.
Now, "aint that funny, cause I am sure thats not tho way TECH stu
dents look at PITT students!
(No, that's not sarcasm.)_________ _______, ____
EXCHANGES
WRESTLING PRACTICE
BEGUN AT PRINCETON
Light workouts are being hold for 
the Princeton wrestling squad pre
vious to the arrival of tho coach. 
iMany of last seasons match winners 
have been iost by graduation and of 
the thirty men reporting for 
tice two are members of last yoars 
team. The squad is further hand
icapped by the dearth of material 
in the heavyweight division. With 
but one heavyweight reporting so 
lari hopes rest upon a sufficient num
ber of football men turning out at 
the close of the football season to 
fill up tho vacancies of this' class.
EMSSSSM3MSM3J3MSJSMSMSSJSM2/S/SJ
BELLE BROTHERS
"The Service Drug Store. 
5805 FORBES STREET 
Near Murray Avenue 
Prescriptions Our Specialty. 
Hazel 3615.
luuuuuuuuuuuus,Hap,,8En
A. WALTER, Propr.
I 116 OAKLAND AVENUE
iiiituunuttnnnmtniiu 
MURRAY RESTAURANT  
Squirrel Hills Exclusive Dining j} 
Room. j*
Corner
FORBES AND MURRAY AVE. H 
\ Squirrel Hill f*
Hazel 9373.
Guard
With the football season over all 
attention is turned to the coming 
basket ball season. The Tech Quin
tet will be captained, this year, by 
Robert L. Gibson, Industries, Junior. 
Gibson first played on the varsity 
team the year before last, after hav
ing made an excellent showing on the 
Freshman team. He was one of the 
few veterans back on last years, 
squad, and his steady playing won 
him the captaincy. Although small, 
he is. very fast. He has the interest of 
the team and school at heart and the 
Five will be well captained this sea
son by the snappy little guard of last 
year. He is a member pf the Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity.
ATHLETIC TRAINING
(By Prof. Fay C. Bartlett.)
Mental alertness, Is an important 
factor In all forms of athletics.
Long careful. training is more val
uable than short severe training. 
Coaching is teaching.
Exercise on apparatus develops 
courage,, promptness and good judg
ment.
A person trained in gymnasium 
lias greater strength of will than 
others.
Basket ball develops, endurance; 
football is not a game of cowards; 
fencing develops grace and ease of 
manner; 'boxing develops self-con
fidence and reliance.
The man who does a little in 
many sports enjoys life more than 
the man who specializes in one.
No director, coach, teacher or 
trainer knows so much that he can 
afford to stop seeking further knowlfedge.
In sport expect the unexpected 
and always be prepared.
fn sport it is hard to defeat man
power.
The athlete who stars in any 
sport must be a fraction of a sec
ond ahead of the game.
In football why s^iy "Hold them 
why not say "Take the ball away?Lehigh Brown & White.
GIRLS COMPUTE LIVING COST
Baltimore, Md.Gouchor College 
Seniors -have just controverted to 
their own satisfaction, the clmrgo 
made by speakers at tlio recent 
eugenist convention in Now York 
that the American college girl is a 
slackerthat she i& unwilling to 
marry unless she dan have many 
comforts and luxuries.
A referendum vote taken among 
the 103 Seniors showed that they 
were of tho opinion that a couple 
j could marry safely and live in a 
city on an incomo of i?'18 weekly.
Ono girl thought :she could live In 
comfort at about $115 a weak, while 
another, who evidently had given tlio 
subject careful consideration1 by 
making out a budget, said elio was 
-willing to talco a chance at $850 or 
$1,000 a year.
Only six girls figured they would 
noed $4,000 a year or ovor. Twenty* 
four made estimates of $2,000. Four 
thought they might bo able to strUg 
gle along on .$1,500.
Ono Senior estimated it would 
cost $3,000 a year in Washington or 
New York but only $2,(00 In middle 
western cities. Anothor thought 
$2,500 would be needed If she woro 
the wire of an army or navy officer.
Almost every ono emphasized tho 
point that the success of the venturo 
would depend largely on economics 
and good team work by1 husband 
and wife.
RIGHT FORMATION
BASKET BALL NEWS
During the past week tlio basket 
ball candidates were divided into two 
squads. Coa'ch Iddings fcoaching ono 
half of tho men in the afternoon and 
Assistant Coach Waddell handling 
tho remaining portion in tho even
ing. This step was taken because tho 
squad was too largo for one man to 
handle and with this new arrange
ment tho ability of tho men can bo 
bettor judged. Coach Iddings now 
has tho following men from last years 
squad practicing every afternoon; 
Capt. Gibson, Dosey, Boll. Allen. Godden and Pittman, while (jho list of tho 
now men includes Alexander, New
man, Sawyer, Sandomire, Gallagher, 
Berno. Anderson, Potter, Moessner 
and Hughes.
Every day Iddings divides tho men 
into two teams and then has them 
play against each other, this method 
showing the men at their true worth. 
Each men will bo judged entirely on 
his ability to play basket bailil and 
for this reason the men that compris
ed last years squad will have to fight 
hard to retain tlieir position on this 
years team. It is impossible at this 
time to name the men who will bo 
taken on the first trip as they will not 
be picked until the latter part of this 
week.
Practice will bo held every after
noon until next Friday, when school 
closes for tho Christmas holidays, and 
tlio team will re-assemble in Youngs
town, Ohio, to play their first game 
on December 2Gth, with a team repre
senting tlio Travis-Pemberton club.
FORGET IT
If you see a young man ahead oi 
tho crowd 
Marching along with Ills ' head held 
so proud,
And you^ know' of a tale, which if 
spread around 
Would cause that proud head in ang
uish to bo bowed;
Its a mighty good tiling to forget It.
Buchnellian.
| SKI BO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
| CLEAN,
WHOLESOME
USSO
 Served at best prices 
 CIGARS CANDY;!;^ j;
RIFLE CLUB TOURNA
MENT NEARS CLOSE
The Rifio Club tournaments are 
(Progressing to a successful finish. 
Many good men have been up to tho 
rango and should bo material for tho 
team. This weeks high score was 
9-1 prone. Sewart was tho man 
who made it.
During the past woelc tho Univer
sity of Pennsylvania was scheduled 
Tho teams which Tech will compete, 
with are among tho ibest in the 
country. The following soliaduilo 
gives an idea of wlial: a task lias 
been set. for our team:
Harvard, January 20.
Lehigh, February IS.
Yale, February 21.
M. I. T., February 25.
Colgate, March 11.
Princeton, March IS. 
Columbia, March 2(7. 
University of Penn., April S.
Gentleman (at the door): "Is May 
in?
Ala Id (haughtily): "May who?" 
Gentleman (pooved): "Mayonaiso! 
Maid (shutting tlio door): Mayon
aiso is dressing!
(Business .of falling down stops.) 
Voo Doo.
"Why do you seem to fussed? 
"Oh, I always feel self-conscious In 
an evening gown.
"Sort of dressed up and no place
to go?
"No. * * * Nothing on for the even
ing.Frivol.
BIG SPECIAL10 DAYSEg CLrAINI-UP
Shoes Broken Sizes
Mens 
Regular $12 Values
Cordovan, Tan 
Calf and Vicl 
Kid, English and 
Broad Toe 
Laces. Theres 
one Stetson In 
this lot. Sizes, 
AA-A-B 5 to 11
Mens 
High 
Shoes 
Mens 
Regular $10 Values
Tan Calf Bl
cher. Medilum 
Too, Tan Calf 
Bal English 
Last. Narrow 
Widths. AA-A-B 
5 to 11
ir oc JAJ.JJ oc
tbS.OJ BLaUEnNfla'r M.OJ
1 tJJ Widths. AA-A-B 1 TT
P. Ludebuehl
Penn and Frankstown& Son
East Liberty
t'J!lllllllllllllllllllIIIIiUlllillllllinilII9l!llII!lllIIIIIII!lllllllllll!lllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllUIIIIll[!IIIUIIIIIIIIIIll!lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
BUY RADIO SUPPLIES 
FROM A RADIO STORE 
PRICES EIGHT BEST SERVICE
SETS$10 TO $165 
RADIO HEADQUARTERS 
6014 CENTRE AVENUE EAST LIBERTY j
STUDENT WANTED TO REPRESENT US AT TECH
MiiiiiiiiiiipiiB^ daentaSHIH
AUFHAiiER & EYANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
The best place for amiiBernentThe best place for exerciseIs AtDUQUESNE GARDEN
The worlds fmost ice skating rink.
For party reservations call Patii Qualtrougli,  Public sessions 2:30
Manager, Schonlcy 3106
McGill- Universitys hockey team 
will meet four teams representing 
colleges of the States this winter. 
These - four are Cornell, Dartmouth, 
Boston College and Harvard. Besides 
they will play teams from
What's easier to. spot than a ver
dant Frosh? A newly initiated fra
ternity man, of course. It was one J; ese ,, _ _
ot such that hesitatingly accosted us|the colleseS of panada,
last evening With the plea- that we 
insert the following. Tho it possess 
no virtue other than its. sincerity, .it 
deserves the few square inches we 
give it. It is sung to the tune of 
All By Myself."
PROMOTE
COMMUNITY 
PROGRESS 
Patronize
THE ORPHIUIYI THEATER
Forbes and Murray
A New Show every day. |
Similes of the present-day story 
writers are running liot. Take a1 
'slant at some of the following from 
the Boston Transcript:
Her lips quivered like a light 
auto.
He edged nearer to her until ho 
was almost as close as the air in 
the subway.
"But his mind, like her face, was 
made up.
.He gazed anxiously at her face, 
the way a person In a taxi gazes 
at the face of the meter.
Wrestling rules bar the strangle 
holdwhy not the same for danc
ing?
The football game was over and at the 
parlor grate 
A maid and long-haired youth were 
lingering rather late.
They talked of goals and touchdowns, 
but found it rather tame,
Till Cupid put his nose-guard on and 
butted in the game.
Quoth he, It's mighty funny if I 
dont arrange a match.
So he lined the couple up, and made 
them toe the scratch.
The youth was growing nervous 
neath the weight of new-found 
bliss
And he kinder thought the scrimmage 
ought to end up with a kiss. 
He charged upon' the center, he tack
led left and right,
And the way they held that chair for 
downs was simply out of sight. 
He tried an osculation, just an ama
teur affair,
But lost it on a fumble and Instead 
it struck the air.
Then as he landed on his ear, he 
heard the maiden say,
/Youre penalized for holding, Jim;
likewise for offside play.
With set teeth he tried another; this 
time succeeded fine.
For he scored an easy touchdown on 
the crimson two-inch line.
And as they sat there by the grate, 
communing soul to soul,
The parlor door swung open and 
Father kicked tho Goal.
Widow.
T
HOUSANDS of smokers have proved itand now give the verdict 
to you  Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced  nonecan approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes
I, i.ii.i.i11 None has the delicious
FLAVOR of the finestTurkish 
None gives the ENJOY
MENT of the finest Turkish 
None will SATISFY you as 
will the finest Turkish 
None but the highest grade 
and personally selected 
Turkish tobaccos is used in 
MURAD.
To enjoy 100% pure Turkish 
at its VERY BESTto reach 
the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
 you have but to smoke 
MURAD
Try MURAD today and
Judge for 
Yourself/ 
Georgia Tech leads the South In 
point of scoring with a total of 325 
to 49 scored upon. The Golden Tor
nado is having another fine season 
and with the exception of the Penn 
State defeat has a real praise-worthy 
record.
"I hear that Oswald had an accl-j Bill Is a fine:>oy. He makes his
dent! | wav through school writing.
Yes. he slipped on his pajamas i How's that?T.
Exchange. | Writing his i'ather. .
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1921 THE TAR'i \ PAGE THREE

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY. DECEMBER 14, 1921
BEST WISHES FOR CHRISTMAS
CLAN NEWS
PITTSBURGH CLAN 
Tho regular monthly mooting of tlio 
Pittsburgh Clan wan hold in tho Ahnornbly room of tho Fort Pitt Hotel 
on Saturday, Decomber 10. Mr. John 
L. Porter, a momhor of tho Board of 
TruHtOGB, wan tho guont of honor.
J)r. Hainoruchhig mot with tho 
Alumni gymnaalum commlttoo on 
Thursday, December 8, to voice oh 
Joctlonn that havo boon mado by varlouii members of tho Board of Trustees 
on the location of tho gyinmiHlum 
which. la to bo back of Arts Collogo. 
Aftor hearing Dr. Hamorschlag tho 
Alumni committee In till of the opin
ion that the location docldod upon la 
tho beat avallublo Hite at the present 
time.
HARRISBURG CLAN 
Tho Harrisburg Clan will hold it 
annual Christmas dinner dunco on 
Tuesday, December 20, at the Colonial 
Country Club. Tho Clan will enter
tain aa thoir guoBtB all undorgraduatoB who will bo homo for the ChrlstmuB vacation.
PHILADELPHIA. CLAN 
The Philadelphia Clan held a dlnnor danco at the Arcadia Cafo on Sat
urday, December 10. Mr. G. L. Tilbrook, Alumni Secrotary, wub presont at tho mooting.
WASHINGTON CLAN 
Tho Waahlngton Clan hold a moot
ing on December i). Mr. M. 11. Wal
ton, BuporvlBor of equipment at Tech, 
was proBont at tho meeting.
All undergraduates living ln Boston 
and vicinity will be entertained at 
tlila affair.
BOSTON CLAN 
Tho BoBton Clan will hold a dinner 
danco during tho OhrlstmaB vacation.
ItOBultB of the above meetings will 
bo publlahed In a lator Ibbuo of tho Tar tun.
All OlanB that expect to hold moetIngH during the ChrlatinaB vacation 
plouao notify the Alumni ofllco bo that 
wo may got In touch with all undorgraduateB whoflo homoB are In your 
Clan city and notify them of tho moot
ing.
ERIE CLAN
Tho Erie Clan. Ib going to havo 
another Christina holiday party 
again this year. We trust tliat wo 
will receive the loyal support of 
both; girl and) follows at school 
now. Ea'di girl may invite a gentle
man friend and each fellow a lady 
friend.- Your friend does not necesHarily have to be a Carhegle man 
or -woman.
Our party till yoar is to be a 
danjolng party at Pulakos iITall, at 
l)2G State street, on Tuesday, D(> 
comber 27. Dancing 1b to start at 
eight-thirty and during the evening 
refreshments will bo served. The 
muslq is Lo be furnished by the 
Palace Trio, who have arranged a 
program of the latest numbers.
Kindly advise Harry 11. Weber of 
933 East Sixth streot, if you can 
attend and lots make this a big 
party to put Oarnoglo Clan among 
Erie for most collogo cluibs.
HARRISBURG CLAN
Dear Techito: "
Wo aro holding our annual Christ
mas party (Informal) at tho Colonial
.......JACQUES  DANCING ACADEMY I
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET .{.
Membor of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year, y
BELL. PHONE X
Clnnncn ench evening. Private lesaona dally, j*
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL 
County Club, Harrisburg, at'0:30 p. 
in., Tuesday evening, December 20.
if you attended this affair last 
year, it needs no introduction at 
this tlmo. Wo expect an oven larger 
attendance this year, and we 'are 
counting on you.
A doli/crtnus six course dinner will 
be served, at half after six o'clock. 
Following the dinner, thoro will be 
bowling, bllllurds, card and dancing 
a' first-class ja7.x orchestra has 
Iboen engaged and a real Tech JolllIIcation Is In tore for you.
This Is the Tech party of tho year 
for tho Harrisburg District and tho 
local clan members anticipate a 
largo , attendance of out-of-town 
Tecliltos and undergraduates who 
will be home for the holiday season. 
The Harrisburg Clan members will 
be pleased to entertain any out-oftown guests desiring to remain over 
night.
Each girl and boy Techlte is urged 
to attend oilier alone or with a 
friend.
The assessment, inaluding every
thing, will be $2.50 per plate.
Street cars marked "Lingelstown 
leave Market Square at 5:45 for the 
club.
Yours for Tech,
M. EDWIN GREEN, 
Chairman Committee on Arrang3- 
monts.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
On Wednesday, December 7, the 
Youngstown' Clan held a very inter
esting meeting, atended by seven 
teen members.. New by-laws were 
discussed, adopted, and put In final 
form.
Thoro was a very Interesting dis
cussion on the possibility of bring
ing tho Carnegie Tech basket ball 
team to Youngstown on Monday, De
cember 2G, to play the local team, 
known as tho Travls-Pembortona. 
This team is composed of an allstar group of ox-callego men, ovor 
which Tech may bo proud to sco'o 
a victory. MJcPhee, ex-Camegio 
Tech, playB on tho team.
All member* of the Youngstown 
class aro urged to attend tho regu
lar meeting of the Clan, and bring 
as many new members as possible.
CLANS, READ CAREFULLY
During tho football season there 
have been many complaints of Tech 
scores not being printed in eastern 
newspapers. This matter has been 
brought to tho attention of the alumni 
office many times and everything haB 
been done to Correct it but so far 
without result^. There Is every rea
son in tho world why Tech Bcores 
should bo in all tho leading newspa
pers In the country, because we now 
share In athletics with Class "A 
teams among tho foremost colleges.
We feel that this can ibe accom
plished If the Clans will only follow 
a suggestion which is: Write the as
sociated news or the different- news
papers of your Clan city, telling them 
yoif have a Carnegie Tech Club and 
that you would like to have Tech 
scores printed in their newspapers. 
Also include in tills letter any other 
information you feel will be of value 
to the institution. If this matter is 
brought to the attention of the vari
ous city newspapers at once, we feel 
that Tech will get Its share of pub
licity and you will be helping the 
school in a matter in which we have 
been unsuccessful heretofore.
ALUMNJ NOTICE
The Industries Board of Governors 
will meet in the Alumni oillce at 7:30 
p. m., Thursday, December 15, 1921.
The Science Board of Governors 
will meet In the Alumni office at 7:30 
p. m., Thursday, December 15, 1921.
Tho regular monthly meeting of the 
Alunmi Federation Board will be 
held in the Alumni office at 7:30 p. 
m., Monday, December 19, 1921.
INTERESTED IN BOXING
Philadelphia.More than 400 stu
dents at Penn are interested in box
ing and are being instructed by the 
veteran coach, George Decked. Penn 
arranged tho first inter-collegiate 
boxing matches, the contests against 
Penn State In 1919.
Dog hnlrin with wlmt would now be cnllod tlio tliilflHt ort 
of n milt, u turbino which hintn nomini rat liti; ol 'Hill lip. 
ni moi) rpni., Wi-m limhounn 
inni ilovlopcu turbino con* 
ni ruction io n point, wlwr 
Huer cylliulnr, two Ini!*?, 
tiirhliii'n me now III orvieti 
ilcvdoplnu 1(10,0(10 lip. Ami 
u numi nliiiilllciint flirt nhout 
tliln development Intimi pruetlcnllyovrry stop I thlu piokiono Inni bcuu n ateo forward.
Francis Hodgkinson
D
URING the Inst twenty-five years power 
generation practice has been revolution
ized. The steam turbine lias definitely dis
placed the reciprocating engine as the standard 
prime mover in large generating equipments. 
And Francis Ilodgkinson has had more to do 
with this achievement than any other one in
dividual.
Mr. Hodgkinson came to this country along 
with the Westinghouse Licenses under the Par
sons patents, in 1896, upon the recommendation 
of the inventor himself. Since that time prac
tically every commercial steam turbine Westing
house has built has been designed and built by 
him and his able associates.
In this quartcr-century of steam-turbine de
velopment. inventive genius has been paralleled 
throughout by practical level-headedness. There 
are few cases in engineering history where the 
record is writ as dearly and impressively as this. 
There can be nothing but. credit for the engineer 
who puts his errors underfoot and rises upon 
I hem, and most of the worlds greatest achieve
ments have been so reached. The World also
honors progress that is surefooted and far-vis
ioned, such as the development of steam turbines 
under Mr. ITodgkinsons direction.
Many inventions of tremendous value in 
steam turbine practice have been devised and 
perfected by him and his co-workers. Among 
the more important of these are the construc
tion, in 1907, of the first low-pressure turbine to 
be built in America, and in 1911, of the first 
Bleeder type of turbine; the perfection, in com
pany with II. E. Longwell, of the water-seal 
gland; a balancing machine for turbine rotors 
that is almost superhumanly sensitive; a troubleproof method of supporting turbine cylinders; 
and a very superior process for affixing turbine 
blades to rotor and cylinder.
One of the fundamental Westinghouse pol
icies is insistence upon the uttermost in engineer
ing. The observance of this policy in form and 
in spirit has provided genuine opportunities for 
many men of remarkable engineering gifts, one 
of the most notable of whom is the man whose 
name appears as the title of this article* Francis 
Ilodgkinson.
W^tiBghonse
INTER-FRATERNITY
DORMITORY BASKET BALL
LEAGUE CONSTITUTION
This organization shall be known 
as the Inter-Fraternity Dormitory 
Basket Ball League. The officers 
shall consist of the president and the 
secretary-treasurer and shall be elect
ed by the members of the league, the 
Thursday following the close of the 
basket ball season.
A majority of the votes cast shall 
be required to elect the officers.
(A)Duties of the president:
1. He shall preside over all 
meetings.
2. Pie shall call a meeting the 
first week in December to 
formulate plans for the sear 
son.
3. He shall appoint a commit
tee of three men to be 
known as the schedule com
mittee.
(B)Duties of the secretary-treas
urer:
1. Collect $10 from each team 
known
MARGARET MORRISON 
ALUMNAE NEWS
The regular monthly meeting of the 
Executive Board was held Wednesday 
evening. Those prsent were Florence 
Bechtel, Sue Smith, Edna Smith, Ma
rion Keefer, Mary Cummings Keaney, 
Margaret Griffin, Rachel Beatty and 
Bess Sheets Gaston. There being no 
new business, special attention was 
given to plans for the Christmas 
party.
Once more we appeal to you to send 
your correct address to the secretary. 
In going over the files when sending 
out notices, we realize that many of 
the addresses are incorrect. We hear 
indirectly that certain girls have mov
ed but until that information is re
ceived officially it cannot be used to 
correct the files. Our. secretary is a 
very clever young person, but she is 
not clairvoyant. She cannot conjure 
your new address out of the nowhere 
entrance fee I into the here. And second class mail
and said fee to be placed 
in trust with the graduate 
manager of Carnegie Tech.
2. Publish in The Tartan the 
results of the games played 
the previous week and the 
scheditfe of the following 
week.
3. Keep a permanent record 
of the scores.
"5. Notify each team of the an
nual meetings for the elec
tion of officers.
5. Take minutes of all meet
ings and keep these in a 
permanent file.
(C)Duties of the committee:
1. The committee shall draft 
the schedule.
(a) The members of each 
league will be drawn by lot.
2. This committee shall pass 
on the -eligibility of players.
3. Arrange a championship 
seried of three games.
Rules governing Inter-Fraternity 
Dormitory Basket Ball. General 
Rules
(1)Every team' represented in the 
Inter-Fraternity Basket Ball Leagues 
shall post ten dollars, payable to the 
secretary-treasurer as an entrance 
fee and will forfeit this fee on failure 
to play two or more scheduled games.
a) Teams playing \the scheduled 
number of games or having only one 
for forfeit listed against them shall 
receive at fill close of the season, 
their $10 entrance fee, minus such an 
amount which shall be pro-rata to 
take care of expenses inouned by the 
officers or the committee in perform
ing their duties.
(b) Teams having two or more 
non-appearances or forfeitures listed 
agnlnst them forfeit their entrance 
fee and this fee shall bev placed in 
trust to take care of running ex
penses, buying trophies, etc.
(2)The entrance fee must be t 
posted with the secretary-treasurer 
before tho Christmas vacation.
(3)Mon participating in InterFraternity Dormitory athletics must 
not bo on the Varsity or Froshtman 
squads at tho time of tho first sched
uled game.
(1)Mon must be roglstored day 
students of C. I. T.
(5)Only active and pledge mem
bers or the various organizations are 
oliglblo to play.
(G)Professional players will not 
be allowed to play in the Inter-Fra
ternity Dormitory games.
(a) A professional player is defined 
as one who plays amateur or semiprofessional or professional games for 
money.
Special Rules
(1)A game may be postponed by 
mutual agreement providing this 
agreement is handed in to the com
mittee and passed on favorably.
(a) This means that the game must 
be played within one week of the 
scheduled date.
(2)-Failure to play the game 
within the one week limit shall con
stitute a forfeiture.
(3)All disputes shall be settled 
at a 'general meeting at wihich a 
quorum is present.
(a) A quorum shall consist of rep
resentatives of two-tliirds of the or
is not forwarded, you know.* So if 
you do not get notices, publications, 
etc., the fault is most likely your 
own. See to it that you miss nothing 
further by sending your correct ad
dress at once to Edna Smith, secre
tary-treasurer, 5941 Alder street.
Last Call.
For the Christmas party. This is 
the dayThursday, December 15, at 
8 oclock sharp in the Margaret Mor
rison Gym. We planned this party 
hoping thus to bring the student body 
and the Alumnae into closer contact. 
Lets all turn out and get acquainted 
with them before they graduate and 
show them that we are a bunch of 
live wires like themselves. If they 
can be persuaded that our organiza
tion is not an old ladies sewing so
ciety they will be eager to join us.1 
Anyway you cant afford to miss this 
jolly party. There will be songs, 
dances, stunts by both graduates and 
undergraduates, and eats. We expect 
you! And dont forget to bring a 
small toy With you for the unfortun
ate children of our citys hospitals.
Girls of the Charter Class! Do 
you remember Miss Stutz, who in 
those prehistoric days labored to 
teach us English as she is spoke? 
Mrs. Breclc as she is now called, has 
returned to our city and is renewing 
acquaintances with some of her for
mer pupils.
ganizations represented in the 
leagues.
(4)All insurance men are inelig
ible to f)lay.
(5)One player cannot represent 
more than one team.
(6)Failure to appear in uniform 
ready to play within ten minutes after 
scheduled time shall constitute a 
forfeiture.
(7)Games shall be played under 
the following regulations
(a) There shall be four-seven and 
one-lialf-minute quarters, with an in
terval of one minute between the first 
and second quarters and one minute 
between me third and fourth quarters 
with an interval of ten minutes be
tween halves.
The alumni of New Hampshire 
College have given the college a 
beautiful new memorial athletic field, 
with a running track, and a stadium 
that will seat 3,500 spectators. Work 
that would have cost $40,000 was 
'done for .$26,000. One of the alumni 
had it in charge and the spirit that 
put it through was.that of pride in 
economic and thorough work.
A college in Australia has asked 
the Penn. Relays committte if a 
team could be financed to come over 
to America for the big games the 
end of April. University of Penn
sylvania replied that too big. an ex
pense would be involved.The Tech.
Students not equipped with a leath
er brief case, a good fountain pen, 
Eversharp pencil, bill fold, and at 
least one piece of Tech jewelry 
should visit the Singer Pen h Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
DIRECTORY OF TECH CLANS
/
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, care Chelsea Club, 829 East 
BALTIMORESecretary, W. H. Norman, 2110 Allendale Street 
BOSTONSecretary, Mary Wight, Harris Hall, Deaconess Road. 
BUFFALOActive Member, W. H. Rieger, Sizer Forge Company. 
CHICAGOSecretary, J. J. Kennedy, 3748 Wrightwood Avenue. 
CINCINNATIActive Member, Mary Zarobsky, '11 Bella Vista Place, 
CLEVELANDSecretary, Merten G. Kingslejr, 17817 Cannon Ave. 
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co. 
ERIESecretary, H. A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Street. 
HARRISBURGPresident, Ritchie Lawire, 206 Market Street. 
HARTFORDSecretary, L. M. Bloch, 304 Garden Avenue. 
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E. 
JOHNSTOWNSecretary, C. L. Carroll, 220 Vine Street. 
MONONGAIIELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa. ,
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 431 Riverside Drive. 
NORFOLKActing Secretary, W. H. Sands, Bank of Commerce 
Building.
PHILADELPHIAPresident, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company of Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building. 
PITTSBURGHSecretary, J. W. Batman. Carnegia Institute of 
Technology. ' \
ST. LOUISActive Member, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building. 0
WASHINGTONSecretary, W. H. Norman, Thirteenth Street, N.
W.: Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., Engineering Dept. 
YOUNGSTOWNResident F. C. Beede, South High School; M. M.
C Secret] 7 ' ~ ^Stevenson, 722 Bryson Street.
.WATCH 7 are 4,19A2X 'V'LC R''Gw e ol5tl
BELLEFIELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
"The Church of Friendly People 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service.... .11:00 A.M. 
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service....... 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
 MANHATTAN 
RESTAURANT 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE
Try Our Special Plate 
Lunch40c 
A Students Restaurant 
For the Students 
Reasonable Prices.
RENTING A SPECIALTV 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
Travel
Is relieved of its embarrass
ments when you have a let
ter of credit from us. And 
through our steamship 
agency we can arrange 
every detail for you of any 
trip, tour or cruise, afloat 
and ashore.
DO IT RIGHT!
With the Goodyear Welt System
TECH SHOE REPAIRING
FORBES (Near Craig)
ANI
PifiJi Avenue Boot Shop
near -10th Street, New York.
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
HflNDYMEMj
Pads Renewable
Covers Everlasting
5 Sizes 25c and up
Tell it to Buddy 
He never forgets
After Every Meal1WRIGLEYS
CENTS
B130The Flavor I1 lasts!
