TOOT! TOOT!
HOMER SMITH SAILS 
11 A. M. JUNE 12
ARE YOU PREPARED TO 
COMPETE WITH
EXAMS?
VOL. XVII. NO. 35CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 1923
DR. SHAW WILL 
BE COMMENCE-^ 
MENT SPEAKER
CARNEGIE TARTAN STAFF 
MEMBERS ARE REQUESTED
TO TURN IN THEIR KEYSGym Whose Cornerstone Will Be Laid Next Week
Editor and Founder of Re
view of Reviews Has Been 
Secured to Deliver Address 
on Final Day
All members of tlie Carnegie Tar
tan staff wlio have keys to the office 
are requested to turn them in before 
leaving school. Mark S. Downes, As
sociate Editor, will be in the Carnegie 
Commons every noon, from 12:00 to 
12:30 to receive them.
These are taken in in order to in
sure their safe keeping during the 
summer, and will be re-distributed 
next fall, when the staff meets for 
the first time.
BIG ECONOMIST
Carnegie Tech is extremely foi-tunate that Dr. Baker was successful 
in securing his first choice for Com
mencement Day in the person of Dr. 
Albert Shaw, editor and founder of 
the American Review of Reviews. On 
Friday morning, June 15, the students 
and their friends at the annual grad
uation exercises will hear one of the
DR. ALBERT SHAW
most distinguished Americans of the 
daya man who has not only won 
a lofty place in literature, but is 
equally conspicuous in the civic af
fairs of the nation.
Dr. Shaiw was borni at Shandon, in 
Butler county*, Ohio, in 1857, and was 
graduate in 1879 from Grinnell Col
lege, in Iowa. In 1884 he was award
ed his degree of Ph. D. at Johns 
Hopkins University, and after two 
years of study in Europe was hon
ored by the University of Wisconsin, 
University of Missouri, Marietta Col
lege, University of Cincinnati, and 
Western Resexwe, each of which con
ferred upon him the degree of LL. D.
From 1883 to 1888, he was editor of 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Changes Considered 
In Plebe Regulations
Science and Industries Plebes 
in Charge of Dir. Day
In working out plans for caring for 
the Plebe Class of next year the se
rious problems of attendance at as 
semblies and of carrying out the 
Plebe Regulations have been pre
sented.
The Industries and Science Colleges 
will no longer have separate Plebe 
classes; all the Freshmen desiring to 
enter either of these schools will be 
enrolled in one class under Director 
Day of the Division of General Stud
ies.
Director Day will meet representa
tives from the Student Council this 
week to work out some of the prob
lems that have been presented. At 
present the problem of caring for the 
Plebes at assemblies has been most 
bothersome. Several plans are being 
considered, that of having a separate 
Plebe assembly, of assigning certain 
sections to each of the two schools, 
or of permitting the Plebes to choose 
the assembly they wish to go to.
Some changes in the enforcing of 
the Plebe Regulations are also being 
considered.
Several Unsold Thistles 
May Be Bought at Office
A few unsold Thistles still remain 
at the Thistle Office and can be had 
by anyone desiring to purchase them. 
Those, also, who have paid for their 
books in full, although not in danger
of losing them, should try to call at
the office as soon as possible.
The Thistle Office, located at Room 
14, Industries, near the foundry, will 
be open daily until the close of
school, between 12:30 and 1:30, for 
the sale of books.
A number of campus organizations 
have not yet paid for their pictures 
and write-ups in the Thistle. The 
Thistle Board is in urget need of 
this money in order to remove out
standing debts before the CI0S9 of
school.
The delay in paying up is probably 
due to negligence rather than a de
sire to beat the Thistle, so, as a 
reminder, the names of the delinquet 
organizations are published hei-e: 
Industries Seniors,
Industries Juniors,
Non-Degree Asociation,
(Continued on Page Three)
SENIOR BALL TEAM 
DONS FEMALE GARB
M. M. PLEBES ENTERTAIN 
JUNIORS AND SENIORS
WITH LUNCHEON FRIDAY
The Junior and Senior classes of 
Margaret Morrison were entertained 
by the Freshmen, at luncheon in the 
Reception Hall lust Friday. About 
one hundred upper classmen accepted 
the invitation which was extended to 
them. Fruit salad, sandwiches, punch 
and small cakes were servedA great time was enjoyed by all. 
The Seniors and Juniors declared 
the Freshmen to be good entertain
ers.
CORNERSTONE 
OF NEW GYM TO 
BE LAID WED.
SENIORBANQUET
Odds Turning Against Men. IS BETTER THAN
Griffin, Stage Hound is
Hope of Team EVER THIS YEAR
FIRST ISSUE OF CARNEGIE 
TARTAN FOR 1923-24 WILL 
BE OUT W;ID., SEPT. 19, 1923
With the arrival of the June 
checks from home, betting on the 
baseball game between the' Senior) 
men and the Senior women has be
come heavier and heavier, and from 
indications, this contest bids fair to 
eclipse even the Commencement ex
ercises as the main event of Senior 
Week. The game will be held on the 
morning of Monday, June 11, at Tech 
Field, and will be a fight to the 
finish.
The betting was originally in favor 
Of the men, and their confidence was 
so exalted thereby that they agreed 
to play left-handed. As a precaution, 
however, scouts were sent to the 
training camp of the opponents and 
finally coaxed back to report that \ 
they saw, among other things, that 
the competition was stronger than 
anticipated and that the men would 
need to use both hands if they ex
pected to win.
This, together with the fact that 
the game was to be played in the 
opponents back yard, and that the 
mens resources had been depleted by 
Campus Week, has caused the bet(Continued on Page Three.)
Unusual Program to Be Pre
sented at Dinner in Lincoln 
Club Following Gym CereThe first issue Of the Carnegie Tar! tan for the school year of 1923-24 will 
appear on the campus on Wednesday, 
[September 19, '923. All reporters
will receive, during the summer, as
signments which they will be expect
ed to cover. All copy must be in the 
j Tartan office by Sunday, September 
16, and all editorial assistants are re
quested to be at the office by 2:30 p. 
m. September 16.
TO OPEN EIGHT 
WEEK SUMMER 
COURSE JUNE 25
SOPHOMORE GIRLS 
TO HAVE HONORARY
Proposed Organization For 
Girls Corresponds to 
Druids
DATE IS JUNE 13
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
ELECT CLUB OFFICERS
The Carnegie Chemists Club at its 
final meeting of the year elected of
ficers for 1923-1924. F. H. Trembly, 
24, was elected president of the or
ganization; C. F. Mason, '24, was 
chosen vice president; lJ. N. Welsh, 
25, treasurer, andi R. R. Sitzler, 25, 
secretary.
The retiring officers headed by D. 
M. Gray, '23, president, are to be con
gratulated on the work that they 
have done during the past year In 
rejuvenating the Carnegie Chemists 
Club from merely a name to one of 
the livest departmental organizations 
on the campus. The formal initia
tion of new members, which was be
gun this year, has proved to be inter
esting and beneficial, both to the or
ganization and to the initiatee.
The graduating Seniors of the 
Chemists Club donated to their or
ganization a large copper retort 
which will be used at all initiation 
ceremonies, arid] which will be hand
ed down, year to year, from presi
dent to president. The retort will 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Y. W. C. A. Offers Scholar
ship to Welfare Students
Beginning with the next college 
year, a scholarship valued at $100 will 
be awarded annually by the Carnegie 
Tech branch of the Y. W. C. A. to a 
student in the Department of Social 
Work, in Margaret Morrison. Funds 
to. permit -the giving of the scholar
ship annually will be raised by the 
members of the association.
The award will be made on the 
basis of meritorious scholastic work, 
with the restriction that the scholar
ship be given only to a candidate who 
intends to make welfare work her vo
cation after graduation.
COLLEGIATE IMPS PLAY AT
CHATAUQUA THIS SUMMER
Six members of the Collegiate Imps 
will leave June 20 for Chatauqua 
Lake, New York, to play a summer 
engagement at the Paint Inn. Steve 
Kovalk, Wilbur Cunningham, Wilbur 
Corswirt, Rodney Yan Atta, Cecil 
Bowles, and Theodore Mattson, will 
comprise the group.
The boys will welcome any of their 
Carnegie friends who happen to be in 
that vicinity.
Following Coach A. A. Staggs 
speech on "Appreciating the Ap
proach of Reality, next Wednesday, 
June 13, the men of the Senior class 
will gather at the Lincoln Club to 
banquet in true Senior style.
Every year the four classes of Car
negie Tech each hold a banquet. The 
Plebes generally hold their little gath
ering first. Not being as yet very 
well acquainted with each other, the 
Plebes' chief pleasure lies in outwit
ting the Sophs.
The Sophomore banquet is man
aged in a better manner and they 
usually succeed in evading the inquis
itive Plebes.
The Junior banquet suffers no 
drawback from encounters with other 
classes. The Juniors are all friends 
and are there for a grand and glori
ous time.
The Senior banquet is one of the 
last events of the school year and the 
Seniors aim to outdo the other 
classes. They realize that they are 
meeting for the last time as students. 
The members of the committee are 
instructed to make this affair as fine 
as possible. Having had three years' 
experience in holding banquets, an 
enjoyable program will be provided. 
The mens Senior banquet is a big af
fair and from the looks of the com
mittee, this years banquet will be as 
good as any which has been held.
The members of the committee 
aro: C. W. Jeffers, chairman; C. F.
Bowers, Sam Duncan, Red Morris. 
Red Morris has charge of the enter
tainment. The committee has decid
ed to hold the banquet near the cam
pus this year.
The banquet will bo held at the 
Lincoln Club. Tho assessment is 
$2.25 per person. All Seniors are ex
pected to be present.
CARNEGIE BANDSMEN 
SELECT NEW LEADERS
The Carnegie Kiltie band held their 
annual banqrtet at the Bird Cage Inn, 
last Thursday evening. The banquet 
was well attended and a decided suc
cess. Professor Kirkpatrick was 
there and gave one of his delightful 
talks.
The banquet was also the occasion 
for the election of officers for next 
year. The present band has been one 
of the best that Carnegie Tech has 
ever had and the acquisition of the 
kilts this year has been the realiza
tion of. the dream of the band for 
many years. We are all proud of our 
band for it is truly distinctive of Car
negie Tech.
The following officers for next year 
were elected:
Manager ................................S. W. Ruddy
Sec. and Treas.............D. M. Patterson
Business Manager............D. S. Garber
Librarian ......................G. H. Eisenhart
Miss Brown to Give
Party to Senior Girls
ALL STUDENTS INVITED TO
BACCALAUREATE SERVICE
The entire students body and the 
general public are invited to hear the 
baccalaureate sermon, which will be 
given in Carnegie Music Hall, Sunday 
night, June 10. The speaker is Dr. 
Shaler Mathews, dean of tho Divinity, 
School, Chicago University. He is 
connected with various religious in
stitutions, a writer o"f many import
ant sociological and religious books 
and the editor of numerous widely 
read publications. We are given, the 
opportunity of hearing one of the 
foremost orators of the day and 
should not miss it. It is to be under
stood that the service is not strictly 
for Seniorsall students are cordial
ly invited to attend.
One of the features of Senior 
Week will be the garden party that 
MiS3 Brown is giving the Senior girls. 
This affair is looked forward to with 
a great deal of enthusiasm. It is to 
be held on the lawn at Mellon Hall. 
Each Senior girl is to bring a Senior 
man or her fiance, if she has one. The 
date is June 11th, Monday of Senior 
Week. The girls are expecting to 
have a good time, and at present are 
casting their eyes about to find a 
good-time partner.
REFUNDS ARE SCHEDULED 
TO BE MADE IN CASH
IERS OFFICE NEXT WEEK
During the week of June 11 all 
Senior General Ereakage Deposits, 
losker key refunds, chemistry labora
tory and weight deposits, will be re
funded. All students having the 
above refunds due them, are request
ed to report to Mr. ITeyls office, in 
Central Building, during tho early 
part of the* week, as Mr. Ileyl wish
es to close the account as early as 
possible.
Seniors to Journey 
To Sewickley Beach
Good Ship Homer Smith Will 
Carry Picnickers
Arrangements fo? the Homer Smith 
boat ride are almost completed at 
present. The prick, to cover the cxpendltm-es of the t?-ip and picnic, has 
been set at fifty cents per person. 
Each Senior will be allowed two ad
missions to the trip with the presen
tation of a Senior Week Tag. Tho 
tickets have been put into the hands 
of representatives C the different sec
tions throughout the Senior class and 
each member of tho class can secure 
his or her tickets from tho representa
tive.
The boat will ljiave tho dock on 
Wood and Wator street promptly at 
11 a. m. on Tuesday, June 12. Danc
ing will be in voguo on tho boat un
til wo reach Sewickley beach where 
we will disembark. Tho trip down 
covers about two and one-luilf hours. 
At the beach a general good time will 
be had, those wisljing to bathe can 
do so while tho 'vhors who do not 
so desire may find othor onjoymont 
along a very pleasant boach. Tho 
committee has arrangod to furnish 
lemonade to all, nothing stronger Is 
permissible.
The boat leaves tho boach promptly 
at 4 p. m. and arrives in Pittsburgh 
at 7 p. m. On tho return trip danc
ing will again be nn attraction. Tho 
boat maintains control ovor all of tho 
concessions- and thoso wishing re
freshments can obtain thom. Girls, 
dont forgot that lunch.
SORORITY QUESTION 
POSTPONED TILL FALL
Tho sorority question at Margarot 
Morrison Is still undecided, and has 
been passed ovor until next year. Fol
lowing a suggestion of Mrs. Brown, a 
general vote was takon. Each girl 
having hor name checlcod as sho 
voted. In this way, tho true opinion 
of each girl was obtainable. Unfortu
nately the janitor found tho votos in 
the voting jardinler, and burnod 
them. The girls decided, after this 
disaster, that they had better put off 
the voting process until the next year. 
According to present indications, It 
will be even more of an argument 
next year than it was this year.
Get Your Application in 
For Summer Employment
Have you filled out your application 
for summer employment yet? Better 
do it now before you get mixed up 
in the whirlpool of your examination.
Because of the recent change in 
business conditions, there is no de
mand for certain classes of workers, 
but in other fields the demand is 
many times greater than the supply.
The types of work on hand include: 
Structural iron shop, machine shop, 
foundry, forge shop, tracing, civil aud 
mechanical drafting, electrical con
struction, wiring and winding, exter
ior and interior painting, railroad 
maintenance of -way, labor, selling on 
salary or drawing account and com
mission; various departments of steel 
millblast furnace, rolling mill, forge 
shop, heat-treating department, and 
clerical work.
Miss Bowman Honored at 
M. M. Junior Dinner Party
Last Monday evening, June 4, a din
ner party was given by the Junior 
class of Margarot Morrison in honor 
of their class advisor, Miss Emilio 
Ray Bowman. Miss Bowman is in
structor in tho Physical Educational 
Department of Margarot Morrison and 
has been elected to honorary mem
bership of the Junior class. Tho din
ner, which was a very enjoyable af
fair, was held at the Hotel Schenley.
The committee in charge of the din
ner was Elizabeth Lewis, chairman; 
Faye Glass, Marjorie Cook, Victoria 
Weedy, Grace Sheriff and Anne Bren
nan.
Science and Industries Hold 
Eight Week SessionsArts 
and M. M. to Give Six 
Weeks Courses
FEES ARE ANNOUNCED
Eight week summer courses in the 
Colleges of Engineering and Indus
tries start on June 25 and end August 
17. Courses for teachers of manual 
and industrial arts,' giveu in the Col
lege of Industries, are scheduled for 
six weeks, from July 2 to August 10. 
In tho College of Fino Arts and tho 
Margaret Morrison College, all 
courses begin July 2 and end August 
10.
The fees are as follows: For a
class schedule (oxcept in homo eco
nomics, surveying, or coal mining) of 
nine units or less, twenty-fivo dollars; 
for moro than nine, but not moro than 
eighteen units, thlrty-ilve dollars; for 
more than olgliteen units, forty-five 
dollars. Tho feo for all courses in 
architecture, regardless of tho amount 
of credit carried, is forty-five dollars.
In tho department of music, a sopnrate foe of thirty-five dollars is 
charged for individual lossons In 
voico, piano, organ, violin, and cello; 
twenty-live dollars for Individual les
sons in tho wood wind, brass, and per
cussion instruments of tho symphony 
orchestra.
Aside lrom laboratory fees, no tui
tion will bo charged for tho coursos 
in homo economics.
For students who havo boon in at
tendance at tho Institute during tho 
collogo year, tuition foos for Hold 
work in surveying aro $6.00, $9.00 and 
$15.00 respectively for coursos of two, 
throo, and six woolcs.
In tho Collogo of Engineering tho 
following subjoots aro to bo given: 
Mathematics (Froshinan), Calculus; 
Physics; Chemistry; Elementary Eco
nomics and Economic Problems; Eng
lish; Principals of Accounting; Com
mercial Law; Mochanlcs and Survey
ing.
In tho Collogo of Industries, similar, 
(Continuod oni Page Three.)
ALL STUDENTS MAY
GO TO SENIOR BALI
Tho Commencement Ball will bo 
hold Friday night, Juno 15, in tho Arts 
Foyer. Dancing will continuo from 
nine until ono oclock. As this Is tho 
last evening the Seniors will have in 
which to receive their duo congratula
tions-they should all plan to be there. 
It is for thom, primarily, that this 
dance is held each year, although 
everyone is eligible to attend.
Tho Collegiate Six orchestra will 
furnish the music fdr this dance. It 
is unnecessary to say a great deal in 
praise about this orchestra for every
one who has heard them play knows 
that no better music could bo ob
tained.
This will be the last dance of the 
school year and coming as it does on 
the last evening when everyone has 
finished their exams it is a good 
chance to go out and have a real good 
time after a week of mental strain. 
Of course it is possible to go home 
right after exams are finished but it 
is well worth anyone's while to stay 
a day longer just to have the good 
time which is assured at this dance.
Tickets may be obtained from 
Doc Taylor and George Allison, 
Arts; Onie Jones, Industries; Sam 
Bittner and J. D. Whitman, Science. 
The assessment will be one dollar and 
a half.
BANQUET OF JOURNAL 
STAFF NEXT SATURDAY
Carnegie Technical Journal will 
hold Its annual banquet In tho Bird 
Cage Tea Room, East Liberty, at six 
oclock, next Saturday.
Tho speakers have not yet been an
nounced but it Is promised that they 
will bo good and will not confine 
themselves to giving advice.
All recognized staff members aro 
Invited and should consider this no
tice as a formal Invitation.
Tho policy of next years staff will 
bo outlined at the banquet and this 
will be the last function of this year's 
Journal.
Mrs. EskimoWhere have you been 
Cor the last six months?
Mr. EskimoI sat up all night with 
a sick friend.Cento.
Something new in the line of hon
orary societies for Carnegie lias been 
brought up within the past few weeks, 
and under the sponsorship of Mortar 
Board, the girls Senior Honorary will 
probably be initiated next year.
Many of the girls in Arts and Mar
garet Morrison havo felt that there 
should be some honorary compared 
to the Druids of tho mens schools 
which would honor tho Plebe girls 
Avho have won distinction in their 
first year. Several'of the girls carried 
their ideas to the Mortar Board mem
bers who took up tho suggestions by 
appointing a committee to work out 
details. The committee secured tho 
approval of Miss Brown, Doan of 
Women, and is now considering the 
method of chosing tho charter mem
bers.
If such nn honorary as contem
plated should bo formed It will un
doubtedly be of groat benefit to tho 
school. Vory few of the girls in tho 
girls'1 schools outer activities until 
their Junior year, but with such an 
organization working among tho 
Sophomores, groat stimulus should bo 
given to tho girls of tho lowor olassos 
to go out for tho various activities.
CARNEGIE MAN SPEAKS 
AT C. M. E. S. BANQUET
Tho annual C. M. id. s. banquet 
was hold1 at tho Hotol Chatham last 
Thursday ovonlng.
Mr. J. C. Hobbs, Class, of 1912, and 
now with the Duquosno Light Com
pany, was tho prlelpal apoakor of tho 
evening. The themo of his talk was 
Tho Engineer In Public Life. Ills 
balk was vory well glvon and in
structing. In 11 courso he made 
known that the Duquosno Light Com
pany was Installing tho largest holler 
In tho world. This holler will bo 
used to lioat tho downtown district 
an<| has a capacity of twelve thousand 
bolloi* df. P. all In 011,0 ult.
"Bill'' Pfoutfi was also prosont with 
his ready wit.. Tho other speaker of 
tho evening was Professor A. H, 
Hlssodalo. Q. Colburn acteilJ as toastmastor.
The 'banquet was tho occasion for 
tho oloctlou of officers for next year. 
Tho following men wore elected:
President ...............................John Caufflol
Vico President.........M. C. Sorlmgoour
Treasurer .........................G. Bruggomlor
Socrotary .................................ID. E. Smith
National Tube Co. Will 
Erect Lab. Near Campus
Tho National Tube Company re
cently purchased the lot adjacent to 
Forbes (Hall with a view of con
structing a two-story laboratory there
on.
Tho plans have not yet boon finish
ed and the construction will bo held 
up pending an application from tho 
United States Steel Corporation of 
which the National Tube Company is 
a subsidiary.
Tho land was formerly occupied 
by the Delta Delta Delta Sorority of 
Pitt and is bounded by Forbes Hall, 
the ravine, and the old Theta Xi 
House, being of such size as to per
mit a fair sized building to be erected 
there
(Continued on Page Three.)
Coach Stagg of Chicago Will 
Give Principal Address at 
Ceremonies Next Wednes
dayKilties to Play
STEFFEN TO BE HERE
One of the most important features 
of Commencement Week will be tho 
laying of the cornerstone of the new 
gymnasium, on Wednesday afternoon, 
June 13, at 4:30 oclock. An impres
sive program including an address by 
A. A. Stagg, the distinguished phys
ical director of the University of Chi
cago, has been tentatively outlined.
This is the first occasion of the kind 
on the campus since the cornerstone 
laying of the College of Fine Arts 
eleven years ago. President Baker is 
planning to make this a notable event 
and is arranging a program that will 
be of special interest to the students. 
A student committee consisting of 
C. F. Bowers, T. N. Griggs, and I-I. J. 
McCormick is co-operntiug with Dr. 
Baker, indicating that the students 
will have a largo share in the pro
gram ceremony.
Music will bo provided by tho Kiltlo Band and mass singing by the stu
dents, and contributions to tho metal 
box from representatives of tho stu
dents bodies and other related organi
zations will be features of tho exer
cises.
The occasion will also bo of par
ticular significance to tho alumni 
through tho fact that the contract for 
the erection of tho building has boon 
awarded to S. M. Slosel, a Carnegie 
Toch graduate in tho class of 1.90S. In
vitations havo boon sout to 1500 alum
ni and former students in the Pitts
burgh district. Tho alumni roglstor 
and tho athletic rostor will be placod 
In tho metal box by two roprosontallvos of tho alumni association.
Wally iStoffon, who rocolved his 
football trifclnlng under Coach Stagg, 
will bo among tho prominent gueHts 
on tho platform. Othor guests will 
Include tho trustees of tho Institute, 
and well-known coachos and athletic 
directors of secondary schools. Many 
of tho local alumni of tho University 
of Chicago aro planning to bo on hand 
to hoar Coach Stagg.
Tho tontatlvo program Is as fol
lows:
Muslo ....................................Carnegie Band
Mass Singing ....................Student Body
Invocation.Rov. Hugh Thompson Kerr
Shadyuldo Piosbytorlnn Church
Address .........Samuel Harden Church
President., Carnoglo Instltuto
, (Continuod on Pago Throe.)
Puppet Will Appear 
On Registration Day
Carnegie Fun Book Out to 
Seize judge" Trophy
Tho things that Puppet proposes to 
do next year show that tho paper Is 
progressing and holds much promlso 
for tho Luturci of tho fun book at 
Carnoglo.
To bogltu with, thoro will bo* nine 
Issues, ono each month. The first 
will appear on Registration Day and 
the last at Campus Week time. The 
same plan of tickets for yearly sub
scribers will be followed, and the 
tickets will bo sold on Registration 
Day.
The first issue will be worked up 
drirlngi the summer months and for 
this reatson, the Puppet staff requests 
all contributors to get the material 
for this number in the postoffice as 
soon as possible, so that there will 
bo no delay.
Puppet proposes to win the next 
year's College Wit Contest. The con
tinuous good showing that Puppet has 
displayed in past contests has made 
the Puppet staff determined to bring 
the prized cup to Carnegie. A dif(Contlnued on Page Four)
Tartan Adopts Righteous Platform 
To Initiate Examination Reform
The staff of the Carnegie Tartan for i 
next year is going to poke out with 
something entirely new. Its going to 
havo a platform. In other words, tho 
Tartan Is going to fight,for certain i 
objectives next year Instead of mere
ly running a colorlosB line of dope 
about dances, otc.
Tho platform Is headed (may wo 
say) by tho plank:: No exams, no
quizzes, and no flunks. Tho perfect 
simplicity and advantages of this 
idea 1 too apparent to need Interpre
tation.
Never moro shall tho poor Plebes 
havo to worry about thoJr weekly 
quizzes. Never moro will tho world 
weary Sophs have to spend tho week 
before exams In cramming'cauao 
there won't bo any moro exams.
Never moro will our students, dis
heartened by weekly quizzes and final 
exams, and heart broken by unde
served flunks, sadly wornl their way 
to tho big school on the hillside. We 
promise a fair chance of graduating, 
each student, who has four years tui
tion, providing he doesnt slander our
deans or spend too much time with 
the Maggie Murphs.
The main reason for this novel idea 
is the fact that the well known Uni
versity of Pittsburgh has abolished 
final exams. They are permissibly 
but no longer compulsory. They may 
bo given or not at tho discretion o 
tho Prof. Two Profs, who signified 
their Intention of giving final exama 1 
mysteriously disappeared.
In order that wo may achieve tho 
realization, of tills Ideal, It is neces
sary that tho students of Carnoglo 
Toch uphold tho Tartan In this cam
paign. It Is suggostod that tho 
Coup method bo omployed.
All during tho summer lot every 
student co-oporato. Whon you get 
your string with twonty knots, just 
forgot that dope about Every day in 
every way, etc.
Instead, with your heart in your 
work, repeat, with intense feeling, 
No oxams, no quizzes, no flunkB, 
and who knows? With the help of 
the Lord and the faculty we may 
reach our goal in a couple of cen
turies.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 1923
. Published every %veelc by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision o the Student Council.
Entered In the PoBtofllce of PlttHburgh a  second-class matter.
H. F. SIMPSON............................................................................................ Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Schenley 9143
W. CUNNINGHAM .......................................................................... BuflinOBS Manager
!Telephone Schenley 9211ENNETII ARNOLD ............................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley 9189
___ED C. SMITH.......................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS...................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT .......................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9079
3VTARIC S. DOWNES ................................................................................. Associate Editor
H. H. WILSON .......................................................................................... ABBociate Editor
ELABORATE PLANS 
MADE FOR SENIORS
Baseball Game in Forbes 
Field to Introduce Sen
ior Week
Telephone Schonley 0070
Telephone Schenley 9070
3D. C. FRAZIER____
R. W. SLEATH .... 
W. K. JEFFREY ...
Telephone Schenley 0211 
Tolophono Schenley 9143
.. Athletic Editor 
Exchange Editor
DON GARDNER ....
T. J. 33EMPSEY____
33. BROUDY ................
II. GIBSON ..................
........................................................................ Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Estelle Garibaldi, pizabeth Gordon, L. D. Richards, .T. A. Dougherty, 13. 
DMare, E. G. Elgle, A. 33. ICrogh, J. H. laacB, R. G. Kennedy, L. XL Harris, 
H. F. Reiter, J. W. Jones, K. Fulmer, M. D. Kalfelz.
 ' A'i'l ILIST JC CO NT1UBUTORS
.T. H. FergUHon, G. E. .Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rosabaclc.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. 33. Laudlg, D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, P. W. Reilly, W. A. Jacko, P. 
Edle, R. h. Sandroclc, II. Urcliel.
The Edltor-ln-Chlef 1b responsible lor the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed.
 Signature will bo withhold if desired- All news items must be in tho student 
poBtofllce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OlllcoRoom G-A, Industries Building. Office hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
TAKING HOLD
With this issue oi! the Carnegie Tartan the old staff ceases to 
function. They retire with full satisfaction oi: a work well done. 
Their achievement will long serve as a model for future staffs to work 
upon. Through the good organizing ability of the former Editor and 
Managing Editor, a staff of the highest ability and interest is turned 
over to the new Editor. With this as a nucleus to work with, a 
better paper in all respects should result, which is of course, admit
ting that the room for improvement is not very great.
The policy of the new staff is to give all of the news fit to 
print, and that correctly. As the official student publication of Car
negie Tech, news in the Carnegie Tartan should be correctall mis
takes made by Pittsburgh papers should bo corrected. It is only 
to be expected that the school pawcr should have the iinal word, from 
inside knowledge, on the correct dope.
It will be our policy also to give praise where it is due; to crit
icize, but only constructively; and to boost Carnegie Tech in every 
way possible. Razz has its place, but such can be carried too far 
If used with discretion, tis good, if not, harmful.
Recognizing the ability of the staff to gather in the news, it1 
cannot necossarily be done to perfection without co-operation betweon all. The Carnegie Tartan will meet all more than half way.
Our motto is: SERVICE TO CARNEGIE TECH!
PLAY THE GAME FAIR1
It is expected that all Senior men 
and women will arrange to attend all 
of tho events craftuled ror Com
mencement Week. The program for 
all of the events is printed In an
other column of, the Carnegie Tartan 
TO that each Senior will have a copy 
and will be able to make arrange
ments to be present at the time speci
fied for the different events.
The committee is trying to arrange 
to have a special section reBerved at 
Forbes Fiell for the game on Mon
day afternoon between the New York 
Giants and the Pirates. If arrange
ments are completed the tickets will 
bo sold tho latter part of this week, 
but if a special section is not Secured 
all of the Seniors will meot after the 
class meeting on Monday and march 
down to the field in a body.
Tuesday the Senior voyage and pic
nic will occupy tho entire day. It is 
not necessary to say another word 
about this event because any Senior 
that stay-3 away on this day will cer
tainly miss one of the biggest times 
of the year.
On Wednesday morning at 10 a. m. 
the men -will meet at the Pittsburgh 
Athletic Association for the Senior 
swim and at 4 p. m. will attend the 
laying of the cornerstone of the gym
nasium. The Men's banquet will be 
lield at 7 p. m. at the Lincoln Club 
on Craft avenue and the only advice 
that can be given to the Senior men 
Is to be there or live to regret it.
Thursday is a day of rest but in 
the evening the Drama Students will 
present The Shoemakers Holiday in 
tho Open Air Theater of the College 
of Fine Arts. This performance lias 
been scheduled so that all Seniors can 
bring their parents and friends to the 
performance and show them the abil
ity of the students in the Drama 
School. If it should happen to rain 
the performance will be shown in the 
Arts Theater.
Alumni Appreciate 
Campus Week Events
Alumni President Writes 
Letter to Committee
In one respect the Army and Navy man is quite similar to the 
 college man. They both say: Anything I can get away with is all 
right. Though the Army and Navy regulations say it is a penal 
experience to bo A. W. O. L., or to come in A. O. L., still if they can 
get away with it, 'tis O. K., according to their way of looking at it.
Now that examinations are at hand, this similarity will manifest 
itsolf. It is inevitable according to the student way of thinking, 
What Vi lie going to do'/ Sit peacefully down, and flunk? Some will. 
Some will not.
Our student body consists of many types. Tho predominating 
roup is characterized, by his ability to lot things slide, and when tho 
propet* time comes a-Jtnocking at the door, to settle down to a sturdy 
series of concentrated crui.uinit.ig periods. This typo will puss his 
course because lie has the ability to buckle down to the grind tit tho 
crucial moment, lie shows no whito-featlior, or yollow-streak, but 
Unit good old light to the bitter end that knows no such, word as 
failure.
One other type is ol! such a nature that he also lots things slide, 
but when Iho crucial moment arrives, instead oJ! doing as the above 
type doessettle down and dig-it-out himsoll!gathers in all the per
formed work of others, and assidionsly copies.
Still another typo does just as the othor twolets things slide 
except,,at the crisis, instead of having the guts to dig-in and dig-ifcout, throws up the sponge. Ho shows no light, lie has a ycliowstroak somewhere.
There is still another type who realizes that he does not know 
the work. He realizes that he has merely been exposed to; something, 
and that it has not taken. It seems to the writer that there is an old 
quotation which goes something like this: He is a wise man, who 
knows nothing, and knows that ho knows nothing. This type may 
be further sub-divided into two classes: either he will pass by hook 
or crook, or accept the wise course, take an R and repeat, because 
he realizes that he is not in college to make a few high grades, but 
to learn. To this type, such a thing as a few low grades causes no 
worry, but rather on the contrary, spurs him on to try again, with the 
hope of getting more out of the course. After all, it does not hurt to 
repeat. Many a lesson has been learned through experience. If at 
first you fail, try, try again; but, never, if at first you fail, try and 
make it good l>3r crookedness.
Perhaps you readers have not recognized it, but this is an article 
against cribbing. It is a tribute to the man who works hard through
out the year, and passes. It is a tribute to the man who has the good 
old fight that knows no defeat. It is a tribute to the man who has 
t^he ability to settle down to that last and final hard fight, commonly 
known as cramming. It is a tribute to that man who knows he does 
not know, and though he realizes he can pass through dishonesty, 
still remains honest. It is a tribute to the man who plays the game 
fair, and wins all he wins through the honest sweat of his brow. It 
is a knock against tho man who believes in the motto of anything I 
can get away with is all right. This last type puts on a false front. 
He is hiding his true face behind onty a mask of ability. He is not 
playing tho gamo fair. Perhaps the faculty is somewhat to blame. 
Their ability to correctly diagnose the student is somewhat lacking. 
They aro prono to judgo too much through grades turned in rather 
than through tho man that is within.
Follows, exams aro lioro! Which type aro you proving yourself 
to bo?
LETS ALL PLAY THE C1AME FAIR!
REMEMBER WHAT ABRAHAM LINCOLN ONCE SATO!
A letter of appreciation was re
ceived by Chairman A. R. Zelt o the 
Campus Week Committee from S. G. 
Little, president of the Alumni Fed
eration. The letter, which indicates 
the alumni attitude toward the new 
traditions established by our Campus 
Week celebration, holds forth tho 
promise that the Alumni will aid the 
student body in permanently estab
lishing Campus Week on our calendar. 
The letter follows:
To tho Campus Week Committee;
Student Council and Studonts, 
Carnoglo Institute of Technology, 
Schenley Park,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
It, Is only fitting that wo, tho Alum
ni, should exproas our appreciation of 
tho glorious time wo had at tho 
Fourth Annual Cnmpus Week Cele
bration. It was worth coming many 
mllos to attend.
From the oponlng strainu o tho 
orohostras at tho liitorfraternity 
dances to tho curtain culls at "Rab
bit's Feet" tho ontortalnment was a 
huge success and has eclipsed In 
splendor any similar ovont ovor hold 
at Carnoglo Toch.
It, Is to you that wo owo our thanks 
and appreciation for this ontortainmout.
Your hard work and plans for tho 
different events have written a now 
epoch in Carnoglo Tech traditions and 
Is going to help make a better Car
negie spirit and increase our love for 
our Alma Mater in both our alumni 
and student body; which is to be 
greatly desired.
Yours for a greater Carnegie Tech.
Sincerely,
S. G. LITTLE, 
President, Alumni Federation.
Commencement Week Program
SUNDAY, JUNE 10, 1923
8:00 P.M.Baccalaureate Sermon, Carnegie Music Hall.
MONDAY, JUNE 11, 1923
11:00 A.M.Baseball Game, Senior Women vs. Senior Men, Tech 
Field.
1:00 P.M.Class Meeting, Union.
3:30 P.M.Baseball Game, Forbes Field, Pittsburgh vs. New 
York.
8:00 P.M.Reception and Garden Party by Dean Brown for Se
nior Women, Mellon Hall.
TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 1923
10:30 A.M-Senior Voyage and Picnic, Homer S/mith. Boat leaves 
from Wood and Water streets.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13, 1923
10:00 A.M.Men's Swimming Party, Pittsburgh Athletic Associa
tion.
1:00 P.M.Womens Luncheon, Schenley Hotel.
4:30 P.M.Laying of Cornerstone of Gymnasium.
7:00 P.M.Mens Senior Banquet, Lincoln Club, Craft avenue.
8:00 P.M.Womens Theater Party, Davis Theater.
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 1923
10:00 A.M.Womens Swimming Party, Rodef Shalom Pool, Fifth 
avenue and Morewood street.
8:00 P.M.The Shoemaker's Holiday, presented by Drama 
Students, Design School Open Air Theater.
FRIDAY, JUNE 15, 1923
10:00 A.M.Commencement Exercises, Carnegie Music Hail. 
12:30 P.M.Reception by President, Trustees, Directors and 
Deans, Foyer, Carnegie Music Hall.
9:00 P.M.Commencement Ball for Seniors and Juniors of the 
Four Schools, Foyer, College of Fine Arts.
ROAMINS
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6 
Student Niglit for Tlio Two Mrs. Loriiig....8:1G P. M., Arts Theator 
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, JJJNE 7, 8 AND 9
PlayKabbits Feet..................,.................S:15 P. M., Arts Theater
SUNDAY, .TUNE 10 
Baccalaureate Sermon, Dr. Similes Mnthcws....8:00 P. M., Music Hall 
MONDAY, JUNE 11
Bccital by Music Department.-............................S :15 P. M., Arts Theater
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13
Laying of Cornerstone of New Gymnasium.....4:30 P. M Tech Street
Eeeital by Department of Music........... .......8:15 P. M., Arts Theater
FRIDAY, JUNE 15
Commencement Exercises...*..-.........................10:30 A. M., Music Hall
Commencement Ball .................................................... Arts Porer tj
|| o?
Ino'
PLEASE!
Will the individual who removed 
my math books from Room 200, In
dustries, please return them to key 
room before end of semester.
F. W. HUSTER.
Left All Alone Again Blues.
I stood at my window at midnight 
Staring through the air,
When a comely maid pulled down her 
shade,
And left me standing there.
Cincinnati Bearcat.
ERROR
 * 4* 5* 
The Tom McDonald who was * 
' said to have been elected treas- *> 
1 urer of the Industries Junior 4
 Class in last week's Tartan, was !-
 a mistaken name for Tom
 Donohue. *!
All! BackFirst Postal Cleric: 
from your vacation, oh?
Second Postal Clerk: Yup; back
to tho old stamping ground."
Bear Cat. 
Tho bagpipe is a practical jolco 
which tho Irish put ovor on tho Scotch 
and tho (Scotch havent found it out 
yot.
If you don't feel just right,
If you cant sleep at night,
If you moan and sigh,
If your throat is dry,
If you cant smoke or drink,
If your food tastes like ink.
If your heart doesnt beat,
If youve got cold feet,
If your heads in a whirl
Why dont you marry the girl?
The University News.
It is said that during the greatest 
gridiron battle of the season between 
Princeton and Chicago, that Chicago 
marched down the held and was halt
ed on Princetons three-yard line for 
the first down.  The score stood 
Princeton 24, Chicago 22the last 
quarter.
On tho side lines twenty-two thou
sand fans were on their feet wild with 
excitement  twenty-two thousand 
voices led by peerlees cheer leaders 
crying hopefully, Yea team, we want 
a touchdown!
On the opposite Bide the fans, com
posed of the few admirers who had 
followed the team west; the friends 
and sweethearts of the players, and 
those many loyal souls who regard 
old Princeton as their Alma Mater; 
while lacking in numbers, they made 
up for this deficiency in enthusiastic 
loyalty and in one straining voice 
sent surging over the field the encoux*- 
aging cry of Team! Team! FightFigh't-Fight!
The echo hadnt died away before 
the leaders, with reddened faces, were 
yelling through their megaphones 
with all their might, Lets go! We 
want a touchdown! and again this 
furious mob shot; a roar that fairly 
rocked the stands', with Yea Team! 
We want a touchdown!
The teams were lining up. Undaunt
ed, the Princeton forms cut loose with 
the same words o encouragement, 
Toam! Team!  3^ight-Fight-Fight! 
From and above this thunderous 
roaring appeal came a shrill squeaky 
voice, Dont let them score, Ralph. 
Tho captains ear picked up that 
message like a radio tube detector 
and made him realize his predicament 
in a way that he had never realized 
it before, and in a. tone that cut to 
each mans soul lie grabbed each ono 
and sakl Get your man!!- 
They got their man. Chicago lost 
a yard. On the next down they got 
their man again and again Chicago 
lost a yard.
What should they do? Should they 
fall back and kick? Should they try 
a pass or should they buck the line 
again? Three times now they had 
bucked the lino and found it a stone 
wall. Throe times eleven powerful 
athletes had hurled themselves with 
all tho force and the pent'up energy 
In a trained athletic body purged by 
tho realization of the situation, 
thoughtless of their personal danger, 
had litorally thrown themselves at 
their opponents line and three times 
tho opponents met this terrific on
slaught and gained a yard each time.
The spectators now were a mob, 
Yelllug, waving their handkerchiefs, 
tossing their hats, hopefully praying 
that Chicago would carry that old 
pigskin across the line for a touch
down which would mean victory for 
Chicago and place them in that great 
eastern class.
Tho leaders again mustered the 
cheer and in deafening appeal came, 
Yea team! We want a touchdown! 
From the opposite side came, 
Team! Team! Fight-Fight-Fight!  
The teams were lining up. The 
cryer yelled through his megaphone 
fourth down, 5 yards to gain.
What a moment.
Within the next few second Chi
cago would be carried from their 
home field a valiant victor, by their 
admirers, or would suffer a defeat 
that only fate might deal.
Out of this human vortex of insane 
rooters came another thunderous 
plaintive appeal, no other words would 
come"Team! Team! We want a 
touchdown! .
Right back canie the encouraging 
yell of Team! Team! Fight-FightFight! They could think of noth
ing else.
Once more from that mighty roar 
came that shrill, squeaky voice Hold 
them this time, Ralph.
The captain's ear, deaf to all tills 
clamor, picked up this message in 
some miraculous way and imparted it 
to his mem in the command of Hold 
them this time!
Signals Avoro being given. Tho in
stant tho hall was shot by tho ceuter, 
that instant the captain had wormed 
past his man through the outer guard 
and had the runner down; Chicago 
losing two yards. Princeton kicked 
out of danger and won by a score of 
24 to 22.
It nevor lias been satisfactorily ex
plained how Chicago could march 
down the field to be halted on the 
three-yard line aud lose a yard on the 
next two downs and two yards on the 
iiual down. But, as the players came 
from their dressing room they were 
met by their admirers who had wait
ed to pay the victors homage. Their 
friends and sweethearts were shower
ing congratulations when the little 
captain came, and amid these finely 
furred and faultlessly dressed sweetCOMMENTS
A DEFENSE OF CRAMMING
As the struggle for grades and de
grees goes into its last round, dis
cussion is rife as to the efficacy of 
marshalling ones faculties through 
the small hours of the morning in an 
attempt to drive home a knock-out 
blow before the final gong peals for 
those who get by and knells for 
those who must start their trek home
ward with had eyes.
Cramming is a bad practice the fac
ulty has always said and so it is if 
one relies entirely upon it to pass 
his course. Psychologists have point
ed out that education taken in small 
doses keeps one under the spell of in
telligence much longer than a huge 
quantity gulped on the eve of battle. 
So likewise the bankers have told us 
that saving a dollar a day will, in a 
few years, lead to the accumulation 
of a surprisingly large fortune. We 
dont dispute either.
But while cramming is admittedly 
not the best of all possible ways of 
storing knowledge, yet it is deserving 
of the next place in the list. For 
cramming is nothing less than highpowered concentration. It is think
ing under pressure; it is the arrange
ment of a great bulk of scattered frag
ments into an orderly whole. In one's 
own experience it is not strange to 
find that one has learned more in a 
night of cramming than in a whole 
semester of intermittent and in ef
fectual skimmings. The small and 
regular doses to which psychologists 
and educators refer are but sugarcoated pills to the T. N. T. tablets 
consumed in midnight vigils.
We have little respect for the stu
dent who does not gird his mental 
loins for the last lap into the dark. 
It slioWs, prlma facie, that he is eith
er so confident in his own mental su
periority that he must surely be a 
conceited ass, or that his backbone 
turns yellow under the acid test. A 
few of the-timid lambs perhaps are 
frightened by tho bugaboo of injury 
to health which many of our 
OAvn instructors have dwelt 
upon and which still is used 
an excuse for throwing up the sponge 
In the last round. But we might add 
that if intensive study were conducive 
to ill health, the majority of the 
worlds great men would neveh have 
reached the ripe age of twenty-five.
Cramming is probably one of the 
beset signs of mental health in the 
student body. Certainly it is the only 
mental state which students go into 
with anything approaching enthu
siasm. The majority really do be
come seriouspassing ones work 
after all is quite momentousand the 
fact that they are ready to work them
selves into a white heat, figuratively 
speaking, shows that we have not yet 
reached the point where frivolity 
turns into mental decay.  Daily 
Iowan.
As For the Good of Carnegie 
Tech sings its swan song for 1923, 
we beg to call to your attention for 
the last time its purpose.
A man once said to me: Get the
Facts.
This colums has tried to give to 
you in concise statements the truth 
about CARNEGIE TECH. Many de
partments have been written-up in a 
manner to show that they really are 
worth-while. Efforts have been made 
to show how they are of service, 
economically, to the business world. 
In doing this the writer has taken 
into consideration another statement 
that another man once said to him. 
Tlie words of this man were: Do
something. In other words, this is 
just another way of saying that 
achievements are the only things that 
really countnothing else matters. 
Therefore, this column has tried to 
tell you the achievements of CARNE
GIE men, who have done things of 
benefit to the world at large.
Now that our year is over, many 
of us will be pulling out for the old 
home town. You are taking with you 
fond memories of Carnegie Tech. 
More, if you have read this column 
weekly, you ought to have choice 
bits of information. Furthermore, if 
you have done your hit for CARNE
GIE, you have had instilled in your 
very being a love and devotion that 
knowns no bounds. You have learned 
to know her; to appreciate her great
ness; to appreciate and help solve 
her problems. All of these things 
should be incorporated into your very 
being as an integral part.
George H. Carl.
Parent (to son who had just re
turned after four j^ears in Eastern col
lege) : My boy, you are a man.
Son: Dont be silly, Old Fellow
Im a father, youre his grand-pop and 
her father-in-law.
Stude (angrily)Waiter, theres a 
dead fly in my soup. This is the sec
ond time such a thing has happened. 
Waiter (sympathetically)Ah, poor 
things. Its boilin em as kills em.- 
The Bulletin.
Mistress: I saw the milkman kiss 
you this morning, Janet. Ill take the 
milk in myself after this.
Janet: It wont do you any good,
mum, he promised to kiss nobody ex
cept me.
Log.
But, for them to be merely a part 
within does CARNEGIE no good. You 
should be willing to part with it 
You should not keep it to yourself.
The plan is as follows. As you 
wander around your home town, loaf
ing on the comer, or eating in its 
star nash-house with friends of yours, 
dont forget to sling a good line re
garding the benefits of Dear . Old 
Tech. Do not forget to tell of her 
achievements, which is written down 
as the achievements of her alumni 
who are out in the world of hard 
knocks.
There will be after June many 
thousands of high school graduates 
who are busily  seeking information 
about different schools and colleges. 
They are undecided upon which of 
these they will attend for the next 
four years. Many times a little hit 
of argument will turn them towards 
one. There is your chance. You 
have the correct dope about CARNE
GIE TECH. This dope proves beyond 
all doubt that we have a school that 
is worthy of the most careful consid
eration. And, as for spiritwell. 
Campus Week proved that CARNE
GIE TECH SPIRIT Is right there.
Fellows, make it your bounden 
duty to get at least another student 
from your home town for CARNE
GIE.
Yours for the greatest school in al3 
the land.
SENIOR INSTRUCTIONS
To wed or not to wed, is the ques
tion. Whether tis better to remain 
single and disappoint a number of 
women for a time, or marry and dis
appoint one woman for life.
Bear Cat.
What is a cynic?
A cynic, my dear, is a man who has 
nevor stepped out with anything but 
a co-ed, and who claims that all wo
men aro alike.
Cincinnati Bearcat.
hearts was a little woman, waiting 
nervously, patiently, proudly.
Ralph took one of her wrought toilworn hands in his, her arm in the 
other and beamingly exclaimed, This 
is my sweetheart, boys!
And the little woman with the outof-date hat and a suit several years 
old, was the owner of the shrill, 
squeaky voicehis mother.
REITER.
Caps and GownsCaps and gowns 
will be worn by all candidates for 
graduation documents, both at the 
Baccalaureate Address and at the 
Commencement Exercises. Caps and 
gowns will be distributed from the 
Y. M. C. A. office, Central Building, in 
accordance with the following sched
ule: Day Scliool Graduates, Friday,
June 8th, 1:30 p. m.; Night School 
Graduates, Friday, June 8th, 6:30-8:30 
m.; Sunday, June 10th, 6:30-7:30 
p. m.
Caps and gowns should he turned 
in at the check room in the lobby of 
the Carnegie Music Hall immediately 
after the Commencement Exercises, 
Further information may be obtained 
from R. V. Davis, Y. M. C. A. office, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Commencement Procession  At 
9:45 oclock Friday morning, June 
15th, the marshals will form the class, 
es assigned to them in columns oi 
twos in the first floor corridors of 
their respective buildings. The order 
of the march over the bridge to the 
Music Hall will be as follows:
1. Facility.
2. Graduate students in all col
leges. '
3. Margaret Morrison Seniors.
4. Seniors of the Division of Co
operative Research.
5. Arts Seniors.
6. Engineering Seniors.
7. Industries Seniors.
The Seniors of the Margaret Morri
son Carnegie College are to assemble 
promptly at 9:40 oclock , in the first 
floor corridor of the Margaret Morri
son Building on Friday morning, June 
15th. At 9:45 the line of march will 
move towards the Central Building to 
fall in immediately behind the faculty 
at the Central Building.
The procession will start promptly 
at 10 a. m.
In case of rain the march will be 
omitted, the graduates to assemble in 
the orchestra rehearsal room in the 
basement of the Institute at 10 a. m. 
In case the decision is made that the 
march will1 be omitted on account of 
rain, the telephone operator will be 
given this information. The Seniors 
will assemble in the left of the Foyer 
of the Carnegie Music Hall. The 
Marshals will observe the same line 
of formation. Students in the line 
of march will not require cards of ad
mission to the Commencement Exer
cises.
Commencement Exercises  The 
Commencement Exercises will be held 
in the Carnegie Music Hall at 10:30 
a. m., Friday, June 15. All graduates 
must be present. Graduation docu
ments will not be granted to students 
who do not attend the exercises, un
less a satisfactory excuse is present
ed in advance to the Director of the 
College. The orator will be Dr. Al
bert Shaw, Editor of the American 
Review of Reviews.
OrchestraMembers of the orches
tra will assemble promptly at 10:15 
in Room B, back of the stage.
Seating ArrangementsThe grad
uating class will occupy the following 
seats. (Each class Marshal will fol
low this assignment in leading his 
class group to seats).
Candidates for the Doctors, Masters 
and Professional DegreesOrchestra, 
ceuter, rows A, B, C.
Fine Arts SeniorsOrchestra, right, 
rows A, B, C., Orchestra Circle, right, 
rows A, B, C.
Margaret Morrison SeniorsOrch
estra, center, rows D, E, F, G, H, J, 
K, L.
Co-operative Research Seniors 
Orchestra, right, row D.
Engineering Seniors  Orchestra, 
left, rows A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, J, 
K, L. Orchestra Circle left center, 
rows A, B, C, D. Orchestra Circle, 
left, rows A, B, C, D.
Industries Seniors  Orchestra, 
right, rows E, F, G, H, J, K, L. Orch
estra Circle, center, rows A, B, C, 
Orchestra Circle, right center, rows 
A, B, C.
Class Marshals should obtain cop
ies of the Commencement Program 
from the office of the Registrar pre
vious to the march from the campus 
and arrange to have the Seniors seat
ed in the order in which the names 
appear on the program.
Receiving DiplomasThe director 
of each college will present to the 
president the recommendations of the 
faculty concerning the awarding of 
graduation documents, presenting the 
candidates in the order in which the 
names appear on the printed program. 
After the conclusion of the Directors
presentation the entire group arises 
and proceeds to the- platform, using 
the steps at the left of the stage go
ing up and to the right coming down, 
going out around the back corridor 
and down the aisles through the house 
immediately to their seats. The mar
shals will be in the back corridor to 
give directions concerning returning 
to seats.
Care should be taken to avoid cop-, 
fusion and unnecessary noise in the 
back corridor so that those occupying 
the rear seats of the orchestra circle 
may not he disturbed.
Exchanging Diplomas - Graduates 
will understand that there is not suf
ficient time to make a correct distri
bution of the diplomas on the plat
form. Immediately after the com
mencement exercises the diplomas 
should be passed around until each 
graduate has received the document 
marked with his or her name. If any
one holds a document for which the 
owner cannot be found,, it should be 
delivered to Mr. Bright on the plat
form immediately after the exercises.
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
Now little Miss Hubbard,
Went to the cupboard 
To get her bathing suit there;
But the poor little peach 
Was pinched on the beach,
Because the cupboard was bare.
Log.
Tinner: Ive come to fix that old
tub in the kitchen.
Little Boy: Oh, mamma! Heres
th doctor t.o see the cook.
She: Have you anything on your
hip?
(He: Yes, a mole, but Im not go
ing to 'show it to you.
Im going to quit the hold up game, 
111 hang around the joints no 
more,
Aud with a sigh and gasping cry 
The garter stretched out on the 
floor.
When I first Idssed sweet Mildred 
She was vetry vexed at me;
I still remember her very words, 
Oh please dont! said she. 
Again last night I kised her 
And how happy it made me,
The same words sounded different, 
Oh please dont stop, said she.
LINES FROM
FAMOUS LIBERALS
The rights of one sex are the 
same as those of the other sex, 
and this equality of rights 
ought to be fully recognized. 
Leland Stanford.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor.
:: Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class ............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
FOUR-POWER
TREATY
cThe Most important Treaty 
ever negotiated by the IS
United States
Copies now beinjr distributed exclusively by tho
!HM ERSIALRM1 .OJULRN2YYP
Sixty-one Years in Business. Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
For free copies apply to any 
agent or to the home office of 
the Company, 197 Clarendon 
Street, Boston, Massachusetts

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
i !------PLAID ATHLETICS-----
CARNEGIE FOURTH GymWhosy eoCW yorny
IN SCHENLEY MEET
Penn State Wins Pitt InterCollegiate Meet With 
Tri-State Schools
Beneatli a brilliant sun tliat smiled 
warmly upon athletes and spectators 
gathered at Schenley Oval last Satur
day afternoon, Penn State earned the 
Tight to call herself the champion 
track team of the tri-state district. In 
this, the seventeenth annual meet 
held under the auspices of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh, the Nittany 
boys romped away for first honors 
with a score of 63% points.
Not that she had an easy afternoon 
-of it, though. She was only five and 
one-half points ahead of Pitt, who in 
turn was closely followed by West 
"Virginia and Carnegie. The points 
garnered by the last three were 58, 
47 and 25%, respectively.
Ideal weather favored the athletes 
as they went through the events, and 
an excellent array of officials handled 
the meet in a very snappy and thor
ough manner. The Collegiate meet 
was combined an Inter-Scholastic pro
gram, which Bellefonte Academy won 
after a thrilling fight with Kiski. 
Schenley High finished a rather low 
third.
In the 100-yard dash prelims, Rob
ertson finished second in his heat, 
but failed to place in the finals, which 
was taken by West Virginia. The 
220 event was also taken by the 
Mountaineer flash, DAiuto, who beat 
out Szold of Carnegie in a thrilling 
race. The 440 and 8S0-yard runs were 
both taken by the State speedster, 
Helffrick. The Plaid failed to place 
in either of these events.
The mile run was won by Enclc, one 
of the members of Penn States cham
pionship relay- team, with Ferral plac
ing fourth. The two-mile run provid
ed some of the best thrills of the aft
ernoon, when Dykeman after leading 
the field for over a mile, was passed 
by Kreiter of State; but the latter 
evidently spent himself in this hurst 
of-Qpeed,' for he could not hold the ad
vantage, and Dykeman in a great 
spurt at the finish, won his race. 
Jimmy Robertson won his heat in the 
120 high hurdles but could do no bet
ter than fifth in the finals. This 
event was also taken by StateKauff
man being the leader.
The 220 low hurdles likewise went 
to State when Hile led the field. Gare, 
the lanky Tartan, placed fifth. Pete 
Pittman tied with Tice of State for 
third place in the broad jump, but the 
Plaid failed to place in the high jump. 
The final points for the Skibos wc-re 
made when Sprinkle threw third bast 
in the hammer throw, and Schillinger 
took second honors in the discus 
throw.
IN GIRLS SWIM MEET
Just as in their book knowledge at
tainments, the girls of the Senior 
class are head over heels (?) above
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
CARNEGIE TECH PLACES IN PITT INTERCOLLEGIATES
Considering the small number of Plaid entries in the Pitt Intercollegiate [ 
the rest of the classes in swimming, i track meet held at Schenley Oval last Saturday, both Coach Beeler and his
Track Men to Hold Last 
Meeting in Beta House
New Track Team Leader 
Will Be Chosen
Inter-Frat Basketball CARNEGIE DEFEATS 
Council Holds Meeting! NITTANY NETMEN
But, they could not prove this fact 
without a very hard struggle with 
the Sophomores, who after two years 
as Maggie Murphs came to the con
clusion that their rightful place was 
near the top, and as a result, went 
over to the Rodef Shalom swimming 
pool last week and acquired just two 
points less than the lordly Seniors, 
thus putting to riot every vistage of 
the Seniors claim to overwhelming 
superiority in this branch of spoils.
Seniors. 29; Sophomores, 27; Jun
iors, 24; and Freshmen, 22.
I The above is the final standing after 
all of the fair mermaids had finished 
showing their ability to act like fishes, 
swans, and ducks, much to the amuse
ment of the large gathering of Maggie 
Murphs and Arts. (Men were for some
harriers are to be congratulated for doing the maximum of what was ex
pected of them from their previous exhibitions as compared with the stars 
from other competing colleges and universities.
DYKEMAN BREAKS TWO-MILE SCHOOL RECORD 
Howdy Dykeman, the Plaid long distance runner, distinguished himself 
all season by capturing many first places, but not until the Pitt Intercolle
giate meet did he break the old 2-mile record of 9:56 established by C. D. 
Miller, *22. The new record is 9:53 1-5.
Last DCCEM the Inter-Fraternity 
Basket Ball League hold Its last moot
ing of the year. There were eleven 
j fraternities and dormitories present. 
It was decided at this meeting to post
pone the election of officers to early 
next. year.
It may be of interest to tho student 
body to know that the Y. M. C. A. do
nated 550 and two basket balls to In
ter-fraternity basket ball. It was an
nounced at, tho mooting that tho Y" 
would run the activity next year. This
FUNDS FOR ABROAD 
Successful armies must 
maintain their lines of 
communication. Likewise 
successful travelers. Mel
lon Travelers Checks and 
Letters of Credit assure a 
reliable connection with 
home resource while 
abroad. It is the<s 1HT 
way to carry funds. .Rl
Mellon National Bank
Oliver Jlue.S Smvthfield
i.
TILDEN COMING TO PITTSBURGH
This item of news will be of interest to every Carnegie Tech student 
because Chuck Garland, Carnegie Techs racquet coach and President of the j with a doughnut in each hand a glass 
Pittsburgh Tennis Association, will be in charge of the thirty-fifth annual j of cider in the other. Who composes 
championship tennis tournament to be held on the P. A. A. courts Juue 23-30.
William Tilden, second national tennis champion, will, be entered in this 
tournament and since he and Chuck Garland were two of the four men on 
the 1919 American Davis cup team which brought back the trophy to the 
United States, the attraction will be of double interest.'
Next Friday night, the Beta Tliota 
Pi house will be the sceno of a gen
eral and free-for-all bull session of 
the members and managers oi the var
sity track team.
Dean Munhall is said to bo tho Hon
orary Chairman, High Priestess or 
whatever you want' to call him, of the j splendid work on the part of tho Y. 
whole darn shindig, and will be there I JW C. A. has been a great help aud is
appreciated by ovoryone.
RIGHT NOW
Is the time when Carnegie Tech Alumni can do their bit toward strength
ening some particular sport or bettering athletics in generalby taking the 
pains to seek high school and preparatory school athletes and talking up 
reason or other excluded from gazing j the advantages of a growing institution versus one whoso traditions are well 
upon this glorious exhibition. But, established or one where competition is so keen that the active students 
never mind, a day will arrive when I name must precede his entrance in order to give him the same opportunity
these aforesaid maltreated gentlemen 
will be permitted to view this famous 
spectacle. Giving away a secret, this 
time "will arrive simultaneously with 
the new gym. Now, there is another 
reason for looking forward to the new 
gym.)
But, getting down to the business 
at hand, this swimming meet took 
place one day last week. The events 
consisted of plunges for distance; 
swimming for form; relay race, and 
diving for form.
In the plunge for distance, Helen 
Lloyd negotiated 47 feet, thus giving 
her class 10 points. Any gii*l who 
plunged over 40 feet added 10 points 
to her classs total points.
The relay race was won by the 
Senior class team, represented by 
"Cubbie Lyons, Chummy Macrum, 
and Eleanor Craver. The rest of the 
Senior team were Ruth Snyder and 
Winifred Rice.
Doubles in the girls' tennis tourna
ment are still unfinished. They 
might be finished too is the cheerful 
word from the manipulator of this af
fair.
NATIONAL TUBE CO. WILL
ERECT LAB. NEAR CAMPUS
(Continued From Page One)
The laboratory will be of two 
stories and equipped with all the 
most modern scientific in struments 
and appliances for testing and re
search. It is hoped that the National 
Tube Company will co-operate with 
the school in its Investigations, and 
it was partly with this view that the 
site was chosen in its present loca
tion.
Pythias
I certainly, am. Id do anything in the world for you. Yes, anything V
Damon
All rightprove itl Give mo hack that Eldorado pencil you borrowed last night."
091,ra1O
~l/ie master drawing pencil"
17 leadsall dealer*
VACATION TIME
IS HEBE
Summer Togs for College Men
WHITE SHIRTS 
WHITE DUCK and FLANNEL TROUSERS
Davies & Hughes
Oaklands Men's Store
3615 FORBES STREETNext to Strand Theater
Open Evenings
Alumni, you owe it to your Alma Mater aud weof the other first-year men. 
need your help.
THANKS TO *Y
The co-operation of the Y. M. C. A. in its efforts to work with the va
rious Inter-frat(Jrnity-Dormitory events of the year is not overlooked when 
summing up the reports from committees. Not only the financial donations 
are appreciated, but also the aid it promises toward increasing interest in 
the future.
DELTA UPSILON WINS TRACK CUP
Very agreeably the slight oversight in the Inter-fraternity-Dormitory 
track meet was settled with little or no friction arising between the two con
tested parties. The reflection is all for the good and the sportsman-like at
titude of the loser is to be commended. Sigma Nu was a close second and 
the cup, donated by the Tlieta Tau Honorary, was a beauty, so no ono could 
blame either team for registering complaint over a technical point.
HAUSAUER 1924 TENNIS CAPTAIN
Bob Hausauer was unanimously elected tennis captain by the 1923 letter 
men at a meeting called immediately after the Yale match. Bob is a Sopho
more in the College of Industries aud his ability as a loader was apparent 
all through the past season, during which time he paired well in doublos 
with the retiring captain, Connie Schwartz.
MANY ATHLETES AMONG 
MAGGY MURPH SOPHS
The Sophomore girls of Margaret 
Morrison have ended a very success
ful athletic season, having lost only 
two contests, one in basket ball and 
one in baseball, and both of these to 
the Seniors.
Their success was not due only to 
proficiency but to the interest shown 
by the class as a whole. The follow
ing girls have won their initial ath
letic association pins; Margarot Markey, Maud Cook, Bessie Bulmer, Hel
en Dougherty and Rose Morin. Most 
of these girls will win their Carnegie 
"C next year.
During the year tho Sophomores 
won three silver loving cups. Inter
sorority cup for basket ball; the Jun
ior cup for tho winner of the SopliFreslunan indoor gymnasium meet, 
and the Athletic Association cup for 
tho champion volley ball team, while 
tho. baseball trophy was won by tho 
Seniors.
DR. SHAW WILL BE 
COMMENCEMENTSPEAKER
DELTA UPSILON 
WINS TRACK CUP
Committee Finally Settles 
Dispute Over Eligibility 
of One of Contestants
the rest of tho committee is of no mo
ment. In fact wo really dont know 
for sure that a committee is working 
on the thing.
You are not supposed to como with 
tho expectation of enjoying yourself 
or anything like that. Only bo sure 
to be well versed on Freud and the 
correct manipulation of tea cups and 
you will get along all right. Just as 
a minor consideration the letter men 
should give some thought between 
now and then to the selection of a 
new leader for the track team.
Tho Tartan wishes it to bo under
stood that it is absolutely non-partisan
Plans were discussed at the meet,-, 
ing for creating moro interest in this 
activity and making it bettor next 
year than it was this yeni\
SENIOR BALL TEAM
DONS FEMALE GARB
(Continued From Pago One) 
ting to go in the othor direction and 
it is expected that by game time, tho 
odds will be in favor of the fair sox.
In order to make it appear that 
they are still playing under a. handi
cap, the men liavo substituted for
left-handed playing the adoption of 
women's clothing as their uniform, 
on tho issue and only says that tho I This has been approved by the girls,
new captain should bo on who is per- but they stipulate that no veils b?
fectly worthy of succeeding Chester 
Brumbaugh.
Ah, yes, and one of those dear lit
tle assistant managers Avho is always 
trying to look busy suggested that the 
track men hand in equipment as soon 
as possible. This young man seemed 
to think that it was not tho proper 
thing for the athletes to hang on to 
their union suitsbeg pardon, uni
formstoo long after hostilities wore 
over.
CORNERSTONE OF NEW GYM
TO BE LAID WEDNESDAY
Last Wednesday night the Inter 
fraleruity-Donnltory track committee 
met and finally settled the dispute 
which had arisen in regard1 to the' 
eligibil ly of one of the contestants. 
As a result the Delta Upsilon frateraity wins the meet with 34 points. 
Sigma Nu came second with 32, Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon third with 25, 
Delta Xi fourth with 22, and Delta 
Tau Delta fifth with 18.
The argument which came up over, 
the eligibility of one of tho contest
ants was entirely out of place and 
was absolutely unnecessary, Poor 
sportsmanship on tho part of ono 
fraternity was pronounced. The 
whole question should have boon set
tled the day of tho meet when the 
whole tiling was fresh In everyone's 
mind and not a month lator whon 
everyching was guess work.
Aslue from tho abcvo dispute tho 
track meet was vory successful. 
There was keen interest shown by 
the whole student body In the sever
al events and the competition was 
very close. It did much good tor tho
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
(Continued From Page One.) 
the Minneapolis Tribune. In 1891 he 
established and has ever since edited 
the American Review of Reviews. He 
has) been in constant demand as a 
lecturer and has filled engagements 
in many colleges and universities dur 
ing his life.
A student of political science and 
economics, and especially of muncip-| mem in the meet in the way of exor
al government, he has already con-[ else and was very inexpensive to run 
tributed many notable books and j off. The total expenses were only 
works on various problems in those about $10.
fields. As far back as 1895 he wasj it j practically certain that Inter
awarded the John Marshall prize byj Fraternity track will be a permanent 
Johns Hopkins University, for books activity at Caraegie. Tho credit for 
on municipal government. jts phenomenal success in its first
His public life has been full and in-j year is duo to C. N. Hollingsworth,
teresting. In 1907 he was president j the* president of the meet. He perof the Jury of Awards at the James-! formed his duties in his usual effitown Eposition, and in 1912 he served; cient and busines like manner.
as a member of the Board of Arbitra-j ___________________
tion in the controversy between the: CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
Eastern railroads and the locomotive! ELECT CLUB OFFICERS
engineers. | _______
The Commencement celebration: (Continued From Page One)
this week will be unusual this year, j be inscribed with the initials of the
if for no other reason than the emi-l donors and1 will be kept in custody
nence of the speakers during the 0f the president,
week. In Dr. Shailer Mathews, the j About a dozen 1926 men who have
baccalaureate speaker, Dr. Shaw, the j elected Chemistry or Chemical EngiCommencement orator, and A. Alonza j neering were present at the meeting, 
Stagg, the speaker at the comer j which was enlivened by the stunts 
stone exercises on Wednesday after-j performed by the members of the upnoon, we may well feel proud thatj per classes and by the presence of 
we are identified with Carnegie Tech J Professor Stevens of the Department
this year.
TO OPEN EIGHT WEEK
SUMMER COURSES JUNE 25
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the 
quality and service.
A, W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United StateB or Canada.
of Chemistry.
The Senior stunt consisted of a 
faculty caricature by Briggs, Mars* 
den and Prey. They were somewhat 
. handicapped in their efforts by the
(Continued from Page One) presence of Prof. Stevens. The Junbut less advanced subjects are j j0rs provided a treat in the form of 
offered; also courses in Engineering; m0vlcs wit|1 Mr_ * at tho crank 
Drawing; Manual Training; Practice; j Tll0 sophomores conlributon was a 
ami Sanitary Equipment and Installs mBic lfiKt |)y B|Uw> Punlthoullr and
X?PU2 o | Inman. The meeting was closed with
d a few storie, by 
ProfesHoi Stevens.garet Morrison College is devoted 
chiefly to Home Economics, and in
cludes Costume Design; Nutrition; 
(Sewing; and Marketing.
The College of Fine Arts offers 
courses in Music; Painting and Illus
trating and Architecture. The course 
In Architecture is divided Into three 
parts: Design; Working Drawings
and Super!atendimco of Works; and 
Outdoor Sketching.
Special work for teachers, in co
operation with the University of 
Pittsburgh, is to be given in Psychol
ogy and Education.
Full details of all tho summer 
classes can be found in the Bulletin 
of Summer Courses.
Devil: What in the Hell are you
laughing at?
His Assistant: "Oh, I just had that 
flapper locked up in a room with a 
thousand hats and no mirror.
Bear Cat.
SEVERAL UNSOLD THISTLES
MAY BE BOUGHT AT OFFICE
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
Technical Journal,
Dragon Society,
Pi Delta Epsilon,
McGill Hall,
Scobol Hall,
Social Workers Club, 
Household Economics Club, 
Science Club,
Physical Education Club, 
Debating Association,
Citmas Club,
Metallurgists' and Miners' 
Radio Club.
Club,
ModelI'll do ten draped poses for 
?50.00, pay when you will.
ArtistHow much will you take off 
for cash down?Exchange.
(Continuod From Page Ono.)
Contributions to tho Stone:
Represontotivo of tho Trustoo's 
Building Committee.
Architect of. tho Gymnasium.
Representative of tho Faculty.
Representative of tho Alumni Fed
eration.
Ropresentatlvo of tho Student Coun
cil.
Representative of tho Athlotlc 
Council.
Representative of the Women Stu
dents.
Laying of the Stono..Johu L. Portor 
Chairman, Trustee's Cominlttoo on 
the Institute of Technology.
Address ..................................A. A. Stagg
Head of Department of Physical Edu
cation, Univorsity of Chicago.
Mass Singing .............Student Body
In case of rain, tho stone will bo 
laid on tho alto, but tho addrassos will 
be given in tho Theator, in the Col
lege of Fine Arts.
The Building.
In gonoral design tho now gymna
sium is to follow tho spirit of pictur
esque grouping of units to form when 
finally finishod a largo architectural 
composition.
Tho material Is to bo light colored 
brlclc similar to tho other buildings, I 
and in placed on a piece of property j 
400x200 foot. Its plan lit most un
usual for It has separatod tho differ
ent units such as tho gymnasium for 
men, tho gymnasium for women, l.lio 
administration division and tho swim
ming pool, giving each a soparato 
building having windows on throo or 
four sldos and arranged in picturesque 
grouping. This does away with tho 
skylight which has always boon trou
blesome in buildings of this character.
The gymnasium for men is about 
93x185 feet spanned with three point 
steel arches, with a wood block floor 
and at one end a large stage has been 
constructed.
The swimming pool which is 75x35 
feet has ample space one one side for 
bleachers, and directly on the side of 
the swimming -pool building is tho 
shower and toilet facilities for both 
men and women.
The administration building is a 
a three-story structure. It contains 
two trophy rooms, one for men and 
one for women, the medical offices'for 
the two sexes, two corrective gymna
siums and wrestling, fencing and box
ing rooms.
The womens gymnasium is a room 
40x80 feet and treated a little more 
elegantly so it may be used for en
tertainments.
The locker rooms are directly under 
the men's and womens gymnasium 
buildings respectively. There are two 
main entrances, one for men and one 
for women. The property having con
siderable gr?,de allows these buildings 
to group themselves picturesquely 
one above the other and thus enhanc
ing the interest of their silhouette.
The roofs are all flat and built of 
4x4 tongued and grooved mill flooring 
resting directly on the steel piers and 
girders and decorated with cast Iron 
finials,
Tho arrangement of the plan has 
one thing of a special Interest and 
that Is stairs for men and women. In 
each case there are two flights of 
stairs, ono for direct communication 
between the gymnasium floor and 
locker and shower rooms, and ono for 
communication between the gymna
sium floors and administration quar
ters, thus separating tho active from 
the visiting students.
Tho gymnasium for mon lias a pub
lic entrance at ono end so as to per
mit tho visitors to enter to enjoy any 
athletic events.
A pipo tunnel connects all the build
ings and it in turn is connected with 
the main pipe tunnel of the group. 
This contains tho steam main, elec
tric v/ires and water supjiy.
The building Is extremely simple in 
its use of material.
worn as they fear that the men, in 
desperation, will try to substitute 
ringers. ,
Also, a completa outfit must bo 
worn by every player. Much of the 
hopo of tho masculine team is placed 
in tlioir catcher, Griffin, who, after 
years of experience in Science stags, 
is perfectly at homo in fornaio ap
parel and will do his best to carry 
his team to victory.
A strong list of substitutes will bo 
carried by both teams in order to 
supply life to (ho strength-sapping 
contest and to impross tlio big loague 
scouts that may bo in attendance. 
It is also rumored that Judge Landis 
may be present, in which case, ho 
will nave tho privilege of throwing 
the first ball at Griffin.
No admissiofii will bo charged but 
tho hat will ho passed1 in caso of 
Injury to mombors, of either team, in 
order that the other players may 
fittingly com memrate, at Skibo, the 
sncrlfios of their follow classmates.
Mr. Kennedy (in Junior Lit.)Gen
tlemen, tills talking has got to stop. 
;It seems that every time I open my 
mouth some Idiot has got to talk. 
'Log.
Win Over Penn State But 
Yale Hands Out Defeat 
in Final Match
Carnegie Tech APenn Sta.te 2.
The Tartan lxotmen journeyed to 
Penn State and N<?w Havem last 
week to add now laurels to their long 
string of victories.
Tho local boys gave tho Nittany 
notrnen a real surprise by taking 3 
out of tho four singles matches. 
Schwartz, Marshall and O'Conner all 
won from their opponents, although it 
was tho hardest kind of a fight that 
the Nittany men put forth.
In the doubles, tho State boys camd 
back strong and) fared better by 
breaking even. OiConner and Kell 
fell before the fast playing of Genther 
and Gillen of Penn State. Captain 
Schwartz and Hausauer took over 
Daws and Webster of State, tying 
the score for the doubles.
SINGLES.
Captain Laws, Penn State, defeated 
Hausauer 14-6, 6-2, 6-1.
OConner defeated Webster 6-3, 8-6, 
0-1.
Marshall, Carnegie Toch, defeated 
Blackmoro, 5-7, 7-5, 6-4.
. Solitwartz, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Fatzingor, 6-01 6-1.
DOUBLES.
Genther and Gillen, Penn .State, de
feated OConnor aud Keil, Carnegie 
Tech, 7-5, 2-6, 7-5.
Schwartz and Hausauer defeated 
Laws and Webster, 6-2, 1-6, 7-5.
Students not oqulppod with n leath
er brief onno, n good fountain pen, 
Everahnrp Pencil, bill fold, and nt 
lemit ono piece of "Teoh" Jewelry 
should vlnlt tho Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop In Jenklnn Arcnde.
Yale 9Carnegie Tech 0.
Yolo romped off with every match 
in their contest with Carneglo Tech 
at New Haven last week. Only tho 
SchoonmakoiMH'a.wsor clash went to 
three sets, of tho six shiglos match
es. The Vaughan-OoiiiBto'ck and KollO'Conner match was the only doubles 
that required the odd1 sot.
Captain Luclon Williams, winner 
oi! the New England singles cham
pionship andi mombor of tho Yalo 
team, was unmblo to compoto.
Tho long trip. to VOL3 Ilavon and 
the provlous moot at. Penn Stato 
somewhat woalcenod tho ploying of 
tho local boys which may account for 
tho one-sided score.
Tho summary:
SINGL1SS.
Jones, Yalo, defeated Schwartz, 
6-0, 61.
Whoolfir, Yale, di-foatod OConnor,
7-5, 6-1.
Symington, Yolo, dofoatodl Marshall,
8-6, 6-3.
Vaughan, Yale, defeated Kell, (1*1, 
0-1.
Sohoon maker, Vale, defeated Hou
ser, 0-0, 6-0, 6-2,
'Comstock, Vale, drooted Houaouer, 
0-0, 6-2.
DOUBLES.
.Tone and Hohoonmakor defeated 
Schwartz and Hoinmuer, 6-2, 0*4.
Vaughn and Comstock defeated Kell 
and O'Connor, (1-3, <1  (5, 7-5,
Symington and Hopldns dpCoatotf 
Mu/rshall and Hauser, 7-5, 7-5.
Tho matches scheduled with Le
high, Bucknell and Princeton were 
cancelled, making tho game with 
Yalo tho last of tho season.
Do You Need Extra Courses? |
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English,
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics,
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by corrcnpondancc. Inquire 
liow credits earned may be applied on present college program.
ijr Imufraih} of (2Ii{tragn
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
"Just run along, sun," said the 
cloud, While I have my shower. 
Orange PeeL 
In Terms of
the Colossal
General Motors Building 
Detroit, Michigan 
ALBERT P. KAHN, Architect 
Drawn by, Hush Ferriss
'THE co-ordination of commercial strength, arch- x tectumI vision and engineering kill which 
created thin titanic cjuadruple office building reprecentfl the motive and creative force which has turned 
the eyes of the world toward this type of American 
architecture.
Tim, the largest office building in the world, posticnf.cn fundamentally magnificent largeness hi its 
conception, and a clean-cut directness in its execu
tion which place it among the most significant ot 
American buildings.
, With such existing structural achievements no arch
itectural future is impossible, no project too vase 
or too complex to come readily to our imagination. 
Ccrtainlv modern inventionmodern engineering 
skill and organization, will prove more than equal 
to the demands of the architecture of the future.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Officcs in all Principal Cities of the World

---------------------------------------------------

HUMAN HAIRNETS 
Wade Stronger
PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 6, 1923
Dormitory Men to Have 
Special Rate at CommonsALUMNI OF RETAIL tyilemWiy ynolBe LohW Henderson Hall Open 
BUREAU TO MEET adsWmNhm iman aBdWy y0 summer Students
Alumni Elect Federation Either Mens Commons or 
And Association Officers ; M. M. Open During Summer
Going liome for the summer? 
Whether you are or not, if you are 
going to a town where there is a Car
negie Tech Clan, get in touch with 
the secretary there. Get acquainted 
with him and his followers. Ask him 
if there is any way in which, you can 
help him spread the name and fame 
of Dear Old Carnegie Tech. He may 
give you the opportunity of making 
some suggestions. At least, he will 
be glad to meet you and will invite 
you to the pleasant gatherings on his 
calendar.
If you are leaving Carnegie Tech 
for good become a member of the 
clan in your town and in this way 
keep in touch with your Alma Mater.
First Reunion of Graduates 
in Central Building 
June 14, 15 and 16
Room Deposit Must Be Made 
Before June Twenty
The following regulations and con
ditions are stated for the benefit o 
those deserving to obtain rooms in 
the dormitories for the summer.
If applicant for a room is, at pres
ent, occupying a dormitory room, thebreakage deposit from the second 
semester will be continued, but it wlil 
be necessary to show the Porter, on 
or before June 20, a cashiers receipt 
for the payment of one months rent.
If the applicant is now a dormitory 
occupaut, but in a room other than 
the one applied for, his deposit will! 
be continued, but he must transfer j 
to the room appliei! for, on or before | 
June 21, showing to the Porter at the: 
time of transfer a cashiers receipt 
for payment of one months rent.
In case the applicant is not at 
present a dormitory resident, it will j 
be necessary for him to call at the i 
Cashier's Office on or before June
20, and make a breakage deposit of ! 
?10 (which is returnable when room 
is given up) and pay one months 
rent in advance.
Only I-Iouderson Hall will be used 
for the summer. Summer rentals are 
at the rate of-?2.g0 per week per oc
cupant for double rooms, and $2.75 
p'er week for a single room, payable 
monthly, in - advance.
Dealers report greater hair 
not satisfaction to their cus
tomers than on any other 
hair net.
Why not try a few 
Duro Belle nets 
and sco for yourscif?
Students who have been graduated 
during the past four years from the 
Research Bureau for Retail Training 
at Carnegie Tech will hold their first 
reunion and home-coming at the 
school on June 1*4, 15 and 16. A full 
program of sessions, interspersed 
with various events of entertainment, 
has been arranged for the three-days 
meeting.
Ajnong the speakers will be Miss 
Margaret Castle, 19; W. R. Skillen, 
Supervisor of the Bureau; Walter 
Rosenbaum, of the Rosenbaum Com
pany; Miss Elsie Heewlsclier, 22, Ed
ucational Director, Boggs and Buhl; 
Miss Natalie Kneelana, 21, assistant 
professor, of the Research Bureau; 
Edgar Kaufmann, of Kaufmanus, 
chairman of the Co-operative Board 
in 1920-1921; Dr. W. W. Charters, Di
rector of the Research Bureau; Miss 
Margaret Barker, 20, Director of the 
Retail iSelling, Dayton, Ohio; H. M. 
Phifer, of Joseph Horae Company, 
Chairman of the Co-operative Board, 
1921-1022; Miss Katherine Canada, 
21, Supervisor Retail Training, Al
toona; Miss Fredoniai J. Ringe, '21, 
Assistant Professor, of the Research 
BureauA large attendance of former grad
uates, many or whom are now occu
pying important capacities in the re
tail training field, is expected. All 
of the business meetings will be held 
in the Central Building.
Tltiy them by the
Movies of Campus Week 
To Be Shown Next Week
Negotiations are being carried on 
with the managements of three down
town theaters for showing the movies 
made during Campus Week. At pres
ent nothing definite is available for 
announcement, but it is thought that 
by tonight all arrangements will be 
completed. Watch the bulletin boards 
for final announcement of the theater 
and time of the showing, and make 
your date.
The pictures are very good, show
ing views of the girls track meet, 
girls scooter car race, Inter-fraternity 
sweepstakes and the coronation of 
the Queen. Close up are made of Li
vonia Osborne, winner of the 50-yard 
dash for girls and the broad jump; 
Cubbie Lyons and Virginia Clark, 
winning Mellon Hall team in the 
Scootor race, and of Peg Harmon, 
Queen of Carnegie.
All in all the pictures ai6 excep
tionally clear, and though far from 
perfect, are good as representative 
movies of these specific events of the 
celebration.
The theater showing these will be 
doing it largely as an experiment, 
and fof this reason it is urged that 
every Carnegie Toch student, former 
student and alumill avail themselves 
of the opportunity, and take them in. 
Another reason is that there will be 
no other showing of themthis will 
therefore be your only opportunity. 
Make it good!
Clarion
Carnegie Tartan Writer 
Criticizes 1923 ThistleDirectory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni FederationProsident. S. G. Little, 10; First Vice President, J. F. 
Laboon, 12; second Vico Presidont, H. L. Heilman, '17; Third Vico Pros
ident, Genevieve Cushwa, 12; Fourth Vico Prosidont, S. M. Vincent, 08; 
Socrotnry, Edna C. Smith, 09; Treasurer, G. L. Tllbroolc, '15.
Board of GovernorsCdlogo of Fine ArtsH. H. Heilman, '17; M. M. 
Steen, 08; Frank Knaron, Assoclato.
Collego of IndustriesS. G. Little, '10; A. J. Ilynd, 22; W. II. 
Ritts, 12.
College of EngineeringJ. F. Laboon, '12; G. L. Tllbrook. 15; M. R. 
Walton, '09.
Margarot Morrison Carnoglo CollogoFloronco Bochtol, '18; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, '09; Edna C. Smith, '09.
Representatives at LargeGonovlovo Cushwa, .12; S. M. Vincont, '08. 
Officers of Alumni AssociationsCollege of Fine ArtsProsidont, II. L. Hall1 
mon. '17; Socrotary, Frank II. ITaaron;
* Board of GovornorsC. O. Riogor, 18; Dorothea Stolnnmchor, li>.;
Frodorlc McConnell, '17; Chnrlotto Smith, '18; Sarah Owon, 
Assoclato.
College of IndustriesPrealdont, S. G. Llttlo, 10; Vico Prosidont, C. 
IC. Koont/., '17; Socond Vico Pronldont, K. II. B. Julian, '16; Soorotary-Treasuror, A J. Ilynd, '22.
Board of GovornorsL. T. Kolly, Assoclato L. II. Loo, '09; F. Mlllor, 
09; J. M. Orr, '15; G. T. Iloddaous, '19; F. A. Crothorn. '21. 
College of EngineeringProsidont, J. F. Laboon, '12; SocrotaryTreasuror, G. L. Tllbrook, *15.
Board of GovornorsR. S. Wilson, '15; M. R. Walton, 09; E. F. 
Hirsh, 20; F. I. CJnston, '09; G. L. Tllbrook, 15; II. S. Stoclcdalo, '15; H. G. Nichol, '21; J. F. Laboon, '12; R, G. CoBgrovo, 
'18; E. E. Duff, '13.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegeProsidont, Floronco I. Bochtol, 
'18; First Vico Prosidont., Jano Llndornmn Colo. 11; Second Vloo 
Prosidont, Suo Smith. '17; Socrotary-Tronnuror, Edna O. Smith,
PUPPET WILL APEAR
ON REGISTRATION DAYFinds Much to PraiseVery 
Little to Condemni/Distindbtx)
.......JXn___(Continued From Page One) 
ierent method will be adopted to 
. bring this about. In former years, 
the material for the contest was colUeoted' before time to" -alia*.- .
^aDmit it. The contributions were 
made up in haste and the result was 
that not enough material was subomitted. Netxt year, Puppet proposes 
to win the contest by consistent ef
fort throughout the year from he 
time school begins until the contest 
closes. The best of the material re
ceived for each issue of Puppet will 
be saved for the contest, in addition 
to tho regular contributions. Any
thing or any idea is wanted. Nothing 
will be wasted, if possible. The Art 
Department will furnish co-operation 
. hy helping to work up ideas, and to 
furnish illustrations where they are 
needed.
New men are asked to contribute 
to Puppet as soom as possible. Pup
pet wants to publish only original 
material next year and this policy 
will be considered in accepting 
jokes. All material submitted should 
K*>nta)in [the originjiitJa.ifB signature 
and class number.
Annual Pentathlon Will 
Be Held Friday-4:30 p. m
Next Friday afternoon, at 4:30, the 
annual Pentathlon events will be held 
in the Carnegie Bowl. All athletes 
who anticipate taking part in the con
tests should present themselves at 
the Field House at that time.
The Pentathlon has been an annual 
event for the last several years, held 
for the purpose of determining who 
are the best all-round athletes in the 
school. Jimmy Robertson won first 
place last year, and will be a strong 
contender this year.
The events are five in number and 
include the 100-yard dash, the mile 
run, the broad jump, javelin throw 
and discus throw. It has been the 
custom to award a trophy to the 
winner.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Cnpltnl..............................200,000.00
Surplun and Undivided
Profltn.................................$300,000.00
Depooltn, Ovor - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
New Fraternity Directory
Fair Enough.
CustomerIs your cider good and 
hard ?"
WaitressHard, why two glasses 
would make a fellow like you lay 
down in the road aud try to pull the 
asphailt over him.
NATIONAL FRATERNITIE8 
Fraternity. House.
AcaciaG30 Clydo Street.....................................................
Beta Sigma Rho1140 Wlghtman Street.
Beta Thota PI-5549 For bos Stroot................................
Dolta Tau Dolta50G4 Forbos Stroot..,.........................
Qplta Upsilon5224 Liberty Avonuo............................
Ivrippa Sigma024 Clydo Stroot.....................................
Pi Kappa Alpha4807 Baum Boulevard-------------------
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbos Stroot. .........
Sigma Nu4921 Forbes Stroot ..............................
Thota Xi4902 Forbes Stroot ......
Tolephono No.
Sohonloy 0181) 
.SClionloy 0870
___Hu/.ol 3820
.Sclumioy 9281 
....Illland 858 
Sclumioy 0401. 
Sohonloy 9285 
.Sohonloy 0211 
. .Sohonloy 050 
.Schouloy 0143
i nmmmnmmmtmmmmmmmmttt
TEC BARBER 
SHOP
Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST. 
wmmmmttmjmmronmroitjw
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
LOCAL FRATERNITIES
Dolta Chi Rho5072 Forbes Street..............
Delta Mu5574 AylcBboro Avonuo ........................
Delta Phi Delta, Idaho Street ........................
Dolta XI254 Bellefield Avonuo ...............................
Iota Sigma DeltaWilkins and Wlghtman.,............
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson Avenue..............
Sigma Epsilon Phi5812 Bartlett Stroot...................
Woodlawn Club5814 Forves Street ....................
Schenloy 9080 
....Ila/.el 0345
Sohonloy 9102 
.....Hazel 9350 
.Schenley 0017 
....Hazel 9398- 
... .Hazel 9422Compliments
New 
Brunswick 
Records 
\ Daily
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P>. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Norfolk 
Downs, Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington.Avenue. 
"VYomens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 "West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnertli, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD. CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 'Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wal/iace, 641. Horner St.
LOS ANGELESSccrctary-Treasurer, Frederick Kindle, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shcnango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, E. M. Grctzlor, National Supply Company, 
120 Broadway, New York.
NORFOLKSecretary, J; W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegio Institute oi Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Blvd.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan, Secretary, Miss Edice Reider, 111 
New York Avenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
Philadelphia
Clan
Hopes you all from Prexy 
Down to the Plebes 
Have a wonderful summer. 
If you are in or near 
PhIlly come see us 
We want to hear all the 
News of Dear Old Tech.
Arnold Johnsons Orchestra
2411"Sweet Lovin Mama
"Kiss Me
Tivo Lilting Fox Trots
Arnold Johnsons Orchestra makes records exclusively 
for Brunswick, because like other noted dance orchestras 
they found Brunswick Records truest, clearest and most 
perfect in their interpretations. Youll like these two 
sparkling dance records. Full of bouncing rhythm and 
yielding melody. Youll want to dance to their rol
licking syncopation.
Something new every day
You can get new Brunswick Records every day.
No writing. Go to any Brunswick dealer 
and ask to have the new records played for you. 
Brunswick Records can be played on any phono
graph but they are best on The Brunswick.
J. 8. Charles, 5333 N. Carlisle St. 
P. W. Schmidt, 0111 Regent 8t.
L. E. Exline, 213 S. 47th St. 
W. P. Lippincott, Palmyra, N. J.
8CHENLEY TAILORING CO.
Under new management. La
dles and Men's Suits made to or
der. Altorlng, cleaning and press
ing,
420 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Goods cullod for and delivered.
Schenley 1538.
"Why are womens cheeks like a 
team of horses?"
"One on each side a waggln 
tongue."
