GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
TODAY 
MUSIC HALLaraigie tati
INTER-FRATERNITY BALL 
THURSDAY NIGHT
UNIVERSITY CLUB
VOL. XVIII NO. 28CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, APRIL 8. 1924
RANKING MADE 
OF FRATERNITY 
SCHOLARSHIP
PRIZES OFFERED FOR BEST
POSTERS ON CAMPUS WEEK
Sigma Epsilon Phi Wins Cup; 
Delta Mu and Acacia Run 
Close Second  Scholastic 
Standing Unusually High
---------
I Prizes have been offered which are 
open to any Art student nt Carnegie j
I Tech, for the best poster on Campus iI
' Week. There is no other restriction I 
on the subject; any phase or activ
ity o the week may be used.
! The posters must be finished and be 
in the hands of Prof. Taylor, of the 
P. & I. department not later than I 
April 22.
The prizes are as follows:
First, $10.00; second, 3.50; third, 
$2.50; next five, $1.00.
CAMPUS WEEK 
SHOW IS TO BE 
REAL THRILLER
SONG BOOK TICKETS MUST
BE REDEEMED THIS WEEK
BEST AVERAGE IS 208
At the end of every semester, a 
record is taken of the scholastic 
standing attained by the different 
fraternities on the campus. It has 
been customary for the Institute to 
award a silver cup to the organization 
receiving the largest average in the 
number of Q. Ps. earned at the end 
of the semester.
The fraternity which receives the 
cup for three consecutive semesters 
out of five, becomes the permanent 
owner of the award.
Last semester was the third con
secutive one for which the Beta Theta 
Pis had held the cup. At that tim,
[ it became theirs permanently, and thi'i 
year a new cup has been purchased,
| of which Sigma Epsilon Phi will be 
the first guardian.
Sigma Epsilon Phi comes to the 
front with an average of 208 quality 
' points per man, with Delta Mu and 
Acacia following close behind, the forI mer averaging 203 Q. Ps., and the 
latter 196.
The remainder of the fraternities 
hfeld the following places: (4) Beta
Sigma Rho, 195; (5). Delta Phi Delta, 
192; (G) Alpha Tau Omega, 191; (7) 
Beta Theta Pi, 188; (8) S'igma Alpha 
Epsilon, 187; (9) Woodlawn Club, 
187; (10) Delta Chi Rho, 185; (11) 
Delta Tau Delta, 18J; (12) Sigma Nu. 
177; (13) Delta Upsilon, 170; (14) 
Kappa Sigma Rho, 170; (15) Kappa 
Sigma, 170; (16) Iota Sigma Delta, 
162; (17) Theta Xi, 160; (18) Pi Kap
pa Alpha, 157.
There are five fraternities which 
should be given special distinction for 
having at least one man in them who 
received from 363 to 402 quality 
points. Pi Kappa Alpha, although low 
in the general average boasts first 
place in this rank; second and third 
places, Alpha Tau Omega; fourth 
place, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; and fifth 
place, Acacia.
Collegiate Imps to 
Play at Senior Ball
Preliminary Tickets Should 
be Bought at Once
A great treat is in store for those 
who attend the Senior Ball this year. 
The Collegiate Imps have been signed 
up to furnish the music. They will 
sound forth with eleven pieces that 
night and it will be high class synco
pation. Every Senior on the campus 
has heard them at least several times 
and knows that they are well ac
quainted with their oil when it comes 
to music.
The preliminary tickets are not go
ing as fast as they should and the 
committee needs the money. Many 
of the Seniors have expressed their 
intentions of going. Dig down and 
get the prelims. The ball will be 
your last big social function as a class 
and it needs the support of every man 
in the class. Get your prelim from 
any of the Engineering or Industries 
section leaders and from Couse and 
Sonneman in Arts School.
The ball will be held two nights af
ter the vacation ends so that you had 
better make the date before you leave. 
The girls are very popular, you know, 
so if you wait until after the holidays 
you will probably be out of luck.
Dont forget Obie Newmans enter
tainment, Collegiate Imps, University 
Club, April 24, from 9:00 to 1:00.
The Alumni are especially invited 
to attend the ball this year. This is 
one of the many ways that you can 
keep in touch with your Alma Mater.. 
Only Seniors and Alumni are entitled 
to attend this year which will limit 
the crowd to within reasonable limits. 
The ball will be formal and the price 
is three dollars.
INTERFRATERNITY 
BALL THURS. NITE
New University Club Will be 
Scene of Easter Prom 
Dance from 9-2
Thursday night is the date of the 
third annual inter-fraternity formal 
to be held in the ball room of the 
new University Club. This is the 
only all-fraternity function of the 
year and promises to be one of the 
best Tech dances. The number is 
limited to two hundred couples and 
the tickets are distributed among the 
several fraternities proportional to 
their number of members.
Since this is the last Tech affair 
befor the Easter holidays, every ef
fort is being made to make it a suc
cess.
Eddie Barrets "Old Gold and Blue 
IS piece orchestra, from Morgantown, 
will furnish music and entertainment. 
Fussy Knight of Mason-Dixon fame, 
plays the traps and adds much in the 
form of songs and versatile acting.
The decorations will not include the 
habitual streamers, but will consist of 
a unique lighting effect, varied during 
the evening in keeping with the spirit 
of the music.
A buffet luncheon will be served at 
11:30, at which time favors will be 
drawn., These will range from very 
elaborate, and expensive novelties, to 
the ordinary favor type, and will be 
distributed by a chance drawing.
The lists of guests includes such 
prominent names as President Baker, 
Directors Morris, McGoodwin, Mote 
and Breed, Dean Brown, and Dean 
Tarbell.
Tlie assessment will be $5.00 and 
there is no chance of a crowded floor, 
because the couples are limited to two 
hundred. Dancing will continue from 
nine until two, interrupted only by 
the luncheon at 11:30.
SENIORS TO TIP HATS 
TO PRESIDENT BAKER
At the Student Council meeting 
last Wednesday night a resolution was 
passed approving the action of. the 
Senior classes in adopting the cus
tom of showing respect to the Presi
dent of Carnegio Tech by lifting tho 
hat and recommending that the other 
classes of the institution adopt tho 
same custom. This is a very appro
priate custom for the student body to. 
follow and should have been institut
ed years ago. No better method of 
showing that respect which wo all 
hold for our President could be fol
lowed.
Student general nomination for all 
class officers will be held on April 22, 
which is the first day of classes after 
the Easter vacation. Nominations 
will take place in divisional assem
blies. The elections will be held one 
week later.
Election for the candidates for 
President of the Student Council are 
to be completed by tomorrow night. 
The first election will be held today 
and if no candidate receives a major
ity vote the two highest will be voted 
upon tomorrow. The President will 
be elected soon after the holidays.
The Student Council created a per
manent Song Book Committee at the 
meeting naming A. S. Andrews, Chair
man, F. D. Rossini, Treasurer and Es
telle Garibaldi, Secretary. A second 
edition of one thousand copies has 
been ordered and this committee is 
to have direct charge of the disposi
tion of them. Hereafter the Carnegie 
Song Book will be permanently on 
sale on the Campus for the students 
and alumni.
Entertainment Galore at Combined
Musical Clubs Concert and Dance
Think o it. Mens Glee Club 
Women's Glee Club, Mandolin Club, 
Stringers and a formal dance all in 
one evening and for one admission. 
This has the Davis backed off the 
map/ Each of the Carnegie Musical 
Clubs has enjoyed its premier year 
during the 1923-1924 season. The 
clubs are now conducting their final 
rehearsals in order to present be
fore Carnegie students their supreme 
concert of the year.
The program to be presented on 
May 2 will be. composed of the pick 
of tho programs of the four clubs 
represented. Only those numbers 
which have most pleased the audi
ences of Pittsburgh and other cities 
will be selected. Those numbers 
which do not come up to the Home 
Concert standard have been elim
inated. Thus the students of Car
negie will hear only the best and j 
most pleasing of a great many better-than-ordinary-numbers of jazz, 
popular and classic instrumental 
numbers;
The directors of the clubs, Messrs 
Riehl and Kovach, have decided to 
present the program in two parts. 
The first half will consist entirely 
of special numbers. An innovation 
will be introduced in the presenta
tion of the first half of the concert 
in that each club will present a 
group of numbers at one time. Be
sides being more pleasing for the 
audience in that it will eliminate 
much of the .flurry and bustle caused 
by appearance of the different 
clubs, this pljin will also cut the 
time for the concert so that more 
time can be devoted to the strains 
of the Collsgiate Imps at the dance 
after the concert.
Manager Broudy of the Mens Mu
sical Clubs and Miss Issel of the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The Blue Bandana, Written 
by Mr. Hubert Osborne of 
the Drama Dept. Replete 
With Fun and Mystery
TWO PERFORMANCES
The Blue Bandana gang has left 
its mark on the Carnegie Campus; 
not, as you may expect, in the form 
of inspiration, and the means of mak
ing a name for the Campus Week 
play.
The Blue Bandana, the .Campus 
Week show, is to be produced on 
Broadway next fall, giving Carnegie 
students and alumni the first oppor
tunity to see this play, a varitable 
first nighter, role. The story can
not be divulged as yet, but it is as
sured that the audience will be 
thrilled to the point of hanging on 
to the seats with both hands and at 
the same time following the line of 
Milton with laughter holding both 
his sides. The cast has not been 
definitely decided upon, but there 
will be three comedy parts of the 
low type, and the rest of the char
acters will be in keeping with their 
tasks .of making the play interest
ing.
Mr. T-Iuberb Osborne, one of the 
staff in the Drama Department, has 
written the show, and it is to be of 
local interest, full of fun, full of pep, 
and full of mystery. The work of 
Mr. Osborne is well known to the 
students of Carnegie Tech, who will 
recall that only last year he adapted 
Julian Streets noved, Rita Coven
try for the stage. This play was 
produced at the Little Theater, and 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Issue Program for 
Campus Week Events
Plenty of Entertainment to be 
Offered
Campus Week once more approach
es bn the wings of time. Before most 
of the students realize it, the annual 
festival will be upon them. The men
tion Campus Week always brings a 
throb of joy to the student and it is 
time to realize that it is only about 
one month away.
The events this year will bo the 
best and most novel ever presented on 
the campus. A glance over the ten
tative program will assure the stu
dents and. the Alumni that they'are 
going to havo the time of their lives 
Here it is:
Thursday, May 15.
10:00 a. m.Vaudeville Show.
1:00 p. m.Qualification and Call.
2:00 p. m.Kaper of the Kilties.
Interfraternity relays.
Coronation of the Campus Week 
Queen.
8:15 p. m.Show.
Friday, May .16
10:00 a. m.Tennis MatchGirls.
New Idea.
12:00 m.Lunch on the Campus.
1:00 p. m.Tennis matchPittTech.
Baseball gameSt. BonaventureTech.
Track meetPitt-Tech (Freshmen 
and Varsity).
9:00 p. m.Mardi Gras.
Saturday, May 17.
9:00 a. m.Girls Sweepstakes.
10:00 a. m.Interfraternity S'weepsiake.s.
12:00 m.Alumni luncheon.
1:00 p. m.Volley BallGirls.
Baseball GamesGirls.
2:00 p. m.Tennis MatchAlumni.
Baseball GameAlumni.
6:00 p. m.Girls Banquet.
8:15 p. m.Show.
Dance.
ALPHA TAU ELECTS AT 
INDUSTRIES SMOKER
Last Tuesday night the first annual 
Industries smoker was held in the 
Carnegie Union.
At this time, the semi-annual Alpha 
Tau elections were announced. Those 
thus honored were:
Seniors:
Jeffery
Breckenridge 
Everett 
Schell 
Juniors:
Stiles
Cramp
Tabor
Andrews
Sophomore:
Rowley.
These men will be'initiated some
time shortly after the Easter recess.
The smoker was a great success 
and serves as a high mark for the 
smokers of the following years to 
shoot at.
The various class stunts went off in 
fine style and showed the results of 
much preparation on the part of the 
participants. The Junior stunt, how(Continued on Page Three.)
One hundred Song Books havo not 
yet been redeemed by those holding 
Song Book tickets.
These tickets must be turned in 
for books before the Easter vaca
tion begins else the tickets cannot 
be redeemed for books until the lat
ter part of May.
The cards may be- redeemed for 
Song Books any day this week from 
11:30 to 1:30 at The Tartan Office. 
Room 5. in the Industries Building. 
There will be some distribution of 
books on Wednesday >10011 in the va
rious colleges.
C. W. DECORATIONS 
ARE FUTURISTIQUE
Entirely New Idea Wi 1 be 
Followed in Decking Out 
Campus This Year
Campus Week is nearly here? Can 
you realize it? It seems only a week 
or so since we were worrying over the 
first semester exams, and now wo 
have Easter vacation, and then Cam
pus Week! It doesnt seem possible, 
but it is so, nevertheless. Consult tho 
Calendar and prove it to yourself.
Plans for tho decorations to bo 
used on the all Important occasion 
are nearly completed, and they are 
all, and more than all, that anyone 
could expect. To begin with, all the 
decorations are to be followed out in 
the Futurist style, which stylo will 
permit of many unusual designs and 
features.
Let us try to imagine the campus as 
it will look on the 15th, 16th and 17th 
of May after the committee has trans
formed it into a place of beauty. 
Poles, about twenty feet in height, 
crested with long colored streamers, 
will bp placed hero and there about 
the campus, along tho cut, etc. These 
poles will be lighted nt night.
Six foot lamps, futArosquc in de
sign, will add to tlio picturesquenoss 
and the gala-day appearance from 
their place In tho niches along tho 
Troi^t of Arts Building.
In Langley Lab a great canopy 
about ten feet broad will bo erected, 
and in tho center of the room a manycolored cono about fifteen feet in 
diameter at the base, will bo built 
around the center polo of the build
ing. This cone will bo lighted by 
spot lights from tho other two posts, 
and in all probability tho orchestra 
will be stationed under it.
As a good story writer always leavos 
his greatest climax to tho end, thus 
keeping up the suspense, so Is the 
choicest bit of this story loft for the 
last. Tho main attraction o the docorn Lions in tho new gym will be a 
great ball made up entirely of email 
mirrors. Spot lights will bo focussod 
on this, nnd just imagine tho color ef
fect which will bo produced. Myriads 
of lights in rainbow hues will danco 
here and there mnking tho wholo 
room seem like &cme fairy palace 
which lias miraculously become largo 
enough to admit oE the ontranco of 
mortals. > (i H
With such decorations to luro ono, 
who would wish to stay away.
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Are there too many social activi
ties on the campus, Loo many week
end dances, etc?
This question has raised a great 
deal of discussion, but it is significant 
to note that nearly everyone is of 
the opinion that there are entirely 
too many small dances around the 
campus. There are so many week
end dances (for a while there were 
on an average of two every week in 
the Union), that a school dance has 
degenerated into the state where it 
doesnt mean anything to most stu 
dents.  What do you think about it, 
and the solutions offered below?
Esther Smith, Maggie Murph Soph, 
says:
I think that every-week dandes 
become tiresome, that they have be
come tiresome, and that is why they 
are not supported better. It would 
improve matters greatly if the ath
letic and club dances were limited to 
two a month, these to be held in 
Langley Lab and the Union perhaps, 
and lasting from 9 till 1 oclock on 
Friday evenings."
Don Gardner, Junior Engineer, 
says:
There really are too many little 
affairs around the campus, and that is 
why the crowds frequently drag. If 
they were fewer, they would be some
thing to look forward too. I also 
think the big formals should bo so 
regulated that they would come .about 
every month, starting with tho month 
of November.
Speaking of that last statement, 
there aro ten formal dances for this 
year, so Dons sLunt could ho carried 
out by doubling up on two months.
Isabelle Johnson, another Maggie 
Murph, says:
I think tho social comrnltteo 
should arrange for not more than two 
of tho regular week-end dances per 
month, in place o the numerous af
fairs now taking place.. The hours 
should be from 9 till 1, and the even
ing Friday. The lack of enthusiasm 
now prevalent would be abolished by 
this method, I am positive.
Frank Trembly, Senior Engineer, 
(Continued on Page Four)
CAMPUS QUEEN 
PRIMARIES TO 
BE HELD TODAY
Girls Will Collect Ballots in 
Each College on Tuesday, 
Wednesday and Thursday 
Noons
NO BALLOT STUFFING
And now the day lias como at last! 
Verily> 'tls the day on which tlio 
first ballots for our Queen of Campus 
Week for 1924 shall bo cast. At 
noon today, two girls will appear in 
Margaret >. Morrison, College of Fine 
Arts, College of Engineering and Col
lege of Industries, and prepare the 
sceno for voting. These girls will 
bo armed with lists of all tho stu
dents registered in each college; and 
as the men and girls vote, their 
names will be checked off. 6n Wed
nesday and Thursday noon the same 
maids will reappear in tho four col
leges, and by Thursday, tho result 
oxpected is a choice of the fifteen 
foremost fair ones at Carnegie. \ ,
After these fifteen girls liavo boon 
chosen, things' will bo quiet over 
Easter vacation, but immediately fol
lowing vacation there will bo another 
election at which tho three most 
beautiful of tlio^ fifteen shall be 
chosen. This famous trio will havo 
their charming selves introduced into 
tho movies and into tho downtown 
papers, and ono of them will event
ually evolve Into tlio Campus Quoon.
In caso tlio men do not know the 
names of Senior girls, lioro they wo: 
Margaret MorrisonMiriam Bond, 
Adah Borgerdlng, Annu Brennan, Sara 
Creighton, Faye Glass, Nolle Hambioton, Emma Bello Hauch, Gmco 
Ilorshborgur, Grotchon IhhoI, Miriam 
(Continued on Pago Four)
Alpha Tau Offers Two 
Cups for Campus Week
Regulations for Sweepstakes 
Race Are Completed
V. W. C. A. WILL SEND TWO
DELEGATES TO NATL. CONV.
The Carnegie Y. W. C. A. is send
ing two representatives, Esther John
son, a Junior and Virginia Pope, a 
Senior, to attend the National Con
vention of the Y. W. C. A. in New 
York City. Tho convention will have 
representatives from a large number 
of colleges in the United States and 
from the industries.
At the regular mooting of ilio Y.-.W. 
C. A. in the M. M. Recreation liall, to
morrow at 12:20, Miss Holm, who was 
formerly connected with an organiza
tion that handled immigration prob
lems, will give a talk on immigration.
THIRTY ODD PLEBES 
ADMITTED TO CLAN
Plebes Designing MostUnique 
Fool's Day Costumes Are 
Exempted
The inter-fraternity swoopslakea 
will bo this Campus Woolc on Satur
day morning, May 17, at 10 a. m. The 
girls sweopstalcos will procodo It at 
9:00 a. m. Tho HwoopHtalcos ovonts 
havo boon changed from Friday morn
ing to Saturday morning alnco Cam* 
pus Wook will donoto Saturday as 
Alumnl Day. In this way, ovoryoue 
will havo an opportunity to sop tho 
exciting event of tlio throo-day colobrat I on.
Tho Alpha Tail honorary fratnrnlty 
has offered two handsome loving cups 
of silver as prizes for tho swoepstakos. Tho fraternity has decided to 
award tho cupa for tho spoodlost car 
and for tho best deolgnod car.
The cups for tho car displaying the 
most originality in design will bo 
given before tho raco start while tlio 
cup for the car with tho groatosl; 
speed will bo presented after tho raco 
has shown that cars mottlo.
In the past, the sweopstako races 
have used tho Hut Library as tlieir 
starting point, but owing to some un
desirable conditions attached to this 
method, Central Office Building will 
be used as the starting location. The 
opinion among committee members is 
that this change will be a distinct ad
vantage to the racers and that the 
cars will have a chance to get even
ly distributed before starting up tlie 
Tech hill.
A few points should be kept in mind 
regarding the event. The car must 
weigh* 60 pounds and have four 
wheels. No freaks, such as ships, 
fish or cigars will be considered for 
design nor will they be permitted to 
enter the race.
The complete set of rules and reg
ulations appear on page 2.
MENS INTER-DORMITORY 
DANCE TO BE APRIL 26
The evening of Saturday, April 26, 
promises to enfold a very pleasant 
party in the form of the mens annual 
inter-dormitory dance. The commit
tee headed by Dave Garber have been 
planning the affair for some time, and 
have arranged for some very clever 
and novel features of entertainment.
Something different from tho usual 
type of Union dances will be the pres
entation of favors to all ladies in at
tendance. Also that inevitable thirst 
that usually arises about 10:30 can 
bo Immediately quenched with tho ab
solution of several draughts of Ico 
cold punch of tho kind that mother 
used to make, so, as you seo, nothing 
has boon forgotten by tho committoo 
Jn thoir efforts to make this a very 
successful affair.
Tho best part of! tho program and 
that which interests us most is tho 
assessment but here thero Is no noed 
for worry as it Is but ono shokle and 
a half. Tickets can be obtained from 
tho presidents of the various dorms 
or any of tho following committoo: 
Dave Garber and Duncan 'Doig.
Dont forget the date, Saturday, 
April 26, immediately following Eas
ter vacation.
In years gone by it had been cus
tomary at Tech1 to hold a Poverty Day 
celebration for tho Plolios. In some 
cases tlio day proved disastrous. Pneu
monia from exposure, owing to a scar
city of old clothes, developed. Al
though many unique costumes were 
devised, tho resulting harm to indi
viduals could not bo overlooked.
Somo "hawk digging down into the 
history of heathenish cults, conceived 
that tho Plobes could not bo harmed 
by taking part in tho festival of All 
Fools Day.
A stranger on tlio campus at tlio 
time oE tho event wrinkled his brow 
wondering if he was in Mars or D.ixmont. Ho was advisod that It was 
only our Plobes, each trying Ills host 
to prove hlmsolf tlio blggost "gowk 
and to produce such a dogroo oE joy
ous mirth in tho spectators that would 
free him from regulations.
Science school can boast of a scan
dal rivaling that at Washington.
Caught in tho Act, appoarod only 
onco upon tho stage. The judgos woro 
convinced that tho act was tlioro 
with tho chomlcals,
Romoo made lovo to Juliet more 
passionately than tho author lhtonded.
A Spoar Mint Man tossod gum to 
Ills spectators and so touched Lliolr 
ticklish spots that a riot was only 
avortod by a shortage of tho saliva 
produoor.
From the Arts building camo an 
S. O. S.; Spark Plug was fast, losing 
to tho Radio Girls. Barney could not 
bo found, and his Brown oyod baby" 
lost by a. nose.
Whores that towol, orlod the pro* 
(Continued on Pago TWO.)
H. S. DENNISON 
AND TAU BETA PI 
ELECTION TODAY
Make Program of General 
Assembly at Music Hall 
This Noon, One of Most 
Interesting of Season
QUARTET WILL SING
Henry S. Dennison, President of 
tho Dennison Manuacturing Company 
in Framingham, Mass., has accepted 
an invitation from President Baker 
to speak at general assembly in the 
Music Hall, today.
Mr. Douuison is widely known in 
this country because of his success 
in establishing model welfare meas
ures in tho Dennison plants, and be
cause of his much-dlscussod policies 
in connection with profit-sharing 
among his employes. He is a grad
uate of Harvard, has been president 
of tho Dennison Company since 1917, 
and during the World War, he served 
as assistant director of the Central 
Bureau' of Planning and Statistics in 
Washington.
Announcement of tho elections for 
Tau Beta Pi, national engineering 
honorary fraternity will bo made at 
tho assembly. Tho elections woro 
not ready for announcoment at tho 
Science stag, so, for tho first Unity 
tho honorary eloctlons will bo mado 
public at. general assombly.
An attractive program has boon 
arranged. Tho students oE tho Dra
ma Departmont will present a oneact comedy which Is rumored to bo 
very amusing. Tho quartet o'C tlio 
Carnegio Mens Glee Club will sing 
several selections.
Sinco spring has at last arrived, 
tho promenade to and from tho Mu
sic Hall should bo very onjoyablo.
Tho custom ro-ostabllsliod at tho 
last assembly of having the Plebos 
march In a body will bo followed out.
This will bo the last assombly bol'oro Easter vacation, The on tiro 
studont body should flock to tho 
Musi'; Hall to. hoar Mr. Dennison to 
enjoy the program, and to (make tho 
assembly an excellent one.
SIXTEEN GRAPHIKERS TO 
TAKE INSPECTION TRIP
Six to on Graphlca mombors will 
leave tomorrow night for Washing
ton, D, C., tho first stop on the In
spection tour which will take them 
through six eastern cities and a groat 
many of tho country's large printing 
plants. Tho trip will last until a 
week from Saturday.
In Washington tho printers will sei.' 
the United 9'tatos Bureau ol! Engrav
ing and Printing and tho Government 
Printing Office Under the guidance o 
tlio Typothotno of Washington. Phil
adelphia, is tho noxt stop and tho 
Lausten Monotype Company, and tho 
Philadelphia Public Ledger will bo 
visited. At, Now York tho Graphlckers will soa the American Type Foun
ders Company, the Doubloday Pago & 
Co., Sinclair and Valentino Company, 
and the Zeeso-Wilklnson Co. From 
New York the tourists will go to Now 
London, Conn., and visit tho Babcock 
Printing Press Manufacturing Com
pany, and then to Boston to see the 
Merrymount Press. Tho tour will end 
in Springfield at tho Strathmore Pa
per Company.
The money earned through the 
Christmas Card campaign last fall is 
enough to pay the carfare of the fif
teen men who are going on the trip. 
Graphica members who will go are:
E. F. Barvoets, G. H. Carl, M. A. Dono
hue, L. I-Iable, N. C. Hornung, W. K. 
Jeffrey, R. B. Keller, S. Lebovitz, N. 
P. Mitchell, F. T. Phelps, F. E. Pow
ers, E. L. Smith, J. F. Smaney, E. U. 
Sowers, 2nd, M. L. Swartz and F. T. 
Travis.
Last Thursday evening a Graphica 
banquet was held in the Margaret 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Campus Week Plans 
Feature Innovations
New Events Are Expected 
to Prove Popular
Plans for Campus Week, May 11>, 
1(1 and :l.7 forecast some Innovations. 
Tho men In charge will not allow 
more than a few general hints to be 
published, however. Tlioro Is fear 
that, If detailed doacrlptlon of tho 
events Is given, tho Ideas will bo 
appropriated by other Institutions 
and tho tang of uniqueness will bt\ 
lost.
Friday morning Is ono of tlio 
period which will be filled by diver
sions entirely now. The scene of 
activity, recreation, and amusement, 
will bo tho athletic Hold. A largo, 
corps of woll-tralnod entertainers, 
will bo tlioro to take charge of tho. 
assembled crowd and lead them, 
through a series of surprises as. 
plciisaut as they aro novol,
Spectators will probably bo aBked 
to appear in costume in order to 
give the occasion its true flavor. This 
request, if mado, will afford tho 
Mill'd I Gras habiliments a double op
portunity to create sensation and 
mirth. Some of tho committeo feel 
that people who look foolish act so, 
and for that reason they favor cos
tumes for Friday morning.
Exact delineation of tho program 
Is prohibited. It is a foregone con
clusion, however, that the events will, 
be warmly welcomed and completely 
enjoyed. The scheme for the morn
ing ensures variety nnd specifically 
eliminates the tediousness which' 
sometimes deadens group affairs.
Sam Dyke is to head a band of in(Continued on Page Four.)
Campus Weeks Brand New Features 
Relieve Us From Grouchy Teachers
Every year it is traditional that 
spring roll around long about April 
21, that young men begin to got 
goofy Ideas, that tho track team 
cavort around in thoir old B. V. D.s, 
and that CAMPUS WEEK arrive in 
all Its splendor.
Last year everything was fixed up 
great, Tho Ingenious plumbers from 
tho Industries 'College no sooner gor. 
wise to tho fact that Campus Week 
was In tho offing than they ran 
down to Dlnty Moores old establish
ment, tunneled under it, and piped 
tho succulent nourishment right tip 
hero on tho campus. Everything was 
Jake until ono of tho old timers at
tached his lungs to tho business end 
of the apparatus and whoof- the 
works wore blooiefor no liquid, regardleas of! Its strength, could fill a 
vaecuum like, that.
This year we can't say a word 
about the liquor question. But we
do know the rest of the dope. There/'s 
to bo plenty of dances and shows 
and track' meets and ball games nnd 
sweepstakes.
Tho one big featurewe moan ono 
oE tlio big featuresis a rolling, 
rollicking comedy which Is to bo 
staged by the drama department. 
WoIl try to glvo a synopsis oE the 
thing but wo dont guarantee that 
It will appear In this form. In fact, 
v/o havo our hopes that It wont.
This ono Is a tragedy In throo 
flats. It wasn't written In all three 
,but wo havo to put them all In for 
at mosphero. On he first floor wo 
havo a young married couple just 
back from their honoymoon. When 
the sceno opens the young wife io 
sitting on her hpusbands kneo ask
ing him for a ur coat and a road
ster. "Mrs. Smith right upstairs is 
going to get one and her, hpsband 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CAR-NEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 8, 1924
Published every week by undergraduates o the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council. ________ ________
Entered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh us second-class matter.____________
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
II. P. SIMPSON ..................................................................................Hchenloy 914..
BUSINESS MANAGICJl 
.T. C. MAJOR.............................................................................................Hllund <1011-1
KENNETH ARNOLD.......................................Schenley 9189Managing Editor
FRED C. SMITH...........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS......................................................Assistant Managing Editor
ASSOCIATE EDITORS ,
SARA MAIO EVERETT.........................................................................Schenley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES
H. II. WILSON ______________________________________________________
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING .................................................................................. . Schon ey 9070
P. I). ROSSINI....................................................................................... Schenley 070
A. E. KROGH.................... .....................................Schenley 9070Alumni Editor
E. O. FRAZIER......................................................Schenley 0143Athletic Editor
K. W. SUSATH .................................................................................... Ihotogriphur
W. K.  ..................................................................................ISxcliango I';' tor
B. I>. COUSE, .lit...................................................................................' MrDON (ARONI5K ................................................................................ Spocllil Writer
T .1 DEMPSEY..........................................................................Circulation Manager
W. 'M. GIBSON.................Scbenley 9211Advertising Manager
B. BROUDY................................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Entello Garibaldi Almoo Pliaro J. M. QoflB
Wlliim Stlnor N. C. WoBer F. M. McClelland
Carl Folglit v. B. Smltb M. W. Gay
Mai unrot McFall L- H. JIurrlB o. A. LundqulBt
Rosemary McCambrldgo E. G. Johnson ,Lepper
Nora Willetts K. Fulmer N;fc? i
J. A. ( Foller______________________A. P. Carson_________________M. MoIllnBhead
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Holen Corrao G. E. Jacoby J. Christoff J. F. Harris E. C. Plummer
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moslcovitz, J. W. Metro, R, L. Sandroclc, A. Grodner, L. .Barbrow, A. 
Perreton, Lee C. Osborn, E. L. Reeves, J. M. Ali'good, N. Alexander, J. L. 
Buerle, J. P. Strlzak.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will be withhold If desired. All news items must bo in the student 
post olllco before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OfllceRoom G-A, Industries Building. Olllce hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20.
5 C W
Campus "Week is coining.
Five years ago Carnegie Tech celebrated hot .first Campus Week.
Twas a crude beginning, but a beginning nevertheless. Since 
that time there have been three other like celebrations, and now, the 
fifth Annual Campus Week is close at hand.
The committee lias been working for almost a month, and from 
all. reports, have formulated - plans for a grand and glorious time, 
when students, faculty, alumni and administration will frolic to
gether just as iJ! they had always been the best of friends.
There is no need of going into details about the program. Fact 
is, we couldnt il! we wanted to for the simple fact that we dont 
know any more than is being printed in this issue ol! the Carnegie 
Tartan. We think the committee is holding-out on us, and kinder 
keeping a lew things under their hats for future publicity. They say 
tis good publicity to keep one guessing. Maybe-theyre right, but 
were doubtful.
But, weve hoard enough to convince us that a live time, is in 
store for all when Campus Week rolls around on May 15, 16 and 17.
All of which reminds us, Campus Week is a gift of the student 
body to its alumni. It is three days set aside in the spring-time of 
'the year, when examinations are staring us full in the face and the 
full moon shines over Schenley Park every night, for a grand and 
glorious entertainment ol' the alumni. During tliose few precious 
days, books are forgotten, and good times reign.supreme.
It is necessary for an honoroo to lie present at a party before that 
party can bo termed a suceoss. Alumni are the honoroos during Cam
pus Week. IJso your own judgment, Mr., Mrs. and Miss Alumni!
So, Dear Alumni, The Carnegie Tartan wish os to extend to you a 
heart-l'ell; invitation to return to the campus for Campus Woek, and 
join witli us in the good times in store.
As weve said beforeCampus 'Week is yours.
Use i I; I
SCALP AND BLADE TO. 
'GIVE BASKETBALL CUP
The Scalp and Blade fraternity, na
tional organization for men of Buf
falo will again award a loving cup to 
the tv/Inner of -the Inter-fraternltyDormltory basket ball championship.
The cup will be presented to two 
representatives of the winner at a 
semi-monthly meeting of the frater
nity.
At the present time, the cup is be
ing roflnlshed at a local jewelry storo 
and will be on exhibition in the win
dow of Doan Brown's office within a 
short lime.
This will make the third year the 
cup has been awarded, Iota Sigma 
Delta having won It In 1922, and Sig
ma Nu In 1923. The cup becomes the 
permanent possession of the frater
nity or dormitory winning the cham
pionship three consecutive years.
Cosmopolitan Club Holds 
Easter Dance Thursday
New BooksI VIEWS OF COUNCIL 
i NOMINEES STATED
THE PLASTIC AGE
A program essentially Roumanian 
In character and an Easter Dance 
will be the features of the evening 
when Thursday at eight fifteen 
o'clock the Cosmopolitan Club meets 
In the Union in Central Building. The 
program will include a talk on Roumanla by Dr. Clark of New York and 
musical numbers both vocal and in
strumental typical of the Roumanian 
spirit.
Refreshments will bo served and j 
the Carnegie Tartans will furnish music for dancing.
This is the -first time that the club 
has held any of its meetings on Car
negies Campus. A very large num
ber of people are expected to attend 
and the affair will probably be the 
biggest one conducted by members of 
the club this year. Everyone is wel
come. 
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW IS
TO BE REAL THRILLER
By Percy Marks. (The Century Co.,
New York and London.)
'Have you read. "The Plastic Age? 
Of course! Every collegiate group 
In America has read it. One has to, 
thats all; Its being done! To be 
Bure, Its not much of a story. One 
keeps waiting for something to hap
pen from cover to cover. One is 
deucedly disappointed in it, but one 
reads It and recommends it just the 
same.
The character delineation Is weak. 
The plotwell, there is none. The 
Incidents -may be typical of college 
life, and some of them are almost 
interesting, but to what do they lead? 
The book is certainly fiat, although 
it Is not dull.
The Plastic Age is saved from 
the utterly commonplace by a few 
interesting question it raises and 
by the fact that its author is a pro
fessor in a prominent college. 'Stu
dents are always interested In that 
part of their instructors personality 
which is left outside the class room.
Is a college education worth while? 
Is the double standard of morality 
about to disappear-among the youth 
of the land? Most readers admit 
the importance, or at least the in
terest, of these problems and are 
willing to grant ''them a 'place in 
typical collegemen talk, but most 
readers also are disappointed with 
the treatment given them in this 
book.
The Plastic Age is not a pretty 
book, we know; we very much doubt, 
if it is a worthy book; but were not 
at all sorry to have read it.
Candidates Agree That Pres
ent Point System is Un
satisfactory
WILLIAM PFOU * S
THIRTY ODD PLEBES
ADMITTED TO CLAN
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESI)A,Y, A l. IM IJ 8 
(ouoinl Assembly 11 30 A. M,, Music Hall
Nominations- Campus Woolc Queen.........................................All Colleges
TIUJKSDAY, AIMMb Id 
Inter-Fraternity Formal. !):00 P. M., University Club
SATURDAY, AI MM L .12
IBiister Vacation Begins.....................................................................12:00 Noon
T11 USD AY, APRIL 22
Olas es Besuine................................................................................... 8:30 A .\i
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2:t
Richard HI..................................................8:15 P. M., Arts Theater
THURSDAY, APRIL 24
Founders Day................................................................Classes As Usual
Richard III..................................................8:15 P. M., Arts Theater
FRIDAY, APRIL 25
Annual Exhibition...................................7:30-.10:30 P. M., All Colleges
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, MAY 15, 16, 17 
CAMPUS WEEK.................................................................All Carnegie
R. G. SMITHv BUILDING CON
STRUCTION, DIES SUDDENLY
Robert Gilmore Smith of Orange, 
Mass., Sophomore Building Construc
tion, was called unexpectedly by 
death last Tuesday, April 1. His 
death was quite sudden, being due 
to blood stream infection. He had 
been in the hospital for diphtheria, 
and released as well and was at
tending school, apparently in perfect 
health. He died in the Sigma Nu 
fraternity house where he made his 
home in Pittsburgh.
Uokard Bowman accompanied the 
body to Orange and was one of the 
pallbearers at the funeral held last 
Saturday.
 Bob Smith, as ho was generally 
known around Carnegie Tech, was a 
very popular student., being aotlvoly 
intorest.od In both colloge and fra
ternity affairs. He was a candidate 
for baseball, and one of the star 
players on the Sigma Nu basket; ball 
team.
Carnegie baa lost a loyal student,
and Sigma Nu has lost a good fra
ternity man, and the student body 
aa active and interested student, and 
we all, u good friend.
ENTERTAINMENT GALORE 
AT COMBINED MUSICAL 
CLUBS CONCERT AND DANCE
(Continued From Page One.) 
Womens Musical Clubs are working 
on several novelty features for the 
specialty numbers of the concert: Be
sides the regular soloists of the 
Mens Glee and Mandolin Clubs there 
will be several extremely novel and 
pleasing features for this part of 
the program.
Owing to the clamor of the upper 
classmen in general and the Seniors 
In particular the managers have de
cided to make the dance after the 
affair a formal one. The mere fact 
that a dance is formal gives it a 
standing and distinction not attained 
by any other colloge affair. Only 
those in formal attire will bo allowed 
to attend the danoo. However, it 
will not bo necessary to bo in .for
mal ul,tiro to attend (ho Home Con
cert. There are plenty of seats to 
tit, the prloo of any purse. Announcemeat; as to price will bo made in 
the next issue of The Ta&'tnn.
PRELIMINARY BALLOT
Election of Queen of Campus Week
CARNEGIE TECH 1924
When this ballot is cut out aud properly filled in, it 
sliall count- as one vote for Miss..............................
(Continued From Pago One.*) 
then went to Now York. A scenario 
adaipted from that story and put on 
the screen under the caption Dont 
Call It , Love, is well known to 
most movie fans. Another of Mr. 
Osbornes popular successes is 
"Shore Leave, which many will re
member from a few seasons past.
The play may bo called a travesty 
that Is, the play is one which might 
correspond to the moiodramaer as 
portrayed in the old county road 
shows. This particular one is a com
edy molodralmn, and it is customary 
In such a playi to liavo a vllllnn, a 
hero and a heroine. These three 
aro comedy types, and the rest of I 
the* cast might bo snhl to be legiti
mate,'' The play is a splendid com-1 
blnntlon of all of the good qualities) 
of some of the Broadway successes,) 
bolng endowed with the typo of 
mystery in The Bat, and ,pt the 
same time bolng eompnrablo to The 
Cat and the Canary. There is a 
likeness to tho well known play, 
Plays and 1*1 ay Writers/*
With rogard to tho performances, 
two managers havo boon chosen to 
arrange for tho two evenings. The 
Thursday night show, wnlcli Is Student Night, will bo under tho clmrgo 
of Rus 'Clemen!;, and he has not 
made public his plans. Rus bolives they will be bettor than tiloso 
of .Too Majors, who bi running the 
A.lumnl Night perfornianoe, Saturday 
evnnlug. .Too says that the Alumni 
will be 'applied with all the tickets 
they want. If they will write to G. 
L, TUbroolc, at the Alumni Office, and 
send him ai check covering tho 
amount. The entire lower Iloor hao 
been resorved for them.
Prior to the time we go to press 
Mr. Osborne had not made any state
ment about tho play other than tho 
name and tho type of show, but It 
is hoped that by tho next issue 
more nows may bo available.
j (Continued From Page One.) 
prietor of Hotel Yoder. She was not 
heard above the din of laughter and 
applause for this unique costume of 
hotel supplies.
The Maggie Murphs turned loose 
some unruly Plebes. Flaming Youth, 
a costume of brightest scarlet, won 
recognition while others, a tube of 
Tooth Paste and a Fat Man were 
following close on her heels.
Those lucky Plebes freed from the 
Burvellanee to regulations are: 
Margaret Morrison
Jean P. Daubb, Mary E. OBrien, 
Dorothy E. Douglas, Katherine M. 
Bindley, Lillian J. Swaveck, Ester F. 
Jones, Alice P. Hurley.
Science and Industries.
A. J. Koch, J. A. Till, Jones, G. D* 
Porter, G. E. Doty, C. E. Stone, A. J. 
Burgert, S. E. Jurista, Zimmers, R. 
Bridges, George Irvine, William Garver.
Arts. '
Ida C. Golding, Ida Waldron, Grace 
Glennon,. Elsa Gunnerson, F. Seese, 
Edwin Eborman, IT. H. Bailey, Jones.
ALL FOOLS DAY PICTURES
ARE BEING SHOWN IN CITY
Tn addition to the movies'that will 
be shown this week by the ' SunNews-' Weekly in Pittsburgh, Kinograms News Weekly will show views 
taken on All Fools Day through
out the country. The Sun-News 
Woelcly pictures will be shown 
throughout this week in most of the 
Rowland and Clark theaters in this 
district.
The Kinogmms views will be 
shown in the following Pittsburgh 
theaters: Regent, State and Harris,
April. 7 to 9; Manor, April 11; 
Strand (Oakland), April 14; Belmar, 
April 15, and Plaza, April 16.
1* .j. .j .j .j. <{. ,r, j. 4. *i* .j j.
ROBERT GILMORE SMI 1 H
We wish to express our sor
row in the nows of tho recent 
death of Robert Gilmore Smith, a 
Sophomore in the College of In
dustry.
A weplc ago Smith was taken 
sick with diphtheria. Later in 
tho woek I10 improved and was 
told limit ho could leavefthe lios* 
lt.nl, but unfortunately ho con 
traded a septic sore throat 
which caused his death,
Bob Smiths homo Is in 
Orange, Mass. He was a mom' 
her of tho Sigma Nu fraternity. 
His untimely death Is a shock 
to his many acquaintances.
* * -I* * * *! * * * * -I* * * *
AMERICA
America, D. W. Griffitlft photodramatic epic of tho War of Inde
pendence, made for the Daughters of 
the American Revolution, as their 
contribution to, the sesquicentennial 
celebration of the struggles of this 
country, for freedom, will have its 
Pittsburgh premiere at the Shubert 
Pitt Theater, Monday afternoon, 
April 7.
Practically every historical and 
patrotic organization in the country, 
co-operated in the making of this re
markable and thrilling drama, loan
ing invaluable relics for use as prop
erties, and valuable documents for 
research purposes.
A Targe orchestra will interpret the 
cleverly arranged musical score, and 
a typical D. W. Griffith presentation 
of the picture is assured.
SWEEPSTAKES RULES
Sweepstakes Rules ;HB 123456
1. All fraternities who are members of the inter-fraternity council are 
eligible for competition.
2. Entries must be posted with the chairman of the Sweepstakes Commit*- 
tee before 8:00 P. M., Tuesday evening, May 13.
3. The race will start promptly at 10:00 A. M., Saturday, May 17. All 
cars must be on the speedway at 9:30 of this morning.
4. A team shall consist of five men, one driver and four pushers, whose 
names shall be posted with the chairman of the Sweepstakes Committee 
before 9:00 A. M. the morning of the race.
5. No man who has earned his letter In traok or cross-country shall be 
eligible an a pusher.
G. Only one man may push at any one time and pushers must be changed 
at points which will be definitely marked the day of the race.
7. Tho course of the race shall bo as follows: Start In front of Central
building; continue down Woodlawn avenue to Tech stroet; continue up 
Tech street to the boulevard; turn to right and down boulevard to 
Schcnlcy bridge; at Schenley bridge turn to the right and continue up 
Woodlawn avenue. The finish of the racc will be at tho boardwalk in front of Arts School.
8. Approximately, tho points where the pushers shall change are: On
Tech street midway between Woodlawn avenue and the Boulevard. 
Midway betwoen Schenley bridge and the entrance to Machinery Hall. 
At a point two-thirds of the distance up the hill In front of Industries 
building. The same man shall drive the entire course. At no time 
shall the driver and pusher exchange places. Any team so doing shall be disqualified.
9. Each car must weigh at least sixty pounds and must have four wheels.
10. All spectators must keep off the track. The committee will have the 
power to disqualify any entry whose members interfere with the race 
in any way whatsoever.
11. Silver cups will be awarded: One to the winner of the race and one to
the team having the best designed racing car. The trophy for design
\ will be awarded before the race. Freaks such as cigars, grasshoppers, 
ships, etc., will not be considered and will not be allowed to participate in the race.
Candidates from the four colleges 
for the office of Student Council pres-j 
ldent will be elected at noon today. 
The Council will select the president | 
from the four candidates.
Last Friday three girls had been 
nominated in Margaret Morrison, five 
men in Arts, two in Science, and one 
in Industries. The Tartan, in order 
to give the studets the opportunity 
of learning the stand which the nomi
nees take upon the activities ques
tion, the most important problem with 
which the Student Council will deal 
next year, asked each of them for a 
statement upon that subject. The re
plies of the girls are given first, and 
then those of the men, in the alpha
betical order of their names.
Esther Johnson.
The activity point system as prac
ticed at Carnegie last year is in need 
of revision. The idea of not allow
ing a student to overburden himself 
with activities is good.
The way to get Freshmen out for 
activities is to have the advantages of 
working with fellow students present
ed to them in true .colors.
Isabelle Sowash.
Most students do not come out for 
activities because they are not prop
erly encouraged. If they are given 
work to do, they will do it. The Stu
dent Council must work out a plan 
that will enable all students to do 
their bit and receive suitable reward.
Mary Stuempfle.
The activity point scheme has some 
good features, but the plan used last 
year was too unwieldy in practice. The 
thing which brings students out for 
activities is the desire to participate 
in student life, and the thought of 
recognition is a secondary considera
tion.
M. D. Kallfelz.
The point system is not needed by 
upperclassmen. They know better 
than any one else how many activi
ties they can carry.
One means of interesting Plebes in 
to have Dr. Baker in his welcoming 
speech at assembly point out the ben
efits to be derived from association 
with fellow students. Class officers, 
too, in appointing committees should 
not be afraid to name new men.
Wayne Koppes.
The present point system is use
less. It is almost impossible to pre
vent a mans going into more activitie than the legal number, once he has 
started to take part in them.
If students are made to realize that 
activities are as important as studies 
they will come out for them. Frater
nities can help by getting Freshmen 
out and be relieving men active in 
school work from fraternity responsi
bilities.
Milo Matter.
The present system requires too 
much work by the student chairman 
of the activity point committee in 
collecting data and compiling records. 
The records are out of date before 
they can be used.
If men would be given some reward 
for faithful service regardless of at
taining success, there would be in
creased competition for the executive 
positions in student activities.
V. S. IVrotenauer.
The point system is not worth the 
work required to take care of it. Un
der the old System a man might be 
obliged to drop an al'year activity in 
oivjler to take part in one of short du
ration.
Plebes do not realize what activi
ties will be worth to them in later 
years. A11 article in the lmnd-book 
and talks by upper classmen would 
help to make tliepi realize the value 
of participation in activities.
O. B. Newman.
The idea of the point system is ex
cellent, but the method used in run
ning the one last year was imprac
ticable. Mqn should be held down to 
a certain number of activities.
Love of the school is the big incen
tive to bring men out. It is hard for 
many Carnegie students to come out 
because they work outside school. 
More rivalry in the Plebe class would 
be effective in inducing men to work 
in student projects.
. Dick Reid.
All candidates for managerial posi
tions should be placed on the same 
footing, all working for some mana
gership. At the end of the year the 
Athletic Council could proportion the 
men to. the positions for which they 
were best suited. This system would 
encourage more Freshmen to come 
out for managerial work and would 
more efficiently provide help - for all 
the managers.
Hoffer Sload.
The point system is the surest way 
of increasing interest in activities. If 
everyone were required to have some 
points of activity for graduation, more 
students would enter into school af
fairs. Competition is the life of trade 
and it is also the life of activities.
Jerry Slye.
The biggest thing to work for at 
Carnegie right now is a graduate 
manager %f non-athletics to take care 
of the point system. The point sys
tem should be put into effect with the 
number of points for each activity in 
direct relation to the amount of work 
required.
Let me tell you, the architects i 
at their smoker put it all over thej 
Science and Industries Fellows, says! 
Bill Pfouts. I dont know whether 
its the temperment or not, but they j 
were there with the stuff. And Bill J 
should know for he goes to nearly all j 
the stag affair on the campus. This 
and chewing tobacco are his chief 
activities outside of class hours. And 
heres why he knows, Mr. Pfouts 
likes to tell stories, and to most of 
the students he is known as a story 
teller rather than an instructor. Bill 
can tell more and better stories than 
anyone pise on the campus and thats 
why he is -in demand for the student 
events.
Mr. Pfouts is Head Instructor in 
Pattemmaking and has been at Car
negie since the first year of classes. 
Before coming here Bill had spent 
most of his time gathering knowledge 
and experience in various plants in 
the patternmaking industry. He has 
worked on all kinds of work, in all 
kinds of places and knows his busi
ness thoroughly.
I came to Carnegie Technical 
Schools with the idea of spending a 
year or so here and then leaving, 
Mr. pfouts said, "but I came to like 
the work and liked my students, so 
year after year I kept coming back 
and am still here.1
Bill Pfouts is a great friend of his 
students and* of anyone who knows 
him. He likes to talk and can talk
about anything. Here's what The 
Tartan of December 2, 190S, says 
about Mr. Pfouts:
Can you not see a tall black
haired man standing in the upper 
corridor (Industries) at a spot wliere 
a good view of the pattern shop 
might be obtained, and cant you see 
that same man incline his head to 
signify that you might stand and de
liver as per request of the old sol
dier who said will you give me a 
chew, etc.? Could the request and 
the stage setting conjure up any pic
ture but that of Mr. Pfouts? And 
after you had complied with his re
quest and seated yourself in his of
fice chair wouldnt you be repaid for 
your generosity? For let it be 
known that Mr. Pfouts has ideas and 
while not giving voice to them at all 
times, if pushed, is at no loss and 
leaves Sis hearer at no loss to un
derstand his meaning. The topics? 
Well they cover a range that we will 
not attempt to name, but he has 
opinions on them all. He was in
tended by nature to be a soldier and 
only the mere fact, that our short
sighted country did not furnish us 
with a war until he had become the 
head of a house prevented him from 
being one.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL 
3904 FORBES STREET
SHORALLS
3710 FORBES STREET Schenley 9318
Marvelous Fruit and Nut
NAMES PUT ON FREE 
Mailed to all parts of the country.
WE SPECIALIZE IN FRATERNITY LETTERS
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital   - - 
Surplus - - - - 
Deposits, Over 
- $300,000.00
- $300,000.00 
 $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
with the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience un- j 
necessary; no canvassing. 
SEND FOR ' PARTICULARS 
Newswriters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Corner Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 oclock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 6:30 So
cial Unit Tea. followed by an 
interesting program, should be 
of interest to students.
You say you buy 
tobacco on its taste
Velvet tastes right because its made from the 
best Kentucky Burley tobacco that money can 
buyand because every bit of it is slowly and 
thoroughly aged in wood.
Thats why youll find aged in wood Velvet 
so mild and fine flavored. Rememberaged 
in wood.
GENNRAA L SMREBY TODUIIO COH

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 8, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
I^fc  A  SHV A nri  T  1 O1
J#PLAID ATHLETICS&
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
MIDGE MATTER TO 
LEAD CAGE SQUAD
SPRING FOOTBALL TO BE
STARTED UNDER WADDELL
INTRA-MURAL SELECTIONS
At the end of every sport season, it seems that a regular epidemic of 
All-Americanitis, or something of that sort, sets in and all sport writers are 
infested with it. Whether the practice of picking all-star teams was invent
ed as a means of filling space in dull seasons, or whether it has some more 
dignified and illustrious beginning is not to he debated here.
But we would not be on our toes as a sport writer if we did not piclc an 
all-star team, and hence we offer for the approval of our thousands of readers 
the names of the men whom we think deserved special mention as having 
played consistent and good basket ball during the past season of fraternity 
and dormitory competition.
It is worthy of note that the list below is not the choice of one man, 
but is the consensus of opinion of various persons who have been in close 
tqiich with the games throughout the season, and in whose judgment we have 
confidence. Men in the Physical Training department who referreed some 
of the games, and some of the managers were consulted in the preparation of 
the following list:
First Team.
Duncan (Scobell)
Kohne (Pi Kappa Alpha)
Glanz (Acacia)
Gilbert (Sigma Nu)
Brooks (Pi Kappa Alpha) _
Third Team.
Rogers (Boss)
Conrad (Delta Tau Delta)
Cooper (Sigma Nu)
Gallagher (Delta Mu)
Walfish (Beta Sigma Rho)
HONORABLE MENTION: Hernandez (Scobell), Bitner, (Welsh), Smith
(Sigma Epsilon Phi), Bahr (Alpha Tau Omega), Bournes (Kappa Sigma Rho), 
Halin (Scobell), Bastian (Beta Theta Pi), Griggs (Woodlawn).
The position of ALL-INTRA-MURAL MANAGER should go, in our opin
ion, to E. G. Johnson of Scobell Hall. We base this selection on his loyalty 
and conscientiousness, and the manner in which he filled his job generally. 
Scobell Hall men attribute a large part of their success during the past sea
son to the untiring efforts of Manager Johnson.
The above selections will not please every one. But we have attempted 
to make them as representative of student opinion as possible under the 
circumstances. We should be glad to hear from anyone who may have some 
helpful criticism to offer.
Stellar Forward of This Sea
son to Captain '24-25 
Outfit
Second Team.
McWilliams (Theta Xi) 
Diffley (Scobell)
Kristof (Pi Kappa Alpha) 
Shriver (Scobell)
Schwab (Pi Kappa Alpha)
TO THE WINNERS
We offer our congratulations to Pi Kappa Alpha, Scobell Hall and Alpha 
Tau Omega, the first-place winners in their respective leagues. Especially 
must we commend the work of the first mentioned team, who won the cham
pionship of the school by going through the entire Season, including the 
finals, -without suffering a defeat. __________________________
ABILITY 
The ABILITY of an insurance 
agent or broker is proven after 
a loss and the result of the loss 
adjustment is the foundation of 
his future success. At this time 
personality and friendship are 
forgotten. Skill, knowledge and 
service count.
Put Your Insurance In Safe 
Hands.
JOS. P. FISHER AGENCY 
Established 1886 
PITTSBURGH 
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554
WHOD A THUNK IT
We interviewed ONE of the iloor 
Procters in Cioverleaf on the impor
tant question, Do Co-eds Kiss, and 
she answered in a mounful tone, 
Youd be surprised at the amount 
of kissing going on right under my 
nose.Emery Wheel.
Frosh: I got fity per cent on my
intelligence test.
Senior: Yea! That makes you
half wit, doesnt it?McGill.
The Carnegie Tech basket ball 
squad will have another capable 
leader next season in Midge Matter, 
the popular forward of this years 
team. The announcement of Mat
ter's election was made after the 
ballots cast by the members of this 
seasons squad had been counted last 
Tuesday.
This is the second year that Mat
ter has made liis letter in varsity 
basketball. Smaller and lighter 
than the average basket ball star, 
he has made good by sheer determin
ation and the ability to use his gray 
matter to good advantage. That is 
one thing that has been noticed 
about Midge in every gamehis cool, 
brainy manner of playing.
The new captain is well known in 
other activities on the campus than 
basket ball. He began his political 
career by being elected treasurer of 
his Freshman class, and - was re
elected to the same office the next 
year. He is now President of the 
Junior class of Science school, and 
has been nominated for President of 
the Student Council. Midge is also 
a pole-vaulter of ability.
Organization which have his name 
on their rolls- are Sigma Nu frater
nity, Druids, Delta Skull, Theta Tau, 
C Club, Student Council, Science Sen
ate. There may be others, but wc 
cannot think of them at the present 
time.
It is Celt that the men on the 
squad made a wise selection in 
making Matter their leader for 1924- 
25.
Spring football practice will start | 
immediately after the Easter recess, j 
according to tho Graduate Manager 
of Athletics. Candidates ' will be 
called out on the 'afternoon of April 
22. and tho practice will be in di
rect charge of Assistant Coach Bob 
Waddell. The spring practice is for 
all candidates for next years varsity 
squad.
GUY HALFERTY IS 
ATHLETE OF NOTE
TENNIS TEAM HOLDS
OUTDOOR PRACTICE
INFIELD CANDIDATES 
REPORT FOR PRACTICE
ALPHA TAU MAKES
KNOWN ELECTIONS
(Continued From Page One.) 
ever, excelled the rest and carried off 
first honors.
The committee in charge was as 
follows:
John V. Foster, Chairman; Tom 
Dempsey, George Core, J. Iv. Matter, 
C. E. Mellor, D. K. Minns.
The call, issued last week, for the 
infield baseball candidates brought out 
some good material. The men are 
practicing every afternoon on the 
football field, under the supervision 
of Coach Al Irwin.
Among the infield candidates are: 
R. W. Beil, L. E. Smith, A. W. Bryant, 
P. E. Meyer, F. B. McMaloy, M. Bas
tian, F. M. McClelland, C. McCarthy, 
J. D. Jarema, C. H. Turner, I. B. New
man, J. H. Schneider, Art Barr, J. A. 
Robertson, and A. E. Thomas.
Just as soou as the weather settles, 
the field at Schenley Oval will be put 
into use for daily practice sessions.
CAMPUS WEEKS BRAND
NEW FEATURES RELIEVES 
US FROM GROUCHY TEACHERS
(Continued From "Page One.) 
doesnt get a cent more than you 
do, she whispers coyly, as she 
plants a lciss on his big masculine 
whiskers.
On the second iloor lives a young 
married couple just back from their 
honeymoon. When the scone opens 
the young wife is sitting on her 
husband's knee asking him for a 
fur coat and a) roadster. Mrs. Jones 
right upstairs is going to get one 
and her husband doesn/Tt get a cent 
more than you do, she wispors 
coyly, as she plants a kiss on his 
smooth shaven protruding jaw.
On the third iloor is a young mar
ried couple who lvave just returned 
from their honeymoon. When tho 
scene opens she is sitting on his 
knee asking him for a fud coat and 
a roadster. Mrs. Jones and Mrs. 
Smith downstairs, etc.
Thats just tho opening. Unique? 
True to life? You bet. The rest is 
hilarious as you can imagine.
The Great EngineeringAchievement of 1899
What 
Engineering 
Owes to 
Initiative
P
RIOR to 1899 
the works of the 
Westinghouse Air
brake Company was 
operated by re
ciprocating engines 
distributed in 
various parts of the
plant. While this source of power was 
inefficient in many respects, it way the best 
known commercial motive force of the day.
By 1899, however, remarkable develop
ments had been made in the design and con
struction of steam turbines and electric gener
ating equipment, Called to the attention ofthe Airbrake officials, it was decided to give 
the new machines a chance, and three Wes
tinghouse Steam Turbines were installed with
out delay. This was the first large installation 
of its kind, anywhere.
Daddy of All Large 
Commercial Turbines 
Began Operation at 
Wilmerding
It required initiative to take this step 
-someone had to be first. And, as in 
all importantpioneeringachievements, 
f here was much skepticism as to resul ts. 
However, the new units quickly proved their 
practicability. Although of only 400 K. W. 
capacity they proved muchtaore efficient and 
economical than the old reciprocating engines. 
Their economy was particularly conspicuous 
because by careful test they showed a fuel 
saving of approximately 36 per cent.
Steam turbine development thus received 
its first real impetus in 1899, the Wilmerding, 
Pa., performance definitely establishing this 
electrical unit as a better method of turning 
the wheels of industry.
Westinghouse ( W
ACHIEVEMENT & OPPORTUNITY
VESTINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC
Held World Record and 
Starred in Three Sports 
for Flaid
A prominqut figure in Carnoglo 
Tech sports just now is Coach Guy 
HulCerty of the track team. This 
young man, though only in the early 
thirties, has seen more track and has 
had a more varied experience than 
probably any other track coach in 
Western Pennsylvania.
Coach Halferty is essentially a. pro
duct of Carnegie Tech, having grad
uated in the Class of OS. He re
turned to. Carnegie the following year 
and took up a post-graduate course. 
At that time the restrictions placed I 
on athletics were not so rigid as they 
are now, and Halferty was able to: 
take part in various sports in 09.
As an athlete, Halferty stands acehigh. Pie was an all-around track i 
man, taking a prominent part in both j 
the low and high hurdles, the 100 and j 
220-yard dashes, the 440-yard run, and 
was also on the relay team. He made 
his letter in track three years07, 
OS, and '00. During these three years 
he played in the outfield on the basoball nine, making his letter each year. 
He was captain of the baseball team 
in OS. But this was not all. The first 
year Halferty was at Carnegie he went 
out for football, and despite tho fact 
that ho is rather light, played xi line 
game and earned his letter. This was 
in OG. During the following years ho 
developed into such a good track,and 
baseball man that ho gave up foot
ball, giving all of his time to tho 
other sports and his studios.
Coach Halferty holds quite a fow 
records in track, and has placed In 
some of the biggest meets in tho coun
try. While in school ho sot a school 
record in tho 220-yard low lnirdlos, 
time 25 2/5 seconds, which still stands 
after all those years. Ho also holds 
tho Middle Atlantic A. A. U. 220-yard 
low liurdlo record at 2' seconds fiat. 
The worlds, record of seven seconds 
which Halferty made in tho 50-yard 
high hurdles stood until rocontiy, 
when it was lowered a fraction of a 
second.
Coach Halferty has boon captain 
of tho Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
track team sinco 1914, and ban run 
under their colors for many yuurn. 
Tho last Important raco in which Halforty took part was at tho National 
Tndoor Junior Champlomihlp Meet at 
Buffalo in 1921. I/o won second placo 
in tho 70-yard high hurdles,
11. Is felt at Carnegie Tocli that 
no hotter or more fitting man could 
have beon chosen for track coach 
than Guy Halferty. Hills thorough 
Icnowlodgo of everything connooted 
with track, his wldo exporlonco and 
his ability to Impart track Informa
tion to tho men should bring results. 
Wlvllo tho material at Coach Tlulfort.ys command Is not exceptionally 
promising, It Is folt that ho will bo 
able to develop to a fairly high do* 
groo of proficiency tho men at his 
command. Already tho men who have 
boon out aro showing dooldod signs 
of lmprovomont, and track proMpoctu 
talco on a rosier lino each day. Coach 
Halferty Is working hard to got tho 
relay team in shape for tho Ponn 
Relays which are a little ovor two. 
weeks away, and no stono will bo 
left unturned to retain tho relay 
championship of tho Technical School 
Class. It is a singular fact that In 
'08 and 09 Hal forty ran on tho re
lay teams of Carnegie that won tho 
championship during thoso years, and 
now is attempting to develop a toain 
that will make a strong bid for the 
same championship.
MANY ENTRIES SENT FOR 
INTERSCHOLASTIC MEET
Entries so far received for the 
Eighth Annual Interscliolastlc Track 
and Field Meet, to be held at Tech 
Field on May 10, point to a meet of 
exceptional quality.
Practically all the high schools in 
Pittsburgh and the vicinity are en
tered, and the Tri-State district as a 
whole is exceedingly well represented. 
The caliber of schools participating is 
even higher than that of previous, 
years, and such well known names 
as Allegheny High of Cumberland, 
Md.; Jamestown High, Jamestown, N. 
Y.; Harrisburg Tech, Harrisburg, Pa.; 
South High of Akron, Ohio; South 
High of Youngstown, Ohio; and Waite 
and Scott High of Toledo, Ohio, are 
found among the list of entries. As 
stated before, preparatory schools 
will not be eligible for tills event.
The program this year includes 
fourteen events, to he followed by 
the relays, which will be run off in 
three or four sections. It is planned 
that the cups and medals to be pre
sented shall be more elaborate than 
ever before, and in all respects well 
worth the winning, *
The unusually large number of dis
tant schools entered will be accom
modated, as expected, by the Carnegie 
fraternities.
A list of thoso schools invited to 
enter is posted on the various bulle
tin hoards of tho campus, and all stu
dents whose homo town Is represent
ed there, aro very earnestly request
ed to talk up this meet during the 
coming vacation. Tills Is of groat 
importance, as first-hand knowledge 
and personal interviews furnished by 
students are greatly to be preferred, 
and will be appreciated by the high 
schools.
Miss: But you are a professor and 
I am only a Normal School student.
Prof. Lav/s: But Id like to teach
you love.
Miss: How many are taking that
course?Polytechnic Reporter.
Last Friday afternoon and all day 
Saturday tho inhabitants of Squirrel 
4-l'llI were treated to a glorious spec
tacle. Tho Carnegie Tech tennis 
team-to-be took their first outdoor 
workout on the concrete courts of 
Mr. McRae, and showed that their 
tennis eyes were far from being- O. 
lv. But, Wlthall, prospects did not 
seem to bo overly bad, ills had been 
predictions so far. Pessimism seems 
to prevail the tennis alcoves whether 
wright or wrong, but. there seems to 
bo little reason. for an over amount 
of this sort of feelings, or there are 
a number of fairly good players on 
the campus, and when they have 
been smoked out of their liibornating 
tactics, prospects will not appear 
quite so bad.
With a squad of sixty-five men 
trying for the varsity and Freshman 
teams combined, there surely seems 
to bo grounds for hope that Carnegie 
Tech will again be represented by 
a first class team. All of which re
minds us that we can put forth a 
pretty good team and still be a step 
of two behind the ones which preceedod it.
Coach Fink still Wants it under
stood that ho will not cut the squad 
for quite a while. Fact is, he says 
he never will out it down but w 
carry as largo a squad as there are 
men out for the teams throughout 
tho season. This because, as stated, 
before, he is desirous of developing 
the men as much as possible.
There has been a division of varsljbyi and Freshman material, but 
this Avas done not to segregate the 
two squads, but because of athletic 
office rulings. A soiVoiruto list of 
these two classes of candidates must 
bo sent to tho recorders office and 
the offlco of the Doan of Mon in 
order that tlioy can bo placed on tho 
ollglblo lists, In order that they can 
he excused from physical trailing.
Tho following is a oompiote list of 
tho men out for -tho combined Fresh
man land VnrBlty squad: Dovore
Ptirter, C. O. Garland, R. C. Kurt/., R. 
A. Roger, George Beochor, Wm. 
Schelde, W. R. Bernard, Wallace
Sandberg, E. F. Allon, Fred Rudlsill. 
Edward Wright, L. F. Vogt, J. A. 
Funkhauscr, Edw. McCarthy, Paul 
Bowron, S. B. Davidson, IT. R. Jones, 
Edw. Wolf, E. W. ICoovor, Cordon 
Harris, Wm. Gowor, W. It. Hughes, 
Daniel CEaAr T. I'. La/ughry, P. M. 
William, if. K. Cottrell, Jno. Baurlo,
E. E. Loughlln, Max Lolbowit/,, IT.
F. Simpson, IT. P. Meredith, J. N. 
Tllbrook,, L. E. Jonos, H, (!. Bourns. 
C. IV, McWilliams, 1>. M. Davidson, 
C. E. Schauck, II, E. Pottolger, M, 
1!. Morrison, U. Ill, l,ohr. n, D, 
Rhoads, W. II. Reynolds, S. B, Ewing, 
W. 10. Cavon, it!. R. Jonos, A.. O. Jen
nings, .1. lvlllon, W. Starr, L. I. 
Stlmmlor, C. L. Munroo, J. M. Starke. 
J. F. Strl'/.nlc, Buolcloy, J. P, Ternoy.
Tho plnoo you hnve boon look
ing for
THE OAKLAND RE8TAURANT 
3711 FORBES 8TREET
Our Motto: QUALITYSERVICE
PI KAPPA ALPHA 
WINS IN FINALS
Outplays Scobell Hall and 
Alpha Tau Omega for 
Championship
The intramural basket ball cham
pionship series was brought to a 
close last Saturday when Pi Kappa 
Alpha was victorious ovor Scobell 
Halls fast little five. It was the 
story of a good big team heating a 
good little team. At the beginning 
of tho game Scobel jumped off to a 
five-point lead, but tho opponents 
then took the lead, and had very 
little trouble in maintaining it 
throughout the game, the final score 
ybeiug 22 to 10 in Pi Kappa Alphas 
favor.
Alpha Tau Omega, though not win
ning any games in the series, was 
always considered a dangerous oppo
nent, as was shown by the fact that 
they forced Pi Kappa Alpha to win 
by tho close score of 12 to S.
The series was marked by fast,
liard-fought games. Tho little bit ol 
roughness which entered in, was
due only to the keen rivalry be
tween the organizations.
Results of Championshlp Sur|es.
Pi Kappa Alpha 22, Alpha Tau 
Omega llJ
iScobel Hall 25, Alpha Tau Ome
ga 14.
Pi Rapini Alpha 17, i^cobel Hall 7.
PI Kappa Alpha 12, Alpha Tau 
Omoga 8.
Scobel Hall 16, Alpha Tau Ome
ga 12.
PI Kappa Alpha 22, Scobel Hall 10.
Final Standing of tho 1 enms.
W. L. PoiPi Kappa Alpha............ 4 0 1000
Scobel Hall ................. 2 2 .500
Alpha Tau Omega.... 0 4 .000
Belloficld 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenuen. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pantor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mons Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor. toaoheH Mons Clans, Guild 
ami Livingstone'.
Teah ntudontn nlwnyn woloome.
DAVIES and HUC-HES
ITiget ig-FV
3015 FORBE8 STREET 
Noxt To Strand Thoator
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbou
OPEN EVENING8
Dam on _
"Wliat did Professor Smith mean this morning when he told you 
I hut no mnn could ever make a 
Ilk purse out of a how's ear? 
Pythias
'He meant Hint Id never he able to do good work with a poor pencil. 
Guess J II have lo get a Dixon 
Eldorado. Old Smity says Its the 
, hcst drawing pencil made."
ELiffibO
"Vie master thawingpencil'
17 cadsall dealers
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring 
ones. Bogin now to acquirc 
those of saving and accumu
lating money.
An account with the Mellon 
National Bank will give you 
a splendid start. Persistent 
savings will develop financial 
independence. The experi
ence, to say nothing of the 
money itself, will in later life 
prove Invaluable to you.
Come in and talk It over.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbu^h, Pa.
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF RETAILING
The School of Retailing trains for executive positions.
Merchandising Personnel Teaching
Advertising Training Service
Finance and Control 
Merchants are eager to secure trained men and women In these fields. 
Service Fellowships.
Certificate ..................................................................................................1 year
M. S. in Retailing...................................................................................2 years
Illustrated booklet on application. For further Information write 
Dr. Norris A, Brisco, Director of Now York University School of Re
tailing, 100 Washington Square, New York. City.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTAKTUESDAY. APRIL 8, 1924
& 1ALUMNI PAGE !
&
Vaudeville Show Will 
Open 1924 Campus Week
Followingf llie eBtttWlBhod custom 
of pust yoars, tho vaudevlllo how at 
tlio Carnegie Muslc Hall, will oillcialJy opon tho 1924 Campus Woolc program.
Tho ahow thIa. yoar will hogJn ut
3.0 a. m. on Iho mornlng of May J,ij. A 
versaUle gronp of poritirmoro hau 
been jocured to furnldh tho onterlalnment. Tills llst o actors Includos 
ovory campiiB porformor of noto.
Tho 1024 vaudovJllo ahow 1D bolng 
dlroctod hy Horb Polonlo. Davo Ourhr will atfcond to Mio Btago proportlea und effocts; whllo L. R. Brown 
1D tho Business mauagor.
ANNUAL EXHIBITION 
NIGHT ON APRIL 25
Weekly Luncheon of 
Alumni New Feature
Hotel Henry Will be Scene 
of Frequent Gatherings
On Friday, April 11, tho Plttopjirgh 
Clu/n o Carnoglo Alumni Hall will 
hold their first weekly luncheon at 
, the Hotel Henry. For some time It 
has been felt that there v/as a de
mand Xor an Informal weekly gettogether of Carnegie aluninl, and it 
iB hoped that tliiB luncheon will sup
ply the demand. Undoubtedly these 
weekly noon-luncheons will become 
a Carnegie tradition for alroady a 
number ol! alumni having offices in 
tho downtown . district havo given 
their promise to bo at tho Hotel 
Henry April 3/1.
The regular soventy-fivo cent pinto 
luncheon will bo served, or a la 
carte service XD available.
The luncheon Is called for 12:in 
oclock laid will bo served to each 
person aB ho arrlvos. Thoro will be 
no lona-wlnclod aponkcro or 11 twosome entertainers, and any guest will bo 
free to leave Immodlatoly after lunch
eon or to stay as long as desired. 
Arrangements  havo boon made to 
sorvo those who cannot come until 
12:8fy or later, thereby accommo
dating any alumni who are located 
Homo distance from tho hotel.
All alumni and forinor stud onto of 
Carnoglo Tech atre Invited to drop in 
i'or tho opening luncheon, Friday, 
April 11. Reservations are not ab
solutely necessary, but they will help 
tho committee and tho managomonf. 
of tho hotel. Thoy should bo made 
with Thomas McDonald, secretary 
of tho Pittsburgh Clan, by calling 
tho Alumni Offlco at Schenloy 2000.
ALUNNI RECOGNITION 
WILL BE I ACILITATLD
All Visitors Welcomed and 
Especially So If Led by 
Carnegie Alumni
Many of tho dreams of tho early 
snokors after knowledge upon the 
vani- Holds of Sohonloy, havo oomo 
true iu, tho last fow months, Now | 
another one Is about to be fulflllod.
It has long ho ou foil, that there 
should bo some mark, whereby men 
ol! iCurnoglo and women oG Oarnuglo 
as well, could reconnl/o oneh other. 
For that purismo vu ring was designed 
and In boing worn by many of the 
loyal SOUS and daughters of Dear Old 
'Pooh.
Now, however, thoro Is evoryi ronson to bollovo that by Campus Woolc 
the Alumni Offloo may ho able lo 
furnish us with pins.
Rings turo all' right. They are 
ornamental and to a certain extent 
useful wo are told, blit ono can not 
well go up to a stranger and uslc 
permission to look at his hnmd, and 
thus indirectly diBcovor Ills origin.
Tho pins are of a unique design 
and aro being taken care of by tho 
Alumul Office. That means that 
when you spe a persons with a pin 
you mmiy bo suro that ho lias really 
had the iCarneglo spirit, for not all 
undergraduates will bo permitted to 
purchase one of them.
An effort to attract the largcBt 
crowd of visitors in tho history of 
tho Institute will bo mado in con
nection with tho Carnegie Annual 
Inhibition planned for Friday night, 
April 25. There are thousands of 
PlttHburghors who havo never at
tended Carnegie Exhibition, and have 
no concoptlon of tho treat they 
havo missed.
Because of this apparent lack of 
appreciation, an 8. O. 8. call Is is
sued to the Alumni. The exhibition 
offers a definite opportunity to aid 
In making now rlondu of tho Institu
tion. Hero in tho idun:
Every alumnus is requested to 
send In to tho Alumni Office the 
name of at least one of his friends 
who 1ms not visited tho school on 
tho occasion of a former annual ex
hibition. When such a name is re
ceived, an Invitation card and a 
program will bo immediately mailed 
to the name furnished. Tho names 
of high school students particularly 
are requested. In tho past many 
alumni havo expressed *aj willingness 
to load a group of high school stu
dents through tho school on a sim
ilar occasion, and this year It is 
hoped that this feature will bo do 
velopad.
Tho addition of several new fea 
Lures to tho program indicates that 
this year's exhibition will be better 
tliun over before. The new .$400,000 
gymnuslum will be open to public in
spection for tho first time on that 
night, and this should be a big at
traction.
Another interesting attraction will 
bo a full-sized brick bungalow which 
will bo completed In tho Brick Shop 
In the liub-busement of tho College 
of Industries hy the night of tho 
exhibition. All of the construction 
work on tho bungalow has boon oxecutod by students of both tho day 
and night classes. It XD p'osslble, al
so, that tho house will bo furnished 
in time for April 25 by a local fur
niture house.
Tho Mino locatod under tho Sci 
onco Building will again bo opon Ic 
ho Inspection of tho thousands whc 
find this marvel In educational do 
volopmont. in tho Collogo of Fine 
Arts, there will bo exhibitions o 
stmlont work by all departments 
nd in the thoator tho 0*mdc De
partment will presont recitals, and 
tho Drama Department will produco 
sconos from "Richard tho Third."
Throughout tho four oollogos, as 
usual!, students will bo at work in 
all hops, laboratories, studios and 
lass rooms, and special exhibits nro 
planned In many of thorn, Tho oxhllon is scheduled for the hours of 
7: :to to 2EO22VO p. m.
| THE TELESCOPE j
Last week tho following Alumni 
revisited the halls of their old Alma 
Mater:
R. P. Woodward, '20, who Is now 
with tho Board of Education in 
Youngstown, Ohio.
Fred C. Beede, '19, who is also 
teaching tho young mind how to 
shoot at Youngstown.
Harry C. Henderson, now with Dil
lon, Road and Company, Pittsburgh
Al May, '20, now with the White 
motor people In Cleveland. 
R. P. Rhodes, '28, employed as en
gineer by tho Bell Telephone Com
pany.
Gilbert C. Clark, '20, engineer with 
.Tones and Laughlln.
W. B. Underwood, '10, of tho Wilmot Castle Company, Rochester, 
N. Y.
Hubert II. Hull, '10, of the Amer
ican Sterilizer Co., Erie, Pa.
W. (. Smith, 21, making things 
move lor the Jeffrey Dewith iConr 
pany of Huntington, W. Va.
A, F. Eichorn, '28, now production 
man with the Singer Sewing Machine 
Corapamy of Elizabeth N. J.
FOUR CLASSES 
ARE PLANNING 
C. W. REUNIONS
Issues of 12, 13, 14 and 15 
Will be Back for Rebinding 
Hope to Get Worn Backs 
Straightened by Old-Time 
Thumps
GET IN THE LINEUP
You wont need to be ashamed if 
you Iet wet eyes upon reading the 
reminiscences below. You wont be 
the only one that will get them nor 
will you be the only one to act up
on that first Impulse. We are told 
technical people are able to appre
ciate Values. Let's see the result.'
Our goal is one thousand Alumni 
back from out of Pittsburgh. Fifteen 
hundred from the local district must 
report here on the three days.
ALUMNI ARE INVITED TO
ATTEND SENIOR BALL, APRIL 24
Alumni, tho Senior Glass extends 
to you a cordial Invitation to attend 
tho Senior Ball this yoar. A vory 
ploanant parly is being planned and 
wo fool sure that you would enjoy to 
oomo baok and moot some of tho men 
who have taken your place.
The dope on the ball Js thin: It Ja 
to he formal, I lie price Is dirt cheap 
(throe dollars), It will be held at tho 
University Club, the Collegiate Imps 
will play and Ohio Newman will bo 
there with his collection of songs. 
Tho date for tho ball Is Thursday 
night, April 24. Dancing will bo from 
9:00 to 1:00.
THOSE WERE THE DAYS OF REAL SPORTS
COME!!! LETS LIVE THEM OVER AGAIN
WHATS ON YOUR MIND?
The other day I walked into 
A fortune-telling place;
A pretty girl, she read my mind, 
And thenshe slapped my face.
Trojan.
Endorsed !  by 8i%
i By actual observation and count at a re
cent Eastern college football game, eightyone per cent, of the college men wore the 
same type of suit.i 1
You know the suityou recognize instantly 
those subtle details which have made this suit 
the almost unanimous choice of the1 carefully 
clothed collegian. This amazing condition 
is not mere coincidence  it is the result of 
a decided preference.
DUNSHIRK Clothing is faithfully modeled 
after this style in every detail from the low 
English collar through tho soft rowing lapels 
to the wide, comfortable trousers.
zAlivays noticedbut never noticeable!I
?
Sole Distributor in Pittsburgh and Vicinity. 
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
Smithfield Street and Seventh Avenue
rssss J
Tho first thousand copies of the 
Carnegie Song Book have heen ex
hausted. Undoubtedly! many Alumni 
felt that it would be 'all right to 
send for the book when they got 
good and ready. As a consequence 
they must now wait for tho issue -in 
June. That supply too, will be lim
ited and we already have a number 
of ordors for tho books. GET 
YOURS IN NOW.
ALUMNI COMMITTEES 
FOR C. W. ANNOUNCED
Banquet Committee.
G. L. Tilbrook, chairman; Edna 
Smith, Frances Nuttall, Robert 
Schmbftz, 'Clarence Ovorend, Lois 
McCombs, Mrs. Mildred Spencer. 
General Campus Week Committee. 
(!. L. Tilbrook, general chairman; 
Howard B. Pearce, Lillian Coleman, 
Bomico Kruger, I*. J. DeMutb. M. IT. 
Mawhinnoy, Jane Caldwell Harold, J.
B. Sprague, Fred Knowles, Dan Cas
sidy, Clifford Bayard, Mr. and Mrs. 
A I. Dreux, Ed Crump, Robert and 
John Nation, Alan. Bright, M. R. Wal
ton, L. H. Lee, Louise Irvin, A. I-I. 
ICrlgger, J. C. Hobbs, Maud Fire, H. 
Watjtorson, it. M. Marllor, II. G. 
Nlchol, D. Ingalls, K. Sohuman, Olga 
Kilo for, Anna Ilibbs.
You of the classes of '12, '13, 14 
and 15 will bo most interested in 
thf's columnfor It contain^ the 
nameB of a few of your old class
mates who will probalbly be back ior 
their class reunion at Campus Week 
next month. This is your year to 
come back to Carnegie and renew 
acquaintances with the old gang. 
We are not going to give you the lull 
names of these people whom we 
think will be here for Campus 
Week, but merely the nick names 
that were bestowed upon them dur
ing their college days. Here are a 
few. See how many you can re
member.
1912
M. M.''Janie," "Gen, "Bass,
Girlie," Corie,'' "Tim-wrie, Annie 
Laurie and Mahe.1'
Eng."Jimmie, "Booty," "Biggie, 
"Logs, "Ilendy, "Jay, "Jimmy, 
"Lefty," "Pat," "Scotty," "Slivers,' 
"Jaick". Laboon, "Jigaboo" and "Gun
powder Pete." ..
ArtsRed,' "ICritch" and "Gilty"
Ind."Terrible Teddy," Mac, 
"Rambler" and "Tresch."
1913
M. M.Dinks," "Neats/* "Elaw 
and "Carm."
Eng."Fusser" Blair, "Coolie," 
Bob," Chuck," Cap, Nutts,1r 
Duffy," Ruddy, Geary," "Lewy." 
Deacon, Swill," Pete, Red," 
^Rosle," Dutch, Al," "Stucky," 
Blinky," "Stew, "Stubby, "Kid,-' 
"Buck, "Curly," "Abe)/Y Ignatz," 
"Shorty," "Bry'' and "Bill."
Arts"Arch," "Dilly, "Bill, 
"FInkle," -Fritz wind "Ike.
Ind."Dan, "SI," "Simp, Dea
con," "Red,* "Groucho, "Doc, "Dol
ly, "Murph, "Andy, "I-Ionus,v 
"Mac,' "Shine, "Hfammie,"' "Al, 
"Pat,'' "Pete and "Carney."
1914
M. .M."K," Margie," "Ann," 
"Mid,1 "Fat," "I, Tech, "John, 
"Peg" and "Ed."
Ind."Buttermilk Tom, "Bloomie,' 
"Duck, "Ignalz; "Grif, "Riot, 
"Duke, "Phil; "Monk, "Ducky, 
"Rough/ "Red," "Jim" and Steve."
Arts"Goody, "Mac, "Berry,*'
"Button," "Down, "Whl, "Wheel! ALUMNI MAY ORDER 
SONG BOOKS NOW
Registration Bureau to 
Give Out Alumni Badges
MONONGAHELA CARNEGIE CLAN
For some time the Monongahela 
Carnegie Clan, composed of Carnegie 
alumni living in Charleroi, Pa., and 
vicinity, has been quite inactive. This 
has been due largely to lack of ma
terial. eOU8r however, it looks as if 
a Monongahela Clan will once more 
become a reality, for the removal of 
the Macbeth-Evans Glass Company, 
Eastern Division, to Charleroi, Pa., 
from Pittsburgh has taken a number 
of Garnegie men into the Charleroi 
difcuk-t. A number of these men 
were . formerly very active in the 
Pittsburgh Clan and undoubtedly they 
will be very willing and anxious to 
aid in the organization of a Mononga
hela Valley Clan.
The following Carnegie alumni are 
among lbose who are now located in 
Charleroi with the Macbeth-Evans 
Company: E. Y. Davidson, J. P.
Staples, J. Tumpane, H. G. Nichol, H. 
H. Blau, C. H. Stone, W. H. Gillette 
and IC. K. Knaell.
Combined with the other Carnegie 
men in the vicinity it is quite prob
able that we shall hear from the MO
NONGAHELA CARNEGIE CLAN in 
the very near future.
Alumni interested in the formation 
of a clan are urged to get in touch 
with H. G. Nichol, Jr., 318 Washing
ton street, Charleroi, Pa.
Reservations for Carnegie 
Song Books Will be Ac
cepted Now
ing, "Bill,1" "Spike and "Herb.
Eng.Dutch, Tiny, "Doc, 
Skinny, "Erie, "Del," "Foggie, 
"Fait, "P.  X., Clinch, Hollie, 
Holzie, "Pink, Hank,1 Duke,1 
"Mike, Doctor, Paf, Rebel,1 
Andy, Fritz,1 "Fuzzy, "Pills, 
"Chawn, Bloody, J. W., J. C., 
W. J. and "Apius Claudius."
1915
ArtsPuss, Ed, Free, Lee," 
All, Mac, Vic," "Frank, 
Southy and "Jack and Lap.
M. M."George, "Kit, "Lidja, 
"Caro, "Malith, Sue, "Flossie, 
"Mid,' "Millie," "Si," "Ann," "Mary 
W. and "Rufus."
Ind.Jakie, Red," "Doug, 
Wallie. "Bollie," Fritz, Danny,' 
Bush, Eddie, "Fat, Lew," Pedie, Kelch, "Dutch and Hans." 
Engj.Sam, Sclinoops, Bally, 
Vic," iCollie, Doc," "Flannels, 
"Clias, "Don, Porky, "Ed," Ben
nie, Odie, E. E.," Klip,
"Kwimps, "Indian, E. R. Mac, 
"Pete, "A. D.," Tom Pat; Penny, 
"Iiap, Smithy, "Pop, "Stocky, 
"Les," "Roily, "I-Ieinz, Deacon," 
Lou," Bill, Daddy and Ham. 
There will be a rip roarin  time 
when this gang land's in Pittsburgh 
about May 15 or 1G, so come back 
omd get in on the big party.
The Tartan will publish the names 
of all who want to let their friends 
know whore to find them when 
Campus Week rolls around. Drop us 
a card with your dpclaration of in
tention. It will be a signal for a 
real reunion.
Tho first; Beaux Arts Competition?
Th patron dlnnera at Donncgal'o?
Unqlo Andy's visits?
"Rattlaimnkoii I Have Mot", by Wa. 
son ?
Tho Arts Mlnstrol Show in Novem
ber. 1000?
Tho Triumph of St. Nicholas"?
When Eddie Snltzcr and "Doc Sav
age woro on the Job?
Tho White Friars and "Ills IllghnoBs tho Chef?
Tho Aero Club of Carnegie Tech 
and the two-man carrying gliders they 
built in the spring of 1910.
Tho football and hockey season of 
00?
Professor Bill Pfouts "uplift" 
meetings for Plebes?
Those old interclass football and 
basket ball games?
"Deerektor Snyders hurried ex
cursion to the foundry tank?
When sweaters and jerseys were in 
vogue for at least the first three weeks 
of school?
The fights every morning at the 
bridge and on the terrace outside Sci
ence Building entrance?
The Soph reception for Plebes 
held in the old construction shack in 
the hollow behind the Science Build
ing and the B. V. D. parade that fol
lowed?
"Hornys" smokers and Punch and 
Judy shows?
The course in Applied Indigestion
givon in tho old boanory in tho brick 
shop?
Doc E8querre and his calories?
Fuzzy Hyman", tho Bulgarian umplre? .
Tho oloctrlcals' inspection trip to 
Niagara?
Tho thrilling rescuo of Louis Featherstono from the Icy rapids of the Ni
agara Rivor by "Djuko Garabldi?
The little Soph party held for the 
boneflt of tho Plebes In the basement 
of tho Arts Theater, and the little 
skit entitled Who Blackened the 
Door-keeper's Eyes"?
Tho Shanty, better known as the 
Building Bureau?
The Atlantic Gardens?
The football training camp at Camp 
Louise Carnegie?
Who said, O,ITSNOJUSE?
Peerades to Oakland and down 
town?
The first time the architects broke 
out with canes?
The trips made by the miners and 
civils to Camp Louise Carnegie?
The Arts School pageant on Foun
ders Day, 1912?
When the students went to see 
Billy Sunday work out?
When Abbeys closed after "Duke 
hit the "trail"?
The funeral ceremony for J. Palonius Firm of the Arts School?
The "aviation" training given the 
Plebes via the blanket tossing route?
When the Hydraulics Lab slid over
tho hill?
Doctor Knox trying to deliver a lec
ture while sober?
Tho midnight theater parties at the 
Gayoty?
Professor Follows fish stories?
Coaches Ramsdale, Cousins, Marks, 
and Walker?
Old "Breakage Fee?
"Dad Whytes smile and how he 
pulled you through Machine Shop?
The Dorset and McCartlieys?
That bunch of rough-neck Plebes of 
1915?
When "Horny" was made "King of 
Revels?
The old wood pile for the bonfire?
The Muddy Trail?
Friday night prayer meeting at 
Abbeys?
Eddys usual headache?
The old Norse room at the Fort 
Pitt?
When the Pitt sign spelled Tech?
The first hatchet burying after a 
rough afternoon?
The cider and hot-dogs?
The 15-16 class fight in the M. M. 
Tennis Court?
The time the Dorm girls borrowed 
a fraternity Bull-dog for a Halloween 
Party?
The Saratoga Lunch parties?
The "Dutch Watermelon" parties?
Follows boot story?
"NOW WE PROJUCE THIS LINE 
TANJENTIOUSLY TO THE KROW 
IvEB BALL.
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
thinks that "it would help to make 
tho number of dances fewer. At any 
rate, we could try it, experiment with 
tho idoa, and see how it works out. 
And then, Madeline Dalo 2(1, says: 
"1 don't think thoro are too many 
dances. 1' think that'ono a woolc iw 
perfectly all right, and a good insti
tution bocauso thoy work up school 
spirit.
No doubt thoro are a groat many 
girls and men who think as Miss 
Dalo. if thoro are, 1' wish you would 
talk the thing up and advance your 
reasons to mo.
Cy Hoonniger '25, says:
There are so many small dnncos 
now that they have become more or 
less of a nuisance, and most students 
have lost interest in them. I think 
they should be limited to two a 
month, this to be controlled by the 
social committee of the Student 
Council.
Jimmie Kuight, Engineer '26, says: 
I really think the number of 
dances should be limited, that is, the
week-end dances, but I think we 
should have at least one tea dance 
a week, for it is at these affairs that 
one gets to know Carnegie people. 
Also, I think the dances we do have 
in the Union should be strictly Tech, 
with the registration card law well 
enforced.
"Peto Rygg, from tho Colloge of 
Fine Arts, says:
I think wo should make them 
fowor, blggor and more interesting. 
Thoro should bo not less than two 
por month, and I think Friday night 
Is tho best night to havo thom, and 
1 o'clock a good timo to quit and go 
homo. We should also have at least 
ono tea dunce a week.
Midge Matter, Junior Engineer, 
says:
"There are too many social activi
ties, but I think an investigation 
should be made of the number of or
ganizations that rate dances, and 
then a certain number per month set 
after the dope has been obtained. 1 
think there are too many organiza
tions to limit the number of dances 
to two per month.
Lets argue well about this matter
and see what happens about it next 
year !
CAMPUS WEEK PLANS
FEATURE INNOVATIONS
Continued From Page One;) 
citers to merriment during the three 
days. He and his nomads of the 
campus havo several schemes afoot 
which will add zest and uncertainty 
to life around Curnogle.
Tho visitations ol tho group will 
bo' unexpected, and their attentions 
wo to bo turned in the direction in 
which they will be most effective for 
producing excitement. Alumni are 
warned to keep a sharp lookout for 
Sam Dyke and his playfellows and to 
be prepared for any event when in 
their proximity.
THE DICKENS YOU DONT
Mary: Did you see Oliver Twist,
auutv ?
Aunty: Hush, child, you know I
never attend those modern dances. 
Pitt Panther.
Shortly after Campus Week a sec
ond edition of the Carnegie Song 
Book will probably appear. The first 
edition was disposed of in two days 
and there are still many who are 
very desirous of having a copy.
The alumni were given the pref
erence and their orders were the 
first to be taken care of. The num
ber of these orders, however, was 
exceedingly small, and was probably 
due more to neglect on the part of 
the alumni than to anything else.
It is unnecessary to relate how 
the words of praise from all quarters 
regarding this book.
Alumni orders will be received at 
any time, to be taken care of by a 
second edition which will be deliv
ered tli< lalter part of May.
Carnegie Alumni may be assured 
of a copy of the Carnegie Song 
Book by sending ONE DOLLAR and 
TEN CENTS to A. E. KROGH, BOX 
63, Carnegie Tech Post Office, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
When you come on the campus, be 
sure that you register at the booth 
provided for the purpose. There you 
will get a badge that will let us know 
who you are and what year you are.
Dont depend that you will get your 
ticket as soon as you come here, be
cause there will be several hundred 
jind likely more than a thousand of 
you, but order your show and lunch
eon tickets early and by mail. Then 
there will be no disappointments.
We know this is old stuff and prob
ably useless, but just let us remind 
you that over three hundred last min
ute guests had to be accommodated 
in a side room at the last luncheon, 
and theater tickets are none too 
plentiful.
The Blue Bandana to 
Be Campus Week Play
Performance for Alumni Will 
be on Saturday Night
MASK AND WIG CLUB 
WILL BE AT SCHENLEY
Startling scenic effects and elabo
rate costume designs are to be found 
in abundance in the current Mask and 
Wig production, Thats That! which 
will appear at the Schenley Theater, 
April 0th and 10th.
Huge books which open at will, pro
vide the setting for the first "special
tythe scene is a library? and at 
the book racks, Jack and Jill of child
hood days are disclosed; of course 
they come to life as the clock strikes 
twelve and open the books from which 
such personalities as Scaramouche 
and the Lost Lady and many others 
emerge.
And something should be said of 
the Mali Jong game which opens tho 
second actand there are never more 
than two acts in any Mask and Wig 
performance. This set is in ivory, 
black and gilt with Chinese red fur
nishings, while at the back of the 
stage appears a large Mali Jong box 
between the large ivory columns. On 
either side of the columns are large 
transparent curtains, decorated with 
Chinese designs in silhouette..
The plot of the play has largely to 
do with two fellows and a girl, by 
name Tom, Dick and I-Iarriet, a trio 
always in trouble, but then the plot is 
never allowed to interfere with well 
provided opportunities for Morgans 
strenuous danjees and Charles Gil
pins music.
With all the finishing touches re
sulting from their final week of re
hearsals at the Quince street club
house, the boys in the show are ready 
to maintain the reputation of Mask 
and Wig in this, its 3Gth annual pro
duction. "Thats-That! is produced 
by a committee of old Mask and Wig 
men.
CAMPUS QUEEN PRIMARIES
TO BE HELD TODAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
Jacksoi, Florence Johnston, Louise 
McGinnis, Grace Moore, DoroGhy 
Reniclc, Eleanor Reismeyer, Virginia 
Seibert, Gladys Sleppy, Dorothy 
Steele, Mary Louise Stotzbach, Clara 
Waldeck, Margaret Carnes, Bertha 
Gerber, Lillian Greenawalt, Blanche 
Humphrey, Josephine Soisson, Vic
toria Weedy, Eleanor Wilt, Martha 
Zimmerman, Mary Heilig, Mary 
Hobbs, Sarah Karstetter, Sarah Lee, 
Dorothy Chalmers, Leah ,Rothman, 
Anne Stuffle, Majorie Cook, Besta 
Culler, Edna Davis, Lois Kelinger, 
Margaret McClannahan, Orpha McGairvey, Doris Myers, Virginia Pope. 
Louise Porter, Grace Sheriff, DorcAll of the Alumni who have not read 
the front page article concerning the 
Campus Week play will Dlease do so 
now!
There is no particular merit in the 
article itself, bUt the idea is quite 
plain, and in simple words, there is to 
be a play on Alumni Night at the 
Schenley Theater, and the name of\ 
that play is "The Blue Bandana, 
written by Mr. Hubert Osborne.
Alumni Night is the big event for . 
all grads, and it is the final event of 
Campus Week, coming Saturday, May 
17. The tickets for the performance 
may be obtained through the Alumni 
office by mail, and the orders are be
ing taken now. It is suggested that 
all checks be made payable to Mr. G. 
L. Tilbrook, and that the number of 
tickets desired be stated early in the 
season, for the seating capacity of the 
theater is limited.
The May issue of the Alumnus 
will contain a big article on the play, 
and it will give all of the details which 
the Tartan cannot publish at this' 
time.
Send your check now. Assessment  
$1.00. Add 15 cents to cover mailing 
and insuring delivery.
thy Weson, Margaret Winsteln, 
Grace Adams, Margaret Coombs, Jo
sephine Gibson, Marjorie Heck, Evaline Helman, Florence Hill, Margaret 
Johnston, Bertha Kendall, Laura Lew
is, Frances McClymonds, Evelyn 
Toot, Blair 1 Jessop, Jene Markell, 
Catherine Myers,  Margaret Martin, 
Mildred Able, Louise Grove, Ella 
Wagner.
College of Fine ArtsGeorgia Ahrents, Mary Burgwin, Mary Fox, Jean 
Frank, Gretchen Hoffman,. Ruth Kauf
man, Dorothy Kendall, Mildred Lucas, 
Ethel Miller, Cora Pitcairn, Ruth 
Thomas, Margaret Vallowe, Ellen 
Lowe, Margaret Ripley, Dorothy 
Schell, Mary Skurlcay, Ruth Bord, 
Sarah Caplan, Lydia Heller, Kath
erine Hessler, Jane Howard, Martha 
Hutson, Helen Johnson, Eleanor 
Meckelnberg, Bertha Ohrman, Rosalyn Scott, Jeanette Stpathholt, Louise 
Colebrook, Elsa Griesser.
Here's the whole works! Do your 
stuff!
SIXTEEN GRAPHIKERS TO
TAKE INSPECTION TRIP
(Continued From Page One.) 
Morrison Cafeteria. Edwin H. Stuart, 
Pittsburgh typographer, was the 
speaker and kept the printers laugh
ing continually with his steady flow 
of humor. The dinner was known as 
the Graphica Training Banquet, the 
purpose of which was to furnish pre
liminary training to the tripsters for 
the various banquets which have been 
promised them in the cities to be vis
ited.
This cap stays put!
Other caps get lost but the new Williams 
Hinge-Cap stays where you want it. Truly, 
thats an improvement.
Like the cap, the shaving cream in the 
Williams tube is a big improvement, too. For 
Williams lather is heavier and faster-working. 
It holds the water in, so that your beard is 
softened sooner. And the lather lubricates. The 
razor fairly glides over your skin! Because of a 
soothing ingredient in Williams you can 'shave 
daily yet always have a smooth and well-caredfor face. Williams is pure, natural-white cream. 
Absolutely without coloring matter. Buy it, try 
itwith the new Hinge-Cap!WilliamsShaving Cream
The J. B. Williams Company, Glastonbury, Conn.
