'7
i tTODAY AT 11:45
 I
! CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL !
MEN'S MUSICAL CLUBS 
HOME CONCERT 
FKIDAY, APRIL 13
VOL. XVII. NO. 27CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF'TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAViEDNESOAY, APRIL II, 1923
VAUDEVILLE IS 
ON PROGRAM 
AT ASSEMBLY
THREE EUROPEAN TOURS 
OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS
DURING THIS SUMMEREntertainers at Musical Club Finale
TICKETS FOR NEW PLAY 
SEVENTEEN" MAY BE
SECURED FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Dummy Szold and Company 
Will Present a Short Bur
lesque The Rover Boys in 
Pittsburgh
Three tours to Europe, especially 
organized for American studetits un-! 
der the auspices of the Institute of 
International Education, will be made 
during the summer of 1923, each tour j 
costing seven hundred and twenty 
dollars. Further information concern
ing these tours can be obtained at 
Dean Tarbells office.
_____ CONTENTS OF NEW
WILL USE NEW SONGS SONG BOOK LISTED
The assembly today, the last of 
the year is to be short, not more 
than one hour long, but in that hour 
there is going to be presented as 
peppy a program as we have had this 
year.
 Music for the assembly will be fur
nished by the Tartans, and by Pat 
Murphy, and Louis Turcotte of tho 
Glee Club. The two men will sing 
four of the new Carnegie songs, 
Loves Waltz, Hail to Carnegie, Hail 
Carnegie and Carnegie Tech and no 
doubt their rendition of the songs 
will bring out the real spirit in them.
Dummy Szold of the Drama Depart
ment, is busy arranging a short vau
deville program which shouldi give 
some indication of what we can ex
pect at the Campus Week vaudeville 
show.
In regard to the show, it should 
be sufficient to say the cast includes 
Mary Brown, Jack Burns and Dummy 
Szold. The play is a burlesque, the 
Rover Boys in Pittsburgh.
In orter that the student body may 
become acquainted; with the new 
song the Song Book Committee has 
released the words of two o the 
songs to be sung at todays assem
bly.
The first song will be Hail Carne
gie, written by Wayne Koppes, a 
Sophomore in Arts and/ arranged by 
Matt Frey. The verse follows:
Were a lot of studious students from 
the school that Andy made, 
And it takes a lot of sunshine to 
keep us in the shade.
We love our Alma Mater, evey lass 
and lad!
Oh! We sing and whistle, our flowers 
the thistle, our colors are the 
plaid.
CHORUS
Hail Carnogie, Dear Carnegie Tech,' 
Of all the schools the best in north 
or south or east or west,
We love youTech!
. Your name with laurels we bedeck 
as we sing the praises of Car
negie Tech.
(Continued on Page Three.)
Book Will Consist of Carnegie 
Tech Work Both in 
Words and Music
Alfred Johnson, chairman of the 
Song Book Committee has announced 
the make-up of the new song book 
in regards to the number of songs, 
their names and their authors. The 
book will consist almost exclusively 
of Carnegie Tech work, both in the 
words and in the music; it was only 
in a. few cases that the words were; 
arranged to the tunes of some of the 
old popular melodies. Both the new 
-and old Alma Mater will appear.
The following songs will make up 
the new book:
. Carnegie Tech, music by J. M. 
Hosdowicli, melody by Layalee.
Hail Carnegie, music and words 
by Wayne Koppes.
Hail to Carnegie, words and mu
sic by Lenore Davies.
"Loves Waltz, words by L. Par* 
quin, music by Matt Frey.
"Sing Praise to Alma Mater, words 
and music by Lloyd F. Wenninger.
Fight for the Glory of Carnegie, 
words and music by Robert Schmertz.
"Si McNadd, words by T. S. Repplier, music by K. T. Milne.
"Hail C. I. T., words and music 
by J. Stanton Lutton.
Hail Carnegie, words by Mrs. A. 
A. Hammersclilag, adapted to Auld 
Lang Syne.
"Amici, anonymous.
The Glory of the Plaid, words by 
T. S. Repplier, music by Robt. W. 
Schlumpf.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Installation of Delta 
Tau Delta Held Sat,
Tau Gamma Phi Becomes 
Delta Beta Chapter
Tau Gamma Phi was officially in
stalled as the Delta Beta chapter of 
Delta Tau Delta last Saturday after
noon. The work was performed un
der the direction of Norman McCleod, 
and the Pittsburgh Alumni of Delta 
Tau Delta in the Carnegie Union.
Immediately following the installa
tion a banquet was given by the Pitts
burgh Alumni Association of Delta 
Tau Delta at the Hotel Schenley in 
honor of the new chapter. A. Bruce 
Bielaski, president of Delta Tau Delta 
presented Delta Beta chapter with 
their charter and extended sincere 
congratulations in behalf of Delta Tau 
Delta.
Friday evening, preceding the in
stallation, a formal dance was held 
at the Rittenhouse. Nearly all local 
Delts, as well as representatives from 
many of the neighboring Delta Tau 
Delta chapters, and representatives 
from all Carnegie fraternities and 
sororities made the affair the un
equaled success that it was.
Open house at the Chapter House, 
5064 Forbes street, was held Sunday 
afternoon, and a tea was given from 
three to six, for the friends of the 
fraternity.
(Continued on Page Four.)
MIDWEST CLUB MEMBERS 
TO WEAR RECOGNITION PIN
The Midwest Club had. a luncheon 
and meeting last Saturday afternoon 
at the King Edward Dining Room. 
After the meal had been served 
some discussion arose and a final 
decision was made with regard to 
the club p'ins. As finally decided, 
they are to be of a rectangular shape 
with gold letters on black enamel.
' The pins have now been ordered and 
will soon appear on the campus.
Due to the resignation of the club 
secretary L. Hertzman of Illinois, an 
election was held and Miss Dee of 
Nebraska, selected for the position.
Saturday, April 21, the club will 
hold a hike to some of the outlying 
heights. A definite time and place 
of meeting will be announced on the 
bulletin boards next week. A Chow 
Committee has been appointed.
It was also decided at this meet
ing that the club is to give a lunch
eon to all students and visiting alum
ni during Campus Week. More 
definite arrangements will be pub
lished later.
R. 0. T. C. CONTEMPLATES 
ANNUAL MILITARY BALL
The students who are enrolled in 
the R. O. T. C. aro planning a Mili
tary Ball. Under the supervision of 
Colonel Cunningham, the committee 
is trying to get the attitude of the 
students on such a matter. This ball, 
would be for the whole school, and 
would be military only insofar as the 
name and hosts are concerned. Con
trary to the custom, the men of the 
R. O. T. C. would not wear uniforms 
at the function, as there have been 
no uniforms issued which would be 
suitable, but it would be a semi-formal 
affair. The customary grand march, 
and such other features of the real 
Military Ball will be held, and it is 
hoped that the students will voice 
favorable opinions on this matter.
The proceeds of such a ball would 
go to the Thistle pictures, and would 
do away with the individual taxing 
method which is now in use. Money 
which is collected in class would serve 
as initial payment on the ball ticket. 
It is suggested, by the committee, 
that anyone who has any ideas on 
the subject make a point to give them 
to the officers of the R. O. T. C., for 
ideas are necessary in order that the 
dance may be put on. Talk it up, 
and speak to the R. O. T. C. men 
about it. Are you in favor?
Student tlokets Cor tho Department 
| of Dramus production ot th play of 
i Booth Turlcington, Soventoon" will 
j ho availablo to th student body on 
Friday. Aprii 18. The tclcets aro for 
tho nights of Tuesday and Wednesday, Aprii 17 nnd 1S.
I The tiokets will he obtaliuible in 
| tlve olfico of tho Director of th Col
lego of Fine Arts.
THE COLLEGIATE IMPS, INSERT L R. TURCOTTE, W. J. REILLY, C OMEDIAN.
NEW Y. M. C. A. 
OFFICERS ARE 
TO BE ELECTED
All Carnegie Tech Y. M. C. A. 
Members Entitled to Vote. 
Ballots Will Be Mailed in 
Form of Post Cards
VOTING ENDS APRIL 21
TILBR00K BACK AFTER 
SHORT TOUR IN EUROPE
Americans, Englishmen, and other 
foreigners in France all seem to sup
port the French in their invasion of 
the Ruhr, says C. L. Tilbrook, execu
tive secretary of the Carnegie Tech 
Alumni Association, who has returned 
from a two-months trip abroad. The 
French have the utmost faith in them
selves in their attitude, says the 
Tech man, and they are quite pleased 
whenever foreigners uphold them.
The chief topics of interest in 
France are the Ruhr affair and the 
recent tennis matches between Mile. 
Lenglen and Molla Bjurstadt. When 
I was about to leave there was a great 
deal of interest in the changing at
titude of Germany, which now seems 
to desire a settlement of the Ruhr 
controversy.
Living conditions in Italy are much 
higher than in France, according to 
Mr. Tilbrook, who spent most of his 
time abroad in Paris, Marseilles, Nice, 
and parts of Italy.
In business, France is marking 
time, he says. "On account of the 
depreciated value of the franc, France 
is unable to carry on foreign trade, 
and until the franc becomes nearer its 
normal value, it is apparent that 
France will continue as she is now 
doing, taking care of herself with her 
own resources.
Nominations have been made for 
the new officers for the Student Gen
eral Cabinet of the Carnegie Tech Y. 
M. C. A. The balloting will close on 
Saturday, April 21, and the success
ful candidates made known. Those 
named oni the various positions are: 
President, H. E. Dylceman, T. N. 
Griggs, and H. H. Wilson; vice presi
dent, George Allison and F. C. Hoennenger; secretary, E. C. Frazier and 
R. D. Gill.
These nominations were made by 
a committee composed of present 
cabinet members, and may be added 
to according to the following condi
tions:
(1) Any five active members of 
this Association may make other nom
inations for any or all offices by no
tifying the Y office.
(2) Names of such nominees must 
bo in the Y office not later than April 
14.
All members of the Carnegie Tech 
Y. M. C. A. are entitled to one vote. 
The method of balloting will be such 
as to causo the minimum amount of 
inconvenience to tho voters. On April 
18, ballots will bo mailed in the form 
of post cards with the names of the 
candidates printed thereon. Tho re
turn card will be stamped and ad
dressed, and the only thing to ho done 
by tho voter is to mark an X after 
the man of his choice, drop the card 
in tho nearest mail box, and then 
await results. Care must bo taken 
that the ballot be mailed in time to 
reach the Y office not later than- Sat
urday. April 21.
The retiring officers of the cabinet 
art Fritz Bowers, president; Hugh 
Sprinkle, vice president; and A. C. 
Crago, secretary.
Long String of Events 
On Senior Week Program
The chairman of the Senior Week 
Committee, Mr. McCormack, reports 
that plans for tho Senior Week are 
rapidly taking form. The school 
members of the committee have been 
appointed and next week some .con
crete achievements can be reported. 
Meetings with the administration and 
the faculty have been arranged for 
the next few daj s.
As the plans now stand the week 
will be a busy one indeed, theater 
parties, luncheons, tennis matches, 
swimming parties and similar events 
on the tentative program and if only 
half of the scheduled events finally 
take place, the mighty Seniors will 
long remember the last weok spent 
at Carnegie.
APRIL 20 SET FOR 
EXHIBITION NIGHT
School to Be Opened to Public 
Who Will See Students 
at Work in Labs
Carnegie Tech Students 
Win in P. and I. Contest
Students of interior decoration at 
Carnegie Tech carried off high honors 
in two nation-wide competitions con
ducted by the Beaux Arts Institute of 
Design, New York City, according to 
the results of awards just announced. 
Both competitions were held under 
the auspices of the Interior Decora
tion department of the Institute, and 
college students from the entire coun
try submitted renditions.
Joseph Durso, of Duquesne, Pa., 
and Ronato R. Rutili, of Donora, Pa., 
were awarded 'Second Medals in the 
problem entitled "Chancel of a Small 
Gothic Church. As only three Sec
ond Medals, and no first medals were 
given by the judges in this problem, 
Carnegie Tech students distinguished 
themselves by winning two of the 
three highest awards.
In another problem,, "Examples of 
Clocks Used in Different Periods, the 
following Carnegie students' were 
awarded First Mentions, and were es
pecially commended for draftmanship 
and rendering: Walter G. Dieter, of
Erie, Pa.; Gretclien Hoffman, of Erie, 
Pa.; and William Aheam, of Grove 
City, Pa. Mentions were* also award
ed to Helen S. Johnson, of 1039 Murray Hill avenue, of this city, and Mar
garet E. Yallows, of West Palm 
Beach, Fla. All of these students are 
members of the Depaitment of Ap
plied Art. in the College of Fine Arts.
CORDOVA CLUB INVITES
STUDENTS TO EXHIBITION
Students are invited by the Cordo
va Art Club to an exhibition of paint
ings in the Beaux Arts Galleries at 
120 Stanwix street any day during 
the week of April 16-26, from 10:30 
a. m to 5 p. m. Tea will be served
from 2 to 5 every afternoon during 
that week.
Mr. McGilvary of the College of 
Fine Arts faculty, will Bpealc on Mon
day, April 16, as a guest of the 
Press Club.
Thursday of that week will be Club 
Presidents' Day and Saturday Asso
ciated Artists Day.
Mrs. Lillian G. Hennis, president of 
the club, cordially invites all stu
dents to attend this exhibit any'day 
of the week of exhibition.
On Friday evoning, April 20, tho 
Carnogie Instltuto of Technology will 
hold its annual "opon-liouse from 
seven-thirty to ton-thirty p. m. At 
that time, students of/die day and tho 
night schools will bo at work in all 
the studios, laboratories, and shops.
In tho Collego of Flno Arts, In addi
tion to tho work in tho studios, thero 
will be various exhibits of tho work 
of students of art. arohltoeturo, and 
sculpture. In tho Little Theater, the 
Department of Music and tho Depart
ment of Drama will givo a joint pro
gram consisting of a musical recital 
and a scone from "The Taming of 
the Shrew.
A program-directory, similar to that 
of last year, is being printed. Copies 
of this program will, be sent out along 
with invitation cards to alumni and 
those whose names appear in the va
rious mailing lists of the institution. 
Copies of the program-directory will 
also bo availablo for distribution on 
Exhibition Night.
The program-directory is a fourpage folder, showing the location of 
the various buildings on the campus 
and indicating the nature of the work 
being done in each room.
The purpose of the Annual Exhibi
tion Night is to furnish an oppor
tunity for visitors to acquaint them
selves with our work and to bring 
to the attention of the citizens of this 
district the wide range of technical 
subjects in which instruction is be
ing given on the Carnegie Tech 
campus.
Both day and night students are 
urged to co-operate by bringing this 
matter to the attention of their 
friends and acquaintances and urging 
them to attend. Students who desire 
invitation cards and programs to dis
tribute to their friends can obtain 
them at the office of the Registrar on 
and after Monday, April 1G. This is 
an opportunity for each student to 
make new friends for Carnegie Tech.
ELECTIONS TO 
BE GOVERNED 
BY NEW RULES
Ail Elections of Class and Divisional Offices to Be Held 
on Same Day With Nomina
tions the Preceeding Week
USE PRINTED BALLOTS
In order to croato groator uniform
ity in. school and class elections, to 
insure popular cholco of olllcors, and 
to promote moro general intorost In 
oloctions, tho voting regulations com
mittee proposos tho following regula
tions to be used in all four schools.
1. AH school and class oloctions 
shall bo conducted under supervision 
of tho rospoctlvo school senates.
2. Voting shall bo on standard 
prlntod ballots so far as possible. 
Thoso standard ballots will bo prlnt
od by tho Students Council and dis
tributed to tho socrotarlos of tho four 
senates who will in turn issuo to tho 
secretary of tho class holding oloetion 
a numbor of ballots equal to tho class 
enrollment. Ballots will bo issued boforo the olectlon and unused ballots 
must bo roturnod to tho souato socrotary.
3. Nomination of class olllcors 
shall take placo in a duly called class 
mooting. Divisional officers shall bo 
nominated In divisional assomblios. 
Ono week shall olapso botwoon nomi
nation and olcction during which timo 
tho nominations shall bo publishod In 
tho Tartan and posted on tho school 
bulletin, board. Additional nomina
tions may bo added or nominations 
withdrawn by tho nominoo any time 
previous to tho oloctlon by notifying 
chairman ol! mooting in which nomi
nations woro taken.
I. Tho annual spring oloctions for 
Prosldont Studont Council nnd Soph., 
Junior and Senior class olllcors for 
tho succeeding yoar shall bo hold on 
a date to be set by the Studont Coun
cil. Class oloctions shall not be hold 
until tho president of tho Studont 
Council lias been elected.
All clans elections shall be held on 
(Continued on Page Four.)
WILL HOLD JUNIOR 
BANQUET APRIL 21
Committee to Engage Outside 
Talent to Furnish Most 
of Entertainment
This years annual Junior Banquet 
will be hold at the Chatham Roof Gar
den on Saturday, April 21, and from 
all appearances will be 0110 of tho 
best in the history of the school if tho 
report of the committee in charge is 
to bo believed, which runs thus: 
Junior Banquet.
The date for the Junior Banquet 
lias finally boon definitely sot, and tho 
final plans aro about completed. 
First of all tho banquet this yoar is 
going to be a real live affair. The 
committee feels that the follows want 
a banquet that will long bo remem
bered. To bo remembered, it has 
been decided that tho banquet must 
liavo plenty of entertainment. For 
this reason tho dinner itself will not 
bo stressed as much as tho dancing 
and other forms of ontertalnmont. We 
can eat every day, but it is not often 
that wo liavo a chance to soo exhibi
tions of dancing and singing by protty girls. It was also thought that tho 
occasion would bo romoniborod longer 
if tho ontertalnmont woro given by 
professional Inatoad of local talont.
Tho guests for tho occasion will bo 
cliiofly from tho faculty. Thoy liavo 
beon soloctod' as 111011 of good fellow
ship, and for tholr ability to enjoy an 
ovoning with tlio studonts. Thoy are 
mon who will help to mnlco tho gettogothor a jolly ono.
Tickets aro on sale -now by mom
bors of tho commlttoo. Tlioro aro 110 
conflicting dates. Tho placo is con(Continued 011 Pago Two.)
R. 0. T, C. MEMBERSHIP 
REGULATIONS OUTLINED
METHENY, PERKINS AND
PAULY PLACE IN LE BRUN 
ARCHITECTURAL CONTEST
Through an unfortunate error in 
this paper last Wednesday, the names 
of the mon who with Mr. P. F. Simp
son, brought . honor to Carnegie 
through their work In the Le Brun 
scholarship contest were omitted.
The headline announced thfat Car
negie Architects took first, second, 
fourth and fifth places, but tho story j 
failed to mention that the winners,, 
besides Simpson, wore George Pauly,; 
James Metheny and Willard Perkin.;.
George Pauly placed second, and 
James Metheny placed fourth. In 
an architectural judgment of this 
character, the first four places aro 
tile only ones which count for hon
ors. However, Willard Perkins was 
announced as being the fifth bent 
among the contestants.
The Carnegie Tartan regrets that 
these men were not credited with 
their achievements in the last issue, 
and takes this means of publicly 
crediting these individuals.
Vi
Girls Senior Ball to Be 
Held at University Club
MUSIKERS GIVE 
HOME CONCERT 
FRIDAY NIGHT
Musical Clubs to Hold Con
cert in Carnegie Music Hall 
and Following It, a Dance 
in the Carnegie Union
SELECTIONS BY GIRLS
The Senior girls of Margaret Mor
rison and the College of Fine Arts 
will hold their annual Senior Ball on 
Saturday, April the fourteenth, at the 
University Club. This year the ball 
will be unique in that it will be in 
form of a cabaret dinner dance.
During the evening the guests will 
be entertained with novelty dances 
and stunts by professionals. The 
Collegiate Six will be the inspiration 
for dancing between dinner courses 
and during the evening.
Under Mary Marshall, as chairman, 
and Frances Burroughs, as assistant 
chairman, the plans are fast reaching 
completion. The chairmen of the sub
committees are, Ruth Barton, floor 
chairman; Betty Wright, dinner; 
Helen Schade, decorations; Lillian 
Coleman, music; Helen McConkey, fa
vors; Anne Stewart, programs; Mar
guerite Harmon and Grace Patterson, 
entertainment.
M. M. PLEBES TO ENTERTAIN
SOPHS WITH DANCE SAT. EVE.
Saturday, April 14, tho M. M, Plobes 
expect to entertain tho Sophs with 
an informal danco in tho Union from 
nine to twelve. Tho music will bo fur
nished by the Collegiate Imps.
Under the able leadership of Bar
bara White, tho class president and 
NIm Cunningham, chairman of thi> 
social committee, tho various com
mittees for the affair are doing all in 
thoir power to rnako tho affair suc
cessful and it is to bo hoped that all 
Sophomores will attend the dance.
The committee chairmen are as fol
lows: Nim Cunningham, general
chairman, May Davenport, music; 
Madeline Dale, program; Mary 
Hughes, refreshments. Chaperones 
will be Mrs. Spencer, Mrs. Weaver, 
and Miss Alexander.
Eligibility for membership In the 
II. O. T. C. Is llmltod to studonts at 
Institutions In which units aro es
tablished. Thoy must bo eltlzons of 
the United) States, H or more yours 
of ago, and tholr bodily condition 
such as to ludlcato that, they aro 
physically fit to jyorlornt military 
duty now or will bo at tho ago 11000ssary for appointment In tho Officers' 
llosorvo Corps (21. years oil age.)
It Is Lho doslro of tho War 'Dpartmont that all mombors ol' tho It. O. 
T. C. bo protected from typhoid and 
paratyphoid fevers, as woll as from 
mall pox. Vaccine Is given at tho 
Institution so as to avoid loss of valuablo time from tho limited sched
ules at the summor camps. TI10 Luklng of vaccine Is not compulsory, but 
studonts will not be permitted/ to go 
to summer camp who arc not protect
ed from tlio diseases mentioned or 
who decline to plodge themselves to 
submit to the administration of vac
cine on arrival at camp.
It is a good business proposition 
to take both typhoid and paratyphoid 
vaccine. Vaccine against these two 
(diseases lasts at least three years, 
army records show. As to small
pox vaccineyou guess,
A member of the R. O. T. C. who 
withdraws from an Institution and en
ters another where an R. O. T. C. is 
established is not. released from his 
R. O. T. C. obligation, but is simply 
transferred from one R. O. T. C. 
unit to another, members may be 
discharged from their contracts on 
proper grounds. Each case is con
sidered as an individual case. Con
tracts should not be broken lightly. 
The R. O. T. C. student receives, 
during his Freshman and Sophomore 
years, no pay in money. 1-Ie is is
sued a complete , uniform however. 
During his Junior and Senior years 
he receives the value of one rifle, 
which varies; but now, and in the 
near fuLure, it will amount to be
tween $27 andj $30 every) three 
months.
The Mens Musical Clubs will givo 
tlieir annual Home Concert this year 
at tho Carnegie Music Hall on Friday 
ovoning of this woek at eight oclock 
sharp. Because it comes on Friday 
tlio thirteenth it promises to be the 
best concert of the clubs.
The clubs have taken a goodly num
ber of trips this year and have cov
ered themselves with glory and cre
ated a good Impression of Carnegie 
Toch in every concert. These trips 
covered Ohio, Western Pennsylvania 
and New York. It was rumored that 
people who hoard them said that they 
were equal to any collego musical 
clubs thoy hoard this season.
Many novel features will be includ
ed in the program. W. Y. Reilly nnd 
Wob Cunningham will give a touch 
of comedy, S. E. Kovach and S. H.  
Blackmore musical solos, and tho 
Girls',Glee Club will furnish all the 
latest styles and give tho over pres
ent stags a chance to got a partner 
for tho hop which is to be hold im
mediately after tho concert in the 
Union. The Collegiate Imps will fur
nish the unrestrained rythip and tho 
whole affair will absolutely last until 
after tho usual zero hour, ton minutes 
to twelve. Tho clubs liavo tralnod 
until they know that they aro ready 
to give a concert that will oqual any 
given in the past. Thoy will bo aid
ed by a quartette from tho Gloo Club, 
an unusually woll drlllod orchestra 
from tho Mandolin Club, and the 
Girls Gleo Club will givo two or throo 
charming numbors. Ono ol! the 
strongest points In the program Is Its 
range for it goes from comedy lo trag
edy and back to good music In tho 
twinkle of an oyo which assures all a 
pleasant ovoning of ontertalnmont.
Preliminary tickets have boon on 
sale for tho past, two wooku nn<l cun 
bo oxchangod for regular tickets in 
the Contral Building until Friday. 
There liavo boon a numbor of fra
ternities and organizations, who have 
already made reservations and' so 
thoy aro going fast.. Dont forgot tho 
danco In tho Union that Is to follow 
tho ooncort. It will last until two 
In the morning.
Council President 
To Be Elected Soon
T. N. Griggs Science Candi
dateIndustries-Arts Tie
The oloctlon of candidates for 
president ol! tho Studont Council took 
placo In tho various colleges last 
Woek, but at present the following 
men must bo voted on. again as l.hoy 
rocolved no majority in their respec
tive collogos: Frank Fore and Al'
Schllllngor, Industries; Donald Muwhlnnoy and Teasdale Barney, Col
logo of Fine Arts. T. N; Griggs was 
tlio only ram 1 nee from Science, and 
was elected unanimously.
The representatives ol! Industries 
arifli Arts will probably bo determined 
this week, and if they aro tlio names 
of the men selected from tho three 
colleges will bo handed to tho Stu
dent Council and it will choose the 
man who, in Its opinion, is host fitted 
l'or the position. This choice will be 
made not later than the third week 
in May and the new president will 
assume his duties two weeks previ
ous to Commencement Week.
The duties of the president are to 
preside at all meetings when pres
ent; lie shall have power to call 
special meetings with the authoriza
tion of the Executive Committee; ho 
shall preside at ail duly? authorized 
general assemblies of the entire stu
dent body, and shall perform other 
duties usually associated with this 
office. He shall further preserve and 
be responsible for all records otf the 
council, until tho new council organi
ses in tiie spring. He shall further 
see that the first meeting of the new 
council is held with all possible dis
patch.
Hon. Wm. (Himself) Reilly to Sing at 
Concert of Carnegie Canary Troupe
By T. S. Ropplier.
(Suit filed aoalnat Puppet April 1.)
It has always beon a question In 
the minds of many is to why tho 
Musical Clubs gave tholr final effort 
to wreck thenervos of tholr audleoco 
tho title of "Home" Concert. Woll 
do we remember that soul-stirring 
ballad, Horne, Sweet Home, We 
fall to get the connection! Possibly 
its because when tho concert starts 
everybody wishes they wore home 
we dunno.
Limitation of Armament,
At any rate, I am instructed to say 
that the Grand Caterwall will re
sound on the evening of Friday, the 
13thwhich speaks for itself. An 
armed guard will be stationed at the
palatial d'oors of the Carnogie Music 
I-fall Lo search all those rash enough 
Lo enter. Tlio commlttco wishes It 
apodal!y known lliat thla In not 2 
(jrudfle fight. If you have anyLhlng 
against any member of the Canary 
Troupo, dont take It out 011 him 
hereho may have to use the same 
shirt at the Senior Ball. No ono 
carrying anything larger than; a cantaloupe. will be allowed In the bal
cony arid thosei in the gallery aro 
asked to have a hearl! We waB 
young onct, ourselves.
Not a Moving Pioture.
In an interview with Mr. Reilly, 
the great man said In part: In an
swer to your question as to who will 
(Continued on Page Three)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1923
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Hoard.___________
Entered In the Postofllce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter._______
VICTOR H. STItOMQUIST ...................................................................... Bdltor-ln-Chlef
TelephoneHlland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 5)211
BDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 143
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................................... Associate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON .......................................................................................... Associate Editor
H. F. DIETER...................................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK S. DOWNES................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
FRED C. SMITH......................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHlland 8118-J
FRED T. PHELPS.................................................................................................Nows Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
H. H. WILSON....................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TolophonoHazel 9350
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
R. B. KELLER................................................................................,..........Exchange Editor
ID. P. COUSE, JR............................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. RI3PPLIEII........................................................................................... Special Writer
W. B. CUNNINGHAM ................................................................... Advertising Manager
TolophonoSchonloy 9211
J. C. MAJOR  ...................................................................................... Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchonloy 9102 
' EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS :
Eleanor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, 
L. D. Richards, A. F. Andrews, B. DoMare, E. 0. Eigle, A. E. Krogh, I. H. 
Isaacs, R. G. Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rossbaclc.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudlg, D. Moskovltz, J. W. 
Metro, P. W. Rollly, II. Gibson, W. A. Jucko, P. Edio, R. L. Sandroclc, B. 
Broudy, H. Urschel.
Tho Edltor-ln-Chlof Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All nows items must be In tho Btudent 
postofflce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OfllceRoom G-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00._____________________________
THE NEW CONSTITUTION
The new constitution, which by its grant of powers, combines 
the Student Council with the Student Activities Board, abolishing 
the latter institution, represents the result oil three years effort to 
bring about this union of the two governing bodies. As printed in 
the pages ol! the CARNEGIE TARTAN fhst week, the constitution 
shows the result oi! eareul and painstaking work on the part of the 
committee which drew up its articles, and this body is to be com
mended for the thorough manner in which they attacked the problem, 
presenting for approval of the student body the structure of an or
ganization which is feasible and practical.
While the constitution as a whole is well drawn up, it contains 
several weaknesses which should be ironed out before the instrument 
is presented to the student body for a. vote of acceptance. The first 
and most obvious of these lies in the fact that the Colleges of Engi
neering and of Industries are represented on the new Council with 
four voting members each, while the Margaret Morrison College and 
College of Fine Arts oach have five voting members. Equality of 
representation is desirable because it is logical in this case, it is ob
viously more just, and it will prevent much needless questioning in 
later years when this constitution will bo attacked and amended as 
conditions at Carnegio change and changes in government become 
necessary. The argument for fivo representatives from Margaret 
Morrison College seems to bo that the secretarys duties aro onerous, 
and that therefore a fifth girl, should bo selected for this position, yet 
they would be just as onerous to her as to ono of the four other rep
resentatives. If an extra member is desired as secretary, slio should 
bo non-voting, as are the assistant secretarios, or else ono of tho four 
regular representativos of Margaret Morrison should bo chosen for 
tliisposition.
Tho fifth representativo from Arts is necessary, it is stated, to 
repieseut tho girls from that,Collogo on the Council. Doubtless the 
Arts girls deserve recognition. But would it not be ;just as feasible 
to maleo ono of the representativos corresponding to thoso of the 
other schools a girl, instoad of having Arts represented by four men 
and an extra girl? The prosidoulis of tho division senal.es, as well 
as tho Senior class presidents, who automatically are Council mem
bers, are traditionally men studonts, therefore, the logical course 
which at once suggests itself is to malte the Senate treasurer in Arts 
a girl, thus giving Arts two girl representatives, as the Senate treas
urer is held over as Senior representativo.
A. second well-grounded objection arises to paragraph II, Sec
tion !), o.l! A.rtide V, which gives the Council power  to control and 
supervise all uoiMithlotio activities with power to talco such action 
in regard to those activities as is NOT specified in this Constitution 
or in the I'-.v haws. A blanket grant of power such as this, :is abso
lutely undemocratic, and in the hands ol! an indiscreet or autocratic 
Council, could work, undue hardships upon school, organizations, with 
only slight chance for redress. No matter whether or not this clause 
appears in the present constitution of the Council or of tho Activi
ties Board, it should bo deleted as unnecessary, and contrary to the 
ideals upon which student government at Carnegie is founded.
The third weakness apparent in tho Constitution is one of omis
sion rather than of commission, and grows out of the fact that no 
provision is made for representation, either directly on the Council 
or on its committees, oi! the non-athletic activities controlled by, the 
Council. During the school year 1921-1922 the Student Activities 
Board paid out to the CARNEGIE TARTAN, to the Shilling, the Mens 
Musical Clubs, the Girls Glee Club, and the Band sums aggregating 
about seven thousand dollars. The Council, under its new powers, 
will handle tiese moneys in the future, yet make no provision to give 
the organizations concerned a voice in the disposition of the funds. 
Direct representation on the Council is impracticable and undesira
ble, but a. financial committee and committee on organizations operat
ing on a budget should have representatives of these organizations as 
members with/voting power. This is all the more necessary, because 
during the past few years the Council and Activities Board have been 
composed of members practically none of whom have had actual ex
perience with the organizations concerned, and the Board was there
fore, unable to judge of their needs at first hand.
These comprise the most glaring faults of the new Constitution, 
and with these adjusted, adoption by the student body should follow 
speedily.
A MAN WHO WAS A MAN
I am always my first consideration has come to be such a gen
eral rule of life, that when one does consider others, special mention 
is surely duo. If .1 make it a rule of my life to servo others ahead of 
myself, my foot will bo stamped upon, and advantages taken of my 
kindness. For proof, ono has only to look into the lives of ninetenths of us, and it will bo seen.
Even though life, as it is lived, seems to say,  Hurrah for me, 
it is not right. Service to others is tho only thing in life that really 
counts. A lifo without this becomes insignificant when placed along
side of ono which has really served others. This, even more so, when 
after that service is rendered, recognition is refused on the grounds 
that he has only done his duty. It becomes even greater if, when 
others helped in performing that duty, rewards aro refused unless all 
those who helped are likewise rewarded.
Eastman M. Sanborn, 14, Night Engineering Special, died in 
."France, received tho following recommendation:
For extraordinary heroism in tho Battle of the Argonne Forest, 
France, September 29, 1918, north of the Boise do Benge, near the 
town of Montfaucon. While leading Company A, 316th Infantry, in 
an attack upon the enemy, under extremely heavy machine-gun and 
shell fire.. Lieutenant Sanborn was painfully wounded; he did not 
consider himself, but his duty only, and remained with his men, who 
were suffering heavy losses. The average officer would have passed 
on the command, and gone to the rear for medical aid. In a short 
time Lieutenant Sanborn received a second and a third wound, but 
entirely disregarding himself, lie retained command for some time 
longer, and only when the loss of blood began to weaken him so much 
that he was unable to perform his \duty to his men, did he pass tk'
FELLOWSHIPS IN 
MINING OFFEREDROAMINSNORMAN THOMAS 
ATM. M. ASSEMBLY
Will Be Given By Advisory 
Board in Conjunction With 
Mining Department
Tho co-operative Mining Cpurses of 
Carnegie offer four fellowships in 
Mining Research, and Lwo in Teach
ing and Research, in Co-operation 
with the Pittsburgh Experiment Sta
tion of tho United States Bureau of 
Mine and an advisory board of mine 
operators and engineers. These fel
lowships, 'for the coming year, are 
open to graduates of universities and 
technical schools who are properly 
qualified to undertake research In
vestigations.
The Hi 11 man Coal and Coke Com
pany and tho Mine Safety Appliance 
Company are personally financing two 
of thoso fellowships. The subject of 
the problem of the Hillman Coal <& 
Coke Company will be "Methods of 
Increasing the Percentage of Lump 
Coal in Lho Coal Mining Industry." 
The problem, of tlio Mine Safety Ap
pliance Company will bo "A Study 
of tho adaptability of Carbon Monox
ide Gas masks for Fighting Mine 
, Fires.
Tho subjects from the other four 
problems will bo chosen from tho 
following topics: Gealogy of Coal,''
"Acid Mlno Waters," Coal Wash
ing," "Utilization of Coal," Coal 
Storage and Mine Explosions.
Tho value of each fellowship is 
$750 poil year of ten months begin
ning September 1, 1923. The time of 
the teaching fellow will be divided 
between teaching in the Mining De
partment and assigned duties in they 
Experiment Station of tlio Bureau 
of Mines. The research fellow will 
devote his entire time to assigned 
work in the Experiment Station.
Each manuscript written by tiie re
search fellow will be jointly pub
lished by the Bureau of Mines, Car
negie Tech and an Advisory Board of 
Mine Operators and Engineers.
Applications are due not later 
than June 1, 1923, and should be ad
dressed to Supervisor, Co-operative 
Mining Courses, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
In the bread line at the Commons, 
Roamer heard someone remark on 
reading the last number of the Pup
pet: "For-----------! Another wet num
ber."
The person1 who made that remark 
in no way appeared to be of a typo 
who despised having anyone rub in 
the fact that the United States was 
(or should be) dry but the absence 
of a red nose and the lack of that 
longing look for liquor decided for 
Roamer that the fellow making the 
remark was none other than the av
erage Carnegie student. Further-, 
more his remark put words to Roam- [ 
er's thoughts at that time.
Blair Jessop Elected as M. M. 
Candidate For Pres, of 
Student Council
Musical Clubs End 
Season Next Friday
Concerts Given on Trips Win 
Favorable Comment
Tlio 1923 season ot the Mens Mu
sical Clubs has boon favorably com
mented upon by the newspapers in 
tho various places hi which concerts 
wore given. Soiiio of tho larger cities 
such as Cleveland, Corry, Erie nnd 
Buffalo were introduced to a new 
typo of Musical Clubs when thoy 
heard Carnogie Tech. Many of the 
aurlloncos were hoard to say that tho 
boys seemed to liavo more pop and 
ginger coming from a technical school 
than those boys from just a collogo. 
A. few following extracts from the 
press of tho cities where tho concerts 
woro given will show what thoy 
thought of tho elubs.
Olovolnnd flays that tho Carnegie 
songs and pieces woro full of snap 
and poi1) and liolpod to make tho con
cert ono that Impressed itself on tho 
minds of all the mombors ol! tho audl('iico. Many favorable comments woro 
received at tho Radio Broadcasting 
(Station WJAX In Cleveland on tho 
excellent playing by the orchestra of 
tho Mandolin Club.
Erie reported that llio elubs scored 
a success especially the soloists, Gumbert, Murphy and Blackmoro. Al
though. tho Mandolin Club seemed tho 
moro popular, tho Glee Clubs was the 
better drilled. In nil tho program 
was woll rounded out and left everyTho point Is this: One goes to the
vaudevillehalf the program deals 
with, liquor, corn mash and stills. 
Raisins, revenue officers and a hun
dred and one thirst suggestive, jokes 
are sprung by a comedian on the 
stage. One picks up the dailyi paper 
and reads about a dry raid or alco
holic poisoningwhy theyre even 
writing essays on. Prohibition. In 
other words tho PUBLIC IS FED UP 
on liquor stories and liquor jokes. 
Even, the mention of "liquor in this 
column migit be the straw that 
broke the camels hack for a great 
many readers.
Why not go back to tlio days be
fore Volstead or ahead far enough to 
get away from this wet" atmosphere 
and enjoy some jokes that don't have 
to be illustrated with a coil of cop
per pipe or a strawberry nose. PUP
PET readers certainly would' appre
ciate Jt if "Old Man Volstead" were 
more distantly connected with Pup
pet than he is at present.
But 'for a' thatPuppet Editors 
the last number was a winner. Youre 
darn tootin.
ROAMER.
WILL HOLD JUNIOR
BANQUET APRIL 21
(Continued From Page One.) 
trally located so that everyone ought 
to be able to get there. Mid-semester 
examinations will also be over, and 
everyones mind will be free from 
cares.
The tickets are being sold in the 
different schools by members of the 
committee. The price is very reason
able, and far exceeds the value of the 
good time that will be had. Every 
junnior that can scrape together two 
dollars and a half will be expected to 
be present. The committee consists 
of Ind., Sam Dyke, chairman, F. M. 
Gore; Arts, Brace, Lowstuter; Sci
ence, C. H; Cooley, Doug. Sclioerke.
Miss Helen Watt, of the Personnel 
Bureau, has resigned to accept a po
sition as secretary to the president of 
the Union National Bank, Pittsburgh.
Drunk (peering into berth in which 
the fair occupant is asleep): Sluiy,
one of you two young ladles will have 
to got out of my berth.The Tulane 
Hullabaloo.
ono favorably impressed.
Buffalo wrote that the clubs wore 
excellent and the playing of the Jazz 
Orchestra: the host that has beon 
heard from Colloge Musical Clubs in 
Buffalo in lato years.
Ono can see that just such com
ments will in a few years help to 
bring Oarnoglo Toch before the eyes 
of tho public not only os a Tochnical 
School but a colloge that can turn out 
men who aro versatile hud capable 
of doing big work.
At tho concert on Friday the thir
teenth tho audience will bo given se
lections by .lack Willard, manager of 
tho elubs in 1919, Ohio Newman and 
Karl Snyder. With sudi entertain
ers on the program together with the 
elubs themselves a vory entertaining 
evening is in store for those who at
tend.
Student Calendar
THURSDAY, APRIL 12
Chapel..........................................................................12 -.50, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, APRIL 13 
Musical Clubs Home Concert and Dance....8:00, Carnegie Music Hall 
SATURDAY, APRIL 14
Senior BallGirls..................................................6:30, University Club
DanceM. M. C. C. Plebe to Soph.......................9 -.00, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, APRIL 15
Recital by Department of Music.................................8:15, Arts Theater
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, MONDAY, TUESDAY 
AND WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 12,13,16, 17 AND 18
DramaSeventeen,5 by Booth Tarkington...........8:15, Arts Theater
NOTE:Student nights are Tuesday and Wednesday,
April 17 and 18, and tickets will be available at Direc
tors Office, College of .Fine Arts, on Friday, April 13.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11
General Student Assembly...........................11:45, Carnegie Music Hall
FRIDAY, APRIL 20
StagDorm Stag................................................7:30, Scobell Club Room
SATURDAY, APRIL 21 
BanquetMens Junior Banquet (tentative)
SUNDAY, APRIL 22
ConcertSymphony Concert by Department, of Music....,..............
.........................................................*..........8:15, Carnegie Music Hall
command and start for the roar, on his hands and knees (being un
able to walk). On tho way to the rear he received two moro wounds, 
and whilo at the drossing station ho received yet another, and in 
the field hospital yet another, making in all seven wounds received 
by this heroic officer. His example of great personal courage, and 
utter disregard of self was of greatest; help to his men in most trying 
time and dangerous circumstances.
But Lieutenant Sanborn, when lie spoke these following words, 
rose even higher as a real man:
I tried to bo a good soldierto do my dutyand that day I 
know I did my dutyand nothing more; and that, day every one of 
my men likewise did liis full duty. Why should I be decorated for 
simply doing my duty V If I am to bo docoratcd then every man of 
my command who was that day with mo-should be likewise decorated. 
When you can decorate those men of mine who did simply what I 
didtheir dutyyou may decorate meand not til then. My men 
stood by meand now I stand by them. I think that a man should 
do something more than simply his duty to win that decoration.
It was the Distinguished Service Cross, the highest award this 
land can give, that Llieutenant Sanborn refused.
To think of ones comrades in such a manner is surely indicative 
of a real man. Lieutenant Sanborn is now dead, liut Carnegie Tech 
is proud to have had at one time such a man as a &tpdent.
The modern student knows too 
much, and hopes too little," says Mr. 
Norman Thomas of the Nation Maga
zine. Mr. Thomas spoke at the M. 
M. assembiyi last Wednesday on the 
Social Forces After the War..
He said that although the world is 
at peace, each part of it is in contin
uous turmoil. The cure be advocated 
was a brotherhood of nations, not 
only for the settling of commercial 
questions, but also to solve the pro
blems of each country's natural re
sources. For instance, America has 
good coal and iron resources, but 
falls down on oil, while Japan boasts 
of its oil. A brotherhood of nations 
would permit the proper distribution 
of these products.
Dorothy Grant took charge of as
sembly! after the departure of Miss 
Breed and Mr. Thomas, and the busi
ness of choosing a student council 
president was transacted. Of course 
it was merely a theoretical choice, 
for at present Margaret Morrison has 
no great hopes of supplying the 
president of the student council. 
Some day, however, there may be a 
girl worthy enough to fill the office, 
and the girls are learning now, just 
how to choose the girl. Blair Jessop 
was elected out of a group of five 
nominees: Jane Marshall, Blair Jes
sop, Martha Zimmerman, Victoria 
Weedy, Mary Heilig.
COMMENTS j
In some incomprehensible way 
ideals and anemic, lng-haired, wouldbe poets have become hopelessly en
tangled in the modern mind. Ideals 
and day dreams are unjustly regarded 
as synonymous terms. An ideal is as 
practical a thing as may be found; 
it is practical and it is sublime. It 
is practical in that it makes bearable 
the performance of menial in the 
struggle for its attainment; it is sub
lime because it gives us glimpses into 
the vistas of a golden sphere of per-, 
fection. An ideal is a coruscating 
beacon, blazing, for the most part, un
seen but flashing upon our sight 
when we are about to be engulfed in 
the morass of discouragement and 
failure; a beacon which gives us en
ergy to extricate ourselves from the 
slough of despondency and to gain the 
borders of the world of which we 
have' liadi only ephemeral gleams. 
Few reach the borders of that world; 
fewer still go beyond the borders and 
the splendors of its interior remain 
an unattained sanctum sanctorum, an 
incentive to further endeavor.
But it is the man with an ideal 
rather than the idealists who is among 
the select few. The man with an 
ideal, makes his way toward the re
alization of that ideal through mate
rial progress. He jogs along in the 
rut if it finally turns into a smooth 
highway. The idealists, disregarding 
material things, would vault with a 
single bound to the place of his 
choice; but he is muscle-bound by the 
vory force of his gorgeuos visions. 
The idealist is due for a sad disillu
sionment when the world of fancy col
lides with the world of fact. Dont 
sacrifice thought to action. In tho 
ono casea visionary ne'er-do-well; 
in the othera blindly-workin'g hu
man machine. Strike tho middle 
course! Cherish tho thought of reach
ing a Mecca but do not allow the 
thought to dominate. Bo a man with 
an ideal rather than an idealist!
W. V.
Judge Tensard DeWolf of Pitts
burgh spoke before the Criminology 
Class of M. M. last week.
LABORATORY PRESS 
OPENS WITH CEREMONY
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
A greater service doeth no man 
than that he doeth for his fellow-man, 
which is true of women as well.
That true, loving, and sympathetic 
kindness of woman cannot be 
matched by the snow of such traits 
in man. Where my mother says: "Be 
happy in the happiness of others; 
my father says: *3e happy in thy
own show of strength.
And so it 8, as tlie man fights ruth
lessly for success in his own lines of 
endeavor, the woman fights tenderly 
for the happiness of others.
To teach the women of Carnegie 
Tech how they can better carry this 
fight into the world, the Social Work 
Department is organized. This de
partment is doing a great work, both 
through the endeavors of its under
graduates as well as its graduates. 
And so, this article might be divided 
into these two parts.
Realizing that social work is large
ly a matter of personality and con
tact, the curriculum plans a large 
amount of actual field work. The de
partment is now developing a special 
course in recreation training as a re
sult of which it is hoped to place 
more students in the future as rec
reation directors and leaders in con
nection with various organizations, 
such as Y. W. C. A. settlements, com
munity centers, and institutions for 
the care of children and girls.
This year, for the first time, train
ing is given in health education work, 
with the co operation of the Tuber
culosis League. The students are do
ing their field work under this league 
and have carried the message of 
health to many groups of children in
the parochial schools. They are also 
learning something of the technique of 
newspaper writing and other publicity 
work. Students, also under the au
spices of the League, are learning 
what it is to work in small communi
ties rather than in cities and are go
ing every week into Miflin Township, 
following up the health examinations 
made in the schools, organizing clubs, 
and helping the people of the com
munity to discover and meet their 
own needs.
At the same time they are contin
uing family case work training which 
has been the backbone of the course 
since its beginning and which is car
ried on in close co-operation with the 
Associated Charities of Pittsburgh. 
All of the junior students spend 
twelve hours a week visiting families 
known to the Associated Charities 
who are in need, of some type of as
sistance and care. In addition, some 
Seniors, specializing in this line of 
work, are with the Mothers Assist
ance Fund where they help supervise 
the pensions granted by the state to 
help widows take care of their chil
dren who would not otherwise be 
financially able to do so.
Which brings us to the points of 
results or the work of graduates. 
They are doing a great and beneficial 
work, and as a result the list is long. 
Watch for them in this column next 
week.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
TWO HURT WHEN BOMB 
CALORIMETER EXPLODES
Joe Davis, Ind., 24, and Prof. C. 
W. Prine were seriously burned 
about the head and face last Friday 
morning when a bomb ^calorimeter 
exploded in the Heat Laboratory of 
the College of Science and Engineer
ing. A speedy recovery is anticipated 
for both and it is reported that no 
permanent injury will result. 1 
Messrs. Davis ana Prine were per
forming an experiment with the cal
orimeter when the explosion occur
red.
The bomb calorimeter Is an appar
atus for measuring the heating value
of bituminus coal. It is made of 
steel and sustains exceedingly high 
pressure, oxygen being forced in un
der a pressure of 15 atmospheres or 
225 pounds per square inch.
Davis is a Junior in the Depart
ment of Heating and Ventilating, Col-, 
lege of Industries, Professor Prine is 
an instructor in the Department of 
Physic, CoUege of Science and En
gineering.
The reason for the explosion is not 
lui own.
New Gym: Hey, Maggie Murph,
didja hear that Mr. Orbin has a new 
dog?
Maggie Murph: No, whats the
idea?
New Gym: Oh, he expects the dog
to dig up some more bones for me.
| Start the f 
f Week Right f
X Xx*j* Church on Sunday puts X y.j. new pep into Monday, *:*
?j* Tuesdaj7-, Wednesday  **
X till Sunda3r comes again. *:* 
A XTry it and see. .j.
X X,!, v| Oakland Methodist | 
| Church |
t FORBES AND BOQUET ?X X.i. X
Fifty steps from the 
'' campus X
PATRONIZE OUR  ADVERTISERS
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
Sunday Services:
Church School ............ 9:45 A.M.
Open Forum .................10:00 A.M.
Religious Worship... 11:00 A.M. 
Young Peoples Relig
ious Union ................ 7:15 P.M.
Wednesday.
Woman's Alliance____11:00 A.M.
A cordial invitation is extended. 
REV. L. WALTER MASON, D.D. 
Pastor.
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D.f Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class ...........................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service 7:00P.M.
Christian Endeavor
Societies .................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
The first impression was pulled 
from the press in the Fine Printing 
Laboratory by Dr. Baker last Satur
day morning. The ceremony, which 
marked the formal opening of the 
"Laboratory Press, was in charge of 
Porter Garnett, Associate Professor 
of Graphic Arts.
Director Morris opened the exer
cises by introducing Prof. Garnett, 
who addressed the gathering on the 
aims of his course in Fine Printing. 
This course, which was established a 
year ago, has for its purpose, the 
training of students advanced in 
those elements of taste, tradition, and 
technique, which constitute that 
branch of typography and book-production known as Fine Printing.
David A. Reed, senator from Penn
sylvania, was present and spoke 
briefly of the importance of the occa
sion to those who were interested in 
production, of fine printed books in 
this country. Dr. Baker then per
formed the office of pressman for the 
occasion and the proof-impression was 
read by Prof. Garnett.
The following poem by John Maseflold was the main feature of the 
proof:
Invocation.
O wandered into many brains,
O spark the emperors purple hides, 
You snow the dusk with fiery grains 
When the gold horseman rides,
O beauty on tho darkness hurled,
Be it through me you shame tho 
world.
In addition to the poem the first im
pression contained the names of all 
the students of tho course, and the 
mark of the Press, which bears the 
motto, Nothing commonplace, noth
ing hackneyed, nothing inept, and 
the statement that the sheet upon 
which it was printed was presented 
by Senator Reed, from a book printed 
in 1470, at Augsburg, Germany. The 
closing remarks were made by Dr. 
Baker.
The Old Faith
----------and-------
The New Knowledge
A Frank Exposition of the Value of the First 
Chapters of Genesis.
SUNDAY MORNING-11 OCLOCK
I.
APRIL 15 
THE ORIGIN OF MAN
Chapter 2:4-24
Is it necessary to choose between the Teaching of the Bible and 
the teaching of Evolution?
''7
APRIL 22 
THE FALL OF MAN
Chapter 3
Charles Darwin wrote The Descent of Man. .Henry Drum
mond wrote of The Ascent of Man. What is the true point of 
view?
'''7
APRIL 29 
THE FOUNDATIONS OF SOCIETY
Chapters 4-5
If you would "put the brotherhood of man upon a right and an 
enduring foundation you must first of all get right with God.
IV.
MAY 6
THE SPIRITUAL MEANING OF THE STORY 
OF THE FLOOD
Chapters 6-10
What Is the dicerence between the flood story in the Bible and 
the flood stories found in Babylonian and other literature,
v.
MAY 13
THE BUILDING OF THE TOWER OF BABEL
Chapter 11
Alfred Austin says: Man will never cease to build towers of
Babel. What does he mean?
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
Amberson, Between Fifth and Ellsworth 
Hugh T. Kerr, Pastor

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
INTER-FRATERNITY-DORMITORY 
TRACK TO BEGIN NEXT WEEKOn the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
TENNIS TEAM HAS marietta track meet 
TOUGH SCHEDULE postponed to may |
Each Fraternity and Dormi
tory Represented in Events 
to Mark This New Feature
On Tuesday, April 17, tlie much 
talked. of Inter-Fraternity Track Meet 
will begin in earnest. Promptly at 
4:30 p. m., on that day, the 100-yard 
dash preliminaries will be run off. 
Following this preliminaries will be 
run throughout the week until Satur
day, April 21, when most of the 
semi-finals and finals will be held. 
The remainder of the events will be 
held on May 26, during Campus 
Week. The only running event on 
this day will be the relay, the other 
events being weight events.
On account of the unusual amount 
of interest aroused over these meets, 
it is expected that they will rival 
those of the varsity insofar as keen 
competition is concerned. The fact 
that letter men will not be eligible 
to compete will bxing out a host of 
athletes- from each fraternity and 
dormitory, and the rivalry will un
doubtedly be at high pitch. Many 
good men who do not come out for 
the varsity squad will be seen in 
these meets, and much benefit will be 
derived in more ways than one.
The valuable prizes to be awarded 
the winters will make it worth while 
for every fraternity and dormitory 
to enter all available men in these 
meets, and these men must at once 
begin to get into shape if they al
ready have not done so. The organi
zation having the greatest number 
of points at the end of the meets will 
be the recipient of a handsome silver 
cup to be donated by the Theta Tau, 
Professional Engineering Fraternity. 
This cup will be known as the Theta 
Tau Cup. The winner of the ffclay 
race, to be held on May 26, besides 
securing double points toward the 
Theta Tau Cup, will receive a hand
some silver cup to be given by the 
A. G. Spalding & Bro. Company. In 
addition to these cups, there is a 
probability] that individual medals 
will be given for first and second 
place winners in each of the various 
events.
At the meeting of the track mana
gers held last Tuesday the business 
end of the meets was definitely plan
ned. The dates and meets cofnmittee, of which Jerry Sly is chairman, 
will remain the same. This commit
tee will have actual charge of the 
handling of the events, and will ap
point official starters, timers, judges, 
clerks of course, etc. The rules com
mittee is now known as the eligibil
ity committee, and Is composed of 
Slioerke, chairman, Laughrey and
LIFE
One has not really lived 
until he has gone abroad. 
No need to put off the 
trip until another year, 
The same rare interest 
awaits.
Let us arrange every
thing for you, passage, 
letters of credit, side 
trips, through our Steam
ship Agenqy.
Mellon National Bank
Oliuer Smiihfield
Meyer. E. W. Miller has been ap
pointed as committee on signs. The 
dates of the meets and the rules gov
erning them as drawn up by the com
mittees were passed upon at the 
meeting. It is understood that any 
points not covered by the rules ocered by the rules committee will be de
cided in accordance with the inter
collegiate rules.
The events will be run off as fol
lows:
Tuesday, April 17, 4:30 p. 
yard dash prelims.
Wednesdays, April IS, 4:30 p. 
220-yard dash prelims.
Thursday, April 19, 4:30 p. m. 
440-yard run prelims.
Friday, April 20, 4:30 p. m.220 
yard low hurdles prelims.
Saturday, April 21, 4:30 p. m.100- 
yard dash, semi-finals; 440-yard run 
semi-finals (if necessary), 220-yard 
dash-semi-fiuals, 220-yard low hurdles 
semi-finals, mile run, 880,-yard run, 
high jump, broad jump, 10-yard dash 
finals, 440-yard run finals, 220-yard 
rash finals, 220-yard low hurdles 
finals.
Saturday, May 26, 2:30 p. 
(Campus Week)Mile relay prelim, 
shot put, javelin throw, discus throw, 
pole vault, mile relay finals.
The rules governing the inter-Fratenrity Track Meets for 1923 are as 
follows:
1. There shall be the following
events: 100 yard dash, 220
yard dash, 440 yard run, SS0 
yard run, one mile run, 220 
yard low hurdles, one mile re
lay, high jump, broad jump, 
shot put, javelin throw, discus 
throw and pole valult.
2. No member of any organization
who is not attending the Car
negie Institute of Technology 
at the present time shall be 
eligible.
3. No man may represent more than
one organization (fraternity 
and dormitory).
4. Events shall be run off when
scheduledrain or shine.
5. No man earning his letter in
track in any way shall be eligi
ble (track does not include 
cross-country.
6. There shall be not more than
three men in any event from 
any one organizationexcept in 
the relay race.
7. The points shall be as follows: 
First place5 points.
Second place4 points.
Third place3 points.
Fourth place2 points.
Fifth place1 point.
The relay race shall count double
points.
8. The organization having the
greatest number of points at 
the end of the meets shall be 
declared the winner.
9. In case of a tie in any event, the
points shail be divided. In case 
of a tie for the winner of the 
meet or of the relay event, the 
winner shall be decided by the 
toss of a coin.
Now lets go, fraternities and dor 
mitories! Everything is in readiness, 
and its your move. You already 
have your entries in, but see to it 
that your men get out for practice. 
Coach Paul Beeler will find time to 
give every one of you pointers, and 
you should be quick to take advant
age of this opportunity to get expert 
coaching. Lets not lose sight of the 
fact that one of the reasons for hold
ing these meets is an attempt to un
earth hidden track and field talent. 
And Coach Beeler will be looking 
you over. ON YOUR MARKS!
BREAKING GROUND
This month for the new gymnasium was the statement elicited from 
| the committee several months ago. From an article in the last issue we 
1 discover that the plans have not yet been approved and will not be until a 
certain gentleman in California is consulted. This means still more of this 
impatient waiting by the student body.
We have heard that there may be a wait of two or three years because of 
the price of materials and the insufficiency of the funds at hand. If this is 
the truth it looks as though the students were being hoodwinked.
There is no reason why a suitable gymnasium cannot be built with the 
funds at hand. Lets forget the elaborate decorations for the time being and 
build the necessary parts. Jim Anderson and his cagers can play just as 
good basket ball in a plain gymnasium as they can in one covered with 
frills. What is needed is a good sized floor with sufficient seating capacity 
and a roof overhead.
The idea of ever having this new gymnasium is coming to be a joke 
among the students on the campus. It is about time that the student body 
took some active interest and brought some pressure to bear upon the matter. 
Perhaps a student committee would help the situation.
What do you say fellow students? Lets talk it up.
Williams YD
the softest course in college
WILLIAMS VII js a course for every man in the 
institution. Its seven times a week but the ses
sions are shortless than five minutes each. And best 
of all, no man who elects Williams ever failsto get a 
better shave than he ever got before.
The first thing you learn in shaving with Williams 
is of the remarkably beneficial effect it has on your skin.
You cant fail to be impressedeven after the closest 
examinationwith the fact that here, at last, is a shav
ing cream which really does your face good.
Then, especially if youre of a practical, business
like turn of mind, youll be 
pleased with the efficiency ^iL
of Williams. It softens the />ss iljaS xattctnetHiwd, . . I, I ( yUlf~liatS | cap. You can'tbeard in so much less lose u-aud the
time._ It does everything a tube hangup,
shaving cream is supposed 
to do.
Get a tube of Williams* 
today. Use it for two 
months. See then if you ever 
could go back to any other 
shaving cream.
Williams
Shavng Cream
Two Men to. Be Picked Be
fore Roster o f First Team 
is Complete
Track Coach Beeler parked in the wrong lane downtown the other day 
and was disqualified with a red tag. Perhaps the boys had better coach him 
a little in the matter of traffic rules.
SOMETHING NEW
For Carnegie Tech was initiated last week when our red-jerseyed gridders opened up their spring practice. This will last for several weeks and 
as a result of it Doc Marks hopes to get a line on some men who can All 
the four positions in the line, left vacant by graduation. These positions in
clude the two ends, the center position and a tackle job. Some substitute 
material along with candidates from the Plebe team will make up the squad 
from which men for these positions will be picked.
We believe that it is going to be a tough job finding good men to fill 
in the line and give it the strength it has had in the past. However, we 
hope that Doc and A1 are successful for we recall that Pitt is on the schedule 
for next fall.
There was a fairly good crowd at the first of the Post Season games, 
for the Inter-fraternity basket ball championship, last Saturday afternoon. 
However a large crowd can be accommodated and these games can be guar
anteed to provide plenty of excitement, for there is keen rivalry.
The old tennis racket within its cover is showing signs of life probably 
as a result of a few whiffs of spring, but with the surprises that the season 
has been springing on us perhaps it will have to stay in its cover for at 
least a few dEys more.
Theta Tau, national professional engineering fraternity, has come to the 
front with the much needed gift of a trophy for the Inter-Mural Track Meet. 
They are deserving of much credit for helping to promote this new branch 
of athletics.
FRESHMAN FOOTBALL 
Next fall will provide some new features in that two games have been 
booked with the yearling outfits of neighboring Institutions, Pitt and Penn 
State. Hugh Sprinkle, who will have charge of the Plebes next fall, is going 
to have a good sized task on his hands but we believe he is capable enough 
to win that game on Forbes Field.
The Puppet wasn't far wrong when it called this page Sad Athletics.
MANY SCHOOLS ENTER 
INTERSCHOLASTIC MEET
Plans for the annual interscholastic 
high school track meet which is to be 
held on May 5, are rapidly nearing 
completion. There will be many new 
features in connection with the meet 
this year and from present indica
tions this event will be the most suc
cessful one held at Carnegie.
The track and field events will bo 
the same as they wore last year and 
include the famous relay race. En
tertainment will be provided for the 
athletes of the competing schools the 
entire time they are here. Most of 
the boys coming here from, distant 
places will be cared for in the fra
ternity houses. On the night before 
the meet the school will bo thrown 
open for inspection and some enter
tainment will be furnished.
Up to the present time there are 
thirty-five high schools entered in the 
meet and there are still many schools 
to be heard from. Maryland, West 
Virginia, New York, Ohio, and Penn
sylvania, are the states represented 
in the field. This wide range of com
petition should make the rivalry keen
er than ever before.
It is hoped that the student body 
will boost this event and help make 
it a sucoess. Much good work can 
be accomplished for the good of Car
negie Tech by trying to show these 
high school boys what a good place 
this is.
New Athletes Report For 
Spring Football Practice
HON. WM. (HIMSELF) REILLY 
TO SING AT CONCERT OF 
CARNEGIE CANARY TROUPE
(Continued From Page One.) 
be the corneder performers, I can 
only say, in order - of their impor
tance, Mr. Reilly, erand others, Mr. 
Murphy whom I knew personally in 
Sweden, will render a tear-provoking 
effort, entitled The Tarbells of Hotland. followed by My Wrens a 
Bear, but She Drinks Like a Fish. 
Mr. Webb Cunningham, the male 
Nora Bayes, will put the audience to 
sleep with a bird of a swallow song, 
entitled, Glub, Glub, Glub. 
Mr. Reilly wished to make it per
fectly clear to all his many friends 
and admirers that he (himself) 
would positively appearthis is not 
a cinema! For no reason at all, the 
Collegiate Imps mil annoy with sev
eral renditions in their own inevit
able manner . (Adv.)
Second Story Morry hereby pre
sents his compliments to all mem
bers of the club (coats, vests and | 
pants for hire on seconds notice.) 
Local insurance companies will be at 
home Thursday evening to the more 
conservative members of the organi
zation.
The performance will close with 
the audience joining in the chorus 
of the well known ditty, Who Scent 
the Onions to Marys Garden?"
During the first few days of spring 
football piactice, (Field Coach, D(i\ 
Marks and Assistant Coacli, Irwin, 
were somewhat discouraged over the 
small turnout considering the expectod amount of material which the 
coaches knew was within tho col
leges at Carnegie Tech this year. 
Most of the men who came out last 
Thursday for the first workout wore 
regulars from tho 1922 squad, but dur
ing the throe days sinco then, a num
ber of new faces have been welcomed 
at the Freshman training fiold.
Practice, which consists of light 
work only, will continue for three 
weeks and it is expected that within 
that time the coaches will liavo a lino 
on the material so that they may 
handle it more satisfactorily next 
fall. Not until a woolc or more of 
spring training has been under way 
will the coaches in charge realizo the 
benefit of It, nor will they make any 
find for the vacated positions until 
the3e men have had on opportunity 
to wear off their superfluous weight.
Any spectator who should stop at 
the practice field to watch the boys at 
work, would find them running down 
punts, drop-kicking, and starting In 
with the fundamentals of the game. 
The coaches are attempting to give 
individual instruction to those candi
dates who liavo played very little 
football, so if there are more students 
who want to give themselves 
chance to see whether they have 
some promise of becoming a Brickley, 
they should1 avail themselves of the 
opportunity to get right in on the 
ground floor of this short period of 
practice.
R. O. T. C. RIFLE TEAM
TENNIS RACQUETS 
RESTRUNG BY 
PITTSBURGHS EXPERT
Bring racquet to Tennis Room 
in Field House Mondays or 
Wednesdays between 4:30-5:30.
Put in your order for fresh 
tennis balls.
See Jack Ferguson, Assistant 
Tennis Manager.
The Carnegie Tech R. O. T. C. Rifle 
team is now practising for the InterEngineer Unit Match to be shot off 
on the 15th of April. Under the su
pervision of Lieutenant Cruse, the 
men are putting in their extra time 
at the range working in their shoot
ing eyes. This meet is participated 
in by the Engineer units from 21 of 
the colleges of the country. Among 
these are the various technical 
schools, M. I. T., V. P. I., California 
Tech, Alabama, and in addition Yale, 
V. M. I., Washington State, and West 
Virginia, are among the more promi
nent colleges.
Under the rules for the meet, all 
shooting for match scores must be 
done on two consecutive days, and 
must be done in the four positions, 
standing, sitting, kneeling, and prone. 
It is hoped that the team will make 
a better showing than it did in the 
previous all-unit match.
VAUDEVILLE IS ON ASSEMBLY 
PROGRAM TODAY 
(Continued From Page One)
Hail To Carnegie by Lcnoro 
Davies and arranged by AI Johnson 
will be the second piece. The music 
to this song is in march time.
Hail to Carnegie, we love her so. 
Her sons and daughters where'ere we 
go.
Down in old Pittsburgh, she stands 
so fair.
Four schools united, Symbol of 
friendship there,
Symbol of friendship thereOne need not be a/ botanist In or
der to recognize a Hlooming idiot.
With only ten days in which to se
lect a tennis team that will journey 
to Morgantown to play the University j 
of West Virginia, Coach Garland has 
been spending much time concentrat
ing upon a few of tho many candi
dates out for tho two open positions 
vacated by Neville and Copley of last 
years team.
In spite of the prolonged wintor 
weather, a number of the men have, 
been using an asphalt court which 
has been available for those who 
have been coming out for practico 
regularly. Tennis like most other 
sports, requires daily exercise, and 
only those players who learn to en
gage themselves with that fact will 
ever make a success on the courts at 
Carnegie Tech, are the words of ad
vice from Carnegie's tennis coach, 
Chuck Garland. A man who has 
ranked among the nations best ten 
really knows the value of training, 
both on the courts and off the courts.
Prospects in tennis for this year 
are far brighter than they have ever 
been at Carnegie, but material alone 
will not shape a team that must face 
several of the best college net men 
in the country. A good captain as a 
leader, plays a large part in deter
mining the morale of his men. Cap
tain Schwartz, who has displayed abil
ity sufficiently to be recognized as a 
foremost tii-state racquetman, says 
that he is very eager to get into 
action again this spring.
For more than a Aveek Captain 
Schwartz, Keil, Van Atta, OConnor, 
Hauser, Bomo, Kemory, I-Iousour, 
Simpson, McClain, and many others 
have taken advantage of tho asphalt 
courts, while those candidates who 
have confined their practice to tho 
gymnasium will soon ho given an op
portunity to show their worth on tho 
clay courts adjacent to Margarot Mor
rison College.
Last Saturday, tho managors began 
tholr work of putting the courts in 
condition, and although tho ground is 
a little soft, several members of tho 
squad tried out a few volleys in prep
aration of tho coming matchos.
Tho recent mooting of tho Athlotlc 
Council was very favorable toward 
the expansion of tennis. Along with 
the corrocted schedulo, which it final, 
sovoral homo games will bo played 
with local promlnont teams.
Out of tho first seven matches, four 
will be played on tho Carnoglo courts, 
Wash-Jeff being tho first opponent to 
bo witnessed at homo.
Manager Krolslo proaonts tho fol
lowing approved schedule, which 
should bo cut out and poslod over 
each students desk as a reminder:
April 21West Virginia, tlioro.
April 28Wash-Jofi, horo.
May 2Wost Virginia, horo.
May 3Watth-Joff, there.
May 4Oborlin, horo.
May CAlloghony Collogo, thoro.
May 9Bucknoll, horo.
May 10Michigan, thoro.
May 11Oborlin, thoro.
May 12~Wostorn Itosorvo, thoro.
May 14Michigan, horo.
May 24Alumni, liore.
May 26Alloghony, horo.
May 30Ponn State, thoro.
May 31Yalo, there.
June 1Pending.
Juno 2Lehigh, thoro.
Iota Sigma Delta Defeats 
Xi Sigma Upsilon 19 to 9
Iota Sigma Delta Avon the first 
game of the final Inter-Fraternity 
series Saturday afternooil by defeat
ing Xi Sigma Upsilon ID to 9.
The game was well attended, show
ing the interest of the students In 
this series. The next game will be 
played Wednesday evening, April 
11, between Xi Sigma Upsilon and 
Sigma Mu. The lineup:
Iota Sigma Delta.
Xi Sigma Upsilon.
Cooper ...................F.......... Jones, L. E.
Wilson ....................F....................... Bohn
Byerly ....................C......................... Reed
Hegdren ................G............ Jones, D. C.
Kennedy ................G.................... Murray
SubstitutionsMeyer for Cooper, 
Cooper for Wilson, Glover for Hedgren. Field goalsCooper 4, Wilson 
3, Byerly 1, Paul 1, Murray 1. Foul 
goalsByerly, 1 out of 6; Murray, 5 
out of 8. RefereeMoses. Umpire 
Fink.
HUMAN HAIRNETS 'Made Stronger Last Longer
For tho Bake of economy, flflk for 
Duro Bello halmotH. No other net 
can (rive you tT much untlnfftctlon 
becauiio no other net him them inmovii Duro knot.
Full Izetruo color#Initio or 
double Hlrunilcup or frhiKO tyle.
Women everywhere 
marvel nfc the lonjjur 
wear, bettor nhnpe, 
anl brighter limtro of 
Duro Belle j
7Suy them by the
The schedule of the track team has 
recently been revised with the result 
that April 2S, tho opening date for 
tho speedsters, will find tho Carnegie 
Tech track devoid of attraction. The 
Marietta dual meet has been post
poned until May 19, and will bo at 
Marietta.
The revised track schedule now 
looks something like this:
April 2SPenn Relays and Drake 
Relays.
May 5Penn State at State Col
lege.
May 12Ohio State, lier<
May 19Marietta, at Marietta.
May 26Naval Academy, at Annap
olis.
June 2Pitt Intor-collegiatos.
On April 2S, Carnegie will ho rep
resented in widely separated sections 
of the country. Tho relay team will 
attend the Penn Rolay Carnival at 
Philadelphia, while men who are good 
in certain special events will bo sent 
to tho Drake Relays in Iowa. Ono of 
these events will probably bo the 
broad jump, in which Pittman and 
Robertson excoll.
Very little comment is necessary 
upon the rest of tho schedule. The 
assistant managers have been work
ing daily upon the track and it is 
now in very good condition. A num
ber of spectators wore treated to an 
exhibition of nmnagorlal ingenuity 
last Saturday, when tho labor ques
tion was solved by substituting ma
chinery for manpower. A certain de
crepit looking flivver, but ono with 
a truo lioart, was pressed into serv
ice in front of the big iron roller. In 
a short timo tho cinder path was 
beautiful to look upon, and a delight 
to tho foet of tho athlotes.
With such marked managerial abil
ity, and a number of good athlotoB, 
tho track season cannot bo a failure.
SPRINKLE ELECTED 
PLEBE GRID COACH
Freshman Football Schedule 
Includes Games With 
Pitt and State
PLAN TO INAUGURATE 
GOLFAS SPRING SPORT
As a roBUlt of tho suggestion that 
Carnegie Tech inaugurate golf among 
her short list of spring sports, a 
number of Intorostod students huvn 
talkod It up to tho point whore a 
tournament or somo sort of compe
titive arrangement by elimination 
may sift out a team worthy of rep
resenting Carnoglo Ter.h In unofllelal 
tournoya with oilier colleges of thin 
aection.
After attempts for two years, PI It 
and State each succooded In having 
golf instituted as a collogo Sport of 
specialized character which given all 
Us participant an equal advantage 
In demonstrating ability OD a golfer 
and also In tho llnor resulting quali
ties of tho game which teach eti
quette and courtony.
Very soon, all tho eolloger of high 
standing will have golf leamn so 
It Is up to tho students of Oarnoglo 
Tech loday whether there shall bo a 
golf teafh In tho future.
All those who aro Interested 
enough to try out for the team or 
wish to know more about golf should 
report to tho tennis room In tho 
Field House today at 4:30.
Students not oqulppcd with o loath* 
cr brief cnoo, n good fountain pon, 
Evcruhnrp Poncll, bill fold, and at 
least ono piece of Toch" Jewelry 
should visit the Slngor Pon & Gift 
Shop In Jenkins Arcade.
Hugh Sprinkle will bo tho guiding 
star for tho Freshman football outfit 
next fall. This was decided at tho 
Athletic Council meeting held last 
Wednesday night at the offico of the 
Graduate Manager.
Sprinkle needs no introduction to 
tho followers of Carnegie Tech ath
letics. His record on the varsity foot
ball team for the past three seasons 
has been sufficient to make him 
known far beyond tho boundaries of 
the campus, and his appointment to 
the coaching position will meet with 
universal approval.
The Freshman football schedulo is 
now comploto and was officially ap
proved by the Council. Tho program 
is as follows:
Oct. 6Slippery Rock Normal, 
here.
Oct. 13Penn State Freshmen, at 
State College.
Oct. 20Opon.
Oct. 27Pitt Freshmen, Forbes
Flold.
Nov. 2Klski, at Saltsburg.
Nov. 9California Normal, at Cal
ifornia.
Nov. 1GBellefonte, here.
No explanation Is necessary; but 
tho contest with Bellofonte should be 
a big drawing card.
In addition to the Plebe schedule, 
the tennis schedule was approved by 
tho Council. The official O. K. wns 
also attached to tho recently signed 
football game with Muskingum Col
lege, to lie tho curtain raiser for the 
1923 varsity campaign.
Tho Froslimon who distinguished 
themselves on tho basket, ball court 
during tho past season wore warded 
their class numerals. Tho Individuals 
are Amans, Cook, Boodo, Reltor, Jack
son, Goodwin, Edlo and L. Smith, Don 
Sonnoman received tho minor 0 In 
recognition of his jforvicos as man
ager.
Tho Seminar-of Applied Psychology 
holds meetings every Thursday aftornoon In tho Central Building. On 
March 22, INT Ins Rood road a pa por 
An Investigation of tho St ago Per
sonality of Musicians." Slio will givo 
tho second part of tho discussion at 
the next mooting.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
"I eortnlnly (tin. I'd tu Ilio world for yo I lihiiil"
Damo
All rlKlit-nrovo il I 01 vo mo lindelimi. KIdonulo prudi you borrowed lUt nielli."
TONS ^AY1T:45
~l/ie master dmwingpencil'
17 Iraihall iIraltrt
Davies & Hughes
Oaklans Mens Storo
HATS CAPS MENS FURNISHINGS
3615 Forbes Street Next to Strand Theater
Open every night
is raii
OM2M2/SMS/2Mc!iS/S/5JSMSM2MSic!MSJt!Mc!MSM3Jii!/SMS/EMc!iSiSJ5iSJDlM2ISI2Mc!Mc!MSi
Somet^.
yfeui
0n Brunst K
A splendid recording of Griegs
Peer Gynt Suite:
Part IMorning
Part HIAnitras Dance
Brunswick Record No. 2407 
Played by tlut 
CAPITOL GRAND ORCHESTRA
Krno Conductor
Conceded by many critics to be the finest symphony 
orchestra in any theatre in the world.
A striking example of the fidelity of Brunswick 
recording.
Brunswick: Records play on any phonograph. 
Dealers have new Brunswick Records dally t
PHONOGRAPHS AND RECORDS

---------------------------------------------------

frAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
M. Walton Elected 
Leader of Pgh. Clan
Members Asked to Aid Glee 
Clubs Home Concert
With about 70 enthusiastic clun 
(members out, f.lio luncheon hold, iII 
the Norse lloom of the Fort Pitt 
Hotel on Saturday, April 7, was TtT 
oL' the most Interesting hold this 
your.
Tho first event or noto on tho pro* 
grum !OC rondored In very able fash
ion by tiio MuBlcal Clubs' Orchestra, 
now known ub tho Collegiate Imps. 
When tho applause had subsided suf
ficiently, Buddy Overend, Chairman 
oil tho Pittsburgh Clan Nominating 
ConYmlttee, announced tho noininatons of tho following for' clan officers 
tor the coming year:  M. It. Walton, 
president; Mrs. F. I. Gaston, first 
vice president; MIbb Muiy WIlllaniB, 
second vice president, and A. J 
Hynd, Bocrotary and treasurer. Mo
tion was made, seconded, and. car
ried, to accept these nominations. J. 
C. IioibbB, retiring president, then 
tlianlcod the retiring officers for tho 
co-operation they had given him dur
ing his term of office.
Bill Reilly) then made a very spir
ited' and persosiye talk on the Mu
sical Clubs' home concert to be hold 
on Friday, the thirteenth, in the Car
noglo Music Hall.
Mr. I-Iobbs then announced tho 
Margaret Morrison 500 and bridge 
party to take place in the dining 
room of KaufmannB Big Store from 
two to five p. m., on Saturday, April 
21i. This is an annual event and the 
proceeds go for the benefit of the 
M. M. Alumnae Scholarship Fund.
Tho orchestra then produced a 
sample of tho high quality of music 
which will ho the order of the even
ing at the homo concert and showed 
those who will bo thoro that they 
have something pleasant to look for 
ward to.
Mr. Tlllbroolc was called upon to 
dlyulgo tho latest developments of 
Campus Week and to tell about his 
recent trip to Etfropo. After report
ing that tho prsent progross Indi
cates that tho coming Campus Woolc 
will, ho by Car tho best yet, ho 
launched Into a very Interesting nc 
count ol! hin experiences and obser
vations In Franco.
<!. B, Connolly, who has recently 
returned to Carnegie Tech to head 
tho Department of industrial Rela
tions, thou gave ono of his most In
teresting talks, tolling how vitally 
necessary It Is that all who are to 
outer tho industrial world have 
thorough knowledge of actual Indus
trial conditions.
After announcing that the evening 
of April HI has been roHorvodr as 
Alumni Night at tho Little Theator, 
Mr. Hobbs then turned the mooting 
over lo tho now off I oars, Mr, Walton 
then npolco of the hopes of the elan 
J'or the doming your, Tho mooting 
.'tdjournod at about II p. m,
ELECTIONS TO DE GOVERNED
DY NEW RULE8
(Continued From Pago One,) 
tho dame day In all four schools on 
tho date sot by the Studont Connell, 
this day to 1)0 traditionally establish
ed an election day and fittingly ob
served.r>. For tho purpose of election, 
each class sluill establish a. poling 
place under charge of the secretary 
of tho class and two members ol! tho 
senate who are not members of that 
class. On election day pels shall bo 
open for a certain previously an
nounced period, doomed sulllclent to 
collect the ballots during which time 
class members may secure and cast 
their ballot on presentation of their 
registration cards. Tho secretary of 
the class shall have at tho poll a 
roster of the class and as each man 
casts his ballot his name shall be 
checked off.
G. The election of officers of the 
Freshman classes shall be held in fall 
within five weeks of registration, and 
shall be conducted in accordance with 
these regulations.
7. Irregular students shall be con
sidered as voting in the class in 
which they are held to be irregular, 
that Is, an irregular junior will vote 
in the junior class.
8. The majority vote of those cast
ing ballot shall be necessary for elec
tion to office. In case no man receives 
a majority vote for an office the two 
candidates receiving the highest numR. O. T. C. Camps Offer 
Unusual Opportunities
The student who attend tho differ
ent R. 0. T. C. camps this ye^r will 
havo unusual opportunities to enjoy 
themselves.
The camps are Ideally located; 
placos of historical Interest being In 
close proximity to all of them.
Tho engineer camp will bo at Fort 
Humphries, Va., situated on tho Po
tomac river about 20 mlloh south of 
Washington and \ miles from Mt. Ver
non, Tho Motor Transport (Jnlt will 
bo located! at Camp Holablrd, Md., 
very close to Baltimore. While tho 
Signal Corps will train .*4 Camp Al
fred Vail, N. Y about four miles from 
, Asbury 'Park.
j At ill It, O. T.C. campa very liberal 
week-end privileges will be allowed 
In order that the students, so In
clined, may visit surrounding places 
of Interest,
Opportunities are also afforded to 
engage In all forms of athletics In
cluding baseball, track, swimming 
and horseback riding.
The following list of students will 
attend 11, O. T. C. camps this year: 
EngineersE. M. Johnston, James H. 
Davis, John W. Jones, Henry J. Mc
Henry, William M. Fencll, Joseph A. 
Iiootman, John L. Buzzard, Abraham 
deduces, John P. Warpo, John J. Cal
vin, F. B. Mendenhall, K. E. Gibson, 
W. G. Winning, Judson B. Sreupwltz, 
John Jaroma, James E. Hill, Theodoro L. Bleber, Harry W- Foster 
Everett E. Smith, Louis E. Barth, II. 
J. Harper, Alfred M. Malloy, Stuart 
H. Hahn, Milo Matter, Frank R. Sack, 
YT!iC F. Kein.
Motor Transport-r-Carl A. Meiter, 
Sylvaln T. Meurer, Kenneth R. 
Adams, James R. Matter, Francis W. 
West, Frank. E. Powers, D. Donald 
Foster, Walter F. Middleton, Edward 
H. Davis.
Signal CorpsWesloy E. Tubbs, 
John Dalo iSeabert, Floyd M. Harris, 
Padon M. IIlssow, Earl Tatum, R. A. 
Elchenlart, Wilford Flanagan, David 
O. LHonroux, Elmer Kennedy, Dale 
F. Stewart, Howard E. Strong.
Hoquets and Brickbats 
Hurled at Students in Hut
Recontly tho librarian of a larg'e 
college library asked Mrs. Wappat 
how Carnegie Tech handles the prob
lem of noisy students In tho library. 
She received tho amazing answer, 
| "Wo don't have any!"
This has been truo during tho tlireo 
years of tho Library's existence, and 
I has been a source of. much satlsfac| lion to the librarian, and a great help 
I to those who read a7id Btudy in tho 
library.
j Nearly all of the students who use 
I tho library, spend their time there Jn 
work. The few who go In to talk a 
little, do not usually make much of a 
hit at a table surrounded by busy 
I students. Only four times during the 
librarys three years has it been necI essary for any member of the library 
j staff to sneak to a student for talking 
too loudly.
ORIGINAL PAINTINGS FOR 
HOSIERY ADS EXHIBITED
INSTALLATION OF DELTA
TAU DELTA HELD SATURDAY
(Continued from Page Ono)
The active members and pledges of 
tho Delta Beta Chapter of Delta Tau 
Delta aro: Prof. E. Ashe, Robert
Bankier, Robert Bier, C. Richard Burgls, Lester Cousins, Thomas Dempsey, 
Kenneth Foster, Paul Gannon, Harold 
Hill, Dwight Infield, Frank Kitchol, 
Emil Kloo, Way no Koppos, Robert 
Krodol, Charlos Kuhn, David Lileuroux, James Lord, Herbert Nlcklos, 
Frank Powers, .Tamos Roche, Gilbert 
Sullivan, Waltor Mltcheltreo, and 
Plobos Bli, Lachoy, Lambert, Mar
shall, iStrong, Wendiarit and Butler,
18 THIS TOO DEEP?
First Englishman'Algy, did you 
hear tho joke about the guide who 
showed two skulls of Cleopatra, ono 
as a. girl, and one as a woman?
Second Tngllshmnn -No, lets hoar 
it- -HI xoh ange.
her of votes shall ho voted on tho sec
ond tlmo, tho candidate rocolvlng tho 
highest number of votes being olooted.
0, Tho eandldatos receiving tho 
second highest number ol! votes shall 
he declared oloctod vice president.
10. In case a very small poroontago ol! tho class cants ballots on elec
tion day, another ballot may bo taken 
upon a, petition to tho effect signed 
by ono-half the members of the clans 
otherwise tho election will stand.
It. in caso the president becomes 
disqualified to hold olllco or resigns 
from olllco, tho vice president shall 
call a moetlrtg to receive nominations 
for president, and the election shall 
take place In tho regular manner.
12. Each senate shall establish a 
standing election committee of which 
the senate secretary is to be the 
chairman and composed of one mem
ber of each of the other three classes 
lo officiate at elections and see that 
they are carried out in accordance 
with these regulations. This commit
tee will also conduct all elections or 
ballots such as divisional elections for 
athletic association representatives 
and the like.
13. All disputes arising under 
these provisions shall be referred to 
the divisional senate for settlement. 
Any situation arising not herein pro
vided for may be covered by an ad
dition to these regulations by the Stu
dent Council.
14. No proxies will be allowed in 
any elections.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clotlies Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfleld 341
!
h
i
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our pricas are in keeping with tho 
quality and service.
A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smlthfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
A room lull of "Silence signs where 
ono scarcely dares move or breathe, 
Is not a pleasant place to visit, even 
when ono wishes to study, but a quiet 
atmosphere Is necessary if real -work 
Is to bo done. A little talking In un
dertone about ones work, to ones 
neighbor, may be necessary. But as 
soon as the talk drifts to social af
fairs, or becomes too loud, a number 
of. persons are interrupted and an
noyed.
It is surprising that mature students 
should ever cause disturbance in any 
library, but it seems that this is fre
quently true.
Mrs. Wappat reports that the peace
ful atmosphere of Carnegie Tech Li
brary even when it is crowded, has 
caused visitors to make many favorablo comments on student conduct 
hero.
A group of about 45 of the original 
paintings and drawings reproduced In 
recent issues of the Saturday Even| ing Post are no.w on public exhibition 
in the College of Fine Arts. The ex
hibit was selected and sent especially 
to the local Institution by Arthur MeKoougli, of the Curtis Publishing Com
pany, at-the request of the faculty 
of tho Painting and Illustration De
partment.
The originals have been used to il
lustrate stories and articles, and some 
I of them were reproduced, as, front 
cover designs. Among the more prom
inent artists represented in the group | 
j are Normal Rockwell, C. D. Mitchell, 
Coles Phillips, and J. K. Boulen, and 
several members of the regular art 
staff on the magazine.
The exhibition is open to the pub
lic and will probably remain at Car
negie Tech for about three weeks 
longer.
INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION 
OF PAINTINGS TO OPEN
AT CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
The Twenty-second International 
Exhibition of! Paintings will open at 
the Carnegie Institute on April 2G. 
This is the only annual International 
exhibition of paintings in the United 
States and, in fact, in the world since 
tho great Vonotlan International is 
hold only every two years.
Z-Iomor Salnt-Gaudons, the Director 
of Fine Arts at Carnegie, returned re
cently from a four months trip to 
Europe In the interest of the Inter
national. As' a result of Ills efforts, 
ono hundred and seventy paintings 
are coming from various parts of Eu
rope. For some years, because of 
tho unsettled conditions abroad, most 
of tho paintings for tho International 
Giimo from England and Franco, but 
this year tho representation from 
Italy, Spain, Holland, Belgium, Nor
way, Sweden, and Denmark will be 
especially large. Paintings by prac
tically all of tho outstanding artists 
Of tho Old World will bo soon In tho 
exhibition. In all, there will bo over 
throe hundred paintings on display, 
ono hundrod and thirty coming from 
points in tho United States, It is 
planned this your to assign a .sepa
rata gsllovy to each national group.
Tho Jury of Award for tho exhibi
tion will moot In Pittsburgh on April 
(1 to award tho prizes and honors. Tho 
first piT/.o will ho a gold modal, carry
ing with It an award ol! $1,500, tho 
second ii silver modal and $1,000, and 
(hi! third a bronv.o modal and $500. 
Thoro will be as many Honorable 
Mentions as the Jury may decide.
The Jury of Award for the Twenty* 
second International will consist of 
Augustus John of London, England, 
George Dosvalllerds of Paris, Franco, 
and Horatio Walker and Jonas Lie, 
the latter both woll-lcnown artists of 
Now York City.
Tho exhibition will continue 
through June 17 and will bo open to 
tho public each woelc day from 10 to 
10 and on Sundays from 2 to 6 p. m.
"Job Analysis and the Curriculum/' 
a book by Dr. Strong and Mr. Richard 
S. Uhrbrock, formerly of the Personnel 
Bureau and now employment super
visor of the traffic department of the 
West Union, New York, has recently 
been published.
Bill Says:
Recent developments in connection 
with student life on the campus 
brought out a statement that was 
made by1 a member of the Carnegie 
Tech faculty.
The name of the party involved 
as well as the remark he made, if 
reproduced here in print, might bring 
a coat of tar and feathers, but the 
guilty party can consider himself for
tunate that the rumor of the remark 
has not spread further.
"If you cant boost, dont knock 
summarizes the advice that Bill gives 
to that member of the faculty who, 
not feeling that he had anything 
good1 to say about the students who 
attend Carnegie and not having 
enough good-judgment to keep still, 
made a statement to parties outside 
of Carnegie Tech that immediately 
stamps him as a knocker of Carne
gie Btudent3 rather than a booster.
It is hardly believable that the 
member of the faculty who made the 
statement in question would give 
utterance to words that he did.
A wi3e policy for anyone1 to fol
low, faculty included, is: "If you 
dont have a good word to say, keep 
still, but donTt knock. Remember 
that all knocks are NOT boosts.
Robin Attacks Cars
Parked on Campus I Public Sales
Ravages Resemble Wreckage 
of Maggie Murph Rampage
The Wobbly OneThen how did 
you n-know it washz me?Exchange.
JuniorThat girl remlndsi me of a 
doll.
SeniorYes, the kind that cries 
"mamma, when you squeeze it.
SheWhat is capital and labor? 
Explain it to me John.
HeSure, give me a kiss; that is 
capital, you know. 
iSheTry and get it.
1-IeThat is labor.  Cincinnati 
Bearcat.
"THAT CARNEGIE SPIRIT
Every Carnegie Tech student is 
proud of that unseen force, called 
the Carnegie Tech Spirit. It is fine 
\to hear of it, and talk of it, but it 
will not stand forever unless the 
flame is continually aroused.
One of the things which have been 
instituted in an attempt to keep it 
alive is the general asemblage of all 
the students at the Carnegie Music 
Hall once a month. These assem
blies afford the only chance that the 
students have of gathering in a body 
and they must be attended if that 
traditional Carnegie Spirit is to live.
They have been arranged for the 
benefit of the students and should 
not be attended in a spirit of compul
sion, as many now attend them. 
Rather, should they be considered as 
tlia-t intangible, but definite, some
thing which every college must have 
if it is to be successful, and they 
should bo attended with that pur
pose in mind. Let every loyal Car 
nogio Tech student, therefore, rise to 
tho call of his Alma Mater, not in 
mind alono, but. also in body.
KLINE FULMER, 
Architecture. 
RNtEGE MEU
Those men are funny creatures , yot 
l lllco em.
At times they make up fuss and
fret, I lllco 'em.
Theyre tall and lean, and fat and 
low,
And keen and fast, and dull and
slow,
And some of other kinds I know.
Yop, I lllco 'em!
They take me to a Union hop.
I like em.
They load me to a candy shop,
I like 'em.
Some try to pull some fancy stuff, 
And some are really shy enough:
But when they, tease me and treat
me rough,
Oh! Man! I love em!
The Daily Texan.
Directory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni FederationPresident, S. G. Little, 10; First Vice President, J. F. 
Laboon, 12; second Vice President, H. L. Heilman, '17; Third Vice Pres
ident, Genevieve Cushwa, '12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, '08; 
Secretary, Edna C. Smith, '09; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, '15.
Board of GovernorsCrllege of Fine ArtsH. H. Heilman, '17; M. M. 
Steen, '08; Frank Kaaren, Associate.
College of IndustriesS. G. Little, '10; A. J. Hynd, 22; W. H. 
Ritts, '12.
College of EngineeringJ. F. Laboon, 12; G. L. Tilbrook. '15; M. R. 
Walton, 09.
Margaret Morrison Carnoglo CollegeFlorence Bechtel, '18; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, '09; Edna C. Smith, '09.
Representatives at LargeGenevieve Cushwa, '12; S. M. Vincent, '08. 
Officers of Alumni AssociationsCollege of Fine ArtsPresident, II. L. I-Iellmon. '17; Secretary, Frank II. I-Iaaren;
Board of GovernorsC. O. Rieger, 13; Dorothea Steinmacher, '19; 
Frederic McConnell, '17; Charlotte Smith, '18; Sarah Owen, 
Associate.
College of IndustriesPresident, S. G. Little, '10; Vice President, C. 
K. Koontz, '17; Second Vice President, K. H. B. Julian, '16; Secretary-Troasurer, A J. Hynd, '22.
Board of GovernorsL. T. Kelly, Associate L. H. Lee, '09; F. Miller, 
09; J. M. Orr, '15; Q. T. Heddaeus, '19; F. A. Crothers. '21. 
College of EngineeringPresident, J. F. Laboon, 12; SecretaryTreasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of GovernorsR. S. Wilson, '15; M. R. Walton, '09; E. F. 
Hirsh, '20; F. I. Gaston, '09; G. L. Tilbrook, '15; H. S. Stockdale, '15; II. G. Nichol, 21; J. F. Laboon, 12; R. C. Cosgrove, 
'18; E. E. Duff, '13.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegePresident, Florence I. Bechtel, 
18; First Vico President, Jane Linderman ole. 11; Second Vico 
Prosident, Sue Smith. 17; Secretary-Treasurer, Edna C. Smith, 
09.
Executive CommitteeMrs. F. I. Gaston, '09; Gail Sellers Fettlco, 
17; Florence Bechtol, '18; Bernice Kruger, 19; Mary Cummings 
Koaney, 20; Margaret Grifiln, 21; Josephine Whitney, '22. (The 
officers are members of tills Committee.)
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGO'Secretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 Bast G3rd Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Znrobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Luncleen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Women's Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary,' L. H. Sieglcr, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, Ii. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konncrtli, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseitk, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, K-. W. WaU ace, 641 Homer St.
LOS ANGELESSecretaiy-Treasurer, Frederick Kindle, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shenango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckalioe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
SITARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 1913 Southern Blvd.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bemiee Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
W A T OH THE n L A N C. O L TT M N EVERY W TC E K
New Fraternity Directory
NATIONAL FRATERNITIES 
Fraternity. House. Telephone No.
Oota Sigma Rho1146 Wlglitmun Street...................................Sclieuley 9376
Beta Tlieta Pi55-19 Forbes Stroot.........................................................Hazel 3320
Delta Tau Delta506-1 Forbos Stroot..,..........................................Sclienley 9231
Dolta Upsilon522-1 Liberty Avenue ......................................................Hiland S58
Kappa Sigma615 Clyde Stroot .......................................................Sclieuley 9-101
PI Kappa Alpha1807 Baum Boulevard..........................................Sclienley 92S5
Sigma Alpha Epsilon1915 Forbos Stroot................................Sclienley 9211
Sigma Nu1921 Forbos Stroet.................................... ..........................Sclieuley 659
Theta XI-1902 Forbes Street ...........................................................Sclienley 91-13
LOCAL FRATERNITIES
Delta Chi Rho5072 Forbes Street..................................................Schenley 90S0
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro Avenue .........................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta, Idaho Street..........................................................................................
Delta Xi254 Bellefield Avenue ......................................................Schenley 9102
Iota Sigma DeltaWilkins and Wightman...........................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Ambersou Avenue....................................Schenley 9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi5S12 Bartlett Street................................................Hazel 939S
Square and Compass Club6604 Northumberland Street............Hazel 930S
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forves Street.....................................................Hazel 9422
The administration, and trustees 
have been thrown into turmoil and 
are at their wits enGs to cope with 
a persistant, damn fool (no ladies, we 
dont apologize, it is the only word 
compatible with the situation), wren, 
who evidently knew no more about 
the use of a minor than a Maggie 
Murph who appears on the campus 
suggestive of Pillsburys Gold Medal 
Flour.
All the trouble was caused when 
said robin paused last Saturday to 
alight on. Mr. Orbias Fierce-Sparrowyou have probably noticed it, 
sort of a pale Vandyke brown color, 
with a touch of old roseto rest and 
seeing its image reflected in the 
polish of the enamel (we dont know 
how the polish got there, but we 
have Mr. Orbins word for its'existance) began to peck at the paint evi
dently mistaking its image for some 
fraternal adversary.
Miss Lissfelt was the first to no
tice this unwarranted attack and at 
once notified Mr. Orb in, who imme
diately rushed out. At first he re
membered the recent statement of 
somebody that they admired the car 
because of the good taste of its col
or, but after carefully examining the 
attacked spot and finding the' paint 
intact, Mr. Orbin decided that other 
desires than those of an epicure had 
prompted the bird.
The matter was forgotten until 
Monday when Dean Brown sallied 
forth to determine the source of a 
noise which bore a strong resem
blance to the tin shop when manned 
by commercials and discovered the 
indiefatiguable robin operating on Mr. 
Burreys Spiffy-Six but thinking that 
it could do no harm, let it continue 
its pegging.
Yesterday Mr. Burrey burst into 
the office in a terrible mood and de
clared that although, he could toler
ate a robins foraging on the enamel 
of his car; he lived in an apartment 
and having no garden, he had no 
use for fertilizer and did not propose 
to carry any home in his ear.
Unquestionably something had to 
be done and just as the matter was 
being presented to Dr. Balser, news 
came that the robin had thrust his 
beak through the side o<f somebodys 
Ford and was caught. Mr. Raincoat 
we think that is liis namewho 
polishes metal specimens in metallo
graphy, came to claim the Ford, 
which to give him credit showed the 
effect of his environment, and was 
.greatly aroused upon hearing the 
last word of Dr. Marks remarks: 
"Its a regular robin trap, and replied 
indignantly that it was almost new 
and not a rattletrap at all.
The robin was realeased in spite 
of the suggestion of sending it to 
the College of Fine Arts on the 
ground that there were a lot of queer 
birds there. The matter lias been 
referred to the Pschycology Depart
ment and It is believed that they will 
suggest sort of a satin finish put on 
with sandpaper to alleviate the toooft-occuring calamity.
We have purchased 122,000 
pairs U. S. Army Munson last 
shoes, sizes 5/z to 12, which 
was the entire surplus stock of 
one of the largest U. S. Govern
ment shoe contractors.
This shoe is guaranteed one 
hundred per cent solid leather, 
color dark tan, bellows tongue, 
dirt and waterproof. The ac
tual value of this shoe is $6.00.. 
Owing to this tremendous buy 
we can offer same to the public 
at $2.95.
Send correct size. Pay post
man on delivery or send money 
order. If shoes are not as rep
resented we will cheerfully re
fund your money promptly upon 
request.
National Bay State 
Shoe Company
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
Students Special 
Offer
Every student is thinking of 
a new spring hat with that in
dividuality and collegiate ap
pearance, to make its wearer 
swell with pride.
We have the best makes at 
prices that any pocket book can 
afford. One of the largest se- : 
lections in Pittsburgh in all 
shades and sizes.
Any student presenting this 
weeks issue of the Tartan and 
his registration card we will al- : 
low a ten per cent reduction on 
any spring hat purchased be
fore May 1st, 1923.
C. A. Heimert
Ever Foremost in New Ideas 
3614 Forbes St., Iroquois Block.
In Pittsburgh since 1882.
CONTENTS OF NEW
SONG BOOK LISTED
(Continued from Page One)
"Tech, Teoli, Tech, Tech, words 
by Bob Sclimertz, music by A. Herzberg.
"Dear Oldl Tech, words hy Jack 
Cameron, tune Dear Old Moonlight.
"Carnegie Tech (football song), 
music by F. E. Altdoerffer.
I Remember You, words and mu
sic by R. Schmertz.
"Eskimo Baby, words and music by 
R. Schmertz.
"Whimsical Women, words by R. 
Schmertz, music by Al Schoepf.
The Hieroglyphic Ditty, words by 
H. N. Muller, music by Lucille Flan
ders.
"Nile Song, words by R. Schmertz, 
music by M. Rosenthal.
Ship Ahoy, words by R. Schmertz, 
music by Carl Snyder.
"In Parcelona, words by R. 
Schmertz, music by Carl Snyder.
"Always Mine, music by Matt Frey, 
words by Haelan.
Moonlight Maid, lyrics by R. 
Schmertz, music by A. M. ONeill.
"Any Old Place At All, words by 
R. Schmertz, music by Gertrude Van 
Robinson.
"New Alma Mater, words by 
Charles J. Taylor, music by J. Vick 
OBrien.
Old Alma Mater, words by C. J. 
Taylor, tune of Austrian Hymn.
Mr. Lindeman spoke before the 
girls of the Social Work Department 
last week. This week Miss Reed of 
the Tuberculosis League will talk.
He (to lady in ultra gown)Do 
you like wearing evening dress?
SheJ feel that nothing is more 
becoraiii;g to me.
HeI have no doubt of it, wouldnt 
that be going to extremes?Poly 
Press.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits..........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
tiittttXtttttttt
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
^Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST.
iillllllllllllllllliilllllilllliliilllllllllll 
 Compliments jj|
I Skibo Inn 1
j After Every Meal
MOOTS
Top oil each meal with a bit ol sweet in the form of WRIGLEYS.
It satisfies the sweet tooth and aids digestion.
Pleasure and benefit combined.
K
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
*
*
