EVERYONE OUT 
ON TO 
CLEVELAND
USE THE Y
JOIN NOW
VOL. XVIII. NO. 4CARNEGIE INSTITU1E OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSfaURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1923
TARTAN GRIDDERS OVERWHELM CARNEGIE AND PITT MEN AT Y CONFERENCE ON TO CLEVELAND! ONLY TWO 
HOLLERANS YELLOW JACKETS
BY 28-0 IN ANNUAL STRUGGLE
Skibo Machine Trounces Thiel Squad 
By Heavy Attack of Line Plunges  
Thiel Players Advance to Plaid 
Two-Yard Line
SECOND TEAM USED IN GAME
By G. E. JACOBY
It was typical fall weather which saw Carnegie Tech celebrate 
her second gridiron victory of the season when Thiel College was 
overwhelmed to the tune of 28-0. The sudden drop of the mercury 
caused the scanty crowd to shiver in the stands in spite of a rather 
brazen sun which gave little in the way of warmth. Top coats, over
coats, and even mufflers and furs were well distributed throughout 
the enthusiastic crowd of rooters.
Shortly) after the sending of the 
Plebe game Hollerans squad o yel
low jackets swept down onto the field 
closely followed by Steffen and his 
red-clad Tartan machine. Previous 
reports had leaked out from the 
Greenville school that the Blue and 
Gold were coming to the Tartan bowl 
to win and that Coach Holleran had 
a fast eleven that could not be 
checked by the Skibo defense. The 
Plaid coaches working on this theory 
all week had developed a team that 
was ready to meet this onslaught and 
prove the reports untrue. Followers 
of the Skibos were a little uncertain 
as to the outcome of the fray and 
thronged the field earlj' to wait for 
the kickoff.
The Greenville lads were primed for 
victory and played a snappy brand o 
football but due to the superior weight 
of the Plaid were unable to break 
through the line for any appreciable 
distance. .Small but courageous, out
weighed but never lacking fighting 
spirit. Time after time they plowed 
into the line only to be blocked by 
the stonewall defense of Steffens pro
teges. The Tartan machine on the 
other side kept up its continual grind 
of varied attacks, line plunging, and 
end runs, carrying the ball almost at 
will.
During the initial period of the game 
Robertson and Brumbaugh carried the 
ball around the ends and through the 
line until it was placed on the 23- 
yard line where Robertson went 
through the lino for a touchdown.
The second period of the game saw 
several penalties and some spectacu
lar tackling. Mefort, right end, 
plunged through left tackle for a first 
down and shortly after he again tore 
around tho end and across the chalk 
line for a touchdown. Comfort, the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Carnegie Puppet to 
Try for First Prize
Strive to Win First Place in 
College Wit Contest
WILL TAKE SENIOR 
PICTURES MONDAY
Union Will be Open at 9:00 
a. m. for Thistle Pictures 
Come Early, Avoid Rush
The Senior pictures for the This
tle will be taken in the Carnegie 
Union beginning Monday, October 15, 
at 9 oclock under the direct supervi
sion of Mr. McKay who has the con
tract for this years Thistle pictures.
The first picture will cost $1.00 and 
every additional print will cost 30 
cents. While this is higher than last 
years cost, it is not at all excessive 
when everything is considered. The 
man who has only one picture will no
tice it most, but those who have three 
or four cuts in the book will be get
ting off cheaper than last year. It is 
too much to ask the photographer to 
make the first cut for 50 cents and 
last year the photographer lost a con
siderable sum on his contract for this 
reason.
After the Senior pictures are taken, 
the fraternity pictures will be taken. 
The board hopes to get this part of 
the work over as soon as possible, and 
asks the co-operation of the Seniors 
in getting the pictures taken. D. 
Garber has been appointed Senior 
Editor, while E. Miller is fraternity 
editor.
(Continued
MORE DAYS IN WHICH TO BUY 
PRELIM. TICKETS FOR THE TRIP
PEP RALLY FOR 
CLEVELAND TRIP 
AT ASSEMBLY
CARNEGIE TARTAN IS NOW 
MADE UP ON FRIDAY AND 
THEN ISSUED ON TUESDAY
Clever Impersonations By 
Herbert Polesie to be Novel 
Feature at Entertainment 
Be Sure to Come Out
MUSICAL IMPS TO PLAY
On Page Four.)
ICosmopolitan Club Meets j 
to Plan Annual Reception
Did you ever have a thought dawn 
upon you of becoming famous at col
lege? Especially you Plebes, who 
were, perhaps, the big cheese in your 
little home town? Well, right here is 
a chance to make a name for your
self on the campus of Carnegie Tech. 
That is, if you have any grit or punch 
or snap about yourself. Well, we sup
pose you must be interested, or you 
wouldnt have read this far. So heres 
the dope.
Every , college of any prominence or 
popularity, puts, out a monthly maga
zine, containing all the wit and pep 
of that institution. Now, in case you 
have never had the opportunity of 
hearing the name of the magazine 
Carnegie Tech produces, well have to 
tell you about it before we go any 
farther. It is the world-famous Pup
pet. And that is no exaggeration, 
either. The Puppet is known all over 
the country, so dont say you never 
heard of it before, or your associates 
will think youre a hicko, just arriv
ing from the Sahara desert or the 
pyramids of King Tut.
Judge is running a competition 
among all colleges, called College Wits 
(Continued On Page Four.)
The first regular meeting of the! 
Inter-Collegiate Cosmopolitan Club' 
was held Friday evening, October 5, 
at eight oclock, in the College Club, I 
143 North Craig street. Matters per-J 
taining to tho program for the year! 
were taken up, and many new for-1 
eign students were cordially enter
tained.
On next Friday evening, at Heinz 
Houst, Pitt Campus, the annual recep
tion to the new foreign students will 
take place. Dr. Clevan of the Pitt 
Faculty, and Miss Canfield of the 
Faculty) of the College of Fine Arto, 
will be host and hostess. Dr. and 
Mi's. Edmund Esquerre will assist. A 
hearty welcome Is extended to all 
foreign students.
DR. KERR WILL GREET OLD
TECK NON-CLUB MEMBERS
An interesting and attractive pro
gram has been arranged for General 
Assembly today. II. K. Kirkpatrick, 
popular English professor, will intro
duce a plan for a membership cam
paign of the local Y. M. C. A. A de
tailed explanation of this plan will bo 
found elsewhere in this issue.
Following this, a novel entertain
ment will be presented by Herbert 
Polesie, of the Drama Department. 1-Ie 
will give a series of impersonations 
of well-known men in an original 
sketch. We would tell you more, but 
it would spoil tho surprise, so come 
and see it.
One of the best features will be 
some snappy music by our popular 
dance musicians, the Collegiate Imps. 
They have prepared some special 
numbers for this appearance, and willpresent them with their usual clever
ness.
With tho Cleveland, and Washing
ton and Jefferson games in tho near 
future, a rally to work up onthuslasm 
for theso contests has been planned 
to bo presented at this assombly. A 
Bpecial train has been reserved for 
both of these trips and tho full de
tails concerning tickets, meals, trans(Contlnued On Pago Four.)
Under a. new system of makeup 
Tlie Carnegie Tartan is now issued 
on Tuesdays instead of Wednesday. 
For this reason all copy should b 
in The Tartan Offico by noon Thurs
day to insure publication in the is
sue of the following week.
Final makeup now begins Friday 
noon instead of Sunday. Copy re
ceived Friday may bo printed, but 
no guarantee- of its use can be made. 
Clubs nd organizations desiring 
writeups should notify1 The Tartan 
Offico early in the week to secure 
space in the makeup. The office in 
5-A, Industries, will be open every 
noon from 12:30 to 1:20 and from 
11:30 to 12:30 on Thursdays and Fri
days.
Copy should be left n,t tho offico 
or dropped through tho slot in tho 
door.
Y.M.C.A. STARTS 
DRIVE FOR NEW 
MEMBERS HERE
Thermometer in Commons to 
Record Progress Made in 
Drive Committee Hopes 
to Break All Records
Game Will Not be An Easy OneA 
Weak Team Without Prestige or 
Backing Could Not Finance Game 
in American League Park
TRAIN LEAVES P. R. R. AT 8:20
Have you bought your preliminary ticket, for the Cleveland trip? You 
have to possess ono to go. They will be on sale only two days moreshow 
somo pep! Talk it up around the campus. Let us have such a crowd that 
j tho P. R. R. will have to run two trains.
There has been a lot of talk on the campus that this game will bo very 
i easy for Carnegie and that the sooro will bo one sided. Dont listen to such
gossip. The people who spreud that 
misleading information are merely 
proving their ignorance of the facts. 
The writer has personally interview1- 
ed A1 Irwin, Captain Robertson, Jim
my Anderson and several other au
thorities. They do NOT possess the 
foolish optimism which seems to per
vade the campus. They all stated 
that it would bo a very hard game.
Another proof for those who know 
I nothing of football: The game will
bo played In the American League 
Park in Cleveland. Do you believe
USE THE YJOIN NOW
NEW DEPARTMENT 
DOES GOOD WORK
Dr. Connelley is Head of New 
Industrial Relations De
partment
COUNCIL OPPOSED TO 
PAINTING OF NUMERALS
The first regular meeting of the 
Tecknon Club will be held on Thurs
day evening, October 11, at 6:00 p. 
m., sharp, at the Shadyside Presby
terian Church. An attractive program 
has been arranged, followed by a 
business meeting. Dr. Kerr will say 
a word about the course he expects 
to follow this year, with a short 
greeting to all. It is hoped that all 
the old members will attend, and 
bring with them plenty of pep with 
which to start the new year.
Those desiring to be there please 
get in touch or sign up on the bul
letin boards in M. M. or on the cut 
before Tuesday night. - i
Hereafter all students involved in 
painting class numerals on walks and 
elsewhere on the campus will be hold 
directly responsible to the Student 
Council. At its meeting last week the 
Council passed a rule forbidding such 
painting. USET paint used is of such a 
permanent nature that the walks and 
buildings are permanently defaced, 
thus destroying the good appearance 
of the campus. It was further decid
ed that all violators of this rule are 
to be brought before the Council for 
trial and punishment.
The Plebe Regulations Committee 
proposed two additional Freshman 
rules which were acted on favorably. 
First, that all Plebes shall doff their 
caps when passing the Senior Fence. 
Second, that the Sophomores shall not 
keep Plebes from their classes at any 
time. Col. Day has received many 
complaints of this being done.
A1 Minetti and W. Fencil were ap
pointed assistant cheer leaders for 
the present school year. Ellis Rob
ertson was authorized to purchase an
other white sweater for the use of the 
cheer leaders.
Teasdale Barney outlined the pro
gram for today's General Assembly. 
It will be in the nature of a rally for 
the Cleveland trip. An orchestra and 
other entertainment have also been 
provided.
A new department at Carnegie Toch 
offers wonderful opportunities to tho 
students, as well as tho public at 
largo.
Dr. Connelley, who was one of tho 
three members of tho advisory com
mittee appointed by Mr. Carneglo at 
the time of the founding of tho Insti
tution, is now the director of tho de
partment* of Industrial Relations. For 
fifteen years ho was Doan of tho Colloge of Industries, and his wide expe
rience in tho industrial world makos 
him a vory capable man for tho posi
tion which ho now holds.
Dr. Connelley has aldod in forming 
advisory boards with nineteon of- tho 
leading manufacturing concorns In 
this city and vicinity. Tho,chief ob
ject of the department is to co-oporato 
with the various manufacturers in or
der to give the student tho kind of 
work that industry demands. There 
is a different demand inevery Held 
of industry, and tho student should 
have a knowlodgo of the basic prin
ciples in the field which he expects to 
enter. The department is to investi
gate the general requirments and em
phasize these points in tho courses 
offered.
There are many manufacturers in 
Pittsburgh who do not know of tho 
courses that are offered at Carnegie. 
Director Connelley makes arrange(Continued on Page Three.)
Today, immodiately following the 
Gonoral Assombly, the Carneglo Tech 
Branch of tho Y. M. O. A. will open 
| its annual enrollment oampaign, with 
j the motto .USE THE Y., JOIN 
NOW. In tho lobbly, on tho steps,
! and on tho sidewalks, tho committee,
J 250 strong, will be on hand to supply 
the registration Jilanks to tlio anxious 
! .students. Tho Bureau of Standards 
j and Statistics has It figured out that 
I 90 per cont. of tho students will on*
! roll this year, making a record drive. 
It Is hoped that tho report of tho 
committee will prove that the enroll
ment has piloted tlio 90 mark, and' 
I thus make a national rocord.
Last Monday evening, at tho last 
j mooting, hold in tho Commons, the 
j final plans woro drawn up. l)r. Baker 
j gavo a spooch which fillod the group 
of 200 with new enthusiasm about tho 
drive. Immediately following this, 
Dr. C. Wallace Petty', of the First 
Baptist Church, gavo an addross. Dr. 
Potty has always boon keenly Intor- 08tod In Y. M. C. A. work and his 
talk was full of Information, and In* 
torost. Mr. Schuckor, the manager of 
tho drive summed up tho situation.
(Continued on rage Two.)
ALUMNA WILL SPEAK 
AT Y. W. MEETING
CARNEGIE TARTAN STAFF 
WILL HOLD MEETING AT
OFFICE FRIDAY AT 4:30
The Carnegie Tartan staff will 
meet at 4:30, Friday, October 12. 
This meeting will be held immediate
ly after the make-up"' of the paper, 
and every member of the staff is ex
pected to be present. The Editor 
wants the staff members to be pres
ent during the, work of making ut> 
the paper, also.
New men, who may be interested 
in the work on The Tartan are asked 
to come to this meeting, and meet 
the 3taff.
NIGHT ACTIVITIES 
FEE PAID BY MANY
Tremendous Increase Shows 
Night Students Much 
More Interested
In connection with the registration 
of night students during tho past 
week, complete details of which aro 
not available, It Is of interest to note 
that more than five hundred Activi
ties Foes have boon paid. This foo 
Is optional for night Btudonts and last 
year there woro not quite ono hun
dred sold. An onormous increase in
deed, Tho payment of the fee entitles 
tho student to tho follownig:
1. A copy of tho student handbook.
2. A yoars subscription to tho Oarnogio Tartan which will lie mailed to 
any addross.
3. A book, of athlotic tickets which 
aro alono worth .$10.50 In admission 
to athletic ovents.
They ontltlo tho lioldor to 50 cents 
credit; towards general admission to 
all home football games, and full ad
mission to all haskot ball, baseball, 
tennis, and track ovonts during tlio 
college year 1023*24,
The holder of this book of tickets 
has first choice of Beats for all tho 
big games, Including those with Pitt, 
Lohlgh and Not.ro Dame, which will 
bo played on Forbes Field. Tho cou
pons can ho exchanged for reserved 
soats at the Graduato Manager's olllco 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Girls Glee Club Tryouts 
Will be Held Next Week
The Dope
Round Trip $4.73.
I*. R. It. train loaves Union
Station.........................8:20 A. M.
Arrives at. Euclid Station,
Cleveland ,P................ 12:00 M.
Game starts..................3:00 P. M.
Train loavos Euclid Station..
........................................7:20 I. M.
How To Get To Lenone Park.
Arrive at Euclid Street Sta
tion. Go east on Euclid from 
Fifty-fifth to East. Sixty-sixth 
street, then north on Sixty-sixth 
street to League Park.
Details as lo whore to ont and 
what, ncconiiuodiltlons the Alum
ni have made will he posted on 
the campus. This event will bo 
a great opportunity for an 
Alumni reunion,
'Palle It' up! Put this trip 
nero. U.-.v ui* inulte tho best 
of our opportunity to show our 
team that we are backing It and 
also make an everlasting Ini 
proslou on Cleveland.
A featuro of tho Y. W. C. A. moot
ing In tlio Margaret Morrison RocreatJon Hall, tomorrow at 12:20, will bo 
a short talk by Grace Rupert on tho 
opportunities for work In China, Miss 
Rupert Is a Carnogie graduato and 
was in instructor In the Margaret 
Morrison Colloge beforo she wont to 
China. Slie was tho faculty advisor 
of tho Y. W. C. A. in 1921, and tho 
Seniors who remember her aro eager 
to meet her again.
. The rest of the program will be In 
charge of Isabel Sowash. Some of the 
girls who attended the Y. W. C. A. 
conference at Eaglesmere in Juno 
will tell of their experiences. The 
Carnegie Y. W. C. A. sent ten repre
sentatives from their cabinet to tho 
conference which was attended by rep
resentatives from many of the eastern 
colleges.
TARTAN WILL PUBLISH LIST
OF CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS
A list of the officers of Campus 
Organizations will soon be published 
in The Tartan. Clubs or organiza
tions desiring to be- listed* should 
send in the names of the officers, 
their' addresses and phone numbers 
to The Tartan Office at once. In 
formation may be left at the Post 
Office or at 5-A Industries.
Beauty Comments to Teach Co-eds 
Who Simply Will Not Use Their Heads
BASTIAN GETS LOOSE FOR 20 YARDS
Have you looked into a mirror since . 
last week? Did you see any change? | 
Girls, it is quite tragic if there has j 
been no change, especially after read- j 
Ing the weekly Beauty Hints in The ! 
Tartan.
As a sort of recapitulation, think j 
back oyer the past few' weeks, and j 
see what has been said about being j 
beautiful. First, a word or two on j 
the general subject of beauty, and J 
why it should be more abundant on j 
the campus. We have a beautiful! 
campus, and with the efforts of Colonel 
Fairley in evidence all around, we 
can expect a more beautiful one. Now. 
girls, is it fair to Carnegie Tech to 
have a homely bunch of Co-eds run
ning all over a beautiful spot like 
this? No! Each and every girl
should feel a bit conscience stricken, 
and should see whether she is doing 
her share to make things look better.
As a second thought, the mater of 
figures was brought to the minds of 
the literal Co-eds. Not many changes 
have been seen in this respect, but 
Paul, the Gardner is doing his bit to 
keep thlngB in better shape here. How 
about it, girls, are you doing your bit? 
Twice a day, before a mirrornot a 
windowwill soon put you into shape.
Naturally, when you have to have 
your pictures taken for the Thistle, 
you will want to look as well as pos
sible. There is no time like the pres
ent to start looking well. Get out the 
old Kodak (advertisement) and prac
tice looking the birdie in the eye, 
(Continued On Page Four.)
Tryouts for tho Girls Gloo Club 
will bo bold this Wednesday at 4:30 
p. in., In the Assombly Room of tho 
Margaret Morrison Building.
As tho membership this year Is to, 
be llmltod the old saying, First 
conio, first served, will bo effective, 
so any girls In M. M. or Arts, who 
aro contemplating Joining tho club; 
should make a special effort to be 
present on Wednesday, October 10, 
at 1:30.
All the old members aro expected I 
to bo In the ranks with two prospec
tive members, so if you are an old1 
member, youd better bo on the look- ; 
out for two candidates; and If yourei 
a bashful non-member, but wish to,1 
become active In Glee Club work,! 
make yourself known to a- former; 
member.
Lets make the season of 1923-2-11 
the most successful year that the : 
Girls Glee Club of Carnegie Tech has ! 
over known.
: -------------------------------  j
that a weak loam with no prestige or 
backing could underlako as great an
undertaking as financing a game in 
tho American League Park? Use 
your common souse.
Here is the dope on tho train nched(Continued On Pago Four.)
Tournament to Decide 
Rifle Team Members
Gold and Silver Medals for 
Tournament Winners
DR. J. B. NATHANSON WILL
TALK TO CHEM. SEMINAR
Dr. J. B. Nathanson of the Depart- j 
ment of Physics, will deliver a series j 
of talks before the Chemistry Seminar j 
on The Fundamentals of the Modern 
Atomic Theory. These talks will be j 
of particular interest because of the j 
approaching visit of Niels Bohr, whose ! 
course of lectures dealing with his: 
contributions to our knowledge of the i 
structure, of the atom will be given ! 
on the campus during the latter part j 
of November. The Chemistry Semi- j 
nar will meet on Wednesday after- j 
noon at 4:30 in room 212'Science, and 
will be open to all who may wish to 
attend.
The first mooting of tho rifle club 
was hold oh Friday evening, October 
5th, at 7:30 p. m, At this time n new 
trousuror was elected and other im
portant business transacted,
A drive for now members Is to be 
made by tho Rifle Club. This Is nec
essary because of the fact that six of 
the members of last yoars team have 
either graduated or left school. In
stead of waiting until lato In tho win
ter to open the range and take in new 
members It has been decided to do 
this immediately, and thus give themembers the.benefit of a longer sea
son.
As soon as the range has been 
opened and opportunity given for 
practice, an open tournament will be 
held. The winners of the various 
contests of this tournament will bo 
given gold and silver medals.
All members are furnished ammuni
tion and rifles frae, and tho range offi
cer will provide instruction to mem
bers not familiar with the method of 
handling a gun. After a certain 
amount of proficiency is gained, tlio 
student is then eligible foi* a place 
on the rifle team, competing in the 
Intercollegiate as well as the National 
Rifle Association matches. Persons 
making the team are awarded five 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Engineers--Quit Yer Shovin
M. M.s Want a Little Oven
By Don Gardner.
(Dictated but not road.)
The much discussed and highly 
touted millonlum has at last arrived! 
Maggie Murphn have been Invited to 
fraternity house dances, Tau Botes 
have been named Murphy, tho Shilling 
has not reached a circulation of ovor 
two million, and tho Senior Fence ban 
been devoid of occupants on a windy 
day, but all theso aro as nothing com
pared to tho occurrence of Thursday, 
October 4 at 11:30 a. m.
Maggie Murph, that purveyor of ac
cumulated knowledge and high volt 
age beauty, that oasis of dates for the 
unsophisticated and violently senti
mental freshman, that post war image 
of No Mans Land, and In fact every
thing that expresses the possibilities
of a bevy of young females intent on 
highor education, was the scene of the 
dramatic exhiliratin above men
tioned. The fog of last woek and 
long skirts have kept us in tho dark 
wo poor mortals of tho commoner 
clay who delvo In moments of Inertia 
rather than momonts of ocstacy and 
who wield l>o slap stick in lieu of a 
lipstickand until now we have failed 
to realize tho momentous power wield
ed by the exponents of collegiate girl
hood.
Wield It they did and the results 
were truly amazing. Woman's pro
pensity for getting cohl at opportune 
momonts was the basis of this charm
ing little bit of finesse. Somehow it 
seems the janitor underestimated the 
(Continued On Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1923
CwnEp lattati
Published every week by undergraduates o the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council._____________________
Entered In Ilio Postonico of Pittsburgh HY second-class matter.___________>
11. i-. SIMPSON ............................................................................................. Editor-In-Chief
Telophone Schenley 9148
w. CUNNINGHAM .............................................................................. Business Managoi
Telephone Schenloy 9211
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley 9181)
FRED C. SMITH........................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T PHELPS ......................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT .......................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9079
MARK S. DOWNES ................................................................................ Associate Editor
M il WILSON ..................................................................................... Associate Ed.tor
W. WINN INC! ......................................................................................................... Nowu Editor
Telephone Schenley 9070
F. I). ROSSINI ........................................................................................... NowH Editor
Telephone Schenley 9070
A. S. ANDIU5WS ................................................................................................. Nuwb Editor
Tclopuotie Sclienley 9211
K. C. CRAZIER .............................................................................................. Alhlotlc Editor
Telephone Sclionloy 0143
R. W. SLBATH ................................................................................................ Photoempliur
W. K. .JKFKUIOY ...................................................................................... Exchange Editor
K. I'. COUSK .IK........................................................................................................ Art Editor
DON GAHDNEU ............................................................................................. Spocliil Wrltur
'I'. .1. DEMPSEY ................................................................................. Circulation Manager
JO BROUDY ....................................................................... Assistant Business Manager
W. Al. OlIJSON.........................................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Estelle Garibaldi, Elizabeth Gordon, .1. A. Dougherty, A. E. Krogh, R. G. 
Kennedy, h, I-f. Harris, K. Fulmer, M. D. Kulfelz.
ATHLETIC CONTRIHUTORS 
G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Russimeli.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
1). Moskovltz, J. W. Motro, P. Edle, R. h. Sandrock, A. D. Grodner, E. 
Ij. Reeves.
Tho Edltor-in-Chie!.' is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Ed.tor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature, will be withheld if desired. All news Items must be in tlio student 
postoillce before 4:80 Thursday.
Tartan OillcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oilice lioursDaily 12:30- 1:20. _______________________________________________________________
VOTINGYOUR DUTY!
I t is 1)11(! prroBtive ol! every citizen in tho United States to vote. 
More, it is the duty oJ! every citizen to go to the polls on every voting1 
day and cast Iris ballot.Back in the revolutionary days ol! 1770 when our forefathers 
shed their blood for the foundation ol! your right to have a part in 
deciding tvho shall rule as the duly-elected head of your government, 
there was a .just and sincere cause for an uprising, backed by a desire, 
to rule iltemselvtfft.
And today, there is ;just as just a cause for the peoples of our 
United States to go to the polls and decide who shall be the ruling 
heads of our land. In the past, during the revolutionary period, the 
just cause was one of injustice being dealt out by an appointed offi
cial. Today, the just cause is that of the ever-present -tendency upon 
a part of the voting public to neglect their duty, and stay away from 
the polls, with the result ol! interest control of everything, oftimcs 
much to the detriment of that which our forefathers fought in 70.
This little thought upon the subject of voting has a reason and 
a purpose. A little laxity on the part of Certain student-citizens of 
Carnegie Tech is the reason. Its purpose is to spur these self-same 
students to pay more attention to their voting duties in the future.
Here at (aruegie we have our own little United States' 
merely under a different name and perhaps a little difference in or
ganization. But, fundamentally the governing body of the Carnegie 
student body is no different from the governing body in Washing
ton, in that both are duly* elected by a/ voting public.
It isnt fair to everyone concerned to have an unappreciative 
public who will, not go to the polls. Therefore, this editorial is an 
appeal to all to attend all class meetings, all assemblies, and when
ever I her! is a voting day, ( 'AST YOUll BALLOT.
II is your DUTY !
PLEBE-SOPH MEMORIALS
 Visitors coming to our campus notice the defects before they see 
the beauties, - and among those defects are the large numerals that 
various,olaNHos have adorned the campus with in various spots.
Concerning this au alumnus has the following to say: While 
on a motoring trip this summer I hod occasion to stop at Mcadvillc, 
.Pa,, and I visited the campus ol! Allegheny College. At ono point I 
noticed a large boulder on the lawn on which was carved the I'ollow
ing inscripl ion :
'Sophomores ol 1880'
I paused to .relleet how much bettor was the appearance of Ninth a 
memorial as compared with smears ol! rod and green paint depicting 
the valor of various elasses which I have seen on the campus of Caruegie Tech.
"It seems to me that a dignified memorial ol this sort is some
thing that the undergraduate (tan remember with honor after he is 
through school; whereas, a few daubs ol paint defacing the appear
ance ol our buildings is something that wo do not care to remember.
Whether any memorial, such as the large boulder mentioned by 
this alumnus is used or not some thought should be given the use of 
paint on the cai'npus by the Plebe classes, for it secnls to be almost a 
tradition that sometime within the life of the iirst-yoar class they 
must display their numerals on points of vantage about tho campus.
We do not believe that it is the fault entirely or the act of the 
incoming men. They are merely following the path made' by many 
former members of the Carnegie Clan. Freshmen would not ordin
arily think of painting and defacing parts of the campus if these 
acts were not suggested by similar acts of years before and even 
suggestions from upperclassmen.
Wlmt we must do is, to declare ourselves opposed to such class 
activities and take pride in our campus.
COMMENTS
THE VALUE OF A FATHER
1 !'srAPsTr"PTAinl'R,0-T-C> GUARDSMENil ... .... .. GIVEN Carneg iPru
Guards Authority Should 
be Respected By All
Anil while wii'je ridili Ule editorial The lt. O. T. C. IHJ been called inbroncho we might raerUlon tlmt rival | a
of ours "On the Plaid Screen.' He 
must be hard up for postage stamps ;
By Hal.
We jumped the fence into the edi-1 Students Cooperation Asked
Father! What a host of memories I torial backyard again and the Big 
that little name of two syllables i Chief couldn't get rid of us. Hes 
brings to most of us! What does the * mado all kinds of threats but we have 
term father mean to you, we ask? ( become hardened to such things.
Impossible of de/lnitlon, you say, and 
we agree wltii you whole heartedly.
Webster says that a father Is a male 
parent or ancestor, an originator or 
founder. True, but how little that 
definition Implies, how few of the 
many pleasantthoughts it conveys to 
our minds when we think of our own 
Dads back home!
Dads aro "funny creatures;" not at 
all like Mothers, Mother Is quite out
spoken In her affection for ber son 
or daughter as a rule, while Dad 
well, Dad would rather take it all out 
In thinking, He must represent, the 
sterner element of the. family, you 
know, and must not appear at all sen
timental, no matter how much he sor
rows inwardly at your troubles or re
joices within at your success.
But Dad likes an outward repres
sion of your feeling toward him occa
sionally. It Is only natural that he 
should, you say, Inasmuch as he Is fur
nishing tlu.' wherewithal, in the ma
jority of cases, which enables you to 
enjoy the privileges of a college edu
cation,
when lie has to write to his girl Marge 
through our respectable columns.
On giving the team the once over 
last Saturday, our dope is that its go
ing to be a typical Tartan eleven when 
It Jias acquired a little more experi
ence and teamwork. Not only the 
regulars but the subs who went dur
ing the latter part of the game showed 
that they were frequently able to pen
etrate the Toledo line for touchdowns.
This man McCarthy, loolin like a 
real honest to goodness discovery in ( 
tho way of a quarterback. He surely 
tore up the turf on those long runs.
And say, did you catch tha't old Tech 
spirit as It romped through the Plaid 
cheering section? And didn't that 
snake dance bring back memories of 
True again, but your fathers the old days? Those, were the days 
financial interest in youand AVe hos-! when we celebrated even if the score 
itate to call It suchis only a small was going the wrong way. Hold on 
part, au infinitely small part of that to this spirit now that you have it for 
great intangible feeling with which were going to need it with W. & J., 
he thinks of his child here at Car-, Pitt, Lehigh and Notre Dame casting
riogie Tech, pursuing a course of study 
calculated to make a better man or 
woman,
Yes, your Dad is interested, intertheir shadows before.
Have you seen those queerly clad 
chaps who scoot out of the Langley 
ested mightily in your welfare, and Lab and up into .Sclienley Park late 
he wants to come up to see you, | In the afternoon? We'll let out the 
whether son or daughter. All be is secret that theyre the cross country 
waiting for is an Invitation extended squad; If you have a pair of long 
by Ills kiddie" in the proper spirit, I legs, and plenty of guts youre cordialand hell bo here. Dad is human. Give 
him a chance. Its up to you to see 
that lie is not slighted.
ly Invited to join them. And take 
note, Plebes, this invitation includes 
you.
We have lieard that some of the 
Plebes arent taking kindly to Plebe 
Regulations. It must be that they 
cant see that these regulations are 
a Carnegie tradition and are meant 
for their own good rather than being 
, . . just the vindictiveness of the Sophs.Uoiiul.itlo.iH Committee In Margaret Th|nk lt ovor> plGl)e8i mld try t0 mM
CHANCI: MAGGIE MURPH 
COMM. ON REGULATIONS
Beginning witli this year tlio Plebe
MoitIboh will be appointed by the 
Senate and will consist of one Sen
ior (who is a member of the senate), 
two Juniors (one of whom will be 
the Vico President of the Junior 
Class), and two Sophomores. A sub
committee' of five Sophomores will 
also be appointed to help enforce 
tho Plebe Regulations.
The committee which has been ap
pointed for tills year follows: Mar
that 1927 link a strong one on Quali
fication Day.
Can you imagine a real honest to 
goodness train ride, a birds eye view 
of Cleveland and a football game all 
on the same day? Well, if you can, 
you had better come around next Sat
urday with $4.75 and hop tho spe
cial. If you are able to think when 
you get back, you will find that the
11,a Zimmornnui, Senior Reprenenw1 ^ ,mU lllc >ia8 l,e "'e11 T?1',, . i . , ... .. wlvnn miv Tv SSINWA mnrpli Hirnnen Iliotivo; Isabel Sov/ash, Vice President 
Class; Mary Gmvlord, \
When our Kilties march through the 
square in the Fifth City it will fall
lor llopreaentatlve; Mary Dale',i ,l,l| 1n,0BB thol'o lire a bunch of real 
homoro npfeBontat'W; Frances ,,|H|-,lod UBlmeclts. with the Carpi Junior 
.Tun
Sophomore Repi'oauuuvuyu, RGDVLMuco. . _ , ... .., . .. .
Talbol, Sophomore nop,-eSe,.tatlvo. T0Ch wl,lt' ,'00tlg 1,1 theIr
I ho sub-committee consists of Mary I When tho old Saint sees tho Tarll111, Holon Carrao, Dorothy Cook,.anH coining with their war whoop 
Camille ODonnol and Helen Weir, j i8sulng from their tliroats, lie Avill 
For throe offenses the Freshmen turn over In his grave. We liato to 
will bo brought before tho sub-coin- urge you to spend so much money 
mlttoo and tho two Sophomore Rop-|wIth such carefree haste, but if you 
resontatlvos of tho Plebe Regulations dont go to Cleveland, you will never 
Committee. For llvo offenses the eul- |)0 forgiven by our editorial and cop'rlt will be brought before the Plobo luninal mind.
Regulations Committee. Should a girl I ---------------------------------
bo roportod for breaking tho rogula-1 -> j >. .
Hons more than eight times, she will rOrDCS DOrmitOriCS
bo brought before tho Sonat
detachment of 25 picked men marched onto the football field, armed to 
the neck,, ready to serve the man
ager. Each and every) guard was 
armed with a cartridge belt. These 
guards were posted at vantage points 
on the field, where they could see the 
gome well, and at the- same time 
prevent others from seeing it. With 
a j/mud and haughty air, self consci
ous of their newly acquired posi
tions the men walked to and fro, 
during the entire game. When the 
final whistle blew, the guards were 
called, counted and dismissed.
Seriously, this step lias been taken 
to prevent certain undesii^ible ele-, 
ments from over-running the field 
and proximity. Uninvited guests 
were prohibited from entering the 
reserved seats grandstand, and also 
from crowding the side lines. The 
step .also did away with the super
fluity; of policemen, whose duty it 
was to congregate in one corner of 
the field and talk over the Pitt game 
of the previous week. The R. O. T. 
C. men have all been picked from a 
number of volunteers, and will work 
throughout the season both at Tech 
Field, and at Forbes Field. Their 
work is not always pleasant, for it is 
never nice to make someone else un
comfortable, but they work for the 
good of Carnegie Tech. They stand 
for a lot of razzing" and go about 
their duty cheerfully. There are just 
a few things which the students 
might do to help the guards in their 
work.
In the drst half, dont try to cross 
from the bleachers to the reserved 
seat section.
Try to' use the exit nearest you? 
seat, rather than trying to crowd out 
of the main gate.
Try' to keep from dropping valua
bles and gloves under the grand
stand, for it leads to many embarras
sing situations when small boys are 
sent under the stands to retrieve 
lost articles. Many complaints have 
come into the Graduate Managers 
Office concerning those miscreants. 
Do -your bit to help in this way.
As Carnegie students set the ex
ample in oneying the Guards, for they 
only act as they are ordered, and this 
will help the outsiders to understand 
what the Guards are supposed to be 
doing. Dont encoura ge in fractions 
of the rules by kidding the Guards 
give them your help, for they need 
it ,badly.
Remember, the Guards are merely 
I students and have no innate power 
of authority. They represent the 
management, and have 110 means 
whereby they can enforce their rules, 
other than tlio requests they make 
of the students. Carry out their re
quests and help to keep things in 
good order on tho field.
It is always refreshing to find an; 
organization which believes it has I 
something worth while to offer man-j 
stake its exist-kind, and which w: 
ence upon that belief Not often is 
such an organization found and it ia 
therefore worthy of note when if. does 
exist. .
The Young Mens Christian Asso
ciation leaves doubt in no man's 
mind as to its position 011 several 
issues of the day. That such is the 
case is well known to us all, but it 
is of particular interest now because! 
of the campaign for members which! 
the Carnegie Branch is conducting.
When, about two yeai-3 ago the Y 
first appeared on the campus, there; 
were many predictions, most of them 
sceptical, as to its probable success. 
Most agreed that there was a defin
ite need for the Y, but it seemed so 
hopeless to expect great things to 
come from that little office in the 
Central Building. I11 spite of the 
limitations of its locations the Y 
has dauntlessly been working away 
for THE COOD OF CARNEGIE1 
TECH, and is now one of the most 
powerful forces on the campus lag-[ 
ging, as Don Gardner might say.1 
only a little behind -the Math De-I 
partment.
The first year tlla.t the red triangle; 
was on the campus it included among! 
its members 25 per cent of the men j 
students; last year 40 per cent be-! 
longed. The tangible results of thc| 
two years activities are listed in an
other column, but the intangible re
sults are after all much more in
teresting. How many of us have 
not had a cheery smile as we wan
dered past the door of the office? 
Remember last year, during, the 
Notre Dame game, when the snow 
was on the ground, who provided 
blankets for the bare knees or uie 
drum major and his conorts? Why, 
the Y, of course! Who looked 
after the food at Penn State? Who 
arranged the Dorm Smoker? Who 
visits the sick? Who is always 
ready with (a helping word, when 
given half a chance? Right, you 
guessed it, the Y"!
This, column ia not in general de
voted to advertise any organization. 
It IS FOR THE GOOD OF CARNE
GIE TECH, first, last and all the 
time, and it is with this view only 
that you are now asked to give your 
support. Any organization, 110 mat
ter what its name, that does the 
work that the Y does here de
serves support. The Y helps us. 
Will you help it? Choose your own 
path, but keep in mind the good of 
Carnegie Tech.
PLEBES AND SOPHOMORES
v The Tartan is in need of some -> 
men to work on the Business v 
Staff. The work is interesting vi 
I* and there is remueVation for the v I 
man who does good work. The vj 
v man who shows the best work v 
< has a good chance of becoming -l-\ 
> Business Manager of Tiie Tar- v 
tan. The. jcb is competitive, *!*
* and the best man always wins. .* 
?I- The Business Manager of The *
Tartan will be in the office * 
v every Monday from 1:30 until *.* 
3:00 and on Wednesdays from *! 
v 3:30 until 4:30. If you find that * 
> it does not suit your conven- *
* ionce to see him at either of
?!* these times, please get in touch v
* with him by calling Schenley *
9211. *
MUSICAL CLUBS TO 
BEGIN REHEARSALS
Kovack to Head Mandolin 
ClubGlee Club Starts Work 
Under Old Director
PROMINENT VISITOR
AT CARNEGIE TECH
Thistle Class Pictures
to be Taken This Week
Girls at 5064 ForbesNearing Completion
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9
General Assembly............................11 $0 A. M., Carnegie Music Hall
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11
Chapel....................................................12:50 P. M., Little Arts Theater
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12
Cosmopolitan Club at Heinz House....................... ........Pitt University
Smoker lor Engineer and R. O. T. (. Students.............Port Pitt Hotel
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13 
-St. Ignatius Football Came....Train leaves Union Depot at 8:15 A. jVL 
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 14
M usical Club Rehearsal.................................................2:00 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20
W. & J. Football Came..................................................Washington, Pa.
MONDAY, OCTOBER-22 
I lecture by Hamilton Holton World CourtM.....Carnegie Music Hall
ASSEMBLIES
10 Have Wiener Roast .Elections Have Been Held in
All Dormitories
(hi lOcitobur 12 tlio Kli'l ol' C0G-I 
I Forbon Htroot, aro giving it wiener 
roam In their own back yard.
This will bn their first ovont of the 
your and all I he girls aro looking 
forward to a good ttmo. Each of the 
girls will Invite a man to make mat
ters a little more Interesting. At a 
house mooting lust night, food and 
wood committees were appointed, and 
a menu decided upon. The eati? 
will be wieners, rolls, pickles, marshmellows and coffee. The time de
cided upon is seven oclock. The 
affair will bo for tho girls of G0G-1 
only. Np outsiders are invited.
SOPHOMORE ENGINEERS
ELECT CLASS OFFICERS
ENGINEERING
The first studont assombly in Sci
ence was hold on October 2 In Room 
218, iS'cionoe. Most of the proceedings 
were for tho benefit of the Freshmen, 
clustered In the rear of tho room. 
Talks were given by W. II. Ryan, 
president of the Student Senate, W. 
ii. Mott, Director of the College of 
Engineering, and by the heads of the 
various departments of the College 
of Engineering;
Tiie assembly was opened with the 
singing of Dear Old Tech. The 
president of the Senate then intro
duced Director Mott, who after a 
short talk, in turn introduced the sev
eral department heads.
Immediately after the assembly,
Dean Turbali explained the intor-Crutornlty rushing rules to Ilio Freshman 
class with the advice to think well on 
these affu 1rs.
INDUSTRIES
i At the first Industries Assembly, a 
j talk was given by Dean Morris, tie 
i emphasized the importance of regular 
I attendance to classos. He also ad: vised that each studont try to make 
tho most of the opportunities afforded 
j by the Institution outside tho class 
room.
After a lively discussion, the AssemI bly went 011 record as being in favor 
j of the Senate form of government in 
j preference to the present system.
> The new plan, as devised by the Four
College of Engineering special class 
elections held last Friday gave to 
John M. OConnor the presidency of 
the Sophomore class and to C. R. Wil
son the ofilce of Sophomore senate 
representative.) The junior votes 
were thrown out because a majority 
of the class did not express their 
choice. Another election to decide the 
junior officers will bo held soon.
The first Sophomore elections re
sulted in ties between O'Connor and 
West for president, and between Wil
son and Bowron for senate represen
tative.
The new girls' d 0111 i tor lea aro at
last being settled and just a little
cosmos out of chaos Is assured 
For a long while painters and plumb
ers and carpenters kept things back, 
j The girls were unable to get settled, 
and nothing could be dono in the 
wuy of organizing. Now, however, 
tho houses are well 011 the way to 
being real units in Carnegie life.
15072 will be ready for the girls next 
week, and with that done, affairs
will be well' along towards comple
tion.
Elections have been held in all the 
houses, with the following results:
50S0 Forbes StreetPresident, Nell 
Hamilton; vice president, Bernice 
Rentz; secretary-treasurer, Ruth 
Swanson.
5072 Forbes Street  President, 
Helen White. (No other officers 
elected.
5064 Forbest Street  President, 
Sara Mae Everett; vice president, 
Elsa Wagner; secretary-treasurer, 
Alma Fosythe.
Tho class pictures for the Thistle 
will bo talcon oarly tills year in order 
to avoid tho rush when the individual 
pictures aro called for. The photog
rapher has asked the Thistle Board to 
urge tho students to co-operate with 
him as best they can, so that the work 
can be roducod to a minimum. In 
othdr words, the students, of the va
rious groups are asked to bo 011 hand 
for their pictures, 011 tho day set apart 
for their group and at the time stated. 
A schedulo for the pictures is printed 
herewith:
Industries JuniorsThursday, Octo
ber 11, at 12:20. Tlio picture will be 
taken at the side entrance to the 
building.
Science JuniorsWednesday, Octo
ber 10, at 12:20. The picture will be 
taken 011 the Machinery Hall steps.
Science SophomoresW ednesday,
October 10, at 12:30. The picture will 
be taken on the Machinery Hall steps.
Margaret Morrison CollegeFriday, 
October 12, at 12:30. All groups to 
be taken in front of the building.
College of Fine ArtsTuesday, Oc
tober 16, at 12:20. All classes except 
Seniors, to be grouped in front of the 
Arts building.
Make it a point to find out when and 
where your class picture is to be ta
ken, and then be there.
I TEA DANCE AND SOCIAL FOR
EPISCOPALIAN STUDENTS
Radio Receives Football
Scores at Thiel Game
Through the co-operation of the 
Military Department, the Electrical 
Equipment Laboratory and tho Ath
letic Association, a more rapid, exact 
and efficient method of securing the 
scores of other games for announce
ment at Carnogio games, has been!
A tea. dance and social will be held 
at St Peters Church, corner Fifth 
and Craft avenue, on Friday, Octo
ber 12, from 4:30 to 6:30 for all the 
Episcopal students. This is under 
the auspices of I he Whitehead Epis
copal Club, composed of all Episco
pal students in the Pennsj'l vania 
College for Women, and the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh and Carnegie
Toch.
We take this opportunity of exSchool Rgulation Committee and in
dorsed by tho Student Council for the 
regulation of Plobo trials, was unani
mously accepted by the Assombly and 
will go into offoct at once,
Tho annual Slue Nomlno Scholar
ship was presented to Dwight. Boode.
The regular committees were ap
pointed and plans laid for a success- Electrical Equipment Department sell Q,no acquainted. Freshmen are osful year. up and operated tho wireless poolally invited. Remember tho time
at the Tower, A direct line telephone an(j, pjacc 
from tho 'Power to the Field House | 
was installed by tho Athletic Asso
ciation. There wore two radio sets
developed. The Military Department  ten,llnR nn invitation to all such stulurnlshed the radio apparatus, the (]onj8 ftttend this dance, and beMARGARET MORRISON
FIRST M. M. TEA DANCE
WAS HELD LAST FRIDAY
V
Last weok Director Brood gavo\a ............................................ ....... ......... ........
most humorous and Interesting talk' In the Tower so that different scoros, _______
:il,111 liar iwonl Hutu]!,,nn 'trip. Tlio woro rooolvoit Imulnnoously. Tho fll.8t u, (lnnc0 or th SPnaon
vivid description of her experiences in 1 The crowd at tho game manifested j wus ijGld, last, Friday by the Sopliotho air when she took the trip from groat enthusiasm 011 receiving tlio more class of Margaret iCrorrlson. a^lio 
London to Paris was delightfully fun-1 scores and appreciation should be ex- proceeds wore to go toward the 
ny. She promised to tell about her preasod especially to Captain' Walker, Freshman scholarship wliicli(the class 
j \ isit. to the Vatican in Rome und about Mr. Aiken and Mr. Zorger for thisl of 26 has undertaken to support. The 
her interview with His Holiness Pope . service, committee in charge consisted of:
Pius XI at a later assembly. ----------------------------- ! Chairman, Madeline Dale; publicitv,
After a few short announcements LOST Hilda Cooper: music. Elizabeth J.
by Blair Jessop, President of the Stu- ----------- j Gordon.
dent Senate, the assembly was closed | iu ticket booth at tho Toledo foot- --------------------
with the singing of Dear Old Tech. ball game Saturday, a large white 1 LOST
The Plebes were requested to remain sweater and bill fold. Reward if re'- - 
for roll call. | turned to Dean Tarbells office. Bill 1 Gray tweed cap left in Science
I fold contained fraternity identification I Buildins:. Finder please return to 
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS card. i Cliem. Store. Room 213, Science
Among things of Interest which 
have happened on the campus this 
past weok, is the visit to our school 
by none other than Dr. Fred P. Keppel, newly elected president of the 
Carnegie Corporation. Dr. Keppel 
succeeded Dr. H. S. Pritchell, the late 
president and formally took office Oc
tober first.
Dr. Keppel is a widely known man 
a Columbia graduate and acted as 
Third Assistant Secretary of War un
der Secretary Baker during the recent 
European conflict.
It may be of interest to note that 
Dr. ICeppels first official act wras to 
visit the Carnegie Institute., 1-Ie spent 
tho entire day, Friday, inspecting the 
different departments at Carnegie 
Toch. Wo should feel proud of the in
terest the new head of the Carnegie 
Corporation takes in our school.
Radio Course Continued 
in Night School Classes
Because of the great success of 
the radio course given . at summer 
school, the Electrical Equipment has 
decided to continue this course 
through the winter months. This 
subject will be given in night school 
over a perior of twenty-eight weeks. 
There will be six hours a week 
which includes one hour of code 
practive, two hours of lecture, and 
three hours of laboratory work. This 
radio course would be of a decided 
advantage for hardware dealers and 
salesmen, school teachers, and ama
teurs. Since the number of men to 
be enrolled will be limited those 
wishing to take this subject should 
make immediate application.
Y. M. C. A. STARTS
DRIVE FOR NEW
CARNAEG IAEA
(Continued From Page One.) 
in his talk. The Y. W. C. A. girls 
acted as waitresses, and the service 
surpassed1 that at the Ritz.
It is planned to place a. large ther
mometer in the Commons, which will 
record the progress of the drive, dur
ing the three days. Last year this 
plan was followed, and the thermom
eter was broken in the act of record
ing the . drive subscriptions. This 
year a larger thermometer lias been 
procured, but it is hoped, by the com
mittee that it may be broken as the 
one last year wasiu doing its best 
to keep up with the drive.
In case any student cannot be 
served with a blank for enrollment 
at the time of tho Assembly, the 
committeemen will be posted aroujid 
tho Campus, so there is no excuse for 
anyone going without subscribing to 
the drive.
Last year tho Carnegie Tech Y 
was represented by ten delegates at 
the Silver Bay Conference, and with 
the new plans for the drive, it. is ex
pected that more men will be sent 
next year. Secretary Davis wishes to 
announce that if any organization 
wishes to secure the use of tho 
Schenley Pool, it may do so by mak
ing the necessary arrangements with 
him.
Mr. Stephen E. Kovach, Jr., 23, 
prominent in musical circles of the 
campus during his college career and 
student director of the Mandolin Club 
for the last four years has been ap-; 
pointed director of the Mandolin Club 
for the coming season.
Under the student directorship of 
Mr. Kovach' the Mandolin Club in con
junction with the Glee Club flourished 
in a most satisfactory manner last 
year.
Concerts were given in Ohio, New 
York, and Pennsylvania which gave 
the club a high position in respect to 
other college organizations of a like 
character.
At the first meeting of the clubs 
last Sunday, probably the largest num
ber of aspirants that the club has ever 
seen were present. There were fifty 
aspirants to the orchestral positions 
and eighty for singing.
The Glee Club under the director
ship of Mr. Edwin P. Rhiel, promises 
a future equally as bright as the Man
dolin Club and plans are under way 
for an exceedingly prosperous year. 
It is rumored that the clubs will give 
joint concerts in Youngstown, Buffalo, 
Cleveland, Erie, Philadelphia, and sev
eral other cities.-
Secretarial Club Holds
First Meeting of Year
On Wednesday, September 26, the 
Margaret Morrison Secretarial Club 
commenced activities for the coming 
year with a tea in honor of its new 
members. Mr. E. V. Page, head ot 
the Secretarial Department, began 
the program with an address of wel
come.
The dizziest of the Dizzy Eight 
Orchestra furnished the music, and 
Bernice Zollars, with her clever reci
tation, furnished the laughter. Many 
new acquaintances were formed and 
all voted a good time.
The clubs program for this year 
is especially interesting and promises 
to be both profitable and enjoyable 
to all the members. The club officers 
are: Faye Glass, president; Adah
Borgerding, vice president; Miriam 
Bond, social chairman; Catherine 
Moren, treasurer, and Sarah Sussman, secretary.
SHIVERING GIRLS LEAVE
MAGGIE MURPH CLASSES
The Maggie Murplis enjoyed a short 
vacation from classes last Thursday 
when the temperature in Margaret 
Morrison fell so low that it was 
deemed necessary to close the build
ing at 11:30.
The effect of the announcement that 
the building would be closed was sim
ilar to that of a fire alarm. Each one 
picked up her books and rushed for 
the door. In the chemistry labora
tory the apparatus was swept into the 
drawers110 one thought of the break
age fee. Doors were banged, locker^ 
were slammed, and there was mucR 
dashing ai*ound. At 11:31 the build
ing was deserted.
I Grace Reformed | 
I Church ?
Dithridge and Bayard Streets
Rev. Frederick C. Nau, D.D., 
Pastor.
Students Cordially Invited to 
All Services.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS 
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9. 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICSn
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
SLIPPERY ROCK WINS 
CLOSE BATTLE, 7-0
Strange things do happen 'neath the midnight sun, and equally strange 
things do happen when the Carnegie Tartan decides to depart from timehonored customs of yore and puts itself onto the campus one day ahead of 
schedule. The most deplorable instance was when part of this column got 
lost from its better half last week and appeared in the most astonishing po- i 
sitions. But the reorganization is complete now, and no further confusion 
is anticipated.
Plebes Lose Real Thriller to 
Normal School in Last 
Period--State Next
FATHER'S DAY
For many, many years every dog has had his day. But it is regrettable 
to relate that only recently have the fathers of American Youth come to be 
looked upon as deserving of especial recognition, and so now we have a 
new tradition starting at our Institute of Technology.
Fathers Day will be celebrated this year for the first time on the occa
sion of the Carnegie Tech-Lehigh game, November 3. Mr. G. L. Tilbrook, 
aided by a group of students representing the fraternities and dormitories, 
is rapidly shaping plans for the day, details of which will be announced as 
soon as possible.
In the meantime, let the lessons slide and write to Dad. Ask him to 
please come to see his son or daughter, or both, as the case might be. The 
football game will be worth coming many miles for, but besides that there 
are the fraternity and dormitory arrangements for entertaining the Dads, 
and the faculty is holding open house in the different departments.
The movement is not.a new one in the collegiate world. Penn State, 
for example, has a regular Days Association through, which the fathers of 
students retain their interest in the school long after said students have 
graduated or otherwise made their exit.
Come on, everybody! Lets invite Dad around for November thirdAND 
DONT FORGET MOTHER!
THAT SNAKE DANCE AGAIN
Last Saturday at the football game there was a snake dance. It was 
a good snake dance, as snake dances go. But gosh, to an observer from the 
opposite side of the field, the stands looked, almost as full during the dance 
as they did before.
It looked as though the majority of the rooters would rather stay in 
their seats and be cold than start the blood circulating via a little demon
stration -of school spirit. Perhaps the situation could be improved if a | 
method could be devised whereby those who participate in the snake dance 
would be reasonably sure of getting the same seats or equally good ones j 
after the exhibition. We have not thought about that particularly, but offer j 
it as a suggestion that the cheer leaders might work on.
MORE OPPORTUNITY AFOOT
The Cross Country team still needs men. And if it doesn't get some 
men, there will be several perfectly good gray sweaters with nice, bright 
ulaid Cs sewed on the front going begging.
Cornell, according to Coach Guy Halferty, has a cross country squad of 
about 250 men, of which a very large percentage are freshmen. Cornell is 
therefore one of the leaders in the hiU-and-dale sport, and year after year 
turns out championship teams.
Howard Dykeman, now considered one of the foremost distance runners 
of the country, never did any running until he came to Carnegie. Perhaps 
you, little Plebe, may possess the same latent ability. Isnt it worth trying, 
anyway?
SIDELIGHTS
Somebody put something over on the Peunsy for the first time since the 
Bigelow Boulevard slide. It has been forced to reduce the fare to Cleveland 
two cents on the round trip. You can make the trip for a cent cheaper each 
way than you thought you could a week ago!
Some Plebe is now wearing a misfit haircut for showing undue energy 
during the football game Saturday. He is to be commended for his initia
tive, but for choosing the middle of a football game for his grandstand stunt, 
wellthats not so good.
There must have been some outsiders in the students stands last Satur
day who did a lot of booing when Christman, the Thiel halfback, called Sig
nals Over several times. We know they were outsiders because Carnegie 
men have always prided themselves on their good sportsmanship.
It did our hearts good to see Wally Steffen on the bench. It looks to us 
though his problem of the end positions has about been solved.
That forward pass attack of Thiel ought to be of help in our preparation 
for Pitt. And wasnt that some run that Jimmy Robertson made?
Well, now that youve read this column all through, look over on the 
other side of this page and read about Mr. Munliall; we hope to make Plaid 
Personalities a regular feature.
ON TO CLEVELAND!
Battling stubbornly every inch of 
the way, the Plebe football warriors 
of Carnegie Tech were forced down to 
defeat by the Slippery Rock Normal 
aggregation last Saturday. The score 
was 7 to 0.
Defeat it was, but if there is ever 
glory in defeat, the Plebes covered 
themselves with it Saturday, for they 
surprised the heavier, more expe
rienced normal school team by their 
spirit of determination and forced the 
visitors to go scoreless until late in 
the last quarter.
There were almost as many thrills 
as there were in the varsity game 
which followed. (Slippery Rock had 
already defeated Mt. Union, a strong 
Ohio Conference school, and was ex
pected to have things pretty much in 
hand; they found, however, unexpect
ed resistance, and would probably 
have been sent home with a scoreless 
tie result but for the breaks of the 
game.
For the Freshmen, Hamilton played 
a brainy game at quarterback, while 
Manby did some pretty snapping back 
of the ball and defense work. Levin
son, at left end, also made an impres
sion by his consistent playing.
Next week the Plebes travel to 
State College to meet the Penn State 
Freshmen in wliat promises to bo one 
of the best games on the schedule. 
Saturdays lineup:
DETAILED REPORTS OF W. AND
J. GAME TO BE SENT BY RADIO
The .news of the Washington and 
Jefferson football game will be Hash
ed from Little Washington to the 
Machinery Hall Tower by wireless 
telegraphy.
This will be done for the conven
ience of tliOBe unable to get to the 
game. Several It. O. T. C. men will 
be needed to handle the receiving 
and announcing here at school. A 
pla3r description of the game will be 
transmitted.
Any R. O. T. C. men willing to be
Pythias
Nodoggone it. I 
skipped over to class 
this morning without 
ray Dixons Eldorado!
17 leadsall dealers
TT^ DIXONSEVRYONRU
i/ie master dmmigpencil'
employed in the capacity indicated 
should apply at the R. O. T. C. head
quarters.
LOST
Freshmen 
Levinson..
Tate...........
Cooper ___
Manby___
Hughes-----
Guihrio....
Vogt...........
Hamilton.. 
Harmon...
Blaine.........
Dodge..................
Slippery Rock
L. E.
L. T.
L. G.
. C. .
R. G.
R. T.
R. E.
Q. B.
L. I-I.
R. H.
F. B.
Score by quarters:
Slippery Rock ..................0 0 0 77
Touchdown  Goldberg. Try for 
pointDunn (drop kick). Substitu
tionsFreshmen. Nimick for Cooper, 
Shriker for Blaine, Warren for Dodge, 
Cooper for Nimick, Blaine for Hamil
ton; Slippery Rock, Carroll for Shade, 
Reynolds for Whitehill. Officials 
Referee, Blum; umpire, Daugherty; 
head linesman, -Moses.
.Whitehill
------Rowen
... Ralston
.........Sager
-----Taylor
.........Eliade
.. Prenjack 
.. Berkman
...........Dunn
-----Sundae
.. Goldberg
LostBetween main entrance of 
Industrial Building and bridge, one 
package of clothing for laundry. Find
er please return to Deans office. .
Craig Restaurant
412 CRAIG STREET 
Quick Service and Cleanliness. 
TRY OUR REGULAR DINNER
40c and 50c
HIE LAND CALFa new 
lether imported from 
Scotland  has a Iustr &. 
sturdiness unmatcht. - 
Workt into the KILLY-* 
NESS it makes a shoe ot 
markt individuality for 
lh.e campus, class and 
street, OOi sra iff) an
A&J
Stores in NeWforkjBrooklyn.Newrk Piila.**- Address for Mill OrtJari ill Duane screet-NewYorkCuy
TARTAN GRIDDEPS DOWN
THIELS YELLOW JACKETS
(Continued From Page One.) 
invincible guard, again kicked off to 
Mateer and eluding the yellow jack
ets Interference downed him in his 
tracks. Thiel then tried an aerial at
tack whch utterly failed and had to 
punt, Robertson receiving the ball. 
The Sklbo machine again launched fin 
attack with Robertson and Brum
baugh bearing the brunt of the battle. 
With Brummy smashing the line for 6 and 8-yard gains and Robertson cir
cling the ends the ball was soon 
placed on Thiels G-yard line where the 
plucky little captain carried the pig
skin across the line for the third 
touchdown. Comfort kicking the goal 
and the half soon ended with the Plaid 
holding the long end of a 21-0 score.
The third quarter found many sub
stitutions in the Thiel lineup but none 
for Carnegie Tech. Bell kicked to 
Brumbaugh who returned it to the 32- 
yard line. Robertson took the pigskin 
himself on the next play and raced 
around right end for G8 yards and a 
touchdown, bringing the roaring 
crowd of spectators to their feet by 
this spectacular feat. Comfort added 
the extra point making the score 28-0. 
At this point McCarthy was substir.uted for Captain Robertson. Shortly
ADMISSION TICKETS NOW
ON SALE FOR W. & J. AND ST. 
IGNATIUS FOOTBALL GAMES
Tickets for the W. & J. and St. Ig
natius games will be on sale at the 
Graduate Manager's ofiice, beginning 
today at 3 oclock.
The ticket sale will continue daily 
at that olllce between the hours of 
3 and 5. The price will probably bo 
50 cents and tickets will bo for stu
dents only. All purchasers must show 
registration cards at time of buying 
ticket.
Remember, admission tickets on 
sale only at Graduate Managers of
fice between 3 and 5 daily, and have 
your registration card.
GIRLS SHOW PEP
FALL TOURNAMENT 
NOW BEING PLAYED! [
Who said the1 girls athletics were 
dead?
Far from that.
Many interesting and lively events 
have been planned.
Do you know hat the Girls Tennis 
Doubles are now being played?
Who will be the lucky pair? All 
the girls are certainly working tor 
that honor. Those now entered are:
Viriginia Hanley, Ida Rosenbloom, 
Kathleen Gallagher, Grace Munhall, 
Maude Cook, Dot Cook, Nell Kraeling, G. Corrors, Helen Corrao, Bobi 
White, Jane Nern, Eleanor Tallmadge, 
Gwen Titley, Anna Kress, Margaret! 
Taylor, Dot Purnell, Mary Hughes,! 
Hilda Cooper, Charlotte Durie, Jessie 
Filson, Mary Heilig, Dot Steele, Leah) 
Rothman, Anne Stuff Ig.
Many of the girls have started on 
their way toward geting a sweater. 
All those who participated in the 
Hare and Hound chase have one A. 
A. point.
Dont worry, girls, the other ninetynine . will come along soon. Then 
lor the sweater.
Everybody seems to want hockey. 
Well, were trying to get . it .and will 
let you know soon. Keep talking it 
up and. were sure to have It.
Dont forget the difiner rally we 
are planning to have soon. All 
members of the A. A. are invited. 
There will be speakers and stunts 
and lots of amusoment.
VARSITY BASKET BALL
Shall varsity basket ball continue?
That is the vital quostion now be
fore the A. A. Board of M. M. C. C. 
It's up to all of you, both girls and 
men, if you want to see the girls 
have a team.
If you want varaityi basket ball, lot 
us know you want it, and tlion If 
we have it, show that you meant 
what you said by coming out to the 
games. One of the objections is the 
fact that the games are not a pay
ing proposition.
Help us put varsity basket ball 
on the map by saying you want II. and 
then ibyi supporting it.
Tennis Managers Urge Club 
Membership - - Players ,^ 
Must Show Cards ____________
At last the mens tennis tourua*:
ment is under way. Some of the
matches of the first round have been j 
played off and by the time this article is in print the second round!
will be .well along. From present;
indications the final rounds will find J 
some of the best tenuis of the sea
son being played on the Tartan j 
courts.
The courts at the present time are: 
open to the use of the men and 
women who are in the tournament. 
The two rear courts next the Mar
garet Morrison Building are reserved 
for the girls tournament play.
There is at least another month 
of playing left,, and the courts will 
be kept in condition as long as 
weather permits indulgence in vho 
sport. It is urgentb requested that 
all who wish to play tennis make 
the required payment of two dohriv 
at the cashiers office, and get a club 
membership tag now.
The assistant tennis managers are 
instructed tc ask for membership 
cai^ls from all persons playing on 
the courts. This is only fair to those 
who have paid the fee, and It is re
quested that members have their 
cards with them at all times, when 
they are playing on the courts.
It is well to note that there will 
not be more than one letter man 
eligible Tor varsity tennis this spring. 
New material must be found and now 
is the time to develop your game 
Got your-club membership now, nndj 
get in form, for men on the varsity 
squad will have their money refund-, 
ed.
At date of writing, the following! 
matches have been payed off:
Fry defaulted to Merodlth.
Wolf beat Bernard!, 64, G-l.
Nimick beat O. Jones, 6-3; 7-5.
McWilliams beat Bellsteln, 6-3, 8-6
Moossner heat W Jones, G-l. 6-3.
Sandberg beat Lolir, 6-1, 6-3.
Davidson boat Kraft, 6-2, 6-0.
Van Atta. beat Baldwin, 6-1, 6-3.
Simpson bent A. Moore, 0-4, 6-1.
It is not an uncommon thing for 
us to see in glaring headlines in both 
the school publications and the 
Pittsburgh papers the names of our 
athletic heroes and coaches. We 
have our Steffen, Marks, Irwin, Rob
ertson, Anderson and doaons of 
others whose names are blazoned in 
places where every eye can see. These 
men are prominent in the athletics 
of our institution and lightly so, for 
they have made sport history while 
here; 'but there is oue other who is 
an indispensable cog in the machine, 
but about whom vey little is seen in 
printyet, who, none the less, is 
just as widely and affectionately 
known by friends of the school, both 
on and off the campus. As the read
er may have surmised, we luive ref
erence to our old friend and stand
by, the unassuming lord of the Field 
House, Bert Munhall.
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
M. M. C. C. SCHOLARSHIP DANCE
Another thing to remember.
Big A. A. Scholarship1 Dance on No
vember 23, in the Union, the night 
before the Notre Damo game.
Remember what a big time we 
had last year. Well, it. will be oven 
bettor this year. We promise you 
some good surprises.
DONT FORGET THE 23RD.
DR. BUDI.0NG WILL BE 
SPEAKER AT CHAPEL
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.........................$300,000.00
Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 South Craig St.
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors.
^aM2fSI3ISMSM3M3J3M3MS/SiSMBMSJ
At the chapel service on Thursday, 
October 11, Dr. Frederick 6. Budlong, rector of the Church of the As
cension, .will deliver an address on 
the question Of What Value Are a 
College Curriculum, Athletics and 
after the kick Thiel again launched an Fraternities to the Student Body?'
;j;vwwv
S SCHENLEY 
I TAILORING CO.
X Collect and Deliver, 
j Call Sehenley 1538
Theres Nothing
 quite so expensive as cheapnessnothing quite so wholly dissatisfying. 
| We do not favor high prices, but WE DO INDORSE HIGH QUALITY. 
! A low price may satisfy in the beginning, but it is HIGH QUALITY 
that satisfies IN THE END.
Davies & Hughes
Oakland's Men's Store, 
a 3615 FORBES STREET NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
! OPEN EVENINGS
aerial attack but fumbled, Kristoff re
covering for the "Skibos. McCarthy 
here showed his ability by tearing 
ai-ound the ends and through the line 
for gain after gain. Mefort again fig
uring by smashing through the line 
for great gains. The quarter ended,
Carnegie Tech 28, Thiel 0.
The final period began with many 
substitutions for the Tartan eleven.
McCarthy again, proved his general
ship by making yard after yard 
around the ends and through the line 
until Thiel captured the ball on a 
fumble.
The Thiel advance now began, for
ward pass after forward pass was 
completed with the ball resting on = tne Dest 
the Plaids 2-yard line when the final j: Pittsburgh 
whistle blew.
Tech-Thiel lineup
Car. Tech
Kristof.........
Zelt....................
Comfort...........
Taylor.............
Gilbert.............
Yoder................
Hable................
Robertson (C.
Newman.........
J. Anderson.:
Brumbaugh..
Substitutions: TechCass
Zelt, Beede for Taylor, P. Anderson 
for Gilbert, McCarthy for Capt. -Rob
ertson, Bastian for Newman, Eaton 
for J. Anderson, Pittman for Brum
baugh, Jones for Pittman. Thiel
French for Mitchell, Mateer for Zundel, Metz for McCoy, Moulds for Berk
man, Nickerson for Berkman, Berk
man for Dufford, Moulds for Nicker
son, Blume for Metz, Moore for Zel
lers, Jamison for Mitchell, Hohl for 
J. Bell, Berkman for Dufford, J. Bell 
for McCoy.
TouchdownsRobertson 3, Kristof 
1. Goals from touchdownsComfort 
4. Officials: RefereeDaugherty, W.
& J. UmpireHenry, Elumm. Lines
manWymard, Georgetown.
Thiel.
L. E...............Dufford
L. T.................Zellers
L. G.................T. Bell
C. ................Mitchell
R. G.................T. Bell
R. T.....................Roth
R. E...................Petty
Q. ....................Metz
. L. H.(C.) Christman
R. H.................Zundel
F. .................McCoy
Dr. Budlong has shown Ills keen 
interest in the life and work of Car
negie Tech ever since ho came to 
Pittsburgh in 1920, so that, he comes 
to us next Thursday as an under
standing friend and not a stranger.
The chapel services are becoming 
very popular with the student body. 
Attendance has increased considera
bly in the past year and . it is ex
pected that it will continue to in
crease.
Dr. Baker has arranged with sev
eral prominent church men through
out the city to officiate at coming 
services. These meetings give, the 
student a chance to hear some of 
the best clergical rnen of which 
can boast Better attend 
the next service!
Pitt 21, Bucltnell 0.
Pitt 7, La fay otto 0.
Dotroil 15, Alma 0.
W. & J. 21, Bethany 0.
W. & J. 1, Washington & Loo 0 
(forfeit.)
PLEBES FLY FLAG
WITHOUT RESULTS
Last. Friday the. Freshman clans 
flow a flag with '27 on It from the Hag 
polo in the Arts School front yard. 
The polo was groasod and the ropo 
tied at tho top. The Froshmon com
ing to school winked knowingly, the 
Sophomoroo ga/.ed with mild oyos and 
walked on. About 10 oclock, a school 
official sent a follow to take It down. 
Ho received ton dollars for his serv
ices, contributed from the Freshman 
breakage fund. Moro dorn fun!
The Hug polo is out of bounds of 
the campus and any offenses ngalnst 
it will bo taken up by the Student. 
Council.
Ambitious Plebes can do things that 
will rouse the Sophomoro Ire without 
having to pay for It (In money at | 
least). For instance in the old days, 
the Plebes would l!y a kite; or two,
[ peiliiips, to keep, the Sophs guessing. 
Our fertile brain suggests a hair-cut
ting bee. with the victims tied to the 
senior fence. The whole Freshman 
class might appear witli bright green 
socks and ties.
The Freshman class is proving a 
little more peppy than the average 
run and we expect great things from 
them In the way of entertainment. 
Nothing can bring school spirit quick
er than class rivalry. Got together 
Plebes and give those last year Plebes 
a good scare.
BERT MUNHALL
Bert, as ho hi universally Unown 
here, came to Carnegie back In the 
old days whon we wore Just .strug
gling to got on our foot -on Feb
ruary 10, 1001), lo bo exact, it was 
In I ho spring of that year that Wally 
S toff on first put In an appearance on 
the Plaid Campus, having boon signed 
up by Athletic. Director .1. 11. McCul
lough to coach football and also lake 
charge of spring football training. 
Since that time neither Munhall nor 
Steffen have been missing a single 
season, I hough Wally on mo just for
football, but the former was here 
throughout, the entire year.
It is hardly necessary for us to de
scribe Berts countless duties. All 
of the old students and alumni know 
them fully, and those who just came 
in tills fall will bocomo acquainted 
with them very soon, especially if 
they go out for athletics, for Bert 
bears the official title of trainer. It 
matters not if,you are out for footiball, baseball, basket ball, track or 
what-not. if you need attention Bert 
is always on the job. After manyj years at that profession he liua aci quired such a high degree of offij ciency il is doubtful that any school 
| in the state can boast of a hotter 
j physical trainer. And Bert does not 
take care of the athletes only, but 
the students in general as well. It 
has become quite the habit for the 
older students to consult Bert if any
thing is wrong with them. That ho 
gets results both on and off the 
lield is evident. He believes in keep
ing the boys in good condition, and 
in that way lessening the chances of 
injury, it will be noted that not one 
of the football players wore injured 
in the game against Toledo over aweek ago; not. once did Bert have to 
go out on the field to give first aid 
to a fallen warrior.
One of .MunhaHs important duties, 
and one which the student body in 
general does not know about is that 
of overseer of the football training 
camp. For the past four years Bert 
has had charge of the food and the 
sleeping quarters. He did the buying 
and oversaw the cooking of the food 
and was in complete charge of the 
dining room. Last year, when a sur
veyors camp was established at 
Camp* Loulso Carnegio, Glenqalrn, 
Bert had similar dutios there. The 
camp was held early .in the summer, 
and while there Bert planted an upto-date truck garden. Football train
ing was held there later, and the 
boys had plonty of vegetables right 
from Bert's garden. After camp 
broke up, there was a whole triick 
load left which was brought to Pitts
burgh. Also, at athletic banquets 
and similar functions Bort Is usually 
called upon to ovorsoo things In gonoral.
It might, he stated at this time that 
Munhall was qulto an athlete him
self back. In the old days, oven 
though he Is a Mttlo ovorwelght. just 
now. He playod center, guard and 
tackle at various times throughout 
his career. Ho was a member of the 
championship1 ilornestoadi Steel Works 
team In 01), MO and Ml, iMe also was 
one of the. mainstays of tho strong 
'Sltdrllngs of WTlklnsburg who made 
such an enviable record at that time. 
And oven today Bort shows his athlotlo ability and strength by success
fully holding his own In a wrestling 
tussle with some of the big men on 
the football squad.'
Steffen andi Munhall came to Car
negie Took at. about, the same time. 
It. begins to look as though SteflVm 
will not bo with us many moro years. 
Lot us hope, however, that Bert will 
not leave us for a long, long I,lino 
to come.
Cross Country Team
Trains for First Meet
TOURNAMENT TO DECIDE
RIFLE TEAM MEMOER8
(Continued From Page One.) 
activity points in the point system 
which is as much as is awarded In 
any other nthlotlc sport at Carnegio 
Tech.
By the paymont of $1.00 dues (plus 
$LOO Initiation foe to new members) 
any male member of tho student body 
and faculty Is eligible for membership, 
but faculty members are not ellgblle 
lo compote for the N. R. A. medal or 
qualifications.
Membership cards and further In
formation may be obtained from the 
secretary by addressing a letter to him 
in care of tho C. I. T. postoflloe, or by 
interviewing tiie officer in charge of I 
the range which is In tho Arts Build-' 
Ing, third lloor, south wing. A. Gj 
Darnall is captain and E. C. Tatum is j 
manager.
LI8T OF ADVERTISERS *
 Molachrlno Cigarettes *!?
 Remington Portable Typewriter
 Singer Pen and Gift Shop
 Tech Barber Shop
 Mellon National Bank ?
 Aufhammor and Evans *!-
 Sicibo Inn *
Dixons El Dorado Pencil v
 Collegiate Barber Shop v
 Craig Rostaurant v
 Sehenley Tailoring Company v
 Oakland Savings and Trust *!*
Company. -I Davies and Hu'ghes v
 Oakland M. E. Church *>
 Grace Reformed Church -!
 Shadysldo Barber Shop. *!
 John Ward1 Mens Shoes'. *>
Bud: Next to a woman, what is the 
most nervous thing you know?
Kit: (ungrammatically): Menex
to a woman.The Crucible.
NEW DEPARTMENT
DOES GOOD WORK
(Continued From Page One.' 
ments to meet the heads of the va
rious engineering concerns, and ex
plains to them the type of work that 
the student is receiving.
He delivered addresses at the Wood, 
Wire, and Metal Lathers Convention, 
held at Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Sep* 
_ tember 11, and also at the Convention Cor j of the Secretaries of the International 
Association of Builders Exchange. 
The co-operation with tho Master 
Plumbers' Association has recently 
been formed. This Is merely an exam
ple of the work that has been done 
in the short time that the new de
partment has been in existence.
It Is expected that men, here In the 
city and perhaps elsewhere, who have 
had no college education but have 
been working at a trade and in the 
industries for some time, will take 
short courses pertaining to their par
ticular kind of work. Arrangements 
will be made to give short courses in 
both the day and night schools. These 
courses will be a great asset to the 
business man in the industrial world.
The cross country team has been 
training hard this past week and 
Coach Guy Halferty is getting the men 
into shape for the first meet to be 
held here on November third. There 
are about twenty men including the 
Freshmen now out for the team. Most 
of these are inexperienced and it is 
taking too much hard work to get 
the team picked for the opening 
meet. *
Captain Dykeman is the only letterman back. Bright, a long distance 
runner on last years track team is 
showing up well. Most of the posi
tions are open on the team, and oppor
tunity abounds both for men who have 
not had- any experience and those 
who have run  before. With hard 
work there Is an exceptionally fine 
chance of making the trips and oarn! Ing a varsity "C.
| Something was said In last week's 
; Tartan about forming a Plohe cross 
! country team. This has been under 
way and tho managers are now fixing 
! up a schodulo for tlio Freshman team, 
j Tills Is something now at Carnegie,
I and Coach Halferty wants to make 
ill; a success. All Freshmen are esi peclally urged to come out and try 
I for this. The training is not as hard 
j as that of football, and the reward is 
, practically the same. Men who get 
j started on cross country in their 
I Freshman year and keep at it have a 
| good chance to make their Varsity 
j "C before they graduate. Lets go 
J Plebes, and show Coach Halferty how  
 much spirit the Freshman class has.
SHADYSIDE 
BARBER SHOP
5522 WALNUT STREET 
Jos. E. Krumm, Proprietor.
Compliments
of
Skiho Inn
LOST
Puppet key. Will finder please re
turn It to Dean Tarbell's office?
A PART OF YOUR 
EDUCATION
Anlde from the desirable 
habit of thrift which it helps 
you to establish, a bank ac
count gives you valuable ex
perience in the handling of 
finances.
The personal interest of 
its officers in the business 
and financial welfare of de
positors is nn outstand'ng 
characteristic of this inotltuiton.
Mellon National Bank
P i tt sbujjp^h, Pa.
Auf hammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1923-!--------
ALUMNI PAGE | | -
CLAN NEWS
CLEVELAND WOMEN'S CLAN
Tho Cleveland Carnegie Tech wo
men held their first monthly luncheon 
on Saturday, September 20th, sit tho 
homo of CSYY Dorothy Harlow, 1025 
Hampulilre road. Tho next meeting 
will ho,hold on the twentieth 1! Octo
ber, at tho homo of Mru. F. K. Dim, 
4728 Hampshlre road. All former Car
negie women, whether they are grad
uate or not, are. cordially Invited 
and urged to bo present. Oillcern of 
the Cleveland Women Clan for thin 
yoar aro CSYY Dorothy Harlow, Prenident, CSYY Mlldrod Lawrence, Secrctary-TrouHtiror, und CSYY Helen Hollman, Social Chairman.
MORE CLAN NEWS WANTED
' A little uHHiBtunco, Clan Hocreturles. 
Nowh from the Clans 1b coming In 
slowly und In very mall portion, and 
wo need It badly. Without now, Inter
est in the CIudb drop off quite notlcoably, hut if account of your meeting, 
personals, BUggoBtion und critleiBin 
aro run every woek on tho Alumni 
Pago the increuse In size and strength 
of your Cluns will certainly surprlso 
you and it will help a lot in' securing 
now member and in getting old one 
out for mootings.
Sond your copy In promptly to T. 
M. McDonald, Alumni Olllco, Carnegio 
Instituto of Technology, and bo sure 
that it reaches us by Thursday even
ing othorwlHG it will bo too late to bo
run in Tho Tartan of tho following 
week.
Put tho park of llfo back Into the 
organization by ending in new, for 
now and publicity aro tho life-blood 
of tho Clan.
ALUMNAE TEA
The fourteenth annual buHino 
mooting of tho Itlargaret Morrlon 
Alumnuo Aoclation will bo hold at 
Margaret Morrison College on Saturduy uftornoon, October 13th, ut 2:550 
j), m. All loyal member are expected 
to bo present.
The elaB of 1923 will bo In charge 
of tho tea which will bo given in tho 
"Tea Room" following tho business 
mooting. MI Ray Fine will ervo a 
hotoH and will havo u uldes Lillian 
Cowun, Dorothy Levion, Annu Light, 
Mounor Martin, Grace Pateron und 
Franc'e, Walker.
Bo Bure to mark the date on your 
calendar!
ERIE CLAN
The next meeting of tho Brie Clan 
will bo held Tbursduy evening, Octoher 11. A letter from 0. L. Tilbrook 
will be read at till mooting. All Curnoglo Alumni and former tudent are 
urged to attend, for plan will bo laid 
for tho trip down to Pittsburgh to wlt!YY tho Pitt-Carnoglo football game 
October 27. Mr. W. S. Hug, 1350 Wet 
Tenth treot, 1 the new SecroturyTreasuror of tho Brie Clan.
PLANS TAKE SHAPE 
FOR FATHERS DAY
Father-Son Banquet Follows 
Lehigh Game  School 
Inspection Early
CLEVELAND TRAIN TICKETS 
CAN BE SECURED BY ALUMNI
Preliminary tickets for the apodal 
train to Cleveland aro now on sale. 
Alumni may secure theirs from T. M. 
McDonald In the Alumni Offico. The 
price of tho preliminary tickets 1 
$1.00. They are to be redeemed at 
Union Station Ticket Offico for tho 
regular round trip ticket which wall 
bo an additional $3.73, making the 
total faro to Clovoland and return 
.$4.73. Alumni! Pleas secure your 
ticket at once so that Wo mayi know 
how many oxpoct to make tho trip 
on Saturday, October 13.
Ho: There about eleven bund rod 
fellow ovor there.
Ho PrimoAw, youre crazy. 
Thoro over a thouHimd, oay.Univorslty Now.
NIGHT ACTIVITIES
FEES PAID BY MANY
Continued From Pago One.) 
before tickets are put on ale for tho 
general public.
Free admission to tho inter* 
night school dance.
5. Use. of the Hwimmlng pool in 
tho now gymnasium.
0. Free admision to tho three Intor-night sohool nmokors hold during Btu"tB b>r members of tho Drama DoFather Day ha been aured tho 
upport of tho Intorfraternity Council 
and tho Dormitory Council. Both bod
ies havo voted their approval and 
havo pledged thomselves to do tholr 
share In making the day a tradition 
at Carnegie. A committee, compoed of tho junior reproHontatlve 
from each fraternity in the Intel'fratornlty Council and one representative 
from each of the dormltorle, both 
mens aiid women', 1 working with 
O. L. Tilbrook to put the day aero 
and assure it JHKKBJYG The upport 
of tho faculty and admlniutratlon 1 
promised through tho presence on the 
committee of Mr. Hartman, represent
ing Dr. Baker, and representatives of 
tho faculty from each of tho collego.
PlunB uro being mude for a school 
inspection in tho morning. Ushers 
will be stationed in the laboratories, 
shops, and about tho buildings to di
rect visitors to tho many points of in
terest on the campuH and In the col
lege building. Several of tho shops 
and laboratories will probably be in 
operation, affording Father and Moth
er nn opportunity to see how tholr 
sons und duughter put in pnrt of 
their time ut Carnegie.
About noon, luncheon will be served 
In tho Commons und In tho fraternity 
house. Next on tho program 1 the 
footbull game, Carnegie vs. Lohlgh, at 
Forbes Field. It is the best bet of 
tho day. Dont full to uttend!
After the gume a big Father and 
Son get-together dinner will probably 
bo held In Carnogle Commons, follow
ed by a general gab-fest and] hand
shaking party.
Tho evening entertainment not 
beon decided upon as yot. It 1 hoped 
that either a piny or several' good
%+*** + *******"'XICARNEGIE DRAMATS
HAVE YOU NOTED THAT *i .-,, .^IMPRESS BUFFALO'
?5* ence, 18, will spoak at the school * ------------------
V on WednoHda^1.
RESERVE YOUR TICKETS
FOR CARNEGIE-PITT GAME
There aro new regulation in *J* 
?J* effect for tho Plebes. 5*
I* Over flV(* hundred students are %* 
v taking up activities in the Night * 
J* School. ?>
v The new Industrial Regula- !*
I* lions Department under Director *: 
*! -Connolly 1 becoming Increa:;- *!
* ingly effective. v
*:* The point system i in effect. *
*! Carnegio Athletics are boom- v
ing. *
Wm. Ball, Industrie, 11. spoke * 
v at the school a week ago Mon- > 
v day. -!?
* Carnegio plays football at
* Cleveland Saturday, and will send *
5* a special train. *
I* Classes in Margaret Morrison > 
I* were excused1 one day last week v 
I* on account of cold weather. v 
I Carnegio Dramat played be- ?
* fore largo audiences in Buffalo. * 
?J* Alumni news is wanted badly. ?
Mr. Stevens Adventure 
Well Received--Future 
Stagings Arranged
the year.
7. Tho prJvIlogo to voto for all ofll* 
cors In tho night school senate.
partment cun bo put on in tho Little 
Theater.
How does tho program sound to you, 
Alumni? Isn't it worth any extra of-lho amount o roprosont, tlon on fort h  l0
 St..dont C ouncil allotted to tho |,ck tor Patllors. Da. Lot., seo you 
"'o"1 doponds upon tho . ml, 3!
the 
night
number of activities foos paid 
8. Tho prlvllogo to hold a clas 
olllco.
O'. Tho right to ho a mornbor of 
tho Man,dolin Club, Olee Club and Klli 
tie Band.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRON...Secretory, A. (J. Sprnguo, lt. I\ D. No. 24, South Akron, 0.
BOSTON-rSecvotary, J. I'\ Maxwell, 220 Billings Rood, WoUoston,
Mosfi.
BXJFFA'Secretary, Robert Portor, 870 Hertel Avenue.
CHX0AC10-Seeretiiry, I. S. Stark, care 33. Yornon Hill Co., 64 Went 
Randolph Stiioot.
GiNOiNNATI---J. W. Batman, earo .iolniH Manvillo Company.
OJJ.I8V W-j AN])'--Secro!;ory, 1. I\ Tnindeen, 1.2722 Barrington Avonuo; -Women Clan, Sooroliaiy, Mildred Tjowronoo, 2241 Cummington Road.
28--02US2tU 2SRw-asodrotary-i^easuror, G. lt. Holmes, R. Mo*
Ijogan Foundry Company, Now Haven.
TCLAD.XI4 GS4 ljong, Soeretary-TroaHuror, 801 Grallton Avonuo.
D.IOTROJTSee>,Qlaiy, H. A. JJeul, K Cadillac Avenue.
10hlRy88pi 01TY...Acting Soerotary, Ooorfro Dmiuoith, Jr., Bast
Colitago.
10K.110 W. 8. Uug, Soci'otary-Troasiiror, 1359 West Tenth Street.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HUNTINGTONSoerotary, J. F. Do Young, 808 Second Street, 10.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, G41 Horner Street.
LOS ANGEijIiJSSecretary-Treasurer, Frederick Kincll, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shonango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, B. M. Gretzlor, National Supply Company,
120 Broadway, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington.
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, Thomas M. McDonald, Carnegie Institute Art,a .i?0116*0 13 ,nnking the cover of Technology a 3 g0,nE t0 bo n whIz" of a
W. Franklin St.
SI. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange got in this next number, but you cun 
Building. I rest assured tliut it will be in the
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg. Football number, following, or in the
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Bou- Christmas number following tliut. 
levard; Womens Clan Secretary, Miss Edice Reider, Rayen Wre BOlng t0 win that cup- 80 lets
hero on November 3!
CARNEGIE PUPPET TO
TRY FOR FIRST PRIZE
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS 
BY MATH DEPARTMENT
The Mathematics Department 
Scholarships for tho yeur 1923-24 are 
announced:
One scholarship of ?100 to that 
student who Bhall make the best recon! In mathematics during His Fresh- probably go to Detroit. Several other
Mr. Stevens new pageant-drama 
"Adventure was successfully pre-J 
sented' by forty-five students of the 
Drama Department on Monduy und 
Tuesday of last week, a the Allendale 
Theater in Buffalo. The play was per
formed chiefly) for delegates of the 
Nutional Sufety Council, covening in 
Buffalo, and all the performunces < 
were well-uttended>. Muny of tliej 
delegates, hailing from other parts, 
were so favorably impressed with 
the play, that they huve ulreudy be
gun to make arrangements for the 
presentation of the pluy in their re
spective cities. The way in which j 
"Adventure' was received in Buffulo, 
bodes well for its success wherever 
it muy be presented.
It ;s not likely that Adventure 
will be presented again at the Little 
Theater. In all probability1 it will 
appear on the' boards of the Schenley Theater sometime in the near fu
ture as the feature of a National 
Safety Council Convention in Pits-; 
burgh. Arrangements for the plays 
j/resentation in Cleveland are almost 
complete, and, following this, it will
Send in your application for tickets 
to the Pitt-Carnegie football game 
now. Dont wait until the last day. 
The earlier you make reservations, the 
better seats you will secure, and if 
you havent paid your alumni dues 
send them in immediately to G. L. Til
brook, for paid up members of the 
Alumni Federation have first choice 
of seats. If you wait until a few days 
before the big game you may have to 
stand; so send your application into 
the Graduate Managers office at once. 
Dont procrastinate.
BEAUTY COMMENTS TO TEACH 
CO-EDS WHO SIMPLY WILL
NOT USE THEIR HEADS
man and Sophomore years.
A gold medal to that student who 
makes the best record in his Sopho
more year in mathematics.
A silver medal shall be - given to 
that Freshman who makes the best 
record In his mathematics.
Last year the scholarship was won 
by F. D. Rossini.
The gold medal was won by David 
Moskovitz.
Two silver medals were given, due 
to a tie in averages between L. B'arbrow and R. V. Reiner.
ENGINEERSQUIT YER SHOVIN 
M. M/s WANT A LITTLE OVEN
(Continued from Page One) 
number of B. T. U.s necessary to 
make that school girl complexion 
flourish and come and go at will like 
tho faint blush of a rose petal in a 
debutantes corsage. Perhaps the 
heated conversation of the 8:30 ticket 
holders or the fact that some well
(Continued From Pago One.)
Contest. It offers a "ibauty of a lovins cup oach year, to tho collego, meaainR mll8,e BtmIent w 8|nKlns 
ntftgnzlne that turn out tho boot | ..Hot Upg.. to the tune ot Dantes "Inmaterial. Puppet walked away with , forno.. nllaled nt th0 b,ls,c ,ct
fourth place last year, but this year, | |s thftt Ulo Ma rot M0n.is0n Carlisten CeUowH. this yoar Puppot 1 ,0 ConoB<! For Womenwas cold.
.load-sot on nrst place. Wo vo got to T| t | ,t )f ,n8|Rn|n,mt.
got It, and 'no per ...ps about It" I who  ,t a coM buIUnK?
How aro wo tfolng to do It? Very
cities are also making strong bids 
for the play, but nothing following 
the Detroit trip has taken any defin
ite shape.
We Carnegie Tech Dramats were 
as well received in Buffalo as wa3 
their pluy. The Safety Council had 
arranged for suites of rooms at the 
Touraine Hotel and had overlooked 
nothing for the comfort and conven
ience of the company. A rehearsal 
was held Sundajr at the theater, but 
on the fplloAving day a bus and. sev
eral private cars were sent around 
to the hotel, and the bunch piled in 
and took a trip to Canada and Niag
ara Falls. Most of the optimistic 
members of the company were highly 
disappointed to learn that lower Can
ada is just us dry us the United 
Stutes.
This being the stute of things, 
everyone returned, lust Wodnesduy 
morning in time for. clusses, just us 
sober, but a little more wenry tliun 
they were before the trip.
(Continued From Page One.) 
with your roommate at the focal 
point. See what the man can develop 
you into, and see whether your face 
is fit to print. If not, get to work 
and clean it up. Touch up the dark 
spots, and polish - down the rough 
edges, using a bit of emery cloth to 
take out the wrinkles. A sousing in 
hot water, with a dash of creme before 
bed will help to bring about a rosy 
dawn. Try it, instead of powder the 
next time.
Would you like to be called the 
most beautiful girl on the campus? 
Certainly you would, and so would 
your roommate. There is a chance for 
some real competition. Appoint a 
judge, and keep working for a week 
to see which one will be the prettier 
at the end of that time. It puys to 
pick a judge who is not prejudiced. 
Inasmuch as the question has been 
asked as to your beauty, it is high 
time that you ask yourself the same 
question, but change the person. 
Every time you pass a store window, 
look into it and ask yourself "Am I 
beautiful? If not, "there's a reason. 
But there is also a remedy. Watch 
for the revelations in the forthcoming 
Tartan, and in the meantime, use your 
stuff.
ARE YOU BEAUTIFUL?
Musical Clubs Have 
Few Open Dates Left
Engagements Now Being 
Made for Coming Season
The Musical Clubs ure booking en
gagements now for the coming season. 
Why/not engage them for a concert 
under the auspices of your clan, or 
perhaps plan a meeting, open to the 
public, in one of your local hotels 
with the Carnegie Musical Clubs as 
the feature number of the program? 
Something of this sort will advertise 
Carnegie far more than any amount 
of literature or catalogues. The clubs 
carry an excellent dance orchestra, 
so that arrangements could be made 
for a dance after the concert.
Several of the clans tried this sug
gestion last year with such success 
that they have already made return 
engagements for this year. They 
found that they got out a lot of Car
negie men and women who had not 
been attending clan meetings, as well 
as a number of prospective students 
who were interested in Carnegie.
Try it, Clans'. You will get the big
gest and livliest turnout of the year 
if you put on the Carnegie Musical 
i Clubs as a special attraction for one of 
your meetings.
Better write to B. Broudy, 5617 
Forbes stret, Pittsburgh, Pa., for in
formation and open datesnow!
ONLY TWO MORE DAYS TO
BUY CLEVELAND TICKETS
SENIOR PICTURES WILL BE
TAKEN STARTING MONDAY
(Continued From Page One.)
The engraving for this year's This
tle will be done by the Canton Engrav
ing and Electrotype Co. of Canton, 
u ... VI11 .... .. , ,  Ohio; This firm wishes to print a
simple! All you Plobos ami uppor-1 ^S10 !n8 J Si. 1! 8 on!fi i book wWeh may serve as a sample ot
claas.uon aro going to gather logXv! ?! rlnfe7P'  t,!0y1 WOrf, ,VOrthIl the kind of work that the Arm can 
all good l.lons, Jokes, and drawings wondoro.l whore those self in ho nrit.
you over thought, hoard or saw, and 
sond them into P. O. Puppet Box, C.
same persons obtain the refrigorution 
for the annual crop of cold shoulders
. m ml , , , , so gonorously hostowod upon our sex?I. 1 They must m tunny to .. cloan,, Th , N()|)0(1 K ,t,
original way. No muddy stuff! , ,  ,, ,
Then us a reward, if you'ro a con- | 118 llow oonflMr the tragic sitsiiitoilt contributor, you'll not only got 1,1,110,1 tram "O'01 '"'K1". What do 
your nan. In print, but youll "grab yu (l<> "'ll erstwhile swootlo
off an Insignia of tho Puppetnamo 
ly, ii l'uppot koy.
Suroly you budding young writers 
nnd cartoonists aro just chuck full to 
overflowing with ldous, but youre just 
too modoHl. to come across with thorn. 
Dont fool that Avuy about It! This 
In your school, your magazine, and 
your Jolcos and ldous should bo broad
casted to all Tech. Como across fel
low, and you Maggie Murphs, too, and 
all tho rest of tho "wlmmom Lets 
hoar from you! Help to pluoo tho 
Puppet 011 tho first of tho list, and 
wlion wo do cop tho prize, you can 
sit buck in your chair, puff up your 
chest und suy, "I helped to wn tliut 
cup.
The next number to come out is 
the "Hallow Bean. Carr, from Fine
School, Ohio and Benita Avenues.
Directory of Alumni Organizations
ALUMNI FEDERATION
President, H. L. Hoilmun, 17; First Vice President, J. F. Laboon, 
'12; Second Vice President, Harry Bremmer, '20; Third Vice Presi
dent, W. II. Ritts, 12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, OS; Sec
retary, Gail Sellers Fottlce, 17; Treusuror, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of Governors.
College of Fine ArtsH. L. Heilman, '17; Harry Brommer, 20. 
College of IndustriesW. Ii. Ritts, 12; J. M. Orr, 15; T. M. Mc
Donald, '211.
College of Engineering.!. F. Laboon, 12; M. R. Walton, '09; 
G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Margaret Morrltion Carnegie CollegeMrs. C. 11. Fottlco, 17; Bornlco Kruger, Ml); Mru. F. l. Gaston, ()!.
Reprsentatives at LargeS. 0, Little, '10; S. M. Vincent, '08. 
OFFICERS OF ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS
Collogo of Fine Artr.....Prosldont., II. L. Heilman, M7; SecretaryTreasurer, Charlotte Smith, 'IS; Harry Bremmer, 20; H. W. Smith, 
A.; Ray Marl lor, A.; Marguerite Collette, A.; 11. W. Schmort'/.. '21; 
Eleanor Tenor McCullough, '13; Esther Topp, '18.
Collogo of EngineeringPresident, ,T. l<\ Laboon, M2; SocretaryTreasuror, O. L. Tilbrook, '15; David Henderson, '.12; J. \v. Dougherty, 
'11; W. B. Sklnlclo, 17; T. F. Shea, MG; M. R. Walton, 'Oil; H. G. 
Nichol, 21; H. S. Stockdale, '15; R. C. Cosgrove, 18.
Collego of Industrie....President, J. M. Orr, 15; First Vico Presi
dent, G. T. I-Ieddaous, '20; Second Vico President. H. E. Fox, '16; Soeretary-Treasuror. T. M. McDonald, '23; L. T. Kelly, I.; L. II. Loe, 
09; F. Miller, '09; F. A. Crotliers, '21; W. B. Jones, 17; W. H. Rltts, 
12; C. K. Koontz, 17.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegePresident, Mrs. C. R. 
Fettlce, '17; First Vico President, Sue Smith, '17; Second Vice Presi
dent, Millicent Leach, 15; Secretary, Bernice Kruger, 19; Mrs. F. I. 
Gaston. '09; Josephine Whitney, 22: Dorothy Grant, '23.
Executive CommitteeGail Sellers Fettlce, 17; Sue Smith, 17; 
Bess Sheets Gaston, '09; Florence Bechtel, 17; Edna Smith, 09; 
Josephine Whitney, '22; Dorothy Grant, '23; Bernice Kruger, '19; 
Mary Craighead Brinton, '11.
PEP RALLY FOR CLEVELAND
TRIP AT ASSEMBLY
I (Continued From Page One.) 
portation, will be given to the stu
dents. Every Carnegie student in
tending to be present at these games student body.
fools cold? Tho Commercial Englnooring Department has given us the 
dopeyon give her tho arm of your 
coat. (HintDont take it off.) Then 
boro wo arellvo hundred frosted fe
males without a mans coat between 
them. No wonder they woro cold and 
dlsgu'sod So what did they do? Why 
tlioy up and petitioned tho faculty. Wo 
fool sorry for that august body to tho 
oxtont of our ability but wo think they 
did right. They declared that since
put out, and the Thistle will be print
ed with this aim in view. For this 
reason, if for no other, wo are assured 
that tho book will be better than 
usual. Under the terms of the con
tract, some money will be saved over 
last years engraving cost, and it is 
planned to put this money into the 
book In tho form of multicolor plates 
which will bo an ontlrely new feature.
Plans aro under way for an Inten
sive salos campaign which will be put 
on sometime in the future. Tho re
sults from tho flrst campaign, carried 
on during registration, showed that 
227 subscriptions wore taken, and ovor 
$700.00 collected.
There will be something new this 
year that will prove especially inter
esting to the Seniors and also to
handsome man of tho gang committed | watch for it; 
matrimony this summer and merethoro werent enough single men in everybody who owns a book. It is too 
tho group and since the acknowledged j soon to give out any information, but 
ed watch for it; itll be good when it 
re-! comes.
over since tho girls were coldthey Jerry Slye, this years editor, is anxcouldnt do a thing about it but dis- ious to have some Plebes to work for 
miss classes. And they did. Revolu-1 the book. It has been unusual for 
tionary as it may seem, classes, were Freshmen to work up to this time, 
actually dispensed with on a day that j but the best time to get a start at 
was neither a holiday, a Sunday, or a | anything is during the first year. Any 
pay day. And the dear little s. s. and Freshman who will work this year
g. students marched out in a body 
chanting:
We are the girls of Maggie Murph 
We seldom if ever are cold.
But when'we are, bless your lucky 
star,
For someone is sure to be told.
will receive valuable information con
cerning these trips.
The assembly will be closed with 
several Carnegie cheers, and mass 
singing of the Carnegie songs by the
will be amply repaid, and in addition 
will have a running start toward the 
editorship during his Junior year.
ALUMNUS SPEAKS BEFORE
JUNIOR PATTERNMAKERS
William Ball, who is now genera! 
superintendent for the Edna Foundry 
Company in Cincinnati, spoke before 
the Junior Class in Patternmaking, 
Monday, October 1.
Mr. Ball graduated in -1911, and is 
now well established in work along 
his line of study.
DAY SCHOOL REGISTRATION TOTALS, 1914-1923
1914191519161917191819191920192119221923
College of Engineering.............................. 1925S5GS0584fiS3f9S4955SS5774422*
College of Industries.................................. 34S31939 S2911911431520591467301*
Freshmen, Ind. and Eng.........................311
37*392350193t34S312474497545
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.. 2f>92SS31143836836130941S455442
.Division of Co-operativo Research....(i13IS322624232
Totals....................................................1422567179011*79145321562322239222162023
tDoos not Indudo war coursos. *Does not include Froslunon.
DAY REGISTRATION BY COURSES, 1923-1924
FINK A UTS COLLEGEMen Women Total 140
KNGINKKltlNG COLLEGE MAUGAUET
Mooliunleul lOnwlmorhur78 MOUHISGN
Klcotvlanl Ktmliu'ovliw_t>G CAltNKGlK COI.LEGE Arahitootur' -
Chomloul Entrlnuurlnir-___Cowtnmo Eaonomloa______(lit Pnlntinir & IlhiutmthiK f-l
Civil Enjtlnoorlni? .............CO Uoutwhold Kuononitc. 00 Api>Ho<l Art .................512
Commorclul EmtlncotlniT85 Soorotnvlul KtuUUm 00 Munto --------------  27
Mlntnjr Englacorlint ____Soolnl Work   554 Driuun _______ 41
MotnlhirKlenl En^lnoorli\tr-2l Salonco__________________10 Souh>turo ---------------
ScioiiLM ____________________23 Library________________ 0 No IHnmrUnont____ 1
Physical Tnilnlmt______ 4
Gonorivl Courno-----------173
INDUSTRIES COLLEGE 
Noi
Dcjrrco di'triH' Totalor, IUilldhiK Conntructlon___82 Gli 1517
110 Machino. Production___80 Sf> 115
110 Printline .....28 18 4G
78 Industrial Education 8  5t1
Continued From Page One.) 
ule: Tho train will leave the Union
Station at 8:20 a. m., Saturday morn
ing, October the thirteenth. It is a 
P. R. R. and made up entirely of steel 
coaches. It will arrive in Cleveland
at the Euclid Street Station at 12:00 
noon. The ball park s only a few 
blocks away. Leaving Cleveland you 
can get the Special at the Union Sta
tion at 7:10 p. m. and at the Euclid 
Street Station at 7:30 p. m. It will 
arrive in Pittsburgh at 11:00 p. m.
Certainly!Every student needs s. 
reliable Safety Fountain Pen and a 
Pencil. We sell and repair. Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
/S/5/5/S/5H5H5J5J5JBMSJ5/B55J5/S/5iSJSJSi5@, 
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS 
BELOW CRAIG
m 
MBE
ONLY those who have 
smoked Melachrinos 
can judge the quality 
of the finest Turkish 
tobacco.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over"
Successful 
Men and 
Women 
Write Out 
Their Ideas
The dlscrepeucy in the above table 
and the Student's Handbook is duo to 
the fact that this table shows a com
parative registration for the pust ten 
yxjars, as of October 1 each year. 
The Handbook figures show the com
plete yearly registration including the 
second semester and all late regis
trants, and1 is therefore much larger 
than the above table shows.
From a stldy of the table, it will 
be seen that while there has been 
quite a bit of discussion on the 
campus regarding the fall-off in regis
tration this year, there is really not 
a very great decrease. What there is,
is rather for the good of the student 
body, for it must be admitted that 
in the past the various classes have 
been somewhat overcrowded. This 
decrease in enrollment will more than 
likely mean more personal attention 
to each student, which in turn ought 
to work towards better and more in
teresting courses.
Remington Portable
Combine the habit of research,which you are forming now, with a little imagination, and youve started something.
From the time you are in college and as' long as you live, your success in life and business will depend upon your ability to work out ideas. Outline your ideas, write your papers and lecture notes, your themes and your letters, on a Remington Portable. A few days practice and its faster than long hand.
The Remington Portable has the four-row keyboard like the big machines. It fits in a case only four inches high. You can use it on your lap, if you wish, for it carries its table on its back.
Pricc, complete with case, f 60. Easy payment terms if desired
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER CO.
CAR NEGIT NISOOIW MEIIDUPSFTW MYH
