L
BUY STATE 
STAMPS EVERY 
DAY
CarnegieGeneva 
FOOTBALL 
SATURDAY 3 P. M.
VOL. XVI. NO. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1921
To Expand 
In Research
Nearly Forty Big Business 
Firms Are Affiliated. 
Some New Bureaus 
Instituted
RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS
DR. BINGHAM DIRECTS
That the leading business firms in 
Pittsburgh, Chicago, New York and 
j other cities realize the Importance of 
research in their lines of business, is 
strikingly shown by the fact that over 
[forty companies are now in close 
touch with the Division of Co-opera
tive Research, the latest department 
to be organized at Carnegie Institute 
I of Technology.
Under the general direction of Dr. 
jW. V. Bingham various lines of re
search work are being followed. The 
most recent development has been the 
launching, by Dr. A. J. Wurts, of a 
| Bureau of Science and Engineering 
Research, which will .work together 
with several companies on research 
involving the physical and chemical 
 sciences.
The financial support for each or 
these investigations comes either 
from an association of industrial 
concerns, or from some one company 
! wishing to secure the cooperation 
of experts in scientific research with 
laboratory facilities.
There are three other chief depart
ments of research, all well established 
in business relations. These are the 
Bureau of Personal Research, the Re
search Bureau for Retail Training and 
the department of educational re
search. They were parts of the for
mer Division of Psychology, out of 
which the co-operative research work 
has grown.
The wide expansion of these re
search activities has been in line with 
the recommendations made last spring 
by the Educational Commission of the 
Carnegie Corporation. This commis
sion found the business relations of 
the former division so useful that the 
reorganization of the division upon a 
co-operative plan was suggested.
Thus far the honors for rapid ex
pansion in the research field belong 
to the central research '/bureau,, es
tablished here by the leading life in
surance companies. This research 
center is separate from the School of 
Life Insurance salesmanship headed 
by Mr. G-. M. Lovelace. iSince August, 
eighteen companies, ranging in loca
tion from Massachusetts to Iowa, have 
joined this bureau, and the number 
! is expected to reach about .fortv by 
November first.
The widest rang of companies is 
represented in the Bureau of Per
sonal Research. Here work is being 
carried on for manufacturing plants, 
distributors of nationally known prod-1 
nets, chain store organizations, adver
tising- firms and others. In spite of! 
the variety of companies the work 
done by this Bureau is limited to the 
scientific control of the human fac
tors in industry and commerce. A 
staff of six specialists, headed by Dr. 
C. S. Yoakum, is maintained to carry 
on this research and service for the 
companies.
Research' in education is being 
promoted by Dr. E. K. Strong, Jr., 
who has made extensive job analyses 
of the duties of industrial executive, 
and has hlped many companies to 
arrange their training courses.
Research in educational lines is be
ing promoted by Dr. E. K. Strong, Jr., 
who has helped many companies to 
arrange their training courses.
One of the largest phonograph pro
ducers maintains in the Diyision the ! 
research work in music which deter
mines the company's methods of pre
senting their records for sale to the 
public. Dr. E. Gatewood, formerly in 
charge of this research, has entered 
the New York offices of the company 
and has recently been succeeded here 
by Dr. M.,-Schoen.
Eight large department stores of 
Pittsburgh maintain, in the Division, 
a Research Bureau for Retail training^ 
headed by Dr. W. W. Charters. The 
staff of this Bureau has just been en 
larged so as to deal more extensively 
with the work of training executives 
and salespeople in these stores.
New appointments to the staff of 
the Division of Co-operative Re
search include Dr. Merrill J. Ream 
Avho received the Ph. D. degree last 
June in this institution; Dr. B. W. 
Hobinson of the University of Iowa, 
I>r. Max Sclioen, also of the Uni
versity of Iowa,, who will be engaged 
on psychological research for Thomas A. Edison on effects of different 
kinds of music; Mr. L R. Frazier of 
the University of Washington, Miss 
l'redonia Ringo of the University of 
Missouri, and Miss Natalie Kneeland 
of Vassar, both graduate students 
last year at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Dr. A. J. Wurts, head of the De(Continued on Page Four.)
+ Students of the Carnegie In*1* stitute of Technology who wish *
* to make application for a Rhodes *
* 'Scholarship should call on Direc- *
* tor May, Room 105, of the .Arts ? 
*1* Building, for information in re- ?
* gard to the scholarships and the *!
* methods of application. ?
* The complete papers of the
* applicant must be in the hands ?
* of Director Day on or before Oc- *
* tober 7, 1921. No application ?!*
* will be considered after that 4*
* date. ?
FIRST Y.M C.A. 
VESPER HELD
Dr. Russel of Edinboro Uni
versity Speaks
The first Y. M. C. A. vesper serv
ice of the new school year was held 
in the Arts Theater last Sunday 
afternoon at four oclock. Due to 
the inclement weather, the audito
rium was ibarely half-filled, but all 
those who did brave me threatening 
rain were amply repaid by the ad
dress delivered by Dr. Oliver Rus
sell, a graduate of the University of 
Edinboro, Scotland, who was tle 
principal speaker of the afternoon.
After a song service led by Mi. 
T. E. Yearsley of tne flast End 
Christian Church, Mr. Davis, secre
tary of the local branch of the Y. 
M. C. A., led the audience in prayer, 
and then Mrs. Christine Miller 
Clemson sang Mietzkes How Long 
Wilt Thou Forget Me. Mr. S. E. 
Dibble, a member of the committee 
of management at the Tech branch 
of the Y, introduced Dr. Russell, 
who during the war served as chap
lain to the Scotch troops in France, 
and who is in the city in connection 
with the International Convention of 
the Presbyterian Church Alliance.
According to Dr. Russell, a young 
man or young woman, on entering 
college has certain definite fixed 
ideas concerning religion and faith, 
which are changed almost invariably 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Many Enroll 
In R. O. T. C.
Over Five Hundred Dollars 
Given Students by U. S. 
GovernmentV aluable Training Too
COLONEL WOOD TALKS
The prospects of the Reserve Of
ficers' Training Corps at this insti
tution is brighter this year than any 
of the preceeding ones. The value of 
the military training is becoming1 
more universally known, and the en
rollment this year started immediately 
after registration. On previous years 
it has required several weeks to im
press upon the freshmen the fact that 
the Military Department was estab
lished at this institution and that it 
had something to offer of consider
able value to students. It has been 
difficult to impress upon the men the 
fact that this- offer is absolutely free 
from any expense, not only that, but 
that there is a substantial financial 
bnefit to be obtained from the course 
in addition to the practical value of 
the same. The amount given to each 
student in return for his military work 
throughout the four years amounts 
to over five hundred dollars. During 
the first two years this comes in the 
form of clothing and equipment, is
sued free to the students, and during 
the last two years in addition to cloth
ing, the government pays each stu
dent in cash a sum amounting to 
about fourteen dollars a month, and 
this payment continues during the 
summer months as well as during the 
school months.
This year Colonel Brooks, instead of 
making his own talk to the freshmen 
classes, had voluntary aid from Col
onel Eric F. Wood, a member of a 
prominent firm of architects in Pitts
burgh. Colonel Wood told the stu
dents thp.t before the war he had con
sidered himself very fortunate in 
reaching a position where he was 
earning fifty dollars a week. He had 
never had any previous military ex(Continued on Page Four.)
Student
Council
Senate Secretary to Make 
Monthly ReportY.M.C.A. 
Recognized School 
Activity
NEW FRESHMAN RULE
DRAMA DEPT. PLAY OCTOBER 12
The first important news from: the 
drama battle f.ront is the announce
ment of The Song of Songs* for re
production; to be presented the even
ing of October 12, and to run the 
usual length.
The Song of Songs, which is the 
Songs of Solomon, is taken directly 
from the Old Testament verbatum, 
under the keen direction of Mr. Os
borne. It will not be so much a play 
as it will a beautiful dramatic page
ant, showing King Solomon in all 
his glory. The entire production will 
have a musical motif running through 
the many scenes.
The second production under the di
rection of Mr. Wallace is The Thun
derbolt, the dramatic play of Pinero. 
This is a very fine modern play deal
ing with the troubles that arise from 
misplaced wills. The date for pro
duction is not yet posted.
Very soon the regular Friday mat
inees will commence. They proved 
to be very popular last year, and ow
ing to the many fine actors and ac
tresses playing in the city and who 
visit the school and Little Theater on 
these occasions, these matinees serve 
a double purpose. That of interesting 
the students and for the drama class 
to meet these people. The first pro
gram will be announced soon.
BOSS HALL.SMOKER
Boss Hail last Sunday evening was 
the scene of a very enjo}'able smokr 
held by four of the Upperclassmen 
of the Drama Department for the 
Plebes and Faculty. This is an an
nual event held for the purpose of 
promoting the good fellowship for 
which this department is noted.
The evening was enlivened by 
burlesque on Furrowed Earth, mo
nologs, sketches and a talk by Presi
dent Hammerschlag. Other faculty 
guests were Director Bossange, Dean 
Targell, Profs. Geaghegan, Becknell, 
Long, Wallace, Osborne and others 
more intimately connected with the 
Drama Department
At a late hour refreshments were 
served and the guests departed with 
the feeling of an evening well spent.
The Student Council was compell
ed to hold a lengthy meeting in or
der to care for the heavy business 
coming up at the start of the school 
yepr.
Several new rulings were passed 
which should be noted by the stu
dent body.
Among them was the rule requiring 
all Freshmen . desiring exemption 
from Plehe regulations to report to 
the Regulations Committee of their 
schools "before October 10. Only 
those Freshmen who have spent one 
year at another college or univer
sity are elglble for exemption. The 
question of the status of Federal 
Board men was discussed, and it was 
decided to meet with them and get 
their ideas.
Another important ruling was tlia; 
regarding organization dances held 
on the campus. All student organzijtions must petition the Student 
Council for permission to hold a 
dance at least two weeks before the 
proposed dance takes place. Consid
erable confusion and multiplication of 
dances on the same evoning have re
sulted from a lack of some regula
tion regarding dances in the past. 
On one occasion last year seven 
dances were held on the campus by 
students in one evening. It is to 
prevent this and to Insure the finan(Continued on Page Eight.)
V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V
TENNIS CLUB
Membership Cards for Stu- *5* 
?J* dents Are Now Ready at the *
* Cashiers OfficeFeo ?2.00 for 
Season Closing June 15. 1922. (No *
> Reduction in Fee for Spring *5* 
Only.) *
> REMEMBER: *
I* Only students regularly en- * 
rolled are eligible for the Club. * 
& All Persons Using the Courts 
b MUST BE CLUB MEMBERS. * 
J- Persons Not Members Found 
J* Using the Courts Will Be Snbject for Civil or Disciplinary Ac- ? 
-I* tion for Tresspassing. *
I* Membership cards of players
* must be shown to the caretaker {*
* or members of the Tennis Com- *
* mittee on demand. *
* Members of the Faculty and * 
*:? Administration may become ?
* members of the Tennis Club by *
* paying a fee of $5.00.
Tech Trims 
Thiel 42-0
Team Won Easily Before a 
Large CrowdOpponents 
Fought Hard But 
Outclassed
NEW MEN IN LINE-UP
FREE TRIP TO 
PENN STATE
Prizes Given by Alumni in 
Stamp Sale Contest
I. T. LIBRARY OPEN
TO ALL STUDENTS
THISTLE STAFF ASKS
STUDENT SUPPORT
It lias long been recognized by 
schools and colleges, that an annual 
ore year book is a necessitya thing 
of real value to the spirit of tin 
school.
The Thistle is published by tli*
members of the Junior class and 
tanks among the ibest of college
year books. It is a book that por
trays the events of the school year, 
a book that only Tech student can
not affort to be without.
This year's Thistle will be as good 
if not better than any previous is-, 
sue. The athletic section will b9 cards and these cards will be recogenlarged. School life will be pic-! nized at the Carnegie Library, where
tured to as great an extent as possiStudents are urged to make use of 
books and periodicals. With the 
opening of school every student has a 
number of books to purchase, but 
there is a large collection of books on 
the campus which the. studonts may 
use without purchasing. Most of the 
old studonts use these books to an 
advantage and all the new students 
should become acquainted with the 
C. I. T. Library, which is so situ
ated that almost everyone passes it 
every day.
Reference books on Kiography, Art, 
Travel, Science, Engineering, History 
and Languages, besides Fiction, per
iodicals and newspapers, may bo 
found there and the students may also 
borrow them. The bell rings in the 
Library tljo same as in the other 
buildings, so that ono waiting there 
lor a class will not be late. New stu
dents may obtain Library cards upon 
presentation of their registration
ble by humorous text, interesting 
photographs and snappy cartoons. 1
To cany out these plans will re-, 
quire the support of the entire stu
dent body. The idea that the Thistle 
work belongs to the staff and them 
alone is erroneous. The success of 
the 1922 Thistle depends on the 
support of the students themselves 
in the coming sales campaigrf.
Other schools have compulsory 
subscription, the average fee charged 
to the students is from six to ten 
dollars per copy. We depend on 
the willingness of our students  to 
back .the book and it is 6old to them 
for about half the actual cost.
one may obtain any book which he 
cannot find in the C. I. T. Library. 
All studonts are requested to be as 
quiet as possible while in the Library.
The Library is now open from 9 
a. m., to 9 p. m., on Monday, Tues
day, Wednesday and Thursday and 
from 9 a. m. to 5 p. m. on Friday and 
Saturday. Jt is closed on Sundays. 
The attendance last year on Friday 
nights was too slight to justify it be
ing open. Before examinations, how
ever, it will be open on Friday even
ings.
DEAN AND MRS. BOSSANGE
GIVE ELEGANT RECEPTION
. J. 
* WANTEDAssistant manager
? for Rifle Team. Plebes are 
*> urged to see Manager OCon?I* nor # Senior Mechanical, Coli* lege* of Engineering.
Director and Mrs. Bossange gave a 
reception to the new students of the 
College of Fine Arts Friday at 8 p. 
m., (September 23. Members of the 
entire school turned out to the annual 
event. Besides dancing to the jazzy 
music of Hughes orchestra, the 
wicked jiggers were entertained by 
the following entertainments:
I. Pot Boiler, a burlesque on modern 
playwrigliting by Drama Freshmen.
II Apache DanceMr. French.
III. Her Choice,One-act melodrama 
Architect Freshmen.
IV. Mack Sennett Bathing Beauties 
Music Freshmen.
V. The Eternal TriangleP. and D. 
students.
VI. The Shooting of Dan McGrew, 
given by Seniors and Juniors of the 
Drama School. The cast: R. Hertz, 
E. Reid, H. Paquin, J. Willard.
The last was a comedy and the re
sult was that all present are not over 
it yet.
Aiter this, refreshments were serv
ed and the committee called it the 
end of a perfect reception.
The committee in charge were: 
Chairman, A. Lubin, C. F. Bowers, T. 
Barney.
STICK STATE STAMPS NOW
Four trips to the State game will 
be glvon to the following mon by the 
Alumni Association of their respec
tive colleges.
1. The Freshman of the Colloge of 
Engineering who soils the most 
stamps for the State trip.
2. The Freshman of the College of 
Industries who sells the most stamps 
for the State trip.
3. The Upperclassman of the iCollege of Engineering who sells the 
most stamps for the State trip.
4. The Upperclassman of the Col
lege of Engineering who soils the 
most stamps for the State trip.
The only provision made in this 
contest is that the winner in oacli 
case must havo sold at loast 250 
stamps to be eligible lor a free trip. 
All tickets sold In this contest must 
be obtalnod from the AlumjaijStudent 
Placement Bureau.
Got tickets and start today for a 
free trip.
(Continued on Pago Four.)
CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS
* Lets Go! Dont YOU be left
I* behind when the Penn State v| 
%? excursion train pulls out of the < 
East Liberty station. *5*,
* Of course nobody wants this 
J* to happen, but why not insure
against it by starting your ?> 
-t* stamp folder with that spare -J*
* two-bits? Once you start to * 
Jc save your stamps, it's a com- *J*
* paratively easy matter to keep n* 
-> going and fill it, ibut so many *
* hesitate at the start.
5* It's a wise Techite who has v 
-I* (hjs folder nearly filled, he's * 
not going to be left behind,
!* when the crowd starts off on *
* the morning of November 15. *! 
I* It may seem somewhat previous
> to. mention that distant date,
I* but all the more reason for *!*
* saving now, then you wont feel *
I* the cost of the ticket. *
I* Just hunt up the nearest <-
agency and park a two-bit piece
* or more there and paste your *? 
*: State-Tech stamps, it's more fun *
than pasting trading tamps and *
* far more profitable. *
Penn State-Tech stamps to 
-> folder: Gee I'm glad Im stuck *
J* on you. *
*>  
.j. -j. .j. .j. .j. ^ v v v *j*
The now lawns add much to the 
genoral appearanco of the campus. Re
turning four our summer vacation we 
wero all ploased with tlio general 
clean-up of the campus and wc are boginning to fool proud of it. All dur
ing tjio summer months gurdonors 
worked hard on the now lawns and 
now It Is up to tlio studonts to koep 
off of thorn. Col. Farley said that 
tlioy wero ploasod with the way the 
students had thus so far co-oporatod 
with them but that the lawns wore ritiU 
new and will have to be left alone. 
Shrubbery will soon bo .planted in ac
cordance with Mr. Ilornbostol's plan.
Improvements are still boing made 
around the Institution and will con
tinue to bo mado for some time. At 
present the force is .'it work on a 
new coal conveyor behind Machinery 
Hall. This will do away with the ex
pense of hauling all the coal and will 
result in economy to the power plant. 
All the ragged slopes around the 
campus are to be covered with trees 
and shrubbery. Next spring the old 
wooden walks are to be removed and 
concrete ones will take their place. 
A tunnel will first have to be con
structed for the steam pipes which 
are now under the general wooden 
walk and after this is done we will 
have some up-to-date walks.
Much credit is to be given President 
Hamerschlag, Frank Orbin and Col. 
Farley for these general improve
ments and we will soon have a campus 
which we will feel proud of.
STUDENT COUNCIL PERSONNEL
The Student Council held a brief 
meeting September 19 for the pur
pose of completing its organization. 
The personnel of the council is as 
follows:
F. I. SmithPresident.
R. Nation  Secretary-treasurer, 
President Senior Class, Eng.
Laura BugherRecorder, Presi
dent Senior Class, M. M. C. C.
Helen ReedPresident M. M. As
sembly.
C. A. BleschPresident Science 
Assembly.
IT. C. GoddenPresident Industries 
Assembly.
A. C. Irwin President Senior 
Class Ind.
E. M. StultzAthletic Council Rep
resentative.
C. B. IliedPresident Arts School.
Thiel College proved to be no match 
for the fast and steady Carnegie 
Tech football team with its combina
tion of fleet hard-hitting backs and 
stone-wall line. Though when it came 
to pure fight and pluck, Tech found 
a most worthy opponent in the team 
from Greenville. At no time during 
the four fifteen-minute periods did 
Thiel stop fighting, and at many times 
they carried the fight to Tech, only 
to have it plucked in the bud by the 
stamina and football knowledge of the 
seasoned Tech team. And, right along 
this line, might be added a fow words 
in favor of the good old fight and 
spirit and determination of Tech to 
effect a good start on the 1921 season. 
At all times throughout the game the 
famous Tech spirit was manifest, al
ways fighting shouldor to shoulder for 
a victor worthy of the name these self
same men made last year.
The team clearly showed tlio many 
advantages dorlved from the period 
of training at Camp Louiso Camogio; 
for novor boforo in an opening game, 
has a Carnegie Tech football toam 
showed such co-ordination in both at
tack and deronso as was shown In 
the gaino with Thiel. The lino-plung
ing backs showed an uncanny ability 
to find tlio holosoponod up by tlio 
forwards, and after finding them a 
wondorful ability to keep to their foot 
and continuo plowing through for sub
stantial gains. But along with this 
good pointers, tlioro wore many rag
ged edgos to their play. Chief among 
these, woro sevoral penalties. Off
side was the cause of many gains be
ing lost. Thoso woro somowhat ex
cusable, in that they wero caused by 
overly enthusiastic play, or a lack or 
co-ordination In play caused by Insuf
ficient playing together In roal games. 
More than likely this will bo correct
ed as the season advancos.
Tho ontlro veteran toam of last 
soason started tho season with but 
two oxcoptlons. Don Pottor played 
end In place of Wlttmor, wlillo Saw
yer, a now-comor from Lancaster, 
hold loft half. Both of thoso mon 
showod good football ability and wlillo 
in the game clearly showod that thoy 
can bo depended upon for steady and 
good playing. "Hod Goddou oceuplod 
tho other end, and In doing ho, proved 
to be ono of tho many stars of tho 
game. Rod back in his old posi
tion at end, soonis to be moro at homo 
that ho was last season In tho backflold. Tho wliolo lino porformod In 
groat style, time and time again 
breaking; through and smearing at
tacks by opposing backs, and when 
our own backs woro carrying tho ball, 
opening up good holes through which 
tho backs plunged for noat gains. In 
tho backfleld Wiorman and the other 
pigskin carriorsr time and time again 
caused the spectators to rlso to their 
seatsi by their marvelous end runs, 
and line bucks. All of the old men 
proved that they were just as good as 
over, and show good chances of de
veloping into real stars, for which 
Carnegie is indeed fortunate. In her 
new men, gathered from various high 
schools, Tech is again most fortunate 
for there are many men who more 
than likely will shine in many games 
this season, and in the future. Along 
this line, a most gratifying thing to 
notice was the great abundance of 
good substitute materials, many of 
whom are just as good as the first 
string menthe truth of the matter 
is that there are no first-string men 
this early for all aro of about the 
same caliber and it will require many 
games before the selection can be 
made. Among the new-comers, Lewis 
and Newman, hailing from far-off Ala
bama, showed up real well. Newman 
showed a wonderful ability in the only 
(Continued) on Page Four.)
Plebet am going to Penn Stat, 
SophThats so.
PlebeYeh, bo! I am buying 
stamps.
SHILLING TO REORGANIZE
Many members of the faculty and 
of the Alumnae will remember the 
days before the warduring the pub
lication of the Shillinga literary 
magazine edited by the students of the 
Departments of Household Arts and 
Crafts, Secretarial Studies and So
cial Work.. After a few successful 
years ca.mo I,ho time when all things 
wore dropped, whoso elimination 
might mean life and service to tho 
boys In France. The Shilling was 
then disorganized.
Miss 'Francis Parry was ever an 
enthusiast for its reorganization. 
Last year at the recommendation of 
the faculty of tho Editorial Depart
ment, a board was elected,, composed 
of members of that department, with 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 192-1THE TARTANPAGE TWO
M. M. C. NEWSHappenings on the CampusPublished every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of the Student Activities Board.
INTER DORM. PARTY
IN RECREATION HAUL
Y. W. C. A. SECRETARY AT
MARGARET MORRISON
ARTS ASSEMBLY
The Artists of Tech turned out en 
masse for assembly last Wednesday 
in the College of Fine Arts. Due to 
the lack of electricity the meeting was 
held In the exhibition room instead of 
the Little Theater. Dean Bossange, 
director of the college, welcomed the 
Plebes and gave a brief resume of the 
scope of worty:; told of all the inspir
ing surroundings and of the wonder
ful opportunities for personal develop
ment in every way possible. He introduced the new members of the faculty 
who have come from Pitt, due to the 
discontinuance of several courses at 
that institution.
Among those introduced were: 
Messrs. I. C. Clayter and W. H. Klar, 
who come to the Department of Ap
plied Art. The Misses Canfield, Kenly and Erhart, who will be in the 
music department. Mr. MacGil'oroy 
comes to the P. & I. department from 
Pratt Institute of Brooklyn and will 
teach Life. Mr. Bayard, who was 
here two years ago, has returned to 
take charge of the executive end of 
the P. & I. department. Mr. Siernfield has returned, after an absence 
abroad for two years, to assume 
charge of the architectural depart
ment. Mr. Moorehead has also return
ed and Mr. Wyclcoff, scene designer, 
has come to the drama department.
Dean Bossange asked that the men 
refrain from wearing their hats inside 
the building and finished by inviting 
all of the Freshmen to attend a recep
tion to be given in their honor by 
Dean and Mrs. Bossange in the Arts 
building on Friday evening, the twen
ty-third.
President Hammerschlag arrived 
and said that he was thoroughly con
vinced that instead of being the 
drones that many on the campus 
thought they were, the students of 
the College of Fine arts were without 
doubt, the very hardest workers at 
Tech and he gave many concrete ex
amples. He told how necessary it is 
that the student possess the true ar
tists soul in order to be truly recog
nized by the world. There is no place 
in Arts for the frivolous and timewasters and they should be sought out 
and eliminated.
Carl Reid, president of Arts As
sembly, asked that every assembly be 
as well attended as that assembled 
and stated that they would be called 
together only once every two weeks 
except for special reasons.
Arthur Lubin, in charge of enter
tainment for the Dean's reception, 
gave a short report.
Treasurer Higliberger gave a re
port of the finances of the school and 
President Reid announced a standing 
social committee to have charge of 
the Wednesday afternoon dances, etc, 
composed of J. Franklin, chairman; 
Marion Hick, Katherine Schumnn and 
PhilDy Burgwin. A few minor an
nouncements for the Plebes concluded 
the first assembly of what promises to 
be the best year yet at Arts.
The Recreation Hall was the Been? 
of an Inter House party on Thurj. 
day evening. The affair was planner 
by Miss Ann Daugherty and th5 
Courtesy Committee, to help the new 
girls get acquainted with the giri5 
in houses other than their own 
The evening was spent in playing 
games and dancing.
Any 6tudent volunteers in the col
lege and those interested in Y. W. 
activities will he glad to know that 
,Miss Holliday a Student Volunteer 
Secretary, will be our guest October 
3. Miss Holliday is traveling 
through this section visiting other 
colleges and schools and will be 
with us the third and the University 
of Pittsburgh, the 4th.
She will meet in conference with 
the Y. W. cabinet. She is also very 
anxious to meet our student volun
teers.
MELLON HALLH. SIMPSON .. 
R. II. GUYTONELECTS PRESIDEN'
Mrs.'Arthur Elliot, who left schoii 
last spring as Miss Gladys Richinond, has resigned as President 'of 
Mellon Hall. Mrs. Elliott is a Sen
ior in the Household Economics Department and the announcement cf 
the marriage came as a great sur
prise to her class mates.
Mies Margaret Kimmel has been 
chosen to succeed Mrs. Elliot.
TO THE UNI VESITY GIRLS
The Y. W. C.x A. of Margaret Mor
rison College wishes through this 
little greeting to welcome the girls 
from the University who have come 
over to be with us this year. W'e 
want you to know that we hope in 
some little waythrough rriendship 
on the campus and in the classes 
to make up as best we can for you 
having to leave your school and in
timate -friends.DR. HAMERSCHLAG
SPEAKS AT ASSEMBLYSTRINGERS AT Y. W. C. A. TEA
The first regular assembly of the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 
was held Wednesday. Everyone en
joyed this hour immensely as the 
first real back to college thrill of 
the year. The assembly was crowd
ed and decorated by rows of Fresh
men standing along the walls. Said 
Freshmen presented a very beautiful 
basket of flowers to Miss Breed.
President Hmerschlag gave a few 
brief reminiscnces of the early days 
of the college and thought aloud" on 
the subject of American University 
Life. He protested vigorously against 
the common amusements "of the rahrah variety, where one dances or 
Spends hours without saying or 
thinking anything."
On Monday afternoon the Y. W. C. 
A. entertained at tea in honor of 
the new girls. Each Big Sister 
to her Little Sisterand many 
adopted a few more during the 
afternoonand had her meet as 
many other girls as possible. Ap
proximately four hundred girls gath
ered in the Ree Hall and were en
tertained by the Stringers.
CITMAS CLUB TO MEET
The Citmas Club will hold the 
first meeting of the year in Science 
club room on next Wednesday even
ing at eight oclock. All Masons 
on the campus are cordially invited 
to attend. This is the third year of 
the organization and is a very suc
cessful club represtative of the fra
ternity.
1^
| Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
| Cor. Craig and Forbes 
| Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
| Nearest and Best
| Laundry Agency.
You wont miss those two-bits a 
a day. Invest in stamps.
PRESIDENT:
D. A. Gardner
F. C. Smith
Bright 
A. B. Way 
W. V. Jones 
H. Smith 
TREASURER:
M. Matter 
K. E. Gibson 
O. W. Will 
SECRETARY:
L. H. Harris
Whitman
G. E. 'Slye.
FINEST W0BK
OPPOSITE LIBRAEY
C. M. Stauft
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
NEW FRESHMAN RULING
All Freuhmcn who desire to obtain exemption from Plebe Regulations 
must report to the Regulations Committees of their respective colleges before 
October 10. A new ruling passed by the Student Council makes this pro
cedure necessary.
The ruling Is as follows: Any student having completed one year at any 
recognized college or university is eligible for exemption from Freshman 
regulations. ,
The chairmen of the Regulations Committees of the various colleges are: 
ArtsFritz Bowers.
IndustriesW. W. McCollum.
M. M. C. C.Helen Mnorupi.
EngineeringH. D. Skyrm.
INDUSTRIES FRESHMEN MEET
The first meeting, of the Freshmen 
class of tho division of the Industries, 
was held in the assembly room of 
tho Industries building on Friday, Septembor 23. Roger Marshall, president 
of the Junior class, president, and tho 
following temporary officers were 
elected: President, D. K. Mims; vice 
president, O. M. Lundy; secretary, S. 
Wossel. Thoso mon will hold office 
for ono month at the end of which 
time an election will bo hold.
Short talks by Bob iSluith, Sopho
more president; W. W. McCullum, 
chairman flf the Plebe Regulations 
Conun ittoe, and T. S. Replier, presi
dent of the Science Junior class, were 
given.
ARTS PLEBES MEET
The Plebes of Arts met last Thurs
day in Room 102, where they were 
given a brief idea of the organiza
tion of student affairs at Design by 
Carl Reid. Vincent Roy, Sophomore 
class president, took charge of the 
meeting and tho class proceeded to 
eliact Philip Thorne of. the drama 
department as student senate 
representative. Nunmerous nomi
nations, which were posted later, were 
made for the various other offices and 
t he election will take place on Thurs
day, September 29, in Room 102 at 1 
p. m. Every Plebe in Arts is expected 
to be present at this meeting.
6100 PENN AVENUE
WHOS WHO ON TECH CAMPUS
President Student; Council...............
President Science Senate.................
President Science Senior Class.......
President Arts Assembly..................
President Arts Senior Class............
President Industries Assembly.......
President Senior Class..............1.....
President M. M. C. C. Senate.........
President M. M. C. C. Senior Class.
President Athletic Council..............
President Athletic Association......
Manager Football.............................
Manager Cross Country..................
Manager Musical Clubs....................
Editor in-Chief Thistle.....................
Business. Manager Thistle...............
Secretary Y. M. C. A......................
President Rifle Club.....................
Manager Rifle Team.........................
..........P. I. Smith
......C. B. Biesen
 R. B. Nation
............C. B. Ried
......W. M. Burke
.....H. G. Goddcn
..........A. C. Irvin
..........Helen Reed
....Laura Bugher 
....C. C. Overend 
......Gordon First
 C. B. Blescli
 John Nation
..........G. L. Jordy
..C. E. Landefeld
..........J. D. Evans
.Mr. R. V. Davis
 C. A. Walter
.G. K. OConnor
PLEBE TRIAL
FRESHMAN R. O. T. C. ASSEMBLY
On Thursday at 4:30 p. m the 
drafting room of the Architectural 
Department was the scene of a Plebe 
trial. After the ceremony of in
stalling, Mr. Rice, as judge for the 
ensuing year, the twelve good men of 
the jury were sworn in. All was car
ried out in a dignified manner. The 
faces on the prisoners were solemn 
arid one would have thought that they 
were awaiting sentence for life im
prisonment. The verdicts were of va
rious kinds, some of the Plebes get
ting their first bath in the traditional 
sink.
Last Wednesday the annual Fresh
man R. O. T. C. Assembly was held. 
Colonel Brookes started things hum
ming by introducing a former Tech 
man to the new class, who proceeded 
to emphasize the necessity for the 
Plebes to seriously consider taking 
an R. O. T. C. course.
He lArought out the fact that th^ 
war increased the salaries of disci
plined men. It improved the' moral 
of the men, who, upon goiing into 
the army acquired military discipline. 
Upon returning from the service 
these men were prepared and trained 
to do what they .were told and do 
it well. This greatly increased their 
value to the employer, and conse
quently. they ^ were able to command 
larger salaries than previously. The 
army had also trained them to do 
big.things in an efficient and orderly 
manner and had given them confi
dence in themselves. These factors 
made themselves, felt, , upon their re* 
turning to civilian lives, and we 
now find ex-service men, who had 
never been heard of previously, oc
cupying prominent places and doing 
-big things.
While wo do not like to look 
ahead as far as the next war, still 
it is necessary to have preparedness 
as a natiQnal motto. It is a wait? 
of life for a college man to be draft
ed ^into thp regular army. He is pre
pared by the R. O. T. C. course to 
hold a . commission that will enable 
him to give the nation the benefit 
of his knowledge. He learns through 
the R. O. T. C. how to take care of 
himself and is not likely to fall a 
victim of disease.
pgnp^
Preacher for Students
The Rev. R. Emory Beetham, I
D. D., minister of the Oak- |f
land Methodist Church, f
Forbes and Boquet Streets, p
was selected for this pulpit ' M
" with special reference to the ifj
students. Dr. Beetham was ||
with the Boys in France M
hm. tor eight months. He was a M
finWy college president for seven H
years. He knows college stu- |
wftk 4^jS!. )dents and has a message for 
jjlli8r JMroja them. 
jSaSffiT HEAR HIM REGULARLY
Sunday Mornings at Eleven.
HBk h Vagabond Club. Bible
MSBMBnW-. Classes, Game Rooms, Social
groups specially arranged for 
students.
IND. SOPH PLEBE SMOKER
The annual smoker, given .by the 
Sophomore class to the Plebes of 
the College of Industries, is to be 
held on Friday night in the Carne
gie Union. ?
There will be plenty of entertain
ment, music and eats. The enter
tainment will be boxing bouts and 
vaudeville. The usual good eats will 
be cider and doughnuts and smokes 
plentiful.
This affair hns always been a 
big event at Tech and this year is 
oxpoetod, by tho hard working com
mittee to ho a. greater success than 
evor. Tho purpose of tho smoker is 
to have tho Sophomores and Plebes 
jhocomo better acquainted- and give 
tho first year men a glimpse of one 
of tho other phases of colloge life. v
NEW YORK
'Jh'Cost of the famous buildings of the world 
are equipped with Otis Elevators
!+* Il'OOLirORTH TOWER  the tallest 
office building;'the Equitable  the largest; the 
Singer Buildingin -fact most of the buildings 
that make up the best known sky line in the 
world, are equipped with Otis Elevators.
Few people realize the amount of wealth of 
Manhattan Island that is due to the creation 
and development of modern vertical transporta
tion by the Otis Elevator Company. New York 
City could not grow wider hemmed in as it 
was by the two rivers ami the hay. It had to 
grow skyward.
And now, the Otis Elevators in New York City 
carry daily more than twice the number of pas
sengers earned by all the traction lines of New 
Yorksubway, surface, elevated and railroads. 
Nothing short of a book would adequately tell 
the story of Otis in New York alone.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
SENIOR ARTS MEETING
Tho Senior Class at Design met in 
Room 102 last Friday and elected Nel
son P. Rico as their student senate 
representative. They also decided 
that there should be no regular dues 
but the necessary money shall be 
raised by special assessments.
RICHARD B. CALLAHAN 
DR. BEETHAM Director Student Work.
THE CHURCH HOUSE IS ALWAYS OPEN FOR STUDENTSBuy Penn-State stamps with that 
loose quarter.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1921THE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
SET
RESERVE COACH
lit;::
COACH PARK
The Tech Reserves will be coached 
this year by Rev. Robert Park, a Pres
byterian minister of Parnassus, but 
an old football player and a good one. 
Dr. Park has an enviable record on 
the gridiron. Twenty years ago he 
played tackle on the Syracuse High 
School eleven. From 1901-1904 he 
played halfback and fullback on the 
Syracuse University team and did the 
punting for the eleven. He also rowed 
No. 4 on the Syracuse University 
Freshman crew during the spring o 
1901.
In 1905 and 1906 Park taught Eng
lish and coached the Arkansas Mili
tary Academy team of Little Rock, 
Ark., and won the championship of 
the state for schools and colleges.
From 1907 to 1909 he attended the 
Reformed Presbyterian Theological 
Seminary, Northside, Pittsburgh, and 
during the 1908 and 1909 seasons he 
coached Allegheny High School team.
During the 1915, 1916 /and 1917 
seasons he coached the Parnassus 
High School team and won the cham
pionship of the Allegheny ValleyKiski Association.. He also Assisted 
for short periods at Kentucky State 
University and Geneva. 
Dr. Park received his football train
ing under E. R. Sweetland, the old 
Cornell tackle. '
Football Team
Looks GoodOn The Plaid Screen
Newcomers Add Strength  
Good Punters on Squad
TENNIS TOURNAMENT STARTED.
The second annual tennis tourna
ment for students of Carnegie Tech 
started on Monday and has now pro
ceeded through the first two rounds. 
In order that the tournament can be 
finished before the cold weather sets 
in, and makes the courts unfit for 
further play this fall, all matches in 
the first three rounds must be played 
this week, before Saturday afternoon. 
All matches not played before that 
time will be' forfeited, id order that 
the tournament can advance.
The largest entry list In the history 
of the tournament has enrolled this 
fall, and the competition should be 
extremely keen, for among the list of 
players are many of known ability, 
and no doubt there are many among 
the new-comers who might or might 
not have an ability equal to or either 
greater than some of the men of last 
year's players.
All matches will be played on the 
Margaret Morrison courts during the 
afternoon. Gallaries are assured of 
good tennis any afternoon, shouid 
the}* take the trouble to attend the 
play-offs. Many of the men who are 
playing in this tournament will no 
doubt become actively engaged in the 
collegiate matches next spring, and 
now is a good time to come out and 
get a good line on the prospects for 
this years team.
The game with Thiel showed to 
the student body and a representative 
body of Pittsburghs football follow
ers that the Carnegie Tech football 
team has wonderful* prospects of de
veloping into a most formidable ma
chine. The game, while not being 
a hard one, nevertheless was hard 
enough to show the natural ability 
and fight as should be shown by any 
football team in order to go througn 
a hard schedule with any amount 
of success. There were ragged 
edges which no doubt will be erased 
this w.eek in pointing for Geneva. 
But on the whole, the good things 
observed far more than make up for 
the bad things seen.
Tech is most fortunate in hav
ing a large number of substitutes to 
rush in when any player becomes 
hurt, or is worn-down by hard play. 
This is. something which was lack
ing iast season, and was sorely 
missed in many big games. Amon; 
these are Alexander, Ave, Berberich, 
Gove, Griffon, Hable. Each one of 
these men proved that they have the 
goods when shoved into the fray 
last Saturday.
In the punting department, Tech 
also showed a vast improvement 
over last season. We are fortunate 
in having at least four men who 
can punt above the average. New
man is the best bet along this line, 
with Anderson, Pittman. and Lewis 
coming very little below the stand
ard. Newmans punts in Saturdays 
game each went over fifty yards. 
This is a most favorable comparison 
with the punts of last season, which 
barely ever went over twenty-five 
yards.
In the back-field, the greatest im
provement was shown, for Tech is 
fortunate in having no less than ten 
good men to pick from. All of these 
men 6how signs of good playing abil
ity. The old men as Robertson, 
Wierman, Pittman, Anderson, Brumibaugh all show that they can be 
counted upon to give even better 
service than they gave last season. 
Lewis, a newcomer srom Alabama, 
showed that he "can run the ends 
well, and at the same time, give a 
goo:! account of himself in off-tackle 
plays. Gov.e, from Lorain, Ohio, 
showed that he is a mighty hard 
man to stop, combining a swift pick
up, and great momentum when start
ed, and for that reason is a hard 
man to stop, hitting any man who 
tackles him hard. In Mills and Moeaner, Tech has two men who will 
prove wonders in bucking straight 
through the line. Mills bends over 
and plows straight into the line 
with irresistable force, as does 
Moessner, but at the same time, 
showing a tendency to hit at random 
instead of picking a hole, as Brum
baugh does, which gives Brumbaugh 
a slight edge over them.
The team will point the following 
week for Geneva with ir'iany scrim 
mages and signal drills, with pros
pects of many new plays worked up.
BY H. L. MOERSFELDER
THE PENN STATE-TECH GAME
What the football team needs, playing on a foreign field, more than 
anything, is the support and cheering of the student body. One may recall 
that it was in the games played away from Pittsburgh last year when 
Tech failed to come out on top. The home games were well attended, the 
team felt the student body behind them at those contests, and won, but 
away from home, the team was unsupported, and lost.
The Penn State-Tech game is the most important on the Tech schedule 
this year. It is well known that the Mount Nittany eleven is always among 
the foremost in the east. If Tech makes good against this team, her repu*- 
tation as a first-class eleven, for which it has been struggling for some time, 
will be a realization.
Why not a large crowd at the game? The.stamps and folders make~an 
economical and convenient way of buying your ticket. There is still time 
to save, but remember the game is November fifth, so get your stamps into 
the folders, youll remember this trip. 
A FAST GRID MAN
GENEVA TO BE 
STUBBORN FOE
Made Good.Showing Against 
Pitt Last Saturday
Tech is fortunate in having for a candidate for its eleven this fall, 
a man who has had much experience in football and is a streak of lightning 
on the cinder track.
The man, Bernard Szold, played half back on Eddie Harts St. Nazaire; 
Tiger football team, overseas. He also played as a regular, left half on t'ie 
Northwestern University eleven and held the same berth in 1917 on the De 
Pauw team.
Nor has Szolds experience in athletics been confined to football. He 
is holder of the Indiana 440-yard record and of the Northwestern 440-yard 
record for both indoor and outdoor tracks, and is also joint holder of Iowa 
State 440-yard record. In competition, in Chicago Athletic Association, he 
finished second in the All-Western conference. Szold was captain-elect of 
Northwestern University track team.<1 C * * * *
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION CONSTITUTION AMENDMENT
Following the provision in the Constitution of the Athletic Association 
that amendments before being voted upon shall have been published two 
weeks before preceding such vote, the Secretary of the Athletic Council wishes 
to call attention to the following action taken by the Council in their Sep
tember meeting, Friday, September 23rd.
Moved that Article X, Section 1, of the Constitution of the Athletic As
sociation which reads: This constitution may be amended by a majority
vote of the active members of the Association, providing that such amend
ments before being voted upon, shall have been published two weeks pre
ceding such vote, shall be changed to read: This Constitution may be
amended at any regular meeting of the Athletic Council, by two-thirds of the 
members present, providing that a written notice stating the change in the 
Constitution has been sent to each member of the Athletic Council at loast 
five days prior to the date of the meeting at which the vote was taken."
The above action will be placed before the student body at. the approach
ing general assembly and it is hoped that favorable action will bo taken. 
The present arrangement is cumbersome and inefficient and in view or the 
fact that the student body are ably represented each year by a man from 
each college, the representatives this year being Henderson, football guard, 
of Science; Irwin, captain of football, of Industries, and Stults, captain of the 
track team, of Arts, they are always sure under the proposed arrangement 
of having their interests properly taken care of.
RIFLE TEAM AS EXTENSIVE PLANS
AmericanRestaurant
3808 FORBES ST.
We serve cleanest food 
at a reasonable price. 
Open Day and Night.
On Thursday evening, September 22, the members of last years Rifle 
Team met and discussed plans for the coming year.
It was decided that an Interclass Rifle Competition be held, and that a 
handsome trophy be awarded to the highest individual point scoror. To 
make the contest more interesting and to bring out new material, mombers 
of last years Varsity Rifle Squad will not be eligible to compete. Practice 
in the new improved range in the College of Fine Arts building will begin 
next Monday afternoon, and every MAN is urged to go out and represent his 
class.
Plans are under way for organizing a girls rifle team, for intra-mural 
competition, membership on the team to count toward the award of a varsity 
sweater. As soon as Dean Scales and Doctor Blair approve of the plans, 
a detailed announcement will appear in the Tartan, and noticos will be posted 
on the Margaret Morrison and Arts bulletin boards.
The National Rifle Association, of which the Tech Club is a chapter, 
has promised to send 30,000 rounds of ammunition, the quota for 1921-1922. 
This and the 10 Winchester and 12 Stevens rifles are sufficient to accommo
date at least 175 persons, and tomorrow ovening (Thursday) a meeting will 
be held in Room GO, Science, for the admission of new members. Plobos 
are especially urged to attend and to Join. Officers for the year will be 
elected.
As Tor the Rifle Teamit is a distinctly separate organization from the 
Rifle Club. It is no more a part of the Rifle Club than the Tennis Team is 
a part of the Tennis Club. The prospects for the year are excellent. Of 
last years team, Hugh Torbert did not return to Day School, and Louis New
man was lost through graduation. However, Newman will 'act as assistant 
to Coach H. E. Paulson, who is a member of the Fort Pitt Rifle Club, and 
is one of the foremost shots in the United States. Among those who will 
be back from last years team are: Byler, Grimm, Hauser, Thompson, Har
wood, Woolley, Ward, Foster, Squires, Hammill and Wolter.
There is a possibility of having a Freshman team, which will compote 
against Freshman teams of other colleges and against High School teams.
Manager OConnor reports that he is negotiating for matches with sev
eral colleges and is trying to arrange for special telegraphic, post season 
matches with Oxford and Cambridge Universities of England. The foam 
will begin practice on December the first. By that time the interclass com
petition will have been decided, and much new material will have been 
discovered.
Altogether Too Fussy.
Jud Tunkins says he knows a man 
so particular about grammar that he'll 
sit and criticize the literary style of a 
promissory note instead of hustling 
around and trying to pay It.
Finest of All Epitaphs.
When I lie down for the last time, 
with Iny face up toward the stars, I 
want no finer monument above me than 
a simple slab with this line on it: He 
lived the white life.Exchange.
PERSONNEL OF VARSITY FOOTBALL SQUAD
Genove College will bo entertained 
this coming Saturday on Tech field 
by the C. I. T. football team in what 
gives promise of becoming one of 
most stubbornly contested of Techs 
home games. Geneva, like Tech, was 
fortunate in having practically their 
entire last years team return to the 
fold, and for that reason Coach Bridenbaugli has molded together a for
midable team. r
In their game last Saturday with 
Pitt, the famous team of Pop War
ner was hold to a 7-0 score during 
the first half, and that only in the last 
fifteen minutes* of play was Pitt able 
to roll lip any appreciable score. This 
was only done through the aid of 
sending in fresh substitutes, white 
Geneva was unable to do this same, 
because or a lack of them. This will 
more than likejy be the case this 
week when the Tech football team 
meets them. There will be a wonder
ful game, full of plenty of fight, and 
football ability throughout, with Tech 
and Geneva both giving blow .for 
blow. In Captain Tippen and Harr, 
ends, Geneva has two men who will 
prove a hard obstacle for the Tech 
backs* to skirt. In the backfiekl, Jim>- 
mie Denton and Krotzer must be 
watched, for they ,are Genevas best 
bets on the offensive.
Geneva won the championship of 
the Class B Colleges last year, and 
shows good signs of repeating this 
year with their veteran team on the 
field. Only four men were lost, each 
one of whom were good men, but, 
nevertheless, leaving good men 
around whom, as a neucleus a good 
team will bo built. Last season the 
only games lost were to Pitt and 
Washington and Jofforson, and thoso 
two teams wore t he only two teams to 
score upon them.
Geneva is coming to Tech field full 
of confidence, and.with a determina
tion to glvo Toch the game of the
TECH FULLBACK
CHESTER C. BRUMBAUGH
Brumbaugh (Science Junior) age 
21, height 5 feet 10 inches, weight 1G1 
pounds. He will be remembered for 
his excellent work at fullback, from 
which he won his letter.
He is out again this year fighting 
determinedly for his old position, and 
from present indications it seems as
sured that ho will appear again in the 
Shibos backfleld tljls year.
Brummy camo to us from the 
Tarentum, Pa., High School, whero 
he played both football and basket
ball and held a place on the track 
team.
A football C" is not his only ath
letic achievement at Toch, for he has 
<*von his letter in track also, and has 
represented us in the Penn relays for 
two years.
Other activitiesPresident of  the 
Sopliomore Class 1920-21, Druids and 
Dolta 'Skull pledge. Ho is a member 
of the Woodlawn club.
You wJll be sorry when the Tech 
special leaves If you don't havo a 
stamp foldor.
THE PUPPET
Carnegie Tech's fun book, will bo 
out soon, to humor and bring jy to 
the campus. This will relieve the stu
dent from gloom experienced during 
the grim period of beginning classes.
BAND PRACTICE
Every Tuesday and Thursday m*hts 
at 7:30. p. m., in the Union.
We've Fitted 
For 
Over 40 
Years.
You alwayo "look around" 
when new season brings new 
garments, and correct shoes arc 
quite as important.
So please accept our Invitation 
to stop In and see the new shoe 
styles for Fallnever were they 
moro beautiful, or more varied.
New Fall 8hoes 
now In stock.
Ludebuehl & Son
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year.
DELL PHONE
Classes each evening. Private lessons daily.
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
rust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital ------- $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
$300.000.00
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
Third rowH. C. Godden (captain last year), C. L. Hable, H. L. Hen
derson, J. L. Taylor, Berberich, H. G. Wlttmer, D. C. Ave.
Top rowWalter P. Steffens (coach), R. L. Pittman, C. C. Brumbaugh, 
Dan Potter, A. Zelt, Robert N. Waddell (assistant coach), Frank H. Haaren 
(graduate manager).
We Also Carry Slightly Used Sets at Very Low Prices.
410 MARKET 8T.
Opp. McCann's.
l^iiiiiiniiHniiiiiniflnnniiiuiiuiiiQinuiiiniiiiiiOiniiiiniiininiiiniiininnDniiiinniniiitiiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiaiiiiniiiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiitniuiJiiniiiniiiii^
cA NDERSONS
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
!Dniiiismiiiitii!iriiiiii!inii!iiiniiiiiiiininiiiiiiinmiuiiiiii[i!J!!i;iDiiui!iii!i[nfiiuiDUiiii[niiiD!!!!Daiiiiiiiiii:ai!ii!iiiiiiininiiiiiiiiiiniiininu!igi!ti)i!iioitfliiniffi
$10.00Wolks
DRAWING
From left to right, front rowC. B. Newman, J. E. Lewis, M. A. Rosenbloom, F. S. White, A. C. Irwin (Capt.), S. J. Gove, B. Szold, R. Smith, H. 
L Griffin.
Second rowJ. E. Mills, K. S. Alexander, J. A. Robertson, Lloyd Com
fort, A. E. Wierman, H. L. Sawyer, H. O. Sprinkle, J. L. Anderson.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1921
TEGH NEEDS YOU-ENUST NOW
OUR ALUMNI 
HISTORY TO 
BE WRITTEN
Will Need Statistics and 
Information
What do you think of the plan?
It is the desire of the Alumni office 
to begin to compile information for 
the writing of an Alumni History. For 
fifteen years Tech lias been prog
ressing very rapidly and each year 
graduating larger classes. This means 
that since 1905 to 1921, 3,172 have 
heen graduated ana approximately 18,-
000 have spent one year or more in 
the institution.
During this time our alumni have 
had the opportunity of making their 
first marks in the business world, and 
can probably furnish the office with 
much information that otherwise 
might not come to our attention.
Also during the early years of Tech 
there were a lot of our present aluvrfnl 
who were very active as students, 
and who did real things for the insti
tution which do not show in the old 
records of the Thistle, Tartan, etc., 
and it Is such information that we aret 
anxious to get.
This is the first caJll for every Tech 
man and woman to send in any in
formation that you think will be cf 
help in compiling data for a history. 
'Send in pictures, snapshots, personal 
write-ups. football games, theater par
ties, Pitt fights, freshman hazing, pro
fessors around school and anything 
that you might have.
If you like the idea, say so by send
ing the material. We must have co
operation to accomplish this big job. 
Its for YOU and for the records at 
Tech. After all, it is an alumni or
ganization that makes a college. Per
sonal advertising and your place in 
the world are' good avenues lor help
ing to bettor your institution.
YOU are the ones we want to know 
about. Send material now to Mr. G. 
;U Tllbrook, Alumni Secretary, or Mr. 
J. W. Batman, assistant.
MANY ENROLL IN R. O. T. C.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
invaluable to him. It gave him ex
perience In handling mom that h,e 
would never have obtainod In any 
other ^vay. Upbn his return ho re
joined tho flrmi he had previously 
iboon attached to, and due to his in
creased oxporionco in tho handling of 
men ho In today receiving six times 
as much ant he did before the war. lie 
also said that he had oven managers 
with the firm, all of whom wore re
ceiving big pay and their positions 
wore obtainod entirely duo to tho fact 
iluit they had had military experience 
in managing men. lie said that tech
nical studies were exceedingly valu
able, but that any scientific firm 
could obtain any member of techni
cal experts for loss than fifty dollars 
a. week, but that when the men allow
ed their ability to handle men, to got 
the best team work out of a group of 
men, their value to their employers at 
onco jumped many hundred percent. 
He oxplalned to the students that in 
the Military Department they, would 
get this opportunity of learning the 
handling of men which no technical 
education could give them. For that 
reason he urged every student who 
possibly could do so, to take the mil
itary training.
MANY ENROLL IN R. O. T. C.
(Continued From Page One.) 
perience nor took the slightest inter
est in military matters, and when the 
war broke out he found himself at 
the highest point in his profession 
that he could expect to reach. He 
volunteered and went abroad, enlist
ing as a private and returning as a 
Lieutenant Colonel, having been 
wounded twice and received three 
decorations. He said that his ex
perience with the military forces was
, SCHILLING TO REORGANIZE
(Continued From Page One.) 
an advisory committee of Dr. Mc
Leod and Mrs. Yerniorcken.
At present the boardi Is' hard at 
work on tho first publication which 
will appear In the near future. Good 
material will 'be appreciated and 
every aspirant Is encouraged to ac
tion.
Wednesday at Margaret Morrison 
Assembly you will hear more of tho 
future plans. The board requests 
the support of everyone who likes to 
see Tech grow.
FOUND
Eversliap silver pencil.
One fountain pen.
One gold High School ring.
One meerchaum pipe.
<Call at Dean Tarbells office.
INDUSTRIES BOARD MEETING
The first hoard of governors meet
ing l'or school year 1921-22 was held 
last Thursday evening with every 
member present.
President Little gave a short talk, 
outlining tho work for the year, and 
urged every man to get busy. It was 
decided that the board offer two tick
ets to tho Penn State game to two In
dustries students, one Freshmen and 
one Upperclassman, selling the most 
stamps over 250.
The following elections were held:
G. T. Heddaeus was elected as repre
sentative to S. A. S. Mr. R. S. Itabensteln as representative to Aluranl 
Federation Board. Mr. L. T. Kelly 
to take the place of E. Wendels, Jr., 
who has resigned from the Industries 
Bourd..
General discussion was entered into 
in regard to the (location of the new 
gymnasium and an alumni member
ship drive.
FIRST Y. M. C. A. VESPER HELD
(Continued From Page One) 
after the advent in college. Unfor
tunately, the popular mood is away 
from all 1ellglon, and so the student 
misses some of the best things that 
life can offer to him or her on this 
account. For there is a third some
thing in addition to mind and body, 
and that Is religion. Just as no mat
ter what your ideas and theories 
on soihe physical phenomenon may 
(be, that phemnenon goes on, just 
so the facts of the spiritual world 
go on, no matter what you may be
lieve or disbelieve concerning them. 
Dr. Russel 'brought out the values of 
three Christian virtues which at the 
present time, have come to be de
nied to a greater extent than any 
other Christian doctrines in every
day lire. These are Cliistlan humil
ity, Christian brotherhood, and the 
Christian virtue of loving ones 
neighbor as oneself. In conclusion 
he again stressed the point that re
ligion is of value to the college man, 
as In Ills experience, the best ath
letes and the best students had been 
those that had a basis of religion. 
Tli'e program of the service was as 
follows:
Organ Prelude____Mr, Matthew Frey
iSong Service... .Mr. T. E. Wearsley 
Responsive Reading..Mr. S. E. Dibble
Prayer ..................................Mr. Davis
Vocal Solo, "How Long Wilt Thou
Forget Me, Miotzke......................
........................Mrs. C. M. Clemson
Address...................Dr. Oliver Russel
Hymn.....................Mr. T. E. Yearsley
Benodlctlon.............Dr. Oliver Russel
Organ Postlude....Mr. Matthew Frey
STUDENT COUNCIL
(Continued From Page One)
clal and social success of tho. dancoa 
to be held that tho council decided 
on tills regulation.
In the future the secretary of oach 
school senate shall submit to pie 
Student Council a. review of each 
month business Including a financial 
report.
Miss Helen Reed and Al. Irwin 
wore appointed to meet with those 
In -charge of the social affairs of 
the different school organizations and 
so far as possible to formulate an 
official student social calendar.
Carl Reid was appointed tempor
ary chairman of the Varsity Night 
Committee. Varsity Night this yeai
i6 to 'be held on November 11, follow
ing the Bethany game. It will prob
ably will be similar to Varsity Niglu 
as held last year.
C. Blesh. was appointed a commit
tee to arrange for the programs1 for 
the General Assemblies held through
out the year.
The campus Y. M. C. A. was givei 
recognition as a student activity.
The council president asked each 
school head to furnish him a list of 
students in his school who could he 
used for committee work.
HAVE CHANGED NAME
The formally) announced College 
Club dances will not be held und er 
that namhe, because it has' been 
learned that there is a College. Club 
of Pittsburgh, organized twelve years 
ago by the College Women of tills 
city and vicinity.
The schedule announced will be 
carried through with an added fea
ture every Saturday. The opening 
event, will be this Saturday. Miss 
Margaret. Schaub will give a few of 
her olovor offerings of the latest 
hits, along with Warnings Orchestra 
of Tyrone. Tho now name of tho 
organization will be announced at 
tho opening dance.
ScUMMiiUSlcUSMSMSiSJSJSMSJSiSJSMfiiSiS/SM
LOST
During the contest on Friday,  
September 16, a locker key, No. 
1428; two mandolin picks and E 
Money. Person who picked J| 
them up please hold good his [i 
promise. ||
JOHN D. JAREMA 
Section E.
ELECT YOUR 
CLASS SEC. 
ALUMNI
It Will Revive School Interest 
of Classmates
As a suggestion to the classes from 
1909 to 1916, elect a secretary to keep 
your organization intact and to take 
care of class matters. The classes 
from 1916 to 1921 are very well or
ganized and are producing real work, 
due to their organization.
If each class would elect a secre
tary it would be a great help to the 
alumni secretary, and would make 
the whole alumni body more efficient. 
Some of the things class secretaries 
can help ^with are Alumni Member
ship Drives, Glass Reunions, Football 
Game Parties, Theater Parties, Cam
pus Week, Etc.
Have an early meeting of your class 
and elect a good live wire for secre
tary. You will soon realize the bene
fits. The Alumni office will be glad 
to help you get organized.
Pass the word along and get to
gether soon.
TECH TRIMS THIEL 42-0
(Continued From Page One.) 
two points he was called upon to per
form, both of them going at least fifty 
yards. Lewis, at quarterback, showed 
a nice ability to run either around the 
end or through the line. Mills, Moessner and Gove each showed good abil
ity at carrying the ball and will give 
material aid in the future for their 
ability to absorb shocks and knocks, 
and still remain in the battle. In the 
line the hew men performing .Satur
day were, aside from Newman, Potter. 
Alexander, Flannery and Taylor, all 
of whom performed in a most credit
able style:
THE LINE-UP
Potter'..........L. E.................Mould
Comfort.............L. T. ....Templeton
Henderson......... L. G.1................Seiple
Irwin (Ca.pt.) .... C..................Mitchell
Rosenbloom........ R. G............................................. .Johns
Sprinkle...........R. T. ..Roth OCapt.)
Godden .............. R. E................Duffort
Wierman ........... Q...............Christman
Sawyer............. L. H. ...........Johnson
Anderson.........R. II. _______ .McCoy
Brumbaugh .... F. B............Thomas
Substitutions: Robertson for Wier
man, Mills for Brumbaugh, Pittman 
for 'Sawyer, liable for Godden, Wier
man for Mills, Potter for Newman, 
Brumbaiigh for Pittman, Pittman for 
Wlorman, Lewis for Pittman, Godden 
for liable, 'Avo for Rosenbloom, Mould 
for, Borknian, Harter for Mitchell, 
Bauer for Cohen, Newman for Potter, 
Bell for Roth, Flannery for Comfort, 
Hable for Godden, Zelt for Sprinkle, 
Newman for Potter, Gove for Brum
baugh
Touchdown: Brumbaugh, Wierman, 
Pittman, Robertson, Mills, Hable.
Goals from touchdown: Comfort 5, 
Newman 1.
. Referee: Bloom.
Umpire: Morrow (Wash-Jeff.)
Head Linesman: Rittman (Swarthmore).
Time of quarters: 15 minutes.
Bill Says
In the schedule of classes for 
every department there is some range 
of choice as to the time of recita
tion and instructors in charge. Many 
students take advantage of this to 
make up schedules that give them 
free afternoons for part-time employ
ment or appointments. Others ar
range their sections to avoid some in
structors whose temperament they 
cannot appreciate. Crowding of one 
section while another is sparsely at
tended results and later the instruc
tors haggle for several hours over a 
more even distribution of the stu
dents, which is usually accomplished 
by casting lots or by resort to the 
alphabet. This wastes the instruc
tors time and inevitably causes dis
satisfaction among the students trans
ferred.
Since certain new regulations re 
quire that all students must file with 
the- director copies of their schedules, 
why not use these to make assign
ment to sections and instructors defi-. 
nite and final? If, when the directors 
assistant approves the schedule, she 
also notes and records the number 
entering the various classes over
crowding could be prevented and re
assignment by instructors made un
necessary.
Or, a solution involving 'less work 
for the directors office would be the 
marking of the date and exact tim of 
approval on the schedules, so that 
if any redistribution is necessary it 
would be priority and not luck or a 
line that decided the student's as
signment to an inconvenient class. 
Irregular students, of course, should 
be given more consideration, but for 
the others, let the man who knows 
what he wants and files his schedule 
promptly have the right to stay in the 
section lie prefers.
A. JR. MECH.
The course of training for teachers 
of physical education formerly given 
at the University of Pittsburgh will be 
a part of the curriculem at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, in accord
ance with an agreement on the part 
of officials of both schools. A full 
course in theoretical and practical 
studies for women students wishing 
to prepare themselves to teach physi
cal education will be taught at the 
Margaret Morrison College for 
Women.
A Saturday morning course in 
health education and school hygiene 
will be offered at Carnegie Tech 
under the instruction of Dr. Harry B. 
Burns of the Pittsburgh Public 
Schools.
CROSS COUNTRY
SQUAD IS LARGE
The cross-country squad has been 
taking a daily workout for the past 
several days. The preliminary train
ing consisted of covering several laps 
on the track for a few nights, but 
now the men are doing the hills 
and dales of Schenley Park. Every 
endeavor is being made to work the 
lameness out. of sore muscles and to 
get the men in condition for the 
first meet which is only a few weeks 
off.
About sixty men have registered 
with the squad but the average at
tendance is only about half that. All 
men who have signed up should try 
to come out as regularly as possi
ble. Coach Thomas has promised 
all the men who stay out the full 
season, an opportunity to enter a 
big national meet, the last of the 
season. The veterans from last year 
are showing up well and new can
didates begin to show signs of im
provement.
An extensive, schedule is in the 
making but cannot be definitely an
nounced until a later date. How
ever there are some big meets and 
possibly a triangular meet under con
sideration.
There is  still an apportunity for 
three or four Plebes to come out for 
assistant managerships.
ARTS FRESHMAN NOMINATIONS
* SCALP AND BLADE SMOKER *
* The Carnegie Chapter ' of
* Scalp and; Blade, extends a cor* dial invitation to all men from v
* Buffalo, N. Y., to a smoker to *> 
*! be held Friday night.
* It is the earnest desire of the v 
society to promote the interests
!* of Tech in Buffalo and co-oper* ation among the students in ?>
*!? college from that city. !*
*!? All men who claim Buffalo as *
their home town are asked to -> 
*' come ar6und Friday night to the -I* 
I* Science Club room, at 8 o'clock. * 
I* where a good time will be await- * 
I* ing them. *
*
ARCHITECTURAL DEPARTMENT
The architects began work as soon 
as school opened. Two local, prob
lems were done last week by the 
Juniors and Soplfombres which were 
respectively A Students Restaurant 
and A Well In a Courtyard. The 
Seniors osquiro or preliminary 
sketch was held last Friday after
noon. Also a nine-hour sketch prob
lem was taken by the Juniors.
With the return of Mr, Sternfelt 
and the old faculty including Mr. 
Hornbostel, tho architects hope to 
win aft many honors at the Beaux 
Arts 'Society, in New York as they 
did last year.
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER. Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
September 22, 1921. 
President
Malloy 
Koppes 
Wertz 
Resley 
Bigelow 
Vice President
Linsay 
Pershing 
Bishinger 
Diamond 
Secretary
Bennett 
Burkhart 
Weiland 
De Markies 
Treasurer
Thayer
Mervis
Witmer
Senate Representative elected Sep
tember 22, 1921
Philip Thorn 
Further nominations, if any, may 
be made at next meeting.
To be voted on September 29, 
1921, 1:00 p. m.
PITT COURSE AT M. M. C.
M. M. C. ALUMNAE DANCE
SCIENCE BOARD OF
GOVERNORS MEET
The first meeting of the year was 
held in the Alumni office Thursday 
night, September 22.
Mr. M. R. Walton, '09, was elected 
to fill a vacancy on the board. Mr. 
R. S. Wilson, '15, and Mr. J. B. 
Sprague, 09, will represent the Sci
ence Association on the Federation 
Board for the current year.
Plans were inaugurated for the Big 
Annual Science Smoker to be held be
tween Thanksgiving and Christmas 
recess.
The board voted to award two free 
trips to the State game. One for the 
Science Freshman and one for the 
Science Upperclassman selling the 
most stamps for the State trip.
TO EXPAND IN RESEARCH
First Tech dance starts with a 
bang.
Maggie Murphs to the front! Who 
says the girls cant give a success
ful dance? Last Saturday evening 
they proved their ability by the suc
cess of their annual dance given to 
secure an athletic scholarship for 
some., worthy athlete, and we certain
ly have some worthy athletes. The 
M. M. C. Alumnae Association ar
ranged the dance which was held in 
the Union. The dance was supposed 
to be held in the Langley Lab., but 
we must give in to the dictation, or, 
we might say, the mood of the 
orchestra. Eve Hughes Tech Jazz 
Orchestra, furnished the music and 
you can hardly blame them for not 
beihg anxious to play in Langley 
Lab., for they say that the music 
does not sound as loud or as full, 
as in the Union. There were about 
three hundred and firry couple pres
ent and, though the floor was slight
ly crowded, every one was full of 
pep, due to our overwhelming victory 
over Theil that afternoon.
Who minds having their toes 
tramped on, or being bumped into 
once in a while,, if they are -witn 
the right person? We will all agree 
that the Maggie Murphs are the right 
persons, too. Lets boost the M. M, 
C. girls.
The committee in charge of the 
dance was composed of Misses Flor
ence Bechtel, Marion Keifer and 
Helen Stewart. This dance certain
ly shows that the M. M. C. girls 
are with us in the Tech spirit, and 
are doing their best to make our 
athletics boom.
Warings Orchestra
OF TYRONE 
Schenley Hotel j 
Sat., Oct. First |
SUBSCRIPTION $3.00 1 
PER COUPLE
HARRYS
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable
prices. 
3719 Forbes St.Oakland
(Continued From Page One.) 
partment, of Electrical Engineering 
in the College of Engineering, has 
(been relieved of his administrative 
duties and of part of his teaching 
schedule, to permit him to accept 
appointment in the new Division of 
Co operative Research, as Research 
Professor of Electrical Engineering.
The great value of centralizing all 
the research work in a single division 
is shown by the fact that recently a 
large manufacturing firm submitted a 
problem which required for its solu
tion the co-operation of research 
workers in chemistry, domestic sci
ence, personal and marketing. Pitts
burgh industries, especially, are find
ing the co-operative research plan of 
great service. The advantages on the 
side of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology are just as pronounced. Atten
tion is being directed to the most 
pressing practical questions1, positions 
for graduates are being located, and 
scientific lcnoyledge is being extend
ed. In a broad way, the whole fac
ulty co-operates with the Division to 
apply science directly to business 
problems. v
STUDENTS
Desiring to get a reliable fountain 
pen, Eversharp pencil, Tech recog
nition or seal iiin, brief case, school 
ring, personal stationery, etc., should 
call at the 
SINGER PEN AND GIFT SHOP 
In Jenkins Arcade.
After Every Meal'WRIGLEY5
FIVE CENTS
B130The Flavor Lasts!
THE GOODYEAR WELT SHOE REPAIR SYSTEM ALWAYS GIVES 
THE BESTTech Shoe Repair Shop
FORBES, NEAR CRAIG
FREE TRIP TO PENN-STATE
(Continued From, Page One.)
The girl6 are also given an op
portunity to go to the game. The 
allmni are offering two trips to the 
Penn-State gam?, to the girls of the 
institute, who sell the most stamps. 
Stamps may be secured at the 
Alumni Office. This is a good 
chance to see the biggest game of 
the season and) should be a big in
centive for the fair ones to get out 
and induce the boys to buy stamps 
and go on the Xech special, to sup
port the team.
FOR REAL HOME COOKING
---------T ry:------
HOSPITALITY HOUSE 
CAFETERIA 
4246 FIFTH AVENUE 
The Friendly Place.
MANHATTAN 
RESTAURANT 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE
Try Our Special Plate 
Lunch40c 
A Students Restaurant 
For the Students 
Reasonable Prices.
PLEBES 
If your clothes need to be 
cleaned, pressed or mended, call | 
Schenley 389.
Suits called for and delivered. 
Prices Reasonable.
MISS OLEARY 
3933 FORBES
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
Squirrel Hill Tailoring Company
Work Called for and Delivered.
Suits Dry Cleaned, Sponged and Pressed
Alterations Our Specialty.
1921 MURRAY AVENUE ' PHONEHAZEL 1753
Vmiiiintiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimtiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinintiiiiii)miiiW
