TENNIS DANCE 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
UNION(Ehr (Jarl an
BASEBALL 
TECH vs. BETHANY 
TODAY
VOL. XIV. No. 27.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA.APRIL 28. 1920.
FRESHMEN WIN INTERCLASS MEET WHO POINTS
Juniors Runners-Up.
Despite poor weather last Friday no 
small amount of pep was registered
 at the Tech Intre-Class Meet held on 
the Tech Field last Friday afternoon. 
A goodly number of contestants join
ed in the friendly struggle for points 
in spite of the fact that the rain 
started early in the afternoon and 
continued throughout the meet. A 
great deal of. credit is due Mr. W. C. 
McKean, who very ably refered the 
meet and the manager wishes to ex
press his thanks and appreciation for 
the help given by Messrs. Donnell, 
Frazier, . Vierheller, Dunnells, Mar
shall, Miller, Zerge and Dr. Marks, 
all of whom aided greatly in making 
the meet a success.
The Juniors and Freshmen put up 
a stiff fight for first honors, the Fresh
men finally gaining the victory by a 
score of 53 points to the Juniors 44. 
The Sophomores were next in line 
with a score of 23, while the Seniors 
came last having secured but 14 
points. The varsity men were not per
mitted to compete but even so there 
were enough contestants to make the 
rivalry keen for every event excepting 
the pole vaults which could not be 
held on account of lack of time. Each 
contestant is to be congratulated for 
the pep and enthusiasm and for his 
aid in making the affair the success 
that it was. In summing up the points 
gained by each school it is interesting 
to note that Science School totaled 38 
points, Industries 19, and Design 9.
Following is a short summary of the 
events in order:
100 Yard Dash Finals 
FirstI-I. H. Burdick, Soph. Sci
ence. Time11 2-5 seconds. Second 
Donnelly, Plebe Science. Third 
Miller, Freshman Design.
Shot Put 
FirstEichorn, Fresliman Indus
tries. Distance 31 feet 11% inches. 
SecondHenderson, Junior Science. 
ThirdMarshall, Senior Science.
One Mile Run 
FirstBailey, Freshman Industries. 
Time 5 minutes 13 seconds. Second
C. A. Blesch, Sophomore Science. 
ThirdFarrell.
Javelin
FirstMarshall, Science Senior. 
Distance 128.5 feet. SecondCopley, 
Sophomore Science. ThirdAnderson, 
Plebe Science.
120 Yard High Hurdles 
FirstGood, So*ph. Industries. Time 
24 seconds. SecondPeriera, Indus
tries Plebe.
Discus Throw.
FirstKalabisch, Freshman Design. 
Distance 89.4 feet. Second Anderson, 
Science Plebe. ThirdHenderson,
Science Junior.
440 Yard Dash 
FirstNichol, Science Junior. Time 
59 3-5 seconds. SecondKennedy,
Science Plebe. ThirdMcMahlon,
Science Junior.
Two Mile Run 
,.i FirstSturgeon, Science Junior. 
Time 12 minutes 42 3-5 seconds. Sec
ondZimmerman, Science Junior. 
ThirdCollins, Science Plebe.
220 Yard Dash Finals 
FirstNichol, Science Junior. Time 
21/6 seconds. SecondMarshall, Sci, ence Senior. ThirdWilliams, Sci
ence Plebe.
220 Yard High Hurdles 
FirstMertz, Science Freshman. 
Time 34 seconds. SecondGood, In
dustries Junior. ThirdShields, Sci
ence Plebe.
Relay
Plebes first. Time 1 minute 20 sec
onds. Juniors second. Sophomores 
third.
Broad Jump 
FirstBeck, Science Soph. Distance
18 feet 11 inches. SecondGuarnies, 
Design Plebe. ThirdHenderson, Sci
ence Junior.
Half Mile Run 
FirstH. H. Burdick, Science Soph. 
Time 2 minutes 23 3-5 seconds. Second 
Leet, Science Junior. ThirdFar 
rell.
High Jump 
FirstRosengrath, Science Senior. 
Height 5 feet. SecondHenderson, 
Science Junior. ThirdBailey Indus
tries Plebe.
Medals given for first (gold), sec
ond (silver), and third (bronze) 
places. First place earned 5 points, 
second 3 points, and third place 1.
--------------------
The Sophomore Mechanicals have 
arranged a baseball game with the 
Sophomore Commercials to be played 
on Tech Field Monday afternoon. 
May 3 at 2:30. Admission free.
The object of this game is to give 
Manager Byler a chance to get a line 
on players for the Sophomore team.
TECH GRADUATE SPEAKS AT 
CHEMISTS CLUB MEETING
The Chemists Club held a meeting 
Tuesday, April 20. Mr. R. M. Craw
ford, a 1913 C. I. T. graduate of the 
chemical engineering department gave; 
an interesting talk oh T. N. T. pro
cesses, Mr. Crawford, was an active 
man whe nhe was in school and he is 
now superintendent of T. N. T. works 
and be is also one of the few men 
who got their chemical engineering 
degree. He explained in detail how' 
the processes were developed during 
the war time and gave a good amount 
of data that proved of great interest 
to the chemist. He showed how the 
ch Dmical engineer has to control the 
m(ljn in the laboratory to tlv> men who 
sw'eep the floor. In other words he 
proved that everything just had to be 
done in a definite manner and done 
at: a definite time. He then gave data 
on the results by not following out 
siich a schedule.
The field for the chemical engineer 
is very wide now, for the United 
'itat.es is in a position to get many 
markets and at the same time has 
many sources for getting raw mate
rials.
The chemists intend to hold a ban
quet soon and they intend to pull ofT' 
one that is worth while. On May 18, 
the chemists Clubs will give a dance 
at the Union.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY BEST E THE YEAR
The Industries Assembly of last 
Wednesday was the best ever. The 
program opened with several jaxx se
lections by the Assembly orchestra. 
Services, The Cremation of Sam Ma
gee, was then read by Jack Willard 
as only Willard of the Arts can do it.
Shorty Miller gave an outline of the 
Inter-Class Track Meet to be held on 
Friday the 24th and President Oakley 
of the Assembly made a plea for more 
entries from the Industries Division.
Coach Hazel next took the floor and the money too, as the boys know. 
Hazel plans for track were presented 
and his scheme of giving cups to va
rious members of the squad who stuck 
by for the season was strongly en
dorsed, for when the hat was passed 
to help provide those cups $38.70 Was 
counted. Also, several individual cups 
were given by various faculty mem
bers and other persons.
Next came the surprise of the day, 
Dean Connelley himself. Smiling as 
ever and amid a round of applause 
and cheers he arose to say a few 
words to his boys.
Home again were his opening 
words and he certainly meant it. 
Briefly he gave a description of the 
work of the Department of Labor and 
Industry of the State of Pennsyl
vania of which he is head and prom
ised more detaled information at an 
early moment. He also pointed out 
a few factors in the railroad situation.
And is he off athletics yet? Ask 
him about it. He told us something 
about the first of the great Penn 
Relays and expressed his desire to 
attend the one in Philadelphia this 
weekwould that we all could be with 
him.
JR. MECHnOLlfSMOKER
Last Saturday evening the junior 
mechanicals bid down a smoke screen 
at the Woodlawn Club. After hav
ing successfully shut out the enemy 
Bill Pfouts entertained with some 
skillful sleight of speech tricks. The 
fellows then gathered around Kenny 
while he paderewskied on the ivories 
abbetted by Paul on the saxophone 
and Shorty on the Victrola. The 
ensuing harmony made the San Carlo 
Opera Co. look like a negro revival. 
Marshall Gare and General Brandin 
introduced a novel cafeteria stunt 
which WAS some stunt. The crowd 
then got down to business and- dis
cussed Techs future, its failings and 
remedies. About one oclock the party 
broke up, a party which tended to 
more firmly bind together a group of 
fellows who know the true meaning 
of esprit de corps.
COACH 8TFFFEN SIGNS
A few of the fortunate ones were 
surprised to see Football Coach Steffan about the campus on Monday 
afternoon. Curiosity caused most to 
wonder why but it would not be hard 
to guess.
The representatives of the new ath
letic Council were far-seeing in hav
ing Coach Steffen sign a new contract 
for the extent of three years. This 
should brighten prospects for the en
suing football seasons. It is not yet 
known whether or not the new con
tract provides a larger salary than 
heretofore.
Committees Working Hard 
To Make Campus Week
A Decided Success
Students Urged to Make Suggestions.
A combined meeting of all the 
Campus Week committees was held 
in the Union last Thursday and final 
plans and details for a continuous 
three-day, good time were discussed. 
The General Committee is bending 
every energy to make this innovation 
at Tech a decided success so that it 
will become a regular annual feature 
on the campus, and it is up to the 
special committees to lend all the aid 
possible. The Publicity Agent is plan
ning to run an extensive advertising 
campaign which will take in the whole 
city of Pittsburgh; and with all of 
Pittsburgh looking on, it behooves 
every Tech student to get behind the 
movement to help put it across. The 
sub-committees and special details 
must work fast so that everything 
will run off with a s^nap according to 
schedule. And the students are 
urged to send in suggestions, no mat
ter how small, t ohelp along the com
mittees. They are racking their 
brains for novelties and many mys
teriously interesting ones are being 
planned already. But more sugges
tions are welcome and wanted.
These are especially desirable for 
the great Tech Circus. Beano, the 
Snake-Eater, is gouging himself with 
vicious reptiles in anticipation of that 
eventful day; the celebrated cigarette 
fiend of the world is consuming the 
wicked weed at a great rate; the world 
renowned giants and dwarfs are on 
their wa yto Pittsburgh; the Wild 
Man from Borneo grows wilder every
BIG HIT IN CONCERT
The Carnegie band gave a concert 
Monday, April 19, at the New' Ken
sington High School. The attendance 
was very good and the affair was a 
success from every viewpoint, but the 
experience that the men had before, 
they reached their destination is some
thing that will make them think first 
before they leap.
At East Liberty they were supposed 
to embark on a special train. One of 
the fellows seemed to have had an 
affinity for a certain car and he point
ed out that car as their supposed one. 
Everybody offered no objections and 
they therefore settled down. When 
they- reached Homewood they were 
notified that they were not only in the 
wrong car but on the wrong train. 
By chance they happened to get a 
train going back to East Liberty, but 
not all the men were accommodated, 
for the men carrying the base horns 
were unable to get in there and they 
were therefore left behind. At East 
Liberty the men began to search for 
the fellow who misled them and they 
picked on one that made a similar 
mistake.
After waiting an half an hour and 
in the meantime advertising them
selves by giving yells, playing popular 
hits, they landed on the right train. 
At 8 p. m. they all got there just in 
time.
The concert was started out by 
playing a march, Couer de aliene, 
which surprised the audience. Then 
an overture and three popular hits 
were played after which Arthur G. 
Kendrick gave a clarinet solo and he 
made the biggest hit of the evening. 
The audience also made them repeat, 
Dardanella three time and then the 
concert ended by playing selections 
from Greenwich Village Follies.
The men then had to hurry to catch 
their train and fortunately they just 
happened to get at the station in time, 
but before they got on tile train they 
first made sure that they were in the 
right place. The audience enjoyed the 
affair and so did the men going 
through their thrilling experience.
day. And so will the Circus Com
mittee unless the students come, 
across with some good suggestions 
for the Ring Master and the side show 
manager. If you can pull some kind 
of a stunt, no matter how insignificant 
it may seem to you, drop a short note 
in the school post office addressed to 
the Tech Circus. If your room-mate 
91- side-kick has some talent that he 
si too bashful to tell about, hand his 
name in; the Committee will cure him 
of his bashfulness. Or if you havent 
anything but a good idea for a circus 
ring or side-show, why hand that in 
and help the committee make a howl
ing success of this great Barnum & 
Bailey rival. Suggestions and coop
eration from the whole student body 
that is what is needed. Do your 
part!
The fraternities are especially urged 
to get in their entries for the great 
Motor Sweepstakes which will be held 
on Friday morning of Campus Week. 
The start of this stupendous Derby 
will be in front of the Margaret Mor
rison School at $9.30, and it will open 
the festivities of the day with the 
most blood-curdling event of the 
Week. All of the fraternity rooters 
will be there and plenty of hair-rais
ing excitement will send thrills up the 
spines of the lucky spectators. The 
rules governing the race have been 
published in a previous edition, and 
fraternities must get their entries in 
to II. N. Crosby of Design School, im
mediately.
EAST TEAM PROMISED FOR 
TECH TENNIS THIS YEAR
Under the tutelage of Col. Brooks, 
the white-clad warriors of Capt. 
Slo'cksnigei*, arc Vapidly swinging into 
mid-season form. It will take some 
pretty keen judging to pick a squad 
to represent Tech in the coming tour
naments, as the squad is large and 
the candidates are all there when it 
comes to the handling of a racket. 
Last years squad is represented by: 
Capt. Stockslager, Ex-Capt. Jack 
Beatty, Ilarkness, Copley and Gawthrop; the new men on the squad are: 
Tuts Davis, Iliil Marshall, Harry 
Wade, Simpson and Bob Schmertz. 
The schedule includes Syracuse, Mich
igan, Wash-Jcir, West Virginia, Penn 
State and one other big surprise.
In order to successfully carry out 
this program, it is necessary to have 
the support of the student body in 
attending a series of informal sub
scription dances. The first of these 
dances is to be held in the Union on 
Friday, April 30with several special 
attractions, including a monologist,
Maggia, a new kind of------------well
come up and see for yourselves.
This will be your first opportunity 
to show your appreciation of the new 
athletic policy, so lets all get to
gether and work for Tech and the 
Tennis Team.----------0----------
ON WAY TWENTY-EIGHTH
On Friday night, May 28, the C. I. 
T. Concert and Military Band will 
hold its annual Home Concert and 
Dance. The Concert which is to be of 
a very different character than other 
years is to be given in the Little The
atre of the Division of Arts. The 
dance will be held in the Exhibition 
Hall of the some building. This is 
something you do not want to miss. 
Any one who has heard the band late
ly will tell you it has been improving 
every week of its existence and that 
when the final performance is pro
duced it will be something worth
while. Watch the Tartan for further 
information.
iiiuniiiHNiiiiHiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiinniiiiiuiniiniiRiiiiiifliiii
SPRING FERVOR NUMBERpppet
I rOUT TUESDAY
TRACK PROSPECTS BRIGHT 
REPRESENTATIVES NAMED
With the warm weather the spirit 
has been rising on the track team and 
the men are rounding into shape. The 
inter-class meet in which no 'varsity 
men were allowed to compete brought 
forth little new material. Nichol and 
Burdick were two of the shining 
lights, and it is hoped will be out with 
the squad. All middle distance men 
are trying out for the relays and some 
fifty others are training hard each 
night. This year our team will be 
represented somewhat ,as follows: 
Springs Russell, Nelly, Hawkins, 
Green; middle distanceCaptain 
Schmich, Hiller, Nutting, Stone, 
Brumbaugh, Code; DistanceC. D. 
Miller, Greenlaw. .Trewson, Cavett, 
Curtis, Cooper, McDonald, Gossard; 
hurdlesArnold, Good; Broad jumps 
Bremmer, Schlemph, Hammann; 
high jumpsHammann, Fentchy; 
pole vaultHaniman, Stults; weights 
Schlemph, Miller, Henderson. These 
are nearly more good men in the 
squad who may develop into stars 
along various linse, but it is too early 
to prophecy.
The schedule for 1920Penn Re
lays, May .1; \Y. Va. University, May 
8; Geneva, May 15; W. Va. Wesleyan, 
May 22; Allepheny, May 29; Dennison, June 5.
WELL-KNOWN GRADUATE DIES IN CLAREMONT, N..
George, W. Kotter ()!) died at his 
home in Claremont, N. II., April 22,
1.920. Mr. Ketter entered Tech in 
September, 1900, taking the Civil En
gineering course which lie completed 
in three years, receiving his 1!. S. 
in June, 1909. While in school In1 was 
secretary of his class, chairman Class 
Day Committee, chairman Club-Room 
Committee, vice-president and later 
president of the Civil Engineering So
ciety, a member of the Student Gov
ernment Committee, of the Philhar
monic Literary Society am) of the Pioneer Tech Club.
Since leaving school he has worked 
for the Latrobe Electrical Steel Co., 
Alabama Steel Co., Appalachian Pow
er Co., and at the time of his death for 
the lOlectrical Furnace Construction Co., Claremont, N. II.
INTER-NIGHT SCHOOLS DANCE PROMISES BIG EVENING
Plans are nearing completion for 
the 4th Annual Ijiter-Night Schools
l.htnce to he hold Friday evening, May
7, in the foyer of the Arts Division.
The committee on arrangement, 
composed of representatives from the 
three schools: Science, Design and In
dustries, mot and elected Mr, (). 13. 
Boo general chairman and Mr. I. M. 
Highberger secretary and treasurer. 
To attain the best and most direct re
sults, the chairman appointed these 
representatives to servo on sub-com
mittees as follow.1;:
On the entertainment committee 
Miss Austin, Miss Kline, Mr. Weber, 
Fir. Schnrer and Miss Bruce; Mr. 
Mix nor will arrange for the music; 
Mr. Dermit, Mr. Ribinson, Mr. Gilles
pie and Miss Bruce will comprise the 
publicity and social committees; Miss 
Kline, Mr. Weber and Mr. Schnrer 
will be in charge of decorations; Mr. 
Weber was appointed to make ar
rangements with several design stu
dents for large posters announcing this fiance.
It being understood that this affair 
is for the evening classes only, all 
night 'students are urged to attend. 
A fine time, in the way of good eats 
and goorl music, is positively assured 
all who.put in an appearance. Prepa
rations are under way to accommo
date over 400 persons.
Following the practice of former 
yr;u's, there will be no admission to 
this dance. Due to the fruitful ef
forts of the representatives on the 
Student Activity Board, sufficient 
funds were secured to defray all ex
penses.
From all present indications, this 
closing social event of the Night 
Schools promises to be a brilliant 
success.
CLUB TO HOLD 
FIRST DANCE MAY 1
The Vila Club, the newly formed 
organization of the automobile con
struction students, will hold their first 
dance Saturday, May I, in the Union, 
This afFuir promises to be full of 
pr p a i-I a good attendance in expect
ed. Tickets are on sale by Failing, 
Del Rosario, Frayer or any other au
tomobile man.
TENNIS TEAM HAS
University of California Here on June 11.
Col. Brooks proteges of the net 
game will have to step lively this year 
as warranted by the schedule. Under 
his tutelage the team is practicing 
daily and is hard at-work. The suc
cess of the schedule will indicate the 
perfection of our net men which it is 
believed will be entirely favorable;
The tournament announced last 
week should bring out additional ma
terial. A silver cup will be olfered 
to the winner of each tournament. 
There should be no hesitation of the 
part of those of ability to come out 
for the tournament.
The tennis schedule is the most, 
ambitious ever attempted by a Tech 
team and should place Tech high up 
in the collegiate tennis circles. Th|e 
high spot of the schedule is the match 
with the University of California on 
June 11. There will also be a baseball 
team with them and both games 
should be high spirited. Much is ex
pected from the results of tennis 
season which may open here Saturday 
with Bethany.
The schedule of matches follows: 
Carnegie Tech Tennis Schedule1920
May IBethany at Pittsburgh.
May 8W. Va. at Morgantown.
May 14W. it .1. at Pittsburgh.
May 15Penn State at State College.
May 21- W. Va. at Pittsburgh.
May 22Grove City at Pittsburgh.
May 27 Ivllegheny at Pittsburgh.
May 29- Syracuse at Pittsburgh.
June 4lUieknoll at Pittsburgh.
Juno 9- W. & J. at Washington, Pa.
Commencement. Day at VV. & .1.
June 11 University of California at Pittsburgh.
Juno 14- -Allegheny at. Meadville, 
Pa. Commencement Day there.
June 15- Grove City at Grove City. 
Commence Day there.
POTOMAC CLUB CHOSEN 
E OF NEW SOCIETY
'Ilie Maryland and District of Co
lumbia men held n very active and 
interesting meeting Tuesday, April 20. 
The attendance was exceptionally good and every man who attended the 
meeting did not regret it. A consti
tution, drawn up by Mr. Griob, win 
adopted. After holding an election 
of officers the following men were 
elected for next year's term: A. VV. 
Griob, president; John It. Bean, vicepresident; II. Nelmnn, secretary and 
Swindel, treasurer. It. was passed 
that the club shall be hereafter known 
as the Potomac Club".
A commuted is now arranging af
fairs for a Imnquol; which will soon 
be hold. 'Ihls means that every man 
from that territory must be there and 
enjoy the occasion. It will be time 
well spent for you will not only meet 
the men from your home town but 
at the same time enjoy an aflair which 
the committee promises to make ox- ceptianlly good.
A committee will also communicate 
with the high schools and inform them 
of the advantages of Tech school. 
Plans are also being made to organ
ize a Tech Clan of all the previous 
graduates in that locality.
The club will hold meetings every 
month, so lots see the men who have 
not attended the previous meetings 
come out, for in order to do active 
work the cooperation of every man 
is needed.
TRACK TEAM POINTING FOR RELAYS
The colrl weather has hampered 
Coach Hazels proteges very much 
this spring but with the warmer 
weather they are doing hard outside 
work. The Penn Relays are the big 
thing just now and every middle distaince runner is trying for places on 
the team. Capt. Schmidts leg is well 
healed now, and he is coming along 
rapidly. In the trials he has been 
running a close second to Hiller. The 
latter is having difficulty with schol
astics and is trying hard to get his 
studying up. The other best prospects 
are: Russell, a sprinter of ability and 
a varsity man from last year; Brum
baugh, a big Science Plebe who play
ed on the Plebe football team last 
fall; Kelly, a Science Soph, who is a 
sprinter and has shown up well in the 
indoor meets; Cooper, a former W.
& J, student; Stone, Science Senior 
of last years relay team; and Nutting 
a Science Plebe who ran for Wilkinsburg High last year.
The team will probably be picked 
today and leaves tomorrow night for Philadelphia,
D
KAPPA SIGMA RHO
The fraternity takes great pleasure 
in announcing the pledging of 11. I). 
Junkins 20, and John M. Jones 2.'.
10471369

---------------------------------------------------

AKRON
AMSTERDAM
CLEVELAND
MILWAUKEE
READING
PITTSBURGH 
(3 stores) 
710CIIEST.ER 
fCHENEOTADY 
SYRACUSE
fCRANTON 
TRENTON 
TERRA HAUTE 
WILKES-BARRE 
YOUNGSTOWN
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
TRADEMARK
A
MERICA is fast becoming a pipe smoking country. Every 
- year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satis
faction, and the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection, 
more and more men are smoking W D C Pipes. This is not 
chance. It is because W D C Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value. 
Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special process make 
\V D C Pipes break in sweet and mellow. Coupled with that is a 
self-governed body of pipe makers whose sole object is to fashion 
pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been 
accomplished. Ask any good dealer.
- (Haran
PAGE TWO.
Publuihed every week by undergraduates of the Curnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entttred in the postofflce of Pittsburgh an second-class mutter.
SUBSCRIPTION KATES 
Thia year $1.00 fjc the copy Canuda, $1,75
Editor-in-Chief...................................................................................LeRoy E/ Emerich
Phone Hazel 9422
BuiineoB Manager ..............................................................................T, W. AllsworthPitone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Puquin
Annuitant Managing Editor 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Luke 
New Editor 
J. T. Ames 
Associate New Editor 
W. D. Hull 
Athletic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athlctic Editor 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editor
M. M. D................Margaret J. Griffon
Science..................J, K, VV. Muculpme
Industries..................... Ralph Shanno
Arts.................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistant
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer 
I, M, Zebest J. T. SHtman
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillers 
R. F. Lunger 
Win, Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desii'ed.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4 :.'J0 P. M. Fridays.
BETTER TIMES
Already the lecent adoption of the new athletic program is beginning 
to show good results. The baseball team's victory over West Virginia in the 
season's opening game isthe bos t indication that can be offered. It cannot 
be said that the victory was expected; so it is obvious that the team fought 
and won.Tomorrow night the relay team will leave for Philadelphia to take part 
in the Penn Relays. It is reasonable to believe that with the old "pep" com
ing back, they will put up as hard a fight as any team representing Tech, if 
not harder. In a few weeks the tennis season will open. With the strength 
of the competitors for berths on the team and the schedule we are assured 
of an interesting and successful season.
Is there a reason for citing all these facts? Do they not show the return 
of the pep of the old days? An increased interest is being shown in 
athletics and a feeling that it is worth while is also being manifested.
Undoubtedly, conditions could be still greatly improved if our greatest 
need was satisfied ii new gymnasium. It is n wise old adage that Rome 
was not built in a day", it would be inhuman not to recognize the teaching 
of this adage but it must also be realized that our recreational facilities are 
not very adequate. The new tennis courts will improve conditions but a 
larger need is thill; of the gym as well ns a Carnegie Union, an organization 
similar to that of the University of Michigan which is operating very suc
cessfully.
To extend our stride wo need the assurance of the cooperation of the 
faculty. To explain further, to give the athlete a chance: if necessary, .he 
athlete should be able to get re-exams before scheduled time and as much 
lee-way in other directions as possible. We are assured that this is to he 
done but as yet have no indication of if.
PLACING OUR SUPPORT
Judging from indications, the tennis season is to la* the host in he 
history of Tech. Undoubtedly, our support is necessary hero as well as in 
any branch of activities and it is not hard to see the impossibility of paid 
admissions to witness the contests. Mow then is the team supported, do you 
ask? The management has announced u series of dances in the Union, the 
proceeds going for the equipment of the tennis tenm.
In this day many dances are held by the different organizations. It 
seems to be our only form of amusement and recreation really exercise and 
hard work these days. By "placing our support we can help along a good 
cause and consequently promote (he success of the coming tennis season.-------HCt  
The students, necessarily male, of many institutions are pledged to wear 
overalls and Jumper for the remainder of the school year in order to keep 
down the II. 0. of 1. What is the sentiment at Tech?----..
Watchful Waiting for the promised adjustment of Beanery prices 
is our newly adopted pastime.
Wondering why we are having Campus Week? Take a look at tin* 
campus but dont disturb any blades of grass.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS 
TECHNICAL TEACHERS WANTED IN SYRIA
A letter has been received from the corresponding secretary in New York 
of the Syrian Protestant College at Bierut, Syria, stating that the college 
is in great need of several young men of high principles who wish to devote 
the next three years to teaching engineering subjects to some of the men 
wh oare to take a leading part in the reconstruction of the Near East. This 
is an interesting and unusual opportunity, and deserves, I think, consideration 
by properly qualified seniors. Full details can be secured from Mr. Tilbrook 
in the Placement Bureau. DEAN TARBELL.
STUDENT CALENDAR.
April 29. Interfraternity Dance.................................................. Schenley Hotel
April 30. Tennis Dance ....................................................................................Union
May 1. Vita Club Dance (Industries) .............................................................Union
May 7. Tennis Dance .........................................................................................Union
May 7. All Night Schools Dance.......................................................Arts Building
May 8. Science Chemists Dance.......................................................................Union
May 8. M. M. D. Athletic Ass'n Dance...............Recreation Hall, M. M. D.
May 22. Tennis Dance ...................................................................................... Union
May 29. Tennis Dance........................................................................................Union
INTER-FRATERNITY AUTO RACE PROMISES EXCITEMENT
According to the latest dope, the 
inter-fraternity motor race will he 
held the morning of Friday, May I I. 
The program for the morning is as 
follows:
9:80 a. m.Inter-Fraternity auto 
race, finishing in front of Design 
School (the complete course will be 
announced in next weeks Ttartan).
10:30 a. m.Tree planting in front 
of Design School.
11 a. m.Field Day on the Tech 
Athletic Field.
The Field Day will include many 
interesting events such as obstacle
races, three-legged races, tilting con
tests and an inter-class tug of war.
In the afternoon, between the Senior-Faculty ball game and the Varsity 
game, a greased pig will he let loose 
on the athletic field and the man who 
carries the pig to the judges stand 
will keep the pig,
Fraternities are reminded that their 
entries in the auto race must be in 
to the committee by the. end of this week.
D--------
THE TARTAN.
LAID TEAM WALLOPS
MOUNTAINEERS IN OPENER
DROPS SECOND GAME 6-2
Surprising Tech students and inci
dentally West Virginia University as 
well, the baseball team purveyed to 
Morgantown and walloped the Moun
taineers last Friday to the time of 
4-1, Skinny McCau on the mound 
was. the shining light and with his two 
base hit practically won his own game. 
V/est Virginia was slow on basesand 
as a matter of fact completely sur
prised as it were. The new infield 
worked harmoniously. It was Tech's 
opener and a good one. The score: 
Carnegie Tech
AB.R.II.P.A.
1152
R, Doherty, J ............ 30060
Durkin, 1 ................., 40111
0120o0023
Dveleskis, 3 ............... 21001
. 41J61
McCau, p .................41220
Totals ....................3046 279
West VirginiaUniversity
AB.R.H.P.A.
Turkovich, 3 ........... 30121
4012o
Dawson, m..............., 40111
Nefflen, 1 .................40110
Dorsey, r .................40000
Neale, r ...................00tj00
Maderia, J..................412130
0171
Woods, p .................. 40205
Armstrong, 2........... 40004
Totals .......................36 1 9 26*15
*J. Doherty out, hit by batted ball. 
Errors, W. V. U. 2, Tech 3. Two base 
hitsMcCau, Martin. Sacrifice hits 
R. Doherty, Dvileskis, J. Doherty. 
Stolen baseMartin. Double play 
Lynn to J. Doherty. Hit by pitched 
ballBy Woods, Dvileskis. Passed 
balllMartin 1, Irwin 2. Umpire 
Johnson. Time1:40.
SECOND GAME 
Morgantown, W. Va., April 24. 
West Virginia University called Biz" 
Dawson from center field to the 
mound today and the Clarksburg boy 
turned back Hans Wagners Carnegie 
Tech team 6 to 2.
Lemley, varsity hurler was ill and 
could not take his regular turn on 
the slab. West Virginia scored in the 
first inning when Turkovich walked 
and went to third when Dveliskis 
threw away Lytles sacrifice and 
scored on Dawsons out. Bernie Maderia hit the first ball pitched in the 
second inning, far on the bank in left 
field for a home run, the first of the 
local season. In the third again West 
Virginia scorce twice when Lytle beat 
out his roller and stole second. Daw
son singled and Dorsey came through 
with a three base drive down the 
right field foul line.
Tech scored her first run in the 
fourth on Lynn's double and Dvelis
kis single. West Virginia again scored 
in the fifth when Lytle beat out an
other roller. Dawson singled, nefflen 
sacrificed and Dorsey again hit safe
ly, scoring both Lytl and Dawson.
Techs final run came in the ninth 
when Dorsey muffed Johnstons easy 
fly, the latter going to second and 
scoring on Dveliskis hlngle. Dorsey 
and Nefflen monopolized hitting hon
ors except for Mnderias circuit smash. 
Dawson pitched a steady game for 
West Virginia and the showing of 
Techs team in both games was sur
prising to local fans who expected 
easy sailing.West Virginia
Turkovich, 3
AH. 
.........4
Ii.
1
II.
1
P.
1
A.
2
, , , . 42362
Dawson, p ..................42213
Nofllen, 1 ...........0040
Dorsey, r .................... 40310
Maderia, 1 ................ 411100
Neale, m............., 40110
Martin, c...................... 40180
Armstrong, 2 ............40012
is scarcely ever absent from the stage 
and many of his speeches which are 
difficult to understand on a first read
ing are almost impossible to under
stand on a first hearing. Carl Reid 
struggled manfully with the part and 
gave a dignified if not very subtle 
performance.. Mary Lissfelts Mi
randa was a sincere and charming 
piece of work. She managed to sug
gest very cleverly the island-bred girl 
opening her eyes for the first time 
on a brave, new world. Another 
excellent piece of work was Ellen 
Crowes as the elusive Ariel.
The complex character of Caliban 
was entrusted to Lawrence Paquin. 
It was capably played with more in
sistence on the brutish side of the 
monster than on the strange sensi
tiveness to beauty with which Shake
speare has so curiously endowed him.
B. 1. Dickinson made a gallant Ferdiand, Alexander Buchanan a stately 
King of Naples, Lawrence Chrow and 
Russell Collins did what they could 
with those tiresome villains Antonio 
and Sebastian nad Arleigh William
son gave a wholly admirable perform
ance as that kindly old bore Gonzalo,
The low comedy (and it is quite 
low), in the hands of John Willard 
and Owen White was much to the 
taste of the audience.
The performance, o nthe whole, was 
an extremely interesting experiment 
in the production of an unfamiliar 
play of great difficulty on which Mr. 
Payne and Mr. Wallace are much to 
be congratulated.----------D----------
__M. M. D. SOPH MINSTREL
The Sophomore Class of M. M. D. 
is having a minstrel next Saturday 
night that is going to be rare. It 
will be held in the gym and after
wards there will be a dance in the 
Rec. Hall. The admission for the 
whole evening will be fifty cents 
apiece. The setting for the Little 
Minstrel is in the South Sea Isles, so 
you can imagine how interesting it 
will be. However, it wont pay to 
leave to much to your imagination 
come and see for yourself the wonder
ful sights. Almost the whole Sopho
more class will perform. If you want 
to see a good clog dance, if you want 
a good laugh, if you want to hear a 
hard guy sing Oh", or see the Gold 
Dust Twins kick up their heelsbe 
there 1 Everybody in Tech will be 
there that night  follow the crowd 
and come!---------O----------THE AVO CLUB
The persons who were at the Avo 
Barn Dance last spring will be pleased 
to hear that there will be another one 
held the latter part of May. No defi
nite date has been set, but it will be 
held on some Friday night. It will 
not be at the same place as last year, 
because of the increased number of 
students. Last it may be a good idea 
to speak to her about it before some 
one else does.----------O----------SCHEDULE FOR TRACK EVENTS
May 1Penn Relays at Philadel
phia.
May 8W. Virginia University at 
M organtown.
May 15Geneva College (Interscholastic Meet) at Schenley Oval.
May 22W. Virginia Wesleyan at Tech Field.
May 29  Allegheny College at 
Meadville.
Totals.....................35612279
Carnegie Tech
AB.R.H.P.A.
J. Doherty, 2 ............. 50102
R. Doherty, 1 ........... 39981
Oakley, 1 .................10010
Durkin, 1...................40011
Godden, r................... 40011
Johnstone, m............. 41110
41104
Dveliskis, 3...............40201
Irwin, c ..................... 301120
90002
Weiss, p .......................20100

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1920.
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LE88ON8 CLASS AND PRIVATI
JACQUES' I A N C I M Q ACADEMY 
ORAIQ AND FORBES SELL PHONE
Totals .......................35 2 7 24 11
ErrorsLytle 2, Dorsey, Martin, R. 
Doherty, Dveliskis. Stolen bases 
Turkovich, Lytle, Johnstone. Sacri
fice hitsLytle, Nefflen 2. Two-base 
hitsIrwin, Lynn, Martin, Neale. 
Three-base hitsDorsey. Home run 
Maderia. Hits apportionedOff
Moon, 9 in 5 innings; off Weiss, 3 in 3 
innigs. Base on ballsOff Dawson 1, 
off Moon 1. Struck outBy Dawson 
7, by Moon ii, by Weiss 5. Umpire 
Johnson. Time 2:00.---------D----------S11A KESPEARIAN PRODUCTION
The Tempest which was chosen this 
year as the annual tribute to the 
memory of Shakespeare, is one of the 
most subtle and most poetic of the 
plays of the groat dramatist. At the 
same time if is, from the point of 
view of stage presentation, one of the 
most difficult and lea^;. dramatic. In 
attempting it at all. the School of 
Drama set itself the hardest of tasks, 
and if the attempt was not as suc
cessful as some of the previous per
formances of Shakespearian drama, 
the fault lay, perhaps, as much with 
the play as with the players.
The chief burden of the acting falls 
upon the character of Prosper. He
Wrate?- \
Smart Spring Suits 
for Young Men 
are Ready!
The new models are particularly handsome and 
tylishboth single a ad double breasted !
Serviceable, all-wool fabrics, and patterns which 
are unusually nobby!
Our chain-^tore syiftem affords saving of from $5 
to $10. Satisfaction gu aranteed.
30 35 *40
Ultra-Class Suits, $45 and $50
302-304 State Street
E W VO R K
FINE J?I.PES
(Eh demuth
WORLDS LARGESTa co., 
MAKER IS OF

---------------------------------------------------

jfefe GvertfiinJr te Drafting Rgom.
THE TARTAN.PAGE THRE
Last Friday Mr. Benner, associate 
to Mr. Shipp of the Pittsburgh Y. M.
C. A. was a guest of theTeknon Club. 
He told the club that the Pittsburgh 
Y. is interested in Tech and is carry
ing on a thorough investigation into 
the conditions here. Soon a report 
will be made as to the best plan and 
work will be started along the line in
dicated in the report. With close co
operation between the Y. M. C. A. of
ficials and the Teknon Club, it is ex
pected that there will be a branch 
here very soon and in the fall it will 
be under full swing. The Y\ M. C. A. 
committee, with C. B. Schmidt as 
chairman, is working hard to this end.
THE NEW DAVIS
The twin muses of the operat and 
of Terpsichore will be exploited as 
headline attractions in a program of 
nine Keith vaudeville acts at the Davis 
Hheatre for one week, Degimmig Mon
day afternoon, May 3. Guide Ciccolini, the noted Italion tenor from the 
Chicago Grand Opera, and the Mosconi Brothers, with their dune in;'; fam
ily in an enlivening revue, are to 
share the bills stellar position. He 
will be heard in repertoire which \.ill 
include the principal tenor numbers 
from the operas in which his most 
brilliant successes have been achieved 
These will include, the Celeste Aida, 
from Verdis Aida; La Donnee 
Mobile from Rigoletto; the Flower 
Song from Carmen; the big tenor 
Aria from The Masked Ball; C-ielo 
e Mar, from La Giaconda; the 
Elegie by Massenc; the Romance" 
by Debussy; Shuberts Serenade, 
and a group of Neapolitan songs.
Mosconi Brothers, who are widely 
known as the leading eccentric danc
ers in vaudeville, have gathered into 
their company this.season father, sis-er and two additional brothers.
Dorothy Shoemaker, who was a 
leading woman at the Union Hill 
Stock Company, from which such 
noted stars as Jane Cowl and various 
other prominent players have gradu
ated, will appear for the first time 
here. in Blanch Blochs one-act play, 
entitled Life. She will be aided 
by a cast of six. Life is a novelty 
playlet which, by an adroit drama
turgic device, shifts from Avhat appa
rently is a tragedy to a comedy. Joe 
Laurie, Jr., known as the pint size 
author-comedian, will present his 
new monologue, entitled What I 
Care. Mr. Laurie is a diminutive 
fun-maker, who formerly appeared 
Aleen Bronson under the team name 
of Laurie and Bronson. In a single 
turn he has out-comicked the comics. 
Harry Kranz and Bobby La Salle are 
to give Jazz tunes and steps. The 
Melnotte Duo will entertain with A 
Night Out, in which comedy is to 
be blended with some physical exercies. Copeland and Carter, in char
acter and dialect, will discuss themes 
of topical interest. Gymnastic od
dities will be given by Myers and 
Dale. News motion pictures com
plete the list of attractions.
FOR YOUNG MEN AND MEN WHO STAY YOUNG
Xi Sigma Upsilon Fraternity held 
its Annual Formal Dance on Thursday 
evening, April 22nd, at the Twentieth 
Century Club. The dance was a de
cided success and was attended by the 
active chapter, alumni, and represen
tatives: Edward F. Hirsch for Theta 
Xi, Neal J. Campbell for Sigma Nu, 
Fred. I. Smith for Delta Upsilon, 
Arthur L. Elliott for Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Barry Diercks for Sigma 
Rho, LeRoy E. Emerich for Woodlawn Club, and Ray G. Bergstrom for 
Tau Gamma Phi. Mrs. John P. Davis 
of Pittsburgh chaperoned.
Dancing lasted until one oclock, 
supper being served at eleven at which 
time Mrs. Davis presented the guests 
with the favors, engraved beauty 
pins.The fraternity takes great pleasure
i nannouncing the pledging of Paul
C. Moyer, Science freshman, of Boyertown, and Harry C. ICreisle, Design 
freshman, of Tell City, Indiana.
ANNOUNCEMENT
Any fraternity, club, or other stu
dent organization wishing to book 
baseball games is asked to communi
cate with Ralph Shanno, manager of 
Kappa Sigma Rho team.and workmanship are of major 
1 J * importance. All-wool fabric 
Jj|||8|l|| will keep you warm, and patterns 
may be pleasing, but converting rJaln 7ty tj-,e fakric jnto a garment that has 
better style, fit and finish, is craftsmanship 
above the ordinary and identifies Society Brand.
WITH THE VARIED GIUDIIS OF CLOTHING FLOODING 
THE MARKET, LOOK FOR THE LABEL AS YOUR GUIDE 
ALPHKI) DHCKHR A COHN, MnkorJ 80CIKTY IIKAND CL0TIIK8, Limited, fur Cuaiiln
Chicago New York Montrcnl
If your fountain pen is in need of repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, dance programs, favors, special felt goods or Tech recognition pins, call at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in Jenkins Arcade.Adv.THE GRAND
Rapid-fire action and keenly amus
ing comedy are the principal proper
ties of Wallace Reids latest photo
play, Excuse My Dust, which will 
topline the program at Pittsburghs 
New Million Dollar Grand all next 
week, starting Monday morning. It 
is based on Bryon Morgans magazine 
story, The Bear Trap, a fast-mov
ing tale of the exploitations of a 
speeding automobile. Its characters 
are the same as those in The Roar
ing Road one of Reids previous of
ferings, but its incidents, including a 
jazzy automobile race from Los An
geles to San Francisco, are among 
the most thrilling that have ever been 
put into pictures.
Excuse My Dust is a story of 
automobiling in the West, and is the 
third in a series of three dashing mo
tor car romances. Reid has the role 
of the young manager of the Darco 
automobile agency in San Francisco. 
He is also son-in-law of the president 
of the concern, J. D. Ward, familarly 
known as The Bear. Ward is plan
ning to place his new Darco, a marvel 
of speed and power, on the market. 
The officials of a rival concern are 
making strenuous efforts to secure 
knowledge of the mechanism of the 
new engine. From this beginning is 
developed a tale of sensational real
ism and thrills.
Completing the program will be a 
Fox Sunshine comedy, The Light
weight Lover; the Grand News 
Weekly and the Topics of the Day; 
the symphony orchestra, directed by 
David Broudy, will play a charming 
program, both orchestra and pipe or
gan being all-day features. Perform
ances will be continuous from 10:00 
a. m. till 11:00 p. m.
JLEAD
One of your 
best friends i. 
your puiicil
DEALERS NAME
after you get it (or words to lluit ef
fect). You can use it in your experi
ment, throw it out the window, or take 
it out and drink it, but if you do tinlatter, for Petes sake dont get caught at it.
NoteThe doc did not say for Pete's sake.
IN THE WORLD
Open All Year and Every Day 
Pool Reserved for Women Tuesday and 
All Other Days for Men
M. M. D. DANCE.
The Freshmen class of Margaret 
Morrison entertained the Junior class 
at a dance in the Union Friday night, 
April 23. The Union was attractive
ly decorated in ferns, palms, and the 
freshmen colors, purple and yellow.
Balloons, paper hats, and serpentine 
were features of the fourteenth dance, 
the novelty dance. Daughertys Or
chestra furnished the music and the 
chaperones were Dr. Gordon and Miss Parry.
The committee in charge was: 
Eleanor Schomberg, social chairman, 
Aurelia Schleifer, Dorothy Grant, 
Helen Morse, Ruth Snyder.
PITTSBURGH NATATORI UM 
540 DUQUESNE WAY
Sold by loading 
stationersschool 
and in town.
CHEMISTS BEWARE!
Doc Alexander gives out the dope 
on Laboratory brews.
If the embryo chemists of Carnegie 
Tech have special reasons for choos
ing that course, or have any secret 
alcoholic tendencies, they will have to 
exercise them outside the lab. So 
said Doc Alexander, who in a posi
tion to know, as he gazed about the 
class-room at the beary eyes and red 
noses of his enthusiastic students. As 
to just what led the doctor to de
liver this ultimatum we have, at pres
ent, no means of knowing, but it looks 
as though any of our coming PI. S. 
generators who have an idea that they 
can keep grain alcohol in a wash-bottle for other purposes than washing, 
had better change their minds.
We are, said the doc, casting sus
picious eyes toward the back of the 
room, under heavy bond to the Fed
eral authorities for all grain alsohol 
used. Hereafter, all those who re
ceive grain alsohol externally must 
sign a pink slip which very definitely 
fixes the responsibility upon the re
cipient. Now, this alsohol is of a 
good grade, and if propery treated, 
makes a very acceptable drink (we 
take his word for it). Now, con
tinued Doc, with a heavy glare at the 
uneasy back row, we dont give two 
whoops what you do with the alsohol
DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE 
:e Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Evening Wear Accessories.
Also Completi 
Alberts, etc.
M. M. D. NOTES.
Last Thursday evening the House
hold Economics Department had a 
birthday party. All the girls appeared 
in costume and everybody had a won
derful time.
The girls glee club gave a concert 
at the Marine Hospital Wednesday 
night. Saturday afternoon they sang 
at the Margaret Morrison Alumni 
Tea.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
A complete line of high 
grade sets and 
separate pieces.
SPECIAL NOTICE 
Get Your Register of Graduates 
NO V/ AT $.50
On and after July 1, 1020, the 
price will be $1,00 to alumni 
members and $2.00 to all others.
Alumni, who have not remit
ted for the copies they received, 
please do so at once, as the 
money for this publication was 
borrowed from the Institute.
230-234 Diamond Street 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
WEDNERDAY, APRIL 28, 1920.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
1
Pittsburgh, Pa.
R E N A U DS 
FRENCH BAKERY AND 
PASTRY SHOP
127 Oakland Avenue 
NOW OPEN 
Delicious French Pastry, Cakes, Pies, 
Bread and Rolls 
Made of the Very Finest Materials in 
Our Own Sanitary Daylight Bakery
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
OAKLAND 
COMMUNITY 
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGE
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
Evening Clothes and 
Acessories For Renl
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
406 Pittsburgh Life Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 1254 Gran
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANY
II Phono 671 A. 0119 Schsnlsy 
P. & A. 1092-R 
22t ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Household Qooda Moved, 8tored, 
Paokod and Shipped.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
Kniiff Shiitrm (Euuijmjatiun
Fifth and Morewood Avenue*.
Samuel H. Goldenaon, Ph. D., Rabbi.
Temple Study Tel., Schenley 275.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10.
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGI STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning: Worship11 A. M.Social hour and LuncHeon Tor stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
BELLEFI ELD PR E8 BYTE RIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues 
BASLh Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
Sunday school at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boyg to at
tend our services and learn to 
know U8 aa the congregation of 
Friendly People*" A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: :80, S:00. 9:00. 10:00 and
11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy 
Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:80 P M. 
Pow 58. Middle TENEIS for Toe* St dant*
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHUROH 
EH*worth Avenue and Nevllls Stroet 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. R088 R. CALVIN, Assistant. 
Sunday Serrioeo, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 
A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
College Mens Bible Class at 10:ft#, 
ltd by Dr. Calvin.
All Students Qeruilnoly Woioemo.

---------------------------------------------------

ttJM
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE FOUR
A young man always take a girl's: 
hand beiore asking for it."
If a boy goesto school until he is
21 and then gets married, the chances 
arc that he will never be able to rea
lize that all men men are born free 
and equal.* * *
Colby College, Maine, is to mark its 
centennail next June with the per-' 
form an ec of an historical pageant of 
education in a prolog and sixteen epi
sodes.
All cases of dishonesty reported at 
Purdue University, will be published 
in the Daily Exponent, each month. 
The Dishonest Committee and the 
Student Council are cooperating on 
this policy in an effort to eradicate all 
forms of cheating.* * #
An inudstrial university to cost,$5,- 
000,000 will be erected in Shanghai, 
if the plans of Chinese educators and 
industrial leaders are attained. A 
novel feature of the proposed univer
sity will be the incorporation in i.t of 
a complete cotton mill which will em
ploy its students and require them ot 
perform productice toii as well as 
school work.* * *
Prof; Michail Ivanovich Itostovsev, 
formerly of the Imperial University 
of St. Petersburg, of the faculty of 
Oxford University, England, has been 
secured as professor of ancient his
tory at the University of Wisconsin 
for the year J.V520-21.V >1- l|!
The first woman instructor at Pek
ing University will be Sophia Hung 
Chen, Vaswar '10. Miss Chen, who is 
at present studying in the University 
of Chiciygo, has recently accepted a 
position, differed her by the chnacellor 
of the Government university. She 
will taach European history.
Much concern is felt in India by the 
temperance forces over the report of 
the Punjab Excise Commission which 
/hows that in the last fiscal year the 
consumption of spirits alone rose to 
150,800 gallons; an increase of 100,- 
000 gallons in two years.* * x>
Love is what makes a silly grin 
look like a heavenly smile.
Hi * TCT
Mount Holyoke College was the 
winner in a recent hexagonal debate 
between six esatern womens colleges. 
The question was that of trade unions. 
Mount Holyoke College won two de
bates, Iiadcliffe, Barnard, Smith and 
Vassal* each won one decision, and 
Wellesley lost both times.H vT m
One hundred and thirty-five women 
students are earning their way while 
attending the University of Wisconsin 
this year. Stenographic work, clerk
ships in the University and Capitol, 
caring for children, serving at par
ties, doing ironing in prvatc families, 
mendng, making candy, and working 
in cafeterias are among the occupa
tions undertaken by these women.
The Y. M. C. I). at the Tokyo Im
perial University, Japan, has included 
in its departmental service a free leg
al Advice Bureal and a free Clinic 
and Maternity Hospital.
What do you think of the bird 
that'll sit down and write twenty-six 
closely-worded pages of much to his 
girl, special delivery, and then send 
a penny post card to the folks at 
home, telling thorn that hes too busy
l.o write? id
In an Intelligence Examination condueled at the Utah Agricultural Col
lege, first honors were won by Lucile Talnmge, a Junior. The .1/1 girls 
who took the examination averaged
07 per cent, while the 8.'] boys only 
averaged 158 per cent. From 5 to '65 
per cent was considered to be a high 
grade.* * *
Twenty-one students out of the one 
hundred and ten enrolled at Whitier 
College, California, have volunteered 
for Christian work at home and 
abroad.
at the University of Wisconsin by the 
Student Senate, the legislative body 
of ihe'student government.* * *
L/ew Theological Seminary, New 
York, has opened its doors to women 
ar/1 has set aside one whole dormitory 
for their use.* * *
The University of Michigan is to 
have a Sunday college paper. It will 
contain. feature articles written by 
the .tudents and faculty. It is the 
only paper of its kind known.
* * *
/in Japan there are but few oppor
tunities for women to secure colleviate training. There are two normal 
college, one privately endowed uni
versity and a few mission schools for 
women. In only two of the five Im
perial Universities are women allowed 
to matriculate.
is with you once again: 
The famous friend of 
old  made by the 
original process in con
formity with the present 
regulationson sale 
everywhere.After a hearty 
meal, youll 
avoid that 
stuffy feeling 
if you chew 
a stick of
It takes a cute girl to get so close 
to a man that when he tries to kiss 
her its impossible for her to get 
away.
----------
WRIGLEYS
LOST:A swimming medal. Finder 
please turn it in at Dean Tarbell's 
office.Other benefits: to teeth, 
breath, appetite, nerves. 
Thats a good deal to 
get for 5 cents!
FOUNDTwo-blade, gold-handled 
pen knife turned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, Friday, April 9th. Found on 
campus.
accMHMn 'nor
M&Uil/U
WweSt Int/S um/ 7/r/iV
tfli/ieuAvo'-t&1.ant$Hi,
!___________
FOUNDHancocks Applied Me
chanicsturned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, March 22, 1020.Sealed TightKept Right
FOUNDSmall 
Union April 1' 
bells office.ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. ST.LOUIS
LOSTA Thcta Xi Fraternity Pin on 
Ca npus. Finder please return io D.
B. Cawthrop, Science '20.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFI* DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
FOUNDIn C. I. T. Library. Seeds 
Principles of Machine Drawing. 
Macmillans lo yarithniic and trig, 
tables (marked property of Baum 
Blvd. Terror. B. B. T., come and get 
. your book.) Miscellaneous odd 
gloves. Apply C. I. T. Library.The Flavor Lasts
K8TC/WN
Fair Dealing Is the Foreword of the Tartan Advertisers.
fB!iQ2/SiS/S/Bl/G/S/iS/5/SfS/B/19(lS/BJSl/BI3IS/Qf/QZ/TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
EXPENSE by buying better 
nhoen. You will find thorn fur 
choupor to wear than nhocti 
which urn not no high In duality.
Our now models for FALL and 
WINTER Hi'fi now In. arid they 
.iiy full of anapJunt uultnble 
fee the oollpflo man.
You may hunt the 
world overbut you can
not find a cigarette to 
take the place of Murad.
The tobacco in Murad is I 00% pure 
Turkishand Turkish is the most 
famous of all tobaccos for cigarettes.
It is true that ordinary cigarettes 
cost a trifle less.
Judge for yourself----!
EnolnoorM* Equipment, Inotrumontn of Prooltdon, Bivio Print 
and Brown Print Papara and 
Cloth*.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
(BJJf'Wrh^Ut?fc4iiiUr/UtUii/[>)(t>JfV/lJJr4QJ|WU/tV;nJ;dRANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
The freshmen at Kansas University 
do not have to wear the traditional 
green caps this year since they de
feated the Sophomores in the annual 
scrap.* * *
Tolerance presupposes indifference, 
and precludes any eagerness of love 
or hate. It is not in human nature to 
be tolerant when we are deeply in 
earnest.Robert Wilbourn Root.* * V
A man does not have to be a phil
osopher in order to discover that all 
rich girls are handsome.* * *
Hobart College is the first Ameri
can educational institution to receive 
a 77 millimeter field piece from the 
French government.* * *
The University of Vermont is the 
first college to adopt the plan of in
suring against baseball financial losses 
due to had weather.* * *
A notably large number of college 
and university presidents are resign
ing this spring. A partial list reads: 
Arthur Twining Hadley, of Yale; Ed
win Erie Sparks, Pennsylvania State 
College; Provost Edgar F. Smith. 
University of Pennsylvania; Dr. M.
I,. Burton. University of Minnesota: 
hr. Edmund .lames, University of Illi
nois; hr. W. 11. ('rawford, Allegheny 
CoMevo; Chancellor Frank Strong, 
University of Kanra:.
SKiBO INN
EATS
Cigars aid Candy
Makn nftlicHialiKlGmde'Tiirkisli ^ aiidfyflimijmtesintlicVM
ft NEAREST TO TECH
| Cor. Craig and Forbes
ffi FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
T~>......-I'N* Nearest and Best Laundry 
 Agency.
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 a ml 5 to 8
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Belief ield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
Oakland
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
