VARSITY NIGHT 
Schenley Theatre 
Saturday Evening
VOL. XV. No. 7.hr Sari an
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
Tech vs. Allegheny 
At Tech Field 
Saturday, November 6
NOVEMBER 3, 1920.
Tech to Observe Varsity Night 
Sat., Nov. 6 at Schenley Theatre
Allegheny and Plaid teams to be guests of honor. Arts-Tech 
Jass Orchestra will furnish music. 1,500 seats on sale. All Tech 
expected to turn out.
Plots And Playwrights, Recent
Broadway Success to be Presented
A large evening at small cost is 
only one of the inducements to be 
considered in urging everyone on the 
Campus to be at the Schenley Thea
tre on Saturday evening, November 
6th, the night of the Allegheny game. 
The affair is called Varsity Night be-, 
cause the Varsity squads of both 
teams, with the coaches, will be the 
guests of honor. We are going to 
show Allegheny what Tech can do in 
the way of entertainment. We can 
show them a good time when we all 
work together, and have one ourselves 
at the same time.
The general admission tickets are 
now on sale .on the Campus. The 
price of these are twenty-five cents 
and they entitle the purchaser to a 
seat above the runway in the bal
cony. These tickets may be ex
changed for better ones, ranging in 
price from fifty cents to one dollar. 
The first twenty rows in the orches
tra, and the first three in the balcony 
will be one dollar each. The remain
der of the lower floor and the next 
two rows in the balcony will be 
seventy-five cents, and the rest of 
the balcony seats to the runway will 
be fifty cents each. The whole affair 
is a student enterprise for the benefit 
o:i' Techs athletes. The desire is, pri
marily, to get everyone out to a real 
pep meeting and to show the Var
sity a good time. Any money which 
is cleared will be devoted to getting 
under way some new athletic sport at 
Tech, as for instance, a hockey team. 
If this proposition should not work 
out, the money will be given to the 
Athletic Association to be used in the 
furtherance of athletics of all kinds. 
A full evenings production of a reienfc- B-i:o:\(Uvs?-y- -success,. Blots*-ami 
Playwrights, which is now in rehear
sal under the direction of Mr. Hubert 
Osborne, will be given by the stu
dents of the Drama School. TheArtis-Tech Jazz Band will play be
fore, during, and after the perform
ance. You may not recognize the 
name at first glance, but this is the 
same, bunch o f Arts Division men who 
held the General Assembly for almost 
half an hour a few weeks ago, when 
everyone present was ready to walk 
out on the speaker who was trying 
to interest them. That ought to be 
enough of a recommendation if you 
have never heard them. If you have, 
you will be there with bells on just 
to see Hertz juggle the drum sticks.
Yells, cheers, songs by the whole 
crowd, and everything else that goes 
to make up one grand and glorious old 
Tech celebration will be there, and if 
every man on the campus does his 
part at least to the extent of buying 
a general admission ticket, we will 
put the thing across big. Half of the 
first floor will be reserved for Alle
gheny students and friends, and it 
looks as though they are going to do 
more than their share in the repre
sentation. Every Tech man should 
get a date, and get down there on 
the first floor where he can see every
thing that is going on and be in and
o fthe spirit which is going to be thick 
in the air that night.
It is planned and hoped to make 
Varsity Night an annual affair from 
now on. Upon the way this one turns 
cut will depend whether or not it can 
be repeated. We feel certain that it 
can and will, with the aid of all loyal 
Techites, prove one of the biggest 
things ever put over by the school, 
and we have some pretty big achieve
ments to beat to do that.
The time: 8:15 p. m.} Saturday, 
November 6th. The place: Theg VARSRRIS -.- 'r.r,'Ihe oocr -.i-n: Var
sity Night. The girl: Well, thats up 
to you, but shell be tickled to go, 
thats certain.
ECH RIFLE CLUB MEETS
On the evening of October 26th, 
the first meeting of the Tech Rifle 
Club was held. There were about 
fifty members present and the mo
tion to organize the club was passed 
by an unanimous vote. It was de
cided to fix the entrance fee at $1.00, 
while the charter is open, and $1.00 
a year as general dues.
The officers elected were: Carl M. 
Walters, President; James A. Pray, 
Vice President: John L. McCullough, 
Secretary; Arlo G. Darnell, Treas
urer; Hugh S. Torbert, Executive 
Officer.
It is the intention of the club to 
have a competent instructor at the 
range every afternoon. It is expect
ed that the Eighteenth Regiment 
Armory will be used. This is one of 
the best equipped and most modern 
ranges in the country. All indications 
point to this becoming a recognized 
sport at Tech. A Varsity team will 
be organized to compete with other 
colleges.
PLOTS Al PLAYWRIGHTS PRESENTED BY DRAMA DEPT.
Produced by Washington Square
Players with marked success.
Plots and Playwrits, first done at 
the 47th Workshop, Harvard Uni
versity, and later at the Washington 
Square Players, is' a masterpiece in 
modern satirical play writing. In all 
their brief history, says one New 
York critic, the Washington Square 
Players have done nothing that, as a 
satire, or for sheer fun, compares 
with Plots and Playwrights'. This 
brilliant satire on pot boiling play 
making in the vicinity of 42nd and 
Broadway street is the work of Tdward MasseV. In the p'lay a success
ful young dramatist, commissioned to 
dash off a play, complains of a lack 
of material, but a short story writer 
undertakes to show him drama on 
every floor of an Eleventh street 
lodging house. Three succeeding 
scenes disclose three episodes, real 
vivid and effecting. The dramatist 
says these bits must be welded to
gether and the result is, in the last 
part, visualized in an uproariously 
funny burlesque of a crook play in 
which the characters of the three epi
sodes take the ports. This burlesque 
is warranted to bring forth many and 
many a laugh even from the most dig
nified.
The entire production is under the 
personal direction of Mr. Hubert Os
born, now well known in this school 
for his splendid direction of Betty 
Jumel and the Puppet Master. The 
Saturday evening performance will be 
given in the Schenley Theater for the 
Tech Theater party. It will also be 
given the nights of November 17th, 
fsth and 20th, with a Friday matinee 
on the 19th. The cast i^ as follows:
Maggie...................................Sarah Floyd
Casper Gay.........Ross Hertz
Joseph Hastings............Russell Collins
Mrs. Hammond.................Helen Forrest
Tom Burch...............Lawrence Paquin
Molly Hammond................................
Jane Ziegenfelder & Cloyde Dalzell 
Frank Devoy......................................
.. Arthur Lubin & Donald Colpitts
Alice Merriam................Mary Lissfelt
Bessie Dodge................I-Iellen Basinger
Edme Jackes.........Lela May Aultman
Dick Gri : 'th......................Justin Lees
William Lloyd....................illiam Dean
Sidney Griffith W................Jack Willard
Bob Douglas.....................Park McClure
The Waiter.........................Alvin Speer
Two Policemen.
.4
A meeting of the Carnegie Camera 
Club will be held Thursday evening, 
Nov. 4, in Room 113 Science at 8:00 
p. m. The general program for the 
year will be discussed and a talk will 
be given by Prof. Leeds, who is an 
advanced amateur with much inter
esting experience. For years he has 
spent his summers in the Adirondack 
Mountains, tramping through the 
woods and over the hills, obtaining 
many beautiful photographs of scen
ery and wild life. He will recount 
to us many of his adventures.
The club was organized last year 
by a number of students who felt that 
such a club would be an asset to the 
school, for there are many students 
much interested in photography. In 
this second year the club ought to 
make much headway. One of the 
future meetings will probably be de
voted to an exhibit of photographs 
taken last summer or previously by 
the members. All the old members 
are urged to attend and any new stu
dents are heartily welcomed to come 
and join us if interehted in any phase
o fthe subject. The bigger this first 
meeting is, the greater will be the 
activity throughout the season.
All the mens dorms are holding 
their annual fall quarter dance in the 
Union Friday night, November 5, 
with Maggios dispellers of jazz. This 
dance is being given under the aus
pices of I and II but the committee 
wishes it to be known and extends 
the invitation to men of all dorms, as 
well as men who have lived in the 
dormitory in former years and are 
located elsewhere at present.
In former years the dance has been 
looked forward to by the students and 
especially the co-eds as quite an occa
sion, for the men have so much more 
in common than at some of the others 
that are given. A good time and 
attendance is assured. There is no 
other dance that week. You are ex
pected there, and men, dont hesitate 
about going just because of the fact 
that you do not know any of the 
Maggie Murphh, but come and whis
per in the ear of the committee and 
all will be fine.
Prof. and Mrs. Paul McCorkle and 
Capt. and Mrs. Edward Steidle will 
act as patrons and patronesses.
PREDICTS ELECTION
Say, fellows, you missed something 
if you werent at that Industries last 
Wednesday! It was started off (and 
it is said that several Plebes, in the 
back of the room, were disturbed from 
their slumber) by several peppy 
yells, led by Oakley.
Dean Morris was the first speaker 
and he started off with a bang! His 
subject proved to be a timely and in
teresting one on Voting. Major 
Evans, of the Signal Corps, was next 
on the program and gave some new 
dope on the R. O. T. C. Col. Brooks 
then continued the subject from a 
business standpoint. He maintained 
that the trained military man will 
have it all over the other fellow in 
business.
A new topic was introduced by 
Walters. He spoke of the interest 
aroused by the formation of the Rifle 
Club and called for new members.
President Hammond then anAVO HOLDS BIG SMOKER
Members, prospective members, and 
alumni of the Avo Club were pres
ent at. a smoker given in the Varsity 
Clan Restaurant Friday night last. 
About thirty boosters were prehent, 
and interesting talks were given by 
the faculty advisers and members of 
the tlumni, who offered many sug
gestions for the advancement of the 
club for the coming year.
The club has in view many inter
esting lectures and technical papers 
which will be read at the future 
meetings.
After the hot dogs were consumed, 
entertainment was furnished by remi
niscences of the older members and 
alumni of the - club.
All men interested in modern elec
trical development are cordially invietd to attend the meetings of the 
club.
Watch for announcements of the 
next meeting.
ON TO WHEEL! 
TECHS
nounced the. _ rules . governing the* ii*;>u-know they havcn*orgofctcn thatposting of notices. Although few stu
dents are aware of the fact, there 
are four bulletin boardsa student, 
faculty, military,. and office. Ham
mond also talked about another seri
ous matter. It was noticed, particu
larly at the Grove City and University 
of Cincinnati games, that some of 
the students jeered at the opposing 
cheer leaders. This shows an exceed
ingly poor spirit of sportsmanship, 
and is not the kind desired at Tech. 
Visitors accompanying a team, and 
incidentally boosting the gate re
ceipts, must be shown every courtesy.
The following committees were an
nounced:
Dept, of Athletics 
Good, Senior Irvin, Junior
Smith, Soph.
Student Deportment 
R. E. Eardley (Chairman)
J. B. Hildebrand R. H. Guyton
J. E. Chick J. A. Jones
P. M. Walters 
Club Room Committee 
W. T. Mantell, Chairman 
Marceau Vannan
Schillinger
Last, but by no means least, was 
the straw vote. Red* Gross decided 
to enlighten the assembly on the 
presidential possibilities. Reds 
platform was Why work and 
starve? The amber-headed boy 
from Erie started off with the breezy 
stuff garneredd from his native land. 
But he had his dope right in line and 
proceeded to knock em cold with 
the gleanings of many weary hours 
spent on the water front watching 
the shoe boxes cruise around Lake 
Erie.
P. D. Good then decided to shovel 
awhile. Starting out in Robert W. 
Service style, P. D. kept the boys in 
an uproar from the time he started 
TWO9561Teck Tartan 
until he finished. He stamped his 
foot, waved his arms (both of em) 
and raved along, generally. The key
note of P. D.s speech was If the 
Democrats run the country, Ill drown 
my sorrow in Whistle. He sure did 
take away the boys breath (but they 
saw him taking it and made him put 
it back).
Schillinger then took a crack at it 
and urged a Republican ticket.
The result of the vote:
Harding ...............................198
Cox ....................................... 52
Debs ..................................... 11
Christensen ............................... 3
P. D. Good ................................. 1
Once a year we have to show our 
neighboring towns what it is to have 
a gang of them Tech boys and girls 
breeze into town and give cm somethink to think about, something that 
will last for a while. The victim last 
year was a place called little Wash
ington and when that Tech special 
lolled in it was like someone had 
found a cellar in a prohibition town, 
and had cut loose invitin everyone in.
Well, boys, on the thirteenth of 
November, something is going to 
happen down in old West Virginia. 
Yea, dont get excited, youll know 
soon enough. 
Some say theyre going to hoof it, 
some say theyre going to ride the 
ide door Pullmans, but anyhow they 
all say theyre going to be there even
if they have to start a swimming
team and navigate the Ohio.
The band hasnt forgotten that
theyre going to be there and when
Cornell trip and what it means to 
turn a horn inside out for every sharp 
and fiat hidden away in its crooks, 
Lhen, you sure do know that.old West 
Virginia is booked for something im
portant.
Now listen, boys, theres one big 
Jiing going to happen. Its going to 
pc- a regular prize fight with each 
man swinging eleven arms, and each 
arm possessing enough steam to put 
you to sleep for a little while. But 
you dont want to sleep more'than a 
^little while, because after that last 
cell has sounded youll be hungry, and 
then those waiters will not hurry fast 
enough at that Tech (hoe down) in 
some nice little (in fact big) Wheeling 
hostelry. There will be plenty doing, 
with the latest syncopated musical 
poetry with Sullivan as the poet.
Now boys, go over to Maggie 
Muiph and whisper in her ear that 
you want her for Saturday, Nov. 13. 
(Yes, this is a lucky dato for Tech.) 
'Tell her that you will be ready to 
start in the morning, and that she 
can be back in time for a couple of 
dances in the Tech jazz hall (Union).
Now to dope all this out, apply a 
little psychology and associate No
vember the THIRTEENTH with 
WHEELING and BETHANY. Now 
(you have it. Dont forget it. More 
will be disclosed later, so keep your 
ears open for the good words.
Lehigh Eleven Proves Too
Strong for Plaid Gridders
Role, Tavaria and Herrington individual stars for Lehigh. Tech 
enters game handicapped by stage fright and a fumble in first 
three minutes of playweakens morale.
Weirman Scores Techs Touchdown
With Sensational 73-Yard Run
Bethlehem, Pa.The Lehigh jinx 
consistently lingered with the Carnegio Tech football team Saturday 
afternoon, at Taylor Field, and again 
the Plaid eleven went down in de
feat, this time by a score of 17-1?.
Lehigh played a fast, spirited game, 
and possessed two ends who spoiled 
Tech's plays in the first half, which 
coupled with stage fright and a fum
ble in the first three minutes ol' play, 
which cost a touchdown, weakened 
the morale of the team. The inability 
of Techs line to change consistently and together, allowed Lehigh to break 
through and spoil tho passes and end 
runs. While the fToch ends were not up to their opponents in the first half, 
during which time the Brown and 
White team amassed most of their 
gains around the ends yet in the sec
ond half they played football and 
stopped the end runs. Lehighs end 
runs stopped, gaining but little 
through the line and Marshall ruin- ning their forward passing game, the 
second half was just one punt after 
another, with neither side favored.
Allen Weirman sprung the surprise 
of the day and brought tho 5,000 spectators to their feet at tho boKinnlng 
of the third period with a sensational 
run of 711 yards for tho Skibos lone touchdown.
Lehigh drew first blood when Q-ullck 
recovered Weirmans fumble and ran 
HO yards for a touchdown. When tho 
Tech eleven hold tho Bethlehem boys 
on the one-yard lino for downs, Tech 
punted out, Lehigh signalling for a
free catch and then scored on a place
ment goal from the 23-yard line.
A few minutes after this score, a 
forward pass from Rote to Savaria 
scored another touchdown for Lehigh. 
From then on Coach Kradys boys never had a chance to win.
Pittman, from Westingliouse High, 
who took Weirmans place, although 
it was. his first game, played like a 
veteran. Anderson did Techs punt
ing and did it. well. Marshall Is the man who broke up the* forward passes 
and caused Lehigh to resort to other forms of attack.
The game was an exceptionally 
clean game, not once did the players 
engage in an argument" of any kind. The summary:
TechG Lehigh17
McCleah !.. II. E................. Gulliek
Sprinkle ...............It. T............... Custck
Roson bloom 11. G.. . V: ;.' Maglnnis
Irwin ...................C... r:w.. Goldman
Henderson .........L.G............ McCarthy
Comfort .................L. T.................. Good
Wit tiner ................L. 33................ Larkin
Anderson ..........Q.B....................... Roto
Marshall ..............11. H.............. Savaria
Wlorman..............L. H...... Herrington
Brumbaugh ----F.B..............Douglass.
Officials1Thorpe, LaSalle, referee; 
Crowoll, Swurthmoro, umpire.
Touchdowns- -Gullclc, Savaria, Wior- man.
Goals from touchdownsMaglnnis2, -Mold goalMaglnnis.
Substitutions-- Lehigh: Wilson for
Gullclc, Giilick for Wilson, Carlisle for 
Good, Moorohouso for Cuslek, Harpor 
for Savaria. Toch: Pittman for Wlor- mnn.
SheHave you ever kissed a girl? 
HeAre you gathering statistics 
or is that an invitation?
Angry Diner: Waiter, you are not 
fit to serve a pig!
Waiter: Im doing my best, sir!
SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
Mr. Morris Knowles, one of the 
[fiitys best known consulting engi
neers, was the speaker at the Science 
Assembly on. Wednesday, October 20. 
Mr. Knowles spoke on the subject of 
;City Pinning, with which he is 
thoroughly acquainted. During the 
war times, it was Mr. Knowles , who 
planned such vast army camps as 
Gamp Meade, Camp McClellan, and 
others. The speaker discussed the 
importance of the subject, explaining 
how labor conditions make it a very 
timely one now. He pointed out the 
width of the problem and the numer
ous steps which must be taken in the 
course of city planning. The ques
tion of zoning, which is a relatively 
new step in city planning, was dis
cussed briefly. Mr. Knowles illus
trated his talk with lantern slides 
which brought a clearer view of the 
problem, and showed what improve
ments have been made in variouh 
cities by an effort along the lines of 
city planning. The students showed 
their appreciation of the first-hand 
information which the speaker gave 
them.
At this meeting the upper classmen 
voted for the Junior member of the 
Student Activities Board. The elec
tion resulted in a tie between Hen
derson and F. I. Smith.
CHEMISTS CLUB ACTIVITIES
The GhoiiT'.ntr/ olub of  CtVrnegro 
Tecli is making a belated start, but
il, is at last on the way. Tho year's 
activities will commcneo with a meet
ing and get together party in tho 
Science Club Room on Friday eve
ning, November 5. Mr. II. J. Booth, 
an eminent Pittsburgh glass manufac
turer, has consented to address tho 
club. Mr. Booth hah been connocted 
with the glass industry for many 
years and he will certainly huvo some 
valuable information for thoso inter
ested.
Mr. P. S. Donnell of the Electrical 
Engineering Department, who has re
cently boon elected an honorary mem
ber of tho Senior Chemical Sqction, 
has promised to say a few words, Mr. 
Donnell has done a good deal ol! 
traveling, his trips including tho 
Philippines and the African jungles, 
and lie has some interesting stories 
to relate.
To suplement the talks there will 
be eats, smokos and drinks.
Tho officers of tho Chemists Club 
for the current year are: President, 
J. B. ZimVnerman; Vice President, .J. 
K. W. Macalpine; Secretary, G. Stahlman; Treasurer, Marc.
Mr. Marc is the Chairman of the 
Club Room Committee, and indications 
are that the room will be ready for 
use in the near future. Mr. G. Stahlman is Chairman of the Committee on 
Stunts and Refrehhments for Fridays 
meeting. Mr. I. Sissman heads the 
Publicity Committee.
TO
A special meeting was called by 
President W. J. Reilly on Wednesday, 
October 27, at 4:30 to receive the re
port of the Constitution Committee^ 
The constitution was1 read and with 
some minor changes was adopted. It 
was then voted to submit the docu
ment to Dean Tarbeli and to the 
Student Activinties Board for ap
proval, after which official recognition 
would follow.
The president informed the mem
bers that. on November 14 the one 
months novitiate will be over and 
that on that day the Carnegie 
Forum will become a permanent 
school organization. The members 
agreed that it would be a good plan 
to have a large get-together meeting 
of all those interested in the organi
zation before that; date, and accord
ingly voted that the next meeting be 
held on November 9 (two nights be
fore Armifftice Day), in Room 107, 
Design Building, at 8 P. M. A perma
nent constitution will then be adopted. 
An interesting program is planned, 
to include humorous selections, music, 
etc., and all those who are interested 
in any form of literary activity, 
whether debating, declamation, read
ing, public speaking or any related 
branch, are urged to be pres'ent.
ITALIAN LACE EXHIBIT 
HELD IN RIS BUILDING
"Pippa Passes ptOHcntcd by 
Drama Student's.
An exhibition arid salo of Italian 
Inco and linen outwork made at tho 
Robert Browning Memorial School of 
Asolo, Italy, was hold in tho Arts 
Building last wock. Tho procooda nro 
to be used to help rc-oslabllsh tho 
laco school which was nearly de
stroyed during tho war.
Asolo was tho TYminor homo of 
Robert Browning. It was lioro 70 
years ago tho poot saw tho libido silk 
winder, who gave him tho inspira
tion to write his immortal Pippa 
Pusses. In 1892, Mr. Barret Brown
ing, son of the poot, bought tho 
crumbling factory, in which Pippa 
worked, and transformed it into tho 
present school.
Representing the nation of tho lace , 
school, was Mr. Lucci, the Italian con
sul, who resides in this city.
In this connection the School of 
Drama gave a performance of Robert 
Brownings Pippa Passes, in the 
theater.
The work, though cast in dramatic 
form, was not originally intended for 
the stage, but, thanks to Mr. Stevens 
judicious selection and the sympa
thetic and intelligent reading of all 
three actors, the greater part of 
Brownings verse must have got 
over to every member of the audicnce on Tuesday night, even to those 
who were'not familiar with the work 
in its printed form.
Of the four episodes which, with 
the prologue and epilogue make up 
the poem, only one . . . the dramatic 
Sebald and Ottima . . , was pre
sented. The choice was a wise one; 
it is certainly the most playable 
of the. four, and with the scene of 
Pippas setting forth on the adventure 
of her one holiday and her home
coming, makes a complete drama.
Miss Crowe has never been seen to 
better advantage than in the part of 
the little silk-weaver, Pippa. It is 
no easy task to play two fairly long 
scenes alone on the stage, but she ac
quitted herself with charming natur
alness and simplicity and a girlish 
seriousness that quite won the audi
ence. Both she and Reid as Sebald, 
kept up the tense feeling of their 
scene throughout and delivered 
Browning's difficult lines with warmth 
aond understanding.
The two settings were finely con
trasted; the bare, clean airynoss of 
Pippa's white-washed room with its 
;:huft of sunlight through the narrow 
window, and tho close and sinister 
1 shrub-house of tho sccond scene.

---------------------------------------------------

NGHc henSTHE ARTAN.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1920.
(Eartan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postofiice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Editor-in-Chief ..................................................................................Lawrence Paquin
Phone Hazel 9422
Business Manager.........................................................................,.. . Bon A. Siller
Schenley 9211
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Editor 
William D. Hall
Assistant Managing Editor 
J. T. Ames
News Editor 
J. K. W. Macalpine
Athlotic Editor 
Fred L. Knowlo
Assistant..............................S. P. Smith
School Editors
M. M. D.................................Helen Lewis
Arts ..........................................C. Shuman
Industries.................Donald S. Harding
Science ....................................I. Sissman
Art Editor 
M. G. Winslow 
Circulation Manager 
William H. Obenour 
BUSINESS STAFF 
Kobert Mills Walter HeilerAckerman D. Sonnemann
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor or the make up.
All businosa communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at one.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the ju#naturu to be withheld if desired.
Ail news items must be in the student postofiice, Central Building, before 
4:iiQ P. M. Fridays.
The Tartan Ofiice, Room 152 Arts, will be open as follows:
Wednesday, 3:30-4:30. Thursday 3:30-4:30.
GET IN THE PARADE.
At practically all of the games played this season on Tech Field, the 
lack of what wc used t o call the Old Tech Spirit has been the most con
spicuous feature of the game. The yells have gone well enough, to be 
sure, but there is certainly room for improvement. But the matter which 
should receive the most attention is that of getting down on the field for 
the Snake Dance between halves. This has been spoken of at assemblies 
all over the school during the last week, and a great improvement should 
be shown.When we first came to Tech, 'way back in the days of '15 and '10, all 
of the Tech men used to come out onto the field for the Dance. Not only 
those who were in the bleachers, but the fellows who had their girls with 
them up in the stands as well. Dont you remember when we used to form 
the letters C. I. T. on the field, and all that sort of stuff?
Now its hard to get even a small portion of the bleachers down. Why 
is it? If you havent a pretty good reason for staying in your seat, you 
want to be down there on the field. All the girls who come with real 
Tech men will be glad to see their escorts helping out the school by join
ing in such demonstrations. If he doesnt make any move to do so, girls, 
urge him to. You cun do your part even if you cant pce-rade yourself.
And if wc all get down, there will be no fear of those who stay in the 
bleachors appropriating all the best seats while their more loyal class
mates show their Tech Spirit. This latter practice has been the most noticeablo and also most reprehensible feature of the unwillingness of the students 
to comc down on the field. If you dont want to do your part, at least have 
the decency to respect the rights of those who are doing theirs.
STUDENT CALENDAR.
November 48:00 P. M.Carnegie Camera Club..Room 113, Science Bldg. 
November 54:30 to 0:30 P. M.Senior Tea for Seniors of all Divi
sions ..........................................................................................Union
November 68:00 P. M.Chemists Club Meeting............Science Club Room
November 68:30 P. M,Dorms Nos 1 and 2 Dance.........................Union
Novomber 0Football, Tech vs. Allegheny.........................................Tech Field
November (JCross-Country Track Meet, Tech vs. Lehigh.
November G1Tech-Allegheny Night......................................Schenley Theater
November 12Carnegie Musical Club Smoker..............................................Union
November 12Dunce by Sophomore Arts to all Arts Students. .Arts Bl'dg.
November 18On to Wheeling.............................................................Tech Special
Novomber 10Sophomoro-Plebe Dance, M. M. D.......................................Union
Novomber 20Football, Tech vs. W. & J...............................................Tech Field
Novombor 20Football Smoker.......................................................................Union
Novomber 25-27No Classes. Thanksgiving Recoss.
FRESHMEN RECEPTIONS BY DEANS SCALES AND TARBELL.
Inaugurating a now custom which will undoubtedly bo continued in fu
ture years, the Dean of Women and the Doan of Men will give, during 
November, several Informal rocoptlons to the women and men of the Fresh
man Classes In all Divisions of the Institute. They will bo held in the 
Carnegie Union from 4:30 to 0 o'clock on the afternoons of November 9th, 
10th a ml 23rd. One-third of the. class will receive, by mail, individual 
invitation for oach reception.Those Freshmen who were unable to give a Pittsburgh address at the 
time of roistrution, or who have since changed their rooms, are requested to 
call propmptly at the Deans Oillcos and file correct addresses.
President Hammerschlag and Dean 
Morris of the Industries Division will 
address a meeting of the Industries 
night men to be held in Room 104, 
Industries, on Friday, November 5, 
at 9 p. m. All Industries classes will 
be dismissed in time to enable the 
men to attend the assembly, which 
will be in the nature of an organi
zation and get-together meeting.
The officers to be elected are Presi
dent, Vice President, Secretary, and 
Treasurer of the Industries Night 
Division, in addition to a committee 
on the Night School dance, a repre
sentative for the Student Activities 
Board, and a Thistle Board member.
This is the third attempt of the 
year at an organization meeting in 
Industries, both of the others having 
failed for lack of support. For this 
reason a one hundred per cent at
tendance is earnestly requested for 
Friday night by the backers of the 
meeting.
TEIvNON CLUB.
The Teknon Club has held two meet
ings, on last Friday and the one bofore. Last Friday some of the plans 
for this year wore taken up. In the 
absence of President 11. (*. Niehol, 
Miss Boguo took charge.
The subject of membership was 
taken up, and it was decided that 
each member is to submit names for 
election at the next meeting.
Dr. Kerr, and in his absence, Cliff 
Barbour are taking charge of the re
ligious part of the meetings and give 
very interesting talks on various 
phases of religious life.
1921 THISTLE BOARO
The 1921 Thistle Board have organ
ized and work is already started on 
the new Year Book. The Thistle this 
year will be distributed to every stu
dent in school; the subscription price 
of $3.00 is to be added to the registra
tion fee at time of the winter quarter 
registration. Due to the increased 
cost of printing and paper, the board 
will have a hard job to keep up the 
standard of the book at the old price. 
It is the duty of every student, by 
their co-operation, to lighten this 
task as much as possible.
The members of the board are 
elected from the Junior classes of the 
four divisions, including a Sophomore 
representative from each of the 
Sophomore classes. The editor-inchief is elected separately, alternating 
each year, from the Science, Indus
tries and Arts divisions. The mem
bers of the new board are as fol
lows :
J. G. Byler...................Editor-in-Chief
J. D. Macwhinney. .Business Manager
J. F. Ames.....................Sales Manager
Betty Paul................................Secretary
II. D. Skyrn...........................Treasurer
10. M. Stultz..........................Art Editor
R. B. Nation.... Photographic Editor 
Martha Levy.. .Assistant Art Editor
Mabol Snyder.................................M. M.
Marion McCombs...........................M. M.
Dorothy Grant.................................M. M.
Donald S. Harding...................Industry
Herbert M. Whito...................Industry
W. A. Simpson.........................Industry
L. L. Nusbaum............................Design
Carl E. Landefeld.......................Design
J. D. Evans..................................Science
THE GRAPHIC A.
A meeting of the Graphica Club 
was held in the Graphica Club Room, 
Wednesday, October 27, 1920, at 4:30 
P. M.
Committees appointed by President 
J. J. Rudesill were Entertainment, 
Library and Club Room Committees.
A committee was also appointed to 
take charge of the publicity for the 
Tech-Bethany trip to Wheeling.
Mr. Creech, instructor in Presswork, 
and Mr. Verdin, instructor in Typog
raphy, were eleceted honorary mem
bers of the Graphica.
TECH MECHANICS CLUB.
Tech Mechanics Club held a meet
ing last Wednesday noon, for the pur
pose of choosing a pin. Two very 
appropriate designs were submitted, 
one of which was chosen. Nomina
tions were then opened for Publicity 
Manager. D. S. Harding was elected.
Tentative plans were advanced for a 
novelty Dance, to be held in the 
near future. The following commit
tee was selected to make the neces
sary arrangements: M. J. Jones,
chairman; D. S. Harding, W. T. Mantell and H. M. White.
The prospects of the club, social 
and otherwise, for the ensuing year, 
look very promising. The club roster 
shows the upper classes to be well 
represented, however, more Machine 
Production Plebes are desired.
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION CLUB.
The Building Construction Club held 
a meeting in Room 119, Wednesday, 
October 27, 1920, at 4:30 P. M.
The meeting was called to order by 
P. D. Good, who asked for nominations 
for officers.
The officers elected were: May,
President; Bliss Vice President; San
ford, Secretary; Bugland, Treasurer.
President May explained the pur
pose of the club and emphasized the 
fact that all new men who were tak
ing building construction should at
tend these meetings.
M. NI. 0. ACTIVITIES
Y. W. CONFERENCE.
A conference of the Y. W. C. As. 
of Margaret Morrison, P. C. W. and 
Pitt, was held at the Pitt Hospitality 
House this week. The first session 
was Saturday night, at which Miss 
Richards gave an interesting Jtalk. 
The Sunday session began at three 
oclock and lasted till nine, with an 
intermission for dinner and getting 
acquainted. The rest of the time was 
spent in discussion, and proved very 
interesting.
PLEBE REGULATION COMMITTEE
The Senate last week appointed the 
Plebe Regulation Committee, which is 
as follows:
Mabel Alexander; Senior member, 
Peg Slonakor; Junior member, Laura 
Bughor; Sophomore members, Lois 
Miller and Helen Duncombe.
GIVE US A BOOST.
Can you imagino the llec Hall all 
cozy and homey-looking? Curtains of 
cretonne and furniture mended? That 
is just what the Y. W. C. A. is going 
to do with the help of the classes and 
organizations in Margaret Morrison.
The Y. W. C. A. is planning to do 
some big work this year andwhen 
well under wayhopes to accomplish 
a great deal toward a unity of spirit 
throughout the school. Everyone is 
busy, theres the rubbut there are 
some real parties and some real good 
times planned for this year and we 
ask only one thinga little boosting 
all the while.
NEW COURSE AT M. M. D?
Since the Margaret Morrison Divi
sion stands for progress, it welcomes 
suggestions in that line, and last week 
received a very helpful one.
This suggestion comes from one of 
the Westinghouse force, and, if car
ried out, will probably prove of great 
benefit to humanity. Said member 
of the W. F. earnestly advocates the 
introduction of a thorough course in 
Facial Topography. No three girls 
apply the Fresh Country Air (vulgar
ly know as Rouge), at the same 
angle, and the variety, rather than be
ing the spice of life, proves con
fusing to a mere masculine mind.
FORBES FROLIC.
Forbes held a "Haloween Frolic 
on Friday night, where everybody had 
a gay time.
The house was decorated festively 
with a fantastic spider web at. the 
door, Jack OLanterns on all the 
lights, black cats sitting around profusoly.
And foodthere was pumpkin pie, 
apples, cheese, doughnuts and cider in 
jugs!
Everybody had a good time, from 
pinning on the cats tail to the elimi
nation dancethanks to Eleanor McCarson, Ruth Schenk and Ann Light 
and their hard-working committees.
One novelty of the evening was 
"Madge at the piano.
CORDUROY PANTS? ?
The Beau Brummels of the Jun
ior class of Science School received a 
violent jolt at the class meeting held 
last Wednesday when those in the 
group of the sartorially lass pre
cise" suggested that a new class tra
dition be instituted in the wearing of 
corduroy trousers by all memoers of 
the class. Those responsible for tlie 
suggestion maintain that the destina
tion derived from the wearing of such 
apparel would be quite unlimited and 
those of the lirsc-mentioned group 
were inclined sorrowiully to agree. 
The exponents of Society Brand 
argue tnat by such action the class 
as a whole would be cast down to the 
low level of the unwashed multitude 
and maintain that, they as a group 
would never relinquish their right of 
free and permanent creases, a condi
tion impossible in the case of corduroys.
Whether or not the suggestion will 
become a reality depends largely on 
the findings pro and con of a com
mittee appointed to investigate the 
matter and the success they have in 
altering the views of these bitter 
enders."
ARCHITECTS DESIGN COUNTRY 
HOME.
The current Class A Senior prob
lem given under supervision of The 
Beau Arts Institute of Design was 
completed by 19 students of the De
partment of Architecture. The solu
tion consisted of an elevation of the 
main facade; and plans of the house 
and plat. The drawings were pre
sented in color or monotone render
ing.
Mr. I-Iornbostel, who has been patvon of the Department of Architec
ture since its origin, but who is now 
the professor of design, criticised the 
problem. From all indications Tech 
will undoubtedly get away some of the 
honors at the judgment which is held 
in New York, November 16.
The present Junior and Sopohomore 
problems are A Chapel on a Private 
Estate and The Side Entrance to a 
Church, respectively, due for judg
ment December 14.
CAST IRON CUT BY GAS.
The American Welders Society of 
Pittsburgh District, met in the Car
negie Music Hall on Friday evening 
to hear a lecture given by A. S. Kin
sey, professor of shop practice in the 
Stevens Institute of Technology and 
the director of the American Weld
ing Society of Ne wYork City.
He gave a technical lecture on a 
new process in the industrial field, 
that of Cutting Cast Iron by Gas, 
and followed it with a general talk 
or discussion of cutting and welding 
and devoted the rest of his time to a 
i.aneral discussion of cutting and 
welding practices of the day. After 
which lie gave a practical demonstra
tion in the foundry of Carnegie Tech 
n cutting both cast iron and steel by gas.
IND. SOPHS VS. PLEBES.
On October 26th, several erring 
Industries Plebes were tried and 
found wanting. The blood-thirsty 
Sophs, then imprinted on the minds 
(as well as elsewhere) of the Plebes 
some idea of the eternal fitness of 
things.
Punishments were changed off in 
wholesale lots. One especially vicious 
Plebe had his countenance separated 
from the rest of the world by means 
of a wire traslc basket. As he was 
required to wear it over his head, the 
trash basket could be put to no bettei 
use.
A Mechanics demonstration was 
given by the husky wielders of the 
hickory, who conclusively proved that 
Force is equal to Mass times accelera
tion.
MINING AND METALLURGY 
SOCIETY.
The first meeting this year of the 
Mining and Metallurgy. Society was 
held last Wednesday after assembly, 
with Vet. Williams, the newly elected 
president, in charge. Arrangements 
were made for the first evening meet
ing and smoker, to be held tomorrow' 
night. In view of the fact that so 
many specialists in the field of min
ing and metallurgy are available as 
speakers for these evening meetings it 
is probable that they will be held more 
frequently than in former years.
STUDENT VESPERS.
There are meetings and more meet
ings, arent there? But here is a 
place where you can goafter a hard 
days workand rest your tired minds 
with music and quietude. The students 
of P. C. W., Pitt and Tech meet every 
Thursday afternoon at 4:30 in the 
First Baptist Church, corner of Bellefield and Bayard. The program of 
speakers for the year is being ar
ranged by the Cabinet, and will proba
bly include such men as Dr. Charles 
Gilkey of Chicago, John R. Mott, Gov. 
Sproul, Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick.
Next Thursday Dr. Maitland Alex
ander will address the student bodies 
of the three schools. If you go, youll 
never be sorry. Then, give it a try, 
Tech!
HOUSEHOLDS TO HAVE 
MEETING.
All the girls of the Household De
partment are invited to the Practice 
House, Wednesday night, November 
third. The affair will be a very in
formal party and get-together, and 
letters from last years graduating 
class will be read.
X HfrX X X X X X *
Big Student Assembly
Dr. J. Lovell Murray, Secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement of America will make the address. There will be special music.
11 A. M. SUNDAY, NOV. 7th
Okland M. E. Church
Forbes and Boquet Sts.
* * 
* * * 
* 
 *1 ** 
X
Third United 
^Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10-.00 A. M.Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M.and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M.Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages.A cordial welcome to alL
-SINGER PEN QirTsTToZh, PENS REPAIRED:;0^f M5 A R CAPE_
Best fountain pens, Eversharp Pen
cils, and repairing. Halloween Goods. 
Dance Invitations and Programs. Pen
nants and Pillow Tops. Tech Recog
nition and Seal Pins. Rings. Frater
nity Jewelry, etc.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP, 
JENKINS ARCADE
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll'llilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^ 
WEVE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS |
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON !
SHOES AND HOSIERY E 
fl PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 1
MENS BROGUES
$12.00 to $16.00 j
gj We are showing a fine lot of p 
newFall and Winter Broques M 
at prices that are going to 11 
yj make them very popular, in
l CORDOVAN - BOARDED I 
CALF AND SCOTCH 
GRAIN 
OXFORDS AND BOOTS
STETSONS
s OXFORDS AND BOOTS 
$13.00 to $16.00
1IIM1IIIHIIII11MIH
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister
SERVICES:Sunday School9:45 A. M.Morning Worship11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for students, 15c, at 6 oclock.Christian Endeavor7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermon for Head and Heart.A cordial welcome to all students.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN .. 
CHURCH
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues j]
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister
Preaching Service 11 and 8. Sunday school at 10. Christian Endeavor at 7.I
We want the Tech boyB to attend our services and learn to know us as the congregation of Friendly People. A hearty welcome awaits you.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masees: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 11:00A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M.
Pew 68. Middle Aisle, for Tech Student.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profits - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
TRANSITS AND LEVEL8 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE ]
DRAFTING ROOM 
J
Engineers' Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print and Brown Print Papers and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
y I * 'I* *1 *1* *1* I* !* I* I* 'I* 'I* I* *1* *1* I* I *1 'I* * I *1* *1* 'I* I* I* *1 I* I* I* I* I I <' ?! *1* I I I ?!* I* J I* { ]. |
J 4915 Forbes Street
LEF AX
supplies sold by 
A. J. HYND, Junior Mech. 
Locker 2365, Science Bldg. 
Opp. Plebe Locker Room
.:. Phone: Schenley 9211
*1* *1* *1* *1* *1* *1*
.M-**-*#**#***********************-*****************-****-**
BUTTERFLY INN !
AMERICAN AND CHINESE j
RESTAURANT j
3708 FORBES STREET 
We are prepared to furnish the 
finest special and quick, goqd service. 
Lunch, Supper and Sunday Table 
DHote Dinner. Our prices suit all 
students.
PHONE SCHENLEY 9403 - 3360 J f 
HOURS 11 A. M. TO 2 P. M.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER S, 1920.'THE TARTAN.P TMSfifi.RL.AID
Skibos Booked for Hard
Game with Allegheny, Nov. 8
Baldwin, a brother of a Tech halfback of last years team is star 
for the Methodists. Meadville boys regard Tech game big one.
Allegheny Downed Grove
City Saturday,j]3-0gScore
Allegheny College is sending its 
eleven to Pittsburgh next Saturday to 
lock horns with the Tech squad for 
what promises to be., one of the best 
games on the Tartan home schedule. 
Allegheny just put over an unex
expected victory on the strong Grove 
City aggregation and all reports from 
Meadville indicate they are confident 
of making the Plaid fight it out to a 
finish.
Tech holds the advantage by a nar
row margin in games played by the 
schools to date, having won three, lost 
two and tied one. This is Alleghenys 
chance to even up the score and they 
are out to make the most of it.
The Methodists are coached this 
year by Bob Applegram, who hails 
from, the University of Illinois, this 
being his first year at tutoring a col
lege eleven. He won a name for him
self last , year in Western Conference 
circles, and was chosen as a guard on 
the All-Western Conference eleven 
picked by Walter Eckersall, and also 
placed on the second All-American 
team picked by this competent critic. 
Applegram succeeds Hammett at Al
legheny, who dropped coaching to be
come physical director of the Metho
dist institution. He is a big fellow 
and was noted for his fighting spirit 
in every game lie played, a good deal 
of which he has been able to instill 
into his pupils this year. Applegram 
believes in palying hard football, and 
learned how from Zuppke, under
Looking back over half 
a century of banking, 
we like to believe that 
we have kept pace with 
the growth of our cus
tomersand that their 
growth and ours was' 
due in some measure 
to the association.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbuph, Pa.
BELLEFIELD 
1 SHOE REPAIR
Finest Work
OPPOSITE LIBRARY
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Beit Meals at reasonable prices
3719 Forbes St. Oakl;
k=':;':iii:iu!iiiin!ii!iniiiiiiui!Si:Biniii]Diiiin!nfiiuiDii:iiin!iiii!iDUiiitiiUiii]iiiiiuiBiiuiii[
DO YOU DANCE?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
Jacques Dancing Academy i
Craig and Forbes 
Schenley 8120
NATIONAL RESTAURANT 
H. Warner, Prop.
"Oaklands Most Popuar Eating Place"
114-116-118 Atwood St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
ilililiffllLlffill'IKiilMfflUllIM
LCH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. < raig and Forbes
PRED FARGEL, Proprietor 
*rest and Best Laundry 
Agency
whom he played for four years. He 
had a good deal of success coaching 
army teams on the border and in 
France during the war.
Allegheny has made an excellent 
record this year in the four games 
played, tieing two, losing and winning 
one each. Thiel and Colgate were 
held to even scores, and Dickinson 
won from the Meadville boys by one 
touchdown. They reached their stride 
last week though and defeated Grove 
City 3-0, although they were out
weighed by 35 pounds to the man. 
Forward passing and .a fast running 
attack have enabled them to make this 
line showing to date. _The captain of the team is a brother 
of Baldwin, who played half for Tech 
last year. He is playing an end, with 
Nelson holding down the other ex
tremity of the ine. TJhere are several 
Pittsburgh men on the team, Miller at 
right half coming from Pittsburgh 
Academy. He does the kicking and 
runs the ends in gopd style. The 
team ds a whole is very light, averag
ing only 163 pounds, but makes up for 
this in.speed. The line from tackle 
to taclde averages 175 pounds. Six 
letter men from last'year are back, all 
of whom have made a place on this 
years team.
Allegheny will probably line up as 
follows: Baldwin, captain, left end;
Murphy, left tackle; F. Miller, left 
guard; Dundon, center; Loomis, right 
guard; Cramer, right tackle; Nelson, 
light end; Morley, quarter; Graham, 
loft half; Miller,1 right half; Cunning
ham, fullback.
ICE t. W. l\,0Sh WILL UUUH
MWul
STARTS NEXT WEEK
Basketball practice for the 1921 
team starts this week at the gym, with 
Captain Hammann in charge of the 
squad. For the first few weeks it will 
consist mainly of passing the ball and 
shooting baskets and to limber up 
stale muscles. Basketball Coach hi
dings will be busy with his Freshmen football team for another month, and 
will not be able to personally coach 
the cagcvnen until the first of next 
month, when the basketball men on 
the football squad will be able to be
gin practice also.
Prospects for a successful season 
are brighter this year than they have 
been for some time, Captain C'arey 
and Moon being the only veterans of 
last year who are not back. Lynn, 
Allen, Gibson and Godden of the 1920 
squad will be on hand in addition to 
Captain Hammann. McCaw, Mc
Kenna and Anderson of the Plebe 
team are expected to be out and will 
give Coach Iddings plenty of material 
to draw from. Several freshmen have 
entered school this fall who had excel
lent records in high school basketball 
and should give Tech a strong Plebe 
team this year.
The schedule of out of town games 
is not available at present, but sevr 
eral excellent trips have been ar
ranged for, taking in schools in the 
eastern part of the state and New 
York. The list of home games fol
lows :Dec. 27Westinghouse.
Dec. 30Yale.
Jan. 10W. & J.
Jan. 22W. Ya. Wesleyan.
Feb. 3Grove City.
Feb. 5Geneva.
Feb. 11Allegheny.
Feb. 23Buffalo.
Feb. 25Georgetown.
Feb. 20Lafayette.
Mar. 3Bucknell.
PLAID SWIMMING TEAM
PLAID TENNIS TEAM HAS AN ENLARGED SCHEDULE
HOCKEY, ITS HISTORY 
FUTURE AT TECH
Tennis at Carnegie Tech was 
placed on the highest pinnacle of suc
cess by last years team, consisting 
of Captain Stockslager, Davis, Beatty 
and Marshall. These four men swept overything, with one exception, before 
them. The one exception was the 
University of Michigan, which team 
won the championship of the Big 
l'en Conference. Theres another .side 
o the story, toowe believe that if 
vve had had Michigan down in our 
jwn back-yard the result would 
have been diiferent. We won the 
Western Pennsylvania . Inter-Colegiate championship', defeated the 
udders of the New York State cham
pionship, Syracuse University'. This 
.s a reputation that means some big 
.natches for us this year. It further 
.neans that since such a reputation is 
^urs, it is our duty to uphold itnay, 
not only uphold it, but to make it 
even better. We have our opportun
ity this year. Michigan is quite anx
ious and willing to meet us in Pitts
burgh, and surely Tech. is delighted 
to entertain such a distinguished ten
nis team. On this team will be West
brook, ranked 55th in the national 
list. This match, will be our biggest 
home match. Besides Michigan, Penn 
State, West Virginia, Wash-Jeff, Alle
gheny and Grove City will appear on 
the home courts. There are two east
ern trpis planned. One to take four 
days, when we will meet the Univer
sity oJ: Pennsylvania, Princeton, West 
Point and Yale. The other trip will 
include Syracuse, Colgate and Cornell. 
Playing with Syracuse will be LaGros, who was ranked 15th in the 
junior national ranking. LeGros will 
be remembered as the Syracuse won
der, who came to Tech and defeated 
our incomparable Jack Beatty, play
ing No. 1 for Tech. On Cornell will 
be Reed, the man who played McEllroy, in the finals for the Western 
Pennsylvania Pennsylvania champion
ships. This is a most ambitious 
schedule and will require a mighty 
good team to run through success
fully, but Manager Ravenscroft, the 
tennis boss, feels that Tech will 
hold up the tennis reputation in great 
style.
Another good reason why Tech 
should continue her good work in ten
nis is the coach. Colonel Brooks is 
an old West Point star, a good friend 
of Tilden of the [Davis cup team, and 
is, if '.anything, over-supplied with, 
tennis knowledge. Too much credit 
cannot be given to him for past suc
cessful tennis teams. It would do a 
prospective tennis man a load of good 
to go up to Col onel Brooks office, in 
the R. O. T. C. office, Industries 
Building, and have a good talk with 
him. He will b^ found to be a most 
congenial man to talk to, to cany 
your troubles tothe writer knows, 
because he has helped him thrash out 
many a troubleand a good friend. 
Yes, all you tennis men, make your
self known to Colonel Brooks!
Through Colonel Brooks the tennis 
team received an invitation from the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association to see 
the Davis cup players in action. It 
was a treat indeed, and the thanks 
of the team are certainly due Colonel'
With the football season well under 
way and winter months coming on, a 
few enthusiasts of school are again 
awakening to the call of that fascin
ating sport, hockey. Hockey is by no 
means a new sport at Tech, for In the 
early days of our school she gained 
much fame for her surperb hockey teams, meeting in those times the 
best teams in the country. She fast 
made a name for herself by her many 
victories.A review of the past seasons is al
most necessary in view of the fact 
that few students of Tech realize 
what splendid work was done by Tech 
teams in the past.
The first Tech hockey team was 
formed in 1905, and was captained by 
Mason and this team at once brought 
fame to our institution by winning the intercollegiate championship of West
ern Pennsylvania. They also played 
our rival on the hill and twice de
feated her. Penn also was a victim 
of Captain Masons fast squad of 
skaters.In 1906 the team captained .by 
Charles Overend also met with great 
success. Although defeated by Yale, 
they made a splendid showing against 
Toronto and Pennsylvania.
In 1907 and 1908, J. S. Charles' for 
two successive years captained the 
team, but the team was not as fa
mous as preceding teams because in 
190S professional hockey was intro
duced at Duquesne Garden. This 
team was composed of professional 
players from Canada and other parts 
of the country. Interest in the pro
fessional game soon detracted from 
the attention the public paid the col
lege teams and from then on hockey 
at Tech was on a decline. Although 
in 1910 we put an excellent team on 
the rink, captained by Dornberger, 
and having as its star Allen Bright, present registrar of the institution.
Since 1910 hockey as a major sport 
at Tech has been dropped, and never 
revived. But this year the way has 
been paved for another hockey team 
at Tech. fTfhe chances of a good professional team to represent Pittsburgh 
are not so bright, and with the Garden 
available, we might expect some real 
results.
Everything that is possible is being 
done to get up a real hockey team to represent Tech this season. Graduate 
Manager Haaren is in communication 
with such Canadian schools as Queen, 
McGill and Toronto, as. well as eastern 
and western colleges in our own coun
try, trying to get some information as 
to the prospect of a hockey schedule. 
In the meantime shooting and team 
practices are being held every after
noon at the gym anu on Saturday 
morning the prospective players will 
report to the ice at Duquesne Garden. The promoters of the team hope that 
some real support will be given the 
hockey men this year.
Enthusiasm tor the proposed swim
ming team is running very high. This 
is clearly shown by the number of 
men that have turned their names in 
to Mr. Haaren. To date twenty-nine 
have signified their intention and in
terest in such an undertaking by 
Tech. Many of these have notable 
records in swimming, while a greater 
number of novices at the.gilme, who 
enjoy the sport for sports sake only. 
But among the latter class are many 
men who are really capable.swimmers 
and divers who have only tu be placed 
uttder the direction of a capable couch 
in order that their natural -abilities 
might be brought out. To, be able to, 
swm, merely SWIM, is naturally an 
acquirement gained by all men. To be 
able; to swim WELL is the natural 
ability of a large number of (lie above. 
But to be able to swim well enough 
to compete in races against others is 
not the ability of many, but of lew. 
This ability is brought out only 
through hard work, close adherence 
to training rules, and under the care
ful- and criticizing eye of a good in
structor. ...
ln: Mr. Moses, our new physical, cul
ture director, we .have .a sjyiinming-ii^ 
structor of par excellence. Mr. Moses 
held the place of physical culture di
rector at. the Worcester (Mass.) Y. M. 
C. A. before coming to Tech. At Chis 
place Mr. Moses coached a swimming 
team which while it did not win any 
world's championships, went through 
i very successful season.- The fact 
that this team did not win any worlds 
championships surely cannot be placed 
on his shoulders, but rather that lie 
did not have such material as It takes 
to win such eevnts. This is because 
as. said before, swimming is more a cas of natural ability, and it is the 
duty of a coach to only develop that 
natural ability to a point of greater 
perfection. As a man, Mr. Moses is 
that type who everybody cannot help 
but,like. He is one of the fellows, one who is ever willing to get into the 
ganje with the fellows. He is a hail 
fellow, well met, sort. He is in 
for. anything the follows want. In 
other words, he is just the sort of a 
fellow we need to coach our swim
ming team.
There are many reasons why Car
negie Tech should put out a' swimming 
team. Foremost among these is the' 
fact that all tlrst-class colleges, 
schjools and universities are beginningto have swimming teams1. And'Surely- T'ejsli is the very best, of all colleges.'* 
The national educational contniittee1 
palped Carnegle{ Tech as second oiviy 
to Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nologywe fail to seeit that way. ACJ-' 
cording tci our way  I! thinking, we aril' 
FIRST, and VI. I. T. conies second to 
us.! Furthermore 'Pitt. has a swim
ming team, and a good one, too. There-, 
fore I claim Tech should have ono too 
we cant permit our neighbor across, 
Lh<3 way to get ahead of us in ath
letics. Not by a Jug-full! Again,' 
swimming, as a developer of physical 
beauty is unequalled. Football glvos' 
to a man that, rugged, Knotty muscles. 
Such a type of muscles Is likely to 
lmVe cramps in swimming. Baseball 
isla good developer of all muscles in 
on,es body, blit at the samo time it 
falls to give that symmetrical develop
ment thaljswlmmlng does. Track over
develops ones legs, and Is quite likely, 
to, develop what Is known as nth-, 
letic heart. Tennis gives a good 
symmetrical build, but leaves your left arm (or right arm, If you are, a. lefthanded player) entirely undeveloped, 
while swimming on the other hand has 
the happy tendency to -develop every 
single muscle in a person's body, and 
symmetrical. Fact is, swimming Is ad
mitted to be the very best developer 
of one^s physical self, in. that it pro
ducs a', symmetrical' build; a Swiih- ming build ispretty tobeliod-p-notic 
Annette Kellerman. Notice any good 
swimmer, and take note olf his lithe, 
and proportionate build, of Ills muscles 
muscles of the type that never know 
what a cramp is, muscles that do not 
tire quickly, muscles that respond to 
any demand. And again, what is more 
exhilerating than a nice plunge into a 
cool pool of water, a fast, swim of 
about 100 yards, a good nib-down, and 
a clean outfit of clothes to put on 
afterward.
The above is why Carnegie Tech 
should promote a swimming team.
Next week in this column there will, 
be a call for men. Next week we 
will announce that we have some 
place to swim.
PLEBES PLAY INDIANA 
L NOV. 6,fIE
The Tech Freshman game with 
Mercersburg carded for last Satur
day was called off during* the week 
on account of injuries to the Fresh
man squad. Capt. Bob Smith. McPliee and several other of Coach hi
dings best men would not have been 
able to play and Mercersburg con
sented to cancel the game.
. Next Saturday Iddings will match 
lys.Freshmen with' the strong Indiana 
Normal eleven, who last week held 
the Syracuse Freshmen to a score of 
1-1 to 7. Indiana can always be 
counted upon to put out a strong 
team, while the Plebes liavC also been 
showing the old Tech light, so the 
game should be close and hard-fought 
all the waySome of the men on Iddings squad 
have been showing up exceptionally 
well lately, and will make the men on 
this years varsity step for places next 
year. Capt. Bob Smith has been play
ing an excellent-game in the backfield, 
as well as showing himself a good 
leader. He was unfortunate in inj.uring his side so severely he has,not 
been in shape to play for the last 
two weeks.
Donley has been playing a stellar 
game at left end, and were it not for 
the fact that' Steffen has an excess of 
ends this year on the varsity, wuold 
undoubtedly be placed on the first 
squad. He has shown* himself a 
mighty hard end to take out and al
ways' breaks up the interference if lie 
doesnt stop the man with the ball.
Bits o Plid
By S. P. Smith
it has been the rule for many years for large schools to open their foot
ball season with teams from much 
smaller Institutions', over which they 
could gain an easy victory, and to re
gard thesb games as merely practice 
sessions. Small colleges seem ovei 
rcad to engage in these contests from which they gain practically 
nothing and are liable to lose much. 
T.hey run the risk of serious Injury to 
their players,-who usually are not In as good condition as,the larger I,cam 
lu jhalj/.tlme or the year, and the dof<?at' Thti'y 'sustain' 'has a yu'y'! ball 
oITee-t. -upon t he morale of the', team 
Thoygii/tn at- inost a. small amount ot 
n'otjerlety.
Iv-er since the-Yale game the Tech 
student,body lias been asking what we 
gained, by  playing the' New Haven 
toanVjand the fooling has been grow 
lifg that the school was bonefited In 
no way. AI.). Overend, president of 
the Athletic Association, lias the loi 
lowing to fiay: The Toc.h players are 
not together long enough by the first 
of October to play a strong opponent 
and again ip eleven like Yale puts 
forth its best efforts for there are so
BRUMBAUGH, TECH FULLbACK ALL-AROUND MAN
The big hole at fullback in Techs 
new backtield is being filled in first 
class fashion by Brumbaugh, who 
played a sterling game against Le- iugh Saturday. Throwing his 160 pounds at the-line, time after time 
he went thru for large gains, making 
!i hole when lie couldn't find one.
Brumbaugh is a product of Tarentuin High School, where he was prom
inent in school activities and had four 
years of varsity football and two of 
basketball to his credit. Graduating 
iu 1917, he entered the S. A. T. C. at 
the University of Pittsburgh. A 
course in Chemical Engineering at 
Tech enticed him away from our 
neighbor over the valley and he enlered Carnegie with the Freshman 
Glass of 1Q19.
Last year Brumaugh played at full
back for the Plebes and with a light 
line in front of him always gained 
consistently. He is a *140 man in 
(rack and can step out in fast style 
n a broken field. When it was known 
hat Loomis.would not be back in 
school this year, Brumbaugh was 
Steffens first clioicc for the vacancy 
and lie has completely fulfilled the 
expectations of his coach.
Brumbaugh took the trip to the 
Penn State Relays last spring and 
later won his letter in track. In ad
dition to his athletic work, 'Brum
baugh is a first class student, hitting 
math like he, does a line for all As. 
We look for him to have three more 
banner years at Tech, both in athetics and studies.
TECH FLYING CLUH.
There will bo a mooting to rescusitate the Tech Flying Club, which was 
organized last year, in the Union at 1 
oclock Thursday, Novomber *1. Any
one who has had Hying exporionco is 
invited to attend. This organization 
needs all last, years members at 
school, and any new men who are in
terested. Otllcors for tho coming year 
will bo clectod at this time.
many players striving for places on 
tho team that they play tholr hardest. 
The result is a team of Techs calib  comes homo badly battered up. Lutei 
In tho season a game would bo all 
right. Wo think that Mr. Ovorend 
has stated the matter In a nutshol. 
and bol love this Is the soul. Imeni, of a 
majority of, Tech mon.? 1 ? ?
Allegheny was anothor surprlso to 
Grove City.* * i>
Although outweighed 15 pounds to tho man, |T!eoli's next, opponont 
pushed Clrovcv City Into defeat.? * *
W. & .1. has been riding along t.lii: 
soasen at an easy pace; Ju.it. win, th 
soonis to satisfy tho Presidents no
bili. watch Ilio Pitt gamo.* * *
Tech again moots Lthlgh on Nov m 
ber ( at South Bethlehem In a cion country run.
Brooks and the P. A. A. for their 
kindness and interest.
Prosp'ects for next years team are 
good. Captain Jonny Iiarkness is 
back on the job, and around him a 
mighty good team will be built. Be
sides Iiarkness, Coplay, Schmertz, 
Roger Marshall, Brosky, Hauser, 
Simpson are back again and are going 
to give the newcorhers a good fight for 
a place on the team.
Lehigh's pet opponent is Lafayette. 
You ought to have heard em yell 
when it was announced: Pitt 14, La
fayette 0.
Found on Campus, October 29th, a 
fountain pen. Call at Dean Tarbells, 
Office.* * *
LostSilver Eversharp Pencil, in. 
Students Club .Room, -Industries; 
.Wednesday, October 27, abqut 4:30 
P. M. Return to -Dean -of. Men's. Of-, 
nee.. ; .* * * .
Found on Campus, October 29th, a 
cap. Cali at Dean Tarbells Office.
nw
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day about the 
large number of her cubs.
How many cubs do you bring into the 
world at one time? she asked the LIONESS.
Only ONE, replied the Lionessbut its 
a LION.
MURADS COST 20 CENTS for a BOX 
of 10 BUT THEYRE MURAD"
MURADS would be lower priced if we lefl 
or part of the 100 ' I urkish tobaccos of tlie pi1 
test varieties grownor if we substituted info 
of .Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt be MURADS they 
Foxes!
Judge for YourselfSjiocial attention 'it'ciilled
to Murad 20a in Tin Boxes

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1920.
ALUMNI NEWS
REPORT OF CAP AND GOWN
COMMITTEE, CLASS OF 1920
Receipt
221 caps and gown...................$552 50
Expenditures
185 cups and gown rented 
from Cotrcll & Leonard @
.$2.50 ..........................................$402 50-
HO caps and gowns rented 
from Esser Brothers @
.$2.25 ................................................... 07 50
Balance .................................................. 22 50
$552 50
At an informal meeting of the com
mittee this fall it was decided that 
since a refund to the members of the 
Class of 1920 would be impractical, 
the balance should be turned over to 
the Varsity Clan. This action has 
been taken.JOHN W. TOWNS.
REMEMBER THE DATE.
On the first Monday of each month, 
Board of Governors Meeting, Alumni 
Association, Margaret Morrison Divi
sion.On the first Thursday of each 
month, Clan Dinner, 0:80 oclock, Ful
ton Cafeteria, Fulton Building.
On the second Monday of each 
month, Board of Governors Meeting, 
Alumni Association, Division of
Science and Engineering, Alumni Of
fice, Central Building.
On the,second Wednesday of each 
month, 3oard of Directors Meeting, 
Alumni Federation, Alumni Office; 
Central' Building.
SCIENCE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
The following officers and board 
members are requested to be present 
at 7:80 oclock Monday night, Novem
ber 8, in the Alumni Office, Central 
Building:
R. W. Wilson, '15; M. L. Orr, 17;
E. S. Raugh, 'J5; G. L. Til brook, '15;
F. Gaston, '09; F. J. Nuttall, '19; J. J. 
Doherty, S.; Thor Engstrom, S.; F. T. 
Floyd, 'J5; E. F. Hirsch, 20.
Please notify G. L. Til brook at 
Schenley 2000 in case you are unable 
to attend and arrange, before calling, 
for a proxy to attend in your place.
PITTSBURGH CLAN.
Ever body look out for Clan meet
ing in Fulton Cafeteria, Thursday, 
November 4, at 0:80 P. M.
Look who will be thereCoach 
Steffen, Doc" Marks, Captain Godden 
and his team. Come and hear about 
the Lehigh game.
The meetings success depends upon 
you.J. W. BATMAN, 
Secretary.
FRANK BROTHERS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
Near Forty-Eighth Street, New York 
Boots, Slippers, Hosiery for Men,
Wome nand Children
PITTSBURGH, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGO Michigan Blvd. 
Bldg. Cornar WuHhintfton St.
ST. LOUISArcado Building
NEW HAVEN WASHINGTONHotel Taft Woodward Bldg.
BOSTON 0,,PLittle Building SAN FRANCISCO
CLEVELAND Whitney BuildingAthletic Club Bldg. 133 Geary Street
LINTON TRUNK AND BAG CO.
Manufacturers 
BRIEF CASES HAND BAGS
BOSTON BAGS TRUNKS
SUIT CASES LAUNDRY BAGS
10 per cent discount to students.
943 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH, PA.
ATTENTION STUDENTS j
Laboratory Aprons
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY BOOKS  ; 
Banners, Pillow, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS |
FORBES QUALITY SHOP i
3812 FORBES STREET, COR. BOQUET
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Baum and Mellwood 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
fim.*#*****************#******#****#** **************
BATTERY
Exi de
SERVICE
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and Enlarged |
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME,
FOOD 
Served at betft prices 
CIGARS CANDY
it*************************
ECHR
OLLAR,
CLAN BANQUET AFTER LEHIGH GAME, IN PHILLY
The Philridelphla Clan was host at 
a dinner-banyuel at Die Arcadia in 
Philadelphia Saturday night. Mem
ber ol' New York, Harrisburg and 
Pittsburgh clan were present, along 
with JJr. A. A. Hammers eh lag, Dean 
Cllifoid B. Connelly, Walter Steffen, 
Prank I-Iaartn and "Red'' Godden.
The meeting was shortbut it was 
snappy. Those who were at the game 
at South Bethlehem didnt get in until 
about 8 oclock and the last train for 
Pittsburgh pulled away at 11:10, so 
"two-mlnute* speeches were resorted 
to.
L. E. Exline, 0i), Sr. head of the 
Philadelphia clan was toastmaster and 
after welcoming the guests and other' 
members, promised the support and 
co operation ol the Philadelphia clan 
lu anything proposed by the. athletic 
oflicials,
Put the keynote speech of the eve
ning was sounded by Prank Haaren in 
ills short talk. He stated that every 
clansman, henceforth and hereafter, 
was to acL in the capacity of a scout, 
for the athletic board and through 
their efforts induce to Tech sufficient material to make all branches of 
athletics strong enough to compete 
with other lirst class schools and uni
versities. And Dr. Hammerschlag 
immediately stated that any team 
Tech would have would not only be 
noted for its prowess on the field but 
also for its work in school as the high 
educational standard of Tech would 
be upheld, if it cost all the athletic 
prestige to make with a team of non* 
school going athletes.
Jn addition Dr. Hammerschlag 
touched on the severing of relations 
between Tech and Pitt and stated hi 
hoped both schools would again meet 
on the7 field. .Just because I made a 
speech at Allegheny College about 
professionalism  in school athletics, 
which was misinterpreted by Pitt, and 
just because our boys raised a flag on 
Pitts field and because some one cut 
corners in a cross country run, hardly 
seems sufficient reason to deprive the 
sport lovers of college athletics in that big city of ours from being deprived 
of seeing them pitted against one an
other, said thei Tech head.
Coach Wally 'Steffen responded to a 
prolonged appeal of the grads and spoke hopefully of the future of the 
Tech football squad. "Starting with 
but two veterans this year, Tech has 
made great headway and as nearly all 
members of this years team have two 
more years in school, next season 
should see an experienced eleven on 
the field which will be able to surpass 
any former record of the Schenley institution," said the coach.
. Cap!;. "Red Godden wound up the 
banquet with how ho felt when lv>- 
played his first football game, explaining why an unexperienced team for
gets what the coach tells them.
Among those present were: A. J. 
Korin, W. M. Burke, G. L. BackonstosB, O. E. Brcnot, R. E. Vernon, O. 
M. Olsen, It. A. Fisher, Marian Kerr, 
Mr. and Mrs. R. Vernon, Abrigail 
Kerr, B. D. Elsenbery, II. Styoi, C .13. Connelly, H. C. Godden, A. A. Hammorselling, Mr, and Mrs. L. E. Exline, 
Wnlfor l\ Steffen, Mr. and Mrs. R. B, 
Coldren, .lean Horigan, Gordon I. 1?. 
Wright, L, M. Newell, (J. L. Tillbrok, 
Ifithol Jones, Mr. and Mrs. C. .1. Lappley, IQmma Kollar,, G. W. Gibbs, 
Rlfehio Lowrlo, Arch II. Cowon, Lyle 
Lindonnan, A. 10. Ball, W. II. Nor
man, Harry Schwab, It. N. Horton, A. N'. Heyl, Ueri Munhall, Paul W. Emmol, T. .1. Spencer and lilimbeth M. Yogh.
will soon come to pass that jazz bands 
will be substituted for the solemn pipe 
organs in our churches, whence it will 
probably follow that the elders will 
perform a Terpsichorean cheek-tocheek with the collection plates, while 
the sermon will be interpreted with a 
suppleepinal chord. Needless to say, 
attendance would be increased.* * *
Youve been to me a perfect dear, 
Youve meant the world to me 
Youve put your arms around my neck 
And sat upon my knee.
But listen, dear, dont tease me so, 
And why cant you begin 
To act the same as other girls,
And let me kick your shin.* * *
A course has been added to the cur
riculum this year, the purpose of 
which is to broaden the student and 
give him a more tolerant view of life. 
While the tuition is a bit steep, every 
one is urged to carry this subject at 
least one year. Through the benefic
ent cooperation of the City of Pitts
burgh, adequate facilities have been 
rovided for the success of this course. 
The faculty is as follows:
Professor McDougall.................Dean
Professor Nixon.......................
Instructor in Girlatomy
Professor Ilomer Smith...........
Instructor in Raishellogy
Professor Ritten House...............
Instructor in Sportonomics 
Classes meet any afternoon or eve
ning in the Academy or the Duquesne 
Gardens.
--------------------
ANSWERED
Greeting's 1
The Anvil again takes its place as 
one of the foremost molders of popu
lar opiijion, and we advise any readers 
suffering from literary afflictions to 
let Nature take her course. If you 
push a pulsating pen, send in your 
brain children.* * *
Autumn Studies
I see her now in vision fair 
As in the summer day.
The sunshine seems to kiss her hair 
With all its golden rays.
The saucy twinkle in her eye 
Still comes back to me
Equilibrium, force and torque, 
Integrate tween y and z.
Budlike lips of cherry hue,
Sylphlike form divine
Ionic substance in solution,
Change to minus sign.
Hydraulics, sound and entropliy 
The cutest little nose,
Graphic statics, steam injectors 
Her cheeks are like the rtfse.
I hear the tinkle of her laugh, 
Rotary blower fan,
Steel and concrete, beam deflection 
I certainly like Ann, m in *
Jazz
Last Wednesday's general assembly 
gave us a taste of jazz musicand 
what is it? If seems to be a species 
of music in a state of rebellion 
against the general order of things. It 
is produced by double jointed, long 
winded musicians, who give an excel
lent: interpretation of a dish of jollo 
gone Bolsheviki, and who jump on the 
notes with the same unabashed joy as 
a chorus girl into a liollo-Royce. It
Is Industry Alumni Asleep?
WELL SAY NOT!
The Association has been completely reorganized and now have Officers and a Board of Governors that are full of pep and are pushers for Tech. They are going to do things. So it is up to you to show your hand.
Now lets get the old gang together and show Tech some pep. Tech needs you. Send two dollars to J. W. Batman, Secretary, Care C. I. T., as a pledge that you are on the job this year. This entitles you to the Alumnus and Tartan until June 30, 1921. Get behind the Alumni and get some members. Graduates and all former students, who were at Tech a year are eligible.
ACT NOW ! !PAY THOSE DUES ! !
NipWhats the difference be
tween a dance and a dawnce.
TuckAbout four bucks.Michi
gan Gargoyle.
ITe is a lalce philosopher who some
times will not reverse his own judg 
ments.
Have you ever noticedwhen you 
talk with .people, they always begin 
telling you one of three things: 
Theyre terribly busy, their trou
bles are unbearable, or scandal. 
Seldom does a person talk to you con
fidently, joyfully about something of 
general interest. Some are afraid to 
talk of anything but serious business 
for fear you may doubt their great
ness. Some just naturally have that 
troubled line"Oh, I just dont know 
what Im going to do, and still an
other class would walk for miles just 
for the joy of spreading some tale 
that theyre not sure is true, but
they heard that Mrs.--------- If you
are in one of these classes, get out 
of it. Dont carry an artificial poise. 
Dont impose upon people by making 
them listen to all your troubles. Dont 
pollute the minds of friends by load
ing them with a lot of scandal. If 
you know a person intimately say, 
Howdy, not I-Iow do you do. Talk 
of bright things, the football game, 
the theater, the dance, your pleasant 
side of lifeanything, just so its clean, 
frank, live and interesting. Learn 
how to laugh  develop a sense of 
humor. Be genuine and real. Live 
your troubles alone, endure them, 
meet them, and help yourself to over
come them by the inspiration and di
version of joyful confident conversa
tion, and when the days of real trial 
come you will be able to say:
Through all my tears 
Slightly laugh 
To cover up 
The other half 
Of this queer life,
Its dull half-tone 
I like to hear it
All alone.
And joy shall choke 
My voice with glee, 
Een though my heart 
Is aching me.
Bill doesnt say this himself, but 
we believe he feels the same way. 
Editor.
THE HONOR SYSTEMWhy dont we have an honor system 
at Tech, or at least, why dont they 
ask us if we want one? Is every one 
afraid to take the first step? Prob
ably the immediate need of such a 
system is not realized by the present 
student government. Wholesale and 
consistent cribbing furnished the 
means by which quite a few men 
passed last quarters finals. Some of 
these men learned this at Tech. The 
attitude of the faculty is partly re
sponsible for this condition of affairs. 
In some instances, where the instruc
tor trusted the men, and left the room 
during an exam., the same men 
showed they could be gentlemen.
As a suggestion, the system in use 
at W. & J. involves the signing of 
the following:
PLEDGES
1. I pledge my honor as a gentle
man that during this examination I 
did not give nor receive assistance.
2. I pledge my honor as a gentle
man that during this examination I 
was not aware of any one having 
given or received assistance.
Signed................................................
The second pledge might very well 
be omitted, putting each man on his 
own responsibility. Cant some action 
be taken before the end of this quar
ter. Lets tie that red tape to a cir
cus balloon.
KUPPENHEIMER
CLOTHCRAFTClothes
Jageinan & Spicket
The Mens Store ol East End
6121 Penn Ave., - East End
ow Large is an Atom ?
A
TOMS are so infinitesimal that to be seen under the most powerl ful microscope one hundred million must be grouped. The atom 
used to be the smallest indivisible unit of matter. When the X-Rays 
and radium were discovered physicists found that they were.dealing 
with smaller things than atomswith particles they call electrons.
Atoms are built up of electrons, just as the solar system is built up 
of sun and planets. Magnify the hydrogen atom, says Sir Oliver 
Lodge, to the size of a cathedral, and an electron, in comparison, will 
be no bigger than a bird-shot.
Not much substantial progress can be made in chemical and elec
trical industries unless the action of electrons is studied. For that 
reason the chemists and physicists in the Research Laboratories of the 
General Electric Company are as much concerned with the very con
stitution of matter as they are with the development of new inven
tions. They use the X-Ray tube as if it were a machine-gun; for by 
its means electrons are shot at targets in new ways so as to reveal more 
about the structure of matter.
As the result of such experiments, the X-Ray tube has been greatly 
improved and the vacuum tube, now so indispensable in radio com
munication, has been developed into a kind of trigger device for guid
ing electrons by radio waves.
Years may thus be spent in what seems to be merely a purely 
theoretical investigation. Yet nothing is so practical as a good 
theory. The whole structure of modern mechanical engineering is 
reared on Newtons laws of gravitation and motiontheories stated 
in the form of immutable propositions.
In the past the theories that resulted from purely scientific re
search usually came from the university laboratories, whereupon the 
industries applied them. The Research Laboratories of the General 
Electric Company conceive it as part of their task to explore the un
known in the same spirit, even though there may be no immediate 
commercial goal in view. Sooner or later the world profits by such 
research in pure science. Wireless communication, for example, was 
accomplished largely as the result of Herzs brilliant series of purely 
scientific experiments demonstrating the existence of wireless waves.
G ee  ratfSlEIl  tori c
General OfficeSchenectady, N.Y.
