j GIRLS BASKET BALL 
!I INDIANA NORMAL 
j FIELD HOUSE, FRI., 8:00
GAMBOL OF GUILDS 
UNION 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
VOL. XVII. NO. 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1923
ACTING-PRESIDENT DR. BAKER 
ELECTED SCHOOL HEAD BY THE 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES ON FEB. 5
G. H. SMITH SCHOLARSHIPS 
NOW OPEN TO JUNIORS
OF ENGINEERING SCHOOL
Was Director,.'of the Jacob Tome In
stitute For Ten Years. Came 
Here in 1919
FORMER SCHOOL SECRETARY
 At a meeting of tlie Carnegie Board of Trustees on Tuesday,' February 
5, Dr. Baker, the Acting President of Carnegie, was elected to the presidency. 
Dr. Baker is the second president of this Institution and succeeds Dr. A. A. 
Hamersclilag, whose resignation took effect July 1, 1922.
At the foundation of this Institution*:* 
in 1903 Dr. Hamersclilag was made 
President, and he successfully filled 
this position until the day of his res
ignation.
During this period under Dr. Hamerschlags guidance the modest class Active ^ Alumni Members
Eligible to Attend
Honorary Societies 
To Hold Dance Feb. 21
DR. BAKER
rooms, which comprised the school 
at its start, were expanded into num
bers and departments, reaching at 
last their present status of a great 
technical university worthy of our 
city and country.
For . three years previous to the res 
ignation of Dr. Hamersclilag, Dr. 
Baker was secretary of the Institu
tion and did some very commendable 
work in co-operating with the Presi
dent.
And now the election of Dr. Baker 
to the presidency of this Institution 
by the Board of Trustees has been 
most highly commended by the stu
dents, faculty and prominent men. of 
this city. Although Dr. Baker has 
been hard pressed by his duties in his 
official capacity, he has always kept 
in close touch with the faculty and 
students.
He is widely known in the East as 
an educator, speaker and contributor 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Six Hundred Kaper 
At Post-Ball Dance
Other Schools Able to Enjoy 
Egyptian Atmosphere
Over three hundred couples at
tended the Post Ball Dance in the 
Arts Foyer, Saturday evening. Ev. 
Hughes with his Collegiate Six start
ed the ball rolling at nine o'clock.
The decorations were the same &s 
those used at the ball the previous 
night, lending an [Egyptian atmos
phere to the dance. Even though the 
multi-colored costumes were lacking 
the subdued green and blue lights 
played on the ladies gown and gave a 
very pleasant effect.
Those who desired a real taste of 
Egyptian surroundings were given a 
treat when the doors of the exhibi
tion room were thrown open for 
dancing.
One would think they were really 
on the desert on account of the sandy 
condition of the floor and the tem
perature of the room, combined with 
the fact that the music could not be 
heard very distinctly. An ideal des
ert scene.
Refreshments consisted of punch 
and cakes served in the north alcove, 
and heartily received by the crowd.
The committee consisted of Vic 
Stromquist. chairman; E. P. Couse 
and Dick Barnhart.
Debating Club Meeting
Scheduled Thursday
The Debating Club is negotiating 
for a debate with Pitt sometime in 
April.
There will be a meeting of the 
club in the Y. M. . A. club room 
next Thursday evening, at which the 
subject to be debated upon will be 
laid under discussion.
This event will be a big and im
portant one, and all men who wish 
to try out for the team are urged to 
come to Thursdays meeting.
So far there has not been much en
thusiasm shown in regards to this 
club, and it is hoped that the coming 
event will stir up more interest 
among the students.
The eve of Washingtons Birthday 
will witness one of the most* delight
ful occasions held this year in the 
Carnegie Union. This affair is the 
annual frolic of those who are mem
bers of the various honorary socie
ties of Carnegie Tech. As previously 
announced,- the Collegiate Six ha3 
been engaged for the occasion, and 
everything will contribute to the en
joyment of those concerned.
The Intei^Honorary is a little differ
ent from the ordinary dance. First, 
it is the Honoraries own dance; aud 
to make the affair doubly attractive, 
the committee on decorations has 
been working on a scheme of interior 
design which, while simple in char
acter, will be pleasing to the eye 
and in harmony with the nature of 
the event.
Those who may attend are all ac
tive. and alumni members of Tau 
Beta Pi, Alpha Tau, Tau Sigma Del
ta. Sphinx (now Mortar Board), Dra
gon, Delta Skull, Alpha. Alpha Nu, 
ind Druid. A large attendance from 
among former members oL these or
ganizations is looked for. Membeis 
of the womens honorary need not 
be escorted by members of any of the 
mens societies.
The patrons and patronesses will 
include: Dean and Mrs. Morris,
Professor and Mrs.' H. S. Ilower, 
Miss Mary Louise Brown and Mr. 
Swanson The dance is under the 
supervision of the Druid Society. 
The amount charged will bo two dol
lars a couple.
Dr. Erskine Will Lecture 
on American Literature
On February 13, 14 and 15, at 4:30 
p. m., there will be a series of three 
lectures given in the Arts Theater by 
Dr. John Erskine, professor of Eng
lish at Columbia University.
The subject of these lectures will 
be The American Literature of To
day. And the sub topics, namely, 
Poetry, Fiction and Criticism, will be 
discussed in the series.
President Baker has obtained this 
speaker, after fully realizing the need 
of such a man as Dr. Erskine to 
speak to the students in a series of 
lectures.
Dr. Erskine graduated at Columbia 
and has also had many degrees and 
honors conferred upon him in both 
this country'and abroad. He has held 
the position of editor on many liter
ary publications and has written 
poems, essays and books.
These lectures are to be free to the 
public and tickets may be obtained at 
the office of the Secretary. It is urged 
that anyone interested in literature 
be present at these lectures.
TWO TEACHlERS LEAVE M. M.
TO TAKE UP OTHER WORK
Miss Mary G. Ingersoll, Associa
tion Professor of Costume Economics, 
and Miss Sarah J. Weber, Assistant 
Professor in Household Economics, at 
Carnegie Tech, have resigned, &oth 
were attached to the faculty at Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College.
Miss Ingersoll, who has been at 
Carnegie Tech since 1919 has accept
ed a position with the Fisk Teachers 
Agency at Berkeley, Cal. She is a 
graduate of Colorado State Normal 
School and a former student at Co
lumbia University. Prior to her con
nection at the local institution, she 
was Head of the Manual Arts De
partment, Lewiston, Idaho, instructor 
at Cornell University, and instructor 
at New Jersey Agricultural College.
Miss Weber resigned to continue 
her studies at Columbia University. 
She is a graduate of Missouri State 
Normal School, and of the Teachers* 
College at Columbia University. Be
fore her appointment at Carnegie in 
1917, Miss Weber was Assistant 
Critic Supervisor at Missouri State 
Normal School, and teacher and Su
pervisor of Household Economics in 
the public schools of Millville, N. J.
The application blanks for the i 
George H. Smith scholarship can now j 
be secured in the Alumni Office.
This scholarship is open to all Ju- j 
niors in the College of Engineering, 
and is awarded annually on the basis 
of scholarship, activities aud leader-1 
ship.
Those wishing to make application 
should call at the Alumni Office ini- ! 
mediately, so that the blanks can be 
filled out and returned at an early 
date.
COUNCIL ASKED 
BY PETITIONERS 
TO REORGANIZE
CARNEGIE TARTAN WANTS 
MORE SOPHS AND PLEBES 
FOR THE EDITORIAL STAFF
RAMESES RETURNS 
FOR KARNAK FETE
Design Students Celebrate 
New Semester by Huge 
Egyptian Festival
Last Friday the Arts foyer was 
filled with riot and joy. At 9 oclock 
the population surged out through the 
gates to welcome King Raineses II, 
who was returning from hiiKconquests.
By 10 oclock everyone was fully 
enveloped by the atmosphere of the 
Egyptian decorations and costumes. 
The masked inhabitants of Karnak 
danced until the king appeared. It 
was nigh midnight when he arrived 
with his train of attendants and 
slaves.
The procession was wonderful 'to 
behold. Dusky slaves made way for 
the king. Rameses II then followed. 
The people of Karnak stood aghast (in 
bewilderment) as they saw the gor
geous robe and headpiece of their 
king. But who was the king? None 
other than our Prof. Douglass Elling
ton. Before the blinding lights of the 
movie company Pharoah assumed the 
place of honor with his priests;, the 
nobles, generals, soldiers, musicians, 
dancing girls, captive kings and 
queens and slaves followed him. 
Pharoah paced slowly to his throne, 
ascended the velvet steps, widened 
liis arms and combining in his single 
person the warriors, the priest, the 
God, he blessed his people. The 
trumpets resounded throughout Kar
nak and the multitude shouted. The 
(Continued on Page. Four.)
DRAMA DEPT. SKETCH 
ON KEITH SCHEDULE
Public recognition, fame, publicity, 
and all the trimmings are the far6 
on which the Drama Department 
will feast this week. They are do
ing some regular two-a-day stul'i at 
the DavisThe occasion is the commenoration of Lincolns Birthday, and the 
sketbh put on by the Drama students 
Is an incident from the life of the 
preserver of the Union. Thonins 
Wood Stevens is the author of the 
piece, which he undertook at the re
quest of the local manager of the 
Keith Vaudeville Circuit. The Keith 
Theaters throughout the country are 
running a special number this week 
in honor of the former Presidents 
birth, and the efforts of the Carnegie 
(Continued on Page Four.)
MUSICAL CLUBS CONCERT
Before a crowd of over eight hun
dred persons, the Musical Clubs 
made their first appearance in the 
Helma Theater at Etna, Pa., Thurs
day, February 8, under the auspices 
of the Etna American Legion.
The Tech Novelty .Orchestra, made 
up of members of the Mandolin Club, 
were the'hit of the'evening, and it 
was only after repeated encores that 
the audience permitted the program 
'to proceed after the 'first number 
rendered by. the orchestra. The Ford 
Song and Quartet Researsal also 
proved to be popular with the audi
ence. Although the Glee Club was 
weak in certain portions it came 
back strong in the rendition of sev
eral popular numbers. Mr. Brockett 
of the Glee-Club, did very fine work 
as soloist.
The complete program follows:
1Alma Mater....................... Ensemble
2Marph .........................Mandolin Club
3Invictus ...................... .. Glee Club
4Vocal Solo, selected.. Mr. Brockett
5Violin Solo, selected. .Mr. Kovach
6Idilio .............................Mandolin Club
7Kavanaugh .........................Glee Club
8La Paloma...Mandolin Club
9I Love a Little Cottage............
......................................................Glee Club
10Humorous Sketch.........Mr. Reilly
11Symphony Syncopated ..............
.......................Tech Novelty Orchestra
12Dear Old Tech...................Ensemble
Dr. W. W. Charters has been spend
ing the mid-semester days in Mis
souri in consultation with the faculty 
of Stephens College on their problems 
of curriculum and administration.
DOCTOR BINGHAM GIVES
TWO LECTURES IN EAST
Director W. V. Bingham lectured 
on January 31, at the Brooklyn Acad
emy o Arts and Sciences, and on 
February 2 in Montclair, N. J. While 
in New York he attended a meeting 
of the Directors of the Psychological 
Corporation and also spoke at the an 
nual banquet of the New York Clan.
The subject of the lecture in Brook
lyn was Industrial Psychology," par
ticular stress being put upon the use 
of tests for personnel selection pur
poses. Choosing a Career was the 
 address presented to a general audi* 
 ence in Montclair, N. J.
Petition Presented by Sine 
Nomine With Three Hun
dred Names. Council Will 
Hold Open Meeting to Dis
cuss It.
AL IRWIN RESIGNS
Sine Nomine petitioned the Student 
Council at its last meeting to have 
the council reorganized. The peti
tion, which had some three hundred 
signers, asked that the personnel of 
the council be changed so as to in
clude representatives of the Sopho
more and Junior classes. The peti
tion follows:
Whereas, the student body of Car
negie Institute of Technology is gov
erned entirely by a council composed 
of members of the Senior class, which 
class comprises approximately 10 per 
cent of the student body, and 
Whereas, in the opinion of the un
dersigned students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technolbgy, this form of gov
ernment is not truly representative 
of |;he student f body,
Therefore, we do hereby petition 
the Student Council to take such ac
tion as will allow adequate represen
tation to the Junior and Sophomore 
classes.
The Student Council will hold an 
open meeting in the Arts Theater for 
the signers of the petition Thursday 
afternoon at 4:30 to talk over 
the proposed change. This is the first 
time that a petition to change the or
ganization of the Council has ever 
been presented and the Council feels 
that such a meeting will help to bring 
out and clear up any dissatisfaction 
that exists in regard to tho present 
organization. Roddy Patterson will 
act as chairman of the meeting, tho 
time of which will be announced soon.
The Campus Week committee will 
hold its first meeting on Tuesday. 
The committee plans to get to work 
at once on the arrangements and or
ganization of this years Campus 
Week.
A1 Irwin announced his resignation 
as president of rtie Industries Assem
bly. Nominations for his successor 
wei'e opened last Wednesday and tho 
election will be held today.
The program for. General Assembly 
(Contlnuod on Page Four.)
GAMBOL OF GUILDS TO BE 
HLD IN UNION, ERL, FEB. 23
The Gambol of the Guilds will bo 
held in the Union on Friday night, 
February 23, 1923. The price will 
be $2,50. The College Eight will fur
nish the music, and dancing will bo 
from nine until ono oclock.
There is only ono more weolc to 
get your date for tlio Gambol of tho 
Guilds Dance. Make your date ahead 
of time as all the girls will be In 
great demand for that night. This 
dance will be ono of the keenest af
fairs that has been hold on the cam
pus for some time. The committee 
has booked tho Collegiate Eight to 
furnish the music, and in doing so, 
believe they have answered the wish 
of the entire school. This year the 
Collegiate Eight under the direction 
of Everet Hughes has met with re
markable success, . and is now in 
great demand. Witn special fea
tures, Everet has promised to give 
the school something different in the 
form of entertainment and music.
The Union has been booked for 
Friday night, February 23, with the 
addition of the Faculty Club Room, 
which will be used for dancing and 
lounging, leaving the entire space in 
the Union for dancing only. Some
thing different will be served in the 
form of7 refreshmeiits. Everything 
is planned to meet the demands of 
the real college dance. The decora
tions and lighting effects will so dis
guise the hall that you wont recog
nize the old Union.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Professor Trinks Will
Speak at S. I. E. Dinner
Plebes and Sophs who aro iuterest- ] 
ed in newspaper work on the editorial | 
staff should report at the office of I 
the Carnegie Tartan, Room 5-A Indus
tries Buildiug, on Wednesday between 
12:00 and 1:30 p. m.
It is a good chance for you Plebes 
and Sophs to get into some school 
activity. The Carnegie Tartan is one 
of the biggest on the campus and will 
be a good place to do your bit for 
Carnegie Tech.
PERSIAN MINISTER 
AT GEN. ASSEMBLY
Obie Newman and Carl Sny
der to Furnish Entertain
ment With Novelty Song's
Mirza Hussein Khan Alai, E. E., 
M. P., minister to the United States 
from Persia will address tho general 
student assembly In the Musio Hall 
this morning:
Acceptance of the invitation to ad
dress the assembly was received from 
the Persian minister by President 
Baker l?.st week. Mr. Alai speaks 
English fluently and his audience will 
experience no difficulty in understand
ing him.
Although the subject of tho address 
has not been announced, the students, 
will have an opportunity of healing 
the views of a foreign representative 
occupying an Important position In 
international diplomacy.
Tho Persian diplomat Is the third 
consecutive speaker from Washing
ton, D. C., to address tho general stu
dent assembly. Mr. L. S. Rowe, head 
of the Pan-American Union spoke at 
tho December meeting, and tho Hon. 
S. D. Fess, congressman and senatorelect from Ohio, addressed tho Jan
uary meeting.
Oble Newman and Carl Snyder will 
furnish special entertainment in lio 
form of somo novelty songs.
Assembly will start promptly at 
11*45 and overyono Is requested to 
be seated In the Music Hall at this 
time. Tho' program will bo concludod 
at 12:45.
GRADUATES OFFERED 
WORK IN METALLURGY
An lmportani part of tho pian 
submltted to tlio nowly organlzod 
Motalluglcal Advfsory Board was Ilio 
proposai to offor an opportuplty to 
graduatos of acadoinlc and scienti fio 
colleges whercby tlioy could supplomont thelr aeademlc courseB by ono 
or two yoarH study in spoclallzod 
worlc In motallurgy at. Cnrnogio 
Tech.
A clrcular settljig forili tho ifdvant* 
agos of suoli worlc In tho Pittsburgh 
dlstrlct will ho malled to doans or 
othor oxocutivo ofllcos In a largo numbor of collogos and unlvorsltles wlth 
tho suggostlon tliat Sonlor studonts 
in those Instltutlons he lnformod tliat 
tho Instltuto wjl roglstor collego 
graduatos In any of lts tochnlcal 
courses for whlch such graduatos 
(Continuod on Pago Two.)
SHOW FILM 0N STEEL
Movies following the processes of 
the manufacture of steel products 
and1 the methods of refining steel 
from the crude ores wore shown in 
Room 104, Industries, last Tuesday 
and Wednesday. These movies 
showed the various processes for the 
reduction of the ores, the manufac
ture of various grades and kinds of 
steel, as well as the making of ca3t 
and wrought iron.
Hot and cold rolling of steel Into 
various structural shapes was shown, 
along with illustrations of the, pro
cesses for drawing the steels into 
wires. The proceses of manufac
ture of various articles from the 
wire and sheet steels, were also 
shown.
Everyone interested in these mov
ies was invited to attend. All Plebes 
taking drawing were excused to see 
the pictures, Tuesday. The pictures 
were shown through the courtesy of 
the United States St^el Company,
This evening in the Carnegie 
Commons, the local student chapter 
of the American Society of Indus
trial Engineers will hold a meeting 
and dinner. Dinner will be served 
from 6:00 to 7:00 p. m., immediately, 
followed by a business meeting and 
speeches, from 7:00 to 8:00 p. m.
Professor Trinks of the Mechanic
al Engineering Department will bo 
the principal speaker, and judging 
from past performances of Mr. 
Trinks, a splendid time is looked 
forward to by the members of the so
ciety and tliolr guests. Any one 
wishing to attend this dinner aro 
cordially Invited, and it Is hoped 
that many students will take advant
age of the gathering.
Miss Smith has agreed to put up 
a fine plato dinner for four bits, and 
it is assured that this dinner will 
be better than you can get anywhere 
else for that sum. Preparations are 
being made for fifty to seventy-five 
men.
Roger Marshz 11, president of the 
local chapter, w U be in charge.
MUSICAL CLUB ARTISTS
ENTERTAIN AT RECITAL
GROVE CITY QUINTET FALLS 
BEFORE ATTACK OF CARNEGIE 
T0SSERS AFTER 18 VICTORIES
Renowned Cagers Succumb Before the 
Startling Skill and Teamwork 
of Aroused Tartans
PLAID GUARDING REMARKABLE
The old Carnegie Tech spirit found itself last Friday night! Amid the 
cheers and songs of hundreds of loyal Slclbo rooters, a demonstration which
was spontaneous and sprung from the throats of tho crowd without tho
efforts of cheer leaders, the much-touted five from Grove City College went 
down to defeat at tho hands or a fighting Plaid team that simply would not 
be denied. The final score was 29 to IS, with Carnegie on the long end.
' The Mercer Countians came to 
Pittsburgh with an unbroken record 
of IS straight victories, dating back 
to 1922. They wero picked to win 
by at least a dozen counters. But so 
hard did* tho Tartans battle, so close
ly did the guards watch their men, 
so fast were the forwards to pounce 
up'on tho leatner sphere that alter 
the first few minutes of play, the 
home team was never surpassed in 
points scored.
The victory was not a fluke. It 
was won after a hard and gruelling 
fight from tho first to the last blast
Four-Day Tour to Be 
Taken By Musikers
Cleveland, Orville, Elyria and 
Lorain to be Visited
On the twenby^first of February 
the Musical Clubs will start 011 their 
first four-day trip which will take In 
Orrville the night of the twenty-first,
Cleveland tho next day, Elyria on I of the timekeeper's whistle. The 
the twenty-third, and Lorain tho!-^n^ outplayed and outfought the
Grovors. The latter, thorough sports
men, admitted after the game thattwenty-fourth. Tho Cleveland con
cert will be given in tho Olmsted 
Hotel under me ausplcos of the 
Martha Lee Club.
According to the announcement made 
Sunday at the Musical Clubs rehear
sal, three trip's are to bo taken In 
tho noxt few weolcs by tho club with 
a total mileage or over a thousand 
mlloB. This Is ono of tho most ex
tensive trips that, tho Musical Clubs 
have attempted to put 011 slnco their 
formal I011.
The first out-of-town trip was made 
last Thursday when tho Club traveled 
to Etna under the auspices of the 
Etna American Legion. This woolc 
ilio club will present Its second con
cert I11 tho high school of Now Ken
sington, at 8: in p. in., Thursday.
Tho woolc wollowlng tho twentyfirst tho club will glvd it's host concort of the soasen when It travels to 
Buffalo under tho ausplcos of tho 
Intor-fratornlliyi Councils of Buffalo 
to givo a ooncort In tho Twentieth 
Century Club. After I lie concei t, tho 
Toch Novelty Orchosta made up of 
members of tho Mandolin Club will 
provide music for I ho annual Intorfratornlty ball. Tho club will alno 
give a concert In Erlo 011 this trip.
Forty men out of an enrollment of 
over a hundred will be taken 011 
Illese trips, and, 110 doubt, the com
petition for places will bo quite lcoon.
Mid-Semester Freshmen 
Guests of Y.M.C.A. Cabinet
About thirty Carnegie Toch Fresh
men, who enrolled for tho first time 
during tho mid-year registration porlod, were tho guests of tho Cabinet 
of tho Carnoglo Toch Branch Y. M. 
C. A. Inst night, at a suppor mooting. 
The gathorlng was hold In tho 
Campus Commons whore the cablnot members welcomed tho now stu
dents, and offerod to servo as their 
counsellors or advisors for tho re
mainder of the present term.
The action of the cabinet was In 
line with the Senior Counsellor Plan 
at Carnegie Tech, a system by which 
groups or Freshmen students are as
signed to certain Seniors who serve 
as their counsellors.
DR. ROSENHAIN TO LECTURE
Dr. Walter Rosenhaln, of England, 
gave two lectures on the general sub
ject of "Metallurgy last Monday and 
Tuesday nights, at Carnegie Tech. 
Acceptance from the famous English
man was sent by wlreloss last, week 
from the S. S. Olympic, on which he 
was a passenger, en route to this 
country.
Dr. Rosenhains status in the field 
of metallurgy compares favorably 
with that of Edison or Stelnmetz in 
(Continued on Page Four.)
tho winners played the hotter game 
of basket ball. Should tho Tartans 
be ablo to lcoop up tho pace they sot 
last Friday night, thoy should not 
have to suffer detoat very many tlnios 
during the remainder of tho aohoclude.
Tho first fow minutes wero all 
Grove City, thoy having scored llvo 
before Anderson had dropped In a 
braoo from tho foul mark. Carnoglo 
had startod thorn. With an exhibi
tion of toam work soldom oquallod 
on any court, they literally swept 
the ball down Into I ho enemys terri
tory, penetrating1 their heretofore air
tight. defence, and frequently scoring 
from undor tho basket. Donahue and 
Acting Captain Anderson led the of
fensive with three Hold goals aploco 
Anderson added thirteen more pUlriln 
via tho foul mark, and Mefort and 
Gibson each sent ono through tho 
ring from tho field,
At half tlmo the sooro was doso, 
standing at IB to 13. Many of those 
who wltnossod tho gsmo wpro dubi
ous about the Hklbos ability to keep 
up I lie whirlwind pace against 1111 ag
gregation of the visitors caliber But 
If was In tho socond half that l.lio 
homo team began to really draw 
away. Tho only points gained by 
Grove "Cltv in this period wore from 
tho foul lino. So tight was tho dofonslvo work of the Carnegie guards, 
Mohrmnn and Gibson, that Joe Smith, 
(Contlnuod on Pago Two.)
Westinghouse Official 
To Speak to A. I. E. E.
Illustrated Lecture to be Given 
Thursday in 218
An unusual program has boon ar
ranged Tor the mooLlng of tho A. I. E. 
E. which will bo held tomorrow night 
In Room 218, Science. As explained 
in last woolc'B issuo of the Carnegie 
Tartan, the meeting was postponed 
due to the inspection trips taken by 
the upper classmen. It Is now hoped 
that a large number will attend tho 
meeting which will be decidedly in
teresting.
Mr. T. IC. Hayes of the WoBtinghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
Company will speak 011 "Power De
velopment In the Far East. Mr. 
Hayes Is peculiarly fitted to speak on 
the subject since he has, on behalf 
of the Westinghouse Company, done 
extensive traveling In the undevel
oped countries of Asia.
Mr. Hayes will also show three 
reels of film and more than 1lfty 
slides which are tho result of the 
more l,ban forty thousand miles of 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Patrolman on Beat is Put to Flight 
As Rameses Seeks a Cab at Night
A recital by students of the Music 
Department was given last Sunday 
night, February 11, In the Arts Thea
ter. The program was as follows: 
Program.
1. Brahms. Trio for piano, violin 
and 'cellor, Op. 101 Allegro 
energleo
Alice Kirk, Francis Kleylo, Joe 
Reploglo.
2. Rubinstein. Du hist wle elno 
Blume
Claire Trabort
3. Secchl. Lungl dal caro benl
Samuel Murphy
4. Chopin. Twenty-four Preludes,. 
Op. 28
Oscar L. TTolfenbeln 
Accompanist, Matthew' N. Frey. 
Cai-negle Techs Symphony Orches
tra, according to the announcement 
from the Institute, will make another 
public appearance In concert on 'Sun
day evening, February 18, at Carnegie 
1 Music Hall.
By T. S. Repplier
(Copyright. 1923, by B. V. D. Co.)
Art for aits sake Is all very well. 
Just so long as the little celebrations 
and outbursts! of temperament aro 
kept within the sacred circle, where 
one of Gods glftod ones understands 
anothereverything Is rosy. But 
Just as soon as you start demonstrat
ing before the uninitiateda vulgar 
ploblatithen there's trouble to bo 
sure. Take the caso of tho Pittsburgh 
police force, for Instance.
The Lnncl of the 8hlek,
It appears the Collogo of Fine Arts 
had a ball tho other night. Every
body dressed themselves up In pre
cisely their Idea of Mark Anthony or 
Cleopatra or the Sphinx before she 
lay downthe amount of clothes 
worn depsnding directly upon the 
temperature and ones figure. There 
appeared to be some difference of 
opinion as to just what was or was
not worn in tho days of Ramoses and 
Murad (this Is not a cigarette adver
tisement.), but everybody held tliolr 
arms at peculiar angles and sprlnklod 
themselves with sand to give the nec
essary atmosphere. Tho committee 
even Imported a pair of trained 
Sphinxes to lay still and behave 
while everybody else had a good tlmo.
Saint Patrick's Snaken.
All was lovoly until about thrco 
oclock In the. morning when tho va
rious Egyptians and Egyptlanesses 
began to betake themselves to their 
hangouts (or whatever may be tho 
Egyptian equivalent of such a place.) 
And all might still have been lovely 
had not a party of taxi-less Pharoah 
taken It. Into their heads to roam 
down to Forbes street in search of 
an unengaged chariot.
Unfortunately, Patrolman Me (or 
OC.) was at this time patrolling his 
(Continued on Page Two.)
\

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1923
Published every week by undergraduates o the Carnegie Instituto of 
Technology under the supervision or Ilio Student Activities Board.___________
Insurance Course 
Proves Its Worth
Entered in the Postofflce of Pittsburgh us second-class mutter.
VICTOR II. STEOMQTJIST .............................................................. BdUor-ln-Chlot
TelephoneHiland 858.
. H. D. SONNBMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 1)211
HDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... MiiSagtag Bllltor
TelephoneSchenley 0143
KENNETH ARNOLD ................................................................... .......Associate Editor 1
H. P. SIMPSON ......................................................................................... Associate Editor.
H. P. DIETER...................................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK S. DOWNES.................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHazel 0308
FRED C. SMITH..................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneIllland 8118'J
FRED T. PHELPS..................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneSchenley 0102
H. H. WILSON....................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 0350
R. P. HAY ............................................................................................................. Photographer
R. B. KELLER ............................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR............................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER ............................................................................................. Special Writer
Statistics Compare Trained 
Versus Untrained
J. M. COOPER ................................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0211
J. C. MAJOR....................................................................................... Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzmun, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, L. D. Richards, 
A. F. Andrews, B. DeMare, E. G. Eigle, A. E. Krogh, A. I. Isaacs, R. C. 
Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
E. C. Fruzior, J. Hij Ferguson, a. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, IT. P. Rossback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudlg, D. Moskovltz, J. W. 
Metro, P. W. Reilly, H. Gibson, W. A. Jacko, P. Edio, R. L. Sandrock, B. 
Broudy, II. Urschol.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if Bigned. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All news Items must bo in the student 
postolllce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OlllcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Olllce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00. ____________________
THE CLASSICAL LANGUAGES
Classical language is no longer required for a degree at Yale, 
according to a recent announcement. There are very few schools in 
the English speaking nations that now hold the classics essential for 
a college education; although many educators argue that a great deal 
of culture is derived from the study of Greek and Latin; this may be 
true, but ancient art and science cun. be imparted without a knowl
edge of the dead languages; again there has been such rapid ad
vances in science and art during the modern ago that the classics 
have lost some of the importance attached to these subjects a genera
tion ago.
The llomance languages have become more in demand than be
fore, this is perhaps partly duo to the connections with somo of our 
allies during the world war. Anyhow the average student is per
haps more interested in the present than in the distant past.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY TODAY
Everybody should attend general assembly today at the Carnegie 
Music llall. Assembly is for the benefit ol! the students and should 
lie attended. The turnout last time was deplorable and it seems a 
shame not to havo a good crowd to enjoy the good program.
Unless it is absolutely impossible to get there, ovcry real Carnogic student should mako it a duty to be present.
A REMEDY NEEDED
Tho cheer leader situation sooms to bo in a stato of confusion at 
present. At tho last two basket ball games tho cheering was not up 
to tho standard because thoro was no leador in charge.
This proposition needs immediato attention and should be 
remedied bofoib our noxt homo games. Tho band perhaps showed 
a lack ol! spirit by not appearing ali those gamos; il' they did not havo 
a good reason for not coming out their attitudo is inexcusable. Wo 
hope that in the futuro tho team will be given propor support.
THE NEW PRESIDENT
Tho annonncomonli that* Dr, .1 laicor has been appointed prosident 
is received with*much satisfaction by alumni and students, because 
lie is Ilio logical man to head the institution; for he is a man ol! 
learning and also a good scholar who fms devoted his life to the 
advancement ol! teaching; besides he has n great personality which 
has won him many friends in this country and abroad. Dr. Baker 
has the interest of tho students at heart, this has boon shown by his 
keen interest in student work and activities.
We take this opportunity to congratulate our new prosident and 
to wish him. unlimited success and happiness, with tho assuranco that 
the alumni and students are behind him to the last degree.
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14
General Student Assembly...........................11:30, Ctirnegie Music Hall
Erslciue Lecture..............................................................4:30, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15
Cliapcl......................................................................... 12:50, Arts Theater
Erskiue Lecture..............................................................4:30, Arts Theater
Drama.Three 1-act Flays............................................8:15, Arts Theater
Musical Club Concert.......................................................New Kensington
Band Practice............................................................7:30, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Erskine Lecture..............................................................4:30, Arts Theater
Drama.Three 1-act Plays............................................8:15, Arts Theater
Girls Basket BallVarsity vs. Indiana Normal.......8:00, Field House
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17
Drama.Three 1-act Plays..............S :15, Arts Theater
DanceBasket Ball..................................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 18 
Musical Chibs Practice
Glee Club.........................................................2:30, Arts Exhibition
Mandolin Club...............................................2:30, Carnegie Union
Symphony Concert.............i............................8:15, Carnegie Music Hall
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
DanceInter-Honorary................................................... Carnegie Union
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22
Washingtons Birthday........................................................... No Classes
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Dance -Gambol of the Guilds..........................................Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 25
Musical Recital....-.................................I.......................8:15, Arts Thoater
FRIDAY, MARCH !)
DanceSoph Hop.............................................................9:00, Arts Foyer
FRIDAY, MARCH l(i 
Homo ConsortMusical Clubs.................... 8:15, Carnegie Music llall
The Idea of life insuring dates buck 
many yours, but tho training of life 
Insurance salesmen Is one of the 
presenL uge. Tho vulue of tills train
ing bus boon discussed In muny wuys. 
Data on thirty-three Curnegio Tech 
graduutes now connected with the 
Edward Woods Agency gives some 
idea as to Its worth. Of tho thirtythroe, sixteen had no experience prior 
to attending the school, fourteen liad 
from one to twolvo months experi
ence and sevon had over a yeur's ex
perience.
Tho uverugo monthly deposits, of 
those with no previous experience, 
before graduation were $07, after 
graduutlon, $213, showing an lncreuse 
of 120 per cent; of those with one to 
twolvo months experience, before 
graduation, $107, ufter graduation, 
$280, an Incrcuso of 07 per cent; of 
those with over a years experience, 
before gruduutlon, $185, ufter gruduutlon, $353, un increase of 01 per cent.
The llgures show that a gruduute 
with no previous experience produces 
more business during his first yeur 
thun u mnn with severul yeurs expe
rience who bus not been trulned.
Tho training offered ut tho Curnegie School Is divided into economic, 
soclul and psychologicul problems.
An ideu us to the extent the school 
is known cun be seen in the distribu
tion, both geogruphicully und uccordIng to compuny uillllutlons of the win
ter cluss of 1023.
Compuny: Equltuble Life, live;
Bershire Life, three; Northwestern 
Mutuul, throe; Aotnu Life, two, and 
one ouch from Franklin, Nutionul 
Guurdiun, Imperiul, Penn Mutuul, 
Minnesota Mutuul, London, Connecti
cut Mutuul, American Central, Life 
Companies und Bunkers Life of Dos 
Moines, Dominion und Sun Life eompunios of Canada.
Stuto: Pennsylvnniu, eight; Ohio,
two; Indinnu, two; Massachusetts, 
two; Kunsus, two; Iowu, two; 
Novu Scotiu, two; Virglniu, one; Ken
tucky, one; Maine, one; Wisconsin, 
one; North Curolinu, one; Mississippi, 
one; Cullfornlu, one; Onturio, one.
There uro three six-week courses 
given during tho your. Tho first 
start In October, tho second In Januury und the third in April.
Machine ProductionJfMen 
Visit Kelly-Jones Plant
Last Thursduy uftornoon tho Junior 
jGIRL In Muchlno Production hud u 
very Interesting Inspection trip to 
Greonshurg to tuko In tho plant of 
Kolly-.lonos Foundry Company. Profesors Dosey of Foundry Prnctlco 
und Bill Pfouts of Pattern Making 
wore In direct, charge, and through 
answering the thousand und one dif
ferent questions succoedod In diffus
ing a largo amount of valuable infor
mation Into tho members of tho class.
Tho party, consisting of Hassell, 
Mal l nr, Dosey, White, Syiibok, Simp
son, Putt, Brown, Moclclom, I-Iauser, 
Rogers, Carlin, Snoathon, Clclclng, 
McCollum and many others, loft the 
East Liberty station at 12:13 p. m., 
arriving In Groensburg al. about 1:00 
p. m, Cars wore immediately taken 
for I,lie Kelly-Jones plant at Huff, Pa,
Practically four hours woro spent 
Inside tho plant, and many intorostlng 
processes were watched by the stu
dents, while copious notes woro taken, 
which should prove invaluable infor
mation in the future.
Odloials of the company wore very 
cordial In tlioir grootlug, and asslgnod 
four moil to show tho party through 
tho different departments, allowng 
us much time us they desired, for 
which they surely hud the thunks und 
appreciation of tho party.
Roumer sez the Curnegle Turtuns 
been u ruzzln sort uv puper uv lato, 
und thinks it's 'bout time tu quit. 
Thut is tu suy, we thol that las' week. 
But this week we think dlfrunt. Lots 
uv hlngs come to our tenshun durin' 
the weak just compelted thut sorter 
made us ehungo our wuys of thinkin. 
Fuk is, wo have boon inude tu kum to 
tho conclushun thut Its jest gettin' 
time tu begin.
But, gettin' down tu fuksthu 
things thut muks mo ruve so now Is 
where In the nume of sam hil Is thut 
kilt klad bund of ourn? Furthermore, 
where in tho nume of tho sumo pluce 
is thut gung of cheer leuders who 
lister romp und play roun when 
those bunches uv folios used to chase 
thut ovul shuped plg-skln up 'n down 
the gridiron? To Roumor's wuy uv 
thinking thero's sumjthin wrong j in 
sumbodys bruin. Sumbody, sumwhere, und rite now, is taking the 
wrong Blunt on thu matter ut hand, 
'n is puttin selfish motive abed uv 
school putrlotlsm. They seem tu think 
thut there littul minds Is greuter thun 
there duty tu thu school. They seem 
tu think that there littuland durn 
littul it Is toogrudge mus' be satusflod at thu spense uv our school's 
roputashun as bein er school with er 
good spirut. 'N uther wurds, theyre 
mighty durn selfish, 'n fhats nil their 
is tu it.
It seems tu Roumer thut they sliud 
git sum uv this hero school spirut 
instilled intu there bruins und soles 
and fergit a littul mistake that was 
made, speclnlly when thu mulcur uv 
thut mistuke did his verre best to 
correct sume. 'N tu our way uv 
thinkin' he has succeeded mighty 
well.
Kum on, mister memburs uv thu 
band, put on them kilts and put in 
your appearunces at thu nex basket 
ball game, and help thu student body 
cheer fur the team and victory. 
Youre a vital cog in the machinery 
tiv that famus Carnegie Tech spirit.
AND THAT'S NO LIE!!!
Musical Clubs Encounter
Schedule Difficulties
PATROLMAN ON BEAT IS PUT 
TO FLIGHT AS RAMESES
SEEKS A CAB AT NIGHT
(Continued From Page Ono) 
heat after reuding a thrilling novel 
based upon recent excavations ut tho 
tomb of Pliaroah. The officer's mind 
was entirely occupied with his sub
ject, when before his astonished vi
sion there appeared a number of the 
ghostly crew themselves. Officer Me 
stared, in fact he very nearly over
stepped the bounds of politeness in 
doing so. Then with a loud cry of 
>Saints preserve us! he vanished 
trom view with an astonishing rapid
ity for so large a gentleman. Appar
ently the idea of placing the peoples
of a more 3,000 years ago under ar
rest dlil not occur to him.
Genius Undrnpcd,
If we were a moralist, which were 
not, we might at this point speak a 
parable instead of which wo will only 
say :
Its all very nice to havo tempera
ment but dont let it stick out all over 
you; some crude person may mistake 
you for a fruit vendor.
Professor Trinks lectured in Oil 
City on Smoke Abatement before 
the Associated Womens Clubs on 
January 30th and on The Place, of 
the Engineering Graduate in the In
dustries before the Kiwanis Club, 
[ January 31.
GRADUATES OFFERED
WORK IN METALLURGY
(Continued From Page One) 
have had adequate preparatary 
training.
The iron and steel industry yearly 
absorbs a large number of men who 
are not necessarily trained in metal
lurgical processes. Director Mott 
believes that ihany of these young 
men would be glad to profit by one 
or two years study so that in their 
commercial and executive work with 
the steel companies they would have 
a general knowledge of the processes 
involved in iron and steel manufac
ture.
Tho committee In charge of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Symphony Orchestra Concerts has 
been trying , to arrange satisfuctory 
dates for tho next concerts. The first 
endeavor was to schedule the con
certs on nights other than Sunday, 
but the complications that have al
ways  been ''encountered when trying 
to do this have so far prevented.
Of the ninety men and women who 
mako up our orchestra twenty-seven 
are under contract to play in theaters, 
movies and hotel orchestras every 
night except Sunday! In order to 
take part in our concerts on another 
night than Sunday it would be nec
essary for them not only to procure a 
substitute for that night, which S 
not always possible, but also to have 
the substitute present at rehearsals. 
In addition about twenty-six other 
members of the orchestra are con
nected with dance orchestras and 
bands and aro frequently callod upon 
to play with tlioir organizations. At 
least half of that number would be 
affected by a weolc day concert. Tho 
groat Inconvenience resulting from 
giving tho concorts on another night 
than Sunday would probably make 
tho concerts Impossible ovon If the 
financial loss (ostlmntod at botwoon 
three and four hundred dollars) could 
be ontlroly ignored.
Experience covorlng many years In 
which no concerts or recitals woro 
given, und those latter years wlion 
numerous concorts and recitals have 
boon offered to tho public, convinces 
us that wo are performing a very 
real service to our community. The 
presentation of programs of tho best 
music is both instructive and inspir
ing. The offering of many such con
certs free to the public is a positive 
contribution that means much in the 
lives of many of our students and 
guests and supplies them with elevat
ing occupation for many hours which 
otherwise might not be profitably 
used.
Albert R. Zelt Heads 
Campus Week Comm.
Albert R. Zelt, familiarly known to 
everyone about the campus as 
Dutch, is to carry on the good work 
this year as chairman of the commit
tee for Carnegie Techs 1023 Campus 
Week. Dutch recognizes Washington, 
Pu., us his home town. Whiie attending Washington High School, he 
pluyed four yeurs of footbull, rubbing 
shoulders with pluyers who have 
made numes for themselves ull over 
the country. 1-Ie wus ulso uctive In 
muny other prep, school uffuirs.
ALBERT R. ZELT
He is u student in the Mucliine 
Production course in the College of 
Industries. His popularity among his 
classmates is proven by his election 
to the presidency of the class of 
1023 o Industries. On the gridiron, 
Wally Steffen found him an invalu
able bulwark at tackle, taking care 
of his side of the line in splendid 
style. We find him also interested in 
non-athletic activities in taking care 
of the duties of Secretary and Treas
urer of the Student Council.
1-Ie is a member of Iota iSigma Del
ta Fraternity, the Dragon Society and 
Alpha Tau Honorary Fraternity.
Dutch promises that the coming 
campus week is to be bigger - and 
better than ever.
GROVE CITY QUINTET FALLS 
BEFORE ATTACK OF CARNEGIE 
TOSSERS AFTER 18 VICTORIES
S. Iv. Ratcliffe, correspondent of the 
Manchester Guardian, Englands great 
Liberal newspaper and widely known 
in the United States as a lecturer, 
visited the Social Work Department 
on Monday, January 20.
(Continued From Page One) 
the crack forward of the district, 
was stopped completely and was not 
allowed a single goal during the 
whole game. A team that can stop 
Joe Smith and prevent Ills whole 
team from making a Bingle field goal 
during the second half is going 
sme. Especially commendable was 
tho work of Mohrman at guard. 1-Ie 
nipped many a promising Grove City 
rally before It became dangerous and 
consistently outsped Smith and Hart
man when those two flashy forwards 
threatened1 to run up the Crimson 
score to an uncomfortable total.
As the time for playing grew 
shorter and the Skibos increased 
their lead, they realized that they 
had a chance to win their biggest 
victory yet, and played like men pos
sessed. With a bewildering and su
perbly beautiful exhibition of tenin 
play and with an uncanny faculty of 
advancing tho sphere into enemy ter
ritory, tho yellow-jerseyod sons of 
Carnoglp could not and would not be 
stopped in their mad romp toward 
victory and glory. And may they 
recoivo all the glory they deserve, 
for they won their victory cleanly.
The lineup:
Carnegie20. Grove City18.
Anderson ...............F........... Hartman
Donahue ...................F...................... Smith
Mefort ......................C.......................... Fay
Gibson .....................G............... Fleming
Mohrman ................G.................... Shorts
SubstitutionsDorsey for Mohr
man, Foster for Hartman, Guerra for 
Fleming, Fleming for Guerra, Guerra 
for Fleming. Field goalsAnderson 
3, Donahue 3, Fay 2, Mefort, Gibson, 
Guerra, Shorts.. Foul goajsAnder
son, 13 out of-18; Hartman, 7 out of 
13; Foster, 3 out of 6. Time of
halves20 minutes. Referee?Dough
erty, W. & .T. UmpireBaird, Penn 
State.
Mrs. Burnett will make an address 
on Mobilizing the Social Forces of 
the Community before the Womens 
Alliance of the First Unitarian 
Church on February 21.
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH,
Today three types of men dominate 
the industrial world; the practical, 
the theoretical und a combinution of 
both.
A mun muy be theoreticalbut of 
whut use, if with all of this knowl
edge he cannot put it into pructicul 
uses?
Aguln, u mun may be practicul. He 
may hold down u good job, but very 
seldom does thjs type of man move 
into the upper crust of big executive 
jobs. He might do sosuch an event 
would immediately stamp him as a 
very extraordinary man.
But give us a man who is both 
practical and theoretical, and well 
wager liell find few obst'acles block
ing his way to the highest and best 
positions.
CARNEGIE TECH is spending time 
and money every day in research 
work developing the ways and means 
of developing its students into this 
last named type of man. Her depart
ments are being organized and reor
ganized in order to turn out graduates 
who are better able to take their 
places in the industrial plants of the 
country.
Professor Leeds of the Machine 
Production department, College of 
Industries, has made great advances 
towards this goal. In this depart
ment, the subject matter of instruc
tion is a blending of engineering and 
business training with a background 
of shop practice, tending to produce 
the exactness and precision of engi
neers, plus the practicability of the 
shop man. Men are being specific
ally trained for future industrial ex
ecutivethey supplement the work 
of engineers.
Realizing the lack of equipment 
that any school is faced with, and the 
great variety of types of work and 
the speoial machinery required to do 
this work which industrial plants' 
have, Professor Leeds lias arranged 
series of twenty-five inspection 
trips to extend over the entire semes
ter. It is believed that by such an ar
rangement, the students will have 
more time to see the thousand and 
one different methods used and to 
think about what they have seen.
These trips will be supervised by 
Professors Dosey, Pfouts, Potter and 
Taylor, admitted to be the strongest 
men in their respective departments.
The trips planned are:
Foundry and Pattern.
Fort Pitt Malleable Company, KellyJones Company, Greensburg; WestFaculty Notes
Mrs. Bumett, head of the Social 
Work Department, will speak on 
County Organization for Welfare 
Work at the Pennsylvania Confer
ence on Social Welfare to be held iii 
Johnstown, February 8, 0 and 10. 
Miss Mary J. Condon, of the same de
partment, will make the annual ad
dress as president of the conference. 
Mrs. Burnett has been appointed torepresent the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology at the meetings of tho 
Pittsburgh Federation of Social Agen
cies.
President Frank J. Goodnow, of the 
Johns Hopkins University, will be the 
guest and speaker at a dinner of the 
Johns I-Iopkins Alumni in Pittsburgh 
at the University Club next Tuesday 
night. Dr. Baker is chairman of the 
committee in charge of arrangements.
inghouse Airbrake Company, Stand
ard Sanitary Company, Stove and 
Range Company of Pittsburgh, Fort 
Pitt Steel Casting Company, Union 
Steel Casting Company, Westinghouse Foundry Company, Damas
cus Bronze Company, J. & L., South 
Side plant; Pittsburgh Valve Foun
dry and Construction Company, 
Mesta Machine Company.
Forge and Machine.
Hubbard Shovel Company, P. & L. 
E. Railroad shops, Oil Well Supply 
Company, Crucible Steel Company, 
Midland plant; Westinghouse Elec
tric and Manufacturing Company 
Union Switch and Signal Company, 
Heppenstall Knife .and Forge Com
pany, Flannery Bolt Company, Verona 
Tool Works, R. D. Nuttall Company. 
Standard Steel Car Company, Butler; 
Edgar Thompson Company, Latrobe 
Electric Steel Company.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
Fraternities wanting Dance Pro
grams, Favors, Stationery, Pillow Cov
ers, etc., should get prices from Sing
er Pen & Gift Shop.
R-A-D-l-0 
RACO Crystal Detector Sets,
complete ....................................$12.50
$3.00 Lightning Protectors... 2.75 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY CO. 
4521 FORBES ST., Near Craig St. 
Edison Mazda Lamps. 
Electrical Supplies.
Start the 
Week Right I
Church on Sunday : 
puts new pep into Mon- j 
day, Tuesday, Wednes- ; 
daytill Sunday comes ' 
again. Try it and see. ;
Oakland Methodist 
Church
FORBES AND 
BOQUET
Fifty steps from the 
campus
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 0:45 A.M. j
College Mens Bible
Class .........................10:00 A.M. :
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies .................. 7:00 P.M. :
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
Professor Follows is giving a series 
of sixteen lectures on Friday nights 
at the East Liberty Y. M. C. A. on 
foremansliip. He spoke Fridas- night, 
February 2, on Training for Success 
in Industry.
THEIR MAJESTIES AT THE ARTS BALL
The Fisi Building, New York City 
CAkREilE it HASTINGS
Designing in Masses
f I *HE new architecture transcends detail and expresses 
-i- the component solids of the great buildings of today 
and tomorrow. Gigantic profiles are reared against the 
skytrue expression of structural facts has now come 
into its own in architectural design, linking architect and 
engineer ever more closely togedier.
Certainly modern invendonmodern engineering skill 
and organization, will prove more than equal to the 
demands of the architecture of the future.
OTISELEVATOR
Offices in all Principal CitieCOMPANY
or the World
DOUGLASS ELLINGTON-BESS JOHNSTONQueen.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THRhC
PLAID ATHLETICS
Team Work of Plaid Bewilders 
Allegheny Men in Fast Game
Strong Freshman Floor Squad 1922-23
Carnegie Five Continue Good 
Work and Enemy Falls 
Before Furious Attack
FINAL SCORE IS 43-29
Continuing their victorious pace 
set against Grove City the previous 
night, the basket ball artists of Car
negie Tech defeated the five of Alle
gheny College last Saturday night to 
the tune of 43-29. Compared to the 
Grove City encounter, the contest 
with the Meadville passers was easy. 
The Skibos displayed a passing game 
which was bewildering to the oppon
ents, and which enabled Coach Lubics men to gain a commanding lead 
before the end of the first half. The 
half ended with the Plaid far out in 
front, the score standing at 27-11.
As in the previous nights engage
ment,' the visitors started the scoring 
and had garnered a lead of several 
points before they were headed by 
the home aggregation. Immediately 
aftter .the initial toss-up, Miller and 
Wise each scored a goal from the 
field. But the gloom enshrouding the 
Tartan supporters was soon pierced 
by a flash of team play which result
ed in goals by Donahue and Anderson. 
The deadlock was then broken when 
Anderson dropped a brace through 
from the foul mark.
It must .not be thought that the 
Methodists are 14 points weaker than 
their hosts under ordinary conditions. 
Hard battles against Bethany and Ge
neva had knocked much of the pep 
out of them. The Plaid players were 
not visibly affected by the strain of 
the Grove City game, and the pre
cision of their team work belied the 
fact that two or them were ill with 
severe colds.
The 27 points gathered in by Ander
sons men during the first half were 
' the result of four baskets by Dona
hue, three by Anderson, three by Gib
son, one by Mefort and six from the 
foul line by Anderson. In this period 
Allegheny scored on goals from the 
field by Miller, who made two, Ross 
Wise and Braun. So clean was the 
performance of the Skibos that 
Brownell had but two opportunities 
to show. his accuracy from the foul
marker. He missed the first but 
counted on the second.
The boys from Meadville tightened 
up In the final stanza and slightly 
outscored the Tartans. They chalked 
up six goals from the field against 
five for the home team. Anderson 
and Brownell were even in their ef
forts from the foul line, each scoringsix points from-the other team's miscues.
The bright lights of the Carnegie 
five were Donahue, Anderson and Gib
son, from the standpoint of scoring. 
However, the work of Mohrman at 
guard was above average and de
serves comment. Mefort did some 
sensational work In carrying the ball 
down into the enemys territory, and 
was able to outjump the Allegheny 
center.
Alleghenys greatest fault was their 
inclination to shoot from long dis
tances, when it was possible to get 
within better scoring distance of the 
basket. These shots; were usually 
mkl, and Mefort was usually on hand 
to seize the ball on the rebound, hence 
this process was- often costly.
The important fact in the last few 
victories is that the boys are work
ing together, and are in there to win, 
regardless of who happens to be the 
opponent. Further, they are now 
showing the results of some of the 
best coaching in the district. The 
lineup:
Carnegie43 Allegheny29
Anderson............... F. ....................Ross
Donahue................... F.........................Miller
Mefort...................... C...........................Wise
Gibson....................... G...................Brownell
Mohrman................ G.........................Braun
iSubstitutions  TechMatter for
Anderson, Dosey for Donahue, Dona
hue for Ddsey, Miller for Mefort; Al
leghanyDale for Ross. Ross for
Dale. Field goalsDonahue 5, Gib
son 5, Anderson 4, Mefort, Miller 3, 
Wise 3, Braun 2, Ross 2, Brownell.' 
Foul goalsAnderson, 11 out of 14; 
Brownell, 7 but of 14. Time of halves 
20 minutes. RefereeBaird, Penn 
State.
DanceTo-night
-rmpHere are two new dance hits with 
all the thrillssaxophones, chro
matic scales, harps, the veiled 
trombone, the muted cornetall 
on Brunswick Records, the 
worlds truest reproductions, to 
put new life into the old phono
graph to-night.
2305Greenwich WitchFox Trot 
Ivyl'ox Trot 
2358Itumlng SandFox Trot 
Aunt Facualty Children 
ISlucuFox Trot
(JshatnJones plays tliem
They play on any 
phonograph
TRAVEL MADE EASY
Courteous clerks who 
know every lane of travel 
the world over are at your 
disposal at our Steamship 
Department. Select your 
destination and we will do 
everything in our power 
to help you reach it in 
comfort and safety.
Mellon National BankOliuer Jlue.S Stmihfield.
| Plaid Cagers Leave For 
Two-Game Eastern Trip
Ready to Meet Strong Teams 
But Not Over-Confident
Dr. Albert L. Rowland, Director of 
thfe Teachers Bureau of the State 
Department of Public Instruction, was 
in the city on Thursday, February 1, 
and had a conference with Dr. Ihrlg 
concerning the plans for the summer 
session.
Public Sales
We have purchased 122,000  
pairs U. S. Army Munson last ! 
shoes, sizes 5j/2 to 12, which  
was the entire surplus stock of ; 
one of the largest U. S. Govern- , 
ment shoe contractors.
This shoe is guaranteed one 
hundred per cent solid leather,  
color dark t^n, bellows tongue, | 
dirt and waterproof. The ac
tual value of this shoe is $6.00. 
Owing to this tremendous buy 
we can offer same to the public 
at $2.95.
Send correct size. Pay post
man on delivery or send money 
order. If shoes are not as rep
resented we will cheerfully re
fund your money promptly upon 
request.
National Bay State 
Shoe Company
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
Standing, left to rightManager Sonnemann, Bender, West, Smith, Bowers, Burt, Lackey, Cupp, Coach 
Beeier.
Kneeling, left to rightHarris, Wilson, Wisoskey, Cooper, Cook.
Sitting, left to rightEdie, Barnes, Diffly, Seaman, Graff.
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
FINDING THEMSELVES
Three victories this last week have positively proven that our Plaid 
tossers have found themselves. It took such a critical game as that with 
Grove City to make the boys show that team play and fight, that is charac
teristic of all Carnegie teams.
Grove City, leaders of the Tri-State League, undefeated through eighteen 
consecutive games, found their Waterloo in Jim Anderson and the rest of Ills 
yellow jackets. Every man on the team, Mefort, Donahue, Gibson, Mohrman 
and even Cap Dosey helped to put the sting of defeat on the Crimson outfit. 
In fact playing as they did, it is doubtful if any team In the section could 
have taken their measure. The defeat of Allegheny the following night 
proved that the sudden reversal of form was no fluke.
Coach Lubic has without a doubt done marvelous work in developing a 
team that could topple over the unbeatable Grove City Crimsons. His 
coaching of Mefort, Donahue and the other men as well as the veterans has 
shown Its results conclusively in last weeks games. The thing now Is to 
keep from getting over-confident after the two decisive victories. OUR 
TEAM CAN PLAY BASKET BALL AND WE WANT VICTORIES FROM 
NOW ON.
THE OLD TECH SPIRIT
Also found itself with the victory over Grove City. Tho little band of 
Crimson rooters with their 'Wreck Tech awoke the slumbering giant and 
the cheers had that snap and ring that we havo not heard in many a day. 
Some one dusted the coh-webs off a cheer leader when tho need became 
great enough. A fighting crowd of rooters doesnt need a cheer loader, al
though they are handy at times. However Bill Pencil, who did make an 
appearance, deserves a word of praise for his work.
The Kiltie band would have been a big help to the spirit of the spec
tators. It must be they sort of got tho big head after the bit of compliment 
we gave them last week.
THE PLEBES
And their coach, Paul Beeler, merit mention for they havo gone through 
a difficult schedule with but two defeats chalked up against them. Tho 
material that is being developed from tho squad will bolster up. tho varsity 
squad of next year when the Freshman Rule goes Into effect.
Toots Amans and Goodwin as well as Jackson are fast men on tho floor 
and good shots. They fight to tho final whistle and the result is generally a victory.
Duquesne Frosh Trimmed 
By Plebe Quintet, 24-19
Carnegie Tech Piebes trimmed the 
Duquesne Universitys Freshmon 
basket ball team, defeating them 24 
to 19, In the preliminary to tho 
Grove City game. Amans and Rioter 
performed well for Carnegie each 
getting three field goals. Jackson, 
as guard, played a high grade game 
of basket ball. Ho also netted six 
fouls out of ten tries.
The Piebes have maintained an onviable record. So far they haVe won 
five gamos and lost two. These two 
games wore lost by a close margin 
and wore with teams to which it is 
no disgrace whatsoever to lose. Sev
eral of the boys on tho Plobo aggre
gation show promise of becoming 
very ablo varsity material In tho 
years to como.
Field goalsAmans 8. Reiter 3, 
Cook 2, Goodwin 2, Witt 2, Egan, 
Monahan 3, Ilohl, Suddors. Foul 
goalsWitt, 3 out or 8; Jackson, 4 
out of 10. SubstitutionsGoodwin 
for Cpolc, Monolmn for Clarry, Hoy] 
for Wilson, Sudders for I-Iohl, Wilson 
for Clairy. ReforooNichols.
So von men, the coach, tho manager, 
and the trainer will leave tonight to 
invade tho East in the hopes of brlngiug more glory to the Sklbo colors.
The baskot ball squad will journey 
, diioctly to Washington, D. C., tb meet 
I tho fast team from Catholic Univer
sity at. Brookland ou Friday evening 
of this week. The next evening they 
will tackle tho defiant quintet from 
Georgetown University In Washing
ton.
Even with three consecutive victo
ries from last week still clear iu tho 
| minds of the players, Coach Ben Lu
bic considers that the succoss of the 
eastern trip of two- games is soiuowhat doubtful, though his men have 
tho necessary confidence to oppose 
teams equally as good as any they 
have encountered so far this season.
All those who witnessed the last 
two games in tho Field I-Iouso are 
convinced that the Sklbo quintet has 
shown a deckled improvement and 
sufficient clock work to face most any 
floor team In the colloglato sphere.
As will be remembered tho repre
sentative team from Carnogle had no 
success on their onrly western trip 
and neither did they do moro than 
make a favorable showing against 
Penn State at Stato College sovoral 
weeks ago, but that Is not tho same 
team which will invade foreign torri 
tory this week. True enough tho 
same names almost to a man will ap 
pear In the Tartan lineup, but no ono 
would know that It wero tho same 
teamso superior has teamwork trlumphod during tho intervening weeks 
of. dally and nightly practice.
Catholic University and George
town University havo tho two strong
est teams In tho South Atlantic sec
tion nnd each of thom bid tho Carnogio lads a challenge well worth 
much commont. Last season Catholic 
University won from tho Scottish vis
itors at Washington and this yoar 
thoy oxpoct to ropoat tho victory, but 
do they realize that tho Sklbo Is keen 
to eraso tills dofoat? Georgetown al
ways has a spoody team and If tho 
Plaid can hold them to an Interesting 
game, that will bo all oxpoctod of 
thom by their own adhorors.
Tho following men will talco tho 
trip: Acting Captain Anderson, Don*
ahuo, Mefort, Gibson, Mohrman, Mat
ter, Dosey, Coach Lubic, Manager 
Kollor, and Trainer Munhall.
Plebes Win Speedy Game 
From Westingbouse Tech
D FOR
The Student
STAG TROUSERS
AND A
SWEATER COAT
MAKE A
COLLEGE SUIT
FOR
EVERY DAY
Exclusive Oakland Dealers for 
Stag Trousers.
Davies & Hughes
OAKLANDS MENS STORE 
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next to Strand Theater.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE*
*
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the quality 
and service.
A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
DISCUSSION AND ACTION
Were what we were after in our views on tho now gym last weolc. Per
haps we did put it a little strong in some of our statements but we want tho 
gym just as soon as we can get it and not two or three years lienee. We 
hope that the announcement that ground will be broken in April will hold 
true this time. The students can be patient but even patience is exhaustive.
OUR MAGGIE HURPHS
Open their basket ball season on Friday evening when thoy tackle tho 
Indiana Normal lassies at the Field I-Iouso. This Is tho first opportunity tho 
Carnegie students will have to view their girls in action, and tho support 
should bo of as high a calibre as that which the boys havo received. From 
the preliminary dope we have been getting, we are expecting to see a snappy 
game with tho Carnogle girls on tho long end of the score.
H. H. Wilson Elected jWasDWirse cDatoD, 
Cross Country Mgr.1 ,.'f cocc ri ahsrJrse
C. Hollingsworth to Manage 
Inter-Scholastic Track Meet
Tho interfraternity-dormitory bas
ket ball teams did not play the full 
number of games this week on ac
count of several postppnernents. 
There was one postponement in the 
National League and one in the Fed
eral League.
The League teams have been playThe monthly meeting of the Ath
letic Council was held In the Grad
uate Managers office last Wednes- j ing very good basket ball, and some 
day evening with the following mem- of the teams have a perfect standing 
bers present: Clarence Overend, Dr.! *n various leagues.
Marks, Dean A. W. Tarbell, Colonel 
Day, J. F. Laboon, L. H. Lee, D. A. 
Casey, B. N. Greenlaw and A1 Irwin.
The Council elected H. H. Wilson, a 
Junior in Commercial Engineering,
In the National League Iota Sigma 
Delta and Kappa Sigma Rlio still 
maintain the lead, their game last 
week was postponed.
In the American League Sigma Nu 
i still leading with no games lost.
In the Federal League XI Sigmamanager oCJhe cross country team j Up3Uon retains the lea(, by wlnning 
for next tali. The selection will meet: their game ]ast week against Theta 
with popular approval, as Wilson is ! Xi.
Last peeks scores are as follow,BA 
National League.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 27, Delta Phi
well and favorably known anout the j 
campus, having taken part in quite a 
few activities since entering Tech. j 
At present he is a member of the j
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, president of the j
Inter-Fraternity Basket ball League j 
and Athletic Editor of the Tartan, i 
In each work that he has taken part j
he has shown unquestioned abflifor L ; ............
and there is no doubt of his ultimate Kappa Siema Rllo
success In his new capacity. Wilson 1 gcoiJen Hall ..............
is a member of the Iota Sigma Delta 1 Beta Theta Pi ....................
Fraternity. j Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...
The Council also elected C. Hoi- j Delta Epsilon Omega ,...
lingsworth manager of tho Tech In-Delta Phi Delta ........
ter-Scholastic Track Meet to be held : Sigma Epsilon Phi ...........
at the Schenley Oval in the spring.
This meet is one of tho biggest of the i
year in scholastic circles and will be
participated In by practically all of j p^ppa Alphi*
the high schools In Western Pennsyl- j ^00(j]awn club
vania, making the task of handling rpau Qamma KE TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT
the affair a real ono. Hollingsworth Delta Upsilon ....................
has previous to tills shown his abil- Boss Hall .............................
In tho preliminary to tho Carnogli 
Tech-Wash I ngton and Loo gamo on 
Tuosday evening in tho Hold house, 
the Plobo dofoatod tho Wostlnghouso Tocli toam 2G-10.
BEELER WANTS 100 
JRACK CANDIDATES
Traclc_Schedule^ Includes 
Drake Relays,'1, Five [Dual 
Meets and Pitt Inter-Collegi
ate
Carnegie Girls Oppose
Indiana Normal Friday
With tho varsity baskot ball toam 
on a Journey to Washington, I). G to 
play Catholic Unlvornlty and Qoorgotown, tho Girls' Varsity basket ball
.................... ......... - - toam ^111 bo tho promlor homo atWostlnghouso lod tho Bcorpig | traction on Friday evening, when
throughout tho first half, and It 
loolcod as though the Plobos would 
havo a defeat scorod against lliem. 
In tho socond half Boolors squad 
cnmo back with a burst of spood that 
swopt Wostlnghouso down to dofoat.
Amans and Rolter did somo excel, 
lont field work whllo Jackson did 
wonderful work from tho foul lino. 
Tho entire Plobo toam showed good 
spirit and played In unison, scoring 
tlioir field goals through oxcoptlonal 
toam play.
Tho lineup:
Plobos20 Westlnghouse10
Amans.................. F...............................Hill
Reiter.................... F.......................Sldwoll
Cook...................... C.....................Muhloon
Jackson................ G...................McEhone
Goodwin............. G. ..............Doarbeck
Field goalsAmans 5, Rolter 2, 
Jackson, Hill 3, Muldoon 3, Sldwoll. 
Foul goalsJackson 8 out of 11, Hill 
5 out of 12. SubstitutionsEdie for 
Reiter, Freund for Sidwell, Jones for 
Cook, West for Jones, Cook for Good
win. RefereeNichol.
Delta 20.
Sobel Hall 25, Sigma Epsilon Phi 
10.
Iota Sigma Delta and Kappa Sigma 
Rbo postponed.
American League.
Boss Hall 1G, Delta Mu 12.
McGill Hall forfeited to Delta Upsllon.
Federal League.
Xi Sigma Upsilon 10, Theta Xi 7.
Henderson Hall and Welsh Hal1 
postponed.
STANDING OF THE LEAGUES
NATIONAL LEAGUE
AMERICAN LEAGUE
ably take care of the meet. He is ; 
also business manager of the Thistle, j 
and belongs to the Sigma Nu Frater
nity.
Though the 1923 football schedule 
is about completed, it will not be an
nounced until one of the games, about
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Xi Sigma Upsilon 
Beta Sigma Rho ..
Welsh Hall
been straightened out to the satis-1 Henderson Hall
faction of ail concerned.j Square and Compass
Won.Lost.
301.000
. 301.000
31,750
: i1.600
22.500
12.333
03.000
04.000
Won.Loat.
301.000
. 2J..000
21.000
1.000
22.500
. 22.500
13.250
04.000
Won.Lost.
01.000
301.000
2.500
11.500
02.000
02.000
03.000
they taeklo tho strong girls varsity 
from Indiana Normal. Tho game In 
schedulod to start at 8 p. m., and will 
bo played In tho Flold Houso,
Tho girls have boon practicing 
steadily for tho past throe weeks un
der careful direction of Miss Bow
man, who Is coaching tho team 
through their second season, last 
year being tho first ono In which the 
girls woro allowed to form a varsity 
baskot ball toam for lntorcolloglato 
competition. Last season ono game 
was won and two lost. This yoar a 
bettor record Is oxpectod, as tho play
ers aro moro oxporlonced, with their 
years playing back of thom.
Little 1s known regarding tho linoup for this game, as a large number 
of new girls are making determined 
bids for tho various positions, and 
Miss Bowman has her hands full malelng a decision between them. It is i 
certain though that Eloanor Cravor, j 
Bessie Bulmer, and Miss Markey will; 
have a chance to show tlioir ability, j 
as all three of these girls performed | 
in good manner last season. Natur
ally such sterling performers as Jean j 
Eakln, Isabelle Winner, and Helen I 
Reed will bo missed, but withal, it1 
Is expected that the girls will put up 
a good game, well worth seeing.
Helen MaCrum, manager of the I 
team, announces that Westminister' 
has been scheduled for two games, I 
both to take place in March. They I 
will be a home and home series.
Preparations ,uro under way to re
ceive one hundred candidates for tho 
1923 track team! Starting tills week, 
daily practice will be hold in tho Field 
House and on the now cinder track 
around the gridiron. Coach Beeler is 
pushing things along in a way that 
promises well for the success of Car
negie Tech on tho track and in tho 
field this season.
Winter training at the Hunt Ar
mory has come to a close and tho 
coach and runners feel that the early 
start has been worth while. Now that 
practice on tho homo field has start
ed, and with tho worry of examina
tions dispensed with, it Is thought 
that there will bo a great increase in 
track activities.
Tho olllco of tho Graduate Manager 
has at last released tho schedule, and 
a glance will Indicate tlio sort of com
petition to bo faced by Carnegie this 
year. Tho completed program is as 
follows:
April 2SOno team to Drake relays, 
and Marietta dual, here.
May 5Interscholastics and Geneva 
dual, here.
May 12Ohio State, hero.
May 19West Virginia, there.
May 26Navy, there.
June 2Pitt Intercollegiate.
Special mention should be made of 
the Drake relays at Drake, Iowa. It 
is at tlieso games that tho big West
ern Conference teams compote, and 
It Is very rare that sovoral rocords 
aro not broken by tho husky west
erners. Stiff or competition will bo 
faced by tho Plaid athlotos than at 
tho Ponn relays, and It Is a tribute 
to tho prowess of tho sons of Sklbo 
that Carnogle was invited to send her 
representatives.
Most of tho veterans and many as
pirants for tho squad havo reported. 
Captain Brumbaugh bus boon out 
quite regularly, and has boon showing 
good form. Dummy S/.old, Lockwood, 
Schllllngor, Sohuckor and others havo 
boon getting tho kinks straightened 
out. Dyltonmn, who has boon laid 
ui> with an Infoctod tonsil, will bo 
out In about a month. Jimmy Robert
son Is also getting In trim, and Pitt
man will bo out with tho Idea of bettorng Ills own record in tho broad 
Jump. Sprinkle and Comfort will 
again bo out for tho weight ovonts.
Among tho promising nowcomors 
may bn mentioned Holm, a sprinter 
from Avalon High; Joo Christoff, a 
sprinter developed by Coach Heeler 
at Johnstown High; Cramer, a quartor-mllor; Middleton and Anderson, 
weight moil; C. W. Flro, another quurtermllo man; Henderson, a polo 
vaultor from Coshocton, Ohio; Me
fort, a discus thrower, now playing 
varsity basket ball; Parrish, who doos 
tho hurdles In fast time, and man} 
others. In addition to those, Moran 
and Matter will be out after the closo 
of the basket, ball season.
There Is a big chance for Piebes 
who aspire to a managership, At 
yet, there have boon very few report
ing and several Freshmen assistants 
are noodod. The managerial staff is 
headed by Don Williams, a Senior In 
the College of Industries, lilnos M. 
Johnston and IDllls Robertson are 
first assistant, and E. C. Fra/,lor, M. 
Scrlmgoour, W. M. Wilson and O. H. 
Hill aro Sophomore candidates for 
tho managership.
Professor McCullough attended tho 
annual convention of the American 
Concrete Institute In Cincinnati last 
week.
!NDOM FNHUR R,.NL
Fifth Avcnuo Boot Shop
near 48ih Street. Nov/ Vcrk 
Style chocs of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
Tartans Defeat Wash-Lee
Carnegie Tech floormen defeated I 
Washington and Lee In the Carnegie | 
Teen gym, Tuesday night, 40-36. In 
tho first few minutes of play It looked J 
as if the result would be a, one-sided j 
score in favor of the Plaid, but at the 
beginning of the second half the vis
itors came back strong and it was 
only by the consistent work of An
derson on the foul line and tho super 
field shooting of Donahue that saved 
the Tartans from defeat.
At the beginning of the game Wash
ington and Loo played In a very poor 
fashion. After getting their hearings, 
Hines and Lake of the visitors made 
things interesting.
The second half saw Jimmy Do* 
Harts men uncork a flashy brand of 
basket ball and como from tho rear 
to within a few points of tho load. 
It was Jn this period that Iilnes 
showed his stellar playing.
The Skibos took things easy In tho 
second half on account of their largo 
margin, until Hines started Ills sharpshooting. Then Lubics crew played 
their usual hard game. The visitors I 
gave them a stiff argument and the j 
final score showed lliat they had j 
played a real game. ,
\
|"OT so many years ago 
(when some of us 
ours el vc wer under
graduates) the collej student 
was a hoodlum. Today hes as 
conservativ as can bebut 
with definite expression of 
his individualitynonethe less. 
Witness, John Ward Shoes. 
They ar made to meet the 
tastes of collej men: dignified, 
but carrying a note of real 
distinction.
The John Ward rcprcscntativ 
displays in
FRATERNITIES 
FEBRUARY 24
Stoici in NewYork JJrooklyn,Newark Phila./w Address lor Mali Orden lii Duant- atrcet-NcwYork City

---------------------------------------------------

Cost $10 
you can sell them 
for thousands
Why is a used book unlike a used 
car? Because the more you use it, 
the more you can sell it for.
Books make brains, and the world 
pays high for brain power.
The bulging dome on the library is 
worth emulating. It marks the way 
to bulging pockets.
Dont take our word for it. Ask 
some of the old grads, the men 
who have gone out before you to 
sell their books.
Some have sold them l or more than 
others. Why? Just ask.
But, >ou may say, books are not 
the only thing. Youre right.
Still, they help.
'/ Published in 
the interest of Elec
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what* 
ever helps the 
\ Industry.
Astern Electric Company
Since 1S69 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Number 26 of a series
ALUMNI PAGE
Dr. Baker Entertained by 
Philadelphia Clansmen
Dr. T. S. Baker wan entertained by 
tho Philadelphia Clan on tho evening 
of TueHday, February 0. The Clan 
galherod promptly at 7 o'clock at tho 
Hanovor Hotel to wolcomo Dr. Baker 
and to extend him the hoBpltallty of 
Tech I te B In the Philadelphia district.
After a delightful dinne!*, tho Clan 
president, P. W. Sclunldt, volcod tho 
wqolcoine of the Clan ana turned tho 
mooting over to Dr. Baker. Evoryone 
wan made happy, for the talk literally 
carried all back to the campuB at 
Pittsburgh, to each of tho four schools 
In turn, and then visioned the greater 
Carnegie Tech of the future. Even 
those of the Clan members who had 
not boon back to tho school for a 
number of yoara woro made to feol 
tho Intimacy and ploasuro of a fresh 
contact with school llfo and school af
fairs.
Those present Included: R. M.
Ward, L. E. Emrlch, M. W. Jones, F. 
J. Hurst, F. E. Swindells, E. E. Hobbs, 
J. Pi Bailey, Russell Davis, Max 
Freyd, 1:. Johnson, W. if. Miller, 
P. W. Schmidt, W. P. Llpplncott, Dr. 
Haukon Styro, J. S. Charles, II. Y. 
Sliaub, P. W. Emmol, B, D. Elsonburg,
C. S. Miller, Miss Dorothea Stelnmacher and Miss Elolse McMahan. 
Among the guests were Mrs. P. W. 
Schmidt, Mrs. J. P. Bailey, Miss 
Helen Conner and Miss Ethel Turner.
The Engineers Club was addressed 
by Dr. Baker earlier In the day, ar
rangements for this meeting having 
been put through by Mr. C. M. Stew
art, Engineering '13.
COUNCIL ASKED BY
PETITIONERS TO REORGANIZE
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
was outlined. MIrza Ilossoln Khan 
Alai, Persian minister to the United 
States, will bo the principal speaker. 
Ohio Nowman and Karl Snyder will 
entertain 'with novelty songs.
Jeffers and Miss Allison wore ap
pointed to take charge of the Student 
Friendship Drive for tho Council.
KING TIJTENKAMEN 
AT CLAN LUNCHEON
Birthday of Monarch Will be 
Celebrated Feb. 17 at 
Fort Pitt Hotel
The stage Is all sot ana waiting for 
the touch of llfo tobo added. King 
Tutonkamen, himself has been 
arousod from his long slumber and Is 
being rushed parcol post, special de
livery, to tho Fort Pitt Hotel to cele
brate his 0123rd birthday on Satur
day, February 17, 1023. The scene 
will ho laid In the main dining room 
and the fun will begin at 1:00 p. m. 
Old King Tut will bo given his ilrst 
glimpse of. how a very modorn Car
negie Clan conducts a real live, up-todato luncheon.
Our guests will include Dr. T. S. 
Baker, president of C. I. T., Dr. C. W. 
Potty, parlor of the THlrst Baptist 
Church (a veiy entertaining speaker), 
and Mr. Frank J. Lanalmn, Mr. Win. 
Frow and Mr. A. K. Oliver, trustees 
of C. I. T., and our athletes, who havo 
contributed so much toward the ad
vancement or tlioir Alma Mater in the 
past yoar.
Tho music will bo furnished by Mr. 
J. Y. OBrien. There will bo a read
ing by a member of the Drama De
partment. Dr, Petty will then speak 
and will bo followed by "Ohio New
man, president of tho "C Club. Af
ter that, as much of tho Tarlan foot
ball film will be shown as the audi
ence demands. The luncheon will 
then be brought to a close by the 
singing of the Alma Mater to tho mu
sic composed by Mr. OBrlon. Bettor 
brush up on tho words so we can raise 
tho roofthe hotel doesnt care how 
much noise wo mako.
If all that Isn't worth a dollar and 
a quarter wo miss our guess. Lot A. 
J. Ilynd, Alumni Office, Carnegie 
Tech, know that you aro coming and 
that you nre bringing someone or two 
or throe with you.
PRES. BAKER ADDRESSES 
WASHINGTON, I). C CLAN(HARRISBURG CLAN 
HEARS DR. BAKER
ADVERTISE AND GET RE8ULTS
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Stylo. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Ulead to Foot.
A.ny Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
0002 Jenkins Arcn,de Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfleld 341
Wednesday evening, February 7, 
tho Washington Clan hold a most 
successful meeting In tho form of a 
dinner at the Cosmos Club. Tho 
honor guost of tho evening was Dr. 
T. S. Baker. Tho members felt that 
this was an especially significant oc
casion since Dr. Baker had learned 
of his election as president of Car
negie but a few hours before.
After the dinner, Dr. Baker gave 
most Interesting talk on the general 
conditions at Carnoglo and the plans 
he Is making for tho future. An open 
discussion helped greatly to clear up 
somo of the question asked by the 
members.
Tho following eighteen members 
were present: Miss Ruth Cubtll,
Miss Kuthryno Harris, Miss Harriet 
Staples, Miss Marian Tlbbelts, Carl 
Zobol, Wm. H. Wagner, Alexander 
Pringle, Arthur Cassanova, Herbert 
W. Haller, Dimitri Dcmoncescu, Wm. 
Norman, Samuel Levin, I-I. R. Little,
S. F. Pickering, Earl Hammer, C. M. 
Whitman, J. R. Arnold und II. Ragsdalo.
During the day Dr. Baker ad
dressed assemblies at Central, East
ern and Western High Schools, these 
appointments having been made 
through the Washington Clan.
An announcement was made for the 
March meeting, to be held Saturday
10. It will no doubt be held in 
one of tho "shacks on the Potomac, 
tho use of which has been offered the 
clan by Harry Levy, and it is expect
ed tho affair will be in the nature of 
a welner roast." Plans are also be
ing made for a dance after Easter.
The members of the Washington 
Clan are urged to attend the basket 
ball game at Catholic University on, 
the 10th, and that at Georgetown Uni
versity on the 17th of this month. A 
section will bo reserved for Carnegie 
men at tho Georgetown game.
Irwin Resigns as Ind. Pres.
Carnegie President is Guest 
At Informal Dinner of 
Alumni, Monday
DRAMA DEPT. SKETCH
ON KEITH SCHEDULE
(Continued from Pago One) 
students are the Davis specialty 91* 
the occasion.
Tho cast is as follows:
Peg Harmon ......................Mary Owens
Peg Rlplpley ....................................Jessie
Harry Mervis ................Judge Parsons
Phil Thorne ..................!  Mr. Flint
Tho Incident Is dramatic In nature 
and concerns an Incident which takes 
place at the time of Lincolns death. 
Tho sketch lasts about eighteen min
utes and was forked up within si 
week by tho members of the cast.
An important feature of tho play
let; is that it was broadcasted by 
radio on Monday night. The Drama 
Department is gratified at those un
mistakable Indications of public in
terest In tlioir work.
The Harrisburg Club of Carnegie 
Tech Alumni met at the Penn Harris 
Hotel, Harrisburg, on Monday evonIng, February 5, at 7 oclock for an 
Informal dinner. Dr. T. S. Baker, 
now president of Carnegie, was one 
of the guests of tho evening. I-Ie out
lined for the benefit of the local alum
ni those features of the Institute 
which are of most pressing interest 
at the present time. Much interest 
centered around his description of the 
ups and downs of the Beanery" of 
fond memory. He was given a very 
cordial welcome and given the assur
ance of the Harrisburg Clan that they 
would be very glud to have him return 
for another visit.
One of the pleasantest events of 
tho evening was the appearance of 
Dr. C. B. Connelly, who, while as 
yet not fully returned to health, made 
a tremendous effort which culminated 
in his being present. Dr. Connelly is 
a great favorite with the Cariiegie 
folks around Harrisburg and was 
given a great ovation.
Mr. Gerald D. Whitney, president 
of the Harrisburg Clan was the toast
master of the evening. The commit
tee in charge of arrangements was 
headed by J. Ritchie Lawrie. The 
first speaker was Mr. Fred J. Hart
man, first president of the Harris
burg Clan. He was followed by Dr. 
Baker, who gave the principal ad
dress of the evening. The toastmas
ter then paid tribute to the three 
"Gold Dust Twins" whom lie charac
terized as being the workers of the 
organization. J. Ritchie Lawrie 
Henry Y. Schaub and M. Edwin 
Green were then called upon in turn 
to justify their reputation as workers 
of the clan. Mrs. Anna G. Green/ Su
pervisor of Home Economics in the 
Department of Public Instruction, and 
secretary of the local organization, 
was called upon for a few remarks. 
Dean Connelly responded to the fe
licitations tendered him upon his re
turn to health and gave an interest
ing talk of the past, present and fu
ture. Mention was made of the fact 
that Mr. and Mrs. C. D. Iiasness were 
leaving soon for Altoona where Mr. 
Iiasness has accepted a position with 
an architectural firm. He leaves a 
long term of honorable service in the 
School Buildings Bureau in tho De
partment of Public Instruction.
Tho following persons were pres
ent: Dr. C. B. Connelloy, Dr. Baker,
Mr, and Mrs. C. D. Busliong, Mr. J. 
M. (Red) Minick, Mr. and Mrs, C. D. 
Iiasness, Mr. and Mrs. R. J. Peters, 
Miss Lu. M. Hartman, Mr. and Mrs. 
Fred J.. Hartman, Mr. and Mrs. Henry 
Y. Schaub, Mr. and Mrs. M. Edwin 
Green, Mrs. A. G. Green, Mr. and Mrs. 
J. Ritchie Lawrie, and Mr. and Mrs. 
Gerald D. Whitney. It was announced 
that meetings would bo held at both 
Lancaster and York with tho Harris
burg members residing at thoso 
placos making arrangements for tho 
mootings.
DR. ROSENHAIN TO LECTURE
(Continued from Page Ono) 
tho electrical Holds. Ho is interna
tionally known as a leading scien
tist and authority on metallurgical re
search and in the glass and pottery 
fields also. Ho is a nutlve of Aus-, 
tralia, where he obtained a college 
education, supplemented later by 
studies at St. Johns College, in Cam
bridge. England.
For some years he was Technical 
Adviser and Director of Research 
with Chance Brothers, of Sheffield 
England, and at present is director 
of the National Physical Laboratory, 
at Teddington, England. In com
menting on the lectures, Professor 
Fred (^rnbtree, head of the Metal
lurgical Department, at Carnegie 
Tech, said: Dr. Rosenlmin is wide
ly known in this country to scientific 
men. He lias been a prolific writer 
on scientific subjects, particularly 
metallurgy, and has always been a 
leader in high grade research.
The lectures weve open to the pub
lic, special invitations being sent to 
the members of the Engineers So
ciety of. Western Pennsylvania, the 
Pittsburgh Section of the American 
Chemical Society, the American So
ciety of Steel Treating, Institute of 
Mining Engineers, the American Cera
mic iS'ociety, and other local scien
tific bodies.
The attendance at the lectures was 
good, and all those who were present 
derived some real good from the 
talks.
GAMBOL OF GUILDS TO BE
HELD IN UNION FRI. FEB. 23
(Continued From Pngo Ono.)
Tickets will be 011 snle this weok 
and tho whole of noxt week, and by 
reliable men, who are Instructed to 
see that only Carnogle students are 
permitted to como. Tho committoo 
fools that to make this dunce a real 
success it must, make it. a real Car
negie Toch dance and not open to the 
public, as all of tho other dances 
are at tho present. Admission will 
be granted to those having a ticket 
or else their registration card.
The price will be the same as last 
year, two-fifty and properly chaper
oned with dancing from 9 to 1. 
Something special lias been worked 
out in the form of programs, and 
likewise throughout, the whole dance 
the big idea in to make this dance 
different, and not like the usual 
dance in the Union.
j Al. Irwin resigned as president of 
j the Industries assembly at the meet
ing last week. Dean Morris explained 
the new system for excusing absences 
and three new piebes were introduced 
to the gathering;
After the minutes were read at the 
Industries assembly last Wednesday, 
Secretary Comfort read Al. Irwins 
resignation which gave his reasons as 
lack of time because of outside work 
and because he has insufficient num
ber of hours to permit activity. The 
resignation was accepted by vote of 
the assembly.
Vice President Throne then took 
the chair and nomination were* open
ed for election of president. ,W. A. 
Anderson, B. F. Throne, B. Powrie 
and A. C. Greenlaw were nominated. 
These names will be posted until the 
election. Further additions may be 
added by consulting the secretary.
Dean Morris explained the new sys
tem for excusing absences which has 
gone into effect. This system is a 
four-scliool change and consists chief
ly of an excuse blank in two parts, 
one to be kept by the head of the de
partment and one for personal record. 
The excuse is first taken to the head 
of the department for his signature 
and the short half taken off to be 
signed by the instructors from whose 
classes the absences occurred. The 
absences for all non-degree men, Fed
eral Board men and Freshmen will 
be recorded in the central office; all 
others will be recorded by the head 
of the department until they exceed 
the danger line, when they will be re
ported to the recorders office.
Three new Piebes were introduced 
by the Sophomores and entertained 
the assembly with some songs, cheers 
and dances. A Plebe trial which was 
to have taken place was postponed 
because of lack of time. The assem
bly was over about one oclock and 
was followed by an hour and a half 
of moving pictures of the steel in
dustry.
Bill Says:
Now that exams are over and the 
grades are out it is natural and fit
ting 'hat a little crabbing be done. 
We wonder how many instructors up
held that rule that is placed on the 
grade sheet that were sent to us, 
that is, that the upper third of the 
class shall receive As arid Bs, the 
middle third Cs, and the lower third 
Ds 'and Es. We dont like to kick 
but we remember that we have to 
make seventy-five P. Q. each semester 
and that rale is stnctiy adhered to.
ACTING PRESIDENT DR. BAKER 
ELECTED SCHOOL HEAD BY THE 
BOARD OF TRUSTEES FEB. 5
RAMESES RETURNS
FOR KARNAK FETE
(Continued From Page One.) 
priests crowned him with a golden 
wreathPharoali, incarnation of fate, 
great black lord of love and death.
After the coronation the slaves un
wrapped a mummy before the king. 
Through the magical powers of the 
high priest the mummy was restored 
to life and the nimble creature leaped 
in the abandon of a wild dance.
At 12:30 the king and queen follow
ed by the throng entered tho Little 
Theater and were there entertained 
by a sketch, Kleos Kourt. Mary 
Brown was the baby queen, who ruled 
her people. Her side kick, Jack Willard, had the job of keeping Kleo 
supplied with prisoners to entertain 
her. If the prisoners failed to pro
vide amusement they were thrown 
to tho crocodiles. Ross Hertz apd his 
bevy of well-trained chorus girls wero 
exceptionally good and were saved 
from tho terrible doom. "Obie and 
Ills wife "Doc" wore among Cleos 
prisoners and though they sang, 
danced and acted bettern over, they 
still displeased Cleo.
Immediately after the entertain
ment the faculty awarded the prizes 
for the best individual costumes. Miss 
received the prize for the
best; womans costume, and Miss Ma
rion Vero, night student, arid Mr. 
Karl Weber for the best couple cos
tume. Tho faculty had much difficul
ty in deciding tlio host costumes, for
(Continued from Page One) 
to literature. He was born March 23, 
1871, in Aberdeen, Hartford county, 
Maryland, and is a graduate of John 
Hopkins University with degree of 
A.B. in 1891, and Ph.D. in 1895. From 
1895 to 1900 he was Associate in Ger
man Language and Literature at John 
Hopkins, and from 1900 to 1908, he 
occupied the chair of Professor of 
German. In 1909 he became Director 
of the Jacob Tome Institute, at Port 
Deposit, Md., where he remained for 
ten years, leaving to accept the sec
retaryship at Carnegie.
During his ten years as Director of 
the Jacob Tome Institute, it became 
one of the most substantial and fa
mous boys schools in the East. And 
it was on account of his great person
ality and leadership shown at this 
school, that he was originally chosen 
as Secretary of Carnegie Tech.
A most prosperous future is pre
dicted for Carnegie under Dr. Bakers 
leadership, and we assure the Presi
dent that we will give him our hearty 
co-operation in the work he now takes 
up.
LATEST STYLES
FORMAL DRESS 
At Lowest Price 
in City
$3-50
Dress Suit Rental 
Company
404 PITTSBURGH LIFE 
BUILDING 
PhoneSmithfield 294
WESTINGHOUSE OFFICIAL
TO SPEAK TO A. I. E. E.
(Continued From Page t One.) 
travel. It need hardly besaid that 
these films and slides are of a very 
unusual nature and form an odd col
lection of great value.
The officers of the A. I. E. E. hope 
for a good turnout. The electrical 
engineering students have always had 
the name of being a live bunch, and 
surely no persuasion will be neces
sary to get a crowd out in Room 218 
at 8:15 on Thursday to hear a speaker 
like Mr. Hayes.
there were many exceptionally good 
ones. Dean Bossangq, Professor 
Goebgan, Professor Sternfeldt, Pro
fessor Bicknell and Professor Ashe 
were the judges.
A light lunch was then served in 
the library and following this danc
ing was resumed. Carltons orchestra 
from New York furnished the music 
and made a big hit with everyone.
At 4 a. m. (the sad part .of it) the 
lights blinked and told all that the 
Kapers of Karnak, tho most success
ful event in years, was over.
The committee headed by Carl 
Landefeldt is to be complimented for 
its hard work in making the ball a 
success. Especially tho decoration 
committee deserves much credit for 
the good work. The sphinx executed 
by Pnullne Dixon was a center of at
traction.
Pictures were taken of the decora
tions and costumes and will be on 
sale every day at 12:30 in the Arts 
foyer.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16
Buffalo Clan Meeting.
Basket BallCatholic University..................................... ............There
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 17
Pittsburgh Clan LuncheonFort Pitt Hotel...........................1:00 P. M.
Basket BallGeorgetown University ........................................... There
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY IS
Symphony ConcertCarnegie Music Hall, Pittsburgh.......8:15 P. M.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
DanceInter-HonoraryCarnegie Union ............................ 9:00 P. M.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, "Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSeeretaiy, G. D. Martin, 523 East Feny Street.
CHICAGOSeeretaiy, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSeeretaiy, II. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESeeretaiy, K. L. Konnertli, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Seeretaiy, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSeeretaiy, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Watf xce, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. I. H. Pille, 1420 Ninth Ave
nue, San Francisco.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Slienango St
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckalioe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
IWATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
After Every Meal
WRKLEYS
Chew your food 
well, then use 
WRIGLEYS to 
aid digestion.
It also keeps 
the teeth clean, 
breath sweet, 
appetite keen.
The Great American 
Sweetmeat
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits..........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
illlilllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllll 
 Compliments 
of
Skibo Inn
lllllllllllllilillilllllllliliillillllilllllli^
PAGETHE CARNEGIE TARTAN______________________________________________________________________________________WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1923
