'-f S tiIhr (Jaran
VOL. XIV. NO. 32CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY. JUNE 2, 1920
Carnegie Track Men Add Another 
Victory to Record, at Kennywood
Poor Judgment of Handicaps Prevent Margin of 
Points
CaiViftgie Tech track men added an
other easy victory to their undefeat
ed scores, Monday afternoon, when 
they carried away first honors at the 
twenty-first annual track and field 
meet at Kennywood park, with a total 
of 41 points, their nearest competitor, 
the Westinghouse club, scoring but 21 
points.
Peabody High got away with 10 
points and the next highest opponent 
had three points. Tech men obtained 
their advantage in the running events.
All races and events had a handicap 
attached to them and had it not been 
for the poor judgment of the judges 
in awarding the handicaps 8ech might 
have been victorious by a much wider 
margin. Kelly easily got first place in 
the 100-yard dash, but Nathan of 
Westinghouse and Arnold of Tech 
ran a close race for second place. Rus
sel failed to place. Neither Russel or 
Kelly got a handicap, while Nathan 
was allowed two yards and Arnold 
four yards. Arnold also ran away 
with the 100-yard novice at 11 seconds 
fiat.
Cooper and Code ran a pretty race 
against McClure of P. A. A., both 
passing him in the last 50 yards. Hill
er came out leading in the 440-yard 
dash and placed third in the 220, 
which he would have won had Dennis 
had a 10-yard handicap instead of 12 
yards. Cooper dropped out of the 
mile run and Greenlaw did not place.
Blesch got first place in four minutes 
43 4-5 seconds. Eilson, former full
back of the W. & J. football team, 
aided by a good handicap, did good 
work for the Westinghouse, defeating 
both in the high and in the broad
jump. Hanuuann jumped 21 feet and 
7 inches in the broad and Eilson man
aged to get 21 feet and 3 inches which 
with a handicap of one foot made 22 
feet and 3 inches.
The summary:
100-yd. dashKelly, Tech, scratch,; 
Nathan, Westinghouse, 2 yds. third, 
Arnold, Tech, 4 yds. Time 10 1-5 sec
onds.
220-yard dashFirst, Dennis, un
attached, 12 yds.; second, Metz, Tech, 
10 yds.; third, Hiller, Tech, scratch. 
Time 25 seconds.
440-yard dashFirst, Hiller, Tech, 
scratch; second, Martin, Peabody, 10 
yds.; third, Schmidt, Tech, 5 yds. 
Time 54 minutes and 2 seconds.
880-yard runFirst, Cooper, Tech, 
20 yds.; second, Code, Tech, 30 yds.; 
third, McClure, P. A. A., scratch. 
Time 2 minutes and 5 seconds.
1 mile runFirst, Bleasch, Tech, 
50 yards; second, Curtis, Tech, 50 
yds.; third, Rutlier, Pittsburgh Acad
emy, 10 yards. Time 4-43 4-5.
100-yard novice  First, Arnold, 
Tech; second, Hawkins, Tech; third, 
Hammann, Tech. Time 11 seconds flat.
Broad Jumpfirst, Martin, P. A. A. 
2 ft.; second, Eilson, Westinghouse, 1 
ft.; third, Daniel, Westinghouse, 1 ft. 
Distance 22 feet 3 inches.
High JumpFirst, Eilson, Westing
house, 3 in.; secodn, Robertson, Alle
gheny, G in.; third Toomy, Peabody, 
6 in. Heigh 5-9.
Shot putFirst, Hewitt, Westing
house, 2 ft.; MacNeill, Westinghouse, 
scratch; third, Ege, Westinghouse, 3 
in. Distance 39-5%.
Muskingum Goes Down
Under Techs Heavy Fire
Perhaps it was the spirit of Decora
tion Day, rememberance of ChateauThierry and the Argonne that prompt
ed the Plaid diamond nine to swing 
the old hickory so freely and effective
ly, which enabled them to defeat Mus
kingum College baseball team, Mon
day afternoon on Tech Field, by a 
score of 6-3.McCaw was in the best of form 
and had fine support. Harmon start
ed the game for Muskingum but the 
Tartans three runs and four hits in 
the opening inning caused him to be 
relieved by Wilson.Ray Doherty, in the opening frame, 
singled to deep short and advanced to 
third on Durkins two bagger to mid
dle field. Godden connected with one 
of his liking and sent it over the left 
fielders head for a three bagger, scor
ili-, Doherty and Durkin. Johnston, 
Techs leading hitter, accounted for a 
two base hit and Godden scored. Wil
son then relieved Harmon in the 
pitchers box and the Plaid men finish
ed the inning without another hit.
Wilson was holding up fine, but in 
(he third period the Tartans pushed 
three more men across the platter. 
Durkin took a walk. Godden singled 
to left field and stole second. Johnston 
fiied out. Lynn got a hit thru first and 
scored Durkin. Godden attempted to 
make home on this play, but was 
thrown out. Irwin got on first and 
.-.Iole second, both he and Lynn scor
ing on Oakleys two bagger to center. 
From then on, Wilson held the Plaid 
men to six scattered hits and without 
a score. Boyd opened the fourth stan
za for Muskingum, with a three bag
ger to Mellon Hall hill and scored on 
Shaw's double to left. Cochard hit a 
high bounder to Lynn, Shaw crossed 
the rubber, but Cochard was out makin  second. Again in the eighth, after 
two were out, singles by Boyd, Shaw 
and Cochard scored another marker 
for the visitors. The score:Tech.
Duvlcin, 2 
Godden, 1 
Johnstone, 
Lynn, s .. 
Irwin, c .. 
Child ev, r 
McCar: v
R.B.P.A.E.
02221
139009,1140
12100
09100
12120
101111
01000
00110
01327102
Muskingum.
R.B.p.A.E.
Lobaugh, 3 . .......... 01130
Graham, c .............. 00800
3031Shaw, 1...................... 10900Cochard, 1................ 02000
Shane, 2 ....................01300Brown, 1 ...................01000
1-1 Kirk, r.................00210
Harmon, p ............. 00000
Wilson, p ........00100
Totals ............. 3102471
Two base hitsDoileskis, Durkin, 
Johnstone, Wynn, Oakley, Lobaugh, 
Shaw. Three base hitsGodden, Boyd. 
Double playKirk to Shaw. Stolen 
bases  Doherty, Durkin, Godden, 
Johnstone, Lynn, Irwin. Bases on 
balls Oil' Harmon I, oil Wilson 1. 
Struck out- - By McCaw 9, by Wilson 
7. Umpire Daugherty. Time2:00.
BASEBALL TRIP THIS WEEK
Honus Wagners diamond nine go 
journeying this week. They have suf
fered but two defeats this season and 
even the best of ball teams lose. Their 
three-game trip this week is the cli
max of the season and they are deter
mined to bring home the bacon or die 
in the attempt.
Thursday morning they leave Pitts
burg and meet Juniata that afternoon 
at Huntingdon. Juniata, altho it was 
a ninth inning rally, has lost one game 
to the Tartans. Juniata played no real 
baseball when they played Tech and 
only George Stallings, the Miracle 
Man of the big leagues, could convert 
them into a winning team Thursday 
afternoon.
Bucknell University is the next vic
tim on the list. This is the first game 
with Bucknell this season and not 
much opposition is expected. Satur
day however, the Plaid warriors will 
have a hard proposition on their hands 
when they meet Hugo Bezdecks pro
teges at State College. Bezdeck, for
mer Pirate pilot has a team worthy 
of Penn State and they hope to annul 
the defeat handed their tennis team by 
the Plaid netmen. Honus Wagner is 
doubtful about the results of Satur
days game, but the boys are going in 
with the determination to win or give 
the Mt. Nittany lions the battle of 
their lives and Techs doggedness and 
fight is a fear among athletic teams.
gg
| Dont fail to attend the biggest, beit 
Smoker in the History of Tech.
Alumni Athletic Smoker2SCarnegie Union
Saturday, June 5th.
ORDER OF THE MARCH 
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
Following the usual Commencement Day custom, 
the Marshalls will form the students in a column ol twos 
at 9:20 oclock Monday morning, June 7th in the first 
floor corridors of their respective buildings. The order 
of March will be seniors, juniors, sophomores, and fresh
men.
The seniors and undergraduates of the Margaret Mor
rison Division are to assemble promptly at 9:15 in the 
first floor corridor of the Margaret Morrison Building. 
At 9 :20 the line of march will move towards the Central 
Building to join those of the other three Divisions.
The procession will start promptly at 9:30 A. M. 
Those in the line of march will not require cards of ad
mission to the Commencement Exercises. The Student 
Council requests all of the undergraduates to participate 
in the march.
liiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiniiiinir
H. G. Nichol Elected President 
at La& Student Council Meeting
Campus Week Committee Submits Report
The Student Council held its last
meeting of the year on Wednesday, 
May 26. H. G. Nichol, Division of 
Science and Engineering was elected 
President for the incoming year. Fin
al reports of all committees were re
ceived.
Plans for the Council next year 
were worked out whereby Freshman 
hats, socks, ties, pennants and bag
gage transfer will be handled under 
the jurisdiction of the Student Coun
cil, 25 per cent of the profits to be 
divided among the four divisions and 
the remaining 75 per cent to be turned 
over to the Athletic Association.
The Council wishes to thank Mr. F. 
I. Lawson, Chairman of Campus Week 
Committee, the General and Sub-Committees for the splendid work in put
ting Campus Week across and making 
it such a great success.
REPORT OF THE CAMPUS 
WEEK COMMITTEE
In order that this report may be 
of use as a guide for future commit
tees on asimilar projectshould it 
actually be referred to in the future 
and not lost in the shuffle of chang
ing organization from one year to the 
nexta review of the events and ac
tivities .planned by thecommitteefor 
Campus Week will be dispensed with 
by reference to the program attached 
and an attempt made to coniine it to 
a survey of the difficulties encounter
ed with suggestions for overcoming 
them next yeartaking it for granted 
that the following classes will con
tinue in our footsteps by keeping 
Campus Week on the list of school activities.
Naturally some of the events did 
not go off according to schedule, due 
principally to the extreme coolness of 
the weather, though in spite of this 
there seemed to be a sufficient num
ber of activities in progress to keep 
most everyone interested all of the 
time. In fact, as it turned out, the 
Junior Class Tree Planting was 
squeezed in somewhat Friday noon 
and thus did not get the time nor the 
attention of the undergraduates that 
a ceremony of this character deserves. 
Again, extra innings for the baseball 
game were not included in the prelim
inary estimate of time allowed for this 
event and consequently it would have 
been difficult to get a sufficient gath
ering for the May Day Dances had the 
weather allowed of their being given. 
However, with warm weather there is 
no reason why these dances could not 
be made the nucleas for a lawn fete 
with picnic lunches, or some similar 
campus gathering, as a bridge be
tween the afternoon games and the 
program of the evening.
As to the choice of date, in view of 
circumstances as they existed this 
year and as brought out in a letter 
to Dean Tarbell attached, it is believ
ed there can be no doubt but what 
the undertaking was far more success
ful than it would be had it been sched
uled for the commencement season. If 
some means can be secured of obtain
ing the undergraduate support as well 
as a number of activities such a Qual
ification Day, atheltic events, etc., to 
round out the program, Campus Week 
might offer a fitting close to the school 
year, though examinations and the 
usual rush incident to the closing of 
school offer serious difficulties to the 
commencement date.
Another matter in connection with 
the time of Campus Week which is 
worthy of considerable forethought is 
that of getting the various depart
ments and organizations of the school 
whose work is closely allied with the 
activities of Campus Week, interest
ed as departments more than they 
were this year. This requires coope
ration with and by the faculty. The
Building Construction Department co 
operated wonderfully this year,! due 
largely to the work og Mr. Simmons 
in whose very good care all the Iconstruction work was put. The Dimma 
Department this year was in 1 the 
midst of intensive preparations I for 
some of its major productions andKvas 
therefore unable to render to tho 1-cir
cus the support that might be expect
ed of it, though the work of some! of 
its members is to be highly comnjiended. An attempt should also be made 
to get school credit for work on! cos
tumes and such thingsnot only to 
eliminate or reduce expense blit to 
make circus production as much as 
possible a school affair.
But perhaps the biggest difficulty 
encountered was that of getting tho 
student body interested in theI pro
gram to the extent of securing active 
aid in putting 011 acts or stunts for 
the circus. Much active interest! can
not of course be expected too far in 
advance of the date of the perform
ance, but a few big features for the 
curcus should bo planned well ahead 
as a good strong framework for tho 
best of the show. Various attempts 
to call people out were tried bu that 
did not produce the results denirod. 
Seeing the difficulty that was >oing 
encountered, Mr. Buchanon, wh> had 
been appointed to take charge c f the 
circus, resigned from the circus com
mittee two weeks before the per orm 
ance. In his place two men, Mr, Repplier and Mr. Cunningham wore/called 
in and the way in which they got be
hind the circus and pushed it through
I /> ( Un 1111 1111 (I ir.li fli.nni.ir/. I 4 1...to the success it was deserve 
highest praisethough after 
more than should be given to M 
bright for his work as Business 
ager of the circus and concessioi 
Mr. Townsend for the work he 
working up the sideshows, it i. 
hoped that in another year the 
school will see the possibilit! 
Campus Week and its various 
ties, and will step rnto the respor 
ty of making the undertaking
cess as these people have this ye ir, for
it is up to the school to keep its 
ni interested in it if the alum 
to mean anything to the school
tl J! no
. SeaMan, and 
lid in 
to be 
whole 
es i 11 
activibilisueal tim
are 
as of
course they should. The possibilities 
revealed by this years Campus Week 
are but a small indication of vhat it 
can mean in years to come whep more 
and more of the alumni come back in 
a body as class organizationc,| as M. 
M. D. 10 did this year.
The preliminary report on he fin 
ances indicates a much better o itcorne 
than had even been hoped fir. To 
pay expenses was the only-dt sire of 
the committee, but admission had to 
be charged to some events to n eet the 
expenses incurred and also 11 make 
people believe they were gettin ' some
thing as it does not seem thjy will 
believe if everything is free. For its 
most complete success howeve , mon 
ey-making should not be one of the 
objects of Campus Week.
Regarding the surplus that 
turned over to the Student 1will be 
,'ouncil,the committee would recommend that
300 be given to the Student Ativities
Board with the understandii g that 
this amount will be availa tie for 
Campus Week next year, thus paying 
back the .$275 received fron that 
Board to help finance this years pro
gram; and that of the remain ler, $50 
be given to the Y. W. C. A. 0 the M. 
M. D. and the balance, whicl will be 
about $300, be given to the Athletic 
Association, not only becaus: of the 
worthiness of the cause in th< case of 
both of these organizations, >ut also 
in consideration of the fact that part 
of the profits are due to thL profits 
earned by them in handling of the 
concessions, the concession agreement (Continued on page 4.1
Tech Tennis Men Defeat New York 
State Champions in Fast Contests
Syracuse Has Downed W. & J. and Pitt
game, while Stoekslagei* was erratic 
and loose in his playing. The New 
Yorker had the next set 5-3 and the 
score was deuce and then set point in 
the last game when Stockslager came 
back with three straight points and 
four games and won the match. It 
was Stockslagers strong spectacular 
net playing, his ability to come up to 
the forward court for a swift, sharp
angled volley and his sudden im
provement as a tactician that gave him the advantage.
The featuring player of the tourna
ment seemed to be Captain Stock
slager as the next spectacular match 
was the doubles in which the Plaid 
pilot added to his honors of a coup 
detat of his singles match. Beatty 
had 110 control over his serve and his 
judgment was poor. Legros speedy 
serve and fast all-around game was a 
little to much for the Tartan lads in 
the first set. In the second set Tech 
overcame a three-game lead and won 
10-8. Beatty showed improvement and 
Stockslagers net work was at its best. 
Many times during this set, the four 
men were at the net and fast net ral
lies ensued in which the ball passed 
between them 8 to 10 times. The 
Skibos consistently forced their oppo
nents into rallies of this kind and they 
resulted unfalteringly in favor of the 
Tech men. The long sets had bogun 
to tell on the Syracuse men, thoy 
were slowing down and were unablo 
to offer any opposition in the next set 
which Plaid men won 6-3.
Davis and Marshall had no trouble 
in defeating their opponents in tho 
singles. Marshall got one sot, allow
ing his adversary but sovon points. 
The doubles in which Davis and Mar
shall playod, proved to bo as easy as the singles. The summary:
Singles- Legros, Syracuse, defeated 
Beatty, Tech, (1-4, (5-3; Davis, Tech, 
defeated Champlin, Syracuse, 7-5, 0-3; 
Stockslager, Tech, defeated Wheeler, 
Syracuse, G-3, 1-0, 7-5; Marshall, 
Tech, dofoatod OHara, Syracuse, 0-0, 7-5.
Doubles Stockslager and Beatty 
defeated Legros and Wheeler 3-d, 
10-8,0-3, Davis and Marshall defeated Champlin and O'Hara (1-2, 8-0.
The all-confident self-same netmen 
that have represented the University 
of Syracuse all season in their won
derful record of victories and who 
have achieve*! for themselves the hon
or of holding the first position among 
the collegiate tennis teams of New 
York State, met their Waterloo when 
they clashed with the Tartan racqueteers, Saturday afternoon on the 
Tech courts, the Tech men handing 
them a 5-1 defeat.
Having downed W. & .1. and the 
University of Pittsburgh by scores of 
4-2 and 5-1 on the two previous days, 
the Salt City men were fighting tio 
take home a clean slate, but Col. 
Brooks lads were also fighting for 
their ninth consecutive victory and 
the result was one of the most hrtilling and spectacular tourneys over 
staged 011 the Tech courts, with the 
Empire Staters coming out 011 the 
bottom. Altho humbled, the Syracuse 
team left 11 the best of spirits, know
ing that they had been outplayed.
Legros proved to be the stellar man 
for the Syracuse bunch, defeating 
Beatty in the first singles match. Lc*- 
gros was consistent in his playing, posessed hard, fast serve with an uncer
tain kink in it, returned drive for 
drive, and displayed wonderful accu
racy in his speedy returns. Had Baatty been playing his regular game, Le
gros would have had a harder time in defeating the old-timer.
Captain Stockslager and Wheeler 
gave the spectators all that they 
might expoct in the way of thrills and 
uniqueness. Stockslager, who always 
followed up his serve wit ha wonder
ful net attack proved unfathomable 
to Wheeler and easily got tho first sot 
6-3. However, in tho next sot Wheel
er tightonod down 011 the Plaid cap
tain and was too steady and too 
crafty and outguessed him in the ral
lies. Time and again-Wheeler passed 
Stockslager, who elected to play the 
net, cleanly with drives just inside the 
side lines or forced him into error 
with shots that were placed with un
erring judgment in the far corners, 
Tho Syracuse man easily got the net 
0-1.
Wheeler still playing his consistent
Plaid Netmen Now Claim Western 
Pennsylvania Tennis Championship
By defeating tln W. & .1. racquet, 
woldlers, Friday afternoon by a score 
of 5-1 the Plaid netmen now lay claim 
to the Intercollegiate tennis cham
pionship of Western Pennsylvania. 
Last year the Red and Black team 
held the championsljip but I'YIday 
they were no opponents for the Tech men.
Kamosy defeated Stockslager in the 
singles and scored the only count for 
the lied and Mlaek. Uamesys lobbing 
game was a little too much for Stock
slager. lieatty played a fine game and 
Captain Garbiseli was powerless, altho 
Beatty eased up in the second set and 
was forced to get seven games to win
AVO CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS
The Avo Club held its regular meet
ing on Wednesday, May 26, and elect
ed officers for the year 1920-21. The 
officers elected are JJ. Guyton, pres
ident (reelected): A. W. Grieb, vicepresident; It. Walman, secretary; W. 
Rohrback, treasurer; and C. Cousino, 
publicity manager.
Plans for a picnic and barn dance 
for the members of the Club, to be 
held Saturday, June 5, were discussed 
and a committee appointed to look 
after the details.
Plans were also discussed for get
ting an early start in the Fall Quarter 
and having an even more successful 
year than the one just closing.
-Ct-E PLEDGES PAIO
The following pledges have been 
paid to the new Athletic Council: 
Industry Sophomores, $25.00;
Tech Mechanics Club, $10.00; 
Building Const. Club, $10.00.
the second set, Davis an usual got 
his match and Marshall had no trou
ble in trimming Heiminger.
The doubles matches were a walk 
away, there being two 0-1 sets and 
one love set. Tho summary:
Singles lieatty of Toch defeated 
(iarblseh of W. & .1. (1-1, 7-5; Davis 
of Tech defeated Wilcox of W. & .1. 
0-2, (1-2; Stockslager of Tech lost to 
Ramsey of W. & .1. 2-0, 4-0, and Phil 
Marshall of Tech defeated Monnlngor of W. & J. (-4, 0-3,
Doubles -Stockslager and Beatty of 
Toch defeated Garbisch and Ramsey 
0-3, 0-1; Marshall and Davis defeated 
Heiminger and Wilcox 0-1, 0-0.
UNIQUE FINANCIAL PLAN OF 
.........TECII FRATERNITY
One of the most unique financial 
plans ever devised for a college fra
ternity has been adopted recently by 
the Penna Phi Chapter of Sigma Al
pha Epsilon fraternity at Carnegie 
Tech. Dr. D. T. James, a former stu
dent at Carnegie Tech, and a charter 
member of the chapter is largely in
strumental for the success of the plan.
Under this plan, the members of the 
fraternity have each insured theii 
lives on the endowment arrangement 
in favor of their chapter. The insur
ance is with the Equitable Life Insur
ance Co., and is similar to the plan 
carried out for the benefit of the 
school at Penn State. Within the next 
week or two a campaign will be con
ducted among the chapters alumni in 
the interest of the insurance plan, thus 
assuring the chapter a firm financial 
basis on which to build its chapter policy.
Investigation has revealed that this 
is the first time in the annals of Amer
ican college fraternities that the plan 
has been tried, and its success will be 
watched with interest.
1920 THISTLE
Co-operate and call for your Thistle, if you ordered one. Book will bo sold to everybody regardless of whether they subscribed or not. Office open Wednesday and Thursday, 11:30 to 1:30. Room 185 Industries Building. 
CO-OPERATE

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1920
STUDENT CALENDAR
June 2Science Senior Banquet..........................................................Hotel Chatham
June 3M. M. D. Soph Dance to Senior.......................................................Union
June 3Senior Theatre Party...............................................Division of Industries
Dune 4All Day Outing l'or SeniorsCamp Louise Carnegie, Glencaim, Pa.
Llune 4....2 P. M.~ Tennis Match, Tech vs. Bucknel!.....................Tech Campus
IJune 44 P. M,- Recital by Students of School of Music, Theatre, Division 
of Arts.
June 48:80 P. M.Outdoor Performance of John Miltons Comus by
Students of the School of Drama.............Garden Theatre, Tech Campus
June G I P. M.Senior Luncheon M. M. I).............................Fort Pitt Hotel
.'June 52 P. M.~ Dual Track MeetTech vs. Dennison...................Tech Field
June 55 P. M.Festival, M. M. D.................................................Flag Staff Hill
June 58 P. M. Alumni Federation Smoker...............................................Union
jJune 69 P. M.Senior Party.........................................................Division of Arts
June G- 4 P. M.---Freshman Tea for Seniors, M. M. D.....................Mellon Hall
June (> B P. M.Baccalaureate Sermon by the Reverend H. E. Fosbroke, 
I). D., Dean of the General Theological Seminary, New YorkTheatre 
Division of Arts.June 7 10 A. M.Commencement Exercises.................Carnegie Music Hall
June 712:30 P. M.Reception and Luncheon to Seniors and their parents 
by President and Mrs. Hamerschlag, the Directors and Deans and their 
wivesPompeian Room, Carnegie Institute.
June 73 P. M.- -Alumnae Tea in Honor of Seniors, Faculty Parlors, Mar
garet Morrison Division.
June 78:30 P. M.Commencement Ball for Seniors, Juniors, Alumni and 
Faculty..........................................................................Foyer, Division of Arts
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postofflce of Pittsburgh a second-claws matter.B*il Phefvee B7* A. 11 #9
P. A A. 1Bt-R 
*2* ATW003 STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Hove* he Id Qoede Meved, Stered, 
Paefced and Shipped.
The Mellon National Bank la 
one of the moat thoroughly 
organized,  tronge*t financial
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
6c the copyCanada, $1.76This year f 1.60
Phone Hazel 9422
Business Man age iPhone Hazel 9426.
School Editors
M. M. D.................Margaret J. Griffen
Science...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries ..................... Ralph Shanrno
Arts..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzonbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer 
I. M. Zebest 1. T. Sissman
EDITORIALThird United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
Aasifttnnt Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
J. T. Ames
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Associate News Editor 
W. DI HallKniipf (ttongrrgatinn
Fifth and Morewood Avenue.
Samuel H. Goldenuon, Ph. D., Rabbi.
Temple Study Tel., Schenley 276. 
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
Athletic Editor 
Fred L. KnowlesHamerschlag, the Directors and 
Deans and their wives. Pompeian 
Room, Carnegie Institute. 3:00 P. 
M. Alumni Tea in honor of Sen
iors. Faculty Parlors, Margaret 
Morrison Division. 8:30 P. M. Com
mencement Ball for Seniors, Jun
iors, Alumni and Faculty. Foyer, 
Division of the Arts.
 BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 1
CHURCH 
Selleftaid and Fifth Avonwea 
n*v. Robert MacOewan, D. D 1 
Mlnleter.
Prsxjohlng Servloea 11 and ft. 
Sunday soheol at 10.
Christian Endeaver at 7.We want the Tech boys to at-  tend our servloes and learn to '
 know us mi the congregation ot  
\ "Frlanelly Popl*." A hearty 1 
. wnloome awaits you.
Assistant Athletic Editors 
G. R. Goodrich 
S. P. Smith
BUSINESS STAFF 
R. F. Lunger 
Win. Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. CohenGrace ChurchCirculation Manager 
H. G. Atchley(Rofermod)
AYARD and DITHRIDQE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICE:Sunday Sabool9:48 A. M.Horning Worship11^4, liL Social Hour and Luncheon tor stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL A cordial welcome to all Students. 
Fifth Ave. and Oraig St.Masses: 8:80, 8:00. 9:00, lo:00 and
11:0 A. M. o* Sundays and Holy 
Dajm.Veeyars on 8undays at 7:80 P. M.Penr 58, Middle Aisle, for Took StRoom 162, DesignTARTAN OFFICEThe regular May meeting of the 
Tech Branch of the A. I. E. E. was 
held on the evening of the 27th, in 
lloom 11, Machinery Hall. This meet
ing) being the last of the present year 
the officers for the year were elected. 
Th'e results of the election were:
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.NOMINEES
rj For Officers of the Student As- M 
| sembly Division of Industries M 
President 
lg H. C. Hammann H. W. Lynn 
R. W. Arnold 
Vice-President 
| J. E. Hess W. A. Duff
P. D. Good 
Secretary 
fei II. C. Godden G. M. Murphy I 
H. C. Walker 
Treasurer 
Pi H. E. Hamill II. McCaw
| R. J. Carr M. L. Wright
 I
.(ilillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliillillillllllllllllllllllllllllii
The Editor-in-Chicf is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once. *Chairman .....................A. J. Hanks 21
Vlfve Chairman............E. A. Brand 21
Secretary.................W. S. Andrews 22
Treasurer ..................W. A. Keller '21
PMmanent Sec...P. S. Donnell, Facy 
A. M. Elliott 21 
Executive Committee
R. C. Corderman 22 
J. B. Johnston '22
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHUROtt
Bllewerth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Aaeletant. Sunday 0nrloea, 8:00 A. M., 11 :H A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
Collttflfe Mon's Bible Olaaa at 10:M, led by Dr. Calvin.
All Qtwiorrtio Gwxninviy WatoenM.i- '-ri
THE SMOKER
The first Alumni-Athletic Smoker, as it is called, will be held in the 
Union, Saturday night. All the friends of Tech, the Alumni and Faculty, are 
invited. Coach Walter Steifen will be there if it is possible to get him, and 
the members of the athletic teams who have won so many victories for Tech 
this spring will be the guests of honor.
But the biggest item in the program is you! If the undergraduate body 
as a whole shows up at this smoker and exhibits a brand of pep worthy of 
our teams this year, the affair will be a howling success. If every man asked 
to pull off a stunt by help in any way with the entertainment or management 
of this smoker does his part with enthusiasm, or at least a good grace, the 
occasion will be one to be remembered. If you are on the job you can put 
it over. Its up to you.
The program for the evening was 
opened by Prof. A. J. Wurts, who 
made a short address of welcome to 
the incoming classes.
A. paper Electrification of Rail
roads was presented by L. II. Hale 
20. This paper was very interesting 
und consisted of an illustrated history 
of the various important railways 
electrifications in this country, begin
ning with that of the Iloosack Tunnel 
on the B. and M. and following the 
development through to the present 
expended installation of the C. M. and 
St. Paul. In the discussion following 
the paper Prof. Dennison developed 
tli.i! subject of the immense saving's 
which might be accomplished by the 
electrification of all railroads.
A second paper New Possibilities 
in Hydro-Electric Development, was 
presented by F. 1. Lawson 20. In this 
paper Mr. Lawson made a careful 
analysis of the power requirements of 
tht* country and explained to what ex
tent the problem could be solved by 
thot development of our water power. 
He also made a point of the difficultion which attend the financial and 
leg,111 phases of hydraulic power devel
opment. The paper was illustrated 
with Humorous views of large modern 
projects, which gave a good idea of 
the extraordinary difficulties encount
ered in this particular field.
At the close of the program the 
mooting was adjourned to the club 
room for a social hour, where refresh
ments were served.
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
at Harvard
COMMENCEMENT
The proper occasion for the undergraduates to give the 1920 Seniors of 
Tech a last send-offto show them the respect which their four years 
work on the campus has won themit at the commencement exercises to be 
held next Monday.
The other three classes are asked to act as excort to the Seniors on tin/ 
march from the Central Building to Carnegie Music Hall. Your place is in 
your class position in your Divisonal group in the formation. Dont get your 
girl from Arts or M. M. I), and walk down a little bit ahead of the parade in 
order to got there firstnot to mention the distinction of not being one of 
the mob. This practice has become so prevalent of late that it is some
times difficult to toll which is the official lino and which the sidewalk crowd 
hurrying down to sit beside his best girl.
So much for how you got there. The more Important consideration is 
that you start at all. Some departments of the school make no allowance 
wlmtovor for the activities of the Institution as a wholelaboratory classes 
of all kinds are called for hours which conflict with celebrations which should 
have first consideration. This is the fault of the faculty, and it is to them 
that we appeal to remedy one side of the difficulty which has become com
mon. The other side rests with those students whose social duties or whose 
studies Interfere with their school spirit to such a degree that the spirit 
simply gives up the ghost and the former class, we believe, is in the ma
jority by a long way. Just remember that you will be a Senior some day 
If you stick long enough and dont got brain fag, afid that maybe you will 
expect and appreciate the courtesy then which is now in your power to 
show, and turn out 100 per cent strong to escort the Seniors on the last 
occasion in which you will participate with them.
(ioliege men, old and young, have 
always been "strong for Fatima. 
The most recent evidence of this is 
ail investigation made by Harvards 
famous publication, "The Lampoon,  
which shows Fatima to be the best
selling cigarette among Harvard 
Students.
A WOKI) VKOU 'I'M 1C GRAUUATU MANAC'ilOK
The record breaking progress of spring sports in Carnegie is such as to 
cause the surrounding country to sit up and take notice, rub their eyes and 
wonder what it happening at the institution in Schenley Park. The answer 
is, that under the present stimulus of the most wonderful student spirit and 
pep in her history, with complete cooperation on the part of the student body, 
administration, alumni and all concerned, the far-famed and noted fighting 
spirit has come to the frontvictorious. This fact together with the sincere 
and enthousinstic work of Coaches Wagner, Hazel anti Brooks in developing 
the best material Carnegie has had in years, has given us the greatest spring 
athletic record in our history. A continuance of the same loyalty and en
thusiasm, willingness and sincerity will give Carnegie Tech a football team 
next fall, that will be in the same class as our present teamsthe best yet.
By action of the Student Council, an arrangement has been sanctioned 
whereby the freshmen caps, ties, socks and pennants heretofore sold by the 
different classes and the transfer of student baggage shall be handled under 
the jurisdiction of the Student Council, the profit accruing therefrom to be 
divided in the following ratio, 25 per cent to the Student Council to defray 
club room and other administrative expense, 75 per cent to the Athletic As
sociation, to go to a fund to provide for the purchase of football blankets. 
This action serves the double purpose of providing a definite fund for the 
football blankets and the elimination of the customary assessments of the 
freshmen classes for the upkeep of the club rooms and the purchase of foot
ball blankets which by precedent have always been provided by the entering 
classes.
I would also like to call the attention of all to the request of Mr. Unsi cher, student manager of football that information concerning available or 
prospective football men be turned in to him on blanks which will be provided 
either by himself or at my office. It is very essention that every one cooper
ate in this matter so that Coach Steffen may have the information at hand 
when the selections are made for the squad to report to the fall training 
camp. Present plans provide for the camp at Camp Louise Carnegie com
mencing about September 18th and the number applying for accommodation 
nt the present time indicates the very great interest in this forerunner of 
the football season. Remember to hand in the name of any athlete who in
tends to enroll at Carnegie next year and likewise do your utmost to show 
athletes graduating from prop schools, the varied and unexcelled advantages 
of an education at Carnegie Tech.
Finally arrange to bo present at the big Alumni Athletic Smoker at the 
Union next Saturday evening. Let the present cycle of "the best ever be 
continued and let everyone be present to mingle with the alumni, the coaches, 
the faculty, the Varsity men of former days, the present Varsity teams and 
squads who will be the guests of the evening as well as a goodly number of 
Tecli friends and admirers. It is the plan of the committee to make this 
celebration of the victories of Carnegies most successful track, baseball and 
tennis teams, an event to go down in history as the big smoker. This day 
will end the season of the track men who will compete in a dual meet, with 
Dennison University, the results of the Tech-State baseball game at State 
will be announced and the results of the Michigan and Buclcnoll matches will 
be hashed over by the tennis sharks. A great bill of varied entertainment 
has been arranged and everything is set for :i regular Carnegie celebration. 
Every Tech man who can possibly do so, will be there and this notice is to 
be regarded as an invitation to all to come along. All out for the big 
celebration. FRANK H. IIAAREN, Graduate Manager.
Tuesday, June 1st2:00 P. M. Senior 
Sivim, Division of Science and En
gineering. Pittsburgh Athletic As
sociation.
Wednesday, June 2ndG:00 P. M. 
Sonior Banquet, Division of Science 
and Engineering. Hotel Chatham. 
8:00 P. M. Senior Banquet, Wivision of Industries. Fort Pitt Hotel.
Thu rsday, June 3rd7:30 P. M. Sen
ior Theater Party, Division of In
dustries. 8:00 P. M. Sophomore 
Dajnce for Seniors, Margaret Morri
son Division. Carnegie Union.
Friday, June 4thAll Day. Outing 
for Seniors, all Divisions. Camp 
Lo-aise Carnegie, Glencairn, Pa. 2:00 P. M. Tennis Match. Carnegie, 
vs. Huc.knell. Tech Campus. 4:00 
P. M. Recital by students of School 
of Music. Theater, Division of the 
Arts, 8:30 P. M. Out-door per
formance of John Miltons Comus 
by .students of the School of Drama. 
Garden Theater, Tech Campus.
Saturday, June 5th1:00 P. M. Senior 
Luncheon. Margaret Morrison Di
vision. Fort Pitt Hotel. 2:00 P. 
M. |)ual Track and Field meet. Car
negie vs. Dennison. Tech field; 
8:00 P. M. Alumni Federation Meet
ing and Smoker. Carnegie Union. 
5:00 1*. M. Festival, Margaret Mor
rison Division. Flag Staff Hill. 
9:00 P. M, Senior Party, Division of 
The Arts.
Sunday, June (>th- 1:00 P. M. Fresh
man Tea for Seniors, Margaret 
Morrison Division. Mellon Hall. 
8:00 P. M. Maccalaureate Sermon, 
by the Reverend 11. E. W. Fosbroke, 
D. I)., Dean of the Genoral Theo
logical Seminary, New York, Thea
tre, Division of the Arts.
Monday, June 7th10:00 A. M. Com
mencement. Exercises. Carnegie 
Music Hall. 12:30 P. M. Reception 
and luncheon to Seniors and their 
parents by President and Mrs.

I he reason n  
"just enough Turkish
Fat liiia contains more Turkish tobacco than any other Turkish blend cigarette. Not too much, as in straight Turkish brands; not too little, as in blends less delicately balanced; but "just enough Turkish- just enough to taste right, and just enough io leave a man feeling right ev 1 if he :c ore than usuul.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1920THE TARTAN.PAGE THRKK
TECH LOSES SECOND GAME 
OF SEASON 10 GENEVA
Playing a ragged, loose game; a 
game full of errors, Carnegie Tech 
nine dropped their second game of the 
season to Geneva College, Tuesday 
afternoon at Beaver Falls by a score of 5-4.
McCaw pitched a wonderful game 
but his support was no good. Oakley 
in right field dropped two flies which 
scored two runs for the Presbyterians. 
Gales, captain, coach and manager of 
the Geneva team kept up his good rec
ord by knocking in a home run and 
scoring a man. Durkin got a threebase hit and McCaw got credit for a 
two-bagger, besides striking out nine 
of the Geneva men. The score:
Carnegie Tech.
Players. R H P A E
Oakley, r.......................1 3 0 0 2
Doherty, 2 ...................2 1 3 4 0
Durkin, 3 .....................0 1 0 2 0
Godden, 1 .....................0 2 0 0 0
Johnson ,m.................0 1 0 0 0
Lynn, s.........................1 1 1 0 0
Irwin, c.........................0 1 9 1 1
McCaw, p.....................0 1 1 3 1
Healand, 1 ...................0 0 10 1 0
Totals .................4 11 24 11 4
Geneva.
Players. R H P A E
Allison, s ......................1 0 0 3 1
Thomas, 2 ...................1 0 3 1 0
Harr, 1..........................1 2 14 0 0
Gahles, c .....................2 2 6 0 0
Yoho, 3 ..........................0 3 1 4 0
Curry, 1..........................0 0 0 0 1
Patterson, r.................0 1 1 0 0
Loeffler, r........;.. . . 0 0 2 0 0
Stanton, p ...................0 1 0 7 0
Totals ...................5 9 27 15 2
Tech ....................002 001 1004
Geneva ...............300 001 10 05
Home runGahles. Three-base hit 
Durkin. Two-base hitMcCaw.
Bases on ballsOff Stanton 2, off Mc
Caw 1. Struck outBy McCaw 9, by 
Stanton 4. UmpireAikin. Time 1:45.
HornigW shpr 
STIFF 12-IWftllNG GAME
Bethany College put up a stiff fight 
against the Tartan nine, Saturday af
ternoon at Bethany, forcing the Plaid 
team to go 12 innings before getting 
the verdict of 6-5. Both teams battled 
through the early innings, scoring of
ten, but after the seventh both pitch
ers tightened up and Tech eased the 
deciding tally over. H *'elfth 
frame with two hits and an error.
Moon upheld his end of the game 
in a satisfactory manner, but being hit 
by a speedy batted ball was relieved 
by Weiss in the seventh and he held 
his opponents to two scratch hits. 
Lewis, of Bethany got credit for fan
ning ten of the Tech men, this coupled 
with the brilliant support of his eammates caused the extra innings. The 
score
Carnegie Tech.
Players. .RBPAE
Dleskies, 2...........02220
Doherty, 1..............021110
Durkin, m.............22120
Godden, 1 .............12200
Lynn, s .................1I422
Irwin, c.................(I11110
McCaw, r .............00000
Jnstone, m........... .10300
Moon, p ...............01010
Weiss, p ...............11240
Totals..................6 12
Bethany College
36122
Players.KHPAE
Wymann, 2 .......... .02320
Ronnico, m ......... .11001
Renoids, r.............11000
Marshal], 1 ...........12200
Cooke, s ...............12530
Wolf, 2 .................01110
Roach, c ...............011220
McConnell 1.........121001
Lewis, p ...............00300
1236112
Carnegie 0 2 1 0 100 1 0 0 0 1--6
Bethany 0 0 0 2 1 11 0 0 0 0 0-b
Two-base hit  Waymann. Threebase hitDurkin. Stolen basesDur
kin 2, Godden, Johnstone, Wayman, 
Rezonnico. Double playsWeiss, Do
herty, Cooke. First base on balls 
By Lewis 3, by Moon 3, by Weiss 1. 
Hit with pitched ballRoark, McCon
nell. Sacrifice bunts  Lynn, Irwin. 
Struck outBy Lewis 10, by Moon 7, 
by Weiss 1. Time 4:00.
----------33----------
H. B. APPLEGATE, SCIENCE
'15, BACK FROM INDIA 
H. B. Applegate, who graduated in 
Commercial Engineering in 1915, re
turned to Pittsburgh last Thursday 
after an absence of five years. His 
journey took him three months, and 
took him through the Suez, France, 
and England.He has been stationed at Madras, 
India, with the Standard Oil Com
pany, but has been over most of India 
and all the way round the globe since 
he left Tech five years ago.Applegate was a member of the old 
local fraternity, Zeta Lambda Epsilon, 
and returned to Pittsburgh to be init
iated into S. A. E. He was given a 
special initiation by Pennsylvania Phi 
Chapter last Friday night.Applegate will leave Pittsburgh 
shortly for his home at White Plains, 
N. Y., where he will spend a vacation 
before returning to India.
BATTING AVERAGES OF 
BALL TEAM THIS SEASON
Johnston, the Science plebe who 
covers the ground in the middle field 
leads the Tech baseball team m bat
ting. Johnston has played . in every 
game and tops the list with a percent
age of 363. Durkin is the next con
sistent hitter who is running Johnston 
a close race for the honor position, be
ing only three points behind Johnston.
Dvileskis, had he been playing all 
season might have been in the race 
but the big third baseman was unfort
unate. Dvileskis has an average of 
420 but his inability to be in as many 
games as Johnston or Durkin, elimin
ate him.
Ray Doherty, the speedy first sacker, follows the two leaders very close
ly with an average of 355. 
Batting Averages, May 29, 1920
A.B. H. Avge
7 J. Doherty.....................31 11 .355
4 R. Doherty ...................40 15 .374
6 Durkin ...........................50 18 .360
10 Godden...........................48 14 .292
5 Johnstone ......................44 16 .363
12 Lynn.................................48 11 .229
3 Dvileskis .......................21 9 .420
8 Irwin ...............................44 15 .341
11 McCaw...........................40 11 .275
1 Weiss ............................ 4 2 .500
9 Moon ...............................21 7 .333
2 Oakley ...........................12 6 .500
Total Team Average................363
-------------------
This column has been inaugurated 
as a medium through which students 
and faculty may express their opin
ions or feelings concerning any mat
ter or policy of the school that they 
may think worthy of commendation or 
deserving of criticism. Bill, who is 
known to the Tartan, will endeavor to 
answer anyone who objects to his theorys ,which will be published from 
time to time, and any signed com
munication will be published, the writ
ers name being withheld. Anony
mous statements are, of course, of no 
valueif you believe in a thing, back 
your opinion with your name.
The Editor.
AN ANSWER!!!
In the May 26th issue of the Tartan, 
the Spirit of a Carnegie Man ap
peared in criticism of The Spirit of 
Carnegie. The critic seems to be a 
champion of the commonly accepted 
theory that the success of a graduate 
depends upon the value of his diploma. 
He believes that only one out of ten 
entering the school should be graduat
ed, in order to maintain the hi vh 
standing, and modestly intimates that 
he is one out of ten. According to 
him, the other nine are unwilling to 
work and should be dropped. He does 
not consider that many men here at 
Tech are entirely supporting them
selves. This means that they must 
rush from school to their outside work 
at every opportunity. It means as
signed work turned in late. Ask any 
of the instructors. They will tell you 
that it is impossible for a man to sup
port himself entirely, and yet tend to 
school work. But this impossible job 
is being done here at Tech, and many 
who, with a little more approval could 
have done it have been dropped. It is 
for these men that in my previous ar
ticle I asked more consideration. 
These men are among those who are 
unwilling to work, as my critic puts 
it. 1 spoke of many men getting only 
one chance at a college education, and 
when they are dropped they lose that 
chance. This is true. My critic speaks 
of the ones who come back, but they 
are only a few, and I am talking of 
the great majority who never come 
back, and who are forever deprived of 
their chance.
My critic says that I fail to note 
that Mr. Carnegies most valuable 
quality was his ability to select men 
who could be depended upon, and that 
the school is simply following this 
policyin graduating only one out of 
ten whom they enter. He again con
siders himself one out of ten, and yet 
he speaks of my conceit. I am more 
confident of the men of our entering 
class than to believe that only one out 
of ten is dependable. He assumes 
when he says that I advocate the pass
ing of 10 per cent. If he reads my 
previous article he will see that I 
simply advocate a more considerate 
program toward young manhood ap
proving and encouraging the work of 
every entrant, in the Spirit of Car
negie, instead of breaking the plana 
of nine men'to benefit one. It will 
make a better man of every one of 
them, and neither I nor any man will 
ever lose by it. A man of real worth 
need never allow the value of his di
ploma to worry him.
So much for the real issuenow 
Mr. Critic, while I enjoyed your spirit 
of frank objection, yet I feel that your 
personal remarks were not properly 
placed in The Tartan. If you are a 
budding young writer, let me say that 
your inconsideration is one defect in 
your spirit. I would have to know a 
man for a long time and be very in
timate with him before I could justly 
offer such slams as you use in your 
late article, and even then 1 would 
consider it best to tell him of them 
personally. We are not after the ex
pression of individual grudges thru 
The Tartan. We should confine our
selves to a discussion of the real issue.
HAMMAN10 LEAD TECH 
BASKETBALL PLAYERS
Harry C. HammanVi, forward, was 
chosen captain of next years basket
ball team at a banquet held in Hotel 
Schenley recently. Ham hails from 
Martinsburg, W. Va., where he was 
prominent in High School Athletics. 
He is a member of Kappa Sigma Rho 
fraternity, Alpha Tau, and Dragon. 
He is a track man, president of his 
class, vice-president of the student as
sembly, and president of the Athletic 
board of control.
H. C. Henderson, a student in Sci
ence was chosen student manager. 
Skitch, who is a member of Theta 
Xi, is a letter man in football.
----------D----------FORBES HALL DANCE 
Forbes Hall gave one of the best 
dances of the year, Friday, May 28th. 
The house was springfied with many 
flowers and rosettes of green and yel
low crepe paper. In fact, decorations, 
music, refreshments and the weath
er couldnt have been better. Great 
credit must be given Marion Scull, 
chairman of the committee, for the 
success of this best of dances.
Of course, music and dancing were 
the principal diversions of the evening 
and a dainty luncheon was served at 
a late hour but added to this was the 
impromptu entertainment of Dolly 
Paxton and Hans Muller. A good 
time was had by all.---------Q----------FULLER BRUSH COMPANY 
OFFERS SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT The Fuller Brush Co. of Hartford, 
Conn., has a proposition for college 
men regarding summer employment. 
This companys policy is to use as 
many college men as possible, and 
their plan has proved very remunera
tive to many college men. Mr. W. S. 
Heiler, who was very successful with 
this work last summer is organizing 
a crew for this summer.
MAY FESTIVAL2=
jj The long postponed M. M. D. 
g May festival will be given June 
1 fifth.
LOSTA Theta Xi Fraternity Pin on
Campus. Finder please return to I).
B. Gawthrop, Science '20.* * *
Found:Fountain pen on Campus, 
April 30. Apply Office, Dean of Men.
Found: Cap in 117 Industries Bldg. 
on May 3rd. Inquire at Dean TarbelPs office.# * *.
Lost: About May 5thprobably in 
Machinery Hall, set of Dietzens 
drawing instruments. Finder please 
return to Dean Tarbells office.* * *
LOST: Monday afternoon, May 10, 
between Margaret Morrison Division 
and corner of Forbes and Woodlawn, 
a green silk umbrella. Finder will 
please return to office of Dean Tarbell.
LOST OR MISAPPROPRIATED
Several articles such as jackets, 
caps, and a wig, from the costumes 
supplied at the
Tech Circus
The return of these articles to Dean 
Tarbell or T. S. Repplier, Science 22, 
will result in a saving in circus ex
penses and an increase ip the proceeds 
to be turned over to the Athletic As
sociation.* * *
LOSTA brown wallet containing 
a sum of money. In Drama School 
Theater or on Campus. Finder please 
return to Dean Tarbells office and 
receive reward.
LOSTAt Tech Serkus a small al
ligator skin purse containing small 
sum of money and key. Please return 
to the Design School office.+ * *
FOUND  Girls purse on Tech 
Field during Circus. Apply office of Dean of Men.
'- f S t
LOSTLefax notebook containing 
valuable notes. Would the finder leave 
the same at postoffice.
H. F. Sobeck, Jr. Mecli.i f --
LOSTA Kappa Sigma Rho fra
ternity pin on the Campus or in the 
Industries building. Finder please re
turn to Dean Tarbells office.
Smart Spring and 
Summer Suits 
for Young Men!
The new Spring and Summer models are particu
larly handsome and tylishboth single and double breasted! 
Serviceable, all-wool fabrics, and patterns which 
are unusually nobby! 
Our chain-tore system affords saving of from $5 
to $10. Satisfaction guaranteed.
$30 *35 $40
Ultra-Class Suits, $45 and $50 
fete*5
AKRON
AMSTERDAM
CLEVELAND
MILWAUKEE
READING
507 Market St., 
809-211 Smithfleld St., 932 Liberty Ave.
PITTSBURGH 
(3 Rtoroa) 
R00HE8TER 
SOIIENEOTADY 
SYRACUSE
SOUANTON 
TRENTON 
TERRA HAUTE 
WILKES-BARRE 
YOUNOBTOWN
Fair Dealing Is the Foreword of the Tartan Advertisers.
Judge for yourself!
LISTEN!!
You can get twice 
as many ordinary 
cigarettes for the 
price of Murad.
But you cheat your
self of everything that 
makes a cigarette worth 
while  the delight, 
the satisfaction, the aris
tocracy of pure Turkish 
tobacconone like it!
100% 
PURE TURKISH
the worldu most 
famous tobacco 
for cigarettet

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1920THE TARTAN.BAOB POUR
SPECIAL NOTICE 
Get Your Register of Graduates 
NOW AT $.50 
On and after July 1, 1920, the 
price will be $1.00 to alumni 
members and $2.00 to all others.
Alumni, who have not remit
ted for the copies they received, 
please do so at once, as the 
money for this publication was 
borrowed from the Institute.
The Buelceye Club met last Tues
day afternoon for the annual election 
of officer.;. After the usual business 
the following officer were lectcd for 
the coming- year: L. M. Seebach,
president; I). Ackerman, vice-presi
dent; C. J. Schumacher, secretary; L. 
A. Fox, treasurer.
Prospects for the new year were 
discussed and suggestions made by 
the retiring officers. The smoker 
which was one of the most successful 
given in the Union, and the Jazzarce of the past year show well the 
work of the old officers and made the 
future outlook bright in the line of 
coming events. With the new officers 
at work arid the entire Club support
ing them during the next year a most 
pleasing calendar of social affairs are 
to be looked forward to, so boost 
Tech you Buckeyes and come 
back next year with added pep and 
a few new men and women to help 
carry on the work.
Five sweaters for 100 points in the 
Athletic Association, M. M. D., will be 
awarded at the Senior Assembly June 
second.
These are the first to be awarded in 
the history of Margaret Morrison.
Mary Bechtel, Marion Batchellor, 
Barbara Enders and Harrie Stone will 
.receive the sweaters.
The following letter was received 
today from Cambridge Colby, U. S. 
Secretary of State, who had promised 
to deliver the Commencement address 
this year:
My Dear Dr. Baker:
To my infinite regret I find that 
it will be impossible for me to visit 
the Institute of Technology on June 
7th and to make the address that I 
had agreed with you to make on that 
date. The pressure of official matters 
here is very great, as you can well 
imagine, but in addition to this normal 
pressure, there is a matter of such an 
urgent character and of such peremp
tory demands upon me that I cannot 
get away.
I hope you will appreciate that it 
is only under the most real compulsion 
that I write you to this effect, and I 
will be very glad to cooperate with 
you in getting any man whom you 
want to act as my substitute on the 
day of the Commencement.
Will you please convey also my 
regrets to Dr. Hamerschlag, from 
whom I received a most cordial and 
pleasant letter some days ago.
With kindest regards,
Yours faithfully,
(S) BAINBRIDGE COLBY.
Dr. Thomas Stockham Baker,
Carnegie Institute of Technology* 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. f;
Dr. Baker is now in Washington, 
and expects to secure some oihernotablc speaker for the event as ,a Sub
stitute for Mr. Colby.
FINEST SWIMMING POOL
IN THE WORLDMOST men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. 
There' cmfort, contentment, real uatisfaction and 
economy in a good pipe. WDC Pi pea give you this, and 
more A upecial aeaaoning process makes the genuine French 
briar bowl break in nweet and mellow. Pick a good shape 
at your nearest dealer';, at your price.
V/M. DEMUTH & CO.. NEW YORK
W O  t I1*  LA WO CST M A K IT. K S OF FINE PIPES
Open All Year and Every Day 
Pool Reserved for Women Tuesday and Thursday 
All Other Days for Men
PITTSBURGH NATATORIUM 
540 DUQUESNE WAY
The Campus AnvilSpringra
"Me master drawing pencil'
A man is judged by the 
pencil he keeps.
A well-sharpened Dixon's 
Eldorado is a friend to be 
proud of.
Mr. JonesDid you know my son 
Charlie at TechA 
TechniteSure thing. We used to 
sleep together in the same Trig class.rOSRPH DIXON CRUCIBLE CO. 
Pencil Dept. Jcrney City, N. J. 
V Canadian JJlHrlbiHori A
A. Jt. Muupouimll tc Co., Mil. ,\\ Turuulu <^Lifes Superfluities
Profs,
Calculars,
Parlor lamps,
Dorm rules,
Brown derbies,
Quizzes,
Chaperones,
Summer furs,
Male quartets,
18th Amendment,
Pretzels,
Ouiga boards.
DO YOU DANCE?anafor vtxny noud or prvjvrvrico - -H. G. NCHOL ELECTED PRESI
DENT AT LAST STUDENT 
COUNCIL
(Continued from page 1.)
allowing them only 25 per cent of the 
gross profits. The financial report, 
or as complete a report as possible, 
should be published in next weeks 
Tartan.
With this humble report, and the 
files attached hereto, the Campus 
Week Committee begs to be discharg
ed from a task which has been filled 
with work and pleasure as well, in at
tempting to do something for its Alma 
Mater.
Respectfully submitted,
F. I. LAWSON, 
May 18, 1920. Chairman.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
Step BackBoys 
This job is getting on our nerves. 
Look what came in the mail,
I cannot run a ford, writes one, 
But I can drive a nail.
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
AH Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
Old Clothes ManAny old clothes 
maam?
LadyNo, not today, but a Prof. 
lives next door, he might want some.* * *
Oh! what's in a name
Our Tiny would cry
When he used to share our lot,
Then Sir Antimony from the lab 
would reply,
1 hope not a helluva lot.* * *
Does It Ever Happen to You? 
This damsell always 
Cops our goat 
Who culls us up 
When we are broke.
isHiiuiiwmiuuiuuiiuuiuuimiiuuiiiiiiiMiiuuiiuuiiiwiiiiintiiiiiiiuiiuiiiiiUuiiuuifiiiiuiBiiuiiuuii
1030
Entering the 
World Electrical
**.50 U $16.60
OUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
IXPEN8E by buylnfl bottar 
ahoa. You will find them far 
ohnapor to waar than hoe 
which are not ao hlflh In quality.
Our now modola for FALL and 
WINTER ar now In, and thoy 
ar full of anapJuat aultnbla for tha oalla* man.
Doughboy Memories 
I cant forget petite Arlette 
With sparkling eyes and raven hair 
1 hear in dreams, your voice, it
seems- -
Oui, deux oiuiIm frits, et poinmopKnglnaara Equipment Instrument of Praolalon, Blua Print 
and Brawn Print Papara And 
Clatha.
B. K. ELLIOTT OO. 
1M |Don thut
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
OAKLAND 
COMMUNITY 
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGEJ.HE graduate of today enters a world electrical.
Gathered from the distant waterfalls or gen
erated by the steam turbine, electric power is 
transmitted to the busiest city or smallest 
country place.
Through the co-ordination of inventive genius 
with engineering and manufacturing resources, 
the General Electric Company has fostered and 
developed to a high state of perfection these 
and numerous other applications.
And so electricity, scarcely older than the grad
uate of today, appears in a practical, well 
developed service on every hand.
Recognize its power, study its applications to 
your lifes work, and utilize it to the utmost 
for the benefit of all mankind.
WEEKS SHORT STORY 
By Doglctt Luce 
Another of Columbus, as I knew 
him. or The Memoirs of a Beanery 
Pie. $4.50 or Coke for Three.
Curses! yes a thousand times curses 
quoth Ivory Dohm as he paced his 
room in all direction twirling his best 
Sunday mustachios anon. He was 
but returned from offering his heart 
and hand and $2.36 in cash to his fair 
Belinda with but negative retacions.
Belinda, the Virgin of Soupbowl, 
Nev., pure and chaste, year brother, 
chased by every gent between eigh
teen and eightythey die hard out in 
Soupbowl.
Yes, she had handed him the glacial 
love and upon his reluctance to leave 
had chosen for his exit the window of 
their sixth story flat.
And now wo find Ivory battling 
with dark thoughts, striding between 
the southern exposure and the folding 
bed. Will it be a watery grave or 
whatyes 1 yes! or what.
Suddenly he spring to the phone, 
cold chills shimmy upon his spine, yet 
trui' to his Rupert Hughes, yes he 
will do it-what will poople say 
what will the neighbors think, etc., 
etc.
But he cannot turn back now. Al
ready he has refused several wrong 
numbers. Finally he hears a familiar 
voice. At last it is the drug store 
clerk.
Whatll you have?
Half and er ah have you any 
carbolic acid?
Yes.
Well, wouldnt that kill you. 
Bang.
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
SUMMER WORK 
PAYING BIG 
MONEYTHE 
NEW PEKINLet me tell you what I did 
with Fuller Brushes last sum
mer! Classes now being con
ducted for this summers work 
Join now! See W. J. Heiler, Sc. 
21. Schonley 1)425.
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co,
Across from the Library
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schcnley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
General Office Schenectady NXPatronize The Tartan Advertisers.
