WATCH FOR TARTAN 
SPECIAL ISSUE 
NEXT WEEK
VOL. XIV. No. 29.Qthr_(Iarian
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
CAMPUS WEEK 
SOUVENIR ISSUE 
MAY 19, 1920
MAY 12, 1920.
FIVE VICTORIES FOR TECH
West Virginia Victim of Tech
Track Team at Morgantown
Meet Won by a Close Score of 65 to 61 
Kelly Takes 100-Yard Dash
West Virginia suffered a double de
feat at the hands of the Tartans 
clansmen. Saturday afternoon, the 
tennis team won their tourney and the 
track team finished the day by down
ing: the Mountaineers cinder men by 
a final count of 65 to 61.
Tech won eight first places. Kelly 
and Russel easily took first and second 
places in the 100-yard dash and Ar
nold did fine work in capturing first 
place in the 120-yard high hurdles and 
the 220-yard low hurdles. Capt. 
Schmidt started in the quarter of a 
mile run, but was disqualified by the 
judge for interfering. In starting out, 
Powley and Kennedy of West Vir"i: ia <?ot the lead with Schmidt at 
their heels, they got Capt. Schmidt in 
this position and kept him boxed until 
three quarters of the race was run, 
when Schmidt saw what they were 
trying to do and stuck out his hand, 
motioning to the mountaineer to let 
him, and this act disqualified him from 
the race in which, otherwise, he would 
have won.
Miller would have also captured 
first placfe in the hammer throw had it 
not been for a defective hammer 
which broke on Miller?& second throw. 
Gaines for West Virginia was the best 
all-around man, scoring 13 points.
The summary:
100-yard dashKelley, Carnegie 
Tech, first; Russell, Carnegie Tech, 
second; Hill, West Virginia, third. 
Time10 4-5 seconds.
Running high jump -7 -Davis, and 
Hill, West Virginia, tied; for first and 
second places; Hammond, Carnegie 
Tech, third. Height5 feet 6 inches.
Mile runCooper, Carnegie Tech, 
first; Lazzclle, West Vii-ginia, second;. 
Bleisch, Carnegie Tech, third. Time 
4 minutes 47 1-5 seconds.
220-yard dashHill, West Virginia, 
first; Kelley and Russell, Carnegie 
Tech, tied for second and third places. 
No time.
Shot putMiller, Carnegie Tech, 
first; Reed, West Virginia, second; 
Crowde, West Virginia, third. Distnce 
83 feet 5 5-8 inches.
120-yard high hurdlesArnold, Car
negie Tech, first; Marshall, West Vir
ginia, second; Knutti, West Virginia, 
third. Time19 4-5 seconds.
440-yard dashRowley, West Vir
ginia, first; Kennedy, West Virginia, 
second; Hill, West Virginia, third. 
Time53 2-5 seconds.
220-yard low hurdlesArnold, Car
negie Tech, first; Mertz, Carnegie 
Tech, second; Harman, West Virginia, 
third. Time:29.
Two-mile runMcDonald, Carnegie 
Tech, first; Greenlaw, Carnegie Tech, 
second; Emch, West Virginia, third. 
Time11:02 1-5.
Pole vaultStultz, Carnegie Tech, 
first; Gaines, West Virginia, second; 
Farley, West Virginia, third. Height 
10 feet 6 inches.
880-yard runLazzelle, West Vir
ginia,, first; Schmidt, Carnegie Tech, 
second; Hawkins, West Virginia, 
third. Time2:14.
Running broad jumpHannon, Car
negie Tech,, first % Bremmer, Carnegie 
Tech, second; Hawkins, West Vir
ginia, third. Distance20 feet 9 
inches.
Discus throwGaines, West Vir
ginia, first; Reed, West Virginia, sec
ond; Schlumpf, Carnegie Tech third. 
Distance97 feet 11 inches.
Javelin throwGaines, West Vir
ginia, first; Schmidt, Carnegie Tech, 
second; Woodford, West Virginia, 
third. Distance140 feet IV2 inches.
1921 THISTLE BOARD 
ELECTED BV F0UR|SCH00LS
Last week elections were held in 
the four schools for the 1921 Thistle 
Board. Mr. John Byler, Science, was 
elected Editor-in-Chief and Miss E. 
A. Laughlin, M. M. D., associate edi
tor. The other members of the board 
are as follows:
M. M. D.
Miss E. A. Laughlin 
Miss E. E. Paul 
Miss M. C. McCombs 
Industries 
R. L. Shanno 
J. E. Hess 
H. Z. Longwell 
Science 
J. T. Ames 
H. D. Skyrm 
R. B. Nation 
Arts
J. D. Mawhinney 
L. L. Uusbaum
In addition to these members there 
is an art Editor and associate art edi
tor to be appointed from the P. & D. 
Department, Arts Division. These 
men have not been appointed at the 
present time.
The new board held its first meeting 
May 4, and the program for the com
ing year was outlined. Mr. Town
send, editor of the 1920 edition gave 
a short talk on the former boards 
methods, and his experiences in han
dling the Thistle; Elections were 
then held for the various offices on 
the staff, which, resulted as follows: 
Business manager . .J. D. Mawhinney 
Arts
Treasurer......................' H. D. Skyrm
Science
Secretary ................. Miss E. E. Paul
M. M. D.
Sales amnager .................. J. T. Ames
Science
The new board has already started 
work and promised a banner year
book for 1921.
192T HISLEBOA
The work of the band concert and 
Dance is rapidly progressing. Ar
rangements have been made with one 
of the best orchestras in Pittsburgh 
for the dance which is to last until 
1 oclock. The preparation of the 
program is also 011 the way. The best 
band concert that was ever given 
on the campus is to be given this year. 
Vou dont want to miss it. Dont for
get that May 28 is a red letter date 
for you and yours. t
Ml- ikil.i .IlMilrilit Hi <ll>FIRST JUNIOR BANQUET 
OF THREE SCHOOLS HELD
The combined Junior Classes of the 
three mens schools held a banquet at 
the Lincoln Club on Thursday, May 6, 
1920. It was one of the neatest and 
snappiest banquets ever held. The 
attendance was large, the eats were 
good, and there certainly was a lot 
of pepper spilledand not from pep
per shakers either. It was the first 
time in the history of the school that 
the Junior classes from the three 
schools combined, met at a banquet 
and the members of each division were 
pleased to find that the men from the 
other divisions can eat soup without 
making a noise just as well as they 
can. It is expected that this ban
quet will set a precedent to be fol
lowed annually by all the divisions.
The guests of the evening were 
President A. A. Hamerschlag, Com
missioner C. B. Connelly, Director W. 
E. Mott, Director R. E. Bossange, and 
Prof. S. S. Keller. Each of the guests 
spoke very enthusiastically about 
Tech spirit, and of the great things 
that Tech will do. The three presi
dents of the Junior class, Harry Aspinwall of Arts, Frederick Bloom of 
Science, and Harry Hamman of In
dustries made a few remarks concern
ing the unity of the three divisions. 
H. G. Nichol of Science acted as tostmaster.
The entertainment of the evening 
!was supplied solely by home talent, 
except for the orchestra which kept 
everyones feet moving under the ta
ble. Each section put on a stunt of 
its own and all made a hit. The com
mittee of which E. A. Butts was chair
man, deserves a world of credit for 
the excellent manner in which they 
managed the banquet.
COMMERCIALSVCHEMISTS
The Sophomore Commercials ppened up the Inter-Class Base Ball season 
last Friday afternoon by winning both 
games of a double-header, meeting the 
Sophomore and Junior Chemicals on 
the home diamond.
In the first game, Captain C. J. 
Copley, on the mound for the Com
mercials, held the hard-hitting Soph 
Chemicals to a single safe bingle. The 
game ended with a score of 8 to 1.
The second game was a walk-away 
for the Commercials. Wity Allen, the 
star southpaw in the box, the Junior 
Chemicals scored only one run, while 
the Commercials ran the score up to 
32.
CAMPUS WEEK
Where to Go.What to See.
Alumni Headquarters...............................................................Science Lawn
Campus Week Headquarters .......................................................Tech Gym
THURSDAY. MAY 13TH
1. Pep MeetingA Good Live Program.......................
... .*...........................................................Carnegie Music Hall
All Students in the Big Pee-Rade 
 Qualification and Tap-Pay Exercises... .Athletic Feield 
FunerafProcession"starts from Design School 
immediately after the Assembly 
. School Exhibition Night-frffhe Schools thrown open for 
Alumni, Faculty, Students and Friends.
Dont forget to visit The Stringers at the Library Hut 
:. Two Performances___A Man Can Only Do His Best
1:00 p.
2:30 p.
7:00 p.
7:00 p.
8:00 p. m.
FRIDAY, MAY 14TH
9:30 a. m. World Defying Fraternity Sweepstakes ...................
........................................................................Campus Speedway
10:00 a. m. Junior Class Tree Plantiqu...........................Design Lawn
10:30 a. m. Field Day and Sumiemaey. CpjitesCs............Athletic Field
Tennis^Tech vs. W. & J.......................Woodlawn Courts
? ? ? Stunts ? ?
1:30 p. m. Faculty-Senior Baseball Game.....................Athletic Feild
3:00 p. m. Greased Pig Chase............................................Athletic Field
Tech vs. GenevaBaseball ...........................Athletic Field
4:30 p. m. R. O. T. C. Pee-Rade and Exhibition...............Tech Street
4:45 p. m. M-jfl. D May Day PanceL................. .Flagstaff Hill
5:15 p. m. Lawn Fete and Picnics..........................Open Air Theatre
Y. W. C. A. Canteen at Library Hut 
Bring your Friends and Have Lunch 011 the Campus
6:30 p. m. Band Concert.Open Air Theatre
8:00 p. m. A Man Can Only Do His Best. .Design Little Theatre
9:30 p. m. DancingAla Radio.. Carnegie Union and Design Foyer
Tickets $1.00
(NOTETech Campus Week Buttons entitle students 
to 256 reduction 011 Dance Tickets.)
SATURDAY, MAY 8TH 
noon Tech Interscholastics and Tech vs. GenevaTrack
a. m. Alumni-Varsity Baseball Game....................Athletic Field
Meet.......................................................................Schenley Oval
p. m. Aeroplane Flights............................................Schenley Oval
p. m. THE TCH CIRCUS-Worlds Largest Aggregation'
of Trained Performers ever gathered in One Arena
................................................... .......................Athletic Ficl.dSide Shows and Gatos Open/uL 2 oclock. (AcTmiuuioii 50c) 
(NOTETech Campus Week Buttons entitle holder 
to 25c reduction on Circus Admission.)
p. m. Alumni f'ederation Banquet for all Alumni...............
.r...... r.'___.......7TT. rrTTTTTT.. r. .Fort Pitt Hotel
p. m. Band Concert......................................................Design Lawn
p. m. Tech Interscholastics Smoker (Men Only)]J.. \...........
;.TT............ .T.. i. r.lT7.rP. .. .^T7TCndfeie Union
p. m. M. M. D. Entertainment and Social (Girls Only)...
................................................................................M. M. D. Gym
12:00
10:00
2:00
3:00
6:30
7:00
8:00
B:00
Plaid Racquetters Defeat Geneva 
Then Leave W. V. U. in the Cold
Only One Set Lost to Geneva
Seasons Prospedts Bright
Meeting their first two opponents of 
the season last week, Geneva and 
West Virginia, Carnegie Techs tennis 
team lived up to their reputation and 
defeated both Geneva and West Vir
ginia by the very decisive scores of 5 
to 1 and 6 to 0 respectively.
In the tourney with Geneva, Thurs
day afternoon, Tech got away with 
everything but one single. Beatty, who 
was off form losing to F. B. Ransom.
F. B. Ransom was Genevas best bet 
and played a spectacular game. Both
G. E. Ranson and Reader were easy 
victims for Capt. Stockslager and 
Davis. Phil Marshall, football half
back and captain of Techs last year 
football team, altho he played in No. 4 
match made the most impressive 
showing of the afternoon allowing his 
opponent, Martin, only three games 
and winning the only love set of the 
meet.
Saturday afternoon at Morgantown, 
the Plaid racqueters took the four sin
gles and two doubles, the Mountain
eers winning none of the matches.
Phil Marshall ran up against the
Mountaineers best man in F. F. Mc
Intosh, Marshall took the first set but 
McIntosh came right back and got the 
second forcing Marshall to play the 
third, to decide the match. Marshall
won the set, 6-4, altho McIntosh
pushed him hard. Capt. Stockslager 
also met a worthy opponent in Clay 
Hammond, he winning the second set 
by a score of 7-5, but stockslager eas
ily got the last set winning the match.
Neither Beatty or Davis had any 
trouble with their opponents. In the 
doubles Beatty and Stockslager were 
forced by Philips and Hammond to 
play three sets to determine the 
match. However Davis and Marshall 
won their match in two sets.
Summaries of the Geneva Tourney:
Singles: F. B. Ransom, Geneva,
beat Beatty, Tech, 6-2, 6-4.
Stockslager, Tech, beat G. E. Ran
som, Geneva, 6-2, 6-4.
Davis, Tech, beat Reader, Geneva, 
6-3, 6-2.
Marshall, Tech, beat Martin, Gen
eva, 6-3, 6-0.
Doubles: Beatty and Stockslager, 
Tech, beat the Ransom brothers, Gen
eva, 6-4, 6-2.
Davis and Marshal, Tech, beat 
Reader and Martin, Geneva, 6-2, 9-7.
Summaries of the West Virginias 
tournament:
Singles: J. D. Beatty defeated M. 
E. Phillips by 6-3, 6-4.
T. P. Marshall defeated F. F. McIn
tosh, 6-2, 3-6, 6-4.
E. S. Stockslager defeated Clay 
Hammond, 6-2, 5-7, 6-3.
J. P. Davis defeated Paul Cutright 
by 7-5, 6-1.
Doubles: Beatty and Stockslager
defeated Phillips and Hammond, 6-3, 
4-6, 6-3.
Davis and Marshall defeated McIn
tosh and Cutright, 6-1, 6-4.
CAMPUS WEEK
The big week is at last here when 
alumni, students and friends will min
gle in the greatest celebration ever 
known at Tech. Three days just 
chucked full of good times and bub
bling over with that old Tech spirit 
that has been sleeping for the past 
three years. However, dont sit 
around and watch the spirit but get 
out and help in the shouting; remem
ber you are a Techite and must show 
the real stuff.
Begin by getting a Campus Week 
button, they cost two bits anil are to 
help pay for the good times. In ad
dition to this they will be good for 
twenty-five cents credit on the dance 
Friday night and the circus Saturday 
afternoon. The dance will cost a dol
lar and the circus fifty cents with a 
button. There is a representative in 
your class who will be glad to sell 
you one.
On Thursday be sure to go to the 
Pep Meeting at 1 p. m. at the Car(Continued on page 4.)
Baseball Team Wins Games
With Grove City and Juniata
Little Joe Doherty Saves First Day 
McCaw, Weiss and Moon Show Up Well
With Carnegie Tech one run shy at 
the beginning of the last half of the 
ninth, diminutive Joe Dougherty, 98- 
pound stellar second baseman for the 
Plaid, broke up the old ball game,
Thursday afternoon, against Grove 
Cityturned defeat into victory for 
Tech by swatting the ball to right 
field, with one man on and one out, 
for a trip around the diamond, defeat
ing the Presbyterians by the final 
score of 5 to 4.
Three hits coupled with two errors 
by the visitors brought in two runs 
for Tech in the second inning and a 
free pass to Durkin and a double by 
Johnston to middle field, in the sixth 
inning, produced another tally for 
Tech.
McCaw, backed by good infield 
work, held the visitors scoreless for 
six frames, but in the seventh Skin
ny weakened and Grove City made 
good her seventh inning rally. Tobin 
hit a short fly over short and took 
two bases 011 Johnstons fumble. Sakemiller knocked a grounder to Lynn 
and was thrown out at first while 
Tobin advanced to third. Lauers 
singled to center field scoring Tobin.
Stephanian hit a slow grounder to 
Dvluskus, who fumbled, allowing
Stephanian to reach first. Fallon 
connected with the ball for a long fly 
to the hill, Lauers scoring and Steph
anian going to third. Smith then 
knocked a sacrifice fly and Stephan
ian scored the tying run. Sellers fled 
out to center.
In the ninth ,tlie Crimson crew saw 
another chance to score when Mc
Caw issued a free pass to Lauers, who 
went to second 011 Stephanians neat 
sacrifice. Fallon then connected for 
a hot one to center, but Johnstons 
fine peg cut down Lauers attempting 
to make home, Fallon taking second 
011 the throw. Fallon then scored 011 
Smiths single to middle field. Smith 
took second 011 the throw, but was 
caught attempting to stead third.
Grove City was leading by one run, 
then, and the crowds were leaving 
the stands, thinking it was all over 
for Tech. Irwin, Tech's consistent 
hitter singled to right. Skinny Mc
Caw popped out to the catcher and 
one of Techs chances wore lost. Then, 
little Joe, who is the life of the team 
and IIonus special understudy, let a 
strike go by and got two balls and 
then the next onehe sent over the 
first basemans head, way dawn in the 
(Continued, on page 3.)
STUDENT COUNCIL DECIDES 
MATTER OF DEGREE RINGS
The business of the school year, 
1919-20 of the Student Council was 
rounded into shape at a meeting held 
Friday, May 7. Final reports were 
made by the committed.-* as follows 
Campus Week, F. I. Lawson; Clip and 
Gowns, Miss Piper; Student Council 
Insignia, W. H. Oakley. A Com 
meneement Cpmmittee was appointed, 
John Sweeny, Chairman, to develop 
plans for Commencement Week. The 
Point System Committee, J. W. Bat
man, Chairman, has referred its re
port to the incoming Council of 1920- 
21 fooling that it should 1! carefully 
considered by that body before a def
inite report is to be made.
The changing of the Freshman Caj 
is under discussion and a final report 
is to be made at the Councils next 
meeting.
The ring committee reported, and a 
motion made by G. T. Heddaous and 
seconded by C. A. Stone was passed.
Motion-That the Student Council 
authorize granting of degroe rings to 
upper class of 1920 and present mid
dle class who will be graduated 1921 
of Division of Industries, for the fol
lowing reasons:
1. Since it has been the custom 
heretofor to give this ring to all stu 
dents graduating from the regular day 
courses, both degree and non-degree.
2. Since the non-degree courses 
are automatically discontinued after 
next year.
3. Since the men discriminated 
against would have graduated prior 
to this action had it not been for the 
war.
4. Since some of the same class 
have already received rings.
i. Since the action seems to have 
been hastily taken with perhaps no 
prejudice, yet has resulted in a dis
crimination against the prevailing cus
tom .
6. Since this action vitally affects 
the alumni and best interests of Tech.
7. Since Tech is striving for bet
ter internal feeling between the Di
visions of the Institute.
NEW ENGLAND CLUB 
G Q HAS BEAN SUPPER
On Wednesday evening of last week 
the New Englanders at Tech assem
bled en-mass at The King Edward and 
laid to on a regular old-fashioned bean 
supper. Every one ate his fill of the 
well-prepared Boston berries and the 
real New England brown bread and 
that is going some,'for as a rule them 
down-Easterners are long on the ap
petite.
After the wreckage was cleared 
away speeches and entertainment 
were in order. Professors Thayer and 
Blaisdell spoke while Prof. Fly enter
tained with a program of clever 
sleight-of-hand tricks. The turnout 
was exceptionally good, and many old 
acquaintances were renewed, and new 
ones formed.
The New England club is making 
arrangements to attend the Tech-Yale 
game next year, and it is hoped that 
all Tech men in that district will be 
at the bowl for that event next fall.
CAMPAIGN CONDUCTED BY CARNEGIE ENGINEERS 
FOR SUBSCRIPTIONS
One of the most important occur
rences on campus weok will bo the 
first public activities of the Carnegie 
Engineer. Before this week it has 
just been mentioned a number of 
times in the Tartan, and otherwise but 
little has been hoard of it. But those 
interested have been doing more than 
writing about it. Already the faculty 
and quite a number of the students 
have boon intensely interested in it. 
A committee of the A. A. 10. have 
boon working on the policy and plans 
for publication of the paper. A tem
porary business stall has been ap
pointed. This staff is going to carry 
011 a campaign for subscriptions to 
the paper during campus week. It 
will also interest the alumni, students 
and faculty in contributing to it.
The Carnegie Engineer will be a 
great asset to Carnegie Tech, If it 
is carried on with the spirit that has marked all other school enterprises It 
will be one of tin; finest school tech
nical journals in the country. It will 
advertise the school better than any 
number of bulletins containing pic
tures and outlines of course because 
instead of stating facts, it will bo it
self a fact. It will be a Tech product 
and show just what the school is 
doing, and there is 110 doubt that this 
spirit will be behind it. Those who 
arc now working on the project are 
putting their best into the work and 
are giving their best efforts to put it 
across. And they have the support of 
the students. All who have been ask
ed to help have been enthusiastic to 
.;ee great results from the coming 
campaign, and are helping with all 
their might. The faculty is behind it 
too, giving their advice and help and 
interesting the students in the work.
The first issue of the Carnegie En
gineer will be about November 1. 
(Continued on page 2.)
TEKNON CLUB ELECTS 
OFFICERS FOR NEXT YEAR
At the meeting of the Tekon club 
last Friday officers were elected for 
the coming year. Mr. H. G. Nichol 
was reelected president, Miss Gladys 
Vogue was elected vice president and 
J. K. Macalpine secretary-treasurer.
The club is taking charge of the 
praper meeting of the Shadyside Pres
byterian church this Wednesday.
ANNOUNCEMENTS
The 1920 Thistle has just come of 
the press and will be distributed with
in a few weeks. Announcements as to 
time, place anrl method of distribution 
will be published in a week or so.
The 1921 Thistle board requests all 
students who own cameras to take 
pictures of events at and concerning 
the school. A large number of pic
tures of Campus Week events are 
wanted as it will be one of the most 
important events on the calendar.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, MAY 12, 1920.P/ypE TWO.
and Raindrops" danced to one of 
KreinlerH Compositions.
From the Senior Class Miss Maud 
Fire will dance Kreislers "Schoene 
RoHemarine", Miss Barbara Endres 
will dance the Sunbeam to one of 
Schuberts Compositions, and Miss 
Blanche Sheppard will dance the 
Rainbow".The Senior class will also have one 
interpretive group dance, the Winds" 
to one of G rein's compositions.--------D----------
Start Friday right by witnessing the 
spectacular sweepstakes start in front 
of Arts School at 9:30.
or patent leather shoes. But by no 
means be intolerant enough to allow 
the difference or characteristic of a 
person or group of persons to move 
you to sufficient hate that you wish 
they did not live. All classes are
parts of humafiity. God made them 
all. The greatest' indication of your 
appreciation of God is your tolerance 
of allfor after tolearance, comes 
love.
(Bj? (Haran
V*ubU>hcd evf.ry v>,p*>k by undergraduate of the Curngle Iniunute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Jtudent Actlviti** Board.
Ent*r*xi In the pontoffice of Pittsburgh  Mcond-ctiuth mnUnr
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
.<r Ili- copyCanada. J1.7ͻ 
LcRoy I. Kmcrich
Thi* year 1.60
Editor-in-Chief
Phone Hazel 9422Start CAMPUS Week Off Right By 
Going to Assembly.T. W. AllsworLhBniincw Mi-juigerPhone llit*) 9425.
CAMPAIGN CONDUCTED
BY CARNEGIE ENGINEERS 
(Continued from page 1.) 
According to the present plans there 
will be four issues a year, and as the 
paper gains a Arm standing the num
ber will probably be increased to six. 
The subject matter will come from 
many sources. There will be articles 
on original research and investigation 
by alumni, faculty and students. Many 
of these articles will be taken from 
the theses of Seniors. There will also 
be abstracts from the most interesting 
and valuable articles in the engineer
ing and scientific journals. Notes on 
processes and improvements in meth
ods as observed by students and alum
ni will also be published.
The subscription campaign will take 
place during the thre edays of Cam
pus Week. Student and alumni sub
scriptions will be solicited. It is 
hoped that there will be at Jeast five 
hundred subscribers so that the paper 
may start out with a good financial standing.
The name Carnegie Engineer" is 
only temporary, as it does not de
scribe the full scope of the paper. The 
present name would imply that it is 
entirely a Science School paper, but, 
while a great deal of the material will 
come from that division, it is hoped 
that there will be a good proportion 
of the contributions from the other 
three schools. The new name may 
be announced this week on the cam
pus along with announcements of the 
details of the campaign.
School Editors
M. M. D................Margaret J. Grillen
Science.....................J. lv. VV. Macalpine
Industries ..................... Ralph Shanno
Arts..................................1 . K. Hinckley
Other Auttistants 
Arthur Lubin 
Gert) ude Baton 
Margare, . itolzenlmugh 
Adel</ Gumbert 
01.a Kiefer 
J. M. Zebest 1. 'i. Sissman
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
AMintant Managing Editori 
F. L Smith 
C. L. Lake 
New Editor 
J. T. Arne 
Asfociate News Editor 
W. D. Hall
CAPTAINS OF OPPONENT 
TEAMS
WD C Pipes are certainly a mans smoke. They bring 
the smokejoy which every man seeks. Its in the 
mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or 
burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workman
ship and design. SJoct several shapjs today at any good 
dealer's. Smoke a cool one every time.
Wm, DEMUTH 6k CO.. NEW YORK
Athletic Editor 
G. R. GoodrichBUSINESS STAFF 
0. A. Sillers 
R. F. Lunger 
W in. Obenour
Annuitant Athletic Edi^  
Fred L. Knowies 
S. P. Smith
Circulation Manager 
H. G. Atchley
Right training wins the race.
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
Dixons 
Eldorado is 
the choice of 
the worlds greatest 
'ir engineers. It should be 
yours IV&-
Room 162, DesignTARTAN OFFICEThats as true in 
life as on the 
cinders.
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
TV Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All buaincH communications should be sent to the Business Manager 
Any dalay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at one.
Tha Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
tha aignature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoflice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
Miller, Geneva.
Made in 17 leads, one for every ^ need or pref- erence. ^
THE CARNEGIE ENGINEER.
At last a technical journal is started at Carnegie Tech. The need of 
many years is going to be filled by this magazine and the alumni, faculty, 
ar>d studon1.:; will know what is being done along engineerin'; and technical 
lines by'those interested in the school. But such an undertaking cannot be 
carried thru by a few men. It will take the whole-hearted support cl students, 
alumni and faculty in order to have a paper that will be worth pi liing and 
be worth supporting.There are three lines of support necessary for a magazine. There must 
be subscription^ 'advertising and contributions. The first two are what sup
port it'financially, the latter is what makes it worth subscribing to and there
fore.'worth, advertising in. Everybody can help in all three lines, especially 
tin;, first.. .,All alumni, students and faculty should he subscribers. There will 
bo'awlliclos'of interest and value to all,, especially to those from Science, indu'sWl'cs; the Architectural courses and the Science courses in Design.
The advertising must be supported. Many of the students will be in a 
position to procure good advertising which will increase the value ol the 
pjiper, belli tli'ru the advertising itself and thru making it possible to enlarge 
tjie magazine., ( Alumni, faculty and students should help the paper by contributions of 
articles- of technical interest.\yhen research work is being done the results should be published and 
artjcles on original observations and also abstracts from other papers should 
b^jSon^it.V TJiis, wdojc the thing to do is to subscribe to the Carnegie Engineer." 
who,thcr you are i^n alumnus, faculty member or student, and' thus aid in 
the work of startling, the paper oil right- Contributed.
FOR YOUNG MEM AND MEN WHO STAY YOUNG
Capt. Schmidt, Tech,
Every man on the Campus Thurs
day, Friday and Saturday.
THE FOURTH ANNUAL
INTER-STATE MEET.
The Track Meet to be held on 
Schenley Oval next Saturday will In* 
the biggest meet of the year for Tech. 
II, is Techs fourth annual inter-schol
astic meet and Geneva College-Tech 
meet combined and already over 6fi0 
entries have been received from the 
High School who expect to compete. 
Shorifi VV. S. Haddock will referee 
the meet and all contestants are there
by assured of an absolutely fair and 
square deal.
The moot will start promptly at 
I:()() p. m. and every olVort will ho 
made to carry out the program on 
schedule time. The last event, the 
one mile relay for schools is scheduled 
for 3:50 P. M. so every one will have 
ample time to get back to school to 
the circus after the meet. Lets all 
turn out and root for Tech and our 
favorite high schoolfor the compe
tition will be keen.
Gold, silver and bronze medals will 
be awarded the winners in all events. 
Individual silver cup will be given to 
each man on the Inter-Scholastic Re
lay Team and a splendid silver cup 
will be given to the school winning 
the greatest number of points. Lets 
see every one on that oval next Sat
urday.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS 
, , DORMITORY ROOMS FOR 1920-1921
In'Order to Hoeuro precedence in assignments, students at. present in 
reMdeivde desiring to make application for dormitory rooms for the college 
year beginning September 27, 1-020, should do so at the Office of the Dean 
of Men on or before June I, 11)20. After that date assignments will begin 
for new students entering next fall. No applieutilons will bo considered at 
present for rooms in dormitories Ji, 5 or,7.Rooms i'll certain dormitories, to be assigned later, can In1 rented by the 
month for the period from July I to September 25 al the rate of $2.00 per 
week per occupant for double rooms, or 1-2.71 per week for single rooms.A, W. TARBIOLD, Doan of Mon.
SUMMER SESSION1920
Undergraduates in all Divisions of the Institute, who are planning to 
register in the summer session are advised to make preliminary application 
at-once ,in order to facilitate the completion of arrangements for the summer 
work. iAll applications for admission to the summer courses must be made out
on special blanks which will be furnished by the Registrar.
, , All candidates for admission to the summer courses, whether they have 
boon in attendance at the Institute during the college year of lt)l!)-20 or not, 
must file this special application.TbQ Announcement of Summer Courses contains complete information 
concerning the work that will be offered. Copies of this announcement may 
bo ,secured at the office of the Registrar., The summer session will open on June 28 and will continue for periods of
six \yeoks (ending August 6) and eight weeks (ending August 20).fi,. ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
.  , , STUDENT CALENDAR
 May 13, 14, 15Campus Week.
1 May 4Tennis, Tech vs. W. & J., Tech Courts.
May 14Campus Week Dance, Union.
May. 15-Tech Circus.May 15Inter-scholastic Track Meet and Dual Meet, Tech vs. Geneva, 
Schenley Oval.
May !l5Intersclvolastic Smoker .............................................................Union
IVfay 20BaseballTech vs. Pittsburgh Collegians.....................Tech Field
May l21-TennisTech vs. West Virginia..................................Tech Courts
' May 21Inter-Honorary Dance, Union.
May 22Track MeetTech vs. West Virginia Wesleyan..........Tech Field
May 22vTennisTech vs. Grove City..............................................Tech Feild
May 22Tennis Dance, Union.
May 22Cosmopolitan Club Banquet....................................Chatham Hotel
 : May 28C. I. T. Band Concert and Dance, Arts Building.
May 29Tennis Danco, Union.
INTOLERANCE
a matter of exacting specifications 
religiously followed each season, to 
maintain our standard. Society 
Brand Clothes do not just happen to have better 
style, fit and finish. They are the result of an 
organization inspired by an ideal.
WITH THE VARIED GRADES OF CLOTHING FLOODING 
THE MARKET, LOOK FOR THE LABEL AS YOUR GUIDE 
ALFRED DECKER A COHN, Makers SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES, Limited, for Cind
Chicago New York Montreal
How many times have you been in 
a theatre when somebody laughed or 
applauded at the wrong time, and you 
were so displeased that it disturbed 
your entire evening? How often have 
you seen a person act discourteously 
toward another and you felt a disgust 
within, which almost shattered your 
poise? How many times have you 
met or been forced into company with 
someone whose dress and presence 
bored you to the point where you 
clenched your teeth? How many 
times have you purposely avoided a 
person because he was different than 
youor because he belonged to a 
lower classas you thoughtall of 
these experiences express intolerance 
and if you are guilty of any of them, 
you are guilty of human intolerance. 
When you arc moved to anger by 
someones conduct. presence, or 
thoughtless act; think a*second time 
and you will probably laugh when 
you realize that you arc displeased by 
a trait of man, rather than a fault.
ing classes will bo made on May Day. 
The Senior and Junior classes will 
participate in this and the Freshman 
and Sophomore classes contribute the 
usual morris ami folk dances. Several 
solo dances will also take place. The 
winding of the May pole will bo omit
ted this year. The procession headed 
by the May Queen, Miss Isabel Gnrn
berger, will form at four-thirty and 
proceed to FlagstalT- Hill.
The program of solo dances is as
i()n Friday afternoon of May Mth 
the annual May Day Fete will ho stagoiV'FlagstalV Hill by Margaret Morri
son girls. This year special pains 
htive been taken to make it. the best 
evr ' held as it will be one of the
feature of campus week. The dancers 
will , be on the top of the hill while 
the  audience will be seated on the slope. *';
Severhh how things in the dancing 
are to be introduced this year. The 
first appearance of the aesthetic danclollows: Miss Mary Zahobsky as the 
fairy, Miss Dorothy Turkic as Jack 
Frost. Miss Zarobsky and Miss Tur
kic are Juniors. The Junior Class 
will also have two enterpretive group 
dances, the Fairy Ring danced to 
ICussners Dance of the Nymphs
And soif you arc bored by the slov
enly dress of the man across the car 
from youlook upon him as express
ing a characteristic of man rather 
than a fault and you will see humor in 
it. Realize that he may be seeing as 
much humor in your picadilly collar
BOGGS & BUHL
501 FEDERAL ST., 
ALLEGHANY
GEO. M. WILSON
225 FIFTH AVE., 
Chamber of Commers Building
Wood & Diamond Sts.
0002010148235300020048020000010200004823530201482353020148010002004802004800010200020001020101000200022300020001000248020002234802020000

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 12, 1920.THE TARTAN.PAGE THREE
tfJJl uerifiing for ife Drafting 'Room.
Clucas. It has had a long: run in 
London, and is now being presented 
in America for the first time. Green
wich Village, the American Bohemian 
quarter, is the locale of the play, r 
fact which will recall the recent pre
sentation of the Greenwich Village 
Follies at the Alvin Theatre. In its 
abridged form The Fall of Eve 
treats of the same sort of Bohemianism that the Follies depicted. John
ny Jones and Marion Greenlee will 
perform a domestic tilt entitled What 
Did You Do? It is a comedy based 
upon incompatibility, and has a breezy 
rapid fire exchange of repartee to 
speed along a droll action.
chestra and pipe organ will be all-day 
features. Performances will be con
tinuous from 10:00 A. INI. till 11:00 P.
SATURDAY, MAY 15, 1920 
Schenley Oval 
PROGRAM OF EVENTS
1100-yard Dash, trial heats, Schools, 
1:00 p. m.
2100-yard Dash, Colleges, 1:05 p. m.
3120-yard High Hurdles, trial heats, 
Schools, 1:15 p. m.
4120-yard High Hurdles, Colleges, 
1:20 p. m.
5One Mile Run, Schools, 1:30 p. m.
6One Mile Run, Colleges, 1:40 p. m.
7440-yard Dash, Schools, 1:50 p. m.
8440-yard Dash, Colleges, 2:00 p. m.
9120-yd. High Hurdles, final Schools 
2:10 p. m.
10100-yat*d Dash, final, Schools, 
2:20 p. m.
11Two Mile Run, Colleges, 2:25 p.
)ave onyour 'rawiriQ supplies
Smart Spring S 
for Young Men 
are Ready!
NOTEArticles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.
Everything for the 
drafting room.
Complete stock of 
high grade materials 
at consistent prices.THE GRAND THEATRE.
Douglas MacLean and Doris May, 
the lively pair that Thomas H. Looe 
discovered and has given the public 
in comedy-drama films, will be seen in 
their latest dashing production, 
Mary's Ankle, as the feature of the 
program at Pittsburghs New Million 
Dollar Grand all next week, starting 
Monday morning, May 17. Mr. MacLean and Miss May first attracted at
tention to Twenty Three and A Half 
Hours Leave, and their second pic
ture, Whats Your Husband Doing? 
was so good that it was shown as part 
of the Second Anniversary program at 
the Grand. Marys Ankle is said to 
be even more entertaining than either 
of the previous successes. It is based 
on May Tullys speaking stage farce 
of the same name, which was present
ed for the first time in New York in 
1917, with Irene Fenwick in the lead
ing role.
Mr. MacLean has an infectious 
smile and an easy, natural manner of 
acting. His characterizations are real 
as well as very funny, and his per
sonality is irresistible. Miss May is 
pretty and injects a breeziness that 
charms into her work. In the sup
porting cast are Victor Botel, Neal 
Burns, James Gordon, who hails from 
this city; Lizette Thorne and Ida 
Lewis. The screen adaptation was 
made by Luther B. Reed, with Thomas 
H. Ince giving the production his per
sonal supervision.
Completing the program will be a 
Fox Sunshine comedy, Training for 
Husbands; the Grand News Weekly 
and the Topics of the Day. Sym
phony orchestra and pipe organ will 
play specially arranged programs with 
the pictures, the. orchestra also giving 
a charming extra number. Both or-.
LOSTA swimming medal. Finder 
please turn it in at Dean Tarbells 
office.
FOUNDTwo-blade, gold-handled 
pen knife turned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, Friday, April 9th. Found on 
campus.* * *
FOUNDHancocks Applied Me
chanicsturned in to Dean Tarbells 
office, March 22, 1920.* * *
FOUNDSmall gold pin in Carnegie 
Union April 19. Apply Dean Tar
bells office.
230-234 Diamond Street, 
PITTSBURGH, PA.12200-yard Low Hurdles, trial 
heats, Schools, 2:40 p. m.
13220-yard Low Hurdles, Colleges, 
2:50 p. m.14220-yd. Dash, trial heats, Schools, 
3:00 p. m.
15220-yard Dash, Colleges, 3:05 p.
The new models are particularly handsome and 
stylishboth single and double breamed!
Serviceable, all-wool fabrics, and patterns which 
are unusually nobby!
Our chain-fitore system affords saving of from $5 
to $10. Satisfaction guaranteed.
16One-Half Mile Run, Schools, 3:10 
p. m.17One-Half Mile Run, Colleges, 
3:20 p. m.
18220-yard Dash, final, Schools, 3:30 
p. m.
19220-yard Low Hurdles, final, 
Schools, 3:40 p. m.
20One Mile Relay, Schools, 3:40 
p. m.
21Pole Vault, Schools, 3:50 p. m.
22Pole. Vault, Colleges, 1:00 p. m.
23Shot Put, Schools, 1:00 p. m.
24Shot Put, Colleges, 1:00 p. m.
25Hammer Throw, Schools, 2:00 
p. m.26Hammer Throw, Colleges 2:00 
p. m.
27Running High Jump, Schools 2:30 
p. m.28Running High Jump, Colleges 
2:30 p. m.29Throwing the Discus, Schools, 
Schools, 3:00 p. m.
30Throwing the Discus, Colleges, 
3:00 p. m.31Running Broad Jump, Schools, 
3:30 p. m.32Running Broad Jump, Colleges, 
3:30 p. m.33Throwing the Javelin, Schools, 
3:30 p. m.34Throwing the Javelin, Colleges, 
3:30 p. m.
The above order of events and time 
of competition will be adhered to 
strictly, except events past 1:30 
oclock or 2:00 may be run ahead of 
schedule.Track ManagerKeep this sheet of 
information and make certain that 
your team is ready to enter the events 
at the time shown.General Information1. Rules of 
the . Inter-Collegiate Association of 
Amateur Athletes of America will 
govern this meet.2. Gold, Silver and Bronze Medals 
will be awarded the winners in all 
events. Silver cup being given to the 
school winning the greatest number 
of points. Individual silver cups will 
be given to each man on the winning 
Interscholastic Relay Team.
3. The scoring of points will be as 
follows: 5 for the first, 4 for the sec
ond, 3 for the third, 2 for the fourth 
and 1 for the fifth.4. The number of contestants in 
each event is limited to five men from 
each institution. More than five men 
may be entered in any event, but only 
five from each institution may com
pete in that event.5. The Entries from each institu
tion must be certified by the proper 
officials, of the Athletic Association 
and by the President, Dean, Principal 
or Professor.
6. Meet starts at 1:00. Contestants 
must report to Clerk of Course before 
12:45.
LOSTA Theta Xi Fraternity Pin on 
Campus. Finder please return to 1). 
B. Gawthrop, Science 20.* * *
FOUNDIn C. I. T. Library. Seeds 
Principles of Machine Drawing. 
Macmillans logarithmic and trig, 
tables (marked property of Baum 
Blvd. Terror. B. B. T., come and get 
your book.) Miscellaneous odd 
gloves. Apply C. 1: T. Library.* * *
Found:Fountain pen on Campus, 
April 30. Apply Office, Dean of Men. * * *
Found: Cap in 117 Industries Bldg. 
on May 3rd. Inquire at Dean Tarbells office.
Lost: About May 5thprobably in 
Machinery Hall, set of Dietzens 
drawing instruments. Finder please 
return to Dean Tarbells office.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the moat thoroughly 
organized, atrongeat financial
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
tny account, large or small, 
irith care and competency.
Ultra-Class Suits, $45 and $50
Good Clothes
302-304 State Street
Pittsburgh, Pa.
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDSAKRON
AMSTERDAM
CLEVELAND
MILWAUKEE
READINO
PITTSBURGH 
(3 atoron) 
ROCHESTER 
SCHENECTADY 
SYRACUSE
SCRANTON 
TRENTON 
TERRA HAUTE 
WILKES-BARRE 
Y0UN08T0WN
If your fountain pen is in need of repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, dance programs, favors, special felt goods or Tech recognition pins, call at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSEPATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS.
3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGERuddy Studio of DancingDRESS SUITS
4616 Forbes St., Near Craig. Phone Schenley 9326FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alberts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.Mrs. Alice E. Ruddy, announces the opening of the Modern Dancing 
Class. Every Friday Evening at 8:30 to 11 OclockWHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT GO.II PiwnM 71 A S1SS Schenley 
P. A A. 1SSB-R 
22$ ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
HMmlMld Oda Meved, Stered,
Paekad and SHIpp!.
The Ladies and Gentlemen of Tech arc most cordially 
invited to join
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
All the world
loves a lover 
And all discriminating 
lovers of cigarettes love 
Murads
Because Murads are pure Turk
ish, the worlds most famous tobacco 
for cigarettes.
And the Fame of Murads grows 
and grows and growsthey are 1 00 
per cent Turkish, and they are 1 00 
per cent popular with connoisseurs 
everywhere.
It is true that ordinary 
cigarettes cost a trifle less.
Uufief &ljalrm (ttongmjattnn
Fifth and Morewood Avenue.
Samuel H. Goldenaon, Ph. D., Rabbi.
Temple Study Tel., Schenley 275. 
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
Grace Church
(Reform Ml)
AYARD and DITHRIDQE STREETS 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Miniatar. 
SERVICES:
Bom 4a.y School45 A. M.
Morning Worahl*11 4, *LSocial hour and LuncKeon for stu
dents, 15c, at 6 o'clock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
THE NEW DAVIS.
Notably varied and promisingly ar
tistic is the program of Keith vaude
ville announced for the forthcoming 
week, beginning Monday afternoon, 
May 17, by the management of the 
Davis Theatre. It will consist of nine 
selected attractions which will be giv
en in the composite bill twice a day, 
starting respectively at 2:15 and 8:15 
oclock. There are three women stars 
in the roster of player-folk. Marie 
Cahill tops the bill. She will present 
Cahillisms of 1920 with Marse Cook, 
pianist, as her accompanist.
Amelia Stone, also a musical com
edy and light opera star, will appear 
with Armand Kalisz in A Song Ro
mance. In this two clever people 
will be aided at the piano by Mr. Paul 
Parnell. The production is an oper
etta in modern form, words, lyrics and 
music, as well as scenic and lighting 
effects, having been conceived by Mr. 
Kalisz.Marie Meeker, known as Dainty 
Marie and the Venus of the Air, is 
the third woman star of the bill. She 
will be assisted by Margarette Meek
er in exploits on a flying trapeze, and 
in a group of songs and dances. Sxquisitely formed, dainty Marie is a 
physically perfect woman, as her 
shapely figure and daring exploits 
aloft will disclose. The Fall of Eve 
is the title of a comedy by Arthur 
Eckersley, formerly one of the editors 
of Punch, the English comic period
ical, which will be played by Mabel 
I Cameron, Alan Devitt and C. Carroll
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN !
CHURCH 
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenue*
Rmy. Robert MacQawan, D. D  
Mlnlatar.
Preaching Sarvloaa 11 and S. 
Sunday aohael at 10.
Chrlatlan Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boy to atLend our service* and learn to ] 
know un a* the congregation ot  
Friendly People." A hearty ; > leome await* yon.Judge for yourself/
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Mattie*: 1:10, 1:00, 9:00, 10:00 and
11:00 A. M. oa Sunday* and Holy 
Day*.Veapar* on Sunday* at 7:10 P U. 
P*w 18. Mlddl* MeteWo for Teek Sta
AkkofdieHidiirtClfndTuAJi 
andfj^pUan anilainOieVMi
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL ONUROM 
F'< worth Avenue and Neville Straet 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Aaalatant. 
Sunday Berrioea. 1:0# A_ M., 11 :H 
A M and 1:00 P. M-Oollef* Mae** Bible Glaaa at 10 s 00, 
led by Dr. Calrtm.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, MAY 12, 1920.
Budweiser
is with you once again! 
The famous friend of 
old  made by the 
original process in con
formity with the present 
regulationson sale 
everywhere.
BASEBALL TEAM WINS GAMES
(Continued from page 1.) 
right field clone to the foul line, scor
ing Irwin and easily making the trip 
around the four bags himself, for the 
winning run. The crowd went wild, 
cheering madly. They rushed upon 
the field to carry Little Joe, the hero 
of the game, on their shoulders: The 
score:
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
TRAN8IT8 AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Enfllnbora' Equipment, Instrumenta of Preolalon, Blua Print 
and Brown Print Papara *nd 
Clotha.
K. ELLIOTT CO.
1J SIXTH STREET 
iUfiJSl/olMnlMitlJNi
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
P. LUDEBUEHL AND SON
PENN AND P^'^KSTOWN 
AVENUES
fn.no to fio.no
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
EXPENSE by buying bettor 
uhoea. You will find them far 
cheaper to wour than nhoen 
which are not bo high In quality.
Our new modeln for FALL and 
WINTER are now In, und they 
a re full of nnapJunt nullable 
for the oollefle man.
THE GRAFF CO.
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
SK'BO INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
RBLDCVO FHB0
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes $
FRED PARCEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry j|
Agency.
^
\T-<r~~ vzzvc?v=f
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Hellefield 
| Shoo Repairing Co.
W Across from the Library
Carnegie Tech.
Players. R HPAi*;
J. Daugherty, 2..... 12140
R. Daugherty, 2 .. .1)21 100
Durkin, 1 .............100000
1100
Johnston, m.............. J2810
Lynn, s......................002::1
Dvluskus, 3 ...........02010
1922
McCaw, p...............00010
Totals .................51027123
Grove City. 
Players. R IIPAE
2280
Fallen, c..................13G50
Smith, 2 .................02220
Sellers, s.................01131
Gould, 1 .................0111.'{1
Porter, m ...............01200
Tobin, 1 .................12100
Sakmir, r...............00000
Lowers, p ...............,12010
Totals...................414*25141
Juniata.
Players.RHPAE.... 08002__11120
___221010__00210
... .22020
Oiler, 2 ................ .22021
Meloy, 3 .............. .22020
... .11001
... .11000
Totals12 24 11
* Batted for Weiss in fourth.
Juniata ...........1 2 2 2 0
Tech .......12 0 10 1
0 0 0- 
2 2*-
*0110 out when winning run was 
scored.
1 i 1 ' -s-flfl h sMTM Grove City . .0 I) 0 0 0 0 3 0 14 
Tech .0 2 0 0 0 0 3 0 15
Two-base hitsSmith, Tobin 2. 
Home run>J. Daugherty. Stolen 
ba.icsGodden 2, Johnston, Dvluskus. 
Double playJ. Daugherty to Lynn to 
R. Daugherty. First base on balls 
Off McCaw 2, off Lowers 2. Passed 
ball- -Irwin. Hit by pitcherBy Low
er.: (Irwin). First base on errorsj 
Crovc City 1, Tech 1. Sacrifice bunts 
Godden, Stephanian. Left on bases 
Tech 6, Grove City 8. Struck out 
by McCaw 7, by Lowers 5. Time of 
game2:15. UmpireDaugherty.
SATURDAYS GAME
Carnegie Techs baseball nine stag
ed a wonderful comeback in the last 
three innings of the fame, Saturday 
afternoon, with Juniata winning by a 
final tally of i) to 8.
Big Dent Moon did creditable 
work, starting in the fifth inning, he 
allowed two hits which scored two 
runs in that frame because he had not 
warmed up sufficiently but after that 
the visitors were held hitless. Sat
urdays game showed up fine for Moon 
as he had worked under difficulties 
in the West Virginia game.
While Moon was holding Juniata 
scoreless, Tech players got busy with 
the bat and coming up from behind 
with a four-run lead to overcome, won 
the game by scoring five runs in the 
last three chapters.
The visitors started out with a ven
geance in the opening inning and put 
a counter across the plate without a 
hit to their credit. Snyder, their lcadofl man, struck out and the next man, 
Warsing, got a free pass to first. 
Flory, their catcher, captain and 
coach, was hit by the pitcher and both 
runners advanced when Graham 
struck out. Warsing scored the first 
tally of the game on a passed ball 
by Irwin. Hannon furnished the third 
strike-out victim for Weiss. In their 
half of this period the Tartan clan 
evened up matters when, after Joe 
Daugherty had doubled, brother Ray 
singled and Joe scorod, Ray taking 
second on the throw. Oiler and Wolf
gang scored for Juniata in the second 
inning, on Snyders single. Combin
ing a walk, a hit batsman, and a single 
Tech tied the count in their half.
Juniata went into the lead when 
Hannon knocked Flory in with a sin
gle. Tech failed to count in their 
half. Juniata garnered two more runs 
in the first half of the fourth when, 
after Oller and Donelson had both hit, 
they scored on Snyders two-bagger 
to middle field. Tech managed to get 
one across in their half, added by 
Juniatas errors Dvluskus scoring. 
Juniata tallied two more in the next 
chapter on Florys single, a sacrifice, 
a passed ball, another single, a field
ers choice and an error by Lynn, who 
fumbled Meloys hard-hit grounder. A 
double play spoiled Techs chances of 
scoring in their half of this period.
The Plaid offensive began in the 
next frame when they scored one run. 
Moon contributed a triple after two 
were down and scored on Ray Daugh
ertys single over second. In the next 
inning Godden singled through short. 
Johnston bunted and was safe on an 
error by the first baseman Red God
den and Johnston. In the last of the 
eighth Joe Daugherty singled through 
second and Ray followed with a hit in 
the same place, Joe going to third. 
Godden then hit through third, the 
two Daugherty brothers scoring the 
tying and winning run. Juniata was 
easy, going out one, two, three in the 
first half of the ninth. The score:
Carnegie Tech.
Players. R II P A E
Daugherty, J. 2 .........2 2 2 5 1Daugherty, R. I ___1 8 10 0 0
Durkin, 1 .....................0 8 1 0 0
Godden, r ......................I 2 1 0 0
Johnston, m ................2 8 .1 1 0
Lynn, s ..........................1 0 0 2 1
DeVel, 8 ........................1 2 0 1 1
Irwin, c .......................0 8 12 2 1
Weiss, p .......................1 1 0 0 0
Moon, p ........................1 1 0 0 0
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.Totals20 27 12 4
Two-base hitsJ. Daugherty, R. 
Daugherty, Snyder. Three-base hit 
Moon. Double playsMeloy to Bannon, J. Daugherty to Lynn, to R. 
Daugherty. First base on ballsOfF 
Weiss 1, off Moon 1, off Donelson 2. 
Passed ballsIrwin 2. Hit with pitch
ed ballLynn and Flory. Sacrifice 
fliesGraham. Struck outBy Weiss 
8, by Moon , by Donelson 4. Time of 
game 2:30. UmpireDan. Daugher
ty.'----------O----------
CAMPUS WEEK 
(Continued from page 1.)
negie Music Hall and get the latest 
dope on the rest of the week, then 
get in the Pee-rade back to the cam
pus. Be on hand to welcome the 
Plebes as true Tech men after they 
bu their Plebe hats, black ties and 
socks and add their link to the Car
negie Chain. 
The Qualification Day exercises are 
to be done up in wonderful style this 
year and old man Plebe Regulations' 
is promised a glorious funeral. Tap 
Day, which is a new affair at Tech 
has an interesting program. Be then 
to congratulate your class mates who 
are elected to membership in the hon
orary societies of the Institute.
In the evening the entire campu: 
will be lighted and you can visit the 
other Divisions and see for yours i 
how the engineers do calculus, make 
terrible smelling concoctions in their 
labs, also how and where the archi
tects and decorators spend so many 
hours studying art. Then step into 
the little theater or the green room 
and get the inside dope on the dramats. The Industry group will be 
open and after an hours browsing 
around there you will be convinced 
that a man from there should be able 
to do almost anything. You can wanler through Maggie Murph quite safe
ly at this time and satisfy your curio
sity about a lot of things you wanted 
to see or know and never had the 
jierve to find out because there were 
always so many girls around.
Friday morning you must be on 
deck early, so get some sleep. The 
world defying fraternity push-mobile 
sweepstakes will take place. All contestants must be ready to start 
promptly at 9:30 in front of Margaret 
Morrison. The course is up Tech 
street, down thru the Park, ,up,,past 
Industries and finish in frontliof Mag
gie Murph. There are ten entries of 
the most dare-devil drivers, piloting 
machines entered by the different fra
ternities. A handsome trophy is to 
be awarded the winner. It has been 
rumored there is some heavy betting 
on the favorite contestants.
After this awe inspiring spectacle 
the juniors of all the schools are con
ducting a tree planting ceremony 
whifih it is hoped will become an an
nual attempt to improve the appear
ance of our campus. The trees, ten in 
number, are to be planted in front of 
the Division of the Arts as a mem
orial to those Tech men who lost their 
lives in the great war.
The rest of the day will be chucked 
full of baseball games, tennis match
es, an R. O. T. C. drill and a Y. W. C. 
A. festival conducted by the M. M. 1).
,girls In the evening you can dance 
in the Union from 9:80 to 2:00 a. m. 
and in the foyer of the Arts Building 
Ala-Radio after a play to be given in 
the little theater.
Saturday the Alumni-Varsity base
ball teams will clash at 10 a. m. when 
the grads will try to show they still 
remember a few things about the old 
game. The Tech Interscholastic 
track meet will start at noon at the 
Oval. Get around to it and show our 
prep school visitors what real Tech 
hospitality is so that they will want 
to come here when they go to college, 
At 2 p. m. Techs flying architect, Bob 
Dake, will show the crowds a thin; 
or two about gamboling thru the 
clouds and smoke of Pittsburgh over 
the campus.
About the time your neck is stiff 
watching Bob you will hear a couple 
bands and lots of noise over at the 
athletic field where some one will 
have discovered the marvelous Tech 
circus has opened. There will be a 
flock of rare and terrible freaks in the 
side shows and some hair raising 
thrillers in the big ring, popcorn, ice
cream cones chewing gum and pink 
lemonade will make you think you 
are watching a combined Barnum and 
Bailey, Ringling Bros, circus. During 
the evening the Alumni Federation 
will hold a banquet for all alumni at 
the Fort Pitt Hotel while in the Union 
there will be a smoker for all under
graduate men. You should be there 
to talk Tech and welcome the pre
paratory school and high school ath
letes who will be our guests.
The Margaret Morrison girls are 
to have a big time in their gym.
Be sure to see everything during the 
celebration and lend a hand wherever 
they need a boost, help put Campus 
Week across so that next year we 
can have back twice as many alumni 
and have three times as big a cele
bration. If you are a real Tech man 
do something, dont sit down and won
der why there isnt any spirit.
WRIGLEY5
flavors like the 
pyramids of Egypt?
Because they are 
long-lasting.
And WRIGLEYS is a beneficial 
as well as long-lasting treat.
It helps appetite and digestion, 
keeps teeth clean and breath 
sweet, allays thirst.
CHEW IT AFTER EUERV MEAL
Sealed Tight- Kept Right
A10
Q.S.T.-Tech Radio-Men
Up-to-Date Radio Apparatus
THE MOST COMPLETE LINE IN THE CITY
Stop in and Give Us the Once Over, O. M.
C. U. L. 73 VRAPHEL ELECTRIC CO.
At 1405 Fifth Ave., City
GRANT 3520
FINEST SWIMMING POOL 
IN THE WORLD
Open All Year and Every Day 
Pool Reserved for Women Tuesday and Thursday 
All Other Days for Men
PITTSBURGH NATATORIUM 
540 DUQUESNE WAY
DO YOU DANCE?
PANCINO LESSON CLASS AND PRIVATI
JACIUII IANCINS A C A  I M Y 
ORAia AND rORSCS BILL PHON
BATTERY
Exide"
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
