j Inter-Night Dance  
I Langley Laboratory. 
Friday, May 5 jamsgie Hbtati
TENNIS 
Lehigh Vs. Carnegie 
Tech Courts Apr. 2S
VOL. XVI. NO. 30CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1922
NOMINEES FOR 
COUNCIL PRES. 
EXPRESS VIEWS
Give Opinions on Graduate 
Manager of Non-Athletic 
Activities and the Student 
Activities Board
"WILL HELP VOTERS
Immediately after nominations were 
opened for President of the Student 
Council,, the various nominees for the 
office from the different colleges were 
interviewed by a Carnegie Tartan re
porter and a word in regard to their 
opinion on topics of vital interest to 
the 'student body was obtained. The 
office of President of the Student 
Council is an office whereby the suc
cess of the student government rests. 
With the idea in mind that the student 
body would be better able to pick the 
right man for the job by a little en
lightenment as to their ideas and ac
tivities, the Carnegie Tartan has ob
tained data which will be of aid to the 
voters.
Prom the nominee elected from each 
school will be elected one man to hold 
the office of President of the Student 
Council for the ensuing year.
In interviewing the various candi
dates they were approached without 
previous notice and for that reason 
their opinion in the different matters 
was based only on what they thought 
of the questions through daily discus
sion heard on the campus. None were 
prepared but expressed their opinions 
on the spur of the moment, showing 
that what they had to say was spoken 
from their own mind and belief and 
not from thorough consideration of 
the questions.
J. T. Ames was not interviewed, 
having been away as one of the repre
sentatives of the student body, at a 
conference on student government 
held in Kentucky. Ames is a Junior 
in the Mechanical Department of the 
College of Science and Engi
neering and at present presi
dent of the Junior Class. 1-Ie 
is also treasurer of the Student Activ
ities Board, was sales manager of the 
Thistle during 1920-21 and is treasur
er of Campus Week for this year. Mr. 
Ames was at one time a member of 
the Tartan staff and is a member of 
the Dragons and Delta Skull.'
C. F. Bowers, a Junior Architect in 
the College of Fine Arts, when ap
proached in regard to the question of 
graduate manager said: It would
help alleviate trouble between the 
Student Council and the Student Ac
tivities Board and clear up a great 
many of the organization difficulties. 
Such an office would take charge of 
all financial affairs and be checked up 
(Continued on Page Four.)
INTERNATIONAL
CARNEGIE TARTAN CAMPUS 
WEEK EDITION OUT
NEXT WEDNESDAY
- Next week's issue of the Carnegie j P Y I R IT Q PP|\J ^ 
Tartan will be the Campus Week | * A -* A A A vy A
number. A similar edition was put j /'vt t  t t\ l_,r\ T\ A \7
out last year containing advance in- I I A Y
formation including the complete pro- V-/ U 11 L/L/1V kJ LJ X.
gram of festivities. The next issue 
will have all this dope, giving both 
students and alumni an inside idea of 
what is coming off on May 25, 2G and 
27.
Alumni are particularly urged to 
watch for the program of events and 
make their plans accordingly. As a 
forerunner of the big celebration the 
edition should arouse plenty of spirit | 
and interest and put everyone on | 
edge for the opening day.
Senator Pepper Will Give 
Principal Address. Select
ions by Pittsburgh Chamber 
of Commerce Quartet
ALL ARE INVITED TO 
QUAKER BALL, MAY 5
Commercial Clubs Annual
Ball to be Held in Union.iMusic by Collegiate Six
The annual Quaker Ball, which, is 
given each year bv the Commercial 
Club, will be held this year in the 
Union. The date has been set for 
Friday,i May 5. This dance is one 
of the best dances held by Carnegie 
Tech Clubs during the year. The 
tickets will be on sale within a few 
days and anyone who wishes to at
tend would do well to secure his 
ticket as soon as possible.
The Dance Committee has assured 
the success of the- dance by engag
ing the Collegiate Six as a feature 
traction. Everyone on the campus 
is eligible to attend, as it is desired 
that everyone Ibtecome acquainted 
with the Commercial dub and the 
affairs which it holds-. A very fine 
evening is assured to all those who 
care to tome and a cordial invitation 
is extended by the Commercial Club.
Graphica Club Completes 
Extensive Inspection Tour
New Feature of Campus 
Week, Rennys Place
Comedy Staged by Students 
of College oi Fine Arts
One of the new features of the 
-Campus Week program this year 
will be the play Renny Place, 
given by the students: of the College 
of Fine Arts on Saturday night, May 
27, at the Schenley Theater. The 
play will close the program of events, 
talcing the place of the Carnegie 
Tech Circus of last year, and every 
effort is being used to make the play 
a brilliant success'. The ipatronage 
of the puiblic will not be solicited 
and all the seats will be reserved for 
the students. There will be a small 
tax in addition to the 'Campus Week 
tag.
The title of the play is Rennys 
Place and the setting is a restau
rant  Renny's Place'brought with 
the proceeds from a second-hand car. 
It isi a four-act comedy and the 
period is modern. Harry Hamilton, 
a student of the College of Fine Arts 
and recipient of. the Carnegie Hero 
Medal and Scholarship, is the author 
of the comedy, obtaining the iplot 
from a true happening in Chester, 
111.
This will be the only presentation 
of the play in Pittsburgh. Several of 
the big New York producers are 
planning to buy the comedy and 
present it in a New York theatre.
Members of the Graphica Club who 
were lucky enough to participate in 
the Easter Inspection Trip bring back 
great tales of the joyful experiences 
occurring on the tour. Twenty-five 
members left Wednesday, April 5, for 
Springfield, and, arrived there Thurs
day morning. They were met by rep
resentatives of the Strattmore Paper 
Company, who entertained them dur
ing their stay there, also on the trip 
to Mitteneague, where the paper mills 
are located.
The American Writing Paper Co. 
at Holyoke, and the Babcock Print
ing Press Manufacturing Co. at New 
London, also gave the inspectors a 
cordial welcome and a pleasurable 
time on Friday and Saturday.
Saturday evening the members left 
for New York where they were joined 
on Sunday by instructors Thacker, 
Creech and Martin of the Printing 
Department, who accompanied them 
on the remainder of the trip. Some 
of the printing plants inspected while 
there were: Wynlcoop-I-IallenbeckCrawford Company, Merganthaler Lin(Continued on Page Four.)
FIRST M. A. DEGREE IN
MUSIC TO C. A. PEARSON
SUBMIT 250 PICTURES
The annual Founders Day exercises 
will open in the Music Hall, Thursday, 
April 27, at 3 oclock, with the invoca
tion by Rev. Dr. L. Walter Mason, 
pastor of the First Unitarian Church 
of Pittsburgh. The committee in 
charge promises one of the best pro
grams in the history of the institute.
George Wharton' Pepper, a promin
ent Senator, will make the principal 
address. The organist and director 
of the institute, Charles Heinrotli, 
will render two special selections and 
a male quartet of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce will occupy a 
place on the program.
In connection with the Founders 
Day exercises the annual Internation
al Art Exhibit will be opened to the 
public. Included in the exhibit are 
one hundred and twenty-three foreign 
and one hundred and twenty-seven 
domestic paintings representing, re
spectively, that number of artist^.
Among the entries are included 
seven from the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology  Norwood MacGilvery, 
Charles J. Taylor, George Satter, Mal
colm Parcell, William Wolfson, Vin
cent Nesbort, F. W. Metzlces. These 
contributors have all been conencted 
with the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology at some time.
ALAN BRIGHT TO SPEAK AT AS
SOCIATION OF REGISTRARS 
CONVENTION
Pittsburgh will be represented at 
the Eleventh Meeting of the Amer
ican Association of 'Collegiate RegisRECITAL GIVEN BY THE
STRING ENSEMBLE CLASS 
MUSIC DEPT. NEXT SUNDAY
in G
Under the direction of Karl A. 
Malcherek, at Arts Theater, Sunday. 
April 30, 1922, at 8:15 p. m.
1. Handel. Concerto grosso
major. Op. G, No. 1 
A tempo giusto-Allegro 
Adagio-Allegro ;
Allegro
Dorothy Cummings, Jeannette Spat1- 
holt at the piano.
2. Bach. Concerto in C minor, for
two violins and piano
Allegro
Adagio
Allegretto.
Max Silverman, Marie Kleyle, Alice 
Kirk.
(First performance, in Pittsburgh.)
3. Mozart. Serenade in G major
Allegro
Romanze
Menuetto
Rondo.
4. Grainger. Willow willow (with
string quartet accompaniment.) 
Reineclce. Spring Flowers 
(with violin obligato.) 
Gertrude Fraley.
5. Debussy. I Danse Sacree
II Danse Profane 
For piano and string orchestra. 
Oscar L. Helfenbein at the piano.
INTER-NIGHT SCHOOL 
DANCE NEXT FRIDAY
Seventh Annual Dance Will 
be Held in the 
Langley Lab.
ALL PLANS ARE 
COMPLETE FOR 
CONVENTION
Second Open Convention on 
Commercial Engineering 
Will Begin Here Next. 
Monday, May 1
ORGANIZATIONS ON PRO
BATION MUST REPORT TO 
STUDENT COUNCIL FRIDAY
All organizations which were1 put 
on probation by the Student Council 
must have written reports turned in 
to the Student Council before noon 
Friday, April SO. The reports should 
be left at. the post office, care of 
Student. Council, Box 125.
PROMINENT SPEAKERS
The Social Committee m charge of 
preparations for the' seventh annual 
Inter-Night School Dance has decided 
that the dance shall be held in 
Langley Laboratory, .Friday evoning, 
May 5, from 9 till 1:00 a m.
All who were present at last years 
Night School Dance will recall the 
good time tiliey had and what a real 
success the affair was, 'and are an
ticipating another joyful time as the 
occasion rolls around Lhiai year. The 
committee have been working hard,
trars in St. Louis, April 25, 2G and ' putting forth their very best efforts 
27 by John G. Quick, Registrar at to make this dance one to be reniemUniversity of Pittsburgh, and Alan 
Bright, Registrar at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Both local men speak at the con
vention. Mr. Quick will discuss "The 
A. A. C. R. Uniform Transcript 
Blank, and Mr Bright will speak on 
The Problem of Absences."
CARNEGIE DEGREE RING 
SUBMITTED TO COUNCIL
Charles A. H. Pearson, son of Mrs, 
Eva H. Pearson, 91G Cedar street, has 
the honor of being the first student at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology to 
win the degree of Master of Arts in 
Music. On May 28, in Carnegie Mu
sic /Hall, Mr. Pearson will give an or
gan recital before the public as the 
final qualification for the degree.
Mr. Pearsons ability as an organist 
is already known in Pittsburgh. He 
is assistant to Dr. Charles Heinroth, 
organist  at Carnegie Institute. In 
church connections he is assistant or
ganist at the First Presbyterian 
Church in Pittsburgh, and organist 
and choir director at the second U. P. 
Church, in Wilkinsburg.
Mf. Pearson won his degree as 
Bachelors of Arts at Carnegie Tech 
last year, returning this year as a 
candidate for the Masters degree, 
Prior to the matriculation at Carnegie 
Tech. he attended the public Schools 
in Washington, D. C. and Mercer 
Academy, Grove City, Pa.
FREE CONCERT TO BE GIVEN
BY MUSIC DEPT MAY 14
GUEST DAY AT THE WED.
AFTERNOON DANCE AT ARTS
The Wednesday afternoon dance at 
Arts this week will be the biggest 
of the season, in that each student 
at Arts may bring one guest.
These dances have always proved 
very popular and the committee de
cided to have a few of these invita
tion dances every year.. This is the 
starter.
So get a date with one of the 
Artists.
The Tech Novelty Orchestra will 
have their entire number on hand 
to supply; the music.
ED. A. WOODS SPEAKS TO
LIFE INSURANCE CLASS
Edward A. Woods of the Edward 
A. Woods Company, spoke to the 
Life Insurance class at Carnegie In
stitute of Technology yesterday on 
Social ^Sack-Ground of Life InsurThe Ring Committee .presented a 
finished degree' ring to the Student 
Couiiiciil for approval. It has been 
approved by the Alumni Federation. 
Council reserved its decision until 
later. It will be necessary to get the 
approval of the Executive Committee 
of the Administration, the Ring Com
mittee and the Student Council to in
sure final acceptance. Tills will prob
ably be done within the next week. 
The ring has a thistle design on the 
shank. It has an amethyst stone. 
Around the stone Carnegie Institute 
Terihnology, Pittsburgh, is inscribed.
The following committee has been 
appointed to award the Swoipe prize 
to the girl wlio> has done the most 
for Carnegie this year. From Mar
garet Morrison; Miss Bowman. Mrs. 
Spencer and Miss Dorothy Grant; 
from Arts College: Misses Siemon, 
Sara Floyd, Frances Burrows.
The organizations committee an
nounced that all organizations on 
probation should make their reports 
before Friday noon. The reports 
should be turned in to the Student1 
Council, Box 125, C. I. T. P. O.
Dean Tarbell at Conference
A* free concert will be given Sun
day, May 14, in Carnegie Music 
Hall, by the Symphony Orchestra of Oollese Deans and Student Self-GovDean A. W. Tarbell represented 
Carnegi Institute of Technology, at 
the annual conference of Deans of 
Men of mid-western institutions, 
which was held at the University of 
Kentucky, Lexington, April 20 to 22. 
The officers"f the group for 1922 are: 
President, E. E. Nicholson, dean, Uni
versity of Minnesota; secretary, S. H. 
Goodnight, dean, University of Wis
consin.
The University of Kentucky was 
acting as host to three groups of col
lege representatives: Deans of Men,
bered Avith pleasureto make it even 
more of a success^than last years, 
could that bo possible.
So come along jiff you night stu
dents and step out on May 5. This 
is your danceyour only Intor-nlght 
school social event during tho ontire 
school year. Heros an excellent op
portunity to meet your fellow stu
dents from the night classes in Sci
ence, Industries and Fine Arts.
And just think of it.this. Is an 
absolutely free treat. Admission is 
by1 invitation only, said Invitation 
can bo secured from any of the night 
amsgi officers of your school, tho 
following of whom woro appointed to 
serve1 on the committee in charge of 
arrangements for this dauce.
ArtsMr. K. B. Weber, chairman.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Phius have been practically com
pleted for the convention on Commer
cial Engineering which will be held 
heVe next Monday and Tuesday, May 
1 and 2. The convention has been 
called by the United States Commis
sion of Education on behalf of the 
Committee on Commercial Engineer
ing. This is the second convention on 
this branch of engineering, the other 
convention having been hold in Wash
ington over two years ago.
The convention will bo open to tho 
public and anyone may attend. Invitatoins have been sent out by the Com
missioner of Education to colleges, en
gineering societies, and commercial 
and trade organizations to appoint 
delegates to this gathering. The in
vitations have been enthusiastically 
accepted and everything points to a 
constructive conference.
The subject of commercial engineer
ing is of nation-wide Interest at pres
ent and indications point to a greater 
national interest in this conference 
than in tho previous one. The discus
sion will includo the following topics:
1. Current Practices in Colleges 
Relating to Business Training for En
gineers.
2. Co-ordination of College Train
ing with Industrial Demands.
3. Civic and Social Training of tho 
Engineer.
4. Training of tho Engineer for 
Management of Overseas Engineering 
Projects.
These topics will bo presontod and 
discussed at genomi and round table 
sessions by business mon, oducntors 
and engineers. This will tend toward 
a hotter co-operative program be
tween business and education In onglnoerlng colleges than heretofore ex
isted. Twontymlno collegos havo onlarged their curricula to include com
mercial engineor/ng .since tho time 
of the last conforonco.
Non-Degree Club Will Give 
Dance for Cheerleaders
The Non Degree Association will 
employ the profits of their dance in 
the Union April 28, to buy the white 
flannels now recognized its part of the 
standard Cheerleaders uniforms 
There has been a real need for these 
uniforms since, heretofore, men have 
been obliged to furnish their own uni
forms.
Furthermore, realizing the lack of 
co-operation' between the degree and 
non-degree students, the Association 
desires to establish a closer relation
ship between the two branches by 
giving this dance. Everyone Is invit
ed, the non-degree 'men merely acting 
as hosts.
The music will be furnished by 
Hughes "Collegiate Six and in addi 
tion unique features are promised. A 
committee consisting of E. Strizzi, 
chairman, A. J. Olsen, D. Holbein, D. 
Hutton, E. Lucas, Carlson, and Stillwagon, has been appointed to arrange 
the dance.
Carnegie Institute of Technology. It 
will be the first concert, on a large 
scale, to be undertaken and for the 
occasion the orchestra will be aug
mented by members of the faculty in 
the Department of Music, graduates 
and former students1.
John L. Porter, chairman of the 
Board of Trustees at Carnegie Tech, 
E. Raymond Bossange, director of 
the College of Fine Aits, and J. Vic 
OBrien, head of Department of Mu
sic and Conductor of the Orchestra, 
constitute a committee appointed by 
Mr. Porter to plan the presentation. 
Mr. Bossange frankly announces 
that the concert with an augmented 
Symphony is an experiment, as far 
as the advisability of holding regular 
concerts is concerned.
The proposed augmentation by ex
pert musicians from the faculty and 
graduates of the Music Department
ernment Associations. Two represen
tatives of Carnegie Tech who attend
ed the student government conference 
were Robert B. Nation, president of 
the Student Council, and John T. 
Ames, treasurer of the Board of Stu
dent Activities.
FIRST SPRING SOCIAL HELD
LAST THURSDAY IN UNION
On last Thursday afternoon the 
first spring social was held in the 
Union for the girls of Margaret Mor
rison and College of Fine Arts. The 
admission for the men was twentyfive cents, while the girls wpre ad
mitted free.
The Tartan Entertainers furnish
ed the music for dancing, which 
lasted from 4.30 to 6:00. About 50 
couples were present.
These afternoon socials and tea
ARCHITECTS TO HOLD
NOVEL DANCE FRIDAY
Transforming a'drafting room into 
a Ball Room and then some is the 
work the architects of the College of 
Fine Arts have undertaken Friday 
April 28. The drafting will be the 
scene of an event unknown to Col
lege folk.
The Architects at i) P. M. that night 
will stage an affair which they have 
labelled The Fate' O Th ArkyTeclis. After deliberation and con
sideration the committee has decided 
not to serve any tea as they are of 
the opinion that it would not be ap 
propo.
They are withholding the name of 
the syncopators as they have decided 
that it was a new idea and wish to be 
the inaugurators of same. They do 
not even wish to advertise the price 
of admission for fear too many tick
ets would be sold.
dances are becoming very popular, 
at Tech should make the orchestra! An even greater attendance is exof the best to be held in Pittsburgh, pected at the next dance.
INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL 
RECOGNIZES IOTA SIGMA DELTA
At the last meeting of the Interfraternity Council, the - Iota Sigma 
Delta fraternity was given a voting 
' membership In the council.
This fraternity has been on the 
campus for three or more years, 
which is the requirement for voting 
membership.
Tech Mechanics Club Obtains 
Students Chapter of S. I. E.
PUBLIC VISITS SCHOOL FRI. 
ALL DEPTS. I5USY AT WORK
Several thousand people visited tho 
various colleges last Friday evoning, 
and saw the work done by the many 
students who lent their aid In carry
ing out the program. It was Impos
sible to thoroughly see all tho exhibits 
shown in the throe hours assigned, 
yet everyone gained a good concep
tion of the work carrlod on hero.
Th6 Collogo of Fine Arts probably 
attracted the most poople by Its rath
er elaborate program. A one-act play, 
Dancing Dolls, was twlco glvon by 
tho Department of Drama. Tile Mu
sic Department furnished two recit
als, exhibits on the .Mezzanine Floor, 
and its Symphony Orchestra played 
in the Exhibition Room.
Tho work of the Department of Ar 
chitecture drew many admirers and 
even more visitors found tho exhibits 
in the various studios on the third 
fioor highly interesting. Two models 
were painted and sketched in the 
Life Studios, while similar work was 
carried on in adjoining rooms. The 
Sculpture Studio in the basement was 
crowded most of the time.
The Margaret Morrison . Carnogie 
(Continued on Page Three.)
A Carnegie Song Book Yet!
SUNDAY EVENING RECITALS
April 30String Ensemble Progam, 
Arts Theater. ,
May 7Woodwind Ensemble Pro
gram, Arts Theater.
May 14Symphony Orchestra pro
gram, Carnegie Music Hall.
May 21Miscellaneous Program, 
Arts Theater.
PRELIM. TICKETS 
OUT FOR SOPH HOP.
Dance at Wm. Penn May 12. 
Collegiate Seven 
Will Play
The Soph I-Iop will be held May 12 
at the William Penn Hotel. Dan61ng 
from 9 to 1. Upperclassmen are cor
dially invited to attend. Arrange
ments have been made whereby spe
cial cars will be run to various 
points to eliminate the Inconvenience 
of waiting for the regular cars..
All Sophs 6hould be there, because 
it is THE SOPII HOP of their year. 
YOUR class only ho Ids one Soph Hop 
and do you remember hearing the up
perclassmen remarking that they 
wore sorry because they did not at
tend their hop. DONT BE SORRY!
The dance will bo tho largest af
fair of the year and some novel en
tertainment Is promlsod. Ev Hughes' 
seven will give us something new 
In dance music. This year tho dance 
will bo held to establish a Sopho
more Class scholarship fund. 
(Contlnuod on Page Three.)
CLASS OF 25 
WILL OBSERVE 
POVERTY DAY
Annual Event of Carnegie 
Tech to be Held Today. 
Plebes Must Observe Rules 
Listed Below
PARADE AT 12:30 P. M.
Final pormlsslon has boon socured 
lrom tho Society oC ) Industriai Iflnglnoors lo forni a Stujlent Chaptor oC 
tho society ut tho College of Indmitrlos, iunior th ftUHjfios of th Dopartmont ql1 Machino .r^oductlon.
This studont ohaptuf wllljbo ono of 
tho- fi rat (itudont onaptors to ho 
forinoci: ohapter iiavlng boon formed 
at two otlier uchools of high ordor. 
The chaptor eH an outgrowth of tho 
Tech MochaniB Club, prie of tho oldost and moHt native dopar montiti 
club In tho school, and in under tho 
chargo pf Professor Loods, head ol 
tho dopartmont.
Tho actutti formatici! of tho chaptor 
wlll talco placo wlthln tho con rito of 
a Woolc or fcwo, and wlll -ho open to 
studenti] of tho upppr tlirop ciminoli In 
Ilio Dopartmont of Machino Produc
tion, nino thoso In tho upper chiusoli 
In tho olhor dopartmonts in tho Col
logo of Industrio, who are Intorestod 
In th worlc of tho society and oxpoct 
to follow ono of tho linea of Industriai 
engineering. Thoso men aro ollglblo 
provldod tlioy havo th riuallflcatlons 
rogardlng ncholarshlp as lald down In 
tho Whlto IJoolt of tho school.
On April 26 at 11:20 a. 111. the class 
of 25 of Carnegie Tech will cast aside 
their collegiate attire and don what is 
known to upper classmen the glad 
rags of Poverty Day.
There is 110 other event that enters 
the life of tile Plobo where he can 
show the true and real spirit of his 
class more than on Poverty Day. In 
previous years the Plebes showed up 
wonderfully and all turned out with 
their 'Original ebstumes. There was 
no limit to their imagination and or
iginality. They . represented any
thing from a typical tramp to Pecks 
Bad Boy, who went swimming during 
school hours and was forced to take 
shelter in a barrel.
Remember, all you classmates o 
215, that the Sophomores put their 
Poverty1 Day over and there is no 
reason why you cant beat theirs. 
Show that same spirit that you have 
shown throughout the year and everyono turn out for tills event. Dont be 
a slacker! You havo nothing to fear; 
ohly observe thoSo rules:
.1. All costumes, must be worn betwoen 11:20.a. 111. and 1:20 p. 111. only.
(a) Positively 110 costumos worn 
In any; classes.
(b) All oostumos must Indicate a 
state of poverty.
2. Freshmen I11 tho various schools 
will bo judged at tjholV respective 
school assemblies, which shall start 
at 11:80 sharp.
(a) A committee composed of 
throe upper classmen, appointed by 
the chairman of each assembly will 
soloot Freshmen who rocolvo tho 
groatoat amount of applause as they 
present thomblvc.ii> boforo the a.SHomhllos. A number of Plobos will bo 
oxomptod from oaeli of , tho four 
schools.
8. lOxomptlon slips will ho Issued
to nil who arc cncmptQil.
I. A parade of all Froshmoh will 
bo formed promptly at 12180 p. m. by 
tho Regulation Commltteos of each 
school, on Woodlawn nvonuo dlrootly 
In front of tho Collogo ol' Fine Arts, 
and will ho staged 011 the campus for 
not more than 20 minutes.
(a) Ploturoii of all Freshmen en
tering In tho eontost will bo taken at 
the close of tho parade.
(li) Pictures of all Froshmon ex
empted from regulations wlll also bo 
tali on .
Tho Regulations Committee wlll 
talco charge of all Plobos who do not 
show up for . Poverty Day.
Yes, you can bet your last barrel 
of Scotch that Carnegie Techs Song 
Book is going to be a reality IF the 
good work started during Easter va
cation is kept. up.
Some of the contributions are go
ing to work out nicely. But, as it 
takes several^songs to fill a book, be 
sure to keep them coming in.
The fact that the good old reliable 
Tech Spirit is beginning to work 011 
this much needed phase of our col
lege life is causing a great deal of 
satisfaction to all those interested in 
this means of glorifying Dear Old 
Tech.
Keep up the good work! Come on 
Margaret Morrison, Industries, Science 
and Arts. Now that the old barrel, 
is rolling, let each of us give it a 
kick!!
Address the results of your efforts 
to the Song Committee and place 
them In tho Central Building Post 
Office.
Slogan-Keep the barrel rolling.
SCALP AND BLADE TO
HOLD DANCE. SAT. EVE.
Saturday, April 20, Is tho date, so 
keep lb in rnind, and start to save 
your $1.25, then get the girl, tell her 
Hughes is going to furnish the mon
key music in tho Union from 8:80 to 
Sunday morning, and then be sure 
and get there to have the best time 
of your life. Every one is invited, 
and The Scalp and Blade Is anxious 
to see Couples from every school mak
ing the dance a real Four School af
fair.
STUDIO. FROLIC IS HELD BY
APPLIED ARTS STUDENTS
Last Saturday, -the Applied Arts 
Department, of Arts School, held Its 
first dance. "The Studio Frolic, In 
the Decoration Room. A good crowd 
attended \ and enjoyed dancing fo 
music by an All Star Trio. Novelties 
were 'passed out during intermission.
The Studilo Frolic" is the annual 
affair of the Applied Arts Departfont and next year will rival Myster
ious Night or the P. and I. Depart
ment.
The committee In charge consisted 
of C. Cooper, chairman; Mary Lowry, 
Francis Burrows, Walter Deter, Wil
liam Aheara, Kevin OCallahan and 
Vincent Roy.
President Hamerschlag 
Arrives in New York
Reaches America After Ten 
Day Voyage
Dr. Arthur A. Hamorachlag, Presi
dent of 'Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, and Mi's. Mamorachlng arriv
ed In Now York Saturday 011 the Res
olute of tho United American Line, 
after a throe months trip abroad. 
They loft Cherbourg 011 April 12.
Their tour fl.n>:.e the middle of 
January, Included places on the 
North Coast of Africa, .and in Eu
rope they visited Interesting parts 
of Italy and France. During the 
absence of Dr. Hamers-chlag, , Dr. 
rUhom:bfas S. Bailee r, Secretary at 
Tech, has been Acting President.
Dr. Hamerschlag will be back at 
Carnegie In time to attend Hie Com
mercial Engineering Convention next 
Monday and Tuesday.
Three Eminent Scientists Immersed in Suds;
Carnegie Institute Becomes a Super Launary
\
For some time past a great deal of 
research work has beon going on in 
the staid and sombre labs of our wor
thy professors but little have the sturents heard of the fruits of all these 
labors. But now the cat is out of the 
bag, so to peak, and we can see why 
all our profs were so anxious to get 
in the game.
A box of soap flakes labeled F A B 
yielded an interesting little booklet 
describing the research work of a 
few of our profs at Carnegie Tech 
and a few of the excerpts here and 
there give adequate proofs that tho 
flapper Is quite a back number when 
stacked up against some of our groar. 
researcher, For Instance, the book
let Is labeled, "Three Eminent Selontlatfl Immersed In SudsCarnoglo Inatituto Bocomes a Super-Laundry, 
So there Is little warning that If you 
see Homo chemist coming out of sci
ence building frothing from head to 
foot, dont get the wrong Impression; 
that Its one of the psychology profs 
Just coming out of a rage. It possi
bly only means that Dr. James or ono 
of his assistants is just returning 
from a hard day at the wash tub. 
The booklet say that the stuff was 
submitted and "three doctors of sci
ence rolled up their sleeves. Noth
ing amateurish about them. You see 
they' went at it right according to
J
Hoyle. Just think, too, with Carne
gie Tech a super-laundry all you have 
to do is Lake your soiled clothes into 
science and leave it in care of the 
Research Department and they'll be 
only to glad for the goods to experi
ment 011.
The Real1 Scandal,
Girls may be somewhat timid to 
take this course but let me quote 
a little further In the booklet and 
waylay your fears. "Having satisfied 
themselves concerning the theoretical 
superiority of FAB the sclent'fie in
vestigators at Carnogie Tech employ
ed It for washing silk stockings, lin
gerie,,fine blankets, fragile laces, and 
other FILMY THINGS. .fust what 
the last mentioned art'cles might ho 
In detail tho wrltor does not know 
but It certainly does show that thoso 
boys wont tho limit. Next Monday 
morning you might look what Is hang
ing on tho wash lino from scicnco 
building. Or you might waylay any 
member of tho chemistry department 
firm and be winning to go through 
frying across file campus hugging a 
precious little package, under his arm 
or you may have to search them 
because such things might easily fit 
In ones pocket.
j One Step Farther.
Do you think these boys stopped 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 26. 1922PAGE TWO
wkicli there -will be a social hourThe committee has arranged mattersand intend to throw a surprise on 
those present.
In due appreciation of the work, 
done by this committee all should 
come out for this meeting and so
cial. Members and non-members are 
welcome as room will be made for 
all. Remember the date. Bring your 
friends.
MENORAH SOCIETY HOLDS
MEETING THURSDAY, APRIL 27
On Thursday night, April 27, at 
8:15 p. m., the Menorah Society of 
Carnegie Tech will hold a regular 
meeting at the Rodef Shalom Tem
ple.
The committee promises to make 
the evening a very interesting one. 
Questions of importance will be dis
cussed throughout the evening, after
IND. STUDENTS AWARDED 
SCHOLARSHIPS LAST WED,M. M. C. NEWSROAMINS
MI6S HELEN BENNETT AT
M. M. A8SEMBLY
Six honor students at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology shared in a 
$300 scholarship and received their 
awards* at the Student Assembly, 
College of Industries, at noon Wed
nesday, April 19. The scholarship 
was recently established by the 
Pittsburgh Builders Exchange to be 
awarded each year to the student in 
the Department of Building Construc
tion on the basis of scholastic stand
ing, good character, and exceptional 
promises for success in the building 
construction industry. For this year, 
only, the scholarship was divided into 
six separate scholarships to be given 
to the six most deserving students 
selected by the faculty.
The following won: Seniors,
Stanley R. Kothe, Urichsville. Ohio, 
$100; Paul' J. Moore, Freeport, Pa.. 
$100; Juniors, Claude A. Burnell, 
Jamestown, N. Y., $25; William Ii. 
Douglas.s, Topeka, Kansas. $25; Ar
thur W. Hedgren, Omaha, Neb., $25; 
Stephen E. Novach, Bpffalo, N. Y., 
$25.
B. T. Riffle, President, of the Ex
change, made the presentations. Sec
retary E. M. Tate, member of the 
Board of Directors, of the Carnegie 
Tech Committee, and other members 
of Hie Exchange attended.
Another feature at the assembly 
was an address by Lawrence McDon
ald, a member of the staff of the 
Gazette Times.
Are you one of the crowd. Or Just 
a looker on. Have you done your 
beat. To lookryour worst. Or havnt 
you got the makin's. Poverty Day. 
Is a chance for the Plebe. To show a 
little spirit. You may feel foolish. 
Or think It silly. But If you get ups 
good. Youll remember it. To the long
est day you live. The giggle of the 
girl. Or the sinister smile. Of the 
worldly Senior. Is not all damning 
ridicule. But merely hides. Their ad
miration. And a great big wish. 
They were back in your shoes. Once' 
more. You're only a Plebe. Once in 
your life. So sliow your worth. And 
got Into the swim. Youre a darn fine 
follow. And you've got the makins. 
If you've done your best. To look your 
worst.
Editor-In-ChiefMiss Helen Bennett, Head of the 
Womens Collegiate Placement Bu
reau, spoke to the Margaret Morrison
and Design School girls at the Mar
garet Morrison Assembly Wednesday. 
She spoke of the reason that wom
en are considered a failure or "near 
failure in business. Girls do not 
go into buslnOK.", with the attitude of 
a professional business woman. She 
go;.", Into it with the idea of a "fill
in' between college and marriage 
and not as a life-work. Until girls
do go into any kind of a job with
the Interest which should accom
pany a "life-job," she will never 
succeed in the business world. She 
must be willing to grow with the 
linn and he willing to go through 
the process of growth. She must 
knowtlirougTi observation and study 
what is going on about her-in other 
departmentsbefore she can really 
be said to know her job.
Woman's real work in 'business 1 
to take into it the personal, human 
element. If sho oannot and does not 
do that she has not caught the 
value of womans place In business.
Miss Helen Bennett is widely 
known over the country. She places 
many college girls, the most success
ful women In the country. They are 
the most successful because Miss 
Helen Bennett, as their recommendor, hits for her first essential quali
ficationprofessional attitude.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLESTelephone, Hazel 0J8
Business ManagerWILLIAM R. MILLS 
VIC. H. STROMQTJ1S'
Telephone, Schonloy 2053-R 
Tolephono, Ililand 858
Managing Editor
Associate EditorHELEN V. LEWIS ..
Jj. J. WHITEHEAD .
EDWARD A. BRAND
Il 1?. SIMPSON......
ti. H. GUYTON.......
0. A. DICKMAN--
Telephone, Schenley 0070 
Tolephono, Schenley 0070, 
Tolephono,j Schenley 0070 
Telephone, Schenley 0070
Associate Editor
Nows Editor
Athletic Editor
. Photographor 
xchango Editor
6100 PENN AVENUEAdvertising Managerd. D. SONNEMANNTolophono. Schenloy 0211
Circulation Manager
Campus week is coming. And the 
strangers at Carnegie. Along with the 
Plebos. Are furnishing a little group. 
Who are thinkln' already. What a 
grand ol' time. They could have those 
days. AT HOME. Slackers we called 
them. In the days of the war. But the 
terms too mild. To employ right here. 
Youre not sonscrlpted. For manual 
labor. That will tire you for Weeks. 
Its a lot of fun. If you'll all pitch in. 
And do your bit. If you are only 
duckin to duck the work. Youre the 
laziest thing on earth. The rest of 
the show. Is the thing worth while. 
Worth more than twice. The work 
you do. Make a date. Stick around. 
Ask those who have seen them be
fore. For that week in May. Better 
stay. Your home is on the campus.
The Best Business Career
Is what every ambitious senior is 
thinking about at the pfesent time. 
Life insurance is one of the best, one 
of the most desirable, and one of the 
most satisfactory as a permanent 
calling.
In assets and volume of business, 
life insurance is one of the three lead
ing businesses of this country, yet the 
field is comparatively under-developed. 
Only 7 per cent of the economic value 
of human life in the United States is 
covered by insurance. This gives an 
idea of the big field still to be worked, 
especially business insurance for firms 
and corporations.
As to remuneration: Reports of 
college graduates who have entered 
business indicate that life insurance is 
at the very top as a source of income. 
Now is the time for you to consider 
what you are going to do after gradu
ation. If you are ambitious and will
ing to work hard and are interested 
to know about life insurance, address
MRS. VERMORKEN ENTERTAINS
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF 
CAMPUS IS ANNOUNCED
ARCHITECTS WIN MEDALS
AT NEW YORK JUDGMENT
The members of Short Story Class 
will be the guests of Mrs. Vennorken on Friday) afternoon.
The Seniors of the Architectural 
Department came out fairly good at 
the last judgment on a Municipal 
Auditorium.
Three men of Carnegie Tech were 
awarded second medals. They were: 
E. W. Klee, Chas. Sorber and C. F. 
Hunt. The rest of the men with one 
exception, were awarded a mention. 
There was only' one zero given to a 
Tech man.
The Class B men of the department 
took an Esquisse for A Constabulary 
Post, while the Sophomores took an 
Esquisse for an Entrance to an 
Arsenal.
Karl Weks was awarded a third 
medal on the Class A Esftuisse-Es^- 
quesse.
William Burke received a mention 
in the Spiering prize competition.
Y. W. C. A. ENTERTAINS IN
M. M. C. RECEPTION HALL
Now, as the campus is filled witli 
the talk of tho new gym and swim
ming pool comes the thought of how 
will the campus appear when all 
plans are finished.
At the entrance to the campus at 
Forbes and Beeler, will be a large 
oval shaped stadium, having dormitor
ies around tho top. The field will 
be equipped for football and track, 
with a straight way of 220 yards. 
Going down along Beeler and the 
oval, the M. M. College will be 
reached. This building will have an 
entrance on both avenges and the 
front will face a sunken garden and 
an outdoor theater. The future 
building will double the size of 
the College .of Women. Continuing, 
on . Morewood, will be a group of 
buildings for a Teachers College.
Upon turning towards the larger 
group of the old buildings, the first 
one to be seen will be an Administra
tion Building lor the College of En 
gineering, similar to the present Cen
tral Building in Industries group. 
This building will be devoted to de
partmental offices, directors offices 
and such. Two units will be erected 
beyond the present two units of the 
College of Engineering, and beyond 
this Is to be a tower similar to the 
Lower at tho Machinery Hall at the 
end of tho College of Industries. 
With the adding of . one story to the 
wing of the new building of the Colloge of Industries and devoting tho 
Central Building to Administration 
of College of Industries, the quadranglo will bo complete.
Tho Administration Building of tho 
Four Schools will bo in a campanile 
directly across from the present 
Central Building, and 01/ tho site of 
Langly Laboratory, which will be 
torn down In. duo time. The building 
will lm.vo a, base .oif 00 foot by 00 
foot, and will take care of the offices 
of tho Four Schools, tho Commons. 
Library, Faculty Club Rooms and 
such. ,
Going towards tho College of Fine 
Art and remaining on tho park side 
will ho tho proposed addition to tills 
college, which is to bo a U shaped 
building with a patio towards 
Schenley Park. This building will be 
connected to the original building by 
a bridge. Tho proposed addition will 
take care of the students in the De
partment of Music, Applied Arts and 
Painting and illustration. The origin
al building will have the Department 
of Drama and Department of Arch
itecture.
Between the proposed building and 
the new gym will be built a concert 
hall to seat about 1,000.
Going down Woodlawn avenue to
wards Forbes street, the dorms are 
reached, the dornis will be as they 
are now, except for the addition of 
one new building, similar in design 
to Scobell and placed in front of 
Scobel. This completes the proposed 
future development of Carnegie Tech.
On Wednesday afternoon in the 
Roc. Hall the Y. W. entertained the 
Y. W.s of Pltti and P. C. W. at tea. 
The afternoon was most enjoyably 
spent. Miss Bauman and Jean 
Ealcln, acting as leaders in several 
novel games. After everyone had 
had her cleverness tested by these 
two "ring leaders, the committee, 
under Anne I-Ieber, served tea. These' 
teas prove a good get-together means 
for tilie three collegiate Y. W.s.
Tho regular Y. W. meeting this 
week will ho In charge of the Sopho
mores. Everyone should come out 
and tiy to make her classi meeting 
a success.
VITA CLUB REORGAN
IZESELECTS OFFICER!
MRS. ISABELLA BRANDOW 
WILL SPEAK WEDNESDAY
IN ARTS SCHOOLThe Vita Club has been reorgan
ized. This organization consists of 
students of the automobile engineer
ing course.. At a recent meeting tlie 
following officerei were elected:. H. 
P. Wharton, president; Carl II oste tter, vice president; Tom Carmody, 
secretary, and Carl Carlson, treas
urer.
Meetings! will be held every Mon
day afternoon at their headquarters,
Mrs. Isabella Brandow, Director of 
.Personnel.' of the Lord and Taylor 
Store/ Now York'City, will give an 
addressi Wodiiiisday evening. April 26, 
in Room No. 102, Colltsge of Flue 
Arte, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. The mooting will he for 
momborn of tho Co-operative Re
search Bureau at Tech, and of tho 
iitnils of the co-oiporntivo stores In 
Pittsburgh -connected with the bu
reau.
Mrs. Brandow will discuss tho co
ordination of various pliasos of porsonnol work In department stores, 
such as tho electing, placing, train
ing and supervising of employes.
INTERESTING HAPPENINGS
IN DEPTS. OF IND.
Agency Department
VACATION OPPORTUNITY 
We want a few live men over 24 
for Summer Work, presenting to 
Teachers and School Boards new Edu
cational Publication, approved by 
Pennsylvania State Department of 
Education. Accepted applicants train
ed and financed. See
QUARRIE & COMPANY 
Lyceum Building 'Pittsburgh
bbtVO eLgt.XLaO IN30XLCA
of Boston, Massachusetts 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
Calendar of Student Events
Mr, Oakley, asHlHtant to Acting Di
rector Morrl of tho College of Itidu.stri(Mi, lias loft bin work at Carnogio 
Tooh to talco up an outside position. 
Ulf<i work an assistant will bo han
dled by A I. Wol rman and C. .1. John
son, both students In Industries
Tho la,tost addition to tho most 
modern and interesting equipment In 
the Department of Forging and Ileat 
Treatment 1st a, Cadillac* blower, man
ufacturer by tho Clements Manufac
turing Company of Chicago. Mr. 
Taglo, with an bye for business, has 
procured tills blower without cost 
to the Institution and is using the 
blower as a demonstration on one of 
the heat-treating furnaces.
The Senior Class of the Depart
ment of Building Erection and Es
timating made an inspection trip to 
Youngstown, Friday, April 7, to inspecti the proces's of manufacturing 
various fire proofing materials used 
in construction, and to see construc
tion work taking place in Youngs
town. The trip was under the su
pervision of Professor Dunnells. the 
Head of the Department.T
HOUSANDS of smokers have proved itand now give the verdict 
to you  Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced  none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes
None has the delicious 
FLAVOR of the finest Turkish 
Sjffc None gives the ENJOYMENT of the finest Turkish 
l|j| None will SATISFY you as 
| Pf will the finest Turkish
None but the highest grade 
wj and personally selected 
f If Turkish tobaccos is used in 
| m MURAD.
I 11 T o enj oy 100% pure T urkish
|S| at its VERY BESTto reach 
| I J the PEAK of Cigarette Quality.
you have but to smoke 
V/Jm MURAD
Try MURAD today and 
Judge for
Yourself!
W I'll )N MSI) AY, A PHI I R EG
BuHotoall Swni'l.limoio ALS Carnegio................................................ There
Drama .King *lulm................................................8:1.5, Little Theater
THURSDAY, AI MM L 27
liiiHc'ball Delaware AHT Carnegie.................................................... There
Founder L Day........................................................3:00 p. in,, Music. .Hall
FRIDAY, AJ.Ml.IIi 28
DanceNon-Degree Club.............................................8:80, Langley bal).
Tennis -Lehigh vs. Carnegio .............................................................. Here
.Drama King John1'.................................................8:15, Little Theater
SATURDAY, APRIL 29
Track- Penn Relays ....................................................................................................... There
BaseballNavy vs. Carnegio............................................................ There
Dunce-Scalp and Blade.............................................................8:30, Union
DramaKing John...............................................8:15, Little Theater
MONDAY, MAY 1
Commercial Engineering Convention ................................................ Here
TUESDAY, MAY 2
Conference on Commercial Engineering..............................................Here
DramaKing John..............................................8:15, Little Theater
THURSDAY, MAY 4
BaseballCarnegie vs. Bucknell ........................................................ Here
FRIDAY", MAY 5
TennisW. & J. vs. Carnegie............................~.................................Here
Concert........................................................................Womans Glee Club
DanceQuaker Ball................................................................... 8:30, Union
Debate.......................................................i..................W. & J. vs. Carnegie
SATURDAY, MAY 
TrackInterscholastic Meet..................................................Schenley Oval
FRIDAY, MAY 12 
DanceSoph Hop.......................................................William Penn Hotel
fSiSMSMSMSMSMSJSMSJSJSMS/SMSiSMS/SISIUSJSMSJSiS/SMSJBMSMSMSMSJSMSifiJSMSJ
| Oakland Community House I
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Chess or checkers. 
Pool Tournament.
.Latest magazines. jj
Study room. 
Play and sing.
Club, i'vnt or committee meetings, 
r|  Just visit.
SUNDAYS
I Bible Study Classes............................,10:00 A.M. [||
& Quiet ................................... Sunday afternoon j
| Friends, fellowship, refreshments, and a helpful
young peoples meeting............5:30-7:30 P. M. I
Information and friendly help any time. j|
 Oakland Methodist Church and
I Community House
I FORBES AND BOQUET STREETS I
DESIGN PLEBES HOLD ANNUAL 
BANQUET AT GLENOVER
/'vt'L StO/K OWNED BY .LORvLL'RD /O.
Future Planning For Carnegie Institute of Tech

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE TH,REE
PLAID ATHLETICS
PLAID BREAKS EVEN 
AT WEST VIRGINIA
Score, Carnegie 5, W. Va. 4; 
W. Va. 8. Tech 3
The Carnegie Tecli baseuall team
divided the spoils of victory with
West Virginia University last Friday 
and Saturday. The first game
was played on a wet field with the 
temperature close to freezing ipoint, 
and was won, through a ninth inning 
rally, by the Skibos. The final
score was 5 to 4. The Mountaineers 
won Saturdays game by the score 
of 8 to 3.
Just when it looked if the West 
Virginians had sewed up the game 
Friday, Carnegie Tech came to life, 
and by mixing a few timely' blows 
with two batters on the part of Rod
gers men, staged a three-run rally 
which gave them the game.
Even with the score one run 
against i them, the Mountaineers 
again threatened sttongly in their 
half of the ninth. Smith started off 
by walking Hopke. Barnard was 
sent in to run for him and Russ 
Wright went to the plate to sacrifice. 
His best efforts resulted in a 
little pap) fly into Irwins hands, 
who quickly doubled Barnard at first. 
Evans hit a single to left, but Turkovlchs easy bounder to Smith ended 
the game.
The play which brought victory to 
Carnegie Tech was started by Irwin, 
who hit a single to short. McCaw 
lifted a Texas leaguer into right; 
which bounded by Lytle, scoring Ir
win and leaving McCaw on third. 
Cappe hit a fly to deep center be
yond Harrick which went for three 
liases. J. Doherty squeezed Cappe 
across with the winning run. Smith 
and J. Doherty were thrown out, and 
R. Doherty lifted to Wielc, ending 
the spas'm.
Evans pitching was slightly su
perior to Smiths, but the latter received far better support from his 
mates. Cappe was Techs slugging 
star, making two singles and a triple 
in three times up. Homer Martin of 
the Mountaineers, had a big day with 
four hits in four times at bat.
The second game was not so suc
cessful from a Carnegie point of 
view. It looked at first as though 
Cappe and Woods were going to 
stage a pitchers battle. But the 
keenness of the weather seemed to 
act as a tonia on the West Virgin
ians, and they frequently bunched 
hits, while Woods kept the Tartans 
binglesi well scattered.
Superior batting on the part of the 
Mountaineers was the cause of the 
Plaids downfall. They had their 
batting eyes peeled and would not 
be denied. Tho slugging reached its 
climax in the fifth when the. Gold 
and Blue, with two runs already
across, produced three more, Turkovitch, Weik and Martin crossing the 
plate. "Turk started the slaughter 
by hitting safe, going to second on 
Harricks sacrifice. Weik singled 
and, Turkovitch advanced to third. 
He and Weik then came in on Mar
tins three-bagger. Mayfield hit safe, 
scoring Martin. Mayfield stole- sec
ond and Lytle flied out to left field. 
Hoppe was caught at second, ending 
the riot. One more run was obtained 
in the sixth and two in the eighth.
Mills and Cappe brought in Techs 
first two runs, in the fourth and fifth 
innings, respectively. The first was 
put over through safeties* by Mills 
and Godden and sacrifices by Invin 
and MCCaw. <. Cappe led the fifth, 
with a single, then stole second. J. 
Doherty was out from pitcher to 
first, but his brother produced a sin
gle and stole second, Cappe crossing 
the plate. Durkin flied to left, and 
Mills was hit iby a pitched ball. The 
side was then retired on Goddens zy 
to third.
The Skibos final run resulted from 
a single by J. Doherty and Durkins 
double.
The Skibos have no alibis to offer. 
The Morgantown institution simply 
had a harder hitting team on the 
field and bunched their hits effective
ly. Martin had another perfect day 
at bat, while Wright made it three 
out of four, one hit going for a triple. 
Ray Dotherty and Godden for. the 
Tartans, each made1 three safe bingles.
The most spectacular play of the 
game was McCaws running catch 
of Wood's long fly in the fourth.
The spectators were entertained be
fore the game by the Fi Bater Cap
pers, who turned their long starved 
goat loose on three initiates. The 
Fi Bater Cappers aim to promote 
school spirit at the University. The 
score:
FIRST GAME 
Carnegie Tech... 0 1 '0 0 0 1 0 0 35 
West Virginia ..12000 1 00 04
Two-base hitHoppe. Three-base 
hitsTurkovitch, McCaw, Cappe. 
Stolen basesLytle, Godden 2, M'o 
Caw, Cappe. Sacrifice hitsHarrick; 
Mayfield. Hophe. J. Doherty, Godden. 
Left on basesC. I. T., 6; W. Va., 
6. Bases on ballsOff Smith, 1; off 
Evans, 2. Struck outBy Smith, 2; 
'by Evans, 7. Hit) by pitched ball 
Lytle. Time1:45. UmpireJohn
ston.
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
BENCHWARMER SAYS:
That squeeze play in the ninth inning was a "beaut"and it won the 
game! Cappe was on third when Joe Doherty bunted down tho third-base 
line; Cappe rushing home with plenty of time. It was the prettiest play of 
the game. 
West Virginia made a game rally in the ninth, too, but it fell short. 
With a man on first, Wright attempted to sacrifice, but instead popped up in 
front of the plate. Al caught it, aud shot to first for a double killing. It 
saved the game.
Cappe hit the bill hardthree hitsono of them a triple, which helped 
pave the way for victory.
Godden did some good fielding in the first gamenot so good in the 
second. But he got three of Techs ten hits.
Cappe pitched a good game, but fielders threw it away with seven errors. 
Skinny McCaw made a wonderful catch. So did Joe Mills.
Joe Doherty played a good game at short in both games.
The fielding as a whole in the first game was goodno errors.
Probably will have three cripples this weekJoe Mills got a blow on 
his le&Durkin was hit on his throwing armRed Goddeus ankle is still 
weak.
Skinny and Red went to a danceFREE.
A MORGANTOWN NEWSPAPER SAYS:
The Techites have by far the best team they have ever sent to tho 
local field. They are aggressive players, alert for every opportunity, and 
run bases with considerable smartness. With all due respect o our old 
friend, J. Honus Wagner, his successor in the coaching job appears to be 
a much more practical college coach. Big leaguers usually presume too much 
on the part of their players. Techs team is well grounded in the funda
mentals of attack and defense and their playing is just about as cleancut as 
the appearance of the men making up the team.
Dick Evans seldom shows more stuff in a ball game than he had yes
terday against the Skibos. (No so worse, eh?)
ON MAY 6TH
Carnegie Techs Sixth Annual Inter-Scholastic meet will take place May 
6tli. Twenty-five schools have entered. This meet has always been the lar
gest of its kind in the Tri-State district, and from advance notices promises 
to outstrip all previous ones this year.
This meet is an opportunity for our school. Hundreds of scholastic track 
stars will gather in the Schenley Oval, upon invitation of Carnegie Tech. 
Each one of them will be favorably or unfavorably impressed, depending 
upon our attitude. Among these men, there will be a large number who will 
eventually choose Carnegie Tech as their Alma Mater. We students can 
make that number large or smallaccording to our treatment of them. So, 
it is our duty to entertain, and entertain the best we can. When these 
athletes leave Pittsburgh let them take back a good opinion of Carnegie 
Tech SPIRIT and HOSPITALITY. We can do this by attending en masse 
this meet and by being present at the big smoker in the Union that evening.
So, remember the datemake no other for the afternoon and evening 
of MAY 6TH.
PLAID CINDER MEN 
IN PENN RELAYS
Kelly and Others Will Com
pete in Special 
Event
SECOND GAME 
Carnegie Tcoh...O 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 03 
West Virginia...0 0 1 1 3 1 0 2 *8 
Two-base hitsWright, Turkovitch. 
Three-base hitsMartin,  Wright,
Turkov'tch. Stolen basesMartin,
R. Doherty, Godden. Base on balls 
Off Cappe, 2; off Woods, 1. Struck 
outBy Cappe, 6; by Woods, G. Hit 
, by ip/itcherBy Cappe 2 (Weik. Turkovitcvh); by Woods 1 (Mills.) Dou1- 
| ble playsWeiff to Hoppe, Mayfield 
to Wright.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY ?
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year. V
BELL PHONE X
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
SKIBO INN |
ARemodeled and
Enlarged 
CLEAN, |
WHOLESOME X
jIIn
XServed at best prices -jCIGARS CANDY 
MISS OLEARY
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
Ladles and Mens Clothes. 
Call Schenley 389.
3933 FORBES STREET
H A R R V  S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
When II2O Isnt Water
/GENTLEMEN said the.Chem. Prof., at 
the end of the term, Youll probably 
remember only one thing of all Ive tried 
to teach you. And that is that Water is H2O 
and then youll be wrong.
Even shaving soap isnt always shaving 
soap. A correct shaving preparation like 
Williams Shaving Cream must do a lot 
more than simply make a lather.
It must be generous with its lather. It must be 
thick and creamy in cold water or hot.
It must hold its moisture. Williams will not 
freeze dry on your face.
It must soften your 
beard right down to the 
very roots.
It must prepare your 
face for quick, gentle 
shaving. Williams is 
so pure and' whole
some that it actually
helps the most tender 1 A Try it,  / J tomorrow beforeSkill. ' AL chapel.
Wijliams
Shaving Cream
Remember the TENNIS match with Lehigh Friday afternoon! 
body out!
EveryAll students get ready for the Pentathelon!
Hereafter admission of two bits will be charged for all games played 
on the Carnegie Tech ball diamond. The practice usually followed on "sandlot diamonds will be used. Tags will be sold to all spectators for twentyfive cents, or student tickets. If you appear without your student tickets, 
it will cost you real money, so, be sure and drag along that student tickot, 
and avoid additional cost.
This is a warning._______________________________
THREE TARTAN TEAMS TO 
BE IN ACTION THIS WEEK
Athletically, this week is a big 
week at Carnegie Teoh. The wear
ers of the Plaid will be seen in ac
tion in all the spring sports of the 
school, in baseball, tennis and track.
The baseball team invades the 
East for three games. Swarthmore Is 
the first stop. The Tartans know lit
tle of the strength of this opponent 
for the season is yet too young for 
comparative scores. However, it is 
encouraging to see that Saturday, 
Swarthmore was walloped by Lafay
ette 8 to 1. Thursday the team plays 
Delaware University and Friday the 
Navy is to be met at Annapolis. This 
will be a supreme test for tho Plaid 
nine and if successful Carnegie Tech 
can boast of a great baseball team.
The tennis team opens the soason 
with a match with Lehigh on the Tar
tan courts. In spite of tho poor weath
er the varsity have succeeded in get
ting considerable practice. Who will 
represent tho Plaid in the offcner is 
yet undecided. The three varsity 
men of last year, Captain Neville, 
Kell, and Swartz, have their places 
securely held, but the fourth man is 
still in doubt. Coaqh Colonel Brooks 
has about twenty men from whom to 
pick the lucky boy. However the 
strongest possible combination must 
be put on the courts to win over Le
high. Lehigh has been going strong 
this season, and has an advantage 
over the Plaid in that it has already 
played, and won, two matches. Both 
Rutgers and Morovan were walloped 
6 to 0, which speaks much for the 
strength of Lehigh.
Campos Week
IS COMING
DATES MAY ?5,20 27 
PLAN TO COME
THE SOPH HOP PRELIM.
TICKETS ARE ON SALE
(Continued From Page One.) 
Make all arrangement to be there. 
Watch for posters for information 
about the special cars.
The dance will cost $2.50. Pre
lims" are on sale under the direc
tion of Miss Helen Johnson in Arts; 
Miss Margaret Coombs, in Margaret 
Morrison; Hank Himes, in Industry,
PUBLIC VISITS SCHOOL
FRI.ALL DEPTS. BUSY
(Continued From Fago One.) 
College had exhibits in weaving, type
writing, potteryi millinery, costunre de
signing, and household economics. 
The Department of Social Work gave 
demonstrations of community activi
ties, and the Physical Education De
partment furnished dancing, exercises, 
and games by way of diversion.
The Miners In the Science Build
ing gave rides to tho visitors on an 
electric Storage battery mino locomo
tive into the mino and down tho hill
side. The Assaying, Eloctrlc1 Furnace, 
any Hydraulic Laboratories attracted 
many by their glowing furnacos and 
industrial .apparatus.
Tho Chemical Department ran a 
moving picture, From Oro to No
tional Tube," and all tho chemical 
laboratories wore on exhibition. Tho 
Physics Department displayed Its 
sciontiilc apparatus in tho many Phys
ics laboratories. Heat, light and eloc 
tribal experiments woro conducted, 
high frequency displays and X-rays 
Interesting many.
In Machinery Hall a Radio Concert 
and high-tension experiments woro 
carried on, Insulators being tostod by 
subjecting them to strains attaining 
200,000 volts. The operation of rec
tifiers, generators, and motors wau 
demonstrated in tho Dynamo Labor 
atory, while a large exhibit of radio 
apparatus was furnished with the aid 
of the R. O. T. C. and various stu
dents who lent their own equipment. 
The Mechanical Laboratories oper
ated all their machines, and demon
strations were conducted in the Ma
terials Testing Laboratory.
The large cupola in the foundry of 
the College of Industries was in oper
ation, many castings being made. 
Forgings ,wpre turned out in Forge 
Shop, while various milling, turning, 
boring and planing operations were 
carried on in Machine Shop. The 
Electrical, Sheet Metal, and Printing 
Shops had very interesting exhibits, 
the entire Industries Building being 
invaded by visitors.
The exhibits were of so wide and. 
varied a character that they did not be 
come monotonous. Very few people 
left until they were forced to, the ex
hibit being a great success and giv
ing the people of Pittsburgh a broad
er and better understanding of the 
work and 'potentialities of Carnegie 
Tech.
On next -Saturday the cream of 
Carnegio Techs track and squad will 
represent tho plaid in the annual 
Penn Relays at Philadelphia. The 
Tartan relay team of last year made 
a good showing in tho Class, B one 
mile College Relay. They were placed 
third in tho event which was so close
ly run that it was dill cult for the 
judge to decide the places. This year a 
new class has been established which 
takes only technical colleges, such as 
Boston Tech, Georgia Tech, Virginia 
Polyteclinical Institute and Stevens 
Institute. It is in this class that the 
Tech quartet is entered. The Compe
tition will be keener than in the form
er class and the Skibo runners will 
have to show some real form to win 
the event.
Three men, Szold, Brumbaugh and 
Qare, have already been picked by 
Coach Iddings and tho fourth man 
and the alternates will be picked in 
trials this week frohi the following 
men: Lockwood, Gotham, Cross,
Blesch arid White. The drawings for 
positions have been made and the 
Tartans have the fifth place from the 
pole. Coach Iddings also expects to 
enter Kelly and possibly Lockwood 
in the special 100 yard event. Both 
Kelly and Lockwood are fast stop| pers and should give tho other sprint
ers an opportunity to open up, and 
show their wares. There is a possi
bility that Sprinkles iriay be entorod 
in the haminor, throw. Ho has boon 
throwing the weight around 120 feot 
but will have to do somewhat bottor 
than that to qualify for tho ovont. 
Tho Plaid .nufy bo represented in tho 
international two-milo run by Dykoman who is a distance man of consid
erable merit. However, entrance in 
this event is very doubtful.
With tho relay team placod in a 
now and bottor class and with mon 
entered in other track and field ovonts, 
Carnegio Toch will have an opportu
nity to make a name for itself, at tho 
Penn Rolays this year.
A now typo of exam recently in
stituted at Columbia University has 
beon mercilessly, mentally slaughter
ing tho old bagaboo of thb College
Prof------tho bluffer. Having beon
deprived of has bane, tho ossay tyipo 
of examination, this shiftless gontloman can no longer splatter pago af
ter page, all tho time evading tho 
question. Now it is .definitely YES 
or NO! Furthermore, the bluffer
must confino his overbubbling tenden
cy to discuss tho question by using 
old cheeks or crosses.
Two thousand of the 7,000 sludonts 
at the University of Wisconsin go to 
bod at 10:30 p. m.; 200 at 11 oclock; 
100 at 12 oclock, and tho most of tho 
remaining 1,-iOO at 1 a. mM was tho in
formation divulged by a special quiz 
held at that university recently.
GET OUT!
of your heavy underwear
GET IN!
to a
COOPERS Union Suit
Spring and Summer weights. We are exclusive Oakland Agents.Davies & Hughes
DEPENDABLE
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES Phono Schenley 5468 M. Next to Strand Theater.
The baseball team of the University 
of- Indiana has accepted the invitation 
recently received by them from Waseda University at Tokio. Twelve 
games will be played at Tokio with 
the Japanese team.
and Johnson, in Science. Buy your 
prelims early and' help the com
mittee to give you the beat hop pos
sible.
Golf and 
Sport Oxfords
Approved styles by experi
enced golfers and every golf 
er knows that his shoes are 
a might important part of his 
equipment.
Style No. 6040  Smoked 
Horse, Tan Trimmed, 
bre Soles. Rubber
tnoked ita
ugiu
Style No. 6041Tan Calf,( 
Mahogany Saddle, Duilex' 
Soles, Rubber Heels..........1
Weve Fitted Feet For Fifty Years
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWNEAST LIBERTY
How aggravating It la to have a 
fountalh pen on mechanical pone 
balk Just when you are ready to Jot 
down a brilliant thought. Tell your 
troubles to Singer Pen & Gift 'Shop 
In Jenkins Arcade. Adv.
You Appreciate the 
Wisdom of Maintaining 
An Open Mind
Life Insurance lias been kind to those men and wom
en, who refused to bury their heads in tho sand the 
minute the subject was mentioned.
This country is honeycombed with keen men of large 
vision, and monstrous ambition who are riding the 
waves of success', because they Investigated for 
themselves the possibilities of Life Insurance sell
ing, and acted upon the result of those investiga
tions.
'Plie Edward 'A. Woods Company of Pittsburgh, Pa., 
the largest Life Insurance Agency in the world, 
seeks opportunity to 'ay before the judgment of col
lege men and women, the present and potential op
portunities of Life Insurance Salesmanship as a 
career.
The Edward A. Woods Co.
General Agents
IJlie Equitable Life Assurance Society, 
of the United States
Erick Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
B. K. Elliott Company
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Drawing Materials and Surveying Instruments, Blue Print Papers 
Artists Materials, Optical Goods.
Photographic Supplies and Cameras.
Highest grade developing and printing.
126 SIXTH STREET (Opposite Alvin Theater)
and Cloths,
PITTSBURGH
fecrimination?
Who can discriminate more 
carefully than the college 
man? To his natural equip
ment arc added the resources 
of culture and the associa
tion with great minds of all 
ages. Such discrimination 
leads naturally to the choice 
of Melachrino, the One Ciga
rette Sold the World Over.
Remember that Melachrino is a master 
blend of the finest Turkish Tobaccos 
as originated by Miltiades Melachrino. 
Egyptian cigarettes are simply those 
that originated in Egypt. Hut the to
bacco is what you want to know about 
 and If its Melachrino  its right
eThe One Cigarette Sold the World.Over

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 1922
REGULATING YOUR
Every big corporation so 
regulates its operating ex
penses as to give a profit.
The same regulation ap
plied to your income will 
leave a surplus each month 
which we shall be glad to in
vest for you, be it small or 
big.
Dancing
Every Saturday, 9 P. M. 
THE 
RITTENHOUSE
1 Giles.   Couple, $2.20.
Direction 
The Sextons
ALUMNI PAGE
THREE EMINENT SCIENTISTS IN 
SUDS. CARNEGIE I 
BECAME A SUPER LAUNDRY.
(Continued From Pago Ono.-j 
here? Not a bit of Jt. Heros .tho 
next' sentence--'"Observation through 
powerful magnifying lenses establish
ed tho fact that blankets, sllg stock; 
ings, babies, Indorsiiirts, laces and 
lingerie (jurft couldnt leave them out 
of tho test) washed many times Jn 
FAB suds woro free from otc. Im
agine such goings on among the pro
fessors of our staid and sombre.''instltutlon. You can see tho reason 
now why all those men have been so 
anxious to get a chance at those re
searches.
In all true seriousness though, lot 
Ili be said that all connected with tho 
Institution aro glad to soo real Pub
licity given to tho work, however fas
tidious tho naturo of Its presentation. 
We aro all glad to soo "Dr. Bingham 
cdimo.ctod with tho Edison work and 
this second ploco of publicity Is equal
ly as welcome. Lot's hope the work 
continuos.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTI8ER8
THE finishing 
touch for that 
new Spring suita 
smart Bat-wing tie 
of English Twill. 
Unusual designs 
and striking colour 
effects
All Genuine Cheney Cravats ha'tm 
the name stamped in the neckband
SOLD BY
C. A. HEIMERT, 3614 Forbes Street 
CHAS. OCH, 3605 Forbes Street
STATE ALUlWNI AND 
PGM. CLAN MEET
First of Series of Joint Meet
ings. Mr. G. H. Deike and 
J. A. Leete Speak
A. joint alumni luncheon 'Penn 
Stato and Carnegie Tech hold in tho 
Fort Pitt last Saturday afternoon 
proved a great success. Thc*ro woro 
approximately two Hundred In at
tendance, which was about evenly di
vided betwoen tho two schools. Mr. 
G. II. Dclko, prosldent of 'State Col
lege Alumni In Pittsburgh, acted as 
toast-master. After an appropriate 
talk he lnlroducod the speaker of tho 
day, Mr. J. A. Leeto, librarian of Car
negie Insttiute. Mr. Leete gave a 
very aproprlate talk In regard to the 
two institutions and the good that 
'they are doing. Having been con
nected with the Staff of State Col
lege for eleven years and afterwards 
at Carnegie Tech for eleven years lie 
gave a brief outline of State and Tecli 
In their earlier days. It was truly a 
talk of wit and eloquence. Mr. Affelder was called upon , to talk, he 
spoke of the educational value of 
State and Tech and explained his in
terest in the two schools'because of 
his present connection as Chairman 
of the Advisory Board on Mining En
gineering at Stato and also Chairman 
of the Committee on Mining Engin
eering at Tech. Dr. Baker was then 
called upon and gave a very lino 
talk emphasizing the good spirit that 
existed- at the meeting and heartily 
urged that such good spirit continue 
to exist. The Collegiate1 Six Orches
tra at Tech furnished tho music. This 
completed the program for the day 
and the party was unamimous in their 
feeling of the success of this, the 
first attempted joint, meeting. It is 
hoped that such a get-together will 
be held each year and that tills party 
will be the means of having more 
inter-collegiate alumnf get-togethers 
in Western Pennsylvania;
THE FATE, OTH ARKY-TECHS
Alumni of tlie Department of 
I Archltectuire are roquested to' atteiul 
Ilio party and dance, to ho ield In 
' tlio Department on Aprii 28. .
DAYTON, CLAN
The last meeting of the Dayton 
Clan was held Monday evening, April 
1.0, in the Engineers Club. It was a 
joint mooting of students and alumni 
and proved to be a very successful af
fair. There wore many talks by stu
dents and alumni. Such questions as 
scholarship and school publications 
woro discussed. The Clan decided 
that during the summer months they 
would hold dances In the Old Barn 
Club near Dayton. This is believed 
to be a good thing sb that the mem
bers may be kept In close contact 
during the summer. The next meet
ing of the Clan will be held on May 15.
DETROIT CLAN
A letter just received from W. R. 
Williams,4 president of the Detroit 
Clan gives a good account of what 
this Clan has been doing in the past 
few months. Several meetings have
been held since Xmas and much in
terest has been manifested at these 
affair. The last meeting was held 
on Aipril .12 at which time twelve 
Tech men attended. The next meet
ing will be held about the middle of 
May with 'a view of getting some en
thusiasm aroused toward a formal.or
ganization of a real Clan in Detroit.
WASHINGTON CLAN
On Monday evening, April 10, tweney Clan members went on a tour of 
inspection to the Chesapeake & Po
tomac Building. The company fur
nished two guides who took the mem
bers through the building dnd ex
plained thoroughly how the system 
works. Bill Norman, president, made 
all arrangements for this party. Two 
new men were initiated into the Clan, 
Mark Malanphy and Thomas OKeefe, 
both of whom are connected in Re
search Work at the Bureau of Stand
ards. The next meeting of the Clan 
will be held in the near future.
INTER-NIGHT SCHOOL DANCE 
TO BE HELD FRIDAY EVENING
(Continued From Page One.) 
ScienceMr J. W. Schofield, treas
urer.
ArtsMiss R. F. Bruce, secretary. 
ScienceMr. W- J. -MqKee.>
ArtsMr. S. K. Eastwood.
ScienceMr. W. J. JVTdKee. 
IndustriesMr. J. A. Irwin. 
IndustriesMr. II. T. Koofits.
GRAPHICA CLUB COMPLETES 
EXTENSIVE INSPECTION TOUR
(Continued From Pag9 One.) 
otype Company, Sinclair & Valentine 
Coriipany, - Bartlett Orr Press; also 
the Wm. E. Rudge plant at Mt. Ver
non and the American Type Founders 
Company, at Jersey City.
Thursday morning found the print
ers in Philadelphia. Here they were 
entertained by the Curtis Publishing 
Company, the Lanston Monotype 
Company, the Dill & Collins Paper 
Mills ajid the Royal Electrotype Com-: 
pany. This concluded the inspection 
tour and most of the participants re
turned to Pittsburgh Saturday, satis
fied that this had been-the most suc
cessful trip ever taken by the club.
Harry Phillips Davis
Those UCFs6 have given their lives and their 
hearts to the service of the electrical art have 
early learned that success with larger tilings is 
assembled out of devoted care to the lesser de
tails. Indeed, they will go further, and demon
strate that the little achievements of today are 
the fundamentals that become the big things of 
tomorrow. Just as Willie Iloppe, the great 
billiardist, will tell you that there is no such 
thing as an easy shot in billiards, so electrical 
specialists have found that frequently the seem
ingly big conceptions have depended on the per
fection of details that those unfamiliar with 
electrical history would often mistakenly regard 
is unimportant.
Thus the growth of Wcstinghouse, and of the 
great industry of which it is a part, has been 
compounded of many ingredients; of vision that 
saw present needs and future requirements, of 
engineering genius that could bring forth prac
ticable designs to fill them, of courage that never 
failed to try once more, of enthusiasm, and in
tegrity, and faithfulness to the little and the 
little-known jobs as well as to those that were 
bigger and more pretentious. Wcstinghouse lias 
always had a, incod, and a welcome, for men who 
could supply such qualities.
It is the daily expression of quali ties^ pee these 
that earns a man the regard, as wcill ajs the re
spect, of those who work with |iim.
Perhaps the foregoing may suggest sortie of the 
causes that lie behind the success, and this ap- predation, of Harry Phillips Davis,. Vice Presi
dent in executive charge of all Wcstinghouse 
production and engineering activities^ During , 
the thirty-odd years of his service: lie has con
tributed consistently to electrical1 progress, not 
only by his work on arc lights and meters and 
transmission apparatus, but by his; effective and 
loyal attention to the detailed requirements of 
the many activities with which he has. been 
associated.
Mr. Davis has a reputation for getting things 
done, regardless of difficulties. His construc
tive abilities have carried him far, his contribu
tions to the electrical art have greatly aided in 
the maintenance of the engineering supremacy 
vwhich is the Wcstinghouse ideal, and he is rec
ognized, with particular emphasis, as one of those 
to whom is due the development of methods l'tfr 
the quantity production of first-grade electrical 
apparatus.
Westinghouse
NOMINEES FOR COUNCIL
PRESIDENT EXPRESS VIEWS
(Continued From Page One.) 
by a governing board. In regard to 
a query on the union of the two gov
erning bodies he replied: The powers of each seem to overlap and they 
duplicate the work of each other. The 
Student Council, if. the two bodies 
were not combined, should handle the 
government and the Student Activi
ties Board, take care of the financial 
matters, and thus alleviate all such 
trouble between the two boards.
Mr. Bowers is at present student 
secretary of the Y. M. C. A. and presi-: 
dent of the Debating Association. He 
is a member of the Student Activities 
Board and on the Campus Week Com
mittee and last year was vice chair
man of that committee. He was also 
assistant chairman of the Design Ball 
Committee and chairman of general 
Freshman Regulations Committee. Mr. 
Bowers was also a member of the Yt, 
nior Prom Committee and is now on 
the Thistle Board and a member of 
Delta Skull.
L. T. Johnston, a Junior in Machine 
Production in the College of Indus
tries, when interviewed and his opin
ion asked on the idea of a Graduate 
Manager of non-athletic activities, 
had the following to say: There is
really no need for such a man for all 
time but such a part'time position is' 
warranted. A 111ittlo Supervision of 
some sort would do some good: 
When asked what lie thought regard
ing a combination of the Student 
Council and Studeii't Activities Board 
into one bociy'lib said:. It is ti/tiiiglity 
good thing for" a great1 many times 
their actions conflict and there is no 
question but what in time some ac
tion will have to be taken. A union 
right away would not be feasible but 
the Student Activities Board should 
'ho gradually dissolved. Mr. Johnston 
was out for football and tennis, on 
the Soph Hop Committee, the Gambol 
of the Guilds and . Is now aiding the 
committee on Campus Week.
D. C. Porterfield, another'nominee, 
wlion approached and questioned ^re
garding Graduate Manager of nonathlettc activities replied: It seems
tlnit Tech Is getting to a point where 
it would he a good idea and would be 
of advantage. In regard to the 
union of tlie S. A. B. and ,tlie Student 
Council ho said: There are a lot
of things for tho Student Activities 
Board to do and.I really believe they 
are doing more than the Student 
Council and it would be a mighty 
good tiling to combine. Mr. Porter
field is a Junior in the Civil Depart
ment of the College of Science /and 
Engineering. 1-Ie is advertising man
ager of the Thistle, on the advertising 
staff of the Puppet, and Business 
Manager of the 1922 Student Hand
book. He is a member of Tlieta Tau 
and Alpha Alpha Nu.
T. S. Reppller, a Junior in Indus-1 
trial Engineering in the College of In
dustries, in regard to Graduate Mana
ger said: A very good idea. They
have needed one for a long time. How
ever, it is not a large enough job for 
full time. To the other question he 
replied: The S. A. B. is too large
and the personnel ought to be cut 
down and' sort of closer co-ordination 
between the two bodies brought 
about. Mr. Repplier was the chair
man of the Campus Week circus two 
years ago and on the Campus Week 
Committee last year. He was on the 
Soph Hop and Junior Prom Commit
tee, former managing editor of the 
Puppet and present editor of that pub
lication. He belongs to Delta Skull, 
Druids and Alpha Alpha Nu.
G. N. Pete Thompson when ap
proached regarding Graduate Manager 
said: There is not enough money
for a full time job. It is a good thing 
hut not practicably possible. In re
gard to combination of the two bodies 
he said: There should be some di
vision but more connection' so as not 
to back each other. There should be 
a concrete statement as to the powers 
of each. Mr. Thompson was vice 
president of the Sophomore class in 
the College of Science and Engineer
ing whore ho is now a Junior pursuing 
a course in Commercial Engineering. 
He is treasurer, of tho Junior class
Summer Courses in 
Mining Announced
Certificates to be Granted at 
Completion of Course
The Co-operative Department of 
Mining Engineering announces a sum
mer course in coal mining. The 
course will require four weeks for 
completion from June 26 to July 21. 
At the successful completion of the 
course, the student will be granted a 
certificate by the Cafnegi Institute 
of Technology and a Mine Rescue and 
First Aid Certificate by the United 
States Bureau of Mines.
The mornings will be devoted to 
studies at the institute and the fol
lowing subjects will be studied: Mine 
Laws and Regulations, Mine Explo
sives, Methods of Working,-Mine Ven
tilation, Mine Timbering, Mine Drain
age, Mine Gases, Mine Management, 
Safety Lamps, Mine Haulage.
The afternoons will be devoted to 
studies at the United States Bureau 
of Manes and the following subjects 
will be studied: Mine Rescue and
First Aid Training, Permissible Ex
plosives and Mine Explosion Demon
strations at the Experimental Mine, 
Lectyres on Permissible Electrical 
Equipment, Mine Safety and other 
mining subjects.
The coal mining industry is the lar
gest industry in the entire region and 
offers employment to large numbers 
of men. The offering of such a course 
by C. I. T. is the first time in history 
that any school in this region offers 
a summer course. preparatory to the 
state examinations. The graduates of 
tliis short course will be well prepar
ed for taking the examinations of the 
state department of Mines for posi
tions as fire bosses and mine foremen.
Any one wishing any further infor
mation should communicate with the 
supervisor of Co-operative Depart
ment of Mining Engineering, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
FACULTY PERSONALS
Miss Florence K. Root, Dean of 
Women of P. C. W., and Directors 
Breed and Bossange will be the speak
ers at the meeting next Saturday of 
the Sophomore High School girls of 
Pittsburgh.' which is held under the 
auspices of .the Pittsburgh Branch of 
the American Association of Univer
sity Women, in the theater of the 
College of Fine Arts.
Dr. Baker lias received a letter from 
Commander J. O. Fisher, head of the 
Naval Academy Postgraduate School, 
inquiring whether this institution 
Could furnish instruction to officers 
of the'-tl'/ S-.'Navy'in advanced metal
lurgy. Professor McIntosh will go to 
Annapolis next Tuesday to confer with 
Commander Fisher.
Dean Tarbell attended the annual 
conference of Deans of IVfen of midwestern institutions which wap held 
at the University of Kentucky last
week.
'On April 11, Director Bingham gave 
an address at Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology on Research in Personell Selection.
Mayor Magee has appointed Prl5f. 
Jo'hn S. Iveir, head of the Department 
of Industrial Economics, as a dele
gate to the 2Gth Annual Meeting of 
the American Academy of Political 
and Social Science.- to be held May 12 
and 13 in Philadelphia.
Dr. Baker will speak at the banquet 
of the Central High iStelioql, Erie., next 
Wednesday evening, and at the lun
cheon of the Erie Clan the same day. 
Dr. Baker will also give an address by 
radio, Friday, April 2S, on Commer
cial Engineering.
Mrs. Laura W. L. Scales, Dean of 
Wdmen at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, has written a book entitled 
Boys of the AgesTheir Dreams and 
Their Crafts, that has just been pub
lished by Ginn & Company. The 
book is to be used as a supplemen
tary reader for schools.
Professor Edmund Esquerre. head 
of the Department of Physical Educa
tion and Student Health, Carnegie 
Tech, lias been appointed a member 
of a committee by Director Rauh, 
Pittsburgh Department of Charities, to 
make a survey of-the districts in the 
Mayview City Home and Hospitals.
'17 M. M. ENTERTAINED
The officers of the Class of 1917 en
tertained their classmates and Direc
tor Breed on Saturday afternoon, 
April 1 in Recreation Hall. Those 
present were Ruth Patterson Largey, 
Imelda Chittenden Sladden, Ida Hoff
man Morgan, Gail Sellers Fettke, Lenore Read, Margaret Wirth, Sue 
Smith, Cecelia Hillman Salsbury, Berthat Glazier, Gladys Wakefield, Mar
garet Vero, Rebecca Sell mucker Con
ner and Miriam Weikert. Plans are 
being made now for 17's fiifth reun
ion, which will be held in the near fu
ture.
and of the Science Senate. Also a 
member of the Rille Club, the Junior 
Prom Committee, Delta Skull, the 
Druids and Tau Beta Pi.
Campus Week, May 25 th, 26 th, 27 th
Alumni Banquet, Sat. Noon, May 27
English Room, Fort Pitt Hotel
A prominent Pittsburgh manufac
turing concern will have a steady 
year round position open June 1st for 
a graduate woman chemist, straight 
analytical work, in a modern wellequipped laboratory, located in the 
central part of the cityone who has 
a practical knowledge of mineral oils, 
fatty oils and their compounds.
Apply by letter, stating age, experi
ence and salary expected. Address P. 
L., this paper.Adv.
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh. 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School...............11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening
Service ...........................8 to 9
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLEFIELO 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
The Church of Friendly People 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D.,' 
Minister.
Sabbath School.......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service.........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service........ 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
clothes for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
MHGLEY5
Newest/reation
Peppermint fla 
rea chewinc euvored chewing gum 
vrlth Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
melts in your 
mouth," leaving 
the deliciously 
flavored gum 
center to aid 
digestion, 
brighten teeth 
and soothe mouth aid throat.
ter-N
54
ier-Ng
