BASEBALLFORBES FIELD 
FRIDAY3:00 P. M. 
CARNEGIE VS. PENN STATE
VOL. XIX No. 30CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCE 
UNION9:00 P. M. 
TECHSONS ORCHESTRA
TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1925
PASTEBOARDS FOR CARNEGIES 
MUSICAL COMEDY THRILLER 
ARE ON OPEN SALE THIS WEEK
Capacity Crowd Assured For 
Single Performance of 
Campus Week Show
TO EE HELD AT 
MOSQUE MAY 16
NIGHT STUDENT DANCE
IN UNION FRIDAY P. M.
Star Cast of Collegiately 
Speaking is Now Near 
Perfection
Ticket sale for "Collegiately Speak
ing, the Campus Week show, will 
open today, Tuesday, and continue to
morrow on the cut, at 11:30. This 
will be the first opportunity for those 
students who have not ordered 
-through their fraternities or dormi
tories to secure seats, and prepara
tions are made for a big rush.
Already, from the fraternity orders 
alone, over one thousand seats have 
been taken, with some of the frater
nities yet to be heard from. It looks 
as -though there will be nothing but 
standing room left by the night of 
the show. If necessary, the commit
tee will sell the seats around the 
sides of the Mosque, but this will not 
he done until all the other seats have 
"been soldAt present, practically all the 
$1.75 seats are gone, and those who 
want the best remaining seats had 
best be well up front in the line when 
the sale opens on t.he Campus today. 
This sale will be closed Wednesday 
at 1:30 if possible, and after that 
tickets will iiave to be secured at the 
Alumni Office. Seats will also be 
on sale at Mellor's, downtown, up un
til a few days before the per
formance.
The show itself is rapidly rounding 
into something recognizable as a 
musical comedy and the chorus is 
improving and improving. In fact, 
its getting so good that the man
agers have great trouble in dispersing 
. the various onlookers, who consis
tently shout for encores long after 
the members have quit for the day. 
After seeing the new steps which 
(Continued on Page Four.)
* Night students will hold their *
* annual inter-night school dance *S* 
*5* on Friday night, May S, in the .? 
?> Carnegie Union. This is the only *
* event of the year when the night ?!- 
-I- students of the three night col- <-
* leges of the Institute have the *>
* opportunity to meet each other *1*
* socially, and it usually draws a ?
t* large attendance. ?
* This years dance will be in *$ 
?I- charge of the newly-organized *1* 
> Night Student Council. Its offi- ?
* cers are George M. Hirning, * 
*? president; Edward E. McDonald, ?
vice president; Miss Frances 
Schultheis, secretary, and Daniel 
H. Kaney, treasurer. *!
?
1925-26 SHILLING 
LEADERS SELECTED
Vina L. Kahle, Nora Willets 
and Harriet Merwin Are 
Chosen
ALL ENGLISH MINORS
Techsons to Play For 
Saturday Nite Dance
Comic Songs by ObieNewman 
to Feature May Dance
All Carnegie is invited to the Fes
tive May Dance of the Carnegie Clef 
Club to be held in the Union next 
Saturday evening between the hours 
of nine and twelve.
The music for the evening will be 
furnished by the Techsons Orchestra 
an aggregation of young college fel
lows who certainly know how to syn
copate. They have -worked  up a lot 
of new stuff especially for this dance, 
that you simply cant resist.
Two new members have recently 
been added to this sterling band of 
musicians, and they have already 
proved their worth.' John Pelican, 
on the banjo, is well known to Car
negie dancers, having played with 
the Collegiate Imps all last, summer 
at the Pines. The new violinist is 
none other than Howard Levant, who 
is one of the best leaders ever seen 
around this city. Ted Mattson and 
Hal Hunter are still producing keen 
harmony on their saxes. Squawk 
Taylor of the old Collegiate Six is 
peppier than ever on the traps. Wil
bur Corswirt on the trumpet, and Joe 
Corbett on the trombone, are in their 
best form, and Doc Dougherty is 
still coaxing elusive tunes from the 
old ivory "keyboard.
The Union will hardly be recog
nizable on Saturday evening. It will 
be transformed into a garden of fra
grant May flowers- and entwining 
boughs of blossoming, trees- This is 
an entirely new scheme of decoration, 
Continued on Page Four.)
The Shilling Staff has made its 
elections for the ensuing year. The 
results are as follows: Editor-inchief, Vina Lee Kahle; Business 
Manager, Nora Willetts; Advertising 
Manager, Harriet Merwin; Associate 
Editor, Sarah Elizabeth Hayes; Arts 
Senior Representative, Ellenor Camp
bell; M. M. Senior Representative, 
Alice Moore; Arts Junior Represen' tative, Gladys York; M. M. Junior 
Representative, Virginia Wallis; M. 
M. Sophomore Representative, Syd
ney Giffen; Art Editor, Charlotte 
Mansfield; Circulating Manager Arts, 
Alice Nelson; M. M., Ruth Dawson; 
Secretary, Josephine Day.
The Editor-in-chief elect, Vina 
Kahle, is a Margaret Morrison Jun
ior in the English Minor Department, 
and has been an active worker on 
The Shilling Staff Bince she has been 
at Carnegie. The Business Manager, 
Nora Willetts, is also a Senior In the 
English Minor Department, has done 
meritorious work on several Carnegie 
Publications, and is a member of Pi 
Sigma Tau, girls honorary journal
istic society. Harriet Merwin, Ad
vertising Manager, is another of the 
more gifted English Minors, having 
worked on various publications, and 
is also a member of PI Sigma Tau.
The next issue of The Shilling will 
appear on the campus on or soon af
ter May 11. This number is to fea
ture poetry, but the short story, 
"Gold which received honorable 
mention in the recent short story con
test, will be included. There will also 
be a story Brass by Sarah Eliza(Continued on Page Two.)
ELEf-RICAL BANQUET TO BE
HELD AT FORT PITT HOTEL
Stunts; noble, inimitable, and fas
cinating; favors: valuable, useful, and 
attractive and speeches: short, snap
py and entertaining, together with a 
bountiful and palatable menu are the 
leading attractions already prepared 
for the Electrical Banquet to be held 
May 21 at the Fort Pitt Hotel.
Exclusive talent has been secured, 
and is already at work on a superproduction that will fill the gaily be
decked and crowded banquet hall 
with delighted students- Monologues 
by the premier of the art; speeches 
by faculty and guests, and get-to
gethers by all present, promise an 
evening unapproached in the social 
Reason.
After reviewing many possible sites 
for the biggest event on the Electrical 
calendar, the downtown hotel has 
been elected. Realizing that there 
are a number of freshmen who in
tend to elect this course for their 
major, it lias been decreed that all 
these are eligible to attend, and may 
purchase the coveted tickets which 
are to be placed before the public 
this week.
Three Surviving Candidates For Campus Queen
BETSEY LINDSAY
TO AWARD CUP FOR 
BEST SHOW AT FAIR
STUDENT COUNCIL CHOOSES 
LLOYD YODER AS PRESIDENT 
FOR COMING SCHOOL YEAR
DOROTHY DIAMOND
Fraternities, Departments and 
Clubs to Compete For 
Silver Trophy
MANY SUBMIT TITLES
With the handsome silver loving 
cup that wil be awarded the most 
original and popular stunt at the 
Country Fair, as an aim, numerous 
fraternities and departments have re
gistered their presentations for the 
Rustic Revival to be held at corner 
of Forbes and Woodiawn, Saturday 
afternoon of Campus Week.
Unrivalled in Campus Week his
tory is this trophy that will grace 
the halls of the most ingenious fra
ternity, department, or club, but far 
more unrivalled will be the produc
tions which representing the highest 
inventive skill of all the colleges will 
be the premier in entertainment that 
fair goers have gazed upon.
Loquacious, inimitable, and allur
ing are the nomenclatures which gen
ius has seen fit to bestow upon the 
stunts while yet in their embryo. The 
organizations which have registered, 
together with the clamorous; noble or 
nonpareil titles of their offerings are: 
AcaciaOriental Dance, Beta Theta 
PiMedicine Show, Delta Tau Delta 
Medicine Show, Delta MuQuartet, 
Delta Phi Deltaundecided, Kappa 
S'Igma RlioDance of the Seven 
Veils, Phi Kappaunnamed, Pi Kap
pa AlphaDancing Midgets, Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon  Hoot-chi Koo-clil 
Dance, Sigma Epsilon PhiIndeter
minate, Sigma Nil Monte Carlo, 
Theta XIMagician, Woodiawn Club 
Camp of 49, The Mld-Wost Cluh 
will olTer a War Dance, the Non-De
gree AssociationMedieval Necking. 
A Scientific Show by the Physics De
partment, and a Vaudeville by De
partment of Painting and Illustrating 
completes the registered acts.
True indeed will be the rustic ef
fect of this Country Revel, for with 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Clown Band Will Again 
Perform at Campus Week
Upperclassmen will be glad to 
hear that the Campus Week Clown 
Band has reorganized this year under 
the supervision, of W. A. Lockard, 
player-manager and director. Mr. 
Lockard formed the first Campus 
Clown. Band, two years ago, with 
quite a number of musically talented 
students who were not with the Kil
ties. This year there will be eleven 
musicians in the organization; three 
of the 'present members were in the 
original group.
This capable party of entertainers 
will have uniforms which will har
monize with those of A1 Minettis 
Burlesque Troupe. In fact, the 
Clowners are to. perform and play at 
all of the performances of the Come
dians. In addition the Band will play 
at the R. O. T. C. performance; the 
Kaper of Kilties; and the Country 
Fair. The Band is sure to receive as 
welcome a reception as two years 
ago, and will strive to please the au
diences as only a finished group of 
performers can.
"Her Husbands Wife to be 
Given By Drama Department
Her Husband's Wife, a smart 
drawing room comedy which was 
written by A. E. Thomas, will be pre
sented by the Drama Department on 
May 7, S, 9, 11, and 13, and a matinee 
performance Friday afternpon, May 8- 
Mr. Thomas is also the author of 
Come Out of the Kitchen, Just 
Suppose.
He was a professor of Constructive 
English at Brown University, and 
worked fifteen years on a New York 
newspaper before his first play, "Her 
Husbands Wife reached the profes
sional stage.
This play which is the only smart 
drawing room comedy that is being 
performed in Drama Department this 
year was played in New York by 
Henry Miller and Laura Hope Creaves, where it enjoyed a popular suc
cess. Marion Beeson will act the 
part of Laura Hope Creavet, and Wil
liam Dickey, the part of Henry Miller. 
Others in the cast are Ann Lurie, 
Virginia Peterson, James Resley,
MARY SPEERS
Fourteen Girls Will Serve as 
Handmaids at Flower 
Coronation
FINAL ELECTION 
THIS THURSDAY
The Question, Who Will be 
Queen? to be Answered in 
Last of Three Elections
As a result of the second primary 
election, Dot Diamond, Betsy Lindsey 
and Mary Speers .today await the 
final balloting Thursday, as candidates 
l'or Carnegies Campus Quoon.
With fifteen girls from whom to 
make a choice the entlro enrollment 
selected these three as final candi
dates. The twelve defeated co-ods 
together with the two who will lose 
on Thursday are to form the flowor 
body-guard for the Queen. But who 
will be the Queen? It is not an honor 
to be lightly given, and so tlio com
mittee asks all to cpnsldor well their 
vote, to decide who will make the 
best Queen, who is to receive the 
homage of a college in its most joy
ous days.
Coronation of the chosen boauty 
will be a flower festival In the opon 
theater, at mid-night, but now It 
soems that knighthood Is in flower 
for the spirit and electioneering of 
each knight as he rallys to his hearts 
choice lias made spirit high and in
terest intense. Great reward hinges 
on the ballot, and the final choice is 
bound to show the wisdom of this 
long drawn out solectlon.
Campus Queens have lingered long 
In the hearts of Carnegie. Thoy are 
the Ideals, the champion beauties of 
the school. With tills In mind, a rosuit that will be a credit to all will 
be returned, when the ballots are 
counted the day after tomorrow.
For over a month, starting with the 
entire Senior class, narrowed down 
to fifteen, and then to three, this 
question has been debated In campus 
talk. It is the big event in pre-Cam(Continued on Page Four)
CAMPUS WEEK TACS 
PUT ON SALE TODAY
Will Not be PossiDle to Buy 
Tags For Week After 
Activities Begin
FLOSS JONES DESIGN
Campus Week Tags will bo sold 
In the halls of tlio various schools, 
probably during lunch hour, that is, 
from 11:30 to 1:30 every day, begin
ning Tuosday, until Campus Week. 
As was the case last year, the tags 
will cost $ L.00 and will admit the 
owner to any ovent with tlio excep
tion of the Campus Woelc show, Colloglately Speaking." Each porson 
must lmvo a tag, that Is, two to a 
couple, and these tago must ho dis
played for admission to the Mardl 
Grns, which will bo restricted exclu
sively to students and alumni.
It will not he posslblo to get tags 
after Campus Woelc starts, therefor 
It behooves those who would enter 
Into I,ho frivolities to do their C. W. 
shopping oarly.
Tlio social commlttoo for Campus 
Woelc has announcod tlio solootlon of 
the design for Campus Woelc tags. 
Tlio tags are now being prlntod and 
will ho available to the alumni on 
May 1st, and to tlio undorgraduates 
on May 10th. The price of the taxis 
to bo ono dollar, which will provide 
for admission to all ovents ol! the 
woolc with tlio exception of the show 
at Syria Mosque,
I'ho doslgn for tlio Campus Week 
tag was made by Floss Jones of tlio 
Printing and Illustration Department, 
and Is admirably adaptable for Its 
purpose. The tag Is triangular In 
shnpo, brown In color, with a clown 
holding a sign for Campus Week on 
the front and a completo progrum of 
events on the back. It Is provldod 
with a string and should bo worn 
throughout the woolc.
In order that undoslrablo outsiders 
might not obtain entrance to tlio so(Continued on Pago Throe)
Campus Courier is Innovation in 
Field of Campus Week Journalism
The Campus Week guide to whos 
who and whats what at Carnegie will 
this year be the Campus Courier. It 
will be Issued on Thursday, Friday 
and Saturday mornings of CampuB 
Week, and strange to relate it will 
contain up-to-the-minute news.
The Campus Courier will be a much
with the events, 
be the best guide 
Information of all
tually correspond 
The Courier will 
available for all 
types.
The clrcuatlon staff, headed by Art 
Balir, are now very busy handling 
SuliWiptlons. Assisting him are Lois 
Snydfer, who has charge of the girls'
different paper than the Sporran of dormitories, and Hoot Gibson, who is 
last Campus Week. It will be an ex- busy taking money from the strong 
ceptional newspaper with experienced boxes of the mens halls, 
editorial and circulation staffs. The j Fraternities are being solicited, and 
Courier will print only the things I it is urged that they turn in their 
that are of interest to the student j subscriptions as soon as possible. It 
body and the alumni here for Campus i has been suggested as a plan, that the 
Week. All of the everfts of the day cost of the Courier be added to each 
preceding the morning of publication i mans Campus Week assessment in 
will be accurately chronicled. Lists of j the fraternity group. In this way a 
the days events will be given a prom-j great deal* of inconvenience can be 
inent place, as well as times that ac- (Continued on Page Three.)
Theta Tau Honorary 
Frat Calls Ten Men
Honors Are Divided Between 
Juniors and Sophs
At the beginning of last week, the 
local chapter of Theta Tau, national 
honorary fraternity for students in 
professional engineering courses, 
pledged ten men to the fraternity. 
The men were chosen on a basis of 
scholarship, activity, and personality. 
Five of the men called are Sopho
mores and five are Juniors.
W. C. Winning is a Junior in the 
Chemical Engineering Department. 
He is a member of the Delta Chi Rho 
Fraternity and the Tau Beta Pi and 
Pi Delta Epsilon honorary fraterni
ties. In addition, he is News Editor 
of The Tartan, and chairman of Cam-, 
pus Week Publicity Committee.
J. A. Cook is a Junior Commercial 
and a member of the Beta Theta Pi 
Fraternity. He is also First Assis
tant Track Manager.
Robert Bridges is a Druid,- a. mem
ber of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, 
and Treasurer of the Sophomore 
Class; He is registered In the Com
mercial Engineering Department.
E. C. Plummer is Vice President 
of the Sophomore Class, and a mem
ber of the Delta Upsllon Fraternity 
and the Druids. He is pursuing the 
Commercial Engineering course,
E. E. Smith Is a Junior In the 
Mechanical Engineering Department 
and a member of the rifle team and 
the Sigma Epsilon Phi Fraternity.
I L. R. Sheppard is a Sophomore 
Commercial, Assistant Football Manj ager, Chairman of the Plebe Regulaj tions Committee^-and a member of 
j the Sigma Nu Fraternity. He is also 
serving on the Campus Week Com
Senior Hat Campaign is 
On During All This Week
Yesterday, the first day of Senior 
hat week, the Every Senior with a 
Senior Hat Campaign was begun, and 
an extensive sale of Senior hats will 
continue throughout the week.
The Senior hat committee requests 
that each and every Senior wear Ills 
Senior hat for the remaining part of 
the school year. The Seniors should 
have one grand and glorious feeling 
when they don one of these snappy 
light gray hats with the plaid band 
and strut down the street. If the old 
hat is shabby and worn out, the Se
nior hat committee lias a large avail
able stock of brand new hats in all 
sizes. These hats will be on sale at 
either the Mens Cafeteria or the Y. 
M. C. A. club room (posters stating 
the place of sale are already posted), 
at the low price of $2.25.
The committee wishes that the en
tire Senior class co-operate with them 
and make9 the "Every Senior v/lth a 
Senior Hat campaign a success.
CLASS ELECTIONS TODAY
FOR COMING YEAR !
This morning at the assembly, ?:
 tlio oUlcers for each of tlio four *i
 classes of tlio four schools will  
1 be elected for next year. Except ?:
 for the Freshmen, each of the 
 classes have shown a lively in- *
 terest in the outcome as ovt- :
 donced by their active partisan ship for their respectivo 'candi dates.
The place of the elections will 
 he at each schools assembly hall, *
 where the election committee ?
 will be stationed with the lists *
 of candidates, the ballot boxes, 
 and the class rolls. Checking oil 
 the names of the voters as thoy *
 voto will prevent any attempt to 
 pad or stuff the ballot box. With 
 those precaution^, all candidates 
 will have a fair chance and the 
 winners will bo truly representa tlve.# A heavy ballot is being 
 freely predicted in all of the four 
 schools, and with such will bo 
 given an unquestionable proof *
 that the whole student body is 
 backing student government and -
> activities.
WAYNE K0PPES WILL 
DIRECT SENIOR WEEK
Three Representatives Will be 
Chosen From Each School 
For Committee
PROGRAM NEXT WEEK
Wayno Koppoa, aonior urehltool' 
and mombor of Delta Tau Delta so
cial fratornlty, was oloctod chalrman 
of Ilio Senior Woolc Cmmltteo at 
Ilio la'fit meeting of th Sludont Colin
oli. Though ho bau not had timo to 
organino tho worlc, or malco vory com
pleto plans, Mr. Koppoa promise that 
tho linai frollo wlll ho a socond 
Campus Woolc. far tho sonlors. A 
boat rido, athlotlo ovonts, senior bauquet, and moi.it of tho tradltlonal fonturos, upplomontod by "somothlng 
now", aro lnoludod In Ilio tentativo 
plana.
Mr. Koppoa, doaplto tho proaauro of 
humoroua "charetloa, Ima dono conimoudablo worlc In atudont actlvltloa. 
Ho la proaklont of tho Intorfratornlty 
Colludi, a mombor of Drulda, Scarsi), 
an archltotural honorary, tho muncul Cluha, and la ono of Carnogloa 
niost oxporloncod commlttoomon. Ho 
Ima aot out on hla latoat dutloa wltli 
Ilio purpoao of malntalulng tho atandard for tho proaont yourCurnogloa 
blggost and bost social soason.
Wayno assuros thoao Jntorestod 
that hla commlttoo, compoaod of 
tliroo mombora from oaoli achool, and 
tho completo program, wlll ho ready 
for tho noxt Tartan.
Women Hold Senior Ball 
At University Club Friday
Last Friday evening, May 1, at the 
Univeraity Club, tho senior women of 
Carnegie held their Senior Ball, that 
never-to-be-forgotten event of their 
senior year.
This Senior Ball was in the form 
of a dinner dance. Tho festivities 
began at 7:30 p. m., and continued 
until 2:00 a. m., at which hour the 
reluctant couples were compelled to 
leave the floor, and the Senior Ball 
became past history. A full-course 
dinner was served, with dancing be
tween courses, to the harmonious 
strains of Carnegies popular orches
tra, the Collegiate Imps. The decora
tions consisted of spring flowers, and 
the gaily colored blossoms which 
adorned each table gave the room a 
truly spring-like and festive appear
ance. With a delicious dinner, in
spiring music, and beautiful decora
tions, the participants In the Senior 
Ball felt that nothing more was to 
be desired. The ball will go down 
Continued on Pace Four.)
New Head, Football Star, is 
Prominent Figure in 
Campus Activities
BEEDE ELECTED 
VICE-PRESIDENT
Josephine Day is Secretary, 
J. A. Ropp Treasurer of 
New Body
After two unsuccessful elections, 
the student council, at a special elec
tion last Tuesday evening, choose 
Lloyd Yoder president of the student 
council; Dwight Boedo, vice presi
dent.; Josephine Day, secretary, and 
J- II. Ropp, treasurer.
Twice the student council, couldnt 
swing a majority vote In plther 
Boedes or Yoders favor. Conse
quently, at a third election Yoder was
LLOYD YODER
ohoaon president and Hoodo waa 
ohoaon vice president, by virtue of 
aocond hlghoat number of ballots In 
hln favor,
Lloyd Yoder In undoubtedly quali
fied for the proaldonoy, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Druid, and Dolta Skull hon
orary rmternltloH, 11)2-1 Football, Arts 
(Continued on Pago Four,)
Arch For Approach to 
Cut Nears Completion
Committee Asks Co-operation 
of Buikjing Depts.
Goils Priming Sweepstakes Entries 
As Race of Century Draws Near
mittee.
! W. S. Hanley Is Plelre Basketball 
| Manager- He is a Junior Commercial 
I belonging to the Sigma Epsilon Pill 
j Fraternity.
I P. M. Williams is a First Assis(Continued on Page Four)
Rumor will out and no will the 
roomers If you dont give them good 
meals. Just now the ncandal rampant 
upon the Campus In conjunction with 
the dirt (excuse pleaae, but that word 
1 NOT licentious, lewd, or lascivious) 
about the slaters down tho ntroot la to 
various and sundry effect.
In tho first place the kind of ve
hicle to bo employed Is a grave mys
tery. No one knows or oven dares 
to guess what the fair ladles will 
pilot to everlasting fame. The only 
clue that has been discovered Is to 
wit: c. prominent mail order house, 
Bear3 and Sawbuck, to be exact, has 
1-' en entrusled to provide the carry
alls in wK ii our fair damsels will 
pit themselves vs. pne r other;
Another point do combat Is the na
ture of th costumes which may bo 
worn, Paris nay a gay afternoon cos
tume of periwinkle volour caught at 
j tho waist with eight or ton yard of 
OenrgoUo wlll do tho trick. Any 
smart breezy costumo ought to work 
to tho benefit of all concerned.
Tho girls' Sweepstake tlila year 
has been kept ao quiet that It must be 
going to be ono of the high spots of 
Campus Week. When any herd of 
women has something to do that re
quires transportation and clothes and 
keeps quiet about It, you can bet the 
chances that all the Seniors will grad
uate, against a yearly meal ticket at 
the grill that somebody is going to 
(Continued on Page Two.)
After throe weeks' work tho con
struction commlttoo for Campua 
Woolc announeoa that tho arch to bo 
placed at tho approach to tho cam
pustho cut, 1 rapidly nearing com
pletion and will bo sot up on tho 
Wednesday before Campua Woolc. 
Tho work oil tho arch la being done, 
In Langley Laboratory and tho im
mensity of tho Btruolurtf makes It 
necessary for it to bo built in three 
sections.
Tho arch will bo twonty feet high, u 
vory colorful affair, electrically light
ed, llanlced at both ends by two huge 
stool towers, between which wlll be 
spread a long bannerCampus Week. 
Tills Is by far the most elaborately 
designed arch ever attempted for a 
Carnegie Campus Week and will bo 
the most attractive of the many dec
orative features planned for the 
week's festivities.
Another Important outside decora
tive feature nearing completion Is the 
twenty-foot windmill wheel to be pro
jected out of Machinery Hall tower, 
revolving continuously by electric 
power, and electric lights of four 
colors will represent the four colleges, 
Arts, Science, Industries and Mar
garet Morrison. .
The committee lias found very lit
tle co-operation among the students 
and the different departments which 
might aid In the building and con
struction work. This has retarded 
the speed of the work and brought up 
many disagreeable happenings whichmight have boon avoided. The com
mittee asks for each one to do his 
share of the work during the coming 
weok, that all arrangements may be 
completed satisfactorily.
TRI-PUBLICATION'8 BANQUET 
AT RU3KIN APT'8 TOMORROW
Tho Trl-Publlcatlona wlill hold (a 
banquet for the member of tho staff 
tomorrow evening, the sixth ol! May, 
at the Ruslcln Apartments at (5:30 
p. rn,
Alfred 8, Andrew will' servo as 
toaatmaator for the evening. 'I'ho 
members of next yeara staff will be 
announced, and a speech by tho new 
Editor-In-Chief Is expected. The LeFrldge Trio will play music through
out the meal, and other entertainment 
Is promised.
Fred Rossini Is chairman of the 
committee in charge of the banquet 
and is being assisted by Lois Snyder 
and W. J. Kimmel.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 5, 1925
Published every week by undergraduate of tho Carnegie institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of tho Student Council.
Entered Jn the Postonico ol Pittsburgh an aocond-clasB matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH.....................................................................................Schonloy 0122
ASSOCIATE EDITOR8
f. D. ROSSINI __________A. E. KROOH__________________E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Li. H. Harris A. F. Carson_________R. R. Bilal or_________D. A. Oardnor
MANAGING EDITOR
FRED T. PHELPS.................................................................................Schonloy 0102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING .....................................-................................................Schonloy 9070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547-J
ALUMNI EDITORJ. M. GOSS..............................................................................Schonloy 0180
REPORTER8
R. L. Loppor, M. Ilolllnsheud, M. Dutt, 10. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand, M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Orant, E. Ross, II. L. Myers, L. V. Twohlg, F. Finn,
F. A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. Wlngold, L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Kimrne 1, R. M. l/ow, F. O. Wood, C. Neu, C. Hartung.____________________
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF .......................................................................................Schonloy 0286
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Margarot McFall, J. F. Harris, J; A. C. Follor, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Davldson, B. Krlstof, J. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON.........................................................................................Schonloy 0211
N. C. WESER, Assistant.......................................................................Schonloy 0122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE H. CARL..............................................................................Schonloy 0393-M
CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ ....................................................................-...............Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodnor, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, .1. P. 
Strinale, Lola Snyder, A. Perrolon, B. Supowltz, L. Sach, H. Kandell, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Mooro, R. L. dribblo, Gladys Reynolda, W. A. Bernardi.________
'1he Editor-In-Chief la roaponalblo for tho policy of thlB paper; tho
Managing Editor for tho make up.__________________________________________________
Tho Tartan welcomcB all communication of atudent Interest, If signed. 
Slgnaturo will bo withhold if desired. All nows Items must be In the aludent 
poBt oillce before 4:80 ThuiBday._________________________________
Tartan OillceRoom 12, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20.__________________________________________________________________________
SENIORS
There is something pathetic about a graduating Senior. Too 
late, upon graduating, does lie realize that the way has been greased 
for him, and that he is thrown upon the world with a more or less 
incomplete idea oi; what his responsibilities will be.
From a man wjio is looked up to by the underclassmen, and 
called by name by the faculty, largely through his Seniority, he be
comes a mere cog in a machine, a non entity, dependent for his very 
life upon the degree in which lie can satisfy another man. lie is re
duced from a sort of superior person to one who must make his life 
with people who know no superiority, except ability; he must start on 
the same level us the boy who had no schooling whatsoever, and is 
usually inferior to that boy in point of experience.
There is a certain elation at the prospect of new opportunities, 
and new things; but at the same time there is a certain nameless ap
prehension ol (lie unknown, a sort of wistfulness at leaving the fa
miliar for the unfamiliar.
Of course, within a few years, most of these men will have set
tled down to some task or other, and many of them will be making a 
comfortable living. Some few will amount to nothing, derelicts, de
pendent upon the whims ol chance for their sustenance. Some few 
will become celebrities in that strange After-College which we call 
the World.
As they pass before us, we wonder what each will be. And as 
we think of them, wo think ol' ourselves, with our boundless promise, 
our inpatient intolerance of failure, and. we wonder.
STUDENT COUNCIL PRESIDENT
The selection of Lloyd Yoder for President of I he Student Coun
cil for the next year came after one of the most hotly contested elec
tions ever held in the Student Council. It was early apparent that 
the choice lay between Yoder and Bcode, There was little to choose 
in the way of ability between either of tho men, and the vote was 
clearly a matter of personal opinion of the members of the Council.
There were several ballots east, all of which were ties, or else had 
not the majority of voting members which is required for election ac
cording to I he Constitution of tho Council. Finally, however, Yoder 
was elected.
The Carnegie Tartan takes this opportunity of congratulating 
the newly elected President and to wish him luck in his now posi
tion. We feel that, the Council could male* no mistake in choosing 
either of the two men, and next years Council is indeed fortunate, 
that it will Imvo both men upon it.
Tho fact that the ballot was so close, and so many were required, 
moroly goes to show how convinced wore the supporters of each man 
that lie was best fitted for tho position. Those who voted clearly 
thought before so doing, and the students may feel satisfied that the 
results of tho election were arrived at after a comprehensive survey 
of the whole situation by the Student Council._______________________
Student Calendar
TUESDAY. MAY 5 
Ticket Sale for Collegiately Speaking opens.
WEDNESDAY, MAY 6
TennisNotre Dame..................................2:30 P. M., Campus Courts
THURSDAY, MAY 7
TennisPlebes vs. Crafton High..............2:30 P. M., Campus Courts
Her Husbands Wife.................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
BaseballPenn State.................... ................3:00 P. M., Forbes Field
TennisPenn State.....................................2:30 P. M.. Campus Courts
 *Her Husbands Wife  ..................................4 :Q0 P. M., Little Theater
S :30 P. M., Little Theater 
SATURDAY, MAY 9
Tntcrscholastie Track Meet......................................10:00 A. M., Bowl
TrackVarsity vs. Geneva.........................................2:00 P. M., Bowl
Plebes vs. Indiana Normal......................................At Indiana
BaseballVarsity vs. Grove City.....................................At Grove City
Plebes vs. Bellefonte Academy.......................At Beliefonte
Her Husbands Wife..................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
Saturday Night Dance..............................................9:00 P. 3VI., Union
MONDAY, MAY 11
Her Husbands Wife..................................S:30 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY, MAY 12
TrackVarsity vs. Pitt.................................................2:30 P. M., Bowl
Plebes vs. Pitt Freshmen..................................2:30 P. M., Bowl
TennisVarsity vs. W. Va. Wesleyan........2 :30 P. M., Campus Courts
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13
Tennis-Plebes vs. Westmont High...........2:30 P. M., Campus Courts
Her Husbands Wife..................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
MIGRATORY DANCE.........................................................9:00 P. M.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, MAY M, IT. AND 10 
CAMPUS WEEK
GOILS PRIMING SWEEPSTAKES 
ENTRIES AS "RACE OF THE
CENTURY DRAWS NEAR
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
tliyow a big surprise.
In this connection we have been 
warned tluit rule 234567S9-soct. pp.295- 
465 of the White Book forbids our 
saying that any of our girls are 
speedy or fast or even to mention 
that they haveer limbs to run with, 
but we will take a chance and humbly 
mention that we dont thlnlc that the 
race will be at all slow and that we 
believe that the girls will propel 
themselves with the implements that 
nature so generously (in some cases) 
has provided them with.
AU tho ticket. along tho oourso 
luvvo nlroady hoon sohl so tho raco 
will bo Btrlotly a "atandlng room 
only" matter.
This yoar tho ra.ee wlll absolutely 
not he "ilxed," tho commlttoo states. 
Just now lt. looks llke a most amazlng 
speetacle and, to paraphraso somoone 
or othor lot the best man win.
1925-26 SHILLING
LEADERS SELECTED
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
1. The Election of Von Hindcnburg.
2. All Big Powers Return To Gold 
8tandardc.
An individual and not a cause won 
the German election on April 26. Tho 
world was taken back, when from of
ficial quarters, came the announce
ment that Field Marshal Paul von 
Hindcnburg, a MonarchiBt, had been 
elected preBldent of the Gorman Re
public against Marx and Tliaeman.
In analysing the result after the 
Bmoko ol emotionalism and hysteria 
has begun to pass away, the situa
tion doesn't look as serious us at 
first. How many times in history 
have popular military heroes been 
made political rulers? Take for ex
ample, Cromwell in England, Napor 
loon In France, arid Washington and 
Grant in the United States. The Field 
Marshal Is one of the great idols of 
the German people. Massive, stern, 
dignified and looking like a Norse 
god, he Is greeted on every occasion 
by ovations.
Hindonburg carried Bavaria, the 
heart of the monarchistic movement, 
as expected; Prussia swung to him, 
fearing apparently more communistic 
bloodshed and uprisings; East Prus
sia voted almost to a man to elect 
him, apparently on the strength of his 
delivering them from the Russian in
vasion in the last war, and the coun
try districts were particularly strong 
for the old war horse, as he is af
fectionately called. The Rhine dis
trict, which is occupied noAV by allied 
troops, voted against him, the feeling 
seeming to be that they wanted to tie 
to someone who was swinging for 
peace.
The situation is unfortunate as re
gards its effect upon foreign coun
tries. The Dawes plan had put a feel
ing of certainty into the Europeun sit
uation. The nations of the world 
were beginning in. a small way to for
get their differences; to get their fi
nances on a more stable basis, and 
what is doubly important, to get down 
to work. This election has throAvn a 
chill over the raised hopes of Europe. 
England will find it harder to get a 
formula for peace, French prejudice 
will be increased and America will sit 
back and wait. Germany has chosen 
to run enormous risks in thus letting 
her sentimentality get away with her.
One incident of note occurs us we 
go to press which may mean little or 
much. Chancellor Luthon after his 
first talk with President-elect Hlhdenburgj in an important speech be
fore the German Industrial and com
mercial conference, calls for the evac
uation of Cologne by the entente, In
sisting that In their present disarmed 
state sho needed to bo guaranteed by 
a security past just as much as the 
allies. How, much of this came from 
Hindonburg and how much it forbodes 
for tho future, is a matter of conjec
ture. The worlds eyOs will be on 
Germany for some time to come and 
she will continue to hold the center 
of tho worlds political stage.
To got batik to normalcy, has been 
the, cry raised over since tho armlstlco.was signed, and whllo the world 
has shown signs hero and thoro, no 
Indication of groator importune could 
bo given than that Included In Winfltod Churchill's speech boforo the 
British parliament whore ho announc
ed the return ol! England to a gold 
standard, mentioning that both Aus
tralia and Now Zealand woro taking 
similar steps. Canada had, and tho 
Union of South Africa would take sim
ilar stops on July 1. Holland, tho 
Dutch East Indies, Swoeden, Ger
many, Austria, Hungary and the Unit
ed States have already joined the 
ranks, so that now practically the en
tire majority of big trading nations 
have re-established their monetary 
standards.
In the same speech the chancellor 
announced the restoration of the Mc
Kenna customs taxes 'on imported lux
uries. imposing new protective duties, 
reducing income taxes and the super
tax and increasing the benefits to the 
poor and aged and death duties.
To take the proper precautions in 
this step, the treasury has collected 
for reserve 153,000,000 in gold, has 
bought $166,000,000 worth and has ar
ranged for credit in the United States 
of $300,000,000, to be used in case 
of necessity. $200,000,000 of this 
money was put on credit by the Fed
eral Reserve Bank and the other 
$100,000,000 by the firm of J. Pierpont 
Morgan.
By the silver and gold export con
trol act of 1920, the export of gold 
was prohibited without a license. This 
act expires this December. To quote 
from the chancellors speech, We 
therefore have decided that.although 
the prohibition of the export of gold 
will continue in form on the statue 
booolcs until December 31, a general 
license will bo given the Bank of Eng
land for the export of gold and bullion 
from today on. Wo thus rosume our 
International position as a gold stand
ard country from tlio moment this 
declaration is made.
It. is doubtful whether the Bank of 
lOngland will need our credit. The' 
gold borrowed by tho Bank of Eng
land from tho Bank of Franco In the 
Baring crisis of 35 years ago was re
turned with the original seals un
broken. However, it is a very wise 
safeguard. England lias taken the 
only reasonable step, a step that they 
have been aiming at for some time.
All the world will rejoice and will 
have good reason for rejoicing.
IN OUR LETTER BOX
To The Editor of The Tartan:
After reading the article on woman 
in your Thats That column and 
the criticism on it I felt Inclined to 
siied a little light on that subject 
myself. As far as experience goes 
I believe I am Jn a little better posi
tion to judge than either of your 
previous writers.
In using the word pal your first 
writer did not define his meaning. A 
woman can be and very frequently 
Is a pal to her husband. Where a 
girl Is a pal to a man in the sense 
th3 writer meant all he has said is 
true.
Your second writerthe authoress 
of the criticismhad a just cause jn 
defending her sex. She did it 
splendidly but made a mistake in 
citing her examples. She should 
have asked the author of the Thats
That" column to take any twenty or
dinary families and prove that of 
even -five of them the husband and 
wife were not pals. I am sure that 
he would have been surprised at his 
results.
It is not the noted few that prove 
a point such as this. It is the great 
j mass. Woman has a beautiful place 
In the advancement of the world and 
In being a true pal she is doing noth
ing new. Woman has always been a 
pal a helpmateand at many times 
a leader of an almost beaten man. 
Give her credit boys.
I hope the author of the "Thats 
That column may get a wifeif he 
does not have onethat is the pal to 
him that my wife has been to me.
Sincerely,
EXPERIENCE.
HYDRAULICS LAB. 
RECONSTRUCTED
Advantage Taken of Needed 
Repairs to Remodel and 
Improve Lab.
Extensive repair work and altera
tions have been in progress in the 
Hydraulic laboratory during the past 
four months and are now approach
ing' completion. For a number of 
years the concrete floor of this labor
atory has been gradually sinking, the 
cause of this being the tendency of 
the underlying soil to slide in the di
rection of the deep ravine north of 
the Science building. By December 
of the present school year, a cavern 
of considerable size had developed 
under the laboratory floor; and the 
settlement of the floor had become so 
serious that heavy strains were 
thrown on piping and machinery. Un
der these conditions it was consid
ered to continue the use of the labor
atory for student work; and at the 
beginning of the Christmas holidays, 
the laboratory equipment was dis
mantled, and the old concrete floorbroken up and removed.
Upon the digging of test pits into 
the underlying soil, it was found that 
it' was an artificial fill of soft clay 
many feet in thickness and quite un
suitable for supporting a floor carry
ing heavy machinery. It was there? 
fore decided to rebuild the laboratory 
floor with reinforced concrete, and to 
support it on girders and columns 
resting on the main footings of the 
Science building Avhlcli are founded 
on bed rock. The work of concreting 
was carried on during the coldest 
weather of the winter, and numerous 
difficulties were encountered in 
transporting sand, gravel, and cement 
to the site of the laboratory. In the 
end a floor was laid which will be 
rigid and permanent under heavy 
loading.
Advantage has been taken of this 
repair work to make numerous al
terations in the arrangement of pip
ing and the equipment -ill the Hydrau
lic laboratory. In making these al
terations the primary consideration 
has been to secure more favorable 
conditions for student work in the 
laboratory. Other considerations 
wore tho reserving of space for new 
pieces of apparatus required to ltoep 
tho laboratory work In touch with 
modern hydraulic Interests, and the 
providing of facilities for hydraulic 
resoarch.
In remodeling the laboratory much 
study has been given to the prob
lem of securing adequate lighting and 
drainage, clearance and freedom of 
interference between different pieces 
of apparatus, and tho providing of 
piping with a sufficient number of 
valves and connections to make it 
possible for students to work in 
groups of not more than three. Un
der former conditions light was ex
cluded from the laboratory by a tank 
house which covered two windows, 
and by the obstruction of other win
dows by large pieces of equipment; 
the drainage arrangements were 
such that water could accumulate on 
the floor to a depth of several inch
es; and piping connections made it 
difficult to conduct various experi
ments by other than the class de
monstration" method. In the new 
laboratory all windows have been 
cleared, a complete drainage system 
has been installed below the floor 
level and numerous new pipes and 
valves have been provided to secure 
flexibility of operation and to Insure 
a liberal flow to each piece of appar
atus.
New and larger piping is provided 
for experiments on the flow of water 
in pipe lines, in order to take advan
tage of the full capacity of the exist
ing centrifugal pump equipment. The 
alteration plans provide for the re
servation of floor space for four ma
jor pieces of new equipment:-an open
| The Chatter Box j
ARIEL, By Andre Maurols.
"ArielLife of Shelley. That title 
is inviting for two reasons: primarily, 
because one is mystified by the word 
Ariel, secondly, because the story 
of the life of any great man always 
arouses curiosity. It always has 
seemed unfair to me that men or 
women who reach great heights in 
this world should be subjected to such 
harsh criticism as they undoubtedly 
receive. Why is it that a minister is 
expected to be free from human frailities? He is only one man out of a 
million. The only difference between 
him and any other man is that his 
star is just a little higher up in the 
heavens, and lie is striving a great 
deal harder to hitch his wagon to it.
But I am off on a tangent. I be
gan by remarking that any man who 
strives to reach above the heads of 
his fellow creatures in this world, au
tomatically subjects himself to severe 
censure. In Ariel, Andre Maurois 
draws very vividly for the reader, a 
picture of the intimate life of- Percy 
Bysshe Shelley. As a very young 
child, Shelley was "different. At the 
preparatory school age, lie became re
bellious. He worshipped beauty, and 
he resented any restrictions which 
convention might place upon his en
joyment of it. He was misunderstood 
at college; he was literally persecuted 
for his ideas and his expression of 
them. He never finished his college 
course, but from the time he left Ox
ford, lie wandered about Europe creat
ing for himself a little world of his 
own wherever he went. In this small 
world, his friends revolved about him, 
and were attracted toward him as the 
satallites of the moon revolve about 
it and are attracted toward it. Some
how, throughout the story of his very 
unconventional life, the reader does 
not become thoroughly disgusted with 
the man, rather, he pities him. Why 
compassion should be aroused in this 
particular case instead of the disgust 
that is generally stimulated by such 
stories, 1 am at a loss to explain, un
less that feeling might be traced to 
the fact that a person born without 
any conception of convention is as 
much to be pited as one born without 
sight. But this feeling of pity for 
such persons is by no means univer
sal; and .right here is- tho question 
that is in my mind as to the material 
value of such books to the reading 
public.
The first time I- ever heard of the 
book, someone told me that if 1 ever 
wanted to enjoy any of Shelleys 
poems again, not to read this story of 
his intimate life. "A word to the 
wise is sufficient, but, unfortunately, 
most people are not wise, hence, being 
in tills latter category, I was not able 
to rest at night until I had "Ariel" 
in my possession. However, my 
friend who warned me concerning 
Ariel was sadly disillusioned by the 
book. Shelley had always been her 
favorite poet, and she had admired 
his wonderful power of picturing 
beauty in nature more than any of the 
other poets. She had imagined his. 
life to be one of perfect harmony with 
the rest of the world; she had pic
tured him as a man of firm religious 
beliefs, if not actually devout; and
steel channel forty feet long for ex
periments on the hydraulics of flow 
in channels, a steel frame twenty-two 
feet long for experiments on the hy
draulic jump and related phenomena, 
a large valimetric tnak for the con
trol of accuracy in all work done in 
the laboratory, and a table equipped 
for the demonstration of hydraulic 
principles and the carrying on of 
special researches.
The repair and remodeling work 
in the Hydraulic laboratory has been 
carried on by the regular Institute 
forces under the direction of Colonel 
Fairley, the plans being prepared by 
Professor Thomas.
PROFESSOR THOMAS.
J. A. BAKER TO LECTURE ON
CHEMICAL INDUSTRY, MAY 8
The third of the series of five pub
lic lectures given under the joint aus
pices of the Chemical Equipment As
sociation of New York City and Car
negie, is announced for next Friday 
evening, May 8, when Mr. J. A. Baker, 
Engineer, the Dorr Company, will dis
cuss "Continuous Processes in the 
Chemical Industry.
This series, arranged primarily for 
the benefit of chemists of the Pitts
burgh district, has so far been suc
cessful In attracting many students, 
members of the faculty, and others 
interested, besides the aforemention
ed chemists. No cards of admission 
are required for these lectures, all 
of which are held fn Room 218, 
Science Building.
SCHENLEY THEATER
Coopers Collegians, an orchestra of 
11 talented players, all of them col
lege men from Carnegie and Pitt, will 
be the extra attraction on the pro
gram in the Schenley theater through
out the week of May 4.
On Monday, Tuesday and Wednes
day Johnny Hines will be seen in his 
dashing, clever, thrill comedy, "The 
Speed Spook, while on Thursday, 
Friday and Saturday the picture at
traction will be Conway Tearle and 
Sigrid Helmquist in the interesting 
modern drama, School for Wives.
The story of The Speed Spook 
was written by William Wallace Cook 
and centers about an automobile race, 
this phase of the film having been 
made at Altoona, Pa. Johnny Hines, 
who is one of filmdoms stars, claim
ing Pittsburgh as his home, has the 
role of Blue Streak Billings, who 
Teturns to his home town after win
ning an international automobile race, 
and finding himself the town hero, is 
compelled to live up to the reputation 
he has made for himself.
School for Wives is adapted from 
Leonard Merricks novel, The House 
of Lynch. Betty Lynch, daughter of 
wealth, falls in love with Richard 
Keith, a poor artist. Keith is prevent
ed from proposing by the fact that he 
is poor and also because there is a 
popular belief that the Lynch millions 
are tainted. Betty, however, consents 
to renounce all claim ,upon her fath
ers millions in order to bring a happy 
climax for their romance.
she had expected that a man of the 
nature that she accredited to him 
would love but once, and remain faith
ful to that love throughout his life. 
In direct contrast to lier own ideas 
of the poet, she finds  a man whose 
morality is questioned generally by 
the public, and who is ostracised by 
good society; a man who openly con
fesses his atheism; and lastly, one 
whose poor policy it is to fall in love 
with every beautiful woman he meets. 
In place of a life of harmony and 
pleasant relationships, she finds one 
of discordance and tragedy.
Will this knowledge of Shelley, the, 
man, in addition to that of Shelley; 
the poet, do anyone in this world any 
particular good? If so, why not let 
those who desire to know more inti
mately the sordid side of life seek it 
in its seclusion? By. bringing these 
undesirable things to light, no one is
State Dept. Official 
Lectures to Students
Tells Classes in Economics 
of European Conditions
Speaking before the Economic stu
dents on Wednesday afternoon, Mr. 
William R. Castle, .Jr., head of the 
Western European Division of the
State Department, emphasized the
need for greater attention to eco
nomic principles in drawing theboundary lines of the new states.
He pointed out that in the Peace 
Conference at Paris, too much em
phasis was placed upon races and
too little upon economic sufficiency. 
Thus in creating the new states 
they were guided too much by. the 
former consideration and too little 
my economic consideration.
By way of example, Mr. Castle 
quoted the case of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire. By the terms of the 
treaty, this Empire had taken away 
from her the following territories: 
Transylvania, Bukovina, Galicia, 
Trieste, Delmatia, Bosnia, Herzogovina, Bohemia and Moravia. By this 
division she lost all her mineral de
posits, timber lands and water pow
er. Again, Vienna is the business 
center of that section, all industries 
having their offices in Vienna. When 
Austria-Hungary was stipped of these 
territories, in which her factories and 
manufacturers were located, she was 
left only with the offices of their for
mer industries. The. only physical 
asset which remained was her farm
ing lands. Even these are insufficient 
to feed her population; as a result 
she will be dependent upon the gen
erosity of the world during the next 
Twenty years.
Another act of the Conference at 
Paris was the awarding to Poland of 
a strip of land extending from that 
country to the Baltic Sea. This strip 
of land, known as the Polish Corri
dor, divides Germany ' into two 
parts. Thus Poland has acquired a 
seaport, but this move is a crime 
economically; Germany needs this 
territory and she is bound to get it 
back, either by peaceful means or 
by force.
Again,' the new State of Czecho
slovakia, a country looking like an 
elongated sausage four hundred miles 
long and less than fifty miles wide, 
bordered by five states and composed 
of many more, finds herself constant
ly in boundary difficulties, compli
cated problems Of customs, and the 
great difficulty of maintaining her
self on a firm economic footing.
Mr. Castle moved rapidly from one 
European state to another, giving a 
brief description of its conditions 
and reiterated constantly to him 
premise, the great and crying need 
of economic sufficiency in tre draw
ing of boundary lines.
materially benefitted, and yet, at the 
same time, some joy is being taken 
out of life for someone.
It certainly seems to me that it is 
a case of an ill wind that blows no
body good!
ELIZABETH J. GORDON.
UNIVERSITY INN CRAIG-, NEAR CENTER~
Is now open for faculty and students.
OUK SERVICE WILL PLEASE YOU 
Please Give Us a Trial
ALL
SEATS
25cSCHENLEY
THEATER
ALL
SEATS
25c
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAYJ0NNY HINES
In His Zippy, Original, Interesting, Thrill Comedy.
THE SPEED SPOOK
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
Conway Tearle, Sigrid Holmquist and Alyce Mills in
SCHOOL FOR WIVES
Will Love, Live or Starve on a Moonbeam?
ALL WEEKALL WEEK
COOPERS COLLEGIANS
Wonderful Orchestra of 11 Men from Pitt and Tech 
COMEDYNEWSNOVELTY FILM AND OTHER FEATURES 
Complete Change of Program Monday and Thursday.
Plenty of Parking Space at the Schenley.
(Continued From Page One) 
beth Hayes. Warren Kimball and 
Paul Sandoz have contributed poems. 
The cover has been designed by 
Charlotte Mansfield and jsj to be an 
illustration of Sarah ElizaWetli Hayes 
poem ^Silhouette.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
f
OTjS
HATS HABERDASHERY 
SHOES
TFTOHMI
Fifth Avenue at 46th St.
NEW YORK
At
Wm. Penn Hotel 
Tomorrow and 
Friday 
Jim Boyle, Rep.

---------------------------------------------------

INOU RLEELTO 
BXCR CXLOLTNA
GCI---------------------------------------------------

INOU RLEELTO 
BXCR CXLOLTNA
GCI---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 5, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
IANL, N~sAU~LGE
PENN STATE LOSES 
TO TARTANS, 5-3
Conrad Hurls Plaid to First 
Major Sport Win Over 
Lions
Fielding faultlessly behind Conrad, 
who was in excellent form Saturday 
at State College, the Tartan nine de
feated the Nittany Lions in a hardfought struggle, score 5-3. This vic
tory marked the first that has been 
won from the Center countains by a 
Skibo team in a major sport.
It was a cold, cloudy day, with a 
stiff breeze blowing across the field, 
making it difficult for the players to 
field fly balls, but despite that handi
cap, the Tartans had only one error 
chalked up against them, that by Con
rad himself when he tlirewr wildly to 
second in a made-to-order double play. 
This was a costly misplay, for two 
runs later scored. Connie, however, 
made up for it by pitching masterful 
ball during the remainder of the bat
tle, holding the Penn Staters safely 
throughout. In the third inning Wil
son hit a line drive to center. Bastian fell sprawling on the slippery 
grass in attempting to field it, and the 
ball went over his head for a home 
run. Penn State had other chances to 
score, but each time air-tight fielding 
by Newman, Vogt and Lynch, or a 
strikeout by Conrad put a damper on 
the home teams chances, cutting a 
rally short. Penn State scored twice 
in the second. Styborski- led with a 
single and Harris was safe on Con
rads error. Kerstetters single scored 
Styborski and Harris stole home 
while Carnegie Tech was throwing 
the ball around. Wilsons homer ac
counted for the final State tally in the 
third.
Christoff led off the Skibo fourth 
with a single. Maurer walked, Sty
borski dropped Newmans liner and 
Christoff scored. Kerstetter hurled 
Lynchs attempted sacrifice to center 
field, Mauer scoring, and Newman 
counted on Diffieys single.
The Sltibos clinched the game in 
the fifth. Christoff was safe on an 
error by Schwartz. Singles by Maurer, 
Lynch and Vogt followed and two runs 
crossed. Except in these rounds, 
Page pitched steady ball.
The fielding features of the game 
were sensational shoe-string catches 
by Bastian and Wilson, a fine running 
catch of a liner by Bahr, and a diffi? THE WEEK IN SPORTS
?I* WEDNESDAY, MAY 6 v
Tennis. *!
* Varsity vs. Notre Dame_____Here v
v THURSDAY, MAY 7 *
I* Tennis. *5*
* Plebes vs. Crafton High_____Here *S*
FRIDAY, MAY 8 *
*!* Baseball. *!*
*! Varsity vs. Penn State... ^__ *
.............................. Forbes Field *
* Tennis. *2*
*!? Varsity vs. Penn State..........Here *
* SATURDAY, MAY 9 *
* NINTH ANNUAL INTER- *
v SCHOLASTIC TRACK MEET *
I* T rack. *J
Varsity vs Geneva..................Here ->
*! Plebes vs. Indiana Normal.There *
I* Baseball. -!
*! Varsity vs. Grove City_____There <*
v Plebes vs. Bellefonte Academy
* ........................................... There ?
> Tennis. ->
Plebes vs. Westmont High.There ->
TENNIS CLUB CARDS SE
CURED FROM OVEREND
Uvieiross fl
Y
OU can pay more than $9 
or $7 for mens footwear, 
but why do it when you can 
get the latest modls, the finest 
imported and domestic Iethers 
and the best workmanship in 
John Ward Mens Shoes at 
those prices?
On Display By
M. D. T. Kirkpatrick 
at Skibo Inn 
May 8 and 9
iLVervs-bhoes
INCORPORATI!!) r
Stores in New Kork, Brooklyn, Ncw*rk and Philadelphia 'CP. Addrcis for Mail Orders, 191 Hudson rffc, New York City!
CANDIES 
ICE CREAM 
LUNCHEON 
DINNER 
6 TO 8 P. M.
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
la serving a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We invite the students to 
meet their friends in the Reymer Store.
Many of the students are at a loss 
as to what procedure is required be
fore they are allowed to play on the 
tennis court. These courts cost con
siderable in the upkeep, and it is no 
more than fair that the expense 
should fall upon those who use the 
courts. Although the amount taken 
in from dues paid to the Tennis 
club is not sufficient to cover ex
penses, it is deemed advisable to 
keep the cost to the student as low 
as possible so that many will be
come interested in the game. On 
account of the resignation of Mr. Tilbrook, Clarence Overend has been se
lected as president, with A. C. Irwin, 
treasurer. Membership cards can be 
secured at the Graduate Managers 
Office. A tabular list of rates fol
lows:
Day students from the present
time to June 15.......................$2.00
Day students and Seniors who 
Graduate this year, for the 
summer months, June 15-September 15.....................................2.00
Night students the same rates 
apply as to day students both 
from now and this summer.
Rates for Alumni, from June 
15-<September 15......................... 5.00
cult stop over second by Newman. 
Diflley handled Conrads benders in 
big league style without a slip-up, 
while the timely hitting of Newman, 
Maurer, Vogt, Difiley and Lynch was 
directly responsible for the Tartans 
runs.
The score:
Penn State.R. H. P. A. E.
Eisenhh, 2nd ............ 0 1 4 2 0
Schwrt/., ss. ............ 0 0 3 3 1
Wilson, IT......................1 2 2 0 0
McVicker, m. ............. 0 0 0 0 0
Styborski, r. . ............ 1 1 1 0 1
Hamas, 3rd ............... 0 0 1 1 0
Mairs, 3rd ............... 0 0 0 0 0
Harris, Ist ___.......... 1 2 8 3 0
Kerstetter. c. ............ 0 3 r. 1 1
Cook ........................... 0 0 0 0 0
Carnegie Tech.R. H. P. A. E.
ChristofT, lf. ............. 2 2 4 0 0
Maurer, Ist ............. 2 1 7 0 0
Newman, 2nd ............ 1 1 2 2 0
Lynch, 3rd .............. 0 1 1 4 0
Difiley, c...................... 0 1 9 0 0
Bastian, m. .............. 0 1 1 0 0
Bahr, r......................... 0 0 2 0 0
Conrad, p..................... 0 0 0 2 1
Totais ..................... 5 S 27 S 1
?Batted for Hamas in seventh.
Penn State..........021 000 0003
Carnegie Tech..........000 320 0005
Two-base hitHarris. Home run
Wilson. StolenbasesHarris, McVieker, ChristoffBase on ballsOff
Page 3, off Conrad 3. Struck outBy
Page 6, by Conrad 7. BalkConrad.
Sacrifice bunts Lynch, McVicker.
UmpireGochnauer.
A---innnnoBic
A High Class Home
has available a suite of two 
large airy and beautifully fur
nished rooms with private bath, j suitable for one or two gentle- j men; also one large and beautiS fully furnished front room with 
I bathsituated near Roup and 
| three street car lines. Address 
| 370 South Negley Avenue, Pitts| burgh.
Hire a Car--Drive It Yourself
HERTZ AND FORD SEDANS
At Less Than Taxicab Rates
FRESHMEN DEFEAT 
INDIANA NOR. 10-4
Ninth Inning Rally Scores Six 
Runs; Teamwork is Best 
Shown to Date
By doing the unexpected thing at 
the most unexpected time, the Plebes 
broke a tie that existed at the begin
ning of the ninth inning in their game 
at Indiana Normal last Wednesday, 
and finally won 10-4. It was one of 
the best games the Plebes have play
ed this season, and led on by their 
newly elected captain, R. W. Hurd, 
set a new standard of play for the 
games to come. There were no out
standing stars, but Goodlin deserves 
credit for starting the rally which 
ended, so well.
Carnegie scored first, making two 
markers in the third inning and two 
more in the fourth. Indiana tied the 
score in the eighth after they had 
scored two runs in the sixth stanza. 
These were the only innings in which 
j-luson was in hot water. Lindberg, 
be^rie doing the hurling duty for the 
teachers, batted in the clean-up posi
tion, making more hits than any of 
his team mates, or his opponents.
The plujT that won the game was a 
bunt when everybody expected a long 
sacrifice fly. Three Plebes were on 
base, one out, when Coach Robertson 
ordered this bit of strategy. Not be
ing content with trying it once, they 
continued doing it until six runs had 
been scored, and the game safely 
salted away.
Line up:
Carnegie Plebes.AhR.HP.A.E.
Mudd, 3rd .............. 410210
Cowan, cf............... 211000
Cottle, ss................ 410432
Hurd, 2nd ............ 521360
Bromley, 1st ......4111100
Hoffman, rf.......... . 512200
Taylor, 11'.............. . 421200
Goodlin, c.............. 511321
Johnson, p............. 501121
10S27144
Indiana Normal.Ab. R.HP.A.E.
Shelly, cf. ........ 300100
Bernosky, lf. .... . 411101
Ivunkle, 3rd ...... 402120
Lindberg, p............. 523142
Bush, rf................. . 200000
Salsgiver, 1st ...... 5121002
Magill, ss................-101114
Cummings, 2nd ....401110
Ketehmer, c.......... . -1011112
Earned runsC. I. T. 10, Indiana 
Normal 4. WalksOff Johnson 5, off 
Lindberg 4. StrikeoutsJohn 2, 
Lindberg 10. First base on errors 
Indiana 4, C. I. T. 7. Double plays
C. I. T. 3. Two-base hitsHurd, Hoff
man. Time2 hour, 30 minutes. Um
pireTraynor.
Central Drive Yourself System
618 Wylie AvenueGrant 9838-5050
Totals........35 -1 11 27 D 11
Strong Geneva Runners 
To Meet Plaid Saturday
The varsity track team meets 
Geneva College in the Skibo 
Bowl next Saturday afternoon as an 
added attraction to. the Interscho
lastic affair. Last yoar Geneva 
made tile trip to Pittsburgh for- the 
same event, and was beaten by Cainegie in the last few minutes of' 
the meet.
Due to the fact that Genevt lias a 
strong team this season some of the 
track men of known ability that, are 
at present playing on the baseball 
team, may try to arrange to take 
part in-the track meet.
Last week Shriver, who was with 
the baseball squad on its Eastern 
trip, returned to Pittsburgh early 
to take part in the Allegheny meet.
Eva Spencer Will Give 
Recital in Little Theater
Eva Spencer, a Senior in the De
partment of Music, will give a song 
recital in thee Little Theater of the 
College of Fine Arts next Tuesday 
evening, May twelfth, at eight-thirty 
oclock.
Miss Spencer has a very charming 
soprano voice, clear and resonant, 
with an even tone throughout her 
range. She will sing a very interest
ing program, which will bring out all 
the excellent qualities of her voice, 
and provide the audience with varity 
from the best composers.
Her accompanist is Matthew Frey, 
an accomplished musician, who is an 
expert and sympathetic pianist.
"Tartan readers who can pay five 
dollars each month (like rent) on the 
Remington Portable Typewriter will 
own It in a year. Examine one at the 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins 
Arcade.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
RAIN INTERFERES WITH * 
CONTESTS OF LAST WEEK v
THE INTERSCHOLASTIC MEET
Saturday will mark Carnegie Tocli's Ninth Annual Interscholastic track 
and field meet in the Tartan Bowl. This annual evont has come to mean 
more and more each year, so that the meet Saturday is expected to draw 
more than 650 athletes from bona fide high schools in the Tri-State district 
to the Bowl.
Think what this means. The cream of the high school athetes within a 
large radius of Pittsburgh will be the guests of Carnegie Tech. Most of these 
boys are contemplating going to college. Which college are they going vo 
select? Obviously, the one that appeals to them the most.
The point is this: We have an excellent schoolin fact, we surpass
nearly every other college along certain lines. It is our duty to take a per
sonal interest in these high school athletes, help them in every possible way 
while they are here, show them every courtesy, and incidentally, point out to 
them the advantages of attending a school like Carnegie. The results are 
bound to be forthcoming.* **** *
THE EASTERN TRIP 
The baseball team brought home the bacon on the second inva
sion of the East last week. The first two games, those against Ju
niata College and Bucknell, were cancelled on account of rain. For 
a while Saturday it looked as though the State game would have to 
be called off, but the clouds passed over and Carnegie was able to 
defeat Penn State for the first time in a major sport since the two 
institutions have been locking horns in the various sports. State 
will meet the Skibo nine in baseball at Forbes Field Friday, and if 
Conrad is right we predict that State will meet with the second re
versal. The achievement of the Tartans is all the more noteworthy 
by reason of the belief at Penn State that their baseball team is 
better this season than it has been for several years.
The victory over Penn State was fully deserved. State failed to 
hit in the pinches, when hits meant runs, while the Skibos bunched 
their hits and took advantage of every opportunity. The fielding 
of the Tartans was the best so far this year, the infield especially 
performing like veterans. The lusty and continued rooting of the 
State cheering section failed to affect the work of Captain Conrad or 
any of his men.
The battle Friday will be another hectic one.****** *
TRACK
The dual track meet with Allegheny brought, out the fact that the Tartans 
are improving steadily under the careful coaching of Guy Halferty and Howdy 
Dykeman. There is still room for plenty of improvement, but champions 
cannot be developed out of mediocre material in a few weeks. The meet 
with Geneva Saturday promisos some keen competition, as last year the 
Tartans were able only to nose out Geneva by a small margin.
The Plebes are also improving. They easily won their third successive 
meet, and hopes are entertained of giving the powerful Pitt Freslunon a 
real contest when they meet.*******
Every one of the tennis matches scheduled for last week were 
postponed because of rain. The courts were in poor condition at W. &
J. and also at Youngstown where Rayen High was to be met on Sat
urday by the Plebes.*******
The baseball team encountered snow in the mountains ubovo Hunting
don. A1 Bryant wanted to organize a party to hunt rabbits.*******
Brick, brick, who's got the brick," was a popular sport with the 
boys in Sunbury, en route to Lewisburg. .This consisted of placing 
a brick into somebodys suit case while he was not looking. Manager 
Joynt was the goat,, unknowingly carrying the brick all theway to 
Bucknell. Vogt just missed doing it by a hair.*******
Diflley, Vogt., Maurer and Conrad entertained (?) with songs on the 
way from State C'olloge to Tyrone In the bus.*******
McKinney continues to step out for1 the Tartans. He Is showing 
excellent form in the half mile.*******
BalirHow do you say "beer in German?
ConnieYou dont say it, you drink it..*******
Coach Blyth felt like a two-year-old after the game Saturday.
He was especially anxious to win from his Alma Mater.*******
Bastian will bo getting offers from the big leagues If ho continues to 
make thrilling shoo-strhiK catches. He is also hit l iny; well.______________
TENNIS TOURNAMENT | PLEBES ELECT R.W. HURD 
FOR FRESHMAN SQUAD AS BASEBALL CAPTAIN
Arnold Fink, coach of the basket, 
ball teams, has arrangod a novel 
method by which he can koep in 
touch with all possible material for 
the lined-court squad. In previous 
years, those Freshmen who did not 
make the squad, wore given the yollow slij), with the result that many 
a good man was rejected before ho 
was able to show to ad vantage. This 
year, through the untiring efforts of 
Coach Fink and Manager Young, a 
tournament has boon arranged for 
the Plebes who wore not capable of 
carrying the Skibo colors, but have 
enough ability to cause the coach to 
koep an ever watchful eye on them.
The idea of the tournament is not 
Lo win a trophy, for no cup Is at 
stake, and no worldly award is forth
coming to the winner, but the games 
are' arranged so that the Plebos do 
not lose Interest, and any man who 
shows to advantage will be given a 
chance for next year's varsity squad. 
By doing this, the coach will-be able 
to keep a close watch upon the men, 
and direct each player separately, 
with the possibility of a developed 
player in the future. The tourna
ment,yas arranged by Student Man
ager R. R. Young, calls for ten pre
liminary matches, the winners to be 
eliminated as the games progress 
When a man loses he in turn plays 
the loser of another match, and so 
on. By this method no player is 
permitted to stop, but must continue 
with the rest if he wishes to be con
sidered at all.
The first match will be played as 
soon as the weather permits. Fol
lowing is a list of the ten pairs of 
players: Johnson and Farril; Budle
and Eisenberg, Schneider and Tener, 
Russell and Stoudt, Johnson and Al
len, Montgomery and Loney, Hagan 
and Kandell, Browstein and Malone, 
Stott and Perry, Graham and Bye.
I The College 
Shop
! 461 S</2 FORBES STREET
Above Craig
! See Me For Campus 
Week Togs
I "ED" TAYLOR
The Fraternity of 
Business
Bfifdn now to form tho aeonlntlon 
nmJ habit# that will nervo yon when 
you enter the liunlne world. A bank account, imlile from the tan* 
fdblo value, furnlnh'M experience 
and contact which will operate to your advanUtf'o In later year*.
The porinnl Intereiit of Mellon officer In the financial welfare of 
depositor# l# orto of the outntnndInK characlflrlittlcn of the lniitltu- tjon. Our experience and butti
ne* Judionent aro at your aorvice. 
Capital and Surplua $12,000,000.00
"Mellon National Bank
Whllo the Freshman baseball team 
were on their trip lo Indiana Normal 
a captain was electod to load them 
In the romalndor of tholr oncountot's. 
R. W. Hurd was the player honorod 
by his toammatoH.
Hurd halls from Now ton Falls, 
Ohio, and is an Irregular Sophornoro 
In tho oloctrlcal engineering course 
at Carnegie, Before coming to Pitts
burgh he was a student at Mount 
Union College and played with the 
baseball team of that school as a 
'catcher. This position did not ap
peal to him as ho played socond baso 
with the Newton Falls iH'igh School, 
and could perform best at this posi
tion. He is regular second baseman 
on the Freshmap team here. Hurd 
is a member of tho Phi Kappa Tau 
National fraternity, but Is making 
his home at Welch Hall as Carnegie 
does not have a Phi Kappa chapter. 
He was a member of this year's 
Freshman basket ball team, being 
one of the regular forwards.
Symphony Orchestra to 
Play at Music Hall May 10
The Symphony Orchestra will give 
its first public concert of the College 
year next Sunday night, May 10, in 
Carnegie Music Hall. The orchestra, 
consisting of 35 people, including stu
dents ol both the day and the evening 
classes of the Department, of Music, 
will be directed by Professor J. Vick 
OBrien, head of the Department of 
Music. In addition to the students, 
the personnel of the orchestra will in
clude a few members of the faculty 
and the alumni of the department.
Admission will be by free tickets 
which may be obtained by sending a 
self-addressed and stamped envelope 
witha request to the Director, Col
lege of Fine Arts. Seats will be re
served for ticket holders uptH 8:0 
oclock.
Program,
1. Mozart ...........................................
..Symphony in G Minor, No, 40 
Allegro molto 
Andante
Allegretto /Monuotto)
Allegro usual
2. Tchaikovsky, Tho Nutcracker Hullo
f. Miniature Overture
II. .'Characteristic Dances
a. March
b. Dance of the Sugar Plum
Fairy
c. Russian Dance: Trepak
d. Arabian Dance
e. Chinese Dance
f. Dance of the Ml ill tons 
III. Waltz of the Flowers
3. Wagner, Overture to Tannhauser"
Old man Jup. Pluvius played 
 havoc with tho athletic teams of 
 tho Skibo during tho past woelc. 
 Altogether five scheduled eon tests wore postponed duo to 
 rain and cold weather. The Var sity baseball team was forced 
 to loaf at Juniata Collogo on 
 Thursday, on Friday, tho varsity 
 tennis and baseball teams wero 
 idle at W. & J. and Bucknell 
 respectively. Saturday was a *
 passable day in Pittsburgh, but 
 bad weather existed in Youngs town where tho Froshman ton nls team was scheduled to meet 
 Rayon High School of that 
 place, and this match had to bo 
 postponed. The varsity and -
 Freshman track teams got into 
 action at tho Tartan Bowl while *
 tho Carnogio nine wore enter- -
 taining tho Penn State team in 
 a most pleasing fashion, on tho 
 final day of tho week.
FRESHMEN TRACKERS 
OUTCLASS SHADYSIDE
The Carnegie Plobes romped away 
with an SO to 37 victory over Shadysido Academy last Saturday after
noon in Skibo Bowl. The Tartan 
Freshmen did not have to extend 
themselves any to carry off the lion 
ors, it being evident from tho first 
that a CarnoBlo victory was to bo 
expected.
Cayelll won tho dashes from a 
closely bunched Hold, crossing tho 
tapo in tho century in as good time 
as was made by tho varsity. Singles 
took tho 440 In good time, loading 
Baston of Shadysido by a wide mar
gin. in the lialw mile and the mile, 
Crawford, the Plebo captain, led the 
field with plenty to spare.
Stoolo of tho visitors hurled tho 
javelin 152 foot 5 Inches, being three 
feot hotter than the varsity distance.
Tho summary:
Freshman Track Events.
100-yard dashWon by Cayelll, 
Carnobio; McMillon, iCaruuglo, BASE 
one; Shatto, Shadyslde, third. Time, 
: 11.
220-yard dash---Won by Cayelll, 
Carnogio; Shatto, Shadysido, soc
ond; McMillon, Carnogio, third. Tlmo:24 4-5.
440-yard dashWon by Single, 
Carnogio; Baston, Shadysido, sec
ond; Flynn, Carnegie,) third. Time
: ce tun.
Half-mile-Won by Crawford, Car
nogio; Dawson, Shadysido, second; 
Dolblo, Carnogio, third. Tlmo :!:IL'.
One ml hi-Won by Crawford, Car
negie; Robinson, Shadyallo, socond; 
Davis, Carnegie, third. Tlnio5:02 3-5.
120-yard low hurdlou- Won by 
Fold, Carnogle; Hopper, Carnogio, 
socond; Matthews, Shadysido, third. 
Tlmo :1ft 1-5,
Field E/ontn.
Shot putWon by llurty, Shttrysldo; Sebastian, Carnogio, socond; 
Wood, Carnogio, third. Distance, ill) 
foot.
JavollnWon by Stoolo, Shadysido; 
Kurt/., Shadysido, second; Hopper, 
Carnogio, third. Distance -.152 loot, 
5 Inches.
DiscusWon by Sebastian, Carne
gie; Stoolo, Shadysido, socond; 
Wood, Carnogio, third. Distance 01) 
foot.
Broad JumpWon by Munroe, Carnegle; Feld, Carnegie, socond; Hurd, 
Carnegie, third. Distance10 foot. 
4 inches.
Running high Jump  Won by 
I-Ioppor, Carnegie; McGruw, Shadyside, socond; Hurd, Carnogio, third. 
Height5 feet, 5 ii.ches,
Pole vaultWon by Henry, Car
negie: MoC'reary, Carnegie, second; 
Munroe, Carnegie, third. Height8 feot.
CAMPUS COURIER" IS
INNOVATION IN FIELD OF 
CAMPUS WEEK JOURNALISM
(Continued From Page One.) 
avoided. Several checks have already 
been received from fraternities work
ing on this plan.
The Campus Courier will be deliv 
ered at. your door each morning at 
seven o'clock by a competent carrier. 
The cost of a three-day subscription is 
the same as that of a chocolate sun
dae, fifteen cents. Order the Courier 
now so that Campus Week you will 
know what is going on, as well as 
what has happened.
Campus Week without the Courier 
would be like the Arts Ball without 
costumes, tho Science Stag without 
wit and humor, or the Industrlei 
Smoker without smokes. Consequent
ly, everyone is aslced to get their 
subscription blank signed as soon as 
possible, in order to Insure themHelves a good time for the Sixth An
nual Campus Week,
CAMPUS WEEK TAGS
PUT ON SALE TODAY
(Continued ,Froin Pago One,; 
cl a) affairs of Campus Week II. Is 
urged that everyone co-operate with 
the committees In seeing that tho
PLAID TRACK TEAM 
BESTS ALLEGHENY
Tartans Defeat Meadville 
Representatives by 
70-65 Score
The Skibo track team, for the sec
ond timo in the last two years, de
feated Allegheny Collogo in tho Car
negie Bowl last Saturday afternoon. 
It w the initial dual meet of tho 
season for tho Plaid, and the victory 
of 70 to G5 was well earned. A good 
sized crowd saw tho homo team romp 
off with the honors of tho day.
The points wore equally divided in 
tho track events, each school garner
ing 3ti apiece. Carnegie piled up 
four firsts and the visitors did like
wise, It was the hammer throw 
event which enabled the Plaid to 
forgo ahead of the Moadvilleans, in 
that tho latter failed to enter any 
representatives. Consequently, Nesbit, Yoder and Bulllngor won the 
first three places lor Carnegie, bring
ing tho Skibos from 61 to 70 points.
One of the features of the meet 
iwas the handy fashion in which Mc
Kinney won tho half mile. Ray, of 
Allegheny, took the lead at tho out
set, but the Tartan runner forged to 
tho front on tho home stretch and 
broke tho tapo in a burst of speed. 
Bior, another member of tho Penn 
rolny team, finished third in this 
race.
Stultzs wide margined victories in 
the 120 high and low hurdles left 
nothing to bo desired along this line. 
Ho Hashed ton yards in tho lead at 
tho start and managed to hold this 
position to the tape. Dyke, tho 
Penn relay anchor man, won tho 
quarter mile by a spurt of speed in 
tho last fow yards, nosing out his 
teammate Kolly. Williams of tho 
visitors, was a poor third. Blanchard. 
Allegheny s crack mllor, had things 
Ills own way during tho entire mllo 
evont. Although tho race was won 
in fall* time, the Moadvlllo represen
tative crossod tho finish apparently 
as frosh as lie was at tho outsot, 
heading Captain Jack Bright by IS 
feot. Bright also took a second In 
tho two-mllo run, displaying line form 
In both ovonts.
Allegheny is roputed to have a lino 
track aggregation this sp'rlng, so that 
tho Plaid's victory may be consider
ed as forecasting a successful sea
son.
The summary:
Track Eventa.
100-yard dash Won by Williams, 
Allegheny ; Danner, Allegheny, sec
ond; Bohn, Carneglo, third, Tlmo 
:11.
220-yard dashWon by Williams, 
Allegheny; Danner, Allegheny, sec
ond; Beamon, Carnegie, third. Time 
: 24,
440-yaid dash Won by Dyke, Car
negie; Kelly, Carnogio, socond: Wil
liams, Allegheny, third. Time: 54 1-5.
Half-mile' Won by M'clvlnnoy, Carnoglu; Itay, Allegheny, second; Bior, 
Carnogio, third. Time 2:07 Jl-C.
One mile Won by Blanchard, Al
legheny; Bright, Carnogio, second;
McIntosh, Allegheny, third. Tlmo
4:42 1-5,
Two miles Won by Jones, Alle
gheny; Bright, Carnegie, socond; 
Bentley, Allegheny, third. Time  
10:82 2-ft.
J20 low hurdles -Won by Stult/., 
'Carnogle; DoVrlos, Carnogio, socond: 
Slocum, Allegheny, third. Time- : 14.
lao high hurdles--Won by Stult/., 
Carneglo; Judd, Allegheny, socond; 
Cook, Carnegie, third. Time--
:1G 4-5. ,
Field Events.
Shot putWon by Parnell, Alle
gheny; Judd, Allegheny, socond, Jack
son, Allegheny, third. Distance, 37 
feet 8 Inches.
JavelinWon by Rhodes, Carnegi; Shriver, Carneglo, second; Tornatoro, Allegheny, third. Distance 
140 feet 8 Inches.
DiscusWon by Parnell, Alle
gheny; Judd, Allegheny, second; NesIblt, Carnegie, third. Distance;- 121 
feet 1 inches.
Broad jump -Won by Bohn, Carne
gie; Judd, Allegheny, second; Rhodes, 
Carnegie, third. Distance, 20 feot 10 
Inches.
Running high jumpWon by Luty, 
Carnegie; Judd, Allegheny, , socond ; 
Goodwin, Carnegie, third. (Height, 5 
feet 7 inches.
Pole vaultWon by Judd, Alle
gheny; L. E. Smith, Carnegie, soc
ond; Tornatore, Allegheny, third. 
Height, 10 feet 9 inches.
Hammer throwWon by Ncsbit, 
Carnegie; Yoder, Carnegie, second; 
Bullinger, Carnegie, third. Distance. 
100 feet 2 inches.
Campus Week tags are sold only to 
students and alumni of Carnegie 
Tech.
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacquea School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streeta 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings Private lessons 
by appointment.
This In a School
Not a public dance hall.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa e East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MAY 5, 1925
&NAnRTL INOU
&
Special Short Course 
Offered For Metermen
Given in Co-operation With 2 
Local Power Companies
In cooperation with tho Duqueano 
Light company and tho Went Penn 
Power company, a short course for 
electric metcrmon will ho given from 
May 18 to May 28, for the special 
benefit 'of motermon In the trl-stato 
district.
Tho purpose of the course for elec
tric meter man, is to Impress the 
metermen with the Importance of ac
curato metering, to givo him a hot
ter understanding of the technical re
quirements of electric metering, to 
teach him the theory of operation, 
mothodii of testing, connecting, and 
maintenance of electric meters, and 
to acquaint him with tho latest typos 
of motors and motoring devices.
Although similar courses are given 
periodically In 23 different colleges 
or universities throughout the coun
try, Carnegie 1L the only Institution 
privileged to offer such a course this 
year In tho district covering Penn
sylvania and Ohio.
Outside of a small registration feo, 
no tuition will bo charged, and tho 
course will be open to any men engagod in electrical metering or pow
er work. Tho school In sponsored by 
the Meter Committee of the National 
Electric Light Association, and In 
planning tho program, tho Depart
ment f Kloctrlcal Equipment and 
Construction 1h having the active co
operation of representatives of tho 
Duquofine Light company and the 
West Penn Power company. The de
tails In the development of the pro
gram and the luHtructlon facili ties 
are In charge of F. C. BFORI head of 
the Department of Electrical Equip
ment and Construction; .Orville Hay, 
Superintendent, Meter and Test De
partment, Dwiuesne Light Company; 
and T. C. Plfczor, Motor Engineer, 
West Penn Power company.
Tho personnel of tho technical In
struction staff will Includo F. C. 
LFOAI W. B. Kramer and W. V. Jones, 
oC Carnegie; C. B. Wright, F. B. Pat
terson, and IT.' C. Carrington, of tho 
Duquesne Light company; and E. E. 
Sly, and L. L. Lloyd, of the West Penn 
Power company. 9'peclal lectures 
during tho course will bo given by 
representatives of a largo number of 
electrical motor and power compa
nies In all parts of tho country.
In connection with tho course, a 
manufacturers' exhibit' or motors and 
motoring devices will bo hold In tho 
Department of Electrical Equipment 
and Construction throughout the 
Woelc.
GALA ATTIRE FOR 
MARDI GRAS FOLK
No One Admitted Unless in 
Costume For Annual 
Spanish Affair
Mention has/been made of the fact 
that both costumes 'and tickets will 
bo necessary for entrance to the Mar* 
dl Gras. During previous yearn, half
hearted attempts have been made to 
carry this out but no very strenuous 
measures have boon taken to make it 
effective. . However, this year, both 
requirements will be rigidly adhered 
to, and no ono will be permitted to 
enter unless ho has both a costume 
and a ticket.
There are numerous other events 
that ono may attend at both Campus 
Week, and during the year -where cos
tumes cannot be worn, so that when 
ono has tho opportunity to dress up 
and give vent to his artistic ten
dencies, such as at tho Mardi Gras. 
It is possible that some may object 
to this on the grounds that it is too 
much trouble and that It is unneces
sary, but the nature of a Mardi Gras 
does not permit of any drab formality 
In tho absence of civilian clothes. 
Rather Is the event one of unre
strained frivolity, and joyousness, 
whore everyone is expected to have a 
most glorious time. Just a few peo
ple without costumes can spoil the 
whole spirit of tho evening. The 
alumni are earnestly requested to 
lceep tills in mind and to assist' in 
making tho Mardi Gras a decided suc
cess by coming dressed in the most 
gala attire they can find.
If any of tho alumni have not yet 
ordered their C. W. tags, they should 
do It Immediately. Not only will they 
bo required for admission to most of 
the minor events, blit they will be 
absolutely essential for entrance to 
the Mardi Gras. There will not be 
any tickets sold at tho door on Friday 
night. Anyone who has not obtained 
his ticket before this will not bo able 
to got In. In this way, no one who Is 
not a Carnegie student or graduate 
will bo able to gain admission and 
tho Mardi Gras will be a more truoly 
Carnegie affair. It Is slncoroly hoped 
that the alumni will remember this 
and that they will endeavor to got 
their tickets as soon as possible,
WOMEN HOLD SENIOR BALL 
AT UNIVERSITY CLUB FRIDAY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
in the history of Carnegie as ono of 
tho most successful Hon lor Balls OVOr 
hold, and those who attended will 
long treasure the memory of It,
The Iris whose efforts brought 
about the DYSSA3D of this hall are: 
<lraoo Muubnii, chairman, asnintod by 
Mary Spoors, Louise Boggoss. Anno 
Klir/,or, Dorothy Holimalhorst, iloso 
Morin, Isabel Sownsli, Dorothy Dia
mond, Helen Gliofiplo, and '/uhelle 
Davis.
Craig Restaurant
Tho placo whoro all tho follow 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clydo Street, Near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M. 
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
TO AWARD CUP FOR
BEST SHOW AT FAIR
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.)
a Porkor that Is an unrivalled broken 
Held runner to elude ambitious pur
suers, tho prize winning cattle that 
bask near by can rest assured that 
animal rights are well defended. 
Horses varying from blue ribbon to 
draft spoolos will bo present to keep 
a casual eye on proceedings and like 
wise to munch tho rarest thing on Lh< 
campus, "grass", Innovations in 
quadrlped designs will bo displayed, 
these revamped animals will offer a 
splendid Hold for invostlgifiSBn, for 
they will bo tho last word In Industry
andart.
Largo crowds at last years ovont 
presage mammoth numbers this year, 
but lhis will be taken caro of by a 
telephone system by moans of which 
everyone will bo dlreotod to centers 
of Immodluto Interest, and no one 
need miss any event. At tho show 
that night tho winner will hi! pre
sented tho cup.
WESTERN ASSOCIATION 
HOLDS C. W. LUNCHEONTELESCOPE
All alumni who were members of 
the Mid-West Club are requested to 
secure their tickets for tho annual 
Western Association Campus Week 
luncheon to be held In tho Commons 
on Friday, May 15, at ono oclock.
A program of music and entertain
ment has been arranged and a hoarty 
welcome Is extended to all Western
ers to attend.
Tickets can be secured by v/rlting 
A. S. Tillbrook at the Alumni Office 
or get In touch witii R. A. Bookmoyer, 
Carnegie P. O., who is chairman of 
the committee.
The organization will have a stunt 
on at the Country Fair on Saturday. 
Ali Westerners will bo Interested In 
seeing this as it is typical of Western 
life.
FINAL ARRANGEMENTS j IMPROVEMENTS IN I 
:0P .MCNF .MNGVT0N X ^ PROGRAM
ALUMNI LYRICS
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9: *15 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.  j
Young Peoples Mooting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
HER HUSBANDS WIFE WILL BE 
GIVEN BY DRAMA DEPARTMENT
(Contlnuod from Page Ono.) 
Phillip Thorno and Ben Weinblatt.
For tho remainlng weeks of the 
school year, "Smart Aleclc," "Fantas
tles and a bill of one-act plays will 
be presented by the Drama Depart
ment. "Fantasties" will be given ln 
the open air theater.
By L. D. Allshouse, Ex., '24. 
Heap of Fun.
You can say its all the bunk,
Sorta intimate Im drunk,
When I say I'm homeward bound for 
Campus Week.
But believe me. 'bunk or not,
Here's one thing I aint forgot 
Theres a heap of fun around on 
Campus Week.
Theres tli vo-de-vil-le show,
Ain't nobody calls that slow,
An the weldin' of the link into til I 
chain,
Kinda makes a guy feel proud 
Jest to know hes been allowed 
To come back an hang aroun the 
place again.
Then IiJ liafta git a girl 
An git In tli maddening whirl 
As they dance awhile before they 
crown the queen.
Go ahead an spill th news 
Ill wear out a pair of shoes 
As my ankles agitate In manner 
mean.
An th sportsyou tell em boy, 
Guoss in them theres plenty joy,
An th* sweepstakes where they pile 
up on tli curves.
Theres th Mardi Gras that night 
Whore they dress in colors blight, 
Wltli Homo tantaiizin tonic for th 
nerves.
Cant remember all there is 
But tho whole darn things a whiz,
All the youngsters an old timers will 
be thoro.
Paid my dollar for my tag,
Got my duds packed in my bag,
An* ill be on hand with gobs of
time to spare.
'Say, Id sorta like to see
You thoro too to shake with mo
When they make tho celebration hit 
tlV p'oalt.
Now, dont try to alibi 
I 'or youll find, th* same as T 
Theres a heap of fun around on 
iCainnus Week.
FOURTEEN GIRLS WILL
SERVE AS HANDMAIDS
AT FLOWER CORONATION
(Continued From Paco Ono.) 
pus Week activities. In a short 
space of two days tho burning issue 
will be solved. Carnegie will lrnvo a 
Quo on.
Voting is scheduled for noon. 
Names as tho vqters cast their ballots 
will be checked off and every effort 
made to keep everything square and 
(o prevent stuffing tho box. As usual 
girls will rule tho polls in each col
lege, and all will await (lie answer 
to the question that signs liavo de
manded, interest has required, and 
now that desire has made intense. 
Who will be Campus Queen?
Alumni, did you notice in the1 last 
issue of the Tartan the following:
1. Final Campus Week dope?
2. Requirements for Mardi Gras?
8. Alumni swim in gym pool?
4. Alumni parade after banquet?
. 5. Alumni, you should?
Only a trifle over a week until j 
Campus Week will be here in full 
Hwlng. Have you made all arrange
ments and get set for a good time?
Alumni arrangements are rounded 
out in good shape. All committees 
are busy making final arrangements 
and everything seems to point to
wards one of the best ever. Perhaps 
the slogan, "Let's Reach the Peak for 
Campus Week, will be realized.
As has usually been the case, Cam
pus Week has found the campus in 
more or less of a mess. Eut even 
though the grass on the quad and 
around the gym is not showing, the 
permanent Improvements tliat are be
ing made will be final and some time 
in the near future we should have a 
real campus.
From the North; East, West and the 
South men from many of the larger 
companies are coming to the Alumni 
Office to interview Seniors.
The following are a few of those 
who interviewed Geary during the 
last week:
W. O. Bursch from the General 
Electric Company, Lynn, Mass., and 
W. W. Nelson, representing the same 
company, but from the Schenectady 
office.
Representing the Bell Telephone 
Company was M. B. Long from the 
New York laboratories, J. L. Heyd 
from tiie Philadelphia office, D. M. 
Morris from the Cleveland office and 
H. II. Wilson from the Pittsburgh 
office.
Mr. Cleary from the Western Elec
tric and Mr. Pope from the Worthing
ton Pump Company interview a large 
number.
The American Rolling Mill Com
pany of Middletown, Ohio, was repre
sented by C. II. Murray. The White 
Motor Company of Cleveland by Mr. 
Moultrie.
From the Firestone Rubber Com
pany of Akron was Mr. Stuhler, the 
Kelly-Sprlngfleld Tire Company of 
Cumberland,' Md., Mr. Saunders. From 
the llemy Electric Company of Ander
son, Ind., was M. M. Roberts.
All the preparations have been 
made for the alumni luncheon, and 
the only remaining essential for its j 
success is that every alumnus who 
possibly can will send In his order for 
tickets now. It will be impossible to 
make reservations after May 11 since 
tiie contract will have been made 
with' the hotel and tickets will no 
longer be on sale. The price of the 
tickets is two dollars. They can be 
obtained by sending a check to G. L. 
Tillbrook at the Alumni Office.
The banquet will be held at 12:45 
on Saturday, May 16, in the Win. 
Penn ballroom. Bus service will be 
provided which will enable alumni to 
lose no time in going directly from 
the campus to the hotel and back, 
so that they will not miss any of the 
events taking place at school.
THETA TAU HONORARY
FRAT CALLS TEN MEN
(Continued from Page One.) 
tant Football Manager. He is a 
member of the Kappa Sigma Frater
nity in his Sophomore year in the 
Electrical Engineering Department.
J. F. Diffley is a catcher on the 
baseball team, a Sophomore in the 
Commercial Engineering Department, 
and a member of the Delta Tau Delta 
Fraternity.
L. C. Lustenberger is a Junior pur
suing the Mechanical Engineering 
course. He is on the track squad 
and belongs to the Delta Tau Delta 
Fraternity.
Compliments
Skibo Inn
mmimmmmmnmmmmmwmmtt
Smiles ^ back at
KBCHEttf
Oakland Savings & I
Trust Co.
Mei.-.ber Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.............
Surplus - - - - - 
Deposits, Over 
$300,000.00 
$300,000.00 y.
 - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
cs*
Hdlo Man!
Don't forgot my 
Wrigleya. Bring 
It when you call 
n nintor.
Insure wel
come with thin 
wholnaomo, SongInnting wont.
Uoo It youroolf 
whan work draga. 
It is n grout littlo 
pick-me-up.
TECHSONS TO PLAY FOR
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCE
(Continued From Pago One/ 
and should prove to be very refresh
ing and delightful.
The one rfnd only Obie Newman 
has not appeared in public for quite' 
a long time, and every one Is getting 
anxious to he%r his latest offerings 
of clever songs. A more popular 
songster never stepped on the Carne
gie campus, and his style is distinct
ly his own, everything he does is 
original.
The tax for the affair will be the 
usual $1.25, but Obie Newman, the 
Teclisons. and a bower of sweet 
spring flowers in which to dance, 
makes this price seem very low.
STUDENT COUNCIL CHOOSES 
LLOYD YODER AS PRESIDENT 
FOR COMING SCHOOL YEAR
(Continued from Pngo One.) 
representative to Athletic Council, 
junior in Drama department, Arts 
Bull and Junior Prom Committees, 
Chairman of tho .1925 Champs Week 
Vaudeville Show, and freshman odvisor are tho activities to his credit.
Dwight Boode is no loss a luminary. 
Treasurer of Industries, Industries 
Special Commlttoo, Captain of Foot
ball In 1925, mombor of Alpha Tau, 
Druids, and .Delta Skull honorarios 
and tho Kappa Sigma fraternity are 
ilio activities.
J. A. Ropp, Arts treasurer, Sigma 
Epsilon Phi. two years a student 
council mombor, Is tho 1925 Treasur
er of tho Student Council.
Josephine Day of Marga rot Morri
son. elected to the secretarial posi
tion, was on tho cominitte of tho noubudget organization and tho secretary 
of All Fools Day Committee.
Too Many Knocking
The reason some people dont h*ar 
opportunity knocking Is b :iuse they 
are nt It themselves.
PASTEBOARDS FOR CARNEGIE'S 
MUSICAL COMEDY THRILLER 
ARE ON 6PEN SALE THIS 
WEEK.
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
have been given; we have no liosltancy In prodlctlug that the show 
would be a success without any cast 
at all. The spoclalty dance numbers 
by for the best ever presented 
at Carnegie, and will surpass most 
which are seen in the professional 
show.
Tho cast Is ready for Its last final 
lash for perfection. Under tho able 
direction of Hubert Osborne, the 
paillette scones are becoming really 
patriotic, and tho comody scones are 
veritublo screams. Youll never ap
preciate how bashful n boy can be 
until you see Ohio Newman as the 
freshman: nor how villainous a hu
man can act until you see Herb Polesle in his famous blackmailing act.
Can you imagine Harry Morvis 
really falling In lovo?
Can you imagine Ann Lurie as a 
winsome miss front the South?
Can you feature Phil Thorne as
anything but a dignified chaperon, or 
Elizabeth Sowersby as anyone but his 
wife?
Could Vern Halden act th part of 
a rought and tough burglar, fresli 
from Slug Sing.
Can you imagine a thrilling scene 
where a mysterious person in a suit 
of armor climbs up a rope to the 
window of the room where the hero 
is keeping watch over the treasure?
But dont bother imagining it. Get 
your tickets early, so that when Collegiately Speaking opens at the 
Syria Mosque on Saturday, May 16, 
at 8:30 you will be sitting in your 
seat with- your best girl tlirillingly. 
holding your arm, and see these 
things for yourselfAlumni to Have a Special 
Place of Meeting on Mardi 
Gras Night
1920 Tennis Team to 
Compete During C.W.
Champions Will Aga n Play 
on the Home Courts
iDuring the past' year criticism has I 
been collected and studied by the j 
Alumni Office and the General Cam
pus Week Committee. Some of the j 
criticisms made could not well be | 
called logical, but in many cases I 
they were fair and as a result action 
has been taken to better the existing ; 
conditions. The criticism and action 
taken as a result in each case is given 
below.
1. THAT THE ALUMNI HAVE 
HAD NO PLACE IN THE PAST TO 
CONGREGATE AND TO RENEW 
OLD SCHOOL FRIENDSHIPS.
As a result of this criticism many 
things have been done.
a. An Alumni Tennis Team has 
been organized. This team will com
pete with the Varsity on Saturday 
morning, May 16, 1925. Any alum
nus who is interested in this activity 
may get the dope "PERSONAL by 
writing to Edward F. Hirsch, E., 20, 
care of West Penn Power Company, 
West Penn Power Building? Pitts
burgh, Pa.
>b. The new swimming pool has 
.been secured for the men and women 
alumni for parties. The women have 
the pool on Friday afternoon from 
3:00 p. m. until 6:00 p. m., and the 
men have it from 10:00 a. m. until 
12:00 noon Saturday.
2. THAT THE ALUMNI DURING 
THE PAST CAMPUS WF.EKS 
HAVE BEEN-GIVEN VERY LITTLE 
ATTENTION. AND THAT CAMPUS 
WEEK WAS PRIMARILY A STU
DENT FUNCTION.
The following things have been 
done to remedy this condition:
a. The Alumni Office has moved 
its headquarters to the porch of the 
Library Hut on Woodlawn avenue. 
Someone will be there every minute 
to register returning alumni; take 
messages for classmates who also 
may be there; to aid alumni in lo
cating friends; to give information 
concerning events on the program; 
and to be at the alumnis disposal 
in order to aid them in any way pos
sible.
b. Reuning classes '08, '09, '10, 
'11 register separately so that at a
CAMPUS WEEK PROGRAM
THURSDAY, MAY 14
10:00 A. M........................................................................... Vaudeville
1:00 P. M...................................................................... Qualification
2:00 P. M.......................................Tennis, Carnegie vs. Bethany
3:00 P. M........................................................Kaper of the Kilties
3:30 P. M......................................................Girls' Baseball Game
8:30 P. M............................................................ Coronation Dance
12:00 P. M................................Coronation of the Campus Queen
FRIDAY, MAY 15
9:00 A. M.......................................................... Girls Sweepstakes
9:30 A. M........................................ Interfraternity Sweepstakes
10:30 A. M...................................Baseball, Bucknell vs. Carnegie
1:00 P. M..............................................Tennis, Carnegie vs. Pitt
Girls Archery Contest
2:00 P. M........................................R. O. T. C. Parade and Drill
2:00 P. M............................................Track Meet, Ohio Weslyan
2:00 P. M......................................................R. O. T. C. Formation
3:00 P. M....................................................Girls Swimming Meet
0:00 P. M.......................................................... Womens Banquet
9:00 P. M........................................................................ Mardi Gras
SATURDAY, MAY 16
10:00 A. M..............................................................Girls Volley Ball
10:00 A. M....................................................................Alumni Swim
10:30 A. M................................................................. Alumni Tennis
12:45 P. M.................................................................. Alumni Lunch
1:30 P. M................................................................... Country Fair
2:00 P. M................................................................... Girls Tennis
8:30 P. M................................................ Collegiately Speaking
The Alumni Office have succeeded 
in getting in touch with the follow
ing alumni in regards to the tennis 
team that will compete in the alumni-varsity tennis matches during 
Campus Week: Connie Schwartz,
Tweets Davis, Jack Batty, Phil Mar
shall, Schuckman, Wolfe, Jim OCon
ner, Schmertz, Toots Davis, Steve 
Stockslager, Copley, and Harry S'emor who is to be coach of the team. 
Some of these men have already sig
nified their willingness to play, and 
it is expected that the rest of them 
will soon fall in line.
It is hoped that it will be possible 
to get the entire 1920 tennis team 
together. This was the team that won 
the Tri-State Championship so easily 
in that year. It might be added here 
that the Carnegie tennis teams also 
won this same championship in 1921, 
1922, 1923. Eddie Hirsch, alumni 
manager of the tennis events, says: 
The prospects, for getting the whole  
1920 team together and giving the 
alumni a chance to see them in ac
tion just as they were five years 
ago, are very bright.
The alumni-varsity tennis matches 
will be held on the courts beside 
Margaret Morrison, Saturday morn
ing, May 16, at ten-thirty. These 
courts are rapidly being rounded into 
shape, and the players can count on 
being able to play at their best un
less disturbed by old man Pluvius. 
With favorable weather conditions, 
the onlookers should be given a sight 
worth seeing.
Alumni! Final Campus Week Dope
Campus Week Tags............................$1.00 each
Alumni Luncheon Tickets................$2.00 each
Dormitory Rooms (Men or Women) . . .50 night
Musical Comedy Tickets (Syria Mosque)
1st Floor Tickets....................
1st Five RowsFirst Balcony . 
RemainderFirst Balcony . .
1st Five RowsSecond Balcony
$1.75 each 
$1.75 each 
$1.50 each 
$1.50 each
Important Notice!
No order will be valid or accepted unless
a. Self-addressed, stamped envelope is enclosed 
with order.
Made before May 11, 1925.
Checks and money orders are made payable 
to G. L. Tilbrook, Treasurer.
b.
Please Help the Committee fey Ordering AT ONCE!
glance anyone will be able to see 
just who has returned from his or 
her class.
c. Arrangements have been made 
with the management of the Carnegie 
Inn and the Carnegie Commons to 
have tables reserved for the alumni 
only during all of Campus Week. This 
will give alumni a real alumni eat
ing quarters.
d. Arrangements have been made 
with the Dean of Men and the Dean 
of Women to have dormitory rooms 
for alumni who desire to stay on the 
campus. The price of the rooms is 
$ .5(J a night. Reservations may be 
made through G. L. Tilbrook, Alumni 
Office, alonpr with reservations for 
the Alumni Luncheon, Campus Week 
Tags, and the Show. See notice else
where in this issue, or consult your 
reservation post card.
e. The Mens Club Room in the 
New Gym is opan during the entire 
Campus Week for men to meet their 
friends. Just ask about it at Alumni 
Headquarters when you register on 
May 14. <it; the. Sixth Campus Week.
3. THAT MARDI GRAS' ALWAYS 
HAS HAD TOO MANY OUTSIDERS 
PRESENT AND IN A LARGE MEA
SURE HAS LOST ITS CARNEGIE 
SPIRIT.
The following plan has been inau
gurated to prevent this condition this 
year.
a. Students are allowed two Cam
pus Week Tags. No more can be 
secured as each students registration 
card will be punched as the tags are 
sold.
b* Alumni may secure Campus 
Week Tags through the Alumni Of
fice only. The sale closes on May 11 
at 5:00 p. m. This means that out
siders will not be able to buy tickets 
at the dance hall doors the night of 
Mardi Gras.
4. THAT THE MARDI GRAS IS 
A STUDENT FUNCTION AND 
THAT ALUMNI CANNOT PARTICI
PATE AS THEY MIGHT.
Concessions made in order that 
alumni may get together at the Mar
di Gras.
a. Half the Union has been reserv
ed for alumni dancing.. This means 
that alumni will have a place to go 
to exchange their dances and to look 
for classmates.
b. The Faculty Club Room has 
been set aside for the alumni as a 
lounging room where they may re
tire and chat between dances and at 
their leisure.
Alumni! One thing more! Re
member that the Campus Week 
Committee is working hard for 
the interests . of the alumni. It de
sires that each Old Grad feels that 
Campus Week is for him and that the 
student body is Here only to aid the 
alumni in enjoying themselves. The 
Campus Week Committee is anxious 
to receive constructive criticism so 
that Campus Week this year may be 
a bigger and better alumni affair than 
ever before.
Classes of '08, 09, 10, 11. Have 
yoji read the alumni roster and com
municated with your old "Campus 
Buddies. If not, do so at once and 
make out your program for Campus 
Week, May 14, 15, 16. They will be 
glad to know that you are going to 
be back for the Sixth Campus Week.
ALUMNI! ONE THING MORE! 
REMEMBER ONLY UNTIL MAY 11 
FOR RESERVATIONS FOR CAM
PUS WEEK, SO MAKE YOUR RE
SERVATIONS TODAY. DONT DE
LAY AND THUS .CAUSE THE 
ALUMNI COMMITTEE EXTRA 
WORK AND RUN THE CHANCE OF 
SECURING POOR SEATS FOR THE 
MUSICAL COMEDY. COLLEGIATE
LY SPEAKING." MAIL YOUR OR
DER FOR RESERVATIONS TODAY. 
NOW.
ALL BACK FOR 6 C. W.
Hasty Curb Seeker
Our language changes. Pedestrian 
I once meant one who walks. Now it 
I means one who runs and jumps. 
( Columbia Record.
