FOOTBALL DANCE
SATXJEDAY
UNION8:30-12:00'atnigte Prtan
STUDENT TICKETS 
NOW 
ATHLETIC OFFICE
VOL. XX NO. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1925
PLEBES MA YMany Faculty Members Receive MITCHELL, NERN NOW TRY OUT Promotion to Fill Recent Vacancies PL EBSM
FOR TARTAN
Eight-Week Course Offered 
for those Interested in 
Journalism
STRAGGLERS TO
BE ELIMINATED
Plebes Interested Should Reg
ister at Tartan Office 
Soon
The Tartan offers an eight-weelc's 
try-out, beginning today, for all 
Plebes who are interested in journal
istic activities. Freshmen who dur
ing that interval display sufficient 
aptitude in the work to warrant con
tinuation of their efforts will be taken 
into the Tartan personnel. Others 
will be dropped, early enough in the 
year that their careers will not be 
completely blasted.
All applicants will serve a regular 
apprenticeship in both reportorial and 
managerial work. Since a thorough 
knowledge of all departments of the 
Tartan is essential to the intelligent 
staff assistant;^ the newcomers-will be 
shifted about, receiving responsibility 
upon proving worthy of it.
As the work is quite exacting, the 
applicant must have ranked high in 
scholarship in his preparatory studies. 
Experience in journalistic work, how
ever, is not only unnecessary but may 
even prove a draw-back at the be
ginning. Applicasts must be willing 
to suffer considerable personal incon
venience and to expect no definite 
emoiutions for a long time.
To a gifted few the Tartan soon be
comes an all absorbing hobby. 
Meeting notables and officials, inter
viewing deans and directors, report
ing news events and unearthing scan
dals, gives them a broad outlook not 
only upon college events but even 
upon the wider aspects of life that 
th ordinary student does not infringe 
upon nor understand till long after 
graduation.
It is to instill in its staff an appre
ciation of the worth while and the 
ability to distinguish between bom
bast and frankness, self-interest -and 
common interest, that the Tartan 
labors, and for this reason the mate
rial must be carefully chosen.
Those who are willing to stake their 
ego against a possible disappointment, 
should register- at the Tartan Office, 
Room 12 Industries, any noon this 
week between 12:30 and 1:30.
MANY IMPROVEMENTS IN 
PRINTING DEPARTMENT
A number of changes have been 
made in the Printing Department 
which should increase the efficiency 
of that part of Carnegie as well as 
boost the course throughout the coun
try.
Mr. Hartman who is assistant to 
the President is acting temporarily as 
head of the department. A number of 
changes have been made in the fac
ulty. Mr. Martin has been made Head 
Instructor. Professor Garnet still re
tains his place as Head of the Fine 
; Printing Department. Theodore 
Misch, a graduate of Carnegie in 
Printing '25 has been placed in charge 
of the Press work. Mr. Misch is ex
ceptionally well suited to the position, 
having had eight years of practical 
experience previous to attaining his 
degree. Mr. Jerome McCracken,, who 
is also a formei- student of Carnegie 
will be in charge of - typography in 
place of Mr. Drummey who will have 
the machine composition end under 
his care.
The printing department did a great 
deal of school printing during the 
summer. This is tho first time in the 
history of the school that the depart
ment has done work for the institu
tion. The school catalogue will be 
printed by the printing department 
next year. This work will start 
about Christmas time.
A great deal of new equipment has 
ityaen. in/Stalled during the summer, 
notably linotype equipment valued at 
(Continued on Page Two.)______
The promotion of four members of 
the faculty to become either heads 
of departments for next year is an
nounced by President Thomas S. 
Baker of outstanding importance in 
the list is the appointment of Fred 
F. McIntosh, Associate Professor of 
Metallurgical Engineering to be Pro
fessor and Acting Head of the De
partment of Mining and Matallurgical 
Engineering. This app^ntment is to 
fill the vacancy caused by the death 
of Prof. Fred Crabtree.
Professor McIntosh has been a 
member of the faculty at Carnegie 
since 1906. He is a graduate of Har
vard where he received his B. S. de
gree in 1903 and his degree as Metal
lurgical Engineer in 1905.
Other important promotions an
nounced for th. year of 1925-1926 are: 
Dr. May Schoen, Associate Professor 
of Education and Psychology to be 
Head of the Department of Education 
and Psychology; Dr. Bartow Griffiss, 
Associate Professor and Acting Head 
of the Department of Industrial Eco
nomics, to be Head of the Depart
ment; W. Frank Hitchens, Associate 
Professor of Architecture to be Pro
fessor and Acting Head of the Depart
ment of Architecture.
Among other faculty promotions for 
next year are the following: Samuel 
E. Dibble, from Assistant Professor 
of Heating, Ventilation and Sanita
tion to Associate Professor of Build
ing Construction; Roy B. Ambrose, 
from Assistant Professor of Power 
Plant Operation to Associate Profes
sor of Machinery Production; Glendinning Iveeble, from Assistant Pro
fessor of Music to Associate Profes
sor of Music and Secretary of the 
College of Fine Arts; Theodore Vieliman, from Instructor in Drama- to As
sistant Professor; Dr. J. G. Morehead, 
from Assistant Professor of Graphic's 
to Associate Professor of the Depart
ment of Architecture; Glen U. Cleeton. from Instructor of Psychology to 
Assistant Professor of Education and 
Psychology; Edwin G. Olds, from In
structor of Mathematics to Assistant 
Professor; Dr. (Harry Seitz, from In
structor of Plisyical Chemistry to As-, 
sistant Professor of Chemical Engi
neering; Miss Virginia M. Alexander, 
from Assistant Professor of Costume 
Economics to Associate Frofessor of 
Applied Art, and Miss Mary D. Heilig, 
from Assistant to Instructor of Biol-^ 
ogy.
STUDENT DIRECTORY 
TO APPEAR SOON
R.O.T.C. RESTRICTED 
IN SIZE OF UNIT
Tri-Publications to Sponsor 
This Years Edition'of 
Guidebook
Orders from War Department 
Prevent Increase in Local 
Roster
VALUABLE TO PLEBES
Within three weeks the Student Di
rectory for 1925-1926 will appear on 
the campus. The Directory will con
tain the name of each student now 
registered at Carnegie, his class, 
course, home address, Pittsburgh ad
dress, and telephone number. It will 
also list the addresses and telephone 
numbers of the mens and womens 
dormitories and of the fraternity 
houses.
To make the new directory more 
convenient as a student guide the size 
and shape will be changed. Together 
with the Student Handbook the Stu
dent Directory will form a reference 
unit of value to every student.
If you are unable to recall [the 
names of the old students or to re
member the names of the new ones a 
Student Directory will aid you, and 
may . save embarrassing moments. 
With so many new people on the cam
pus the need for such a directory is 
greater- than ever. Upperclassmen 
and Plebes get acquainted! For that 
"lost assignment or "data a Student 
Directory will be invaluable.
The publication of the directory is 
in the hands of the Tri-Publications 
staff, with Vincent Smith in charge. 
The necessary data is now being 
gathered from the registnws records. 
The price will probably be the same 
as last yearfifty cents. If enough 
advertising material is secured, how
ever, the price may be lower. Those 
interested in securing advertisements 
should call at the Publications Office, 
room 5-A Industries, between 11:30 
and 1:30.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS BAR 
MORE THAN HALF
Of the 232 Carnegie students who 
took the entrance examination on 
Sept. 10, 11, 12; 35 per cent have 
placed the hazards of their school ca
reer behind them and are headed 
down the clear track for a successful 
school year.
The entire personnel of the freshman 
and varsity football squads is eligible 
to play. Those who had to tackle the 
entrance, exams, put the football field 
determination into their studies and 
exams. From the latest reports, the 
exams have been stopped and every 
member of both teams is on the way 
to the high scholastic attainment.
From registration figures, there are 
695 students in the combined Fresh
men class. This exceeds the Fresh
men class of lat year by 59. Margaret 
Morrison and Arts school are filled to! 
capacity. M. M. school having 16 
Freshmen  and Arts 225. Engineer
ing and Industries are about normal 
with a registration of 309. Total reg
istration of Freshmen is expected to 
exceed 750.
35 VACANCIES REMAIN
For the first time since R. O. T. C. 
was started at this Institution tho 
War Department has issued orders 
that prevent an increase in the size of 
the unit. In September of 1924 the 
R. O. T. C. numbered 46 seniors and 
49 juniors or a total of 95 upper class
men; and 97 sophomores and 169 
freshmen or a total of 266 in the basic 
course. Tho War Department has 
ordered that the number enrolled this 
year shall not exceed 95 in the ad
vanced course and 266 in the basic 
course.
All members of the threo upper 
classes who have'not already done so 
are urged to report immediately to 
the Military Department, Room 229, 
Industries, and make certain that 
their names are enrolled on the roster 
of the R. O. T. C. Until the number 
of men from the three upper classes 
who are returning to the R. O. T. C. 
is known, the number of Freshmon 
that can be enrolled cannot ho exactly 
determined. It is estimated that 
about 35 vacanicies exist at present in 
the Freghmon enrollment.
As was done last yoar for the first 
time, Sophomores returning to the R. 
O. T. C. aro allowed to drop six units 
of P. T. arid one nl'no-unlt course anti 
substitute fifteen units of R. O. T. C. 
This elective privilege permits many 
men to continue R. O. T. C. without 
additional burden.
Rifle Marksmenship is schoduled to
HATCHET BURIAL ENDS
THISTLE STAFF
Junior Printer Editor-in-Chief 
of Annual, Music Student 
Business Manager
ALICE BIBBLETT IS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR
Dowling, Brown, Hoch, Carr, 
Weil Hold Chief Staff Jobs 
on New Year Book
Campus Library Establishes
Rules For Coming School Year
Tho Library of Garnegio Institute 
of Technology, better known us tho 
"Hut,* which is now opon daily to 
students, announces tho following 
rulos tuul regulations for tho school 
yoar of 1926-36:
Hours Open9-9, Xtondny to Thurs
day,
Horns op>en9-5, Friday and Satur
day.
Special Holiday schedules aro al
ways posted in advance.
US OF BOOWa  "Reserve*' 
books are kept back of tho lending 
desk and aro issued for use in tho 
room only for a period hot exceeding 
two hours. If such books aro taken 
out of the library, students responsible 
aro officially reported. Howevor, they 
may be borrowed from S:00 p. m. to 
9:30 a. m., or from 4:00 Saturday to 
9:30 Monday. A fine of five cents an 
hour overtime will bo charged fol
iate return.
Certain other books may be borrow
ed for three days or one or two 
weeks. A fine of 2 cents a day over
time will bo charged for their late 
return.
Tho library will borrow any book
MUSICAL CLUBS TO 
HAVE NEW LEADERS
Signor Scalzo and Mr. Reb
stock Will Direct Glee and 
Instrumental Club
FIRST MEET SUNDAY
Dean Green Voices Disapproval of
Smoking Among College Women
The Thistle Board will bo piloted 
during the ensuing year by Nelson P.
Mitchell and Allan V. Nern in the 
capacities of Editor-in-Chief and Busi
ness Manager, assisted by a Bparkling 
array of Juniors who will serve as 
Editors and Managers of the various 
depnrtmeuts of the . Carnpgie year 
book.
The new Editor-in-Chief, popularly 
knowi^ as Mitch, is a student in the 
department of printing, an Alpha Tau 
Omega, pledged tO' Delta . S'kull and 
Pi Delta Epsilon, plays violin in tho 
Instrumental Club, takes care of tho 
finances of the Junior Class in In
dustries and of the Graphioa Club, and 
in the spring his energies are direct
ed toward filling a job as first assist
ant tennis manager. Last year Mitch
ell proved to bo a real worker as 
photographic editor and with his 
knowledge of printing should turn out 
the 1926 Thistle In an unsurpassed 
style.
Allan V. Nern, the business mana
ger, studies voice in the department of 
music. He is a member oL' tho Woodlawn Club and belongs to tho Clef 
Club, tho musical honorary. A1 is also 
first assistant manager and soloist of 
the Musical Clubs, a track man, Is oh 
the Tri-Publications staff and a Nows 
Editor of tho Tartan.
Alice K. Ribblott, a popular Junior 
in Margaret Morrison, won tho olectlon as Associate Editor. Sho Is Prosldent of her class and Is vory actlvo 
along many linos, Sho should bo a 
very valuable assistant to tho chlof.
Thu Treasurer is Joseph 11. Dowling, 
a machinery production Junior. Joe 
Is a Woodlawn Club man, and first 
assistant manager of Basketball.
Stewart L. Brown is tho advertis
ing manager of tho year book. Stow 
is a well known mombor of the Archi
tecture department and belongs to tho 
Delta Upsilon fraternity.
Etan I-Ioch, a member of Delta Tau 
Delta^ is the sales managor. Charles 
10. Craw is Senior editor, a mombor 
of PI Kappa Alpha, aiul a plodgo to PI 
Delta Epsilon. The fraternity editor Is 
Donald Davidson, a Sigma Alpha Ep
silon man. Johnnie Carr will handle 
tho Traditions section. He Is a mom
bor of Beta Theta Pi, Druids, and a 
plodgo to Delta Skull. Tho organiza
tion will ho handled by Sam Well, a 
mombor of Beta Sljnna Rho, and a 
news editor on The. Tartan.
Tho art work, in tho .1920 Thistle 
should he especially good with Ed 
commence next week. The first I Ebcrman and Grace Glonnon appoint'
(Continued on Page Two.) by the Art Department. Or special
______________________ I Interest Is the Athletic section to ho
handled by Bill Williams, a member 
'of Kappa S'igma.
Ali fi apc UflQTIT ITT EC I Already over a hundred subacri] -1ALL L/LAjj llvJ 11 LI 1 It J ! tlons have been roceived, and work i.i |
 __________ | well on its way on many department!! | ---------------
of the book. Prospects look bright Tomorrow night In tho Knights of 
Although the Burial of the Hatchet fOV a very'successful edition of tin1. J Columbus hall, Fifth and Belloflold 
symbolism ending the open liostili- year book. avenue, the Newman Club will hold
ties between the Sophomore and the I------------------------th% " roceptton lor the Oatllo\\tt \t t lie students of the colleges in (lie
I< reshmen was postponed from Tues ! WOOCllaWil ClU b OWi^ Mttxburgh ,lltrict. 
day to Wednesday because of rain, j All the Catholic student. ot Car
the enthusiasm of the spectators was Hf Ppflfpr A VP HOITIP no,?ie are *nvlte(1 to attend and special 
not lessened in the least n VL, HUlliu arrangements have been made to take
The Plebe warriors, led on by their j --------------' re al! uifccompanlod1 1 The Keystone Collegians, one of tne
not in its collection, from Carnogio 
Library.
All magazines aro considered1 roforonco material and are not usually 
allowed to be borrowed for outsido 
use.
USE OF LIBRARYStudents aro 
no allowed to talk loud In tho library, 
nor to act in any way disturbing to 
other readers.
However, it is hoped that they will 
feol that library rosourcos aro their 
to use freoly.
Tho library staff is ready at all 
times to answer questions, and to 
give any desired help.
ARTS BRANCH! LIBRARYA Spe
cial collection consisting of fine 
books and plates on architecture, 
sculpture, painting, design, stage
craft, costumo and allied arts, is 
housed in the College of Fine Arts. 
It is a branch of Carnogio Institute 
of Technology library and its re
sources are for tho use of all stu
dents of Curnogie Institute of Tech
nology.
Hours Open9 to 9, Monday to Fri
day; 9 to 12, Saturday.
Most of tho material In tho collec
tion is for reference use only, and 
may not be borrowed.
Carnogio Musical Clubs, tho big
gest nou-athletlo activity on tho cam
pus, will hold their first mooting at 
2:30 i). m. noxt Sunday afternoon at 
tho Union.
Tho Musical Clubs havo beon vory 
fortunato In securing tho services of 
two well-known directors Signor Scal
zo will direct tho Instrumental Club, 
and Charlos A. Robstock will bo In 
chargo of tho Glee Club.
Signor Scalzo needs no Introduction 
to the older men on tho Campus as ho 
has boon director of tho Instrumental 
Club in former years. Mis work has 
boon extremely satisfactory and It Is 
assured that ho will put forth a fine 
aggregation this yoar. Ho Is a man ot 
wide musical experience and possess
es and ability to direct, tlmt makes 
work tinder his baton very onjoyablo.
Charles A. Robstock In well known 
In the Pittsburgh musical circles. Ho 
has boon organist and choir man ter 
at tho Saint. Andrews Church In East 
Liberty for the past ton years. Prof. 
Robstock Is also Instructor of Music 
In tho Goorgo Westlnghouso High 
School.
Ile Is quito confident that ho can 
build a good Gloo Club this year out 
of tho splendid matorlul at hand,
Goorgo I. LoBnron, manager of tho 
Musical Clubs Is at present working 
on the concerts for tho year. There 
will bo a number of long trips, as 
well as short trips to nearby commun
ities Tor tho concerts at tho beginning 
(Continued on Page Throe.)
NEWMAN CLUB WILL 
HOLD DANCE TOMORROW
FIRST OF FOOTBALL 
DANCES SATURDAY
Carnegian Orchestra to Play 
 Dancing 8:30 to 12:00 
in t.ie Union$1.25
C. PROCTOR IN CHARGE
Splendid New House
brave and noble Chief, Don M6Clure, j Carnegie Local 
carried fear to the hearts of the audi
ence by their war-dance, by their 
weird cry, their tuneful chants, and 
fierce looking make-up. In the midst 
of their^more or less peaceful camp
fire, they were interrupted by the wild 
cries of an attacking force. A great 
hand-to-hand struggle ensued?* notable 
because of the commotion created and 
because no one was injured in spite 
of the fierceness of the struggle.
Purchases .best orchestras in Pittsburgh, lmvo 
i bean secured for the evening, and 
j the beat dance in the social history of 
the Club is expected, 
not only the j Next Sunday afternoon the firstThe Woodlawn Club, 
oldest fraternity on the campus, ac- meeting of the club will be held In 
cording to records, but a local that has j cathedral High School. At this time 
steadily maintained a high standard j the program for the year will be anwith its colleagues at Carnegie, has nounced, and plans will be made for 
come to one of the goals of every the theatrical and athletic activities 
fraternity, the ownership of a perma- and for the initiation of new members, 
nent home. Located at 4817 Center j The Newman Club is national in 
avenue, where Devonshire street J scope, and taken as members, men 
would have cut into it if the street had , and women, college students.
Hostilities were suspended -for a-: been extended, a twelve minutes walk j Business meetings are held on every 
while as the Senior Chief, Hardie Al- j from the campus, and in close prox- \ second and social meetings every
bright, pleaded for peace. The terms imity to the best residential section j fourth Sunday of the month. The
were drawn up, accepted by both sides ; f Pittsburgh, the East End, the new [ gymnasium in Cathedral high school
and delegates were appointed to car- house meets the needs of conven-j jH available for basketball and for
ry the hatchet to its burial place. fence and desirability very acceptably. ! dancing on Wednesday nights
Concerning the problem of smok
ing, 1 am in sympathy with the reg
ulation which states that it is not 
allowed in the dormitories or on the 
premises, is the assertion of Miss 
Mary Watson Green, Carnegie's new 
Dean of Women. Dean Green has 
beon confronted with this question at 
numerous other institutions where 
she has served, and has found this 
the only practical solution.
Dean Green says, I am a strtyig 
believer in high ideals for college wo
men. They are looked up to by their 
younger sisters and companions, who 
copy their mannerisms and habits to 
a great extent. The influence of the 
college woman seeps into high 
school, and there the college girl sets 
the standards of the younger genera
tion.
College has as its duty the foster
ing of a four-fold development in the 
students, namely mental, physical, 
moral, and spiritual growth. The col
lege woman is trained' for leadership, 
and these qualities must all be em
bodied in a real leader. If one Is to 
spend four years at college and not 
grasp the benefits of such develop
ments, then those four years can be 
marked down as a loss in the book of 
life. College has no right to take 
four years from the already small 
span of three score and ten, for this 
stage of adolescence Is very impor
tant in the development of the Indi
vidual.
College must build and give to so
ciety the best that it can produce. 
The cigarette smoking girl is not 
really the be$t product of an institu
tion of higher learning, so smoking 
(Continued on Page Three.)
As the delegates attended to their j 
task, a mighty defiant yell reached 
their ears. An attacking hosL of Soph
omores braves, following their chief 
Bob Pike, rushed the camp and one of 
their number- carried the hatchet from 
Its resting place, winning the coveted 
prize for the Sigma Nu Fraternity.
Due to a recent zoning law whichthroughout the school year. AL pre
sent Carnegie holds the basketball 
championship.
now excludes fraternities from pur
chasing in the Forbes street and Moorwood avenue districts, tile Woodlawn 
Club turned to Center avenue as the j MEETING OF EPISCOPAL 
only choice for a permanent location, j STUDENT8 FRIDAY, SEPT. 25
a district which seems destined to be- j -------------
come the new Carnegie fraternity lo-  on Friday, Sept. 25, at 1:00 p. m.,
Y. M. C. A. WILL CASH CHECKS 
WHICH DO NOT EXCEED $10.00
cation, if one may Judge by the recent |n Room 107 In the College of Fino, 
migrations to that district. Arts, there will be a mass meeting or
The house was built In 1005, when all episcopal students on the CarContinuing their custom of aiding 
the students in all affairs, the Y. M. C. 
A. has decided to enter the financial 
field and will until further notice cash
substantiality and quality Of materials 
were prime considerations. It Is of 
usual square design, of red face brick, 
with a good size porch and a drive
leading up to a two car brick garage,
student checks. The only provision j The first floor contains a large ball, a
being that they do not exceed ten \ music room, library, dining-room,
dollars. This will enable the students breakfast-room. kitchen, and a cloakto enjoy banking privileges on the j room. The second floor has four I the purpose of the Whitehead Club,
campus. | study rooms with tv/o baths, while on arid to welcome tho new students on
The office will be open at noon on the third floor Is the large club room j the Campus. All Episcopalians are 
Monday, Wednesday and Friday to j with two smaller rooms and bath. urged to turn out for this mass meettransact business with all who come j The Woodlawn Club was founded I Ing, but the freshmen especially are
to seek money for ther checks. , (Continued on Page Three.) assured of a hearty welcome.
negle Campus, This meeting In be
ing held under the auspico of the 
Whitehead Episcopal Students Club.
The meeting will be a very short 
one, probable not lasting more than 
fifteen or twenty minutos, Its pur
pose Is to bring all tho Episcopal 
students together In order to explain
Tho first of till seasons football 
dances will be hold Saturday evening, 
September 2G, In tho Union. Tho Curnoglnns, of "Sod Buster fame will 
furnish tho music and tho tax will 
bo $1.25 per couple.
The; football dancos this yoar will 
start ono woolc bqforo tho opening 
game, and will continue throughout 
tho ontiro season, This series of 
dances last, yoar aro romomborod as 
the most enjoyable feature of tho first 
semesters social program.
Cary Proctor Is in charge of this, 
tho first, of tho dances, aud In engag
ing the Carneglans, Carnegie's nowost 
and most, popular orchestra, ho Joels 
Kuro that all Carnogio folk will wan
der toward the Union on Saturday as 
tho best place In Pittsburgh to spend 
tho evening, Last Saturday at tho 
Sod Musters dance, tho Carneglans 
scored a tremendous sucoasn, and If 
tholr playing continues lo be of tho 
same standard, the social season will 
heartily welcome this now organiza
tion.
Although the football season opens 
formally with tlio Thiel game on Oc
tober 8, Carnogio students may in
augurate It a. wook early, In spirit at 
least, by ilLLondnnco a|, Saturday's 
dance.
GENERAL A88EMDLY IN MUSIC
HALL NEXT TUESDAY
Tho first General Assembly of tho 
yoar will bo hold In the Carnegie 
Music Hall onSeptember 29, at 11:510 
p. m. This will l>o tho first time that 
all Carnegie students, both froshmjm 
arid upperclassmen, from all tho 
schools, have had an opportunity to 
got together.
In former yours, ll was tho practice 
to hold a General Assembly tho day 
before Lhc first semosler bogan, Ibis 
year, however, an assembly for%ow 
students was held and the plebes 
were introduced to the faculty mem 
hers, away from the critical eye of the 
sophomores. With the now student 
council now Installed their first task 
will be to put across the assemblies.
Last year the advlsanllity of hav
ing speakers was debated both pro 
and con, and the place for tho assem
blies was moved to various sites such 
as the Gymnasium and the Union. 
This year the Music Hall will be used 
for this first assembly at least, and 
a definite decision on a pcrmanen-. 
place will be put off until later.
The exact program will not be an
nounced until next weeks Tartan 
which will come out bofore the as
sembly. It is assured that there will 
be stunts and speeches and perhaps 
awarding of trophies won last year, 
as the scholarships and rifle cup.
FOOTBALL TEAM 
HEAVIER THAN 
LAST SEASON
New Faces Will Appear 
When Team Meets Thiel 
October 3
SUBSTITUTES ARE
VERY FORMIDABLE
Lineup Still in Doubt as the 
Skibos Finish Third Week 
of Camp
With only a little over a week's 
time to put everything in good run
ning order. Coach Steffen is hard at 
work with his assistants, trying out. 
new men at positions aud teaching 
old tricks to new players and now 
tricks to old players. As in previous 
years Carnegie Tech will have a fast 
and ambitious team on tho field; one 
worthy to Carry tho Plaid colors, and 
ono worthy of every true Carnegians 
loyal support. The season opens with 
Thiol College in tho Carnegie Bowl 
011 October 3rd, and riiuch must be 
dona in the way of now plays, forma
tions, signals, running, and punting.
As regards punting, Max Bastion,' 
dependable quarterback, will do .the 
kicking this fall. Max has developed 
Into a mighty fine punter, but still 
has a lot to learn before the opening 
struggle with the wearers of tho Yollow Jackets from Thiol; Ono of tho 
many qualities which Bast,Ian poss* 
ossos Is tho ability to make a gain 
around the ends If a bad throw makes 
It. Impossible for him to kick.
Coach Steffon will remain with tho 
team until early October, when ho 
must return to his Judicial duties In 
Chicago. Bob Waddell will then take 
chargo of tho squad, Steffon,returning 
for oach game. As before, all In
struction will come via mall from tho 
head conch, and no gnmo will be play
ed without his presence. 'Phis plaiV 
wait successful last; year and hopes 
for even more success aro being ontortalnod this yoar;
It Is still too early to make any* 
predictions In regard to the possible 
line-up, but a word to those who have 
not boon to the Bowl during practlco 
will not be out of place, Goodwin and 
Cowan are being used regularly at tho 
terminal positions, and It Is on thoso 
two men liiot Carnogio depends to 
make Its long, substantal gains on tho 
famous cross play. Goodwin spoilt: 
the summer In California, and Is now 
ready for his best, year on tho grid
iron, it will not bo surprising, but 
(Continued on Pago Threo.)
TRUSTEES AWARD HONOR 
SCHOLARSHIPS TO THIRTY
Pittsburgh Honor Scholarships have 
boon awarded by the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology for tho new col
lege year to .'III membors of tho Fresh
man class. Each scholarship, accord
ing to tho announcement, carries a 
credit of $100 a year towards tho tui
tion fee, and Is continued for four 
years, if merited, with a total value 
or |<100.
Established by the trustees of tli<v 
Institute In 11)21, tho scholarships are 
offered annually to meritorious Seni-' 
ors In the Pittsburgh high schools on 
nomination from tho public school 
authorities. Only honor graduates of 
tho local high schools, or graduates of 
exceptional talent in spocial fields 
such as music and drawing, wore eli
gible for this years appointments.
The list of awards follows:
Gertrude ID, Blenko, 3G13 California 
avenue; George R. Burrell, 1240 Irwin 
avenue; Ina C. Campbell, 120 North 
Homewood avenue; Thomas L. Can-' 
non, 1200 Arch street; Franklin. II. 
Chormock, 13,08 Till street; Mary L. 
Connolly, 015 Delavan street; William 
A. Conwell, 221 Ulysses street; Cecil 
R. Cotton, 425 Eureka street; Frank 
E. DeSando, S. Slnalca way; Mary V. 
Egan, 081 Lllec street; Charles H. 
Elliott, 4120 Franklin road; James II. 
Ferrick, 814 Bigham street; Richard 
A. Hartley, 7241% Redron street; 
Alice M. Henlc, {720 Hobart street; 
Garland H. Kerr, 1400 Arch street; 
(Continued on Page Throe)
Placement Bureau Aids Students
And Graduates to Earn $700,000
At least $702,002,54, It Is estimated, 
were earned by graduates and stu
dents who secured positions dur
ing the past year through tho Place: 
ment Bureau a\. Carnogio Institute of 
Technology, according to a report sent 
by G. L, Tilbrook, Executive Score, 
tary of the Alumni Association, to 
President Thomas S. Balcor yesterday. 
Tho report In for the year botwoon 
July I, 1024, and July 1, 1025.
Of the total earnings reported, $500,- 
015.70 represent, the yearly Incomes 
earned by 344 men and women who 
were placed In full-time positions. 
Ninety-eight students for whom jobs 
were found earned $120,095.70. Sixty 
women graduates placed last year 
earned salaries totalling $113,808.00, 
while $300,012.00, according to the 
estimate, were earned by the 11)4 men 
graduates placed in positions by the
Bureau.
The total earnings of the day stu
dents, both men and women, who 
woro placed In part-time Jobs during 
the yeaiv were $102,080.78. This figure, 
the report points out, Is considerably 
less i ban the actual oarnlngs of the 
part-time group, hocauso many neglect 
to report tholr oarnlngs after being 
placed. Tho largest portion of this 
total Js reported for the men students 
who totalled $04,558.28 In part-time 
employment during the twelve
months period,
in connection with the report of tho 
part-time employment, Mr. Tilbrook 
estimates that from 200 to 300 of the 
day students earned all of their ex
penses Jn addition to carrrying a full 
day schedule throughout the year. In 
all 4,916 jobs were found by the Bu( Continued on Fage Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1925
ALUMNI PAGE
Published every weelc by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute or 
Technology under the jSiipervlslon of the Student Council. _______________
Entered In the Ponto ill ce of Pittsburgh as second-class mailer.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
CARL WINNING...................................................................................Schenley 9070
A830CIATE EDITORS
J. M. OOSSII. It. BITZLER
MANAGING EDITOR
JOE CRISTO FF..............................................................
R. L. LEPPER, Assistant............................................
M. T. HOLLINSHEAD, Assistant..............................
...Schenley 9385 
...Schenley 9122 
..........Hazel 9422
NEWS EDITORS
A V NERN ....................................................................Schenley 407C:.T
F A KOLB................... .......................................................Franklin 048r,-Ws.' weil... 1!!!*.!!'.!!.I*...........................................................................lLaz,)\ 0310FO TBAALDNCEF...................................................................................Highland 9525-J
ALUMNI EDITOR
W. J. KIM MEL....................................................................................IIlKhland 9127
REPORTERS
M. Tucker, M. Nuttall, M. Cohen, F. L. Grant, E. SXJYU F. Finn, A. Wingold, N. Kelly, M. Stump, R. M. Pew, F. 0. Wooda, C. Neu, C. Hartung, L. 
Feldstein. _________________________________________________
ATHLETIC EDITOR
CHAD FOLLER.....................................................................................Highland 9544
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
J. F. Harr ln, C. F. McWilliams, P. M. PavldHon, Hon Krlstof, J. R. Bracken.
ALUMNUS GIVES HIS 
VIEWS ON FOOTBALL
L. D. Allshouse of South Bend 
Tells of Teams Chances 
With Notre Dame
BUSINESS MANAGER
.Franklin 5547-J
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
ARNOLD PERRETON..........................................................Schenley 9211
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
L. BARBROW...............................,....................................................Highland 4476-R
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. Strlzak, B. Supowitz, L. 
Sachs, II. Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbhlo, Gladya Reynold,
W. A. Barnard I, J. M. Alrgood, A. C. Campbell, R. S. Boyd.___________________
The Editor-In-Chief In responsible for the policy of till paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.__________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withheld If desired. All news Items must bo in the student 
post olii co before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OIIlcoRoom 5, Industries Building. Office hoursDally 12:30- 
1:20._____________________________________________________
atnige P rALUMn NgIgAtG
II
CARNEGIE DEGREE RINGS:
10K Gold Mens Size..................................................................................$10.00
10K Cold Ladies Size............................................................................... 14.00
$4.00 deposit required with order.
CARNEGIE RECOGNITION JEWELRY:
Gold Filled Pins or Buttons......................................................................$1.00
10K Gold I8:3 or Buttons....................................................................... 2.00
10K Gold Rings (light weight)................................................................. 5.50
10K Gold Rings (heavy weight)............................................................... 7.00
Bar Pins ...............................................................................................$1.50-3.75
ON SALE OR MAY BE ORDERED AT ALUMNI OFFICE
Manufactured solely by He tiff- Jones Company, Indianapolis.
DIED
Alan Crago, graduate of the 
Maos of '23 In E. E., died on 
Monday, September 14th. Mr. 
Crago wao employed at the 
Wentlnghouoe Research Depart
ment and wao very highly es
teemed for his exceptional 
scientific and technical ability. 
His death occurred as ho was 
about to start for California 
Tech, where ho was sent by the 
Westlnghouse to pursue gradu
ate studies.
At school, Mr. Crago was 
quite active, having been stu
dent Y. M. C. A. secretary, a 
member of the A. I. E. E., mem
ber of the varsity Cross Country 
of '21, and varsity Track of '22 
and '23, and received a found
er's scholarship during '21 and 
'EE.
Carnegie Graduates 
Form Partnership
Architectural Firm Formed 
By Two Arts Alumni
Many people are wise on radio mat
ter, yot do not know why their foun
tain pen McnkD," or that they can 
purchase ono that will n*vti entire 
iiatlafactlon at the Jonklns Arcade* 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop.
CLEANING PRESSING
vyg biygMAgG 
vonAPt dP
400 80UTH ClfAIG
Next door to gents' furnishers 
TAILOR FOR THE 8TUDENTS 
We do llrut-cluss altering for 
roasoimblo prices,
Prompt Delivery Service, 
Sohenley 1530 
I > Y MI Nil REPAIRING
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
bsots DPLt Len1
Mgee dotggt TPI
A oliccltlni ncoount with till ulrofw hunk Ivo you a norlnlji prontiic timt In adviintiiitoouH. jii addition it nrvliloa n Unowlodo of 
flimnuliil pronoilnro tlmt will wirvu you In 0XX-8 iitoud In tli cbnduat of 
your ImiiiIiiuhii iuwl porBQnul iiltnlrM.
Ono of Ilm oiitHtiinilln olmruotor8Y8O8X-- of till il iiiHtltutlon ill til por* 
YX----8 Intonmt of MJIon ofllcom in lim Ammollii wolfurn of ^monitor#.
Capital and Surplus 
!f. 12,000,000.00
I Mellon National bank j
b Plllsbufrgh, Pa. Jj
List of Alumni Living 1 How High Shall We Build 
In Hartford District Carnegie?-John L. Porter
Plans for Alumni Directory 
Are Completed
From South Bend, the scene of our 
coming conlllct with Notre Dame, 
comes this first-hand Information In 
regard to the game on November 14.
L. D. Allshouse, a Carnegie graduate 
of '24 sent In the following letter.
It gives a fairly good Idea of the repu
tation of Carnegie In the Middle Wost 
and shows that our alumni are'ex
pecting big thing of our team this 
year.
On To 8outh Bend
The battling Tartan grldders, who 
last year scored more points on Knute 
Rockneu Irish Champions than Wa
bash, Lombard, Array, Princeton and 
Georgia Tech combined, have been 
given the place of honor on the Notre 
Dame home schedule this year  the 
annual home coming game. Last 
year Georgia Tech traveled north to 
South Bend for this festive occasion 
only to find that the Four Horsemen 
and the Seven Mules were far too 
powerful for them and wended their 
way sorrowfully to their homes stag
gering under the load of an over
whelming defeat.
As a matter of record, Notre Dame 
never had lost a Home Coming Game,
In fact only one game has ever 
been dropped by the Benders on their 
home lot and that was so far back In 
the days of long ago that even the 
old timers and the first settlers have 
heard of that sorrowful occasion by 
legend. Once, during the war, the 
Great Lakes Training School fought 
a drawn battle with Irishmen on Car
tier Field  but that was before the 
days of Knute Roclcne  which corre
sponds to Carnegies football history 
before Wally Steffen. In other words,
It was In the almost antedeluvlan age.
This year all omens point to the 
first home defeat for a Roclcne coach
ed Notre Dame eleven. All of last 
years first string are gonealong 
with even of the shock troops and 
live of the third stringers. On top 
of tills the Rocknmon are tackling the 
toughest layout of games ever signed 
for homo consumption. Baylor, last 
years Southwestern champions, open 
the season at South Bend. Beloit, 
conqueror of Marquette after that 
teams (J-0 triumph over the Navy,
Northwestern and. Carnogle are on 
the card. Current opinion seems to 
bo that ono of those games Is slated 
for the loss column and that the 
chances are even for all opponents.
Therefore, why shouldnt Carngle be 
the ono to carry off all the honors, 
glory and laurel wreathes connected 
with defeating Roeknos proteges on 
Homo Coming Day? .
If 1 no Idle talk to say that Notre on paper, Then a few days after 
Dame Is a little bit afraid of the Tar-j last falls game In Pittsburgh, he re
tan grldders. The night of the No- alTIrmod Ills statement. This year the 
brnskii-Notro Dame game in 'South student body, notoriously optimistic. 
Bend last fall, two weeks before the Is keeping under cover. Pre-soason 
Battle on Jiorbos Field, Rockne told betting Is extremely light and even 
the writer that Carnegie had him money is quoted against
The Architectural Department of 
Carnegie, so frequently heard from* 
again attracts attention with the an
nouncement that two of its graduates 
have formed a partnership. W. Hol
mes Crosby, who has been successful
ly practicing architecture In western 
New York, with offices in Oil City, 
has taken Into partnership his brother 
Ralph M. Crosby. The latter has 
been, for four years, resident In Los 
Angeles, California, where he has been 
employed as designer in one of the 
largest offices there. The firm will be 
known as Crosby-Crosby, with offices 
31-32-33 Berrs Builllng, Oil City. Both 
members are graduates of Carnegie, 
School of Applied Arts, and have al
ready shown ability as masters in 
their profession. Their offices are 
now working on commissions which 
total more than one million dollars 
value in buildings.
II. I.. SPI IA R, 27
chenley !)2.l 1
11. A. 11UNTER, 28 
IIilinid 954-1
vHdCSb ORTTHE COLLEGIATE IMPS
hbsgmgl ,Ptoiyc pntgisPt 
dOTdHBv rTp prTdH OBdCHbvBr
Now Available for Fall and Winter Season.
Q. G-. OSLER, 22 
Hilan d 4081
S. E. KOVACH, 23' 
Selienloy 9211
Aufhammer 3 Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 aHTT rVHTUH
rs bygtndoM bqLotg Hoes LnbgtsG
Everybodys Doing It
What? Renting a tux" or dress suit for that prom or 
fraternity affair- Get In the swim. Its cheaper, just as 
convenient and as satisfactory as owning your own. We 
can fit you perfectlyIn a smartly styled, correotly tai
lored outfit. Everybodys doing It.
Why not YOU?
Hours 8:80*5:30.
I WITTINGT0N DRESS SUIT CO.
G002-3 JENKINS ARCADE Grant 2604
HElNROTH ORGAN RECITALS
TO BEGIN OCTOBER THIRD
On Saturday, October third, Dr. 
Charles Heinroth will give the first 
free organ recital of the season at 
Carnegie Muulc Hall.
This recital will open the thirty-first 
Organ Recital season of Carnegie In
stitute. Recitals will be given weekly 
thereafter throughout the1 season and 
are free to the public. Students are 
especially invited toN attend.
The plans for the new alumni direc
tory mentioned in the last Issue of 
the Tartan have asumed definite form 
and the first list of alumni names is 
given below. This list comprises the 
names of all alumni living in and 
about Hartford, Conn. Succeeding 
Issues will contain the names of grad
uates in other districts. It is hoped 
that the clans and Individual alumni 
will find these lists of service and will 
make use of them to increase the clan 
membership and to keep in touch with 
old classmates.
If there are any additions or 
changes of address which have been 
overlooked, the Alumni Office should 
be notified.
Alumni in Hartford, Conn.
K. W. Finlay, I23, 270 Blue Hills 
avenue, Hartford.
L. C. Fogg, EH, 34 Lexington road, 
West Hartford.
Wm. F. Gallagher, I24, 74 Orange 
street, Hartford.
Joseph Gelmanfi A17, 721 Main 
street, Hartford.
L. H. Hale, E20, 100 Orchard street, 
East Hartford.
Mrs. L. H. Hale, M19, 100 Orchard 
street, East Hartford.
Mrs. Wm. Harrington, M12, 189 S. 
Whitney street, Hartford.
Carl E. Hemmann, I, 7 River road, 
Wethersfield, Hartford.
E. D. Lambert, E13, 174 Warrenton avenue, Hartford.
A. E. Levin, I, 80-90 Albany avenue, 
Hartford.
J. M. Montstream, E21, 121 Newing
ton avenue, Hartford.
D. A. Nemser, E19, 50 Barnard 
street, Hartford.
C. A. Nordstrom, E24, 121 Wilson 
street, Hartford.
R. B. Prouty, I, 20 Steadman street, 
Hartford.
C. E. Rutherford, E17, 103 Beverly 
road, West Hartford.
R. J. Solomon, I16, 13 Enfield street, 
Hartford.
Nicholas Tremonte/ 1'17, 109 Ed
ward street, Hartford.
O. H. Weigold, E18, 1040 Capitol 
avenue Extension, Hartford.
Harold G. Selleck, E22, 193 Court 
street, Middletown, Conn.
Wm. B. Gody, I25, 10 Madison 
street,' New Britain, Conn.
"How high shall we build Carne
gie? the very Inspiring lead article 
in the last issue of the Alumnus, 
points out some interesting facts and 
stresses ideas vital to Carnegies proiss. Coming from the pen of John 
L. Porter, Chairman of the Board of 
Trustees, and a prominent financier 
and Industrial expert, the idealism 
which it expresses is doubly mean
ingful.
In referring to the school Mr. Por
ter points out the mammoth propor
tions. the vast wealth, and the re
markable facilities including the Car
negie Museum and Library system, 
with an inside knowledge of astound
ing facts. He even speaks with great 
pride of our fraternity system.
He marvels at the rapid growth of 
our institution, "which has outdis
tanced over 600 institutions of higher 
learning, basing his comments on the 
very flattering report of an investi
gating committee of four years ago, 
consisting of three well-known edu
cators, one leading college accountant, 
and one multi-millionaire business 
man, which committee made a survey 
of Carnegie from all possible angles.
The alumni foundation, consisting 
of our first sixteen graduating classes, 
next catches Mr. Porters eye. In his 
own words, "Educational institutions 
are built: first, of money; second, of 
buildings; third, of men and women. 
But dont forget that the things that 
make for their everlasting reputation 
and honor are their men and women.
A vigorous tirade against the mass 
production of college graduates, 
against this business of "trifling with 
the lives and welfare of men and 
men to the extent of. force-feeding 
them, in order to throw them onto 
the markets of the world in herd* to 
be boasted) of!' goes to the heart of 
one of our greatest educational prob
lems, and presents in a stimulating 
way material for many a bull ses
sion.
Every man and woman who gradu
ates from our colleges should add 
something to our social heritage 
through this work in his chosen field. 
The production of constructive thinfeers, not of highly specialized ma
chines, is the true function of these 
institutions, a function from which 
we wander farther year by year.
On the shoulders or tne Carnegio 
Alumni, on the shoulders of the Car
negie students, he places the bur
den of the Suture. "The trustees, tha 
administration, and the faculty have 
brought it to where it is today, and 
it is- only recently that we have felt 
the surging of this fine body of men 
and women at our backs. If this in
stitution is to be built at all any 
higher than It is today, 75 per cent of. 
the responsibility for that building 
rests on your shoulders. No goal is 
too high for attainment, If not by 
leaps and bounds, then rung by rung, 
he feels, with a full measure of co
operation, enthusiasm, and the will 
to do..
PLACEMENT BUREAU AIDS 
STUDENT AND FACULTY
TO EARN $700,000
ARTS SCHOOL DEAN HOLDS
RECEPTION FOR FRESHMEN
guessing, The Bilge of Notre Dame 
spoke I'rooly und sincerely that any 
team that Wally Steffen coached was 
likely to havo more tricks up Its col
lect! v * filoevo than evenly lovon or
dinary aggregations and that this fact 
coupled with the traditional neveriiuy-dlo spirit of the Sklboti made them 
a loam far stronger on the field than
Try and get odds or oven 7 points. 
Such money just doesnt oxlst.
Therefore, lets get the gang togeth
er and descond on -South Bond a thou
sands strong find, show the Notre 
Damsels what a. fighting Scotch eleven 
can do when backed up by the kilties 
and a thousand loyal sons and daught
ers wearing lincio Andys plaid.
The annual reception for Freshmen, 
given by the Dean and Faculty of the 
college of Fine Arts was held last Fri
day night in the Exhibition room and 
Foyer of the Arts 'School.
After an informal reception of the 
new students by the Dean and Fac
ulty entertainment in the form of fif
teen minute stunts was offered by the 
plebes of the different departments 
of the school. The stunts were writ
ten and directed entirely by plebes, 
Carnegie. | and went over well. They were ex
ceptionally well done, despite the very 
short time given for preparation, and 
were a tribute to the cleverness and 
Ingenuity of the class of 29. I-Iardie 
Albright was master of ceremonies, 
and Introduced the stunls.
An informal dance to music by the 
Carneglans Orchestra followed the 
stunts.
dOLLHGH CrLL
3808 FIFvC rVHTUH 
ORLITGc aOOL rTp ILLIrBpb 
vPboiiP dPMgisnPMgtG
biygMAgG 9E91 
a N FnszgnbbPM Lgg pLMioM
5 ponte
P
LodngeS FLAA 
FoeynPMgd 
dynPM Pt 
vytgod bnAk 
CPeg Pt
$1
Value of 5 pa\rs $10.00
gAPI oMd bgg CPI HoeG ns ne sP Ggs vyne BgUotkobAg VoALg
Buy a contract fot> $4. Each contract lias three coupons which you can sell 
al. $1 apiece, KEEPING THE SO RECEIVED. As soon as the three friends 
to whom these coupons have been sold, send in their coupons with three dollars 
for new contracts, we will ship you 5 pairs of silk hose in whatever size and color 
you prefer.
This unique way of selliniiiniUces.it very easy for you to have the best qual
ity id' silk hose, at a net cost to you of only $]. Can you afford to miss such a rare 
opportunity 'I
FPt Ltsygt nMPtUosnPMc egg Mnee GAodGe BgGMPAdec atoisnig CPLegc 51E5 RPPdAoIM rmgMLg bgg syg CPeg! ,MPI syg QLoAnsG
pgAnsg boAge dPUpoMG
807 bvrTprBp LIFH UILpITGdOB FOUBvC rTp bMIvCFIHLp
(Continued From Page One.) 
reau for students who registered for 
part-time employment last year, 3,578 
of these jobs going to men students. 
The 1,338 part-time places found for 
women students resulted  in total 
earnings of $18,591.50.
Of the 194 full-time positions found 
for men graduates last year, 34 were 
as mechanical engineers, this being 
the largest group classification re
ported. Thirty graduates of the De
partment of Machinery Production of 
the College of Industries were placed, 
and 26 positions in electrical engi
neering were filled by graduates. 
Other classifications of comparatively 
large groups of placements were com
mercial engineers, civil engineers, 
metallurgical or mining engineers, 
chemical engineers, architects, de
signers, and teachers.
The largest group of placements 
among the 668 positions found for 
women graduates last year is reported 
for teachers with a total of 36 place
ments. Twenty-two graduates were 
placed as secretaries and four became 
institutional managers.
According to the report, more than 
forty different firms were represented 
among the groups of officials that 
visited Carnegie institute of Tech
nology during the past year to inter
view members of the graduating class 
regarding employment. The increas
ing number of these representatives 
during tile past few years, the report 
Is considered as an indication of the 
growing demand among industries 
for graduates of Carnegie as pros
pective employes.
In summing up the functions of the 
Placement Bureau upon the work done 
lust year as a basis, the report points 
out that 200 men students of day 
courses earn enough money to make 
their education at Carnegie possible; 
almost 100 women students of the 
day courses depend upon the Place
ment Bureau to the same extent; 400 
to 500 men students of day courses 
secure part-time work through the 
Bureau; 200 women students secured 
part-time work through the Bureau; 
200 to 300 graduates are placed in bet
ter positions annually; nearly 100 
men students of night courses from in 
and out of the Pittsburgh District are 
placed in positions which enable them 
to attend night school, and 150 men 
and women students are placed in po
sitions during the summer months 
while attending the Summer Session.
MANY IMPROVEMENTS IN
PRINTING DEPARTMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
$211,000, which was donated to tha 
school by the Mergenthaler Linotype 
Company of New York. This gift 
comes through the courtesy of Harry 
E. Gage, who was formerly head of 
the department of printing and waa 
really the orginal organizer of the de
partment as it exists today. In addi
tion to the above machinery, a new 
high speed press has been donated 
by the Miller Saw-Trimmer Com
pany of Pittsburgh. The press Is val
ued at $3,500. This makes a total of 
nearly $25,000 worth of new machin
ery.
Tbe good work which has been dona 
by the printing course in Carnegie is 
not without recognition. The depart
ment lia3 been asked to exhibit speci
mens of .its work at the thirty-ninth 
annual exhibition of the Typothetae 
of America which will be held in the 
Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago, 
during the week of October 19 to 20.
A number of changes have been 
made in the curriculum of the print
ing course. Notably in the amount of 
English and advertising which will be 
included. However these changee 
have not yet been approved so cannot 
be fully announced. A complete ac
count of the variations which have 
been made in the course will be pub
lished in the near future by The Tar
tan.
ANGLICAN CONVENTION
IS GUEST OF CARNEGIE
O. T. C. RESTRICTED
IN SIZE OF UNIT
(Continued From Page One.) 
match will be a shoulder to shoulder 
match with Pitt and Penn State on 
the eve ofc the Pitt-Penn State game, 
another interesting match, open to all 
members of the R. O. T. C., to the 
winner which Major Taylor is offering 
a cup, will be ten shots kneeling and 
.ten shots standing. The regular 
match for the silver cup donated by 
Capt. Lyons, open to the Engineer 
Unit, will again take place. It is ex
pected that either metals or a cup will 
allso be offered for other good shots in 
the R. O. T. C.
Other rifle matches to be shot again 
this year will be the Hearst Trophy 
Match, the Third Corps Area Match, 
and the Society of American Military 
Engineers Match. Carnegie was 
fourth last year in the Military Engi
neer Match and this year has a very 
good chance to earn it.
The fortieth annual convention of 
the Brotherhood of St. Andrews which 
met on the Carnegie Campus Wednes
day, September 2, continuing through 
the following Sunday, was generally 
conceded to be one of the most suc
cessful of the kind ever held. An- at
tendance which nearly broke all rec
ords of former years, included promi
nent Episcopalian clergymen from all 
parts of the country, as well as rep
resentatives from Canada and New 
Zealand. . Delegate C. W. Bbijeton, 
president of the Brotherhood of New 
Zealand, traveled more than 12,000 
miles to attend the convention.
Among the distinguished members 
of the clergy who attended are tha 
Rt. Rev. James Wise, bishop of Kan
sas ; the Rt. Rev. David L. Ferris, 
bishop coadjutor of Western New 
York; the Rt. Rev. H. St. George 
Tucker of the Theological Seminary 
at Alexandria, Va., and, the Rt. Rev. 
Edwin A. Penuick, bishop coadjutor 
of North Carolina, chaplain of tha 
Junior Convention.
At a meeting Saturday the order 
elected1 new officers, who are as fol
lows: .President, Edw. H. Bon sail of 
Philadelphia; vice president, Courte
nay Barber of Chicago; Walter Kedds 
of Montclair, N. Y., and B.. F. Finney 
of Sewanee, Tenn., and treasurer, 
Chas. E. -Cuery of Philadelphia.
Members of the Junior Convention 
which opened with a get-together 
meeting in the Arts Theater, includ
ed a number of Carnegies under
graduates-and alumni. Cy Hoenninger 
was prominent on committee work. 
The Carnegie faculty was also well 
represented.
Those in charge of the convention 
wede well pleased with the outcomo 
and with the facilities and environ
ment which the Carnegie campus pro
vided for such a gathering. No doubt 
the success of this convention will do 
much to add to the glory of Carne
gie, and to establish Its popularity 
as a suitable meeting place for all 
such delegations in the future.
hLy6 dPAAggg dPtMgt
SCHOOL SUPPLIESCANDY
LUNCHONETTE
vyg dPAAggg ayotUoiG
RUSSELL T. BOUCH, Proprietor 
3900 FIFTH AVENUE, CORNER BOUQUET STREET 
Phone Schenley 2212 PITTSBURGH, PA---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22. 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&PLAID ATHLETICS
&
PLEBE GR1DDERS 
SHOWING ABILITY
Anderson Pleased With New 
MenToo Early to Fix 
Definite Lineup
When the varsity players reached 
camp on the first of September, many 
new faces were seen. These belonged 
to the Plebes reporting for instruction 
from their coach, Jimmy Anderson. 
For throe weeks, daily practice has 
been their lot, with the exception of 
Sundays. The first part of the routine 
they followed consisted mostly of long 
drills in the fundamentals of the 
game; tackling, punting, passing, 
"blocking, falling on the ball, etc. This 
was followed by signal drills and 
scrimmage, with the varsity and 
among themselves.
During this preliminary practice 
most of the men, have shown up very 
well, but it is too early to make any 
selection of a line-up. Every man on 
the squad still has a chance to win a 
place in the lineup for the opening at 
Slippery Rock Normal on Saturday, 
October 3.
The team that lines up for the first 
game should be stronger than that 
which started the season last year, 
and should make a better record than 
their immediate predecessors. The 
team will be much heavier than that of 
last year and will have many more ca
pable substitutes. They have done 
their part toward developing the var
sity, too, for the latter has an exceed
ingly hard time gaining any ground 
when pitted against the Plebes.
At center, Coach Anderson has 
three men to pick from, Stauffer, 
Cunningham and Glosser. All of these 
men are showing up well, and a de
finite decision as to who is to start the 
first game will probably not be made 
until a day or two before the contest.
The guards are Riesinger, Lovewell, 
Gueifus and Camp; Cunningham may 
also be used at this position. Lovewell has been hindered by an injured 
shoulder, but it will soon be healed, 
and an idea of the respective strength 
of the guards can then be gotten.
At tackle Mielziner, English, Mor
row and Young are having a merry
*
I RgAiPUg 
s oik!
Headquarters for Your
Collegiate Togs
COLLEGE SHOP
4618/2 FORBES STREET 
"SQUAWK TAYLOR
Get Your Book of 
T\ckets from Buddy 
Overends Off\ce
Student athletic-ticket books are 
now available at the Graduate Mana
gers office in the New Gym. Regis
tration cards must be presented in 
order to procure the book of tickets to 
Carnegies athletic contests. These 
passes will admit one to all home 
football and basketball games, and 
should be immediately from Mr. Over
ends office. Last year these tickets 
were distributed at registration, but 
in an effort to simplify that latter 
process, the Graduate Managers office 
is now taking care of the handing out 
of these books.
Get your book of tickets early and 
avoid the stampede that will probably 
precede' the Thiel game. Similar to 
the arrangement of last year, the 
passes will be non-transferable.
fight. Melziner, one of the biggest 
men that has been around Carnegie 
for some time, seems to be leading the 
race at present, but has not cinched a 
job yet.
The terminals will be well taken 
care of by either Kuosman, Walker, 
Rankin, Allen, Kerr or Sweet. The 
candidates for the ends are exceptionly numerous, a good pair of wingmen should result.
Behind the line the fnaterial is not 
quite as plentiful but what there is of 
it is high class. One of the biggest 
problems Jimmy has, is who to start 
at quarter. Limeric and Harpster are 
both excellent men, and there is very 
little difference in ability between 
them.
Anderson and Letzelter are the full
backs. Both are heavy and fast. 
Either should be good for two or three 
yards when they are needed most.
To complete the backfield, Anderson 
has Lhe choice of Milner, Crum, Drury, 
Cole and Devos at the halves. These 
men have all played quite a bit of 
football, and it will be a fight all sea
son for these berths.
Coach Anderson is very well 
pleased with the material, but he re
fuses to make any predictions as to 
the gaZnes his men will win. There is 
still two weeks before the first game, 
and by that time he expects to have 
a better, idea of what success the 
yearlings will enjoy this year.
MENS STYLE SHOP
CONNORS & MORRISON 
FORBES STREET 
Oakland
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STS. 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
Evenings. Advanced, Thursday 
and Saturday Evenings. Private 
lessons by appointment.
Schenley 3173.
y ,
That mostgUbottoeenMgmoment
S
AYanASyF cnult the geol
ogy prof, had reached the 
crux of his course. I de
fine Evolution, said he, as 
the And just then Henry 
Neanderthal broke the lead in 
his old-fashioned whittle-andsmudge. Poor Heinie! Hed 
be a campus ornament still if 
hed only had an Eversharp. 
Verbtim sap!
From j oc to a month's allowance
EVERS HARP 
I and WAHL PEN
MEETS SCHEDULED 
NOW FOR HARRIERS
Pitt, Alfred and Westminster 
Furnish Competition for 
Plaid
The Cross-Country schedule is now 
almost complete. There are three 
home meets, and it is hoped that a 
trip can be arranged very shortly with 
one of several big schools now under 
consideration. The Pitt Inter-collegiate champions will be met on the 
Carnegie course October 24, and the 
Alfred harriers will compete with 
those of the Plaid on October 21), 
while the Westminster aggregation 
will run here November 7. Alfred was 
met several years ago on their home 
course by the Ttartans and the latter 
were beaten very badly. Dykeman, 
then the Skibo captain, was the only 
member of the squad to finish ahead 
of the greater part of the Alfred team. 
Seven of the New York state boys 
beat out Carnegies second man. In 
many of the eastern schools, cross
country is a major sport and as a 
consequence of competition such as 
that fact would induce. Alfred has al
ways had very good teams.
This season the team will be built 
around Capt. Peck, Sponsellor, Hobe, 
Ewing, and Lustenberger, all of whom 
ran very well last season. Peck 
usually placed third man, and was 
always pressed closely by Hobe. The 
loss of Dykeman and Capt Bright 
through graduation was the severest 
blow that the cross-country team has 
suffered for several years. These two 
were listed among the main-stays of 
the team for the past four seasons. 
Another blow to the team Is the loss 
qC Crawford, last year's freshman 
star, who is out of competition due to 
scholastic ineligibility. Crawford ia 
now registered in a non-degree course, 
but expects to become qualified for 
the track team next spring.
Manager Ed. Wright is expecting 
to issue a call for candidates and 
assistant managers. All freshmen, 
whether they have ever run while in 
high-school or not, should report at 
the place and at the time stated on 
the notices to be placed on the bul
letin boards. One of the greatest run
ners the school has had in recent 
years tried out for the team just for 
the exercise when he was a freshman. 
Great runners are born, not merely 
made by practice; of course, however, 
practice plays the most Important 
role in the process of developing a 
track man. Come out and get in the 
swim. You will enjoy it, and be able 
to study better.
FOOTBALL TEAM HEAVIER
THAN LAST SEASON
(Continued From Page One.) 
rather expected, to see Goodwin run
ning wild for long gains. Cowan, a 
reliable man, has been showing line 
football sense and will be one of the 
factors in the Carnegie victories. For 
the tackle positions we have Yoder 
and Cooper, both 200-pounders, who 
are In the pink of condition and 
eagerly waiting for the whistlo which 
will pry off the lid for the season. 
At a guard position a new faco is seen. 
New for the position only, but one 
who is well known to the followers 
of the team for three years, namely 
Ivristof. Steffen has used this husky 
boy at tackle, end and center at var
ious times and will fit him in at left 
guard position. Cass, a veteran, will 
doubtless fill the right guard position. 
It is needless to say anything about 
 the abilities of this man, his qualities 
are only too well known to Tartan 
followers. Manby, at the pivot, will 
start all Carnegie plays, by spinning 
the ball back to a determined runner. 
His ability to make all passes ac
curate has won for him the distinction 
of being one of the finest centers de
veloped at Carnegie Tech.
The Plaid back-field will be com
posed of men who are well known in 
Tartan football circles, and on whom 
the Tartan coaches can depend to 
make good gains. Bastian will again 
bark out the signals. Wertenberger 
and Donohoe are making fine bids for 
the half-bach positions, but as was 
said before, it is still too early to 
make a definite statement. Yesterday 
the Skibos went .through another hard 
scrimmage with the Plebesj and Dono
hoe breaking away for long gains. He 
is fast and has the power to throw off 
tacklers, a feat which is quite neces
sary for a half-back. Captain Beede, 
the Youngstown flash, will bring up 
the rear at the full-back position.
Carnegie is fortunate in having a 
formidable array of good substitute 
material. No team is better than its 
substitutes. Powrie, McClelland, 
Christoff, Sebastion, Dodge, Bielske,
On the Plaid Screen
FOOTBALL
The Tartan grid squad is rapidly rounding into definite form as a football 
team. Several combinations have boon tried in the back field and on the lino, 
and Coach Steffen has now settled down to drilling tho best of those arrange
ments in scrimmage practice and signal drill. Goodwin and Cowan soom to 
team up very well at the ends, and will In all likelihood perform in those 
capacities during the major part of tho season. Although this is a now posi
tion to Cowan he has shown rare ability, and his knowledge of tho baoklields requirements of an end was gained at first, hand, so to speak; he 
having played iu tho roar department of tho plebe team last fall.
Bill Donohoe and Max Bastian are belug tutored by Stelfon to altornato 
their jobs and replace ono another as half and quarter, respectively, should 
the occasion demand; but will undoubtedly start the games together. Tho 
line will weigh closer to two hundred pounds than It has for many yoars 
and all seasoned men.
There is every reason to believe that Carnegie is due for a very success
ful football season. Those positions which wero left vacant by graduation 
and ineligibility have boon ably filled, and there are many eager, If some
what inexperienced, substitutes who are determined to give a good account 
of tlieniselves when sent into the fray.
The freshman squad Is creating plenty of excitement by the way they 
handle themselves in scrimmage. When pitted against the varsity, that 
latter august body finds in them a real opponent, one which plays head up 
football and Is quick to tecover fumbles and break up plays. Coach Jim An
derson is now completing his inventory of the abilities of his men, and start
ing to form a definite lineup. Jim is very emphatic in his denial that any 
of the positions are cinched, and will probably reserve an exact statement 
until the night before the Slippery Rock game.
THE CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM
In direct contrast to gridiron prospects, tho outlook for tho harriers is 
very poor this season. With his best men gone, Coach Guy Ilalferty has a 
real problem to solve. In addition to the derth of material, the schedule is 
about as difficult as any that has faced the cross-country team for many 
years. Pitt has its Inter-Collegiate championship team almost Intact, while 
Alfred will send a squad which has been trained on a courso practically tho 
same as ours. The famous long up-hill grind from Panther Hollow Lake to 
the golf course has its almost exact repleca on the Alfred track. Westmins
ter is perhaps the most vulnerable of the three opponents, but it will take 
Carnegies utmost to defeat them.
The long and short of it is that every man in school who has two good 
legs and Is eligible scholastically should respond to the situation and make 
the team or know the reason why. This is one sport in which no oxporionco 
is necessary.
The coming one is Coach Halfertys third season as mentor of track and 
cross country. He was one of the stars of tho schools oarly days and still 
holds the Carnegie 220-yard hurdle record of 24 and *1-5 secodns, which has 
stood since 1909. Halferty is one of the best liked of the Tartan coachos and 
knows all the ins and outs of cross-country running, and of the Schenley 
Park course in particular.
MISCELLANEOUS 
Myers has been showing up well with the varsity football squad. He 
hits the line head down and like a bulletrone of the host lino plungers 
since Brumbaughs days.* * * *
Coopers shoulder is about normal again and he is now regularly doing 
his share on the line.* + * *
The loss of Crawfoyd, captain of the plobo harriers last fall, Is a blow 
to the cross-country team. Pie was being counted on.* * *' ?
Dont delay getting your book of athletic tickets.
TRUSTEES AWARD HONOR
SCHOLARSHIP TO 30
(Continued From Pago One.) 
Lillian Kimball, 5704 Hobart street; 
Ethel Kunst, 1701 Center avonuo; 
Albert L. Lane, GG4 Lockart street; 
Rosamond H. Marthens, $541 Califor
nia avenue; Eva I. Moisei, 133 Amaboll street; Miriam A. Portno, 3568 
Beechwood Boulevard; Ida May Ninnoss. 159 Meridan street; Mary C. It. 
Frietsch, 5433 Broad street; Dorothy 
J. Roy, 305 South Pacific avonuo; 
Florence M. Shapiro, 5902 Nicholson 
street;  William J. Simmons, 1310 
Grandview avenue; Aaron Smith, 3245 
I-Iardie place; Francis H. Scocslcay, 
312 Johnston avenue; Gertrude L. 
Till, 6338 Phillips avonue; I-Ielon R. 
Rosenbach, 6343 Alderson streot; 
Olivia E. Vettor, 2745 Amman street; 
Franklin A. West, 1330 Squlrrol Hill 
avenue, and Harold C. Yoager, Blawnox, Pa.
WOODLAWN CLUB OWNER
OF NEW HOME
(Continued From Pago One ) 
early in 1906, when it was known as 
tho Woodlawn Cottage Club, with a 
louse on Woodlawn avenuo. Later tho 
old location was abandoned for the 
house at 5814 Forbes street, where 
they remained until last Spring, when 
the present property was purchased. 
Sbme of the mebeiB of the Woodlawn 
Club who are well known on the cam
pus are Dr. Hamerschlag, the first 
president of Carnogie; J. C. Hobbs, 
the first alumnus of C. I. T. to be 
elected to the Board of Trustees; Pro
fessors Trinks, Beebe and Dennison. 
The school as a whole wishes the 
Woodlawn Club every possible success 
in their new home4817 Center ave
nue.
Myers, Marshall. Vogt, Chalupa, Har
mon and Swalle are men who can be 
depended upon when put into the 
game.
The cheer-leaders, under the tutulage of head cheer-leader Pete Sea
man, are busy making preparations 
for the opening game. New stunts 
and new cheers are to be introduced 
to the student body and its coopera
tion is necessary for their success. 
So let there begin now the instilling 
of that good old Scotch spirit that has 
meant so much to Carnegie teams in 
the years gone by.
Bellefield Tailoring 
and Cleaning Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Tho Bellefield Tailors will pay 
special attention to the stu
dents work.
DEAN GREEN VOICES
DISAPPROVAL OF SlMOKING 
AMONG COLLEGE WOMEN
(Continued* From Pago Ono.) 
neod not bo oncouragod to any oxtont. I am not against smoking sim
ply because It Is smoking. Thoro Is 
tho standpoint of health. Most sci
ential s and physicians are united In 
their ideas on tho subjoct of smoking. 
They have found that smoking woalcens tho physical, and dulls tho montal capaoltlos to tho smoker. Then 
later In life tho question arises, what 
kind of a mother will the clgarotte 
smoker be? Is It posslblo that she 
will bo physically lit to assumo her 
fullest rospbnslbllltlos
I am not in favor of prohibition, 
Insists Doan Green. "I bollovo that 
young women must faco tholr social 
problems regularly. Tho girl that has 
the highest Ideals must, and does, 
make many sacrifices to uphold them. 
But at the same time the woman with 
the highest Ideals has the greatest op
portunity for growth, happiness, and 
contentment.
"What are tho ideals of tho women 
at Carnogie? What kind of a school 
do the women ol Carnoglo desire? 
They can make It entirely what tlioy 
want It to be. Carnogie lnust grow 
and oxpand, and it is tholr actions 
and Ideals that are laying tho corner 
stone for this greater expansion of 
thought and learning. The women 
who are at Carnegie, tlielr habits, 
tholr behavior, and their ideals, aro 
making the Carnegie of today; and 
building the foundation of tho Car
negie of tomorrow."
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Appointments Bell Phone
Upon Request Hiland 1681
BETTY RODGERS ?
 BEAUTY PARLORS |
x
 MARCELLING A SPECIALTY 
312 NORTH CRAIG STREET X
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
RB,UVb
Phone Mayflower 0883.
Phone Schenley 1070 Open Evenings By Appointment
D. MONROE
BEAUTY PARLOR 
Hair Dressing ahd Hair Goods Face and Scalp Treatments
MAECELLIN G119 BOUQUET STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
Special emphasis on Marcel.
AFTER
EVERY
Probably" one 
reason for the 
popularity of 
WRIGLEY8 la that It Inntn 
3X long and return/ nucli 
great dividends for no nmall 
an outlay. fc It keep teeth 
dean, breath wect, appetlta 
ktcr., digcutlon flood.
Prcsh and full-flavored 
always In its wax-wrapped 
package.
T\ckets for the 
P\tt-Carneg\e Game
The Unlvorsity of Pittsburgh, lias 
Invited us to dodlcato Its now Stadium 
on October 17 with a doublo attrac
tion. Our Varsity und Froshman Foot
ball teams will again compote for tho 
city championship.
Owing to tho intorost that has boon 
shown in tho past, you can look for
ward to seeing a record-breaking 
crowd. Seat reservation to date has 
boon very heavy for the game. Our 
advice is to notify your parents and 
friends who aro oxpoctlng to attend 
tills big event to order tholr SEATS 
AT ONCE. Dont put it- off. Do it 
now. Take advantage of tho choice 
seats. Reservations can be made by 
calling in poi'son at tho office of Clar
ence Overend, Graduate Manager, or 
by writing to him, Cash, check, or 
money order and a return stamped 
and addressed envelope must accom
pany all orders for tickets. Reserved 
seats will cost $2.50.
SPECIAL TRAIN TO 
GO TO SOUTH BEND
Railroad Company Grants 
Special Fare of $13.92 
for Round Trip
MUSICAL CLUBS WILL
HAVE NEW LEADERS
(Continued From Page One.) 
of tho season. As usual there will be 
a Home Concert later in the year. 
Tho details for these trips are all 
worked out boforo hand and at preout the bulk of tho work is falling on 
the managing end. As soon as the 
Clubs get going tho members will 
have their full share in tills popular 
activity.
Every year duo to tho dropping out 
of men, and the toll of graduation 
there Is an urgent demand for new 
men in the organization. It has boon 
tho custom for all persons with the 
nocessary ability and interost to re
port at a set tinio for tryouts. This 
year all applicants aro to roport at 
this first, mooting noxt Sunday. The 
reward for this activity is the rogullar activity key of Carnoglo. Tills 
chance Is offered to all men In school, 
It Is not nocessary to bo an upporclassman to try out.
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
The Oakland Bank"
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus - - - $300,<000.00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
Last, year the Football game botwoon Carnegie and Notre Dame at 
Forbos Field was a real treat to the 
followorsc of inter-sectional football. 
So much intorost was aroused at that 
time that a great number of our Alum
ni and also the Notre Damo Alumni 
signiflod their willingness to make the 
trip to South Bond for our annual 
game with Notre Dame which takes 
place on November 14, 1925. Notre 
Dame will celebrate its Home-Coming 
Day, tho biggest day on its home 
schedule.
Graduate Manager Overend has 
boon in communication with tho offici
ale of tho railroad for some time and 
thoy have filially agreed to send a 
special train to South Bond, leaving 
Pittsburgh, Friday night, November 13 
and leaving South Bond Saturday 
night, Novonuber 14. This special 
will carry both sleepers and day 
coaches. The railroad company has 
named a lialf-fare rate, of $13.92 for 
tho round-trip; Pullman rates are 
$4.50 each way for lower borth, or 
$3.75 for an upper. All those inter
ested in this trip will please get In 
touch with Clarence Ovorend, Grad
uate Manager, New Gym, Carnegie 
Toch.
A block of reserved Boats is being 
hold for us, and our students will be 
admitted to the game for the price of 
$.50.
CRAIG RESTAURANT
Tho place whore all tho follows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
University Restaurant
Excellent Food 
Reaoonnble Prlcea 
FIRST 182B'' SERVICE 
Opon Dny and Nlght 
4005 FORBES STREET
c^Waggie
cTWurph
Beauty'
Parlor
MARCELLING 
SHAMPOOING AND 
MANICURING
Enflnaemont by nppolntmont 
Sunday and Evanlnaa4518 FORBES ST.
iwmmiiMmmmMmmiwiwwwmmmtwimwmimmmiwmMWtmwit: ;
Brd,HTb
The new colors featured th\s Fall byCots biboMgt & Motx
A famous stylist who is on the Hart Sehaffner 
& Marx staff got his inspiration for these fabrics 
from a mountain side in Scotland. It was covered 
with bracken, a fern that turns in the fall to rich 
shades of brown.
He had these colors duplicated in the finest 
fabrics the weavers could produce.
They were an immediate success and are the 
predominating fabrics iu Great Britain and Amer
ica now. They arc called Brackens and come in a 
variety of shades; grouse brown, wood brown, 
pheasant hues, Scotch bramble, peat and Heatliland. The weaves are barleycorn, (llenurquliart 
plaids, dusted patterns, geometrical designs; in 
Saxonies, cheviots and tweeds.
The Hart Sehaffner and Marx Label means 
new color, new style, new fabricsand always fine 
quality.

Pittsburgh Home of H. S. & M. Clothing 
Fifth Avenue, Smithfield and Diamond Streets

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1925
EDITORIAL PAGE
Why Blame the Seniors?
KWHV.TB Kfiow Vft - HWE A CIGflRETHOW Ofl Yfl L.IKE SCHOOL.  IVOW^WHERB
Vn from-2-how of) Vrt like G-Ecx^'Re
YA work-in' PERT\T HWtjjf-VflS, (l/HENi 3.
-, wflsn PLeeewe oi/GHTft eenT Pitt 
v-, Trtis YE (11^  wqs '(ft iN THE
PSER.oef- STAVlM1 fit TH1 Dorms? 
HBG ft 04QRET -nt T1 lOPH\ 
\ 06THER1 N'VA?  eL-O-DLft-BLO-BLrt r''v_ RGG,WH - et-fl - pi-- cTc,
What Price Glory played at the 
Pitt last week, as you know, and thoustands went to learn new words; and 
if I am typical, were disappointed but 
a few minutes after the opening cur
tain for those gems of vaunted pro
fanity which had not been toned down 
woefully, blended so with the general 
tone of the whole that it assumed no 
particular prominence.
The play concerned a hard-boiled 
captain and his ancient enemy, an 
equally hard-boiled first sergeant, and 
their rivalry over the only available 
girl, daughter of an inn keeper. At 
first she was the captains girl; but 
in his absence on leave, the top-kick 
assumed her among other responsibili
ties; after that the play was a 
series of moves and maneuvers by the 
rivals with frequent interventions by 
fate and headquarters, until the game 
was called a draw, as both were or
dered to the front.
Tho war was fought miles away ex
cept in the second act wherein one sol
dier, in an hysterical outburst named 
the play. But for the grim reality of 
this act it had been better called De
sire Under the Shrapnel. As Ser
geant Quirk said, Its love after a 
fashion, and its certainly war; and 
anything dirty goes."
William Boyd was quite good as a 
llrst sergeant, and Louis Wolheim 
moreso as Captain Flagg, improving 
ns tho play progressed. His nose is a 
permanent joy, but ho should try to 
forget his former role as the "hairy 
ape" and hold his head erect. Jean
ette Fox-Lee was adequate in the part 
of Charmaine, who knew soldiers bet
ter than English, and loved all of 
them; a Louis Alberni, as her lnnkeoping father gestured and spoke in 
French amusingly in a rich baritone. 
Tho remainder of the cast were suffi
ciently hard-boiled to fulfill the re
quirements.
Woodman Thompson, formerly of 
Carnoglo, designed tho effectively 
drab settings.
HELLO
'iiiiriifiifmiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiuii
aiiiiiiiiimiimmmiiminUl
.....
iiuiuinun
Those first class flays, -when a form of glorified 
home sickness .must be indulged as a proof of 
filial affection, and potting parties arc .justified as 
a sublimation of chronic blues, recall a Carnegie 
custom whose renewal each year has resulted in 
that glorified form of class consciousness known 
as Carnegie Spirit. We refer to tho practice of 
hallooing our friends, which means every mem
ber oJ! the Student Body, as we pass on the campilN.
Unhappily, this traditional custom was drafted 
into tho Plebe Regulations last year, and over the 
protest of many campus worthies, appears again 
this year. It is rather discouraging to think that 
our i<rosh must bo forcod into a pose of cordiality 
.to think that they arc oI! lower caliber than our 
men of the past, devoid of the natural hospitality 
which has marked our associations in previous 
years. This law, if rigidly enforced, will no doubt 
bo received in a negativistic spirit, and result in 
eventual disappearance of tho custom which it 
seeks to perpotuato.
Tho Tartan, in an attitudo of co-operation rath
er than revolt, asks the Froshmon to consider this 
regulation not as a law, but as an ethical duty, to 
be conscientiously enllorced, not by tho Sophomoros, but by thomsolvos.
Upper classmen, lot us not forget that we are 
tho leaders and the example. A word to each 
other, a nod to tho IMebes -wo will all feel better 
whon we fool at home,
PEREGINATIONS"VlHlhitr
A Dirge.
Periodicallyany night on which w<? do not have to 
studywo succumb to the spell of the movies. Hopeful 
and expectant wo thrust our tickets upon the doorman; 
despondent and disillusioned, wo lurch home.
Usually wo arrive just in time for the organludo, preludo, prologuethe name bears 110 slgnillcanceand re
main politely subdudd till the final thunders of the kettlo 
drums dlo away and C Sharp Minor at the Burlitzer or 
Seller/,o Intorniezzo with his orchestra of fifty, drafted 
from local harbor emporiums, rlsos to bow magnificently 
before a bowlldorod audience which applauds automatic
ally because the manager had tho audacity to label the 
mangled selection Tannlmusor.
A llno-bucklng stenographer exhaling spearmint and 
rose geranium, P882XM3 past us with her anvil-faced swain 
iu tow, to grab two seats that might have been ours. The 
mob behind urgos us forward and wo droop over tho re
straining rope while Felix materializes question marks 
ami shy hooks upon the screen.
IJut liolix wins Ills chorlshod chicken dinner and tho 
required happy ending having boon supplied, tho noxt 
number appears. Whats this?
Sids Singing Lesson.
Apparently tho way Barlcus Bloooy and his brother pic
ture magnates would thrust culture upon tho groat Ainer-1 
loan commonwealth. What wondorful Inspiration for our 
choerloadoiB, For instance;
The Pitt game. A huge scroop Is oroctod boforo tho 
Carnoglo stands. No ono minds hocauso only tho fortunato fow who brought Hold glasses can discern tho teams 
anyhow. Ioto Seaman has his binoculars leveled upon tho 
players. Suddenly he whispers to Dick Hauclc at his sldo 
and tho Kilties play tho Alma Materor better, COLL13- 
JIT, for everyone known that- upon tho scroon fiushos: 
Como on hoys,
Lots hoar you!
We'll fling u hit and cheer too.
I FI rat wo'll try a Whoopoo
Together. One, two, three.
The hoy aren't well acquainted with the Whoopoo," 
no Pete and Dlclc consult again, Finally they nod and 
Obold tries slide IIA.
A new ono 
Woll admit.
You havent often had It,
Show thorn how you can cheer.
Yell JX they can hoar.
Huddy 
Said that 
He would give ns C's 
If wo could make you yell loud as Pitt.
'Cos bo's 
Dubious 
Of us.
Lots make Pitt envious 
With a big Accentor 
Together. One, two, threo.
Tills quickly works tho students up to a frenzy and the 
cheerleaders are carried off the field.
But the audience takes more kindly to the idea and each 
is so engrossed in singing that he does -not notice how 
atrociously Ills neighbor functions.
Eventually the big feature appears. After the pro
ducers, directors, photographers, cast, etc., etc., have been 
announced, we lose interest. The plot is as full of the 
unexpected as a "True Story and with about the same 
type of thrills.
Is it then surprising that we barken back to the puerile 
days of tho moving picture with its train wrecks, pistol 
shooting villians, and defiant heroines, to sigh regretfully 
ai their passing? We are tired of languishing lovers, mis
understood husbands, and all the other convolutions of an 
inane psychology which inevitably furnishes the convul
sions of the modern cinema.
(Arrowsmith, by Sinclair Lewis, Harcourt, Brace and Company, 1925.)
The author of Main Street and 
Babbitt has at last produced a 
novel in which his passion for the 
common place justifies itself. Tho 
endless minute details of everyday life 
aro not tiresome nor obtrusive when 
they combine to build such a charac
ter as Arrowsmith.
That young scientist with Ills in
tense curiosity, Ills hero-worship, and 
Ills industry, constantly oppressed by 
the materialism of his fellows, is in
deed fit subject for a materialistic 
novel.
Tho character Is bigger than Babbit, 
and the sotting is broader than Main 
Street. From his modical college and 
hospital training, young Doctor ArrowBinith is forced to become a general 
practitioner in order to support his 
wife. Tho tlmo they spend In her 
homo town oppressed by the deadly 
dullhoss and ignorant, narrow .preju
dice of her pooplo produces a real 
tonsion that Is roloasod with a bang 
upon tholr move to tho city by the 
vivacious loquacity of Arrowsmlths 
now employer, Dr. Alumus Vlckerbamgli, Dlroctor of tho Public Health 
In Nautilus, Iowa. Tho "fighting poet 
Doc and his "'Healthotto Octette" 
comprised of his olght daughters com
bat dlsoaso with >slogana and songs 
of Dr. Plclcorbaughs own composing. 
Hero 1 ono of tho most striking 
lyrics:
"Soli your hammer and1 buy a horn, 
Blit hang on to tho old llyswattor.
If you don't want disease sneaking 
into tho home 
Then to kill tho fly you gottor."
Arrowsmithand the readerare 
sick of the Plckerbaugh family boforo 
Martin's refusal to "shout and hand
shake his way into public favor" 
loads to his dismissal from office. 
This misfortune proves to bo a great 
benefit since it forces him back into 
his natural work in (lie labratory. In 
the heavily endowed McGurlc Institute 
he flnds the same materialism, the 
same preoccupation with money and 
honor that disgusted him in the med
ical profession. However he has time 
to pursue his own experiments and 
with his discovery of a preventive of 
the plague begins a new scene in his 
life. In the colorful West Indies he 
is forced to wage war not only 
against the dread disease, but against 
himself. The grief of the man Ar
rowsmith over the death of his wife 
threatens for a time completely to 
submerge the scientist in him. The 
final issue of that battle within him
self hangs in the balance until the 
very end of the story.
But regardless of the issue of this 
battle, regardless of the frequent evi
dence of laboring compilation of fact 
for the book, regardless of the re
peated emphasizing of the dull ana 
commonplace in the story, at the end 
Ave feel that we have watched the 
development of a living man.
HARRIET MERVIN.
The smallest, most compact most portable PORTABLE
w\th 4-Rpw Standard Keyboard
T
hese decisive advantages have made the New 
Remington Portable the predominant choice 
of students everywhere. Then too, it is excep
tionally durable. It is simple and easy to operate 
in fact, with very little practice you'll soon be
come a fast typist. And its work is so clear, even, 
and beautiful that youll take real pride in your 
essays, notes, and in those letters home.
Call and let us show you the many outstand
ing features of this new machine and explain our 
easy payment plan. Pr\ce, complete w\th case, $60.
Remington Typewriter Go
102 SIXTH STREET
4 Pittsburgh, Pa.
WHAT AllE YOU?
A vigorous protest will greet our assertion that 
tho Flobes are tho most distinguished group on 
tho earn pus. But after trudging to school morn
ing after njorning, loaded to the scuppers with 
books and paraphernalia, only to see brilliant 
Plebe dinks scud past riding majestically beside 
magnanimous sedan owners, our conviction 
stands, and we face Carnegie with the courage 
which truth alone engenders.
The distinctive dress of the Frosh commands a 
full measure of respect among the townspeople. 
Distinctive dress anywhere, if marking a class 
supported by a worthy tradition, is a strong in
centive to unionization, and commands the atten
tion and consideration of all who view it. Skep
tics, what say you of the ICu Klnx Klan?
We appeal, then, for class dress of a classy na
ture. We would like to see the Sophomores and 
Juniors appropriately labeled. We appeal espec
ially, however, to the dignity of the Seniors. Se
nior hats, Senior canes, Senior necktiessome
thing of this nature will soon be proposed. A one 
hundred per cent adoption of the special mark of 
distinction, whatever it may be, will be welcomed 
by the entire student body, and treated with the 
deference due to our future alumni.
Swed\sh Wedd\ng Customs
In Sweden weddings formerly took 
place at night. One wedding super
stition Is that a bride, on leaving home, 
must step Into the carriage with her 
right foot first, and do the same when 
she llrst enters her new home.
MR. ORBIN SPEAKS
With the opening of the school year came the 
Orbin Hurricane, breaking out anew in an unex
pected manner, yet still very much directed to
ward the usual purposeto beautify the campus. 
Large notices on the bulletin boards warn fac
ulty and students that hereafter there shall be no 
parking of cars between the southwest corner of 
the Central Building and the northeast corner of 
the Fine Arts Building. No Parking signs, 
bearing the insignia of the Public Safoty 'Depart
ment of the city of Pittsburgh aro in evidence at 
various intervals on tho restricted territory, and 
city oflicors are seeing that the ordinanoo is en
forced. A rumor Moated to this office that the 
fine for a first violation will be three dollars.
Apropos campus improvement, last spring wo 
witnessed tho transplanting of thousands of trees, 
bushes and plants from freight cars to our cam
pus, a valuable investment in Mr. Orbins scheme 
of beautifying things. Now, with the removal of 
the scarcely respectable car groupings at the most 
important point on the campus, one coming across 
the cut may easily catch a glimpse of Carnegies 
buildings with no undo craning and straining of 
neck and limb. We congratulate Mr. Orbin for 
bringing about this new parking ordinance.
Applied Philology.
Small steaks formerly cost thirty-five cents at the 
Grill. Now they prepare a filet mignon for half a dollar.
The Progress of Higher Learning.
The Puppet appears on the campus today. The upper
classmen will shake their heads and mutter: "Its not
what, is used to be when I was a Plebe."
a L\fet\me
A Happy Myth.
Once upon a time there was a Plebe who asked his 
Senior Counsellor for advice,It gpes to school
Unnumbered thousands of American students 
will enter the classic portals (slan for front 
door) proud owners of Lifetime pens. They 
are rapidly buying them, from better dealers 
everywhere, not only because they have nibs 
that are guaranteed for a lifetime; or because 
they are made of &reen, jade-reen radite, a 
jewel-like material that is beautiful and practi
se cally indestructiblebut they are buying
them because of their dependable performance.
Pr\cc, SS.75 Students spec\al, $7.50 Others lower 
"L\fet\me" T\tan overs\ze penc\l to match, $4.25
Shcaflcr Skr\psuccessor to \nkmakes all pens wr\te better
The bu.rial of the hatohot. onco Bigniflod tho pledging of 
a formal peace, Now that It servo merely as tho prologue 
for th generai moloo which follows, wouldnt it ho bettor 
to bury a nice clean bone?OU READ the
Osygt FgAAPISe rdPerhaps il is due to the absence of any opening 
assembly. Tho welcome of the administration, 
the greetings of the student council, have not 
been proffered this year. While as uninteresting 
and as hackneyed as the usual salutation of a let
ter. yet they compose a formal recognition of ob
ligations to be assumed and messages to be con
veyed, the absence of which unsettles us.
That the officials of the institution have failed 
to lender us a formal welcome, gives the impres
sion that their interest in us is, a consequence only' 
of the necessity of earning a livelihood, and van
ishes when the days work is done. Of course, 
this is hardly true, yet we feel a trifle piqued 
that only the Freshmen should be considered 
worthy of the effort attendant upon organizing 
the rites for an open-armed reception with well 
wishes and injunctions for the coming year. 
Without these, how can we fail but to stray from 
the path toward erudition?
You are reading thla oneC 
That should convince you 
that advertising In theeo 
columns is a profitable 
proposition; that it wl 
bring business to you* 
store. Tho fact that the 
other fellow advertises is 
probably the reason he is 
getting more business thaa 
is falling to you. Would 
it not be woll to give 
the other fellow a chance
ARENT WE WELCOME?
The school year is under way again, and^as 
usual, tliere seems to have been no sudden altera
tion in our lives calling for readjustment. The 
calendar says that this is the fifth day of 
classes, but some inner instinct insists that classes 
have been going on forever. The absence of any 
novel sensation is quite distressing.
PENS* PENCILS  SKRIP
W. A SHEAFFER PEN COMPANYPORT MADISON. IOWATo Read Your A I 
in These Columns?:
