BASKET BALL 
BETHANYMONDAY j 
WASH-JEFFTUESDAY j
CHAPEL SERVICES 
TOMORROW, 11:40 
ARTS THEATER
VOL. XVII. NO. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1923
DR. HARKINS TO 
LECTURE HERE 
ON ISOTOPES
SCIENCE JUNIORS ELIGIBLE
FOR SMITH SCHOLARSHIP
Nationally-Known Chemist is 
Authority on Constitution 
of MatterHas Conducted 
Many Original Researches
SPEAKS MARCH 7, 8, 9
Dr. William Draper Harkins, the 
eminent chemist who will lecture at 
Carnegie March 7 3 and 9, has had 
an active career in connection with 
his work in the advancement of. 
Science. A native of Titusville, Pa., 
he is now nationally known for his 
contributions in the field of chem
ical research. The study of atoms 
has occupied Dr. Harkins attention, 
and his research discoveries in this 
field of work have given him pre
eminence among scientists of today.
He was educated at Stanford Uni
versity, receiving his A. B. degree in 
1900, and his Ph. D. degree in 1907. 
He has conducted advauced studies, 
also at the University of Chicago, 
Massachusetts, and in Germany.
Dr. Harkins taught chemistry at 
Stanford for two years and then went 
to the University of Montana, where 
he was head of the Chemistry De
partment. from 1900 to 1912. While 
at Montana he became widely known 
as a scientist and was called upon 
l>y various organizations and commis
sions for his professional advice and 
service. During this time lie served 
as chemist in charge of smelter 
smoke investigation for the Anacon
da Farmers Association, Mountain 
Copper Company of California, and 
the United States Department of 
Chemistry. In 1911 he conducted im
portant research work for the Carne
gie .Institute in Washington. In 1912 
Di\ Harkins was called to the faculty 
at Chicago University, and since 1917 
he has been professor of physical 
chemistry.
Dr. Harkins is well known among 
the chemists of the Pittsburgh dis
trict.. In 1916-1917, he served as 
Professional Lecturer at Mellon In
stitute of Industrial Research. ' Since 
(Continued on Page Two.)
St. Patricks Day is a day when all 
engineers celebrate and so this year 
on the evening of Saturday, March 17, 
the men from the College of Engi
neering will hold their annual Science 
Stag Smoker. All upperclassmen 
know what this event is but a word 
might be said to the Plebes about it. 
This stag smoker is to the engineer 
as the Arts Ball is to the students 
from the College of Fine Arts. No 
one but students in the College of 
Engineering are allowed to attend. 
Besides the usual smokes and eats, 
each class puts on a stunt and handssome prizes are awarded for the best 
stunts. Last year the Senior won the 
first prize and it is doubtful if any
one present will ever forget their 
act. Also at this time Tau Beta Pi 
will make their Junior elections and 
there will be two or three short 
speeches from prominent men here at 
school. So Plebes it is up to you to 
give your class 100 per cent attend
ance and learn more about the tradi
tions here at Carnegie Tech.
Each class president is asked to 
appoint a committee to take charge 
of their stunt and this should be done 
immediately because there is just a 
little more than two weeks left before 
this event. Tags for the smoker will 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Ross Hertz Resigns 
As Head Cheer Leader
Student Council Authorizes 
Olsen as Successor
The resignation of Ross Hertz as 
head cheerleader was acepted. Hertz 
is not in school this semester. Andy 
Olson was authorized to take charge 
of the cheering for the remainder of 
the year and to conduct the cheer
leader classes which will be started 
soon for the training of new cheer
leaders.
Edward Brand was appointed chair
man of-a committee made up of four 
members from each school to conduct 
the Student Friendship Drive this 
year. The drive will start with the 
next General Assembly and 'will last 
for twenty-iour hours. Tags will be 
sold for any amount during the drive. 
The committee hopes to realize more 
than was raised last year, when over 
seven hundred dollars were realized.
The Campus Week Committee was 
advanuced seventy dollars to pay the 
guarantee on the Schenley Theater 
and other preliminary bills.
New Carnegie Songs to 
Be Sung at Assembly
As a special treat to the students, 
the Song Book Committee has an
nounced that several of the songs will 
be given as part of the program at the 
next General Assembly, March 14. 
The new song Carnegie Tech, 
which was written by J. M. Hodsowich, who also wrote the lyrics, will 
be sung by S. B. Murphy, tenor solo
ist of the Mens Glee Club. A second 
song by Mr. Murphy will be Hail 
Carnegie. This song is of particu
lar interest, for it was written by a 
present student. Wayne Koppes 
wrote the lyrics and the music, and 
it was harmonized by Matt Frey.
Some of the students will remem
ber the production Ship Ahoy which 
was given two years ago, and if so, 
they will recall that the song Moon
light Maid was the big hit of the 
production. Bob Schmertz wrote the 
words, and Arthur Murrough ONeill 
composed the music. This song will 
be sung by J. L. Gumbert, of the mu
sic department, and baritone soloist 
of the Mens Glee Club.
As a final number the two men, Mr. 
Murphy and Mr. Gumbert will sing 
the new Alma Mater, after which the 
entire Assembly will sing this ver
sion of the Alma Mater. It is time 
that the students know the new ar
rangement by J. Vic OBrien, and this 
opportunity will be taken to teach it 
to them.
One of the new songs written by T.
S. Repplier, lyrics by W. Schlumpf, is 
represented here.
The Glory of the Plaid.
Far ahove us ever glorious,
Emblem fair of Carnegie, 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Juniors of the College of Engineering 
Attention!
The application blanks for the 
George H. Smith Scholarship are still 
available in the Alumni Office. Here's 
an opportunity to get your tuition 
free. Come forth, worthy Juniors, 
and take advantage of this offer.
GRADE SYSTEM 
EXPLAINED BY 
PSYCHOLOGISTS
SCIENCE STAG ON 
ST. PATRICKS EVE
Work on the Various Class 
Stunts Must Start Im
mediately
Dr. Baker Makes Three 
Speeches in Cleveland
Dr. Baker spoke at three meetings 
in Cleveland last Friday and Satur
day. On Friday, afternoon he ad
dressed the Juniors and Seniors at 
East Technical High School. Friday 
evening Dr. Baker was the guest and 
speaker at the Cleveland Clan of Car
negie Tech graduates, when they held 
a dinner and meeting in the Hotel 
Cleveland.
On Saturday night at the Union, 
Club, Dr. Baker discussed The Col
lege Man of Today at the annual 
meeting of Beta Theta Pi fraternity. 
Other speakers at the fraternity re
union were William B. Owen, presi
dent of the National Education Asso
ciation; John Calvin Hanna, Spring
field, 111, past president of the general 
fraternity; J. Stanley Brown, presi
dent of State College, DeKalb, 111.; 
and J.. Harold Brennan, of Wheeling, 
W. Va.
Gambol of the Guilds 
Takes on a New Garb
The fourth annual Gambol- of the 
Guilds was held in the Union, Friday 
night, February 24.
The Gambol of the Guilds is given 
by the College of Industries, and is 
given for all Carnegie. The first two 
gambols were strictly Industries af
fairs and those attending wore over
alls and Mother Hubbard dresses. 
The past two gambols have been open 
to the whole school and have proved 
very successful.
Dancing occupied the major part of 
the evening, but a very interesting 
program of specialty numbers by Obie 
Newman wras also rendered. The 
numbers of the program and the 
dances were called from a proclama
tion written in Old English style and 
script, on a scroll. Music of the best 
kind was furnished for the evening 
by Eve Hughes Collegiate Eight.
The gambol was well attended by 
the students and several members of 
the faculty were present as patrons.
Refreshments of lemonade and gin* 
ger snaps were served throughout 
the evening.
The committee to whom all credit 
for this most successful gambol are: 
Powrie, chainnan; McDonald, Rohrbaclc, Owen Jones and Schillinger.
Extra Prom Favors to 
Be Sold in Commons
The Prom favors for those men 
who ordered extras so send home to 
the "little sister or to the best 
girl who couldnt come down/' are 
now in the hands of the committee, 
and they may be had Wednesday, 
Thursday! or Friday of this week 
from 11:30 to 1:30, in the Commons.
The committee has received a few 
additional favors and these will be 
sold at the same time, the price of 
the favors is $2.50. Cash with each 
order.
A-BCD-E
ClassI (191S-1919).2550
ClassII (1919-1920)..22026
ClassIll (1920-1921).131514'
404040
Students Marked on Basis of 
Quality of Work Com
pared With Others in Same 
Class
RULE MISLEADING
Much misunderstanding of the sys
tem of grade marking employed by 
the professors in the various depart
ments has led to the writing, of this 
article in an effort to make this sys
tem clear in the minds of the stu
dents.
The system now in use is of a 
comparative nature in which the stu
dent is marked, not so much on the 
numerical grades which he may make, 
but rather on the quality of his 
work compared to the other students 
of that class. The general belief of 
the students is that the marks of a 
class are divided into three equal 
parts: the upper third being A and 
Bs; the middle third C's, and the 
lower third D and E's.
This is not so. For instance: If 
a particular class is brighter than 
the average run of students which 
an instructor has in a subject over 
a series of semesters, then in jus
tice to the students there should be 
a higher percentage of high grades. 
If on the other hand a particular 
class is .lower in ability than the av
erage run of students which an in
structor has in that subject over a 
series of semesters, it is necessary 
that a larger percentage of low 
grades be given. In the long run, 
therefore, these marks should bal
ance themselves. A strong class one 
year will tend to balance a weak one 
at another time.
For instance, an instructor may 
have three classes to which he gives 
grades as follows, and in so doing 
he still conforms to the grading sys
tem.
Theoretically these grades would 
be just if Class I were unusually 
bright, Class II unusually dull, and 
Class III  about average in ability. 
The total grades of the three semes
ters conform completely to the rule.
(Continued On Page Two.)
INTER-HONORARY DANCE 
HELD IN UNION, FEB. 21
Fifty couples attended the Intex-- 
Honorary Dance Wednesday, February 
21, in the Union. Appropriate deco
rations of palms and lanterns harmon
ized with the emblems of the various 
societies represented.
Obie Newman, singing "Mighty 
Like a Rose, was roundly applaud
ed. Palms and tables were combined 
in one end of the Union to form a 
restful garden effect.
The Annual Inter-Honorary Dance 
is the big event of the year for the 
Honorary Societies, composed of Tau 
Peta Pi, Alpha Tau, Sphinx, Tau Sig
ma Delta, Alpha Alpha Nu, Dragon, 
Delta Skull and Druid.
This years dance was sponsored by 
the Druids with a committee com
posed of E C. Frazier and Don Gard
ner. Ted Hughes, Wayne Koppes 
and Dick Cutting supervised in the 
design and construction of the deco
rations.
Chemical Films Shown
At Science Assembly
Th Science Assembly last week 
was held in Room 218. Jack Evans 
opened the assembly by requesting a 
minutes silence while all were stand
ing in memory of one of our com
rades, Mr. L. M. Landis whose death 
is announced elsewhere in the Car
negie Tartn.
An appeal was made for the 
classes to get busy and arrange 
stunts for the annual Science Stag 
Smoker.
Through the co-operation of Mr. 
Miller of the chemistry department 
the assembly committee had secured 
some excellent films which were 
shown by Mr. Miller. To the accom
paniment of piano music produced by 
Rigelmeyer, the production of soap, 
porcelain, and pottery was fully ex
plained. The generous applause greet
ed Mr. Rigelmeyers efforts on the 
piano, and one must hope that we 
shall, in the not too distant future, 
have an instrument of better quality.
The assembly closed with the sing
ing of the Alma Mater.
RADIO CLUB WILL ELECT
OFFICERS THIS EVENING
The Radio Club will hold its mid
year election of officers on Wednes
day, February 28, at 7:30 p. m. in 
Room 104 Machinery Hall. There are 
several important topics to be dis
cussed at this meeting and all mem
bers are urged to be present.
PROGRAMS FOR TODAY'S
ASSEMBLIES ANNOUNCED.
COME! YOU ARE NEEDED
Arts Assembly.
Little Theater, Wednesday, Feb
ruary 28, 11:30 p. m.
Announcements.
MusicTwo banjos.
StuntsHarry Nurvis, Jack Will
ard. Rest of program undetermined,
Industries Assembly.
Room 104Wednesday, February 
2S, 12:30 p. m.
Report of Industries Executive 
Council.
Orchestra.
Old and new business.
Science Assembly.
Room 21SWednesday, February 
28, 11:30 p. m.
Announcements.
Report of Science Stag Commit
tee.
Songs.
Films, Winter Sports, Water Power 
in Canada, Alma Mater.
TICKETS FOR SOPH 
HOP ON SALE NOW
Mason-Dixon Orchestra Will 
EntertainAssessment 
is Three Dollars
With the Mason Dixon Orchestra of 
eleven pieces assured, and plans com
pleted to transform the Arts Foyer 
into a riot of color and mellow lights, 
tho social committee of the Class of 
'25 guarantee thi3 year's hop to be 
something which those who attend 
will never forget.
The ticket sales campaign for the 
Soph Hop has opened, and the tickets 
are going like wildfire. Each school 
has been given a definite number of 
tickets to distribute, and the social 
committee of each school has charge 
of the sale. Inasmuch as thoro are 
but two hundred tickets to bo dis
posed of on the entire campus, there 
will be no doubt, some difficulty in 
giving every Sophomore a chance to 
get a ticket. Tile sale will bo con
fined to Sophomores until noon 
(Continued on Page Two.)
COL. BOYDEiji LECTURES 
ON CONCRETE HIGHWAYS
No road will stand the present day 
traffic without the use of concrete 
either as a base or for total construc
tion. Those words formed the key
note of a lecture on Concrete High
way Investigations and Specifica
tions, by Col. H. C. Boydon before 
the Carnegie student.chapter A. S. C.
E. last week.
Col. Boydon gave some very Inter
esting Information concerning the 
construction of concrete highways in 
the United States where there are at 
present eight hundred and ilfty-flvo 
millions of dollars invested in such 
construction. Over two-thirds of this 
work has been done in tho last fivo 
years. The bearing power of the subgrade is an important consideration 
and care should be taken to make it 
uniform the entire width of the road
bed.
Investigations have shown that a 
seven-inch pavement has sufficient 
strength for all present day traffic. 
The life of the slab is increased by in(Continued on Page Two.)
Tri Lambda, BIdg. Const. 
Fraternity Prelim. Held
Friday past, saw the first prelimi
nary to the final installation of the 
mystical Building Construction Pro
fessional Fraternity, Tri Lambdas. 
This first preliminary taking place in 
the banquet hall of one of the prin
cipal buildings of a subsidiary of the 
United States Steel Corporation.
Due to the long severe ride in an 
open truck with only two army blan
kets of very poor construction, the 
Tri Lambs could only muster'together 
the active brothers and one of the 
faculty brothers, Rolls Sweet Larkin 
being the only one able to attend 
Brother Stulin and Young being un
able to absent themselves from school 
to attend the banquet.
The ride to and fro in a springless 
service track, the temperature hover
ing at eight degrees, and the strong 
blasts of King Winter proved to be 
as rigid an initiation as that of any 
Social Greek Letter Fraternity. An 
Alpha Tau attempted to stow him
self into the midst, and was found af
ter a few minutes of travel and fin
ished the trip with the two army blan
kets of poor construction and his 
shoes taken away from him.
MISS LAURA SCALES, FORMER 
DEAN OF WOMEN ENTERTAINED
Miss Laura Scales, Dean of Women 
last year at, Carnegio Tech was en
tertained with a tea at Forbes Ilall 
last Sunday afternoon. Miss Scales 
was spending the week-end In Pitts
burgh, and the girls among whom she 
is very popular through her work last 
year, took advantage of this oppor
tunity to express their appreciation. 
Miss Scales is at present occupying 
the chair of Dean of Women at Smith 
College this year.
About forty girls were present, 
among whom were representatives of 
every girls dormitory. Refreshments 
were served.
MUSICAL CLUBS 
TAKE ANOTHER 
TRIP THIS WEEK
Will Entertain Populace of 
Erie, Buffalo and Corry on 
Northern SallySuccessful 
Ohio Trip Reported
DANCE IN BUFFALO
The Carnegie Musical Clubs will 
hop off Thursday on another week
end trip. The1 clubs just returned 
Sunday from a four-day trip through 
Ohio, a trip which was exceedingly 
successful from both the financial nnd 
entertaining standpoints.
This weeks trip will include three 
concerts. The first stop will be made 
at Erie whore a concert and dance 
will be given Thursday night in the 
Central High School by the Senior 
class. The big concert will be held 
the next night in the Twentieth Cen
tury Club at Buffalo under the au
spices of the Inter-Fraternity Council 
of Buffalo. Following the concert the 
Tech Novelty Orchestra will play for 
the annual inter-fraternity ball which 
will last until three a. m. This allnight dance will probably put plenty 
of pep in the fellows for the concert 
Saturday night In Corry, after which 
the. club will return to Pittsburgh. 
The club members will bo housed at 
tho homes of members of tho Car
negie Clans while on this trip.
Over eighteen hundred people at
tended the four Ohio concerts, and, 
without a doubt, f6w went away with
out securing genuine enjoyment from 
tho music and dances. Needless to 
say the club mombers had a good 
time.
Forty-one men climbed on the 
Penrisy special coach Wednesday 
noon, to mako tho Ohio trip.
Orrvlllo was reached about four-' 
thirty and since most of tho fellows 
expected that tho station would bo 
crowded with girls most of them were 
disappointed. Eagle Eye Bill Reilly 
proved himself a fast worker by spot
ting two girls boforo tho gang had 
walked a block past tho station.
The concort that night In tho High 
School auditorium was a success in 
every way, most, of the credit belong
ing to IT. A. P. Bliss of tho High 
School faculty and a graduate of Toch 
who arranged all of, the details. Tho 
audience was especially well ploasod 
with the rendering of violin arid collo 
solos and by the humorous sketches 
offered by the Gloo Club.
(Continued on Page Four.)
* *
Dr. W. R. Farmer of the * 
'*: Western Theological Seminary, * 
will be the speaker at. chapel 4* 
tomorrow at 11: -10, Arts Thea- 5* 
ter. *
J- Dr. Farmer Is a learned man 
I* and a good talker. He will say !* 
a few tilings that will be direct ? 
I and practical. This is chapel * 
?I* day and we want to fill tho thea- * 
ter. *+ *
PUPPET CONTEST 
ENTRIES SENT IN
New Men Send in Some Good 
ContributationsTootin 
Number is Next
FINAL OF BASKET BALL 
DANCES TO BE MARCH 3
The augmented Collegiate Six has 
been secured to play for tho final bas
ket ball danco of tho year, which will 
bo hold In tho Union, Saturday even
ing.
Basket ball dances this year have 
not proven as successful as formerly, 
duo to campus competition. Those 
dances are hold for tho benefit of tho 
C. I. T. Athletic Association, and as 
a slight token of tho appreciation of 
tho student body for tho deeds of 
their athletes.
The Collegiate Six, Carnegie Techs 
own orchestra have Increased their 
number to eight musicians, and they 
are desirous of giving Carnegie Toch 
students the first opportunity of hear
ing their new organization playing an 
entirely different program of music.
The dance will begin immediately 
after the basket ball game, and tho 
committee is attempting to make this 
the best basket ball dance of the 
season.
, nl:.Luther M. Landis, Student, 
Dies After Short Illness
The College of Engineering paid 
tribute at the Science Assembly of 
last Wednesday, to the memory of L. 
M. Landis, Junior in Commercial En
gineering, who died at the St. Francis 
Hospital, on Tuesday morning, Feb
ruary 20.
Luther Minter Landis was born at 
Harrisburg, February 3, 1904. His 
father was the late Charles E. Landis, 
of 1630 Green Street, Harrisburg. Lan
dis was graduated from Harrisburg 
Technical High School in 1920. He 
came to Carnegio Tech in the fall of 
the same year and entered the College 
of Engineering, later specializing in 
Commercial Engineering. He was a 
member of the Beta Theta Pi Frater
nity, the Druid Honorary Fraternity, 
and was active around the campus.
The sickness of Mr, Landis dated 
from Saturday, February 10, when he 
was confined to his bed. He refused 
to have a doctor until Monday, when 
Dr. Marks, tho school physician, at
tended him. On Tuesday Mr. Landis 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
PRES. BAKER GIVE8 RECEPTION 
FOR TAU BETA PI MEMBER8
President Thomas S. Baker will 
hold a reception in. his office next 
Saturday afternoon from 4 to 0 
o'clock, for the members of Tau Beta 
PI fraternity. All student members 
and faculty members of this hon
orary fraternity have been invited 
and are expected to be there.
"The entries for the Annual Judge 
College Wits Number have been all 
sent away, and I wish to thank all the 
Carnegie students who have helped 
Puppet to enter this contest, said 
James K. Matter, Editor-in-chief of 
Puppet, when he was asked concern
ing the part that Carnegio will play 
In the national contest. Although wo 
did not receive all the help that we 
desired or expected from the student 
body, wo did receive a great number 
of contributions for tho contest from 
men that have never contributed to 
Puppet before. The contest has 
shown that there are some good wits 
at Carnegie.
The next issue will bo the 'Tootin 
number. As most of tho upper class
men know, tho Tootin number Is one 
of tho best numbers that Is put out 
by Puppet and Is produced with a 
groat deal of effort on tho part' of the 
Puppet staff and Puppet contributors.
Puppet would lilco to see some, of 
tho now men contribute to tills num
ber. The new men have shown that 
they have the ability, and only need 
to put a little effort with It to win 
for themselves a position on the staff 
and activities points. Think up some 
good onoB and send thorn to 'tho 
poatofflco, care of Puppot.
New Professor Teaches 
M. M. Costume Economics
Miss Ruth Jakway has arrived hero 
to tako up her appointment as As
sistant. Professor ol! Costumo Econom
ics, In the Margaret Morrison Carnoglo College. She succoods Miss 
Mary G. Ingorsoll, who recently re
signed.
Miss Jakway comes to Carnegio di
rect from Cornell Unlvorslly, under a 
special arrangement with tho Cornell 
authorities, under whom she had 
taught in tho Costumo Economics De
partment for two years. 'She Is a 
graduate of tho University of Nebras
ka and of tho Teachers College at 
Columbia University where she recol veil her A. M. degree. Miss Jak
way spoilt sovoral years travollng 
throughout this country and In Europo In connection with her studios in 
costumo design and economics, and 
has made a special study of toxtllos.
Mr. Staley Speaks Tues. 
To Physics Colloquium
The Physics Colloquium mot on 
Tuesday, February 20, when Mr. 
Staloy of the Margaret Morrison divi
sion spoke on the disappearance of 
hydrogen In vacuum discharge tubes. 
He described the very interesting 
phenomena connected with active liy* 
drogen. It appears that a hydrogen 
molecule I-I3, corresponding to ozone, 
Is . formed under certain conditions. 
This has been called by analogy 
liyzone. A great deal of work on 
the chemical reactions that go on In
side a discharge tube has been per
formed by the General Electric Com
pany in England.
At the same meeting Mr. E. R. 
Owen, student physicist, spoke on 
measurements of the resistance of 
glass carried on at the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology. A study of 
the effect of absorbed gas was made. 
Great precautions were taken to 
eliminate the effects of surface con
duction. It was found that the reslst(Contlnued on Page Two.)
STEFFEN BACK; 
RALLY SET FOR 
SUNDAY NOON
Students to Welcome Wally 
Steffen Sunday Noon at 
Field House. Band With 
Kilts Will Be Present
WATCH FOR POSTERS
On Sunday, noon, 12:00 sharp, 
March 4, the Carnegie Tech students 
and Pittsburgh Alumni will be given 
an opportunity to show just how* 
great they want Wally Stoffen to re
turn to Carnegie Tech next fall as 
footbal coach. At that time in front 
of the Field House will be held a 
big student rally to welcome Wally 
Staffen and give him a few dozen or
WALLY" STEFFEN
so rousing cheers of wolcomo, just as 
a strong reminder that all of Carne
gie Tech's students want him back 
to ooaoh tho Tartan football team 
next fall. Tho band will bo thoro 
clad In tholr new Kiltlo cuamtno! 
Tho cheerleaders will be thoro! You 
will bo thoro! You will have your 
healthiest voice, and lomlost singing 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Dramatists Produce 
Stevens Shagreen
Play Based on Balzacs Story 
"The Wild Asss Skin"
A. new play called Shagreen" writ
ten by Professor Thomas Wood Stev
ens will be produced at Carnegie Tech 
by tho Drama students, boglnnlng this 
wook. "Shagreen, according to Proi'ossor Stevens, is based upon Bal
zac's story La Peau do Chagrin, or 
"Tho Wild Asss Skin. It Is a drama 
with a mystical theme tolling tho 
story of Raphael do Valonlltio, a poet, 
who Is given an asss skin, for a talis
man, and with which no can obtain 
any wish he cares to mako. Tho pro
vision attachod to the realization of 
ills wishes, Is, however, that tho skin 
will shrink according to the granting 
of each wish, each- measurement, of 
shrinkage representing a commensu
rate shortening of Ills life.
The play is written in three scenos, 
most of which are laid in Paris In 
tho year of 1830. The background of 
the story Is political journalism. Mr. 
Stevens has not confined himself to 
the original characters of tho story 
upon which the play Is based, but has 
written into it Beveral of Balzacs 
more famous characters.
Thirty-five students will take part 
in tho production, and because of the 
large number of players it is one of 
the biggest presentations of the year 
at the school. Jack Willard is cast 
in the play as de Valentine. Bernard 
S/.old plays Rastignac, one of Balzacs 
best known characters. Other Im
portant parts will bo played by Janet 
Willis, Bess Johnson, Ellen Lowe, 
Elizabeth Sowersby, Mary Brown, 
Harry Mervis, George Hoag, O. B. 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Eva Fay Chronicles Astounding
Progress of Carnegies New Gym
Always on the lookout for news up 
to the minute and up past the min
ute, a Carnegie Tartan reporter jour
neyed to the shrine of Eva Fay when 
the gym committee failed him, and 
reports that that modern seer di
vulged to him tho following authorita
tive Information as to tho progress of 
the gymnasium.
Hearken well, all yo scoffers, who 
claim that the gym committee Is lay
ing down on the Job, and peruse the 
following masterpiece of prognosti
cation, as revealed by Eva Fay (her
self, not a motion picture).
February 15, 1023: Architect Horn* 
hostel statofl plans will be couiplotod 
In near future.
March 15, 1923: Cyrn plans aro
comploted.
March 20, 1923: Federated alumni
building committee criticizes gym 
plans. Looks too much like the 
mens dormitories.
March 22, 1923: Students have indignlatlon meeting. We want our 
gym, is cry.
March 23, 1923: F. A. B. C. an
swers, "Tako It and be damned."
March 30, 1923: PlanB are submit
ted for bids.
May 30, 1.923: No bids within
means of ondowment have boon forth
coming,
June 25, 1923: Building committee 
decldos to postpone work till Septem
ber.
October 5, 1023: Committee re
sumes work,
November 10, 1028: Committee roturns plans to architect lor revision 
with view of lowering cost,
December 22, 1023: Architect sub
mits idea of loavlnfe roof off swim
ming pool, for, "If It rains they'll bo 
wet anyhow and If it freezes they 
can play hockey."
January 5, 1924: Committee ac
cepts Hornbostels alternative after 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1923
S CarmgtE ITartan
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Inntltute 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ...................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHiland 858.H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0211
BDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
I-lazing, as it is commonly under 
stood, Is taboo at Li. 8. C. The ex
ecutive committee agreed that 
more force shall be used In enforce
KENNETH ARNOLD .... .".777.7.7.. .17.7"'^ .17..'................ Associate Editor iK Trojan traditions, other than that
H. F. SIMPSON .......................................................................................... Associate Editor! which shall be specifically outlined
COMMENTS
IN SUPPORT OP
PLEBE REGULATIONS
ROAMINS
II. F. DIETER...................................................................................................Assodato Editor
MARK S. DOWNES................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHa/,el 0398
FRED C. SMITH.......................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHlland 8118-J
FRED T. PHELPS...................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
H. H. WILSON .....................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHa/,el 935C
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
R. B. KELLER............................................................................................ Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSI, JR...........................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER ............................................................................................ Special Writer
by a u,b-eommIttee appointed to look 
further into Dio methods of enforc
ing traditions and make a report to 
the executive committee soon.
J. M. COOPER................................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
J. C. MAJOR ....................................................................................... Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. (!. McKenzie, L. Hort/,man, F. D, Rossini, W. Winning, L. D. Richards, 
A. F. Andrews, B. DeMaro, E. 6. Elgle, A. E. Krogh, A. I. Isaacs, R, G. 
Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Rossback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudlg, D. Moskovltz, J. W. 
Metro, P. W. Reilly, II. Gibson, W. A. Jaclco, P. Edie, R. L. Sandroek, B. 
Broudy, II. Urschel.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor for the make up.
the
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Slgnaturo will be withhold If desired. All news Items must be in the student 
postollice before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OfllceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Ofllce hoursTuesday,
STUDENT CHAPEL SERVICE
Carnegie needs chapel services but the students will not re
spond to any appeal, to attend; only a handful were present the last 
time. This condition is somewhat discouraging to the people inter
ested in chapel.
It hardly seems prolmble that the students can not find time to 
come when Dr. Baker, who is very busy, can arrange to conduct the 
services.
The trouble is that the average college student thinks that he is 
so good, that religion is something he does not need. Religion is 
often considered too lightly and not given much .serious thought 
while away from home influence.
This weelc wo aro going to try to fill the Arts theater. This is 
not anticipating too much, because the place only seats around four 
hundred people. Out of the student body and faculty this is a small 
percentage, but .judging from the past attendance this is aiming 
pretty high. Wo hopo that some few more will come, even if it only 
be for curiosity. The services last about twenty minutes, so if any 
one is disappointed they will not be out much.
FOREIGN STUDY AND TRAVEL
The students horo appear to be interested in foreign study and 
travel; some are planning on spending their summer abroad; some 
anticipating a trip across after graduation. There is a good opportu
nity to study in liurope now, because of the numerous inducements 
offered Americans by foreign governments of that continent,
The older civilization across the water has cultural advantages 
that can not bo obtained in our schools. Studying the different poopie and their custums will broaden a students view on humanity.
STUDENT COURTESY
Two prominont profosspis in a. discussion rocently ngreod that 
Carnegie students woro very discourteous; to whom we do not know. 
However, there is some truth in tlieir accusation; students becomo 
careless and forget to consider others. Courtesy brings friends and 
consequently it pays to be considerate,
Student Calendar
....7 :()(). Union
\VMDNB8DAY, KKItHOAUY 28
Mfifeionl Club Rolioartml.......................................................
THURSDAY, M AUCHI I
Olinpol .........................................................................32:00, Arts Then lor
Dnimn -SJiiigroan (private pnrfonmimiu).........8:15, Arts Thoater
Band 1rnctieo..........................................................7:()(), Camogio Union
Musical Club Concert.....................................................................Brio, la.
Fill DAY, MARCH: 2
DramaShngroon.................................................8:10, Arts a'lioator
Musical Club Concert...........................................................Buffalo, N. Y.
SATURDAY, MARCH 3
DramaShagreen.................................................8:15, Arts Theater
MONDAY, MARCH 5
Buskct BallBethany vs. Carnegie............................8:00, Field 1-Iouso
TUESDAY, MARCH 0
Basket BallW. & .T. vs. Carnegie...............................8:00, Field House
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, MARCH 0, 7, 8
DramaShagreen................................................. 8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 9
DanceSoph Hop.....................................................9:00, Arts Foyer
SATURDAY, MARCH 10
Drama"Shagreen (Student, Night).....................8:15, Arts Theater
SUNDAY, MARCH 11 
RecitalDepartment, of Music...................................8:15, Arts Theater
Roamer is in receipt of an interest
ing letter from oither a Maggie 
Murph or a Fine Arts co-ed. The ma
terial in the letter would indicate 
that this fair co-ed broke her arm pat
ting herself on the back and as a re
sult used such poor English that the 
editors deem it unwise to publish the 
letter In its entirety.
A few remarks in the letter border 
on the humorous and are reproduced 
for that reason. She says Theres 
Tho using of brute force Is object-. no(_ a finer bunch of college girls than 
d to by several student leaders be-. tjie jviaggie Murplis, good lookers and
cause they InsIsL that students golii, 
to a University ought to be prompted j 
by their own ideals and their own 
sense of what is right. Tho conten
tion Is that force Inculcates tho spirit 
of resistance by force. To see the 
numerous Freshmen on tho campus 
enjoy being tabbed, and afterwards 
reflecting with pleasure on the free 
bath they, were forced to lake, would 
incline one to bolieve that the en
forcement of traditions is a pleasure 
to all but a few eccentric individuals 
whose estimations of tlieir own im
portance Is out of proportion to what 
the normal individual thinks of them. 
But those few Individuals are the 
who cause the undesirable re
flections on the enforcement of tradi
tions by force and, sometimes It be
comes necessary to give them more 
consideration than they deserve. This 
is true, particularly, of the incident 
which happened Wednesday.
Dr. von KleiiiSmids pea that force 
should not be used to enforce tradi
tions should be observed. Whatever 
the student body thinks about forcing 
the Freshmen to wear their caps, the 
fact remains that sensational reports 
of riots and indiscriminate firing of 
guns, with the battering down of 
doors and the flowing of pools of 
blood Is taken seriously by the read
ing public, which reflects upon the 
University of South California in such 
a manner that before long the Tro
jan institution would gain an unde
sirable reputation throughout the 
country.
When the latter side is considered, 
one is prone to lean too far in the 
idealization of traditions enforce
ment in an effort to pacify the pub
lic. The wholesale use of brute 
force is conducive lo rash acts, true, 
for there are always those who can
not resist tho pulse to plunder or 
the taunt of an Irrational under
classman. For that reason mob ac
tion Is a .serious problem and should 
be eliminated from me itinerary of 
the U. S. C. student. The moderate 
use of force under tho older and 
more skillful hands, limited to the 
punishment of small numbers at the 
time of breaking of the traditions, 
the Trojan" believes is justifiable.
The respect shown the United 
Slates by nations in Europe is based 
largely upon tho amount of force 
which the vVmerlcans can muster to 
enforce their views. A head of a 
firm must have the authority to 
can' his employes or his wishes 
are glvon but littlo consideration by 
them. Tho student body as a whole 
must have the power to make tho 
FroHlnnan respect what has gone be
fore and become traditions or tho 
Freshman would fall to recognize tho 
authority of the student body, ideal
ization Is all right, but Freshmen are 
not idols, Bantering is one mol,hod 
of making the ordinary frosh remem
ber that ho has not attained the dig
nify of a Senior, that collogo is not 
a continuance of high school, and 
that ho is Just beginning all ovor In 
a world of bltfgor and broader things.
The Southern California Trojan.
peppy kids. Instead of taking our 
own Maggies to the dances, the fel
lows import girls who could not hold 
a candle to the Tech girls.
The writer continued to say that 
some fellows prefer a hlclc of a town 
girl who never went to college to 
snappy looking college girl to bring 
to our dances.
Roamer cannot sympathize with the 
author of the letter on this point. 
What matters it whether the girl goes 
to college or not. College does not 
make the girl, neither does a girls at
tendance at college necesarily make 
her congenial and good company.
In closing her letter this particular 
female suggests a date bureau.
Not a bad idea.
A file might be kept in the Deans 
ofllce with tintype pictures of all our 
snappy looking Maggie Murphs ar
ranged' alpliobetically.
On days previous to dances there 
would be a grand rash on the Deans 
ofllce. Excited members of the male 
sex would make a dash for the flle, 
pull out the picture of their favorite 
species, fill out a card including data 
on their age, color, and weight, have 
it approved by the Dean and then 
have an lionest-to-goodness date for 
the dance.
ARCHITECTS FEAST 
MEDIEVAL AFFAIR
Carnegie Architectural Socie
ty Celebrates With 
Banquet
The Carneie Architectural Society 
held the First Annual Medieval Feast 
in their club rooms lately. The place 
was decorated in an old English cas
tle style. The candle lights and the 
stone walls gave a feeling of the mid
dle ages beyond description.
Mr. Steen from downtown was the 
speaker and the other guests were 
Professors Sternfeld Ellington, Hitch
ens and Richardson and Messrs. 
Lasbmit and Anderson.
The menu was novel as the name 
of the affair implies; a roast young 
pig decorated the center of the table 
when guests were seated.
The banquet  was handled by Mr. 
Nicola of the campus restaurant.
AT THE THEATERS
A special file might be kept for 
those that are obsolete. It would 
save a great deal of time in looking 
over the exhibit.
DR. HARKINS TO LECTURE
HERE ON ISOTOPES
In order to increase the efficiency 
of the bureau it might be wise to fol
low the plan used in the library. Col
lect a fine of five cents for each hour 
kept overtime.
Roamer also suggests that each girl 
file her opinion of the kissing ques
tion on the back of her card as a 
further aid to the efficiency of the 
bureau.
ROAMER.
GRADE SYSTEM EXPLAINED
BY PSYCHOLOGISTS
(Continued From Page One)
It would be an injustice to students 
in Class I, and also to the system, to 
turn in grades of which 10 were A 
and B, 10 were C and 10 D and E.
In tho definition of the grade sys
tem It is stated explicitly that the 
ono-thlrd rule applies in the long 
run as shown above. Therefore, .be
ing the best in the class" would not 
necessarily insure an A because that 
class mn.y bo relatively weak In coin' 
parlson to tho one in the preceding 
semester.
(Continued from Pago One)
1910 ho has been chairnulh of tho Di
vision of Physical and Inorganic 
Chemistry of tho American Chemical 
Sooloty.
Tho lectures will be given in Room 
209, College of Engineering, at 8:10 
each evening. The general subject 
of the series is Isotopes, and the 
Building and Disintegration of 
Atoms." According to tho announce
ment the lectures will be public.
MR. STALEY SPEAKS TUES.
TO PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
(Continued From Pago One.) 
anco did not .remain constant with 
change of potential.
On Tuesday afternoon, February 27, 
Mr, C. Williamson will speak on rocont advancos in photographic theory 
as shown by the results of work that 
has been carried on recently at the 
Eastman Kodak Company. Tho meet
ing will be held in 113 Science at 4:30 
p. m., as will be the case with all 
meetings of the PhyBics Colloquium 
this semester.
COL. BOYDEN LECTURES
ON CONCRETE HIGHWAYS
PROGRESS OF GYM
AS SEEN BY EVA FAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
earnest plea of Freshman president 
that his class may have tlieir Senior 
swim in new gym.
February 15, 1924: Contract award
ed to Mellon-Stunrt.
March 20, 1924: Mollon-Stuart de
cide tliat trees must be removed from 
Steolo property.
April 18, 1924: .Students celebrate 
Arbor Day by transplanting trees 
along cut.
Juno 12, 1924: Ground Is broken.
Dr. Baker makes stirring nddross on 
One good turn deserves another.
November 25, 1924: Work discon
tinued on account, of cold weather.
March 31, 1925: Work resumed.
April 3, 1925: Workmen go
strike for moro pay.
'.Tune 1, 1925: Workmen get moro 
pay and resume work.
September 5, 1925: Slow progress
is commented on.
September 6, 1925: Director Mott
suggests, Give the students tho 
shovels, they know how to use them."
April 29, 1926: Cornerstone is laid. 
Governor Piuchot addresses Tartans 
on Sand as a Stiffener for Concrete 
and Backbones."
November 19, 1926: Business Man
ager Orbin reports that accumulated 
interest on endowment is now suffi
cient to pay for roof of swimming 
pool.
May 23, 1927: Gym is completed.
Much rejoicing among students.
May 24, 1927: Students hold mass
meeting and petition Carnegie Cor
poration for price of new stadium. 
See Carnegie Tech. J., Vol. G No. 3.
TICKETS FOR SOPH
HOP ON SALE NOW
(Continued From Page One) 
Thursday, when the sale will be 
thrown open to the general public. 
The price is three dollars.
The evenings entertainment will 
bo furnished in the form of a number 
of stunts presented throughout tho 
evening by different persons. Obie 
Nowman and Carl Snyder will present 
a novelty skit, which noods no com
ment as to Its quality. Eva iS'poncor 
will slug a few numbers of a popular 
nature, and Doc Taylor will glvo a 
spoolalty act. Harry Hamilton, who 
la directing tho stunts, has written a 
short act for Bosso Johnson and 
Harry Morvls. As an added attrac
tion Mary Browne and Elizabeth 
LIndsday will put on their Sister 
Act. Pl\ll Thorne has consented lo 
favor with a specialty, which will 
complete the program.
Both ends of the Foyer will be fitted 
as lounges, and smoking will be per
mitted in these parts, facilities for 
smokers being placed in each. Lunch 
mid refreshments will be served in 
one end of the foyer throughout tho 
evening, so as to prevent congestion 
on the dance floor.
March 9, 1923, is the important 
date, the foyer of the College of Fine 
Arts the place and from 9 p. m. to 1 
a. m. the time.
(Con 'uued From Page One) 
creasing uie width instead of the 
thickness. This protects the edges 
and corners which are the first to 
give way under use unless protected 
in some manner such as increased 
width.
Large scale investigations have 
been conducted. Slides were shown 
of the Blinois test road. It is twelve 
miles long and includes twelve differ
ent type of concrete roads. Loaded 
tracks were driven back and forth on 
the road during the test.
Col. Boyden, a civil engineer and 
member A. S. C. E., lias had many 
3rears experience in concrete construc
tion and at present is engineering 
locturor for the Portland Cement As
sociation. The lecture is the result 
of his personal investigations and in
terviews with other Investigators.
ltd.
TRAVEL MADE EASY
Courtooua clerks who 
know every Inno of travel 
tho world ovor aro at your 
disposal at our Steamship 
Department. Select your 
destination and wo will do 
everything In our power 
to help you reach it In 
comfort and safety.
Mellon National E>ank
Oliuer Srmthfield
Keith vaudeville at the Davis Thea
ter twice-a-day next week is to have 
as a special item in its stellar pro
gram, Frank Tinney, noted stars of 
minstrelsy and musical comedy. It 
will be Mr. Tinneys first appearance 
in the two-a-day in this city, which 
is one of the few places that is to 
have the privilege of seeing and hear
ing this popular black-face comedian 
in the varieties. Mr. Tinney was last 
here at the Alvin Theater in Daffy 
Dill, and has had an enormous suc
cess in such other musical comedies 
as Tickle Me, "Jimmie and'Always 
You.
Another unusual attraction in the 
program will be Spains wonder dan
cers, the Cansinos, EJisa, Eduardo, 
Angel and Jose are together for the 
first time in their careers in America. 
They are a sister and three brothers 
and Spains most distinguished terp^ 
sichorean artists. On this occasion 
they are to present Fantasia Espa
ola, which is really a carnival of 
dances.
Mae and Rose Wilton, from The 
Little Whopper who are also prime 
favorites here, wilL entertain with 
their varied specialties. They are the 
most accomplished harmony singers 
on the stage, and in addition to vo
calization, play the piano, violin, 
dance and chatter.
Senator Ford from Michigan, will 
entertain with a new monologue. 
Billy Chase and Charlotte Latour are 
to be assisted by Nell Elsing and 
Scott Moore in Paul Gerard 'Smiths 
one-act comedy, Around the Corner.
It has been called a double exposure 
and is an interesting contrast in char
acter studies, representing opposite 
stratums of society. Four American 
Aces are to bo here with some sensa
tional aerial exploits. Something 
quite out of the ordinary is promised 
by Gonovas plastic posing dogs, a 
group of canines from the European 
music halls that are being exhibited 
for the first time in America. Besides 
these attractions, the hill is to be aug
mented by the showing of moving pic
tures of the important things in the 
news of tho world. Seats for the 
week are now on sale. Performances 
Will begin at 2:15 and S:15 oclock.
David W. Griffith, always a pioneer 
in film achievement, lias again 
brought something brand new to the 
screen in his groat eleven reel pro
duction One Exciting Night, which 
has been secured for presentation at 
the Million Dollar Grand throughout 
next week, starting Monday morning, 
February 2G.
Mystery comedies liaye been having 
a tremendous vogue on the speaking 
Htage, being represented by such suc
cesses as The Bat and others. Tills 
is tho first time, however, that such 
an idea has been brought effectively 
to the photoplay. In the production 
the master director lias departed en
tirely from the heavy form of drama, 
and has devoted practically all of his 
attention to creating thrill and laugh
ter. The story was written by Irene 
Sinclair and such an amazing com
plication of incidents does it develop 
that the spectator is fairly in a whirl 
of excitement and suspense.
In the cast are Carol Dempster, 
Henry Hull, Porter Strong, Morgan 
Wallace, C. H. Crocker King, Mar
garet Dale, Frank Wunderlee, George , 
Griswold, Irma Harrison, Herbert! 
Sutcli, Percy Carr and Charles E. j 
Mack.
Nothing has ever yet attained per
fection. And, chances are very slim 
that absolute perfection will ever be 
attained In anything. But, it is very 
possible to approach extremely close 
to that achievement as a limit. Every 
one of us are fully aware of the fact 
that even though the sides of a poly
gon are indefinitely increased, the 
area of that polygon will never equal 
the area of a circle of like radius, but, 
it will get mighty closein fact, so 
close that their areas will be the 
same, though not mathematically so.
Carnegie Tech is striving for per
fection. Her faculty are striving to 
make her the ideal American college 
by giving her students the best and 
most practically laid out courses they 
can. They are doing this through re
searches, experiments, and, constant 
changing of the curricula as a result. 
The results have been very evident to 
the wise-thinking students and prac
tical business men, who see in. Car
negie Tech the fundamentally sound 
American College. But, with all of 
this work towards their goal, they 
never can attain absolute perfection. 
There will always be some room for. 
a further improvement.
And thus It is in everything.
Carnegie Tech is not perfect. Like^ 
wise Carnegie Tech Unity. They hoth 
fall short somewhere, ft is our duty 
as Carnegie Tech students to find out 
where that short-coming is, and make 
honest endeavors to make it shorter 
to make that perfection and unity 
approach closer to the limit.
How is this going to be done?
Last week this column mentioned 
one waya better dissimilation of
knowledge about the execution of
Carnegie Tech business, both student 
and administrative. But, after think
ing this over, how can this giving of 
information be accomplished without
List of Prospective 
R.O.T.C. Graduates
Forty-Three Men to Receive 
Commissions in June
first having that Carnegie Tech Unity 
which impels every single student,, 
alumnus, member of the faculty, and 
administrative force willing and even> 
eager to take advantage of every op
portunity presented to get this infor
mation? It cant be done!
The Carnegie Tartan is the official 
organ to give this information. It 
is the duty of every single man con
nected in any manner whatever with 
Carnegie Tech to read every issue 
from cover to cover. But, it:s not be
ing done. The writer has heard many 
members of the faculty boast that 
they have not read the Carnegie Tar
tan for eight to ten issues. What can 
you expect from such members of 
the Carnegie Tech family? Darn lit
tle!
Again, those that do read the paper 
do not get all that is coming to them 
no fault of the staff though! Thereis a certain lack of co-operation 
among the men who do know. The 
writer knows that to lie a fact, and 
likewise every member of the staff 
knows the same thing.
This is not a razz, but just a re
minder of conditions that exist. It'& 
a gentle hint. If I were walking 
across a street and someone yelled 
that an auto was about to run over 
me, what would I do? Id take his 
hintbelieve me, I would!
Yours for that better Carnegie Tech 
unity.
The following is a list of prospec
tive R. O. T. C. graduates who,- it is 
believed, will be qualified and eligible 
for appointment in the Officers Re
serve Corps, on June 15, 1923, at end 
of school year:
Engineer Unit.
Carl Jeffrey Blllmeyer, Samuel Ed
ward Brillhart,' James Henry Camp
bell,. Wilbur Carl, *Jolin Joseph Gal
vin, Philip Hale, Raymond Padget 
Harold, Charles Nevin Harwood, 
Leopold Irving Hartman, Charles 
Poole Marsden, David Scroggs Mc
Kinney, *Fredericlc Boone Menden
hall, Raymond William Merton, Roy 
Jean Quantz, Merrill Hone Thompson, 
Louis Rae Turcotte, Theodore Robert
son Woornley.
Motor Transport Unit.
Herman Charles Bamberger, Barton 
Rank Biever, Leon Willard Cornman, 
Russell Alfred Essig, Paul Aloysius 
lierreran, Herbert Joseph McCormick, 
"Carl Arthur Meiter, William Richard 
Metzger, '^Siylvian Thomas Meurer, 
Charles William Nelson, Edwin Wil
liam Ortolf, Daniel Harvey Reed, An
thony Ross, William Gilmore Walker, 
Francis William Wert, Harold Hiller 
Wilson, Charles Newton Witherow, 
Iver Clifton Wood.
Signali Corps Unit.
Norman Wesley Bell, Harold Kilian 
Burr, Stanley Gaines, III., Arthur 
Athanasios Karkalas, Arthur Shipley 
Marthens, Edward Louis Reilly, Mar 
tin Robert Scholl, *Wesley Earl 
Tubbs.
Men whoso names are marked with 
an asterisk must first attend the ad
vanced R. O T. C. camps this sum
mer.
Mr. Samuel M. Vauclain, president 
of the Baldwin Locomotive Works, of 
Philadelphia, will address the Student 
Assembly at its next meeting, March 
14. His subject is How to Work and 
Progress.
Start the | 
Week Right f
X
Church on Sunday X 
puts new pep into Monclay, Tuesday, Wednes- :|; 
daytill Sunday comes $ 
again. Tiy it and see. ;S;
Oakland Methodist | 
Church 1
FORBES AUD | 
BOQUET 'k
Fifty steps from the 
campus"
LINES FROM
Famous Liberals
Whatever makes men good 
Christians makes them good 
citizens.Daniel Webster.
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morewood and Ellswortli 
Avenues 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class ...........................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00 P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies .................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
SECOND CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Announces a Free Lecture on
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
----------:by-----------
ONE THING
That cannot be measured by the 
cost Is the 
EXCELLENCE OF CLOTHES 
INDIVIDUALLY TAILORED 
-------by-------
DAVIES k HUGHES
EXCLUSIVE 
OAKLAND DEALERS 
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater.
Faculty Notes
Among recent visitors at the Insti
tute in addition to the lectures, Dr. 
Rosenhain, Dr. Erskine and the Per
sian Minister, were President Gdodnow, of Johns Hopkins University, 
President Edmunds, of the Canton 
Christian College, Canton, China, Mr. 
W. H. Tinker, Executive Secretary of 
Student Work of the International 
Committee of the National Y. M. C. 
A., and Miss Florence Jackson, direc
tor of the Bureau of Occupations, Bos
ton. Miss Jackson was one of the 
speakers at the tea given at Carnegie 
Tech to high and preparatory stu
dents Saturday afternoon, February 
17, by the Pittsburgh branch of the 
Association of American University 
Women. Miss Brown was the host
ess. Directors Breed and Bossange 
made addresses. About 400 guests 
wore present.
Professor Work attended the mid
winter convention of the American 
Institute of Electrical Engineers in 
New York last. week. He is a mem
ber of tho Educational Committee of 
that organization.
DR. JOHN M. TUTT, C.S.B., of KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI
Member of the Board, of Lectureship of the Mother Church,
The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 3rd, 1923, 8:15 OCLOCK 
NORTH SIDE, CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL, OHIO STREET 
Near Federal Street 
You and Your Friends are Cordially Invited to Attend.
NEW CARNEGIE SONGS TO
BE SUNG AT ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page One.) 
High her colors wave before us, 
Symbol of our unity.
Loyal men of Clan Carnegie 
Keep the faith our fathers had, 
Raise your voices, sons of Slcibo 
For the glory of the Plaid 
Raise your voices, sons of Skibo 
For the glory of the Plaid.
He Reached the Top
T
sCl
m
m
^HE Vice-President of a great life insurance 
company who began his career as an agent 
has this to say to seniors who are about to 
graduate from college:
If you love work and desire to pursue an honorable, 
useful and lucrative mission in life this is the business 
for you to take up. Life insurance salesmanship offers 
a fine field for the energies of the splendid young men 
in our colleges.
That this is true is demonstrated by those college men 
who have taken up life insurance for they have shown 
that the college man is fit for this kind of a job and 
that the job also is fit for the college man.
The work of the life insurance salesman is distinguished 
by independence and opportunityfor.directinghisown.
It gives all possible opportunity for individual initiative 
and a chance to make an ample income at an age when 
most fellows are struggling on a wage pittance.*
That is the story of one who began at the bottom and 
reached the top without the help of a college educa
tion. The advantages are with you who graduate 
from college. Before deciding your career make in
quiries of the Agency Department.
 
il 
m
mm..
PAGE TWOHCRWNE IDSYRW,F
VO LV.XVIN 2C..CARE.GXX. 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
m
mm
m
il
m
a
mm
m
m
m?
mm
m
m

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
ALLEGHENY TOSSERS DEFEATED 
BY PLAID FOR SECOND TIME !On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
' Plaid Tossers Lose 
Game to Grove City
Donahue and Gibson Star 
For Plaid in 35-25 Victory. 
Capt. Miller Leads Scoring 
For the Meadville Lads
Allegheny again was unable to cope 
with the Carnegie Tech basket ball 
team. Although the game was a very 
hard fought battle throughout, the 
Meadville lads never became very 
dangerous at any time except when 
Capt. Miller went on a rampage and 
dropped in four field gouls in short 
order.
The first half of the game ended 16 
to 13 in Carnegies favor. Our boys 
having rung up seven field goals to 
Alleghenys six. In the second half 
Carnegie stepped out and gained a 
."big lead which they retained to the 
end.
There is one of Carnegie Tech bas
ket ball players who cannot be 
praised too much for his great work 
on the team and he is that fast little 
Plebe named Donahue. In this game 
he made a total of seven field goals. 
During the whole basket ball season 
he .has performed like a veteran and 
has gained for himself the distinc
tion of being one of the best forwards 
in this section. To watch him play is 
a treat. To call him a whirlwind is 
putting it mildly.
Gibson again played a very clever 
game at guard. He also saw the bas
ket for two field goals. Gibbie can 
always be depended on to play the 
same old consistent game at guard 
for which he is noted. As has been 
said again and again, Gibbie very sel
dom has an off night.
Cap Dosey was back into oldtime 
form again in this game. He regis
tered 13 out of 18 chances at the bas
ket from the foul line and rang up 
two'long shots. Mohrman also played 
a very good game at his position. The 
lineup:
Allegheny25 Tech35
Ross....................... F.....................Anderson
Miller.................. F.......................Donohue
Wise....................... C............................Dosey
Brownell........... ,G..........................Gibson
Braun.................... G.....................Mohrman
Field goalsMiller 4, Ross 2, Wise, 
Braun, Donohue 7, Dosey 2, Gibson 2. 
Foul goalsBrownell, 9 out of 12; 
Dosey, 13 out of 18. RefereeCal 
Bolster. TimekeeperLee. Scorer 
Gilnert. Time of halves20 minutes.
R-A-D-l-0
RACO Crystal Detector Sets,
complete ....................................$12.50
$3.00 Lightning Protectors... 2.75 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY CO. 
4521 FORBES ST., Near Craig St. 
.Edison Mazda Lamps. 
Electrical Supplies.
Normalits Trimmed 
By Plebe Passers
Amans and IGoodwin Prove 
Stars For Freshmen
The Carnegie Tech Plebes added 
another victory to their string last 
Friday night by defeating California 
Normal 27 to 26. It was a hardfought game throughout, but by su
perior floor work the Plebes gained 
the necessary point to gain the vic
tory.
The Plebe team this year has been 
exceptionally successful and if the 
men on the team do not become in
eligible scholastically, the team is 
sure to have a fine record at the end 
of the season.
Coach Beeler is to be complimented 
for the coaching these men show in 
their floonvork and all around team 
play. Each man on the team is 
placed where he best fits in. Amans 
is a crack man at forward and dis
plays a wonderful brand of basket 
ball in his fast floor work. Jackson 
is efficient on the foul line and can 
be counted on to win a victory by 
excellent shooting when the score is 
a close one.
California Normal was considered a 
hard opponent by Beelers squad and 
the final score shows that they were 
not underestimated. They played a 
good brand of basket ball and Beel
ers squad had to wo'rlc hard to win 
the victoiy. Fast, hard playing count
ed in bringing home the bacon for 
the Plebes.
The lineup:
Tech Fresh27. Cal. Normal26.
Amans .....................F........................... Lee
Reiter .....................F ................... Carloss
Goodwin ..................C................... Weaver
Beede .......................G............. Channing
Jackson ...................G....................... Glunt
Field goalsAmans 5, Goodwin 4, 
Lee 4, Carloss 2, Glunt 1. Foul goals 
Jackson, 13 out of 22; Carloss, 11 
out of 8. SubstitutionsErie for 
Reiter, Ditty for Glunt. Referee 
Wagner.
STEFFEN IS COMING
Wally Steffen will be in Pittsburgh the latter part of this week for a 
conference with the Carnegie Tech athletic authorities on the football situa
tion. At twelve oclock on Sunday everyone should be at tho Field House to 
give him a warm reception and show him the big place he holds in the hearts 
of Carnegie followers. Dont fail to count yourself among those present. All 
out with the old football pep and lets have a couple of cheerleaders to en
liven the occasion.
THE FRESHMAN RULE
As it appears to us is going to inflict more or less of a hardship upon 
j Plaid athletics when it takes effect next fall. A number of athletes from 
j the Plebes have been drafted for the varsity teams each year and have been 
in most cases an importaut factor in putting out first-class teams.
Either Freshman or Reserve teams have been maintained in football and 
basket ball from season to season with varied success. However, in cross 
country, track and tennis, no attention has been paid to developing teams 
made up of the new men. A reserve cross country team was promoted under 
the tutelege of former Coach Thomas during the fall of 1921, and Bob Wad
dell handled a reserve baseball team last spring.
Beginning next fall the varsity coaches can no longer look to the incom
ing Freshman class to fill up the gaps in their teams. They must depend 
upon the veteran material of former years or upon material which has de
veloped on Freshman teams. Unless Plebe teams are organized in track, 
cross country and tennis, as -well as in football and basket ball, Carnegie 
Tech athletics are going to take the down grade in a few years. Furthermore 
these teams must have schedules of some sort in order to keep up the spirit 
and interest of the men.
The past few years we have noted that it has been mostly high schools 
and normal schools that have made up our Freshman team schedules. Not 
that we want to cast any reflection upon the ability of these schools but 
why not schedule a few of the Freshman teams oC the other colleges and 
universities in the Tri-State district? If the Freshman material that goes 
to our varsity teams every year were utilized for Plebe teams, we should 
be more than able to hold our own with similar teams of these other schools 
and colleges.
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
near 48tfi Street, New York 
Style shoes of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
In Terms of
the Colossal
General Moton Building 
Detroit, Michigan 
ALBERT F. KAHN, Architect 
Drawn by Hugh Ferriss
OTIS
'T'HE co-ordination of commercial strength, architectural vision and engineering skill which 
created this titanic ciuadruple office biiilding repre
sents the motive and creative force which has mrned 
the eyes of the world toward this type of American 
architecture.
This, the largest office building in the world, pos
sesses fundamentally magnificent largeness in its 
conception, and a clean-cut directness in its execu
tion which place it among the most significant of 
American buildings.
With such existing structural achievements no arch
itectural future is impossible, no project too vast 
or too complex to come readily to our imagination. . 
Certainlv modem inventionmodern engineering 
skill and organization, will prove more than equal 
to the demands of the architecture of the future.
ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
NOT SO BAD
West Virginia and Grove City got their desired revenge and in a con
clusive manner, but our yellow jackets made it two straight over Allegheny. 
Then we can consider that we have even breaks with the former two which 
alleviates some of the sting of this weeks defeats.
But on looking over the seasons record we flnd that it stands at six 
games won out of sixteen played. We dont know exactly where to place tho 
blame for this poor showing but eligibility seems to be the biggest jinx.
COACHING PROBLEM 
TO BE SETTLED SOON
Judge Steffen to Consult 
With Athletic Council 
Here in Few Days
Have you heard the latest on Car
negie Techs new coach. Another 
may answer by saying: Yes, I under
stand they are after Frank Cava
naugh, former star and then coach at 
Dartmouth and of late a very success
ful and popular coach at Boston Col
lege. Rumors originate and are mul
tiplied until few actually know what 
to believe as straight goods.
Quite true, the Plaid schedule as 
it stands for next fall is a tough 
one to face without a regular coach 
one who can spend all his time and 
energy in planning and perfecting a 
team as the season runs its course 
and changes its coursecaused by 
the change of strategies of future op
ponents. Unless a head coach is with 
liis men all the time and can read 
them, he is at fault to direct them for 
the most justifying and fruitful ends.
Can a new coach step in singlehanded and become so well acquaint
ed with new material that he can 
justify himself and the material suf
ficiently to tackle a schedule which 
includes six powerful teams in Class 
A football? The fact that the one 
year rule and the three year limit will 
go into effect next fall is not to be 
overlooked when considering that the 
squad will be composed almost en
tirely of men who have already 
learned one style of attack and de
fense.
Again, when teams which have 
worked well on the gridiron for nine 
years under the constant direction 
and influence of the Steffen system, 
suddenly break into an entirely new 
and different field of coaching/ there 
is sure to be some natural unpleasant 
reaction because of the apparent sat
uration of the previous training in the 
veteran men who form the nucleii 
next fall.
Thera, is the hitcliCarnegie will 
eventually need a permanent coach 
and one who will work under the con
ditions as they exist and gradually de
part from them to his own methods, 
but one would doubt the finding of a 
well know'll mentor who would acquisce to the advice of any other preceeding pigskin tutor,'yet there is the 
possibility that each might have his 
responsible job either as line coach 
or as back-field coach.
From these few viewpoints should 
spring much discussion among the 
student body and alumni as to the 
probable way in which the athletic 
authorities of the Institution will
Inter-Fraternity Dorm. 
Games Played Last Week
National League.
Beta Tlieta Pi and Sigma Epsilon 
Phi postponed.
Kappa Sigma Rho 21, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon 20.
Sigma Epsilon Phi 9, Delta Phi 
Delta 8.
American League.
Sigma Nu 17, Woodlawn Club 9. 
Tau Gamma Phi 14, Delta Mu 11. 
McGill Hall forfeited to Boss 1-Iall.
Federal League.
Welsh Hall 2!), Xi Sigma Upsllon 
5.
Kappa Sigma 39, Henderson Hall 
3.
Beta Sigma Rho 7, Square and 
Compass Club 9.
W. Va. Takes Return Game 
And Revenges Loss Here
The Tartan passers, who had not 
yet got going well together since los
ing the services of the two center 
men, Mefort and Miller, at the close 
of the first semester, fell before tho 
terrific onsluuglit of West Virginia 
University last Wednesday ovenlng 
by a 44 to 25 score. The game was 
plaiyed on the Mountaineers' floor, and 
the locals were out for revenge oyer 
the 29 to 28 defeat they suffered 
here at the hands of the Sltlbos a 
month ago. Tho playing of IIlll and 
Bowers was spoctacular, the former 
having six field goals to his credit.
At tho end of the first half -tho 
count was 22 to 11, with the Mounttaineers on the long end. Carnegie 
made a desperate attempt to even up 
the score, but the best they could 
do in the second half was to garner 
14 points while the home team way 
piling up 22.
W. Vir.44. Carnegie Tech25.
Hill .........................F...........I. Anderson
Funk .......................F................. Donohue
Hawley .................C....................... Dosey
Bowers ..................G._________ Gibson
Rohrobaugh .........G.;............ Mohrman
Crimson Gets Revenge For 
Her Previous Defeat
History doesn't always repeat it
self, according to the result of last 
Fridays encounter up Grove City 
way; but maybe that was the excep
tion that proved the rule. However, 
Carnegie Tech had to acknowledge 
defeat to the Crimsons after 40 min
utes of hard, fast playing on the hit
ters court. The final accounting 
showed an unfavorable balance of 35 
to 22 against the Skibos.
It doesnt take much effort to re
call that when the Crimsons visited 
the Tech Gym, they were trounced 
by the Tartan five to the score of 29 
to IS. This, the first defeat in a 
long string of 19 games, rankled in 
the minds of the Grove City boys, 
and they were rarin to go when last 
Friday night rolled around. Tho at
tendance was the largest this sea
son on the Grove City court, and the 
rooters were treated to a sterling ex
hibition of the floor game as it is 
played by such teams as the Plaid 
and Crimson.
At the end of the first half the 
score was knotted at 12 all., But It 
was not to be tied there long. Like 
a modern St. George about to attack 
the Gordian knot, the Mercer County 
aggregation attacked that knot with 
every intention of mutilating it boyoiul any hope of repair, and in tho 
first ten minutes of the second half 
had run up 13 pointers before the 
Carnegie five got wise to the situa
tion and dropped one through the 
basket at the other end of tho court.
The game on thei wholo was fast 
and somewhat rough, and dotted 
with orno spectacular plays by both 
teams. Tlioro , are tnousands of 
Smiths on this section of tho globo, 
but it took only one of them to al
most beat the Pittsburgh lads him
self. This Grovo City forward was 
like greased lightning when It camo 
to eluding the enemy defence, and 
was very accurate in his attempts at 
the basket., Ho succeeded In running 
up a personal total of six field goals. 
Hartman was another high point 
scorer for tho Crimson. Ho raised 
his teams score by making throe 
gouls from tho field and by looping 
13 out of 18 attempts from tho foul 
line.
Tho high scorors for Carnogio wore 
Anderson and Donahue. Each con
tributed two fiold goals, and Andy 
added seven from the foul marker. 
Dosey and Gibson oach shot a double 
counter, the former also dropped 
three through tho hoop from tho mis
siles of tho oppononts. Tho guarding 
of Mohrman and Gibson was elovor, 
although not ontlrcly impervious 
against tho attack of tho Grlmaon co
horts. Doaplto tho Imposing load 
gained by Grovo Qlty, tho Tartans 
contlnuod to fight: gamely until tho 
tlmekoeporB whistle said goodnight. 
The llnoup:
Grovo City85. Carnogio22.
Smith ....................F................ Andorou
Hartman ..........F..................... Donnhue
...........................C......................... Dosey
Shorts .....................G....................... Gibson
Fleming ...........G.............. Mohrman
PLAID CAGERS WILL MEET W.-J. 
AND BETHANY IN FINAL CLASHES
Maggie Murphs Beat 
Indiana Normal, 13-8
Miss Cook Plays Stellar Game 
For Plaid Girls
PLEBES NEEDED FOR 
TRACK MANAGER JOBS
finally decide upon the wisest and 
most satisfactory means of settling 
the whole coaching proposition.
From present indications, Judge 
Stpffen will be back at Carnegie as 
advisoiy coach next fall, but final ar
rangements in selecting capable as
sistants is pending his expected trip 
to the city within the next few days.
Steffens consultation with the Ath
letic Council will not only temporar
ily clear up the coaching situation, 
but will also define a policy in re
gards to the future of the Plaid grid
iron, and thus change or approve the 
incomplete schedule.
Standing of the Inter-Fraternity-Dor
mitory Basket Ball Leagues
NATIONAL LEAGUEW.
Iota Sigma Delta ..................'............................................................ 5
Kappa Sigma Rho ............................................................................ 4
Beta Theta Pi ..................................................................................... 2
Scobell Hall ......................................................................................... 3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...................................................................... 2
Delta Epsilon Omega ...................................................................... 1
Sigma Epsilon Phi ............................................................................ 1
Delta-Phi Delta................................................................................... 0
AMERICAN LEAGUEW.
Sigma Nu ............................................................................................... 5
Pi Kappa Alpha .................................................................................. 3
Boss Hall .............................................................................................. 4
Tau Gamma Phi ............................................................................ 3
Woodlawn Club ................................................................................. 2
Delta Upsilon ...................................................................................... 2
Delta Mu ................................................................................................ 2
McGill Hall .......................................................:................................. 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
W.
Beta Sigma Rho ................................................................................. 5
Xi Sigma Upsilon ............................................................................ 4
Theta Xi ................................................................................................. 2
Welch Hall .......................................................................................... 2
Kappa Sigma ........................................................................................ 1
Square and Compass ...................................................................... '1
Henderson Hall ................................................................................ 0
1.000
.800
.6G6
.600
.333
.333
.200
.000
1.000
.750
.000
.000.d00
.<100
.383
.000
1.000
.800
.500
.500
.333
.200
.000
It Is bad policy to razz too much, 
but sometimes a little razzing judi
ciously applied, will do enough good 
to justify Its application.
The inspiration of the present ar
ticle Is the absence of Plebe candi
dates for managerships. Last year, 
when the call for spring sports was 
issued, almost as many Freshmen as 
there were athletes reported for tho 
respective managerial competitions.
But this year the old field aint what 
she used to be. Dean Munliall, espec
ially, misses the bright and eager 
faces of the Freshmen whom ho has 
been accustomed to see crowding into 
the locker rooms and haunting the 
corridors looking for jobs, and hoping 
some day to wear a managerial C.
Last spring, no less than six Plebes 
reported to Don Williams, then the 
first assistant and now the manager 
of the track team. This year, no 
more than two have so much as set 
foot within the domains of the sons 
of the winged foot. Consider well, 
then, the advantages to be gained by 
entering such competition and getting 
ah early start.
If some sleeping giant within the 
Freshman class is aroused by th|s ap
peal, and Is moved to enter some ma
jor activity such as the track manager 
competition, he will be received with 
open arms by Messrs. Hill, Frazier, 
Gibson or Scrimgeour, all Sophomore 
assistants.
Little more can he said concerning 
tho track team itself. The contlnuod 
cold weather has served effectually to 
delay the plans of Coach Beeler and 
Captain Brumbaugh. Meanwhile, the 
managers are getting tho new cinder 
track in order for tho actual starting 
of tho spring offensive, which will 
start as soon as tho weather becomcs 
moro favorable for tho limborlng up 
of athletic limbs.
Coach Beeler Is especially anxious 
to get the squad started, In order that 
he may he able to get a line on tho 
new material before the first meet, on 
I April 28. At that time, a team will 
be sent to the Drake relays in Iowa. 
Those who stay at home will have the 
opportunity of competing against tho 
runners from Marietta College in a 
dual meet.
By a 13 to S score the Carnegie 
Tech Girls Varsity Basket Ball team 
turned the tables in Indiana Normal, 
and thus gained sweet revenge for 
the defeat they suffered on, their 
home lloor February 17. Tho return 
,game was played at Indiana, and in 
defeating the lassies of Indiana 
Normal., the Maggie Murphs accom
plished a feat that has never before 
been accomplishedthat of making 
the Normalits -taste defeat on their 
home floor. For tho splendid fash
ion in which tho. Carnegie Tech girls 
turned this feat they are to be com
plimentedthey showed a great Im
provement over their former game 
played with Indiana in the Carnegio 
Field House.
It seems as If the girls wore some
what peeved over their showing in 
this previous game, and wont up to 
Indiana determined to show that 
they could play tho old game along 
with the best of them, and as a re
sult showed good teamwork, and a 
fight that knew no such thing as de
feat.
Tho lineup was somewhat changed 
in that Mary Hughes played instead 
of Miss Sloan at forward, and Mar
garet Markoy played throughout tho 
gamo at contor, as did Eloanoro 
Cravor at guard. Both of those play 
ora were substituted later, in tho 
game playod In Pittsburgh.
Dorothy Cook starred for Carnegie 
with 11 vo field floals, and 3 out of 
10 fouls, making tho ontlro total of* 
13 points for tho Magglo Murphs. 
Miss Tonnent again starred for In
diana, making throe fiold goals, and 
no fouls out of bIx nttompts. MIbb 
Cunneon scored tho remaining point 
for Indiana through a one-point field 
goal.
The team plainly showed that thoir 
defects uncovorod In tho first game 
had boon Ironed out by 2ST. Bowman 
In tho woelca practice. Their team
work was greatly Improved as shown 
by tho splendid manner in which 
Mary Hughos fed tho ball to Dorothy 
Cook, after first rocelvlng It on woll 
ulllroctod passes down tho lloor by 
tho guards and contera, JVllss Bow
man Is duo groat,crait for develop
ing tho loam.
Carnegie Tech took the load early 
and hold It. throughout tho game. 
Tho first half ended with Carnogio 
on tho long ond of a 5 to 2 score.
Caiv Toeh.-Ul. Ind. Normal8.
Copie .........................F................. Tonnent
Hughes ...................F................ Cunneon
Mar key ...................C...................... Cumin
Oorbott ....................S................ McNulty
Lloyd .......................OC...................... Maust
Cravor .....................G...................... Dovoh
.................... Hunter
Field goalsCook 5, Tonnent I, Cunnoon. Foul goalsCook, 3 out of 
12; Tonnent, 0 out of (J. lloforoo 
Miss Mary Bingham, Pitt.
A PEACH OF A
BASKE TLHN
played by
Bennie Kruegers Orchestra
Hear it. Two pianos, saxaphoncs, sparkling brasses  
worth walking a mile to hear. 
The Thief, another big hit, 
on the other side. And like all 
Brunswick Records, a true 
reproduction, not a note lost 
or slurred.
Remaining- Games Are With 
Two of Strongest Teams in 
Section. Both Are Due For 
a Decisive Come-Back
In face of a number of defeats and 
a few victories within the period of 
time since tho Plaid passers last pre
sented a five-man working machine 
on tho homo floor, Coach Lubic 1ms 
not lost any faith lu tho material at 
hand, but rather has the brightest 
hopes that these last two games may 
prove to be a crowning reward to 
both his moil and himsolf for thoir 
fatiguing efforts in shaping up a well 
rounded quintet after tho mid-year 
examinations rang its toll.
Tho squad will have all week to 
smooth out some of tho faults brought 
out in tho various games during tho 
two extended trips. Actlng-Captain, 
Jimmy Anderson, has shown the samo 
real ability in generaling tho basket
ball toam that he displayed as cap
tain of the gridiron team, and every 
player has taken some helpful point
ers from Jimmies style of game. 
Donahue and Matter are improving 
with each game, while Dosoy at cen
ter position, though not in ills host 
form during some previous games, ia 
gradually hitting the paco sot before 
tho Grove City contest. Gibson and 
Mohrman make up a fairly strong de
fense and with four moro days of 
scrimmage agalnat the plucky Plobo 
pnssers they will bo roady to stop any 
and all invaders from floor advancoa.
Bethany College floor men and student-body are dreaming with wild ex
pectations of coming to Pittsburgh to 
annex a swoot victory ovor tho 
iS'cotchmon from Carnogio. Having 
successfully opened their sonaon by 
dofoatlng two smallor collogo quintets 
and later capturing a gamo from 
Bucknoll, they lmvo fought tho moro 
formidable teams of this section for 
little bettor than to push them, to nar
row margins. Tills UT some Indica
tion that the Blaons have tho fight 
that does damage when Its opponent 
aro In a slump. Tho regulars who 
have stuck through tho rough soason 
aro: Zook, Patterson, and Kelly at 
forward positions, Wells and GUI at. 
center, and Captain Gepford and 
Shoemaker at guards. From past per
formances Gill at contor will bear tho 
closest guarding.
Waah.-Joff. comos to tho Tartan 
floor with only one bad defeat lu re
coil t games and that at tho hands or 
tho Navy, who made tho Presidents 
look soa-slck. Tho Little Washing
ton boys lmvo coppod tho majority of 
their games winning from strong 
teams like Lehigh, Grove City, and 
Bethany. The Sklbo and the Presi
dent are both due for a decided and 
final comeback, and should each pick 
this gamowhat a gamo to wltno! 
Coach Byorly for tho Rod and Black 
knows that ho has a fat team with 
Captain Cocll Conn, Fredericks, and 
Kopf at forward, Lylo and Saunders 
exchangeable at center and guard po
sitions, and K. Conn the other guard.
Girls, come out In full force and 
show tho follow that nolthor coaxing 
Is nodded on thoir part, nor an ocort; 
to tho Fiold I-Ioubo In order to chooron tho Yollow-jorsloB for Dear Old 
Carnogio Tooli. Remember, tlioso are 
tho two final games of tho season; re
member that tho balcony may bo 
paokod, so Bocuro reservations at tho 
office of tho Graduate Managor or at 
tho gate of tho gymnasium; and re
member, tho ovoninga, tho dates, and 
tho time, 8:30.
Last nights gamo against Genova 
Collogo woundup tho varsity schedule 
on foroign floors, since the tentative 
games with W. Va. Wesleyan and 
Juniata were cancelled on account of 
unfavorable date8.
Tho Plobes lmvo made a remark
able showing TV far this seaaon and 
they have two more gamea yet to bo 
played, but not until tho latter part 
of noxt week.
Additional gamea have been acheduled for the girla team and the datea 
of theae gamea may be found under 
tho article covering tho victory over 
the Indiana Normal Co-eda.
Student3 wanting a typewriter for 
home and school should see the Rem
ington Portable with Standard Keyboard at Singers Pen and Gift Shop, 
Jenkins Arcade._______________________
*
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*I
*
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Coroageu 
Pianto 
Dcorations
Tech students will find that our prices are In keeping with tho quality 
and service.
A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 28, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
COAST CLANNERS CAVORT AT 
DANCE AND DINNER PARTY
Frederick H. Kindle Elected 
Secretary-Treasurer to Suc
ceed Mrs. Inez Heacock 
Pille, Resigned
HELEN BLACK, 21 GRAD 
FROM M.M. COLLEGE, DIES
You can. talk about your Kaporn 
of Karnalc, your Junior Pronin or any
thing tho Now York Clan ha ever 
had not any ol! tho above mentioned 
had anythin/? on tho "Hop" that was 
hold by tho Southern California Car
negie Clan Out Wont on February 13,
1923.
Mr. and Mr. Knapp, and Mr. J. II.
Weller and Miss MeDowed allowed 
the way to tho eata at tho Cana Vorduga Cafe which noatloB in tho foot
hills of the snow-capped iiiountainB of 
sunny California. Everything was up 
to high standardthe eats, tho music 
and then tho real service minus the 
Senoritas.
For the success of tho affair, wo 
must give the committee, composed 
of Mr. Knapp and Mr. Weller exclu
sive credit; Mr. Weller especially for 
tho elaborate decorations.
After devouring the Spanish dinner 
with real jaxx music to dance to be-|])0 renowed, 
tween courses, Mr. Crawford Inter-1 
fored just long enough to disperse 
with tho usual business. Mr. Fred
erick Kindle was, by a majority, 
elected to tho position of secretarytreasurer, which was left vacant by 
Mrs. Inez Heacock Pllle, who has 
moved and cannot be present to carry 
on the work.
After Mr. Crawford had turned 
ovor the equipment and the responsi
bilities of the ofllce to Mr. Kindle, the 
meeting adjourned and dancing re
sumed to tho strains of the "Cay
Jazz Orchestra, a worthy rival of Max 
Fishers syncopators.
Much regret, was without doubt ex
pressed by thoBo who wore absent, 
while the present number listed be
low voted a good time.
Those present woro Mr. James II;
'Knapp, S. '12, and Mrs. Helen Harblson Knapp,1 M. M. 15; Mr. J. IT. Wel
ler, S. 15, and Miss MeDowed; Mr.
C. M. Crawford, S. 18; Mr, Frederick 
H. Kindle, A. 12, and Mrs. Frederick
All Aboard, Carnegie! 
Ride on Band Wagon
Twelve Hundred Seats Still 
Waiting For Occupants
Mbts Helen Margaretta Black, '21, 
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Black 
of Canonbsurg, Pa., passed away De
comber 10, at tho home of her pa
rents, following an illness which had 
Its set-ln last spring and which had 
conilned hpr to her bed since June, 
An attack of quinsy last spring, while 
she was teaching In Homestead, wan 
followed by grippe, and later tubercu
lar trouble developed.
Miss Black was born September 17, 
1899. She was graduated from tho 
Canonsburg High school in 1917, and 
received her B. S. degree from Car
negie Tech. In 1921, and afterwards 
took a toacherB post-graduate course 
at Penn State. She was a member 
of tho Carnegie Glee Club. When 
taken ill she was a teacher of domes
tic science in the Charles Schwab Vo
cational School of Homestead.
Miss Black had requested that her 
mother keep In touch with the Alma 
Mater and lie has requested that her 
subscription for The Carnegie Tartan
H. Kindle; Mrs. Ida Rlcheter Welfer, 
M. M. '18, and Dr. C. R. Welfer, Pitt 
17; 2STT Otillle IC. Stock, M. M. '12, 
and Mr. W. II. Dresser; Mr. E. D. 
Stonerod, S. '14, and Miss Mason; 
Miss Helen \Sutch, A. 23, and Mr. 
Norman Mason; Mrs. Beatrice Kennlclc Vernon, A. '18, and Mildred Butress, and Mr. II. P. Butress; Mr. M. J. 
Thomas, I. 21, and Miss Mae Dixon.
Wo have a live bunch together and 
nro having vory good meetings. Our 
numbers are not so big but consider
ing tho distance from the school, I 
think we are doing very well.
Tho next banquet and wax-floor 
slido Is scheduled for March 13 at an 
as yet unknown place.
Should there be any other Carnegie 
Techlto who has not enjoyed these 
social ovonts and wishes to meet with 
us they can procure tho necessary In
formation by consulting Mr. Frederick 
H. Kindle, 2201 Mineral avenue, Los 
Angelos, Cal.
Wo aro getting up steam and will 
soon bo under way. It takes a little 
time, but Oh, Boy! When we are 
going, nothing is going to stop us un
til we roach our goal, and all you 
alumni will want to be on the band 
wagon. There aro about two hundrod booked already, but there Is 
room for about twelve hundred moro 
and wo want every seat filled. Make 
a check or money order out of G. L. 
Tllbrook, treasurer and mark it 'Kil
ties' and your name will appear below 
with those who have joined in the 
past two weeks: R. B. Dunham, W,
II. Odenour, R. L. Stelnberger, T. H. 
Reed, C. II. Kleffman, J. A. Mayer, J. 
II. Ralnsford, R. C. Altermat, W. K. 
Fawcett, A. D. .Tenner, P. L. Hoover, 
S. G. Little, M. M. Steen, II. L. Heil
man.
LUTHER M. LANDIS, STUDENT, 
DIES AFTER SHORT ILLNESS
Building Construction Men Psychology Professors 
Inspect Cement Factory ^/rjte ^ew jext Books
(Continued from Page One) 
was feeling better, but toward even 
ing a pain developed in his ears. Dr. 
Marks advised the consultation of an 
ear specialist. Wednesday morning 
Mr. Landis was therefore moved to 
the St. Francis Hospital, where his 
mother and two sisters were at his 
bedside. He waB operated upon 
Wednesday noon and later pneumonia 
set in. The flrst traces were discov
ered on Friday, and Landis gradually 
grew worse, until he died at nine 
o'clock Tuesday morning, February 
20.
The body was taken to his home in 
Harrisburg Tuesday afternoon, where 
his funeral was conducted by Rev. 
Hansom, D.D., of the Messiah Luth
eran Church, at two oclock, Friday. 
Six of SFST fraternity brothers were 
pallbearers.
Mr. Landis is resting beside his 
lather in the Harrisburg Cemetery. 
He is survived by his mother, Mrs. 
Charles D. Landis, 1030 Green street, 
Harrisburg, and his two sisters, Miss 
Margaret Landis, and Mrs. S. M. 
Vockel, 1504 Murray avenue, Pitts
burgh.
The Sonlors and Juniors of the De
partment of Building Construction, 
last Friday, went on an inspection 
trip to see the manufacture of Unlvtrsal Portland Cement at Universal. 
Pa.
The classes were furnished with 
trucks to save them time and trou
ble in -waiting and making various 
changes in trains, which has in the 
past been a handicap in making trips 
to this plant; an entire day under 
the old system being needed to maku 
the trip.
Many thanks are due the Universal 
for the manner ot conducting the 
trip, the warming up' after the long 
cold ride, the quality of the dinner 
served tho student body, the thor
oughness of the inspectionthe divi
sion of the student body into small 
squads, with which the student could 
follow the process of manufacture of 
cement easily. Emphasis was placed 
on tho Mechanical 'resting Lab., and 
tho fact that 100 per cent of the ce
ment was formally lost in the pre
cipitation, is now reclaimed in the 
stacks and is saved. The installation 
of these precipitators wore made at 
an outlay of a million dollars and 
have repaid their installation several 
times over.
Use Time to Teach and Write 
to Benefit Others
SCIENCE STAG ON
ST. PATRICKS EVE.
(Continued From Page One.) 
he, placed on sale this week. The 
price this year will be thirty-live cents 
which is to cover the expenses of the 
smoker. The four class acts alone 
will be well worth the money.
The general committee in charge is 
composed of Pett Thompson, chair
man, Jeffers, Brillhart, McKenzie and 
Andrews, from the Senior class, 
Scjuicker from the Juniors, Jack 
Bright from the Sophomores and Har
old Hanes from the Plebe class. This 
committee held their first meeting 
last Friday and all the arrangements 
are under way.
In next weeks Tartan a ballot will 
be published and every Senior will be 
asked to cut this ballot out and fill 
in his elections. As usual unique 
prizes will bo awarded to the lucky 
Seniors on the night of the smoker.
Be sure to keep Saturday, March 17 
open and buy your tag immediately.
Engineering Levels Mountains
The Pack Train lias become a relic of the 
past, along with the Prairie Schooner. 
Modern methods of transportation have 
leveled mountains, brought San Francisco 
nearer to New York, and widened the mar
kets of all our great industries.
And the engineering brains and energy, 
that have developed transportation to the 
prominence it holds in the business of the 
world today, are no longer emploj'ed in 
improving means of overland travel alone. 
Street Railways, Elevator Systems, Interurban Lines and Improved Shipping Lines 
these are some of the accomplishments of 
engineering in the development of better 
transportation.
Neither have the builders of such systems 
been concerned only in the actual hauling of 
people and materials. A study of the methods 
of handling passengers and freight at the 
large terminals has developed the Terminal 
Engineer, who has greatly improved existing
methods, and has developed entirely new 
ones, as well.
Engineering, as it is applied to transporta
tion, has had to concern itself with many 
kinds of materials and many ways of handling 
them under all manner of circumstances. 
For instance the problems surrounding the 
handling of iron ore, in bulk, are vastly 
different from those encountered in moving 
any one of the finished products manufac
tured from iron ore, that must also be 
transported in large quantities. But Engin
eering constantly meets each situation with 
improved transportation facilities.
Industry, as a whole, and the nations and 
the people of the world owe much to the 
engineers, associated with such large manu
facturing industries as Westinghouse. They 
have not only brought about vast improve
ments, but they have done so at a constantly 
decreasing cost to those who derive the 
greatest benefit from them.
ACHIEVEMENT & OPPORTUNITY
Dr. E. K. Strong, Jr., head of the 
Department of Educational Reference 
and Research, has just received the 
first copies of his two new books, 
Introductory Psychology for Teach
ers and Job Analysis and the Curri
culum.
The first Is a revision of an earlier 
work of the same name, but covers 
the field in a great deal more detail. 
Dr. E. S. Robinson, University of 
Chicago, says in reviewing it: "The
instructor using this volume will find 
that practically the entire task of or
ganizing materials has been accom
plished for him. . . . .where immature 
students must be put into contact 
with as many useful facts as possible 
in a very brief time, a highly organ
ized collection of lessons such as 
Professor Strong has put together 
should prove a blessing to Instruct
ors."
Richard S. Uhrbroclc, M. A., Car
negie Institute of Technology, is co
author of the book Job Analysis and 
the Curriculum. This is an inten
sive study of the nature of executive 
work, outlining a new method for the 
development of a curriculumin this 
case a curriculum for the training of 
young men to become commercial 
piinting executives.
Leonard Outhwaite, Editor of the 
Journal of Personnel Research of the 
Personnel Research Federation, says, 
'This volujme!..............makes one cen
tral and paramount contribution. It 
presents a successful method for an 
objective determination of the con
tent of a technological and vocational 
curriculum.
Introductory Psychology for Teach
ers is being published by Warwick 
and York, Baltimore, while Job Analy
sis ahd the Curriculum is the first of 
the Personnel Research Series of the 
Personnel Research Federation, New 
York City.
Curriculum Construction, a new 
book by W. W. Charters, has just 
come from the press. The author is 
Professor of Education and Director 
of the Research Bureau for Retail 
Training of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. This is the latest word 
on the methods of organizing curri
cula based upon, the needs of a stu
dent after he leaves school. Thq 
problem is attacked from a jobanalysils point of view, discovering 
the different requirements of the va
rious vocations and then. construct
ing the curriculum to meet these 
needs.
The American school system has 
been the subject of a great amount 
oL adverse criticism and as a result 
is casting about to correct itself. 
That readjustment ought to be scien
tific. Dr. Charters nas laid down 
the fundamental methods that should 
be used.
Some of the criticism of the schools 
and their courses of study has in the 
last ten years become constructive. 
Sixty studios made in the public 
schools and in the vocations are the 
bases of this book. Charters work 
1b designed to interpret these studies 
in terms of the functional theory of 
curriculum construction. As such it 
should find wide use in research divi
sions of schools of education.
MUSICAL CLUBS TAKE
ANOTHER TRIP THIS WEEK
(Continued From Page One)
After staying up half the night en
tertaining the various households in 
where they were quartered, it is no 
wonder that some of the men were 
missing when the seven oclock train 
left for Cleveland).. Web Cunning
ham and Arch Clarks absence can 
probably be accounted for, but Mr. 
Riehl, the Director of the Club, sur
prised everyone by missing that 
train. On arriving in Cleveland the 
club went to the Y. M. C. A. and 
after a swim and short practice were 
given the run of the town till three 
that afternoon. At that time they 
were entertained at a matinee per
formance in Clevelands Little Play
house by a cast composed for the 
most part of graduates of the Drama 
Department of Carnegie who gave 
the play the Admiral of Baskesvilles.
From seven-thirty till eight the 
members of the Novelty Orchestra 
played to audiences all over the 
United States through the medium of 
the K broadcasting station in Cleve
land. Judging by the amount of 
steam that Putt shot into his bass 
horn, the concert probably sounded 
more like a solo than a concert. Im
mediately after this the clubs gave 
their regular concert in the Hotel 
Olmsted. This concert was. rendered 
better than any the club has given 
this year and received hearty ap
plause. Following the concert the 
Novelty Orchestra played for a dance 
which was thoroughly enjoyed by the 
club members. A surplus of girls, 
something unusual at a dance, gave 
everyone a chance to make up a full 
program.
On Friday afternoon the club gave 
a' concert at the Glenville High 
School. This concert was shortened 
somewhat to allow more time for the 
dance which followed, but it was en
thusiastically received by the High 
School pupils who seemed to enjoy 
the humorous portions especially 
those created by A1 Johnson, who 
acted as director, in bowing in re
sponse to the applause.
Saturday afternoon the clubs trav
eled to Elyria giving an evening con
cert and dance in the High iSchool un
der the auspices of the Womens Civic 
Club. This concert completed the 
week's bill and most of the members 
caught the first train back to Pitts
burgh.
Carnegie Tech should be proud of 
the achievements of its musical clubs 
and everyone of us should be on hand 
when they give their home concert 
April 13th.
I Public Sales iV.1. We have purchased 122,000 * 
pairs U. S. Army Munson last ] 
*j* shoes, sizes 5\/2 to 12, which < X was the entire surplus stock of ] 
one of the largest U. S. Govern- . 
*:* ment shoe contractors.
?j* This shoe is guaranteed one . 
*:* hundred per cent solid leather,  
color dark tan, bellows tongue, ] 
dirt and waterproof. The ac*:* tual value of this shoe is $6.00. ' 
Owing to this tremendous buy ,
V we can offer same to the public  
x at $2.95.
j* Send correct size. Pay postX man on delivery or send money 
order. If shoes are not as rep- .
V resented we will cheerfully reX fund your money promptly upon
request.
National Bay State 
Shoe Company
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
DRAMATISTS PRODUCE
STEVENS SHAGREEN
(Continued From Page One.) 
Newman, and others, including about 
twenty extras.
A dress rehearsal performance will 
be given Thursday evening, March 1, 
before the Art Supervisors and Teach
ers of the Pittsburgh schools, who 
will be guests of the Fine Arts Col
lege at a reception. Beginning Fri
day the play will be presented to the 
public to be repeated on the evenings 
of March 3, 6, 7 and 8.
SEFFEN BACKRALLY
SET FOR SUNDAY NOON
(Continued from Page One) 
ability! All in all, everything, will 
be there that will go towards making 
Wally feel jliat he is about the most 
popular cman on the Carnegie Tech 
campus, which will be only showing 
him : he true situation.
Ahd this rally is not only for the 
boysits for the girls, too. At noon 
.next Sunday, not a single girl should 
be in the girls dormitories, and every 
single girl who lives in Pittsburgh 
should be on the campus at that
time, for when Wally comes to Pitts
burgh for one day and is on the
campus, theres no other place in the 
wide world- but the campus, where 
Wally Steffen is, for all Carnegie 
Tech students, whether they be boy 
or girl.
Posters will be placed on the
campus this week which will tell all 
information about the gathering, and 
further to keep it in your minds that 
youre supposed to be there. So, keep 
your eyes peeled for these signsab
sorb the complete detailsmake no 
other engagement for that timeAND 
BE THERE! If 3rou have a date, 
bring her along! If you dont have 
a date, make one and help swell the 
crowd. And Maggie, if you have a 
date with a non-Carnegie Tech man, 
bring aim around and swell the 
crowd NUF SED!
Directoiy of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G-. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretaiy, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. WalUce, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESSecretary-Treasurer, Frederick Kindle, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Slienango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckalioe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech- nolog3r.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUIS-Acting Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 1913 Southern Blvd.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 1422 Wick Avenue
"WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
H.F.H.H.H.H.HTH.H.H.Y.H.Y.H.Y.
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
Meal
l I 1 o .LEYS
and give your stomach a lilt.
Provides "the bit ol 
sweet** In beneficial 
form.
Helps to cleanse 
the teeth and keep 
them healthy.
