Vote For The Queen 
Of Mardi Gras 
Todayarafgie ITartan
VOTE IN GENERAL 
ELECTION AT NOON 
TODAY
VOL. XVI. NO. 33CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1922
SENIOR WEEK 
TO CULMINATE 
SCHOOL YEAR
Dedication of Senior Fence 
Theater Party, Senior Play, 
and Ball Game are on Pro
gram.
MANY NEW EVENTS
At the last four schools Senior Meet
ing, a tentative program for Senior 
week was presented and approved and 
rests in the hands of the committee 
for such revision as they see fit. A 
number of events from former years 
have been retained while new addi
tions to the doings of the week are 
new on the campus and promise to re
main fixed in the future programs of 
the Seniors as a more or less tradi
tional celebration. The general atti
tude of the class is to make their 
last week of farewells one of lasting 
memory and to raise the level of com
mencement above that of a mere 
formality.
A new event in the program this 
year is the celebration of Class Day, 
the program for which is now in the 
hands of a special committee. It is 
planned to center the' exercises of 
that afternoon around the dedication 
of the Senior Fence, which is well on 
the way to approval. The remainder 
of the program has not been disclosed, 
but it is planned to have such events 
as will remain traditional with the 
school. The goal is to make Class 
Day to the Seniors the equivalent of 
Qualification Day to the Plebes and 
those called.
An effort is being made to secure 
the Union for the exclusive use of the 
Seniors all during the last week so 
that a centralized meeting place will be 
afforded for meetings and the like. The 
program as approved is as follows: 
Monday, June 12.
1:30 P. M.Baseball Game.
3:30 P. M.Class Meeting and Tea 
DanceUnion.
8:00 P. M.Theater PartyDavis 
Theater.
??Exclusive use of tennis courts for 
Seniors all day.
Tuesday, June 13.
12:30 P. M.All Girls Luncheon.
2:00 P. M.Mens SwinvP. A.'A.
7:00 P. M.Mens Banquet.
8.00 P. M. All Girls Dance. 
Wednesday, June 14.
10:30 A. M.All Girls' Swim.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Tags For Campus Week 
To be on Sale To-day
Reduced Costs to Holders of 
the Gray Tags
Campus Week is the biggest time 
for celebration during the school 
year. In order to celebrate in the 
right way you should display one of 
the LITTLE GRAY TAGS which will 
make their appearance on the cam
pus today. The cost of each tag will 
be seventy-five cents. This is cheap 
when you consider what all goes with 
the wearing of one. By displaying 
the tag you will be given full admis
sion to the Mardi Gras, which will be 
one of the biggest events; full ad
mission to the Yaudville Show, where 
you will see and hear the Director 
of the Movie World, Wm. H. Hays 
together with many of Carnegies 
stage stars; and the Inter-Fraternity 
Sweepstakes admission is by ticket 
also. Besides the free admission with 
the tickets, the following rebates will 
be given; fifty cents on the admission 
to the dance on Thursday night and 
twenty-five cents per ticket to the 
show on Saturday night at the Schen
ley Theater.
Of course every fellow will have 
his best girl engaged for every event 
during the whole celebration. With 
the tags for two, which will cost $1.50 
the following are the expenses for the 
other events; $1.00 for the dance on 
Thursday night, and $1.50 for the show 
on Saturday night. This makes a to
tal $4.00 for the entire period of cele
bration and good time.
Let every one help the committee 
and get a Tag, thus making this the 
biggest and best celebration that we 
have ever had.
FIFTY SENIORS FROM
LOCAL HIGH SCHOOLS
TO GET SCHOLARSHIPS
Fifty high school seniors in Pitts
burgh will be given scholarships, ef
fective the next school year, at Car
negie Institute of Technology. An
nouncements concerning the terms 
have been sent by the committee on 
scholarships to the principals of all 
local public, private and parochial 
sohools. Applications for these 
scholarships are made through the 
principals of the various schools.
Each scholarship carries a credit of 
$100 a year toward the tuition fee, 
and is continued for four years mak
ing the value of each scholarship 
$400. The awards will be made on 
the basis of character and scholastic 
capacity. Continuance of an award 
from year to year depends upon the 
holder maintaining a high standard 
of scholastic work.
RENNYS PLACE AT 
SCHENLEY THEATER
Preparations Completed For 
Grand Finale of 
Campus Week
The last .installment of furniture for 
Rennys new restaurant is about paid 
off and the place will soon be open 
and in running order. The waitreses 
have been, selected, and brand new 
eggs for the kitchen have been selec
ted, all he needs now is the custom
ers. If you dont believe the place 
is sanitary, come and watch May 
swat the flies in the doughnut bin.
The cast for Rennys Place" has 
been carefullj' chosen to type, and 
some of the best and most popular 
of the Tech Players will be seen in 
it. Frinstance, theres Ross Hertz, 
as Renny, the jazziest jazz hound of 
Chesser and proprietor of the nift
iest restaurant jazz in the Middle 
West, as the Chesser Herald says. 
In this role, Hertz will be givrni the 
chance'to do everything from tossing 
hot cakes off the griddle to acting in 
the moving pictures. Then theres 
Larry Paquin, as the bluff, jovial 
movie director, who can even turn 
waitresses into Mary Pickfurds in 
a twenty minute course of instruction 
Jack Willard as the idol of a mil
lion movie fans, makes an ideal 
lounge lizard and a modern Don 
JuanEddie Ried is Jake Johnson, 
who -doss- the jitneyin'- an'-hairito" 
and meets the daily trainEvery good 
show has a mystery, and as Dan Mil(Continued On Page Two.)
WORK ON CAMPUS WEEK 
DECORATIONS STARTED
Fritz Bowers, of the Design School, 
has consented to open up his heart 
and prophesy on the decorations for 
Camupsi Week. 1-Ie prophesies as fol
lows:
The Design School interior will be 
sprayed and embalmed with a sub
dued radiance of effulgent and en
gulfing tones, posed and super-impos
ed by the Artist Models Association. 
And that's that.
The Langley Lab will be a sec
ond, edition of the Design School, 
whiile a mysterious and grotesque 
grotesqueness will be the key word 
of the Union. Special decorating 
schemes will be worked out for Fri
day.
Multi-colored lanterns will bob on 
wires all along the cut, giving it a 
weird buU delighttful effect. These 
lanterns will extend up Woodlawn 
avenue to Design School, while at the 
flagpole there will be a special en
trance creation.
The Design School Committee have 
been working overtime on these dec
orations, and that the results will be 
of the highest type of excellence goes 
without saying.
Standing of Fraternities
Announcement is made by Dean 
Tarbells Office that the scholarship 
rank list of the 19 general social fra
ternities comprising the Interfratern
ity Council is as follows for the first 
Semester, 1921-22:
Standing Average 
Fraternity Points
1. Delta Upsilon ................... 73.58
2. Alpha Pi ............................ 66.56
3. Sigma Epsilon Phi ............. 53.75
4. Phi Epsilon Pi ................... 50.22
5. Iota Sigma Delta ............. 49.87
(Continued on Page Three.)
Campus Courier. The Autocrat
Of the Breakfast Table Out C. W.
Wot ho, folks! Have you heard 
the latest] dope on Will Hays pet 
canary? Has the latest scandal 
reached your ears about how the 
Tartan office girl stuffed the ballot 
(box for Queen of the May? Has any 
one whispered into your shell-like 
ear instructions on how to face a 
movie camera without breaking its 
heart? Can you predict wholl make 
last place in the sweepstakes? Do 
you1 know who dropped the tacks in 
the May dances? No? Then gather 
round me while I sipill the Boston 
berries.
The Campus Courier, that snappy 
sheet which enlivened last year's 
Campus Week, will again be on hand 
to gladden the eye next week. Not 
only jwill it be available on the 
campns, but will he delivered before 
. fl'fc-ea^fast (unbelievable though it
n:
may seem) to fraternity houses, 
dormitories, or any residence where 
ten or more copies are subscribed 
for. Just think of what this means, 
gents. A leisurely dressing in the 
morning, with a comfortable toilette 
no sooner completed when James 
will announce Your Campus Courier 
is here, sir." Just like that!
Along With the Grapefruit.
And while you are tucking away a 
shredded wheat (adv.), a quart of 
milk, and a side of bacon, a comfort
able perusal of the Courier will ac
quaint you of all the events of the 
daypast, present and future. And 
we are rash enough to predict that 
you will not find the reading alto
gether dull. Alpha Alpha Nu, jour
nalistic fraternity, has placed its 
talent at the disposal of the Yellow
(Continued on Page Two.)
LEADERS FOR MARDI GRAS QUEEN
arffgi
OPENING EVENT 
CAMPUS WEEK 
AT MUSIC HALL
Local Talent to Put on Var
ious Vaudeville Numbers at 
General Assembly. Engi
neers Have Number.
SURPRISE NUMBERS
The program for the big opening 
event of Campus Week is nearing 
completion.
The show will open with a prologue, 
The Spirit of Campus Week. The 
program that follows will be augment
ed by a complete chorus. Some im
portant numbers follow:
The Fatal Necklace, a burlesquo 
cm. . burlesque^ . put ion by. a _Yiirsir,y 
cast. The cast includes: Red Godden, Chester Brumbaugh, Taylor, 
Sawyer, Newman, Rosenblooin. ,
In the Movies Words Mean Noth
ing. This is a selection from the 
Music Box Revue, which is now 
showing in New York City. The prin
cipals are: Bess Johnson, L. Pauquin, B. Kappes, G. Hoag.
A I-Iick Song Stunt will be staged 
by C. Reid, Ross Hertz, Reppller, 
Williard and others.
Newman, Snyder and Company in a 
jazz dress song act.
A Masque Dance, by Ned Jen
nings and Peg Harmon.
Two numbers of special interest 
are two burlesque presentations, one 
The Merchant of Venice, by M. M. 
C. C. girls, and Uncle Toms Cabin, 
by the Arts Plebes.
The Commercial Engineers will 
present a burlesque, entitled The 
Weir Nuts Company.
Some of the chorus numbers are: 
At the Garden Ball.
Loves Waltz.
Alhambra of Jazz.
The Modern Girl and the Old Fash
ioned Girl, with Carl Reid, Eunice 
Osborne and Mary Liszfelt will sing, 
and Carl Heinrich and Claire Trabert 
will- dance.
There are several other surprise 
numbers that are expected to excite 
much interest.
Y. M. C. A. TO HANDLE THE 
ORDERING OF THE SENIOR 
CAPS AND GOWNS FOR GRADS
The Y. M. C. A. is handling the 
ordering of the caps and gowns for 
Commencement,, and has appointod 
the following named students to take 
measurements and collect fees in the 
various schools: John Nation, Scien
ce; T1 G. Tiffany, Arts; J. E. Chick, 
Industry; Evalyn Pierson, Margaret 
Morrison.
Checks should be made payable to 
Rollin V. Davis. All measurements 
and rental fees must bo in Y office 
not later than May 20th. Soe those 
representatives of your school if they 
havent seen you.
Rental fee Bachelors Cap and 
gown. $2.50; Rental foe, Masters Cnp 
and gown, $2.75; Rental feo, Doctor's 
Cap and gown, $3.00.
STUDENT COUNCIL 
ACCEPT DEGREE RING
Final List of Recognized 
" Campus Organizations 
is Published
The mooting of tlio Student Council 
last Sunday was taken up In complet
ing the work of the various commit
tees, in order to cloan up the work 
of this years council.
The social committeo, Carl B. Roid 
and W. It. Mills, reportoil that It had 
regulated the dancos on Iho campus 
and made fi form for dance permission 
requests.
The following committee was ap
pointed to draw up a social calondur 
for major social events next your: 
Fritz Bowers, chairman; Helen Reed, 
Priscilla Allison and Charles eITtnIrV
The organizations commlttoo, Helen 
Reed, Rod Goddon and Charlos 
Blesch, submitted a report of organi
zations which are recognized on the 
campus. The roport Avas accepted.
The following organizations liavo 
been recognized:
Four Schools' Organizations:
C Club.
Citmas Club.
Cosmopolitan - Club.
Debating Association.
Girls Athletic Association.
Girls Glee Club.
Non-Degree Association.
Rifle Club.
(Continued on Page Four.)
ALL CLASSES TO 
HOLD ELECTIONS 
AT NOON TO-DAY
Officers of All Classes, Repre
sentatives to Assemblies etc. 
to be Chosen To-day, New 
System on Trial
BE SURE TO VOTE
The class officers who wore nomi
nated last Wednesday at separato 
class mootings of tlio College of En
gineering, will bo voted on today by 
all classes concornod. The election 
of all officers for all classes will bo 
carried on at one timo. .
In ordor to olimlnato any confus
ion-, bIvg 4!ie.!r mkio:;
to tlio person In cliargo of the ballot 
box, who will check tlhol'r names off 
the list. Absolute fairness is thus as
sured. This election ruling must be 
carried out by every voter.
It is tlio duty of ovory student in 
the Junior, Sophomore and Plebe 
classes to voto l'or the person who Is 
best fitted for the office he Is nomi
nated for. Show your loyalty to your 
class and Alma Mater and do not 
fail to VOTE TODAY.
M. M. C. C. ELECTIONS
Next Years Senior. 
Priscilla Allison, president. 
Ray Fino, vico president. 
Grace Patterson, secretary. 
Eleanor Martin, treasurer. 
Iiortonso Purdy, Sonato Rop.
Sophomores.
Presidont, Dot Smith; vice presi
dent, Dot.Weber. Plebo regulations, 
Sara May Everett; Senate Rep., 
Mary Speers; social chairman, Rose 
Moran.
STUDENTS LOANS WILL
BE AVAILABLE FOR
SOME UPPERCLASSMENJ
In addition to the scholarships and j 
prizes enumerated on this prQcodiug | 
pages, a loan fund has been establish
ed for assisting students in financial 
straits. It is not possible to consider 
favorably every application, as the 
fund is comparatively small and the 
number of students proportionately 
large, but in cases of emergency suit
able sums of money are loaned to stu
dents in good standing at a low rate 
of interest on the security of tliolr 
personal note, carrying the signature 
of one endorser. The payment of in
terest becomos effoctlvo on gradua
tion. It Is the preference of the In
stitute to limit loans to members of 
the Junior and Senior classes. Appli
cations should bo made to the Dean 
of Men.
WOMENS BANQUET 
TICKETS AT $1,50
Mrs. J. O. Miller and Dean 
Scales Will Speak 
at Banquet
The womens banquet to be held 
on Saturday night at 5:30, in Margar
et Morrison, will be the most import
ant event of Campus Week for tlio 
alumni and under-graduate women of 
Carnegie. The banquet Is a new feat
ure of Campus Woolc and wo want to 
make It as much of a success as the 
girls did last year of our now famous 
Mardi Gras.
The alumnae can play an important 
part in tlio success of this and they 
are in a position to appreciate the 
real value, of such an affair.
The speaker of tlio evening Is to 
be Mrs. J. O. Miller, to whom there 
need bo no Introduction. Mrs. Millor Is an oxcollont spoakor and OLT 
wore fortunato to socuro her.
Director Brood and Doan Scales will 
bo honor guests.
Stunts and music will bo furnished 
by both studonts and alumnae and 
a Rood time Avas had by all is as
sured.
Send to your class roprosontatlvo 
or tlio Alumnao Campus Wook com
mlttoo $1.50 Avlt.li a Campus Wook tag 
$1.75 Avlthoul. It. Reservations 
must bo made by Thursday, the 25th.
Tlio studonts aro counting a lot on 
the support of the alumnao, so don't 
lot .X disappoint, thorn'. Lot iw inalin 
It so suociussCul that, whon It Is over 
Yo can bo proud of having had a part 
in It.
SWEEPSTAKES COURSE IS 
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
NOMINATIONS FOR NEW CLASS OFFICERS
Booth Kr PI inn, contractors and en
gineers, have Just submitted tholr fi
nal bid for track construction of Iho 
course over which the Inter I'rulornlty 
Sweepstakes Is to bo run during Cam
pus Wook,
In tliolr first bid they chargod us 
l^oi* two more bricks and an ovon 
thirty grains moro of sand than we 
figure on using. Taking that mater
ial Into consideration In tliolr second 
bid, they knocked off $6)431'.22, Avhicli 
makes their final hid an even million. 
This seems a trifle high, but Avlion 
you figure that our boys will make 
about 75milesiper on the straightway 
and even 90 on the turns youll realIzo that It Is necessary that wo liavo 
a first class road bod.
Construction Is to bo of standard 
matorlals and down to the loAvost 
specifications. The Arrow Collar Com
pany will furnish the ties, and the 
rails av111 be of a low-grade brass, 
( borrowed from the Anti-Saloon, Act. 
(Those Avorn thin from hob-nalls will 
be condemned.) SAVitches will be borroAvod from the soroities, and all 
(Continued on Page Four.)
SCIENCE
Nominations for Senior Class of
ficers :
President.
J. T. Ames, Hugh Springle, J. D. 
Evans, G. N. Thompson, D. Porter
field.
Second high man to be vice (presi
dent.
Secretary.
H. J. McCormick, T. H. Ander
son, J. Hall, A. C. Crago.
Treasurer.
L. J. Ferrell, J. J. Donnelly, G. A. 
Coburn, H. F. Dieter.
Senate.
P. C. Gannon, M. S. Gare, W. M. 
Cummins, A. H. Tosteson, E. Berglund, G. N. Thompson, E. E. Smith.
Student Activities Board.
S. E. Brill hart, M. A. Rosenbloom, 
O. J. Horger, M. S. Gare, S. J. Dun
can.
Athletic Council.
A. H. Tosteson, C. C. Brumbaugh, 
J. L. Anderson, M. A. Rosenbloom, 
J. T. Ames, K. Foster, Hugh Sprinkle, 
J. D. Evans, Kreddel, J. Tubbs,
Nominations for Junior Class of
ficers:
President.
E. M, Johnston, W. H. Ryan, C, N. 
HolIingsAvorth, T. N. Griggs, J. Robei'tson.
Second high man to be vie presi
dent.
Secretary.
E. Robertson, R. C. Clement, G. 
Eruggemeier, G. W. Walter.
Treasurer.
P. Schucker, H. G. Fritz, H. 
Kramer.
Senate,
R. .A. Garbett, A. G. Fencilv V. C. 
Johnson, J. C. Major. ^ N
I~\ \
Student Activities Board.
E. M. Johnson, T. Griggs, J. 
Louglirey, Ryan, W. W. I. Miller, 
R. Patton.
Thistle Board.
R. A. Garbett, C. N. HollingsA. D, Scheinman, B. F. Brown, W. 
Kaufman, P. Gossard.
Nominations for Sophomore offi
cers:
President.
Gilbert, James, Slye, H. N. Smith, 
McClelland.
Second high man to be vice presi
dent.
Secretary.
Miller, Grodner, Frazier, Slye, Kemery, J. G. Lord. '
Treasurer.
McClelland, Matter, Joynt, OAven.
Senate.
Matter, H. N. Smith, Kemery, Mc
Clelland.
Thistle Board.
Slye, Will, Rossini, Gardner; Rasfibach, Grodner, F, C. Smith,
Vice President.
Cornelious, Powrie.
Secretary.
Matteson, Geary, H. D. Sonneman.
T reasurer.
W. Anderson, Trccbsel.
INDUSTRY
Industry Asoembly Officers. 
President.
L. J. Johnson, F. C, Fisher, R. 
Marshall,
Vice President
Tom McDonald, E, Geary, Green
law.
Secretary.
F. Gore, R. Smith, C. Comfort, 
Treasurer,
A. L. Zinn, Brooks, Hughes, M. 
Kallfllz.
SENIOR CLASS 
President.
Zelt, Geary, Wl, Anderson,
JUNIOR CLASS OFFICERS 
President
F. Gore, A. C. McCollum, W. Cun
ningham, H. Dosey. .
Vice Pre8ident.
A. Justice, J. Foster, A. Reese.
Secretary.
L. R. Brown, S. Wooley, R. Kruse, 
E. Berglund.
T reasurer.
S. Dyke, R. Livingston, W. W. Mc
Collum.
Thistle Board.
T. Matter, Jeffries, Buckley, R, U. 
Porter, Saul's, Justice, Hanna, S. 
Dyke, A. Shillinger.
SOPHOMORE CLASS 
President 
T. J. Dempsey, O. M. Lundy, F, T>. 
Brooks, H, It. Sav/yer, M. D. Kail* 
felz, l>. it MJms, T. R. Mitchell, J.
E, Mill.
Vice Prcuidcnt.
0, L. Spear, W, I). Smith, A. L. 
Zlnn, R. M. White.
Secretary,
F. T. Phelps, C. W. Fire, K. H. 
Sampson, A. 8, Andrews, O, H. Mar
tin.
T reasurer.
T, F, Kelly, if. J. Rukenbrod, G.
H. Carl, T. H. Wrote, G. A. Allerton, 
R. W. Bankier, J. Kelly, J. A, Bar
ber.
(Continued on Page Four.)
DEAN TARBELL 
GETS LEAVE 
OF ABSENCE
Illness Causes Dean Tarbell 
to Give Up Work Tempor
arily. Office to be in Charge 
of H. K. Kirkpatrick.
NEW DEAN POPULAR
Dean Tarbell has been obliged to 
give up his work for the remainder 
of the college year, on account of ill
ness. He loft Pittsburgh Sunday for 
Capo Cod. Mr. II. Iv. Kirkpatrick, in
structor in English, will be in charge 
of his office until after Commence
ment.
H. K. KIRKPATRICK
Mr. Kirkpatrick Is one of the host 
llkod and most popular Instructors In 
tho College of Industries and Sclenco. 
Till IX duo to tho following reasons: 
Ho has had a groat deal of oxporlonoo 
In dealing with students of all typos; 
ho understands thostudont viewpoint 
thoroughly, and Is entirely in sympa
thy with them and tliolr problems. 
r.iiuYi'iljfi with thiii ilo i'lfiftsui-iseM <. 
novoiTnlllng cheerful disposition, and 
an untiring patience iln dealing with 
the Individual student.
Having travolod extensively, lie hau 
boon brought Into contact with a 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Burying of Old Man P. 
R. May 25, 1:30P.M.
Plebe Regulations, to be Dis
continued
Architectural Staff Increased
An important appointment has been 
made at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology In the selection of James Cliillman, Jr., as assistant professor of 
Architectural Design, In the College 
of Fine Arts. Mr. Chillman, a native 
of Philadelphia, Is noAV studying in 
Rome, Italy. He OLIN begin his duties 
at Carnegie Tech In September.
Mr. Chillman was graduated from 
the University of Pennsylvania in 
1914 with the degree of Master of 
Arts. For several years he Avaa an 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Tho present lloho elans will bo nficoptod as hona-IIdo mombors of tho 
Carnegie Clan at, tho Qualification 
Day exorcises which OLIII tako placo 
on tho campus at Is80 p. m., Thurs
day, May ssG. This part of the pro
gram Is the center of Intorost for all 
Plebes, who, upon tills day, avIII ho 
freed from humiliation and will be
come mombors of tho Carnegie (Man.
The oxorclsos, which will be hold
oil tho campus, will begin with a fu
neral parade of all Plebes, headed by 
tI3 pallbearers carrying a coffin In 
which lies the effigy of old man Plebo 
Regulations. After the sermon of tho 
burial service, all the Plebes will file 
past the coffin and throw upon the 
funeral pile their Plebe caps, black 
socks and black ties, tokens of a past 
condition of bondage.
Tho Plebes OLIII be royally wel
comed into the Carnegie Clan Avliile 
Mr. Taylor, head of the Forge Depart
ment, welds a new link on to tho Car
negie Chain.
COMMENCEMENT BALL
HELD JUNE 16 AT ARTS
Preparations are nearing comple
tion for the Commencement Ball to 
be held in the Arts Foyer on June 
16th. Faculty, Seniors. Juniors, and 
Alumni are Avelcome. The orchestra 
is still a question of doubt, but suf
ficient to say, it will be a good one. 
This OL ill be the last dance of tho 
college year.
Coronation Mardi Gras Queen 
Feature Event, Campus Week
The eleven names printed below 
are those of tho leading contestants 
for Carnegie Techs Queen of the 
Mardi Gras, An analysis of the votes 
cast shows several things. This 
makes tho third Issue of tho Carnegie 
'Partan in which ballots were printed, 
and only a small fraction of the num
ber of possible votes liavo been cast. 
Part of this discrepancy between bal
lots and votes cast is duo to the fact 
that typmo one Is guilty of removing 
soveral of the ballot boxes. Whoever Is responsible for the taking of 
the boxes committed a deplorable act. 
Tho voting shows that soveral of the 
girls are extremely popular, and that 
is as it should he; but the taking of 
uncounted ballots will noLjhave a ma
terial Effect on the contest. We find it 
hard io believe that at Tech Man 
Avould commit an act of this nature 
Tlier is a tendency amng certain
\
of the students toward considering 
tills contest a jolcq, It is not!
Wo desiro to elect the most popu
lar girl In tho Sonlor class for this 
honor, and It is an honor and a mark 
of distinction. Tho winner will ho 
crowned by Will Mays and tho cere
mony will be filmed by the movie 
weeklies,
If only a few pooplo take an Interest 
In tills tliei'o Is a great danger that 
we will not elect the most popular 
girl. The girls elected will got a 
great deal of publicity throughout tho 
country, and will bo judged by tho 
world at large as Carnegie Techa 
representative girl student.
Keep this in mind, and cast your 
vote now for the girl, you think most 
deserving of the honor. If you do not 
knoAv the- girls personally, make your 
selection ij from the photographs on 
(Continued on Page Two.)
i /

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1922
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENSC. M. Stauft
mKERVIlL &IN C-1 ^PubllBhed every week by undergraduatOH of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered In tho Posto/ilce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
FIUtlDBJUCK L. KNOWLES ............................... JAditor^-Chlof
Telephone, May,cl 9398
WILLIAM It..MILLS.................................................................. Business Manager
Telephone, Schenley 2053-11
VIC. II. STIIOMQUIST ............................................................... Managing Editor
Telephone, Hlland 808
HELEN V. LEWIS ................................................................ ABBoelato Editor
Telephono, Schenley 9079
L, J. WHITE HEAD ..................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9070 '
EDWARD A. BRAND............................................................................. CTAt Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9070
H. F. SIMPSON .................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Tolcphone, Schenley 9070
t. II. GUYTON.................................................................................... Photographer
O. A. DICK.MAN............................................................................. Exchange Editor
tl. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................. Advertising Manager
Telephone. Schenley 9211 
0. L. REMMiY ......................................................................... Circulation Manager
UDITORI Ah ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Bogue, M. Schumacher, M. F. Dieter, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
P. C. Mackon/Je, H. H. Lofkowlt/,, W. J. Bolton, L. Hert'/.m&n, E. J. Maust, 
II, J.', Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M, S. Downes, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. 
Byerly, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. Mattuon, II. ,T. Kredol, F. D. Rossini, V. L. 
Jipencer, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. II, Wilson, H. J. McCormick, .1. A. Berno, L. D. AlhihouBe, E. C, Fra/,lor,
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. M. Cooper, 13. Sowers, W. 13. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltenhauaer, J. C, 
'/in1}or, F. H. Allison, A. D. Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schucker 
'vnd T. J. Dempsey.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible l'or tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for the make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All nows Items must ho In tho student 
post oillco before 4:80 Friday.
Tartan OlflceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Olllce hours-Tuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Interesting Talk Will be 
Given on Vacuum Tubes
There will be a very Interesting 
meeting of the C. I. T. Radio Club 
tonight. In Room 103, Machinery Iiall. 
Prof, Nathahson, of the Physics De
partment, will give a talk on Vac
uum Tubes, He has made consider
able research on this subject, and Is 
prepared to give some very Import
ant Information on Vacuum Tube 
circuits In Radio communication. No 
person Interested In radio can afford 
to miss this lecture.
Invitation Is extended to the mem
bers of the A. I, E. E. and tho Signal 
Carp of the R. O. T. C. The meeting 
will start promptly at 7:45 p rn. Wo 
urge you to be present at the begin
ning of the meeting, as you can not 
afford to miss any part of the talk. 
After Prof, Nathanson lias delivered 
his lecture, he will he prepared to 
answer any questions arising during 
the course of hi talk. This Is a 
wonderful opportunity for radio en
thusiast X to find answers to some of 
their questions.
OQueiE
(VT Thj E
WfcK6100 PENN AVENUE
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
School of 
Chemical Engineering Practice
A graduate school with stations established in industrial 
plants located ot Bangor, Maine, Boston, Mass., and 
Buffalo, New York, tfhere the field of chemical engi
neering is studied systematically on large-scale apparatus 
and v3here instruction is given in the opplication of 
chemical and chemical engineering theoi^ to practice.
The total number admitted to the School is limited 
and the students, studying and experimenting in small 
groups, receive individual attention.
Before admittance to the School of Chemical Engineer
ing Practice all students must have adequate preparation 
in chemisto> and engineering. The able student can 
complete the requirements for the Master of Science 
Degree in one and a half >ears.
During the past two jlenrs representatives of twentyfour colleges have ottended the School of Chemical 
Engineering Practice and these men comprised over one 
half of the attendance.
For further details address:
R. T. HASLAM. Director. Room 2-131 
School of Chemical Engineering Practice 
Massachusetts Institute ol Technology, Boston, Mass.
Mechanical Engineers 
Hold Banquet Tonight
At 7 p. m. tonight tho members and 
faculty of the Mechanical Engineer
ing Department will assemble at the 
Seventh Avenue Hotel for their an
nual banquet. Many novel features 
will mark tills event as the high spot 
of the year for the Grease Wipers. 
J. C. Hobbs, who received the first 
degree in mechanical engineering from 
Carnegie Tech, will be on hand to 
give his views on the young engineer 
and his problems. E. A. Lawrence, 
well known patent attorney from 
downtown, will expose the weaknesses 
of theWngineer in business. And then 
further to keep the program on its 
lofty level, Prof. Trink and "Bill 
Pfouts, two of the most famous afterdiner speakers In . these (or any 
other) parts, will compete for honors 
In telling the best story of the year.
An important electionthe officers 
for next yearwill be held at this 
meeting so It is desirable that all 
members of the department be on 
hand. See your section loaders for 
tickets, o,r let them know in somo 
way that you will Invest a dollar and 
a half In the [best get-together of the 
year.
Y. W. C. A. WILL GIVE TEA FOR 
FACULTY ADVISORY BOARD
On Wednesday afternoon at 4:30 in 
the Roc Hail of the Margaret Morri
son Building, tho Y. W. C. A. will 
reoive at tea in honor of tho new 
Faculty Advisory Board. Every one 
is urged to come and meet the mem
bers of tho Board.
"RENNYS PLACE" AT
AT SCHENLEY THEATER
interfraternity House 
Dance Next Wed. NightROAMINS
One of the new features of Campus 
Week this year is the Inter-fraternity 
house dances, which are to be held 
Wednesday evening, May 24. This 
event will in reality open the Campus 
Week festivities, although it is not of
ficially opened until assembly, Thurs
day morning.
Each lra,temity is to hold a house 
dance, which is to be very informal. 
The big feature of these dances, and 
the thing that makes them, different 
from any fraternity house dance held 
at Carnegie Tech heretofore, is the 
fact that they are migratory.
By migratory we mean the couples 
are to visit from house to house, 
dancing a while at each place. By 
doing tli'Js, it gives the alumni a 
chance to meet their old classmates 
and buddies of schooldays. Also, it 
will serve the purpose of giving the 
members of the different fraternities 
a chance to meet each other. A getto-getlier such' as this promises to be 
is a mighty good -way to give Campus 
Week -a send-off.
The only thing that can keep the 
dances from being a success would bo 
a rain on Wednesday evening. The 
mode of going from house to house 
that will bo in voguo will be walking. 
Let us hope that it does not rain.
It pays to advertise.
This includes anything saleable.
The way to make Carnegie Tech 
the best school in America-is to make 
it attractive to. the best men in Amer
ica.
People admit that the best car is 
the Macfarlane. When a man wants 
the best car he buys a Macfarlane, 
if he has money, in other words if he 
is fitted to own one.
When people admit that Carnegie 
is the best school, men wanting the 
best education will go to Carnegie, if 
they have the brains, in other words 
if they are fitted to go. And the 
ones who are best fitted to go are the 
best men.
We must sell Carnegie to the peo
ple of America.
If we want to sell anything, we 
dont put it in the cellar where no 
one can see it.
We put it up where everyone can 
see it, we explain its good points, and 
remedy its bad ones. We advertise 
that we have a good thing and we 
want every one to know about it.
Its not customary to advertise a 
school with bill posters, hut we can 
do something better.
Let each Carnegie man and woman 
talk Carnegie Tech to their friends, 
not aB a superior place fit only for iniGlteetmd 'prodigies;...but'- as a fine
school where one can get a practical 
education. The soul of a school is 
its students and when people see 
that the students are boosters, they 
get an idea that the school is good.
Whenever anyone mentions Car
negie ech to iyou, try to tell them 
just what it is, in a quiet but con
vincing way and thus reflect credit 
upon your school and yourself.
Boost Carnegie Tech, and bo 
boosted. i
F. C. S.
DUCKING
The lifeless body, which was recovered from Machinery Hall 
tank last week, brings a fearJul warning. That such, a thing is pos
sible, that such a thing could have happened never occurred to any 
ol! our Sophomore classes. That we have been just lucky enough 1;o 
have missed such an occurrence should make us considerate, thoughl;- 
ful and thankful.
The young lad, who was just out for a swim, did not have a 
thought that it would be his last swim. Probably the tank has been 
liis swimming hole for several years, not only for him, but for several 
ol: his chums. They thought like all oJ! our Sophomore classes 
thought:  Water wont hurt anybody. Water in Machinery Hall 
tank caused the death of one young fellow. Now we know what is 
possible, what might occur every time a Plebe is thrown into the 
tank.
Ducking Plebes in Machinery Hall tank should be prohibited. 
The Administration might prohibit it, the Student Council might 
take action, but we would rather have it come from the Sophomore 
and Plebe classes. Just imagine how you. and I would feci if the 
body of one of our classmates was sent home with the coroner's deci
sion I hat death, was caused by ducking in tho tank!
We cant have this happen.
John Hancock Said:
(IN 1774)
I
 HAVE ever considered it as the indispensable 
duty of every member of society to promote, as 
far as in him lies, the prosperity of every indi
vidual, but more especially of the community in 
which he belongs.
Life insurance is inseparably bound up with the 
prosperity of every individual, family and community. 
It is a secure and prosperous business and satisfactory 
to the salesman in every way.
The RTtE NOEnTnG would like to interest a few 
ambitious men who graduate this year to make RTtE 
NOEnTnG selling their life work.
 * Statistics on -cottage-graduates- who have entered 
life insurance place it at the very top as a source of 
income. Before making a decision as to your career 
it would be well to make inquiries of the Agency 
Department.
Calendar of Student Events
(Continued From Pago One,) 
lor, jack of all trades and master of 
cooking, .Too Lazarus makes a good 
question mark In tho show-Any 
small town would bo proud to liavo 
Goorgo Hoag as a member of its 
Chamber, ol! Commerce bocauso ho 
could malco a flourishing city out 
of nn arid 'desertTho camera man, 
as portrayed by William MeAtoor, 
runs true to form.
Now for tho gals: To' top tho list,
I,boros little Peggy Harmon, who just 
now 1 shooting biscuit (and bull,) 
hul, who hopes to give Marguorlto 
Clark, a run for her money.. Poor 
Marguorlto (?) SIUX Harmon can ho 
well re'momborod for. her comedy 
characterizations. Sho was too hard* 
ludlml for rtojiny, so ho wont and Coll 
In lovo with a port llttlo Ingenue, as 
playod by Ruth Kaufman. I-Ior smile 
ai*o so winning that wo four that 
tho follows In Iho front row will httvo 
to bo tied down. Thoro might have 
boon no show If Adelaide Ziolo, as 
the richest woman in Chooser, had 
not boon the richest woman. Miss 
Ziole will have an opportunity to add 
another characterization to the al
ready long list she has made this 
year. As her little daughter, big(?) 
Peg Ripley is just "too cute for 
words. ("I love that!) As the 
little flapper she has a chance to 
flap all over the place.
So .now, boys and gals, gpt your 
little gray tag in a hurry and save, 
twenty five cents on your meal tick
et. It will be absolutely tho one and 
only performance given in Pittsburgh 
at this time. Tickets will be on 
sale the first of next week. Avoid 
the rush and buy early, to insure a 
grand finale to a grand Campus 
Week.
CORONATION MARDI GRAS QUEEN 
TO BE FEATURE EVENT OF C. W.
A matron is to bo engaged for the 
dormitories next year for the first 
time, with the purpose of introduc
ing such new measures as will add to 
the comfort of tho students and the 
cleanliness of their surroundings.
1 Wth regard to the government of 
the dormitories, all the residents of 
tho dormltorlos will) he asked to 
elect, during tlio first week of school, 
a house committee or dormitory councll of flvo men, into whose hands 
will ho placed adequate authority and 
responsibility, with jurisdiction over 
all the dormitories. Each dormitory 
will continue to elect as usual its 
own officers and floor managers. The 
house oommltloo plan 1s new, and 
should bring about still further im
provements in dormitory government.
*c gFFH
arYi IEPBUOEni ,T.WOEDM1
or Boston. Massachusetts 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England 
Use Tartan Ballot and vote for rant nn .7. . m nn M mwa ram ran |mi MRS fflHf rnPTi tnTBi nan prna iron prm r-yrriQueon._______M WBBBBB BBBH B BBBB B B
THOUSANDS of smokers have proved itand now give the verdict 
to you  Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced  none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes
None has the delicious 
FLAVOR of the finestTurkish 
ms None gives the, ENJOY|y$ MENT of the finest Turkish
None will SATISFY you as 
E will the finest Turkish
None but the highest grade 
and personally selected 
f Turkish tobaccos is used in 
MURAD-enJy 10096 pure Turkish 
at its VERY BESTto reach 
i'll ^e PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
you have but to smoke 
MURADl6YROS.i^^|v Try MURAD today and
Judge for
____ Yourself!
Annual Carnegie Thistle 
For Sale on Campus Now
This year's Thistle is completed and 
ready for suile this week. The This
tle Board has worked very hard on 
this years issue, and their efforts are 
rewarded by placing on sale one of 
the best year books in many years.
Students who have subscribed for 
the Thistle during the first part of 
the year may obtain their book, by 
presenting their receipt at the This
tle office anc^ making tlieir final pay
ment if they have not already done 
so. There are no extra copies this 
year so only those who have subscrib
ed will be able to obtain them.
Everyone is urged to obtain their 
Thistle as soon as possible so that 
the Board can get every thing finished 
before the end of the school year.
.............................9:00 a. in., Courts
.........12:00 p. m., Fort Pitt Hotel
.............2:00 p. m., Schenley Oval
:00 p. m., M. M. C. G;.Lunch Room 
...................8:15, Schenley Theater
General Secretary of the Army Y. M.
C. A. at Devlali, Bombay Presidency, 
India. He continued this work until 
1919, when he was engaged as In
structor in, English at Penn State 
College. He came to Carnegie Tech 
in 1920.
CIGARETTEDEAN TARBELL GETS
(Continued From Page One.) 
great variety of students. . His wide 
and diversified experience with the 
individual problems of these students 
has given him an appreciation of the 
student viewpoint and an enviable un
derstanding of huma.il nature., ,
He has the students best interests 
at heart and is willing to co-operate 
at all times, not only in the class-room 
work, but in any type of problems 
that is brought to his attention.
He has made himself one of the 
student body, and has established a 
friendship with his students which 
will not easily be forgotten.
His cheerful disposition has croated 
an atmosphere of pleasantness in his 
class rooms. Students, come to his 
classos anticipating real enjoyment 
and uro never disappointed for ho 
bellovos that "All work and no play 
makes .Tacit a dull boy and occasion
ally mixes in a few of his Interesting 
experiences to brighten Iho dull spots 
:ln the dally grind.
An appreciation of Mr. Kirk Pat
ricks experience with the hoys and 
young men may he had from the fol lowing,:
in 1910 ho graduated from Sara
toga Springs (N. Y.) High School and 
in 1914 graduated from Cornell Uni
versity. Following his graduation 
frolli college lie was engaged as In
structor in Enfglish at the Dexter 
School for Boys at; Detroit. He was 
Principal of the Farmington (N. M.) 
High School from 1915 to .191(5 and 
Instructor in English at the Silver 
City (N. M.j Normal School during 
the summer session. His next two 
years were spent as Professor of 
English at Ewing Christian College, 
University of Allahabad, United Prov
inces, India. In 1917, at the begin-' 
ning of the war, he was engaged a
CAMPUS COURIER THE
AUTOCRAT OF THE
BREAKFAST TABLEY. W. C. A. HOLDS ANNUAL
CABINET ELECTIONS(Continued From Page One.) 
Journal, and staid news gatherers 
from the Tartan will link (pens with 
the brainless wits from the Puppet 
and hustling statisticians of the
Thistle, all for a niclcle, too.
All Hail the Queen.
By Thursday the lucky lady who 
is to bo crowned Queen of the Mardi 
Gras will he putting on the final 
coats and the suspense will ho some
thing terrible, Wholl relievo it, do 
you suppose? Tlio Campus Courier, 
of ooursQ. Yes, sir, shell comb right 
on In writing wl.th the name, address 
and telephone number of tho phortunnto phoinale, along with a. list of 
her dates to tho end of the semester, 
Mr. Hays himself will pay homage 
to the Queen and make a speech 
especially for tho Courier, which we 
predict will be worth reading.
And That Ain't All.
In addition to helping ye stude in* 
formed as to the happenings of the 
day, this jnv.'/.y little sheet will make 
an excellent souvenir to paste in 
your hat or send home to Pop along 
with the next, ca.ll for cash. No 
scrap book or photo album will be 
complete without one, and you will 
thank }|our ..loresight many. years 
from no\V if you sink fifteen pesos 
into a three day subscription.
The committee for Alpha Alpha Nu 
is composed of Knowles, Stromquist, 
Matter, [Franklin and Itepplier.
(Continued From Page One.) 
another page. The order of events 
for the coronation will be as follows: 
The throne will be erected in front 
of the Arts School. Coronation pro
cessional will proceed to throne, 
where the Queen will be crowned. Her 
ladles in waiting will be picked from 
the ruamers up for Queen.
After coronation, the 'Queen will 
mount carriage and parade will start. 
The Queen will bo followed by the 
onrt and all persons in costume.
Dancing will take place In all three 
halls, but will not start till after tho 
coronation.
Present Stnndlna of Candidates.
.ToBophlno Whitney.......................... 2.'12
Mary Little ..................................... 220
Mary Lissfelt..................................... 190
Marian Scull ................................... lt:i
Dorothy Burnett...............................151
Laura Burgher ............................... 97
Marian McCoombs ....................... 52
Harriet Morgan ............................. -10
Martha Levy ................................... ,S7
Mary MoCloskey ............................ 20
Annie McDonald ........................... 23
Last Sunda5r afternoon the Y. W.
C. A. held their annual cabinet elec
tions. The results were as follows: 
President, Marion Jones; vice presi
dent, Anne Weber; secretary, Mary 
Crawford; treasurer, Ruth Gleicher; 
faculty advisor, Miss Bowm&n; an
nual member, Eleanor Wilt.
This new cabinet is planning to 
hold a week end convention during 
the latter part of this school year, at 
whicli time they will make their plans 
for the year of 1922-23.
CAPITAL STOCK OWNED BY P.LORILLARO CO.
XI SIGMA UPSILON TO
SECURE NEW QUARTERS
XI Sigma Upsllon has glven up for 
tho summer Its house at 5810 Bartlett 
Street. M'ho Pittsburgh Alumni are 
working in conjunction with th activo chapter to secare lioadquarters 
cousidorably closer to tho campus, 
and th committoe has sevoral oxcellent locations in vlow. Tho now loca
tion will he nnnouneed lutei*, and it 
is lioped to open thjb house in September.
QUEEN OF TECHS MARDI GRAS
NOMINATION AND BALLOT COUPON
When this coupon is properly fined out and placed in a ballot box, it
shall count as one vote for Miss.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Carnegie Upsets Dope 
And Smears Grove City
McCaw Twirls Fine Game 
and Wins Easily.
Last Thursday afternoon on the 
Tartan diamond. Carnegie defeated 
the Grove City team by the score of 
13-2.
McCaw twirled the entire game for 
the Plaid and pitched masterful ball
roughout the game, Grove pity at 
nc time threatened to overcome- Car
negie's lead. Lowers started the game 
for Grove City but was forced to re
tire in the second inning when the 
heavy hitters of the Tartans gathered 
four hits for a total of four runs. Gpdden opened the inning with a two 
base drive, and Irwin was safe at first 
on an error by Sellers, playing third 
base for Grove City. Mills then flied 
out to first but Robertson scored both 
Godden and Irwin with a three base 
drive to center field. McCaw, next 
up, hit the first ball pitched to him 
for a double to left field, scoring Rob
ertson and going to third on J. Do
hertys out. R. Doherty scored Mc
Caw with a single and this ended the 
scoring for this inning. Carnegie 
scored another in the third on Cappe's 
double and sacrifices by Godden and 
Irwin, and added two more runs in 
the fourth, one in the seventh and 
five in the eighth for a total of713 
runs. The condition of the field made 
fast playing almost impossible and 
many of the ground balls went for 
hits that would have been outs on a 
good field. Joe Doherty was spiked 
at second base in the first inning but 
refused to retire and played the en
tire game, contributing many of the 
fielding features. Coach Kirkpatrick 
has gathered a team of sluggers and, 
barring injuries, ought to finish well 
up in the race for the Tri-State Cham
pionship. The score:
Carnegie Tech 0412001 5 x13 
Grove City 00001100 02
ATHLETIC COUNCIL URGES 
SPEED ON NEW FIELD
NEW OFFICERS FOR GIRLS
DORM COUNCIL ARE ELECTED
The new officers for the Inter-Dor
mitory Council have been elected, 
and are: Pres. Lenore Davis; vicepres. Priscilla Allison; sec-treas. Joyce 
Miles; M. M. rep. Berwice Rentz; 
design rep. Gretchen Hoffman.
The new officers of Forbes Hall
The Carnegie Tech athletic council 
held a meeting in the office of the 
Graduate Manager, at 2 p. in. Sunday, 
April 30, 1922.
President Overend presided, while 
Weber. Stults, Laboon, Dean Tarbell. 
Casey, Prof. Leeds, Dr. Marks. Lee. 
Henderson, Irwin, F. J. Lanaluin and 
Secretary Haaren were present.
Minutes of the previous meeting un
der date of March 25 were not read, 
as they had been forwarded to each 
member of the council by mail. They 
were duly approved.
Frank Orbin made a report for the 
administration showing the present 
status of the work of resurfacing the 
football field, showing the progress 
made, as well as the amount of funds 
spent and still available. The report 
showed that approximately ?4,300.00 
had been expended to date out of the 
$5,000.00 available, and that practically 
all of the cinders1 would be 
placed. Among the things still to be 
used were placed. Among the 
tilings still to be done, 
are obtaining the sub and surface 
soil, placing the field drainage pipes, 
all of which constitutes the greater 
portion of the job. After considera
ble discussion of ways and means, 
President Overend suggested that the 
work should continue in full force and 
that immediate steps would be taken 
to provide additional funds to com
plete it. It was also decided that 
President Overend and Mr. Lanalian 
woujd constitute a committee of two 
to consult with Mayor Magee with 
reference to obaining co-operation in 
locating desirable surface soil for the 
field at a minimum expense.
A discussion of a rule governing ac
tion of varsity athletes who might en
gage in competition with outside 
teams during the period before and 
after college was in session was ta
bled for further discussion at the next 
meeting.
The Varsity Tennis and Track 
schedule was approved.
The council goes on record as be
ing unanimous in favoring the adop
tion of the Freshman rule in 1923. 
Final action will no doubt be taken 
at the next meeting.
are: Pres. Anne Stewart; vice-pres, 
Grace Moore; sec-treas., Junelda 
Wells.
Who will be Queen?
Golf and 
Sport Oxfords
Approved styles by experi
enced golfers and every golf, 
er knows that his shoes are 
a might important part of his 
equipment.
Style No. 6040  Smoked (tl ^
Horse, Tan Trimmed, FI- \ / 
bre Soles. Rubber Heels. Ip fi
We've Fitted Feet For Fifty Years
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN EAST LIBERTY
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
LAST WEEK
Last week was a good one if we place in the back part of our memory 
system the Ohio State Track Meet. Grove City and Juniata fell before the 
onslaughts of the Plaid Baseballers, while Tlxlel dropped a tennis tourna
ment.
The baseball team under the careful direction of Enos Kirkpatrick is 
in top form, and from now on should give a good account of itself. The 
men, with the sole exception of Chipper Smith, pitcher, are in good shape. 
Weiss and Warrick are again ready to bear their part of the pitching bur
dens with McCaw and Cappe. Smith may or may not perform again this 
season. If not, he will be missed very much. But, even so it is believed 
the remaining four can stand the burden in a highly satisfactory manner.
The victory over Grove City is most impressive when it is considered 
they hold victories over Pitt and West Virginia. It was the first game they 
have lost this year. May the good work continue this week when they 
are met in Grove City.
Juniata holds to her credit a win over Buclcnell, who in turn defeated 
Penn State. West Virginia also fell before them.
The victory of the tenuis team over Thiel is much more impressive 
when it is remembered' that Colonel Brooks played his second string men 
in the'singles with the exception of Connie Schwartz.
All in all, twas, even considering the track meet, not such a bad week 
rather on the contrary, 'twas extra GOOD.
SEEN FROM THE BLEACHERS
Red Godden saved Cappe from a boner by hitting safe. Cappe and 
Durkin were on second and third respectively, with Godden at bat. Cappe 
started for third as the pitcher started to wind-up, forgetting Durkin was 
there. Fortunately Godden drove out a single and saved Cappe's reputation.
Jimmy Robertsons catch of the Texas leaguer on a short-bounce 
was pretty. He came in fast, hoping to take it at his shoe-strings and on 
the fly, but was just a fraction of a second too late. Nice try though!
Cappes relay home of Robertsons peg from deep left, catching Hoffman 
at the plate was the prettiest play of the game.
Carnegies two runs in the first resulted from a wild-throwing mania 
on the part of Juniata, coupled with hits by Joe and Ray.
The Plaid fiy-cliasers are sure there when it comes to running around 
the various obstacles in the field in getting to fly balls.
Big Bill Warrick helped win his own game by a hard single with 
second and third populated. He did it twice.
Ray Doherty ran back of the bleachers and nabbed a foul flylimps 
was asleeprit didnt count.
In the Grove City game "Red misjudged one, but finally got it with 
a pretty running catch.
Ray saved Joe from an error when he neatly took his wild peg to first 
on a short bound.
Cappe started off like a house afiretook three hard chances in the first 
two innings.
Joe ran into left field on one occasion, and on another into center and 
nipped two hits in the bud.
Plant and Hedlund did some nifty coaching on first and third respectively..
Joe Mails climbs the hill after balls much like unto a monkey. That's 
the way to get em!
Skinny made a swell catch up on the hill. 1-Ie fell but held the ball.
Oiler, who first based for Juniata made a pretty catch of a foul ily.
A fast double play in the ninth ruined a rally by Juniata.
We nominate Jim Campbell to the Hall of Famehe pitched a NO 
HIT, NO RUN game against Aspinwall I-Ilgh School.
Skibo Track Men Lose 
Meet to Ohio State
All-Time Manager Eddie Hirsch of the Alumni Tennis Team wont give 
out the identity of his team to meet the Varsity during Campus Week. But 
even so, well make a guess. It will consist of "Jack Beatty, Toots" Davis, 
Phil- Marshall, S.teve Stockslager, "Bob Schmertz, John I-Iarkness and 
anotherwe admit we dont know who ho is.
We understand this tourney will be a nine-match one . In othor words 
it will be between six-men teams. It will be a "hum-dinger too!
Bob Schmertz, who, besides being a member of the Alumni tennis 
team, Is working on the new Gyni plans. He advises us that the plans will 
be finished in about three months. No so very pleasing, but at any rate, it 
Is something definite.
STANDING OF FRATERNITIES
JACQUES DANciNG ACADEMY f
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET {
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year. V
BELL PHONE X
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally. ?
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL 
(Continued1 From PagoOne.)
6.Tau Ga-mma Phi ............ 46.40
7.Beta Theta Pi ................ 43.98
8.Xi Sigma Epsilon -----____ 42.G4
9.iSigma Alpha Epsilon____38.48
10.Delta Epsilon Omega____37.79
11.
12.Theta Xi ......................... 35.90
14.PI Ivappa Alpha ..........
in.Delta Mu ......................
1G.Kappa Sigma .................. 28.8
17.Square & Compass ....... 27.33
18.Delta Phi Delta ............ 22.5
10.Kappa Sigma Rho ....... 11.2
Carnegie, With New Men 
Beats Thiel at Tennis
LOST  On the campus, a small 
gold 'fountain pen, inscribed with 
name. Finder pleaso return to Dean 
Tarbell's Office.
. In Architecture
W
HEN you go after your first big commission, youll 
need something more than a knowledge of stresses 
and strains, periods and piping. Youll need the atmosphere 
of success, and the air of knowing your way round. One 
evidence of this familiarity with the worlds good things is 
the habit of preferring that citizen of the world
cMelachrino
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
Those who saw the tennis matchoa 
, between our Plaid team and the Thiol 
College team will surely say that 
Coach Brooks is tostlng his men well 
In order to get a first class team to 
compote against the opponents for the 
remainder of the schedule.
"Rog" Marshall started the ball roll
ing <by defeating h.lsman in two qiulekly played sets. "Rog Is one ol! the 
old dependable and the coach Is 
lucky in having him back to fill the 
position ho hold two years ago.
The second singlos were lost, wlion 
'Simpson was defeated by Forsythe. 
From tho spectators point of view the 
match lacked the action of tho othor 
matches. "Hank did not play his 
own gamo, and neither did lie havo 
the necessary confidence iu hlmsolf 
to defeat liist man, who is much less 
experienced at the game.
Without much resistance, "Con 
Schwartz took over his match with 
Miller. This was expected for "Con
nie is playing better tennis every 
day.
Ivemery, new material with whom 
Colonel Brooks is experimenting, 
came out in fine style against his op
ponent, Jackson. This being his first 
year lie deserves credit for showing 
ability sufficiently to be considered by 
the coach.
The doubles teamed off as follows: 
Keil and Schwartz against Forsythe 
and Weiskotten; Captain Neville and 
Copley against Jhckson and Miller; 
Tech winning both of these matches 
gave us a final score of 5 matches 
to 1.
Remember that Melachrino is the master blend 
of only the finest Turkish Tobaccos as origin
ated byMiltiades Melachrino. Egyptian cigar
ettes are simply those that originated in Egypt. 
Bur the tobacco is what you want to know 
aboutand if its Melachrinoits right.
\
M\
Mellon Hall Election.
Mellon has held elections, and nam
ed at its officers next year: Peg
Coombs, president; Louise McGuiniss, vice president; Mary Viali, 
sec.-treas.
Mardi Gras Queen 
-VOTE NOWDon't Save Your Votes.
The Oakland 
Community House, 
3904 Forbes street, 
is maintained by 
educational funds 
of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church 
for the purpose of 
promoting Chris
tian fellowship 
among students of 
every creed. It is 
open from 9:00 A. 
M. to 11:00 P. M. 
every day.
WALK IN
Stars, Dykeman, Stults, Kelley 
and Robertson
In a dual track meet lust Friday, 
Carnegie Tech lost to Ohio State, 
SI to 45 at Columbus. Two Ohio 'Con
ference records were tied duriug tho 
meet. Kelly, star Plaid sprinter, 
equaled one mark when lie won tho 
220-yard dash in 21 3-5 seconds while 
MeCreary, Ohio State hurdler, tied the 
record for tihe 120-yard high hurdles 
by winning in 15 *1-5 seconds. Both 
of these men accumulated 10 points 
each, but Moorehead of Ohio State 
was high scorer with' 11 points to his 
credit.
In the quarter, half, and two mile 
events, tho time was a bit too fast 
for the Tartan runners and Carnegie 
Tech failed to place in any of these 
events. Larry Stults made a fine 
showing in the pole vault almost do
ing 11 feet G inches, which would 
have broken both the Ohio Conference 
mark and the school record. The 
meet was by no means' one sided and 
the Buckeyes were forced to the limit 
to win. The summaries:
100-Yard DashKelly. Carnegie 
Tech, first;/ Moorhead, Ohio State 
second; Lock, Ohio State, third. Time, 
:10 1-5.
One:Milo RunDykeman, Carnegie 
Tech, first; Ferguson, Ohio State, sec
ond; Kilpatrick, Ohio State, third. 
Time, 4:30 1-5.
Shot PutWhite, Ohio Stato, first; 
Comfort-t, Carnegie Tech, second; Sprin
kle, Carnegie Tech,, third. Distance, 
31 feet 5 1-4 inches.
Qnrter-Milo RunEverett, Ohio 
State, first; Pittonger, Ohio State, 
second; Trigg, Ohio State', third. 
Time, :50 2-5.
120-Yard I-Ilgh IlurdlesMeCreary, 
Ohio Stato, first; Arnold. Carnegie 
Tocli, second; Smith, Carnegie Tech, 
third. Time, :15 4-5.
High JumpiS'hideckor, Moorehead 
and Beard, all tied for first place. 
Height, 5 foot S In.cihes.
220-Yard DashKelly, Carnoglo 
Tech. first; Moorehead, Ohio State, 
second, Lock, Ohio State, third. Time, 
:2l 3-5.
9NtIf-MiMoGurney, Ohio Stato, first); 
KreJder, Ohio Stato, second; Magloy, 
Ohio State, third. Time, 1:58 8*5.
Polo Vault.Sttultz, Carnoglo Tocli, 
and Wolnland, Ohio. State, Hod for 
first; Hartor, Ohio State, and Bascom, Ohio Stato, tied for third. 
Height, 11 foot.
220-Yard Low I-Iurdlos - McCroary, 
Ohio Stato, first; Garo, Carnoglo Tech, 
socond; Arnold. Carnoglo Tocli, third 
Time, :25 3-5.
Two-Mllo RunWlkoff, Ohio Stato, 
first; Alborry, Ohio State, second; 
Crnnz, Ohio Stato, third. Time 10:04.
Discus ThrowShllllngor, Carnoglo 
Tocli, first; Knlublolc, Carnoglo Tech, 
socond; Sprinkle, Carnoglo Tech, 
third. Distance, 110 foot 2 Inchos,
Broad JumpRrtbortson, Carnoglo 
Toch, first; Connell, Ohio Stato, sec
ond; Hartor, Ohio Stato, third. Dis
tance, 21 foot 10%' Inchos,
Javolln Throw...Hoard, Ohio Stato,
first; Kaplow, Ohio State, second; 
Potcoff, Ohio Stato, third. Distance, 
1(10 Coot 1.0 Inchos.
Hammer Throw---Thomas, Ohio 
'State, first; Sprinkle, Carnoglo Tenh, 
oocond; Cahahlck, Carnoglo To'ih, 
third. Distance, 11K feet 2 Inch"
Baseball, Tennis, & Track Men 
Active in Coming Ten Days
'fills afternoon at Schonloy Oval, 
Carnoglo Tech will take on the Mount 
Union track squad In a dual moot. 
Mt. Union Is a new opponent for tho 
Sklhos on tho cinder path, but tho 
opposition will probably not be vory 
strong. 1 After tho showing against 
Ohio State, the Plaid should come 
through In fine style.
The baseball team takes a short 
jaunt through mid stale. Tomor
row at Juniata, Juniata will have 
the opportunity to get even for the 
defeat received from Carnegie, Saturday. This is going to be a hard 
game for the Tartan' nine, for In 
spite of the showing made In Pitts
burgh, their 6-0 victory over the strong 
Bucknell nine, and the fact that the 
Plaid is the only Tri-State team to 
beat them, is quite sufficient to give 
much respect.
Friday, Bucknell is met at Lewisburgh. Bucknell beat Penn State 
4-2 which means that Carnegie will 
have its hands full.
Saturday, Carnegie invades Penn 
State, at State College. With the 
nightmare of that 18-0 walloping re
ceived at Penn State last year still 
fresh in their minds, the Skibos will 
bo in no mood to come home with 
the little end of the score again this 
year.,
The track team also goes into ac
tion Saturday when Westminster will 
ibe met at Wilmington, Pa. While 
this meet ought to result in another 
victory for Carnegie, undue confiden
ce must carefully be guarded.
Watching Our Opponents
Baseball.
State College.,. 2Amor. C, Co., 10 
State College,,. !JNavy T, Club.IT
State College... 2fJucknell ........ I
State College., .1,2 WayneKburg ,, I 
State College., .10Bollefoiitatiio
Academy ... 1
Stato College.,. 2Bethany ........ 0
Stale Collogo... 7-,Yale ................ 4
Juniata ............. (1Bucknell ....... 1
Juniata .............. 3Carnegie .......XI
West Virginia. .11W. Va. Wes... 5
Grove City ........ 4Pitt ................ 3
Grove City ........11Westminster . 8
Grove City........3Carnegie ..........11
Grove City........ 4Pitt ................ 3
Grove City........ 4Pitt ................7
Bethany ............ 6St. Vincents. .13
Tennis.
Michigan ..........1Californla U..."2
Bucknell ........... 4Penn-State... 2
CAIHPBhlL TWIRLS N0-H1T 
GAA\E AGAINST ASPINWALL
"Jim Campbell of tho Carnoglo 
Toch Recurves baseball team (pitched 
himself into tho Plaid Hall of Fame 
last Friday when ho hold the hard-hit
ting Aspinwall High nine to no hits. 
Only two men succeeded In getting on 
bases, and only ono of these advanced 
as far as third. In the socond framo, 
Calhoun, short-stopping for Aspinwall 
was hit by a pitched ball. He was 
immediately caught pilfering. In the 
fourth, Sloden was safe when Jones 
on first base for the Reserves erred. 
In all other innings It was a case of 
three men up, and three 'men down. 
Only olio ball went to the outfield, 
and that was by the first, man up for 
Aspinwall In tho last Inning.. Camp
bell had twelve strike-outs to his 
credit. Only twenty-one men faced 
him throughout tho sovon innings 
played.
Greenlee, pitcher for Aspinwall 
hurled a. good game, giving only five 
hits.- but Waddells men made every
one count. Bight reserves fanned. 
Opportune hitting and errors paved 
the way to his defeat.
Carnegie scored three times in the 
socond inning. Jones, first up, was 
lilt by a pitched ball. Hedlund fol
lowed with a single. Both came home 
when Gibson doubled. Gibson scored 
when Campbell singled. Balir follow
ed with another of the same type, 
but both Balir and Campbell wero 
loft on bases when Plant whiffed.
In the seventh, Gibson struck out, 
but was safe when Lang had a passed 
ball. McWilliams was lilt by tho 
Pitcher. Both advanced a base on 
Campbells sacrifice, and scored when 
Balir drove through second.
"Poto Lytle and "Tiny Nesbit of
ficiated in good shape.
Pentathlon at Oval Monday
Carnoglo Techs Annual Pentathlon 
competition will take plaoo the after
noon of May 22d, at Schonloy Oval. 
This has come to bo an annual event 
with a trophy given to tho winner 
each year. Tho winner must score 
tflio highest number of points In tho 
following: 200-motor run, :i 500-motor
run, jaVelln throw, discus throw and 
broad jump,
To win the trophy, a man must bo 
a versatile, all-around athlete. Last 
your Jlm'mlo Robertson, star Plaid 
(tuiirtorlmck, was tho successful com
petitor. There Is plenty of material 
In school and the competition should 
bo closo tills year, Tho cup, which 
Is permanoutly given towlnnor, Is on 
exhibition in tho Beanery.
Uao Tartan Ballot and vote for 
Queen.
Tartan Nine Defeats 
Juniata College 11-3
Warrick Given Fine Support 
by Followers.
The Carnoglo Toch baseball team 
defeated Juniata College last Satur
day. The final score being 11 to 3. 
Pitcher Warrick was never in trouble, 
although allowing twelve scattered 
binglcs. while his teammates collect
ed enough hits to win several games. 
Tho fielding of tho Skibos was nearly 
perfect.
Tho onslaught was started in tho 
first inning, the Doherty brothers each 
producing a. run. Four more crossed 
the plate in the second.
Juniata was scoreless until the third 
Inning, when Oiler tallied. With one 
out Oiler was hit by a pitched ball; 
Hoffman singled, advancing liim; 
Laman filed to first and Shunte dou
bled, bringing in Oiler. Hoffman was 
caught at tho plate. Juniatas other 
tallies were brought in by Laman and 
Bard, in the fifth and sixth stanzas, 
respectively.
So hard and frequent was the hit
ting of the Tartans that Slinnte barely 
lasted two innings, when lie changed 
places with Snyder. The latter held 
Carnegie scoreless in the third, but 
thereafter did little better than his 
predecessor, being knocked for five 
runs.
Only one Carnegie man failed to 
connect for a base hit. J. Dohorty, 
Godden, and Robertson led with three 
safeties each, .loe Doherty also pro
duced three runs. Tho fielding of the 
entire team was good; two double 
plays wore executed.
Hoffman and Snyder of Juniata 
led their team-mates with throe hits 
apioco. Tlio fielding of tho visitors 
was fair. Tho score:
II H E
Junlnttu 001 oil 000 3 12 2 
Cnrnoglo 240 300 02x11 17 2
Stolen basos.1. Dohorty, Hoffman, 
Donaldson.
Sacrifice hitsR. Doherty, Irwin.
Two baso hitsR. Dohorty, Durkin, 
Cappo, Shunto.
Double plays--J. Dohorty to, Dur
bin to R. Dohorty: Warrick to Dur
kin to R. Dohorty; Donaldson to Ollor.
Struck out...By Warrick, 2; by Snydor, 2.
lilt hatflinanIly Warrick (Ollor).
Umpire, Cal Bolster.
Pair apodados. Inquire at Dean 
or STB2t Otllce.
KtT Tartan Ballot and voto for 
Qnoon.
~\RAW HA\~
Davies & Hughes
"Dopondablo"
Mattorn mid Men Furnlohoro.
3015 Forbou 
Sohonloy D408-M. Next to Strand Thontor.
Do You Need Extra Courses?I
Send for catalog describing over 400 courscs In History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by corrcnponddnca. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
lj? Umtimttg nf (ljtragn
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
Tack an M. Sh. After 
Your Name
I
MAGINE a course without profs; without 
study; without examinations, but with a 
degree awarded after the first lesson.
Thats the Williams Course in Shaveology. One trial of Williams Luxury Shav
ing Cream and you are an M.Sh.a Master 
of Shaveology.
No rules to follow. Rub it in or dont 
rub it in; use lots or little; cold water or hot 
it doesnt matter. If your razor is decently 
sharp and you have Williams within reach 
youll get a shave that you didnt know was 
possible.
A rich lathera thick 
lathera refreshing 
lather. And Williams 
gives instantly & feeling of 
health and vigor to your 
skin that no complexion 
soap can surpass.
Williams
Shaving Cream
r
484853482323235323535353538953484823532323010053232301

---------------------------------------------------

PAG? FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1922
SENIOR' WEEK TOCULMINATE SCHOOL YEAR
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
""Afternoon and Evening, Senior 
Voyage and Picnic.
Tiiraday, .Tune 15.
2:00 I*. M.Clami Day Exercise. 
-1:00 P. M.Opon JlounoForbott
and Mellon Hall,
8:15 P. M.Senior PlayLittle 
Theater.
Friday, .Tune 10.
10:00 A. M.Commencement and 
Reception.
8:iO P. M. Commencement Ball. 
Note: Event marked ** are Hub*
ject to change.
~\/HENEYCRAVATS 
 smart in pattern and 
colouringalways in good 
taste  knotting easily  
resisting wrinkles. Cravats 
of character. We will 
gladly show you our wide 
selections.
All Genuine Cheney Cra<va1s have 
the name stamped in the neckband
CHENEY
cmvAT
C. A. HEIMERT, 3614 Forbes Street 
CHAS. OCH, 3605 Forbes Street
CAMPUS WEEK ALUMNI 
BANQUET AT FORT PITI
I Alumnus Sends Interesting 
Letter to Tartan Editor
Again we call your attention to the 
third annual banquet to be held In the 
Engl lull room of the Fort Pitt Hotel 
Saturday noon, May,27. There will 
bo place for only lx hundred 
and we know that unleaH your reervatlon are In early you tand a good 
chance of not being taken care of. 
For tho alumni till 1 the big event 
of the three day. The program which 
ha been arranged 1 trlctly a Tech 
affair. The graduating cla will be 
entertained a our guet and till 
will bo a time when you can become 
acquainted with. Toch men and women 
who will tTTh bo ready to go out into 
tho world to repreent our Alma Ma
ter. Card have been sent out giving 
Information regarding till  banquet 
and we urge that you 1111 out and re
turn to tin* Alumni OiJlee a oon a 
possible. Do not forget the time and 
try to arrange your work.so that you 
may be present.
HARRYS
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Bunt Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in tho 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Advertisement.
VACATION OPPORTUNITY 
We want a few live men over 24 
for Summer Work, presenting to 
Teachers and School Boards new Edu
cational Publication, approved by 
Pennsylvania State Department of 
Education. Accepted applicants train
ed and financed. See
QUARRIE & COMPANY 
Lyceum Building 'Pittsburgh
^Everything for
QUALITY
nothing for show
T
HATS OUR IDEA in making CAMELSQuality Cigarette.
the
Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! Its 
the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes 
fresh and full flavored for your taste. Heavy paper out
sidesecure foil wrapping inside and the revenue stamp 
over the end to seal the package and keep it air-tight.
And note this! Theres nothing flashy about the Camel 
package. No extra wrappings that do not improve the 
smoke. Not a cent of needless expense that must come 
out of the quality of the tobacco.
Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on merit 
alone.
Because, men smoke Camels who want the taste and 
fragrance of the. finest tobaccos, expertly blended. Men 
smoke Camels for Camels smooth, refreshing mildness 
and their freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.
Camels are made for men who think for themselves.
Camel
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winaton-Salem, N. C.J
Some time ago the Shilling taff 
took offense because one of the publlHher Htole a two-line squib from 
them and neglected to give the neces
sary credit. Now the Tartan staff 
severely condemns tho ungentlemanly 
conduct of the other publication, but 
at the Baine time the Tartan Btands 
for a progressive order of things and 
is anxious to incorporate new features 
in its make up. We notice that the 
Shilling printed a letter from one of 
the M. M. graduates ,and feeling that 
a letter from a Science graduate 
would be of equal interest we here
with print It:
"County Jail, Padunlc. 
"Dear Tartan Editor:
"The judge of this bush league 
dump lias just handed me thirty days 
on the rock pile. He did say that if 
I could raise 10 pieces of eight in the 
next week 1 could maybe get out a 
little sooner. Therefore I am,writing 
my autobiography. Will you please 
have it bound in half tones and offer 
It to the Shilling Editor. In case she 
wont risk a case note on it, you 
might print It yourself.
"When 1 got kicked out of Tech I 
thought T knew my Bluff. It's a shame 
the way they educate you these days. 
Why, I even thought 52 cards made 
up a deck. The first game I sat in 
cost me four bucksthe other guy 
had four more aces than I did, and I 
had three.
I got a job writing heads for the 
Homer Smith ads. The boss asked 
me one day: Say, sez he, In Amer
ican Girl, is Girl Capital? Hell, no,' 
sez I, shes dead loss. But I quit 
that job because my roommate 
wouldn't wash his feet.
"My happiest experience was when 
I was selling marriage licenses to 
Peggy Joyce. The boss asked me 
whether I had any experience in sell
ing. It was the big moment in my 
life; I hestitated whether Id tell him 
of the time I sold 50 Shillings to the 
rag man foV a nickel, but I didnt tell 
him, and 1 got the job.
M.y private jailer is coming to 
lock me up - so I must close. Best 
wishes to the staff.
IGNATZ WIZZLEBEAK.
Mardi Gras Queen 
------VOTE NOW------
Dont Save Your Votes.
NEW YORK CLAN NEWS
The regular monthly dinner and 
meeting of the New York Clan will 
be held at the Cafe Boulevard, Fortyiirst street, just east of Broadway, 
Tuesday evening, May 23. A delight
ful dinner, good music and dancing 
are promised. Campus Week trips 
will he discussed.
Alumni visiting New York City at 
that time are asked to attend.
M. M. C. C. Alumnae News
CAMPUS WEEK PLANS
STUDENT COUNCIL WILL
ACCEPT DEGREE RING
(Contlnue.d From Page One.) 
Stringers.
Tecknon.
Y. M. C. A.
Y. W. C. A.
Sectional Clubs:
Buckeye Club.
Mid-Western Association.
Scalp and Blade.
Professional Fraternities:
Alpha Kappa Epsilon.
Scarab.
Theta Tau,
Junior Branch National Societies:
A. S. C. E.
A. A. E.
A. I. E. E.
S. I. E.
Honorary Fraternities:
Tau Beta Pi.
Alpha Tan.
Tau Sigma Delta,
Dragon,
Delta Skull.
Druid.
Sphinx.
Alpha Alpha Nil.
Departmental Clubs:
Science
Commercial Club.
C. M. E. S.
Metallurgical and Mining So
ciety.
Coal Miners.
Chemists.
Industry
G raph lea.
Sine Nomine.
M. M.
Household Economics Club.
Secretarial Club.
Science Club.
Costume Economics Club.
Social Work Club.
The following clu!bs were refused 
recognition:
Emipire State Club.
C. G. S.
B. T. U.
The committee also made the fol
lowing recommendation: That depart
mental clubs, professional fraterni
ties, Jr. branches of national socie
ties and honorary fraternities hold no 
evening dances! on the campus ex
cept for their own. members (with 
the exception of the Inter-Honorary 
Dance); that sectional clubs and 
Four Schools organiations be lim
ited to one dance a year, the tea 
dances be held only upon petition 
to the Student Council Dance Com
mittee; that honorary societies only 
be permitted to iparticipate in Call 
Day (this excludes Scarab); that of 
the icsniipus organizations only profes* 
l-ponal fraternities, Jr. branches of 
national societies and honorary fra
ternities be allowed ito have their 
pictures in the Thistle.
The Ring Committee, Skitch Hen
derson, chairman, reported that the 
degree ring had been accepted by 
tho Alumni FedoraMon, tho Ejecu
tivo Council, the Ring Committee 
and the Student Council. Plans are 
now being made lo got the rings to 
those oligible.
Mills was appointed to coiwpilo a 
budget: for the different School Sen
ates. This1 budget is to be taken 
Prom) tho part of the Student Activi
ties fee apportioned to the Student 
Council.
Use Tartan Ballot and vote for 
Queen.
The tradition that seniors carry canes 
.isibcoming more widespread. Seniors 
at Wisconsin, Oklahoma, Notre Dame 
and Indiana have added their sup
port. i
/
There are several events in the 
Campus Week program that will be of 
special interest to Margaret' Morri
son alumnae. Thursday, May 25th 
at 7:30 P. M. there will be an open 
air concert followed by dancing in 
the various buildings. Everybody 
will want to attend the Mardi Gras 
on Friday evening at 8:30 oclock. At 
noon on Saturday the general aulmmni will have luncheon in the Fort 
Pitt Hotel. By having a luncheon 
instead of the usual banquet, the alu
mni will be able to attend the events 
scheduled for that evening and be 
taxed only about half the' .cost of a 
banquet.
This year an entirely new feature 
has been added to the program, a 
"get together dinner for the women 
of all schools, both students and 
alumnae. The students themselves 
have planned this as a means of get
ting acquainted with the alumnae and 
it is hoped the alumnae will show 
their approval by turning out in large 
numbers. The dinner will be serv
ed in the Margaret Morrison Lunch 
Room at 6:00 P. M. on Saturday, and 
will cost you $1.50 if you are wearing 
a Campus Weelc tag, if not, $1.75. 
There will be music and stunts and a 
general sing fest. Mrs. J. O. Mil
ler will speak. Make your plans now 
to attend this event. Lets all get 
together and show the students what 
a friendly bunch we are. Ticket3 
ca.n be obtained through your Class 
Representative.
PICNIC SUPPER
Owing to the large number of in
teresting features that are crowded 
into the Campus Week Program, it 
has been decided to postportp the pic
nic supper until a later date. Recall
ing tile good time we had last year, 
we were sure no one would want to 
rush away and yet no one wonkl care, 
to miss any of the good things on 
the regular schedule. A date will be 
announced later when we will have 
time to visit with each other and de
vour those delicious sandwiches to 
the last crumb.
RE-UNIONS
Several re-unions^liave been plan
ned for Campus Week by Margaret 
Morrison classes. The Class of 12 
will hold their tenth re-union at a 
luncheon provided by the school ac
cording to the precedent established 
by the memorable 09 re-union three 
years ago. Tho Class of '16 has al
ready had a preliminary gathering 
and will have Its fifth re-union at a 
luncheon during Campus Week, pos
sibly at the school on the same day 
as '12. The Class of 18 has just had 
a party, and it is understood that '21 
Is making plans.
'18 RE-UNES!
Tho re-union of the Class of 18 
took the form of a tea at McCreerys 
on May G. Those present were Lorine Friedman, Helen Bosworth Orr, 
Helen Clark, Gertrude Morgan Hays, 
Ruby Austen, Callie Hunter Brown, 
Florence Bechtel, Lucille Wakefield, 
and Rachel Beatty. A letter from 
Grace Rupert who is teaching in a 
college for girls in China was read 
and enjoyed ;bjr all.
ALUMNAE HEADQUARTERS
It is hoped to have a booth on the 
camipus ito serve the double. purpose 
of headquarters for M. M. alumnae 
and a means of extracting shekels 
from unsuspecting visitors to swell 
our general fund. Be sure to look 
for it and register there so your 
friends can hunt you up.
SWEEPSTAKE COURSE IS
UNDER CONSTRUCTION
(Continued From Page One.) 
turns will ibe suppied by the Faculty 
Dancing Club.
Thats the track; and the machines 
well, were respecting Mr. Hedlunds confidence, and though w 
crave to describe them, we sliant. 
Sufficient to say that all the boys are 
working overtime. Clothes lines are 
disappearing, tin cans are being 
gathered up, and various sundry 
noises are being heard nightly in the 
frat-house cellars'.
Tho officials have been hired, the 
judgos are ready, the drivers are train
ing and betting is already on a firm 
foundation. Take our tip, and dont 
miss this.
Mardi Gras Queen 
-VOTE NOWDont Save Your Votes. 
Who will be Queen?
ARE YOU COMING 
FOR CAMPUS WEEK
Meet Your Old College Chums 
Join the Celebration
May 25, 2G and 27 is only one week 
off when Carnegie Tech alumni, 
friends and students will celebrate 
the third annual Campus Week. 
Everything is in readiness and the 
committe is preparing for the greatest 
event ever held. After reading the 
program of the three big days I am 
sure that you will make every effort 
to be present. Remember the open
ing event is 10:30 a. m. in the Car
negie Music Hall, at which time the 
vaudeville show will be held. The 
outstanding events of the celebration 
will be the fraternity sweepstakes, 
Mardi Gras, alumni banquet and the 
show in the Sclienley theater. Re
member class reunions will be held 
and this will be an opportune time 
for you to again get in touch with 
your college chums. According to the 
Dix plan the classes of 12, 17 and 20 
will hold their reunion. You have 
only about five days to decide to 
come. This is the one time of tiie 
year that you should try to visit your 
Alma Mater and help make this cele
bration a real Carnegie Tech success. 
We are counting on you. Dont fail 
us.
A telegram has just been received 
announcing that Will Hays, former 
postmaster general, now head of the 
movie industry, will be with us on 
Friday of Campus Week.
MISS OLEARY
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
{ Ladies and Mens Clothes.
1 Call Schenley 389.
j 3933 FORBES STREET
NOMINATIONS FOR NEW
SCHOOL OFFICERS
(Continued From Page One.? 
ARTS
Arts Student Body. 
President.
Patterson, Franklin, Snyder, Vin
cent, Hertz.
Secretary.
Barney, Patterson, Harris, Lake.
Treasurer.
Brink, Gross.
Historian.
Lazarus.
Tyler.
Thayer, Mills, Weiner,. Laughrey.
.Student Activities Board.
Roy, Brace.
Athletic Council.
Kreisle, Keil, Newman..
Nominations 'for Senior Class offi
cers.
President 
A. S. Vincent, John Hallam, Cliff 
Lake. ,
Vice President.
Miss Burrows, Miss Harmon.
Secretary.
H. C. Douden, Wilson, W. C. Pyle.
Treasurer.
E. 0/ Anderson, George Brink, 
Rody Pattenson, John S. Wood. 
Senate Rep.
Rathman, Brink, John Williard, 
Emil W, Klee, Ross Hertz.
Nominations for Junior Class offi
cers:
President
Brace, Walter Dieter, Edwin Couse, 
Teasdale Bamey.
Secretary.
Pauline Kurtz, Gretchin Hoffman, 
Elise Burkhart.
Treasurer.
Earl Gross, Will Aliearn, Joseph 
Frasclie, Walter Dieter.
Senate Rep.
Les Cousins, Ducky Allen, Brace, 
Vince Roy.
Historian.
Helen Johnson.
Thistle Board.
Vince Roy, Kelvin OCallahan, A. 
B. Lowstutter, Earl Grass, James 
Lanagan.
Nominations for Sophomore Class 
officers:
President.
Ed. Miller, V. Mollenauer, Joe 
Laughrey, Phil Thorn, D. Olsen, Al
bert Wagner, Wayne Kappes.
Secretary.
Elizabeth Constantine, Eva Spen
cer, Elizabeth, Sowerby, L. Osborne:
Treasurer.
J. R. Reed, H. Thayer^ S. Blackmore, S. Wilson, John Douglass.
Historian,
Mary Brown, Paul Bower, Phil 
Thom.
Thistle Board.
P. Bowers, J. R. Reed, G. Allisbn, 
Jim Schucker, D. Olsen, R. Kredal.
Arts Senate Rep.
Harding Thayer, A. Wagner, P. H. 
Sload.
ARCH. STAFF INCREASED
(Continued From Page One.) 
instructor in the Rice Institute, Hous
ton, Texas, and also taught architect
ure in the University of Pennsylvania.
In 1919 he was given the Roman 
Prize Fellowship by the American 
Academy of Rome, and for the last 
three years he has been in Rome 
studying at the Academy. His studies 
have been chiefly that of Italian arch
itecture in Its relation to Colonial. 
Important work done by Mr. Chillman 
lias been a large amount of research 
ami restoration work on Hadrians vil
la, in Tivoli, one of the architectural 
wonders of the world.
Mr. Chillmans appointment is ex
pected to greatly strengthen the De
partment of Architecture at Carnegie, 
because of his unusual experience and 
qualifications.
ALUMNI RESERVATION
------for seats at------
RENNYS PLACE 
May be secured by mail.
Address J. FRANKLIN, C. I. T. %
I SKI BO * INN "I
; Remodeled and % 
 Enlarged .{)
| CLEAN, 
:< WHOLESOME 
 FOOD
I Served at best prices * 
CIGARS CANDY I
Character Building
Early association 
with a strong bank
ing institution will 
not only inculcate 
thrift, but the kindly 
advice of its experi
enced officers will as
sist you materially.
We welcome the ac
counts of sincere men 
and women.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts Wcdh, Pa.
Dancing
Every Saturday, 9 P. M. 
THE 
RITTENHOUSE
! Giles.   Couple, $2.20.
Direction 
The Sextons
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits -...............$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh. 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. S P. M.
Sunday School................11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ...........................8 to 9
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
BELLEFIEL.D 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH ' 
The Church of Friendly People 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School............ 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service..........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service............8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here,
r-.XM.. i
P.M. i elve
;____I
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
WRIGLEYS
NewestCreation
vored chewing gum with Peppermint Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket melts in your mouth, leaving the deliciously J flavored gum center to aid digestion, brighten teeth and soothe mouth an A throat.
VoteF
5<fc
roTheFQ\/
