SOPH GIRLS' BANQUET 
HOTEL SCHENLEY
MARCH 146:30 P. M.|arnigtE ft tan
SCIENCE STAG
MARCH 14
UNION7:30 P. M.
VOL. XIX No. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1925
TARTANS BREAK 
EVEN IN FINAL 
GAMES OF YEAR
. Grove City Wins First 43-24, 
While Westminster is 
Beaten 36-33
EVERY MEMBER 
OF TEAM STARS 
Plaid Has Won Eight Games 
and Lost Eight During 
Present Season
The Tartan basket ball team 
brought to a close a very successful 
season by winning from Westminster 
Saturday by a score of 36-33. The 
night before Grove City won a harder 
fought battle than the score of 43-24 
indicates. Both of these games were 
played on foreign floors by the Skibos.
The Crimson pla.yed without Sweet, 
supposedly their star center, but Fay, 
a veritable giant, more than made 
good in the absence of the former. 
Fay invariably got the tip-off, a big 
asset at any time, and his all-around 
play was remarkable. During the 
first few minutes of play the score 
was very close, but the home team 
forged ahead in th second quarter 
and led from then on. The score at 
half time was 18-9.
The Tartans complained throughout 
the game that Grove City was holding, 
but the referee did not seem to no
tice that infraction of the rules. It 
was a rough encounter, with the odds 
against the smaller Skibos.
The game against Westminster was 
entirely different. The home team 
had heard of the prowess of Amans 
and Donohoe, so they decidd that 
everything would be Jake" if these 
two men were closely guarded. The 
scheme was theoretically sound, but 
it did not work out, for Beede and 
Conrad took .advantage of their oppor
tunities and upheld the Tartans in a 
scoring way. The count at half time 
was 15-14, favor of Westminster, but 
the Tartans forged ahead early in the 
second half and kept the lead, though 
only by a small margin.
The results of tnese games made it 
an even 'break for the Skibos for the 
season. Eight games were won and 
eight lost. Seven. of the victories 
were garnered during the second se
mester.
JointAssemblyMar.17 
In Science At 11:30
Orchestra and Movie Will 
Provide Entertainment
Next Tuesday, March 17, the second 
of these joint assemblies will be 
held, in Science School at 11:30. The 
committee in charge of the arrange
ments consists of A. S.. Andrews, J. 
M. Goss, W. B. Goodby and another 
students from Industries; J.. Harris, 
J. Slye, J. Raddin, L. Flowers and I. 
N. Cowan from Science. For enter
tainment a popular campus orchestra 
has been secured to play and a tworeel movie will be shown. The joint 
assembly idea seems to meet with the 
approval of the students in the two 
schools concerned and will probably 
become a permanent institution.
The joint assembly held in Science 
last Tuesday was very successful. 
Although the idea is rather new, the 
attendance of upperclassmen was ex
cellent. The program was a pleasant 
and entertaining one. The features 
were several clever skits presented 
by Esther Leich, Betty McFadden and 
Durbin Horner, Drama Plebes, and the 
cheering session led by A1 Minetti. 
It seemed to be the general consensus 
of opinion that this new arrangement 
will remedy the defects of the old 
assembly system.
Combined Musical Clubs Home CALIF0RNIAjNS!^ommons anc* Grillroom Will
Concert at Carnegie Music Hall PLAY FOR Close During General Assemblies
Attractive posters are now gracing 
the campus bulletin boards, announ
cing the annual Home Concert of 
the combined Carnegie Musical 
Clubs, on Friday evening, March 27, 
at Carnegie Music Hall from eight to 
ten oclock. After the concert a 
wonderful dance will be held in the 
Ballroom of the nearby Schenley Ho
tel, which will last until two. bells 
in the morning. It looks like the 
biggest evening of the year.
The caption of combined Musical 
Clubs, includes the greatest variety 
of high class collegiate entertain
ment ever to be given in the his
tory of Pittsburgh under one roof in 
the span of two hours. The Girls 
Glee Club, The Stringers, The Mens 
Glee Club, and the Instrumental 
Club will be on deck with the best 
program that has been presented In 
years. Classical numbers will be -in
termixed with lighter music so as to 
round out an evening that will please 
everyone.
In addition, there will be a host 
of special features in the form of 
short snappy interludes. The Colle
giate Imps, with a twelve piece or
chestra, will be there to serve up 
the latest in popular airs. Assist- | 
ing them will be the best character 
songster the town has ever known, 
our own Obie Newman. , A Russian 
Dance by the talented Warren Kim- j 
ball, a Sax Four, an Alumnae Quar- \ 
tet, and various other special num.- j 
bers will lend, a zest that Carnegie 
will remember for many a moon.
The dance at the Schenley imme
diately  following the concer t pro
mises to be one of the best of the 
season. The augmented Collegiate 
Imps provide , music that can not be 
surpassed. They provided the best 
music that can be produced at the 
Arts Ball last year, when they en
raptured the crowd with their irre
sistible melodies. Their augmented 
(Continued on Page Two.)
GREEKS FRIDAY
Eleven Famed Jazz Artists 
Will Syncopate From 
Nine Until Two
WANDERING GREEKS 
INVITED TO ATTEND
TICKET SALE OPEN 
FOR SENIOR BALL
Extensive and Elaborate 
Decorations Planned by 
Committee
R.R. YOUNG TREASURER
Since the announcement of the 
price for the Senior Ball and the lo
cation thereof, the Committee has 
heard much comment circulating 
about the Campus. S'ome say tlie 
price is too much for the Union; oth
ers say the Union is no place for the 
Senior Ball; still others say there 
will be no formality about the dance 
and so on, ad infinitum.
In answer to this, L. H. Harris, III, 
the Chairman, stated that he hopes 
that those who feel that way about 
it will come around to see him be
tween today and next Tuesday. He 
said the Committee has done every
thing in the way of planning that can 
be done without the support of the 
iSeniors, and acknowledged that the 
mix-up in dates accounts for t.iie lack 
of attendance at the Class Meeting. 
He further stated that at present he 
can give a definite statement as to 
the costs of the Ball, and is prepared 
to show figures to anyone who may 
doubt that the affair is cheap at $3.50.
Although last' year (someone says) 
the Ball cost $3.00, and was held off 
the Campus with an orchestra equal 
to Paul Whiteman, and all that, the 
Committee cannot see how it was 
done. A free ticket will be given to 
the person who will divulge the sec
ret-! A bid for the decorations was 
received last week and the. Palms 
alone will cost $150. $50 for pro
grams, and the cost of the orchestra, 
the supper, the drapes., the lights, the 
tickets, the Union, and other inciden
tals, makes $3.50 times 100 look very 
small.
The Committee elected R. R. 
Young to serve as Treasurer. He an
nounced that the tickets will be on 
sale at the General Assembly today, 
and that there would be no prelimi
nary ticket sale. The representative 
body of the Senior Class will be at 
the Assembly, and the Committee 
feels that they will support the dance. 
The others can procure their tickets 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Lois Snyder, M. M. Senior, 
Is Called By Pi Sigma Tau
STUDENT DIRECTORIES STILL
AVAILABLE AT BOOK STORE
A student directory containing the 
names, addresses, telephone numbers, 
course and other information about 
every student attending day school 
the first semester is on sale in the 
book store. New students  will find 
the directory useful in becoming ac
quainted on the campus.
Pi Sigma Tau, the womens honor
ary society, made their annual call 
during the past week and selected but 
one individual at that time. Lois P. 
Snyder, a senior in the Household 
Economics department of Margaret 
Morrison College, as the person so 
honored. The society is composed of 
members of The Tartan, T'ne Puppet, 
The Song Book, and The Shilling 
staffs, who gain distinction in some 
branch of their work. Miss Snyder is 
a member of The Tartan; Puppet, and 
Song Book staffs, and in addition to 
these activities, is engaged in many 
class affairs and athletics.
Just recently, Miss Snyder was 
awarded the annual scholarship given 
by the Pittsburgh Female College 
Alumnae Association. . This scholar
ship is awarded to the girl who ranks 
(Continued on Page Two)
PLEBES TO PARADE 
ON ALL FOOLS DAY
Chance For Ingenious Frosh 
to be Released From 
Regulations
DATE SET IS MARCH 31
Carnegie is again assured of an Kll 
Fools Day celebration, the climax of 
the spring fever epidemic so common 
to first year classes. A. S. Andrews 
has been appointed chairman to 
draw up plans for this costumed re
view on March 31, of the freshmen 
in all their originality.
This parade has long been an hon
ored event iu the traditions of the 
school, and tho incentive is exemp
tion from regulations. It has been 
a leading occurrence of spring acti
vities, a relief from the monotony 
felt as the open season for romance 
nears. Fostered by the plebe class 
the review benefits them, alone, awak
ens fellowship, encourages ingenu
ity, and provides an outlet for the 
restlessness that comes with April 
days. 
And thus it lias been decreed that 
the first of April shall not pass un
noticed by those it is supposed to 
honor. Whether or not- the down
trodden freshie is to continue to 
grow weary under the long period 
of regulations, depends tipon his abil
ity to prepare an original and humor
ous style of dress for that day of 
laughs, frequent and hearty.
The exemptions have been ratioed 
according to the number of frosh as
signed to the different divisional as
semblies. Seven will be selected In 
Margaret Morrison, eight fortunate 
ones will be chosen in Industries, six 
first year students in Science school 
(Continued on Page Two.)
SHILLING SHORT STORY 
CONTEST CLOSES TODAY
Trombone, Violin and Banjo 
Players to be Featured 
as Sidelights
The anuuab Greek party, specifically 
known as the Interfraternity Formal, 
will take over the Schenley Ballroom 
next Friday night, and proceed to 
make a real evening of it. Dancing 
will commence at 9 sharp and con
tinue until the clock chimes two. A 
better Formal than ever is expected 
because of the ideal dateFriday, tho 
thirteenth.
The 'Californians are all primed 
to syncopate melodies in their own 
renowned style. Russ Morgan, Amer
icas greatest trombonist, is a mem
ber of tkis famous orchestra, arid will 
provide an interesting side-light. He 
was formerly in Paul Spechts origi
nal orchestra, and for a time directed 
Spechts Georgians. Ed Gilligan, 
leader and violinist, and Will Lloyd 
on the banjo are also featured play
ers. There will be eleven pieces in 
all, and my how they can manufac
ture the tantalizing blues!
These jazz artists from the Golden 
Gate territory are being featured this 
week in Clevelands new million dol
lar ballroom, The Euclid Gardens. Be
cause of their previous contract with 
the committee for. the dance, they are 
making a special , trip to Pittsburgh 
for the one night. It was fortunate 
that they were signed up early, for 
they have been a sensation on tho 
Keith Vaudeville Circuit, and at tho 
Arcadia Ballroom in New York Clly.
Tickets for the party have been al
lotted to the fratornities on the cam
pus on a pro rata basis, for thoro will 
only be accommodations for a crowd 
of two hundred couples. Any wanderlug Greeks, desiring to attend, etui SOP 
cure their tickets from Paul Bowron 
at the Beta Thota Pi house.
In their attempt to get better at
tendance at General Assemblies, the 
Student Council has ordered the clos
ing of the student club rooms, tho 
Grill. Carnegie Inn, the Commons, 
and the Hut Library during Assembly 
hours11:30 to 12:30 every Tuesday.
At general assembly this morning 
Brigadier General Lord Thomson, 
Secretary of State Tor Air in llamsey 
McDonalds Labor Cabinet, is to be 
chief speaker. Lord Thomson, whose 
ancestors were prominent In military 
affairs, has himself an unusual back
ground of active military service. He 
has given noteworthy service in the 
Boer War, the Balkan Wars, the 
Great War, and the Palestine cam
paign. At the close of the Great War 
he had attained the position of Bri
tish Military Representative in the 
Supreme War Council at Versailles. 
In 15119 he retired from the army 
with the rank of Brigadier General. 
He then became interested in poli
tics, and was chosen Secretary of
State for Air in tho first Labor HOGIPP 
ernment, which position lie now 
holds.
An opportunity to hear the mossage of so eminent a British states
man comos to but few, and it- is ex
pected that Carnegie will turn out en 
masse, especially since the assembly 
is to be held iu the Union.
Some novel entertainment, too, has 
been planned for the occasion. There 
will be selections by two Cilee Clubs, 
directed by A1 Johnson. Those clubs 
aro tho ones which have been scor
ing such hits in the trips they have 
been making to various places out
side of Pittsburgh. They appeared 
at the new Schenley. week before 
last in a most successful per
formance.
Herb Palesie, too, has a treat in 
store in the form of a. stunt which 
has been composed, directed, and is 
to be executed by him. It is a mini
ature review of campus life showing 
Continued on Page Two.)
TRI-PUBLICATIONS 
STAFF ORGANIZED
To Elect Most Active 
Senior at Ind. Smoker
Page in Thistle For Winner; 
Movie Comedy to tjfi Shown
Judges Now Selecting Winners in
Senior Womens Beauty Contest
Three eminent judges of feminine 
beauty are at present selecting the 
fairest of the fair of the bonnie Scots 
of Carnegie. All the girls on the 
campus are anxiously awaiting the re
turns, especially the Senior women, 
as the selections will have a great 
bearing in the election of Campus 
Week Queen.
The men are also up in the air 
over the affair, for they vote in the 
election for the Queen, and wish to 
have some guide^before casting their 
ballots. The boys all feel the great 
importance of the election, and wish 
to bestow their votes on the girl with 
the highest qualifications.
Kline Fulmer of the Thistle board, 
who is in charge of the contest, ex
pects to hear from the judges in about 
two weeks, and in the meantime there 
will be many speculations as to the
choices of Tony Sarg, Coles Phillips 
and Charles Dana Gibson, in the b.eauty contest of 1925.
FORMER WEST POINT MAN TO 
SPEAK AT BHARAT MEETING
The Bharat Association, organized 
by the Hindu students in Pittsburgh, 
will hold a meeting on Saturday, 
March 14, at 8 p. m. in room 118-B 
Industries building.
Major James G. Taylor, professor 
of military Science at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, will speak on 
War and Civilization. Those stu
dents of Carnegie who take the R. O. 
T. C. course need no further recom
mendation of the speaker. Major 
Taylor was formerly with the West 
Point Military Academy, and later saw 
active service durlDg the World war.
Today marks the close of the first 
short story prize contest conducted 
by the Shilling, and from all indica
tions it has been distinctly successful. 
Many students in Arts School have 
become interested in their old endeav
ors, and have polished up former lit
erary efforts for entrance in the com
petition. Students in Margaret Mor
rison, particularly those specializing 
in English Minor, have turned their 
attention to producing short i stories, 
and many a manuscript has found its 
way to the Shilling desk from this 
source. Tomorrow the stories will be , 
turned over to the judges, and for two | 
weeks many anxious persons will be j 
wondering who got the prize?
The Shilling will make its third ap
pearance for this year on Monday, 
March 30th, and will be on sale in 
Margaret Morrison, Arts School, Cen
tral Building and on the campus. An 
explosion of discussion and argument 
is expected, for the Shilling announces 
with pleasure a reply to the e^say in 
the last issue, Is It Broadminded
ness? written by a woman of clear 
thought and great experience in col
lege life. This article is the result of 
honest thought and observation back
ed by study of former conditions, and 
we promise a rousing article to all 
students who are interested in a study 
of the conditions in the environment 
immediately affecting them.
Poems, editorials, a new and dis
tinctive cover, stories, all these orig
inal and interesting, are in store for 
Carnegie students. The Shilling di
rectly reflects the live thought of its 
own students. The more articles sub
mitted by the students, the merrier 
will be each issue.
REHEARSALS OF BAND NOW
ON SUNDAY AFTERNOONS
The Industries smoker to be hold in 
tho Union on tho ovenlng of March 28 
will mark as one of Its features tho 
second annual election of tho most 
popular Senior in Industries. Bal
lots will be passed out to all present, 
and the vote will bo counted and re
sults announced dijring the ovenlng.
This election is becoming a Car
negie tradition, and tho balloting doserves the serious consideration of 
each student. A page in the Thistle 
will be devoted to this election. Last 
year Cy Comfort, one of the most ac
tive men ever graduated from tho 
school, won the honor.
Movies, probably a high class com
edy, have now been assured as part 
of the entertainment. The stunt com
mittees of the various departments 
report that several good burlesques 
will result in keen competition for the 
stunt contest loving cup offered by 
Alpha Tau, honorary fraternity. The 
Building Constructionists seem espec
ially enthusiastic, and hint that The 
Follies of 1925 will be a real stumb
ling block in the path of the other 
contestants for the cup. It is still 
hoped, and is very likely, that the fac
ulty will enter a stunt team. That 
should induce a large attendance at 
the affair. Plenty of smokes and 
plenty of eats will be a further induce
ment.
A ticket sale will be held in the 
next several weeks. Watch the bul
letin boards and the Tartan for fur
ther information.
To Control Song Book, Stu
dent Directory and Hand 
Book For Coming Year
A. E. KROGH CHAIRMAN
The Carnegie Song Book Staff has 
been re-organized to include tho 
Song Book, the Student Directory and 
the Student Hand-book. Tho name 
of the now organization is tho TriPublications Staff. The staff, under 
the new arrangement consists of A.
E. Krogh, 25, Editor; A. S. Andrews, 
20, Advisory Editor; F. D. Rossini, 
25, Buslnoss Manager; EBtollo Gari
baldi, 2(>, Managing Editor; and As
sociate Editors aro V. B. Smith, and 
Margaret McFall. Tho chief advan
tage'of this ,re-organization Is that 
the three publications are efficiently 
consolidated.
Tho staff has assumed the respon
sibility for these publications next 
yoar. V. B. S'mlth has boon clioson 
as oditor-in-chiof of tho Student, 
Hand-book and is to direct the work 
of tho staff this spring. Plans aro 
now being made for a now Student 
Directory which Is oxpoctod to bo 
better .arrangod than tho first Issue. 
Moreover it Is to cost less and will 
in general profit by tho experience 
gained by tho editors or tho first IsRLO' At prosont a supplement to tho 
'Song Book Is being planned, and a 
prize is to bo awarded today at tho 
General Assembly for tho bout Car
negie march. The prlzo Is a merely 
nominal ono of fivo dollars but tho 
honor attachod will moro than com
pensate tho successful composor.
The arrangement which was Inaug
urated this year, by which tho stunt 
at the football games woro In charge 
(Continued on Pago Two,)
DOT DIAMOND TO 
SUCCEED M.SPEERS
Arts Senior Will Assume 
Charge of Girls Campus 
Week Events
IMPORTANT POSITION
WEEMS PLAYS FOR HUGE 
CROWD AT SOPH HOP
Mary Speers, because of press of 
school work, has been forced to re
sign from her position as chairman of 
the Girls Events for Campus Week, 
and Dorothy Diamond has boon ap
pointed in her place. Both of tho 
young women lrnvo proveu capable 
managers In othor activities, and it is 
expectod that Miss Diamond will have 
no difficulty In continuing the work 
that Miss Spoors has bogtin.
The position of chairman of tho 
Girls Events Is second in importance 
only to that of tho general chairman. 
A great part of the success of Campus 
Week depends upon the manner In 
which tho womens ovonts are con
ducted, and a lot of work and worry 
1 involved Jn tho preparation for 
them,
Dorothy Diamond Is a Senior in the 
College of Fine Arts and a member 
of Mortar Board. Sho was vice pres
ident of her class last yoar and a 
member, of tho Coronation Committee 
lor Campus Woolc,
Mary Speers Is a Soulor In Margaret j 
Morrison. Sho was class prosidont In 
her Junior yoar and has been a mom-1 
her of tho AthlotlC Council, tho Girls! 
Junior Prom and Girls Swoopstakps I 
Commlttoos. During her Sophomore 1 
yoar sho was on tho Margaret Morri
son Sonnto.
AUTHOR OF THE PLASTIC
AGE TO LECTURE ON WED.
Music Department to 
Give Second Recital
The time of band rehearsals has 
been changed from Tuesday and I 
Thursday evenings to Sunday after
noon from 3 to 5:30 in Langley Labor
atory. David Garber, the manager, 
announces that any one failing to ap-1 
pear at these rehearsals will not 
make the Easter trip.
As this trip will be the first excur
sion of the band into eastern terri
tory, and as the kind of impression 
which they will leave on the minds 
of their audiences depends upon the 
work put in at these rehearsals, the 
manager cannot do otherwise than ex
clude those who fail to do their part.
The second of a series of Sunday 
night recitals by students of the 
Music Department will be given next 
Sunday, March 15, in the Arts Thea
ter, at 8:30 p. m. The following pro
gram has been selected.
1. Loeillett, Sonata in G major
for two violins and
piano 
Lento affettuoso 
Allegro agitato 
Largo sostenuto 
Allegro
Ida Waldron, Irr.elda RInkenbargor, 
Carolyn Gray
2. Brahms..Cradle Song of the Virgin
Eleanorc Steenson 
Viola obligato, Paul Kleye
3. Schumann. .Variations on the
name A-b-e-g-g, Opo. 1 
Reger..Three Silhouettes, Op. 53 
Carolyn Gray
4. Boellmann. .Sonata for 'cello
and piano, Op. 40 
Maestosoallegro con fuoco 
Andante 
Allegro melto 
Dorothy Trombley, Gertrude R. Dodds 
Accompanist.................Alice Nelson..
The music was marvelous; tho 
crowd was classy; tho entertainment 
was excellent, and the lights wore 
low; there was only ono troubleIt 
ended Loo soon. The above is a typi
cal comment on the Soph Hop, held 
in the William Penn ballroom last 
Friday night, when between five hun
dred and six hundred merry couples 
jostled elbows to Ted Weems' inspira
tional strains.
The real feature of the affair was 
undoubtedly Ted and Art Weems and 
their nine fellow toe ticklers. This 
orchestra certainly deserves the repu
tation it has earned through its Victor 
records, and its engagements throughj out the country. There is none of the 
I blatant jazz element in their playing, 
i It is real syncopationsoft, rythmic, 
soothing, harmonic.
The lighting created just the right  
atmosphere. Four large searchlights,
I each equipped with a disc of four 
I color screens, were played on the 
dancers. The effect was especially 
pleasing when the colored beams of 
light struck the huge crystal candelabras of the hall.
Obie and Eddie Newman and the 
| two pickaninnies from the Arts Ball 
I play, managed to keep the crowd In 
I good spirits during the Intermissions,
I though some would have preferred 
! shorter intermissions, and more danc
ing. Eddie Newman was especially 
well received in his rendition of "Dear 
Old Tech.
Very attractive souvenir programs, 
in imitation ivory covers bearing the 
Carnegie Tech seal and Soph Hop 
1925 in gold, were given out. It BR 
not known whether the novel plan 
j worked out by the committee to prevent the usual confusion In finding 
partners, as explained in tho program, 
was followed out by the dancers, but 
(Continued on Page Two.
Percy Marks, author of The Plastic 
Ago, the story of college life that 
creatod such a furore In literary and 
educational circles last yoar, will lec
ture at the Rodof Shalom Temple at 
Fifth and Moorowood avenues tomor
row ovonlug at 8:15 oclock. Students 
of Carnogle Tech aro cordially Invited 
to attend, and to bring any frionds 
who are interested. There is no ad
mission chargo.
Tau Sigma Delta Calls 
Two Senior 'Architects
REV. GALBREATH, BELLEVUE 
PA8TOR, AT CHAPEL, THUR8.
At the regular Thursday chapel 
I service In the Little Theater, Rev. 
j Robert Galbreath, pastor of the 
I Bellevue Presbyterian Church, will 
speak to the students. Rev. Gal
breath Is a new-comer to our chape)
I services, and it Is hoped that a large 
group will attend the service this 
week.
A musical number will be given by 
a member of the Music Department-.
 Tau Sigma Delta, the honorary 
fraternity In Architecture and allied 
Arts, has recently pledged two men, 
Herbert Walter Damon, and William
S. Harris, both seniors in the depart
ment of Architecture.
Gamma chapter, the local organiza
tion, usually chooses men in archi
tecture, painting, or decorating, the 
seniors at the end of the first semes
ter, and men from the Junior Class 
at the Call on qualification day. 
High scholarship, character and lead
ership are essential for membership 
in this fraternity.
Tau Sigma Delta is International 
in scope, having chapters at the lead
ing universities of England, and nine 
in this country.
SCENE SET FOR 
SCIENCE STAG 
THIS SATURDAY
Annual Frolic of Engineers 
is Slated to Begin at 7:30 
in the Onion
CUP COMPETITION 
FEATURES AFFAIR
Waddell and Prof. Dennison 
Among the Speakers on 
Varied Program
The ticket sale is on for the 
Science Stag to be held in tho Carnogie Union, Saturday night' at 7:30 
p. m., and all plans for the program 
havo been completed. Novel favors, 
unique programs, talented speakers, 
hilarious stunts, interesting movies, 
enticing music, refreshments, and 
smokos are a few of the many event 
which will make the annual Engi
neering frolic memorable.
The Union has been secured and 
the stage set for the. spirited compe
tition of the aspiring class play-. 
wiights and Thespians in the con
test for the silver trophy. Tho time 
has been designated as half-past 
seven, the end to come only when the 
largo and varied entertainment has 
been completed and the rejoicing 
studes have left convinced that the 
Science party is tlio best yet iu Car
negie entertainment.
The program is so complote as to 
have something every second with 
the intervening time to bo taken by 
a group of eight college music mak
ers. Tho curtain will rise on tho 
Plebe stunt and tho othor classoa 
will follow In order. During tho vari
ous intermissions Bob Waddoll, assis
tant football coach, and Profossor 
Dennison of tho Eloctrlcal onglnoorIng department will spoalc. Tho fac
ulty offorlng which has boon with
drawn from competition for tho cup, 
duo to charges of professionalism, 
will bo the last act on tho program.
Thoso acts will be followed hr 
movies of last years Campus Week, 
and. of tho football games played thtw 
fall. II, has boon decided not to show 
I ho picture of last year's All Fools* 
Day lost the Plobos, who aro oxpoc
tod to attend on masse, will dis
continued on Pago Two.)
Soph Girls to Feast 
At Schenley Mar. 14
Grace Glennon to be Toast - 
mistress at Banquet
Plans for tho annual Scrollomoro 
Women's DauriuoL aro now practically 
oomplotod, and it may be safely said* 
that it Is to bo an affair that ovory 
Sophomore girl will want to attend. 
Tho commltteo 1ms overlooked noth
ing and a yiiccqtiful banquet Is as
sured If the girls w111 turn out on 
masse. Tho price is lower than at 
first expected, being tho nominal sum 
of $3.00. This seems little enough 
considering the nature of tho repast 
and other items on the program.
In case some Sophomore girl in 
still in ignoranco of her own ban
quet. it is to be at the Hotel Schen
ley, March 14, at six-thirty in the 
evening and it will be oyer in plonty 
of time for a date'afterwards. Clraco 
Glennon, 'Sophomore vice- president 
in Arts is to be the toastmistress and 
Dean Brown and the class officers 
will be invited to speak. There is 
to be music by a trio of Arts grads 
and also some stunts aro planned.
The first S'ophomore Womens Ban
quet was held with great success 
last year and it is the ambition of 
27 to rival, even excel that grand 
affair. The banquet is one occasion 
when the girls of M. M. and Arts feel 
akin in class spirit and should be
come tradition for this reason alone. 
Trust the Sophomore giris Lo make 
their banquet a success. As they 
unite in searching out the delinquent 
Plebe, so will they unite in placing 
their class banquet in the history or 
the school.
Three Prominent Lecturers to
Appear Here Within Eight Days
Three series of public lectures of: 
special interest to scientists and en
gineers will be glen at Carnegie 
during the coming two weeks. Each 
of the three lecturers Is Internation
ally recognl'/.od as an authority .in 
his particular field of work.
Tho first of the series will bo 
given by Dr, James JJ\ Norris, prosl 
dent of the American Chemical So
ciety and professor of organic chom 
In try at Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, who will discuss the 
Reactivity of Atoms and Groups in 
Organic Compounds, in a series of 
two lectures, Monday and Tuesday 
evenings, March i) and 10.
On Thursday, Friday and Saturday 
nights March 12, 13 and 14, tho In
stitution will present Dr. Carl Bene
dicks, Director of the Metallography 
institute of Stockholm, iSweden, in a 
Series of three lectures of Interest 
to metallurgists. His subjects will,
be: Thursday, March. 12, On tho
Theory of High Speed. Steel; Fri
day, March 13, A Determination of 
the Specific Gravity of Moltn Iron; 
and Saturday, March 1-1, "Homogene
ous Thermo-electric and Homogen
eous Electro-thermic Effects."
Dr. K. K. Dar row of the Research 
Staff of tho Boll Telephone Labora 
lories In New York City will give the 
third sorios of lectures on Monday, 
Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, 
March 10, 17 and 18. The subject 
will bo on probicms and discoveries 
in physics.
Each of these three series will bo 
open to the public.
The Norris lectures are scheduled 
for the Carnegie Union, the Bene
dicks series will be presented in 
Room 104 of the College of Indus
tries, and announcement of the 
place of presentation of the Darrow 
lectures will bo made later. Each 
lecture will be given at 8 ; 30.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1925
 Carneie -fan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Postofflce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH................I..................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITOR8 
F. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROGII E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson_________R, R. Sltaler_________I). A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS..............  ......... ....................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ..........................................................................................Schenley 9070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547-.I
ALUMNI EDITOR
,J. M. GOSS................................................................................Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Loppor, M. Holllnshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. Ross, II. L. Myers, L. V. Twolilg, F. Finn,
F. A. Kolb, A. V. Nern, A. WIngolcl, L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Klmmol, R. M. Pew, F. O. Woods.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF .......................................................................................Schenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Da
vidson, B. Kristof, J. It. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON.........................................................................................Schenley 9211
N. C. WESER, AHHlstant........................................................................Schenley 122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE II. CARL.................................................................................Schenley 0303-M
CIRCULATION MANAGER
B. MOSKOVITZ ........................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauorle, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. Kandell, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Moore, It. L. Grlbble, Gladys Reynolds, W. A. Bernardi.________
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All news items must bo in the student 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.___________________________________________________
Tartan OillceRoom 12, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20._____________________________________________________________________________________
CONSIDERATION
One of the most outstanding characteristics of the college man of 
toclay is his lack of consideration for the commonplace civilities of 
life. Such a condition need occasion no alarm -were it not for the 
fact that it has becomc general just at tho time when the world at 
large had finally accepted the college man at his potential value: 
namely his ability to lead other men.
X^ublic sentiment regarding the college man has changed. Fifty 
years ago, tho college student was derided for his lack of real experi
ence. Today the big men are willing to overlook the lack of experi
ence and prefer the college man to others.
Twenty years ago, the college man was sneered at because of the 
exaggerated cut of his clothing. Now the question is passed over as 
a mere expression of youth.
These two objections to the college man were removed by edu
cating the business took within the outer casing and see the j>otential 
value of the man within.
Bui; this lack ol! consideration, manifest in so many of our stu
dents is more than a shell: it is burned deeply in the man. Some
how in the last ton years, our university students have drawn away 
from those ideals of conduct which older peoplo aro wont to associate 
with a collcgo man.
Peoplo may think of a studont, as drunk, and pity him: they ma}' 
think of as conceited, and smile: they may think of as carefree, and 
envy him: but they never think of him as lacking consideration. A 
college man is expected to bo a gentleman, regardless of what book 
learning ho has acquired. By gentleman, wo moan a gentleman at 
heart. Anyone, by masquerading behind courtoous words and ac
tions, neat clothes, carefully chosen words, can appear to be one. 
It is in the man himself that the quality lies, which distinguishes 
him from the boor, and tho one basic feeling which makes for a 
gontlpman, is consideration for tho feelings of othors.
Wo look to tho college man to furnish an oxamplo for less for
tunate men, and tho fact that his ineonsidoration is caused by a lack 
of though I; does not mitigate tho poor example ho sets. College stu
dents do not think or they would bo moro considerate. But looking 
at results, we must judge that tho college students of today is not as 
much of a gentleman as was the student of twenty years ago.
Well," says n student, what of it?
Yes, what ol! itV 1
THE INAUGURATION
hast Wednesday Calvin Ooolidge took anew the oath of olTieo as 
Presi don t oJ! tho United States*. To the average man that made very 
little difference. Perhaps lie was a bit thrilled to hear the ceremony 
over the radio, but as far as his daily routine is concerned, the fourth 
of March was very much like the third of the same month.
Tho peoplo who sponsored Ooolidge have maintained that tho 
reason for his inability to got anywhere was tho cabinet which was 
thrust upon, him from tho term of oillce ol! his prodeeessor. However 
that might be, ho is now no longer encumbered with that cabinet ex
cept such men as ho himself has chosen to retain and from now on he 
will bo expected to stand on his own. feet. We shall see if tho man 
of a few words is also a man of action.
The eyes of tho nations are upon him to learn his view on many 
things, bui; they are even more upon the reaction which the congress 
Jwill feel toward the chief. Not for a long time has a President 
started on a term of office with such possibilities before him. Let us 
hope that Mr. Ooolidge will make good. If he can keep the control 
of congress which the nation has given him, well and good. If he 
fails, lie will have disappointed his friends.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, MARCH 10
General Assembly......................................................11:30 A. M., Union
Pour One-Act Plays.......................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
"WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11
Pour Onc-Aet Plays.......................................8:30 P. 51., Little Theater
THURSDAY, MARCH 12
Chapel............................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
Pour One-Aet Plays.......................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 13
Inter-Fraternity Formal..............................9:00 P. M., Schenley Hotel
SATURDAY, MARCH 1-1
Sophomore Girls Banquet,...........................(i:30 P. M., Schenley Hotel
Scicnco Stag..............................................................7 :S0 P. M., Union
SUNDAY, MARCH 15
Music Recital.................................................8:80 P. M., Little Theator
THURSDAY, MARCH 1!)
Chapol...........................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 20
Senior Bull..................................................................!) :00 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, MARCH 21
M. M. Plebe Danco....................................................9 00 P. M., Union
THURSDAY, MARCH 26
Chnpel...........................................................12:50 P. M., Xiittlo Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 27
Home Concert......................................................8:00 P. M Music Hull
Dance..................... ...................................10:00 P. M., Schenley Hotel
SATURDAY, MARCH 28 
Industries Smolcer....................................................S:00 P. M., Union
arni gtaEi
WEEMS PLAYS FOR HUGE
CROWD AT SOPH HOP
(Continued From Page One.) 
the absence of confusion between 
dances was noticeable, and commend
able. On the whole, the dance was 
very orderly, despite the regrettable 
presence of a great number of outsid
ers.
This was the last of the elaborate 
four-school Soph Hops to be given by 
Carnegie, and though it is absurd to 
assert that it was the best ever given, 
it is quite certain that it will live for 
many years in the memories of those 
who attended, and be recalled as an 
evening of merry melodies, lovely la
dies and exceptional entertainment.
ANNE PEDDERSDOTTER
Here way social art, here was crea
tive understanding. The audience at 
the Arts Theater brought away from 
Anne PodderHdotter the Impression 
of a unified and powerful tragedy. 
Yet what they had seen was the worlc 
of three men having little In common 
except distinction of mind, and creallvonoss; tho author, the translator, 
and the producer. First, tho author. 
Jenson's art is essentially Scandina
vian; power, Infinity, rugged truth 
not softened by tho rare and reticent 
tenderness of certain passages, and 
withal a probably deliberate lack of 
finish in execution. Many characters 
are given only In outline, though the 
outlines are utterly true; many 
scenes aro underwritten, left to the 
audience to complete out of their own 
knowledge and imagination. All this 
is very Norse. Thus wrote Ibsen. 
Thus, centuries earlier, aro tho 13ddas; vast cosmic dramas, conflicting 
forces dimly outlined, intense with 
meaning; absurd to a literal person, 
infinitely challenging to a creative 
intelligence. Between such are and 
the inert mediocrity of tho American 
group mind (even such a group as 
foregathers in the Arts Theater, 
where we rather fancy we are the 
best of a bad lot) some mediation 
is necessary. So, for what we have 
received, Lord, make us truly grate
ful to John Masefield and to Hubert 
Osborne.
The theme of the play is t.wo-fold, 
forbidden love and witch burning. 
The threadbare situation of the girl 
wife falling in love with ligr stepson 
is lifted above the usual by the dig
nity, power and self respect' of Anne. 
She is tho daughter of a persecuted 
woman, inured to poverty and shame
ful innuendo. He^ young maiden-, 
hood lias been sacrificed to an old 
mans lust covered by the name of 
marriage. At twenty-three she has 
the courage and lucidity of intellect 
and unity of will which humanity at
tains oftonest among those who have 
stood alone. Anne is all of a piece. 
No conventional remorse mars her 
ample analysis of the situation. You 
took five years of my youth to cool 
your old mans fire of love, she tells 
her husband, I took myself back 
whon I in my turn loved someone not 
you. That was just. Yet she ia 
far too healthy to prefer forbidden 
ways. When she awakens from re
pressed girlhood to strong passion
ate womanhood it is to her husband 
sho turns first. Only after he re
pulses her does sho seek fulfillment 
outside hor barron and defrauded 
wedlock. But two wrongs do not 
mako a right, and the boy she draws 
to hor by hor own strength and pas
sion is a poor thing at best, a dwel
ler In tho limbo of thoso who aro 
perpetually at wnr with themselves 
and can never reach heaven nor hell. 
Soonor or later he would inevitably 
hotray hor, or disgust hor with his 
stole waverings of will and conscience. 
But* lioro tho second element of the 
tragedy intorvenes, tho witch burning 
fanaticism of that time (and, in 
slightly differ out form, of all times). 
Tills Is Incarnated for us in tho mob, 
and, with ovon greater psychological 
insight; In the jealous vonom of tho 
old women. Under tho impact of 
tills olomont tho young lovors break; 
Martins woaknoss of mind and soul 
com on out In utter betrayal, and In 
despair at that betrayal tho clear, 
strong, unified mind of Anno which 
has resisted superstition and senti
mental romorso, is shattered like a 
crystal cup.
Mr. Osborne built his production 
with careful artistry from tho quiet, 
pastoral of tho opening curtain, 
poisoned ovon from the first, by ages 
oppression of youth, to tho horror of 
mob fanaticism (what a touch of Osbornian irony, having them hunt out 
tho witch to the tune of A mighty5 
fortross Is our God); through the 
sombre interiors of the second and 
third acts to the full splendor of High 
Church ritual in the burial service. 
His Art Director and Technical Di
rector stood by him valiantly, and a 
number of students caught the idea 
and achieved genuine artistic expres
sion'on the production endwitness 
Miss Marshs stained glass window! 
and the cast, several of whom were 
underclassmen having their first 
leads, rather surprised themselves by 
the possibilities they developed. Mar
ion Beeson was almost ideal as An
ne. Her own delicate beauty and 
atmosphere of highbred girlhood kept 
the part as It should be, cleanly pas
sionate as the springtime. Emerson 
Hall had the most difficult part in 
the play, as Martin. Martin is un
derwritten: some lines emphasizing 
his religious motivation as the young 
priest caught in a conflict between 
the flesh and spirit, might have made 
him a more sympathetic figure. As 
it was, Mr. Hall managed to conve3r 
something flno and boyish and poig
nant that kept the part from being 
too merely weak.- Ruth Schellliase 
encountered the same difficulty in tho 
motlior-in-Jaw, a. woman who appears 
under stross of circumstances in at 
least t.hroo distinct moods or stages 
of fooling, none of which aro ade
quately characterized in lior linos. 
That Is the Norse of itono word, 
and that a truo ono, and lot. tho audi
ence fill In the rest If they can. Good 
literature but hard 011 tho actor. Miss 
Schollluiso felt horsolf into tho part, 
gavo it faithfully, a living inconsis
tent old woman, and lot tho truth of 
the play supply tho unity. Several 
of the bits dosorvo especial praise: 
notably, Dorothy Colion as tho hunt
ed witch whose brief scene on stage 
is romomborod throughout tho play 
and lends horror to the final curtain, 
and Phil Thorne as the very perfectly 
drunken priest. My lord Bishop had 
a voicebut one forbears to call the 
roll of the entire cast. Suffice it to 
say the performance was not all un
worthy of the production, the trans
lation, and the play.
ALLENE GREGORY.
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
Mr. Coolidge has spoken. The ad
ministration has taken up the duties 
for the next four years under the 
guidance of the "silent" man from 
Vermont. All inaugural addresses 
deal with generalities, a solemn 
pledge to patriotism, Americanism 
and humanity. We dedicate our
selves again to uphold the noble tra
ditions of our country and the race. 
But after that, what? The only 
definite statement that Mr. Coolidge 
brought forward was that of tax re
duction and economy. He feels so 
sure of his ground with respect to 
the public in that direction that he 
never falters in his statement. In 
the rest of his address he takes 
care never to make an assertion 
without modifying it shortly after.
To get the gist of the speech some 
excerpts are necessary and a few are 
given below:
We believe that we can best 
serve our country and most success
fully discharge our obligations to hu
manity by continuing to be openly, 
candidly, intensely and scrupulously 
American.
We want a well balanced army 
and navy, not as instruments of 
war but as instruments of security 
and peace.
Especially are we determined not 
to become implicated in the political 
controversies of the Old World. 
We must maintain our position of 
political detachment and independ
ence.
The time is arriving where we 
can have further tax reduction. 
Because of restrictive immigra
tion and a protective tariff, employ
ment is plentiful, pay is high, and 
wage earners are in a state of con
tentment seldom seen before.
"She cherishes no purpose save to 
merit the favor of Almighty God. 
Such statements and more make 
up- the balance of the speech. It' 
seems as if we had come to a time 
in our history, when with all our 
free public education that we boast 
so much about, the people could be 
told a few policies. Is there any 
reason why we cannot have an in
augural address that isnt a crime 
against intelligence? The blame 
doesnt rest with Mr. Coolidge alone, 
hut goes farther back into our po
litical system. Mr. Coolidge is mere
ly following out c-arlior precepts. Not 
a definite word or plan was mention
ed on agriculture, finance, labor, im
migration and the European debts.
Mr. Coolidges greatest asset is the 
ability to surround himself with 
great minds and seemingly to take 
their advice, but he lacks very 
definitely a great breadth of mind, 
and international ousclousness.
On last Saturday Frocrerrcn Ebert, 
the first President of Gormany and 
tho man upon whoso shoulders the 
storm and stress of building a new 
republic! rested, died and loft in his 
wake a groat surge of admiration 
for what I10 was, and a fear for tho 
State with his personality out of it.
He was a strong man with princj 
pies, who stood firm, never thought 
of himself, but gave to his country 
all, and thoroby gainod.and kept tho 
admiration of his pooplo. Very often 
tho really strong! man in politics be
comes a persona non grata due to 
political blackmail and gossip, but 
Ebert seems to lmvo arisen oven 
abovo tho power of tho petty politic
ians to harm him. Even his most 
bitter enomios aro paying him respect 
now.
Tho effect of his death seems to 
be widespread; London feels that the 
attitude of conciliation and co-opera
tion that the government has taken 
on such questions as the Cologne 
evacuation or general disarmament 
will be found lacking with any other 
man at the helm. The census of 
opinion in France seems to be that 
this is the end of the Republic, the 
leaning now is more toward a royal
ist party; but of course France does 
believe that Germany wants to con
quer and dominate the world again 
and this colors her thought.
Looking at Eberts death from a 
purely German point of view, the 
country has- suffered a great loss
TICKET SALE OPEN
FOR SENIOR BALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
from the salesmen, who will be the 
section leaders, after today.
The Committee appeals to the 
economy of the student body before 
putting on the dance, and they have 
set a price as low as $3.50 to make 
it a sure-fire economy dance, on a 
par with the Inaugural Ball. After 
the final trial balance has been made, 
and the 'income Sheet drawn up, the 
Senior Class will be assessed the dif
ference between the loss and zero, so 
in the long run, unless the seniors 
turn out more than 100 couples, they 
will make up the deficit from their 
dues, and that will defeat the pur
pose of the Committee.
The Ball will be held in the Union, 
the Collegiate Imps will play, there 
will be decorations in keeping with 
the Paradise Isle motif, and there 
will be something to eat. There will 
be no banquet, there will be no Vin
cent Lopez, there will be no glaring 
lights from a crystal chandelier, there 
will be no elevator boys to wlilsk pat
rons up to the Ball Room, but it will 
be formal. There will be good lights 
behind comfortable lounges, giving 
soft, indirect illumination. There 
will be a fountain in the conserva
tory which will crystalize the rays of 
light thrown upon it. There will be 
sufficient chairs and lounges for all 
who are too tired and there will be 
the best floor In the city for those 
who want to dance.
The Class of '25, has not failed to 
put anything across in its history, 
so it certainly will make the Senior 
Ball the Grand Climax.
SCENE SET FOR SCIENCE j COMMONS AND GRILL ROOM
STAG THIS SATURDAY . WILL CLOSE FOR ASSEMBLIES
(Continued From Page One.) 
cover the mighty sophomore in his 
less haughtier moments, while still 
a frosh.
Favors, so radical as to far surpass 
foregoing remembrances of this type, 
will then be distributed among the 
now thoroughly comfoxtable Stag
ers as they wield their flaming 
Camels. The winners of the popu
larity contests will be presented' with 
| tokens ' of esteem designating the 
branch of notoriety in which the re
cipient has gained renown. All bash
ful candidates are mrged to attend, 
for it is likely that the prizes not 
awarded at the fest will be given- out 
at General Assembly.
With a cloud of smoke and a thou
sand laughs as the wise cracks of 
the stunts are repeated, the crowd 
I will then adjourn to the Commons 
I where a lunch of both quality and 
quantity will be served. When all 
cravings have been satisfied by the 
highly palatable food the judges, 
headed by Director Mott and includ
ing H. S'. Hower, A. W. Tarbell, R. 
V.. Davis, and Obie Newman, will 
have decided on the best' student act 
and the cup will be awarded to the 
victorious class. The Science Stag 
of 1925 will then be history.
This affair is being managed by 
Fred Rossini, Chairman, various sub
committees, and the class and faculty 
stunt committees. Only men of the 
Engineering College and freshmen of 
Science and Industries are permitted 
to attend.
PLEBES TO PARADE
ON ALL FOOLS DAY
(Continued From Page One) 
will no longer have to wear their 
plebe caps, and in Arts school six 
men and six women will desert their 
friends in the matter of distinctive 
dress.
The plan is to release the plebes 
from classes at 11:00 a. m., in order 
that they will have time to dress for 
the first review to take place in the 
separate assemblies at 11:30. Since 
the roll will be called and the names 
checked off, it will be necessary to 
report to that particular assembly 
the individual is attending this 
semester.
Winners will be determined by the 
applause received. The method is 
not to hire a paid crowd of rooters, 
but to devise an original costume so 
as to earn the admiration of the stu
dents. The plebes have always re
garded this fancy dress parade not 
as a celebration to commemorate 
fools that have gone before, but as 
their own affair which they must 
make good.
After the personal review a parade 
of the entire class will be held. This 
event has always been a big publicity 
affair dominated by the newspaper 
men from the city dailies. But this 
year the plan is to make it a student 
celebration rather than a publicity 
stunt.
The committee to have charge of 
the arrangements in the different 
schools are A. E. Krogh, Science; 
Peg Taylor, Arts; Estelle Garbaldi, 
Margaret Morrison; D. V. Beede, In
dustries. Publicity is to be in charge 
of Fred Rossini.
(Continued From Page One.) 
of the Son? Book Committee is to be 
abandoned. Hereafter, the cheer
leaders are not to be under the juris
diction of the staff, and the business 
of the Tri-Publications Staff will be 
concerned purely with the three pub
lications named. The chief object of 
the staff will be to keep up the high 
standard of the Carnegie Song Book.
This re-organization is confidently 
expected to succeed in its purpose. 
The members of the staff have had 
much experience with Carnegie pub
lications. Moreover, they encourage 
student suggestions for improvement 
in any of the three publications. Any 
such suggestions may be handed in 
at the Carnegie Post Office addressed 
to the Tri-Publications Staff.
COMBINED MUSICAL CLUBS 
HOME CONCERT AT CAR
NEGIE MUSIC HALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
orchestra will bo a revelation, which 
should not bo missed.
Tickets for both the concert and 
tlio dance are now 011 sale iu the 
office of the Carnegie Tech branch 
of the Y. M. C. A. Students will be 
allowed first' choice of tho seat loca
tions for the concert, but are advised 
to purchase early. This concert will 
bo opened to the public, and there 
will be quite a demand for tickets. 
Everyone Is coming to the best event 
that Pittsburgh and Carnegie has 
ever had.
Women Speak Many Tonguea
The women of Russia, Hungary, and 
Turkey have the reputation of being 
the best linguists of any women in the 
world. In the countries named it is 
rare to find an educated woman who 
does not know at least three or four 
languages.
Men of political, genius, integrity of 
purpose and steadfastness of mind 
are none too plentiful in any coun
try and Germany especially needs 
such leaders.
fgPnniLArID gtaE DTAiHiC
ALVIN
Rose-Marie is back! That would 
be enough to get a full house for this 
theater this week, but with the addi
tional remark that Irene Pavloska of 
the Chicago Opera Company is with 
the ABNOGQU we are certain that the box 
office will be closed early in the week. 
We saw the production wlien it wrent 
through here several weeks ago, and 
it Avas magnificent. It is possible that 
we may go again.
DAVIS
Whon tho Lilliputians como to town 
things take 011 a now aspoct. Tills 
group of little pooplo, 23 in number, 
play So Tills Is LUliput."
Dr. George Roclcwoll, tho funniest 
nut in captivity, is hero as a special 
attraction this week. Ho is bound to 
rack tho rafters, or whatever tho roof 
is supported by.
Lydia Barry is another funmaker on 
the, weeks program. She is funny.
Julia Nash and C. H. ODonnell, 
comedy stars, present Bostoclcs radio 
cartoon, entitled "Static. Better 
tune in, and see what is broadcast.
Harry Jolson, Als brother, is here 
with Jerema Green, and will sing op
eratic blackface numbers. Madelyn 
and Norman Meredith will dance. Ed 
and Jennie Rooney do mid-air flights. 
Songs and dances are purveyed by 
Harkness and Calkers.
PITT
Drama has the stage this wreek at 
this theater. Lowell Sherman pre
sents his version of Willard Macks 
High Stakes. It is a gripping 
drama, thrilling to the finish.
GRAND
Priscilla Dean is here in person as 
wrell as in the production of A Cafe 
in Cairo. Supplementary entertain
ment will he furnished by the Crite
rion Male Quartet, singing their sec
ond week at this theater. Tills pic 
tiire is augmented by a short act 
given by Miss Dean and Her Leading 
Man, with six of tho cast in costume 
as the picture. Tills is Miss Deans 
first tour beforo the public, and the 
picture is her best. Robert Ellis is 
tho leading man.
SCHENLEY THEATER
The Balabanow Trio, playing piano 
accordions, will offer an unsurpassed 
musical novelty as the added attrac
tion at the Schenley theater during 
the entire week.
The Dark Swan will be the feat
ure photoplay on Monday, Tuesday 
and Wednesday. The cast includes 
Marie Prevost and Monte Blue.
The stupendous production, The 
Hunchback of Notre Dame, will be 
the feature on Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday. Lon Chaney heads the no
table cast of 3,091 players.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Carnegie as it is and then again as 
it might be. The scenes of magni
ficence and grandeur are a futuristic 
conception of moments in the bean
ery, in Arts foyer, and on our cam
pus green. Songs are to be sung by 
the entire student body, the words of 
which will be flashed upon a screen.
So far this year the student body 
has shown very little interest in gen
eral assemblies.- The committee, in 
charge of Obie Newman, has aimed 
to make this assembly more enter
taining in order to revive interest. 
Having the assembly in the Union 
should prove an added attraction, es
pecially to those who, either becausc 
of swollen ankles, fallen arches', or 
other serious disability, have been 
unable to attend general assemblies 
held at the Music Hall.
LOIS SNYDER, M. M. SENIOR
IS CALLED BY PI SIGMA TAU
TRI-PUBLICATIONS
STAFF ORGANIZED
(Continued From Page One) 
among the highest scholastically and 
earns part of her expenses. Her 
mark in The Tartan, Puppet, and 
Song Book counted for much in in
fluencing her selection for the scholar
ship and her achievements should 
prove to be an inspiration to her fel
low students.
Pi Sigma Tau corresponds to the 
mens journalistic fraternity, Pi Delta 
Epsilon. It has been in existence at 
Carnegie only a few years but already 
is one of the most coveted honoraries 
the women have.
The Betty Rogers 
Beauty Parlor
CRAIG STREET 
Near Center Avenue
CO-EDS!!
This is for you.
We invite you to try our beauty 
treatments
Massages
Shampoos
Treatments for Dandruff
This is the place to get a beau
tiful Marcel Wave and a skin 
that you love to touch.
Rates Reasonable.
JNEZ...
nSU HN!MGeduU ldMMdoUmb iSop
SCHENLEY APARTMENTS 4016 FIFTH AVENUE
extends a special invitation and spring welcome to the 
CARNEGIE TECH GIRLS 
THE INEZ SIGNIFIES 
SIMPLICITY! STYLE! INDIVIDUALITY!
Hats of Distinction for every personality.
SECOND CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Announces a
FREE LECTURE ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
-byWILLIAM DUNCAN KILPATRICK, C. S. B., OF DETROIT, MICH.
Member of the Board of Lectureship of the Mother Church, the First 
Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
SUNDAY AFTERNOON, MARCH 15th, 1925 At 3:15 OClock 
KENYON THEATER 
S19 Federal Street, North Side 
The Public Is Cordially Invited To Attend.
Take Crosstown Car or Cars Nos. 8, 9, 13, 14, 15
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
^Jhe largest selling 
quality pencil 
\ the world
Superlative in quality, 
the world-famousENUS
PENCILS
Buy
dozen
give best service and 
longest wear.
Plain ends, pep dor. $1.00 
Rubber ends, per dor. 1.20 
oAt all dealers 
American Lead Pencil Co. 
220 Fifth Ave., N.Y.
ALL
SEATS
25ciCDHNtHE
ALL
SEATS
25cTHEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GENL MGR.
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAY
nSU Damk 
iwao
A daring, thrilling adaptation 
of the popular novel by ER
NEST PASCAL, with 
Marie Prevost, Monte Blue and 
Helene Chadwick. 
COMEDY NEWS
AESOPS FABLE
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY
BY REQUEST 
The Greatest Screen Attraction 
of the Age:
'The Hunchback 
of Notre Dame
With
too CSaoUb
All WeekUNSURPASSED NOVELTYAll Week
The Balabanow Trio
Including the young musical genius, WILLIAM BALABANOW, the 
master of the piano accordion.
NO TROUBLE TO PARK AT THE SCHENLEY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 10, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
P
!J*PLAID ATHLETICS
J*
DONOHOE LEADING 
SCORER OF TEAM
Some Interesting Statistics 
Gathered on Season Just 
Closed
FRESHMEN TRACK MEN
SHOULD REPORT TO
MANAGER DAVE GARBER
With the last of the season's basbet ball games played and. won, a 
chance presents itself to gather a 
few slat'sties on the team. The first 
half of the schedule oi sixteen games 
saw Carnegie on the loosing, end of 
all but three of the scores. How
ever, during the last eight contests, 
the situation reversed itself, the Tartans winning all but three. In the 
ratio of the number of points 'scored 
by the Plaid to those scored against 
it, Carnegie was not as fortunate 
as one might be led to believe, "ne 
opponents marking up 482 to the 
Plaids 478.
Practically the game team played 
throughout the . entire season, Cap
tain Matter and .. Amans trading 
places on the eligibility list after 
the mid-year exams. Donohoe proved 
to be the point scorer of the squad, 
being twelve markers of his nearest 
rival, Conrad, who had 78. Amans, 
Lynch and Newman follow in the or
der named.
In the percentage of points made 
from the foul line, Amans and Lynch 
lead the rest of the squad with av
erages of .666 each.
In the following tab-.e G. P., F. G. 
and P. of F. stand for games played 
in, field goals scored and percentage 
of successful tries from the foul 
line, respectively.
G.P F.G. P. ofF.
Donohoe .................. 16 51 .48S
Conrad ...................... 16 39 .500
Lynch ...................... 16 31 .666
Beede ......................Ii3 8 .500
Amans ..................... 11 33 .666
Newman; ................. 11 23 .545
Glanz ...................... 6 3 .500
Matter ...................... 5 6 .591
A summary of the seasons games 
is as follows:
Carnegie-----20Princeton ............ 52
Carnegie-----21Penn State......... 34
Carnegie.... 31Geneva .............. 28
Carnegie-----27W. & J._________ 33
Carnegie-----22Pitt .......... 31
Carnegie.... 31Grove City.......... 34
Carnegie.. .. 36Geneva ............... 25
Carnegie____ 27Pitt .................... 19
Carnegie-----42F. & M............... 19
Carnegie----- 38Drexel Inst........14
Carnegie.... 20City Col. of N. Y. 22
Carnegie----- 36Notre Dame_____ 31
Carnegie.... 32W. & J.............. 35
Carnegie___35W. Va. Wes____28
Carnegie____24Grove City........... 43
Carnegie----- 36Westminster ... 33
All Plebes interested in track as 
track men or managers should re
port to Dave Garber, Freshman 
Manager, any evening after 4:30 at 
the Field House. The team will be 
chosen immediately for the various 
track events and the men will enter 
the track meet at he Armory on 
MaVch 27 and 2S, in which Paavo 
Nurmi, famous Fin, will run. The 
Freshman track schedule will be 
ready within a short time.
Total
Carnegie.. 478Opponents. .452
MANAGER SLOAD WANTS ALL 
TENNIS CANDIDATES TO REPORT
All candidates interested in var
sity or Freshmen tennis, of Fresh
men or 'S'ophomore managers, are re
quested to report to Manager Hoeffer Sload in the new gym at 4:30 
oclock Wednesday afternoon.
Both the athletic and the frat stu
dent will "play safe" by getting his 
hand fitted with a Safety Students 
Special fountain pen at SingersJen
kins Arcade.
PLEBES BREAK EVEN ON 
INDIANA-KISKI TRIP
On Friday afternoon the Carnegie 
Plebes set out upon the final lap 
of their basket ball season. Indiana 
State Normal and Kiski were to be 
played on consecutive nights on their 
own floors. Indiana was defeated and 
Kiski scored a victory, thus causing 
an even break for the Plebes on the 
trip.
The first game was with Indiana 
and it proved to be a close, hardfouglit contest. The playing was fast 
and both teams clung to each other 
so closely that when the whistle 
blew for the end of the- game the 
score was tied and required an extra 
five-minute period to decide the win
ner. In the extra period Carnegie 
garnered a two-point lead and
emerged victorious by a score of 26 
to 24.
For Carnegie, Hurd scored four 
field goals and to this Retts and Sebastion each added one. At shooting 
fouls Indiana had the better aver
age, making 8 of 16 tries, while the 
best the Plebes could do was 7 of 
20 attempts.
The game at Saltsburg with Kiski 
Avas a complete reversal. Carnegie 
did not seem able to get going. 
From the first whistle to the last 
Kiski had their way. At no time 
did Carnegie lead or crowd for the 
lead. The game ended with the 
score standing at 39 to 28 for Kiski 
was the big .* factor whose playing 
kept them so persistently\ in the 
lead. He had to his credit eight field 
goals. Hurd for Carnegie again
stood out prominently this time
scoring six field goals. Cowan fol
lowed with three and I-Iunro and Se
bastian with one each. At the foul 
line the honors were divided, Kiski 
making 3 of 5 and Carnegie 6 of 10 
tries.
The lineup and summaries follow:
Indinana Normal24.
Carnegie Freshmen26.
Altshouse ............F................ Monroe
Hughes .................F..................... Hurp
Alixilc ..........;...C....................... Ritz
Giest ......................G................... Cowan
McGill ...................G............ iSiebastian
Sugstitutions  Shelly for Hughes. 
Field goalsAltshouse 2, Alixilc 3, 
Hurp 4, Ritz, Sebastian. Foul goals 
Indiana, 8 out of 16; Carnegie, 7 
out of 20.
FRAT-D0RM TEAMS I 
NOW ON LAST LAPOn the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
D. U. and Pi K. A. Lead Nats 
Phi Kaps and Scobel 
Remain in Lead
Kiski39. Plobos28.
McCandless ........F................. Monroe
Worall ...................F..................... Hurd
Ulloin ...................C................... Ritts
Shively ..................G................. Cowan
McLean .................G............ Sebastion
Dont Be An Antique
Some people look like an old relic in formal clothes that 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. Youll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smlthfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:305:30
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Smiles i'ight ^ back at
CANDIES 
ICE CREAM 
LUNCHEON 
DINNER 
6 TO 8 P. M. 'Jf
Our New 
 Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
is serving a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We invite the students to 
meet their friends in the Reymer Store.
WRKIflS"after every meal '
Take care of your teeth! 
Use Wrigleys regularly.
It removes food particles 
from the crevices. Strength
ens th gums. Combats 
acid mouth.
Refreshing and beneficial!
F57 .
STALED
TIGHT
KEPT
RIGHT
There are only a few more inter
fraternity games left to be playecj, 
some teams finishing their schedule, 
with their next contest, and the 
champions in each league are pretty 
well determined., in the popular mind 
at least.
Delta Upsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha 
will more than iilcely have to play 
oft' the tie in the National League, 
as both are expected lo win their 
next game. Unless an upset occurs. 
Phi Kappa will lead the American 
circuit, by remaining undefeated. In 
the other league tho championship 
hinges on the outcome of the Delta 
Tau Delta-Scobell game. A win for 
the former would tie things up, but 
if Scobel wins they too will be un
defeated league champions. Thus it 
is fairly safe to look for the 1925 
champions to emerge from the ranks 
of those just mentioned.
One big upset occurred in the past 
weeks play, when Kappa Sigma Rho 
managed to defeat Delta Tau Delta 
17 to 15. It was the formers good 
play in the last quarter that decided 
the issue and nullified the hard work 
of the Delts. The result probably 
was particularly bitter to the latter 
when Scobell their only rival for the 
lead, set the high-score mark of the 
season in vanquishing Delta Cl 
Rho, 61-0.
Theta Xi had little trouble in win
ning from Henderson, 21 to 9. The 
T. X. group seems to De a particu
larly strong combination, but their 
late start destroyed their chances 
for any laurels. The Phi Kaps con
tinued their winning ways, by annex
ing two more victories in their 
league. Siclii is still the outstanding 
member, as shown in last weeks 
Play.
The Betas and tho S. A. E.s 
staged a close contest for three 
periods, and then the former drew 
away to win, 30 to 19. Bastian 
scored frequently, but It was Pohlmeyers playing that attracted at
tention. Delta Phi Delta gave Mc
Gill a scare in the other oop, but 
missed victory by one point.
Another season record was made 
ip the Scobell game when Duncan 
succeeded in amassing eleven field 
goals, thereby going Bastian one 
better.
Results last week:
Delta Upsilon ................................. 37
Boss ..................................................... 3
Theta Xi............................................... 21
Henderson ......................................... 9
Phi Kappa ......................................... 21
Delta Mu,............................................. S
Phi Kappa ......................................... 45
Acacia  ............................................. 3
Beta Theta Pi..................................... 30
iSligma Alpha Epsilon..................... 19
Kappa Sigma ................................... 24
Sigma Nu ........................................... 7
A GOOD ENDING
j The tlirillingvictory of the Skibos over Westminster on Saturday brought 
to a close one of the best basket ball seasons the Tartans luivo ever had. 
Despite the fact that only eight games were won. while tho same number 
were lost, that is better than any other Carnegie quintet has been able 
to do, from what we can gather in looking up the records. We broke even 
with Pitt, and Notre Dame was beaten in the initial basket ball struggle 
between the Irish and the Scotch, thus successfully disposing of two of the 
biggest games on the schedule. In addition, a profitable eastern trip was 
had which brought glory to Carnegie.
Heretofore basket hall has not met with very much success at Carnegie. 
This may partly have been because basket ball follows right on the heels 
of the football season, and as a rule most of the basket ball stars are those 
who also play football. By the time football is over the boys are behind in 
their stuides. with the result that they must sacrifice the floor game to make 
up back work.******
Despite the good year that the team enjoyed in basket ball, how
ever, it is hardly fitting that the boys should receive gold basket \
balls for their work. Gold footballs, basket balls or baseballs, we 
understand, are given as a reward for some outstanding achievement. 
About the only claim to distinction to which the team this season 
could point would be the Notre Dame victory, and while the Irish 
have a strong team, they by no means stand out as the premier team 
of the West.
We have a hunch that the season next year will be a touch better 
one than that which just closed. In that event, the chances are 
that the team will be rewarded with gold basket baits. Since only 
one man will not be back, the others all returning, the men will be 
justly compensated. Everything will be lovely ail around.***>)**
MANAGERS
Now' that everyone is paying homage to the boys who fought for the 
glory of Carnegie in basket ball, let us not forget another man who worked 
just as hard as the playersManager Dick Cutting. Dick has been very 
much on the job ever since the season opened, and even before. 1-Ie has 
left no stone unturned to help make this a banner year lor the Tartans. And 
he has trained liis corps of assistants to follow in his footsteps. Tho players 
all declare that they have never received better treatment from any manager 
than they have from Cuttingno higher tribute than this could be paid.*  .* * * * *
REPORT FOR BASEBALL AND TRACK
Baseball practice starts at once for the battery candidates,
while track practice has been going on for some time under the 
direction of Coach Halferty. Practically every member of the track 
team will be entered in the meet to be held in the Armory late this 
month, so it behooves every available track man to get out for prac
tice at once and round Into condition.
Coach Don Blyth of the baseball team will have charge of the
battery candidates in the new gym, where the limcring-up process
will take place. The bleachers have been taken down on one side 
of the court, leaving plenty of space to throw the baseballs back and 
forth. Just as soon as the weather permits the squad will go out
doors in preparation for the Easter trip.
There are wonderful opportunities to make a position on either 
the track or baseball team this year, and everyone who has even the 
slightest ability along either line is urged to report to the various 
managers at once.
In the headlines of tho local papers Saturday morning was soon tho 
following: Crimson leads entire game minus its star center, Swoot.
That young man may bo Grove Citys star contor, but let us say right hero 
that their giant center, Fay, is really tho man who is responsible for win
ning both games from tho Skibos this season. Tho only othor man wo have 
seen this year who rivals Fay it center Is Big Boy Thomas, of WashJeff. Coach Bob Thorn can laugli that off if ho wishes.******
It is said that Conrad afid Boedo played the game of their lives against 
Westminster. Donohoo and Amans were guarded so closely that they, could 
do little in a scoring way, but the flrst mentioned boys suro did come through 
in glorious fashion.. Boodo was acHng-captain in this game.******
We are told that Bert "Munheimer nearly got; into a scrap at Grovo 
City. He protested vigorously because the homo playors liold so iroquontly, 
and the official failed to notice it, though tho offonse time and again was very 
flagrant. Atta boy, Bert!******
Coach Bob Thorn paid our boys a compliment after tho game. Car
negie never quits, ho said.
Wally Lynch was hurt in the Westminster, game whon ho foil Into tho 
bleachers, and had to retire. Gian/, took his place and put up an oxcollont 
battle.******
When the Plebes sbrimmago in'practice Coach Jimmy Robertson acts as 
referee. He does not use a whistle, howevor. Ho just purses up bin lips and 
emits a sharp, shrill blast which can bo hoard throughout tho gym.******
Wo believe a call should bo issued again for boxing team candldatos. A 
couple of budding Dempseys thrilled (?) those coming from 10:30 olassos on 
Friday with a combination llstlc combat and foot race.******
HOW ABOUT GOLF THIS SPRING?
TOOTS AMANS ELECTED 
CAPTAIN OF 1925 QUINT
Delta Tau Delta................................. 15
Kappa Sigma Rho............................. 17
Scobell ............................................... 6J
Delta Chi Rho ................................. 0
McGill ................................................. 12
Delta Phi Delta ............................. 11
Welch ................................................. 12
Delta Phi Delta ............................. 6
Delta Tau Delta ............................. 17
Iota Sigma Rho ............................... 9
Beta Sigma Rho. 
Boss ..............
GROVE CITY TRIUMPHS 
OVER TARTANS, 43-24
In the first game of its two-day 
trip, Carnegie in a game that very 
often resembled a football battle, 
came cut of the fray on the small 
end of a 43 to 24 score.
The contest opened with a fast 
clip and the rivals battled evenly
with no more than one point separat
ing them until the GroveiS had run 
their total to 10, when they shot 
ahead of the Plaid, never to be
pressed. The score stood 10 to 9
at the quarter, but during the second 
quarter the Grove City five annexed 
a few field goals and the score stood 
18 to 9 at the half.
In the second half the Tartan
failed to make the usual strong come
back, but instead the Grovers ran 
wild. Led by Stevens, who caged 
six of his eight goals in the second 
half, the opponents quickly piled up 
a commanding advantage. Captain 
Flemming was close behjpd with five 
double deckers, while Fay dropped 
in four.
Donohoe and Amans were the big 
guns for the Tartans, Donahoe cag 
ing three and Amans two goals. 
Amans moved up to E' forward posi
tion in Newman's place, Obie not 
making the trip on account of work 
at school. The loss might be mostly 
contributed to the change in lineup 
and the team failing to get working 
together until the second night of the 
trip when they took Westminster, 
the team that beat Princeton, into 
camp.
It was in the second period that 
the game grew rough, although it 
was more because of its speed than
Intentional roughing.
The lineup was as follows:
Grovo City43. Carnogle24.
Stevens ...............F............... Donohoe
Fleming ...............F................... Amans
Fay ........................C................... Conrad
Roce ......................G..................... Beede
Pillette ................G................... Lynch
SubstitutionsShelley for Fay, 
Ross for Shelley, Gian/, for Beede, 
Beede for Conrad, Conrad for Glanz. 
Field goalsStevens 8, Fleming 5, 
Fay 4, Donohoe 3, Amans 2, Conrad. 
Lynch 2. Foul goalsGrove City, 
9 out of 15; Carnegie, 8 out of 12. 
Time of periods20 minutes. Ref
ereeBeggs Snyder.
LAFAYETTE WINS
RIFLE MATCH FROM
SKIBOS 1,925 TO 1.850
The Carnegie Riflers lost another 
match during the past week when 
Lafayette College romped away with 
a 1.925 to 1,850 victory. The highest 
possible score was 2,000 for the 
team, while the highest possible 
individual score was 400. The five 
men who placed for Carnegie were: 
Reck 376, Knappenberger 373, Tatum
370, Wilson 364, Johnor 364 and 
Hughes 3(54:
TCNYS wook Gettysburg Collogo will 
be met.
THIS! WEEK'S SCHEDULE
MARCH 10.
7:30Delta UpsilonHenderson.
7:30Delta Pi Deltalota Sigma 
Delta.
8:30Sigma Alpha EpsilonDelta 
Mu.
8:30PI Kappa AlphaBeta Sig
ma Rho.
MARCH 11.
7:30Delta Tau DeltaScobell.
7:30Phi KappaSigma Nu.
8:30Kappa SigmaAcacia.
8:30Theta XiBoss.
MARCH 12.
7:30WelchMcGill.
7:30Kappa Sigma Rho  Delta 
Chi Rho.
8:30Alpha Tau Omega  Wood
lawn.
8:30Beta Theta PiSigma Epsi
lon Phi.
Interfraternity Standings
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Delta Upsilon
Woodlawn 
Boss ..........
WonLostPet.
51.833
51.833
32.600
32.600
33.500
23.400
14.200
05.000
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Phi Kappa ......................................................................
Beta Theta Pi ..............................................................
Sigma Epsilon Phi .......................................................
Kappa Sigma .............................................................................. 3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................................................................ 2
Sigma Nu ......................................................................
Delta Mu ........................................................................
Acacia ............................................................................................ 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Scobell ......................................................................................... 5
Delta Tau Delta ........................................................................ 5
Kappa Sigma Rho .................................................................... 4
McGill ..............................................................................
Welch ........................................................................................... 3
lota Sigma Delta ..........................................................
Delta Chi Rho ...............................................................
Delta Phi Delta .......................................................................... 0
WonLostPet.
01.000
1,833
1.800
. 33.500
4.333
4.200
. 15.166
5.000
WonLootPet.
01.000
I.833
. 2.666
2.666
2.600
5.200
5.000
5.000
Lloyd (Toots) Amans, tho Akron 
boy who has been going: great guns 
in basket ball since ho joined the 
quintet at the beginning of the secoud semester, was honored by his 
teammates last Saturday when he 
was chosen to captain the 1925*6 
team. The election was hold just 
before the Wesaminster game, and 
was in charge of Manager Cutting', 
Coach Irwin and Trainer Munhall.
Toots needs no Introduction to Carnegians, for his excellent work on 
the rectangular court tho past sea
son has endeared him to all who 
have witnessed him in action. I-le is 
a polished basket ball player, can 
pivbt. dribble, pass. anA shoot ac
curately, and best of all has basket 
ball senseknows just what to do 
at the right time. He plays either a 
forward or guard position equally 
well.
Captain Amans comes from West 
High, Akron, where he starred in 
four sportsfootball, baseball, basket 
ball and track. He was captain of 
the crack football and basket ball 
teams turned out at West High 
some years ago. and proved an able 
leader. In his first year at Carnegie 
ho played halfback on the Freshman 
grid team, but the following year at 
training camp hurt his knee so 
badly that ho was forced to give up 
that sport. He is five feet seven 
inches tall and weighs 165 pounds, 
and achieved distinction as a clip
per, and for his fierce tackling.
Toots is a Junior In tho printing 
courso of the College of Industries, 
and a member of Pi Kappa. Alpha 
fraternity.
TRACK MEN WORKING 
WITH COACH HALFERTY
With tho advent of warm days 
tho track men are working out 
daily. Coach Guy Iiaiforty is on 
hand every afternoon for ho realizes 
that thero Is much to bo done before 
a representative team can bo placed 
in competition. Halferty is trying 
to get his men in shape oarlior this 
year than before, for ho oxpects to 
enter a nuinbor of them in tho moot 
at the 107th Armory tho 27th of 
March, This Is tho moot in which 
Paavo Nurmi, tho Flying Finn, Is 
entered and much Intorost is being 
taken In this track classic.
Coach Halferty Is entering two 
varsity relay teams and ono Fresh
man relay team, and Varsity and 
Freshman men will bo entered In 
practically all collogiato and open 
ovents.
Tho mon who aro showing up woll 
for tho Varsity this yoar aro Goo', 
Dyko, a. member of last year's 
champion rolay team, Bob Bier, Poto 
Seaman, Kelly, MoKlnnoy and Rhodes 
in tho 220 and quarter mllo. In tho
LEARN TO DANCE
at tho
Jacques School of Dnnolng 
Crnlfl nnd Forbcn Strooto 
Boglnnors Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday ovonlngii. Prlvuto lossonu 
by appolntmont.
Tills hi a School
Not a public danco hall.
The Fraternity of 
Businessl
Bojrln now to form tho nnnoclntlonn 
and hnblln thnt will eorvo you whon 
yon ontor tho huBlntiBii world. A 
bnnk nc'count, lutldo irom tho tun- fclblo value, furnlHhon oxjnirloiico 
and contact which will oporalo to, 
your advanUiao In lator yoarii.
Tho poriional intercut oC Mul|on of
ficer In tho flnunclal wolfaro of 
depoBltorn In ono of tho outntnml> 
inj? characteristic!) of tho lnntltutlon. Our exporlcnca and buiiU 
nuns judgment aro at your Bcrvice. 
Capital nnd Surplus $12,000,000.00
Mellon National Bank
PLAID BASKETEERS 
WIN LAST CONTEST
Westminster, Princeton Con
queror, Falls Before 
Spirited Attack
The Tartans got together alter 
their loss to tho Grove City five, 
made a strong comeback and beat, 
tho Westminster team in a fast game 
by a score 3G to 33, on Saturday 
night, the second game of their twoday trip.
Tho Skibos Hashed a speedy pass
ing attack and seemed to work to
gether from the start. The first hal 
was played on even terms both sides 
showing good team work, and tho 
New Wilmington crew managed to 
get a one point lead on the 'Skibos 
just as tho whistle blew for tho 
half, the half ending 15 to 14.
In the second part of the fray 
Carnegie made i\ good rally which 
it failed to do in the Grovo City 
tilt, outplaying Westminster 21 to 
17. Beedes marksmaarhip from longrange accounted for timely field 
goals. Beede led in the scoring for 
the Tartans; Conrad dropped in 
three field goals, and Lynch, Dona
hue and Amans each got two apiece.
Pablo was the star of the New 
Wilmington quintet, scoring six field 
goals.
The line up was as follows:
Westminster23. Carnegie30.
Hotra .......................F..... Donahue
Pable .......................F.............. Amans
McMeekin ..............C.............. Conrad
Goldstrom ..............G.............. Beede
Kelly .......................G.............. Lynch
SubstitutionsLogan for Pable. 
Wolf for Kelly, Glanz for Lynch. 
Field goalsPallia. G, Goldstrom 2, 
Iietra, Logan, Wolf, Beede *1, Con
rad 3, Lynch 2, Amans 2, Donahue 
2, Blans. FoulsI-Ietra, 2 out of 2: 
Palile 2) out of -1; Logan, ! out of -1; 
McMookin, 3 out of 4; Wolf, 0 out 
of 1; Donahue, 5 out of 8; Amans, 
21 out of 2; Boodo, 1 out of 1!. Ref
ereeC. L. Bolster, W. P. B, O. A.
mile thoro are Clarence Peck, Captan-oloct of tho cross country team, 
Ewing, Jack Bright and Habo. In 
the dashos thoro aro Bohn, Joo 
Christoff and Sclnivor. Tod Stultz, 
Bus Do Urles and F. N. Cook aro 
doing daily do/.ens ovor tho hurdles.
Tho Plobos have governi outstand
ing performers In Crawford who can 
run anything from tho quarter to six 
miles, Lund green who Is showing up 
well In tho hurdlt, Wolf, Hooper, 
Porry and morseli, Munro Is oxpoctod out ah soon as basket ball 
BS over, Tho former Wllklnsburg 
star BS In for a good yoar In tho 
polo vault and much Is oxpoctod of 
him In tho ihroad jump. Freshmen 
and sophomores aro roquosted to 
conio out for assistant manager, 
thoro hi a big domami l'or managers 
and thin Is a. chance to "how your 
stuff." *
"PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS"
STUDENTS!
Wo Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Filins, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A"c for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
psEEEHHai i ADE M1 rjHE ENGLISH WAY  ajsHEEE/sFg
WATCH FOR EXHIBITS
of our correctly denl(jned MEN'S CLOTHES cnrofully tailored In the 
ENGLISH FASHION from DISTINCTIVE IMPORTED and DOMES
TIC FABRICS.
You will Hcrvc your pocket book ao well aa your wardrobe If we 
make your next oult.
NATIONAL TAILORS, Inc.
TO ORDERTO ORDER
$29.50
Our rcprenentatlvc 
will display our lino at
SKIBO INN 
March 19th and 20th
ISM3MSM3/3/5J
Nationally KnownJustly Famous
MADE IN THE ENGLISH WAYEHaajaBS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 10, .=>25
J*ALUMNI PAGE
The Department of Social Work
By Profocsor Mary C. Burnett.
What BS Social Work anyway? Ih a 
question often asked of both embryo 
and full-fledged social workers, and It 
Ih not an easy question to answer. 
Social work an a profession BS rather 
a new Idea, and, an it BS SB'BBB Jn a 
state of "becoming." It defies rigid 
definition. One muni; full back there
fore, upon the expedient of enumer
ating the kinds of things that the no
dal worker does- under tho general 
head of helping the disadvantaged 
groups In society and working to Im
prove Hoclal conditions.
Graduates of the Social Work De
partment at Margaret Morrison are 
now engaged In a number of different 
kinds of work. Ono Ih In charge of 
the club house conducted for the em
ployes of Vassal* College. One Is asslstant to tho head worker of a set
tlement, another Is director of a play
ground, another in. charge of the rec
reation work In the Tulsa public 
schools, and a fourth Is in the recre
ation department of the Chicago 
schools. IFour are helping Allegheny 
county to care for widows with de
pendent children through the Moth
ers Assistnee Fund. One has gone 
as far went as Salt Lake City to work 
in the Associated Charities there, 
while several are similarly employed 
by the Associated Charities of Pitts
burgh and tiie social work depart
ments of some of our hospitals. Three 
are in Philadelphia, one engaged in 
visiting teaching work, another BS di
rector of recreation in a school for 
orphan girls, while the third is with 
the Childrens Aid Society. It is ob
vious* therefore, that those who have 
completed the training offered at Car
negie have a wide choice of opportu
nities open for them. The social 
work Held Ih, developing rapidly, and 
there aro not enough trained workers 
to meet the demand.
In what does this training consist? 
Iri the flrst place It Involves a study 
of those subjects which help us to un
derstand human beings in their rela
tionships,^ each othor: Psychology, 
Sociology, Economics. In tho second 
place, the student gets practical ex
perience In tho fleldacting as tho 
leader in a children's club, visiting 
families In need of helpalong with 
Instruction in the principles and meth
ods which underlie that work, while 
in the third place there is added a 
number of semi-technical courses, 
such as statistics, criminology, Immi
gration, child welfare, which deal 
with different aspects of the social 
work fleld. Visiting lectures, connect
ed with social work agencies in Pitts
burgh and elsewhere, meet the stu
dents from time to time and tell them 
concretely of their own experiences, 
and of the work of their organiza
tions.
The studies in the Sophomore and 
Junior year are the same for all stu
dents. In the Senior year there is 
a possibility of choice between two of 
the main divisions of the field, name
ly, case work, which is a preparation 
for positions with family welfare so
cieties, child caring agencies and the 
social service department of hospitals, 
and group work, which leads to such 
positions as director of playgrounds, 
or summer camps, or recreation in 
instil.id.lons, or as club leader with 
different organizations, such as the Y. 
W. C. A., or in settlements and com
munity centers.
Those who choose social work as 
their profession can look forward to 
a strenuous life, in which, while they 
will be called upon to give, continu
ously and unreservedly of the best 
that is In them,1 they will find more 
than adequate, compensation in the 
adventure, and the real human satis
faction that the job has to offer.
LAMBERT, 13 GRAD, 
DOES UNIQUE WORK
Stag Brings Alumni 
Together Sat. Night
Program Completed and All 
Set For a Big Time
Tho annuiil get-together of the 
faculty, alumni and students at the 
Science stag, will take place Satur
day night at 7:110 In the Carnegie 
Union. Many Alumni are oxpcotod 
to return to their Alma Mater for 
the night, not only to take part in 
tho premier entertainment of the 
Engineering College but also to re
new old friendships an replenish 
their funds of Carnegie spirit.
The stag this yoar In Intended to 
bo a reunion rather than a strictly 
student event. With this In view,
X* v > % ? *: > v v v < *> c* v v v ?> v 
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Moinbor Fodornl Rooorvo 
Syntom.
Capital.......................*300,000.00
Surptiin.......................*300,000.00
Dopooltn, Ovor - - - $15,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Craig Restaurant
Tho place whoro all the fellow# 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
many new Ideas have been intro
duced and special arrangements have 
boon made to receive "ye olde" Car
nogle men. Tickets are on sale but 
the admission fee will be accepted 
at the door.
A well-roundeo program has been 
prepared to present new and varied 
entertainment for the reunion. 
Speeches by Bob Waddell; assistant 
football coach, and Professor Denni
son of the faculty, presentations by 
the various classes in competition 
for a silver trophy, music by a col
legiate eight, and movies pi the 
football games and of the activities 
of Campus . Week, shown, in order 
that graduates may know what tho 
school has accomplished, aro the high 
lights of the program.
Tho programs In themselves aro of 
a very unusual typo and the favors 
aro in keeping with them, that the 
visiting engineers may have III,ting 
remembrances of tho stag of '20. A 
HupiVor will he served lai,er iu the 
large lining room (cover charges 
are taboo) usually known its the 
('.orninomi.
The wonderful ontortalnihenl;, the 
sentimental effect of living In col 
lege atmosphere again, tho old 
friends not soon for years, the recol
lections of the stags of the days of 
long ago, and contact with collogo 
spirit make It Improbable that, any 
if the graduates will want to miss 
the big affair.
This Year You Casi Go to EUROPE
R
ECENT reductions in Tourist Third Class steamship fares 
. make it possiblefor pcacricaUveveryone to afford a Europ
eantrip. Round trip rates between New Yorkand England are 
$155 toil fi 1\betweenNew York andCherbourg$!62and$175.
Make your reservations now 
for one of these sailings:
S. S. Leviathan . . June 13th 
S. S. Geo. Washington July 8th 
S. S. Republic . . July 15th
Exclusive Tourist Third Class on these ships is an assur
ance of a comfortable and delightful voynge at lowest cost. 
Enjoy light, airy and spotlessly clean staterooms for 2,4 or 6 
persons; attractively appointed public rooms; large, bright 
dining rooms and excellent food. Daily concerts, dances and 
sports on broad, sunny decks contribute to joyous days ot sea.
Ask the United States Lines' representative onyour campus 
for full particulars and illustrated literature, including a 
Princeton Professors account of his trip last summer. Prac
tical itineraries and itemized costs of a variety of European 
tours are contained in this 32-pnge booklet.United States Lines
45 Broadway New York City
Miiiiitcini: OftcincoM forUNITED STATES SHIPPING BOARD
LOCAL OFFICEJENKINS ARCADE
With Underwood Co. as 
Their Efficiency Engineer; 
Does Designing
Mr. E. D. Lambert, a 1913 gradu
ate of Mechanical Engineering from 
the School of Applied Science was 
born In Elmira, N. Y.r in 1887, and 
moved to Syracuse, N, Y.,, In 1888. 
The Syracuse High School prepared 
Mr. Lambert for college, but before 
entering the latter he spent some 
time In working for the Porter-Cable 
Machine Company in 'Syracuse, be
ginning his labors a a floor sweeper, 
but he was not long at" this work, 
In fact; Jn a very short time lie wus 
doing a considerable number of dif
ferent odd jobs about the factory.
Mr, Lambert entered college In 
1909, and graduated in 1913 from the 
School of. Applied Science; having 
taken a course in Mechanical Engi
neering. After graduation the Porter-Cable Machine Company wus 
again the scene of our brother aluminus activities, where he held the 
various positions of Machinist, Fore
man, Designer and finally that of 
Assistant Superintendent.
Shortly after graduation, as often 
happens witli many of our graduates, 
he entered into a partnership, or 
otherwise, was married to Miss Win
ifred Clements of Syracuse, and they 
are at the present time very proud 
parents, having one son named 
Charles Edgar, aged nine, and a 
daughter, Virginia Mable, aged 
seven. Master Charles has already 
started on his career with Carnegie 
as the ultimate goal and Miss Vir
ginia lias not yet decided between 
Margaret Morrison and the School 
of Applied Design.
In 1917, Mr. Lambert heard tho 
"call to the colors" or rather was 
saught by tho Government as mech
anical designer in connection with 
gas masks. * Mr. Lambert worked on 
a new mask which was just perfec
ted a short time prior to the Armis
tice, which was much better than 
tho type with, which all of us are 
familiar. The new mask did not 
contain any nose clip or mouthpiece, 
the mask fitting tho face very snug
ly and breathing, both inhaling and 
exhaling was done In the usual 
natural manner. In all ol! this Gov
ernment work Mr, Lambert was 
working in the capacity of a civilian 
until September, 1918, when he was 
given a captaincy in tho Chemical 
Warfare Servlco.
In January, 1919, Mr, Lambert left 
the sorvic ! and went with t ho Un
derwood Typewriter Company, of 
Hartford, Connecticut, In the capa
city of n Designing Engineer nt 
which work ho Is still employed.
Our elussmato does not doslgn 
typewriters but floes far more inter
esting work designing suitable, spec
ial machinery (for the quicker and 
hotter production ol! typewriter parts.
Among the now machines, for 
which Mr, Lamhort Is responsible a 
few are as follows:
A rubber cylinder grinding niaohlno.
A largo number of'.apodal multidrilling maohlnos of from two to 
lll'ty* four spindles each.
A type rolling machlno, after tho 
adoption of which the force of men 
employed was cut from I HO to 00 in 
this department. In a very general 
way tills machlno forms the typo by 
rolling or a siiueelng method, be
tween two rollers.
Mr. Lamhort spends a great deal 
of bln time going through the vari
ous departments of the typewriter 
factory studying the present method 
of manufacturing and looking over 
the possibility of improving quality 
or decreasing tho cost, of manufac
ture by any means which lie may be 
able to devise.
At the present time Mr. Lambert 
is Secretary of the Hartford Chap
ter of The American Society of Steel 
Treating, as well as being a member 
of the Hartford Engineers Club.
j CLAN NEWS 1 TO GIVEi-i OPENING ADDRESS
MONONGOHELA VALLEY CLAN
The Department of Metallurgy 
and Mining
Annual Mortar Board 
Bridge at Kaufmanns
Will Hold Bridge Saturday, 
Mar. 21; Expect Big Crowd
Carnegie alumni living in the upper 
Monongahela Vailey including Mpnessen, Donora, Charleroi, Belle Ver
non, Ellsworth and Monongahela are 
Invited to attend the party which ha 
been arranged .by the Monongahela 
Valley Clan for Wednesday evening, 
March 18, at 8:30 p. m. This Clan 
get-together will be held at Johnson's 
Ball Room, 31 Sixth street, Monessen, Pa. Every Carnegie man or 
woman is also requested to bring 
along his or her husband, wife or 
friend.
A. varied program will constitute 
the entertainment for Lhe evening. 
Tlieye will be no business, thus giv
ing everyone a full evening to enjoy 
tiie fellowship of the other CarnegieiteB in the district. The evening 
will be topped off with a luncheon 
and everyone anticipating being pres
ent is requested to notify Miss Alice 
Nixon, 58 Schoonmaker avenue, Monessen, at the earliest convenience, so 
that reservations may be made.
Every Monongahela Valley Clan 
member reading this notice is urged 
to "talk it up' with other Carnegie 
men and women with whom lie or 
she comes in contact so that a large 
turnout may be assured.
Terra Cotta Institute Has 
First Session Tuesday 
Lasts Three Days
OKLAHOMA CLAN
On February 21, 1925, ten of the 
Alumni of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, met at the home of 
Gertrude Hartman McEwan, 1704 
,South Utica, and organized a Tulsa 
Carnegie Clan.
The following officers were elected:
Mr. i-J. G. Texter.................President
Mr. Arthur Kerr..........Vice President
Gertrude Hartman McEwan............
.......................... Secretary-Treasurer
'Hildegarde Weedy-----Publicity Agent
Assisted by Messrs. Kerr, Auerswald 
and Heltzel.
Committee on By-Laws.....................
..............Mr. H. G. Texter, chairman
Assisted by Messrs Skyrm and Stark.
The second Saturday of every 
month was chosen us a definite meet
ing night unless otherwise decided. 
The next meeting. Saturday, March 
.14, at the home of the Misses Wee
dy, 1851 East Sixteenth Place.
Mr. Walter Smith, Mechanical En
gineer, '23, of Buffalo, N. Y., was a 
.visitor at the Clan meeting Feb
ruary 21.
Tho membership of the Tulsa Car
nogle Clan at present is a follows:
Auerswald, Howard It., 111(5 South 
Indian avenue., Com. Eng., 14.
Bryce, Richard M., 234 West Elev
enth, Mech. Eng., M)8.
Dean, R. R., 1028-A South Rockford, 21.
II aver stick, Victor W., 1307 South 
lEIwood,' Teach. Indus., *14.
Heltzel, William (J., 720 South El* 
Wood, Eng., '1.8.
Howe, Sum, 1439 North Boston, 
Doslgn, 18.
Kerr, Arthur, 101.7 South Quaker, 
Mech. ling., 20.
McEwan, Gertrude IT,, 1704 South 
Utica, M. M. C.. 10.
Ient.orman, Herman, 1922 East 
.Fourteenth, Mech. Eng., 15.
Skyrm, Harold, Eng., 22.
Stark, Loren !>., 1032 South Utica, 
Life Ins, Salos, '20.
Samon, Goo. L., Box 35, Canoy, 
Kans.
Texter, H. G., 1809 South Boston, 
Eng., 13.
Walker, Al. J.j Tulsa, Science, '22.
Weedy, Hildegarde, 1851 East Six
teenth Place, Arts; *22.
Weedy Vllc.torla. 1851 East Six
teen Hi Place. M. M. C., 24.
Yoder, Leonard A., 1320 North
Boston Place, Science, '21.
Alumni Campus Week 
Committee Appointed
H. C. Brockman, Chairman, 
Holds Meeting to Plan Week
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa e East Liberty
Here is a chance for the alumni 
of Pittsburgh to get together and 
have a jolly reunion over a game of 
cards. The active chapter of mor
tar board is holding its annual bridge 
on Saturday afternoon, March 21, 
1925, at 2:30 p. m., in Kaufmanns 
dining room. The tickets are one 
dallur each. The bridge is neing 
hold in town in order to accommodato the largo nttondanco oxpocted, 
and because it will be easier for 
many alumnao to moot, thoro rather 
than on tho Campus. Dont, lot. this 
opportunity slip by to have a good 
time and soo your old friends from 
Carnogle for they will be thoro. Writo 
to Miss Helen Gillespie, Margaret 
Morrison Carnoglo College, for tickets.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All now and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 Stnto Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
MEN'S STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
The first meeting of the Alumni 
Campus Week Committee was held 
last Thursday evening to begin prep
arations for the arrangement of the 
part the Carnegie grads are to take 
in this year's festivities. The com
mittee is composed of members from 
various classes and constitute a 
quite representative group from the 
alumni. The chairman is H. C. 
Brockman, graduate of the class of 
23, in architecture, the rest of the 
.committee being: Mary D. Heilig, a 
graduate of the class of 24 in gen
eral science, Margaret Morrison; 
Bernice J. Pruge'r, a member of the 
class of 19; Wm. H. Ritts who grad
uated 1 from machine production in 
1-91-2; H. B.| Pearce of the class of 
16, in interior decorations; -H. L. 
Heilman, a graduate of architecture 
in '17; R. Eric Zimmerman, painting 
and illustration, and P. B. Tlllbrook, 
a member of the class of 24 in com
mercial engineering, who Is also a 
member of the general committee.
This group is acting in conjunc
tion with the genoral committee and 
represents the alumni in the plan
ning of the program and the chedulo 
of events. It. will make very definite 
attempts to have the alumni well 
taken euro of both in regard to liv
ing accommodations for the week, 
and to the choosing of the features 
of the program which will be of spe
cial interest to them. During the 
meeting held last Thursday evening 
a number of suggestions were ad
vanced and discussed, but nothing oi 
a definite nature was decided upon 
However, there is plenty of time 
left until the middle of May, anc 
with such an early start there is m 
necessity of rushing final arrange 
ments.
Terra Cotta Institute.
On March 17, 18 and 19 the threeday Terra Cotta Institute will be 
held at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the auspices of 
the National Terra Cotta Society, the 
Department of Architecture of the 
College of Fine Arts, and, the De
partment of Industrial Relations. 
The object of this Institute is to 
bring together the people directly 
related to the terra cotta industry, 
and to impress upon the public what 
is possible in the development of art 
in building construction.
In his book on Color in Archi
tecture," Mr. F. S. Laurence, the 
executive secretary of the National 
Terra Cotta Society says:
The statement that every build
ing erected presents a color scheme 
is something more than the trite ex
pression of an undisputed fact. It 
brings into view the law of associa
tion in mental process which must 
be taken into account in solving the 
color problems of architectural de
sign.
To realize the importance of this 
factor, apply a test easily open to 
the residents of any average Amer
ican city. Stroll through any of the 
streets and note the number of famil
iar buildings which have not hereto
fore registered; on your conscious
ness an impression of any chromatic 
interest. You will be surprised to 
note the gamut of color represented 
in these familiar instances, taking 
the street as a whole. Here are a 
few colors noted in the space of one 
city block in the inidtown business 
section of New York, referring only 
to materials used in construction, 
and awnings, signs and other acces
sories: red, green, blue, yellow, gray, 
brown, purple, black and white, in 
quantity, and in great variety of each 
color.'
The National Terra 0otta Society 
Is making a very comprehensive 
study of art in the terra cotta indus
try, nnd the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, with its Department of 
Architecture, its School of Ceramics, 
its Department of Building Construc
tion, and its College of Fine Arts, 
feels that it can render a public 
sorvice with the aid of the person
nel in the different associations con
cerned.
The institute will consist of lec
tures and demonstartions on terra 
cotta, the ceramics of terra cotta, the 
boat treatment of terra cotta, ils 
color schemes, its construction, etc. 
There will be exhibits on designs 
and drawings in color, terra, cotta in 
panel form, interior decoration, and 
polychrome cornices, which will be 
placed in tho Metropolitan Museum 
this year. A comprehensive exhibit 
of terra cotta specimens will be sup
plied by manufacturers In tho terra, 
cotta, industry.
Those in charge of the institute 
from the College of Fine Arts: Rus
sell Hyde, associate professor of arch
itecture; Frank Hitchens, associate' 
professor of architecture; Walter 
Stulen, instructor of building! con
struction and architecture.
The College of Industries: John T. 
Morris, director; Clifford G. Dunnels, 
head of the department of building 
construction; Charles W. Larkin, 
head instructor in the department of 
masonry department of industrial re
lation; C. B. Connelley, director.
The tentative program is:
F. S. Laurence, Executive Secre
tary. National Terra Cotta Society-'- 
Illustrated Motion Picture Talk on 
Terra Cotta in Architectural Design; 
Its Appropriate .Technique.
I-I. Spurrier of the Northwestern 
Terra Cotta Company'Technical Sub
ject on Ceramics.
Cecil Fidler of the Atlantic Terra 
Cotta CompanyRequirements for 
the Construction of Terra Cotta.
A. H. Sheffield of the Terra Cotta 
Service BureauGeneral Subject on 
Terra Cotta,
William Boyd of Ingham and Boyd, 
Architects, and a member of the 
American Architectural ClubTerra 
Cotta from the General Architectural 
Standpoint.
Victor Rigamont, member of the 
Pittsburgh Architectui al ClubTer
ra Cotta from the Theater Construc
tion Standpoint.
Henry Hornbostel of Palmer & 
Hornbostel, New YorkColor De
sign in Terra Cotta.
Frank Hitchens, Associate Profes
sor of Architecture, Carnegie Insti
tute of TechnologyHistory of Arch 
itectural Terra Gotta,
Scott A. White, Builders Exchange 
Construction of Terra Cotta.
Victor Bleininger of Homer Laugh - 
lin China Company, East Liverpool, 
OhioThe Heat Treatment of Clay,
(By Professor Crabtree, revised' by 
Professor McIntosh.)
Mining and metallurgical indus
tries, complex in their nature, indis
pensable to modern civilization, ever 
increasing in the magnitude and 
variety of their operations, are call
ing for increasing numbers of tech
nically trained, capable, reliable men. 
The mining, smelting and working 
of ores, minerals and metals con
tinue to present new problems, new 
fields of effort, greater demand for 
skill and intelligence, and greater 
opportunities for enjoyable employ
ment.
Such a great industrial district as 
Pittsburgh offers many advantages 
to students in mining and metallurgy 
giving them a chance, not only to 
see the practical operations, but to 
get an insight into the spirit of the 
industries that can be obtained only 
by actual contact with the men en
gaged in them.
The courses of instruction are de
signed to emphasize the scientific 
principles involved, and then to illus
trate their application, both by labor
atory experiments and by observa
tion of actual commercial operations. 
It is realized that the first function 
of the school is to train the stu
dents minds, develop their mental 
powers, and form habits of industry, 
accuracy and dependability. Train
ing Of this kind is obtained through 
the study of chemistry, physics, 
mathematics and mechanics. These 
are fundamental subjects which lay 
the foundation for all lines of en
gineering work and give a training 
which is essential for operating or 
executive work connected In any 
way with modern- industries. A 
reasonable amount of time is spent 
on the distinctively professional sub
jectsmineralogy, geology, mining 
methods and engineering, metallurgy, 
metallography, etc.
j It is realized that some students 
I are better fitted for, or prefer, proj duction, operating or executive work, 
while . others are better suited to 
echnical investigation research or 
engineering. Attempt is made to 
guide the student into the type of 
work for which he is < best fitted, 
and to give him the best preparation 
for that type.
The mining and ore dressing lab
oratories present some very unusual 
features which are used eifectively 
in instruction work. The electric 
furnace laboratory is one of the best 
in American educational institutions. 
The metallurgical and metallography 
laboratories are -well-equipped.
The development of co-operation in 
research work with the United 
States Bureau of Mines, through Re
search Fellowship, in both Mining 
and Metallurgy, is extending the 
scope of the department and placing 
greater facilities within reach of our 
students. Very gratifying results 
have Ibeen achieved by the investiga
tions of mining problems during the 
past five years. This work has 
shown steady development. Indus
trial leaders of the district are 
showing their . sincere appreciation 
of the work through  their active in
terest and co-operation and their 
substantial support. These investi
gations, applied to problems actually 
bearing on industrial operations in 
this district, serve to oring the de
partment into closer contact with 
operating conditions and problems.
Recognizing the desirability of hav
ing advice from experienced and cap
able men in the industries, the De
partment of Mining and Metallurgy 
has been fortunate in securing for 
its two advisory boards more than 
forty of the most prominent officials 
and consulting engineers of the lead
ing mining and metallurgical compa
nies of the State.
Newest Spring Coats
STYLE FOR STYLE, QUALITY FOR QUALITY, AN 
EXTRAORDINARY COAT OFFERING!
$28
You will appreciate their superior design 
when you see them. Small collars, narrow 
tailored shoulders, many with fur borders, fur 
collars, or fur collars and cuffs, also novelty 
buttons, loops and bands contrasting shades.
New colors, both vivid and subdued. Sizes for 
juniors, misses, women and stylish stouts.
MATERIALS:
VELVO-BLOC DEERONA DOWNYWAVE TWILLS KASHONI 
DOWNYWOOL
Frank & SederSecond Floor.
M. M. ALUMNI MUSilCALE
AND TEA WILL BE HELD 
IN M. M. C. C. SAT., MAR. 14
Margaret. Morrison Alumnae Mus
icale and Tea will be held in the 
M. M. Recreation Hall,  Saturday, 
March 14. at 3:00 p. m. Priscilla 
A.llison, 23. Will be hostess, assisted 
>y Salome Stamm. '19: Louise Irvin 
Hirscli, 21; Dorothy Grant Hosford, 
23; Florence Hill. '24.
President Gail Sellers Fettke will 
iour tea. An interesting program, of 
eing arranged and the members- of 
;lie association are urged to come.
REAL i MENAND IBoys
A Neat and Natural 
Hair Comb
This pleasing, refreshing 
liquid tonic keeps the hair 
combed all day. GLO-CO is 
not a mineral oil or grease.
At drag countors and barber shops ovoiywhoro.GLO-CO
(Slox-Comb)
THE ORIGINAL 
LIQUID HAIR DRESS
Send for Sample Bottlo 
Mail coupon today for gener
ous trial bottle. Nornmny Pro
ducts Co., G511 McKinley Ave., Loa 
Angeles, Gal.
Name
Iwiw1
 PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS