VOL. XXI NO. 14
C. OF G. FETES 
TARTAN FOOT
BALL PLAYERS
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF 'TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Carnegie's Heroes Rewardby Local Chamber of .Com
mence at Feast in Bill Penn
DR.BKER SPEAKS
Squ&d Presented With Wrist 
Watch08 As Tokens of 
Win Orar Irish. 
Carnegie's-"'football. squad, 
querors two weeks ago of Notre Dame, National Champlone,1 were banqueted Saturday night at the .William P.enn Hotel b/ t Printers* Council and Recreatl* 
Committee ot the>PlttsbuTgh-Cham- ber. of Commerce. Talks 
given by Doctor Baker, Wally Steffen, and by other notablo< present.
' perhaps the most Interesting, talk was  that delivered by.. Steffen, which, he gave due credit to i 
wonderful team of wonderful n who overcame heavy handicaps, great mental hazard and won from the.. South-Bend .. team, bel' cause they were ready to meet the combination .of ' opportunity and obligation which they laced ot Forbes Field.' Wally also gave an Interesting outline of the Incidents nod events leading up to the Notre Dame gome and be process ot cresting In tbe. minds of tbe Tartans the 
confidence that they were good enough to beat the invading Irish. 
Thle back-stage etory was of'vital Interest to. the 300 men who. bad, 
gathered to do. honor to the speakers proteges.Wally received a wonderful reception when he was Introduced, 
the crowd standing, cheering and applauding" for. several minutes In 
tribut to the man. who bad molded tbe .'machn' that tronnced Notre Dame and surprised the football 
world with tbe greatest dope upset of the recent grid season.. Carnegie was nnder the obliga-i of ^demonstrating thi - football Is. played In Western . Pennsylvania as well as In the east, the middle west and on the Pacific coast, said tbe coacb. "They accepted - that .obllgatlpi Stid'TJieir demonattetRili- cluslve. They also proved: they were S'colch; they wouldn't give up; they played a tight game.*'C ar opening the program which 
followed the dinner, Harry W. Neely, fltet vlcepre?tdeht-of .the
DR. RITTMAN RETURNS 
FROM CALIFORNIA TRIP
During the month of November, Dr. Rlttman, bead of tbe Indus* - trial Engineering Department, 
spent two weeks In California on ' business. He appeared In tbe Los Angeles court In connection. with litigations over-patents, for .the manufacture ot. gasoline. As presi
dent of the Society of Industrial Engineers, Dl-. Rlttman also started the work-of organizing two new cbaptere of that society on -tbe 
Pacific Coast.
Dr.-RUlman Teports the West to 
be very active in "a business way. The Los Angeles district, at least, has more than climate, for .Its. .dally bank clearings amount to thirty millions of dollafB. The people are very optlmlatlc and tbelr' boasting spirit la equal:to. that of any group of college 6tudents. In the middle, of .N<oregb^rJthere;bi '
irning tbla liability ii set Considerable . leeiing . has sprung up between Southern and Northern California' leading to agitation for a separation into two 
states. N
The recent coal conference was carried by the western newspapers', 'but unfortunately, the location was merely given aa - Pittsburgh instead of Carnegie. New 
tralnis . on-. the j trauBContlnental lines.have'cut travel irom'Eaat to West by nine hours, thus adding 
. another business day.
Next Shilling to Feature.
' Articles; by New Writers
The next Shilling," -which will be out sipon. after the.-.Cliyietmas vacation; will run two feature ars ticiee, toy Carolyn Edmundson and MiriainMargolis, on.- the late international Exhibition. There will 
be a sketch entitled "The Hill at Night," by Howard Baer. . The featured short story lqr the Issue, will be "She Knew What She Wanted!,' which Is published 
 anonymously. Margaret. Eckert will have a play called !'Come.dy.,in 
Two Scenes, and Rutli Mohan, a sketcii, entitled "dut oi the Deep,1 -.'Heaven, Trees- and 'The- Price- ' of-WIsdom1- will be tbe books to be reviewed,, and "The Green Hat, ..Young Woodley, arid "Ghosts,' tbe playe to be discussed. ;For poetry,-'there will be Thoughts,", by l^UUe. Mattbewi, - poems' : by .William Mcpermott,- and Chanson ........... It
HARRISBURG,CLAN INVITES 
STUDENTS TO XMAS PARTY.
Tbe Harrisburg Carnegie.CIan ia* 
planning a Christmas party to. be held during the Christmas raceas, lo which all students from tbe 
Harrisbnrg 'district are Invited.' Tbls year they bave planned, for a dinner dance to, be  held t Crav- ere, North Second street. Harrisburg, for which tbe assessment will be $3.60 per couple- for students and *6.50 per. couple foi 
Monday, De*'The date )cember 27.
# This ia, the 'third year that? the 
Harrisburg Clan- has : held.  a Christmas party and Ito appearance on their'^endar again this year is indication of the success of fomer affaire. BE,THERE.- For further Information get In 
touch, with Richie Lawrie, care of Lawrie & Green, Architects, Harrisburg, Pa; .DONT FORGETMonday, Di 
i, Harrlsburicember 27, at Cra
PLEBES AVERAGE 
3.262 P.Q.PERUN1T
Freshmen Ratings at MidSemester Higher Than 
Last Years Class
LOCKWOOD HIGHEST
The isuits shown by the mid- semester rating In the Engineering 
and Industries sections indicates that ' this year's freshman class 
hos a slightly higher standing than last years class had at this time. X represents tbe number of units each student carries,'and 3X P. Qs. indicate on average ofD. The
2,08b X. while the average of this year ig 3.262 X. ...
Dean lhrlg, while speaking to tho Plebe Assembly, sold that the ihman class this year had a higher academic- standing than ) of'29-bd last year. He urged the' class on to higher stand-' ardeiiof stttdy, .. .. ..~ie<Vblgest" freshman was an- ular student, Robert Lcck- il, with 29B P. Qs. I^ckwood one of the four scholarships aed by. the Westlnghouse Elec- and Manufacturing Company. Tbe second highest man wag a rg
ler student- Leo Kasebagen," of iction F, with. 294 points.*  Kasehagen; won the . cup presented by Major ,' Taylor -. ,to the freshman: iS7 mang 1 the. highest score'In  rifle match. Another momlx.r of F, Robert H. Johnson, was the third highest with 286' P. Q's.
The next two highest were tied with a rating of 272> points each. These students -were Robert Goeh- ring'of section O and MOrinan 
Lindsay of section F. Th reining students having more than 
(Continued on Page Three.)
ACTIVITIES BOARD TO 
MEET WITH COUNCIL
To Meet Tonight To Discuss 
Aotivities System.
e.. Student, .Cpuqcll ..bad, a. lengthy session lest Tuesday evening, Dec. 7, Tfie budgets for the, ball and. the Mens Junior Prom, which bad 'been approved by the Budget Committee, were commended to the Council by Clarence Udd and approved] .The previously tabled question of changing tbe representation on Council came up in connection with , revision of the constitution. 
Another, heated discussion ensued whether or not the treasurers 
fiould be chosen on a basis of popularly or/accounting: ability. It .74St.finally i-declded rtn leave th sr as.lt now stands, on a popularity- basis, since the assistant eaeurera received a year's training before one of them is.elected Council treasurer for th following The : following changes In Article II, dealing with represen- lon, were then approved: the noval of the clause 'providing (Continued on'Page Three.)
Y.W.C.A.--Social Workers 
Give. Christmas Programs
a setting of a huge, romantic t. and. with the social work departmeut behind them to a man, Junior social-workers are all ae for the party they are gly> itjg their clubgiris in, theRscrea- tlon Hall,'Wednesday evening, the flfteentbi. from 7:30 to 10 p, ni. 
Each year much time and effort Is.the j! this; have surprises a-plenty ; Xhe- form-' of a uar- studed sky, with akludly beatnik m'cov* huge lighted tree'and iany;''sina]]er frees In the windows ad sround,tbe posts. Th guests, 
ill Include girls' from kingeiey. ad Heinz- Houses,' and tlie usky. orphanage. .Dr. Baker, .Mlas^BredV Mias Green, fauilty, ot' the depart-' ud. th>i studeuts In th sbV lal xwork course. The'evening will be full of activity and enioyL-^there \y11l .-.be competitive ss, a reading hy -candleilgbt; pf Lady Grsgorya play,'.The' Travet refreshme^ta and ndy and favpre' dl6trlbuted.-by th' d: 
prinints w'n anta. Claus,' Music;be furnished b. stell Safler 
from'th Music Department; .All in all tha outlk la (tor a , happy Oontlnned-n P>g.T}re.)
ASSEMBLY IN 
MUSIC HALL AT 
ELEVEN-THIRTY
"Red Arrow Quartette, of 
P e n n sy 1 y ani a Raitfbad, 
Will Give Eight Nuznbers
ALPHA TU O CALL
fileahsnhip la Based Vpoo 
Scholanhip, Activities, 
Leadership.
The P. R. R- Red Arrow Quartet will Bing a nUmber of very pleasing songs at General Assem*; bly In the Musla Hall .today. Their program Is, in brief:
: I.'i"Rd' Arrow Medley. ar* Tanged-by WaltOT^Poynta.* 2. Susanna,'by Stephen Foster.-3. Jerusalem Mornings byOHara. 4. "Open the Gates of GIory, by Glevel.5. "Trovlln," by Goodwin.ne gia's' Harmony," by OHara.7. Duet, Little Town ' in Old County Down, sung by Clbband
by- Bcholler.. Walter Poyntz, a student - in music In tbe Arts School, arranged the.clever melody which the quartet will ubo as their opening number. Poyntz has played tbe piano at nearly all the assemblies1 this, year. His medley- and accompaniment  for tho quartet which be will play today Is tho beBt work be has done this season, E, P. Byers, tenor. Is a new man In the quartol; the others; Glbb, Schafer and Scholler have been heard before on the compus.The Alpha Tau honorary will make -s annual , cull today at tbe General Assembly. Alpha Tau Is nn honorary whlcb chooses Its
there Is no other honorary, in the ccuntry of the same nature. No other school has a department 
whlcb corresponds to our own College of Industries. Membership in the Alpha Tau.id based upon scholarship, activities and leadership. Every - man In - Industries cherishes the hope of making this honorary. The present members
B. Lyricli, S, A. McMllUon, J.-Mueller, H. Williams, and C. Udd.The novel program at the Assembly toddy Is-but-an Instance In the attempt of the Student C<
Mora tbrn 400 students have ap
plied for work during tho Christ* 
mas '.vacation' tbrough tbe . Student 
Placement - Bureau. .Tbls number 
.includes 117 young -womsn. almost all of them have asked for salqp* rork. Of the 285 young men de-. Irlng to be located. 130 are seeking jobs as postofbee helpers. -B0 salesmen, 95 as nllwoy - mall rkerB. 2 ae waiters at cluW ! hotels, and SO - have applied for other employment' :'-vi number of students who wlll be placed by tbe bureau ' cannot yet be determined. Tbe rail* 9 moll houses are sure to use
Thistle Opens Dollar 
Campaign Tomorrow
Preliminary Subscription 
Receipts For Thistle on - 
Sale Wed. 15th ;
START NEW PLAN
i tble :mbllebigger and belter - than ever be- rore. 'That they' are.succeeding in this attempt Is demonstrated by the Increased attendance at these monthly got-togethere.Students tblB year have been very conelsteut In turning out for the General Assemblies. Programs for the ensuing monthly gatherlngs are to be equally as InterestJunior Prom Tea 
Dance Thurs. at 4:30
The first of the two Junior Pram a. dances Is to be held this Thursday .afternoon - In the Union at 4:30, with one of the finest orchestras in' the Pittsburgh district 
furnlshlrg the music. Ae usual, the charge will be but twenty-live cents for the men, while the girls will be Admitted free. It will be wetl to remoortier that this wi]l. be
) last tVO dani tbempus
before the two weeks Christm vacation which str.l next week.An added attraction at the danc this week will be tbe free dletr button of two preliminary ticket to the 1 will eta Plebe!) to nttend that famed social event pf the third year men. The tickets will be given by chance; air ot the afternoon's guests being given a numbered tag and the lucky numbers being drawn by lot Tuesday' evening two persons on 'thia- cimfms who had not Ite'tidd' 
going' to the Prom will . realize that they bold ' stick  privilege; and Fate-ltself.wlU determine their Identity that afternoon.Tbe ticket sales for tbe .Prom, arted Bfosday of tbis week unir the guidance of the throe Junior class , commltteea.. Dun McClure^ Crawford, J.- Horner, J. Graham and il. Stump form the Arta school sales g^oup; J. B. i'" iw,Clyde^. McKee and. 
John Brooks ar In charge of the, Industrie's distribution; while Don 
Callen-.-bj appointed. W. Sherman, R. K. Foilansbe and D. Putt to handle, the wcrk in'the College'of 
Engineering. McClurithalwillj duty, in the Arts Foyer every at.noop to supply the demand for tlckets there, if lfl understood that  the other two committee? are planning to canvass^ the nienii bers ot . thplr respective claaBeB. The; general s. cpmmittee' for:'the. 
Prom has declared -. fbat ttio .pre- Ilminnry ticket.^ eple ; of red . tags will  pratically determine the '-"ei- tent to' which tbe. Prom plaiis wiU be.develppod.; aa.the definite, buid*^ qpt yrtli: be iaed. oil- thow flrst-.irfr'
(Contloqed os Pago Poor.).,.
400 Students Apply For'Xmas 
Work Thru; Placement Bureau
Composite 1925 Ghnstms 
Earnings Total to $7,50Q
Tomorrow^- a one. dollar, deposit will obtain a preliminary subscription receipt for the 1027. Thistle, Tbe buBlneBS etotr of the Yearbook. 
dOElgnlng to lessen- the monetary- irplexltles of the undergrade, ive Instituted the; "Dollar S^ib- srintlon Plan," whose prepa; 
only .order tbe exact numben if subBcrlpUon copies froim the lublishers, have conceived of this ioa to aid the undergrads with lte wo-fold- purpose,, of Insuring the purchaser a copy of the Yearbook; and delaying the final payment of tfie' book- when It is receltad/e entire slaff of Thistle sales: will be stationed'In the vart; tialle on the campus, ready to carry out tbe Dollar Subscription 
Ian to every detail- The sales staff Is following the ecedent of. tbe last years organization by ordering books tbat have -been bought' through subscriptions, s new plan will thus enable a lent to place, his name on the 
(Continued on Page Four.)
CHRISTMAS ISSUE OF . 
THE PUPPET OUT SOON
Issue. of tbe Puppet will be a big Christmas and-Holi
day Number that you-will be proud ome to the folks, It appearance Tuesday,14; Watch for it. and ur coupons. Details are being kept sccret as present, but. t to say tbat it will be than usual with-the Carnegie brand of . huTppr. . and what '.n one desire?' Further- will be fairly reeking with the Chrletmae spirit, so as to-con:e aa ever, en appropriate and inable giftea.Bullinger Is making quite ccess of his new, column in which -he discusses 'everything tbe mud on tbe Cut to the dormitory Derbies.You really; cant  afford to miss the Cbrtetmas and Holiday Nua- in Addition to a number ot fascinating cuts, it will con- resume or the best; Jokes from- the humorous' periodicals' ot 3st*. schools In the country. Those who buy one will see 
(Continued . on Page Three.) '
Thei. MorL is glv-inR ltselt a pavty- tlis evening of December IQ . In the Itccrealion 
Hall and - Senior Science. Room. This, jiarty, .is an annual Christmas affair'where Ute: faculty, and stu- me together ior jolllfica-. tlon. ' The scientista will lise for- ist decorations from Lhe social vorkcrs pairty, but ..yiitb ; all ; their fic cunning It.ia bardito preAnno Milligan, in clicrge of. the affair,, v promises, much fun with such' featupea as stutits by' faculty, Sopbomorp:';j^nlors nod. Seniors; lively games' aDd^ifts:.')i(strlhuted- by San'tu. Claus,. , wbo . vaabooked head, for/appearance In perepn ion tbla pixasion of .ioyrmaklng. The mitt^e ia cbarge js /composed 
of .Haeel Mathis. Anne .UUIIgan. Margaret Sprinkle, Virginia . Wallis sand Helenj Brtgbt ) 
the . calle for salesmen apa si
proslmately $2.100 during the' 
month of;Docember- This amount represents the - earnlngB of 61 jobs.: Tbe men filled 466 jobs and earned *B,624.S6. These . totals, although for the month of December.  are practically the amounts earned by Chrlstmaa vacation workers, for they do not contain the earnings nmde by tbose students who have permanent positions.The average earning ly $25 lor one week, or $50 for two weeks. Most of the jobs ore for one week; the week proceeding Christmas Day. Tho highest earnings for two '.weeks are about $125. Tho men working at tbe railway mall bouses average $65 for tbe two weoks. The poatofflce helpers are paid 0 cents per hour.
Tbe Bureau la glad to locate jobs - for students. Its services are free. It only asks that those desiring work come to the office, and report promptly the amount they have earned.
Rushing is Discussed 
At Inter-Frat Meeting
The pros and CDnB of 'delayed 
rushing fs It Is practiced on tbls 
campus, formed the buik of tbe dieusslon of the Inter-fratdrnlty 
Council meeting last Saturday 
morning. It was an ..important 
meeting, just at the eve of the acCeptance of bids, and although lmportant- le&ueB ;.were in the 'aJr, 
everyone was sitting light one 
.might say,
,* Chairman Glance- of the Investigation Committee, presented three cases of fraternities that had been reported as being indiscreet In the 'matter of prellmJrife'ry rubbing; However, a lack of dlecusslon of these cases labeled them as too un> important' for consideration.
Delayed rushing, It' was pointed out, may quite likely be concluded ae the cause of the high mid-summer'grades this year.
Statistics for the mid-year Freshmen grades show that the class of 1930 have a, higher standing than tbat of previous years. A comparison of this years Freshman claim ^llh that of -laat year shows tbe following:3026-26: 274 Freshmen carrieda tour of 16,2?& .tnlta, earning a 
total of 42,660 quality points. Ratio 2,001.1826-27: ?85 Freshment carried &j total of 15,9613 Units, earnjng a total of 62,06! quality points. Ratio 3.282. 'The irregular Freshmen are no.t- Included in this report. 'Dr. Ihrig, Dean of Freshmen, 
Continued on Page Three)
M. M. Color Assembly 
Held Last Tue6, Noon
The S'econd Annual Color Day Assembly was. held last Tuesday, Dec. 7, in Margaret Morrison, and on every Plebe who had; success
fully passed the testa given by the various -M. M. organizations, wern pinned, Ihe black and gold colors of the Freshman CIa6s. The colors are alwflys tboge of tbe rccont Senior Class which they bestow upon the Incoming Freshman Ciass
 Deati Breed spoke  on Crirncglo traditions, especially those of Margoret Morrison, and what they mean to every Carnegie .girl. The pr<isldent n ibe Junior Class pre- aented the president of the Fresh
man Claea with a bouquet of How- ers. The colors were then pinned on the Frodhman by . tlie Sophp- ,more'x Junior and Senior presidents and the officers of'the organizations, who cave th quiz. Th< president of' tbe Freshman Class 
pinned: the colors on 'MIsi Bonnell. who was recently elocted Clasa Adyiccr. Color Day is becomlug a tradition In' Margaret Morrison; and. It should .be encouraged, for St. tenches .tbe. Plebci- something about . ihe organizations ' which they will .ho. rminlug .In a few
. :The Stringers, a pdpuiar Margaret Morrison musical organization, wll. make its first, public appearance In .the*. Eastern Star Temple,. East  Liberty, on ^.Wednesday, Dpwmher IK,- 1826; '. They wllfiirp. vide An .eatertalament.- consisting ot-popular aonge. at a Christmas 
party
PROFS. STUNTS 
WILL FEATURE 
SCIENCE STAG
Chairman F. Swaile Will 
Announce All Speakers and 
Stunts Soon After. Recess
PRICE FIFTY CENTS
AI Minatti is Dark Horae of 
Animal Stunt Given 
By, AlvmuL
-The fnrfamed Faculty Stunt of 
the annusi stlence Staff, will tbls year even exceed Its predecessors In Its mirth-provoking qualities 
and advancerumore bave it that tbls particular eyent ^11] go far toward cieimlag- the: honors -ae tbe- best Btunt ot tbe evening at Lbe on- glneor smoker on January 16. Postponed, one month because of conflict'with the-fraternity rushing period as originally scheduled, the 
Stag committees bave had additional. time in which to prepare the program of this esclusive College of Engineering event, and regular meetings have resulted In the present advanced stato of the plans. The work .la now-woll outlined and Cbairm&n Swaile Is confident that the Science mon are. in for noother real treat this year.' The stunt or the Engineer faoul- ty this year,Ib being developed under the guidance of Professor George MoC. Porter of the Depart* ment of Electrical Engineering. Professor Porte;- \vas but recently appointed to this post by Director Mott, and there is no doubt but that the stunt will be decidedly novol and highly 'entertaining, aa be'has held the chalrinau's posi.tlon
Whether the faculty will present a. Gilbert and Sullivan operetta or limit themselves to a light rendition of Foust is' yet to be. seen, tout a musical production of some nature.' has been promised. Science men will not forget the amusing Gathering of. tbe Nule.', tbat was presented last yoar, end Professor Porter hae assured the general committee that no less* hilarious feature will be even con* sldered.
W. F. Simpson., who Is In charge .Qf tho ticket sales for.tbe Qtag bae iii^nged_rr'the'cnlbprds''to<go' on sale Immediately following the CbrlalmaB vacation.. The price will likely be tho same as that.of last year50 centsand will. Include all the smokos and the eats and everything on the schedule. As usual, a lunch wlll.be provided in tho Union following th other main events of the eventng.Chairman -Swaile will  be prepared ;to announce th speakers and the general program by the end of the corning .recess period. The class stunts are reported as progressing nlccly (?) and a capable crew of Impartial judges are being chosen to eetect the winner of the contests. Ae in previous 
Continued op Page Three)
DRAMA CONFERENCE 
AT YALE FEB. 11, 12
The committee appointed to prepare for the next Drama Conler- ence held its first session In New York; City last week. President Baker presiding. It was definitely
George Baker, of Yale, and will bo published later.- -:Those present at the committee meeting were Preeldent Thomas S. Baker, Carnegie Institute of Technology; Mr. Brock Pemberton, of New York; Professor. George P, Baker, Yale.University; Dr..Arthur. H. Quinn, University of Pennsylvania,- and Dr. A. Marion Tucker, Polytechnic Institute. - Various suggestions were brought before tlie meeting in which tbe program was mapped out. The first session of.the institute will be devoted to addroBseB by some of the Important - figures in American  drama c|rp!es.. President.Ang)e ,and. Dean Week of, the Art Department, Yale .University, and Professor George Baker *111. be among !lie speakers. at . tile first session. : Round table discussions will take up the greater - part of. die . remaining time.;The subjects -for these rils. (Continued on Page Three.)
i dance iof the junior - Prom. Commllttee will be held In . the Union Thurs
day, December'-. 10, from 4:80 to 6:00. In' connection with tbls dance two Prom advance tickets will chanced off. A  number will be on osch Utfcet and a draw will be bold. The two winner* will aach receive an advanced prom ticket which has  faco value of a dollar and a half.
Any, .Sophomore or - PVeshmnn winning these tickets wlUbo given the privilege of attending the Prom at a price of the'admiseton price of the Prom minus tbe face Value 
of the ticket. Any one is eligible to use-these tickets. The orchestra baa not . been doclded upon as yot.'but good 'miielo-le-'guaranteed. Tho price ot edmleslon Is Uie same os at prevlos tea dances.
WLmm
OBBimB OHA>ML
THUMDAT HOOK 
THZATES
TUESDAY, PECEMBER 14, 1926 .
FRATERNITIES u.. pi p(j OVER 
160 NEW MEN
CHAPEL SERVICES 
THURS. AT 12:50
Entire Pi-og^am of Last 
Chapel Consists ofXmas 
' Carols land Songs
G. KEEBLE DIRECTS
The last Chnpel service before Christmas will-be held-in the Little Theater of the Arts S'ehool, from 12:50 to l.3C^ p. m. Thursday, December 16, 1926. For. tbls chapel a special program has. been provided undor the direction of 
acting. Doan Keeble, profossor of
Christmas The program ts as follows: 'Adbste "Arieles.... .John Rending
"As with gladneBS men of bid..
Conrad Koohor. Lo how a rose eer blooming". .
. .A* Praeto.ri.usIt came .upon, a midnight clear."- -
.................................. Sears'The Throe KlngB1*.Peter Cpriiollua (EDInore Steensou and/ Double > Chorus,)
.God ro&t you merry gentlomen. 
...V-'V-.-.-.'-...... Traditional"Hurk. the herald angels, sing",- .
MendelsBohn ''9llon; night, holy night i. Grubor ' Organ -^osliudei . .. .. *>>
j.i-L'^ftlhew-Frey.'OrgaMBV;-;: Chester Wallace,' of tlie drama' department, will road a Chrlstmaa story, from1 theBlble.Thio' is an ' oxceptlonaUy fine program, and it Is the hooe of all concerned that-evory student will put forth a special effort to be present. Tbe doors wDl be open at' 12:30 aa uaunj.'
REPORTS DISCUSSED 
BY STUDENT COUNCIL
tlie following resulta:]. Arts.
Preeldent ......Thomas L. TurnerVice President... .Ernestine Jaffa Treasurer;:;';-; .. . ..William Brown Secretary..;..Fay;E; Kent 
Seuate I^presentatiye.Betsy.Brplda _ v'.Maqjar* Mprrfspn'.:--;. President : .. . . .Isobel  SheppardVice .President. Jii......
,..'.. .Mary  Margnret Schaofter 
Secretary v.i.> AjijnabeV; Wright Treaaiirer.;. . .;., . Loretta O'Toole 
Senato Reproeentaiive. . Mary Hall Social -Chalrman.Margaret,.Weiner Science and . Industries.' Presldontr .......Morgan. B; -MazeVice PrealfieDt..,Thomas:  Brown Secretary Wm. A. Anderson 
Treasurer , Joseph Herbat
The .budgets for. the Arts 
and .the Mens Junior Promwere presented to the. Council -by the Budget Committee.., Tbeae. were recommended1 to the Connell .by
of changing tbe roprese'ntallon
tho Council came-up in connectionwith the revision of oertaln articles ot the constitution. Another heated discussion arose  as to whether or not the treasurer of the Council should bo chosen wholly 
basis .of popularity or accord5 it Umely;elect the treasurer on a popularity basis, since., tbe. assistant, treasurers receive a year's training, before ope of them |a elected,' Council treasurer for the year to follow. The-following changes in Article II of the ConetUutlon, dealtngwltb
the eleglbl|lty of representation/at. the.Councll were then reed and apr
Interfraternity Basketball 
Games to Start in Jan.
Indications point to an, unusually successful season for the In- terfraternlty Basketball ..League.
with th/league officers is'a nec- eapory focttr tO' make.. the: .1920* 1927 season, the .best: .iutrfrateiv 
nity basketball Boasoii' ever; had :at Carnegie/At th last metlng of te lge the-'Idea. pf  having ,'fr>^'sections' yi pla. of  three :ections.t'as -i ,previo8ea6on,ai)d' of'.deciding the championship by; an ; elimina-, tln series -was dlBCU.ssed. .''The pre3ldept' .'pf.._the : league ; jfr Fi71fB^ted;tht'-tbe lagii wiU b^ ^nr;to[^cUpn.eltlier\th'e^^^ fir.8t;r aec^nd.^eef.-follpwlngth^^as h.lld period. , v-I ; Th'; lgu ^schedule Is^iiowi jbeT 
ing *rronjBed.nd ;wheiii completed! Will-be .'published iin the : Tartan: The chedfjle I being arranged
The Most Strenuous Rush
ing Season in Carnegies 
History Ended Sun. Noon
RUSHEES CHOOSE
Delayed Bushing Has Its Bis* 
od?antoge& As Well As 
. Its Advantages.
What ..was probably, one. of the most strenuous rushing seasons la the hlatoryof; the nineleon Carae-. glo fraternities ended at midnight - 
last Saturday. After, two vory lull weeks ' of smoke;' dances; bay-: rides, etag parties of various kinds, an abundance; o! free mealB. Oie- ater parties and oU the resti ap- proxlmately two' hundred weary 
and worn Freshman .were given brief twelve .hours to make a'definite and atMmportunt choic of their' -prospoctive fraternity; had they not dono bo before. By special ac-/ tlon of the interfraternlty Council,: the zero hour", on Sunday bad. been changed from twelve to one oclock, aud'few were the^Ptebos who wero up and about much'be* - fore thUt time.'
. -Noon on'Siinday, liowover, found anxious and expeitaut fraternity;. men qulbtly talking In 'groups within their respective walls, anil atmosphere ot'-roslralnt was aed, rather than folt, as the hour of one' opproacho'd; .' A "lev/ gathered at windows, many thronged about .the doors, .while others braved -tho - ohlU air am)' filled tbe. porcheswaiting. ' Ono 
oclook came, and the men loft the. dorms, singly and in small groupB, - went' to the houses of' lhelr' oholce, .Happy meetings, congrat-. wlallonp. and genoral llght-h'earted- was punctuated only by keen, disappointment os some were seen pass-on to othor abodes, tbere- lo be as .warmly .-welcomed by,'' fraternity men. Tho eholco hail been made.-
By Sunday evening a total of one; hundred and seventy rusbees,bai: been pledped by the' nineteen roc-i' ognhed fratern Itlee on' the cam pus. . Many of the .-groups, expected, that Blight incrcasea . wouid .be made to., their lhdlvl(\ial) .lotiUB' :Wltbia; t\7eal>ifpt|h ;hPur8i:>:4n &v-'. . eragb of 8.42 was the.pledglng rate for the' fratornltlea, with the number fluctuating t'rozQ tivo: to six-'
The. following, fraternities, as listed in the' Student Handbook, an-.- lounced the-following names as hOBO 'of men pledged prior .'to six - - 'clock Sunday evening:'PHI SIGMA KAPPAJ.. I*ster,  R. Davis, '-C. Shaw, C. Gabler, J. Hosier, :G. Warner- ;PI KAPPA ALtPHAZachnraon, Wilkins, Swem, Harblson. ; 
:,SIOMA,ALPHA EPSILON  J* lilorley, B. Langfltt, W. Gary, L. Dunn, Ethridge, C.;- McMutn. IU. Taylop.o tbl.quC PHI EPSILON G. Shniutz, T. Shlols, , C. Kenny, "W. Baldwin, H, White, -T.- Daugherty
SIGIAI. UٗF. ' lires,-K.  ^iowe, ' W. Leleir, J. Ward, R; Slmth, C. Oimpbeli; R Non-ls, B. Finnle. J. Bair, M. - Mortimer,': T.' McCombs J/ Stln, G. Wile; R. Bowman.THKTA XI  C. Suoseerolt, C. Seleam, H. Dowhower. J. BoEtl, W. Edwards, H. Crlstdti' M.'Dinger; 
H. But2. WOODLA.WN CLUBP. Droste,- JL .Goehriog, B. Maze, 9. IVarner,R. McLeod, H. - Lundberg, 'R, Kam- bach,;, c. ; "Wapgeman.' ;S, ; Holver*: Stott.and Nal- d,swkNeeDmDh ' 
ALPHA SIGMA! PHI-4-R. DaunT, GlbeoD, Mlrvosh, Canning, Kocher> H. Schaffer, Woodruff, E. Stone, W, Stone,... posing,-Greve, W, El Woods.ALPHA TAU OMEGAI. Wag- r, ' Seeley, . J. ; L> Ralston, Bell, McKaever','Becker.BETA SIGMA RHOL. Cohn, H. Cohen, j, Berman,' H. Levinson,5. Kabakov; J. Carpe,'M;VBUstAn. BETTA THETA PiL. Garber, D,Snodgrafis, C. ' Bowers, J. Snyder,C. Glahart. N. Gabriel, G. LBu- lltllr, J. Herbst, C. . Young, ; upe 
Brown, W. Bowaer, D.- Shfer, G: Hutchinson, Q. McKinley.:- i ' DELTA ifUC. Mllier. C. Cabla,O. Sblndel, -IU: Edgett, H. Lind- qisi, E. Ulliim, J. Wilhelm, R. Crp; .F;..'lls,^^ E."Jonsi-Hi-Qur-' tier,- W.: Blgort;'. DICLTA. PH1. DELTAC.. Mat|i- ias,, Spid, Klempay, Lutton,DELTA TAU .DELTACl. Item* ey, .W. McFarland,.- j. Aehbaugi), .--Conrad, II,-:Crist, W. .McDermott, W.; Hodg, H. Cemmel, R. GIlliland. P. ^TiIteiiead, D. Beggs, W;' Wne. : ;; DELTA UPSILONJ. Muzik,- F. . Sangeter, H. Alden, ; ;M. flUler,. C. Poqnders, W.' Mill Iron; D. Mltcliell;6, ,Stoody, H.-Mppdy, W.' Taseyl 'P.-R-autlgan. : V-  'C "q11q tal.qDSC cimijitti, ;$Y:;Wrl^S^^R, ^^cC^ii^n./M.HaVfiBi'-G. Kepnedyi p.^i^silp^W.':.ckeii ^ Freeliefer, : B. ..Thompson',-.'j.' !GrItV'': flgi8r^:'Hag; V.: Covert. E. 'HaVr)'. !W:''.te:fScbmidt^^C>^Mynrd^^ Njinnoliy;'".J' V.:. J?; ' V- YKApPA" SIGMA RHOCi Maiv : iuard't/vE,- Stiints;j.;P, :.Lo wman,\''Hi J? ;
iPHl^ltAPPA-rrW.'.^Heiid^rionivilv^:; Morbito,A-lii|ler.W.^Worland.:Jf McGraj,'H.^termanvIvO man T Cooaei&y J Sprigfa R. . 
Talbort M Klooko A Latgt J Soehr L. Holveck. 4

---------------------------------------------------

PACI TWOt.'* 9 *TUgftOAY, DECEMBER 14. 1|
Whea Yen Face the Batne*s World
When your seheol life Is over 'and you face -the business world, you will appreciate the bank connections that' you 'form today.  The' experience In financial matter which a 'bank affords - will
- Regardless of tho s)*e of 'your-account, you will find here a genuine aptrt of serv- ...Ico In' the conduct of your fl- nanclal ;affalrs.. Wo Invite  our- considerate
feltonM)____Pittsbug^h, Pa.ilf !
.TUgf
. Christmas j 
At reaaDBble .'the' home tab .FeBtivltlea
Service
and Holidays
supply " allday moblethe'liome table and Holiday . isonable delicious Goodies, and NoveltiesFruit Cake, Plum Pudding, 
Candies.. Pies, Bread, Bis
cuits, Pastries, Ice Creams 
and- IcesIdeally made of 
quality .materials.
Motpr.-deiivory twJce dally.
Weddings 
a Specialty
^CATERING CO 
Pittsburgh
Elliotts 
Two Stores 
Headquarters 
For Practical 
Gift Things
StoreB Useful Qlft articles them entertaining in
Field Glasses
MlcroscopVs Everything Optical - Technlbal Books /Engineers' Supplies Architects Supplies Dcayylng .Materials Cameras and Supplies Movie Cameras and  Projectors Film Developing ^Artists Materials Art ClassesLessons
ALUMNI PA GE
ALUMNI INVITED 
TO SCIENCE STAG
Annual Engineering Revel 
To Feature Faculty 
Stunt
DATE JANUARY 15
All you Science alumni, do you 
remember the wonderful lime .you 
bad each year atthe Science stag' 
Of course you do. Well, how about 
coming back and Joining us thi 
year at the annual affair in tb 
Union, on.January 15?
' One or th -features or tbls year' 
stag as In previous years Will' be 
the, faculty stunt, whlcb always 
>rov0B a big success. Everyone, 
md especially the. freshmen, enjoy 
iseing the facility In Us less aus
tere aspect. The stag will also 
give the alumni an opportunity to 
ot all-tbelr old faculty friends, 
e faculty stunt is in the hands 
ProfeBsor George Porter of the 
Electrical Engineering faculty,. 
) bas held the same post in
he class stunts are being 
-Iced out, and the major part of 
program will probably be an
nounced by Chairman Swaile short
ly after the Christmas vocatlo 
rlodi
Of course eats will tom a tractive feature of tbe program as , the past, as well bb smokes. 
The tickets will probably go shortly after the vacation will be fifty centB.
Don't forget the date. January , we'll be looklag for you at the :lence stag in tbe Union.
rlod.
fountain pen service by call- t the branch store of Singer and Gift Shop, No. 3941 Porbee street, Schenley Apartmi block, or the Main Store In Je
SUTLER'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET  We Deliver All Orders.J. O. BAKER, Manager Mayflower 7644
Fitzsimmons
Restaurant
120 OAKLAND AVE.
Special Meals and 
Rates to Students
4605 FORBES ST. (Near Craig)
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of
Advanced, > Saturday Private, lessons eiMayflovby hp^oitnient.
Mayflower 7210 
MEN'S WEAR
FLOYD 1. JACOBS
3806y2 FORBES STREET 
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa
 Around the Corner from 
Forbes Field
Hardware Faints Electrical Supplies
OAKLAND HARDWARE CO.
IROQUOIS3606 FORBES STREET.
tOAY,DOEC MDt BRY OY1 4DBRY
.Mens, $6.00Color: (Jjrey.
Womens, $6.50r-Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and red.Auf hammer and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE
IrUelligenceTest ^
.' ln3ructr-^"Life Insurance? 
The Class (it EM, Who ut beridi
"John Hancodc"
"CUis dismissed. Your I. Q. is 130*
FOR YOUR NEXT
FORMAL AFFAIR
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
TH LADDER
- M/00 Charlotte Drake, a grad' 
uate of Margaret Morrison College, 
and a resident; of Httabiugb,' re
cently .joined the staff of 
Georgetown Club'in Wilkes-Barre, 
Pa,, whieb'is one of the agencies 
belonging to tl^e Community Wel
fare Federation. Miss I>rake, since 
hor graduation from Carnegie.has 
been employed in Qlrl Scout work, 
having been regional director of 
Che Allegheny County Girl. Scout 
cnmp.ciurlng tbe present sum 
Previous to this ehe spont f 
time aB a Tesldent worker at King* 
ley House, one ot the largest 
tlement bouses in Pitsburgh. At 
Georgetown Club, M16B Drake will 
charge of the work sjnong tho 
girls'who attend, Including handi
craft, sewing, cooking and club 
' Among tbe clubs are a troop ot Glri Scouts, one of Girl 
eserves and one of Brownies, 
Dusgsters or pre-scout, age. This 
teans tbat girls of ail ages are 
[ven the sort of recreation they 
desire, as the Girl Reserves of the 
consist of. an older group 
than the scouts, sucb as girls in 
try who have just entered the 
business world. Miss D>ake will 
take her residence at Georgetown 
Club' and will devote, her entire 
to her new work.
10 Comee B. Van Norman, at 
time a student at Margctret. 
Morrison, is now ' Instructor 
Hygiene and Physical Educatii for. the Women's Division at Colby College in Portland, 'Maine. Since ig Margaret Morrison. Miss Van Norman has held the impor- positions of Director of Physl* Education at Young Womens Christian Association. Pittsburgh; Winchester School, Pittsburgh ; Highland School, Mary C. Wheeler School, Providence. R. I., until when Bhe took up ber pres- iuties at Colby.
POSTAL TELEGRAM
lladelphla Clan ChrJetmoB pai eduesd&y, December 29, at Ai cadia Cafe, Philadelphia. Distt-ic students and Alumni Invited ei large to good, article. Tartan c 14th.Signed,GILMORE TILLBROOK.
INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
The Xollowing letter, taken ft' Emplyeo Magazines, dealing wl the purpose' at employee mag may be of Interest to at dents of engineering and industrial studies, and will show them t 
possibilities of such publlcatioi Every worker Is interested in s wages and In the continuity ot bis job. informing the men as  /hat Is .going on in tbe busiaest mables them to do ' tbelr <work nore effectively. It shows then rliat may be expected'as'to thi :ontlnulty of- einploymeii theiwheifrom and how they .are paid; it shows them how they can cooper
ate to.ward the reduction of waste and manufacturing malpracti< which tend to reduce the quality, aud increase cost and ther0oy r< duce the sale of products.rlticism of the modern ii dustrlal. system is that it reduces iality ot each'ork, li 
a produce by I
t doest allow hii any object
several parts of the compi eo that .all employees may hav. proper pride in wlvat they, togt
WOMEN'S. PROM
great and glorious r Prom on Friday. February 25. are taking shape gradually but surely.  The Piom Committee.- with Lucille Galmish an, has "been hard at the last few weeks, do- the vavious preparations: Although L. definitelado befoapproved by . Studentludicithebudget :Council,
English Room of the Fort Pitt as - aetting- for this importantivlTair. It is reported that the lav's for the Prom will be quite >vel and aitractive, and the sup- *r unusually good. The choice of ( orchestra, ia still uudor coosid- atio.i us well as tlie decorations. The Prom Committee iscozn- )sed of LucUl Galinisb, Chair- an; Betty Burkhouse,'.treasurer; Harriet Weigel, secretary; Mildred ug aud Marian Bellinger, tlck- publtclty, etc.; Beity, English, location; Louise- Roth, diuiier; McGuire, decori Wymen, favors.CathBEATTY SPEAKS 
ON EMPLOYMENT
Explain's Bureaus Service 
to Seniors of Science 
and Industries
SECURING A POSITION
Mr. John D. Beatty, Head of the Alumni Employment' Department 
at Carnegie Tech in a Tcent ad; dress before tbe .Seniors in 9cl' ence * and ' Industries schools, explained the function of the.employment bureau and tbs efforts which are put forth to place graduates of Carnegie Tech In suitably positions. ' '"Themore common , or dally Job of the Bureau of Em- ploymettt,'. -Mr., Beatty believes, is to- serve as a broker and as an honest broker between the person' 
needing work and the person need- ing the worker. This intermediary. transaction is in all respects' fflclnf nndt confidential, without dvlce or suggestion as to wages 
p working condition but with,, so far as is possible, full and detailed .information concerning them. As soon as the prospective employer and employe ere brought together, the transsction is complete and 
the Bureau of Employment has rendered Its specific service to both parties.In explaining the great need, for employment service'at Carnegie,' Mr Beatty says: "The experience of the Bureau of Employment dux lug the past six years and carefu Investigation during tbe past 1 
months show that the applicant who, during unemployment, an most helpless and who' most hoed 
employment service are not lower grades or types of male and 
generally: thefind 'nlngsiparatlvely easily and quickly if they will accept it: but tire the higher types of working persons- specialists, technical perts, and . professional wort who, through njodeBty or timidity, 
concentration upon their specialty or profosalon. total unfltneBs : other work, lack of baslm knowledge and methods, as w ae on account of the scarcity suitable oponliig9, ars unable see opportunJliss ior work elsewhere than in their specialty profession and are, therefore, pi tlcally helpless when it is nei/ job csell
 the. Emaary to And t 
themselves t employer. Just here portunity for service ployment office.In adltion .to explaining tli services of' the Employment b1 reau, Mr. Beatty talked io tii Senior, men on the subject of HO' to Secure a Position. One of. tb big. things to - remember, MBeal' point
ixbaust the possibllitl9i your present position before decide to seek employment elsewhere. There are big opportunities with your present employer for someone. If you stay and deliver, you may be the 'big bosi few years from now. No emplo: wants ol ; man .who constantly changes Jobs. Remember also that it is easier to get a position if yoi have one.In further explanation of th purposes although the Bureau o; 'Recommendations - attempts, to sel the services of Carnegie graduatesas* a whole the employei, th
view with .
in be done for indi- i furnish leads so that obtain an inter-tnplo]
Thethehimself. Many graduates seek positions of their own accord.' Th following channels may be used to locate positions, according to Mr. Beatty:(1 ) Answering advevtlsemei Many of the best concerns reci fill the vacancies whicli ct applied front their owa 
through the want 1.of,ally
e corpora^ 
ave - thelr cellaneous sert blind iaatead of
Som<big salaries to the men 
them. Many larg
oiTlces flooded by a mis rowd of applicants,-ln ids, with a box uumber 1. name. Applicants toi should consider the blind ads as hers. After select- hlch Seem lo offer Ihe positions that tbe applicants is most capable of flll.mg, the problem Is to answer them in a manner that will insure nn-interview. A letter should be' written to the prospective employer telling htm vhat he would want to know about he applicant. The applicant ihould be brief and should if possible avoid the question of salary until a personal interview has 
been arranged. Unless .otherwise directed, letters should be .typewritten.
(2) The second means of locat- ng a position is- by Inserting ad- er.tlsemehts. The applicant 9hould select the advertising me:h the men whowhich ,]
(Continued From Page One) lugly void: the insertion ot a pro- that tbe tiiree defeated cos- didates for Student Council presi- each year - automatically become, the presidents of liieir re* npoctlve school senates.for the enrouncll President. Carr also read list of orgonlzatlou officers who ire become ineligible, for their respective, positions as officers because of their mld-setnest,er grades 
>vhlch have .Called to nieet probation requirements.
:1he,.discipline committee re-: ported. ; ian.,1 the . repeated ;iiifrac-:; ttons of,the.library rulei.'1^-.rence Balph s -ireilinaUon accap^d ? r- w
may t ' t.lculai
lould write ioffer.
Theatre Tips
The.. Schenley theater. Forbes street. Oakland district, contlnaes its policy, of Interesting; entertain- moot with the presentation of an elaborate program of good things. Monday and Tuesday, December 13 sod 14, has. brocght the photORlsy, 
"Risky Business." In which - Vera Reynolds, is ieatured. ; The attraction Wednesday and Thursday, December 6 and 16, will be lionalres" with an all-str. cast. Including George Sidney/ toiilse FaFriday and . Saturday, Decembi and 18, will'brlag . the lavish -production, The Temptress, tfhloh . Greta Garbo  add Antonio 
Moreno havo the principal role: special stage attraction throughout th? week is Ezra Bazzlngtonf Comedy Rabo Jazz Orchestra, of ferisg a riotously,hllarlpas musical "eptlon, entitledFarm. Lon Cheney is 'The Fais  novel of Iheaam Joseph" from
i by Ibe presented on the Bcreen Mondi and Tuesday, December 20 and 21 
Ezra Bussingtons Comedy Rubi Jazz Orchestra 1b not only a nov elty butit Is a Teal producUon fron the viewpoint of artistry and lav ishness. This act, bas been to gether for eight yere, flaying with continuous success in ll parts America as e vaudeville hsadUner picture house feature.. Theli c Js of th popular type that over big with any audlei
_____ _ ompany, all
excellent musicians and including several specialty performors with one singer, who has an exceptionally good voice and know how to put over a rube song.
STRAND THEATER
Patrons of Stanley - Rowlai 
CJarkB Strand Theater have thr unusually good pictures ahead .of them this coming woek. Wednes
day and Thursday, Dorothy Gish appears in London her first tor- elgn made picture. See what happens, when a girl of the London 
Blums la suddenly transplanted beautiful Mayfair and a life ease. Butis she happy? Friday .and Saturday Raymond Griffith, that funny little man with the silk bat in his latest comedy drama, Youd Be Surprised." Conw have a 'big laugh. Monday and Tuesday, one of the outstanding pictures of the year,-Eyerybodyi Acting, starring Betty Broneot with a large supporting cast, name ly Louise Dresser, Ford Sterling, 4&wrence  Grey and Raymt Hitchcock. Selected comedies and news events with each change of
MANOR THEATER
Four great shows this week is the latest news from the Manor Theater Sq. HUl, Wednesday and Thursday FUchard Dlx In the greatest football picture of the year, the picture deals with the college life of Colton College and tbe big game of the season. Be sure and see Dlx in The Quarterback. Friday The Boy Friend. John Alexander Kirkpatricks great stage cess presents a veritable 
section of the soul of a small town, with Marceline Day and John Hor- ron in the leading roles. Saturday Betty Bronson in Everybodys Acting, a story of the. life back stage -with a strong supporting cast! namely Louise Dresser, Ford Sterling, Lawrence Gray and Raymond Hitchcock. Monday and Tuesday King Vidors latest triumph La Boheme starring Lillian. Gish and John Gilbert. The irtal romance of Mirni, the Ut- leamstress of Paris, and Rudolph, her prince charming. Seed comcdles and new? with 1 change of feature.
classified, and standard-posu a are unusually filled through 
employment .department. Peril application should be made,' there, because many high execu- and sales positions are filled direcrly by the executive in charge. Caution should be exercised in making personal calls, be- :auso unless ' carefully plauued, 
hey are likely to depreciate the ralue of the-services of tho appli- :ant in the eyes of the prospective mployer.
i6> Personal Acquaintances.- A vide acquaintance among worth- vhile men ia a big asset io a mao. t is important to impress ones friends In a favorable way so that will feel they are doing a corporation a favor by securing ones rvices for it 
(6) Telephone calls. The purse of a telephone call, in secur- ii position, is of coune, to sere a. personal interrtew. The telephone operator of the' concern an furnish the applicant with 
aluable Information, regarding
elephor
things be has to sell, lioutd describe liimseif as be .ould a commodity. In a brief. Msmcss-llke manner.
(0) Employment- Agencies offer aluable assistance in. securing poI ad. tell- sales,talk with'
 large field': i short tints' by the 1 
A piet
. Ho>
tally
' it i
of personal ingenuity in securing a position rather than depend solely upon an agency, . -
. .(.4). Personal calls. ; where the applicant.; believes- hie service 
mtght jbe used,, may someltmsavbe. resorted- :to supplement -other .methods ot getting an interview, 
rnriargerorgaalsatlonsth^.reguwishes%he company, the applicant 
an oecome connected with my produce excellent results 
 :(7)CtrculBr letters. Circularizing employers wjtlj a -personal letter is perhaps one or the best methods of obtaining employment It .opens up an.almost unlimited field: - The employers attention ia 
secured when he lias time to 11bislike.dlgni-fled 11 th
bjy in. tho market- for. bip.%eirlceB. 
trott a telephone directory- Tho' flr6t thtng to do is to get th name pf . the man. wbwe. flnal:-declslon
CLAN NEWS
Decemtir''2,: 1926. 
-Mr. John D. Beatty,Camegle Institute of Technology, Schenley Park,-'Pittsburgh. Pa. '
Dear Jack:-1 cant tell you how much I joyed seeing the game last .Saturday, by all odds it is the greatest football gaine 1 ever 'saw and 3 
think I can say. this without much sentiment- for my alma ter. Olir team'.fought with ei spirit which could sot be defeated, and that courage combined with splendid coaching,^dld th trick.- The people in Cleveland who follow football cannot understand "It e,t ell. The sporting wrlters. are trying to explain the situation by the.fact that Rockne was not: present, the Notre Dame team was a. banli of cripples because  analysis of tb? game, by any impartial observer will sr.y. that Tech was superior 
in every department.The Cleveland Clan had a splendid dinner Monday night and were delighted to have Overend, Toder and Anderson as guests. A report >f the dinner has Just been written and sent to'Miss RuthE. Andrews, tary. Our social committee Is planning a dinner . and.loker Monday evening, January 17 at which time the ines selected, for the all scholastic tei land will be present as guests. We .shaJl also endeavor to get the football reels of motion pictures and 
show them.It may be possible for you to rlelt ue on this day end if 90 we ibould be delighted to have you. 
With kindest regards, I am Yours very truly,'H. J. McCORKLE, 
Personnel. Assistant to Vice President of the White Mo: 
tor Company.The above letter received by Mr. Beatty Is not only indicative of the Cleveland Clan's activity, but also illustrates another thing 
which should he at th heart of all alumni, namely, the good of Carnegie. By this we refer to the invitation extended by tho clan to the all scholastic team of CleV6 land*to attend a dinner. In this
Other clans might take an example from this, and plan similar af
fairs.
YOUNGSTOWN 
* Thirty-six members of Youngstown Carnegie clan 1
tbs 
ojoy-dinner at. tho Y. M. C. A, November 16. After each man had introduced himself, Dwight Beede Introduced Mr. Willi) Pfouts, instructor of pattern nu
Mr.^Pfouts gave a splendid talk on the "Early Days at. Carnegi< and told of the line athletic spirit which dominates the campus to< day. He advised watching the results of the -Notre Dame game. -A committee was appointed to m?et with a similar committee ot 
Penn State alumni to arrange the annual dinner dance -which Is usually held before the holidays?.Buddy Overend and Mike Goodwin were the guests of the clan at a meeting Wednesday evening, December 8, 'at the home of the president, R. L. Troe9cher. About thirty' clan members were present and were given anfortable few mini lice
! PO-'rupted tlie party and
however, and the party, contlni to the venison sandwiches, which next to Buddys" talk were.t: traction of the evening.
MUwaukee Clan of Carnegie T< alumni, John L. Ferguson, E. *13, was elected- secretary-lreaa and E. G. Peterson, E. 17, pi dent.Monthly luncheons are held the first Monday of each niontl the Hotel Stratford at 12:16 p. There were nine alumni preaen the December meeting, including Mr. S. Vet Williams and G. W. Curtis, who are recent additions to the clan.. . It is needless to say. that chief, topic of conversation the Carnegie Tech victory' over
decide the case. A letter Id be written to this man.. The first paragraph of the letter ihould be strong enough to carry llm through the balance of th' 
etter. The remainder should be interesting enough to bring about in, Interview. Tlie details f' th$ pplicants training and. experlv nee may be ' tabulated and attached as a separate sheeL A tele-, 
phone call should follow the letter if advisable.
All the channels through which positions may be' located lead up th.e personal interview1 with the prespeot/ve mployer: The &pXINI of th applicant, what h<3 and does are sales factors in this interview.' It is.probably tho- safest plan to let. th employer do
possible .the employer's require- thei position, and then attempt to prove to. him tiiat he i handle the work, n'conclusipn Mr. Beatty pointed that representatives''of the iployment Bureau, and .the'entire staff ot Carnegie Tech aro 
constantly, in touch with the varl- .dustries.in thlB district. Th and also the Heads of the will be glad, to .write.individual letters f<
ective employers. These letters, dictated personally: will individual's case-' and will point out .to the employer why eacb alumnus is particularly quail- id to.handle the position in quesTho : Alumni Employment Bu- isu Js. doing a- great service for Carnegie students :in- securing 
them positions  after, graduation: AJinnnl-ehomd not hesitate',to> lake advantage -of -.the opportunities
Fust Church of Christ, 
ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue Sunday. 11 A M. and 8 P. M. -Wednesday, 8 P.'M. Sunday Schpol, 11A M.
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH FOR YOUR DANCE? 
This Coupon"and 40c will entitle you to.a BOo dinner. - 
THURSDAY EVENING 4:3M:00 P. M.
TRY OUR 35c LUNCH 
6peolal  Pastries with Fraternity letters for occasions.
 ShoralSsTeaRoom
. "371p: FORBES STREET- Phorie Selienley< 9318.
MOftt CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
' Before, the days of Corona most college work was,written by hand. Now every- .thing is- typewritten. Youll find Coronas at' work In etfery./ - college' In'the World. More - are In use today, than all other makes of portables combined. Come In and ceo :
Oakland 
Savings 1 Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
last, word In portable type* . writers. iStandard four-row keyboard,. wide carriage,: twelve' yarii- ' rlbbon-^niore'  big machine features than any other j^rtabie. Price ..only $60.00. We alsq hVe some bargains In used Coronas as low as $25.00. 
STANDARD TYPEWRITER..COMPANY......
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantlo 0342
The Oakland Bank;
Capital - $300,000.00 
Surplus r - - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
Cliff Restaurant
827 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
' Near Forbes '
Try our Special Lunches40o Special Rates To Students
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISER8
STANLEY-ROW
S WRAMB
Wednesday aiid Thursday December 15 and 1SLondon
Oorotby Gish
LAND-CLARKSMAM@1
Wednesday and Thursday December 16 and 1S
R1CHAH DIX 
Esther Ralston 
THE QUARTERBACK
Friday, and Saturday December 17 and'18
BMSO (Ifllfflffl
Youd Be Surprised
Monday and Tuesday December 20 and 21
"MBODllS ACTING
Betty Bronson 
Ford Sterling 
tewnpce Cray
Friday, Oeeember 17
THE BOY FRIEND" 
tola Hart
Marceline Day
Saturday, December 16
Everybodys Acting" 
Betty Bronson
Monday and Tuesday December 20 and 21
LA SCHEME 
Jobe Gilbert
Lillian Cisb
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKET FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
Sehenley Theater
t-Beautiful Neighborhood Thei
First' Floor and Balcony23bMezzanine36c 
HARRY DAVIS, General Mi * In Pittsburgh,iger
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, DECEMBER 16 AND Millionaires
Joyous Comedy-Dramia'-vvlth 
EY, LOUISE FAZENDA, VERA GOl 
CARR, HELENE COSTELLO AND JANE- WINTON 
H" FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17, AND 18The Temptress"
- From the novel by Blaseo. Ibanez with 
GRETA GARBO, ANTONIO MORENO, BOY DAHCY, LIONEL BARRYMORE 
A Fred Nlblo Production.'
ADDED ATTRACTION : 3 ALL WEEK
Ezra Buzzlngtons Comedy Rube Jazz Orchestra
Seven Performers Pre6entlnQ
________FUN ON THE FARM
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, DECEMBER 20 AND 21
LON CHANEY--------with--------
HENRY WALTHALL AND MARY ANDERSON 
in. Lewis Joseph Vances
THE FALSE FACES
THC C<PtHS, H<ATS .
SHOeS.
DEVELOPED BY FINCHLEY FOR 
COLLEGIAN USAGE FOR FALL 
WILL BE EXHIBITED BY .1 REP. 
RESENTA TIVE FROM NE W YORiC
WILLIAM PENN HOTEL 
Wednesday and Thursday 
December 15th and 16th
BOB STOKES, Kep.
PARTICULAR INTEREST IS IN
VITED TO THR EXTRA OK DIN A R V .
FABRICS OF FOREIGN SELECTION ' 
PATTERNS CONFINED SOLELY 
TO TIIIS ESTABLISHMENT.
FORTY-FIVE DOLLARS
AND MORE: ,  
 TAILORED TO MEASURE '
FIFTH AVENUE..NBW YOEK '

---------------------------------------------------

THI CAWNlOlt TARTAN '
YODER CHOSEN ALL 
AMERICAN TACKLE
eagerly listened to by everybody present, a
ight to "a magnlft- Jfflh Chamber of I. . Wally's talk was
i,presented with handsoi
NEWS OF Uie appointment of the t
year. A1 Irwin will bo unable to again lake the lob onacOTuntoI the number oihlsdutieB in- tie Graduate Managers office, and'also be- > of-the fact that he needs hie fall week endsfor scouting.' Thenow combination, should, prove to.be .. Une coach and .Donohoe. as backfield mentoile.-wlth-Manby for
* Lloyd Yoder, captain of Car* _ . k, he has beeri selected ori theofficial All American team, If there is such a thlngi picked by Ted Jones, KnuteRockne and Glenn Warner, in addition, he, as well as Manbyand Doiwhoe, have been Invited to filaywlth "Navy Bill Jn-flrarn'e.team.of Easterr *" -*-* - - ...........an Francr r acceptlr i desire 1western football critics are going to get an eyeful oh how the tackle position ought to be played. Do your atulT, Bull!
THE ADDITION of Western Reserve, and Drexel to nest year* football schedule leaves but one open date,'on .November 19th, on which date It Is probable that 'the University of Detroit will be played. The former team tabes the place :of':Juniata, while the latter, fili the vacancy' caused by -the dropping of Adrian. Both of the new?nger than these they replatt the new oppo-____________ ..... . which-meanB.a Btlff schedule next year, better balanced tfien the one just completed.
CARNEGIE WELCOMES Paul Allison, newly appointed plebe basket ball mentor, to its coaching staff. Allison' is taking graduate work here, and served as a football ecout during the season just dOBed. Before coming here, be was athletic director for five yearst California Normal, where he zd record, to he proud oL 
work with here, and the bo;iomblnatlon that should be mighty bard to beat
Lloyd Toder, Carnegie's great 
ckle and captla of the greatest Tartan football 'team in 10 history of the. school, has been chosen on the All American team picked tty Tad Jones of Yale; Pop" Warner of Stanford, and Knute Rlckne of Notre Dm. This information' ras - contained . in a telegram- resolved by Buddy Overond last- Saturday nightS 'Indeed a signal honor to be selected on' a team made up - by these men, three of . the four great- coaches- in -the' country, the othor one being Wally Steffan.. If Ali Amejican; team Isdeserv- lug' of toeing -called official; It .Is me, for the outfits coached by these men ore numbered among the best in' the country,-and they til play hard schedules, thus allowing them to see in action'a great arrrty oC football talent.-' ' - The' honor, while welcome, Is long overdue, for l&ose who have-----r Yoder, play know that he has
faced anyone near his equal in
after -that victory over Notre Dame,- football - esperta - awoke-' to the fact that there are some -real pIgekliTchasers at this school, and are beginning to acknowledge the fact - [ore news of this mythical elovis being eagerly awaited, because of the number of other Carnegie players who are too good to rlthout mention, at the very least'.
Carnegie Day T,alk by Dr. Henry 
Suzzalo Pleases Record Crowd
The fourteenth anniversary of 
the birthday of Andrew Carnegie 
was observed by Carnegje Tech on 
Tuesday, November 3. The exer
cises were held In the Music hall 
Ot the Carnegie Institute. The pro
gram was all that could be desired 
sad the attendance was excellent
The student body, lead by the 
Ktltle Band end. the R. O. T. C., 
marched from the Central Build
ing to the Carnegie InBlltute, where 
they assembled'In the Music Hall.
The school orchestra, undor the 
direction ot ,Karl A. Malcherek,. 
rendered, as an opening number, 
Adgletto from the Suite LArleBlenne. Following this. Rev. Mur
dock Madeod,, D.D., associate min
ister of the Shadyslde Presbyterian 
church, gave the invocation.
The epeoker of the day,Dr. Harry 
Suzzalo, .president of the Univer
sity of Washington, was than* in
troduced by Ur. Baker, president, 
of The Carnegie Institute of Techoology. Dr. Suzzalo had chosen as 
his topic,, the "Dominant Mind. He 
opened his address with  a brief 
survey of Andrew Carnegies char
acter. Mr. Carnegie was pictured 
-as a man who knew' It yWt better 
to help men to help themselves out 
of trouble than to banish trouble 
directly. All hie great foundations 
are social instruments devised to 
help other m4n to obtain a mind 
dominant over circumstances. He 
knew the discouragements of a yefry 
humble .start In life;., he was .ac
quainted finally with the tempts 
lions of great economic power. .
Mr. Suzzalo suggested that our 
own time, more perhaps than the 
era before it, needs tbie philos
ophy of a mind dominant He gives 
the following reasons for the sug
gestion "We have ceased to be a 
pioneering people In the 6ense.that 
onr fathers and grandfathers were. 
Life with them was simple and 
hard. They faced primitive condi
tions with comparatively simple forces.'- They acted with a high sense of pjersoaol.responsibility 'for 
every act, for the'consequenceB of 
mistaken judgment and a weak will
be mastered by uwn' In the woods 
and the plains or man perished.
Life is neither primitive, sim
ple, nor hard. Its very complex-' 
Itlen conceal the forces we have to' 
meet, and the consequences of our Tmsjudgment6 and Irresolutious are not obvious, it is easy for man to blame circumstances, and the other fellow.' Man has to b$ made a fetter thinker; to restore himself to a . greater belief in personal responsibility. In addition to our. tendency'to feel that .complex forces are greater thau onrseivea, wehave imported A-arloUB cuUa of determlnlams from foreign soils. Like certain physical -diseases*, they .have come ln with our i migrants.., Bom' of- discontents in other lands where equal opportunities did not exist, the emphasis ; has been put on a revolutionary 
bhunge of social system,* rather - than an Improvement, of one's, individual self. The attitudes of rad* lcallsm are transplanted toAmerl- ;;can soil where they do not fit- So , -socialism. and communism are phll- 0Bpphle3 based on a belief thatthe dominant force Is.the environing ^Cjjndltiou,' not the mind and the- 'character of man. The joint thought
and effort they stimulate Is almost eutlrely exerted to change the economic and social system, and little 1b done to moke human stuff stronger. They aim to 'soften life, rather than to strengthen human
Day-dreaming, psychologists tel] us. Is the. pathological revelation ot a week personality. The day dreaming of cult groups Is just as pntbo* logical. It Is the mere drift of desire fortified by large numbers :of others drifting in the same way. What Is personal in origin becomes a social movement It Is a product of minds dominated Just the same.Modern scientific method trans- fered bodily from nature to social science also carves some responsibility for our current deterministic attitude toward human life,, and personality. It cannot be transferred bodily, that Is not so as .to cover the whole explanation of human behavior. Scientific prosuppositions that everything grows from' antecedent to :consequent, cause to effect may be necessary as a first .state in^accurate, reallBtlc tblnMng abouf human affairs, but it is only a first stage. It cannot set aside the complications, sup; plementatlons of ethics and relLever become dominant over the forces of life."Following the address, the orchestra rendered the. Introduction to the Third Act of Lohengrin. Their performance was accepted with .enthusiasm, an encore being called for.Dr. Baker then took the Door. He spook of the occasion as being Impressive and beautiful, the addte8s thoughtful, and the
SAINT MARY'S CHURCH
Episcopal
McKee PUce " Oakland 
Sunday. Servjces:
7:46 A: M.4-Low 11:00 A^...iiSO P....-----------w - -' .Benediction ot the Blessed / .'.XSaccamenL , ; V^'olit^fon6:^B'6afi;:^C'*i!eri;the-hours'of- 4;P.:fcL and 6 .V-P.m-' Saturdays.'- '
The Carnegie basketball team is 
beginning to round Into form Qfler 
s of Btronuous effort In the 
gym under the watchful eye of 
Hofei Conch John Irwin. With the 
gamo on January 8 there is 
me to 'be lost if tho Tartans, 
to have a winning combineNo practice will be held over 
the holldsiys.
The closing of the football sea-, 
m has added several.players to 
ie' squad who are going to. make 
strong bids for b.erths on the first 
Among these are Knrpster, 
Donohoe, and Mefort, although the 
eligibility of .the latter two is In 
doubt. Other men who are ilghtit out for places are Captain 
Itay . Hurd, Tools Amaos, Lynch; 
High, Hitchcock, Crum and White. 
All of these men have had at least 
ne season under Irwin's eoAchlng, 
.nd should be able to work well 
ogether.
ral. Baker then made,  ery Interesting annoui They iirter, who was. chairman of the Board of Directors, has been etectod vice president of Carnegie Institute of. Technology, and also la .vice chairman of the Board ot
Mr. Cogswell, a In 1912; has been elected tc loard- oCTruaLpea. He Is the
if C.
irtp Judgrnent , our school
creased from
. At the last, of Sophomoi made a better showing than all the other schools combined.. C. J. Taylor, Raymond Simboli, and William R. Shulgold of the Arts Faculty, have paintings In the Carnegie International Exhibition. Mr. Simboli is a graduate of G 
I. T. .
The. Carnegie Corporation of New York has offered; to pay to the trustees of the Institute of Technology ou July 1, 1946, eight mil- ion dollars, provided we secure our' million.. One third of this iihount may be used In building, the. other,two-thirds must be applied to endowments.The students registering. In September, 1927, will-be forced -to .pay l  of $30, an increase of in former years. This rul
ing does not effect students already enrolled.'' * ' The Coal Conference, held at C.T., was attended by over 1700. delegates, -Many foreign countries presented. The more itn- of these are England, Canada, ..Mexico, Belgium;. Ja^an,. * C.zecbo-alovakla, Norway,Swedish, and Hungary.e singPatronize < 
ur 
o4dvertisers
PLEBES WIN INTER
CLASS SWIM 32-30
VARSITY, PLEBE QUINTS 
PREPARE FOR SEASON
Lost Saturday afternoon, Carnegie's first Inter-class swim was run tbe Plaid pool, and was won by the Plbes with  the score of 32 points. The. Juniors, placed sec- vltli a score of: 30 points,.the Sophomores, third, with  12. points, and the Seniors failed to enterauy
Follansbeei of the - Juniors was high point man-of the'oeet, BWlm- on the winning'relay ' team, and taking flret honors ln' the -60- yard free style,'and the 100-yard 1res style. Edwards of the Plebes lered 'ten points " by winning the '230-yaj free style, and the 60- ward back stroke, thus plclng hlm second , high In - point scoring. Tho Plebes-won four, first.places, ling. Basler toko tho dive, Sangc . the ..breast . : -stroke, .-and Edwards the 220 and back stroke. The - Juniors and Plebes fought ir-. supremacy - throughout . the meet, .and not until Uie-last race id.-been;swum dldi Uie .first, year 'boys shQW .their-superiority, |>y taking first place la the 220-yard, 
hlle Ihe Juniors got second place. 
.The ummsrles are as follows:/ RelayTime 2;8 4>S, Juniors Hughes,., Wray, Sturm, Green;id, FreshmanWoods, Wright, Mitchell, Basler.nerFirst,, Basler; second, dreen; third, Hornbostel; - fourth, Fuller.50-yard DashTime, 2$ 3-6;. first, illanebee; second, R. C. Wray; third; Wood. , .100-Yard DashTimew 62 2-5 ; st. Follansbee; second, Mitch- 1; tlilrd, Wright 100-Yard BreastTime, 1.27 1-2; first/ Songster; / second. Rosts; Ird, Hill; fourth, Llthgow. 60-Yard BackTline, 37.1; first, Edwards; second, Hornbostel; third, Ross.220-Yard DashTime, 2.52 1-2; first, Edwards; second, Wray; third, Fuller.TotalJuniors, 30; Sophomores,
iwimmlng meet was held last rhursday afternoon. For the sec* >nd timo this season the Fresh- nan girls took first place (the sthor sport was Ifowllng.) The scores: Freshmon, . 17; Sopho-nore, 1-3.6; Fine Arte,
isful I' He - has
DOd big experienced men to -work 
1th, and expects to do justice to 
bis schedule, which Is as follows, 
;cept for two gumps, which' ore 111 pending.January 10Geneva Reserves, abroad.January >14Pitt freshman^ibroad. iJanuary 17W. & J. freshman, 
' February 2Pitt1 freshman, at
Morch 1W. & J. frt 
March 4Pitt freahnu
jbman. at
. FETES TARTAN FOOTBALL PLAYERS
:aff of ciches>nd Introduced CouncilmojL Robei SaTland as toastmaster. -.Judge-William Boggott, of Day- on, O., followed Steffen and completely removed any possible trace of dignity or stiffness that may tavo beep present with his talk. 'Relaxation." This was a semi- lumorouB series - of descriptions nd comments, odd observatlons-of familiar situations, and was  most tcrtainlng feature of the proaker spoke on "The Schoi igie Tech, pointing out tli spirit which had supported tb ough the games prelin the great Notre ' Dam 
battle, and paying tribute to tfa who brought fame an
,nd cheers the. ' eve
bow..the- speechesthe members of the quad were presented with band- iome. wrist watches as token 'of heir great victory,- and thus ended illlclally the greatest football sea- on in the- history of Carnegie 
Tech/
> One.)with(Continued From Pag< w Carnegie wit comp it of other colleges.Indications point to an unusually successful season for the Inter- trateraily Basketball League. ' Interest this year is greater than in aiiy piecedlng year. The co-operation - necessary tb - make this  the
Instead of the usual. three; and of deciding tbie championship 
.by an elimination cu6sed. -The president-' of tlie 
league, John 'Fry, 'stated that season will opoti either the-first or\second week following- the Christmas'holiday period.' -The leagne scheduie,:;whloh is now being.' completed.' Will' be iftrran'ged' tiat the season wi)V;end bnfore -the Easter Vacation, schedule will be;. published 
1 !
lone Senior, .6. The v Is, and the winners: PluhgoFreehmen, first and s< id place.DivesSophomores..Medley' RaceJuniors. . Novelty RaceSophomores. Strokes for FormFine Arts. RelayFreshmen first, Fine Ar
i length of the
The novelty raceEach entrant as provided with a folded'Tartan id was required to swiih the width of the pool on her back, og tbe paper in both hands and not . wet' It.Tbe winning team was presented Mth a cup.
The Juniors snd Seniors of the spartmeut also helped Miss Bon-. 211 to run Dr. Bakers party for children of the, faculty which was hel<) last Saturday in tbe . Arts School..The Christmas plans of the YW. C. A. Are not yet complete, but
ment house. There will he a tmas, tree with all the,trimmings. candy snd a fat Sunta.Claus with a present or each child.The Student .Industrial, dinner! hich Is sponsored by the Y was held last Wednesday evening and one1 who attended had a..delightful time. There were about -forty girls present, half of whom stu-lents andi the pthers-wero glrlB In Industrial. employment. Miss Burnett was the speaker and she chnse Dr lter.subje.ct the "Relations of. Men Awl Women.1The Y has recently .installed a radio .set in the girls: infirmary lie entertainment of the girls are ill.
in B, 269; William PfoUte, in G, 269; George Nesblt, 
>n C, 259; William Anderson, section K. 266; Frank Mason, sec- cm D, 264, and Ralph'Lewls, eec- 3n J, 261 points. .There were 30 students who had Jtween 24 (average of C) and 260 points.
PROFS,STUNTS WILLFEAtURE SCIENCE STAG
(Continued From Page. One.) years, a special altempt wlll be mad) to reach all members of the alutnul body, and it Is' hoped an even larger group' than laat : year will be present. Andshthere' Is a grand possi- blllty that I Mlntt himself will.
id that 
hgfhds
intatlon of the alutunl
' (Continued rom' rage One) stated; that it' Was too - early have any definite knowledge' as] the',caus of Uie IQcfeed - rating! thought-it Is ;iiihiy provable fhT ' the - nw;'frateriilty,'tus^lTgiru ar.1 plyltig ii'iniportant' p.arth'<aFu- ture report^ will , allo? compete study of the reauUs of de?' 
.........
By it r. B.Another great sport ond one that most assuredly Is conducive of spasms Is Christmas. Very few people realize that the _ realreason that the big., holiday, oomes. so late In the year. Is;because of the fact' that lf it ' any earlier people would not have the energy to last out the rest ot the year. As it Is, there is itghty. close race between our ehdununce and our pocketbooks.
Istmas shopping- offere.vunusu- oi advnniage's-to. try. out new football plays,- and rumor, hath It that Wally Steffan of N. p. fame tried out some of his most effective plays a post card counter rush'last year at ChrlBtmaB time. And while stJU^on the subject of greeting cards, official statistics show that thore are 19 Sl-273 cards sent out )ry 2 1-3 people in our land of the; free (oh, yea.)Christmas time Is Uie season of play ; for the ad man. He farms o(ut his mind to a S. A. Santa Claus, who really needs at least and .gets to worb You.-ask for samples? Here goesl Ear Muffsjust the thing forchenilec- ' students;. Ties. Good for Christmas. giftsreasonable; Hos- that . reaches .new. heights of feminine lovollneBs; . Scarfs. that you will. be . all wrapped up in; Golf hoseIt/ addresses, the ball its own Accord,'and so on, far o -the spring vacation.Christmas is also, a-good season for sports as far as the prize ring icerned. There will be more iHghts per night from now till December twenty-fifth, than have oc* ed the : entire preceedlng' portion of the year. We .even tried irt one ourselves and gave it i a useless undertaking. We couldn't make a single sonl angry. And also it costs more to square >urselves than It does to buy a irioot? present, and' believe us, w
ie only Ideal paTt of Christie the vacation. It is tbe final thing, that , avails us of an. oppor* lty of Bnatchlng off a few winks of sleep before ' the final exams, or our part, axo,going to.paint vlndows black, lock all the doors, destroy the calendar and nve a call for January second. When it,Is all over wo will all come back to . Pittsburgh broken and better boys and girls. We are ready sure about the broke part and If the heavy dates In tho homu vn do not weaken we will be bet- , .or perhaps'wo . should Bay pur hnlque would -be Improved.OTe' like ChrlBtmas. It's a great sport and It gives 'one a tired out feeling - that can only. favorably comparo with the. fag end of a matli final..Merry Christmas and a Snappy BW-Year. !
(Continued From Page One.) cussions will, be announced at a later daie. . >, committee Is planning to hold another meeting during the; holiday vacation. The .. Interest i- at the;' mooting points to a very auccoeaful conference this
We Have Learned That it is 
Better to U;e
Kissel Skiles Rent a Car Semce
For All Occasions -
Atlantlo 4406: Tartan 14NC
Camel attracts the quality smoker
CAREFUL observation will reveal 
that men of quality demand quality 
in a agorettesmoke Camels. A 
Camel smoker goes straight to the 
point in cigarettes and. demands 
enjo^iiht.
For there are no better tobaccos 
or blending than you get in Camels. 
There is do other dga?ettc taste 
and fragrance that can compare 
with* Camels, because they arerolled, of the choicest Turkish and
Domestic tooaccos grown. Inadga* 
rette^as in the smokerthere is noth
ing that can substitute for quality.
If you want: to know what ex*. 
perienced'smokers like, jttit try 
Camels. Each year new millions try 
them-all and find in Camels enjbyment realized. Camels never tire 
the tastc. To test the quality of 
Camels, compare them with any 
. cigarette, jnade regordless of price. 
VHave a CameUM
R. J. RBYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY; WINST.ON-SALBM, N. C.
ro
ineering
Modem machinery is Timken-equipped 
machinery. This is: evident from the 
speed with which Timken Tapered 
Roller Bearings are being adopted by 
the greatest makers and users of 
every type of mechanical equipment. 
Therefore whether your engineering 
career leads to the design, construc
tion or use of.machinery you will be 
increasingly called upon to deal with 
Timken Tapered Roller Bearings. 
You are sure\*to find Timken anti
friction properties a great means of 
conserving power and lubncant. You 
THE TI MR ENROLL ER-fl E
will also find precision, endurance, 
and refinement best assured by Timken 
ability to carry both thrust and 
radial loat^Andyou willfirid Timken 
POSITIVELY ALIGNED ROLL^jmken 
Taper, and Timken-made stel. uni
versally considered as supreme con
tributions to modem bearing practice. 
All these economies and bet^ennents 
give Timken Tapered Roller Bearings 
their, outstanding^ place throiighout 
modem engineering. Fybm this uni
versal success come the resources and 
leadershipoftJieTimken.institutipn.
AR I N G C Oi> C AN TON-, O H I 6
TIM REN
Tapered 
HOLLER BEARINGS

---------------------------------------------------

&^wglt Jotro
PBONB KAYFLOWS* I
"Dont Say There Aint No Santa Clane*
StS^Sb P.
... EDITORIAL STAFF 
Edltor-in-Chief ^...Merrill. HolllnsheadManaging Editor...................gam WellNewa Editor......:...,....................Fronds KolbAthletlo Editor.. ....... :. . William R. Bernardi
^CONTRIBUTING' EDITORS 
aoV Tallmadge Robert M. PewRusselBul loger Ralph Hitchcock
Meredith Stamp
Harold Jacobooi Bario QriffiBS 
Milton. Cohen.Fenton Finn Jeon RoyALUMNI EDITORS Margaret Russell Herbert Gran' JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
. Florence McLaughlin Helen ReedJosephine ClarkCharles Hartang
Stewart Ralston JL B. Snyder Fred WoodClark Weamer Joseph O. Ritter William McNeilRichard Klag Harry Wldom Eugene ScanlonClyde MoEee  Cyril Letzeller Bob Yoang
Clrcalatlon Manager..... .B. SiijwwitzAdvertising Manager....,...............Shelby MnWllUon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert R. .NobleT. R. Zenk A. M. Brown CIROULATION ASSISTANTS 
It. Sacks G. W. Brahmst J. R. Brown
FGETSAAEG RIRXBP
The fulure bf deferred, rushing to co _ ___________ ^ _f ...............
to the expectations' of the Inter-fraternity of time to make his choice. The last few days 
Council may be attributed to the following are used mostly for getting the final licks in 
causes:  about the other fraternities on the campus, andFirst1The unfortunate choice of 'the first often a lively imagination can work "wonders 
two weeks in December for the rushing season, -with a naive plebe, after legitimate means have 
SecondLack of co-operation between fac- been unsuccessful. " There is no logical reason 
ulty members and the Inter-fraternity. Council prolonging rushing at the expense of lead*
project.
Third-^Too long a period of rushing.
Fourth^-Infractions bn the rules made by 
neveral of the fraternities.
There seems to be no reason for a two and a ...............
month period of standing by before bids abou^them^ and^ -
may be given out The advantages of snch a ;s interested in ab^vioiatioiur But
system were pointed out to be the opportunity important thing to consider is the mutual 
feHJnB o distrust which all the fraternities
pipe methods. .
Finally there is the viewpoint of the frater
nities. There were lots of infractions which 
never reached the ears of' the council investi
gating committee. Only the freshmen know
GOOD TIMES AHEAD
exhibited. It was as thoughWell, well 
keep to the rules as long as all the rest do, but 
were prepared to play the game cither way. 
And dont forget were watching you.
the freshmen would have to findout about fra
ternities, and, on the other hand, fraternities 
would have ample time to see Whos Who 
among the freshmen. But upon inquiring from 
various fraternities the value of such a long 
period of marking time, it was found that pre
liminary rushing activity didnt start until a ,.   . .couple of weeks before the season opened; These things should be kept in mind by the 
there needed to be the stimulus of having the Inter-fraternity Council' before they consider 
rushing period only a little while ahead before continuing delayed rushing,.as it was practiced 
the plebe class was even thought about as fra- tbis year, for another season. Outside opinion 
ternity material. As for the freshmen, as a divided as to the benefits of this type of 
whole they did not appear to be any more edu- rushing. R. N. Jones, president of the Uni ver* 
cated to fraternities this year than they have sity of Illinois Inter-fraternity Council, reportbeen for the last four years. They were bur- ed at the National- Fraternity Conference in 
dened down with ratings which disinterest New York that, in a survey of seventeen unied people had heaped-upon them, and if any- versities which hold' to deferred rushing, thirthing, ' they appeared to be more uncertain teen of thm found it unsuccessful, as a whole
what it was all about than ever before. or in part. President Hill, of the Carnegie
Then there comes the ' elmnt of rushing Council came back from the- same conference 
season vs. school work and faculty. Freshmen with good. reports of deferred rushing from
narks, issued four times-a semester in Science many of the schools representd there. It apand Industries schools, made necessary nuiher- pears, then, that on this campus deferred rushous tests and extra work during the time desig- bas not been givens complete nor satisnated as Rushing Season by the Inter-fra- factory first trial. It also appears that there
ternity Council. In only a few cases did the are some evident weaknesses in the present 
profs take into consideration the fact that the . system as it was practiced recently, 
plebea were out almost every night, were rush- We would like to see deferred rushing' given
ed to .dances, shows and swims, were so men- another trial under slightly different circumtally bewildered that midnight bull sessions of- stances.* A period of rushing beginning with
fered th only means of arriving at important' Friday and continuing through the following 
fraternity decisions. Co-operation . from' the week end, held just after the freshmen grades 
faculty consisted in following the routine re- are issued for the first time, somewhere about 
gardless of any extra-curricular project at the the middle'of October. Faculty co-operation 
time. should be solicited through the administration,
Two weeks was tiresome and unnecessary, and an air of mutual trust among the various 
Given this much time, a plebe usually spent fraternity groups would help considerably, 
five of his evenings at one house and divided Under conditions such as these the weaknesses 
the remaining eight among the other fraterni- of deferred rushing, as it bas been practiced 
ties. Fraternities are tired and sick of the at Carnegie for the past two weeks, might be 
very sight of plebes; sick of 6aying the same wiped out.
old- stuff every night to each one. If a plebe ' . M. T. H.
Katherine Cornell and Ina Claire Give Their
Ideas on Bobbed Hair to Inquisitive Reporter
To bob or not to bob," that wee 
the question which confronted the 
young co-eds afew years ago, but 
today the pre-eminent question on the campus Is whether the young, co-ed shall retain her bobbed hair or let her tresses 'grow.
Ina Claire says Yes!Kather
ine Cornell saye No! This lm: portent question has been definite ly decided by these two eminent actresses; and their, antipodal Ideas on the subject, have been procured by the writer so (hat the co-eds of Carnegie might be Informed, and. thUB be to profit thereby. /
Ina Claire bas one of the most beautiful blond bob coiffures 1n the world of the theatre, while Katherine Cornell Is equally stunning with her long black hair, which Is arranged a 1& Cleo fashionthat 1s, smoothed down and done up In rolls on the back of the head. Tho portstlc situation that presented Itself before the interviews with these distinguished ladles x^as whether Miss Cornell intendedto retain her long hair, or whether Miss Claire had any Intention of letting her bobbed hair grow.When Iris Marchs Hlspano Suiza hlt-the tree for the-flaale of "The Green. Hat it wastheendof iris as
tar as the audience was concerned, but not as far as the wTlter was concerned. Miss-Cornell appeared very, charming as she- talked, about bobbed hair, while the stage hands very skillfully reproduced, the denouement of Michael Arlens masterpiece by dropping a large plank on the floor. \
I have no Intention of bobbing my balr. she professed, as I have never liked it, and It seems very obvious that bobbed hair Is losing out. JSven now those peopleisldei) being st hav
abandoned the fad altogether
'Smart people of the Iris March type are resorting to the carefully dressed coiffure that enhances the appearance greatly. Long hair is woman's chief charm: and she should do all that Is wilhln her power to retain it."
Ina ciare. who had made Mrs. Cheeny ^contrite for. the four hundredth time, declared that bobbed hair was .the very thing.
There are different bobs suited for different personalities, such as the piquant, vivacious, and romantic types. The Individual bob serves to'brtng out.the'pefsonaltty of the person who . wean It -And the 'Smart* .people are still contlnolng
ir, le tsevere for any woman, and I think that It causes her to lose h< lnlnity. It'Is. most pathetic: be* cause a woman instinctively acts 
the role which her clothes and coif fure demand her to act I ean't se why women want to be mannish; it is tar lovelier to evoke the fem in Ino charms.'"And no one knows better how ti evoke the feminine charms that Inc Claire. She appeared like a beautiful picture In her cafe aa-ialt gown, the one which she weai the contrition ces /? Th Last of Mrs.' Cheney." The molded of golden waves, In a coiffure that Is - meticulously serve to? bring- charm of a personality, that is composite of the three'types of 
which , she. spoke. .It is strange, .however, that th< two distinguished actresses dis agree on the main* point Miss Clair insists that the "Smart people are continuing- to wear the bob; while Miss Cornell declares that the bob Is Interdicted amoi this set of people.- - The only sol ttoa left, Is that "Smart peopl
- {Continued From Page One) ..- Though the coinmUt.ee In charg of the location for the affair has not. made its.decision public, there Is very . little doubt that the Prom will be held anywhere .but the. the ..-William Penn, this being the best suited piece and consequently, the moBt.loglcal choice. The orchestra; committee In Its endeavor to book the group of players that will be absolutely the finest obtainable, hifl deferred q dcision until some part/culsrJjr prtineot Information U received ..that- may change- the ItaaUon to some ettent lt is be?  IfeVed. however,::that the ultimate chplw will lle wlthln the follow: ing iist of YUtloniUy-known must;
cording Orchestra.; .Dave- Harman and his players,' Tei Henry's .Carolinian's,'and Ted Weeins Orcbosready been ordered. It is said that the-form'er are. decidedly original and unique, having never 'before'been offerd as favors at a Carnegie -octal event- When last spoken to on the subject, one mem* ber of the committee broke away away with a' string of superlatives; that would start?' Gene Tunney, 
and claimed that the favors "were the ,everythlDg<st In .creation-. 1%ey > must ' be - new.-.  ;"Junior.Promt Uv.onJan^Ty.is.jea^ng'
' (Contltued From Page One.) 
(or a night school representative 
since such representative . b never sat on the Council; Inserti of a provision that the three  feated candidates for Stude Council each year, automatical become the presidents of their respective school senates. Mr. Carr then read a.llst/of the organisation officers who have become. Ineligible for,their positions 
because of. mid-semester gradei Vlilch failed to meet probation requlrementc.
IMPORTANT 
FACTORS IN 
PROSPERITY
POEMS  WALT WHITMAN
There Is a great deal of tepid, lustreless verse being turned out 
today toy Innumerable people; It is all neatly typed oil and mailed; It all finds its way to the wearied eye of some editor or overworked hack; and most of it God -he praised, comes back with a rejec
tion slip. But some of'It does seep through Into the magazines and even into an occasional "thin volume; a little of It goes at once to the beads of a few people, who Immediately Invite each other- In to tea, and tell each other .that Itispoetry. . ' .
While they babble and sip, let os go off by ourselves and forget 
them;' let os consider something as utterly different as, possiblefrom .-/.their, .--.sickly., theme*some* thing freBh' and'crsde and- Btrong,' with greatness In It,- but a great' ness they cannot tinderatand, that cannot ever be- fully understood the work of Walt Whitman.
He Is not a poet for a tea party; he goes about, as Sandburg says, 
In his shirtsleeves. He would not in the largest drawing room, en If It did have a great deal of gilt paint and velvet in it; he be- emphatically out-of-doors, with' the clouds and the birds and le fresh air.-*
Now there are-many quite estl- able individuals who feel the truth of this, but add that not only does he beldng out-of-doors, but For
I sound my barbaric : 
the roofs of the wo: never denies me I
Strength of the Present 
Financial Conditions in 
This Country is Noted
iuinesB Conditions in the Near 
Future Loom Up Favorable.
ie of the most important faoin the continued prosperity of 
this-country -is the steady- rise 
iilch has taken place in the la
cunes of the working ciasB. 'Con
tinued high production depends 
upon continued high consumption, 
md more than three-quarters of 
he consumera of thla country are 
if the working class. Consequent
ly there Is a close connection beeen the amount' of sale of goods 
id services which are possible 
and the wages whlch'are-pald;
The Department of Labor/ com- ptes an annnal index to indicate th averago "wages paid and, th average hours of work per week. The Index of the rate of wages per hour for 1926 Btands el 250(3 as compared with 237.9 In '1925 and 100 in 1913. Th index of hours worked in 1926 stands at 
92.8 as compared with 100 In 1913.In terms of' hourly wage the average worker's Income Is 2 1-2 times what It was in 1913, and blB cost of living Is 1 1-2 times what It'w before the war. As a result  of this state of affairs the purchasing work has gained. Just exactly two- thirds during the years bet<1919 and 1926. and the wc can. ,buy one-and two-thirds as miich with a given amount 
work as In 1913.Even when we take Into cons ratlon the'shorter hours cf wc we find that the worker Is able purchase more than 60 per c< more with his wages at the preii than ii the <: before
umptlol
theThe Increase In the w earned by vorkera haa been of the tnost encouraging factors In the. past few years. It me the present prosperity is pendent u the buying of limited numbers ot consumers, but hat 
the Increase in the amount of con has bees wide-spread, tost'Important * facto'rs ii our unusual prosperity appear t< be: the continued -high wage; combined with comparative ato 8ence of unemployment, advancements made In large-scale production which bring- greater produi tlvity of labor and capital, and the unusually large bank reserves which have made almost credit possible. At tl time there does not.appear to be
of business activity dui first six month!There- has been the amount of business activity ii certain lines, such as steel aiid.ai tomoblles, and in other lines ttier .has been en actual increase Jn tljie last few months as Is the case regard to building, which holds in spite of the continued high c of materials tfs<i construction!. Fear, .has been expressed; in many quarters that th< danger.which should be watched; that Is that the consumers encouraged to buy more .than they are able to carry .because of 'he wide extension of installment buying which Is so prevalent'at1 the 
present time.  Another  danger which exist? In regard to installment buying Is that there Is- always the danger that our credit 
system may become too heavily involved In these ' financings of tlmo sales and thus bring abouttallmentit thecredit, which will .be available-for production. But in spite of danger, at the present time there does not' seem to be any strong indication that we are going ' have, a business depression..  ! BARTON GRIFFIS.
blesall be blsind shall
wear I will never again mention love or death Inside a house, you would understand me go to tbe heights .- water-shore, e nearest gnat is an explanation, and a drop or motion of waves a key.-
ihonld have a large group, of de- Irious foltowere; it is to be expected, too, that he should, during his lifetime and-later be hysterically condemned. - 'What remains 
true is that he towers above any other American writer by virtue ofhis understanding, his
large groping sympathy- for all things American (and for all things human); his strong intuitive grasp' of phrase, and sustained power- of moving utterance; his utter IranknesB end sim
plicitythe frankness and simplicity of a.giant or of a child; bis massiveuess, his kinship with tbe earth, and everything made of earth.  Others of his'countrymen have succeeded better in more difficult thingshave written more brilliantly, '.;bave displayed : superior. 
'acutenesB . of 1 Intellectbut none- has created a finer thing than Leaves of Grass"; nose .has achieved a work so likely to [live on. It would be idle to choose parts of this great work for praise or for condemnation.' It has been said that the Lincoln threnody Is the moBt majestic In the language; that Drum Taps 1b the most 
moving battle-piece; that in Come Up From the Fields, Father, Whitman has seen more deeply into the heart pf a.soldiers motbeithanNor do tin
of his- lire matter so-much, even though we Uke to. remember that, acting on bis philosophy, he sacrificed blB health to nurse wounded sol'dlers. When all is said and done, we do not care if be did id'forgback, i* if helegllgeimorals; 1 
book; we cannot help but Teel that It is a great soulhow great, none can say. It is Impossible to analyze him. He will always elud<the ihis ID)
will remain baffllugly hidden, for 1 has In him the sune mystery thi tbe grass and tbe trees have, ex all live things. He is, of eir poets, the closest to the earth; be is like somo rock which, showing only small portion of Us mass nbo ground, 1b rooted therei In the so and Is a part of the soli.
A. B. FISHER.
Coniribs and Comments
poaslble. Bat mcV expaarion In 
the field of contribution will take time, had not a little patience 
.. Oae word morme misguiaed Individuals Inform the "man who tatows- -that.lt  will' take. just a lit
tle more than e breath ot the. Pup-: pet to waft the Shilling Into ob
livion. - ' -
SARAH ELIZABETH HATES, 
Editor of the Shilling.
To the Editor of the Tartan:. In the .latest Issue of the Carnegie Tech Puppet on the odltorlal 
page appeared a scathing denunciation' of Its contemporary,the Shilling, - a denunciation -which seems to many quite out of-place 
and ill-timed. If the Editor of the puppet really feels th scorn he expresses he probably felt the same way not long ago when the Shilling was- making a brave fight to coutlnue on our campus. Had h spoken out then, hie vituperation might have had effect, his literary sensibilities . might have bees Bpared all. further. Issues of the Shilling. - We seem to remember mt-'onw-the' Puppt-'wa uotthe 
glorious succeBB : it le now. Perhaps the Puppet Editor has an axo to grind.
The idea ie prevalent on the campus that the Shilling is a womens publication exclusively, whereas It is only a womens publication 
In the sense that women edit and manage it Contributions cepled from students In t colleges of the institution as from the faculty. And, though the Editor of the-Puppet may -nol recoginz It, the Shilling "fllla s definite need on the campu?. Car
negie is frankly a technical institution, but there are many students here, let us hope, whose interests are not entirely bound up In the The English
i people i
icultyknow who th<Shilling etaff almi 
their literary 'tendencies by soliciting contributions when they are not volunteered. If tbe contents of the Shilling are not all they should be, the deficiency Is due to th-reti-, cense of the persons who write the desirable material, not to poor discrimination on the part of the staff.
Comparisons are odious, cf course, but tbe Editor of the Puppet has brought it upo -The original contributi
his i-tbe i
lei of ii 
1 called "College Hun Shilling, on tbe other hi posed entirely of mat!
ss which are all with other ma- n a publication
FALSE. STANDARDS
The writer, wbUe looking .o lie Founders Day program, ountered the words which eared under the heading ot Fon Day Scholarships, and thoughtthat they i 
'.Awarded by the Institute i high standing
nent
Junloi If iind Sophomore : the case.
then ishould all doff our hats, extend our hands to those wh< names appear, and congratuate them upon their accomplishment, because high standing In an Institution such as Carnegie Tech cer tlnly is a praiseworthy achievement ' However, we look a irlfie farther, and Investigate just what high standing means.Man la a social creature whc a normal member of society Is pected, by his cooperation-and selfishness, to contribute something to the lives of bis fellow men, Bomothlng to make their existence more pleasant, and their association with him a pleasure. It he is a member of an organization, he is expected to be loyal, and contribute to Its progress and prosperity. 
Then these students ot high stand-lug imd woidone something to make-Carnegie a better place, have' done something: to make themselv memberfed and loved by. theli elates, and when they leave they will be missed by tbe school and by their fellow students. C no Belflsh person who wi terested In-any one except himself,
) JudgeOne of the best ways students Interest In his Ie by the degree in which he participates In activities. Let us examine closely th records of those students whose, names appear- on the list as holders of Founder's Scholarships. The writer does not feel capable of passing judlgment upon the women students because 
he is not well enough acquainted with the Individuals mentioned with their activities. Of the twei men whose names appear on < list' three men have made-a lai contribution ot their time 6 effort to the activities of the school, two; others bave made a very no tlceable contribution, and of th< .other, fifteen I- challenge. Sherlock Holmes to find .fivo activities among the lot Thus, we see that twenty-five . per cent' of the men mentioned S*e. deserving of special award because of their contributions to their school and fellow students, and the others can be classified under the head of book worms entirely wrapped up and Interested 
with their own welfare. We might eyen go so far. as to take the money which 74 awarded- to the fifteen last mentioned, arid-label It A tribute to selfishness. There are 
many, activities on the Carnegie campus presenting such a variety of Interests, that every student c find a -place for himself. If he. willing to .give some of his ttme If - high -scholarship were a great- accomplishment, something 
that In itself r effort it mtght be a good basis for classification.-However, for a large percentage of the students hegle, high scholarship Is ridiculously easy If no lim li for participation In activities: There are nisny. who, would, question my 
statement but observation and experience lead\me to make It* as such; Even casual glance at there corda of the ai^imnl wltl convince t ekeptlcal that .the men and
who,' - by their.- accomplishments, 
have brought the most fame to Can negle were all around men and women and "not just academic ex- cpllona. The world at large does not reward those who ere selfish, and who by their warped Intellect and negative personality make themselves little more than human machines.
It la to be hoped that the present standard of awards will soon be changed so as to encourage a nor.?al, wellinded dei
THAT AMUSING EDITORIAL!
Well, the "man who knows didn't have enough materia] for the editorial page of hJs Puppet, so he eat doyn and wrote an editorial, all about the Shilling. Oh, that was a most ludicrous, editorial.- The "man who knows, with a fine disregard of ethics, incorporated his criticism of the Shilling with material in praise of his own 
magazine, and .placed tbe combination of the frulta of his discriminating judgment within the pages of the Puppetchild of his own editorial genius.The certain misguided lndlvldels IBstructlve character. But the edttoi of the' Puppet was careful not K imbue his Invective with construc tive matter. He stated!- That wac tbe limit ot his captiousness. H< stated that the "enticing pink covei was assuredly no help in'the sell
ing of the magazine." Since Editor of the Puppet did not take an active part In the sale of th< .Shilling, and.prqbably did not sup port its distribution with at marked enthusiasm, one wondert why he concerned himself with that aspect pt the "high school publication." He stated that tbe poetry was mediocre. But he did not s; wherein It was mediocre, nor whi sort of poety be, personally.. woul not consider mediocre. He stated
people <Car
negles campus who can write with literary. merit when called upon. To whom, by the way, do jlhese people -give their literary acblve- ments? Quite obviously the Puppet has received none of thei lately, and you know that there, may be some pages of any hi ous magazine which can be devoted- to writing that really scintillates with wit. He stated that the co trlbutions of the:. Drama Aepai ment were "Juvenile, childish, ai -Immature." Believe It or not, "tl man who knowa really need< those-three words, to convey'the Idea that the Shilling was a puerile publication.And then tbe Editor ot the Puppet grandly, and'With..a great air of originality, suggested; that .there be a more general support on th( part of all the schools. That. ii what - the "misguided Individual) who have been bitten by the liter ary bug* are striving for. The crltl clsm of the- Shilling tip until this .year bas been that the-magazine was confined to .literature produced by students of Margaret Morrison We believe thaA'even.the Editor ol the Puppet will agree that this limitation has been overcome, since the. Art School "crashed through, In the recent Issue. The. staff c the Shilling^ desirous of printing material from all four schools; V erlng as wlde a.ratge of matter
Ingg existence, d even If the Shilling were as as the editor of the Puppet claims, If his aesthetic sense was ally outraged, we should have thought that hla ethical precepts
Notes of Music
By Allan V. Ntrn
LewleJohnson. 
fifary Lewis, soprano of the Metropolitan opera .and Edward John- Metropolitan opera tenor, will 
a joint Tecital'.ih Syria. Mosque, Tuesday. Jan.' .4.' In addi
tion to operatic, arias and songs by 
each, artist they vrlll also be heard.In several Hoets.- 
They, will be assisted by Ellmer Zoller* accompanist,   prominent Pittsburgh artist; and musical di
rector. of Ita dio Station WCAE.. 
Zoller was' former accompanist for Johnson over a period of six < years, and also during; the last, year with Miss Lewis.
Mendelmohn Chair.,.A magnificent choir of 60 so
pranos; 50 contraZtos,40. teuors. and'50 basg;. makingVtotal of 200 selected voices,j'.-will. represent the 
aiehdeiBSobn ;ch0ir' 0n :Ded. 20-' when Haenssl'a MeBSlah" will besung m Carnegie-HaU'starting at 8 p. ni.
. The soloists engaged for this-. work are sill of New York and are 
recognized as the best In tbe oratoria' field. They are Cortine Rider Kelsey, soprano; Ruth Pearcyr contralto; Dan Beddoe, tenor;. Ffed Patton, bass.
Pattons excellent work of last year Is still remembered, as the 'finest )}ass 6O work that has- been heard, in, this city tor many years. Earl Mitchell will play Lh& orgnn accompaniment
Singers desiring to make appll- . Ration for membership in the choir will do so at once.- Ernest Lunt, the director,- Is enlargening the choir by 50 voices for the performance next spring ot the "Bach. 
Passion" and is receiving applications at the present time.
' (Continued From Page One) Thistle order which will certify the arrival ot his book by Campus Weeh.
Editorially the hlstle 1b assuming a seml-finlshed state. With a great deal of the photography completed. the editorial staff have been devoting their tlmei to obtain tho drawing thaL will complete the 
theme of the book and'to edit the -various events that have taken place on the campus during the past semester.
Thistle salesmen, please report to - tho  Publication Office, Industries Building, Tuesday, between
ELLENOR TALLMAI1GE.
Reymers Chocolates, The Sweetest 
Gift for Three Generations 
of Christmases
6018 PENN AVENUE FORBES AND ATWOOD STREETS
Only a Few More Days to Shop!
Make the moat of them at
The Christmas 
Store 
where broad, spacious departments, well 
stocked with gift merchandise, make lastminute shopping as pleasant and easy aa pos-'. 
Bible.
'.RH, ,.BaRN.
