ntZSHMAM ALL-OASSZOIE DASOE 
ASSESSMENT*160 
nt iS FBIDAY .0:00-1:00
. FDTH WIMC1T THM1U CAMPAIO*
........ WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 6
-------SALESMEN IN ALL SCHOOLS 
VOL. XXI NO. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 1927
HARMONS OR
CHESTRA AT 
JUNIOR PROM
Schenley Hotel Chosen by 
Committee as Site For 27 
Formal Affair January 28
2nd SALE NEXT WEEK
favors Havo Been Chosen and 
Supper Planned By * 
Committee.
Negotiations are being completed for, he ...securing ot tbe tar lamed. Dave Harmon's Orchestra ^-equally, far-famed.. Junior
. States' would bo none to good io* -tbe exacting persons "who will at*.- tend tbe Junior Prom, but It eeema to be ani, assured fact that even these will', be enthralled by tbe melodious muelngs of Dave Harmon's'boys.
This . 12-plece orcheatra, which will play at the Grand ilurlbg January, baa been very prominent. lor several. years. During this past year they bave played for Oblo State, University of Pennslvani* and Coniell Prom6. : Harmans 1N a. Victor'Recording, Orchestra,.and at presentla making a",tour of the' country.- They have been secured tor the From at great expense.
There will L many who .will be glad to hear, for Various reasons, that the Hotel Schenley will be the scene of this ball supreme. The committee in charge baB chosen the Schenley,' because, in addition to %eing near the. campus. It is equally suitable for ' the' occasion. The Carnegie ^atmosphere" le al- ways^present at_ thevSc^nley.
e g ' particularly ' - delightful little bit or leather, or perhaps It is of silver, has been-cbosen as tbe favor for the Junior Prom. Every member, on the committee has been known to rave for hours at the mere -mention of tbe word favor. It is quite evident, that, out of a brainstorm, hallucination, or mental gymnastic of some kind; someone evolved this Idea foT a favor; But though they all talk willingly and.'enthneiistlcally,'. they are reticent1 to,-tlv6-xtr*ine^Jciian,_il 
comes .to,-Identifying, tfie object It seems, then, that the only 'other prerogatlve'would be to attend and 
find out.tale
which' tlme the red tags will be exchanged. - The sale of these red -tegp has- been ptomtqlng, bue 
undivided support has been mlBS- Ing. Jo make the Prom the success 1t. lways has 'been, and, we' hope. It always will be. early Interest muet be lo evidence. The most Infallible way to show this Is to purchase tbe  preliminary 
tickets early.: A swarm of committeemen stayed here-.durlng the .CfctlBtwas.vacation, and slept, and-lived at the Hotel Schenley kitchen. For wby? Just thisthey spent ell of that time- Inveigling, bribing," threatening and otherwise coaxing the poor haggled chefs of the Schenley to exert themselves to the utmost In formulating new and enticing bits of edible . The supper thla year according to the committee, will .not bei huge enough to satisfy a rapacious appetite,, but promises lo be of the highest quality. Thus It will be seen that the Junior Prm of 1927 will Indeed live up to the glorious fame of Its predecessors. Last years ball will ring' through the ages in tbe memories of those who attended. Omens present and .the spirit evidenced this year' roakei it a very evident fact that the class of 28 . will hold, a i+bm that even surpasses last years..Tbe personnel of tbe general committee, and that ot th subcommittee, is. such that , success is the only possible restL At 'present tho busiest member Is: Mark Seibert in charge of ticket sales.A final work or xtwo. Die date la'January 26,-tbe'end of the..second semester,. which implies too that exams-Wlll have, been finished. Th 'place ia'tho Hotel Schenley.
. Tho Girls Glee Clab.of Margaret Morrison have, planned many con* certs for the month of January. On January 22, the members of .the club -will sing' rln:' the Margaret 
Morrison Assembly Room, when 
tbe girls from the neighboring high schools ; will- be- entertained. Con
certs will also be givenat the Ma* ride Hospltal and the Veterans Hospital In. Asplnwall.' The! girls will appear at a Cbapel service In the near future. Several other'coh- certs .are being arranged, the dates 
and places to be announced later.The officers of the Glee Clab urge every member to he present at tbe rebearBal on Tuesday, January-4. at. 4:30,- since good rehearsals are necessary to the success of (he January pfogrnm. '
Inter-Frat Formal 
At Scheniey Hotel
Prince of Wales Orchestra 
Obtained by Committee . 
For Inter-Frat Hop
The annual Inter-fraternity for
mal, which will be held at the 
Schenley Hotel ballroom February 
16.'Is to be featured by a banquet 
during the course of the evening. The committee In charge of the dance have made the necessary arrangements for the repast. - It is to. be  vry elaborate feast. The price'has beeh'BBt at a dollar and a half per plate. Thla Is a very nominal charge, as the banquet will cost 'the committee about three dollars per plate. The difference will be taken from the Bale of ducalB for the dance Itself, which are live dollars.
February 18 should see the Bch&njey ballroom thronged with fraternity men and their partners. TJte committee. baB carefully planned every detail necessary to a successful formal and, .have kept the admission and banquet levies down to a minimum. Music will be furnlsbed by the' Prince of Wales orchestra of Soph-Hop fam. They need no recommendation for we swayed to tbelr syncopation the night of the sophomore-dance.
George PetUcord, Bdta Theta PI fraternity, In charge .of refresh, ments; Stanley .-Abbot,' Alpha, ,Tau Omego fraternity,- music -master;^ Earl  Bobel^ Slgma 5hl - Epsilons fa.vor'men':' 'Bob "Sbreve, KappF Sigma ' fraternity, chairman, and' W. ' Henderson, ' publicity manager/ compose the committee In charge of the Inter-fraternity formal. All fraternity men are. welcome at this 
Wffalr.
COURSE IN LIGHTING 
TO OPEN NEXT MONTH
Curriculum Enlarged Through 
Efforts of Electrical League .
Ineo-operatlon with the Carnegie Institute of' Technology, officers of the Electrical League of Pittsburgh and the Pittsburgh-Chapter of the 
Illuminating Engineers' Society are planning to hold their second course In Lighting next month, according to an announcement. '
The course. It Is Announced, will. Include six evenings of lectures and demonstrations scheduled from Januar^ 11- u> January 27. A tea-, ture In connectioD with, the work of tbe course is that any oiie Interested in illumination problems Is eligible to take the course either In full or In'part. The work Is designed to -bo of practical.benefit to electrical equipment dealers, electricians, central station- employes, reflector manufacturers 
and all others concerned with Improved Hlumluatlon.
Tlie staff of lecturers' fur the course is announced as follows: January 11, Units and Lighting Concepts,, by C. W. Prlne. assistant professor of phyBlcs, Carnegie Institute of Technology; January-19, "Lighting' Sources, Reflecting and Diffusing Media, by Professof H.. S. Hower,. head of tbo Department of Physics^ Carnegie Institute of Technology; January IS,. Industrial Lighting. by -W. -E. Conley, Illuminating engineer, Na-' llonal Lamp Works, General Eleo. trie Company; January 20, Commercial, Office and Public lighting," by A. B. ODay, engineer In. charge of lighting practice, Edison Continued on Page Three)
Professor Steidle Lectures On
The Aspects of Resuscitation
.Many deaths caused by asphyxiation could be avoided If more cities and organizations used proper methods of resuscitation,. Edward 
Steidle, professor ofmlnihg at Cartlcal. Aspects of Resuscitation. .
'Many cities and towns have no resuscitation devices whatever, he 
declares,: and a large number are using-so-called lungmotors and pul- inotors which rwere- condemned as life saving appaiatiis by -tjie United 
States Bureau of Mines-and the United Stages Public Health Serv
ice 12 yean , ago, and laterby the "association of Fire and'PbllCe Sur
geons. .  ';,;-,vgoUi; :of. these types.of. Jnstrti-. ments are positive pressure devices .foVtdmlnlfttering-'artlflclalrcaplratlon, he points out. Iu the course 
of .exhaustive Investigation, lie reports, It was found that mechanical devices of this character do not conform to natural breathing; on the. other hand, they- distlirV the natural.rylhm. ot breathing, which. Is controlled .by carbon .dioxide in the different portions of the liing' cells. .< Furthermore,- it-was found,1 that the 'excessive pressure and stictlon developed : by: mechanical devices* rupture the delicate -lung 
tissue, and actually do more harm. tUan good.'
' in studying practical and :up-to- date methods of artificial respira
tion,'' Professor Steidle. finds that the -'best methods-now.-in' use in*' cludcappUcaUonofthe;',Schaeffer method of: manual Ruuipulation of '(Contlnied on Page Three.)-.
2ND: SEMESTER 
TRYOUTS SUN. 
FOR GLEE CLUB
Trials For Glee Club Can
didates Will be Given Sun. 
Afternoon, Room 158, Arts
H.B. GAUL IN CHARGE
Club To fifoto Several Interest* 
ing Trips Within Next 
Few Months.
The Glee Club is holding n special sesBlon'next Sunday afternoon, 
to try out . additional candidates that failed to answer the first call' dt: the; beginning - of .the' .semester Harvey B. Gaul, the genial director of the singers, will bear each can' didate personally between the honrs of 2:30 and 4:90 Sunday In Room 150 on the mezzanine Moor ot ibe College of Fine Arts. This oN a. big opportunity, especially for the Plebos; .read the, rest of the article and be convinced.
The choice event on the Glee Club calendar is tlie annual Home Concert given In the Carnegie Music Hall , followed by a dance, that 1s always one of the best of the school year. The date this year. March 26. 1N particularly good, coming at a time when there
The following tclogram tian received at the.Wooillawn Club, on Sunday, January 2, 1927, - at 2:46 p. m. Crom the Executive Council of.the Pbi.Kappa Pei Fraternity, tn. session at Atlbbtlc'City,'New. JerThe Executive Council bus this day granted a charter to . Wood* lawn Club. The Council welcomes .you. to the Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity, and desires to convey Individual and unanimous felicitations. Trusting that Pennsylvania Mu may occupy a high place lu tbe fraternity.
Signed HOWARQ C. WILLIAMS,President. THOMAS' A. COOKSON.Secretary.The above .telegram ended the elgnt years of petitioning by tbe "Woodlawn Club for a charter from the Pbi Kappa Pel Fraternity/ a 
long and arduous task necessl* tated by-the conservative spirit of the national fraternity that- bas only- granied two chapters in the last 12; years.
thy.ie a lull In the Home Concert will as'this year Is the first that th< Glee Club will be recognized, as a real musical organization, meriting publicity and criticism by the musical editors of tbo dally papers, and bringing praise for tbe school and the members of tbo organization. .
The.Glee Club Irone ot the two outstanding hon-athletie activities, awarding silver keys for two years membership, and gold keys for four years, the awardB being the 
regular activities key- authorized by the Student Council, the highest recognition it Is possible to achieve. Now that a great ma- iorlty^of-the Plebes are pledges to fraternities, they will realize the great importance of -activities, for the development of their own personalities, and for tbe glory they 'bring to the fraternity. -^rnterebUng--alBO--t0'-poBalhleMcan.^ diddles are tbe trips made every year in all dlrectlona to spread the name of Carnegie. Often these (Continued on Page Three.)
NIGHT SCHOOL TO HOLD 
POST-HOLIDAY DANCE
The second In a series of four dances will (be. .held at tbe Carnegie Union January 8 by the student council of the Night Schools.Tbe first of these four tlRaces was the Thanksgivings necees Dance which, as the name indicates. was held during tbe Thanks- giTing-'yacathThliicond dance is called the Pout-Holiday dance and will be bold at the Carnegie Union from 9 to 12. Tbe Collegiate Six orchestra will furnish the music for tbe event The committee in .charge has set the admission at 91.00 per couple. The refreshments frill conBlat of punch. This is the first year that thla poat-hollday dance bas been given In previous years only -three .dances - had been-, sponsored by the Night Student Council but this year they decided
dancetheirIs the rsm for1926-27.The next dance will be the Washington birthday dance on the. 22nd of February, phe fourth, and last dance- sponsored by the nlgbt student council will be the Intcr-ntght school dance which will be held May 0.'
Capt. Harold C Lyons Dies in Washington, D, C.
Captain Harold C. Lyons, one of the highest esteemed men at Carnegie, died December 30, 1926, in the Walter . Reed hospital, Washington, D.; C., after, an" Illness of
Captain Lyons was one of those few Individuals possessing a personality, character and Ideals that compel the deep admiration of all who come In contact with him. Because of his unceasing efforts, the standard ot the JL O. T. C. at Carnegie has been raised Immeasurably. -- He was born In New York City January. 1883, and attended Princeton University, where he graduated from the engineering school with the degree of C. -E.-ln 1907.-;On August 15, 1917, Captain. Lyons entered the' army, and saw service overesas both during and utter the war. He was commissi^, ed a .captain In the regular army. He wa9 a' member of the Carnegte  chapter of Acacia- fraternity, Clt-" mas Club, Engineering. Society- .of Western Pennsylvania and Syria 
Mosque.. .Captain  Lyons .entered' Carnegie in 1923 and-bas-served as an. Instructor In Military Science Qad Tactics.' His Pittsburgh , address was 23O0> Plttock'street . Captain Lyons left the first, part of September for Washington to enter - the Walter Reed hospital there. -He.leaves bls wlfe/who attended him throughout' ble ll|neBB.
Woodlawn Club Qrauted Charter 
To the Phi Kappa Psi Fraternity
The Woodlawn Club was founded in; 1906 shortly after the doors of Carnegie were opened to students for the first time, and sgr known as',.the.Woodlawn Cottage Club. 
Tn4. named waa taken from the nstte of the street ott the campus on' which the house .of the Club was situated for the first 10 years oC*lts existence. On March the fourteenth, in* nineteen hundred ad ten. after four successful ycare, a meeting ot note was held 
^ which time tho name was for> mnjly changed to Woodlawn Club. . ,
The firpt pin of tho Woodlawn Club was In tbo form ot a crescent .wilh the lottor W over and con
nected with .the letter C and. each letter connected with a'point bn either eud of the croscent. In the year nineteen hundred- and thirteen tlie phi. as now worn, a shield Inifront ot;a 'swojd,  was, adopted. Upon the 9bleld are these symbola:- n\Rtar. crescent, and key.- AcrosB tbe, center is written "Woodlawn. . In. the year nineteen hundred and (Continued! on Page Three.)
Science Stag Prom
ises to be Best Yet
Everything is in Readiness 
For Big Science, ^chool 
Event Extraordinary
EXPECT MANY GRADS
A week from this Friday marks the date of tbe much talked, of Science stag. This event extraor
dinary which is exclusively for those of the sterner sex. promises to be as good, and, If such a thing- -is- possible, even better, than any In forme^ years.
. Thu pvlco will be tlie same, as In former years, 60 cents, this Includes an evening chuck full'of entertainment from 7:30 to 1:00. Faculty stunts, class stunts, alumni' stunts, all of which are better than- ever and guaranteed not .to 'pass the Pennsylvania Board of Censors, yes, and that reminds usj there will be a movie Included in' the program, not to mention the far-famed' popularity contests and last but ;not leaBt- a plentltude of Ba^^.wlll.be.v-eexyedvet-the-com- monset which " have been, 
brought torth only after the beet' efforts of th Beanery chefs,
Tho tickets for tbls event will be. on sale starting either the.latter 'part, of this week-or the flrstiof. next weekand It is tbe advice of the committee that they be purchased early as In all probability the demand w!U exceed tbe sup-1
my..Invitations will bo sent to all the nenTby Alumni Vho total nearly a thousand, and In all probability many o( them will he on hand so come on ye olde grads and make the.event a true all Carnegie Science Stag! -: In'this year 'of years in the. history of Carnegie's fame In every Una
This event for men only will be as on' former years, held In the Union, and. lest we forget, the price wlll.be fifty cents, the time 7:30 to 12:00 a week from tbls Friday night and a program, faat moving; and chuck full from beginning to end of quality unsurpassable as well as a f&vor and eats extraordinary will fill the evening with what may be lerrnd one big 
night
PLEBE ALL-CARNEGIE 
DANCE AT UNION JAN. 7
Joe Herbst in Charge of Plebe 
Committee For Dance
The Plebes will hold their first social event next Friday, January -7. This event, will be the Freshman All Carnegie dance which will be held at the Carnegie Union'. Tho admission will be 91.50. per couple and the tickets will' be on sale nt :he dance.Margaret Weiner, a Margaret Mon-iBQn Plebe. has,charge of the. refreshments. And decoration. Sha wilt 4'ably assisted by . several plebes who stay at tbe dormB. Joe Herbst, who will be the general
affairs. 'Bower Maze, .President of the Engineering aud IndusirjW Freshman has charge of Che' music'. / He promises a flr. orchestra to pro,- ylde'.thc syncopation.Margaret Wenr, who. Is chairman of the committee In cnargc of
has : made the following - preparations for the dance. The .'decora- lions will Include the artfui blending of the .various' class colors. She has. also arranged some tuaty refreshments to.be eerced..';-'! The following-' people have, been asked to chaprone the daiice: Mr. and Mrs.;. Kirkpatrick, Dean and Mrs. Tarhel, D^an Green and Dean and Mrs. Ihrig.n .
The patrons of the danee form an illustrious list. They are: President Baker, Director.'.and.'Mrs. Mott. Miss Breed, director ot Margaret Morrlson.and"Mr. Keeble, director ot th collge of Fine Arts.
184 Men Pledged in 
Fraternity Rushing
Results Are Little Different 
From Those of Last 
Year's Season
RULE CHANGE SOON
.minds of many as one ot tbe hectic and disorganized melees of all times. There .has been, and .will be a g^eat. de&l of discussion, ;b\it the fact' i remains that more Freshmen were; . pledged at this irushlng' season than there wero lost year.. .The- addition ot 14 :Qmes to: the list published Just *rlor to Christmas bacation brings :the total. to 1B4. Last year the 
number of new pledges ZSS 161.
. /The very slight difference in the numbers' of men pledged - leaves no basis tor discussion, but the real tost ot tbe late rushing period wjll.be ln February, when the semester grades are recorded. A sur- yjy ; pr (he -grades of: both .trater* wiy:'tnen''aha the "new"piedgeai 'as compared with tbe midsemester 
-grades and those ot laat year, may lead to some interesting facLs.
The average number of men 
pledged 1Nb .9.0 :per,',fraternity, as against last years 6.6.' The numbers of men varies from 2 to 19 ', whereas last-' year tbeirlatloi> 19.
- The complete llat'of follows:
PHI SIGMA KAPPAJ. Lester, R. Davis, C. Shaw, ^O. Gabier, J. Basler, G. Warner, G. Line.PI KAPPA ALPHAZacharson, WllklnB, Swem, HarMnson, C. H. Relchnbacb.' SIGMA ALPHA EPSILON  J. Morley. B. Langfltt W. 'Gary, L. Dunn, EtUridge, C. McMunn, R. Taylor, G. F. Mitchell.' SIGMA PHI EPSILON  G. Shmutz, T. Sblels. C. Kenny, W. Baldwin, H. White, T. Daugherty, E. Perry, P. Creely, A. Spelokler, J. Ward, R.' Deverell, R. Scott. - SIGMA NUF. I^rey, K. Howe, W.i Lefler, J. Ward, R, Smith. C. Campbell, R. Norris, B. Flnnle, J. Bair, M. Mortimer, T. McCombs, J. Stine, G. Wile, It Bowman.THETA XI  C. Suesaerott, C. Selsam, H. Dowhower. J. Bond, W. Edwards. H. Carlstedt, M. Dinger, H. Butz.WOODLAWN CLUBP. Droste, IL Goebrlng, B. Maze, S. Warner, R. McLeod, H. Lu&dbrg, R. Kam- bach. c. Wangeman, S. Holver, Stott and Nel Russel!ALPHA SIGMA PHIR. Daum, Gibson, Mlrvosh, Canulng, Kocher,H. Schaffer, Woodruff, E. Stone, W. Stone. Rosing, Greve. W. E. Woods.ALPHA TAU OMEGAR. Wagner, Seeley, J. L. Ralston, Bell, McKeever. Becker.BETA SIGMA RHO  L. Cohn,H. Cohen. J. Borman, H. Levinson, St Kabakov, J. Carpe, M. Blleteln, 'W.! RoBe, D. Fisher.BE7TA THETA PIL. Garbor, D. Snodgrass, C. Bowers, J; Snyder, C. -Glahart,, N. Gabriel, G. LeBou- litller, J. Herbst, , C. Young, T. Browu, w: Bowser, D. Shafer, G. Hutchinson, G. McKiniey, W. Brown, Charles Nelson.DELTA MUC. Miller, C. Cable, G. Shlndel, It Edgett, H. Lind-' qulst,-*E. Ullum, . J. Wilhelm, R- " eps, F '
'*> w-Continued on Page Three)
MEETING OP ONTARIO- , A. S. H. V. E. ADDRESSEDBY CARNEGIE PROF.
Professor Samuel E. Dibble, head of 'the Department, o! Plumbing, Hiatlng and Ventilating at the Cnrnegio Institute of Technology, was'th.e'speaker at the meeting or the Ontario ^Chapter; Canadian Division. of the. American, Soclety- of Heating and VeMnatlng Engineers, last- , night- in Toronto, Ontario.'' Professor Dibble', who' Is a member of the research 'commltteeof the Amerlcan-Soclety of Heating and -VentJ'iating. Engineers, spoke 
on -the progress of the work-1 being done ln the Research-Laboratories of the Soclety, located In the PittaINAUGURATE 
THISTLE CAM
PAIGN ON WED,
Wednesday Campaigns Of
fer Final Chance For Sub
scribing to 1927 Thistle"
TO CLOSE SALE SOON
Year Book Will Immortalize 
Bigg&st Year In Car
negie History.
The fifth ot aperies ot,Wednes
day "Thistle Days will take place tbls week. The time left for ordering a -1S27 Thistle 1s rapidly nearing its limit, and it is doubtful It tho yearbook will bo obtainable, lor more than three or four weeks from this date'. - It Is advlco' to those who want onebut are merely putting it off^'.tbat they 
subscribe this Wednesday.Salesmen wlU be In every corridor ot evory building between the hours ot 11:30 and 1:30 and books can be ordered at that time. Tbo advance subscription price Is $2.50 which will Insure the subscriber 
of obtklnlng a yearbook.The SenlorB aro especially, urged 
to take advuntuge ot th Wednesday sale. Every Senior In Carnegie will want' a .yearbook to remember the .last days of Carnegie It Is a manuscript which in latter years becomes pricelessa record 
of all the events ot those happiest days ot ones life. .One of tb big features ot the yearbook',this yeur will be the ath
letic sectionthis will be a- complete Innovation from anything in former yearsas la only fitting the tecords of the great victories over Notre Dame and Pitt will -be given a prominent place in tho book. No one who. is a true booster ot Carnei gle can afford to be without a '1827 Thlstlo." - What better way could one preserve tbe.memory ofyear which has made bli
wide.The work on the book is rapidly progressing and it should & to press within a few . short woeks, Some of.the photography remains to be completed nnd;a..l1ttie mami> script .la- yeVto-' be-1 wrttteB^'hbw*: ever the number to be prlhtod 
muat be known within three or four weeks and as this Is based- solely on' the number subscribed forthose who wish to subscribe mustr order very. 'sho'rtJy.-' 'Why not come prepared to subscribe this -Wednesday, apd assure yourse\t of getting a 1927. Thistle. The chronicle of an extraordinary college in an extraordinary year of Its hisYork Mfg. Co. Donates 
Machine to Mech. Dept.
Tho York  Manufacturing Company ot York, Pa., has. just donated the Department of Mechanical Engineering a full size, soctlonnl- lzed model of a two-cylinder amonia compressor.  'About four years ago the York Company turntshed a very complete five-ton refrigerating plant
dergraduate sudy.
The model just furnished will bo Kfjnled alongside off the com- :esBor used in the test plant 'so nt as tho students aro carrying n experiments in refrigeration ley will be abe to study the action of the compressor, since the model Is an exact duplicate of tbe actual machine.The original lest plant was planned largely by Professor Estep and It was through his efforts that the model was secured.The ' Department ot Mechanical Engineering Is to be congratulated upon securing this valuable addition to their equipment and the York Manufacturing Company 1s U> be thanked for their generous
TARTAN STAFF TOHOLD IMPORTANTMEETING WED, NIGHT
cm Important meeting of the en
tire Tartan staff, Including all reporters, and all persons who ere in anyway connected with Tartan work wlli-be held ot the Woodlawn club,\WednBday ' night at 8:00 
P-.'-' It Is very Important' that oU persons connected with the Tartan bo prsent .at this mooting as much ot the work for tbe. remainder-of the year will be.outlined and dis*, cussed.A review of tho work which hns been accomplished so far this yoar will be brought up and nny difficulties which have come up will be Ironed out. <It Is'essential In fact Imperatlvo 
that all Tartan men and women be present at this, meeting Wednesday nlght.'January G.
PLUMBERSTOHOLD 
ANNUAL INSTITUTE
Carnegie to be Host For 3rd 
Annual Meeting of Ven
tilating Engineers
DATE IS JAN. 18,-19; 2Q
A group ot about 900 mastor plumbers and ventilating engineers from' . Pennsylvania and-nearby slates is- expected .to attond the third annual Three-Day Institute for Plumbing, Heating and Ventilating Industries at Carnegie Instl- of Technology, January 16, 19, and 20, Dr. C. B. Connelley, dlrec- or of Industrial relations, an- lounced yesterday.
Tills years Institute, like IhoBe of the two preceding yoars, baB been planned to give master plumb- tecbn|cal,'infpraaUon thnt Is difficult for- ttiipRL to obtain oUier- ' The lociiiroB and demonstrations listed in the-program have boon outlined to acqunlnt those ivtlended with seml-sclentlfie faats useful In their trade and to stlmulAto appreciation and. interest In the technical features of sanitation problems, ; >
Among tho subjects of tbe tec- ireB to be given will be Business and SalesmanBhip, Welding in the Plumbing and ' Heating Industry, 
Chemistry of Plumbing and Heat* Ing, Building Construction, Plumb- li)g^nd'HeatlnglagUUlatlon,'WatQr Supply'and' ' ' Sewage " Disposal. 
Plumbing' end Healing as They AiTeci-.Henlth and th Plumbing Code. , . . '
Newcomers on the special faculty of lecturers for'the Institute 
S year will Include Dr. Walter F. (Continued on Paxe Three.)
PRPARATIONS, FOR 
WOMENS JR. tROM
Lucille Galmlsh Heads Com* 
mittee Directing Affair
Sophs Stage Successful Banquet At Sewickley
The class of '29 .bravely held up Its end' of a heavy tradition on 
Wednesday night. December 14. Then It was that the sophs feasted merrily and waxed warm over the convolutions of a maiden enter- Ulner. The banquet was held at Elmhurst Inn, near Sewickley. A delightful meal was served, at which there was a noticeable absence of bananas and ham saud- vlches/Thu Plebes. as -behooved their lass spirit, generally, were fast to 
discover th^t something was happening. The local telephone com- as enriched-by thousands, of nickels as the class of 30 tried collectively, and individually to discover. what It was 'all about' - They did; and orrlved at the scene of the the lut dish was being dried. . ' >" .However, as there: was (hen no apparent reason- for disagreement, both; classes rode back on the same train; {There were: so; few.: fresh. menl present, later thougli, ttiat'-jt- thought they - might have 'stayed:
The Womens Junior Prom will be held February 26. In the English room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, it was inced Friday. LUUe has been, divulged as to the nature of tbe affair, but, plans aro under way to make this function one of the out-, standing social events of. the year.
The orchestra has not yet been, selected, but some of the best muslc-nmkers available re being considered, Including such, baneo as "The Prince of Wales, Dave Harmons," and many other out- standing orchestras.*
-An elaborate mld-nlght dinner will be served In the dining roqm. The committee/ for tbe decorations has already 'started worlc, and beautiful appointments for both 
the English room and the dining, room nre under way.
.The Waya and Means commtttee. under the direction- of Christine Groy.es, Margaret Mbrrlson, le contemplating on  bridge, or bake sale to help defray expenses.
The chairmen of tho ' various committees fcre as follows: - Lucillo Galmlsh, General Chairman; Betty-Burkhoude, Treasurer; Harriet Welgal, - Secretary; Mid Young,-Merion-Belllnger, Publicity; 
Betty ^gileh,-.-.Location;.; Louise Roth, Dinner; Mary McGuire, Decoration; Catherine Wyman, Favo.'
The very evident success of the' first "Tea Fight, held in behalf of th 1927 ArtsBall, hos lnduced.the comlttee to stage anothr rebellion,' which, will be vheld . Thursday, January. 13. At' th first dance the .chief objcct was. to "'acquaint. the freshman 'boys and girls,; and- to Induce u;. general -lively* spirit 1n conjunction with the Arts Ball. 
The Idoa is now rlfe'on-the campus that the .27 ball IS going to far; surpass ' any of past years.. We have done everything well- this yeir, - f ootbnll,ancs, ; rushing, e t. ; Ther,es Is ' no .apparent ireMbii ^why; Vhe Arts,'B^l ihouldinotcrwn 1 glorious yoar.-..,- Chairmin^Aniold Perreton urges the. plebes 'to get their work cards filled out, so that preparaLions may 
be ; completed Quickly , as jiossK.
are In atoVe.1 fbW|,'wprk.:hard make this rears baU the best n history. -
VARSITY QUINT 
TO PLAY FIRST 
GAME JAN. 8
WestVirginia University to 
be Played at Morgantown 
in Opener of 1927 Season
IRWIN IS OPTIMISTIC
Captai Hard, Amans, Harpster, tynoh- and WMto ' , 
Probable Starten.
Nuxt Saturday evening. Coach 
John Invlns basketeers will Inaugurato their 1927 campaign, against 
West Virginia University at Mor> 
gofltown.': The. Mountaineers pro
vided the opening entertainment 
for the Tartans Inst year, and'tho 
speedy Sklbos were returnod vio 
torlouB otter a . gruelling battle. 
This yenr thoy hope to repeat Roports emanating from the Rangers 
hauuts . however 'toll of a veteran 
aggregation ''under the. guidlng: 
haindB of Coaoh Btadsvold, a' team; 
which ibids fair to cut Quite a swbtb 
among the leading contendere in 
tlie Tri-state district- ' ' -
* Despite the root that two former 
varsity regulars,- ponohqe. and Mo*, 
fort, are ineliglblo duo to BCholas-" 
tlo work, this yoars enund at Car
negie sbapos up. as one .of the.beBt . 
In tho history of tho school; - With : 
former eaptaln "Toots" Amans, ' 
all t^l-state forward; last >year,; 
flanked along side of CapuUn Ray 
Hurd at tho forwards, (he Scots 
boast ono of the beet scoring ma* 
chines they'have'had for a long 
time. . White and Crum, brilliant 
forwards of last years groat-fresh-, 
man outilt, are In'the best of shape 
oaily to Jump Into the breach \ 
In caeo 'anything happens to the 
two veterans.At tho Jump-off position, Harp- ster and Kalock ore: waging: a merry battle to determine who , shall get the first calL Harpster played a great game at the pivot . position ;onl Inst yoars Pletm. team. whtrt^KallooW'^^^v'tii^'aU-lntor-' frnlercl ly basketball SQloctlone last winter and was'a' member of the PI Kappii Alpha.:qulnlet, pennant 
wlnnnra la3t yeaf.) A't the.'guards, W:aHy: Lynch,'; a rogular two years ago, Is'back in school after n. years layoff, 'Snd . seems certain .to have the first call: for one of tho defensive positions. ; Wolly combines first: rate guarding* ability with accurate leng-dlstancsi : shooting,, an ideal. comWnatlpo^ : Stauffer and Hitchcock' will bcthr; probably see much service at. the' other open guard- position. ' Wost and Eflcher are aIbo-: shaping 'tip weir inpractice, aiidgtve.'promJse-. fif providing roai .-competition - to-r tlie rpgiilars In the near' future.
-AI Sebastian; stellar varsitr guard, throughout iMt season, ;exr- tO' register at' mid-year,' amE: his addition will- certainly give are added, pupch -io lhe - squad at*'that. lime.:' :. '4 'V
Christmas'recess. Previous to the '- holiday's, stiff workouts with Bom' of Pittsburghs' reputed independent jteams wore 'Indulged. In, - and thp varsity displayed a;redrbrind . ot baskebball whjch-presages .areal', 
air.of optimism' for the 'cumnt Beji--
Night Courses Reopen; 
Examinations Announced
The nlglit .t-qurseB ln.'tlie: Carnegie Institute of TQchnologyi will re- i. after Christmas !.yaatlon, on Monday.' evening,y^aliuary'3, 192T. New. atwdeh'ts cah be accepted -'in. the following shop. and', studio 
^College of . Industries Foundry, Machine, Work,/Mechanical Draftingi. Structural and Architectural Drafting, Forgingand Heat T^-oatmont i-of' steel, 'Sheet Metal,- Printing, - Bricklaying-and 
Masonry.. Heating and ..Ventilating,. .W[eldlng and .Woodwork. In' the- Arts Coliege tt pr^ehand', Draw lug, Palhilngi   Architectural ' Design and Scuipture: are- offered..
identa can be'admitted for instruction'on-muelcallnBtrumenta AppU^.ntsfor'adnilasIonBhoiUd report at the registrars office Ini the 'Central building .between .7:0.0 and 8:30 any'we^-day'eyening (except-Saturday.):- Further, information may be obtained by- addressing the Registrar, Carnegie institute of Technology. ;:. - :-
Exaralnatlons . for -removal . of conditions . will be betd- January 20.
ed in- ' aiibjects i&st June r aro : i iilred t; take .the examinations; c celve  grade of R ln th-doiib fulsubject.-'.EsmlnatUkys.-nsjolli x v-.'janury'.>2<>^lgebrev^'S:. i VmD 12 m.;En*leh. 1:00'p. m. to 3:00 :ri;' Pyslca,;.3:O p/.m- to^iOP; tn. ;. Genral: Hl8tiy, 3:CHD:i>; m; -.:6:00l R.-> . V. v:January 2U Plane, Geometry, 
S01id<.Giii,:'3:00 p.' m.- to,5:00

---------------------------------------------------

wkaTMi* at 
BiutaMU Wrld
When your school life I* over buslmworld, you will' appreciate the bank conneetlone that  you form today.* The flxpert>'
which a bank affords -will strengthen , your confidence' and make Hkety your chance* of suceegc. . ( . Regardless of'i the size of -your account you will find 'here a seVii1jV spirt of serv- Im In the eanduct of your f)>  We Invite
Joyce Semce
Christmas and Holiday 
it reasonable HMSA we supply the borne table and Holiday Ivltles with seasonabledelicious Goodies and Novel- ties.
Fruit cake, Plum Pudding, 
Candles. Pies, - Bread, Bis
cuits/ Pastries, lee Creams and Ices Ideally made of 
quality materials.
' Ttfotor delivery twice dally.
MANOR THEATER
Stanley - Rowland-Clarks Manor Theater-offers .foor/ wonderful plcires to Its patrons tbls coming eek, starting Wednesday and Thursday.with Rex lognrn's latest masterpiece. "The Magician" starring Alice Terry with a strong aupporting cost ot foreigners, the plot being Maid is Paris and Monte irto and the picture filmed on the tiial locations. Friday "Tbe pular Sin" with beautiful Fierce Vidor starring' end' Cll' Brook supporting her. Be Np id see what this popular sla I iturday,. Harry Langdon, King of Komedy in The Strong Mi  The picture starts 1N Belgiumip in a email town- in Indiana with Harry as tbe stage comedl; Monday and Tuesday "Tbe White Black Sheep with Richard Barth- s and Patsy Ruth Miller, 
story deals with the black sheep of a floe English family wbo Sods himself East or tbe Suez as uber of tbe English Foreign Legion. L -ASO comedies and new?: with each change .of feagram thi Wednesday and Thursday with Tbe Popular <Sln" with beautiful Vidor and Cliv Brook supporting her. Be sure And find
Friday and Saturday Harry Langdon the fanny man of tbe BCreen his latest Tbe Strong Man. He couldnt lift a dumbell. bul 
should see blm with, the girls. Monday and Tuesday Thomas 
Melghan in bis greatest role, that of a farmer of the great northwest in The Canadian." AIbo selected unedles and news events with ich change of feature.
Elliotts 
Two Stores 
Headquarters 
For Practical 
Gift Things
Both our Stores are treason chests of nseful Gift artlcles- . many .. of them entertaining Ii their usefulness.
Microscopes {. , Everything.Optical
Theatre TipsALUMNI PAGE
STRANO THEATER
nloy-RowIand-Clarts Stninr offers? pleas!; protbeopulai
SCHENLEY
ore outstandingly vgood enter- ment Is promised for the Schen- Theater. Forbes street. Oakland district. 'this week. ; Monday and ay, January 3 and 4, brings delightful comedy drama. :t Rosie O'Grady," the story of a Bowery belle who becomes a Fifth avenue princess. On Wednes- Thursday. January 5 and C, tho attraction will be tbe extraor- Inary nine-reel spectacular Ibrlll roductlon, "The Flaming Front and 1led as cplcluiTbeFriday and Saturday, JanuE and B. will be the popular po ai comedy, "Tin Hats." with ilobrated cast, including Com 
agel, Claire Windsor. Geoi Cooper,' Bert Roach and . TiOn thei stage throughout the week le Jack Pltzers Orches- si clever musical organzlation n performers. "Tbe Return of r Grim/' a marvelous adapta- of David Belasco's stage triumph, will be presented Monday ind Tuesday, January 10 and 11.' When the Armistice was signed,
long the specially honored guests were 'two members of this years team, Newt Cowan and Bill Manby of .Lancaster! The boys were royally received and in turn the assemblage' a review of tbe past season.
John G. Todd was toastmaster of .the dinner, and James J. RudlBll] >f York was one of the principal speakers. The committee In e included Henry Shaub. Mr. Todd. Mies Virginia Wallis and Rllchel Lawrle. A very good or* ihestra provided the music for dancing. ;The guests'attending were: Mr. id Mrs. Edwin Green. Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. Bushong, Mr. and F. M. Hlghberger. Mr. and 
Ritchie Lawrle. Mr. and Mrs. y Stone, Mr. and Mrs. J. W. MJnick, Mr. and Mrs. Clayton J. Lapley, Mr. and. Mrs. Samuel Jam- A SMOI MleB Virginia Wallis. Miss Claire Lutz. Miss Clarabel Nlaalay, John G. Todd. Ralph S. Posslnger. Leo Marah. Gerald SieberU M. Dale Smith. B. Merlon Shields. 11 of Harrisburg.Mrs. Mary -McKerlgan, Philadelphia; Mr. and Mrg. W. H. Oakley, Reading; Mr. and Mrs. Henry Y. Shaub. Miss Louise Roy, Miss Mildred Hlmelbiight, Mlse Lucille Musselman, Newt I. Cowqn. William H. Manby. John C. Stouffer of ister; Miss E. C. Garber, Mt. Arthur G. Speckler. Elizabethtown; Mr.and Mrs. J. J. Rudi-, III, York; Miss Mlldren Wise. New Cumberland; RUBsell M. Welgle,
and Philadelphia, but reports of heso have not yet come In.- Many loclat affairs are being held at his season 'by the various clans.
i* few, i
afted
lust the least bit disappointed to think they never hcul an :unlty to get into the argu- tr is about these Jew that 
Edward Sedgwick spun his yarn, 'Tin Hats. The story concerns three doughboys, one a rich mans son, played by Conrad Nagle; r, a New York the servtce, played By Gi ter, and th third, an Ame 
of a St. Louis Dutch bn played by Bert Roach. Those three line trenche: time to hear tbe rofer>< bat "That's all there la auy more. However 
the plot thickens when they ar< r with the Armj id tliolr 1 subee- make iho wi turday Evening Strawberry Festival, back tucket Claire Windsor Vou Berger, a titled German girl, is t the story, and with 
Conrad Nagel, supplies tlie love iiu
top .sergeant
of the great popularity, 
been touring the princlTHE COLLEGE SHOP
THE PLACE FORSNAPPY COLLEGIATE TOGS 
4618/2 FORBES STREET Near Craig
Of course you can go to
EUROPE
14 aplendid.snidcnc conn under tne expert management of an old established agcncy. 44 to64 days of unequalled Inter' est a Scotland. England, Hoi- land.Bclgiiun.Francc,1Germany, Switzerland and Italy. June to September*485 ut.
GATE S
TOURS 
225 Fifth Ave., N.Y.
BiutaMiUW MB rlt itd CMrlt
.Mens, $6.00-^Color: Grey. .Womens, $6.50Color.-;: Blue, Lilac, Green, and 
red. ;Aufhanuner and Evans
6100 PEHW AVENUE
HARRISBURG PAR
TY GREAT SUCCESS
Cowan and Manby Guests 
At Artaual Christmas 
Dinner Dance
ABOUT 50 ATTEND
Tbe Harrisburg Clan held itfl slitb annoal dinner dapce on Mon
day, December 27, at Cravers Tea lmd in /Harrisburg, and tbe af
fair. was a biggor BUccess than ever.' This party .is given each year during the holiday season especially' for -the students home
iei-3 are veterans In their and tbeir experience has thoroughly schooled them In the' things*tbe public llbes. They know constitutes a good program arc 'equaily competent In' get- t across. Tbeir production at this Schenley Includes not only t presentations of the latest
well. The t se the orciwho call iIn thqir varied lines.The Schenley'a bills are changed completely each Monday,'Wednesday and. Friday. Supplementary subjects "will Include news pictures, comedies and novelty films. Performances are continuous from each day, and parklii for le abundant.
FACULTY BULLETIN
1BUREAU OF INFORMATION: At the meeting or the Executive Board December 8 the fol
lakimoffice
on the campus which Involve tions with tbe public, especially the granting oi rooms for lecl 
meetings, etc..'shall teleplion president's secretary, who wi tliy the registrar and the chief telephone operator.'The registrar's office shall be regarded as the bo-. of InimatloiThisto be published In the Faculty Bulletin.2SALARY VOUCHERS: Salary vouchers for the month of December will be Issued Friday, December 17. ' They may be called for at the cashiers office In the afternoon. The treasurers office will deposit ou the same day the
this done.3WOMENS CLUB OF C. I. T. The next meeting of the. club will
Baker will speak on "Some Political Effects ot Scientific Research In Europe. The hostesses will be Mrs. Francis ,k. Walters. Jr.,' 1 William T. Crandell, Mrs. H<K. Schmidt, Mrs. Sumner B. Ely, Mrs. Charles B. Stanton and Mrs. Joseph B. Rosenbach.4CALENDAR:Wednesday. Thursday and Friday. December 16. 16 and 17. 8:16 
p. m., three one-act plays by tho Night School students. Change of plays each night.Thursday, December 16, 12:60 p. m., Christmas Chapel.Saturday, December IB,-to Monday, January 3,.cWl8tmas'vacation. . . ,,4CHANGES IN PERSONNEL DIRECTORY:'Professor Hower, - Hazel' 3313-R.Mies Woifel, Franklin 2347-W. Gorham, Margaret-(Mrs.,R. C.), Secy., R. O. T. C., 112 Biddle street, Wllklnsburg' . Franklin /9873-M... 1-
Stewar.ty Mrs. Edith C., Stenogr., Aaat ; Controller^ Office, 7 Olympic. pla<MlrMayflower. 6028.... 1-230C. !. :0-^AS IN OUB EARLY DAYS; The'foiio^'lngcirpplng.ffomiaj^flCLAN NEWS
COLDEN GATE
The Golden Gate Clan meetings are again In full swing after the summer vacations: Th Clan celebrated its second birthday with -a. party at the borne of Mi-b. Inez Heacock PlUe, M17. which proved a huge success. Three new members tamed out .for the first time, G. M. Wh[flier, E20, with tlie Westlngbouse .High Voltage Ineu- Company, just recently tranft- ferred from Deny. Pa.; Misa Ruth K. Porter, M'26, and Frank I. Law- 20, who Is with the.Pacific Gas & Electric Company.The January meeting of tbe ,CIan will be held on Frldaiy,* the 14th. at
" Athens Athletic. Club in
i before the dinner dance.
NORFOLK
The fallowing telegram was re dved from the members of th< Norfolk Clan, on the occasion. o the banquet tendered! tbe entln football squad by the Chamber, o 3[amerce of Pittsburgh: 
"Enjoying banquet program. Al Norfolk .Clan sendB congratulation: ii and learn. Billy Sands 1912.
MILWAUKEE
Monthly luncheons are-held on the first Monday of each month at 
the Hotel Stratford fit 12:15 p- m. There were nine alumni present at the December meeting including Mr. S. Vet Williams and G._W. Curtis, who are recent additions to the Clan. It ie needleas to Bay that the chief topic of tbe conversation was the Carnegie Tech, victory over Notre Dame. E. G. Peterson. care thev. Cutler-Hammer Manufacturing Company, le preslCANTON
a meeting ' of the Canton , held November 20, at the on V. M. C. A., the following ra were elected: President,Virgil Whitmer. 621 Tenth street. V.; secretary, John P. Paca. Twenly-flfth street. N. W.; urer. Oden C. Hofiner, 416 ienth Btreet, N. W.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
ributed:r last June has bee
erred 1,626 .degrees, umber in her history, .has changed onalderably from the days whenl s the poet, tells us: 
md who waa in the Catalogue 
When college was begun?.Two nephews of the. President And' the Professor's son; >Lord, how the seniors knocked
The freshman class of.one! '6  GASOLINE CONTRACTS: The Welfare Committee ol the General. FacuUy .. .requests that those employes v of . the Institute- holding gasoline contracts and de- tlclpate in theI theof gasolim. the,cts thlE
7 THREE-DAY INSTITUTE:The third annual ' institute for the plumbing, heating and ventilat
ing Industries will be held January 18. 19 and 20, under the auspice? oe the Department of Industrial Relatione. Tho following members of the faculty will form the instructional -staff: Professors Rltt-man, Dibble. Lelghou, Dunnells, Lang and Dr. Decker.8PICTURE OF  CHRISTMASPARTY: Members of the facultywho -desire a picture of the childrens party may leave' orders at tho office ol the cashier. A copy will be on display there.9PERSONAL: Professor Wurts, who has been 111 at home for two months with a loug and serious attack'of shingles, Is now recovering in a most satisfactory manner. He
Indie'Professor Chester Wallace read the play, "Naboths Vineyard, before the McKeesport Womens Club on Friday, December 3.Professor Estop will speak on "Characteristics of. Fane" at tho conference of'the Mechanical section of the Engineers. Society of Western Pennsylvania and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers on Auxiliaries ot the
Professor Hubert Osborne, until last year a member of the Drama faculty and now with Professor Baker at Yale, staged "The Witch which recently. opened at the Greenwich. Village theater with Alice Brady as the- lead. 'Mr. Roniagnoll salle Wednesday on the Berengarla for Italy.The Musical, Forecast for December- contains a write-up of Protes-. sor 'Janson ot the Music departDr. Nathanson will read a paper on "The Variations with.State of the Optical Constants of Caesium before .the .American Physical Society at its meeting Ip Philadelphia December 28-30.Miss .Evelyn Cohen and'Mr. Alexander Wycoff,. former members ot the .Drama faculty, are now on.tho stall ot*tlie .Cincinnati Art Theater, which produced Rostands "LAjglon" on December ,30.., Professor.. .James attended ..the: meeting of tbe .American^ Institute' of, Chemical; Engineers vyhlch was held In Birmingham, and Atlanta^.
of the' Southern California .Clan, 
Mr. G. R_ Brandln: '
You-can easily, imagine that 
Carnegie beating Notre. Dame 
caused a lot of excitement and talk 
here in Southern 'California. Notre 
Dame played U. S. C. here in Los Angeles last Saturday, Just a week after we had beaten them. I think 
that all of the U. S: C. and Stanford fao&twere rather put out at 
oar beating the Irish, as it. stole some ot their smoke. Even If U. S.' C. had1 won lost Saturday it wouldn't have amounted to so much since Notre Damo was already beaten.
"Surely the game called foi celebration and the Southern California Clan pot It on last Friday night, December 3rd. We'bad another reason for putting on this party, which in fact, was the original idea, bat - the Notre Dame game came at just the opportune, time to make It a double celebration.
"Mary RlcaTd. A'20, who Is ope or our alumni, is taking one of the leading parts In "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes at tbeBelasco theater. She takes tbe part of. "Dorothy body agrees that she is the bit of the show.
Thirty-four members of the Southern California Clan wont to the theater last Friday night. We bad a large sign displayed in front the theater stating that this was Carnegie night. We bung a large Carnegie Banner in tbe lobby and or lilies of tbe valley tied with Tartu ribbons. .,
After the show we west to Millers Lafayette ror supper and dance. It ^as college-night .at tbe care and there were rooters from U. S. C., Stanford. Notre Dame. Michigan and many other schools, but of course, we outnumbered and out-cheered all ot them.
"Jack Meredith started It off by playing Dear Old Tech on the 
piano while the rest of us did our best to sing.
"A little later In the evening' a dancing contest was held and Col
onel Fred Foster, who. by the way, was tho first captain of a Carnegie football team, and announced as Buch, judged the contest. Mary Rlcard* and Bob Finkelhor stayed In tbe contest to the end and were second best. It would have been the crowning triumph for ust if we had been able to take away, the silver Dancing trophy.
"All of us on tbe coabt are hoping that 'some day Carnegie will have a team which will be Invited to tho coast to play the New Year 'toui'namiwill 1)ld to enjo:
er on "Unusual Factors In Plant .ocatlon and served on the educa- Ion committee ot the institute. 
-Nearly a thousand orders for tbe proceedings or the Coal Conference have been received by Mr.It is expected they wJll be ready for distribution February.
Malcolm Parcell. a former student of the . Painting-and Decora- department, has painted the alt of the late Presidoht-Er- DeWttt. Burton of the Unlver- pity ot Chicago, which has been presented to the. university by members of the faculties and his former students.Dr. . Walters and Dr. Frlauf-. of the Bureau of:. Metallurgical Research, will attend tbe meeting ot the American Physlcat Society and will read papers. Dr. -Walters on Absorption Spepti
Mr. Herman S. Pavla, the CAsh- er. who collapscd at the ofllcc wo weeks ago, is improving slowIng the anuual meeting or the American Society of Mechanical Engineers And the Taylor Society. He also attended to business tu New York and Baltimore in- con- nection with the publication of the proceedings ot the International conference .on Bituminous Coal.Mr. J. D. Beatty attended the National Association ot Building Trades' Employers annt Ing which was held De^ce
PITTSBURGH CIAN 
WILL HONOR YODER
Testimonial Luncheon at
Fort Pitt Hotel on
January 15
GOOD TIME ASSURED
The Pittsburgh Clan is continu* 
log its activities in 'the new year 
with a big testimonial dinner to be 
tendered to Lloyd Yder, captain 
of Carnegies great, team this yar, 
and selected' on the All-American 
team of Knute Rockne, Pop War
ner pnd Tad Jones. Th clan felt 
that since this Is the first selection 
Of any Carnegie Tech.player on 
this mythical team, the event 
should ' be duly ' celebrated. The 
luncheon Is to be held January 16. 
1927. at the. Fort Pitt Hotel, at 
X:00 p. m.
In addition to doing honor to 
Yoder, the luncheon will offer an 
excellent opportunity to start off 
right In the new year by renewing 
old friends. and acquaintances. It 
will be the first big event of the 
alumni calendar, and It Is hoped that It will be a success. Tbe committee promises that there will be no long speeches, but just a real good time.Those wlBhing to attend should send their check ($1.25 per plate).
206, Gymnasium Building, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. All alumni are Invited.
CINCINNATI
CLEVELAND
CLEVELAND WOMEN'S CLAN 
iv. 2289 IBe1lfld Avenue! cfcveMni 
e President, Mra..Nelte Bester Sparite
r ,13,Pejin Hotel, Pittsburgh.' Mr. Beatty asks the co-operntlon ot the faculty to keep the address graph list of alumni up to date. Members of the faculty, who receive mall Tor visits from alumni, are requested to send tlie latest address .or these men and women to tho Alumni recorders office, Room 166-C. Industries Building.On Friday, December 3, Director Connolley addressed the cltl2ens of .the Westwood borough on the 
Pittsburgh public schools; on Wednesday, December 8, he discussed. Industrial Education before the. members of the Lions Club of East Liberty, and on' ^Thursday,' December 9, he was an honor guest at the annual banquet of the Pittsburgh Builders Exchange.'Dr. Baker made , an address before' the American Association ot ^University -Women, which fnet in' tlie Margaret Morrison Carnegie faculty parlors last - Saturday night: The occasion was a reception for foreign students.Dr. Baker will.epeak qt the Sunday; chapel exercUes of the Penn-, sylvanla State College on January 
9.A HAPPY NEW YEAR.
VI 
BecMtuT and-'Tnaranr.' P. N. Dicker,
Preildont, W.
-DAYTON, OR FI ,W. Hckert. : 
DBTBOI
P Id* t, fli/ ]
Woodbine Street, Hrlebunr, Pa. 
Queen Stavot, Lancaster. Pa. Seertta HUNTINGTON, W. VA. &
' JOHNSTOWN, PA.
f,,gnh.ge ug..h
i9 Avenu M, Brooklpn, . cltr Manager, P. T. Stnltl . Dobertr ani Componi
dent, ' 8lPHILADELPHIAdin. Lynn E. ExHnc. 182
3,71K<? KcaX^Ettli (TiSe-PITTSBURGH
v Monmerit ni Avenue,
. Hall, 836 
r, are Standard
WASHINGTON.
YOUNGSTOWN.
ItlDian Street, Yoon
4405 FORBES ST. (NarCralp)
Reasonable Ratei
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C.M. STTTFT* ;
FORBES ANO BOQUET STS, 
-? ~ 'OAKLAND
CRAIG
STU1AI8T
412 SOUTH CRAIGi STREET. ;
Try Our 
Regular Dinners, 
40c and 50c
aRAII BGSTS1
^ BIJTLEE'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG- STREET We Deliver All Orders.J. O. BKER, Marfa'ser  Mayflower 7644
HAVE-YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH- ' FOR YOUR DANCE?
. This Coupon and 40e will entitle you to a 50c dinner. 
THURSDAY EVENING 4:306:00 P. M.
TRY OUR 36c L\lNCH 
Special^Pastries with Fraternity letters for occasions.
Shofalls Tea Risoia
'3710 FORBES STREET Phone Schenley 9318
P ATE O NIZE O E AD7EKTISEES
FOR YOUR NEXT;
FORMAL AFFAIR
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
First Church of Christ, 
ScientistClyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue Sunday, 11. A. M. and d P. M.. Wednesday, 8 P. M. Sunday School, 11A M.
Goodyear y/elt System 
4523 FORBES STREET 
WE REPAIR RUBBERS
Lets All Go To The
TECH
Barber Shop 
For Our Hair Cuts 
CBAIG AND 
FORBES
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRAIG AND FORBES STS.
Beginners Monday and Frli day. Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and Saturday EvjyjIng0.. Private lesBons by'appointment.______Mayflower 7391
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve^System
"The Oakland Bant*
Capital -- $300,000.00 
Surplus - - - $300,000.00 
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
MORE CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF;PORTABLE 
Before the daya of Corona most college worfc wae writ- ten-by hand. Now everything le typewritten. Youll find Coronas at work In every college In the world. 'Mor* are In use today than all other makes of portables combined. Come In and eee tho lateet model. It la the last word In . portable typewriters. .Standard four-row keybo
big.ard rlbbcinm
Prlec
some bargalns ln used Coronas as low as $25.00. 
STANDARD TYPEWRITER' feoMPANY  
129 FIFTH AVENUE Atlantic 0342
STANLEY-ROWLAND-CLARK'9MAMOi
Rex Ingrams 
THE MAGICIAN 
Alice Terry
. Friday, January 7'
The Popular Sin 
Florence Vidor 
Clive Brook
Saturday, January 8 '
HARRYLANGDON 
The Strong Man
Richard Barthelmess 
The While BlaokSheop
STMAMB
Florence VMar 
Clive Brook
Harry Langdon
"THE STRONGJAN"
Thomas Mei^han 
"The Canadian
GET YOUR STUDENT TICKET FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
Schenley Theater
Irst Floor and Balcoriy^-2Sc 
Mezzanine3 60 
HARRY DAVIS, General Manager>od Theater Ip Plttsblirgh.
: WEDNESDAY ANO THURSDAY, JANUARY S AND 
- The Flaming Frontier
Years-Tremendous nine-reel spectacle with 
DUSTIN FARNUM.iANNE CORNWALL, HOOT GIBSON. WARD CRANE, EDDIE GRIBBON, GEORGE FAWCETT
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, JANUARY.7 AND 8 -
TIN HATS
ADDEO ATTRACTION ALL WEEK
Jack Pitzers Orchestra
Ten Specialists of Melody and Rhythm with Program of Class   _____ .and Variety. ,
MONDAY AND TUESDAY. JANUARY 10 AND 11
The Return Gf Peter Grimm
Marvelous Adaptation of David Belasco's Stage, Triumph with;: 
JANET GAYNOR,. ALEC B. FRANCIS JOHN ROCHE, RICHARD WALLING, FLORENCE"GILBERT, LIONEL ___ 8ELM0RE, JOHN ST, POLIS 
Wrnrnmm
PA,TE ONIZE OU B AD VE fi TISEKS

---------------------------------------------------

On the Plaid Screen,
By WILLIAM R. BERNARDI
Wtt Virginia at MorgarI Saturday, playing
considerable time In
Tablet to.be Erected in the 
Gymnasium; Luncheon . 
at Fort Pitt Jan. 15
THfe INTERFRATERNITY basket ball committee has finally divided the.league lnlo sections, and intends lo draw up a schedule at its next .meeting; . -There'are iour sections this year, in order to simplify Ute playing ot the finals.
BULL YODER will again Ihonored when the Pittsburgh Clai Frt Pitt, on Saturday, Januar;
MIKE GOODWIN and Yoder played splendid games for the' East' era team In the-Eaat-WeBt benefit classic Saturdav at San FranclBco, tut to no avail.'the Westerners winning, 7 to 3. Our friend. Bill 2,aaby did yeoman service at fullback for Ibe Eastern stars, but was enable to get loose for a score.
THE SELECTION of Charley.DlcklPson and Ben.Ada afe varlty and freshmen football managers, respecltlvdty, brings to a close one of the- hardest contests for the position ever aeen at Carnegie. In aet, they were eo evenly matched that the athletic counell decided to ' award Ade a major sports manager's letter, at the conclusion'of the mxt football season. These boys deserve a lot of credit for craslttnn .through.In the tougljei
n.held at the Hotel 1i bot discussions
t .the shirt e Incompleti cf the huddle would <denying that ellml
tblB objection. The argument against' point of view, bat Ita benefit
. using It, and officials, but Its
oT. he game fri  m. using it o')e .uift was beaded by coacbei roponents -were, too numerous, a t least. The present forward p;:tsm on the ground that it hthe overhead game, but was retained for lack of
md it will remain for sla for a lot of.crlt- :cotnpllsbed its purpose of
. Basket ball season ES with us 
once more with all of Its attendant features. , Carnegie can truly consider. herself blessed by the powers that rule in the realm of basket fcali. . In 'tlie first place we have whnt is laughingly, termed by the ie/etee. b .feather-bed" floor. This floor was concolved and dedicated by an architect who made the mistake of getting basket ball and! ice hocky mixed. Dame Rumor Iiatfa. it (that flag stone1 paving Is going to be put In before the sea- son starts In ordor that some of tbe .'big horses" may feel more at fcome.,
Up to date there aro three men eligible for the team, including the two coaches. This condition how- over should give us no worry, considering that last year the only 
eligible men .were the two coaches and one of them at the time being tinder contract to^coach^ another tmT-rJ'Theima'th.'i[epartmenthaB
roughnobly and
/ There are .still the hopes of, midyear entries to help the team up, ever, across and through the net. The: advantages ot enrolling midyear are-myriad Insofar'as basket hall Is concerned. In the ilrat place you'cant be declared Inellgi- ble' for at l&st thVee rnonths. in the second place tliere Is no reputation, to live down In the eyes of the faculty outside1 of the mlsfor- ' tuno of being'an athlete. In the 
third place you are unknown (personally) and get yards of publicity; And in the fourth, fifth and sixth places; oh'well, draw your' own 
,conclusions.
':CaacliIng, at Carnegie is facllltilt-; ed by Uie remarkable plan of having new coach for tlie plebes and TOTBity each yeo.'r. This puts every
i of play Is that It keeps the winds of tlie players on tlie alert, tor they do-not dare resort to last' Reasons, or the seasons; hefore3 tactics. But if they should forget they lose nothing for then they are keeping their opponents as well as thoir sophomore team mates guessing. There is only one other thing that makes a game more Interesting than changing coaches from the viewpoint of all concerned, and that is the playing of the game with two halls. (A detailed ac- eonnt of tliis method next week.)Aside from the'cbniestari'ts there are'olwaya the rooters to be con; eldored. On their heads reBts the iesponsiblilty bf making .the game as colorful and cheerful as-pos^lifie^k More real enthusiasm can be  worked up ovfer a epllt pint of ll- jaor than can be gotteu out of the crowd through a field goal in' tlie: Bast second of a tie game.This. playful animosity.. between ' members of the team and certain (we. know you, there's no use -hiding) members, of tbo' student body inserts life in the game from many angles and, keeps the cheering sec;
Iona in of hectic enthuAnd believe you us, dear readers, -there Is nothing in the compass' of . onr knowledge that will breed en: thoslasm as fast as- the free. flowing of liquor, even ' though' it
meati varsity .basket ball.
. (Continued From Page One), tamp ;.Wodts, General' Electric.
. Company;. January 26',; Display Windows, Show Case,"and Flood* 
Lighting," by S.. G. Hlbbeo, manager of the commercial department, 
WegUnghouse Lamp Camp; Janury iW, "StreetjLlghtlng and Traffic Control, by'C..A. B. Halvorson,' 
designing englnear ofthe aeneral
' ^Bleetiic: Wm^'ny.' J.
CARNEGIE GIRLS 
WIN RIFLE OPENER
During the week ending Decem
ber 11, 1926, Cfnegle, Toch Wom
en's Rifle Team .fired'its first col
legiate match. It was against 
Gettysburg College Gettysburg. 
Pa. Techs score was 498 out .of a 
possible 500 and' Gettysburg's 
was 470. Oiit of ten girls who 
Qred the five highest scores c
Lloyd Yoder, captain of Carne
gies great, football team and Allerlcan taclUe, is to ' recolve 
re honore to add to his already 
latge collection:' He will be honor 
at a luncheon given by the 
Pittsburgh Carnegie Clan at the 
Fjjr'l PHt Hotel ion .Saturday, Janu
ary.15, and 1N to be the subject of 
tablet to be erected in the varsity 
clan room in the gymsasiugi.
The reason for all ot this Is that 
Yoder is the first Carnegie football 
player to- have been selected by 
guiztl critics as a member of 
the mythical All-American eleven. 
By 'h'is great playing for the past 
..years, and particularly dur
ing the. past season, he has brought 
honor to his school, to himseir, and 
 the game.
Unquestionably. national recoglition of Bulls merit was brought 
about by the downfall of Notre 
 at the hands of his team. 
Had It not been for this, be would bave beea indeed'fortunate to rate honorable mention, but when critics sought for reasons for the ifeat of the Fighting Irish, they first used all of the old alibis and a few new ones, only to-find that none of them could explain that 19- polnt margin of superiority. And finally they awoke to the fact that Carnegie had a really great team. Coach Steffen came in for his 
share of tbe credit. and now it's
There .is no doubt but that Lloyd is the moBt noted player Carnegie ias yet bad. His prominence Is an 
insurance that Carnegie has "ar- lved in the world of football, and ihould henceforth secure the place in the national Speight which' It has long deserved; '
The girls who fired for Carnegh 
woi-e:
1.  Ruth Dawson ..'................10'2. Jean Roy ...........................10'3. Alice Bright ........'.............104. Florence Shapiro ............................................................................................. 95. Helen Bright...................... 9
Total ..............'...$. t Barbara Renwlck7. Carolyn Sbults .8. Luciio Sorvick . 9 iBObcl Sheppard10. Eunice Wymau .The Gettysburg tea: sen ted by: "1
1. Isaueile Lakln ..2. Viola Cromer ..,3. . Caroline Harman
..498
5. Vei
Lawney .. Heckenlul
6. Ruth King ...7. Melba Richard8. Dorothy Hemm9.  Dorothy Klme
For the week ending December 18, TeeliTflred a' match against Montana State College, Bozeman, Montana. The latter, However, evidently failed" to lire the match for no report of their score, has reached hero as yeti The Carnegie girl's score was 495 out ot a possible 600. The girls who fired for places on this match were:
Eunice .Clark .............. . .. ..100Calhorine :Boyd ....................... 98Ina. Savander, .........................97Kalherlue1 OJDonnel ............. 96
Vlrgluia Rose ........................' S3Leah Keller ............................ 93Helen Whltelilll-----.................. 91
The girls who nally fired the 
match wore;1. Eunicc'Clark-.........
2. Luclie Servlck...........3. Catherine Boyd ............4. Florence Shapiro ..........5. Barbara Renwiclc........
Total :...............6. Carolyn Sbults7. Helen Bright
.495
The Womens team fires the Uni
versity of West Virginia during the week-ending January 8, 1927. Tbe following giHs fired for places 
la the January Matches: .Eunice - Wyman .......... S9Virginia Rose ............'. 98isobel Sheppard ......................S>6Ina Savander ................. 96Helen Whltehlll ..................... 96Leali Keller ................... S3Rose Sky ............................... 83Throughout the month of Jan- uary the {earn tire In the National. Rifle Association Womeus Dmv te'rcolleglato Chamnlonahlp Matoh for 1927.v Firing begins: on Jan
uary; d anV must be completed by January 23. . ; -
Since considerable Interest ge< 
to have been;, shown by. the girls 
thla year ln th'e possibility of.tak
ing  the 1 Red Cross tlfe SaSring 
test, Miss Spurlsr and Miss Yeakcl 
have consented to give - an In 
Week' in- coaching' jthe glfla1 so 
they an\take the . .. test;7 In  the 
spring.-^ it^means 'quite a: number 
of practises but lf\ they all. comt 
:out for them" It wUl be easier and 
quicker to learn.-' The same hour 
bias b'een ; suggested- as was need 
In the fall fof the class team prac
tice., Those' girls- who are;, really, 
interested, in' this work should..see 
.the^lnfltjTJctora as1' soon as posiilUle .and'fiign up. -
PLAN NEW HONORS 
FOR LLOYDYODER
Varsity RlUe Team Wins 
From Rensselaer M. I. T
defeated Rensselaer and. Massachusetts Tech-In- the-match which was finished December. 10. M. I. T., the nearest opponent was beaten by 54 a-while Rensselaer was beaten .70 points. . The total scores C. I. T., 1876; M. I. T., 1822; R. P. I.. 1706. These scores are the toiaJs of the five highest men that.make up the 
team.
The match was a four position latch. Each man-fired two sighting and 10 record shots In each of four positions, thus, making total possible score 2000 points, be Uaeup and score of the five 
highest men. were: For Carnegie:Eichelberger, D. M 378 points; Weatherall, C. H., 376 points; Park,, C. C.. 375 points; Bayne, R.175 points; Fisher, A- M., 973 points.Theso scores were far better than those ot the other schools. .The Carnegie team.is well balanced and quite evenly matched The total scores ' this joints  better
? September 24^Westminster *? at Youngstown, Ohio. +:* October 1Thiol ot Forbos *? Field. *? October 8Drexel at Forbes *? Field. ' . ?? October 15W. & J. at *? Forbes Field, ?? October 22Pitt at Pitt *? Stadium.  ?? Octobor 29WeBt Virginia ?? at Morgantown. *
? November 5N. Y. U. at *? New York. ?? November 11Western. Re-*
serve at Forbes. Field. ?? November 19Detroit U. at **.- Forbes Field. ' '  *? . * 
* * * * * * * * * * * * *c* * *
they have beqn improving, 
Carnegie should rank among tho leaders. The prospectB are that one or the best men who is at pres- iliglble. will be eligible next
around 390 points. Manager Sweaduer, - a letter man from iBBt year's team* waB al60 unable to ipete In the last match, because in injury from an auto accident, but he will be able to 4 In the next hich is. with West| Virginia 
on January-6. i The pfebe team Is gelling slart- I now, although no plebe manager .has-beeu appointed as yet, and the plebe managers duties are being carried at present by varsity mana- gor Swoadner, and Lieutenant. Ariwemith uch Uni mge.-Leo Kasehagen, who won the R. . T. C. cup this fall, and who SB captoin of the rifle team of Central High 'School of w;ashlDs- C., has been elected cap-, tain of the plebo team. The first pl.obe rifle match is a. prone match with Gettysburg for December 18. It Is interesting to- note that tbe first, second, and fourth hlghost plebes at', the mid-semester ratings imong the Hest on the plebe
WOODLAWN CLUB GRANTED CHARTER TOPHI .KAPPA.PSI FRATERNITY.
(Continued Prom Page One.) sixteen, tbe Club moved into the Mudg residence at 6^14 . Forbes street, at that time situated'all alotie at-what Is now the busy corner of Forbes and Murray. In the late fall of 1924, the present fraternity house at 4817 Center ave- niie was purchased by the Wood* lawn Club Aluirtni Association for the use of the- active chapter, and it Is ratod as one of' the finest on the campus.- The Grand Arch Councli of the Phi Kappa Psl Fraternity which meets every two years and Is made up of representatives from each of the 48 chapters and, 35 Alumni Associations, was petitioned four times by the Woodlawn Club before passing in June, 1926. a unanimous vote being necessary as Phi Psl has the unit rle requiring every chapter and alumni association to be In the affirmative before a petitioner can be put on the accredited list for Installation by the Executive Coui formal installation Is to the pliThe
(Continued From Page One) Rlttman. professor and head of the Department of Commercial Engiri-' 
eerlng, who will lecture on Business ana Salesmanship;. Clifford G. Dunnolls, profesor and head of the Department' of Building Construction, who will discuss .Building Construction, Plumbing and 
Heating Installation; and Dr. R. N. Decker, consulting physician of' the institution, who will 6peak on Plumbing and Heating as They Affect Health.*;Welding problems will be given considerable attention with two different lecture's covering this subject scheduled. Samuel E. Dibble, licad of the Department ot Plumbing, Heating' and Ventilating and .holder of the Theodore Ahrens Professorship in Plumbing, will dlsciisB' Welding In the Plumbing' 
and Heating Industry and Robert B. Lelglicu, professor and head of the Department ot Industrial Science, will speak on The Welding Process. Other, lectures listed include Water Supply aud Sewage Disposal," by Harold Ii Lang, pro- feasor oC Blology an'dl^iblic Health, 
and The Plumbing Code," by Professor Dibble'.- Demonstrations oC practical sanitation. problems, an exhibit of the plumbing, heating and. ventilating products manufactured.In the.Pitts- burgh District, and inspection trips to*.-Industrial planls^are also In-, 
eluded in the program, It is an
nounced. ,,All members -of ' the plumbing, heating and ventilating Industries are Invited to attend the three days ot'eesslons according to' Dr. Con- neliey's preliminary- announcethan the.) last
rifle 1O. T.RifleMatch.
glate R. O. T. C. held from January 3 lo February 19, both dales Inclusive. Any membor of the R. O. T. C. is ellgi- > compete In .this match. The will be made up,of the 16 men ig the highest scores, of which the 10 highest Bcores in any stage count as team score {pr that 
sLage.The match .wjll be made ,up ol ur stages, each stage-will consist.of two series, each serl.es having.two sighting shots and 10 record shots. The positions of shbot- Ing for the two. series in ..the first stage aro prone and sitting, in the second Btage are prone and kneeling, in. the third stage are prone and standing and lit tlie. fourth stage are both .prone.The Third Corp area includes all ie .colleges within .the -states ot Pennsylvania,. Virginia, Maryland md tbe District of .Columbia. The earns in this area .havlng the highest scores will fire in the na- IR.O. T, C, match. The Car*, negle team shot in . the sia:, I match.Inst year-and all the members of the R. O. T. C. should elr share toward .winning-this iction again this.year.
the last mooting of the athletic council, held Decomber 14, it 
as unanimously voted to awnnl Id footballs to , the members of th football team for their splendid 
>rk during the paet season, and especially to commemorate the vie- over. Notre Dame. The footballs will be.engraved, with .the -, players name . and position, and the Notre Dame'score. ,/hey \vlli be awarded at the next gen- entl assembly, on January 11. Charles Dickinson of Ridgeway, i., was elected varsity football manager for the coming year; nnd 
BeiT Ado of Rochester, N. Y., was appointed to" manage the next Plebe football..team. Both boys worked hard since their man year, anti It was a tough o make a decision , between them. The Council voted to give Ade a varsity letter, at the end .of text season.'Varsity football letters were Warded to Captain Yoder; Don- oboe, Goodwin, Manby. Mefort, Cowan,/Captain Elect Anderson, Cooper, Sweet, Harpstor, LetMlter, Myers, Lovewell. Geiifues, English, Melziner, Swalle and Cbalupa. Student Manager Williams was awarded.a major sports letter'w.ith bar.__ Numerals wen awarded to the following freshmen,  znomberB of the Plebe football team: Captain Bowers, Bowser, Booth, Gladhart, Griffiths, Yerina, Morblto, Haug. HerbBt Kennedy, LeQer, Nunnally, ?ey, Schmidt, Gmith,. and Hayes,-the last named being a epe- olal awnrd , duo to Injuries in tho- irst game'which kept him out of >11 but two games. Manager Lyle Sheppard was awarded a minor ts letter, with' bar.J. Hartman, H. L. 'Widom, and R. H. Buckley *>ere named- first as- Blstant football managers for next roar, with' Eaton as alternate. Sec- >nd asBistahts are Wright. Cltni- otll, Cochran, Gibson, and Myers. Minor sports letters were award- 1 to tho following members ot the Cross Country team: CaptainCrawford, Peck, McNair, dalkln, ion, and Campbell. MCnogor Murray Calllnter was awarded ft minor sport' letters with a bar, as Dowling,  freshman manager. Npmeruls were awarded, to tho following Plobo barriers: McCombs,erson, Talbert, J. J. Snyder and H. 9nydor. Fahnestock, High id McNeil were eelecLed as first Slslont managers.
E. w. Fell was confirmed as var- ;y track captain. He Is a senior . Inter I and -specializes' in the biWd Jurtip and tho low hurdlesl1
SECOND SEMESTER .. ' s' TRY-OUTS SUNDAY -FOR GLEE CLUB
(Continued From Page One)Ips take up three or four nlglits i a row going from one town to another; all the time being enter'd royally Ivy Alumni and 
ds at their homes and at dances alter the concerts.It''is also very possible that the Glee Club will journey to New York City the second week 1n March as the representative of Western Pennsylvania iu the National Intercollegiate Glee Club Content We have one of tlie best directors in the country, and if he has all the good. material In the college out for the Club, ho will be 
abie to weld together an organiza- tliat will, stack up with .the best In the country.The opportunity t6 participate in the Home Concert (and Dance; the opportunity to secure an.activities key; the opportunity lo take trips to interesting places; the. oppor-' tunity to enjoy , the fellowship-at the rehearsals; the opportunity.to slnj; under the 'baton of a leading, musician of the day; and lastly, the opportunity to learn good music which will live with you all of -juur iife; awaits the men who will take enough interest to come
(Continued Tom <page One) DELTA PHI DELTA  C. Math- las,. Spald, Kleropay, Lutton.DELTA TAU DELTAG. Rem- mey, W. MtFarland, J. Ashbagh, A. Conrad, R. Crist, W.. McDermott, W. Hodge, H. Cemmel. R. Gilliland, P. Whitehead, D. Beggs, W. Owens, H. Burnap. '.. DELTA DPSILONtt-J. Muzik, F.
P. Brautlgan, E. Nell, P.. Hubbard. : KAPPA SIGMAR^: ClmIqttl. R: Wright,;,R. McCahnn, M. Hayes, G, Kennedy, O. .Leslie, W. Locket,- R. Frehefer, -B. Thmpsoon, S.. Qrif-. ilhs. W. Haug, ,V. Covert, E, HrroliJ; R. Schmidt, ,.C. Maynard; >B. Nunnally.t.^ItfPA SIQMA RHO r C. Mar? quardt, ; P. Stunts} ;;P. Lowman.^H.
TEAM'TO RECEIVE 
GOLD FOOTBALLS
To be Preseoted at General 
Assembly; Dickinson is 
Football Manager
to bo held la Genera the latter part of May and early in'June. It has. been decided ty the committee. 1 
European musicians are begin
ning to take the Jau of Broadway and Tin . Fan alley seriously, and tho most distinguished muslcal authorities ot the old world'will sit 
In judgement to determine It th American innovation is the foundation ' of  new school or a temporary digression from eaUbllahed 
standard.'
Among the delegates who-have' already accepted Invitations lo the exposition - art Ernest SchelUng. United States: Vincent Dlady, Ro- mafa; Holland and Maurice Ravel. Freuce; Dr. Richard Strauss'and Dr. Hans Ufltmer. Germany;. Ig*
berg, Holland; Lord Bernert ad 
Edvard DedL England; Joaeph -Jongon. Belglnm? -Arnold Schon- berg. Austria; Iger Stravinsky, Russia; VUeslay Novak, Czecho-Slo- vakla; Manuel De Fall, Spaing Ot- torloo Re3pight, ltaly;: and Yolt^ mar.' Andeae. . Jean BarthoTomi, Fri la Brun. Oostav Do re tand. Ar
thur Ho^neger. of Switzerland.> From Pittsburgh.Post
Inners, J. Mayes.PHI KAPPAW. Henderson, J.' Moibllo, A. Miller,, W, Worland, J. AfcGi-atb, H. Loxtorman, R, Cheese- man, T. Conneley.- J". Spriggs, R- Talbert. M. Klocko, A. Lange, J. Suehr. L.. Holveck, D. Yerina. ACACIAM. R. Waite, William
PROFESSOR STEIDLE LECTURES ON THE ASPECTS  OF RESUSCITATION
(Continued-From page One.) : the viotime body/ supplemented by ' ise of an--approved Initiator. Those devices have been in use since 1920.<ScIentlfic experiments ' have proved, that- while pure oxygen' 
inds to retard'breatfilng,- oxygen >ntainlng a small amount- of car* bon dioxide will stimulate: breathing, especially in cases o asphyxia
tion. In 1923, Stddle points out, a )mmlsslon :of the Amorlcan Gas Association made a report 'which immendcd that the use ot the poeltlve-preasure resuscitation appliances such as the pulmotor and' aotor  bo discontinued; that the use of the 9chaerfer" prone- pressure method of artificial rcspl- n be adopted;' and that in i of carbon-monoxlde poisoning the Schaeffer method be
;nt mixture of oxygen and carbon dioxide Into the lungs.The moBt common causes v^of asphyxiation, according to Professor Steidle, are inhalation of- carbon dioxide, inhalation of smoke, inhalation ' of carbon monoxide, miscellaneous gases, drowning, and electric shock. Asphyxiation or suffocation lakes place when'a person's respiration Is affected so that the >bdy tlasues do not receive suf
ficient oxygen and at tbe -same timid imulate an excess of > carbon dioxide.The first tissues of the body to suffer Irom his conditio: are the higher. centers of the brain, and .wheh theae are sufficiently affected 
by asphyxiation'-, the victim be(Contiaued From Page One.) 
which rate they would' now b California. The sad tale of i ductor, unfolded in the course Investigation, revealed the fact that the Pittsburgh Railways Company acted as host to quite a few 
hard-hearted plebcB. The sophs, however, ^ere said lo have paid-their, the evening.mtlrely through
presidents were ent in,full force, and/ enjoyed the banqut hugely. - Professor H. K. 
Kirkpatrick was ' at', the baquet this year, and noticed a change'in tbe appetites of the' class ot '29..- .Let; -have ,*a . better.banquet; 
Plebes!
: EUROPE / JAZZ
Geneva, Dec.28.American'Jazz 
and the mo^enitBt trend in- music as eylderjccd .in the .NeET splritu.'alsr wijUbe - featurek of .the ' Exposl- tion.interoationalej de la MuBlque,
We Have Learned That .it io 
Better to Uae -
kiles Rent a (^r Service
For All Occasions '
THREE STATIONS 
6107 Broad Street 856 Sixth AvenueHltand 1300 / Grant-1800 .
125 Seventh Street Student. Passes Issued at
Aprime 
favorite 
oil the campus
IN ANY group, of regular fellows, youll find 
Prince Albert. It belongs; It speaks the lan
guage. You get wfcjat we mean die minute you 
tamp a load of this wonderful, tobacco into the 
bowl of your jimmy-pipe and make fire with 
a match.
Cool, as a northeast bedroom. Sweet as a 
note from the Girl of Girls. Fragrant as a wood
land trail. Prince Albert never bites your.tongue 
or parches your throat, no matter how fast you 
feed it. Youll 'smoke pipeJoad oh pipe-load 
with never a regret.
Buy a tidy red tin of P. A. today. Throwback the hinged litf ^mci breathe deeply of that 
real tobacco aroma. Then .  . tuck a neat 
 wad into the1 biisiness-enid of your jimmy-pipe 
and light up. Now.you have it'. . . that 
tastel. Thats Prince Albert Fellowst
>RiNEE ALBERT
no other tobacco is like tit 
OIM7, tt. J. Reyrldt Tabt Cos pup, Wlesua-SftkBi, N. 
An independent engineerirtg organization, recently made a survey of fuel costs in the plant of a nationally-known' company that had changed over to gas, for a large part of of its production eighteen months previously. Tlie following quotations, taken directly from the engineers report, show some of the advantages effected in this plant through, the use of gas: '
Cost reduced 28%"Annual saving S3,676.32"
 Net, yearly return of 102% on investment? 
"Gas more dependable"
Faster heating"More accurate temperature control"
Here indeed is food for thought. Perhaps right now :, 
yoti are wondering what gas would do in your plant. 
Our:interesting book, GasThe; Ideal .Factory Fuel'' 
will- prove helpful to you. Why don't you send for:... 
your copy nowJ

---------------------------------------------------

&CBwjltibttn
osto* o 'Cantale InCHtsta o Tcehnoles Rttate8fa<Fst-0ffln * weond-claap tuffar.
EDITORIAL STAFF 
EdltOT-ln-Chlet ....Managing Editor...News-Editor...'.. :.............Athletic Editor.: :..........William R. Bernardi
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Ellenor Taillmadge- Robert M;Rrssell BulUcgorRalph HitchcockBartoGrilBss A .E. Fisher 
JUNIOR EDITORS
ALUMNI. EDITORS Margaret Russell Herbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin ' : Helen ReedJosephine Clark .. John Schneider 
. REPORTERS Stemrt Ralston R/ H. Snyder
Circulation Manager..............................B. BnpowltsAdvertising Manager...'..................Shelby McMlilion
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert R. NobleT. R. Zenk A. M. Brown CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L. Sacks G. W. Brehmst J. Rc BrownH. Kandell A. TepIItz H. L. MarshallC. E. Bias'
"Century.-' to tell the college boys what was 
wrong about their campus publications, espec
ially their newspapers, college * editors have
been telling the world just why they run their
papers as they. do. Considering the mess of 
exchanges which this office receives, there is 
scarcely a self respecting editor represented in 
the whole bunch who does not periodically re* ...Merrill Holllnstead tre td jjs office, wrap a cool, damp-towel
--------.* ttiSS DND around his head, and forthwith. proceed to_ - .. . Vnriftlr off a couple of columns about the vir
tues of collegiate journalism as it is exhibited 
by his particular 'Clarion. or /Bladder.7 
Harold Jacobson Generally speaking, the journalistic morals of 
these especially endowed literati may be class
ified under exact headings.
First there is the preacher. He.places him-, 
self in the limelight by pointing out the way 
through his weekly sermons. Sermons on tra. ditions, one hundred word pep rallies, mesCharles Hertong sages about, co-operation,-pleas for ;a less selfish school spirit, and a score of essays on 
other subjects which re equally as unwhole
some. He writes glibly on as if a special unc
tion-had chosen him to show the light to his 
fellow students. Yet; a college editor is'really 
a very ordinary sort of a person. He 6 rarely 
endowed with a "gift for writing, nor is his 
wisdom such that it would command attention, 
Rather is he an average student who has at
tained his journalistic position bccause of easy 
competition, a willingness to work during his 
first couple of yeare apprenticeship. So it is 
quite presumptuous of him to take advantage 
of hie opportunity to harrangue about his pre
judices.   * Into this class do most of 
the editora falL
Fred Woods'Joseph'G. Ritter William McNeil
EXCHANGE COMMENT
M. Mai Inlet
THE NEW NATIONAL
One of the. . .oldest - locals on the . campus, . 
namely, ;the Woodlawn Club, will shortly be
come Phi Kappa Psl. The date of installation 
will be early this spring,,^-:The installation,not only inarks the advent 
of one of the most reputable national frater
nities in the country on Carnegie^s campus but 
-is also significant in that it leaves but three 
local fraternities at the school.With the' coming of Phi Kappa Psi there, will
s. Then there are the two exlrcmesthe editor 
who tears into every tradition roughshod, stirs 
up trouble just for the sake of the thrill he 
gets out of it; and exactly opposite, the editor 
who is never in trouble, whpse editorial page 
is a continuous ode of praise to existing cir
cumstances. Every once in a while some one 
with ability gets hold of the /special column, 
and the results are always'stimulating-to the 
student body, with the exception of tho few: 
who run things. He searches back into old 
records to prove that a certain thing should 
be damned, and then he goes about damning 
every like circumstance within the pest ten 
years. He is usually witty, intelligent, and
SENSE OR PROPORTION SHY
It le not an uncommon thing to hear leaders in the business and industrial -worlds remark that col* lege graduates prove anything but 
satisfactory for the first year or eo that they are In the employ of some concern or other; that university- men, be they engineers, chemists, or mere Bachelors of Arta, have a decidedly annoying manner of I know everything" about them when first they enter a firm or company. There are more than a few Impor
tant corporations here in Canada that think twice before they add young men fresh with degrees, to their pay 'rolls.' Now\doea'it;nt seem more than funny that, when youths set aside four or five year of their life specifically to prepare 
the more thoroughly for so^e special pursuit or occupation,'they have. apparently wasted that loiig Ume, in that employers are chary ,abodt signing-them on in anycspaoIty at all? On the face of It, it does not seem logical, bot something Is wrong,'and that,"wanting* probably to be found in the ollege graduate rather than in the experienced mas of 'the world. , 
-When a young man leaves the 
porttOs.ot, the .university- behind ^lth It. all .Its Idealistic atmosphere, It is only too unfor* inatoly natural for him to gaze >on everything in the cold world 
ot reality with something bordering oh contempt He has fceen lead think that alter he collects a col- lege degree all that he has to it into life and sol' iblems by applying the*
With  aulii .uw > tMM.nm brilliant. ' 11 praise to him I The ofter editor,he a -total.of sixteen national fraternities, and drenimspW mouths his ! mth reg-three locals on the:campus. When one consid- . .jJl..  finifthert nroduct which is
ere that the fraternity history of Carnegie can an? uninteresting  it is never read afterbe included in the short period of twenty years.. f V , 11 15 nevfr reaQ sner
fhin ig ft remarkable-record and would indicate 'tne 9    that Carnegie was approaching the larger colleges as a fraternity school. There is another type of editorial policy
The Woodlawn Club is one of the oldest fra- which isnt as easy to classify as the others. A 
temities on tbe campus, having been founded policy which is not a policy, but which is more in 1906. . of a way of approach. Sometimes it is mere
The Phi Eappa Psi charter which has just reporting, sometimes it is entirely nonsense, 
been granted is a fitting reward for a local of More often it is an attempt to stimulate 
the caliber Woodlawn has been throughout its thought than it is to stimulate action. A policy
existence at Carnegie. which neither'seeks to interfere nor to bring
'The Woodlawn Club numbers among its about legislation, butNwhich is interested in 
its alumni many of-the most distinguished Car- mirroring student opimon, in documenting the 
negie men, as wll .as having a very strong times. Such a policy as this has its weak- alumni organization, these facts together with nesses, nodoubt. To.the students who like 
its early date of founding are significant in to see a firm standftaken on all questions, this 
i that they indicate the continued quality of the policy would seem inadequate. To the one who 
organization during its career at Carnegie. likes to witness a fuss it would be tame and
Phi Kappi Pai is a well known national of reactionary; to the one who likes to 
the conservative groupand conaiets -of approx- schools achievements-laboriously commended 
imatcly. fifty-one- chapters geographically dis- it would appear disappointing. In the m< 
trihuted throughout the United States. It was time the editor, calm in. his- knowledge that it 
founded at Jefferson. College in Canonsbuxg, wouldnt make any difference how much a 
Pa in. 1852. - The Wodlwn Club has obtain- hullabalo he raised anyway, is having a good 
ed its charter, after a period of eight years time doing^as he pleases, 
petitioningand is the first local which has been jf the Tartan"* policy is to be catalogued,
embraced by Phi Kappa Psi in the past thir- ^ probably fall under the last heading.
h has memorized In the dai room. With this idea instilled in ie speaks with his elden though he knew equally as n 1 they, if not a little mnre. This not Just an imagination, but a DUlne fact; if you dont believe . ask any of Canadas outstand- g employers and business minds. 
Many factors may engender such 1 undesirable'quality in the young graduate, but perhaps one of the lore important is the thoughtless- 9B9 and the absence of serious 1 that same person when he is an 
ndergrnduate; the manner in 'inch be coasts through the four eare ofhlB course,.paying little or o heed to the development o-aptitudes and capabilities, and paying 0 much attention to pie; id a good Ume. Not. that w cate spending,.all. ones ui 
tycareer studying, and. going- to church, but. we do suggest that 75 r cent oi McGlll.students. for ex- iple. whether intentionally or not do allow too many' precious hours bo devoted to Insipid pleasure.
A. sense of proportion In evei ing is an essential (actor in si as when one launches out, in the. wide worldthen an esnttel quality that undergraduates sbold develop when preparing 'for- tbit lifes work is. a-sense of propor- -McGUl Dally.
teen years.F. H. F.
EDITORIAL COMMENT
________rarp-occasions, when the enthu
siastic cyrving:of,eggB.^akeB.*place,.orwhenthe 
co-eds take over the grill from 'the Industries 
men. that the editor so forgets himself as to 
utter a preachment. -Andboth . these : 
* M. T. H.
Drama Department Takes Passing of the Third
Floor Back to Inmates of Western Penitentiary
Itwns an eventful day-'for .the 
Inmates of the Western State 
Penitentiary when the Drama Department presented The Passing of The Third Floor Back" by Jerome K. Jerome for their, entertainment. The prisoners very rarely see productions from the. outside world, and .some of them professed that they had never seen a'play; eo that it was very Interesting to watch their emotional reaction to a realistic drama.
The play that was presented, le to be regarded more as a parable than a play; haTanguini appear to inculcate individuals to emulate those in the hierarchy.' The Spirit of Christ, incarnated In the Stranger, serves to ameliorate and edify In a-manner that Is entirely beautiful. , \ :
Had the audience ' of prisoners felt that they were being sermon- Ized they would have immediately resented it fcy evincing their disgust The criminals seem to be endowed with a herd outer shell that Is immune to sanctimony, and it is only when this shell Is .pierced that the true religiosity at the core- ot the criminal is found. ' The play jailed lo penetrate this shell and so It remained merely an after noon's entertainment that was punctuated by systaltic laughter.The lines of the play, which had previously' seemed 'quite' simple were immediately distorted by ifr prisoners to have a comic mean ing. The subtleties of the drama escaped their attention, but thrfin: significant lloeB  those - which would be expected to appeaae the palate of puerility, were immensely appreciated by the audience:' The afternoon performance came as. a supreme relief to the Incarcerated- men; tbeir emotions like th transitory andr.fleetlng May-fly: lived buoyantly .for :a few.ihours .while they. werewitnesBingapag th book of life;The  Jezebel type of woi
the play seemed'to find favor with the audience vjrhile the supercUl- i and haughty heroine .obviouscommotlon. and. wh^nwthe "Thief* and Whisky we tered, a rousing cheer nearly resulted. The prisoners gave with their hands .when theihero and heroine Uased each other.-bd hey laughed , heartily when vthe characters wept." Although'the jrtsoaen are very humai the re/
for them taking this intlthett- view of appreciation' may lie In the fact that life has dealt with ,em moat unkindly.
When the painted lady uttered ie line, It's a funny world ?ith lot of ;funny people-In it, the reaction that swept over the men ed to be one'of mutual agree- And when the Stranger confessed That he lived so out of the world, this stray sentiment probably cut verydeeply -withthose who will nevi>f. the i The Western standing on the appears . like
j the <
State Penitentiary, banks of the Ohio, one of thOBe huge i ol the Mediaeval. Ageean - indomitable, monument granite that enloiabs the living ils of more than a thousand men.' The faces that one sees peering through .the hors is reminiscent or icerblc faceB that peer out from between the millions In of early iterlng or leaving this Penal Institution one passes through many iron doors- like the locks on a canal; one door is securely locked before .the other Is opened. Advancing clvlltzatlon. 
It eeem6, needs securely . locked doors In order that It may advance.
The mass of individuals that sat in the dimmed chapel, where the play was given, had all suffered the cruel benediction of Justice;, theirs had been the ordeel of the courts; they had passed through trials and had been judged on the aberration ot a moment As thev sat-there with their pale etiolated, faces, each Intent on tbat glimpse of the outside world which was be ing presented on the stage, there till- lived behind .- those concentrated , countenances, sanguinary and rapacious characters.
: The prlsoh remains a place 
where a man.-loses-hls true self: where he Is given a^number and' Is known by thlB number alone the rest of his Incarceration: 'and "a; place -where:'6veryAone is counted thjee times a> day. The only sounds that .reach-.- the prisoner's eare from lhe>oulsIde wbrld come' from the whlstt<es.'o|;the-barges that pass on-the .river outside the walls and the bells that ring from the towers of-dlstant^eathedrals.-. After th? -play was -over the prisoners slowly flled out of the 4*rk.dismal' chepel lnto^tfae court 
yard Bells from distant lethe- dra*e were tolling the vealng ifv 
pen:' - fMr-iall*tlcvaeae4-or the
butelde .world that they had Jus wllneteBed waa immediately ol Uterated by the sight that coi fronted them. High on the wall' silhouetted against the red rays e a setting sun, sentrys with rifles over their shoulders, marched back and forth.HAROLD JACOBSON.
INTERCOLLEGIATE ITEMS
frost, But at C. C. N. Y. U sophomores 'caught the frosh pre: dent some time before the smoke and. treated him to. a pleasai ride. When he had reached a rath' densely populated pan of the cli he was given the choice betwe< walking home in shirt and aocl and accepting an invitation to tl Soph Smoker. He overcame his natural abhorence of smoking after a little persuasion.
' Some.. zealous students of ST. LOUIS -UNIVERSITY wentto LOY OLA UNIVERSITY just before the two colleges met in their ; football game, and pre-empted the colleges pet mascot, goat.
the
ten cents for a bar of soap tlii usod In giving the animal a much- needed bath. A vote of thank was given to tbe twenty freshmei who spent a sleepless night ^ng the goat the -nlgbt before the
played-by COOPER- TECH'S was . the Poly game of last 
day.-The Pioneer. i COOPER UNION.
Over 200 father were entertained at GETTYSBURG COLLEGE on Father and Son .Day: The is the third In Us history and will be made an annual- institution of the school ev*nt. The evei in the handsTOf a stuoenV commit.--Thisf.is a year of fallen cham- -ploas-r-boxlng. > tennis, golf and teaeball have new. leaders. Bat 
the oaly case os record of a cham:ondui
There has been too much prais
ing done In thio column lately 
great a supply of admiring ad
jectives and 'panegyric parts ot 
speech. Such a state of affairs will' 
never do. Partially to remedy it let 
me emphatically declare that move 
shoddy trash Is being written in 
tbe present sickly'light of this day 
than was ground out yesterday;
icrubby, flimsy, fribble will 
be turned loose tomorrow than was 
on paper today; and the 
output' of fly-blown, purulent;
ity, leprous .litter for the day 
after that will be nothing Bhoct of 
nonstrous. Tbe gim-cracfcs and 
he Blush and the scum of tetters 
vlll go on accumulating and 
iprecdlng as long as the ten-lon 
rucks of the- People6 Publishers 
told out, and the reading public 
emalas what it is. Such is the 
latlook for that ever-present 9 
ter cent or <3ur literature which is 
ind always will be shoveled into 
uncounted millions of laws.
South WindNorman Douglas 
I have not.read ".South Wind.; 
I have tried three tlmeB to do it 
ihree times Is enough. It may 
be all that the encomium on the 
; it is, bat the first 97 
pages are not Some Ume wh< the Beneath 
South Wind gave- me (forblt it Heaven!) I shall find a 
ihallow, stagnant river creepli trivial way among weeds, and 1 tall gaze into Itbut not 
ng.Erik Dorn-'Ben Hecht "Erik - Dorn belongs to ever school of writing. It has ore epigrams in e paragraph than
iges. It is one of the most itely woven'fabrics of new and littering word-patterhs that ohe 
Hp find in present-day writing. And this virtuosity technique In ds is not the only striding thing
Notes of Music
By AUan V. Nern
I Boheme") ..............PacdnlMr. JohnsoiL- Arla: uMl Chumano.Mual' ("I*
Boheme) .........-......... PucciniMiss Lewis.
Duet: ' Finale, Act ' I, . La Bo*ieme........ Puccini
Miss Lewis end Hr. Johnson. '
ell In lending to the scramble of 
fe Its proper artificiality, Its abence ot real meaning. He has made apparent Its grotesquely mechanical nature, has fitted It Into yrtlions o a huge machine-7 
and' when one examines more closely, that machine itself is dls-. covered to be a shadow. ...
The chief puppet in the show DN 'rik Dorn, and it is through his 
eyes that we observe the automs* called people, the pink rhea which are called faces, oxes called booses Into which.the thingB-.caUed-men creeps.'lt .is
bis conception' of the whole spec- tacle which dominates the book, amusedly 'tolerant dealings tbe queer forked creatures 
. him; his reactions to the giddy turmoU ln< post-war <Jer- ; bis half-Ufe In the newsps- office; hie love-affair with Rachel, the pathological Jewess .bese furnish the material for plot. But the story Itself is no important as the way in which It is told. The well-known Professor 
John Broadus Watson would be, ind-no doubt Is, eitremely fond of it 'for It is a crystallization in art form of what he should like to seo happen, everywhere.. It - is Jntroipectionism- gone- crazy-, and metamorphosed somehow into extremist behaviorism.
And college professors In gen> eral can find much in It.to admire, because it represents. a tendency of their own in its ultimate .form. When a'professor struggles-with a 
heavy witticism, holding it desperately off until he has found .exactly appropriate words to swaddle.it in, he may, if he wishes, feel some slight touch or kin with Ben Hecht. Students, at least thoBe who can uadefstand him, ere fond of him for a similar reason: he-ls lncredl; bly apt in. making what they cali
It Is possible that the reason, for 
the..long, delay, in the book's-.ap- pearonce was simply that the author had not got his epithets and eplgTatnB all nicely horded. At any rate, his public cannot bnt be thankful that he succeeded so wc .. A. E. FISHER.
4Mary Lewls-Edward. Johnson. Mosque.?New . York Philharmonic,
: Mosque. ...8New York Philharmonic, mati11Alexander Brailowsky, Carney 
 gle Music HaL 13Joseph Czlgeti, Carnegie Music 
HalL17Rlh Draper, Carnegie Music HalL24H-Fritz Kreisler, arnegle Muele .HalL''ilRosa and Carmela Ponsell, 
Mosque.(La Scala Grand Opera, Mosque. 15Aldo.
17"Rlgoletto."18-Cavalleria end Pagliacci.'19Traviata/' matinee.
19Faust, evening.20II Trovatore. %2zLucia di Lammermoor," matiH. A-26New York Symphony, Mosqi29New York 6ymphony. matln<30Polyphonic Choir,  Carnej Hall.
Contribs and Comments
Editors NoteThe following let- ter. concerns an: article in a Tecent Issue-of the ^Tartan;* written by one of the members of the Oxford Debating Team, copied. 1n excerpts, from the New (Student7 Roeelawn Terrace. ' Pittsburgh. Pa. Dec. 11, 1926. Editor, "Campus OpinionTartan Office.Dear SI9:. Perhaps you will allow me to say a few words in appreciation of your new column for 'public egressions of opinion, and in reply ) th? Oxford mans article In your
PROGRESS IENGINEERING
t Is but .a^repeti^lon.pl.the pld ry ';to,,rge students  at Stevens read, or at least, peruse, engineering literature and publications. 
And as advice freely given is usually freely refused It Is 'not an un> impUon to say that particular advice probably goes the the rest But In spite of unhesitatingly recommend reading the December Issue of the outstanding mechanical engineer. Ing publications. .It will .prove to be instructive, interesting and prof. 1 table.
The publication lo which we refer is Mechanical Engineering, the 
Journal of the A. S. M. E. A large' part of It.this month Is gi' 
to descriptive summaries of the progress accomplished in mi the breaches of engineering with which the mechanical englui may come In contact. We cannot urge on you too strongly to av yourselves of this  opportunity secure in' condensed form t
t the profession in
LseaUable; The- first ny * employers' have not > really' :opted the value of knowledge or culture. The seeond Is that our artificially stimulated mass-enthu- 1 for activities Interferes with learning to,think:like so many European col- graduates, he has come to doubt everything naive without having acquired positive opinions >f the sophisticated sort. He says, or example,, that a . man can<edu- :ate- himself oS well' In a rocking- chair ae in a .class-room. But this is obviously not true In general;It not depend on the kind of education which the man desire^? He also remarks that the best college is that whose degree Is tbe most difficult to obtain. But is there- not an advantage in having the bachelors degree mean thing quite defli
advancing engineering 1
Contribs and Comments35 Plymouth Road, 
CatonsvlUe, Md., December 27, 192 Merrill Holllngsfoead* \ Editoren- Oilef, The Carnegie Tartan, Room 12, Industries Bldg., Car- negie Institute of Technology,
alumni depends on certain feature of the paper, which' are. of ihter'ee who are gone from th
this phase of
ad the editoriali read are the It, erest.' I believe th!et your paper could be
SITY student. His title plon hitch-hiker to the college. The young lady, the new champion, slats that her victory was. n<
over manly determination, but.
chivalry. It l c-champ reached
winning
the 1
that hie opponent was already there. The age of chivalrv.
-. The> faculty; at- RUTGEhSis Ingto. enforce Chapel attends 
The student Is-allowed two ui cused absences from Sunday Chapel and five, unexcused absences from dally Chapel. After that he receives a notice that a-repetition of such behavior shall result In a penalty oC three 1 hours added to the number of hours;added tn gradus- tlon^. In the eese'Of continued ab* seQCft-siupenaloii.for the--semester' or for the,year may: follow;
of December 7. admit that- EngUs!
lakes i>olnts that 1-that
all ciua] ;
BRAILOWSKY RECITAL
Pittsburgh Is to have the first American recital tble season of Al
exander Brailowsky. the Russian pianist . From Paris, where the pianist pldyed 26 programs in two ins and only repeated one, the of Alexander Brallowskyhas id all over the continent of Europe, and since his American debut u years ago, be is a welci iltor to many cities of the new world. Brellowsky's Pittsburgh recital will be given at Carnegie Music Hall on Tuesday evening,-Jaik- y 11.' He will present .the following program: ;Thirty-two Variations, C minor.........-.7................ BeethovenSuite. Pour le Plano;.. .Debussy' Prelude, Sarabande, Tocatta.clurne. G major.........V. .Chopin.Ballade, G minor..................ChopinWaltz. A flat major...........ChopinAndante Splanato and Polonaise....................................... Chopin'Chorus of St>lnners, from the 
Flying Dutchman ..Wagher-Llszt
T*16D0-HMiHFBY.
Villem Mengelberg- will give, the 
fourth pair of concerts under,the Pittsburgh .OTcheBtra ' Aswdation' 
Syria Mosque next Friday evening and Saturday , afternoon; Jan* id S. The program:' Frldaj1 Charles Bach;.... ...........
................. Slnfonla Overture(First t:me In Fitlsbtugb.). 
Chabrior. (Prelude . to Second
Act) ....................GwendolineStravinsky .......... .Little* SuitesFirst time in Pittsburgh!) - 
Beethoven ......Eighth SymphonySaturday Afternoon. ,
Mendelssohn Overture;-:.....,......,
................i*. FingaTs CaveBrahms-..............Third. Symphony
Prelude and Finale from "TrlBlan 
and Isolde. 'Wagoer.Prelude from "Lohengrin"
. .Prelude to Die Meisterslnger
The third of the Edith 1 Taylor 
Thomson Concerts,' which will take 
place on Tuesday evening, January 
11, at Carnegie . Music Hall, will 
bring to. the city "for ., the. second 
time the great - Russian pianist 
Alexander brailowsky. Mre. Thom
son.introduced this amazing player lo 'Pittsburgh last .season and has bad many-.requdsts that he return. The season before Brailowsky 
made his American debut he was the sBnstttion-of^Europe.. Thirteen appearances in Paris to houses 
that were absolutely packed is the record of his appearances .there in one season. A mell'known American, writing to his New York managera, said, I-was. In Paris this spring and everyone In musical circles was talking about Brailowsky. anxxlous to hear thlB new lonal pianist,'.rtried Ut-.seilcket but I was unable to ie - to any ot his concerts." 
Brailowsky . made bis American debut in Aeolian Hall November, the mpsttalked of planlBt pf the eeason. Prominent virtuosi eot-lnlo heated
accept the statement that, the chief business of the' stuident'-'Is think, let onr inquli of Carnegies self-sup- portlog night students, and Judgi himself whether they have learned to think!No: I think it is" fairly obvious 
at our Oxford/critic has in ml literary education of the Oxfo pe, and tbat he regards ltN p haps unconsciously, as  the 01 kind.worth having...
it is, of .course, a sad mistake lo suppoee that a person who can 
neither.write nor speak correctly 1a well educated, though he may have liege degree. But it Is equally (stake to suppose that a man ot.well educated if he-has.-.not 
a classical ' training, wjlh, lel- ; to. perfect himself, in. self-ex- slon along Individual linen, tie article which I am discuss- seems Incoherent In places.'ae though It had suffered by Injudicious cutting.1' (Would it not be well tc print a ptece with full credit?) However, there are some foolish things in it for which the 
sponslblllty.
CONCERT AT SYRIA MOSQUE
iry Lewie, s ward Johnson, tei the MetropolitanComGrand Operany,
llze that that-.stu- the basis
r the (
ouble Is
d tbaithis is tlie case in France'.To my mind, the whole that our Oxford friend hi fined Education, either for himself or for us. Is he thinking of the bread-and-butter aim, the knowledge a|m, the culture aim, harmonious'development of the faculties, or self-realization? Each of these alms is legitimate enough, provided no single one of them Is regarded as telling the whole story of education. What can our critic mean by. the broad and vague, assertion that no man bas the time both to earn a living and to learn all that a university can teach him? Probably that a man who peyotes all of his time to study and college contacts'of other kinds will
autboiHe does not seem to 
colleges are endowed- dents may be selected of ability rather than wealth. 
Being accustomed to the English trick of humorous under-emphasis, he .has been grossly misled-by the American trick of humorous overemphasis. Neither the. high school senior nor the college freshman Is as black as he has been painted by th gloomy Deans with whom friend has talked.If we overlook the absurdly aggerated example1' .of the r who by attending classes only In
four years, we can hardly Ignore the anecdote with which our Eng I1sh contribution closes. After all a man must educate himself; Un most tbat lila teachers can do. 1: to point the way and smooth the path. Those teachers who forget this, and Indulge 1n forcible feeding, ar quite properly (o 'be accused of . laying a blighting hand on the'subjects they tei anyone who. remembers hi* teachere as drivers rather tbau ac guides' has -been unhappy
i : that t will 1ielf-si
developed In ofder to properly maintain the Campus - feeling amongst those who are away from school and no longer have ImmdBi ate points of contact. I have been practicing my pro fesslon of Engineering for somt seven or eight years. I am going to make the suggesttoa that you as
sign me a column, call - It. say. "Business and Engineering Notes." Suppose-1 . contribute a few - hundred words for this column each week. I would-make (t brief and condensed and Just enough in- detail to be valuable. '
- L would write my article eachweek on some, pbase of the above which would be of Interest to a fellow alumnus who Is striving to get a: foothold In either business or engineering and who ie Interested In picking up Information bearing- on 
the general problems tbat be meets In his work. 1 ' rlYou.can readily see how thla will Increase-the value of tbe "Tartan Inasmuch as the Alumnus will read something therein-In which'he. Is vUaliy. interested, aad.-'of course- he will naturally Increase bis Inter-- est. In the valuable Items Which
- ; l:have had a small experience ln
Syria Mosque next Tuesday evea- Ing, January 4. Ellmer Zoller,. who accompanied Edward Johnson on his Oriental tour last year, -and who bas. also played many times for. Mary Lewie, will play the piano panlments . for both artiste Tuesday, night. The. .pro
ludi, e. Aria: Colpito quimavete from Andrea Chen-.ler ...............Umberto GlodanoMr. Johnson.Care-Selve ...................fisoniStnendchen1. .. .............StfaiHymne au Solell........ .OeOrfMiss Lewis. !"I<e Passant (Kllngser).. .G. Hue "IMmanche , a 1Aube (BasseBretagne) .................Ducoudray"Zwelgung (Von Glim)............................... Richard StiMr. Johnson.Aria: Depula ie Jour fn'Louise" ................. CerpentlerMlsa Lewis. , /Duet: Madrigal ffom Romoet.Juliette ....'................GounodMias Lewis end Mr. Johnson. "Linden Lea (BornB)...................................R. V. WlUIomTho Crying of Water (Tipton)
....................... Campbell-TtptoiKangaroo and Dingo (Kipling)........ Edward GermanMr. Johnson.The Holy -Child"........ .MartinThe Second .MJnuel............Besly"The Voices of Children.Rummel- Miss' Lewis.- Aria: Che Gelida Manina (La
And so it Is more.sorrow than 1 anger that I write, these few line of objection and reproof.Very truly, yours,CHAfl. WILLIAMSON.
writing artlctes for .the technical press along professional lines. a shall, only be tbo glad to ma small weekly contributions to yo paper. Yours tnily. .JOHN C. SOMERS.
Both new and old students s^rfbld.note that.they can get un- -usual fountain pen service by call- Ina at the. branch store of JBInger Pen and Gift Shop, No. 3941 Forbes.street, schenley Apartment block,.or the.Main Store-In Jenkins Arcade.*
Patronize
Our*
c/4dvertisers
umenta, leading 'teachers flock-i hear him andtheir
pupils. He gave another r tbe aame hall In'December, com* pletely. sold out,. and..a thinl. in 
'January, this time' at lCarneg(e isle Hall. StUl people demanded hear him and he gave a fourth Carnegie Hall la' -February. Splendid record for a first season 
e of the most delightful ar- who ever' visits Pittsburgh, Ruth Draper, will return. on Monday evening) January 17, and give one of . the marvelous programs, of Original .Character.' Skelch.es, at Carnegie, Music Hall in. the evenlngv Since her lost Pittsburgh appearance last season, Miss Draper has taken London by storm and her recitals there In the spring ntttracted. vast audiences:A good, many attempts have bsen /made-to- analyse, .the- art ofv-tls: great actress, who, without stage' settings of any Ind; save.a^slmple table and a chair or two. can matte-- that same stage appear to be peopled with all sorts of characters. Her pecollar gifts appear -to. depend as much up the psychology ot the-'beholder aa^upon her own mimetic skill. It has become trite to say Miss Draper Is able to people her stage at will, although It Is undoubtedly true. ;By a gesture, a: trick of poeture. an lntonaUon, the ; raising of an eyebrow, the manner of wearing a- shawl or fluttering a handkerchief, her power of suggestion Is so marvelously defr that she can doss from'one to another- of the fancied characters with something of the hurry ln_ which conversation 1a tossed from mouth to mouth In a crowded room. Mies Draper has always been a favorite . In Pittsburgh, and she ^111 bring some:of the newest jand most successful sketches' on tbe program lo Pittsburgh.
Well-dressed reports *are like well-dressed people
Ifcmington.Portable
The Becsfifad Uddir In
the part appearance plays in your college work. Neatly type
written reports, lecture transcrip
tions and theses create a favorable 
unpresslononthe powers that be. 
Get a Remington - Portable and 
dress up vour work. Your pro
fessors will appreciate the dean cut, legible- writing and the 
chances are this appreciation will 
be reflected in the marks you get. 
Remington Portable is i/je port- - 
able. It is the smallest; lightest and most compact machine with 
four - row., standard  keyboard.:
' Handiest, fas|est, most depend 
.able, and simplest to operate. 
Weighs8% pounds net. Can be 
bought for as little as $10 down 
and' $S moothly. ^5old and Popularity
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE- OF TECHNOLOGY
90 FORBES STREETWOODLAWN PHARMACY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Remington Typewriter CVmpany
 IHEMER BUILDING, 102 SIXTH tTREET, PITTMURGH, PA.
C* -r________
