VARSITY CLAN 
BANQUET 
SATURDAY NOON
VOL. XVIII. NO. 12CARNEGIE-INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
GUILD PARTY 
SATURDAY 
BE THERE
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1923
BHARAT ASSOCIATION TO
MEET SATURDAY, DEC. 8
There will be a regular meeting of 
the Bharat Association o the Hindu 
students of Pittsburgh on Saturday, I 
December S, 1923, at S:15 p. m. in 
Room 124C, Industries.
Mr. P. C. Mukherjic, with 18 years 1 
of American experience, will speak on | 
.  tt, India and America, and Their Meet-Dancmg and Novel Jnter- j ng Ground. AH friends are cordial' ly invited to attend.
GUILD CARNIVAL1 
IN UNION & LAB 
NIGHT OF DEC. 8
New Gym Nearing Completion
tainment to be Punctuated; ____________
by Refreshments  San ta DAD WHYTE BIDS
Claus Present in Pferson ADIEU T0 CARNEGIE
MAKE YOUR DATE NOW
Now that Thanksgiving is over for 
another year, its time to think 
about Christmas. Saturday, Decem
ber 8, is the day set for the annual 
C. I. T. Guild Carnival, to be held in 
the Union and the Langleyi Labora
tory.
Santa Claus will slide down the 
chimney of Jingle Bell Inn with his 
pack of presents for everybody. 
There will be a Christmas tree trim
med by tbe Freshman class, and a 
real ,live fortune teller capable of 
seeing into the past, present and fu
ture, all for tihe sum of a few cents.
Plebe girls dressed as Poinsettas 
will serve the crowd with cakes, lolypop dolls and balloonB. Among their 
number are: Margarite Beachler,
Alice Hurley, Florence Hartman and 
Sara Elizabeth Hays.
The stunts will be a feature of tbe 
evening. Heading the program will 
be a. chorus and procession of the 
Boars Head; Eleanor Johnston and 
Jack; Daniels will display their tal
ent in a short sketch; Sis Feick, 
Helen Emerson and Gypsy Speers 
will take part in a dance; Zabelle 
Davis and James Resley will pre
sent a minuet. Karl Heinrich and 
Olga Chalmers will also be on the 
program, and a number of other 
events are pending, among which -will 
be an unusual performance by the 
alumni.
Dancing and stunts will alternate 
throughout the evening. The Col
legiate Imps will liven up Kriskingle's Shanty, and the Blue Ridge 
Serenaders will render the noise in 
Jingle Bell Inn
Tags of unique design will be on 
(Continued on Page Four.)
A _  OI or pn.j SALESMEN APPOINTED FORAged Skibo Retainer Called junior banquet tickets
From Work by Sickness 
in Family
Slowly as the years pass and class 
follows class we find the ranks of the 
original faculty and administration 
depleted by death, retirement, or pro
motion, and only last Wednesday an
other old devoted Skibo retainer bid 
us a sad farewell. Dad Whyte, j
known and revered by every man who ; MANY ENTHRALLED
Tickets for the Junior Banquet can 
be obtained from the following men: 
ArtsDave Garber, Hoffer, Sload. 
ScienceEd. Frazier, Charles James. 
IndustriesM. D. Kallfelz, A. E. Mellor, A. S. Andrews, T. J. Dempsey, 
R. E. Hughes.
Get that Junior Banquet ticket 
now.
Musica! Ready 
For ChristmasTrip
Concert at Buffalo and Erie 
First Trip on Dec. 14
On December 14 the Mens Glee 
Club and Mandolin Club leave for 
their Xmas trip. The towns of Kittanning, Corry and North East have 
already been scheduled, and it is ex-j 
pected that before long satisfactory 
arrangements will be made for con
certs at Erie and Buffalo on the same 
trip.
The clubs have rehearsed the pro
gram whiich is to be given on the 
trip and it is an exceptionally! good 
one. Mr. Reihl, director of the Glee 
Club, has not yet chosen the twenty 
men who are to take the trip, but 
will do so very soon. The specialty 
numbers will add greatly to the pro
gram. Broudy with hl saw, Alechin 
with the Russian Balalaika, Mar
shalls Hawaiian guitar, Le Baron, 
soloist, and the quartet will give 
their audiences a real treat.
During the Easter vacation a trip 
will be made by the clubs to Phila(Continued on Page Two.)
BY DR. BOHRS TALKS
Lecture Hall Crowded as 
Curious Flock to Hear 
Scientist
DAD WHYTE
ever underwent a Plebe year at Car
negie, has been obliged to resign his 
position here because of sickness in 
the family, and join his daughter at 
Grand Rapids, Michigan.
A special assembly was called in In
dustries, Tuesday, with Dad as guest; 
and after giving him if hearty fare
well, with the best wishes of the en
tire college. He was presented with 
a silver headed cane inscribed To 
Dad Whyte, From the Boys at Car
negie Tech, November 27, 1923.
John A. Whyte is a Scotchman by 
birth, being officially a ship-builder, 
but after his coming to America he 
was soon affiliated with the Carnegie 
interests. Upon the establishment of 
the school, Dad was appointed mech
anician of the Machine Shop, a posi
tion which he has retained ever since. 
Though the wearers of the plaid are 
frequently characterized as tight, no 
trait. affected Dad less than this, ex
cept when he guarded the interests 
(Continued on Page Three)
MUSICAL CLUBS STAGE 
DANCE IN UNION FRIDAY
Band Leader Married
On Thanksgiving Day
The wedding of Mr. Edward Sulli
van, teacher of the Carnegie Tech 
.Band, and Miss Florence Adele Lanigan of Averly street, North Side, was 
solemnized at 9 oclock Thanksgiving 
morning at St. Peters Cathedral.
There were several attendants and 
the brides gown was the traditional 
white. After the ceremony the bridal 
party breakfasted at the Hotel 
Schenley. Mr. and Mrs. Sullivan left 
for a short eastern trip and will be 
at home to their friends December 6.
Mr. Sullivan is very well known at 
Carnegie Tech. To Sully, as he is 
(Continued on Page Three.)
One of the outstanding social 
events of the pre-Christmas season 
will be the Musical Clubs dance on 
Friday, December 7. The famous Col
legiate Imps eight-piece orchestra 
has been booked at tremendous ex
pense. Several novel entertainment 
features will be given during the 
evening.
W N. Aleshine will deliver a solo 
on the Russian balalaika. This in
strument, although little known in 
this country, has attained a wide rep
utation in Russia. Mr. Alesliines in
strument is the only one in captivity 
on the campus, and he plays it with 
a grace and abandon that is worth 
gonig miles to see and hear. He will 
render several numbers in his native 
tongue that are guaranteed to bring 
the house down.
Another feature of the program will 
be a selection on the musical'' saw. 
Steve Broudy, the manager of the 
clubs, performs on this noble instru
ment. He has recently completed a 
course of study abroad with the best 
masters, and acknowledges no equal.
Either one of these feature num
bers alone would be worth the price 
of admission, but you can have them 
with the dance for one dollar.
During the three lectures held in 
Room 209, Science, during the past 
week, the room was always over
crowded. One could see staid faculty 
members, heads of departments, labo
ratory workers, students and others, 
with an interspersion of ladies, seat
ed at all possible places, such as the 
steps, tho window sills, and other sim
ilar places.
The reason Was that Dr. Bohr, tho 
Noble prize winner in Physics for 
1922 was lecturing on that mystery 
of modern natural science, the struc
ture of the atom.
It was therefore with some awe 
that tho Tartan reporter approached 
the great man. To his surprise, how
ever, he found Dr. Bohr to be just 
an ordinary human being, not at all 
impressed -with his own importance. 
As an illustration of this wo may 
quote his closing statement. Tho 
thing that has impressed mo most is 
the engineering feats in this country. 
It seems to me, that to make a great 
turbine go, or to make a steel mill 
turn out steel are among tho most 
stupendous things a man can under
take. We scientists are investigating 
systems that are already going. It 
would in fact bo impossible for us to 
stop them if we so desired.
In his lectures Dr. Bohr emphasized 
the fact that not only is tho atom a 
worid in itself, but the nucleus with
in the atom Is a world of suns, and 
satellites. The dimensions of that 
world, however, are extremely small 
for if all the people in tho world 
should suddenly become interested to 
know the number of atoms In a cubic 
centimeter of air, and they should 
lake such a cubic centimeter and 
share it up between them, then it 
would take a little more than ono 
thousand years for them to complete 
the count, working night and day. 
When we consider that the world 
holds about 1,000,000,000 people, tlio 
fact is yet more borne home. For the 
(Continued on Page Four.)
NEW GYM WILL 
BE IN USE BY 
NEXT FEBRUARY
Growing Structure Rapidly 
Nearing Completion in An
ticipation of Approaching 
Athletic Season
ROOF IS NEARLY DONE
The new gymnasium is now about 
sixty-five per cent completed, and the 
mens section will be ready for use 
by the first of February, according to 
statement made by Presidont 
Baited.
The dreams, which Carnegie men 
and women have fostered for years, 
has materialized in the form of a 
large edifice, whiich even in its un
finished state is dignified and impos
ing. The plains, drawn up by Profes
sor I-Iornbostel of the Department of 
Architecture, are. in. uniformity with 
the other buildings ol Carnegie. The 
designer seems to have kept in mind 
the principle that simplicity is the 
key-note of beauty.
Since the beginning of tho con
struction work has proceeded rapid
ly, and fortunately there have been 
no dolays due to lack of material or 
labor troubles. Much credit is due 
to the contractor, Mr. Slesel, and to 
tho supervising architect, Mr. Frank
lin, both of whom aro Carnogle grad 
nates.
Tho roof Is being finished now, and 
the plumbing and heating apparatus 
Is being Installed. Work on tho fin
ishing of the interior will begin in 
tlio very near future. The mens 
gymnasium will bo tho first part to 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
MARGARET MORRISON PLEBES
HOLD 1923 24 ELECTIONS
The results of the Freshman class 
election in the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College are reported as fol
lows:
President, Virginia Wallis; vice 
president. Helen Wilson; Senate rep
resentative, Eleanor McCann, secre
tary, Alice Ribblett; treasurer,^ Mary 
J. Cooper.
HONOR VARSITY
|ALUMNI CLANS
Owing to the fact that last Tluirs-i 
day was a holiday, no chapel was j 
hold during tho week. However, an j 
Interesting program is scheduled for nn iTin n * npy A V
this week, when chapel will bo held | JQ J[ ^ UiV 1 U I\U/\ I 
in the Arts School, as usual, on 
Thursday, at 12:50 p. m. Tho Rev.
A. It. Robinson of tho Sixth United 
Presbyterian Church, is tho speaker.
PLANS PRACTICALLY 
READY FOR JR. FEAST
Football and Cross-Country 
Teams Will be Guests at 
Luncheon Given by Alum
ni and Varsity Clans
Everything is Definitely Ar
ranged for Excepting the 
Entertainment
STUDENTS TO ATTEND
CUP DONATED FOR 
BEAUTY CONTEST
Dean Brown Gives Silver 
Cup to be Rotated in the 
Yearly Awards
Dishevelled Doggie Develops Into
Merciful Maggie Mur phs Mascot
By SARAH MAE EVERETT
Sai*a Louise has a good home at 
last! For two lonely weeks she was 
tossed about the campus, trampled 
under foot by careless Cos and Co
eds. Today, she is spending her time 
playing with a meatless bone, and 
pausing only long enough to admire 
the bow of plaid ribbon fastened with 
girlish grace about her neck.
All this was brought about by the 
kindness of three Maggie Murphs. 
from that famous street called 
Forbes. These girjs, attracted by 
Sara Lous brown eyes and great tailwagging ability, lured her into their 
dormitory and prepared to administer 
a much needed bath.
Strange to say the. other girls obALL PROOFS OF PHOTOS 
FOR THISTLE NOT IN YET
Preliminary Tickets 
For Prom Being Sold
Poster Contest Being Held 
Prizes Are Offered
dog, but the heroines were not daunt
ed. They simply substituted the 
waste basket, a strong, non-leakable 
affair made of tin, in which half of 
Sara Louise could be placed at one 
time. By such a division, a beautiful 
result was obtained; the dogs hair 
was disclosed as being a brilliant yel
low, proving that at heart, Sara 
Louise prefers Maggie Murphs to any 
other girls.
To get a true concept of the little 
dear, you must try to imagine a sheep, 
an Airedale and a poodle combined, 
and set off by a magnificent set of 
whiskers. Since her introduction to 
water, Sara Lou has learned to bark 
and to purr, and she has become quite 
friendly. She is at home under the
As was announced last week 
through these columns the Thistle 
photographer has left the campus. 
Those who have failed to have their 
picture takes and who yet desire to 
do so may go to Mr. McClays studio 
in Wilkinsburg.
The proofs of pictures which have 
already been taken have not all been 
turned in yet. A representative of 
the:photographer will be in Room 149 
Industries, for a limited time and the 
Thistle Board urges that the selected 
proofs be turned in at once.
It is gratifying to note the interest 
which the Seniors have shown thus 
far in the Thistle elections and some 
surprises are promised when the re
sults of elections are made public.
It is very difficult to prevent these 
news articles form developing into 
eulogies for the year book of 1924 
but we just cant help referring to 
some admirable feature each time. 
There are the views for instance 
They will differ considerably from 
those of last year in that the view 
section has been taken with an idea 
of obtaining the most artistic results 
Instead of merely showing the differ
ent views. The effect is very strik
ing.
Tho contest held by tho Mens 
Junior Prom Committee for the most 
unique and appropriate I'avor and 
manner of distribution, has come 1. 
a close. Tho committee, at its last 
meeting, chose tho suggestion which 
in their estimation was tho best 
suited for tho occusion. The winner 
of the contest will be announced at 
the Prom and the favors, of course, 
will be one of the surprises of the 
evening.
Preliminary tickets will be on sale 
this week and tho committee desires 
that those going should buy one. Be
sides being assured admission to tho 
Prom, the early (buyer will be able 
to get his admission ticket at a re
duced price. The preliminary .tickets 
(Continued on Page Four.
Doan Brown has announced that 
she will givo a loving! cup to tho 
winner of tho Beauty Contest, pro
vided the cup shall rotato from year 
to year among tho winners. This Is 
the final step In tho realization of 
tho hopes of tho committee in 
cliargo, for with Dean Brown In favor 
of the contest, tlioy aro assured of 
succesB.
The conditions under which tho 
cup will bo given are:
FirstThat) the cup shall not re*1 
main in tho possession of tho win
ner longer than ono year, and that 
tho cup shall bo returned to tho of* 
flee of the Doan prior to the contest 
for tbe succeeding year.
SecondThat tliero shall bo no pol
itics connected with tlio contest, and 
this fact has been mndo posslblo by 
tho arrangomoht with tho Judges.
ThirdThat tho contest shall bo 
conducted as a regular activity, and 
shall bo onlorod by all girls.
Tho plan for tlio elimination of 
politics has boon worked out by tho 
commltteo, and It is quite satisfac
tory. Tho plcturos will bo all print
ed by Mr. McClny, and will bo sent 
to tho editor. A group of tho faculty 
and students on the commitloo from 
tho Arts College will pick tho 7' 
most promising photographs, and 
they will bo Handed to tho editor. 
Tho pictures picked will bo sent to 
ono of tho three Judges, with Instruc
tions for him lo pick tho olght most 
attractlvo. Tlion thoy will bo sunt 
back, and tho olght wlnnors names 
will bo recorded, Tho ontlro group 
will bo soni to tho second Judgo with 
tho Instructions to soloet Ills i'avor* 
It eight. Tho names of thoso will bo 
recorded. Then tho third judgo will 
pick eight, and when thoy lmvo all 
boon Judged, tho editor will count 
tho number of votes for ttho one* 
picked, and tho six photographs 
which liavo boon mentioned tho 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Got your ticket for the Junior ban
quet yet? Bettor hurry. Theyre on 
sale on tho campus now in all schools 
for 52.50.
Everything pertaining to the ban
quet has boon settled by tho commit
tee with the single exception of tlio 
entertainment. It is certain that 
there will be several numbers by somo 
students from the College of Fine 
Arts, and in addition there will bo 
something especially good from the' 
Keith circuit.
The monu has been selected and 
everyone knows the kind of food 
which is served at tho Schenley! Nuf 
ced. One thing is certain. Every man 
who goes to the banquet is coming 
away with that satisfied feollng 
which eomos from a flno meal, good 
smokos, good entertainment, and 
good fellowship.
To add the proper touch of tho 
soason, Jimmy Robertson, trl-stato 
quarterback, and Jakoy Boliren, Pitt 
eel, will be on dock. Thoso of you 
who liavo wished to look over these 
two boys again for purposes of com
parison, will got a chance Docembor IB.
Thoy aro alike In many rospocts. 
Both aro tho smallost men in tliolr 
rospoctlvo baokflolds, relying on spood 
Instead of wolght. Both call signals. 
Both aro a constant throat to oppon
ents. Nolthor has boon consistently 
stopped by any toam this soason. In 
tho Carnoglo-PItt j<amo, thoy stopped 
each other bettor ilmn any other loam 
has done. In addition, both lmvo 
played tliolr last gaino of colloglato 
football. Its suro l.o bo good. Como 
and soo thom.
Tho combination menus and pro
grams lmvo boon printed by tho Sin
ger Pon and Gift Shop, and aro ox 
eoptlonally good. Thoy will servo an 
souvenirs of tho occasion, and twenty 
years from now, when you aro sitting 
boforo tho fire with numerous kids 
sitting around, you can drag out tin.1 
program and recall again thoso happy 
days when you wore Free and Broke.
Dig down and got that .$2.50. R( 
member December 15, 7 oclock, Motel 
Schenley,
On Saturday at one o'clock, tho 
Varsity and Pittsburgh Clans and 
live hundred students will gather in 
the ball room of the William Poun 
for the luncheon in honor of the 
men who have represented Carnegie 
in sports this fall. The luncheon 
will take the place of the football 
banquet of other years. One thound guests are expected.
Tho sale of student tickets has 
been extended to the Sophomore and 
Tosliman classes. Many of the low
er class men and wonien made imme
diate use of the privilege to buy a 
ticket at the Alumni Office. The 
number of tago being worn on tho 
campus indicates a fairly large sale 
among tho students, though not so 
largo as tho program for Saturday 
and the price of $2.00 would seem to 
warrant. Many of tho, faculty aro ex
pected to bo prosent.
Tho honor guests of tho occasion 
will bo tho oaichiiug stall, tho varsity 
football squad, tho cross-country 
toam, and tlio Freshman football 
team. Roprosontatlvos of tho- Carne
gie Corporation, of tho trustees of 
Carnogle Toch, of officials of tho 
ity and1 county, and of ovory alumni 
clan will bo present.
Ono Important function of tho 
luncheon will bo tho election of next 
year's football captain. Taylor, Gil
bert and Newman aro tho logical 
candidates. The Tartan has negted to take a straw vote and can 
make no predictions.
Tho monu will be the principal ob
ject. of attontlon for tho drat, hour, 
with music and ontortalnmont to ro
ll eve the monotony of mastication. 
(Con!Inuod on Pago Four.)
S. I. E. DINNER TO BE HELD
IN M. M. CAFETERIA DEC. 5
Program Announced for 
Night School Smoker
The smoker to be held by the stu
dents of the classes in the Electrical 
Construction Department in Night 
School, December 14th, will be held 
in the Faculty Club room instead of 
the Union as was previously an
nounced. Arrangements have gone 
ahead and the committee has an
nounced that in addition to the speak
ers of the evening, some of the best 
original talent of the school as well 
as outside will have places on the pro
gram. The committee state that they
ANOTHER CARNEGIE 
GIRL BECOMES BRIDE
have secured for the evening Polazzi, ____ ____
an entertainer from the Arts School, Betty Koch, wore peach-colored satin
A very beautiful wedding, of inter
est to students of Carnegie Tech, took 
place Thanksgiving morning wlion 
Miss Helen McAleese was married to 
Mr. John Joseph Daley. The bride, 
who was formerly employed In the 
Central Building, wore a gown of 
white brocaded chiffon with court 
train of white satin. Her tulle veil 
was held in place by a band of rhine 
stones. Miss Hilda Lissfelt, as the 
maid of honor wore 'orange chiffon, 
and the other attendants were Miss 
Catherine OConnor, in orchid chiffon 
shaded into deep purple, Miss Mary 
Carey, in peach chiffon shaded into 
coral, Miss Stella McAleese, in pale 
green shaded into darker green, and 
Miss Elizabeth Daley, in pink chiffon 
shaded into wisteria. The attend
ants wore similar hats of taffeta 
blending with their dresses, with 
streamers of silver over the shoul
ders. The little flower-girl, Miss
MANDOLIN CLUB MEN NOTE
There will bo a Mandolin Club v 
hoarsiiil Wednesday night in the 
Union for tho holiday trip. All mon 
should bo prosont.
BLAZE THREATENS
SCIENCE BUILDING
A fire which last Friday morning 
providod smoko and excitement for 
tho Chemistry Dopartinont and for a 
while threatened tho oast wing of 
Scionce Building wuu extinguished 
only through the prompt and ofllciont 
action of tho sections lire depart
ment.
One of tho Ingenue chemists was 
re fluxing fatty acids to make soap 
when tho flask containing tho oils 
cracked and the contents Ignited. The 
lire department went Into action im 
mediately, and after a rapid search 
found a lire extinguisher.
Petroleum fumes circulating nearby 
formed the greatest inepaco to peace 
and security in the laboratory.' With 
Fire Chief W. P. Bltler working the 
nump of tbe extinguisher and Hoseman Marcus Tullus Inman, Jr., direct
ing the stream of chloride solution 
the flames were quickly brought under 
control and great disaster avoided, 
The damages included a broken 
flask and four drawer handles con
sumed by the fire. The loss Is not 
covered by insurance.
in a special Interview given to 
representative of the Carnegie TarI Continued on Page Four.)
Commercial Club 
Has Re-organized
Committee is Appointed to 
Draft Constitution
Wo take groat ploasuro In announc
ing I ho revival ol! the official organi
zation of tho Dopartmont ol' Comtnorclal Knglnoorlng, namely tho Commer
cial Club.
It appeared lis If tho departing 
Seniors of 19211 took with thom- tho 
very heart of tho organization, but af
ter permitting tho club to lie dor
mant for half of the semester, moiuo 
of the leading lights of the class of 1took upon themselves the taalc 
of reorganization.
A mooting was called and olii corn 
wore olectod. A committee to draft a 
new constitution was appointed' and 
will undoubtedly bo in a position to 
publish the new articles within a 
short timo.
Tho Commercials aro admittedly 
among tho llvest students on tlio 
campus and from all uppoaraneos the 
rejuvenated Commercial Club will bo 
in keeping with progressive spirit of 
tho business engineers. Moro about 
this club later.
Have U Heard the Dizzy 8 
If You Aint It's Not Too Late
A. J. Rich, pianist, the Overseas Im 
perial Quartet, and "Socks Price, 
who is also well known around the 
campus as an entertainer. They be
lieve that with these numbers assured 
the affair will prove a most enjoyable 
one for the men for whom It is 
planned.
jected to having their nice white tub ' stairs at 460 Forbes street any after
soiled by contact with the poor little [ (Continued on Page Two.)
The Society of Industrial Engineers 
will hold a dinner on Wednesday, De
cember 5, at G p. m. In the Margaret 
Morrison Cafeteria. Mr. McCoy, of 
the Moulders Trade Union will be 
the principal speaker of the evening.
Tags are now on sale for members 
and Sophomores interested in the de
partments of Machine Production and 
Building Construction.
For further particulars see J. B. 
Foster, president of the S. I. E., or 
Cliff Zinn, secretary.
FIELD SECRETARY OF W. B. M.
TO SPEAK AT Y. W. MEETING
M13S Margaret E. Lewis, Fold Sec
retary of the Womans Boards of Mis
sions of tho Presbyterian Church In 
the United States, will be the speak
er at tho Y. W. C. A. meeting which 
will be held tomorrow, December 0, 
at 10:20 in the Recreation Hall of 
the Margaret Morrison Building.
Miss Lewis is a very Interesting 
and entertaining speaker and all who 
can should hear her. Lunch will be 
served In the Recreation Hall.
A
with a large bow in her hair. Mr. 
Joseph Nugent acted as Mr. Daleys 
best rnan; the ushe.rs included Mr. 
Jerry OShea, Mr. Walter Barry, Mr, 
Gerard Lackner, and Mr, John McCune.
The frocks and hats worn by tho 
bridal party were made at Margaret 
Morrison, by the Senior girls of the 
Costume Economics, Dopartmont and 
reflected much credit on their ability 
and good taste.
MARGARET MORRISON GIRL
BRIDE OF PITTSBURGHER
Miss Catherine Bello Speak, of Klrtland street, Pittsburgh, a Margaret 
Morrison girl of the class of 1920, was 
married to Richard J, Flaherty, of this 
city, on November 16. Tbe bride and 
groom are spending a month In Cali
fornia, and expect to be at home at 
GOO Klrtland street, by Christmas.
Porhaps you huve hoard of (lie 
Dizzy Eight?" .Then again, per
haps you havent. For the benefit of 
those who never heard of :t, the. 
"Dizzy Eight Is a famous Maggie 
Murph orchestra, whose members sire 
all taken from the Junior class.
The "Dizzy Eight was founded 
laBt year, working up gradually from 
a piano with an accompaniment of 
uomba to itn present status of one 
piano, one vlolm, two mandolins, one 
ukelele and one tenor banjo.
At present thero are but six of the 
redoubtable eight available, but, just 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Thanksgiving Day Enjoyed by Turks 
Who Visit Pittsburgh Boiler Works
By DON GARDNER
Last Thursday, the day we coleurated the Pilgrims first wash day 
hy going home and hanging out the 
lino to tho girl who was waiting foi 
us, was ono that shall go dovvn In 
the annuoils of history. No longor will 
Washington's tour across the Dela
ware or Caesar's olopomonf across 
tho Alps hold precedence In the mind 
of tho school going) urchin. No long
or will little Willlo Jones remember 
that Babe Ruth hung Iho old apple 
on tbo right flold) ondosure In the 
tenth inning of tho 1492 Worlds 
cries with tho bases dogged and 
ten yards to go, or that Stanislaus 
Zhyswo swallowed ton hard boiled 
eggs, three assorted swords and 
twelve dozen blue points In three* 
minutesten seconds back In tb
Flapper Age,
True, Thursday was Thanksgiving 
Day, theres no getting around it. 
Everybody agrees that It was, Tho 
oanlcs were closed, nobody but tho 
cook worked, and oven our faculty 
approved tho celebration, And then 
there was a football contest, doucha 
know. Anri If Just happened that a 
friend of ours needed somo tickets 
And since wo had been In attend
ance at college and wore assumed to 
know tho Intricacies con nee tod with 
obtaining whal, tho dally papers so 
aptly term coveted pasteboards, wo 
wero plckod for tho job. Our friend 
merely mentioned that ho enved a 
flock of tickets, slipped several case 
notes In our hand and departed. And 
there we were. Next; to paint'ng the 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1923
Cingie -tan
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Irmtltute of^ 
Technology under tho supervilon of the Student Council.
Entered in tho PoHtolIlce of Pittsburgh a Hccond clamatter.
W. CUNNINGHAM ..
Telophouo Schenley 0143.................... BuHlne Manager
Telephone Schenley 9211
FRED T. PIIELPS...
Telephone Schenley 9189 
........................................................AHHlHtant Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley 9220ABHOclate Editor
H. II. WILSON ...........AHHOclate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9070
Telephone Schonley 9070
Telephone Schonley 9211. Athletic Editor
A. IO. KROGH..............
R. W. 8 LE AT I I .........
W. K. JI3FFREY ....
Telophono Schonley 9143,. .Alumni Editor 
... Photographer 
Exchange Editor
. Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY......................
B. BROUDY .............................
W. M. GIBSON...
................ Circulation Mana/sor
Aaslntant BuHiness Manfe^r 
.AHHlHtant BuHlnoH Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
En tollo Garibaldi, Elizabeth Gordon, L. II. Harri, K. Fulmer, Wilma 
Stinnr, Carol VOL.XIN J. M. Knrly, W. R K.iufmuii, F. I,. WKiior. N. t. Wow 
V. IS. Hmltli, C. A. Luiidqulst, l>. M. DiivlilHon, E. 13. Kearmi, I*. M. McClellunu, 
M. W. Cuy, Itomumiry MrCanihrUI);'', !. I Koni.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Ilolon Cornio, G. E. .Incoliy, .T. ChrlHtoff, II. I*. Ratinimeli.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
II MoHkovltz, .1. W. Metro, P. Edio, K. h. Sandrock, A. Grodner, K h. 
12CACRE J. II. Solbort, I. E. Krldlor, A. Barbrow, A. Perrotoii, U. O. Kennedy.
Tho Edllor-ln-CliloE 1b voUpoiiBlblo ior tlio policy ol tlilH paper; tlio 
Managing Editor for tlin nmlio up.
Tbo Turtan wolconios all communication of Btudout Intercut, If Blgnod. 
Signature will bo withhold If doslrod. All now Items must bo In tlio Btudent
ooHtolUco boForo 4:30 Tburuday. ________________________________________________
Tartan OlilcoRoom 5-A, Industrien Building. Olllco hours Dally 12:30-
ENDING A GREAT SEASON
At. 1:00 K M. Saturday, the 1923 football season will lie brought 
to a fitting end with the'Varsity Clan and Pijifsburgh Clan joint 
luncheon, at which time the football teams, varsity and plebe, and the 
cross-country team will be the guests of honor. Never before has 
111 is luncheon assumed the proportions that; it will this year, and 
never before lias it been held under conditions such as will prevail 
this year. In the past it lias been customary to hold merely a foot
ball banipffit on the evening after the last football game of the season. 
This year, the Varsity and Pittsburgh Clans will unite to do proper 
honifge to I lie lighting and loyal band of athletes who so nobly 
upheld the nnmje of Carnegie Tech during the successful season just
finished. . . . ,Bnl, mout. important of nil from the student point ol. view, is tne 
fitttfc that live hundred tickets aro available for those of the student 
body who wish to go. No urging is necessary to got students to at
tend : rather, it will be a ease of first come, first served.
(J. L. Til brook of the Alumni Office is in direct charge of student 
tickets, and will be in his office ready to dispose of the important 
pasteboards whomever comes for them for the small sum of two 
bucks. .Speaking of two bucks- -its n small price to pay to get tne 
chance of hearing Wally StolVon deliver one of his stirring speeches; 
to henr what Buddy Overend has to say on athletics in general; to 
got n glimpse, of, end hear prominent Pittsburghers,.:such as Judge 
Hul'llngton, Mayor Magee and Gouncilmnn Garlnnd; not to mention 
Mi*, 'baboon, whom ovorybody around Cnrncgie Tccli knows as a 
Kiiper-Carnegio Techito. Again, there might bo something definite 
about the coaching situation next- year, nnd furthermore, there might 
be nu nnnounoomon.l; ol! nexl. years football, schedule, plus something
definite about baseball. Best of nil...you will hoar all of this first
hand.hets inn Ice the William Penn ballroom resound as it never has 
before with ('IIEKRS FOR CARNUdIU T13CH.
THE FALLACY OF THE ELSEWHERE
Many things with which wo have become intimately familiar nnd 
many events which take place in our own small spheres of life harbor 
opportunities whose values we do not judge aright, .lilvidenco of this 
peculiarity of human beings are numerous, We will one day pass 
by some event which may happen in our immediate vicinity, which 
iii. n later day in our life we may travel miles to be participants 
I hereof.Tho stereotype excuse for failure to sie/.o many ol! these oppor
tunities is that the average college students store of lime is usually 
Bitdiy depleted. II! one wishes to attend a meeting of this organisa
tion) he must pare the time off that allotted to this subject; if one 
wishes to go to that social alTair, one must reduce the time devoted to 
that study.' But a really efficient person is one who can allot the 
proper and discreet amount ol! time for his studies, for participation 
in. activities! for social affairs, and for that mental development which 
is obtained outside the classroom.
Last week there was delivered on our campus a series of lectures 
by the eminent scientist, Dr. Niels Bohr of the University of Copen
hagen. The audience which greeted Dr. Bohr on the opening night 
overflowed the Assembly Room of the Engineering Collegemute 
 evidence of our need for a large auditorium. There was no doubt 
about the fact that many people were desirous of receiving first-hand 
enlightenment from the man who was awarded the Nobel prize in 
Physics for the year 1922; but the fact which we wish to bring to 
light is that of the many persons in attendance at these lectures only 
a small percentage were Carnegie students.
It is possible that many were too busy with this, or could not 
spare a few hours from that, to hear this remarkably modest speaker, 
who has welded his own great discoveries with those of other great 
scientists in creating a new theory of the structure of the atom, 
which explains all the phenomena which could be accounted for by 
the older classical theory, and many more besides.
It is not to be expected that a student should comprehend every
thing which such a learned scientist could say, yet one can secure 
much knowledge, which would be difficult to obtain from a book, and 
at the same time pay the proper, homage due such a great man.
President Baker has arranged a very formidable list of speakers 
who will lecture on our campus during the present year. Some of 
these are learned men; others are great as well as learned. We have 
now, as students, the opportunity to hear these men. Many of us, 
who will not grasp the opportunity now, will later in life find it very 
convenient to travel miles and spend days of time for tho very same 
opportunity. Tis tho fallacy of tho olsewhoro.
COMMENT FOR SAFETY COMMITTEE
Tho committee on tho safety program for fire prevention has 
overlooked one thing- the center door of the Margaret Morrison 
Building is locked ninety per cent of the time. Should a (ire break 
out in the building, many of the girls would be smothered or crushed 
in the revolving side doors before the person who has tho key could 
reach the center door and unlock it. Surely this is quite as impor'tani. 
as the locked doors in the Little Theater.
MUSICAL CLUBS READY
FOR CHRISTMAS TRIP
(Continued From Page Ouo.) 
delphia and Washington, D. C. In 
January a Cow concerts will he giv
en at New Kensington, May view and 
other neighboring places. Then in 
February a trip will he taken to 
Cleveland, AkrOn, Orrville and Elyria.
The season promises to be the 
most active that the clubs have ever
had; and extra preparation and c..._ 
is being taken to make it tlio most 
successful.
The Girls Glee Club has also ar
ranged concerts for December and 
January, including a radio KDKA 
concert
The first Musical Clubs dance will 
be on Decembers S. Tlie specialty 
numbers used on the trip will fur 
nish the entertainment. The assess
ment is only one dollar.
Engineers Receive ! [  j j
Expensive Machinery ! By Mac. j
Extensive Gifts of Equipment 
Received in Past Year
Prqfiment Baker has made a report 
of donation and loans made to the 
various departments of the school. It 
has been tho custom for Home year, 
for varlouB concern and business 
house, to give gifts of machines, and 
equipment to the school. The ma
chines are In use In the various de
partment, and the exhibit are 
placed In the lecture room, to how 
the utudents how things are made.
Tho donation to the College of En
gineering aro divided among three de
partment, and a few miscellaneous 
award were made. The Physic De
partment received three lenses of 
Light House Ited Ola, valued at 
$150, from the Macbeth-Evan Gla 
Company. The Mechanics' Laboratory 
received an Ammonia Ice Machine, 
valued at $200, and equipment for the 
machine totaling $1,050, making a 
grand total of $2,150 for the depart
ments ice plant. Various other ap
paratus. High Speed Engine Indlcators, Air Meter and Solid Injection 
Air Meter were also received, valued 
at $1,375.
The Chemistry Department receiv
ed the following exhibits:
Value.
Lantern Slide ...........................$ 667.20
Edison Cell Exhibit.................. 125.00
Taylor Instrument Controls.. 425.00
Ampere Hour Meters................ 75.00
Firestone Tire Exhibit.............. 150.00
Storage Battery Exhibit......... 260.00
Chemical Exhibits .................. 200.00
Carborundum Exhibit ............. 25.00
Gas Analysis Apparatus..... 18.00 
Motion Picture African Dia
mond Mines" .......................... 75.00
Total ...........................................$2,020.20
The donations for the College of 
Industries were divided among three 
departments, and were augmented by 
various loans to the Printing Depart
ment. The loans embraced a Mono
type Machine, a Linotype Machine 
and equipment for both. The dona-1 
tlons were headed by a Text Book 
Fund, donated by the United Typotlietae of America, involving $1,000. 
This was given to the Printing De
partment. Other gifts to the Printing 
Department embraced miscellaneous 
machinery and equipment making a 
total of $1,807.
Tho Heating, Ventilating and San
itary Engineering Department re
ceived an Arc Welding Machine, val
ued at $1,200. Tho other material 
totaled $562, and the total amount of 
the gifts amounted to $2,762.
Tho Electric Equipment Depart
ment received fittings valued at $195, 
and the Industrial Science Depart
ment received a Permitut Water Soft
ener valued at $150.
ASSEMBLY
MARGARET MORRISON
Margarot Morrison Assembly Inst 
Tuesday was in charge of Miss Mary 
Louise Brown, Dean of Women. Miss 
Brown discussed a matter of general 
Interest and instruction, namely, 
"Manners, Tho Maggie Murphs sinoorolyi hope thnli Miss Brown will at
tend tholr assembly again1 and con
tinue her discussion of this subject.
Members of the Freshman class 
proHontod a clever buWouquo on a 
Plobo Trial. The) ponaltion metod out 
woro . cortalnlyi made to lit the 
dime, and a few of them 
would pal color into life on tho
caniivus. For example....lessons in
love-making every day at noon at 
the Senior fence, nnd a. sham ,escape 
of a Mniggle Murpli from tho burning 
gym.
The Junior Orchestra, played sever 
al smi'ppy popular numbers to con 
elude tlio program.
By Mac.
Glad to note that Notre Dame lias 
accepted our invitation to return next 
year. This bring to our mind that 
little Htory about the wolf that went 
to the well once too often. We'll keep 
hammering at them a we hammered 
at Pitt and theyre bound to fall.
Noticed in one of the local news
paper account of that game a ref
erence to our chool as the Univer
sity of Technology." Either that re
porter is away ahead of us, or he is 
terribly uninformed. We are in
clined to believe the latter.
Not long ago we took it upon ourelves to administer a mild razzing 
to the Sophomores through the me
dium of this column. That the criti
cism had the desired effect was evi
denced by the increased vigilance of 
the Sophs during the past two weeks 
at inspections and assemblies.
THANKSGIVING DAY ENJOYED 
BY TURKS WHO VISIT
PITTSBURGH BOILER WORKS
(Continued From Page One.) 
Equitable Life Insurance ad on the 
Rock of Gibralter we had one of the 
softest jobs that has been handed 
out since Adam wrote his thesis on 
tho snortage of fruit.
At flrst it looked compartively sim 
pie. From the bystanders' view 
point all that was necessary was to 
enroll in the college concerned and 
attend four years, obtain a Masters 
Degree, petition the faculty, join the 
local chapter of the Omnipotent 
Grand Exaltedi High and Mighty 
Rooters Association, marry the grad
uate managers daughter, and then 
steal four tickets out of his ves 
pocket. It looked easy but there 
was only one hitch. It was already 
Wednesday and the managers daugh
ter was in Egypt buying' her summer 
furs.
The next step seemed to be the 
application of a little intrigue, as 
the Eskimos call it:. We bought a 
printing press, nine galleys of assort
ed type, hired two printers, and went 
to work. At the end of that harrow
ing night wo had exactly four tick
ets, beautifully embellished in sixtoon of tho most polarized colors
With the good came the evil how
ever, and this .applies to the College 
of Engineering in particular, although 
it may be true throughout the entire 
Sophomore class. Inspections are
sometime divided among the various 
departments, that is, the Electricals 
one morning, the Mechanicals an
other and so on, and it has leaked out 
that the Plebes who signify their in
tention to affiliate with the particular 
department on duty are exempted 
from inspection by that group! We 
hope this isnt true!
Chapel at 12:50, Thursday. Evid'ent 
ly that notice means little or nothing 
to the vast majority of Carnegie stu
dents. To see such meager turnouts 
at each chapel exercise must be really 
disheartening to the Y members who 
are striving to establish theBe serv
ices as permanent features of our non
scholastic activities here at Carnegie. 
At a great many colleges in the counti*y, attendance at chapgl service is 
compulsory, therefore we should pride 
ourselves in the fact that compulsion 
at Carnegie is unnecessary. It is 
safe to say that the big majority of 
those who go once whether out of 
curiosity or what not, find themselves 
a regular attendant at subsequent 
services.
We were kinder disappointed when 
out notable contemporary, the Puppet, 
failed to make its appearance, as 
scheduled last Tuesday. Anybody 
else feel that way?
CIVILS HEAR ADDRESS 
ON TUNNELLING METHODS
Hard Rock Tunnels" was the sub
ject of an interesting talk given by 
Mr. C. D. McArthur, special represen
tative of the Blaw-Knox Company, be
fore the Carnegie Chapter, A. S. C. E. 
last week.
Mr. McArthur outlined ancient tun
neling methods which remained prac
tically unchanged for centuries. Tho 
invention of gun powder very mate
rially effected tunneling methods. At 
tho present time dynamite is used suc
cessfully in all hard rock tunneling 
operations with a very material re
duction In tho timo of construction.
Construction methods used in the 
driving of somo of tho greatest tun
nels in existence today were detailed. 
The Catskill Aquoduct of tho Now 
York City water system was driven 
from both ends. Tho conter linos of 
tho two borings were only a quarter 
of an inch apart when tlio borings 
mot. A description of tho Niagara 
Fulls Power Company tunnel was also 
given.
The talk was well illustratod by 
'didos of different tunneling projects. 
Mr, McArthur has had a very exten
sive and intimate association with tho 
problems of designing and operating 
forms for large engineering struc
tures. He is also tho originator and 
patentee of several important meth
ods used in construction work.
COMMENTS
you ever saw. The day was saved, 
our friendi would not want for tick
ets, everything Was jake. At least 
thats what we thought.
When day broke we fondled our 
creations in our perspiring palms 
and kissed them rapturously at short 
intervals. Then we took one last 
longing look. A ghastly shriek rang 
out in the still air and we fainted 
dead away. When we revived we 
looked! again. There on the face of 
each and every pasteboard was the 
legend Nazimova. vs. Annie Oakley, 
Hotel Yoder, Thursday nite!" The 
truth dawned on us. We hadnt 
changed the type that was on tho 
machine when we got it!
Sorely wounded] in pride, and sob
bing inwardly we wended our way to 
the field. Our friend would be wait
ing. We had proved unworthy of his 
trust. All was' lost.
Hey, mister, says a voice behind 
up, do youns want four tickets for 
a dollar?"
Did we! We should l\ope to men
tion we did! And we did. That, 
children, is why our name will bo 
written on the great golden tablets 
of history ahead! of Washington, Na
poleon and even Robertson, Ander
son and Brumbaugh.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5S. 1. E. Banquet............................................M. M. Cnfotevin, 6:00 P. M.
PlvI DAY, DECEMBER 7 
Musical Club Dance................................... ....................Union, 9:00 I*. M.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER S
Varsity Olan Banquet..................................Fort. Pitt. Hotel, 1:00 P, M.
Carnegie Tccli Guild Carnival...........................Langlev Lab and Union
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14 
Freshmen Dance.................................................. ........Union, 9:00 P. M.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15 
Junior Banquet.............................................Hotel Schenley, 7:00 P. M.
AVEDNESDAY, DECEMBER. 19 
Christmas Recess Begins.
JANUARY 3, 1924 
Classes resumed in Day School.
FATHER AND SON
The following letter was written by 
Professor Samuel N. Spring, a Yale 
graduate of 98, to his son, now in 
Yale, somewhat after the manner ot 
the recent widely quoted letter of J. 
D. Swain, Yale, 92.
My dear Son: I am setting down
here in writing some of the things 
that you and I have occasionally dis
cussed but never full formulated. 1 
did not speak of them last night, 
wlien we were strolling up and down 
waiting for the train. My heart 
was too full to utter them, although 
I had purposely started from home 
early, I confess,, so that there might 
be ttfne for just a word or two, at 
least, about the wonderful four years 
ahead of you. Instead we talked 
cheerful commonplaces.
Your going to Yale brings home 
rather sharply my advancing years, 
although the grey around my temples 
and the inclination to sit down com
fortably and) smoke after 18 holes of 
golf with you should have done that. 
We have been great cbums, espec
ially since the barrier of childhood 
was throwh down when you were 
about fifteeneach year we have 
ibeen closer together, until now it is 
man to man. Of course, I do not 
fill the place that one of your own 
age does but perhaps something 
more, for I can help you over some | 
of the rough places since I am a bit 
older, and have in no way lost touch 
with youths vision, enthusiasm and 
a/mbitions.
The joy of accomplishing real 
things is just as keen as when I 
was your age. Obviously I shall 
grow old physically, but there need 
never coine a time when I cannot 
appreciate the experience which you 
will be having and, I hope, remain 
your chum always.
First of all, let me say that I feel 
a son is entitled to his fathers posi
tive views, not that these are to be 
thrust upon him, for each man has 
to decide his own life principles and 
to work out his own practice. What 
I have to say is that as man to man 
and to give you the best I can on 
some problems.
Of course you have heard the hack
neyed advice, Beware of wine and 
women." That always seems to in
vite research; therefore, I do not 
thrust that thesis upon you. You 
know your mothers and my high 
standards. You have been singular
ly clean-m,ind!ed here at home and at 
preparatory school. You have had, 
happily a. large group both of boy 
and girl friends here, and that is as 
it should be. You will undoubtedly 
find social opportunity for making 
further friendships. It has always 
seemed to mo tliat association with 
good! women is one of the most valu
able things in life. I can count to
day many women as well as men 
lriertds. Whether you find girl 
friends during your course or not, 
tho surest safeguard against putting 
a blot on your life is in the circle 
of friends you gain among your fellow-students.
I hope you will have a 'genuine at
titude of friendship for all men you 
meet, not that spirit occasionally 
present in the unspoken thought, I 
wonder if I am friendly with this fel
low, whether it will spoil my chances 
for making"
Ripen the friendships that are 
worth while thoso that reveal mu
tual regard and mutual ideals that 
are high. Real friendships are not 
mere convenient alliances, but aro 
mMe 'byi real and unselfish devotion. 
Bo your ownself and you will find 
happy social times among your class
mates.
In decision with reference to the 
use of your time you might well 
keep ih mind the real purpose for 
which you are at Yale and exercise 
a discriminating judgment of values. 
You camriot of course realize the 
length of this period of middle age 
in which I now find myself. I do and 
I can assure you son it is a long! 
time andl that the most complete and 
thorugh preparation Tor it will en
able you to be of the highest serv
ice in life and give you greater hap
piness. I would not be true to my-; 
j self if I did not, thererore, urge you; 
i to strive for academic honor. Too i 
many undergraduates today, as in | 
my day, are content with superficial j 
knowledge and a passing grade, j 
Four years training in mental lazi-1 
ness is poor preparation for life j 
which requires the keenest mental I 
powers.
Your mother and I both ask and | 
expect you to apply- yourself to your 
courses, but that need not limit you j 
in attainment in other lines, so long 
as you maintain the proper balance. 
We desire you, so long as you are inj 
college, to be fully a part of it. I j 
therefore urge you also to strive for j 
physical supremacy as well as intel
lectual. If -you fail to make a team, 
the endeavor until you are dropped 
from the squad, is well worth while; 
and if do succeedwell I can still 
give the Yale cheer lustily!
Last of all, there is something 
other than scholarship, than athletics, 
than mere friendship and happy, 
carefree existence in college. Some 
one has said that the only full and 
final object of all endeavor upon the 
earth is the development of the hu
man soul. That seems more true to 
me every day. One cannot afford to 
brush lightly aside all thoughts of 
religion and, live a life of expediency 
from day to day. The development 
of the highest character is not by the 
formulation of a mere "gentlemans 
code of conduct, but by belief in 
the a living livid exemplification of 
the life and teachings of Jesus of 
Nazareth. A delclared position in re
spect to religion is of the highest 
importance and it will give your 
mother and me great joy if you find 
it in your heart to make your posi
tion known. Religion i3 not in the 
same realm as the facts of natural 
science, but is largely a matter of 
faith, and whether we concede it or 
not, faith enters into each part of 
our life. Your service to your fel
low students to Yale, and to your 
country will be highest if you have 
striven for spiritual development 
and have shared tne Christian corcem for human suffering so wide
spread in these past years. If you 
forget all else I have written, remem
ber that I hold sound! character above 
every thing else, for without its de
velopment the equipment of your col
lege course is useless.
I would not write at such length 
if I did not realize how close to
gether we really are and whatever 
the success or the failure tbht may 
come to you, do not forget the un
bounded faith I have in you always.
Love,
DAD.
Yale.
RAPID INCREASE MARKS 
TARTAN CIRCULATION
DISHEVELED DOGGIE 
DEVELOPS INTO MERCIFUL
MAGGIE MURPHS MASCOT
(Continued From Page One.) 
noon, and though no tea will be 
served, her guests will be well enter 
tained.
'She is especially popular with the 
men who visit the "dorm occasion
ally, and with the chaperone! The 
men enjoy having yellow hairs rubbed 
off on their trouser legs. The chap
erone enjoys being awakened at night 
by whinings and scratching. And so 
everyone is satisfied.
Just at present, the girls are con
sidering buying a cat and a canary to 
add to the family circle, and teaching 
them all to love one another. With a 
few gold fish and tadpoles for the 
hack yard, to be added in the spring, 
the menagerie will be complete.
To get back to S'ara Louise, all 
scientific men, especially, are invited 
over to hear her bark, and to give 
their real opinion about her excep
tional merits. She is bound to prove 
a new field for scientific investigation, 
as well as a loyal little friend and 
mascot.
FRANK BROTHERS
FiiiiiAvomie Bool Shop
Deiwwn -I71 ...1 -istlj Streets, Now York
Shoe satisfaction means 
style and worth.
Exhibit Shops in all the larger 
cities.
Williams not only so/teiis your beard faster but itconiains an ingredientwhich is of actual benefit to the skin.
Mtos)
$250 in Prizes
This is the new Hinged Cap on Williams Shaving 
Cream. Williams is the only shaving cream having 
this convenience feature. We want you to tell us 
how the cap appeals to you. So we make this offer :
/ \ 
For the best sontence of ton words or less on the value 
of tho Williams Hinged Cap, wo offer tho following 
prizos: 1st prizo $100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes,
$25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes, $5 
each. Any undergraduato or graduate student is eli
gible. If two or more persons submit idontical slogans 
doomed worthy of prizes, tho full amount of the prizo 
will bo awarded to each. Contest closes ot midnight 
March 14,1924. Winners will be announced as soon 
thereafter as possiblo. Submit any number of slogans 
but write on one side of paper only, putting name, 
address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address 
letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., 
Glastonbury, Conn.
\
The astounding growth of Carnegie 
as a school has not been more rapid 
than that of its student paper, the 
Carnegie Tartan. This paper has in
creased from a struggling sheet to a 
regular and dependable source of 
news.
The circulation has been practical
ly doubled in the past several years. 
Less than 4,000 copies per week were 
being printed in the year 1920-21, but 
over 5,000 papers are now needed to 
meet the demand. The paper has an 
extensive system of circulation which 
manages the wrapping, addressing 
and mailing of over 1,700 copies of 
every issue to the Carnegie alumni 
throughout the United States and the 
world.
Over 600 copies are distributed to 
the students attending night school, 
and the inter-school exchange re
ceives approximately 200 of each issuej The remaining copies go to ] 
the advertisers, school officials, etc.
The paper when originally started, 
was known as The Tartan, but was 
later given the more dignified title of 
The Carnegie Tartan, under which 
head it is now known. The paper for 
many years Contained only six col
umns to one page, but the increase 
in news and the rapid growth of the 
school necessitated an increase to the 
seven columns that it now contains. 
Still another increase in space is now 
needed to accommodate the present 
amount of news, and the staff has for 
some time been considering an en
largement of the paper.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
C. A. HEIMERTS
The Students Store 
and
The Better Shop for 
MEN
Your first thought Classy Hats, 
Caps and Haberdashery at Mod
erate Prices.
At
HEIMERTS
3614 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Next to Post Office. 
Established 1882.
A universal custom 
that benefits every-Everv body-Aids digestion, 
cleanses the teeth, 
soothes the throat.Meal
TWO FORMER CARNEGIE. MEN
GAIN PROMOTION IN ARMY
Former Captains J. S. Bragdon and 
G. J. Richards have both been re
cently promoted to the grade of 
Major in the Corps of Engineers, 
Regular Army.
Major Bragdon was in charge of 
tho Engineer Unit of the O. T. C. at 
Carnegie for three years. He. left 
last July to become an instructor at 
West Point. While here he received 
the degree of Master of Science.
Major Richards was a graduate 
student here, specializing in chemis
try. He also received a masters de
gree.
SECRETARIAL CLUB ELECTS
PINS AT BUSINESS MEETING
A business meeting of the Secre
tarial Club was held November 28. 
Miss Mary Louise 'Stolzenbach, chair
man of the Pin Committee, had sam
ples of pins from which a club pin 
was chosen which will identify the 
Secretarial girls around the campus 
of Carnegie Tech.
The problem of raising money for 
our scholarship was discussed and 
the following committee was appoint
ed: Gladys Sleppy, chairman; Flo
rence Johnston, Mildred Moren, Mar
guerite McGrath, Elizabeth Wright, 
and Nora Willefs. A bake sale lias 
been suggested to be held in the City 
Market Building sometime in the near 
future, but whatever we have will be 
carried out with the usual Carnegie 
spiritfor success.
THE^ 
FLAVOR LASTS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4. 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
*
*PLAID ATHLETICS
DYKEMAN SECOND IN Plebe and Varsity Football Teams 
INTER-COLLEGIATES: Finish Season of 1923 With Glory
thoy brolco a record for all college 
teams that played on Forbes Field. 
Tho record was a F)7-yard> pass from 
Hamilton to Voglit. Hannon, on the 
second scrimmage niter the pass, 
crossed tho lino tor a touchdown. A 
strong and wol 1-doveloped aerial at
tack featured the playing ol! tho 
Plobo touin.
A sojourn to Saltsburg the follow1- 
tug week-end was made by the young 
Sklbos. I-lore, thoy wero crushed: by 
tlip onslaught, of tho strong Kislci 
eleven. Tho scoru was 19 to 0. Tlio 
Plobos, ovor-'ooniuient after the groat 
tight against tho Panther Cubs the 
procoding Saturday, played in spurts. 
Ktski, oil tlio other hand, played hard, 
Btrmlgliti and consistent football. Tho 
only chance the Plaid had to scoro 
canio when thoy advanced the ball 
to Klski two-yard line, but the oppornents lino was like a cement wall 
and it hold. Again the Plobes desir
ing to show wliat they could do when 
so inspired held Kiski for downs on 
tho one-yard line.
In the final game of tho season, tho 
wonder team of the Bellefonte Acad
emy vanquished the Freshmen by the 
score of 40 to 01. This defeat cannot 
bo considered a disgrace because the 
Plebes wero outclassed, outweighed 
and outplayed; but thoy fought game
ly to the end. The Bellefonte team 
might well stack up against the var
sity and: give a good account of it
self.
Much credit is due Hugh Sprinkle 
for his patlopt and excellent work in 
coaching andl developing the Junior 
Skibos. Under his guidance has been 
brought to light ilno varsity mater
ial. The consistent, brainy and fast 
playing ot (HinanUton at quarter was 
outstanding during the entire sea
son; while in Harmon at halfback 
the Plobos had a hard, 'fast and clean 
football player. Captain Maniby at 
center, Hughes at right guard, Coop 
or at. loft guard and Guthrie at right 
tackle fonnod a combination hard' to 
boat.
On Docomibor S, tho Plobo team 
will bo tho guests ol tho Varsity and 
Pittsburgh Clans, at a. dinner to bo 
hold in tho William Penn Hotel.
CLOSE SCORES MARK 
CURRENT C.C. SEASONOn the Plaid Screen
Tartan Runner May Make 
Olympic Team Due to 
Great Run
Good Material for Battles of 
1924 is Found Among 
Freshmen
Most Successful Varsity 
Season Closes With 
Notre Dame
Finishing soeond in tho annual In
ter-Collegiate Cross Country meet .in 
New York last Monday, Howard Dykeman, Plaid ace, proved himself one of 
the outstanding nhtlotes of tho coun
try. Tho only man to show his lioels 
to Dykeman was Yorno Booth of 
Johns Hopkins, National Inter-Colle
giate champion.
HOWARD DYKEMAN
.According to all reports and tlio 
word of tho spectators who witnessed 
Dylcemans great race, his was a won
derful performance, and merited tho 
applauso which was generously con
ceded to him at tho close of tho 
meet.
Ho followed only about 100 yards 
behind tho winner and was congrat
ulated by a host of prominent ath
letes and well known sportsmen, in
cluding the president of tho associa
tion under whoso auspices tho moot 
was held. He furthorod Ills own 
fame and that of,his school by boat
ing out such sterling runners as Kirby, 
Nazro, and other famous distance 
men from Cornell, Columbia, Penn
sylvania, and other schools.
Dykeman's performance makes him 
a logicnl man to bo considorod for tho 
American Olympic toam, and It will 
not bo at nil surprising If ho is se
lected to accompany tho cream of 
America's athletic talent to tho alto 
of tiio next Olympic gamoa.
Tho tlmo of Booth was 82:20 and 
that of Dykoman 32:43. Jack Bright 
also ran in tho moot; and gnvo a good 
account of himself, although hot fin
ishing up in tho samo rank as his 
teammate.
Coach Halforty has oxprosaod him
self ns highly pleased at; tho showing 
his protogos made at tho moot and 
Is ospeclally proud of tho perform
ance of Dykeman.
GO TO THE
; Tech Barber Shop I
j; FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Flvo Barbara at your ocrvicc. I 
i ON FORBES, TWO DOORS J 
BELOW CHAIG
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ton yonrn' oxporlcnao.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Kstnbllnhod 1880, 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jon. P. Flnhor, Jr.,
Owner nncl Mnnnaor. Court 05D<1To wliio younu person oonnolontloiifi ndvloo nnd imotieiitlono from men long experi
enced In flnnnolnl nffnlrn often 
prove Invaluable.
Thin la one w ny In which 
thrifty you no men nnd women 
clopoultoi'ii profit throucih their 
denllnij with tho Mellon National Bank.
Our officer take poraonnl prldo In promoting tho flnnnolnl wel
fare of our ouijtomorn.
did Professor Smith mean i n in" when lie told yon in*1 could over make a ic out ol' a sow car?"Compliments
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Next To Strand Theater Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGSEomO
Hie master drawing pendi'
17 landsall dealersDAD WHYTE BIDS
ADIEU TO CARNEGIE
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
of tho achool, for overy atudont can 
vouch that ho was most gonoroua and 
ever ready to lend a helping hand. 
Dad always had an affinity for Wheel
ing stogies, and with the aid of a fovv 
of these, an enterprising Plebe could 
work wonders in machine shop.
During his seventy-six years of ex
istence, Mr. Whyte conshlors our first 
Carnegie Day the most eventful. Col
onel Church gave a "family party 
and had all the old followers of Car
negie Tech upon the Music Hall stage, 
when he observed Dad in the audi
ence. Dad was called upon, and al
though reluctant to ascend, was ush
ered to the platform by a number of 
students, the remembrance of which 
he prizes most highly.
As a farewell to the boys at Car
negie Tech he stated:
I am very sorry to leave Carnegie, 
for in the seventeen years I have 
been here, I have always received the 
greatest consideration and respect 
from the students, and I never met a 
finer bunch of fellows anywhere. They 
have done everything- to make things 
pleasant for me, and I have done the 
best I could to help those around me.
I leave with great regret, but it is 
very necessary that I go, and so, as a 
word of parting, I can only say that if 
you are ever near Grand Rapids, 
come and see me. You will always 
be welcome. If we never meet again, 
remember that you have my best 
wishes, and I hope the future will be 
good to you. Good-bye.
We are very sorry to liavo Dad 
leave for he has always been consid
ered as the embodiment of a tradi
tion and has been a guest of honor 
upon innumerable occasions. Should 
anyone who failed to greet Dad, wish 
to drop him a line, he may bo reached 
at 24 OJenwood avonuo, Grand Itaplds, 
Michigan.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.Auf hammer & EvansLadies and Gentlemens Apparel Cleaned, Pressed 
and Mended.
Slioe Shining and Laundry Service.
Work called for and delivered.
THE STUDENT VALET SHOPPE
Student Management.
107 WELCH HALL C. I. T. Phone Schenley 9468
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.......................$300,000.00
Surplus......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
The Gathering 
of the Clan
is a time honored custom at Carnegie which 
reflects the wonderful spirit of good; fellow
ship which makes Carnegie the school it is. 
No better place could be selected than
The Music Box
located at 5921 Penn Avenue, East Liberty. 
Good fellowship always prevails at
The Music Box
We open at 2:00 P. M. and serve dinner 
from 5:30 to 8:00 P. M. From 9:00 P. M. on 
you will find we run tho most up-to-date 
cabaret in town. 'Dinner served on Sunday 
id the regular dinner hour. No cover charge 
until after 9:00 P. M. Music with dinner 
every evening.
BAND LEADER MARRIED
ON THANKSGIVING DAY
(Continued From Pago One.) 
known on the campus, should go a 
good deal of the credit for tho devel
opment of the band and their being 
equipped in kills. Besides having 
been leader of our band for tea 
years, he is head Instructor In music 
at Indiana Slate Normal and is also 
connected with the DeWitt Music 
Store of Pittsburgh
What a difference 
just a few cents make !FATIMA

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1923
---------
J0ALUMNI PAGE! : ! 
! 0 1i i ? i 1
CLAN NEWS
BOSTON CLAN
A moating of tho Boston Clan. wait 
hold Saturday evening, November 17. 
Tlio program for tlio evening conslslod of general discussions and muJsical elections rendered by various 
members of tlio Clan. Tlio meeting 
was bold ut tbo homo of John 
Maxwell, secretary, and tlio following 
wore prosont: 10. 13. Stockshw,
Robert JO. Alien, It. U Stolnbo;.*gor 
and Mr. Bonson H. I-Iarvey, a gradtta to of Pitt, Tbo time and pluieo of 
the next mooting ban not yot boon 
docidul, but will ho announced later 
:ln tills column.
Grad to Build Hospital 
In Abyssinian Capital
Wm. Douglas, Industries 23, 
Receives Contract
William Dougin, Colleges nt IndusIrloH, '23, an honor student, lias boon 
given tbo task of constructing a hos
pital In Adln Abeda, Abyssinia. Tills 
task Ih one of great merit, for at pres
ent there 1b no construction concern 
in tbe whole of that country. The 
work Is being done entirely by Doug
las, and tbo building was designed by 
J. L. Beatty of Pittsburgh.
Tbe Board of Foreign Missions of 
tho United Presbyterian Church has 
fostered the work, and they cliose 
Douglas to carry out tlielr plans. It 
will bo qulto a feather In bis cap, and 
it, will also reflect on 'Carnegie, for 
tbe building will bo constructed on 
tbe most modern linos, and equipped 
witb tho newest conveniences.
Owing to tlio lack of contractors In 
Aibysslnla, Douglass will liavo to do 
all of tbe work himselfa task for 
which bo was well fitted during Ills 
four years here. Ho won tho scholar* 
ship given by tbo Pittsburgh Builders' 
Association during Ills Junior year, 
and then, when tlio award was made 
for Seniors, bo won It again. Since 
bis graduation, Douglas lias spent 
some time In bis home In Topolca, 
Kansas, and visited Carnegie Toch 
last wook, prior to taking up lila du
ties in I,bo.foreign Hold.
CUP DONATED FOR
BEAUTY CONTEST
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
greatest numibor of times out of tho 
throe possible olmncep will bo tlio 
winners, ranking by tbo number of 
times c.bosen. This will give a pos
itively fair Judgment, for tbo Judges 
will work Independently, and cannot 1n.(luonoo one another, and the oilIi.or will merely record tbe choices,
II Is not too laid for anyone to 
have pictures talton, i ml arrangeinenl'i nrayi ibo made by seeing Jidlth 
ShuM.ls, in tbo College of Fine Arts, 
iiuy time up until Christmas, but the 
Hoouor tho pictures are all In, the 
more promptly tbe (lonlestiuNts will be 
judged, and tho winners announced..
NEW YORK CLAN WILL
AT YOUNGS WED.HAVE YOU NOTED
'7
Tho mooting which Is scheduled to 
take place at Yoong's Restaurant In j 
Now York, Broadway and 48th street, 
promises to be a big success.
Tho management of the restaurant 
has promised a real feed and many 
prospective members of tbo New York, 
Clan aro expected, as well its a full 
turnout of all tbo old members.
The last mooting was not so well 
attended becauso the publicity bad 
not boon complete. Inclement weath
er was another factor that contrib
uted to tbo poor attendance.
Anyone who sees tills notice Is re
quested to help In the campaign to 
niako this a real meeting. There's a 
good dancing floor, good music, and 
good food,
Your undergraduate days will come 
back to you as you sit around the tablo with tho rest of tbo Carnegltes. 
You cannot afford to miss It.
Remember Wednesday, December 
fifth, at 0:30 p. rn.
MANY ENTHRALLED
BY DR. BOHRS TALKS
(Conilinued From Pago One.) 
benefit of those In doubt wo may state 
that a cubic Inch bolds over sixteen 
cubic centimeters.
The research of Dr. Bohr has led 
us very far along the road to know 
tho ultimate constitution of matter, 
and tho world Is very much indebted 
to him. Tbe engineering application 
of tills knowledge is only a question 
of time, and then we shall have many 
things of which we can now only 
dream.
NEW GYM WILL BE IN
USE BY NEXT FEBRUARY
(Continued From Page One.) 
be completed. Tbe basket ball game 
with Pitt on February 5 will be the 
first Intercollegiate contest to be held 
In tho now structure and should pro
duce a capacity crowd. The women's 
gymnasium will bo readyi for use 
some time In the spring.
Hi is doubtful whether tho natato 
rlum will bo completed much before 
the closing of school. Tlio entire 
pool will be lined with white tile, 
and many modern conveniences will 
bo Installed.!
BLAZE THREATENS
SCIENCE BUILDING
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
tan Immediately after tho blaze, Fire 
Chief Biller stated that tbo division 
was oxtromoly fortunato In having tho 
entire lire dopartmont on hand at tho 
timo, as If either Hoseman Inman or 
blmsolf bad boon absent, tbo fire ex
tinguisher would have boon useless, 
since It requires two men to operate 
it.
Ilo furthor stated that the primo 
need of tho lire lighters was for one 
man bicarbonato extinguishers to 
take tho place of tho calcium chloride 
ones now used, Hupt, of Buildings 
pinnae noto.
ADVERTI8G AND GET RESULTS
Try us, follows 
FOE YOUR CHRISTMAS SHOPPING
A little lower in price- A little higher in quality 
Than anywhere else,
CONNORS & JACOBS
Outfitters for Men 
3709 FORBES STREET OAKLAND \\
THE DAYLIGHT STORE
limmmmmmmmmmttmtmittmttmmtmmmttmmmmmmtwtmmtmtmm
"Qollege zJiiCen
V
rU
y/
ijM 
...
are the best dressed men in America, says 
a fashion writer. And there is no mysticism 
as to how this is accomplished.
For more than 35 years, through the ever 
changing vagaries of style, college men have 
worn a type of suit expressive of conservative 
good taste.
While clothes makdrs fluttered from style to 
style, these men clung faithfully to their ideal, 
at times going far to procure it.
But todayy in Famous DUN SI 11UF, C/at/jintj this 
identical stylo iti being olierod to you hero in your 
own oollcgc hop. Youll raoognuc instantly 
those artful touche which have lifted these units 
from the realms of the commonplace to the circle 
of tbo "accepted".
Sole Distributor in Pittsburgh nnd Vicinity.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
SMITHFIELD STREET AND SEVENTH AVENUE
Tbo j Carnogle Guild will bold its an
nual carnival on Saturday.
Dykeman will probably run In- tbo 
Olympic moot.
Sully, tbe band leader/was married 
on Thanksgiving Day.
Tho Varsity Clan will bold Its ban
quet on Saturday at tbe William 
Penn,
Dad Why to loft school last week.
Tho now gym will probably be 
ready for use in February.
Doan Brown donated a cup for the 
Beauty contest.
Room 201) was overcrowded for the 
Bohr lectures.
The Musical Clubs will take an ex
tended trip during Christmas vaca
tion.
There ,1s a new orchestra on tho 
campus.
Ross Hertz is Coming 
Here in Leading Role
Will Appear in Pittsburgh in 
"Barney Google
Iloss Hertz will appear In Pitts
burgh sometime In January or Febru
ary as tho leading man in a Raymond 
Hitchcock production called Barney 
Google.
Everyone who was in school last 
year will remember Hertz as the head 
cheerleader if not for the stunts 
which he and Oble Newman put on 
at General Assemblies.
Ross Hertz left the College of Fine 
Arts last January to go to New York 
because ho expected an opportunity 
to join a company there. The next 
thing that we hoard about him was 
that he.,had a minor part in tbe Bar
ney Google" company that was tour
ing southern cltleft. Suddenlywo 
know now howan opportunity came 
and he waB given the leading part in 
this company. ,
If he comes to Pittsburgh, as he is 
oxpected, it will surely be a rare treat 
to see one of our own Garnegio men, 
so shortly after leaving Carnegie, as 
tho leading man in a Raymond Hitch
cock production.
MOST SUCCESSFUL VARSITY
FOOTBALL SEASON CLOSED
WM. PENN PLACES 
-WEIGHTS ON ROOF
Alumni and Students Honor 
Athletes and Coaches 
There Saturday
(Continued From Pago Three, i 
ponont, Jimmy suddenly reversed the 
Hold and dnshod around loft end, sans 
lntorforoucQ and sans tacklers, for 
the touchdown that made history at 
Carnegie Tech.
A wook before tho Pitt game, tho 
Tartans made their annual trip to Lit
tle Washington and again played befor a capacity crowd thero. Tho Skibos wore first to score. Tills thoy did 
In tho llrst quarter after displaying a 
whirlwind offensive that could not bo 
stopped, Wnnh-.lolT came back In tho 
second period and scored a field goal. 
Bator they wore hold for downs on 
tho Plaid thirty-yard line, and atVniptod another Hold goal. This at
tempt was blocked, but unfortunately 
for Carnogle, W. & J. roeovorod tbo 
ball on tlio llftoon-ynrd lino, from 
where they ultimately carried it over 
for tho winning score. 'Phis break 
'i* tho homo team tho gnmo, for 
there was no more scoring after that,
The battle against tho "Fighting 
rlsh" of South Bond on Novombor 2*1 
marked the final appearance of flvo of 
the greatest players who over fought 
under Ilald colors. Captain Jimmy 
Robertson, who ranks with the host 
quarterbacks In the country this year, 
played perhaps tho finest game of his 
career on that day, bis dazzling runs 
sending thrill after thrill through tbo 
30,000 spectators who braved the ele
ments to see this contest; Jim Ander
son, captain of tbe team last season, 
and ono of tho mainstays of tbe team; 
Brumbaugh, flashy fullback who has 
caused consternation among oppon
ents this year; Comfort and Zelt, 
giant linesmen who have held their 
own with the best in the past three 
or four years, will all be lost to the 
team by graduation.
Those men played exceptionally1 
well against Notre Dame, and the 
fact that the visitors scored 20 points 
does not mean a thing. Two of their 
four touchdowns followed upon 
breaks for them, while the Tartans 
were prevented from scoring by a 
fumble within the shadows of the 
Irish goal posts. This was the only 
contest in which Carnegie did not 
score this year, and they really should 
have scored in this one.
With the loss of such sterling men. 
it. is natural to arrive at the conclu
sion that the Skibos will not be near
ly so strong next year as this season, 
but it must be borne in mind that the 
outlook at the beginning of this year 
was no brighter than it is now for 
next year. It is our guess that when 
next fall rolls around Coach Steffen 
and his assistants, Conches Marks 
and Irwin, will place anothor win
ning team on the field.
The summary of t.ho gamos played 
this year follow:
Carnegie..32TJ. of Toledo................12
Carnogle. .28-Thiol ............................. 0
Carnogle.. 1.3 John Carroll U......... 0
Carnogle.. 7Wash-JofC.......................9
Carnogle.. 7U. of Pitt....................... 2
Carnegie., CLoliigh ......................13
Carnegie.. (1Detroit ......................... fl
Carnegie.. 0Notro Dame ..............2fl
On Saturday at one o'clock, the 
Pittsburgh and Varsity Clans, witb 
the help of representatives from 
every other Carnegie tribe, will ex
tend the hand of good fellowship 
and viands of good cheer to tho 
coaches andi players of this year's 
teams. The William Penn ball room 
is to be the place of meeting and 
eating.
Tho coaches, the varsity squad, the 
cross-country team, and the Fresh
man football toam will occupy tbe 
seats ,of honor. There will also be 
present representatives of the Car
negie Corporation, the Trustees of 
C. J. T and other persons of im
portance.
Altogether, one thousand guests are 
expected, it is reported that the 
hotel manager already bus men at 
work putting weights on the roof, 
but, as the Red Cross captains re
cently held a dinner there with no 
damage incurred, the rumor is re
garded as false. However; the live 
hundred tickets allowed the students 
are going rapidly, and when iiye hun
dred students and five hundred, grads 
get together, tbe future is uncertain.
Tbe managers of the affair are try
ing to make it clear that the speech
es of the occasion will bo as easy to 
ta-ke as .the lunch. Wally Steffens 
forensic voice will be diverted from 
legal matters to things of greater im
portance. Iiis talk should be pleas
ant to hear.
During tbe lunch itself no one 
will be allowed to pass into a 'state 
of coma. Some kind of disturbance 
in the nature of music and entertain
ment is to be- raised. No definite 
announcement lias been mad e-pit 
may be the Kilties and then dranintB.
In tbo midst of the jubilation noxt 
year's football captain will be elect
ed. Those present will liavO an op
portunity to meet the honored man 
and hear him say that he is not 
prepared to make any speech.
On Saturday night tbe i M. M. 
Guilld will be putting on its annual 
iChrlstmas Carnival. The carnival 
this 'year is to be a sort of mixture 
ol B. F. Keiths and the Palais Roy
al. It will cover almost every tiling 
on the campus oxcept the cut. Alumni 
in Pittsburgh on that evening will 
do well to make an investigation.
DO YOU REMEMBER
GUILD CARNIVAL
IN UNION AND LAB.
NIGHT OF DEC. 8
(Continued From Page One.) 
saio ail this weolc for 75 cents 
apiece. Hang up your Christmas 
stocking and come along to the 
party.
Tho patrons and patronesses for 
the affair will include mil beads of 
departments,, and aro as follows:
College of EngineeringDean and 
Mrs. Mott, Dr. and Mrs. J. H. James, 
Professor and Mrs. F. M. M.cCollough, Dr. and Mrs. W. I1'. Rittman, 
Professor and Mrs. C. W. Sproull, 
Professor and Mrs. Willibald Trinks, 
Professor and Mrs. W. R. Work, Pro
fessor and Mrs. N. C. Riggs, Profess 
sor and Mrs. Froflj Crabtree, Profes
sor and Mrs. 11. S. Hower.
College of IndustriesDirector and 
Mrs. John T. Morris, Professor and 
Mrs. C. G. Dunneis, Professor and 
Mrs. Robert B. Lelghou, Professor 
and Mrs. C. C. Leeds, Prof. and 
Mrs. John . T. Hoyle.
College of Fine ArtsProfessor 
and). Mrs. Ellis, Professor and Mrs. 
Sternfeld, Professor and Mrs. T. W. 
Stevens, Professor J. Vick OBrien, 
Professor Charles N. Taiylor, Profes
sor and Mrs. Berthold Nebel.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
legeMiss Mary B. Breed, Miss Jane 
Fales, Miss Harriet F. Gleudon, Pro
fessor and Mrs. Charles Watkins, 
Professor and Mrs. Ernest V. Page, 
Miss Genevieve Fisher.
Division of General Studies 
Colonel and Mrs. Frank P. Day, Miss 
Elizabeth B. Demarest, Professor and 
Mrs. Malcolm McLeod, Professor and 
Mrs. John L. Keir, S. S. Keller, Pro
fessor and Mrs. Frederick P. Collette, 
Professor and Mrs. Edmond Esquerre.
Division of Co-operative Research 
Director and Mrs. W. V. Bingham, 
Professor and Mrs. Clarence S. Yoak
um, Dr. and Mrs. W. W. Charters, 
Professor and! Mrs. A. J. Wurts, Mr. 
and Mrs. E. K. Strong, Jr., Prof. and 
Mrs. Charles J. Rockwell, Director 
and Mrs. R. M. Ihrig.
Hostesses include Jane Markell 
and Esther Johnston at Kriskingles 
Shnntji; Isabel Sowash. Mary Steumphlo and Mary Speers at Jingle Bell 
Inn.
996S
HAVE U HEARQ THE
DIZZY 8IF YOU AINT
ITS NOT TOO LATE
(Continued From Pago One) 
the same, whenever there is a crying 
need for some peppy music which no 
one else can be induced to furnish, 
the Eight appear, to the great de
light of everyone.
Seriously though, keep jour eye
Way back in 1916, when Walter Col
lins, the Plebe class president was. 
kidnapped in broad daylight in tbe 
center, of the campus and the pres
ence of about a dozen Plebes. A taxi 
carried the prisoner away, and tbe 
Plebes gave chase. The pursuers lost 
the trail -around Clairton, and sadly 
wended tlieir way homeward to pre
pare for the banquet without tbe pres
ident.
Tbe Sophs must have fallen asleep 
however, for just before the banquet 
ended, Collins appeared, and received 
a tremendous ovation.
About this time too, it was that 
the Marion Morgan esthetic dancers 
appeared on the lawn in front of M. 
M., much to the delight of the engi
neers.
Carnegie Graduates 
Again Prove Merit
Dr. L. L. Thurstone, who was for
merly Professor of Psychology here 
at Carnegie, sefads us Llie following 
letter:
You will be interested to know 
about the November issue cf the An
nals of the American Academy of Po
litical andl Social Science.,. This is
sue is devoted to psychology in busi
ness. There are articles in this 
volume written by twenty-four differ
ent authors.
It will interest you to know' that 
ten of these authors have been iu 
Professor Binghams division at Car
negie, either as instructors, or as 
graduate students. When you con
sider that neither of the two editors 
of the volume have ever been asso
ciated with Carnegie, you will read
ily see that it is a. fine compliment 
to 'Carnegie Tech, that nearly half of 
the authors have been connected! witb 
tbo institute.
An investigation brought out Dr. 
Thurstones statement. The authors' 
in question are: Dr. Bingham.
Yoakum, Thurstone, Robinson, Stev
enson, Bills and Messrs. Kornhauser, 
Chapman, Hansen and Miner.
Dr. Tbuirstone will be remembered 
as one of the most popular men on 
tbe campus, owing to liis large spread 
of interests. During the war be 
helped in standardizing trade tests 
for use in ineasuringi tbe skill of re
cruits in certain trades. In January 
of this year be resigned hero to ac
cept a position with the Institute for 
Government Research, Bureaui of Per
sonnel Administration.
Itl is gratifying to see, how one of 
our former faculty members boost.} 
our, school. Take note, Alumni!
PRELIMINARY TICKETS
FOR PROM BEING SOLD
(Continued From Page One.) 
will be sold for $1..50. The sale will 
probably close about December 19, so 
get yours before it is too late.
Another contest Is being held by 
the committee to got the best posters 
obtainable.' This contest is open to 
all comers. Tbe poster class in the 
Arts School is being given this, as 
a special phoblem, but that does not 
prohibit others from participating in 
tbo contest. The prizes to be award
ed will bo: First price, five dollars; 
second prize, three dollars; third 
prlze, two dollars; fourth, prize, one 
dollar.
The posters must bo artistic and 
relative to tho Prom, besides being 
informative. The committee will 
gladly give further information on 
the subject, if a note addressed to the 
Junior Prom Editor is dropped in the 
Tartan box; Room 5-A, Industries 
Building.
The work is rapidly progressing 
and the committee expects to accom
plish a great deal over the Thanks
giving and Christmas vacations.
ANNE WEBER APPOINTED TO 
SMITH COLLEGE FELLOWSHIP
Anne K. Weber of the Margaret 
Morrison 'Class of 1923, was appoint
ed to a fellowship at Smith College 
this fall. Only six girls in the 
United States were appointed to fel
lowships at Smith College this year 
andi Anne Weber was the only one 
from Pittsburgh,
ALUMNI CLANS HONOR
VARSITY THIS SATURDAY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
After the food will como a few 
spooclUQs. carefully advertised as 
tdiort.. Wally Stoffen will do most of 
tho talking. I-Iis Honor, tho Judge, 
never has difficulty in holding his 
hearers attention.
Tho Alumni Office announcos that 
thero are still many tickets availa
ble, .but' that tomorrow is the last 
day thoy will be on sale. If you 
want anything 'better than standing 
room in the second tier, act prompt
ly.
this little organization. The music 
is really good, especially some of it 
The title should please the most fastidous.
As good inside as it looks 
outside: Moor calf the 
latest creation, of the famus 
Glasgow tannery of W & 
J Martin matcht by soles, 
linings, heels and work
manship that nr not to be 
betterd anywhere at any 
price.
Sturdy, substantial, stylish 
 hevy enuf for winter 
wear  yet neither clumsy 
nor uncouth 
FRATERNITIES 
DECEMBER 17
f.TokvWMil
mei^iSvoes
Siores in NcwYbrkSty c>Ulyn,Ncwark Phila.^w Addrc&s lor M.'il Order* slvDuana street-ICsv,-York City
Choice of a Career
From the Yaie News
THE NINETY-FOUR 
Someone, probably an insurance 
agent, was quoted recently as saying 
that from the mass of one hundred 
college graduates one individual only 
rose to the Polo and butler class, peril
ously near the top of the financial lad
der. Five others became comfortably 
off and found themselves after twenty 
years at the small yacht and chauffeur 
stage. The other ninety-four presum
ably congregate in the great section of 
the American people who drive their 
own Buicks to the golf club. In other 
words, dreaming about being a rich 
man is one thing, and making the grade 
is something else again.
Yet the ninety-four presumably work 
just as hard as the sumptuous six. Their 
business is the axis on which a small 
and uninteresting world revolves. They 
have become devotees of the dollar 
and when that fickle deity deserts, have 
nowhere else to turn. Jammed in a 
dull, straight rut of business they can 
never leave the road and jump the fcnce 
into finer fields of life. This, then, is 
the portion of ninety-four men out of 
every hundred now on the campus.
The answer to the problem lies in 
:.a proper choice of a career.
Between now and Commencement we shall have something to offer on the subject of Careers. Watch for the space with the Famous Signature.
G-ST .UFLHYU,T PCBDYUM4
CS 9CF3CUN IYFFY,hLFT33F 
Sixty-one years in business. Now insuring One Billion Seven Hundred 
Million dollars in policies on 3,250,000 lives.
I
1
I
I
s
s
1
&
I
g
g
s
1
I
ONLY those who have 
smoked Melachrinos 
can judge the quality 
of the finest Turkish 
tobacco.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over*
Taking the kick
out of a beard
A FTER shaving, does your face -ti. stingfeel raw ? Dont blame 
it on your razor. The fault lies elsewhere.
Unless your beard is properly massaged by a supple, pliable 
shaving brush with just the correct degree of stiffness, tha 
keenest razor blade grows dull and pulls.
3 shaving brush 
comforts
Youwillfinda RubbersetBrush 
has 3 important comforts.
Your beard, however tough, 
softens easily, as Rubbersets fine, full bristles whip up a quick, gen
erous lather . . . one that goes to the roots of each hair, holds it 
firmly erect, easy to cut.
Rubbing in the lather with your 
fingers becomes unnecessary. Rubberset bristles are gripped everlastingly in hard rubber. 
They cant come out and mix with the lather.
Each Rubberset Brush is guar
anteedunconditionally. The 
brJ sties stay in. It makes good or 
wedo. Getyourstoday atanystore 
on thecampus. Made by Rubberset Company, Newark, N. J., U. S. A.
BHARTSOCBBERSETTRAOB MARKthe nv o rl d'sSHAVING
s t a n dard
BRUSH
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
