THISTLE CAMPAIGN 
UNDER WAY 
CO-OPERATE AND 
SUBSCRIBE NOWarttigte ITartati
FOOTBALL 
CARNEGIE VERSUS 
GENEVA 
SATURDAY, 3:00 P. M.
VOL. XVII. NO. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE-OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4 1922
REGISTRATION 
COMPLETED IN 
NIGHT SCHOOL
Part-Time Courses For 
Teachers and High Schooj 
Students Begun; Classes on 
Saturday Mornings
ENROLLMENT NORMAL
Registration for the night school 
at Carnegie Tech was held on the 
evenings of September 27, 2S and 29. 
The number of students enrolling in 
the night classes was approximately 
the same as for 1921-22, when the 
night school had a total registration 
of 1205, which was distributed as fol
lows: College of Engineering, 288;
College of Fine Arts, 243; College of 
Industries, G74. There is, in addition 
to this number, an enrollment in the 
night school for the part-time Satur
day morning classes. The school year 
for the night students is divided into 
two termsOct. 2 to Jan. 19; Jan. 22 
to April 27.
The Administration officers have 
been conducting a series of talks by 
radio upon the opportunities which 
the night school offers to ambitious 
men and women for self-advancement. 
These talks, which ran from Sept. 25 
to Sept. 30, were broadcasted by radio 
and included the following: An intro
ductory address by Dr. Baker, Acting 
President, on, Evening ClassesThe 
Workers Opportunity; a talk by Di
rector Morris of the College of Indus
tries bn Training for Men in the In
dustries in Evening Classes; a talk 
by Director Bossange of the College 
of Fine' Arts on Evening Courses in 
Fine Arts; and a concluding address 
by Director Mott of the College of 
Engineering on "Training for Engi
neers in the Evening Classes.
The Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy conducts a night school in the 
various colleges primarily for those 
men and women who are at work dur
ing the day and who are consequently 
unable to avail themselyes of the reg
ular day courses. In order to make 
the night school as useful as possible, 
classes will be organized to study sub
jects not previously announced in pub
lications, provided there is sufficient 
demand] Diplomas or certificates tiro 
awarded to all who successfully com
plete a given course of study.
An innovation in the night school 
program'this year is the introduction 
(Continued on Page Three.)
ELEVEN FRESHMEN TO
GET EXEMPTION CARDS
The following named men who have 
applied for exemption from Plebe Reg
ulations have been exempted by the 
Science Senate and should obtain 
their exemption cards today at As
sembly:
Harry E. Dietrich, 'Saul Heller, Wal
ter F. Senkins, David J. Miller, Geo. 
S. Baldwin. Vincent B. Smith, More
land Hartwell, A. V. Saurman, Frank 
S. Turner. Jr., Frank A. Turner, 
Frank B. Zink.
HOW CARNEGIE OUTPLAYED THE BULLDOGS
SOPH T-DANCE
The first Sophomore tea-dance of 
the year drew a gay crowd of Plebes 
and Sophs up the stairs to the Union 
in the Central building last Friday af
ternoon. From 4:30 until 6:00, danc
ing was in order.
This is the first of a series of dances 
given by the College of Fine Arts 
throughout the year, to promote the 
get-together idea. All the schools were 
represented, the Freshmen being esj 
pecially invited. Music was furnished 
by the Bachelor Orchestra. These 
dances will be managed generally as 
they were last year.
ALUMNI GATHERING 
LARGEST IN N. E.
Gathering After Yale Game 
Full of Pep; Steffen and 
Team Members Speak
Kilts Suggested For 
Entire Carnegie Band
Scotch Uniform Would be 
Distinctive of School
Did you notice the editorial in the 
Carnegie Tartan last week about the 
band and kilts? What do you think 
about it? Dont you believe that a 
Carnegie Tech Band uniformed in kil
ties marching down' Fifth avenue 
would take the town by storm? And 
when the band would go to State and 
other places that they go wouldnt it 
create quite a disturbance? And 
wouldn't that disturbance be quite 
favorable to Cainegie Tech?
This year and at this time the band 
is the best it ever has been. But is 
it going to be like other years with in
terest waning even before football sea
son is over and by the time school is 
drawing to a close in the spring the 
number dwindled down co about twen
ty men that come out regularly. Last 
year there were some that played in 
the baud so that tney would have ac
tivities enough to be initiated into a 
fraternity and as soon as they were 
initiated they dropped from the band. 
There is ho reason to believe that 
this year will be any different from 
the preceding years. The start is al
ways good and the ending bad. Why 
is this? There must be some reason 
because it dont occur in the other 
musical organizations about the Cam
pus.
Well for one thing, the student body 
does not take enough interest in the 
band. They like to see them come out 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The Carnegie Tech Alumni gather
ing in New Haven last Saturday night 
after the Carnegie Tech-Yale football 
game can well be characterized as the 
biggest yet in the New England states. 
The crowd was by far much larger 
than the committee had anticipated, 
close to one hundred and twenty-five 
Alumni, members of the football team, 
and students, being crowded together 
in the Hotel Garde banquet room, 
whereas only about seventy-five were 
prepared for. Naturally, under such 
a pleasant surprise some confusion in 
service was had, but taking all in all, 
the little cpnfusion was far over-balanced by the wonderful spirit, enthu
siasm, and jollity of the crowd. The 
conVmittee, R. W. Arnold, 21, Ray 
Woolson, 20, G. R. Holmes, '17, and 
Ed Kelly, 15, are to be congratulated 
for the hard work they put in in mak
ing this gathering,, so- far from the 
Central Building, a success. Just to 
show how successful it was, the cheer
ing and singing attracted three re
porters of New Haven newspapers 
who wanted to know all we could tell 
about Carnegie Tech.
The speakers of the afternoon were 
Wally Steffen, > Frank Haaren, 
Jimmy Anderson, Al Irwin, Red 
Godden, Jimmy Robertson, Al 
Wiorman, and Brummy Brumbaugh. 
More would have been called upon, 
much to the delight of the Techites 
(Continued on Page Three.)
AL IRWIN ELECTED PRES. 
OF INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
WEI RM AN COMING AROUND RIGHT END
GEN. ASSEMBLY 
TO BE RALLY 
FOR W.&J. GAME
Student Council Election of 
Officers Completes Organi
zationAmes, Zelt, Patter
son Elected
STEFFEN WILL TALK
Radio Club Holds Meeting
Last Wednesday at 7:30 P. M. in 
Room 104 Machinery Hall, th Radio 
Club held a preliminary meeting to 
get a general idea of the condition 
of its affairs and to consider the pros
pects for the coming season. The 
meeting was hampered by the absence 
of the treasurer, who has left school 
together with the pins, membership 
cards, clubroom keys and financial ac
counts.
President Maust presided, outlining 
the work for the coming year and lay
ing particular stress on the installa
tion of a C. W. transmitter in the club
room of Henderson Hall. Captain 
Walker spoke briefly upon co-operation of the members and the neces
sity of everyone ' working to advance 
the club.
A regular meeting will be held to
night at 7:30 in 104 Machinery Hall 
for the purpose of electing new offi
cers and starting actual work. All old 
members are urged to be present and 
new members are cordially invited.
The Tartan entertainers made their 
reappearance at the Industries Assem
bly last Wednesday with a reorgan
ized orchestra of six pieces.
Bob Waddell was the first speaker. 
He gave a first hand report of his 
scouting trip to the Yale-Bates football game and gave us some dope on 
what we could expect'our team to do.
Dean Morris introduced Acting 
President Baker, who gave a fine talk 
on our responsibility as students. Act
ing President Baker is very much in
terested in the Industries College, but 
he pointed out that all of our splen
did equipment and buildings are use
less unless the men turned out proved 
to be of the right caliber. .He praised 
the initiative shown by Carnegie Tech 
men, but showed that initiative counts 
for little unless the scholastic stand
ards are kept up. He further pointed 
out that the present day world is look
ing to the college man for a. solution 
of its problems and suggested that 
plenty of outside reading is essential 
to one who wishes to enter into ac
tive life. Dr. Baker is a good mixer 
and he expressed the desire of becom
ing personally acquainted with all the 
Carnegie Tech students.
Following the regular announce
ments and a cheering practice led by 
the new cheer leader, Olsen, the As(Continued on Page Four.)
The Student Council at Its meeting 
last week completed its organization 
for the year. The following officers 
were elected: Vice President, J. T.
Ames; Secretary and Treasurer, A. R. 
Zelt; Recorder, Miss Dorothy Grant. 
Miss Grace Patterson of Margaret 
Morrison College, was chosen to act 
as Assistant 'Secretary. Al Invin took 
his seat on the Council as President 
of Industries Assembly.
Plans for General Assembly to be 
held next Wednesday were discussed. 
It is to be in the nature of a rally 
for the W. & J. game on the following 
Saturday. Coach Steffen will give one 
of his characteristic pep speeches. 
Newman, Hertz and Snyder will be 
there with a new stunt. Songs and 
other entertainment .are also being ar
ranged'.
J. N. Franklin was appointed to act 
as student representative in arranging 
for special trains to the W. & J. and 
Penn State games. He will have charge 
of the publicity for the trips and also 
of all arrangements.
The election of officers held by the 
Industries Freshmen last week was 
declared void because it was not held 
in accordance with the voting regula
tions adopted last year. Voting was 
conducted immediately after the nom
inations were made, instead of waiting 
a week as prescribed by the regula
tions.
Chairman Zelt reported that the 
coaching plan was already working.
All organizations wishing to hold 
a dance on the campus must first ob
tain the sanction of the Deans of Men 
(Continued on Page Four.)
OFFICE HOURS OF MATRON 
OF MENS DORMS, MONDAY 
AND WEDNESDAY, FROM 7-8
Mrs. N. B. Johnson, matron of the 
Mens Dormitories will be in her office 
201 iScobel Hall, every Monday and 
Wednesday evening from 7-S.
H K. KIRK-PATR1CK.
MARY L. BROWN 
REPLACES DEAN 
LAURA SCALES
SCIENCE SENIORS LIKE
IDEA OF SENIOR FENCE
The Science Seniors held a class 
meeting on last Wednesday noon. Sev
eral topics were discussed but only 
two were acted on. The dues were 
set as twenty-five cents per month. 
The idea of a Senior Fence was passed 
favorably and the Science iSeniors will 
co-operate with tho other Seniors in 
trying to have such a fence.
New Dean is Graduate of 
Missouri University; is Po
pular With the Student 
Body
FROM OHIO STATE
T DELEGATES TO GO 
TO ATLANTIC CITY
Appointments Announced For 
Many Committees of 
Coming Year
Dean Laura M. Scales place has 
been filled by Miss Mary L. Brown, a 
graduate of Smith College. Miss 
Brown'thought all can bo summarized 
into one statement: I was born p.
Virginian, reared a Missourian with 
University life for a background as 
my father was a professor. I received 
my degree from Smith College and 
Look post-graduate work at Missouri 
University during which time I reiceiVod an M. A. Following my days 
at Missouri 'University, I wont to Ohio 
State as assistant to tho Dean of
THISTLE BOARD BEGINS 
FIRST SELLING CAMPAICN
The opening gun of the Thistle cam
paign was fired yesterday. Every stu
dent of Carnegie Tech wants the one 
record of his schools activities both 
in athletics and on the campus. The 
year book promises to be the best 
ever. The board has contracted for a 
larger book and in addition has de
cided to bind the book in genuine 
leather. It will be done at no In
crease in cost to the student body 
the same price prevailing as for last 
years book. The greater the sales 
the larger will be the book.
This is the only sales campaign in 
which the name of the subscriber will 
be placed upon the book for $4.50. 
Everyone was delighted with that fea
ture last year.
Over forty per cent of the Plebe 
class in Industries and Science have 
already subscribed. The upper classes 
should subscribe 100 per cent to the 
1923 year book.
ELY AT A. S. M. E. CONVENTION
Sumner B. Ely, assistant professor 
of Chemical Engineering at Carnegie 
Tech, lias returned from New Haven, 
where he attended the meeting of the 
New Haven branch of the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers. The 
meeting was held at the Mason Lab
oratory of the Sheffield Sclentic 
School of Yale University.
Five thousand people attended the 
meeting, which lasted three days. Mr. 
Ely says that he witnessed many un
usual mechanical exhibitions and that 
one hundred and tliirty-five different 
machine tool companies had installed 
machines for exhibition purposes.
S. I. E. to Hold Meeting 
in 104 Ind. on Thursday
The first meeting of the Society of 
Industrial Engineers will be held in 
Room 104, Industries, Thursday, Octo
ber 5th at 3:30 P. M.
This meeting of the S. I. E. is of 
great importance to every member as 
at this time the Constitution will be 
read, approved and passed upon. 
Plans will be made for th coming 
year in the way of speakers and activ
ities.
The S. I. E. last spring approved 
the organization of student chapters 
in certain technical schools. Three 
charters were granted at the time, 
one at Penn State, another at Mass. 
Institute of Technology, and the third 
was placed at the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. Several petitions have 
been placed before the society by 
other schools.
Membership into the S. I. E. is lim
ited to the upper classes, among the 
student body having the courses that 
are approved by the society, and have 
sufficient high scholarship. Student 
membership has the advantages of al
lowing a student upon graduation to 
become a junior member in the organ
ization within a certain time limit and 
at reduced costs. After a certain 
length of time they are granted full 
membership in the society as a Senior 
member, if the student is following 
the work of Industrial Engineering. 
Membership entitles the student to 
the bulletins of the society and ad
mission to the lectures of the Senior 
members.
Two delegates from the Y. M. C. A. 
cabinet or tho Carnegie Instituto of 
Technology will attend tho Forty-first 
International Convention of the Y. M. 
C. A. at Atlantic City, November 14-19.
At tho meeting Monday, Mr. Rollins, 
executive secretary of the "Y branch 
here, and 'S. S. Dibblo, treasurer, read 
reports to tho meeting. Outlines of 
various committees for work in the 
coming year was submitted.
The following men and faculty mombera have already been appointed to 
the committee of management: Bible 
studyA. M. Anderson, chairman; 
Prof. Blalsdell, Faculty Advisor. 
Church RelationsGeorge Allison, 
chairman; Prof.. Dennison, Faculty 
Advisor. Foreign Students  Gy" 
Hoennlnger, chairman; Mr. Dibble, 
Faculty Advisor. Studont Conference 
Al Irwin, chairman; Prof. Donnell, 
Faculty Advisor. New Students - E. 
A. Brand, chairman; Acting Dean 
Kirkpatrick, Faculty Advisor. Finan
cialJack Franklin, chairman; Prof. 
Ambrose and Mr. Dibblo, Faculty Ad
visors. Social Actlvltlos  Martin 
Rohrback, chairman; Profs. Ashe, 
Ellis, Kirkpatrick, Faculty Advisors* 
PublicityVic. Stromqulst, chairman; 
Profs. Ellis and Ashe, Faculty Ad
visors.
SCIENCE PLEBES MEET 
TO NOMINATE OFFICERS
The Plebes held their first class 
meeting on Wednesday morning, Sep
tember 27, when all Freshmen of the 
Engineering School assembled In 
Room 219 of the Science building.
Chalrnjan Griggs advised that all 
men wishing to join the R. O. T. C/ 
talk the matter over with Colonel 
Brooks at his office.
For class presidents the following 
men were nominated: E. S. Mills,
Byron Goodwin, John Murray, Paul 
Bowron, Leonard Esch and C. R. Wil
son; for secretary, J. D. Bloom, Rob
ert Relnertz, L; W. Schofer, Charles 
Brown, H. F. Carson, J. Ward and 
Eugene Wilson. A. L. Jackson, J. L. 
Seaman, William R. Bernliardi, H. T. 
Wilson and E. R. Broden were nomi
nated for treasurer.
The list of nominees will be posted 
for a week, and new names may be 
added to this list.
All the men nominated were invited 
to aiteiid a smoker in the Union at 
4:30 p. m. on the following Friday, 
and were requested to have a short 
speech ready.
MISS MARY L. BROWN
Women and part time toachor of so
ciology."
In Dean Brown wo find one who has 
keen sympathy with human nature, 
and will have tho girls of Carnegie 
Tech back of her In every way, ly
ing her all posslblo assistance In her 
supervision over moral, religious, and 
social welfare on tho campus.
3X*an Mary L. Brown has a charm
ing personality and unaffected man
ners. She has the faculty of drawing 
a person out, putting one at ones 
ea?e, infusing enthusiasm for work 
and studies, and inspiring faith in 
ones self.
j Graphica Club Holds Banquet 
To Entertain New Members
Chapel Chimes
The first chapel of the year will be 
held Tuesday, October 10, at tiie 
scheduled time In the Little Theater. 
It is hoped by all that these chapels 
will be supported with the students 
attendance. Dr. Baker will have per
sonal charge of securing speakers for 
these exorcises, and expects to have 
all the best men from the various 
churches of tho city to participate In 
them. i
The speaker of the first meeting will 
be Rev. Maitland Alexander of the 
First Presbyterian church. He is oue 
of the 'most capable speakers in the 
city. It will be profitable for every 
student to make an effort to get there, 
and by so doing greatly aid Dr. Baker 
and also the Y. M. C. A. Lets start 
the year right and support these 
chapel exercises.
A welcome banquet for the new men 
of the Printing Department was held 
by the Graphica in the King Edward 
dining rooms Tuesday, September 26. 
There were fifty printing students, in
structors and guests present, eighteen 
of whom were new men in the depart
ment.
Following the dinner a series of 
talks were given, in which both old 
and new men were heard from. Pres
ident Finlay welcomed the new men 
into the department and wished them 
all success. Professor Hoyle was also 
welcomed back, having returned from 
Toronto, where he has been engaged 
since he left Carnegie last year on a 
leave of absence.
Mr. CJruver, president of the Pitts
burgh Club of Printing House Crafts
men, and Mr. Muma, of tho Ailing & 
Paper Company, addressed the gath
ering. The faculty members of the 
Graphica, MenH.ni, Martin), 'Creech, 
Thacker, Ellis and Sullivan, were also 
speakers. Following these speoches, 
some of tho students, both old and 
new, were called upon to express 
themselves.
The welcome banquet of the Graph
ica has established Itself as an annual 
affair, and was given at an early date 
this year In order that the Plebes 
might have a better chance to meet 
the upperclassmen and get acquainted 
with their Instructors outside of class 
hours.
15,000 FOOTBALL MANIACS 
WITNESS YALE DEFEAT THE 
CARNEGIE GRIDDERS 13-0
Tartans Rush Ball in Scrimmage 157 
Yards to 71 For Yale; Make 9 First 
Downs to 5 For Yale
TARTANS SURPRISE EAST
EDW. P. RIEHL WILL 
DIRECT GLEE CLUB
Reorganized Musical Clubs 
Start Practising For the 
Coming Season
Carnegie Tech lost to Yale 13-0one touchdown and goal, plus 
two field goals from 0I-Ienrns educated drop-kicking toe. Carnegie 
Tech fumbled too muchYale kept her eyes on the ballfollowed 
the ball; just as an eagle follows its prey. Yale was played on equal 
terms during the first half; but, in the second half she was out
played.
it was a repetition of tho old old 
story in football when a great light 
team clashes with a great heavy team. 
The light team may gain with bril 
liaut ond runs, and off-tackle plays iu 
thok middle of the field, but wlion un
der the very shadow of the heavy 
teams goal thoy falter. The punch 
simply cant bo found because then it 
Is that weight counts, for it is in 
weight that the punch lies. When a 
team is prossod against Its own goal 
its light becomes that of a lion at bay. 
End runs will be thrown for losses. 
Line bucks are the plays to use, and 
here it is that weight counts.
And so it was in the Yale Bowl 
of Now Haven that tho heavy "Bull
dog sent tho light Tartan machine 
back to Pittsburgh with a defeat 
charged to their soasons record.
Yale Outplayed 
Carnegie Tech made olght flrsfcdowns to Yales six. Tho Tartans outgained In carrying tho ball, and for
ward passes by tho ratio of almost 
2 to 1. Tho Plaid forward passes woro 
more successful than those of Yale. 
Robertson and Wiorman excelled by 
Far anything that Yale had 'to offer 
In ond runs, Yale's Interference was 
lacking!Tech's was not. Cnrnoalo 
Teoh fumblod. Ynlo DID NOT. Thomlu lies tho story. And no, TH our 
coach says: Wo lost; "wo didnt dosorvo to win, Yalo won; thoy de
served to win,
To Yalo. tnosf) Carnoglo Tech stu 
dents and alumni who saw the game 
give credit Cor having a grout team, 
with a groat puntor, mid drop-lclckor. 
O'lloarn asldo from being the above 
proved to the host ground galnor for 
Old 1011. in tho 'latter, ho was ably 
(Continued on Page Three)
Mr. Edw. P. Riehl, who last Sunday 
assumed tho directorship of tho Gloo 
Club section of the Carnoglo Musical 
Clubs,'has filled tho 'members of that 
organization with onthusiasm and con
fidence in facing tho coming soason.
Carnegie Tech Is most fortunato In 
obtaining a man of such high caliber. 
Ho liasj for ton years boon director of 
tho K. of C. Opera Company of Pitts
burgh, which consist of 27f voleos. Ho 
directed, staged, and sang loading 
parts In many operas, tho Ohocolato 
Soldier, Princess Pat, Milo. Modiste, 
and many minor operas.
Tho Musical Clubs have boon thor
oughly roorganl/.od. Consideratole In
terest has been expressed in the possi
bility of giving a concert at Ccmmoncomont In addition to the regular 
eoncort hold each March at tho Car
noglo Music I-Iall.
Tho Mandolin Section held their j 
socond rohearsal of, the year under 
Signor Scal'/.os direction.
Every man on the campus who can 
either Hlng or play an instrument Is 
urgod to try out for one of the clubs.
Rehearsals aro hold at, 2:110 Sunday 
afternoons--those of tho Glleo Club In 
Exhibition Hall In the College of Fine 
Arts and Mandolin Club In the Car
noglo Union.
ROUSING SEND-OFF GIVEN 
TEAM LEAVING FOR YAi.E
Last Thursday evening I he football 
team was accorded an enthusiastic 
sou doff prior to tliolr leaving for Now 
Haven for tho struggle with Vale, 
Between live and six hundred stu
dents met in front of tho Dormitories 
at 7:15 for their invasion of East Lib
erty.
There had boon some misunder
standing about the tlmo tho train left 
so the crowd assembled much too 
early. The time was spent., however, 
In cheering and dancing on Woodlawn 
avenue, with the aid of the band.
About 8:30 the parade, led by the 
band, started for East Liberty. When 
the main section of East Liborty was 
reached, the parade attracted a large 
amount of attontion, and the streets 
were lined with spectators. When the 
crowd reached tho station, there was 
much cheering and singing while wait
ing for the train.
After much persuasion, Wally Stef
fen was prevailed upon to give a lit
tle speech for the students. Then An
derson spoke for the team. Wally 
made the remark that, as for himself, 
he wasnt going to Yale to be "licked" 
and he was sure the team felt the 
same as he.
iSuch a turnout as last Thursday 
nights can not help but have an en
couraging effect on the team. When 
the student body turns out In such 
numbers, the team can teel that they 
are being backed up in their fight to 
place Carnegie Tech on the football 
map.
Plans in Progress 
For W. & J. Special
To Leave Union Station 
About Noon, Oct. 14
Tho Yole-Ourrioglo game Is now u 
matter of history and since our 
hardest I'oo hi out of tho way, Curnoglofl lads and lassies are looking 
forward to tho annual strugglo with 
Wash-Jeff at Little Washington.
Last year special train sorvlco was 
arranged. This year there will also 
bo special trains for Little Washing
ton. They will leave Pennsylvania 
Station about noon, Saturday, Octo
ber 14. Further details will bo given 
out as to tho oxact time. The round 
trip ticket will cost about if 1.50.
M. M. D. FACULTY RECEPTION
.Tho faculty or the Margaret Morri
son Carnegie College of Carnegie 
Tech, held a reception Friday from 4 
until G oclock In the Recreation 
Hall, of the college.
The reception was in honor of the 
new members of the faculty. Mrs. E. 
M. Vermorcken acted as chairman of 
the committee. The now members of 
the Margaret Morrison faculty are 
Miss Genevieve Fisher, professor of 
Vocational Home Economics for 
Teacher Training and head of the De
partment; Miss Harriet F. Clendon, 
associate professor and head of the 
Department of Household Economics; 
Miss Margurite Abbott, Instructor* 
Household Economics; Miss Lillian 
Kennedy, instructor. Nutrition; Miss 
Eleanor Francisco, Instructor, Cos
tume Economics; Miss Cecile Van 
Steenberg, instructor, Costume Eco(Continued on Page Four.)
Steffen Discovers All-American
Back; Is Phenomenal Speedster
(Special Wire to the Carnegie Tartan) 
What may be of tremendous Import 
to the prospects of the Carnegie Tech 
grid squad was uncovered last week 
by the vigilant coach, Judge Steffen, 
and all loyal rooters for the Plaid 
have cause to bo greatly encouraged.
filarly In the week, amidst the grind 
of a hard scrImage, the young aspir
ant sought out the coach, and demand
ed a football outfit.
Have you ever played before? 
asked the coach; Intent on Informa
tion.
Have I: says the Pieve, "ask 
Walt Camp!
"Let's seo you run," says' Wally, 
much impressed with something. 
The modest young candidate 
did so. There was a  burst 
of speed, a cloud of dust, a flashing of heels, and In a Few minutes a 
telegram from McKeesport announced 
that the back had last been seen head
ing due South,
Git a Llcenncl 
The following day the dark burse 
again reported to Manager Stroincjulst for an outfit. \t first there was 
somo discussion as to tho correct col
or In which to garh tho Hying wonder, 
many fearing that tho flying crimson 
Jersey would give tho Impression that . 
the town was on fire. At length, how
ever, a suitable uniform was socured, 
when loa now difficulty presented 
Itself.
"I represent, said a stranger who 
had just, made his appearance on the 
scene, the autompblle club of Pitts
burgh. This here Individual lias 
.(Continued on Page Three.)
7

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1922
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.___________
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ............................................................. Editor-in-Chief
TelephoneHiland S5S.
H. D. SONNEMANN.................................................................... Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND......................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD........:..........................................................Associate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON .............................................................................. Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9079
HORTENSE PURDY......................................................................Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
H. F. DIETER .......................................................................................... News Editor
TelephoneHazel 939S
E. J. MAUST ............................................................................................ News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9422
H. H. WILSON......................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneSchenley 2944
XI. P. HAY .............................................................................................. Photographer
R. B. KELLER...............................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR.............................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER ........................................................................... Special Writer
J. K. MATTER................................................................................... Special Writer
J. M. COOPER......................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley S211
J. C. MAJOR .....................................-............................................................................. ................Circulation Manager
TelephoneHiland 4011-J____________________________
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. Downes, F. C.
Smith.. L. Byerly, W. K. Sheppard, R. J. Kredel, F. D. Rossini, V. L. Spencer,
W. Winning. __________________________________________________________________
7 ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
H. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson.______________
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Scliucker, T. J. Dempsey, J. B.
Laudig, D. Moskovitz, J. W. Metro and P. W. Reilly.________________________
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the
Managing Editor for the make up.________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes ail communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student
postoffice-before 4:30 Friday.__________________________________________________ 
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00- ,__________________________
THE CARNEGIE BAND
COMMENTS
WHICH FRATERNITY?
A sclieme for getting kilts for the 'band, which sounds good, 
has been suggested ; the proposition is this : Each fraternity, club,
clan, class or other Carnegie organization pledge themselves to outfit 
one man; this could probably be worked out by some general com
mittee. Also to make a good band they must have musical instru
ments; which at present are badly needed, because what are now 
being used are worn out and most of the pieces hardly in shape to 
use. There seems to be no money available for replacing band mate
rial and therefore the alumni and students must consider some means 
of financing this too.
The band can be made one of the best advertisements for Car
negie, i everybody will get behind the organization and do their bit.
THE FRATERNITY RUSHING RULES
Under the column of comments on this page is an article 
headed, Which Fraternity, and because the fraternity rushing 
.period is nearing the end the Carnegie Tartan is printing this edi
torial. We believe that the new regulations which are on trial this 
year will enable Freshmen to become better fraternity men, because 
they will have a better opportunity to join the organization to which 
they will best fit in; also the fraternities can make better selections. 
That the Carnegie students realize the value of these rules and will 
live up to the spirit and the letter of this code is not doubted; but 
there may be strong temptation to get away with some infraction at 
timesthis we must guard against because it will soon undermine 
the whole purpose of co-operation and develop fraternity hatred 
which is bad for Carnegie.
W. & J. AND PENN STATE TRIPS
Upon entering college every man 
launches out into a new life. He is 
confronted by many difficult problems 
and faced with many paths which he 
is at liberty to follow. This new 
career of living allows him to make 
choices that seem to him ideal for a 
happy college course.
Fraternities present to him the ini
tial problem. He is called upon to 
choose within ten nays the group of 
men and the ideals which are to be 
his guiding environment for four 
years, and which will mould bis char
acter for life. Hence, it is supremely 
important to himself that he choose 
rightly and well. But lie finds his 
greatest problem to be, "How shall I 
judge?
After his short association with the 
men in the houses he visits he is able 
to form some idea, as to which groups 
particularly appeal to him and may 
eliminate those that do not. He re
ceives his impressions from the men 
whom he meets. He grows acquainted 
with their hospitality.  their charac
ters. their abilities and their standing 
upon the ca'mpus. The fraternity he 
joins must contain men whom he 
will be ready to accept as his most in
timate friends through college and 
through life. But in his considera
tion lie should not be misled by the 
"fronts put on merely for the pur
poses of rushing. "All that glitters 
is not gold.
Second to the friendships he is to 
form, probably the matter of next im
portance is the consideration of the 
ideals of the different fraternities. 
What are their standards and do they 
live up to them? He should ask him 
self if they are the standards which 
he is willing^o pledge himself to for 
four years.
In joining a fraternity it is always 
important to know oft the financial 
status of the house. He should learn 
what the costs will be to himself if 
he does accept a bid. He should know 
whether the house carries with it a 
heavy debt that lie will be called upon 
to pay. The condition of the house 
and all such matters should be con
sidered. He should learn what the 
national reputation of the fraternity 
is and how the particular chapter at 
Colgate rates.
These 'matters may be given fair 
answers by seeking for them from an 
unprejudiced source. Thomas- A.
Clark, Dean of Men at the University 
of Illinois, in his article entitled 
"Shall I Join a Fraternity? says rel
ative to this matter, "He ought to ask 
his questions.whenever possible of an 
unprejudiced person. Members of
the faculty will be valuable guides, 
especially those who are non-fratern
ity men.
It is unwise to' take too much for 
granted, while it is the height of wis
dom to gather all the facts possible. 
Deliberate carefully with much
thought, so that when the time for
ultimate decision is reached it may be 
for a contented four years of fra
ternity life.Colgate Maroon.
The Student Council are going to arrange the W. & J. and Penn 
State trips. A number of students were at the Yale game and are 
to be complimented fbr their spirit; but it was not possible for many 
to make the trip on account of the distance; however, it will be pos
sible for the entire student body to go to W. & J. and State. By 
assurance that a reasonable number, of students will go to State 
College, special arrangements can be made, so that the cost will only 
be nominal. Anyone who made these pilgrimages last year will 
not hesitate about going again, because they had a wonderful time. 
Anyone who did not go should not miss the opportunity this year.
Student Calendar
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1922
DanceSoph. Industries......................................4:30-6:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7
FootballGeneva versus Carnegie .................................... Pittsburgh
DanceFootball Dance (tentative)...........................8:30, Carnegie Union
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 11
General Student Assembly..................................................11:30, Music Hall
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 14
FootballWash-Jeft' versus Carnegie...............................Washington, Pa.
DanceFootball Dance (tentative)..........................8:30, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21
FootballThiel College versus Carnegie.....................................Pittsburgh
Cross-Country MeetU. of Cinn. versus Carnegie........................ There
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25
Cross-CountryAllegheny College versus Carnegie!.............Pittsburgh
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28 
Footb.allGrove City versus Carnegie.........................................................Pittsburgh
ROAMINS
Last Thursday night we had a 
football rally to send the team oft 
to New Haven. There were 250 
Plebes present, routed out of the 
dorms by 50 Sophs who came out 
for that purpose. About 200 others 
were there from the Junior and Sen
ior classes and from Margaret Morri
son.
The question is, Where were the 
rest? That rally created a big im
pression as it wound through East 
Liberty and put lots of pep and fight 
into the team.
But what would it have done if 
there had been twelve hundred stu
dents marching instead of five?
Inter-Sorority Council 
Established in Arts
Rules Set to Govern All 
Rushing of New Co-eds
Out at Penn State they have a 
football rally before every game, no 
matter how smball. And you dont 
hear of P. S. getting walloped.
Last year we had a. big rally be
fore the game with W. & J. The 
next, day the team went down there 
and, although they were up against 
the best team in the country, would at the end of the second school week.
An Inter-Sorority Council has been 
established in the College of Fine 
Arts, composed of Alpha Kappa Psi, 
Beetle Club and Beta PI.
The officers are: President. Fran
ces Burrows; Vice President, Betty 
Osborne; Secretary-Treasurei', Cora 
Pitcairn
-The Faculty Advisors are: Miss
Davidson, Alpha Kappa Psi; Miss Sea
man. Bettle Club; Miss Lottcn, Beta 
Pi.
In order to give a correct under
standing of the pledging conditions of 
the sororities of C. I. T. in the College 
of Fine Arts, the Inter-Sorority Coun
cil publishes the following:
The rules apply to Plebes and girls 
entering the College of Fine Arts for 
the first time.
An luter-'S'orority tea shall bo given
have held them to a tie score ex
cept for some bad breaks,
At the Waynesburg game the cheer
ing of Cranegie was terrible. Sound
ed like a gentle whisper, from the 
reserved section. The band and 
about 100 students were cheering 
while the other 1,497 fellows and co
eds were commenting upon the R. O. 
T. C. policemen.
We have an A1 team here at Car
negie Tech. To support it in a class 
A1 manner we should have class A1 
cheering. And the way to attain 
that is to have a cheering rally be
fore each game.
An advertised rally with cheering 
practice, singing practice, and talks 
by the coaches and players, serves to 
awaken enthusiasm in the students; 
it advertises the school; and it 
rouses the players to the pitch of 
football ifrenzy where they can best 
anything.
And thats what we want.
Registration in Day 
School Shows Decrease
Economic Depression Blamed 
For Drop
As I was coming cross the cut, .1 
ran into a funny nut, who took me 
by the arm. 1-Ie said, "Of knocking 
I dont dream, but' those guys on our 
football team should! go back to the 
farm. Our line, All through, is too 
darn light, is hasn't got the proper 
fight, the backfields just the same. 
I will admit that they are fast., 
but theyre too light, theyd never 
last throughout a real hard game.
At Washington well sure get beat; 
Penn State will eat us up' like meat; 
and Notre Dame! O my. For when 
I think of what a wreck those guys 
will make of poor old Tech, it near
ly makes me >ctry.
I jerked my arm out. of his hand, 
and said to him, "In this freo land 
youve got the right to kick. But if 
you shout another lino, 1 shall lay 
down these hooks of mine, and! hit 
you with a brick.
Wo have too many follows liero 
who like to bring us tilings drear, 
theres too much direful talk. So if 
youre built that funny way that you 
can't find good things to say, for 
heavens sake, dont, knock.
Rushing period shall begin after the 
Inter-Sorority tea and last until the 
Saturday before the Thanksgiving 
vacation, on which day bids in the 
form of letters shall be sent to the 
prospective pledges, through the Dean 
of Women.
Replies to the letters shall be given 
to the faculty advisor of the chosen 
sorority oh the first Monday after the 
Thanksgiving vacation.
During tlio time following the Sat
urday Thanksgiving vacation and the 
day set for the acceptance of bids 
there shall be a period of mutual si
lence during which time the prospec
tive pledges are free to ask questions 
pertaining to the sorority only of the 
faculty advisors.
Students entering the College of 
Fine Arts in February cannot be 
pledged until the Easter vacation, at 
which time similar rules will be car
ried out.
"GET THE FACTS Each college (Engineering, IndusPublicity is the greatest ot nil ad- trlcs' Morrison mul Arts)
vertisoments. A city grows directly 
in proportion to its Chamber of 
Commerce activities. An industrial 
concern grows as a people learn of 
its real services rondored. A school 
grows directly as its Alumni. And 
so on it. goesto every single thing 
on earth, as attention is showered 
upon it, It grows, and as a great 
general rule, directly.
Cities may have their Chamber of 
Commerces; industrial concerns their 
advertisement departments, colleges 
their publicity bureaus; but, unless 
all these are backed up by something 
else, they will fail. And so, back 
of all publicity bureaus in all col
leges is that great, growing and 
pulsing influence that loves, reveres 
and. protects the name of their Alma 
Materthe ALUMNI and their OR
GANIZATION.
Carnegie Tech Alumni are two 
types: Graduate and Associate. They 
are organized in Clans in many cit
ies. Graduates only can hold office. 
Associates can only vote. The latter 
must have attended Carnegie Tech 
at least one year, and have an honor
able dismissal. They must be elected 
by their respective school associa
tions. Members of tlio faculty are 
also eligible for associate member 
ship.
These Alutnni are scattered 
throughout, the United States and in 
many foreign countries. They vote 
by mail
has its own association. Each as
sociation has a board of directors, 
and elects a president, secretary and 
one other membei1, who sits as mem
ber of the joint federation.
The Alumni Federation aside from 
these three members from each asso
ciation has two other members at 
large, elected from eight of the 
members of tlio four schools, making 
in all fourteen members of the feder
ation.
Thin federation is the high su
preme council of the Alumni organi
zation. They elect their own offi
cers. hold monthly meetings, and 
maintain offices at the school. All 
dues are paid in this central office, 
nut all disbursements are made there
from.
The "C. I. T. ALUMNUS Is their 
organ, and is published twice a 
month during the college year. It 
keeps the alumni informed of their 
chief activities around school, as well 
as with the doings of the various 
Clans.
The present organization as stated 
above has been in existence since 
August, 15121. Prior to that time, 
while there was an organization, it 
was not centralized.
Yours for a bettor known Carnegie 
Tech.
Col. Brooks Retires From 
Active Duty at Carnegie
ARTS ASSEMBLY
College of Fine Arts held its second 
Assembly Wednesday, September 27, 
in the Little Theater, President Rody 
Patterson presiding. Various announce
ments were made by upper class men; 
one concerning the Soph Tea Dance, 
.to be' given by the Sophs of the Col
lege of Fine Aits to the Plebes.
Doc Taylor, Karl Snyder and Ross 
Hertz entertained the students with a 
humorous selection.
The Plebes had a fine turnout and 
the assembly was followed by an in
spection. The following have been 
nominated for office:
PresidentJohn Osier, Clayton Wal
ker, R. D. Dette, R. D. Albright.
Vice PresidentKatherine Hessler, 
Alice Nelson, Ida Kaouse, Dorothy 
Donovan, Harriet Blose, Helen Emer
son, Mildred Lemans, Harriett Westerwelt, Mary Shaw.
SecretaryAnne Zmert, Miss Seal's.
TreasurerKennedy S. Moboli.
Election to be held Wednesday, Oc
tober 4, in Room 102, at 1:00 p. m., 
Arts Building.
in October. The next date has not 
been set.
The Y office is negotiating with 
the Y at Penn State to get their co
operation in taking care of the Car
negie rooters, who will follow the 
team to State.
UNESSENTIAL COLLEGIATE
DICTIONARY FOR FRESHMEN
JY" NEWS
The first weekly swim was held 
in Schenley High School pool last Fri
day from 7 to 8 p. m. These swims 
will be weekly and are free to all 
Carnegie Tech men.
The second step in the Senior Coun
selor Freshmen plan was effected Sun
day when the Senior Counsellors met 
the Plebes in the Central building and 
took them to the open house in the 
girls' dormitories from 4 to 6 p. m.
The next meeting of the Seniors 
and Freshmen will probably be at a 
dinner in the cafeteria some evening
Absentfour points off.
Booksomething that stays open all 
night.
Cutsee absent.
Drag- to' escort a girl (do not use 
literal translation !
Excusea line a Prof. wont accept.
Freshmena species of the human 
race recognized by a black skull cap 
with a green hutton.
Graduationa ceremony that few of 
you will enjoy.
Hand Booka small book to carry in 
your pocket to tell you how to fol
low the straight and narrow path.
Initiationsomething you join a fra
ternity to experience.
Jippeda state of coma that you 
think you are On when you get a 
zip.
Kida verb referring to something 
that you think you can do Lo the 
Profs, but can't.
Laughwhat you must do when a 
Prof cracks a joke.
Moneya medium that talks. It says 
goodbye.
Ninetyan unknown average.
Optomista freshman.
Pessimista senior.
Re-exam-something to looic forward 
to.
Snakingan average gymnasium
sport.
Stevens,
An official report covering the day 
school registration at Carnegie Tech 
has been tendered to the board of 
trustees by Mr. Alan Bright, the Reg
istrar. Tills report shows a decrease 
in the total number of. day students 
in all of the Colleges of Carnegie 
Tech, as compared with 15)21-22 regis
tration. The total number of regis
tered day students last year was two 
thousand five hundred and sixty-six. letters. 
This year there are two thousand one 
hundred and six.
This decrease in the number of day 
students is perhaps due to the period 
of economic depression which has en
gulfed the entire country for the past 
twenty months, and which is only now 
beginning to show an improvement.
As the embarkation of an individual 
upon a college career is a matter of 
long and serious deliberation and ex
tensive plans, the effects of the busi
ness depression are just beginning to 
show themselves as regards the num
ber of students attending colleges and 
universities. A marked improvement 
in the financial condition of the mass, 
of people in the near future will re
sult in an increase in the number of 
college students in the next few years.
The registration of the day school 
here includes students from practic
ally every state in the Union and from 
about twenty-five foreign countries.
The respective numbers registered 
in each school will be found on the 
second page.
Wo are. running below a letter 
which speaks for itself. Roamer 
fully agrees with the author on tlio 
subject:
The Puppet is to be congratulated 
for its effective way of advertising 
the appearance of its various issues. 
However, would the Puppet coneidor 
a Tech student impertinent who sug
gests that they clean up the campus 
by romovlng their posters after, they 
have served their purpose?"
Lets have more letters. Have a 
few on hand which will be run at. a 
later date. Dont forget to sign all
ROAMER.
Mid-West Association
to Hold Plebe Meetings
Colonel John C-. W. Brooks, U. S. A., 
Commanding Officer of the Officers 
Reserve Corps at Carnegie Toch, has 
been retired from active duty and will 
be rolleved on November 1st. Lieu
tenant Colonol Thomas G. Cunning
ham, U. S. A., will probably relieve 
Colonol Brooks. I-Ils orders liavo been 
revoked twice and then repeatod so it 
is not certain yet that ho will bo sta
tioned here.
Colonel Brooks graduated In 1885 
from the United Statos Military Acad
emy at Wost Point. Ho rocoivod his 
commission as a Second Lieutenant In 
tlio Artillery Corps, Juno 1-lth, 1885. 
Colonel Brooks served through two 
wars-the Spanlsh-Amerlcan War and 
the late World War. in the SpanlshAmerlcan War lie was in tlio Quar 
ternmster Corps and In the World 
War lie commanded the Carnegie Tech 
Students Army Training dorps.
Colonel Brooks rocoivod his com
mission as a Colonel in tlio Coast 
Artillery in 15)00. On March III, 1012, 
ho was retired from active duty at his 
own request after having served over 
thirty years In the Army. In 1017, 
when the United States entorod tlio 
World War, ho was called hack to 
active sorvico and placed In command 
of the S. A. T. C. hero.
Colonel Brooks has always been 
a big booster for Carnoglo Tech. Ho 
has taken a great Interest In tho 
school and our athlotlcs. I-Ils throe 
championship tennis teams have boon 
the best Carnegie has ever had.
 Lloutenant Colonol Cunningham 
served In tho Army during tho Spanlsh-Amerlcan War as an enlisted man. 
Ho romalnod In the sorvico after tho 
war and in 15)01 ho rocoivod his com
mission as a second lieutenant. His 
World War record was of tho best 
and ho will undoubtedly bo able to 
fulfill his mission liore successfully.
Employment Bureau 
Has Many Openings
Steel Co. Arranges For Part 
Time Work
Puppet to Have Contest
For New Art Editor
NEWMAN CLUB RECEPTION
The ballroom of the Duquesne Coun
cil K. of C., was the scene of the an
nual reception, for the members of the 
Newman Club last Wednesday eve
ning. Maggios orchestra furnished 
the music, contributing much to the 
success of the reception.
The evening was enjoy ably spent in 
dancing and in renewing old acquaint
anceships. The committee in charge 
cannot be sufficiently commended for 
the mannerin which they handled the 
crowd which was present.
The initial meeting of the club was 
held Sunday, (September 24, at the 
Cathedral High School. Much im
portant business was disposed of and 
an active year Is predicted for the 
Pittsburgh chapter. Catholic stu
dents who have not joined are urged 
to do so at the next meeting.
At a meeting of the executive coun
cil of tiie Mid-West Association, 
Junior Clan o the Alumni Associa
tion, plans were made to carry on the 
work that was started last year.
Plans are under way for the lunch
eons to be given at frequent times 
during the school year, at which times 
the chances of bringing closer rela
tions between the students of the va
rious Mid-West and Western states 
to bring closer relations between the 
student and the alumnito work up 
plans for bringing Carnegie Tech be
fore the High School students of the 
Mid-Western and Western States, and 
to show what Tech has to offer for 
them in the way of education,
.. working with the Alumni the 
members when they return to their 
various states attempt to bring to
gether the unorganized Alumni in 
their territory and organize them into 
the Clans; bring the news of the 
school and bind the Alumni that has 
drifted from its Alma Mater back to 
the school.
A good per cent of the student body 
has its residence in the middle states, 
and many do not realize the fact that 
others come from around their home 
territory, and never realize, the same 
until they are finished wilh their work 
at Tech and are home in Clan 
meet. It Is the purpose to bring these 
students together and make binding 
friendship before they! are out of 
school.
It Is the duty of every Mid-Western 
and Western man to come out and 
partake In the activities as It means 
a larger and better Alumni AssoclaDean Tarbell Resumes His 
Duties After Long Absence
On September 30, Dean Tarbell re 
turned to Pittsburgh from Chatham, 
Cape Cod, where he has been recover
ing his health during the past few 
months. Last Monday he assumed 
his duties as Dean of Men.
Acting Dean of Men Kirkpatrick, 
wishes to express his appreciation of 
the co-operation and goodwill which 
the students have shown towards him 
during his term of office. He also 
hopes that the student body will con 
tinue to support Dean Tarbell and to 
work with him for the good of Car
negie.
The Acting Dean will again take up 
his position in the English Depart
ment from which he was removed dur
ing Dean Tarbells leave of absence.
Tho Student Employment Bureau 
announces that tlioro is plenty of 
work for students dosirlng part time 
employment, but that tho Bureau lias 
no warning of when tho work is com
ing in, and thoroforo tho students 
should make their applications for 
work very often. Tho announcement 
which appeared In tho last Issuo of 
the Tartan was a mistake, and tho 
Employment Bureau dosiros it made 
plain that there are joUs of various 
kinds opon continually.
The Burouu lias poiTormod a groat 
sorvico to tho students of Carnoglc 
Toch in previous yours, and Its work 
this year Is oven moro useful than 
before. NInoty-oIght studonts have 
boon glvon employment slnco tho first 
of Soptombor through tho efforts of 
tho Bureau, and this number Is in
creasing dally. Tho positions vary 
from work in residences for room and 
board to clerical work, house work, 
positions as chauffeurs, tutors, assist
ant. instructors, otc. Jonos A Laugh1 In Stool Company has arranger to 
take studonts who doslro employ
ment In tho stool mills on Friday and 
Saturday nights or all day Saturday. 
Tho shifts will bo ten hours In length. 
Those who desire to got; In two shifts 
can do so by working the two nights, 
while others can work Saturdays only. 
Jonos JSr LaughIIn Is tho first largo 
concern to come to tho aid of studonts 
who are working tholr way through 
school, and it Is hoped that other 
largo companies, either manufacturlng stool or othor artlelos, will fol
low Its example.
Tho Employment Bureau appre
ciates the efforts of the students in 
reporting their summer work, but an
nounces that there are a groat many 
who havo yol: failed to do tills. It must 
bo remembered that those who enroll 
In tho Bureau are supposed to roport 
on tholr earnings during their entire 
college career. Tho Bureau is entire
ly dependent on the studonts for those 
reports.
A summary of tho service glvon to 
studonts Is required from Employ
ment Bureau at stated Intervals by 
tho directors of Carnegie Toch, and 
from this summary tho directors de
cide whether or not the Bureau is 
worth keeping up. It is certainly clear 
to every student that the Bureau Is 
not onlj' worth keeping up, but in 
truth, must be kept up. It Is the re
ports from students on the amount 
which they earn that the Bureau 
turns in to the directors of the col
lege. It is easily seen, therefore, how 
Important to the Employment Bureau 
it is for every one registered with 
them to turn In a report, and the bu
reau earnestly requests all.students to 
do this .
During the last week the initial 
number of Carnegies humorous maga
zine, tho Puppet, made Its appearance 
on the campus. Tho Puppet is rated 
as being one of thei leading magazines 
of its kind in tho country.
TI10 staff needs tho support of tho 
student body in every way. A glance 
around tho campus at almost any time 
will show that there is plenty of wit 
and humor around. Some of this tal
ent can be utilized In helping to fill 
out tho pagos of tho paper.
Did you take notice of tho scarcity 
of cuts? Well that can bo oxplninod by 
tho absonco of an Art Editor. During 
tho next fow woolcs a contest will be 
conducted for this position. If you 
are interested, see a member of tho 
staff.
tion organization In the Middle West 
and West.
The organization is open to the en 
tire student body living west of Ohio 
and North of the Mason-DIxon 
Line, and everyone is asked to he out 
and work with the organization.
INDUSTRIES SOPH. MEETING
Tho second mooting of tho Sopho
mores of Industries School, was hold 
Tuesday, Soptombor 25, In Room 104. 
About fifty mon wore prosont. Var
ious questions concerning tho activi
ties of tho coming your wore discussed 
and It was dooldod to collect rogular 
dues of 25 oonts a. month from oaclt 
member of tho class, Section load
ers to be appointed by tho President 
will havo charge of tho collection.
Hughes, chairman of tho sniokor 
committee, gave a. short roport of tho 
plans for tho Ploho sniokor to bo giv
en In tho near future.
Thovo was also discussion of plans 
for Friday afternoon toa-dnncos and a 
com ml (too of throo was appointed to 
take euro ot' tho matter. Zlnn, E. L. 
Smith and Minims wore those named.
hllANK; 1ROTIIIIKRS
fifth Avenue Boot Slioj
nunr -1(111 iitroot. Now York 
Style nhoon of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
his new chop house just erected on 
the lot next to the old Skibo Inn. This 
is a good chance to save the price of 
the Penn 'State game!
THEY'KNOW YOU 
Carry Mellon Travelers' 
Checks or Letters of Cred
it. They Identify you be
yond question and therell 
be no necessity of cabling 
back to straighten out pos
sible embarassments due 
to unfamiliarity with for
eign customs and condi
tions.
Mellon National Bank
Oliuer Jiue.S Srmthfield
1
CHANCE FOR TWO WEEKS 
FREE BOARD GIVEN TO
ALL CARNEGIE STUDENTS
E. DeColas, the new culinary artist 
on. the campus, wishes to announce 
that he will provide absolutely free, 
no strings attached, a two weeks com
mutation of rations to the Tech stu
dent- Plebes not exceptedwho be
fore October 10th submits tho most 
unique and original nom de plume for
Registration-Day CoursesSeptember 21, 1922
College
Engineering ..............
Fine Arts .................................
Industries .................................
Margaret Morrison Carnegie
Graduate Senior Junior Sophomore Freshmen
College 
Graduate Total
1014712420124632760
2405190194763456
G3957962142441
177641001512624272222
35327334 4706537620382,106
TECH MEIN!
Patronize Tech Men.
Send us your used razor blades with 35c enclosed for every dozen. 
Our resharpened blades will give satisfaction.
Pittsburgh Electric Grinding Co.
3725 BIGELOW BOULEVARD
See our low, medium and high priced tires, tubeB, rims and auto 
accessories. Also a few used tires.
Bigelow Supply Co.
3725 BIGELOW BOULEVARD
? Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
Cross Country Schedule 
Promises Good A\eetsOn the Plaid ScreenFollowing Our Eastern Visit
Th first trials of the cross coun
try squad are rapidly approaching i 
and the men are getting tuned up in j 
an endeavor to make the team and! 
the first trip to Cincinnati. The old! 
men on the squad are showing up; 
fairly well but much is expected j 
from the new ones. Among the newj 
men who are showing some ability 
are: Fuller, Swanson, Atwood, White 
and Kauffman. The schedule has 
. been' pretty well completed since the 
cinching of the Penn State meet and 
lines up as follows:
October 21Cincinnati University. 
There.
October 25Allegheny College. 
Here.
November 4Syracuse Invitation. 
There.
November 11Penn State. There.
November ISSenior A. M. A. 
Meet. Here.
November 27Intercollegiates, New 
. York.
A new course is being laid uot 
which will be much better than the 
old one, relieving much of the mo
notony. This course will probably 
cover a distance of about six miles 
out through Schenley Park
By H. H. WILSON
THE COLLEGIATE SIX 
ORCHESTRA 
Dance Music Specialties. 
EVERETT HUGHES 
Hiland 858.
5224 LIBERTY AVENUE
BACK AGAIN!
TECH NOVELTY 
DANCE ORCHESTRA
Stephen Kovach, Jr.
Schenley 9211
4915 FORBES ST.
13-0
Not a bad score at all after that 
44-0 of two years ago. The Yale 
steamroller bumped up against a solid 
stonewall last Saturday and even had 
to back up when the Plaid warriors 
invaded the Blue territory on more 
than one occasion. Those red jerseys 
flashed dangerously when the Tartans 
reached the 12 yard mark near the 
end of the first half. With, a little 
more time the story might have been 
somewhat different.
It is evident that the Bulldog was 
outplayed in the matter of ground 
gaining, for the Skibos are credited 
with 157 Yards to 71 for the Flis. Time 
and again Yale was held for downs 
and forced to punt or drop-kick a goal.
The result was beyond expectations 
but nevertheless we had that sneak
ing suspicion that the boys would play 
some real football and they surely did. 
Although it was not a victory, it gives 
us an elated feeling. On the other 
hand Yale made a creditable showing 
and was particularly steady in the 
crises. Our one serious fault of the 
Carnegie eleven seemed to be the f re
quent fumbling of the ball just when 
a few yards were necessary. Perhaps 
it may be attributed to stage f right, 
-but whatever the cause, it needs to 
be eliminated
Hot Off the Gridiron.
Some of the boys who helped hold
the Buldog had never seen the ocean 
before and proceeded to take a swim, 
they found that ocean water bad a pe
culiar (briny flavor and not quite so 
good to chink as some other things.
They told Mefort that the bellowing 
of the fog horns on the Sound came 
from sea cows. Then he wanted to 
know if they came in at night to be 
milked. We surmise that you'd have 
to go out beyond the three-mile limit.
A Gridirbn Comedy.
Is what you might have called the 
game on Saturday betweeu the Plebes 
and Westinghouse Tech. The fum
bles were frequent but the Freshmen 
backfield men generally scooped up 
the ball, instead of just falling on it. 
and ran for a considerable gain. The 
Plebes moreover seemed to be more 
fleet of foot than the Westiughouse 
boys, frequently outsprinting them tor 
a touchdown. Coach Beeler has de
veloped the team well for the time he 
has had them. . With a little more sig
nal practice and experience he should 
have a crack team before the end of 
the season. Joe Kristoff, the Plebe 
quarterback, did some great work and 
gives promise of future varsity mater
ial.
The reports from New Haven which 
came in by radio during the game, 
were all right after they started ex
cept that somebody was trying to give 
out baseball scores while the details 
of the Yale game were coming in.
Tech Plebes Win Easy 
Game From Westinghouse
SCIENCE SOPHS NOMINATE 
SENATE REPRESENTATIVE
RENAUDS
BAKERY & CONFECTIONERY 
specializing in fraternity ser
vice and school functions 
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 300.
G. C. Salzman, 4921 Forbes 
street (Schenley 659), a Tech 
maji, has the agenc^ for Renauds and will appreciate your 
.order.
Radio and Electrical Supplies.
STORAGE BATTERIES 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANr 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig Street.
Phone Schenley 4545.
FALL UNDERWEAR 
We Have Your Style and Size.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Last Wednesday at/ll:30 A. M. in 
21S Science, the Soph Engineers held 
their first class meeting for the pur
pose of, electing a successor to Moessner, in the Science Senate. After 
much discussion as to the constitu
tionality of such an impromptu proce
dure, nominations were taken and 
Craighead was elected.
Hoenninger had in the meantime 
been dispatched to determine the va
lidity of the election and returned 
with a message from the Junior Pres
ident. Griggs, stating that such an 
election was out of order.
Another election will be held at the 
next meeting from the following nomi
nees: F. C. Smith, Sack, James, Gard
ener, I-I. N. Smith, Rossback, Craig
head and Kemery.
15,000 FOOTBALL MANIACS 
WITNESS YALE DEFEAT THE 
CARNEGIE GRIDDERS 13 TO 0
sc ;My Home 
! Away From | 
I Home
(Continued From Page One.) 
assisted by Niedlinger. None of the 
rest of the team were able to gain 
with any degree of consistency 
through the stone-wall defense as 
molded together by Coach "Wally" 
Steffen. As a general rule, "T.A.D. 
Jones, Yale Coach, employed straight 
football with an occasional forward 
pass. To oppose this, Carnegie Tech 
opened up a varied assortment of 
plays depending upon the speed of her 
backfield, and holding qualities of the 
forwards. Success attended their ef
forts often on these type of plays in 
such a 'manner that Yale students, 
alumni, and New Haven citizens will 
talk of for many days to come.
Moran Injured.
For Carnegie Tech there were no 
outstanding stars. Wiennan and 
Robertson did the bulk of the gain
ing. but their interference was wellnigh perfect, which does not belittle 
their work in the least bit. Potter 
made some nice gains on the criss
cross back of the line, as did Alaba/m Newman when he was placed 
in the game in the fourth quarter. 
Newman also distinguished himself 
by snagging four forward passes 
from the arm of Allen Wierman. 
Brumbaugh gained through the line, 
but generally found the Yale line much 
too heavy. Moran played a .nice game 
running interference, and occasionally 
carrying the ball and throwing for
ward passes until injured with a 
broken shoulder. The injury taay 
prove serious and keep him out of 
the game for the rest of the season. 
If this turns out to be the case, the 
team will miss him very much. Al 
* Irwin played the greatest game of his 
career. He was everywhere. He did 
not. make a single bad pass. Time 
and time again he threw Yale backs 
for losses. Potter, Godden, and New
man, ends, did wonderful work and 
kept Yale end runners buffaloed 
throughout the game, aside from get
ting down the field under punts, snagThat is what the fel- : 
lows call the Oakland. 
Methodist Church and 
Community House.
3904 FORBES ST.
Drop in and see for 
yourself.
WS RESTAURANT
Real Home Cooking 
116 OAKLAND AVE.
ging forward passes, and making 
gains via double pass route. Gilbert, 
Zelt, Comfort., Sprinkle, and Ivristof 
at guards and tackles were, in the 
game all of the time. The new 'men 
showed up fine for new men, and 
proved that they can stand the gaff 
against the best in the country.
Yales lone touchdown came in the 
first period, and was a direct result 
of a fumble. Previous to this the 
game had been nip and tuck with the 
advantage very slightly in Yales fa
vor. On a fumble Captain Jordan of 
Eli recovered, and immediately the 
Bulldog opened their only successful 
assault on the Plaid goal line. Jor
dan got a. yard and Neidlinger fol
lowed with three more. Neidlinger 
followed with a gain for the necessary 
distance. Becket kicked goal from 
scrimmage.
The remaining six po!nt& were made 
as a direct result of the holding quali
ties of the Carnegie Tech defense, 
forcing Yale to resort to the educated 
toe of OHearn. O'l-Ioarn had pre
viously attempted a goal, and had it 
blocked. On his second attempt, he 
sent the pig-skin sailing squarely 
through the goal posts from the 51 
yard line. It was the prettiest field 
goal seen in the Yale Bowl in many 
a day. Not long after he made his 
third attempt and it went good from 
the Carnegie Tech 18 yard line.
This ended the scoring for the game, 
and from this point onward to the 
whistle, Carnegie Tech proceeded to 
dazzle Yalos defense with her varied 
offense. The crowd was thrilled time 
and time again 'by the lightning fast 
backs as they circled the ends.
The lineup:
Yale Carnegie Tech
Cutler..................L. E........................Potter
Miller................. L.T.........................Zelt
Cru ikshank........ L. G.................Com fort
Landis...................C.........................Irwin
Cross.................. R. G....................Gilbert,
Biller.................. R. T.................Sprinkle]
Hulman ............R. E.............. Godden
Becket................ . Q.............Robertson
Jordan, Cap .... .R. H.. Anderson Cap.
Neidlinger......... L. I-I...................Moran
Mallory................F.................Brumbaugh
The score by periods:
Yale ..................7 G 0 013
Carnegie Tech..O 0 0 0 0
Touchdowns  Neidlinger. Goals 
after touchdownsBecket. Field
goalsO'Hearn (2).
Substitutions: YaleOHearn for
Becket, Eddy for Hulman, Luman for 
Blair, Norris for Landis. Knapp for 
Neidlinger. Quaile for Cross, Lufkin 
for Cruikshank, Deaver for Luman, 
Blair for Deaver, Lovejoy for Dlller, 
Hulman for Eddy. Carnegie Tech 
Donohue for Moran. Weirman for 
Robertson, Newman for Godden, Ivristof for Zelt.
Officials-Referee, J. H. Moffat. 
Umpire, David Fultz. Linesman. E.
B. Cochens, Field Judge, W. R. Crow
ley.
FROM THE SIDELINES
Jimmy Robertsons pretty end run 
near the end of the second quarter was 
one of the scintillating features of 
the game.
Red Godden acquitted himself no
bly, breaking up plays, helping in 
gains around the end and in blocking 
a drop kick off Beckets toe.
Charlie OHearn, Yales star hooter, 
was an outstanding part of the Bull
dogs offensive, negotiating two field 
goals, one from the 52 yard line, and 
also out-punting Anderson.
Tad Jones, Yale head coach, com
plimented Wally Steffen on the fine 
showing of the Tartans. New Haven 
papers had been figuring on three 
touchdowns, but evidently they hadnt 
looked over the Plaid machine.
Among the crowd of 15,000 which 
attended the game were Walter Camp 
and Greasy Neale. Camp might 
have been looking for All-American 
material and no doubt Neale was try
ing to get some dope on the Skibos, 
to alleviate his fears for a week from 
Saturday.
Tennis Tournament 
Nears Final Rounds
Coach Brooks Has Plan For 
Fall Practice
Getting the facts for the Carnegie 
Tartan is like unscrambling eggs.
Early to bed and early to rise and 
youll never meet a dramat.
REGISTRATION COMPLETED
IN NIGHT SCHOOL
Continued From Page One. 
of part-time courses ror which classes 
will be held on [Saturday mornings for 
teachers and high school students. 
The part-time course for teachers will 
cover Freehand Drawing, Design. 
Metal Work. Elementary Pottery, 
Methods of Teaching Art, Sketching, 
Costume Design and Home Docoration. The part-time courses for high 
school -students , includes Freehand 
Drawing. Sketching, Design, Letter
ing, Modeling. Architectural Drafting, 
Elementary Harmony, Mass Lessons 
on Piano, Violin, Violoncello, and all 
other instruments of the symphony 
orchestra.
The College of Engineering give? 
courses in the night school covering 
Chemistry, Civil Engineering, EIoctrical Engineering, Mechanical Engi
neering, and Metallurgical Engineer
ing.
The College of  Fine Arts offers 
night Instruction in the following: 
ArchitectureDesign, Freehand Draw
ing, Construction. Painting and Illus
trationDrawing, Painting. Illustra
tion, Sketching. Applied ArtDesign, 
Interior Decoration, Crafts. Music 
Harmony and Counterpoint, Orchestra-, 
tion Composition, Instrumental Per
formance, Methods. DramaDiction, 
Elementary Technic, Dancing, Re
hearsal. SculptureModeling.
The College of Industries conducts 
night classes in Plumbing, Heating 
and Ventilating, Electric Wiling, 
Sheet Metal Work. Carpentry, Brick
laying and Masonry, Structural Draft
ing, Plan-reading and Estimating, 
Printing, Mechanical Drafting, Auto
mobile Maintenance and Operation, 
Oxy-acetylene Welding, Practical 
Chemistry, Stationary Engineering, 
Telephony, Lead Burning and Storage 
Batteries. >
The night school of Carnegie Tech 
is conducted for the purpose of mak
ing the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology as useful as possible to the 
masses by providing night instruction 
to day workers in their respective 
lines of endeavor. The night courses 
furnish an excellent opportunity. for 
ambitious men and women to increase 
their efficiency and earning power.
YALE SMEARED FOR A LOSS
Never before has a tournament at 
Carnegie Tech be#n run off in such 
good order and In such true form as 
the one which Is at the present time 
nearing the finals.
One feature that has increased the 
interest is the fact that few defaults 
have been made. Each round has 
had a tlmo limit for playing and in 
some cases it was imposiblo for 
each opponent to moot his own 
within the specified time, but the 
smooth-running of the tournament 
was not affected by any irrogularlty 
duo to forfeitures.
The wholo week has boon ideal for 
the sport, nncl together with the wollkept courts the matches have pro
gressed until they have reached the 
semi-finals.
Some vory good forni ha,H been 
demonstrated both in those who have 
won and also In those who have lost. 
The close scores and deuce sols of 
many matchos allow that some of 
the losers know the gaino well hut 
on account of lack, of practice they 
could not overcome their opponents. 
It Is hoped that those who did not 
survive the semi-finals talco as much 
advantago of playing as possible and 
fbo ablo to come out strong for the 
squad in the sprlyg.
The attends no.o at the various 
matches was not large but now that 
the finals are about to bo played, the 
spectators will be crowding tho odgos 
of the courts to soo tho remaining 
contestants volley the tennis ball In 
a fashion never before witnessed In 
a tournament at Carnegie.
Vory true to form Uioso who wore 
seeded by Colonel Brooks and Cap
tain Schwartz are coming out on top, 
after each bad played through four 
matches. The original chart Includ
ed thirty-eight entries and the secv 
ond elimination loft only sixteen. 
Those sixteen played their matches 
before the end of last week and 
their results proved that tho selec
tion for seeding was perfect to a 
man.
Up until this writing four of tho 
last eight have played and this 
brings the tournament up to tho 
.semi-semi finals which will be run
off during the best weathor-favorable 
days this week.
The results of tho final matches 
and of the Individual playing will be 
placed in The Tartan next week, 
while the champion of the tourna
ment shall be presented with the 
handsome trophy cup at the earliest 
general assembly. The cup is on 
display at the beanery where every
one may see the reward for the stu
dent who puts his active efforts into 
play at the courts.
There will be a great deal of com
petition for the two open berths on 
the team next spring, and in order 
to see just who will play the bestI
 teamwork, Colonel Brooks has de
vised a scheme by which he thinks 
Coach Garland, his successor, may 
| have a nucleues for the spring try| outs.
Coach Brooks wishes to have the 
men from the finals of the tourna
ment play the runners-up of the op
posite half in order to determine 
the true ability of those men who 
succeeded in plowing through, to the 
semi-finals. The two beat men out of 
that series of matches will he placed 
on the same side of the court against 
the veteran racqueters, Captain 
Schwartz and John Kell as the op
posing team. The coach will also 
have these men play in singles until 
each has played tho other three.
Coach Garland flhould bo very v/ell 
pleased to havo this idea of Colonel 
Brooks as a help In selecting his 
team next spring.
Manager Krelsle has been keeping 
In touch with other college tennis 
throughout the country and he is 
now trying to arrange a match with 
the Leland-Stanford Junior Univer
sity team as soon as the tournament 
has been completed. The - LelandStanford team has been on an east
ern trip all summer and C. I. T. will 
welcome this match if it can possibly 
be arranged.
While the big boys were making tho 
Yale Bulldog look like a Prenoli pood
le Saturday tho Carnegie Tech Plebe 
team was showing some class of its 
own .against the strong Westinghouse 
Tech eleven, winning by tho score 
of 38-0.
The Carnegie quarterback, Christoff, 
seemed to have been under the im
pression that it was a track meet, for 
he ran wild with the pigskin and 
scored every touchdown of tho game. 
The Westinghouse aggregation gener
ously humored his delusion and fre
quently left openings for tho fleet 
Christoff to slip through.
The Plebes scored two touchdowns' 
in t.ie first quarter, but failed in both 
cases to gain the extra point. The 
first came after Westinghouse was 
forced to punt, from behind her goal 
line. Tho ball was advanced by 
Christoff and Daniels, and finally car
ried across by the former. The sec
ond tally was the result of a forward 
pass, Christoff again carrying the ball. 
The quarter waS marked by frequent 
fumbles by both teams.
In the second period Westinghouse 
took the ball on downs, punted, and 
was hit for gains by the Tartans. 
Christoff eventually took tho ball over 
for the third touchdown, but failed to 
get the extra point. The third quar
ter stCw 7 more points added to thi 
Plaid total, when the ball was advanc
ed by line plunges and taken across 
by tho quarterback, who then kicked 
goal.
Tho final scores were made in the 
last quarter. The first was made by 
Christoff after his teaimmat.es had torn 
big holes In the enemys defense. He 
sent the ball between the posts for 
one moro point,. The same r.layor 
again scored a little later on an end 
run around the Westinghouse right 
flank. Ills kick for goal was blocked,
Tlip game was featured by many for
ward passes by both teams, several 
of which were successful. Though 
outclassed. Westinghouse fought hard 
all the way, and the Plobos des' rvo 
credit for a well-onrnod victory. Tho 
lineup:
Steffen Expects Hard 
Game With Geneva Sat.
Geneva, With Fine Defense 
Has An Outside Chance
Coach Steffen Is not looking for an 
easy victory next Saturday when tho 
Tartan team lines up against the Gen
ova Colloge team at, tho Carnegie field. 
Geneva hi the first game of the sea
son suffered a. setback at the hands 
of the Washington and Jefferson team 
after holding the Presidents scoreless 
for three quarters only to lose in the 
last quarter of the game. They havo, 
a strong defense and if they can de
velop'an offense which can approach 
the strength of their defense they will 
be a. very dangerous team. In last 
Saturdays gahie they defeated 
Waynesburg College by the score of 
6-0, but Waynesburg never threatened 
their goal.
Carnegie decisively defeated this 
same team1 by the score of 54-0, but 
considering the fact that W. & J. 
could not penetrate the Geneva de
fense until the last quarter it is quite 
probable that the Tartans will meet 
with plenty of opposition in the game 
next Saturday.
Geneva, last year, held Carnegie to 
a score of 7-0 and has practically the 
same team this year. Coach' Steffen 
is uot going to take a chance and is 
preparing the team for a hard con
test.
STEFFEN DISCOVERS
ALL-AMERICAN BACK
Tech Plebea38 Wost, Torli0
Dan lois ..............L. E............... Eekard
Cass ..................L.T..................Baker
Reid ..................L. G........... l loftatadt
Pradmore (C.) .. .C........ Paul Do May
Schnoll ..............R. G.......... Simmons
Bodde ................R.T. (0.1 Solilchting
Goodwin ..........R. E............... Blamier
Christoff .............I. B.............. Col I lor
Amu vi ................................................L. ll..................... Mad g/. nr
McCarthy ...........R. IT..................... Ross
Van Atta ...... P, B.......... Doarbook
'S'coro by qiuirt.or.i:
Carnegie Tech Ileb JU (I 7 J318
Substitution!!...Ilowori. for Ifold,
Rogers for Daniel, Rood for Bow
ers, Daniel for Rogers, Marohlclc for Eekard, Ohunko for 
Marchlk, Touchdowns  Christoff 
(!. Goals from touchdown--Christoff
2. RefereeBrown, Rochester. Um
pire.MIHIHS Springfield. Hoad lines
manFink, Springfield.
ALUMNI GATHERING
LARGE8T IN N. E.
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
prosont, but It just couldn't bo as tho 
team and party had to catch a train 
for the "Smoky City at 8:2*1, P. M. 
"Ross Hertz pepped tho mooting up 
to tho highest point by loading In 
yells. And to cap II. all, "Dear Old 
Tech was sung with a volume that 
surely must havo boon hoard In Sclionley Park.
Tho Alumni and studonts who had 
sense enough to register (no Insinua
tions whatever) wore: IT. M. Sinclair, 
W. PI. Norman, M. A. Marcus, J. G. 
Garley,, R. W. Arnold, R. B. Woolson,
G. Holmes, Louis Newman, G. K, Mat
ter, L. It. Borwn, R. L. Clifford, II. V. 
Bowers, O. Frazer, M. A. Drake, I-I. G. 
Selleck, Ross Hertz, T. C. Young and 
wife, E. M. Gretzler and (?), O. A. 
DIckman, D. D. Foster, C. C. English, 
J. K. Macalpine, W. A. Holt, C. Schroeder, II. C. Burrus, K. A. Spiller, Owen 
W. Jones, G. E. Finlay, R. S. Dornberger, Edward Saks, Geo. L. Burgess, 
A. J. Hanks and friend, J. M. Guter 
and wife, A. J. Matthews and ^vife, 
Carl F. Peters, Fred R. Orfinger, Setli 
Johnson, John M. Monstream, Marcus
A. Donohue, H. F. Simpson, S. A. 
Smith, B. J. Goldenson, Curtis C. Col
well and wife, L. J. Whitehead, R. K.
(Continued From Page One.) 
busted all speed laws'in tho State of 
Pennsylvania, and cannot be allowed 
to continue to run laose and menace 
tho safety of innocent pedestiians. 
IT ho is to maintain this terrible and 
ungodly rate of speed henceforth, I 
am directly to order that a license be 
purchased for him.
The consternation Avhlch followed 
this Bpooch would bp Impossible to re
cord. It was with tho groatost diflloluty that tho tnob could bo restrained 
from trampling on his prostrate body, 
and the loud howl of rage could bo 
beared for blocks. At length, how
ever, law and order had Its way and 
license numbor D. F. 2.8 was duly pur
chased and sowed Into tho jersey of 
tho fortunate grldder.
May Be Dark Pony.
What Steffen may do, with such a 
phenomenal spaedor Is dlllcult to say. 
Rumor hath It that he Is to be used 
against W. & J. to carry telegrams be
tween Little Washington and Pitts
burgh, equipped with his license ami 
a apodal loud Hounding claxon. in 
tho meantime, however, from all 
darkened corners of the gymnasium, 
at any hour of tho day or night, cornea 
laughter and not so subdued at that!
Fleming, Jr., J. 0. iShndors, A. J. 
Korin, Fred I. Smith, Jr., Alias It. I. 
Roberts, Fred L. O'Brien, Herman 
Ooldbory, W. W. Allen, W. M. Sholdon, Paul A, Slpporloy, L. Dish row, R.
B. Dunham, W. A. Fitzsimmons, Hubhard.
And yet, this banquet was only a 
most fitting climax to a. most wonder
ful week-end. The football team ac
quitted thomsolvos nobly. Tho crowd 
at tho Yale Bowl, led on by three 
regular student cheer loaders gave an 
account of Carnegie Tech cheering 
that will long bo remembered by Now 
Haven. The determination to soo this 
game by a small gang of students who 
wore financially ombarrassod was well 
testified by their appearance at tho 
game. No 0110 knows how they got 
there, but just Ilio samo, they doserve credit for being tliero.
In regard to treatment by the Yale 
authorities, nothing was left to bo de
sired, except possibly the game itself 
no doubt Carnegie Tech would havo 
onjoyod having tho game too. But, 
tho Bulldog was very nice in even 
thisplayed Rood clean football of 
tho type that a lqam enjoys playing 
against. In closing it might bo fitting 
to say that Yale makes a darn good 
host. Someday, it is hoped that Car
negie Tech will be able to reciprocato 
by acting as their hosts in Pittsburgh.
How aggravating it is to have a 
fountain pen or mechanical pencil 
balk just when you are ready to jot 
down a brilliant thought. Tell your 
troubles to Singer Pen & Gift Shop in 
Jenkins Arcade.
RESULTS OF TENNIS TOURNAMENT
First
Round
Second
Round
Semi- Finr.Is Winner 
Finals
Van Atta 
Talbott
Van Atta 
(0-3) (6-3)
Trechsel
Berno
Berno 
(0-2) ('0-0)
Kemery
Foster
Bowron 
II. N. Smith
Kemery
(Default)
I-I. N, Smith 
(0-0) (0-0)
II. N. Smith 
(0-2) (3-0) 
(10-8)
OConner
Rhodes
O'Conner 
(0-1) (0-3)
Marshall
Wilson
Marshall 
(0-2) (0-4)
Hauser
Moessner
Jones 
, Everhard
Hauser
(Default)
Everhard 
(6-3) (6-0)
Hauser 
(8-6) (6-4)

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 4. 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
ALUMNI PAGE
ALUMNI! SUPPORT 
YOUR ALMA MATER
INSURANCE FOR FACULTYH. S. Dornberger 
Dies Last August
THISTLE SENDS OUT CALL 
TO ALUMNI FOR SUPPORTCLAN NEWS
A now plan of insurance Cor fac
ulty members and administration olUoers bus recently been inaugurated 
here. Under this plan, which Is also 
used in about seventy other colleges, 
the insurance and pension fund of the 
faculty Is partly contributed by the in
stitution. and partly by the person 
who is insured. The Teachers Insur
ance and Annuity Association of 
America, which Is eiAlowed by the Car
negie Corporation for the Advance
ment of Teaching, bus perfected the 
plan.
The faculty member or adminis
tration officer who desires to be in
sured under the new plan of insur
ance deposits monthly with the Insur
ance companys representative any 
sum up to live per cent of Ills monthly 
salary. vThe Carnegie Foundation for 
the Advancement of Teaching depos
its an equal amount. At the age of 
sixty-five, the beneficiary of the in
surance policy receives one-half othls 
yearly salary and four hundred dol
lars,' which is paid by the association 
in monthly instalments! for the re
maining years of his normal life, in 
caso of death before the age of sixtyfive is reached, the benefits of the In
surance are paid to his relatives.
All of the present faculty members, 
except the new Instructors, are eligi
ble for the benefits of this insurance. 
The new faculty members must re
main here three years before they are 
allowod to be Insured. Any instruct
ors who are insured under this plan 
may transfer to another college where 
the same pla^i is used, without losing 
any of the benefits.
The 1923 Thistle will undoubtedly 
bo of more Interest to the Alumni of: 
Carnegie Tech than any previous 
number. Our football team cis gain
ing nation-wide recognition and the 
Thistle is adding twenty pages to 
the athletic section. There will be 
detailed accounts of the Yale, W. & 
J., Penn State and Notre Dame 
games, with action pictures. Those 
who are unable to see the games in 
person will liave a complete sum
mary of Carnegies ability on the 
gridiron. "When you are talking to 
a prospective student what could be 
a bigger talking point than showing 
them the years history of Carnegies 
athletes and athletic events.
Every Clan should have a copy.
The members of the local univesity dubs could help the school by 
presenting the book to the club li
brary1. The alumni of a school are 
helped by what the school is doing. 
The year book gives you this Infor
mation in the best possible manner.
The board expects that every alum
nus will subscribe. The support or 
the graduate to the undergraduate 
body could be expressed in no better 
way. If you do not live in Pittsburgh 
add twenty-five cents for postage, 
making a total cost of $4.75. Mail 
your check to the 1923 Thistle Board, 
care Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
Plans were discussed for the trip 
to New Haven to see the CarnegleYale game and for the dinner to fol
low the game. A large delegation 
was expected from this district.
The committee was keenly disap
pointed and decidedly embarrassed be
cause of the small attendance. Less 
than one-half of the expected number 
was present. An earnest request is 
made to the members to give the clan 
better support. Come to the meetings 
and help swell the crowd.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN TO
MEET OCTOBER NINTHA School Cannot Prosper 
Without the Support of 
its Alumni
Was Instructor in Architec
tural Const.
Every Alumnus in N. Y. Dis
trict Should AttendEvery alumnus in Youngstown, Co
lumbiana, Ellwood City, Lisbon, New 
Castle, Sharon, Struthers, and all 
others who can possibly arrange to 
be in Youngstown on October 9, are 
urged to be at the Youngstown Y. M. 
C. A. for a most important meeting 
of the Youngstown Clan. Substantial 
rumors concerning the future of Car
negie Tech are to be discussed and 
some important information relating 
thereto will be given out. M. R. Wal
ton and G. L. Tilbrook will be there 
to represent the Alumni Federation. 
Dinner will be served at 6:45 and the 
meeting will begin at 7:30.
We want every Carnegie Tech alum
nus in the Youngstown district to be 
present at the Youngstown Y. M. C. 
A., October 9, at 6:45 P. M.
It is with great sorrow that wo an
nounce the death of Mr. Herbert. Schuinau Dornberger. who luid boon at Carneglo Tech since 1912. 1-Ie was a grad
uate of Gettysburg College and also of 
Massachusetts Institute of. Technol
ogy. In reward for his valuable work 
here, he was appointed as head of con
struction in the Architectural Depart
ment of the College of Fine Arts, in 
which capacity he served until his 
untimely death, late In August of this 
summer.
Mr. Dornberger also was chief en
gineer for the Tuscon Steol Company, 
having been appointed to that posi
tion in 1920. He leaves a wife, a fath
er, and two brothers.
He was a fine instructor and was 
extremely popular with all who know 
hirav We are sure that the memory of 
his work will not be forgotten by any 
of those with whom he was associated.
September 27Wednesday
Yoengs Restaurant, 1607 Broadway, 
corner of 49th St., N. Y. City. 
September 30Saturday
Tech-Yale Football Gafne at Yale 
Bowl, New Haven, Conn.
Team Dinner, New Haven, Conn. 
October 24Tuesday 
Trianon Restaurant. 2S24 Broadway, 
near 109th St., N. Y. City.
November 20Monday 
De Jiannes Restaurant, 17 Central 
Ave., Newark, N. J.
December 14Thursday
Cafe Boulevard, Broadway at 41st 
St., New York City.
January 12Friday 
The White Rose, 981 Eighth Ave., at 
Columbus Circle, New York City. 
February 3Saturday 
Annual banquet and dance. Colo
nial Room, Hotel McAlpin, Broad
way at 34tli St., New York City. 
The above schedule of meetings in 
convenient card form has been mailed 
to all alumni in this district whose 
addresses are on file with the clan.
IE anyone has been missed, notify 
Geo. C. Bauer, 1050 E. Jersey street, 
Elizabeth, N. J., and the oversight 
will be corrected.
Visitors to New York are asked to 
plan visits so that they might attend 
the meetings. A pleasant evening is 
promised.
The next meeting is to be held at 
the Trianon Restaurant, 2824 Broad
way, near 109th street, at 6:30 p. m., 
Tuesday. October 24th.
Arrangements are being made for 
an excellent meal and elaborate en
tertainment of dancing and music.
It is imperative that a large num
ber attend as otherwise those in 
charge of this event will be severely 
handicapped because of their promise 
to the restaurant.
This year Is going to mean a great 
deal in the history of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. Are you going 
to have a part in making that his
tory? Considering its youth, Carno- \ 
gle Tech has produced remarkable 
results. We are justly proud of the 
rogress that has been made but we 
have only started. We must con
tinue to grow and develop.
Give us the opportunity and your 
co-operation and the results achieved 
in the next few years will be enor
mous.
Do you realize:
1. The urgent need for your sup
port?
2. Wliat it means to you what the 
future status and polley of C. I. T. 
are to be?
3. The many ways In which you 
can help.
Good intentions are easly express
ed but they dont clear your con
science when you have a duty to per
form.
We want to know that we can call 
upon you for your mc^-al support in 
our time of need.
Problems concerning tlio future 
status of the Institution are to bo 
brought up for solution. The nature 
of these problems Indicate what a 
critical period In the life of our Alma 
Mater this is. Wo want to tell you 
just what Is In store for Carnegie 
Tech and to keep you informed on 
the progress of our efforts to build 
a greater Institution of learning.
We can tell you dll tills only 
through the Carnegie Tartan and the 
C. I. T. Alumnus and wo can send 
you these regularly only after you have 
paid your alumni dues of $2.02 por 
year. Make checks payable to G. 
L. Tilbrook. Treasurer. Got. In active 
touch with the iClan noarost you.
To all alumni in ttio Pittsburgh 
district: An Initiation fee of $2.00
ontltles you to all the privileges of 
momborshlp in the Pittsburgh Clan. 
Make all , ebooks payable to Pitts
burgh Clan, A. J. Hynd, Treasurer.
SUGGESTIONS AND NEWS
ASKED FROM ALL CLANS
What preparations have you made 
to do your part for C. I. T. this year?
Have you had your first meeting? 
If 30, who are your new officers and 
when is your next meeting to be held?
Please send in your current list cf 
members and their latest addresses.
Keep in close touch with the home 
office. We can be of assistance to 
each other, and any suggestion you. 
can offer will be appreciated.
Which clan will offer the best sug
gestion on the organization of the 
various clans into a more compact 
body?
NEW YORK CLAN CALLS
FOR BETTER SUPPORT
The New York Clan started the 
season with an excellent dinner at 
Youngs Restaurant, Broadway and 
49th street, on Wednesday evening, 
September 24th. Dancing was a fea
ture of the evening.
STUDENTS INVITED TO
ATTEND CHURCH SERVICES
The Oakland Methodist Church and 
tlio Oakland Community House are of
fering special services to the collego 
students of tlio Oakland district. The 
Oakland Community House has for its 
motto "A homo away from home, and 
many Carnegie Tech men and women 
are taking advantage of its privileges. 
Carnegie Tech men and women are 
cordially invited to drop In at any 
time and visit the liouso, which is lo
cated at the corner of Forbes and 
Boquet streets. The Vagabond Club, 
an organization of Carnogio and Pitt 
students, has some vory interesting 
meetings every Sunday evening at 
5:30.
On Sunday, October 8, Dr. Robert 
I'. Wilder, traveling secretary of the 
Student Volunteer Movoinont will ad
dress a student mooting In tlio church 
auditorium. Tlio mooting will take 
place at 7:4.'. p. m. Dr. Wilders 
speech should provo to be of groat 
iuterost as ho has a wealth of mater
ial to draw from, having mado'a speak
ing tour of southern Europe In tin In
terest of tho World Christian Student 
Fodoratlon and having Jirnt returned 
from :i similar tour of, Japan. AH col
lego students aro cordially Invited to 
attend this meeting. Dr. Wilder will 
also malt i a short nddross at the Vag
abond Club mooting preceding tho 
main tall.
CLAN DIRECTORY
New Book Published as 
Aid to Technical Students
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, R. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, Mary Wight, Harris Hall, Deaconess Road.
BUFFALOSecretary, W. H. Rieger, Sizer Forge Company.
CHICAGOSecretary, J. J. Kennedy, 3748 Wright-wood Avenue.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, Merten G. Kingsley, .17817 Cannon Ave.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, Ii. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co.
ERIESecretaiy, H. A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Street.
HARRISBURGSecretaiy, Ritchie Lawrie, 206 Market Street.
HARTFORDSecretary, L. M. Bloch, 304 Garden Avenue.
HUNTINGTON]Secretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Spcond St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretaiy, Mrs. Inez Peacock Pille, 865 East 
Fifty-fhst Street, Los Angeles, California.
MONONGAI-IELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKSecretaiy, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckalioe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, W. Ii. Sands, Bank of Commerce Building.
PHILADELPHIAPresident, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company of Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building. x
WASHINGTONSecretary, Herbert W. Haller, 450 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65. East Earl Avenue.
M. M. Clan Secretarj', Elizabeth Stevenson, 722 Bryson Street.
W A T Cli THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
By James K. Matter.
For the benefit of those who didnt 
see the Yale game we want to explain 
about Jimmie Robertson. Ysee, Jim
mie is temperamental. A little stunt 
like twisting the Ell Bulldog's tall 
for a twenty-yard gain aint a thing In 
his young life; but when It comes to 
catching puntswe said when it 
comes to catching punts.
J. W. Batman, former Secretary-Treasurer of the Pittsburgh 
Clan is now located In Cincinna
ti with the Johns-Manville Com
pany. He may he reached at 
282 West Oak Street, Ludlow, 
Ky.
Thats different.
Fr instance, last year at the W. Si 
.T. game Jimmie decided to make love 
to a couple of punts. Ho just decided 
and then at the last minute lie got 
to thinking of tho illogical use of the 
Greek participle or mebbe iie remem
bered the time when ho was a Curtlinglnlan Slave and thrust out hla hands 
crying wildlyNay, nay, Caosar, Old 
Kid; 1 rofuse to part my hair In tho 
middle.
SECOND MEETING PHYSICS
COLLOQUIUM HELD FRIDAY
GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO BE
RALLY FOR W. & J. GAME
Bettor to Fight Sad Adverno Fato.
When affliction thunders oyer our 
roofs, to hide our brads and run Into 
our graves shows us no men, but 
makes us fortune's slavos.Ben Jonnon.
Continued From Page One) 
and Women and then secure the per
mission of the Social Committee of 
the Student Council. Blanks on which 
to make application for permission 
can be obtained at tho Deans offices.
And about then
The ball came alongtook a onocushion bank off of Jlnumios hands 
and sprazzed down tlio field In all tho 
joyous abandon of unconfined glee. 
Now we understand that tills Is tem
perament, but the othor teams dont, 
and they most generally have a man 
sticking around who picks up tlio ball.
Yale did it so many times on Sutur 
day wo cant remember tho numbor
KILTS SUGGESTED FOR
ENTIRE CARNEGIE BANDWo lost both games.
Not that that matters, but wed like 
to suggest, Mr. Steffen, that our heart 
alnt what It used to be. It cant stand 
many more shocks! When wo play 
W. & J. don't you .reckon our friend 
Jimmie ought to be equipped with a 
couple deep sea fishing nets or some 
such vest pocket tool.
107Flawosr
Lasts
On Fifth avenue up in the forties 
we notice that the offspring from 
Greenwich Village do their spooning 
excuse usdo their snuggle-pupping 
right out on the stone benches on the 
sidewalks. They smoke and every
thing that regular ladies do. The big 
city people pass by and are not inter
ested enough to turn and look em 
over. Being small town boys we had 
to show our bringings-up by gaping.
This is youat college
SEEKING a symbolic figure to represent Knowl
edge, let us turn away from the muses of 
antiquity and the be-capped and be-gowned 
youth of our own day.
How7 about the Football Player Tackling a 
Dummy? Isnt he typical of everything you do 
in these four years?
You are the Football-Player. The dummy is 
every knotty problem you tackle, every effort 
to earn your way through, every examination, 
every campus activity.
Tackle the dummy hard, and youll be ready 
 for even bigger tests in the game of business or 
professional life.
Do not say about this symbol, How clever, 
and let it go at that. It is worth nothing unless 
it reminds you to get the spirit of the Tackier 
into your work.
By his earnestness he seems to feel the thrill 
of combat. With set jaws and muscles tense he 
plunges at the dummy. For him it is alive, and 
the practice is a means to win the game.
If you intend to help score touchdowns after 
college, here is a man to measure up to.
86222222222222222222222222222222222262L222a 
H Compliments 1
Over there, too
The young ladies are indulging in 
a strange fad. First they go a week 
without washing their faces. That 
leaves a nice dirty neck. And then 
they scissor off the top of their waists 
and deduct the sleeves. This leaves 
the entire arm and shoulder bare. 
Then put put a fur piece around their 
necks in such a manner that we have 
a view of skin above and belowsort 
of a between wind and water effect.
College Man
M. M. D. FACULTY RECEPTIONSWEATER COATS
SWEATERS JERSEYS(Continued From Page One.) 
nomlcs; Miss Mary V. Bishoff, in
structor, Secretarial Studies; Ray
mond W. Foery, instructor, Accounts; 
Miss Gertrude Baton, assistant In
structor in Science.Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Proflto....................$300,000.00
Depooitn, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
8AFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
TAILOR MADE
CAPS
Some of these bare shoulders aint 
so bad, while some of the others
SHIRTS
TYSON GORDON ROTARY 
(An Arrow)
y Published in \
the interest of Elec
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what
ever helps the 
V Industry.
It gives a man an Idea of whether 
his sweetie can bat .400 with a roll
ing pin or notrENUS
PENCILS
UNDERWEAR
We Are Exclusive Oakland 
DealersBut whatlnell they're going to do 
with those bare arms when tho snow 
comes alongk Luftit HOWHC Qtulilif 
/wir J in lilt trtlUl
TPOR tlio Htudi:nt or prof., tins 
J- fliiperb V ION US out-rmilu 
idi for pcrfcct pencil work. 
17 black degree3 copying. 
American Lead 
IVncil Co.
220 Filil Ave.Nnw York
We'll never tell you,
Kjenosha-KJbsed-Krotch. Union Suita
ATHLETIC MEDIUM HEAVY
AL IRWIN ELECTED PRES.
OF INDUSTRIAL ASSEMBLYGO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
sembly adjourned to give the' mem
bers of the various classes an oppor
tunity to take part in special elec
tions.
The following men were elected to 
the various offices; President of As
sembly, A1 Irwin; Representative to 
Student Council, Roger Marshall.
Since 1869 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
OAKLAND'S MEN'S STORE
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater.
WrlUi ior booklet on p./.wi Pencil and Vm;il EVBItrOIHTED Mechanical I'cnclbCor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.Number 22 of a series
