I
FOOTBALL DANCE 
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 11 
UNION 8 P.
START SAVING 
YOUR PENNIES 
NOW
I_____________________
VOL. XIX No. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1924
Y.M.C.A. BEGINS 
ANNUAL DRIVE 
AT NOON TODAY
Campaign Will Raise $3,000 
By Personal Canvass of En
tire Student Body During 
Rest of Week
AIDES MEET MONDAY
What has been accomplished by 
this organization in the last few 
years is a great contribution to the 
progress of the Institute of Tech
nology, said Dr. Baker in his hearty 
endorsement of the local Y. M. C. 
A. as it starts its drive today.
And with this splendid testimony 
as a backing, 300 students, headed 
by the general committee of Dick 
Reed, Cal Lundquist, H. P. Rassbach 
and A. S. r Andrews, will represent 
the local Y in a person to person 
campaign for financial support to the 
amoutit of $3,000.
All are! familiar with the activities 
of the "Y and with the personal 
co-operation it has always extended 
to the students and. faculty. They 
range aW the way from inter-fratern
ity basket ball to the visiting of Car
negie students in the various hos
pitals, touching every department of 
student life.
The committee in charge has 
drawn up extensive plans for what 
is expected to. be one of the most 
successful 'student campaigns yet 
launched on the campus. The 300 
workers are composed of school lead
ers, class leaders, section leaders and 
numerous aides. The drive has been 
so well organized that it is thought 
that with every man doing his bit, 
the quota will be reached before the 
end of the week.
On Monday evening, October G, 
the students .aiding in the campaign 
will be guests at a dinner in the 
Carnegie Commons. At this dinner 
the plans wilii be discussed, and it 
is probable that the chairman of the 
committees will say a few words 
to their chargee.
The leaders in the various schools 
are:
College of Fine ArtsKredel, 
Frost, Schukart, Sloan, Djiniel.
Colleg-e ot- .Engineering  Buck 
James, J. M. O'Connor, Shepherd.
College of IndustriesW. M. Gib
son, J. M. Goss, Frees, Perdue, 
Sehen ck.
Shilling Staff Makes 
Plans For Big Year
Womens Publication Pre
pares For Opening Issue
This is going to be a big year for 
the Sliilling. The staff;is as yet ready 
to make no formal announcement of 
its plans, but some of the members 
have let slip a few hints .at. some 
mighty interesting innovations they 
are pfenning.
This literary magazine of'Carnegie 
is managed entirely by the women, 
but it is planned to interest the men, 
as well, and the men are invited to 
contribute to its pages. A great 
many people seem to think a technic
al school attracts . only people, who 
are quite uninterested in the fine, arts.
Of course we know better than 
that. "We know that there are a great 
many highly cultured people here, 
keenly appreciative of literature, art, 
and music. We know , that these peo
ple are not confined to the college 
especially devoted to_the teaching of 
the arts. In a measure the Shilling 
helps to demonstrate this truth.
To be sure the literary endeavors 
of college folk are usually far from 
being great literature. But so are 
most of the short stories in most 
other magazines. And then, just sup
pose Carnegie should develop a gen
ius. Thanatopsis" was written when 
the author was only nineteen, wasn't 
it? Well, what ii -Obie Newman or 
somebody should produce a master 
piece. Youd want to know about it, 
wouldnt you?
Buy a Shilling.
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB WILL
MEET AT HEINZ HOUSE
A meeting of the Cosmopolitan 
Club will be held at the Heinz House 
on Friday, October 10, at S p. m. 
The committee extends its cordial 
imitation to all the old members as 
also to the new foreign students and 
those who are interested in the 
work of the Cosmopolitan Club. Dr. 
X. A. N. Cleven is expected to ad
dress the meeting.
A good time is assured every one 
who attends.
THREE TRAINS FOR 
W.&J. OCTOBER 18
NAMES TO BE 
SUPPLIED FOR 
GIRLS DORMS
Each House Will Be Chris
tened and a Bronze Name 
Plate Attached With Ap
propriate Ceremonies
BOTANICAL TITLES
Specials to Carry Crowd to 
Little Washington2,500 
Passengers
On October IS three special trains 
are going to leave Pittsburgh for 
Washington, Pa., carrying on them 
2S00 Carnegie rooters. On that day 
the Skibo warriors go into their an
nual battle against .W. & J.s football 
machine. This is by far the most im
portant battle scheduled away from 
home. In fact it is one of the most, 
important on the whole schedule. In 
(he past three years this has been 
almost the same as a home game, be
cause every Carnegie man and wo
man has deserted Pittsburgh for a 
half day to see it. For the last three 
years our games with W. & J. have 
been played in Little Washington. 
However, judging from the number 
of rooters and the amount of spirit 
shown the average spectator would 
have thought that the game was be
ing played on our own field. That is 
the way we want it to be this year. 
We want to send so many rooters to 
Little Washington that the Presidents 
will not know whether they are at 
home or not. In fact we want su 
many that they will not know where 
they are or whether they are going 
or coming. Our slogan should be 
"On to Little Washington. If we 
go after it. in that manner we nre 
sure to bring home the bacon.
Four years ago W. & J.came here 
and after a grueling struggle went 
home with the short end of a 6-0 
score. The next year the score was 
W. & J. 14. Carnegie 0. The next, 
.year a 7-.0 victory, was in our grasp 
until Charley West, W. & J. lialfback, 
caught a lucky forward pass and ran 
sixty yards for n touchdown the last 
two minutes of the game. -Last, year 
as most of us know, we were defeat
ed, 9-7, after a hard battle. That 
means that in the last four years W. 
& J. has scored three victories to our 
one. Let us even up tho count this 
year.
The student council, has placed Phil 
Rassback in charge of all football 
(Continued on Page Three)
After a year of planning and dis
cussion a definite program has been 
forimllated for the / naming of the 
girls dormitories. Tho need of de
scriptive titles rather than numbers j 
has long been felt, though admitted
ly, referring to 5072 Forbes, located 
that dorm much more definitely than 
The Willows of "The Pines" ever 
will.
The plan was originated last fall 
and was heartily sponsored by The 
Tartan. Miss Brown and Dr. Baker 
at that time drew up a tentative 
program in which it was decided to 
place a bronze plate upon each door 
bearing the name accorded to that 
house. At first difficulty was ex
perienced in finding suitable cogno
mens for the various dwelling's but 
now tho suggestion to name them 
trees has been adopted.
A pattern for the same plates has 
been designed by Mr. Dosey who 
will also superintend the making of 
the casting. The design consists of 
a burning oil lamp superimposed up
on a background bearing a largo 
thistle. ,
The base of the lamp rests upon 
a horizontal bar which has the 
name of the dorm Inscribed' upon 
it. The castings, as produced by Mr. 
Dosey will be painted an appropriate 
color which, however, has not yet 
been decided upon. All those details 
have not yet been formally accepted 
but are more than vaguo dreams in
asmuch as three sample name plates 
are now in Dean Browns hands for 
consideration.
(Continued on Page Three)
REV. DANIEL L. MARSH WILL
SPEAK AT COMING CHAPEL
Rev. Daniel L. Marsh, D. D.. of 
tho Smith field Street Methodist 
Church, will be the speaker at the 
chapel service on Thursday. October
9. in the Little Theater. Dr. Marsh 
is certain to make an interesting 
talk and it is hoped that the students 
will turn out to make the# service 
truly successful.
This year the services ' are under 
the auspices of the Y. W. C. A. and 
the Y. M. C. A Girls- have always 
been welcome at the chapel* exercis
es, but this year their support is 
especially desired as- the Y. W. C. A. 
is now taking part in assisting with 
the services.
SCHEDULE FOR USE 
OF GYM OUTLINED
Sload Resigns From 
Clubs Managership
First Tenors-Second Basses 
Are Reported Scarce
Third Football Dance 
Will be Held in Union
Techsons' Orchestra Will Play 
At Popular Soiree
RECEPTION TO BE HELD 
BY LUTHERANS FRIDAY
The Lutheran Student -Club has 
postponed its reception for all new 
and old students until this Friday 
evening.
Elaborate preparations have been 
made for accommodating a large 
crowd. Students from Pitt aud P. 
C. W. will mingle with those from 
Carnegie at the dance and the 
games which are to precede the re-, 
freshments.
The place for this merrymaking 
will be the Lutheran Student House, 
one block from the Bellefield Baptist 
Church, down toward Craig street.
Alfl interested are invited to accept 
this opportunity of getting better ac
quainted.
C. H. .lames announces that the 
third football dance of the year will 
be held in the Union Saturday night, 
with the same Techsons Orchestra 
whose offerings Have been so enthu
siastically received at the previous 
dances again providing the music.
As usual, the regulation requiring 
one of each couple to present a reg
istration card for admittance will be 
in force. The restriction assures 
patrons of the presence of an old 
Carnegie crowd. The hours will be 
from nine to twelve, and the assess
ment,' $1.25.
The football dances this year have 
proved popular and profitable. The 
Athletic Association reaps whatever 
financial benefit may 'accrue. The 
affairs have been well managed, and 
the music has been good. These j 
.characteristics promise to keep' the 
Crowds as large as the first two 
dances. The fraternity rushing sea-j 
son is now over, and many fratern
ity men and Plebes who were pre-! 
vented from attending heretofore be
cause of smokers and house dances j 
will be in evidence Saturday night, j
Football dances have become an j 
institution at Carnegie. They are j 
one of Student Councils most suc.- 
qessful enterprises, comparing fa
vorably with Poverty Day Campus 
Week in volume of student support. 
This years dances show an increase 
in that support over even the wellattended affairs of twelve months 
ago.
DR. BAKER AT RENSSELAER
POLYTECHNIC CENTENNIAL
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president, 
will represent Carnegie ut the Cen
tennial Celebration of Rensselaer 
Polytechnic Institute at Troy, N. Y., 
today and tomorrow. An elaborate 
program of exercises has been ar
ranged, the speakers to include many 
prominent educators and men of af
fairs.
Professor Thomas Wood Stevens, 
former head of the Department of 
Drama, at Carnegie Tech, is the au
thor and director of a pageant to be 
feature of the program each evening, 
on the Athletic Field. The subject of 
the pageant will be Scenes from the 
History of the School".
Misfortune 1ms ruined the hopes of 
the Musical Clubs temporarily. Hof* 
for Sload, who was'unanimously made 
Manager of the Clubs at the meeting 
last spring, has found it impossible 
to carry on his duties in that capac
ity.
It has been announced by President 
Lundquist that Manager Sload has 
tendered his resignation from this of
fice, and that the resignation had to 
be accepted under penalty of death'. 
Accordingly tho Clubs, are manager* 
less at present. When tho tears had 
dried away, the old members got their 
heads together, and talked the matter 
over as to the prospects for the new 
man to fill the shoes of Ex-Manager 
Sload. Inasmuch as the filling of the 
shoes is quite a task the selection 
has been delayed. Rumors have cer
tain members of the Clubs eligible 
for the position, but these are more 
rumors and cannot be printed, for 
that would go against the policy of 
Ye Editor.
The rehearsal last Sunday was car
ried on as well as could be expected 
after such a great .catastrophe had 
befallen the clubs, and Director John
son conducted the rehearsal without 
a visual evidence of his sorrowal
though the members could detect the 
pathos in his soul. The new members 
of the clubs are a promising lot. and 
they came out ready to give their all 
for the organization. The season 
promises to be a great and glorious 
one aside from the fact that there is 
no head for the outfits.
The Mandolin club has a full sym
phony orchestra enrollment, and lacks 
only the tympani. -If any member of 
the student body can play these in
struments, he is'welcome.
The great cry of the Glee club is 
more first tenors, but as this was the 
cry last year it .has come to be more 
or less of a matter of something to 
cry for. First tenors just dont exist.
(Continued on Page Three)
NEWMAN CLUB TO HOLD 
FRESHMAN RECEPTION
The Newman Club will hold its 
annual Freshman reception at the 
Duquesne Council House of the K. 
of C., Fifth and Bellefield avenues, 
Wednesday evening, October lf>. All 
Catholic students of Carnegie are 
invited to attend. There will be no 
assessment.
A. good orchestra, has been 'engaged 
for the occasion, and the social chair
man promises refreshments as well. 
Guests will be provided with, .taiga as 
they enter upon which they may in
scribe their names and schools. The 
tags will then;serve as identification 
badges. All the dances will be tag 
dances. Xo introduction is required 
before a man may cut in on a dance. 
The new men are thus given oppor
tunity to make acquaintances.
(Continued on Page Three.)
Underclassmen Must Use 
Gym Scheduled Hours, 
Says Dr. Esquerre
Tlio new gymnasium has been of
ficially opened. There is a clamor
ing mob pounding upon its doors 
anxious to make use of its athletic 
facilities.
In order to facilitate conditions 
and have a smooth running order, 
Dr. Esquerre announces the follow
ing tentative program. The Fresh
men and Sophomores must follow 
their regular schedules if they want 
to use the gym and swimming pool. 
All Upperclassmen and special stu
dents wil'l be allowed in the gym 
during the following hours: From
4:lfi to 6 from Monday to Friday, 
inclusive, they may use the gym and 
tho showers. They may use the .cor
rection room, with apparatus, tho 
wrestling and boxing room, and tho 
handball court anytime they are not 
in use by classes or the faculty.
Now for tho uppermost question 
which is in every students mind: 
When may we use the pool? It 
has been decreed that the Froshmon 
and Sophomores must uso the pool 
during their scheduled hours.- All 
other men students may uso tho pool 
from 11: 50 to 1:30, and from f. to (! 
on Monday; from 5 to (! on Wednes
day, from 0:30 to 10:30, from 11:30 
to 12:30, from 1:30 to 2:30, mid 
from, f> - to (i on Friday, and from .10 
to 12 on Saturday.
Classes in swimming for beginners 
will bo conducted under a compe
tent instructor Saturday mornings 
from 9 to 10. That is all for the 
men.
All day Tuesday and Thursday is 
reserved for women students, womon 
members of the faculty, and women 
of the administration.
These are just tentative plans. Dr. 
Esquerre, the head of the Depart
ment of Student Health will endeav
or to arrango plans no that every
body may be accommodated1* with 
satisfaction.
Football Squad Gets 
New Dressing Rooms
Commodious Quarters Pro
vided Under M. M. Bldg.
Since the old field house lias been 
remodeled and converted into a din
ing room for women tlio football 
squad has been, forced to seek refuge 
elsewhere. This has been well taken 
care of by the quarters which were 
built for them under the .Margaret 
Morrison building. The new quarters 
are very well lighted, heated and ven
tilated. They have' concrete floors 
throughout. Altogether the space 
available has been divided into abou 
a dozen room. These include two 
shower rooms, two lavatories, sev
eral rooms for storing equipment, 
olfice rooms, and Dean Munhalls 
training rooms. After serving for so 
many years in the inadequate field 
house Bert is right well pleased to be 
in better quarters.
The new gym had been considered 
for the training rooms but it was de
cided that it would be better to be 
closer to the field. In the present 
location one is on the field as soon 
as he steps out of Berts office.
MID-WEST CLUB TO MEET
SUNDAY IN Y CLUB ROOM
On Sunday, October 12, the MidWest Club will -hola their first meet
ing. of the year, in Room 124-C, In
dustries, Y. M. C. A. dub room.
This organization is made up of 
students west of the State of Ohio 
and north of the Mason and Dixon 
line.
It. Is important that all new men 
and women remember the time and 
place, for one will find many people 
from this great section and perhaps 
some from your own homo state.
Dont forget, Sunday, October 12, 
Y. M. C. A. club room, 124-C, Indus
tries, 4:30 p. m.
WHITEHEAD EPISCOPAL CLUB
The first meeting of! the Whitehead 
Episcopal Club last Sunday evening, 
was successful. Free lunch was 
served and Dr. Budlong and Dr. 
Meade gave short talks, after which 
a social time was enjoyed. It in 
hoped that all Episcopalians will get 
in touch with the club activities.
GEN. ASSEMBLY 
AT MUSIC HALL 
NEXT TUESDAY
POSITIONS ON BUSINESS
STAFF OF TARTON OPEN
Variety of Entertainment to; 
Be PresentedPep Meeting 
to Work Up Enthusiasm 
For Wash-JefFGame Oct. 18
Underclassmen and Plebos uro givon tho opportunity to got in un activ* 
ity whieh oifors groat advuncoment 
to widisawako moti bv bocoming 
membOrs of tho business staff. The 
worlc is not hard and it is ono of 
th major aetivities 011 tho cauipus. 
Meu who aro intorosted may cali at 
The Tartan office, Room G, Industries 
Building.
CITES ELECT NEW
THIEL UNABLE 
TO STOP PLAID; 
SCORE IS 22-0
Tartans Start Scoring Soon 
After Opening of Game 
Carnegie Machine Makes 
Field Goal First Quarler
NO SPEAKER ENGAGED OFFICERS FOR YEAR BEEDE BASTIAN STAR
The next general assembly is to be j 
hold in Carnegie Music Hall, Tuesday, j 
October 1*1. The program includes a j 
variety of entertainment and a pep I 
meeting. Contrary to the custom of | 
the past there will be no speaker. 
The Student Council has adopted a j 
plan of having speakers at alternate I 
assemblies, and it will institute this j 
arrangement next Tuesday.
A diversified program has been ar-1 
ranged by Ohio Newman, who is in 
charge of the entertainment. It in
cludes a dance, several song numbers, 
and an orchestra.
Ann Luria and Warren Kimball, 
members of the dramatic department 
will presont a fancy dance. This pair 
will bo romei\ibered by all upperclass
men who saw them presont their Ar
gentine tango at tHo Campus Week 
vaudeville show laist May.
The Plobes will havo their first, op
portunity of hearing Ohio Newman 
sing some Southern songs in his inim
itable manner. Ohio needs no intro
duction to upperclassmen. Ho will 
bo accompanied by Grace Brodenik 
at tho piano, and Rod Van Atta play
ing tho banjo.
Ohio is attempting to engage an 
orchestra as part of tho program but 
ho has not procured ono at this dato. 
It will possibly bo tho Collegiate Imps. 
Nuf Cod!
Tho final numbor Will bo sovoral 
songs by Miss Maggio of tho Music 
Department.
A pop mooting in charge of head 
cheer loader Al Minotti will wind 
up the assembly. This mooting is a 
(Con tin nod on Pago Throo.)
Girls Glee Club Try
outs Held Thursday
Tea Given in Recreation Hall 
Opens Social Season
More Juniors and Seniors Are! 
Needed to Increase En
rollment
Try-outs for tho Girls Glee Club 
woro held Thursday, October 2, at 
4:30, In tho Assembly Hall of Iho 
Margaret Morrison/ Building. All new 
girls, especially those al. all Intoi-j 
ostod in mu file, aro urged to cornu 
and try out for membership. It lu; 
hoped that a large number of can
didates will avail themaolvoa of this 
opportunity ol joining one of tho 
schools best musical' organizations.
The Gloe Club holdi Its first social 
event of the year on Monday, Sepleinbov 20. In the Kocroatlon Hull 
of the Margaret Morrison Building. 
All old members and all new girls 
were invited to a tea, at which Miss 
Brown poured. The members gave 
ait Interesting program for the en
tertainment of their guests. Elenor 
Slenson and Ki/.zie Murdock, both 
from Arts School, and! Mary Quick, 
of Margaret Morrison, sung solos; 
Miss Quick was accompanied on tho 
piano by Miss Helen Wilson, also 
of Margaret Morrison. Dancing and 
refreshments brought the afternoon 
to a close.
An interesting winter's work has 
been arranged for the club, and its 
members feel sure this will bo one 
of the most' successful seasons they 
have ever had. Al Johnson, who is 
director of the Boys' Glee Club, is 
director or the Girls Club also, and 
the two clubs are planning to work 
together this year. It has already 
been decided that the home concert 
will be given by the combined 
clubs, and a great deal of enthusi
asm and success are expected to re
sult from the plan.
'The officers of the Girl Glee 
Club organisation for the year 1024- 
25 are as follows: President, Vir
ginia Seibert;- vice president, Dorothy 
We^er* secretary and treasurer, 
Charlotte Durie; librarian, Dorothy 
Stien; manager, Amy Glassford, and 
assistant manager, Mary Quick.
At tho organization meeting of tho 
Carnegie Cites, held in the Langley 
Lab last Thursday, officers' for the 
present year wore elected. Herb 
Polesie is the new prosidciit,. Herb 
Bowers is tho vice president, F. L. 
Wagner, treasurer, and A. E. Mollor, 
secretary.
Firteen men were appointed squad 
leaders with authority to issue mem
bership in the new organization.
The men Cites hope to have throe 
hundred Juniors and Seniors en
rolled by tho time of the W. & J. 
game.
Distinctive apparel for tho men 
Cites has not yet boon definitely docidod upon and the girl Cites are de
ciding upon theirs this week.
The girl Cites, lod by Emma Heil
man, have alroady enrolled two hun
dred members. They marched in a 
body to tho Theil gamo, as did tho 
men Cites, and helped a great deal in 
organizing the cheering,
For tho W. & J. game tho Cites will 
bo thoroughly organized, will havo 
tholr distinctive bit of apparel, and 
will bo ready to aid the Carnegie 
cheer loaders In their program. The 
Cites will probably ride in their own 
coaches to tho W. & .1. game.
The. ehooro loaders havo boon out
fitted in snappy new uniforms of 
white sweaters emblazoned with scar
let- megaphones, white trousers with 
red sldo stripes, and red hats.
Special seats in tho cheering sec
tion will l)o reserved for the Cites at. 
all the games, Only Cites will be ad
mitted to this section and one must 
wear the Cites apparel lu order to bo 
with them lu this soctlon.
The Carnegie Song Book staff Is 
fostering this development of greater 
enthusiasm for old Carnegie and the 
co-operation of all who can help lu 
urgently needed. Every Junior aud 
Senior should be a member of the 
Cites. More organization in our 
cheoring and parades on foreign 
fields, as well as tit home, will do 
much toward spreading the fame of 
Carnoglo.
Student Directory to 
Be Put on Sale Soon
First Issue Will Be Sold at 
Cost of Publication
RASSBACH SELECTED TO 
MANAGE JRAIN TRIPS,
The Studont Council has approved 
the selection of Ph/i Rassbach to 
manage tho transportation of sl/u* 
dents to Little- Washington for the t 
W. K". J. game, and to State College ; 
for the Penn State game,
The special council committee, of, 
which Buck James Is chairman, sc-; 
lected Rassbach because of his work 
as assistant to C. N. Hollingsworth 
who managed the trips last year. 
Rassbach Is a Senior Metallurgical 
Engineer, S. A. E. and Dragon.
The matter of financing the send- j 
ing of the band to W. &* J. and I 
Penn State will) be taken up at a j 
later meeting.
An appropriation was made for 
the purchase of uniforms and equip- I 
ment for the cheer leaders.
The Carnegie Tech Student Direc
tory was Introduced to the student 
body through these columns last 
wook. If you didnt get the dope 
then, you had better get a hold of 
last weeks copy of the Carnegie Tar
tan and read the writeup. And dont 
fail to look for more information in 
the ensuing issues of this paper.
Reports from the men in charge of 
the work on the directory indicate 
that it Xvill surely appear on the cam
pus before this month passes by. Its 
appearance will be fittingly heralded 
by attractive signs on the bulletin 
boards so follow the bulletin boards 
for advance notices.
We are unable at this time to give 
out any information as to the prob
able selling price but of this we are 
certain, it will be sold at cost price 
and no profits will accrue. It is 
necessary to make a charge for tho 
directory on the first issue because 
of the fact that the . advertisements 
were insufficient to enable the staff 
to issue the book free. However, 
with an efficient business staff next 
year it is believed that the adverticements secured will onttble the 
staff to issue the directory free as is 
the case with tho Student Handbook.
H. A. SOUBRE TALKS
TO A. S. C. E. ON COST OF
MAKING CONCRETE
Mr, IT, A. Sourbrey, a graduate of 
the University of Copenhagen, now 
chief engineer of tho Mollon-Sluar!. 
Company, gavo an address to the 
members of the Student Chapter of 
the American Society of Civil Engi
neers on Wednesday, October 1st, rel
ative to "The cost of a cubic yard (if 
concrete."
Mr. Sourbrey stated that the cost 
of the actual ingredients of concrete,
I.e., coment, sand, aggregate, and wa
ter, wnti considerably less than tho 
sum of the other costs that must be 
added, such as overhead, labor and 
forms expense. He also pointed out 
the increased co^t of forms for con
crete laid in thin slabs and the high, 
cost of installing a big plant for a 
email job.
Starting out with a rush that 
brought the spectators to tlioir feet,. 
Carnegie Tech completely swamped 
Thiel last Saturday in the Plaid 
Bowl.
From the first kickoff it was plain 
to be seen that Thiel had no chance 
of stopping the fast Skibo backs. 
Tech was a much better team than 
the one which defeated Dayton the 
previous Saturday. Its backs were 
Sotting away faster, its forwards 
were charging) harder and quicker., 
and plays worked with more preci
sion than before.
Carnegie won the toss and elected 
to kick. Bastian kickedoll' to Thiels 
ten-yard line, and tho ball was re
turned to the twenty-yard line. Thiol* 
was hone held for downs and were 
forced to kick. Carnegio with the 
ball In her position was invincible. 
Beede started the drive with a, 
plunge of seven yards off tackle. 
Mere Carnegie was peuaUzod live 
yards for offside, then came the 
longest1 run of the gamo.1 Bastian 
skirted loft end for 34 yards. The 
fieet-footod Ma.x outstepped several 
Yellow Jacket ladders and was final
ly forced out of bounds on tho.15 
yard line.
The alert Motor I recovered a fum
ble at this point and carrlod the 
I___Wh_ to tho Mercer countlan's fiveyard line. Newman lilt the lhm for 
first down and Bastlan made a suc
cessful thrust through tackle for the 
first touchdown hut missed tlio try 
for point. ^
This finished/ the ficorfnig for fho 
first  period, but the second qulortor 
was not very old before Bastian, 
with Newman holding the ball, made 
a beautiful placement kick from the 
35-yard lino. Tech's second touch
down camo in the second qiiarteialso. it was featured by the lino 
bucks of Beede and Newman. At ono 
time Beede carried the ball straight, 
(Continued on Page Throe.)
Dramats Preparing 
Season's First Play
Modern Middle Class England 
is Setting ol "Chains"
On October 10 the Department of 
Drama will present us the first pro
duction of this season Elizabeth 
Halter's play "Chain." Patrons of 
the Little Theater indy expect u 
production of great merit, one which 
attains the high standard maintainor), 
by this department.
Chains is a. drama ol moderli middie class life In England. It display 
tomowluit socialistic tendencies, hav
ing for Its motif the umavalllng strug
gle of a husband and wife against 
environment. In It the conflict be
tween ambition and tho blighting 
heritage of submission is strikingly 
j portrayed.
I Jack Daniels and. Janet Millls have 
| the roles of the young couple whose 
j problems constitute the moving lrn| pulse of tho play. Gene Blake as 
[  Maggie Massif," sister of the young 
wife, promises a performance of. 
groat excellence. Betsey Lindsey, 
playing the English flapper, and 
James Resly, as the man who finally 
wins In the struggle for freedom, will 
hold tiie interest of their audiences 
in their accustomed manner.
Other character parts are given to 
William Dickey, Harold Minor. Mary 
Power, Emerson Hall and Ben Weinblatt.
The first performance of "Chains"' 
will be given on Friday, October 10. 
There will be other perforances onSaturday, October 11, and. on each 
day of! the following week, except. 
Saturday.
ENGLISH PREMIERS SON 
VISITS CARNEGIE TECH
Macdonald and Hollis, two mem
bers of the Oxford debating team vis
ited Carnegio Tech last Friday after
noon, and were conducted around thecampus by Dr. Rlttman. They ex
pressed surprise at tho efficiency 
manifested In almost every detail, 
and carried away a fine Improsslon of 
Carnegie Toch, McDonald Is the sou 
of the Prime Minister of England, and 
as such adds another to tho IonK 
names of celebrities entertained on 
the campus.
Expressing a wish to see tho inside 
of an American fraternity, which 
tiiey had never seen, they wore con
ducted to tho Sigma Epsilon Phi 
house on the corner of Forbes and 
More wood. The members were con
siderably surprised on learning the 
identity of the distinguished guest, 
but managed to give him a good lino 
on typical fraternity.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1924
C^negielTar-tan
Published every wook by undergraduates of Uio Carnegie Insti tifio of; Dr. Griffess Head of 
Industrial Econ. Dept.
Entered in the Postnico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
FRED C. SMITH...............
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
..............................................................................Schonley 9122
P. D. ROSSINI
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
T. .f. DEMPSEY E, C. FRAZIER
Sara Mae Everett,
EDITORIAL STAFF
J>, A. Gardner, L. H. Harris, Harriet Merwln, 
A. F, Carson.
FRED T. PHELPS.........
MANAGING EDITOR
..............................................................................Schenley 9102
W. WINNING ....................
V. I>. SMITH......................
NEWS EDITOR8
................................................................................Schenley 9070
............................................................................Franklin 5547-.J
Johns Hopkins Man Successor
to Professor Keir
REPORTERS
Entello Garibaldi, Wilma Stinor, Caro! Foiglit, Almee Pharo,- 35. rs. 
Johnson, K. Fulmer, F. m. McClelland, c. A. Lunduulst, It. L. Lep por, M. 
irollHlJoad, W. Foncil, W. Senkus, D. K. MIi/ib.
A. 10. KltOOIl..................................................................ALIJMNI IVOVL.XV
Assistants. .ItOBtnary McCambrldge, Margurot Mollali, .1. M. atsbbe M. W. Gay
J. CHRISTOFF........................................................................................A'I'IILETIC EDITOR
Assistants......................................Rosemary McCambridgo, J. M, nsbbe 33, 13, Smith
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON-.................................................................................................Schonley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
N. C. WESER.....................................................................................................Schenley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
3). MOSKOVITZ......................................................................................................Hazel 1122
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, It. fi. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, Lee C. Osborn, ,1. 
M. Airgood, N. Alexander, J. L. Buerle, J. P. Strizak, Lol Snyder, A. Perreton, G. II. Carl.
The Editor-in-Chlef Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tlio maleo up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withhold if desired. All news items must bo ln the student 
post oiiice before 4:30 Thursduy.
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oflc 
1:20.
hoursDuily 12:30-
THE FIGHTS
There are poing to be endless discussion in regard to who was 
;it fault in the recent J.Mcbe-Soph fights at the entrance to the Col
lege of Bfflginecring. We will not discuss that;, the poiint is that there 
was a fight The Sophs have shown that they are on the job in the 
matter ol! enforcing regulations; too jealously perhaps, but they are 
on forcing them, and that is their job. The Plebes have shown that 
they have a fighting class and one which docs not permit any lib
erties to be taken with it.
The purpose of regulations is not to break the spirit .of a class 
but rather to encourage, that spirit by causing a bond of common 
behavior in the Freshman, class. Any man has the right to protest 
against regulations if he feels that they are infringing upon his 
personal liberty. Thai probably caused the rumpus. Those who 
came into it later were just upholding their class, which is tlio. pur
pose of having regulations. If, on the other hand, the lights were 
started as a protest against regulations as they stand, and were de
liberate attempts toievade them, nothing good can conic ol' it. There 
are Plebe regulations, and they will be enforced until such time as 
the student body decides to lift them, and if necessary, the whole 
student body will assist the Sophs in enforcing them.
Sophs, as long a# they are enforcing the regulations and not 
abusing their privileges have the whole school behind them.
Plebes, as Jong as thoy are protesting against abuses of the 
regulation, and not trying to evade them as a class, have I lie sympa
thy of the school with them.
Other rights are sure to occur, but so long as both classes play 
the game according to the rules, everything will be all right. But, 
if either class doesnt there, will be trouble, and plenty of it.
i STUDIES
Rushing season is over. Now is the time to settle down and get 
in some good licks at tho studies. There has been some excuse for 
?he past three weeks for students to neglect their work to a crtain 
extent on account ol! fraternity rushing but now that the worst in 
that line is over, there is no further excuse for not starting to work. 
This is no sermon. l')very man and woman here knows that if tho 
work is not done, out they go. I likewise everyone knows just how 
much they can let things slide and yet make out. We can't toll you 
your business in that line. This is a reminder that there are other 
things to consider beside the number of new pledge, and hint gent
ly that this is the time to stari something else, (lood luck.
Happened to run uoroim Home of 
bur un-graduato actors in New York 
c bln tiummer. They fioom to be an 
much fascinated by the drama om an 
engineer in by tho women, Mary 
liikurkay and Chick McCarthy are re
hearsing with Joseph S'ohildkrunt In 
"Tlio Firebrand". Dorothy Donovan 
is dancing in "Artists and Modal", 
which Is at the Alvin till wook, Nick 
lloolTor is playing ln "Tho Goose 
Hang High, probably due in Pitts
burgh.* this Boason. Paul McGrath is 
touring Canada with a company, the 
name of wliicji I havo forgotten. Mat
thew Smith lias the role of Harold
Parmrtloe in Olonn I lantern company 
playing "Merton of tiuv Movie", 10(1* 
die Dryburgh, Joseph Lazarus, Aus
tin Coughlin, and Vincent OMalley 
are doing work connected with tlio 
theater from which they expect to 
graduate to an actor pari, within a 
short time.
There are two kinds of girls In thin 
world, tlioSe whom the boys like, and 
those who dont believe in this run
ning around. Tho two kinds of fel
lows are those who like the girls, and 
those who dont have to have some
one always telling them lies about 
how clever they dance. And then 
there are the ones who are married, 
but they might just as well he dead. 
Tho difference between death and 
marriage is that when you die, its all 
over.
New Gym Directory
FIRST FLOOR
Miss Ida H. Spurrier, Instr. of Physical Education.......................Room 101
Miss Louise R. Russell, Instr. of Physical Education..................Room 101
Mlse K. M. Brainard, Secretary to Grad. Mgr...............................Room 102
Clarence Overend, Graduate Manager.................................................Room 102
H. C. Irwin, Assistant Graduate Manager........................................Room 102
SECOND FLOOR
Dr. Esther L. Blair, Physician for Women.........................................Room 200
Dr. William L. Marks, Resident Physician..................................Room 203
Edmund Esquerre, Head Dept. Student Health...........................Room 202
F. W. Moses, Instr., Physical Education.............................................Room 204
Arnold F. Fink, Instr., Physical Education......................................Room 204
Christian Beuheman, Instr. Physical Education...........................Room 204
Student Calendar
FRIDAY, SATURDAY, MONDAY. OCTOBER 10, 11, 13
Chains...............................................................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 14
Goncral Assembly........................................11:30 A. M., Carnogic Music Hall
Chains................................................................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, OCTOBER 15, 16, 17
Chains................................................................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 18
Football Game............................................Toledo, 3:00 P. M.. Carnegio Bowl
Football Dance..............................................................................9:00 P. M., Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 25 
Football Game........................................................W. & J., at Washington, Pa.
Dr. Dartow Griffess, of Baltimore, 
Md a graduate of John Hopkins Uni
versity, has been appointed as Acting 
Head of the Department of Industrial 
Economics at Carnegie.
Dr. Griffess, who is a native of 
Pikesviiie, Md., was graduated from 
Johns Hopkins with an A. B. degree 
in 1920, and in 3023 he received his 
degree as Doctor of Philosophy from 
the same institution. For the past 
year he ims been connected with tho 
University of South Dakota a Assist
ant Professor of Economics. Dr. Grif
fons, it is announced, succeeda Pro
fessor John S. Keir, who has* joined 
the staff)of the Dennison Manufactur
ing Company in Framingham, Mass.
Another addition to tho family for 
tlio coming year Is announced by the 
Carnegio Toch authorities in the ap
pointment of Louis W. Huber, of Ur
bana, 111., as instructor in tho Depart
ment of Metallurgical and Mining En
gineering. Mr. Huber is a graduate 
of tire University of Iowa receiving 
bis B. S. degree in 1921 and his N. S. 
degree in 19215. After serving for two 
years at Iowa University aa a grad
uate assistant in mining research, he 
has been employed until tlio present 
time as a mine ventilation engineer.
DAVE GARBER FOLLOWS 
BROTHERS FOOTSTEPS
It seems that musical directorships 
run in the Garber family. Jun Gar
ber, tiie elder of the two brothers is 
the director aud owner of the famous 
Garber Davis orchestra ol vletrola 
fame, Arts Ball postponement, and va
rious other things. Brother Dave is 
following in his brothers footsteps on 
a smaller scale, being manager of 
the Carnegie Tech Band.
While tho music produced is of en
tirely different character, the princi
ple is the same, and we may one day 
expect to hear of Daye leading his 
own private orchestra in a concert at 
the Hotel Pennsylvania, and making 
records for the Vletrola,
IncIdenUy there is a rumor that Jan 
is going to bring I_Ib orchestra back 
to Pittsburgh somo time in October 
and is going to glvo a dance at either 
the Schenley or the Syria Mosque. 
This will he an opportunity for some 
of the big dance orchestras on the 
campus to get a line on a fine attrac
tion for their own particular event.
SKETCH CLUB TO HOLD
AUTUMN CORN ROAST
Whats a rainy day in an artists 
life? The rain didnt stop any of 
tho Sketch club from working hist 
Sunday. They visited Mr. Hawes at 
CoraopoIIs Heights, ho lias a log callin .and a woods in hack of his home 
and when the kotclier saw those 
thoy considered the rain not worth 
noticing. Many old paintings and 
pencil sketches were made and an 
exhibition was hold In the cabin,
At tlio mooting which followed a 
few new members wore admitted. 
Plans wore made for a corn roast to 
bo hold at Shades Ravine, Trnfford 
City. Miss Kathleen n. McGraw, 
president of the club appointed the 
following committee of. arrangements: 
Mr. Howard Palmer, Mr. Sidney J. 
Enshvodd, Mr. Clarence Wood," Miss 
Mori,ha Haney, Ml Edith Kollly and 
Miss Mary Macdonald. Tho Sketch 
Club Invites students of art and archi
tecture to Join them.
PLEBES PUT ON CLASS RUSH
AT FRESHMAN ENTRANCE
Mutiny is in the air! Premature 
demonstration by tho Plobos! They1 
havo al last disputed Sophomore 
authority by trying to enter the Sei- \ 
once building by a rush.
At 1:15 Wednesday afternoon.' 
wlioii the Plobos had accumulated in i 
force at the side door of the Science j 
building, they found courage in their j 
numbers and in the entreaties of' 
nearby upperclassmen who were eager j 
for action, and dashed at the Sophs I 
near the side door. This endeavor to | 
waive post-dinner inspection ceremon
ies resulted in a mad scramble which 
was highly enjoyed by the specta
tors.
Time after time the Plebes wore re
pulsed and thrown back, but encour
aged by the pleadings of the upper
classmen, each time they resumed the 
fray. Although all onslaughts were 
unsuccessful, the Sophs were unable 
to line up the Plebes; so the conflict 
was finally terminated by the bell.
Thats That
When Freshmen come at break of day, j 
And all the world looks bleak and j 
gray.
Who smooths their weary troubled j 
way?
Nobody!
When Math and Cliem break on their i 
sight,
And keep tho Plebds awake all night, 
Who tutors them, and shows them I 
light?
Nobody!
^ I
Blit when they fight, oh brother mine, j 
And try to crash the Sophmore line, 
Who has to give them help divine? ;
Not a soul!
Seriously speaking, the Plebes put j 
up a good fight, or rather two of them 
last weejt considering the short time j 
they had been in school. They sure! 
raised cain around the Science school. | 
And the Sophs were right with them. 
We can all appreciate the stand of the ' 
Greeks at Thermopyles after seeing | 
the Sophs at the lower entrance to j 
Science school.
Classical Courses in 
The High Schools
Are At Present Unsatisfact
ory, Says Educator
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
One of the *Plebes told us he re
ceived three black eyes in the course! 
of the week. With those quallfita-1 
tions he is., wasting his time at Car- j 
negie. He could make a mint hiring; 
out as a watchman on an ocean liner.! 
And wouldn't that boy have a rare I 
time at one'of these beauty contests: I 
he could see half as much again as 
the ordinary man, and consider what 
the ordinary man sees.
There is a story circulating around i 
the Campus about a certain Plebe 
from Maggie Murphy. On her first! 
day here, she was observed by sev
eral of the connoiseurs in pulchritude 
among the Science Seniors and they 
were promptly smitten. And now its 
become an epidemic in the school. 
Many of tlio older Maggies are left on 
the bench while their erstwhile affin
ities are prortrated, figuratively 
speaking, at the feet of the latest 
campus sensation. As you notice, we 
mention no names, so this cant be 
taken personally. You notice that 
we're not signing our name either. It 
would he tough if some of the eldersisters would shave the hair off this 
younger! sister, but most of the 
brethren would love her if she were 
bald; at least that's what they say. 
We would!
If you were sitting on the porch of 
your fraternity house last Sunday 
noon, and saw your own particular 
prospect pass your house and go into 
the fraternity across the way! Oh, 
thats when a feller needs a friend. 
But when you see the boy whom you 
thought was sown up by another 
bunch come tripping bashfully up 
your steps, oh boy, aint it a grand 
and glorious feeling?
Itusheo and guest of honor for three 
weeks, with parties and dinners ga
lore, and then to become a pledge, 
and have to clean windows and go to 
tlio store; its a tough life. Oh my 
yes.
It' Wash-Jeff doesnt start winning 
by moro than one touchtown from 
those small colleges, were going to 
take a fall out of her which will echo 
all through tho district. And inci
dentally tho Panther hotter start get
ting in shape, cause lies going to run 
Into a tough tangle In a couple 
weeks.
Dean Andrew F. West, of the Grad
uate School of Princeton University, j 
and President of the American Clas-1 
sical League, makes public today the j 
report on the inquiry into the study j 
and teaching of the classics, which 
has been conducted by the Classical j 
League for the past several years. ;
This embodies the findings of the 
committee, based upon its inquiry, as 
to what should be regarded as the 
proper content of Latin courses in 
schools. As a result of a thorough
going inquiry carried on among the 
educational experts of the United 
States, the committee finds:
The evidence furnished by the 
tests and special studies and con
firmed, by the judgment of teachers 
indicates that the present content of 
the four-year Latin course as coin-, 
monly found in the schools is too ex
tensive in amount or two difficult in 
kind, or both, to provide a suitable 
medium for the satisfactory attain
ment of the objectives which were 
determined upon as valid for the 
course in secondary Latin.
The Uhl, studies, based upon re-1 
ports from 85,000 pupils distributed 
through all four years of the course, 
show that the average daily amount 
of time outside the class now devoted 
by Latin pupils to the preparation of 
their lessons is considerably, greater 
in each year of the course than is required for any other subject in the! 
secondary school, and that even first- j 
year Latin requires more time for 
preparation than any non-Latin sub- j 
ject in any year of the course.
The evidence drawn from the tests j 
and special studies with respect to 
the degree of success with which the 
various objectives are attained is con
firmed by the judgment of teachers. 
But as has already been pointed out, 
the estimates of teachers on this point 
are to be regarded as on the whole 
too favorable.
Thus, for example, only 21% of 
the teachers filling out the general 
questionnaire regarded is unsatisfac
tory the results secured in the pro
gressive development of power to 
read Latin. Yet a majority of the 
teachers expressed dissatisfaction 
with the extent to which most of the 
ultimate objectives were being con
tained.
Thus 75% regarded as unsatisfac
tory the results secured in develop
ing literary appreciation; about 60% 
regarded as unsatisfactory the results 
in developing a historical and cul
tural background, in developing good 
English through adequate translation, 
and In developing a knowledge of 
general language structure.
From 43%- to 50% regarded as un
satisfactory the results secured in de
veloping desirable mental habits and 
in the ability to read English; 40% 
considered that neither a knowledge 
of classical allusions nor an under
standing of the actual Latin occur
ring in English was being satisfactor
ily developed; while from 23% to
Aside from the performance of 
the football team on the field last 
Saturday, the most outstanding and 
noteworthy feature of the game was 
the cheering of the Girl-Cites.
Man has always taken upon him
self certain prerogatives as being 
inherently his privileges and he has 
always wanted to defend these fields 
from encroachment by employing 
ridicule as his weapon. Thus it has 
been with cheering. The men stu
dents have always made the most 
noise (probably because there are 
more of them) and, there has grown 
up the conviction that it is undig
nified for a girl to cheer.
It is undignified. There is no doubt 
about it. Yet, it occurs to us that 
the football bleachers is not a very 
dignified throne anyway. Dignity is 
out of place in the student section 
at the football field. In spite of that, 
a condition has gradually grown up 
among the men students such that 
they are actually a bit ashamed of 
showing enthusiasm, except when it 
is conventionally correct, such as 
when a touchdown is made or a tryfor-goal has been completed.
We venture to say that at the 
Carnegie-Thiel game none had a bet
ter time than did the Girl-Cites and 
we further suggest that the most 
miserable bunch in the crowd were 
the Men-Cites who were unable to 
overcome the dignified gloom which 
they seemed to be under. The- at
mosphere finally became so oppress
ing that even the girls became 
gloomy.
It lias ever been the boast of Car
negie that whatever might be the 
fortunes on the field of battle, the 
cheering of Carnegie would always
be superior to that of any opponent. 
There are serious doubts whether 
the little handful of Thiel support
ers did not show better spirit and 
better cheering than did the Carne
gie students, with the exception of 
the Girb-Cites. It is certain that the 
little fellows in the stand near tho 
field house performed immeasurable 
better than the rest of us.
There will be a game in the Car
negie bowl next Saturday. The band 
will leave Central Building at its 
j usual time. A large section will be 
j reserved for all the Juniors and 
j Seniors who wiM take it upon themj selves to help do a little conceutrat! ed cheering of Carnegies student 
| body in the eyes Of visitors.
! The snake dance last Saturday wa3 
i good and the order preserved, at that 
i time will be preserved in the future 
I too. Hereafter, however, any man 
j who enters the reserved section of 
I the Cites will be expected to take 
j part in the snake dance and those 
| who remain behind will be asked to 
j vacate. The Cites section is re
served for cheerers and will be re
served for them only. The girls and 
the Plebes are not the only ones 
that have Carnegie spirit. It is. up 
to us to show them. Some of them 
are sure to come from Missouri. 
YOURS FOR THE FOOD OF CAR
NEGIE.
WILSON HIGH SCORER AT SPECIAL INSTRUCTION 
R.O.T.C. RIFLE MATCHES: BOOSTS TUITION RATE
On Thursday, October 2, at the reg
ular drill period of the R. O. T. C., I 
Asbury G. Wilson, Junior, Civil Engi
neering, was presented with a certifi
cate from the War Department, sig
nifying his proficiency with the rifle 
and his capability as an instructor in 
marksmanship. Wilson was a mem
ber of the ten-man team picked from 
all branches of the R. O. T. C. to rep
resent the Third Corps Area in tho 
National Rifle Matches at Camp 
Perry, Ohio. He is to be congratu
lated, for he is the first man from 
Carnegie to participate in these 
matches.
Wilson, and two men from other 
schools made the highest scores. The 
Third Corps Area team succeeded in | 
holding the lead nearly until the end, I 
when they were passed by the SeV- j 
entli Corps Area*:representatives. The 
match was conducted during a' cold, | 
driving rain, so that the bulls eye I 
was nearly invisible; and the wind j 
was so strong that precise shooting i 
was difficult.
Contrary to the impression preva
lent outside the Department of Mu
sic; the increase in tuition of stu
dents in that department is not occastioned by any change of policy 
or administration.
With few exceptions the students 
in the department require individual 
attention. The necessary equipment 
is very costly, yet', thoulgh these con
ditions have always existed, it was 
not until this year that an increase 
in tuition was decided upon.
The added charge is made on a 
basis of the amount of personal su
pervision a student requires. For 
one hour a week of such special at
tention the tuition is increased 
twenty-five dollars.
It is understood that no branching 
out into new fields, nor any special 
activity, will' be made possible by 
the increase in the revue of the de
partment
35% were dissatisfied with the abil
ity of pupils to apply Latin to the 
learning of the elements of English 
or to the mastering of foreign lan
guages.
MEETING OF HI Y" CLUB
All former members of the Hi Y 
club are urged to meet at the Y" 
office at 4:30 on Tuesday. Plans will 
he made for the coming year and 
nominations for officers will be held.
of I
The ghporlng nt Saturdays game1 
was the host wevo hoard for quito a i 
while, hut. It Started getting pretty | 
ragged towards the end of tho gamo, i 
Too many linger in the pie. Al Minettl Is the cheerleader, and should 
have undivided attention and control 
The Improvement was,very noticeable! 
over that of last wook, however, and j 
should improve steadily. Weve some j 
big games coming, and weve got to 
strut our stuff In the noise line. Inci
dentally, how about having a separate I 
cheerleader for the kids section? It's  
a good idea to let them in free, but! 
we may as well organize their cheers j 
as lot them cheer at will. Down at  
Washington, the boys section contri-j 
butes a lot to the college, and we  
could just as well have them do the i 
same up. here.
The fraternities on Forbes street, 
particularly the three on the corner; 
have backyards that look like second  
hand car markets. They seem to I 
have about four or live cars apiece, j 
It seems queer that those nearest j ' 
school are the ones who have cars to! 
ride over. But then on the other! 
hand, maybe they have the laziest j 
gang ot' fellows.
How many pledges did you get? 
They say that a naturalist is a man 
who misspends his life looking for the 
beauties of nature in flowers.
No Reward for Laziness.
The only kind of people who are j 
complete failures in life are the ones \ 
who never try to accomplish anything i 
For those who endeavor to achievi j 
something Worth while there is alwaysa reward, even though they seem t" i 
fall, but for downright lazluoss there 
Is no rewardand there shouldn't be 
Now that the rushing season is 
over, the Maggie Murphs will again 
come into their own as a week end 
attraction, we might say week end at
traction, since this dope about the 
stronger i<e the bunk. They say that 
a clever girl can get any fellow she 
wants. But it all depends on how 
dumb the fellow is.
Dormitories For Women
Forbes Ilall................................1916 Forbes Street
Forbes Hall Annex..............*1916 Forbes Street,
Mellon Ilall................................5052 Forbes Street.
Mellon Hall Annex............. 5052 Forbes Street,
Dormitory....................................500*1 Forbes Street,
Dormitory....,...........................5072 Forbes Street,
Dormitory...................................5080 Forbes Street,
Dormitory...................................5090 Forbes Street.
Dormitory....................................5150 Forbes Street,
Dormitory....................................5137 Woodlawn Av
Dormitory....................................5137 Woodlawn Av
Dormitory...................................5141 Woodlawn Av
Dormitory....................................5113 Woodlawn Av
Dormitory...................................5147 Woodlawn Av
Dormitory...................................5151 Woodlawn Av
Practice House........................5125 Woodlawn Av
.....................Schonley 9079
.....................Schenley 9340
.....................Schenley 90G3
.....................Schonley 9147
.....................Schonley 9220
.....................Schenley 9199
.....................Sehonloy 9473
.....................Schenley 9107
................Schenley 91G2
mue..............Schenley 9430
enuQ..............Schenley 9434
euue... .Schenley 0341-R
enue..............Schenley 9433
euue..............Schenley 9114
enue.............Schenley 943S
enue.........Schenley 2513-J
Complete Writing Equipment
Side by side in your pocket, Eversharp and Wahl 
Pen are ever ready to serve your thoughts.
Durability and dependability are common qualities 
of these economical, practical writing companions.
The non-clogging rifled tip, quick reloading, and 
complete interchangeability of parts are among the 
six new features which rriake the perfected Eversharp.
And the Wahl all-metal Pen is at par with Ever
sharp in giving thorough satisfaction. Light in 
weight, perfect in balance, resistant to wear, and 
beautiful in designit is the ideal pen.
Eversharp, $1 to $45. Wahl Pen, $5 to $55.
[
Mde in clieU.S.A. by THE WAHL COMPANY, Chicago 1 
Canadian Factory, THE WAHL COMPANY, Ltd., Toronto
Manufafuren of the lVahl Erersharp and the Wahl All-Metal Fountain Pen \
PERFECTEDThe
WAMMmSHARP 
&WAHI PW

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDA . OCTOBER 7, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
SKIBOS HAVE NEW 
TRAINING QUARTERS I
Vast Improvement Over the 
Old Field HouseNear 
Level of Field
ASSISTANT COACH BOB WADDELL
Bods MunhaU is slowly but surely j 
getting the new training quarters in I 
the basement of the Margaret Morri- j 
son Building in first class shape. He i 
has been handicapped all summer J 
because of the fact that furnishings J 
and equipment have not arrived on : 
time. In addition to that the school 
workmen have been busy with other 
work and have not been able to 
finish parts of tlie training quarters. 
It is expected that everything will 
be completed in the near future,, 
however.
The entrance to the new training 
quarters is at the corner of the Mar
garet Morrison Building near the 
football stands. A concrete stairway 
leads from the field to the street. In 
the extreme corner of the building 
near the stands is the coaches' room, 
while beyond that is the main room 
on one end of which there is a long 
blackboard. This is the room which 
is used for skull- practice. Berts 
"rubbing- room is the next one, and 
past that is the Freshman dressing 
room and the equipment room. Next 
in line is the visiting team's dress
ing room on the other side of which 
there is another equipment room.
To the left of the main entrance 
is the varsity dressing room and be
hind that the equipment room. A 
hallway leads to the varsity showers 
-adjoining the varsity dressing room, 
while further on is the Freshman 
showers. The Freshmen showers is 
also used by the visiting teams.
The new training quarters is a big 
improvemeht over that In the old 
Field House, both in the number of 
rooms and facilities, and the fact 
that it is nearly at the level of the 
playing field.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
WHAT DO YOU SAY. PLEBES?
Recently a former manager of a varsity team who happened to bo hero 
for the football game that day remarked to me: "Do you know, in spite of
the fact that you fellows have many more advantages and much better 
facilities here in the new training quarters than when I was out for manager, 
I have noticed a decided shortage of assistants. Why, in the ton minutes 
I have been standing here only a few of the players have been taken care 
of in the matter of equipment. The rest must stand around and wait. Is it 
possible that the Freshmen this year are a lazy, ambitionless lot, that so 
few of them are out for assistant managers?
I answered that it was not really the fault of the Freshmen, for thoy 
have not been fully instructed regarding the benefits to be derived from 
engaging in various activities. These benefits should be explained by the 
upperclassmen, especially the Plebe advisors. No student really gets a wellrounded education unless he gets into some activity on the campus, as this 
former manager knew full well. However,- he did not seem convinced by 
my argument regarding who was to blame.
Plebes, will you back me up in my contention? Lets see a decided in
crease in the number of applicants for the various managerial positions, 
Tartan and Puppet reporters, and others. Remember, you will not only be 
doing something for Carnegie, but for yourselves as well.
THREE TRAINS FOR
W. & J. OCTOBER 13
(Continued From Page One.) 
trips this year. He is making ar
rangements for. both the W. & J. and 
Penn State trips. Trains will leave 
Pittsburgh for Little Washington in 
time to get to the preliminary game 
at 1:30. They will return immediate* ly after the big game. The price of a 
round trip ticket is $1.18. This is 
just half the regular price.
Tho information available concern
ing the Penn State trip is limited. 
However if 5001 tickets can be sold 
the round trip will cost $6.20. Pre
liminary tickets will be sold for $2.00 
each, those being exchangeable later 
for regular tickets.
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
J evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
I by appointment.
! This is a School
! Not a public dance hall.
Smiles 
^ hack at
BE Ml
WRIGLEYS
after every meal
Cleanses montb and teeth and aids digestion.
Relieves tbat overeaten feeling and acid moiitlft.
Its 1-a-s-t-l-n-g llavor satisfies the craving for sweets.
Wrlgley* Is doable value In the benefit and pleasure It provides.
S*al*d in it* Purity 
Package,
ivor lasts
Coach Bob Waddell requires very 
little introduction to upperclassmen, 
for those who have been around Cat 
negie for a couple of years know a 
great deal about him. The Freshmen, 
however, are not so well informed.
Waddell at the present time is 
first assistant to Head Coach Wally j 
Steffen. During the week Bob has 
complete charge of the varsity squad 
and upon his shoulders rests the 
burden of developing the team as j 
Wally desires. So far he has done j 
exceptionally well, as it attested by 
the improvement shown against Thiel 
last Saturday after a full week of j 
Waddells coaching. We are con- j 
vinced that no better man could 
have been secured than Waddell to 
handle the team in Wallys absence.
Coach Waddell graduated from 
Bucknell University in 1919. He 
coached football there the following 
year. In 21 and '22 he was Steffens 
assistant at Carnegie, but in 23 he 
returned to Bucknell. This year he 
is a very important cog iy the Rlaid 
football machine.
Waddell was quite an athlete him
self when he went to school. .He 
Vnade ten varsity letters in major 
sports at Bucknell, including foot
ball, baseball and basket ball. He 
was captain of the football team in 
1918. He played! quarterback on the 
football team, and was considered 
one of the best field generals in col
lege football ranks.
TOLEDO TEAM TOUGH
Advance information from Toledo indicates that the Tartans will bo in 
for a busy afternoon when they face their Ohio foes Saturday. Last year 
the Toledo team scored two touchdowns on the Plaid, which is something 
more than Pitt or Wasli-Jeff were able to do. This season the visitors will 
have practically their entire team intact, together with some valuable addi
tions. Toledo University each year attracts more and more good men from 
the strong Waite and Scott High schools of that city, and they will be any
thing but soft for the Tartans. Added to this is the probability that Mefort, 
who seriously injured his shoulder in the Thiel game, will be unable to 
play. Captain Newman and Yoder also received injuries and might not bo 
at their best for this game.
NAMES TO BE SUPPLIED
FOR GIRLS DORMS
(Continued From Page One.)
As before stated, various trees 
shall be selected as the subject for 
the names. By definite titles such 
confusion as now arises by refer
ring to the houses by their street 
numbers will) be avoided and shall 
certainly be much more euphonious. 
Whether the dormitory residents or 
thos developing the plan shall 
choose the names has not yet been 
announced.
Upon completion of all the details, 
a suitable ceremony with dedicatory 
addresses will accompany, the chris
tenings and each dorm will be pre
sented with its namo plate. There 
after we may visit our girl at The 
Drooping Eucalytus without any at
tendant cover charge.
I Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all good fel
lows meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
THIEL NOT EASY
It took the hardest kind of playing to defeat Thiel Saturday by three 
touchdowns aud a field goal. Had it not been for the fact that a clever 
defense for the visitors forward passing game was devised, it might have 
been a different story. The coaches were worried during tho week, for tho 
scrubs successfully completed pass after pass against the varsity, using 
the Thiel formations. So well did the varsity keep on the alert in the gamo, 
however, that only one pass was completed by Hollerans crew and that ono 
a gain of only two yards. The havoc wrquglit by means of the forward pass 
against the Plebes by Slippery Rock undoubtedly impressed the varsity in 
a measure with the danger that lay in that style of attack.
SOMETHING NEW IN THE PLAID ATTACK
Several old-timers got together after the game and one said to the 
others: Did you notice something which happened in this gamo which has 
never before happened during a Carnegie game, at least not to my knowl
edge? Yes, answered one of the others quickly, Wally Steffens team 
made a field goal. Quite true. We have delved into the records, but so far 
have been unable to find a single case where this had been dono by a Steffen 
coached team before. When Max Bastian, with Newman holding tho ball, 
kicked that placement from the 32-yard line, history was made at Carnegie. 
In all probability this will not be the last Incident of its kind tills year, how
ever. Bastains educated toe might be used to advantage in some of tho 
harder games later in the season, when three points might mean tho differ
ence between a victory or a defeat. It Is not forgotten that last year WasliJeff was able to defeat us by a field goal. It would be sweet to turn tho 
tables on them.
FRESHMEN TO TRAVEL
The Plebes are working hard this week in preparation for their gamo 
with the State College Freshmen Saturday. The tie with Westinghouse and 
the loss to Slippery Rock Normal has sorvod only to mako them moro de
termined to win against State. The team leaves Friday night under tho 
guidance of Manager Jerry Slye, who has worked hard with his proteges 
this fall. Better luck this time, Plebes!
GRIDIRON GRUNTS
Late in the second period Mefort landed on the point of his right 
shoulder as he was tackled on an end-around play. The oxtent ot his injury 
will not be known for several days, though It is thought he suffered a torn 
ligament.
Captain Newman was back at his old position at end after Mefort 
injury. Obie has now played overy position except center. You might get a 
whack at that yet, O. B.
Bastian sure did tear off some pretty runs around end. Tho fow times 
he was stopped was not his fault, as tho opposing end was not put down.
Cowan, who had Ills jaw broken in the Slippery Rock game, remalnds us 
of the time Doc Taylor suffered n similar misfortune. Like Taylor, Cowan 
wanted to continue in the game after the injury. That is conclusive proof 
of gameness.
Hable was acting-captain late in the Inst period when Nowman was 
forced to leave the game. Chot knows Ills stuff.____________________
SLOAD RESIGNS FROM
CLUBS' MANAGERSHIP
WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
(Continued From Page One) 
in quantity, or else they are too good 
to admit this terrible fact, and for 
that reason the old string men will 
have to blast their tonsils trying to 
reach high A.
The other end of the scale is miss
ing too. There are very very few 
basso profundi in the Clubs. Tho 
great middle class predominates. 
Baritones are abundant, and second 
tenors are plentiful, but a balanced 
club cannot be made out ol this ma
terial. Here is a chance for some en
terprising youth to make a letter of 
merit in the form of an insignia by 
saying, or admitting, ho is either a 
first tenor 6r a second base. Next 
Sunday at 2:30 iu the Exhibition 
room.
As a cheerful parting word Man
ager Sload (he was manager when 
he said this) said: It is going to
be a tough job for some poor duck to 
take this up at the outset of the year, 
and make a go out of it. Last year, 
however, the same sort of thing hap
pened, and the season went along 
fairly well under this handicap, so 
we may hope against hope that this 
one will at least be almost as good as 
last year.
Next Issue we will have the pleas
ure of announcing the "poor duck 
who has gained the fame of Manager 
of the Musical Clubs, aud until then 
it is up to the student body to hope 
with us that the man chosen will 
have the necessary optimism and fire 
to make the season hot with enthus
iasm, and the Clubs a real organiza
tion.
JO GIBSON SELECTED 
HOME ECON. SECRETARY
MILT WEAVER TO LEAD 
PLEBE FOOTBALL TEAA\
This is Ohios fourth year in school. 
Ho is a Senior in the Drama Depart
ment of Arts School, and is probably 
tho best known man at Carnegie. Obie 
hails from Birmingham, Alabama, and 
is a distinctly .Southern type. Tall 
and rangy,' he makes an ideal football 
player. He played end for two years 
on the team, but last year was 
switched to halfback, tho position he 
is holding down this season. Captain 
Newman does the punting for the 
team, and so far has out-punted every 
one of his opponents.
In addition to being a star football 
player, Obie is a crack baseball and 
basket ball player. 1-Ie has made his 
letter at basket ball, though last year 
ho was forced to drop that sport on 
account of lack of time. He was the 
regular first baseman and cleanup hit
ter on the baseball team beforo tho 
team was disbanded last spring.
Obie is very prominent in activities 
on the campus. Ho is a member of 
the Student Council and president of 
the Arts School Senate. Last year 
he was a member of the Athletic 
Council. He belongs to tho Druids, 
Sophomore honorary society, Delta 
Skull, junior honorary and dragon, 
senior honorary. Newman is a mem
ber of Pi Kappa Alpha, National Fra
ternity.
Thursday; evening tho Freshman 
football team got together and elect
ed a captain for tho present season. 
Tho choice foil upon Milton R. 
Weaver, tho Lancaster High School 
boy who has boon going groat giuns 
for the Freshies since coming here 
to training camp.
When Weaver first arrived at 
training camp he was tried out at 
tenter and also at tackle, the posi
tion he played for three years while 
at high school. Ho was captain of 
his' high school team the last year 
at Lancaster. Being tall and rangy 
and weighing close to 170 pounds, 
Weaver makes an ideal end. 1-Ie is 
a. fierce tackier and seldom fails 
to bring down tlio runner, ln addi
tion to being a good football player, 
he comes here with a fine reputation 
as a basket ball and baseball player. 
Captain Weaver is taking tho Build
ing Construction courso in the Col
lege of Industries. ,
Other Lancaster boys who are reg
ulars on tho Freshman football team 
this year are Cowan, halfback, and 
Johnson, tackle. It seems that Lan
caster is quite a football center, 
judging from the number of good 
men coming from that locality each 
year.
RAIN CAUSES DELAY AT 
TENNIS TOURNAMENT
SLIPPERY ROCK TOO 
MUCH FOR PLEBES
Excellent Forward Passing 
Game of Visitors Gives 
Them 13-6 Victory
GEN. ASSEMBLY AT MUSIC
HAUL NEXT TUESDAY
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
very important one, its purpose being 
to work up enthusiasm for tho Wash
ington and Jefferson football game 
the following Saturday. Tho final 
plans for the trip to Washington will 
be announced at this time. An at
tempt will be made to get Coach Stef
fen to be present but as he is busy 
with judicial duties in Chicago he 
may not be able to be here.
Assistant Coach Bob Waddell and 
some of the stars of former years will 
probably be on hand to say a few 
words.
Josephine Gibson, bettor known on 
the campus as Jo", has boon em
ployed during the last summer as as
sistant cafeteria director at tho Y. W. 
C. A.
She has now been advanced to tho 
position of Home Economics Secre
tary. Succeeding Mrs. H. A. Power, 
whose resignation took effect recent
ly.
Miss Gibson graduated from the 
Home Economics Department of Mar
garet Morrison in 1924 and is well 
known and remembered because of 
having been chosen Campus Week 
Queen last spring. This position she 
filled with credit.
Since Miss Gibson lias assumed 
charge of the Central Y. W. C. A. 
they have held a Come aud See 
night. This was held on September 
2G. At that time the entire home 
economics department was open to 
the public for inspection.
Its not what you can do, but what 
you make people think you do that 
counts in this world. Likewise thats 
the most important factor in keeping 
married life happy.
GUARDS
W
HEN you see a fello who 
looks exactly right in his 
clothing do you ever ay,  How 
does he do iti Probabilities 
ar, old man, that he wear John 
Ward Menn Shoes. They add 
a lot to a fellos appcaranac.
On Display By 
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick 
At Skibo Inn 
October 17 and 18
Scot in New Yoik, Brooklyn, Newark 
and Philadelphia *^5? Addrew for Mail 
Order, 121 Duane t., New York City
THIEL UNABLE TO STOP
PLAID; SCORE IS 22 TO 0
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
through tho middle of the line tor 
25 yards. Within striking distance 
of the goal Bastlan was given tho 
balli and went throu'gh tho line for 
another six pointer. Shortly after 
this tho first half ended.
Tho second half op'onoil with: Donolioo in Newmans placo and Nowman In Motorts position, Mefort, liar 
Ing been hurt near tho closo of the 
first half. Douohuo did not 'get a 
chance to show his roaL ability, tine 
coaches thinking It moro advisable to 
sava his ankle for games to come. 
Ho did, however, show flashes of Ills 
old romW The Lutherans soomod to 
bave profited by the rest botwoon 
halvqs and ropulsod tho attacks of 
the Plaid team throughout this po-1 
rlod. However, Carnegio was not to J 
bo denied another touchdown, and 
Beodo broke into tho scoring column 
late In tho fourth quarter, for the i 
third and last touchdown.
The Tartans showed a marked lm-, 
provomont over last Saturday and 
If this keops up, Carnegie Toch will 
have a team, of which slio will bo 
justly proud. Thiol, at no time, ap
peared dnngorous, but fought stub
bornly, though hi vain. Tho playing 
of Rauib and Pul torsoli stood out for 
the visitors, while tho work of Busflan, Beede and Captain Newman was 
particularly brilliant. Ohio was get
ting helghth and distance to his 
punts and tho entire Plaid lino was 
strong on the defensive.
Tho linoupir:
Carnogle22, Thiel0.
Mefort .L. E..... Niclcodson
Kristof .................L. T... (C.) Berktnan
Anderson ...........L. G............. Jamieson
Manby .....................C........................ Allen
Cass .....................R. G..................... Hazen
Yoder ..............ft. T....................... T. Bell
Hable ...................R. E..................... Vassia
Bastlan ...................Q............. Patterson
Nowman (C) ___H........................... Doud
Wertenberger . .R. H......................Raub
Beede .......................F..................... J. Bell
Carnegie .  .6 9 0 722
Thiel ...fc.0 0 0 0 0
Substitutions: ThielGiander for
J. Bell, Dufford for Vassia', Groth for 
Berkman, Metz for Patterson, Berlcman for Groth, Zundel for Rauib, Matteer for Groth. CarnegieJ. Christoff 
for Bastian, Donahue for Newman, 
Newman for Mefort, Goodwin for 
Newman, Newman for Bastia. Har
man for Wertenberger, Guthrie for 
Krlstoff, J. Christoff for Newman. 
Goals: CarnegieBastian 2, Beede. 
Field goalBastian. Try for point 
Newman 2. Time of quarters15 
minutes. RefereeBlum, Iron City 
College. UmpireMcFarland, Wash
ington and Jefferson. Head lines
manH. L. Brooke, Washington and 
Lee.
Rain interfered last week with the 
playing of the first round matches of 
tlio annual fall tennis tournament, 
the courts being covered with pools 
of water nearly tho ontlro week. Tho 
sun failed to shfiio with enough bril
liance to dry up tho courts with tho 
result that only ono match was 
played off.
In this match Groonwood defeatofl 
Rossoau in straight sots, C-2, 15 3. Tho 
victor flashed tho hotter form, ospocially when the points wero noodod, 
by forcing tho play to Rosaoaus back
hand. Many outs and nots by Ros
soau proved to ho his undoing.
Dosplto tho fact that rain lialtod 
tho tournament for practically a 
wook, thoro aro somo bonoflts result
ing. Now that tho courts aro dry 
thoy aro in much hotter condition 
than boforo tho rain. In fact, a good 
rain Js what was noodod. Matches 
will be hurrlod through this wook by 
Tonnls Managor Sload as ho doslroB 
to havo tho finals played as soon as 
possible.
Demand Muoh.
Quito a fow worthy oltlzono will 
novor bo satlsfiod with medical progroas until nomo moans has boon-de
vised for half-soling a worn-out llvor.
Schenley Coffee Shop 
and Delicatessen
SCHENLEY APARTMENTS 
FORBES STREET 
Tho Ideal place for your 
theater party.
Wo handle the finest of Im
ported and domestic food stuffs,
Just tlio things you nood for 
your next, dormitory party.
NEWMAN CLUB TO HOLD
FRESHMAN RECEPTION
(Continued From Page One,)
The reception was originally sched
uled for October l, but redecorating 
the ball room of the Duquenno Coun
cil House necessitated Us postpone
ment. Tlio new decorations will be 
completed by the fifteenth and the 
Newrnan Club will hold the first 
dance In the renovated room.
Floor 160 years Old 8tlll Good.
When nn old house In Pike county, 
Pennsylvania, was torn down It was 
found the floors of pitch pine, 100 
years old, were still good, says the 
American Forestry Magazine of Wash
ington. The size amazed the carpen
ters, for the planks were two feet wide 
and an Inch and a quarter thick.
THE FRATERNITY 
OF b USINES S
ofdn now to form th aimoclutlonii 
nnd habita that will r.orvo you when 
you enter tlio buHinoHB world. A 
biink account, nnldo from tho tantfiblo valu, furnlflhcii axperlonco 
nnd contnctn which will oporato to 
your advantage In laUjr yearn.
Tho pomonal IntoroHt of Mellon of
ficers In tho financial wolfaro of 
deiionltorn in ono of tlio oulnt-amlini; 
characteristics of tho institution. 
Our experlenco and business Judg
ment aro nt your nervlco.
Capital and Surplus $12,000.000.00
Mellon National Bank
P i tt sblift'dh, Pa.
Excellent Forward Passing Gamo of
Visitors Gives Them 13-6 Victory.
Tho Skibo Plebes wore liandod a 
defeat by Slippery Rock Normal in 
the preliminary to tho Thiel game 
last Saturday, tho scoro bolng 13 
to 6.
Tho Plebes got oil to a good start, 
and for a time looked like eusy vic
tors; Ilowdy" Groskloss carried 
tho ball ovor for tho first touchdown 
after tho visitors had fumbled in 
their own territory. Hess missed the 
extra point after touchdown. A bit 
of over-confidence seemed to creep 
into tlio team at this point, aud be
fore they knew it tho Slippery Rock 
aggregation, as tlio result of a series 
of well timed forward passes, had 
tho ball within striking distance of 
the goal. Williams of the visitors, 
carried it across from the four-yard 
line for tho touchdown which tied 
tho score. The- poiht after touchdown 
was missed by Berkman.
Shortly after the second half 
opened up, a series of line plays 
with a few moro forward passes aud 
the final marker was scorod by Slip
pery Rook, 'l'oo much cannot bo 
said for tho visitors passing game, 
it was worked with clock-like preci
sion and nottod them more yardage 
than scrimmage did.
After tho first quarter tlio Plebe 
line became ragged, and tlio oppo
nents seemed to have things pretty 
much their own way. Tho Plebe 
back field as a whole d id much better 
than last Saturday,
An mifortunato incident occurred 
during tho Inst half whon Cowan of 
tho Plobos received a broken jaw in 
scrimmage. Tho husky warrior playod a good game and wanted to re
main iu the fray dosplto his Injury. 
Grosslcloss did somo good Avork at 
left half until ho was taken out In 
the last quarter. Tho lineup:
Toch PlobosG.
Slippery Rocilc13.
Woavor ................L.F................... Punjnk
Flshboln ..............L. T.................... James (
Comack ................L. G_________ Taylor
Allen .........................C.......................... Sagoi
Johnson ..............R. G............... RalHtoi
Marshall ..............it. p.................. ilarla:
Lanulltt ...............ILK............ Whltolil
SobaStlan .............Q.............. Borkma/a.
Grosslcloss .........L, ll............ Will Inn .V
Cowan ................It. ll............... Sunday
Hons .......................in..................... Rowan
Carnegie Tech Plobos. .(1 0 0 0 6 
Sllp'pmry Rock .............0 (I 7 0--1.'}
Touchdown Carnogln, ClrosidcKniH; 
Slippery Rook, Williams 2, Goal 
after toulchdown-Berkman. Itoforoo 
 -McGllnohoy, Duquenno. Umpire - 
Robolo, I'onn Stale. Head llnosmau 
- Oarrott;, Case. ^
Tho Singer Pon and* Gift Shop In 
tho Jonklnu Arondo will qlvo you roaoonnblo prloonori calling' onrd, dnnco 
program, fnvorn, nchool plnu, rings, 
pillow topu, oto. Thoy can ropnlr your ' 
old fountain pen or noil you a bettor ono.Adv.
TECH POCKET 
BILLIARD PARLOR
FORBES, NEAR CRAIG 
Jorry, Managor.
Permanent Exhibit Shop 
JENKINS ARCADE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
vvvwvvw
Craig Barber Shop
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
DANIEL AND CICERO 
Proprietors
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE) FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 7. 1&24
j,j v V 7 m  m w w j -niIALUMNI PAGE! ^ i 1 t ii___
Former Grad Heads 
Pittsburgh Bureau
Keller Assumed Duty as New 
Head September 1
li wan recently announced l)y tho 
Secretary of tho Pittsburgh Chamber 
of Commerce, A. S. Keller assumed 
hie duties on September 1 an the new 
manager of their trade and industrial 
buroau. .Succeeding II. It. Mason 
who has gone to OroenHburg, Pa.
Since graduation Mr. Kollor's rosldonee ban been In Pittsburgh and 
until his recent appointment to tho 
Chamber of Commerce, ho ban boon 
connected with tho Consolidated Ex
panded Metals Company of Pitts
burgh whose o/llces aro in tho Oliver 
building.
Mr. Keller camo to Carnegie in 1010 
from Mount Pleasant, Pa., and grad
uated with a Bachelor of Scionco dogroo in Commercial Engineering in 
1024. He has also attended tho Uni[ CLAN NEWS j
NEW YORK CLAN
Tho Now York Clan will start Its 
activities for tills season with a din
ner danco.
This party is scheduled for Friday, 
November 14, at the Cafe Boulevard, 
Fortieth street off Broadway.
Tho committee Is planning to makd 
this a big event. "Bo, Now York 
Clansmen, just mark November 14 
dated, and make preparations to bo 
present at tho first big event of tho 
year.
Information will be furnished by .T. 
A. Cameron, president of the New 
York Clan, 115 Park avenue, Tuckahoc, Now York.
vorslty of Pittsburgh where he was 
active In athletics. While In Carnegio 
Ills activities consisted of being a 
member of the Commercial Club, Tnterfratornlty Council, basket ball 
manager, and the III lie club/
He saw service ln Franco as an 
aviator during tho recent World War. 
He Is a member of tho Thcta XI fra
ternity.
FORMER GRADUATE 
HEAD OF PLAYERS
Larry Paquin, Director 
Two Players Clubs at 
Dartmouth
of
CLAN DIRECTORY
BALTIMOREPresident, Arthur W. Crownover, Maryland Glass 
Corporation, Bromo Seltzer Tower Building; Vice President, 
G. S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments, Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets ; Secretary and Treasurer, P. IT. Dickey, 1318 Contin
ental Building.
BOSTON:Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollas
ton, Mass.
BUFFALOPresident, R. G. Townsend, 22 Bidwell Parkway; Vice 
President, B. A. button, 288 Saranac Avenue; Secretary and 
Treasurer, Robert Porter, 167 Porter Avenue.
CHICAGOPresident, J. B. Patterson, Ravinia, 111.; Vice President,
. Mrs. G. F. MacCaughey, 515 Vine Street, Park Ridge, 111.;
Secretary and Treasurer, 0. Lundy, 5475 Kimbark Avenue, 
Chicago, 111.
CINCINNATISecretary, J. W. Batman, care Johns-Manville Co. 
CLEVELANDPresident, George A. libeling, Newman-Stern Build
ing; Vice President, Mrs. M. J. Montgomery, <192 East 108th 
Street; Vice President, Albert May, 12503 CliTton Boulevard; 
v-oi Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington
, Avenue.
^CONNECTICUT President, R. W. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
C. Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 41 Kenneth
r F Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer, IC W. Fintlttir. lay, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
AYTON....President, Fred Flader, 2505 West Rivcrview Avenue;
10 ,ir Vico President, F. W. Hookcrl;, 1127 Grafton Avenue; Secrearoi tary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Grafton Avenue.
1TROIT President, AV. Ray Williams, care Westinghouse E. & M. 
Ju,n.! Company, 1535 Sixth Stroet; Secretary and Treasurer, .1. II. 
Miles, Milcs-Appleby Company, 4012 Woodward Avenue. 
ERIE- Secretary and Treasurer, Edwin Gross, euro llammormill 
Paper Company.
IIARRISIUIRG--President, John G, Todd,-20% North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.; Vice President, Airs. A. (I. Green, 410 Woodbino Street, Ilarri.slnirg, Pa.; Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 20^ 
North Quoen Street, Lane,aster, Pa.; Treasurer, (J. I). Whitney, 
2004 Derry Street, Harrisburg, Pa.
/ HUNTINGTON, W. VA. Secretary, ,1. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, E.
.IOI1NSTOYVN Secretary, John W. Frit/, 215 John Street. 
jiOS Secretary and Treasurer, Frederick Kindi, 2201
Mineral Avenue.
sTCW YORK President,A. Cameron, 131 Park Avenue, Wostehos 
til)/ Park, Tuckahoe, S. Y.; Vice President, M. I/. Patterson, 
8(1 Palisade Avenue, Bogota, N. ,1.; Seeri'lary and Treasurer,
, E. M. Gret/.ler, National Supply Corporation, 120 Broadway. 
NORFOLK President, T. I>. l(,il/.gibbon, 811 I loll, Street; Secretary, 
lames W. Phillips, Oil Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIA." - President, Paul W. TCmmel, 5710 North Seventh 
Street; Vice President, L. 10. Exline, 213 South 47th Street; 
Secretary and Treasurer, Dorothy E. Steinmaehor, 909 Clinton 
Street.
PITTSBHKCH President, M. R, AValton, 5838 Alderson Avenue. 
SAINT LOUISPresident, Paul Ivlingensmith, 10 Jeiierson Road, 
Webster Groves, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 
Waverly Place, Webster Groves, Mo.; Secretary, Nelson F. 
Rice, 1064 Arcade Building; Treasurer, M. A. Zeller, 2128 
Railway Exchange Building.
TULSA.Temporary Secretary, Arthur J. Kerr, 1G17 S. Quaker St. 
WASHINGTON, D. C.President, J. R, Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Miss Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, 
N. W.; Secretary aud Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington 
Place, N. E.
YOUNGSTOWNPresident, AV. N. Flanagan, 140 South Portland 
Street; Vice President;, R. P. Woodward, 165 Carroll Street; 
Secretary, L. D. AVoodworth, 2913 Southern Boulveard.
Seldom after graduation do wo hoar 
of a student making Such rapid progross in tholr chonon career as Is 
noted by one of the Dramatic students 
who graduated only two years ago. 
Most all graduates from this depart
ment seem to make wood progress 
after getting out, but an outstanding 
figure occasionally looms up as overtowering the otherfi. This fact not 
only tends to prove the thoroughness 
and high calibre of tho training given 
in tholr course, but It brings this fact 
before the public, Whon a player 
makos a signal success it is a credit 
to him and reflects favorably on his 
Alma Mater.
Lawrence Paquin, who entered Carnegie in J.91C and finished up in 1922 
has succeeded in making a credible 
rocord at Dartmouth College where 
he is an Instructor and head of the 
Dartmouth Players of Hanover, New 
Hampshire. He also heads tho Com
munity Players of the same place.
They have staged some well known 
plays which have mot with a howling 
success on their tours. The popular
ity of the plays can best be judged 
by the crowded houses to which they 
played on all occasions.
While in school, Paquin was popu
lar among his classmates. He had a 
wide range of activities on tho cam
pus. Somo of the major sodi were 
included editor-in-chief of (lie Tartan, 
Fall Festival Manager, and President 
of Drama Department.
He played a loading part in sevoral 
of tlio Little Theater productions such 
as "Bohemia Unlimited, "Ship 
Ahoy", "Princess Slip", and "Fiesta 
eh Cl ran ad a".
Paquin saw-service ovorseas during 
tho World War. Following the sign
ing of tho arjnistice, lie Joined the 
"Over Thoro Players League" and as
sisted in numerous of their produc
tions.
ALUMNAE MEETING WILL
BE HELD ON OCT.* 11
The annual business meeting of the 
Margaret 'Morrison Alumnae Associa
tion, followed by a tea, will be hold 
at the Womens College on Saturday 
afternoon, October 11 at two oclock. 
Members aro urged to come early so 
that they may attend the football 
gamo after tho mooting, Carnegie vs. 
University of Toledo on Tech Field.
COMPANY FORMED : 
BY THE DRAMATS
DADS URGED TO AT
TEND FATHERS DAY
November 1 is Set Aside as 
Day to Welcome Parents 
at Carnegie
:0RTY CLANSMEN
MEET IN FAR WEST
August 5 was a "rod lottor" day for 
tho Los Angeles Carnoglo Clan. A 
beach party was held at Santa Monica 
Beach.
At about six o'clock tho merrymak
ers began to gather at tho hoaeh, com
ing from all sections of Los Angelos.
Tho ladlos In tho crowd prepared 
coffee, and there was food and water
melon to complete the menu.
After tho luncheon ovoryone sat nt 
tho foot of tho palisades and watehod 
tho white caps break. Roll call was 
taken and there woro forty presont, 
although Los Angelos only boasts of 
thirty-olghl; members. The bonch 
party was ended by Carnoglo songs, 
which woro led by Mr, Crawford, an 
nldilinOr, and Tlorb Polonle,
Tho party thou adjourned to the 
La Monica bull room, and danced 
away tho remaining hours.
Prettily Exproonod.
A young nephew M mine adores hi 
grandmother. lie Im Intense In al 
things and In school, which Is new t< 
him, the little arithmetic taught liluv 
appealed to him more than anything 
Oise. Last week his grandmother bad 
her seventieth birthday. He handed 
her Ills little gift and, kissing her. said, 
"Dear grandmother, I hope that you 
will like this, and that you will live 
to add another cipher to your age." 
IDxchange.
i
TECH 
CONFECTIONERY
Come to us for your lunches and 
good French pastry.
323 SOUTH CRAIG  j JOSEPH SCOLO
Do you think that floral 
eloquence will win her?
\ <Tch Flower Shoi
1 4527 FORBES ST. to&K "K&.
HAAS PHONE SCHENLF-rSBWWfgjg 4272 (77"
Thores many a slip between the 
trat pin and the diamond ring.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Oakland Savings & | 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital..........................$300,000.00 %
Surplus.........................$300,000.00 '
Deposits, Over * -  $f>,000,000.00 |
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT$
Fate of "First of the Tribunes.'1
On the eighth of October iu 1351 
Itienzl, the Italian patriot, who headed 
a revolution at Home which overthrew 
the power of the aristocracy, was kill
ed. He had been placed at the head 
of the Roman government under the 
title of tribune of the people. His suc
cess went to his head and he was 
finally killed in a riot which his illconsidered conduct had provoked.
Do you romember Carnegie Fatli 
ers day, of laBt year, what a good 
time yooiir Dad enjoyed, how proud 
you were to show him over tho 
campus, and to have him meet the 
"dear brothers."
November 1 is the day we are 
setting aside this year so that all our 
Dads who were too busy to get here 
last year will havo an opportunity 
to see for himself all the things 
we liav-e been trying to tell him 
about and to absorb a little of the 
old campus spirit.
Now is the time for the fraterni
ties and dormitories to plan for the 
accommodation and entertainment of 
Dad during his stay here. You will 
remember what a dandy program we 
had arranged last year, beginning 
with an inspection tour, and ending 
with a dance in the Union. Follow
ing the plan of last year there will 
be an inspection of the school, after 
which luncheon will bo served in he 
different fraternity houses and in the 
Commons.
Those who will function in the ca
pacity of a committee to arrange the 
dotlnlto program for Fathers Day 
have not been selected, but things 
will start moving very shortly.
President Baker will write a cir
cular letter of invitation and 'wel
come to our guests. Although tills 
letter w'lll bo addrossod to the fath
ers of students, mother will) bo more 
than welcome, and will enjoy the 
day as much as dad. Alumni and 
their parents are also cordially In
vited. Students should write home 
urging mother and dad to visit.
Malwy Archipelago.
When you leave the east coast of 
Africa, you strike across the Indian 
ocean, following the equator, which 
cuts Sumatra rind Borneo In halves. 
It Is In the forests of those great Is
lands that our somewhat less near rel
atives, the orang-outangs, reside. All 
of the Malay archipelago (which prop
erly Includes tin; Philippines) might 
bo described as a partly submerged 
continent, and no great; amount of 
geologic uplift would be required to 
convert: It Into a single land mass 
nearly as big as Australia.
CITY or DETROIT
SEEKS ENGINEERS
i-TELESCOPE
Put on a Variety of Plays 
During the Summer at 
Elverhoj, N. Y.
Last summer a group of six peo- j 
pie, connected or at one time con-1 
nected with the Drama Department, 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology,  
operated a stock company at Elver- i 
hoy Art Colony on the Hudson. The I 
company was composed of Dorothy 
Schull, now in New York, Miss Mar- j 
guerite Harmon, Miss Althaea Crulkshank, John Beistel of the Cleveland 
Playhouse, William Dickey and 
Janies Resley of the drama depart
ment at Carnegie Tech. The com
pany was under the direction of Au-na IC. Dice and! Hubert Osborn, who 
are also of tho drama department.
A period of eleven weeks were oc
cupied in this way. Four plays were 
produced and one revived. Each play 
had a run of two weeks with per
formances on Wednsday and Satur
day evenings. The plays produced 
were: Importance of Being Ernest,* 
by Oscar Wilde; Her Husband's 
Wife," by A. E. Thomas, The Ty
ranny of Tears, by C. Haddon 
Chambers, and "Mammas Affair," by 
Rachael Barton Butler and the last, 
a Harvard' prize play, was put on 
in New York.
The group are planning to return 
to Elverhoy, where enthusiastic audi
ences await them. Tho company 
was well received and plan to make 
it their permanent summer work. 
The group went into the rustic thea
ter, bare of any theatrical devise, ex
cept a stage and a trough for foot
lights. Two weeks of hard work 
found the stage ready for a threeact play with a change of scenery. 
When curtains were  raised on the j 
first night, audible gasps could be 
heard from the audience and such | 
remarks as Unbelievable," How 
did they do it?" Light board, light 
bridge and dimming system had been 
installed.
The company financed themselves, 
built their own scenery, some of the 
furniture, got props together, re
hearsed and put on a good show 
every two weeks.
Among the visitors were Fritz 
Llsber and wife, Harold Kiel and 
wife of Hearsts International and 
Miss Levin of the Theater Quilld. 
All1 were quite enthusiastic and wish
ed thoy could remain with the 
group.
We point with pride to:
1. The football teams.
2. The Night School Registration
totals.
3. The Kiltie Band.
4. The Remodeled Field House.
5. The Carnegie spirit of the
Plebes.
6. The Alumni gathering on the
Pacific Coast.
W. & J. VS. CARNEGIE
"I|Former Student Has 
- Eliminated Squeak
This ancient enemy of the Plaid is 
going to see little Washington run 
over with Tartan supporters on Octo
ber 18. Elaborate preparations are 
being made to have the supporters 
make as good a showing as the team 
will. Nothing will be left undone. 
Hundreds of alumni are expected to 
attend. It will be like the old days, 
only more so.
AND THE NEXT WEEKPITT
The campus has not yet been 
smoothed out, but much progress has 
been made and there is every reason 
to hope for a greensward by next 
May.
The swimming pool is getting more 
and more popular. As all 'alumni 
know, the need for a swimming pool 
was long and keenly felt, it is there
fore no wonder that it is being used a 
great deal.
The old field house presents an en
tirely different appearance internally 
now, and all alumni who return must 
make it a point to see the remodeled 
place. From the viewpoint of the stu
dents in the dormitories it is about 
the most important addition to Car
negie in recent years.
Alumni, who have not yet reserved 
their seats fori the football games 
this fall had better make strenuous 
efforts to get their orders in soon. 
Carnegie football games are becom
ing more popular every year. Conse
quently seats are becoming harder to 
get.
Repose of the Ocean.
Scientific investigations go to show 
that the roaring waves and the might
iest billows of the ocean repose, not 
upon hard and troubled beds, but upon 
cushions of still water; that everywhere nt the bottom of the deep sea 
the solid ribs of the earth are pro
tected from the abrading action of its 
currents.
It has come to the attention of 
tho AlumnhStndnnt Placement Bureau 
that the Department of Water Sup
ply or tho City of Detroit, Mich., ex
pects to develop a now water supply 
system In the next fow years. Tho 
estimated cost of this system is 
thirty million dollars.
An ouitllno speclfl carton present
ing the requirements or each position 
lias been prepared and is given be
low'.
According to the charter' of the 
City of Detroit, tho successful appli
cants must meet the requirements 
of the Civil Service Commission. Ap
plicants for any or the positions 
should submit with their applica
tions, a complete statement of edu
cation, experience and references. 
All applications must be made by 
mail and addressed to George F. 
Fenkell, General Manager, 176 East 
Jefferson avenue, Detroit, Mich. The 
final date for the receipt of applica
tions has not been set, but it will
ot exceed twro weeks.
Bumiefie Fishrles.
At: auotlons of leases of government 
fisherles In Burina only Barman flshcrmen or Ihelr doseondants aro nllowed to hld. Thls mie, In force for 
fifty yoars, limita competition and 
keeps spoculators Troni ralslng Ilio 
prlce of fish, tho food of mllllons.____
The campaign to substitute the dis
tinctive name "Carnegie for the com
mon name of "Tech in the minds of 
the public is gaining headwray. Alum
ni are behind the movement, for they 
have felt its necessity, and were, In 
fact, the originators of tho demand 
for the change.
Dad Whyte returned again to the 
campus for a few days this fall.
Pocket Flashlight.
The host help in a kitchen is a small 
pocket flashlight, kept In a corner of 
the kitchen cabinet for using when it 
Is necessary to go into the dark cellar 
or to find something In the bottom of 
tho cupboard or In any of the other 
dark corners which are in every house. 
It is safer than a candle and does not 
require a match, and the light can be 
thrown without difllculty into the dark
est spot.
Cheerful Thought.
Bonham"Man Is descended from 
flie monkey." Mrs. Benhnm"I can 
readily imagine , your ancestors as 
traveling companions for hand or
gans/^____________________________________
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
Acacia630 Clyde Stroet .............................................
Alpha Tau Omega25-1 Bellefield Street.............
Beta Sigma Rho2136 Wightman Street...........
Beta Tlieta Pi5549 Forbes Street.....................
Delta Chi Rho140S Wightman Street................
Delta. Mu1C55 Shady Avenue..............................
Delta Phi Delta356 North Craig Street...........
Delta Tau Delta5064 Forbes Street..................
Delta Upsilon4S12 Baum Boulevard....................
Iota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins Avenue...........
Kappa Epsilon4732 Center Avenue..................
Kappa Sigma624 Clyde Street.............................
Kappa Sigma Rho144 Amberson.........................
Pi Ivappa Alpha4S07 Baum Boulevard...........
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbes Street.........
Sigma Epsilon Plii4929 Forbes Street..............
Sigma Nu4921 Forbes Street................................
Theta Xi5017 Forbes Street....................................
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forbes Street....................
....................Hilaiul 9380
................Schenley 9102
......................Hazel 9310
.......................Hazel 3320
......................Hazel 9494
.......................Hazel 93-15
.............Schenley 0721-J
................Schenley 9231
................Schenley 9196
......................Hazel 9356
................Schenley ---------
....................Hiland 9544
....................Hiland 9127
___....Schenley 92S5
................Schenley 9211
................Schenley 9122
................Schenley 0659
..................Schenlev 9143
........................Hazel 9422
Novei Arrangement Will As
sist Radio Work
*'*v ' W v ** C* v v *1* o- ;
Cleaning Pressing
The Schenley' 
Tailor Co.
420 SOUTH CRAIG 
Next door to gents furnishers. 
TAILOR FOR THE STUDENTS 
We do first-class altering for 
reasonable prices. 
Prompt Delivery Service. 
Schenley 1538 
Dyeing Repairing
DEPARTMENT OF WATER SUPPLYCITY OF DETROIT 
DIVISION OF ENGINEERINGWATER SUPPLY
Qualifications required for Employes
Salary. Min. Age. Graduate.General Experience.Special Experience.
Asst. Eng. Intake, River 
and Land Tunnels
$1.200
to
$fi.'200
80 yrs.Civil Engr.
Asst. Engineer, Filtration.
1.200 
to 
SB,200
30 yra.Civil Engr.
Assistant Eng,, Power riant.
St,200 
to 
$5,200
SO yra.Moelmnieal
Engineer.
IV'ulgnlng Eng., Tunnols.
?!U0to
$1,200
27 yra.Civil Engr,
Designing Engineer, Filters,J.VI001
$4,200
2? yr*.Civil Engr.
Designing Engineer, Tower,
$n,:too
$1,200
27 yri*.Mechanical
Engineer.
Designing Eng., Structure.
$!5.:tooto
$4.200
27 yrx.Civil Engr.
Draftsman.
S.SOOtn
S;;,:ioo2 ! yrs.
Civil or 
Mechanical 
Engineer.
Draftsman.
$\soo
$.'.(>0021 yrs.Preferred.
Field Engineer,
$. '00
? ,.'!00
27 yra.Preferred.
Instrument Man.
$' '00 
i.\:oo22 jTs.Preferred.
o ,, . , 3 years tunnel design. Use of nir,
,n x, K nfi n5 shields, etc.. knowledge of founda-cnmhfied for Mem. Am. Soc. Civil tlon work> J>neSi reinforced conEngineers. crete, hydraulics of flow of water.
y 3 years in design of filters and npnfri KnKlnw!r'n? Sf imrtenant structures, knowledge ofqualified for Mem. Am. hoc. Civil concrete, hydraulics ofEngine. 
8 years in Mechanical Engineering years power and pump design, 
Work; ouulified for Mem. Am. Soc. knowledge of htation design, utrucMech. Engineera. turul engineering, foundations.
f> yearn in Engineering Work : 
nualllied for Antico. Mom. Am, Soc. 
Civil Engine.
r. your it in Engineering Work : 
Ululili. (1 for Awhoo. Mom. Am. Soc. 
Civil EnglnocrH.
N jvnrfi in M*chnnloiil Engineering
1 year design of tunnels, structures 
for hydraulic works, knowledge of 
concrete design, earth pressures,
1 year design of Qlters, basin*, res
ervoirs. knowledge of concrete doalgn, How of water, etc.
1 year on ilesltrn of steam turbine, 
centrifugal pumps, boiler plants.
Exp. in building construction, 
knowledge of stool design, rein
forced concrete.
Good draftsman nnd good lottcrer. 
Exp. in water supply or newer de
sign.
Good draftsman nnd rcxul letterer. 
Mathematics up to and incl. trigon
ometry.
Exp. on tunnel or hydraulic work, 
surveying. Mathematics up to and 
incl. trigonometry.
Graduate or ono years work with Mathematics up to and incl. trigtransit and level. onometrj.
r. years in Civil Engineering AVork ; 
nuiitUled for Assoc. Mom. Am. Soc. 
Civil Engineers.
years in drafting room.
engineering drafting.
Preferrd. 5 years. Two years in field work.
SEE MARTIN
FOR GOOD THINGS TO EAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG 
M. PASQUINELLI
Frank S. McCall, a graduate of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology and 
now secretary and chief engineer for 
the CalL'worth Radio Corporation, has 
emblazed his name in the hall of 
fame. He has performed the unfor
ge table service to mankind of taking 
the squeak and howls out of theradio.
His invention, the latest and ia 
many ways the most remarkable in 
recent years, concists of a new cir
cuit, or system of neutralization. It 
is vouched for by dozens of radio 
experts throughout the country. It 
is simple iu construction and can. 
readily be operated by the layman 
and will automatically compensate 
or any slight variation in the ex
ternal coupling that might occur. A 
Chicago set equipped with the re
ceiver is said to. have discovered 
several five and ten watt phone sta
tions -within a radius of 100- miles 
and to have shown no tendency to 
break over on the lower -wave 
lengths.
Y. M. C. A. Membership 
Campaign Starts Today
Plans have finally been completed 
for the Y. M. C. A. membbership en
rollment which will start immediately 
after assembly on Tuesday, October 
7. Tho committees in the different 
schools havemet, and the enthusiasm, 
of the solicitors need only be recip
rocated by tho student bodyto assure 
complete success. The organization 
of the committees in charge of the 
enrollment is complete to the most 
minute detail.
The aspirations of the committee 
are that the quota will be reached 
and will even be exceeded. The so
licitation of the faculty produced 
amazing results and can well be
cited as an example for the student 
body, especially the Industries facul
ty who came through with 100 per 
cent. The committee was greatly en
couraged by the backing received 
from the faculty. The students
should realize that the faculty under
stands tho conditions and studies, 
the needs and remedies prevalent on 
the campus. When they have faith in 
an organization they get behind it
and push it to the front. The co
operation of the faculty does not only 
Include its response to the enroll
ment. The Y is very grateful to 
Professor *Asclvo of the Art Depart
ment for the inspiring poster he 
painted.
It IS now on display in the Com
mons and a reproduction of it will be 
seen on every Y pamphlet which 
will soon appear on tho campus.
The activities, benefits, and influ
ences of tho "Y have been men
tioned before, but it is still in a stage 
of development and keeps adding to 
this list. The JC Y Club, one of its 
latest projects, is practically well un
derway. Weekly meetings are to be 
held and a program, containing 
prominent speakers, has been laid 
out. All "Hi Y men are urged to 
register at the office and aid in the 
formation of the C Y club.
The activity around the Y office 
is very noticeable; members of the 
faculty or the student body can be 
found in there, seeking information, 
or just dropping in for a chat, at any 
hour of the day. The need of a 
larger office to accommodate these 
people is realized by- all and it Js 
hoped that plans to enlarge the office 
will materialize.
To accomplish all that it plans to 
do the Y n^eds moneyvand the stu
dents are only _ asked to realize that 
the Y stands for service and that 
it needs their support to be of greater 
service. It is a students organiza
tion and it is a definite .way by means 
of which the student may aid in build
ing up a.* greater and finer Carnegie 
Tech.
Have your money -with you on Octo
ber 7, S, 9 and 10, and help to boost 
the *Y'\
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
THE ONLY 
SQUIRREL HILL 
^FLOVEI? SHOP
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
Pythias
"I certainly am. Id do anything 
in the world for you. Yes, auttthingl
Dam ou
"All rightprove it I Give me back 
that Eldorado pcncil you borrowed 
last night."
No3CX3A
~l/ie master dmwuigpendr
J7 lr*Jir*" 4,o
i
COLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
