JUNIOR PROM 
FRIDAY 
PGH. COUNTRY CLUB
REGISTRATION 
LANGLEY LAB.
JAN. 31 FEB. 1
VOL. XXII No. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1928
SECOND SEMESTER 
REGISTRATION HELD 
NEXT TUES. AND WED.
All Classes to Register on 
Same Days; Special Students 
Will Register on February 2
INCREASE EXPECTED 
IN FRESHMAN CLASS
AH Classes Will Be Resumed Feb
ruary ,2; Students Fined 
For Late Registration.
Registration of Day students of 
Carnegie for the second semester will 
begin Tuesday, January 31 and con
tinue until Wednesday, February 1. 
As usual, the registration and pay
ment of fees will be made from 9:00 
a. m. to 11:30 a. m. and from 1:00 p. 
m. to 4:00 p. m. in Langley Labora
tory opposite Central Building. The 
number of registrants for the second 
semester will probably be about the 
same as the number who registered 
the first semester with a probable in
crease in the Freshman Class.
All day students should report as 
indicated below, early in the morning 
of January 31, for the arrangement 
of a second semester schedule. The 
Freshmen of the Colleges of Engin
eering and Industries are to report to 
the Office of the Dean of Freshmen 
in Industries Building. The other 
students of the College of Engineer
ing and the College of Industries 
should report to the Head of their 
department. All- of the students of 
the College of Fine Arts will arrange 
their schedules at the offices of the 
Heads of their Department. The 
Freshmen of Margaret Morrison Car
negie College should report in Room 
101 and the other students of Margaret 
Morrison to the Head of their Depart
ment. After the schedules have been 
prepared in quadruplicate, they must 
be taken to the Office of the Director 
for approval.
Students who have been in attend
ance during the first semester are re
quired to make the second payment 
of the Institute Fees. Those who 
were students previous to last year 
will pay $90.00 tuition and $5.00 stu
dent activities, and those who en
tered last year will pay $150.00 tui
tion and $5.00 student activities fee. 
Students expecting to graduate in 
1928 are required to pay the diploma 
fee of $5.00 and where a thesis is part 
of the graduation requirements, the 
fee is $10.00.
Before second semester classes be
gin, laboratory deposits must be made. 
Payments may be made to the 
Cashier in the Registration room dur
ing the registration. A schedule of 
laboratory charges is posted on the 
official bulletin boards, and is pub
lished in the catalogue of each col
lege.
Students are required to register in 
person as registration by proxy is not 
permitted.
All part-time students who are reg
istered during the first semester in 
courses in Normal Art, Music, or 
Home Economics, and who wish to 
schedule work for the second semes
ter may register during January or 
the week of January 30. The offices 
of the Registrar and the Cashier are 
open during the day until 4:00 p. m. 
except on Saturday when it is open 
until 12:00. They are open on week
day evenings except Saturday from 
7:00 to 9:00 p. m. S'uch students 
must present at registration a sched(Continued on Page Five.)
RALPH HITCHCOCK IS NEW
ARTS JUNIOR PRESIDENT
Ralph Hitchcock was elected presi
dent of the Junior Class of the Arts 
School. The race for president was 
a close affair between Hitchcock and 
Thomas Lewis. A revote had to be 
cast last Thursday, January 19, which 
decided the election in favor of Hitch
cock. Hitchcock is a junior in the 
Painting and Decorating Course. He 
is a guard on the varsity basketball 
team, a member of Delta Skull, junior 
honorary Bociety, a member of the 
Beta Theta Pi Fraternity, and of the 
Y. M. C. A. Cabinet.
Campus Week Will Be 
Celebrated Two Days 
Is Councils Decision
Mardi Gras Will be Elimin
ated; Mens and Women's 
Prom Budgets Accepted
In accordance with the recommen
dations of the Faculty Executive Com
mittee and the Executive Committee 
of the Council, Student Council at 
its meeting on January IS agreed to 
certain changes in the celebration 
known as Campus Week at Carnegie 
Tech. The Faculty Committee stipu
lated that Campus Week for 1927-1928 
should be moved forward in order that 
it should not conflict with examina
tions, that it should be confined to a 
period of two days, that there should 
be less decorations and that there 
should be no Mardi Gras. The Coun
cil carried the motion'that Campus 
Week for 1927-1928 be limited to two 
days, that it be held sometime in May, 
and that there be no event called the 
Mardi Gras." This motion metftis 
that if the Administration approves 
the plan, Campus Week will be held 
this year with only a few unimportant 
changes. The name Campus Week 
will be retained and the event will 
probably continue to be a popular 
tradition and annual festive occasion 
at Carnegie Tech.
The budget from the Tartan was 
discussed and the matter of an ap
propriation for additional salaries wa3 
left to the Executive Committee. The 
budget for the Womens Junior Prom 
was presented and at the recommen
dation of the chairman of the Social 
Events Budget Committee was ac
cepted by the Council. The next mat
ter brought before the Council was 
the Mens Junior Prom Budget; a mo
tion that the items concerning the 
Hall and Banquet be investigated was 
carried; it was decided that the dis
tribution of complimentary tickets for 
the Prom should be under the super
vision of the Executive Committee.
Before adjourning the Council con
sidered the letters from the Aviation 
Club asking permission of the Coun
cil to be recognized and to function as 
 an official organization. This request 
was granted.
Movies More Diverting Than Novels 
To Students In Their Leisure Time
COLLEGE PRESS OFFERS
JOB TO STUDENT REPORTER
More books are being read today ] Motion pictures have thus become 
than ever before. Such is the state-1 the mint sauce of college life. There 
ment that was made at Convention of | is probably no type of entertainment 
American Book Publishers in New 
York last week.
Since college students are neces
sarily included in the incipient back
ground of the illiterate it is interest
ing to note the types of literature that 
students on our campus read in their 
leisure time.
After a short survey on the subject, 
it was found that very little outside 
reading is ever attempted at Carnegie 
on account of the exigent demands of 
the technical courses. A great many 
students, however, confessed an ad
diction to the weekly jitney gazettes.
Short stories, that can be read quickly, 
are favored, but, for the most part, 
students would rather go to the movies 
than dissipate their energy on a book.
The Intercollegiate Press presents 
a worthwhile offer to anyone on the 
1 campus who is both capable and 
willing to contribute weekly stories 
and pictures of college life. The op
portunity is an exceptional one for 
At the right person who has had somethat requires less grey matter, 
the movies, collegians can see them- j experience wit h newspaper Work. The
selves glorified in pictures of college j job offers good money and is one that
life, and, in a way, ,be consoled that, could be accomplished in spare time, 
the modern cafeterias of learning look i Anyone interested in tho proposition 
like Utopias in the eyes of Hollywood. Iis urged to communicate immediately
Some students, nevertheless, read j with Intercollegiate Press, Oberlin, 
good books. But they are in the ini- ^
nority. Western stories, tale of the 
Northwest, and Elinor Glynn are rare
ly considered. Courses in English lit
erature serve as the fiha^ shred of in- [ 
spiration.
Newspapers, strangers it may seem, 
are religiously read by most students. |
And this fact has proved more amus
ing since William Randolph Hearst | 
blew into Pittsburgh on a gusto of | 
pale peach journalism.
Glee Club Preparing 
For Intercollegiate 
Contest This Month
CARNEGIE RADIO NIGHT 
TO START FEBRUARY 14
Program Will Include Band and 
Orchestra Numbers, Plays 
and Cheers.
Carnegie Tech Radio Night will be 
formally inaugurated on Tuesday 
night, February 14, when a one-hours 
program will be broadcast from Sta
tion KDKA by remote control from 
Carnegie Music Hall. The program is 
now being arranged by a committee 
of faculty members and students.
The program will be presented from
SHAKESPEARE LOVERS TO 
HEAR THREE LECTURES
Columbia Professor Will Discuss 
The Works of the Eng
lish Bard.
All students and lovers of Shakes
peare will have an opportunity, Feb
ruary G, 7, and 8, in the Little Thea
ter, to hear a series of three lectures 
by Albert Feullerat, L. L. D., one of 
the worlds foremost authorities on 
Shakespeare. Dr. Feuillerat is Prothe stage of the Music Hall, and any-1 fessor of English at the University of 
one who cares to attend the perform- Rennes and is at present yisiting the 
ance is welcome. It is a bit too early j Unito(t Stat0s Um.|nK h,8 here 
to give the full details of the pro-i^,, ................ /
gram, but it will include the bestDr. Feuillerat is acting in the capactalent that can be gathered from the -^y ol> Visiting Professor at Columbia 
Carnegie Campus. The committee of i for the school year 1927-2S, and at 
arrangements is headed by Professor I Johns Hopkins University as Turn? 1,0 bolus by 1 bull Lecturer on Poetry. 'J. Vick O'Brien, B. Iden Payne, *
Chester Wallace, Victor Saudek, and 
John D. Beatty. Professor Wallace ; e?al 8U^ject
Feuillerat has chosen as a gonfor his lectures, Th
Five Schools Already Entered; 
Annual Home Concert 
Set for March 23
Tlie Mens, Glee Club will give its 
first public concert on Thursday, Feb
ruary 2, in the auditorium of the 
Edgewood High School. The pro
gram arranged for this appearance 
will include the best selections in the 
clubs repertoire, the same program 
being used, with probably a few
changes, for the concerts prosented 
during the remainder of tho season. 
A second concert will be prosented in 
Monongahela City, on February 9,
and others will be scheduled in the 
near future.
Plans i!or the Inter-Collegiate Glee 
Club Contest of Pennsylvania are now 
being completed by the committee in 
charge. The contost is set for Friday, 
February 24, and will be hold in tho 
Carnegie Music Hall. Up to tho pres
ent time live schools have entered the 
competition; Allegheny, Bucknoll,
Juniata, Penn 3'tate, and Carnegie.
has agreed to do the announcing. Poetry of Shakespeare." In tho first  ** *1UH n,)l nK iHtsnShakespeareThe program will consist of selec- j lejcture of tho series,tions by the Kiltie Band, the sym-1  , ..., ,  H , J aijd Descriptivephony orchestra of the Department i
of Music, the String; Ensemble, and i Shakespeares
the Mens, Glee Club. There will also | poems, Venus and Adonis," is anabe various special numbers such as lyzed to show how 'Sfhakespearo was
vocal -and instrumental solos and! lnfluenced by th0 arfficialUy andprobably two short plays by the Drama | , ,Department. Tho cheer leaders will I ovor-olaboffttion of his time, but was
MENS JUNIOR PROM 
FRIDAY EVENING AT 
PGH. COUNTRY CLUB
Committee for Mens Prom 
Announce Lists of Patrons, 
Patronesses and Chaperones
WHITEY KAUFMANS 
ORCHESTRA TO PLA Y
All Preparations For Prom Com
pleted As Time For 
Dance Approaches.
This Friday evening brings to a cli
max the month's work of the Men's 
Junior Prom Committee. Under th^ 
leadership of the chairman, Ted Zeiik, 
committee has endeavored' totho
bring to tho upper classmen of-'Car
negie a Prom which shall excel ail 
others in brilliancy, decorations, fav
ors, and in everything else which goea 
toward the success of a social affair 
of this magnitude.
A most distinguished list of patrons 
and chaperones has been secured for 
the Junior Prom. The list of patrons 
includo: Dr. Thomas S. Baker, Mr.
and Mrs. Frank J. Lanahan, Dean 
Mary Watson Green, Dean and' Mrs. 
Arthur W. Tarbell, Director and Mrs. 
ClilYord B. .Connelley, Director Mary
B. Breed, Director and Mrs. Williara 
E. Mott., Director and Mrs. Arthur C. 
Jewett, Diroctor Glondinning1 Ktaebloi, 
Director and Mrs. Roscoe M. Ihrig, 
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick E. Berquist 
and Registrar and Mrs. Alan Bright.
A noteworthy list of Chaperones 
has also been secured: Prof. and
Mrs. Robert B. Loighou, Prof. and 
Mrs. Charles C. Leeds, Prof. and Mr. 
William R. Work, Prof. and Mrs. Nor
wood MacGllvary, Prof. and Mrs. J.
C. Morehoad, Prof. and Mrs. Harry S. 
How or, Prof. and Mrs. IT. C. LonR, 
Prof. and Mrs. II. K. Klrk-Patrlck, Dr. 
William L. Marks, Mr. and Mrs. Rob
ert N. Waddell, and Mr. and Mrs. M. 
L. Carroll, Jr.
A. I. E. Er Start Extensive 
Campaign For Membership
An extensive membership campaign 
has been started by the Carnegie 
Chapter of the American Institute of 
Electrical Engineers. The recent con
vention and important meetings have 
made not only the electricals but the 
whole school realizes that this organi
zation is an important part of the ac
tivities and. social life of the school. 
Therefore, it is important to each 
electrical student that he enhance his 
campus prestige by identifying him
self with this organization.
Next semesters A. I. E. E. program 
will be varied and interesting. In ad
dition to several of the well-lilced stu
dent talks and talks by men of in
dustrial fame, the A. I. E. E. smoker 
will be held, probably in February, 
and the banquet will take place later. 
No non-member wil be present at 
these affairs.
It is sincerely hoped that by the 
time of the A. I. E. E. smoker, every 
electrical upper classman will have 
joined, giving a symbol of the esprit 
de corps for which the electrical de
partment is well known.
Senior Ball Committee To 
Sponsor Tea Dance Feb. 2
Under the auspices of the Ways and 
Means Committee of the Womens 
Senior Ball, the girls of the 1928 class 
in M. M. C. C. and the Arts College 
will give a Tea Dance in the Union at 
4:30, February 2. The purpose of the 
dance is primarily to secure funds for 
the elaborate formal dance which the 
senior women give annually.
The Tea Dance will doubtless have 
a large attendance since Owens Or
chestra is to furnish the music. An
other reason for believing that the 
Union will be crowded with dancers 
is the nominal charge; thirty-five 
cents for the men and absolutely 
nothing for the women. Tickets, 
which will be tags displaying scarlet 
hearts on a white background, will be 
sold on the Campus today and tomor
row.
An unusually feature of the dance 
will be the prizes awarded to dancers 
who are on certain parts of the floor 
when the music stops.
It is, of course, essential that the 
Tea Dance have the support of the 
school, especially of the senior class, 
since the Ways and Means Commit
tee, composed of Betty Calvin and Dot 
Smith, together with Alice Mclnnes, 
treasurer of the occasion are- depend
ing upon returns from this occasion 
to make the Senior Ball even more 
successful than usual.
also be on hand to lead the audience 
in a few familiar football yells. Bud
dy Overend, the congenial graduate 
manager, will, in all probability, send | 
a short message of greetings to the i 
alumni throughout the country.
genius enough to give the ring of sin
cerity and realism to his poetry. In 
his second lecture, Dr. Feuillerat 
shows Shakespeare's use of the son
net and the importance of the story
| running through the entire group of
THE DOGGONE HOT ISSUE | "a"""]tl,r0W8 a "ow "Khton tho dark ilady and rival portOF PUPPET COMES JAN. 31! who havqi such a prominent place in
__________ I Shakespeare's sonnets. In the third
When you come down about the \ lecture. ifhe Poetical Element in
LAST Y TEA IN M. M. WOMENS 
FACULTY ROOM, WEDNESDAY
The Y. W. C. A. will hold the last of 
the series of Examination Teas, 
Wednesday, January 25, from 3 to 5, 
in the Women's Faculty room in Mar
garet Morrison. Charlotte Wardale 
wiil act as hostess. Every woman 
student, whether she be a Y'' 'mem
ber or not, is cordially invited to at
tend.
first of next month to register for your 
next term you will find the best Puppet of the year waiting for you. It 
is the Doggone Hot number com
posed entirely by the Alumni and 
looked forward to by the older stu
dents.
One of the hottest things about the
Shakespeares Dramas, Dr. Feuillerat 
shows Shakespeare as the true poetdramatist, in As You Like It, the 
perfect type of Shakespeares ro
mantic comedy, and in King Lear, 
the climax of his poetical conception 
of tragedy.
Dr. Charles E. K. Mus, director of
Puppet is its cover drawn by Larry research of the Eastman Kodak ComStultz, an artist from Carnegie who; Pany is also giving a series of lechas won national fame. Why, this tures, February 29, March 1 and 2.
cover will make those used by Life \ His subject will cover Theory and
and Judge look like iStonday School i 1 ^hnique of Photography.
\ Mus whose lecture will be given 
j30 in the evenings of the days 
luled, has been director of the 
frch laboratory at the Eastman
magazine covers. ,
All of the former editors and ar
tists of the Puppet for the last eight 
years have come back to give their 
best to their magazine. Hardie Al
bright, Ted Repplier and a whole regi
ment of Alumni joke writers are back 
to make Puppet a pattern for College 
Humor.
By the time you have finished read
ing your Alumni number, the staff will 
have the True Love number ready 
for you. This will be out in time for 
Valentine Day which comes on Febru
ary 14. It will be a great number to 
send home to that certain party as a 
Valentine.
(Continued on Page Two)
I<OL-.k Company since 1912.
~*Axnegie considers herself fortunate 
eing able to offer such an outfnding series of lectures to student 
b-flly, faculty and friends.
I Ralph Hitchcock, newly elected 
President of the Junior Class in Arts
tion of entering. Tho commlttoe1 of 
Petry," ono or I Jwlges luis soloeted lor thls yoar's, 
most well-knowJl'ri song "Broken Melody by Slbo-,
lina, cucii club boing roqulrml to '"B Idiool. wlll load tho Orami March at 
Ibis as ono of Its threo soloctlons.  (ho Mons Junior Proni. Last year tho 
Tho Glee Club lias beon spondlng > march was lod by Prosldent Johnson 
mucti timo on Ulte oomposlUon ita wall f tho Industries'Junior Ciana whlle1 noxt year tho Prosldont of tho JuniorZut, Zut, Zut by Elgar, which willClass of Engineering will have thobe sung as the choice song. OUvnog|p distinction of loading the Grand Marcii 
will also sing Dear Old Tooh in a. at the Junior frolic.
new arrangement, by Harvey B. Claul | 
and Waltor SIclcles. While the judges j 
are making their docision tho clubs, 
will sing Song of Thanksgiving en
semble, after which the prize will bo 
awarded to the winning club. Tho 
prize consists of a silver loving cup 
aiul the honor of singing in the final 
competition hold in Now York.
Carnog|os Club is making every 
effort .to be successful in this years 
meet, since they were defeated by 
Penn State last year in a very close 
judgement. Mr. Gaul, the director, 1 
setting the standard higher in order 
to eliminate all but the best material 
on the campus. Walter J. Poyntz, 
student director will conduct the club 
at the contest. The tickets will be 
put on sale on the campus within a 
few weeks.
The annual Home Concert will be 
presented m the Music Hall on March 
23. At this program the club will 
have practically completed the sea
sons activities, and a splendid pro
gram will be presented.
President Baker To Sail 
For Europe February 10
On February 10 President Baker 
will sail on the S. S. Berengaria for a 
few months' stay in Europe for the 
purpose of inviting the European na
tions to attend the Second Interna
tional Conference on Bituminous Coal, 
which will be held in November of 
this year at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. During the course of his 
journey he will,visit such countries as 
England, France, Germany, Austria 
and Italy.
As part of Jiis program abroad, the 
president will give a series of four lec
tures in Paris under the auspices of 
the Carnegie Endowment for Interna(Continued on Page Six)
Sophomores Take War Club To Freshmen
With Slogan Of Every Plebe A Pest
Tho tlckots raffled! olf at the Junior 
Prom Tea Dance, which was hold rocontly, wore won by Harry D.Morrlr, 
Sophomoro Commercial, and ICvan 
Jones, a Sophomore Eloctrlcu.1,
An deal location has boon secured, 
ono which is exclusive as well as at
tractive. This is tho first afTair of 
this kind which lias ever been given 
at the Pittsburgh Country Club by,an. 
outside organization. Leon Hart man 
with the most generous assistance oK 
Mr. F. J. Lanahan, managed to engagethis desirable ballroom for the occa
sion. The Country Club is situated I 
on a private drive which connects vyitbj 
Beech wood boulevard!.
The cab fare is between 75 and 8i> 
cents from school.
Tom Cannon, head of the social 
(Continued on Page Three.)
DRAMA DEPARTMENT TO 
STAGE CLOSE HARMONY
Watch your step Plebe! All regula
tions chairmen promise to tighten 
down this next semester. The sopho
mores are on the war-path with their 
c.ry, "Every Plebe a Pest.
In Science the already strenuous 
campaign under Mr. F. E. Foote will 
be revised to enhance and elevate 
regulations and sophomores in the 
yes of freshmen. The sophomores 
a.re being called to the cause into a 
reat super-organization. Two very 
capable judges, Donald Callon and 
Ni*lls Cox, Kappa Sigma Rho, have 
administered justice (?) very capa
bly One of them after intensive rosea!1'ill Js writing a book on What's 
Lowt]v than a Plebe?
Close Harmony, a comedy in 
three acts by Elmer Rice and Dorothy 
Parker will be the .next offering oi 
the season by the Drama department. 
The play opens Thursday, January 26, 
and is scheduled for a two-weeks run 
in the Little Theater as well as for 
several outside performances.
Close Harmony will be the first
-------- j modern play presented this year. It
has had hard luck. They had three is an ultra-modern comedy of married 
haircuts slated, but everyone of the life in a small town centering around 
darn plebes flunked out. His honor, | the vicissitudes and perils which boMr. Hughes is tribunal in Industries, i set well-regulated families when a 
Arts men have been getting off easy. | beautiful, fascinating siren, a former 
They have had only occasional trials, j actress from Broadway settles in 
However, in the future they may ex-j their midst. Situations, of course, repect a permanent jury, who will train ' suit which cause much amusement.
plebes to follow the path of right. 
Perhaps more, but so far only three 
haircuts have been given.
Tiie women seem to think that men 
(?) keep regulations bettor than 
women. Perhaps because they have 
such heavy sentences.  Imagine how
Mrs. Ruth Perrott will play the part 
of the charming, captivating ex-ac
tress, a role which will give a wide 
scope for her versatile powers.
The loading male role in Close 
Harmony will be played by Don Me* 
CliuOi. Having established quite a
a fellow would feel whon he had to reputation as a character actor. Mcgo two whole weeks with black soxjClure, In this new play, has a straight 
and no cosmetics, unbearable. Why, ho part and fulfills all the expectations 
| might do what some young ladies do, of his numerous friends. This is
So^ie freshman broke regulations break down and cry. I Felix' last year with the Drama Doto if the committee was active. Still the most hardened miscreants partment.
They pvere. Five blows drove the dont. Guess who they are:the
idea h me. dramats. Unusual, don't you think?
Industries reports a similar cam- Remember then plebe, you are a 
paign u;nder Louisa Nielson. 1-Ie pest. And the chairman of every
promises more violent trials. Just i committee wants every sophomore
how violent, well...............! Industries out after you. / Watch!
r  - ' '    : i ' ' .   i
Mrs. Helena Gregg lias been cast 
as a narrow minded, small town wifewhose sweetness is not all it looks to 
be. Ruth Perrott and Helena Gregg 
were both last seen as Mary Ellen-io 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1928
tashions Gift to 
College Women
The collegian, always faithful to tlie 
sweater inode, will find new interest 
in the gaily different sweaters of 
Springtime. Their snug hip lines 
their graduated motifstheir metal 
weavestheir sheer modernism will 
receive her instant approval.
She will enjoy making her se
lections in the Ginibel Sports
wear Shop from these first fas
cinating arrivals.
Ail the World Is ^ 
Stealing Your Stuff
The college woman was first to see the indi
viduality of the self-assembled Sweater Cos
tumechoosing the sweater firstthen the 
harmonizing skirt and accessories. Now Fash
ion has made the Sweater Ensemble the 
basis of the new daytime mode. And Gimbels 
Sportswear Shop stocks are made up of things 
that go with sweaters.
Sweaters, $2.95 to $17.95
Silk Pleated Skirts, $7.95 to $14.95
Sweater Accessories, 50c to $3.50
VOL.XI No17CXoA
FORMERLY KAUFMANN L BAER CO.
GimbelsSportswear ShopThird Floor
FEB. 14TH CARNEGIE 
RADIO NITE AT KDKA
Alumni Arrange Radio Par
ties; Student Organizations 
on Program
Us ten, Alumni!
How would you like to round up' a 
gang of follow alumni, borrow or steal 
a. radio receiving set, and listen to an 
hours program direct from "Dear Old 
Tech? Or, if you happen to bo tho 
only person in your town who can 
claim Carnegie as your alma mater, 
bow would you like to make a date 
at homo some night and hear familiar 
voices from Pittsburgh come through 
the ether via your radio?
Sounds fishy, wo admit. Hut this is 
no hokum. Liston to this:
On Tuesday night, Kcoruary 14, wo 
have arranged with Station KDKA to 
hold a Carnegie Tech Radio Night 
which will include an hour's program 
of music, comedy, and what not, pre
sented by the best talent that can be 
mustered in Carnegie Music Hall. 
The date Is definite: Tuesday, Feb
ruary 14, from 10 p. m. to 11 p. m. 
The program is now being arranged 
by a committee of faculty and stu
dents; and all that remains for tho 
alumni to do is to arrange Radio 
Parties wherever possible for an 
evening of rare enjoyment.
Tho program will ho prosented on 
Che stage of the music hall and to 
make it seem more like a roal party 
aa far as the people here are con
cerned, the hall will be open to any 
who want to soe the various groups 
perform. IT you hear applause com
ing through the ether you will know 
that it is coming from a real audience. 
The night students will be invited to 
stop in after their classes, the day 
students who want to will be urged 
to attend, and maybe there will be 
some room for the general public.
Unfortunately, it is a bit too early 
to tell you full details of the program, 
except that it will bo very, very good. 
Professor Robert B. Lelgliou is head 
of the committee of arrangements, 
and Professors J. Vick OBrien, Iden 
Payne, and Chester Wallace are help
ing him to organize the program. Be
sides these, Clarence Overend, alumni 
secretary, is representing the inter
ests of tho alumni In the development 
of the affair, and it is likoly that 
Buddy will sond a short message of 
Kreetings to tho alumni throughout 
the country. Harvey Gaul, music 
critic and director of tho glee dubs, 
Victor Saudolc, director of tho KDKA 
Little Symphony Orchestra, John D. 
Beatty, secretary of tho bureau of 
recommendations and R. S. Clark, 
Publicity Director are also assisting 
in Uie plans; Mr. Saudolc will proba
bly take tho duties of stage manager 
and Professor Wallace has agreed to 
do the announcing.
Tentatively, wo can say at this time, 
tlie program will include music by 
fiie Kiltie Hand, tho symphony or
chestra of tho Department of Music 
under the direction of Professor 
OBrien, the string ensemble under 
direction of Professor Karl 
lUulchorok, ami tho mens Glee Club 
under the direction of Harvey Gaul. 
Tiii1? department of Drama, will pro
bably present at least two short 
plays, or scenes from plays, and boides, there will bo various special 
numbers such as vocal and lnstrumonf;il solos. Tho cheer loadors will bo 
on hand to send a familiar football 
irell through tho other occasionally In 
order to let the world know that Car
negie Tech is on tho air.
So there is the stony. We are 
tolling you about it at this early date 
\ that you will have plenty of time 
to organise your radio Parties." 
Write to Buddy as soon as your 
plans are made and maybe he will 
have time to send specific messages 
to tho various gangs when he stands 
before the mike on the evening of 
.Tuesday, February 14.
New Alumnus Appears Soon 
With Interesting Articles
Of Interest to all alumni should be 
the next Issue of the alumnus, being 
the first Issue of the new year. Work 
has been done on the new number for 
the past several weeks, and the copy 
Is now In the hands of the printer. 
The articles this month will be en
hanced by photographs and pictures.
An article and picture of Professor 
Gustafson who Is tho new head of our 
remodeled Printing Department, will 
be one of the Interesting features. A 
resume of what has been done and 
can be done in the way of student 
welfare work, is an article which our 
alumni should read, so as to get the 
proper perspective on some of our 
campus problems. A reprint of Bon 
Iden Paynes article, The Plays The 
Thing should be read by everyone 
who has not already done so. Tho 
picture and an article announcing a 
new trustee, William Moorhead, will 
also be Included In the new issue.
Every alumnus should read this 
number, in fact every number, and 
keep young with the things that are 
going on. Payment of your dues for 
the coming year will insure your re
ceiving it for the entire year, so just 
make out that check for three dollars, 
or four, if you are delinquent, ana 
mail It to Miss Andrews, the alumni 
secretary.
Alumni Issue of Puppet 
Has Many Grad Contribs
The Puppet offers for the approval 
of the alumni, as the first issue of 
the new year, the alumni number. 
This number met with great success 
last year, so it was decided to put out 
another number similar in nature 
this year. The new number will be 
out about February first.
Of course the important feature 
about the issue Is the fact that practi
cally all contributions are from the 
alumni. In this way, the best talent 
of many years has been combined In
to one grand and glorious issue. All 
kinds of cuts, jokes, sketches and 
what not are collected from the lead
ing ex-Puppeteers, who have con
tributed especially for this number.
Tho Puppet Hall of Fame which has 
been called upon for this number In
cludes such men as I-Iardie Albright, 
whose drawings and sketches graced 
the Puppet In very recent years; 
Tod Reppllor, a former editor; Larry 
Stulls, who has made a success of Ills 
drawing abilities In the commercial 
world; Eddie Couso, Willard Perkins, 
Herb Olsen, Bob Sclunertz, and 
others who are perhaps not so well 
known. Tho cover will be one of the 
attractive features, and has boon 
made with special caro by Earl Gross, 
whose ability Is attested by past 
performance.
Special arrangements are being 
made to mall Puppets to all alumni 
who want to got a copy of this issue. 
All you nood to do Is mall 25 conts to 
Puppet and you will get your Puppet.
F, J. Chesterman Gives Interesting
Talk On Training For Public Service
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
------and------
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS 
Service that Is distinctively 
appropriate. Comploto Monu If desired or moroly Caicos, Ico 
Groam and Pastry. Estlmatos 
on requestSTORE SERVICE 
CakesPastriesIco Creams IcesBread and Candles ideally made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for city delivery.Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
OC
9lliemcnG6y
CATERERS01UDT AMD PEN NAVE- PITTSDURC11
Finds Right 
Tobacco for 
tlie Tropics
October 6, 1926
Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va., U. S. A.Gentlemen:Most all well-known tobaccos smoke well in a cold or temperate climate, but very few in a tropical climate. They are mostly too heavy, dont seem to be blended rightat least that is my opinion gained from practical ex
perience.However, Edgeworth is the same in any climate. Again that is my opinion gained by practical experience.I cannot get the same pleasure out of any brand of tobacco that I can out of Edgeworth, and I have tried many and paid fancy prices, too. It costs real money to smoke imported tobaccos here; the import duty is very high.Anyway, we cannot have everything we would like in these countries, so we hold on to all the little pleasures possible. Now you know why I smoke 
Edgeworth.Yours respectfully,R. C. Rigg Cartagena, Columbia, S. A.Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
(jiitJHin
Dean A. C. Jewett, Director of the 
College of Industries, was chairman 
of a mooting of the Industrial Train-' 
Ing Section of the Pittsburgh Person
nel Association held in the Fort Pitt 
Hotel, on January 12, 1928. Jack
Boatty of tho student employment of
fice, Is secretary of this organization.
F. J. Chesterman, Vice President of 
the Boll Telephone Company, spoke 
at the meeting. The speech was en
titled Training Men and Women In 
The Telephone Business For Public 
Service.
Mr. Chesterman said:
The Bell System has recognized 
for some years passed, and Is realiz
ing more each year, the absolute ne
cessity for a systematic training of 
all their employees, and today there 
are relatively few positions for which 
a new man or woman does not re
ceive some form of preliminary train
ing, followed by definitely scheduled 
reviews and addition training.
I will discuss tho three general 
classes of employees which we take 
Into the telephone business.
1. Young women for the position 
of telephone operator.
2. Young men for the position of 
installer, lineman, central office main
tenance man.
3. College graduate with technical 
training or other qualifications.
1. Young Women for Position as 
Telephone Operator.
We are very careful in our selection 
of young women for telephone operat
ing, making sure that they possess 
the necessary qualifications which 
will develop them into first-class op
erators. We look into their school
ing, previous employment,, references, 
home conditions, physical qualifica
tions, general intelligence, personal 
appearance, deportment and perma
nency.
After a girl has passed a medical 
examination and her general health 
Is found to be good, she goes to the 
Training Department for a threeweeks preliminary course in tele
phone operating. One of the first 
things that is given the student im
mediately, is the value of discipline.
Students are led along from day to 
day from the simplest kind of con
nections and phrases, to the more 
complex ones, the development meth
od being used throughout by the in 
structors. The result of this training 
is that those who graduate from the 
operators school, are ready to handle 
a certain number of subscribers calls 
courteously and accurately.
An average operator does not reach 
her maximum efficiency until after 
about 12 months' employment.
The training in the Central Off^c# 
is under the direction of a super
visor who has eight to ten girls in 
her charge. There Is, in each Central 
Office, an instructor per 75 people 
who conducts small classes in voice 
culture, such as pleasing tone, the 
right inflection, operating technique, 
and new practices.
At least. 20 per cent of the positions 
which.our young women fill are su
pervisory positions and these are al
most without exception fRlod from 
tho ranks.
2. Training Young Men for Position 
of Installer, Lineman, Maintenance 
Man, etc.
Realizing that our business has a 
constant growth from year to year, 
and that a certain turnover occurs in 
our supervisory forces, It Is necossaijy 
that young men be employed wl^o 
can, In lator years, assume supervi
sory duties,
After befng taken on, the new man 
is at once placed in the Plant School, 
where lie is given the reasons f( r 
good public relations, manual exer
cises relating to his vocation, ti e 
theory involved in his work, names 
of tools, materials, equipment, and 
circuits, and the structure of tlie 
telephone organization.
Generally speaking, the Plant 
School work consists of four appren
tice grades which are given dur^g 
the first year of employmentsa 1- 
lowed by six advanced grades i ^e'h 
are dependent upon the initiatii] i)f 
the employee and the foreman. u e(*
Correspondence courses are 1 ^1%. 
ducted by the company, such as\^1(
1. Elementary electricity \PT.d 
magnetism as applied to Telephoi\e.
2. Elementary Theory of Trans
mission. Ic
3. Public Utility Economics. 
First aid and accident prevention
training is given "intensively during 
the winter months.
Courses for the training of fore
men are conducted continuously. 
Besides giving them advanced in
struction on their own particular 
line, we aim at the following:
1. To establish the habit of 
tive and constructive thinking.
2. To enable the foreman to in
terpret more intelligently and to exe
cute more successfully the Companys 
policy.
3. To increase the confidence of 
the foreman, which will enable him 
to handle his subordinates more ef
fectively.
4. To bring about a greater de
gree of co-operation and team work 
between all the foremen of the vari
ous departments of an organization.
5. To enable the foremen to bet
ter grasp the importance of their 
Work, a realization of the opportuni
ties within their present positions, and 
to create a better Esprit de Corps 
among the foremen.
3. Training College Men for Super
visory and Staff Positions.
The supervisory and staff functions 
are filled from two main sources:
1. Through the development and 
training of men from the ranks, and 
2. By the employment of college 
graduates with technical training or 
other qualifications.
These college men are employed 
immediately after graduation and are 
given a tliree-months course.
Regarding advancement, we make 
no distinction between college and 
non-college men. Advancement is 
based entirely upon merit and is not 
governed by seniority.
In summary, it is our idea to train 
men and women to be specialists in 
their own particular line and to have 
a thorough knowledge of the work of 
the other branches of the business.
CLAN NEWS
CLEVELAND
REGoS .TUXo OFHO7XA
MEMBERS OF TOUR 
TO LITTLE THEATER
The Cleveland Carnegie Clan held 
a very successful dinner and meeting 
at Bohanor-Halnes Restaurant on 
Tuesday evening, January 10. The 
usual number of momentous ques
tions were discussed, commented 
upon, and settled during the dinner. 
Immediately following the meal, Presi
dent May called the meeting to or
der for the election of a vice presi
dent to take the place of "Skinny 
Humbert who has taken a position in 
Detroit. O. K. Fulmer was elected to 
the office vacated by Mr. Humbert.
A theater party to be given at the 
"Playhouse was decided upon as the 
next social event for the clan. Mr. 
Lustenberger, issued a call for dues, 
and much to his surprise he immedi
ately received some money from sev
eral of the clan members. "Duke 
Emery gave a very interesting ac
count of his recent trip to France 
with his wife. Mr. Emery, being in 
the employ of the French Steamship 
Lines was able to give us some very 
helpful information concerning ocean 
travel.
The date of the next meeting will 
be set soon and the members notified 
by mail as usual. The following 
members were present at the meeting: 
Everhard, Frasche, Damon, Emery, 
Ebelina, Dowling, Jenkins, Lustenberger, Fulmer, May, Bateham, Minor, 
Dobric, Peance, and Wright.
GOLDEN GATE
THE DOGGONE HOT ISSUE
OF PUPPET COMES JAN. 31
(Continued from Pace One)
i Now a word to Fraternities, the 
| staff wants to see some of the pledges 
out for Puppet work. This is an ideal 
field for any pledge to become inter
ested in, and is one of the best activi
ties on the campus. So send out 
those men who dont care for athletics 
and let them make a name for them
selves and their fraternity.
Three new names have been added 
to the list of the Golden Gate Clan: 
Leroy Emeiich, who has been trans
ferred from Philadelphia by the Leeds 
Northrop Company, Lloyd Yoder, and 
H. A. Neutzenholzer.
The Clan has planed among its 
coming social events several trips to 
manufacturing plants with which its 
people are connected. The last trip, 
under the guidance of Mr. G. M. 
Whisler, proved a real success. We 
visited the Westinghouse High Volt
age Insulator plant and followed the
Pittsburgh -Mississippi - Gulf 
Tourists Guests of Pres. 
February 1
On February first the members of 
the Plttsburgh-Mississippi-Gulf Tour 
will be the guests of Dr. Baker at a 
special performance of the play 
"Close Harmony by the members of 
the Drama Department. In addition 
to the members of this Tour, which 
was sponsored by . tlie Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce, and their 
families, the invitation has also been 
extended to the participants of the 
dinner given at the Athletic Club on 
the evening of the 27th.
A short informal reception will 
take place immediately before the 
performance, which is scheduled to 
take place at eight-fifteen in the Lit
tle Theater of the College of Fine 
Arts.
It may be recalled that President 
Baker was a member of this Tour, 
which took place shortly before 
Christmas. It has been his purpose 
to have the members as his guests 
for some time, and the presentation 
of this special performance has given 
him an excellent opportunity to do so.
The assemblage at the Little The
ater on th evening of the first will 
include many of the most prominent 
men and women of Pittsburgh, and an 
excellent opportunity will be given 
faculty members for becoming  better 
acquainted with the business leaders 
of the district. The affair is formal 
n invitation.
entire process from first mixtures to 
the spectacular tests for breakage. A 
delightful lunch was served in the 
offices after the tour. The coming 
meeting is to be a dinner dance at 
the Hotel Whitcombe in San Fran
cisco.
i\o Violent UeatU tor Him.By FRANK RttlM.Y
LIFE AAE IS JU^T OhOGToUCrH DCiM- '----
ANOTHER. \]

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
VISION
PROGRESS
SERVICE
CHARACTER
FIFTH AVENUE
PRIZE CONTEST FOR 
New Literary Magazine
TITLE
Print name
Name ..............1...............................................
Retailing is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
UfMANNf
PITTSBURGH
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
EXHIBIT NOW.OPENThe Bagpipe
To Play At Junior Prom Friday NightThistle Photographer 
To Complete Sittings
CollegeClassDate
LITERARY MAGAZINE TO
HAVE MANY OPENINGS
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Announces a
FREE LECTURE ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
------by------
W. STUART BOOTH, C. S. B., OF DENVER, COLORADO
Member of The Board of Lectureship of The Mother Church, 
The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
SATURDAY, JANUARY 28, 1928, at 8:15 P. M.
Church Edifice
CLYDE STREET NEAR FIFTH AVENUE 
Cars 73 or 76 
The Public is Cordially Invited to Attend
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No, 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
Thistle Sales to Go on During 
Period of Registration; 
Limit Number of Books
GIVES 
PARTY FOR CHILDREN
The Nutrition II Class in Margaret 
Morrison under Miss Glendons super
vision terminated January 19. with a 
Childrens Party given in M. M. C. C. 
Recreation Hall to the children of the 
first grade of the Greenfield and More, 
head Schools. These pupils, have stu
died nutrition under the girls of tho 
Nutrition. Class.
The guests were transported to and 
from their homes by means of the 
school -truck. Many childrens game a 
were played during the course of the 
afternoon. Refreshments consisting 
of oranges and oatmeal cookies were 
served about a large table in the Prac 
tice Dining Room. Balloons and fancy 
colored hats were given as favors.
The photographer, representing the 
White Studio, will make another ap
pearance on the Carnegie Campus in 
order to finish up the work which was 
forced into postponement by conillcts 
in the schedule as well as the weather 
conditions at the last period. He will 
be here shortly after the second 
semester opens. The date and sched
ule will be posted on the various bul
letin boards and will also be publish
ed in a later issue of this paper. Tho 
schedule for the photography will in
clude all Night School groups, Seniors, 
who have not as yet had their sittings 
and the fraternity groups.
The photographer urges that as 
hearty a co-operation be given him 
by the Seniors and other groups con
cerned since Uils work must be ac
complished as soon as possible. Tho 
Seniors who have as yet not had their 
sittings will be notified as to the date 
they are to come and should tend to 
It at the time requested. For the fra
ternities which are to be taken, as was 
previously announced, the new pledges 
ure not to be included in tlieir respec
tive fraternal groups. The schedule 
rill be sent to the respective heads 
V tyi'e various organizations regarding 
th\'ir appointments and are requested 
to rvttend to it at the desired time.
Tho thistle staff at the present time 
's attempting to collect together all 
I he writeups for the various organi
zations concerned. At the present 
tvnie a great number of the writeups 
a:vd material have been gathered. Codpivvation is asked by the editor of organUation.
Thistles are to bo sold at the sec
ond semester registration line. Every 
one desiring a Thistle should attend 
to it at this time because a limited 
number of Thistles are to be printed. 
Salesmen will be posted at the conven
ient places in the registration line giv
ing every one ah opportunity of ob
taining this years Thistle, a book that 
anyone not having one will regret not 
having taken tho opportunity of of 
lnining it.
'be Had if Sufficient 
Interest Exists
Large Collection of Sculptures 
and Paintings Show Skill 
in Interpretations
An exhibition of American sculpture 
I and a collection, of modern drawings 
! was put on display at Carnegie Insti
tute on Wednesday, January IS.
The sculpture exhibition comprises 
almost one hundred pieces, most of 
which are bronzes. It was assembled 
by the Asociated Dealers in American 
Paintings. The list of sculptors in
cludes Robert Aitken, Gutzon Borglum, Daniel Chester French, Paul 
Mansliip, Arthur B. Davies, Mahonri 
Young, Harriet Frishmuth, Max Kalish, Heinz Warneke and many others.
The majority of the sculptures in 
the show are small bronzes, although 
there are some works in other medi
ums.
, Included among the larger works is 
a bust of Thomas Jefferson by Rob
ert Aitken, Standing Lincoln by 
Daniel Chester French, Indian Run
ner by Paul Mansliip/and John 
Ruskin by Gutzon Borglum.
There are three small bronzes by 
Max Kalish, showing that sculpors_ 
skill at interpreting the working man 
of this country. They are The Elec
tric Riveter, Woodsman and Amer
ican Steel Worker. Max Kalish was 
born in Poland in 1891. He was a 
pupil of Matzen and Adams. He was 
awarded the first prize for sculpture 
at the Cleveland MuseUm of Art in 
1924 and 1925. Kalishs. studies of the 
laboring man are well known for their 
rugged strength and vigor. His work 
has been compared to that of Rodin.
Fifteen small bronzes by Arthur B. 
Davies form an interesting part of the 
show. Davies is better known as a 
painter, having exhibited in many Car
negie International Exhibitions. He 
was awarded first prize in the Twentysecond International in 1923.
There are 19 bronzes by Chester 
Beach in the exhibition.
Harriet Frishmuth, who is one of 
the best known American women 
sculptors, shows two fountain figures, 
"Call of the Sea and Joy of the 
Waters. Paul Mansliip is exhibiting 
a bronze entitled Indian Runner. 
The original of this statue is located 
in St. Paul, Minnesota. -v,
. At the same time there will be 
shown a collection of modern draw
ings lent by Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Good
year, of Buffalo. The artists repre
sented are: George Bellows, 'Augustus 
John, Henri Matisse, Dundyer de 
Segonzac, Maurice Sterne, Charles 
Despiau Rockwell Kent and Aristide 
Malliol. The drawings are in several 
different mediums,..including pen and 
ink. crayon, charcoal, pencil, red 
crayon and wash.
These two exhibitions will continue 
in the Carnegie galleries through Feb
ruary 26th.
The question asked this week was: 
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT 
HAVING A BAGPIPE; BAND?
J. W. Blackball, head of Heat Treat
ing Department: I am in*favor of it,
providing that wre can stir up enough 
enthusiasm so as to have 10 or 12 bag
pipes, four small drums, and a big 
drum with a drum major, making a 
band of IS and with increased interest: 
enlarge the band to two dozen pipes.
Why cant the fraternities each 
furnish and equip a piper and relieve 
the school of the expense.- The pipes 
would run about $45 or $50, and the 
uniforms would be similar to those of 
the Kiltie band. I am willing to give 
my time to teaching those who are 
willing to learn.
There are one or two pipers in 
school now and if we could get Fresh
men I could bring them along to play 
in a year. It will be a lot of work, 
but the results would be worth the 
effort.-
Richard V. Rogers, Freshman in 
Painting and Decoration: I think it 
would be a great idea to have a bag
pipe band, because it would be in 
keeping with the traditions of a 
Scotch institution. I dont think there 
are many who could play the bagpipe, 
but I think they could get enough >vho 
would be willing to learn if there was 
someone to teach them.
Carl E. Kumpf, Junior in Printing* 
and Publishing: An organization of 
this type in conection with the Kiltie 
Band would be a worthwhile activity 
for the school. It would reflect the 
true Scotch spirit and would greatly 
impress people who would see the 
band in other cities. There would have 
to be an organization independent of 
the band, but to appear with the Kil
ties at all its appearances. The men 
who will comprise the organization 
would have to pledge that they would 
participate in all rehearsals and pub
lic appearances to insure success to 
the organization.
Joseph A. Rado, special in Heating 
and Ventilation: I think that we
ought to have a bagpipe band, being 
that Carnegie is a school with Scotch 
traditions and should live up to its 
name. I think that if the school has 
any spirit at all there would be enough 
to form a band of this type.
Frank E. Foote, Sophomore in Com
mercial Engineering: I think that it 
is a very good idea to have a bagpipe 
band because it would be emblematic 
of Carnegies traditions, as it was 
founded by a Scotchman. The only 
difficulty is to get the thing started 
since there is nobody who can play 
the bagpipe.
Introduction by a friend is usually 
the safest way to make new acquaint
ances. 'For about .fifteen years this 
paper has introduced its students to a 
dependable Service Station for Invi
tations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen 
Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if 
you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop, Jenkins Arcade. ___
Carnegie Men
Aeronautic Club
Course in Aeronautics May
A group of Carnegie men interested 
in aviation have recently begun the 
organization of an aviation club. At the 
initial meeting of this organization, 
held Sunday afternoon, January 15, in 
McGill Hall, officers were elected and 
committees appointed for the drafting 
of a charter and by-laws. The officers 
are as follows: H. M. Wilkoff, presi
dent; W. J. Aull, vice president: R. C. 
Waterhouse, secretary, and T. E. Zima, 
treasurer.
The aims of the club re to arouse 
interest in the development of avia
tion among college students, to place 
in the hut library a collection of aer6- 
nautical books and periodicals, to se
cure the interest of men prominent in 
aeronautics and expert on aviation 
subjects, to act as a unit and do all it 
can in the interests of aviation, both 
inside and outside the club, and to in
terest the Carnegie faculty in institu
ting a course in aviation. .
It is believed that an aviation course 
would bring more students to Car
negie.- Many of the present students 
have expressed their willingness to 
take this course should it bo offered. 
Carnegie authorities have assured club 
officials that the new study will be 
speedily approved when it comes up 
for formal recommendation.
At present plans are being made to 
bring men from Pittsburghs airports 
to speak here and to give some in
structions in ground work. Commit
tees are at work preparing a schedule 
of interesting and instructive meet
ings. One member of the club is now 
working on his final tests for a pilots 
license. If successful he will continue 
with the work and become a commer
cial pilot. ,
Announcements of the next to be 
held in room 2l0 McGill Hall at 2:00 
p. m. Sunday have been placed on the 
bulletin bpards. All enthusiasts of 
aviation are urged to attend. Experi
ence in aviation is unnecessary. Non
students will be admitted to the club 
as associate rrtembers.
loouiinuea jjrom .rage unei 
committee, has had charge of secur
ing the programs, favors, patrons, 
etc. for the dance; The favors are 
unusual and are something entirely 
different from any given in previous 
years. The favors were ordered after 
a careful survey of the. stocks of 
eight jewelers. These favors are at
tractive. unique and above all useful 
and lasting. ,
Buckley has secured one of the best 
orchestras which has ever played at 
college Proms, Wliitey Kaufmans 
group of versatile musicians. Whitey and his orchestra have recently 
played at many outstanding college 
dances. A picture of the orchestra 
appears on page three of this issue of 
the Tartan. The group includes musi
cians who have mastered jazz music 
completely.
The dinner will be served between 
12:00 and 1:00 oclock. The chef at 
the Pitsburgh Country Club has built I 
up a reputation for tasty cooking 
which has outstripped that of other 
chefs in various clubs around the city.
The final ticket sale will be held all 
this week from 11:30 to 1:30 in the 
Central Building. The total price of j 
the ticket is nine dollars, four dollars | 
plus a socond ticket, or seven dollars 
plus a first ticket. Get your tickets 
now so that a favor and program will 
be reserved for you. If anyone waits 
until tho last minute, there is grave 
danger of losing out on the favors and 
programs.
Stretching Your Income
Only through careful, system
atic and efficient handling of 
your funds can you make the 
most of your Income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial welfare of custom
ers and are ever ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial 
problems.
Your savings and checking ac
counts, even though small, are 
welcome here.
Capital and Surplus 
$17,000,000
Ben Idoii Payne, head of tho De
partment of Drama gave a talk on 
The Fine Arts in Student Life at 
University or Iowa last Friday at 
on the Fino Arts.
COL. EDWARD T. MILLER
GIVES PRINTING LECTURE
Last Tuesday, January 17, Col. Ed
ward T. Miller, executive secretary of 
the United Typothetae of America, 
Chicago, gave a lecture on Printing, 
in Industries. His subject was the 
"Organization and Management of a 
Printing Business." Many of the stu
dents and the faculty attended the 
lecture.
Heres your chance! Get in on the 
new . All-Carnegie literary magazine. 
On Wednesday, February Stli, at 4:30, 
in room 106, College of Fine Arts, a 
very important meeting of those inter
ested in the new magazine will be 
held. At this meeting the constitution 
will be formally adopted, the editorial 
and business ,staff chosen, and the ad
visory board elected
A whole flock of gold opportunities 
for getting into a brand new activity 
will be thrown open to students of all 
four colleges at this meeting. Those 
who have literary inclinations will 
have a chance to try their hand at 
editing, while the future business man 
and private secretary-to-be will get a 
taste of what things will be like when 
they get out into the wide, wide world.
The last meeting of the new maga
zine enthusiasts was held last Wednes
day at 4:30 in 106 Arts building. A 
fairly large and very interested group 
attended. The proposed Constitution 
and by-laws were read and discussed 
thoroughly. After deliberating on sev
eral other important questions the 
meeting was adjourned.
The competition for a name for the 
new magazine is officially opened in 
this issue. To the right below is the 
competition blank. If you have any 
suggestions for a title fill in the blank 
and place it an envelope addressed to 
Contest Editor New Literary Maga
zine, C. E. T. Postoffice, Interscliool 
Mail
The contest ends March 1. In case 
of duplication ther'accepted one re
ceived first will be given.the prize*
The one cigarette in a million
YCX instant a Camel is lighted, you 
sense that here is the distinctly Letter 
cigarette. And how this superior quality 
grows with the smoking! Choice to
baccos tell their fragrant story. Patient, 
caccful blending rewards the smoker 
with added pleasure.
Camel is the one cigarette in a mil
lion for mildness-and mellowness. Its de
cided goodness wins world popularity 
n. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COM
O 1927 ffor Camel. Modern smokers demand 
superiority. They find it fulfilled in 
Camels; and place them overwhelmingly 
first.
You should know the tastes and 
fragrances that choice tobaccos really 
give. Camels will reveal an entirely 
new pleasure. And the more of 
them you light, the more enjoyable.
Have a Camel!
PANY, WINSTON/:SAlLEM, N. C. 
a........................ I 

---------------------------------------------------

Member Federal 
Reserve Sj'stem
The Oakland Bank
Capital - - - $300,000.00 
Surplus-----$400,000.00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
SHOWING AT 
WILLIAM PENN * 
HOTEL 
Monday and Tuesday, 
February 6 and 7 
Representative 
Mr. Glb"( Collins
$34.50 and $42.50 
Tailored to your order.
Nat LUXENBERG 8 Bro.
37 Union Square, New York 
. > Be/wtert 16th & 17th Stt.
EXTRA!
This ad is worth one dollar to apy student renting a 
Tuxedo Suit from us 
COMPLETE LINE OF ACCESSORIES
Ad must be presented
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone 2604 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
PAGE FOURTUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1928
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Dr. Nathanson Reports 
On Cincinnati Meeting
Carnegie Chapter Elects New 
Officers and Committees 
for Present Year
On Thursday afternoon, January 19, 
the American Association of Univer
sity Professors, met at the home of 
Professor and Mrs. Klrk-Patrlck. At 
this meeting Dr. Nathanson, delegate 
to the. annual meeting of the Associa
tion In Cincinnati during the holidays, 
made a report of the proceedings of 
that meeting. All who were present 
at the meeting are grateful to Profes
sor and Mrs. Klrk-Patrlck for their 
generous hospitality manifested on 
the occasion.
The names of the newly elected of
ficers and members of committees for 
the present school year are as follows: 
President, Prof. J. B. Nathanson; vice 
president, Mr.j Charles' Williamson; 
secretary, Miss Susan T. Canfield; 
treasurer, Mr. Kent D. Shaffer; pro
gram committee, Prof. Ii. K. KlrkPatrick, chairman; Prof. T. 11. Alex
ander, Mrs. Mary C. Burnett, Prof. R.
B. Leighou and Prof. N. C. Riggs; 
membership committee, Prof. E. A. 
Whitman, chairman; Miss Harriet F. 
Glendon, Prof. M. M. Frocht, Prof. 
Glendenning Keeble, Mr. Charles W. 
Larkin; publicity committee, Prof. C. 
W. Prine, chairman; Prof. Ii. L. 
Moore and Prot F. C. Swanson.
The present membership of the 
Carnegie Chapter of the Association 
as indicated by the report of the gen
eral secretary,; January, 1927, is sixty.
Members of the association who 
have prior to this school year been 
connected with other institutions are 
invited to become affiliated with the 
Carnegie Chapter; These individuals 
should secure a transfer of member
ship .either by writing to the general 
secretary, or by giving their names to 
Miss Susan Canfield, the local secre
tary, who will effect the transfer. Any 
member of the C. I. T. faculty of pro
fessorial rank, orIf an instructor 
is one. who has been a member of the
C. I. T. teaching staff for a period of 
three years, is eligible to membership 
and is invited to become a member of 
the association.
One of the latest model yachts seen 
In New York harbor and vicinity has 
almost every known convenience of 
home. A radio telephone, a conceal
ed piano, windows which open by 
pushing an electric button, and other 
features do not eclipse a kitchen and 
equipment that would do many elab
orate homes justice. Gas Is supplied 
by a special machine to a range for 
cooking, and It Is gas also which op
erates an automatic refrigerator.
Walter Wimer, a member of the 
Sigma Nu fraternity, haW- ;een named 
chairman of the comm|>ig a for the 
Smoker. He has not, I i- (at, selected 
his committee, but tNeoh will be an
nounced in next week\th> jartan.
As in other years ath is offered 
by the Alpha Tau Frap- lity to the 
Department presenting le I best stunt. 
Last year the cup wai ^ von by the 
Works Management me|- Keen com
petition is expected this s* 3ar between 
the Building Constru ion, Works 
Management and Pm ng depart
ments for the cup. vn I
Tickets for the Smoke I will be on 
sale soon. It is expecte  that the 
committee will keep the Irice as low 
as last year to assure a 'big attend
ance. All Industries students and En
gineering and Iudustriejj Freshmen 
are invited to atend as it i will be the 
biggest occasion of the) Industries 
School this year.
Further plans of the coniimittee will 
be announced in the Tartan next 
week. i
ARTS NIGHT SCHOOL CXANCE
HELD LAST SATURDAY
The students of the .Arts' Night 
School held a very successful dance 
last Taturday night, Jajnuary 21, from 
9 to 12 oclock in the Arts Foyer.
Registration cards Served as means 
of identification. Tlfie students fea
tured the presentation of Eddie Weitz 
and his Pennsylvanians. These 
versatile dance aijtists provided a 
most enjoyable eveifiug for all who at
tended. }
PATRONIZE OUW ADVERTISERS
Wash-Jeff Barely 
Trims Frosh Cagers
Game Ends With Plebes O e 
Count Behind; Nease High 
Point Man
Last Tuesday night the Freshman 
basket ball squad journeyed to Little 
Washington to play the W. & J. Fresh
man in a preliminary game to the fea
ture attraction between the varsity 
fives of Carnegie Tech and Washing
ton and Jefferson. All the regulars 
were not on the trip and the Plebes 
were not used to playing on the unu
sually small floor which the Presidents 
have, but in spite of all this the score 
was very close, the Wash-Jeff Frosh 
winning by one point, 34 to 33. The 
Tech Freshmen had a hard time of it 
the first half and found it very diffi
cult to get started. As the period end
ed the Little Presidents were leading 
27 to 13. But in the second half the 
Plaid Yearlings became used to their 
cramped quarters and scored 20 points 
while their opponents could manage to 
get only 7. The lead that W. & J. se
cured during the initial period helped 
them however, so that the final count 
stood: Wash-Jeff 34, Carnegie Tech
33. It was the best game the Frosh 
played so far, considering that they 
have yet to play their first home game. 
One more trip which is to Penn State, 
and then all engagements will be 
played in the gym, so far as it is 
known.
W. & J. Frosh34.
Carnegie Tech Plebes33.
..........F.........
..........C.........
........G...........
..........G.........
Field goalsBlack 1, Davis 2, 
Nease 8, Fox 1, Weiss 2, Smith 3, Bartlebaugh 1, Scott 4, Shoemaker 2, 
Brown 1, Levine 2, Campbell 2.
Foul goalsBlack, 2 out of 4; Nease, 
2 out of 4; Bayless, 1 out of 2; Clarke, 
none out of 2; Smith, 1 out of 2; Scott, 
1 out of 1; Shoemaker, none out of 
2; Levine, 1 out of 1; Campbell, 1 
out of 3. .
SubstitutionsNease for Davis, 
Powell for Fox, Weiss for Bayless, 
Clarke for Knouse, Bartlebough for 
Smith, Shoemaker for Scott, Levine 
for Brown, Creed for Boyd, Campbell 
for Grim:
have been received. The next match 
will be the week ending February 11, 
with the plebes firing prone, sitting 
and kneeling.
(Continued on Page Five.)
blazed the trail
As explorer and discoverer in the great 
southwest, Coronado pioneered a trail which 
telephone lines now traverse.
To project and construct these lines across 
plain and desert and over mountain range 
was also the work of pioneers, men not 
afraid to grapple with the frontiers either
of geography or of scientific knowledge.
Men of the Bell system have penetrated 
through trackless problems of research, of 
manufacture, of telephone operation and of 
management. They purpose to continue 
their advance, all in the interest of better 
service to America.
BELL SYSTEM
zA nation-zvide system of 18,ooo,ooo inter-connecting telephones
NArEUMUffiiiScBRQ
cimjnniniEs
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morning Service 11 A. M. 
Evening Service 8 P. M.
Semester Relapse Finds Many Making 
New Resolutions'For Coming Semester
The time of the year has come 
when we are all sufficiently scared to 
be remoresful of the past, and there
fore open to reform and conversion. 
Let the next, occupation of our minds 
be the formation of new resolutions 
for the coming semester. Of course, 
now that our new years resolutions 
are sufficiently cracked to be dis
carded!
1. Resolved  hereafter to read 
every assignment before reporting to 
class, and also review notes of each 
previous lecture (make a good first 
impression, at least).
2. To date only on Friday, Wednes
day, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and 
Monday nights (Saturday reserved 
for a bath).
3. To refrain from caricaturing the 
professors before their eyes, and 
thereby raising ones E to a 13. (This 
resolution Is void in the case of the 
profs, who spring quizzes, for there 
wouldnt be any results anyhow in 
such cases where personality doesnt 
count).
4. To engage ones instructors (if 
they show any human traits what
ever) in a pleasant bit of conversation
after each class. This always helps, 
if one can hide ones condescension.
5. To refrain from upsetting the 
various senates by giving more time 
to doctoring up borrowed notes and 
quiz answers (so that the Senates 
won't be obliged to recognize them as 
borrowed).
6. To attend chapel regularly and 
sit in view of the dean, and to make 
every effort to speak to him (or her). 
This' Is similar to a Christmas Sav
ings Fundsaving up (in this case, 
reputation) for an emergency. I con
sider this the most important resolu
tion.
7. Never to date the same person 
twice in succession. This will give 
one the enviable reputation of being 
a very devil with the other sex." It 
will also free one of many difficulties 
at such times as birthdays, etc.
8. And lastly, to give up the True* 
Story for better literature such as 
Good Housekeeping or The Coun
try Gentleman depending on ones 
sex.
With the above guide, the coming 
semester should end with a beautiful 
crop of snowy white hair adorning the 
student body's head.
Original Kid Party Given__
By Dramats For Plebes
DORM PROPOSED AT UNIV.
OF PARIS FOR AMERICANS
Friday night in the foyer of the Arts 
building the members of the dramatic 
department gave their annual party 
for the plebes. The entertainment 
this year was a kid party; and for this 
one night, the members of the dra
matic department, in the  guise of 
Peter Pans, Dutch boys and girls, Tom 
Sawyer's, Huckleberry Finns, and 
other beloved characters of fiction, 
cast aside their dignity and acted as 
they were dressed.
The entertainment was supplied by 
the native genius and artistic ability 
of the members of the department. 
The feature stunt of the evening was 
a burlesque, given by the plebes, of 
the various plays which have been 
presented this year by the upper 
classmen. Frank Sulivan, 29, gave an 
impersonation. Other clever imper
sonations were presented by Walter 
Rogers, 28, and Dorothy Wadleigli, 
'30, further entertained the kids 
with several Irene Franklin kid 
songs.
The decorations were designed by 
Catherine Mansfield, and consisted 
Cor the most part of gorgeously col
ored patches of stars, jester heads, 
harlequin8 and grotesque totem pole 
men.
The party, on the whol^, was one of 
the most original entertainments that 
has ever boon given for the plebes by 
the upperclassmen of the department.
The Cite Universitaire, an interna
tional student city of dormitories for 
the foreign students of the University 
of Paris, is being built and the Presi
dents of 15 American Universities 
and colleges are backing the move 
for a dormitory for American stu
dents.
This program of the University of 
Paris is acknowledgment of the ne
cessity of university owned living 
quarters and the University is donat
ing the ground for the dormitories 
provided the countries build the build
ings.
Four countries have already built 
or, are building the dormitories and 
committees in eleven other,; countries 
announce that plans are complete for 
their buildings.
The United States sends, a large 
number of students to the University 
of Paris and, as it is now, they are 
forced to live in scattered parts of 
Paris. A common dormitory would 
make the contact closer for the Ameri
cans and also bring them into close 
contact with students of various coun
tries thereby getting the advantage of 
the broadening power of meeting 
other people, which is half of college 
education.
To make this realized.,1 a fund of 
$400,000 must be raised by -public sub
scription. Tin) Committee; of the 15 
college Presidents, which \ represents 
mens, womens and co-tiducatlonal 
institutions has an office at 50 East 
Forty-second street, New York, which 
is headquarters for the movement.
The colleges represented
ing the action are: University of Virglnla, Yale, U. of Montana,
as endor8-
Columbla,
Brown, Princeton, Rollins, ^Dartmouth, 
Michigan, Chicago, Vass:
Wellesley, and Leland S 
They have announced their 
helping to provide for the 
of American students in p|
ir, Smith, 
tanford Jr. 
support in 
lormitories 
.lis.
Industries Smoker Date 
Fixed For February 10th
Fancy Wool Hose
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the kind students like to wear.
75c$1.00$1.50 PER PAIR
Auf hammer & Evans
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square Established 1872
H.
RECEIVES
DRAMA DEPARTMENT TO
STAGE CLOSE HARMONY
(Continued From Page One.) 
Children of Earth. (Josephine Copas and Mathilda Bodycombe also 
have important parts in the cast.)
The play is under the direction of 
Chester Wallace.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Matches Fired With Lehigh 
and Worcester During 
the Past Week
During the week ending January 
14, the varsity rifle team opened the 
season by losing a match to MississipA. M. College by the large margin of 
1,749 to 1,763. Evidently the Missis
sippi boys know how to do other 
things besides raise cotton and cane.
Although the Carnegie team has 
been handicapped this season, there is 
no denying the fact that they were 
up against a superior team which had 
a larger supply of vary good material 
as was shown in the comparison be
tween the score of their second five 
men and Carnegies second five men. 
The score of Carnegie's opponents was 
higher than will he reached by very 
many teams this year, considering the 
fact that a smaller target and a more 
difficult standing * position is being 
used this year.
Last week, matches were fired with 
Lehigh University, and Worcester 
Polytechnic Institute, but no results 
have yet been received.
The next varsity match will be dur
ing the week ending February 11, and 
five teams will be fired at this time. 
The team should be strengthened 
somewhat by the addition of several 
good men who were ineligible this 
semester.
The lineup for Carnegie and Missis
sippi A. & M. was:
Carnegie
Kasehagen ........................ 366
Bronson ............................ 355
Stine .................................. 351
Weatherell ........................ 347
Cole .................................... 344
Mississippi
Powell ................................ 384
Smyth ................................ 370
Rliinehart ........................ 367
Conerly ............................. 364
Trotter .............................. 364
Plebes Win Two Matches.
The plebe rifle team began their sea
son by crashing through with wins for 
both tlieir matches during the week 
ending January 14. They defeated 
University of Delaware Freshmen by 
the score of 479 to 478, and also de
feated the University of Cincinnati 
Freshmen by the score of 479 to 475, 
in prone matches. A large number of 
men are out for the team, and are 
practicing regularly.
Last week the plebes fired a prone 
match with four teams, but no results
Coronado
Today the telephone 
makes the far *ivest 
the near west.
French Government Confers 
Legion of Honor Ribbon 
on Art Director
Word has been received that the 
French Government has conferred on 
Homer Saint-Gaudens, Director 
Fine Arts at Carnegie Institute, the 
decoration of Chevalier of the Legion 
of Honor. This honor is bestowed in 
recognition of Mr. Saint-Gaudens 
services to the art world. He was 
formally notified that he had been ad
mitted to the French Legion of Honor 
by Dr. A. Leteve, French Consul in 
Pittsburgh.
Homer iSaint-Gaudens is the son of 
Augustus Saint-Gaudens, one of the 
greatest of American sculptors. He 
was made Assistant Director of Fine 
Arts at Carnegie Institute in July, 
1921, and Director a year later. He 
has organized the last six Interna
tional Exhibitions, spending some 
months each year visiting the studios 
of European artists, and assembling 
the foreign paintings. He inaugurated 
the plan of showing these European 
paintings in other American cities at 
the close of the Pittbsurgh Exhibition. 
The Twenty-sixth' International is 
now being shown in Brooklyn, New 
York, after which the foreign paint
ings will be exhibited in ' San ' Fran
cisco, California.
As a member of the Board of Direc
tors of the American Federation of 
Arts, Mr. Saint-Gaudens has taken an 
active part, in arousing and encourag
ing interest in art museums in smaller 
cities^
During the war Mr. Saint-Gaudens, 
as Captain, was in command of the 
first camouflage company to be 
formed.
It is interesting to know that the 
town of Saint-Gaudens in France is 
soon to erect a monument as a memo
rial to Augustus Saint-Gaudens. This 
is the town in which the father of the 
sculptor was born.
Varsity Rifle Team 
Loses to Miss. A.&M.
The date of the Industries S'moker 
this year has been set foiv February 
tenth. As this stag is one jof the few 
department affairs of the school still 
in existence, effort is beih.g made to 
make it an undoubted sucjcess to in
sure it against the fate of the Arts Ball. |
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.Mayflower 7891

---------------------------------------------------

R\BS r NO RipS, 
I'v/e <aOT To MAVS 
/N vSMoKe ! r-__-
7\ HE -POLLYANNA NTlcRS
\MtTH GLAD Tf DINGS -______________
r----------------------------------------------- ( HAve AM OLD
( gee! JUN IOJNR I GOL MO_r A
I FOR A CIGARETTE, -T"
BUT The Doctor J I^arloap 
SAYS it WILL y V
1 MAKE Me C0U6H / gf[_=p*
TUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
The Athletic Council, at its meeting last week, selected Bud Buckley and 
Leon Hartman as co-managers of the varsity football team for next season, 
with Harry Widom, manager of the plebe eleven. Thus ends the closest fight 
for this position in the schools history. Several times before, three men were 
selected as junior assistant managers, but always something has intervened 
to prevent at least one of the three from returning to school for his 
junior year. This year all three first assistants returned, on an equal foot
ing, worked mightily all season, and finished on an equal footing. It seems 
too bad that one of the three could not have been awarded the varsity job, 
but all had done their work so well that no one of them could be called the best.
The arrangement decided upon gives all three a letter, and by splitting 
the major honor, divides honors about equally. This is as it should be, for 
no one of them really merited more or less than the other two. The football 
managership is undoubtedly the hardest non-athletic activity in school, and 
all three men are deserving of heartiest congratulations for their achievement.*******
The basket ball team, sans Harpster, lost to Wash-Jeff last Tuesday on 
the Presidents so-called floor. The defeat was not unexpected but the show
ing of the Tartans leads one to believe that the W. & J. hoodoo should be 
broken when Carnegie meets them here, in February.
The plebe team staged a valiant up-hill fight in the second half to come 
within one point of the Red and Black frosh team as the game ended. With 
Nease in the high scoring role, the Skibo youngsters accumulated twenty 
points in the first half, limiting their opponents to a mere seven. With 
Neases bad ankle rounding into shape rapidly, the Plebes should shortly start winning games.*******
Ashland College, located somewhere in Ohio, has been booked as the 
second opponent on Carnegies 1928 football schedule, replacing West Vir
ginia. The Ohioans are rated as a fairly good class B team, and, it is hoped, 
will furnish Carnegie with a good workout before Thiel and Wash-Jeff are 
encountered. Tis too bad that the Mountaineers had to be dropped, but their 
arrangement with Pitt would not allow them to appear in Pittsburgh on the 
dates which Carnegie had open.*******
Bert Munhall has returned from a trip to Texas, taken to regain his 
health after a breakdown shortly before Christmas. The trip appears to have 
done Bert a world of good, although his figure appears no slimmer.
SCOTCH BASKETEERS 
LOSE CLOSE, FAST 
CAME TO W. & J.
Few Substitutions Made as 
Age Old Rivals Battle to a 
30-19 Final Score
The heartache of Carnegie football 
coaches, the downfall of Carnegie 
quintets, the cause of the shedding of 
buckets of Carnegie tears; the W. & 
J. jinx has again made its presence 
known.
It was expecting too much of a quin
tet, just convalescing from a serious 
mauling in the hands of the Panthers, 
to invade Little Washington and 
bring home a victory; something no 
Carnegie quintet, good, bad or indif
ferent has ever been able to do in 
previous years.
'Some six hundred spectators had 
squeezed into the small Armony court 
to listlessly watch the yearly defeat 
of the invading Tartans. They were 
quickly jerked out of their reverie 
and some of the "Old Grads' almost 
passed out with heart failure as the 
Carnegie five opened the game by 
literally running the oversize Presi
dents off of their feet on their own 
slippery, postage stamp floor. For an 
exhibition of speed, passing, shooting 
and all around individual starring the 
onlookers were given a real basketball 
treat. As passing goes, the hardy 
Scotch were the evident superiors, 
much to the surprise of the Jay 
sympathizers. However the Presi
dents gained and steadily maintained 
their narrow lead solely through their 
superior shooting and seemed to ex
perience no difficulty in looping the 
ball through the ring despite the 
flimsy, shaking backboards which 
were such a serious handicap to the 
Tartans. It was often a subject for 
much debate, betting and profanity as 
to whether the ball would bounce, 
stick or go clear through the badly 
constructed backboards. All in all 
the W. & J. coaches will have good 
cause for much concentrated worry 
when their team faces a much better 
Scotch quintet, playing their closing 
game on their own floor, February 29.
In addition to their superior passing 
technique another redeeming feature 
of the Skibo atack was a much higher 
average in foul shooting. Dependable 
Captain White again took the stellar 
role by amassing the largest number 
of the Carnegie points. Hitchcock 
continued his excellent' playing and 
Mohrman pulled through in much bet
ter shape than usual. W. & J.s end 
was ably upheld by Red Kirkman 
and Sanders, who appeared to have 
the basket hypnotized and seemed to 
find it easy to drop the sphere through 
the ring from any or all of the corn
ers of the floor.
For every game to date it has been 
necessary to shift, alter or patch the 
lineup to take care of absent players. 
Hitchcock was out one game, Harp
ster is never surely in or definitely 
out but it is hoped that next semester 
will see him in the lineup for good. 
Nevertheless in the home games the 
students are going to see a rejuven
ated and much superior Carnegie five 
In action. With several players 
shifted and perhaps Harpster playing 
for good, the team will be able to 
practice together and shape up into a 
better unit which will be a serious 
menace to any team invading the 
Skibo floor.
The lineup:
W. & J.30. Carnegie19.
Kirkman .............F........................ High
Robinson .............F....................... Crum
Sanders ..............C....................... Bond
McMunn .............G..................... White
Gilcrest ................G............. Hitchcock
Substitutions: Carnegie  Kilgore,
Staufford, Mahrinan. W. & J.Lewis, 
McKissock.
Scoring: CarnegieWhite, 4 goals.
Co-ed Riflers Open 
With Two Victories
Last week the women riflers won 
their opening two matches of the 
year, defeating Gettysburg College 
582 to 581, and Ohio Wesleyan College 
by the large majority of 485 to 444.
Two teams were made up to fire 
these two matches, the most profi
cient shots of last year fired on both 
teams and the remainder of the girls 
were divided up between the teams 
according to their ability. In scoring, 
only the five highest individual scores 
made in each particular match were 
counted. In the match with Gettys
burg the five high scores of both the 
Carnegie and the Gettysburg teams to
talled up the same, therefore it was 
necessary to take into consideration 
the sixth individual score of each col
lege. This resulted in a victory for 
the Carnegie girls by the small ma
jority of one point.
The teams and their scores were as 
follows. Team firing Gettysburg:
J. Roy ................................. 98
C. Shults ........................... 98
H. Bright............................. 97
D. Roy................................. 97
A. Bright............................. 96
C. Collins ........................... 96
Total six high
F. Shapiro ........
L. Kellar............
H. Whitehall ... 
M. Furgeson
Team firing Ohio Wesleyan:
J. Roy .................................. 98
I. Hansell ............................ 98
H. Bright.............................. 97
A. Bright ............................ 96
K. ODonnell ...................... 96
Total five high .......................485
F. Shapiro .......................... 95
I. Sheppard ........................ 95
L. Kellar .............................. 94
E. Weber ............................ 91
F. Bohleber ........................ 89
 The next matches will be fired the 
week ending February 11, against 
the University of Nevada and Oklaho
ma Agricultural and Mechanical Col
lege. This will afford the girls sev
eral weeks rest and plenty of time in 
which to practice. With two victories 
already to their credit the Carnegie 
women have an exceedingly bright 
outlook for an all victory season.
1 out of two fouls; Crum, 2 goals, 0 
out of 1 foul; Bond, 1 goal, 2 out of
2 fouls; Hitchcock, 0 goals, 1 out of 
1 foul;.High, 0 goals, 0 out of 1 foul; 
Kilgore, 0 out of 1 foul; Mohrman, 1 
out of 1 foul. W. & J.Kirkman, 6 
goals, 0 out of 1 foul; 'Senders, 5 
goals, 1 out of 1 foul; Robinson, 1 
goal, 1 out of 5 fouls; Gilcrest, 1 goal; 
Lewis, 1 goal, 0 out of 1 foul.
RefereeA1 Slack.
UmpireCal Bolster.
Time of periods20 minutes.
Pennsylvania State CollegeWhat 
do Mac Hall girls like to read? When 
the bitter winds of winter blow out
side the windows and roommates con
tend for the chair nearest the radiator 
what books are chosen to pass the 
time that the weather man decrees 
must be spent indoors?
Charles Dickens is the blue ribbon 
novelist, while Sir Walter Scott and 
Grace S. Richmon tie for second place. 
Gene Stratton Porter and Peter B. 
Kyne take third honors. Joseph Con
rad fourth.
Tennyson leads the poets in popu
larity, with Shakespeare, Shelley, 
Wordsworth, Browning and Edgar A. 
Guest his nearest competitors.
Mark Twain, Kipling, Elinor Glynn, 
Harold Bell Wright, Robert Burns and 
H. L. Mencken received honorable 
mention.
BUCKLEY, HARTMAN 
TO MANAGE 1928 
FOOTBALL ELEVEN
Harry Widom Selected as 
Manager of Plebe Team; 
Race Was Close
The Athletic Council, at its meeting 
last Tuesday evening, appointed var
sity and freshman managers for the 
1928 season, and filled one of the two 
open dates on next year's gridiron 
schedule.
Due to the close managership race 
during the past season, no one now 
could be selected as the best of the 
three first assistants, so that it was 
decided to have two varsity managers 
next year, and one freshman manager. 
The varsity managers selected are 
Raymond Buckley and Leon Hartman. 
Harry Widom was elected freshman 
manager.
Raymond Buckley, familiarly known 
as "Bud, hails from Olean, New 
York, and is enrolled in the Works 
Management course in Industries. He 
is a member of Alpha Tau Omega fra
ternity, and is prominent in other ac
tivities.
Leon Hartman is a Sigma Phi Ep
silon. His home is in Stillwater, Pa. 
He is a junior Civil Engineering stu
dent, and is also quite active.
Harry Widom, a junior in architec
ture, is a local boy, residing in Phil
lips avenue, Squirrel Hill. Harry is 
a member of Beta Sigma Rho frater
nity, and has won fame in other activi
ties.
The first assistants approved for 
next year are Milton Dinger, Donald 
Cochran, and Robert Wright Camp
bell, Treon, Clary, Kremer, Fawcett, 
and Swartz were appointed second as
sistants.
Ashland College, of Ashland, Ohio, 
comes here to meet the Skibos on Oc
tober 6, the second tussle of the sea
son for the Plaid.
The football schedule, to date, fol
lows:
September 29Westminster. Away.
October 6Ashland. Here.
October 13Thiel. Here.
October 20W. & J. Here.
October 27Pitt. Away.
November 3Open.
November 10Georgetown. Away.
November 17Notre Dame. Away.
November 24New York. Here.
Only one date has not been filled, 
and negotiations with several schools 
are under way, and one of the stronger 
Eastern teams will probably come 
here for a game on November 3. The 
schedule calls for games with the old 
rivals, W. & J. and Pitt, and with the 
Skibos depending on late season mo
mentum to pull them through a cal
endar of games that grows tougher 
each week. The Tartans tackle three 
strong teams in succession to close 
the season, Georgetown and Notre
Dame away, with New York Univer
sity coming here on November 24 for 
the gridiron wind-up.
The highlights of the *2S schedule 
are the renewal of tlio Teoh-Notre 
Dame series; and the cessation of 
the Mountaineer feud; athletic re
lations with West Virginia having 
been severed. Georgetown replaces 
the Morgantown institution on the 
Tartan roster.
The Freshman football schedule 
follows:
'September 29St. Vincent. Away.
October 6Kiskl. Away.
October 13West Virginia. Here.
October 20W. & J. Here.
October 27Pitt. Away.
November 3Penn State. Here.
SECOND SEMESTER
REGISTRATION HELD
NEXT TUES. AND WED.
(Continued From Page One.) 
ule card for the second semester
which has been approved by the de
partment giving the instruction. 
There is no registration in S'aturday 
Courses for High School students or 
in the case of night course electives.
The first semester ends on Friday, 
January 27, and registration and pay
ment of fees will bo held on Tuesday 
and Wednesday, January 31 and Feb
ruary 1. Classes begin on Thursday, 
February 2. On Washingtons Birth
day, February 22, there will be neither 
Day nor Night classes. Tho Easter 
vacation starts on Saturday, March 
31, and is extended to Tuesday, April 
10.
About 83 per cent of tho iron ore 
shlppod in 1927 camo from the Lako 
Superior district. The output was 14 
per cent less than in 1926. The Lake 
Superior situation was the same as 
that in the rest of tho United States 
inasmuch as it showed a marked de
crease in the output and the value of 
iron ore.
Tech Beauty 
Shoppe
Sponsored by the Tech Barber 
Shop, announces
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
Shampoo ....................................60c
Marcel Wave............................6Pc
Water Wave .............................85c
Facial.........................75c to $1.00
Manicure....................................50c
Permanent Wave ...............$10.00
Open 'till 7 p. m.
4531 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig 
Phone Mayflower 2838
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISER8
NOW!
PMFDAY GMH.D
STOREWIDE
CLEARANCE
Aint It a Grand and Glorious Feeliri?By BRIGGS
CNNDN TML RJFB E S3HE11Jl asee Wiu mdb uJFrMlEBDI Jye
At'-l'D OOC. STEUGKJS GIV/ES You 
AM HWE5NE PLASTER UNDERSHIRT 
AMD A FRIENDLY WftHKIKG
YOUD SETTER LAV OFF |
ClSARETTS FOR a vjhile .1 
IF Yew cooh rr'-s Soi mo, )
1 > Be UERY PaI'JFUL^j-------
'r
- vHUD AFTER YCX, POPToX77X .1B 
DJ24 7XL97XG 81IM W1o l1ao I1LsA 
smokeless pays 
 AMD, Trembling, yta take: 
The BIG CHANCE; AMD FiNti
stahio taking nc> Chamce=s
AX ALU
OH-H-H-BoyM Ain't it /\ 
eo,o,tJgi AMD 
GLOR-P--P-~R|OU'S 
FEeliim.' r
T/\ -A T/K
PAG ETAG
7ke Smoother and Better Cigarette 
.....not a cough in a carload
Q 1928, P. LorilUrd Co., Cat. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 24, 1928
Arkansas University Keeps 
Memory of Grads in Walk
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2fi00 
Publliihed on: every week during tho col I erte 
year by underffrndunteH of CarriOfifle Institute 
of Technology. Entered In the Plttburgh 
Pont Office ni second-clnon nrmtter.
XGO71oOTIr A7Tll
Kdltor-ln-ciiier ..................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor.......'...Milton CohenNow Editor..............Margaret RuBsell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred Woods
Woinons Editor.......................Jean RoyAlumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE} fcDITORS 
JOBophlne Clarlc Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
taA.Pnn Bulllnger William RoseA. 10. Flflher E. Weaver
John Schnieder Meredith StumpHelen Roed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. C. Ralston Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr. ina Hansell
10. .1aroma . [0, Schlesinger
T. Llppert . Kann
W. W. Hay .j mm McAteer
?' rPUnk I C- Boy(l B,iy o K. ODonnell
7 rK R. Bramson
H. l!evlnB0n H. Whitehille
J. W. Eason R- Barr
H. Booth A- M- PiherM. Echles J- E- White
N. Kline M- B- MazeW. H. Worland C. R. NelBon
W. H. Martsolf O- Ackenhoil
BUSINESS STAFF 
BusineBB Manager.. .Shelby McMilllon
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants R. WehrleT. R. Zeno D. H. Gen ter
LTHISTLEDOWN?
CIRCULATION 
Circulation Manager 
Assistants
G. Brahmst 
J. RothG. C. Harbison
G. ThompsonB. Wedner 
A. Teplitz 
M. Malinich R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bontonari
STAFF
Harold Kandell
A. Frank 
A. Haynes
C. E. Blass 
S. Bluestone 
I. LevinS. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville
OificeRoom 12, Induntrlen Bulldlntc. OfTic 
HourMondny to Thuriidnyn, 12:30-1:20 
Pnpor mude up Friday, 12 :'10-0 :00.
To lnmire publication on tho nucceedlnp: 
Tueudny, newit itenin must be In tho ntudent 
pout office or Tnrtan Office before 4 :.0 Thurndny.After Offlce Hourn cnll Schenley 1490, 
Schenley 984G, Schenley 9211.
EXAMINATIONS
The attitude of the average student 
toward examinations is comprised of 
the feeling that they are peculiar 
forms of torture, late remnants of 
"the Spanish Inquisition,' contrived 
for his special annoyance and incon. vonlence. Examinations are tho one 
thing in college life which is least 
fionducivo to a pleasurable campus 
caroor. Thoso constantly recurring 
phenomena the tho bogy-men of their 
pleoplng hours, In class room and 
out. The thought of them hangs over 
their heads like a vorltablo sword of 
Damocles, which Is bound to descond 
periodically In their midst and pro
duce much walling and loss of sloop. 
Such students should bo thankful they 
did not llvo In China when examina
tions 'consisted of being shut up In 
a room for days and days, composing 
endless poems and literary essays on
I lie wisdom of Oohfusclous.
But, seriously, students should roalisse that examinations are not night
mares concocted by a vongoful fac
ulty members to produce delirium 
tremens In helploss students, but aro 
(merely) necessary devices by which 
tho student Is brought into tho de
sirable condition of organizing tho 
conglomeration of material which he 
has received throughout a given 
period of time, of collecting it in his 
mind for some practical application. 
It is true that some students do this 
sort of thing as they go along in tho 
course, but most students do not se
cure the correct perspective of their 
material until they begin to review for 
examination. The exemption pro
gram is often used to excuse students 
of high grade who have presumably 
organized their material as they went 
along without the prospective incen
tive of examinations.
Another popular delusion of stu
dents about examinations is that in
structors and professors depend upon 
them as criteria for determining the 
comparative rating of students. This 
is rarely true. In most courses the 
instructor is able to determine the 
standing of students pretty well 
without the aid of examinations. 
Therefore, although it is difficult for 
students to see the problem in this 
light, examinations are not primarily 
an expedient of professors to plague 
students, but are given to help stu
dents to get the greatest benefit from 
their courses of study.
M. R. R.
Though the Smith Brothers, Trade 
and Mark, are not graduates of the 
University of Arkansas, there are 
enough other Smiths who have diplo
mas from the Institution to make the 
Browns and Joneses take back seats 
In the matter of numbers. The tra
ditional Senior Walk" 'at the Uni
versity of Arkansas extending through 
the campus from the main building 
and containing the names of all bona 
fide graduates since 1904, furnishes the 
information of 'who most.
The Senior Walk at present con
tains the names of 35 Smiths, as com
pared to nine Joneses and four 
Browns.
The first block of the concrete walk 
contains the names of 31 graduates. 
Those names are as follows: James
S, Abefcrombie, Fay B. Blanchard, 
John R. Bloom, Margaret Sue Burney, 
Earl W. Chappie, Jean L. Cook, Mary 
Lou Davies, Marvin Josephine Droke, 
Edna Gregg, Arthur M. Harding, Vir* 
gll P. Knott, Bertram W. Langford, 
Edward V. Leverett, Roy W: Milum, 
Hugh 1C. Morrow, George W. Mullins, 
Edward W. McAlester, Rufus J. NelI son, Charles O. Phillips, T. Randolph 
Quarles, Thomas Scott Risser, Alice 
Shellenberger, Albert F. Stanford,
! Benjamin H. Stone, Samuel S. Swear
ingen, Eleanor Vaulx, James W. WalkCharles X. Williams, John R. | 
Wilson, William O. Wilson and 
Charles F. Wood.
The list of those Who graduated in 
June, 1927, and who had paid their 
dued in the senior class, numbered 
166 names. Only the names of the 
seniors who are bona fide class mem
bers through having paid their dues 
in the graduating class are inscribed 
in the concrete.
The longest name on the Senior 
Walk is Charles W. Scliimmelpfening. Mr. Scliimmelpfening, who re
ceived the degree of bachelor of civil 
engineering from the University in 
1906, recently moved to Shreveport, 
Louisiaana. For several years he was 
connected with the Indiana Sunlight 
Coal Company at Boonville, Indiana.
The walk 1. not only growing on 
the campus each year with the gradu- j 
atlon of additional students but is to I 
be reproduced at the high school in 
Pocatella, Idaho, it has been an
nounced. The principal of the school, I 
during a visit to the University last 
spring, stated that he was impressed 
with the novel idea of honoring grad
uates.
RESIDENT BAKER TO SAIL
FOR EUROPE FEBRUARY 10
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
tional Peace. These, lectures are of 
an educational nature and have as 
subjects The American Mind, 
AmericaTho Land of Realism, 
Mechanization and Standardization 
and American Public Opinion. This 
International Conference to which 
come the representatives from differ
ent states and from countries abroad, 
has its headquarters at our school dur
ing the early part of November of each 
year. The equipment of Pittsburgh, 
and especially Carnegie, makes it pos
sible for a meet of such cosmoplitan 
import.
The trip .will be concluded during 
the early part of April, when the presi
dent will return to the United States.
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle.
Thistledown is able this week to 
present his readers with an exclusive 
news release, so new, in fact, that it 
has not yet happened. It concerns 
the mysterious disappearance of Isa 
Plebe, who is' such a notorious person 
that at one time or another he has al
ready been mentioned in this column 
before. Plebe, who is a freshman at 
Tech, went to his English examina 
tlon Wednesday morning in tne high
est spirits. He had studied his Hand
book thru and thru. The night be
fore, to get himself into preparation 
for that sort of thing, he had writ
ten three extemporaneous themes one 
after the other. Following that, his 
roommate reports, he drank two cups 
of coffee, and retired with a vocifer
ous oath. For breakfast he liad mush 
and bran, orange juice and sweet 
bread. The hygieni department had 
taught, him that fish is not a brain 
food. He went to the. Gym whistling 
Dear Old Tech. He finished the test 
early, and walked out of the Gym 
about ten oclock. From that time on 
he was not seen again.
Now the solution of this mystery, 
of course, especially when there. are 
so many clues, depends simply upon 
how one uses one's head. Thistle
down had a pretty big one, after a 
decidedly strenuous night before, so 
he decided not to. Borrowing the wis
dom of his big bellied colleague, Bag
pipe, he tied a question box around 
his waist, and giving his nose an in
telligent twist, he started off to see 
who he could find on the campus. The 
first person he came across was a lit
tle old lady with a red shawl, stand
ing outside of the Hut. She had a 
.green veil over her eyes, and a large 
aluminum badge which proclaimed 
her a vice president of the Society for 
the Prevention of 'Smoking Pipes on 
College Campuses. Like a true cavaliere, I bowed with a grand curve, 
grinned graciously, and began, The 
question for this week is, 'What has
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
| become of Isa Plebe?' Whats 
that? she said, extending a long 
nickel trumpet. Whats that? I 
blew my query thru it. Velocipede? 
Where!' she cried in alarm, with'a 
quick glance to left and right. I lifted 
the trumpet, and tried to explain 
again. Centipede! she exclaimed, 
and collapsing her trumpet and lifting 
her skirts to her ankles with a little 
shudder, she waddled off down the 
walk.
The next person that Thistledown 
met was a plumbing sophomore. 
The question for this week, Thistle
down began, is Whats become of 
Isa Plebe? Oh, hello Cardo, old 
tub. Sinks, what does it matter.
By this time Thistledown had 
reached the Beanery without a sin
gle new clue. Here, however, the 
mystery was resolved, for there sat 
Plebe outside the door melting off. 
He explained himself woefully. 
Whacker Plebe, his sophomore nui
sance, had challenged his regulations 
inside, and Plebe had given him cer
tain well-known travelling directions. 
In the following tussle Whacker re
ceived a soup shampoo, but my poor 
friend had been stuck head first into 
a can of vanilla ice ciearn. This, I 
consoled him, would probably do him 
good anyway, for he has a tendency 
to be a little hot headed. It was 
enough for Thistledown, who wearily 
walked home to bed.
Dear Thistledown: Is it true that
you really did get a ticket to The 
Tidings? Answer: Yes, and I cer
tainly disagree with my colleague K. 
S. N. How can she call Mr. Green
berg's intonations disagreeable? That 
is much too mild, a way of putting it. 
And how could she avoid mentioning 
his triumph of diction in Act IV 
Scene I when he shouts quite dis
tinctly thru a solid oak door, Open 
up the gates of heaven.,
Dear Thistledown: Who are you j
anyway? Answer: Thats what they j
all want to know.
BOOK REVIEW
THE COUNTERFEITERS BY ANDRE ; French XVII century. Is there anyGIDE
Lehigh Univ. Library Has 
Many Old and Rare Books;
Lehigh UniversityThe Lehigh 
Alumni Bulletin has published a list 
of the rare and old books that are 
owned by the library.
The library was founded by the 
founder of the university, Asa Packer, 
who not only put up a fine and ade
quate building for the size of Lehigh 
at ,til at time, hut also endowed tho 
library- with a half million dollars. 
Dr! William Chandler, tho first dlrpctor of the library, made good use of 
his chance to make Lehighs library 
forgo ahead. Ho enjoyed collecting 
fine and unusual books, and with such 
a largo endowment felt that ho could 
got such hooks for Lehigh. Ills idea 
was to make this a great library, 
rather than 0110 which had books of 
Interest only to Its immediate clien
tele.
During the first ten years 60,000 
volumes were added to the library. 
Dr. Chandler was always watching 
for sales df unusual books, and it was 
during his regime that most of the 
historically interesting books came 
into the library.*,
The upheaval of the stock in th 
Le high Valley Railroad caused the 
loss of the endowment. However, in 
the years between 1888 and the pres
ent, enough books have been added to 
bring the present number of books 
and pamphlets to about 17S,000 vol
umes. Books are being added an
nually at the rate of about 5,000 to 
6,000 volumes.
The library owns about 17 books 
printed before 1500. This is a very 
high number for a library of this size. 
Among these is a fine edition of the 
Nuremburg Chronicle, printed in 1493. 
Ptolemys Cosmographia is another 
early book, printed in 1475. This last 
book with several others of geography 
and travel as De Brys Voyages and 
Iialclyut Voyages are of importance 
not only to persons interested in 
geography, but serve equally well to 
students of history.
Lehigh has the 1 first, second and 
third edition of the so-called Saur 
Bible, which is the first Bible printed 
in Amorica in a foreign language. The 
oldest Bible 011 hand which is printed 
in English is a copy of the Breeches  
Bible printed in 15S3. This Bible gets 
its name because the word Brooches 
Is used instead of apron to describe 
the clothes mado by Adam and Eve 
after tlloir expulsion from tho garden 
of Eden.
There are four hand-illuminated 
Books-of-Hours or Prayer Books on 
vellum, all clone by hand. These books, 
all made by hand by Monks, were folI lowed later by printed books, the 
j printing done from wooden blocks on 
wliidh were carved the characters.
Most of these books are interesting 
not only for their antiquity but also 
for their contents. John Smith's His
tory of Virginia, 1632; Hollinshead's 
Chronicle, 1577, and others are very 
valuable for the history they give.
Experimentors always face a skep
tical public and are, consequently, on 
a very obvious defensive. Andre Gide 
in his novel, The Counterfeiters, is no 
exception. Acknowledgedly an experi- l/)f art. 
mentor, having convinced himself that And later:
form and precise structure had had, | The subject of the novel? It hasnt 
among other things, an artificializing St one, and perhaps thats the most
effect upon the novel, and, finally, , astonishing thing about it. My novel
posing as an apostle, or at least a I hasnt got a subject. Yes, I know, it
seeker of truth, he proceeds t<i> wan- sounds stupid. Lets say, if you prefer
der. He wants to allow, the action, to ft> ft hasnt got one subject ... a slice 
take its course, his characters to do
thing more perfectly and deeply hu
man than these works? But thats 
just itthey are human only in their 
depths; they dont pride themselves j 
on appearing soor, at any rate, on j 
appearing real. They remain works
strange things, attempting page after 
page to justify him departure from
of life, the naturalist school said. The 
great defect of that school is that it 
always cuts its slice in the same directradition. These are 110subtle ex- I 1:50,1  in time, lengthwise. Why not
011868 proffered indirectly 01* by means 
of implications; rather they emanate 
directly from the author himself, who, 
likewise, is the author in the story, a 
story incongruously elaborate In its 
frame structure. These excuses are 
essays inserted deliberately and obvi
ously Into tho book. The habit of di
gression pretends, I suppose, to exon
erate tho author, to onliance leisure, 
a leisure which, synomymous with 
reality for Gide, is to give life1 to his 
story.
So that Guides Counterfeiters is an 
argument against I-Iary and Janies, 
and, more directly, Gide's own French 
literary ancestors, for the sole rea
son that Gide fancies himself the inno
vator. The word fancy is used advis
edly because the literary theory with 
which Gide martyrs himself, namely, 
that life in the novel should 
proceed from form, is very nearly 
as old as literary tradition 
itself. My objection to Gide, then, is 
severalfold: that he is in a false and 
ambiguous position, a theorist come 
a hundred years too late; that he 
writes not very convincingly when 
concerned with theory; that some of 
the life material of his novel casts a 
lurid glow over his reputation which 
has unfortunately made him too imme
diately popular with and tasty to the 
self-styled sophisticates; that the 
technique or lack of-technique, as you 
will, he utilizes is complicated and 
creaky; and, finally, that he has suc
ceeded in writing a very tiresome, dull 
book.
Of these annoyances or objections to 
Monsieur Gide, his novel, his reputa
tion, the last two seem to me by far 
the most important. His plea is to
ward a release from the novel form as^ 
practiced by the nineteenth century 
literary persons, as I have intimated, 
and toward a release from form as 
synomymous with art.
Is it because the novel, of all liter
ary genres, is the freest, the most 
lawless, says Gide in the person of 
Edouard, a novelist, ... is it for 
that reason, for fear of that vary lib
erty that artists who are always 
sighing after liberty are often the 
most bewildered when they get it), 
that the novel has always clung to 
reality with such timidity? And I am 
not speaking only of the French novel. 
It is the same-with the English novel; 
and the Russian novel, for all its 
throwing off of constraints, is a slave 
to resemblance. The only progress it 
looks to is to get still nearer to nature. 
The novel has never known that for
midable erosion of contours, as 
Neitsclie calls it; that . deliberate 
avoidance of life, which ga^e style to' 
the works of the Greek dramatists, for 
instance, or to the tragedies of the
I
its breadth? Or its depth? As for 
me, I should like not to cut at all. 
Please understand: I should like to
put everything itato my novel. I dont 
want any cut of the scissors to limit 
its substance at one point rather than 
at anot her. For more than a year now 
that I have been working at it, noth
ing happens to me that I dont put in
to itreverything I see, everything I 
know, everything that other peoples 
lives and my own teach me. . . 
These remarks of Edourds speak 
Gide's position, for, while believing 
these things lie proceeds to arrive at 
conventionality, complexity in treat
ing plot and character. His literary de
vice is studied, patterned beyond many 
novels which pose far less at introduc
ing a new and lifelike note into litera
ture. Gide, searching for the sim
plicity arid form of life itself which 
others before him have sought, has 
found only a too-detailed, too-precise 
scheme of co-ordinating his theories 
and his characters.
But finally, as I have said, there re
sults a very tiresome and a very dull 
book. The ideas are sterile; the char
acters unreal in their individuality or, 
in the case of Comte de Passavant, 
Vincent Moliner, and Lady Griffith, 
unreal in their typicalness; the style 
is colorless and unmoving; and the 
reader, as a consequence, finds him
self 11ot caring particularly about any
thing that the author seems to care 
about.
To bore a reader with slices of life 
which arent presumably slices of life, 
Gide himself would admit, is an un
forgivable sin. The gift of power of 
penetration, the ability to forget 
theory, the power of selecting interest
ing details, given to Gide might have 
made him an interesting novelist. As 
lie stands he is not vital enough to 
be taken seriously; the public at the 
moment remains skeptical or at least 
the skeptical part of the skeptical 
public; and Gide must prove his posi
tion.
Ann ArborThe Michigan Daily 
prints a small article about a clock 
purchased 137 years ago which for five 
generations has kept perfect time and 
can even tick in unison with tho radio 
announcers timepiece. All of the 
works are carved of woodratchets, 
cog-wlieels and even pulleys. On the 
bottom of the big glass door in front 
is a painting of the first White House 
at Philadelphia which can be recog
nized in spite of the fact that much of 
the pigment is worn off by age.
Writing on the inside of the clock 
says it was invented and patented by 
Henry Terry of Plymouth, Conn. The 
Henry Terry, of Llymouth, Conn. The 
only date on the clock is a slip put in 
by a repairing jeweler reading 1864.
The power of the press is notorious 
in this day. If it has been said once, 
it has been said a hundred times, that, 
broadly speaking, the spread of liter
acy to the masses has been a source 
of loss rather than gain.
This is not calamity-howling ex
actly A fearless examination of our 
newspaper technique does engender 
grave doubts as to the excellence of 
these opinion-forming sheets. With 
scare headlines that could have been 
intended only for the opticiams exam
ination charts and unmistakably life
like photographs, personages and 
events, also in the main extremely in
timate, are flaunted in our eyes. The 
headlines are so peculiarly garbled 
and corseted into the requisite spaces 
as though the writer liad hiccoughed 
all prepositions, conjunctions and 
pronouns out of existence. (These 
lesser parts of speech are reserved to
day only for theses and papers in 
school in the mad attempt to attain 
the required number of words).
The newspaper and the popular 
weeklies with circulations running 
into the millions, it must be remem
bered, actually are the literary piece 
de resistance of that spineless com
mon dominator of democracy, the 
"average man. An impressionistic 
cross-section of the mental machinery 
of this stereotyped, perhaps mythical 
individual, would reveal a curious 
jumble of screaming headlines in type 
of at least 36 point with tags of read
ing matter scattred pell-mell in this 
seat of his consciousness. Opinions 
upon the settlement of the war-debts, 
the war with Nicaragua, the Chi
nese imbroglio are probably chaoti
cally interposed with dramatic visions 
in the contemporary Ruth strain 
Ruth of Sing Sing, Ruth of the Yan
kees and Ruth of the air. The weighty 
problems with which Congress is 
wrestling are considered, certainly to 
pale into insignificance besides the 
latest Hollywood scandal. And as for 
foreign news, what can be expected of 
the doings of people after all who 
cant even talk English?
This might/ be termed an intellec
tual lament The usual rejoinder is 
that the press is merely purveying the 
type of news which is beloved by the 
common man. It is asserted that 
humanity delights, in our emasculated 
peace times, in the detail of murder 
and violence; that marital mischances 
of the near-great delight the ordi
nary mortal in the dreariness of his 
perennial struggle with the home eco
nomics, and so on. .No doubt, the in
genious young men who invented the 
tabloid form of expression have played 
upon the stops that lie deeply im
planted in human nature and have 
reaped a golden harvest.
But the spectacle is carcely eleva
ting. To be pumped full of the coarse
ness and sordidness and the flambouyant cheapness of unfortunate events 
of violence and lawlessness is ulti
mately degrading. What a merciless, 
pitiless light our news-mongers can 
cast upon the miserable plights of 
men. To be constantly reminded daily
of deeds of violence does not add 
moral stamina nor a serene, unbiased 
viewpoint upon life and its problems. 
What degree of effect can purposeful 
education have to break down this 
subtle ingenuity of pandering to 
cheap tastes?
j The fault lies with our editors and 
j their training. The usual conception.
| we have gained of the reporter is that 
I of an indomitably eager, resourceful 
J fellow with a feeling for news who 
j manages to push 'his way beyond the 
I fire-lines and who pushes himself in. 
j spectacular fashion on the scene of 
J the murder, in the boudoir of the 
scandal and into the wreckage. As 
j for the political news and the forming 
and guiding of opinion on public ques
tions, that is left to the editorial 
writers whose chief claim to his post 
may consist merely in having taken 
an advanced course in English in col
lege and or who has attained to some 
intimacy with the department store 
owners of town. If the fount of in- ' 
spiration of this dignitary runs dryr 
there is always the shears and the . 
propaganda-information furnished by 
the various associations interested in 
another amendment to the Constitu
tion or in amending the amendments 
already formed.
The cultural features, by some 
queer fate, have often been relegated 
to the home page, or the womans 
page, and consist largely in hints to 
the lovelorn, how to concoct new 
dishes or to relriove that spot, daily 
philosophizings by retired superinten
dents of schools, and the like. The 
society page is substitute for the 
disappearance of the back-fence 
which was the frontier of gossip and 
the rapid passing of the country church 
as the neighborhood point of assem
bly. The technical or scientific de
partment gives hints on meddling 
with the intricacies of the radio and 
the automobile." Literary expression 
is afforded in the serial story which 
recounts the temptations successfully 
overcome by the lone stenographer 
who later flew by plane to Europe. 
Nor is art slighted, because there are 
parallel-rows of comic figures with 
vari-formed blocks of words issuing 
from them like the materializations of 
spirit-mediums. All these features 
combined constitute the chief readingmatter of the folk.
What is needed to remedy this 
rather deplorable state of an organ
ization of mighty influence is a revalu
ation of journalism particularly in the 
colleges o& journalism. The emphasis 
on the technique of ferreting out the 
news and running it down and dumb
ing it down to the lowest popular 
taste, should be relieved by an ethic 
of restraint, responsibility and appre
ciation of that mighty weapon, the 
pen. Such a readjustment would 
make of literacy av potent means of 
raising standards rather than an un
holy device for preying upon misfor
tune1 and distortion of facts.
It was William Randolph Heast who 
said, Give the pictures, and I will 
furnish the war. And he did.
N. M.
Discussion Groups Form Basis of
Experimental College at Wisconsin
Originality, said Alfred Noyes 
when he was here some time ago, 
"comes only through older forms. 
Mr. Noyes has an active seconder, 
Alexander Meiklejohn, formerly of 
Amherst,, and now director of the Ex
perimental College of the University 
of Wisconsin.
It was first announced by Professor 
Meiklejohn, in the Century Magazine, 
of which Glenn Frank was the editor, 
that he had worked out an idea, for a 
college along medieval lines, in which 
the student would have the benefits of 
closer contact with his .instructors 
than the present lecture system pro
vides. This announcement was pub
lished in the spring of 1925.
In the Magazine Section of the New 
York Times for May 29, 1927, came 
the announcement tharsucli a college 
was actually being organized, and 
would open in the fall, at the Univer
sity of Wisconsin, where Glenn Frank 
is president. In the meantime, Alex
ander Meiklejohn, president of Am
herst, had been asked for his resigna
tion, partly because he held opinions 
on education which were considered 
to be too radical for the New England 
college. President Glenn Frank of 
the University of Wisconsin, saw the 
chance to secure Meiklejohn for. his 
university and to give the experimentor a, laboratory in which to work out 
his ideas. The Middle West showed 
that it appreciated originality and 
new ideas more than the conservative 
East.
Alexander Meiklejohn says in the 
New York Times, "One of the attrac
tive features of administrative work 
in New England is that one can make 
plans and even advocate them without 
much fear that they will be adopted. 
One is relatively secure from the 
dreadful responsibility of having ones 
ideas put into effect; of making them 
working programs; of testing them in 
terms of practical success or failure. 
But apparently in Avliat is called the 
Middle West, or in some parts of it, 
one is not quite so safe in. making 
plans and in advocating them. In
stead of dreaming about a college and 
reporting ones dreams to ones 
friends and critics, one is called upon 
to begin instructions along new lines 
at the opening of the college year 
1927-28, bringing a heavy sense of re
sponsibility. It may be, however, that
escape ffom a} sense of futility is am
ple compensation.
It is of interest, here, to remark 
upon a letter in the New Student in 
which a 'student from Denver, -Col., 
calls this new experiment "The Great 
Futility. This, of course, remains to 
be seen. The letter points out that no 
sudden change in educational methods 
can be of lasting value, and that the 
upstart is doomed to fall and be for
gotten. However, when an up-to-d,ate 
educationalist and author, such a man 
as Glenn Frank, sees fit to give a 
scheme a fair trial, it argues that 
there must be something of value in 
that scheme. Even if from most points 
of view the trial is a failure, it only in
dicates that the youth of today are not 
ready for such educational methods. 
It cannot even then be The Great 
Futility described in the New Stu
dent.
But we have not put forth the form 
this venture is to take. The Experi
mental College of the University of 
Wisconsin is to consist of a group of 
students^ about 120, together with 
some 10 or 12 instructors. The stu
dents and unmarried instructors will 
live in special dormitoriesr set aside 
for them, and there the instructors of 
the college will perform most of their 
research.
The course will take two years and 
will cover several periods of civiliza
tion. The special method of instruc
tion followed will be that of close ac
quaintance between instructor and 
student. Lectures will be largely done 
away with by tutorials, conferences, 
and discussion groups. Here, at last, 
discussion is coming into its own. 
McGill Daily Montreal.
VARSITY RIFLE TEAM
LOSES TO MISS. A. & M.
(Continued from Page 4)
The lineup of the Carnegie plebes
ras:
1. Marshall ..................... 98
2. Montgomery ............... 96
3. McKlveen .................. 95
4. Maidment ................... 95
5. Cole, D. P..................... 95
Genter ......................... 94
Anderson, A.................. 93
Cadmus ....................... 92
Fox ............................... 90
1)1 .
