Read and 
Discuss the New 
ConstitutionarnigtE tan
Mens Musical Clubs 
Home Concert 
Friday, April 13
VOL. XVII. NO. 26CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 1923
 . 1  ............"1 .................--------------- ---------- SPECIFICATIONS 
FOR NEW GYM 
WAIT APPROVAL
i MUSICAL CLUB TO PUT ON
SPECIAL STUNTS AT THEIR 
LAST DANCE, SAT. APRIL 28
Approval of Mr. Porter, Now 
in California, is Still Re
quired Before Plans May 
Be Submitted For Bids
OPPOSITION TO PLANS
The specifications of the new gym
nasium have been finished by Archi
tect Hornbostel and are now awaiting 
the approval of Mr. Porter, chairman 
of the Tech School Committee, prior 
to being submitted for bids. Since 
Mr. Porter is in California this will 
cause an appreciable delay but he no 
doubt will approve them as soon as 
feasible.
Work should hereafter proceed rap
idly although the plans have been 
freely criticized by the alumni and 
others, and branded as inappropriate 
and not in harmony with the exist
ing architecture on the campus. The 
design has, however, been accepted 
upon Architect Hornbostels assur
ances as to its desirability.
As finally approved, the building 
consists of four units, namely a 
womens gym, a head building, mens 
gym, and swimming pool, with the 
first three facing Tech street and the 
pool behind the head building.
The womens wing is a three-story 
structure containing a locker room 
in the basement and a two-story gym, 
40 feet by 80 feet above. The corri
dor joining this wing to the main 
building contains the womens en
trance and stairways to the floors 
above.
Immediately beyond this is a twostory trophy room for women, occu
pying the ground and first floors of 
the main building with similarly de
signed trophy room for men at the 
end.
On the first floor between these are 
administration offices, rooms for spe
cial exercises occupy the second, and 
handball courts occupy the top floor. 
The main corridor running along the 
first floor of this building, and the 
stair cases are so divided that visitors 
will not annoy or be disturbed by 
those using the gymnasium.
(Continued on Page Two.)
The last Musical Club dance of the 
season will be held in the Union this 
Saturday night, April 7.
The music will be furnished by the 
Collegiate Imps, eight pieces. This 
orchestra has earned an enviable rep
utation :n this section, and it is need
less to say that the music will be of 
the highest quality. In addition to 
the regular dance program, some spe
cial stunts will be put on by the mem
bers of the clubs.
TAU GAMMA PHI| 
BRINGS NINTH 
NATIONAL HERE
C. C. SCIENCE CLUB
ENTERTAIN FACULTY
Delta Tau Delta Absorbs One 
of Carnegies Strong Vocal 
Fraternities. Saturday to 
See Formal Installation
CARNEGIE MEN IN 
PARIS PRIZE PRELIM.
Klee and Schmertz Alternates 
For Third and Final 
Preliminary
Robert W. Schmertz of Pittsburgh, 
and E. W. Klee of Evansville, Ind., 
post-graduate students at Carnegie 
Tech/ have 'been appointed alternates 
in the competition for the coveted 
Paris Prize. As a result of the sec
ond preliminary competition for this 
scholarship, Mr. Klee was given
sixth place and Mr. Schmertz won 
seventh place, by a jury of architects 
in New York. First and third were 
won by representatives of Armour 
Institute of Chicago, second place by 
a University of Pennsylvania stu
dent, > and fourth and fifth by archi
tects from Atelier Hirons of New 
York City. -
Of the 25 competitors selected from 
all over the country to enter the 
second preliminary, Carnegie Tech 
was represented by five men. The 
authorities are immensely pleased 
with the showing made this; year, 
and freely predict that the honor of 
winning this most impoi-tant of na
tional prizes will come to Carnegie 
Tech inside of a very few years.
The third1 preliminary will be the 
last to determine theJ winner. The 
five winners of tbe second prelimin
ary will enter the last elimination, 
with the possibility* that either of 
Messrs.. Klee or Schmertz may also 
enter providing one of the first five 
withdraws.
In the" most recent architectural 
(Continued on Page Three)
OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY
Girls Home Concert 
Held on March 22
Mens Glee Club Invited as 
Guests of Girls Club
The Girls Glee Club, under the di
rection of Mi1. Riehl, and the String
ers, under the direction of Leonore 
Davies, gave their annual home con
cert at the Carnegie Lecture Hall on 
Thursday evening, March 22, 1923.
The program was well planned and 
was one of variety that held the au
dience . from the singing of the 
"Alma Mater to the final note of 
the cantata, "The Lady of Slialoth, 
in which Eleanor Mechlenburg sang 
the soprano solo, which filled the soul 
of every one present.
The Stringers, with the aid of their 
two soloists, furiiished the spice of 
the program. Marguerite Harmon 
entertained with two enjoyable read
ings. The real feature of the even
ing was the solo work in the two can
tatas, Eleanor Mechlenburg singing in 
the two, although nervous at the be
ginning, lost herself in the song and 
. everyone was charmed by the singing 
which was of the best ever heard 
around the campus. Maude Cook sang 
the alto solo in the Garden of Roses 
and sang with a low, beautiful voice 
that pleased everyone attending the 
concert.
The Mens Glee Club were the 
guests of the Girls and rendered 
three very short selections. Mr. 
Riehl is also the director of the Mens 
Glee Club, and should be commended 
on the fine work of building up the 
two strong organizations on the cam
pus. Edward P. Riehl has had great 
experience in leading choral societies 
in the Pittsburgh district.
Following the program at the Lec
ture Hall, everyone went t to the Car
negie Union and danced to the strains 
furnished by the Collegiate Six.
M. M. Students Hear Talk 
On Political Conditions
Last Wednesday a week the stu
dents of Margaret Morrison had a 
very enjoyable assembly. Dean Breed 
read the scripture for the day, and 
after the singing of the usual hymn, 
she introduced the speaker for the 
day, Mrs. Smith, representative of 
the League of Women Voters.
This organization has been given 
quite a bit of publicity in our colleges, 
and many Carnegie Tech girls have 
joined it. Its purpose is to teach the 
women voters to vote intelligently. 
Mrs. Smiths speech was very delight
ful. She quoted numerous funny 
anecdotes, and gave much information 
about "The Condition of Politics. At 
the close of her talk she announced 
that her sister is giving a series of 
lectures next month, to which all Car
negie Tech girls are invited. It is 
anticipated that the lectures will be 
well worth hearing.
Election of School and 
Class Officers April 25
The election of class and school offi
cers for the ensuing year will be held 
during this month. J. D. Evans re
ported that the following dates had 
been selected for nominations and 
election. Today the various candi
dates for president of the Student 
Council will be elected, one from each 
school. On April 18 meetings will 
be hdld for the nomination of the va
rious class and general offices. The 
election will then be held on the fol
lowing Wednesday, April 25.
The resignation of T. S. Repplier 
as chairman of the Commencement 
Week Committee was read and ac
cepted. H. J. McCormick was chosen 
for the position.
R. 0. T. C. Battery May 
Be Formed at Carnegie
Major Frick, of the 176th Field Ar
tillery, U. S. National Guard, sta
tioned at the old 18th Regiment Arm
ory, addressed the R. 0. T. C. assem
bly, Thursday. The Major and Col, 
Cunningham are trying to devise a 
scheme whereby there may be formed 
a Carnegie Tech Battery, connected 
with the 176th Field Artillery. Such 
a battery has been formed by the Pitt 
students, and it is thought a good 
idea. A man from Carnegie Tech 
would command the battery, and all 
the officers and N. C. O.s would be 
from here. The periods of drill are 
the chief troubles, for the students 
cannot afford time in the evenings, to 
drill, so the plan is to count the reg
ular R. O. T. C. drill period as an 
hour and a half, which is the' re
quired amount of time for the Guards. 
The pay for the drill amounts to a 
varied amount, in proportion to the 
number of hours and the rank. The 
private gets about $1.12 per drill, and 
the officers salaries are in propor
tion.
Col. Cunningham is greatly inter
ested in this idea, and would like to 
see any men who have any sugges
tions or who would like to join such 
a battery if it be formed.
M. M. SENIORS GET PLACE
TO REST WEARY BONES
At last, the Seniors of Maggie 
Murph have a place to rest their 
weary bones and brains between 
classes, and when they are so lucky 
as to have a vacant hour amidst their 
long mental strain.
Each Senior class, being privileged 
characters, has somewhere to loaf 
where the underclass rabble cannot 
go, and instead of a Senior fence the 
Maggie Murphs have a whole room. 
It is none other than the old store
room on the ground floor of the build
ing, bub one would not recognize it. for 
the books, papers, pencils, pads, etc., 
have been replaced by comfortable 
white chairs, a couch and a table.
The Seniors certainly appreciate 
this because they have been deprived 
of it the first semester of the year.
This week end marks the installa
tion of another of the larger and 
stronger of the National Social Frater
nities, The Delta Tau Delta. The 
Delta Tau Delta Social Fraternity at 
this time takes over the Tau Gamma 
Phi Social Local Fraternity of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
The Tau Gamma Phi Fraternity was 
founded in 1915 with a chapter mem
bership of twenty men. Ever since 
the founding, Tau Gamma Phi has 
kept itself high in activities and in 
scholarship. The National is very 
strict and shows great amount of in
terest in scholarship offering cups and 
cash remuneration to chapters main
taining high scholarship. The Delta 
Tau Delta Fraternity was founded at 
Bethany College, West Virginia, in the 
year 1859 and at the present time 
has sixty-five chapters, Tau Gamma 
Phi being the sixty-sixth active chap
ter.
At the present time the local chap
ter has 30 active members, five 
pledges and one honorary member; of 
the active membership the members 
are well divided between the various 
schools, 14 are members of Science, 8 
of Industries, and 8 of Arts. The 
Alumni consists of fifty members of 
which forty will become Delts, the re
maining ten being unable to attend at 
this time and will become Delts at 
a later time.
The installation program com
mences on Friday night, April 6tli, 
with the last social function of the 
old order in the form of a formal 
dance at the Rittenhouse. At this 
dance representatives from every fra
ternity and sorority on the campus 
have been invited. Delegations aro 
coming from chapters of the National 
located at Pennsylvania State College, 
Allegheny Collego, Washington and, 
Jefferson College, University of West 
Virginia and the University of Pitts
burgh.
On Saturday afternoon the formal 
installation will take place and will be 
followed in the evening by a banquet 
at tho Hotel Schenley given to tho 
newly created chapter by tho Delt 
Alumni of Western Pennsylvania. The 
installation program will bo completed 
with open house on .Sunday after
noon, to which all the friends of tho 
fraternity are invited.
The members becoming Delts are 
Prof. E. Ashe, Robert Bankler, Robert 
Bier, C. Richard Burgis, Lester 
Cousins, Thomas Dempsey, Kenneth 
Foster, Paul Gannon, Harold Hill, 
Dwight Infield, Frank Kitcliel, Emil 
Klee, Wayne Koppes, Robert Kredel, 
Charles Kuhn, David LHeureux, 
James Lord, Herbert Nickles, Frank 
Powers, James Roche, Gilbert Sulli
van, Walter Mitclieltree, and Plebes 
Bell, Lacliey, Lambert, Marshall, 
Strong, Wendlant and Butler.
Tau Gamma Phi alumni who will 
become Delts: B. F. Anthony R. G.
Bergstrom, H. ' J. Blackburn, H. A. 
Bliss, H. H. Burdick, J. O. Cahill, P.
C. Conrad, R. B. Dunham, W. F. 
Eames, E. J. Edstrom, A. L. Heston, 
P. E. Joachim, I. C. Imler, C. W. Hunt, 
(Continued on Page Three.)
FELLOWSHIPS INCREASE 
DUE TO MINE RESEARCH
Tuesday evening, March 20, the 
Scienot Club oil M. M., entertained 
the Scisnce Faculty and Alumnae at 
a dinner and bridge party.
Dinner was served in tho M. M. 
Cafeteria, afterwards everyone ad
journed to the Recreation Hall where 
theiy. played cards. Prize winners 
were Mrs. SpcAcer of the Chemistry 
Department and Mr. Moore of the 
Physics Department. In addition 
the following program was presented: 
Harriet Walker . gave a reading, Lydia 
Heller sang, and Alice Nelson played 
a piano solo, i
CONSTITUTION 
GIVES COUNCIL 
NEW POWERS
Combines Powers and Work 
of the Student Council and 
the Student Activities Board 
Under New Council
COMMENCEMENT 
SPEAKERS SECURED
STUDENTS TO RATIFY
Distinguished Editor and 
Prominent Educator to 
Serve Graduates
Dr. Albert Shaw, editor of tho 
American Review of Reviews, and 
Dr. Shailer Mathews of the University 
of Chicago, have accepted invitations 
to serve as Commencement Speaker 
and Baccalaureate preacher, respec
tively, at Carnogie Tech next June..
Both are prominent men of affairs. 
Dr. Shaw was formerly editor of the 
Minneapolis Tribune, and in 1S91, es
tablished and lias ever since edited 
the American Review of Reviews. 
He has lectured in many universities 
and colleges, was awarded the John 
iytai*shali prize by Johns Hopkins Uni
versity in 1895 for books on muni
cipal governmont, and served, in 1907, 
as President of the Jury of Awards 
at the James town Exposition. Ho 
was also a member of the Board of 
Arbitration in the controversy, in 
1912, between the Eastern railroads 
and1 the locomotive engineers. In 
political science, economics and mu
nicipal government lie is considered 
an authority, and has written many 
articles and books on theso subjects,
Dr. Mathews, who will preach tho 
Baccalaureate sermon to tho Carne
gie students, lias been dean since 
1908 of the Divinity School at Chica
go University. Since 1912, ho has 
been director of religious work for 
the Chautauqua Institution, in New 
York, and has contributed many not
able books on educational and religi
ous subjects.
DR. SCH0EN MAKES 
STUDY OF SINGERS
Tonoscope Used to Visualize 
Voices of Melba, Gluck, 
Alda and Eames
Plans for the continuation of the 
important coal-mine investigations 
now being conducted by Carnegie 
Tech and the Bureau of Mines, were 
discussed at a luncheon meeting 
March 29 of the advisory board of 
Coal-Mine Operators > and Engineers, 
held at the Chamber of Commerce. 
Various problems of research were 
recommended by members of the 
board to be undertaken next year, 
and a committee will be appointed to 
select a series of problems needing 
immediate attention.
The Hillman Coal and Coke Com
pany and the Mine Safety Appliance 
Company, announced through their 
representatives, that they would fi
nance the employment of two addi
tional research fellows next year to 
work on problems. This will increase 
the staff to six research fellows who 
will be selected and employed by the 
co-operative department of Mining En(Continued on Page Two.)
MIDWEST ASSOCIATION
TO GIVE LUNCHEON APRIL 7
The Midwest Association of Car
negie will hold a luncheon on Satur
day, April 7, at 12:30 p. m. in the din
ing room of the King Edward apart
ments, corner of Craig and Bayard 
streets.
These lunclieon-meetings are usual
ly wall attended and it is hoped that 
all members and interested friends 
will come next Saturday. Plans for 
the spring activities and outings will 
be discussed and a general social 
time will be had.
Anyone desiring further informa
tion will be able to obtain it from 
Miss Dea or Miss Culler of the Mar
garet Morrison College or Mr. Olsen 
from Industries.
There is considerable literaul.ro in 
oxlstence of both a theoretical and 
experimental nature on the pitch 
factor in singing, but no detailed 
study of the unconscious modifications 
of a melody made by great artists in 
order to give expression to its emo
tional content has beon made. And 
it was for this reason that Dr. Max 
Schoen undertook a study of tho sing
ing of five prominent singers. It is of 
value to the vocal student, as songs 
are never sung, or intondod to bo 
sung, exactly as written, so that sci
entific data on the mode of rendition 
of a standard vocal composition, by 
great singers provides a source to 
which the vocal student may go to 
seek standards for artistic musical 
rendition.
The main apparatus used in the 
study was the tonoscope. an instru
ment perfected by Dr. Seashore, of 
the State University of Iowa. This 
instrument visualizes the voice 
that a person can actually see himself 
or herself sing.
The tonoscope works on the prin
ciple of moving pictures technically 
known as stroboscopic vision. The 
machine converts sound vibrations in
to pictures on a screen. This screen 
(Continued on Page Four.)
PRIZES OFFERED FOR 
PROHIBITION ESSAYS
One thousand dollars in cash for the 
very ideas you have been wasting on 
your roommates and fraternity broth
ers! All you have to do is to write 
them down on paper before May 31. 
For the Intercollegiate Prohibition 
Association has just announced a na
tional student essay contest on 
"Fighting Booze the World Around," 
or, as their announcement classically 
puts it, "The World Movement 
Against Alcoholism. And you know 
a lot about that subject. Didnt you 
tell one of your friends theother day 
just how you would settle the booze 
problem ?
The announcement says you can 
write about that phase of the subject 
with which you are most familiar, 
whother you come from Kokomo or 
Kankakee, Timbuctoo or Tippecanoe, 
Slwash or Sorbonne. Any Idea about 
it is permissible. Dont make your 
essay longer than 3,000 words nor 
shorter than 2,000 words. The I. P. 
A., 14 W. Washington street, Chicago, 
offers suggestive lists of subjects, 
bibliographies and literature. The 
first prize is 1300.00; the Becond. 
$200.00; the third, $100.00, and the 
fourth, $50.00. And there are five 
$25.00 prizes and twenty-five $10.00 j 
chances.
<1
The proposed constitution and by
laws of tho Student Council as sub
mitted by the Reorganizations Com
mittee were uccepted by the Studont 
Activities Board and the Student 
Council at the joint meeting of the 
two just before vacation.
Different committees have beon 
working on the plan of reorganization 
for the last three years but it re
mained for the committee appointed 
by the iStudent Council this year, to 
put it in finished form.
A copy of the constitution and by
laws has been sent to President Baker 
and the Executive Board for approval. 
The Executive Board will act on it 
at its meeting this week. After tho 
action of tho Executive Board the con
stitution and by-laws will be takon 
before tho separate studont assem
blies for ratification as set forth in 
Article X of tho constitution.
Tho constitution and by-laws as ap
proved by tho Studont Council and 
the Board of Studont Activities fol
low:
CONSTITUTION OF THE
STUDENT COUNCIL
Preamble.
Whereas, wo tho student body of 
the Carnogie Institute of Technology 
believe that tho student bodies of each 
of tho four component collogos should 
bo further unltod as a group of stu
dents and that affairs concerning tho 
entire student body should bo dealt 
with by a central organization, wo do 
hereby place such matters In tho 
hands of a represontatlvo body whoso 
name, organization and powors aro 
defined bolow:
Article .1.Name.
Section 1. NameTlio name of this 
organization shall bo tho Student 
Council of tho Oarnoglo Instltuto of 
Technology.
Article 11.Rcprcoentntion.
Soction I. This Council shall bo 
composed ol! twonty-two representa
tives and throo non-voting represen
tatives of tho studont body of tho Car
negie Instltuto of Tochnology, as fol
lows: President; of tho Studont Coun
cil, 5 roprosontntlvos from thoOViargarot Morrison Carnogto Collogo; -I rop
rosontatlvos from tho Collogo of En
gineering; 5 roprosontatlvos from tho 
Collogo of Fine Arts; <1 roprosontatlvoa from tho Collogo of Industries; 
1 roprosontatlvo from tlio Mens Ath
letic Association; :l. reprosentatlvo 
from tho Womens Athletic Associa
tion; 3 non-voting assistant secreta
ries from the secretarial course of tho 
Margarot Morrison Carnogie Collogo; 
1 Night School representative;
(a) Ono candidate for the President 
of the Council for the following year 
shall bo elected by tlio student body 
of each collogo not lator than tho 
first week of May. Only Junior stu
dents aro eligible for olectlon. The 
Student Council shall elect the presi
dent from this list of candidates by 
a majority vote of all members not 
later than the third week in May. A 
vacancy in this office can be filled 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
GOVERNMENT POSITIONS 
AVAILABLE FOR SENIORS
Senior engineering students are of
fered opportunities by the United 
States Patent Office at Washington,
D. C., in the technical work of exam
ining applications for patents. The 
work is interesting and diversified 
and the field covers practically every 
art and1 science known.
Each examiner is directly in touch 
with the history of all that has gone 
before in his particular field, has first 
hand information as to the general 
trend of advancement and soon be
comes an expert in that field. The 
assistant examiner, after a few 
months experience, is given consider
able individual responsibility and lias 
ample opportunity for technical and 
legal discussions with examiners, in
ventors and inventors' attorneys.
The positions are permanent and 
are not affected by industrial depres
sions. At present the initial salary 
Is $1,740 per annum and by a law re
cently passed, the maximum will soon 
be raised to $5,000. The advancement 
is especially rapid and Is not depend
ent on political Influence. The oppor
tunities for making conectlon with 
private Interests aro perhaps unequaled and there is no bettor opportunity 
for the engineering students who de
sires to work Into tho profession of a 
patent attorney.
Tho hours aro from 9 to 4:80 and 
each examiner is allowed thirty work
ing days annual leave, together with 
sick leave up to thirty days in each 
year, and military leave when requir
ed without loss of pay.
The facilities of Washington for 
further education. either along tech
nical or legal lines are well known 
and evening courses are offered es
pecially for government employes.
(Continued on Page Three)
CAMPUS MERCHANTS MUST 
SECURE PERMITS IN ORDER
TO CONTINUE BUSINESS
By action of tho Exocutlvo Board, 
March 13, effective April 1, all appli
cations for permission to soil mer
chandise of any description on the 
campus or in the buildings of the In
stitute, must bo presented in writing 
to a committee of the board, of which 
the Dean of Mon is chairman. Writ
ten permits will be issued for approv
ed applications. This now regulation 
does not apply to the bookstore or 
lunchrooms. Any studouts now, sell
ing merchandise must secure permits.
P. F. SIMPSON WINS 
1923 LE BRUN PRIZE
Carnegie Architects Take 
First, Second, Fourth and 
Fifth Places
Paul F. Simpson, a graduate of 
Carnegie Tech, has won tho Lo Brun 
traveling scholarship, a. national ar
chitectural prize, according to notifi
cation received yesterday. This Is 
ono of tho most important honors 
ever won by a Carnogie man, and reflocts upon the high standard that 
Carnegie Tech has reached in archi
tecture.
Tho Le Brun scholarship has been 
established for many years and is 
awarded annually under tho direction 
of tho the New York chaptor of tho 
American Institute of Architects. It 
carries a cash allowance of $1,400 for 
six months, travel abroad. Open to 
all collogo graduatos and architects of 
oxporionco, the Lo Brun prl/.o has be
come ono of tho most sought of tho 
national rewards offered In tho Unltod 
States.
Five Carnogie Tech men mot tho re
quirements for competition this year, 
and qualified to ontor tho competition. 
Simpson, who 1s a natlvo of Lima, 
Ohio, was graduatod from CarnogJo 
Tocli in 1921, with dogroo ot(B. A. in 
Architecture. In his Senior year, tho 
faculty named lilm tho honor studont, 
Ho Is a member ol! Sigma Nu frater
nity and of tho Scarab, tho honorary 
fraternity of architectural students.
Mr. Simpson modostly gives most of 
tho crodlt. for his appointment to 
Harry Stornfold, head of tho Depart(Continued on Page Twti.)
Sophomore Classes to 
Hold Tea Dance Friday
Tllp Four-Schools Sophomoro class 
will glvo a complimentary tea danco 
to tho mombors of tho various ot.hor 
classes this Friday, April II, al. 4:110 
oclock, In tho Union.
Tills stop was decided upon as a 
moans of convoying tho thanks ol! the 
class of 25 to tho other classes, and 
to ovoryono on tlio campus, for holn 
Ing to tnaico tho Soph Hop tho groat 
jutccoBB that it. was. Thoro Is posi
tively no string attached to tills 
event; it Is freo to the public, and 
mombors of tho other classos aro ospoclally Invited to attonjl. Tho bost 
orchestra available has boon engaged 
for tho afternoon, and It is expected 
that tho dance will bo a popular feat
ure.
General Electric Co. to 
Award New Fellowships
Tho Charles A. Coflln Foundation, 
established by the General Electric 
Company, which will award fellow
ships to college graduates for re
search work, lias sent application 
blanks to all colleges of tho country, 
which must be filled out and returned 
by April 15.
Accompanying the blanks is the 
first announcement of the details of 
the awards as follows:
"The terms of the Charles A. Cof
fin Foundation established by the Gen
eral Electric Company make provi
sion for the award of flvo thousand 
dollars annually for fellowships to 
graduates of the universities, col
leges, and technical schools of the 
United States who have shown, by the 
character of their work, that they 
could, with advantage, undertake or 
continue research work in educational 
institutions either in this country or 
abroad.
"The fields in which these fellow
ships are to be awarded are electric
ity, physics, and physical chemistry.
"The committee desires to make 
tho awards to men who, without finan
cial assistance, would bo unable to de
vote themselves to research work. 
The fellowships will carry a minimum 
allowance of five hundred dollars. This 
allowance may bo increased to meet 
the special needs of applicants to 
whom the committee desires to award 
the fellowships,
"Candidates for tho Charles A. Cof
fin Fellowships should fllo applica
tions on forms provided for that pur
pose, and obtainable from the chair
man. Applications will bo welcomed 
from Son lor as woll as graduatos of 
universities, collogos, and technical 
schools, but any award to a Senior 
will bo conditioned upon his gradua
tion.
"The commltteo requests that all 
applications first be sont to the Dean 
of Men. The committee desires that 
the Dean file all tho applications re
ceived by him at tbe same time, to
gether with a statement naming the 
two men applying who in hisopin-| 
ion or the opinion of the faculty are i 
(Continued on Pago Four.) J
ANNUAL HOME 
CONCERT WILL 
CLOSE SEASON
Glee and Mandolin Clubs to 
Present Varied ProgTam in 
Music Hall Friday Evening 
April Thirteenth
GIRLS CLUB TO SING
The evening ol Friday, April 13tli, 
will see tho close of ono of the most 
successful seasons ever enjoyed by 
the Musical Clubs of Carnegie Tech, 
for on that evening the annual Home 
Concert of the combined Glee and 
Mandolin Clubs will be given at the 
Carnegie Music Hall. The road trips 
and the work at home done by the 
two clubs have been very good; the 
programs presented have been of such 
ail exceptional quality, that tho man
agers of tho organizations welcomed 
the opportunity of a concert on Fri
day the 18tli, to prove conclusively in 
incontrovertible fashion that no mat
ter what tho handicap, the program 
presented and the manner of Its pres
entation will leave nothing to be de
sired from any angle.
In addition to presenting a larger 
program, with a variety of both com
edy and serious numbers, tho Girls' 
Glee Club Is scliodulod for an added 
attraction. This is tho first time that 
the woman students have had an op
portunity to sing at the mens homo 
concert, as tho guosts of tho mens 
musical clubs, and thoy aro anxious 
for tho chance to compote with tho 
male slngors.
An announcement of interest in 
connection with tho program Is that 
a quartet composed of S. B. Murphy, 
P. it. Dixon, J, L. Gumbort, and L. 11. 
Turcotto will offer,a sorles of selec
tions, both serious and comedy.
Anothor novelty act will bo tho muslo pf tho Collegiate Imps, also known 
as tlio Tech Novelty Orchestra, who 
furnlshod tlio music for tho dances 
following the road concerts, and who 
will also play at tho dance to bo givon 
aftor tho homo conoort In tho ball
room of tho ifotol Schonloy.
M'lm stage manager of tho clubs has 
promised some now and startling. In
novations, which include numbers 
combining both tho sovont.v volcos of 
(Continued on Pago Throo.)
Many Plebes Claim 
Math is Recreation
Novel Examination Discloses 
Other Curious Facts
Tho average student thinks tho 
Plobu tho greenest, most solf-concoltcd man in the school. Somotlmes tho 
Plebe Is all of tills and moro. Some
times he Is Just .lie opposite, a quiet, 
unobtrusive fellow who Is always 
ready to prove his value.
Several graduato students recently 
carriod on some resoarch work for 
themselves to del ermine what a 
Plebos opinion of hlmsolf was, and 
comparison was tlion to bo mado botwoen their own opinions and tho 
opinion of oihors. Usually a persons 
opinion of himself Is very different 
from tho opinion of another person 
W expect too much of ourselves for 
ono thing while for another wo may 
expect nothing at all. The resoarch 
work carried on by the graduate stu
dents consisted ,ln giving a personal 
questionnaire to fifty students 
(Plebe?) and then to give a similar 
questionnaire to twenty graduatos 
asking for their opinion of themselves 
as Plebes.
In a ,good many cases the results 
were surprising. According to their 
own opinion one-half of the Plebes en
joyed Math as a form of recreation. 
Prof. Geckler would, no rloubt, be ex
tremely surprised to hear that fifty 
per cent of the students enrolled in 
Carnegie wero taking his course as 
a course in recreation. However, 
there were two Plebes who were 
strictly honest and owned up to tho 
fact that they were absolutely help
less In Math.
The next question bears out facta 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Colonel Churchill Meliard 
Speaks to R. 0. T. C. Men
Tho members of the R. O. T. C. 
were fortunate in having Colonel 
Churchill Mohard as the speaker at 
their assembly on Thursday. Colonel 
Mohard, who Is a prominent Pitts
burgh Lawyer talkod to lho men on 
Military Law. As commander of tho 
Ono Hundred and Sevonth Field Ar
tillery, at tho Hunt Armory for tho 
prosont, Colonel Mohard Is closely as
sociated with tho military organiza
tions In this soction of tho state.
A brilliant war rocord was mado 
by tho Colonel, for ho was In all tho 
battlos with tho artillery, and was at 
tho front most of tho time ho was 
in Franco. With this as a back
ground, and hiB experiences with law 
here and abroad the subject was made 
most interesting to the audience. A 
few humorous episodes were related 
as happenings which occurred to the 
Colonel overseas, which served to 
liven the talk.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAV, APRIL 4, 1923
CarnspHartan
Published every week by undergraduate of tbe Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of tho Student Activities Board.___________
Entered In the Postofflce of Pittsburgh a second-class matter.
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ...................................................................... BkUtor-ln-Ghief
TelephoneHlland 8G8.ar D. SONNEMANNrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 5)SilX
EDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD..............................................................................Associate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON.......................................................................................... Associate Editor
Re ae dnDiDs..................................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK S. DOWNES................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHazel 1)85)8
FRED C. SMITH......................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHlland 8118-J
FRED T. PHELPS..................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneSchonloy 9102
H. II. WILSON...................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 9850
R. P. HAY ............................................................................................................. Photographor
It. B. KELLER...............................................................W.......................Exchange Editor
H. P. COUSE, JR...........................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER........................................................................................... Special Writer
W. I). CUNNINGHAM ................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211nr C. MAJOR rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchonloy 9102 
' EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Eleanor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertznuin, F, D. IlossJnl, W, Winning, 
L. D. Richards, A. F. Andrews, 13, DeMare, E. Cl. Elgle, A. JO. Krogh, I. H. 
Isaacs, R. G. Kennedy.
ATI. JLIIJTIC CONTRIUUTORS 
E. C. Frazier, J, H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Chrlstofr, II. P. Rossbaclc.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudig, D. Moskovilz, J. W. 
Metro, P. W. Reilly, II. Gibson, W. A. Jaeko, P. Edle, R. L. Sandroclc, B. 
Broudy, II. Urschol.
Tho Edltor-ln-Chlof is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If desired. All nows items must bo in the studont 
postolIlcQ before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OIIlcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
CARNEGIE TECHNOT TECH
It has been said many times; will bo saicl again, and more than 
likely will be said many more times in the future. Carnegie Tech is 
Carnegie Tech, and not merely, Tech. And yet, despite these 
many utterances, there are some connected with our publications 
who still insist on using the single word in referring to our school.
There are traditions here, but the one that is being most widely 
ignored is that oi! always referring to our Alma Mater as Carnegie 
Tech.
One picks up a newspaper in Boston and finds a headline : Tech 
wins cross-country meet. Likewise in Atlanta, Georgia, a paper 
says: Tech basket ball, team captures championship." A Hoboken 
paper also tells the world that Tech wins a football game. And so 
on it goes, whenever there is a technical school, the word 'Tech 
appears as the official word for that school. Tech can refer to 
Boston Tech, Stevens Tech, llcnssclacr Tech, Georgia Tech, Worces
ter Tech, and for that matter, any Tech" in existence.
Carnegie wishes to bo distinctive. We aro proud of our Scottish 
traditionsso very proud in fact that we wish to tell everybody 
about it. Let us remember that, and whenever we have occasion to 
write about our school, use CARNEGIE TECH. If you do not want 
to use tho two words use tho single word, but let that word be 
OARNl'XillS.
Tech." by itself has no place in the vocabulary of a loyal clans
man.
AGAIN WE SPEAK
Agnin the Carnegie Tartan appeals. Tlio little signs saying 
rLHjA.SJij" a,gain adorn the campus. They are pul; up because there 
are some eon nee. tod with the school who have such little apprecia
tion ol' campus beauty, and perhaps such great hook-worms that 
they will, without them, continue to take tho shortcuts.
A. boautiCul campus is to be desired, but as long as practices 
ol! tracking and wearing bare paths across the lawns continue, it will 
never materialize.
There should be no reason whatever I'or placing such signs, but 
there are just tho samo, Porhaps those who walk in forbidden places 
will eenso.to do so when those little appeals appeal. At any rate wo 
hope so.
STUDY POLITICS IN YOUlt SPARE TIME
How much do you know about tho nlVnirn of the world today?
Do you know tho terms under which tlio British oxpoet to repay 
their dobtV
J)o you know causes ol' tho present trouble in Greece and Turkey.V
Do you know lho United States' policy in regard to the German 
Joan V
What is the British attitude toward the Ruhr invasion'/
You don't knowV Well, there is a big place in tlio future for 
Americans who will take the trouble to learn.
If you have read at all, you surely know that the United States 
has been hooked in every deal, which we have had with Europe. Each 
time we have come in contact with tho old world representatives, they 
have told us their terms, made us accept them, and made us like it. 
We thought We were proposing terms ourselves.
The reason they can do this is because they are well up in their 
material. They have made an exhaustive study of conditions, and 
have practiced that they learned. Lloyd George, may his tribe in
crease, studied world conditions and diplomacy before he started 
shaving.
The average American diplomat, so called, gets his first taste of 
diplomacy from the Literary Digest, and he has as much chance to 
fool these men, as lie has of selling Chevrolets to Henry Ford. Our 
ward politicians are clever enough when it comes to buying votes 
from foreigners who can't speak English, and think Volstead is an 
island; but When he tangles principles with these Frenchmen and 
Italians who are brought up with treaties as wall paper, he is lost.
If we have another economic conference, our learned meii will 
probably give away the City of New York to foreign relief, or make 
Germany another loan. They simply do not know their stuff.
Our only chance to keep our country out of hock is for some of 
the present college men to learn enough about economic affairs so 
that they will lie able to act intelligent when Europe tries to make 
another touch. Its a big thing, this European dickering, and the boy 
who is ready to take advantage of the opportunity which is sure to 
come with tho readjustment, will nevor have to worry about the high 
cost of silk stockings.
Think it over, you Seniors and Juniors.
COLLEGE IDEALISM
New Fraternity Directory
NATIONAL FRATERNITIES
Frnternlty. Houce.
Beta Sigma RhoIMO Wlghtnmn IStroot.........
Bota 'l'Ilota Pl~-5519 ForboH Stvoot......................
Delta Tau Doltn- liOIM Forbos Street.........
Delta Upallu522-1 Liberty Avonuo ................
Kappa Sigma-015 (.llyde Street............................
Pi Ruppi) Alpha*1807 Bumn Boulevard...........
Sigma Alpha Epiion1915 ForbB Street...
Sigimi Nu<1921 Frbes Street ......................
Thota Xi'1902 Forbes Street .............................
Telephone No.
.Schenley 037G 
.... 1 lattei 2320 
.Sciumley 92111
___lllland 58
.Schenley IM01 
.Schenley 9285 
.Sehenloy 9211 
,. .Schenley 059 
.Schenley 9113
LOCAL FRATERNITIES
Delta Chi Rho5072 Forbes Street.............................................. .Schenley 90S0
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro Avenue ..........................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta, Idaho Street ..........................................................................................
Delta Xi254 Bellefield Avenue ......................................................Schenley 9102
Iota Sigma DeltaWilkins and Wightman..........................................Hazel 9350
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Afnberson Avenue...............................Schenley 9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi5S12 Bartlett Street...............................................Hazel 9398
Square and Compass Club6604 Northumberland-Street.............Hazel 930S
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forves Street .....................................................Hazel 9422
A country with no Ideals or with 
low ideals is not far from disaster. 
The samo Is true of a life with no 
Ideals or with low Ideals.
Now If high Jdoa7s are found any
where or fostered anywhere in a 
country, we have a right to expect to 
find them In our schools and col
leges. Two reasons may be given: 
First, college professors are notably 
men and women of vision. They are 
dreamers of dreams. They have not 
chosen thplr life work because it 
promisodi tho greatest financial re
turns. Longfellow might have written 
those truthful lines, but he did not. 
However, wo are not going to allow 
his ovorslght to keep those words 
from tho public gaze.
Concerning our teachers, wo speak 
with civility 
A. likeable crowd much learned in 
books.
We should honor, revere them for 
they have ability 
Beyond what Is shown by their 
wages and looks.
Those words prove that the sala
ries of oin1 professors are not thety 
chief' consideration of a position, and 
it follows that association with such 
choloo spirits should develop idealism 
in tho student body.
Again, these high ideals aro likely 
to bo found and fostered in schools 
and colleges because students give 
much tiino to tho study of theories 
and principles. They hpve not yet 
come into contact with what some 
call practical business and practical 
politics, which, are at variance with 
doctrines enunciated in textbooks and 
classrooms. The injunction of the 
war song to "Keep the Home Fires 
Burning" lias a message for the col
lege In war time or peace time. The 
college crowd Is charged with tbe duty 
of keeping the ideals of America out 
of tlio mud and out of the cemetery.
The best way to do this is for the 
college crowd to make its own ideals 
lofty and live up to them or do its 
best trying. Tho planning of some 
elaborate system to make the world 
bettor, or tho posing before the pub
lic as tho worlds hope for better 
things amount to nothing If there is 
not an honpst attempt to enrich the 
lifo and tho ideals of the schools 
through which wo pass on the way 
to tho largor sorvlco. If we are not 
builders boro, it is unlikely that we 
will bo out there. If wo cultivate tho 
spirit of unselfishness and heroic sac
rifice here, wo aro not likely to be
come sol fish snobB in tho presence of 
lho worlds need.The Black and 
Magenta.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIANS
TO GATHER FOR DANCE
It is a woll established fact that 
tho name and fame of Carnogie Toch 
has roachod tho far corners of the 
oarth, but tho Sou thorn California 
Clan was first to herald it on Broad
way.
On March 18, 1923, tho Clan invad
ed tho Morosco Theater which is lo
cated on IDIghth and Broadway. Tho 
ox-studonts from tho hills and valos 
of Schonloy Park forgot, for tho time 
being tholr work, dignity nnd tho care 
of homo nnd had ono largo evening.
It soonied lilco old times way back 
In Pittsburgh at tho Arts Thoator 
tho Hnglnoor, the Artist, tho Bunkor. 
and tlio Solontlst:all mingled regis
tering contentment. The play, "Wo 
dlrhi" mado a docldod hit as far as 
tlio clan was conoornod and certain
ly was a Mido splitting comedy.
After tho show tho Oarnoglo Toch1 ton crossed lho stroot to the Paulais 
and took complete possession of tho 
mezzanine lloor. Through tho hazy 
lends of steaming coffoe nnd cigar 
smoke tho reporter could just barely 
pick out Crawford, ICuapp, Weller and 
other old standbys who aro always on 
the job.
Tho ox-studonts partook of the de
licious oats, talked, planned, panned 
and after it was all over, called for 
their cars and rambled homeward.
Tho next clan event is likely to jbe 
a dance at the home of Miss Otillie 
K. Stock, on 1930 Edgewood Drive In 
Pasadena. Miss Stock has gladly 
thrown open the doors of her home 
to tho periodical invaders of a social 
time and will not let this chance pass 
by. The committee is busy arranging 
for the eats, the orchestra, the deco
rations and the floor wax.
Those who are on the membership 
list can be on the lookout for a writany stray ones, they can procure tbe 
ten announcement, and if there are 
necessary information by calling Mr.
COLLEGE PUBLISHES' 
BULLETINS ON COAL
Roamer divides tbe students into 
two classes. The first group is made 
up of those students who neatly 
packed a couple of books in their grip 
when they departed for home on the 
Easter vacation, and either allowed 
them to remain there until they re
turned or aid them on the mantel 
until they were dust covered. In 
other words they just carried those 
books home to help fill up space In 
tbe valise or to show pop and mom 
that they had books which they used 
occasionally. The other group, after 
the last class before vacation hurled 
tho books as far as they could and !
with a "To ----------- with school de- j
parted for borne and a good time. !
Which group did you belong to?: 
Surely one or the other and whichever I 
it was you enjoyed y-our vacation and I 
the books enjoyed the vacation as j 
well.
Though there were only two groups 
you have to be prepared for the fel
low who comes back and said ho spent 
the greater part of ills vacation writ
ing experiments and studying a little 1 
in advance. Get that sort of a fellow 
in a corner and before you are 
through with him he will admit that 
lie hardly opened a book arid really 
spent an "enjoyable vacation.
Pamphlets Made Possible By 
Subscriptions of Local 
Companies
And that makes us stop to consid
er what vacation really is for. Let us 
cite a few examples. Were you one 
of the follows who could hardly wait 
until the train pulled into the station 
just because "she waB waiting to see 
her hero? Or were you so homesick 
for the folks, the chickens, and the 
pup that you leaped from the coach 
before the train had stopped and cut 
up so that the neighbors for miles 
around paused and remarked "by 
cracky, Sis boys home frum collidge.
Whether you went to see her or 
whether you went just because you 
were homesick matters not. The 
question before the assembly just 
now is: "What are you back for?
Is it to work? If so youre in the 
right place. If not, then you should 
have remained with her on tho sofa 
or helped your father on tho farm. 
Summer will soon be here but be
tween now and then dig down for a 
few P. Q.s. Youll appreciate the 
summer if you feel that you accom
plished something while you were at 
school.
ROAMER.
Dear Roamer:
Now that the Sophs are again set
ting the precedent by giving a free 
tea dance, do you think the other 
classes will follow suit? The Student 
Council has Said tlmt the. tea dance 
idea was becoming too commercialistlc, nnd therefore t]iey made the new 
rulings. Certainly this idea Is entire
ly apart from commercial, and it 
should meet the approval of the Coun
cil. The suggestion | has been made 
by a member of that, body, that there 
would be one danco each week, held 
by a difforont classi thereby giving 
each class ono a month. These could 
either bo free, as this one Is, or a tax 
could bo leviedwhich might be 
callod tho Income Tax!
Whadda you say, Roamer, are you 
in favor of ono a month by oncli class?
OSWALD III.
P. F. SIMPSON WINS
1923 LE BRUN PRIZE
(Contlnuod From Pago One.) 
mont of Architecture, at Carnogie 
Toch, who was holder of tho Paris 
prlzo scholarship in 1914. Simpson 
was a studont of bis, prior to 1914, 
and wlion Mr. Stornfold returned from 
Europe, ho again tutored Simpson.
"Mr. S torn fold's help as advisor 
and critic during my work for tho Lo 
Brun scholarship was invaluable, 
says Mr. Simpson. "If I havo learned 
anything in my work, it is due to 
him.
The award to Mr. Simpson is the 
second important honor that has come 
to Carnegie Tech this year. Several 
months ago. Otto M. Olsen, a gradu
ate of 1922, was awarded the John 
Stewardson traveling scholarship for 
I Pennsylvania architects. Incidental
ly, Mr. Simpsons brother, Russell F.
I Simpson, won the Stewardson scliol! arship in 1921.I---- ........... ..............................
; Weller on 291390, or S21713; or Mr. i Knapp on Pico 6061.
| This is to be a banner event and 
I you cannot afford to miss it. Keep 
I Tuesday, April 10th, open and you 
I will not regret it.
j Remember the date, and watch the 
mails for definite announcements.
Student Calendar
Liberal donations by various coal 
companies of the Pittsburgh district 
have made possible the publication of 
the first series of technical bulletins 
by Carnegie Tech. Four of the bulle
tins on coal mining investigation have 
already been published and the publi
cation of two others is practically as
sured/
The fact that several local coal com
panies have subscribed a total of $2,- 
500 has not only made the publication 
of these technical bulletins possible 
but has reassured the institution of 
their support and whole-hearted be
lief in the Co-operative Mining Course 
now being offered in the Collego of 
Engineering. Co-operation is carried 
on among the three groups, viz.: Car
negie Tech, the United States Bureau 
of Mines and the Advisory Board of 
Coal Mine Operators and Engineers 
primarily or the purpose of the 
proper education and training of 
young men for the mining industry 
with the ultimate aim of bringing 
about greater efficiency in mining 
operations.
The bulletins, put out under the 
auspices of these three departments, 
embrace the following investigations: 
The Yield and Quality of the Gas, Oil 
and other By-Products of the Con
stituents of the Freeport Coal Bed, 
Pennsylvania, "The Microscopic Study 
of the Freeport Coal Bed, "Some Fac
tors in the Spontaneous Combustion 
of Bituminous Coal, and the "Corro
sion Test on Metals and Alloys in 
Acid Water From Coal Mines.
That safe storage of bituminous 
coal is probabfy tbe only solution of 
the problem of stabilizing the coal 
industry, is the declaration made by 
Joseph D. Davis, Fuels Chemist at the 
U. S. Bureau of Mines, and John F. 
Byrne, Research Fellow, in Bulletin 
No. 3.
As long as the peaks of demand 
react back to the miners, the Indus
try will be a seasonal one, with a re
sultant unsatisfactory labor situation, 
say the investigators. "If some sys
tem could be devised whereby coal 
could be stored economically, with 
little deterioration and danger of 
spontaneous combustion, the mines 
would be operated practically the 
whole yearsay, 300 working days, 
instead of 180 to 270 days, as in 1920 
at a uniform rate of production. Un
fortunately, no such general storage 
system has yet been devised."
Bone coal from the Freeport Coal 
Bed, which is now thrown away, com
pares favorably with the best bitumi
nous coal mined in some countries, 
and it is evident that as high grade 
coal becomes scarcer, this bono coal 
will become a marketable product in 
the United States. These statements 
aro contained in Bulletin No. 2, giving 
tho results of a microscopic study of 
tho Freeport Coal Bed in Pennsyl
vania, made by Reinhardt Thiessen, 
research chemist, Bureau of Mines, 
and\Anson W. Voorliees, research fel
low, Carnegie. The study was made 
at tho suggestion of an Advisory 
Board of coal operators and engi
neers, who co-operated to a great ex
tent in the Undines.
Results of the research on this prob
lem showed that the bono coal yielded 
valuable by-products. "From the 
yields of by-products obtained from 
this bone coal, says the reports, "It 
is ovident that it would be of great 
value in some countries, although in 
Pennsylvania it is thrown away. It 
is further evident that as high-grade 
coal becomes scarcer, this bone coal 
will become a marketable product in 
the United States.
It is a relentless old. world; this 
world of ours, for it is no respector 
of sex, creed, nationality or race. 
Ability is the - only thing it respects 
nothing else matters, except per
haps luckthat luck which comes to 
one who is handed all the comforts 
of life upon a silver tray. These are 
negligible except when their be
queathed luxuries are squandered; 
then as with all oi us, only ability 
counts.
But, it is sex that interests us to
day.
Let your imagination take the as
cendency. You are on a lofty pin
nacle. From your place of vantage 
you can see stretched before you the 
struggling masses of humanity. They 
seem like a mighty army suddenly 
released from a centralized authority. 
They are rushing here and there, 
mingling and intermingling, dodging 
vehicles, entering and passing out of 
immense doorwaysall seeming to be 
intent upon some specific duty quite 
different from the other.
It has been said that the world is 
a great melting pot. Maybe it is; 
majyibe not A chemist can. take a 
number of different ingredients, place 
them in. a crucible, apply heat, and 
lo and behold, something entirely dif
ferent comes out.
From our loftey pinnacle, we see 
the-world as a gieat caldron with its 
peoples seething in a great mixture, 
but, what avail? They are only a 
mixture, and perhaps never will be 
anything else. Down deep in their 
hearts, though covered hy a gloss of 
new substance, and to all outward 
appearances, differentinside, they 
are not. They have a fight to fight, 
and just as in time? immemorial one 
tribe fought for their existence 
against the growing aggressiveness 
of another, so dees the modern man 
fight for his very existence.
Id the home a man may be a man, 
'but his actions are fostered by that 
polished veneer called etiquette. In 
the cold busines world, where one 
fights another for supremacy, all this 
veneer comes off and really and 
trulya man is a man, with the old 
cave man instinct of hurray for me 
uppermost.
And as it is with man, it is with 
woman also, for just as a man must 
fight for his life so must the wom
an, for the world is no respector of 
sex, creed, nationality or race.
Despite the much preached thought 
that the womans place is in the 
home, molding that greatest moldor 
of a nations morals into a compact 
and enduring mass, oftimes it is ig
noredby woman as well as man. 
What must be done then? She must 
fight her fight; no more, no less.
The Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College is fitting girls to fight this 
fight. This, the girls division of 
CARNEBGIE TECH, is fitting her 
graduates to be independent, useCul 
and. of service. It is giving to them 
a vocation, so that, if there comes a 
day when it is up to them to should
er the burden, they will have no 
drawbacks.
And so it is, we have:
Barbara Endres1920. The princi
pal pineapple exporting company, 
Honolulu.
Harniet Stone1920. Queen's Hos
pital, Honolulu, Hawaii.
Ruth Pontius1916. Managing her 
own tea-room in New York City.
Grace Rupert1918. Teaching Food 
Chemistry, Hackett Medical College, 
Canton, China, under the Presbyte
rian Board of Missions.
Annette Carpenter1918. Assistant 
Professor of Chemistry, University of 
Porto Rico, Porto Rico.
Elizabeth Yaffle  1912. Research 
Assistant to Dr. J. A Kolman, Dermatological Research Laboratories, 
Philadelphia, Pa.
Alma Hiller1914. Johns Hopkins 
Medical College. At present Chem
ical Research Assistant, Rockefeller 
institute for Medical Research, New 
York, N. Y.
Marjorie Northup1915. Hospital 
Dietitian, United States Public 
Health Service, Washington, D. C.
Mabel Corbould  1909. Research 
Work with Milling and Baking Tech
nology, Chemistry Department, Ohio 
Agricultural Experiment Station,
Wooster, Ohio.
Lu Hartman1915. Supervisor ig 
Home Education, Department of Edu
cation, Harrisburg, Pa.
Aliice LuciMe Wakefield1918. Jun
ior Fellow, Laundry Fellowship, Mel
lon Institute of Industrial Research, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Rebecca Sherman1909. Famous
Players Film Company, New York 
City.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
Old students should knownew stu
dents may be glad to learnthat Pitts
burgh has a store which specializes 
on Greeting Cards for all purposes 
Friendship, Birthday, Wedding Anni
versary, Convalescent, etc. namely, 
the Singer Pen & Gift Shop in Jen
kins Arcade.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
Sunday Services:
Church School ............ 9:45 A.M.
Open Forum ..................10:00 A.M.
Religious Worship... 11:00 AM. 
Young Peoples Relig
ious Union................. 7:15 P.M.
Wednesday.
Womans Alliance____11:00 AM.
A cordial invitation is extended. 
REV. L. WALTER MASON, D.D. 
Pastor.
- Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ...................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
Copies of the Bulletins have been 
forwarded to all colleges in the Unit
ed States doing research work as well 
as to all libraries and technical socie
ties. A supply was also sent to each 
subscriber to the printing fund and 
the balance, about three hundred cop
ies were offered for sale.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4
Student AssemblyCollege of Fine Arts.............11:30, Arts Theater
College of Industries...........12:30, 104 Industries
M. M. C. C................11:30, M. M. Assembly Hall
College of Science and Eng......11:30, 209 Science
THURSDAY, APRIL 5
Drama-Four short Niglit School Plays...................8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, APRIL 6
DnnocSoph Tea Dance (tentative)..................4:00, Carnegie Union
DramaFour short Night School Plays...................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, APRIL 7
Daaico- -TllO Musical Clubs....................................!) :00, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, APRIL 8
Rehearsal...Glee Club.............................................2:30, Arts Exhibition
Mandolin Club....................................2:30, Carnogie Union
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Musical Clubs * Blomo Concert; nnd .Danco__8:00, Carnogie Music Hall
SATURDAY, APRIL 14 
DanceGirls Senior Ball.
SUNDAY, APRIL 15
Recital by Department of Music...............................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, APRIL 21 
BanquetMens Junior Class (tentative).
SUNDAY, APRIL 22
ConcertSymphony Concert by Department of Music...................
..........................!................................*......S :15, Carnegie Music Hall
Seventeen will be produced by the Department of Drama 
"Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, April 11, 12, 13, and on Monday, 
Tuesday and "Wednesday, April 16, 17, IS. The last two nights will 
be Student Nights. Tickets will be available at the Directors office 
in Art School on Friday, April 13.
FELLOWSHIPS INCREASE
DUE TO MINE RESEARCH .
(Continued from Page One) 
gineering at Carnegie Tech to work 
with the Bureau of Mines, in the in-1 
vestigation of problems suggested by j 
the advisoiy board. The investigator . 
financed by the Hillman Coal and 
Coke Company will work on the prob
lem: The shooting of coal to produce
a larger percentage of lump. The 
Mine Safety Appliance Company prob
lem will be: Adaptability of gas
masks in fighting min fires.
Among the topics for investigation 
suggested by members of the board 
are: Continuation of the study of the 
correlation of coal beds of Western 
Pennsylvania through their micro
scopic constituents; extension of the 
study of acid mine wraters tests to the 
actual tests of various experimental 
machinery parts in the mines; mine 
car gear and lubrication.
Dr. Baker and A. C. Fieldner,' su
perintendent of the Pittsburgh experi
mental station, U. S. Bureau of Mines, 
spoke during the meeting. W. L. Affelder of the Hillman Coal and Coke 
Company presided as chairman of the 
board.
SPECIFICATIONS FOR NEW
GYM WAIT APPROVAL
(Continued From Page Ono.)
Tho mens entrance and stair cases 
are at the juncture of the main and 
the central building, with the mens 
lockers in the basement.
The main floor measures 90 feet by 
175 feet with an entrance for the pub' 
lie at the Schenley Park end and a 
stage at the' other end. /An arched 
roof and ample room for spectators 
are provided to improve it as a bas
ket ball court.
The structure is completed by a 
swimming pool, 35 feet by 75 feet, in J 
a building planned large enough to 
permit the erection of bleachers. !
Your 
Friends 
Are There
Wliere ?
Dontmiss WESLEY FOUNDATION DAY . 
April 8th, 1923, at
Oakland Methodist Church
and Wesley Foundation Forbes and Boquet Streets
business building
THE selling of commodities is fundamental in 
every business, and selling life insurance af
fords the maximum of satisfaction and re
muneration. For the life insurance salesman 
is a business builder and finds innumerable ways to 
serve the community and make himself indispensable 
in the conduct of modern affairs.
The life insurance salesman is not only a business builder 
but he is in business for himself, creating a competence per
manent and continuous. It is the best paid work for those 
who are ambitious and willing to woik, and who have the 
character and stamina necessary to stamp their individuality 
upon the business and on their community.
The traditions and practices of the John Hancock are such 
that the college graduate can take a peculiar pride in represent
ing this company. You are liable to remain in the business 
you enter on leaving college. Before making a definite deci
sion inquire into life insurance as a career. Write, Agency 
Department.
cnuD thNwsChoD MlbChHm
of Boston. Massachusetts 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
m
m
m

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
BASKETBALL CUP VOL.X ION2X 6CA.X ROEI 
FINALS ARRANGED LEAGUE PENNANT AGAIN
Three League Winners Meet 
to Determine Holder of 
Scalp and Blade Cup
The finalists of the Inter-Fraternity 
Basket Ball League will present the 
-opening game of the Post-Season Se
ries on Saturday afternoon of this 
week. The teams which will take 
part in this series are Iota Sigma Del
ta, Sigma Nu and Xi Sigma Upsiion.
On Monday, Tuesday and Wednes
day nights of the week preceding Eas
ter vacation, the championships of the 
National and American Leagues were 
decided. Kappa Sigma Rho upset the 
-dope on the first night by decisively 
trimming Beta Theta Pi, 21-9. The fol
lowing night Sigma Nu won the Amer
ican League championship by defeat
ing Pi Kappa Alpha, 12-6. Then on 
Friday night Iota Sigma Delta dashed 
the hopes of Kappa Sigma Rho, 14-12, 
in a thrilling struggle.
Iota Sigma Delta is the champion 
of last year, having won the first leg 
on the Scalp and Blade trophy, after 
defeating Sigma Alpha Epsilon and 
Kappa Sigma in the final series. The 
Iota Sigs will present the same line
up as they had last season and will 
make the other teams step to prevent 
them from winning permanent posses
sion of the trophy.
Sigma Nu has a fast team with 
considerable weight which will count 
in these final games. Xi Sigma Upsi
ion rose from a cellar position last 
season to the Federal League cham
pionship this year. They must also 
be seriously reckoned with in the 
finals.
The Post Season Series this year 
will be played off the same as that 
of last season. Each team /Will play 
each other team a series of two 
games, making six games altogether. 
The team having the highest stand
ing at the end takes the cup. This 
system worked'' out very effectively 
last year, for the first round of games 
ended in a tie, while the second 
round brought out the best team. This 
years series of games will be played 
In the,Field House and there will be 
ample room for spectators. No ad
mission is charged so that large 
crowds should be in attendance at all 
of the games.
The Scalp and Blade trophy pre
sented last year by the Scalp and 
Blade Fraternity, is a fine, large cup 
and will be well worth the effort in 
winning it.
1. Saturday, April 7, 3 p. m.Xi 
Sigma Upsiion vs. Iota Sigma Delta.
2. Tuesday, April 10. 8 p. m.Xi 
Sigma Upsiion vs. Sigma Nu.
3. Saturday, April 14, 3 p. m.Iota 
Sigma Delta vs. Sigma Nu.
4 Tuesday, April 17, 8 p. m.Xi 
Sigma Upsiion vs. Sigma Nu.
5. Thursday, April 19, 8 p. m.Xi 
Sigma Upsiion vs. Iota Sigma Delta.
6. Saturday, April 21, 3 p. m.Sig
ma Nu vs. Iota Sigma Delta.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
In one of the most thrilling games 
ever seen in the Inter-Fraternity Bas
ket Ball League, Iota Sigma Delta de
feated Kappa Sigma Rho, 14-12, for 
the championship of the National
On the Plaid Screen
I
By H. H. WILSON
I Plebes End Unusual 
Basketball Season
SPRING FOOTBALL PRACTICE
Why inaugurate gridiron training in the spring? Well, if not, how would 
develop a new center, a reliable drop and placement kicker, and a punter 
for next fall?
The one year and migratory rules together with the heavy schedule doLeague. With the score 12-12 at the j mand that all available material be rouuded up and given sutlieleut pracend of the game, two extra five-min-!tice t0 enable the coaches to fit them into a more detlnite position when they 
.  B \ enter intensive practice next fall. Several of these positions will be openute periods were necessary before < one i)ejng tiie center, the pivot man upon whom dependable accuracy means
the victor was decided. With but a I everything to a team.
minute to play of the second extra i The men win rePrt every day for three weeks, beginning next Monday.. j Such advance practice would hardly be possible had not Coach Steffen se-penod, Byerly dropped in two free , iected Dr. Marks as field coach and Al Irvin as his assistant,
throws from the foul line and clinched Things look bright after all, dont they?
the game for Iota. *---------------------
The game was fast from whistle to MUSKINGUM COLLEGE OF NEW CONCORD, OHIO
whistle, and with close guarding the ' Has been scheduled to play Carnegie Tech for the opening football game
shots were few and far between. *n tlie Bowl, September 29. Without a doubt three games with mediocre 
There were no outstanding stars both colleees wil1 prove to be the perfecting media for the morale and streugth,__;__as exampled by the leading colleges of the East. Only once in the historyteams displaying an exceptional brand o Plaid"f00tbaii haa Muskingum been met-the score being 15-0, the Scotch of teamwork. on t
The lineup: ____________
Mnlr,a Delta F KaPPa Sig R0 WHO TAKES THE CUP?wi *o t>*tn\ v'.................vr'nnl, ' Twill be a hot battle between Iota Sigma Delta, the standing champs,\\ uson.'b. K. (.u.; .b. ..............MCLOiium Xi gigma Epsilon and Sigma Nu. Plan your time so as to see the InterByerly.................... C....................Rossome fraternity-Dormitory finals which begin this Saturday, 3:00 p. m., at the Field
Hedgren................ G..................Schroeder House. Youll have fun and youll see some real exciting basket ball. Take
Kennedy..-------- G.................Jones (C.) a look at the standing of the teams.
iSubstitutionsMeyer for Cooper.
Gottwals for Rossome. Field goals
Byerly 2, Cooper 1, Wilson 1, Kennedy 
1, Burns 2, Jones 1. Foul goalsBy
erly 3 out of 7, Cooper 1 out of 4,
Burns G out of 9. RefereeFink. Um
pireMoses.
"C MEN
Dig down in your trunk and bring out that "C hat and wear it, not 
for the sake of being "collegiate, but because you are proud of it. You 
earned it.INTER-FRAT MANAGERS 
DISCUSS TRACK MEET
GOLF HUNTERS
There is no reason why this sport cant be introduced at Carnegie. Pitt 
has a team and a schedule this year. It takes some one who is willing to 
give time to promote it. You can be that one to tallc-up golf and suggest 
the novelty of having mixed golf parties for Campus Week.
A meeting of the Inter-Fraternity 
Track Managers was held just before 
the Easter vacations, and while noth
ing definite was accomplished rela
tive to the Inter-Fraternity Track 
Meet to be held this spring, various i schedule, 
committees were appointed to take 
charge of this meet. These commit
tees were as follows: Rules Commit
teeShoerke, Myers and Loughry.
Meet CommitteeSlye,' Scrimgeour 
and Fisher. Extension Committee
Bittner. Medals CommitteeScliucker. Publicity CommitteeChristoff.
Rossbeclc was elected secretary-treasurer of the organization of Inter-Fra
ternity Track Managers.
Every dormitory and fraternity has 
been invited to participate In thi3 
meet, and those that have not al
ready done so are requested to elect 
managers without delay so that they 
can have representation at the meet
ings jvhich will be announced from 
time to time in the next two weeks.
The various committees are work
ing in conjunction with Coach Beeler 
and Track Manager Don Williams, and 
very shortly they will announce the 
method by which the various events 
will be run off. iS'everal plans have 
been considered, among them being 
the advisability of pulling off two or 
more events each week for four weeks 
before the last event, which would be 
the relay race held during Campus 
Week. Another plan is to have all the 
events take place in one week, two 
or more events to be held each after
noon. Regardless of which plan is to 
be finally adopted, it behooves all con
testants to begin training immediate
ly in order to get into shape, as the 
team in the best of condition will 
naturally stand the best chance of 
winning the valuable trophies.
TENNIS OPENS UP
Coach Garland has only two weeks time in which to get his men into 
shape for the first match of the well-balanced schedule which the Athletic 
Council refused to accept until they see the need for expending the required 
cash in this sport.
Tennis at Carnegie has shown itself worthy of expansion and there is 
no apparent reason why stronger opponents are not placed on the Plaid 
schedule. Through the efforts of the adherers of the sport it is hoped that 
they might convince the athletic authorities to see the need for advancement 
of tennis at Carnegie Tech, especially when there will bo no other spring 
sport to interest so many students in light outdoor activities.
Team is Victorious in Nine 
Out of Eleven Games
INTER FRATERNITY-DORMITORY TRACK
Unless the committees in charge and also the managers of the various 
teams show some action the proposed scheme of events will conflict with 
other spring sports, so let's pep it up and complete everything except tho re
lay race, which will be a feature for Campus Week.
The Freshman basket ball team has 
just completed wlmt may be consid
ered one of the best seasons that a 
Plebe team has ever had at Carnegie 
Tech. Their schedule was a hard 
one. They met such prep schools as 
Allegheny High, Kiski and Duquosne 
Prep, but their record for the season 
shows only two defeats in eleven 
games played. These two games wore 
both lost to Kiski.
Coach Beeler deserves a lot of 
credit for the success of this team. 
When he got his aggregation together 
before Christmas he had a brilliant 
array of basket ball men. After the 
vacation, however, he found that sev
eral of his best prospects would have 
to report to tho varsity squad for 
work because of the lack of men. In 
spite of this handicap Coach Beeler 
managed to get together a combina
tion that was a great credit to this 
institution.
Before the team began its real 
schedule It played a game with the 
Heinz House Preps. They lost this 
practice game by only a small margin. 
As there were several of the regular 
Heinz House players on the roserve 
team that night, the showing made by 
the Freshmen, can be considered very 
good.
Tho Plebes began their schedule 
with a victory over Allegheny High 
School. This high school team was 
rated as one of the very best in this 
section. This victory, therefore, meant 
a good deal to tho team. Next, the 
Freshmen defeated the Coraopolis 
Scholastics by a largo margin and fol
lowed up this victory with another 
one ovor Indiana Normal. Both of 
these games were won by decisive 
scoi'es, as the Plebos wore in top form 
and showed that thoy possessed some 
real basket ball strength.
Tho game with Kiski which follow
ed, was the first dofoat for tlio Plebos.
ANDERSON BASKET BALL 
CAPTAIN FOR NEXT YEAR
James L. Anderson, who captained 
the 1922 Plaid football team was re
cently elected to another captaincy, 
that of the Tartan basket ball team 
for next season. The past season
As per tho
JUDGE STEFFEN
Shows partiality neither on the gridiron nor at the bench., 
clipping from a recent newspaper it roads:
Wooed and won while she was but a slip of a girl in a boarding 
school and then chased from her home at midnight in her nightie by 
her jealous husband, was the story which caused Superior Judge W. 
J. Steffen of Chicago to indicate that he would grant a docroo to Mrs. 
Peggy T. Coward from J. L. Coward, judge of Special Sessions, Port 
Chester, N. Y."
The accompanying pretty picture is here misslrt&.
VARSITY TRACK
Theyve been kicking up the cinders for several weeks in preparation 
for tho busy days that will soon bo bore. Probably the hardest day of all 
for the harriers will bo April 28, when Coach Beolor will send his 440 men 
to the Penn relays and his best jumpers to the Drake rolays, but lcoop tlio 
remainder of tho squad to compete in tho Marietta dual moot which -will be held at the Schenley Oval.
Varsity Tennis Schedule 
Has Many New Matches
GOVERNMENT POSITIONS
AVAILABLE FOR SENIORS
(Continued From Page One) 
Further information may be had 
from the employment ofTice or from 
the United States Civil Service Office 
at 508 Grant street. Immediate at
tention is desired, since examinations 
for positions will be held in the near 
future.
Hibernia Bank & Trust 
New Orleans, Louisiana 
FAVROT & L1VAUDIAS, Ltd., Architects
'Expression in Architetture
TN the bank building the architect has sought always to express the 
ideal of dignity: the engineer has expressed the deal of stability. 
Archi tect and engineer together have made of the American business 
building a co-ordination of design, construction and equipmen t thac 
is a world criterion. * Each year finds the American business building 
anticipating even more remarkable developments in the near future. 
Certainly modern inventionmodem engineering skiU and organiza
tion. will prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture 
of theffuture.
OTISELEVATOR CO MPA
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World
N Y
Several varsity tennis matches 
have been added to the 1923 schod 
ule, which was partly published pre
vious to this date. This schedule as 
it stands is not complete, but the 
few matches that are yot in tho 
hands of Manager Kreisle, will prob
ably) be played with colleges and 
universities in this section of the 
state.
During the last two weeks many 
of the twentyj candidates who have 
reported for regular practice have 
taken advantage of the asphalt courts 
on Squirrell Hill, while others prefer 
to take a workout with their raquets or without their raquets at the 
Field house.
The following schedule was pub
lished in the city papers before the 
meeting of the council, but since the 
contracts for these games have al
ready been signed, this schedule as 
it stands will no doubt be official 
after the new council meeting. -
The schedule follows:
April 21West Virginia, there.
Apiil 26West Virginia, here
May 1Wasli.-Jeff., here.
May 3Wash-Jeff, there.
May 5Allegheny, there.
May 10Michigan, there.
May 12Western Reserve, there.
May 14-------Michigan, there.
May 25Oberlin, here.
May 26Allegheny, here.
May 30State, there.
May 31Yale, there.
June 1Princeton, there.
June 2Lehigh, there.
CARNEGIE MEN IN
PARIS PRIZE PRELIM
Graduation Robs Carnegie 
Of Veteran Floor-Guard
With the closing of tho basket ball 
season comes the tidings that Robort 
L. Gibson, versatile guard the Car
negie Tech varsity quintet, will grad
uate this yaar. Gibson first playod 
on tho varsity squad in Ills sophomore 
year, after having mado an oxcollont 
showing on tho Freshman toam. 
Through his steady playing that yoar 
he was elected to head tho team for 
the following season. As captain of 
tho 1921-22 squad, he furthered his 
reputation as a capable leader and 
player.
His playing has beon featured by 
his extraordinary floor work, for al
though he 1s small, he Is very fast 
and alert. And no matter what the 
trend of the game, he is always light
ing and seeking to imbue the rest of 
the team with the same spirit. His 
performance this year was such as to 
place him among the stellar guards 
of the district, and his absence will 
be keenly felt when next years var
sity is selected.
Gibson lives in Pittsburgh, but pre
pared at Monessen High School. He 
is now a Senior in the College of In
dustries, and is a member of the 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.
ANNUAL HOME CONCERT
WILL CLOSE SEASON
(Continued from Page One) 
the Glee Club, and the fifty picks of 
the mandolin club, with the sonant 
qualities of the seventy members of 
the Girls' Glee Cluh. This combina
tion will be used to present for the 
enth time the new music written by 
Prof. J. Vick OBrien for the Carnegie 
Alma Mater.
All in all, the concert promises to 
I be one of the best-balanced, best-pre
sented series of efforts yet attempted 
by the combined clubs, and It is the 
earnest desire of the men in charge
(Continued From Page One.) 
problem conducted by the Beaux 
Arts Institute of New York, judg
ments of which have just been re
ceived, Herbert B. Tross of Buffalo,I of arrangements that the hall be filled 
N. Y a Carnegie Tech student, was to capacity that night. If tho musical
clubs will gamble on Friday tho 13th, 
then Carnegie men and womon should 
have no hesitation In gambling on a 
musical program given on that even 
ing, for unless tho quality of tho 
events were unquestioned, no producer 
would have the tomorlty to present a 
program on an evening so inauspi 
clous.
awarded first mention and placed.
Other Carnegie Tech students to win 
first mention were: J. D. Mawhirjney and Alfred D. Reid of Pitts
burgh, John L. Cousins of New Or
leans, La.; William W. Hlbbs of 
Norfolk, Va and F. J. Taylor of 
Sharon, Pa. The problem, in Class 
B, was the design of A Bank in a 
Small Town.
Another excellent showing was! Oh, no, Alonzo, just because you 
made by the Carnegie Tech students \ have socks with clockB on them does
in the Class C Analatiques problem, j not necessarily mean that you must
of a "Pavilion. First mention and; wear them eight days.The Daily 
place award was won by George B. I Texan.
Allen oi Tarentum, Pa., and the fol-|-----------------------------
lowing won first mentions: William HeWhat did you do last night?
S. Forsythe of Pittsburgh; Claude O. SheNothing to speak of.
Garland of California, Pa., and Paul j HeTell mje, I won't tell anyone.
H. Sload of Columbia, Pa. i The Daily TJsxan.
A Great 
Dance 
Record
Played by
I SHAM 
JONES
ORCHESTRA
Fox Trotfarewell
Elves'
(Reverse side)
Sawmill River Road
From 'Glory
Record No. 2406 
A Striking Exmi>l? of Clear Ileconllmr
New Records Every Day
B runswick dealers have new 
records daily. No waiting. 
The world's truest reproductions. Play on any pho
nograph. Hear. And 
compareTODAY.
JIMMY ANDERSON
was his third one on the squad. His 
playing throughout the season was 
brilliant and stood well up among 
the Tri-state scorers. Duo to the in
eligibility of Captain Boll, he was 
acting captain of the 1923 squad and 
proved himself an able lloor leader.
Andy comes from Monongahela 
High iSlchool. As an athlete he does 
not stick to basket ball, having beon 
a star performer for tho past, three 
years on the Carnegie football squad. 
He Is a member of tho Class of 1924, 
taking tho course In Metallurgical 
Engineering. Rsr Is also a membor 
of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity 
and several class societies.
FIRST TRACK MEET 
WILL BE APRIL 28
Team to Enter Penn Relays, 
Drake Relays in Iowa 
and Marietta Dual
With spring daily becoming more 
of a reality rthe track team and the 
plans for the season aro beginning to 
talce definite shape. April 2S is tho 
date of tho first meet. On that date 
tho Drake relays will bo under way 
in Iowa, tho Penn relays at Philadel
phia will occupy, the eastern lime
light, and we in Pittsburgh will have 
the Marietta dual meet to thrill us.
As before announced, Carnegie will 
compote in all tlireq of these meets. 
Several special events in which we 
are especially strong will be on the 
program at Drake.. . One of these is 
the broad jump, in which Pittman and 
Robertson hold enviable marks. The 
mile relay team will probably be sent 
to Philadelphia to bring glory to the 
Plaid.
It is yet early in tho season to pre
dict who will represent Carnegie in 
tho various events, but below are a 
few of the men who are showing up 
especially well in their'events.
Among tho weight men are Comfort, 
Morrison, Eaton, Laiulis, Scliillinger, 
Thompson, Yoder, Mlddloton and 
Sprinkle. Dykoman, Ferrall, Menden
hall, Tubbs and Foller aro doing -well 
at tho mile and two-mlle ovonts. For 
tho middle distances Brumbaugh, 
Cooper, Saold, Gare, Lockwood and 
Schwab are competing.
Some of the good looking liurdlors 
aro Gare, Loughrle, Schucker, Sulli
van, Robertson. Lockwood, llobortson, Christoff and Bohn aro oxcelling 
in tho dashes. Pittman and Robert
son aro doing woll at the broad jump, 
whllo Mattor and Seaman aro striving 
for high marks in tho polo vault.
It was a hotly contested battlo and 
although the Froshmon lost, it was 
only by two points. Following this 
dofoat thoy scorod a straight lino of 
vlctorlos ovor Wostingliomio Toch, 
Duquosno Props, Indiana Normal, Cal
ifornia Normal, Brad dock High and 
Wostlnghouso Toch In a socond game. 
Tho final gamo was playod with Klalcl 
and again our boys had hard luck and 
got tho small ond of tho scoro.
Amans, Roltor and Goodwin were 
throo of tlio rogulurs who distinguish
ed thomsolvos by playing oonsliitont, 
good basket ball throughout tlio sonson. Toots Amans took tho honors 
for bolng tho high polnt-scoror of tho 
toam. Some ol! tho other boys who 
playod In most of tho games aro: 
Burt, Jackson, Smith, Edlo and Janos. 
Tho following Plebos won their nu
merals: Amans, Heitor, lloodo, Good
win, Jackson, Cook, Smith and Edlo. 
From all Indications there will not bn 
a lack of varsity mnlorlnl next year. 
Those Froshmon received training 
which will no doubt malco thom good 
matorlnl for tho varsity toam.
FINAL STANDING OF LEAGUES
National Longue.
W. L. Pet
Iota Sigma Delta.................. 7 I .875
Kappa Sigma Rho..............7 2
Botti Tliota PI...........
Scolici 1 Hall .............
Dolta Epsilon Omoga------8 4 .42?
Sigma Alpha Epsilon...
Sigma Epsilon Phi...........
Dolta Phi Dolta................
TAU GAMMA PHI BRINGS
NINTH NATIONAL HERE
(Contlnuod From Pago One.)
E. II. Johnson, H. H, Johnson, W. S. 
McAtoor, W. S. Mlllor, J. M. 
Montstroam, L. J. Murphy, O. 
R. Olmstead, E. M. * Pugh, II.
E. Rudy, lt. R. Sawhlll, G. O. Schoonovor, II. L. Spencer, H. W. iStono, O. 
W. WolRold, H. A. Welland, B. F. 
Squlros, .10. G. T. Dlvlloskls, L. II. 
Halo, H. F. Lundoen, V. L. Mattson,
F. F. Slnimway, M. S. Wadsworth, J. 
A. Burg, It. A. Gaines.
wL.
.777 
 2 .750 <1 8 ,r,71
2 G 
1 6 
0 7
28G
.148
.000
America*League.
W.L.Pci.
........... 71.875
Pi Kappa Alpha.............. (!2.750
........... fi2.71-1
Tau Gamma Phi............. 43.571
Delta Upsilon -----........... 34.420
r>.280
5.285
7.000
Federal League.
W. ti. Pet.
XI Sigma Upsiion.............. 6 0 1000
Beta Sigma Rho.................. 5 1 .833
Kappa Sigma ...................... <1 2 .667
Theta Xi .................................. 2 4 .333
Henderson Hall .................. 2 4 .333
Welch Hall ........................... 1 r. .1GV
Squaie and Compass.........1 5 .107
"Wlmt uro you dulnit, I'ylli wrltlnir I lor iiuollior loi tor P"
Pyihlax-n 
"Nonol ttntF limit, Somtilliliifc mura lo (Im point, mi ono would ii.'iy. I'm wiillni; lho Pitlor to oaflIMd n dozen Kldonido poiiollii, Thoy mi- nil >iold oui down at III Mloro."
DIXON'S
SOSJ
Ifte f/i/.rS'Se/ pindi"
a Irmini ./.i--
LIFE
Ono has not really lived 
until he has gone abroad. 
No need to put off the 
trip until another year, 
The came rare Interest 
awaits.
Let us arrange every
thing for you, passage, 
letters of credit, side 
trips, through our Steam
ship Agency.
Mellon National Bank
Oliver Smithfield
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Toch students will find that our prlcas aro in keeping with the 
quality and service.
A, W. Smith Company
LIBEP.TY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.

---------------------------------------------------

?AGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWS
PITTSBURGH CLAN TO HEAR
DEAN CONNELLY, APRIL 7
Tho Pittsburgh Clan Luncheon will 
ho hold Saturday, April 7. Tho 243 
of you who had a good timo at tho 
last luncheon should spread tho good 
nows In order to swell tho attendance 
to at least three hundred. A little In
dividual effort will do tho trlelt, and 
you will reap pleasure from tho re*
SUltB.
Lost Auld Accjtialntanco Bo For
got," coino and wolcorne Dr. 0. B. Con
nolly who ha again resumed lllH act
ive connection with Carnogie Tech 
since hie retirement as Commissioner 
of ipabor arid Industry of Ponnsylvanla. Moat of you have heard him 
at ono time or another and remember 
that ho 1y always an Interesting speak* 
or, whatever tho occasion. Lots show 
him how glad we aro to have him with 
us again.
You will alao want to near tho pre
liminary announcements concerning 
Campus Week. Then too, no doubt 
you have been trying to glean the real 
facts about our athletic situation aB 
tho newspapers do not lmvo them. 
Lending your ears will prove to be a 
profltablo investment. Finally, lot 
your sonflo of duty create tho desire
to hoar the nominations for dan offi
cers for tho next year. At times when 
the excitement is at Its height, there 
will bo music to soothe tho shattered 
nerves.
On Saturday, April 7, all highways 
and byways will load to the Fort Pitt 
Hotel. Therefore, detach tho stub 
from the postal card -you received and 
inali It to A. J. Hynd, C. I. T., so that 
It reaches him not later than Thurs
day, tho tith.
M.M. Alumnae to Hold 
Card Party on April 21
Profits to Benefit M. M. Alum
nae Scholarship Fund
NEW YORK CLAN HOLDS
ELECTION OF 0FFICER8
Tho New York Clan elected the fol
lowing officers and elected commit
tees at a recent meeting to servo for 
tho next year:
President, J. A. Cameron; vice pres
ident, M. L. Patterson; secretary and 
treasurer, E. M. Grotzlor.
Committee on Arrangements: Geo.
C. Bauer, ehalnnan; A. J. Kerin, L. 
M. Merrill.
Athletic Committee: F. C. Young,
Chairman; N. A. IIolliBtor, J. M. 
Guter.
Executive Committee: Geo. L.
Burgess, Chairman; J. A. Cameroo, M. 
L. Pattorson, E. M. Grotzlor, S. A. 
Smith, G. A. Bauer, F. C. Young.
DR. 8CH0EN MAKES
STUDY OF SINGERS
(Continued from Page Two) 
has olghtoon thousand and nlnotyflvo holes so placed that, when acted 
upon by a sensitive iiame, tlieso holes 
arrange themselves in characteristic 
figures for every possible pitch within 
tho range of tho human voice.
The holes aro arranged into ono 
liundrod and ten rows, tho first row 
having ono hundred and ten holes, 
tho third having ono hundred and 
eleven holes, and so on, oach success
ivo alternato row having ono more 
hole than tho preceding one, up to tho 
last, which has two hundred and nine
teen holes. Whon a tone is sounded 
tho row having the bolo frequency 
which corresponds to tho vibration 
frequency of the tono will stand still, 
while all tho other rows movo and 
tend to blur. Tho row that stands 
still or nearly so, points to a num
ber on tho scalo which designates tho 
pitch of tho tono. The tonoscopo tluis 
producos for tho eyo a picture of tho 
vibrations of a tono, a ploturn -which 
rovoals dotalls of pitch faithfully and 
far more flnoly than tho oar can hoar.
It thus affords a most sonsltlvo, ob
jective moasuromont of pitch. Every 
pitoh movement of tho volco in pic
tured on tho screen, and tho obsorvor 
can toll at tho vory moment a tono 
is produced whothor an error is in
volved, ovon down to a small fraction 
of a second.
For tho purpose of this study a 
phonograph record of tho singers 
volco was substituted for tho actual 
voice. Tho Baoli-Oounod "Avo Mario" 
was cllQflOri for study find tho follow
ing sliiKors, all sopranos, wero se
lected, Nellie Melba, Alma Glunk,
Frances Alda, Emnpi Eames and Em
my Dentimi.
Under tho general term pitch, tho 
following spool (le I town wore studied 
for ouch tono of tho composition for 
oach singer:
Davies & Hughes
Onklnn'a Men' Store
HATS CAPS MENS FURNISHINGS
3615 Forbes Street Next to Strnnd Theater
Open every night
1. Attack. How a tono Is attacked 
when preceded by a higher tono, a 
lower tono, a rest, when the sung 
tono is if long duration and when it 
,y of short duration.
2. Release. How a tone is re
leased when succeeded by a higher 
tone, a lower tono, a roat, when the 
sung tone Is of short duration and 
when it is of long duration.
3. Predominant pitch. The devia
tions above and below this predomi
nant pitch.
4. Vowel. The effect of tho vowol 
on which the tono is sung on the pitch 
of tho tono.
1. Tonal movement. How tho 
Bingor moves from tono to tone, 
whothor by glides of loaps, and to 
what degree. Thus, In tho case of a 
glido tho movement may bo heavy 
and slow, tho volco dwelling upon 
ovory vibration intervening between 
tho tones, or it maybe light and quick 
so as hardly to bo perceptible to oven 
tho most acuto oar.
(!. Tho orosondo. Tho offect of a 
rise In tho Intensity of tho tone upon 
Its pitch.
Summarizing tlio findings Dr. 
Schooij found that Insofar as thoso 
five singers aro concerned:
1, A tono is almost invariably at
tacked below tho pitch intended whon 
it Is procedod by a lowor tono, and In 
tho majority of casos It Is roleasod 
abovo. Tho largost orror occurs when 
tho tono Is sung at rost. And tho 
largor tho tono tlio longer tho orror.
2. A tono Is vpry rarely sustalnod 
on tho samo pitch for an Interval of 
time boyond half a second, tho num
ber and extent of tho dovlatlons do* 
ponding on tho Individual characteris
tics of tho singer.
1. Two tones of the samo pitch and 
of equal duration aro never sung 
twice tho samo way, hut vary In tho 
number and tho extent of tho fluctua
tions as well lN In tho pitch of tho 
predominant tones.
4. Tho vowel quality seems to
Now Biggs Gets to Class On Time!
AN exciting tale of adventure might be written about 
the hunting expeditions Biggs used to make after 
the elusive cap of his old tube of shaving cream. For 
months Biggs was late to class because he spent valuable 
minutes scouring the corners of the bathroom for a cap 
that persisted in getting lost.
But those troubles are over. For Biggs has started 
using Williams Shaving Cream, which comes in a tube 
with a hinged cap that cant get lost. You see pictured 
here this cap which saves, his time and patience and 
which will do the same for you.
The convenience of the Hinged Cap would alone 
be ample reason for your 
using. Williams. But when 
you consider that in addition 
Williams is good for your 
skin, and is the most remark
able- beard softener known, 
then it does seem that you 
would be missing a good deal 
in getting along without it:.
Buy a tube and see if it isnt 
vastly better.
Williams
Shaving Cream
Notice the.hino>'<l 
on)>. You can't loso itjhJ ihn tiibtihaiips vj>/
A card party for the benefit of the 
M. M. Alumnae Scholarship Fund will 
bo held on Saturday, April 21st, from 
2 to 5 p. m., In tho dining room of 
Kaufr/iann's Big Store. There will be 
tables for both bridge and 500," at 
five dollars a table. Tho Kaufmann 
dining room is an ideal place for such 
an affair as tho room is quite large 
and cheerful.
Tho Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association Annual Scholarship Bene
fit. may never have been hoard of by 
some of tlio Carnegie Tartan readers, 
and, for tho benefit of thoso few, the 
association Is glad of this opportunity 
to explain tho nature and purpose of 
tills event.
Each yoar the Alumnae Associa
tion awards full tuition scholarships 
to girls in tho incoming iSenior class 
of tho Margaret Morrison College. 
Tho number of scholarships that are 
given depends upon the financial sucoyy of the "Scholarship Benefits." 
Tho larger tho proceeds, the more 
glrlB we are able to make happy! The 
girls who receive these scholarships 
are chosen by a committee from the 
association in co-operation with Di
rector Breed. This committee inves
tigates the financial needs of the dif
ferent girls, taking into consideration 
also the scholastic standing and the 
interest shown in the school; and up
on this baBis the awards are made. 
There are always more girls whom we 
should like to help than we have 
scholarships to offer, and each year 
a greater effort is made- to increase 
tho fund in order to assist a larger 
number of girls in their Senior year.
Wo feel that tills is a worthy 
cauBe and ono deserving the sympa
thy and support of every one who is 
interested in college girls, and espe
cially in thoso girls who aro endeav
oring to get a college education on 
very limited means. In many cases, 
in order that they may continue in 
collego, thoy are obliged to give up 
many of tlio social pleasures and
school activities for outside work af
ter school hours. Tho Association's 
gift has always been deeply appre
ciated.
Tho Scholarship Benefit Is one
ovont In which all may participate 
nnd in which wo should fool no hes
itancy In asking our friends to partic
ipate.
Tho committee In charge of ar
rangements consists of tho following: 
Frances V. Rayburn, MO, chairman; 
Anna Coto Dodds, '10; Ilolen Shep
pard Ehborts, 10; and Margarot Wlrtli 
Towl, *17.
have but an inslgnlficnnt offoct on the 
pitch of tho tono, though a slight ten
dency Is prosont to sing tho vowels 
"1" and "o" highest, tho otliors rank
ing In this order "a", "o", "u".
fi. Tho llvo singers aro divisible 
Into throo dassos In tho matter of 
tonal steadiness and tho numbor and 
oxtont of tho fluctuations: Molba
and Gluck having tho steadiest voices 
with lho fewest and smallest fluctua
tions, Eames having a stoady tono 
with few fluctuations, but of marked 
oxtont whon thoy occur, while Alda 
and Dostlnn manifest unsteady tones 
with fluctuations largo In numbor and 
oxtont.
(1. Tho movomont from tono to 
tono is predominately In tlio form of 
glides, but varies In dogroo for tho 
dlfforont singers being hoavior for 
somo than for otliors.
7. A tondoncy for a riso in pitch 
with a riso In intensity is manifest 
throughout.
8. There exists a tendency for all 
singers to sing sharp.
MANY PLEBES CLAIM
MATH IS RECREATION
(Continued on Page Four.) 
as seen by the Sophs this year. Not a 
Plebe in tho fifty put himself down 
as a daredevil. Most of-them claimed 
that they would take reasonable 
chances but, of course, reasonable 
could in this case be used to take in 
or leave out many different condi
tions. Two Plebes claimed that they 
had no nerve at allthat they get 
"cold feet on all problems requiring 
any nerve.
In answering the question as to how 
talkative they were the Plebes were 
very modest. Thirty-six of tho fifty 
had the opinion that they wero only 
moderatel3r talkative, one claimed that 
he was an incessant talker. Can you 
imagine only one Plebe In fifty being 
a great talker9 If the figures were 
reversed, thirty-six being very talka
tive and on6 moderately talkative the 
figures would seem more exactly fit
ting to prosont conditions.
Throo of tho Plobes .must certainly 
bo "lady killers." According to them
selves they aro always at easenever 
solf-consclous. Most of tlio Plobes 
confoss to being ombarrassod vory 
frequently.
Even tho graduatos linvo an exulted 
idea ol themselves as Plebos. Of the 
twenty quostlonod most of them 
agreed that they wore not vory syste
matic. had little executive ability, 
that they wero not vory careful of 
tho reputation of otliors, or mindful 
of others rights, and that thoy wero 
little Interested in plcturos and art. 
In addition most of them claimed that 
thoy wero truthful and trustworthy, 
cheerful, carefree, self-conscious, and 
sociable. Surprising to say none of 
them drank alcoholic beverages as 
Plebes. Those twenty must certainly 
have been model Plebes.
M. M. ALUMNAE HOLD 
PAGEANT OF COSTUMES
The pageant of costumes, old and 
new, which was given by the Marga
ret Morrison Alumnae Association at 
their monthly tea on Saturday after
noon, March 17, In the M. M. Recrea
tion Hall was a novel affair.
The contrast between womens 
dress, worn at tho time of the Amer
ican Revolution with the crinoline, 
the hoops, the basque and the "wasp" 
waist; and the modern costume of to
day with the straight tailored lines, 
was featured by the display of real 
gowns on real models.
Miss Jane Fales, head of the Cos
tume Economics Department, gave a 
brief talk on "Spring Styles." Cos
tumes from the clothes shop at the 
school were among those displayed, 
as were also dresses, suits, millinery 
and shoeB which wero loaned for the 
occasion by the Drama Department 
and by various East Liberty shops. 
Satisfaction was expressed through
out the audience in the "common 
sense" styles of today, and the con
trast in dress quite clearly proved 
that women are getting wiser and 
saner every day in every way. Stu
dents from the Music Department fur
nished music. Tea was served by the 
commltteo in charge after the pro
gram. Mrs. Wm. ft. Work, Miss Fales, 
Mrs. F. I. Gaston and Miss Florence 
Bechtel, presided at tho tea table.
Numbered among the guests were 
Miss Eaton, head of a girl's school In 
Rome, Italy, and two of her Pitts
burgh friends, several members of tbe 
Womens Club of Carnegie, members 
of the faculty, and friends of the-As
sociation members.
Much credit is due the committee 
with Mrs. Alberta Redenbaugh as 
chairman, and Naomi Sloan, Dorothy 
lclnner, Helen Anderson Rush and 
Josephine McGilvray Schramm as 
aids for the delightful afternoon.
CONSTITUTION GIVES
COUNCIL NEW POWERS
What you dont know somebody 
else is getting paid for knowing.The 
Stude. .
(Continued from Page One) 
only by a similar election.
(b) The Margaret Morrison Carneg
ie College shall be represented by the 
president of the Senate, president of 
the Senior Class, a iSenior representa
tive, the treasurer of the Senate who 
shall be a Junior and who shall serve 
as a Senior representative the follow
ing year, the secretary of the Student 
Council, and three non-voting assist
ant secretaries.
(c) The College of Engineering 
shall bo represented by the president 
of tlio Senate, tho president of tho 
Senior Class, a Senior representative 
and troasurer of tho Senate, who shall 
bo a member of the Junior class and 
who shall serve as a Senior represen
tative tho following year.
(d) The College of Flno Arts shall 
bo represented by tlio president of tho 
Senate, tho president of tho Senior 
class, tho first vlco president of tho 
Somite, who shall bo a girl from the 
senior class, a senior representative 
and tho iStonato troasurer, who shall 
bo a member of tho Junior class and 
who shall servo as tho Senior repre
sentative the following yoar.
(o) The Collogo of Industries shall 
ho represented by tho president of tho 
AHBombly, tho prosldont of tlio Senior 
class, a Senior representative, and tho 
troasuror of tho Senate who shall bo 
a monibor of tho Junior class and who 
shall act as tho Sonlor representative 
tho following yoar.
(f) Tho roprosontatlvos from tho 
Mons and Women's1 Athletic Associa
tions shall bo oloctod from their in
dividual organizations at tho first 
mooting in tho spring of tlio new or
ganizations.
(g) A Night School representative 
shall bo elected at the discretion of 
tlio Nlglit School student body.
Section 3. Tho term .of office of all 
members shall be, unless otherwise 
noted, from the time of assuming of
fice in the spring until the new Coun
cil convenes and organizes in the fol
lowing spring. Exception to this is 
in the case of the four Junior repre
sentatives who hold over as members 
during the following year.
Section 4. In the event of a va
cancy, other than that of the office of 
president, the next ranking officer of 
that class or organization shall be
come a membjer immediately until 
that office in which the vacancy oc
curs is filled. The only exception shall 
be the Junior representatives, the sec
retary and treasurer, whose position 
shall be filled by another election.
Section 5. Junior Representatives, 
(a) The representatives of the Junior 
class shall be elected from the Junior 
classes of each college, by the mem
bers of that class. Each shall be
come automatically the treasurer of 
the Senate from the college in which 
he has been elected, and shall act as 
assistant treasurer on the Student 
Council during his Junior year with 
voting privileges, and shall also act 
as iS'onlor representative during the 
following year. I
(b) Tho throo assistant secretaries 
shall bo elected by the Student Assem
bly of tho Margarot Morrison Carnoglo College from a list of candi
dates prosonted by tlio Director of 
Margarot Morrison Carnoglo Collogo.
Article III.Publicity on 
Representation.
Soction 1.At tho time of nomina
tions for tho spring elections, repre
sentatives of tho Student Council 
shall appear before every organization 
olecting representatives to tho Stu
dent Council, in order to explain the 
functions and duties of the represen
tatives concerned.
Article IV.Organization of the 
Council.
Section 1.. Tho officers shall be a 
president, a Nice president, a secre
tary and a- treasurer.
Section 2. (a) The president shall 
be elected as specified in Article II, 
'Section 2a. He shall'attend the Stu
dent Council meetings after his elec
tion in co-operation with the retiring 
president and take office two weeks 
previous to Commencement Week.
(b) The vice president shall be 
elected from the members of the 
Council, at the first meeting of the 
new Council.
(c) The treasurer shall be elected 
at the last meeting of the old Council 
from the assistant treasurers of that 
year. In case a vacancy occurs In this 
office it shall be filled by election in 
the Council from the assistant treas
urers of the previous year.
(d) The Junior representatives au
tomatically become assistant treas
urers of the Council.
(e) The secretary shall be elected 
at the last meeting of the old Council 
from the assistant secretaries of that 
year. In case a vacancy occurs in this 
office it shall be filled by election in 
the Council from the assistant secre
taries of the previous year.
(f) The assistant secretaries shall 
be elected as specified in Article II, 
Section 5b.
Section 3. Duties of Officers, (a) 
The president shall preside at all 
meetings when present, shall have 
power to call special meetings with 
the authorization of the Executive 
Committee, shall preside at all duly 
authorized general assemblies of the 
entire student body, and shall per
form other duties usually associated 
with this office. He shall further pre
serve and be responsible for all rec
ords of the Council, until the new 
Council organizes in the spring. He 
shall further see that the first meet
ing of the new Council is held with 
all possible dispatch.
(b) It shall be the duty of the vice 
president to preside in the absence of 
tho president, and to keep so closely 
informed of the business of the Coun
cil as to preside efficiently when called 
upon. He shall also perform what
ever other duties may be usual to the 
office, or especially assigned thereto.
(c) The treasurer shall handle all 
funds for the Council. He shall be 
required to give a report of the status 
of every organization receiving allow
ance from the Student Council budget, 
when requested to do so by the Presi
dent of tho Council. I-ie shall make a 
monthly report at the Council meet
ing. 1-Ie shall have charge of the as
sistant treasurers and shall assign 
them to the various committees upon 
which they are to serve. He shall be 
bonded as the Student Council may 
demand expedient and sha^l receive a 
salary for his services, the amount to 
be decided by the Executive Commit
tee.
(d) The secretary shall be respon
sible for the files of the 'Student Coun
cil, shall have charge of the assist
ant secretaries, and shall assign them 
to the various committees upon which 
they are to serve. She shall keep the 
minutes and shall handle all corre
spondence. She shall receive a salary 
for.her services, the amount to be de
cided upon by the Executive Commit
tee.
(e) Graduate Manager. If at any 
time a Graduate Manager of non-atliletic activities is obtained he shall act 
under the direction of the Executive 
Committee. 1-Ie shnll have charge of 
various secretaries and treasurers. 
Managers of noh-athletlc organiza
tions shall co-operate with the Grad
uate Manager in their work. Ho shall 
chock up the work of tho various com
mittees of tho Student Council and 
bring such matters to tho attention 
of tho Executive Committee as he 
may think advisable.
Soction 4. Committees: (a) The
work of the Student Council shall be 
carried on by means of various com
mittees appointed by the president, 
These committees shall be known as 
follows: Committee on Organizations
operating on budgets; Committee on 
Organizations not operating on bud
gets; Financial Committee; Social 
Committee; Special Committee; Ad
visory Committee; Executive Com
mittee.
(1) Committee on Organizations 
operating on budgets allowed by the 
Council. Membership, 5 members 
Chairman, a member of the Council, 
2 members of the Council, 1 assistant 
treasurer, 1 assistant secretary.
(2) Committee on Organizations
not operating on budgets. Member
ship, 4 membersChairman, a mem
ber of the Council, 2 mem
bers of the Council, 1 assistant secre
tary.
(3) Financial CommitteeMembership, 7 membersDean of Men, Dean 
of Women, 4 assistant treasurers, 1 
assistant secretary, treasurer of the 
Council, chairman.
(4) Social Committee  Member
ship, 5 members. Chairman, a mem
ber of the Council, 2 members of the 
Council, 1 assistant treasurer, 1 as
sistant secretarjr.
(5) Special CommitteeMembership 
4 members. Chairman, a member of 
the Council, 2 members of the Coun
cil, 1 assistant secretary.
(6) Executive CommitteeMember
ship, 5 members. President of, the 
Council, 4 presidents of the Senates.
(7) Advisory) CommitteeMember
ship, S members. President of the In
stltuto (Advisory Member), president 
of tlio Student Council, chairman, 
Dean of Women, Dean of Men, 4 pres
idents of the iSonates.
For duties of committees, see by
laws.
Section 5. Meetings. Tho meet
ings shall bo hold whenever called by 
tho Executive Committee.
Section G. Quorum. A quorum shall 
consist of 15 voting members of tho 
Council.
Article V Powers of the Council.
Section 1. All action taken by this 
Council shnll be considered as actions 
of the Student Body, except as pro
vided in Article VIII.
Section 2. It shall be the duty of 
the Council to publish notice of all 
actions affecting the entire student 
body in the college paper immediately 
after such actions are taken.
Section 3. This Council shall have 
power to:
1. Have jurisdiction over all stu
dent activities and student organiza
tions in Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
2. Recommend to the administra
tion each year the amount of the ac
tivities fee, and to be responsible for 
its distribution and expenditure.
3. Authorize and supervise all 
drives for funds for special purposes.
4. Establish and perpetuate cus
toms and traditions.
5. Supervise Freshmen regula
tions.
G. Act on and decide all questions 
pertaining to the four colleges as a 
unit, which may arise in the future, 
subject however to the limitation of 
Article VIII.
7. Assume financial responsibility 
for the upkeep of the Union and auth
orize all student functions held there
in.
8. To approve charges made by the 
administration against the general 
breakage fee, for damages done to In
stitute property, as a result of inter
class activities.
9. Decide on questions of discip
line as submitted by the Faculty Dis
cipline Committee.
10. To have a voting member on 
the Institute Discipline Committee.
11. To control and supervise all 
non-athletic activities with power to 
take such action in regard to these 
activities as is not specified in this 
Constitution or in the By-laws.
12. Control all non-athletic func
tions of organizations in the colleges.
Article VIBy-Laws.
Section 1. The Council may pass 
such by-laws as it deems necessary by 
a favorable vote of fifteen (15) Coun
cil members.
Article VII.Initiative.
Section 1. A petition signed by one 
hundred (100) enrolled students shall 
be sufficient to require the Council to 
take a vote on any matter desired 
within three school weeks from , the 
time the petition is presented to the 
president.
Article VIIIReferendum.
Section 1. Any action taken by the 
Council shall be accepted by the Stu
dent Body with the following excep
tions:
A petition signed by three hundred 
(300) students shall make it neces
sary for the Council to submit the 
matter to a vote at the next General 
Assembly. A majority vote of the 
students present will be necessary to 
reverse the action of the Council. The 
restraining petition must be present
ed to the president within two school 
weeks from the time the student body 
receives notice of the action of the 
Council.
Article IXAmendments.
Section 1. This Constitution may 
be amended by a favorable vote of 
fifteen (15) members of the Council, 
together with a two-thirds vote of all 
tho students present at a general as
sembly, or in case of referendum by 
a three-fourths vote of the student 
body present at a general assembly.
Article X.Ratification.
Section 1. This Constitution shall 
be deemed ratified and go into effect 
immediately upon receiving a favor
able vote of a majority of the stu
dents of each of the four colleges at 
their separate assemblies.
(The By-laws will be published in 
the next issue of the Tartan.)
IPublic Sales
We have purchased 122,000 
pairs U. S. Army Munson last A 
shoes, sizes 5yz to 12, which y 
was the entire surplus stock of * 
one of the largest U. S. Govern- .j. 
ment shoe contractors. Y
This shoe is guaranteed one 
hundred per cent solid leather, * 
color dark tan, bellows tongue, * 
dirt and waterproof. The actual value of this shoe is $6.00. * 
Owing to this tremendous buy %. 
we can offer same to the publi. 
at $2.95.
Send correct size. Pay postman on delivery or send money Y 
order. If shoes are not as rep- X 
resented we will cheerfully re- *jfund your money promptly upon 
request.
National Bay State  
Shoe Company k
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
Students Special 
Offer
Every student is thinking of 
a new spring hat with that in
dividuality and collegiate ap
pearance, to make its wearer 
swell with pride.
We have the best makes at 
prices that any pocket book can 
afford. One of the largest se
lections in Pittsburgh in all 
shades and s'izes.
Any student presenting this 
weeks issue of the Tartan and 
his registration card we will al
low a ten per cent reduction on 
any spring hat purchased be
fore May 1st, 1923.
C. A. Heimert
Ever Foremost in New Ideas 
3614 Forbes St., Iroquois Block. 
In Pittsburgh since 1882.
GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. TO
AWARD NEW FELLOWSHIPS
(Continued From Page One) 
the best qualified to receive the 
award.
Applications must be filed with the 
committee by April 15, 1923, and
should be addressed to Dr. Frank B. 
Jewett, chairman, Charles A. Coffin, 
Fellowship and Research Committee, 
care of American Institute of Elec
trical Engineers, 33 West 39th street, 
New York, N. Y. The period allowed 
for filing applications has been neces
sarily brief as the Foundation has 
beon only recently established. Modi
fication in procedure may be made for 
future awards.
"Those awarded fellowships will be 
notified of tho fact by June 1."
Y. M. C. A. Officers to Be 
Feted By Y. W. Cabinet
Tuesday evening, April 10, the Y. 
W. cabinet will entertain the Y. M. 
cabinet in the M. M. Recreation Hall. 
The girls are making plans for a taffy 
pulling party and will need all the 
men there to assist in the pulling. The 
party will last three hours, beginning 
at 7:30 p. m.
This is along the line of closer co
operation begun at the party given 
by the deans a short while ago.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST.
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
 CAfhlmfent& 
I Skibo Inn 1
li!
I
Evter syerM oeal
WRKUY5
HeWliy do they call them clocks? 
I donit see any hands on them.
She(indignantly)No, and there 
arent supposed to be any hands on 
them.Poly Press.
StewedHoney B., Id like to see 
you part of a few minutes.
Lady ClerkSay, kid, what do you 
think I am, a puzzle for the little 
ones?Poly Press.
Riches, like bull, do no good until 
spread.Gold and Black.
Chew yonr food well, then use 
WRIGLEYS to aid digestion.
It also keeps the teeth clean, breath sweet, 
appetite keen.
The Great American 
Sweetmeat
X
*
Euvpaffer i syan& ^
Hats and Mens Furnishings ^
6100 PENN AVENUE
