VOTE FOR 
CAMPUS QUEEN 
THURSDAY
ARE YOU COMING? 
COLLEGIATELY SPEAKING 
SATURDAY, MAY 16
VOL. XIX No. 29CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1925
STUDENT BALLOT THURSDAY 
TO REDUCE FIFTEEN CAMPUS
QUEEN CANDIDATES TO THREE
To Cast Votes in All Schools 
at Noon to Determine 
Three Leaders
FINAL ELECTION
THURSDAY, MAY 7
One Week to Elapse Before 
Queen is Selected by 
Plurality Vote
Three finalists will b'e selected at 
primary number two, Thursday, the 
day after tomorrow, when all Car
negie will express its preference of 
the fifteen girls who were nominated 
two weeks ago for Campus Queen. 
This is the second step in the elec
tion of the reigning beauty of Cam
pus Week, which closes May 7, when 
the final ballots will be cast.
Only the victors of the first con
test are eligible for this voting, and 
it is from the ranks of these fifteen 
that our Queen will come. That this 
honored person may be carefully 
selected and judged by all, for each 
individual is a judge, this type of 
election has been used. The commit
tee desires that every person cast a 
ballot based on thought; the honor 
of the school requires that all its stu
dents vote, and vote honestly, and the 
type of election demands that atten
tion be given it. In Campus Week 
terminology this election is to Ballotly Speaking.
Fair election officials will be pro
vided, and stuffing the ballot box will 
be carefully guarded against. The 
ones from whom the Queen is to 
come are: Louise Boggess, Mary
Brown, Dorothy Diamond, Ellen Eyman, Elizabeth Kiefer. Elizabeth 
Lindsey, Margaret McFall, Grace 
Munhall, Bernice Rentz, Dorothy 
Schmallliorst, Lois Snyder, Mary 
Speers, Eva Spencer, Peg Taylor, and 
Anne Wittum.
With interest running high, the 
question to be answered, is, Who 
will be Campus Queen?
Now the important uncpi'tninty is 
one-third decided; Thursday, each 
student by voting will enable all to 
pass the second milestone, and on 
May 7, the race will be completed. 
Who will secure the great honor? 
Who is Carnegies fairest beauty? 
Who will receive the crown of joy 
at the fairly like, whimsical corona
tion at mid-night in the Woodland 
theater? It is these questions that 
will find an answer in the individual 
votes.
Pictures from which ideas and 
realizations may be had, appeared in 
last weeks Tartan and have been 
posted about the campus. Everyone 
is asked to follow the example and 
(Continued on Page Seven.)
* CLASS NOMINATIONS v
*; IN ALL SCHOOLS TODAY v
? Nominations of officers for the v 
-> coming year, for all classes, v
will be made at the class meet- *>
? ing in all schools, at 1:30 to- ? 
v day. The places of the meetings <
? will be posted on all of the v
? bulletin boards, and all students v 
v are requested to be present at ?>
? their own meetings. v 
*1* The purpose of this request v
? is to uncover all students who * 
v would make good officers, in? stead of the old practice of ten v
? or twelve interested students * 
v going to meeting and nominat- *2* 
*! ing one of the brothers, and see- v
? ing him elected because of lack *>
-I- of opposition. v
BRILLIANT AND MAGNIFICENT 
CAMPUS WEEK DECORATIONS 
TO DAZZLE EYES OF VISITORS
FRED SMITH 
Author
Y.W. CABINET!ASKS 
FOR GIRLSjOPINIONS
COUNTRY FAIR TO 
HAVE NEW STUNTS
OBIE NEWMAN 
Leadilng Man
DON GARDNER 
Author
Small Attendance at Meetings 
__May Result in  Local ^ 
Branch Disbanding
MEETING WEDNESDAY
Student Council To 
Elect Pres. To-Night
Will Elect Vice Pres., Treas. 
and Secretary also
| Does Carnegie Tech need a Y. W. 
C. A., or has it become a surplus 
activity on the Campus? Those who 
sit on the Y. W. cabinet are asking 
for a decision of this question from 
the women students of the college.
During the present school year it 
has been quite evident that Y. W. 
activities are regarded with indiffer
ence by a great percentage of its 
members. Whether this condition 
is another result of the heavy de
mand upon the students time or a 
failure on the part of the cabinet to 
accomplish the object which it has 
attempted remains to be proved. Over 
two hundred names are enrolled on 
the membership this year, but at the 
Wednesday noon meetings the aver
age attendance has not exceeded 
thirty. The meetings have been held 
in the Faculty Dining Room on the 
second floor of the Inn, to enable the 
girls to hear the speaker, while eat
ing their lunch. Other organizations 
have been asked not to sechedule 
meetings for that day. Thus previous 
engagements should not interfere 
with the attendance. Those who 
have come regularly to Y. W. have 
found the meetings to be unusually 
interesting, and have expressed this 
sentiment by returning each week. 
What is it then, that keeps the rest 
away?
The officers and cabinet members 
have given generously of their time 
to the planning and execution of the 
various associations functions,. But 
they feel they are giving in vain to 
a cause which is so little received. 
They feel also that they are justi
fied in asking for the support of the 
(Continued on Page Seven)
Another election for Student Coun
cil president for 1925:2G, will he held 
by the Student Council this evening.
At the two elections held by the 
Student Council last week, no one of 
the four candidates received a major
ity of the nineteen votes on the 
council, and consequently another 
election will be held this evening to 
determine the officers of the 1925-26 
Student Council.
The candidates for president, as 
voted on by the four colleges, were 
Barbara White of Margaret Morri
son; Dwight Beede of Industries; 
Lloyd Yoder of Arts; and Jack Har
ris of Science.
Yoder and Beede received the high
est number of votes but neither re
ceived a majority, of the nineteen 
votes. Hence these two candidates 
will be voted upon this evening.
The one receiving a majority vote 
of the nineteen voting members of 
the council will be elected president, 
and the one receiving the second 
highest number of votes on that bal
lot will be the vicepresident.
The candidates for treasurer, were 
the present assistant treasurers of 
the council: Edith Warren of Mar
garet Morrison, Red OConnor of 
Science, J. A. Raup of Arts, and 
Dwight Beede of Industries.
The candidates for secretary were 
the present assistant secretaries: 
Nora Willetts, Josephine Day, and 
Helen Pierson, all of Margaret Mor
rison.
CALL IS MADE FOR MALE
VOICES IN BACH CHORUS
Again a call is going out for male 
voices for the Bach Chorus under the 
direction of J. Yick OBrien, head of 
the Music Department. The chorus 
has been asked by Doctor Baker to 
sing at the Bacculaureate service, 
and "The Heavens Are Telling by 
Beethoven will be sung.
For this to be a success a large 
male section is needed, and any ten
ors or basses who wish to join this 
chorus should drop in to see Miss 
Seaman in room 160 in the College 
of Fine Arts.
Fraternities, Departments and 
Girls to Produce Acts 
and Exhibitions
BEASTS TO BE THERE
CLEF CLUB WILL HOLD 
DANCE IN UNION MAY 9
Fraternity and department stunts, 
dreadful, inspiring or hilarious as in
genuity directs; animals, instructive, 
novel, or absurd as nattire directs, 
and novelty tents, deceiving, alluring 
and pleasing as the girls dormitorities direct, will be the leading at
traction at the second annual Coun
try Fair, Saturday afternoon ol 
Campus Week.
Numerous fraternities have applied 
and registered their skits for the 
big Back to Nature event. The 
committee, however, are awaiting noti
fication from other houses, for all of 
them are to be represented. These 
offerings, amazing products of everfertile brains, as they are1, will be 
displayed to an appreciative public 
in white tents that will dot the Fair 
Grounds. The winner of the contest 
for the best productions will receive 
a reward that is worthy of the best 
efforts of all.
Re-animalizing of the cattle is be
ing done at a furious pace, although 
not too fast for the animals. The 
more perfect of natures creatures 
will be exhibited in their usual form, 
but other's that to the critical eye 
are lacking in industry or art must 
be revamped. This is a new field 
for education, and the results arc 
expected to prove the value to the 
future generations of both spectators 
and animals.
Pent up ideas that have long lin
gered in co-ed's minds will be put in
to action by the girls who last year 
proved themselves both clever and 
able. Realizing that only the shrewd
est will survive, no time is being lost 
by the contestants. The new namos 
recently given the soparate dormi(Continued on Page Six)
The committee for the May dance 
of the Carnegie Clef Club is pleased 
to announce that the popular Techsons Orchestra has' been engaged 
for the occasion. No better choice 
could have been made, as they have 
proven themselves to be top notch 
performers at many previous affairs 
on the campus and around the city.
As announced in the last issue of 
The Tartan, Carnegies great char
acter songster, the renowned Obie 
Newman will be on hand to please 
the dancers with some of the latest 
comic song hits. Obie is working 
very hard on the Campus Week mu
sical comedy at present, but he ex
pects to. be in excellent trim for 
the ninth day of May.
Plans are being made to make the 
Union a delightful bower of spring 
blossoms and flowers. This is a 
plan of decoration that has never 
been attempted in the dance hall 
before and the effect will be very 
be a place of delight to supersede the 
(Continued on Page Seven.)
Al Minetti in Charge of 
Campus Week Burlesque
The Burlesque Committee, an in
novation of last Campus Week, will 
function again this year with A1 Minetti in charge of the fun. Working 
with A1 will be Tiny Nesbit, last 
years pot-bellied cop, Pat Ryan,
also on last years committee, and 
four new namesBill Mamby, Obie 
Newman, Jimmy Dashbach, and
Jimmy Robertson, the pick of the 
campus burlesque artistsThese pseudo clowns will be pre
sent at every event during the three
days, burlesquing everything, and
special attention will be centered on 
the Country Fair, at which time the 
committee will spring the surprise of 
the week.
This years Burlesque Committee 
will enter a pushmobile in the sweep
stakes a3 last year and their veloci
pede will' be on display before the 
event. All students are acquainted 
with the antics of our head cheer
leader and his cohorts, and their ac
tivity, will contribute a necessary 
spice to the Sixth Campus Week.
Many Inquiries Indicate Record
Enrollment For Summer Session
Excellent Cast and Chorus of 
Thoroughbreds Assures 
Success
TO OPEN CAMPUS
SEAT SALE MAY 6
Plot Deals With Adventures 
of Plebe at Gay House 
Party
The Campus Week play, Collegiately 'Speaking, is in procoss of re
hearsal, may we say, at the prosent 
time. What we. are getting at is this. 
The cast is beginning to learn its 
line, pardon us, lines; the chorus is 
getting so that it can do its stops, 
and the singers aro practicing faith
fully to learn the difficult songs 
which they will be called upon to in
flict upon the audience.
One of the authors was hoard talk
ing in his sleop lately, and our re
porter who happened to he present 
was able to father somo idea as to 
the plot, although'xpomo of tho words 
thus gleaned muy have beon re
ferring to personal experloncos of 
this author.
Anyhow, the idea soems to bo this: 
The plot takes placo at a collcgo 
house party. The leading character 
is an unsophisticated frosliman 
(thats how VO knew it was a fairy 
tale), fho was thrown into the 
company of several girls at the abovo 
mentioned function. While his guar
dian angel, in the person of a Senior, 
is called away on shady business, 
tho freshman finds himself In tho 
embarrassing position of being host 
to two temperamental girls. Just 
how ho carrios off the double burden 
was not told us, duo to tho fact that 
the author awoke at tho untimely 
hour of ton-thirly, and had to rush 
to make his olglit-thlrty.
From what wo hoard, however, wo 
are hero to say that Colloglatoly 
Speaking Is more than a name. Its 
more like an adjectlvo. If youro not 
up In all of the latest college dirt, 
youll not bo able to understand it. 
We feel that its going to bo a real 
show and if tho cast can carry off 
its lines awake, as tho authors can 
(Continued on Page Three..)
Drama Dept. Presents 
Shakespearean Play
The Merry Wives of Wind
sor Pretentiously Staged
Preliminary inquiries from pros* 
pective students for the coming Sum
mer Session indicate that the enroll
ment for this year will probably be 
the largest since summer courses 
were first offered seven years ago. 
A conservative estimate places the 
expected enrollment at more 
600 by the end of June.
denced in former years In connec
tion with the courses which specialize in technical instruction for teach-1 are seniors,
On Thursday, April 23, in commem
oration of Shakespeares birthday, the 
Drama Department presented "The 
Merry Wives of Windsor, which 
was favorably received by the audi
ence. This is one of the most pre
tentious plays which has been given 
this season, and it is well worth see
ing.
In the spring of each year the 
Drama Department puts on -a Shake
spearean play. In choosing "The 
Merry Wives of Windsor, they "have 
selected one which will appeal great
ly to the popular taste. The drama 
students have been working hard on 
this play for several weeks past, and 
as a result have presented a produc
tion which is extremely pleasing to 
the spectators. Mr. B, Iden Payne of 
the Drama Department, who has so 
cleverly produced various Shake
spearean plays, is directing this pro
duction.
The casts have been chosen with 
a view to giving each student the op
portunity .of showing his best work. 
A number of the leading characters
ACTS CHOSEN FOR 
VAUDEVILLE SHOW
Eye and Ear Entertainment 
Features Years Campus 
Week Production
YODER IS CHAIRMAN
Lloyd Yoder, tho resourceful theat
rical manager, last woolc announced 
tho collection of stars and rhinestones 
who will glittor before tho organ pipes 
(concoalod, of courso) at tho Music 
Hall on tho morning of Thursday, 
May 14. Tho vaudovlllo is, as usual, 
short circuited this your, and tlioro 
will be a maximum of 0110 perform
ance. Those who onjoy a shock will 
bo prosent; tlioso who aro absent can 
assure tliomsolvos that they aro miss
ing moro than a current event.
Yoder had a lot of dlflloulty In get
ting lila unpaid omployos to make a 
socond appoaranco. Most of thom 
have been In hiding slnco lust Cam
pus Week. But on receipt of a lettor 
from Pinchot granting them all Immu
nity, they havo again coino forth and 
mny bo seen any day about the com
mons and grill, whoro thoy somotlmos 
oat.
Tho doughty manager, an Incorrigi
ble optimist, persists In tho bolloi' 
that tho performers aro going to mako 
tho spectators dlssatlsllod with tho 
Acadomy, tho Nixon and tho Chicago 
Grand Opora Company. A glance at 
tho llnoup tolls who's wrong.
Jack Gumbort, In tho prologuo, will 
break tho ice and, If sunk three timos, 
will stay down. Mis offorlng will bo 
a couple of Drab Ballads 011 tho Spirit 
of Good Cheor and Total Abstinence 
which ought to porvado Campus 
Week. Tho words by Bob Gundor aro 
sot to music from Pagllaccl. In spite 
of thoso handicaps Jack will probably 
got by, because lie has such a swoot 
voice. His costumo has not boon bor(Continued on Pago Six.)
Sophs Invite Plebes to 
Annual Smoker Friday
NON-BUDGET ORGANIZA
TIONS MUST REPORT
Tlvo following non-budget 
organizations have not sent 
in their constitutions or tho 
list of officers for tho year 
192-1-1925. Unless tho NonBudget Organization Commit
tee recoivos these by. Tues
day, May 5, 1925, wo will 
consider the organizations 
not sending thom in as 11011 
existent. Please send all in
formation to Josephine Day,
5052 Forbes street, Pitts
burgh, Pa.
Inter-Fraternity Basket 
Ball League.
Non-Degreo Association.
Disabled War Veterans.
Societies of Industrial En
gineers.
Alpha Kappa Epsilon.
Mortar Board.
Pi Delta Epsilon.
PI Sigma Tau.
Claymores.
SCrlbblors.
Cardom.
ARBORICULTURISTS 
REMAKE CAMPUS
2,874 Trees and Flowering 
Shrubs to Beautify Carne
gie in Years to Come
Electrical Committee Plans 
Beautiful Creation For 
Mach. Hall Tower
TO DECORATE IN
EXPOSITION STYLE
Gorgeous Arch at Morewood 
Avenue Will Welcome 
Campus Guests
HIDE MANY EYESORES
Tho work of planting tho myriad 
trees and shrubs that aro to garnish 
tho Campus Boautlful o'f tho future, 
was complotod liiHt woolt; burling 
ovor-onthuslastle class fights, Carnoglo should havo a campus to bo 
surpassed by none, and equalled by 
but few, within tho next fivo years, 
even If but fifty per cont of tho 
twonty-olglit hundred and sovontyfour pieces survive.
Tho plans for IniFU'ovomonts woro 
drawn- up only after vory careful 
study by l.lio school authorities, af
ter consideration of many color 
schemes, and with tho advlco and 
help of Pittsburgh's host landflcapo 
gardonors. Tho atmospheric condi
tions to bo oncountorod wore ana
lyzed thoroughly, and tho plants 
scdootod with thouo conditions In 
vlow.
A few details of tho work will no 
doubt 'provo Interesting. On tho 
main parallel linos of tho campus, 
Oriental Plano trees have boon plant
ed. In front of Arts building. Pin 
oaks, fairly largo troos which grow to 
an Inverted cone shape, stand behind 
tin Plano troos. When In leal., a 
striking color contrast will bo offeotod. Tho barronnoss of Langley Lab 
will bo com batted with many-colored 
honeysuckle, spliia, and barberry.
The rather drab carpenters shop 
behind Langley Lb will be hidden by 
doop banks of rod and white honey
suckle. Botwoon Margaret Morrison 
(Continued on Pago Seven.)
The annual Sophomore-Freahman 
smoker is dated this year for Fri
day, May 2, at oight p. m. in the 
Union.
All Freshmen are cordially invited 
to be tha guests of the Sophomores. 
Previous to the affair tags will be 
issued to the Plebes, probably by their 
own class officers. It is traditional 
that all Plebes should attend.
The Sophomore Industries orches
tra directed by Sid Forbes, harmony 
kings of the Soph class, are expected 
to furnish captivating music for the 
occasion.
L. P. Beebe, who for the past two 
years has spoken at the various class 
affairs, has some humorous trick up 
his sleeve. He will be presented to 
the Plebes at the smoker, and his 
breezy manner and his line, as long 
as the Commercial department, will 
no doubt be welcomed by the Plebes 
as they have been by the various 
other classes.
Tha smoker committee consisting 
of Mclnnes, Industries, Sheik, Arts, 
and Doty, Science, have promised an 
abundance of smokes and lots of fun.
KILTIE CONCERT IN 
TURTLE CREEK MAY 8
Tho Kiltlo Band Is still going at a 
fast rate of speed. On Sunday, April 
19, the Plaid skirted boys sallied 
forth to Konnywood Park where they 
deliverod an afternoon and evening 
concert.
May 1 tho boys will board the 
train for Bellalre, Ohio, where they 
will give an evening concert and try 
to convince tho Ohlolans that Carne
gie Tech not only turns out engineers 
but also musicians of much talent.
Again on May 8 the Kilties will 
make their appearance at Turtle 
Creek where they are scheduled for
A strange competition Is now in 
process of development on the Carne
gie Campus. Egged oil by the suc
cess of the landscape gardeners who 
have recently done such exceptional 
work in revamping our playgrounds, 
tho Campus Week decorations Com
mittee has vowed to outdo itself, the 
gardeners, and all past committees, 
and sot a one hundred proof stand
ard for all future committees to shoot 
at.
I11 general scheme, the embellish
ments will follow exposition style. 
Everything from Neros incendiary 
spectaclo to the last fair at Fredonia, 
Now York, has beon studied in an 
effort to procure original and appro
priate- offocts.
As a result of this diligence, pend
ing "Pop Bunnell's report of wind 
stresses on Machinery Hall tower, 
and given tho support of Pops disclplos In replacing a few pobblea 
looaenod for tho last class scrap, a 
structure will bo orectod on tho 
Campus Woek's mast-lioad to surpass 
I11 beauty and grandour anything 
horotoforo presented for tho porusal 
of Pittsburgh's millions.
Loss conspicuous than the nbovo, 
and thoreforo requiring moro atten
tion to mako it on outstanding fea
ture, will bo tho welcoming arcli at 
tho foot of tho cut.
It, will bo the crowning glory of all 
tho campus garnishments, tho exqui
site jewel of architecture and mosi 
stunning example of building Inge
nuity. Tho architects of tho magriificont structure havo all rocolvod 
more first modal In Beaux Arts com
petition than most people know ojoIstod, and tho decorations havo VTEF 
ronown for work 011 everything fVon* 
yellow sllckors to the loggias of 
palaces. The dazzling creation wilt 
burst upon tho view of tho beholder 
us lie approaches tho campus alonu 
Morewood avenue and will probably 
make him think ho Is rocelvlng a mor
tal vision of the Pearly Gatos.
Details aro not to bo dlscussod, but 
wo may oxpocf most anything so 
long as we do not allow our nilndii 
to bocomo too Poo-otlcal. Doan Tar(Continuod on Pago Sovon.)
Founders Day to be 
Observed Thursday
Attorney General and French 
Ambassador to Speak
Carnoglo Institute will lioia It uanual celebration of Founders Day on 
Thursday, April i!0, at 5:00 p. in., in 
tho Carnoglo Music Hall. The com
mittee In charge deem it a greuti 
ploasure aud honor that such prominont men as Attorney General John 
C. Sargent and the French Ambussalor, M. Emite Daeschner, will graco 
tho speakers table at this celobration.
John G. Sargent was born in Lud
low, Vt., October, 18G0. Ho received 
his A. B. at Tufts College, 1887, his 
a. m., in 1912. Being a proficient 
law student, ho was admitted to tho 
Vermont Bar in 1890. He was tho 
statos attorney for Windsor county 
of Vermont from 1898-1900. He is 
a member of the firm of Stickney, 
Sargent aud Skeek, American Bar
an evening concert. Thoro will also Association, Windsor'County Bar As. 
bo a rehearsal next Thursday even- soclatlon, Vermont History Societyinn* ortrT HlO TYlflTin r/ni- Tr.r,,,r.c,l t, t-Uni-ing and tho manager requests that 
all members be present.
Preparations are now being made 
for a banquet to be held in the near 
future. The officers are always on 
the jump aud when this school year 
ends the Institute can point with 
pride to the finest Kiltie Band in the 
history of the Institution, with more 
concerts played than ever known 
heretofore,
Campus Courier Subscriptions 
Selling Rapidly A mong Fraternities
ers of public school music, fine and 
applied arts, manual and Industrial 
arts, and psychology and education 
has led Carnegio authorities to prothan | diet that the teacher enrollment this 
year will break all former records.
The summer courses will be divid-1 As a result of this popularity among 
ed into two major groups, one includ- j the teachers, special attention is be
ing courses of eight weeks for under- | ing given to the development of the 
graduates, the other including cours- j teacher course facilities- To this end, 
es of six weeks for teachers. The | several guest instructors have been 
eight weeks courses will be given j appointed for the summer to suppler 
from June 15 to August 7, and the j ment the work in charge of the reteachers courses are scheduled from | gular faculty staff.
June 29 to August 7. j Of outstanding importance among
The growing popularity as evi-1 (Continued on Page Six.)
Included In the cast aro Ben Welnblatt, Harold Schaughoney, James 
Resley, Vorner Haldene, Harry Mervls, Herbert Polesle, Ellsworth Per
rin, William Dickey, Donald Marye, 
Maury Tuckerman, O. B. .Newman, 
Harold Minor, Mary Brown, Eliza
beth Lindsey, Janet Mill is, Della 
Lauffer, Elizabeth Sowersby, Mary 
Powers, Irene Hoslnsker, and a num
ber of others.
"The Merry Wives of Windsor 
will be given every night this week, 
including Friday and Saturday. Sat
urday night will be student night.
(Continued on Page Seven)
The 1925 Campus Courier, the three 
day dally newspaper which will re
cord all the events and happenings 
of the corning Campus Week, will 
bo Issued on Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday mornings, May 14,, 1: 
and 1C.
Subscriptions to tho Campus 
Courier are now being taken by the 
Courier circulation staff, headed by 
Art Bahr, who will havo plenty of 
assistants to help him. Lois Snyder 
has charge of girls' dormitory sub
scriptions and Hoot Gibson has 
charge of tho sales In the men's 
dormitories.
Each fralernT^s: is being solicited 
as a group and several of the fraternltles havo already turned In or
ders for subscriptions for their en
tire membership.
The cost of a throc-day subscript 
tlon Is fifteen cents, delivered each 
morning at 7 a. m to tho subscrib
er's door.
The editorial staff has mado a rad
ical deviation from the policy of tho 
1924 Campus Week paper and has, In 
accordance with this change, decided 
to make tho Campus Courier a real 
newspaper. Tho Courier will con
tain an accurate story of each of 
the events of the morning, afternoon 
and evening preceding the morning 
issue, and will also havo an authen
tic preliminary story on each of the 
events.
and Zeta PsI (Kappa chapter.) Ho 
was. recently appointed to the office 
of Attorney General, succeeding Harlen F. Stone.
It will indeed be a great oppor
tunity and treat to be present at such 
a gathering, more especially when tho 
prominent French. Ambassador M. 
Emile Daeschner, will be present. In
vitations and tickets will bo mailed 
to members of the faculty. Addi
tional tickets may be secured at the 
off leo of President Church, Carnegio 
Institute.
SIX ARCHITECTS PLACE
HIGH IN COMPETITIONS
Six students of architecture won 
honors In two competitions conduct
ed by tho Beaux Arts Institute ot Doslgn In Now York.
Fred Boldiy won a first mention 
placed, Elmer Love, JOlrnor B. Mlllogan and Alfred G. Wingold won Ural 
mentions In tho Junior problem r 
tho doslgn of a "College Administra
tion Building."
Bronson B. Luty won tho lilghosfc 
award, a first mention placed in tho 
sophomore problem, and Leon Noofo 
won a first mention in the same com
petition, the design for "An Entrance 
to a Small City flail." Firts mention 
placed is the highest award given and 
first mention is the next highest.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1925
GET YOUR WRECK RAMBLIN BACK TO TECH
! Thats That jPublished every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie institut of j
nlm/ilMifir Iin/I/If * 11 ft (111 nnt*u 111 IffI fflirldTlI lliillTH'll I '
Entered In thePostonico ol' Pittsburgh as second-ci assmatter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
W. D. ROSSINI
AS80CIATE EDITORS
A. E. KROOHR. C. FRAZIER
L. H. Harris 
EDITORIAL STAFF
A. F. Carson R, II. SltzlerD. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR
NEWS EDITORS
. Franklin 5547-.I
J. M. GOSS............
ALUMNI EDITOR
REPORTERS
R. L Lepper, M. Hollitiflhead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadgo, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. Roas, H. L. Myers, L. V. Twohlg, F. Finn, 
F. A. Kolb, A. V. Nern, A. Wlngold, L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nufctall, W. Kimfuel, R. M. Pew, F. 0. Woods, C. Neu, C. HorLung._______
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF .....................................................................................Schenley 286
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Da
vidson, B. Krlstof, .T. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. OIBSON..................
. C. WESER, Assistant.
................Schenley 9211
................Schenley 9122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE H. CARL.............................................................................Schenley 0393-M
CIRCULATION MANAGER
B. MOSKOVITZ .....................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. 
Strlzak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, H. Kandell, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Moore, It. L Grlbble, Qladyn Reynolds, W. A. Bernardi.________
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up. ______________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All news Items must be In the student 
post oflice before 4:30 Thursday._________________________________________________
1:20.
Tartan OlllceRoom 12, Industries Building. Office hoursDally 12:30-
CAMPUS WEEK
Campus Week will officially begin exactly two weeks and two 
days from today. This may be taken as a gentle reminder that there 
is just that much time left. for the completion of all the work neces
sary. Remember that your lielp will be appreciated.
Just before Campus Week starts, the committee will doubtless 
issue a series oil recommendations relative to letting dutsiders in at 
the functions, the liquor question, and so on. The idea behind such 
recommendations will be to insure the continuation of Campus 
Week in the future. Those problems are very real, and form a basis 
for the arguments of some people that Campus Week should be dis
continued.
It is with the idea ol! impressing upon the tsudents that such 
recommendations should be rigorously observed that we write. In a 
way it is up to each student to see to it that he does nothing which 
might go towards furnishing a further argument against this insti
tution 'm which Carnegie Tech has been a pioneer. Let us be Careful 
to uphold the committee in every suggestion along this line which 1 
makes, and thus insure, that Carnegie will have its Campus Week 
for many years to come.
SOME OF OUR STUDENTS
It has been enlled to our attention that several students have 
had articles stolen from the lockers in the gym lately. One boy in 
particular has lost, a fifteen dollar tennis racket and a varsity sweater 
within the last t wo weeks.
This is n deplorable situation. There is little point in writing 
about it, for any students who would do such a thing certainly would 
pay no attention to anything which might appear in this column.
It; is such a petty thing to do. We can sympathize with a man 
who will steal when lie is in want. But; why any man should steal 
anything I'rom some other student, who, perhaps is in more straitened 
eirciimstanc.es tlinn he himself can only be explained on the grounds 
that lie is mighty small. 8'ue.li a man, if ho were known, would cer
tainly be ostracised by those who knew him. If he is not known, end 
if he has not enough conscience to fool that he is doing something 
which is about atj contemptable a. deed as is possible r* do there is 
nothing to say.
We only hope that ho will get; over such tendencies before lie 
graduates.
Once more 
the school' year, and 
band. But; the work I
THE BAND
to eulogize the baud. It is near the end of
consequently the end ol! the activities of the
they have done this year meri'.s more than pass
ing mention. The band has been on hand at all occasions where it; 
has been wanted, and will wind up one of its most successful seasons 
with the work for Campus Week.
The trip through the east during the Easter .vacation was one 
continuous round of good advertisement for Carnegie Tech. With 
the exception of the football games, more people were present to 
hear the band than for any other branch of Carnegie activity.
The Carnegie Tartan wishes to extend its hea.rticst congratula
tions to the band and its officers. It has established a record of 
achievement and hard work for Carnegie Tech during the past year
which will serve as a standard for several years to come.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, APRIL 2S
Track MeetVarsity vs. Plebes................................4:00 P. M., Bowl
HMerry Wives of Windsor...........................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29
BaseballPlebes vs. Indiana.............................................. At Indiana
Merry Wives of Windsor............ ..............8:15 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, APRIL 30
Chapel..........................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
BaseballJuniata....................................... .........-...... At Huntingdon
Founder's Day Exercises....................................3 :tit) P. M.. Music Hall
Merry Wives of Windsor "...........................S:15 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, MAY 1
BaseballBucknell ............................................................ At Bucknell
TennisVarsity vs. W. & J.................. ..........................At Washington
Plebes vs. Wilkinsburg....................................2:30 P. M., Here
SATURDAY, MAY 2
Baseball- Penn State.....................................................\t State College
Tennis Plebes vs. Rayen High.......................................At Youngstown
Track Meet- Allegheny................................................2:00 P. M.. Bowl
Plebes.vs. Shadyside.....................................At Shadyside
Chemical Engineers * Theater Party..............8:15 P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, MAY t>
TennisNotre Dame.....................................................2:30 P. M\, Hero
THURSDAY, MAY 7
Chapel.............................................................12:50 P. M.. Little Theater
TenhisPlebes vs. Grafton High................................2:30 P. M., Here
FRIDAY, MAY 8
BaseballPenn State........................................3:00 P. M., Forbes Field
TennisPenn State.......................................................2:30 P. M., Here
SATURDAY, MAY 9
Interseholastie Track Meet............-...........................10:00 A. M., Bowl
TrackVarsity vs. Geneva...........................................2:00 P. M.. Bowl
Plebes vs. Indiana Normal.......................................At Indiana
BaseballVarsity vs. Grove City....................................At Grove City
Plebes vs. Bellefonte Academy.........................At Bellefonte
TennisPlebes vs. Westmont High...................................At Johnstown
Clef Club Dance.........................................................9 :00 P. M., Union
One of the most universal, and yet j 
most fallacious beliefs of people to- i 
day Is that no man can ever under
stand a woman. How this idea ever | 
originated and became so generally ' 
accepted Is beyond the comprehon- j 
slon of this writer. We suppose that j 
it was first voiced by some man who , 
had Just been dropped by his beloved j 
when he thought that the marriage ! 
was about to be consumatud; where
upon, without realizing the misfor-1 
tune which he had so narrowly es
caped, he sadly remarked that the I 
workings of the female mind were beyond understanding. Others said the j 
same thing, and under the careful j 
nurturing of the women themselves I 
It has become nearly as fundamental | 
to our conception of our relations 
with the other sex as has that even I 
more untrue, phrase The woman al- j 
ways pays."
Naturally the women eagerly fos
tered this idea which' the men have 
wished upon themselves, for there is 
nothing so intriguing; to anyone as 
that which he does not understand; 
and from interest to sympathy, and j 
from sympathy to love, is a process 
so logical that its actual working out | 
would be ludicrous if it were not so i 
pathetic.
Furthermore, any man who would j 
dare insinuate that the ' statement
were not true, and that he could
understand the creature of Impuls
es would be looked upon by men as 
a conceited liar, and by the women 
as a smart alec. All of which natur
ally works against any level-headed 
young man even hinting that woman 
is no such animated sphynx as we 
would be led to believe.
Let us, for a moment, consider the 
statement no one can ever under
stand a woman In the light of logic 
and see whether or not It can be jus
tified.
In' the first* place, the statement
that a person cannot understand a
thing means that the understanding 
of that thing is beyond the bounds 
of Ills intelligence; that is, he hasnt 
enough brains. Now since we never 
hear the statement that a girl can 
j never understand a man. indeed, 
quite the contrary is maintained by 
the girls themselves, we may safely 
conclude that girls can understand 
men. According to that, the intelli
gence of a womah so far surpasses 
that of the mere man that there is 
no comparison. May we not, as the 
modern girl passes us, with her short 
skirts, bobbed lialr, rolled stockings, 
and cricket sweater, nudge ourselves 
and whisper, Behold, the brains, of 
the Race?1 And at the same time 
we wonder why it is that she giggles 
In such a silly manner, and struts 
a little more haughtily at the thought 
that we nit wits are looking at her!
Doos any man. or girl either for 
that matter, really believe that girls 
are so far superior mentally to men? 
What: rehson have we to believe 
that: one specimen of the human race, 
merely because its hair Is a little 
thicker, Its stockings are longer, and 
its sense of humor is shorterthan 
that of another member of the same 
race; has boon gifted by brains so 
far superior In quality. If not In quan
tity? And why should wo? Results 
do not prove It. Have women made 
any such wonderful advances in their 
business of life as men have in theirs? 
While m,on have Improved in count
less ways their modes of living, and 
have found so many now ways of 
providing more comfort, to tliomselves and their families, we find that 
women are still capturing their hus
bands by the samo old, moss-grown, 
wiles and cranks which wore used 
back In the days 'of ancient Egypt; 
and we imagine that If the truth were 
known. Eve probably Interested 
Adam by dropping a handkerchief, or 
asking him to tie her shoe. And 
probably, when she tearfully admit
ted that the only reason she was 
marrying him was because he was 
the last man on earth, he muttered 
to himself, as he masterfully drew 
her close to his manly chest, I cant 
understand this woman'.
But, some girls will say. there 
must be some bnsis for truth to it, or 
it would never have become so uni
versally accepted. We grant that 
there is a basis to the saying, but it 
arises from a misconception on the 
part of the men rather than from 
any feeble-mindedness. It arises 
from forgetfulness rather than ignor
ance.
The answer to the riddle is simple. 
Man, in his conceit tells the girl of 
his heart everything which has ever 
happened to him during the course 
of his life; what lie is doing at the 
present; and all his plans for the fu
ture. Hence anything he does, the 
girl can find a reason for. because 
does she not know everything he 
thinks? The girls on the other hand 
keep their mouths shut about their 
ideas, talking a sort of high sounding 
nonsense which passes, with the 
love-sick man, as a brand of celestial 
intelligence; and in reality is a mere 
shallow nothingness which gives no 
clue to her real thoughts, and is of
ten entirely disconnected from her 
true ideas. Hence, when she does a 
thing, the man, not having the samo 
background of facts about her which 
she doos of him, cannot just seo how 
she tcets that way, and passes it off 
as the nature of the boast which ho 
can never hope to understand.
What passes as a superior mental
ity resolves itself into tho moro abil
ity to keep one's own council. And 
we men may as well, acknowledge It 
as an accomplishment. We don't do 
It.
And yet, is It entirely true?
A person may say nothing through 
a sense of superiority to the general 
run of conversation, or perhaps, they 
can think of nothing worth while say
ing.
And that's that.
A Qualification
The snaps of life are generally ac
quired by people who have plenty of 
ginger.
RULES AND REGULATIONS
OF THE INTER-FRATERNITY SWEEPSTAKES
1All fraternities who are members of the Inter-fraternity Council are elegibie for competition.
2Entries must be posted with the Chairman of the Sweepstakes Committee before 8:00 P. M. May
12, 1925, B. J. KriBtof at 4807 Baum Boulevard.
3The race will start promptly at 9:30 A. M., May 15, 1925. All cars MUST be on the speedway 
at 9:00 oclock A. M. in order to be eligible to compete.
4A team shall consist of five men, one driver and four pushers, whose names shall be in the hands of
the Chairman by 3:00 P. M. May 12.
5All men who have earned a major Varsity Letter are ineligible to compete in the Sweepstakes.
6Only ohe man may push at any one time, and pushers must be changed at points which will be
definitely marked on the day of the race.
7The course of the race shall be as follows: Start in front of Margaret Morrison Building, up
Tech Street to Boulevard, turn to right down Boulevard to Schenley Bridge, turn to right up In
dustries Hill and continue along Woodlawn Avenue, finishing in front of Margaret Morrison Building.
3Approximately, the points where the pushers shall change are: At the top of Tech Street, at en
trance to Machinery Hall, and two-thirds of the way to the top of Industries Hill.
9Each car must weigh at least sixty (60) pounds, and must have four wheels. It must be so con
structed that no parts shall be demountable. The car must enter and finish the race in the same
condition in which it entered competed for design. There shall be no motive power other than that
of the pusher. No freaks will be considered.
10All spectators must keep off the track. The committee reserves the right to disqualify any entry
whose members interfere with the race in any way whatsoever.
11Silver trophies will be awarded. One for the winner of the race and one for the winner of the
design.
12There shall be a first and second choice made for design. In the event that the car Winning the. 
first place in design also wins the race, the cup for design shall go to the second choice, and shall 
have inscribed upon it Second place for Design. To the car winning the race in this case would 
go the speed trophy which would have inscribed upon it in addition First place for Design."
13Failure to comply with any one of these rules automatically disqualifies the entry.
l+^-There shall be three Judges, and three Timers who shall be chosen from the Faculty.
B. J. KRISTOF.
Chairman Sweepstakes Committee.
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
1.' Uproad Threatens in Balkans.
2. Dawes Rer.ews Battle With Sen
ate.
3. Von Hindenburg or Marx?
ua -0 LETTE0 B-X
L
To the Editor of the Tartan:
The writer read with interest the 
recent Philllpic against femeninity 
under the heading of "Thats That, 
and cannot help but wonder what in
duced its originator to voice such rad 
cal sentiments. It would be simple 
to assume that his love has been un
requited and that lie Is thus attempt
ing to alleviate the consequent smart 
of- an injured vanity, 'were it not for 
the sincerity with which he adheres 
to Ills original statements.
The columnists remarks have all 
the earmarks of the cynical youth of 
the day. Is it actually possible that 
the modern girl means no more to 
him than his statements imply? To 
sriy that a girl is a very interesting 
plaything Is true, arid if, by talking 
nonsense she can make a man forget 
his troubles, she is indeed an asset 
Lo humanity; but nead we place these 
limitations upon a girl's capacity?
The modern girl is far from perfect 
Indeed, what in nature is not? But 
to state that a man cannot work with 
a girl he likes is an unfortunate gen
eralization. On this assumption, the 
male of every successful married couplo must live the life of a magnificent 
self-sacrificing martyr, humbly plac
ing his love at the feet of her whom 
ho has chosen as his wife, confining 
all Ills troubles and worries in his 
torn breast, and convincing her, by 
most noble pretense, that she is his 
greatest partner and the helpmate to 
whom ho owes all.
Obviously such a theory is most 
fantastic. Who can but start to enu
merate the men who owe their sue
not hide-bound by convention as was 
the damsel of a generation ago. She 
Is much more fully aware of her re
sponsibilities, and decidedly alert in 
exercising her womanly faculties. If 
her intuition remain as keen as that 
of her progenitor, it will be she who 
will bring mankind to unsuspected 
heights.
These, of course, are merely opin
ions, but the writer is confident that 
they will find a sympathetic audience.
Frankly yours,
ABILENE.
| The Chatter Box \
April 23, 1925.
Dear Editor:
While the twins last week com
plained to you that they read the col
umn by Thats That with indigna
tion, permit me to say that I read 
this column with genuine amusement.
Of course he is perfectly right in 
stating that a man cant work in 
company-with the girl lie likes; eith
er she has to be enough of a machine 
that she doesnt bother him, or else 
shes a nuisance. The dumber a 
girl is, the more a man appreciates 
her. I know this from experience, 
for I at one time volunteered to help 
make costumes for a show spQnsored 
by the stars of the Dramatic Depart
ment, and had to work under the 
instructions of a very good man 
dressmaker. To save my life I 
couldnt drape a hat after being 
shown just how it should be done, 
and, after trying many times to ac
complish this feat, but -without suc
cess, I tearfully admitted my ineffic
iency,. Whereupon this modiste pityingly planted a kiss upon my most 
ess in life to a sympathetic, capable I u worthy cheek, and painstakingly
or ambitious wife? The writer cannot 
give names in support of his belief, 
sinco such Inspiration is usually un
asked and rarely acknowledged. Not 
even a confirmed addict of the Ameri
can Magazine Is likely to remember a 
single instance where any reason 
other than that of plugging thirty-six 
hours a day or selling old newspapers 
at the age of seven, made Horatio 
Brown the renowned laundry owner 
and eminent Rotarian he is today. His 
wife may be depicted watering her 
camelias, but even such a concession 
is unusual.
But why this reticence? Why, in 
heavens name, should a man work 
eight hours a day and display any 
reasonable amount of iniative if he 
have no further incentive than that 
of holding body and soul together? 
The cup of glory is empty if there be 
none to share it. What is fame if 
none hut fellowmen admire it? We 
all strive for the admiration of wom
an and if being the cause of mans 
struggle for a higher place in the 
cosmos does not make woman a true 
co-partner, then co-operation is non
existent.
Furthermore, the girl of today is
helped me finish the hat. Ever since 
then Ive had the most sincere re
spect and admiration for the super
iority of this young man, and Im 
sure he appreciated me. because I was 
so dumb, and admitted it.
No woman should have brains, and 
if she does happen to have the faint
est symptoms of them, she should 
most certainly conceal them; shes 
liable to be an intellectual old maid if 
she doesnt. The girls of Carnegie 
Tech owe the young man who so 
courageously and honestly revealed 
their true status in the eyes of men, 
an everlasting debt of gratitude for 
his magnaminity. An so, as a token 
of our undying reverence and affec
tion. we bestow upon him this beau
tiful liand-painted crepe de chine lov
ing cup, and thats that.
CAY BELLE.
Fish Is Fast Traveler
The sailfish, a gigantic fish that in
habits gulf waters, can travel at a 
rate of 60 miles an hour, and with the 
use. of Its great black fin that acts as 
a sail, can leap 40 feet through thf 
atr upon rising from the water. It Is 
the fleetest fish known.
Not one of the best sellers of 
the season, not by any means one of 
the most popular novels of the year, 
is Donn Byrnes, Blind Raftery, but, 
in my opinion, it can claim a higher 
distinction than these two character
izationsthat of being one of the 
best written books that has been pub
lished in many a day. Donn Byrne 
has all the fire and intenseness of a 
true Irishman, and to wit', the soul 
of a poet, that makes his prose run 
along rythmnically in almost perfect 
blank verse.
The story itself is a simple one. 
Patrick Rafferty, a bliud poet, 
throughout the land, honored by 
noblemen, beloved by peasants, wan
ders over Ireland, thrilling the re
sponsive Irish masses with his spir
ited, naive songs. In all the world 
he had but one enemy, the Welsh
man of Claregalway, whose pride he 
once insulted by composing a derisive 
little poem about him. The Welsh
man has a beautiful ward, Hilaria, 
with whom Rafferty, super-sensitive, 
through his blindness, to all things 
rare and delicate, falls .in love. When 
the Welshman comes to him, and un
der the pretense of friendship, offers 
him the hand of his ward, Rafferty 
seizes the opportunity; although he is 
very much mystified by the mans 
sudden change of heart.
But after his marriage, Rafferty 
senses a change in his audiences. 
Where formerly he had been receiv
ed enthusiastically, lie was now wel
comed with restraint. Where for
merly he had been openly sought af
ter by the noblemen, he was now di
rectly avoided. But Hilaria holds the 
key to the situation and explains it 
to him. She tells him that the Irish 
people are as loyal to him as ever 
but they find it difficult to accept 
as his wife a woman, whom the 
Welshman of Claregalway lias boast
ed throughout. the country as being 
his possession. But Rafferty would 
have none of her apologies. Listen. 
Hilaria, he said, I have, at one 
time or another, stood a great deal 
from the Irish nation, and now the 
Irish nation will have to stand some
thing from me.
ySooii after this conversation, the 
news comes that old Ireland is free, 
and that the Prince ORourke is com
ing home from Portugal. And Raf
ferty aroused by patriotism, composes 
a song in honor of the occasion that 
proves to be his masterpiece- But 
when he is summoned to the Court, 
he refuses to go unless Hilaria be 
presented with him. After a tense 
moment in the court room, the 
Prince himself kneels at Hilarias 
feet, and Blind Rafferty's glory 
complete.
Blind Rafferty, you will find re
freshing from the average run of sen
sational novel. You can't afford to 
miss it.
E. M. W.
Strict censorship has prevented 
the general public from getting any 
great amount of news of the recent 
uprising in Bulgaria, which almost 
amounts to a civil war; but what lit
tle has leaked out portents serious 
consequences to the general peace 
in the Balkans.
Affairs came to a head with a 
series of tragedies in the past week, 
when on Tuesday King Boris, return
ing from hunting, was attacked, and 
two members of his party were 
killed. The same evening General 
Georghieff, president of the govern
mental majority was killed; the next 
day two members of the House of 
Deputies were assassinated; and on 
Thursday in the Sueti Krai Cathe
dral, during the funeral of General 
Georkhieff, an explosion occurred 
killing one hundred arid sixty, and. 
wounding a score more, many of 
them high governmental officials. 
The city was placed under martial 
law, the civil courts wrere abolished, 
and the army reigns supreme. King 
Boris himself is virtually a prisoner 
in his own castle, because an alter
cation against army officials.
The trouble goes back to 1923 to 
the overthrow of the Agrarian gov
ernment under Stambulisky, and the 
rise to power of Tsankoff. Stambuiisky, in fleeing with a number of his 
followers, was . assassinated; his 
friends escaped and have since been 
plotting against the government. 
They have linked forces with the 
communists, who seem to be back of 
this movement. Much as we dislike 
to tag every new uprising as Bol
shevistic, so many incriminating doc
uments have been intercepted tkr't 
the only conslusion that may be 
drawn points to Soviet interference.
In order to cope with the situa
tion, Bulgaria petitioned the Council 
of Ambassadors for an increase of 
twenty thousand men in the army. 
This request was granted.
Many rumors point to Jugo-Slavia
> a party to the trouble. It is 
known that the Agrarian party favored union with this country, and 
no doubt any rife in national forces 
would be fostered by Jugo-Slavia as 
a possible strengthening of the gen
eral Pan-Slavic movement.
All possible military measures 
have /been taken in an attempt to 
curb the present uprising:; but be
cause of the size of the agrarian 
population, and the general spirit of 
discontent with present conditions, 
there is grave doubt of the govern
ments ability to stem the tide.
# # #
With the ruthless persistence and 
energy characteristic of the Amer
ican business man, Vice President 
Dawes continues his attempt to re
form the Senate, much against the 
will of many of its members.
At the recent celebration of the 
one hundredth anniversary of the 
battles of Lexington and Concord, 
Mr. Dawes on three occasions shoved 
history into the background, renew
ed his attack on our august body of 
legislators, and declared himself pre
pared for a four year battle.
At Boston Mr. Dawes asked the 
question, Did our forefathers have 
in mind when they framed the con
stitution, the lodging with any one 
of the ninety-six senators of a pow
er greater than the veto power ol' 
the President of the United States, 
this power to block all legislation by 
one means or another? And in hi3 
New York address, he declared that, 
I myself am charged with the duty 
of calling attention to * methods of 
parliamentary procedure in the rela
tion to the national interest.
Mr. Dawes is in the right, and 
will no doubt be backed by the peo
ple. The Senate rules do need re
vising, but it sees to be a question 
as to whether Mr. Dawes is using 
the most advisable methods for at
taining these ends. To be sure, he 
is gaining a hold on public opinion 
by his cryptic remarks, but this same 
public opinion acts but slowly in the 
senate chamber. It seems probable 
that he could have accomplished 
much more by working from within, 
than by use of his present irritative 
measures, which are only uniting the 
Senate more solidly against him.
*  *
Marx and Loans, Hindenburg and 
(Continued on Page Six.)
exjrimirioi
of
Q0 T Jf  S ,
HATS -- HABERDASHERY 
SHOES
IFWCTfliY
At
Wm. Penn Hotel 
Tomorrow and 
Friday 
Jim Boyle, Rep.
Fifth Avenue at 46th St. 
NEW YORK

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTAN-A/PAGE THREE
LETS REACH THE PEAK FOR CAMPUS WEEK
This Years Sweep- Stakes to Exclude All Letter Men
Nineteen Fraternities to Take 
Part in Feature of Second 
Morning; Two Silver Cups 
to be Awarded
COURSE REMAINS SAME
With all letter men ineligible to com
pete, demountable parts prohibited, 
and the time set for Friday morning 
of Campus Week, the Interfraternity 
Sweepstakes is ready for the final 
gong. Over a course that will test 
the qualities of both cars and push
ers, the autos whose construction is 
now tne big object of every frater
nity, will travel in record time.
In former years only (track and 
cross country letter men were barred, 
but this year all men who have earn
ed a' varsity letter in any sport are 
"unable to compete. This was recent
ly decided as an innovation to make 
the race as fair as possible, and while 
it may affect one fraternity more 
than another the result is expected to 
be beneficial in the long run.
Cars designed for the beauty 
trophy will be a thing of the past, 
for each car must race as entered. 
Two silver cups' are to be awarded 
in the speedway tournament, one 
based on design, the other for the 
winner of the running. A first and a 
second will be chosen for design so 
that in case the fraternity with the 
most beautiful car should win the 
race, the design cup could then be 
awarded the second place entrant.
The course carefully chartered and 
measured, so that in case any re
cords are broken they will be official, 
has been laid out starting at Mar
garet Morrison, up Tech street, 
through the Park, past Industries and 
finish at the starting point. Points 
are designated at w'Tiich the pushers 
four in number are to change. Devi
ous and dangerous as is the. track, 
strong and beautiful as are the autos 
all will be but ruled by the iron nerv
ed driver as he guides his speeding 
car.
All entrants, who must be members 
of the interfraternity council, will 
register 'with the Chairman, B. J. 
Kristof, and be on hand at nine 
oclock for the great renewal of the 
Campus Week- DeTby.
Course of 6 C. W. Sweepstakes
RVCCEAMEPUSR QTNHMC
Machinery Hol I
Desiq' School
I
MoKjarct
Horriiori
O Dc-rio-Vci poin+sWiKich puher cKo
Interment of Old Man P.R. Draws 
Nigh as Qualifications Approaches
Engage Popular Orchestras For Sixth Mardi Gras
An Aid to Migration
Collegiate Imps and Steel City 
Collegians to Play in Union 
and GymSounding Board 
to Improve Acoustics
PLAN GAY COSTUMES
LAST MEETING OF A. I. E. E.
The last regular meeting of the 
year of the A. I. E. E. will be held 
on Tuesday, April 28, 1925, at 7:30 
p. m. in room 11. Machinery hall.
Mr. S. Q. Hayes of the Publicity 
Department of the Westinghouse 
Mfg. Company, will present a techni
cal paper on New Development of 
Japanese Power systems. The 
paper will be supplemented by mov
ing pictures.
Nominations for officers for next 
year wITl be held.
This meeting is very important and 
all Electricals are urged to attend.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, .Near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and IVlorewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister 
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M. 
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
The opening day of Campus Week 
will be marked with solemn and im
pressive ceremonies attendant upon 
the interment of that much hated and 
feared old man, Plebe Regulations. 
His life has been spirited and per
haps fitful since the beginning of 
school but his burial will be calm, 
dignified and hypocritical.
The procession accompanying the 
casket to the grave bespotted ceme
tery, will be composed of Plebes, as 
the mourners, theoretically speaking. 
After paying their last respects in 
the form of caps and arm bands, the 
Freshies will be welded into the ever 
lengthening chain of Carnegie stu
dents.
At One oclock, the parade will 
form. Pall-bearers in hooded gar
ments and displaying great affectation 
will head the march to the grave. At 
the heels of the corpse will follow 
the co-eds resplendent In ghostly 
white garments. The procession will 
be completed by the male students, 
until this hour, lowly Plebes. With 
the formation arranged, solemn dirges will rent the air and the meander 
of death is begun with a sombre robed 
clergyman as peace-maker.
And so in undulating motion the 
sorrowful procession wends its way 
oer the many scenes of battles, 
marred with scars of more recent 
combats. But the attitude of the 
marchers remains calm and  sorrow
ful. Perhaps the line of march will 
cause memories of conflicts, but 
these will be thoughts merely, mem
ories that pass swiftly, as th grave 
is approached.
Comes the moment when the pro
cession is stopped. Sfedly they group 
around the hole in the earth where 
the remains of an iron willed master 
are to be deposited. The casket is 
dropped into the rough-box and the 
minister delivers his sepulchural ora
tion depicting the hectic life of the 
Old Man. He has concluded and the 
erstwhile Plebes file by the open 
grave, casting their well worn first 
year insignia upon the coffin.
After the ceremonies have been 
completed the honorary fraternities 
will make their annual tap day call.
CAMPUS WEEK PROGRAM
THURSDAY. MAY 14
10:00 A. M......................................................................... Vaudeville
1:00 P. M...................................................................... Qualification
2:00 P. M........................................Tennis, Carnegie vs. Bethany
3:00 P. M........................................................Kaper of the Kilties
3:30 P. M......................................................Girls Baseball Game
8:30 P. M............................................................ Coronation Dance
12:00 P. M...............r...............Coronation of the Campus Queen
FRIDAY, MAY 15
9:00 A. M.......................................................... Girls Sweepstakes
9:30 A. M......................................... Interfraternity Sweepstakes
10:30 A. M.....................................Baseball, Bucknell vs. Carnegie
1:00 P. M..............................................Tennis, Carnegie vs. Pitt
Girls Archery Contest
2:00 P. M............................................Track Meet, Ohio Weslyan
3:00 P. M....................................................Girls Swimming Meet
6:00 P. M.......................................................... Womens Banquet
'9:00 P. M........................................................................ Mardi Gras
SATURDAY, MAY 16
10:00 A. M.............................................................Girls Volley Ball
10:30 A. M................................................................ Alumni Tennis
12:45 P. iyi.................................................................. Alumni Lunch
1:30 P. M.................................................................... Country Fair
2:00 P. M.................................................................... Girls Tennis
8:30 P. TVI................................................ Collegiately Speaking
Coronation to Be Flower
Festival in Sylvan Theatre
Amid flowery splendor, at the mys
tic hour of midnight, in Carnegies 
woodland bower the fairest of the 
fair. Our Campus Queen in the role 
of the mighty Thistle will receive 
the diadem of beauty. Gay .-urging 
crowds, fresh from the Regal Dance,
SCHENLEY25c THEATER . 25c
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GENL MGR.
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY
Mary Philbin and aorman Kerry
------------in------------
FIFTH AVENUE MODELS
The Dazzling Story of a Silken Mannequin.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
THE MIRAGE
With Florence Vidor, Alan Roscoe, Clive Brook, Viola Vale
will surround the sylvan amphithea
ter, where the fourteen handmaids 
the floral monarchs await the com
ing of her majesty.
Emblazoned with streamers and 
iluuminated by a thousand tinted 
lamps the theater as the leafy cov
ert in which the Fairy Queen of 
Midsummer Nights DTeam  was 
crowned, is ready for the coming. 
The Rose, the Violet, and the other 
botanical beauties restlessly bend to 
and fro, like daisies in a summer 
breeze. Then the music oft and
All arrangements having been per
fected to the minutest detail, this 
years Mardi Bras is assured of 
being the gayest and most hilarious 
of Campus Week carnivals. The uni
form distribution of music has been 
simplified by the plan to install a 
sounding-board, everyone has been 
devoting his or her time to the in
vention of an ingenious costume, the 
floors of the Gym and Union have 
been prepared for a ball room fin
ish, and the orchestras have been 
secured.
At last years Mardi Gras the or
chestra could not be heard distinctly 
in all sections of the floor. To 
remedy this condition, acoustical en
gineers made extensive tests and de
cided to place the orchestra, at one 
side of the Gym with a large sound
ing-board directly opposite. The en
gineers claim this will equalize the 
music, enabling even those in the 
farthest corners to' hear each pul
sating noteVivacious and daring as were the 
costumes at the Arts Ball, humor
ous and alluring as were the mas
querades at All Fools Day. none of 
these will approach the colorful and 
distracting disguises of Mardi Gras. 
Harlequins, queens, and vampires, 
gypsies, vaqueros, and mandarins, 
troubadours, cavaliers and shieks will 
cavort capriciously.
Assurances have been offered that 
the halls in the Union and Gym will 
be in excellent conditionn for cVancing. The Steel City Collegions and 
the Collegiate Imps have been se
cured to furnish music for the even
ing. The Collegians will play in the 
Gym. while Imps will "do their stuff 
in the Union.
With these popular musicians to 
tantalize, the impulse is assured, and 
with two excellent dance pavilions 
this year's Mardi Graft is certain to 
be the best in the history of Campus 
Week.
Migratory Dance To Inaugurate C. W. Festivities
Fruternities Procure Good 
Orchestra For Pilgrims 
Frolic; Dormitories Partici
pate For First Time
lipri r
1.Alpha Tau Omega.12.Sigma Epsilon Phi.
2.Delta Ph. Delta.13.Theta X.
3.Pi Kapap Alpha.14.
15.
Alpha Sigma Phi. 
Delta Chi Rlio.4.Delta Upsilon.16.Beta Tlieta Pi.
5.Ph. Kappa.17.Delta Mu.
ti.Kappa Sigma RI10.18.Woodlawn Club.
7.Kappa Sigma.19.Beta Sigma Rho.
S.Acacia.20.K. of C. Hall.
9.Delta Tn Delta.21.Union.
10.Sigma Alpha Epsilon.Error: Phi Kappa
11.'Sigma Nu.cated at '4732 Center s.
Dormitory Men to Hold Migratory 
Dance in Union Wed. Eve. May 13
CAMPUS WEEK PLAY.
(Continued From Page One.)
asleep, it'll tickle .the funny bone of 
a bronze statue. .
The cast, is as fallows:
Obie Newman ...................................
Augustus Caesar Custer, a bashful 
freshman.
Anna Lnria .........................................
Dorothy McKay, a guest at tho 
house party.
Harry Mervis
Archibald Van Gilder, a Senior.
Bettsy Lindsay ..................................
Vida Marquette, the College WidowZabelle Davis .....................................
...............Diana DeVere, a Daneor,
Herb Poloaio .....................................
................Jim Dawson, her brother.
Ellsworth Perrin.............A sophmoro.
Vernon Haldoen ...............................
..................Gus, a suspicious person.
Phil ThoiTie ......................................
..........:..Dr. Spencer, a chaperone.
Elizabeth Sowersby ... I..................
.....................Mrs. Spencer, his wife.
The chorus will consist of Audrey 
Velpp, Catherine Manslield, Cather
ine Harrington, Peg biffin, Virginia 
Peterson, Amy Glassford, Elleanor 
Campbell, Dessa Lassie, Peg Rlelly. 
Peg Wurts, Harriet Blose, .lohn Gil
bert, Pete Riggs, Bob Bridges, Paul 
Bowren, Bill Mariby, Sky Mefort, 
Curt Colvin, Dallas Johnson, Howard 
Baer, Bill Rogers, Ray Savage.
The tickets are being reserved 
rapidly, considering the length or 
time during which they have been on 
reservation, and the committee is 
very much encouraged. The ticket 
sale on the Campus will start about 
the sixth of May and those who have 
not reserved seats may get them 
then,
Members of tfie faculty may get 
their seats at the Alumni Bureau, 
either at the time the tickets are put
One of the innovations to Campus 
Week this year is the mens dormi
tory dance to be held in the Union 
Wednesday, May 13, the night of the 
Interfraternity Migratory Dances. In 
previous years, while tho fraternity 
men ushered in tho festivities of Cam
pus Week at tho migratory dances, 
the dorm men had nothing,to do. and
ere thus deprived of much of the en
joyment of the occasion.
This year, the idea was conceivod 
to have a dormitory dance on the 
campus, and thus to make the migra
tory dances an all-school affair. It 
was necessary, howover, to secure 
permission of the Intorfratornity 
Council before tho dance could bo 
held arid considered part of the mi
gratory dances.
The Idea was favorably recelvod 
by the Interfraternity Council, who 
also granted the dorm men permis
sion to migrate to tho fraternity 
houses. This prlvlloge, however, will 
be granted only to those men who
have paid their assessment, and who 
have Campus Week tags The Un
ion dance is open to all fraternity 
men. having Campus Week tags, of 
course, who care to stop there during 
the evening.
Tho committee under the leader
ship of Ituss Horne has spent a great, 
deal of time and effort, to insure the 
success of tho dance. They have se
cured the Collegiate Imps to play 
from 9:30 till 1:30. and are planning 
to have the best decorations which 
have ever graced the Union.
Thanks are due to the Intorfrnt.ornlty Council for permission to hold 
tho dance; to the Dormitory Council 
for its backing and its help In put
ting the Idea over in tho dorms; and 
to Miss Holm for her support and 
advice.
Tho complete committee In charge 
of arrangements 1D as follows: II.
V. Horne, chairman; J. Forco, D. (!. 
Dalton, Knapponborger, Purduo, Blo> 
bor, arid McDowell.
Newman Club Formal At 
Duqucsne Council Friday
ALL WEEKALL WEEK
THE EIGHT KRUSHINSKB 
BROTHERS ORCHESTRA
Only Known Organization of Its Kind in America.
High Class Novelty Introducing Many Specialties. 
COMPLETE CHANGE OF PROGRAM MONDAY AND THURSDAY 
Plenty of Parking Space at the Schenley.
solemn steals upon the throbbing
air, all is calmed, the flowers rest, j on sale, or they may reserve * them 
the spirit of Pan and his elfin band j before hand. We strongly urge those 
comes upon the crowd. j students who are in a position to do
I Following a burst of mus\c the 
j wood folk ascend to gather  about 
the throne, and then glide into 
shadow's. A spell winds about the 
enchanted audience and as the mu
sic reaches a searching crescendo, 
the Queen approachesleader of them 
all, the mighty Thistleand amid 
fervid torchlight dances, receives 
the supreme token of honorthe 
crown of the Queen of Campus 
Week.
This is the story of the coronaso, to reserve their tickets, and thus 
prevent the confusion which always 
results when the ticket office is open 
on the Campus. From the way things 
look now, everyone on the Campus 
wants to go, and since the number 
of eats to be sold is limited, there 
is bound to be a last minute rush.
Dont forget the details: Collegiately Speaking will be given at the 
Syria Mosque at eight-thirty, Satur
day evening, May 1G, and there will 
be one performance only. Tickets runiuio in i-ii o .3 nil j <-wi uni;
tion, a liglit fantastic fairy tale based j from onG dollar t0 one eventy-fiye. 
on the dainty fete of Shakespeare's |
Midsummer Night's Dream. [Friday and Saturday the principal
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa e East Liberty
The Queen is selected for her 
beauty, her personality, and her in
terest in Carnegiethe factors which 
constitute popularity. Now fifteen 
girls are in the running, Thursday,, 
three finalists will be selected, and 
May 7 at the final balloting the 
Queen will be elected. The Queen 
dominates Campus Week, to her 
comes all the glory that is woman's 
share, she is the goddess whom Car
negie worships for a week.
SCHENLEY THEATER
General Manager Harry Davis of 
the Schenley theater has booked an 
extensive and high class program of 
pictures and music for presentation 
throughout the week. On Monday, 
Tuesday and Wednesday Mary Phil
bin and Norman Kerry will be seen 
in the Universal Jewel production, 
Fifth Avenue Models." On Thursday,
picture attraction will be the famous 
play, The Mirage, brought to the 
screen with Florenco Vidor and an allstar cast. Thoughout tho week an 
extra attraction will be tho Eight 
ICushlnskyl Brothers' orchestra, tho 
only known organization of its kind 
in America. Each program will liavq 
numerous excellent supplementary at* 
tractions Including comedies, novelty 
reviews, news pictures and the llko.
"Fifth Avenue Models Is an adap
tation of Muriel Illnes' interesting 
novel, "Tho Best In Life." The story 
concerns a young woman who sup
ports herself and her unsuccessful ar
tist father by working in a modostle 
shop. She Is called upon to assume 
tho guise of a mannequin, with excit
ing and appealing results leading into 
an unusual romance.
"The Mirage brings forth the 
thought that happiness is a thing to 
be found sometimes in the most unAt two o'clock, next Saturday morn
ing, tho Nownian Club formal will bo 
history; It will go down us tho most 
successful danco In tho history of tho 
club. All arrangements have boon 
completed, only the distribution of 
tickets remaining to be accomplish
ed. Mombors of tho committee havo 
charge of the sale of tlckots, which 
may bo procured from them. The 
early sale of tlckots has boon lively 
and is a source of gratifying to those 
in charge.
The Stool City Collegians will af
ford tho syncopation in which occu
pation they are scarcely excelled In 
I those parts. Tholr latest contract at 
Carnegie Is for the Mardi Oran dur 
ing Campus Week. It Is felt by 
those in charge that, no wiser choico 
could havo been made In tills direc
tion.
A feature will be introduced in 
the way of a solo danco by a member 
of the female sex prominent in that 
line of endeavor. Little will bo said 
but much promised concerning this 
number.
The K. of C. ball room has been 
transformed Into a southern effect 
by a large number of palms which 
will surround the dance floor and 
will lend a favorable background to 
the tables and except for the pres
ence of the tables will resemble 
much the Paradise Isle of the 
Senior Ball a month ago. At twelve, 
a sumptuous repast will bo served, 
representing the highest in culinary 
art, after which dancing will be re
sumed until two o'clock. From pres
ent indications it can confidently be 
predicted that success, in greater 
measure than ever heretofore, will 
crown the efforts of the club in put
ting on this dance.
DELTS IN NEW HOME
As they panned out o Margarol, 
Morrison, they heard some lofty 
strains of music which soomod to be 
Issuing from the vicinity of tho now 
gym. And being a rather inquisitivo 
lot, they decided lo investigato for 
themselves, only to discover that tihoy 
were being entertained by the fam
ous Kiltie Band. After a highly ap
preciated concert, they Inspected oili
er features of tho new gym, especially 
the swimming pool.
Thop they ambi od over to tho Col* 
loge of Fine Arts, whoio the Drama 
Department was staging a one-act. 
play. A concert by some of the 
more talented students Of the Music 
Department londod further variety to 
tho program.
Wending tholr way out of Arts 
School, they went over to the Collago 
of Industries, where tho brick bun 
galow built by . students of both the 
day and night classoB.ln the Depart 
mont of Building Construction, was 
Ilio special featuro of tho ovenlng,
Over In the Science School they 
were highly entertained and Instruct
ed by a trip through the mine, and by 
the display of the Commerciai Engin
eering Department, one of the most 
distinctive features of tho evening. 
Tills exhibit showed the visitors 
what a wonderful workshop wo havo 
right liore in PittsburghThe Interfraternity Migratory 
Dance has always been one of the 
high spots of Campus Week, and io 
always eagerly looked forward to. 
This year, as has been the custom, 
the migratory will officially open the 
festivities on Wednesday evening, the 
thirteenth of May.
This year a new group has been 
addod to the migrators. The mens 
dormitories have engaged the Union 
as their home, and will join the gay 
throng of wanderers from house to 
houso. This condition is a splendid 
idoa, and will serve to promote a 
more democratic feeling on the 
campus.
Of prime interest is the music that 
will he heard at the various houses, 
and a perusal will show that a likely 
aggregation of orchestras has been 
engaged for the occasion. McAfee's 
Orchestra will be at the Acacia house, 
tho Teehson's will syncopate for the 
Alpha Tau Omegas. Beta Tliota Pi 
has signed up Hamiltons Pennsyl
vanians, Ralph Harrison's Blue and 
Gold Orchestra will be heard at Beta 
Sigma Rho, Delta Tau Delta has the 
Melody Lane SyncOpaters, Delta Mu 
will present Carl Bnnkiors Yankee 
Seven, the West Virginians from 
Fairmont;,, W. Va are coming to the 
Slgmri Alpha Epsilon mansion. Sig
ma Epsilon Phi has ongagod the 
Ponnsy Five, PI Kappa Alpha will 
hear Pop" Houcks, The Melody Lane 
Orchestra will play for the Sigma 
Nus, the Steel City Collegians are 
schodulod for Phi Kappa. Delta Upsllon will have Rex McCalls, the Black 
Cat Orchestra will play sweet melo
dies at,the Woodlawu Club, and tho 
Collegiate Imps will till the Union 
with tho latest jazz.
It will bo well to note that tho 
headquarters of the Alpha Tail Ome
gas will again bo nl tho Knights or 
Columbun hall at the corner of Fifth 
and Bolleflolri. Tho Delta Titti Deltas 
will also bo In now haunts, hnvlng 
recently moved to *180*1 Baum boulovard right across tho street from tho 
1*1 Kappa Alpha house,
Si]l'mCS'%Q 
/*\NE of many dlfltlnctiv
Valued for $9 or $7 not poHtd- bly obtainable cliicwlvcrc.Collcj men railway from Mlmiourl John Ward Men' Shoes wll aho youl
On Display By
MR. D. T. KIRKPATRICK 
nt
8KIBO INN 
MAY 0 and 0
Store* In NiwYork.llrooltlyn, Nnwnrk nml Ilillndi'liililn Adiliosi lor Mnlt 
Onlom, 1911 ludion rft, Now York Cit y.
expected places. The picture is adapt
ed from Edgar Selwyn's famous 
drama of the same name in which 
Florence Reed appeared. The story 
concerns a young woman who tries to 
win fame with an artistic career, 
leaving her country town home and 
going to New York. Her inexperi
ence brings engrossing adventures.
Pittsburgh Gathers 
At Annual Exhibition
Immense Crowd Present to 
Inspect School Friday
r.ant Friday overling another exhlbltion night paused Jnto Carneglan 
history. In tholr rounds, tho visitors 
wore taken to Margaret Morrison, 
whero they were entertained by tho 
students of the Costume Economics 
Department who displayed a variety 
of fashionable apparel. The English 
Minors and Secretarial presented a 
delightful and Instructive combina
tion of a musical concert and a dis
play of expert rhythmical typewrit
ing. The Household Economic stu
dents gave evidence'of their abilities 
a la cuisine by presenting each guest 
with a cookie, guaranteed to be ex
clusively a Maggie Murph product.
SPECuAL! -n -ur Second Floor
Boyish Coats 
and Suits
Smart Models of High 
QualityPriced with 
Extreme Moderation
.75ua- 0 u49
The Coats
Youthful modes of 
tweed and cheviot, In 
mlxtureu and high col
ore, arc nmartly iiemlflttcd and' double-* 
breaoted-their boyish 
chic accentuated by 
tiny velvet collar. 
Finely tailored twills, 
flaring or straight, arc 
modluhly fur-bordered, 
embroidered, and trim
med in a number of 
novel cffccta.
The Suits
Polret twill, In plain 
or pencil otrlped navy 
and tan, fachlono theoe 
beautifully tailored 
models, with smartly 
lender long coat, or 
short jacket In boyish 
otyle. Modish tweedo, 
In natural and high 
opirt shades, arc also 
used for the youthful, 
short-coated suits.
FRANK & SEDERSecond Floor

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 28. 1925
j u fiPLAID ATHLETICSJ?
CARNEGIE DEFEATS 
BETHANY NINE, 7-5
Tartans Held Scoreless For 
Six Innings; Bisons First 
Defeat
Displaying the sumo bull-dog ten
acity and indomitable spirit which 
characterizes uJl Carnegie teams, the 
Tartans camo from behind Saturday 
and handed the Bothany College 
baseball team JI.H first defeat o the 
Heaton, core 7-5. The gamo was 
jplayed at Wollsburg on the high 
uchool athletic field.
The Bisons jumped upon the offerInga of Conrad in the first Inning, 
a,nd before the Bide waB retired three 
runB had croBBOd the platter. Con
rad tightened up after that poor start 
and until the fifth inning held the 
opponents well in hand. In tills stan
za the home team managed to push 
over a run, and also another in the 
sixth, giving the BiBons a load of five 
to nothing at the beginning of the 
seventh frame. Beckwith, on the 
mound for Bethany, was going great 
guns until the ill-fated seventh, up 
1.0 that time only two hits had been 
secured off his delivery, a double hy 
iBastian and an Infield single hy 
Christoff.
INewrnan led off the seventh with 
a. sizzling triple to left. He scored 
on a single by Lynch, who was ad
vanced by Vogt. A single by Diffley scored Wally. In the eighth in
ning three runs were pushed across 
l>y the Sklbos. deadlocking the con
test. Several hits in a row proved 
the undoing of the Blsons in this In
ning. Conrad began the ninth with 
a walk. Christoff laid one down, hut 
beat it out and both men were on, 
Maurer sacrificed, both men advanc
ing. Lynch then broke up the gamo 
with a triple to left, scoring the two 
runs. Conrad hold the home team in 
the last of the ninth, and Bothany 
bad lost Its first game in six starts;
The score:
CarT^roTh Ab. R. IT. 1*. A.
Christoff If ........... 4 1. 2 0 0
Maurer 1 ............... 5 0 0 (5 1
Newman 2.............5 1 1 1 0
Lynch 3 ................. 5 1 2 I
Plfiley c ............... r> 1 1 II n
Vogt a ................... *1 2 2 2 2
Kantian m ............. 4 0 2 1 1
Ruhr r ................... 3 0 l 1 0
Conrad p ............... 4 1 1 4 1
Totals ..................39 7 12 27 7
Bollmny Ah. R. IT. P. A.
Carey 2 ................. 5 1 1 1 0
'Ootirlng r ............. fi 1, 3 I 0
.laycox 3 ............... 5 1 I 0 4
K.nporto m .............. n I 1 0 0
nil lot I. e ................. 4 0 2 0 2
ltoark 1 ................. 4 0 1 9 1
'Bookman s ............ 4 o 1 i 3
Tarn If ................... 4 0 1. 2 0
lioalcwlth p ........ 4 .1 I 7 4
rCuhiba'h ............... 0 0 0 0 0
'Totals ..................40 fi 12 27 30
?hutted for ilooUwlth In ninth.
Garnoglo . 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 3 87 ni R 
liotliany ..3 0 0 01 1 0 0 Oti 12 I
TOrrorn-Nowman, Lynch, DliTloy 2, 
lUiMtlnn, Turr, Two buo.o hittiBnutf.bvn i. Bethany; Oiivoy 1. Gohrlng I. 
Throe base hltn - Nowman 1, Lynch 
i. Loft on busesTech (1, Botlmny 
7. Struck oul By Beckwith 3: by 
Conrad 11, YNIT on ballsOff Beck
with 3, of Conrad 1.
ADVERTISE AND GET RE8ULT
Craig Restaurant
The place whore all the follow* 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
A. Sweet Breath o at all times
THE WEEK IN PORTS
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29 v 
BaaucbaU *
Plebes vs. Indiana Normal, *! 
there. *
THURSDAY, APRIL 30 
Baoobivli
Varsity vs. .Juniata, there.
FRIDAY, MAY 1 v
; Baseball !*
Varsity vs. Bucknell, there. 
v Tcnnlo
Varsity vs. W. & J., thoro, -V
: PJebos vs. Wilkinsburg, here, v
-I- SATURDAY, MAY 2 *
Baseball v
v Varsity vs. Penn State, there. * 
I- Track
Varsity, vs Allegheny, bore.
!? Plobes vs. Shadysldo Academy, *: 
there. *1
Tennis ?!<
Plebes vs. Rayen High at *
;* Youngstown. v
BELLEFONTE WINS 
FROM PLEBES 11-6
Plebes Unable to Hold Early 
Lead; Hitting on Both 
Teams the Same
SCHENLEY HIGH TRIMS 
PLBE TOSSERS, 18-11
Ajlwayo carry Wrigloy'* 
to freshen the mouth 
and owccten tlio hronth. 
Soothes norvoa, refreshes 
throat mid aids digestion.pass
- after every meal ftJj
Schenley I-Ilgh school jumped 011 
the efforts of Johnson and Comfort 
in the third Inning last Tuesday and 
trimmed the Tartan Plebes by a 
score of 18-11. The contest was a 
free-liitting affair, tlie visitors gar
nering fifteen hits and the Plebes 
fourteen. This included nine doubles, 
two triploB and a homo run.
Werland started 011 the mound for 
the Schenloyites, but he lasted just 
two innings. Johnson, who was 
chosen hy Coach Robertson to do the 
flinging for the yearlings, lasted a 
similar length of time. Hornyak re
placed Werland and pitched good hall 
for the remainder of the fracas, ex
cept in spots. He fanned ten hat
ters. Comfort was hit freoly, and 
could not soom to get going. It was 
an entirely different game from the 
one he twirled against Shadyside 
Academy in the opening gamo of the 
season, when he did not allow a hit 
or run.
Cottle was tried out on the rub
ber for a couplo of lnnlnga, but I10 
was wild and hit just as hard as his 
predocossors. The foaturo of the
game was a Jcjrcutt clout lny Joe 
Zlvlc, brother of the famous Jack
Zlylc, hoxor.
The lineup:
fVchonley U. 1L T\ A e!
Liggett s ............1 2 4 2 0
Hobbs 2 ..............2 2 2 2 1
Avery 111 ...........2 0 4 0 0
Zlvio 3 ....___3 2 0 3 2
ITarnyak r-p ..3 3 0 0 0
Blgloy c ............2 3 10 1. 3
Rogers If.............2 2 0 0 3
Hibbard 1 ..........0 0 0 0 2
Werland p ....0 0 0 0 0
Moore r ............2 0 0 0 0
MSorloy r ... I 0 0 0 0
Hlljamli'v 2 ....0 0 I 4 0
Bortor 3 ............1 2 0 0 0
Webster 2 ...,0 0 0 2 0
Totals ..........18 in 27 14 11.
Cnrnogio R. H. I*. A. E.
Judd 3 ..............3 2 1'1 0
Cowan 111 ..........:! I 3 0 0
Oottld 8-p ....2 3 2 4 1
Hurd 2 ..............1. I 4 I 0
Bromley 1............1. I. 12 0 1
Taylor If ...........1 1 1 0 0
Johnson r-p ...0 2 1 () 0
Goodlln c ..........0 0 2 3 0
Comfort r-p ...1 2 1 5 1
Hagen a ............0 0 0 1 0
Totals ..........11 14 27 15 3
Two-base hitsCottlo 2, Bromley, 
Comfort, Liggett 2, I-Iobbs, Hornyak, 
Rogers. Three-base liltsHornyak, 
Begloy. Home runZlvic. Stolon 
basesGoodlin 2. First base on balls
'Off |Comfort 5. off Cottle 5, off
Werland 1, oft 'Hornyak 5. Sacrifice 
fiyBigley. Struck outBy Cottle 
1, by Hornyak 12. UmpiresDaugh
erty. Time of game2:08.
HIGH LIGHTS ON
GIRLS* ATHLETICS
With the basketball season a thing 
of the past, the girls are now en
gaged with baseball and volley hall.
Baseball practice is held on Wed
nesday and Thursday noons, begin
ning at 12:30 and lasting until 1:30, 
so that the girls may practice part 
of the hour, and have time for lunch 
also. A large number have been out 
for every practice so far, and it is 
probable that two teams will he 
selected to play during Campus 
Woolc.
Volley hall practice is hold on Mon
days and Tuesdays, during noon 
hour. ClasR toams will ho chosen 
soon, and inter-class games will he 
played. The final gamo for cham
pionship will ho stagod somotlmo dur
ing Campus Woolc.
Saturday of this woelc the A. A. 
luncheon will ho hold at the Bitten* 
houso in East Liberty. Tickets aro 
on sale now for (1.25) ono dollar and
NOTICE!
A limited number of college students will bo given employment during 
the coming summer by the publishers of Good Housekeeping and Cos
mopolitan Magazines. The plan embraces the payment of a stipulated 
weekly salary plus tuition bonuses and traveling expenses. Men with 
previous magazine selling experience will be considered for team cap
tains positions and there will also be openings for several field super
visors. Applications are now being received by Mr. Arthur Zorn, Sub
scription Sales Department, 105 Court Street, Brooklyn, New York.
The Bollefonte Academy nine was 
too good for the Plobes on Satur
day morning at Homewood Field, 
winning 11-0 in a seven inning game. 
Eucli team made eleven lilts, but the 
Plebes made thirteen errors to five 
for the visitors. Johnson was on the 
mound the whole distance for the 
Freshmen, striking out five men. Hill 
and Harshburger divided the work for 
the academy boys, Hill striking out 
two men, and his team mate account
ing for three men In the same man
ner.
The Plobes opened their half of. the 
first inning by scoring two runs. This 
gave them a lead which they held un
til the fourth inning, Bellefonte scor
ing five runs In this inning. The 
FreBhmen tied the score in the same 
Inning, and then took the lead by 
tallying a marker in the last of the 
fifth. This lead was short lived, for 
Bellefonte drove two men across the 
rubber in the sixth, and four:more 
I11 the last inning.
Both teams drove out eight 
singles, two doubles, and a triple. 
Cottle and Johnson lilt the extra 
base smacks for - the Plebes, and 
James and Hood duplicated tills for 
the visitors. De Meolo tripled for 
Bellefonte, while Johnson, besides 
his work 011 the mound, got a triple 
to bring his total lilts up to three 
for the day.
Lineup:
On the Plaid Screen
PlebesAb.R.H.P.A.E.
Judd 3, 413220
Cowan cf .... 310210
Cottle sa ...12110
Hurd 2 ...., -101012
Bromley 1 ... 401251
Hoffman rf. . 300000
Taylor If .... 41.1005
Goodlin c .... 310114
Johnson p .. . 413241
BollefonteAb.R.II.P.A.E.
1311
Whitmore ,... 510150
Groevo .......... A21300
, -101011
910030
Blackburn.. 11.2000
De Moolo ... 3231G1
Mark,or .... 422252
Hill ............00000
Harshburger. 110000
Earned runsPlebea G, Bellefonte 11, 
Struck outBy Johnson 5, by Hill 2, 
by Harshberger 3. Two base lilts 
Cottle, Johnson, Jamos, Hood. Throe 
baso hitsJohnson, Do Moolo. Doubl 
playsBellefonte- 2. Hit by pitcher 
Johnson 2.
a quarter, and can ho socured from 
vnrious members of the A. A. Board.
Only a limited number can bo ac
commodated so those who buy early 
will bo the lucky ones. The cup for 
baslcotball championship will bo prosontnd to tlio Sophomoro class at the 
luncheon.
II. is now timo to sign up for the 
tennis tournament, and the first 
round will bo started soon.
Sweaters have boon ordered for 
those girls who havo (100) 0110 tiunJ. F. CHRISTOFF
TO WEARERS OF THE C"
CampuS Week will soon be here. Have you already made arrangements 
to return to your Alma Mater for ONE glorious time? Or are you putting 
off until the last minute before deciding on how you will put aside your 
daily routine for three days?
There is no question In our minds regarding the deSire of alumni to 
return to the campus on the days set aside especially for them, but it is-a 
human weakness to put off until tomorrow that which should be done today. 
And tomorrow may be too late.
Former letter men at Carnegie will quickly note the changes that have 
taken place in Plaid athletics since those men upheld the honor of the Tar
tans. The new gymnasium, with its swimming pool and Varsity Clan Club 
Room, and the new training quarters will hold special appeal. The alumni 
will want to come hack and shake the hands of the valiant little band that 
trimmed Pitt In football last year. And the prpsent wearers of the "C will 
find inspiration and encouragement in their talks with the oldigrads.
Lets make it a gala occasion!******
SPRING FOOTBALL 
Coach Bob Waddell was highly pleased with the football prac
tice which ,ended last Friday. The men seemed to take unusual in
terest in the work, and from all indications there willl be a husky 
bunch of candidates scrapping for regular positions on the team 
when fall training comes around in September. The spring train
ing served to give the coaches a line on the material with which 
they will work in the fall.
The big task now facing the gridders is to keep eligible in their 
studies. Let no one fall by the wayside, but report in good condition, 
both scholastically and physically, in September.******
THE BETHANY GAME 
It was a grand and glorious feeling on the Tartan bench at 
Wellsburg when Newman slammed out that triple to start the ball 
a-roliing in the seventh inning, with the Bisons eading, 5-0. From 
then on the feeling was prevalent that it was simply a question of 
time before the game would be put on ice, as the Tartans could not 
be stopped once they started hitting. The home team attempted to 
stem the hitting of the Skibos by sending in a southpaw, Kalabach, 
but he fared no better than his predecessor. It was the first loss for 
Bethany this season.
With the Tartans going at a good clip it is felt that the second 
Eastern trip starting next Thursday will be more successful than the 
first one was early in the season. Juniata, Bucknell and Penn State 
will be met.
****** r !>,
DONT FORGET HOME GAMES AT FORBES FIELD
Students, faculty members and alumni residing in the Pittsburgh district 
are urged to attend the home games of the Tartans, which will be played 
011 Forbes Field. Alumni, especially, should make it a point to be there. 
The admission is ony fifty cents, a nominal price, and some good attractions 
aro assured.******
McKinney stepped out in the Penn Relays better than even his most ar
dent admirers had hoped. Mac deserves a world of praise for his efforts and 
showing.******
One place where the boys made real time was in the subways at Philly. 
They reported that the cars were traveling at the rate of five miles in four 
minutes. A real thrill. * * .*  *
At that, the relay team made better time than the team last 
year did.*******
The plebes sure are "doing their stuff these days. They have easily 
won their two meets so far, but tonight they stack up against the varsity 
in a real meet, and will doubtless fare worse. The meet starts art 4:30 
o'clock.******
The freshman baseball team met a real tartar In Bellefonte 
Academy. Headmaster Hughes teams are always of high caliber, 
and it is a pleasure to meet them in any sport.******
Ohio Newman and Wally Lynch headed the mad scramble for ice cream 
cones just before the train left Wellsburg Saturday night. Coach Blytli does 
not indulge in the effeminate pastime.******
There was some poor base running on the part of the Tartans 
In the Bethany game which cost them two runs. But luckily those 
two runs were not needed.******
The loss of Comfort is a blow to the plebe baseball team.******
ARE WE ALL SET FOR CAMPUS WEEK?
drod athletic points, They will not 
arrivo In time to bo awarded at the 
luncheon, but will bo given out at 
an assombly I11 the near future.
Depressing, But So
Ono mustnt toll Willie, but most of 
tho great men have forgotten all they 
ever knew; about algebra;Roanoko 
World N<*ws.
Heat Is f-'ull ot vnemical6.
Aside from Its vnlue as fuel and Its 
use In agriculture, peat lias a score or 
more of uses, and Its field Is being 
constantly widened. A long list of 
chemicals aro extracted from It. These 
Include ammonia, methyl alcohol, ace
tone. acetic acid, pyridlncs. mono* 
phenols, a gasollne-IIke spirit, some 
neutral oils, paraffin wax, tar and 
dyes.
SPRING SPORTS SCHEDULE
BASEBALLVARSITY
Manager...............................J. H. Joynt
Captain..............................P. K. Conrad
Coach.................................Don. B. Blyth
BASEBALLFRESHMAN
Manager........................F. C. Hoenniger
Captain ................................... ...............
Coach..............................J. A. Robertson
(File away for your Information)
TRACKVARSITY
Manager...................C. M. Scrimgeour
Captain..............................J. G. Bright
Coach............................... Guy Halferty
TRACKFRESHMAN
Manager...............................D. S.. Garber
Captain .....................................................
Coach...................................Guy Halferty
TENNISVARSITY
Manager..............................p. H. Sload
Captain. G. R. Beecher
Coach.......................................A. F. Fink
TENNISFRESHMAN
Manager................................R. R. Young
Captain .....................................................
Coach...................................PG F. Fink
Home varsity baseball games will be played at Forbes Field. 
Home track events will be held in the Carnegie Bowl.
Home tennis matches will be played on the Campus Courts.
SATURDAY, APRIL 18 
Freshman Baseball
Shadyside Academy .....................There
TUESDAY, APRIL 21 
Freshman Baseball
Schenley High .................................Here
Freshman Track
Wilkinsburg High ...........................Here
FRIDAY, APRIL 24 
Varsity Track
Penn Relnys........,............Philadelphia
SATURDAY, APRIL 25 
Freshman Baseball
Bellefonte Academy ...........................
.................Homewood Playgrounds
Freshman Track
Union High   ................................ .Here
Varsity Track
Renn Relays .....................Philadelphia
Varsity Baseball
Bothany ....................................... Thoro
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29 
Freshman Baseball
Indiana Normad .....................Thero
THURSDAY, APRIL 30 
Varsity Baseball
Juniata ........................................ There
FRIDAY, MAY 1 
Varsity Baseball
Bucknell .................................... Thoro
Varsity Tennis
W. & J..............................................Thoro
Freshmnn Tennis
Wilkinsburg High ...........................Hero
SATURDAY, MAY 2 
Varsity Baseball
Penn State ....................................There
Varsity Track
Allegheny College ......................Here
Freshman Track
Shadyside Academy .....................There
Freshman Tennis
Rayen High ..................................There
WEDNESDAY, MAY 6 
Varsity Tennis 
Notre Dame ............................... .Here
SCHEDULES ARE AS FOLLOWS: 
THURSDAY, MAY 7 
Freshman Tennis
Crafton High .................................Here
FRIDAY, MAY 8 
Varsity Baseball
Penn State .......................................Here
Varsity Tennis
Penn State .......................................Here
SATURDAY, MAY 9 
Ninth Interscholastic Track Meet..
................................................. Here
Varsity Track
Geneva College ...............................Here
Varsity Baseball
Grove City .....................................There
Freshman Baseball
Bellefonte Academy .....................There
Freshman Track
Indiana Normal .............................There
Freshman Tennis
Westmont High .................Johnstown
TUESDAY, MAY 12 
Varsity Track
Pitt .................................................. Here
Varsity Tennis
Woat Virginia Wesleyan...............Here
Freshmnn Track
Pitt Froshmon .................................Hero
WEDNESDAY, MAY 13 
Freshman Tennis
Westmont. High .............................Hero
THURSDAY. MAY 14 
Varsity Tennis
Bothany ......................................... Hero
FRIDAY, MAY 15 
Varsity Baseball
Bucknell ....................................... Here
Varsity Track
Ohio Wesleyan ..............................Here
Varsity Tennis
Pitt ............................................... Here
Freshman Tennis
Pitt Freshmen ................................Here
SATURDAY, MAY 16 
Varsity Tennis 
Alumni ........................................... Here
Freshman Baseball
Indiana Normal .................................
.................. Homewood Playgrounds
MONDAY, MAY 18 
Freshman Baseball
Iviski------------Homewood Playgrounds
TUESDAY, MAY 19 
Varsity Tennis
Bucknell ......................................... Here
Freshman Baseball
Shadyside Academy ....................There
Freshman Tennis
Wilkinsburg High........................There
THURSDAY, MAY 21 
Varsity Baseball
Grove City ........................................................................................... Here
Varsity Tennis
Syracuse ...................................... There
FRIDAY, MAY 22 
Varsity Tennis
Union College........Schenectady, N. Y.
SATURDAY, MAY 23 
Varsity Tennis
Now York University...........New York
Varsity Baseball
Bethany .......................................................................... Here
Varsity Track
Pitt Intorcollogiatos-----Schenley Oval
Freshman Track 
Pitt Intercolleglatos.. .Schenley Oval 
TUESDAY, MAY 26 
Varsity Baseball
St. Vonaventure .................................
.................. Homewood Playgrounds
WEDNESDAY. MAY 27 
Varsity Tennis
Pitt .............................................. There
Freshman Tennis
Pitt ............................................... There
FRIDAY, MAY 29 
Varsity Tennis
W. & J...............................................Here
Freshman Tennis 
Crafton High ................................There
* ALLEGHENY. COLLEGE *
* MEETS TARTAN v
RUNNERS SATURDAY v
v The first varsity dual track v 
v meet of the year will take place * 
?J* Saturday afternoon at the Skibo *1*
* Bowl when Allegheny College v
* will be the attraction. ' Last * 
v year the Tartans, with such * 
I* stellar performers as Robertson, *1* 
*> Dykeman and Kramer, managed * 
> to nose out the Allegheny run- v
* ners by a small score, so the ?
* meet this week promises some * 
> close competition and a great *
* deal of excitement. If you have *
* a weak heart do not come out * 
v to witness this encounter, un- v
* less you bring a doctor with * 
v you. Manager Scrimgeour an- * 
-J- nounces that expert officials will *
be in charge of thO meet. *
PLEBE TRACK TEAM DE
FEATS UNION H. S. 75-35
The plebe track team under the 
leadership of Captain Irving Craw
ford, continued their winning streak, 
easily defeating Union High School, 
Turtle Creek, last 'Saturday in the 
Carnegie Bowl, by the one-sided score 
of 75-35. This was the. second dual 
meet of the season for the fresh
men.
Crawford again displajTed fine form 
in winning the half mile, making the 
distance in 2:7 2-5. The Tartan cap
tain was not hard-pressed in this 
event, as Miller and Tweedy, of Un
ion, who came in second and third 
respectively, were yards behind at 
the tape. .
Cayelli and McMillan displayed ex
cellent form in the 100 and 220 yard 
dashes, bringing first and second 
places of both dashes to the Tartan 
score. Cayelli came first in both ev
ents, with McMillan running a close 
second each time. The time for the 
100 yard was 10 4-5; 220 yard, 24 3-5.
Hurd, a newcomer on tli.e plebe 
team, showed up well, winning the 
broad and high jumps. It was Hurds 
first attempt at the broad jump, jump
ing 18 feet. 10 inches, the winning 
distance. He also placed first in the 
higli jump with a mark of 5 feet, 5 
inches. Sebastian, of the Plaid, won 
top honors in the discus by throw
ing it 94 feet, 11 inches.
While Union failed miserably in 
the general scoring, much can be said 
of the men. No team has displayed 
a better brand of sportsmanship on 
the Carnegie track, and gameness 
was the motto of every man. Car
negie had to be satisfied with third 
place in the mile, the visitors show
ing real form in this event, taking 
first and second places. Colclaser fin(Continued on Page Five.)
WILKINSBURG RUNNERS 
LOSE TO PLEBES, 75-23
The Plebe track team opened its 
season last Tuesday by decisively de
feating the strong Wilkinsburg High 
School athletes in a rather one-sided 
meet, score 75-33. For a while it 
looked as if the visitors would give 
the plebes a hard fight, but several 
firsts in a row put the young Tar
tans in the lead, never to be headed. 
The plebes took nine firsts during the 
afternoon while the best Wilkinsburg. 
could do was three firsts, two of these 
being in the field events. Cervin, 
who was nosed out by Cayelli in the 
century race, got revenge by win
ning the 220 yard dash from his 
rival.
Crawford was told to hold back in 
the mile in order to save himself for 
the half-mile run later on. He was 
content to take a second place in the 
mile, but he won the half in the good 
time of 2:10 3-5.
The summary: .
Track Events.
100-yard dashWon by Cayelli, 
Carnegie; Cervin, Wilkinsburg, sec
ond; McMillan, Carnegie, third. Time 
:ll.
220-yard dashWon by Cervin, Wil
kinsburg; Cayelli, Carnegie, second; 
McMillan, Carnegie, third. Time 
:25 4-5.
440-yard dashWon by Flynn, Car
negie; Singles, Carnegie, second; 
Coulter, Wilkinsb.urg, third. Time 
:56 4-5.
Half-mileWon by Crawford, Car
negie; Coulter, Wilkinsburg, second; 
Kirsch, Carnegie, third. Time2:12 
3-5.
One-mileWon' by Kirsch, Carne
gie; Crawford. Carnegie, second; 
Baker, Wilkinsburg, ~ third. Time 
5:03.
120-yard low hurdlesWon by 
Munroe, Carnegie; Hopper, Carnegie, 
second; Tearhart, Carnegie, third. 
Time: 15 1-5.
Field Events.
Broad jumpWon by 'Selds, Car
negie; Lane, Wilkinsburg, second; 
Henry and McCreary, Wilkinsburg, 
tied for third. DistanceIS feet 11 
inches.
High jumpWon by Henry, Carne
gie; Hopper, Carnegie, second; Wood,
CARNEGIE SECOND 
IN PENN CARNIVAL
Plaid is Beaten by M. I. T. in 
Close Race; Renssalaer 
Finishes Third
The Tartan relay team was forced 
to accept second place in the Tech
nical School mile relay last Satur
day at the Penn Relays, bowing to 
Massachusetts Techs speedy quarter-milers. Renssalaer Polytech was 
third.
Biers carried Carnegies colors in 
the first lap, getting off to a good 
start. He finished the quarter in sec
ond place, handing the baton to Mc
Kinney who managed to hold second 
place throughout the lap. Kelly, 
running third for Carnegie, began im
mediately to cut down the lead of 
Bateman, the M. I. T. flash, and came 
through with some remarkable speed, 
putting the Plaid in first place at the 
three-quarter mile mark, passing the 
stick to - Dyke, Carnegies anchor 
man. Davidson, the spedy Massachu
setts runner outsped Dyke, and broke 
the tape for the Bay State college.
The Plaids defeat after two years 
of victory in this event is not due to 
the fact that the team this year is 
below the standard of previous years, 
but the competition was of a higher 
caliber. The average time for the 
Carnegie quartet was 53 seconds per 
quarter mile.
Biers traversed his lap in good or
der, getting off to a rather slow 
start. His time for the quarter was 
53 2-5 seconds, finishing the lap a few 
yards behind the M. I. T. first man. 
McKinney, taking the baton from 
Biers, ran the best race of the Car
negie men, doing his turn in the re
markable time of 51 4-5 seconds. This 
lap put the Plaid colors on nearly 
even terms with the Boston school.
Kelly, on receiving the baton from 
McKinney, romped off with a burst 
of speed and took the lead. His 
time for the round being 52 seconds. 
Dykes efforts to hold the four yard 
advantage, proved to be in vainhe 
was pitted against M. I. T.s best 
man, one of the best sprinters in the 
Hub dictrict. Dykes time was '54 
4-5.
The fact that Carnegies time this 
year was about two seconds better 
than that of last years quartet 
proves that the team is of no mean 
ability as compared with Tartan 
teams of the past.
Jack Bright did well 4n the inter
national two-mile race, on Friday, but 
did not place among the leaders; 
there being quite a galaxy of stars 
entered.
Bohn and Seamon ran in the heats 
for the international 100 yard trophy 
but could not face the competition 
of such men as Hubbard and Poritt. 
This race was won at 9 4-5 seconds, 
which is one of the fastest centuries 
run in the East this season.
CRAWFORD ELECTED 
PLEBE TRACK CAPTAIN
Irving Crawford, the Tyrone young
ster who is showing up exceptionally, 
well in track this spring, was hon
ored by his mates Saturday by be
ing unanimously elected to captain 
the plebe track team. Last fall 
Crawford was captain and best man 
of the plebe cross country team.
Coach Guy Halferty is looking 
ahead in handling his plebe team this 
spring. Next year he will need a 
good half-miler, so he is grooming 
Crawford for that event mainly. The 
peculiar thing about the situation is 
that in high school Crawford had 
never run anything except the 100 
and 220 yard dashes. When he came 
here last year he went out for cross 
country, making good right from the 
start. He can. run anything from 100 
to five miles in good time, and is 
only nineteen years old.
Captain Crawford is taking the re
gular freshman course, and has not 
yet definitely decided whether he will 
take Machinery Production or Com
mercial Engineering. He is a mem
ber of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.
Carnegie, third. Height5 feet 4 
inches.
DiscusWon by Kopsh, Wilkins
burg; Sebastian, Carnegie, second; 
Wood, Carnegie, third. Distance 
101 feet 10 inches.
JavelinWon by Wilkins, Wilkins
burg; Wood, Carnegie, second; Nechlinger, Wilkinsburg, third- Distance 
133 feet 7 inches.
ShotWon by Sebastian, Carnegie; 
Wood, Carnegie, second; Grissich, 
Wilkinsburg, third. Distance  39 
feet 9 inches.
Pole vaultWon by Munroe, Car
negie; Sands and Smith, Wilkins
burg, tied for second. Height9 feet 
6 inches.
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
Dont Be An Antique 4
Some people look like an olei relic in formal clothes that \'\J; 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. Youll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:305:30

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
CAMPUS WEEK TO 
OFFER GOOD SPORTS
Starting With Tennis Thurs. 
Athletic Program Will 
Last 1 hree Days
Campus Week this year promises 
a. large assortment oE athletic activi
ties- Starting on Thursday after
noon there is no let-up until late 
Saturday afternoon. Naturally, we 
are not going to miss anything that 
is going to be offered and to that 
end, a little information as to where 
iind when desired.
In casting our eyes at the tentative 
schedule we note that a tennis game 
Thursday with Bethany is listed for 
2:00 o'clock. This match should 
prove interesting for Bethany is 
-counted to have a strong team.
Then at 3:30 th girls will do their 
stuff. These Amazon's will display 
their skill at the gre'at American pas
timebaseball. From all reports, 
this event should prove both interest
ing and entertaining.
Early on Friday morning, at 9:00 
oclock in fact, the spectators will be 
treated to an "eye-opener in the 
form of a girls costume race. They 
will not divulge the breed of horse 
or the, brand of car they are going 
to use but they promise a spectacle, 
the like of which was never before 
seen by human eye. Come out and 
be thrilled.
2
Way do ^oii comb your Mr?

For neat ap
pearance, the 
great aid to 
success. Keep 
your hair 
combed all 
day with
rlOCO
CGloss-Comb) 
THE ORIGINAL 
LIQUID HAIR DRESSFOFZ
Real Men and Boys
Send for Sample Bottla 
Mall coupon today for generous trial bottle. Normany Product* 
Co.. 6511 McKinley Avenue, Lot 
Angeles, Cal.
Name-----
Address
LHJXKMBE0M3
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Tin
SACK SUIT
(Two and three button)
CuT with that conservnti.im carefully clrcaflcd me 
demand, and tailored iti ap
propriate, rich patterns 
that scamp them as dis
tinctive*.
3230 to H2S0
LUXENBERG O BROS. 
841 -Broadway, New York
? Next showing at Hotel ^ 
C Schcnley, April 30 and May 1J
PLAID ATHLETICS
CA0aEGuE VA0SuTY BASEBALL SQAD
Courtesy Gazette Times.
Sub. Out fie k/ex*
to ibo handled by W. S. Haddock, 
referee; John T. Taylor, starter; 
JoBopli Wagmau, clerk of. course, 
and Henry Blum, Hold judge. Tilieso 
men are unsurpassod as directora oC 
nthlotip contests, having sorved aa 
officials Cor many yours in this dis
trict.
Harrisburg, Tool, "Winners of the 
moot last year, aro ontorod again 
and will bring to Pittsburgh a vory 
strong and woll balanced  anuad. 
Scott High, Poabody High and Lockhaven High, tho wlnnors of tho class 
relays last year will bo out to hold 
tholr roajvoctlvo claas honors again, 
and should put up a real light. 
Thirty-eight aohoola compotod last 
yoar, or inoro than (550 athlotos.
Tho affair tltla yoar is bolng man
aged by E. C. Frazlor, and his noBlatant, J. B. Whitman, Ev. Plum
mer and .T. A, C. Follor.
Alumni ara naked. to po*opornt:o by 
Hoeing that tholr homo town aohoohi 
rocolvo Invitations to tho moot.
PLEBE TRACK TEAM DEFEAT8 UNION H. 8. 75-35
(Oontlniuod From Pago Four.) 
Itihod first, 4:G-l 2-G; with Walkor, 
his team-mate, a cloao second. 
Kirsch, of Carnoglo ciOBBOd third.
Tho summary:
Track Evontu.
100-yard daHhWon by Cayolll, 
Carnoglo; McMillan, Carnoglo, ITTF 
ond; Houck, Union, third. Timo 
:10 4-5.
220-yard dash--Won by Cayolll. 
Carnoglo; McMillan, Carnoglo, secand; Jacquou, Carnoglo, third. Timo 
:24 3-G.
M 0-yard dashWon by Singlen, 
Carnoglo; Flynn, Carnoglo, second; 
Lodgor, Union, third. Time55 4-5.
Half mileWon by Crawford, Car
noglo; Walker, Union, socond; Twoo
dy, Union, third. Time2:7 2-5.
Ono mileWon by Colclassor, Un
ion; Walker, Union, socond; Kirsch, 
Carnegie, third. Time4:54 2-5.
120-yard low livrdlesWon byHopper, Carnegie, Munroe, Carnegie, 
second; Teresoyl, Union, third. Time 
*:15.
Field Events.
Broad jumpWon by Hurd, Carne
gie; McCroery, Carnegie, socond; 
Kirsch, Carnegie, third. Distance, 18 
feet 10 inches.
High jumpWon by Hurd, Carne
gie; Hopper, Union, second; Barrett, 
Union, third. Height, 5 feet 5 Inches.
Pole vaultWon by Munre, Car
negie; Bvashavlck, Union, second; 
Boone, 'Union, third. Height, 0 feet 
G Inches.
Shot putWon by Wliisner, Un
ion; Sebastian, Carnegie, second; 
Woods, Carnegie, third. Distance, 41 
feet 0 1-2 inches.
JavelinWon by Morris, Union; 
Boone, Union, second; Forsha, Car
negie, third. Distance, 132 feet 3 
inches.
DiscusWon by Sebastian, Carne
gie; Woods, Carnegie, second; Lowden, Union, third. Distance, 94 feet 
11 inches.
^ Qje/c/ei* o-'
SCHOLASTIC MEET 
PLANS COMPLETE
Harrisburg Tech Last Years 
Winners Enter Strong 
Aggregation
With tho ninth annual Intorscholastic track moot but a little ovor a 
woolc away, preparations aro rapidly 
noarlng completion. At tho present 
time a total of ilfty-slx high schools 
have ontorod teams In tho ovonts. 
Tho moot will bo run off In tho 
morning and afternoon of May 9, In 
tho Carnoglo Bowl
Since tho competition has boon re
stricted to high schools, thus elimin
ating tho largo prey and normal In
stitutions, all toama will have a fair 
show. Forty-four of tho llfty-alx 
schools ontorod are from Ponnaylvanla, nlno aro from Ohio and threo 
from Wost Virginia.
Tho fratornltlos of tho campus 
mako this moot possible with tholr 
co-operation In housing tho visiting 
athletob. Arrangomonts aro progress
ing for tho Y. M. C. A. to glvo a 
dinner after tho moot lu ovor, In tho 
Commons. Tho athlotos will dross 
In tho now gym, and aro thus as
sured of plenty of room. Silver cups 
will bo glron to tho winners of Lho 
throo class rolays, and a cup will 
also bo glvon to tho school winning 
the groatost numbor of points In tho 
ovonts.
Tho racos will bo run on daylight 
savings time, tho first starting at 
10:30 a. m. Rules of tho Intorcolloglato Assocltlon of Amateur Atblotes will govorn the moot, which is
3
copying
Buy
r  
dozen
Superlative in 
t he world-fa
%
ENUSPENCILS
give best service and 
longest wear. ,
Plain end, per dor. $1.00 Rubber end, per dor. 1.20
c/It all dealers ~ j
American Lead Pencil Co. 
220 Fifth Avc.,N.Y.
AL WIERMAN BECOMES 
COACH AT MONESSEN
The worth of Carnegie athletics 
has again been demonstrated by the 
appointment of Alan E. Weirman, 
former Plaid football star, as foot
ball coach and athletic director at 
Monessen High school, Monessen, Pa. 
This adds another name to the al
ready sizeable list of Carnegie ath
letes who have been in demand as 
coaches in the secondary schools.
A1 played on the Tartan team four 
years ago, being regular quarterback 
when Jimmie Robertson was a substi
tute. Leaving school in 1922, A1 Im
mediately accepted a position as 
coach in Monongaliela city, taking 
charge of the football, basketball, and 
baseball teams of Monongaliela High 
school. His success there was so 
great that at the end of two years 
he received a flattering offer from 
Monessen, and it is this which he 
has just accepted.
Although he did not graduate while 
in school, Weirman was well along 
in the Machinery Production course 
in the College of Industries, and at
tended summer school here last year, 
making up back work. While in 
school, he was a member of Beta 
Theta Pi fraternity and quite active 
011 the campus.
After the girls complete their 
epoch-making contest the grand cli
max will be presented in the form of 
the annual Interfraternity Sweep
stakes. Many new faces and many 
new designs will be seen, due to the 
revised rules which are found on an
other page of this issue.
Then at 10:30 the varsity baseball 
team will meet the team represent
ing Bucknell. At 1:00 oclock in the 
afternoon the tennis teams from Pitt 
and Carnegie will clash to decide 
their supremacy in that sport Start
ing at 2 oclock on this same day 
there will be a dual track meet with 
Ohio Wesleyan. Ohio Wesleyan has 
a particularly strong team this year 
and is slated to give our boys a hard 
tussle. Lets turn out and see what 
happens. The track meet ends the 
athletic events for Friday.
At 10:00 oclock on Saturday 
morning the girls will again enter
tain the assembled multitude. This 
time, however, the entertainment will 
be in the form of a volley ball game 
rather than a baseball game. To 
further prove , that this is the girls 
day we find that at 2:00 oclock they 
also engage in tennis matches. Even 
though the girls seem to monopolize 
the day we find that the alumni have 
managed to have 10:30 set aside as 
the time for their annual tennis 
matches. At this time they cross rac
quets with those who represent the 
school at present in an effprt to show 
that they have not forgotten the art.
And when the last event will have 
been brought to a close we all heave 
a sigh of regret, feeling that the 
time was all too short. True some 
who are no longer spry and active 
will heave an entirely different sigh 
one of relief from stress and strain 
feeling that they may now go home 
and sleep without fearing that they 
will miss something. Butsuch is 
Campus Week. Come and enjoy it.
Here is the condensed schedule, 
keep it for your information: 
Thursday:
TennisBethany, 2:00 p. m.
Girls Baseball3:30 p. m.
Friday:
Girls Sweepstakes9:00 a. m.
Interfraternity Sweepstakes  9:30 
a. m.
Baseball Game10:30 a. m.
TennisPitt1:00 p. m.
Ohio Wesleyan Track Meet2:00 
p. m.
Saturday:
Girls Volley Ball10:00 a. m.
Alumni Tennis10:30 a. m.
Girls' Tennis2:00 p. m.
Plebe BaseballIndiana Normal 
3:30 P- m- . U.Atl
17
black
degrees
they are members of the track team 
they could not spend as much of 
their time with the football squad 
as they might otherwise have. Shel
ton, Middleton, Powerie and 
Shaughency were the other end men.
Yoder and Kristof were unable to 
report for the spring workout, Yoder 
being a member of the track team, 
and Benny because of his ankle that 
is just recovering from a break. 
Holmes, Tate, Henderson, Cooper, 
Allen and Guthrie are working hard 
for the positions at tackle.
Cass and Anderson, regular guards 
last year, have the call over the rest 
of the field. Not very far behind are 
Marshall, Swaile, S. L. Brown, Coop
er, Walter, Davis, Henderson, Myers, 
Chalupa, Putt and Don Miller.
Manby is the class of the centers. 
Bieltki, Neff and Allen are very val
uable men to have around in case 
they are  needed.
The prospects for next year aro 
quite fair. If the men all return 
to school next fall eligible to play 
there is no reason why we should 
not have a better team than last 
year. Getting eligible is the most 
ImpoFtant thing 011 the gridders pro
gram right now.
Besides the players, Manager Roller 
and his assistants, Lyle Sheppard, 
Don Young and Bill Williams also 
deserve merition for the work they 
did each night of drill.
It will interest every one to know 
that Coach Wally Steffen will prob
ably be one of the visitors during 
Campus Week.
With the first match scheduled for 
this Friday with Carnegies ancient 
rivals, W. and J., to be played at 
Washington,' the outlook for the Sklbo tennis team is only ordinary, ac
cording to Coach Fink. Although the 
weather has been very advantageous 
for practice this spring, the team has 
been hampered by the poor condi
tion of the school courts. This fault 
is principally due to the lack of as
sistant managers of tennis this 
spring. It is expected, however, 
that the courts will be in playing con
dition for the first home match with 
Notre Dame next Tuesday.
The outlook for the Plebe team is 
no brighter than that of the varsity, 
the reason for this statement may be 
given in very few words; there is a 
noticeable lack of good material. 
Last year the Plebes were fortunate 
in having good material, but tills 
year the freshman class la surprlsingly weak in netmen. The Plebe 
squad selected by Coach Fink Includ
es Hooper,, late of Wilkinsburg; Petticord, who showed up well In the 
tournament last fall; Scott, another 
boy from the Holy City; Belir, Nosrum and Stevens, of whom little is 
known. Those men who were drop
ped from the freshman squad will 
participate in a tournament, the pur
pose of which will be to stimulate in
terest in tennis in the younger set.
The varsity squad as named by 
Coach Fink will be made up of the 
following men: Harry Smith, captain 
of last years outfit; George Beecher, 
who was only defeated once last 
year, Bill Kemery and Paul Bowron, 
two letter men who are displaying re
markable form tills season, McWil
liams and Coover, members of the 
Plebn team last year; Geo. Baldwin 
and Halsey Jones. From this group 
of men Carnegie should have a re
presentative not team tills year.
Tennis Players
THE RACKET SERVICE COMPANY hao been organized to give you 
24-hour service in RESTRINGING, REPAIRING and REFINISHING.
Sudden Service v/e call it.
The 0acket Service Company
319 PITTSBURGH LIFE BUILDING 
Across Federal Street from Rosenbaum's. Visit
Compliments
Skibo unn
SPRING FOOTBALL 
COMES TO CLOSE
Coach Bob Waddell Satisfied 
With Results of Third 
Annual Training
*SOME MEMBERS OF THE SQUAD.
Shorty" Maurer.
"Shorty 'Maurer, who is at pres
ent defending the initial sack so ably, 
is not unknown to Carnegie follow
ers, as he was a membor of last 
years varsity basketball squad and 
captain of the 1924 Plobe basketball 
team. He is a membor of Sigma Nu 
and a Sophomore in Industries Col
lege.
Engineering School and a member 
Delta Tau Delta.
"Dutch" Lieberknlght.
C. E. Lieberknlght, another 
Dutch, is one of the few pltcliors 
being carried this year. So far ho 
has beeu in only one game but should 
be ready for a capable performance 
soon. This Is his third year horo, as 
he is majoring in Physics. Ho also 
is a member of Alpha Tau Omega.
Under a sweltering sun that made 
better swimming than football 
weather, the football squad finished 
their spring training last Friday 
evening. Because Coach Steffen 
could not be present, the squad was 
in charge of his assistant, Bob Wad
dell. Bob reports that the men have 
worked hard, have entered into the 
spirit of the work, and that much 
good will come from the two weeks 
training.
The sqilad reporting numbered 
somewhere in the neighborhood of 
fifty men. The size of the squad 
was held down by the competition of 
track, baseball, injuries and studies 
Among those reporting where sev
eral additions to the squad from last 
years Plebe team.
The men who will be missed the 
most from the squad of last year are 
Obie Newman and Chet Hable. Oble 
was one of the best1 captains that 
have worn the Plaid, and his ab
sence is bound to be felt. Chet 
Hable will be missed too. 1-Ie was 
one of the most consistent players 
on last years team.
Among the backs the most promi
nent are ^Captain Beede, Harmon, 
Mohrman, Wertenberger, Bastlan, 
Donahue and Christoff. With the 
exception of Bastian and Christoff, 
these men were all out for spring 
training. The last two are members 
on the varsity baseball squad. Se
bastian, Moorehead, Cowan, Illig and 
McClelland are the best backs from 
the Freshman squad, and should be 
a big help' to the team. Frank 
Smith, a man who has not played 
before at Carnegie, was one of the 
finds of the two-week period. More 
will be heard from him later. Crum, 
a non-degree man, Esche, Wilcox, 
Seibert and Warren were the other 
backs to report.
Among the ends reporting Goodwin 
and Mefort need no introduction. As
Joe Diffley.
Joe Diffley, regular catcher this 
year, was at the same position last 
season until the disbanding of the 
team, when ho switched ovor to the 
Plebe squad and earned Ills numer
als there. He is a Sophomore in the 
Commercial Engineering Department 
and a member of Delta Tau Delta.
F. M. McClelland.
F. M. McClelland hold down the 
Keystone bag in capablo fashion un
til displaced by Obies suporlor ex
perience, and is now numbored first 
In the reserve strength. Ono of the 
feAV Seniors on tho team, ho is in tho 
Commercial English Department and 
a membor of Tau Beta PI, Thota Tau 
and Theta XI national fratornity.
Chet Hable.
C. L. Hable, othorwiso known as 
Chet, has gone moro or less unno
ticed on tho baseball field, but as 
first substitute recolvor lie Is render
ing valuable service to tho squad. The 
Printing Department appeals tp him 
and Alpha Tau Omega claims him as 
a member.
"Artie Bahr
A. W. (Artie) Bahr, has boon per
forming in the outfield as a substi
tute until recently, whon I10 broke 
into the regular lineuup. He is a 
Machinery Production man and a 
member of Pi Delta Epsilon and Al
pha Tau Omega, besides working on 
The Puppet staff.
Dutch" Shrlver.
Dutch Shrlver, also ann outfield
er, although no regular, has shown 
quite enough to be kept with the first 
string subs. A Sophomore, he is in
"Lefty Bassett.
Lofty Bassott is tho only south
paw pitcher 011 tho staff, and though 
seeing little sorvlco as yet, will bo 
called upon in tho noar future. lie 
Is a Woodlawn Clum man and is onrolled In tho Collogo of Fine Arts.
G. E. Vogt.
G. E. Vogt, at present putting up 
a lino game at shortstop, is also a 
Sophomoro and Is taking IOloctrlcal 
Engineering. Ho Is a mombor of 
ICappa Sigma Rlio and galnod his 
baseball joxporlonco on last years 
plobe team.
FOUR REMAINING GAMES
OF BASEBALL PLAYED
AT FORBES FIELD
As Graduato Manager Buddy 
Ovorond has rocontly made arrangomonts with tho managomont of Forbes 
Field to play four of tho five remain
ing homo games at this llold, they 
aro oxpocting tho alumni to back up 
tholr toam In baseball.
Tho baseball team hoods all tho sup
port possible, as thoy aro just getting 
rounded Into form whore they can dis
play their wares. Tho remaining 
homo gamos at Forbes Field aro as 
follows:
Friday, May 8Penn State, 3:30 p. m. 
Friday, May 15Bucknell, 10:30 a. 111. 
Thursday, May 21Grove City, 4:30 
p. m.
Saturday, May 23Bethany, 2:30 p. in.
United States Far in Lead
The United States carries more life 
Insurance than all the rest of the 
world romblnod
Tennis Squads Working Hard
Under Coach Fink For Opening

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1925
ALUMNI PAGE
ANNUAL LUNCHEON AT WM PENN
J0ooms at Dorms 
Can be -btained
'Both Men and Women to be 
Accomadated at Dorms 
Price, Half Buck
In previous year alurnni have come 
to Pittsburgh tor Campus Week ex
pecting to stay at bo me friend's home 
-or at a fraternity house, and In many 
SNITDL at hotels where expenses run 
3algli. This year, however, there Is to 
lie no such situation. Mr. Tllbrook 
of the alumni office has perfected a 
plan whereby all men and women 
.alumni will bo housed In the men's 
and womens dormitories on Wood:2awn avenue, if they make reserva
tions. And the price is only lifty 
cents a night!
There Is ample room for as many 
alumni as will come. Think of the 
advantages: no largo hotel bills to
.pay; 110 need to impose on friends, 
and no large taxi bills, for the dor
mitories are located on the campus 
and after each event one can return 
to his room within live minutes. All 
that has to be done in order to obtain 
a nice, convenient room is to inako 
reservations with Mr. G. L. Tllbrook, 
Alumni Office, before May 13. Flguro 
tup the number of nights you intond 
to stay, multiply it by 50 centB (the 
cost per night) and you have your 
housing problem for CampuB Week 
solved.
In connection with the dormitory 
Tonorvatlons the Carnegie Grill KI ou 
,Wood lawn avenue, a lew steps from 
the donna. The Grill serves cloan. 
wholesome food, with all facilities for 
jjood .service. The prices are very 
reasonable, 'flie Grill is open from 
7:30 a. in. to 12:00 p. m., a fact which 
insures any late sleepers or midnight 
promenaders a good meal in a colle
giate atmosphere.
THE WEEK ua THE W-0LDS aEWS
(Continuod From Pago Two.)
No Ijoana,'* is tho battle slogan of 
thfj Gorman Marxian party in its at
tempt to defeat the Field Marshal In 
3ils campaign for Presidency of the 
Gorjpnn Itoich. With the acceptance 
by Von Ulndonburg of tho proffered 
candidacy, tho political pot began 
to boll, for this movo draggod from 
(tile shadow of tho past thd possibil
ity of a return to monarchlstic rule.
The main objection to tho old war 
Jiorse Is tho offoot that Ills election 
would have on tho other world powWB, specially at this time, when 
-Mornmny needs the good will of all 
if alio is to solve her serious probloms. Loans and trade are essentiul to her welfare, and thore Is a 
fooling rampant that her chances for 
.tooth would ho lessoned by tho eleo 
tlon of a monarchisti govornmont,
Tho Flold Marshall, at tho age of 
<rm enty>sevon, has plunged Into the 
fray with bin old-time vigor, declar
ing himself the champion of pxacofui restoration, world ee-eperatlon, 
and complete sovereignty for the 
Ctanimn people. When questioned 
.concerning: the ??VTI Plan, tho kind 
of stato government that ho desires 
to bring about, and the proposed 
Security Pact, ho tiUBwered aB fol
lows: The Dawes Plan will bo incapablo of fulllllinent by Germany 
unlesB the other nations evince a 
generous Bpirit of tolerance; the per
sonalities at t'ho head of a govern
ment determine its power, not tho 
.mechanical form; the Security Pact 
will prove agreeable on tho Western 
Irontier, but will never be signed to 
take wire of Eastern troubles.
SWEEP STAKES 
ON MORNING OF 
FRIDAY, MAY 15
Alumni Urged to Return in 
Time to Support Fraternity 
Brothers and Women 
Friends in Thrilling Races
FIRST HEAT AT 9:00
CANDIES 
ICE CREAM 
LUNCHEON 
DINNER
0 TO 8 P. M.
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
to serving a most dcllclous 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We Invite the students to 
meet their friends In the Reymer Store.
In the Interfraternity sweepstakes, 
which will be hold at 9:80, Friday 
morning, May 15, CarnogioB speed 
demons will unleash their extreme 
speed along the asphalt speedway and 
each will do his utmost to gain the 
coveted prize. To the winner goes 
one cup and another will be present
ed for tho host designed car. In no 
casecan one car win both prizes.
At 9:00 the same morning, the 
Girls' Sweepstakes will be held 
somewhere along Woodlawn avenue, 
and contestants are ready lo push 
their wobbling kiddy cars in recordbreaking time.
All the fraternities, inspired with 
new Ideas, are urging forward their 
engineers in the production of a car 
that will be capable of attaining a 
velocity heretofore unknown. Plans 
and drawings are being designed, mtu 
chine parts are being constructed and 
each fraternity, as busy aB a motor 
car company, is rushing to produce 
its car for Campus Week.
At the pop of tho gun, thrill after 
thrill and oxclteinent, that will keep 
all tho spectators on their toes, will 
onsup. iS'peedsterB tearing around 
cornors, collisions and upsets will 
arouse everyone's interest to the 
highost pitch and the cheering and 
yelling will compl.ete tho program of 
this exciting morning.
The girls who will participate in 
the sweepstakes, as well as the fra
ternities, are counting on tho pre
sence and loyal support of their alum
ni friends and brothers at the racoB. 
The events are put on more for the 
entertainment of former studentB 
than for any other purpose, and a 
groat deal of effort Is oxpondod in 
making them one of the most excit
ing and enjoyable events' of Campus 
Week, if the alumni fall to turn out 
to ,TT the contests, tho efforts are 
as good as wasted.
Too many alumni in former yoars 
have folt that they were lending their 
full support to Campus Week if they 
got to Carnegie In time to take part 
In tho Mardi Gras Friday night and 
in tho ovonts of Saturday. They 
should realize that just as much lime 
and energy go Into the preparation 
of tho ovonts of the first two days as 
Into those of tho last day and that 
the. former events have tho same pur
posethat of showing the returned 
grads a good time.
It Is hoped that, the alumni Ibis 
year will respond to the Invitation of 
their fraternities and of the women 
students to attend the swoopstalcos 
and lo once more experience tho old 
oxhlllratlon as (hey see their broth
ers and their girl friends battle for 
victory on the aspluilt track.
Tile sweepstakes are to he run in 
four heats tills year In order to elim
inate (ho disorder which has ruinod 
tho chiincoB of some of tho contenders 
in former races. The car making the 
best time will be declared the win
ner.
Another rule which will differen
tiate this contest from those of for
mer years is the one requiring all 
cars to carry the same bodies in the 
race which they use in the contest 
for the design.
A third change in the procedure is 
the change in the starting and finish 
line, which has been moved from 
Central building to the front of Mar
garet Morrison college. The new fin
ish line will give the racers a down
hill straight-away for a whirlwind 
sprint at the end.
THE TELESCOPE
Sixth Campus Week.
As the SixLli Annual Campus Week 
approaches, wo all begin to get that 
same roving feeling. To the Graduate 
out in the world it means that down 
in his inner self, down In the reces
ses of his memory which he only 
taps occasionally, comes that longing 
to go back. Back to the old Campus 
where many days were passed1most
ly happy ones. Back and see your 
old cronies and pals. Of course they 
wont all be there, but every class 
will be well represented, and youll 
renew memories and bridge the gap 
again. As one Grad aptly put It, 
"Campus Week Bridges the gap from 
year to year and keeps thoge fond 
memories in mind.'' That is the real 
puurpose of the Annual Festivities 
and the benefit derived is directly 
proportional to the interest that each 
Graduate takes In it. Dont allow 
yourself to get In the rut. Keep up. 
Your meeting old timers will renew 
your pep and youll go back to work 
with more vigor and determination 
than before. Life is short to spend 
it all in work. Make arrangements 
today to be at Carnegie on May 14, 
15, and 16.
When You Arrive.
When you come on the Campus you 
will notice many changes, especially 
the reunion classes of 08, '09, '10, 
and those who have not been back 
recently. Hardly will you see a face 
you know, when you arrive, and 
everything has changed so much that 
you will be more or less confused at 
first. Of course the Committee knew 
thatthey kuow that a bunch of the 
Old Timers wouldnt know where 
to find the new gym or where the 
tunnel was put In, and a host of oth
er things. Of course you wouldnt if 
you havent Been the place for ump
teen years and they very thoughtfully 
have arranged a plan Lo remedy this 
difficulty. They have provided es
corts or service men who will assist 
in every way possible to help get you 
started.
Getting Fixed Up.
The first tiling you do upon arriv
ing on tho Campus proper is to. go 
to the registering bureau and regis
ter, and to get your tag. Then if you 
want to see the old place againlook 
around. It is all yours. If you are 
not quite sure where to find what 
you are hunting, ask tho Service 
Mon,
If you arrive on Thursday in time 
for the Vaudeville Show, which al
ways kicks the lid off Campus Weolc 
wllh a bang and releases the spirits 
which reign for three full days, come 
to tho Chrnogle Music Hall at 10:30. 
That afternoon you will see the tra
ditional burial of Oid Man P. R.
On Friday tennis matches will be 
played, the sweepstakes run, there 
will also be a track meet. In the eve
ning is the Mardi Gras. Then on 
Saturday is the biggest day. Begin
ning in the morning is the Alumni 
Swim which hold a keen interest for 
every one. In the afternoon comes 
the Alumni banquet, girls banquet, 
and Country Fair. The Alumni Ban
quet will bo at the William Penn 
at 1:00 o clock, and transportation 
will be available for those who want 
to make the trip. On returning the 
Alumni have an opportunity to take 
part in Campus Week by forming in 
j a par.ade at Forbes and Morewood 
and parading across the cut to the 
Country Fair which will be in full 
swing by the time the banqueters 
arrive.
The Climax.
The crowning Climax of the flay 
and week will be found in the pre
sentation of the Animal in the form 
of a musical comedy at the Syria 
Mosque. The Drama Department is 
hard at work in rehearsing the play 
and if the censor is fair in his cri
ticism the play will go over big.
Campus Week Improvements.
Following last Campus Week a 
number of letters were received from 
Alumni in answer to a questionnaire 
sent out from the Alumni office in 
which a number of useful sugges
tions were made and some of which 
have been adopted in an attempt to 
improve on last year's program.
The most criticism centered about 
Mardi Gras. This was not because 
it was thought to be unsuccessful but 
to make a good number better. Many 
Alumni pleaded for more room in 
which to dance stating that the crowd 
was beyond accommodations. Oth
ers felt that at a definite time, say
10 o'clock, a plfice should be desig
nated where Alumni only should 
meet. This no doubt would be an ex
cellent plan if properly advertised.
MoBt all the criticisms agree that 
the Mardi Gras should be for Carne
gie men and women only. Some even 
thought it should be limited to alum
ni which is a somewhat narrow view 
to take. For Carnegie men and wo
men only is the unanimous opinion 
among students and graduates and 
every effort possible is being made 
ibis year to limit It to Carnegie peo
ple and their immediate friends.
Another event which was criti
cized and which has boon remedied 
is the crowning of thq .Campus, 
Queen. Tills prottlly arranged event 
will bo part of the opening program 
during tho vaudeville show on rl bin'sday. Among the other suggestions 
were got more Alumni baclj. **RoACTS CHOSEN FOR
VAUDEVILLE SHOW
(Continued From Page One.) 
rowed yet; but-he will wear one. Matt 
Frey is the accomplice.
The first act will show some Science ! 
stag graduates in a musical comedy 
revue, called No, No, Brownie!" pro
duced by Theta Tau. This ornery so 
ciety thought it had enough talent to 
put on a George White show with 
chorus In full bloom. Tho piece loans 
much toward comedy In unexpected 
places; but as the members did not 
write It, themselves, It. will probably 
bo allowed to finish. Tho music Is 
borrowed. Only tho steps nro orig
inal. You cant mistake thorn.
Haldon and Albright will bo funny 
in act two. They will crack all tho 
jokes which Puppot has not aoon fit 
to print this yoar. If those are well 
rocolvod (they will be) tho comedians 
will try some original dialogue.
Act three will bo all sweetness and 
music. Ida Waldron and Imelda Rlnkenbergor will play a violin duet and 
sing in a colonial setting. Eva Spen
cer will come forth to help with the 
singing. The first two will then quit 
while Eva sings a solo.
Warren Kimball and feminine asso
ciates will display some exotic and 
stimulating dances in act four. The 
scene opens with the traveler, Kim
ball, back home after a European trip, 
dreaming of the girls with whom he
has danced. Spectators who are a 
little weak on mental tolopathy will 
be relieved to see tho girls actually 
appear and tho dancoB enacted oil tho 
stage. 1 tuth Aston will bo tho partner 
in tho Bohemian dance; Zabollo Da
vies, la tho apaoho; Ann Lurla, In tho 
Spanish, and Virginia Peterson, In the 
American. Those exhibitions nro war
ranted lo make a lame man throw 
away hlw crutches. Those carrying 
crutches will ploaso, not sit in the bal
cony. Durbin Horner will sing tho 
story which accompanies the dances.
Herb Poloslo, Balaams pal, will 
tickle the visibilities of his hearers in 
act the fifth. Herb is pretty good at. 
this sort of thing, as those who have 
talked to him must admit. He will 
say a fow things about Campus Week 
that have never been said before and 
probably wont be said again. Those 
caught taking notes will be expelled.
Act six. will bring on the famous 
collection of jazz hounds from the 
Olympic theater, as snappy a bunch 
of syncopators as ever made one false 
note sound like two good ones. Most 
of the students have heard them on 
their own back porch. For those who 
have not, well asseverate to the cross
eyed cosmos that they are the twelve 
hottest sax and banjo fiends that 
ever ragged the scale.
U. P. Egizi is director of the organ
ization, which is. by the way,- an ex
clusive Cameo Recording Orchestra. 
Two of the members who will be 
featured are Ed Hunger, banjo play
er and vocalist, and Jimmy Muir, saxaphono artist and eccentric dancer. 
They are both well-known soloists.
In act seven Carol Ruby will strut 
as a Creole fashion plate. This act 
was uncovered by a couple of Yoders 
scouts, who immediately signed up 
the star at tho regular rates.
Act eight will toll the lovo story of 
a gypsy and Ills mate. There will be 
no spokon linos. Tho acting will all 
bo in pantomime, intoraporsod with 
singing and dancing. Klzzio Murdock 
and 12d Nowman will boar tho vocal 
ond, whllo Zabollo Davies and Warreu 
Kimball will ongago in tho catch-ascatch-can soufilo. Tho act has never 
boon producod bofpro except in Birm
ingham, where Borfiard Szold, holder 
of tho school 4*10 rocord, Is director, 
and the committee met with a lot of 
difficulty in getting the music. Caro
line Gray, who plays the accompani
ment for tho act, has arranged the 
music for one of the songs.
Tho committee in charge of the 
vaudeville is composed of Lloyd Yo
der, chairman; Philip Thorne, A1 
Johnson, Ben Weinblatt and Harry 
Mervls. The stage manager is Charles 
Sclilessinger; the costumiere, Dorothy 
Weber, and the business manager, 
Jack Harris.
Mens Swim to Feature 
Sat. Morning Program
Work Up Appetite in Chem
ically Pure Water in Pool
Tho success of last years men's 
alumni swim, which was taken ad
vantage of by one hundred to a 
hundred and fifty alumni, has insured 
the placing of a second swim in the 
schedule of events for Campus Week 
this year. Opportunity will be given 
the alumni men to inspect the new 
gymnasium and try out the pool'from 
10:30 a. m. till noon Saturday morn
ing, May 16.
A capital chance to relieve that 
tired feeling after the Mardi Gras! 
Any alumnus has only to present him
self at the pool and he will be pre
sented with a ducking in thie clear
est, most sparkling water in Penn
sylvania. The pool itself is seventyfive feet long and thirty-five feet 
wide, ranging in depth from four to 
nine feet- The one hundred and 
thirty thousand gallons of water in 
the pool is constantly being filtered. 
Bacteriological tests are made daily, 
nothing being overlooked in safe
guarding the patrons health.
With the possible exception of last 
years graduating class, the half mil
lion dollar gym was an unfulfilled 
dream to Carnegiealumni while they 
were in school. Only those who were 
in the pool last Campus Week know 
the gymnasium as a reality. More 
alumni are expected to use the op
portunity for a swim this year.
TROPHY TO BE AWARDED
BY COUNTRY FAIR COMM.
Among the other innovations which 
have boon added- to the Country Fair 
is the cup which will bo offered to 
the organization presenting the most 
original and the most popular stunts.
Any recognized organization or any 
of tho departmonts will be allowed 
to compote for it. Judges will be ap
pointed who will select tho winning 
stunt and award the cup.
Now all of you Uvo-wire fraterni
ties, clubs, and associations or dor
mitories get busy and try to add the 
first Country Fair Cup to your trophy 
case. This gives an excellent oppor 
tunity to capitalize any of your tal
ent and bring honor to your organ
ization.
How to Remove Shellac
Washing with denatured alcohol will 
dUisolve shellac so that it may bp wiped 
off easily. Varnish remover and simi
lar Ho'ild! do not dissolve shellnr
member the Circus, and provide stu
dent escorts.
In another column will be found 
some of the letters received. Tiiese 
letters were not only interesting but 
very helpful to the planning commit
tee.
The Country Fair.
Last year was the first attempt at 
the Country Fair which was to re
place the circus used annually up to 
that time. The Fair was considered 
such a good number that the plans 
have been greatly elaborated upon 
and beginning this year the Country 
Fair takes a definite place on the C. 
W. program.
Unless weather conditions are very 
favorable, it will be staged on the 
cut. This position will put it more 
in the center of the campus, allow 
more room, and give more of a C. 
W. atmosphere to the event.
Booths will be arranged along the 
cinder path where the artists will 
sell their wares, tell your fortune, 
or do their stunt. While it is not 
known yet just what variety of stunts 
are being prepared. It is known that 
a number of the fraternities are 
planning to compete for the cup. Sev
eral of the campus organizations and 
some of the departments have al
ready laid plans to make the com
petition more keen. The cup is to 
be offered to the most original and 
most popular stunt. Judges will be 
appointed to select the best stunt 
from the point of originality and its 
popularity and will award it to the 
winners on this basis.
Free sample booths will be set up 
by different companies and the prob
abilities are that their supply will 
be insufficient to last all afternoon 
so it will be very important for the 
Alumni to return as soon as possible 
so as not to miss these treats. Last 
year while the samples lasted they 
were about the most popular places 
of all.
Domestic animals will lend color to 
the event. The burlesquers will be 
on the job to liven up affairs with 
(heir wit. In fact everything pos
sible is being done to make this 
Country Fair a howling success. The 
Alumni should arrive from the ban
quet just when it gets in full swing 
and. see it at its height.
Get Reservations.
All Alumni who plan on returning 
for all,or part of Campus Week should 
make their arrangements early. 
Write a letter to Tillie for your reser
vations at the show and avoid any 
hitch after your arrival. Look over 
the roster of the classes in reunion 
and see who all you know, if you are 
one of the classes. Get in touch 
with your old pals and meet them on 
the Campus at C. W.
'GRADS. REUNION Big Program For 
WILL FEATUREAlumnionLastDay 
CAMPUS WEEKEve"rA""fda Good Appetite For 
Alumni Banquet
Alumni to be Brought 
To the Fair in Busses
To be Transported From Ho
tel Following Luncheon
Graduates of Early Classes 
Urged to Get in Touch With 
Classmates and Arrange to 
SeeEachOtherMayl4-15-l6
ADDRESSES ON-ROSTER
It is intended to have the alumni 
take luncheon at the William Penn 
Hotel ati 12:45 -Saturday, May 16, of 
Campus Week. Immediately after 
this, they will be brought out to the 
Country Fair in busses. By the use 
of these the alumni may be saved a 
lot of trouble and expense. When 
they arrive at the grounds, they will ! 
form in line and enter in a body,; 
each class being kept together as 
much as possible.
Last year the fair was just an inno
vation and as such proved to be a 
popular addition to the other activi
ties of Campus Week. This year it 
will become a fixture as a means of 
brigning the alumni together. 'After 
all, this is the principal purpose <of 
the whole event. Plans are now un
der way to have some of the alumni 
give stunts and thus give added in
terest to the affair.
Some of the other interesting at
tractions of the Fair will be the 
Fraternity and Departmental stunts,: 
animalsboth novel and absurd, and 
novelty stuntseither pleasing or al-' 
luring. Souvenirs will be given to 
those present and it is probable that 
they will be useful as well as beau
tiful. An amplifying telephone sys
tem will direct the large crowds if 
present plans culminate, and every 
preparation is being made to handle 
the mob in the best manner possible.
Efforts are being made to obtain 
Eve Hughes and his band for the af
fair. Those present at the fair last 
year will remember this band dressed 
as Turks. Much was added to the 
pieturesquoness of the scene by their 
presence.
Imagine tho blare of the band, tho 
cries of loathor-lunged announcers, 
the bellows of cattle mixed with 
grunts of tho sleelc porlcers and the 
neighs of horses, and tho confusion 
caused by laughter and talking and 
an idea of what the Country Fair is 
like may be had. Add to this a chance 
meeting with an old chum who has 
not been around for many years and 
the day will bo pronounced a success.
0oom For 0ent
| Suitable for one or two men. Private bath; available May 1. $25]
| for one, $35 for two.
CALL HAZEL 4517-R
Campus Week this year marks the 
beginning of a new era for class re
unions. This is to be the initial 
year of the group system of class re
unions. The new plan is to have a 
special or intensified reunion of four 
designated classesfour who were in 
school at once.
This- year the classes of 08, '09, 
'10 and '11 will be the classesthese 
being the first four classes who were 
in school all at one time. It was j 
thought only fitting to have them | 
Jiave the initial year of the new sys- j 
tem.
There will be a published roster j 
of the. classes in The Tartan of April 
28, which will include the name and 
address of each person in these four 
classes. This list will enable the 
various members to locate one an
other.
Th-3 Alumni Federation is doing all 
in its power to make the reunion the 
success which it should be. Every 
member of the four classes have re
ceived circular folders regarding the 
plans for Campus Week.
In addition to the above circular, 
individual members who are very ac
tive in alumni affairs of these four 
classes have sent out circulating let
ters to their fellow classmates 
each one of whom signs the letter if 
he intends to come for Campus Week, 
and sends it on to anotherthus 
everyone of the individual members 
will know who is going to. be here 
before-hand.
The former students of these four 
classes will wear a special mark of 
distinction during Campus Week, 
either by way of badge or dress; this 
should lend to the atmosphere of 
Campus Week and to the spirit of 
the occasion, besides enabling former 
friends to find one another.
In this connection it might be said 
that these four classes will have a 
special register, thus making it easy 
to look up the whereabouts of old 
classmates. The register will be a 
great improvement over other years, 
when all registered on one record. 
Then, too, special rooms will be set 
aside for these four classes to meet 
in, and separate tables will be re
served for them at certain hours at 
both the Grill and the Commons. 
They will thus1 have an opportunity 
for a pleasant chat or get-together 
without the least inconvenience.
In addition to the above, all classes 
.will have a reunion in the fullest 
sense of the word, in the form of the 
Alumni Luncheon on 'Saturday of 
Campus Week. Each class will have 
a special group of tables in order 
that former classmates may be to
gether. The various tables will bear 
numerals for each of the classes.
In connection with the CountyFair the various classes of former 
years will be represented in some 
way. Plans concerning this partici
pation as well as the Alumni Parade 
in which each class will march as a 
unit, will be announced at the Alum
ni Luncheon.
Remember, alumni of 08, '09. 10 
and '11 this is your year, and Campus 
Week this year will mean more to 
you than it ever before haswhich 
is saying muchDont miss it!
COUNTRY FAIR TO
HAVE NEW STUNTS
(Continued From Page One.} 
tories offer a fruitful ground for 
ideas.
Souvenirs, both useful and beauti
ful, will be bestowed. An amplify
ing telephone system to direct the 
large crowds is under consideration. 
This seems necessary due to the 
large number of attractions. A cap
tivating system of arranging the 
tents is to be carried out together 
with some ingenious general plan
ning.
To design, direct and carry out a 
venture of such magniture as the 
Country Fair, an able and active 
committee is necessary. The chair
man is F. M. McGee, with T. R. 
Allen, secretary. These men will 
devise the novelties and general af
fairs. Elizabeth Wright is the chair
man in charge of the girls activi
ties, which are numerous. J. M. 
1TMI is in control of the fraternity 
skits, while W. J. Kimmel will 
handle like affairs for the depart
ments. The animals are being se
cured and reconstructed by G. W. 
Sanner and F. M. Kalefant. C. J. 
Judd is to obtain the favors. J. N. 
Tillbrook and H. F. Peterson are to 
secure the tents and equipment of 
colorful and attractive designs.
Last year the Country Fair, an in
novation in the vast number of activ
ities of Campus Week, proved its 
worth and showed great potential 
possibilities. The idea was sold, and 
sold to an enthusiastic crowd. This 
year it iB a fixture as others have 
come to be. It will be one of the 
biggest events on the calendar and 
. its quality will prove its worth.
Alumni, up and going early Satuiday morning, May 16. Everything is 
set for you. Final arrangements havebeen made and now for your support 
and a visit to Carnegie Campus.
In the morning three events have 
been scheduledvariety enough to 
suit the most exacting. At 10:00 a. mt 
the girls will battle for honors on the 
volley ball court. At 10:30 a. m. the 
alumni will meet the Carnegie varsity 
tennis team. If all goes well, the 
alumni aggregation will have all the 
1920 tennis team, which is so welS 
remembered as a stellar outfit. Anc5 
afterward, tiring' of tennis and desir
ing to work up an appetite for the_ 
alumni luncheon, the alumni may trip 
a light fantastic to the new Gym 
and have a dip. This will give every
one a chance to see "the new Gym of 
which we are so proud. And who 
does not want to enjoy each morse? 
of the tasty luncheon which is to be 
served at 12:45 at the William Penn 
Hotel?
Each and every alumnus wants to 
meet and renew the friendships that 
he made while in school. Tables will 
be grouped in such a way at the 
luncheon as to enable all alumni of 
the various classes to chat and enjoy 
each moment. The alumni committee 
has planned this luncheon so that 
there will be no long expositions by 
speakers, but only a few short, snappy 
talks. Mr. Fred Cogsweil, a graduate 
of some years back, will.be in charge 
and will see that all goes well.
And then what alumni? If you wilS 
be so kind as to take the elevators to 
the ground floor you will find waiting 
for you busses to carry you direct to 
the Country Fair. At the Country 
Fair you will see Hiram arid learn 
what kind of farming he is doing, or 
And out from Joel just how his crop 
of winter wheat was. They all are 
going to be there, so plan to be back 
with the grads from 08, 09, 10, 13.
AND MAKE THE 6 C. W. A HOWL
ING SUCCESS.
MANY INQUIRIES INDICATE 
RECORD ENROLLMENT FOR
SUMMER SESSION
(Continued From Page One.) 
the guest instructors, are the ap
pointments of Dr. Will Earliart. Di
rector of Music of the Pittsburgh 
Public schools, who will give a spe
cial series of lectures for teachers 
of public school music, and C. Valen
tine Kirby, Director of Art for the 
State of Pennsylvania, 'who will give 
a special course of lectures in con
nection with the courses in fine and 
applied art.
In addition to the courses on the 
campus, the College of Fine Arts will 
give several courses in art and music 
at the University of Pittsburgh. These 
are intended primarily for teachers 
and the major portion of whose work 
is in non-technical fields.
The courses for undergraduates wil? 
in most cases, duplicate work given 
during either semester of the regu
lar college year and are offered pri
marily for prospective freshmen stu
dents or undergraduates of Carnegie 
and other institutions who wish to re
move conditions. Courses in this 
group will be given in the College 
of Engineering, the College of Indus
tries, and the Department of Archi
tecture, and the Division of General 
Studies.
The swimming pool of the gym
nasium will be open to the members 
of the summer courses this year. In 
addition, a program of other recrea
tional features is being planned to 
include picnics, excursions, popular 
lectures, inspection trips to industrial 
plants, and dances.
LEARN TO DANCE 
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
The Fraternity of 
Business
Begin now to form tho associatlona 
nnd habits that will servo you when 
you enter tho business world. A 
hank account, aside from tho tangible value, furnishes experienc 
and contacts which will operate to 
your advantaga in later years.
The personal interest of Mellon of
ficers in the financial welfare of depositors is one of tho outstanding characteristics of tho institu
tion. Our experience and business judgment aro at your Bervice.
Capital and Surplus 12,000,000.00
-Mellon National Bank

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
ALUMNI PAGE
V/
Alumni Parade to Oounrty Fair
Many Grads 0eply 
To QuestionaireAlumni! You ShouldALUMNI URGED TO ORDER 
SHOW TICKETS AT ONCE
Letters Received Show Keen 
Interest of Alumni 
In Better C. W.
In answer to a questionaire sent out 
Bast year by the alumni office, a bunch 
of letters were received. In them 
many helpful suggestions and criti
cisms were offered. Below are print
ed a few of the letters picked out at 
random.
The spirit of them was to make a 
(better Campus Week for everybody. 
Many of the suggestions were helpful 
to the planning committee.
Dear Tilly:
My chief impression of Campus 
Week was simply this: Too many
outsiders.
The eventsthose of them that I 
was able to attendwere all fine, and 
the. whole affair was managed better 
than ever before. But somehow or 
other its getting too big, too mechan
ical. Of course I realize that to have 
it big, the mechanism must run well; 
tout perhaps I have a small-town mind, 
for the prize Campus Week, to me, 
was the first, when everything ran 
sort of haphazard, but when every
body seemed to know everybody else, 
and we all had an uproarious time.
This years events seemed to lack 
that spontanietybut for heavens 
sake dont ask me why. I frankly ad
mit I dont know. I was perfectly 
willing to have a good time, but very 
few others seemed to want to join in, 
particularly the students. Are they 
getting too dignified to help the old 
baldheads celebarte? Why, when 
Lindy, Shauby, Dorny and I perched 
on the terrace and rooted for the 
alumni tennis team, the crowd looked 
at us as though we were pickled! How 
different from the time when we mob
bed the umpire, that noble Bulgarian, 
Fuzzy Eyman!
And did you notice the scarcity of 
class yells at the alumni luncheon? 
Perhaps that was because the tables 
were too widely separated. Next time 
crowd em down close to the stage, 
so that the waiters have to step on 
their own feet to get through. Maybe 
that will help.
As for the Mardi Grastoo crowd
ed. Dancing in either place was pos
itively uncomfortable, and the decora
tions in Langley were hung so low as 
to make the room very stuffy. In the 
gym, the music was almost inaudible 
at the far end of the hall. A plat
form in the center for the musicians 
would help the acoustics. Ditto for 
Langley. Next year, I believe, that 
one of these three things should be 
done:
FirstLimit admittance to the Mar
di Gras to special ticket holders, 
same as the Arts Ball; such tickets 
to be issued by your office only, and 
issued only to registered students and 
paid-up alumni. Also, issue but two 
ticketsor better still, one ticket ad
mitting one coupleto any such per
son. If he sells them or gives them 
away, he stays away from the Mardi 
Gras himself.
SecondHave four dancing places 
instead of two, to relieve the conges
tion : Gym, Langley, Arts Foyer and 
Union. ^
ThirdReserve one dance floor for 
alumni only, so that we wont have to 
dig through a mass of students and 
outsiders to locate a couple of oldtimers.
The above comments are not made 
in a spirit of crabbiness. They are 
simply a record of my unfavorable 
impressions of Campus Week, with a 
few suggestions as to possible im
provements. My favorable comments 
would take too long to write about.
Altogether, I think you and your 
committees deserve a great deal of 
credit for the way you put things 
across. I can imagine how hard you 
worked, and if in the future I can 
do anything to make it easier for you, 
count me in.
Fraternally yours,
LOUGE.
I. Return your order card at once.
The committees in charge of 
tickets will have them on sale only 
until Monday, May 11, at 5:00 P. 
M. At that time all unsold theater 
tickets and Campus Week tags 
will be turned in. The guarantee 
as to the number of plates for the 
Alumni Luncheon will also be 
made to the hotel.
Now dont you see immediately 
where quick action on your part 
will help the committee*:
II. Get in touch with your old Car
negie friends and classmates and 
see that they meet for the sixth 
Campus Week.
OS, 09, 10 and 11 reune ac
cording to the Dix Plan and should 
be out in force.
If you are a member of these 
classes you have received an ad
dress roster of these classes. Write 
some letters at once. Arrange for 
some distinctive class dress or in
signia.
III. Register at Alumni Headquart
ers.
Your first act official, legal or 
otherwise should be to register at 
Alumni Headquarters and get a 
"last minute program and all the 
dope. Show the faculty, admin
istration, and General Campus
Week Committee that you are on j 
the job and appreciate the oppor-! 
lunity of getting back to the j 
campus. Register because we want  
to show that at least 1,000 alumni i 
have been back ready to support j 
the future of Carnegie.
IV. Register because your friends 
will want to see you and must 
know where to get in touch with 
you in Pittsburgh.
V. Have some sort of fancy dress" 
or old clothes along to attend the 
Mardi Gras. Positively no admit
tance to anyone not in costume.
VI. Come May 14 for the first event
the Vaudeville Show in the Carne
gie Music Hall at 10:30 A. M., and 
do not leave until after the filusical Comedy in the Syria Mosque 
on Saturday night.
But because you can't get here 
Thursday or even Friday, aturday 
itself is enough to gring you back. 
Come.
VII. Make it your business to see 
your old friends on the faculty and 
administration.
VIII. You should see the Carnegie 
(lnn, the new Gym and try out the 
Swimming Pool.
Notice the other changes in
buildings and campus.
COME.
} CLAN NEWS j
On April 4th a special meeting of 
the Tulsa Carnegie Clan was called at 
the home of Gertrude Hartman McEwan to welcome to our midst Mr. R. 
(Hicks) Walton, sales manager of the 
Wilson-Snyder Manufacturing Com
pany of Pittsburgh, Pa.
The clan was delighted to have the 
opportunity of a visit from an alumni 
who is so cloaely allied with Carnegie. 
We hope to have profited by his mes
sage and through him return greet
ings to our Alma Mater.
CLEF CLUB WILL HOLD
DANCE IN UNION MAY 9
My Dear Tilbrook:
Since the first time I saw the Mardi 
Gras two years ago I have been an
Many people are wise on radio mat
ters, yet do not know why their foun
tain pen leaks, or that they can 
purchase one that will give entire 
satisfaction at the Jenkins Arcade 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop.
Smiles iit & bade at
C. M. STAFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists' and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
(Continued From Page One.)
novel. It is hoped that the hall will 
customary sight.
In the next is9ue of The Tartan, 
a description of the personnel of 
the Techsons will be given as two 
new players have been recently add
ed. It might be well to add that 
this is a Saturday evening dance, and 
all Carnegie is invited.
POOR FELLOW
He looks like he has lost his grip. 
He didwith four quarts in it.Mc
Gill Daily.
enthusiast. My impression that time 
was that of its spontaneous quality, so 
unlike most affairs in Pittsburgh. 
There seemed to be a pagan quality 
which we have lost in this country, 
which was caught for a few hours on 
the campus in 1922. At one time the 
Halloween masque on the Pittsburgh 
streets had some of the same spirit, 
but it was lost as the town spread 
out into several centers, and the po
lice tried to organize it.
My only suggestion would be to 
keep this spontaniety, and keep the 
faculty and trustees from interfering 
in details of which their stodgy years 
are no judge. By all means keep out 
rowdies somehow. Isnt the best way 
by keeping it so close to the student 
body that the spirit of the thing will 
be normally in good taste. If the of
fice starts to organize and police this 
affair, it will only be another one of 
those things.
I am not in favor of limiting attend
ance to alumni who are paid up. Let 
them come, both themselves and their 
friends, the latter to be personally in
troduced by an alumnus or student. I 
hope the weather will be better next 
year, so that the streets can be used 
for the overflow.
Best wishes for next year, and con
gratulations on the success of this 
years Campus Week. The faults did 
not stick out so as to at all noticeable 
to this alumnus, at any rate.
Yours, 
L. V. HUNTLEY.
Dear Tilly:
Campus Week was a real success 
in every way in my mind except pos
sibly one, and this one element has. 
to do entirely with the alumni. The 
students, faculty and your own end 
came through wonderfully.
The alumni were very poorly organ
ized in their own classes. The class 
officers ought to be worked on for 
months before Campus Week, so that 
they will ha^e class committees to 
take care of individual meetings and 
get-togethers that the classes may 
want. Letters ought to be sent out 
to all class members by the president 
of that class working up enthusiasm 
in those classes. Such special letters 
might be handled by your own office. 
If there is no real enthusiasm in the 
classes having reunions, or in the 
alumni body as a whole Campus Week 
has a great deal lacking. If class 
spirit wont waken them up to some 
extent, we are in a bad way.
As I see it ar. present, the alumni 
have fallen down individually and col
lectively as classes. It is reasonable 
to believe however that each year will 
show improvement.
Keep up the good work.
Yours,
TOM.
ARBORICULTURISTS
TRANSFORM CAMPUS
(Continued From Page One.) 
and Carnegie Inn, Japanese cherry 
trees, flowering crab-apple, giant 
silver bell, French lilac, white spiria, 
red honeysuckle, and the giant snowbell, to the number of twenty-one 
hundred and fifty-one pieces, will 
present a picturesque spring spec
tacle, and add color to the campus the 
year round.
The general scheme has been to 
plant trees in a wing-like effect, with 
appropriate flowering pieces beneath. 
The Arts school lawn is to be seed
ed next week, and should be fairly 
well carpeted by Campus Week. The 
trees and shrubs will not bloom to 
any great extent this year, but 
should show results next year, and 
attain their mature beauty by 1927.
All who are acquainted with the 
man supervising this work (he has, 
with extreme modesty, forbidden the 
publication of his nam6), his con
scientiousness, and his interest in the 
work, will accept without doubt his 
statement that there will be no hap
hazard planting or beautifying in the 
future. He expresses hope for a how 
appropriation in the near future to 
provide top-soil for the entire cam
pus which will assure a fine lawn, 
the only thing needed to give Car
negie an ideal environment.
BRILLIANT AND MAGNIFICENT 
CAMPUS WEEK DECORATIONS TO 
DAZZLE EYES OF SPECTATORS
(Continued from Page One.) 
bell and the faculty, standing smil
ingly (if our sculptors can sculp 
from imagination), with open arms, 
ready to receive anything that may 
come their way, might be appropri
ate, not to say indiscreet; or doar 
Patron Andrew, completely outfitted 
with a hazy, dazed, amazed, expres
sion, might gaze on the festivities, 
perhaps with an inscriptive word of 
praise.
Banners, streamers, and gonfalons
Any alumnus who has not yet 
made his reservations for the 
Campus Week musical comedy, "Collegiately Speaking is strongly urged 
to do so at once, for the show is ri
valed in chorus, music, acting, hu
mor and beauty onlp by George 
Whites Scandals as it was before 
the Pittsburgh" cops put the lumpers 
on it. Arrangements have been 
made with Officers Casey and 
OBrien which will prevent such disacter occurring to the Campus Week 
show.
Collegiately Speaking will be the 
first attempt at the production of a 
musical comedy as a part of Campus 
Week. The comedy was written by 
Don Gardner and Fred Simth. The 
inimitable Obie is cast for the lead, 
supported by Ann Luria. The pro
duction is under the direction of 
Hubert Osborne, author of the highly 
successful Campus Week show of last 
year, The Blue Bandana. The fact 
that Mr. Osborne is directing is it
self a recommendation for Collegitely Speaking.
The best seats in Syria Mosque 
have been reserved for the alumni. 
Mr. Tilbrook guarantees that the 
show can be viewed to advantage 
from any of these seats. The sched
ule of prices may be found elsewhere 
on this page. Reservations should 
be made before May 11 as the sale 
of musical comedy tickets, Campus 
Week tags and luncheon tickets 
closes on that day. When it is con
sidered that there are over six thou
sand Carnegie students and grads, 
a large percentage of whom will de
sire tickets for themselves and their 
friends, the advisability om immedi
ate action is apparent.
will gaily flourish from all accessible 
points on the buildings. The stu
dents are asked to suppress their 
emotions as much as posible when 
the epidemic of human flies and pros
pective suicides breaks out. Tho or
ganist will stay at his pipes through
out this periodfeaturing tho con
tinuous chapel to be held in Arts 
Theater. The authorities hope to 
prevent a panic.
The Design School windows are to 
be covored with vari colored tissue, 
and illuminated from within. In this 
way, Arts will bo so disguised as to 
allevlnte tho chance of over-powering 
memories on the part of the alumni. 
Many may leave as flno in all ways 
as they were when they came.
Of course, many minor details 
have been omitted In this outline of 
campus decorations ' the girls 
sweepstakes, for example. The above 
will give an Indication of tho qual
ity of Campus Week that may be ex
pected. The facilities for a super
latively hilarious celebration will bo 
provided. Do you think wo will 
make tho most of them?
STUDENTS BALLOT THURSDAY 
TO REDUCE 15 CAMPUS 
QUEEN CANDIDATES TO THREE
(Continuod from Page Ono.) 
get posted. The slogan Is, V for 
Votes of all, O for the Only ono, 
Our Queen, T for the thought on 
oach selection, and E for Ilie Elec
tion, the biggest event in Pre-Campus 
Week activities.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
ao Tickets to be 
Sold at Mardi Gras
Tickets and Costumes Are 
Required of All Who 
Attend Mardi Gras
There is one social function of all 
the school year which stands out 
above the rest. It is the Mari Gras. 
The unrestrained spirit of frivolity 
which pervades the atmosphere 
gives a strangely alluring effect 
which makes it impossible to stay 
away. With myriads of flashing col
ors gliding about and tiny beams of 
light dancing over all, one canuot 
help but enter into the spirit of joy
ousness and laughter, and abandon 
himself to the dance.
If it were not for the alumni, j 
there would not be any Mardi Gras. 
Six years ago Campus Week was in
augurated to give the alumni an op
portunity to once again get in touch 
with -school life and to meet all of 
their old profs and classmates. All 
of the events on tho 'program are in
tended for this purpose. To be suc
cessful, they require alumni co-oper
ation. In order for Campus Week to 
become a recognized institution of 
Carnogie, It must be wholeheartedly 
supported by the alumni who must 
turn out on masse to show that they 
appreciate the efforts expended In 
their behalf.
A request which Is being made of | 
them this year is that they all come 
to the Mardi Gras and that they all 
wear costumes. To make It a real, 
live Mardi Gras, everyone must 
wear costumes. There Is a certain 
spirit ovidont at such an affair that 
is not attained in any other way. 
If just a few neglect to do this, the 
whole effect Is lost and there Is a 
decided dampening of spirits. In 
fact, tho committee has made the 
statement that no one will he per
mitted lo ontor tho Mardi Gras un
less ho is costumed. This Is definite 
and will bo rigidly adhored to.
Another feature of the Mardi Gras 
to which the attention of the alumnii 
is called Is tho fact that everyone 
will havo to have a ticket to go* in. 
No ono will bo able to buy a ticket 
at the door. Tho object of this can 
readily be soon. It will be Impos
sible for anyone except Carnogie 
men and women to got tickets; and 
all undoslrablos will bo effectively 
kept out. It Is quite necossary, 
thou, that alumni send their orders 
for tags ns soon as possible, for If 
they dont havo them, some disap
pointed people will havft to bo turn
ed away from tho Mardi Gras.
DRAMA DEPT. PRESENTS
SHAKESPEAREAN PLAY
(Continued From Pago One.) 
Thoro will bo a matinee on Friday 
and also on Saturday afternoon. The 
Friday matinoo begins at 15:00 p. in., 
and no tickots are requlrod. This 
should give everyone a chance to see 
tho play.
J* > *2* *2* *2* 1* *2* .j* .j. .
*
* 'LUMNI LYRICS
J* --------- 
*2* L. l>. Allshouse.* _____.
* Get in the Swim.
?2* Theres a ringing, tingling,  
v singing atmosphere around us 
2* now, *
v And a tilting, lilting manner in  
v \ each Sophomore I vow;
2- There's a smashing, crashing, * 
*2* clashing as they decorate with 
*2- vim 
v For Campus Week is coming. 
*2* Aw, come onget in the swim. 
2* For the Plobes will soon be  
J* qualified, a now link in the  
J* chaiu,
* As Carnegies sons and daugh- *
2* tors pledge allegiance again; 
v And their pulses all will quick2* onlittle shivers shake each 
I* limb ^ 
For Campus Week is coming. 
** Aw, come ongot in the swim. 
I- Theros a happy, snappy dapper2* ness about each undergrad
v And a lightness and a brightness  
*2* in the Hashing of the plaid. 
2* Thores a cheery, never weary,  
v. gaioty that makes eyes dim 
2* For Campus Week Is coining. 
v Aw, como onfeet in the swim. 
Eleventh Commndmnt.
Answering a question as to the re
ligious significance of the wo rn lied 
Eleventh Commandment, ?? render 
ntntos that the answer is found in the 
book of John 18:34, In which Jesus 
said: A new commandment I <lvo 
unto you. that yon lovo ow* fi'notlier.
Alumni! Final Campus Week Dope
Campus Week Tags............................$1.00 each
Alumni Luncheon Tickets................$2.00 each
Musical Comedy Tickets (SyriaMosque)
1st Floor Tickets............................. $1.75each
1st Five RowsFirst Balcony . . .. $1.75each
RemainderFirst Balcony ..... $1.50each
1st Five RowsSecond Balcony . .. $1.50each
Dormitory Rooms (Men or Women) ..50night
Important Notice!
No order will be valid or accepted unless
a. Self-addressed, stamped envelope is enclosed 
with order.
b. Made before May 11, 1925.
c. Checks and money orders are made payable 
to G. L. Tilbrook, Treasurer.
Please Help the Committee by Ordering AT ONCE!
2* And alumni and alumnae with 
2* their better halves and worso *2* 
?2* Will create Carnegie spirit too 5* 
I* profound for faltering verse *2* 
2* As they 1111 the cup of happiness *! 
2* till It oerfiows tho brim *2*
 For Campus Weok is coming. *
Aw, come ongot in the swim. *
2* Hear the drumming tum-ti-tum- *2* 
2* ming of the kilties on parade. *
Soo tho winning sort of grinning *
that puro luipinoss has made. 2* 
v And tho colorsay, whats duller * 
2* than to find llfo always grim? v 
2 But Campus Week Is coming, *2*
2* aw, como onget in tho swim.
j*
All the Seniors strolling staidly 
I* cross tho cut and down the 
! walk
2* And tho offorvoscont Juniors
* laughing loudly as they walk, *2* 
J* Oh, oach one has written somo *2* 
2* alumnus Just to say to him
! Say, Campus Week Is coming. *2 
Aw. como on  get In tho 
J* swim." *
iS'oo tho dancing and the prune- *, 
I* lug of a thousand happy foot *! 
As they clutter and thoy patter 
seeking oldtlmo friends to 
2* groct. .}.
! Thoro' ft rounding joy abound- *.* 
1* lug for a docoratlvo trim 
2* When Campus Week Is coming.
J* Aw, come ongot In the swim.
*
Oldtlmp classes rounltlng In a 
1* bond of fellowship
I* As tho songs of fair Carnoglo *5* 
2* linger long upon oach lip 2*
J* Of tho stalwart sons returning *f* 
! and tho Magglo Murphs no *2* 
prim:* Yes, Campus Weok is coming.
2* Aw, como on-got In the swim.
*2* Damsels dainty, quaintly, saintly, *2* 
2* will with statoly, courtly
*2* mlon,
*2* Shyly glancing as theyre danc- * 
2- Ing, wait upon a new-crownod *2*
2* queen .j.
v Midst tho flaring and tho blaring * 
*2* of the trumpets In tho gym - *2*
2* Yes, Campus Weok is coming.
2- Aw, come onget in the riwim. *
2* Happy moments without number. *
* Thores the Mardi Gras for *
2* sure,
v And each other pretty party
* holds its own distinctive lure. *2-
*2* Pack your bags and start travel- * 
*2* ingagitate each lower limb
*2* For Campus Week is coming. * 
*2* Aw, come onget in the swim. *2
* * 
*2' * * *2" ? ? *2- *2* *2* * *2* *2* *2* * *2* * *
WOMENS BANQUE! HELD 
CARNEGIE INN MAY 16
The womens banquet for both 
present, students and Alumnae will 
be held in the Carnegie Inn on Fri
day, the sixteenth of May, at S 
oclock.
The speochos will be short and 
snappy, and everything will go off 
is a spirited manner. Some wouderful entertainment is promised by 
the committee, and a good tiuio will 
he had by all. A delightful meal 
will be served for the nominal cliarga 
of $1.50, and a large crowd is ex
pected.
As only two hundred can bo ac
commodated, reservations should be 
made immediately. Last year therewas a large overflow of those who 
had not made reservations and could 
not get. It will be wise to attend 
to this matter at once, and not be 
among the disappointed ones.
Grace Munhall is\chairman of thecominitteo. and Eleanor Reismeyef 
is the Alumnae representative.
Y. W. CABINET ASKS
FOR GIRLS OPINIONS
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
other studonts if the Y. W. is to be 
a vital factor in campus life. If itis neither needed nor wanted by the 
girls of Carnegie, the executive body 
is also wasting its time.
Does the "Big and Littlo Sister" 
movomont mean anything to thosa> 
who have come liore as Freshmen, 
and will it mean anything to thoao 
Freshmen who will como in future 
years? Can the Y. W.s scholarship 
be eliminated without denying somo 
girl the opportunity of high educa
tion. In other words, is the Young' 
Womens Christian Association neces
sary at Carnoglo Tech?
Tho last regular mooting or the Y.- 
W. C. A. will be held Wednesday at 
noon. Thoro will be open ^llscusslonand tho members are urged to ex
press thomsolvos, both positively and 
nogatlvoly. It Is to bo hoped that 
some dofinlto doclslon rogardlng tho* 
work for noxt year will be roached 
heforo tho new cabinet comos Into* 
office.
The College 
Shop
4618/2 FORBES STREET
Above Craig
SlflE Mill FOR CAMPUS 
WIDBK TOYS
ED" TAYLOR
A High Class Home
han avallablo a suite of two 
large airy and beautifully furnlahod roomu with private bath, 
uultablo for ono or two gentlemon; alno one largo and beauti
fully furnished front room with 
bathsituated noar Roup and 
throo otroct car linen. Address 
370 South Negley Avenue, Pitts
burgh.
I Oakland Savings &
I Trust Co.i
Member Federal Reserv*
! System.
*{ Capital.......................$300,000.00
X Surplus......................$300,000.00
--------~ $5,000,000.00 
!
Deposits, Over - -
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXE8 
FOR RENT
| UNIVERSITY INN C0AuG, aEA0 CEaTE0 Ii
us now open for faculty and students.
OUR SERVICE TOLL PLEASE YOU 
Please Give s a Trial (
ALUMNI
HE0ES Y-0 CHAaCE 
T- GET aEXT YEA0S 
auaE BuG uSSES
------------ of the ------------
PPPET
Carnegies Humorous Monthly
Fill In this blank
Carnegie Tech Puppet,
8chcnley Park,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Hay There:
You're darn tootin I want my nine Puppets next year. 
Heres your two bucks,
Namo1,1. . . >mg.ni)r>w<  . . .
Hangout......................... ... .............................................

---------------------------------------------------

^gossBAoessadtssisa
PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1925
TARTAN PICTORIAL SECTION
Scenes From a Former C. WLast Years Campus Week Queen Candidates
DY6D
DON. BLYTHE 
Baseball Coach
CROWNING OF THE 
QUEEN
Top row, left to rightMary Heilig, Victoria Weedy, Louise Porter, Blair Jessup, Marjory Cook, Miriam Bond, 
Adah Borgerding. Bottom rowJo Gibson, Eleanor Mecklenberg, Gretchen Hoffman, 
Helen B. Johnson, Rosalyn ScotLTC IN TER- PRATER N ITV 
H005E PANCC OPENS? 
TMF FESTWE ia>EAK
A View or rHC 0i6 
PPMION SAlTZ. House 
0URIM6 Ml i HAT 10 N
Mr/ar c**c rut. xxreotAn'**' rt/a jr/V/t.oN%
/tHT/Nbf freer*ay rtm ru* oc*. 
rtrim*fv A,*IN a
VAUOVJILLE 
SHOvJ WHERE 
OPA MAT S AND 
OTHER LADIES >, 
PUT ON 5TUNTSJ 
[c RBAM INfity S 
PUNNV' \ STUFfJ 4
-AM PUS
CO/fNEC/fr /NST. or /Vfcxoto&y r.*Aieiuitv
PlUM
C^UAt-ir, CAD ON OR 
CALL PAV 
HoNONAfliE PtOk. 
THie* PICK*
Qu CMWe cootJTKy 
P4/&~ ^ritrae 
esotra, fieza ut 
so PH eme.
T//ts to y$ rxoM 
ae/er/CE FCEl."Ar Hune * 
*i4rctf/A/Of aff<oor tT.6> 
CLote up or P 
.Xsppvj 'r*-uo 
Pttfoau
 
NTCfi. I r<AT tiwcepsTCAKO
PHIL KASBACH 
General Chairman Campus Week
LLOYD YODER 
Chairman of Vaudeville Showwon h y u(.aok /sui o lui 
ttf'AK PIIHICN V M 
JCAALP t-IOff OP OCTA 
70W
AJ/JJ fMMA I Mure rue
MNN8K ACIS*-//v. r/vr 
rt-ure
WV/S 4AL~*xyc> r a*/>l/n 
ce MPC Ar Ar 3c.oor/N*. 
r//* 4c.er s&oTtht* r>/0 sfttr secor KectBvti 
A Mtfr os   u-r/ pv/. 
^Aume*t nure V/r>v
, fi Air p/r VfiGPM/n 
rw<r S rAftf.*-*
N!
L UNCf/EON
/Vxr
eatcu*
r* a/ 6* r i./6/*rs
Gunv on 7~*e 
Co+rOME 5 A/te 
Ai- f>o AJtcE----*
SfAA/MEP
COLLEGIATELY SPEAKING1
OH -THE. 
NEW OVl^
GIRLS KIDDY KAR R<e>CE
C,REEK r'toRfSTHl*
08.000,000 camole powert 
G.. SEAR.CHL1HT ON rO^CHiNE-F?^ HAUU TOWER 
'UrtR^T IN NN'OPLD
CARNEGIE MUSICAL CLUBS
