I I
 MAGGIE MURPHS WILL HOLD . j {
BENEFIT BRIDGE
 AT McCREERYS SATURDAY j 
i  tarmai! Ifotmi
MUSICAL CLUBS DANCE 
AT UNION NEXT
FRIDAY NIGHT
VOL. XVIII NO. 23CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 4, 1924
NEW EVENTS FOR 
S. C. W. PLANNED 
BY COMMITTEE
Sub-Committees Are Appoint
ed and Work on Separate 
Events is Started at Last 
Meeting
CONCESSIONS OPEN
Spring is, coming!
If you dont believe it, listen to this. 
The general Campus Week Committee 
has held two meetings, and. plans for 
the biggest events on the campus are 
already beginning to take form. The 
meetings so far have been confined 
to general discussion of events and 
policies, but the enthusiastic attitude 
of the members indicates that when 
the time comes for perfecting the de
tails of the different events, nothing 
will be overlooked.
Some of the events of last year will 
probably be eliminated, and new ones 
substituted. These new stunts are 
some which have never before been 
done on the campus, or in this part 
of the country, so far as is known and 
for that reason they should go over 
big.
Due to the fact that Miss Helen 
Johnson was unable to devote enough 
time to the work, the girls events this 
year will be in charge of Miss Mary 
Hellig. Miss Heilig has always been 
prominent in M. M. C. C. activities, 
and her part in the work is sure to be 
well done.
Applications for concessions for 
Campus Week should be made as soon 
as possible. The committee wants 
something to work on in this line, and 
for that reason anyone wishing to sell 
any one commodity on the 
campus should turn in his 
or her name to Ifoffer Sload as 
soon as possible. Specify what com(Continued on Page Four.) '
Dance by Honoraries 
To be Held March 24
Collegiate Imps Secured 
Furnish the Music
to
Plans for the annual Inter-Honorary 
Dance to be held in the Union are 
rapidly nearing completion, and as 
March 24th approaches, it has been 
found advisable to let out a "bit of in
formation which might jog a few dor
mant memories.
Arrangements have been made to 
have the Collegiate Imps furnish the 
music for the evening, and further 
than that, plans have been completed 
for suitable decorations of exquisite 
taste and beauty, which will give the 
occasion an atmosphere ofdistinction. 
No further attempt will be made to 
describe the decorations in detail, for 
to do so would be impossible; or on 
the other hand would eliminate some 
of the elements of suspense and sur
prise which are counted upon to make 
the occasion a success.
Inasmuch as the members of the 
honoraries on the campus this year 
are exceptionally active, there is lit
tle doubt that they will turn out in a 
body to attend their dance. The dance 
last year was a success, and no effort 
is spared in the endeavor to make the 
one this year even greater. Present 
indications show that this will be one 
of the most enjoyable informal dances 
of the year.
The following societies are eligible 
to attend, and tickets have been sent 
to their respective presidents for dis
tribution among their individual mem
bers: Dragon, Delta Skull, Alpha
Tau, Tau Beta Pi, Pi Delta Epsilon, 
Tau Sigma Delta, Mortar Board, Eta 
Kappa Nu, Theta Tau, Scarab Girls 
Publications, and Druids.
A committee of Druids composed of
C. E. West, chairman; Max Bastian, 
and B. J. Kristof are in charge of 
preparations.
ALPHA TAU INITIATES 
TWELVE NEW MEMBERS
Alpha Tau Honorary Fraternity ini
tiated twelve pledges last Wednesday 
evening at the Knights of Columbus 
Hall. The men initiated were pledged 
at the Industries Assembly, December 
18, just before the Christmas vacation.
Six Seniors and six Juniors were 
made the new members of the honor
ary. They are: The S'eniors, J. Da
vis, F. H. ICitchell, D. H. Gottwals, W.
D. Deeter, H. B. Lilley, and R. E. 
Glover; the Juniors, A. G. Darnall,
F. T. Phelps, F. E. Powers, A. H. Cass,
F. M. McGee, and J. C. Good.
A banquet followed the initiation at 
which time the new men were wel
comed into the organization.
CHANGE IN DATE OF THE
ALUMNAE BRIDGE PARTY
The M. M. Alumnae Association an
nounces that the date of the Annual 
Benefit Bridge and 500 party has 
been changed from April 19 to April 
26, one week later.
The affair will be held in MeCreerys Dining Room, and a commit
tee is now hard at work on the ar rangements. The Carnegie Tartan 
will contain announcements concern
ing those later on.
WHAT ABOUT WEDDING BELLS?
Musical Clubs' Dance to be 
Held in the Union, March 7
INFORMATION ON MORTAR
BOARD WAS INACCURATE
Wanna have a good time? Do you 
like a good dance with a peppy orch
estra? Do you feel like strutting 
your stuff? Then come to the next 
Musical Clubs dance in the Union. 
March 7. Ralph Harrisons cele
brated orchestra of Loew vaudeville 
fame, will furnish the inspiration. 
This is the first appearance of this 
orchestra on the Carnegie campus and 
they are out to make a good impres
sion, so come and benefit by it. We 
are starting at 8:30 because we havo 
to quit at twelve and nobody will want 
to go home so soon; The tax is only a 
dollar and a quarter, and youd get 
your moneys worth if you stayed only 
an hour. Make your date now for 
March seventh.
PUPPET OPENS ART 
AND COPY CONTEST
Girls as Well as Boys Are 
Asked to Help Puppet Win 
Judge Contest
Puppets Art and Copy contest is 
now in full swing. The ice has been 
broken by several contributors who 
bid fair to make an impression when 
the judges decide the winners.
This year the staff intends to make 
use of every contributors work in 
an attempt to win the College Wits 
Contest held by Judge sometime in 
May. It is absolutely necessary that 
outsiale help be obtained in order 
that the quality of the regular issues 
of the book be maintained at the 
usual standards of excellence and 
at the same time sufficient material 
sent to Judge.
The staff has long been deliberat
ing on the prizes to be awarded and 
they have finally been decided upon. 
The nature and amount of the wards 
will be published next week. In the 
meantime let it suffice to know that 
they are well worth the small amount 
oi effort necessary to turn out a lot 
of worthwhile copy and art.
Remember that Puppet needs new 
blood yearly as floes every publica
tion on the campus and that now is 
the time to begin. The prizes them
selves will repay any effort expended 
but more than that, the contest af
fords a splendid opportunity of get
ting in on a very much worth-while 
campus activity.
The girls especially are urged to 
writo and draw, for Puppet's- femi
nine balancing factor on the mast 
head is not a very heavy affair. 
Write down the bright crack the 
next time you hear some on strut 
his stuff. An envelope addressed to 
Puppet, C. I. T. Post Office, will do 
the rest.
Mortar Board wishes to correct an 
article published in Inst weeks Tar
tan, which stated that the organiza
tion had voted to select twenty girls 
from the Freshman and Sophomore 
classes of. the College of Fine Arts 
and Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege, who would be considered eligible 
for Mortar Board.
This article was inaccurate. The 
girls will be selected solely on the 
basis of activities and their interest 
in the college, but such activities and 
interest will in no way entitle them 
to eligibility to Mortar Board.
GEN. BLISS TO 
BE GRADUATION 
SPEAKER HERE
GRAPHICA TO FINANCE 
TRIP OF FIFTEEN MEN
Fifteen printers will take an exten
sive eastern tour during the Easter 
vacation as a result of the Christmas 
Card campaign held last fall.' Al
though there is a little money still 
outstanding, it is believed that enough 
profit has been made to pay all of the 
expenses of this number of men on a 
ten-day trip.
The tentative itinery for the tour 
includes Springfield, Boston, New Lon
don, New York, Philadelphia, and 
Washington, to be visited in the order 
named. In these cities the printing 
students will see the mills of the 
Strathmore Paper Company at Spring
field, various printing plants at Bos
ton, the factory of the Babcock Print
ing Press Manufacturing Company at 
New London, Connecticut, a few of 
the large New York concerns, the 
Curtis Publishing Company and the 
Philadelphia Public Ledger at Phil-, 
adelphia, and the Government Print
ing Office at Washington. On the en
tire tour as many other points of in
terest besides the printing plants will 
be noted as time is available for.
The itinerary of this trip is much 
the same as that of two years ago 
when the Graphica took a similar trip 
in which nineteen members partici
pated. Boston and Washington are 
additional cities on the list, these ad
ditions being made possible by a 
shorter stay in New York.
These trips taken by tne Graphica 
members are not only of great educa
tional value to them, but serve to 
spread the fame of the School of 
Printing throughout the eastern 
states.
The student tourists expect to meet 
a great many of the prominent print(Continued on Page Four.)
PLEBE REGULATIONS COM.
IS PREPARED TO STRIKE
DR. HADLEY, FORMER 
YALE PRESIDENT
Will Deliver Lectures on the 
Broader Aspects of 
Transportation
AWARDED D. S. MEDAL
For the benefit of those Plebes 
who insist upon breaking regulations 
notices is hereby given by the Gen
eral Plebe Regulations Committee 
that a cloudburst of trouble is about 
to fall upon them if they do not mend 
their ways and do It quickly. The 
committee is fully prepared to carry 
out this threat and now that the 
weather is opening up somewhat am
ple opportunities for doing so will be 
available.
There lias been entirely too much 
disregard for regulations on the pari 
of the Plebes this year.
Nearly everyone feels that way 
about it. The committee proposes 
to stop this.
Among distinguished visitors of the 
month, Carnegie will entertain Dr. Ar
thur T. Hadley, Ex-president of Yale, 
who is coming here during the latter 
part of the month, to deliver a series 
of lectures on the Broader Aspects 
of Transportation.
Dr. Hadley is a well-known scholar 
of Political Economy and is a recog
nized authority on transportation. He 
graduated with the highest honors 
from Yale in 76 and received his 
LL.D. from Yale, Harvard, Columbia, 
and Johns Hopkins.
His Dolctor der Philosophie was con
ferred upon him by Berlin and after 
a very active career, in 1899, ho was 
elected President of Yale University 
which position lie-held until 1921. Dur
ing this period he gained much fame 
through a number of books on eco
nomics, politics, education and phil
osophy, he published.
In addition to carrying out his offi
cial duties and writing books, Dr. Had
ley is an influential member of the 
American Academy of Arts and Let
ters, and is affiliated with societies of 
history, philosophy, and economics.
It is planned to hold the lectures in 
the Union, and March 2G, 27, and 28 
have been mentioned as tentative 
dates. Tho Commercial Department 
is looking forward to Dr. Hadleys 
coming with keen anticipation since 
these lectures will provo a valuable 
contribution to the regular schedule 
of the courses offered by that depart
ment.
We congratulate Dr. Baker upon his 
success in securing so capable a 
speaker and hope that Dr. Hadley may 
consider his time well spent here.
Fraternities Are to 
House Basketballers
To Entertain Contestants in 
W. P. I. A. L. Series
At the meeting of the Inter-fratornity Council Saturday morning, the 
chairman of the committee appointed 
to look after the entertainment of 
high school basket ball players ^taking 
part in the W. P. I. A. L. tournament 
here reported arrangements aomplete. 
He announced that fraternities might 
expect calls for assistance from tho. 
committee beginning with the first 
game today.
A motion that local fraternities sub
mit the name of the national of their 
choice to the Council for approval be
fore petitioning was defeated.
The committee for the Interfrater
nity Formal was empowered to . re
quest administration permission to 
hold the Formal on April lOtli.
The Committee on Rushing Regu
lations proposed a plan that the rush 
period be maintained at its present 
length of three weeks and that mixed 
parties in that time be limited to one 
for each fraternity. A motion that all 
mixed social functions be eliminated 
was defeated. Final decision was de
ferred until next meeting.
NEWMAN CLUB ROBBERS'
DANCE GREAT SUCCESS
The Robbers' Dance of the New
man Club last Wednesday night was 
a great social success. The novelty 
of a robbers dance and the good 
music combined to make the evening 
unusually enjoyable.
The club shieks will probably go 
into retirement for the next six 
weeks as activities will be limited 
to basket ball and business meetings 
during Lent.
The games will start at 9:00 on 
Wednesday evenings. Two meetings 
will be held on Sunday afternoons at 
dates to be announced later.
SCIENCE SOPHS NOMINATE
MEN FOR CLASS OFFICES
At a meeting of the Science Sopho
more class on Monday, February 25, 
nominations for the offices of secrc 
tary and senate representative were 
opened the following men were nomi
nated:
Secretary, Paul J. Bowron, F. L. 
Wagner, E. Wright, Joe Seaman, Joe 
Ward, W. R. Bernard!, D. Kramer.
S'enate Representative, S. A. Powrie, P. E. Meyer, F. W. Cook, Joe 
Ward, F. J. Kimmel, Wayne Wilson, 
Joe Seaman, W. E. Bender.
Elections will be held this week, 
As it requires a majority to elect, the 
first ballot can do little more than 
reduce the large number of nominees 
to the two highest. A second ballot 
will likely be necessary to decide the 
winners.
Has Made Notable Record 
in Army Service from 1884 
Until Present DayWas 
Member of Allied Council
General Tasker Howard' Bliss, who 
has been secured by Dr. Baker for 
Commencement speaner, has had 
quite a notable army record. In ISS1, 
he was appointed by the President to 
make a report on the military value 
of the interior waterways of the 
United States, and for several years 
following that appointment was a 
professor of Military Science at the 
United States Naval War College. 1-Ie 
was military attache at the United 
States Legation in Madrid, in 1897- 
8; served through Porta Rican cam
paign, 1S98, and was1 chief of tho 
staff to Major General Janies M. Wil
son. He held the position of Chief 
of Staff with the rank of General, 
U. 9. A. in 19171; retired by operar 
tion of law in December of the same 
year, but continued on active duty 
by order of the President. He was 
a member of the Allied Conference 
in 1917, and also a member of tho 
Supremo War Council in Franco and 
has been award'ed the U. S. M. In 
addition to all these honors, he was 
a member of the American Commis
sion to Negotiate Peace, which met 
In Paris in 1918-19.
We are certainly very fortunate In 
having Goneral Bliss as a speaker 
for Commencement for he ranks 
among the most distinguished Amer
ican citizens.
Remaining Plans for 
Arts Ball Are Secret
Work is Progressing Slowly 
as Completion Nears
Very little is said outside of Arts 
School concerning tho preparations 
for the ball, the date of which has 
been sot for March 21. Preparations 
are progressing quietly, however, and 
contrary to previous years, thoso who 
are working to mako tho ball a suc
cess are able to complete their work 
without' the usual fuss and oxcltomont which has preceded previous 
balls.
Rehearsals' for "Joy or the Lan 
terns,* tho ball show havo boon sus
pended for a time. The show is in 
excellent shape and rehearsals wll 
be rosumod just in timo to allow tho 
coaches to put on tho finishing touch
es.
Tho committee expects to mako 
public tho name of the orchestra for 
both the ball and tlio posUball dance 
within a short tlmo.
Assurance is made that although 
tho Garber-Davis Orchestra cannot 
be secured again, the students will 
not be disappointed witli the orches
tra which will be engaged.
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
What do you think of the men of 
Carnegie?
The following is the Carnegie girls 
reaction to Carnegie men, being an 
authentic reproduction of their honest 
opinions.
Helen Johnson, College of Fine Arts 
24, says:
They are a nice bunch, but there 
are not enough chances to get to know 
them. Perhaps they have too much 
work to do, but there are certainly a 
lot of them who never become 
known.
Dorothy Weber, Maggie Murph 25, 
says:
. I think our men are all right, but 
there are many whom one never gets 
to know. There is not enough co
operation between the men and the 
girls.
Mary Speers, also a Junior at Mar
garet Morrison, says:
I think a lot (of them), but I hate 
publicity!
Dorma Reidenoyer, Sophomore in 
the College of Fine Arts, sayfi:
Some of them are very nice, but 
one of their general characteristics is 
fickleness. Of course there are excep
tions.
Mary Quick, Maggie Murph '20,
says:
I think they are here to work, and 
not to be rated as social butterflies, 
but most of them are very nice. 
Camille ODonnell '20, Margaret 
Morrison says:
'They are not half bad if you get 
to know them.
"Eve Spencer, music student In tho 
College of Fine Arts, has a short and 
sweet opinion, namely:
"Pretty nice.
Louise Will, a Maggie Murph Plebe, 
says:
Some of them are just fine, but oth
ers are not so good. As a rule, 
(Continued on Page Four.) .
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
CHAPEL THURSDAY 12:50
HALF HOUR WELL SPENT
Remember clmpol next Thursday 
at 12:50 in tho Little Theater. Lets 
continue to increase the attendance 
that was so much better last week.
Although tho speaker has not been 
aunouncod, a very interesting pro
gram is promised.
During the coming period of Lent 
we can well afford to spend one-half 
hour onco every week in attending 
chapel. Your attendance helps tho 
service.
Whitehead Club Begins 
Lent Discussion Groups
SPEAKERS ENGAGED 
FOR SCIENCE STAG
Hap Hower and Bob Waddell 
to Address Engineers 
at 1924 Stag
, Prof. HI S. Hower, prominent cit
izen of our campus, and Robert N. 
Waddell, assistant varsity football 
coach, have been engaged to speak 
at tlio 192*1 Science Stag, which will 
be hold in the Carnegie Union, Sat
urday, March 15.
Prof. Hap I-Iower, head of the 
Department of Physics in tho Col
lego of Engineering, needs no intro
duction to Carnegio engineers. Be
sides being busily engaged in his 
official work .as lieadi of the Physics 
Department and in his commercial 
research work In light, Professor 
Rower is tho faculty representative 
on tho Athletic Council.
Bob Waddell, having been Wally 
Steffens  assistant for two years 
prior to last yoar, is woll known 
to all uippor-classmen at Carnegie. 
Bob will bo horo again next fall 
when lie will aid Wally Steffen in 
preparing our griddors to tackle ono 
of tho most difficult schedules a 
'Carnegie olovon has over been callod up'on to faco. Both these men 
will provo interesting spoakors and 
each will have a pertinent mossago 
to convoy to tho Carnegio onginoors 
at tho 1924 stag.
Select Five Judges.
True to its affirmed! policy of 
making innovations in the program 
for the Engineering Frolic of 1924, 
tho committee has solectod us 
judges for tho class entertainment 
productions of tlio following men: 
A. W. Tarbell, Doan of Mon; .1. I, 
Warner, Instructor In tho Electrical 
Equipment and Construction Depart(Continuod on Pago Four.)
Hop Tickets to Go a 
On Sale This Week
Soph Dance Arrangements 
Approach Final Form
Tickets for tho Soph Hop to bo 
hold at the Schonloy March 28, wlll 
gon on salo this wook. Sophomoro. 
slnco this Is thoir own dance, are 
to bo given first opportunity to pur
chase tho admission cards.. Section 
loaders will act as distributing 
agents. Tho price is .$8.00.
Tho Soph Hop Committee last 
week received acceptances of Invita
tions to chaperone the danco from 
Prof. and Mrs. W. R. Work, Mr. and 
Mrs. II. K. Kirkpatrick andi Mr. and 
Mrs. Herbert L. Spencer. They also 
placed an order for programs which 
will servo as appropriate mementos 
of the affair.
Tho selection of Dave Harmans 
Orchestra to provide the music for 
the occasion has caused much fa
vorable comment on the campus. The 
impression created by the Williams
port musicians performance at the 
Junior Prom has not faded from the 
minds of those who heard them. Re
ports of the quality of the music and 
of the stylo in which it was render
ed have aroused a general desire in 
the under classes to be present at 
the next appearance of the touted 
orchestra.
The nature of the act which the 
dramats will put on during the inter
mission has not been decided. The 
Intermission will probably be brief, 
and tho Schenley ball room is not 
a particularly propitious place for 
the display of stage cleverness. One 
of the Drama Department wizards 
can be depended upon to find some
thing that will fit the circumstances.
The Hop Committee has been doing 
thorough work, and from the student 
interest displayed it is evident that 
the fruits of their efforts are going 
to bo widely enjoyed.
At noon today the Whitehead 
Episcopal Club will begin its weekly 
discussion groups, to be continued 
throughout Lent. All students, men 
and women, who aro members of the 
Episcopal Church aro urged and 
invited to attend. A valuable half 
hour of discussion will be your re
ward.
The procedure is as follows: Go 
to tho Margaret Morrison Cafeteria 
at. 12.00 noon, every Tuesday, pass 
through the lino and get your dinner 
(pay for it yourself), carry it down 
to Room 305, where tho gang will 
first oat together, and have their 
discussion afterwards.
. Rq.v. Robert N. Meade of the 
Church of tho. Redeemer, will lead 
in the discussion.
DR. R. V. WHEELER 
WILL SPEAK HERE
English Mining Expert to 
Discuss Application of 
Rock Dusting
HI-YS TO HOLD BANQUET
IN M. M. CAFETERIA WED.
The H.I-Y banquet will bo held in 
the Margaret Morrison Cafeteria on 
Wednesday, March 5, at 5:45 p. rri. 
Speacheu will bo delivered by Pop 
Maco of Central V, Chief Williams 
of Metropolitan Y, and Earl Bothwell 
of Oakland Y, These well known 
speakers are sure to nave points of 
Interest for all of us, and will make 
the banquet profitable, as well as 
very enjoyable.
The girl members of the Tech 
Y. W. will serve. Although tho 
mcnui has not been announced, it is 
well known that quite'a feast is an
ticipated.
Remember: songs, speakers, plenty 
to tat, and a real good Y-fime.
Tickets may be had from Mr. Davis 
in the Y office.
Studonts, coal mining men and 
chemists of tho Pittsburgh District 
will bo given an unusual opportunity 
to hear an authoritative discussion on 
Mine Explosions when Dr. E. Y. 
Wheeler, ono of Englands host-known 
mining exports, lectures horo next 
Wednesday and Thursday evenings.
Dr. Wheeler, who, in addition to be
ing Director of tho Department of 
Fuel Technology at tho University of 
Sheffield, Is Director of tho Minos 
Department Experimental Station of 
Groat Britain, at Eskmoals, Is now In 
Pittsburgh as tho guost of tho U. S. 
Bureau of Minos. Accompanied by 
I-Ionry Walkor, Deputy Chief inspector 
of Minos of Great Britain, and W. R. 
Chapman. Dr. Whoolor will bo en
gaged for about two woolcs on co
operative research work with tho Buroau of Minos in connection with tho 
incrousod saloty In mlnos.
In response to an Invitation from Dr. 
Thomas S. Baker, Dr. Whoolor will 
give two lectures at tho Institute on 
"Mine Explosions, Thoir Oausos and 
Prevention, for tho apodal benefit of 
mining mon In this district.
A feature of tho lectures, II. Is an
nounced, will be a comprehensive dis
cussion of tho problems and applica
tion of "rock dusting" In the coal 
mlnos of Groat Britain. As "rook 
dusting" which has boon practised 
successfully In tho mines of England 
Is a development practically unknown 
In this country, It Is expected that 
tills feature * alone, will attract a ca
pacity audience.
In order to accommodato tho large 
attendance that Is exported, arrange
ments have boon made to hold the loo(Continuod on Pago Four.)
INDUSTRIES SMOKER 
IN UNION, MARCH 21
ELECTIONS TO 
JOURNALISTIC 
SOCIETY MADE
Selections to Pi Delta Epsilon 
Made Last Thursday Night 
in Halls of Fraternity Due 
to Assembly Postponement
SIX MEN ARE CHOSEN
March twonty-flist Is tho date sot 
for the All Industries Smoker to he 
held In the Union. A special form of 
entertainment will be offered byi each 
class In tho Industries Collego. Sovoral of the "stunts promlso rare 
amusement, as oach class strives to 
surpass tho other in dramatic abil
ity. Sovoral local entertainers will 
be present to insure a variety of 
amusement.
A special invitation is extended to 
all male Freshmen in tho iour 
schools.
The new Alpha Tau pledges will 
probably bo announced during the 
evening, which will greatly add to 
the Interest of tho event.
Mark this date on your calendar 
now, and prepay for a "big time. 
The committee promises plenty of 
eats, drinks and smokes.
PI Delta Epsilon, the honorary jour
nalistic fraternity held its mid-year 
elections last Thursday night. Duo to 
the fact that the general assembly of 
February was called off, tiio elections, 
which are usually hold at that timo, 
were made known in tho mystic halls 
of tho fraternity at midnight on tho 
above date.
The immenso hall was lighted only 
by a few candles which threw fantas
tic shadows upon tho darkly tinted 
walls. At ono end, a small group, 
dwarfed in the immensity of the room, 
stood before tho flaming quill pon, the 
emblem of tho order.
Six of the men were not members. 
They stood, surrounded by tho mem
bers of the fraternity, as a black 
hooded figure arose and stood behind 
tho alter. A single beam of white 
light shone upon tho ebony slab; the 
man in black placed upon the altar 
a scroll, on which was printed in rod 
letters the ritual by which men aro 
always plodgod to this organization. 
Below tlio ritual were six names,
As he road the ritual, none could 
help being Improssod by the grandeur 
of the occasion. As ho finished, thoro 
was a pause.  Me concluded, "Do you,
D. A. Gardner, M. S. Downes, E. P. 
Couso, F. C. Smith, W. Winning. W. A. 
Buckloy?" "Wo do."
Tho men above had beon plodgod 
to PI Delta Epsilon.
Benefit Bridge to be 
Held This Saturday
Many Notable Personages 
Among Table Holders*
This Saturday afternoon. March 
olghth, at 2:80, In MoCroorys lining 
room, the Margaret Morrison Scoretrial Club bonolll. bridge wl'll bo hold. 
The proceeds or tho bridge are to bo 
used as a scholarship to bo given to 
somo Incoming Senior In the Secre
tarial Department.
Tho girls aro hoping to make this 
a groat success, and aro doing thoir 
boat to make It more than a benefit 
bridge, They hope to mako It an en
joyable party'.
The general chairman, Miss Gladys 
Sloppy, Is being ably assisted by 
members of her committee In work
ing out tho final details. Miss Faye 
Glass Is In Charge of patronesses and 
prizes, usslstod by Miss Elizabeth 
Wright and Miss Marguerite Mc
Grath; Miss Nora Willetts, Is hand
ling publicity; Miss Kathryn Moron 
anti) Miss Sarah Sussman: will havo 
charge of cards, pencils and scores, 
and Miss Mildred Moron, candy',
Among tho lablcholtlors for tho 
day aro: Miss Virginia Hockort,
Miss Helen Gillespie, Miss Margaret 
Maikey, Miss Clare Waldoeik, Miss 
Olga Gojdics, Miss Anna K. Bren
nan, Miss Dorothy Renick, Miss 
Grelchen Issol, Miss Grace Moore, 
Miss Mary Louise Stolzenbach, Miss 
Louise Machines, Miss Carol Folglit, 
Miss Barbara White, Miss Sarah 
Creighton, Miss Dorothy Steele, Miss 
Ida Finkol, Miss Mary Carey, Miss 
Elizabeth Gordon, Miss Helen Eyster, 
Mrs. H. G. Willetts. Mrs. W. G. Stew
art, Miss Frances Rayeburn, Miss 
Margaret Griffin, Miss Harriett 
Rose, Miss Man Bechtel, Miss Maud 
Fire, Miss Martha Lloyd, Miss Grace 
Merrill, Mrs. C. O. Harvey, Miss 
Bernice Kniger, Mrs. J. C. McCor
mick, Mrs. B. G. Myers, Mrs. C. E.
(Continued on Page Four)
Plebe Architects Forget Themselves 
And Indulge in Frightful Riot Act
Neptune was a funny old! guy, but I 
he had the right idea when he pick
ed out the aea to rule. A liquid I 
diet has a mighty kick sometimes. If 
you don't believe it, interview a few 
of the little cherubs enjoying their 
first year In the halls of the home
less Draught, in tho famous halls 
of archilecturedom.
Last Tuesday afternoon a purpose 
as lofty and ambitious as any Napo
leon ever entertained was thwarted 
by a careful quantity of foam and 
spray, applied with calculated design 
by certain members of tlio class of 
Architects, 20.
In plain words, a few naughty 
nauhty Plebes decided to raise Hades 
In a lady-llke, but effective way, and 
were crushed and beaton by tho 
mighty power of a flowing tido. They 
started off well by chipping frantic
ally at the wooden headpieces of 
their rivals with' knives and chisels, 
but the rivals became aroused there
at, and struck back at their offen
sive little underlings.
Although it was only Tuesday, 
they decided to give the Plebes an 
extra club, a young bath, forsooth, 
scarcely more than a ducking, but
they made them do the goose step to 
it, just the same!
The Plebes were desperate. There 
they were, on their wayi to the ig
nominious plunge! They must have 
assistance, and have it immediately. 
A compassionate Senior intorvenorl, 
moved, no doubt, by their childish 
imploring eyes, and sent for rein
forcements. They arrived promptly, 
and floated In a tide of dignity to tho 
"Float Scone stunt, of tho firemans 
ball.
But lo! Thoir efforts wore una
vailing. Noptuno was unmistakably 
allied1 with the triumphant Sopho
mores, and all they could do was 
make tho, air a little moro lurid than 
it already was. Hero, also, they woro 
dofoatod. Even thoir cuss words 
wouldnt stick, for the cleansing 
water washed them, all away!
Articles liolherto considered sta
tionary passed In stormy review over 
and under their heads, and close to 
their noses, ears, etc. Books flew 
hither and yon, drawing boards lay 
at drunken angles, fists flew out in 
(Continued on Page Four)
RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL?

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 4, 1924
^ornEgiE iEartao
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.'
JjJnterod In the Posto/Jlce of Plttebrgli an second-class matter.
ElTOR-lN-ClIIEF
H. F. SIMPSON.....................................................................................Schenley 9143
BUSINESS MANAGER 
J. C. MAJOR.............................................................................................Illland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD.
FRED C. SMITH........
FRED T. PHELPS,...
.Schenley 9180Managing Editor
............Assistant Managing Editor
............Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAW EVERETT.. 
MARK S. DOWNES 
II. II. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
.Schenley 0220
W. WINNING . 
F. D. ROSSINI. 
A. S. ANDREW!
NEWS EDITORS.
Schenley 0070 
Schenley 9070 
Schenley 9211
A. E. KROGII... 
'Hi C. FRAZIER.
..Schenley 0070Alumni Editor 
.Schenley 048Athletic Editor
R. W. SLEATM ................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. JEFIfREY.................................................................................Exchange Editor
ID. P. GO USE, JR............................................................................................-Art Editor
DON GARDNER ............................................................................. Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY..........................................................................Circulation Manager
W. M. GIBSON.-..........................................Schenloy 9211Advertising Manager
13. BROUDY................................................ ............Assistant Business Manager
Entello Garibaldi 
Elizabeth Jane Gordon 
Wilma Stiner 
Carol Foiglit 
Maigarot McFall 
Rosemary McCain bridge 
Nora WllletH
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Alinee Pharo 
N. C. WeHor 
V. 13. Smith 
L. II. Harris 
E. G. Johnson 
K. Fulmer 
A. F. Carson
M AM GIEU 
RM M. McClelland 
M. W. Gay 
C. A. Lundnulst 
R. L. Leppor 
J. N. Conley 
Holllnshead
Helen Corrao
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
G. p. Jacoby .1. Cliriatft J. F. HnrrlE, G. Plummor
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
1). Mofllcovltz, .1. W, Metro, P. Etilo, u. h. Son'droak, A. Orodner, U Burljrow, A. Perreton, Loo C. OsJjorn, E. Ij. Ruovob.
Tilt: I'Jdltoi'-ln-Chlor PU rouponBlblo for the policy ol till paper; ttio 
Managing Editor for tho malte up.
Tilt) Tartan welcomes all communication of ntudont Interest, 1C Bigned. 
Signature will bo withheld It desired, All news Items must bo In tho student 
punt ollleo bct'ore 4:30 Thursday. _________
1:20.
Tartan OflceRoom r,-A, Industries Building, onice hourBDully 12:30-
THE W. P. I. A. L. AND CARNEGIE
Cttrflggie Tbohs riiaasivo new gymnasium opens to tlie college 
great possible opportunities. This building is without a doubt the 
largest collegialc institution of its kind in this section of Pennsylvana, and it is believed in West Virginia, Indiana, Ohiothe truth is, 
wo might include the whole country. Stop a minutetake note of 
its size -its four-fold featureits opportunity for student entertain
ments, gatherings, pep-meetings because of its grfiat seating capacity, 
and platformils adequate housing lor our Physical Culture, and 
Athletic Association 'departments. When you consider all of these 
opportunities, you cannot fail lo realize that this, Our New Gymna
sium, has even greater possibilities than we had heretofore imagined. 
There is yet another wo did not mention.
Carnegie Tech can now entertain any scholastic or collegiate in
door moot, lie it, basket hall, track, indoor baseball, swimming, girls 
events, or what not? ..Along with this comes tlmt additional prestige 
and reputation that naturally go with the entertainment and suc
cessful staging of such events.
The accepted invitation from the Carnegie Athletic authorities 
to tho Western Pennsylvania Intor-Seholastic Athletic l.jeoguC to hold 
l.hcir final basket ball championship games is only a beginningbut, 
u very great and auspicious beginning. Tho chances Ibis tournament 
offers to advance the name til1 Carnegie Tech among high school boys 
cannot bo minimized. It is therefore the DUTY of every son and 
daughter of Carnegie to entortain those visiting young mon os they 
never have entertained before. Not only should this eclipse ayy hits 
uT entertainment wo have ever ntlcmpted before, but It must eclipse 
any entertainment these young high school students havo ever been 
treated to, or ever will bo treated to,
There is need for co-operation on every side-students, faculty, 
administration, fraternities, organizations. It is good for these vis
iting high school basket bull players lo carry back with them a cher
ished memory ol! n hospitable Carnegie Tech. Carnegie is known
throughout li.....ation as a college boasting ol a curricula second to
none. What, would he great,or tlmn to suppliment this with a knowl
edge that, Carnegie Spirit and hospitality also aro second to none'/ 
" So, the CARNlJOllO TAUT AN calls upon every single student to 
full to, and make these men feel welcome, The best way lo do
this is to attend their games. The ........ will seat close lo 4,01)0
people itll bold more. Let's make each succeeding game be played 
before a larger crowd than tho preceding one.
Through our support ol! their games wo will prove oouelusivoly 
that Til MY AUK W-iOOMR
hot us say when Ibis tournament is over: WI3 S13UN OUlt 
1IIITY, AND Wl'l DONI'i I'l'l" _______________________;____________
STUDENT CALENDAR^
| AND THATS THAT ]
In Campus Comments the girls 
give their opinions of tho boys at 
Caraegjle, and Lhd concensus of 
opinions seems to he that the hoys 
are too hard to know.
Tho shy retiring youngsters!
Perhaps half their charm lies In 
that the girls don't seo them enough 
to know them.
Imagine some light winded Drlads 
fi'Om Science or Industries helu 
persuod through the wilds of Schenley Park by some Pan l'rom Maggie 
Murpli.
General Bliss 'will be at Com
mencement. In person!
There will bo two kinds of Bliss 
present; that which is felt only, and 
the gentleman who will speak.
Tho Seniors will go ouU with tholr 
heads in the clouds, and will come 
back with footprints on their necka.
Thats why wo always have a 
good speaker at Commencement to 
encourage the boys.
JuBt like giving a boy candy, and 
then feeding him castor oil.
Some Plobes have come to life. 
Those Fresh Architects aro always 
stirring up trouble.
But why do they select tho only 
room In school which has a big 
enough waoli basin to put men in.
Tlioy' always fight better in De
sign School; the girls stand around 
and give cheers.
When it was over, they said to 
the Plebes, Gwan you're all- wet."
Puppet is going to offer cash 
prizes for the best articles for the 
book.
Hero's a wonderful opportunity. Get 
paid for the lies you usually tell lor 
nothing.
Truth may be its own reward, but 
a little imagjnation will reward its 
owner.
Remember! These jokes must bo 
short, humorous and clean.
There are the conditions. Just try 
to write something.
The Science Stag is due to run
Pellcas and MoIIsando.
A lyric play. A play that Ungers 
In the heart, as light and shadows 
and softly cadenced voices rather 
than as ideas and events. And yet, 
withal, the most profound play we 
have had this year. Ibsen and Sudormann are within tho range of any 
educated audience, but one must be 
oneself potentially a part or mystic 
to hear the o/erones in Maeterlinck 
The wisdom, of the ages is hidden 
In his almost childish simplicity.
Whatever artists could do to open 
for. us Maeterlinck great gate of 
wonder was done last night In the 
Arts Theater. Light, acting, scen
ery and muslo (in just that order of 
importance) all contributed to give us 
an much of Insight into Maeterlinck 
as we aro capable of receiving.
The lighting was impressionistic. 
It was beautiful in itself, yet never 
gave the impression so often con
voyed by daring effects, of being an 
end In itself. This other worldly 
lighting was a ralthful interpolation 
of the mood of the play. The use 
of projected scenery was an Innova
tion, yet so effective and appropriate 
that one thought only of its beauty, 
not of its novelty.
The acting was oxcellent, and, to a 
student of Maeterlinck, interesting. 
The play itself centers in four char
acters, three, Pillers, Meliaande and 
Goland, drifting d6wn the ways of 
destiny, bewildered, .helpless as little 
children, curiously innocent of their 
own acts; and the fourth, the old 
King Askel, seeing with his eyes 
blinded to the ordinary sights of 
earth, some part at least of the 
great sad meaning of these lives 
and of all lives. Now what did the 
actors make of thi3 mystical drama? 
Miss Lowe as Melisande was the 
mo3t faithful to tho play. What 
might in less.skillful bands have be
come a silly simplicity she gave in 
all its real innocence and pathos. 
Mr. McCarthy caught the boyishness 
of Pelleas, but missed a little the 
overtone of mystical tragedy. Paul 
McGrath ap Goland gave a brilliant 
and impassioned interpretation. It
again soon. This Is going to bo a wn3 such. an oxcellent iilece or actWKDNUSDAY, M ARCH 5
Varsity Basket BallCarnogie-PilI...............................Motor Square
freshman Basket BallCarnegie-Pitl...........................Motor Square
FLU DAY, MARCH 7
Varsity Basket BallCaruegic-Gcncva.........................Carnegie Gym
Musical Clubs Dance......................................................Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, MARCH; 8
Secretarial Club Bridge......................................2:00 P. M., McCreerys
TUESDAY, MARCH 11
Varsity Basket BallCarnegic-Grove City...................Carnegie Gym
WEDNESDAY, MARCH .12
Varsity Basket BallCarnogie-Pcnn State...................Carnegie'Gym
SATURDAY, MARCH 15
Science Stag..................................................7:45 P. M., Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, MARCH 21
Industries Smoker........................................8:00 P. M., Carnegie Union
Arts Ball....................................................................College of Pine Arts
SATURDAY, MARCH 22 
Post Ball Dance..................................................i):00 P. M.. Arts Foyer
nice party, no fooling
Tea and macaroons will be served 
at 8:15, and all will be home in, bed 
at 10:30.
Smoking will be permitted in the 
hall only, and 110 does will be per
mitted near I he building.
All acts will be strictly censored 
before hand, and tea cups will be 
chained to the tables to prevent 
their being thrown.
Whats this world coming to?
I11 tho ^commons they've quit tak
ing money at tho door, and are talc
ing them at the oncll of tho line.
Dont they trust the students?
How do they1 expect a boy to earn 
his way through school, if they col
lect for his meals like that?
Hear they expect to weigh tlie 
students before they leave and 
charge them according to weight;.
Theres entirely too many girls 
eat there for that. Some of the boys 
loso weight whllo eating,
HSPWL Secretarial Club is holding 
a benefit bridge. Better not lot the 
Science men In. Thats nil they do 
over at that school. Play bridge.
An efficiency expert would clock 
tho ovont as follows: locating, 0110
hour; Bridge, fifteen mlnuites; Talk 
lug, two hours and forl;y-ilYo min
utes,
Tho Commercials might be able to 
bold up tholr lino, but tho rest of 
tho boys wouldnt havo much, tlmto say anything excopt, Hello, 
"Wondorl'uil Afternoon, Good Byo.
Campus Week. Is in. tho air again, 
According to tho dope, some old 
events will >bo cut out and new ones 
substituted.
They cant drop the Mardi Gr 
or what would- tho people of Pitts
burgh do that night? They all come,
A Queen imust be elected again 
with 110 stulting of ballot boxes or 
corruption of election officials.
Tho Queen of Campus Week must 
be kept clean.
Talk it up, May 15, 16 and 17.
MUSICAL CLUBS DANCE 
IN THE UNION MARCH 7
REGULAR MEETING OF
TEKNON CLUB THURS.
The regular meeting, of the Teknon Club will be held next Thursday 
night, at 6:00 p. m as usual.
From the Student Relief drive re
turns, it seems that, the drive did not
Wanna havo a good time? Do you 
like a good dance with a peppy orch
estra? Do you fool like strutting
your stuff?" Thou come to tho next j go across as good as was anticipated, 
Musical Clubs dance In tho Union Tho oxaot receipts are not known 
March 7. Ralph Harrison's celebrated | but they total about, three hundred 
orchestra of Loow vaudeville fame, and twenty-five dollars, one hundred 
will furnish the Inspiration. This Is | of which was contributed by the 
tho first, appearance of this orchestra 1 Young Women's Christian Assocla011 iho Carnoglo campus and tlkvy are I ,(on. owing to tho lack of Interest 
out to make a good Impression, so I n industries and Science the camcome and benefit by It. Wo are atiKl-| pnlgn fell short In these two sehoolq. 
lug at S:ao because wo have to quit on a whole though, the results were
lug that it was only after seeing sev
eral performances that one realized 
he had overbalanced the others and 
destroyed the symmetry of the play. 
So powerful a Goland had the same 
effect that too bright a light or too 
vivid a color migiht have had. iH'e 
took tho emphasis away from the 
old King who ought to dominate. 
And, unfortunately, Mr. Coughlin act
ed the King without sufficient power. 
He gave a finished and graceful inter
pretation of a fino old' man, but he 
did not grasp the fact that his was 
tlie real lead In the play. In Mae' 
terlincks world, those who apparently 
are 'quiet really do most, and only 
those whose eyes are closed can 
really see.
For tho rest, one thanks Miss 
Power for leading tlie servants 
scene in w spent of simplicity and 
humanity, with a nice avoidance of 
tho comic relief which a less dis
cerning actress might have found in 
tho lines.
ALLEN 12 GREGORY.
The Sage of Science Says:
Last year the Plebes won 
prize for. tho best stunt at 
Science stag.
Wonder if theyll repeat?
That two foot silver cup has 
created quite a futrore among tho 
theatrical producers of the Engi-j 
neering College.
Compare the flavor.
It's mild but it satisfies.
Due to unexpected engagements, 
Mr. Gallagher, Mi-. Shean, Mutt and 
Jeff, Jiggs and Petey Dink will be 
unable to attend the Engineering 
Frolic in 1924.
I'd walk 
Stag.
a mi'le to the Science
Jimmy Robertson, Jim Anderson, 
Chet Brumbaugh, Tommy Griggs, 
Chuck Hollingsworth and Bob Wadd'ell are going to the Science Stag.
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
Break Precedent at 
Soph Girls Banquet
Arls and Maggie Murph Sophs 
Join in Joy Feast
at. twelve and nobody will want; to go 
home so soon. The tax Is only a dol
lar and a quarter, and youd got your 
moneys worth If you stayed only an 
hour. Make your date now for March 
seventh.
THAT GIRL
Buck Trver: That girl reminds me
of a clothes line.
Salty Seaman: What makes you
think so?
Buck: About all there is to her is
clothes, pins, and a heavy line.Poly
technic Reporter.
So beautiful she seemed to me 
I wished that we might wed, 
Her neck a pillar of ivory, 
WHAT ABOUT WEDDING BELLS? i But alas! so was her head.
gratifying 
Tho club has taken in a number 
of now members. Among some of 
those welcomed! in were: Chad Kel
ler, Otis Fulmer, William Gooby, 
Robert Bridges, Peto Soman, Stuart 
Powrle, Edward Wright and Robert 
Snydoj'.
Tho Juniors are in a sad way. 
With their banquet and Prom gone, 
and Campus Week three mouths 
away, they have nothing to do but 
work.
Just Avatcli them turn out at the 
Soph (Hop, though, to hear Har 
mons Orchestra!
Its a case of making three dollars 
do What nine did before.
Some one says the Juniors are the 
most hardl boiled lot in school. Why 
not; theyve been in hot water for 
three ye are.
Theyre promising the Plebes that 
as scon as spring, comes, regulations 
will be rigidly enorced.
Whats the matter, do the regula
tors hibernate in the winter?
The Plebes will feel out of place 
with dinks and black ties. So would 
the Soniors.
Were getting to be just like Pitt. 
When tho Froahmon got tired of reg
ulations over there, they discard 
them.
It. would bo a good idea to make 
the .Plobes d;o a little work around 
here instead of lotting tho Juniors 
do It all (?)
W. P. 1. A. L. tournoy opens to
day. flight, to encourage those boys 
to come here.
Show them through Design School.
Maggie Murp'h and the Gym. But
keep thorn away from Science or
___________________ Industries.
I Any five of those boys would look 
1 bat man bores me to tears, .said J mighty sweet on next years Plebe
the sweet young thing as she stepped | team
out ot the dentist's chair." i AmI wh0 knOTVS. Somo ot thQm
j may decide that they want to work 
j instead of go to college and come 
j here! 0
After many weeks or Bchoming, 
planning, fretting, and worrying the 
oxpoctod day, March 1st, found over 
a. hundred Sophomore girls from Arts 
and Margaret Morrison, clad in their 
glad rags, gathered around the festive 
tables of the Schenley dining room.
The Tartans broke the ice with 
their peppy music. Peg Giflln, Arts 
Vice President;, was delightful as a 
toastmistress and she made events 
progress smoothly. As Dean of Wo
men, Miss Brown started off the ban
quet with a few appropriate remarks. 
A most entertaining reading was 
given by Eleanor, Johnson, a member 
of the Drama Department of Arts.
Though the girls hated to admit it, 
they really felt that a spark of the 
male element would add to the hilar
ity if not to the dignity of the occa
sion, so Mary Quick, Alma Butcher, 
and Martha Lamade sent everyone in
to gales of laughter by their clever 
burlesque of the Mens Sophomore 
Banquet.
Edith Warren, President of M. M. 
C. C., concluded the speeches with a 
clever summary of the history and 
future of the Girls' Sophomore Ban
quet in rhyme. The evening was 
brought to a close with some well 
selected popular music by Mildred Semans and Alice Nelson.
Good food, a delightful program, 
good spirit between the two schools 
mean more Sophomore banquets for 
the girls.
Dear Mr. Simpson:
Your editorial comment on What 
is wrong with activities received 
such a response in the Hoot Mon 
column that the situation reminds me 
of similar experiences. These situa
tions seems to return each yearthe 
same discussion takes place and much 
the same result is secured, which is 
to be expected.
A situation cannot change over
night, as we sometimes desire. Your 
expressed thought shows the mind of 
at least a part of the student body, 
and if there is a continuation of that 
thought there will be gradual advance
ment, step by step, resulting in 
marked progress ten or fifteen years 
from now. You are working on the 
development of a long time proposi
tion.
The situation is not as dishearten
ing as it sometimes appears. Alumni 
had been dissatisfied with the athletic 
situation previous to 1910. In that 
year the impetus necessary for a re
organization was supplied, and the 
results of the past four years are truly 
remarkable.
The student body was first organ
ized into a Unit in 1016. Defects in 
the organization were discovered in 
the succeeding years, the demands up
on the organization assumed greater 
proportions, and in 1020 considerable 
thought was given to reorganization. 
You are now much better organized 
under a partial development of those 
thoughts. Consider the rapid progress 
again.
These works have not been accom-' 
plislied by students of inferior grade. 
Most of the men interested in these 
activities were excellent students and 
a good portion of them were leaders 
in the class room as well as in activi
ties. They used school activities as 
a form of recreation instead of loaf
ing or playing poker, and made them
selves able to meet their financial re
quirements. But all men at Carnegie 
do not have an equal chance for par
ticipation in activities; some must 
study more than the average; others 
must work during every spare mo
ment and they deserve commendation; 
OTIlfDR MEN ARE SO BACKWARD 
THAT THEY ARE NOT ABLE TO 
GET INTO ACTIVITIES UNDER 
OUR PRESENT SYSTEM, until the 
third or fourth year, which is too late.
Now, to got into activities do not 
cry about the political situationour 
Hoot Mon friend Is incorrectly in
formed I believedo not try to in
duce the faculty to decrease the 
scholastic requirementsyou go to 
school to get an education, get out 
and make the point system work as it 
Is nilsadministered. Show by your 
actions that you want to be in activi
ties. There is always an opening for 
an enthusiastic assistant manager and 
plenty of room at the top for good 
men.
Play square, think well of your fel
low students, work hard,- play hard, 
and study hard.
If you think the present activities 
situation could be improved write out 
your ideasj show constructive as well 
as destructive criticism, and approach 
the Student Council. They represent 
3rou. Try to better the system for 
the men and women to follow. I 
think it can be' done.
Sincerely your friend,
N. G. NICHOL, JR.
In the February issue of the Car-1 
negie Alumnus there was a page de
voted to giving the rank of Carnegie 
Tech among the colleges and univer
sities of Pennsylvania. The figures 
are taken from the statistical report 
of the approved colleges and universi
ties in Pennsylvania for the year end
ing June 1, 1922, prepared by the 
State Department of Public Instruc
tion, and includes forty-seven colleges 
and universities.
There are five main divisions upon 
which the educational institutions are 
rated, namely; property valuation, en
rollment, faculty, receipts and expen
ditures. These main divisions are 
each divided. The property valuation 
is divided into value to grounds, build
ings, apparatus and library. Enroll
ment consists of the number of stu
dents from Pennsylvania, from other 
countries. The faculty is divided into 
the number of professors and the 
number of instructors. Receipts is 
made up of receipts from endowment, 
from tuition fees and receipts from 
other sources. Expenditures consists 
of expenditures for faculty, other em
ployes and other expenses.
For the values of total property 
Carnegie Tech ranks third in the 
State of Pennsylvania. This report, 
as stated above, was made on the first 
of June, 1922, and therefore does, not 
include our new gymnasium. Car
negie ranks sixth in total enrollment
of male students and fourth in total 
enrollment of female students, third 
in the number of professors and in
structors, third in total receipts and 
fourth in total expenditures.
For valuation of buildings and ap
paratus we rank second, and in male 
students from other states and re
ceipts from endowment we also stand 
second.
This report indicates that among 
the forty-seven approved colleges and 
universities in the State of Pennsyl
vania, Carnegie Tech, after sixteen 
years of existence, ranks among the 
first six in every department. We are 
consistently high. That is something 
for every Carnegie man and woman 
to think about and to take pride in. 
However, one of the most important 
elements of any educational institu
tion was not considered, for it cannot 
be measured in number or dollars, and 
that is the quality of work performed 
in the institution and the type of men 
that come from the institution. And 
after all those are the things that 
build up the reputation of a college 
or university.
Carnegie Tech is ranked by none in 
the quality of work performed and the 
type of men in the institution, and we 
do not wish to stay among the first 
six in the other elements of the school. 
Our endowment is second largest now 
and by 1948 it should be the largest.
MARK DOWNES.
M. M. SOPHS WILL HOLD
BAKE SALE MARCH 15
METER COURSE GIVEN
IN ELECTRICAL DEPT.
In co-oporatlon with tho Duquosne 
Light Company, the Wost Penn Power 
Company, and the United Eloctrlc 
Company, a special short courso in 
Eloctrlc Motor Practico was estab
lished this week'at Carnoglo Tech, for 
employes of these throe companies. 
The onrollmont included 17 students 
appointed by the Duquesno Light Com
pany. two by tho West. Penn Po.wor 
Company, and one by tho Unltod Elec
tric Company. In addition to co-oper
ating in tho conduct of the course, the 
public utility companies represented 
by students have agreed to refund the 
tuition fees to their employes provid
ing the course is completed in a sat
isfactory manner.
The course will be given three 
uights a week for 13 weeks in the 
Department of Electric Equipment 
and Construction, of the College of 
Industries. Two evenings in each
RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL? j week will be devoted to lecture and
On Saturday, March 15, the Soph
omore class of Margaret Morrison 
will hold a bake sale on the second 
floor of the Pittsburgh Market Build
ing.
Last year this same class added 
over eighty dollars to its schplarsliip 
fund by this means. The proceeds 
this year will go into the same fund.
Elizabeth Schwartz was appointed 
general chairman or the sale and 
she has submitted the following list 
of committees which are doing their 
best to make the enterprise just as 
successful this, as it -was last:
Baking and- Buying  Chairman, 
Mary Dale; Betty Bailey, Beryle 
Rankin and Mary Hill.
PublicityChairman, Bertha KegIcy; Margaret Calvert, Geraldine Corblt.
SalesChairman. Rosomond Melllralno; Lucille Anderson and Mable 
McKeo.
recitation periods, and one evening to 
shop work.
Tho object; of the course, according 
to the announcement, is to give a 
more practical training to young men 
attached to the meter service depart
ments of the companies interested, 
and to qualify lie students for cen
tral station meter service work.
Because of the apparent demand for 
such a course, and the wide field avail
able for the expansion of the study, It 
is planned that a similar course will 
be established as a permanent feature 
of the evening courses next year.
NO one smokes 
Melachrinos 
without liking them. 
 for their quality 
instantly wins ap
preciation.
ORIGINALMELACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
He Reached the Top
IHE Vice-President of a great life insurance 
company who began his career as an agent 
has this to say to seniors who are about to 
graduate from college:
If you love work and desire to pursue an honorable, 
useful and lucrative mission in life this is the business 
for you to take up. Life insuraoce salesmanship offers 
a fine field for the energies of the splendid young men in our colleges.
That this is true is demonstrated by those college men 
who have taken up life insurance for they have shown 
that the college man is fit for this kind of a job and 
that the job also is fit for the college man.
The work of the life insurancesalcsman is distinguished . 
by independence and opportunity for directing hisown.
It gives all possible opportunity for individual initiative 
and a chance to make an ample income at an age when 
most fellows are struggling on a wage pittance.
That is the story of one who began ot the bottom and reached 
the top without the help of a college education. The advan. tagcs are with you who graduate from college. Before deciding 
your career make inquiries of the Agency Department.
OWD. PBENFTB. cICYTBH
of Boston. Massachusetts 
Sixty-orteytars in business. Now injuring One Billion Seven Hundred 
Million Dollars in policies on 3,250,000 lives
What is your Verdict?
When you have tried Williams Shaving Cream your 
verdict will be as favorable as is your verdict about the 
new Hinge-Cap. The heavier, faster-working Williams 
lather, the fact that Williams lubricates the skin, the fine 
condition of your face after t^ie shave, these qualities 
make men stick to Williams as faithfully as the HingeCap sticks to the tube. As regards the Hinge-Cap, here 
is an offer we make:
' *250 in Prizes
For tho boat oentenco of ten wordn or less on the value of the 
Willinms Hinge-Cap, we offer the foil owing prizes: 1st prize S100;
2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, S25 each; two -1tli prizes,S10 each ; 
six 5th prizes, ?-5 ench. Any undergraduate or graduate student 
Is eligible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans 
deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount o( the prize will be 
awarded to each. Contest closen at midnight March 14. 192-t. 
Winnorn will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Sub
mit any number of ologons but write on one side of paper only, 
putting name, nddresn, college and class at top of each sheet. 
Address letters to Contest Editor, TheJ.B. Williums Co.,Glustonbury, Conn.
The new Hinge-Cap onWilliamsShavs^ Cream

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 4, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE

J#PLAID ATHLETICS
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
|W. VA. WESLEYAN 
QUINT WINS, 39-23
ANOTHER CHANCE AT PITT
Wednesday night will see the Plaid again engaged in battle royal with 
the Pitt Panther. Followers of the game will remember that Pitt started the 
jinx which has followed the Tartan ever since the new gym was opened. 
But it took an extra period for the Panther to turn the trick, and it is with 
fondest hopes that the Scotch will attempt to beard him in his den at Motor 
Square Garden tomorrow night.
It is a home game for Pitt, and of course will be attended by a large 
crowd of pro-Pitt rooters. The inference is obviouswe must have a large 
crowd there to make our customary show of fine spirit. If you please, WE 
MUST SHOW THE PUBLIC THAT WE ARE WITH OUR TEAM REGARD
LESS OF PAST RECORDS. , .  ,Another thing to remember is that attitude of good sportsmanship. Karl 
Davis, the Pitt graduate manager, complimented us for it after the last game 
with his Alma Mater. Now it is our turn to test the hospitality of Pitt. We 
must not prove to be undesirable guests.The Plebes meet the Pitt Freshmen in a preliminary battle. It is hard 
to imagine a team that has had more tough luck than have the Carnegie 
Plebes. The squad has been riddled from stem to stern by illness, scholastic 
ineligibility of good players, and one thing and another throughout the sea
son. Hardly two games have been started with the same lineup. Coach 
Irwin must be given credit for developing as good a team as he lias presented.
It looks as though, as far as basket ball is concerned, 1924 might just as 
well be scratched off the almanac. All that we can do now is to build, for 
next year and the years after that. The present season is a total loss, but 
to every action there is an opposite and equal reaction, as they tried to 
teach us in Physics, and future years will no doubt see a return of real 
basket ball form at Carnegie. For the present, let us give our team our best; 
they are giving us theirs.
BILL PEET VS. PLAID SCREEN
The above came near being the title of our feature this week: We
accidentally misspelled Bills name in our last splurge, and we got wind 
that he was after us with a murderous implement that might possibly be 
more deadly than the pen. This  columnist was all prepared to barricade 
himself behind a defense of impregnable verbosity. But subsequent events 
seem to indicate that Bill was only, only foolin,; (Did you read what he 
called us in the Sunday paper?) and so we now'come forth from hiding 
secure in the fact that Bill Peet and we are still friends.
Jinx Continues to Follow 
Plaid Machine as Bobcats 
Triumph
GROVE CITY PASSERS  W P I A I GAMFS 
CHALKUP VICTORY TQ qPEN JONITE
ALLEGHENY AND GENEVA
The flashy Allegheny College team was met on the Tartan floor last 
night, but the details are not available for publication in this issue due to the 
fact that the Tartan goes to press early Monday.
Geneva will be here to play a return engagement with the Plaid on Fri
day night. The visitors were victorious in that fray, but may find the going
rough on the Tartans home floor.__________________________________________________
The Singer Pen & Girt Shop in the 
Jenkins Arade will give you reason
able prices on caMing cards, dance
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
Assurance
Wherever there is a banking 
center this bank is known. 
Those travelers availing 
themselves of Mellon letters 
of credit, or travelers checks 
are assured of the recogni
tion which follows identifica
tion with well and favorably 
known banking interests.
Mellon National BankPi11 sbuffdh, Pa.
Bsllefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
ABILITY 
The ABILITY of an insurance 
agent or broker is proven after 
a loss and the result of the loss 
adjustment is the foundation of 
his future success. At this time 
personality and friendship are 
forgotten. Skill, knowledge and 
service: count.
Put Your Insurance In Safe 
Hands.
JOS. P. FISHER AGENCY 
Established 1886 
PITTSBURGH 
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554
Last Saturday night the jinx follow
ing the Plaid tossers since the mid
year exams, cut another notch in the 
butt of his gun. West Virginia Wesleyans white clad tossers defeated 
Carnegie by a score of 39 to 23, the 
visitors displaying a superior game in 
the two middle periods. Jimmy Rob
ertson and Midge Matter were the out
standing figures in the Plaid lineup, 
with'Mohrman playing his consistent 
good game.
Despite the fact that the bobcats 
were handed a stinging defeat on the 
previous night by Duquesne Univer
sity, the'West Virginia huskies played 
a brand of basket ball that rivals any 
the new gymnasium has seen.
Several seconds after the whistle 
blew, Robertson dropped in the first 
score of the game from the foul line, 
and followed it an instant later with 
a field goal. Wesleyan soon found 
themselves and tallied with a few nice 
shots from the center of the floor. 
After a fairly even tussle the quarter 
ended with West Virginia on the best 
side of a 12-10 score.
During the next two periods Car
negie was completely outclassed. It 
was at this time that the visitors displajred their best game and got a lead 
of nearly twenty points on the Plaid. 
A sensational shooting attack was be
gun from the center of the floor, with 
Knight slipping away twice to get 
quick passes under the basket and 
shoot a goal unmolested, and with 
Ashworth caging a neat one from cen
ter followed by two free-throw points 
apiece from Knight and Kraus, sum
med up to give W6sleyan ten points 
more.
The third quarter found the Tartans 
no better off than did the previous 
period. Four chances to "score from 
the foul , line were lost, while the 
Methodists added ten more points in 
the form of four field goals and a 
pair of fouls. Binkinan again added 
to the lead by caging three field goals 
in rapid succession, showing a flash 
of speed and good judgment. Robert
son was put back into the game after 
a short absence and broke up several 
plays that would have set the Plaid 
further behind.
In the flual period the Tartan ma
chine got going once more and scored 
13 points to the visitors' 7. Midge" 
Matter, Carnegies speedy little forDAVIES and HUGHES
cTVlENS WEARo
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
Dress Soste to
You Cant Outgrow Your DRESS 
CLOTHES If You KENT Them.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield 0341 Hours8:30-5:30
TENUS
'PENCILS
tjfa larjeit liUinj QmfiYy 
jxncil in the wild
COR the atudcntor prof., the 
superb VENUS oiit-rivnlo 
all for perfect pcneil work. 
17 black degrees3 copying. 
American Lead
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus..............- - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
What a whale of a difference 
just a few cents make ! 
all the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette 
andFATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.
The Tartan cngers Journeyed to 
Grove City Friday and while they did 
not bring homo the bacon, the Grov- j 
ers knew they had been up against 
some stiff opposition. The final score 
was 26-1S in favor of the home team.
Carnegie again presented a different 
lineup from those of previous games, 
due to the fact that "Mut Mohrman, 
stellar guard, could not make the trip. 
Captain Jimmy Anderson was shifted 
to guard, while Reed and Matter held 
down the forward positions. This 
combination could not get going in the 
first half, but they found themselves 
in the second half and made things 
merry for the Grove City passers, who 
are rated one of the best in Western 
Pennsylvania. They have a veteran 
team this year, and have not forgotten 
lacings the Skibos handed them the 
past two years. Consequently, they 
played exceptionally hard to winand 
they had to. ^
The home team got the lead at the 
start and were never headed, though 
at times in the second half the Tar
tans crept dangerously near. The 
wonderful teamwork of the Grovers, 
however, told in the end and Car
negie was forced to take another beat
ing.
Anderson played even better at 
guard than he does at forward, while 
Midge Matter made his presence felt 
in the game by caging three doubledeckers. The lineup:
Grove City Carnegie Tech.
Fleming.............. F.......................Matter
Stevens................ F..........................Reed
Fay...................... C...........................Cook
Cuerra................ G..................Anderson
Jones................... G.........................Becde
Grove City .................... 1G 1026
Tech ............................... 10 818
SubstitutionsRobertson for Beede. 
Field goalsFleming 5, Stevens 3,
Jones, Matter 3, Reed, Anderson, Rob
ertson. Foul goalsGrove City, 8 
out of 15; Tech, 6 out of 9. Referee 
Bolster.
PLEBES HAVE HARD LUCK 
AS BEAVERS WIN, 24-22
Games Played in New Gym 
WillDetermineHigh 
School Champions
ward, played a brilliant gamo in the 
last session, many times getting the
ball' from Wesleyan and making much
of the Plaids scoring possible. Cap
tain Jimmy Andergan began to get 
his famous long range shots working, 
and things wero brightening up for 
the Skibos just before the pistol shot 
marked the end of the game.
W. Va. Wesleyan39 Tech23
Brinkman............... F.....................Matter
Ashworth.............. F. ............'.Anderson
Knight................... C.......................Rood
Kraus.................... G................Mohrman
Corcoran.............. G...............Robertson
Score by periods. 12 10 10 739
Tech .............. 10 0 0 1323
SubstitutionsCook for Rood, Good
win for Cook, Reed for Robertson, 
Cook for Goodwin, Beede for Rood. 
Reed for Matter, Robertson for Cook, 
Matter for Anderson, Anderson for 
Mohrman, Bullman for Ashworth. 
Field goalsMatter 2, Anderson 2. 
Robertson 3, Brinkman 5, Ashworth 
3, Knight (i, Bullman. FoulsMatter, 
4 out of (!'; Anderson, 0 out of 2; Rood, 
1 out of 2; Mohrman, 1 out of 2; 'Rob
ertson, 2 out of <1; Goodwin, 0 out of 
3; Cook, 0 out of 2; Brinkman, I out 
of 1; Ashworth, 5 out of 8; Knight, 2 
out of 2; Kraus, 2 out of 2; Corcoran,
I out of 1. Team foulsWosloyan,
II out of 141 Carnegie Tech, 9 out of 
25. Time of periods, 10 minutes. ReferceBeggs Snydor. UmpireWostlako.
Tonight will be played the first of 
the series of basket ball games which 
will decide the championship of the 
high schools of Western Pennsylvania. 
The tournament will continue for nine 
days and will take place in the now 
Carnegie Tech gymnasium. The dates 
as announced by W. P. 1. A. L. otllcials 
are March 4, 5, (5, 8. 10, 13, 15, and 
19; and the finals will be played on 
March 22.
The winners in the different sec
tions of the Western Pennsylvania In
terscholastic Athletic League have 
been decided and they are us follows:
City SectionAllegheny.
Section 1Tarentum.
Section 2Edgewood.
Section 3Connellsville.
Section 4New Brighton.
Section 5Monesson.
Section GFord City.
Section 7Homestead.
Section SMcKees Rocks.
It is felt that with the splendid fa
cilities Carnegie has for handling an 
event of this sort the tournamont 
should be a success from every point 
of view. It is especially desirable that 
the high school men who are among 
us during the series should be well 
cared for. To this end, the various 
fraternities will house the players who 
find it advisable to remain in Pitts
burgh over night.
The schedule of the first round is 
as follows:
March 4Edgewood vs. Ford City.
March 5Allegheny vs. Monosseu.
March GMcKees Rocks vs. Home
stead.
March 8Tarentum vs. Conuellsville.
March 10New Brighton vs. win
ner of Edgewood-Ford City gamo.
The second round will bo played on 
March 13 and 15; and the semi-finals 
on March 19. The series ends with 
the contest for the Western Pennsyl
vania championship on March 22.
Saturday night the Plebos lost a 
hard fought game to the Beaver High 
School quintet, by the score of 22-24.
The Plebes load throe quarters of 
the gamo; the score at the end of 
the first half was 22-19 in favor of the 
Plaid and they load right up to the 
last five minutes.
The Beaver live played good ball 
and came from behind with a final 
spurt which won them the gamo. Al
though the visitors played a good 
brand oi! basket ball the Plebos out
played them.
Wally Lynch at forward, Hamilton 
at center, and Forbes at guard, all 
played a good gaiuo for the Plebes 
and sharod in the scoring honors.
The Tartan Plebes wind up their 
season with a gamo against the Pitt 
Freshies, and if this game is won by 
the Plebes their many losses will bo 
forgotten.
PLAID IS VICTIM 
OF W, & J. FIVE
Carnegie Fights to Keep the 
Lead But Presidents Tri
umph, 23-18
RIFLE CLUB SMOKER
TO STIMULATE INTEREST
As announcod last woolc, the Rlllo 
Club is going to have a smokor and 
get-togothor mooting in Room GO Sci
ence building, at 7:30 on Friday ovonIng, March 7.
This mooting should bo of particu
lar Intorost to those who wish to join 
the rlllo club, and thoso who wish to 
corno out for the rlfio toam, and tlius 
obtain athletic recognition. Evoryono 
interested Is cordially Invited to at
tend this mooting. There aro to bo 
no chaigos.
This past woolc the rlfio toam shot 
a prone match with Colgato Univer
sity, but an. yet the scoro has not boon 
announcod. Another match of In torost to all Is the ono to bo shot with 
the Unlvorslty of Pittsburgh on 
Tochs range thin coming Thursday 
afternoon, 'Phis match (In to bo, In 
I.ho sitting position, II. In to ho hoped 
that wo lmvo the same ENICC that, 
wo had in our rocont. matclrwlth Pitt, 
which was held at tholr rahgo.
For next woolc the N. R. A, Intorcolloglato matches are scheduled an 
well as a match with Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology.
IRWIN TO MEET VARSITY
BALL CANDIDATES TODAY
Coach A1 Irwin of the baseball 
team will meot the varsity battery 
candidates this afternoon at 4:30 in 
Langley Lab.
Irwin is anxious to get his dia
mond aggregation started and wants 
to give battery candidates a little 
special attention before the start of 
general practice.
It is to be understood that this call 
is for varsity battery candidates 
only; fielders should not report.
WHAT ABOUT WEDDING BELLS?
Yes, maam, the old salt confidod 
to tlio Inquisitivo lady, I foil ovor the 
side of the ship, and a shark came 
along and grabbed mo by the log.
Merciful providence, Ills hearer 
gasped. And what did you do?
Lot him have the leg, o course, 
maam. I*nover argues with harlcs. 
Geneva College.
"When a motion picture star takos 
on flesh, she Is no longer a star.
And you biteWhy not?
Because she Is then a little meat
ier."Bucknellian.
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
j PitXVA2XVO 3TE,.43T11S P
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.Acacia .....................................................23
Beta Theta Pi ......................................W9
Beta Sigma Rho .................................16
Acacia .....................................................32
Beta Theta Pi ....................................23
Beta Sigma Rho .................................30
League Standing.
Team. Games.
Acacia ............................................................................ 4
Alpha Tau Omega ............................................. ' * ! 3
Beta Sigma RI10 ......................................................... 4
Kappa Sigma RI10 ................................................... 3
Beta Theta Pi ..................... 4
McGill ............................................................................ 3
Delta Upsilon .............................................................. 4
Delta Chi RI10 ............................................................. 5
Kappa Sigma RI10 ............................. 8
Delta- Upsilon .......................................13
Delta Upsilon ...................................... G
McGill ................................................... G
Delta Chi tyho ....................................... 3
Delta Chi Rho ...................................... 7
W.
4
3
3
2
2
1
0
0
Pet.
1.000
1.000
.750
.GGG
.500
.333
.000
.000
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
Iota Sigma Delta ...............................10 : Delta Phi Delta
League Standing.
Kappa Epsilon
Sigma
FEDERAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Play-.
Delta Mu .............................................12 | Henderson
League Standing.Team.
PI Kappa Alpha .......................................................
Games.W.L.Pet.
4401 000
2201.000
422,fi00
211.r.oo
211.[00
fi23.400
3J2.333
104.000
Cd.
Games.W.L.Pet.
2201.000
1101.000431.750
321.GGG321.GGG
523.400413.250404.000
MEETING OF ALL TRACK
CANDIDATES4:30 TODAY
There will be a meeting of all track 
candidates for both Varsity and Fresh
man teams this afternoon at 4:30 In 
the Varsity Clan clubroom in the field 
house.
Conch Guy Halferty will meet the 
candidatos and outline some features 
of his coaching policy at the meeting. 
Assistant managers as well as candi
dates should report at the time men
tioned.
If the weather is suitable, thoro may 
be a short worlcout. A largo squad is 
hoped for, as there are loss than a 
half-dozen letter men in school at the 
present time.
Ill bite, what is it? said 0110 mos
quito to another as they landed 011 a 
mummy.
RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL?
' Smiles right 
back, itt 
rau!
Mah-Jong
Country By Stoi
brlalit color,torn, H vmiHii, ^ ruIon mid III- (I) H mo <11111 ktiirn  I
i
In Taking tho Country By Storm
A complot- nut In bright colorii,1 -14 tltloii, 1111 count illc-ol book of nil nlriiotloiui : imjr one <mn lonrit Ilio unrnn In Inn ml mi lo.  t*t Vory finid nntlnif. AH  > t* li-m-llvo box, nonti iiroimbl on ronolpt of 31.00 ((umilili 2(i 
ox t ni).
Table Covers
!! C 
o P
Vory Al.trnnllvo IJInolc Silicon Mi.U-Jomc ' Cabin Clovor, with 
'colored drnicoii (IoiiIkiiii, iidJiwU 
iddo to uny nleo curd tiihlo 1 10 
counter pouliolii, ntrllilnit color
ed nlltclind oduoa. Kxlmordlmiry 
VnlliO. Hpocllilprion...................................
COMBINATION OFFER
Wo will mind propuld ono boinplolo MitliJoiik not nnd tnblo cover 1111 deuarllioil 
ilbove on receipt of $2.(10,
Chlnn-Amorlonn Importing Co.arr mi!I faoIrt o IAii a LiU MNAP
G
Showing signs of shaking off tho 
jinx which has been 011 their trail all 
season the Sklbo quintet gave the W. 
& J. basket tossors tho scare of tho 
season last Wednesday night when 
they met in tho now gymnasium.
At tho beginning of tho first period 
the Tartans got tho jump on tho Pres
idents scoring seven points to tho ono 
point scored by the Rod and Black. 
The Plaid seemed to have everything 
their own way and scored at will, tho 
Presidents were dumfounded, could 
not find tho basket when they had tlio 
opportunity to score, while Anderson 
and Matter, tho two 'lleety forwards 
of tho Skibos wore dropping them 
through the hoop from all angles of 
tho floor. Tho Tartans kept up this 
pace' during the entire period of tho 
first half, and when the whistle blew 
for tho ending of the period tho Ski
bos wore leading by a score of 14 to 
tho Presidents 7.
The second half the Red nnd Black 
realized the opposition that confront
ed thom, nnd came back to grip tho 
coveted load but the Tartans wero 
still outplaying them, the third quar
ter ending with an 18-13 scoro in their 
favor. Tho final .period found tho 
Presidents unraveling all their knowl
edge of basket ball and completely 
outplayed tho Plaid. With tlie scoro 
1S-17 Fredericks sent the leather 
through the hoop for tho desired load. 
During this period W. & J. scored 10 
points while they hold tho Plaid 
8coroloss. The final whistle brought 
tho Washlngtonltes a 23 to IS victory.
Carlin and Boynton wore tho stars 
for tho visitors while Matter carrlod 
away tho honors for tho Plaid.
Lineup:
W. & J23 Tech18
Wild................... F.......................Matter
Eaton................. F..................Andorson
Thomas.............. C...........................Rood
Nolhaus.............. G...................Mohrman
Fredricks.......... G.................Robertson
Scoro by periods:
W. & J..................... I. fi G 1023
Carnegie Tech___ 7 7 4 018
mmmAfter Every Meal 
IPs lilac longest-lasting confection you can buy 
and its a hellj to di
gestion and a cleanser 
tor the mouth and teeth. mArErrcys mc!tM atcucErrI ar Uirr mm priasuAi.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings 
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan SquareEast Liberty
Distg!id ENA Ihi puApNsi NE bAt!gt!g IN yNu Ihi Iypi NE crNIhis NbIat!abri hiAiINENAi N!ry t! IhNsi ixcrustvi shNps NE LN!dN! a!d LiU MNAP.
A Dunshire Suit embodies those peculiar 
and distinctive touches associated with good 
taste  wide trousers, full sleeves, soft rolling 
lapels, high cut vest and all round comfort.
Duns hire s a SutI Uhtch tmmidtaIiry sIamp* Ihi UiaAiA as bit!g Uirr dAissid.
You know the suit!
aAsk fur foVNSUlRE Clothes
8olc Distributor In Pittsburgh and Vicinity.
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
Smithfield Street and Seventh Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 4, 1924
rALUMNI PAGEr
The Field of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College
By Director Mary B. Breed.
Graduates of Carnoglo who aro ques
tioned about tlio Margaret Morrison 
Carnoglo College by prospective stu
dents probably boar Bomo like tlio fol
lowing: "What are tlio entrance ro
il ulreraonts?" "How much dooa It, 
cost for the year?" "How long 13 tbo 
course? 'Wliiit can I do whon 1 
"graduate?
The entrance requirements to the 
Margaret Morrlsloh are the samo in 
all courses and Include fifteen unltB 
of. high Bchool preparation, of which 
only two units may bo In vocational 
subject cooking, sowing, shorthand, 
typewriting, bookkeeping and draw
ing. Two units of either Latin, 
French, or Bomo other modern lan
guage Is required, and one and onehalf units of algebra and ono unit of 
geometry. Students who have not en
tirely fulfilled the entrance require
ments are admitted with cohditions, 
provided their high school record Is 
satisfactory In other respects.
For the girl who P3 obliged to earn 
a part of her expenses, w provide an 
employment bureau, but it,Is advis
able that students should not attempt 
to earn much money during the first 
year of their college course. For tui
tion and the student activities feo, two 
hundred dollars is charged, aB In the 
other colleges of Carnegie. The womon's dormitories provide room and 
board at rates which vary according 
to tbo room. Four hundred dollars, 
however, Is usually enough to cover 
all necessary expenses for room and 
three meals a day, light, heat, etc.
The Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
Ooege givos a groat deal of Instruc
tion In the samo general subjects as 
are taught in academic colleges, but 
In addition to giving a well rounded
college education It prepares all of It 
graduates to hold remunerative posi
tions. At the present tihie short 
courses are offered to special mature 
students, or graduates of other col
leges, but students directly from high 
school spend four years to get the 
B. B. degree,
Homo Economics is ono of the most 
popular of our courses. Secretarial 
Studies probably comes next. Loss 
popular, but equally valuable, are the 
coursos In Social Work, Library Train
ing, Generai Science, and tbo Secre
tarial course with English Minor. 
These latter, In some cases, lead to 
even mro interesting positions than 
tlio courses that are better known.
Graduates of the Margaret Morri
son College find no dilllculty In secur
ing good positions. They must, of 
course, begin as Inexperienced work
ers, and salaries frequently begin as 
low as ninety dollars a month, al
though the average at beginning is 
probably a good deal higher than that. 
The Beale of salaries in Social "Work 
and Library Work is now improving 
from year to year. Secretarial poBitions pay more or less according to 
business conditions In the country.
All but a very small per cent of tlio 
Margaret Morrison graduates take 
paid positions for a year or more af
ter graduation. In fact, it Is the fash
ion to do so, and girls of the present 
day who fail to get a little experience 
in a paid position are "behind the 
times." How long they stay in their 
positions depends somewhat on tlio 
persuasive powers of certain men 
friends. Sooner or later most of them 
go into horlies of their own, and they 
are unanimous In their opinions that 
their college education makes them 
better wives, housekeepers, and moth
ers.
SPEAKERS ENGAGED
FOR SCIENCE STAG
(Contlnuedi From Page One,) 
mont; A. H. Blaisdell, Profossor in 
the Mechanical Engineering Dopnrljnent; It, V. Davis, Y. M. C. A. Sec
retary, and T. N. Griggs, President 
of the Student Council.
Largo Sl'lver Loving Cup.
Those men will liavo the honor of 
bostowirtg upon the class producing 
the cleanest, cleverest and most 
unique entertainment the large sil
ver loving) cuii), which has been do
nated1 for this purpose by1 the Cai' 
nogio Y. M. C. A. til rough Mr, 
Davis.
Popularity Content.
Duo to the fact that the Thistle 
Board is not going to publish the 
jpVvpularlty contorti, results In, the 
Year Book, (lie .Science Stag Commil (.tee luiu agreed lo iute their elec
tion results for the Sclonoo Stag 
popularity contest. The winners of 
tlio various popularity roles will lie 
disclosed nI. the stag on March IB, 
and appropriate pri/.on will bn 
awarded the lucky winners. The 
.Engineering Seniors will probably 
draw a, majority of the winners of 
this contest.
C. M. STAU IT
3001 FORBES STREET 
Artlntn' and Engineer* Mate
rial, Stationery and Conerai 
Supplirti for Studontn.
Datilom
"Wlmt uro you doini*, Pytl wrlthiff Her miotliur lettor ?"
Pythas
"Nonoi tlds timo. Sorathlng more lo tlio polnt, s one would say. lm vvritlni? ilio Putor to scuci mo il dozcii Eldorado pencils. Tliey aru all sold out dowu ut tlio storc."
ELdSo
Ifie master drawingpendi'
17 l<Mdtai/ Jealert
Pilcbcs to Spring Surprlco.
The writer has secured a confi
dential Inkling as to the nature- of 
the entertainment which tbo Plebes 
will produce. They aro going to 
spring a surprise andl will attempt 
to repeat the victory performance 
of last years Plebos. Tlio upper 
.classes had hotter speed up else 
tlio class- of 1927 will be the ilrst 
to have Its name engraved on the 
silver cup. The faculty has not as 
yet disclosed the nature of their 
performance.
Tickets for the :i!)24 stag will be 
placed on sale in the dBngliieerJlag 
Collogo Monday, March tenth.
BRIDGE BENEFIT TO BE
HELD THIS SATURDAY
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
Stevenson, Miss ltutli Kolser, Mrs, 
Clifford, Glass, Mrs. C. A. Goodwin, 
Mrs. Clyde Armstrong, Miss Grace 
Patterson, Mh\s Louise Irwin, Miss 
Helen Dorman, Miss Adolo Gumhert 
Miss Eleanor Fostor, Mrs. .Tames J. 
Dyer, Miss Gortrudo Bradshaw, Miss 
Virginia Wilcox, Mrs. Roy Adams, 
Miss Henrietta Stewart, Miss Elly,li
bel,h Taylor,- Miss Phylls MoMarlin, 
Mins Margaret Blnguunnn, Mis
Ethel Cummings, jMrs. H, A. Earl,
Mrs. Aru J. Miller, Mrs. William 1), 
Sloppy, I lie Women's Faculty- Club, 
Miss Melon Lauder, Mrs. ,T. 11,
Hershberger, Miss Madeline Dale,
Miss Ell'/aboth Kiefer, Miss Emma 
Hell llauch, Miss Margaret Carson 
amli Mlsu Harriot Morwln,
DR. R. V. WHEELER
WILL SPEAK HERE
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
lures .In The Union, tlio most con
venient and largest hall on the cam
pus. Both locturos are announced for 
8:30. No cards of admission will bo 
required to attend.
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pltt and' 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
Ageing in wood takes time
and costs us lots more money, 
but it gives you better tobacco
Velvet is made from the best Kentucky 
Burley tobacco money can buy, and every 
bit of it thoroughly aged in wood, it is 
mild, fine ilavored and smokes cool. 
Ueinoinboruged in wood.
THEATER PARTY OF 
ALUMNAE THURS.DO YOU KNOW? j
The Bolted Door Will be 
the Offering of the Drama 
Department
Members of the M, M. Alumnae As
sociation recently received cards an
nouncing that the long anticipated 
Alumnae Party in the Little Theater 
would bo given In the College of Fino 
Arts, on Thursday evening, March 
Oth. The students of the Department 
of Drama will then present: The
Bolted Door", a inelo-drama by Clara 
Hardy Jarrett and Thomas Wood 
Stovens.
It proved Impossible to secure tlio 
entire houBe for the evening, there
fore the distribution of tickets had to 
be limited to two for each Alumna. 
Mrs. Mildred Spencer is chairman of 
the committee and requests for tick
ets, should bo sent to her in care of 
tlio Alumni office at the school, accom
panied by a solf-addressed and 
stamped envelope. Indications, as the 
Carnegie Tartan goeB to press are 
that there will be few of the tickets 
left for late comers.
Donations of candy for sale at tlio 
theater party will be very -welcome 
and it is hoped that as 
many as possible will re
spond. Packages may be left at 
the Alumni Olllee in care of Mrs. 
Spencer. Should it be impossible 
to leave them there, please call 
Mrs. Spencer, S'clienley 2G00, and ar
rangements will be made to have the 
donation called for.
That Dr. Baker says we need more 
English and more Economics in our 
courses here at Carnegie Tech? He 
Is quite right In his statement about 
the English, for we are having a ter
rible time figuring out the right way 
to write articles for the Tartan.
That the Arts Ball has been set for 
March 2ist?
That the Clans In Akron, Cleveland 
and Youngstown are trying to get bet
ter organization?
That the Glee Club is going to sing 
a big Choral Number at the Home 
Concert?
That 112 Alumni have responded to 
the cards they recently received from 
the Carnegie Tartan?
Senior Architects 
In for Scholarship
CAMPUS COMMENTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
though, I think that the girls are 
cuter than the men!"
Ruth Powell, another Maggie Murph 
PJebe, thinks "that the men at Pitt 
are nicer than the men at Carnegie; 
because, the ones I know best are 
from Pltt, which probably accounts 
for my opinion. And thats strange, 
too, dont you think, that we should 
know the Pitt fellow's better than we 
know the ones on our own campus?"
Gretchon Hoffman, of the College 
of Fino Arts, says:
"The boys In Arts College are more 
congenial and easior to know than the 
other men on the campus. I think, 
though, tuat every Carnegie man re
alizes what ho bus come after, and is 
going out to gel, it; They aro all 
serious minded."
Erba Long, Maggie Milrpli 27, says: 
"Somo of them aro very nice, but 
"somo" of them aro all wo Plebos aro 
acquainted with, Wo do not have 
chances to moot very many of them, 
and I think this condition is the ono 
that noods to bo corrected."
Then, Dot Diamond, of tlio Collogo 
of FI no Arts, says:
"I think wo have as nice a bunch of 
follows as any olhor school, but I 
abio think of the onos wo have, the 
men from tlio Collogo of Fino Arts 
are more In sympathy with the girls, 
and that they eo-operato a whole lot 
better."
An honest opinion Is good for the 
soul I
PARRY HELPS IN COAI. 
INVESTIGATION HERE
Pu99,44 b A,FE tIUTI cIM
The regular Pittsburgh bed coal is 
considerably a better low-tomperature 
coking coal than the Upper ICIttaiining 
eoal, according to J. D. Davis, Fuels 
Chemist of the U. S. Bureau of Mines 
and Y. Frank Parry, Research Fellow 
of Carnegie Tech, in their published 
report of research studies on "The 
Low-Temperature Carbonization of 
Pennsylvania Coals.
The report by Messrs. Davis and 
Parry is Bulletin No. 8 in a new series 
of four published reports of coal-mining investigations conducted under 
the auspices of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, the U. S. Bureau of 
Mines, and an advisory board of coal 
mine operators and engineers. The 
advisory board not only suggested the 
problems for investigation, but 
financed the publication of the reports.
Research on the low-temperature 
carbonization of coal has .been in 
progress for a number of years, says 
the report, the main object being, to 
produce a coke more suitable for do
mestic use than the high temperature 
product of the gas works and coke 
oven, and at the same time to effec^ 
a higher recovery of constituents in 
the tar oils. Much valuable data lias 
been accomulatod, but this has not as 
yet led to any industrial development 
worth mentioning in the United 
States,
"In Germany, during the war, resonreh on low-temperature tar oils was 
carried on intensively on account of 
tlio demand for lubripants, substitutes 
for mineral oils, which can bo made 
from refined tars. Obviously there 
must exist a definite demand for lowtemporuturo prod Hots before any ex
tensive development of the method 
can bo expected. The abundant sup
ply of potroloum In the United Slates, 
and like supply of coal suitable for 
hlgh-temporaturo cooklngi, would seem 
to preclude competition of low-temperature products in either field in the 
near future.
"There is, however, a strong possi
bility of better utilization of waste 
coals and coals of inferior rank by 
low-temperature methods, and this 
phase of the subject should bo a fruit
ful field for research. Further, the 
utilization of low-temperature tar oils 
for special purposes, as, for example, 
for the preservation of timber, is a 
reasonable expectation; as is also the 
improvement of liigh-temperature 
coke by preliminary low-temperature
Winner to be Given Chance 
for Foreign Study
A nmniber of Carnegie architectural 
Seniors and graduates will be enter
ed! in this years competition for the 
John Stewardson Memorial Scholar
ship in Architecture. Several appli
cations have already been filed, and 
it is expected that a fairly large 
number of others will be sent from 
the local institution before March 
8, the closing, date. |
The Stewardson scholarship is 
open only to Pennsylvanians, and. stu
dents and architects between* the 
ages of 23 and 30, who have prac
ticed in this state for at least one 
year immediately preceding the schol
arship award.
The showing of the Carnegie rep
resentatives will be watched with 
more than usual interest this year 
because of the fact that Carnegie 
graduates have won the Stewardson 
scholarship three times in the past 
five years. In 1916, Norman 
Lewis Rubin, a Carnegie Tech grad
uate, was the winner, Russell S. 
Simpson, another Carnegie graduate^ 
Winding third place in the award. 
In 1921, Russell S. Simpson was 
awarded the scholarship, with Luth
er S. Laslnnit, a Carnegie Tech 
graduatp, -winning second place. The 
award last year also went to a Car
negie graduate, Otto M. Olsen, win-, 
ning the prize, and George N. Pauly, 
who also represented the local school, 
taking, fifth place.
The scholarship's value is one 
thousand dollars, the holder to pur
sue the study of architecture in this 
or foreign countries as determined 
by the committee and under its di
rection.
ALUMNUS WILL 
HEAD 4-YEAR 
TOURING BODY
Party of Twenty Will Seek 
Odd Places of Earth to 
Take MoviesWrite Stories 
to Use Inland Waterways
SAILING 140 FOOT BOAT
RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL7
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
WILL MEET AND EAT
'Ilio Commons will be the scone of 
a got-togothor of the local graduates 
and former students of the Chemical 
Engineering Department next Friday 
evening, March 7, at ( p. m. Dr. ,T. H. 
.Tamos will be prosent and will Intro
duce Mr. A. E. Marshall of Baltimore. 
Everyone will go through the line 
Dutch treatand assemblo at certain 
tables.
The classes of 21 ana '22 are back 
of tlio mooting and expect all the 
others to co-operate in making it n 
success. An attempt will be made to 
form some kind of an organization.
After the dinned the party will procoed to Room 209 Science Building to 
hear Mr. Marshalls lecture on "Me
chanical Methods of Handling Chem
ical Plant Materials.
treatment. These points have yet to 
be proved industrially practicable.
"The total amount of crude light 
oil suitable for motor fuel that was 
obtained directly from Pittsburgh or 
Freeport coal by distillation at 550 
degrees C., and by cracking is approx
imately 7.1 gallons per ton, or 2.6 per 
cent by weight of the coal.
"Superheated steam has an eifect 
upon the by-product of low-tempera
ture carbonization. The tars obtained 
were more viscous, and contained a 
smaller amount of light oils and a 
larger amount of heavy oils. The 
amount of the by-products obtained by 
carbonizing with superheated steam 
was practically the same as without 
steam. The steam prevented second
ary decomposition to some extent."
LIKE WHIMSICAL WOMEN?
Touring the seven seas and several 
inland water routes in a  140 foot 
schooner seems almost an impossibil
ity, but Barry Buchannan has plans 
almost completed for just such a trip. 
A two-masted schooner with an auxil
iary engine and a party of twenty peo
ple will complete the outfit. They 
plan to leave on the trip, which will 
take four years, about the first of 
June.
Alexander Lewellyn Buchannan, 
born and reared in the Pittsburgh dis
trict, graduated from Peabody High 
School and entered The College of 
Fine Arts in February, 1917. He 
graduated in the class of 1920 with a 
B. A. degree in the School of Drama. 
While at Carnegie, he was a captain 
in the R. O. T. C. and entered as a 
private during the World War. He 
is a member of the Lambda Chi Alpha 
fraternity. Since graduation, Mr. Bu
channan has located at G16ucester, 
N. J., where he became a member of 
the Players Club and is a scenic art
ist and stage director.
The party will consist of four or five 
students of Dartmouth college, four 
seamen, and artists in different lines 
of work with Mr. Buchannan as 'the 
head of the party. TWo of the party 
will be women, Mrs. Carl Ackely, a 
hunter of note and wife of the curator 
of the New York Museum of Natural 
History. The name of the other wo
man Mr. Buchannan has not revealed, 
but he states that she is a writer for 
the stage and screen.
The party plans to visit, write, and 
photograph unusual places. Places 
from where we at present have had 
little written about. ,A moving pic
ture man will accompany the party, 
and under Mr. Buchannans personal 
direction will supply reels of film for 
news and educational pictures which 
will be shipped from all big ports of 
call. The whole affair is purely an 
artists financial venture and is not 
subsidized by any museum or geo
graphical society. Mr. Buchannan has 
consented to write articles for publi
cation and collect curios for manufac
turing firms and collectors. Each 
member of the party, except the four 
seamen and a colored chef, will have 
a definite work to perform.
The party plans to visit the Ever
glades in Florida, passing up Mexico, 
they will go through the Panama Ca
nal and proceed up thq Western Coast 
as far as Alaska. Exploring some of 
the islands in the Aleutian Chain 
they will proceed to visit Japan, Caro
lina Islands, Yap, Guam and Australia. 
Returning to Singapore they plan to 
explore China, and then up the Yang 
Tso and Yellow Rivers. France, Italy, 
and Spain aro the only countries of 
Europe to be visited.
The boat has been selected, and the 
month of Juno is thought to be the 
Ideal month to start. By setting this 
date Mr. Buchannan expects to have 
all plans for the four year cruise com
plete.
When the Maggie Murphs gave a 
Leap Year cotillion? 1908.
When the Glee Club gave three 
home concerts at the Music Hall? 
1908.
When the men invaded the Maggie 
Murph building and made the teach
ers break up the classes, and danced 
with the girls? 1908.
When a Carnegie graduate of 1909 
was hunted all over the world by 
members of the Crucible Club, in 
which the members were pledged to 
keep together after graduating? They 
found him in Alaska, doing mining 
work1911.
When the Tech Baby was being 
sought. This child was to be the first 
child born to the members of the first 
class, that of 1908. The contest was 
carried on in 1911, and the Tartan 
the other day spoke about ^hunting 
for the Eskimo Baby. Perhaps it is 
the same child.
When the Drama Department was 
founded just ten years ago in Feb
ruary1914?
DEPT. OF METALLURGY 
OFFERS FELLOWSHIPS
Musical Students Give 
Historical Recital
First of Series Illustrative of 
Transitional Period
The Department of Metallurgy and 
Mining of Carnegie Institute is offer
ing four fellowships in metallurgical 
research in conjunction with the 
United States Bureau of Mines. The 
fellowships are open to graduates of 
universities, colleges or technical 
schools who are qualified to under
take the scientific research. Those 
appointed will be paid the sum of 
$750 for the ten months work.
-As a result of wider co-operation 
With the United. States Bureau of 
Mines, the institute is offering four 
fellowships for the investigation of 
problems of ferrous metallurgy. Dr. 
Lyon, Director of the Pittsburgh Sta
tion of the Bureau of Mines, origin
ated the. plan. I-Ie has promised to 
bring to Pittsburgh some of the bu
reaus leading men, together with a 
considerable amount of machinery 
necessary to carry on the research 
if Carnegie will create at least four 
fellowship's to assist in the work.
The advisory board, composed of 
representative men from the metalmaking and metal-using industries of 
the Pittsburgh district, approved of 
the plan and the four fellowships are 
being offered as the result. This 
offer marks another contribution to 
scientific research by the institute, 
In making this offer it shows that 
it .is interested not only in turning 
out well trained men but also that 
it is interested in aiding, materially, 
in solving some of the many pro
blems that confront the metallurgical 
indiuistry. The plan will be the means 
of 'bringing, Carnegie into closer re
lationship* with the Bureau of Mines 
and with the metallurgical interests 
of the Pittsburgh district.
The appointments are for a period 
of ten months beginning August 18, 
1924, the successful applicants re
ceiving $750 for their -work. Holders 
of the fellowships will bo required 
to register as graduate students, and 
will become candidates for the de
gree of Master of Science unless 
already possessing one. School va
cations will not be observed and fel
lows are not permitted' to accept any 
employment for pay during the ten 
months period.
Applicants should send photographs 
and a copy of their collegiate rec
ord. They should also state their 
professional experiences and give the 
names and addresses of at least 
three persons familiar with the char: 
acter, training andl ability of the ap
plicants. Applications ar& due not 
later than May 1, 1924. They should 
be addressed to W. E. Mott, Director 
College of Engineering, Carnegie In 
stistute of Technology.
Be a Newspaper Correspondent
with the peacock Plan and earn a 
good income while learning; we 
show you how; begin actual work 
at once; all or spare time; experi
ence unnecessary; no canvassing; 
send for particulars.
News writers Training Bureau, 
Buffalo, N. Y.
Last Sunday evening in tlie Arts 
Theater was given the first of the 
five Historical recitals by! the stu
dents of the Department of Music. 
T/nese recitals will illustrate the 
gradual development of music from 
the Seventeenth Century to the pres
ent time.
The subject of this first recital 
was the Transitional Period, the Sev
enteenth Century, in which the 
foundations of modem music were 
laid. The composers represented 
were the pioneers in modem har
mony and form, in the development 
of instrumental resources and in the 
types of rytlim and melody familiar 
to use.
The group of organ compositions 
illustrated the development of the 
fugal type o composition from 
Scarlatti to Buxtehude, the greatest 
of the forerunners of Bach in organ 
music. These numbers were played 
by Martha Hutson, Alfred Jouston 
and John Grotli.
The vocai numbers were examples 
of the golden age of singing drawn 
from the Italian opera composers of 
tlio time. They were sung by Al
berta Irvine, Klzzle Murdock, Eva 
Spencer, Juliet Bartletti and Allan 
Norn.
This was also the period of the 
great Italian school of composers for 
stringed instruments, who were rep
resented by Corellis La Folia" for 
violin played by Armand VendittL and 
by a Marcello Sonata for cello played 
by Ella Scanlon.
Probably the chief number on the 
program was the Golden Sonata of 
Henry Purcell, the greatest com
poser and musical genius England 
ever produced. It was played by
Marie Kleyle. Edith Jenkins, Ella 
Svanlon and Katherine Hessler.
Jeanette Spatholt and Matthew N. 
Frey were the accompanists.
Lovers of music should avail themALUMNAE TEA TO BE 
HELD NEXT SATURDAY
Margaret McFall Receives 
M.M.C.C. Cash Scholarship
The $75.00 cash scholarship, which 
is given annually by the Pittsburgh 
Female College Alumni Association 
to the Junior and Senior in Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College whomakes the highest number of Q. P.s 
Tn the first semester was this year 
awarded to Margaret McFall,' a Jun
ior in the Science Department.
The scholarship is awarded at the 
beginning of the second semester of 
each year- in a Margaret Morrison 
Assembly. This year there were 
three girls who did remarkable work 
among the Juniors and Seniors, mak
ing more than 300 Q. P.s each. Mar
garet McFall received the scholar
ship; Anne Kinser and Margaret Al
len received1 honorable mention.
Chemical Engineer to 
Lecture Here Friday
Noted Chemist Will Speak in 
Room 218, Science
Albert E. Marshall of Baltimore, 
Mdi, well known as a chemical en
gineer in this country and abroad, 
will give the third in the series of 
public lectures on chemical engineer
ing problems Friday night. His sub
ject will be "Mechanical Methods of 
Handling Chemical Plant Materials, 
a phase of chemical engineering in 
which he is regarded as an expert.
Mr. Marshall received his technical 
education at Liverpool Institute, and 
the University College at Liverpool, 
England, before coming to this coun
try in 1911. Soon after his arrival 
here he opened an office as consult
ing engineer, and since then has 
'been identified "with numerous devel
opment enterprises with chemical 
manufacturers.! In the course of his 
consulting work, Mr. Marshall lias 
designed and supervised! the con
struction of a number of plants for 
sulphuric, nitric and hydrochloric 
acid manufacturer, and in the past 
six years has also been concerned 
with the design of plants for the 
production of fertilizer. Several of' 
these undertakings have been done 
for interests in South Africa, Austra
lia and Japan.
Through his membership connect 
tions in the American Chemical So
ciety, Society' of Chemical Industry, 
American Institute of Chemical En
gineers, American Institute of Min
ing and Metallurgical Engineers, and 
the Royal Society in London, Mr. 
Marshall is recognized as one of the 
countrys authorities on the use of 
chemical equipment..
The lecture will be given under 
the joint auspices of Carnegie Tech 
and the Chemical Association. It is 
scheduled for 8:30 in Room 218, of 
the . Science Building, and no cards 
of admission will be required.
GRAPHICA TO FINANCE
TRIP OF FIFTEEN MEN
(Continued From Page One.) 
ers of the country. It has been cus
tomary to have a banquet in each city 
with the members of the Typothetae, 
the national organization of employ
ing printers. By this contact and the 
visitation of the plants, the work in 
the Department of Printing here at 
Carnegie is brought to the attention 
of the leaders of the industry.
The details of the trip are being 
worked out by the men who have 
earned the right to go on the trip un
der the leadership of Ed. S'owers. 
President of the Graphica.
NEW EVENTS FOR S. C. W.
PLANNED BY COMMITTEE
("Continued From Page One.) 
modity you desire to handle, for con
cessions will be made for only one, to 
each person. There is additional op
portunity this year in the concessions, 
and those who desire information 
should get in touch with Mr. Sload as 
soon as possible.
A week from next Saturday after
noon, March 15, an alumnae tea will j 
be given by the M. M. Alumnae As
sociation in the Recreation Hall of j 
the M. M. College at three o|cloclt.
Mrs. Wm. H. Harrold will be the 
hostess and she will be aided by 
Miss Laura Green, Mrs. F. I. Gas
ton, Miss Loma Williams, Miss Irene 
Voskamp and Mrs'. Helen Boyd Mc'Cully.
Do not forget the date!
March 15, Saturday, at three p'. m.
It will be an excellent opportunity' 
for you to see your classmates and 
plan for class reunions at Campus 
Week time. The benefit bridge in 
April will also need; your co-opera
tion and support.
PLEBE ARCHITECTSl FORGET 
THEMSELVES AND INDULGE
IN FRIGHTFUL RIOT ACT
(Continued From Page One.) 
every direction, to be hauled in 
again by reluctant owners.
As suddenly as ir. had begun, the 
storm ceased, for the confidence of 
the struggling Plebes was hopeless
ly swamped, with tlio same spray 
that drenched the Sophs with fiery 
ambition.
Law and order prevailed over all 
but a few black eyes, and one or 
two minor skull concussions.
Dignified are the halls of the Arch 
tect!
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLE'S BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
The place you have been look
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
selves of the opportunity of hearing j 
these historical recitals. Next Sun
day evening the subject of the reci
tal will be The Age of Bach and! 
Handel.
WHAT ABOUT WEDDING BELLS?
