BUY YOUR 
JUNIOR 
FROM TICKET
r--------------------
HIT THOSE 
EXAMS 
REGISTER THE FIFTH
VOL. XVIII NO. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1924
GARBER DAVIS Carnegie Architects AgainWin Laurels PLANS FINISHED Seniors---Have Pictures Taken Now
WILL PLAY AT 
LANTERN FEAST
Arts Ball Music Will be by 
Famous OrchestraSupper 
to be Served After Even
ings Play
TO HAVE CHOP SUEY
Interest grows with the announce
ment that the Garbar-Davis orchestra, 
under the direction of Jan Garber, has 
been secured for the Arts Ball, which 
will be known as the Feast of the 
Lanterns this year. Both Victor and 
Columbia records have been made by 
this orchestra, and each member is 
individually an attraction. Special at
tention is called to Rudisill whose gy
rations while at the piano are remark
able, and to Goldy, who is a former 
Carnegie man. Dave Garber, a broth
er of the leader, and chairman of the 
Post-Ball dance committee has also 
engaged the orchestra for the Post
ball danpe.
Doc Taylor, who is somewhat of a 
connoiseur, has prepared a menu 
which is somewhat of a secret. The 
fact has leaked out that chop suey is 
to be an important item. The supper 
will be served after the play, and 
preparations have been made to serve 
about six hundred.
Invitations have been sent to pa
trons and patronesses, and the usual 
bulletins as to costumes, schedules 
and regulations are being prepared. 
The designs for the decorations are 
complete, and the decoration and con
struction committees will meet this 
(Continued on Page Three)
The senior architects again won 
glory for Carnegie Tech by taking one 
first medal and seven second medals 
at the recent Beaux Arts judgment in 
New York.
The problem "An interior of a cab
aret evidently was solved by the sen
iors of all the architectural schools of 
the country competing, Carnegie Tech 
took the lead.
Willard Perkins,received first medal 
and the eight second medals awarded 
by the jury, seven were given to the 
following Carnegie men: Franklin.
Pyle, McLean, Carter, Bane, Delo and 
Miss Greisses. First mentions were 
given to Lowden and Nahorst. A 
judgement without stings is very 
much to be proud of. Professors Gaplin, Hitchens and Ellington and Hornbostle also deserve considerable praise 
for their efforts.
However this is nothing unusual j 
for Carnegie architects. The under
studies, the Juniors and Sophomores 
likewise did justice to their subjects. 
Tilliston took no less that a first men
tion placed while Ham, Fordelise and 
Lloyd were awarded first mentions. 
On the analytlques Simboli, Roller 
and Morrison received first mentions 
placed.
On the Beaux Art Esquesse Win. 
Pyle was awarded a first mention 
and P. McLean a second mention.
It may be well to mention the sys
tem of grading as used by the B. A. D. 
of New York. First medal, second 
medal, first mention placed, first men
tion, second mention and sting or 
zero. A sting signifies six weeks of 
work for naught. Carnegie Tech fort
unately has not had many stings, not 
more than one or two a judgement, 
which is exceptionally good.
FOR FEATURES 
OF JR. PROM
PLEBE DRAMATS TO 
GIVE FIRST PLAY
B. Iden Paynes Bird in 
Hand is Delightful Comedy 
Well Enacted
Students of Europe 
Worthy of Our Help
Teknon Club ExplainsPurpose 
of Impending Drive For 
Student Relief
When the American college student 
finds that there is to be a drive to 
raise a Student Friendship Fund, for 
the relief of needy European stu
dents, he is prone to shrug his should
ers and think of how he is to raise 
the necessary funds to go to tihe 
Junior Prom, or buy that English 
-topcoat. This is going to be a big 
problem for the memlbers of Teknon 
Club to overcome when they com
mence the Student Friendship Fund 
drive next month, according to C. H. 
James, who is chairman of the com
mittee in charge.
The following dopo may help to 
clear away the prejudice with which 
the average student regards any at
tempt to extract money from him 
to help some foreigner.
So many European college students 
are obliged to work during the day 
that many of the universities are 
open only in the evening.
In Russia nearly eighty per cent 
and in Central Europe fifty per cent 
of the students work for a living in 
addition to parrying on their studies. 
So reports the European Student Re(Continued on Page Four.)
Prof.fDunnells to Speak 
At Freshman Assembly
Prof. Clifford Dunnells, head of the 
Department of Building Construction, 
will talk to the Freshmen at their as
sembly, with Colonel Day in Science 
Building today. This is in keeping 
with the plan which Col. Day has been 
following at his assemblies for some 
time past. He has secured the men 
who head the several departments in 
Industries and Science schools, to 
talk to the first year men with a view 
to giving them some definite knowl
edge of the courses Carnegie offers 
to students.
We believe tliat they may, in this 
way, obtain some facts concerning the 
various courses and the lines of work 
which these courses may lead to, 
which will assist them in making a 
choice of a vocation or a profession, 
upon the completion of the first year 
of work.
The Plebe dramats will be given an 
opportunity to show their wares next 
Wednesday. An adoption in blank 
verse by Masefield of Racines play 
of Esther. A prologue has been es
pecially written by Allene Gregory, 
one of the departments advanced stu
dents.
The play will be double cast 
throughout. Leads will be taken by 
Marion Beason, Jeanne Blake, Mawry 
Tuckerman, Miss Davis, Miss Shugart, Martha Townshend, Helen Snively, Dorothy Cohen, Hazel Brown, 
Helen Rousch, Caroline Marsh, Helen 
Clagett, Mary Jennings, Norma 
Hughes, Harold Minor, Robert Alderdice, Russell Spindler, Edward 
Downes, Joe Wadsworth and Joe Gessner. The play will open January 23 
and will run until January 2G, with 
Friday and Saturday matinees.
After so many weighty plays, bear
ing the names and reputations of dra
matists already canonized, so to 
speak, in world literature, and mak
ing heavy demands on the emotions 
of actors and audience, it is a pleas
ant interlude to be offered by the 
School of Drama an evenings light en
tertainment. With Ibsen and Suderman in retrospect, and Maeterlincke 
(Continued on Page Two)
1NTER-FRAT COUNCIL 
HOLDS BUSY SESSION
Many important topics under dis
cussion among the various fraternities 
on the campus were settled at a re
cent meeting of the inter-fraternity 
Council. A discussion of the various 
changes in rushing rules was held, 
and it was voted that the rules remain 
the same as those of last year.
Several new policies for the coming 
year were decided upon, among them 
being plan for holding an Interfra
ternity Council meeting in each of the 
various fraternity houses, the place 
of each meeting to be decided in or
der of the meeting roll call. An ex
change of dinner guests between fra
ternities is to be started in order to 
promote better acquaintance among 
the various houses. An Inter-frater
nity Pledge Smoker is also to be held 
once a year to further friendship 
among the future Greeks.
A system of hospitality for men on 
the campus who have came from other 
colleges as members of fraternities 
that, are not represented on the Car
negie Campus, was discussed and 
adopted. The Inter-fraternity Dance 
was brought up, but nothing definito 
has been arranged as yet, other than 
an appointment of a committee.
Rushing rules for the second semes
ter are as follows: The rushing sea
son is to open on S'unday, February 3, 
and close at 12 oclock February 17. 
The regular rushing rules as printed 
in the handbook will be in effect and 
must be obeyed. These rules concern 
any men, who have not been eligible 
for pledging heretofore. A suggestion 
that all local fraternities petitioning 
nationals should notify the Interfraternity Council instead of the admin
istration, was considered and left for 
further action.
Examination Schedules Are Out
Students Will be Too, No Doubt
According to the theory that com
ing events cast their shadows before, 
the schedules of the annual impend
ing calamities have just been made 
public. Every student has been in
vited to attend conclaves of the en
tire group of. unfortunates who are I 
taking courses in the college and a j 
good time is expected for all.
In line with the annual crop of ob-1 
jections to these meetings the Tartan | 
has interviewed, several persons of; 
J note on the campus in an effort to j 
; ascertain the** opinion of the student j 
! body on the subject. Hereinunder 
I we quote some  few of the printable ; 
I opinions:
(Senior Commercial). It aint right 
at allthis here business or getting ! 
I a guy outa bed at 7:30 to come here j 
j and sit around for three hours wttn | 
nobody to amuse him. All. the rest 
of the year we Eit and listen to funny |
stories or go to sleep if the class 
snores too loud for us to hear them 
but this business of expecting us to 
enlighten the faculty by airing our 
business acumen in a blue book is a 
$&?!()$ (see Webster for the words 
everybody knows the tune) outrage.
(Senior Dramat). My wordex
pect us to attempt to convey our artis
tic interpretations in writing! How 
beastly inconsiderate! And at that
hour in the morning! How in the
world are we to do ourselves justicp 
when our sole art is a.spontaneous 
overflow of the soul's innermost urgings? I shall speak to* my professor 
if I see him within the next semes
ter!
(Arts School Co-ed). Its, simply 
outrageous! Three hours without say 
ing a wora to a soul! I just know
I'll'pass away. And the mean men 
(Continued on Page Four.)
TUESDAY MORNING TALKS
AT CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
Harmons Orchestra to Play 
Local Music  Originality 
Will Feature Distribution 
of Favors
SUPPER AT MIDNIGHT
A series of talks on art, natural his
tory, and travel will be given at Car
negie Institute on Tuesday mornings 
in January and February, at 111 
oclock. The speakers will be Mrs. ! 
Roy A. Hunt, Secretary of the Gar
den Club of Allegheny County; Mr. 
Arthur S. Coggesliall, Paleontologist 
of the Carnegie Museum; Mr. Frank 
Weitenkampf, Curator of Prints, New 
York Public Library; and Mr. Carveth 
Wells, Fellow of the Royal Geograph
ical Society. 
Tickets of admission to these Tues
day Morning Talks are free and will 
be issued to anyone on application to 
the Department of Fine Arts, Car
negie Institute.
Sophomore Banquet 
Date February 15
Schenley Will be Scene of 
Unusual Class Feast
The Sophomore three-school com
mittee last week selected February 
15th as the date for the Sophomore 
banquet and engaged the Hotel Schen
ley for that evening. Arrangements 
have been completed with a campus 
orchestra to provide the music. Hardie Albright and some of his fellowconspiratora from Donora are prepar
ing the entertainmentthe first time 
at Carnegie that men from the class 
holding the banquet will bo the en
tertainers.
The Sophomore classes of the three 
schools at meetings called within the 
past two weeks voted to orfijnnally 
hold the banquet last Saturday.
The principal argument advanced 
in favor of an oarlv date was that 
class spirit would die out if the event 
was postponod until spring. The 
committee made a diligent search for 
a suitable place for Saturday, but was 
unable to find one. They, therefore, 
chose the next date available. There 
is no activity to interfere with the 
feast on the 15th.
The banquet is being publicly an
nounced in accordance with the rules 
(Continued on Page Four.)
DORMITORY SERVICES 
TO BE HELD REGULARLY
Great interest is being shown in the 
Sunday services being held in the 
clubroom of Scobell Hall at the Mens 
Dormitories.
These meetings are under the direc
tion of Mr. Davis of the Y. M. C. A. 
who is doing his utmost to make these 
gatherings a success. The first of 
these was held before Christmas vaca
tion, and those present were in favor 
of a continuance ofi the services.
It is true that it is hard to secure 
the interest of every dormitory resi
dent at first, but the initial atteifdance gives promise of bigger things. 
Only the best speakers are being se
cured, and an interesting, as well as 
instructive, hour is promised all who 
attend.
On Sunday, January 13, Mr. Hart
man, assistant to Dr. Baker, gave a 
very interesting talk. Immediately 
after the services, a luncheon was 
served. To make things more inter
esting, Miss Helm, head of the Mens 
Dorms, invited everyone to her apart
ment in Boss Hall for the "eats.
Bok Peace Plan to be 
Voted on by Students
Sometime in the near future, the 
Carnegie Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. 
will be in charge of the voting on the 
j Bok Peace Plan, which will be conj ducted on the campus. Last year Mr. 
Bok offered a prize of $100,000 for the 
best plan for international peace. 
Thousands of plans were submitted, 
| but the choice of the judges finally 
j dwindled down |.o one. The name of 
the author of the chosen plan has not 
yet been disclosed but will be just as 
soon as the popular vote of the Ameri; can people has been taken, 
j The Y. M. C. A. will see that ballot| boxes are placed in Science and Ini dustries, while the Y. W. C. A. will 
| take care of the College of Fine Arts 
' and Margaret Morrison.
| A complete ouliine of this plan will 
appear in the next issue of the Car
negie Tartan.
With the sale of final tickets al
ready under way the Junior Prom 
committee is rapidly completing plans 
for the 1924 Carnegie Pjrom. The 
Schenley is to be decorated in a man
ner befitting the event and according 
to reports will present a picturesque 
background for the dancing couples.
Dave Harmon's Orchestra has again 
won fame, this time at Washington 
and Jefferson College where they re
cently played at one of tho big school 
affairs. Every one who has heard 
them is enthusiastic in his praises of 
the music rendered and say that the 
orchestra compares very favorably 
With tho best ever heard in this dis
trict. Mr. Harmon has promised to 
favor the Prom with some local music 
which will give a distinctly Carnegie 
atmosphere to the event.
Not only has the committee selected 
the best possible music for this affair, 
but they have ordered favors which 
are novel and pleasing. The favors 
will be distributed in a manner which 
cannot help arouse comment as to its 
originality. Those who attend tho 
Prom are assured several surprises, 
not the least of which will bo this 
novel departure from the usual man
ner of distributing favors.
The management of tho Schenley 
Hotel has prepared a vory dolectablo 
menu -for the supper which will be 
served at midnight. The dining room 
will be decorated t enhance tho re
past which will sorve to stavo off tho 
pangs of hunger until the end of tho 
dance.
Following Carnegie traditions, the 
girls will not expoct Iheir ardour 
swains to send corsages, Tho commit
tee has so arranged decorations that 
this lack of flowers will In no way 
(Continued on Page, Two.)
Womens Prom Held 
Last Friday Evening
Supper Served at Mid-night 
in Hotel Dinning-room
The Women's Junior Prom of Car
negie last Friday ovonlng, January 18, 
was ovorything and oven moro than 
the commltleo had hoped for. The 
Prom was ideally supported by Mi. 
Junior Class, who with tho members 
of the Senior Class as their guests, 
made about one hundred and thirty 
couples in attendance.
The Rainbow Serenaders niado true 
their promise to provide novel entortalnmont. Theirs was, by far, tho host 
music hoard at school affairs for some 
time. Tho ballroom and foyers wore 
decorated with palms.
The hours wcro from !> to 2 o'clock 
with the faculty, trustees and mombors of the committee receiving; Miss 
Bernice Bentz, the sociul chairman of 
the Junior Class headed the receiving 
line.
At 12:45 oclock, the grand march 
formed; Miss Mary Speers, the class 
president leading. After the grand 
march, a full-course midnight supper 
was served in the dining room of the 
Hotel Schenley. The large table for 
the committee members had a beau
tiful counterpiece of roses while bud 
roses were used on the smaller tables.
Everyone was delighted with their 
favor; the men received key-containers of black leather with the silver 
Carnegie Seal on the case; the women 
received cuiff-links pins of hammer
ed silver with the Carnegie Seal.
GLEE CLUB SCORES 
SUCCESS AT P. C. W.
A combined concert of the Carnegie 
Musical Clubs and the Pennsylvania 
College for Womens Glee Club was 
held in the P. C. W. auditorium last 
Wednesday evening. Alternating se
lections were rendered by each club, 
resulting in a very entertaining pro
gram. Immediately following the con
cert the combined clubs spent several 
hours at an informal dance which was 
held in the ballroom of the college.
One of the best numbers on the 
program was a violin solo by Miss 
Grace McBride, a member of the P. 
C. W. club. She played three selec
tions and was forced to render sev
eral encores before retiring. Several 
novel features on the Carnegie pro
gram was a Saw Solo by Bernard 
Brondy, and a Balaika solo by W. N. 
Aleshin.
The Balaika Is a very rare instru
ment, and Aleshin 1 believed to pos
sess the only one in Ibis part of tho 
country.
Several very fino selections were 
also played by the Carnegie Mandolin 
Club. The concert was attended by a 
very large crowd, who seemed to en
joy the music very much, judging 
from the numerous encores which 
were required.
Several concerts have been ar
ranged for the club for the month of 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Once again tho Thlstlo Board makes 
an eiirnost plea to those Seniors who 
have thus far failed to have tlipir 
pictures taueii, in tho hope that those 
Lew will show a little Interset in one 
of the traditions of Carnegie.
There is a space reservod iu the 
Senior section of tho year book for 
every Senior in school, and as mat
ters now stand thore is going to be a 
number of blank spaces in this sec
tion. The ride to tho photographer in 
Wilklnsburg requires about 15 min
utes each way, so just beforo going 
out on a dato, all dressed up, why not 
run out to Mr. Clay's Btudio and tako 
that picture?
The engraving company has offerod 
a discount if tho entiro order is in by 
a certain dato and the board desires 
to take advantage of this qffer. Those 
few Seniors who fall in this category 
should tako that picture now.
Final results of the last salo are not
yet fully known, but it is felt, that tho 
students have not eomo across as well 
as they should have. It iB not likoly 
that any extra copies will bo priutod, 
and those who have not orderod their 
copies will have to do without.
The Thistle Board reports that tho 
work on all parts of tho book is be
ing rushed. The Sonior section Is 
still unfinished and tho Seniors' can 
co-operate In tho manner indicated in 
tho boslnlng of this article.
Tho athletis section and the tradi
tion soctlon have been comploted and 
brought up to date.
As announced in last weeks issuo 
of The Carnogio Tartan, thoso or
ganizations which have not paid their 
bill for their plcturo will not get the 
plcturo In tho year book as this rule 
will be strictly adliearod to, it Is up 
to these organizations to co-operato 
and pay their bills promptly.
Thore will bo a Thlstlo staff moot
ing Wodnesday at 12:30,
DELINQUENT JUNIORS
NAMES TO BE POSTED
At the Engineering Junior class 
meeting held on January eighth, it 
was decided to post a list of namos 
of the Juniors who have not paid 
their Junior Prom assessment. Tho 
class previously voted to assess each 
man a dollar and fifty cents.
The Prom committee has boon 
handicapped for lack of funds, and 
as the Engineering students aro somewhat delinquent in tlioir paymont of 
the assessment, tho idea of publish
ing namos has been adopted. Any 
Junior who does not wish to see Ills 
name posted on the campus bulletins 
as a delinquent should soe his soc
tlon leader some timo during the prosont wook.
ASSEMBLY CHANGE 
BEING CONSIDERED
Dissatisfaction Over Present 
System Expressed by 
Many Students
Chemicals to Hear Five 
Lectures on Profession
Series to be Given During 
February and March
During February and March a se
ries of five public loeturos on chem
ical engineering probloms will bo 
given at Carneglo undor tho Joint 
uuspices of tho school and tho CliomIcal Equipmont Association. Tho se
ries, according to the announcomont, 
will bo for tho benefit, of tho oxoeutlvos and scientists of tho Pittsburgh 
district as well as students. Spoclal 
Invitations to a largo number of resi
dents of this soctlon havo boon issuod by Prosldont Baker.
Tho serlos will cover important 
probloms In tho uso of chomlcal equip
ment In chemical and metallurgical 
industries, and discussion of those 
phases of onginoorlng doallng with 
evaporation, mechanical handling of 
materials, crushing, grinding, sifting 
and mixing.
Tho schedule of Jefaturas Is as fol
lows:
Friday, February 8th; Dr. II. C. 
Pnrmaloo, editor of Chemical ami Met
allurgical Engineering; The Relation 
of Choinical Equipmont to tho Pitt* 
burgh Industries.
Thursday, February 14th; Profossor 
luonunuou on Pago Two.)
"No definito action lias as yet boon 
takon, but when the proposition of 
using the now gym for student as
semblies or pep-ralllos la brought up 
It will probably bo acted upon favor
ably. This statement given out by 
Dr. Baker through Dr. Esquorro will 
bo greotod joyously by many Car
negie students. Tho quostlon was 
brought to tho nttontlon of tho ad
ministration last wook by tho Tartan 
following numorous questions as to 
what the Tartan policy on student as
semblies for tho noxt somostor would 
bo.
Probably at no other llmo In tho 
history of Carneglo has so much un
favorable commont been hofird eoncorning tho conduct of Gonoral AsI sombly as was hoard following last 
wooks assembly. Tho general dls| satisfaction has brought, to a head a 
j situation thiil has boon gradually 
growing worse oach wook. Starting 
| tho school year with an attendance 
of nearly 1500, tho Intorost has boon 
gradually waning until last wook by 
actual coiint 854 students, faculty, and 
I visitors woro prosont. This shows an 
attomlanco of only 35 por cent of tho 
student, body with Indications point(Continued on rago Two.)
ARRANGEMENTS ALMOST 
COMPLETED FOR GAMBOL
Arrangements are being completed 
for the Gambol of the Guilds wlilcli 
will bo held In tho Union on February 
21. Joe Davis, chairman of the com
mittee has announced that tills years 
dance will be bettor than the ono held 
last year, and that one was one of tho 
best dances of the social season.
Tho Gambol of tho Guilds is the 
annual dance of the College of Indus
tries, but is open to all Carnegie stu
dents.
The first Gambol of the Guilds was 
held five years ago and was called 
the Lrollc of the Laborers. The girls 
wore white aprons and the men wore 
white overalls. Two years ago, how
ever, it was decided to open the dance 
to all Carnegie and to follow the reg
ular mode of dress. The dance last 
year was considered to have been one 
of the best dances ever held on the 
campus, but according to the commit
tee, the dance this year will be better 
still. Dancing will be from 9 till 11.
The price of admission this year 
will be $2.50 per couple. Preliminary 
tickets will be on sale some time this 
week.
ARTfSTUDENTS ACTIVE 
IN COMMERCIAL WORK
Big Leap Year Issue 
On Campus Wednesday
Tho exchange Issue of the Puppet 
will be on sale Wednesday or Thurs
day of this week. This number is to 
be the Leap Year number, and Its 
going to be something bettor than 
usual, for is this not Leap Year?
Thore Is moro or loss secrecy about 
this Issue. No one has been allowed 
to seo It outside of thoso immediately 
concerned, and there is little known 
about tho contents or cover. Thin 
seems to foretell something especially 
good. Bring your coupons.
Tho next number will ,bo tho Ex
change number. This Is a new one 
for the Puppet, for It contains noth
ing except the best extracts from all 
tho college comics all over the coun
try. Why buy College Muinor for 
$0.35, when you can get Puppet on 
the Campus for $0.25, with the selec
tions made by the brilliant staff of 
that publication? Watch for It.
An Interview with tho men of tho 
Painting and Illustration and Applied 
Art Departments of tho College of 
FI no Arts shows that many of them 
are getting actual experience In the 
commercial world by doing practical 
work for private firms and organ i/a* 
lions.
Tho type of work dono by tho stu
dents covers Illustration, design and 
poster work. Walter Duller Is cred
ited with designing tho program for 
tho "Snapshots of 11)24 which showed 
at the Schonley Theatqr hist weolc.
Doitor and 10. D. Couso, Jr., collab
orated to make sovoral cartoons and 
an oil painting for tho Studobakor 
Motor Company of this city to bo usod 
In connection with a sales campaign. 
Couse is now making some cartoons 
for the Concordia Club. Tho Club Is 
celebrating its llfLleth annlvorsary and 
tho cartoons, depicting events of the 
club during the last fifty years, are to 
be used for lantern slides.
J. C. Carr has been very successful 
In tho poster field. Besides making 
window displays for several downtown 
stores he has made posters for Radio 
Corporation of America, the Pitts
burgh Athletic Association, and the 
Monongahela National Bank.
B. J. Mahan produces all types of 
commercial work. He has made pos
ters for an insurance company in Bos
ton, designed blotters and has made 
designs for a calendar concern in 
Chicago. He has also Illustrated ad
vertisements for bakeries, launderles, 
and floral companies.
Teasdale Barney is making pen anfl 
ink drawings for newspajib, adver
tisements; and retouches commercial 
photographs. Kevin OCallahan and 
V. S. Mollenauer are doing poster 
work.
CARNEGIE WILL 
HAVE UNIQUE 
MODEL HOUS'E
Each Department in the In
dustries School Will Work 
on a Bungalow to be 
Built by Students
MASONS INCREASE
Tho Carnogio Tocli studonts aro 
building a complotio four-room bung
alow in tho laboratory used by tho 
building construction courses. The 
cost of tho house, which will bo 8t> 
by 28 feet, iB estimated at ?1,600, 
half of whitedi sum comprises tho la
bor. Tho night studonts aro doing 
the greater part of the work.
Tho carpentry studonts are doing 
tho woodwork, tho masonry studonts 
aro attending to the brickwork, the 
plumbers are seeing to the pipes and 
boating, and tilio electrical students 
aro doing tho wiring. The house will 
bo plastered and entlroly finished in
side, and except for tho coiling of tho 
laboratory, which will take tho placo 
of Uio roof, and the fioor, which 
abridges tho (basement, tho house will 
bo entirely complete and modern.
The enrollment of masonry stiiulonts 
has Incroasod amazingly during tho 
last year. This Increaso is probably 
duo in part to tho high wagos of la
boring men and tho comparatively 
low onos of\ clerks, bookkeepers and 
stenographers.
About forty per cent of tho stu(Contlnuod on Pago Two.)
Girls Dormitories 
Ready to be Named
Students Asked to Volunteer 
Ideas on the Subject
Wo como'again to tho quic-stlon of 
naming tho girls dormitories. Tho 
foature story of last wook may havo 
soomud a Joke, but. Its idea was sound.
Tho dormitories would be much bet
ter off with names rather than num
bers. Names are a groat deal more 
Individual, and moan quite a bit more 
than tho numbers by which they are 
now known.
II, may seem strango at. first to say 
you live In the ''Hull" or that, but In 
a lew weeks, It will be as common as 
to say "Forbes Mall or "Midion Mall."
IDnough of the girls have voiced 
their opinions In this matter to make 
It safe to say that, most of the girls 
desire the donnlUtrlos to he named. 
S'ullahle namos, however, uro hard to 
locate. They must bo expressive and 
suitable. Any suggestion on the part 
of the girls or men of Carneglo will 
bo approdatici.
There Is no ono opposed to naming 
tho dormitorios, so the best course In 
to say that If no ono Is against It, 
then everyone Is for It.
'lIlo number system for tho mens 
dormitories was supplanted by liamos. 
In time, the girls dormitorios will 
follow milt. Thon why not make the 
change now, why not-havo the pros
ont clnssos of 24, 25, "20 and 27 havo 
their share In the making of college 
history.
Second Shilling Conies 
Out Registration Week
The Shilling Is to make its socond 
appearance on the Campus during Reg
istration week for tho second semes
ter.
The first Shilling of tho year came 
out Immediately after Thanksgiving, 
and enjoyed a very good reception.
The next magazine will be an im
provement upon the first one, because 
the girls will have had an opportunity 
to gather in a little more material. 
Tho members of the s^aff will gladly 
accept any contributions from any stu
dents interested in having their work 
published.
As the students register, they will 
have an opportunity to buy the new 
Shilling, and the staff is looking for
ward to the largest sales of the books 
career.
Nine Hundred Rip Van Winkles
Fail to See the Speakers Wrinkles
Snakoy-noodl.es is a queer mysterious 
word, meaning much or little accord
ing to whether you consider it as a 
whole, or tako each part separately, 
Snakey suggests a "vamp," noodles 
suggests a meal, but is there any conI noctlon between a vamp and a meal? 
i From Snakoy-noodlos to Gonoral AsI sombly Is Just a stop. The two havo 
I much In common. Snakoy'noodlos
Isn't tho only compound word that
doesn't moan anything,
I For Instance, threo Tartan reporters 
I were sent to "over" Qenorul AssomI bly, and all they brought back was a 
! hash of impressions. Three messes of 
hash. Dont you think that whero 
| there Is so much hash there must be 
some cut-ups?
I To let you judge for yourself here 
is a reporter^ report on the assembly,
takon down just as a.new angle struck 
him:
"A small bono, a vory scant hank of 
hair, a wonderful pair of lungs equals 
our assom bly speaker.
"Was II. the diplomats or tho sand
wiches that couldnt leave tho dishes? 
If tho .sandwiches, what did the diplo
mats do, and If tho diplomats, what 
d/d the sandwiches do?
Dr. Baker has nearly slipped of his 
chair twice. Is tho third .time always 
tho charm?
If lie did slip ofIt would assembly 
bo over?
"Say when!
BUYOR we have lots1 of- pineapples, 
perslmons and raspberries.
"Hurrah! The war is over! Thank 
God for peace!
(Continued on Page Three)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 22. 1924
ID
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie IriBtltuto of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Postoillce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.___________
H. IP. SIMPSON ................................................................................. Edltor-ln-Chlei
Telephone Schenley 0143
J. C. MAJOR........................................................................Acting Business Manager
Telephone lilland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD .................................................................. Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley 0181)
FRED C. SMITH..........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS...........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT ................................................................ Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9220
MARK S. DOWNES ...................................................................... Associate Editor
H. H. WILSON ................................................................................ Associate Editor
W. WINNING ......................................................................................... Nows Editor
Telephone Schonloy 1)070
F. D. ROSSINI    ............................................................................-   Nev/s Editor
Telephone Schonloy 0070
A. S. ANDREWS ..................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Schonloy 0211
H. O. FRAZIER .............................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephone Schonloy 01'13
A. E. KROGH............................................................................................Alumni Editor
R. W. SLEATH .................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. J JEFFREY ............................................................................ Exchange Editor
10. P. CO USE, ............................................................................................... Art Editor
DON GARDNER ................................................................................ Special Writer
T. J. UJOMPSEY ..................................................................... Circulation Manager
B. BROUDY .............................................................. Assistant Business Manager
W. M. (JIBSON.............................................................................Advertising Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Entollo Garibaldi, Elizaboth Jane Gordon, Wilma Stlnor, Carol Folght, 
Margaret MoFall, Rosemary M. Cambridge, Nora Willetts, Mary O'Brien, 
Aimee Pharo, N. C. Weser, V. 13. Smith, L. II. Harris, E. G. Johnson, J. M. 
Goss, F. L. Wagnor, F. M. McClelland, J. M. Early, D. M. Davidson, M. W. 
Gay, F. L. Ford, E. E. Kerns, C. A. Lundqulst, E. L. Kennedy, E. William
EJkdahl, Lillian Cunningham.____________________ ________________________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Holen Corrao, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Rassbacli.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moslcovitz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. Sandroclc, A. Grodner, A. Barforow, A. I3orroton, Lee C. Osborne.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the
Managing Editor for tho make up.__________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, If Blgnod. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All nows Items must be in the student 
postoillco before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OllicoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20.____________________________________________________________________________________
INTER-FRATERNITY SCHOLARSHIP
Primarily a man attend,s college to learn ; secondarily to gain 
that broader view-point 011 life, which is a result oi! a carei!ul division 
of time between his books and activities. A man who has been mere
ly a student has missed one oi: the two fundamentals in college train
ing for future life, in that he has no record in undergraduate activi
ties which show that he has received training in handling men, in 
management, in salesmanship, in co-operation, and hence, in making 
friends.
But this article is not an appraisal of activities. Rather on the 
contrary, it is a treatment 011 studying, and its attendant result: 
scholarship. More, it is a treatment on scholarship, and fraternity 
co-operation towards bettering it.
Not many months ago, the Inter-Fraternity world was-startled 
by a book which had for its main purpose, the condemnation of fra
ternities. Many of the articles were absolutely unjust, and only 
tended to shower contempt upon the writer, but, even so, there were 
many which had just cause for their utterance.
On the whole, it is thought by the many thousands of fraternity 
men and Avomcn throughout the world that the article was invoked 
by a mind embittered through the failure ol! certain associates to live 
up to tho high ideals set by tho fraternity as a whole. It is felt 
that ho judged a great and dignified group of men and women by 
only a small part oil the whole.
One of his chief points ol! attack is that the fraternities tend to 
lower scholarship through teaching the code ol! good-fellowship, 
under-graduate activities, and elevation of ones own fraternity, in 
lieu of scholarship,
.Realizing this to be a vulnerable point ol' attack, all Inter-Frater
nity Councils at tho various colleges, backed by the National (Jraduate and Uudor-Graduato Inter-Fraternity Council, are putting forth 
scholarship campaigns with its foremost function, not to elevate any 
particular fraternity, but to raise tho scholarship of the group as a 
wholequite a laudable campaign I
Hero at Carnegie, arrangements havo been made with the office 
ol! tho Dean of Men for fraternity representatives to got scholarship 
grades ol' their members soon after the closing ol marks. At pres
ent a discrepancy exists in the methods ol! grading, as the average 
student in each ol' the three men's schools do not receive the same 
number or an equal number of quality points. A multiplying factor 
;in to be determined and thus it will matter not the school, for tho 
importance of a point will bo the same for all three schools.
A scholarship cup is awarded by the Faculty Club ol the fra
ternity holding the highest number of points of quality. '.Phis stimu
lates the interest of tho groups.
At present in order to bo eligible for initiation into a fraternity 
the pledge must pass a scholarship requirement equal to that deter
mining eligibility for athletic and non-othlotic activities on the cam
pus. This will be carried further in the future und applied to the 
various fraternities, each one of which will have to attain a certain 
standard before they can gain and hold membership in the InterFraternity Council.
This is one of the many points of INTER-FRATERNITY CO
OPERATION 1
STUDENT CALENDAR^
MONDAY, JANUARY 28
Bird in'the Hand  ........... .......................8:15 P. M., Arts Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY I
Mens Junior Prom......................................9:00 P. M., Hotel Schenlev
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5
Bonfire..........................................................7:00 P. M., Carnegie Bow*
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Pitt............................................Gymnasium
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY S
Parmalee Iifccture.....'.............................................S :15 P. M., 218 Scienec
Arts Ball.......................................-....................9 :00 P. M., Arts Schoo1
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15 
Sophomore Banquet....................................7 :00 P. M.? lipid Schenlo'
ASSEMBLY CHANGE
BEING CONSIDERED
(Continued From Pngo 1) 
ing toward a still further drop if 
present conditions aro continued.
Three reasons havo boon advanced 
for tho poor showing. First, tho loca
tion of tho Music Hall, which is off 
tho campus and a live minute walk 
from tho school, tends to cut doeply 
into the attondanoo of tho student, 
body as a whole. Secondly, not 
enough timo is allowed for tho assem
blies so that thoso studonts' who at
tend thom usually Had It necessury 
either to miss tholr lunch or to report, 
late to their afternoon classes, Third, 
too much of tho,timo i given over to 
tho speakers so that tho assemblies 
which are advortlsod as Student As
semblies aro in reality only lecture 
courses with little or no chance for a 
development of school spirit. The 
blame cannot bo placed upon the Stu
dent Council, nor tho Faculty, nor 
Administration, but is the fault of tho 
present system as a whole. However, 
unless conditions are rectified the stu
dent body will undoubtedly have 
reason to find fault over the existing 
situation. With the building of the 
new gym, the possibility of a remedy 
is not far distant.
v Students in general have pointed
out tho folloAving remedies for tlu 
throe dofects shown above. First, as 
to the distance to the Music Hall: 
The holding of Assemblies in the new 
gym can definitely wipe out all excuse 
for non-attendance on this excuse 
Somo optimists claim that with prop
er advertising of the event, and an 
assurnnoo of a good program, a gath
ering of at. least 2000 would not bo 
unusual. At tho present time there 
aro no auditorium soots available for 
use In the assembly and It. would, of 
course, roqulro somo time to secure 
a permanent seating arrangement 
with a permanent policy. Tho tem
porary solution of Hit' matter, and 
tho solution that has mot with some 
approval Is the Question that, has boon 
brought before tho administration 
that of using the temporary soatlng 
arrangement, used for the basket ball 
gamos until hotter can bo provided. 
There will undoubtedly be somo draw
backs oucountorod but tho details 
could bo carefully worked out with 
some little trouble.
In addition to eliminating the fault, 
as to location, the use of tho new gym 
would in part wipe out the second 
fault of lack of time for assemblies. 
At least 15 to 20 minutes in time 
would bo saved by holding the assem
blies on the campus, and in addition, 
because of the better facilities for soBonfire and Rally to Open New Gym
- -
if W.
JNYYO not a picture of this kind bring back to you the old football spirit? 
Remember tho old time snake dance we used to have between halves of the 
football games? This snap was taken at one of the game several years ago 
and how the pep, the organization, and tho spirit that existed at that time. 
NYYO that spirit still exist? Can we get a turnout to a basket ball rally that 
will Insure Its success? Are Carnegie students really back of their athletic 
team, their Student Council, and the school? Do they appreciate the fact 
that with the coming of the new gym there comes a now era in Carnegie 
athletics? Several dozen Questions of thiB character will be answered with 
little difficulty after the mammoth*
DIPLOMAT SPEAKS Distribute Over $2600 Lecture on Iron and 
BEFORE ASSEMBLY ln K-oxc- PavChecks Steel By Stansfield
Laughlin Pays Tribute to W. 
H. PageDr. Baker Makes 
Athletic Awards
bonfire and rally which Is to be held 
February fifth, the night of tho open 
Ing of tho new gym and the game 
with Pitt
February fifth will remain for years 
to come as a lasting memorial In Car
negie history. That night marks the 
opening of the long-heralded and 
much desired new gym. That night 
marks tho resumption of basket ball 
relations with Pitt after a lapse of 
several years. That night marks the 
night when Pitt students will be on 
hand determined to cheer their team 
on to victory as they have never 
cheered before to a'venge the defeat 
on tho football field. Carnegie must 
be out, just as strong, just as deter
mined, or more so, and must have 
that old Carnegie Tech spirit that 
never dies. Many alumni will be 
back to help us make this a banner 
night,
As for the rally itself, all that is 
needed to make it a rip-roaring suc
cess Is the biggest turnout we have 
over had for such an event. The 
Plebes are expected to build a bon
fire twice as high as the last one, 
and this means will be used to open 
the rally and provide warmth and il
lumination for the rest of the pro
gram. All plans are being made for 
holding the rally in the bowl but in 
case the weather Is too disagreeable 
the get-together can easily be shifted 
Into tho new gym.
It Is understood that the Cites will 
assume charge of the bonfire this 
wook and enter fully Into tho spirit of 
the occasion by providing some spe
cial features. Tho Kilts will be there 
in full regalia. It is going to be one 
big night and everyone coming Is 
surod that there 1 little chance of 
falling asleep during the exercises.
RECREATIONAL TEAS 
FEATURE EXAM WEEK
Tho Y. W. C. A. mooting in the star 
garet Morrison Recreation Hall tomor 
row at .12:20 will bo in the form of a 
song service. The last song service 
was so popular that tho girls havo re 
quested anothor ono.
During tho afternoons of examina
tion wook, tho Y. W. ('.A. will again 
glvo a orlo of teas In tho Margaret 
IYFMTCYFF Recreation Hall CY that the 
weary Maggie Murphs and Arts girls 
may relax from tho train under which 
they labor during oxumimitions.
Tea and cake will bo sorvod to any 
girl who como for pure fun, but If 
a girl come to gloom over examinaI,ions, ho will bo taxed a penny every 
time lie even ment ion them.
curing tholr ldnch on tho campuM, t.u 
donts would not run tho risk of los 
TFFK out on their "oat" In order to gel 
to clauses on time, in event the gym 
Is not, used tho only solution neoim 
to be that of allowing an extra hour 
-.ocosH whenever the assemblies were 
hold over an hour In length.
The third fault with assemblies car 
only bo corrected through proper co
operation between tiie Administration 
nid tho Student Council on the se 
lection of programs. Wlion a speake 
Is secured from some point out o 
town he can scarcely be expected tc 
travel seyqral hundred miles to give 
i, 20 minute talk,, but, by the same 
"eason ing, it is not right that an hour 
and fifteen minutes of an hour to an 
.our and a half assembly should be 
taken up by a speaker. Speakers 
at the Music Hall under the present 
system should be limited to 20 rhin
ites and in no case should exceed 30 
minutes unless an extra hour be al
lowed for lunch. Use of the new gym 
.vould allow a bit more time, and also 
wrings, In a feature of the temporary 
irrangement which would innocently 
irove very useful in causing a long 
; ind(?d speaker- to wind up a talk. 
What speaker could talk against all 
lie racket that would be going on at 
he end of a half hours careful listen
ing to a speaker while a thousand or 
more students are sitting on hard 
board seat bleachers which are bound 
to rattle, crack, and groan in response 
to n students careful squirming to 
eradicate and ease up stiff joints?
A suggestion that has been made 
and really deserves earnest consider
ation 1 that, of holding tho next as
sembly in tho now gym as n real stu
dent. assembly In tho form of a popmeeting. The main Idea would bo to 
Instill spirit, A good outside poptalker or humorous lecturer to give a 
short snappy talk, musical numbers, 
vaudeville stunts, songs and yells 
could bo listed on tho program. Tho 
proposition looks good; It should ho 
successful.
Further discussion of tho assembly 
question is greatly desired. The Tar
tan office is open every noon and 
would appreciate the interest' of any 
student who would drop in to talkover his idens.
COMMENTS
WANTEDINSURRECTIONISTS
As a nation America iB becoming 
bored with the advice which our con
tinental visitors deem it their solemn 
duty to offer us. Clemenceau gave it, 
Lloyd George gave it; Conrad, a man 
who thinks a great deal, and blathers 
but seldom, proved Ills originality by 
neglecting the point.
Therefore, when Dr. Gray, of Glas
gow, proceeded to the customary criticisnl of American college students, 
we brought forth the sneer which we 
reserve for patronizing British travel
ers, and settled down to read what 
the good doctor had to say.
The sneer was soon forgotten. Doc
tor Gray, after first proving his right 
to his doctors degree by patting us 
neatly between the shoulder blades, 
and assuring us that we were a great 
deal of the all right, went further 
and demonstarted his knowledge of 
anatomy by planting a poke squarely 
between our eyes. If some of our 
other visitors would also study for 
and get a doctor's degree, their pokes 
might be as accurate.
Part of what ho said was: "Your 
students are strangely docile in mind 
. . . Hitherto 1 had believed that 
youth Is universally the period of crit
icism. I do not know whether this 
state of matters is the cause of the 
product of the paternalism which 
characterizes your institutions. In 
any case I deplore it. A student 
should not be s.mply a person who be
lieves what he is told. And a profes
sor should not be simply a source of 
Information, but one who provokes 
and challenges thought.
One might almost think that Doctor 
Gray wore not a visitor, his words are 
so true. Ho is rightthe American 
student Is a docile lamb. He would 
rather be a servant and stand p.at, 
than be a rebel and a martyr. He 
would rather be approved by the mob 
than prove his personality by resist
ing tho mob. The son of insurrec
tionists, he worships conservatism. Ho 
gets his opinions from newspapers, 
his list of studies from the faculty 
and oven in the popularity of tho eat
ing houses is the Implication that he 
would have somcono choosy his food 
and set It before him, rather than 
strain bln power of decision by select
ing it himself. Any person with a 
grain of will-power can lead him. Ho 
straddle tho fence till someone 
shoves him off onto one side, it, must 
mroly be only through the grace of 
God t,lml. ho prefer heaven to hell.
When wo find a student lion in our 
midst, we bun him. 11' the lion roars, 
.vo yawn, but if ho Snarls, we run. By 
our disinterested docility we force a 
potential creator to become a creat
ure. "Wo worry about things?" wo 
Irawl as wo light two-cent cigaretts.
Vet, Isnt :t more glorious, more to.ally satisfying to live like a lion and 
die in a light, than to live like a lamb 
and end ijp In tho slaughter-house?
Notre Dauie Scholastic.
Last Tuesday a large audience 
composed of both students and visi
tors, was present to hear the ad
dress delivered by Irwin Laughlin, 
a native of Pittsburgh, and former 
first secretary at the London Ameri 
can Embassy. Mr. Laughlin proposed 
to give a picture of diplomatic life 
during the period of the Great War. 
He explained the origin and develop
ment of the practice of sending resi
dent diplomatic missions to a for
eign court, which plan dates from the 
fifteenth century, and has survived 
because of its importance in acting 
as a lubricant, in helping to estab
lish easy relations 'between the coun
tries, in promoting conciliatory ef
forts, and by foresight1, judgment, 
and) tact, aiding in the prevention of 
friction.
Mr. Laughlin offered an explanation 
as to the distinct difference between 
the Consul Service and the Diploma.lic Service.
"The protection of citizens, he de
clared, "is in the hands of the Con
sul, a local) authority. The Diplo
matic Office has direct access to the 
central government of foreign states 
and is an aid to American commer
cial interests. It is the official chan 
nel of communication, through which 
its own government is kept informed 
as to finances, commerce, arts, agri
culture, mining and all other internal 
conditions, as well as policies, mo
tives and opinions of the foreign 
country.
Mr. Laughlin paid a high tribute 
to the "late Ambassador Walter 
Hines Page, who, he asserts, "'will 
be given a high place in history for 
his judgment and vision in recogniz
ing the truJtaii supplemented by his 
course in telling it.
In describing the panic that en
sued upon the declaration of war in 
1914, "the stupifying situation that 
spread itself over Europe, the con
fused tidal wave of bewildered, fran
tic citizens hastened from Europe to 
London, during this period of anx
iety, Mr. Laughlin observes, the 
safety1 of the state, and not the in
dividual was considered.
In referring to the most important 
matters of this period, Mr. Laughlin 
cited the -blockade and the Lusitania 
situation.
"Walter Page, the diplomat as
sorted, "whose persistence grew with 
the obstacles, finally succeeded in 
persuading a reluctant government 
that the moment for decisive action 
was at hand. When at last the pil
ing of the Pelion of :Lnsolence lupon 
the Ossa oL' stupidity brought the 
United States to such a pitch of ex
asperation that something had to be 
done, the hammering of his philippics 
had undoubtedly so bent the official 
mind) that it broke the resistance it 
might otherwise have offered. The 
entuv: of the United States into the 
wur*ueterm.ined its results and has
tened itis vend!,''.
At the conclusion of Mr. Laughlins 
speech, Dr. Baker presented'cups anii 
certificates for athletic achievement;
Seniors and Juniors of the R. O. T. 
C last week received pay checks for 
the quarter ending December 31st. 
It is stated that there were no deser
tions from the ranks when the ad
vance upon the United States Treas
ury was ordered.
The total pay amounted to $2,660.70. 
Thirty-live Seniors and fifty-three 
I Juniors benefftted by the disburse
ment. Roommates ana fraternity 
brothers report that the novice offi
cers have in the last day or two re
sumed the enforced habit of staying 
| in at night but that they seem very 
tired.
I Thistle and Junior Prom salesmen 
; made a concerted post-payday swoop 
j upon the nervous soldiers and re| duced the exchequer considerably. 
The military men say that no one 
without a bayonet can protect him
self from those persistent banana oil 
magnates.
Touches on Many Modern 
and Future Methods
PRINTING EXHIBIT IS 
NOW ON AT INSTITUTE
NEWMAN CLUB PLANS
DANCE FRIDAY FEB. 8
The Newman Club at its last reg
ular meeting decided to hold its sec
ond dance at the K. of C. Hall on Fri
day, February S. The committee is 
now working on plans for the occas
ion and will soon be able to announce 
the orchestra and other arrangements.
A meeting is scheduled for tomor
row night in Cathedral High School. 
Basketball and dancing will follow the 
clearing up of business details.
Last Wednesday evening the Blues 
went into first place in the basketball 
race through a victory over the Whites 
which it took two. extra periods to 
gain.
LOST
LostTortoise-rimmed glasses. Re
ward. Please return to Hut library.
Tho historical exhibition of fine 
printing at the Carnegie Institute is 
vory interesting, the display including 
specimens of printing art from the 
Fifteenth Century to the present day.
One of the mo3t noteworthy objects 
Is a page from the Bible printed,by 
Guttenburg, which was tiie first book 
to bo printed with movable type. 
There is also other work of this pe
riod from the French, German, and 
Italian presses.
Some later work, much of it in bril
liant colors, and beautifully designed 
is.part of the display. In addition to 
the genuine plates, there are some re
productions which are excellent.
Recently printed books are also in
cluded, such as privately-printed edi
tions of Shakespeare, Boccaccio, Swin
burne, and others.
Completing the exhibition is some 
splendid work produced by the Labo
ratory Press of the Department of 
Printing, and some plates designed by 
Professor Porter Garnett.
Dr. Alfred Stansfield, professor of 
j metallurgy at McGill University, gave 
| two interesting lectures at Carnegie 
| Tech last Thursday and Friday nights 
I on iron and steel.
j His first lecture was on Producj tion of Steel and Iron from Metalie 
j Charges, and the second on Produc
tion of Steel and Iron from Iron Ore. 
In his lectures he went deeply into 
modern methods; discussed the eco
nomic side of production, considering 
the rapid advances made, especially 
j in electrical methods. A discussion of 
j picture methods proved very good and 
served to show the broad fields stillj remaining in this industry, 
j The lecturers which were free to the 
I public, were attended by many iron 
; and steel manufacturers from the 
| Pittsburgh district, as well as stu! dents.
PLEBE DRAMATS TO
GIVE FIRST PLAY
(Continued From Page 1) 
and Euripides in prospect, we were 
glad .that Mr. Paynes new play per
mitted us to come back into the every
day world where people go to the thea
ter merely to be amused. And a right 
good comedy it is, "The Bird in 
Hand. The audience laughed and 
chuckled and beamed with content
ment from the firBt rise to the final 
fall of the curtain. Yorkshire coun
try folk, and universal human nature, 
and a bit of genial fun at the expense 
of prohibition, the inevitable love 
story sketched not too heavily; no 
wonder we all liked it, and congratu
late Mr. Payne both as author and pro
ducer.
The actors carried the play well, en
tering heartily into the fun of it with
out overdoing the characterization. 
There was no mor hokum than the 
setting warranted. Verner I-Ialdenes 
portentious legal sniffs were a thing 
to remember, and Ben Weinblatt gave 
the English rustic with a broad hu
mor that brought him near to Falstaffs own tavern. Mary Power gave 
a Mrs. Throxton who was quite some
thing new in shrews. The roll of her 
eyes at "our Albert was equivalent 
to an earfull of vituperation. Not that 
the lady was speechless! But she her
self was funnier than anything she 
said.
Joe Lazarus too was at his screamingest in dumb show. The way he let 
the scheme dawn upon him, and his 
business of egging on the bashful 
suitor were a comedy in themselves. 
Ellen Lowe and Janet Millis showed 
a delicate humor of their own in the 
two leading womens parts, and 
Charles McCarthy gave a very win
ning young poet, but one returns again 
to chuckle in retrospect over the rus
tics Roger Thorpe (Arvid Crandall) 
and Adam Hartley (Russell Spindler). 
After all, tills is a play about an Inn, 
and we shall remember the Inn long 
after wo have forgotten the slight love 
story of which it is the scene. If Eng
lish Inns are like that, 110 wonder Mr. 
Chesterton writes lyrics and novels 
defending them so vehemently. The 
Bird in Hand Inn has caught some 
reflection of the great genial glory 
of the Tabard and the Mermaid, the 
magic of true English humor.
Group of Special Courses 
To be Given in M.M.C.C.
A group of special short courses in 
home economics for women who have 
sufficient leisure will be given during 
the next three months in the Margaj ret Morrison Carnegie College. These 
new courses are offered as another 
step in the. Institutes policy to extend 
its facilities.
The classes have been outlined to. 
appeal especially to housewives, and 
to women who are concerned with the 
intelligent development of the prob
lems of home. The subjects of the 
courses are announced as Problems 
in Child Feeding, Marketing and Meal 
Planning, Dressmaking, Millinery, and 
Art. Dyeing.
Each course will consist of one ex
ercise a week, for a period of from 
eight to ten weeks. All classes will 
begin during the week of February 
4th. As a result of the response that 
has already developed from the pre
liminary announcements, the school 
authorities expect a heavy enrollment 
on Monday and Tuesday, January 28th 
and 29th.
CARNEGIE WILL HAVE A
UNIQUE BUNGALOW SOON
(Continued From Page One.) 
dents enrolled dn these courses are 
ambitious apprentices in tirades, who 
are taking this wayi to expert work 
and advancement. More than thirtyfive per cent are clerks or bookkeepCH EM IC ALS TO HEAR FINE
LECTURES ON PROFESSION
(Continued From Page One.)
W. L. Badger, University of Michi
gan ; Evaporation.
Friday, March 7tli; A. E. Marshall, 
Baltimore, Md.; "Mechanical Methods 
of Handling Chemical Plant Mate
rials.
Thursday, March 13th; F. M. Tur
ner, Jr., Chemical Catalog Co., New 
York; Crushing, Grinding, Sifting, 
and Mixing Equipment.
Friday, March 20th; Dr. Fred C. 
Zeisberg, Chemical Department of E. 
I. du Pont de Nemours and Company; 
"Equipment Phases of Nitric and Sul
phuric Acid Manufacture.
These lectures will cover most of 
the phases of chemical engineering 
dealing directly with those processes 
which constitute a large part of the 
chemical engineers problems.
ers who are attracted by the high 
wages commanded by manual labor
ers. A couple of the students are 
college graduates who have found 
that all theory does not pay, so they 
have come to learn some practical 
work with which to supplement their 
theoretical knowledge.
PLANS FINISHED FOR
FEATURES OF JUNIOR PROM
PLEA
In the parlor, O my darlin',
When the lights are dim and low, 
That your face is thickly powdered, 
How am I, sweetheart, to know?
Every week I have to cany 
Every coat that I possess 
To the cleaners. Wont you darlin', 
Love me more, and powder less?
Yellow Jacket.
Dancers Meet and Try for Prize
Judges Prove That They Are Wise
(Continued From Page One.) 
distract from the colorful effect of 
the Prom.
Just now the ticket sale is the im
portant item1 to be considered, because 
the committee must know almost ex
actly how many are going to be in at
tendance in order to make the proper 
arrangements with the liot&l authori
ties. Alumni will be taken care of at 
the door, but all Juniors and Seniors 
must purchase their tickets in ad
vance.
Series of Addresses of Special 
Interest to Students.
Asbury Methodist 
Episcopal Church
BURT DAVID EVANS, D.D.
Sunday morning at 11 oclock 
Building a Working Faith. 
The Spiritual Faculty, The Quest 
of God, Man and the Cosmos, 
Modern Science and the Origin 
of Life, The Garden of Eden.
Sunday evening at 8 oclock 
The Re-Discovery of Jesus, The 
Teaching of Jesus, Jesus and 
Spiritual Religion, The Educa
tion of Jesus, Jesus and Radi
calism.
SQUIBS BY THE COLONEL
said that dancing is the sum total of 
present-day youthful exlstonce. Such 
is not so, except in the cases of 
"cookie-pushers, or "finale-hoppers 
whose social ambition in life seems to 
be to kno\y the very latest in dance, 
steps, and to be letter-perfect in the 
Ocean Roll, and tho Fidgety-Fidge. 
It is to be hoped that the new Dancing, like any other art is the
laws rogulatlng the issue of fake result of inspiration. Harry HamilDent-al diplomas will have teeth in ton, representing the Alphn Tau
them. ; Omega fraternity, dancing with Miss
------------------------ I Janet Pery, certainly was inspired
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS | when he whirled his way to fame at
Dancing dates back to antedeluvian | the Sine Nomihe dance in the Un
days, wlion prohlstoric mothers around I in, Friday, January 11, 1924, when
the elite of Carnegies social reg- ihlstorlc camp-firos, discussed the . . . . , . u,.,...,*!I ister participated In the elimination
dancing tondancies of prehistoric contost which featured tho dance, 
youth, while said youth frolicked in Our sympathies were with Miss 
a prehistoric conception of the terpsi-1 Spurrier and Madame Karpova whose 
chorean art. duty and pleasure it was to select.
Lord Someono-or-Other, who proba- from eleven whirling couples the one 
bly Uthped and wore a monocle, has j which was most accomplished in ball
room dancing. Their choice was much 
applauded.
Since tho elimination dance was 
such a success, inasmuch as it proved 
a drawing card, it might be well to 
frequently include an elimination con
test in future dance programs.
. If any of us feel that we spend too 
much time in tea-dancing, we can ease 
ouir consciences by remembering that 
our dancing days are numbered, inas
much as increasing yearsand weight 
are not conductive of such strenu
ous action.
FOR SALE
Attractive three-storv brick 
house in Schenley Farms Dis
trict, containing 15 rooms and 
6 baths, suitable for Fraternity 
purposes. Price reasonable.
We have other good houses, 
priced $16,000.00 to $45,000.00. 
All well located, handy to the 
University or Carnegie Tech. 
See
LAWTON REAL ESTATE CO., 
436 Diamond Street.
Phone Court 1348.
The Vagabond Club
OF/ THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL 
3904 FORBES STREET
LOOK!
Ladies and Gentlemens Apparel Cleaned, Pressed 
and Mended.
Shoe Shining and Laundry Service.
"Work called for and delivered.
THE STUDENT VALET SHOPPE
Student Management.
107 WELCH HALL C. I. T. Phone Schenley 9468

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
THIEL IS VICTIM
GAME WITH PITT IS NEXT
ON BASKET BALL PROGRAM
OF SKIROS The next varsity basket ball gameLiU wT: takeg place on the evening o Pebi
ruary 5, when the Plaid fraternizes 
with the Pitt basketers on the home] 
court. Not the least 'important thing 
about this game is that it will be 
the first to take place in the new 
gymnasium. Have your pep all there 
and be prepared to cheer the boys 
on to another glorious victory over 
the Blue and Gold. Ben Lubic wants 
to beat his Alma Mater.
Powerful Attack and Tight 
Defense Mean Ruin to 
Plucky Visitors
There is no joy in Greenville, lor c 
their mighty Thiel is beaten. A 
squad of fast, husky and determined 
lads invaded the realms of the Skibos Saturday intending to make it 
three losses in a row for the Tar
tans, but the Plaid had) other plans 
for the evening and emerged from 
the smoke or uattte on the heavy, 
side of a 29 to 24 score.
Thiel -football teams have .always 
been hard to beat, and it seems that 
her basket ball teams are equally 
spunky. Not for long was the Plaid 
to enjoy the lead with which they 
started Out the second half. At first 
the Tartan defense seemed well-nigh 
impregnable, but soon the Greenville 
passers found some unprotected ave
nue to the basket, and Raub tied the 
score with a pretty basket.
At this stage of the game it looked 
somewhat like a Thiel victory, for 
with the score tied, the visitors 
seemed to feel a new spirit within 
themselves and had shortly amassed 
a lead of several points. But with 
the score against them at 17 to 14, 
the Carnegie Tech then lecidfd 
things had gone far enough that way 
and proceded to annex a few points 
via the foul and field goal route 
Once more in the van, the SlSboswere never headed1.
The work of Mefort in' caging four 
field goals must ibe mentioned, as 
well as the scoring of the forwards, 
Anderson and Dosey, who scored two 
goals each. Beede and Mohrman at 
guard were a constant menace to the 
advancing; opponents, and it is sel
dom that the locals goal has been 
so well protected. The secret of the 
Tartan victory lay in team work,
however, and not in the spectacular 
perfoimance of any single individual.
The visitors must be given credit 
for having a fast, accurately passing 
and' well-coacheu team. The work 
of Christman and Mould at guard and 
of Rauib at 'forward was particularly 
impressive.
Tech29. Thiel24.
Dosey .......................F................ Zundel
Anderson.................F.................... Raub
Mefort .....................C.............. Forsyth
Mohrman ...............G------- Christman
Beede ......................G................. Mould
Score by periods:
Tech ..................................... 11 1829
Thiel ..................................... 9 1524
Field goalsDosey 2 .Anderson 2, 
Mefort 4, Mohrman, Zundel, Raub 2, 
Mould 3. Foul goalsTech, 11 out of 
19; Thiel, 12 out of 16. Substitutions 
Bell for Mould, Mould for Forsyths. 
RefereeWestlake.
WATCHING OUR OPPONENTS
Pitt 33, Vanderbilt 31.
Pitt 32, Amherst 21.
Pitt 31, Geneva 22.
Pitt: 35, Allegheny College 30. 
Pitt 45, Bethany 32.
Pitt 23, West Virginia 25. 
Westminster 23, Waynesburg 22. 
Grove Cily 22, Geneva 19.
Commercial Engineers 
To Engage in Research
Organization Problems to be 
Subject of Studies
During the second semester of tin* 
current year, the Senior Commercial 
Engineers will be engaged in original 
research on city, state and national 
current problems. The department 
has been working on the plans for 
the past semester, and they have 
made arrangements whereby the Sen
iors may work through the various 
(Downtown organization, doing orig
inal research on matters pertaining 
to the problems of the organizations, 
or any other problems as may come 
up.
The Chamber of Commerce has 
made the Commercial Department an 
official branch of the Research Divi
sion of that organization This body 
Will furnish the Students with prob
lems, which will be entirely practical, 
ami up to date. The I-Iousinig Asso
ciation has made similar arrange
ments,1 and there will be work of this 
organization carried on by the stu
dents.
The work for the state will be of 
a similar nature, and the students 
will work on Commonwealth prob
lems, dealing with the distribution 
and changes of population. This 
will afford the student practical work 
of this nature, and as a further 
problem, there will be work on the 
power and industrial development in 
th^e Commonwealth.
Dr. Rittman has been working for 
the past few months, negotiating with 
the Department of Agriculture, In 
Washington, for plans whereby the 
students may do original work for 
that organization on the collection 
and development of crop and agricul
tural statistics. This will be inter
esting work, and the students will 
get real value from it.
Unlike the research . classes in 
other schools, this class has been 
formed with the idea to help the stu
dent meet new and current problems. 
There will be very little of the dry 
library work, which one associates 
with research, but instead, real stud
ies will be made of things as they 
really are, not as they have been. 
The students, when they graduate, 
will then he up to date, and will 
have a thorough knowledge of the 
fields of such organizations as they 
may work with. The course will be 
one carrying nine units of credit, and 
will be held under the supervision 
of Dr. Rittman, who has been doing 
a great deal of the work on the 
State Power Suirvey. The study will 
be carried out in two ways, either
Athletic Letters Are 
Awarded at Assembly
---------------
Nineteen Given For Football 
and Nine For Cross Country
DOPE ON THE PROM
At the last General Assembly many 
of our noted athletes received rewards 
for their services to the school.
Certificates were aAvardod to the 
football men and the cross country 
team. Those who received football 
certificates were Capt. Jimmy Robert
son, Jimmy Anderson, O. B. Newman, 
Max Bastian, H. I. Mefort, C. L. Hable, 
A.' E. Zelt, C. C. Brumbaugh, B. J. 
Kristof, G. L. Comfort, E. M. Gilbert, 
L. Yoder, C. Anderson, A. Cass, J. F. 
Taylor, B. L. Pittman, M. R. Schell, 
M. M. Goodwin, W. H. Ryan, manager, 
and G. R. Gossard, Freshmen, mana
ger.
The following cross country men re
ceived certificates: H. E. Dykeman, 
H. L. Henderer. W. J. Kimmel, C. L. 
Atwood, J. G. Bright, W. E. Bender, 
G. A. Foller, D. H. Gottwalls and H. 
F. Wilson, manager.
Silver loving cups were given to the 
winners of the Fall Teams Tourna
ment. Mary Heilig and Dorothy 
Steele received their cups as winners 
of the Doubles Tournament and Ted 
Moessner and Pratt for the Tennis 
Singles.
FARAGHER DISCUSSES LUBRI
CATION AT C. M. E. S. MEET
v DateFebruary 1. *
v PlaceHotel Schenley. v
-> OrchestraDave Harmons. S*
* Tne9 P. M. to 2 A. M. v
Grand March -10 P. M. *
Supper12 M. v
*!* FavorsAbsolutely. v
v Assessment?9.
v EligibilityAny man who has at- * 
J* tended any college three years, * 
Alumni TicketsAt door. *
v Student TicketsNow on sale, v
CALIFORNIA FIVE 
AVENGES DEFEATOn the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
Triumph Over Plebes, 35-16 
on Home Floor; Plaid 
Gets Slow Start
RIFLE TEAM SCORES WINS 
OVER PITI' AND SYRACUSE
The Carnegie Mechanical Engineer
ing Society held a meeting in Ma
chinery Hall last Tuesday night. W. 
F. Faragher, of the Mellon Institute, 
gave a very instructive talk on Lu
brication. He outlined the develop
ment of the oil industry, methods of 
refining the different kinds of oils, and 
some of the uses to which they are 
put. After the talk, questions were 
answered by the speaker in an in
formal discussion.
The attendance was very poor. In 
fact, the Mechanical society is mak
ing the worst showing of any of the 
departments this year. The fault is 
due as much to the officers as to the 
students, as no special attempt is 
made to advertise the meetings or to 
'induce the members to attend. The 
C. M. E. S. has always been one of 
the most prominent organizations on 
the campus until this year, ard the 
Mechanicals should get together and 
work up more interest in the society.
Carnegie Tech's rifle team opened 
the season with a bang. When the 
smoke had cleared away in the opeuer 
Syracuse had 4S9 points and Carnegie 
had 492 markers.
Then on Tuesday, January 15, the 
Skibos met and vanquished the 
famed Pitt squadron of'sharp shoot
ers. The match was shot on the 
Armory range, and the margin of vic
tory was a scant two points. Six men 
from each team shot and the five high
est were scored.
In the near future, the Pitt rifle 
team will be entertained by the Plaid 
in a return match. The results of 
the two meets were as follows:
SyracuseSales 100, Heffeman 9S, 
McCullum 98, Porter 97, Love DG; to
tal 489.
CarnegieDarnall 100, Murrey 100, 
Hughes 98, Stewart 97, Pierce 97; to
tal 492.
PittCoss 99, McFarlan 98, Hoover 
9S, Means 9G, Hoyt 94; total. 4S5.
CarnegieI-Iamill 99, Darnall 98, 
Murrey 98, Jarema 97, Pierce 95; to
tal 487.
Going down to California, Pa., on 
Saturday, the Carnegie Tech Plebe 
basket ball team lost to the Califor
nia Normal quintet by the score of 
35 to 16.
The game during the first half was 
somewhat similar to the one played 
between these two teams at the Field 
House the preceding Saturday, in 
that the Plebes were slow in get
ting started.
The score at the end of the first 
half was 16 to 10 in favor of the 
home aggregation. The California 
team played) well, .profiling by the 
lesson of the previous meeting with 
Plaid yearlings, and having the ad
vantage of playing on their own 
court.
Maurer led the scoring for the 
Plebes with three fleld goals, while 
Lynch and Snethen each bagged one. 
Plununer and Levinson started the 
game at guard, and broke up many 
California offensives. The lineup:
Tech Fresh. Normal.
Maurer .................F.................. Weaver
Lynch .................F...................... Mills
Snethen ..............C_______ Woodward
Plummer ............G.............. Aschman
Levinson .............G.................... Bruci
, Field goals  Maurer 3, Lynch, 
Aschman, Weaver 4, Mills 6, Wood
ward 2, Aschman. Foul goals-Tech, 
6 out of 16; Calfornia Normal, 9 out. 
of 17. 'SubstitutionsBurnside for 
Snethen, Foldsteln for Plummer, 
banning for Weaver, Travis for 
Mills, Aschman for Woodward, Lee 
for . Aschman, Keister for Bruce. 
RefereeMates.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital - - - - 
Surplus - - - - 
Dposits, Over -
- $300,000.00
- $300,000.00 
 $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
MELACHPJNO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
SECRETARIAL CLUB WILL
HOLD A BENEFIT BRIDGE
The Secretarial Club will give a 
benefit bridge on Saturday, February 
1G, in McCreeryis dining room to 
which all the girls on the campus 
at the present timeand all those who 
have been here at some other time 
are cordially invited. The price will 
be one dollar each or four dollars a 
table. The proceeds are to be used 
for a scholarship which the club will 
grant next year.
The committee is working hard to 
make this bridge a success and they 
hope for a large attendance of both 
students and graduates. The exams 
which the students are worrying 
about now will be over, and the June 
exams will be too far away to be 
worth worrying about, so all will be 
able to enjoy tl.-emselves.
1.165 STUDENTS TAKE PART
IN SPORTS AT NOTRE DAME
Approximately 1,165 students par
ticipated in orgauizedi athletics at the 
University of Notre Dame during the 
past year, according to the report of 
Ivnute Iv. Rockne, director or ath
letics at the Institution, made pub
lic today. The table Included in the 
report shows the number participat
ing in the various sports as follows: 
Football, 400; cross-country, 45; 
basket ball, 150; swimming, GO; 
wrestlllng,50; boxing, 120; track, 200; 
hockey, 4i0; baseball, 1,000; tennis, 
350, and golf, 150. it Is also pointed 
out that a majority of the studonta 
took part' In more than one branch 
of sports.
MUSIC RECITAL PROGRAM
as Individuals, or in groups of two 
oi- three, and the compilation of the 
material will be done in the mari
ner proscribed for such work. This 
is another step toward the goal of 
making Carnegie Tech's Commercial 
Engineering Department the best or 
its kind in the world.
1. Franck. Sonata for Violin and 
Piano Allegro
Armand Vendltti, Jeanette S'patholt
2. Saint-Sans. Allegro appassionato
Harriet Blose 
.I. Saint-Sans. Introduction and 
Rondo Capriccioso
Edward Stribrny
4. Woodman. In the night.
Watts. Bluo are her eyos 
LaForge. To a messenger
Juliet Bartlottl
5. Mozart. Sonata in B flat for 'Cello 
and piano
Allegro, poco maestoso 
Andante
Allegro non troppo, ma giocoso 
Dorothy Trombley, Katherine Hossler 
G. Guilmant. Finale from Organ 
Concerto, Op. 42
Alfred H. Johnson 
Accompanists 
Alice Nelson, Matthew N. Fiyjy.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
[ NTERMURAL BASKETBALL
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
Alpha Tau Omega .............................52 McGill ..................
Acacia ......................................................19 Delta Chi Rho .
Beta Sigma Rho .............................1G Beta Theta Pi .
Kappa Sigma Rho ...............................13 Delta Upsilon ..
Acacia...................................................22 Beta Theta Pi .
Alpha Tau Omega ...............................17 Delta Upsilon ..
Kppa Sigma Rho ...............................15 Beta Sigma Rho
McGill ..................................................... 9 Delta Chi Rho ..
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team. Games.
Alpha Tau Omega...................................................... 2
Acacia ........................................................................... 2
Kappa Sigma Rho....................................................... 2
McGill ........................................................................... 2
Beta Sigma Rho ........................................................ 2
Delta Upsilon .............................................................. 2
Beta Theta Pi ............................................................ 2
Delta Chi Rho ............................................................. 2
W.
2
2
2
1
1
0
0
0
..........1G
..........12
..........10
..........2
Pctf.
1.000
1.000
1.000
.500
.500
.000
.000
.000
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
Kappa Epsilon .....................................20 Delta Phi Delta .................................... 4
Scobell :................................................22 Woodlawn ...............................................14
Kappa Sigma .........'..........................16 Sigma Epsilon Phi ................................................... 9
Scobell ....................................................25 Delta Phi Delta ................................... 8
Woodlawn ...........................................27 Kappa Epsilon ......................................12
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .........................30 Sigma Epsilon Phi ............................12
LEAGUE STA.NDING 
Team. Games. W. L. Pet.
Scobell ................................................................................ 2 2 0 1.000
Sigma Alpha Epsilon .................................................... 1 1 0 1.000
Kappa Sigma .................................................................... 1 1 0 1000
Woodlawn .......................................................................... 2 1 1 .500
Kappa Epsilon .................................................................. 2 .1 1 .500
Delta Phi Delta ................................................................ 2 0 2 .000
Sigma Epsilon Phi .......................................................... 2 0 2 .000
Iota Sigma Delta ............................................................ 0 0 0 .000
FEDERAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
Delta Mu .......................................16 Bons .........................................................13
Welch ....................................................39 I-Iendernon ............................................. 7
Pi Kappa Alpha ................................15 Delta Tau Delta .......................................
Theta XI .......................................20 Welch ......................................................17
Delta Tau Delta .................................20 Delta Mu ................................................ 5
Welch ....................................................2G Bons ....................................................>..14
Theta Xi .......................................29 I-Ienderson ...............................................12
LEAGUE STANDING 
Team. Games.
Theta Xi..................................................................................... 2
PI Kappa Alpha....................................................................... 1
Welch ........................................................................... 3
Delta Tau Delta....................................................................... 2
Delta Mu ...............................i..................................... 2
Boss ........................................................................................... 2
Henderson ................................................................................. 2
Sigma Nu .................................................................................. 0
W.
2
1
2
1
1
0
0
0
Pct.
1.000
1.000
.666
.500
.500
.000
.000
.000
SOLILOQUY
To cram, or not to cram,
That is the question,
Whether !tis nobler in a student.
To cram and pass In all his coursos, 
Or to take up arms against an an
cient system 
And by opposing end it; to fail, to 
flunk,
no more. And ,by such flunk wo 
hope we end 
The heartaches and the many sleep
less nights 
Wo now are heir to; 'tis a consum
mation
Devoutly to bo wishd. To fall, to 
flunk:
To flunk, ay, theres the ml)
For thru such flunks, what things 
may come,
When we htivo shuffled off Car
negies stage 
Must give us pause. There's the 
thing
That'll make us all drink black 
coffee.
TARTAN STAFF VOTES ON 
POLICY FOR ASSEMBLIES
ARE INTRA-MURAL SPORTS A MENACE?
Intra-mural basket ball is now well under way and most of the teams 
have played at: least two games. Those games that have been played have 
demonstrated that in many cases the real spirit of sportsmanship has not 
been present.
Inter-fraternity and dormitory basket ball was originally started to pro
mote good fooling among the various fraternities and dormitories represent
ed. The primary purpose was not the good that would ho derived from a 
greater number of men taking part In organized athletics, nor was it entered 
into with the thought, that some good varsity material might, bo uncovered. 
No, the real purpose behind the move for such sports was the good It would 
do among the men of the different groups on the campusthe promotion of 
an esprit do corps, so to speak.
II through any means Intra-mural sports fall to promote this spirit, and 
encourage instead one of more bitter rivalry, then intra-mural sports become 
a dangerous plaything which Is likely to start the llros of hatred and sus
picion In the conflicting groups.
Last week a game took place between two fraternities, one of which 
was high up In the league and the other of which did not have a perfect 
record in gamos won. The latter team in a frenzy to win, it seemed, did 
almost everything short of actual slugging. A very nasty spirit sprang up 
among the opposing players, which we hope did not last after the game was 
over and the teams had left, the floor. But it is only too easy to let a bitter 
feeling smoulder, especially if the losing team feels that It could have won 
In some way, had luck just favored them a little more.
The Ideals of no fraternity would sanction unsportsmanlike conduct in 
any case. The group, fraternity or dorpiltory, which can hold to' the prin
ciples of good sportsmanship, whether they are winning or losing, is keep
ing faith with their own self-respect and is winning the respect and admira
tion of all who observe.
If intra-mural athletics are going to foster a spirit of hatred instead of 
genial good-fellowship, let us have no more of such sports. But if we want 
fraternity and dormitory games let us see to It that they are conducted on a 
high plane of good sportsmanship.
As they used to tell us In Sunday school, "It Isnt whether you won or 
lost that matters, its HOW YOU PLAYED THE GAME.
GOLFERS, AND WOULD-BES, ATTENTION!
Maybe those people who have the mental attainments and the natural 
superiority of the confirmed golfer do not read this luminous vehicle of truth. 
Which will explain, no doubt, why so few devotees of the Scotch pastime saw 
the notice addressed to them in the last sissue.
The gist, of the matter is this: that the Athletic Council has decided to 
start a golf team Ip the spring If enough onthu&asm can bo found among the 
students. Aspirants for the maiden golf team of Carnegie Tech were asked 
to report to Graduate Manager Overend. Thus far, live men have signified 
their willingness to support such a team.. Obviously, with only five men 
trying for the squad, a golf team would be very much out of the question.
So now, golfers, if you wish to be recognized as you should bo, hand 
your name In pronto to Mr. Ovorond, and wo shall soo what we shall see.
??????------FEB. 511111!,
As far as we are concernod, to bo or not to bo is NOT the question. 
There is no question about It, in fact. We just have to beat Pitt again, and 
that ain't all. Wo luivo to boat them In two ways. Wo luivo to boat them 
on the floor and wo have to boat them at the cheering, and gonoral spirit of 
fighting good sportsmanship.
Already, Mr. Orbin, not caring to take any chances of having to repair 
the roof, has glvon orders to have said covering anchored securely and 
equipped with shock absorbers, cause Pitt, suro Is coming ovor with the idea 
of raising the roof right off of our now gym. They admit, itthey don't have 
to prove It. And right there Is whore wo have to boat them In anothor way. 
It' Pitt has 2,000 studonts thoro, wo have to have at least 4,000, and tho new 
gym wont hold many more than that, according to a Math shark who figured 
it out by maximum and minimum Calculus, Now, llstonBE THERE!
Gallagher: Washington was tho
most honest man that ovor livod.
Shoan: Thou why do they closo
all of tho banks on his birthday?
Buoknolllan.
The SlnQor Pen & Gift Shop In tho 
Jcnklnn Aroado will give you reauonablo prlcen on entiling oardn, danoc 
programs, favorn, ErTFYYT plnu, rlngn, 
pillow topn, otc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or OrTT you a hotter 
one.Adv,
rt us to bo
That when
A girl's shnoalrlng
Caino untied
It was tho proper thing
For Ivor escort.
To to II. up again.
But now
With flhooHtvlngH whore they nro 
Oh, well....!
Youth must have Its fling, especially 
when tho girl thrown him ovor.
At a. mooting of Tho Tartan HtalT 
last Saturday tho following roconi 
inondation was unanimously adopt tul 
In regard to future Gonoral Assem
blies. Iti was voted to publish a copy 
of this recommendation and present 
tho same to tho Student Council at 
Its Jiext regular mooting.
FirstThat a moro varied assem
bly program bo used In the future.
SecondThat tho next; Gonoral As
sembly bo held In the now gym In 
the J'orm of a pop rally, and 
ThirdThat two General Assem
blies be held) monthly, one In tho 
new gym as a puirely student affair, 
Hie other In th Music Hall with an 
outside speaker.
NINE HUNDRED RIP VAN 
WINKLES FAIL TO SEE 
THE SPEAKER'S WRINKLES
(Continued From Page One.)
"Buddy Overends foot is asleep. 
Watch him try to walk on it.
What a student' thinks at general 
Assembly, by Briggs.
The music of the mens Glee Club 
was especially appreciated.
But he didn't say when.
Were we supposed to have a 
stunt? If so, was it a good stunt, and 
will we ever find out what it was?
"Now for the eats!
Frankly, man to man, could anybody 
make a story out of this material? 
Since the address was about diplomats 
and their diplomatic activities (not to 
mention jail the Mrs. Diplomats), don't 
you think the best course was to set 
it down frankly, and with nothing con
cealed?
Exactly, thats just the way we fig
ured.
Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you 
for your kind attention. Better luck, 
next time.
GARBER-DAVIS WILL
PLAY AT ARTS BALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
week to decide on the plan of exeeution. Bill Adalr has added to Lhe col
lection of Chinese costumes, and Is de
sirous of making suggestions as to de
sign and construction.
Oble Newman, In charge of publici
ty, will have accounts of the ball In 
the city papers, with pictures of the 
queen, the prize costumos and Lhe dec
orations.
From all Indications the "Feast of 
the Lanterns will he one of the best 
Arts Ball ever staged.
AT THE THEATER
Patroness: Where is my seat?
Usher: "Your seat is at the end of 
U, madam.
Patroness: Sir!
for Winter Wether
An cxtcmiivo election 
of the neweut anti boot 
in iilioe wii he iihown by
David T. Kirkpatrick at
ai tho
SK I BO I N N
Tuesday 
and 
Wednesday 
January 29 and 30
Scores tn Mw'fot-k .Brooklyn, N CTvark Flua,Address lo*- vIiiL Orde Hi Duane attnret-NmvYccckCity
"Wiiiit wiui tho mnttor with Irofoiwor Wonry till inorfjiiiKt Ivo hovor on him mi pi'ovoil. Ho uoinuU tn bo linlllhK ovor,"
Pythias
"llollllllt ovor In Klimt. I to 
wan. Dldll'l you liotlM why? Thu old boy hud ml* Inid Ill Idhtui'udu pencil.
GARBE
~Wc vwsrcrdmwtngpcncii~
17 bn,Itnil tbaltn
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
Stretching Your 
Income
Only through careful, sys
tematic and efficient handling 
of your funds can you make 
the most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride In promot
ing the financial welfare of 
our customers and are ever 
ready to assist in the solu
tion of their financial problems.
Your savings and checking 
accounts, even though small, 
are welcome here.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsburgh, Pa.
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1880. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jos. P. Flaher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

new
Dress Suits to Rent
ORDER NOW FOR THE
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
WHITTSNGTOM DRESS SUIT CO
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfleld 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Hours: 8:30-5:30
! DO Y0$ KNOW? ]
That the gym floor will bo made of 
wood block, laid with tho grain enda 
up, and polished with Hand, to inaure 
a smooth surface? These v/lll be bet
ter than anything up to the present 
timo, which has been uaed for thin 
purpose.
That Herb Polosle ha written the 
plot for a Musical Comedy and 'that 
Vorn Halden wroto tho mimic?
That thoro are only two more days
of BCllOOl?
That Wally Steffen will receive 
$5,000 for tho Beaaon of 1924.
That thoro 1O a penalty of one dol
lar per day for lato registration.' An
other dollar, as It wore.
Pitt Game to Open 
Our New Gymnasium
Five Hundred Tickets for 
Alumni to be Reserved
Another big day on Carnegie calen
dar 1O drawing near. It la the opening 
of tho new gymnasium with Pitt in 
basket ball scheduled for February 5. 
Everything is shaping up fine and 
preparations are being made to liandlo a large crowd. The seats have 
been shipped and will arrive In due 
time.
Over 550 reserved seat tickets will 
be available for alumni. This section, 
which is on the Carnegie street side 
of the floor, contains some of the 
best seats on the floor. All other 
tickets will be sold as general admis
sion.
Ample room will be afforded so 
that out-of-town Alumni will be as
sured of a good reserved seat. Watch 
the Tartan next week for final ar
rangements concerning tickets for this 
game.
GLEE CLUB SCORES
SUCCESS AT P. C. W.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
February. The concert on February 
15 Is to bo held at the Sewlckley 
Country Club. On February 20 the 
club starts on the Ohio trip and stops 
first at Orville. Then on February 21, 
22 and 23, concerts will be given at 
Youngstown, Akron, and Canton.
j DO YOU RECALL?
PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
In Prizes for the Prize Cap
^ For the bost sontenco of ten words or less on the value^ 
of tho Williams Hinge-Cap, wo offer the following prizos:
1st prize, $100; 2nd prize, $50; two 3rd prizos, $25 each; 
two 4th prizes, $10 oach; six 5th prizos, $5 each. Any 
undergraduato or graduate student is eligible. If two or 
more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy 
of prizes, the full amount of the prize will bo awarded to 
oach. Contest closes at midnight March 14,1924. Winners 
will bo announced as soon thereafter as possible. Sub
mit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper 
only, putting name, address, college and class at top of 
each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The 
J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
Williams is as much better to shave with as the HingeCap is better than other caps: The lather is heavier and 
holds the moisture in againstyour beard. Quickersoftening 
results. Also, Williams lather lubricates the skin. There 
is noticeable absence of irritating razor friction. And 
Williams takes good care of the skin. Though you shave 
daily, your face remains smooth and feels comfortable. 
Williams is a pure, natural-white cream absolutely with
out coloring matter. Try it!
Hinge-Cap on 
Williams Shaving 
Cream is "on even 
when its off
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
PROF LONG RETURNS FROM
EXTENDED EUROPEAN TRIP 
---------
I A news notice from Mineapolis in- i 
forms us that Professor and Mrs. H. | 
C. Long of our English Department 
has just returned from a several i 
months stay in France and Italy.
Professor Long is on a leave of ab-! 
sence for one year.
Industrial Dept.
Work Explained
Director Connelley Speaks 
Before Gathering
Director C. D. Connelly delivered 
some very interesting addresses to 
the boys of various hlgli schools in 
this city from January ninth to the 
eleventh. His message was on "The 
Dignity of Labor. He explained to 
the boys the real meaning of the word 
Dignity, and offered many useful 
and helpful suggestions for their fu
ture. He discussed in detail the four 
and one half-montli course in automo
bile construction that will open here 
at Carnegie Tech in February. This 
course will be open to high school 
graduates ouly.
The advantages of the course are 
that upon completion it will give him 
credit towards his college work or if 
he does not go to college he will earn 
a minimum wage of five dollars per 
day. This will certainly be a wonder
ful opportunity for those that may be 
interested in that line of work.
On January 16 he addressed the 
Ohio S'tate Association of Builders' 
Exchange at their annual meeting 
held at the Courtland Hotel, Canton, 
Ohio. His subject was "The Appren
ticeship Question. He pointed out 
the reason for a labor shortage, which 
is due to two things: the restriction 
of immigration and the failure to re
cruit workers by a suitable system of 
apprenticeship. The loss by immigra
tion affects the industries requiring 
considerable common labor while the 
loss from apprenticeship affects the 
skilled trades. The solution for the 
latter is due to devise a system of ap
prenticeship that it'based upon a thor
ough study of the fundamental ques
tionHow many new workers are 
needed each year in a trade?
Taking for instance the plumbing 
and heating tradeit has more ad
vantages and opportunities for the 
average boy mechanically inclined 
than any other trade, occupation, or 
profession. It offers more money in 
a ten year period of life than the ma
jority of trades or occupations. Af
ter a four years training, plumbing 
and heating will give a boy a highly 
profitable trade and interesting and 
constructive work, which offers unlim
ited possibilities for mechanical and 
commercial ability. This trade will 
pay a boy good wages while he is 
learning and make him worth even 
more In the long run that he can seWhen a Maggie Murph got the Car
negie Hero Medal for bravery in 1911?
When the Architects had a William 
Goat Club, and 15 of them wore whis
kers, incurring the wrath of the Co
eds for a long time? The fine for 
shaving was $5.00 in 1911.
When the Maggie Murphs started 
courses in sewing and shirtwaist mak
ing, in courses prescribed for married 
women in 1911?
When the Schenley Hotel was not 
used for the Junior Prom 19.. ..?
LIVELY TIME PROMISED 
AT ANNUAL CLAN DINNER
A lively time is promised to those 
who attend the annual dinner of the 
New York Carnegie Clan to be given 
on February 2 at 7:00 p. m., in the 
Colonial room of the Hotel McAlpin.
As the time is drawing short, it ris 
hoped that all alumni who are lo
cated in the New York territory will 
get in touch with V. C. Ritter, 183 SL 
Nicholas avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y., to 
make reservations for the dinner.
An invitation has 'been extended 
to Mrs. Andrew Carnegie to attend. 
Good musio and dancing will form 
a part of the program.
cure at some temporary highly-paid 
job.
Another important step, even more 
fundamental than a scientific knowl
edge of the need for the workers, is 
an understanding of what modern ap
prenticeship really means. It must be 
agreed that the purpose is to train 
workers for industry rather than to 
train leaders. This fundamental ob
jective must be kept in mind, because 
much of the present day agitation is 
far from the point. Four years of ap
prenticeship training is not to be con
fused with four years school training 
in an educational institution which of
fers manual training. There are very 
few trades or technical schools that 
have shop courses that can in any real 
sense substitute for the industrial shop 
in the fundamentals of apprenticeship 
training. In some states manufact
urers have availed themselves of the 
opportunities for training students 
along various lines.
A thorough apprentice training pays 
well. It is good business not only for 
the workers but for the employer as 
well. The employer who feels that he 
cannot afford to train apprentices in 
an adequate yay pays the price in 
overhead, such as labor turnover, 
poor craftsmanship, low production, 
wasted stock, spoiled work and dam
aged equipment.
Shes false to our group, that girl. 
What now?
Here we are selling kisses to raise 
money and she is bootlegging them 
free in the conservatory.
Gold and Black.
FILMS OF CARNEGIE 
GAMES RELEASED
Five Games Shown in Film 
Which is Now in Hands 
of Graduate Manager
An exceptionally good film has been 
received by the office of the Graduate 
Manager of Athletics, showing inter
esting parts of the principal Carnegie 
football games played in 1923. Five 
games have been filmed-lncluding 
Thiel. W. & J., Pitt. Lehigh, and Notro Dame. As the past season has 
made history for the Plaid, these 
films are valuable to Carnegie men. 
They will take one back again over 
those thrilling moments of important 
games.
Because of exceptional weather con
ditions, most of these films are clear 
and give an excellent pictorial repre
sentation of the boys in action.
The two reels of film are available 
to responsible parties for showing at 
dinners and banquet. or other types 
of entertainment. It should prove a 
novel entertainment for Clan meet
ings where prospective students have 
been invited. The pair will go to
gether well as one portrays the sport 
side of Carnegie life while the other 
shows part of the social life.
Clan secretaries or entertainment 
committees are urged to write forthe 
films direct to Clarence Overend, 
Graduate Manager of Athletics, Car
negie Institute of Technology.
ROCHESTER SOCIETY HEARS 
ADDRESS BY PROMINENT 
CARNEGIE ALUMNUS OF 10
A news dispatch from Rochester, 
N. Y. informs us that O. W. A. Gett
ing, who is the chief engineer of the 
Williard Storage Battery Company re
cently addressed the Rochester En
gineering Society on "Characteristics 
of the Lead.Actd Storage Batteries.* 
Mr. Oettiug is a member of the class 
10 and is considered an authority on 
batteries, as indeed his position would 
indicate.
Willie: Your Honor, tis true that
I was speeding, but if you will give 
me a little time I will explain.
Judge: Ten days.
Kentucky Kernel.
I AKRON ALUMNI ARE 
NEXT TO ORGANIZE
Enough Alumni Now in City 
to Form Organization; 
List Published
Lets have an Akron Clan! Why 
Not? It has recently come to the 
attention of the Alumni Office that 
there are 17 former students and 
graduates of Carnegie living in or 
near Akron, Ohio. With this large 
representation as a basis, it is possi
ble to organize an active, peppy Clan, 
one which will "make itself known 
and felt in Akron by showing that 
old iCarnegie spiriL
We are publishing below the roster 
of Akron and vicinity. Tills list has 
been brought up to date as far as 
possible, but if there are any 
changes or corrections please send 
them to the Alumni Office.
'Flie people mimed on this list or 
anyi others- who have been omitted 
are urged to write the Alumni Office 
for information regarding the organi
zation of the Akron Clan.
Adolfsen, S. W., E. 15, 804 Crosby 
street, Akron, Ohio.
Baclitel, elia Helen, A 23, R. D. 
No. 2, Box 108, East Akron, Ohio.
Bee, Olen Emmit, S. 20, 5562 Pat
terson avenuie, Akron, Ohio.
Brueggemann, Edwin Louis, I. 15. 
99 South Howard street, Akron, Ohio.
Cahill, John Otto, A. 21, 745 West 
Market street, Akron, Ohio.
Feerer, Mrs. Martin M., M. Asso., 116 
North Portage Path, Akron, Ohio.
Good, A. H., A. 14, East Center 
street, Akron, Ohio.
Keeler, I-IoWard J., E. 19, 598 East 
Market street, Akron, Ohio.
Lind1, Frederick A., S. '20, 957 Aber
deen street, Akron, Ohio.
Loewy, Harriet, A. 16, 291 West 
Market street, Akron, Ohio.
Loulan, William Dewey, E. 21, 326 
Lease street, Akron, Ohio.
McCilrdy, Joseph P., S. 20, 233 
Spicer street, Akron, Ohio.
Munk, William L., E. 11, 26 East, 
Talmadge street, Akron, Ohio.
North, C. Olin, E. '14, 527 Morning 
View, Goodyear Heights, Akron, Ohio.
Spraguo, A. C., E. '16, R. D. No. 24, 
South Akron, Ohio.
Stark, Miss M. Virginia, M. Asso., 
592 West Market street, Akron, Ohio.
Hedlund, Reuben E., E. '22, Valley 
View Club, Akron, Ohio.
BEAUTY CONTEST STILL 
ALIVE AND GOING WELL
The Boauty Contest Is underway 
agnin. The pictures have been re
ceived, and the editor held consulta
tion witlr the Editor-in-chief of the 
Thistle, to pick out the ones they 
t'houight wouikl be winneisin order 
to check the ability of the judges 
Thoy naked Mr. Ashe to pass judg
ment on them and he picked his six 
most beautiful! One girl1 seems to 
staiid out as the most charming, so 
far, limit no ono knows who she is, 
for tho coii'testi is being run by num
bers, and Mr. McClary has the num
bers at his studio, and the names 
which correspond to them. This will 
lcoop politics out of tho selection.
After Dean Brown nas given the 
group' the once ovor, and has picked 
the fifty most; promising, .the pictures 
will be sent to oach of tho judges 
in turn, for their final judigment. 
Then, nifter each judge has pi cite:i 
tho winning numbers, the entire re
sults of the three judgments will be 
compared, and the number which has 
been picked the greatest number of 
times will bo acclaimed as the win
ner. The next in order will be 
chosen, and if by chance there is 
a tie, the pictures which have tied, 
will be sent back to the judges for 
final decision.
Due to the oncoming mid-years ex
aminations, all work will be stopped 
on the contest^ for the editor cannot 
keep liis mind on the contests and on 
the work in schooltherefore the 
Work on the contest will have to 
stop.
The judges will rei^eive . the pic
tures as soon after the exam period 
as it is possible for the mail man 
to deliver them, so the results should 
be back shortly after the new se
mester begins.
STUDENTS OF EUROPE
WORTHY OF OUR HELP
(Continued From Page One.) 
lief, which is aiding needy students 
in seventeen countries.
Some of the students work from 
eight to ten hours as day laborers 
'before beginning to think about 
study, states the report. One finds 
medical students shoveling coal dur
ing the day. Future lawyers and 
technical engineers clean streets and 
repair shoes to pay for their food 
and lodging. Others work as tailors, 
waiters and laundrymen. During tho 
holidays they work in tho coal minos, 
on farms or cutting down trees in 
the forests.
This system of self-help among Eu
ropean studonts was developed by 
tho European Student Relief, whose 
funds are conti'ibuited largely by 
American college students through 
the Student Friendship Fund. It has 
been worked out with.the aproval of 
tho trado union. During the past 
three years the organization has aid
ed 105,000 students, providing them 
with 'food, clothing, medicine and 
books. It plans to extend its work 
during the coming year to reach thou
sands who otherwise would be 
obliged to withdraw from the univer
sities for lack of funds.
GetExtra Credits at Home
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modem Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your collece program. Catalog describing courses fully, 
furnished on request. Write today.
<ije nibersitji of Cijitago
95 ELLIS HALL CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
Clans Are Uselessis Statement 
Made By Correspondent to Tartan
The following letter waa received by ua. Wei are publlahlng it without 
comment. Wo hope, however, that tho challenge Implied will not go un
heeded, and will be pleased to give duo publicity to all replie:
To tho Alumni Editor of the Carnegie Tartan:
Ah a graduate of Carnegie Tech, I have boeri reading the Alumni pago of 
alio Tartan, and alao the Alumnus, and It ha often occurred to me to wonder 
jjuut what the Ciano of Carnegie Tech really amount to. Every once in a 
while wo aee FFY-TrYO of Clan luneheona, and other entertainment. The Ciana 
undoubtedly turn out when tho football team play In their particular city; 
they Hoem entlmalaatlc about the acjiool, judging from their write upa; but 
wlmt does It all amount to?
What are they really doing for the chool? An f ace It, their only excuHo 
for exlatence aa Carnegie Ciana I to booat Carnegie Tech. Their aoclal aeiivlllea might all be replaced by other organization.
Are they really booatlng OY that Carnegie Tech ia known In their town? 
Do they make any attempt to aee that Carnegie Tech la brought to tho at
tention of tho graduating clause In their high clioolu? Do thoy aee to It 
that account of Carnegie games and victories are printed In tho newapapera 
or their town? Do Lhoy OYY to It that the numerous awards won by our stu
dents are printed? Do they attempt to Interest high school athlete and 
scholars In courses here at chool?
Do they talk Carnegie-Tecli In their belai gathering? If they do not do 
all of these things, they are not booatlng. And thoo are only a few of the 
xnany waya of booatlng.
On the other hand, do they co to It that all their member are paid up 
an their alumni feos? Do Lhoy do their part in supporting school move
ments? Think of Lhe Kiltie fund before you anawer this. Do they take an 
intoroat In school affairs and express opinions as to tho wisdom of the school 
pollelH? I. have never een any. If they dont do those things they are ac
tually knocking. The people In school are too close to the march of events 
to bo able to form unprejudiced opinions of things that aro going on. They 
need tho broader views of those who are not Loo close and wfho have the 
interest of the school at heart.
Such, In my opinion, lit the duty of the Carnegie Ciana. I dont see any 
evidence that they are fullfllllng their purpose in life. What's the answer?
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
EXAMINATION SCHEDULES 
ARE OUT, STUDENTS
WILL BE TOO, NO DOUBT
(Continued From Page One.) 
wont even look up at you. And the 
outrageous questions they askhow 
should I know that Moses la a mem
ber of the faculty?
Industrie Senior"Oh hell. 
Maggie Murph"Ditto. 
UndorcIaBsmon"Ditto."
So that makes it unanimous.
SOPHOMORE BANQUET
DATE FEBRUARY. 15
(Continued From Pago One.) 
passed by Student Council to do away 
with secret under-class banquets.
The price of tickets will remain at 
f.2.50. The sale will begin soon.
The men on the committee are: 
IndustriesR. W. Boil, chairman; .1. 
II. Christoff. ScienceJ. C. Peter
son, F. O. Loveland. ArtsA. C.
Lnekey, IT. H. Albright.
Something Happened in1891
TEA GIVEN IN PRACTICE 
HOUSE BY GRADUATES
A tea was given last Saturday after
noon, January 19, In the Little House 
nn Woodlawn Ave. by the' Margaret 
Morrison Alumnae. Miss Margaret 
Hallar, 19, aoted as hostess, assisted 
l>y Mias Mary Ego, Mias Helen Was* 
sol, 1)7, Miss Anna Light, '23, Miss Ber
nice Kruger, '19, and Miss Ruth Keistiir, *16. Tea was poured by Mlaa Mary 
Breed, director of Margaret Morrison; 
Miss Mary Louiise Brown, Mrs, Vorjmorcken, and Mrs. Phllput.
A large number of Margaret Morxluon graduates attended the affair 
and onjoyod tho opportunity of renew
ing old friendships. The "Little 
Houso or Practice House ia in charge, 
IhlB year, of Mias Glendon and Mlaa 
Abbot of tho Household Economics De
partment.
Westinghouse Motor, No..8, tho Progenitor of the 
Present Universally-Adopted D.C. Railway Motor.
gested that electricity be used as the motive power.
The very first practical commercial dynamo, built by 
Gramme, in 1S62, made this suggestion a possibility.
It was natural that George Westinghouse, with his 
intense interest in transportation, should take up this 
problem. From 1889 to 1891, he, with his organiz
ation, worked continuously to perfect a commercially 
practicable railway motor, and the famous No. 8, 
daddy of all street railway motors, was the result.
As mentioned before, the principles embodied in the 
No. 8, thirty-two years ago, are still in use, and at least 
ten prominent features of this remarkable motor are 
to be found in present-day types. A number of these 
early motors are still in operationa tribute to sound 
engineering principles.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Wliat 
Engineering 
Owes To 
Sound 
Principles
PERHAPS no phase of elec
trical development is more 
fascinating than the events 
leading up to the practical use of elec
tricity as the motive power for street 
railway transportation.
It is a story of midnight oil, hard thinking, ex
treme perseverance. No better example of the value 
of sound principles to present day engineering could 
be cited than the Westinghouse No. 3 Motor, as in
troduced in 1891.
Its design was so fundamentally correct and the 
details were so soundly worked out that subsequent 
developments of railway .motors all followed the prin
ciples embodied in it. Now let's see what bearing this 
has had on modern transportation.
In 1700 the first permanently fixed rails made their 
appearance. In 1831, in New York, horse cars began 
operation. In 1834, after fruitless attempts to apply 
steam, compressed air, gas, etc., to those cars, a 
Vermont blacksmith, one Thomas Davenport, sug