BASKET BALL
PITT j
WEDNESDAY HOME
BASKET BALL
DANCE jj
SATURDAY UNION I
'
VOL. XXII NO. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1928
SCOTCHMEN AWAIT 
PANTHER INVASION 
TOMORROW NIGHT
Tartans Drop Penn State 
Game Over the Week-End 
With a 43 to 23 Final Score
EXPECT A RECORD 
CROWD FOR CONTEST
White, Hitchcock and Bond Carry 
Bulk of Tartan Work; 
Brown New Man.
All set for the big game tomorrow 
night? Carnegie students will have 
their first chance to see their badly 
underrated home team and the nation
ally famous Panther quint decide who 
gets the city championship. The 
Panthers have been moving at a ter
rible clip and the Tartans have six- de
feats behind them and perhaps it is 
expecting a little too much to hope 
for a Plaid victory, but it has been 
done before, and the possibility of 
history repeating itself is causing 
much worry in the enemies camp. 
It will be remembered that last year 
that Pitt was subdued after a string 
of defeats for the Tartans, and the 
year previous Notre Dame fell before 
the Skibo offensive after they had 
walked over the entire middle west. 
Who knows but what the Scotchmen 
may find'* themselves and spring the 
unexpected again; the Skibos have a 
reputation for such tricks.
Tomorrow night is the Plaid floormen8 first home game and the second 
of the three-game series with Pitt. 
The Panthers won the opening tilt of 
the contest when they romped away 
with a rather easy game in the sta
dium pavilion, although during the 
first half the Tartans played a close 
bitter game. It will undoubtedly be 
a spectacular game with the Plaid 
five fighting as they never have be
fore, and a record crowd is expected. 
If the Carnegie boys show up well in 
this gfirr 3 it looks almost like a sure 
victory Saturday against Penn State. 
Undoubtedly the Skibo tossers have 
not been given their due credit this 
season. Handicapped by absence and 
a limited number of players they have 
faced exceptionally strong teams on 
strange floors and been hard pressed 
to keep the score within reasonable 
boundaries. Starting tomorrow the 
quint will be on familiar territory with 
an improved lineup and a much better 
showing will be given.
The Penn 'State lions came out 20 
points to the good in last Saturdays 
engagement. It was a ragged, rather 
slow game and the Tartans held up 
their end admirably in the first half 
at one time having a one-point lead 
and only eight points to the bad at 
the mid point. Playing desperately 
the hardy Scotch rallied in the second 
half and pulled up within four points 
of the Lions. It was a brief and futile 
spurt for the Penn State quint seemed 
rejuvenated after their somewhat 
ragged first half, and run up a 20 
point margin and substituted an en
tire team to hold the winded Tartans 
for the remaining few minute's.
As for shooting all the men in the 
starting lineup broke into the scoring 
column. Hitchcock, Bond and White 
did the bulk of the work for the Tar
tans. Harpster played a good but 
not a spectacular game; it is mainly 
upon him that the Plaid are pinning 
their hopes for future victories. Brown 
was a surprise man in the lineup and 
considering his limited practice he 
(Continued on Page Seven)
DELCO REMY REPRE
SENTATIVE TO INTERVIEW
SENIORS THURSDAY
Seniors who are now looking for 
possible positions should keep in 
touch with the employment bureau 
and watch for announcements con
cerning interviews . with personnel 
representatives of the various com
panies.
This week two companies are send
ing representatives. Mr. Carl L. 
Storck of the Delco Remy Corporation 
will interview Electrical, Mechanical, 
Commercial and Works Management 
Seniors on Thursday, February 9, at 
9:30 a. m., room 69 Science. All Senors who are interested in interview
ing Mr. Storck should register at 
once in the Employment Bureau.
All Seniors who are interested in 
the Bailey Meter Company, Cleveland, 
Ohio, should get in touch with Mr. B. 
V. Kristof in the Employment Bureau 
as soon as possible.
Dr. Emil Ludwig Crosses the Ocean 
To Get a New Slant on Americana
Influence Of Printing 
Subject Of Lecture To 
Be Given By A. Colt
Other Lectures on Printing 
to be Delivered in Feb.  
March and April
| Americana is now under the close j 
| circumspection of Dr. Emil Ludwig. ' 
| Since tllfe German literary lion has ap-' 
j parently exhausted his own domain! 
for material, he has at last consented I 
I to come to America in order to get a j 
new slant 011 the denizens of our 1 
j Yankee Utopia.
j Germany feels that this Yankee1 
j Utopia lias many t hings to teach her j 
that will be valuable to her progress. 
i In order that she may guide her fu
ture history in an equable course, she 
j is vitally interested in our methods 
of production and distribution; she 
is also eager to know what sort of 
people invented our forms of factory 
1 management; and furthermore, just 
j how this machine age has affected our 
: personality.
| I am looking for people with prac: tical experience, said the literary 
| lion in an interview, merchants, en- i 
j srineers, and above all scientists. This ' 
j is unquestionably the age of science, 
so that we must look for future lead
ers of world history in the realms of 
science.
I am now engaged in writing the
Second Semester Chapel 
To Begin Next Tuesday
Chapel dates for the second semes
ter have been changed from 12:50 on 
Thursdays to 11:30 011 Tuesdays.
This change will have the Chapel ex
ercises alternate with the divisional 
and general assemblies. No change 
will be made in the length or the type 
of the exercises.
The chapel dates for the second 
semester are: February 14, February
28, March 13, and March 27. The 
speakers who have been secured are: 
Dr. Samuel H. Goldenson, of the 
Rodef Shalom Congragation, 011 Feb
ruary 14. Bishop Mann of the- Episco
pal Church on February 28. Dr. A. 
R. Robinson of the Sixth United Pres
byterian Church on March 13, and 
William L. McEwan of the Third Pres
byterian Church on March 27.
Chapel attendance during the pres
ent semester should increase over 
that of last semester. The change, in 
date makes it convenient for all stu
dents to attend, because there are no 
classes scheduled in any of the col
leges at 11:30 Tuesdays. The next 
chapel service will be one week from 
today in the Arts Little Theater.
W. Arthur Cole, honorary president 
of the American Institute of Graphic 
Arts, will deliver a public lecture on 
"The Influence of Fine Printing next 
Thursday afternoon at the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. The lecture 
is scheduled for four oclock in the 
Union, and is free to the general pub
lic.
Cole is vice president and produc
tion manager of the Corman Company, 
Inc., an advertising agency in New 
York City. After serving for several 
years as a reporter and editor of 
.newspapers, he entered the printing 
business in Boston. He founded the 
Graphic Arts and Crafts Bureau, an 
organization of designers, writers and 
craftsmen who owned and operated 
the Craftsmen Press, and later he be
came associated with the Lanston 
Monotype, Company, William F. Fell 
Company in Philadelphia, and Barton, 
Durstine and Osborn, advertising, 
agents, in New York City. He oper
ates a private press from his farm 
home at Homewood, West Brattleboro, Vermont.
Continuing the 1927-28 series of lec
tures on printing and related subjects 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
arranged by the U. T. A. Department 
of Education for the students and fac
ulty of the printing department, E. G. 
J. Gratz of Pittsburg will give a talk 
on Electrotyping 011 February 13. 
Following this lecture will he one 011 
February 27 by George R. Keller of 
Detroit, who is to discuss The Print
ers Financial Problem. A. L. Lewis 
of Toronto will deliver a lecture, en
titled "The Responsibility of the Mas
ter Printer 011 March 16. On March 
26 J. Horace McFarland, Harrisburg, 
Vili give his answer to the question, 
"What Is a Printer? The CollegeTrained Man in the Printing Industry 
will be the subject of a lecture by E. 
Lawrence Fell, Philadelphia, 011 April 
23.
Other lectures in the series, the 
dates of which will be announced 
soon, include: Selling Printing, by 
Frank J. Smich; The History or 
Printing, by John Clyde Oswald: 
The Engineering Phase of Printing, 
by James Rudisill; An Avenue to 
Service, by John C. Hill; Bookbind
ing, by E. W. Palmer; Lithograph
ing, by L. S. Hawkins, and PhotoEngraving, by V. W- Hurst.
A. Anable, an engineer of the Dorr 
Company, will talk to the Chemical 
Seniors on Monday, February 20, at 
11:30 a. m., on "Continuous Counter(Continued on Page Four.)
biography of a noteworthy American, 
he continued, "but my publishers have 
stipulated that I must not divulge tho 
name of the biographee. There has 
recently been a great deal of specula
tion as to who Dr. Ludwig considers a 
noteworthy American. Perhaps it 
will be about, the modern Maecenas, 
Otto H. Kahn, who was his host in 
New York; or perhaps it will be about 
I-I&nry Ford whom lie; greatly admires. 
Even Charlie Chaplin has been sug
gested.
I saw Charlie Chaplin in his latest 
picture when I was in New York, and 
I firmly believe that he is the greatest 
motion picture actor that the world 
has even seensuch was the affrmation of this German literary lion.' Con
cerning the motion picture he said 
that he hoped that it would never take 
the place of the spoken drama, but 
yet'there was no sign that it had 
reached the climax of its progress.
Dr. Ludwig believes that Haupt
mann is the outstanding German 
writ ir of the day. Wasserman is the 
best living novelist, and he prefer9 
(Continued on Page Five.)
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
MUSIC HALL TODAY, 
PROMPTNESS URGED
Major Taylor to Present Cup 
to Rifle Team as Reward for 
Capturing Title Last Season
LEAVES FOR EUROPE TUESDAY
Pres. Baker To Sail For 
Europe, Friday, Feb. 
10 ;Leaves From N. Y.
SECOND SEMESTER SHOWS'GA'ABOL OF GUILDS TO BE 
NORMAL REGISTRATION GIVEN MARCH 2 IN UNION 
FIGURES IN COMPARISON! BY INDUSTRIES MEN
Invitation to Lecture Abroad 
Extended in Connection 
With Coal Confab
Usual Mid-year Decrease Takes j C^imittees at Work On Plans;
Toll of 85 in Day-student 
Census of Campus.
Dance Is Open To All; 
Tickets To Be $2.
The system of student registration 
as practiced here permits of up-todate data being secured at any mo
ment, for the purpose of publication 
or similar application. It is there
fore possible to give the registration 
figures up to and including the sec
ond of February. 1928. In scanning 
this new census, the same normal 
trend appearsthere has been 110 ap
preciable change or alteration in the 
total active body engaged in school 
life.
In the Tartan for September 20, 
issued immediately following the re
sumption of school, figures for the new 
term were made public. Todays fig-' 
ures compare favorably with this 
quota, showing a normality in com
parison with figures of former years, 
and seemingly indicating that the in
creased tuition has had 110 ill effects.
I11 the College of Engineering a 
drop from 530 to 503 is shown in the 
total enrollment. Likewise in Indus
tries the sum decreased from 341 to 
321 for the second semester and in 
the College of Fine Arts from 596 to 
585. M. M. C. C. now contains 440, 
as against 477 for the first semester.
The freshman Class, the one usually 
j finding the axe keener for them than 
for others, lost 27, but athe advent of 
21 new plebes, partially covering this 
loss, brings their total back to 625 
for the term.
Altogether, 61 new faces; some new 
some old, some greensome har
dened, are seen now on the Campus. 
The Engineering Upper-classmen re
ceived 12, Industries 9, Arts 13, M. M.
C. C. 6/ and new Freshmen 21. The 
total to date then is 2,167, ap against 
2,252 for the first semester. Pre
sumably, in the eyes of some, a de
crease means a loss and a loss a bad 
sign. However, when the various 
sources of leakage are discovered, 
such as Graduation, Failure, Parttime, change in school or course and 
general drops, the total of 61 new 
students seems insignificant indeed. 
This has always been the case, and 
will always continue to be so at Car
negie but there is a bona-fide reason 
for its existence that is readily rec
ognized.
These figures are by no means per(Continued on Page Four.)
Preparations are now under way 
fo.r the annual Industries frolic popu
larly, known as the "Gambol of the 
Guilds. The dance this year will 
be i'iven in tho Union on the evening 
of larch 2.
'I ^e followlnft committee has boon 
clip Jen to arrange for the frolic: M. 
I>. Burnside, chairman; George 
 Davis, .1. II; Seibert, Russ Broscious, 
anc .G/ V. Derr. This is a very ropnesun itlyo group of students as Burn* 
j sid' 
be:
Carnegie to Have College 
Board Entrance Exams
Beginning with June, 1928, the 
Carnegie Institue of Technology will 
discontinue its own system of en
trance examinations that it lias been 
conducting for twenty years, Regis
trar Alan Bright has announced. In 
any case in the future in which it be
comes necessary to prescribe en
trance examinations the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology will require the 
applicant to take the examinations of 
the College Entrance Examination 
Board.. These examinations are held 
throughout the United States and in 
many foreign countries the third 
week in June of each year.
The Institute, the announcement 
further points out, will also give ex
aminations prepared by the College 
Entrance Examination Board at the 
Institute during the third week in 
I September,
djjj Davis, and Broscious are nieniaifj m( ' Alpha Tau, Industries I-Ion. while Seibert and Derr fire 
treasurer and secretary respectively, 
of tho Junior class in Industries.
The committee has just begun to 
preparo for the dance which will bo 
held as customary in tho Union. The 
date will be March 2. George Davis 
is to "have charge of publicity; 
"Spook Seibert will act. as treasurer 
of the committee; Broscious will bo 
responsible for decorations, pro
grams, otc.; Derr, will make arrange
ment for the ijofresiimenls, while 
j Burnside will secure a popular or
chestra for the annual Gambol.
TI10 price, of the tickets will he $2, 
although tho dance is glvon by the 
future captains of industry it is open 
to students in'all other schools. Every
body is cordially invited to this In
dustry frolic.
Last year the dance was very suc
cessful. A large forge in one end 
of the Union formed the nucleus of 
the decorations which also included 
many pictures appropriate to an In
dustry dance.
THETA TAU ELECTS NEW 
OFFICERS AT MEETING
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, president of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, will 
sail for Europe on the "Berongnria 
Friday night, February 10, to deliver 
a series of lectures in Paris and to 
spend soverai weeks in organizing 
plans for^ the second International 
Conference on Bituminous Coal.
The invitation to lecture in Paris 
came through the Carnegio Endow
ment for International Peace. Dr. 
Baker will deliver his lectures in 
French,' between tho 15th and 22nd of 
1 March. The subjects are: "The
American Mind, "America, tho Land 
of Realism, "Mechanization and 
Standardization and "American Pnbj lie Opinion. It. might also be of In
terest to note that Dr. Bakor will pre
side at various conferences, compris
ing a tour of Brussels, London, Berlin, 
irague, Vienna and possibly Rome, 
in connection with (lie Second In
ternational Conference on, Bituminous 
Coal which will he hold heito under the 
auspices of the Carnogie Institute of 
Technology during the week of No
vember 19, 1928.
President Baker plans to spend 
most of his t.imo In visiting scientists 
and government agencies of Franco, 
England, Germany and Austria. As 
a result, of a trip to Europe last sum
mer, Dr. Bakor expects that the num
ber of foreign delegates for this years 
conference will bo considerably in ex
cess of that at the 192 Conference, 
whore thirteen forolgn countries were 
.represented. He plans to bo In Eu
rope about six weeks, and for the 
benefit of those who might wish to 
communicate with tho President, the 
following address is given: 1 Rue des 
Italiens, Paris, care of Guaranty Trust 
Company.
The official duties of the President 
have been taken over by Director 
Mott, Dean of the College of Engineer
ing, who will act in this capacity dur
ing the absence of Dr. Baker.
The Tartan accepts this opportunity 
of wishing Dr.'Baker Bon Voyage 
and a happy successful tour.
0! Imogene to be Given 
By Drama Dept. Feb. 11-12
The play to be given this week by 
the Drama Department is entitled "O! 
imogene. Although the author, Har
ry James Smith, is not well known, it 
is expected that his play will be well 
received by the students. The per
formance takes the form of a "farce 
comedy. The play will be given from 
February 11 to 21 inclusive.
It was in the late eighties that elo
cution reached its height and every 
hamlet boasted of its talented elocu 
tionist. Such is the scene of O! 
Imogene. The plot is one that de
velops in unexpected complexities as 
the scenes pass, reaching a delightful 
climax all too soon.
Miss Anna Dice, who is a visiting 
director, has charge of the production 
of O! Imogene. She is a graduate 
of the Art School and is perhaps well 
known to many students who remem
ber former plays that have been di
rected by her.
Theta Tau, national engineering 
professional fraternity, held its an
nual election of officers at a meeting 
on last Thursday evening,. February 
2. The men elected are: Regent,
Edwin B. Ross; Vice-Regent, William 
S. Diggs; Scribe, Stewart C. Ralston; 
Treasurer, Clarence W. Deible; 
Marshal, Henry J. Bell; Inner Guard, 
William Murdock; Outer Guard, 
James G. Kuester.
All of the men elected are promiment in activities and alii are well 
known on the campus. Ross is a 
i member of the Phi Kappa fraternity, 
and is advertising manager of the 
j Puppet. Diggs is a member of the 
\ Sigma Nu fraternity and is' president 
j of the Junior class in Science. Ralston 
I is a member of the Sigma Nu frai ternity and is a Junior Editor of the 
Tartan. Deible is a member of the 
I Delta Upsilon fraternity.
| Murdock is a member of the Phi 
I Kappa Psi fraternity and a member 
I of the Druids, a sophomore honorary 
j society. Bell is a Pi Kappa Alpha 
j and. was varsity cheer leader last 
year. Kuester is a member of the 
j Alpha Tau Omega fraternity and a 
member of Scabbard and Blade, 
j After the election of officers, comlnlttee reports were made and plans 
were discussed for the next semester.
I The next meeting will be hold Thurs: day afternoon at 4:30 p. m.
| Tiie requirements for membership 
I to Theta Tau are decidedly rigid. To 
j become a pledge a man must be over 
1.8 years of age and must be of white 
I birth. No members of sects, orders,
I (Countinued on Page Four.)
Printing Department Aids 
In Publishing Magazine
The January number of Printing 
Education, the only comprehensive 
periodical of its kind 11 America, lias 
recently come from the presses of 
Carnegie Department of Printing. 
This sixteen-page magazine is being 
published five times a year conjointly 
by the Department of Education of 
the United Typothetae of America 
and our Printing Department. Twentyeight hundred copies are printed and 
distributed to teachers of printing and 
others interested in printing educa
tion. Faculty and students co-operate 
in the production of each number./The 
cover page of the January issue is 
illustrated with a likeness of Ben
jamin Franklin for which I-I. E. 
Sterling, instructor in Sketching, de(Continued on Page Three)
INDUSTRIAL QUARTET 
TO ADD MUSICAL COLOR
General Assembly To Be Held 
First Tuesday of Month 
Throughout Term.
At General Assembly today, in -Car
negie Music Hall, the Red Arrow 
Quartet, well-known group of enter
tainers of the Pennsylvania Railroaci, 
is to be featured on the musical pro
gram. There will also be a presenta
tion of ttye National Rifle Association 
cup for the winning team of the 1927 
League. Due to a change in the sched
ule for assemblies, todays .program is 
held one week early. For tho re
mainder of the term assemblies will 
be held on the first Tuesday of tho 
month instead or the second Tuesday.
Major James G. Taylor, of the Mili
tary Department, will present the sil
ver loving cup to the Varsity Rifle 
team of last year in the name of the 
Natiouail Rifle Association. The cup, 
which will be tho permanent properly 
of. the Carnogie team stands eighteen 
inches high, and bears the inscription 
"National Rifle Association, 1927 
League C, Carnogie Tech." Last 
years rifle team had a uniqne record, 
winning every match in which they 
fired.
The Rod Arrow Quartet needs no 
introduction 011 the campus, for their 
appearances at past assemblies nro 
well remembered by the student. 
Their program will consist of thirty 
minutes of good music, including pop
ular, (classical, and novolty number.
The personnel oE tho quurtot In
cludes Joseph Donaghy, first tenor; 
R. M. Gibb, basso; I. D. Schaffer, aooond tenor; Carl McVlokor, baritone, 
and Alonzo Bauman, accompanist, J< 
is Interesting to note tho position off 
tho live entertainers while riot before 
tho footlights. Donaghy is a car dis
tributor localod at Oil City, Pa.; Gibb 
is a maintainor on tho tologmph rid 
signal department of the Pittsburgh 
Division; Schaffer is a freight bralcoman running botwonn Pittsburgh nntl 
Canton, Ohio; MeVleker is an assist
ant signal-man of the cnKinorlnK 
corps of tho Panhandle Division; and 
Bauman is a shopman located in Can
ton, Ohio.
Those four bona-fide longtime em
ployees of the Pennsylvania Railroad, 
t.ogothor with their accompanist con
stitute what is accredited with being 
tho host industrial singling unit in tho 
country. Tho quartet has an obscuro 
beginning. Off in some corner In tho. 
shops, tho four slngerS would gaf.V\5i^ 
at odd times and rehearse, ofteim ho 
their blue denims, as shown in thoaccompanying cut, for the sheer joy 
of singing, until their talent at.traxrtier&' 
tiie attention of the management of 
the Railroad. Since that time the 
quartet has continued to improve and 
increase in popularity, the Pennsyl
vania Railroad allowing the men time 
off to accept engagements. The quar
tet has made more than five hundred 
appearances since its organization.
A ttendance at Assemblies so far this 
year has been fairly good, but not what 
(Continued on Page Three)
SERIES OF BASKETBALL 
DANCES REVIVE CUSTOM
NEWMAN CLUB WILL HOLD
VALENTINE DANCE FRIDAY
The Newman Club of Pittsburgh 
will hold a novelty Valentino Frolic 
next Friday evening at the Knights of 
Columbus ballroom at Fifth and Bellefield avenues. Joseph Baur, chair
man, Pitt, will bo assisted by Dorothy 
Wertz, Marie E. Kelly, Pitt; Lucille 
Ross, AI Miller; Tech, Ruth ODon
nell, P. C. W., and Alice Wassel, 
Teachers' Training 'School. The com
mittee is planning to make this event 
the largest thus far on the Clubs so
cial calendar.
The old tradition of holding basket
ball dances will hold its rejuvenation 
debut this Saturday after the Penn 
State-Carnegie game. This dance is the 
first of a series of basketball dances 
to be held during this basketball sea
son, and brings about the olden timo 
custom of celebrating after basketball 
games. The last dance of this nature 
was held three years ago. The1 Col
lege Club orchestra, one of the topnotchers on the campus, will provide 
the necessary musical atmosphere for 
this great revival.
This series of dances of which Sat
urdays dance is the first, is being 
sponsored by the Carnogie Athletic 
Association, the proceeds of which 
will be used for scholarships. The 
members of the varsity, and freshmen 
basketball squads will be honorary 
guosts at each basketball dance.
Tills dance will be hold In the Union 
Immediately after the State-Carnegie 
game and will give the athletic en
thusiasts an opportunity for a getlogolher as well afj honoring the Car
negie athletes.
The assessment .for the dance 'V 
O1.25 per couple.. The revival will last 
from nine to twelve this Saturday 
after the game.
/
/

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1928
PROGRAM SELECTED 
FOR CARNEGIE TECH 
RADIO NIGHT FEB. 14
Campus Organizations are to 
Broadcast Program 
Over KDKA
Ater several sessions of the improssarlos concerned with Carnegie Tech 
Radio Night on Tuesday, February 14, 
a program has finally been accepted, 
and believe LV. it has all the ear 
marks, in the vernacular of the Btreet 
and Chicago, pC being a "knockout."
Before w'e start to tell you abou the 
program it might be woll to dash 
..quickly over the,high spots incidental 
to the event. In brief, here it 'VX 
On Tuesday night, February 14, the 
students of Carnegie will broadcast an 
hour's program of entertainment di
root from the stage of Carnegie Music 
I-Iail. Nobody knows what Jhe idea 
is outside of the fact that it gives 
Dear Old Tech a chance to get on the 
air and it also gives some of the 
alumni clans an opportunity to gather 
and hear familiar voices from Pitts
burgh. The program will be broad
cast through station KDKA of the 
Westinghouse Electric and Manufac
turing Company on a wave length of 
316 standard or G3 short. The time 
is 10 p. m. Eastern Standard.
Already, and in response to sugges
tions from Clarence Overend, some of 
the clans have made plans to hold 
radio parties for the purpose of re
ceiving the broadcast. To all such 
gatherings, Buddy hopes to send a 
word or two of greeting when he is 
given the air as early number of the 
program. And, by the way, Buddys 
speech will be the only one of the 
evening outside of what Professor 
Chester Wallace has to say in connec
tion with his duties as our official and 
personal announcer.
A feature of tlie broadcast is that 
the hall will be opened at 9:30 to any 
Carnegie students who want to forego 
their sleep and to see a stage full 
of entertainers in action. It is likely 
that a large number of night students 
will stop, in.,on their way home from 
classes. All this is a round-about way 
of suggesting that if you hear ap
plause during the entertainment you 
will know that it is genuine.
With the assistance of Professors 
.T. Vick O'Brien, Iden Payne, Chester 
Wallace and of Victor Saudelc, Harvey 
Gaul and others interested in the va
rious musical organizations, Professor 
Robert Loighou, chairman of the radio 
committee, has put together a varied 
and yet well-balanced program. It 
will havo about everything that Is 
good, ranging from college yells to 
sinking by the Bach Choir. In botween will bo music by the Kiltie 
Band, the Symphony Orchostrn, the 
Glee Club, individuals and sketches by 
the Department of Drama.
To, lot the world know that Car
negie Toch is very much Scotch and is 
proud of It, John Blackball, one of 
the faculty, will be on hand to blow 
his bag pipes at appropriate points in 
the program. And with such familiar 
numbers as, Dear . Old Toch, On 
Carnegie and some others coming by 
el her wavos, alumni "radio parti' 
will Ixi given opportunity to join In 
the choruses occasionally.
Dont forgot the date: February 14 
at 10 i). m. Tune i:i on KDKA, and 
when you hoar the bag pipes youll 
know Carnoglo Toch is on the air. 
Hero Is the program, duly expurgated, 
revised, polished and adopted, after 
much deliberating:
Part I.
Bagpipes.
1. Song"Dear Old Tech..................
.....................Glee Club and Band
College Yell.
March"Carnegie Tech ___
...................................Wilbur Scott
Kiltie Band.
College Yell.
2. Greetings-to Alumni... Mr. Ovorend 
(College Yell.)
3. Overture"Euryanthe..von WebeV
Symphony Orchestra,
Director OBrien
4. Tenor SoloNocturne ... Curran
Malcolm Hilty 
((College Yell.)
U. Chorale and Chorus from Jesu,
Priceless Treasure.............Bach
Bach Choir.
G. Comedy SketchThe Remnant
...................Lucy Kennedy Brown
Josephine Copas, Frank Sullivan, 
Ruth Aston.
Part II.
College Yell.
1. Bagpipes.
March-On the Mall... .Goldman 
Kiltie Band.
2. "Thou Art Repose.............Schubert
Three Russian Tono Pictures..
....................................... Rubinstein
Mens Glee Club.
*1. Violin Solo"Zigonnorwoison...
......................................... Sarasate
Raymond Bondi and Orchestra.
4. Scene from MacbethDuncan's
Murder ................... Shakespeare
Irene Todrow and 
, Donald Bellows Wilson 
(or Walter Browns Rodgers)
C. March"Entrance of the Bojars ...........'................. Halvorsen
Symphony Orchestra 
Director OBrien.
College Yells.
G. Bagpipes.
Alma Mater.
There has been a great deal of in
vestigation and talk about building 
an air port on Schenley Oval, which 
many of our graduates may remember. 
The surveying and planning for this 
is being done by the ilrm of Aires, 
Stone and Pettay. Two of the mem
bers of tills ilrm are Carnegie Tech 
men, Benjamin I-I. Aires and George 
T. Pettay. The latter made the map 
which was recently published in the 
Pittsburgh papers. Although the air 
port is just being . considered, these 
men have been busy surveying and 
planning the proposed site.
We find a Carnegie graduate in Jo
seph Hornes department store, one of 
the largest in Pittsburgh, who helps 
people to make out budgets for the 
home. 'Iliis is Mrs. M. M. Reden
baugh, whom some graduates may re
member as Ida Greene in school. She 
graduated from the Home Arts and 
Crafts department in 1914.'
Managing the budgeting and con
sulting service bureau of a large de
partment store has proven an inter
esting position for Mrs. Redenbaugh, | 
and she is kept quite busy. Not only 
women come to her for advice but 
even men who want such advice as 
whether they can marry on $125 a 
month or not.'
Mrs. Redenbaugh reports that not 
only women whose incomes are small, 
but those who receive larger allow
ances come to her for advice
Her advice to all of them is bud
geting. Various charts and diagrams 
which she lias prepared help her to 
illustrate her points. Which all goes 
to show that Carnegie Tech graduates 
not only learn how to spend money 
properly, but also can teach others 
how to do so.
Miss Florence Schell, who attended 
Arts School from 1916 to 918, has be
come another pioneer in business for 
women. After her training at Car
negie she went to Chicago as a de
signer of lighted signs.
Miss Schell has changed her posi
tion however, and now makes and 
trims, as well as designs, beautiful 
wrought iron lamps, gates,, novelties 
and what not.
Intercollegiate Glee Club Tickets
Mr. James A. Bortz,
1403 Oliver Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Enclosed please find ?............for which send me.................tickets
for the Pennsylvania State Intercollegiate Glee Club Contest:Carnegie Hall, February^ 24, 1928.
) Boxes (seating 10) ..................$25.00
) Orchestra & first 3 rows Bal. 2.00
) BahCnce of Balcony.................. 1.50
) Second Balconyfirst 4 rows 1.00 
) Second Balcony^Balance ... .50
Name... 
Address.
CARNEGIE TECH SECTION
ALUMNAE BRIDGE AT 
HOTEL SCHENLEY AT 
2:30 THIS SATURDAY
Annual Bridge Party Held to 
Replenish Scholarship 
Treasury
CLAN NEWS ]
CLEVELAND
0-Kay To Be Given For 
Scholarship Benefit
Alumni Asked to Support 
This Play by Scholarship 
Organization
Play Settings Designed By 
Carnegie Tech Graduate
Frank F. Weidenborner, who attend 
ed both Carnegie and the University 
of Michigan, was appointed assist
ant superintendent of agencies of the 
Guardian Life Insurance Company. He 
first become connected with this com
pany in 1924 when lie was made 
agency assistant at tlie home office.
A rectint article in the1 Press told 
about the work of Paul L. Irwin. Ir
win Is a mechanical engineer from the 
class of 1921, receiving his M. E. de
gree in 192G.
Whoreas the work of most engi
neers is constructive, Irwins work is 
entirely destructive. This 1 may hot 
sound so strange when we explain 
that ho works In tlio testing labora
tory of the Westinghouse Electric and 
Mamifucturing Company.
Not only does lie test the ninny 
kinds of material which go into the 
plant, but ho has also designed the 
machines for testing and the record
ing apparatus. Ho uses all types of 
testing machines, compression, ten1
The women of Carnegie under the 
Women's Scholarship Organization 
have undertaken to raise scholarship 
money for all undergraduate scholar
ships by means of having one benefit 
in which the - co-operation of all or
ganizations in the school is solicited.
Oh! Kay, lias been selected by 
the organization, to be given for the 
scholarship benefit at the Alvin The
ater, Monday, ^February 20. The play 
is a musical comedy starring the ini
mitable Julia Sanderson and If rank 
Crummit whcise versatility as actors 
and comedians is known throughout 
the land. Assisting Miss Sanderson 
and Mr. Crumit are the following mu
sical comedy favorites: John E.
Young, Beatrice Swanson, Fred Har
per, Helen Arden and an ensemble of 
100 with an augmented orchestra. 
The music is by George Gershwin and 
the lyrics by Ira Gershwin. The book 
was written by Guy Balton and P. G. 
Wodeliouse, with Aarons and Freedley, in association with. Messrs. Shubert making the production.
"Oh! Kay, is an example of a mu: 
sical comedy that has a general ap
peal. It is not prudish, but is not of
fensive, either. The following are 
some of tlie song hits: "Clap Your
Hands, "Someone To Watch Over 
Men and "Maybe.
The success of this project is laid 
upon the shoulders of the undergraduate students but it must also be 
backed by the alumni. Although many 
of the alumni are not able to rejider 
personal assistance on committees, 
they can be of great assistance in'p'urchasing tickets when the ticket sale 
is launched. Everyone desiring tick
ets should do his best to attend to his 
exchangeable ticket Immediately, as 
explained in the letters sent out.
The Carnegie co-eds are now hard 
at work seeking advertisements for 
the program of "Oh! Kay, the musi
cal comedy to bo given Monday, Feb
ruary 20, at the Alvin Theater for the 
purpose of raising scholarship money. 
The Womens Organization has formed 
under the chairmanship of Margaret 
Wagoly, president of tlio S'ophomore 
Class of Margaret Morrison, an ex
tensive campaign. Any girl who 
would be Interested in soliciting ads 
for the program is urged to get in
From various New York newspapers 
we note that a recent production of 
the "Merchant of Venice met with a 
great deal of success, and this was 
due in no little measure to the efforts 
of Woodman Thompson, a Carnegie 
Tech graduate, who designed the set
tings.
Tlie Evening World says "And in all 
the settings and costumes was reflect
ed the stage-adorning genius of Wood
man Thompson. The Evening Tele
gram pays its compliments as follows: 
"With all due respect to the actors 
whq partake of the j-oys -and suffer
ings of this old trial horse, the loudest 
huzzas must be let off for Mr* Thomp
son, tlie designer responsible for the 
gorgeous stage picture of the evening 
with three and a tiger for the batallion of stage hands, which makes nine 
changes with absolutely delerious 
speed.
Thompson has one of those per
manent setshandsome and worka
blewith three openings to be filled 
with tapestries and curtains for the 
making of changes. It is a beautiful, 
soul stirring production; . yet at no 
time does it dwarf or smother the ac
torsone of the curses of any stag
ing which sets out to be bigger or bet
ter in tlie spectacular line. The waits 
are momentary. The costumes, too, 
are lovely in the extrememarvelous 
use is made of various shades of 
'brown.
These quotations are testimony 
enough to the ability of Mr. Thomp
son. It is interesting to note that 
Hardie Albright also took a part in 
this production.
Alumnus For February Has 
Many Interesting Topics
slon, fatigue and many others. Such . . . , . -mi*,,. . , , i touch with Margaret Wagely at Elmmntoriate LI mlArtu lor airplane pro- TT..,, ......... ..................................
pollers are some of tlio moro recent
materials ho has had to test.
Irwin works in. conjunction with the 
research laboratories, where the vari
ous materials are designed. After he 
makes the tests he makes a report 
back to the research engineers, who 
revise their design accordingly.
Irwin is by the way, the youngest 
engineer in the laboratory.
J. H. Kindelberger, a Carnegie 
alumnus, gave a lecture on January 13 
at the University of Southern Cali
fornia on Types of Aircraft and 
Types of Motors. The talk Avas given 
 before a class being organized in 
commercial aviation. Mr. Kindelberger was well qualified to talk on 
his subject, having served as a mem
ber of the United States Air Service 
in 1917 and 1918.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
S. T. Howes, an Engineering grad
uate, has charge of tlie pasteurizing 
department of a new creamery plant 
at Sand Springs, Oklahoma. Besides 
his technical training at Carnegie, 
Mr. Howes has had several years' 
practical experience with plants in 
other communities.
The more we go to college, the 
more we go to college.
Texas Ranger.
Hall or call Schenley ' 9199 in order 
to get the credentials necessary to 
solicit ads. A profitable commission 
will be offered for all ads.
Miriam Cupps, chairman of the cor
respondence committee lias feent 3,000 
letters to the Carnegie Club within a 
30-mile radius of Pittsburgh and to 
faculty. Special letters have been 
sent to prospective patrons.
Jean Springer, Senior Painting and 
Decorating student, lias charge of tlie 
ticket sale which will probably be 
launched this week. An exchangeable 
student ticket will be sold in order to 
insure everyone an equal chance of 
securing good seats.
"Oh! Kay, lias been listed as one 
of the best and most amusing musi
cal comedies of the season having a 
reputation of being presented to the 
largest possible audience. All local 
tlieater-goers are looking forward to 
this show which is headed by the ini
mitable Julia Sanderson and Frank 
Crumit. Opportunities accorded to 
them in Oh! Kay for fun dispens
ing and hilarity are as yet to be en
joyed by Pittsburghs theater-going 
populace.
The music of the play is by George 
Gershwin, the lyrics by Ira Gershwin, 
and the book by Guy Bolton and P. G. 
Wodehouse.
ADVERTIS AND GET RESULTS
The new issue of the Alumnus is 
out,and we like it so well, we thought 
we would tell you something about it.
The cover contains a pretty winter 
campus scene of the Sylvan theater 
with the new gym in the background. 
Other pictures in the issue are a pic
ture of the first Wurts Christmas din
ner, a portrait of David Gustafson, 
new head of the printing department, 
and a. picture of the basket ball team.
Especially do we wish to recom
mend to your perusal the articles on 
campus activities, including welfare 
work, the use of the new gym in phy
sical training work, a discussion of 
the Printing Department by the new 
head, and a discussion of Margaret 
Morrison as technical college.
The Plays the Tiling by Ben Iden 
Payne, a discussion and explanation of 
the new Public Utilities course, and a 
general discussion of athletics, are 
topics of interest to various alumni. 
Several other topics and divisions 
help to make up a very interesting 
issue.
Have you gotten your copy yet? 
Well, prompt payment of your dues 
will insure its delivery this week. If 
you have been a paid up member, the 
dues is three dollars, but if you are 
delinquent it will be four dollars, re
gardless of the number of yea*s you 
are delinquent. ' \
It is hoped that every old grad in 
the Pittsburgh district is planning to 
attend the bridge and 500 to be held 
Saturday at the Hotel Schenley at 
2:30 p. m. This party not only offers 
a wonderful chance to renew old 
friendships but, more important, aid 
an extremely meritorious causethe 
Scholarship Fund.
The alumnae bridge is no new thing. 
Since 1919 Margaret Morrison alum
nae has held this party each year, 
the first three taking place in the' 
Recreation Room of the school. In 
1922, because of increased attendance, 
it was held at the Fort Pitt with 57 
tables in play. i.n 1923, Ivaufmanns 
dining room was the scene of the *affair and 66 tables were used. In 1924 
the party was given at McCreerys 
with 78 tables. In 1925 it was again 
held at Kaufmanns with 68 tables and 
in 1926 at the Congress of Womens 
Clubs with 80 tables in play. Last 
year a very successful party was held 
at the Schenley with 103 tables.
At the first benefit a sum of $75.90 
was cleared, the tuition for Margaret 
Morrison being then just $75 a year. 
Each year there has been a steady in
crease in receipts, the banner year 
$634.65 being cleared.
The price of tuition still soars, and 
in all probability will go higher in 
two years. 1928 must be a recordbreaking year to meet the increased 
expense.  Every cent counts. Individ
ual ticket contributions are very ac
ceptable. We hope that the alumnae 
out of Pittsburgh will remember this 
and keep in mind that, since the entire 
responsibility of the Scholarship 
Fund rests with the local branch it is 
their duty to help us here.
The Clans are also urged to do their 
part. Many of them have responded 
nobly in years gone by. The Cleve
land Clan each year sends a girl to 
Tech on scholarship. New York, Har
risburg and Chicago have been very 
active and it is interesting to know 
that last year the Golden Gate Clan 
of California held a bridge party and 
sent the proceeds. The Boston Clan 
also responded.
Mrs. Mary McKee Wilson will act 
as general chairman for the 1928 party 
with Miss Eleanor Reismeyer as as
sistant chairman. In charge of the 
various committees are Mrs. Doreathea Frederick Floyd, prizes; Miss Jo
sephine Gibson, cards and tallies; 
Miss Nora Henderson, candy; Miss 
Maude Fire, publicity; Mrs. Lydia 
Bates Glock, patronesses, and Mrs. 
Helen Baglin Galleher, plans. There 
will be a prize for each table with a 
door prize as a special feature.
A partial list of patronesses in
cludes: Mrs. Francis J. Torrance,
Mrs. William Frew, Mrs. William 
Watson Smith, Mrs. Ralph Harbison, 
Mrs. George W. McCandless, Mrs. 
Charles D. Armstrong, Mrs. John L. 
Porter, Mrs. Roy Arthur Hunt and 
Mrs. John Beatty.
The members of the Cleveland Clan 
enjoyed their first mixed social gath
ering of the year on the evening of 
February 1. The program consisted 
of a combined dinner dance and thea
ter party. The strains of Emerson 
Gill's orchestra made even the oldest 
grads get on the floor and recall their 
terpsichorean accomplishments. An 
excellent meal prepared by the Bam
boo Garden chefs furnished an inter
esting pastime between the dances.
Immediately following the dinner, 
the Little Theater became our objec
tive, and the space reserved for the 
clan soon filled to capacity.
The principal characters in the per
formance were graduates from the 
Carnegie Drama Department, includ
ing K. Elmer Lowe, Carl Reid, Cather
ine Wick Kelley and Ellen Lowe. 
They presented The School for Scan
dal in a very interesting and finished 
manner.
Approximately forty couples were 
present and a great part of the even
ings success was due to the efforts 
of Walter Damon, '25; Carl Reid, '22, 
and Frank Draz.
ERIE
New officers for the year were elect
ed at a recent meeting of the Erie 
Clan at the University Club. They 
are as follows:
President, Ray Keller, care Hammermill Paper Company; secretary 
and treasurer, R. C. Warren, care the 
Warren Company.
ALL CLANS
University of Minnesota.Dean E. 
P. Lyon recently had difficulty in lo
cating two missing arms of a skele
ton in the University of Minnesota 
dispensary, but he finally accomplish
ed the feat.
Following the disappearance of the 
bony arms, a notice -was posted by the 
dean to the effect that no grades could 
possibly be given out unless the skele
ton recovered his missing limbs.
Soon after the dean received a neat
ly wrapped Christmas parcel, enclosed 
in which were the missing appendages 
and a letter explaining that the offend
er was sorry this has caused you so 
much trouble, but it was necessary to 
borrow the arms temporarily for study 
and review.
Have you arranged for a, radio party 
on February 14, when an all-.Carnegie 
program will be broadcast from Car
negie Music IJall through station 
KDKA? If you havent, get busy now, 
and be (prepared to listen in on some 
of the old songs, yells, the Kiltie 
Band, the Glee Club, the Symphony . 
Orchestra and members of the Drama 
Department.
Cy Unzicker out in Indianapolis is 
getting up a party there, and they 
dont even have a clan. So get to
gether on this thing and then let us 
know how it worked out.
Table holders include: Miss Wilhelmina Bunting, Mrs. S. E. Moliler, Miss 
Elizabeth Wysor, Mrs. Joseph Wil
kins, Mrs. Chester P. Galleher, Miss 
Miriam Weikert, Miss Gertrude Overliolt, Mrs. W. R. Metzger, Miss Anna 
Loomis McCandless, Miss Maude 
Cook, Miss Sue Smith, Miss Edith 
Scott Glenn, Mrs. A. G. Nesbitt, Miss 
Nora ' Henderson, Miss Mary M. 
Young, Mrs. Robert P. Floyd, Miss 
Eleanor Riesmeyer, Mrs. D. L. Gilles
pie, Mrs. E. M. Vermorcken and Mrs. 
Clarence Watkins.
Ann Arbor.Michigan is publishing 
a new magazine which will make its 
initial appearance on the campus soon. 
The purpose of The Student, as an
nounced by the editorial staff, will be 
to serve as a means for enlisting stu
dent discussion on the campus. It 
will contain eight pages and will ap
pear five times per term. All mem
bers of the personnel are sophomores.
Time is the Acid Test
Nothing'establishes the true worth of a. financial institu
tion more than time. Tlie fact that this bank has grown to 
an outstanding position in the Oakland field, through consist
ent and sincere endeavor to serve its best interests with high 
fidelity, proves beyond doubt that our policy is in accord with 
the demands of substantial opinion.
Thoroughly organized in every department, we are equip
ped to meet the needs of all kinds of business, from the dollar 
savings account to the credit demands of merchants.
We invite your business on our record, with assurance that 
you as well as your account will receive every consideration.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK
Member Federal Reserve System 
Forbes and Meyraji Avenues
Ur SouluUL ly BirdsiSy i' KAJNK. REILLY
' WELL - (____
DOE'S H \
N19C ALRIE
OH VES - HES 
REGOLAR Book ( 
V/OG/VN I

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1828THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREfc
Delco-Remy Offers 
Seniors Positions 
At Dinner Meeting
Pittsburgh Personnel Club to 
Discuss Training Men 
to be What?
At the next meeting of the Pitts
burgh Personnel Association which is 
to be held at the Hotel Henry at 12:30 
Thursday, February 9, 192S, the Sen
iors of the Electrical, Mechanical, 
Works Management, and Commercial 
Departments will be interviewed by 
Mr. 'Storch of the Delco-Remy Corpor
ation of Anderson, Indiana.
The topic of discussion at the meet
ing will be, Training Men To Be 
What (?)/ Mr. J. A. Oartel, Safety 
Director of the Carnegie Steel Com
pany, will be the discussion leader. 
The principal speaker will be Mr. Carl 
L. Storch, Manager of Personnel of the 
Delco-Remy Corporation and will deal 
primarily with the problem of train
ing college men to be efficient fore
men. Previous to speaking at the 
Personnel luncheon Mr. Storch will 
interview Seniors, at which time be 
will explain to them the idea, general 
principles and exactly what is to be 
expected^ of men employed by the 
Delco-Remy organization. From the 
men interviewed some will be chosen 
to enter the student course offered by 
this company. This will offer an ex
ceptional opportunity for men to jus
tify their selection and show their 
worth.
Those attending are assured every 
part of the discussion will be of value. 
Open discussion will give all an op
portunity to enter into the activity of 
the meeting.
Mr. Ivristof of the employment bu
reau has also requested that seniors 
who are interested in foreign service 
fields stop at the employment office. 
Seniors are also urged to fill out their 
employment blanks at once  because 
there are still 30 per cent of the 
blanks not filled. It is impossible for 
the employment bureau to co-operate 
with the students if the students fail 
to 'co-operate with the office in thi3 
matter.
Lecture by P. N. Woodring 
Interests Eng. Students
Last Monday evening, January 30, 
at Room 104 Industries a lecture on 
Problems of Automobile Lubrication 
was given to night course men tak
ing the automotive engineering 
course. This lecture was given by 
P. N. Woodring, managing engineer 
of the commercial car division of the 
Vacuum Oil Company. He__was also 
assisted by G. E. Swendeman of the 
Pittsburgh office of the Vacuum Oil 
Company. The lecture was very in
teresting and was accompainied by 
some descriptive slides showing the 
action of different types of lubricants 
on the motors. This lecture will soon 
be repeated for the benefit of the stu: 
dents in the day course. Due an
nouncement will be given as to the 
time and place the lecture will be 
given:
SCHOLARSHIP FUND TO GET
ALUMNI BRIDGE PROCEEDS
Although all the scholarship organi
zations on the campus have combined 
their activities for the purpose of 
financing from one source all the 
scholarships offered on the campus, 
the almuni are continuing to hold 
their annual bridge and 500, the pro
ceeds of which will be directed to the 
Scholarship Fund, and which will be 
held at the Hotel Schenley this Sat
urday at 2:30 P. M'. On account of 
the increasing expense entailed in 
holding these affairs and the greater 
amount of money that must be cleared 
owing to the rising tuition rates, the 
necessity for the alumni to co
operate in the project is great. In
dividual ticket contributions are ac
ceptable. Alumni branch clans may 
send in any money they wish to con
tribute.
PRINTING DEPARTMENT AIDS
IN PUBLISHING MAGAZINE
(Continued From Page One.) 
signed and engraved an original woodcut. S. Cahn, J. F. Christian, J. Kascsak, H. Minners, H. Thompson and 
other students have, under the super
vision of the faculty, written copy, 
planned the typographical layout, and 
set type for portions of the numbers 
published this year.
University of Wisconsin.The edi
tors of the Wisconsin Literary Maga
zine were given the privilege of tear
ing from the binding of each number 
of the last issue,, one page, because 
that page had on it a satire on Sher
wood Anderson which the faculty cen
sors believed was an insult to the. wellknown author.
The story which offended the cen
sors, according to the Daily Cardinal, 
was an introspective study of the 
thoughts of the author while buying 
and eating some fish of common color 
and unmistakable deadness.
University of Minnesota.  A 300- 
page volume of football as first played 
away back in the eighties up to the 
present will be published at Minne
sota.
The Bagpipe
The question asked those inter
viewed this week was: What-do you 
think about the proposed change in 
Campus Week plans?"
C. L. Wiseman, Senior in Depart
ment of Architecture: I prefer to
have Campus Week as it was with I 
three days instead of two days. The 
Mardi Gras should be on the pro
gram as it is one of the most popular 
events of the Week. If it is necessary 
to cut out any Vevent, the Migratory 
should be eliminated since the fra
ternities spend too much time and 
money decorating their houses for the 
Migratory. Last year, the fraternity 
men lost two weeks because of the 
Migratory, in preparing for it. Cam
pus Week should not be postponed un
til after Commencement because then 
it would cease to be an undergraduate 
affair. Without undergraduate par 
ticipation, Campus Week would not 
be successful.'
Howard Minners, Sen;or in De
partment of Printing: I haven't a 
great deal of interest in Campus 
Week, but inasmuch as the Student 
Council maintains activities on the 
Campus with the proceeds of Campus 
Week, it should be preserved and ob- i 
served at the same time of the year. 
The programs of the past Campus 
Weeks have been uninteresting. Such 
events as the Country Fair and Pushmobile Races should be cut out of the 
program for they have no place on 
an event like Campus Week. A formal 
dance should be substituted for~the 
Mardi Gras. Campus Week should 
be more like the annual affair of 
other colleges where they serve as 
alumni reunions with the different 
classes attending in distinctive dress. 
John E. Gates, Sophomore in 
Mechanical Engineering: I dont like 
the change because the Madri Gras is 
a pretty nice affair, and I like the 
idea of having a'three day.week since 
there is a lot to be done during the 
short time. Last years Campus 
Week was very successful and I see 
no reason for changing the plans. 
Mary Clark Burnett, Head of the 
Department of Social Work: As 
Campus Week breaks up the semes
ter when it is held in the middle of 
May, it should be held after the ex
aminations along with Commence
ment Week. It is upsetting to have 
gayety at the time when the students 
are studying for the examinations.
The first semester seems easier 
because it is practically continuous 
without any long breaks such as 
Easter and Campus Week. I doubt 
whether cutting down Campus Week 
to the two days would help, but it 
would not altogether eliminate the 
disturbance.
THINK WOMEN ARE NOT AS 
WELL ADAPTED TO AVIATION 
AS MEN, BECAUSE OF TRAINING
Aviation fpr women? Professor 
E. A.\ Stalker cast a side-long glance 
at his fellow professor, L. V. Kirber 
of the department of aeronautics, and 
smiled. Why, of course, we are de
lighted to have them in our classes. 
He paused. Once upon a time two 
or three women attended the class in 
Naval aeronautics for two weeks. I 
think they must have developed a 
case of cold feet for quite suddenly 
they stopped coming.
There is one woman now in the 
department, who is possibly the only 
woman in the United States who is 
specializing in the designing of 
planes.
But do you thing there is much 
opening for women in the aeronau
tical field? I asked.
Both men smiled. Like Ruth Elder, 
you meaan? Well there are two or 
three prominent women fliers, and 
in the National Physical Laboratory 
in England, Miss Cave-Brown-Cave 
is very prominent.
Of course, we feel that men, be
cause of their centuries of training 
along technical lines are much better 
adapted to the work than women. But 
for any woman who would like to un
derstand aviation in a very general 
way, Professor Pavlowski, head of 
the department 6f aeronautics, gives a 
couse, Aeronautics 1, for which th 
only prerequistes are high school 
physics and trigonometry.
John D. Alcerman, designer of the 
instruments, escorted me through the 
long, smooth, white wind tunnel, 
showing how the models of various 
sizes were hung facing the wind, to 
be tested for their "life, drag and sta
bility. He started the motor, the bet
ter to explain it all. You see, the 
wind rushes through here at rates 
we can govern, as high as 200 miles 
an hour, and the model, w\iich is hung 
by wires that are attached to scales 
are attached to scales above, can be 
above, can be adjusted to the finest 
differentiation.
Akerman has completed his work 
here with the designing of the in
struments, and there remains now, 
only the calibrations of the air cur
rents to be completed, the freeing of 
it from eddies. This latter will be 
accomplished by a honeycomb ar
rangement of stove pipes through 
which the wind will travel just before 
it reaches the plane.
I enjoy aviation very much, said 
Miss Elsie MacGill a few moments 
later. And I think it is a splendid, 
interesting field for any woman to 
follow who is at all interested in en
gineering; and I see no reason why 
women cannot do anything that men 
can if they really want to.
Actual flying is only given during 
the summer in naval and military 
aviation courses.Ann Arbor.
Where do young college men get in a large 
industrial organization? Have they 
opportunity to exercise creative talent? 
Is individual work recognized?
Conowingo, not far from 
where the Susquehanna 
River flows into Chesapeake 
Bay, the Philadelphia Electric 
Company is erecting a huge dam
Conowingo
and power house. This hydro
electric development, one of the 
largest in the world, has an initial 
capacity of 281 ,aoo kv-a. in seven 
units and an ultimate capacity of 
440,000 kv-a. The generators, 
due to their very low operating 
speed of 81.8 r.p.m., are much 
larger physically than anything 
yet built, each machine being 
approximately 37 feet in diameter
and weighing over one million 
pounds.
Only an organization of the 
size and resources of Westinghouse can undertake the building 
of such a large machine. Westinghouse offers great attractions to 
young men of enterprise and 
genius because it daily provides 
facilities and opportunities which 
smaller companies cannot offer.
Westinghoiise
Pennsylvania R. R. Red Arrow QuartetSENIOR BALL ORCHESTRA 
TO BE ANNOUNCED SOON
After several weeks of discussion 
and inquiries the committees of the 
Womens Senior Ball are prepared to 
make the final selection of the or
chestra which will supply the music 
at this annual March dance. Evelyn 
Offut and Elizabeth Hayes, the com
mittee in charge of engaging an or
chestra, haave devoted much time to 
the problem of securing the finest 
dance music possible and they feel 
that when the name of the chosen or
chestra is announced, it will be highly 
satisfactory.
The success of the Tea Dance, 
given in the Union last Thursday by 
the Senior Ball committees, makes 
the work of the financial committee, 
Betty Calvin, Dot. Smith and Alice 
Mclnnis much easier. The Tea Dance 
was well patronized and much praised 
by the dancers. The novel contests 
were especially delightful, while 
Owens orchestra made a real hit. 
The profits from the dance will b< 
used to defray part of the expense ol 
the Ball.
The Ball this year is to be given i< 
the ballroom of the William Penn 
Hotel on March 9. The dance is 
given by the seniors girls of both 
Arts College and Margaret Morrison.
Contract 
Administrator 
Penn Stute 22
The -picture above shows workmen assembling one of the huge Conowingo 
stators in the IVestinghouse JVorks at East Pittsburgh. The men in the picture 
will give an idea of the tremendous size of these generators.
YOUNGER COLLEGE MEN

ON RECENT WESTINGHOUSE JOBS
TO
Rii NE BAUDRV 
Driijlini! Engineer 
rfcolu Nationale 
tlArUi ut Miklcrii 
clAU-en-Provencu 10
J. II.Desini! Kiwineer 
Diluii ' 1 
HAIL SCABBARD AND BLADE
DANCE SUCCESSFUL AFFAIR
Desiati Engineer 
U. of Miuuouri *23
Design Engineer 
Carnegie Tech '23
The Scabbard and Blade dinner 
dance, held last Wednesday evening, 
February 1, from 8:30 to 1:00 at the 
Morrowfield Apartment Hotel, was a 
greai success. From thirty^five to 
forty couples danced to the melodious 
tunes which the boys of Rohlands Or
chestra brought forth from the instru
ments.
The dance was not organized to 
celebrate any special occasion, but 
merely to afford the active and asso
ciate members of G Company, 6th 
Regiment of this national honorary 
military society, an opportunity to 
have a good time together.
SING AT ASSEMBLY TODAY
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
IN MUSIC HALL TODAY;
PROMPTNESS URGED
Continued From Page One.) 
it should be.. Students are urged to 
attend assemblies regularly, since 
they constitute the only chance of the 
many departments of the school to 
gather under one roof. The program 
today will undoubtedly be one of the 
best of the year, and the students are 
requested to get to the music Hall as 
early as possible in order to insure 
the program opening promptly.
The chaperons were Major and Mrs. 
James G. Taylor and Lieutenant and 
Mrs. John C. Arrowsmitli.
INDUSTRIES SENIOR PARTY 
POSTPONED FOR BETTER DATE
The Industries Senior Party which 
was to have been held last Friday 
evening, Swas postponed for at least 
two weeks by order of the committee. 
Shortly before the event the com
mittee realized that the postponement 
would benefit all those concerned by 
affording time to secure a more suita
ble open date on the social calendar 
aand by allowing more preparation 
to make the function the success 
primarily planned.
As trouble was encountered in try
ing to secure a club or hotel in Which 
to give the party It will probably bo 
given in one of the fraternity houses 
as was last years party.
JOHN BROPHY WILL SPEAK
TO HINDUSTAN CLUB FEB. 11
Pittsburgh members of the Hindus
tan Association will hold their, next 
monthly meeting in the usual meeting 
place, the rec hall of Margaret 
Morrison on Saturday evening at 
S:00 P M The program of entertain
ment includes as a feature a speech 
on Russia by Mr. John Bropliy, who 
is an authority on the existing situa~ 
tion in tlint land and who has been 
there with Mr. John Maurer, presi
dent of the American Federation of 
Labor of Pennsylvania, who went to 
Russia to survey the conditions of 
that country, already the subject of 
great controversy and speculative 
conversation. As is customary, the 
.meeting is open to the public.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1923
mirfinii
TARTAN ACKNOWLEDGES THE 
FIRST ROBIN REPORT OF YEARCarnegie Deans Entertain 
Foreign Students at InnResearch Laboratory 
Work Extended Into 
Local Steel Mills
Music NotesCorrected Fraternity DirectoryOn last Friday, February the third, 
at 8:20 oclock, the firstor should we 
say the lastrobin of the season was 
reported to the Tartan office. At any 
rate, such a bird was seen, perched 
serenely on the branch of one of the 
numerous Sycamores that adorn Morewood avenue, just opposite the en
trance to the cut.
Immediately after Mr. Groundhog 
has decided in favor of six more weeks 
of winter, Mr. Robin bobs up and an
nounces the premature arrival of that 
greatest of all seasons, spring. A 
warning to Dr. Marks to be on his 
guard for neck trouble in all its 
phases seems to be in line, as every
one will be so anxious to be the next 
that physical impairment might not 
be seriously-enough considered.
February 9.
Serge Rachmanioff, pianist, will give 
a recital Thursday, February 9, at the 
Carnegie Music Hall.
February 10 and 11.
The Minneapolis orchestra of 100 
players, and the Mendelssohn choir of 
Pittsburgh, comprising 200 voices, will 
combine to give one of the greatest 
works in musical literature, Beethov
ens Ninth' Symphony, on Friday and 
Saturday, February 10 and 11, at Syria 
Mosque.
The Soloists will be Jeannette 
Vreeland, soprano; Nevada Van Der 
Veer, contralto; Judson House, tenor; 
and Fraser Gange, baritone. In addi
tion to the Beethoven Ninth Sym
phony, the Mendelssohn choir will be 
hoard in Gustav Holts The Hymn of 
Jesus, with Ernest Lunt conducting. 
Henri Verbrugghen will conduct the 
symphony.
February 13.
Mine. 'SigridOnegin of the Metro
politan Opera company will give a re
cital in the auditorium of the Y. M. 
and W. H. A. tylonday, February 13.
Her program is as follows:
Away, Away All Pains (aria from
Orfeo and Euryd^ce..................Gluck
(a) I Attempt From Loves Sick
ness to Fly...........................
...Henry Purcell (1G58-1695)
(b) Nymphs and Shepherds........
...Henry Purcell (1658-1695)
(c) Since From My Dear Astreas
Sight .....................................
.Henry Purcell (1658-1695)
(d) When Daisies Died..................
..Thomas A. Arne (1710-1778)
(a) Epiphanias -----....Hugo Wolf
(b) Gesang Weylas........Hugo Wolf
(c) Wer Hat Dies Liedlein Er
dacht? .......Gustav Mahler
(d) Rheinlegendclien ....................
.................... Gustav Mahler
(a) Sene Et Ronda (from Billet
de Loterie).. .Nicolo Isouard
(b) Impromptu in A flat___Chopin
Franz Dorfmueller at the piano.
Acacia, 807 South Millvale..................
Alpha Sigma Phi, 5601 Wilkins..........
iilpha Tau Omega, 435 North Neville 
Beta Sigma Rho, 5437 Aylesboro..-... 
Beta Theta Pi, 5549 Forbes Street...
Delta Mu, 1655 Shady Avenue............
Delta Phi Delta, 5031 Bayard............
Delta Tau Delta, 630 Clyde..................
Delta Upsilon, 5035 Forbes............
Phi Kappa, 4742 Center Avenue........
Phi Kappa Psi, 4817 Center Avenue. 
Phi Sigma Kappa, 1408 Wightman...
Pi Kappa Alpha, 4807 Baum................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 4915 Forbes... 
Sigma Phi Epsilon, 4929 Forbes.
Sigma Nu, 4921 Forbes.........................
Theta Xi, 5017 Forbes...........................
Kappa Sigma, 624 Clyde......................
Kappa Sigma Rho, 444 Amberson....
INFLUENCE OF PRINTING
SUBJECT OF LECTURE
TO BE GIVEN BY A. COLE
(Continued From Page One.) 
Current Washing in the Chemical In
dustry.
The chemical equipment lectures of 
last year will be discontinued as .such, 
but special lectures will be arranged 
for the seniors from time to time.
NIGHT STUDENT COUNCIL
FAVORS NEW CAMPUS WEEKLARGE CROWD ATTEND 
SOPH DANCE IN UNION
At a meeting held January 22, Car
negie Night Student Council approved 
the continuation of Campus Week, in 
its new form. This action appropri
ately follows that of the day Student 
Council previously.
A large crowd attended the dance 
given by the sophomore class at the 
Union last Friday night, and everyone 
present seemed to be primed for a 
real good time. However the crowd 
was somewhat disappointed when it 
was announced that the music would 
stop at twelve. The dance had been 
registered in the Deans office as a 
one o'clock dance, and was advertised 
as such for two weeks, but due to a 
last minute decision on the part of 
the Dean of Women, the committee 
was forced to close the dance at 
twelve.
The music was furnished by the 
Collegiate Imps, who produced their 
usual brand oi' good music. The com
mittee in charge of the dance is to 
be congratulated on the very nice 
crowd which turned out for the affair. 
The members of the committee were 
Jimmie Ash well, Red Kennedy, and 
Joe Bush.
Yale.Yale Student Council mem
bers must pledge their willingness to 
enforce the honor system before put
ting their names on the ballot. The 
pledge includes the reporting of all 
violations. Laxity of enforcement 
caused the failure of the honor sys
tem experiment last year.
BALTIMORE
Custom. Tailored 
Clothes for Men
Introduction by a friend is usually 
the safest way to make new acquaint
ances. For about fifteen years this 
paper has introduced its students to a 
dependable Service Station for Invi
tations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen 
Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if 
you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
Announce Their
SPRING OPENING
The Carnegie Glee Club presented 
the flrslj of a series of concerts at the 
Edgewood High School last Thursday 
night. The Glee Club was well re
ceived by the audience, and is to be 
commended for the success of the first 
concert this year. The club is under 
the direction of student director, Wal
ter .T. Poyntz, who fills his position 
very capably. Solos were given by 
Miss Leota McNemry, Messrs. Paul 
Brautigam, Charles Shotts and Joe B. 
Patterson. The program was as fol
lows:
1. Song of Fellowship..................Gaul
Zut, Zut, Zut............................................................Elgar
Carnegie Glee Club
2. Violin 'SoloFrasquita........Kreisler
Joe Browne Patterson
3. Three Pictures ...............Rubinstein
Carnegie Glee Club
4. Piano SoloTwo Rhapsodies...
............................................. Brahms
Charles Shotts
5. Thou Art Repose.............S'chubert
Finnish Lullaby ..................Palmgren
Carnegie Glee Club 
(i. Xylophone SoloSelected 
Miss Leota McNemry
7. Mlrnge ........................................ Gaul
Norsemon ................................ Grieg
Carnegie Gloo Club
8. Bari tone Solo-Selected
Paul Brautigam
9. Dear Old Tech..................Cameron
Alma Mater ...........................OBrien
Carnegie Glee Club
S-ECOND SEMESTER SHOWS
NORMAL REGISTRATION
Young People's Service, 11 A. M. 
Mr. SmithOur Greatest 
Resources.
(Continued From Page One.) 
manerit nor on the other hand, are 
they by any means approximate. They 
are exact for the registration period 
ending February 2 at 4:00 oclock, but 
on the following daytoo late for 
publication in detailit was estimated 
that between 35 and 40 more students 
signified their intention of returning.
A detailed summary should be forth
coming in the next issue of the Tar
tan.
Evening Service, 8 P. M. 
Open ForumHistory of the 
Punishment of Criminals.
TODAYSunday, February 12 
Young People's Sunday
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
------nnd------
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS 
Sorvloe that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu If doaJ,rod or merely Cakes, Ice 
Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on re/juest.
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes  PastriesIce Creams 
IcesBroad and Candles ideally made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge for city delivery.
Table and Fountain Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
Last Thursday afternoon the mem
bers of the St. Olaf Lutheran Choir 
of Northfield, Minnesota, were guests 
at a tea held by the music department 
in the Exhibition Room. After tea 
was served,\the students and faculty 
of the Music Department took their 
guests on a tour of inspection through 
the Arts School. The Choir is on a 
three-weeks tour, and Pittsburgh is 
very fortunate to have heard such a 
splendid program as was presented in 
the evening at the Siyria Mosque. The 
choir is under the direction of F. 
Melins Christiansen, Music Depart
ment. The evening program was:
Jesus, Priceless Treasure............Bach
How Fair the Church of Christ Shall
Stand ............................... Schumann
Go, Song of Mine.........................Elgar
Hosannali ....................... Christiansen
May Our Mouths Be Filled With Thy
Praice ....................... Rachmaminoff
Salvation is Created... .Tschesnokoff
From Heaven Above............Schumann
The Morning Star...............Schumann
So iSbberly .. .Norwegian Folk Melody.
Marienlied ..................................... Vega
Wake, Awake For The Night is 
Flying ..................................... Nicolai
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
LEARN TO DANCE
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday 
Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and Saturday Evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
WCane.i C<y 
CATERERS6HAUYAMD PENN AVE-, IUTTSUUROII
DIFFERENCE
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Fit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
De Soto might be a 
telephone mantoday
Yesterday y the 50-pair cableToday, the 
1200-pair cable
University of California.The Daily 
Californian prints under the heading, 
Blind Brunettes More Sensitive, a de
finite (?) article:
Totally blind, dark-skinned people 
are more sensitive to light than 
blondes, and albinos are almost help
less, according to the observation of 
Richard S. French, lecturer in the ed
ucation department at the University, 
and principal of the California School 
for the Blind.
Professor French has found that 
those people who are able to distin
guish between light and darlc are 
healthier than those who are totally 
blind. Light also plays a vitally im
portant part in the focusing of atten
tion on class room subjects. A cer
tain amount of mental alertness comes 
from sight stimulation. Because of 
this, class periods in his school are 
only twenty minutes long, since it is 
very easy for a blind person to fall 
asleep from mental fatigue.
He pioneered a way into new coun
try  and back again. He led his 
men through every obstacle; where 
there were no resources he made them, 
where there were no boats he built 
them.
Today men of the telephone indus
try are the De Soto kind of pioneer. 
They have the vision to tackle the 
new job and the resourcefulness to
see it through. In working to make 
a better cable they saw the need for a 
new method of insulating wiresand 
they devised it.
Guiding the technicians skill, 
telephone pioneering demands coura
geous business leadership by supervi
sor and executive. To keep up with a 
new country, industry needs not only 
great momentum but right direction.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
(
VISION) 
PROGRESS L 
SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER /
PAGETWTOH is n profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 0 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
BELL SYSTEM
tA nation-wide system of 18,900,000 inter-connecting telephones
KAUFMANN/
PITTSBURGHFIFTH AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1828THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
FAILURES VARY GREATLY 
FROM PREVIOUS YEARSIntercollegiate Briefs j
The Department of Engineering ( 
says that the number of failures in | 
freshman drawing has decreased in j 
the last nine years from the regular ; 
college average of fifty per cent to 
sixty per cent to a low average of ten 
per cent to fifteen per cent. Professor 
McCully has traveled to universities 
and technicals schools from Maine to 
Iowa, and arranged his course from 
the best features of all of them. He 
attributes Carnegie's record to the 
better arrangement of the course. In
stead of concentrating Descriptive 
Geometry in one semester it is dis
tributed over the entire year, so that 
students digest it more easily.
Carnegies course almost without 
exception covers more ground than 
any other freshman drawing course. 
It has now reached the place where 
it is no longer a question of what 
schools we rank with as regards 
drawing, but rather what schools 
rank with us.
Dr. Griffiss made the statement in 
Statistics, a Junior course which he 
teaches, that thirty-four per cent 
failed.
In the Industries Psychology 
classes, the number of failures ex
ceeds those of last year. The main 
reason is that the size of the sections 
is unusually large. In all except one 
case the pupil knew that his class 
standing on previous examinations 
was low. The one case happened be
cause an exceptionally low mark was 
made in the final, so that it was imppssible to give a passing grade.
LIBRARY PRESENTS
EXHIBIT ON BURNS
DR. EMIL LUDWIG CROSSES 
THE OCEAN TO GET A NEW
SLANT ON AMERICANA
Commemorates One Hundred and 
Sixty-Ninth Birthday
(Continued From Page One.) 
Heinrich Mann to the older Thomas 
who wrote "The Magic Mountain. 
But Nietzsche was the spirit grand. father of them all. He is also very 
sympathetic with Sinclair Lewis in 
America, who is regarded here in 
much the same light as he, himself, is 
regarded in Germany.
Dr. Emil Ludwig was born in Bres
lau in 1881. His father was a cele
brated opthalmologist and his grand, 
father was a big iron and steel man 
from Upper Silesia. His fathers 
scientific work in behalf of public 
health caused him to take up the study 
of social welfare, but even the acqui
sition of a Doctorate of Jurisprudence 
could not kill his interest in literature. 
Between the ages of twenty and thirty | 
he wrote plays, one of them about Na- i 
poleon and in 1911 lie first made the'! 
acquaintance of Bismarks letters 
which was the turning point in his 
career, for he adopted the Iron Chan
cellors prose style as his model and : 
dropped poetry which was all that he 
had written up to that time.
Shortly before the war Ludwig vis
ited Englanda country that he evi
dently prefers to France, especially 
now that he is so widely read there 
and has been favorably compared to 
Carlyle. In fact he declares that his 
masters are Plutarch and Carlyle. He 
strives to emulate from afar those 
two comparalleled psychologiststhe 
one in his immaculate lucidity, the 
other in his volanic energy.
When I asked him if he had seen 
any great men in Europe lie replied, 
I have seen only three great men in 
Europe this year. One is George 
Bernard Shaw, who is far greater as 
an educator than a playwright. An
other is Einstein the great scientist 
who was the lone genius who appeared-on the scene in 1919 and changed 
the fundamental ideas of the world, 
and the. third person is perhaps the 
greatest of all, and that is President 
Masaryk of Czechoslovakia, who first 
dreamed of his nation, than made it, 
and then governed it.*
Dr. Ludwig styles himself as a 
psycho-portraitist in his method 
of writing his biographies. In painting 
his portraits Ludwig does not feel 
himself bound to a nation, an age, 
or a- view of life, but seeks rather 
0 to render to each man his own. His 
method is truly that of the portrait 
painter, that of selecting the signifi
cant details out of the mass of mater
ials, with enough sufficient emphasis 
to make the subject unique.
Portraits, said Ludwig, often 
prove a very valuable aid. Once I 
wrote a ten-page biography about 
Goethe from portraits. And later when 
I was writing my two-volumn life on 
him, I found no need to tone down or 
sharpen any of the high lights of the 
soul picture. Yes, the face is truly 
the tonic chord of the personality.
And what to do you think of Os
wald Spenglar? I asked.
There was a kind of wave of pess
imism that fell over Germany after the 
war. During that timpe Spenglar was 
readily adopted as the apostle of the 
hour. But that time is over; he no 
longer is needed. . . .
Dr. Ludwig is a restless man. He 
moved across the room and gazed over 
the city. The smoky pall was com
mingling with the dusk of evening. 
Distant hills were being decked with 
lighted necklaces.
. Which prompted me to ask the liter
ary lion what he thought of Pitts
burgh.
So much like Essen, he replied, 
I took a trip through your mining dis
tricts this morning. It is all very won
derful, yes, he concluded, it is all 
very wonderful.
H. H. J.
To commemorate the one hundred 
and sixty-ninth anniversary of the 
birth of Burns, the Redpath Library 
has during the past week, exhibited a 
number of his works. Including also 
in the exhibit are a large number of 
photographs of the renowned Scottish 
bard and several of his belongings 
which have withstood the test of time 
and are in a good state of preserva
tion. The volumes comprising the 
exhibit are the property of the library 
although the various other articles in 
the exhibit have in the majority of 
cases been loaned to the library by the 
owners.
It seems that Burns was musically 
inclined for amongst the various ar
ticles in the exhibit is to be seen a 
flute which belonged to the poet. It 
was bequeathed to Mrs. Brown of 
Dumfries, the poets granddaughter. 
Mrs. Brown presented the flute to Mr. 
Thomas Ballantyne who lent it to the 
library. A piece of darkened wood 
forms another part of the exhibit. 
This is a piece of wood from the Auhl 
Brig o Ayr and was lent to the library 
by Mr. William McBroom. Another 
item are silver sugar tongs and a ring 
containing a lock of hair of John 
Rankin, Burns boon companion. 
Rough, red, and ready-witted Rank
in. This was lent to the library byMr. Adam Haddow.
One of the oldest exhibits of Burns 
works is entitled The Works of Ro
bert Burns in three volumes by Dr. 
Currie and others. This edition was 
printed at Edinburgh in 1820 and was 
lent to the library by Mr. William MeBroom. In a copy of the Quarterly 
Review for May 1809, there appears 
a review of the poems of Burns. 
Amongst other volumes, is a fascimile 
reproduction of the Original Kilmar
nock Edition of the Poems of Robert 
Burns which was printed at Kilmar
nock in 1870 by James McKie.
Mr. William McBroom also lent to 
the library a volume entitled a Chro
nicle of the 100th Birthday of Robert 
Burns. This was collected and edited 
by Janies Ballantyne at' Edinburgh in 
1859. Among the more recent volumes 
on Burns "is that by Andrew Dakers 
entitled Robert BurnsHis Life and 
Genius. The only book in the exhibit 
dealing with Burns written in a for
eign language is one in French on the 
bards life, written by Auguste Augellier Docteur des Lettres, Professeur 
a lUniversite de Lille, in 1893 at 
Paris.
Among the numerous photographs 
are some showing places which Burns 
mentions in his works.McGill.
MENCKEN GIVES OPINIONS
ABOUT COLLEGE WORLD
(New 'Student News Service) 
Henry L. Mencken, author, critic, 
and editor of the American Mercury, 
has been granting interviews to repre
sentatives of several eastern college 
and university newspapers. He re
cently made the folowing remarks in 
an interview with a reporter for Tho 
Sun. the publication of Cornell uni
versity.
I am thoroughly convinced that too 
many young Americans are now going 
to college, and that their presence is 
greatly impending the work of the 
colleges. Certainly it should be possi
ble to devise some scheme to weed 
out the unfit.
Mr. Mencken also states that he is 
opposed to the college for the purpose 
of intellectual education. He agrees 
with the famous critic, George Jean 
Nathan, who says that the greatest 
benefits of college are social.
Mencken believes that compulsory 
military training is absurd. He can
not see why a college student should 
be drafted, and not the young man 
who is not attending college.
In commenting on the Oxford lec
ture system of curricular work which 
seems to be gaining favor in the East, 
he says: "The American system, it 
seems to me, is better for Americans 
than the Oxford system. It is obvi
ously more in accord with the habits 
of mind of our people.,r
Mr. Mencken, who considers boot
legging a more desirable job than 
writing for a young college man, says, 
in regard to fraternities:
Regarding fraternities I know noth
ing. It is commonly alleged that they 
foster snobbery. But I see no objec
tion to snobbery per se; all rational 
men are snobs in some way or an
other. That the fraternities exalt 
fifth-raters and overlook men of merit 
may be true, but the accusation might 
be leveled against any other human in
stitution. .
FAITH IN HEREDITY
WAINS WHEN CO-ED
TRIES TO FIX LAMP
The madness of many a man has 
had its source at the Womens build
ing. But two of the campus electri
cians are slowly going insane, on a 
strictly business basis, because of
some of its inhabitants.
These are the men who turn out in 
all sorts of weather to keep the Wom
ens building lights going, and, as
such, feel homage due them. Last 
week these poor souls trudged over 
through the slush and snow, to fix a 
lamp. Half a lamp awaited them. It 
was after their first look at the wreck 
presented for their ministrations that 
they began to slip.
It seems that it was once a perfect
ly good lamp. Bought, perhaps, at
the dime store, piece by piece, but
still quite a lamp. Something went 
wrong, as these things will, and the 
owners of the lamp wanted to sum
mon an electrician. The impulse, 
however, was stifled as extravagant. 
The father of one of the girls on the 
floor was an electrician, and why not 
she? Th owners of the lamp, you 
will perceive, believed that there was 
simply nothing in environment. It's 
all, they might have told you, heredity. 
So the electricians daughter was 
summoned; and set all doubts at rest 
by disclosing the fact that lier brother 
was also an electrician; thus, of 
course, proving the heredity theory.
The heredity expert set to work, 
but things didnt seem to go as well 
as had been expected. Pieces, seem
ingly superfluous, kept coming off the 
lamp, and there appeared to be no 
means for fastening them on again; 
so they were simply discarded as use
less. But they must have been there 
for something, for immense shocks 
coursed through those touching the 
lamp after their removal, and Joe, of 
the Womens building, asked to pull 
the fuse, saw to it that an electrician 
was summoned.
As has been said, half a lamp 
awaited the poor man, and he started 
to go mad on the spot. Controlling 
himself somewhat, he inquired for the 
missing half, and was airily informed 
that it was gone. Gone where? Oh, 
just gone.
Hre he began to paw the air, and 
inquire, in a homicidal tone, for her 
of the heredity ability. As often 
happens in these cases, she was not 
to be found. But he did his best, ham
pered as lie was by her wariness. For 
three days he left the wires and things 
indecently exposed, with 110 volts run
ning through them, nd laid tempting
ly near the switch. But he was foiled 
again. The amateur electrician made 
no effort to turn the switch. And, in 
a saner moment., and impelled by du
ty, he finally came, staggering under 
extra parts, and sheathed the wires 
again.Michigan State U.
CARNEGIE TO BROADCAST 
THROUGH KDKA TUESDAY
On Tuesday evening, February 14, 
Carnegie students will broadcast an 
hours program of entertainment 
direct from Carnegie Music Hall. 
The program will be broadcast 
through station KDKA, of the Westingliouse Electric Co., on a wave 
length of 316 standard or 63 short. 
The program will begin at 10 p. m.
The program for the evening will 
include music by the Symphony Or
chestra, the Glee Clubs, the Kiltie 
Band, and the Bach Choir. The Drama 
Department will present several 
humorous sketches, and Mr. Black
ball, a faculty member, will entertain 
with selections on the bagpipe. 
"Buddy Overend will give a short 
talk, and Prof. Chester Wallace will 
be the official announcer.
The Caruogie Music Hall will be 
open to the public at 9:30 p. m. on 
the evening of the entertainment 
Carnegie students are all cordially in
vited to attend.
Girls Glee Club To Sing 
At U. S. Veterans Hospital
The Girls Glee Club will entertain 
at the U. S'. Veterans Hospital in 
Aspinwall some Thursday evening in 
February, probably at the latter part 
of the month. This will be the girls 
second concert of the year, the first 
having been given at the McGee Hos
pital several weeks ago. In all pro
bability the Stringers, an instrumen
tal club of girls, will accompany the 
Glee Club on this trip and assist with 
the program. Last year the Glee 
Club presented a very successful pro
gram at the Veteran's Hospital, and 
due appreciation was expressed by the 
cordial attitude of the soldiers who 
furnished the girls with delicious re
freshments after the concert.
The Glee Club has been holding 
regular weekly practices every Tues
day afternoon in the Margaret Morri
son Assembly since the first of Octo
ber as well as a number of Sunday 
afternoon practices. The girls are 
gradually getting into fine shape for 
a number of concerts which are to bo 
given during the next three months. 
Soveral out-of-town trips are being 
contemplated.
LINDY A QUESTION MARK
TO ARKANSAS FRESHMEN
Fayetteville, Ark., January 21.Four 
freshmen in the l/niversity of Ar
kansas do not know who Charles Lind
bergh is.
Use It Than Any 
Other Kindand if you paid double 
you couldnt improve on it
Want a pen for lifelong use?$7 buys 
it; $5, if you want a smaller size. Because 
of Parkers Non-Breakable Permanito 
Barrels these pens have been thrown from 
airplanes 3,000 feet aloft without damage.
Want ease of writing?Parker Duofolds famous Pressureless Touch, due to 
a fine ink channel ground between the 
prongs of the point (bringing capillary at
traction to the aid of gravity feed) is great
est writing improvement in years.
And Permanite, while Non-Breakable, 
makes Duofolds 287o lighter in weight than 
when made with rubber as formerly.
Why do most college students use it? 
try it yourself and know.
5 flashing colors. 3 sizes for men and 
women. Six graduated pointsone to fit 
your hand exactly.
Look for imprint, Geo. S. Parker on 
each pen. Pencils, too, in colors to match 
pens. See a Parker dealer now.
THH PARK I'll PEN COMPANY. JANBSVIIAB. WI8.
DuqfbldQ)
p and #5
according to size The Permanent Pen
lUd ud ItUok Color Combination It.. Trado Mark U. fl. Pot. Offloo
One of thom thinks ho was tho 
prime minister of Sweden during tho 
fiftieth century; ono thinks ho was n 
German general in tho World War; 
ono thinks he is tho loader of tho Bol
shevists In Russia, while tho fourth
understands Lindbergh was the battio 
lino that tho Allies had such difficulty 
in broaking through in 1918.
Thoso answers wore found among 
papers handed in at a quiz In a froshman history course there today.
WOMEN COULD STUDY 37
YEARS AND MEN 36 ON
COE CURRICULUM
Juniata College.The newest thing 
here, according to The Juniata, stu
dent weekly, is a leap year hop after 
exams. "The college femmes have 
already submitted to the hand of fate 
and drawn a slip bearing a mans 
name. Him she will escort to -the 
party * * * and assume general re
sponsibility for his health and hap
piness.
Iowa State University.  Agnes 
Maude Royden, Englands foremost 
woman minister, does not believe in 
companionate marriage, but she does 
smoke, and that is the ground on 
which the Iowa W. C. T. U. is trying 
to prevent her from lecturing at the 
State University.
By ARIE POLDERVAART
A woman student could study for 
thirty-seven years at Coe college be
fore completing all the work offered 
in the regular Coe curriculum that is 
open to women. A man would Jjave 
to study at least thirty-six and onehalf years to complete the work offer
ed for him.
In case, however, he should decide 
to enroll in the department of home 
economics, which is perfectly per
missible according to present rules, 
he would have to study at least three 
extra semesters.
Would Have To. Carry 15 Hours.
In order to accomplish these results 
the students would be required to car
ry thirty hours a year or fifteen a 
semester and never flunk, as there are 
1,150 semester hours of collegiate 
work in the curriculum. Of this num
ber thirty-six credit hours are not 
open for women, and nine are not ac
cessible to men, not considering the 
home economics courses.
In this long and strenuous student 
life he would be the recipient of about 
600 semester examinations. Probably 
at the end of that time he would feel 
that study is a useless and unentertaining occupation.
Spend Years In Same Departments.
Here is the amount of time the stu
dent would have to spend in each of 
some of the larger departments if it 
were possible for him to make out a 
complete schedule in a certain depart
ment at one time: botany, one year; 
education, two years; English, two 
and one-half years; history, three 
years; and social sciences, over three 
and one-half years.
There would be a minimum of about 
seventy faculty members directly re
sponsible for passing this knowledge 
on to the student, and considering 
that numerous changes in the faculty 
would occur in that length of time, 
the actual number would undoubtedly 
be very much larger.Coe College.
Eugene, Ore.(IP)Word was re
cently received that two of the Uni
versity of Oregon around-the-world de
bate tour members, Avery Thompson, 
and Benoit McCroskey, were arrested 
in Nagasaki, Japan, on the charge of 
photographing a fortified zone.
The boys were detained for several 
hours but after a plea of ignorance of 
the law were released, and their nega
tives confiscated.
ADVERTISE AND GET RE8ULT
costs a lot, but Camel must have the best
It GS true that Camel is the quality ciga
rette, hut it costs to make it so. To make 
Camel tlic favorite tliat it is costs tlie 
choicest crops of Turkish and Domestic 
tobaccos grown. It requires the expense of 
a blending that leaves nothing undone in the 
liberation of tobacco taste and fragrancc.
But the fame that Cainel has won is 
worth all the trouble. It has brought
modern smokers a new realization of ex
cellence. They are particular and fastidious 
and they place Camel first.
Your taste will delight itself in these 
choice tobaccos. Camels get better the more 
of them you smoke. Their subtle tastes are 
unfolded by experience. They arc always 
delightfully smooth.
Have a Camel!
REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, WINSTON-SALEM. N. C.

O 1927

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1928
Eugene, Ore.(IP)Another under- j University of Delaware.The uni
graduate body has gone on record as j versity is again sponsoring a foreign 
favoring Herbert Hoover for the next I study group for the fifth year. Courses 
President of the United States. Last are given at the University of Paris, 
week the Yale students demonstrated I Nancy, Sorbonne and various other in
conclusively "that the former War Re- stitutions for students. They go to 
lief man was their choice, and just :i France for a years study under spebit later the University of Oregon un- cial tutorship ot assigned professors, 
dergraduates on the other side of the
continent made the same display. Minneapolis, Minn. (IP)Fifteen
The vote was 429 to 139 for A1 Smith, mothers and theif children are to be
?------------------------- the objects of observation in a series
Princeton, N. J.(IP)The State of experiments on sleep to be made by 
of Religion Among College Men" is Dr. Harry M. Johnson, o,f the Mellon 
to be the topic for discussion by a Institute of Pittsburgh, Pa., who has 
group of university and college presi- just returned to the University of Mindents when they gathered here on nesota to take charge of a staff 
February 17 for a three-day session, which is to make the experiments. 
Among those who will make talks at The experiments will extend over 
the gathering will be President John more than two years of time.
G. Iiibben, of Princeton; President .......... - 
Ernest H. Wilkins, of Oberlin; Dr. . .. 
Henry Emerson Fosdick, of New Tll6r6 IS 3> plclC6 IOF yOU
York; and President" C. C. Little, of in the Delltal Profession
the University of Michigan. xr , _ . .Never before have there been 
such excellent opportunities for 
men qualified as dentists and den
tal specialists. Train for a pro
fession offering a broad field in 
which you can make a place for 
yourself. Specialization in dentis
try opens the door to an assured 
future.
The Harvard University Dental 
Schoolthe oldest dental school 
connected with any university in 
the United Statesoffers thorough 
well - balanced courses in all 
branches of dentistry. All modern 
equipment for practical work under 
supervision of men high in the profession.
Write for details and admission 
requirements to Leroy M. S. Miner, Dean.
Harvard University 
DENTAL SCHOOL
Longwood Avenue Boston, Mass.
Palo Alto, Calif.(IP)Although 
he has as yet made no definite plana 
in this direction, Coach Pop" War
ner, of Stanford, has announced hisintention of trying out the two-team 
football idea started by Michigan in 
the Big Ten conference. It is proba
ble that the plans will materialize by 
the begining of the next football sea
son, according to Warner.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
March 1 
(2) 7:30
March 20 
(1) 8:30
March G 
(1) 8:30
March 15 
(1) 7:30
March 1, 
(1) 8:30
Marcii 1 
(2) 8:30SPARE TIME WORK
March 0 
(1) 8:30
March 15
(1) 7:30 
March 19
(2) 8:30
March -21 
(1) 8:30 
March 15 
(1) 8:30-
Turn your spare time into Ready 
Cash. Just a few hours work each 
week will pay you handsome divi
dends, handling the Agency at Carne
gie Tech On the Bradford line of Colle
giate Felt Goods.
No capital or experience required. 
We supply both. Write today for full 
details of our Liberal Money-Making 
Plan Quick action necessary to se
cure Agency.
BRADFORD & COMPANY, 
St. Joseph, Mich.
Marcii 20 
(1) 7:30
March r> 
(2) 8:30
March 7 
(2) 7:30
March 1 
(2) 8:30March 20 
(1) 8:30
March 14 
(1) 7:30
NUMBER REFERS TO FLOOR 
AThcta Xi
5Kappa Sigma
6Sigma Alpha Epsilon
7Nu Delta Alpha
8Henderson Hall
AMERICAN LEAGUEStretching Your Income
Only through careful, system
atic and efficient handling of. 
your funds can you make the 
most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial welfare of custom
ers and are ever ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial 
problems.
Your savings and checking ac
counts, even though small, are 
welcome here.
Capital and Surplus 
$17,000,000
Feb. 27 
(2) 7:30 
March 5 
(2) 7:30
March G 
(2) 7:30 
Feb. 28~ 
(1) 8:30
March 14 
(1) 8:30
March 20 
(2) 7:30 
March 13 
(2) 8:30 
March 6 
(1) 7:30 
Feb. 28
(1) 7:30 
Feb. 23
(2) 8:30
March 14 
(2) 8:30 
March 19 
(1) 8:30
March 21 
(1) 7:30
March 15 
(2) 7:30March 5 
(1) 8:30 
Feb. 14 
(1) 7:30
Feb. 13
(1) 8:30 
March 5
(2) 7:30
Complte service for Ladies 
and Gentlemen.March 19
(1) 8:30 
March 15
(2) 7:30March 21 
(1) 7:30March G 
(2) 7:30
March 13 
(2) 8:30
March 5 
(1) 8:304531 Forbes Street 
Near Craig
Mayflower 2838
March 20 March 19 
(2) 7:30 (2) 7:30
March 6 
(1) 7:30
NUMBER REFERS TO FLOOR
4Pi Kappa Alpha
5Delta Upsilon
6Kappa Sigma Rho
1Alpha Tau Omega
2Beta Sigma Rho
3Schobell Hall
7Phi Kappa
8Beta Theta Pi
THE IDEAL BUSINESS
IS RESUMING OPERATIONS
Dispose of your used books through us and make money. Buy the books you need 
from us and save money. A business from which customer and dealer both profit.
We want and have for sale
BOOKS, DRAWING SETS, ETC.
For Science, Industries, Arts, and M. M. C. C.
All are in good condition, at half to two-thirds new price.
FEDERAL LEAGUE
March 1 
(1) 7:30March 13 
(1) 7:30
THE STUDENTS BOOK SHOP
March 5 
(2) 8:30
March 13 
(1) 8:30Run by students at
NUMBER REFERS TO FLOOR
4Delta Tau Delta
5McGill Hall
6Delta Mu
1Boss Hall
2Phi Sigma Kappa
3Alpha Sigma Phi
7Sigma Phi Epsilon8Dlta Phi Delta
Diplomatic Diction in BerlinDiscovery Worth While
Archeologlstfl hnvcj unearthed somo 
tablets In Babylonia which prove that 
banking was flourishing fi.OOO years 
ago. Now, If they could only dig up 
it $.10 savings deposit that has been 
drawing Interest all that limn I
REVISED POINT SYSTEM 
FOR GIRLS ATHLETICS 
SUBMITTED TO W. A. A
the exception.)
7f> points lor practice only.
50 points for practice only.
Minor Sports.
75 points Cor making team.
Awards
1,000 pointsC."
G00 pointspin.
For making a class teamclass nu
merals.
Class managers receive 15 points. 
Seasons for Sports
ArcheryMajor sport.
FallBeginning of school year to 
November 1.
SpringMiddle of April to June 1. 
TennisMajor sport.
FallBeginning of school year to 
November 1.
BowlingMinor Sport
October 1 to middle of November. 
RifleMajor Sport
November 1 to April 1.
Five highest scorers at end of sea
son, 125 points.
Next five-high scorers, 100 points. 
For two practices a week, 75 points. 
For one practice a week, 50 points. - 
SwimmingMajor Sport 
November 1 to March 1.
HikingMinor Sport
All year.
Two miles or more continuous 
stretch, one point.
Every additional mile, one point.
No more than 50 points may be re
ceived per year.
Basket BallMajor Sport 
Decembej-l to March 1.
HockeyMajor Sport
Fall, beginning of school year to 
November 1.
Spring, April 1 to June 1.
Volley BallMinor sport
March 1 to May 1.
BaseballMinor Sport
April 1 to May 1.
New System Will Enable Girls To 
Win Coveted C In 
Their Junior Year.Will Anyone 
Accept This 
Challenge?
At the last mooting of t.ho W. A. A. 
Board the Committee on Points submll.tod its final report on the point 
system which will affect all girls par
ticipating in athletics at Carnegie. 
The proposed system shows a marked 
difference from the system used last 
year, the former being worked out on 
a basis of 1,000 points as the require
ment for a C, instead of 1,200 points.
If the new system is adopted a girl 
will be enabled to earn her letter with 
much less effort than formerly, and it 
will be quite possible for her to earn 
it by the end of her junior year so that 
she may wear it during her senior 
year. Heretofore, only two or three 
girls each year have received letters, 
and in most cases these have been re
ceived in the senior year just before 
graduation.
The new plan, to all appearances, 
would be a decided improvement over 
the old since it would encourage a 
greater number of girls to enter ath
letics. Definite action will be taken 
upon the proposed system at the next 
meeting of the board.
The report submitted by the Point 
Committee is as follows:
Womens Athletic Association Point 
system:
Major Sports.
100 points for making team (rifle
Columbia, S. D.
Sept. 9, 1926Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
I am a veteran of the Edgeworth army, still in active service.I make this claim, challenging all comers, to have smoked Edgeworth and nothing else but Edgeworth (when it was possible to get it) for a longer 
period than any other person within the scope of your territory.I have smoked Edgeworth for 
twenty-one years and will soon start on the twenty-second.Ill admit to having tried other 
brands, including so-termed high-class, high-priced blends and mixtures, enough to appreciate and satisfy myself of the superiority of Edgeworth.In all these years I have never had one can of Edgeworth that varied in flavor or otherwise.Yours very truly,(signed) J. J. Roberts
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
HOTEL ADLON, B Eft LIN. GERMANY
T
WO German diplomats, who had 
been at theUniversity of Bonn to
gether, met in the foyer of the Hotel 
Adlon after a separation of some years. 
One of them had been at a South Amer
ican capital,one in the Orient.
Eagerly they discussed old times and 
common memories, and they were still 
talking excitedly as they started to
ward the Otis Elevator. When they 
reached the door, they paused,each 
wishing to give the other precedence.
But you must go first, my good 
friend,one of them was heard to re
mark. Im sure the ride will be a nov
elty to you after so many years in the 
East, and I would not think of preced
ing you.
On the contrary, answered the 
other,! am insisting that you enter 
first. We lacked some things in the Ori
ent,buttheOtis,there as here, is in all 
the big shops and hotels.  Wed better 
squeeze in together, then, because South 
America, too, is well equipped! But 
wait a moment! You must go first, for 
I used the Otis on board the steamer 
every day!I, too! I will not be out
done!
Starting forward together, they col
lided at the door.
One would have to travel farther 
than civilization, East or West, to find 
any novelty in that taken-for-granted 
convenience, the Otis Elevator.
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
Basket Ball Season Opens.
Basket ball is one. of the sports 
which is attracting most attention 
among the girl's at present. Now that 
the Christmas holidays and exams are 
?> | over it Is hoped that a series of uninr | terrupted practices may get under 
way. A great deal more material is 
needed in order to develop teams on a 
j par with thoso of last year. If there 
is not a better turn-out at practice, 
the plan of forming dormitory teams 
may have to be abandoned.
Any girls wishing to fill positions 
| of class managers should apply imme
diately to Gladys Connor.
Basket ball is one of the sports 
j which is attracting most attention 
among the girls af. present; but like 
; the convict who had been sentenced 
11 for six months and who had served 
y i six years, we want more attention.
Fancy Wool Hose
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the lclnd students like to wour.
75c$1.00$1.50 PER PAIR
AuSliammer & Evans
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square Established 1872
ices in All Principal Cities of the World

---------------------------------------------------

AMD 'TbVe rOEv/iaR bgbm 
To er UP GNOySH MERVfS 
pop THE1 Q'J'SsrrtOhJ
WM6M Vou'VE. BBr>4 PemOim 
All of Yor tsv/eminvos amo 
M6T OF YUR fr\Y Fo ThRES Y=ARS 0(0 A V/OKJERFUL. GRL.
Joe, ('\ kvjouu ) THinjK 
a TERRIBLE Lot y
OF You A
Ive BSBM TWilroKtMG 
UATf3.LV AN)D  " yH "  1HOUJ vOfOOeRFUL. 'TV
1TU 1TU tF weCH- GO To THfc? TrtCTATHE 
TNVORROUJ Is/lHT \ I
t.5 MAV BE LE.A>P YeAR BUT IT
C RAEONI OHGUTOSI V,N ^SHATTERED
LIFE.
I w^T You To NDYHP, HWF W
<3oCD CIGARETTES...............I'M
FN'HY,FPBBD 72NN'8M 9VWLa That CToucEH op YouRS iA KID I HOPS. Yo<J v/JOhJ'T
Thimk Im. Tsrriqlv Frvjard 
im asking You This ____________,
M NBSJIR UH :or?,TRt>:iU s!eflAirtl132pi?
PAGE SEVENTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
The basket ball team took another one on the nose last Saturday. 
Meeting an under rated State team on the latters floor, the Tartans played 
an excellent game for the major part of the first quarter, then wilted under 
the gruelling pace and succumbed. Captain White played his usual good 
game on both offense and defense, with Harpster, beginning to flash his old 
form, as a running mate for the stellar honors.*******
The results of the examinations had deprived Coach Irwin of the services 
of a regular and several valuable subs, just in time to break up the new com
bination upon which he had pinned hopes of victory. However, Bill Brown, 
big forward from last years plebe team, had become eligible, and with prac
tically no practice, was started against the Lions. Brown played a good 
game.*******
The plebes had some tough luck, tieing up their game with the State* 
fresh with but a few seconds to play, then losing it as a State man sunk a 
long field goal to the accompaniment of the final whistle.
The plebes have had several such tough breaks to date, and should soon 
get rid of their jinx, as Coach Allison has now developed a quint which is be
ginning to work together very smoothly.*******
On Wednesday^night, the Tartans will face the great Pitt team in the second game of the annual series, the game to be played here. The Pitt team 
played two very hard games over the week end, with Army and Colgate, and 
will be facing three foes on WednesdayCarnegie, over confidence and possi
ble staleness.
The Carnegie team should give its best performance of the season, play
ing its first game on the home floor, and has a fighting chance to win. Their 
biggest enemy, stronger even than the team they will face, is discouragement, 
caused by the loss of every game played to date. That discouragement can 
be dispelled in but one wayby hearing and seeing a big crowd of students 
rooting for them to win.
How about it? LETS TURN OUT WEDNESDAY NIGHT!* * * * * * *
The swimming team opens the season on Friday afternoon, meeting Pitt 
in the home pool. The plebe natators will combat the Panther frosh at the 
same time, so a good meet is looked for. The first event will start at 4:30. This is the initial Carnegie-Pitt swimming clash.* * * * * * *
The basket ball team will play Penn State here on Saturday, and with 
the advantage o a home floor and opponent tired from a game with Pitt the
night before, should turn the tables on the winner of last Saturdays bout.
ATTENTION, PLEBES!
Coach Allison wants more candidates for the freshman basketball teain. Any men with experience who entered school at the  
beginning of the second semester, or who were in school and  
did not report, are earnestly requested to see the coach or man- - 
ager at the gym any afternoon at * 
4:30. Candidates should bring  
equipment with them.
SCOTCHMEN AWAIT
PANTHER INVASION
TOMORROW NIGHT
(Continued From Page One.) 
made an excellent showing. High and 
Kilgore also showed up to good ad
vantage but always play under a seri
ous size handicap. White assumed 
the stellar role in the defensive but 
could not keep pace with Delp and 
, Reillys shooting in the second half.
Both theams displayed poor foul 
shooting, Tech making only three out 
of seven attempts and State six out.of 
13. Techs field goal shooting also was 
poor, but the Tartans might have had 
a much higher score with a fair break 
in the luck. Shots that seemed cer
tain to drop in rimmed the hoop re
peatedly and cost further opportuni
ties to score on rebounds.
The lineup:
Carnegie Tech23. Penn State43.
Brown ...................F....................... Delp
Harpster ........ .F.............. Reinhokl
Bond .....................C................... Reilly
White (Cap.) -----G. Vonnieda (Cap.)
Hitchcock ............G............... Lungren
Scoring: Field goals  Carnegie:
Harpster 4, Brown 2, Bond 2, White, 
Hitchcock; Penri State: Delp S,
Reilly 5 Vonnieda 2, Reinhold, Hamas, 
Lungren.
FoulsReilly 4, Vonnieda 2, Lungr'en, Harpster, White, Hitchcock.
SubstitutionsCarnegie Tech: Letzelter for Hitchcock, Kilgore for 
Brown, High for Letzelter. Penn 
'S'tate: Brownstein for Reilly, Hamas
for Delp, Jacobson for Reinhold, 
Baron for Vonnieda, Wilson for Ljingren.
RefereeGeisel.
UmpireTurik.
HARVARD DINNER PLATES
WILL ARRIVE IN MABCH
Frosh Lose By One Basket 
Made As Gun Ends Game
SWIMMING SEASON 
TO OPEN ON FRIDAY
Friday, February 10, at 4:30 the 
swimming season at Carnegie will open 
when the Tartan tankmen swim their 
rivals from Pitt. The Pitt Frosh will 
be the guests of the Plaid Plebes at 
the same time. That Pitt has a strong 
team this year, was shown when they 
beat the Army in the Armys own 
pool. It is expected that such an at
traction will bring out a larg attend
ance. The student pass book contains 
a ticket of admission to this event.
Due to Carnegies late entry into 
this sport, it has been a difficult task 
to arrange a schedule. Many schools 
have their schedules made up two or 
three years in advance. A return 
meet with Pitt h&s been arranged for 
March 17. An out-of-town trip with 
the team meeting Rutgers and New 
York University had been tentatively 
scheduled for March i) and 10. Rut
gers, however, fell down on their part 
of the contract. Unless some team 
may be scheduled to take their place, 
the trip will be abandoned. It is the 
hope of managers Hughes that some 
other opponent may be secured and he 
is making every effort to bring this 
about. . Westminster is another pos
sible opponent for later in the sea
son.
So far, the Plebes liave scheduled 
two meets. The first is next Thurs
days contest with Pitt and the second 
comes Saturday, February 11 In the 
Tech pool at 2:30. The visitors will 
be the University Schopl of Cleveland. 
Arrangements have been completed 
for the Tech Plebes to swim in the 
Cleveland schools pool next season. 
Manager Woods also has dates pend
ing with Schenley, Peabody, and 
South Hills.high schools.
About twenty men are reporting for 
each team pn practice nights and are 
showing up quite satisfactorily. For 
the varsity, 'Sangster, Bush, T. C. 
Wray, R. C. Wray, Hobe Blazitis, Basler, and Fuller are doing especially 
well while Beach, Okason, William
son, and King are outstanding among 
the Plebes. Von.Ende will be availa
ble this semester and should materi
ally increase the teams strength. 
^Eligibility lists have not been for
warded to the various managers so 
it is not known whether any losses 
will be suffered through the scholastic 
inabilities of the men.
The Freshman team suffered a very 
bad break last Saturday night at 
Penn State. The chance of playing 
an extra , period and possibly winning 
the game was wrested from them In 
the last second of play when a State 
forward took a long shot at the 
basket. As the ball was in the air 
the gun went off. Following the course 
outlined by the shooter, the sphere 
swished through the net without 
touching the rim, making the score 30 
to 2S in favor of State. This is the 
second bad break the Yearlings have 
experienced, their first happening 
earlier in the season when they were 
beaten In a similar manner by one 
point.
However, despite the defeat, it was 
the best game they have played so far 
and Coach Allison was very well 
pleased. The lineup was shifted for 
the first time in four games, and it 
took the Tech men awhile to become 
accustomed to one anothers play. The 
score at the end of the half was IS to 
10 with State College in the lead. Carl
son, one of the new men to join the 
squad since the mid-year exams, look
ed very good on both defense and of
fense. He got three field goals, two 
in succession at the start of the game, 
and if this style of play continues, he 
may earn a regular position. Fox 
jumped very well at center and was 
also good on defense.
Coach Allison requests that any 
new men in school or any men made 
eligible since the new semester, try 
out for basket ball, as there is still 
a chance of making the team. He can 
be seen any afternoon at four-thirty 
In the gymnasium. Bring your own 
equipment and report to him there.
The lineup:
Carnegie Tech Freshman
Penn State Frosh.
Davis ....................F............ Krumrine
Nease ....................F................... Meyers
Fox ........................C.............. Eastburn
Carlson ................G............. Rovnolds
Clark ....................G...............Williams
SubstitutionsBlack for Davis, L. 
Flanagan for Fox, Matess for Meyers, 
Dietrich for Williams.
Scoring: Field goalsDavis 1,
Black 4, Nease 3, L. Flanagan 2, Carl
son 3, Meyers 5, Matess 1, Eastburii 6, 
Dietrich 1.
Foul goalsNease 1, L. Flanagan -1, 
Meyers 2, Matess 1, Eastburn.
Harvard University.As part of the 
work of housing married students in 
the university, the Harvard Housing 
Trust has just authorized their archi
tects to proceed with the final plans 
for a new group of three buildings, 
which will contain about 30 apart
ments. The new buildings are being 
built to meet the increased demand by 
graduate students for smaller apart
ments.
Each apartment will have a large 
living room, a bed chamber, a bath 
and a kitchen, and will be essentially
Over 3,600 Dozen Sets Have Already 
Found Purchasers  4,000 Dozen 
Sets Coming From England
THIS CHART SHOWS
hoiv gas ivas regu
lated for two 
different jobs.
The first job required 
a temperature of 
1520 degrees Fh.
The next job de
manded a heat of 
1620 degrees Fh.
It took only fifteen 
minutes to increase 
the heat 100 degrees.
There is nothing sympathetic or sentimental about an 
automatic recording instrument. It just registers the 
facts, and lets them speak for themselves.
The facts revealed by this chart show that Gas Heat gives 
Control, Speed, Increased Production, Uniform Produc
tion, and No Spoilage; all elements that make for econ
omy in operation, and consequently increase in profit.
You would like information concerning 
the use of gas as a fuel in your own fac
tory, and can easily obtain it by writing 
to your own gas company, or to
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York City
YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS
the same as the existing apartments 
In Slialer Lane and Holden Green, 
which rent for $39 to $<15 a month.
Tho success of the first yoar of the 
plan for housing married students has 
prompted the now move. Tho new
building will provldo 21 apartments 
and two houses, giving a total of 134 
accommodations.
So, This is Leap Year.By BRIGGS l f 
. -------------------------------ill I
Students who are looking forward to 
the revival of an old custom in the 
University will soon have their wishes 
gratified, as the new Harvard dinner 
plates are nearly ready, and are ex
pected to arrive in this country some. time in March. Approximately 3,600 
dozen plates out of the original order 
for 4,000 dozen have already seen sold. 
Orders are still being received for the 
some three or four hundred dozen re
maining.
Whether or not more of the plates 
will be ordered after the original 4,050 
dozen has been sold, is still problem
atical, according to W. G. Morse, 99, 
purchasing agent for the University. 
But it is understood that if a number 
of graduates, sufficient to warrant the 
placing of an order in the neighbor
hood of 250 dozen should want the 
plates, the University might consider 
it.
Views of University on Plates.
The engravings are made from 
sketches by Professor K. J. Conant, 
15, of the School of Architecture and 
show 12 views of the University which 
has grown up to replace the College 
of 100 years ago. The first shows Uni
versity Hall, where the original plates 
were used. The second shows Massa
chusetts and Straus Halls. The third, 
Harvard Hall with Holden Chapel and 
Lionel Hall; the fourth, Harvard Hall
with University and Lionel Halls; the 
fifth, the Freshman dormitories; the 
sixth, Mower Hall and Holden Chapel; 
the seventh, Widener Library; the 
eighth, Langdell Hall; the ninth, tho 
Medical School; the tenth, the Library 
at the Business S'chool; the eleventh, 
Memorial Hall, and the twelfth, Hol
den Chapel, with Hollis Hall and 
Stoughton Hall.
The process by which the plates are 
being made is one similar to that em
ployed by makers of wood-cuts before 
the days of half-tones. The plates are 
to be finished in a series of handwork 
which, in the opinion of connoisseurs, 
will make them excellent samples of 
blue Staffordshire, and'valuable from 
the collectors standpoint.
The new plates will be exact repro
ductions of the old patterns, with the 
borders of fruits and flowers sur
rounding a picture of one of the build
ings.Harvard Crimson.
University of Washington.  Their 
checks failing to arrive from home on 
time, two University of Washington 
students set out to pawn a revolver. 
They considered this a very safe and 
sane way to help them over their fi
nancial crisis. But it landed them in 
police court.
As one of the students was present
ing the gun for inspection at a shoot
ing gallery, a passing patrolman 
sensed a holdup and hailed the youths 
into court on an open charge.
Upon confirmation of their explana
tion, the two suspects were released.
U rH8tn /=\t?Lf=
Tt>B 719 228CZRV ME NMGHT *SHEi cshovajs 6I6MS of Becoming
-Cl. ITI Ky*\ Pf-IT/M
Old West7he Smoother and Better Cigarette .... not a cough in a carload
 1928, P. Lorillord Co., Eat.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1928
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2f>00 
Pnbiinbed one every wcolc during tho sRW''WTV 
year by undergraduates of Carhcglo Inutltuto 
of Technology. Entered in tho Pittnburgh 
Pont Office au wcond-clann matter.
EDITORIAL STAFFHditor-in-Chief ...................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor.............Milton Cohen
News Editor..............Margaret Russell
Athletic Editor.....................Fred WoodsWomen's Editor.......................Jean Roy
Alumni Editor....................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bullluger William Rose
A. E. Fla)ier E. WeaverJohn Schnieder Meredith Stump
Helen Reed * Nathan MillerSara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. C. Ralafcon Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunlcer, Jr. Ina I-Iansell
E. Jarema 10. Schlesinger
T. Llppert u. Kann
W. W. Hay , j| McAtoer
S , C. Boyd
H. N Motener K ODonnellJ. Carpe K. BramHon
H. Levinson H. Whltehill
J. W. Eason R- B{irr ,H. Booth A. M. Fisher
M. Echoic J. E. White
N. Kline M. B. Maze
W. H. Worland C. R. Nelson
W. H. Martnolf C. F. Ackenheil
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMilllon
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants R. WehrleT. R. Zenc D. H. Genter
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants
G. Brahrnst A. FrankJ, Roth A. Haynes
G. C. Harbison C. E. Blass
G. Thompson S. Blueatone
B. Wedner I. LevinA. Teplltz S. Feigenbaum
M. Malinich J. P. Jones
R. W. Carter D. Seville
S. A. Bontonari
O/TlcItoom 12, Industrien Building. Oflica Hour/Monday to Thnrndayn, 12:30-1:20 
Pnpor made tip Friday, 12 :D0-0 :00.To intiure publication on tho succeeding 
Tueaday, newn items munti be in th student 
poat o(IVr<i or Tartan Offico before 4 :80 Thurnday.
Aftor OHice Hour call Schonley 1490, 
Shcnley 984G, chcnley 9211.
THE EDITORIAL CONTEST
An opportunity is offered under
graduates of Carnegie to make a name 
for themselves and for Carnegie Tech, 
through the editorial contest being 
sponsored by Pi Delta Epsilon, the 
national honorary journalistic frater
nity, of which Carnegie has a chapter.
The purpose of tho contest is to 
stimulate among college students tho 
expression of their thoughts and 
ideas concerning campus problems. 
Only too often do we hoar tho cry that 
our modern college youth Is a pleas
ure loving, pleasing seeking individ
ual, with1 utter incapability for any 
deep thought. It is only through free 
\ expression of our thoughts that wo 
'can disparage this opinion, and it is 
li.y moans of tho college pnpor that 
tlvii: is possible.
at college students do think, and 
tli it strongly, upon campfis prob1,| 11. | there can bo no doubt. One 
but to eavesdrop hero and
ire, or outer Into a discussion with 
JO or that student, and one finds that 
^radically all have definite, llxod 
opinions upon tho various questions 
arising on the campus.
It is true that wo find few students 
expressing themsolvos in a written or 
printed form, and it is to farther this 
movement that the contest was creat
ed.
During the year we have conducted 
a contributor's column, which has 
been supported in a more or loss me
diocre manner, but which has, at the 
same time, convinced us that there 
are those capable of putting their 
thoughts into written words. To 
these especially, we extend an invi
tation to try their hand at editorial 
writing.
Editorials written by students and 
submitted to- the Tartan, will be pub
lished if considered worthy by the 
editor, and will then be eligible for 
the contest. Details of the contest 
and awards may be obtained from last 
weeks edition of the Tartan.
H. L. G.
CROWDED CURRICULA
The following editorial has been 
clipped from the Holy Cross Toma
hawk because it is especially applica
ble to the state of things at. Carnegie.
When the college man makes his 
formal entrance into the world after 
graduation, he is naturally subjected 
to a minute and microscopic examina
tion. His mental makeup is the basis 
of consideration, so to speak. On the 
results of this inspection depends his 
status In the social and business circle 
of tho community in which he is de
sirous of residing. Far from being a 
cursory Inspection, this examination 
is a. rigid tost, goveronod by tho rules 
and convention of society. Too often 
a specialized, highly trained scientist, 
fails to achieve the honor and consid
eration due his mental capacity, be
cause ho is lacking in one essential. 
What that essential characteristic con
sists of cannot be definitely stated; 
it can only be descriptively defined as 
polish.
Whether or not the present day con
ception of the college man is iniquit
ous or erroneous is beside the ques
tion. The fact is that the college man 
is always judged, very often too se
verely. The first requisit to satisfy
the concepts of the majority is that 
the college man be well read. Not 
well read in the particular branch of 
work on which he has concentrated 
in his college career, but well read 
in an branches. It is token for grant
ed l/iat the average college man has 
a certain amount of learning. The, 
surgeon knows how to operate; the 
diagnostician is well versed in the in
tricacies of the maladies of the human 
system; the brain specialist processes 
of this animated body. All this Is 
taken for granted and does not consti
tute the criterion by which the college 
men are Judged. The criterion has Its 
foundation in matter extraneous to 
the curriculum.
Tho curriculum in most colleges, de
spite all averments to the contrary, 
Is becoming too specialized to permit 
of any but the most necessary read
ing. It stands to reason that when 
tho demands of a lecture schedule are 
too burdensome, when too much con
centrated research is required for a 
specific branch of study, very little 
time Is at the disposal of the student. 
It will be admitted that a great deal 
of leisure time is necessary if every 
man is to have a thorough acquaint
ance with the modern and ancient lit
erature, history and philosophy. And 
when the curricular demands of a 
system have become so great that 
they make it practically impossible 
for the student to do any reading, no 
one will deny that this system ,1s de
feating the very purpose of education.
We know that many men will not at
tend literature or philosophy lectures, 
because they are more Interested In 
economic or scientific work, but these 
men should bo given more opportun
ity to acquire the culture of literature 
and philosophy in their leisure hours.
j The Trouble Hunter I
Tickets for the Little Theater are 
supposed to be available for students 
at the Student Council Office. It was 
expected that tho number of these 
would be limited, but not that they 
should be nil. Students have llocked 
into the office by hundreds for the past 
few performances and have never ob
tained a ticket. They are becoming 
indignant and they have a right to be. 
If tickets are to be given at all they 
should cortainly be distributed from 
the Student Council Office. Whether 
the fault lies with Arts School authori
ties or agents of the student council 
it is difficult to determine, regardless 
of the source of the hitches in the or
der of things it should not go on an
other day.
CAPITAL-LABOR PEACE
PACTS RECOMMENDED
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
THISTLEDOWN
Legally Enforceable Agreements to 
Arbitrate Are Pronounced 
Feasible.
Now York.Labor troubles In tho 
United StatesJiavo usually grown out 
of employers' refusal to rocognizg the 
workers' right to organize and to car
ry on union activities, while wages, 
hours and working conditions have 
boon secondary factors, Julius H, Co
hen, chairman of tho American Bar 
Associations sub-committee which is 
proposing to provido legal sanction 
for voluntary arbitration pacts be
tween omployors and workors, assorts 
in a statement just made public.
Mr. Cohen listed ton conclusions 
which the committee has reached in 
its study of the relations between 
Capital and Labor. Chief among them, 
he montlonel tho Importance of volun
tary co-operation between workers 
and management, and assorts that 
"Communistic tendencies operate 
against self-government by employers 
and workers.
Contril Is Chief Issue.
The first conclusion refers to the 
reasons for conflicts in industry and 
asserts that the most important con
troversies have arisen not so much 
over details of hours, wages or work
ing conditions as over control of the 
industry, involving such issues as the 
closed.shop and recognition of unions. 
The others follow:
2That where organizations of 
workers are wisely led, there is a 
marked tendency on the part of the 
employers toward so-called collective 
agreements establishing arbitrational 
machinery in the industry; a sort of 
self-government or industry itself.
"3That where the organization of 
employes is more or less Communis
tic in its tendencies there is strong 
opposition on the part of the manage
ment to the attempts of the organiza
tion to gain a foothold in industry.
"4That even in the case of organ
ized international unions the presence 
of Communistic tendencies works to
ward a breakdown of the machinery of 
self-government established by both 
employers and workors.
"5That a relationship between 
unions' and employers associations, 
based upon contracts voluntarily 
made, is in tho public interest. En
couragement can and should be given 
to tho making and enforcement of such 
contracts.
In the Public Interest."
"GProcedure for voluntary submis
sion to arbitration made in advance 
of dispute, coupled with validity of 
awards made by tho aribtrators, is in 
the public Interest.
"7That as the law gives sanction 
to contracts for the arbitration of com
mercial disputes, the law should in 
similar manner give sanction and en
force ability to contract for the settle
ment of industrial disputes.
SThat in encouraging the volun
tary settlement of controversy by
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle
Thistledown thanks his friend, Bag
pipe for suggesting to him something 
to write about: examinations. Sitting 
around his fraternity house these last 
few days, Thistledown had already no
ticed the rather horrible effects of 
those last two dreadful weeks on his 
brothers. John Gump '29, for instance, 
was a gay hearted lad a month ago. 
Today he is only a shadow of his for
mer self. He drank coffee to keep 
him awake until three oclock four 
nights in succession. That last night, 
he has told me confidentially, he was 
so woozy when he tried to undress 
that he pulled his pajamas onto his 
shadow Instead of onto himself.
Philemon Flat '29, is another case 
in point. Philemon was a chubby lit: 
tie basso profundo three weeks ago. 
He was the joy of the House, and the 
bright little sunbeam of all our par
ties. Every day after lunch he used 
to sing In the Deeps of the Sea, and 
the, laughing basso aria from Robert 
the Devil. Today he is altogether al
tered. He has grown thin. He is no 
longer able to sing anything but tenor. 
I-Ie never sings anything after lunch 
now except the pieceB the glee club is 
practicing.
Maurice Cope, 33, has gone com
pletely to pieces. He staggered into 
the House after his last exam and col
lapsed into a rocking chair which hap
pened to have a weak leg. This broke 
and let him down onto the floor.
I When he got up he was as white as
I Pittsburgh snow. Just then some cite/ 
came in and said that he had heard 
from another plebe that Maurice had 
flunked math. Maurice turned white 
as a caila lily. We were sitting at the 
same bridge table, after dinner, when 
the Lowly Lambda of tho fraternity 
ambled up and began How about 
your points, Maurice? Are you going 
to make enough for initiation? Its 
really a pretty serious matter, as I 
hope you realize. Maurice was as 
white as Ivory soap. Thistledown is 
seriously concerned about his condi
tion. On one of those white washed 
traffic cross walks his invisibility
. might get him run over.
The authorities have decided, This
tledown is glad to report, to do some
thing about the situation. Physically 
exhausted boys who are nervous and 
mental wrecks give visitors too pecu
liar an impression of the school. 
Those in charge have decided to hire 
a competent psychiatrist. He will be 
furnished with enough equipment to 
give to each student before his exami
nations , an elaborate and complete 
test. Anyone whom the test seems to 
indicate is approaching mental wreck
age will be handled with every pre
caution. Those who show only slight 
symptoms of impending nervous dan
ger will be allowed to write their ex-1 
aminations between the dishes of 
good meals. In this way their minds 
will be distracted from the bother
some task before them. Those with 
more pronounced symptoms will be 
allowed to write their examination to 
the accompaniment of jazz orchestras, 
detraction from the subject in hand 
being again the purpose. Others will 
be permitted not to take any exami
nations whatever, and will be given 
in place of grades, Certificates of Men
tal Turbulence during Examinations. 
Carnegie will be the first college in 
the country to off^r such recognition 
for temporary intellectual incapabil
ity.
Thistledown publishes no letter this 
week, but he proposes to end his 
column1 with a loud grumble, and- he 
suggests that the reader interpolate 
as many d's and lis as he feels in
clined to. Why under the sun cant 
the Grill serve its hot food hot? At 
breakfast, why is the oatmeal and the 
coffee always lulce warm? During the 
breakfast rush, of all tlmess, these 
ought to be extremely hot. At night, 
why is the soup as if it had been 
diluted with Ice water, the boiled po
tatoes clammy, the oyster stew just 
slightly tepid, and the tea the tem
perature of ginger ale that has been 
exposed to a July sun. Thistledown 
calls upon whoever runs the Grill, and 
the Cook in the kitchen, to give him 
his hot foods hot.
BOOK REVIEW
NOTES ON AN AESTHETIC 
THEORY
Arti it would seem to me, Is, in sub
stance, emotional, tensely so. The in
tellectual check comes after the ini
tial impulse; and great art strives to 
preserve a balance between the two. 
But the initial urge is fundamental, 
founded as it is in feeling. You may 
retort that primitivism is then coin
cident and synonymous with this emo
tional foundation of art, pressing tha 
analogy to the point of forcing me to 
acknowledge an unnamed African 
sculptor of the mid-eighteenth cen
tury as an artist superior to Milton 
who had world knowledge at his dis
posal and who checked the sweep of 
his feeling by a masterful and cul
tured mind. I should not be forced 
into.such a position: I stop with the 
defense of the African sculptor who, 
unknowing but superstitious and feel
ing, gave expression to that feeling 
in his own way, an uncalculated 'way, 
one spontaneous, fresh, impulsive, but 
often tremendously moving; I stop 
with this defense of spontaneity, of 
freshness, of what, for the time being, 
I should call the lyric impulse, a feel
ing essential, terse, vivid.
agreements binding upon the partici
pants, the national bar is moving in 
line with its long established tradi- j 
tions and in harmony with the princi
ples of the United Stats arbitration 
law, which tlie association framed and 
for which it was sponsor, with the aid 
and co-operation of commercial organ
izations.
"9That the association lias an op
portunity, through its well-established 
contacts with business organizations, 
to bring about a better understanding 
of the problem, and In all probability 
to secure some advance in legal meth-1 
ods of approach.
10Great care should be taken not 
to drive too fast but to make use of I 
the experience of men who have spec-1 
ial knowledge of the whole subject. 
Christian Science Monitor.
Keats, a supreme artist, wras pri
marily lyric in a way tliat Milton 
never could have been lyric. Shelley, 
Shakespeare, Blake, and possibly 
Herrick in this field of poetry feltx 
strongly, and were gifted beyond 
other beings in being able to put that 
feeling into a universal, intelligible, 
rythmical form. And the world found 
satisfaction; of all the artist-poets, 
these portrayers of lyric feeling seem 
most likely to endure. This impulse 
is upheld on tlie contention that feel
ing when it does strike that thing 
which people continually call spirit is 
more universal than any intricate 
thought process. In China the impulse 
was: today, hundreds of years later, 
this sensuous aspect of this poetry is 
that which exists for the Occident.
In painting, too, I am concluding 
that the water color, the lithograph, 
the sketch and the results of other 
mediums of small expression are 
accomplished through the same in
tense desire, attain the same fresh
ness, evidence the same unstudied 
display of the innate and true ability 
of the artist. The sketches and small 
work of Rodin, Belows, Davies, Kent, 
Mestrovic, or John have frequently 
more rhythm, more vitality, more 
vivid beauty than the larger canvases 
on which the artist have worked for 
hours and months. For often, after 
all, technique may be learned, where 
feeling never can.
The short story may, and, I think, 
should be, approached by this stand
ard (if it is a standard) of artistry. 
OHenry, coming late in the develop
ment of the short-story, did much 
harm to the genre. Form, come of 
irony perhaps, meant more and more 
to him as his career waxed. Poe, 
Hawthorne, Irving, all earlier, stressed 
singleness of mood, unity, intensity of 
feeling. That composite attitude was 
the pne on which the genre justified 
itself as an art form, demanded worldacknowledgement of itself. Since 
OHenry the path has returned to 
these pioneers; there has been, if anyThe marvels of science are illimit
able, verily. What day passes that 
a new realm of experience is not 
probed, a new manifestation of natural 
l%w unfolded to the light. No longer 
do we cringe in supine, aweful terror 
before the working of the unknown 
forces that animate and rule th^ uni
verseon the other hand we tread 
gingerly and expectantly toward the 
distant penumbra of knowledge, con
fident that its mysteries too will van
ish before the instruments of search 
and research which science has elab
orated today.
Mental experience as a field of sci
entific exploration has however proved 
vexing and posited tortuous, evanes
cent problems more difficult of solu
tion. The subtle, fleeting events or 
phenomena of the mental life are of 
a stuff altogether too tenuous to ad
mit of a definite resolution into the 
terms of physics or chemistry or 
biology. The prime difficulty, of 
course, is that the psychologist seeks 
to , portray the inner life by the use of 
its own processesthat is, the mind 
of man must peer within itself to 
yield its store of secrets. Objectivity 
can hardly be secured to tne degree 
as to provide the handsome results 
of the other sciences.
It will have to be an extremely sen
sitized medium which can measure 
and weigh the imagery, phantasy and 
machinery of the mental life. How is 
one to miror or reckon the units of 
perception, decision, imagination, and 
in what lies the clew to the play of 
fancy or of caprice and the stupendT 
ous significance of stark originalit3r 
and all the other outcroppings of j 
thought? One must hold ones! 
breath ifo'r fear of disturbing such | 
delicate instruments as shall perform 
these magician's feats. We shall have 
to remain content perhaps with the 
tales told by poets, the adumbrations 
caught by story-tellers. Perhaps the 
alembis concocted by the genius of 
hypersensitive minds can record or 
precipitate symbols and signs at least 
of the psychic life.
Recently, however, a German psy
chologist succeeded in elaborating an 
instrument which records the speed of 
thought in its simpler aspects, as the 
reaction-time of sensations stimulated 
by certain external agents. By the 
new device, it may now be determined, 
for example, with some exactitude, 
the time required for an external 
stimulus as light to yield a conscious 
sensation. This time is measured in 
sigmas, or thousandths of a second.
In fact, the time elapsed may be 
measured in the ten-thousandths of a 
second. Offhand, it might be sup
posed that the stimulus and response 
are instantaneous but such is not the 
case. It has been estimated that from 
200 to 300 sigmas elapse upon an optic
al stimulusthis must be therefore the 
telegraphy behind the eye, so to speak 
and 150 to 800 sigmas upon an 
acoustic stimuluswhich may be re
garded as a sign of the efficiency of 
what, in our lighter moments, might 
he termed the Western Union of the Ear.
Naturally, these measures are only 
averages as the individual factor 
causes great variations and can wreak 
havoc with any scientific statement 
for that matter. Circumstances also 
play a mischievous part. But yet the 
applications of ,this technique of 
thouglit-measurement may prove to 
be revolutionary. In fact, in Germany 
the speed of thought in all its com
plexity figured prominently in a trial 
of a railroad conductor who failed to 
avoid a wreck when the impending 
danger might have been avoided 
shall we say, by a few sigmas. Twen
ty-two seconds were available to give 
the warning and the question revolved 
about the point whether this time wa* 
sufficient to allow the conductor, (or 
his "mind), to perceive the danger, 
to remember his duty, to decide to 
set the emergency brake and to act. 
Exact experiment established the reaction-time at four seconds at the ut
most. The conductor was therefore 
found guilty and duly sentenced.
In the class-room this technique 
might have splendid results. Grades 
of the ordinary nature might be en
tirely obviated or rather adjusted in 
the light of prior studies of the stimu
lus-time reactions of the student.. 
The individual variations in any class 
are great, as all do not hear the words 
at the same time nor "see the ex
planations at the same moment. It 
might be possible to modify units and 
p. q's in the light of sigmas which 
measure the superficial at least, 
thought-ability of the student. Per
haps ones sigmas may then be in
creased by the proper kind of train
ing. A person, taking thought will 
now be spoken of in the new style, as 
"running through his sigmas.
Irrespective of the particular field 
to which one is to devote himself in 
the future, it is quite obvious that be
fore 3rou can "know your onions, ac
cording to the vernacular, you must 
also know your sigmas.
NATHAN MILLER.
thing, an even greater freedom in re
spect of tone; and the result is that 
several of the sincerest, most genuine 
literary artists of today turn to this 
medium, the prose sketcu, seldom 
more than six or seven thousand 
words in length, brilliant, vigorous 
bits of life, of beauty, of humor, of 
iropy.
Of these literary figures, A. E. Coppard is by no means the least evident 
for his artistry.
JANE COWL SURPRISED THAT 
LINES OF "ROAD TO ROME 
SHOULD BE CUT IN BOSTONACTING MORE PART OF 
WOMEN THAN OF MEN
I should place him near the top of 
the platitudinous ladder of success. 
In England there Is no one who 
senses life more surely, more human
ly, more passionately; there is no one 
to whose genius the transitoriness of 
the lyric feeling is a more essential 
part. In The Field of Mustard, his 
latest volume of tales, there are more 
than three hundred pages of testi
mony to this fact.
Refreshingly, boredom has no place 
in his attitude: there is an almost 
ferocious intensity to make of each 
story a chunk of epitomized actuality, 
there is biterness, but it is the bitter
ness come of understanding unattained by disillusion, never Satire, 
harsh, cpld or mathematical. If ever 
chere was the warmth of bitter life, 
not only of people but furiously of 
flowers and trees and winds, that 
warmth flows furiously through alLof 
his stories.
Coppard views ugly people not as 
phenomena but as ugly, alive crea
tures. That quality simulates true 
sympathy, minus plebian condescen
sion. The three sere women in The 
Field of Mustard story itself have ac
tuality. Types at first, tlley unfold 
into three dimensional entities 
through the manipulation of conflicts. 
The plots and the situations', to be 
sure, are important in this story as in 
all his others only insofar as they 
furnish setting for the persons. Even 
the use, not symbolic so much as pure
ly atmospheric, of the mustard motif 
is to buoy up the characters; a sour 
scent rising faintly from its yellow 
blooms that quivered in the wind, a 
use to bring directly to the senses of 
the reader these three bags fighting 
over the memory of a man.
And so with the other stories, the 
other personages: all of them seem 
fresh, new creations done in a talent 
rooted in fundamental power.
Coppard, it would seem, is to be re
joicingly shared by a society civilized 
enough to recognize art in its essence, 
to realize this breath-giving and 
breath-taking appeal of sheer powrer 
of seeing quickly and gliteringly and 
surely into tlie core of life, and, of 
course, of literature.
E. W. W.
Eugene, Ore.Alumni 'of the Uni
versity of Oregon recently followed 
the example of Ohio State alumni and 
gathered to discuss the question of 
poor athletic records at Oregon. The 
Daily Emerald, undergraduate publi
cation, censored the graduates for 
their action.
Most men think themselves too 
handsome ever to become successful 
stage actors, asserted Jane Cowl, star 
of "The Road to Rome, by R. E. Sher
wood '17, last night to a Crimson re
porter as she sat in her dressing room 
dressed as Amytis, her character in 
the play.
"Too many women fail for this very 
reason. They think that all tney have 
to do is to have a pretty face, get up 
and say a cute line or two, and then go 
draw a large salary at the end of the 
week.
"A few men have become great act
ors, such as Mr. J. Barrymore, but act
ing seems to be more a womans pro
fession. It is more a part of us than 
it is with men. But to be a good actor 
one must have more than mere ability. 
A willingness, to sweep the floor, if 
such is necessary, the ability to go 
night after night without sleep, and 
above all, patience, all are requisitesto success. Why, I could make every 
one of my costumes right now if I had 
to, and I did not learn that art after 
I had advanced, but when I was 
struggling along with a few lines in 
some small part.
By the way, I hear that people 
think 'The Road to Rome' is somewhat 
naughty, but either I am too wrapped 
up in the producing of the drama, or 
else I am just different; I cannot see 
why after our first performance here in 
Boston they should cut the lines, and 
what choice bits they, were, too! I do 
not mean to criticize the Boston audi
ence at all, for contrary to most peo
ples opinion, I find that it is very re
ceptive. Maybe it is because there are 
so many students out there among the 
people, I .always enjoy playing before 
students anyway. They seem to be so 
much livelier, and are not forever 
criticizing an actresss nose for being 
a trifle too long, or herself for being 
too expressive in her. acting.Har
vard.
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
Dr. Oscar Paret, a German archae
ologist, claims to have found in Suabia 
a boat which has been buried under 
six feet of earth for 3,000 years. The 
boat was found tied at the end of one 
of three long wrharves w^iich ran back 
to the vicinity of the remains of a 
number of houses.
The boat is a dugout canoe about 
fifteen feet long, hollowed out of the 
trunk of a giant oak. The sides, Dr. 
Paret says, were shaved down to a 
surprising thinness. Several paddles 
were found in it. A number of bronze 
objects found in the turf around It 
show that the boat is a relic of the 
Bronze Age, about 1000 B.C., contem
porary with the Siege of Troy and the 
reign of Solomon in Jerusalem.
