GIRLS GLEE CLUB 
HOME CONCERT 
TOMORROW NITE
PUPPET 
TO BE ON SALE 
TUESDAY, APRIL 3
VOL. XVII. NO. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1923
FORMER DEAN H 
TAKES CHARGE 
OF NEW DEPT.
CARNEGIE GIRLS GLEE 
CLUB CONCERT TO BE 
HELD TOMORROW NITE
: ALPHA ALPHA NU GRANTED NATIONAL CHARTER **********
Clifford B. Connelly, Former 
Director of College of In
dustries, Returns After an 
Absence of Over Two Years
FORMER LABOR HEAD
Clifford B. Connelley, former Dircetor of the College of Industries, 
has recently returned from the State 
Cabinet to take charge of the newly 
created Department of Industrial Re
lations. This department will main
tain and' endeavor to establish closer 
relations between the various indus
tries and the school, to benefit the 
former by research and scientific ad
vice and help the students by bring
ing them in closer association with 
their future work.
For this Dean Connolley is emi
nently suited. The Dean was one of 
the original committee in the forma
tion of the school, having read a 
paper before the Engineers Society of 
Western Pennsylvania regarding what 
he thought was the kind of education 
should be given in this district. It 
attracted the attention of the Com
mittee on Plan and Scope, and he 
was selected as one of the three men, 
Ex-president Hammerschlag and Di
rector Williston of Wentworth Insti
tute being the other two. The sue? 
cess of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology was partly through his efforts 
as this was once said -of him, That 
his head, mind and 'body have been 
singularly devoted to the develop
ment of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
** Since its very beginning Dean Con
nelley, the senior dean, was head of 
the School of Industries. It has been 
his work to evolve a system of edu
cation in accordance with the Car
negie idea which would make it ap
peal at once to the workers in indus
try, the employer of labor, the so
ciologist and the educator. The hon
ors that have come to him from all 
walks of lifethe civic, educational, 
business and socialare evidence 
enough of the recognition that his un
selfish service has won. He holds the 
admiration of all students, alumni and 
all with whom he comes in contact 
and was always sought for advice 
and counsel.
When Governor Sproul took the 
(Continued on Page Three)
.*!? The Girls Glee Club Concert* 
j v wall be held tomorrow night in v 
I v Carnegie Lecture Hall. Alumni, * 
v we are looking for you to make * 
*> a big showing at this concert. * 
*!* There is going to be some sp'len- v
? did and unusual musio. We know *> 
I * you already appreciate the abil- *:* 
i < ity of Carnegie Tech girls along * 
j v other linesnow give us the v 
I chance to show you what we v
v can do in this. You wont be 
j *> disappointed. Carnegie Lecture v
? Hall, S p. m. Dance in the ?> 
1* Union at 9:30. Dont forget it. v 
v Lecture Hall, S p. m. Dance in ?
? the Union at 9:30. Dont for- *>
? get it. *
DEAN BREED ENTER
TAINS AT LUNCHEON
Priscilla Allison, President of 
Senior Class, and Miss 
Shade Speak
Miss Breed entertained at a luncli: 
eon at the Twentieth Century Club 
on Saturday, March 17th.
The luncheon was given in memory 
of Miss Parry who was former honor
ary member of the class of 1923 and 
head of the English Department.
The guests numbered about 90, 
those present being the members of 
the class of 1923 of Margaret Morri
son Carnegie College and the personal 
friends of Miss Parry, including Mrs. 
Vermorken, Miss Demorest, Messrs. 
Long and Gott, Dr. Esquerre and Col. 
Day.
The table decorations were sham
rocks, with center pieces of flowers 
tinted green, while candles of the 
same color were used for lighting.
Following the luncheon, speeches 
were made by Priscilla Allison, Presi
dent of the Senior Class, Helen 
iSchade. and members of the faculty 
with Miss Breed acting as toastmlstress.
Alpha Alpha Nu and 
Tau Beta Pi Elect
Honorary Societies 
Eleven Men
Pledge
Two honorary societies, Alpha Al
pha Nu, and Tau Beta Pi announced 
the election of several new members 
last week.
Alpha Alpha Nu is the journalistic 
honorary, and this award is given for 
distinguished service on the school 
publications.
Tau Beta Pi is the scholastic hon
orary fraternity of the College of En
gineering. A man must be the high
est Sophomoie in the upper eighth of 
his Junior class or upper quarter of 
his Senior class to be elected.
Alpha Alpha Nu announced the fol
lowing eiections at General Assembly, 
March 14: Chas. N. Hollingsworth,
Chas. Cooper, Kenneth L. Arnold, 
Harry F. Dieter, Bernard M. Broudy, 
Teasdale Barney.
The elections to Tau Beta Pi were 
announced at the Science Stag in the 
Carnegie Union, March 17. The fol
lowing men being honored:
H. A. Baugh, P. C. Cromwell, J. F. 
Trembly, J. F. Lamb, F. W. Bremmer.
Carnegie Y. W. Girls Hold 
Dinner in M. M. Cafeteria
A feeling of good fellowship pervad
ed the atmosphere when the Carnegie 
Y. W. C. A. entertained Pitt P. C. W., 
and Industrial Girls of Y. W. C. A. at 
dinner held in Margaret Morrison 
Lunch Room last Thursday evening. 
A touch of gayety was added by the 
presentation of a. birthday cake to 
Miss Kennedy of the Margaret Morri
son faculty. Dean Ames of Pitt, Dean 
Brown of Carnegie Tech, Miss Ken
nedy of the Margaret Morrison fac
ulty, and two of the industrial girls 
gave short talks. Dean Brown wel
comed the girls. Miss Kennedy spoke 
on the necessity of keeping a bud
get.
Dean Ames stated that the indus
trial girls were the means of bringing 
together the girls from three colleges. 
She brought out a point that reminded 
the Pitt and Tech girls of something 
that had happened not so very many 
years ago. She said that colleges 
sometimes have differences and that 
getting together and talking about 
things that they have in common, 
rather than about the differences, 
often results in smoothing out the dif
ferences. The two industrial girls 
told about the summer course that is 
given for industrial girls at Bryn 
Mawr College. They were good ex
amples of what this course does for 
the girls.
Summer School Schedule 
Includes New Subjects
The preliminary announcements of 
Summer School at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology indicate that an even 
wider variety of courses will be 
offered this year, than formerly. The 
school will open June 25 for eight 
wesks, closing August 17. Six week 
courses will begin July 2 to continue 
to August 10. In addition to these, a 
four weeks intensive course in Coal 
Mining will again be given, to start 
on June 25.
Many new features are included in 
the program of the session, some of 
which enlarge the scope of course sue 
cessful in past years, and others in
crease the variety. Of special im
portance is the announcement that 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege will be opened to give courses in 
Home Economics to teachers. These 
courses will be given under the pro
visions of the Smith-IIughes act, and 
no tuition feTe will be charged for any 
of the Home' Economics subjects, 
which will include sewing, costume, 
design, nutrition, marketing and meal 
planning, special methods In voca
tional home economics, and practice 
house.
In the Music Department, many of 
the courses have been enlarged in re
sponse to the demands of former 
years. The course in Technique of 
grebes trail Tn strum nfs, which was 
one of the outstanding successes when 
first established last summer, has 
been enlarged in its scope to take up 
three times as many hours allotted to 
it in its first year. The purpose of 
this course is to give a sufficient 
knowledge of the technique of the in
struments to enable fo supervisor of 
music to handle problems in connec
tion with the organization and instruc
tion of high school orchestras.
An innovation to be introduced this 
summer will be to require all regis
tered students in the Music Depart
ment to attend either the chorus re
hearsals, or the orchestra rehearsals. 
All vocal students must attend chorus 
rehearsal periods, and all students of 
instruments will be expected to use 
(Continued on Page Two.)
PROGRAM FOR TODAY'S 
ASSEMBLIES ANNOUNCED; 
COM El YOU ARE NEEDED
 SciencoRoom 218, nt 11:30. ?
Illustrated lecture by Profes sor Crabtree, head ol! Motullur- *
- gical and Mining Department, 
 on the "Romance of Iron and 
- Steel.
 IndustriesRoom 104, at 12:30. 
Eddie Stewart, downtown 
 printer, will give a talk on com- ? 
 mereiai advertising. Music by  
1 Plebe Orchestra. Plebe trial. 
ArtsLlttlo Theater, nt 11:30...*
I v Sketch by a trio of Dranvats 
Mervis, Albright, and Thorne.
FOURTHANNUAL 
CAMPUS WEEK 
MAY 24, 25, 26
Hamilton and Willard Work
ing' on Annual PlayQueen 
of Mardi Gras to be Elected 
by GirlsSweepstakes Fri.
ALUMNI HOMECOMING
Sitting, left to rightH. Bowman, D. C. Porterfield, C. E. Landefeld, 
otromquist, J. K. Matter, T. S. Repplier, J. D. Franklin.
Standing, left to rightJ. A. Berno, J. M. Cooper, J. D. Mawhinney, E,
Pi Delta Epsilon, National Collegiate 
Honorary Journalism Society Ac
cepts Alpha Alpha Nu
INSTALLATION IN NEAR FUTURE
Undergraduate activities at Car
negie Tech received further recogni
tion when Pi Delta Epsilon, assem
bled in National Convention at Apple
ton, Wisconsin, March 9, 10, and 11, 
granted a charter to Alpha Alpha Nu, 
local honorary fraternity in journal
ism, founded on the campus in No
vember 1919, while Carnegie was re
covering from the effects of the 
World War.
Pi Delta Epsilon, founded at Syracuse University in the fall of 1909, is 
the Honorary Collegiate Journalism 
Fraternity, recognizing by election to 
membership men who have done work 
of outstanding character on college 
publications. Starting with the ad
mission of chapters at Colgato Uni
versity and at the University of Mich
igan in 1916-17, an expansion was be
gun which has been very nearly with
out precedent in tho history of col
lege Greek letter fraternities. Today
H. D. Sonneman, J. D. Evans. V. H. 
A. Brand, H. F. Simpson, R. B. Keller.
Pi Delta Epsilon numbers thirty-four 
active chapters, thirty-three of which 
are distributed through twenty-two 
states and the District of Columbia 
while one is located at the University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
Geographically, the chapters aro 
scattered from the Atlantic to tho Pa
cific, and from Canada to Texas, mak
ing tho fraternity truly national and 
by it;s choice of seats of learning 
making it truly representative of un
dergraduate efforts in tho fields of 
journalism and student publications. 
With the idoal ol service as Its reason 
for oxistonce, Pi Dolta Epsilon does 
not hesitate to enter the smaller 
schools of learning, provided thoy can 
meet the requirements that tho enroll
ment number five hundred or bettor, 
and that tho undergraduate news or
gan bo published at least woolcly. Tho 
chapter roll today numbers collogos 
(Continued on Page Four.)
NEW CONSTITUTION IS 
ADOPTED BY JOURNAL
Tau Gamma Phi Will Go 
Delta Tau Delta April 6
The Tau Gamma Phi fraternity will 
be formally installed as the Delta 
Beta chapter of Delta Tau Delta fra
ternity, on' April 7. The installation 
will be preceded by a formal dance 
at the Rittenhouse on April 6, and 
will be followed by a Deita Tau 
Delta banquet at the; Schenley on the 
night of the installation. Open house 
will be held at the chapter house on 
Sunday, April 8.
FACULTY HONOR DR. BAKER 
AT AN INFORMAL RECEPTION 
HELD TUESDAY IN FINE ARTS
An informal reception in honor of 
Dr. Baker was given March 13, by 
the Faculty Club. Dinner was served 
at 6:30 in the Margaret Morrison 
Cafeteria.
Later, tho students in the Drama 
Department presented a short play in 
the Arts Theater, and Music Depart
ment students provided musical num
bers.
The Carnegie Technical Journal re
cently adopted a new constitution 
which has been accepted by the Stu
dent Activities Board with a few res
ervations as to the distribution of in
signia.
Briefly the constitution provides for 
an editor-in-chief, managing editor, 
technical editor, and eight associate 
editors on the editorial staff, and a 
business manager, circulation man
ager, advertising manager, and public
ity editor on the business staff who 
are to be elected by the retiring 
staff.
By carefully outlining the duties of 
these and appointing numerous as
sistants it is hoped to more evenly 
distribute tho work and thereby Im
prove the quality of the publication,
Heretofore, tho entire work baa 
rested on a few who did it all rather, 
than attempt the unpopular and diffi
cult task of finding some other staff 
member upon whom to shift a portion 
of the burden.
By the new method of distribution 
it is hoped to overcome this perni
cious system and give every member 
such a share of work as he can prop
erly do, and thereby definitely place 
the responsibility.
$385 Netted By Drive of 
Student Friendship Fund
1 *1* *! -I- *3 *1* *1* *1* -I- *
CHEER LEADERS CLASS v 
 HELD IN SCOBELL HALL ON * 
MONDAYS AND THURSDAYS *
I wish to announce through 
:? your columns that tho cheer- *
 leaders will start this woelc. *5*
 Classes tor <thtf oxporloncod men *!
 will be hold twice a week In ?>
 the Sc,obeli Hall Olub Rooms, *:
 on Mondays at 4:30 p. m., and *
 on Thursday at 5:30 p. m. This *
 time does not conillct with any
 schedules and so I would like 
 to see all the meit who worked
 last year, come out.
In regard to the mon. who
 have hot worked at Carneglo, I *
 will say that just as soon aa
 onough men show their willing noss to come out, a class will
 be started for them. At every
 class each man will bo given *
 personal attention. Experience
 is not necessary, Inasmuch as *
 somo of our best men have *
 been developed . through hard *:
- work and not past experience.
Graduation, and tho fact that *
 several men are leaving school *
 in Juno, is going to be a severo
 blow to the cheer leading, for
 this reason it behooves every *
 Carnegie Tech man and woman -J* j
 to get behind this movement ?J'
 and help us along. :
 (Signed) ANDY OLSEN, *| 
Head Cheer Leader,
?
SPEAKER OUTLINES 
ROAD TO SUCCESS
President of Baldwin Locomo
tive Works Addresses 
Assembly
GIRLS GLEE CLUB CON
CERT TOMORROW NIGHT
Tomorrow night will bo llio big 
night for tho girls of Carneglo aa 
one of tho best girls organizations 
on Llio campus, tho Girls ,Gloo Club 
and tho Stringers will give Ho 
home concert In tho Carnegie Lec
ture Hall and a dance in tho Union.
This year's season for tho Girls 
Gloo Chib has been the most active 
in its history. Sovoral concerts 
have boon given and concerts In Sewtckloy, Homewood and GJalrton 
havo boon booked for tho month of 
April. The SU-lugora havo become 
quite popular In both tho men's and 
womens schools, having played In 
tho regular assemblies oL' tho various 
colleges. In rosponso to the popu
lar demand the Strlngors havo been 
glvon an Important placo on the pro
gram as shown by Llio following pro
gram :
1a. Alma Mater. I>. Dreaming. 
Gleo Club.
2Stringers.
3a. Murmuring Zophyrs. b. Two 
Clocks. Gloo Club.
4Selection, Mens Gleet Club.
5Garden of Flowers. Glee Club.
6Stringers.
7a. Lady Chloo. b. Thoy moot 
(Continued on Pago Three)
The Student Friendship Fund drive, 
held last Wednesday and Thursday, 
March 14-15, netted a total of three 
hundred and eighty-five dollars for 
relief among students in Europe and 
the Near East. The drive was conj 
ducted by a four schools committee 
of sixteen members, assisted by sixtyfour other undergraduates interested; 
in the work. Great credit is due all j 
the workers for their interest, and! 
the chairman of the committee wish- j 
es to take this opportunity to thank i 
all those who gave time and effort in j 
an endeavor to raise this money.
Of the total sum collected, the Mar-1 
garet Morrison co-eds contributed bet- j 
ter than one-third, Arts collected the i 
next largest amount, while Engineer
ing and Industries trailed last.
The committee in charge of the 
work was: Edw. A. Brand, Chairman; 
George Allison, Gretchen Hoffman, 
Dorothy Schinallhorst, Vic Stromquist from Arts; Dave Gottwals, R. 
E. Hughes, Bruce Powrie, F. T. 
Phelps from Industries; Lillian Co
wan, Hortense Purdy, Blair Jessop, 
Isabel Sowash from Margaret Morri
son ; and Paul Scliucker, T. N. Griggs,! 
Ed Gilbert, and Douglas Schoerke 
from Engineering.
Six Sixty Science Studes 
See Startling Stag Stunt
The annual 'Science Stag Smoker 
was held last Saturday night. Each 
of the four classes and the faculty 
put on a stunt in competition for 
prizes.
The Freshman stunt opened the 
smoker, it was a desert drama, In 
which a bareback dancer and a camel 
figured prominently. The camel, con
sisting of two men covered with a 
blanket, and equipped with a very 
realistic head and neck, was a great 
success. The part of the villainous 
sheik was very appropriately played 
by J. D. Graff.
The Sophomores were next, and 
they offered a playlet dealing with 
the erection of the Seniors fence, in 
which, incidently the national frater
nities came in for a mild roasting. 
Scrimgeous, as Jack Evans, played 
his part to perfection.
There followed an announcement of 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Representatives Attend 
Episcopal Church Meet
Miss Dorothy Schell of tho Drama 
Department andj Jeffrey of the Print
ing Department returned Monday 
from Philadelphia where they repre
sented Carnegie Tech at the Inter
collegiate' Church Conference of the 
Province of Washington, at the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, March 36-18.
They were accompanied by Miss 
Elizabeth Seville of the University 
of Pittsburgh. The representatives 
of Carnegie and Pitt were sent 
through the kindness of nearby Epis
copal churches to find out the scope 
of the work and the possibility of 
organizing chapters here of the Na
tional Student Council of the Epis
copal Church.
Mens Musical Clubs Will 
Give Concert at P. C. W.
Formal Dance Given By 
Forbes Hall Girls Friday
CARNEGEIRNEACRL GSEUIB
WILL BE, HELD FRIDAY, MAY 11.
PLANS ALMOST COMPLETED
The Interfraternity Formal Dance 
which Is the official social function of 
all Carnegie Tech fraternities will be I 
held in the ballroom of the Schenley 
Hotel on the evening of Friday, May | 
11.
Tom McDonald of the committee in i 
charge reports that plans are being 
worked out to make this dance one j 
of the best of such affairs. As yet j 
no definite information concerning the j 
dance other than the date and place is , 
available.
Seventy couples attended the for
mal dance given by Forbes Hall on 
Friday night.
One of the features of tho evening 
was the elimination dance, the prize 
being received by Hostess Purdy and 
Ted Morgan. At twelve oclock" sup
per was served and dancing contin
ued until one o'clock.
The houso wd, attractively dec
orated with palms, smilax and cut 
flowers, and the music w$s furnished 
by Harrison-Holi ins Orchestra.
The committee in charge consisted 
of Mary Jane McCreight, chairmanEllen Eyman, Edith Warren and 
Mary Stuempfle.;
Tho road to success in tho indus
trial world, as in every other line of 
endeavor, is paved by initiative, in
tegrity, porsoveranco, and thrift, said 
Mr. Samuel Vauclain, President.of the 
Baldwin Locomotivo Works, of Phil
adelphia, in his address to tho studonts at tho General Assembly on 
March 14.
Mr. Vauclain, speaking of thrift and 
Industry In tho roalm of business, OB' 
Burned a Franlclinlhn attitude: Whoso 
business but ours, If wo choose to be^ 
gin work at sovon In tho morning? 
Whoso buslnoss but ours, 1L wo ehooso 
not to ond our day's labor until lato 
In the ovonlng?
Tho eminent captain of Industry re
ferred to tho fact that many of our 
public utilities aro In a deplorable con
dition with respect to equipment and 
finances. Ho attributes tills condi
tion of affairs to unnecessary regula
tion on tho part of politicians who aro 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Next Number of Puppet to 
Be Burlesque on Tartan
The next Issue of the Puppet will 
bo tho Tartan number and a largo 
part of. the material In It will ho mado 
up of a burlosquo on tho Carnoglo 
Tartan.
Tlio eovor for thin lssuo will bo tho 
boat and most attractive of tho year. 
It was mado by Front, a sliiidont In 
Arts. And It Is on account of tho oxtra work lnvolvod in tho printing of 
this covor, which has caused tho de
lay In this Issue.
It will ho on sale at nowiistands dur
ing vacation woolc, but will also ho 
on salo on tho campus Tuesday, A.pril 
1, tho first day of school aftor vaca
tion.
Tho Puppet editor wishes to thank 
tho htudonts for tho support In tho 
Collogo Wits Contest and somo vory 
good results woro obtained. Tho win
ner of this contest will bo announced 
In the near future.
STEWARDSON AND LE BRUN 
PRIZE WINNING DESIGNS 
IN ARCHITECTURAL BOOK
The Archltocitral Year Book, to 
bo out somotlmo in May, is to con
tain 120' pages of cuts; tho pictures 
aro now being taken. There will be 
cuts of the prize winning designs 
of the StewardEon Traveling Schol
arship won by Carnegie mon for the 
last two years; thei Le Brun Travel
ing Scholarship won by P. F. Simp1- 
son several days ago; the Paris
prizes and other prizes won in the 
last few years by members of the 
faculty.
The book  Is to be very attractive 
and will sell for $1.50. The' sub
scriptions are now being taken by 
William (Harris, Les Cousins and C'al 
Lundquist.
I May 24, 25, 26! 
j CAMPUS-WEEK!!!
I Thems the dates. Take em down. 
Store em away in that unforgotting 
portion of your remembering facili
ties. Not only that, but every chance 
you got, tell tho world about tho 
fourth ANNUAL CARNEGIE TECH 
CAMPUS WEEK CELEBRATION.
And, when youre home for tho Eas
ter vacation days, talk CAMPUS 
WEEKtoll all alumni in your town 
got that home town girl datod-up 
for the occasionif you havo a wife, 
shut down house keeping, and eat 
with tho rest of the Carnegie Tocliites on tho campus between events 
toll all alumni that vacation days 
should come on tho CAMPUS WEEK 
dates. And all o that! Our motto 
is everybody back on the campus for 
this celebration!
But, when ono gets down to the 
real facts of tho affair, and discovors 
whats going to tako placo on thoso 
aforomontlonod datesits going to 
bo groat; thats all thoro is to it! 
Tho honornblo scribe has glimpsed 
tho program, and boliovo me, he Is 
onthusiastic about It. IIo only wishes 
he could toll it to the rost of tho stu
dents, but time is not ripe yot, nor 
Is the program oithor for that matter. 
Thoro aro a number of llttlo mattors 
pertaining to each and ovory evont 
that must of necessity bo straightened 
out first. Tills much can bo said 
though, Its a groat improvement ovor 
tho throe proceeding years. Evonts 
which did not tako so well havo boon 
ollmlnatod. Others enhmlatod to bo 
exciting and Interesting have boon 
addod. Result: a bigger and bettor 
program than ovor boforo!
And 1 to ton, thats no llo
This Is the reason why!
Girls Evonta.
Tho Magglo Murplis and Arts aro 
coming out iltvong. Thoy are going 
Into tho midst of tho program with a 
vIm and enthusiasm that fiurejy pro* 
phoslzos interesting evontii. Thoy 
aro concontrilling upon tho Corona(Continued on Page Four.)
Prizes to Be Awarded 
For Insignia Designs
Competition Ends Tomorrow 
Awards by S. A. B.
Tho Student Activities Board do
st ros a design for a pendant that may 
bo used oithor us a pondant or a1 
watch charm, and will symbolize any 
or all of tho following activities:
Tech Journal, Thistle, Shilling, Mu
sical Organizations.
Such a design Is now used but Is 
not easily recognizable. It is possible 
that ono symbol may bo used for all, 
with a ribbon Intertwined on which 
may bo engraved the various activi
ties; or three separate designs may 
be submitted; but the design should 
be simple, readable and distinctive.
When reduced the pondant will be 
a trifle over one half an inch In diam
eter. The design may be two inches. 
The Activities Board offers $15.00 in 
prizes ranging from $5 to $1.
School credits will also be award
ed. Design to be handed in by March 
22, 1923, to Prof. Taylou or Ashe in 
Painting and Illustration Department 
of the College of Fine Arts.
Distinctive Attire For Profs. Requested 
Pink Pajamas or Rompers Suggested
Tho Carnegie Mens Musical Clubs 
will give a concert tonight at 8 p. ni. 
at the Pittsburgh College for Women, 
all men of both tho Glee and Mando
lin clubs to take part. The regular 
program will be given and a dance 
will be held following the concert with 
tho Tech Novelty Orchestra providing 
the music.
Another danco will be given in the 
Union Immediately following tho Eas
ter vacation on tho night of Saturday, 
April 7. Tills will bo tho fifth of a 
series of dances given by tho clubs 
which havo proved to bo vory popu* | 
lar on tho campus both from a flnan-' 
dal and entortalning viewpoint. Tho 
Collegiate Imps will play for this 
danco and will probably present somo 
novelty numbers.
The Annual Home Concert and | 
Dance will bo held April 13. The con-! 
cert will be given In the Carnegie | 
Lecture Hall and will be followed by 
the dance in the Union. Final plans 
for the concert are now being com
pleted and all indications point to an 
exceedingly fine program.
By T. S. Repplier.
(Poetic License Number 435627) 
(P. S.In response to many anx
ious inquiries, this Is not a serious 
column).
Now that tho question of red flan
nels for Seniors (see Series XXVI) 
has been so nicely settled, it seems 
only logical to carry tho matter a 
little further. What's sauce for the 
goose is duck soup for the gander, so 
heres a go!
Sweet Shades of Nightshirts!
Tn the first placo, as is proper, lots 
consider tho faculty. What could bo 
than tho rod ties and poo! table hats 
now affected by that august body, to 
have each and ovory professor appear 
dally In a baby blue nightgown, deli
cately trimmed with Old Point laco? 
What could possibly be moro becom
ing to the chic appearance of our In
structors than pale pink pajamas, re
enforced fore and aft with whale-1 
bone to keep out the drafts? II; would 
combine uniformity with tho esthetic, 
distinction with the Paris modes; not I 
to mention the tremendous savingl 
on the Seats of the Mighty. Conjure 
up for yourselves what a charming 
picture would result when the Math I
department flitted hand in hand over 
the cut for an eight-thirty, each 
dressed In his individual fol-de-rol, 
and prattling jollily of his days work? 
Could anything be moro childlike, and 
yet more touching? We doubt it!
Every Dean Has His Rompers.
Then to give still another flavor of 
distinction, why not glvo a costume 
to all llt-tlo Deans and Dean-oss-es? 
Take rompers, for Instance. How 
much moro picturesque would It not 
be, when callod up before a Doan 
to explain how tho homeless canine 
ontorcd tho classroom, to find him 
sitting coyly behind his desk, clad In 
a pair of one-piece rompers and biting 
a toothing ring Instead of a five cont 
cigar? Just bocauno gray heads and 
bald hairs have not boon recently as
sociated with baby talk, at least in 
the mascullno sox, Is no reason at all 
why those In authority should grow 
old before their time. Give the lit
tle ones their bloomers, my de-ars, 
and lot them play to their hearts con
tent! Let as again revert to the days 
of bare dimpled knees combined with 
ample waist lines.
Eventually. Why Not Now?
To the person of nice imagination, 
the possibilities are enormous. Why
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1923
CartiBgiE liactan
Published every week by undergraduutoB of. the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tlio supervision of tho Student Activities Hoard.___________
Entered in the Postofflce of Pittsburgh a socond-clas matter.
VICTOR II. STROMQUIST ...................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHlland 858.
PA D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Builno80 Manager
TelephoneSebonley Jill
HDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelepbonoSchenloy 9148
KENNETII ARNOLD..............................................................................Associate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON ......................................................................................... Associate Editor
H.' V. DIETER.............................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK H. DOWNBS..!..........................................................................................New Editor
TeleplioneHazel 1)398
PniBD 0. SMITH......................................................................................................Now Editor
TelephoneHlland 8118-.T
FIUDD T. PHELPS...................................................................................................Now Editor
TelephoneSebonley 9102
H. II. WILSON ....................................................................................................Athlotic Editor
TelephoneHazel 935G
R. P. HAY ............................................................................................................ Photographer
EO B. KELLER ............................................................................................ Exchange Editor
10. P. COUSE, JR...........................................................................................................Art Editor
GA S. REPPLIER.........AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA Special Writer
W. B. CUNNINGHAM ................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSehcnley 9211
J. C. MAJOR....................................................................................... Circulation Managor
TelephoneSebonley 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Eloanor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Ilortznmn, F. D. RoBBlnl, W. Winning, 
It, D. Ricliard, A. F. Andrew, B. DeMaro, E. G. Eigle, A. E. Krough, I. H. 
Isaacs, R. G. Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
E. C. Fruzlor, J. II. Ferguon, O. E. Jacoby, J. ChrlHtofT, II. P. Roback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. Dempaoy, J. B. liaudig, ,D. Moskovltz, J. W. 
Metro, 1*. W. Reilly, II. Olboon, W. A. Jaclco, P. Edie, R. L. Sandroelc, B. 
Broudy, H. Urchel. ________________________________________________
The EdItor-in-Chlef 1 roponiblo for the policy of thi paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcome all communication' of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All new item must be in the student 
postqfllce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OfliceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Ofllce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
HONORARY FRATERNITYWHY?
Last Wednesday at General. Assembly, Alpha Alpha Nu, local 
Journalism Honorary, announced a list oil six pledges. Last Satur
day evening at the annual Science stag smoker, Tau Beta Pi an
nounced a list oi! live pledges from the Junior class. And in this 
issue of the Carnegie Tartan comes the announcement that Pi Delta 
Epsilon, the Honorary Collegiate Journalism Fraternity, has granted 
a charter to Alpha Alpha Nu, thus bringing another national organ
ization to the campus of Carnegie Tech.
There are on the campus of this institution men who profess to 
scorn election to societies such as these. They ITHSDMWM have you be
lieve that honorary fraternities are worthlessthat they breed illfeeling; that they are of service neither to the undergraduate nor to 
the institution of learning where they exist; that recognition in the 
form of membership in an honorary society is sought only by those 
students possessed by an exaggerated, ego, who wish, to place them
selves above and apart from the common herd, as being constructed 
possibly ol' some liner stuff than their more common brother students. 
And yet how false is this delusion on their part. For even these 
men must conl'ess to a quickening of the pulse, and a. faint but for
lorn hope as the names ol! the honored ones are read and the pledge 
is received amid the applause of the audience.
For to dosii'o rec?)gnitioii is an inborn trait, and not a manifesta
tion ol! an exaggerated ego. As has been said once or twice, the 
world will cheer a winner, and even though a man may publicly deny 
it, must he not admit deep down in his heart that it would be quite 
satisfying to hoar his name read at the call ol! some honorary fraternityV A man will do liis host work if he knows that recognition 
awaits him as a reward for his labors, and honorary fraternities, in 
satisfying fundamental insinet, perform a service of inestimable value 
to the schools and colleges where l.hey are located.
Would school activities at Carnegie be at their present; high 
plane of development if the incentive of Druid, of Delta Skull, of 
Dragon and of Mortar Board were absent? Would the publications 
of ('arnegie rank as high as they do at present, if Alpha Alpha Nu 
did not offer a reward for initiative and for outstanding good work? 
Who will dispute the statement that Tau Beta Pi, Tau Sigma, Delta, 
and Alpha Tau have spurred on many a studnet to do the best work 
possible, in the hope of some day wearing the coveted key'/
Honorary .fraternities have proven their worth here as olsewhere, 
and instead oil! blocking the efforts of men desirous of bringing to 
this school other such organizations, these endeavors should bo en
couraged. Thero are honorary societies in the fields of Civil, Elec
trical and Mee.hanie,al| Engineering, in Music, in Athletics, and'in 
many lines oi! undergraduate endeavor, and these societies should be 
represented at Carnegie. We need more such organizations, and any 
group of men endeavoring to gain recognition for Carnegie through 
one of these societies should bo aided and urged on until their labors 
are crowned with success.
ARE YOU ONE OF THESE?
Hurrah for me; to hell with you.
Anything you can get away with is all right.
Im always my first consideration.
If I get what I want, what do I care?
Im the guy that counts; all others are mere infinitesimal noth
ings.
If you cant find yours, why should I worry?
M have mine. Naw, I dont know where yours are.
Merely a few moto.es of a few individuals. Lack of consideration 
of others is the keynote. These sort of fellows think you are here 
for their own goodthat, if you have anything they want, all they 
have'to do is to go and get if; and, while they have it, their line of 
thought runs like this: It doesnt belong to me, so I11-use it as I 
pleaseIll scribble in itIll chunk it ,at the ca.tIll mutilate it, 
Maybe it can be used up. If so, Ill use it upwhy should I worry? 
didnt cost me anything, and lie can buy another one.
Perhaps the writer is a pessimist. Maybe hes an idealist. You 
never can tell. But, getting down to the bottom of the matter, either 
one of these can be and more than likely is the other. Maybe the 
idealist is a pessimist because he so often sees his ideals trampled 
upon. He is hurt that so many are forever ignoring the harder path 
of straightforwardness and truthful service, rather than avoiding the 
easier path of get whatever possible by liook or crook; and he is hurt 
by the eternal evasion of the fifty-fifty, man to man proposition.
Mon like these are on all sides of you. They borrow your books, 
and novor return them. They tjiko your instruments and expect you 
to come and get them. They think theyre favoring you by doing 
such. ARE YOU ONE OF THESE?
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, MA1CI1 21
Student AssomWyOollogo of Fino.Avts...............11:30, Arts Thontor
College of Industries...........12:30, 101 Industries
M. M. C. C..................Assembly Hull, M. M. G
Collego ol Seionee and Engineering...,209 Seionoa
DnunaTorch) Raeo................................................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, MARCH 22
Chapel..........................................................................12:50, Arts Theater
ConcertGirlsHome Concert and Dance, 8:00, Carnegie Lecture Hall
DrainaTorch Race.................................................8:15, Arts Theater
Band Practice...........................................................7:30, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, MARCH 23
DramaTorch Race................................................S:15, Ails Theater
SATURDAY, MARCH 24
DramaTorch Race................................................8:15, Arts Theater
Easter Vacation Commences. 
TUESDAY, APRIL 4 
Classes Commence. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 7
DinnerMid-West Association..........12:30, Ring Ed^Vard Apartments
>
(
Coffin Foundation 
Offers Fellowships
Seniors and Graduates,] Are 
Eligible
GIRLGI SEECUBHOO Twelfth Insurance 
DIES OF PNEUMONIA
! Radio Club Will Use New 
Class is Graduated Transmitting Outfit Soon
Seniors and graduate of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology are eligible 
to apply for the Cbarle A. Collin Fel
lowship, according to an announce
ment received recently from the 
Cbarle A. Co/Iln Foundation,- estab
lished by the General Electric Com
pany.
"The term of the Cbarle A. Co/iln 
Foundation," Bay the announcement, 
"make provision for tbe award of iive 
thouand dollar annually for feliowlilpH to graduate of tbe universities, 
college and technical chool of the 
United StatoH wbo have shown, by 
the character of their work, that- they 
could, with advantage, undertake or 
continue research work In educational 
institution either In till country or 
abroad.
"The field in which these fellowliipa are to bo awarded are electric
ity, physics, and physical chemistry.
"The committee desires to make the 
awards to men who, without financial 
assistance, would bo unable to devote 
themselves to research work. The fel
lowships will carry a minimum allow
ance of fivo hundred dollars. Tbe al
lowance may be Increased to meet tbe 
special needs of applicants to whom 
the committee decides to award the 
fellowships.
"Candidates ror tlio Charles A. Cof
fin Fellowships should file applica
tions on forms .provided for that pur-1 
pose, and obtainable from the chair-1 
man. Applications will be welcomed 
from Seniors as well as graduates of 
universities, colleges, and technical 
schools, but any award to a Senior 
will be conditioned upon his gradua
tion.
"The committee requests that all 
applications first be sent to the dean 
of the educational institution at'which 
tlio applicant is, or has been, in at
tendance within the year. The com
mittee desires that the dean or other 
college executive in turn file all the 
applications received by him at the 
same time, together with a state
ment naming the two men applying 
who in his opinion or the opinion of 
the faculty are best qualified to re
ceive the award.
"Applications must be filed with the 
committee by April IB, 1923, and 
should be addressed to Dr. Frank B. 
Jewett,- chairman, Charles A. Coffin. 
Fellowship and Research Committee, 
care of American Institute of Elec
trical Engineers, 33 West 3flth street. 
Now York, N. Y. The period allowed 
for filing applications has been neces
sarily brief as the foundation lias been 
only recently established. Modifica
tion in procedure may bo made for 
futuro awards.
"Those awarded fellowships will be 
notlfiod of the fact by June 1st.
New York, March 15, 1023.
To tlio Editors of The Tartan.
Wo received a copy of a Tartan in 
which it is intimated that there 
might be a change made in the tune 
of our Adma Mater song.
We hope that this will not be 
done. Whether the old tune iB used 
in other colleges is no reason for a; 
change, Tlio air which has been 
used from beginning has an author
ity about it that cannot bo easily 
overcome and the Austrian hymn 
has a grandeur that is in keeping 
with the onward, march of Tech. At 
least, "this is the oponion of one of 
tlio
CLAN MANHATTAN.
SPEAKER OUTLINES
ROAD TO SUCCESS
(Continued from Page One) 
totally incapable of passing judgment j 
upon tho needs of huge industrial en
terprises such as our public utilities ! 
have become.
Speaking of tho immigration prob
lem, Mr. Vauclain said that, if the 
cheap labor of which American indus
try is sadly in need, is kept out by 
strict immigration laws, American in
dustry wpuld have recourse to the in
genuity and inventiveness of Ameri
can engineers who could devise ma
chines to perform the work which un
skilled human hands have hitherto 
been called upon to do.
Having risen to his high position as 
head of one of largest locomotive 
makers in" the world through his own 
thrift and industry, Mr. Vauclain 
showed his true worth during the past 
war when he became an important 
factor in the industrial machine which 
helped the Allies win the war.
Following Mr. Vauclains address 
Mr. Morgan P. Noyes, a Yale grad
uate who has traveled extensively 
throughout Europe and Asia during 
the past few years, gave a very cap
able talk upon the merits and aims of 
the Foreign iStudent Relief Associa
tion.
Led by tbe Mens Glee Club and 
the College Imps, the student body 
sang the Alma Mater to the new mu- j 
sic composed by Mr. J. Vick OBrien. |
George R. M. Heppenstall, instruc
tor of Costume Design in the Arts j 
College, died last Thursday of pneu
monia, after a short illness. He was 
21 years of age, the son of George T. 
Heppenstall of 1139 Mellon street, and 
generally recognized as one of the 
most promising young theatrical de
signers in the country. He was born 
in Pittsburgh and was graduated from 
Peabody High School, where he first 
studied art under Miss Thoburn. Hep
penstall then entered the New York 
Academy of Fine and Applied Art, 
and in six months he finished a three 
year course and became an instructor 
in the Academy, doing costume and 
stage-setting designing. For about a 
year he was a designer for Lucille. 
A year ago he returned to Pittsburgh 
and became an instructor at Carnegie. 
Owing to his work as an instructor, 
he was unable to accept this year an 
invitation to exhibit his work in Lon
don and Paris, but had planned to go 
next year.
Thistle Board Requests
All Bills Paid At Once
There are still a few outstanding 
bills due the 1923 Thistle Board for 
pictures to appear in this years 
book. The engraver will soon be com
pleting his work and must be paid be
fore be turns the plates over to the 
printer or' else the board forfeits, ac
cording to contract. Due to the fact 
that bills cannot yet be sent to the 
advertisers it is essential that all of 
the school organizations get their 
share of the money in so that the 
treasurer may have enough money to 
pay the engravers bill. Some of the 
miscellaneous clubs as well as some 
classes and two or three of the dormi
tories are still delinquent. Treasur
ers of these are kindly requested to 
get the money collected at once be
fore the early holidays and leave at 
the Tech postofflce for Vincent Roy, 
treasurer, or mail to him at 5064 
Forbes street.
Two Women Students Re
ceive Certificates
Bess Williamson, of Milvale, was 
among the twelfth class in Life In
surance Salesmanship to graduate 
yesterday at Carnegie Tech. Marga
ret A. Clancy, of Portland, Maine, 
shared with Miss Williamson the dis
tinction of being the only women in 
this last class to leave the School of 
Life Insurance Salesmanship.
Four Pittsburgh men also were 
graduated at the exercises. They 
were Herbert R. Coursen, James L. 
Hukill, Jr., John A. Jordan, and Clar
ence L. Wright. The other members 
of the class came from nine different 
st-ites, and two Canadian provinces. 
Fourteen insurance companies were 
represented by the members of the en
tire class.
The principal speaker of the grad
uation exercises was Philip Burnet, 
president of the Continental Life In
surance Company, of Wilmington, 
Delaware, whose subject was What 
Is Your Importance?
Other speakers were Dr. Baker, and 
Dr. W. V. Bingham, Director of the 
Division of Co-operative Research. 
The graduates were given temporary 
certificates exchangeable for diplomas 
after they have completed a years 
work in the field, and have written a 
specified amount of business during 
that period.
The following were graduated: Law
rence W. Bass, Indianapolis, Ind.; 
Robert B. Branham, Topeka, Kans.; 
John S. Cameron, Chance Harbor, 
Nova Scotia; Paul F. Cranfield, Madi
son, Wis.; William Ek, Wilmington, 
N. C.; Robert E. Farr, Bolton, Miss.; 
Ralph M. Gray, Summerfield, Kans.;
j The Carnegie Tech Radio Club held 
a joint smoker and business meeting, 
J in the tScobell Hall clubroom, Wed
nesday night, March 14th. The busi| nes3 meeting included an election of 
! officers for this term, as follows; Tad' lock, president; Ross, vice president; 
i McKelvy, secretary; Lazicli, treas
urer.
The club set, which will be ready 
to handle traffic by the end of the 
Easter holidays, will contain a ten 
watt C. W. transmitter, which will be 
operated as a licensed amateur star 
tion. A regular operating schedule 
will be kept by the licensed members, 
in turn.
The nature of our schedule will be 
intercollegiate news, transmission and 
reception of student messages, and 
and other College functions that we 
may fill.
Everybody is invited to our next 
regular meeting, to be held in the 
Dormitories Club Room, April 3rd, at 
7:30 p. m. All candidates for club 
membership should be present at thia 
meeting.
Charles P. Houston, Kitchener, On
tario; William McCoy, Pleasant City, 
Ohio; Arthur H. Peterson, Waterloo, 
Iowa; Matthew D. Re veil, Toledo, 
Ohio; Lewis A. Ripley, Halifax, Nova 
Scotia; Harold W. Soesbe, Greene, 
Iowa; and  Frederick L. Wright, Oak
land, Cal.
The spring class will begin Monday, 
April 2, to continue for the usual pe
riod of eleven weeks.
Old students should knownew stu
dents may be glad to learnthat Pitts
burgh has a store which specializes 
on Greeting Cards for all purposes 
Friendship, Birthday, Wedding Anni
versary, Convalescent, etc.  namely, 
.the Singer Pen & Gift Shop in Jen1 kins Arcade.
Tribune Prize Drawings 
Exhibited in Arts School
SUMMER SCHOOL SCHEDULE
INCLUDES NEW SUBJECTS
(Continued From Pago One.) 
tho orchestra rohoarsai periods t.o 
olthor participate, or for observation, If they do not play an orchestral in
strument. Many new subjects will 
also bo glvon in tho Department of 
Painting and Illustration and tho De
partment of Appllod Art.
But Blight changes are noticed in 
tho summer curricula of tho Englnooring Oollogo. Most of tlio students of 
this collego will bo undergraduates. 
Tn tho Collage of Industries, tho varie
ty of courses of peculiar appoal to 
undergraduates and to teachers of 
manual and industrial arts, has boon 
Increased, particularly by tho addition 
of now oloctrical subjects.
Practically no now appointments 
will bo mado in tho faculty for tho 
summer sossion, as tlio corps of teach
ers will again bo filled from tho ranks 
of tho regular faculty members. Of 
Interest, however, is the announce
ment that C. Valentine Kirby, Direc
tor of Art Education, State Depart
ment of Public Instruction, will bo 
present July 2 to July 20 to give one 
of the courses in Normal Art.
SIX SIXTY SCIENCE STUDES 
SEE STARTLING STAG STUNTS
(Continued from Page One) 
those elected to the Tau Beta Pi. Pro
fessor Howes explained briefly the 
purpose of the fraternity, and present
ed the pledge pins. Then Coach 
Beeler outlined the coming work for 
the track tenm; the schedule, he said, 
includes meets with Pennsylvania, 
Penn State, Navy, and Ohio State, as 
well as participants in the Dake1- Con
ference.
The Junior class put on an extrava
ganza in two parts entitled Damned 
If It Isnt the Sheik. Manetti, the 
author of the play, gave a prologue 
in Italian dialect. During the inter
mission Mr. Murphy sang Always 
Mine, and Knowles, Dirscli, and Say
lor were elected as judges of the con
tests.
Mr. Kirkpatrick gave a short talk 
on the non-athletlc activities, and the 
true meaning of collego spirt. Then 
camo the Senior stunt, a circus, in 
which a strong man, a pschycist., and 
a Hula Hula troupe wore promi
nent.
Tho faculty was represented by Mr. 
Porter and Professor Ely. Mr. Port or 
sang one or Port Williams' favorlto 
songs and "Tho Day T Played Base
ball," and Prof. Ely gave a sliglit>ofhand exhibition which proved to bo 
one of tho host stunts on tho pro
gram.
The last foature was a light supper 
in tho Commons, and tho presentation 
of the various prizes offered by tho 
smoker committee. Tho Freshman 
class and Prof. Ely were adjudged 
the winners In tho evening's contests.
Much credit is due to Pete Thom
son and Ills assistants for the way in 
which they managed the whole affair.
Miss Oldham has taken Tip astron
omy.
How strange! Perhaps she has 
heard that there is a man in the 
moonTemple University.
The competitive drawings for the 
Tribune tower in Chicago were exhib
ited on March 13, 14 and 15, in the 
College of Fine Arts and comprised 
what is probably the finest collection 
of architectural designs ever pro
duced.
Prizes aggregating $100,000 were 
awarded, the first prize being $50,000 
and attracted the interest and talents 
of the best men In the Rrcliitecturnl 
professlont hroughout the world; 
twenty-two nations were represented 
and over . two hundred designs sub
mitted.
The first prize, won by I. M. Howells 
and R, M. Hood, was the most ra
tional and interesting as to plan of 
all submitted. The second prizo de
sign was tho most poetical and beau
tiful but lacked tho practical features 
nocessary for an offlco building and 
is the creation of a well known Fin
nish architect.
Associated With Carnegie Tech.
It is of considerable interest that 
quite a fow dosigns wero submitted 
by Carnogio Tech graduatos and es
pecially that, Mr. Ilood worked with 
Mr. ITornbostol oh tlio building buroau of C. I. T. for four years, and 
assisted him in producing and design
ing tho Fino Arts building and was 
likowlso Ills assistant in the Albany 
Education. Building.
Mr. IIoyvollB was also an associate 
of Mr. Iiornbostel when they wero 
awarded :SSCDP prize in the Phoebe 
Hurst competition of the University 
of California.
Out of the lot exhibited more than 
ton wero by students of Mr. I-Iombostel who finds delightful consolation in 
that fact that his designs were beaten 
by his pupil Mr. Hood.
Younger Men Active.
It is a pleasure to note that 
many of the good and interesting 
solutions come from j'ounger men, 
Architect I-Iornbostel remarked as he. 
expressed his opinion of the exhibit:
In general the exhibition illus
trates how very difficult it is to pro
duce a beautiful office building, which 
is natural because the problem is new 
and very critical.
The exhibit also illustrates the 
great resourcefulness and courage -of 
our architects to artistically adapt all 
historical styles to embellish this 
type of structure and is a fine exam
ple of excellent craftmanship.
This competition will do much to 
make the public appreciate the value 
of such contests for they are the only 
means of stirring to an intense de
gree the imagination of an architect 
and give the public an opportunity to 
obtain the best achievements from 
our architects."
.j. % .j. I
REPRESENTATIVES AT 
I* SEVERAL COMPANIES TO
INTERVIEW SCI. SENIORS
J* Tlio attention of the Seniors > 
in the College of Scionce and < 
Engineering is called to the vis- !* 
It of representatives of tho * 
v Western Eloctrio Company, the *1* 
American Toloplione and Tolo- * 
2* graph Company, and tho Bell *! 
Tclophono Com pan)- of Pennsyl*! vauia and New York on March * 
22. Tliose interested In the work 
> offered by those companies aro *5*
* urged to bo present at the in- * 
'} torviews which will take place -J*
* in Room 202, Machinery Hall.
* $
\
"Mother, sposing I died, should I 
go to heaven?
"Yes, dear.
S'p'osing I died because a big 
bear swallowed me, would he have 
to go too?Ex.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
Sunday Services:
Church School ............ 9:45 A.M.
Open Forum .................10:00 A.M.
Religious Worship ...11:00 AM. 
Young Peoples Relig
ious Union............... 7:15 P.M.
Wednesday.
Womans Alliance------11:00 A.M.
A cordial invitation is extended. 
REV. L. WALTER MASON, D.D. 
Pastor.
ttttttttffintttsntfflttffittttttttttttttntriuT? P
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .............................10:00 A.M. :
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ...................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. : 
WELCOMEl TECH STUDENTS
\CiYour Friends Are There
Where?
Dont miss WESLEY FOUNDATION DAY 
April 8th, 1923, at
Oakland Methodist Church
---------and---------
Wesley Foundation 
Forbes and Boquet Streets
X
Cake Eater 
model of 1900
He was called dude and dandythen, but you recognize the type.
He majored in haberdashery and 
took his degree with honors in 
soxology.
As if that were not enough, he 
evolved some variations on the cake 
walk which made them stare.
He even found time to develop a 
remarkable proficiency on the tandem, 
bicycle, and on Saturday nights he 
was good enough to bring pleasure 
into Anothers life by wheeling away 
to the Ten-Twent-Thirt.
To crowd all this into four short 
years would seem enough for any 
mortal. Yet in spite of his attain
ments there are times, in after life, 
when our hero wonders.
The glory of his waistcoats has 
long since faded, while his books are 
still fresh and clean. Did he perchance 
put too much thought into the selec
tion of his hats and too little in what 
went under them?
'estera Electric Company
Since 1S69 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Number 28 of a series/

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
INTER-FRATERNITY 
TRACK PLANS MADE
H. A. Bowman, chairman o the 
New Development Committee of the 
Interfraternity Council, presented a 
list of recommendations to the Coun
cil Saturday concerning the proposed 
Intra-Mural Track Meets. It is de
sirable that the various fraternities 
get their men out for practice as 
soon as possible, for the meets are 
now a certainty, with the Interfrateraity Council in back of the move. 
Coach Beeler of the varsity track 
team, has expressed his desire to aid 
in the development of such competi
tion and is willing to offer his ex
pert advice to all those who wish 
to participate.
The recommendations, as drawn up 
by Bowman and his committee and 
passed upon favorably by the Coun
cil, are as follows:
That the manager of Interscolastic 
Track Meet b& appointed as presi
dent of Intra-Mural Track.
That the various fraternities and 
dormitories' elect a manager to rep
resent their organization and these 
constitute a governing body or 
Boards of Control.
That all general fraternities and 
dormitories are eligible to enter 
teams in the track meets.
That the competition include a 
series of meets with not less than 
two events in each meet.
That each event be finished the 
week scheduled and a winner defin
itely decided.
That men who have received a 
varsity letter in track, be declared 
ineligible. Track does not include 
cross-country.
That the last meet b a relay 
carnival, to be held on the Saturday 
afternoon of Campus Week. The 
committee should co-operate with the 
Campus Week Committee in arrang
ing this last meet.
That Coach Beeler be a member 
of the Board of Control and the 
board profit by his suggestions and 
co-operate with him as much as pos
sible.
That points be given to the win
ners as follows:
First placeFive points.
Second placeFour points, etc. .
That the organization with the
Athletic Council Appoints 
S. E. Bittner B. B. Manager --------On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
PLAID CAGE SEASON Inter-Frat B. B. Ties PLEBE CAGERS DROP 
SEMI-SUCCESSFUL Played off This Week FINAL GAME TO KISKI
At the Athletic Council meeting 
held last Wednesday night, the man
agership of the basket ball team for 
the next season was bestowed upon 
the willing shoulders of S. E. Bitt
ner, who this year has served as first | 
assistant. Miller and Beardsley wero j 
also elected first assistants .to Bitt-' 
ner. It is felt that the retiring man- j 
ager, Syd Iveller, made no mistake in 
recommending that Bittner to be his j 
successor, for the latter has worked i 
hard and shown ability enough to win i 
the good will of the players.
The football coaching situation was i 
straightened out with the result that | 
Wally Steffen will act only as advisory I 
coach, with Dr. Marks as field coach 
and Al Irwin assistant coach. In the 
absence of Steffen, Dr. Marks will 
have complete charge of the squad. He 
coached the varsity team before 
Judge Steffen was engaged, and his 
appointment is no surprise to the fol
lowers of Plaid athletics. Both he 
and Al Irwin are thoroughly familiar 
with the Steffen system and it is not 
expected that any confusion will re
sult from the changes in the coaching 
department. Spring practice under 
the supervision of Dr. Marks will be
gin after the spring vacation.
The football schedule as published 
in the last issue of the Carnegie Tar
tan was approved by the Council, 
with the correction that the Lehigh 
contest will be played at Forbes Field 
instead of in the Carnegie Tech Bowl. 
It was also announced that the Fresh
man football schedule will be ready 
for publication soon, subject to the 
approval of the Athletic Council.
Basket ball letters for the season 
just ended were awarded to the fol
lowing men: Anderson (Captainelect), Donohoe, Mefort, Gibson, Mohr
man, Matter, Dosey, and Manager 
Keller. The Council refused to ap
prove the tentative tennis schedule as 
made out by Manager Kreisle and 
published in the Pittsburgh papers, 
last week.
Those present at the meeting were 
Messrs. Casey, Boone, Overend, Lee, 
Tarbell, Day, Marks, Irwin, Greenlaw 
and Brumbaugh.
WE FEEL LIKE
Kicking up our heels and frisking around among the hills and dales of 
Schenley Park today. Did you ask why? The "why" of it is that today is 
the first day of Spring according to the calendar although perhaps not ac
cording to the weather. Spring has been sort of sneaking arouud for the 
last week or two but doesnt seem to get up enough courage to come out 
from under cover and drive off Old Man Winter.
We judge that Spring must be pretty close at hand for Coach Garland 
has had a preliminary meeting of the tennis candidates and we expect to 
soon see them cavorting around on the courts next to Maggie Murph. With 
a tough schedule ahead of them and most of the matches away from home, 
theyll have to start something pretty soon if they expect to get in trim for 
the first matches the latter part of next month.
Scholastic Difficulties Hamper 
Team. Future, However, 
Appears Brilliant
The following quotation from The American Student came in through 
the mail bag: Pittsburgh, Pa.Coach Knute Rockne of the Notre Dame
aggregation of football thunderbolts, declares in a letter to a local friend 
that Carnegie Tech was the cleanest team his men played this season.
We like to have such compliments paid to our gridiron warriors. It 
means a great deal to have such a statement come from a coach of Rocknes 
caliber.
Heres a way to help your Alma Mater while home for the Easter vaca
tion: When you drop around to visit the old high school just talk up Car
negie Techs Annual Interscholastic Track Meet.
May 5 is the date of the meet and from present indications it will eclipse 
all previous ones. Letters of invitation have been sent out to schools in the 
surrounding district. It is up to you to talk it up and tell the boys what a 
fine time they will have on their visit to the Carnegie campus.
The Plebes failed to get their desired revenge against Kiski last Friday 
night, but nevertheless put up a hot game against the Saltsburg boys. 
Toots Amans was crippled as a result of some old injuries and could not 
hold out to the end. His accurate shooting was sadly missed as the score 
shows.
This Inter-Fraternity Track Meet is rapidly becoming a thing of reality 
and the fraternities and dormitories should wake up to the fact and get their 
men out digging up the cinders on the track. Coach Beeler will give out 
coaching free to all comers.
greater number of points be declared 
winner of the meet.
M
Three Tears for a Start 1
J
OHN' HANCOCK experience shows that 
if you sell life insurance for three years you 
will continue for your entire active busi
ness life.
Why? Because you will find it the most 
pleasant and remunerative business you can 
choose. It is constructive work, it produces 
self-reliance and independence and affords the 
greatest satisfaction in every way. To be a 
MNSC THCWNWP representative in your com
munity is to stand for the best there is.
Before making any decision regarding your 
career write the Agency Department.
mmm
m
PAGE TWOHCRWNE IDSYRW,M
SG lSiRSAf oIiiIrDiNRRi 
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
The High Diving Contests 
Are Over
T
HE days of seeing how fast you can chase a 
shaving cream cap down the drain pipe are 
past. For here is a cap that cant get lost. Its 
hinged on. Think what a lot of minutes it 
will save. No matter how carelessly you handle 
your shaving apparatus, the cap is on to stay.
With a convenience like this cap you might 
be tempted to use Williams Shaving Cream 
whether you cared much for the cream or not. 
But once you use Williams }roull like it as well 
as you do the cap. For Williams breaks all 
records for fast softening of the beard. And more, 
it is good for the skin 
soothes it, keeps it in good 
condition always.
Test a tube of Wil
liams by judging it on 
every point you can think, 
ofspeed, lather, com
fort. See if you dont 
think its noticeably better.
Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose itand the tube liunga up I
WilliamsShaving Cream 

Wally made a wise choice when he picked Doc Marks and Al Irwin as 
assistant coaches of football. Doc has coached Plaid teams in the distant 
past and played the game in his college days at Old Penn. Al has put In his 
four years under the Tartan colors and men who know speak of him as a 
brainy player. Past seasons have proVen him the keystone of the Plaid 
line and his position at center gave him the opportunity to see tho points 
of practically every position on the team.
GIRLS BASKET BALL 
FINALS AFTER EASTER
FORMER DEAN TAKES 
CHARGE OF NEW DEPARTMENT
The girls' inter-dorm basket ball 
games are progessing rapidly. There 
are five  teams competing, Forbes 
Hall, Main House, Forbes Annex, Mel
lon Combination, Upper Woodlawn 
and Lower Woodlawn. Last week 
Mellon Combination beat upper 
Woodlawn to a score of 20-13, Forbes 
Hall, Main House beat lower Wood
lawn 23-5. This week Forbes Annex 
plays lower Woodlawn and Forbes 
Main House plays Mellon Combina
tion. The games are full of pep, cheer 
leaders, music and everything. The 
championship game will be played the 
week after Easter vacation.
Thursday afternoon Miss Bowman 
entertained the varsity basket ball 
team and squad at afternoon tea In 
the tea room of M. M. C. C. Like all 
of Miss Bowmans parties it was a 
great success. Very unusual place 
cards wero used with each girls pic
ture on hers instead of her name. 
Margaret Markey was voted captainelect for next year.
Volley ball practice started with a 
very promising turnout. Games will 
be scheduled soon after vacation. 
Watch for the Twilight League.
The tennis list has been posted and 
as soon as the weather permits tho 
courts will be full with everyone get
ting Into trim for the tournamont, 
the finals of which are to be played 
during campus week.
Swimming, another spring sport, 
also shows favorable progress. The 
only regret is that the pool is avail
able just one day a week. The swim
ming meet will be held some time In 
May.
April 11th is the day for the Sopho
more Freshman gymnastic meet. 
This is the first of Its kind for many 
years and it promises to be interest
ing.
The personnel of the various girls' 
team are as follows:
Vorsity: Dorothy Cook, Mary
Hughes, Helen Sloan (Captain), Elea
nor Craver, Helen Floyd, Margaret 
Markey, Geraldine Corbett, Maude 
Cook, Agnes Allison, Naomi Parkin
son.
Clara Waterman, Winifred Rice. 
Ruth McDavid, Ruth Snyder, Ray 
Fine, Edith McLeod, Eleanor Craver, 
Agnes Allison, play on the M. M. 
Senior Class team. Those . on the 
Junior team are Leole Rathman, 
Helen Sloan, Miriam Bond, Margaret 
Weinstine, Mary Heilig, Gladys Sleppey, Anne Stuffle, Dorothy Chalmers. 
The Sophomore Class is represented 
by Maude Cook, Mary Speers, Mar-, 
garet Markey, Rose Morin, Helen 
Dougherty, Louise Ely, Lois Snyder, 
Hildreth Boughamer, Bernice Rentz, 
Erla Patterson:
Dorothy Cook, Charlotte Drake, 
Charlotte Durie, Berye Rankin, Ger
aldine Corbett, Mary Quick, Mary 
Davenport, Mary Hill, Helen Floyd, 
Mary Hughes are tbe Freshman aspi
rants. The Design School team is 
composed of the Misses Hoffman, Par
kinson, Ralston, Davis, Valloire, 
Schmallhorst, Blose, and Skurkey.
The championship game between 
the Sophomores and Freshmen will 
be played this week.
LAST WEEKS STANDINGS
National League
W. L Pet.
Iota Sigma Delta................ 0 1 .857
Kappa Sigma Rho.,.------6 1 .857
Beta Theta Pi....................... r, 1 .857
Scobell Hall ......................... 4 3 .571
Delta Epsilon Omega.... 3 4 .429
Sigma Tlpha Epsilon.... 2 5 .28(3
Sigma fcpsilon Phi........... 1 6 .143
Delta Phi Delta..................... 0 7 .0C0
(Continued From Page One) 
office of governor he appealed to tho 
Board of Trustees to release Doan 
| Connolley to talco charge of the Dej partment of Labor and Industry of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The 
trustees, knowing Doan Connelleys 
experience, permitted him to go dur
ing tho Sproul administration. Dur
ing tho administration of Mr. Sproul 
his work has been marked by better 
industrial conditions from tho stand
point of the administration of labor 
laws according to tho outline of tho 
period arranged for the department.
Tho three years and two months in 
I which Dr. Clifford B. Connolley sorvod 
as Commissioner of Labor and Indus
try under Governor William S. Sproul 
hav-5 been marked by better Industrial 
I conditions from tho standpoint of ad
ministration of tho labor laws, ac| cording to an outline of the porlod arI ranged by the department.
| During big term Commissioner Con| nelley had to deal with probloms that 
| liavo Jeft the landmark in industrial 
j history, the statement said.
These Include:
I 1. Re-employmont of thousands of 
I ex-service men following tho war dur| ing 1010 and 1020.
2. Stabilization of employment, 
conditions during the unemployment 
wave ol! 1021 and tho spring of 1022.
3. Rehabilitation of industrial crip
ples in accordance with tho Sproul re
habilitation plan embraced in tho Act 
of 1010.
4. Securing bottor Industrial rela
tions, better conditions for employ
ment of women, curtailment of em
ployment of minors, and increased 
safety precautions through rulings of 
tho Industrial Board.
5. Equitable administration of 
I Compensation Act which has involved,
 during the Sproul term, 615,075 Indus-;
trial accidents.
6. Adoption of the block system of 
inspection of Industrial establish
ments, providing for centralization, 
economical administration and better 
safety for workers-.
Each of these achievements carries 
with it a story of the work of the 
several bureaus under Commissioner 
Connelley, - including the Industrial 
Board, of which he is chairman, the 
statement said:
This Board, representative of all 
phases on industrial activity, has 
adopted 37 complete safety standards 
governing the various industrial pro
cesses, designed for the benefit of the 
health and safety of employes, which 
were approved after public hearing.
One of the outstanding develop
ments of the administration of Com
missioner Connelley has been the cre
ation of advisory groups to assist the 
department in matters affecting the 
welfare of industry. Eight of these 
groups now functioning:
1. The Pennsylvania Industrial
Physicians and Surgeons.
2. The Pennsylvania Association
of Employment Managers.
3. The State Boiler Board of x. aminers.
i 4. The Elevator Board of Exam| iners.
I 5. Tho Pennsylvania Association
I of Approved Boiler Inspectors.
Ho comes back hero as Director of 
Industrial Relations which ho seems 
j eminently fitted to carry out. Educu! tion as it stands today, especially in
dustrial education, is very much mis
understood and tho trustees believe 
that Dean Connelley can adjust this 
In such a way that it will make it 
worth while to those seeking this 
work for advancement.
American League.
Sigma Nu ............................. 6 1 .857
Pi Kappa Alpha ................ 6 1 .857
Boss Hall ............................... 5 2 .714
Tau Gamma Phi.................. 4 3 .571
Delta Upsilon ....................... 3 4 .429
Woodlawn Club .................. 2 5 .280
Delta Mu ............................... 2 5 '28<3
McGill I/all ........................... 0 7 .000
Federal League.
Xi Sigma Upsiion ........... 6 0 1000
Beta Sigma Rho.................. 5 1 .833
Kappa Sigma ....................... 4 2 ,6fc7
Theta Xi ...............................2 4 .3/?3
Henderson Hali ................ 2 4 .333
Welch Hall ......................... 1 5 .If."
Square and Coijipass.........1 5 lfI7
Another basket ball season at Car
negie Tech has como and gone but 
tho records hang on forever. With 
the exception of tho replacing a few 
new teams on tho Schedule this year 
it was much the same as last years, 
both in games played and their re
sults.
Shortly beforo the holidays, Coach 
Ben Lubic made a call for lloor can
didates and he seemed much pleased 
by the largo turn ,011t. Lubic Is a 
Pittsburgher and a Pitt graduate; 
he was a star forward on tho Pitt 
team for four years, being captain in 
1917. From that time until ho cuino 
to Carnegie to fill tho vacancy left 
by former coach Hal Iddlugs, Lubic 
was successful in developing teams 
at Duquesne High, and also at Westiughouso High.
As the eligibility rule tightened 
about the prospective lloor candi
dates, several of the most iavorable 
ones, Including Captain Bell, Dosey 
aud Moran from last years team, 
were smothered under. With the 
news that Don Potter, tho fourth 
dependable veteran was leaving col
lege, the new coach had a double 
task in shaping his men for tho In
itial encounter of the three game 
western trip during the holidays.
Evidently too much Santa Claus 
swoots had an effect on tho playing 
endurance of the nine men who 
were chosen to battle against tho 
quintet of Dopuy, Butlor College 
and Michigan Agglos for eaoh of the 
three was lost in the last half:
Jimmy Anderson, a regular from 
tho 1921-22 team and captain of tho 
1922 football team, proved to bo tho 
leading point-gotter for the lnvadin 
Scotch. During these three games 
as well! as in most of those that fol
lowed, Andy as acting captain, tallied 
tho largest percentage of tho points 
scored by the Plaid cagers. Jimmy 
will bo back at his forward position 
to captain next year's team.
The boys won tho first home gamo 
against tho Mlddlebury Collogo pass
ers on January 3. This game 
brought out 1101110 inkling that a 
steady-working quintet might be dovolopod from the shapoleas fumbling 
Jlvo that decorated Motor Square 
Garden iloor In yellow jerseys.
Penn State and Genova both un
dermined tho moral of the hard
working Slclbo cagemen by captur
ing close scoring contests; tho first 
of tho two at Stato Collogo and tlio 
second at tho Carnoglo Field Ilouso. 
Dotormlnod that his team should bo 
a winner, Coach Lubic sot out to 
chango a fow positions to hotter U10 
team workand ho got rosults.
Unlvorslty of Wofit Virginia was 
tho first victim, W. and L. tho sec
ond, Grove City the third, and Alle
gheny tho fourthonly to bo Inter
rupted from straight succession by 
Penn State.
Gibson, who captalnod last year's 
toivm, old exceptionally good work 
at guard and earned moro than a 
guards usual number of baskets.
Mefort, a plucky yearling with 
every promise of being a dependable 
man for tho con ter position, along 
with Miller, who discontinued  his 
icollego career at tho end of tho first 
semester, and O. B. Nevyman who 
suibbcd on tho team but had to 
leavo the floor to concentrate on his 
scholastic work, wore badly missed 
in the remaining contosts.
Tho next four games wero played 
on foreign floors and the story of 
*those, defeats would take away the 
joy of the proceeding victories. Tho 
first of the two was f dropped to tho 
Catholic University iloormeu who 
won by a similar score last year. 
Georgetown, the second winner, 
romped away for a 10 point margin.
Last year West Virginia handed 
the Plaid fioormen a double defeat 
but this year they were lucky to 
split even. After winning eighteen 
games straight running and then 
having Carnegie Tech lower their 
crimson colors to a sad defeat of 
29 to 18, Grove City sought revenge 
on tlieir home floor and thus repeated 
last years record.
Allegheny was twice" forced to bow 
to the Sklbo passers while last year 
the Meadville boys took one and 
gave one. In as many gamps as 
Midge Matter played, he demonstrat
ed that he was a strong contender 
for a forward jobhis size being the 
only handicap. He . was captain of 
the invincible 192G Plebe team.
During the last eight games Dono
hue, of whom more will be heard 
next yoar, showed such good form 
that soijie basket ball authorities 
have picked him for honorable men
tion. Mohrman, who held down the 
other guard position with Gibson, did 
not play a. sensational game but 
rather a reliable defensive game and 
as he will also be back next year, 
the Sklbo team will be strengthened 
by his return.
Although,. Dosey was not eligible 
until after tho second semester, ho 
kept In the host condition and train
ing and ho soon found himself play 
Ing a good brand of basket ball at 
center. Last year Dcraey was the 
center oi attiaction when It came 
to shooting baskets from the foul 
line. When Oble Newman came 
back to the game, ho and Dosey took 
turns at the center position since the 
opposing teams all seemed to have 
exceptionally speedy mon In the 
same position.
The 1922-23 basket ball letter-men 
are: Anderson (A. C.), Keller
mgr.); Gibson, Donohue, Dosey, 
Mohrman, Matter and Mefort.
Final Series to Open Satur
day After Vacation
Tho three league schedules have 
been finished by the playing off of 
postponed games lust week. In tho 
national lenguo 1111*00 teams are tied 
for honors. Monday night Bela 
Tlieta Pi and Kappa Sigma 111 10 
played.
The winners of this game will 
p'lay Iota Sigma Delta tonight for 
tho National League leadership.
Tuesday night Alpha played for 
the leadership of tho American 
League '
Tho final series will probably start 
Saturday afternoon after vacation, 
with tlie wiunors of tho National 
and American Leagues, and Xi Sig
ma  Upsiion of the Federal League 
participating. Each team will play 
two games with each of the other 
two.
Last weeks scores of schedluled 
games are as follows:
Nationail Ltagiic.
Beta Theta Pi 14, Delta Epsilon 
Omega 11.
Amorican League.
McGill Hall forfeited to Pi Kappa 
Alpha.
GIRLS' GLEE CLUB CON
CERT TOMORROW NIGHT
(Continued from Pago One) 
on tho branch of a chestnut tree. 
Glee Club.
SSpecialty. Trio.
4)Stringers.
10Lady of Shalott. Glee Club.
The appearanco of tho Mens 
Gloe Club In fourth place 011 tho 
program will add a great deal of va
riety to tho concert. Tho men will 
bo honor guests of tho girls for the 
0 von ing.
Rehearsals are being hold every 
day this woelc and this conicort prom
ises to bo tho host In tho history of 
Carnegie. Tho club consists of fifty 
picked voices and Mr. Ruhls tiroloss efforts a director uro briniglng 
wonderful results. It used to bo 
tho prevalent Idea that a Glee Club 
concert was meant only for those 
who had somo musical ability. But 
tills idea is passed and this concert 
Is for anyone and everyone who has 
a. good pair 61! oars. Tills Is go Ini' 
to bo an. all Carnegie affair, so join 
tho crowd.
Following tho concert a dance1 will 
bo hold in tlio Union with tho Colicglato Eight providing tho music. 
Tho concort will begin promptly at 
eight, so that tlio dunco may start 
by nine-thirty.
TIckots are now 011 sale by mombora of tho dubs and will bo sold at 
the concort.
Last Friday night the Plebes lost 
a very hotly contested game to Kiski 
by a score of 37 to 26. Too bad, 
Plobes! We all know that you wore 
In the game with tho same old fight 
which gained for you such a suo 
cessful season and this defeat at) 
tho hands of such a team as Kiskis 
is 110 disgrace.
Goodwin played a stellar game Sor 
tho Freshmen. During the courso ell 
the game ho scored six field goals. 
Jackson also played a fine guarding 
game and made 7 out of 7 tries fon 
fouls. Little old Toots Amans had 
hard luck in being a little off Ills 
usual form. If Toots had been on, 
tho story might have been different. 
However, tho boys did the best they 
could and the only explanation for 
their defeat is that they ran up 
against a better team.
The Freshman, team has only suf
fered two defeats this season from 
school teams and they have both 
been from the one school, Kiski. 
This constitutes a very enviablo 
record of which every Carnegie 
Tech man is proud. This is probiubly ono of the most successful soar 
sons which a Plebe team has over 
had at our school. They have clean
ed up on every high school of any
strength in tho Pittsburgh district
and have lost to ono school outside 
of tlio city. Congratulations, Plobes! 
You have tlio real Carnegie spirit.
Tho lineup:
Carnegie Fresh,2$ Kiski37.
Amans ...................F.......................... Wildl
Goodwin ...............F............. PartelV
Cook .......................C............... Smith
Jackson ................G............... Garvov
Boodo ......................G... Vulcmanlc
COGNIZANCE
Throughout tho world 
whcrovor there in n bank- ( 
ing center travelcro' 
checks, or a letter of crod- 1 
it lonucd by tho Mellon 
National Bank will be rec
ognized and qulokly cash
ed. Both comfort and ore- | 
dehtlals are nsaured j 
through nrranglng tho de- I 
ta I In of your trip through 
our Steamship Agonoy.
Mellon National BankOliver >Aue.& Smilhfieldi \
EASTER NECKWEAR
EXCLUSIVE PATTERNS
Davies & Hughes
OAKLAND8 MENS 8TORE 
3015 FORBES STREET NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
When You Want What You Want
Como to Smith's. Being the largeut floral ectabIlGhmcnt In Pittsburghor Western Pennsylva
nia for that matteryou will naturally find here 
an unusually largo soleotlon, both In varictlou 
and pricoo.
A. W. Smith Company
FLORISTS
LIBERTY AT SIXTH PENN AT STANW1X
Smlthflcld 0327.
- from luiilo 
Pox Trot
Arnold Johnson and His Orchestra1H77Crinolina Duyn  Kox Trot- Box Uovuo of 1922-2.'!
Away I) own East In Maln<>- 
Orlole Terrace Orchestra1S7H.Journey' EndPox TrotIntroducing "Tie 
Up from Up Hlio <<mti"
Porcelain Maid  Fox Trot  From MuhIo 
Box Jlovtio of 1822-23
Florence Easton (Soprano)I'rcifiiiuuliH a PDr Entrella (O A/ilc of tho 
Starn Beloved) Mexican Folk Hoiiff El Cellro (Tlio Zophyr) Mexican Folk.WonK. 
Herbert !.. Clarke (.Cornet 1st)Carnival of Vmilco (Arlmn)Htant In a Velvety Bley (Clarke)
Ernest Hare ( liar Hone)ZHTfiIn a Corner of tho World November JlONO 
White Way Male Quartet. Hilly Jones (.Tenor)Hi!Ocoi'Kla Culliti lloor
Who 1)1.1 You Fool Attar All
NEW BRUNSWICK RECORDS 
Released Dally 
No more waiting to the end of the month. 
Alvvay.s Boni'Cthmg new at Brunswick Sliopn. 
Brunswick Records can be played on any phono
graph. Hear! Compare!

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 21, 1923
THE PHILADELPHIA CLAN
On Friday GVOTdng, Mai'di ft, tho 
Philadelphia Clan, gathered in the 
Green lloorn of tlio Arcadia CaCo lor 
the regular monthly im.-tillng. The 
usual good time wiib enjoyed1 by all. 
JMnnor woo oxccllont and tlje daeing 
to the music ol' tbe Arcadia Orchestra 
delightful.
Tlic Clan took in nvo now mom.bers. Initiation ceremonies wero in 
charge of Mr. ISxline, master of coro 
(monies, who conducted lils difficult 
duties with such entertaining origin' 
ality and singular adeptness that 
times and again ho won tlio applause 
of his follow niotiibers. When the 
neophytes beoanio l'ull-illodged mem
bers they wore entrusted with, tho 
Clan pass-word and heartily welcomed 
by President Schmidt and Secretary 
Iipplncott.
The question; of a Carnegie Index 
lor Philadelphia and this district was 
then brought up and a committee In
structed to secure information from 
tlio individual Carnegie graduates, 
jyrellmlnary Lo the publication of tho 
directory. It Is the desire of the 
Clan that the name of everyone in 
tho Philadelphia district appear, so 
if you are in that district, and your 
name is not ,on Secretary Lipplnootts mailing list, get busy and 
Idirop him a line. I-IIs address is 000 
Washington, avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
The annual election of officers 
comes at the next rogular meeting, 
and in accordance with the custom 
of proceeding years, a committee was 
appointed by tho president to nom
inate candidates to bo voted up'on 
Cor office. The Nominating Commit
tee named, is composed of Exllne, 
chairman, Lippincott, Ward, Bmmel 
and Miss Stoinnmcher.
It is planned to have the annual 
social affair sometime next month, 
April 14 having 'been selected as a 
tentative date. Special invitations 
to tho dinnor dance will be issued 
to all whoHo names aro on the mail
ing list, as well as to the New York, 
Harrisburg, 'Baltimore and Washing
ton Clans.
Clan members prosont ;it the moot
ing Included A. U. Harsh, M. \V. 
.Tonies, A. itf. Ball, L. 10. libel Ino, .1. P. 
Bailey, P. W. Schmidt, W. P. Llpplncott, H. M. Ward, V. W. JCmmel and 
Misses Ethel M. Frodotto, Dorothea 
Stelnmachor und Elolse McMahon. 
Th Clan, entertained ait ;guest Mrs. 
U E. Exllne and Mrs, P. W. Schmidt,
LOYAL CARNEGIE ALUMNI 
HELP KILT FUND DRIVE
'PITTSBURGH CLAN
Those who wero prosont at the 
last Pittsburgh Clan luncheon en
joyed It so much that they have 
been asking us when wo aro going 
to have tho next affair.
Well we'll spring Jt now. It's to 
ho on Saturday, Marcir*31. The place 
and the nature of it you shall hear 
more about Jn tho next issue of The 
Tartan, buL iyou can bank on it that 
we are going Lo do our host to make 
It even moro onjoyablo than the last 
one.
If you have any criticisms or sug
gestions to mako send them to A. J. 
IJynd, C. I. T., and ho will bo glad 
to consider them.
THE WASHINGTON CLAN
On Saturday evening, March 10, 
the members gathered at the house 
of Kathryne Harris for a business 
and social meeting. Plans had boon 
inade Lo hold the meeting at 
"Anchor-Inn," ono of the lodges on 
the Potomac, but duo to the cold 
and rainy weather Ibis had Lo be 
given up. However, tho picnic sup
per was found to bo just as onjoy
ablo indoors. A short business meet> 
Ing was held and plans discussed for 
a danco which will probably bo held 
on Thursday evening, April G Tho 
rest of the evening was turned over 
Lo dancing and cards. FlfLoen wore 
present including the Missos Harrla, 
Tibbetts, Baldwin;, 'Staples, Anold, 
Lawrence, Tones, and Llio Messrs. 
Zobol, Pickering, Pringle, ltagsdale, 
Haller, Arnold, Little and Levy.
NORFOLK CLAN
Tho monthly mooting of tho Tide
water Clan of Norfolk, Va., occurred1 
Mareh 7, 19211, in the office of Pink 
Splglo and at tho Hotel Fairfax. Dur
ing tho business routine a communi
cation was read from tho Washing
ton Clan and tho question, brought 
up concerning the Lrousuror and 
finances. It being ascertained that
Don't give up, Alumni, dont stop 
sending in your check for the Kilt 
Fund. Wo have not reached our goal 
yot by a- long way; nor will wo for 
a long Lime, aL tho present rato al 
which tho money is coming In.
Keep on boosting the campaign 
until you hear that we have gone 
over tlio top. And when we do 
you'll hear a big enough noise.
BuL in the meantime wouldn'L you 
rather bo glad you did help it than 
wlfdi you had?
Those who have come aboard in 
tho past Lwo weeks are: Mr. and
Mrs. G, C. Clark, E. L. Schumacher, 
A. N. Slratmoon, Ruth ;S. Perkins, 
Frances Ilrii.vburn, Ii. C. Bauer.
thoro was no treasurer or mono}'. 
The job was entrusted to tbe secre
tary.
After dinner Hie Clan had several 
speeches ant- impromptu discussions, 
led by Dave Fitsc^lbbons, Pink 
Speigle and Billy Rudolph; and, 
rambling over such subjects as 
"Road house parlies and Ihelr con 
trlbution to the artistic development 
of Design students. The absolute 
lack of humor of the PltLsburgh po
lice force, Atwood rooming houses 
and tho Inconvenience of moving 
from them at midnight; and, Lhe hapI/y associalions (happy buL unknown) 
which developed between members of 
Carnegie and of Lhe Indiana Siale 
Normal School."
AL 10:30 p. m., Lhe Clan adjourned 
and all started home, happy, contimed and wondering. Confusion Is 
a general attribute of all speeches. 
The wandering, however, was more 
specific. Every one was thinking 
whether or not they were born too 
late; If by mischance Lhey came on 
to this old mud ball a few genera
tions after their time Instead of in 
tho old days when tho demijohn sat 
on every mantel: or if perchance 
they) came loo early InsLead of a few 
generations later when Lhe cukeeaters and flappers are in all Ihelr 
glory.
Mr. Willoughby, a former Sclenca 
graduate and at present with the 
Jamestown ArL Metal Company, was 
a guest of the Clan. Wo hopo that 
this congenial young man will come 
tills way again.
JAMES W. PHILLIPS, 
Secretary Tidewater Clan.
Dramatists Present Four Act 
Play-The Torch Race
Mid-West Association Will 
Give Luncheon Sat., April 17
The next public production by the 
Drama Students of Carnegie Tech, 
"Tho Torch Race, Is being given 
Wednesday and Thursday nights, In 
tho Arts Theater. The play has been 
translated and adapted by Miss Eve
lyn Cohen, Costume Mistress in the 
Drama Department, from "La Course 
do Flambeau, the play by Paul Hervieu.
"The Torch Race is a typical 
French drama, In four acLs. The 
theme Is founded upon the theory thaL 
a parent inevitably opposes its own 
parents to protect its offspring, and 
that, in turn, Lhe offspring will like
wise oppose Its parent, in similar con
troversy. The play's setting are mod
ern.
Professor Chester Wallace is In 
clmrgo of the production. Allen Lowe, 
plays tbe role of Sabine Revel, the 
mother, Mary Brown is Mme. Fontenais, Llio grandmother, and Marga
ret Ripley Is cast as Marle-Jeanne, 
Lhe daughter. The leading male parts 
will be played1 by Joseph Lazarus, 
John Burns and James Resley.
OLhers in Lhe casL will be: AusLln 
J. Coughlin, Herbert Polosle, C. B, 
Bowman, 52abel Davis, Janet Perry, 
Clare Schellhase, Elizabeth Lindsay, 
Clarita SLevens and Mabel Eichler.
The Mid-West Association held a 
business meeling Sunday, March 11, 
in Lho Y. M. C. A. Club Room. Sev
en'll important matLers were brought 
up and acted upon, including a lunch
eon, hikes when weather permils, 
recognlLlon pin and an induslrial 
Lrip.
The association wishes to notify 
ils mombers and friends from tho 
Mid-West that a luncheon will be 
held Saturday noon, at 12:30, April 
7, at the King Edwards Apartments. 
This luncheon will take the place 
of the regular Sunday meeting. At 
this time a new secretary will bo 
elecled, and final action taken on 
Lhe recognllion pin. Due to certain 
difficulties, acllon on the latler had 
to be postponed.
WaLch for Lhe green cards, all ac
tivities will be posted in due time. 
Lets keep up the old spirit and 
finish up strong.
FOURTH ANNUAL CAMPUS
WEEK MAY 24, 25, 26
DISTINCTIVE ATTIRE FOR PROFS 
REQUESTED, PINK PAJAMAS
OR ROMPERS REQUESTED
(Continued From Page One) 
not, for example, erect a Maypole in 
front of the Central Building, so thaL 
aflor a liearLy meal in the Commons, 
A. N. I-Ieyl could join hands with 
Doc McKay and T. W. Stevens and 
dance happily round in rings, by way 
of aiding digestion? Imagine the de
light ?t would bring to the litLle chil
dren of the streeLs, who going home 
wILli the Slide Rules, would pause and 
dance with glee.
The only ones not wholly in favor 
of the scheme at present are the 
faculLy!
Galher ye kisses while ye may,
Time bring.! only sorrow;
For Lhe flappers who flap so free Loday
Aro the chaperones of tomorrow.
Cincinnali BearcaL.
Teaching Engineeringa Real Mans Work
Why are you satisfied to spend your 
days here when you might be doing bigger 
and more remunerative work with us? 
The speaker was the Vice President of a 
big corporation, and he was addressing a 
great chemist.
The man to whom he spoke looked from 
his study window out over a well-loved 
campus for several moments before lie re
plied. Finally his answer came, I guess 
its because I am more interested in help
ing to make men than I would be in just 
making things.
This thing of building men is one of the 
most fascinating-vocations known. The 
pleasure that grows out of watching men 
develop, out of seeing them make effective 
use of the fundamentals that have been so 
carefully given them to use il. is doubt
ful if there can be any pleasure much 
deeper or more satisfying.
The teacher honors himself in the use
fulness of his students. And the teacher 
of engineering, especially. His laboratory 
and his materials are in the minds of men. 
He shows them the right and constructive 
use of the senses and the memory in se
curing and storing information. He trains 
the judgment and the will to analyze and 
to decide. Little by little he develops the 
will to do, the ability to turn decision into 
accomplishment, the quality that always 
marks the successful engineer, who is a 
man who gets things done.
Westinghouse, and every engineering 
business, must acknowledge a deep obliga
tion to those teachers whose training and 
interest have been an inspiration and a sure 
foundation for t he individual successes that 
are constantly being recorded. And nothing 
that men or events may do can deprive the 
teacher of his rightful share of such triumphs!
Westinghoose (W
ACHIEVEMENT  OPPORTUNITY
VESTINGHOUSi
ELECTRIC
(Conllnued From Page One.) 
tion of the Queen. This event is to 
be conducted by the girls, including 
her election, which is good for as
suredly the girls are betLer fitted to 
superintend the election of a queen 
than boys. The affair will be con
ducted just as a regular school elec
tion. In fact, the queen will be voted 
upon the same day as the regular four 
school elections. A ballot will be pre
pared with all nominations, and the 
names of each voter will be checked 
oil as ho votes, thereby eliminating all 
possible chances for stuffing the bal
lot.
The coronation itself will be 
Thursday night, at a Coronation 
Dance, the selling of which is to be 
a Fifteenlh Century Court, and accord
ing to tho committee in charge will 
be very gorgeous and elaboratein 
other words, entirely in accordance 
with coronation traditions as they 
were in the days of Queen Elizabeth 
of Tudor fame.
The girls are concentrating upon 
this event, but at the same time are 
planning a number of other events 
which will make their part in the cel
ebration a very big one. Reports 
come thick and fast as to just what 
those events are. Some reports men
tion a girls sweepstakes between the 
dormilories, a girls alhletic meet, 
finals in the girls tennis champion
ship tournaments, a garden party on 
Mellon Hall lawn, a brige party, and 
then some.
Seems Lo mo, I can hear you all 
sny: "Sounds good to me! 
Sweepstakes.
The fourlh annual death-defying, 
nerve-thrilling, hair-raising, sLupendous, exlraordlnary ovenl of all evenls 
Inter-Fraternity 'S'weepstakes will 
ngain bo the headline attraction of 
Friday morning. Don Sonneman is 
working on the nffair, and has made 
urrangoments and plans to correct tho 
mistakes in tho past.
Two yoars ago Iota Sigma Delta 
won Lho event, and last year, due to 
tho amash-up at the lapo, qulle a loL 
of confusion reigned as Lo Lhe win
ner, it. finally bolng decided to award 
cups Lo Lho Lwo teams who finished 
nock and neckor, might wo say, 
radiator and radiator?
This year, tho finishing stretch will 
bo ropod off, thus eliminating all 
crowding of tho course at tho finish 
by excited spectators, which last year 
caused all* trouble.
Mardi Gras.
Last years costume dance left a 
permanent impression as perhaps the 
best and crowning event of the cele
bration. Everybody had a greal Lime, 
and everybody righl then and there 
decided that theyd be right back on 
the spot for this festival this year. 
Efforts will be made to exclude all 
people other than Carnegie Tech studenls, alumni, and Lheir visilorsjust 
how this is to be done is being 
threshed out by the commitlee.
Harry Hamillon is working in conjunclion wilh Jack Willard on the an
nual play of Saturday evening at the 
Schenley Theater. Rennys Place 
was a great success. This year will 
be even better, if such is possible. 
Realizing the handicap of the small 
theater, an extra performance will be 
given in the afternoon in order to ac
commodate the public who might 
wish to see this play. Also, for the 
overflow from the students perform
ance.
Turcotte is lining up the musical 
clubs for a music fest. This will be 
something out of the ordinary run of 
such events as given in the past 
Campus Weeks. All musical clubs, in
cluding the band, mens and girls 
glee clubs, stringers, and musical de
partment of the College of Fine Arts 
are co-operating and a fest well worth 
hearing (and seeing, we hear) will re
sult.
All in all, this year is going to live 
up to its past made repuLation. Take 
this Tartan home with you over the 
Easter vacation days, and whenever 
you havo a chance, tell all alumni 
about it. Invite tliom to return to 
tho Campus for May 24, 25, 26. InALPHA ALPHA NU GIVEN
NATIONAL CHARTER
(Continued From Page One.) 
of which ten acLively support daily 
pers, and seventeen maintain weekly 
newspapers, seven semi-weekly papapers.
At the convention last week, Dr. 
Earnest M. Hopkins, president of 
Dartmouth College, was elected Grand 
Presidenl for Lhe coming year, and 
among ils honorary members Pi Delta 
Epsilon numbers the' names of War
ren G. Harding, and Dean Thomas 
Arckle Clark of the University of Illi
nois.
Alpha Alpha Nu, whose installation 
into the national organization will 
take place within a few weeks, has 
fifteen active members and six 
pledges, in addition to nineteen alum
ni members and one honorary.
When founded in 1919 its purpose 
was to promote and encourage co
operation between the publications at 
Carnegie, and to honor men who have 
done exceptional work in the fields of 
the various student publications. Since 
then its field of endeavor has been 
expanded, until today it also, in gen
eral, supervises publications at Car
negie, and publishes the Student 
Handbook and the Campus Courier.
The active members and pledges, 
and their activities on publications 
boards are as follows:
Active members: Victor H. Stromqulst, Delta Upsiion, Editor-in-Chief 
Carnegie Tartan, 4; Editor Campus 
Courier, 3.
Car! E. Landefeld, Delta Xi, Thistle,
2, 3, Editor-in-Chief, 3.
Theodore S. Repplier, Delta Upsi
ion, Puppet, 1, 2, 3, 4, Editor-in-Chief,
3, Advisory Editor, 4.
' John D. Evans, Delta Upsiion, Pup
pet, 1, 2, 3, 4, Business Manager 4; 
Thistle, 2, 3, Business Manager, 3.
Howard Bowman (Sigma Nu, Puppet, 
2, 3, 4, Managing Editor, 4.
John D. Franklin, Beta Theta Pi, 
Puppet, 2, 3, 4; Thistle Sales Manager 
3; Campus Courier, Sales Manager 3.
James K. Matter, Sigma Nu, Puppet 
1, 2, 3, 4, Editor-in-Chief 4; Thistle 
Staff, 3.
David C. Porterfield, Delta Upsiion, 
Thistle, 2, 3, Advertising Manager 3; 
Puppet, 2, 3.
Dr. Thomas Stockham Baker, A.B., 
Ph.D., President, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology; Beta Theta Pi; formerly 
managing editor The Baltimore Sun.
Edward A. Brand, Theta Xi, Car
negie Tartan, 2, 3, 4, Managing Editor 
4; Thistle Staff, 3; Campus Courier 3.
Henry F. Simpson, Theta Xi, Car
negie Tartan, 2, 3, 4, Associate Editor 
4; Campus Cpurier, 3.
James D. Mawhlnney, Beta Theta 
Pi, Thistle Business Manager, 3.
Ray B. Keller, Delta XI, Carnegie 
Tartan, 2, 3; Thistle, 2, 3, Editor-inChief, 3.
Joseph A. Berno, Carnegie Tartan, 
3; Thistle Staff, 3; Puppet, 3, 4, Ad
vertising Manager, 4.
John M. Cooper, Sigma Alpha Epsi
lon, Carnegie Tartan, Advertising 
Manager, 3.
I-I. Don Sonnemann, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, Carnegie Tartan, 1, 2, 3, 4, 
Business Manager, 4; Puppet, 2, 3, 
Business Manager, 3.
Pledges: Charles Hollingsworth,
Sigma Nu, Business Manager, The 
1923 Thistle.
C. E. Cooper, Kappa Sigma, Art 
Editor, The Puppet.
Kenneth Arnold, Square and Com
pass, Associate Editor, The Carnegie 
Tartan.
Harry F. Dieter, Sigma Epsilon Phi, 
Associate Editor, The Carnegie Tar
tan.
Teasdale Barney, Beta Theta Pi, Art 
Editor, The 1923 Thistle.
B. Broudy, Puppet Staff.
The following is a list of the col
leges and universities where Pi Delta 
Eprilon maintains chapters: Alle
gheny College, University of Arkan
sas, University of Arizona, Bowdoin 
College, University of California, Col
gate University, Colorado Argi Col
lege, Columbia University, Dart
mouth College, Georgia School of 
Technology, George Washington Uni
versity, Hamilton College, University 
of Illinois, Johns Hopkins University, 
Lawrence College, Lehigh University, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technol
ogy, University of Michigan, Univer
sity of Minnesota, Ohio State Univer
sity, Ohio Wesleyan University, Stev
ens Institute of Technology, Swarthmore College, Syracuse University, 
University of Tennessee, University 
of Texas, University of Toronto, Uni
versity of Utah, Vanderbilt Univer
sity, Wesleyan University, and Wil
liams College. Charters granted at 
the recent National Grand Conven
tion were to Carnegie Institute of 
Technology and to Wabash College.
I Public Sales I
We have purchased 122,000 
pairs U. S. Army Munson last 
shoes, sizes b/2 to 12, which 
was the entire surplus stock of 
one of the largest U. S. Govern
ment shoe contractors.
This shoe is guaranteed one 
hundred per cent solid leather, 
color dark tan, bellows tongue, 
dirt and waterproof. The ac
tual value of this shoe is $6.00. 
Owing to this tremendous buy 
we can offer same to the public 
at $2.95.
Send correct size. Pay post
man on delivery or send money 
order. If shoes are not as rep
resented we will cheerfully re
fund your money promptly upon 
request.
National Bay State 
Shoe Company
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
CO-ED
She was a damsel,
Passing fail
With rolled sof'ks,
And bobbed hair,
I paused to look,
I stopped to stair,
Yet lingered not
I heard her swear.
Kentucky Kernel.
vlte them to bring their wives and 
sweethearts, and you, every single 
student, bring yours, whichever it 
may happen to be!
Aufhammer & Evans 
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Keimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
.FOR RENT
ATTENTION!
Will be in a new home 
after April 1st
The Tech 
Barber Shop
4531 FORBES ST. 
Just around the comer
Compliments g
of J
1 Skibo Inn I
ETWOH
WRIGLEYS
and give your stomach a lift.
Provides -flic bit ol 
sweet** In beneficial 
form.
Helps to cleanse 
the teeth and keep 
them heaEthy.
BATTERIES 
RECHARGED AND REPAIRED 
Called for and delivered.
Parking Lamps ...........................$2.00
W. & J. Timers for Fords... .$2.50 
(Outwear five ordinary timers.) 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY CO. 
4521 Forbes St., near Craig Street 
Phone Schenley 4545.
tmenio.
