COSMOPOLITAN CLUB 
DANCE IN UNION 
8:30 SATURDAY
POPPETS EXCHANGE 
NUMBER 
OUT THIS WEEK
VOL. XIX No: 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1925
PITT DEFEATED 
IN HARD FOUGHT 
CONTEST 27-19
Visitors Never in Lead But 
For a Very Short Time 
at Start of Fray
DONOHOE AND LYNCH 
STAR FOR CARNEGIE
Plaids Victory Ties Seasons 
Series Between the 
Two Schools
NO RECESS TO BE v
GRANTED FOR WASH- v
INGTONS BIRTHDAY
Since Washingtons Birthday 
 falls on Sunday this year, no va1 cation from school will be grant1 ed, and classes will be held as *
 usual on Monday, February 23.  
 As it has been customary for the  
 administration to grant holidays 
on the birthday of the great  
1 American, this news may come 
 as a surprise to many. The ex1 planation given is that the date 
 is not a scheduled school day.  
 With this change in plan the  
1 next vacation will be the Easter 
 recess which begins April 16. <
MUSICAL CLUBS 
SCORE HIT ON 
INITIAL TRIP
| Visit Grove City, Erie and 
Westfield on Week 
End Itinerary
AUDIENCES WAX 
ENTHUSIASTIC
GIRLS PRO/W FINAL 
TICKET SALE OPENS
Clubs Now Appearing- at 
Schenley Theatre Twice 
Daily
The Carnegie Tech passers annex- j 
ed their second victory in the last j 
two years over the University of | 
Pittsburgh, Friday, in the new Car-1 
negie Gym, by the score, of 27 to 19. j 
It was a typpical Carnegie-Pitt battle 
characterized by the keen rivalry and , 
fight shown by all teams represent-; 
ing these two big schools.
The Panther Jumped Into the lead 
at the very beginning, when Kowalis 
caged a foul goal and followed im
mediately with a double-decker. This 
lead was short lived however for the 
Tartans came right back and scored 
seven points in quick succession. The 
play of both teams was ragged at 
times, several easy shots being 
missed from directly under the bas
ket. It was evident that the players 
were in a. highly nervous state and 
it took them some time to settle 
down to their usual smooth play. The 
first half ended with the score 12-7 
in favor of the Skibos.
During the intermission the rival 
supporters carried on a spirited 
cheering duel, Pitt expecting a 
strong come-back and Carnegie con
fident of victory. The Kiltie band 
was out in force and when the teams 
came on for the second half enthu
siasm was at white heat.
The Tartans came back stronger 
than ever and although the Panther 
team got within three points of the 
Plaid in the third quarter, Carnegie 
stiffened its defense and allowed 
Carlsons crew only two more points, 
themselves scoring seven.
Carnegie did not show the same 
form as they did in the Geneva and 
Grove City games, although they out
played Pitt both in passing and shoot
ing. Donahoe, Carnegies fast mov
ing forward was a difficult man to 
stop, once he started stepping down 
the court. Thrice he annexed dazz
ling shots under the hoop. Conrad, 
too, shared much of the glory of the 
Skibo victory. On several occasions, 
receiving pretty passes from Dona(Continued on Page Four)
Committee Distributes Over 
One Hundred Tickets to 
Senior Girls
HINES BROS. TO PLAY
Only Engineers May 
Attend Science Stag
Faculty and Senior Stunt 
Committees Announced
That the Science stag this year will 
be open only to men of Science school 
was the statement made today by 
Fred Rossini, chairman of the stag, 
following the announcement of the 
stunt committees by the Faculty and 
Seniors, and the appointment of Le 
Baron, Caven and Depue, Junior Elec
tricals, by Eta Kappa Nu, to take 
charge of the lighting.
The premier entertainment of the 
Engineering College will be a very ex
clusive aifair this year. Only Science 
students will be permitted to attend, 
and arrangements are being made to 
see that the plan is carried out. This 
gives the smoker a distinctiveness 
that no other stag has had, and is in 
keeping with other plans which are 
being developed to make the affair a 
real party.
The faculty, who are trying to best 
the students in the contest for the sil
ver trophy, have appointed G. C. 
Porter of the Electrical Engineering 
Department as their chairman. He 
has been lining up the best actors 
among the professors and instructors, 
and is planning to present a skit that 
will make everyone forget that the 
faculty failed to produce an offering 
last year. From their point of view 
the competition will be very one sid(Continued on Page Four.)
Final arrangements for the Wo
mens Prom are being made and 
things are being whipped into shape 
for February 27. Almost all the pre
liminary tickets have been sold, and 
the sale of final tickets has begun.
The Women's Prom differs from 
the mens Prom in that the seniors 
come by invitation and are guests of 
the juniors. Tickets have been dis
tributed to approximately one hundred 
seniors. A good percentage of the 
juniors have bought their tickets, as 
well as a number of alumni, and it 
is expected that two hundred girls 
will attend the Prom.
Hines Brothers Orchestra, which 
scored such a hit at both the Arts 
Ball and the Post Ball, have already 
been secured. Insomuch as the suc
cess of the Prom depends largely up
on the music, the committee aimed to 
hook the best musicians possible. 
Most of the girls have heard I-Iines 
Brothers at the Willows where they 
were booked during the summer, and 
know them to be talented musicians. 
The Hotel Schenley will be tho scene 
of this party, which is a high-light 
in the social career of every college 
girl.
Final tickets must be obtained from 
members of the Committee before the 
end of this week, so that the proper 
number of favors and other details 
may be worked out.
The Musical Clubs brought home 
the bacon! The victories in basket 
ball are not the only ones, for the 
Musical Clubs decidedly defeated 
Grove City, Erie and Westfield ou 
three successive days. It may seem 
impossible that this is true, but the 
clippings from the papers of the vari
ous towns bear us out in the state
ment.
Wednesday evening the men gath
ered sandwiches and coffee in their 
hands and rushed from the hotel to 
the auditorium, where they started 
the concert a half hour late. The 
tardiness was due to the fact that 
the train was running in the B. & L.
E., and started from the B. & O. sta
tionand even then, Bob, De PUe
missed it. After the concert the men
were entertained at the Penn-Grove 
Hotel at a danceand they were en
tertained! At the town restaurant 
after the concert and dance, Steve 
Kovack was heard to say that he 
thought the thing went over nicely, 
that was the first report, and the
others confirmed the statements.
Thursday morning at 5:00 the men 
had to get up and run for the train 
which left at 5:55, and even that In
terval was not enough. Cal Lundquist took a Ford to make the rounds 
to the Dorms for the purposo of 
awakening the men, and as the snow 
covered the mud, he mistook a dirt 
road for a concrete one, and missed 
the trainhe got the car out by noon, 
however, and then came to Erie via 
(Continued on Pafe Four.)
 COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
DANCE IN UNION SAT
URDAY NIGHT *
The Cosmopolitan Club will *>?
* hold a dance in the Union Satur- *2*
I* day night, February 21. *
* The Techsous Orchestra will * 
v be in attendance from 8:30 to $* 
v mid-night as the' daucers spin *
* round the hall in accompan- *> 
*! imeut to the sweet melody. * 
*! The chairman of the Manage- ?
* meut committee refuses to fur* nisli further particulars but * 
v seems to be in a doubt as to *2* 
*> whether the Carnegie daucers ?>
* like or dislike the spotlight play- !
*! ing on them as they go round. * 
?I* The Cosmopolitan Club in* vites all Carnegie students to 
I* live up to their reputation and
I* muster strong on the floor. A * 
I* record crowd is expected. Ad- *!? 
!* mission will be a dollar and a
* quarter. v
PUT INFIRMARY 
UN BASEMENT 
OF McGILL HALL
GIRLS NOW HAVE ROOM 
AVAILABLE FOR MEETINGS
SHILLING PRIZE STORY 
CONTEST ENDS MAR. 10
Twenty dollarsthat's the prize, 
and the object is to have every Car
negie student try to. get it. How? 
Thats simple. Just sit down, get an 
inspiration, and start to write. When 
you have finished the short story 
masterpiece, and have submitted it to 
The Shilling, you await the blissful 
day when the judges pronounce your 
story the prize one.
This contest is the most unre
stricted one imaginable. Every Car
negie Tech student from the green
est plebe to the most intelligent sen
ior, is invited to compete. And as 
to subject-matterthe range is un
limited. Heres a chance for every 
student to spout off his pet ideas and 
to get a lot of things out of his sys
temevery man may have his say 
this time.
The story must be submitted by 
March 10. The judges are faculty 
members of the English Department 
who are fostering the contest. The 
prize story is to appear in the Easter 
issue of The Shilling, and just think 
of the joy that will be yours when 
everyone on the campus is eagerly 
devouring your story.
The contest should incite many 
who have not been exercising their 
literary abilities to make a brave at
tempt. The thing to do is to write 
your story and subject, any length, 
send it to The Shilling, care of Mar
garet Morrison College, by March 10, 
and await your check for twenty dol
lars and everlasting fame.Adver
tisement.
Major J, G. Taylor Takes 
Command at R. 0. T. C.
The command of the Military De
partment has been taken over by Ma
jor James G. Taylor, Inf. (Rtd.). The 
new professor.of Military Science and 
Tactics is a distinguished soldier.
He graduated from the United 
States Military Academy In 1907. In 
addition to his service with troops, he 
was on duty at the Academy for five 
years as assistant professor of Eng
lish and History and as instructor in 
History, Economics and Government.
During the World War, Major Tay
lor served a year in France as lieu
tenant colonel on various staff duties. 
He was at various times inspector 
general of the 87th Division, inspector 
general of the Ninth Army Corps and 
inspector general at General Head
quarters.
Major Taylor was retired in 1922 
because of disability incident to the 
military service.
CLASS LEADERS MADE 
RESPONSIBLE FOR MEN
At last the girls are coming into 
thoir own on this campus. The past 
few yoars have witnessed the appear
ance of many facilities and acconi 
modatlons which have enhanced great 
ly the enjoyment of college life by 
the girls. With this new one every
thing will bo complete.
Heres the dope. In the new gym
nasium is a large room which Is 
meant to bo used by tho girls for va
rious purposes. This room is to bo 
furnished very comfortably and pleas
antly with lounges, tables, chairs and 
attractive draperies, etc. But tho 
most important feature will be the 
desks. These are to be placed there 
for each of various organizations lor 
business use. For instance, the Y. W. 
C. A. Women's Athletic Association, 
and Guild will each have desks.
This room will be available for 
meetings of all sororities, girls clubs 
and committees, and can bo used by 
individuals at any time when not in 
use for meotings. The only require
ment Is that the girls schedule meet
ings in Dr. Esquerres office in or
der to avoid conflicts.
Another feature is a small adjoin
ing room which will be equipped with 
hot plate, dishes, etc., so that tea may 
be served conveniently.
Surely this room is the ideal thing 
of its kind and will be welcomed en
thusiastically by every girl and girls 
organization.
In order to defray the expense of 
furnishing the room a campaign is be
ing conducted this week, in which the 
goal is to secure a pledge of two dol
lars from each girl. The money may 
be paid on convenient terms of twen
ty-five cents a week or so. Although 
the desired pledge is two dollars, 
smaller amounts will be acceptable.
(Continued on Page Fourl
PROF. F. CRABTREE 
MINING HEAD, DIES
Widely Known Metallurgist 
Succumbs While at St. 
Petersburg, Fla.
AT C. I. T. SINCE 1906
Professor Frederick Crantroe, head 
of the Department of Mining and 
Metallurgical Engineering lit # Car
negie Institute of Technology, died 
on Saturday, February 1*1, at St. 
Petersburg, Florida.
Professor Crabtree was born In 
Bramley, York, England, in 18G7, and 
came over to this country as a boy. 
1-Ie attendod tho Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology, ; and graduated 
with a B. S. degree|in chemistry in 
1889. In 1894 ho mitrriod Mary O. 
Moore, of McKeesport. Ho was 
chemist with the Illinois Stool Com
pany in 1889, and with the National 
Tubo Company from 1890-1900. He 
was suporlntondont of tho Western 
Steel Company, 1900-1901, and lator 
superintendent of thfc blast furnaces 
with the Colorado Fuel and Iron Com
pany until 1904. 1904 to 1900
ho was professor' of mining and 
metallurgy at tho Colorado Collogo, 
Colorado Springs. In 1900 lie caine 
to Pittsburgh Lo join tho staff of 
Carnegie Tech.
Professor Crabtree was a mombor 
of the American Institute of Mining 
and Metallurgical Engineers; Amer
ican Iron and Stool Institute; Amer
ican Eloctro Chemical Society; Amorlean Society for Stool Treating; En
gineers Society of Wostorn Penn
sylvania; and of British Iron and 
Stool Institute.
Professor Crabtree had not boon 
woll since last' fall, and duo to his 
111 hoalth had boon grantod a six 
months loavo of absoneo. Ho wont 
to Florida about two weoks ago, and 
his doath in St, PotorBburg camo as 
a shock to his numerous friends. Ho 
was ono of tho most popular mombers of tho Carnoglo faculty and his 
place cannot easily bo flllod.
Dept. Heads to Give Course 
Resume at Plebe Assemblies
Dormitory Residents Assess 
Themselves to Cover 
Expense of Plan
ACCOMODATIONS 
FOR EIGHT MEN
Two Years Have Witnessed 
Growth of Infirmary 
Idea in Dorms
The new infirmary, whlen has been 
so much talked of lately, is still a 
thing of the future, but the temporary 
infirmary, now under construction in 
the basement of McGill Hall, will soon 
be a thing of reality.
It may be of interest to traco brief
ly the development of the infirmary 
Idea in the mens dormitories. Up to 
about a year ago, sick men in tho dor
mitories took care of themselves as 
best thoy could, with the help of thoir 
friends. In the spring term of last 
year, the men voluntarily assossed 
themselves fifty cents a piece to es
tablish a fund from which trays of 
the proper kind of food could bo 
served to sick men. This yoar sovoral 
rooms havo been sot apart in Boss 
Hall, where sick men can bo cared 
for, and tho men have assossod Ihonisolves one dollar a pieco to provide 
proper food, etc. It is Interesting to 
know that sinco September, 1921, 310 
trays of food have boon, served to 68 
men. Tho intorosting part about this 
experiment is I hat it has all como 
about through tho co-oporatlon of tho 
mon with tho staff. Each ono con
cerned doos his bit willingly and 
cheerfully, and so no ono boars any 
heavy burden. A groat deal of credit 
Is duo to tho mon, and to Miss Holm, 
who has boon a medium of co-operalion between tho mon and tho admin
istration.
At present tho old club room In tho 
basomont of McGill Hall Is being re
modeled Into a temporary infirmary. 
This again has como about through 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
FRATERNITY FORMAL 
TICKET SALE BEGINS
v VIOLIN DUET TO AUGMENT 
v WEEKS CHAPEL SERVICES
*:* For the chapel services on 
* Thursday, Dr. Stuart N. HutchlI* son of the East Liberty Presby- 1
* terlan Church. Penn and High* land avenues, East End, has boon  
engaged. Dr. Hutchison is well  
known at Carnegie and his many 
*> friends will bo on hand to hear  
! his sermon.
I* Thursdays chapel will mark a  
v departure in tho usual program < 
in that a violin duet will bo 
* played by Ida Waldron and  
*! Imeldra Rlnkonbergor, both of  
I* tho Music Department. Alice <
* Long will be organist.
MUSICAL REVUE 
WILL DISPLACE 
DRAMA FOR C.W.
PI DELTA EPSILON 
CALLS EIGHT MEN
Dr. Baker Announces Mem
bers Chosen For Honorary 
Journalistic Frat
Suggestions or Contributions 
From Students Asked 
by Committee
OBIE NEWMAN TO 
HEAD COMMITTEE
Public Reading of Play Will 
be Held When 
Selected
FIRST |CALL OF YEAR
Assembly for Engineering and In 
dustrles Freshmen will bo held today 
at the usual hour, 11:30 a. m., in In
dustries 104. Dean Day will preside 
at the assembly.
Professor Trlnks, head of the Me
chanical Engineering Department, 
and Professor McCullough, head of 
the Civil Engineering Department, 
will address the class on the possi
bilities and value of the respective 
courses of which they are the heads.
Representatives from the different 
departments of Industries and Science 
will speak at the four following as
semblies in the following order: 
February 24, Dr. James, Chemistry 
Department, and Professor Leeds of 
the Machine Production Department, 
will speak. On March 3, the assem
bly will be addressed by Director 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Part! Bowron and his commlttoo 
havo added another responsibility to 
their already hefty bundle. Ticket. 
for tho Intorfratornlty Formal wore 
put on sale last Saturday at ovory 
fraternity house on tho campus and 
tho constant Inrush of flvo dollar bills 
from Grooks for tuna to enough to hold 
first' mortgages on tuxedos has aliuont 
swamped thom.
Tho choice of an orchestra for tho 
darico has not yot boon decided. Tho 
choice will probably llo bolwoon two 
woll known orchostras at prosont 
playing in Clovoland; but Hines Or
chestra, which has twice furnished 
music for Carnoglo dancos this wintor Is still under consideration. Tho 
committee hopos to roach a decision 
within tho next woolt.
Practically tho ontlro first floor of 
tho Hotel Schenley 1ms boon engagod 
for tho Grook party, which promlaos 
to be tho host over". The commit
tee Is detormlned to surpass last 
year's formal, which was hold In the 
University Club. The decorations as 
planned aro in keeping with tho artis
tic furnishings of the Schenley. Wlillo 
the committee is reluctant to give 
out any information concerning tho 
favors, they are sure that they will 
please.
It is significant that no breakage 
deposit will be required of those at
tending the formal. Those attending 
are expected to act like the ladles and 
gentlement fond papas and mamas 
believe them to be. As such they 
should not use the windows for exits 
nor test the crushing strength of tho 
hotel china.
The date is March 13, from nine to 
two, Hotel Schenley, and the tax five 
dollars. The Tartan will soon publish 
the announcement of the orchestra.
Eight mon representing tho tliroo 
schools were pledged to tho national 
honorary journalistic fraternity, PI 
Delta Epsilon, at the general assem
bly last Tuesday. Dr. Balcor, an hon
orary member, annouiicod tho pledges 
as thoy wore awarded tho plodgo pins 
and woro congratulated by tho frator* 
nity membors.
A. W. Balir, Sonlor printer, circula
tion managor ol the Puppet and mom
bor or Alpha Tau Omogu; William I'. 
Bitlor, oditor of tho Tochnlcal Jour
nal, and Sonlor chomlst; Curtis Col
vin, Art oditor of tho Puppet, Sonlor 
P. & 1., and mombor of Sigma Nu; 
Fred T. Phelps, Sonlor prlntor, man
aging oditor of tho Tartan, Alpha Tau, 
chairman of Industries smoker and 
mombor of Alpha Tau Omoga; Nelson 
IT. Poo, Junior commercial, advertis
ing manager tho Technical Journal, 
Tliota Tau, and mombor of Alpha Tau 
Omega; Fred Rossini, Sonlor Chem
ical onglnoor, associato oditor of the 
Tartan, huslnoss manager of tho Car
noglo Song Book, Tau Bota PI, chair
man Scionco stag, and member of 
Phi Kappa; V. H. Smith, Junior CMvll 
Engineer, nows editor of the Tartan, 
and mombor of Phi Kappa and of 
Tliota Tau; It. E, Winters, Junior Ar
chitect, Senior editor of the Thistle, 
and mombor of 1*1 Kappa Alpha, woro 
called. Two of thoao callod aro from 
tho Arts School, two from Industries 
and four from Scianco.
(Continued on Page Two.)
CARNEGIE Y.M.C.A. TO 
CASH STUDENTS CHECKS
On recommendation or the Disclp. 
line Committee, approved by the Ex
ecutive Board January 4, 1925, the 
regulations concerning interference 
with classes was amplified by the ad
dition of the following paragraphs, 
with the understanding that the new 
regulation will go Into effect next 
September:
The committee will regard any 
unauthorized student event which In 
terferes with the official class sche
dule as a violation of the above regu
lation, and will penalize the elected 
officers of the class or classes, or the 
officers of the organization responsi
ble for the occurrence, unless the Stu
dent Council shall, In the opinion of 
the Discipline Committee, take ade
quate action, or shall present to the 
committee the names of the student 
or students responsible for the infrac
tion of the rules.
In the 1924-25 'White Book 
the original regulation concern
ing interference with classes 
reads as follows: No student or 
group of students shall prevent 
(Continued on Page Two.)
LaRevue Moderne Favorably Criticizes
Professor Charles ]ay Taylors Painting
Repose as Showing Careful Study of Masters
In a recent issue of the Faculty 
Bulletin of Carnegie, a number of in
teresting comments are made on the 
many achievements of the members 
of our faculty and administration. 
One of them, quite worthy of repe
tition, is a criticism by tho La Re
vue Moderne* of Paris, of the paint
ing Repose by Prof. Charlos, Jay 
Taylor, head of tho Department of 
Painting and Illustration. In dis
cussing this painting, La Revue" 
has the following to say:
There exists at this time In Amer
ica an extremely interesting artistic 
movement, tho evolution of which we 
should follow with much care be
cause the inspiration of it has been 
and remains French art. It is the 
study of our great painters since Le 
Pousin, of Corot, the school of Barbizon and Millet, Cezanne and the im
pressionists which haB given the im
pulse to these painters whom we see 
exhibiting in America. The most 
characteristic among the American
exhibitions is that of Pittsburgh. One 
sees there always some very beauti
ful things which show eloquently how 
developed Is artistic education In this 
country.
Of tho number of painters who this 
year offer proof of greater personal
ity and truly Interesting originality, 
Mr. Charlos Jay Taylor, the painter 
of Repose, Is especially to bo nolfcd. 
In this painting one finds tho in
fluence of Millet and of Monet, tho
samo broad conception, the same 
sense of life, the samo vigorous 
touch, a little brutal, perhaps, but 
eloquent. One fools that one Is here 
dealing with the temperament of the 
born artist whom theories may
cause to develop, but not modify pro
foundly.
Mr. Charles Jay Taylor paints
! everything naturally; he looks, he ob! serves, and he tries to express what 
! he sees as exactly as possible. His 
painting is not Intellectual but pure| ly descriptive, and the richness of the
coloring is not destroyed by a lack 
of design, as often happens. This 
abandonment of form which has 
caused the decadence in Impression 
has not in this case affected the man
ner of the artist, and this firmness 
permits him to construct upon a solid 
foundation, tho only possible basis.
It Is to he hoped that' tho partici
pation of such artists in our salons 
will ho brought about. Their example 
would counteract certain extrava* 
gences christened with the name of 
researches, which are the most dang
erous enemies of art sub as It should 
be understood.
This citation of the art of ProfoaI sor Taylor by a foreign and disinter
ested observer is of decided interest 
to tho followers of Carnegie. It calls 
attention to tho sure progress which 
we are making toward, not only a 
national, but an International reputa
tion. President Baker in his latest 
annual report, expressed the hope 
(Continued on Page Four)
Tho Carnegie brunch of tho Y, M.
C. A. announces that it will start 
cashing chocks, monoy ordors, otc,, 
for tho students In tho very near 
future. Chocks will bo cashed at tho 
"Y offlco near tho Central building 
every Monday, Wednesday and Fri
day, botwoon tho hours of 11:30 and 
1:30. The amount paid immediately 
on each choolc is not to oxcood ton 
dollars. Ilowovor, as soon as tho 
check has cleared tho cloarlng houso, 
tho balance will bo paid. As a rule, 
this procoduro takes only a day or 
so. Registration cards must bo pre
sented with tho check.
Tho Y. M. C. A. will bo doing a 
fine thing for the students by add
ing this convenience nt Carnoglo. 
Since tho cashlor has stopped stu
dent hanking, it lias been exceedingly 
difficult for the students to cash 
checks. Cashing checks at any of 
the neighboring banks 1s such a dif
ficult proceeding that it is practically 
Impossible for the average student to 
do so. This new plan will be a great 
convenience to tho student body.
PROF. MILLET SEEKS 
DEGREE AT CHICAGO
Professor Fred B. Millet, of tho 
Department of English at Carnegie, 
left last Sunday for the University of 
Chicago, to spend this semester in 
writing, and in the preparing of a 
thesis for a doctors degree. During 
his absence Mr. Millets classes will 
be taken by Mr. Thomas E. Mooro, 
recently appointed Assistant Professor of English.
After receiving his A, T*. degreo at 
Amherst In 1912, Mr. Millet became 
Instructor of English at Queens Col
lege, remaining there #uiUll 191(1, 
when lias was made Fellow in Uni
versityof Chicago. He came to Car
negie In 1910 as Assistant Professor 
of English, Instructing classes 1n 
English I, English II, and Dramatic 
Literature. He will resumo his work 
at Carnoglo next fall, after this short 
leave of absence.
Mr. Moore, who will conduct Mr. 
Millets classes during the lattors ab
sence, comes to Carnegie aftor ex; tensive study In Kansas and Harvard 
' Universities. His appointment means 
; a valuable addition to the English 
: Department, for he Is a professor 
j of adequate training with several 
j years of teaching experience.
It baa been definitely decided that 
tho play for Campus Week this year 
will be a musical comedy, and sug
gestions, songs, and plays are re
quested of tho students. Any idea 
which can be used will be apprecia
ted by the committee, and studonts 
aro urged to submit thom at once.
Ohio Newman has boon chosen 
head of the Play Committee, and all 
communications should bo addressed 
to him, care of tho Carnoglo Tech 
Post Office. It is tho liopo of the 
Committee that the play tills year 
may bo more roprosontatlvo of Car
noglo Tocli than those in tho past. 
Though tlio Drama Dopartmont will 
havo to havo tho biggost part, thero 
are ninny minor rolos, and tho chorus 
which may well bo choson from studonts In tho othor three schools.
In addition, a musical comody writ
ten by Carnoglo studonts Is bound to 
have moro collogo atmosphoro than 
any play taken from tho outside, and 
It Is with this IdOft In mind that tho 
conimlttoo is asking tho studonts to 
submit manuscripts.
Wlillo It. is tliroo months until 
Campus Weolc, there is such a mass 
of dotall and rehoarsal to bo taken 
caro of In a production of this typo 
that tho play must bo chonon as soon 
as possible. Song writers aro espec
ially In demand. Anyone who can 
write songs, should soo Ohio New
man as soon as possible in order to 
get an Idea of the kind of material 
that will bo required.
As mentioned boforo the commit
tee would like to have a play written 
by Carnoglo students if possible, and 
every moans will bo taken to get 
such a play boforo the icommittee 
lakes one written by an outsider. 
Any suggestion, no 'matter how small 
will be welcomed.
Another Innovation, of this years 
play, will COS a public reading1 of tho 
play which Is accopted. This will 
make It posslblo for any student in 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Exchange Number of 
Puppet Out This Week
Wit of Country's Best College 
Comics Features Issue
Tho Exchange Number of the Pup
pet will soon mako its appearance on 
tho campus. This Issue Is bigger 
than ovor, and has novor boon oxcollod In the enhancing boauty, tho 
delightful audacity, and tho number 
of its cuts. Tho chorus girl in all of 
her natural and acqulrod boauty is 
oxompllfiod in a cut taken from 
Judge, which will bring back fond 
meinorios of the night you saw tho 
Follios, or wll show you what you 
havo missed if you didn't soo thom.
This isuo of tho Puppet will have 
a "boar of a cover" which is truly 
a work of art such as only Barney 
Goldstein could orlginato. Barnoy is 
an alumnus, and has proved himself 
to be one of tho cleverest artists Car
negie ever produced. If you care for 
further proof of his artistic ability, 
just recall the middle cut of Puppets 
Prom Number, all of which is Barn
eys own creation.
You really cant afford to miss Pup
pets Exchange Number, for In addi
tion to a number of fascinating cuts, 
it will contain a resume of the best 
jokes from the humorous periodicals 
of tho greatest schools in the coun
try. Those who buy one will see 
how Carnegie wit compares with 
that of othor colleges.
Tickets on Sale Now For 
Last Big Sophmore Hop
Tho ticket sale for tho >oph Hop 
was begun last Tuesday and is now 
well under way. The number of tick
ets Is limited, and those who wish to 
go aro advlsod to purchase thom at 
thoir earliest posslblo convenience. 
Thoy may be secured from members 
of tho commlttoo, of which James 
Torney Is chairman. This will bo tho 
last big Soph Hop, as tho faculty, 
have alroady taken action to provont 
uch grandour in tho futuro. Tho 
commlttoo is aiming to mako It a 
good party while thoy havo tho op
portunity to do so.
Of course the more mention of Tod 
Weenw marks tho Hop us an assured 
success. Such a popular, talented 
bunch of syncopators could not help 
I stirring even the, most indifferent 
; prof to trip on tho light fantastic.
J And with the addition of such a mag! nificent setting as the ^Vllllam Penn 
Bullroom, the success of the Hop can 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, rtBRUARY 18, 1925
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of tho Student Council.
Entered In the Postofflco of Pittsburgh an second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH...................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROGH __________E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL 8TAFF 
L. II. Harri A. F. Carson R. R. Sltxler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS................................................................................Schonley 9102
NEW8 EDITORS
W. WINNING .......................................................................................Schenley 1)070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin G547-J
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS...............................................................................................Schenley 180
REPORTER8
R. L. Leppor, M. IIolllnnhead, M. Dutt, E. Tall mad go, M. Tucker, It. Hand, 
C. J. Byrne, S. P. William, N. Borzolla, M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. 
MSPLI II. L. Myers, L. V. Twohlg, F. Finn, F. A. Kolb, A. V. Nern, A. Wlngold, 
L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Klmmel.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF .....................................................................................Schenley f>28f>
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
William Bernardi, B. Kristof.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON.......................................................................................Schenley 1)2X1
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER .......................................................................................Schenley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
JDJ MOSKOVITZ ......................................................................................Ha/el 2873-M
BUSINE8S ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodnor, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauorle, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perroton, G. H. Carl. B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. 
Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbble.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho mako up.
Tho Tartan welcome all communication of student Intercut, if signed. 
Signature will bo withhold If doBlred. All now items must be In tho student 
post ofllco before 4:30 Thursduy.
Tartan OfllceRoom 12, Industries Building. Ofllce hourDally 12:30- 
1:20.
CUTS
The Carnegie Tartan has received a letter calling the editors at
tention to the fact that while he criticised the present lack ol: a cut 
system he proposed no remedy, and quoted an editorial to the effect 
that itr ono cant suggest a remedy, one shouldn't knock the estab
lished system.
Wo humbly acknowledge our trespass in this instance and in 
reply, we offer the J'ollowing suggestions for a cut system. It is al
most identical with that in use in a certain school, the name of which 
will be furnished upon request.
Tho rule, as it would appear in the white book would be as 
as follows:
No excuses for absence from class shall bo requested by the 
instructor, or given by the student, until the number ol! absences ex
ceeds twice the number of times the class is scheduled to .meet per 
week.
When the number of absences is in excess of this number, a writ
ten excuse must be given the instructor signed by Dr. Marks, and the 
Dean, ol! the College in which the absences occur,
II', at any time, the excessive cuts aro not excused, the student 
shall be required to make a verbal explanation of his absence to the 
Dean of Men.
Should tho number oi! cuts excced twenty per cent of the total 
number ol! scheduled hours in tho subject for the semester, the stu
dent shall automatically be barred from taking the examination, and 
shall receive an 11 in tho course.
If, at tho end ol! the semester, a student has some of tho allowed 
number ol! cuts in a course still unused, a number of his lowest daily 
grades equal to the number of cuts still unused shall be removed from 
the grade boojc, and the average of the daily recitations remaining 
shall bo used in computing his semester grado.
To give nn example: Supposo a man is taking English three 
timos per week. Ho is allowed six outs per semester. II! he exceeds 
that number, it is scarcely possible for him to get an excuse without 
going up before tho dean, for a much more stringent system would bo 
installed in Dr. Marks ofilco.
Suppose, on the othor hand, he takes only throe outs. This 
loaves him tliroo under the allowed number. Then, at tho ond of the 
Homester, the iuHtructor would strike oil! his throe lowest daily grades, 
and mako up the daily.average without thom. 'Phis would furnish a 
stimulus for the student to attend1 classes.
It is high time that Carnegie install some system. Not this one 
neeossarily, but one like it. Our attendance to elassos would bo much 
moro regular, for tho ease with, which ono can obtain excuses under 
the present system makes it too easy to cut elasses.
Y. M. O. A.
Tho Y has instituted a. plan which is bound to be welcomed by 
all students on the Campus that of cashing checlts as long as they 
are under ten dollars. All students at sonic time or another find 
themselves in the position of needing a small sum of cash and here
tofore they could not get it without going down to Oakland to the 
bank.
The Y will cash checks for any student, whether he be a dorm 
man, fraternity man, or city man. Some day we will have a student 
bank at Carnegie Tech. Its a. logical development. Until that day 
comes the Y will help a lot by cashing the smaller checks.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 17 AND 18
Anne Pcdersdotter.....................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 19
Chapel.............................................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
Anne Pedersdotter....................................S:15 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 20
Anne Pedersdotter..................................8:15 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 21
Basket BallPlebes vs. Kiski...........................8:00 P. M., Gymnasium
Cosmopolitan Club Dance................:.........................8:30 P. M., Union
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Basket. BallNotre Dame.................................8:00 P. M., Gymnasium
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 26
Chapel...:..................................;....................12.50 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27 
Basket BallPlebes vs. W. & J. Freshmen.
Varsity vs. W. & !......................7 :Q0 P. M., Gymnasium
AVomens Junior Prom.............9:00 P. M., Schenley Hotel
. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 2S 
Basket BallWest Virginia Wesleyan............8:00 P. M., Gymnasium
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
EDITORIALS............I MvBasket Ba.ll.TT..
TICKETS ON SALE NOW FOR
LASIT BIG SOPHOMORE HOP
1 0 , (Continued From Pago One.) 
not (be doubted by even the most 
skeptical of us.
The programs, which aro most at
tractive, lmve already boon selected. 
As an additional entertainment;, the 
committee is endeavoring to secure 
the two pickaninnies who scored 
such a hit in their stunts at tho Arts 
Ball. And when one considers the 
magnificence of tho William Penn 
Ballroom, the caliber of such music
ians as Ted Weems Orchestra, and 
the addition of a number of novel fea-v 
tures, an assessment of three-fifty 
seems most reasonable. Dont forget, 
this is the last big Soph Hop, so you 
really cant afford to miss it.
PI DELTA EPSILON
CALLS PLEDGES AT
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page One.)
Tho local dmpter ol' tho only na
tional Journalistic fraternity In exist
ence, Pi Delta. Epsilon, was Installed 
in 1922 when Alpha Alpha Nu, a local 
literary fraternity, became national. 
PI Delta Epsilon now has twenty, 
seven chapters.
Mon aro selected twice yearly from 
those engaged in. journalistic work. 
The fraternity serves as an advisory 
board for all campus publications.
He: "You are the very breath of my 
life.
She: -Let's see how long you can 
hold your breath.
With the Impression growing 
stronger every day that England 1b 
Boon to return to a gold basis, our 
fears about delayed normalcy and 
bad international buslne conditions 
have been temporarily allayed. Such 
a step would be a boom to tho stab
ilization of general business. To 
fully return to a gold basis means 
as far as England is concerned that 
she must
(1) Remove the embargo on tho 
export of gold.
(2) Come back to her pre-war 
status of tho free minting of 
gold at the standard price.
(3) Be able to convert the paper 
pound into gold pounds.
Tho United States was the only one 
of tfie big Beligerent and Allied 
Countries that kept to a gold basis. 
The failure to be able to do this was 
ono of the causes of defatlon and the 
great slump In exchange rates. The 
rates on England In 11)22 was down 
as low as '.44, par being 4.8G6. At 
the present time exchange in Eng
land is selling around -1.77, much 
higher than business conditions 
would ordinarily send It, for just now 
with no interest dates or regular 
times for payments of bills the rate 
has a tendency to fall. Two factors 
can be seen, however, that aid this 
upward movement, the large loans 
made abroad by this country and 
what Is even more important, the 
psychological effect of the rumor 
that the basis of gold is to be re
turned to.
The exchange may become normal 
by itself, by the mero working out of 
the trade balance, but unless a gold 
standard Is reverted to this can be 
only temporary and there is bound 
to be constant fluctuations. Such a 
situation is bad, and looking at it 
from another point of view, England 
can best servo the interests of strug
gling Europe by putting her own cur
rency on as sound a basis as possible.
Again tho debt. This is still the 
most; absorbing and pertinent of 
European questions despite tho as
surance of thp backers of the Dawes 
plan and tho *81100083 of tho nations 
ever coming together on a common 
bargaining basis will only be when 
their points of view are more famil
iar than at the present moment. 
There still remains the paramount 
obstacle, that of controverting 
France to the idea that regardless of 
what she gets from Germany, her 
debt to England and tho United 
States must bo paid . . . France feels 
that this means tho loss Germany 
pays tho moro slio herself has t.o pay 
which is obviously unfair and more 
than this slio becomes the only coun
try vitally Interested in German re
parations. France then stands alone 
again and that she dare not do.
America Is vitally lnt.orost.od in tho 
payment by Germany, for we aro to 
get 2l/t per cent of all reparations 
paid under the Dawes plan, tho larg
er part of England's debt to us from 
Germany through Franco. Frances 
debt to us must be paid out. of Ger
many's funds, and Italy has Indicated 
that slio can only pay upon the col
lodion of her war indemnities. 
Francos position, theroforo, Is somowliat nil warrant ed, yet doesn't it go 
back to the old attitude of her fear
ing Germany, fearing that the rest 
of the world will leavo her stranded, 
unable to hold her own and thus al
ways on the defensive.
The Dawes plan Is not thought, of 
In Europe as tho panacea for all Ills, 
Franco oven believing that pressuro 
and force are the only way out of tho 
dllenma. Our own opinion Is then 
that at. present Germany is tho key 
to the situation, but that she will 
only bogln to pay In earnest when 
the reparation total Is cut down to 
a figure that will Induce them to soo 
that by steadily working they can pay 
off the debt, in a reasonable time.
Just twelve months after the big 
drop in tho French franc which was 
bolstered up by the Morgan loan, the 
exchange rate slumped again and dis
concerted the entire French financial 
circles. The l'rane dropped four 
points, selling 94 francs to the Eng
lish pound and 19.5 to the American 
dollar. The reason for this slump 
just now is fairly evidenta lack of 
confidence in their own currency re
sulting in the exporting of 14,000.000 
francs within three months, and 
what is more important, 22,000,000,- 
000 francs of government securities 
come due this year and the greater 
part of the people are cashing them 
in. It all boils down to the ques
tion of balancing the budget. With 
huge expense and not daring to raise 
the tax rate the only two alternatives 
are to borrow 011 some more paper 
which leads to the same result, infla
tion and a fall in the exchange. It. 
is a natural economic law working 
and France must cut her expenses, 
her army and the continuation of the 
army of occupation coupled with 
costs of reconstruction if she wants 
to get on her feet financially. 
MISICAL REVIEW WILL DIS
PLACE DRAMA FOR C. W.
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
school, who would like a part, to try 
out for the east. In addition, it will 
serve to work up Interest among the 
studonts by showing them just, how 
good tho show will bo tills year.
All students who have shown any 
talent in tills work will be especially 
Invited to the reading by the com
mittee, and any student Interested 
who Is not invited should take it. upon 
himself to be there. The idea is to 
make tho show this year the best 
which has ever been held by making 
It a more representative production, 
and at tho samo time, one which is 
in harmony with the spirit of Cam
pus Week.
It means a lot of work, and the 
committee needs the cooperation of 
the students.
ARTS PLAYS
*1
GREEK RITUAL DRAMA AGAIN
There 1P no wisdom in discussing a 
Greek play from a merely aesthetic 
standpoint. It is religious expression, 
or it is nothing. Art in its highest 
always passes beyond our conscious
ness of every day into those strange 
cosmic perceptions wherein the artist 
becomes one with the seer and mys
tic. Greece succeeded in giving form 
to those perceptions as no modern na
tion has done. Therefore one may 
deal with Greek art only as with the 
things of the soul. Those who at
tempt an Intellectual approach fall 
into the limbo of neoclassicism, dead
ening their own creativeness by ad
miration of a dated excellence of 
form, when it should have been quick
ened by worship of a timeless spirit.
Our FreBhmen class has enacted for 
us the spiritual drama of Iphigenia in 
Tauris. Let us first thank them, and 
then consider both what they have 
accomplished and what of its mystery 
remains beyond their grasp.
All that yfiuth could do they have 
done. They have loved the play so 
well that their sincere feeling made 
us forget immature technique and 
(hardest of all) forget American mid
dle class pronunciation.
First let us thank the chorus. Slow
ly they moved between the tall, col
umns, against the blue Aegean sky, in 
the traditional groupings of a Grecian 
urn. "Thou yet unravished bride of 
quietness. Well taught? Yes. All 
acknowledgement to Mr. Wallace and 
Mine. Karpova. But I think the girls 
really understand what they were 
taught. Incredible as it may seem, 
these bobbed-liaired products of our 
unmannerly and unbeautiful present 
actually understood liow gracious a 
thing was maidenhood, walking softly 
in silent holy templeB, long ago. The 
gently clinging hands, the graceful 
meetings and partings had ritual dig
nity but 110 self consciousness. The 
chorus moved as though they loved 
beautiful and reverent movement.
One was apprehensive when they 
began to speak, remembering what 
American enunciation is like. Well, 
it was not so bad; candidly, no worse 
than the upperclassmen. No one han
dled the subtler rhythme quite right. 
Bufthat is a matter of long training in 
the magic of rhythmic speech. Pure 
vowels and accurate consonants are 
Loo much to hope for, living as we do 
under an educational system which 
worships and exemplifies mediocrity 
in all things. The speech we hear 
around us in its impoverished vocabu
lary and slovenly enunciation should 
disgrace an intelligent child of three. 
What can such a community expect 
from its young people when they go 
on tho stage? They do very well in
deed, considering what they have had 
to listeii to from their youth up.
For this chorus sincerity wrought a 
mlrticle. However undistinguished 
their enunciation, they did evidently 
feel what thoy spoke. So we felt, too; 
and the chorus became what it should 
bo, tho voice of/ou;- own hearts as we 
shared the lives ol the protagonists. 
"Surely we pity theeaye, and re
joice with thoo.
The lesser parts joined the chorus 
in building an atmosphere of sincere 
emotion behind tho main action. In
deed it is not a little thing that even 
tho soldiers watched with their faces 
alive with feeling. Walter Rogers as 
tho Herdsman gave very vividly both 
tho straight narrative and the person
ation of tho mad Orestes. Woods was 
weaker in the personation, but told 
tho story as a peasant might, with a 
simple eagerness that was very con
vincing. Tho two Kings, Gorrit liraher and Donald McClure, woro similar 
11 their interpretation, and both 
aught admirably tho meaning of tho 
role; Its child like savage piety and 
submission. They played It with Just 
the right touch of humor. Tho Mesngors, again, wore different in their 
Interpretation, but all three, Wilson, 
Greenberg and Sollors, wore adequate. 
Mossongers in Crook tragedy are dif
ficult to act, and important. They aro 
the accepted device for preserving the 
unity of place by keeping the audience 
informed of such action as must hap
pen off stage, often the most import
ant part of the plot. They must toll a 
long tale vividly and naturally, and be 
themselves something more than a 
mechanism, else the play lapses. All 
three actors met their requirement. 
The Goddess is another difficulty, es
pecially as our world does not under
stand the dea ex macliina. One 
watched with interest for the attempt. 
Good staging helped. Thunder, and 
shrieks of women. Then Helene Her
manns voice, incredibly peaceful, soft, 
yet with perfect carrying power. Leah 
Rothman gestured a little better, and 
Esther Leisch had some good read
ings of her own, but Helenes voice! 
A goddess speaketli, and thy heart 
must hear.
Esther McGuires is another voice 
which is a thing to thank God on. 
And her reading was vivid. She gave 
us the most emotional of the three 
Iphigenias. She was the passionate, 
suffering, impulsive woman, as Lu
cille Welch was the royal priestess, 
worn by long exile, alternating be
tween tenderness and bitterness. 
Alyne Szold gave yet a third interpre
tation, the wistful pathos of the cap
tive maiden. Her youth, not quite in 
character, nevertheless lent poignancy 
to the interpretation.
I am in 110 position to speak critic
ally of Max Slioles Orestes, for 
throughout his more important 
speoches I wopt. unashamed, quite tho 
first tlmo such a thing has happened 
to mo in tho Arts Theater. Nor was 
I alono In it. Woll, why should wo 
In tho audience not weep? That night 
know the tears'of Orestes were 
real. Max Sholes paid a price for 
moving us; I10 gavo us his own heart.
So, 1 think, did the other two, al
though acting is not yet for them so 
clear a medium for tho transmission 
of feeling. But both gave interpreta
tions that were absolutely individual 
and moving. Robert Pike played an 
Orestes repressed, embittered, a man 
who had learned restraint before the 
world, revealing himself only in mo
ments of uncontrollable suffering. 
Ramon Savich was almost the oppo
site, and his interpretation was perMcCLURE SPEAKS 
ON TIMELY TOPICS
Famous. Publisher Discusses 
Striking World Conditions 
of Today
Emphasizing the questions of the 
conflict of races and the place of the 
United States in world relations, Mr. 
S. S. McClure, founder and editor of 
"McClures Magazine, delivered an 
interesting lecture on World Condi
tions Today," at General Assembly 
last Tuesday.
Before proceeding to the main 
pointa of his address, Mr. McClure 
established a firm foundation of his
torical facts. He followed the develop
ment of the British Empire, the as
cendancy of English-speaking peo
ples, showing how aggression and 
good fortune had brought them into 
possession of over half the worlds 
wealth, and one-third of the worlds 
area. He explained the conception 
of the United States Government, the 
unique situations that faced Amer
ica, and the masterful way in which 
our difficulties were overcome. Of 
our forefathers he said, "It is hard 
to find in a study of all history a 
body of abler or wiser statesmen 
than that which founded the United 
States. He emphasized our good 
luck, and the richness of our heri
tage. He brought out the fact that 
"the world of today is really an ex
tended Europe, only Japan being a 
really independent nation, and there
fore confronting us as the source of 
our principal problems.
Having established these facts in 
an introduction entirely dispropor
tionate to his discussion on the 
chosen subject, Mr. McClure went on 
to present modern international sit
uations. His views were very liberal 
and board-minded. He attempted to 
force no decisions on his audience, 
merely laying the facts before them 
for. consideration. He aired 110 per
sonal views, but rather admitted the 
impossibility of deciding a fair stand 
on the problems. He used many ab
stracts from the works of his. con
temporary critics to substantiate his 
statements.
Mr. McClure first discussed the 
Asiatic problem. He brought out the 
facts that the Asiatics are crowded 
to the point of starvation, that their 
unfavorable balance of trade is in
creasing, that the percentage of illi
terates in Japan is much lower than 
in the United States, and that the 
Asiatics far outnumber the rest or 
the world, though confined to less 
than one-fourth of the world's land 
area. He said: One cannot study
the world or world conditions and 
not conclude that the Japanese are 
right in their demand for a greater 
share of the worlds surface.
1-Ie then developed the other side 
of the question, the fact that non
intermarriage of races living togeth
er develops race hatred, but inter
marriage degrades both races. "So 
both Japan and we are right, he 
concluded, "and where right is 
against right, the right with the 
strongest backing wins out.
Mr. McClures great fault was in 
choosing a subject rather unfamiliar 
to his audience, necessitating a little 
time for the development of his 
theme. Tho great redeeming feature 
was tho fact that he dealt with na
tions and peoples not as great bodies 
to be moved or removed at the word 
of a few diplomats, but as human 
beings, each with Ills own rights and 
desires. He took full account of hu
man nature in suggesting solutions 
for our problems.
SCHENLEY THEATER
The musical attraction supplement
ing the photoplay program at the 
Schenley this week is Charles 
Schmitts "Miamians Orchestra un
der the direction of Marie Maurice, 
the worlds leading lady cornetist.
Gloria Swanson in "Zaza will be 
presented on the screen on Monday 
and Tuesday. Gloria Swanson is 
cast in her best role as Zaza, queen 
of the gay French music halls, a crea
ture of whirl-wind emotions, savage 
loves and hates, a veritable wildcat.
On Wednesday and Thursday, 
Thomas Meighan in The Confidence 
Man will be the feature photoplay 
attraction. It is a clever crook ro
mance, personally selected by Mr. 
Meighan out of a thousand stories.
James Kirkwood, Madge Bellamy 
and Zazu Pitts appear in "S'ecrets of 
the Night on Friday and Saturday. 
The story is adapted from the sensa
tional stage success by Guy Bolton 
and Max Marcin.
SENIOR CIVILS HEAR TALK
ON PAVING MATERIALS
Mr. Brown of the Warren Company, 
manufacturers of the Warrenite Bitulitliic Paving Material, gave a talk, 
illustrated with slides, to the Senior 
Civils.
haps the most historical of the three. 
He played the mad Orestes, the young 
prince who is fighting for his sanity 
at death grips with the Powers of 
Hell. He alone seemed to have just 
como through the terrible nervous 
paroxysm of the Herdsmans tale, and 
something in his manner, the wistful 
appeal and unrestraint of youth, made 
ono think of a child lost in dark cav
erns. If I10 had shadod his part more, 
not played it fortissimo from begin
ning to end. he could have made clear 
11 really poignant and powerful inter
pretation.
Both Durbin ITomor and Charles 
Webster played the supporting role 
of Pylades with intelligence and sim
plicity of feeling, making him poised 
and sympathetic, well subordinated to 
the main action but not colorless. Tho 
musical accompaniment was excellent.
I have never heard that effect better 
managed. It stole into the silences 
and under the words, solemn and yet 
natural as the sound of the Friendless 
Sea 011 the shore of Tauris.
Our Freshmen have done well. To j 
ALLENE GREGORY. !
NORSE PLAY OPENS IN 
ARTS THEATER TODAYAround-World Fliers 
Talk in Arts Theater
The first performance of "Anne 
Pedersdotter will be given in the 
Little Theater tonight. This latest 
play to be staged by the Drama De
partment deals with the religious fan
aticism attendant on the Protestant 
Reformation. It was translated from 
the Norwegian of H. Wiers-Jenssen 
by John Masefield.
The scene is laid in Sweden, where 
the repressed Northern people entered 
into the new spirit of reform with an 
unusual degree of emotional fervor. 
The plot is built about a woman, Anne 
Pedersdotter, who has married a 
priest of the reformed religion. This 
man has a son by a former marriage, 
who soon after his fathers marriage 
to Anne, returns to his home, from 
school.
Anne becomes infatuated with the 
youth, so much so that in order to re
move any obstacle from the path of 
their love, she causes, by the dark 
powers of witchcraft, of which she has 
control, the death of her husband.
The most dramatic scene of the play 
is in the cathedral, where the body of 
the slain man is taken for burial. 
Here Anne is denounced, and admits 
her crime, and practice of the arts 
of black magic.
In the cast are: Marion Beeson,
Ben Weinblatt, Emerson Hall, Claire j 
Schellhaise, Maury Tuckerman, Lloyd 
Yoder, .Toe Gessner, Phil Thorn, Har
old Minor, F. Leon Ford, Dorothy Co
hen, Allene Gregory and Peg Eckhart.
The incidental music is being ar
ranged by John Conway.
The Department of Drama is also 
rehearsing a play, False Gods, in 
which the leads are taken'by Hardie 
Hunter Albright and Verner Haldene. 
Besides this play, there are in pro
cess of preparation a series of one; 
act plays, which will be announced 
later.
Lieuts. Wade and Arnold 
Give Story of Famous Trip
PUT INFIRMARY IN
McGILL HALL BASEMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
the co-operation of the men, who have 
undertaken to equip this infirmary to 
the best of their ability, if the admin
istration provided the necessary 
rooms. When finished the infirmary 
will contain four bedrooms and a sit
ting room, and will accommodate a 
limited number of men. It will be op
erated 011 somewhat the same plan as 
in used at present.
The plan for the permanent infirm
ary has been submitted to and is un
der consideration by the administra
tion. It is earnestly hoped that at 
an early date Carnegie may have a 
real infirmary building, which is so 
badly needed, and that the spirit of 
helpfulness and co-operation which 
has accomplished so much toward this 
end, may continue to exist. 
DEPARTMENT HEADS TO
GIVE COURSE RESUME
AT PLEBE ASSEMBLIES
(Continued From Page One.) 
Mott of the Science School. Professor 
Work, head of the Electrical Engineer
ing Department, and Professor Dunnells of the Building Construction De
partment, will speak von March 17. 
The assembly of March 24 will be ad
dressed by Professor Crabtree of the 
Mining and Metallurgical Department, 
and by Professor I-Iower of the 
Physics Department.
CLASS LEADERS MADE
RESPONSIBLE FOR MEN
(Continued From Page One.) 
any student or group of students 
from attending classes, or inter
fere with classes in any way, un
der penalty of suspension not to 
exceed ono year.
"Suspension of the schedule for a 
student event of any description must 
be petitioned for in advance by the 
Student Council to the Executive 
Board, through the Deans of Men and 
Women.
"I think that a street car has just 
passed.
How do you know?
I can see its tracks.
^Mud Pie.
Carnegie Tech was the host to two 
of the most distinguished men of pre
sent day areonautics last Friday af
ternoon when Lieutenants Leslie P. 
Arnold and Leigh Wade, two of the 
eight members of the memorable 
world flight spoke to a small but at
tentive and enthusiastic audience at 
the Little Theater.
The two aviators were in this city 
as the guests of the Aero Club of 
Pittsburgh, and were accompanied by 
Mr. Howard Pierce, president of the 
club.
Captain Sherril of the military de
partment, introduced Mr. Pierce who 
in turn introduced the fliers.
Lieutenant Arnold, the first to 
speak, told of a few of the almost in
surmountable obstacles which con
fronted the fliers on some of the sev
enty-five separate flights, and over 
the 26,000 odd miles which made up 
the trip. He modestly declined any 
credit for the trip, but laid its suc
cess to a group of five men in Wash
ington who had been working for five 
years to make an almost idealistic 
dream a reality.
Lieutenant Wade told of a few of 
the humorous incidents which help
ed to relieve the tension of the trip. 
In a chatty tone of voice he kept his 
audience in a continual uproar with 
comic yarns picked up during the 
flight. He barely mentioned the fact 
which has made him immortal, that 
event of his being adrift for hours in 
the dense fog of the North S'ea with 
no support other than his frail plane.
Both men spoke- in a familiar man
ner without a trace of conceit, un
affected by the honors and enthusias
tic greetings with which they were 
received in Asia, Europe, and in the 
United States throughout the flight; 
unchanged by that spirit akin to 
adoration with which they were over
whelmed upon its completion.
The audience was indeed fortunate 
to hear these men, and it owes a 
debt of gratitude to the Aero Club 
and to Mr. Pierce who so unselfishly 
gay# several hours of their guests 
short stay in this city to enable them 
to speak here.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces 5 series of eight Sat- : 
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Oakland Savings & | 
Trust Co. |
Mei.iber Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.......................$300,000.00 }
Surplus......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 *:* 
ASAFE DEPOSIT BOXES A 
FOR RENT V
<~X~X~X~X~X~X~X~X~X~X~X~X
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
SEATS
25cARTSPLSY
ALL
SEATS
25cTHEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
Direction Enterprises Theaters Co., HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY AND TUESDAY
kiboIn ArnlObl Il CsnWnd
One of the screen's greatest actresses in one of the worlds most cel
ebrated love stories.
Comedy News Sportlight Film
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY
Thomas Meighan in The Confidence Man
The thrilling tale of a master swindler and his struggle to go straight. 
Selected News and Comedies.
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
James Kirkwood and Madge Bellamy in 
SECRETS OF THE NIGHT
From the sensational stage success by Guy Bolton and Max Marcin. 
A great cast of stars.
All Week--ADDED ATTRACTIONChas. Schmidts Miamians Orchestra
Under the direction of MARIE MAURICEthe renown leading lady gj 
cornetists.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 18, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
! !
J*uLzeN z.TLS.eRA
DON BLYTH CHOSEN 
BASEBALL MENTOR
Former State Star Coached 
Grove City and Plebe 
Team of Skibos
The Carnegie Tech athletic depart
ment has signed Don D. Blyth of 
Wilkinsburg, as head coach oC this 
springs varsity baseball squad.
Coach Blyth is not unknown to fol
lowers of the diamond sport at Car
negie, having coached last seasons 
Plebe nine from which he has de
veloped several players who will be 
of valuable service to the varsity 
this year.
The new head coach has had much 
experience both as a player and 
mentor. He played shortstop and 
third base at Penn State for four 
years, graduating in 1917.
After starring in several indepen
dent circuits he was signed by the 
Rochester club of the International 
League, where he played for two 
years, resigning to coach baseball 
at Grove City College, where he 
 stayed long enough to turn out two 
remarkable successful teams, arriv
ing finally as coach of the Skibo's 
1924 yearling horse-hide busters.
The Tartans are very fortunate in 
seeming a coach of this caliber, as 
he has a faculty of developing 
strong, heavy hitting, scrappy teams.
Coach Blyth states that, an attrac 
tive schedule is almost colnpleted, 
and that although it is a little early 
to make any definite statements, the 
prospects look very bright.
I* IMPORTANT RIFLE MEETING  
?> TONIGHT AT CLUB RANGE
:* There ill be a meeting of -I* j 
v the Carnegie Rifle Club Tues- < j 
?I* day evening, February 17, at v j 
5:30 p. in. -I* i
*:* It is necessary that every v 
*!- member be present as several v j 
v subjects of major importance v i 
*!* must be considered, including v j 
?I- the appointment of a new cap- j 
?> tain to replace Captain Stewart v 
who will be unable to take part v 
v in the- matches during the re- v* 
v mainder of the season. >
j On the Plaid Screen !
J. F. CHRISTOFF
FRATERNITY RACE 
BECOMES CLOSER
A WINNING STRIDE
The Tartan quintet has finally hit its stride, just as had been expected by 
those in charge of Carnegie Tech basket ball. Since the second semester 
started Geneva and Pitt, two big rivals, have been defeated; and Grove City, 
boastiug of one of the best teams in its history, was able to wrest a scant 
victory from the rejuvenated Skibos only after the hardest kind of playing. 
Furthermore, this record has been made while Coach Ben Lubic was laid 
up with an attack of influenza. His return, which is expected this? week, 
will doubtless be the cause of even smoother team play than was shown 
so far.
------------
i D. U.'s and A. T. O.s Stage 
Thriller--Pi K. A. Blanks 
Boss Hall in First Shutout
In
PLEBES LOSE TO PITT 
FROSH IN PRELIMINARY
Oh, you Girlies, come In and 
get a Beautiful Marcel Wave for 
only 50c. Quick service.
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
COLLEGIATE BARBER SHOP 
MRS. HAZE, Operator
We
cJTWorrowfield
department
Hotel
Announces the second of its 
INFORMAL DANCES
'------in the------
HOTEL BALL ROOM
FRIDAY EVENING 
FEBRUARY 20th
CARI 
------*
Dancing
CARL BANCIEN
and his------
COLLEGIAN YANKEE 
SEVEN BAND
Nine to Twelve
The Pitt Freshman team Friday 
defeated the Carnegie Plebes in a 
very exciting game, preliminary to 
the meeting of- the varsity teams re
presenting the schools, score 39-29. 
After the first whistle blew, the spec
tators knew that there was going to 
be a close game for the ball was 
played back and forth for several 
minutes before any team scored. The 
Pitt .Frosh drew first blood by mak
ing a try for foul goal. Immediately 
after Carnegie tied the score. The 
floor work of both teams bordered on 
the spectacular and was worth watch
ing.
A decided advantage in size and 
the exceptional field goals of Camp
bell soon turned the tide of the game 
in favor of the visitors. Their scores, 
however were amassed only by 
severe, persistent playing. They did 
not run away with the Plebes as they 
did in their first encounter in Trees 
Gym. This time they met a team 
that was determined to surprise them, 
and surprise them they did. There 
was much praiseworthy comment 
among the spectators as to the 
noticeable improvement in the team, 
and this they rightfully deserved.
The Pitt freshman team played 
without the services of their captain 
and center, Red McMahon. This may 
have slowed them up, but they did 
not show it. Campbell led the scor
ing with six baskets, Reed had four 
and Brown had three baskets. For 
Carnegie, Sebastian led with five 
goals. Hurd counted three and Munro two. At the foul line Pitt regis
tered three out of thirteen trials; 
and in the same department Carnegie 
made three out of eleven trials.
The lineup and summary of tho 
game follows:
Carnegie29. Pitt39.
Munro.....................F.................. McGill
Hurd......................F............ Campbell
Bromley................C................... Brown
Cowan............. ..G.............................................................................. Reed
Ritts........................G............ Goldberg
Field goalsWrobleski, Campbell 
fi, Reed 4, IToban 2, McGill, Brown 
3, Goldberg, Hurd 3, Munro 2, Brom
ley, Cowan, Rltts, Sebastian 5. Foul 
goalsPitt, 3 out of 13; Carnegie, 3 
out of 11. SubstitutionsSebastian 
for Ritts, Hoban for Goldberg, Wro
bleski for McGill. RefereeBoggs
Snyder. UmpireCal Bolster.
statement the other day, Coach Lubic said, in effect:
I am very proud of my boys for the showing) they made in the 
last three games. They certainly have displayed the fight and spirit 
which is bound to win. I am sorry that sickness has kept me away 
at times, but I am anxious to qet back on the job, and feel confident 
that our season will end very satisfactorily. We are well supplied 
with material just now, and should win the majority of the remaining 
games. Donohoe at forward is a flash, and Newman adds sire and 
experience to the team. Lynch and Beede are very dependable 
guards, and Conrad is a real star who only needed some one to 
settle him down and encourage him in the games. This stabilizing 
influence and confidence has been furnished by Toots Amans, who 
has real basket ball sense. Cook. Glanz, Broden, Maurer and 
Harris are coming along well, so the future looks bright."
Coach Lubic also stated that he expects stiff opposition on the trip start
ing tomorrow, especially from the City College of New York, a team which 
is rated as one*of the best in the East.
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
A few drops 
before school 
keeps the hair 
combed all 
day. Refresh
ing, pleasing.
At drug counters and "barber 
shops everywhere.
rlOCO
(Gloss-Comb) 
THE ORIGINAL 
LIQUID HAIR DRESS IR OReal Men and Boys
Send for Sample Bottle
Mail coupon today for gener
ous trial bottle. Normany 
Products Co., 6511 McKinley 
Ave., Los Angeles, Cal.
Name............................
Address...............................
A.9NSP.A!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(A~i for our free 
alendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
MORE ABOUT WALLY STEFFEN
Coach Steffen has long ago become endeared to followers of Carnegie 
Tech athleticsin fact, ho is part and parcel of Tartan athletics, almost 
an institution in himself. Yes the writer was surprised to overhear a ques
tion asked by one of our Plebes the other day: Whore did Wally Steffen
play football before coming to Carnegie?
Fame, it seems, is short-lived, it must be, else every football fan, not 
only students and alumni of Carnegie, would know all about Steffens prowess 
on the football field. Possibly many do know, in a general way, but if asked 
questions about any of the details they would probably be unable to answer 
them.
Joe Godfrey, Jr., publisher of the All-Sports Magazine, in the first of a 
series of articles beginning with the February issue, wrote a very interesting 
story about Judge Steffen, declaring Steffen is a unique figure in tho world 
of today because he can accomplish two big tasks at the same time and 
mighty well, too.
The article went on to say that Steffen was an all-around athlete in 
prep school, and that he won his letter in track and football while at the 
University of Chicago. At one time he held the world's record for the -10 and 
60-yard low hurdles, which records have since boen broken by Smithson. In 
1906 Steffen won a place at halfback on the All-Western team, and in 1907 
won a place on tfie All-Western eleven as quarterback. In 190S his playing 
was so spectacular that Walter Camp picked him on his All-American team 
at quarterback.
The article quoted Coach Alonzo Stagg, Grand Old Man of the University 
of Chicago, who incidentally was the principal speaker at the laying of the 
cornerstone of our new gymnasium, as saying:
Two of the best players I have ever seen in action on any grid
iron were Walter Steffen and Walter Eckersall. These two fellows 
made the act of running a kickoff back to a touchdown look easy. 
Both of them could do it, and the 100-yard run which was made by 
Steffen back in 1908, when he was captain, defeating Wisconsin 18 to 
12 for the championship.
Dont we have just cause for feeling proud of Coach Steffen?
Dave Garber and his band sure do add zest and enthusiasm at the games. 
Lets have the band out for overy one of the remaining contests in tho gym.
The cheerleaders sure have been doing their stuff, too. Minettl, Mawlce, 
Seamen and Obold aro usually seen at their posts (yrelsG days. It helps a 
great deal.
Big Horse Chase tried to keep Amans from getting a field goal 
late in the game by knocking Toots high archer back out of the 
basket. Maybe Chase was sore because Toots said to him a little 
before that: Youre not a horseyou're an elephant. .
Acting-captain Willy Donohoe put up his usual brilliant game. Donio 
does not say much, but he is in there scrapping all the time. The same gos 
for Conrad and Lynch.
Many of the spectators last Tuesday wore surprised a I. the decisive de
feat handed Geneva. Thoy wondered how that team ever defeated Pitt, 
Grove City and Wash.Teff.
The Plebes did not disappoint us, either. After trimming Cali
fornia Normal and Indiana Normal, they held the powerful Pitt cubs 
to a 39-29 score, which was decidedly an improvement over the 59-9 
slaughter in Trees Gym some time ago.
While the varsity TACN be fighting for Carnegie on foreign shores this 
week, the Plebes will play the strong Kiski team In our gym on Saturday 
night. Lets give the Plebe team our support by attending this game and 
cheering for them. They deserve it.
KEEP UP THE GOOD WORK!
! The activity of the varsity team 
i last week rather messed things up 
| for tho interfraternity team. No 
: games could be played on Tuesday
 night owing to tho Geneva contest, 
j and now the erection of extra bleach* 
j ers on two of tho four courts intend| ed to bo used has played havoc with 
' Air. Finks nice little schedule.
! Even so, seven of the ten games 
! on tho program were gotten off. Llti tie real basket ball developed, liow! ever, a& none of them were particu| larly close, with the exception of 
: tho D. U.-A. T. O. clash. In fact, three 
: of the games were totally one-sided,
 and from a spectators standpoint 
1 supremely uuiuterestiug.
j The ono good match was between 
i the leaders in the National League,
! Delta Upsilon and Alpha Tau Omega.
I The former team started strong and 
ran up quite a lead in the first half,
: but when the A. T. O.s staged their i 
comeback towards the end of tho 
j third quarter, there was very little 
i betting on the outcome. Although it] 
I continued1 a fight to the end, tho | 
j early lead was too much to over.come and the D. U.s won, final scoro 
j being 17 to 15. Plummer and Sny! der led tho scoring of their respocj tive teams.
! In a game remarkable mostly for | 
I the scoro, Pi Kappa Alpha defetited j 
I Boss Hall, 41 to 0. Kohno made nine I 
fiold1 goals for tho winners. Almost | 
as ono-sided was Delta Tau Deltas 
win ovor Delta Phi Delta by tho 
scoro of 23 to 1. Beta Sigma. Rho 
lost to Henderson Hall, and Sigma 
Nu lost its second straight. Tho 
Tliota Xis suddenly camo to life and 
by good basket ball smotliorod tho 
Woodlawn ropresontatlvips. . lvaippa 
Sigma also startled their followers 
by coming out victorious ovor Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon, mostly by vlrtuo of a 
productivo last quarter rally.
Thus wore two of tho loaders drop
ped back and a fow of tho middle 
class allowed to gain In tho raco. 
The National Loaguo was tho only 
ono In which all tho toams saw acj tion and as a result Is hotter dlstrlbutod, Dolta Upsllon bolng tho solo 
1.000 toam. In tho American, tho 
Betas and Kappa Epsilon (now
Phi Kappa) dominate tho Hold. The 
Federal Loaguo has throe toams undofoatod, hut tho Dolta Tail's boast 
moro victories than tho olhors and 
denco aro In first placo.
RESULTS LAST WEEK 
NATIONAL
PI Kappa Alpha....................................<11
Boss Hall .............................................. 0
AMERICAN
Sigma Nu ..................................... I)
Sigma EpHllon I Mi 1................................27
FEDERAL- -
Dolta Tau Dolta.................................
Delta Phi Delta..................................... I
AMERICAN
Sigma Alpha Epsilon........................... 8
Kappa Sigma .......................................17
NATIONAL--
/rji'eta xi ................................................10
Woodlawn Club ............................... 9
NATIONAL
Beta Sigma Rlyo ....................../.... 12
T-fondoVHon Hall ............................. 'I
NATIONAL- -
Dolta Upsllon '........................................17
Alpha, Tau Onioga................................15
GAMES SCHEDULED *
THIS WEEK IN v
I- INTERFRATERNITY LEAGUE ?
I* Tuesday, February 17.
I* Beta Theta Pi vs. Acacia *1* 
7:30. :*
* Alpha Taui Omega vs. Pi Kappa v
Alpha7:80. *
I* Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Sigma v 
Epsilon Phi8:30. *
v Kappa Sigma Rho vs. McGill * 
v HallS: 30.
v Wednesday, February 18. -I*
v Delta Upsilon vs Woodlawn v 
Club7:80. *
Delta Chi Rho vs. Welch Hall ? 
7:30. *
< Iota Sigma Delta vs. Scobell *
* Hall8:80. *
Theta Xi vs. Beta Sigma liho ?
* S:30. 
Thursday, February 19.
* Sigma Nu vs. Beta Theta PI*
7:30. *
*! Pi Kappa Sigma vs. Delta Mu v 
8:30.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Phi * 
v KappaS:30. *
CARNEGIE1PASSERS 
AGAIN TOP GENEVA
Tartans Hand Visitors Their 
Second I Defeat of the ^ 
Season, 36-25
RIFLE TEAM LOSES;
G.W.U. MEET THIS WEEK
Plebes Take Easy Game 
From Indiana Normal
The Carnegie Plebes beat Indiana 
Normal 26 to 17 in a preliminary to 
the Varsit}r-Geneva contest last Tues
day.
The yearlings were decidedly on 
both in their floor game and shoot
ing, and were never in serious dan
ger. Hurd, Munro and Cowan, drop
ped in thx-ee field goals apiece, and 
the whole team completely outclassed 
ed their normal school rivals.
. Coach John Irwin is to be congrat
ulated upon his fine work in de
veloping a winning combination, as 
he has had both the first year men 
and the varsity under his tutelage 
due to the illness of Varsity Coach 
Lubic. This situation has compelled
him to cut down on his time with 
the Plebes and it Is almost ontiroly 
due, to his untiring efforts that thoy 
have been able to hit their stride. 
Carnegie Plebes26.
Indiana Normal- -17.
Hurd ...................F............. Allshouse
M.unro ...................F..............* Lindberg
Bromley ..............C...........  Geist
Cowan ................G................... Magill
Ritts ......................G.............. Hughes
Substitutions: CarnegieRitts for 
Bromley, Sebastian for Ritts. In
dianaLindberg for Allshouse, Shley 
for Lindberg, Alexick for Geist, Allshouse for Alexick, Giest for Ma
gill. Field goalsHurd 3, Munro 3, 
Cowan 3, Allshouse 2, Lindberg,
1 Schley, Alexick, Magill. Foul goals 
Carnegie, 6 out of 16; Indiana, 3 
out of 15. RefereeBuck Baird.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
INTERFRATERNITY BASKETBALL
STANDINGS
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Delta Upsilon ........
Alpha Tau Omega
Henderson ..............
Pi Kappa Alpha ... 
Beta Sigma Rho ..
Woodlawn 
Boss .........
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Beta Theta Pi .......................................................
Phi Kappa ...............................................................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...........................................
Sigma Epsilon Phi .................................................
Kappa Sigma ...........................................................
Sigma Nu .................................................................
Acacia .....................................................................
Delta Mu .......................................... :.................. 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Delta Tau Delta ... 
Kappa Sigma Rho .
Scobell ...................
McGill ......................
Welch ......................
Delta Chi Rho 
Iota Sigma Delta ..
01.000
21.660
21.()(i(i
1
1.666
1
1I.;m 
.:w 3
0V,.000
201.000
201.000
21.666
1
1.666
.3:13'
1
02.333
.000
02.000
o01.000
2II1.000
201.000
1I.500
I1.500
02.000
02.000
03.000
VARSITY MEETS THREE 
TEAMS ON EASTERN TRIP
This week-end looms as a busy ono 
for Carnegies basketball team, as 
the cagors face three important 
teams on successive nights. On 
Thursday evening the Franklin and 
Marshall five will be mot at Lancas
ter, Pa. The following night tho Ski
bos will play Drexel Institute at Phil
adelphia, and Saturday evening the 
basketball team of the City College 
of New York will be the Tartans 
opponents.
None of these schools have been 
met before in any branch of ath
letics by a Carnegie team, and tho 
Plaid tossers are anxious to make a 
good, impression. Drexel Institute, 
coached by OBrien, of Swathmore 
fame, will be played next fall in foot
ball, and the basketball contest 
should furnish a good opportunity to 
observe the quality of teams turned 
out by the Philadelphia school.
Judging from the Pitt clash of last 
week; a better time for this eastern 
trip could not have possibly been ar
ranged. Such team-work and close 
playing has not been witnessed for 
a long time, and if the Skibos con
tinue this type of game, the invasion 
of the east will do much towards 
strengthening Carnegie's reputation 
in that section of the sporting world.
After so completely outplaying 
their opponents of last week-end, 
tho Tartans have gained a confidence 
in themselves which Is PS essenll/il 
to a basketball aggregation; a confi
dence which will enable them fo 
brand nothing as being impossible, 
Tho student body has witnessed the 
remarkable change which has takon 
place In the team during the last few 
games, and will now ho satisfied 
with nothing but tho team's best,
A good Carnegie representation Is 
assured at each of the three games, 
as the eastern part of the sUte and 
I New York city have very strong 
alumni bodies.
The following is an itinerary or 
the trip:
I February 18, Train No' 4-4208 
j leaves Pittsburgh" (Union Station)
Tho Carnegie rifle team lost its 
first four position match to the 
Georgetown University club, 1906 to 
1801, last week.
The Tartan gallery shooters havo 
boon improving consistently all sea
son and with a littlo moro practice 
should bo able to top any college 
toam in tho league.
Du to inability during tho weolc of 
finals and registration tho Plaid poopsighters wont into tho match with no 
previous practice in any position ex
cept prone, and although losing to 
the higliost toam In tho loaguo, thoy 
camo fourth in tills woolcs firing, 
topping Gettysburg, Lafayotto and 
St. Johns by substantial scoros,
A match with Goorgo Washington 
Unlvorsity is bolng shot this weolc 
and much improvement ovor last, 
weeks 3coros has boon shown al
ready.
Next woolc tho old rivals from 
across tho way, Pitt, will bo takon 
on and much interest Is being shown 
In this match, Tho teams havo boon 
running along rather closoly in thoir 
scoros all soason add a fight for 
ovory point will bo necessary In or
der for oltlior side to win, Tho 
match hi oxpoctod to ho a shoulder 
to shoulder engagement, one PI lit 
member shooting bo side each Car
negie man.
Tho Carnoglo Individual scoros:
Wilson ............................................. 874
Smith ............................................... yon
Guthrlo ............................................. 8fi9
Knapponborger ............................. 8I>5
Hughes ............................................ 84H
Totals, Carnoglo .......................I SO I
Georgetown .................11)0(1
Posslblo Individual high score 400.
The Carnegie floor squad, in tho ab
sence ol! coach Lubic, defeated tho 
Geneva College quintet in an excit
ing contest last Tuesday evening. 
Tho game was played in the Skibo 
gym and ended with tho Tartans on 
tho best sldo of a 36-25 score.
Both teams played thoir hardest, 
and tho first half was anybodys 
gamo. After exchanging tho lead, 
soveral times tho scoro became dead
locked at 17-17 Just as the half end
ed. In the latter period Geneva was 
constantly on tho defensive, vainly 
trying to stave off the field goals 
j which finally took tho score out of 
their reach. I-Iowover, it may bo said 
for coach Cutrights passers that they 
I did not let up for an instant in spite 
j of the fact that they saw their hopes 
; of victory vanish rapidly as tho 
gamo progressed.
The Beaver Falls, Pa., school has 
ono of the best toams in the tri-stato 
section, having been defeated but 
twice this season; Carnegie turning 
tho trick on both occasions. The 
Tartans displayod the same type of 
basketball which so nearly bested 
the strong Grove City troupe, a littlo 
ovor a week ago. Donolioo and New
man led tho scoring for tho Plaid. 
Tho former dropping in five, and tho 
latter caging four. Hamilton and 
Clark starred for tho visitors. .
The game was witnessed by a 
largo crowd; many Geneva rooters 
making tho trip down with tho team, 
The lineups:
Carnoglo Tech36. Gonova2fi.
Newman.................F.................... Llppo
Donohue.................F......... Rubensteln
Conrad............... .0.................... Clarlc
Lynch.....................G............. Hamilton
Amans...................G................... Sluipo
Score by periods:
Gonova......................................17 825
Gonova.....................................17 825
Substitutions: Carnoglo  Boodo
for Newman, Newman for Conrad. 
GonovaWilson for Hamilton, Dunvor for Clark. Fiold goals- Newman 
4, Donohue 5, Conrad 3, Lynch,
I Amans 2, Llppo 2, Rubonstoln 3,
| Clark. 2, Hamilton 3. Foul goals- - 
Llppo, I out of 22; Hamilton 4 out 
of 7; Clark, \ out of 4; Rubonstoln, 
I. out of 2; Newman, 2 out of 4; 
Lynch, I. out of 2; Conrad, 1 out of 
2; Don oh u o', 2 out of 3. Referee 
Boggr, Snyder. UniplroBuck Baird. 
Time ol periods -20 minutes.
8:05 p. ni. Fehruary 11), Tvnln No. 
4-4208 arrlvos Marrlsburg (P. U. 11.) 
7:00 a. in. Kobruary li), Traili No. 54 
leavos Harrlsbjiirg 3:07 p, m. Fobruary 19, Traln No. 54 arrlvos Lanoastor (P. R. II.) 8:57 p. m, Pobrudry 20, Traili No. (120 louvoM Lancater (P. R. Il) 8:4-1 a. m. Fohruary 
20, Traln No. 020 arrlvos Phlladolpilla (Broad St, Sta.) 10:45 a. m. 
Pobruary 21, Traln No. 178 leavos 
Phlladolphla (Broad St. Sta.) 12:15 
a. m. Pelmiary 21, Traln No 178 ar
rivo Now York (Pennsylvania Sta
tion) 7:30 a. m. Fehruary 21, Traln 
No. 61 leavos New York (Pennsylva
nia Station) 11:40 p. m. Fehruary 
22, Traln No. 61 arrlvos Pittsburgh 
(Union Station) 9:15 a. ni.
When You Face the 
Business World
VVIinii your nuliool llfo In ovor mid 
you fun* tlio bunlnonn world, you 
will H|>i)roobiti tho IiiuiIc ooimoo11 on M that you form today, Tho ox* 
porluix'o la fliwimiliil iiuiltorn whlcli 
it l)|ink account nlionln, will 
nlronntlion your aoiifWlonco uiul 
nmUo moro lllmly your olmucoii of 
milHUJHft.
Wo Invito your uonttlriorauOn of Uio 
Mollon Nntlonnl Bnnk. Kotfttrdlonn 
of tho olxo of your uccount you will 
llnd lioro n ironulno nplrlt of tvrvIro In tlio conduct, of your llnnnalid 
n If ul rtf.
Cnpltnl mid Kurplun Jlil,500,000.00
Mellon National bank
P 111 sb h. Pa
Many people arc wise on radio mat
ters, yet do not know why their foun
tain pen leaks," or that they can 
purchase one that will give entire 
satisfaction at the Jenkins Arcade 
Singer Pen and Gift Shop.
WRIGLiYS
*AJter every meal
A pleasant and agreeable 
sweet and a 
2-a -s-t-I-n-5J benefit as 
well.
Good lor teeth, .breath 
and digestion.
Makes the 
next cigar taste better.
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGB MAN
The
SACK SUIT
(Tivo and three button)
UBDEB with that conncrvaiism carefully dressed men 
demand, and tailored in ap
propriate, rich patterns 
that stamp them as diutinctive.
;<3250 AR TSPL
NAT LUXENBERG & 8M:30 
RY 8XSTHGTWI KVG .SXo
rNEXT SHOWINO AT 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
MARCH (Uli mid 7lli
Our style memo. Iiook 
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1925
Grads Expected For 
Annual Eng. Frolic
Science Stag: Yearly Reunion 
For Eng. Graduates
CALIFORNIA CLAN 
HOLDS REAL PARTYi
Plana ar bolus mudo to rocoivo 
tlii! Alumni who will rotura to Car
negie for tho annual I'rollo o tho 
engineering atudonta at tlio Science 
Slug ou March 14. Tho arrange
ments havo proeepdod moro rapidly 
than C2 usually tho caae, and the 
committeo 1 fluro that tho entertainmont will moro than hold It own 
with the staga of! tho day gone by.
Till affair ha always been a gen
eral reunion of donee grad, and a 
chanco for tho Alumni to got back In
to tho spirit of tho collogo day. Tho 
lilgh quality of tho entertainment to
gether with tho chanco to meet old 
friend 1 an attraction to all Alumni, 
but OHpeclally to thoe In tho Pitiaburgh dlatrlot. The tunta havo been 
tho main feature of those events and 
till yoar 1 an exception only In 
that it 1 planned to mako them bet
tor than over. An Alumnus peak
ing tho othor day said that he could 
think of no entortalnment which he 
could recall as vividly or enjoyed so 
much as the stags of hla collogo 
yoara.
Several weelca ago Fred Roaalnl, 
wa appointed the chairman for the 
stag, luco that time, claaa and fac
ulty atunt commltteoa havo been 
choaon and plana have been made for 
the program, which la to Include a 
number of original Idoaa, together 
with all that paat claaaoa could pro
duce. An air of oxclualvenoaa was 
given to It by tho announcement 
that only the men of aclonce achool 
would ho eligible to attend. Tlila,
Womens Clan Hold Business 
Social Meeting Feb. 6; 
Take in Members
mnae Association [CARNEGIE ALUMNI 
Holds JAM. Luncheon GATHERED IN N. Y.
Field of the College of Industries
By Director J. T. Morris
Despite the predicted ending of the 
world, a raln'y night, and slippery 
streets, thirty mombor and friends 
of tho Southorn California Carnegie 
Clan appeared at tho 11 rat mooting 
of 1925, hold 011 Friday, February G.
Mr. and Mrs. J. II. Knapp, ovor In
terested In fostering tho clan, had 
graciously offered their homo for tho 
occasion.
The weighty problem of deciding 
upon a mooting date and electing of
ficers for tho coming 
tho minda of tlio Californians for a. 
time. Tlio Hocond Weclnemluy of! negleltmi. An cnjoyublo time was 
toll month was selected uh boliiK \ lmd by all ami the buys look forward 
tho most suitable tiino for getting to tho next meeting In March when 
together. Since 110 one had any vlo- thoy will be gathered together again
1 .  T-j , ajj T-ti "What next? is the question con-io'* iJaviH, president t tho Huff,-j Gathering at Carnegie Inn Pres. Baker Addresses Party j tront.ns [hc fcoy graduating from hfgh
lo Clan, on a visit to tho achool SllCCesful Event Two Speeches Follow I school. Employment or more train--------- Give New Stunt ing work or colleee? For the by
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae! ____________
Association held a prettily appointed j A 1Jvelyt interesting party was
week, reported their Clan 
quite active this winter.
being
CONNECTICUT CLAN
On Monday evening, January 20, 
tho Connecticut Clan again came 
forth In tho glorioua colora of the 
Plaid. The conclave was held at 
Hartford; a goodly sized crowd of 
Carnegieltes attending. The evening 
started off with a big banquet at the 
Kingston Koffee Kitchen  soup, 
chicken, Ice cream, smokes, Speechoa and "Dear Old Took. Tho Clans
men then adjourned to the Capitol 
year, occupied * Theater where a box had been re! served in honor of the former Carlent objoctloua to tho report of the 
nominating committee, tho elections 
went forward peacefully, with tlieae 
rsulta: Proaident J. il. Knapp;
Vice-President, G. It. Brandin, Secretary-Troasurer, Bessie Finkollior. 
R. M. Crosby and Charles Crawford 
were olectod as the two members to 
servo 011 tho Executive Committee 
with tho officers.
In order to relievo the members 
from the strain of business matters 
copies of a cross-word puzzle, clev
erly devised by our host and liostesa 
wore distributed. Prizes for tho man 
and girl who linialied first, were of
fered to encourage keen competi
tion. Crosby and Miss Doris Carter, 
a gueat of one of tho members, car
ried off the awards.
In honor of 
gle Tech.
Dear Old Tech- Carneluncheon on Saturday afternoon in 1 stage<l at tho Hotel McAlpIn 011 SatCarnegle Inn at one-thirty. rJables ur(jay evening, February 7, in tho
HARRISBURG CLAN
Representatives were in New York 
to attend tho party given by the 
New York Clan at the Hotel McAlpolne on Saturday, February 7.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
Representatives were in New York 
to atttend the party given by the 
New York Clan In the Hotel McAlpine ou Saturday, February 7.
TO ALL CARNEGIE CLANS
Miss Dorothy Renick, class of 1924, 
however, does not exclude tho gradu- iWl(1 Margaret Walton, who re- ^ ,
atea. At present further plans aro
bolng withhold but announcements aa 
to the program and tlcketa will bo 
made later.
DRAMA (RAI) DESIGNS 
THE RIVALS SETTINGS
David Gaither, doalgnor of tho stage 
settings for "Tho Rivals," la a gradu
ate of the Drama Department at Car
noglo. Tlio play has had a vory suc
cessful run this season which fact la 
partly duo to Mr. Ga/thor'a novel yet 
effective nettings, lie ha dono 
unconventional piece of work and at 
the Hiuno time ha auccoedoil In main
taining duo roapoet for the classic.
Ills motif hi from the Palladlan 
architecture of tho porjod. The 
twelve simple units of aeonery can bo 
combined Into six different cone, to
tally unlike, Tho coloring hi applied 
by moans of lights,
Mr. Gaither 1 a native of the Pitts
burgh dlatrlot, entering Carnoglo from 
Allegheny High school In tho fall of 
:il)l(l.
colvod her M. A. in 1923, wore wel- j 
coined as the two noweat members | 
of the clan. It 1P hoped that all Car
noglo men and women who arrive In 
tho land of aunahlno will reveal their 
whereabouts Lo tho secretary, who 
can bo reached at (1-17 S. Gramercy 
Place or 819 Dolta Building.
Thoao preBont woro: A. F. Arnold, 
Mrs. G. R. Brandin, G. R. Brandin, 
Ml Doris Carter, Mrs. Betty Carr 
Cllpson, Mr. F. G. Clipspon, Mrs, R. 
M.Oosby', R. M. Crosby, Max C. Drebln, Bessie Finkollior, Robort Finkelhor, Mrs. Welhy II. Hudson, Mrs. 
Mary M. Kllton, Dr. Kllton, Ethel 
Kindi, F. II. Klndl, Helen Ilarblsqn 
Knapp, .T. H, Knapp, Walter Marplo, 
David M. Mason, Dorothy 10. Ronlolc, 
F. W. Rhodes, Mrs. Hazol Thomas 
Rhodes, Earl# J). Stonorod, Margaret 
Walton, Miss Lottlo Lee Thain, Dr.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRE88 
8UlTfl TO HIRE 
For All Ooomdomi.
All new and up to dato.
ED SCHWERIN 
MMN TAILOR 
fiOfl Stnto Thontor Midldlnn 
335 Fifth Avonuo, Pltoburgh, Pn.
mmimmmmmmxmmmmmmnmi
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORDES STREET 
Arthitii nnd Englnooru' Matorlaln, Stationery nnd Gonoral 
Supplies for Studonta.
immmtwmnmmmmmwmmmmtfl
Stop at Hago Beauty Shoppe 
Export Work Quick Sorvicc 
THREE OPERATORS 
Ladies and Gentlemen's 
Manicuring a Specialty.
418 CRAIG STREET 
Schenley G196-R
R. Wofor, Ida RlchU 
Harold Weller.
r Wel for, and
Nation-Wide Plumbing 
Conference Now on
Carnegie and Pitt Sponsor 
Local Gathering
Wo received a letter recently 
from tho president of one of 
the Clans criticising the Tartan 
for not giving the Clans the pub- * 
licily which lliey rightly merit for 
the work they are doing for Car- !* 
negie Tech. *
Tills letter explains the Tar- ?! 
tail's stand In tho matter. We v 
run every single item of Clan 
news which we receive during * 
the wook. Every notice, no mattor how small Is printed. Those v 
Clans which complain because 
they receive no publicity probably do not know that it ia hecause we receive no news rrom -V 
them, Tho Carnegie Tartan is 
as much at tlio aorvlce of the *J< 
China as of the student body. 
We aro only loo glad Lo print v 
any Clan news which we re- !' 
colvo, *!
Bui; we can't prujt iiewa when v 
we havent got It. It must come v 
In to The Tartan olflco before 
tho f Friday of the wook. preeeding tho laauo of tho paper In : 
which II. ia lo appear. !
FRED C. SMITH, !
Edltor-ln-Chlol. :
were reserved by the various classes 
and covers were laid for one hundred 
and lliirty. This is by far the largest 
alumnae gathering we have had and 
gives promise of better attendance at 
future alumnae events. The tables 
were effectively decoraled with red 
hearts and red candles In crystal hold
ers. Ohio Newman and tho String
ers provided the musical entertain
ment, which waa greatly appreciated.
President Fettke reviewed the 
events of tho year and asked for the 
support of the alumnae in the future 
events on llie calendar: the March 
tea, the benefit bridge to be held in 
April and Campus Week. Mrs. Fettke 
announcedf a plan for reviving the 
Parry Memorial, details of which will 
be prinled later.
Miss Rachel Beatty, chairman of the 
membership committee, explained the 
real purpose of the luncheon and 
urged tho unpaid members to pay 
their dues and gave statistics on the 
standing of other alumnae aasocia| Lions of womens schools.
The commitlee in charge included: 
Miaa Rachel Beatty, chairman; Miss 
Hattie C. Merrill, Miss Edith Scott 
Glenn, Mrs. C. C. Brinton, Miss Laura 
Green, Miss Elizabeth Stevenson, Miss 
Ruth Welty, Miss Nellie Green, Mrs. 
C. R. Fetlke, Miss Bernice J. Kruger, 
Miss Elizabeth Buchele, Miss Mar
garet Griffin, Miss Josephine Whitney, 
Mrs. Dorothy Grant Ilosford and Miss 
Miriam Bond.
.The commitlee extends their thanks 
Lo Mr. Lawrence Miller and Miss 
Kalhryn Blackford, for their help in 
making Llie luncheon a success.
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all gooil fel
loe meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate 
eluding dessert.
dinner, inFOR^ES ABOVE CRAIG
Chiving Cross
$9
J
ust one of many! The others 
ar fully an ilcsirnbl  foot
wear for any requirement, any 
occasion, <&. reasonably priccd. 
You nr cordially Invited to 
come and look 'em over!
On Display By
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick 
at
SKI BO INN 
FEBRUARY 27th
XNCORVORAX1D
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark nnd Philadelphia Address for Mall Orders, i<ji Hudson St, New York City
The nation-wide oonforonoo for 
plumbing In all'll Q tors to bo hold In 
this city for two weeks under the dl* 
ruction of tho National Trade Exten
sion Bureau of Lho Plumbing and 
Heating Industrie In cooperation j 
with Carnegie Imitituto of Technology 
and Ihi' Univ.orally of Pittsburgh was 
opened yesterday, February 10. Re
gistration for the eonferoneo, was 
hold at room 7, Stale Hall, trnlvor
ally of Pittsburgh, at S:;iU on Mon
day morning.
At 9:30 the eonferoneo was for
mally opened with a meeting in 
SLale Hall, when full instructions re
garding tlio details of tho course of 
lectures and studies will be given to 
tho "students.
Tho purpose of tho conference, ac-. 
cording to announcements from the 
National Trade Extension Bureau, is 
to give to journeymen and master 
plumbers a knowledge of the princi
ples of teaching and learning. The 
instruction has been especially plan
ned for those engaged in the plumb
ing trade and the problems are large
ly those which have to be solved in 
the actual operation of plumbing 
schools. Instructors of plumbing and 
others interested in this work, trom 
all parts of the country have been in
vited to attend as students. No tui
tion fee is to be charged.
Classes in the course will be held 
at both Pitt and Carnegie Tech. The 
peraounel of the faculty for the 
course will include E. L. Bowman, 
Educational Director, and A. W. 
Wolfgang, Apprenticeship Field Re
presentatives, of tho Trade Extension 
Bureau; Gerald Whitney, Professor 
of Vocational Education, Unlyerslly 
of Pittsburgh; Profoasor Robert B. 
Lolghou, Hoad of tho Department of 
Industrial Solonoo, and Professor 
Samuel E, Dibble, head oT tho De
partment of Hoatlng, Ventilation, and 
Sanitation, Carnoglo institute of 
Technology.
MILITARY DEPARTMENT TO
GIVE INTERESTING LECTURES
The Military Department announces 
two interesting lectures.
On February 19, tho reel "Flushes 
of Action," giving actual scenes from
The Womon Clan ol Cleveland,' 
TACCC hold tholr benefit bridge and Tea 
,on Saturday afternoon March 14, at 
tho Alcazar Hotel from 2:00 to 1:30. 
Any Carnoglo Womon rosldlng In tho 
Cleveland dlatrlot aro urgod to al
itimi and alao adverLiao IL to tholr
LA REVUE MODERNE OF 
PARIS CRITIZES PAINT
ING REPOSE BY PROF. 
CHARLES JAY TAYLOR 
OF THE DEPARTMENT 
OF PAINTING AND 
ILLUSTRATION
(Continued From Page One.) 
that Carnegie might be able lo obtain 
tills preaence of a great artiat to as
sist in making tho College of Fine 
Arts more truly representalive 
Perhaps, in Lime, it may noL be neces
sary Lo look elsewhere Ao realize this 
hope.
Spanish room by the New York Clan.
Three speakers from Carnegie were 
present and each gave a short ad
dress. Following Dr. Bakers address, 
Arthur A. Hammerschlag gave a talk 
on "past times at Carnegie. His 
was followed by an address by Dean 
C. C. Connelley.
The committee scheduled stunls and 
enlerlainmenl of a novel characler. 
Their chief stunt consisted of a cari
cature artist who drew a sketch of 
Home of the guesLs and clansmen as 
they tame In the banquet hall, catch
ing Lliem in some familiar pose or 
registering some emotion. These 
sketches, by some mysterious means, 
were transferred. Lo slides and laLer, 
lo Lhe merrimenL of the crowd, were 
thrown on Lhe screen.
The affair was conducted a little 
different than the average clan party. 
Instead of each one making out his 
own dance schedule, several Paul 
Jones dances were intermixed, thus 
enabling everyone to become acquaint
ed.
Represen tallves from, the Philadel
phia, Hartford and Harrisburg Clans 
were present.
Harry A. Silverman, sales manager 
of the Wisconsin Pearl Button Com
pany and president of the Mumiplione 
Corporation of New York, while on a 
short trip to Pittsburgh, dropped in 
the Alumni office, Mr. Silverman, 
coming from the New York Clan, is 
interested in seeing a better connec
tion between the clans and the school. 
He advocated the organization of a 
Carnegie Club in each of the larger 
cities. He states that in New York 
City alone there are over a hundred 
alumni. This method would be fol
lowing in the steps of other large col
leges who have their clubs for the 
purpose of keeping their alumni in 
touch with each other and aid In the 
advancement of their Alma Mater.
The orchestra was good, and the 
eats were better. These, togellier 
with the entertainment, kept the parly 
going until after two-lhirly oclock.
From one mouse to another, "Sure, 
go ahead and swipe the cheose oul 
of Lho trap, it will be a snap."
who decides to continue his educaLion the College of IndusLries of Car
negie offers a new and attractive opportunily; especially for the boy who 
desires to enter the industrial-com
mercial field, who aims to own and 
conduct a business demanding tech
nical skill and knowledge, who wants 
to do" things, to occupy positions of 
control and management in industry.
The vast development of manufac
turing has created a vocalion or pro
fession which is executive in type and 
requiring a considerable amount of 
technical information. The number 
of positions for men of this type of 
training is very large; to one designer 
there may be a hundred men needed 
as operators and managers of the 
manufacturing establishment which 
may place on the market the product 
of the inventor.
These men are men of leadership 
and should be prepared to take places 
of leadership, not only in business 
but also in civic and social affairs. 
The captains of industry of loday have 
grown up wilh the business. Their 
training is comprehensive because 
they have followed the growth of the 
industry. The call now is for trained 
men with general and technical edu
cation broad enough to grasp the sci
entific knowledge of the engineer and 
with a practical training, thorough 
enough to enter the various lines of
supplemented by studies in produc
tion methods, estimating costs, organ
ization of plants, etc. Second: Re
lated scientific courses which are fun
damental to the technical knowledge 
or necessary to the study of technical 
subjects. General Chemistry is fol
lowed by courses in which the chem
ical properties of materials used in 
a particular industry, e.g. the printer 
studies inks, papers, etc. The builder 
studies cement, paints. General Phy
sics is studied throughout the Sopho
more year in Mechanics through the 
Junior year preceded by a Sophomore 
course in Calculus. Industrial His
tory in the Freshman year and Econ
omics in the Sophomore year form a 
basis for later commercial courses. 
Third: General courses which are
necessary and highly desirable lor 
every college trained man. English 
Composition and English Literature 
are foundational to the study of speci
fications, Letters and Reports. Amer
ican Government, Commercial Law, 
Credit and Banking, Industrial Man
agement, Psychology and Salesman
ship are prominent subjects in this 
group.
It is clearly impossible even in a 
four-year curriculum to include in
struction in all cultural and profes
sional studies, in both theory and 
practice. We aim to follow a middle 
course, which will train the student 
in fundamentals and acquaint him 
with good practice". The success of 
our graduates and their opinions giv
en after years of experience confirms 
this policy.
Although these courses ar~of engi
neering rank they are distinctly difindustry, Lo conslruct, to operate, or | ferent from the courses usually given 
to manage lliat which the engineer j in engineering colleges. The Indus
tries courses have a practical shop
MUSICAL CLUBS SCORE
HIT ON INITIAL TRIP
friends. The committee hopes to 
more than double Lhe Scholarship 
Fund started last year when a simi
lar affair was most aucceaafully 
given. ^
Thoao in charge of the affair are: 
Miss Georgia Clark, chairman, Mias 
Evelyn Pleraon, Miss Jean Gray, and 
Miss Catharine Allan.
Tickets TAEll be given out to Lhe 
members of Lho clan at Lho luncheon 
Salurday, February 21, which mooLa 
al; 1:00 oclock. Mrs. Nellio Blgloy 
Sparks will bo ho8toas at her homo 
on 2001 Wascona avenue, Lakewood.
Cross Word Puzzle No. 9
L. HERDMAN HARRIS III
If this one does not draw forth more expressions of wrath and confinings 
to etornal perdition from outraged puzzlers than any of our previous efforts 
wo have made another bum guess. Your brain will need a cold shower and a 
rub-down after these mental calisthenics.
Furthermore there is a ticket to the Davis awaiting the first two people 
who show such a combination of mental and physical agility as Lo Bolve Lhe 
pu/./.lo and to prosont. tho solution at tho Tartan Ofllce, 12 Industries, today.
Horizontal.
\\ sensuous potion.
11 A clerical consultant.
12 -A note on tho tonic aoalo.
M Things of a mysterious nature.
15In tho air.
10- A number.
IS- -United Nut Reformatories (Abbr.) 
IDFirst throe letters of luiiuo of 
Scotch city.
!0An honor.
1-
Vertlcal.
descrlboatho atmosthe battle-fields of tho World War!22MoUarolis (Fr.)
i will be presented. ................
| On February 20, Reverend C. Wal| lace Petty, Pastor of tho First Bap| tist Church, and chaplain iu the Of| Acer's Reserve Corps, will give one 
of Ills inimilable talks on "Prepared
ness."
Tho lectures will be held on Thurs
days at 11:30 a. m. in room 104, In
dustries. All interested are invited 
to attend.
3Making an impression (colloq.).
24To possess (Lat.).
25Army slang for away.
20A modern writer.
27"By the hand of (lit). ,|
2SAn incubator.
29Pronoun.
30A spot.
34To accomplish.
35A Dutch boys name.
37Tennis players (Vanity Fair).
Ono who 
pliero.
2A villionous intorjoction.
8Aft herb with a bitter taste.
4A rhymed story.
5An administrative ofllce.
0Sulllx.
7Signal offered by thoso in distress. 
SProlix meaning not.
10Belonging to tho goat kind.
13Carried away (Fr.).
15Still enduring.
17Unable to contain one's self.
ISA mans name,
20Physician (lleb.).
21A nematoid of tho Anguillulidae 
genus.
30A corpuscular gland.
31Greek letter.
32Suffix.
33Born (Fr.).
30Greek letter.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Youngstown. Bailey, Powers, and De 
Pue all came to Erie at various times 
during the day, and the men were 
gathered at the I-IIgh School for a 
| "farming out" party. There was a 
Lea for some of Lhe boys, and Gumbert made love to a pianoat loast 
he said it was a piano! Steve Kovaclc and Warren Kimball went along 
Lo keep lho three Jones brothers in 
the right frame of mind for tea, and 
they say it was a real party.
The Erie Concert was great! Two 
first tenors walked off the stage after 
the first number, without thinking 
that there was to ho a aecond, but 
then, First Tenors never think 
Warren Kimball did his Indian Dance 
for the Erians, but, for some reason, 
they did not know whether to laugh 
or to bo awe-struck. They were 
amused by Ills make-up and thought, 
therefore that iL was supposed lo be 
funny, but really it wasntexcept 
for a slight difficulty at tho finish. 
The belt was repaired in Westfield, 
however. Somehow, the news leak' 
ed out that tlio clubs new piece 
called "Bunk", and the audience was 
surprised that they did not sing it!
They sang other bunk though, but 
It did not satisfythey will sing 
Chesterfields there next year. Wally 
Aleshin and McVay kept the audi
ence young by teasing the Ukelele 
with the Bellyaclia. The youth was 
further enhanced by Wayne Koppes 
dialogue about his visit to the re
cent veddink, and his experience 
under the table, at said-event. It was 
a good joke, but we cant print it 
here. After the concert the men were 
entertained at a dance at the Law
rence Hotel, making a grand finale 
for the whole thing. Grand is good, 
for the dance was a huge success.
About noon, we think it was noon,, 
the men began to stretch and get out 
of their respective beds, and take 
leave of the farmerettes for the sta
tion. The train pulled out for West
field at 2:13, and after wheezing 
through the snow'-drifts it arrived at 
the destination. The grips and in
struments were piled into a Chewy 
and taken to the Y. M. C. A. Hotel, 
and the boys walked the mile after 
them. The farmerettes came for the 
farming out and the boys went to 
their respective billets. For a town 
where Grape Juice is made, we 
might say it is quite the place. The 
entire populace came to the concert, 
with the exception of the firemen, 
and they couldnt get off till next Fri
day evening.
With tho help of a real stage the 
men sang even better than they 
could. Al Johnson was happy at the 
outcome, and Steve was even more 
pleased. Alosliln did a Russian jig 
to tlio tune of Sally Louski, and end
ed tho program. The audionco 
couldnt soo any reason why tho con
cert should end, so they stayed on 
therefore, the clubs sang Dear Old 
Tech in live fiats. When the fog had 
lifted tho men searched for their re
spective girl-friends, and took them 
around the corner and across the 
street, to the dance. You should see 
that dance hall. It would be a suc
cess in any large city, and for West
fieldwell, it was and is, a real 
thing. The dance broke up into 
small pieces about one in the morn
ing, and as the train for home pulled 
out at 1:25, the men ran in all haste
has designed.
In selecting the subjects of instruc
tion the faculty had in mind first: A 
thorough grounding in the mechanical 
operations of each field of study, ac
quired through intensive shop courses, 
stressing processes rather than skill,
training background and definite 
fields of study not occupied by other 
courses given on the campus. Later 
we will discuss the field, the aims and 
the opportunities for graduates of the 
respective courses.
to the stationonly to find that the 
train had not yet left Buffalo, which 
is an hour and a half away! The 
girls who came along to the station 
furnished dance partners, and with 
the aid of Eiclienlaub on the Tuba, 
and Caven on the Mandolin, the 
dance continuedyou should liave 
heard the result. Finally Davidson 
thought his ears had been mistreaLed 
enough, so he played Lhe Cello for 
the entertainment of those present. 
After the allotLed hour and ten minules had elapsedfifteen minutes 
being made upthe train pulled in, 
and the reporter swindled the rail
road company into allowing him to 
get a lower, whereupon he closed his 
tired editorial eyes, and went to 
sleep.
It was a very successful trip. The 
men behaved themselves in a man
ner creditable to the institutionac
cording lo all reports from those who 
saw themand the program went 
over nicely. The Instrumental Club 
played all numbers with a real swing, 
and the hands they received evi
denced the success of the director
ship of Steve Ivovack. The Glee Club 
sang all numbers directly under Al 
Johnson, and ho was pleased, as we 
said further up the . page. The 
Soloisls were all able to hit high sea 
and the Cellist drew a crowd. Aleshin 
never need commenthis glory 
spoalcs for Itself. He gels a hand 
before ho begins playing and he gels 
Lhe house afler he finishes.
Next Monday, Tuesday, and Wed
nesday tho clubs will play at the 
Schenley. Theater, and the program 
will be augmented to suit the' local 
conditions. Patronize our home in
dustries!
PITT DEFEATED IN HARD
FOUGHT CONTEST, 27-19
(Continued From Page One.) 
hoe and Amans, he dropped in field 
goals. His total for the evening also 
was three. Wally Lynch played a 
good game at guard, holding his man 
low and he himself scoring two field 
goals and a couple of fouls. And to 
make a clean sweep of things Amans 
and Newman got one apiece.
Lissfelt and Kowallis kept the 
Panthers in the running- throughout 
the game. The lineup is as follows: 
Carnegie27. Pitl19.
Donohoe...............F................... Lissfelt
Newman................F.............. Kowallis
Conrad...................O...................... Chase
Amans.................G-----.... Rich man
Lynch..................G........................ King
Score by periods:
Carnegie ...............12 1527
Pitt ......................... 7 121
Substitutions  Pitt: Lissfelt for 
Ricliman, Parsons for Richman, Ricliman for Parsons, Campbell for Rlcliman, James for Lissfelt, Lissfelt for 
James. CarnegieBeeds for Lynch. 
Field goals  Donalioe 3, Newman, 
Conrad 3, Amans, Lynch 2; Lissfelt 
3, Kowallis 2, Richman King. Foul 
oalsLynch, 1 out of 3; Amans, 3 
out of 5; Conrad, 1 out of 1; Newman,
1 out of 3; Donohoe, 1 out of 5; King
2 out of 3; Kowallis, 0 out of 4; Richman, 2 out of 5; Campbell, 1 out of 3.
ONLY ENGINEERS MAY
ATTEND SCIENCE STAG
(Conlinued From! Page One.) 
e.d, and Llie result will be known when 
their act is finished.
The Seniors, however, are experi
enced in stag affairs and desire to re
tain possession of the cup won by 
last years class, so they also have 
selected their committee. Leo Stimmler is chairman. Pat Ryan, L. H. 
Harris, W. Fencil, A. Stiegler and V. 
V. Senkus are the other members. 
These men are determined to upset 
the aspirations of the faculty, and 
show the other classes that the Se
niors are just about supreme when it 
comes to entertaining Carnegie stu
dents.
As a stimulant to further urge the 
classes to greater effort, the silver cup 
which is the reward for the best stunt 
will be exhibited in the window byDean Browns office. The name of the 
winning class is engraved on it. Inas
much as the stag is only three weeks 
off Paul Bowron, who has charge of 
Lhe program is very anxious that the 
other classes act promptly and pre
pare a stunt that will make a real bid 
for the trophy. Plans for the pro
gram include all of last years features 
together with many new ones which 
will not be revealed until the eventful 
Saturday night, March 14.
THEONLY1*ReaalM neMM B
FLOVER SHOP
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbea
ROOM FOR GIRLS MEETINGS,
ETC., CAMPAIGN THIS WEEK
(Continued From Page One.)
Tho money could not be expended for 
a bettor purpose. The room will be 
distinctly a girls room and it will 
belong to one girl as much as another, 
so it is up to each individual to sup
port this campaign by pledging when 
called upon.
LOST
At the Arts Ball a black leather 
over-night case was lost. It bears 
the initials M. E. L. Will the finder 
please return it to Mildred Lucas or 
call Hazel 2963-R and receive a reAdvertising
PROMOTES
Progress
ADVERTISE IN THE TARTAN
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Telephone Schenley 0870-J Approved Marinello Shop 
Marcel WavingManicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
Treatments.
314 FORBES BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
ward.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS I
European Tours
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 Days
$395 and up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
For full particulars address
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
Tour* Di-vision 
Xio East 4Znd Street New York
