VOTE ON 
PEACE 
PLAN
BONFIRE
TONIGHT
G:45
VOL. XVIII NO. 19CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1924
BONFIRE AND PITT GAME TONIGHT
BASKETBALL GAMES WILL BE 
ONLY ACTIVITY IN NEW GYM 
THIS YEAR IS PROBABILITY
Gym to be Informally Opened Tonight
Main Floor Only Completed 
PartRegulations Must be 
Made Before Use by Stud
ents
ESQUERRE IN CHARGE
MORTAR BOARD TO HOLD
BRIDGE PARTY MARCH 1
The Gymnasium building will prob
ably be used for nothing but basket 
ball games this year. Such was the 
statement of Professor Esquerre, 
charge d affaires of the magnificent 
athletic studio, when he was asked 
about the plans for its use.
The two reasons which he gave 
were that the building itself would 
not be ready for student use untdl 
late in the spring and that no set of 
regulations has been ratified by the 
administration.
An investigation showed that tilie 
finishing touches are even now being 
applied to the structure. All the 
plastering will be done by the end 
of this week. Half the tile of 
the pool has been laid. In three 
weeks the rest will be down, and in 
one more the concrete floor will have 
been put in,
Switch boards and lighting fixtures 
are being installed. Window frames 
have been painted inside and out. In 
the administration section of the 
"building the doors have been fitted, 
set and painted.
The color of the interior trim in 
the administration offices is cream. 
The walls and ceiling of the mens 
gymnasium are not always to retain 
the unfinished appearance which they 
now present.. They are to be sprayed 
(Continued on Page Three)
Mens Junior Prom 
Held at Schenley
Herb Polesie Distributes 
Favors in Novel Way
The final ticket sale for the Mens 
Junior Prom ended last Friday wilih 
a. great flourish, and a glorious Prom 
was held that -evening at the Schen
ley. The Junior class was exceed
ingly well represented for there were 
over 200 couples including Alumni 
and the Senior guests.
The careful' planing of every detail 
in connection with this affair by the 
committee members: Scinece, Cy
Hoenniger, Don Gardner and Phil 
Rossback, chairman; Industries, Ted 
I-Iughea and Frank Brooks; Arts, Dick 
Reed and Wayne Koppes, was evi
dent hy the precision which marked 
the arrangements. No one was dis
appointed because the promises made 
became a reality.
Of course everyone had heard about 
the music and bow wonderful Dave 
Harmons Orchestra would be, but 
when they actually heard them this 
was the sentiment of all, Theyre 
(Continued on Page Four.)
DO YOU KNOW IN BARCELONA"?
The Mortar Board is holding a 
bridge party on Saturday afternoon, 
March first, at Forbes Hall from 2 to 
5 p. m.
All of the girls on the campus are' 
invited to attend. Prizes will be given 
for the highest and lowest scores.
The Proms, Art Ball and exams will 
then be a thing of the past and the 
girls are all anxioUs to get together 
for a quiet friendly chat.
ASSEMBLY TO TAKE 
PLACE IN NEW GYM
Wally I Steffen Accepts Dr. 
Bakers Invitation to Speak 
to Studes
The first General Assembly of tlie 
192.4 Semester will be held in the 
new gym. This, alone, should be suf
ficient reason to attract the majority 
of the students who have watched 
tihe development of a much needed 
addition to the Carnegie Tech Camp
us, will welcome the opportunity for 
rallying under its roof on Tuesday, 
February 12. All Plebes will be re
quired to march in body under super
vision of the Sophs. Another reason 
why everyone will enjoy this assem
bly is that it promises to bo short 
and snappy. Heretofore a few have 
been shorti and  few have been snap
py, but popular opinion craves a com
bination of brevity! and pep, and at 
this assembly an attempt will be 
made to please everybody.
President Thomas S. Bakers co
operation and sympathy with student 
interests are responsible for the 
speaker of the day, whose presence 
will undoubtedly prove a startling de
light for everbody. Upon the direct, 
invitation of Dr. Baker, Judge Walter 
P. -Steffen of Chicago, otherwise 
known as Coach Wally Steffen, will 
give a short address.
In asking our Wally" to be tflie 
next assembly speaker, President
Baker has conferred a significant hon
or upon him by the fact that he is 
to be the first speaker to address the 
.students ati an assembly in th gym
nasium. It is a high tribute to
Coach 'Slteffens qualities as an indi
vidual and a man of affairs that the 
administration, through President
Baker, has invited our famous foot( Continued on Page Three.)
DR. KERR WILL SPEAK TO
TEKNON CLUB MEMBERS,
ON TODAY'S CARD
The Teknon Club will hold its first 
meeting of the new semester on next 
Thursday evening at 6 p. m. at the 
Sliadyside Presbyterian Church. Dr. 
Kerr will be the speaker.
All members are requested to sign 
up on the bulletin boards in M. M. and 
at the head of the cut.
DR. PARMALEE TO 
SPEAK HERE SOON
To be of Interest to Local 
Manufacturers as Well 
as Students
To Dance in Union 
After Game Tonight
Collegiate Imps to Play at 
Camegie-Pitt Frolic
Musical Clubs Call for 
More Men On Ohio Trip
Fifty more singers are needed for 
the Men's Glee Club and almost as 
many- for the Mandolin Club. The 
officers of the club are endeavoring 
to make the club the largest and best 
ever representing Carnegie Tech.
The next rehearsal is on Sunday 
and all wishing to try out for - the 
Eastern and Western trips should re
port at the exhibition room in the Col
lege of Fine Arts at 2:30 sharp;
Mandolin Club men 
Union.
By the grace of the gods and the 
administration, Pitt and Carnegie stu
dents re to be permitted to enjoy a 
dance after the game tonight. The 
opening strains of that teasing jazz 
which has made the Collegiate Imps 
famous will set the air waves wav
ing at nine oclock exactly. So there 
will be no delay when you arrive 
after the game.
The man at the door will ask to 
see your registration card. Either 
Pitt or Carnegie cards make the 
bearers eligible fo admission. The 
stiudents from north of Forbes street 
are especially invited.
Nothing could be better after sit
ting for two hours on the unpadded 
bleachers than to stretch cramped 
muscles in the Union with sweet 
Rosie OGrady herself for a partner, 
and it will cost you only a dollar
report at the and a quarter. The fun will end at
twelve.
When the Sheets Made Up By Girls 
Printers Have to Comb Their Curls
The first of a series of five lec
tures on chemical engineering pro
blems will be given Friday, February 
8, at 8:30, in' Room 218 of the Sci
ence Building, by Dr. H. C. Parmalee, 
Editor of Cemical and Metallurgical 
Engineering. Dr. Parmalee will speak' 
on "The Relation of Chemical Equip
ment to the Pittsburgh Industries."
This series has been arranged un
der the joint auspices of the Com
ical Equipment Association and Car
negie Tech, for the special benefit of 
Pittsburgh industries, and each lec
ture will consider problems of pecu
liar Interest to manufacturers in this 
district.
Dr. Parmalee, the first lecturer, is 
widely known in this district; because 
of his activities in the American 
Chemical Association, and the Amer
ican Institute of Chemical Engineers. 
He Is a native of Nebraska and re
ceived his B. S. and A. M. degrees in 
Chemistry from the University of 
Nebraska. His industrial work was 
with the Union Pacific Railroad Com
pany in Omaha and the American 
Smelting and Refining ; Company in 
Denver. Very early in his career lie 
entered editorial work, first as editor 
of the Mining Ropoter, next on the 
Western Chemist, and finally on 
Chemical and Metallurgical Engineer
ing, and thereby has kept closely 
Identified with the mining and metal
lurgical industry of the West. In 
191G he was invited to be one of a 
group of 15 business paper editors 
to visit England and Europe as guest 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Registration, *
JO to  11:30 a. m.1:00 to ?
4:00 p. m.
Parade of Baud, *
6:30 p. m. *
Lighting of Bonfire,
6:45 p. ni.
Snake Dance,
7:00 p. in. *
Prelim Game, 
Carnegie-Pltt Plebes, *
7:15 p. m. *
CarnegiefPitt Basket Ball *
8:15 p. m. :*
VOTE TAKEN ON B0K 
PEACE PLAN TODAY
Ballots to be Distributed Dur
ing RegistrationStudents 
Vote!
REMEMBER "MOONLIGHT MAID?
GAMBOL OF GUILDS TO 
HAVE NOVEL SETTING
In last weeks Tartan thoro 
were several articles on tho Bok 
Peace Plan, giving tho plan itsoiC and 
the object of voting for or against it, 
which we hope you all road and 
thought about. Today and tomorrow 
are voting days, and. it is tho duty 
of overy Carnegie Tech student to 
express his or her opinion oL tho 
value of tho plan. In order to form 
a Pfeul opinion, and to voto into 
gently, tho plan must bo road and 
thought out, so now that exams aro 
ovejr we will have time to dig out 
last weeks Tartan, which wo merely 
skimmed over before and read am! 
digest everything about tho B'ok 
Peace Plan. Profossor Wurts of tho 
Electrical Research Department, and 
a personal t'rioml of Mr. Bok, In urg
ing students to vote says, The ris
ing generation is tho ono most Inter
ested In averting the "noxt war, and 
therefore the students should give 
their opinions oil tho subject."
The vote Is to be taken February 
5 and 6 in Langley Lab. during regis
tration. Ballots will be distributed 
it the entrance to the Lab. and col
lected at tho exit.
A summary of the plan follows:
Think It over and then vote.
THE PLAN IN BRIEF.
Proposes
I. That the United States shall im 
mediately enter the Premaneht Court 
of International Justice, under the 
conditions stated by Secretary Hughes 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Plans for me Gambol of the Guilds, 
to be held) in the Union February 21, 
are aboub complete. Preliminary 
tickets will go on sale during the reg
istration days. It is to be empha
sized that this dance is a four-school 
affair, and all iCarnegie students and 
alumni are invited.
The committee, consisting of Joe 
Davis, chairman; Hen Dosey, F. 
Brooks, R. Gill, J. D. Bridges and 
Gooby, has spent much time and ef
fort! to make this years Gambol even 
better than last years. It is not a 
costume affair, as it was originally, 
but the committee' has some pleasant 
surprises in the way of decorations 
and entertainment! which will give 
the historical effect that Carnegie 
Tech has celebrated every year.
The assessment is $2.50 per cou(Continued on Page Three.)
Woe, woe, woe! Alack and alas! 
A terrible accident has occurred, a 
a blood-curdling hair.raising mishap.
Ten printers washed by mistake.
It wasnt their fault. Anyone might 
have made the same error. Here's 
how it happened.
One member of The Tartan staff 
announced calmly:
On Monday morning each printer 
appeared with a clean face and two 
spotless hands. They spent the morn
ing figuring out who everybody was 
a difficult, procedure with no ink 
marks to guide them. All the hither
to hidden details of their fellow 
printers countenances came in for a 
large share of interest and applause.
With the coming of afternoon, the
On Monday the real brains of the I atmosphere became tense with the 
staff will be down to help make up. | great strain until the humidity broke 
; Watch and wait. | its elastic limit and appeared
Tartan Staff Will Make
Two Inspection Trips
The Tartan Staff will make two 
trips of inspection between semes
ters, one this afternoon at one oclock 
through the entire college and the 
other tomorrow at one oclock through 
the Western Newspaper Union, wjbere 
tlie Tartan is printed.
Co!. Fairley, Superintendent of 
Operation and Maintenance, has vol
unteered to personally conduct th 
taff through the whole school from
And naturally the printers jumped  beads of prspiration on each mans t}ie tower in Machinery Hall to the
DR. BAKER TO SPEAK AT
NEW YORK CLAN DINNER
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, President ol 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
will speak tonight, in New York City 
before a dinner and reunion of tho 
Carnegie Tech Alumni Clan of New 
York City, to bo held at the MeAlpin 
Hotel. G. L. Tilbrook, Executive 
Secretary of the Aluimni Association, 
will also attend as a guest of tho 
Clan.
STAGE IS SET FOR 
CHINESE FESTIVAL
YEA CARNEGIE! PEP RALLY IN 
BOWL AT 6:45 AND PITT GAME 
WILL OPEN NEW GYMNASIUM
H. A. AFFEL WILL SPEAK
AT A. I. E. E. MEETING
At tho next meeting of the A. I. 
E. E. Mr. H. A. Affel of tho American 
Tel. & Tel. Co., will speak on the 
subject "Carrier Telephone and Tele
graph Systems".
This is going to be 0110 of tho best 
meetings of tho year aiid several en
gineers from local telephone compa
nies will bo present. The mooting 
will be hold on Wednesday, February 
13, at S:00 p. in. Tho postors will give 
the mooting place.
DRAMAT PLEBES 
IN FIRST PLAYS
Two Separate Casts Produce 
"Esther Showing Stage 
Ability of Plebes
Occidental Orientals Ready 
for Magnificent Feast of 
the Lanterns
Preparations for tho Feast ol! the 
Lanterns" are nejarly complotod, and 
by tho tlmo tho lanterns havo boon 
lighted on Friday*1 evening, the fires 
of enthusiasm which havo boon 
smouldering through tho past, wook 
of preparation for tho ball will have 
burst Into flame.
Frbini the oclioos that float through 
Arts School bo. It known that tho 
music (for "Joy of the Lanterns" tho 
musical siiow is oxtromoly catchy." 
In, wailflowors" ono of tho major 
choruses of tho show are found: 
Rossiyn Doyle', Eleanor Campbell. 
Lou Iso Colobrook, Kathryn Woohtoi', 
Maroialno Walsh and Amy Glnssfoi'd, 
Appearing In the Marionette" chorus 
aro: Peg Glffon, Both Lindsay, Juno* 
Howard, Mid Lucas, Mury Walters, 
Bertha Orman, Httlon B. Johnson and 
Grotohon Hoffman.
Tho principals ol' tho cast, Include 
Mary Slcinkay as Joy Ming, Alan 
Norn as Companolta, a Venetian vag
abond; Mary Brown as Muclioo 
Washoe, manager ol' a laundry; Eva 
Sponcor as Kum Tu, lady In waiting; 
Doc Taylor as Sipoodoza, companion 
to Companolta; Paul McGrath as tho 
Emperor; il-JJarry Morvls as Contusion, 
tho Interpreter; Hurdle Albright as 
Sooin Up, tho royal tailor; Ohio New
man as Arnld, the camol driver, and 
Mr. Yui aa Watza Hoad, tho' oxoculloner. Tho cast Includes a number 
of attendants. The writer and pro
ducer Is Herb Polesie and the music 
by Verner Haldone. Bill Adair Is 
costumor, and assisting him aro Janet 
Mlllis, Cora Pitcairn, Ida ICrans and 
(Continued on Page Three)
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Mr. Wallace presented' the Froshmen of the Drama Department In Ilio 
Maseiilold Esther," the week of Jan
uary 21.
Though tills apearanco culminates 
the usual throe or 'four months' 
surmising and wondering obout the 
general and indlviual value of tho 
now students, it does not remove tho 
fact that time alono will determine 
ouch students capacity for develop
ment.
Esther" was an unusually success
ful production for tho first, appoarance 
of Fresh men---though later on or at 
the end of tho year It may not havo 
surprised us,
Mr. Wallace produced beautiful 
pagoantry, beautiful chorals and a 
wollachloved, variety In tho verse. 
Aleno Gregory, a numi her of tho 
Freshman class, wrote a prologue for 
tint play. Her verso was more than 
adequately titled to tho stylo, porlod 
and vorse of Esther," and the Fresh
men may well bo proud of the Ph. D. 
member:; of thejir class.
Glmrlottlo Slchumanu, a graduate of 
tho P. & S., a student In produc
tion, Is another unusual asset to tho 
Freshman class. Miss Schumann's 
sots wore gorgeous when, that olToct 
was d'osirod and they woro weird 
when she wan tad them so. Miss 
Grogory was again votry. successful 
s designer of tho costumes.
A usual two casts played, 
CHARACTERS
Tologue, .foe Wadsworth.................
............................... Edward Downes
Esther, Jeanne Blake.Marian Beotian 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Stunts Being Planned 
For 1924 Science
Cites and Kilts Will Launch 
the Good Ship New Gym' 
in Sea of Athletics Between 
Games
MAIN GAME IS AT 8:00
RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL?Juniors and Sophs Select 
Stunt Committees
TARTANS WILL PLAY AT 
SOPHOMORE BANQUET
basement in Margaret Morrison. 
Shops, laboratories, studios and offices 
will be visited and the different work
ings of each department will be exi to the conclusion that he meant yie brow.
j girls staff would be out in full force! j Suddenly the door opened! Could
1 Man is always so eager to bow be-1 it be the girls? It was time for them.
/ fore feminine intelligence. \ They gazed shyly upward, and
The printers were quite naturally i glanced down again, their faces , plained,
excited and wrought up. They talked | lengthening in inverse proportion! This trip will give the members of 
it up big and made heroic plans for i to the time it took them to grasp; the staff accurate knowledge of all 
the day. [ - (Continued on Page Four.) I (Continued on Page Tiiree.)
The aim and good of this column is 
to refute the well established belief 
that the average college student has 
no clearly formed conceptions or well 
defined opinion pf any matter apart 
from his daily, studies and customary 
amusements, by recording here the 
spontaneous reactions of various per
sons connected with the school upon 
questions of current interest.
The question: Are you in favor
of adopting the honor system at Car
negie.
Professor10. T. Geckler, head of the 
Mathematics Department says:
I think that a real honor system 
(and by a real system I mean one un
der which all students will co-operate 
with the governing machine to detect 
cribbing) can be instituted in the 
three upper classes, but not in the 
Freshman class."
Professor Leeds, head of the De
partment of Machine Production 
says:
"I am heartily in favor of the honor 
system, and I am convinced that It 
will be a suocess If put Into operation 
at Carnegie."
Mr. Swanson cf the History Depart
ment:
I believe that the honor system Is 
a very successful institution, but be
fore it could be introduced here the 
proper attitude must be developed to
wards the honor system."
Cy Hoenniger, Civil, 25, says:
The Honor System is a fine ono, 
but it could never be a success here 
because the work Is too hard. It 
might work on exams, but if students 
didnt help each other out on home 
work, there would be a large crop of 
failures.
The committee for the Sophomore 
Banquet has engaged the Tartans to 
dispense the Intoxicating strains of 
jazz at the class feast on the 15th. 
Plans for the evening already give 
promise of ono exciting night. Sec
tion leaders will begin a concerted 
ticket sal on Thursday.
The Tartans have lately won much 
favor on the campus for their faithfu!, yet pepful, renditions of the mu
sic a la mode. The Sophomores are 
expecting music extraordinary that 
night and the orchestra selection 
gives assurance that there will be no 
disappointment.
A. C. Lackey refused to divulge 
anything about the program/ which 
ho has prepared for tlie occasion. 
When asked for a hint as to its na
ture he admitted that he might de(Contlnued on Page Four.)
Mortar Board Conducts 
Shilling Sales Campaign
The Mortar Board girls havo Oiken 
upon themselves to help the Shilling 
by conducting a sales campaign on 
Fobruary 10. The girls believe that 
the Shilling Is not being supported by 
tho school as it should bo and thoy 
take this moans of showing their In
terest.
It should bo remembered that tlie 
Shilling as well as the other school 
publications must havo the support of 
overyone to be able to continue. The 
articles [n the Shilling are of tho high
est merit and Shillings reputation as 
Carnegie's one literary publication 
should not be overlooked. Why not, 
when you send a Puppet home, send 
also a Shilling and give the folks 
something worth reading, a kind of a 
happy medium. Do not forget "-Shill-.
I ing Day Tuesday, February 19.
Stag
Two stunt committees for tho Sci
ence Stag have already boon named. 
Both the Juniors and Sophomores 
have chosen the men who will con
duct the entertainment w,hlch their 
classes will furnish for the 1924 stag,
which will bo held In the Union on
the evening of March 15.
Midge Matter, president of the En
gineering Junior class, has appointed 
the following men for the Junior 
stunt committee: W. Fencil, chair
man; T. L. Bieber, N. C. Weser, O.
Will, M. C. Bitner, J. Steen and F.
Hammerschlag.
John OConnor, president of the 
Science Sophomore class, has select
ed the following men to serve on the 
Sophomoie stunt committee: D.
Kramer, chairman, S'eaman, P. Edie, 
and W. Wilson.
These committees will meet some
time this week and begin prepara
tions for their part in the 1924 Sci(Continued on Page Three)
Tho bonfire is ready. AIL plans for 
tho rally have been completed. There 
1s going to bo a real celebration pro
ceeding the opening of the new gym, 
and the whole darn" school is going 
to bo there. The band will wear their 
kilts, the Cites will wear their tams, 
it is even rumored that Doctor Ba
kers so happy that ho is going to put 
on his cap and gown for the occasion; 
All that is needed to make tho rally 
and bonfire the biggest ever, and the 
best, is tho blggost turnout, of the stu
dent body in our history. Twentythree hundred throats are needed to 
give the yolls right, and twenty-throe 
hundred means that wo must havo a 
hundred per cent turnout.
Ray will introduce tho speakers, and 
will also direct tho staging of the sur* 
prise feature of the Cites in tho now 
gym where tho now .gym will bo 
launched Into tho sea of athletics.
As for tho program, it Is short, it 
snappy, but It is full of surprlsorj. Tho 
ceremonies will bo started promptly 
at *: -15 and studonts aro requested 
to ussoniblo when thoy hoar tho band 
parading at 0:80. At (5:45 tho crowd 
will pack In tho rosorvod section on 
the football field, and as tho bonllro Is 
lit will slug tho Alma Mater. Thou 
will somo yolls, short talks by Buddy 
Ovorond and Coach Lublc, syngs, 
(Continued on Pago Four.')
Drive for Student 
Relief Will Begin
Date Set for Feb. 12Desire 
Students to Respond
Tho student rollo/! drive In to be
gin this your with out general1 assomibtyi on February, it2i .1,loginning 
at this time a campaign will lie con
ducted on tiho campus and every loy
al Tech man and woman will be expoctod to malco his donation.
This drive Is our part In it. nation
al movement. Tho colleges In Amer
ica havo pledged $250,000 as thelv 
share In thoi world movement. Vain, 
Cornell and Harvard have Just com
pleted tl.olr campaign. Pitt and 1. 
C. W. aro having theirs tills month. 
Ours begins on Fobruary 12.
It; Is tho plan of tho committee to 
soil meal Olckots which are exact du
plicates of those distributed by tho 
Student Rollof Kitchens In Europe. 
Each ticket costs a dime and each 
dime collected entitles some Europoan student to a moat.
Tho entire expense of tho national 
campaign is being borne by a pri
vate donor in Now York and every 
(Continued on Page Throe.)
Committee Working On
Plebe Banquet Plans
Although no'definite date lias been 
set, arrangements are' going ahead 
rapidly for tho Plebe Banquet. The 
committees In charge under chair
men Steward Brown of Arts and Nor
wood Pelclitel of Science and Indus
tries are working hard to complete 
the details and expect to give them 
out soon.
Present indications are that the 
feast will be held about the middle of 
February at the Rittenhouse in East 
Liberty. One hundred and fifty pre
liminary tickets have been sold and 
while no attempt is now being made 
to aell more, a drive will probably be 
started after the details of the ban
quet are given out.
Fein and Klein Discuss the En
forcement of Plebe Regulations
By Carl Gunther.
Say", Max Klein busts out tho 
other night when he breaks into my 
room without preface, whats become 
of thin hero Sophomore class. Was 
they born 'that way or Is it a case of 
environment?"
Well, you cant really blame them 
for mistaking you as a Plobo," I says, 
In hope of soothing his somewhat ruf
fled temper, you know. * * *"
Mistake, hell, those Sophomores 
aro too dumb to make a mistake. And 
anyway, if It was a mistake it- might 
a been excusable. Some people just 
cant help being dumb. But that 
aint It. Just now I was fighting with 
one of Skibos hamburgers and a cou
ple of Sophs was doing likewise at tlie 
adjoining table, when a Plebe walks in 
with sort of a haughty look, felt hat,
and green necktie with brown spots 
on it.
I didnt like his looks, air, or any
thing else, so to set him down a peg, 
I says, Give mo a match, Plebe sort 
of rough-like, and ho glvos me a cold 
once-ovor and loftily informir n**o that; 
being as ho dont smoko lie likewise 
don't carry matches. I looks at the 
Sophs, they looks at eachother, grins 
sort of slck-Uko, and gets up to walk 
out."
But you cant blame tlie whole 
class, Max, just because two * *
"That aint all, Fein, and you know 
it. Why the other day, i saw a Plebe 
walking across the cut with a girl at 
noon, and I seen about six Plebes to
day already, without their official lids. 
They break all the rules, even the 
other day, if I hadnt looked at one 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5. 1924
PubliBhed every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie lnatltute of 
Technology under the supervision o! the Student Council.
Entered In the Postoillce of Pitta burgh VOT Bocond-claBB matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ACTING BUSINESS MANAGER................................................Illland 401 I J
KENNETH ARNOLD 
FRED C. SMITH.... 
FRED T. PHELPS..
.....................................Schonley 189Managing Editor
..................................................Assistant Managing Editor
..................................................ABBlBtant Managing Editor
SAHA MAH EVERE'I 
MAftK S. DOWNES 
II. H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 'j....................................................................Schenloy 0220
NEWS EDITORS
F. I). ROSSINI.........
A. S. ANDREWS. ...
.................................................................. Schonley 0070
i........................................................................ Schenloy 0211
A. E. KROCH............
E. C. FRAZIER........
.............................................Schenloy 0070Alumni Editor
...........................................Schonley 03.48Athletic Editor
It. W. BLEAT 11 .... 
W. K. JEFFREY.... 
E. I*. CO USE, JR....
......................................................................... Photographer
........ p/..................................................Exchaiigo Ed 1 tor .............................................................................Art Editor
W. M. GIBSON..........
Oiitollo Barlbaldl 
Elizabeth Jane, Gordon 
Wilma Stlner 
Carol Folght 
Maigarot McFall 
Rosemary McCainbrldgo 
F.. L. Kennedy
Nora Wlllets 
Aimee Pharo 
N. C. WeBor 
V. B. Smith 
L. II. Harris 
IO. G. Johnson 
K. Fulmer 
A. F. Carson
J. M. Goss 
F. L. Wagner 
F. M. McClelland 
M. W. Gay 
13. E. Kerns 
C. A. Lundqulst 
II. L. Lepper 
J. N. Conley
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. MoBkovlt/., J. W. Metro, P. Edle, It. L. Sandroclc, A. "Grodner, A. 
Barbrow, A. Perref.on, Lee C. Osborne.
The Editor-In-Chief ET responsible for the policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news Items must be in the student 
post oillce before 4:.'Hi Thursday.
1:20.
Tartan OillcoRoom D-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30-
AT II LET IC CONTRI BU TO RS 
Jacoby T. Christoff J. F. Harris E. C. Plummer ____________I_____
One Who Never Turned His Back
NP the Carnegie Tartan gocn l;o press, we learn Aviththe deepest sorrow and regret oJ! the death ol! ex-.President Woodrow Wilson. The passing 5:11 our late leader is 
casting a shroud oJ! gloom over our country comparable 
only to that which enveloped the North, and I lie South 
alike, when the assassination ol: Abraham .Lincoln was 
announced;
II; is particularly appropriate that we, .as college men 
sand women, should honor the fallen chief. His service as 
president ol! Princeton University and career as an educa
tor arc such as will call Iorth the admiration ol: the ages 
when viewing the annals ol history. * Not only was his 
own scholarship excellent, but. his perpetual interest in 
the progress ol! his Alma Mater and the attainments of 
her sons, young and old nlilco, are a good cxamplo for us, 
when some day we shall bo Alnnini, though less illus
trious.
The record ol! Woodrow Wilsons public servico 
stands unblemished. Not even in the heal; ol! the bitter* 
league fight was ill suggested that he had erred in any 
way, but in that oi! idealism, and, al!t;or all, that is a sin 
which more ol us should come closer to committing than 
wo do, It n especially wholosomo l!or us to view the rec
ord ol our form or commander-in-chief, in these .days, 
when the scandals being uncovered at Washington are 
shaking one's faith in tlio fundamental honesty ol! the 
human race.
It will not I'all to our pardo judge the final histor
ical ranking of Woodrow Wilson as a .Prosidenl; ol! the 
United Btates, That will I'all to the lot of our children 
and our childrens children. Suffice it for us to grieve 
at Hit' death passing of a noble soul. However miporfoet 
his accomplishments, his faith, and his ideals for the good 
ol! humanity form a worthy example, iudeod, for us to 
follow.
It is said that when the ex-President was informed 
that his end was near, he whispered with his lasl. remain
ing strength J am ready. The words typify his spirit. 
III! was ever and always ready.
The words of Browning are called to mind, when one 
thinks ol! the life of Wilson:
One who never turned his back, but marched breast 
forward,.
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed though rights were worsted, wrong would 
triumph,
He'held we fall to rise,
Arc baffled to fight better,
SLEEP TO WAKE."
THE NEW GYM AT LAST
SCRAPS 0 PLAID
By Hal & Mac.
Why the Y?
This little ijuestidn has probably 
vexed more than one student and 
we're going to try to prove herein 
the why of the "Y."
In Room 124 just off the Industries 
hallway, wo ilnd a little office and to 
one side' a spacious clubjroom, the 
headquarters of the Carnegie Tech 
Y. M. . A. Behind the desk in the, 
office is an active, pleasant-faced 
mail always ready to 'be of service to 
anyone who needs a helping hand. 
This man Is Mr. DaYib, the executive 
secretary. 
Furthermore the Y 's behind a 
number of activities about the-camp
us. They are activities which do 
not as a rule gain a lot of publicity, 
but nevertheless they are services 
which make tlio life of the students 
more iivablo.
The Senlor-Counsellor Plan, through 
which new students are ^ivon the 
correct idea of their responsibilities 
and privileges, the inter-fraternitv 
Basket Ball Leagues; definite co-op
eration with tho Institute Chapel; 
Dlscuaslon Groups in which students 
rmiy study under competent leaders, 
the vital questions of religion; enter
tainment and personal co-operation 
with foreign studentb in our collego; 
and co-operaion with the local 
churches in helping the student find 
a church home, are a Jew of the 
services that the organization per
form.
Second Semester 
Registration
February 5 and 6Read Carefully
1. After the copies of your sched
ule have been approved, class coupons 
will be issued in the office of the di
rector. Each student receives one 
coupon for each subject on his sched
ule. Only name, class, and course, 
should be inserted on the three sec
tions of each coupon.
2. The student should then report 
to the registration room (Langley 
Laboratory) presenting the two cop
ies of tho approved schedule and all 
coupons arranged in the order in 
which the subjects aro listed on the 
schedule.
Beftfre entering the registration 
room, tho student should be prepared 
to pay the rcgular fees ($95.00) and 
laboratory charges. A schedule of 
laboratory charges is posted on the 
bulletin boards. All checks must be 
made payable to A. N. Heyl, cashier.
4. Registration should not be de
layed. A penalty of ?1.00 per day or 
fraction of a day, will He imposed on 
those who register after the registra
tion dates, February 5th and Gth.
ALAN BRIGHT,
 Registrar.
HOOT MON!
In view of the considerate "with
drawal of the Hoot Mon from the 
Rook-the-students Contest so closely 
waged by the various eating establish
ments on the campus, why not place 
some sort of a memorial on Che old 
camping grounds.
All in favor please signify their in
tentions by sending a dime to the ed-itor and a suitable memorial will be 
selected. A statue of His Master*. 
Voice properly supplemented by a 
few tender thoughts should not prove 
inappropriate.
Upon this site the Hoot Mon stood,
A vain attack on profiteers 1 
To lower prices if it could,
The Hoot Mon didnt last two years.
In addition to ihese, there are: 
the visitation of the sick in hospitals 
by Y mon, i. e., by students and 
by faculty; weekly swims at Sc henley High School for Carnegie Tech 
Students; entertainment of students 
who remain in the city over the vaca
tions; co-operation with the Student 
Employment Agency and the agen
cies of the Pittsburgh Y. M. . A.: 
stags and entertainments throughout 
the year; delegations to the Silver 
Bay Y. M. C. A. Conference; delega
tions to tin? Student Volunteer Con
vention; club rooms In the Central 
Building and Scobel Hall; and Sun
day afternoon servico in the dormi
tory Y. M. C. A. Chib Room.
To back him up In carrying out 
these activities,, Mr, Davis has the 
Committee and the Student Cabinet, 
tlio former made un of faculty mem
bers and the latter ol tho following 
students: Griggs, I-Ioenniger, Frazier, 
Newman, Gill, Wilson, Schuckor, 
Morn, Simpson, Patton and Bastian.
And to further carry out these vari
ous services, there must be the finan
cial backing which comes largely 
through tho contributing membership 
of the studcaits in the "Y.
FORM CARNEGIE-PITT 
FIRING BATTERY SOON
And so, 'fellow students, tho next 
time you are approaehod to join tho 
"Y," or to aid In some of Its activi
ties dont burden tho other fellow 
with a lot of whys and wherefpfes, 
Juflt nay, Why afire 1 Id bo glad to 
be of service."
The possibility of a collegiate firing 
battery, composed of one-lialf Car
negie and the other half Pitt atudents. 
bus been practically assured. This 
unit known as Battery C. 17Gth F. A. 
which is now at Pitt, under Col. W. I. 
Dunlap, is a part of one of the oldest 
regiments the United States, hav
ing been organized in 1831. The pro
posed plan will serve not only to cre
ate a friendly rivalry in the battery 
but will conform exactly to the new 
code of school relationship and activ
ities.
Each man is required to sign up 
for three years and must attend drill 
once each week for a period of one 
and one-half hours for which he will 
receive regulation pay according to 
rank. He is also required to attend 
the fifteen-day camp, held in the Poc'ono Mountains at Tobyhanna, Pa. No 
region in eastern Pennsylvania has 
greater natural beauty and a wider di
versity of national features than the 
elevated plateau.
The students who join the national 
guard will naturally receive more con
sideration upon graduation, Svhen Re
serve Officers Commissions are given 
by the Unltod States Army. Iivcase 
of an emergency, such as the late war, 
the members of such a battery will 
likewise bo first in line for promo
tions.
Thistle Bills Must be
Paid Prior to Feb. 15
All organizations whose bills re
main unpaid after February 15, will 
not have their pictures and writeups 
included In tho Thistle. All cln^plcs 
in payment of bills should be made 
payable to M. D, Kallfolz, troaBuror, 
and sent to 4807 Bnum boulevard, or
Aiter months of waiting and delay, Carnegie Tech s new gymna
sium will be opened with a game against tliq Pitt Panther, the first 
in several years. This opening is more than the mere dedication of a 
building; it is something more important. Up to this time, every step 
in the development of the school has been with the idea of giving 
better facilities for instruction; every new building, every new piece 
of equipment, every expenditure of money has been made with the 
sole purpose of bettering our educational opportunities,
The school shows the results of this policy today. Carnegie Tech 
ranks with the best schools of its kind in the country. We are proud 
ol its reputation, and justly so. But there was something lacking. 
Men who thought, about the subject, decided that. Carnogie athletics 
Avere not growing in proportion. Football flourished, but the winter 
sports were objects of pity. And why? Lack of proper equipment 
was the answer.
Give us the chance, and we will support, your teams, said the 
students. The idea of a new gym was discussed. Diflleulties arose. 
Carnegie Tech had never spent money before for anything like this. 
The gym was not absolutely essential: at. least; it. wasnt necessary to 
spend so much money upon it when the money could be well spent 
otherwise.
Someone, however, had the breadth of view to see that if Car
negie Tech were to continue to expand, that she must not be narrow, 
every side ol' student; life must be taken care of, physical as well as 
mental. So, although it was a departure from precedent, the new 
gym was started.
Tonight it is finished.
Tonight Carnegie Tech, with the best gym in the state, takes its 
place with the other major institutions in the matter of educational 
equipment.
Tonight we enter a new era in the. history of Carnegie Tech. 
While Our educational standard is, and always shall be. of paramount 
importance, our athletics take to themselves a new importance and 
dignity.
This is the true significance of the opening of tlfc gym; that 
Carnogie Tech assumes a broader outlook; that; from now on the 
development of the man, not his mind alone, is the ideal.
Our opponent; for the opening is Pitt, which is just as it should 
be, No other rival could so honor the occasion. Every student 
should be on hand tonight. There will never be another opening of 
the new gym, and anyhow, the team is going to need lots of moral 
Support to win.
A WORD TO FRESHMEN, THOUGH SOPHS AND JUNIORS 
MAY WELL NOTE
Its an old, old story -as old as the venerable tower topping 
Machinery Hull -is this welcome to an incoming class at Dear Old 
Tech. But, as old as it is, we extend to you a cordial welcome, and 
just as tobacco grows mellow with age, so does this greeting. There 
is the same old ring of sincerity sounding from within too, for we are. 
glad from the very depth of our hearts that youre going to be one of 
us and we hope and pray right along with you that you will remain 
with us for four prosperous years of loyalty to yourself and Car
negie Tech.
And right here, please let us repeatperhaps in a different way 
a few wise words of counsel.
Carnegie is a great college, and #mll grow greater the more you 
put yourself into it;. Nothing has yet existed and grown without co 
operation between all concerned, and at Carnegie we are no different 
from all other things in this respect. We are not a-thing apart.,
Tis said that a girl loves attention. Likewise so docs Carnegie, 
Tech. Perhaps a somewhat unusual comparison, but nevertheless, 
the fact remains that if 1 love a girl, I am going to shower attentions 
upon her, and if she loAres me, she will return. Let us take it for 
granted that Carnegie loves all of her studentsif a concrete thing 
can love, yet, we can not admit that Carnegie is concrete. It is 
pulsing with life and vitality, for Carnegie is not that mass of brick 
and steel thrown together to represent buildings; it is its student 
body, and who can say that this student body does not pulse with 
life, activity, love, feelings and what-not?
So, if you !re to have your fellow-students, who are Carnegie 
Tech, love and respect you, shower attentions upon her. Get in .ac
tivitieshelp us who are ingive us competition for our positions of 
honorfor, just as in business, so is it at Carnegie Teeliit is com
petition which makes us better.
Freshmen, get into the swimget into activitiesbut, do-notnegleet-your-studies, for, if you do, you will not be able to do either.
Remember, the man who starts in an activity when a Freshman 
and sticks it out, usually nine times out of ten, gets,to the top.
To Cy Hoenniger, who made the 
expression Hoot Mon famous in Plaid 
traditions, this column is respectfully 
dedicated, and with the demise of the 
Greeks, alias the Hoot Mon, impend
ing, it is not improper to perpetuate 
the term by these comments.
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE
Business in the Commons is daily 
increasing and many innovations are 
creeping in. We can remember when' 
the Commons was affectionately (?) 
referred to as the Beanery.
Apparently the new dietitian ap
proves of the unit systemeach por
tion on its own platein fact some 
portions almost approach ultimate 
units. With due credit to Miss Portlock, might we not say that this trans
formation is almost a saucery?
Potatoes, carrots, mush and meat, 
Each upon a separate plate;
You think you get a lot to eat, 
Depending on your mental state.
| This year marks an epoch in the j 
j history of Carnegie. THE NEW j 
GYMNASIUM WILL OPEN ITS j 
1 DOORS TONIGHT.
! To be sure, the opening is not for- j 
I mal. It is only semi-official even, but j 
i what do we care for formalities? The 
hopes and dreams of students of the j 
j generations that have preceded us | 
j have been for that which we now are j 
about to realize. We are to have a i 
| new gym. In fact, we have a Gym.
All honor to the old structure which j 
i in the years past, have watched the !
I Tartan spirits droop and rise as the 
favor o Dame Fortune shifted now 
I this way, now that. We can not but 
| feel happy however, that those days 
j are now only a part of our history.
; From now on, we will have elbow 
j room when we wish to take a bit of ex 
ercise.
j When I was a Plebe, I took hygiene.
| Not, you understand, due to any true j 
or pretended desire'* on my part, but 
owing to the fact that the all-powerful 
powers said that I should be educated 
in the Science of Hygiene, I went to 
attend lectures. It is a tribute to 
Dr. Esquerre, that he succeeded in 
driving away from my thoughts in 
those lecture hours the fears for the 
coming math quiz, which is just what 
he did. In fact I became rather inter
ested in the subject, but what I re
member particularly is one morning, 
wnen the worthy doctor requested us 
to tell him whether or no,-we would 
take more exercise than we now did 
if we were given proper facilities.
I believe everyone in th class voted 
"Aye.
With the coming of another semes
ter, new schedules will have to be ar
ranged and most of the irregulars will 
try to accumulate the necessary num
ber of units by electing as many pipe 
courses as possible.
Remember that not only Is ' time 
wasted when you are doing nothing 
Ibut also when it might be better em
ployed for doing something else.
Such action an irregular often jus
tifies by the plea that his activities 
are a considerable burden and he can
not carry more work; in fact, this is 
usually the cause of his irregularity. 
A man with a charming personality 
need only make good in one activity 
and he is in almost universal demand. 
The responsibilities he readily shoul
ders for they are honors,1 and before 
long his studies degenerate into a 
mere avocation.
it takes a good man to receive hon
ors but it requires a better man to 
refuse them.
Much advice is doled out yearly 
about the subjugation of activities to 
studies but who is really swayed by 
it?
People dont want advice, they only 
desire a confirmation of their own 
opinion.
KARL.
Box 165 C. I. T. postoffico.
Any information desired by treas
urers of organizations, not. yet paid up, 
c;an be obtained by calling Mr. Kailfelz at Schonley 02S5.
If your bill is still unpaid, pay it up 
and help the Board make this years 
Thistle a success.
Now the opportunities are ours. In 
any event they soon will be. It is up 
to us now to redeem and make good 
such promises, even though they werenot actually made, for I believe every 
man, woman, and welleven the 
profs, gave the impression that all 
the student body here was waiting for 
before starting to develop into race 
of giants and giantesses was that new 
gym.
The trustees did not make a grant 
of .$-100,000 in order that we might 
win a few more basket ball games. 
Nor was the gym made as large as it 
is with a view to crowding as many 
as possible past the turnstile during 
championship events.
That gymnasium was built for the 
students as a body not for any group 
or groups of students. We should 
have more intramural athletics here 
at Carnegie. Now that we have the 
place, it is up to us to find the incli
nation for we have the talent.
EVERY MAN IN SOME LINE OF 
ATHLETICS.
Let that be the watchword of this 
spring and fall. When we have 
reached that goal we have done and 
are doing something GOOD FOR THE 
GOOD OF CARNEGIE.
Yours, For The Good Of Carnegie.
Appointments to 
West Point Open
Excellent Opportunity for 
Carnegie Students
IMPORTANT INVENTION
According to a statement given out 
by the Department of War, there are 
several appointments open to the 
United States Military Academy at 
West Point. Fifteen appointments 
are open in Pennsylvania, and there 
are also vacancies in other states. Ex
aminations of applicants will begin 
on March 4tli.
In order to be eligible, an applicant 
must be between the ages of seven
teen and twenty-two and must be an 
actual resident of the state from 
which he purports to be appointed. 
Applications should be addressed di
rectly to the proper senator or rep
resentative in-Congress.
Successful applicants will enter 
West Point July 1st. The govern
ment will pay all his expenses while 
he is there. Upon graduation one 
may accept the commission of s'econd 
lieutenant in the Regular Army, but 
is not compelled to do so.
Further information may be ob
tained from the Military Department 
in Industries Building.
REMEMBER MOONLIGHT MAID?
SCHOLARSHIP OFFERED 
TO JUNIOR ENGINEERS
Tlio Georgo 11. Smith Scholarship is 
awarded annually to a worthy junior 
engineering student by the Alumni 
Association of the College of Engi
neering. No student who lias incurred 
a serious scholastic censure will be 
considered as a candidate for the 
scholarship. In awarding the scholar
ship, scholastic standing, personal 
need* personality, and participation in 
school and class activities .will be ta
ken into consideration. Every junior 
engineering student Who has taken 
part m school activities, whose schol
arship is above average, and who is 
in financial need is invited to make 
application for this scholarship. 
Blanks may be obtained at the office 
of the Alumni Executive Secretary.
BEST SHOT IN ENGINEER 
UNIT IS OFFERED CUP
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5
Registration..........................................................Langley Laboratory
liondre............................................................6,:45 P. M,, Carnegio Howl
liaskct. Ball Cilniogid vs. Pill...............................................New Gym
Football Dance..............................................................9:80 1. M., Union
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY (i 
Registration............................................................Langley Laboratory
larraalee Loeturc................................................8:15 1'. M., 21S Science
'Feast of the Lanterns....................................9:00 P. M., Arts Fover
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Iost Ball Dance....:..............................................9:00 P. St., Arts Fover
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 12
General Assembly................................................................... Xew Gym
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 15
Sophomore Banquet......................................7:00 P. M., Hotel Schenlev
SATUKDAY, FEBRUARY IB
Benefit Bridge (11. M. Secretariats'}.....................................McCreerv's
THURSDAY, FEBKUAKY 21 
Gambol of the Guilds..................................................9 ;t)0 P. 51 Union
Large Registration in New 
C o u r s e s a t M. M. C. C.
Five special part-time courses in 
home economics and four part-time 
courses in social work will begin this 
week at the Margaret Morrison Car
negie College for Women, at Carnegie 
Tech, as another step in the expan
sion of the Institutes educational 
service.
Although the courses for women in 
home economics constitute an entirely 
new venture, it is reported that large 
numbers enrolled on the two regis
tration days last week, and more are 
expected to register during the com
ing week. Many of the students, it is 
reported, are married and have been 
attracted by the practicability of the 
new courses which include such sub
jects as Problems in Child Feeding, 
Marketing and Meal Planning, Dress
making, Millinery, and Art Dyeing.
The courses are to be given by the 
regular faculty staffs in the Depart
ments of Household Economics, and 
Costume Economics. Each course will 
consist of one exercise a week, for a 
period of from eight to ten wooks, 
either .in morning or afternoon.
1 addition to the new group of 
homo economic classes, a special se
ries of courses will begin this week 
in the Department of Soc'al Work, 
offered especially to social workers. 
Registration in these courses is an
nounced for Monday evening. Febm 
ary -1th at 7:30 p. 111.
Included in this extended service 
by the QSocial Work Department are 
courses yi Sociology, Social Philoso^ 
phy, Case Work Seminar and Recieation.
Captain Lyons, Adjutant of the Mili
tary Department, is offering a silver 
trophy cup this year to the best shot 
in tho Engineer Unit.
The contest is open to members of 
all four classes and is given with the 
idea of stimulating interest in rifle 
markmanship among the students in 
the Engineer Unit; Captain Lyons is 
an officer in the Corps of Engineers 
and firmly believes that engineers 
should bo good shots as well as good 
I road builders.
j The individual scores will be com| puted in the following manner. The 
i scores of each man inade^in practice 
and in matches under the supervision 
| of an officer or non-commissioned offi| cor will be recorded. The two highest 
scores made by each man will be 
j averaged, to eliminate any element of 
i luck, and the man having the highest 
j average will be declared the winner.
: The four positions considered in the 
contest are sitting, standing, kneeling 
and prone.
A new plan has been instituted this 
year by the Military Department 
wliereby it is hoped to improve the 
result of the rifle team in their 
matches with other teams. Each offi
cer in the department will have 
charge of a match, for which the 
coach of the team and arrange for 
practice shooting.
DO YOU KNOW IN BARCELONA?
Series of Addresses of Special 
Interest to Students.
Asbury Methodist 
Episcopal Church
BURT DAVID EVANS, D.D.
Sunday morning at 11 oclock 
Building a Working Faith. 
The Spiritual Faculty, The Quest 
of God*, Man and the Cosmos, 
Modern Science and the Origin 
of Life, The Garden of Eden.
Sunday evening at S oclock 
The lte-Discovery of Jesus, The 
Teaching of Jesus, Jesus and 
Spiritual Religion, The Educa
tion of Jesus, Jesus and Radi
calism.
Signor Edouard Godfrey, chief ma
jor domo of the Margaret Murphee 
building, with offices in basement of 
same, has invented a remarkable ro
dent exterminating device.
It is, or will be known to the trade, 
as a suicide trap, and is construct
ed as followsa sauare box is made 
of one-quarter mesh wire cloth, secure
ly closed on all sides, and in the ex
act center a hook is suspended, on 
which will be fastened a small por
tion of juicy tender meat, such as is 
served at Skibo Inn.
This contrivance is placed in haunts 
frequented by mice, rats, who on see
ing or smelling the meat, endeavor to 
get at same in the cage. As this is 
practically impossible, the rodents be
come so depressed that they go out
side and commit suicide.
M. Godfrey expects to patent this 
device both here and abroad.
COL. FAIRLEY.
FACULTY MEA\BERS TO 
ATTEND CONFERENCE
Carnegie Tech -is honored in having 
three members of the Social Work 
Department attend, as members of the 
Executive Committee, the 'Sixteenth 
Annual Meeting of the Pennsylvania 
State Conference oh Social Welfare, 
to be held in Wilkes-Barre on Febru
ary 13 to 16. Miss Mary J. R. Con
don of Carnegie Tech will be chair
man of the meeting to be held on Fri
day, February 15, and will speak on 
Social Work Functions and Pro
cesses. Miss Estelle Bonnell will 
open the discussion on Group Pro
cesses in Practice.
On Saturday, February 16, Miss 
Mary Clarke Burnett, head of the So
cial "Work Department, will open the . 
meeting with a discussion on Social 
Work Training Problems. Miss Bon
nell will again speak on Organization 
and Supervision Field Work.
The conference will be attended by 
social workers and social agencies 
from all over the state and all othors 
who are interested in social work 
progress and appreciation of profes
sional responsibility, and Carnegie 
Tech is fortunate in having three 
members of its staff in attendance.
rENUSPENCILS
ZJhe latest jellinj Qujlifyjpcr.alm the
T?OR the student or prof., the 
-*- superb YEN US out-rivals 
all for perfect pencil work. 
17 black degrees3 copying. 
American Lead 
Pencil Co.
Write for booklet on VENUS Pencils and ACLBF IRCGH:OL4C5 j Mechanical Pencils
RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL?
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
Take it home to 
the kids.
Have a packet in 
your pocket for an 
ever-ready treat.
A delicious confec
tion and an aid to 
the teeth, appetite, 
digestion.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5. 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&PLAID ATHLETICS

On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
PLAID CAGERS WILL 
I TEST STRENGTH SOON
TONIGHT
Tonight marks the resumption of basket hall hostilities between the 
quintets of Carnegie and Pitt. Whether this resumption is .a pleasant con
tinuance of relations or not depends almost entirely upon us, the student 
body of Carnegie Tech.This, of all times is the one when we must remember all the Skibo ideals 
of good sportsmanship and fair play. We must give Pitt a welcome as royal 
as the one they grave us last fall, and then we must turn in and make it as 
hot for their basketers as we did their football team.
The only thing that the dope tells us is that Pitt has won more games 
than we have, and that they will enter' the fray a strong favorite. But the 
Plaid has upset the dope so many times that no one is really offering any 
predictions. It is probable that two of the Pitt first-string players will be 
out of the game, due to ineligibility or illness. ' Chase and Flanagan will 
neither one be in the lineup, according to the Pitt authorities.
So far as we can make out, the only Tartans who will not be able to 
play are those who were/ ineligible at mid-semester, or who have been han
dicapped in practice and training by having been quarantined. Well, lets 
get out there and make it another victory over the Blue and Gold.
GOLF PLAYERS, WHAT DO YOU SAY?
The Athletic Council decides to support and back a golf team this year, 
and calls for candidates. Six men sign up and no more. Result, ho golf team. 
If there is really a demand for the sport in school, it must be manifested 
very soon, or the proposition will be abandoned as impractical at the pres
ent time. Now, yes, right now, give your name to Graduate Manager Buddy 
Overend, if you like golf, and will try out for the team.
A CHANCE TO SHOW OUR STUFF
We have already mentioned the fact that the championship of the 
W. P. I. A. L. will be decided on the floor of the new gym. The territory is 
divided into some eight or nine districts, and the winner in each division will 
be entered in the tournament to decide the Western Pennsylvania champion, 
who will then go to Penn State to battle for the state championship.
The playing dates are as follows: March 4; 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 15, 1 and 22.
On each of these days at least two high school teams will be in town look
ing us over. These boys will certainly like the gymnasium.. But if we want 
them to come to Carnegie, we must make them like us. At Penn State, the 
students nearly fall over themselves in their efforts to show the visitors a 
good time. We can establish ourselves high in their estimation by treat
ing them with the utmost consideration while they are here for their partic
ular round of the tournament. The time and trouble -spent in making these 
youngsters comfortable would be an investment well worth our while._______
TENNIS CLUB DONATES
MORE MAGAZINES TO HUT
The Tennis Club has added many 
lew magazines to the already large 
collection at the Hut. These subscrip
tions were made possible by a Surplus 
in last years tennis fund. Among 
them are Colliers Weekly, Forum, In
ternational Book Review, Scribners, 
Unpopular Review, and the New Stu
dent.
STUNTS BEING PLANNED
FOR 1924 SCIENCE STAG
this week.
The general committee, of which E. 
R. Patton, of the senior class, is chair
man, has begun plans for making the 
1024 Science Stag different and pos
sibly better than the good ones of pre
vious years.
DRIVE FOR STUDENT
RELIEF WILL BEGIN
(Continued From Page One.) 
mce Stag. The Senior and the Freslinan stunt committees will be appoint
d by the presidents of their classes
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
jrograms, favors, school pins, rings, 
jillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
>ld fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P-M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus ------- $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE ^DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
cent .collected goes directly to Eu^ 
rope.
We feel tihat every Tech man and 
woman should do his part to make 
the drive a successthat we may 
raise ourselves in the estimation of 
our neighbors.
The place you have been look
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
Smiles 
* bade at

BE CREAM
DAVIES and HUGHES
THENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Next To Strand Theater Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
N0 one smokes 
Melachrinos 
without liking them 
 for their quality 
instantly wins ap
preciation.
ORIGINALMEIACHRINO |
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over"
Are Scheduled to Meet Pitt, 
Grove City and Geneva 
This Week
The Plaid baskettfrs will be kept 
busy this week with three big games. 
Tonight they meet the warriors of the 
University of Pittsburgh'in what will 
surety be a lively encounter, and Friday 
night the Grove City aggregation will 
be met on the home floor. Then on 
Saturday night the representatives of 
Geneva College will travel to Pitts
burgh and attempt to beard the 
Scotchman in his den.
The Grove City encounter promises 
to be an interesting affair. The 
Grovers always turn out a team that 
is hard to beat. It will be recalled 
that the Skibos showed some of the 
best basket ball of their history last 
season when they beat Grove City af
ter that quintet had amassed a string 
of about 20 straight victories. As will 
be seen from the Watching Our Op 
ponents list, they have already made 
a good record this season, and will 
probably bring almost the whole 
school with them to root, for another 
victory over the Plaid. Reserved 
seats for this game are oh sale at 
$1.25, and the game is scheduled to 
start at 8 o'clock.
Geneva will be met on Saturday 
night and no reserved seats will be 
sold. General Admission for all out
siders will be $1.00. Student tickets, 
faculty passes, and alumni books will 
admit holders free. Such tickets are 
not good for credit on reserved seats, 
however.
The Westminster Alumni of the 
Pittsburgh district will have a big 
hullabaloo the night of February 21st. 
They are planning to have a big gettogether celebration before the game 
which their Alma Mater plays with 
the Skibos in the latters new gym. 
They have applied for the use of a 
room where they can practice some 
cheering stunts, and are going to have 
a fted in the Carnegie Commons.
Manager Sam Bittner deserves a 
great deal of credit;* for his foresight 
in arranging to have most of the 
games after examinations to be played 
in the new gym. A glance at the 
schedule will show that there are very 
few games to be played on foreign 
courts during the remainder of the
BASKET BALL GAMES WILL BE 
ONLY ACTIVITY IN NEW GYM
(Continued From Page 1) 
with some color of paint. At present 
alinnninum bronze is finding favor 
with Architect Hornbostel, but that 
may not be the color Anally decided 
upon.
An example of the advanced stage 
of some parts of tho building is tho 
mens club room, wliere the stone 
mantelpiece is ready to bo put into 
position. Sanded) Avails and a barelied ceiling, with the fireplace, al
ready give that room a cheerful and 
dignified appearance.
Tho shower rooms are rapidly ap
proaching the traditional form. But 
there is not a locker in sight. And 
no one knows what the order of busi
ness will be when the building starts 
to 'function. All questions will bo 
answered when the administration is
sues rules md regulations.
It is likely that the fioor of the 
mens gymnasium will be unvarnish
ed for tonighlis game. Mr. L. H. Mil
ler, supervisor of equipment, had 
planed to liave a gang of laborers 
do a hasty .swabbing: of the broad ex
panse. But the painters objected) to 
such a trespass on their rights. Even 
the introduction of a spraying ma
chine failed to satisfy them. And 
since there were not enough painters 
to complete the job in such a short 
time the blocks had to remain unnature!.
DRAMAT PLEBES IN FIRST PLAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
Rachel, Ann Laurea. .Frances Davis
Mordecai, Russel Spindler..............
............................. Joseph E. Gessncr
Haman, Robert Alderdice..............
..................................... Harold Minor
Hydaspes, Emerson Hall .................
................................... Allen Robinson
Aliasuerus, Leon Ford........................
..............Ludlow Maui?/ Tuokerman
The Ghost of Thares, John Con
way ....................... Shang-Yuen Yui
Captain of the Guard..Saul Schwartz 
Zeresh, Norma Knight. . Edpa Shugait
Asaph, Joseph Wadsworth..............
........................... Edward1 Downes
A Dancer .................. Dorothy Cohen
Captive Judean Maidens ..................
Helen Clagett, Caroline Marsh. 
Martha Townsend, De'la Lauffer, 
Hazel Brown and Helen Snively. 
The scenes are laid in the palace 
of Anasuerus, King of Persia.
Staged by Chester Wallace. 
Assisted by Janet Perry.
Stage Managers .................................
William Dlskey, Maragaret Eckhardl
Properties .............................................
........John onway, Dorothy Cohen
Lighting .................................................
..Russell Spindler, Edward Downes
Costumes ..................... Allene Gregory
Settings ................ Charlotte Shuman
Music ...................................................
Verner Halden, Merrill Hollingshead
Director of Dances ..........................
.....................Madam Susan Karpova
Costumiere .................... Evelyn Cohen
Art Director..........Alexander Wyckoff
Technical Director........Bert Sabourin
This production is the work of the 
First Year Scudents.
BASKET BALL DANCE
TO BE HELD IN UNION
There will be a basket ball dance 
in the Carnegie Union after the Pitt 
game tonight, it has boon announced 
by the Office of the Graduate Man 
ager. Owing to tho large numjber of 
outsiders who will undoubtedly be 
present to witness tho clash, it has 
been thought necessary to limit the 
attendance at the dance to students 
of University of Pittsburgh and Car
negie Tech. One person or each cou
ple must show a registration card 
from either school to the doorkeeper 
before they will be admitted to tho 
Union. The price will be $1.25.
PROAMNENT ATHLETES 
IN 1924 PENN RELAYS
Pennsylvanias Thirtieth Annual Re
lay Race Carnival will this year be 
finer than ever. Cambridge Univer
sity, England, has sent word that they 
will be represented. W. R. Bristowe, 
the captain of tho Cambridge team 
wrote that as yet they had not decid
ed on what distance they will choose. 
It is probable) however, that they will 
decide on the two mile distance as 
they have in college, Mountain, ex 
champion half miler of England; and 
Lowe, both of whom have run the half 
mile in 1 minute 55 seconds. It is 
also said that Griffiths who won tho 
British half mile championship last 
July is at Cambridge. Cambridgo 
will compete in one of the medley re
lay championships on Friday, April 
25th, the first day of the meeting. 
This means that their great athlete, 
Abrahams, will accompany the team. 
Abrahams has dono !). 4-5 seconds for 
100 yards, 21 4-5 seconds for the 220 
yards, 45) 3-5 second for the quarter 
and 23 feet 8 3-5 inches for the broad 
jump. He won three events in the 
Cambridge-Oxford, Harvard-Yale meet 
last July and is one of the greatest 
track athletes in tho world. Pennsyl
vania has also invited Eric Liddell, 
of Edinboro University, Scotland, the 
British 100 yards and 220 yards cham
pion to compete at the Carnival. Lid
dell holds the British records for the 
above distance at 9 7-10 seconds and 
21 3-5 seconds respectively. If he ac
cepts, his meeting with the best or 
our college sprinters will be of tho 
keenest interest.
The University of Havana, Cuba; is 
sending up a team t'o tho Carnival. 
Cuba Is not strong in track athlotics 
and they will be put In a class race 
Occidental Collego of the Pad lie 
Slope, has also stated that they will 
have a team in tho quarter, half and 
one mile relay championships. Occi
dental has a very strong squad of 
sprintors and will bo hard to boat In 
those events. Canada will also bo 
represented. Thus with Canada, 
Cuba, England and colleges as far 
west as California represented, half 
of the globe will bo intorosbed in tho 
rosults of Pennsylvania's groat Car
nival. It is probable also that Aus
tralia will send a eollogo tcam.Jlioso 
men being on their way to tho Olym
pic g#mos In Paris next July.
The Carnival will bo of especial Im
portance this year, bocauso of tho 
keen competition for tho Olympic 
team that will reprosont this country 
in Paris this year. The Rolay Car
nival will give tho coTlogo athletes of 
tho entire country a chance to show 
their ability and the results will no 
doubt have a bearing on the ultimate 
decision of the Olympic Committoo in 
choosing the American team.
PENN STATE CUBS 
WALLOP PLEBES
Despite Great improvement 
in Floor Work, Fresh
men Lose
ROUND TABLE TO MEET
MONDAY. FEBRUARY 11
Saturday morning the Plebo basket 
ball team journeyed to State College i 
and lost to the Penn State Freshles ) 
by the score 55-17. The playing of j 
tho Nittany Cubs, was equal to that 
of many varsity college teams and al- j 
though the Pebes played a good j 
game they were outplayed and out-1 
classed. I-Iorner, former forward on 
the Passaic Wonder team, led in the 
scoring, dropping in seven goals from 
all angles and two free throws. The 
Nittany Cubs have not scrimmaged 
against the varsity due to the fact that 
they would probably boat them.
Lynch at forward, led the scoring 
for the Plebes by dropping in four 
difficult shots. The Plebe team 
showed a decided improvement in 
their floor work and can bo expected 
to give the Pitt Freshles a hard gamo 
on Tuesday night.
Managers of all Carnogie Tech 
teams are requested to note that there 
will boNmother Round Table meeting 
in the oillce of tho Graduate Manager 
on tho afternoon of Monday, Febru
ary 11. This will ho the socond moot
ing of the year for the managers and 
will be called to order at *1:80. Buddy 
Overoiul has announced that hereaf
ter a meeting of tho managers will be 
hold once a month, and on tho day 
previous to tho mooting of the Ath
letic Council, which convenes the sec
ond Tuesday of each month.
GAMBOL OF GUILDS TO
HAVE NOVEL SETTING
(Continued From Page One.) 
pie, which Includes four hours of 
dancing, with good music and re
freshments. Tho day after the dahce 
is a holiday, so that everyone can for
get about lessons and have a good 
time.
ASSEMBLY WILL TAKE
PLACE IN NEW GYM
(Continued From Page One.) 
ball mentor for an occasion that is 
not especially concerned with ath
letics. That the president made a 
ten-strike in securing Coach Steffen 
cannot be denied. Incidentally, it has 
leaked out that the invitation was ex
tended upon President Bakers. own 
initiation, without any preliminary 
consultation with the Athletic Asso
ciation officers.
The subject of Coach Steffens ad
dress has not yet been announced, as 
he has been given a free rein to talk 
upon any subject he desires. Wallys 
experience in the capacity, of Alder
man and Judge renders him an able 
speaker on many topics. What the 
subject is to be, however, is not im
portant; we all know that Wally is 
as good a speaker as he is a foot
ball coach, and his talk is sure to 
be good.
In addition to Wally, another at
traction will be in the form of the 
Tuskegee Singers, who will render a 
program of plantation melodies, Ne
gro folk songs, and dialect readings. 
These men come from the Tuskegee 
Institute, Alabama, founded by Booker 
T. Washington and are famous 
throughout both the North and the 
South for their dollgtful entertain
ment.
Miss Margaret Quayle, .who has 
been in charge of work In CzeckoSlovakla for several years, will give 
a short review of the Student Situa
tion abroad. She treats the subject 
in a popular way, has addressed large 
numbers of big studient audiences 
during the past; year and makes a 
strong appeal to both men and wornWatching Our Opponents
Pitt 33Vanderbilt 31.
Pitt 32Amherst 21.
Pitt 31Geneva 22.
Pitt 35Allegheny 30.
Pitt 45Bethany 33.
Pitt 23West Virginia 25.
Pitt 29W. and J. 10.
Pitt 2SGrove City 2D.
Grove City 42Ambersi 23.
Grove >City 34Waynosburg 13.
Grovo City 31Thiel 21.
Grove City 22Genova 19.
Grove City 3Westminster 28.
Grovo City 2GWest. Virginia 30.
Grovo City 35W. and J. 23.
W. and J. 33Geneva 22.
| W. and J. 33Bethany 13.
W. and J. 32Genova 28.
W. and J. 24Bethany IS.
W. and J. 19Pitt 29.
W. and J. 23Grovo City 35.
Geneva 2GAmhorst 20.
Geneva 2SThiol 29.
Genova 22Pitt 31.
Geneva 22AV. and J. 33.
Genovn 19Grovo City 22.
Genova 28W. and J. 32.
Geneva 23Allegheny 25.
Genova 29Westminster 20.
Alloghony 33Amherst 19.
Allegheny 80Pitt 35.
Alloghony 28Wost Virginia <17.
Allegheny 21Wost Virginia 31.
Alloghony 25Geneva 23.
Westminster 23Waynosburg 22.
Westminster 25Bethany 15.
Westminster 2(1...Geneva 29.
Westminster 21Thiol 24.
Penn Stato (II.Juniata 13.
Penn State 58Susquehanna 13.
Penn Stato '17Carnogie Tooli 25.
Penn State 23Gettysburg 19.
Penn Stato 22Penn 27.
W. Va. Wesleyan *14Broaddus H.
W. Va. Wesleyan 27Fairmont 
Collego 9.
W. Va. Wosloyan 28 Bethany :i2.
Catholic 27-Buoknoll 20.
VOTE TAKEN ON BOK
PEACE PLAN TODAY
(Continued From Pago One.) 
and President I-Iardlng In February, 
1023.
II. That without becoming a mem
ber of tho League of Nations as at 
prosen 1. constituted, tho United States 
shall 'offer to ex Land Its present co
operation with tho League and pat* 
ticipato in tho work of the Ltaague 
as a body of mutual counsel undei 
conditions which
1. Substitute moral force and pub
lic opinion for tho military and eco
nomic force originally Implied 111 
Articles X and XVI.
2. Safeguard the Monroe Doctrine,
3. Accept tlio fact that the United 
Slates will assume no obligations un
der tho Treaty of Versailles except by 
Act of Congress.
1. Propose that membership in the 
League should be opened to all na
tions.
5 Provide for the continuing de
velopment of international law.
SCHEDULE FOR GIRLS 
BASKETBALL SHIFTED
! RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL?
Why do you weep, my dear little 
child?
Asked the kind old preacher.
Oh the flowers, sir, they are wild," 
Replied the timid creature.
In order to avoid too many athletic 
activities at one time, the girls bas
ket ball schedule has been moved for
ward two weeks. This will start tho 
games on February 25 instead of 
March 10.
There is a rumor around the 
campus that the Carnogie girls are go
ing to play tho Pitt girls class teams 
soon. The prospective date seems to 
bo February 10. It is hoped by tho 
Carnegie students that this rumor is 
true:
New basket ball schedule:
February 25Freshman vs. Sopho
more.
February 2GJunior vs Senior.
February 2SArts vs. Freshman.
March 3Sophomore vs. Senior.
March 4Junior vs. Arts.
March 6Senior vs. Freshman.
March 10Sophomoro vs. Arts.
March 11Froshman vs. Junior.
March 13Arts vs. Senior.
March 20Junior vs. Sophomoro.
STAGE IS SET FOR
CHINESE FESTIVAL
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Rosslyn Doylo. Charles Schlossinger 
and Ida Kraus are stage managers, 
and tho scenery Is being dono by 
Kevin OCallalan.
The Arts Ball will bo the most 
gorgeous ball In tlio history of Car
negie.
In order that everyone on the 
campus may participate In tho fun 
of tho ball If not directly In tho ball 
Itself, a Post-Arts Ball danco has 
boon planned on Saturday, February 
9. The decorations will bo allowed 
to remain for this danco, and tho 
Garbor-Davls Orchestra will ronialn 
to furnish tho music. Tho prloo for 
tho post-ball danco wllli bo $3.00 per 
couple, tho excellency of tho music 
accounting for the slight difference 
from tho usual price, Dave Garber, 
chairman of tho Post-Dali danco, has 
arranged! to provide' extra dancing 
space for that night, and Chinese pro
grams will add to the attractiveness 
of tho Post-Ball Danco.
TARTAN STAFF WILL MAKE
TWO INSPECTION TRIP8
(Continued From lago Ono.) 
tho dlfforent school and nows will 
thus bo authoritative.
Tomorrow at one o'clock all staff 
members, oqulppod with two car 
chocks, aro asked to report at tho Tar
tan olllco, from whoro they will jour
ney downtown to tho Western Nows* 
paper Union, to seo how tho Tartan Is 
panted.
DO YOU KNOW IN BARCELONA?
NEWMAN CLU3 WILL HOLD
SECOND DANCE FRIDAY
The Newman Club will hold its 
second dance of the year at the Duquesne Council Mouse, Fifth and 
Bellefield, on Friday night. An or
chestra that has proved popular at 
many student affairs has been en
gaged. * ,
The committee in charge has laid 
its plans with the intention of mak
ing the occasion gay and informal. 
Members and friends of the .'club are 
invited.
Two dollars is the assessment, and 
the hours are nine to one.
VESPERS TO BEGIN AT
STUDENT HOUSE SUNDAY
The first of a series of Student Ves
pers to be conducted at the Lutheran 
Student House, will be held Sunday 
evening, February 10th. The topic: 
The Biblewhat about It?" will be 
presented by Rev. A, Herlng and Is to 
be followed by an open- discussion, 
Free luncheon will be served to all 
present at 5:30 and the meeting be
gins at (5 p. m. Informal discussion 
about (5:30 p. m. Both men and wo
men students are Invited.
The regular meeting of the Luther
an Student Club has boon sot for Feb
ruary 13, 8:30 p. m. at the house.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artista and Engineers Matoralo, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
OJSbQ
the master dtmvingpencil'
D (inio n
Mow conic you're (idling along so well with IrofcH.Hor itobcrts?He told iiH tlihi morning tluit that last effort of your was a master ?drawing.
Pythias
It couldn't have been otherwise. Didn't I use the master drawing pencil'/"
17 cudsall dealer
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1880. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jos. P. Fisher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 05B4
FINAL SCHEDULE 
FOR RIFLE TEAM
Will Take Part in N. R. A. 
Intercollegiate 
Matches
Tho schedule of tho Carnegie Rlfto 
Team for tho season 102*1 has finally 
boon completed. Although tho team 
was lato in getting started this year, 
tho first match being delayed until 
tho week ending January 12. a com
plete though somewhat unbalanced! 
schedule has boon arranged. As now 
arranged the matches for tlio year 
are:
Gettysburg CollegeFebruary 1G.
Colgate UniversityMarch 1.
Massachusetts Institute of Technol
ogyN. R. A.
Drexel InstituteMarch 15.
University of CaliforniaMarch IE.
George Washington University 
April 19.
The Caruegie Rifle Team lias also 
enrolled in tho N. R. A. Intercolle
giate Championship Matches, tho clas
sic of the college liflo teams of the 
nation, and through this series E 
matches will compoto with the fore
most eollogo rifle teams of the coun
try. The Intercollegiate series con
sists of throo stages of one weolc each 
to bo shot off botwoon February 2$ 
and March 15. Tho prosont arrangomont is:
First stagoProno and sitting 
March 1.
'Second stageProno and kneeling 
March 8,
Third stagoProno and standing 
March 15.
In foriiior yoars tho Carnogie Rifle 
Team has dono unusually well in thin 
contest and anticipates ovon greater 
success this season.
There are several departures irons 
tho usual routine of telegraphic 
matches in tho schodulo of 192*1. Tlio 
flrst was in tho match with Tech 
old rival, Pitt. This match was shot 
on Pitts rango at tho Armory on Jan
uary 15 and was tho first shouldor-toshoulder match of the Carnogie squntii 
Tho match was won by a narrow mar
gin and arrangements wore boguri for 
a return match on Carnoglos rango 
on tlio top floor of Arts Building. TUo 
date for tho return matoh has not 
boon doeldod upon as yot but Ou> 
match will probably ho hold shortly.
Tho socond unusual point, of tho 
schodulo Is tho triangular match be
tween tho University of California, 
the Droxol Institute and Carnegie on 
the week ending March 15. Thin t 
an ontlroly now venture on the part 
of Carnegie as heretofore her rllle; 
team has never tried to defeat mom 
than ono loam at a time.
Tho core with tho Massachusetts 
Institute of Toohnology Is to bo tho 
score for tho prone positions of tho 
Intercollegiate contest. Thin In un
fortunate bill; could not bo avoided an 
It was Impossible to lit the scheduler 
of tho two schools together.
Tho Oarnoglo Rllle Team hint ottU 
Itself a pretty big piece of calco andl 
Is attempting to make ltaoN! at home. 
Tho greatest need of the tonm at pres
ent In more material to work with. 
If you can shoot, or If you think you; 
can, oomb out. The team prides fu
sel f on having the best shots in l.ht> 
school but II! you can call Its bluff - 
atta boy I Tho team needs more mom 
not so much for this year but for nexli 
season and tho season aftor. If you 
Hko hard work with little oxcltoirma* 
and little reward stop up to tho rangw 
and its an ovon bet you'll find that 
gallery shooting has a thrill all itts
Stretching- Your 
Income
Only through careful, sys
tematic and efficient handling 
of your funds can you make 
the most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride In promot
ing the financial welfare of 
our customers and are ever 
ready to assist in the solu
tion of their financial problems.
Your savings and checkin0 
accounts, even though small, 
are welcome here.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbuft-dh, Pa.
Compliments
or
&kibo Inn
Minister (to flapper): Would you
like to Join us in the new missionary 
movement?
Flapper: I'm crazy to try it. Is It
anything like the fox trot?
. Red and Black.
REMEMBER MOONLIGHT MAID7
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1924
A 0 mm wm  gar m W W If f A1
&&LUMNI P&GEif
| DO YOU KNOW? j
That you aro Huppoued la register 
toduy?
That tho Junior Prom wan a bowl
ing .BXX:T.1
That Pitt play Carnegie tonight In 
tlho now gyni?
That tlio H. O. T. C. In poUfilonliig 
tho government for money with which 
to buy a now typo of uniform, which 
will ho very nappy?
"Uftmt the Pont Ball comos off Satur
day, February 9, and that, tho orchonUru and (icbnory will bo tlio name an 
that for tho Aria Ball?
That everyone niuiit proiient a row.Oitrallon card at all dance on tho 
cainpua?
Alumni Get Passes 
For Arts Ball Now
Program for Annual Event 
Best in Many Years
TALENTED SINGER 
IN DESIGN SCHOOL
Juliette Bartletti Proves a 
Great Find in the Realm 
of Music
Those graduates of tho Collego of 
TFluo Arts who wish to attend tho An
nual Ball should get their passes im
mediately. The ball, which will bo 
held Friday night, Ferbuary eighth, 
promises to exceed those of. former 
years In every respect, and that Is 
promising a lot, as you all Know who 
littve over attended them. This year 
it Is talcing the form of the Feast of 
The Lanterns, a holiday which was 
<ubnerved by the Chinese In Modlaoval 
times. On this day they celebrated by 
General Illumination having myriad 
-al lanterns reproHentlng all imagin
able objects.
Tho costumes will include those of 
asods, princes, princesses, slave, solillorn, and others typical of Chinese 
coBtumes of tho Fourteenth Century. 
Costumes of Europe and modern paJam'll outfits aro positively prohibited. 
The program _ lasts from 5) to 4 and 
coos like this: Nino to twelve
Dancing. At twelve tho grand march 
will form and load to tho little thea
ter for some snappy entertainment. 
Supper will ho served from ono to 
three, and dancing will continue un
til four. Sounds like tho days when 
you woro back In tho schooB, doesn't 
it.
You can have all tills and more by 
sending a chock for four dollars to 
Secretary Earl Wheeler Collego of 
Fine Arts, made payable to J, S. Molleour.
PaiiHQf will be mailed promptly up
on the receipt of your chock, provided 
yon are a paid-up member ol! the 
Alumni Association,
There's only-one thing that keeps 
a college professor's shoulders 
straight and Ills step firm, just one 
chance that keeps him at his work,1 
tliaij Is the chance that sometime, 
somewhere In his class rooms ho 
will find a genius.
Ever so often in tho history of a 
school a person of rare ability Is dincovered a great novelist or psycholog
ist, historian or musician Is payment 
for. years of hard labor.
.Juliette Bartletti is one of those 
rare discoveries. A lltiilo over two 
years ago the Music Department or 
the College of Fine Arts noticed her 
voice. It Is a wonderful lyric sopra
no of groat sweetness and strength.
It appears that Mftas Bartletti stud
ied under her father, who is also a 
singer, before coming to Carnegie. 
She came first to night school work
ing dlurlng tlio day at the Westinghouse.
Her health broke under the strain, 
however, and liwo year ago she gave 
up her 'employment and eroli^l in 
the day school.
] Since then her work has been very 
pleasing. Last year she took the 
leading role in "Eileen," a light opera 
produced byi tho K. of C. Opera Com
pany. During Campus Week she 
sang ono of the songs from the opera 
at tho Carnegie Music Hall, ono of 
the foatures of tho anudnl student 
show.
Instructors think that her voice is 
exceptional and that her progress has 
unlimited scope.
MENS JUNIOR PROM
HELD AT 8CHENLEY
(Continued From Pago l) 
jilmply greaii." Pain no decorated the 
lmll room and foyer.
The hour woro from i) p. m. to 2 
u. in., with tho grand march at 1.1:5)0 
p. in., Junt before supper wns served 
in the dlnin.Ki room at midnight.
Undoubtedly supper was the oooiv 
,idim for tho big lilt of the evening 
wlien the women received tliolr fav
ors In a most Ingenious manner. Her|lert Iolonlo of tho Arls Collego, 
<lroMi)od an a waiter, mounted n spec
ial platform built in the dining room 
wnd delivered' ono of hlu diameter* 
(utile little speeches and then dis
tributed the favors. The women wore 
ilollghtod with the loal'hor puraOB 
with the Carnogie Tech seal. The 
class of 1025 'feel that the success 
'Of their Prom is a distinctly worth
while mark In the claas history.
OR. PARMALEE TO
SPEAK HERE SOON
(Continued From Page One.) 
of tho British Ministry of Informa
tion.
Dr. Baker has announced that the 
lecture by Dr. Parmalee is open to 
tho public and no cards of admission 
will be required.
HARTFORD CLAN
The Hartford members of the Con
necticut Carnegie Clan met Wednpu* 
day evening, January ''A, at the Universlty Club, for dinner and a discus
sion of "old time." Tho follow 
played over many a football game and 
took part in one of those spectacular 
"room tacking parties again, during 
tho course of the evening. Especially 
was "Dutch Hemmann in a reminis
cent mood. Dutch"', by tho way, in
formed the members that he Is tho 
proud father . of a ttfo month old 
daughter.
Tho following men answered roll 
call: C. Hemmann, U. Prouty, A. S.
Nelson, J. C. Fogg, D. A. Nemser, A. 
E. Rutherford, J. Gelman, N. Tremonlo, E. W, Arnold, II. J. Solomon 
and.W. H. Harrington.
These dinner meeting are scheduled 
once a month. The time and place of 
future meetings and any otherInfor
mation desired may be secured from 
D. A. Nemser, 450 Washington street, 
Hartford, Connecticut.
GRADS OF NEW 
COURSE SECURE 
GOOD POSITIONS
I THE TELESCOPE | ^f/oHOTTOWNS i D0 TOU RECALL? ]
Machine Production Men 
Much in Demand Through
out All Parts of Country as 
Shown by Latest Survey
MESSAGE FOR ALUMNI 
IN FEBRUARY ALUMNUS
The February issue of tho Carnegie 
Alumnus contains some information 
which is of paramount importance to 
all Carnegie Alumni. Evory alumnu 
who falls to receive this mossago and 
who falls to act accordingly .Is S. O. L.
Some yoars ago' a project was be
gun hero which was for the Cood of 
Carnogie. It failed. Sovofal other 
attempts to put over tho project were 
also unsuccessful, Tlio Carnogio Tar
tan, aided by tho Student Council, 
then took charge of the project, which 
is now well under way.
The alumni are being given the 
tlnit opportunity to take part in this 
undertaking. Every alumnu should 
send in his answor at onco to A. E. 
Krogli, Alumni Editor, Carnegie Tar
tan,
DO YOU KNOW "IN BARCELONA*'?
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The Philadelphia Carnegie Clamheld 
a dinner and business meeting at the 
Arcadia Cafe on Friday evening, Jan
uary 25.
Those present included Mr. and Mr. 
Charles, Mr. and Mrs. Exline, Mr. and 
Mrs. Coldren, tlio Misses Eloise Mc
Mahan, Mary Rhoades, Helen Macrum, 
Catherine Hayes, Margaret Nelson, 
Dorothea Steinmacher, Marie Fredette, and Messrs. Davis, street, 
Jones, Swindell, Burke, Campbell, 
Ward and Giles.
Brief talks were given by several 
now members, whose initiation" is 
scheduled to take place at the next 
meeting.
A short business meeting followed, 
and the remainder of tho evening was 
given over to dancing,
The office of secretary of tho Phil
adelphia Carnegie Clan is now held 
by Marie Fredette, 1007 Eleventh ave
nue, Moore, Pa.
---------------
EAST ATTRACTS MANY
M.M.C.C. Graduate Opens 
Up Science Laboratory
Margarelt Griffin, a graduate of the 
Margaret Morison Department of 1.921, 
lias recently opened up a laboratory 
with Dr. Hoffman In lie Jenkln Ar
cade. For sovoral years Miss Or 1CJ fin worked with Dr. Taylor in the 
Biochemistry Laboratories of tho West 
Penn Hospital, When Dr. Taylor 
loft tho hospital Dr. Hoffman, tho 
bond pilthologlst there, decided to 
open up a laboratory and aked Miss 
Griffin to Join him. The laboratory 
Is primarily a , bacteriological one, 
whore they examine blood sin oars, do 
blooidl chomhitrles and make vaccines. 
M!ls Griffin 1 the' (Irst grndunto of 
tho department / to start up such a 
laboratory and her work has boon 
very successful.
WHEN THE 8HEET3 MADE 
UP BY GIRLS PRINTERS 
HAVE TO COMB THEIR CURLS
(Continued From Pago One.)
I lie fact that' nobody had come but 
the usual Tartan bus boy.
"Whore's tho girls? growled u 
surly old llno-e-typer.
*'j Is, ha, you must ha ve yoinr little 
joko,M ho said, "I didnt say nothin' 
about no glrhi. I said the brains of 
the' staff! book me over."
A. gray headed member of the 
group, with a saintly countenance 
thereupon Indulged in a little genteel 
printer's language, language that had 
a meaning all Its own, and that 
brought a, look of awe to the face of 
Joe, tho printers devil.
And) at the conclusion tho disap'- 
poiuted and heart-broken old man 
smeared a large quantity of ink on 
his face, and glared fiercely about,, 
daring the rest of the chagrined staff 
to make comment.
No ono didi!
REMEMBER "MOONLIGHT MAID?
DRAMA DEPT. PAGEANT 
AT WESTINGHOUSE CO.
Everybody
all set for the
Formal Opening
Week February 4th to 9 th 
Inclusive
Surprises Galore!
Souvenirs every night!
Cabaret in the environment of a different coun
try each night!
Real snappy 9-pieee Orche.st.rn!
Two large roomy dance floors!
Completely remodeled and refinished!
Classy group of entertainers headed by O. B. 
Newman, Jessie Cringle and Betty Marvyn.
Music Box
5921 PENN AVENUE 
_____
An interesting pageant entitled In
dustrie Armada to Spain was given 
by the Carnegie Drama Department 
at the Westlnghouse Electric and 
Manufacturing Company recently, 
when a largo shipment of electrical 
apparatus was sent to Spain for out
fitting a very- large stool rolling mill 
that has recently been completed 
there.
The Westlnghouse Company wished 
to make tliolr first large shipment to 
Spain into a form of ceremony, de
picting tho shipment as sort of an in
dustrial armada to that country. Act
ing on this suggestion the drama de
partment produced a very novel 
pageant which was staged Just before 
the department of the. loaded train. 
Immediately following the pageant, 
Helen' Clagett, representing the part 
of Queen Electricity, christened the 
shipment as the American Industrial 
Armada to Spain as it slowly pulled 
out of the yards bound for its long 
Journey.
The members of the cast as seen in 
the pageant .were:
Ben WeinblettIndustry.
Helen ClagettElectricity."
Russell SpindlerStandard Bearer.
Ellen LoweAmerica.
Dorothey SchellSpain.
Wilson DickyStandard Bearer.
TARTANS WILL PLAY AT
SOPHOMORE BANQUET
(Continued From Page One.) 
scribe it as spicy if he were not 
afraid that his meaning might bo 
misconstrued.
Hardie Albright and his lieutenants 
have been doing some faithful work 
on tho homo talent feature of the 
entertainment. When the reporter 
tried to noso into a rehearsal he was 
told take tho air. So ho cannot 
describe the act, but judglmr from 
Iho treatment he received he would 
Infer that It must bo rotten.
Sophomores who desire tickets 
should see their section leaders. .Enoh 
section has boon assigned tickets 
equal to the number of Its members. 
Tho committee would like to have 
purchasers act promptly in order to 
know as soon ay possible how many 
to expect. The price is ?2.50, and 
the scene is the Sclieuley.
YEA CARNEGIE! PEP RALLY!
(Continued From Pa re One.) 
stunts, and a short snake dance on 
Woodlawn avenue featured with red 
fire, etc., will make up the program. 
Everything is to .be over by 7:15 in 
plenty of time to get everyone in the 
gym for the prelim game and informal 
opening.
The following record will be of in
terest to students and alumni alike in | 
that it indicate the hearty approval 
given by employers to one of the new 
four-year-courses leading to a degree 
in the College of Industries.
This list of positions obtained by 
the graduating class of the Machin
ery Production Department lor the 
year 1923, is noteworthy for the di
versity of types of ilrmB and for tho 
size of the starting salaries. When 
it is then further appreciated that 
many of these men have made rather 
extraordinary and impressive strides 
during the first six months of their 
employment the record) of the de
partment is all the more striking.
Among these names are those of a 
group of men who were signed by. 
one corporation for a three-year en
gineering apprentice course, open 
heretofore only to graduates of engi
neering courses^- for which the yearly 
salaries promised- were $1,200.-00, 
$1,50,0.00, .$1,800.00 respectively. After 
two months experience with the firm, 
the corporation jumped these men a 
whole year in their salaries and train
ing, thus demonstrating the practical 
value of the four-year's shop train
ing background given at 'Carnegie. At 
the end of the first six months sev
eral of the men have been raised to 
the $1,800.00 rate which they bad ex
pected at the end of two years.
The names of the men in, question 
have (been marked with an asterisk. 
The list follows:
W. A. Anderson, Columbia Steel 
ahd Shafting Companysales work.
C. W. Anderson, Bell Telephone 
Companystallstical work.
J. L. Bahr, DwighL P. Robinson, 
contracting engineertiest work.
H. C. Bamberger, Duquesne Light 
Com.p/my, Colfax plantmamteanance 
work.
E. F. Beach, Jones & Laughlin 
Steel Companyproduction work.
B. Blever, Phillips-Jones Corpora 
tioii, Pottsvllle, Pa.-production work.
*A. A. Brogo, American Steel Foun
dries, Alliance plantengineering ap
prentice. .
]>. I-I, Cookson, West Penn Power 
Company, Connellsvillo, Papower
plant work.
F. 1-T. Cornelius, Standard Oil .Com
pany of Now Yorkforeign o sales 
work.
Mr. Cornelius has given up his po
sition with the Standard OH Com
pany, since it ontailod going to 
China. I-Ilo then started in the plant 
of! the Detroit Auto Spring Company 
at a kalary of $2,400. a year, but was 
at the end of four months raised to 
$.'{,000.00 and on the completion of 
his lxl.li month with tho company ho 
\vas made Work Manager at a. salary 
of $1,800.00 ptr annum.
Eastman, 10, W., the Gould Pump 
Company, Sionoca Falls, N. Y., pro
duction work.
Elchorn, A. E., tho Singer Sewing 
Slachlne Company, Ellzabpth, N. Y., 
production work.
Mr. Elchorn began work in the 
Elizabeth plant of the Singer Com
pany upon graduation. He was put 
into production work at a starting 
salary of $1,800.00 per year. At tho 
end of six months lie was made As
sistant to the Production Manager 
and bis salary increased to $2,700.00.
N. D. Fox, Fero-Brick Company, 
WatsontoWn, Pa., production work.
E. P. Geary, Jones and Laughlin 
Steel Company, production work.
H. C. Godden, White Motor Com
pany, Cleveland1, Ohio, production 
work.
B. N. Greenlaw, American Radia
tor Company. Bayonne, N. J., plant, 
production work.
*P. A. Herreran, American Steel 
Foundaries, Granite City plant, engi
neering apprentice
A. C. Irwin, Carnegie Athletic As
sociation, assistant graduate man
ager.
B. J. Lynch, P. R. R. Altoona 
shops.
M. G. MeCarney, Art Metal Con
struction Company, Jamestown. N. 
Y., sales work.
H. W. McCaw, Arnold Boys School, 
teacher.
R. Marshall, Jas. 1-1. Matthews Com
pany, Pittsburgh, sales work.
L. J. Morns, Linde Air Products 
Company, Now York, N. Y., field 
service work.
E. W. Ortiolf, Bell Telephone Com
pany, statistical work.
'P. S. Hopplior, Chesapeake and Po 
tomac Tolephono Company, Washing
ton, Pa., advertising work.
*lfl. V. Roberts, American Steol 
Foundries, Thurlow plant, engineer 
apprentice.
A. Ross, American Steol Foundries, 
St. Louis plant, engineer apprentice.
Win. Schemer, Truscon Steel Com
pany. Youngstown, Ohio, sales work.
H. D. Sonneuian, Packard Motor 
Company. Pittsburgh, sales work.
D. Wilhelm. West Penn Power 
Company, Conuellsville, Pa., p.ower 
plant work.
D. H. Williams, oil production, 
Streater, 111.
Undoubtedly many of the other 
even have nroaressed rapidly in botb 
salaries and positions, but we have 
jo actual knowledge of these promoIn a recent issue of Scribner's Mag
azine', Mr. Wm. Lyons Phelps delivers 
himself of the following statement:
When I was a Freshman at Yale, 
I remember a literary decision handed 
down one day from the professor's 
desk, and I not o^ily remember it, but 
remember the speakers facial expres
sion, and the tone of his voice. While 
I am under no illusion as to profes
sorial influence on students, there is 
one commonly heard statement that 
I KNOW TO BE FALSE. (Namely) 
Nobody remembers what he was 
taught in the classroom. The speak
er then generally proceeds to empha
size the strikingly original thought 
that what students learn at college 
they learn from one another. Now, 
while I was and am devoted to my 
classmates, I learned more from my 
teachers; and so far from having for
gotten everything they said, I can re
member all sorts of obiter dicta, ver
batim et literatim. If the faculty say
ings vanish on their utterance, why is 
it that at class reunions, bald and fat 
alumni talk so much and so often 
about the hours in the class room, 
and what the Prof did on such and 
such an occasion. Perhaps no per
son is remembered longer than the 
teacher. Some are hated, some are 
despised, some are ridiculed and pa
rodied, BUT FEW ARE FORGOT
TEN.
It would be of interest to the under
graduates of Carnegie to know if our 
Alumni feel in a similar way about 
these matters. Is the writer right or 
is he wrong? SPEAK UP.
Have you turned in your quarter to 
the Haaren Memorial fund as -yet?
Can you still sing Dear Old Tech.
Read the February Alumnus.
Wake up ALUMNI. Two weeks ago 
we ran a letter concerning the use
fulness of the clans. IS IT POSSIBLE 
THAT NOT ONE OF THE 1700 Clan 
members disagree?
Expect Alumni to Turn Out 
Enmasse for Home Town 
Concerts
OLD GRADS WILL SEE 
FIRST GAME IN GYM
Are you going to see your old class
mates there? Sure! All Alumni, who 
possibly can, will be on hand to see 
the first basket ball game to be played 
in the new gymnasium.
Tho opening of the new gym will 
be the realization of fond dreams of 
your own college days.
Remember, when you used to hear 
reports that the Carnegie Foundation 
was planning to set aside a sum of 
money to erect a gymnasium. Then 
came such news as a new site. must 
be chosen, plans must be altered, and 
many similar reports. Well, it seems 
that those preliminary delays are nec
essary when big projects are put over.
Now these are all over and the 
dream of many Techites is being real' 
izod, The floor is finished, the seats 
are in place, and the team; well, you 
can see for yourself when you come 
out with tho crowd tonight,
All* available reserved seats have 
been disposed of and the general ad
mission is going fast. A record crowd 
is expected.
RECALL ANY OLD PLACE AT ALL?
FEIN AND KLEIN
DISCUSS THE ENFORCEMENT 
OF PLEBE REGULATIONS
(Continued From Page One.) 
so hard after my Physics exam, when 
lie passes the Senior Fence, that he 
got scared and took off Ills hat, Id of 
clean forgotten that there was such a 
rule to that effect!
"Well, yo.ui cant blame the Plebe 
for that, Max, I butts -in, if you 
don't enforce the rules they wont live 
up to them and, moreover, they fell 
kind of foolish keeping rules when no
body tries to make them. If you see 
a Plebe conscientiously living up to 
the rules, you take such a superior at
titude and try to impress him that he 
is a darned fool in doing so and that 
if he had any guts at all lie would 
break it right off. And whats more, 
would yc-u pledge a Plebe to your frat 
if you thought lie would buckle down 
under regulations, be a perfect good 
little boy, and never try to raise Cain 
at all? Of course not.
I see your point, Fein, theres not 
any doubting that, but just as the 
Plebes are there to break regulations, 
the Sophs are there to enforce them 
which they got to do if regulations 
are going to be any good. When the 
Plebes come here Doc Baker makes 
them welcome, Dean Mott tells them 
. to study if they dont want to get 
kicked out, and Tarbell tells them to 
pay all bills to A. N. I-Ieyl promptly 
or get likewise. After this true ad
vice or warning which they dont 
usually take, the President of "the 
Student Council, or whoever else is 
not a week late for registration, ex
plains Plebe regulations to them and 
says theyre for their own good, just 
like' discipline in the army. The 
Plebes take it all in and spend the 
rest, of the day putting up bleachers 
and yelling Tech, which aim right 
because It should be Carnegie.
"For two weeks tho.Plebes soak up 
discipline, and then .the Sophs get 
tired of acting like policemen, and the 
Plebes pull the Russia stunt, not so 
suddenly but just the same. At the 
next Soph assembly everybody de
cides that somethings got to bo done 
about it and ;it one-thirty the Plebes 
are razzed. The next day tho Com
mercial Sophs hold a Plebe inspec
tion and then everybody forgets 
about it.
The Alumni will welcome the news 
pertaining to the trip of the Carnegie 
Musical Clubs through Ohio, for it is 
the big chance for them to get back 
some of that Carnegie spirit. Cer
tain clans have organized, and find 
this means a fit way to express their 
love for the Alma Mater. Certain 
other groups are organizing a Clan, 
and the Glee Club concert will aid 
both financially and spiritually, so to 
speak, in this adventure for the 
Glory of Carnegie!
Trips are planned ahead of time by 
the industrious managers, and this 
time concerts have been arranged for 
in five Ohio cities. The first stop will 
be Orrville, on Wednesday, February 
20, when the Glee Club will sing at 
the High School, as it has for the past 
few season. The men in the clubs are 
glad to get back to Orrville again, for 
the treatment they receive by the pat
rons there is unusually good.
In Akron the club will sing for the' 
Saint Vincents Alumni. There lias 
been no concert in Akron by our clubs 
since 1922, when the clubs sang for 
the same organization. No one in the 
clubs at that time could say enough 
about the splendid time they had in 
Akron, and aside from the fact that 
the Assistant Managerthe present 
onegot lost in the woods, the con
cert was a success.
Cleveland will be the next stop, and 
the concert will be given at the Pres
byterian church at 79th and Euclid. 
The concerts in Cleveland have be
come a regular thing on the program 
of the clubs.
An additional concert will be given 
in Youngstown for the Masonic Hall, 
and this will be a splendid affair, ac
cording to the dope received by the 
authorities. The members of the 
clubs have not been told all about this 
concert, for there would be too much 
fighting for places if they knew 
everything.
A concert in Canton will fill the 
program for this trip, and this will 
be an innovation for the clubs. There 
has been no concert there within the 
memory of the present staff, and that 
means new fields to conquer. The 
clubs always do better in new fields, 
as was shown by the concert in North 
East.
The trip promises to. be a great one, 
and the Alumni are urged to come out 
en masse for the concerts. There 
will be several novelty numbers for 
this trip, and a number especially for 
the old grads.
When there was a Song Book about 
to be printed, just chuck full of snap
py, patriotic, and awe-inspiring melo
dies about our Alma Mater19??
When Jack Willard starred in Mu
sical Comedy at the Schenley Thea
ter in a skit "Bohemia, Ltd, and 
Davy Gaithers ran the show? Well 
that was in 1919.
When Pitt was beaten by Carnegie 
Tech in basket ball, 1909?
When our campus was littered up 
with wooden barracks, trenches, 
barbed wire, Army trucks, and Aero
planes, 1918?
When they had final exams in the 
College of Fine Arts, 19??
Mining Prof. Speaks 
to Johnstown Miners
Education Furnishes Mental 
LubricantV irgin
There used to be a lot of excite
ment when the Sophs ran off with the 
Plebe president for their banquet and 
when the Plebes tried to do likewise, 
And when ttye Sophs got peeved after 
finding the Plebes in their banquet 
hall, they paddled all the Plebes in 
the dorms with street car straps for 
which the class had to pay afterwards, 
and then the Plebes sent up a ldtei 
and the Soplis squirted them with a 
fire hose.
So the faculty gets together and 
says We got to cut out these PlebeSopli banquets or well get too much 
undesirable publicity and we mustnt 
have any more fights for the school 
may catch on fire and there, wont be 
no fire hose, or someone might get 
drowned in the tank. But we mustnt 
cut out these here Plebe regulations 
for theyre traditions and we got to 
have traditions. So we got traditions 
and spirit and all* the other trim
mings, when the bands playing and 
, there are six cheer-leaders climbing 
I telephone poles, etc.', and half the 
I Senior class, which is mostly on half 
| a dozen committees or -so and has a 
i lot of spirit, is yelling their heads off.
"Traditions are great things when 
you live up to them, regulations are 
fine when they are enforced, spirit is 
what makes a college, but if a few 
fellows have got to howl and band
it is not generally appreciated by 
alumni of this institution that we 
have here a goodly number of promi
nent men upon our faculty, who are 
greatly in demand for their views up
on various subjects.
One of these is Professor Virgin of 
the Mining Department, College of 
Engineering. Professor Virgin spoke 
before the members of the Coal Min
ing Institute at Johnstown a short 
while back. His utterances on that 
occasion have received wide public
ity. Some of these we are reprinting 
for their intrinsic worth.
Education gives vim, vigor, and vi
tality to industry, and that is essen
tial to keep the wheels of industry 
moving.
The hospitality of working people 
to labor-saving machinery is borne of 
the idea that it will displace the 
working man. It is true that it does 
at time turn out several times the 
product formerly turned out by the 
man but the workman is not exerting 
so much muscular power.
Fortified with education a man 
brings into play his creative ability. 
He is fortified with a power that en
ables him to do his work mre easily, 
and he possesses the education lubri
cant as an enemy to mental friction?
The movement on foot of substi
tuting or at least crediting a com
pleted College course in coal mining 
with two or three years of required 
experience is pernicious. The adop
tion of such a measure would be sim
ply a forerunner of similar meddle
some legislation.
Aiumni Recognition Pin 
Will be Ready by June
A large number of recognition pir 
designs have been submitted for con 
sideration from students, alumni, ano 
competing companies. Many of these 
designs are of an exquisite pattern in 
laid with the colors of the Plaid and 
a Carnegie feature. With such a large; 
number of designs from which to se.; 
lect, Carnegie men and women should 
have an- .appropriate and distinctive 
pin.
The judgment will be held soon and 
after the selection has been made, 
Mr. Tillbrook promises to rush the 
pins through and if possible pins for 
the alumni will be available by June. 
Plans are being laid to get the pins 
in large quantities and distribute 
them through the alumni office. The 
pins will be gold plated and enameled 
and will cost about a, dollar and a 
quarter.
shake and sweat every time they want 
to get any kick out of the students, 
maybe we better not have any.
Highland. College of Highland, Kan
sas, has the distinction of being the 
smallest college in the United States. 
The. attendance numbers a total of 
twenty. Quiz classes at Highland 
should be very interesting if not ex
citing ^.periods at any rate.
t ons and so we are unable to spec
ify them.
As it stands, the record- is remark
able indeed, but perhaps we should 
add that all these men were placed 
a month before commencement last 
June.
UA cap as good as the cream
High praise for Williams Shaving Cream is contained in 
this, suggested slogan for the Hinge-Cap. Yet truly, the 
combination of faster beard-softening, elimination of razor 
friction through lubrication of the skin, and the extra
ordinary care of the skin which Williams gives, has never 
been equalled by any other shaving cream. And Williams 
is a pure product, absolutely without coloring matter! 
Begin on a tubecompare it in every way.
$250 in Prizesv
For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the 
Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following prizes: 1st prize 
$100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, 
$10 each; six 5th prizes, $5 each. Any undergraduate or 
graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit 
identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of 
the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight 
March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon there
after as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write 
on one side of paper only, putting name, address, college and 
class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, 
Tho J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
This is the ncxv Hinge-Cap
WilliamsShaving Creasti
