BASKET BALL 
CARNEGIE VS. W. & J. 
NEW GYMWEDNESDAY, 8:00
THE NILE SONG 
THAT'S ONE ON THE 
SAHARA
VOL. XVIII NO. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1924
Were goin to abolish Poverty Day 
and substitute All-Fools Day instead, 
where costumes will be judged on 
their cleverness instead of their 
scantiness.
The idea seems to be to award the 
prize to the biggest fools in school.
Whos going to head the parade?
Most of the students wont need to 
dress up for this day.
Incidently several members of the 
faculty should stay out of line, or 
they may be awarded honorable men
tion.
MUSIKERS MAKE 
FOUR STOPS ON 
OHIO JOURNEY
There will be a Plebe-Soph fight in 
the spring to determine which presi
dents will attend the banquet of the 
other class.
In other words the losers winfree meal.
The scrap comes in the spring; the 
banquets within two weeks.
Backward, turn backward, Ob 
Time in thy flight.
Now we see how far behind times 
the undergrads are.
Just like sending wedding presents 
in time for the divorce.
Call is issued for the boxing team.
Were going to be in a sad way if 
we depend upon our present Sophs 
for material. They had one good fight 
last year, and theyre still putting 
iodine on their thumbs to remind 
themselves of it.
We didnt win the World War by 
remembering 1S98.
In Campus Comments last week, we 
noticed that everyone agreed that 
there was wonderful wife materia] 
among the Maggie Murphs. However, 
none of them indicated any intention 
of making use of it.
How-so-ever, you never can tell.
They all fall sooner or later.
And anyhow, if a man gets a Mag
gie Murpli, she wont get tired of hear
ing his lies about how he licked the 
whole 'Soph classif he is of a class 
before 1927.
And speaking of girls, we have a 
whole half of the new gym for them. 
Private gymnasium, and everything, 
and nothing to do with ,it except play 
inter-class games.
Just like taking an ocean liner to 
travel up the Allegheny river.
Maybe theyll use their gym to give 
tea dances to the co-eds at Pitt.
How about a varsity knitting, club. 
Theres lots of room for interested 
spectators.
Then we kick because theres no in
interest in girls atliletilcs.
Theres quite a war on the back 
page about a letter some Alumnus 
wrote about the clans. The chief bone 
of contention seems to be that lie 
didnt publish his address so that they 
could lynch him.
Never knew that the clans were so 
vindictive. They fairly dare this boy 
to sign his name to the next letter.
If he does, Good Night! Either he's 
a brave man, or else he isnt in the 
country.
Whats happened to the Shilling? 
Surely the girls havent given up try
ing to persuade the Campus that it 
lacks culture.
The Thistle is a yearly. Lets see 
the Shilling at least twice a year.
If the girls would put out a Jitney, 
or a Campus Dime it would go bigger, 
and faster.
But who wants to fork over a shill
ing to read stuff that they arent in
telligent enough to understand?
Heres a little poem published in the 
Notre Dame daily:
Inconstancy 
A star fell in love with a flower,
And shone with a softening ray, 
Telling his love with a depth and 
power
Hed learned through the whole long 
day.
But the flower was tiny and white and 
small
And she wasnt so sure of the star 
at all.
So nodding her head in her own sweet 
way
She promised to tell him at break 
of day.
Morning came, and the flower was 
sure,
Her love grew strong with the dawn, 
She lifted her head all shining and 
pure,
But the star had faded and gone.
G. ON.
Did you ever see anything as good 
around here? Neither did we. They 
seem to put out something beside foot
ball players out in Indiana.
Surely in all the students we have 
someone who can write as well as 
this boy. Then why dont they?
Even at Maggie Murph, the Sophs 
are letting the Plebes get away with 
everything but their best fellows. 
Just wait until the Plebes start hook
ing the Sophs best efforts in the male 
line, and the regulations will come 
down like the Johnstown flood.
A Plebe-Soph scrap at the college 
would provide more thrills than most 
anything but a bargain sale.
Can you imagine your best girl 
trading scratches with some Miss 
from the sticks of Ohio?
But it isn't ladylike. But neither 
are------fill this in yourself.
In the other column, Dr. Baker men
tions the good points of the location 
of the school. Stop and read that 
over, and youll realize some of the 
advantages of Carnegie Tech besides 
the presence of the Music Box, ana 
the Schenley golf links.
The expansion of the school will 
be limited. But that doesnt mean 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Youngstown, Orrville, Akron 
and Cleveland Crowds Hear 
Carnegie Musical Club 
Concerts
wA^h^wA^hpwo rnd.|MEM0RIAL por
DEPT. HEAD IN 
HUT LIBRARY
MEN ATTEND DANCES
Every member of the Carnegie Tar
tan staff, including the editorial, ath
letic, circulation and business depart
ments, is requested to be present at 
Room 104, Industries Building, on 
Thursday, at 12:30 p. m.
Important disclosures will be made 
at this meeting relative to the part 
which each person will have in the 
new project which the Carnegie Tar
tan is undertaking.
All those who have been asked to 
I aid in the project are also expected 
to be present at this important meet: ing.
The Tartan Is On the Warpath.
The annual trip through Ohio of the 
Carnegie Musical Clubs came to an 
end Sunday as the forty men arrived 
in Pittsburgh from Cleveland, Youngs
town, Orrville. Akron and Cleveland, 
each had a taste of Carnegie music 
as the Glee Clubs warbled and the 
Mandolin Clubs stringed their way 
through the most entertaining con
certs ever given by the clubs.
Bej'ond a doubt the Orrville con
cert was the best given on the trip, 
and for the one reason that at this 
concert the men forgot their stiffness, 
forgot their worries, forgot all stage 
fright, and pepped up a real concert 
brimful of Carnegie spirit. The clubs 
at this time seemed to realize what 
lias been lacking in most of their pro
grams. The clubs should attempt to 
illustrate more fully college life and 
spirit, rather than try to beat the 
grand opera singers out of their jobs. 
This Orrville concert also served to 
illustrate the fact that the members 
of the clubs can give a better pro
gram without the services of their 
director than they can with him on 
the job.
Youngstown was the first stop on 
the trip and although the concert was 
not as peppy as it should have been, 
the dance following was in every way 
a success. Good music, a good floor, 
nice girls, what more could be de
sired? Both affairs took place in 
(Continued on Page Pour.)
Architects Win Honors 
In Warren Competition
Douden Gets First FiftyOne Others Place
One of the most creditable show
ings in its history was made by tho 
Department of Architecture when 
Herbert C. Douden, of 420 South Ditliridge street, won the Warren First 
Prize of $50 in a national competition, 
and fifty-one Carnegie students won 
awards in two problems conducted by 
the Beaux Arts Institute of Design, 
in New York City.
The Warren Prize, consisting of a 
first prize of $50 and a second of $25, 
was the gift of Messrs. Whitney War
ren and Lloyd Warren offered for ex
cellence in planning a group of build
ings. The problem for this year was 
"A Summer Colony. Students from 
the leading architectural schools 
throughout the country entered the 
competition, which was conducted by 
the Beaux Arts Institute, and judged 
by a jury of leading architects.
Students residing in the Pittsburgh 
District won a large share of the hon
ors awarded to the fifty-one Carnegie 
Tech students in the two other prob
lems. In the Class B Analytique of 
A Well Head, William B. Simboll, 
of 163 Reiter street, Pittsburgh and 
Everett R. Roller, of Alliance, Ohio, 
won First Mention Placed awards. 
Donald K. Morrison, of New Haven, 
Conn., was awarded a First Mention.
Second Mentions were awarded to 
the following: James W. Paul, G19
Linden avenue, and Hymen Rosen
berg, 1644 Colwell street, Pittsburgh; 
George T. Popiden, McKees Rocks, 
Pa.; Otis K. Fulmer, McKeesport, 
Pa.; Richard H. Cutting, Cleveland, 
Ohio; James F. Palumbo, Clairton, 
Pa.; M. N. Goodwin, Sharline, Ohio; 
Frederick C. Boldry, Scranton, Pa.; 
Amos C. Lackey, Xenia, Ohio; Ray
mond I. Winters, Mansfield, Ohio; 
Harold E. Wagoner, Sharon, Pa.; El
mer J. Love, Corry, Pa.; A. H. Fisk, 
Huntington, W. Va.; Ray V. Harkless, 
Parkers Landing, Pa.; C. A. Markley, 
Lancaster, Pa.; James F. Glover, 
Staunton, Va.; Earl G. Wheeler, Sioux 
Falls, S. D.
Highest honor among the 31 Car(Continued on Page Four.)
Secretarial Club Bridge 
Gives Promise of Good Time
The final details for the Secretarial 
Club Benefit Scholarship Bridge are 
being worked out by the committee 
and aids. Remember the new date,' 
Saturday afternoon, March 8, at 2:30 
in McCreerys Dining Room, aside 
from aiming to raise enougli money 
for a scholarship the Secretarial Club 
Intends to have a very enjoyable 
party. Delicious refreshments will be 
served, candy will he sold during the 
afternoon and some beautiful prizes, 
which liavo been donated, will he 
a wared, and all this lor $1.00 a 
ticket or $4.00 a table. If you have 
not yet bought a ticket,,buy it soon. 
Get together a table of friends and 
spend an enjoyable afternoon.
The patronesses include: Mrs. E.
W. Page, Mrs. E. M. Vermorcken, 
Mrs. Clifford B. Connelley, Mrs. Wil
liam E. Mott, Miss Edith M. Winches
ter, Miss Mary Louise Brown, Mrs. 
Malcolm McLeod, Mrs. Eduah N. 
Cranna. Miss Hazel McKee, Miss 
Frances King.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL 
COMES OUT TODAY
Articles in Current Issue of 
Journal Are Varied and 
Interesting to All
Carnegies contribution to science 
and good literature, the Technical 
Journal, will appear on the campus to
day with its second issue of the year. 
The publishers do not claim it to be 
any bigger or better than past is
sues. They dont want to discourage 
professional journals.
It may modestly be admitted, how
ever, that several articles of unusual 
interest have been incorporated in 
this number of the Technical Journal, 
and the staff has spared itself no pains 
in securing material of tho best qual
ity. Alumni, faculty, and outsiders 
have contributed to the issue and the 
result is a compilation of excellent in
formation.
The Journal is aptly introduced by 
an editorial from Dr. Baker discussing 
some of the phases of a technical 
education. Mr. Patterson, of Wash
ington, describes the application of 
the physical properties of gases to the 
determination of their components.
An article of unusual interest is 
found in F. L. Ivoothons explanation 
of the mechanism of lubrication and 
how new principles and ideas aro be
ing adapted in this field. Professor 
Wurts relates his experiences in at
tempting to electroplate aluminum and 
his success in doing so by specially 
preparing the surface of the metal.
Frequency curves are discussed 
with some length by Mr. Tucker of 
the Drawing Department and the 
sources and supply of milk for a big 
city by A. J. Burnap. A number 01- 
other articles together with editorials, 
alumni notes, and a page of carefully 
selected abstracts complete tho issue.
(Continued on Pago Two.)
As Memorial to Prof. Keller 
Scientific Books Put in Hut 
Tablet of Bronze Bearing 
Mr. Kellers Name Placed
MOUNTED ON WALNUT
EVER GO ON THE WARPATH?
C^mpus Cwmment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Do you think that tho Freshman 
and Sophomore banquets should bo 
open or secret?
This question has been favored with 
a great amount of discussion and com
ment for the past week or two, and 
there have come to light many dif
ferent phases in which the subject is 
reviewed which may be of interest to 
the entire student body.
"Danny Kramer, Engineer '26, 
.thinks that it should be secret. To 
have it secret is the only way it can 
be used as a medium of working up 
class spirit," he believes, and many 
agree with him.
D. V. Beede, President of the Sopho
more Industries, says:
Under ordinary conditions, and by 
that I mean under conditions which 
make no allowance for a class fight, 
I think a-secret banquet is by far the 
best, but with conditions as they are 
now, and in consideration of the fact 
that Student Council has other plans 
in view, I think that the present open 
banquet is the best solution of the 
problem.
Dusty Micuta Engineer  Plebe, 
says:
To change to an open banquet 
takes all the kick out of the affair, 
and it is relegated to the class.of a 
mere food festival. There should be 
an opportunity for a large mixup be
tween the classes, if only for the sake 
of promoting the right kind of spirit.- 
W. Caven, Engineer '26, thinks it 
should be secret by all means, be
cause of the good effect it has on the 
relations between the.classes.
Paul Tate, President of the Fresh
man class in Arts thinks:
It should be secret, in order to en
courage both class and school spirit. 
The damage doneis never very great, 
and is paid for by the students, and 
the loss of the fun will oijtv/eigh the 
payment. Even if a fight is arranged 
in the spring, it is now that spirit 
should be developed, during tho duller, 
harder, winter months.
Then, I thought it would be a good 
idea to get the opinion of a president, 
that had passed through the danger 
zone, and so "Tommy Dempsey, last, 
year President of Industries Sopho
mores, says:
It should never be changed from 
secret to open, because of the loss of 
interest and excitement that always 
is associated with the affair. As a 
secret occurrence, there Is something 
to look forward to, and the men are 
much concerned with elaborate plans 
for the event. As a common ordinary 
banquet, it doesnt mean a whole lot. 
Midge Matter, Engineer 25, says: 
The present arrangement of the 
Student Council is best, that. is. it is 
(Continued on Page Two.)
As a result of u campaign which 
has been conducted, for almost a.year, 
funds have been gathered together 
and applied to the establishment of 
what is hoped will be a lasting me
morial for one of Carnegies depart
ment heads who did much to pu,t Car
negie on her present plane in the 
technical world. ,Out of respect and 
deep appreciation for his work, 
friends, and associates started the 
drive which has resulted in the pres
ent Keller Memorial.
Many different methods have been 
employed to perpetuate tho memory 
of a man prominent and dearly re
membered among his associates. But 
what could be more fitting, more prac
tical and more thoughtful than n 
memorial of useful books which, can 
be increased in number at any time. 
The Keller memorial Is ono of this 
type.
The Keller Memorial consists of a 
shelf of hooks which will be placed in 
the hut for the use of students and a 
bronze tablet mounted on a block of 
black walnut bearing the name of 
Samuel Smith Keller.
The money to purchase tho books 
was contributed by alumni and mem
bers of the faculty. To date $200.00 
have been collected by the committee 
consisting of Professors Riggs, Ltght(Continued on Pago Two.)
REGISTRATION CARD OR
CANNOT DANCE IN UNION
Tlio recent regulation passod by tho 
Student Council concerning those who 
may attend Carnegies dances is to bo 
rigidly enforced. It has been noticed 
that a great many outsiders have 
been attending dances in the Union. 
In order that tho dances in the future 
may bo made more truly representa
tive of Carnegies student body it has 
been decided that one member of each 
couple must present a registration 
card. Those who fail to observe this 
rule will not be allowed on the floor.
SUMMER SESSION 
SCHEDULE ISSUED
POLICY FOR COMING YEAR
PRIZE LOVING CUP 
FOR SCIENCE STAG
Many New Innovations Will 
Mark the Engineering 
Frolic of 1924
Several Guest Instructors to 
LectureTo Give Courses 
at Pitt
Prize Offered For 
Essay on Carnegie
Wilson Prize of $50 Given for 
Paper on Founder
Through tho' interest and gbnerosity of Margaret Barclay Wilson who 
is Professor of Physiology and Hy
giene at I-Iuntor College, Now York, 
author or A Carnegio Anthology, 
and for many years an intimate friend 
of tho Carnegie family, tho prize of 
$50 is to bo awarded again this yoar 
for tho host essay written by a Car
negie student (on some plmao of tho 
life and work of Andrew Carnoglo.
Tho competition Is open to all reg
istered students except, thoso who 
have won tho prize In somo previous 
year. The essay must contain not 
less than 2500 and not more than 
5000 words. Several subjects have 
been suggested but choice ;iood not 
be restricted to them.
SubjectsAndrew Carnoglos Con
tribution to the Advancement of 
Teaching.
2. Tho Influence of Carnoglo Li
braries upon American Life.
3. Andrew Carnegio as an Author.
(Continued on Pago Four.)
CAN YOU HAIL CARNEGIE?
Sopli Girls Banquet to 
Have Splendid Program
All the Sophomore girls are waiting 
impatiently for Saturday night and 
the first Sophomore Girls Banquet.
The program committee is saying 
very little about the entertainment as 
they wish it to be a complete sur
prise. They will tell us this much, 
that the Tartans will furnish the mu
sic and that both the Maggie Murphs 
and the Arts girls are going to partici
pate in the program. It is up to you 
girls to come and see what your class
mates can do.
Remember girls, this is the first 
Sophomore Girls Banquet and it is up 
to you to help the committee make it 
a grand and glorious success so that 
it will become one of the yearly tra
ditions of Carnegie. Lets all show 
Carnegie Tech spirit and be there Sat
urday night.
PLEBE BANQUET HELD 
AT HOTEL SCHENLEY
The Plebes held their banquet Sat
urday night at the Schenley Hotel, 
and it was voted a very successful 
affair by the large number of Plebes 
attending. Free from molestation by 
the Sophs due to the change in the 
rules governing class banquets, the 
Plebes let loose and enjoyed an 
evening of food and entertainment. 
They also had the satisfaction of hav
ing both presidents with them.
Everyone was seatod at 6: >15 and 
the feed" was eaten to tho syncopat
ed strains of the Collegiate Imps. 
After the remains were cleared away 
H. K. Kirkpatrick, acting as toastmaster, Introduced the speakers of the 
evening.
Dr. Baker was given an enthusiastic 
welcome by the boys, and gave a very 
interesting talk. Dean Tarbell and 
Colonel Day also' gave short speeches. 
Bill Pfouts was on the program and 
held the/boys in a continuous uproar 
with his flow of humor.
A feature of the program which 
(Continued on Page Two )
The schedules of subjects for (ho 
Summer Session of 1924 have been 
posted and distributed to the offices 
of the Directors and Heads of Depart
ments concerned. Students may ob
tain copies at the office of tho Director 
of the Summer Session, Room 230 B, 
Central Building.
Summer courses fall in two main 
groups, those for undergraduates of 
the Institute, and thoso arranged pri
marily for teachers, of Homo Econom
ics, Music, Fine and Applied Art, and 
Manual and Industrial Arts,
All tlio undergraduate courses, with 
the exception of field work in survey
ing, begin Monday, Juno 16. Each 
subject Is made equivalent to tho work 
of a semester by being schoduled for 
twlco tho usual number of hours a 
week. Tho courses In Architecture 
will continue six wooks, ending July 
26; all other undergraduate courses 
are scheduled for eight weeks, closing 
August 8. The two courses in Survey
ing, to bo given at tho camp at Davis, 
Wost Virginia, will begin Thursday, 
Juno 12, tho second day aftor commoncomont. All tho courses offered 
primarily for teachers will begin Juno 
30 and ond August 8.
In co-operation with tho United 
States Bureau of Minos, a four-wooks 
courso in Coal Mining will bo given 
from Juno 16 to July 12.
Tho gonoral tuition foo for class 
Instruction In tho Summer Session if 
$25, $35, or $45, varying with tho num
ber of semester units schoduled. No 
tuition foo will ho charged, for touch* 
ors in Home Economics subjects.
In addition to tho summor courson 
(Continuod on Pago Two.)
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?
Soph-PIebe Scraps 
to Follow Banquets
Latter Part of April is Ten
tative Time
Tho Soph-Plobo class light will not 
bo hold before tho banquets this yoar 
as It was originally planned, but will 
be held later In tho yoar. The time 
has not boon definitely sot but In all 
probability tho contest will talco place 
In tho latter part of April or the first 
of May.
Tho Student Council at its meeting 
last Wednesday night discussed tho 
award that Is to be given tho winner 
of tho light but nothing definite was 
determined. It was planned original
ly that tho winner of tho contest 
should have the honor of the presence 
of the officers of the opposing class 
at their banquet, but since tho fight 
will not be held until after the two 
banquets that Is out of the question.
C. N. Iiollingsworth reported that 
Pi Delta Epsilon had appointed G. E. 
Sly chairman of the Carnegie Hand
book Committee and J. R. Reed bus
iness manager.
The Student Council set the date 
for the nominations for president of 
the Student Council for March 25. 
Each College will hold separate elec
tions and the Student Council will 
elect one of these four to be presi
dent for the next year. General class 
nominations will be held on April 22.
It was decided that the Arts Ball 
shall be held on March 21. that is, if 
there is not another epidemic of scar
let fever.
The 1024 Science Stag which will 
bo hold on March 15, will mark an 
era in thoso celebrated annual Engi
neering frolics.
A real silver loving cup for the best 
class stunt; unique and serviceable 
prizes for the winners of the popular
ity contest; faculty members as 
judges of tho contests; an orchestra 
to provide music for the entire even
ing; good food and real smokes dis
tributed so that everyone will get his 
share; popular and interesting speak
ers; these, along with a few other 
things will make the 1024 Science 
Stag the peer of all previous ones.
The local branch of tho Y. M. C. A. 
through Mr. R. V. Davis, Secretary, 
has donated a silver loving cup which 
will bo given to that class which 
stages tho cleanest., cleverest, and 
most unique stunt. Tho class winning 
tho cup will liayo its name engraved 
upon tho trophy, and will be the hold
ers of it for ono year. Suitable ar
rangements will bo made to keep tho 
cup permanently on display .in the 
club room, of tho Engineering College, 
where all the Engineers may view tho, 
coveted trophy.
Tho committee has decided that tho 
winners of tho popularity- contest shall 
ho awarded serviceable as well 
unique prizes. This should stimulate 
a groat doal of interest In tho popu
larity contest which will bo part of 
tho frolic.
Tho Judges of tho various contostn 
(Continuod on Pago Two.)
Annual Report of President 
Includes Many Facts of In
terest to Every Student at 
Carnegie Tech
TO LIMIT EXPANSION
Soph Hop Promises an 
Entertaining Evening
Committee Will Endeavor to 
Rival Junior Prom
Tho ilnto for tho Sophomoro Hop 
Is March 28th, and tho place Is tho 
Hotel Schonloy. The Hop 'will bo ab
solutely Informal. Tho price Is rea
sonable, only $3.00 por couple, easily 
within roach of everybodys pocketbook.
All of tho forogolng Is tho nocoHiiary 
dopo on tho Hop which Is going to ho 
ono of tho blffgOBt ovonts over spon
sored by a Sophomoro class In tho 
history of school social affairs, The 
Sophomoro class of this yoar has 
shown unusual pop and spirit. They 
have entered ovory activity for which 
they wore eligible with an enthusiasm 
crodltablo to tho united efforts of tho 
class membors.
The manner in which tho oonimlltoo 
membors aro planning Indicates that 
In the future Soph Hops may riviil tho 
popularity of tho annual Junior Prom. 
Its appoal will bo attributed to sev
eral things. First, an informal spirit 
will prevail, although It will he hold 
In the ballroom of tho Hotel Schonloy 
and not on tho campus as the usual 
hop of tho past. Second, Dave Har
mons Orchestra from Williamsport, 
musicians of the hlghost rank, who 
earned a very pleasurable reputation 
at the Mens Junior Prom, February 
1st, will provide joyous melody. The 
orchestra and several promising stu
dents of! the Drama Department prom
ise entertaining diversions.
Third, the price will be only $3.00 
for "Prom entertainment. Think of 
it, the Juniors paid $9.00 to get tills 
same kind of evening. Moreover, the 
women will receive attractive favors.
The committee members making 
the evening possible are:
SciencePaul Bowron, chairman; 
Joseph Raddin.
M. M.Louise Benson, Madeline 
Dale.
ArtsEarl Wheeler, Don Morrison.
IndustriesElvert Thomas, George 
Murphy.
Letter Says Column is a Bloomer
Gives the Dope on Writing Humor
Dear Hank: 
Seeln as how I been reading your 
paper for some five years now and 
as yet aint been able to get the dope 
on what tho guys that has been writin your feature stories has been tryln 
to get over I decided to take my pen 
In hand and set them right.
Somebody once!; told mo that the 
Idea wan to make the college guys 
here laugh ovory oncet In a while 
which Is pretty hard to do what with 
there wrasnlln vs. mechanics and math 
and hydraulics, etc,, and maybe there
eye alnt got no write putting a pen 
on paper.
Now being editor of tho Podunk 
High School Dally Chirp and a contri
butor for 4 yrs for the Tech Journal 
which by the way Is Loo narrow mind
ed to even print any of Beethovens 
good pomes such as Ills Snottln B flat 
I feel that I am In a position to offer 
somo good suggestions which would 
help tho bunch of % wits you got 
wrlfcln your Junk for you.
Personally I got a nlmblo wit as 
you might say as for Inst, at all tho 
Sunday Sciiuol strawberry festivals
Is something In that but as yet I alnt back homo I was always surrounded 
never seen any body bust they sides by a flock of females and youd oughta 
howling about the kind of junk what beard them laugh when Id pull some 
your gang of hack writers has been j witty stuff such as when one would 
handln them. These guys what write task me If I wanted some Ice cream 
about things that they dont know I'd say Yes, we have no bananas" or 
nothin about such as Maggie Murphs | something quick like that which 
and they aint never had a date in they ! would fly out on the spur of the molife and whats more are as much a I meat you might say. 
social lion as I am Spark Plugs left j (Continued jbn Page Two.)
Great opportunities for the develop
ment of tho College of Engineering 
because of Its relation to the indus
tries of the Pittsburgh District are 
seen by Dr. Baker In the twentieth 
annual report of the President to tho 
Board of Trustees. The greatest as
set that our College of Engineering 
possesses, Dr. Baker declares, is 
that it is located in Pittsburgh. This 
is the industrial center of America. 
Hero are located many distinguished 
engineers; here are being carrieU out 
some of ttyo most interesting and im
portant applications of science. What 
we might call tho clinical material for 
tho young student of engineering is 
almost boundless.
Our faculty does not believe in 
what is usually called tho co-opera
tive system of engineering education, 
in which a part o# tho students time 
is passod in shops of manufacturing 
concerns and part in the class rooms 
and laboratories of tho college. Our 
shops are so well equipped that such 
a plan is not necessary. Ono of our 
great advantages however, is that our 
students have tho opportunity of vis
iting tho industrial plants of tho Pitts
burgh District and seolng for themsolvos how tho manufacturing pro
cesses aro carried on.
To Limit Present Expansion.
Ono of the ossontlal principles that 
Is guiding tho present administration 
is tho placing of an embargo on all 
thought of expansion In tho near fu
ture. Wo must now cultivate thor
oughly thoso fields of Instruction 
which wo aro now occupying, tho re
port further says, and until wo have 
dovolopod our prouont opportunities, 
wo should not consider anything in 
the way of oxtonslon of our scope of 
work.
Wo have grown very fast, and tho 
rapid progress of our Institution is 
almost a mlrnolo. Wo havo attempt
ed during tho past yoar, to simplify 
tho administration and to put our 
strongest emphasis upon the work of 
toachlng. in this Institution as well 
as In most American colleges, too 
(Continuod on rago Two.)
Puppet Contest Will 
Start in Next Issue
Liberal Prizes to be Given 
Winners of Contest
Now that tho JDxohango Number In 
a matter of pant history tho Puppet 
staff BA laboring .hard and earnestly 
on tho Toootln* Number which will 
make It appearing hext month. Every
one who has over road a Tootin 
knows that It Is tho acino of wit 
arid ingenuity. By far the best hits 
of local humor on the campus aro 
purveyed to tho readers of tho Pup
pet ovory yoar at this timo and tho 
person who cant cpiote from tho 
Tootin ten minutes artor Its appoaranoo on tho campus is a back 
number..
Coincident with the salo of the 
Exchange Number was tho beginning 
of the copy and art contest. Puppet 
Is grooming itself for tho Issues to 
como and incidentally the College 
Wit Contest hold every yoar by 
Judge. As is the custom of Puppet, 
something is not expected for notlii'ngi, and liberal prizes are to be 
given tho winners' in bo/ It art and 
copy competitions.
The contest will give every per
son on the campus a chance to show 
his humorous side and to see ln 
(Continued on Page Two.)
CASTLE OFFERS CUP IN 
RIFLE COMPETITION
A silver loving cup will be award
ed by the man on the rifle team hav
ing the highest average; by the Cas
tle, the honorary military fraternity 
composed of men from the engineer 
unit of tho R. O. T. C.
The purpose of awarding the cup Is 
to attempt to raise the standard of 
rifle shooting by providing as an In
centive some permanent award. In
cidentally, it is hoped to raise tho In
terest in the rifle team. This is one 
sport which does not got the recog
nition it deserves. It Is traditional 
that Americans can handle firearms 
well, Now days thoro is not tho de
mand for this ability an In oldon 
times; nevertholosH, It Is still useful.
Tho Castle held a Joint mooting and 
smoker at tho Beta Thcta PJ house 
last Thurnday night. Colonel Fairley, 
who Is president of the Pittsburgh 
chapter of the Society of Military Englnoorn, gave a short talk, emphasiz
ing tho economy of preparedness. He 
stated that thousands of lives could 
have been saved during the last war 
If the allies had been prepared when 
they entered tiie conflict.
Following, the talk, the soldiers ad
journed to the quartermasters de
partment where the morale of the 
army was considerably raised by in
jections of hot dogs and coffee.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY,* FEBRUARY 26, 1924
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Instituto of 
Technology under tho supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
BUSINESS MANAGER ......................................................................Illland 4011-.T
FRED T. PIIILPS.....................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT.. 
MARK S. DOWNES 
H. II. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS ......................................................................Schonloy 0220
NEWS EDITORS............................................. Schonloy 0070
F. I). ROSSINI.................
A. S. ANDREWS ..........
.................................................................... Schonloy 0070
.................................................................... Schenley 0211
E. C. FRAZIER...................................................Schonloy 0148Athletic Editor
R. W. S LE AT II ............
W. K. JEFFREY............
E. P. COUSE, JR...........
...................................................................... Photographer
............................................................Exchange Editor
............................................................................Art Editor
T. J. DEMPSEY..............
W. M. GIBSON................
..........................................................Circulation Manager
............................Schonloy 0211Advertising Manager
j-iv.v-' .......
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Estollo Garibaldi 
Elizabeth Jane Gordon 
Wilma Stlner 
Carol Folglit 
Muigarot McFall 
Rosemary McCambrUlgo 
Nora Wlllots
Almoe Pliaro J. M. Goss 
N. C. Woser F. M. McClelland 
V. B. Smith M. W. Gay 
L. II. IlaiTls C. A. Lundrjulst 
E. G. Johnson R. L. Lepper 
K. Fulmer J. N. Conley 
A. F. Carson Ilolllnshead
Duo to intense stagnation of the 
cereblal tissues, the Hoot Mon is 
hereby officially declared defunct, 
"Theres many a slip twlxt thought 
and a cjuip." However we might 
make a few remarks before passing 
out.
I may bo dead/' muses the author, 
"but I'm not a Sophomoro. From 
all outward appearances the Soph 
class never heard of Plebe regtllatlons. in our opinion the height of 
indifference Is a Soph who can watch 
a Plebe escort a Maggie Murph across 
tho Cut, and will overlook the of
fence entirely. Of course the Mag>- 
gib Murph may not be good looking 
but Its tho principle of the thing 
that counts. It's worth spllttin 
hairs about. Wo hope that the prize 
for the most indifferent man at the 
Science Stag goes to a Soph.
Helen Corrao
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
, Jacoby J. Christoff J. F. HarrisE. C. Plummer
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moskovitz, J. W. Metro, P. Edie, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, A. Porreton, Lee C. Osborn, E. L. Reeves.
Tho Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All nows Items must bo In the student 
post oillco before 4:.'10 Thursday.
Tartan OillcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30-
1:20.
YE GAMBOL OF YE GUILDS
CARNEGIE TARTAN ON THE WARPATH
On rare occasions during the history of our institution, there 
arise projects which are oi! momentous import to us and oi! incalcul
able value in the development oi! our school.
During the past year, under the protection oJ: the Carnegie Tar
tan, such a project has arisen. The supfessful completion of this 
work will give to our school that needed solidification oi! spirit and 
aim which will foster a greater, more unified, and more serviceable 
Carnegie. This undertaking will cement the ties that join Carnegie 
Alumni to their Alma Mater. It, will be another strong link in the 
chain ol! Carnegie tradition.
As in every other line ol! endeavor, co-operation of effort and 
correlation oi! work on this project are necessary before success will 
crown our efforts. Consequently it behooves every member oi: the 
Carnegio Tartan staff, and all those persons who have been asked to 
aid us in tho project, to do their utmost, to exert every effort to do 
well that which they have been called upon to do, in order that this 
undertaking may achieve that success which it so richly deserves.
A Warpath Meeting will be hold this Thursday, in Room 104, 
Industries Building, at 12:30 P. M. Lot all ol! us on tho Tartan staff, 
and all those who have been asked to aid in the work, be present at 
this important meeting.
SELFISHNESSACTIVITIESFRATERNITIES
This is another activities oditoiiftl. It answers two questions.
When is a Holfish man not Hellish?
How can the fraternal light ol recognition bo focused upon a man?
This paper is sending out i'eolors among tho student body for 
last weeks editorial on  Whats Wrong With Activities? run into 
two choice I)its ol! ideas. It is Jolt that thoso ideas properly presented 
to the student body cannot help but nid activities in general at Carnogio. Not only thoro but at any other c.olloge with similar difficul
ties.Within nil ol' us thoro is n personal desire for aggnindi'/.ement. 
Ipleotion to n fra torn ity is one goal. Election to important activities 
is another. Holding down class oflicos in still another. In all ol' these 
there is a satisfaction ol' a personal aggrandizement. Is this selfishY 
It is and it is not.
There are men on tho campus who work excessively hard to 
gain control ol! certain activities; to gain election to big activity posi
tions; to rule over certain eommittoos; and, WII.YV To satisfy their 
own personal vanity.
Still, is this wrong? Is it not for the good ol activities at Car
negie Tech? Assuredly, it is good for one to work hard to gain a 
position, even though it is in fulfillment of a certain selfish desire to 
aggrandize ones self. It aids activities in general, because through 
hard work, one is better able to hold down a job. Again, looking 
from another angle; suppose he were to improperly fulfill the duties 
ol! his position? Disgrace to him would result. Therefore in order 
to dodge disgrace, because of the blotch upon his ability, and there
fore to satisfy his personal vanity, ho works especially hard.
Then it is that a selfish man is not selfisli. The more a man 
works to advance self, the better he can serve his community.
Which brings us to the second question.
Men can roughly be said to be of two types. One, through his 
personal appearance immediately attracts the eye. He naturally 
places himself before the fraternity. The other, not blessed with an 
attractive outward appearance must depend upon the man within, 
lie attracts himself to the fraternity through his initiative, ability, 
and personality as brought out by doing things, and the best way 
to do things is to get in activities.
Thus it is: we are both selfish and not selfish when we get in 
activities.
While In this caustic mood we 
shall give vent to a few remarks 
about tho printer who is supposed 
responsible for this paper. After 
the last Tartan we know he is irre
sponsible. An article about the 
Newman Club was headed "Foundrymen to Visit Carnegio in April. 
Ecumenical appeared In bold letters 
011 the front page and resulted in 
many embarrassing questions from 
those who suspected our connection 
wlt.li this yellow Journal, and worst 
of all, our signature was omitted!
But no printers are inviolate. The 
Southern California Trojan blazes 
forth with the headline:
WOMEN'S CLUB TO SPONSOR
LUNCHEON AT $200 A PLATE 
and In the Texas Lasso we find 
A fox squirel plunged the city of 
McKinney Into darkness last Mon 
day night when it climbed upon r 
pole of the Texas Power and Light 
Company service line, causing a cir
cuit and burning tho static wire to 
a crisp.
Pago the SPCA!
To catch an error unaware 
Yourself must find it.
In linotype, 'tis ever there,
The devil himself designed It;
And errors all are most persistent, 
Yet where they fall is inconsistent.
Now that its done it doesnt seem 
so bad. Maybe, well revive It again 
next week.
KARL
Thursday night marked the fifth an
nual celebration of Ye Olde Gambel of 
Ye Guilds. The Union was decorated 
in green and yellow, with lamp shades 
of various hues that reflected a color
ful glow upon the dancers beneath. 
On the walls were many bronze tab
lets, and paintings illustrating the 
idea of a trade, or an apprenticeship. 
Hero and there, In corners and along 
the walls stood many grim sentinels 
of trade. Here an anvil, there a lathe, 
a work bench, or an old fashion press; 
all contributed to the atmosphere of 
industry.
Quite unlike many former events of 
this tradition, tho white overalls and 
coarse shoes were conspicuous by 
their absence, having given way to 
tho smart tailored serge and tuxedo, 
the patent leather pumps and danc
ing slippers, surpassed only by tho at
tractive evening dresses of varied col
ored silks and satins.
Tho music was of the usual fine 
quality furnished by tho Collegiate 
Imps, and to tho orchestra goes much 
credit for the success of the evening.
Joe Davis, chairman of the commit
tee seemed to be around everywhere 
to satisfy himself that everyone was 
thoroughly enjoying the evening.
Refreshments were served through
out the dance in the form of punch 
with the "necessary" ingredients, and 
cakes of many colors.
The patrons and patronesses were: 
President Thomas S. Baker, Director 
and Mrs. John T. Morris, Dean Mary 
Louise Brown, Dean and -Mrs. A. W. 
Tarbell, Prof. and Mrs. C. C. Leeds, 
Prof. and Mrs. C. G. Dunnells, and 
Prof. and Mrs. John L. I-Ioyle.
Much credit is due the committee 
composed of Joe Davis, chairman; 
Hen. Dosey, F. Brook, R. D. Gill, R. 
Bridges, and W. B. Gooby. Also to 
tho artist, E. Eberman, who fur
nished the attractive paintings of 
Tradesmen.
Many thanks are extended the 
Freshmen who so willingly helped 
and to the departments who co-oper
ated by supplying the local color in 
the form of anvils, lathes, etc.
At 1 a. m. the 150 odd couples were 
seen wending their homeward way 
weary but happy in the unanimous 
opinion that the fifth annual celebra
tion of Ye Gambol of Ye Guilds was a 
great success, second to none of the 
our previous ones, and this is saying 
it great deal.
The local Foundrymans Association 
will meet here Monday, April 21, at 
the invitation of C. B. Connelley, di
rector of industrial relations. Dinner 
will be served in the Margaret MorriSUMMER SESSION
SCHEDULE ISSUED
STUDENT CALENDAR^
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 29
The Bolted Door............................................................Little Theater
SATURDAY, MARCH I
Morter Board Bridge............................................................Forbes Hall
Sophomoro Girls Banquet...............................................Schenley Hotel
The Bolted Door............................................................Little Theater
SATURDAY, MARCH 8 
Secretarial Club Bridge ...................................................... MoCroerys
March 21 Will be Date
For Feast of Lanterns
March 21 has boon found tho most, 
satisfactory, and him boon definitely 
set its tho date for tho postponed Arts 
Ball. Tho Post Ball Dnuco will bo 
held tho following evening according 
to original plans. The date of March 
28 as announced last week was only 
tentative.
The Garber-Davis Orchestra will 
not be on hand for the Feast of tho 
Lanterns, but an equally good group of 
musicians will be secued for both the 
Ball and Post-Ball dances. All other 
plans which were made for tho ball 
will be followed in the ball of March 
21.
Excited Voice (over the phonel: 
Doctor, doctor, my mother-in-law is 
at death's door. Come and sea if 
you can pull her through.Pel.
CAMPUS COMMENTS
(Continued From Pago one.) 
tho boat plan mat can bo devised with 
only tho present suggestions that lut 
boon given to Council, to go by. Wlmt 
should bo done, If a bettor plan Is 
sought, Is to hand in your Idea on tin 
matter, and then, If It Is better -than 
the one suggaaiod of having a 
regular class fight in the spring, with 
the banquets to follow it (having tho 
banquets open), it will be put into ef
fect."
And now, if you are interested in 
finding a better way to settle the ques
tion. think up a plan that will be re
garded by the Student Council a? be
ing a good one. Every Sophomore 
and Freshman, who has the interest 
of future classes at heart, should give 
some consideration to this question.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
given on our own campus, the Depart
ment of Music and tho combined De
partments of Painting and Illustration 
and Applied Art will give six courses 
on tho campus of the University of 
Pittsburgh for students tho major por
tion of whose summer work Is not In 
technical fields. _
For the most part tho courses of tho 
Summer Session will bo conducted by 
mombors of tho regular staff of Car 
nogio Tocli. There will, howovor, be 
several guest Instructors. Mr. C. Val
entino Kirby, Director of Art of the 
State Departments of Public Instruc
tion, will bo prosont; from July 7 to 
18 and give a sorlos of loct.uros and 
Informal talks to studonts in tho DO' 
partmonts of Painting and Illustration 
and Applied Art. For tho work In 
Architectural Design and Outdoor 
Sketching, to bo given by tho Depart 
mont of ArcMtocturo, tho sorvloos or 
Mr. J. V. Wilson of I ho firm of Wilson 
and Mitchell of this city lmvo boon 
secured. f
PRIZE LOVING CUP
FOR SCIENCE STAG
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
will bo chosen front among tho mem
bers of tho Engineering faculty and 
they will distribute tho prizes.
The most popular man on tho facili
ty of tho Engineering College is being 
engaged to deliver a talk at tho stag. 
Another spoakor will bo a well-known 
athletic coach, who will have ait In
teresting address to make. E. R. Pat 
ton, chairman of tho dommtttob, says 
that hearing those speakers will be 
a treat in itself.
Another Innovation in the program 
is the provision made for music 
throughout the evening. This will be 
furnished by an orchestra which the 
committee is engaging.
E. R. Patton has made the following 
assignments on his committee: D. A. 
Schoerke, treasurer; F. W. Bremmer, 
charge of providing food and 
smokes: J. B. Whitman, in charge of 
stage, lighting, and equipment; F. D. 
Rossini, in charge of publicity and 
tickets. Fritz Bremmer will see that 
good food and real smokes are pro
vided and so distributed that every
one will get his share.
Eta Kappa Nu, the honorary elec
trical fraternity, has offered to take 
care of the lighting for the affair and 
has appointed O. Will as chairman oi 
the committee which will take charge 
of this work.
Last year tho Plebes, class of 1926, 
won the class stunt prize. It is being 
rumored that this years Plebes are 
all sot to cop tho prize. Tho class 
which wins the prize this year will 
have tho honor of being tho first class 
to have Its name inscribed on tho cup. 
Whethor tho uppor-classmon will per
mit tho Plobos to walk away with tho 
silver oup remains to bo soon. Ono 
thing Is suro, the class which wins 
the sliver oup will have to produce 
a real clover and unique stunt, one 
which Is full of clean liuhior.
PLEBE BANQUET HELD
AT HOTEL SCHENLEY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
also met with the approval of the 
boys was , a dance by an oriental 
dancer from tho "Greenwich Village 
Follies."
This act concluded the entertain 
ment and the boys dispersed well 
pleased, having spent a pleasant even
ing. The credit for the success of the 
affair is due to the efforts of Stewart 
Brown and Leonard Flowers, chair
men of the committees.
son Cafeteria and the evening ses-j followed by a smoker in Room 60,
gcjence Bujiding^ at 7:30 p. m. The 
purpose of the meeting will be to dis
cuss the recognition that, has been 
given the rifle team by the Athletic 
Counfcil, and to amnate new members 
with the club. The dues for the re
mainder of the year are $1.00 plus 
$1.00 initiation fee.
This is an opportunity for all who 
so desire to join the club, and * come 
out for the rifle team. Members of 
team will be awarded athletic insignia 
by the Athletic Council, so it be
hooves all those interested in^. doing 
something for Carnegie to come to 
this meeting.
Moreover a social good-time is guar
anteed. As an extra attraction Cap
tain Lyons of the Military Department 
will speak.
There are to be no charges for the 
smoker, and all those interested in 
rifle shooting, as well as the members 
of the club, are invited.
sion following will be held in the Cen
tral Building.
The main object is to get in closer 
touch with the work which the school 
is doing in the Industries Department 
and to discuss the training of fore
men. It is planned to give these men 
foundry set up in the way of moulds 
and a demonstration of acetylene cuting and welding by the experts here, 
this matter also to be discussed in 
connection with the meeting.
Next year it is planned to hold here 
at the school a two-day Foundry In
stitute in which both local people and 
the people of Pennsylvania are to 
ake part. Such an Institute has been 
badly needed here and local foundrymen in brass, grey iron and steel are 
especially interested. These meetings 
will be open to the student body and 
it is hoped that the students will take 
advantage of the opportunity to hear 
the papers of these practical men.
AND THATS THAT
(Continued From Page 1) 
that tho students shouldnt expand 
mentally at least. The size of the liat 
band is included In the Presidents 
idea.
Cut it out and send it back to tho 
Old Folks at Homo.
Maybe somebody from the homo 
town will appreciate what a good 
school you go to. But then they may 
expect too much when you come home 
and go to work. Better not.
Tf enough men , sign up,, there will 
bo a golf team tills spring. For 
Scotch school, nothing could bo more 
appropriateGolf, not Scotch.
They might get some suits from the 
band, and send tho golfers around in 
uniform. And why not?
Wo 'can have two tealns, Faculty 
and Varsity. Lots of hoys could pass 
ticklish coursos by flubbing puts, or 
slicing drives at critical points on the 
course.
F. C. S.
MEMORIAL FOR DEPT. HEAD
IN HUT LIBRARY
(Continuod From Page Ono.) 
cap and Leods. Professor ltlggs being 
soloctod as chairman. Thoso books, 
some of which have already boon pur 
based and put into uso for studonts, 
aro of a scientific nature to be used 
as reference books.
riio bronze tablet is of a vory mod
est but fitting doslgn with simple let
tering and Is tho creation of Mrs. S'ue 
Watson Marshall. Mrs. Marshall, then 
Miss Watson, was one of l.ho earliest 
graduates of Tho College of Fine Arts. 
The casting, mounting, and finishing 
was performed personally by Mr. W, 
II. Dosey. The background for the 
tablet is a block of walnut which came 
from the farm of Mr. William Pfouts1 
father in Ohio. It is a piece of origi
nal walnut well finished and gives 
fitting background for the bronze.
Professor Keller was made head of 
the mathematics department at the 
time of its inception in 1905 and con
tinued in this capacity until the time 
of his death in 1923. Mr. Keller was 
a capable and well liked man. The 
memorial is just a small outward ex
pression of the deep sympathy and re
spect held by the alumnus and mem
bers of the faculty who knew him.
0UNDRY MEN TO VISIT 
CARNEGIE IN APRIL
RIFLE CLUB TO HOLD
MEETING AND SMOKER
On Friday, March the seventh, the 
Rifle Club will hold a short meeting
CAN YOU HAIL CARNEGIE?
Mortar Board Prepares 
List of Future Members
UNUSUAL PROGRAM OF
CITMAS CLUB SMOKER
At a recent meeting of Mortar 
Board, honorary organization of 
Senior Women, the members voted to 
select twenty girls from the Fresh
man and Sophomore classes of the 
College of Fine Arts and Margaret 
Morrison, who would be considered as 
eligible for Mortar Board.
The girls will be judged according 
to personality and character while any 
evidence of leadership displayed by 
the individual during her life on the 
campus will also be considered.
The members of Mortar Board are 
now preparing the list of recognized 
names. This list will, in all proba
bility, be ready for publication in the 
next issue of the Tartan, according 
to Miss Helen Johnson, president of 
the organization.
The recent move of the Senior or
ganization marks the first definite 
step in providing an incentive for 
Freshmen and Sophomore women stu
dents. '
DR. BAKER ANNOUNCES
POLICY FOR COMING YEAR
MODERN THRILLER WILL 
BE DRAMATIC OFFERING
The Little Theater in Arts School 
is having its share of new plays this 
season. The very successful produc
tion of The Bird In the Hand" 
marked the first of these new plays.
Next Friday and Saturday another 
of the newer plays will be produced 
by the members of the Drama Depart
ment. "The Bolted Door," a play 
fresh from the pens of Thomas Wood 
Stevens and Cora Jarrett, will be 
given in its initial presentation in the 
Little Theater.
"The Bolted Door is a melodra
matic thriller in four acts. It will be 
staged under the direction of Chester 
Wallace.
The cast includes Mary Brown, 
Verner Halden, Mary Skurky, Claire 
Schellhaze, Hardie Albright, Margaret 
Ripley, Jack Daniels, Phillip Thorne 
and Ellsworth Perrin.
Those desiring tickets can secure 
them today in the Deans Office.
Cosmopolitan Club 
To Meet Feb. 29
Newly Registered Students 
Invited to Attend
The Citmas Club will hold a smoker 
at the Acacia House, 630 Clyde street, 
this Thursday, February 28, at 8:30 
p. m.
This is the first of series of social 
affairs to be held by the club this 
year, and a good turnout is expected. 
A short business session, smokes and 
an unusual program will be the order 
of the evening.
The Citmas Club is organized to 
promote friendship and sociability 
among the master masons on the 
campus, and any student, member of 
the faculty or staff, who is a master 
mason, is eligible to membership and 
is invited to the smoker. The club 
is a member of the National League 
of Masonic Clubs. This gives mem
bers of the Citmas Club the privilege 
of visiting any Masonic Club in the 
country.
At its annual election held recent
ly, the following officers were chosen: 
Harry E. Dewey, President; Nester C. 
Purdue, Vice President; Einar Rygg, 
Secretary; Thomas R. Allen, Treas
urer.
PUPPET CONTEST WILL
START IN NEXT ISSUE
LETTER SAYS COLUMN IS A
BLOOMERGIVES THE DOPE 
ON WRITING HUMO
(Continued From Page One.)
Personally I know 3 ways which 
sure of getting a laugh anytime 
which I will enumerate below as fol 
lows e. g. get a bunch of funny words 
which dont make no sense and
(1) write em down on paper with 
either pencil or pen and ink or a 
typewriter either of which is imma
terial.
(2) tell em to your friends in the 
parlor or tho dining room or anywear 
you happen to ho at the moment, 
which is essential bocauso tolling a 
joko bocauso It wont lmvo no unity 
as tho engllsh dept would say.
(3) sing em to any tuno wlclt you 
happen to know or If you alnt got any 
right handy in your mind you can uso 
somethin like yes we got no bananas 
wlcli aint no tuno but wlclt will do in 
a pinch as the cop said when he put 
his arm around tho cook.
Now Hank If you got any
(Continued From Page One.) 
much importance has been attached 
to executive work and not enough to 
thorough instruction.
Courses Too Technical.
In reporting the steps taken to lib
eralize the engineering courses, Presi-1 
dent Baker says: The engineering
schools have been confronted by a 
demand that their students shall be 
trained along more liberal lines. Men 
of affairs and men eminent in the en
gineering profession have found fault 
with tho instruction which is given 
to technical men, claiming that it is 
too specialized, and that while the lat
ter day graduate may know some of 
tho essentials of his profession, he is 
not a broadly trained man. Ho does 
not know economics and history sufllciently to perceive the relation be
tween his own work and the general 
economic life of the world.
Will Stick to Four Year Course.
Tho quickest nnswer to tlio com
plaints is to be found in tho lengthen
ing of the couise, and many of our 
faculty believe that it should be ex
tended to a period of flve years. 
There is a place in our national plan 
of education for the five year course, 
but 1 beliovo there are many institu
tions which are fully justified in 
awarding the degree of Bachelor of 
Science at the end of four years. I 
think we belong in this category. We 
can' serve our community and the 
type of student coming to us best by 
conforming to this plan. We must 
make up our minds, however, that in 
this period we cannot turn out either 
the completely trained engineer or 
the man of wide reading and broad 
culture. If we select our students 
carefully and are content to do well 
whatever we undertake in our instruc
tion, I am sure we can develop a type 
of college man who will have a reas
onable professional equipment and a 
good general education.
The failure of college students to 
write their mother tongue well, lie 
reports, has caused much concern to 
the officers and teachers in all Ameri
can colleges. We shall attempt to 
correct this condition in our institu
tion. The teachers in our department 
of English will examine the technical 
reports of the upper classmen. We 
shall require a prescribed course of 
reading for all Freshmen to be done 
during the summer. The college 
should do what it can to supplement 
the inadequacies of previous training, 
but it is a serious business to over
come the defects of early instruction. 
Teachers Should Be Encouraged. 
Our faculty believes'that the pub
lic school officers place too much em
phasis on the .theoretical aspects of 
teaching, but we must meet the de
mands, and to do this requires an in
timate knowledge of the plans of the 
many state and municipal school systom which our students may enter, 
j We feel that the courses for teach| ers should be encouraged apd develj oped. The demand for teachers of 
j such subjects as home economics, in| dustrial arts, drawing nnd music, is 
greater than the supply, and wo can 
do a useful task if we help in moot
ing tills need.
Other sections in the report covers 
a discussion of the unusually satisfac
tory relations with studonts and their 
I activities; a record of the Alumni(Continued From Page One.) 
name in print. There is no better 
wayl to start on the road to a jalce 
little Puppet- key and a staff posi
tion than to submit copy or art con
tributions for the contest. The 
prizes will be extremely worth while 
and exceedingly negotiable and there 
is no reason why every one should 
not try his hand at the game. Copywriting is easy, as any! one of the 
staff members will tell you, if you 
once get the idea that you can do it. 
Get out a sheet of Manilla and1 a 
soft pencil and make things fly. The 
early bird grabs off the gravy 
everyone knows.
Newly registered students who are 
interested in the work which the 
Cosmopolitan Clubs is doing are in
vited to attend a meeting to be held 
in the rooms of the College Club on 
Craig street, February] 29. The mem
bers will meet at eight-fifteen oclock 
for business and discussion. The 
topic for discussion in the meeting 
is the folklore of different nations. 
Members of the club who represent 
Russia, India, the Philippines and 
England will tell of the folkore of 
their respective nations. Refresh
ments wil be served during the even
ing.
For those who would know more 
about the Cosmopolitan Club and its 
work, it might be stated here that it 
is an organization of both American 
and foreign students from the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh and Carnegie. 
This group of men and women meet 
once a month in a social gathering 
or in a meeting where the members 
discuss the different phases of the life 
in the countries which they repre
sent. In this way a knowledge of the 
peoples and life of these nations is 
spread and1 a spirit of good feeling 
and comradeship is advanced. For 
those interested, the meeting on Feb
ruary 29 offers a splendid1 opportun
ity to see the work which the club 
is doing. Those who feel such an 
interest are cordially invited to at
tend.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL
COMES OUT TODAY
jEZU-gs
Daman
Do you rcnlly think tlmt a 
pood pencil helps you to do 
better work ?"
Pythias
"I know'll docs I Why, Im 
even able to read iny own 
handwriting, now Hint Ive 
started us Ins a Dixon's 
Eldorado!"
B.
~/Ae master dmwigpendi 
17 leadsnil dealers .Er-.......... --d
(Continued From Page One.)
The staff is very proud of the re
sult of its efforts during a period 
when studies rather than activities 
were in order. The men should be 
| congratulated upon their ability and 
' deserve to receive the unanimous ap
proval of the student body. Copies 
of the Journal may be procured from 
any of the salesmen about the campus.
You have tried the REST 
Now try the BEST.
Come to the
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
The place you have been look
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
The h^g^bwnd Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL '
3904 FORBES STREET
Series of Addresses of Special 
Interest to Students.
Asbury Methodist 
Episcopal Church
BURT DAVID EVANS, D.D.
Sunday morning at 11 o'clock 
Building a Working Faith." 
The Spiritual Faculty, The Quest 
of God, Man and the Cosmos, 
Modern Science and the Origin 
of Life, The Garden of Eden.
Sunday evening at 8 oclock 
The Re-Discovery of Jesus, The 
Teaching of Jesus, Jesus and 
Spiritual Religion, The Educa
tion of Jesus, Jesus and Radi
calism.
wicli I doubt that you got seein as you | Student Placement Bureau, showing 
been lettin these guys got away with ^ full-time positions for men
tho junk they get away with you can raduntes, 66 full-time positions for
EVER GO ON THE WARPATH?
use the above mentioned ideas to 
teach them how to get a laugh or if 
you would prefer to get some real 
snappy stuff wich is sure to go good 
I will write it for you from now on. 
By the way my room mate has been 
dead since this morning.
Hoping you are the same
JOE KOLLIDGE.
women graduates, and nearly 3500 
jobs for part-time work were secured 
by the Bureau during the year, and 
that $51,000 for men and ?13,000 for 
women, were earned in part-time em
ployment on work secured for stu
dents by the Bureau.
Youve often heard how ageing in wood im
proves fine wines. Now listen to this: Thebest 
Kentucky Burley Tobacco (the same as fine . 
wines) loses every bit of its harshness and 
rawness when it is aged in wrood.
Velvet Tobacco is Kentuckys best Burley, 
aged in wood.
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?1JGCKTTS KETLC RNTGIIN VN.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1924
PLAID ATHLETICS
DYKEMAN WORKING FOR
OLYMPIC C. C. TRYOUTS! WESTMINSTER WINS 
FAST GAME, 26-23
PRESIDENTS HAND 
BLOW TO TARTANS
PITT GIRLS MAKE CLEAN 
SWEEP AGAINST PLAIDOn the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
Howard Dykemnu wlll lutve nu opportunity to try out Cor tho Unitoti 
States Olympia tonni, lt has boou unnouncoil from tho ollloo oi tho Gratiunto Manager.
Dykonmu wns reaontly cliosou tho 
second bost cross country muu in 
Eastorn Collegiate oiroles, and tho 
honor of attainiug un Olympiu berth 
would not ho iv surpriso. Ho wlll 
work out iu tho P. A. A. gym in ordor 
to compoto in somo oarly tryouts for 
tho Olympic team.
The University of Pittsburgh Sopho
more girls basket ball team defeated 
the Tartan Sophomore team in a hard 
fought and well-played game Saturday 
in Trees Gym. The game was closely 
contested throughout having several 
tie scores during the game. Miss Cor
bett, a Tartan guard, was the individ
ual star of the game.
Lineup:
Pitt Sophs16 Carnegie Sophs12
J. Muetsr............F. .........H. Corrao
G. Schilling........F......B. Rankin
E. Thomson....... C. .N. 'Cunningham
S. Perovsky____S.C..................C. Durie
K.Burgun ............ C ..........J. Corbott
H. Lloyd............ G....................M. Hill
Field goalsMueter 5, Cook 2, Cor
rao 2, Schilling, Rankin. Foul goals 
Mueter 2 out of 6, Corrao 1 out of 4, 
Cook 1. SubstitutionsCook for Ran
kin, Rankin for Till.
Robertson and Cappe Will be 
Nucleus for SquadAl 
Irwin to Coach
Visitors Present Fast, WellCoached Squad  Plaid 
Takes Early Lead
Unexciting Contest Goes to 
Red and Black by Score 
of 26 to 16
A WORD FROM KARL DAVIS
We received a letter this week from K. E. Davis, tho Graduate Manager 
of Pitt Athletics. We take pleasure in printing Mr. Davis letter:
Dear Mr. Frazier:
Some one has been kind enough to send me recent copios of your paper, 
and I have read with great interest the column On the Plaid Screen edited 
by you. .Your comments on the Tech-Pitt basket ball game are very fair, in
deed, and are another evidence of the fine sportsmanship being exhibited by 
the Tech fellows. It is really wonderful what has been accomplished in tho 
last few years, and I am quite sure with this condition existing that the two 
schools can have athletic relations on the most friendly basis. The Tartan 
has undoubtedly done much to create this fine feeling through its editorials 
on the sporting page and elsewhere.
I attended the basket ball game with my wife, and while I was naturally 
pleased at winning, I was just as much gratified by the splendid treatment 
accorded our boys by the Tech supporters. We hope to give you the same 
cordial treatment when the second game is played at Motor Square Garden 
March 5.
Anyone can be a good winner, but it takes a real sportsman to be a 
graceful loses.
With kindest regards, I am
Cordially yours,
(Signed) K. E. DAVIS.
An Ideal fioUl for baseball, and loss 
than ton minutes walk from the cam
pus has boon secured. It is none 
other than our old athletic friend, 
Schenley Oval, whore many a speedy 
Tartan has brought homo honors for I 
his school. Coach Al Irwin, former 
star catclior for tho Plaid, has an
nounced that battery practice will 
start Monday, March 3. The schedule 
has been approved by . the Athletic 
Council, the managerial staff has been 
appointed, and with tho coming of 
spring, fancies are turning to 
thoughts of love and baseball.
Prospects for the season are more 
a matter of conjecture than over. 
Very little is known of the baseball 
material now in school. Jimmy Rob
ertson and Jack Cappo are the only 
two letter men in the national sport 
left from tho 1D22 season. Many of 
the Plebe team of that yoar, however, 
are expected to make a good showing 
this season. If tho familiar game of 
catch in front of Scobell Hall may bo 
taken as an indication, the sport will 
have many candidates from that sec
tion.
. Douglas A. Schoerke has been ap
pointed manager of baseball by the 
Athletic Council, his assistants being 
F. C. Hoenniger, J. H. Joynt, and A. 
S. Andrews. A formal call will be 
Issued later on for Sophomore aitd 
Freshman assistants.
Tho first game is that with West 
Virginia University at Morgantown, 
and those who wore hero two years 
ago, will remombor tho hotly contest
ed series that tho Plaid divided with 
the Mountaineers that soasoti. Tho 
tliroo game series with PTtt is un
doubtedly attracting more attention 
than most of tho othor games, as lt 
remains for us to prove our athlotlc 
supremacy by winning tills baseball 
series. So far, wo lmvo divided tho 
honors with tho University across tho 
GOLF IS ASSURED way, by a victory In football, and by
Our little spiel about the golfers last week brought some response, and losing a memorable basket ball gamo
the list is now of sufilcient proportions to assure the organization of a golf on tho night our now gymnasium was
team. _________________________________________________________________________ oponod.
Nearly all our oppononts In basoBiasott CARNEGIE WILL play bnll th|H com|MK a0aaon, had strong
MARINES ON NOVEMBER 22 teams last yoar, and from all Indica
tions our boys will have to fight hard 
for every gamo.
Tho comploto schodulo Is as fol
lows :
April 17-18Wost Virginia Univer
sity, away.
April 24-Buck noli, horo.
May IPitt, away.
May 2Juniata, hero.
May GGrovo City, horo.
May 8Juniata, away.
May liDelaware, away.
May 10Gettysburg, away.
May 15Pitt, hero.
May 10St. Donavonturo, horo. 
May 20Pitt on neutral grounds. 
May 22Grovo City, away.
May 2!)Bethany, horo.
Carnegio Tech lost to W. & J. Fri
day night, on tho latters court by tho 
score of 26-16. Tho gamo was nolthor 
oxciting nor fast, although at timos 
rough. The first half of tho game was 
very listless; tho Tartans were not 
playing aggrossivo ball and tho Presi
dents woro not extending themselves. 
Tho result was a low score for the 
half, which endod 10-4 iu favor of tho 
home team.
At tho beginning of tho second half 
the Skibos jumped into the race and 
with the 11 uo floor work of Jimmy 
Robertson caused the enemy much 
trouble. The Plaid was unable to ad
vance far because of the close guard
ing of tho Red and Black aggregation. 
Jimmy Andorson was closely watched 
by Thomas, who broke up many a 
budding attack.
During the greater part of tho gamo 
the Tartans fed to Jimmy Anderson, 
but when they changed tactics showed 
to hotter advantage, due to the close
ness with which Andy was guarded.
Tho game was much closer than tho 
score indicates, tho Presidents cor
ing four field goals in the last few 
minutes of play. The men on tho 
Carnegie team aro practicing hard in 
ordor to give tho same team a bet
tor run for the honors in their game 
tomorrow night in the new Sklho gym. 
Rood and Robertson featured tor tho 
Skibos, while Carlin did good work for 
tho Red and Black. Tho linup:
W. & J.26 Carnegio Tech16
Wild................... F....................Aiulersn
Eaton................. F.......................Matter
Thomas................. C.....................Mefort
Carlin.................. G.........................Road
Frledorlchs........ G..........................Rood
The second game played in the new 
gymnasium ended rather disastrously 
for the Tartan cagers last Thursday 
evening when they emerged on the 
short end of a 26-23 score in the strug
gle with Westminster.
The result was in the nature of a 
shock and a surprise to most wit
nesses of the battle, considering the 
wonderful showing the Skibos dis
played against the Pitt Panther a 
couple of weeks before. The team 
did not look like the same one that 
fought Pitt to a standstill.
In all fairness to the Westminster 
team it must be said that they pre
sented a classy aggregation, one that 
left nothing to be desired in the way 
of passingr guarding and team play. 
They won because they played the 
better basket ball.
At the' outset it looked like a Car
negie victory. Anderson and Mefort 
caged field goals, taking the lead. It 
was not until the final minutes of the 
first half that Westminster, by some 
clever foul goal shooting, was able to 
forge ahead. The half ended with the 
visitors leading, 14 to 12. The second 
half was bitterly fought, first on=t side 
leading and then the other. The 
count was tied at several stages. In 
the closing minutes, nowevor, Hetra 
and Logan caged field goals, securing 
a lead which the Tartans were not 
able to overcome.
Captain Jimmy Anderson was able 
to keep the Skibos in tho running 
throughout the game bv his accuracy 
in long shots. He thrilled the crowd 
several times by spectacular field 
goals from the middle of the floor, 
caging six of them. Each team ran 
up a total of eight double-deckers, but 
the visitors were more adept on the 
foul line. Westminster made eleven 
foul goals out of nineteen attempts, 
while the best the Tartans could do 
was six out of the same number of 
chances.
The lineup:
Tech23 Westminister2G
Anderson............ F........................Hetra
Matter.................. F......................Claary
Mefort.................. C.......................Logan
Mohrman............ G. ........Goldstrolim
PLEBES LOSE HARD GAME 
TO KISKI PREPS, 38-26
Traveling down to Saltsburg on 
Saturday tho Plobe team mot defeat 
at the hands of tho husky Iviski 
live by tho score ol 38 to 26.
It was & well played and ovon 
gamo right up to the last quarter. 
Both teams played good basket ball 
and Xouglit hard right to the end of 
tho game. The Tartans took the
lead in tho scoring, but did not hold 
it for long. The score at the end 
of thq third quarter was 18 to 21 
in favor of Iviski and the final spurt 
led1 by Gavor, Iviski's sure-shot right 
guard, put them way ahead of tho 
Plobes.
Lynch at forward led tho scoring 
Tor tho Plebes while Snethon at cen
ter and Levinson at guard both ac
counted foi two field goals.
Lynch .....................1'................ Altaffer
Plummer ...............F.................... Littol
Snethon .................C................... Ullom
Levinson ..............G................. Goven
Forbes ...................G........... Yukmonlc
The Pitt Junior Girls finally became 
the victors in the gaine' with the Car
negie Junior Girls. The Plaid tossers 
took the lead early in the game but 
were unable to hold the fast Pitt team 
during the last half. Again in this 
game a guard, Miss 'Helen Daugherty, 
was the star player.
Lineup:
Pitt Juniors25 Car. Juniors12
M. Austin.......... F.................L.Snyder
M. Kammer........ F.................M. Cook
M. Aiken............. C...............M. Markey
B. Warnock... S. C(> ..........R. Morin
E. Zeigler.......... G. \ ..H. Daugherty
E. Seville.......... G.................M. McFall
Field goalsKammer' 6, Austin 5, 
Cook 2 (one overhead goal) Snyder 2. 
Foul goalsKammer 3 out of 4, Sny
der 3 out of 5, Cook 0 out of 1. Sub
stitutionsTaylor for Cook, Stuemphle for McFall.
COACH JOHN IRWIN
Some of the Pittsburgh sporting writers have been prone to blame John 
Irwin for the non-success of the Carnegie Tech Plebe team. We are grieved 
to state tliarour old friend, Bill Peat, has been one of the most unjust in this 
respect.
We refer to a certain article which intimated that Irwin had plenty of 
good material and in spite of favorable conditions had failed to make an 
impressive showing with his Freshman floor squad.
The truth of the matter is this: Coach Irwin has not had good material, 
nor much of it. He has had the same trouble with scholastic inteligiblllty 
that every other Carnegie Tech coach has had no matter what the sport. 
This year on the Plebe squad, there has not been more than one man who 
was a really experienced basket ball player prior to coming to Carnegie.
Pittsburgh sporting writers please note that there are now three regulars 
on the Plebe team who are eligible to play. In making up a squad to take to 
Kiski last week Irwin was allowed ten men to take on the trip. As a matter 
of fact, there were, on the list of eligibles, only about seven who were even 
worth taking along on the trip. This is a condition that any high-grade 
technical school faces, and we are not crabbing.
But, writers of sports, that comment on John Irwin has aroused consid
erable ire among the students and members of the squad. Take our word 
for it that John Irwin is one of the most popular coaches on the campus this 
year; and if you hereafter have anything to say about the men connected 
with the athletics of the school, be sure that you know whereof you speak, 
lest you again arouse the wrath of the Scotch.
THIS WEEK IN SPORTS ;
The biggest home game this week will he that with W. & J. tomorrow 
night in the new gym. The game will be cnlled at 8:00 P. M. and there will 
be no preliminary. The charge will be $1-25 for reserved seats, or admis
sion fee with student tickets.
On the 29th, Carnegie will play Grove City at the latters court. Tho 
next night, West Virginia Wesleyan will bo met in the new gym. This game 
will be called at 8:30 and) will be preceded by a gamo between tho Plebes 
and Beaver High School team. The preliminary will be called at 7:30.
To bo collogo bred moans a four? 
year loaf, requiring a groat doal of 
dough, as well as plenty of crust.
The game between the Pitt Fresh
man girls and the Carnegie Plebe 
girls was a fine exhibition of basket 
ball. Both teams had excellent team
work and seemed to be evenly 
matched in the first half. In the"second half of the game the Pitt girls 
forged ahead of the Tartans and the 
game ended with the score 28-15 in 
favor of the Pitt girls.
Lineup:
Pitt Freshies28 Car. Plebes15
E. Rauche.......... F. ____N. Kraeling
R. 'Stultz............ F. ............A. Ribblet
D. Russell.......... C..................M. Baker
V. Shakarean.. S. C.........G. Connors
J. McClure.......... G...................E. Clark
J. Mathuson____ G. .............L. Svarek
Field goalsStultz 7, Kraeling 6, 
Haller 3, Tufts 2. Foul goalsStultz, 
3 out of 6; Kraeling, 3 out of 4; Tufts 
1. SubstitutionsTufts for Rasclie, 
Haller for Tufts, McElhanny for Mc
Clure, Dawson for Svorek, Fundenburg for Dawson.
CAN YOU HAIL CARNEGIE?
Tho Singor Pen & Gift Shop In the 
Jenkins Arcade wlll give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
E^VER GO ON THE WARPATH?
FRANK- BROTHERS
Large homo, excellent loca
tion, every modern convenience, 
$10,000 onnh will handle, the 
rest on your own terms. For 
appointment onll Thomas MeCnffrey Compnny, Fluke 0987 
before signing your new lenso.
Robertson.......... G
Score by periods
Te'ch ......................
Westminster ........
Field goalsAnderson 6, Mefort 2, 
Hetra 4, Cleary, Logan 2, Goldstrolim. 
Foul goalsTech, 6 out of 19; West
minster, 11 out of 19. Substitutions 
Beede for Robertson, McMeekln for 
Cleary, Reed for Matter, Robertson 
for Beede. RefereeBuck Baird. Um
pireWestlake.
Shoe satisfaction means 
style and worth.
November 22, tho open dato on our 
1924 football schedtilo, has at last 
boon lillod. On this date tho huskies 
of the Quantico Marinos will travel 
up from Virginia to play Carnegio at 
Forbes Field.
The Marinos playod tho University 
of Michigan at Ann Arbor last your 
on November 10. Tills ovont marked 
the dedication o ftlio Now Yost Field 
House, and was heralded as ono of 
the great society ovonts of tho soason.
The team will bring a largo poppy 
dologatlon, with several bands, which 
will parade boforo tho gamo. Tho 
Marines aro ono of tho big drawing 
cards of the oast, and by scheduling 
them tho Plaid Is giving Pittsburgh 
fans one of the best attractions of tho 
season.
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
Exhibit Shops In all tho larger 
cltloo.
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLES BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?
AssuranceStodlly Incrcaiilng Halen 
each a it c c c o d 1 n n year 
plainly Indicate the uni
versity man' approval of 
John Ward Men'ti SWoch. 
A variety of loots, pattern 
and letherH to meet every 
need w II he tilt own by 
D. T. Kirkpatrick at
Smples pppt lb b^ck ^t & ywu!
Wherover there lu a banking 
center this bank hi known. 
Those travelorn availing 
thomoolvos of Mellon letters 
of oredlt, or travelers cheoks 
are assured of tho recogni
tion which follows Identifica
tion with well and favorably 
known banking Interests.
SECOND CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
announces a
Free Lecture on Christian Science
------by------
BICKNELL YOUNG, C. S. B., OF CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
Member of the Board of Lectureship of the Mother Church 
The First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 1, 1924, 8:15 
North Side Carnegie Music Hall, Ohio Street, Near Federal Street 
You and Your Friends are Cordially Invited to Attend.
Jr., of 400 Hiapton avonuo, Wilkinsburg., Tho other members of the team 
aro Charles W. Hathaway of Wosleyvlllo, Lylo O. Hughes of Now Caatlo, 
John I). Jaronia of Carnegio and Col
in Mcllnnls, Jr., of Boavor, Pa.
Captain Knight predicts that tho 
Carnoglo team will malco a favorable 
showing In tho final results. A cup 
will bo prosontod to tho wlnnlg 
team. Tho trophy will bo perpetual, 
any one Institution winning it tliroo 
years In succession to retain It per
manently. Individual gold medals 
are also offered to each member of 
the winning team. Teams from every 
college in the country, having It. O. 
T. C. units, have boon invited to en
ter the competition.
R.O.T.C. Rifle Team Has 
Good Chance For Cup
SKIBO INN
Saturday, March 1
and
Monday, March 3The Reservo Officers Training 
Corps at Carnegie 1ms entered a 
team of sovon men In the National 
Rifle Competition for the William 
Randolph Heart trophy according to 
an accounceniont from Colonel T. II. 
Cunningham. The entire team Is 
made up of Pennsylvanians, includ
ing John J. Murray of 2G1 Fisk street, 
and R. D. Gaylor of 5017 Forbes 
street, Pittsburgh, and A. G. Wilson,
O^kl^nd S^vpngs & 
Trust Cw.
DAVIES and HUGHES
MENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Next To Strand Theater Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital ------- $300,000.00
Surplus ------- $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1880. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jos. P. Finher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
c/ic
BIIANROSS
$9
i INTRAMURAL BASKETBALL ] - ----------------- -------------...__________________________________________i
Store In NcwYork,Brooklyn,Newark, 
and Philadelphia  Acldre for Mall 
Orders, 121 Duanc'St., New York City
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
. ................ 2 | Delta Chi Rho.
LEAGUE STANDING
Games.
?Alpha Tau Omega 
?Forfeiture.WHEYSTeam.
Acacia ...................
Alpha Tau Omega 
Kappa Sigma Rho
McGill ...................
Beta Sigma Rho . 
Delta Upsilon ...
Beta Theta Pi----
Delta Chi Rho ...
What a whale of a difference 
lust a few cents make ! 
Take it home to 
the kids.
Have a packet In 
your pocket for an 
ever-ready treat.
A delicious confec
tion and an aid to \ the teeth, appetite, 
M digestion.
Is Taking the Country By Storm
A complete set In bright color, *> 
144 title, 110 counters, 8 racks,
2 dice, book of ruleH and in- J) M
struction; any one can learn  I
tho name in ten minutes. It's M
very fascinating. All in at
tractive box, sent prcpnld on II
receipt of 1.00 (Canada 25c
extra).
T^ble Cwvers
Very Attractive Pluck Sateen W&EJ..
Mnh-.Tong Table Cover, with ft 
colored dragon designs, adjust- u) Mable to any size card table; 10  B
counter pockets, striking colored stitched edges. Extraordinary m 
value. Special
prlco_________________________
COMBINATION OFFER
We wlll send prepaid ono complete Mah
jong set and tftblo cover as doscrllxid 
above on receipt of
Chlnn-Amerlcan Importing Co. 
Ill West 08th street New York
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
..................16 | Kappa Sigma .........
..................23 | Kappa Epsilon ____
.................21 j Woodlawn Club ...
..................18 j Sigma Epsilon Phi..
..................29 i Lota Sigma Delta..
LEAGUE STANDING
Games. W.
Scobell .........................
Sigma Epsilon Phi ... 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Sobell ...........................
Kappa Epsilon ...........
Team.
Scobell ..............
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Kappa Epsilon ........
Kappa Sigma ............
Woodlawn .................
Sigma Epsilon Phi ..
Delta Phi Delta ........
Iota Sigma Delta___
^sealed in its Purity Package
FEDERAL LEAGUE 
Reoults of Games Played.
.................20 j Welsh ....
......................1.3 I Theta XI .,
..................32 Boss .........
.................. 2 Boss ........
.................311 Welsh ....
Sigma Nu ..........
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Delta Tau Delta. 
Henderson .... 
Delta Tau Delta 
Forfeiture.Aufhammer & Evans
LEAGUE 8TANDING
Games.Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
11 the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette 
and FATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.
Team.
Pi Kappa Alpha ,
Sigma Nu ............
Delta Tau Delta 4
Tbeta Xi .............
Delta Mu ............
Welsh ...................
Henderson ..........
Boss .....................

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1924
1ALUMNI PAGE
. -i
Field of the College of Industries
By Director J. T. Morrlo.
What next?" YM tho (juonUon con
fronting tlio boy graduating from high 
school. , Emffioyment or more train
ing, work or collogo? For tho hoy 
who docldos to cqnilnuo his education 
tho Collego of InduBtrloH of Carnoglo 
offers a now and attractive opportun
ity; especially for tlio hoy who de
sires to on tor tho Industrlal-commorclal Hold, who alms to own and con
duct a business demanding technical 
skill and knowledge, who wants to 
do" things, to occupy position of 
control and mSnagement In InduHtry.
The vast development of manufac
turing has created a vocation or pro
fession which 1b executive In typo and 
requiring a considerable amount of 
technical Information. The number 
of positions for men of this typo of 
training Is very largo; to ono designer 
there may bo a hundred men needed 
as operators and managers of tho 
manufacturing oBtahllnhmont which 
may place on tho market tho product 
of the Inventor.
Thoso men aro mon of loaderBhlp 
and should bo prepared to take places 
of loaderBhlp, not only In business but 
alao in civic and social affairs. The 
captains of industry of today havo 
grown tip with the business. Their 
training Is comprehensive because 
they have followed the growth of tho 
Industry. Tho call now Js for trained 
men with general and technical edu
cation broad enough to grasp1 the sci
entific knowledge of the englneor and 
with a practical training, thorough 
enough to enter the various lines of 
Industry, to construct, to operate, or 
to manage that which tho engineer 
has designed.
In selecting the subjects of Instruc
tion tho faculty had in mind ilrst: A 
thorough grounding In the mechanical 
operations of each Hold of study, ac
quired through Intensive shop courses, 
strosslng procoBses rather than skill, 
Bupplomontod by studies In production
methods, ostalmatlng costs, organiza
tion of plants, etc. Second: Related 
sciontllie courses which aro funda
mental to tho technical knowledge or 
necessary to tho study of technical 
subjects. General Chemistry Is fol
lowed by courses In which tho chem
ical proper tl OB of materials used Jn 
a particular Industry, e.g. tho printer 
studios Inks, papers, etc. Tho builder 
studies cement, paints. General 
Physics Is studied throughout the 
Sophomoro year and Mechanics 
thrbugh the Junior year preceded by 
a Sophomore course In Calculus. In
dustrial History In tlio Freshman yoar 
and Economics In tho Sophomore yoar 
form a. basis for lator commercial 
courses. Third: General courses
which are necessary and highly deslrablo for every collego trainod man. 
English Composition and English Lit
erature are foundational to tho Btudy 
of 'Specifications, Letters and Re
ports, American Government, Com
mercial Law, Credit and Banking, In
dustrial Management, Psychology ana 
Salesmanship aro prominent subjocts 
in this group.
It is clearly Impossible even in a 
four year curriculum to Include in
struction in all cultural and profes
sional studies, In both theory and 
practice. Wo aim to follow a middle 
course, which wlll train tho student in 
fundamentals and acquaint him with 
good "practice". Tho success of our 
graduates and their opinions given In 
after years of experience conllnns this 
policy.
Although these courses ore of engi
neering rank they aro distinctly dif
ferent from tho courses usually given 
In engineering colleges. The Indus
tries courses havo a practical shop 
training background and definite iloldb 
of Btudy not occupied by other courses 
given on the campus. Later we wlll 
dlBcuss the Held, tho aims and the 
opportunities for graduates of the re
spective courses.
j fo YOU KNOW? j I THE TELESCOPE ]
Tho now Alma Mater?
That tho Mortar Board Is holding 
it bridge party Saturday afternoon 
at Forbos Hall?
That Miss Lols McCoombs, assist
ant Instructor In tho Biology Depart
ment, M. M., is now recovering from 
a mild attack of scarlot Iovor?
That Ilio Dormitory! Council in tho 
Mon's Dorms Is assorting Itself?
Tliat tho ICollor Memorial has conio 
info oxtstonco?
That tlio Carnoglo Tartan Is start
ing a sorlos of articles for tho bone* 
HI, ol' everybody to ho written by de
partmental hoods, explaining the 
work: oi' tho various departments?
That tho Carnegio Clans A lt.1'1 ac
tive?
Plans Are in Progress 
For M.M. Alumnae Party
Further preparations for the Mar
garet Morrlslon Alumnae theater 
parly are.in progress, and tho oommttiee In charge has docldod that It bn 
held In the Little Theater during the 
first week of March. The exact date 
wlll ho announood later.
The committee had hoped that tlio 
party might be given during tho pro
duction of a comedy, hut since that is 
not possible, the play chosen Is '".l'Ilo 
Thunderbolt."
Gundy will be sold during the per- j 
formaiico for tlio bonollt of tlio 
Alumnae Scholarship Fund, and Mr. 
Mildred Spencer; chairman, has asked 
for contributions of homo-made candlOB.
EVER, GO ON THE WARPATH?
THETA SIGMA AWARDS
SCHOLARSHIP GRANT
Miss Rebecca M. Pontius, of 3GG 
Gross street, this city has been award
ed a $100 grant from the Theta Sigma 
Sorority Alumnae of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, as a reward for 
high scholastic attainments, soys on 
announcement. Theta Sigmo, which 
wos a local sorority in the Morgoret 
Morrison Carnegie College, several 
years ago, offered the gront to wliichTlio Cions ore now having a chonce 
to justify themselvoB through the 
columns of tho (Carnegie Tartan.
It should bo romombered that the 
fact that ono, two or oven three 
clans, aro active, does not neces
sarily prove tho anonymous accuser 
wrong. All secretaries havo recently 
received lettors from tho Alumni Oi
llco asking them to submit a stato
meli!, summing up tho world done by 
tho Clan In. the timo of Its existence 
or during tho last yoar.
Clan members should romomber 
that there is nothing moro discourag
ing than, being Ilio man who does 
tho work with no support from tho 
roat,
Your Clan shorotary noods your 
holi) In preparing such a statement. 
Give It to him.
Lot us show this bird, that he is 
all wrong.
All Alumni will bo Interested1 In 
tho sorlos of articles which The Car
negie Tartan is running] for tho ben
efit of alumni, who may wish to toll 
some friends what sort of work is 
'being done ab collose other than the 
one attended.
Wo hope ilio series may bo well re
ceived and that tho arliolos wll be 
preserved lor uso In tho futuro. A 
collego paper shows the spirit of the 
college concerned to an outsider 
much clearer than any other ono 
thing. Lot your II. S, friends read 
it.
Porhaps it will bo a surprise to 
Alumni to hear of tho tours mady 
by Dr. Sarto to the socondary schools 
of tho country.
Possibly, ho would come to your 
city if ho' were asked to do so.
DR. BAKER ELECTED TO 
EXECUTIVE
Prosldont Bakor of Carnegio was 
elected to sorvo on the executive com
mittee of tho Asaoclatlon of Collego 
Presidents of Pennsylvania for the 
coming term, at a mooting of educa
tors In Harrisburg recently.
Other members of the committee 
are John H. McCracken of Lafayette, 
president, and Mr, I. II. Brumbaugh of 
Juniata.
"HCLANS ARENT 
USELESS, SAYS 
J. M. GUTER, 16
DR. BARTO MAKES 
NUMEROUS TRIPS
Clan Member Cites Facts to 
Piove a Contention That 
Anonymous Writer Speaks 
Without Knowing Facts
High Schools of Tri-State 
Section Learn About 
Carnegie Tech
Late last winter Dr. Barto of the 
Committee on Admission hegan visit
ing high schools with the purpose of 
interesting students In coming to Car
negie, as woll as of giving to the ad
mission committee some idea of the 
character of the schools from which 
the Btudents come. This year, at Dr. 
Boker's request, Dr. Barto lias been 
visiting private schools In addition to 
high schools. The territory which lie 
covers during Ills trips Includes Penn
sylvania, Ohio, Michigan, Washington, 
Maryland, West Virginia and southern 
New York. Among the private schools 
are Mercersburg, Gettysburg, High
land Hall, Penn Hall and Bellefonte 
Academy. In choosing towns the 
larger are selected, since they have 
a larger available supply of students.
Dr. Barto , finds that the' standards 
of the schools vary according to the 
wealth of the communities, the wealth
ier the town the more and better the 
courses ofTored in the schools. One 
outstanding foaturo Is the overcrowd
ing which prevails everywhere in*the 
high schools of today, and which un
doubtedly affects tho quality of the 
students' work. There seems to be 
no relief In sight, as the proportion of 
studonts entering the high schools Is 
Increasing each year, and very few 
school buildings are being erected.
Results Indicate that the work in 
which Dr. Barto is engaged is very 
successful. On visiting high schools 
tho second time ho finds that the stu
dents really know a lot about Carnogle Tech and aro Interested In 
hearing more. He Is impressed by tho 
good reputation which our Institution 
enjoys In all sections which he visit
ed.
As to tho part which the clans are 
playing in Bonding students to their 
Alma Mator, Dr. Barto thinks they 
havo oxorled somo Influence hut not 
so much as Is desirable. Tills Is duo 
partly to tho fact that our alumni as
sociation Is not very old, and tho 
clans aro not Btrongly organized oxcopt in the larger cities. If tho matter 
wore presented to tho clans and thoir 
help sollcitod, they would certalnlyrespend.
WANTS GAME IN N. Y
HELFENBEIN IS FELLOW
AT MUSICAL INSTITUTE
Oscar T. Helfenbein, graduate of the 
music department, Is now at the New 
York Institute of Fine Arts under the 
provision of a fellowship awarded to 
him by the Fuillard Musical Founda
tion of New York for piano study.
Mr. Helfenbein was recommended 
for the appointment by the faculty of 
the Department of Music.
CARNEGIE ALUMNUS 
GAINS PROMOTION
The plans of hundreds of Alumni 
to return home during May are now 
being laid. Are you ono of them?
ever worthy student the faculty chose 
to appoint.
Miss Pontius is a Sophomore in the 
Department of Household Economics, 
of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
THE constant 
smoker finds 
in Melaclirino 
Cigarettes a deli
cacy of flavor of 
which he never 
tires.
ORIGINALMEIACHRINC)
^ "The One Cigarette Sold the World Over j
MUSIC GRADUATE NOW 
ORGANIST IN CHURCH
That graduo too or tho music De
portment of tho Collogo of Fino Arto 
oro continuing In suocossful careers 
In evident from recent reports.
diario Ioorson of tho class of 
1022, In now the organist at tho Sec
ond Prosby-torian Church of Wllklnsburg, and a short timo ogo gave o 
concert thoro before tho Organ Guild 
of Pittsburgh. Mr. Pearson received 
his B. A. degree al, Carnoglo in 1921. 
and his M. iy tho following year. 
Last summer tho Art Society of 
Pittsburgh bent him to the Foritolnbloou Music School in France, where 
ho studied organ with Widor, who is 
probably tho most famous organ 
teacher living today.
During the Christmas holidays, 
Mr. Pears.011 gave a talk before the 
music teachers convention about his 
experiences as a music student In 
France..
MUSIC DEPT. HOLDS
SUCCESSFUL DANCE
A little pleasure now and tlien
Is relished even by musical men.
And women also, Shakespeare or 
Lord Byron or whoever penned the 
above sentiment might have added, 
had he attended the informal dance 
held by the Music Department of 
Arts School last Thursday night.
It was more than o danceit wos a 
real get together frolic in which fifty 
or more couples of students and fac
ulty got better acquainted with each 
other.
Tho stately Ensemble Room, which 
hitherto had boon accustomed to Bach 
and Handol, shook its walls to tho 
strains of Irving Berlin and Eddie 
Cantor as interpreted by tho William 
Ponn Hotel Orchestra.
Punch and wafers woro consumod 
In surprisingly large quantities, which 
just goes to prove that musical folk 
usually take the coke.
Altogether, it. was an enjoyable 
evening and anothor like It. wont, go 
amiss.
Compliments
or
ALUMN IPP
Below we print still another answer 
to tho much discussed letter which 
appeared in tho Issue of January 22.
Mr. Guter is extremely frank in his 
answer and' shows an evident desire 
to hear tho other fellows views. It 
iB obvious that only in that way can 
tho discussion benefit anyone.
We wish especially to point out tho 
statement: "No doubt many of tho
crltlclsme Voiced arp prevalent." 
That Is the crux of the matter. Al
though the letter In question when it 
reached this office did not have a 
signaturo as ordinarily required, it 
was felt tyiat the statements made, 
were voicing a so widespread belief 
that the only) way to combat It was 
to trash the questions out.
To the Clans it is of especial in
terest to note that the discussion is 
followed with intense Interest by the 
undergrads from whom the forces of 
tho Clans must be augmented. It is 
very desirable that undergraduates 
should realize that the Clans are' 
definitely For the Good of Carnegie 
while they are yet at school.
The experience of Clan Organizers 
prow the difficulty of convincing 
tliOBfc who are skeptics at the time of 
graduation.
On the above ground we are basing 
our publication of the afore mention
ed! letter.
Answers to another of Mr. Outers 
arguments will be found in the up
per two corners or this page. We 
trust they may be of value to the 
Clan members and their friends.
YE ALUMNI EDITOR.
My doar Mr. Simpson:
What is the answer?.
The article In tho recent issue of 
The Tartan captioned: Clans Are 
Useless/' certainly requires an an
swer.
No doubt nianyi oC the criticisms 
voiced are prevolant. At tho same 
time the writer of the article surely 
Is not thoroughly familiar with his 
subject, or else tho criticisms would 
not be so swooping, and Ills remarks 
would bo moro charitable.
Wo all know that there aro many 
desiod, and as yet, unaccomplished 
ends for tho Clans, thoso active in 
thoso organizations, liowevor, also 
know tho dllTieultlos that must be 
overcome.
1 liopo tho writer of tho above men
tioned article 1b a member of a Clan, 
and has given time and offort to this 
work. If ho Is not an active Clan 
member, tho orltlclHin Is unwar
ranted.
Tho question Is asked, What aro 
tho Clans really doing for the 
schoolV Not all that could be dosirod1, It Is true, but still, considera
ble under the circumstances.
1 can only speak for tho Now York 
Clan of which I am a member. Wo 
havo kept after the newspapers until 
now Carnoglo athletic events are reg
ularly reported. The folks at the 
school havo also done their part in 
accomplishing this.
A few years ago it was Impossible 
to find even the score of a Carnegie 
football game in a paper here, where
as, now an account of the game is 
usually given.
The New York Clan was one of the 
biggest factors in securing the funds 
for the new gymnasium, and was par
ticularly active with regard to the 
finances and policy of the school, so 
far as it was all lowed to be.
A yearly booklet is published call
ed the Tech Index, which gives the 
name, address and occupation of 
every Tech man in this district. Car
negie affairs are talked of at every 
meeting, and' the annual banquet is 
held for the purpose of having offi
cials of the school give us an outline 
of the years activities.
WE CANNOT DISSEMINATE IN
FORMATION RELATIVE TO THE 
SCHOOL UNLEoSt WE RECEIVE IT 
BTFORE IT IS OLD. We find it 
hard to interest high school athletes 
in a school of which they hear very 
little and which can offer none of the 
so-called inducements: One footballl game in this district would help 
tremendously, and yet, there does not 
seem to be any particular disposition 
to arrange such a game. We must 
havo ono to arouse* on Interest in our 
othlotes bore.
Such o gomo might not be os groat 
a financial succoss os a gome In 
Pittsburgh, but tho advertising would 
ho worth moro than can bo ostimntodi
HELP THE CLANS AND THEY 
WILL HELP THE SCHOOL!
The chief difficulty is not with jtlio 
Clans themselves, but with the wholo 
Clan organization. This -organization 
was fostered by the school and the 
control and direction must always 
come from tho school.
The main contention of tho article 
to which I refer, is that propaganda 
pertaining to the school and its ac
tivities is not. taken care of properly 
by the Cions. If all this propoganda 
is desired, then the central organi
zation at the school in charge of the 
Clan work should furnish facts and 
data in proper form, and co-operate 
with the Clans more closely than 
heretofore.
It appears that the officials at CarEngineering Graduate of 1919 
Chosen Efficiency Man 
by Larg  Concern
When the notice of The Carnegie 
Tartan was brought to the fact that 
Mr. C. Dickinson Mills, Science '19, 
had been made Efficiency Engineer by 
the Carnegie Steel Company in its 
coal Utilization Projects at New Cas
tle, Pa., we immediately scouted a 
story and went and got it. It follows:
Mr. Mills, it seems, while yet a stu
dent here spent one summer doing 
some surveying work for the Ligonler 
Valley Railroad Company, for which 
lie was very highly commended. As 
a matter of course, Mr. Mills had 
made certain connections during this 
work, and he was therefore not loath 
to return to the same region upon his 
graduation.
1-Ie was then engaged to lay out! 
some Yard Switches from the mkln 
line of the Carnegie Steel Companys 
Railway. The quality of this work as 
well as tho dispatch with which it 
was completed attracted the attention 
of high company officials. As a result 
Mr. Mills was put into more respon
sible position until he now is em
ployed 011 a plan of reducing the holl
ers used by the company at one of its 
plants from 78 to 26. Tills involves 
tho scrapping of boilers and replace
ment to a sum of $1,000,000, which Is 
not bad for a man five years out of 
school next June.
It is of interest to add that' Miss 
McCleary whom some Alumnae will 
remember has now changed her name 
to Mrs. C. Dickinson Mills, and the 
couple are residing in New Castle, 
Pa.
SEEN THE ESKIMO BABY?
ARCHITECTS WIN HONORS
IN WARREN COMPETITION
Field of the College of Fine Arts
By H. K. McGoodwIn, Acting Director.
In the Atlantic Monthly for Febru
ary, 1924, is a very remarkable paper 
entitled Tho American Malady, by 
Mr. Langdon Mitchell, son of the fa
mous neurologist, Dr. Weir Mitchell. 
It presents a critical survey of Amer
ican civilizationespecially as to the 
results it has produced in the way of 
leading us to a sane enjoyment of 
life; of leading us to appropriate-and 
enjoy the finest things that have been 
made by God and menthat is to say, 
the beauties of nature and the beau
ties of art. It is interesting to note 
that in his diagnosis as to the nature 
of what he calls "the American ma
lady this critic things the most strik
ing symptom is that Americans have 
not had, or have lost, the delight in 
beauty which has distinguished those 
peoples whose civilizations have 
reached the greatest perfection, and 
which have bequeathed the most 
worthy things to succeeding genera
tions.
This estimate is not made in a spir
it of gratuitous fault-finding. It is 
difficult to see how conditions could 
have been different among a people 
whose first centuries had to be devot
ed to the conquest of an unexplored 
continent and to problems of physical 
well being. This conquest and these 
problems may now be regarded as 
measurably finished. It is only just 
that we should judge ourselves and 
be judged, hereafter, as highly civil
ized or not, according to our ability 
to appreciate and enjoy beauty. It is 
this ability that brings the serenest 
joy into men's lives; that most clearly 
distinguishes civilized men from bar
barians.
A grave responsibility, therefore, 
rests upon those engaged in teaching 
young people who aspire to become 
professional artists. A shrewd criti
cism such as that above referred to, 
puts clearly before us our responsibil
ity for the effective use of power to 
guide forces that may control the 
characteristics of our people.
At Carnegie we have two factors 
which may be expected to do much 
for the elevation of the tastes, the 
enjoyments and the ideals of the peo
ple of this community and of the na
tion; the Library, Museum and Gal
leries, and our College of Fine Arts, 
The College of Fine Arts is an especi
ally unique organization, embracing 
as it does professional instruction in 
all of the principal fine artsarchi
tecture, painting, sculpture, music and 
the dramaas well as in some of the 
minor arts. So far as we know, it 
is the only school in America devoted 
to instruction of 1 professional artists 
in all of these fields. Its famenot 
so extended as it will beis yet begin
ning to be widespread. Its influence 
has already been strongly felt, not 
only in this community but in many 
others. It maj& be doubted whether 
the people of our community appre
ciate its value and distinction.
It is a hopeful sign of appi*eciation 
of the kind I have indicated, that the 
editors of the Carnegie Tartan have 
considered it desirable to devote 
space in their columns to spreading 
knowledge of the work of the College 
of Fine Arts. A hope that the infor
mation published may lodge in many 
a quarter where it will produce good 
results; that perhaps it may inspire 
men and women of influence and re
sources to assist in the development 
of the work of the College; that per
haps it may inspire some young men 
and women of latent genius with the 
understanding that the accumulation 
of fortunes and of other forms o 
physical prosperity is less notable, 
worthy and desirable than fine accom
plishments in- the world of the arts.
(Note:Brief description of the 
work of the several departments of 
the College of Fine Arts are to follow 
in later issues.)
MUSIKERS MAKE FOUR STOPS
ON OHIO JOURNEY
(Continued From Page One.) 
negle Tech students who placed In tho 
Class B project, for The Entrance 
to a Stadium was won by J. E. Tillotson, of Sherman, N. Y., with a First 
Mention Placed award. First Men
tions in this problem were won by 
Harry I. Lynch, 81G Wallace avenue, 
Wilklnsburg, Pa.; Paul H. Sload, Co
lumbia, Pa.; Adrian M. Ham, Niles, 
Mich.; and Samuol Fiordelise, Youngs
town, Ohio.
The following Carnegie students re
ceived Second Mentions: William S.
Forsyth, 74(5 Broughton street; Vic
tor G. Tilbrock, 55 Hawthorne street; 
R. R. Young, 128 Sprague avenue; 
Henry C. Llppincott, 5219 Baum' 
Boulevard; L. C. Osborn, 020 Hamil
ton road; Arthur F. Mulil, 1432 Kelton avenue; IJlrlch Sclioenberger, MO 
North Craig Btroot; Alfred II. Rous
seau, 003 Gettysburg street; and Vin
cent MacGowan, 2300 Braddock avo11110, Pittsburgh; .Tolin S. Douglas, 
Lima, Ohio; Clarence A. Lundqulst, 
New Britain, Conn.; M. A. Brace, 
Waterford, Pa.; fc. M. McMillin, Delaware, Ohio; Harold L. Carter, Altoona, 
Pa.; James R'. Reed, Erie, Pa.; Herbort W. Damon, Jr., Berea, Ohio; 
Frank J. Taylor, Sharon, Pa.; Glenwood A. Deacon, Lynchburg, Va.; E. 
Constantine, Columbia, Pa.; L. E. Swiger, Morgantown, W. Va.; Waynes F. 
Koppes, Elyria, Ohio; Julian P. Crowgey, Wytheville, Va.; A. M. Felstein. 
Toledo. Ohio; D. C. Doig, Wiflton, N. 
Y.; and Harding H. Thayer, New Cas
tle, Pa.
PRIZE OFFERED FOR
ESSAY ON CARNEGIE
(Continued From Page One.)
4. The Peace Palace at the Hague.
5. Some Research Achievements of 
the Carnegie Institution.
The essays must be signed by a 
pseudonym and a sealed envelope at
tached containing pseudonym and 
Avriters own name. Two of the judges 
will be from the Department of Eng
lish, named by the head of that De
partment and the third will be named 
by President Baker from outside the 
school.
The contest 5vill close April 30 and 
all essays should be turned into Col
onel Days Office by that time.
negie who might be expected to do 
this work, have so many other du
ties that4 tho Clan work has not the 
right-of-way.
While tho author of Clans Are 
Useless has certainly distorted the 
facts, there still is room for improve
ment.
My answer is that tlio Clans are 
far from osoless, but would bo more 
useful with moro guidance and co
operation from the school.
In closing 1 wish to sign my name 
and say that The Tartan should in 
slst on signatures to published ar
ticles.
Sincerely yours,
J. M. GUTER, '16.
The University Window Cleaners' 
Association^ founded in 1915 in the 
University of Colorado, is now estab
lished in 12 American colleges. Its 
essentials for initiation are a 
sponge, a white ladder, and a reputa
tion for speed and dexterity in wash
ing windows. Seems funny; must 
be similar to the Shifters.
(Continued From Page One.) 
South High School. The Akron con
cert given in the St. Vincents High 
School gave indications of being a 
repetition of the Orrville success, but 
for some reason the indications were 
false alarms, and the clubs once more 
lapsed back into their imitation grand 
opera manner. Saturday night was 
spent in Cleveland with a concert 
and dance at tho Calvary Presbyte
rian Churct.h 
The following members of the clubs 
made the trip: W. M. Aleshin, C. J.
Anderson, W. P. Bitler, B. Broudy, R. 
Beil, R. S. Carter, G. Dulin, J. Funk
huser, W. Gallagher, W. C. Gouglienour, J. Gicking, R. V. Horne, L. H. 
Harris, M. Inman, A. L. Johnson, R. 
Kredel, F. I-I. Ivitchell, W. F. Lyman, 
G. LeBaron, T. F. Loughrey, M. P. 
Mitchell, T. W. McCredit, P. E. Meyer, 
L. A. Marsharka, M. R. Mitchell, J. M.! 
Pelican, N. H. Poe, R. L. Roth, J.! 
Steen, R R. Litzler, L. Stummler, F. j 
R. Sack, J. R. Silverman, A. D. Scheinman, H. L. Thomas, F. Vogt, V. L. 
Wendlandt, C. N. Wild, C. Wliitmer, 
and A. L. Widern. A. S. Andrews 
made the trip as Tartan representa
tive.
CLEVELAND CLAN
The regular monthly luncheon of 
the Cleveland Women's Clan was 
held 011 Saturday, February 16. Miss
es Winifred Rice and Catherine Allen 
were the hostesses, and the luncheon 
was held at the latter home. There 
was a goodly? number present and 
everyone enjoyed taking over Carne
gie affairs and singing the new Alma 
Mater. The Clan attended en-masso 
the Carnegie Glee Club concert, give 
in the Calvary Presbyterian Church 
February 23. Those present at the 
meeting wore Georgia Clark, Jean 
Gray, Dorothy Harlow, Eveelyn Pier
son, Matha Foster, Maude Hainer 
Montgomery and son, Eleanor Clark 
Speaker and Jack and Eleanor Ann 
Speaker, Mrs. Lavinia Fowler, Mil
dred Lawrence and the hostesses.
I was awfully embarrassed this 
morning. I got a block from home 
before I noticed that I still had 011 
bedroom slippers.
"What did you do?
"I had to limp all the way home?
CAN YOU HAIL CARNEGIE?
FOUND
A fountain pen was found on the 
cut Wednesday. Owner may have 
the said pea by calling any afternoon 
at Table No. 50 in Room No. 200 of 
tho College of Arts and identifying 
same.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
We cTtfens Style Shop
Announces
February Sale of All Mens Furnishings
25% TO 35% REDUCTIONS 
A new Spring line of bow and four-in-hand ties has just been received 
and will be sold at the unusually low introductory price of one dollar.
CONNORS & CONWAY
3709 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
The way to get
the finest shave
The Hinge-Cap is a sure way of identifying 
Williams Shaving- Cream. And Williams, be
sides giving you the convenient Hinge-Cap, 
will improve your shave in three ways:
First, the lather is heavier and holds the 
moisture in against the beard. Quicker and 
more thorough softening of the beard results. 
Second, the razor glides more easily through 
the Williams-softened beard because Williams 
lather lubricates the skin. Lastly, an ingredient 
in Williams keeps the skin in good condition 
no matter how heavy your beard nor how 
frequently you shave. In addition, youll enjoy 
Williams because it is a pure, natural white 
cream without coloring matter of any kind. 
Ask for it.
7
Look for the 
Hinge-Cap
