FOOTBALL SATURDAY 
CARNEGIE VS. 
ALLEGHENYanwgir ITartan
JOIN THE Y. M. C. A. 
OCTOBER
25-2C-27
FOTB xvn. NO. 6CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, 'PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1922
Y.M.C.A. MEMBERSHIP DRIVE 
STARTS TO-DAY WITH TALKS 
AT ALL THREE ASSEMBLIES
Two Hundred and Fifty Solicitors Will 
Make Individual Canvass of Every 
Student in School. Drive 
Backed By Faculty
DAILY PROGRESS TO BE SHOWN
Technical Journal 
is Not Scientific
Articles Are of Interest to All 
Four Schools
The Y campaign for members opens today. Last year only a third of 
the students of Carnegie were members of the Y. The Y is one of the 
most active organizations on the campus. It is the Y that arranges the 
Senior Freshmen dinner for the incoming Plebes, it was the Y that was 
responsible lor the adoption of the Senior Councellor plan at Carnegie Tech. 
It is the Y that has arranged and will again arrange f6r your entertainment 
and food at the Penn State game. The Y, with the Y. W. C. A., was largely 
responsible for the weekly chapel services. For those unfortunate students 
who are unable to return home for Christmas, the Y furnishes amusement 
.and a big dinner. Can you afford not to. be connected with so live an organ
ization? Can you withhold your support from an organization so patiently 
working for and accomplishing so much for Carnegie?
The Y takes care of the inter-fra-**
ternity basket ball and baseball. The 
Y holds the get-acquainted smoker 
on registration nigbt, besides other 
smokers and stags throughout the 
school year. It takes care of the dis
tribution and care of the caps and 
gowns fo the Seniors at Commence
ment; it co-operates with the Student 
Employment bureau; it arranges free 
weekly swims.
It is hoped that the Y will have 
a clubroom in the new gymnasium.
The cbances for such a room are ex
tremely probable. This room will be 
fitted for general social activities and 
-will liave billard tables, lounging room, 
and reading material. It will be a 
general gathering place for all stu
dents with spare time on their hands.
There is no definite amount of due? 
that the Y asks you to pay. How
ever, it is attempting to raise $3,000 
in the membership campaign which 
opens today. This only means an 
average of two dollars per student,
whereas in other institutions of our 
 size and reputation the average 
amount raised by their Ys is $4.25 
per student. As an example of what 
other institutions are doing: In a twoday campaign the Y. M. C. A, at In
diana University raised $3,500 to car
ry cut this years "Y program. This 
is said to be the largest amount re
ceived from any single annual drive 
in the history of the school.
A committee of two hundred , and 
fifty men have been chosen to canvass 
the entire school. Each section of 
every class will have a member of 
its committee to canvass each indi
vidual member of that section. Jack 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Glee Club Has Hopes 
For Larger Turnout
Prospects of Trip East During 
Spring Vacation
Sunday afternoon, October 22, the 
Carnegie Glee Club met the rehearsal 
at 2:30 with an enrollment of 71 mem
bers. This is the biggest/ thing that 
has ever been attempted with a Glee 
Club. Prior to this time, a weeding 
out of the head wood was accomplish
ed by the third rehearsal, and the 
club had dwindled to an enrollment of 
.35 or 40. Mr. Edward Rheil says he 
thinks there is no dead wood this 
year and he is going to try to keep 
everyone of the 71 members who have 
reported. He is also sending out a 
call for 29 more men, so that the club 
bay be run up to the 100 mark. No 
tryouts are necessary, so the adminis
tration expects to have more men 
each week until the limit is reached. 
Competitive membership will start 
after the 100 mark has been attained.
The members are all working very 
hard, for there is a rumor that 100 
men cannot make the trips, and even 
50 men cannot go on the same trip. 
Therefore every man is frying to out
do his fellow. This promotes good 
singing and also attendance, for this 
latter is a big factor in the selection 
of the men to make the trips.
Each Sunday up to date the club 
learned a complete four-part choral 
number. They not only sang it clear 
through, but they even -went so far 
as to sing it unaccompanied. Nothing 
short of a professional organization 
has ever before attained this goal. 
The club is coming along splendidly, 
and if everything goes as it is now 
going, there w'ill be some real music 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Penn-State Special Ready
Arrangements have been made with 
the. Penn State Y. M. C. A. to feed 
the Carnegie Tech students at State 
College on the day of the game. Lunch 
and dinner will be provided at a very 
nominal price.
The Carnegie Special will leave 
Union Station at about 7:30 A. M., 
Saturday morning. The train will ar
rive at its destination shortly after 
12 noon. The return trip will begin 
at 7:30 P. M., and the special will ar
rive in Pittsburgh at about midnight.
Dont forget to have that $G.20 ready 
before Saturday, November 11. Tick
ets for the game will be handled 
through the Graduate Managers 
Office.
Carnegie is well known and in gen
eral the excellence of her publica
tions has been established. Thistle, 
Tartan and Puppetall are prominent 
among collegiate periodicals and the 
Carnegie Technical Journal is obliged 
to extend every effort in order to 
maintain in its field the same high 
standards which these other publica
tions have established in theirs.
We have the Tartan for news, the 
Puppet for humor, the Shilling for lit
erature and a Technical Journal for 
the treatment of technical subjects. 
Somewhere the mistaken idea origi
nated that the Journal was a purely 
engineering publicationsuch is not 
the case. The Journal is not a pam
phlet of a College of Engineering 
it is a publication of Carnegiea true 
four school paper.
Perhaps the word Technical has 
caused this impression; let no one be 
misled by it. The general reader is 
prone to fight shy of anything classi
fied as technical believing, that tho 
term applies only to deeply mathe
matical or highly theoretical subjects. 
Yet this is not necessarily true. The 
term may quite as well apply to art or 
business as to science. Carnegie is 
a technical collegeall the subjects 
taught here are of highly specialized 
and technical characterthis is as 
true of architecture or printing as it 
is of engineering. The Journal is 
technical to the extent that it may 
treat of just such subjects as are 
taught at Carnegieplus perhaps 
some that are not. At any rate the 
Journal is capable of presenting any 
achievement of Carnegie Tech, irro(Continued on Page Three.)
Students Are Requested 
To Keep on Dorm Walks
We are completing new walks and 
lawns around the Boys Dorms and 
hope to make this area develop into a 
real beauty spot.
This, can only be done with the 
hearty co-operation of the boys in the 
Dorms. The walks have been laid out 
to permit easy access to all the dif
ferent buildings, but we regret to note 
that some-are already cutting corners. 
This practice will ruin all we are at
tempting to accomplish. .
We will not place keep off signs 
on these lawns, but will ask that 
each and everyone of the occupants of 
the Dorms become a committee of one 
to see that visitors keep on the walks 
arid off the lawns.
This will require some effort, but 
everything worth while has required 
some additional B. T. U.s. Moses 
went from Egypt, Mahomet from 
Mecca, Caesar crossed the Rubicon, 
Cyrus, king of Persia, built the most 
famous military bridge across the Dardenelles, Hannibal cut a road across 
the Alps, Washington crossed the 
Delaware, and Tech. crossed W. & J.s 
goal, all with the. expenditure of ad
ditional, calories, b.t.oi.'s and kilo
watts. Take out your slide rule and 
estimate the additional units it re
quires to turn the corners instead of 
cutting.
ATTENTION SENIORS!
PICTURES FOR THISTLE 
TO BE TAKEN THIS WEEK
Thistle pictures are being taken 
this week in room 110-B Industries 
building every day from 12:30 to 5:00 
p. m. Sections will be assigned every 
afternoon, so keep in touch with your 
section leaders who will receive as
signments from the photographic edi
tor. Lets be prompt and dont cut 
your assignments without the excuse 
of sickness. Be there!
- Seniors will be notified as to time 
for their sittings by section leaders 
classes by bulletin boards, fraterni
ties by an individual in the fratern
ity.
SONG BOOK MAY BE 
OUT NEXT SEMESTER
Committee Issues Calls For 
More Songs; Book is 
Nearing Completion
The committee which has been 
working on the publication of the 
Book of Songs has come to the conclu
sion that it nas something very defin
ite accomplished. This is quite satis 
fying, for the students were wonder
ing what had happened to the book. 
The committee reports that it has 
been working its head off, collectively 
speaking, since the first of this year, 
and throughout the summer. Now 
they have a goodly number of songs 
ready for publication.
The Alma Mater, by J. Vic 
O'Brien, is full of pep and vim, but at 
the same time has a great deal of 
dignity and a beautiful tune. Tho 
students will be proud of it when they 
hear it.
We already know the new football 
song. Fight for the Glory of Car
negie, by Bob Schmertz, has met 
with immediate success on the campus, and is going to continue to sing 
through the mind of every Carnegie 
man and woman.
A big surprise is in 'line for those 
who have been in school two yoars or 
more, for music which was heard at 
that time will again be put into the 
limelight. The newer students will 
also have a treat, for this music is 
full of big "timbre.
The book, according to tho writers, 
may make its appearance on the Cam
pus by the next semesterat least 
that is the idea of the committee. The 
work is going along favorably, but 
more songs would be accepted, if they 
are good enough.
PROF. TR1NKS TALKS AT 
FIRST C.M.E.S. MEETING
DR. BAKER AT BRYN MAWR
FOR PARK'S INAUGURATION
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, acting presi
dent of Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, represented Carnegie at the inau
guration of Marion Edwards Park as 
president of Bryn Mawr Saturday. 
The inauguration exercises at Bryn 
Mawr began at 11 oclock Saturday 
morning. Representatives from uni
versities all over the country were in 
attendance.
Director Mary B. Breed of the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College of 
Carnegie Tech, was also present at 
the inauguration exercises as she is a 
member of the alumnae body. Direc
tor Breed made an address at the 
alumnae banquet Friday at Bryn 
Mawr.
The Carnegie Mechanical Engineer
ing Society hold its first meeting of 
the year last Thursday evening in 
Room 11, Machinery Hall. The meet
ing was fairly wrell attended, about 
thirty-five being present. The pro
gram consisted of general business, 
talks by Professor Trinlcs and sev
eral of the students, followed by re
freshments and smokes.
Professor Trinks gave a short talk, 
giving tho history of the organization 
of the Carnegie Mechanical Engineer
ing Society back in 1906 and of its 
affiliation with the National Organi
zation, the Ameiican iStociety of Me
chanical Engineers. He also ex
plained the reason why the Mechanic
al Department requiros that all under
graduates spend three consecutive, 
months in shop work in at least one 
summer. A man cannot understand 
the feelings or the viewpoint of the 
working man unless he has worked 
with him. Human Engineering has 
come to be of such vital importance 
in industrial life today that it cannot 
be overlooked.
Several of the fellows gave their 
experiences in the work that they 
had done during the last summer. 
Most of them i-an up against some 
rather amusing incidents and all 
agreed that summer work in the shop, 
while rather hard physically, is edu
cational from every standpoint.
The question of ordering pins for 
the members was taken up and a com
mittee was appointed to look after 
the matter.
It was decided that at the future 
meetings of the society student mem
bers will discuss technical subjects 
and other things of general interest 
to the student engineer.
DR. BAKER AT 
ASSEMBLY OF 
NIGHT SCHOOL
Urges Earnestness of Men in 
Work  Scofield Elected 
President  Director Mott 
and Dr. Ihrig Also Speak
TO HAVE NEWSPAPER
The Night College of Engineering 
held its organization meeting ou Mon
day evening. October lfi. Dr. Thomas 
S. Baker, acting president of the Car
negie Institute of Technology, deliv
ered his annual address to the Night 
Engineering students at this meeting. 
Director William. E. Mott, head of 
the College of Engineering, and Dr. 
R. H. Ihrig, supervisor of the Night 
School classes, also made speeches, 
The enthusiasm .displayed at this as
sembly of tho night students was 
highly indicative of the important 
role which th Night School is filling.
After tho addresses a smoker and 
general get-together was held. The 
following officers from the student 
body of the Night College of Engi
neering were elected for the coming 
year: James W. Schofield, president; 
G. L. Pettsy, vice president; James 
Chamberlain, sooretary; Charles Pot
ter, treasurer. Herbert Cooley was 
named as tho representative of tho 
night engineering students to the Stu
dent Activities Board.
The students in the Night Collogo 
of Engineering represent almost 
every industry of tho Pittsburgh dis
trict. Some of them are college grad
uates who feel the need in their work 
of some additional technical kuowl(Continued on Page Three.)
JUNIOR PROM. COMMITTEE 
ELECTS OFFICERS AND
ARRANGES FOR DANCE
. The prom committee held its first 
meeting', in Arts school on Friday 
evening and elected tho following offi
cers; Ryan, chairman; Gore, secre
tary, and Berglund, treasurer.
The members of the committee are 
Ryan, Robertson, Hollingsworth and 
Johnston, Engineering; Gore, Borglund arid Sanford, Industries; Roy and 
Gross, Arts.
The Prom will be held in the Hotel 
Schenley this year. Arrangements 
are being made to obtain the best 
orchestra that can possibly be secured. 
It is intended to make the Junior 
Prom a greater success than ever.
SKIBO FOOTBALL MACHINE 
SWAMPS THIEL COLLEGE 
TO THE TUNE OF 59 TO 0
DR. McKAY SPEAKS AT 
RADIO CLUB MEETING
The third meeting of the Radio 
Club this season wan held last Wed
nesday night in room 104, Machinery 
Hall. An interesting program had 
boen planned, and several items of In
terest to tho members of the club 
were discussed, among which was a 
motion to reduce .the foes of the club. 
It will be oiv inrest to those' who 
contemplate joining, to notice that 
the dues have boen reducod from 
three dollars to ono dollar por yoar. 
This wfas done with a view to Increas
ing the club membership.
The speaker of tho evening was 
Dr. C. T. McKay, "who gave a locture on the construction of tho vac
uum tubes used in radio communica
tion; Professor M'cKay has had con
siderable experience in this lino of 
Avork with tho Wostinghouso Re
search at East Pittsburgh, and 'was 
perfectly capable of presenting his 
subject.
1-Ie told of tho evolution of tho 
vacuum tube from the old, low vac
uum, x-ray tubes used for medical 
purposes, to tho prosont day, high 
power, trlodo tubes which have made 
radio telephony possible over as groat 
distances as are commonly covered 
by tho large broadcasting stations. 
These tubes are evacuated to an al
most immeasurable degroo which 
takes a long time to accomplish per
fectly, thus accounting to a certain 
extent for their prohibitive cost. In 
addition to his lecture, Professor Mc
Kay had several tubes widen he used 
for demonstration.
DR. BAKER GIVES BANQUET
FOR PUBLIC SCHOOL HEADS
THISTLE AGAIN ISSUES
CALL FOR MORE MEN TO
HELP ON BUSINESS STAFF
Thistle needs fifteen Plebes and 
Sophomores to help carry on with this 
years work. Candidates from, Sci
ence or Industries preferred. This is 
the first year that students are re
quired to participate in some form of 
student activity. Thistle offers this 
chance to new students, who are in
terested In publicity work.
The Thistle" is the product of the 
Junior Class, In all four schools, and 
needs experienced men to handle tho 
responsible positions, such as; Editorin-Chief, Business 'Manager, Sales 
Manager, Art Editor, etc. These exec
utive positions can only be filled by 
men who have had the preliminary 
work, and know what the Thistle is 
doing and how it is doing it. Oppor
tunity knocks- once in a college career, 
so here is your chance to make good 
at Carnegie on Thistle work.
All candidates report in Room 14, 
College of Industries, this Sunday, 
October 29, at 2:30 P. M.
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, acting presiderit of the Carnegie Institute of 
.Technology, gave a luncheon Thurs
day in honor of Dr. William M. Da
vidson, superintendent of the public 
schools of Pittsburgh, and the high 
school principals, at the University 
Club.
In addition to Dr. Baker and Dr. 
Davidson, Dean Tarbell and Alan 
Bright, registrar of Carnegie Tech, 
were also present. The following 
high school principals were also in 
attendance: William L. Smith, Alle
gheny High School; L. B. Austin, 
Business High School; Edward Rynearson, Fifth Avenue High School; 
J. F. Bailey, Irwin Avenue High 
School; C: P. Foster, Latimere High 
School; D. R. Sumstine, Peabody 
High School; F. E. Pickinger, Ed
ward Sauvain, Schenley High School; 
J. Ii. McGlaughlin, South High 
School; H. E. Winner, South Hills 
High School, and W. L. Leopold, 
Westingliouse High School.
Faculty Club Holds Meeting
The Faeulty Club of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology met Wednesday 
morning at 9:30 in the Faculty Club 
in the Central building. The report 
of the treasurer was discussed as 
well as a campaign for now members 
and a grpnaslum class for fac
ulty members. Plans relative to serv
ing luncheon dally for faculty mem
bers in tho club room were also dis
cussed.
Robert B. Leighou AL the new pres
ident of the Faculty Club. Harry S. 
I-Iower has been named vice presi
dent and Howard G. Potter, secretarytreasurer. Tho house committee Is 
as follows: William R. Work, H, S.
Lightcap, G. B. Yoakum, Major Philip 
Gordon, Harold L. Lang, Joseph B. 
Ellis, R. B. Ambrose.
COMM. APPOINTED 
TO ACT ON KILTS
Tartans Display Varied Attack of End 
Runs, Line Smashes, Cross Bucks 
and Trick Plays. Robertson, 
Lamb and Weirman Star
SUBSTITUTES PERFORM WELL
Student Council Votes For 
Action in Building of 
Senior Fence
Pursuant with the request of the 
student body at the last general as
sembly the Student Council appointed 
the following members to the Kiltie 
Committee. John Todd, Arts; D. C. 
Porterfield, Engineering; L. J. Morris, 
Industries, and Miss Ray Fine, Mar
garet Morrison. This committee is to 
work in conjunction with a commit
tee of alumni to named by the Alumni 
Association. The duties of the com
mittee are to provide ways and means 
of obtaining kiltie uniforms lor the 
band as soon as possib.q.
Hugh Sprlnklo reported that the 
Senior Fence Committee had had a 
meeting. Tho type and approximate 
cost of the structure wore decided 
upon by the committee and the rest 
of the work would bo completed as 
soon as possible. Council voted to 
defray t.te expenses of the* fenco not 
to exceed one hundred and fifty dol
lars. .
J. D. Mawhinuoy was appointed 
chairman of the General Freshman 
Rogulati '-ns Committee. One duty of 
tho committee this yea1,* will bo to 
provide a uniform system of liebo 
trials lor the four schools.
C. C. Brumbaugh was appointed as 
student member of tho Restaurant 
Committee.
Tho SociarCommittooroportod that 
sovoral dance petitions had beon ap* 
proy.T.I Dud o.ivq bad boon, l-'viectod. on 
tho grounds that tho petitioning or
ganization had already hold'one dance 
this r.i.'Mi'.h
STANDING COMMITTEE 
APPOINTED IN SCIENCE
At. tho mooting of tho iSjcfeuco Son
ate last Monday, the following stand
ing cpmmlttodB wore appointed for 
tho somostor.
Plobo Regulations-J. p. Evans, 
Chairman; Ryan, Gilbert, Mills.
Club RoomShoorko, Chairman; 
Campboll, Mattor.
Assembly  Amos, Chairman; 
Griggs, Gilbert, Sprlnklo.
VotingGannon, Chairman; Ryan, 
Craighead, Mills.
Bulletin Board -Campbell.
Officers a(re|: Am.es!, president;
Griggs, Vico President; Ryan, Secre
tary; and Mattor, Treasurer.
Although, due to poor attendance, 
no further business was transacted, 
tho advisability of giving aii Engi
neers Ball was discussed1.
LIVELY PLEBE TRIAL HELD 
AT ARTS COLLEGE ASSEMBLY
Fine Arts held an assembly last 
Wednesday in the Little Theater 
Roddy Patterson, president, opened 
the meeting and spoke briefly on the 
coming Arts ball. Nothing definitely 
has been started, but within a short 
time suggestions and ideas will be 
called for at assembly.
After a short business session the 
meeting was turned over to the Soph
omores who made things lively for 
the Plebes. Several yearlings be
decked in curious costumes, rendered 
songs, cheers and recitations. All 
were pleased with the talent and 
several numbers were encored, much 
to the dissatisfaction of the perform
ers.
Lionizing Number of 
Puppet on Sale Oct. 30
Will Make Its Appearance 
Also at Penn State
 While no official denial has as yet beon entered, it is thought that the 
report that Thiel College was sending a team from which ono might even 
expect the unexpected was absolutely unfounded. The final score was 59- 
0, and might well have boen worse. Tho big Tartan machine was able to 
score almost at will; but let it be said to their credit that they did not forget 
their homo training and were generous to tho visitorsthey allowed Thiel 
0110 first down during tho course of the game.
 We do not mean to say that the 
boys from Greenville were not game. 
They fought all tho way, but were 
not equal to the dazzling assortment 
of end runs, line smashes, cross-bucks 
and other tricks from Wally Steffens 
repertoire. Thiel has a good little 
team and Carnegie has, a mighty good 
big team, wherein lies the whole 
story.
Tho Skiboi; presented a somewhat 
patched up team. Some of the regu
lars, Including Jimmy Anderson and 
Chester Brumbaugh, were on tho 
bonch, but so capable were tho sub
stitutes that one hardly noticed the 
absoaco of tho regulars. Pittman was 
in at right half, Lamb at fullback, and 
Rosen bloom at right guard. Boforo 
tho game had ended, many others 
wore sent In to relievo l.lio tired vet
erans. Lamb was tho most consist
ent ground gainer and took tho bak. 
across tho lino tor four of Carnegie's 
touchdowns.
Tho first touchdown of tho gumo 
came oarly in tho first period after 
McCoy had fumbled a, punt from tho 
toe of Nowmnn, and rotter recov
ered on Thiol's 28 yard lino. Lamb 
galnod five yards at ciontor and Rob
ertson skirted right oiuli for a. touch
down. Cy Comfort kicked goal from 
placement, making the score 7-0. A 
few moments later Lamb cut through 
for another touchdown. Comfort an
nexed (tho- oxti'o ,poi.'.. 3~.,.., *..>:
And Just a little later Lamb again toro 
through on a Calco pans, and scored. 
Gy's kick was blocked, the total 
mounting to ()(). The quarter ended 
with tho ball on Thiels 27 yard lino.
la tho second framo, Pittman broke 
through and blocked Christmans punt, 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
The second issue of tho Puppet .will 
be available for tho student body on 
October 30. This issue will bo known 
as tho Lionizing Number, because 
of tho lntimato connection it will have 
with the football gamo between tho 
Penn State Nittany Lions and tho 
Plaid Warriors rrom Carnogio Tech on 
Armistice Day, November 11.
Tho Student Council of Pennsyl
vania iState College and th.o staff of 
tho Penn Stato Froth has kindly 
gran tod permission to tho Puppot staff 
to place tho Lionizing Number on 
sale on the Penn Stato campus and 
In tho stands bororo and during the 
Ponn Stato-Carnoglo Tech game. 
Ono thousand copies (of tho Puppot 
will bo offered for sale to tho student 
body and alumni of Penn Stato Col
logo on this day, which will opon tho 
salo of tho Lionizing Number to tho 
general public.
The day of fho Ponn Htale-Caruogln 
Tech game Is a rod letter day In tho 
Ponn Stato calendar this year -bopause It falls on both Armistice Day 
and Pennsylvania Day. Tho dedica
tory page of the Lionizing Numbor 
boars this Inscription;
The Puppot take's solemn prldo In 
dedicating this Issue to those men of 
Pennsylvania State Collogo and the 
Carnogio Institute of Technology who 
gave their lives In the defense of this 
country, thereby adding lustre to their 
respective Alma Maters."
Aftor tho Lionizing Number, tho 
Puppot will retire to prepare an appe
tite for Thanksgiving which will 
bring forth tho usual snappy Turkey 
numbers. Another Issue will come out 
before the Christmas holidays.
Delta Skull Fraternity
Holds Annual Initiation
LUNCHEON OF ADVISORY
BOARD FOR CO-OPERATIVE
MINING COURSES
The fall business luncheon of the 
Advisory Board for the Co-operative 
Mining Courses of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology was held Wednesday 
at 12:30 p. m. In room B In the Cham
ber of Commerce building. Dr. Thom
as 8. Baker,' acting president of Car
negie Tech, was prosent as well as 
Captain Edward Steldle, Professor 
Crabtree. W. L, Romlck. and W. L, 
Daugherty. Plans and matter of re
search work at Carnegie were taken 
up and dlucuBsed. W. F. Affelder, as
sistant to the prosldent, Hllmari Coal 
and Coke Company, presided afc tho 
meeting.
The following members of the Ad
visory Board v/ero present: M. Canglocli, W, R. Calverley, A. P. Cameron, 
II. N. Eavenson, A, C. Fielder, W. E. 
Fold, Robert Gibbons, W. H. Glasgow, 
J. M. Armstrong, George S. Baton, 
John I-I. Jones, M. D. Kirk, W. A. 
Luce, Alex McCaneh, G. F. Osier, A. 
R. Pollock, John I. Pratt.
At tho annual Tall Initiation of tho 
Dolta Skull which was hold tho week 
of tho ninth the following men were 
initiated into the fraternity: G. Lloyd 
Comfort, Robert A. Smith, Vloent A. 
Roy, William A. Ryan, James A. Rob
ertson, Toasdalo Barney, Wilbur Cun
ningham, Thomas N. Griggs, Earl 
Gross> Charles N. Hollingsworth, Er
nest A. Bergland and ICnos M. John
ston. These men were chosen and 
pledged on Tap Day during Campus 
Week last year. Delta Skull Is the 
Junior Honorary Fraternity at Carncgip Tech. Each year on Tap Day, 
fifteen members of the Sophomore 
class of the three men's schools are 
chosen to serve as active members 
for the following, their Junior year. 
Membership is based on scholarship, 
activities, character, leadership and 
the work that the man has clone, for 
the school.
Activities Board Takes 
Action on Finances
Budgets to bo Presented at 
Next Regular Meeting
Tho Student Activities Boaril^ hold 
Its socond mooting of tho yoar last 
Wod noiulay night. A groat many 
questions were brought up for.dlacuHslon, mostly relating to financial mat
ters, outstanding from last yoar. Tho 
question of kilts for the band was 
taken up and a definite report will bo 
in ordor next meeting.
It was (iocided to permit Doan 'Par
boil to Invest some of tho money be
longing to the Council from last year 
until such time as a good use may 
be found for It. The Board has about 
$4,000.00 alroady Invested in Liberty 
Bonds and Swift Company stock, and 
all this money will continue to work 
until it Is needed for the students of 
Carnegie Tech.
It was hinted that the Shilling, tho 
M. M. C. publication, will soon appear 
upon the campus, better than before. 
However, It appears to be secret, so 
nothing definite is known about it 
yet.
The budgets of the different depart
ments will be presenteJ at the next 
meeting.
Agitation For Scotch Dress For
Band Involves Serious Problems
(By T. S. Repplier.)
(Special Cable from Edinburgh.) 
The question of kilts for the Car
negie Tech Band is not the serene 
and simple mattor that first thought 
classifies It, but upon further consid
eration ihe matter involves problems 
of a most momentous nature that 
may well make the brainiest men of 
the Institution scratch their heads in 
doubt. When viewed from the angle 
of a layman, the situation seems 
ridiculously simple; a mere purchas
ing of kilts, a check for the expendi
ture, and lo-the dlsponsers of can
ned noise are ready for Bobblo 
Burns and Hurry Lauder,
IJuJ., coming right down to actuali
ties what do you do with klltu once 
you have 'em?
Which End 1 the F^ont? 
Imagine the consternation of the 
on his arrival of the grand day, when 
Irish or Czecho-Slovaklan student upho goes to don the forty odd varie
ties of raiment which constitute a 
Scotchman's apparol. Conjure up 
for yourselves tho dismay upon the 
face of Michael Fruitstanda when he 
attempts to classify his first kilt! In
the first place, which end do you 
get Into and how? Does It go on 
over the head, or do you slide into 
It like a snake skin? When one has 
some eighty-eight articles 1n which 
to clothe himself, it is readily seen 
that the poor bandsman Is iuoi;e to 
be pitied than envied. Wo have 
figured scientifically that in order to 
bei ready for -the Penn State game, 
tho average riiusikpr must star dress
ing oarly nex weolc.
Bandy SUURD and Knock Knees.
And pity tho young gents who are 
in poor shape! More man has never 
In his wildest moments imagined that 
lie would bo afflicted with the short 
skirt mania, and those who have 
bow leg or handy kneos wore con
tent to swim In privato. Who aro 
we, thert, lo tear oil! tho voli of mod
esty and allow the positively Indocent exposure which will be tho re
sult of the coming fashion? Is stu
dent opinion .;ver justified In tramp-' 
ling on the right of a man to hide 
his own legs? And do you ever stop 
to think that, like the man with tho 
shiny pate, it means an additional 
(Continued, on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 25, 1922
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST .........................................
TelephoneHiland S5S.
Editor-in-Chief
H. D. SONNEMANN , 
EDW. A. BRAND
KENNETH ARNOLD 
H. P. SIMPSON........
HORTENSE PURDY .
H. F. DIETER............
E. J. MAUST.............
H. H. WILSON..........
R. P. HAY ..................
R. B. KELLER ..........
E. P. COUSE, JR.........
T. S. REPPLIER .... 
J. K. MATTER..........
TelephoneSchenley 9211 
TelephoneSchenley 9143
TelephoneSchenley 9143 
TelephoneSchenley 9079 
TelephoneHazel 939S 
TelephoneHazel 9422 
TelephoneHazel 9356
___Business Manager
........Managing Editor
..........Associate Editor
To the Editor,
The Carnegie Tartan.
Dear Sir:
At the Thiel game last Saturday I 
was sitting over in the grandstand'. 
At the start of the main event be
tween the Varsity and Thiel, the band, 
Associate Editor came onto the field followed by a 
Associate Editor. smart looking band of cheerleaders.
They marched around to the far side 
of the field ^n front of the bleachers
____News Editor
____ News Editor
.. Athletic Editor
___ Photographer
Exchange Editor
............Art Editor
.. Special Writer 
... Special Writer
J. M. COOPER____
J. C. MAJOR..........
................................................................. Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley S211
.................................................................. Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, M. S. Downes, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard. F. D. Rossini, V. L. Spencer, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. J. lylcCormick, J. A. Berno, B. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schuclter, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
Lauclig, D. Moskovitz, J. W. Metro P. W. Reilly, R. R. Young and H. 
Gibson.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
postoffice before 4:30 Friday._____________________^_____________________j________
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Office hoursTuesday,
MOB HAZING
Four midshipmen of the graduating class at the Naval Academy 
are on the prison ship, subject to court martial, because they are 
charged with hazing Plebes. The authorities at Annapolis realize 
that this dangerous practice at Navy is becoming a menace and are 
going to stamp it out.
Hazing has not reached the danger point at Carnegie yet, but 
there have been occasions when the students have been in class 
scraps. Any hazing which involves a large number o students is 
bad, for people in a mob do not think; it seems that there can be 
no collective reasoning under those circumstances, and therefore, the 
victim has no chance to escape serious injury. Why do other schools 
permit class rushes and other fools pleasures, which means nothing 
to the welfare of the school, but is derogatory to the finer qualities 
of human culture? Perhaps the authorities have not the courage to 
try to stop it, but there is a feeling more or less general that soon 
there will be a movement to get rid of these foolhardy traditions.
THK OTHER FELLOW
j APPEAL FOR KILTS 
IS RECOGNIZED
where the band found seats and the 
cheerleaders proceeded to get located. 
A couple of them came prancing back 
across the field in front of the grand
stand where they made an attempt to 
lead some cheers. The crowd did not 
seem to follow their lead very well 
and the cheering was weak. After 
one or two more attempts they started 
to razz'the crowd for not cheering and 
then they went back across the field 
to the bleachers leaving the grand
stand leaderless.
Now somebody was at fault and I 
am inclined to believe it was the 
cheerleaders. To begin with they 
dont use their heads in their work. 
At times a crowd is more susceptible 
to cheering and to certain cheers than 
at others. A good cheerleader must 
he able to read the minds of the mob, 
to feel its pulse and to know just what 
yells it wants and when it wants 
them. In other words a little psychol
ogy must be used and not just a 
brazen half-hearted attempt at leading. 
It recalls to mind "Safety First who 
in years gone by has done his share 
of cheerleading and has done it well. 
He was always with the crowd, was 
part of the crowd and never failed 
to get the Old Tech Spirit bubbling 
over. At Little Washington, I noticed 
one particularly bad thing that the 
cheerleaders did. Near the close of 
the game and before W. & J. had 
scored their touchdown, these whiteclad men had the game all won for 
Carnegie and were telling the crowd 
the plans for a celebration. Instead 
of responding to tile ideas of tho 
cheerleaders the crowd began to hoot 
them, showing again that they had 
failed to read the feelings of the root
ers.
However, let me say that this is not 
meant as a destructive criticism 
against those boys with the big mega
phones for they are trying to do their 
best. If they can get hold of some 
of the above ideas and put them into 
practice, I think it will help consider
ably.
ATHA LETICS,
Maybe its rather early to start 
talking about the Notre Dame game, 
but the tickets will soon be on sale 
so here goes. This game will be.our 
biggest home game and the only one 
with opponents who have a good 
chance to beat us. The game is sure 
to be a hummer. Now heres our 
chance to show the people of Pitts
burgh how we support our teams. 
Most of us are going to have our par
ents visit us sometime during the 
year. Why not get them here for the 
N. D. game? The alumni will all 
come. The people of Pittsburgh will 
be there. The students need no urg
ing. So lets crowd Forbes Field with 
Carnegie people by getting as many 
as possible or our parents here. That 
field can hold 30,000 people and its up 
to us to fill, it. Talk it up in your 
next letter home.
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
Further Announcements to 
Follow Soon. Alumni 
Pledge Support
Some students seeih to have so little consideration for other 
pepole that they should, not be allowed to enjoy the courtesies of 
society. The.men living in the dormitories arc especially guilty of 
disregarding the rights of the other fellow; late at night when most 
of the students are studying, one man shouting or blowing some mu
sical instrument will disturb several hundred others.
Also the dormitory men do not respect the efforts of the authori
ties to beautify the surroundings; grass has been planted around 
theso buildings, but some students do not have enough pride in their 
school or themselves to refrain from short cutting. There are some 
upperclassmen who have the school at heart, they should reprimand 
any one walking on the grass.__________________________________________________
Student Calendar
Another boost for the team. As we 
were leaving the field Saturday, we 
passed behind the Thiel bench. One 
of their assistant coaches was talking 
to the referee who had come in for a 
drink.
"Too big for us. ruthful ly re
marked the A. C., looking at that 59.
"They were. They have the most 
wonderful team work in interference 
that Ive seen in many a day. This 
from the referee between swallows.
If you think youre too busy,'' map 
out your time. Its the fellows around 
school who have the most to do both 
in activities and studies who have 
time for everything.
"GET THE FACTS
Dear Roamer:
Have you been in the grandstand 
at any of the football games this year? 
Well, I suppose you have noticed the 
way the crowd respects the Alma 
Mater. Just as soon as the band be
gins to play it the crowd gets up oni 
its feetbut they turn around and 
start to go out rather than remaining 
to sing. Some few go out with just 
enough feeling to take their hats off, 
but many keep covered all the time. 
This may be accounted for by the 
statement that many who sit in the 
stands are not Tech people, but Lil Os
wald has seen severalin fact many 
of the Tech men and women doing the 
retreat while their school song was be
ing played. Suppose you impress upon 
the gentle readers that the Alma 
Mater should be respected, and ask 
them kindly in a sweet voice if they 
would mind remaining until tho last 
note was played and sung. Supper 
will wait just five minutes longer, so 
lets try to make this thing go over.
With your help I am looking for
ward to the success of tho idea.
OSWALD III.
This lias been commented on time 
and time again. Tho only thing that 
can be done is to make ah appoal to 
the individuals' sense of loyalty.
The Student Council has finally ap
pointed a committee to take charge 
of question of kilts for our band. 
This step marks the most important 
development toward the accomplish
ing of plans of several months. The 
committee as appointed at tho last 
meeting of the 'Student Council con
sists of "Red Morris, chairman; Dave 
Porterfield, John Todd, and Miss Ray 
Fine. Bob Schmertz is to represent 
the alumni, if suitable to him.
The committee will hold its first 
meeting this week, and will take defin
ite steps toward raising the neces
sary funds to outfit the band. Many 
plans have been discussed by various 
groups of students, some of them 
foasible, others impractical.
The downtown newspapers seem to 
have secured the information that 
already have our kilts, and went into 
a lengthy discussion of the merits of 
our activity. This is all very good 
iu the light of publicity. But we wish 
to make it clear to all those inter
ested in our college that we do not 
have them yet.
This leads up to an appoal to the 
student body and alumni to back up 
any plans that the committeo may 
deem advisable. The amount of money 
nelessary will not cost much over 
two thousand dollars. With our en
thusiastic student body and active 
alumni organization, this sum of 
money should not he hard to raise. 
The alumni have already signified 
their willingness to help. Will the 
student body back up the proposition 
in a like manner?
It is not too late yet to have the 
kilts for the Penn State game. "Rod 
Morris was one of the first to push 
this idea, and let it be understood he 
will not rest until we linvo a real 
"Kiltie Band. With this in mind, 
prepare for tho announcement of the 
plan of action in next week's Car
negie Tartan.
Cross Country-..3:00, Here
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 25
-Allegheny versus Carnegie....................
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26
Band Practice ...................................................................7:00, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27
Tea DanceInd. Soph.....................................................4:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 28
FootballGrove City versus Carnegie...................................'..3 :00, Here
DanceHalloween Football Dance..........................8:00, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 29
Musical ClubGlee Club.................................2:30, Arts Exhibition Hall
Mandolin Club......................................2:30, Carnegie Union
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 2
Band Practice......................................................................7:00, Carnegie Union
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, 
NOVEMBER 1, 2, 3, 4
DramaThe Good Hope................................................8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 3
.................................4:00, Carnegie Union
Cash Prizes Offered 
in Plumbing Department
Contest Open to Both Stu
dents and Faculty
The . College of Industries announces 
a prize contest for the best papers 
written on the subject of "The Use 
of Vitrived Clay Pip'e in Plumbing 
Systems, the contest to he open to 
plumbing experts, instructors and stu
dents. Prizes to the amount of $250 
will be awarded on April 15, 1923.
According to the announcement, 
the contest has been arranged to 
further the interest in roducing the 
cost of plumbing installations, and to 
assist the industry to ibecome better 
acquainted with the development and 
use of vitrified clay sewer pipe. The, xi. ____ iii i you seem to forgot ono thing. Car-money has been made available by . , , . . , .nogio has only rison to her, prosont 
status among the best toams iii tho 
icountry in the last two years. Be
fore that time, Thiol was a real prac
tice game, and you could got hots 
that we wouldnt win by moro than 21 
pointB. Our standing has changod 
too fast for our schedule. Next yoar 
we expect to have two home games
which will rival tho PItt-W. & J. and
the Pitt-State games In attendance 
and fight.
Dear Roamer:
Aftoy looking at ^ho terrible excuse 
for .football gamy that was pulled 
oif last Saturday, I wonder why wo 
pick such weak teams. If wo want a 
practice game, lets schedulo ono. 
Furthermore, wouldn't it bo a good 
idea to schedule another big game at 
homo? Surely wo could got a largo 
enough crowd to pay any reasonable 
guarantee. It would raise Carnegies 
prestige in the city.
'SKIBO.
Sldbo, your question Is all right but
R.O.T.C. ANNOUNCES TOTAL 
ENROLLMENT FOR YEAR
the Eastern Clay Products Associa
tion.
The contest is divided for competi
tors of three classes as follows: 
Class AThose who have had expe
rience in the installation of plumbing 
systems or house sewers. Class B 
Instructors. Class CStudents in the 
'Carnegie Institute of Technology or 
other institutions of learning where 
house drainage is taught. Contest
ants are required to send in their 
names and class distinction before 
January 15, to the Committee Chair
man, and complete papers must be 
in the hands of the committee before
The total onrollment of tho Military 
Department has beon listed to date 
showing a total of three hundred and 
five men taking the Resorve Officers 
Training Corps course. This number 
Is slightly under the enrollment of 
last ypar but it is better than that of 
two yoars ngo.
The onrollment In tho Engineer 
Unit totals 140 mon, in thei Motor 
Transport Unit 72 mon, and in the 
Signal Corps Unit 87 mon. Tho Col
lege, of Scionoe and Engineering glvos 
tho most mon with a total of 253 from 
all classes. The College of Industries 
conies next with a total of -12 men 
from all classes and tho Collogo of 
Fino Art last with 10 men.
The Englneor Unit takes men from 
tho Colloge of Science and Engineer
ing and from tho Department of Archi
tecture in tho Colloge of Flno Arts, 
Tho Motor Transport Unit enroll fcliolr 
mon from tho Collogo of Industries 
and from tho Department of Mochan 
leal Engineering in tho Collogo of Sclonco and Engineering. Tho Signal 
Corps take their men from tho Do 
pnrtmont of Electrical Engineering of 
tho Collogo of Seionco and Engineer
ing alono.
Tea DanceScience Soph....................................................,  -------or~ ----------------------------------------------------------------
Dance-Graphica :30, Carnegie Union ^ fll.5t prfz0 Qf ,moo wn,
for the best paper inSATURDAY, .NOVEMBER 4
FootballAllegheny versus Carnegie. 
DanceFootball Danee.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER
2:30, Here 
3:30, Carnegie Union
General Student Assembly........11:30j Music Hall
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10 
Tea DaneeInd. Junior.................................................4:30, Carnegie Union
DaneeD. A. W. V.8:30, Carnegie Union f *^"d gg arf awarded, m ono nn flflflihnnni rirl'/n P Aft
awarded for the best paper in all 
classes; a second prize of $50.00 will 
be awarded for/the second best pa
per in all classes; a third prize of 
?50.00 will be awarded for the best 
paper in the class, which did not re
ceive first or second prize. If first
FootballSATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11 
-Penn State versus Carnegie.....State College
PLEBE TRIAL FURNISHES 
AMUSEMENT FOR SOPHS
Around the door of the Hall of Jus
tice (?) stands a crowd of Plebes 
waiting to be given the extreme pen- alty. Within, Judge Evans sat, pipe 
in hand, earnestly talking to the err
ing Freshman. In came the next case. 
Very serious, indeed, is the. situation 
which comes from eating lunches in 
Science School. So serious, in fact, 
that Plebes, List and Leown, were 
sentenced to spread their table be
fore them, even in the presence of 
their enemiesand eat lunch on the 
Design School court yard. This will 
be repeated every day for a week. In 
case of rain, it will be necessary to 
put oil paper over the sandwiches.
The Science Assembly will be a 
scene of great interest to the music 
lovers of Carnegie Tech. Plebos 
Epply and Gaylor will sing (?) the 
Alma Mater as they see it. At the 
same assembly, Plebe Huster will 
sing Bob Sclimertzs song, Fight for 
the Glory of Carnegie, and the writ
er ventures that Bob wont recognize 
the song.
The Campus will be turned into a 
veritable dressing room during the 
forthcoming week, for many Plebes 
are going to appear in boudoir caps 
ladies night caps, as one Plebe stated 
itwhen they go out. Plebes Sirabian, Harris, Diulus, Speciall and Pat
terson will be the ones who will dress 
in this fashion.
Plebes Henderson and Porter will 
appear as book worms throughout the 
week. Each man will carry their
C CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS 
AT THEIR LAST MEETING
On Monday evening, October 9, the 
Varsity C Club held its first meet
ing of the year in the Varsity Club 
Room.
The principal object of the meeting 
was the election of officers for the 
ensuing year. The following men 
were elected:
NewmanPresident.
TostesonSecretary-treasurer.
I-IorgerRecorder.
A committee headed' by A1 Irwin 
was appointed to plan a dance to be 
held between Thanksgiving and 
Christmas and pr6bably right after 
the football season.
It is the desire of tho letter men 
of Carnegie Tech to make this club an 
important factor in the athfetic life 
of the school.
Plans for the whole year were 
postponed until the next regular 
meeting of the club.
class, an additional prize of $50.00 
will be awarded so that two third 
prizes of $50.00 each will be given 
in each of the remaining . classes.
The Contest Committee consists of: 
Prof. 'S. E. Dibble, chairman, College 
of Industries; William J. Woolley, 
Manager the National Trade Exten
sion Bureau, Evansville,. Ind.; John 
T. Morris, Director College of Indus
tries; Joseph A. Weldon, Weldon & 
Kelly Company, Plumbing Sanitary 
Experts, Pittsburgh; Pa.
All communications regarding the 
contest should be addressed to Prof. 
S. E. Diibble, head of the Heating 
and Ventilating Department, College 
of Industries, Carnegie Tech.
book of U. S. Census Reports open, 
and appear to be studying at every 
step. Sweet Ghosts of Harvard!
Among the Plebes who did not show 
up for trial are Plebes Lewisfaller 
and Baltzar, the latter having missed 
twice. The future of these two Plebes 
is going to be rosy if they are not 
careful.
The trial ended with a recitation 
of the Alma Mater by Plebe Porter 
words at random and air foul.
Junior Class Discusses 
Thistle at Short Meeting
Last Wednesday at 11:30 the Sci
ence Junior Class held a short meet
ing in Room 112. The main topics 
of discussion were the Junior Prom, 
and the Thistle. It was decided that 
the Junior Prom. Committee should 
appoint their own chairman this 
year instead of the class president 
as was formerly done.
Chas. Hollingworth, Business 
Manager of the Thistle, gave a short 
talk on the fact that it was up to 
the Junior Class as a whole to get 
behind the Thistle and push the 
sale of it. So far this year the sales 
have been very disappointing. Each 
Junior was urged to buy a Thistle 
immediately, and not to put it off in
definitely, as has been done through
out the campaign.
Treasurer Schoerke was ordered to 
begin collecting the Junior dues as 
soon as possible.
Shhli! Dont tell anybody. Tho 
Shilling is getting dressed and will 
bo out sometime in the future.
Found this in the box today: 
Whats in a name? Bill Shakespeare 
said.
And I was thinking when I read, 
That he saw Lamb run twenty yards 
With six men hanging on his head.
Congratulations, Pitt.
Lets go, W. & J. Wed like to 
see you win all the rest of your games.
ROAMER.
Art Soph Girls Protest 
Regulation Interference
Some one has said that there is 
going to (be a big battle in the Col
lege of Fine Arts unless the Upperclass girls keep off the Sophomore 
girls crop of regulation grass. There 
has been a great leal of hard feel
ing on the part of the Soph girls. 
The trouble seems to have come 
from the result of the last trial. 
There were several girls sentenced 
to appear on the campus with, cute 
little wax mustaches and goatees. 
This was a novel penalty for talking 
to the boys, but according to the 
Juniors and Seniors it was going too 
far. The upperclasses said that there 
was no sense in trying to make a 
girls face look like a boys physiog
nomy, simply because the poor girl 
talked to a male being. All very 
true, but according to the law of 
Supply and Demand, there will be 
no regulations If the two higher 
classes keep butting in. The- Soph 
omores tell the girls to do ono thing 
and they are immediately put out of 
power by the upperclass girls telling 
the Plebes not to do this thing. Ail 
very cute, and very ladylike, but not 
exactly the proper thing to donot 
so good for the Plebe.
Seriously, let us suggest that the 
upperclass girls let the Sophs do 
what they will, as Jong as the "will1 
is within reason, iij. the line of giv
ing penalties. No punishment will 
hurt the Plebes if it is given in fun
Carnogio Tech Is forging ahead! 
Everywhere,- in every department, in 
each colloge, and in all departments, 
such is the case. The reason is sim
ple. The men are here who have as 
their motto: My Heart Is. in My
Work. They are not content with 
letting well enough bothey know 
the work in their sped lie field is in 
its infancythat much moro is to 
be discovered through consistent re
search than has beon found in tho 
past. They are finding it too through 
diligent effort on their part.
Prof. S. E. Dibble, Head of Heat
ing. Ventilation, and Sanitation De
partment nt Carnegie Tech, aided by 
Prof. R. B. Loighou. of Chemistry, De
partment of Industrial iScionco, also 
of Carnegie Tech. are of this type. 
Edward Nash and Robert Carr, stu
dents. furnished valuable aid in the 
actual conductance ot* the tests. These 
men are interested to such an extent 
that they are doing a good turn for 
botli the drainage Industry and the ad
vertisement of Carnegio Tech.
Plumbing, in the past, lias been ex
pensive because of tho necessity of 
using cast iron piping. Vitrified clay 
pipes have, two weak points: They
have to bo joined together with ce-1 
ment, which never was made abso
lutely water-tight, and under pressure, 
when a building settled, had a ten
dency of cracking.
In twenty-one tests, these weak 
points liavo been eliminntod to such 
an extent that it is now possible to 
use vitrified clay pipes under small 
buildings in place of cast iijon, thus 
reducing tho cost of plumbing instal
lation. They have shown that vitri
fied clay pipes can bo joined and tho 
joints can stand a pressure of ton 
pounds without showing any loaks 
and further "without a doubt that the 
compound joint will stand a water 
pressure tost such as Is given to tho 
ordinary plumbing installation. Con
clusion drawn is that with tho caro 
of a skilled mechanic this type of 
plpo and joints naturally stands pres
sure as great as tho plpo itself is 
capable of withstanding. It was 
shown that a lino of plpos could bo 
thrown out of alignment and tho joint 
still bo tight and that in case a loak 
did develop it could bo roadily repaired by tho application of heat and 
added material.
This is not a local affair eitherIT 
IS NATIONAL!
By it Carnegie Tech is being ad
vertised! Articles are being written 
on the subject in papers throughout 
tho country. fourteen different groups 
of technical magazines have written 
articles. Inquiries are being received' 
from manufacturing concerns, con
tractors, municipalities, state and fed
eral highway commissions, the na
tional department of commorce, and 
the federal department of health. 
What does it all mean? Publicity for 
Carnegie!
Tho Eastern Clay Products Associa
tion has a publication, circulation 15,- 
000they devoted an entire issue totho subject. This samo concern has 
further denoted two hundred and 
fifty dollars in prizes for the best 
essay on tho subject: "Tho Uso of
Vitrified Clay Pipe in Plumbing Sys
tems. Theso prizes can be contested 
for by students, instructors, and men 
in the profession. There are approx
imately two hundred schools in tho 
country whoso students are eligible* 
These students are oligible becauso 
these schools tench drainage. But of 
these two hundred it was up to Car
negie Tech to load the way for ad
vancement.
Talk Carnegie, Follows! This is a 
talking pointmany moro to follow!
Yours for a better known CarnogioTech.
My Home f
Xj Away From f 
I Home !
NOTED ENGLISH PRINTER 
FIRST TO SIGN REGISTER 
OF PRINTING DEPARTMENT
this was glvon. If tho 
classes will look back ono i 
yoars, they will find that
T. J. Eamor, managing director of 
tho Marshall Engraving Company, 
Limltod. of London, England, was tho 
first visitor oC tho Department of 
Printing to Sign tho now rogistor 
placed In tho shop for that purpose.
Mr. Eamor Is touring tho United 
States for tho purpose of comparing 
English and American mol,hods In tho 
printing Industry. Ho stopped over 
In Pittsburgh last Thursday afternoon 
especially to Inspect tho Printing Dopnrtmont hero. Ho is now on his way 
to tho Typothotao convontion in Clovoland. Mr, Eamor vlowod with great 
Interest tho machinery and special 
features of equipment of tho print 
shop.
BLACK CAT DANCE
BY NEWMAN CLUB
Tonight, tho socond annual Black 
0i.it dance ol! the Nownmn Club will 
bo hold. Magglo's orchestra, led by 
Mr. Magglo himself, will furnish tho 
music. The first danco will begin 
promply at 9 o'clock.
Last Sunday, October 152, tho month
ly mooting of the club was held at 
tho Cathedral High School. ImportAn InThat is wlmt the fellows call tho Oakland 
Methodist Church and 
Community House.
3904 FORBES ST.
Drop in and see for 
yourSel I'.I
uppor 
ri two 
they
thought there was nothing too bad 
for a Plobo who talked to a man.
Timet) hnsonL changedonly tho
mon and girls liavo undergone tho ant business was transacted, 
transformationso let us have peace i ltlatlon of new members will be hold 
in the Colloge of Fine Arts, remem- in tho near future. Catholic students, 
boring that Patrick Henry thought of who liavo not joined tho club, should 
the Sophomores when he said "Give do so before this Initiation takes 
me Liberty or give me Death. I place.
Those
Letters
Home
will be longer 
and more fre
quent, if you 
write them on 
the
RemingtonPortable
This is the students ever-ready friend, helper 
and time-saver for his letters, themes, papers 
for all his writing.
The complete Portablehas Standard Keyboard 
and other big machine features. The 
compact Portablefits, in a case only 
four inches high. Price, complete with 
ease, $60.
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER 
COMPANY, INC.
102 SIXTH STREET 
Bessemer Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Paragon Ribbons for Remington Portable Typewriters 
3oc each  a dozen
YOCONE
The Personal Writing Machne
mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
DANCING
------AT------
The
Rittenhouse
EVERY SATURDAY9 P. M.
amtmmtffittttmwtmttmmtfflfflmms
THEY KNOW YOU 
Carry Mellon Travelers' 
Checks or Letters of Cred
it. They identify you be
yond question and therell 
be no necessity of cabling 
back to straighten out pos
sible embarassments due 
to unfamiliarity with for
eign customs and condi
tions.
Mellon National BankOliuer Jlue.($i SmvthfieldT
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 25. 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Auf hammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
that tli League For Longer Skirts 
have already protested the extreme 
fashion, and suspect that other, com
plaints of a more serious nature will 
shortly follow.
Furthermore, we are heartily in
This is youat college
SEEKING a symbolic figure to represent Knowl
edge, let us turn away from the muses of 
antiquity and the be-eapped and be-gowned 
youth of our own day.
How about the Football Player Tackling a 
Dummy? Isnt he typical of everything you do 
in these four years?
You are the Football Player. The dummjr is 
every knotty problem you tackle, every effort 
to earn your way through, every examination, 
every campus activity.
Tackle the dummy hard, and youll be ready 
for even bigger tests in the game of business or 
professional life.
Do not say about this symbol, How clever, 
and let it go at that. It is worth nothing unless 
it reminds you to get the spirit of the Tackier 
into your work.
By his earnestness he seems to feel the thrill 
of combat. With set jaws and muscles tense he 
plunges at the dummy. For him it is alive, and 
the practice is a means to win the game.
If you intend to help score touchdowns after 
college, here is a man to measure up to.
y Published in \
the interest of Elec
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what
ever helps the 
\ Industry.
Since 1869 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Number 22 of a series
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
.Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
Grove City College Team 
Promises Real Game
Tartan Team Expects 
Strong Opposition
By all indications the rootbatl game 
at Tech Field with Grove City this 
coming Saturday will not be neariy so 
one sided as the overwhelming defeat 
handed Thiel College last week.
There is little fear in the Tartan 
ranks that the Grove City gridiron 
men will do more than make a favor
able showing' against a team that has 
demonstrated a class of ball on par 
with most Eastern College elevens.
In comparing the two teams and 
their respective games played so far, 
the neutral person would expect a 
very hotly contested battle to be 
staged on the Skibo Field on October 
28th. Last Saturday Bethany defeated 
Rutgers and the week preceding that 
game Grove City allowed Bethany 
only two hard-earned touchdowns. The 
clash between Alleghenys strong war
riors and the Grove City Crimsons re
sulted in a victory for Grove City by 
a 21-12 score.
Now that the Grove City team has 
won-its largest game and is still with
out casualties, it should be in the 
pink of perfection to tackle the Tar
tan machine.
Coach Williamson of the Grove City 
Crimsons, has confidence that his few 
star3 will do more than make a favor
able showing. Captain Bible of the 
challenging team plays a hard game 
and is expected to do much gaining 
around the ends. Two otber very re
liable players developed by Coach 
Williamson are Keck and Douds, the 
former a fast man on end runs and 
the latter noted for his ability to com
plete forward pases.
With the exception of Captain An
derson, Brumbaugh, Taylor, and a few 
more regulars who are not on the 
casualty .list, Coach Wally Steffen will 
probably start the game with the same 
lineup as with Thiel College.
SCORE BOARD OF OUR I 
FUTURE OPPONENTS
With two hard games yet on our 
schedule -and still somewhat m the 
dim and distant future, the idea of 
how the dope stands on some of our 
approaching games comes to mind. Of 
course there are these things we call 
upsets that happen frequently and 
therefore we cannot look too much to 
past performances as predictions for 
the future. However, here are the 
scores of some of our coming oppo
nents:
Watching Our Opponents:
Grove City .... 0 Bethany ...........14
Grove City ....21 Allegheny.........12
Allegheny ....... 0 Colgate ............19
Allegheny .......39 Niagara ............ 0
Allegheny .......12 Grove City ...21
Penn State ....54 St. Bonaventure 0 
Penn State ....28 William & Mary 7
Penn State___20 Gettysburg .... 0
Penn State ....32 Lebanon Valley 6
Penn State ___33 Middlebury----- 0
Notre Dame ...46 Kalamazoo .... 0
Notre Dame . . .26 St. Louis......... 0
Notre Dame ...20 Perdue ............. 0
Notre Dame ...34 DePauw .......... 7
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
 IBellefonte Gridders 
Defeat Plaid Plebes
A GAME LITTLE TEAM
Thats the compliment were paying Thiels scrappy bunch that did its 
best against a heavier and more experienced team. The Greenville men 
fought hard and it is to their credit that the score was not any higher than 
it was. The Steffenites unloosed such a series of bewildering plays that at 
times the spectators could not tell who was carrying the ball. It gave Wally 
a chance to try out some new plays and also to test out some of his substi
tutes under fire. The plays worked fine and the second string men acquitted 
themselves nobly, relieving the judge of a few of his worries, about subs.
THE KILTIES ARE COMING
So say the Pittsburgh newspapers, and why not? The movement is 
under way to make our baud* the distinctive college band in the country. 
Various money-raising plans are being developed and it is hoped that both 
the undergraduates and alumni will be enthusiastic in their support of these 
things. What a traditional air it would lend to Dear Old Tech to see a baud 
of kiltie-clad players go marching down the street to the tui\e of "Fight for 
the Glory of Carnegie.
G. G. BECKNELL TO SPEAK 
AT PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
THE HARRIERS VICTORIOUS
Again it looks as though we might have a cross-country outfit worthy of 
giving Cornell and a few others of note a stiff battle. This opportunity will 
come both at the Syracuse Invitation Meet and at the Intercollegiates. Sat
urdays victory was merely a good start and we expect to see it repeated in 
| todays triangular race with Allegheny and Bethany. Come out and watch 
our runners show their heels.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL
IS NOT SCIENTIFIC
First Row: What! Cant I even
get a ticket in the bald-headed row?
Ticket Clerk: Sorry Sir, but you
see this show is claimed to be a hair 
, raiserExchange.
Grace Reformed Church
Sunday School...........9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship......11 oclock
Social Hour for Students and 
our Young People at 6:15 P. M.
Luncheon, 15c.
Christian Endeavor, 7 P. M. 
Evening Services, Question 
Box and Sermon at 7:45.
All students heartily invited. 
Seats Free.
(Continued From Page One.) 
spective of college, . department or 
class. How favorable this presenta
tion will be will depend very largely 
upon the support which the Journal 
receives from the student body.
In conclusion let us say that the 
true purpose of the Journal is to rep
resent Carnegie in the field of colle
giate technical publications. Our no
blest aim and our sincerest hope is 
that, we may do her justice. If we can 
present Carnegie and her work to the 
world in a true clear light, then we 
may feel that we have gone far in 
accomplishing our object. On the 
other hand if the Journal is not the 
best that Carnegie students can make 
it, if it does not do justice to Car
negie ideas and ideals, then it has 
failed of its purpose and is unworthy 
of the name it bears.
Will you help us boost the Journal? 
think it over and talk it up. In the 
meantime watch for the first issue 
out November 15 and subscribe how!
THE PLAID DOPESTER
Interfraternity nasket ball is to have a new status this year. It is to 
be run under the direction of the Y, making it a student activity rather 
thau a privately run organization. The plan as worked out will benefit both 
the Y" and the leagues. We are predicting a banner season for this ac
tivity.
In talking with an old Penn State player the other day, he casually men
tioned that the Carnegie Tech and Navy games were States two toughest 
remaining battles. We thoroughly agree with him on the former.
According to a point system of ranking for football in 1921 which ap
peared in a recent athletic magazine, Carnegie was ranked 22nd, just below 
 Pitt, while W. & J. was up in first place. Were beginning to wonder what 
its going to look like for the present season.
Cristoff Out of Game With 
Broken Collar 1-one
Although the Tartan Plebes were 
defeated last Saturday by the Belle* 
font AcadengsJ team they were by no 
mean's disgraced. The final score was 
13-0 with tho Plebes fighting with all 
their strength up until the last 
whistle had blown. Bellefonte out
weighed the Plebes many pouuds to 
the man and this extra weight count
ed for a great deal in the socond 
half.
During the first half CristofL' was 
the most consistent ground gainer 
for the Plebes. His runs were made 
around the ends as it was difficult 
for the light Plebe line to make holes 
through that of their opponents. In 
the second quarter, the Bellefonte 
team rushed the ball straight down 
the field but were held for downs 
with the ball only one foot away 
from the goal. Cristoff kicked the 
ball out of danger and the half end
ed a few minutes later.
Bellefonte started the second half 
by concentrating their attack on the 
line bucks. Kramer and Morgan, 
plyaying the ends for the Plebes, 
threw tlio Bellefonte backs for losses 
time and time again but the line 
could not hold and they forced their 
way straight down the field, Hill fin 
ally going over for the first touch
down. The second touchdown was
It begins to look as though some of our athletes would have to kick a j scored in about the same way, the 
few goals and put across some touchdowns to run up a satisfactory score  Bellefonte backs taking turns at hiton their scholastic standing. Buck up boys, and dont let the faculty catch 
you fumbling.
Carnegie Tech vs. Pitt, 
wouldnt hold the crowd.
What a battle it would be. Forbes Field
WERE WONDERING
How this column strikes you. Does it execute its purpose? Someono 
says that the average college student always turns to the sporting page of a 
newspaper first. If thats the case he must expect to find something of par
ticular interest there. The present athletic staff is doing its best to main
tain the high standard that was set by last years regime. --We dont know 
what the result is for as yet there have been no criticisms or compliments. 
Of course this column is more or less one of personal opinions but still it 
| is open for suggestions.
AGITATION FOR SCOTCH
DRESS FOR BAND INVOLVES
SERIOUS PROBLEMS
(Continued From Page One.) 
area to cleanse off the Pittsburgh 
soot!
Morality to the Rescue.
We are not at all sure the local 
Purity League will stand for such a 
radical dress reform. We understand
| favor of going into the thing tliorj oughly, or not at all. In order to be 
truly Scotch, we suggest that the 
members of -the band take a corre 
spondence course in Practical Scotch, 
and when attending the next football 
game in their national costume, be 
able to sing Roamin in the Gloamin, " and "The Waggle O Tho Kilt, 
with ihe best of them!
An thatll be ah o that!
Freshie: Please mother, may I
Soph.: "Let me go, mother. Ill,be 
in by eleven.
Junior: "Im going.
Senior: "Good night. Leave the
door unlocked.
SKIBO FOOTBALL MACHINE
SWAMPS THIEL COLLEGE
(Continuod From Page One.) 
then recovered the ball on Thiels 20 
yard line. Lamb a little later took 
the ball through center for another 
touchdown. By this time tho wear
ers of tho Plaid soemod to have 
formed the habit, an,! by tho end of 
the half had totaled six touchdowns 
and scored in iill 40 points to none for 
the opposition.
It is hardly worth while to go into 
the details of each touchdown. Suf
fice it to say that tho final score was 
59-0, as has been stated. Lamb made 
four touchdowns, Weir man and Rob
ertson two each and Szold one. Com
fort made four points from placement 
kicks and Woirman drop-kicked one.
Pittman did good work In tlio baokflehl. He has been working hard all 
season for a chance to show lila abil
ity, and caino across in fine shape 
Saturday. He was handicapped at 
the first of the season by an injured 
hip. The work of Lamb needs no 
comment; his line plunging was good, 
thats all. A1 Woirman and Dummy 
Szold covered themselves with glory, 
too. Both of them ran wild at times 
and consistently ripped off long gains. 
Kristoff, Donahuo, Mofort, C. J. An
derson, McCullum, and Bastian all 
got a chance to show their stuff, and 
they didnt disappoint anyone.
, It was a wild affuir from a Plaid 
viewpoint, but the lads from MerceV 
county fought their heads off. and 
took their medicine bravely. Christ
man, Smith, and McCoy at time 
played brilliantly, but were up against 
too much opposition. Thiel may 
swamp somebody some time, but it 
will be a long time before she ac
quires the finesse displayed by a Car
negie Tech aggregation. The line-up:
Tech59 Thiel0
Potter............... L. E....................Dufford
ZeIt................... L. T.................Jennings
Comfort ....... L. G................Berkman
Irwin................. C...................Mitchell
Rosenbloom ... R. G......................Johns
Sprinkle............ R. T.........................Bell
Godden..............' R.-E.................i.Petty
Robertson........ Q. B...................Stanton
Newman -------- L. H. .......... Smith
Pittman............ R. H.............Christman
Lamb................. F. B....................McCoy
Score by quarters:
Carnegie Tech........20 20 6 1359
Thiel College........ 0 0 0 0 0
SubstitutionsKristoff for Comfort, 
Wierman for Robertson, Mefor for 
Godden, C. J. Anderson for Irwin, 
Donahue for Newman, Szold for Pitt
man, McCullum for Lamb, Bastian for 
Donahue, Mould for Dufford, Bell for 
Johns, Metz for Jennings, Justice for 
Berkman, Harter for Mitchell, Zundel 
for Bell, Dufford for Mould.
Touchdowns  Robertson 2, Lamb 
4, Wierman 2, Szold.
Point from touchdownComfort, 
from placement, 4; Wierman, drop 
kick, 1.
OfficialsReferee, Wymard, George
town; umpire,. Connelly, Pitt; head 
linesman, Cadigan, Syracuse.
Time of quarters15 minutes.
SCIENCE PLEBES MEET TO
DISCUSS PLANS FOR YEAR
The Science Freshmen held a class 
meeting Wednesday In room 209. 
President Mills took office and con
ducted the meeting. Trials for a 
Freshman cheerleader were held. 
Meredith and Seamon were elected.
The matter of a Plebe orchestra 
was discussed, and tryouts will be 
held for an orchestra and a quartet 
as well.
ling the line and usually making 
substantial gains. (Hill scored the 
second touchdown and drop kicked 
the extra point from tho the 20-yard 
line. This made the final scoro 13 to 
0 r.s tho first extra point was not 
scored, Bellefonte being offside.
Too much credit cannot bo given 
tho Plebes for their gaino light 
against their heavier and more ex
perienced opponents. Campbell at 
center and Kramer1 and Morgan at 
tho ends played brilliant football 
throughout tho game, while Crlstoh 
and Amahs led the attack for the 
backfloid. Cristoff suffered a broken
collar bone in tho fourth quarter and
his loss will bo severely felt In tho 
next low games.
Bellefonte Academy.13
Tech Plebos0.
Blackburn...........L. E.......Kj-amor
1^11 ,..................L. T.................... GIVD
Vamhoe ..............L. G................... Road
Buclihanon ..........C................... Gunnel
On Friday, October 13th, Professor 
J. B. Natlumson spoke on tho subject 
'of Isotopes." The methods of posi
tive ray analysis used by J. J. Tliomson aud his associates were described. 
Their results indicate that, with the 
exception of hydrogen, the elements 
that have been so far tested are made 
up of atoms whose atomic weights are 
whole numbers when that of hydrogen 
is taken as sixteen. Chlorine there
fore seems to be made up of isotopes 
of atomic weights 35 and 37, respecti\*bly. This is a subject of great in
terest both to physicists and chem
ists.
On Friday, October 20th, Mr. R W. 
Boreman showed experiments devised 
by King of McGill University, to illus
trate the interaction of atom's. These 
experiments showed some beautifully 
regular distributions of spherical 
magnets, -as well as movements sug
gesting a similarity to the Brownian 
Movements.
Mr. E. M. Pugh described some work 
of Bailey on the change ol; high-fre
quency resistance of metals with the 
amount of absorbed gas. These ex
periments wore most ingeniously per
formed and appear to indicate largo 
changes of resistance under tho cir
cumstances indicated.
On Friday, October 27th, Professor 
Gl G. Becknell, of tho Physics Depart
ment .pf the University of Pittsburgh, 
will describe some work done by him
self and Dr. Coulson on "Diffraction 
Evolutes and tho Prediction of Diff< ractlon Patterns. Ho has about tlfty 
j slides illustrating very beautiful diff' 
ractlon effects. All Interested are cor
dially invited to attend tho mooting 
which will bo held in 113 Scionco at 
4:30 P. M.
MENORAH SOCIETY
HOLDS MEETING
Archibald 
Mosco .. 
Schmidt 
Amann . 
ONoill .
.. Scholl .. : Beodo 
. Morgan 
. Cristoff 
. Amann 
Mohr man 
Van Attn
0 0 0 
G 713
Quinn .................R. H
Berkos .................F...............
Score by periods:
Tech PloboB..'..........o 0
Bollofonto .................0 0
SubstitutionsToch Plobos., Bowors 
for Scholl, Cook for Van Atta, Scholl 
for Bowers, Bowors for Scholl, Irodmoro for Road, Van Atta 'for Cook. 
Bloom for Cristoff, Eseli for 
Amana, Bollofonto: La Boll for 
Qu'lnn, Hill for Borges, Quinn for 
O'NoiH, Breen for Hill, Joannowino 
for Vnmhee, Van Horn for lloll
Borges for Bi-eon. Touchdowns...IIII
3. Tries for points- 11 ill J (dropkick.) ReforeeBriggs. Umplre-- 
Mosos. Hoad linesmanFink. Tlmo 
of periods15 minutes.
Tho first mooting of tho year was 
hold by tho Monorail Society last 
Wodnosday ovonlng at tho Rodof Sha
lom Tempio at Fifth and Morowood 
avenues. Eloctlons for olllcory- for 
tho current year wore made with tho 
following results: President, M. A.
Rosotibloorn; vico president, Slier 
mor; treasurer, II. Lofkowltz ; rcord 
lug secretary, Miss Stoln, and cor 
rospondlng secretary, Miss Sara Kup 
lan. Tho business mooting was fol 
lowed by a cliinco.
to bo a strong demand on tho part 
ofmen and momon who are omployod 
during tho day for admission to our 
night classes. I attribute thin ohlolly 
to tho splendid laboratories and shops 
that wo possoss, and to tho Instruc
tion that Is given by tho specialists 
in our faculty.
GLEE CLUB HAS HOPES
FOR LARGER TURNOUT
DR. BAKER AT ASSEMBLY
OF NIGHT SCHOOL
Continued From Pago One. 
edge. They are often men who hold 
responsible positions and who wish 
to mount still higher in their respec
tive organizations. They are, for the 
most part, enthusiastic student? who 
know what they want and who are 
willing to devote their spare time for 
a period of several years in order to 
obtain that aducation which they de
sire.
"The Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy is doing a public service in giv
ing to the young men of Pittsburgh; 
the opportunity to advance them
selves professionally by studying in 
its evening classes, said Dr. Baker 
in his address. We consider our 
evening classes a most important 
part of the Institutes work. It is a 
phase of education in which the 
founder was deeply interested. That 
our faculty regards -this branch of in
struction as important is shown by 
the fact that the head of nearly every 
department in the College of Engi
neering gives a course to our night 
students.
The spirit^of these men is earnest, 
and they, of course, have few oppor
tunities for the diversions of college 
life. They are able to turn into earn
ing power what they learn in the 
class room and laboratories and 
shops. We welcome these men most 
heartily, and we want them to foel 
that they are an essential part of the 
institution,
"This year we are publishing for 
tho first Limp a semi-monthly paper 
for the benefit of tho night students. 
Their Interests are so dlvorso that It 
Is (II III cult to weld thorn Into a homo
geneous body. Wo find It .dificult, 
therefore, to bring them together at 
our assemblies, and we shall placo at 
thoty- disposal this now publication In 
order that they may keep in touch 
with what is going on at the Insti
tute.
Our enrollment is much larger 
than has been the case for several 
years, and In spite of the fact that 
the development of evening classes 
in the public schools and by other or
ganizations has gone much farther 
than was the case when our institur 
tions was foounded, there still seems
hoard on tho Campus this year, Tho 
Harvard Qloo Club horotoforo has 
boon tho only organization of Its kind 
to sing classical music, Tho Carnegie 
Club In now trying to surpass tho Har
vard club, and If It doos, thoro will bo 
liono hotter In tho country.
Big trips are slated for thin season, 
and tho manager says thoro aro biggor ones coming. Wo may,sob this 
year what was only. a. vision last sea
sonthe big Easier trip, through tho 
eastern part of tho country, stopping 
at Philadelphia, Washington and Now 
York. Rumors of a concert with a 
big girls college aro abroad, and this 
moans something to all gloo club men 
who woro at a small girls college last 
year I
Membership Is froo, come up on 
Sunday afternoon at 2:30 SHARI 
draw up a chair, sit down and sing. 
You will automatically become 
member. Romombor, tho goal100 
men by Sunday, October 29.
Lots see, married men all have 
better halves, dont they?
Yes.
Then what do bachelors?
Better Quarters.-r-Temple Univer
sity Weekly.
How aggravating It Is to have 
fountain pen or mechanical pencil 
balk just when you are ready to jot 
down a brilliant thought. Tell your 
troubles to Singer Pen & Gift Shop 
Jenkins
Plaid Harriers Run to 
Victory in Cincinnati
Dj'keman Led the Field. Five 
Plaids in First Six
The Camegio Tech cross-country 
team annexed its first victory last 
Saturday when it defeated tho Uni
versity of Cincinnati squad over a 
four and one-half mile course at Cin
cinnati. The final score showed Car
negie 19, Cincinnati 36. Dykenum 
was the star for the Plaid, breezing 
in for an easy first place followed by 
Crawford for Cincinnati. Tho noxt 
four men to finish were Tartan run
ners giving the iSkibos live out of 
t$b first six places.
The pace was fast and the run
ning was mostly over hard pave
ments and1 sidewalks giving Coach 
Beelers pvoteges some difficulty. 
The finish was in the big athletic 
stadium and as the first man came in, 
he was lustily cheered by the crowd 
that packed the stands for the Cincinnati-Ohio Wesleyan game. Tho 
course was considerably moro levol 
than the local course and this proved 
to be somewhat of a disadvantage 
for tho Tartans.
The runners finished as follows: 
First, Dykoman, Carnegie; second, 
Crawford, Cincinnati; third, Green
law, Carnegie; fourth, Tubbs, Carnogio; fifth, Mendenhall, Carnegie; 
sixth, Sampson, Carnegie; sovontli, 
Anoshansel, Cincinnati; eighth, Vir
tue, Cincinnati; ninth, Hindoror, Car
negie; tenth, Abeckorlo, Cincinnati. 
Time, 21:45 1-10.
Following the race, Coach Boolor 
aud tho squad woro entertained at a 
banquet at tho Hotel Hilton by tho 
nowly organized Cincinnati Clan. 
Tho old grads wore enthusiastic ovor 
tho showing made by tho Plaid 
harriers.
This afternoon Alloghony and Beth
any will bo mol, In a triangular event 
over the Schonloy Park course. Tho 
start Is sqhedulod for 1:30 in front 
.of Maggio Murph. Alloghony finish
ed socond In a trlnngumr moot last 
year In which West Virginia was 
tho third entry. Little Is known or 
tlio ability of tho Bethany squad but 
II. will no doubt pul; up a good race. 
A largo numbor of ohookors will ho 
needed on tho course and any Fresh
man or others who can bo on hand 
at 2:10 aro urged to prononf lliomaoiyos and holp out tlio managomont.
ST. ANDREWS EVANGELICAL 
LUTHERAN CHURCH 
Center and Morewootl Avonuon.
Henry P. Eokhardt, Pnntor.
Serviceli: 10: If* A, M. aud 7: 15 
I. IVI. All noats free. On and 
after October 21), there will bo a 
-1:80 Vospor Service Instead nr 
at 7-in I1. M. Sunday School 
and Bible Classes for adults and 
young people, 9:30' A. M. Tho 
Church extends a. cordial wel
come to all studenti,i of Tech.
FALL UNDERWEAR 
We Have Your Style and Size.
C. A. Heimerf
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBE8 STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 25, 1922
Alumni Federation Plan 
For the Coming Year
Outline The Aims and Ideals 
They Have in View
The Alumni Federation aims to be 
the medium between the college and 
the alumnus; that is, the duty of the 
Alumni Federation is two-fold.
First, the Federation keeps its fin-- 
gers on the pulse of the college and 
transmits news of any change of con
dition for the better or worse ,to the 
waiting alumni.
The second duty is complex and in
cludes:
1. Keeping in touch with the alum
ni and what they are doing.
2. Encouraging the alumni to send 
in criticisms and constructive sugges
tions for the betterment of the col
lege and the Federation.
3. Keeping the alumni interested 
in the steady, upward progress of the 
college.
Therefore, the college cannot afford 
to lose touch with its alumni. It 
must progress along the same lines 
and at the same rate as those divi
sions of the outside worldbusiness, 
commercial, engineering, industrial, 
artistic or scientificwhich it aims to' 
serve.
The college should not only keep 
abreast of the times but must grope 
ahead into the unknown and lead the 
way.
Each one of the tasks, outlined 
above, is a man-sized job, and the co
operation of the alumni, .thinking and 
acting collectively, is vitally neces
sary.
Lend your support and watch the 
development of your Alma Mater. 
Prove to us that you are interested. 
JOIN the Alumni Federation! If you 
are delinquent, $4.00 will put you in 
good standing. If you are not delin
quent, ?2.00 will keep you in good 
standing and entitle you to the Tar
tan and C. I. T. Alumnus for the com
ing year. Make checks payable to 
G. L. Tilbroolc, treasurer.
Section of Penn-State Train 
to be Reserved for Alumni
The W. and J. game on October 14 
brought out the fact that Carnegie 
Tech Alumni are greatly interested 
in  the achievements of the football 
team. Alumni, who were confident 
that the Plaid would make a good 
showing came from many out-of-town 
places to see this game. On Novem
ber 11, Armistice Day, when Penn 
State will be played, it is expected 
that many more will be in evidence 
as this day is a legal holiday.
Preparations are being made to run 
a special train of at least five hun
dred rootex-s for a special rate of 
$6.20. The train will have Pullman 
accommodations and will leave the 
Pennsylvania station about 7:30 a. m.
In order that all of the Alumni 
may be assured of accommodations, 
it will be necessary for them to 
notify the Graduate Managers Office 
of the size of their party and whether 
J Pullman reservations are desired, 
j This is especially important and all 
j Alumni intending to go on the Spe' cial must get in touch with the Ath
letic Office at once.
KeDarling, Ive made up my 
mind, to stay at home.,1 
'SheToo late, Ive made up my 
face to go out.The Black and Ma
genta, Otterbein College.
PITTSBURGH ALUMNI ARE
REQUESTED TO PAY DUES
Pay up your Clan initiation fee of 
$2.00 and get your name on the new 
Pittsburgh Clan Business Mens Di
rectory. Every Carnegie Tech-graduate and former student of one year 
or more is eligible to have his name 
in the directory if he is a member of 
the Alumni Association and has paid 
his $2.00 Clan initiation fee.
If any paid-up members were omittead from last years directory, please 
drop a line to A. J. I-Iynd, secretary, 
Pittsburgh Clan, C. I. T.
ALUMNI ARE URGED'Alumnus Comments on the Carnegie Runners Dirie!Tickets For Notre fyrncTO BUY THISTLE testing Fucili tics ut W.&JWith Cincinnati Clan! Game 011 SaIe Next Week
Out-of-Town Clans Have Not 
Reported to Thistle 
Board as Yet
HALLOWE'EN FOOTBALL DANCE
The time is ripe for care-free Hal
loween parties, pumpkins and masked 
witches, not to forget their brooms.
Get your old hick costume out of 
the moth balls, your hard times cos
tume, if you have had any, or even 
last years Arts ball or Madri Gras 
get-up, and spend this Saturday 
evening after the Grove City game 
sliding to the best of music. If you 
can not find your old costume or 
think it might be chilly, get together
Subscriptions have started to. come 
in to the Thistle Board from the 
alumni. From all indications, the 
graduates heartily approve the Boards 
intention of making the year book a 
record of the schools growth and 
progress.
So far, however, the majority of 
the subscriptions have come from the 
Pittsburgh district. In order to ac
complish the purpose in view, name
ly to keep every graduate in touch 
with his Alma Mater, more responses 
must be had from the distant alumni.
The individual clans have not yet 
given the Board any reply. As the 
clans are organized primarily to keep 
alive the'spirit and traditions of Car
negie, it would seem that they would 
be among the first to write.
The presidents of the clans are 
urged to make an announcement rela
tive to the Thistle in their meetings. 
Action upon the purchase, of the year 
book should also be taken.
The Board hopes that every clari 
and.all the individual members will 
send in their subscription within the 
next two weeks. Receipts will be sent 
out immediately. Send $4.50 for the 
book, add 25 cents for postage if you 
live outside of Pittsburgh. Make all 
checks payable to Vincent Roy, Treas
urer. Mail that subscription to the 
1923 Thistle Board, Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology. The Board will 
do the rest. Help make the year 
book bigger and better than ever and 
do it now! .
The aftermath of that wonderful 
game (Saturday is that we were cheat{ ed out of victory by no less a person 
than Dame Fortune herself. But 
I wasnt it a grand old battle? And 
Ed., how did you like your seat?
I Last year we went to Washington 
in a most hum hie mood, and were 
seated at the end of the football field, 
I directly opposite the news boys to 
| view the same between the mighty 
i home team aud our own modest but 
! able cohorts. The home student body, 
I three hundred fifty strong, minus the 
seveut.v-five men on their small squad, 
the townspeople, and the home 
Alumni, viewed the game from the 
choice seats along the side-lines. Wo 
stood for it. This year the same 
thing happened.
Why cant we get them at Forbes 
Field on a day when Pitt is away, or 
at our little stadium? We could seat 
as many as they can, with the added 
advantage of teaching them the first 
law of entertaining visitors. If they 
came to Carnegie Tech 'for a game, 
would they get the sort of treatment 
accorded us the last two years? If 
they did I would be ashamed of be
longing to such an institution.
I know that this is the sentiment of 
at least part of the student body, and 
I believe that the students should be 
given a modicum, at least, of consid
eration.
a new one, as it will be necessary for 
admission, along with your Student 
Registration or Alumni Federation 
card and the usual price. And for 
more fun, wear a mask.
Hotel Clerk: With or without
bath, madam.
The Boy: Get it without, Mother.
This is a pleasure trip.The Uni
versity News, University of Cincin
nati.
Miss Zarobsky New Presi
dent. G. C. Smith Resigns
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON CLUB 
HOLDS SECOND MEETING
The Wednesday Afternoon Club, 
composed of the wives of the faculty 
members of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, held its second meeting 
of the year Wednesday afternoon in 
the parlor of the dormitory at Forbes 
and Woodlawn. First reports of the 
various committees outlining tho 
work for the coming year were sub
mitted as well as the presentation of 
a musical program, supplied by the 
children of the members. Mrs. Jo
seph Ii. James was In charge of tho 
program committee. Mrs. William R. 
Work presided as president.
The Wednesday Afternoon Club has 
been in existenco for about seven 
years since its inception at Carnegie 
Tech. Members are wives of the. fac
ulty members. Some of the members 
are also teaching at Carnegie Tech.
Engineering for the Buyer
It is not enough that electrical apparatus 
should be carefully conceived, skillfully 
designed, and exactingly manufactured.
Engineering, to fulfill all its functions, 
must go. beyond these necessary steps and 
do a still more enlightened service. It 
must apply the apparatus to its uses, so 
that not only in design and construction 
but in service as well, all the conditions 
that must be reckoned with are fully 
satisfied.
This function of Westinghouse appli
cation engineering covers many fields, and 
charges itself with many responsibilities. 
It is engineering that concerns itself with 
almost every aspect of business, central 
station, transportation, industrial, min
ing, electro-chemical, etc. It has the 
buyers interest constantly at heart.
Westinghouse Application Engineering 
works with salesmen, with buyers, with 
consulting engineers, with contractors, 
and with service and repair men; it finds 
and investigates new fields; it checks the
behavior of apparatus, old and new; it is a 
bridge over which information passes 
freely in both directions between West
inghouse and its thousands of clients and 
friends.
Be glad that you are to live and work 
in times when the spirit of service domi
nates commercial operations. The great
est change that has occurred in business 
in the last few decades has been in the 
minds of men. No longer need the buyer 
beware for it is now known that the 
sellers obligation reaches beyond the 
completion of the sale; and that it is 
both wise and right that every reasonable 
effort be made to give the buyer full 
value in both product and satisfaction. 
The practise of this policy requires engi
neering of the highest type in research, 
design, manufacturing and every other 
phase of Westinghouse operations, but 
nowhere to greater degree than in the 
field of application engineering, which is 
essentially engineering for the buyer.
W ) Westinghouse
^WESTINGHOUSE^ELECTRIC
Evidently the Cincinnati Clan is a 
real live organization, although it is 
a small one. The members of the 
cross country squad who ran the Uni
versity of Cinciiinati last Saturday 
down there, bring back a story of be
ing royally entertained by the Clan. 
After the race the team was the guest 
at a banquet at the Hotel Hilton. All 
the members of the squad gave short 
talks and when old grads were told 
that Wally Steffen was to coach foot
ball at Carnegie for several more 
years they were overjoyed.
The Clan members present were: 
G. C. Smith and wife, J. W. Batman, 
W. F. Kelly, Mary Zarobsky. Phylis 
McMarlin. Beth Porter, and R. E. 
Townsend. At the banquet G. C. 
Smith, the President resigned in fa
vor of Miss Zarobsky, who was very 
active in the original founding of the 
Clan. A joint meeting of the Cin
cinnati and Dayton Clans within the 
next month is being planned. An 
effort will be made to get Bill Pfouts 
as one of the speakers.
Carnegie Executives 
Former Football Men
Back in the days when Science 
Buildrfng looked like the Library 
Hut, when the Plebes were Plebes 
officially and otherwise, back in tho 
days when the Skibo was clean and 
the water from tho spring in front 
first began to run Carnegie Tech 
had football totuns. Maybe they didnt 
play tho big schools of the country 
or have
Wally Steffen to Coach Thom
But they played real football 
games. What is moro real1. Carnegie 
Tech men played in them.
A few stained records of tho Ath
letic Association moro than half a 
decade old toll many an interesting 
story of tho clnshos on tho rockbound gridiron. Few Realize that men 
now associated with tho school car
ried tho pigskin across tho lino 
while enrolled as students. An ac
count. of ono particular game con
tains moro than ono name of passing 
interest.
It was tho opening gumo of tho 
season. Tho field resembled tho 
Rocky Mountain range. A few Plebes 
could bo soon hero and there endeav
oring to take tho sharpness off the 
projecting rocks on tho gridiron. 
They woro being directed by an ex
ceptionally good looking chap who 
appeared to bo taking the role of 
assistant football nmnagor or In fact 
several assistant football managers 
Ho hurried out with drinking water 
for tho playors, directed tho rock 
breakers, took tickets at tho Rate 
and between broaths Cooled with the 
scoro iboard. Ho was a promising 
youth, one who was suro to make 
tho managers job. Ho was none
other than tho person of Frank H. 
Haaren then plain Frankie.
Now ho ocoupios tho position of
Graduate Manager of Athletics.
Twolvo yours ago ho performed as 
assistant football manager to tho Carneglo Toclmlcal Schools football team. 
Haaren was not tho only well known 
Tech man who performed In that 
Kame. Shortly boforo tho game was
about to start tho Carnoglo Tech
team came on tho field. One head
stood out above the others but not 
the head of a man in unifoi*m. None 
other than the old standby and 
bench hound Cap Dosey.
The eleven that wont on the field 
at the whistle flashed many a famil
iar form. From kickoff none other 
than C. L. Tllbrook, or Tillie of 
the Alumni Office carried the ball to 
within a few yards of the opponents 
goal.
Many a name more or less familiar 
about the campus were contained In 
tho list of eliglbles sent to the op
ponents before a game.
Not only football but other sports 
had their share of men who are now 
prominent around the school. Our 
present registrar, Alan Bright, for
merly starred as a prominent hockey 
player on one of Carnegies earlv 
teams way back when Tech put out 
first-class hockey teams.
All reservations will bo filed in the 
order reeeivod and will be so tilled.
Box seats ...........................................$2.50
Reserved seats ............................... 2.00
General admission ........................ 1.50
Student book good for................... 1.00
Alumni book good for general ad
mission. or Alumni book and $1.00 tor 
reserved seat.
Reservations must be accompanied 
by check, express or post otllce money 
order, and should bo for the exact 
amount to cover the tickets ordered, 
minus credit due for coupons returned 
with order.
Makes all chocks payable} to Frank 
H. Haaren, treasurer.
Orders for tickets must be accom
panied by a selt'-addressed stamped 
envelope.
Tickets will be ready for distribu
tion in about two weeks. For further 
information concerning ticket distri
bution, write Captain Frank II. 
Haaren, C. I. T.
Remember: FIRST CHOICE is
givon to holders of 1022-23 athletic 
books students, faculty and paid-up 
members of the Alumni Federation.
THE HOOT MON NAME OF
NEW GREEK RESTAURANT
"TECH NIGHT" AT THE
SIXTH PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
On the evening of Sunday, October 
22, the Sixth Presbyterian Church, 
situated on the corner of Forbes and 
Murray, held a Tech Night service. 
The Rev. B. F. Farber, rector of the 
church, gave an appropriate talk, and 
the church quartet rendered some fine 
music.
One of the evenings features was 
the singing by the Carnegie Men's 
Glee Club. This was the first appear
ance of this organization this year, 
and prior to this Sunday, they have 
been together twice, A good outlook 
for the coming season Is evident, and 
with the help of tho, members, Mr. 
Edward Rhell will make tho club one 
of Pittsburgh's greatest choruses.
At last, E Do Colas Greek restau
rant. has received a real, original and 
undisputablo title, Tho loot Mon, 
as tho result, of the contest in which 
some score hungry Carnogians vainly 
or successfully racked their brains 
to supply tho missing nom-do-plume 
for tho now chop house.
A committee consisting of throo 
Tartan editors judged tho sugges
tions while Indulging in a meal at 
tho Greeks oxponso.
A prize of two meal tlckots 1ms 
beoti awarded to the winner, but un
fortunately Mr. Do Colas has forgot
ten this lucky individual's name and 
can only state with certainty Chat 
it appouredi to ho a co*od.
Y. M. C. A. MEMBERSHIP DRIVE 
SJARTS TODAY WITH TALKS
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Franklin heads this committee.
It has boon arrangod for each as
sembly of tho diffrent colleges to 
havo a faculty mombor and a committooman addross tho assembly on bohalf of tho Y. Professor Dibble, fol
lowed by Irwin, will speak to tho In
dustries students on tho advantages 
of tho Y. In Sclonco Assembly, Pro
fessor Kirkpatrick and Sprinkle will 
explain tho virtues of tho "Y, and 
urgo tho studonts to Join, Tho cam
paign In Arts will bo inaugurated by 
Profonsor Ellis and Franklin. v
Immediately after assembly, tho 
mombors of tho onrollmont committee 
will start tho canvass of their sets 
Lions.
Tho plans for tills campaign wore 
laid Tuesday night, October 2-1, at an 
enrollment dinner. All members of 
tho oommlttoo woro present and dis
cussed tho compalgn and laid tholr 
plans. Each man rocolved his in
structions and assignment, at this din
ner. They, the host, had arranged 
for Dr. Baker and Mr. W. 9. Van Dyke, 
of the Pittsburgh Realty Company to 
glvo an enthusiastic talk to the mom
bors of tho oommlttoo; Both of theso 
gontlomon rosponded with a very Intores tin g talk. Professor Dennison 
actod as toastmaator on tho occasion.
A thormomotor will be posted In 
tho cafelorlu, Avliich will show tho 
progross of tho campa Inn by schools 
and sections, each day.
The Y Is hoping and planning for a 
ono hundred por cent Carnogio mem
bership. In view of tho groat things 
that the "Y has done for Ihe student 
body, tho loast that tho studont body 
can do for the "Y Is to give it their 
unqualified support. Membership In 
the local Y" admits the member to 
all social functions of tho Pittsburgh 
Y.
Do not wait for a member oi the 
enrollment committee to speak to you, 
but hunt him up and give your two 
dollars, or more, and tell him you are 
fairly and squarely behind the Y. 
It is up to you to help the Y realize 
their hopes and certainly no one can 
say that the Y does not deserve to 
realize them. So, Carnegie men, lets 
go.
Bill Says:
Thiel College offered very llttlo op
position to the onslaught of the Tar
tan grlddors. Tho team did not neod 
the constant cheering and support oi 
the student body to bo victorious 
Saturday. As a result tho cheering 
was what ono might call disgraceful 
for a college the size of Carnegie 
Tech.
Perhaps the cheering was not need
ed but think of tho scrubs and sub
stitutes who went in tho game Sat
urdaythe men who in years to 
coino will carry tho pigskin across 
tho Hue and carry Carnegie Tech to 
gloryand then realize what a little 
cheering meant to them. Some wero 
now to tho gamethey played admir
ably and deserved your unbounded 
support and cheering.
No matter how easy tne gaino 
may bo, no matter how far Carneglo 
excels tho opponent, it Is. YOUR 
duty as a Carnegie man or woman 
to cheer. Tho subs need It more 
than the regulars. Let those fellows 
who usually occupy the bench hut 
who, when called upon, light, just at? 
hard as the regulars,' know that you 
are behind them, in these men aro 
represented Carnegie teams of the 
future.
This applies to tho entire student, 
bodyeverybody. As for tho Plebes, 
just one word in addition. Perhaps 
tho administration made a mistake 
in admitting a half dozen mon in tlio 
class of '26. They were the ones 
who left their seats and hurried over 
the road in back of the student sec
tion during tho singing of the Alma 
Mater. Woro you ono of them? Then 
listen to what 1 think of you. Any 
studont who leaves the field during 
the singing of tho Alma Ma tor Is un
worthy of tho name of the school 
and Is to the school what a traitor 
Is to his country. ,
RADIO
Brndloyr.tntn ..........................$1.85
Wootl-RotoiB ..............................<15
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Phono Schenloy <1545 
AUTO ACCESS01U1QH
BARNHARTS RESTAURANT
Real Homo Cooking 
116 OAKLAND AVE.
College Man
SWEATER COATS
8WEATER3 JERSEYS
HATS
STETSON TRIMBLE EAGLE 
TAILOR MADE
CAPS
SHIRTS
TYSON GORDON ROTARY 
(Ail Arrow)
UNDERWEAR
We Aro Exoliiclve Oakland 
Doaloro 
------forKjuno8ha-KJrc>Bed-ICrotch Union Suita 
ATHLETIC MEDIUM HEAVY
Davies & Hughes
OAKLANDS MENS STORE 
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater.
.Haanw GgHw.n AN EwGiAr
tnGtHwn JMC2 VIUUMVV5IT
Tho summer course of Architecture, 
in the College of Fine Arts at Car
negie Institute of Technology, under 
the supervision of Prof. II. Sternfleld, 
was very successful. A letter receiv
ed from the Beaux Arts, New York, j 
shows that Carnegie Tech headed the j 
list of awards for work done by the j 
students at summer school.
The Class "A problem was "An
Art Museum In South America, while 
the Class B problem was An 
Aquarium, which was to be built on 
a Private Estate. The Jury of 
Awards gave Carel B. Marks a first 
medal publication, and A. B. Reid a 
first mention placed publication, these j 
being the highest awards that the 
jury can give. The remaining 
awards were a second merlal to F. C. 
Dlsque, Carnegie Tech graduate and 
present Professor of Architecture at 
Penn State; Messrs. J. B. Blair, L. L. 
Brolda and E. M, Gearhart iirst m6ntion, and E. O. Anderson a mention.
Professor Sternfleld, a Paris prize 
scholarship man, dosorvos a groat 
deal of credit for tho showing those 
mon made. With him as head of tho 
department assisted by Prof, D, B, Ellengton, also a Paris prize scholarship 
man; Professor Rlcharrlson, a Wood
man scholarship man, tho Architec
tural Department of Carneglo Tech 
has ono of tho host faculties of this 
kind In tho country.
== Compliments, =
1 Skibo Inn 1
Ej
GO TO THE
| Tech Barber Shop
1 FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
 Five Barbers at your oervice. 
gj Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
IEMSMSJEMSMfSMSMSMSMSJSMSMSMSIS
01-FlavorLasts
