NITTANY LIONS IN 
TARTAN CAGE NEXT 
SATURDAY NIGHT
HAVE YOU RESERVED 
YOUR TAXI FOR THE 
JUNIOR PROM FRIDAY?
VOL. XVII. NO. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1923
STUDENTS TO 
INSPECT MINES 
AND FACTORIES
PRIZES OFFERED COLLEGE 
STUDENTS FOR ESSAYS ON
CANCELLATION OF DEBTS
Many Science Upperclassmen 
and Part of Industries to 
Take Trips Next Week  
Others Have Regular Work
FRESHMEN TO DRAW
The first week of the second se
mester has become known as inspec
tion week and it has become cus
tomary for the various departments 
of Science and a few in Industries 
to take trips through some of the 
large manufacturing plants and 
mines of this district during Inspec
tion Week.
However, this only applies to the 
upper-classmen, as the Freshmen in 
both Industries and Science have 
mechanical drawing the entire week. 
In some special cases it is necessary 
for upper-classmen to work in labor
atories, in order to cover the required 
work in the curriculum.
The Arts, M. M. and part of the 
Industries Division will start the 
regular schedule immediately after 
registration.
The following is1 a list of trips by 
the various departments:
Senior Electricals.
Monday, February 5A. M., Tunnel 
sub-station of Pittsburgh Railways. 
P. M., Taggart sub-station of Pitts
burgh Railways.
Wednesday, February 7A. M.,
Springdale Power Plast, Springdale, 
Pa. P. M., iColfax power plant, Col
fax, Pa,
Fridaiy, February 9A. M., and P. 
M., Jones and Laughlin Steel Works, 
Woodlawn, Pa.
Junior Electricals.
Monday, February 5A. M., Bra(Continued on Page Four.)
Engineer Illustrates 
Super-Power System
Electricity, My First Love, 
Says Mr. W. S. Murray
Wednesday evening, of last week a 
large group of interested men and 
women, among whom were only a few 
far-sighted students, heard Mr. W. S. 
Murray speak on The Super-Power 
System. Those who were present 
were' very much impressed with the 
faith of Mr. Murray in the future of 
electricity. Few will deny the possi
bilities for development of electric 
power, but still fewer have the vision 
and courage of their conviction to 
give up their life in the interest of 
this development. As Mr. Murray 
said: Electricity was my first love,
and we have been true to each other 
for nearly forty years.
Dr. Baker introduced the speaker 
who immediately plunged into his 
subject. 1-Ie rapidly passed over the 
development of the science of elec
tricity from the little lamp which our 
fathers knew to the mighty arc lights 
of today. Some very striking illustra
tions were given by Mr. Murray, one 
of which was that one of the modern 
50,000 kilowatt generators could sup
ply current enough to light lamps 
from here to the moon at intervals of 
two hundred feet with a brilliancy 
equivalent to that of the lamps in use 
in the year 1S85.
The speaker explained the forming 
of the Super-Power System in the 
east, taking in Boston, New York, 
Philadelphia, Washington and all the 
intervening cities. The difficulties 
overcome during the survey were 
passed over rapidly by Mr. Murray, 
and the plans for the future were en
larged upon. Stupendous projects are 
under consideration and await only 
the necessary capital to make them a 
reality. The possibilities for the de
velopment of the large waterfalls of 
the country, and the potentialities of 
these sources of power are so great as 
to almost frighten men unused to 
dealing with such figures. Mr. Mur
ray however, emphasized throughout 
his address that he did not believe in 
government ownership. Government 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Girls Senior Ball to be 
Held at University Club
The Girls Senior Ball which will 
be held the sixth of April in the Uni
versity Club is to be an all-Carnegie 
Girls' Ball.
Just as last year, the women of 
the Junior Class of Fine Arts were 
invited to participate in the Womens 
Junior Prom, and the precedent was 
established; this year, the invitation 
to the Senior Ball was extended to 
the Arts girls, and; of course, they 
accepted. With these events estab
lished as all-women functions, the 
feeling of division between the two 
schools is greatly eliminated.
Mary Marshall is general chairman 
of the ball committee, Frances Bur
rows, as vice president of the Senior 
Class of Arts, is sub-chairman of 
committees, and the remainder of the 
committees are chosen from the girls 
of both schools.
I The Institute of International Edu-;
I cation of New York City is conduct
ing a prize essay contest among un-1 
dergraduate students on The Cancel
lation of the Allied Debts. Prizes of 
$1E)0, $100 and $50 are offered for the 
three best essays. Contest closed 
March 15, 1923. Any student inter
ested can secure additional informa
tion at Dean Tar bells Office.
PLANS FINALLY 
COMPLETE FOR 
JUNIOR PROM
POETRY IN A CLASS BY 
ITSELF, BUT IT EXPRESSES OUR 
SENTIMENTS AT ANY RATE
SPHINX GRANTED 
NATIONAL HONORS
Chapter of Mortar Board, 
Womens Honorary, to 
be Installed
.Mortar Board, the only womens na
tional senior honorary in the United 
States, has granted a chapter to 
Sphinx.
Mortar Board was organized at 
Ohio State University and has spread 
mainly through the west. At pres
ent there are chapters in eighteen of 
the leading co-educational institu
tions, such as Northwestern Univer
sity, Michigan, Swartlimore, Cornell, 
Kapsas State,, etc. Members are 
chosen from the Junior class at the 
end of the Junior year on the basis 
of activities, scholastic standing, and 
leadership.
The local womens honorary, 
Sphinx, was organized three years 
ago and is composed of twelve mem
bers chosen from the Margaret Morri
son College and the College of Fine 
Arts on the basis of activities, schol
astic standing and personality. Mem
bers of the 1923 chapter are: Pris
cilla Allison, Frances Burrows, Lillian 
Coleman, Lillian Cowan, Helen Duncombe, Ray Fine, Dorothy Grant, Margarite Harmon, Marion Jones, Hor
tense Purdy, Eleanora Shomberg and 
Sarah West.
Miss Frances Burrows will go as a 
delegate to the national convention of 
Mortar Board to be held at Swarthmore College in Philadelphia, Febru
ary 2, 3 and 4.
Installation of the Carnegie Tech 
chapter of Mortar Board will take 
place later in the year.
Twenty-Seven Plebes 
Enter Carnegie Monday
The total number of applicants for 
admission to Carnegie at the begin
ning of the next semester is fortyseven. The practice of admitting stu
dents at mid-year was inaugurated 
here last year in response to a seem
ing demand for immediate admission 
to college by students graduating 
from high school at mid-year.
Of the forty-seven applications re
ceived twenty-seven have been ac
cepted. The remaining twenty are 
still under consideration. Some of 
these will be admitted upon pvesentation of their full high school cred
its, while some others will be admit
ted if they have successfully passed 
the examinations which were held 
last week.
Fourteen of the twenty-seven appli
cants which have been accepted are 
to enter Science, five to. enter Indus
tries, three Margaret Morrison, and 
five Arts. Of  the remaining appli
cants, eleven seek admission to Sci
ence, one Industries, six Arts and two 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Eight advanced standing students 
have been accepted. Four will en
ter Science. Two will enter Indus
tries, two Arts, and one Margaret 
Morrison.
MENS AND WOMEN'S GLEE
CLUBS HOLD TEA DANCE
Friday afternoon, January 26, the 
Glee Club of the Margaret Morrison 
College and the Carnegie Mens Glee. 
Club held a tea dance in the Union. 
This was the first occasion of its na
ture ever held on the campus, and 
was intended to promote better 
friendship and kindliness of feeling 
between the two organizations, now 
under the same director, Mr. Rheil. 
One meeting previous to this had 
been arranged, so that the Mens Glee 
Club might attend a rehearsal of the 
girls organization, and after this 
meeting it was thought plausible by 
the officials of the Mens Club to en
tertain the girls at this tea dance.
COSTUME ECONOMICS CLUB
HOLDS HONOR LUNCHEON
President Baker and Dean 
Breed Will Lead Grand 
March, Which Starts at 
9:30. Dancing: From 9:00- 
2:00
BUY FINAL TICKETS
President Baker imd Dean Breed 
will lead the grand march at the an
nual Junior Prom on Friday, Feb
ruary 2. The grand' march will start 
promptly at 9:30 p. m. Everyone is 
urged to be at the Schenley at that 
time, for the favors will be distribut
ed at the dose of the promenade.
Nelson Maples Orchestra will 
start their program at 9:00. The mu
sic has been arranged especially for 
this event and will include several 
special numbers. The orchestras 
quartet -will also be on the program.
The list of patrons and patronesses 
has been published in the Pittsburgh 
newspapers and is doubtless familiar 
to a majority of the students. The 
list includes the Deans of the four 
schools, the Dean of Women, the 
Dean of Men and the members of 
the Board of Trustees of Carnegie 
Institute.
Final tickets for the Junior Prom 
will be on sale in 'Central Building 
every day this week from 11:30 to 1:20, 
On Friday, a member of the commit
tee will be there from 11:30 to *1:30. 
Get your final tickets at once, for it 
will save a great deal of time and 
inconvenience on the night of the 
Prom.
Dinner will be served promptin'1 at 
12:00, midnight. The tables will be 
set for two couples. The committee 
(Continued on Page Four)
Though exams have hounded us, 
morning, jioon and night,
Every day of this week kept us up 
late at night,
And next week in its coming fore
casts more hard work 
With inspection Strips slated wo sure
ly cant shirk,
Though we ee nothing else ahead 
or behind,
Next week's Carnogio Tartan 11 be 
out right on time.
EGYPTIAN BELL 
OF KARNAK WILL 
TOLL AT KAPERS
FRANK HAAREN ON 
RAD TO RECOVERY
Will Not Resume Duties as 
Grad. Athletic Manager 
For Several Weeks
Coronation of King'Will Mark 
Height of Festivities. Plebe 
Architects Aid in Erection 
of Decorations
KING ARRIVES AT 11:30
GRAPHICA ANNOUNCES 
BANQUET FOR FEB.
The Grapliica will open the new se
mester with a banquet on Tuesday, 
February 6. This meeting will be a 
rousing get-together for the club to 
instill spirit into the members for the 
coming term.
Speakers are being engaged and en
tertainment is being planned for this 
rally of the printers. The place for 
the banquet has not been arranged, 
but it will probably be in one of the 
nearby apartment hotels. Alumni as 
well as members are urged to attend 
this banquet.
Mr. Hawkins, national director of 
the Department of Education of the 
United Typothetae of America, spoke 
to the members of the Department of 
Printing last Thursday afternoon. 1-Ie 
explained that the U. T. A. is an in
ternational association of employing 
printers, and gave its organization in 
detail. He also spoke of the U. T. A. 
trade school in Indianapolis and em
phasized the difference between the 
trade school courses and our degree 
course here.
The student studying the course in 
Fine Printing, taught by Mr. Carnett, 
hare received their equipment and 
will begin laboratory work soon. A 
new type of cabinet, a- Washington 
hand press, several fonts of type, and 
an assortment of metal furniture 
make up the equipment which has ar
rived.
Stanley L. Wessel, a Sophomore in 
the printing department, has left 
school because of the death of his, 
father. He will probably work in 
the plant of his father in Chicago.
Frank H. I-Iaaren, graduate man
ager of athletics, is slowly recover
ing from his recent illness, but it will 
be several weeks before he will be 
able to resume his duties.
Mr. I-Iaarens condition was brought 
about through overwork during the 
football season, a week after the 
Notre Dame giimo, lie had gone to 
Chicago, and when he returned, his
FRANK HAAREN
health was in a very oploted stato, 
which soon resulted in a complete 
breakdown.
This is his third year asi graduate 
manager of athletics. He was elect
ed to that position in April, 1920', and 
assumed the office on May 1, of the 
same year.
From 191.0 until 1914, Mr Haaren 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Promptly at 9 p. in., the bell of 
Karnak will toll and the people of 
Egypt will ensemble to celebrate the 
victories of our great king, Ramesis, 
who is returning from his successful 
conquests. Lords, vassals, slaves, 
dancers, musiciansall will bo to
gether for the grandest time in tho 
history of this tribe.
At nine the dancing in tho stroot? 
of Karnak begins and tho masked 
figures make merry until the king ar 
rives on the Hr30 express. Then tho 
music ceases and great shouting and 
noise will nccaim the king who has 
returned to his people.
The king pleased at the ovation 
given him, leads the triumphal pro
cession throuigh tho boulevards of 
Karnak. Bold youth as well as tlvo 
sages march and all aro supremely 
happy.
The coronation of tho king thon 
takes place with much sobriety. Boar* 
Johnson, the queen, thon crowns hoi 
mate oer the pate. The lucky ICIng 
Ramesis is not yot known, and ho 
will not bo until tho time of tho cor 
onation.
The king and tho queon with their 
slaves and attendants load tho pro
cession to I he theater where much 
ontertainmont is in store for tho peo 
pie of this strango and mystorious 
land. Kleos Kort is tho name of 
the show that is going on.
Mary Brown is to play Kloo and 
(Continued on Pngo Throe)
SUMMER COURSES OFFERED 
AT FRENCH UNIVERSITIES 
TO AMERICAN STUDENTS
Tho Committee For Educational 
Travel to Frauce Is offering vacation 
courses at French universities to tho 
faculty and students of American col
leges. An eight day journey through 
Franco Is included in tho arrange
ment. The cost of tho entire trip of 
72 days from New York to Now York, 
including the instruction, is approxi
mately G4S. Copies of tho program 
can bo secured at Doan Tarbolls of
fice.
DR. HAMERSCHLAG 
HEADS RESEARCH
Accepts Presidency of the 
Research Corporation at 
Recent Meeting
GAMBOL OF THE GUILDS 
TO BE HELD ON FEB, 23
CARNEGIE GIRLS DINNER 
RALLY BOOSTS ATHLETICS
G. L. Tilbrook, Alumni Sec., 
Leaves on European Trip
G. L. Tilbrook, executive secretary 
of the Carnegie Tech Alumni Asso
ciation, will leave New York today 
for Europe to conduct investigations 
of a confidential nature for the U. S. 
Department of Labor.
The Carnegie Tech official will visit 
France and Belgium^ and possibly 
Italy, Hungary, and Switzerland. His 
entire trip will consume about eightweeks, with plans to visit England be
fore his return. While abroad, Mr. 
Tilbrook -will take the opportunity to 
visit the American University Union 
in Europe, located at Paris, with the 
objective of establishing a direct con
nection with it for the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology graduates. One 
of Mr. Tilbrooks plans will be to in
vestigate the possibility of having 
American University Union foreign 
scholarships offered to graduates of: 
Carnegie Tech.
Mr. Tilbrook will also endeavor 
to revisit some of the scenes of his 
overseas service while serving as a
Tho officers of the Carnegie Girls 
Athletic Association are making plans 
for another dinner rally to bo hold 
early In tho second semester for tho 
purpose of boosting girls sports in 
Carnegie. This action was taken fol
lowing the dinner-rally, last Wednes
day, which proved to bo far more suc
cessful than had been anticipated. 
With an expected attendance of about 
a hundred, tho M. M. Cafeteria was 
swamped with a hundred and fifty 
and it was necessary to call on the 
Carnegie Commons to help accom
modate the crowd. Better accommo
dations, and a very interesting pro
gram are promised for the next din
ner rally.
At the last dinner-rally, Miss Bow
man brought up the plans for an intra-mural girls basket ball league and 
outlined the purposes. The plan was 
enthusiastically received and it is ex
pected that it will soon be put into 
operation. Deans Brown and Breed 
gave some very interesting talks em
phasizing the importance of girls 
(Continued on Page Three.)
The final dato has boon sot, tho 
Gambol of tho Guilds will tako placo 
February 23, , 1923. Tho committee 
has most everything arranged and 
making v preparations to malto tills 
year's danco ono of tho host dancoa 
of tho year. February 23 Is tho day 
after Washingtons birthday, a school 
holiday. Tho exams will all bo ovor 
tills woolc, when ovorybody will feel 
like dancing onco more.
Four years ago markodi tho first 
annual danco glvon by tho College of 
Industrlos. It was called Tho Frolic 
of tho Laborors. Tho girls wore white 
aprons and tho men wlilto ovoralls. 
This first danco was a falltiro as was 
that -of tho yoar following. Last 
year's commlttoo decided to give up 
tho Idoa of woarlng ovoralls, much to 
tho approval of tlio'entire school. Tho 
result was a big danco, with romarkablo success both financially and oth
erwise.
Tho commlttoo wants It to bo gen
erally understood that this is an all 
Carnegie Tech danco and exclusively 
for Carnogio Tech people. Outsldors 
will not have a chance to got in on 
tills dance. Too many outsldors aro 
taking advantage of the dances here, 
and this practice must bo done away 
with. Tickets will be sold by reliable 
salesmen who will see to it that only 
Carnegie men will be allowed to buy. 
No admission will be granted without 
a ticket.
American University Union 
Invites Use of Facilities
Annual Inter-Honorary Dance 
Scheduled For February 21
The Costume Economics Club of 
M. M. gave a luncheon in the cafeteria 
last Wednesday, in honor of Miss Ingersoll, who leaves in the near future 
for California.
The club had as guests of honor, 
Miss Ingersoll, Dean Brown, Miss 
Falia, Miss Francisco and Miss Yan 
Steenberg.
Ruth Barton, president of the club, 
presented the honor guest with a set 
of book ends in appreciation of the 
interest Miss Ingersoll has shown in 
the girls. The girls wish Miss IngerNITT a very bright future.
a captain in the aviation forces of 
the A. E. V.
SPEAKERS FOR NIGHT STUDENTS
Throughout the present night term 
Dr. Baker has been arranging for vis
its of prominent Pittsburgh business 
classes on Mondays. Representatives 
of the leading firms which employ the 
night students will visit the Institute 
during the next few weeks, and it is 
expected that a committee from Ro
tary and Kiwanis Clubs, as well as 
from other organizations, will inspect 
this phase of the work that we are 
doing.
The annual Inter-Honorary dance 
will be held in the Carnegie Union 
on the evening of February 21. Prep
arations are under way for what the 
committee hopes to be the equal of 
any former affair of Its particular 
nature.
The societies represented are: 
Sphinx, Tau Beta Pi, Tau Sigma 
Delta, Alpha Tau, Alpha Alpha Nu, 
Dragon, Delta Skull, and Druid. The 
dance is under the supervision of the 
Druids, from which body a commit
tee composed of E. C. Frazier, chair
man, and Don Gardner, is making the 
arrangements.
Tho plans of the committee have al
ready taken shape and are rapidly be
ing completed. Due to tho number 
of expensive affairs coming at this 
Reason, the Inter-Honorary dance will 
bo run as inexpensively as the na-j 
ture of tho event will pormit. Sev
eral attractive features will make this 
dance of particular interest , to those I 
eligible. The Collegiate Six has been 
engaged for the occasion. A special 
committee composed of Wayne 
Koppes and Dick Cutting is now de-1 
signing a novel and appropriate i 
scheme of decorations. Above all, j 
this is the Honoraries own dance.
Those who maV attend are all act-1 
(Continued o i Page Three.)
The American University Union, 
with which Carnegie Tech is connect
ed as a subscribing institution, cor
dially invites students and graduates 
visiting Europe, to make use of the 
facilities offered at the union offices 
at 1 Rue de Fleurus, Paris, and 50 
Russel Square, London, W. C. Lists 
of pensions and lodgings are kept and 
various social opportunities are of
fered. Access may be also obtained 
to the British Museum and other li
braries as well as to universities and 
other institutions of learning; candi
dates for degrees will find their way 
made easier by consulting, at Paris, 
Professor Paul van Dyke, director of 
the Continental Division, and at Lon
don, Dr. George E. MacLean, director 
of the British Division.
The annual bulletin of the union 
which has Just been issued shows that 
there were 1,348 registrations during 
the year at the Paris office, and ovor
1,239 at the London headquarters. 
Professor G. If, Nettloton of Yale, 
now acting president of Vassar, visit
ed tho union offices abroad during tltt.) 
summer on behalf of tho trustoos and 
his report, together with those of 
Professor van Dyke and Dr. MacLean, 
will be found Jn the bulletin, which 
may be obtained on application to the 
Socretary, Professor J. W. Cunllffe, 
Journalism Building, Columbia Uni
versity, New York City.
Professor Klar lectured on "House 
Design and Domestic Architecture 
for the Womens Club of Wheeling on 
Friday, January 19.
At a recent meeting at tho Re
search Corporation, Dr. Arthur A. 
Hamerschlag, former presldont of tho 
Carnegie Institution of Technology 
accepted the presidency of tho Re
search Corporation.
The directors are: Elon H. Ilookor, 
John J. Carty, T. Coleman DuPont, 
Frederick A. Goetze, Otto II. Kahn, 
Charlos D. Walcott. Floyd N. Scott, 
Dr. Ellwood Hondrlclc, Howard 
Polllon.
Tho Research Corporation is a pro
tege of tho Smithsonian Institution at 
Washington, tho first Research Insti
tution associated with tho United 
States Government and of which Dr. 
Charlos D. Walcott, is tho secrotary,
When Dr. Cottrell donated his pat
ents for electrical precipitation to 
tho Smithsonian Institution, Dr. Wal
cott found it advlsablo to organlzo 
tho Rosoarch Corporation, with which 
to bring those patents Into commor 
clal use. During its ton years of dovolopmont, tho corporation has main
tained a national position with roapoct to Inventors, constantly omplia 
sizing tlip guiding principle under 
which tho corporation hi opera tod 
that tho fruits of a dlscovory should 
mothor now dlscovoVlos.
It Is a non-profit sharing corpora
tion In which tho stockholders and 
directors aro without compensation. 
Profits and surplus Income must olth 
or bo glvon to tho Smithsonian In 
stitution or for oduoation and re
search. Its principal oflloo is In Now 
York City and Dr. Hamoraehlag has 
agrood to glvo It part of his time to 
Its executive leadership, although ho 
will rotaln lila residence and olllco in 
Pittsburgh.
Mining Student to Become 
Manager of Indian Colliery
In connection with tho Junior Min
ing student, S. K. Boso, tho following 
letter was rocolvod by the Mining 
Department from Chief Inspector of 
Minos In India, Boso Is being odur 
cated at Carnogio by tho KUiburij fi 
Company, Ltd., Calcutta, India, Opor 
ators of tho Thatal Iron & Steel 
Company's mines to learn tho Amer
ican molhods of mining and after 
graduation ho will return to India 
and booomo a manager of a colliery,
Tho letter leads as follows: 
President,
Carnogio Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
U. S. A.
Datod Dlianbad, 
15th December, 1922,
Sir:
In continuation of the correspon
dence resting with your letter, dated 
the 28th July, 1922, I have the hon 
our to Inform you that, at a meeting 
of the Board of Examiners for Col
liery Managers certificates in India 
held on 11th December, 1922, the de
gree of Bachelor of Science in min
ing engineering oC the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology was approved 
for recognition for tho purposos of 
Rules 32 and 33 of the rules for coal 
mines made under the Indian Mines 
Act, 1901.
I have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your most obedient servant,
R. R. SIMPSON (Sgnd.)
Chief Inspector of Mines of India.
REGISTRATION 
NEXT WEEK FOR 
ALL STUDENTS
Ninety-Five Dollar Fee Must 
be Paid By All Regular 
Students Registering For 
Second Semester Work
Girls to Rest An Hour Daily 
During Examination Week
A novel scheme is being tried out 
in M. M. In providing a daily recrea
tional hour during the exam week. 
Any girl who talks of the exams 
while in the Recreation Hall In that 
period will be expected to put a penny 
in a box provided for the purpose. 
The Y. W. C, A. will serve tea and 
cakes free of charge and all possible 
means will be used to make the girls 
forget the exams and enjoy them
selves. The rest period will be held 
between three and four overy day 
until Friday.
PR0FE880R NEI3EL DESIGNS
MEDAL FOR BUREAU OF MINE8
Professor Nobel 1ms designed a 
medal for tho mine rescuG work of tho 
United States Bureau of Mines. The 
medal was exhibited by the alumni of 
the American Academy of Rome in 
tho Department of Fine Arts, Car
negie Institute. Professor Nebel was 
a fellow of the American Academy 
from 1911-1918.
TO REGISTER IN LAB.
All students who were registered in 
the school during tho first semester 
are required to make a payment of 
!?95.00 at tho time of registration for 
their group. In addition all would-be 
graduates must pay five dollars for 
tho sheepskin, which they hope to re
ceive next June. All students must 
register in person and present the 
registration card for the first semes
ter as a matter of identification.
All studonts in the Colleges of 
Fine Arts, Margaret Morrison and In
dustries will register at Langley Lab, 
opposite the Central Building, on 
Monday, February fifth. The regis
tration will take place during the 
hours of 8:30 a. m. to 11:30 a. m. and 
1:00 p. m. to 4:00 p. m.
Due to the inspection trips held by 
tho upper classes in the Collego of 
Engineering the following irregular 
registration schedule will be main
tained.
Monday, 8:30 to 11:30 All 
Commercial Engineering Studonts, 
Sophomore Eloctrlcnl Englnocrlng 
Studonts, all Chemical Englnooring 
Students, Freshmen.
1:00 to 4:00All Chemical Enginoorlng Studonts, Sophomoro Electric
al Englnooring Students, Sophomoro 
Mechanical Engineering Studonts, 
Freshmen,
1:00 to 3:00First Yoar Coal Min
ing Students.
3:00 to 4:00Second Year Coal 
Mining Studonts.
Tuoaday, 8:30 to 11:30 and 1:00 to 
4:004-Junior and Senior IDlootrioal 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Students Vacation 
Earnings Reported
Nearly $10,000 Earned Dur
ing December
EnrnlngH of $MH4 wnro roportqil !>y 
the studonts' on part tlmo employment 
during tlvo month of Docombor to tho 
Employment Bureau, Of tills amount, 
women students earned $2,21.0 and 
inon studonts earned (17.305. Thht 
amount represents only that portion 
of earnings which has been reported 
to tho bureau. It Is estimated that, 
additional reports will Increase tlilu 
figure greatly. The demands for help 
during tho holiday period In Decem
ber exceeded the supply, and many 
of tho men students with homes out 
of the city remained ovor for tho 
groator part of their vacation period 
to oarn a fow extra dollars.
The largest Item of earnings was 
$1,032.70 reported by student "wait
ers." Next came miscellaneous labor, 
with earnings of $1,110.00, Students 
under this group worked during tho 
rush holiday periods as post office 
clerks, baggage dorks and handlers 
In railroad terminals, railway mail 
clerks, etc.
Another unusual occupation was 
servico as guardians of homes while 
the tenants were away for an after
noon or evening. Miss Merrill reports 
that there has been a noticeable In
crease in requests for this service, re
cently. A large number of students 
worked as salesmen and clerks in the 
local stores during the holidays, this 
accounting for a substantial porLlon 
of the earnings. Of the 304 new jobs, 
and 53 old, or permanent positions 
filled by the male students during De
cember, the following occupations are 
listed as the most important groups: 
Attendants, advertising solicitors, 
carpenters, chauffeurs, clerks, drafts
men, electrical work, gardeners, han
dymen, housework, messengers, paint
ers, printers, salesmen, laborers, tu
tors, teachers, waiters and ushers.
Miss HIbbs, in charge of the wom
en's placements, found new positions 
during last month for 31G students, 
and was able to fill only a compara(Continued on Page Four.)
Mr. Alford, Mining Engineer, 
Talks to Mining Students
"An option and a systematic sur
vey of the property In rospoct to the 
location of buildings, towns and 
oqulpment make up the preliminary 
development of a coal property and 
mine," said Mr. Alford In his looturo 
to the Mining Department last Fri
day afternoon.
Tho preliminary prospecting and 
aurvoy of the outcrop, quality of coal, 
regularity and thickness of hod, and 
tho distance from the market aro 
very essential Items and they should 
be most thoroughly inspected before 
starting further development. In 
some cases where the outcrops aro 
few, It Is advisable to put down bore 
holes to definitely determine the 
thickness of the underlying coal.
Mr. Alford is a consulting mining 
engineer and has a large amount of 
(Continued on Page Four.)
i/\

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1923
Published every week by undergraduates o! the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered In tho PostofDce of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
COMMENTS
GOLA8HE8 VS. RU33IAN BOOTS
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ...................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHiland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9148
KENNETH ARNOLD.............................................................................. Associate Editor 1
H. F. SIMPSON.......................................................................................... Associate Editor .
TelephoneSchenley 9143
H. F. DIETER ...................................................................................................... News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
H. H. WILSON...................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephonHazel 9350
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
It. B. KWLLIQR ............................................................................................ Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSI3, JR...........................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIBR............................................................................................ Special Writer
J. M. COOPER................................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephonSchenley 9211
J. C. MAJOR ....................................................................................... Circulation Manugor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKon/,Io, L. Hort/,man, M. S. Downes, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, F. T. Phelps,
ATIILETIC CONTRI BUTORS 
E. C. Fru'/lor, J. H. Forguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schucker, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
Laudlg, D. Moskovlt'/,, J. W. Metro, P. W. Rollly, R. It. Young and II. Glbaon.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho maleo up.
The Turtun welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will be withhold If desired. All nows Items must bo In the student 
postonico before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OlllooRoom 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Oillce hoursTuesday,
COLLEGE MEN LACK RELIGION
College men are not religious, says a prominent, Boston minis
ter. It seems as thongli he is right; judging Trom the lack oil re
ligious interest at Carnegie. It seems as though it is impossible to 
get even a respectable turnout at chapel. Tho majority oJi the men 
here do not oiten go to church, and some never attend any religious 
services.
Are American students becoming atheists? Perhaps not, but 
there seems to bo a disregard for Christianity in American educa
tion which will in time demoralize our Christian civilization. The 
trouble seems to be that religion is hardly ever discusscd in the class
room or on the campus, and when the subject is brought up there is 
a tendency to change tho topic.
Many religious bodies are trying to improve the condition; but 
are not making much progress, because there is a lack oil co-opera
tion by tho students. It would help the situation if each religious 
student would make it his duty to go to church or chapel and bring 
a friend.
THE WORK OF THE POINT SYSTEM
Tho Point System is being put into eilect this year. Some such 
system is nece.ssn.ry in a school like Carnegie. Due to the heavy curricula there are but a comparatively few of tho students who aro will
ing to enter into tho different campus activities. Consequently these 
students aro urged to take on additional activities until they become 
overloaded and both their scholastic work and tho activities suil'er as 
a result.
The Point Systom is devised to cut down those activities so that 
the proper amount oJ! effort can bo given both. It is also hoped that 
by relieving some studonts of a part of their activities and by creat
ing a greater interest in activities in general, others will become moro 
interested iu undergraduate affair and contribute their sharo to
wards this phase of school lilo, Thoro aro many students on the 
campus who are capablo ol! taking part in school activities who havo 
not done so.
Tho Point Systom Committee has boon appointed to carry out 
those plans and has boon working hard. It, howovor, neods tho co
operation of tho officers of tho organizations and activities to carry 
on thoso plans and complete its records.
Student Calendar
TinjBSDAY, KKimnARV I
Piny..."Crossed Codes.............................................8:15, Tattle Theater
FRIDAY, FKBIUJARY 2
Dance Mons Junior Prom"..............................0:00, Hotel Schenley
PlayKing's Threshold' .........8:15, Little Theater
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY :i
Banket Ball -Carnogio vs. Penn State.......8:30, Carnegie Field Mouse
Hay- Flight of Doerdre".....................................8:15, Little Theater
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 4
Musical ClubsGlee Club;.....................................2:80, Art Exhibition
Mandolin Club.............................2:30, Carnegie Union
RecitalDepartment of Music....................................8:15, Arts Theater
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
Payment of Second Semesters fees.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6
Classes Resumed.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY i)
DanceArts Ball..............................................9:00, College of Fine Arts
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10 
DancePost Ball Dance................................................9:00, Arts Foyer
Which Is tho worse of tho two 
evils?
Wo will first consider the golashos 
their purposo Is largely to attract 
the attention of the male sex, by their 
Intermittent /lop-illop and the rattle 
of tho buckles. They would be 
worthless In this respect In a deep 
snow as thou It would be necessary 
to buckle them and so slop that In
fernal nolso. But Instead they 
answer another purpose and that Is 
that they keep tho foot warm. Last 
year the golashos became so popular 
among the girls that tho boys also 
started wearing them, but they wore 
worn by tho boys In a different man
ner or In other words tho bucklos 
wore dosed. So It must be all right 
for anyone to wear them so long as 
they are buckled.
Now for some more sense about tho 
Russian Boots. The up-to-date Rus
sian Boot Is a cross between golash 
and a rubber boot. Tho purposes and 
uses of thoso are multitudinous, since 
wo aro only discussing a fow. First
ly, llioy are something original, duo to 
the dirty gray band around tho top. 
And tho combination of this band and 
tho shiny black rubber tends to draw 
much attention. So tho main pur
pose Is to attract the wary eye of 
evoryone especially tho men. In this 
way they are similar to the flapping 
golash. They were first worn by the 
commonly known flapper, but now 
they havo como to our campus and 
so others aro now wearing them.
Secondly, they serve as receptacles 
for powder puff, fountain pen and 
other rubbish such as waste paper. 
Do you remember how tho boys would 
throw peanuts In tho big horn, when 
tho city band marched down the 
street? Well the tuba man does not 
need to worry any more about his 
horn, as the boys can now use the 
surplus space around the top of the 
Russian Boot for a mark to throw at 
Instead. Thirdly, It has been found 
from a tour around tho campus that 
tho boots aro only necessary In one 
place. And this place Is along the 
boardwalk In front of 'Science School, 
where the Seniors and a few Juniors 
sit and aim at the cracks In the walk. 
Due to lack of training, the cracks 
aro soldom filled up, so the boots (not 
boats) are necessary In passing this 
unsophisticated place.
In drawing a conclusion as to 
which is tho worse of the two evils 
from the above remarks, it is impos
sible to malto a definite statement 
without further study and research 
on tho subject. However, to look at 
tho matter from another viewpoint, it 
doesnt seem worth wlillo to condemn 
either one, as tho girls will do just 
as they pleaso since mother isnt here 
to look after their welfare.
ROAMINS
Aro you courteous?
A timely question considering the 
dally signs of lack of courtesy on 
the part of many students on the 
campus. Wherever Wo go, whether 
it Is tho commons, the library or the 
various schools, we find many who 
make a practice of being rude and 
ill-bred. Perhaps you wonder why 
you have but few friends. Try a 
little courteous action and you will 
ilnd that you will enjoy life the 
more and gain the respect of your 
fellow students.
PI DELTA EPSILON' 
ANNOUNCES CONTEST
National Honorary Offers 
Prizes to Students For 
Editorials
Is the college graduate poorly 
equipped physically? Has his bodily 
development been neglected because 
of attention to mental development? 
Should a new standard of physical fit ness be required of every student as a 
qualification for a degree?
Every male undergraduate in the 
United States and Canada has been 
invited by Pi Delta Epsilon, honorary 
collegiate journalism fraternity, to 
answer these questions.
In announcing as the subject for 
Wcro you. one o[ tlie fellows who EpBilon' 1823 Intercollehad to crum lat week In order to *'*te Mttwtal Contest "Physical DoYou are now passing through the 
Climax of the first semester. If you 
survive make a better start next 
tom.
,get your work in? At that, it was 
a pretty good review for finals.
A movie fan or not you should 
have soon the football pictures at 
the Cameraphone last week.
Roamer has heard that spikes and 
barbed wire are to be used in the 
construction of Senior Fence in or
der to keep underclassmen from 
making use of this Senior privilege.
As for the Seniors, they are go
ing to carry leather cushions dec
orated with a unique design to put 
between themselves and the fence.
Only Seniors who have paid-up 
their dues in full will be given one 
of these spike protectors.
velopment as a Requisite for the Col
lege Degree, Cecil F. Gordon, of 
Dartmouth College, General Under
graduate Chairman, said:
"Last year hundreds of editorials 
were entered in our contest. Pi Delta 
Epsilon has two objects: First, to
interest American college students in 
affairs affecting them all as a group; 
and, second, to arouse a greater inter
est in journalism in general and edi 
torial writing in particular. We con
fidently expect no less than 3,000 edi
torials.
Medals to Be Awarded.
As in the past, Pi Delta Epsilon will 
award its coveted gold, silver and 
bronze medals to prize winners. One 
gold medal, two silver medals and 10 
bronze medals will be given. Because 
of the nature of the subject chosen, 
- extensive publicity will be given by 
1 the metropolitan press in general and
Thin statement settles tffi* parUculiu&sfey sporting editora -Utter,
d cussed Inquiry in regard to uso esM )n lnterc0,IeKa atUletics. 
of the fence. Some one said it J
would
Plebes.
always be crowded with
Not so if Cushion Plan goes into 
effect.
Advisory Committee 
For Metallurgists
Board of Pittsburgh Men to 
Work With Department
WHOS WHO IN M. M. C. C.
STUDENT SENATE
President, Dorothy Grant..........................................701 Ivy Street, Schenley 4017-W
Secretary, J3lair Jessop..............................................4361 Saline Street, Hazel 274S
SENIOR CLASS
President, Priscilla Allison..............................................Forbes Hall, Schenley 9079
Secretary, Grace Patterson.................................................Forbes Hall, Schenley 9079
JUNIOR CLASS
President, Jane Markell....................................440 S. Rebecca Street, Hiland 3210-J
Secretary, Joyce Miles........................................................Mellon Hall, Schenley 9063
SOPHOMORE CLASS
President, Dorothy Smith..................................................Forbes Hall, Schenley 9079
Secretary, Rosemary McCambridge-----620 Copeland Street, Schenley 2882-M
FRESHMAN CLASS
President, Barbara White...............................................Forbes Hall, Schenley 9079
Secretary, Sara Williams...............................................Haysville, Pa., SeWickley 261-J
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
President, Ray Fine.......................................314 Stratford Avenue, Hiland 2171-R
Socretary-Treasurer, Eleanor Wilt.........6419 Kentucky Avenue, Hiland 7124-J
GIRLS GLEE CLUB .
Manager, Lenoro Davies.......................................................Mellon Hall, Schenley 9063
Assistant Mananer, Grotchen Inael..................................Mellon Hall, Sohenley 9063
President, Martha Zimmerman........................523 Lloyd Avenue, Franklin 5142-R
Secretnry-Treasurer, Helen McConkey........................Forbes Hall, Schenley 9079
GUILD ASSOCIATION
President, Lillian Coleman.............................667 Monteolare Street, Haxel 3083-M
Seoretary-Treasuror, Martha Zimmerman. .023 Lloyd Avenue, Franklin 142-R 
Y. W. C. A.
Prosldont, Hortense Purdy.................................................Forbes Hall, Schenley 9340
Secretary, Mary Crawford......................168 North Crain Street, Sohenley 766-M
V HOUSEHOLD CLUG
President, Ruth Snydtor........................................................8006 Westmoreland Avenue
Secretary-Treasuror, Grace Adams.................321 Barnes Street, Franklin 241-M
SECRETARIAL CLUB
President, Grace Patterson...................................................................................Forbes Hall
Secretary, Miriam Bond..................................411 Oneida Street, Lafayette 2853-M
SCIENCE CLUB
President, Mary Bean......................................1227 Wisconsin Street, Locust 1259-J
Secretary, Sarah Lee.5141 Woodlawn Avenue, Schenley 341-R
DORM COUNCIL
President, Lenore Davies.......................................................................................Mellon Hall
Secretary-Treasurer, Joyce Miles........................................................................Mellon Hall
THISTLE BOARD
Associate Editor, Jane Markell....................440 S. Rebecca Street, Hiland 3210-J
Secretary, Anne Kirker.........................................................6017 Grafton, Hiland 7995-J
SHILLING
Editor, Helen Duncomb......................................................................................Forbes Hall
Assistant Editor, Anne Kirker..........................................6017 Grafton, Hiland 7995-J
Business Manager, Ray Fine........................314 Stratford Avenue, Hiland 2171-R
Advertising Manager, Mildred Abel-----7722 Brashear Avenue, Franklin 754-M
Circulation Manager, Dorothy Smith.................................................................Forbes Hall
Having dookled that an advisory 
hoard would bo a good thing for tho 
Departmont of Metallurgy, Dr. Baker, 
Mr. Mott, ProfosRors Crabtree and 
AITYYTLIOTYS gavo a dinner to a numbor 
ol! tho bUBlnoBH and clontlflu mon ol! 
Pittsburgh at tho Athletic Associa
tion lust Saturday ovonlng. Dr. Bakor 
prosldod, and explained tho purposo 
of an advisory board; Professor Crab
tree gavo I ho history of tho Metal
lurgical' Department: Director Mott
spoke on present tondonelos In engi
neering education, showing Increased
00-oporatlon between tho groat Indus* 
tries and educational Institutions; 
Professor McIntosh spoke on re
search; Dr. Lyon, of tho Bureau of 
Mines, spoke on tho research that Is 
being done by his department, and 
Mr. Affelder explained the work of 
tho Advisory Board of. tho Coal Min
ing Department.
After a brief discussion, Mr. C. W
1-Ieppenstall, president of the I-Ieppenstall Forge and Knife Company 
moved that an advisory board made 
up of Pittsburgh business and scien
tific men be created to work with the 
Department of Metallurgy of Car
negie Tech. His motion was second
ed by Mr. C. F. W. Rys, Chief Metal
lurgical Engineer of the Carnegie 
Steel Company. Dr. Baker then ap
pointed Messrs. Heppenstall, Rys, 
Crabtree and McIntosh, a committee 
to select a larger committee which 
would plan the organization. A large 
number of the guests spoke and 
showed their warm interest in the 
enterprise and their approval of the 
plan.
The guests were: W. L. Affelder,
Assistant to President, Hillman Coal 
and Qolce Company; F. B. Bell, Presi
dent, Edgewater Steel Company, Onkmont; Earl Blough, Technical Direc
tor, Aluminum Company of America; 
V. B. Brown, General Superintendent, 
Allegheny Stool Company; E. h. DeMar g, Manager, Union Electric Stool 
Company; A. N. DIohl, General Su
perintendent, Duquosno Stool Works, 
Carnogio; Goorgo H. Faunco, Prosl
dont, Pennsylvania Smelting Com
pany; A. C. Floldnor, United States 
Bureau of Minos; W. C. Fownos, Jr., 
Standard iSoamloss Tube Company; J. 
O. Handy, Pittsburgh Testing Labo
ratory; C. W. Hopponstall. Prosldont, 
Hopponstall Forgo and Knife Com
pany: F. B. Hufnagel, Prosldont,
Pittsburgh Cruclblo Stool Company; 
Roy A. Hunt, Vice Prosldont, Alumi
num Company of America; T. D. 
Lynch, Wostinghouso Electric & Man
ufacturing Company; D. A. Lyon, 
Chief Metallurgist and Supervisor of 
Experimental Stations; C. F. W. Rys, 
Chief Metallurgical Engineer, Car
negie Steel Company; F. N. Speller, 
Chief Metallurgical Engineer, Na
tional Tube Company; S. G. Stafford, 
Vice President, Vulcan Crucible Steel 
Company, Aliquippa, Pa.; B. N; Zim
mer, Manager, American Zinc and 
Chemical Company.
Roamer requests the fellows not to 
take advantage of the fact that the 
telephone numibers of the girls 
dorms -are published in the column 
Whos Who In M. M. C. C.
ROAMER.
ENGINEER ILLUSTRATES
SUPER-POWER SYSTEM
(Continued From Page One.) 
control, yes; government ownership, 
never.
After the address, Mr. Murray gave 
an illustrated talk on the practical 
difficulties encountered and the vic
tories won in the campaign of the en
gineer to force Mother Nature to obey 
,his will. Tho electrification of rail
roads seems to bo only one of the 
burning problems of electrical engi
neers. Some very interesting data 
was given, among which were a set 
of meters showing how one might, by 
measuring the electricity used in any 
vicinity, como very near to estimating 
the correct state of business in that 
community. Mr. Murray expressed 
his conviction that somo day soon, 
business mon will turn to those charts 
showing actual facts about the situa
tion rather than to tho estimates of 
economists. Tlie motors soomed ex
tremely accurate for tho Industrial 
sootion of this country. Another intorostlng illustration given was that 
where' it was shown that the product 
of tho American workman is far su
perior in valuo per work day, duo to 
tho largo amount of power, available 
for his uso. Tho products of foreign 
workmon lookod poor indeed In com
parison with that of tho American.
Mr. Murrays speech, in part, is as 
follows:
A saving of 40,000,000 tons of coal 
will bo realized annually by the estab
lishment of a Bupor-powor systom of 
electricity. Drawing from such a 
common pool, an adequate, reliable 
and cheap power will bo insured. Ade
quate, because the largo plants will 
be veritable fortresses of power; re
liable because their next-door neigh
bors stand ready to serve should the 
ono or the other fail; cheap, because 
of the employment of large generat
ing equipment which reduces unit 
production of cost, and due to the pro
posed net work of interconnection, di
versity. factor and reduction in re
verse equipment may be practiced to 
maximum advantage.
"Measured in terms of dollars and 
cents, if, instead of the operations 
which were examined for the year 
1919, the super-power plan is in full 
action by 1920, the electric utilities
Faculty Aid Solicited.
Philip C. Pack, Grand Editor of Pi 
Delta,Epsilon, lias urged co-operation 
by college faculties in making this 
subject compulsory with all students 
in English and rhetoric classes. "In 
1921-22, he said, "many instructors 
in these subjects required entry by 
every student. Since the student is 
offered the additional incentive of 
participation in a contest of national 
3Copo, instructors may well expect 
I very creditable work.
Harding Praises Contest.
A letter received from the White 
House from President Warren G. 
Harding, a member of PI Delta Epsi
lon, indicates his thorough endorse
ment of the contest. As a former 
newspaper and college man, he is in 
whole-hearted sympathy with its oh 
ject. Announcement of the Contest 
Rules will be made within the com
ing week,
Rules governing the contest have 
been approved by the fraternitys 
Grand Council. The unusual interest 
aroused by the subject, "Physical De
velopment as a Requisite for the Col
lege Degree, has resulted in a deluge 
of questions.
For the information of every in
structor in English or rhetoric and 
the student body in general, the Con
test Rules .are printed herewith
1. Contest-will open January 29, 
1923. and will-close February 28, 1923, 
at midnight.
2. Editorials submitted may not 
exceed 500 words,
3. Type or write legibly on ono 
side of sheet only.
4. Write an assumed name in the 
upper loft, hand corner of each sheet.
5. On tho face of an envelope write 
this assumed name, enclosing a sheet 
of paper on which is written your 
own name, ago, homo city, class and 
local college addross and telephone 
number.
C. Seal this envelope carefully and 
pin or clip it to your editorial.
7. Then hand it to your instructor 
in English or rhetoric or, if not com
pulsory as a classroom assignment, 
mail it to V. II. Stromquist, local 
chairman.
Editorials will then be sent directly 
to Cecil F. Gordon, Sigma Phi Epsilon 
House, Dartmouth College, Hanoyer, 
N. H.
Last Years Winners.
Pi Delta Epsilons Contest of 1921- 
22 was won by William W. Iv. Free
man, of Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology. Second prize was won 
by Shelby H. Atchley, of the Univer
sity of Idaho; Ralph Iv. Chase, of 
Union College and William J. Woods, 
of Hamilton College tied for third 
place.
Honorable mention was accorded: 
Frank A. Rickey, Southwestern Lou
isiana Industrial Institute; Peter H. 
DeVries. Hope College; John A. Mc
Leod, Furnam University; Carl H.
Razz, Razz, Razzwhat good does 
it do?
Talk, talk, talkone only gets, a 
dry throat!
Plead, plead, plead"Cut out the 
sob stuff, everybody says!!
And so on it goes. Those enthus
iastically inclined, although they are 
more than eager to have its contagi
ous, find it is for themselves only. 
They work like sin thinking out 
schemes and plans galore to arouse a 
spirit worthy of the greatness of 
Carnegie Tech. But, when thrust up
on the mass of men, mis-called CarnegieTech Men, they are rebuffed like 
a snowball when it lands with a dull 
thud against a stone wall.
Yes, thats the kind of sprit we 
have at our schoolwhy dodge is
sues? Why keep on making ourselves
$5000 Fellowship Prize 
For College Graduates
Part of Charles Coffin Found
ation For Research Work
Part of a fund of $400,009 to be 
set aside by the General Electric 
Company and to be known as the 
Charles A. Coffin Foundation, for re
warding and encouraging service in 
the electrical field, will be devoted 
to an annual prize of $5,000 to be 
awarded graduates of American col
leges or technical scnoois with which 
to continue research, work in this 
country1 or abroad.
Announcement of the prize and the 
terms of award has just been made 
by the General Electric Company as 
follows:
Five thousand dollars ($5,000) is 
to 'ie awarded annually for fellow
ships to graduates of American col
leges and technical schools who, by 
the character of their work, and on 
the recommendation of the faculty 
of the institution where they have 
studied, could with advantage con
tinue their research work either 
here or abroad; or some portion or 
all of the fund may1 be used to fur
ther the research work at any of the 
colleges or technical schools in the 
United States. The field in which 
these fellowships and funds for re
search work are to be awarded are: 
Electricity,
"Physics,
"Physical Chemistry.
A committee appointed by the 
Foundation Committee will award 
such fellowship's and funds for re
search work, with the advice and co
operation  of a committee of three, 
one to be appointed by each of the 
following:
National Academy of Sciences, 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers.
Society for the Promotion of En
gineering Education.
"The committee to co-operate with 
the National Academy of Sciences, 
American Institute of Electrical En
gineers and the Society for the Pro
motion of Engineering Education will 
consist of:
E. W. Rice, Jr., honorary chairman. 
A. H. Jackson, vice president.
W. R. Whitney, director of research 
Laboratory.
The foundation is 7)elng established 
in recognition of the services to the 
electrical industry of Mr. Charles A. 
Coffin, founder and creator of the 
General Electric Company, who re
cently retired from its active leader
ship at the age of 78.
believe that there is such a thing, at 
the present time as a good spirit, 
when there isnt such a thing? It just 
simply dont exist ,and thats all there 
is to it; there aint no more.
It may be hard to believe but it3 
so! Why, only a few days ago I was 
talking to a man, who is a student 
here, and a good one at that (as far 
as studies go), who admitted that he 
hadnt seen a single football game 
since his connections with Carnegie 
Tech begantwo years agoand 
what's more he did not expect to ever 
see one. This is an extreme case 
thank goodness, there are not many 
like him!
But what are you going to do with 
a man like that? The writer thinks 
they are hopeless; but again, after 
thinking the matter over, and listen
ing to opinions of various men who 
are real Carnegie Tech men, he seems 
to remember that there is a mighty 
good tank on the campus situated 
down by Machinery Hall, that has, 
many times within his memory, been 
used for such lessons.
Very well, I hear you say, but what 
good does it do? A/tanking i3 
given, and its overmaybe its suc
cessfulmaybe notit all depends 
upon the student. If he is- of the right 
sort, it will do good, but if not, only 
cause added resentment.
But, getting down to brass tacks, 
what is it that builds a school spirit? 
Two institutions upon the campus are 
fundamental: the fraternities and the 
organizations.
Is your fraternity making of you a 
good Carnegie Tech man?
Is your fraternity making of you a 
good fraternity man?
Or, is your fraternity making of 
you a combination of both?
If the latter, your fraternity is ful
filling its most important function as 
an organization at Carnegie Tech.
But, if it is not making you a loyal 
supporter, active, and otherwise, of 
your Alma Mater, it is a failure. Your 
duty to your school should always 
come before your duty to your frater
nity.
If it does not, there is something 
wrong, radically wrong.
Think it over!
Yours for that good Carnegie Tech 
Spirit as it ought to be.
REGISTRATION NEXT WEEK
FOR ALL STUDENTS
will have been able to eliminate an 
expenditure of $235,000,000 annually. Farman, University of Southern CaliTlirough the electrification of 19,000 
miles of railroad, $S1,000,000 can be 
annually saved to the railroads and 
the industries completing their elec
trification will, as of that date, effect 
an annual saving of $190,000,000, and 
while these monies amounting to 
more than a half billion dollars an
nually are being saved, there will be 
rendered unnecessary the annual min
fornia; Ira S. Fritz, Muhlenberg Col
lege; G. Felter Wendell, Bucknell 
Un-versity; 'Sydney S. Biro, Univer
sity of California; Jesse Clark, Uni
versity of Utah; Leon V. Quigley, 
Worcester Polytechnic Institute; Elwood T. Dickinson, Dartmouth Col
lege; C. T. Chianese, University of 
Pennsylvania; Ralph Lipson, New 
York University; and Lester C.
ing and transportation of 49,000,000 Lewis, Massachusetts Institute of
tons of coal.
FACULTY NEWS AND NOTES
Technology.
Design of Medal.
Pi Delta Epsilons Medals, in gold, 
silver and bronze, are circular in 
sliapo, display tho antique ink-well, 
crossed quills and symbols of the fra
ternity. The reverse sido is engraved
Colonel Church lias been selected 
by tho Fronch-American Society as 
ono or a party of four roprosontntivo 
Americans to study French colonial j with tho winners name,, dato and deadmlnlstratlon in North Africa. Tho scrlption of tho contest. Thus far. 
party will sail about April first as ' only four medals are in existence.
guests of tho French government.  -----------  ------------------------------------
Colonel Church's associates will bo Clan, Engineers Club.
Professor William Milligan Sloauo of! Wednesday, February 7, WashingPrinooton University, Goorgo W. ton D. C., Clan.
Wickorsliam, former attorney general,
and Edgar A. Bancroft, a lawyer, of 
Chicago.
Dr. Baker will visit several of the 
eastern Carnegie Clans tho first part 
of February. His schedule is as fol
lows :
Saturday evening, February 3, New
Dr. Charters addressed a meeting 
of 1,400 Ohio vocational teachers of 
salesmanship in Columbus January 19.
Police Commissioner John P. Clan
cy spoke to Mr. I-Iaus classes in 
American Government and Politics, 
January 4 and S, on "Pittsburgh PoYork Clan, fourth annual banquet and lice Problems. Thursday, January 
dance, at the Hotel McAlpin, Broad- 11, Mr. W. T. Martin, chief editorial 
way and Thirty-fourth street j writer of the Pittsburgh Post, disMonday, February 5, Harrisburg ' cussed the city finances of Pittsburgh. 
Clan. Rotary Club. j His subject was, When the CitizenTuesday, February 6, Philadelphia ship of a City Expresses Itself.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Engineering Students; all Metallur
gical Engineering Students, all Min
ing Engineering Students, and all 
Physics Science Students.
2:00 to 4:00Senior Mechanical 
Engineering Students.
Friday, 8:30 to 11:30Junior Me
chanical Engineering Students.
1:00 to 4:00Junior Mechanical 
Engineering Students, all Civil Engi
neering Students.
All Freshmen should report with 
their section in the drawing labora
tory. Sections will be notified when 
the time for registration has come 
and the whole group will then regis
ter at once. Therefore, bring your 
money to class with you Monday.
All special and part time students 
may register at any time during tlie 
week of February fifth, but must upon 
registration present an approved 
schedule card. The offices are open 
at the regular hours.
iStudents under the Veterans Bu
reau will report to the co-ordinator 
for their registration cards before at
tending any second semester classes.
Start the 
Week Right
Church on Sunday 
puts new pep into Mon
day, Tuesday, Wednes
daytill Sunday conies 
again. Try it and sec.
Oakland Methodist 
Church
FOEBES AND 
BOQUET
Fifty steps from the 
campus
JX "|i JBellefield Presbyterian 
j| Church
 Fifth and Bellefield Avenues.
 REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
g Sabbath School ........ 9:45 A.M.
|| College Mens Bible
 Class ................................10:00 A.M.
it Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
tt Christian Endeavor
S Societies ......................... 7:00 P.M. |it Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M.
 WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
LINES FROM
FAMOUS UNITARIANS
The aid of the Lord of Hosts 
is still invoked in international 
warfare, and each side praises 
and thanks Him for its success.
Charles W. Eliot.
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor
WHITTINGTON DEESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Eenting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Anjr Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
SUMMER WORK
THE NATIONAL SURVEY
Lithographic Works.....................Philadelphia, Pa.
Topographical Offices.................. Chester, Vermont
Western Office.................................Cleveland, Ohio
For particulars see 
NATHAN LEEBOV, 322 ATWOOD STEEET 
KAEL KOEMAN

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Lion Passers to Play 
Return Contest Here
Plebes to Face Kiski Preps 
in Preliminary Game
Plaid Plebes Easily Trim 
Coraopolis Scholastics
Penn State will send a team of 
roaring Lions to old Smoky Pitts
burgh on 'Saturday to face the Scotcli 
lads from Carnegie Tecli in a return 
game of basket ball in the Field 
House at S: 30 p. m. sharp.
Three weeks ago the Tartan floormen lost a game to State at State 
College by a 25-36 score. Since then 
Coach Ben Lubic of Carnegie has 
made several changes in positions and 
plays which have been well tested 
in the games with Geneva, TV. Va., 
so with ten days of practice against 
the reserves and Plebes, his varsity 
five will be in readiness to spring at 
the Nittany Lions when they come 
upon the floor in their blue and 
white.
Coach Hermanns cagers from Penn 
State have made a clean sweep of all 
games played! to date and. everyone 
may count on this game as being the 
toughest of any to be played on the 
home floor this season.
Johnnie Reed and Gerhardt, the 
deadly basket makers, are the heav
iest scorers for the Center County 
boys, and their agility on the floor is 
well worth the praise they receive in 
the papers. Captain Koehler at guard 
has held all his opponents to a scant 
number of field goals while he him
self has dropped a few through the 
net in each game. Shair will face 
either Miller or Mefort, the Carnegie 
centers, and their performance should 
attract unusual attention because the 
lanky Lion generally manages to get 
the jump and also cop a share of 
points from long shots in spite of 
close guarding. Loeffler is a veteran 
guard and Hermann has found him to 
be a reliable defender of their goal. 
Fixter, a contender for Reeds berth 
at forward should not be overlooked 
as a probable man in the lineup.
Although the Skibo quintet has not 
been in action against a scheduled 
team for almost two weeks, it has 
been given much practice by the re
serves and the exceptionally good 
Plebe team.
Acting Captain Jimmie Anderson 
has been perfecting his "comet-like 
mid-floor shooting while Donahue, the 
other forward, expects to account well 
for himself on the choppy baskets. 
Gibson and Mohrman will fill the 
guard positions while Miller and Me
fort trade about at jumping. In case 
the examinations or the Junior Prom 
play any part in cutting down the ef
ficiency of the regulars, Coach Lubic 
has a command of valuable substi
tutes.' in Matter, Goodwin, MJcCaw, 
Koppes and Temmel.
On account of Motor. Square Garden 
being used for other purposes, Man1 ager Keller of the Plaid basket ball 
team sjtates that all future home 
games will be played at the field 
house, and that seats in the front row 
of the balcony may be reserved by 
applying at the Graduate Managers 
office.
The Plebe team will oppo'se Kiskiminitis Prep. School in a preliminary 
game on Saturday evening starting 
at 7:30. The Kiski five have won 
every one of their gamesincluding 
Pitt Freshmen and West Virginia 
Freshmen. With two of the best prep 
and Freshman, teams in this region 
clashing at the high point of the 
season, the spectators would natur
ally expect to see a fast and wellplayed game. Coach Beeler feels con
fident that his boys are ready to take 
on the best in their class.
Next Tuesday evening, * January 6, 
Coach DeHart will bring his Wash
ington and Lee floor stars from Lex
ington, Va., to this city to meet the 
Plaid yellow-jerseys in a battle royal 
at the Field House cage. The W. 
and L. team was slow about starting 
practice'this year but De Hart thinks 
his white and blue-.,ehallengers have 
an equal chance of winning over the 
Carnegie passers.
On the Plaid Screen
Last Thursday night the Freshmen 
basket ball team showed their 
stuff so to spe&k and walked away 
from tlie Coraopolis Scholastics to 
the} tune of 38 to IS. The Plebes 
were in wonderful form and rang 
up the baskets one after the other 
like a machine.' There was only one 
thing that held them back and that 
was the fact that the floor on which 
they played had been used as a danc-j 
ing floor and' as a result was very i 
slippery.
Amans, Reiter and Goodwin each 
rang up five Held goals. Oles, the 
captain of the opposing team, was I 
the same Oles who played on the! 
Plebe team at Carnegie last year.
The Plebes lead from the start of 
the game and finished up 20 points 
ahead of Coraopolis, outplaying 
them in every department of the
game.
Lineup:
Carnegie Plebes. Coraopolis.
Amans ....................F.................. Everard
Reiter .....................F................... John son
Goodwin ------------C......................... Oles
Burt .........................G......................... Ewing
Jackson ................G............... Demascio
SubstitutionsHolmes for Everard, 
Anderson for Holmes, Everard for 
Johnson, Irwin for Oles, Smith for 
Amans, Lepore for Reiter, Amans for 
Lepore, Edie for Goodwin, Goodwin 
for Edie, Jackson for Burt.
Field galsAmans 5, Reiter 5, 
Goodwin 5, Burt 1.
Foul goalsAmans, 1 out of 3; 
Reiter, 5 out of 8.
Final score:Tech, 38; Coraopolis, IS.
By H. H. WILSON
' PLAID TRACK TEAM 
! HAS GOOD MATERIALSTEFFEN LIKELY TO 
REMAIN AT CARNEGIE
THE NEW RULES
With the season nearly half gone, the advantages and disadvantages of 
the new basket ball rules have begun to show themselves. Of courso in 
considering them we must remember that both the players and olllcials are 
unaccustomed to them and consequently they do not work as smoothly as 
they might.
The ruling on the technical foul which gives the ball to the team fouled 
out of bounds, seems to speed up the game somewhat aud prevents either 
team from scoring heavily through a crack foul shooter. On the other hand, 
in the case of a personal foul within certain zones, two shots are generally 
given and the time taken for these slows up the game a bit as well as giving 
the crack foul shooter a chance to show his wares. Thus it appears that 
one ruling almost' offsets the other which is hardly true.
These rules aim to strike hard at personal fouling and if we judge cor
rectly the intentions of the rule makers are being carried out. There is a 
rule which eliminates a player from the game when he has four personal 
fouls credited against him. This regulation has been generally disregarded 
in this section but with the idea of making the game cleaner it might be well 
to revive it and put it in practice again.
Work-outs on Tuesday and 
Thursday Afternoons at 
Hunt Armory
Col. Cunningham to Coach 
New R. 0. T. C. Rifle Team
Lieutenant Colonel Cunningham 
has begun work with tne R. O. T. C. 
Rifle Team, which is to shoot in the 
National R. O. T. C. meet on the 
fifteenth of March. He expresses bin 
hopes for new men to try out, for 
the present number of applicants has 
not reached1 the number required for 
the team. Every day the men are 
practicing sighting and aiming drills 
in the Langley Laboratory, and the 
colonel says that fifteen minutes a 
day if 1 his type of work will make 
good shots out of all the men. For 
twenty-one years ColoneL Cunning
ham has had the highest awards for 
rifle shooting and for pistol shoot
ing, and has trained men for some 
time in the art of handling a rifle.
The new R. 0. T. C. rifle range is 
nearing completion in the basement 
of the Margaret Morrison building, 
and: by the fifteenth of February the 
men will be able to do some actual 
shooting there.
New applicants may apply at the 
office of the colonel, or else may go 
over to Supply Sergeant Sullivans 
office any day at noon.
TO THE ALUMNI
On scanning the Alumni page of last weeks issue, we noted that the 
Alumni are still lagging far behind the student body in helping the Kilts 
drive. Does this mean that the graduates of Carnegie Tech are losing in
terest in their Alma Mater?
CARNEGIE ALUMNI! Are you going to stand by and let the under
graduates shoulder most of the burden? It took real sacrifice on the part of 
many of the students to dig down for that dollar but they saw the vision of 
a famous band in kilts and didnt stop to count the cost. Would it be any 
more of a sacrifice to you to do your bit toward the fund? Think it over and 
lets see that list of Alumni contributors contain your name.
THE NEW GYMWHEN?
The old red house has disappeared but what about the ground breaking 
that was to take place this month? This is the last day of the month and 
the soil on the site is still undisturbed.
We have heard that there is a certain amount of quibbling over the details 
of the thing which may hold it up indefinitely. Carnegie is a poor place for 
such trifling and the playing of petty politics. We need that gym too badly.
With but two victories credited to our Plaid quintet and games with 
State, Washington '& Lee, Grove City and Allegheny in the near future, it 
looks as though a miracle would have to take place to bring our team through 
with even as good a record as they have had in past seasons.
Scholastically speaking, we hope that the present siege of exams will be 
merciful enough to bring some of our floor veterans back within the bounds 
of eligibility.
Somebody thought they saw Coach Lubic over at the Langley Lab watch
ing the Inter-Fraternity games. Wonder if they did?
EGYPTIAN BELL OF KARNAK
WILL TOLL AT KAPERS 
(Continued from Page One)
FUNDS FOR ABROAD 
Successful armies must 
maintain their lines of 
communication. Likewise 
successful travelers. Mel
lon Travelers Checks and 
Letters of Credit assure a 
reliable connection with 
home resources while 
abroad. It Is the RIGHT 
way to carry funds.
Oliver .Aue.& SmvthfieldST
It's a sign a man is old when he 
mistakes a thrill for a chill.West
minster Holcad.
Fraternities wanting Dance Pro
grams, Favors, Stationery, Pillow Cov
ers, etc., should get prices from Sing
er Pen & Gift Shop.
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the quality 
and service.
A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
shes got ole Jack Willard to be the 
Grand Vizier, and what I mean lies 
sure gonna Grand Vizier all over 
the stage. I hear that Ratlibone 
Hertz and Obio Newman are gonna 
put on the dog and show what they 
can do as a couple of Weary Wil
lies stranded' in the land of the 
pyramids and prohibition. This is 
dry land, this Egypt.
At 4 a. m. the bells of Karnak 
again will toll and the greatest cele
bration in the history of our people 
will be at a close.
The next two weeks are to see 
some strange sights in the classic 
the attic walking around the halls 
practicing some wild Egyptian calis^ 
thenics, like a gang of waitresses 
from Childs slinging a mean tray of 
ham and.
How the ever so it may be, I can 
assure you that ICapers at Karnak 
is to be the mermaids ankles and to 
quote the words of the bard of 
Avon when, he stood on the bridge 
at midnight: Come on, gang, lets 
go.
FRANK HAAREN ON
ROAD TO RECOVERY
(Continued From Pago One.) 
was in the School of Architecture, 
and during that time he was promi
nent in many of the college activi
ties, being a member of the Seclnnchie Society, Delta Skull and Beta 
Tlieta Epsilon; secretary and treas
urer of tile Musical Clubs, and of the 
'Carnegie Tech Architectural Club; 
manager of varsity football, editor-inchief of the Thistle, and a member 
of the Athletic Board of Control, and 
the Student Activities Committee.
Before his election as Graduate, 
Manager he was employed by the! 
Alumnium Company of America, at 
New Kehsington, Pa.
LEAGUE GAMES BEGIN 
TO SHOW STANDINGS
With about forty men trying for 
tho various positions on the varsity 
track team, prospects are very 
brightly tinted for a fine cinder ag
gregation for this year. Competition 
is much moro pronounced than in for
mer years, for the veterans are hardpressed by many new men from tho 
ranks of the Froslmien or from 
among those who were striving for 
a berth last year.
The Tuesday and Thursday work
outs at the Hunt Armory are not as
Indiana Normal Loses to 
Carnegie Freshmen, 45-23
well attended this week as for several i goals.
Beoler met Beeler aud our Beeler 
won. The coach of Indiami Normal 
Is tho brother of Paul Beeler, Fresh
men Coaclu Thus it can readily be 
seen that there was no lack of spirit 
on either team. From tho very begining tho game was Carnegie's. 
The Plebes took tho load and kept 
It all through the game. Toots 
Amans! was in his primo. He had 
his yie on the basket and never took 
it off once. During tho course of 
tho game he rang up eight field
President Clarence Overend 
and Doctor Marks of the 
Athletic Council Visit Coach 
Steffen in Chicago and Dis
cuss the Probability of His 
Continuing a s Carnegies 
Football Mentor  His Du
ties as Judge May Interfere
weeks past, due to the strain of ex
aminations. As soon as the present 
week has passed, taking with it the 
attendant worries, tho track squad 
will receive quite a boost. Many now 
men will probably report for practice 
and Coach Beeler will begin to got 
a line on the material available for a 
successful team. With a goodly num
ber of veterans and a large group of 
newcomers, and with an enviablo rep
utation as coach of the Johnstown 
High School team, it is expected that 
Beeler will turn out as fast an aggre
gation as ever represented Carnegie.
Among tho veterans who havo thus 
far turned out for practice 'are Cap
tain Brumbaugh, Lockwood, Bright, 
Schuclcer, Berglund, Szold, Cooper, 
and others. Midge Matter is the only 
veteran pole vaulter, but sovoral 
promising Plebes havo reported for 
this event and may develop into good 
men. Sprinkle, Comfort and other
weight men aro oxpocted to report
within tho near future. Jimmy Rob. 
ertson and several other track stars, 
formerly on tho baseball team, will
[ also bolster tho chances for a suc
cessful season.
At this date it sooms to be settled 
that the toam will travel west to tho 
Drake Relays, instead of to the Ponn 
Relays in Philadelphia. Coach Beeler 
and his men aro eager to follow tho 
advice of tho famous Horace Greoley.
The interfraternity-dormltory basket 
ball, season is well under way. Most 
of the teams have played three games 
and have practically determined 
where they will stand when the 
finals talco place. There has boon 
tho usual dope upsetting. Three of 
the games played so far havo been 
won by ono point and others by 
close scores.
Interested persons havo watched 
many of tho games and commontod i Yale Manager Writes Boost 
on the wealth of good material pres-For Spoi't in Universities
There was but a very small ele
ment of luck in- the game for the 
Plebos. They won because they had 
teamwork. They showed that they 
had had lots of practice, and knew 
what they were doing. They so ex 
celled their rivals in passing tho 
ball that they made them look fool
ish at times.
Much praise is due Paul Beeler for 
his great success with the Plebe 
team. Amans, Reiter, Goodwin aud 
Burt show promise of becoming fu
ture! stars for Carnegie Techs basket 
ball: team.
Lineup:
Tech. Indiana Normal.
Amans ....................F....................... Youm;
Reiter .......................F................... Sladden
Goodwin .............C..................... Visloy
Burt ..............*.... G................. Campsey
Jackson ....................G....................... Brady
SubstitutionsSmith for Amans, 
Amans for Smith, Van Atta for Reit
er, Edio for Goodwin, Goodwin for
Edie, Roller for Van Alta, Jonoa for
Jackson, Jackson- for Jones.
GoalsAmans 8, Rolt.or 5. Goodwin 
3, Burt 3, Jackson 1, Jones 1.
Foul goalsReiter, 3 out of 3.
Final scoreTech, 45; Indiana Nor
mal, 23.
Telegraphic Rifle 
Meets Very Popular
By William R. Biggs, 
Manager Yalo University Rlilo Team, 
1920-1922, Member tho Executive 
Board and Publicity ]VTanagor tho 
Intercollegiate Association of Af
filiated Rlflo Clubs, 1921-1022.
ANNUAL INTER-HONORARY 
DANCE SCHEDULED FOR FEB. 21
(Continued From Page One) 
ive and alumni members of the or
ganizations listed above. Alumni 
members who live, in the vicinity of 
Pittsburgh are especially invited. 
Members of the Womens society 
need not confine their escorts to 
members of any honorary society.
Major General Sir Archibald Cam
eron Macdonnell, head of the Royal 
Military College of Canada, was a vis
itor at the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology Monday last. He spoke before 
the Engineers' Society of Western 
Pennsylvania in the evening.
ent.
In the National League lota Sigma 
Del,ta appears to have tho inside 
track, but they will have a harder 
time coming out on top this year.
In the American League Slgnm 
Nu is the only team that remains 
undefeated. The writer believoa 
they mayi continue in tho lead, but 
their position is less secure than tho 
last years champions.
Tn the Federal league tho first 
place is divided; between XI Sigma 
Upsilon and Beta Sigma Rho. The 
latter would seem to havo tho edgo 
by comparative scores but they aro 
uncertain indications.
Last weeks scores are as follow:
National! League.
Beta Thcta PI postponed1, Dolta Phi 
Delta.
Kappa Slgma Rho 26, Sigma Epsi
lon Phi 4.
Iota Sigma Dolta 22, Delta Epsilon 
Omega 4.
Scobell Hall 26, Sigma Alpha Epsi
lon 18
American League.
Sigma Nu 41, Boss Hall 19.
Delta Upsilon 14, Delta Mu 7.
Woodlawn Club 11, Pi Kappa 
Alpha 6.
Tau Gamma Phi, default McGill 
Hall.
Federal League.
Xi Sigma Upsilon 16, Kappa Sig- 0f the day. 
ma j Men who have used a rifle or shot
Theta Xi 15, Square and Com-> 
pass 3.
Beta Sigma Rho 27, Henderson ( war by bringing more men into conHall 6. j tact v/ith the rifle taught them and
made them feel its fascination.
Tho great war brought many 
changes in the collogoa of tlie United 
States yet perhaps nono of them havo 
beon as striking as tho sudden growth 
in intoroat. in rlflo shooting as a reg
ularly constituted college sport. This 
Is duo to a wide variety of causes., 
Tho ohioC reason aeoma to bn thnt 
during tho war many Americans who 
had never ovon soon a rlflo bofrvo 
were forced to liocorno vory fnn-H. 
lar with it. What Is more, they v'*o 
dependent on their rlllo and tho 'III 
with which they used it for tholr jfdry 
lives and many of them learned to 
lovo tholr ri flea. At tlie end of tho 
war they did not wish to givo up tholr 
newly acquired art altogether and 
welcomed the chance to practice It at 
colleges.
Then, too, there came to many peo
ple all over tlie country the realiza
tion that the bppf; safoeuard agajnst 
war is reasonable preparation in 
peace. There could bo no . bettor 
preparation than a general knowledge 
of shooting among the college men
i to any great extent can testify to tlio 
' great charm of the sport and thus the
CARNEGIE GIRLS DINNER
RALLY BOOSTS ATHLETICS;
(Continued from Page One) 
athletics. Music was provided by 
quartet from the Girls Glee Club j our telegraphic matches there was an 
and the Stringers and Miss Bernice! immense amount of interest because 
Rentz sang a solo. The affair wasj of the newness of the idea. Small 
entirely informal, the girls of both j h0re shooting, and that is what I am 
Margaret Morrison and the Arts tak-1 largely referring to, is very little exYet there is one factor which we 
must recognize had a large part in 
the growth of rifle shooting at the 
colleges. This is the novelty of the 
sport. At Yale when we first started
ing an active part in discussing ath
letics to be carried on for the rest 
i of the'year.
STANDING OF THE LEAGUES
*
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans 
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
*
*
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Won.Iota Sigma Delta ................................................................................. 3
Kappa Sigma Rho ............................................................................... 3
Scobell Hall ............................................................................................ 2
Beta Theta Pi ....................................................................................... 1
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ........................................................................ 1
Delta Epsilon Omega ........................................................................ 1
Delta Phi Delta ................................................................................... 0
Sigma Epsilon Plii ............................................................................... 0
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Won.Slgma Nu ......................................................................................................3
PI Kappa Alpha ................................................................................... 2
Woodlawn Club ..................................................................................... 2
Tau Gamma Phi ................................................................................... 2
Delta Upsilon ......................................................................................... 1
Delta Mu ................................................................................................... j.
Boss Hall ............................................................................ , 1
McGill Hall ............................................................................................. 0
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Won.XI Sigma Upsilon ............................................................................... 3
Beta Sigma Rho ................................................................................... 3
Theta Xi .................................................................................................. 2
Welsh Hall .............................................................................................. 1
Kappa Sigma .......................................................................................... 0
Henderson Hall .................................................................................... 0
Square and Compass ......................................................................... 0
Lost.
01.000
01.000
1.666
1.500
2.333
2 .333
2.000
3.000
Lost.
01.000
1.666
1.666
1.666
2.333
2.333
2.333
3.000
Lost.
01.000
01.000
1,666
1.500
2.000
2.000
>3.000
ercise and so the sport must appeal 
more for its own sake. The manage
ment of a rifle team more than per
haps any other must keep wide awake 
and constantly promote its sport, and 
try to institute new and interesting 
features continually. Because of the 
telegraphic feature of the matches 
one of the great incentives to going 
out for a sport is taken away and 
this must be counteracted. The fea
ture to which I refer in the to,king of 
trips which is ono of the most im
portant factors In' getting men to 
come out for tho minor college sports. 
Every manager should do ills best to 
get his Athletic Association to finance 
one trip a year If possible. Arrange
ments could be made with another 
college to shoot alternately on each 
others homo rang or aomo neutral 
range upon certain proscribed condi
tions, This would do more than any
thing to keep Interest In tho sport 
alive and to got tho best men out. 
Another factor which helps keep In
terest up is tho constant addition of 
new features In tho way of shooting 
and in the schedule. For the last two 
years Yale has shot an annual match 
with Oxford University and this has 
done more than anything to arouse 
the interest of the undergraduate 
public and the sympathetic support 
and co-operation of the Athletic As
sociation. Last yoar a now feature 
was added to thoso matches In tho 
addition of a two-stage match, ono 
stage tho regular prone slow Hro and 
tho other prone rapid fire. This stage 
was suggested by Oxford and was 
shot on targets furnished by them. 
Yalo furnished tho slow flro targets. 
The Yalo toam made a perfect acoro 
In tho rapid flro slago, Tho now rapid 
flro stage aroused keen Interest 
among the member of tho squad and 
there was a groat donl of rivalry In 
the tryouts for tho team to shoot 
against Oxford, luteradotlonal match* 
os aro also groat stimulants to Inter
est.
There Is ono thing which I think 
should ho specially encouraged and 
that la tho official recognition of tho 
sport by tho University Athletic As
sociations and tlie awarding of tho 
Insignia to moinbors of tho team. I 
havo had so many letters asking for 
tho basin1 on which wo aro awarded 
letters by our Athletic Association 
that I shall try to clear the matter 
up here. It had beon till tout yoar l.lio 
management's policy to award tho 
"rYt" to all men placing In tho Har
vard, Princeton or Oxford matches 
| but thoro wore obvious Injustices In 
this mothod and last yoar wo recom
mended for Insignia tho ton mon with 
the highest averages In the matchos 
all during the season. Tills ltiothod 
will I think be found the fnlrost, Last 
yoar In addition to tho ton "rYt Inalgnlaa the Athletic Association rec
ognized our very good record In tho 
prone shooting by awarding tho five 
hlgheat men on tho toam tholr claaa 
numerals in addition to tho rYt.' We 
are of course given a regular budget 
and are a fully conatltuted minor 
sport. The Athletic Association has 
bffon most sympathetic and helpful 
and it is difficult to seo how they 
could have done more. Personally I 
am very strongly opposed to the con
trol of the rifle team by the R. O. T, 
C. This tends to keep the Athletic 
Association uninterested and limits 
members of the team to members of 
tho R. O, T. C. Co-operation with 
the R. O. T. C. Is both necessary and 
beneficial to both. At Yalo this or
ganization has done a very great deal 
for us and only through the aid of Its 
officers and commander lias the exist
ence and development of the sport 
been possible. Tho ideal arrange
ment is control by the Athletic Asso
ciation and co-operation with the mil
itary.
We have been usually lucky in be
ing situated at tho headquarters of 
The Winchester Repeating Arms 
Company. They have glvon us inval
uable assistance In many ways. They 
published two programs for us, sent 
Instructors of nation wide roputation 
such as Captain Richards and Virgil 
Richards to help us, and aided us a j 
groat deal in publicity. I would sug
gest to any manager who wishes to 
make use of the assistance in pub
licity which they so kindly offer that 
he communicate with Peter P. Car
ney, Winchester Repeating Anns 
Company, Now Haven, Conn, Public
ity of the right kind Is most deslrablo In promoting the sport, Tho un
dergraduate body cannot bo oxpeeted 
to show Interest unless the matches 
are written up In tho college paper 
and other papers,
Carnegie Tech officials of the 
Athletic Council are much encour
aged by the results of their talk with 
Wally Steffen on the subject of his 
probable return to Carnegie to re
sume his duties as head coach of 
football. The Athletic Council found 
it most advisable that they send rep
resentatives to discuss the situation 
with Wally personally, so Mr. Clar
ence Overend, president of the Ath
letic Council, and Dr. Marks wero 
sent to confer at Steffens solicita
tion.
For the last week or so much ru
mor .has beer, spread by nows papers 
concerning Steffens resignation. That 
is vory true, but wlvyi Wally is bound 
by a five-year contract to coach foot
ball at Carnogio and Wally wants to 
fulfill tho contract in all good faith 
of its making, but if the people and 
his political contemporaries do not soa 
fitthat a judgo also burden himself 
with other duties than those of tho 
bench, then there is little room for 
Steffen to make any affirmativo state
ment as to his return.
The entire, situation was thrashed 
over, betwoon Wally Steffen, Buddy 
Overend and Doc Marks In their con
ference 011 Sunday and "within tlio 
next fow days I think some definite 
statement. will bo received from Stef
fen in regard to his return, says 
Buddy. "Judge Steffen assured tho 
commlttoo that ho would mako every 
effort possible to arrange his af
fairs so that I10 could complete his 
contract." continued Mr. Overend'.
Wally has his lovo with Carmogl 
and Its achievements and ho known 
that every* student and every; official 
Is Intent that ho should como back 
to coach "Ills own.
Even though 110 definite action ban 
boon taken, every Indication look 
promising toward! tho return of tho 
coach who has lolled for many years 
In tho hopes that his efforts might 
placo tho major sport on a standing 
with colleges equally as largo. Wall?/ 
has handled football at Carnogio just 
as a mother would raise. Its Infant 
and now that tho Plaid Is 011 Its foot 
and growing out of Its youth if would 
seem like a tragedy to tear Stoffon 
away. Tho problem to solve thoro* 
foro, Is whol.her Judgo Steffen can 
convince tho other judges and men 
of high political power in Cook eoun* 
ty, Illinois, that ho can ably conduct 
Ills judicial affairs regardless of tho 
job as coaoh,
When rr'inomborlng that judges 
have vacations as well as stenograph
ers aud office boys and that Judgo 
Steffen Is satisfied to use his vacfl/* 
lion porlod to ndvanoo athletics In an 
Institution which has won his heart, 
then why should ho havo a difficult 
task of convincing his friend and 
associates that his choice of variance 
of a vacation should be to his liking 
and not as some loss discerning poo 
pi a thlnlc.
MotherPoor Jimmy is so unfor
tunate,
Cali orIlowa that?
MotherDuring I ho track moot ho 
broke one of tho beat records they 
had I11 collogeThe Tulsno Ilulabaloo.
H1EKS
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
nwr 4iUi RCGELLXUDH York 
Style choeo of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
FOR 
The Student
STAG TROUSERS
AND A
SWEATER COAT
MAKE A
COLLEGE SUIT
FOR
EVERY DAY
Exclusive Oakland Dealera for 
8tag Trousers.
Davies & Hughes
OAKLAND'8 MEN'8 8TORE 
3615 FORBE8 8TREET 
Next to 8trand Theater.
Do You Need Extra Courses?
I
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by correapondcnce. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
Imwratiy nf OUjtragn
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN __________________________________________________ WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 31. 1923
CLAN NEWS
DR. BAKER TO BE ENTER
TAINED BY NATIONAL
CAPITAL CLAN
On Thursday evening, January 18, 
tlio Washington Clan hold a most de
lightful mooting at tlio home ol! Kath
ryn Harris with fifteen presont.
A nhort business mooting was hold 
and such BuhjoctB aa tlio Klltlo Fund, 
tho coming basket hall gamo with 
Georgetown and Dr. Baker's proposed 
visit to WaBlilngton wore discussed.
After the buBlnoBB of tho evening 
was completed, tho momhors onjoyod 
a I'ow gamoB of cardB which woro fol
lowed by dancing and aomo Jlne re* 
1'roBhmontB.
A dinner will be hold on Wednesday 
evening, February 7 place to bo an
nounced later, at which Dr. Baker will 
bo our guest of honor.
Tho Clan la planning to attend tho 
Georgetown - Carnegie basket ball 
gamo on tho evening of February 17 
in a body and do their bit in encour
aging the team.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA CLAN
HOLDS FIRST MEETING
On January 8 the Southern Califor
nia Clan assembled at Its first meet
ing oT the New Year in the Italian 
room of tho Apollo Cafe. A dinner 
chef d'couvro consisting of five 
courses from a carefully selected 
menu was well served complimenting 
the committee, Mr. R. M. Crosby and 
Mr. Jamos II. Knapp, who wore In 
charge of tho arrangements.
Dancing was engaged In during the 
ovonlng. The musical program wus 
rendered by an eight-piece orchestra.
VTYIFI present were : Mr. Thomas,
Miss Masoy, Mr. Tilton, Helen I-Iarblson Knapp. Mr. J. II. Knapp, Mr. J. 
H. Weller, ATJF McDowell, Mrs. C. M. 
Crawford, Mr. C. M. Crawford, Mrs. 
R. M. Crosby, Mr. R. M. Crosby, Dr. 
A. A. KUton, MrB. Mary McKee Itllton
NEW YORK CLAN WILL SEE
FOOTBALL MOVIES ON FEB. 3
Tho Tartan of January 2*1, contain
ed an announcement of tho biggest 
clan ovont of the yoar, the Now York 
(Hun's annual banquet aud danco. Did 
you sue It?
The affair will bo hold In tho Co
lonial room of tho Hotel McAlpIn on 
Saturday ovonlng, February 3, at 7 
p. m.
Tho program Includo: tho banquet 
Itself, an address by Dr. Thomas S. 
Bakor, acting prosldont ol' Carnogio 
Tooh, tho Tartan football movies, a 
roporl, on student activity plans and 
alunnil developments of tho past yoar, 
and last, hut not least, dunclng.
Notify S. A. Smith, 200 West Ono 
Hundred and Sixth street, Now York 
City of your Intention to bo there. 
Iflncloso a chock to cover tho number 
of places you want reserved, ut five 
dollars each. Do It now.
DETROIT CLAN WILL DANCE
ON LINCOLN'S BIRTHDAY
Cot out that little, black book or 
mark down on tho kitchen calendar 
the date of February 12, then got 
your dancing shoos out of hock, cause 
tho clan Is going to havo a sure 
enough party on the night of Abe 
Lincolns birthday. And thoso unfor
tunates who havo not wlvos had hot
ter find themselves a date because 
you're going to havo a good time.
All of the details of this affair will 
he told to you later, or if you want 
some of tho "Inside dope, call around 
at tho Army and Navy Club any Mon
day noon about twelve, and besidea a 
good luncheon, good tales, youll hear 
lots of nows.
W. R. Williams 1F ono of the ring
leaders of this affair and ho Is usually 
In his office at Wostlnghouse on Sixth 
street. Ills telephone TF Cadillac 5080. 
Ho call always tell you what's going 
on and will be glad to hear from you.
This Is going to be a chance for all 
Curnogle Tech people In Detroit. All 
Carnegie women come right along, 
too, to get acquainted, hash over old 
times and plan for more parties and 
doings.
"Brang a Carnegie man along with 
you applies to both sexes. Will I 
see you on the twelfth?
SCHOOL HEAD WILL ADDRESS
CLAN AT PHILADELPHIA
On his trip through the East, Dr. 
T. S. Baker will pauso long eonugh 
to address a mooting of tlio Philadel
phia Clan to bo held In the Engineers 
Club. All alumni who can possibly ar
range to be there are urged to bo 
present, as a pleasant evening is 
promised for all. Get In touch with 
Ilio secretary, whoso name will bo 
found In tho Directory of Clans on 
anothor part of this page.
KILTS FUND BOOSTED 
BY PITTSBURGHER
Mr, Goorgo D. Macbeth of the 
Macboth-Evana Glass Company, al
though not an Alumnus of Carnegie 
Tech, glvcB proof of Ills Interest in 
tho following letter to Frank H. 
1-Iaaren:
"My dear Mr, I-Haaren:
"I wish to acknowledge with thanks 
your letter enclosing check for $12.84 
dated January 15. (A refund on 
athletic tickets.) Since contributions 
toward tho expense of equipping tho 
Tech, Band aro In ordor, I should 
Ilk to contribute this amount to 
that fund. I am consequently re
turning your check herewith.
"Very truly yours,
"GEO. D. MacBETII. 
Not very many contributions of 
this s'sse havo come in, even from 
Carneg'e Tech AlumniIn. fact far 
too few. Let's have a few more 
pleasant surprises like this ono. 
Mako a check or money ordor out to 
O. L. Tilbrook, treasurer, and mark 
It "Kilties.
Below is the list of contributors 
for the last two weeks:
O. A. DI clan an. II. J. McCorkle, 
Winifred Cramp, Cleveland Clan, John 
P. Melcher, Ray G. Bergstrom, C. J. 
Johnson, Twlla Davis, Raymond M. 
Marller, Charles C. Wright, J. S. 
Rowe, It. W. Arnold, Julius Foster, 
Anonymous, Mrs. W. E. Douglas, Tom 
Shea, Mildred Spencer, II. L. Spen
cer, Philip Friedman, J. P. Davis, 
Lindsay Rockwell, Robert Schmertz, 
Harry A spin wall, Charley Sorber, 
Mildred Floyd, Comly Maule, Andrew 
Isles, E. Rosenswag, E. Rosensteln, 
IT. II. Wester man, Bill McQuillan, 
Brady McSwlgan, Henry DeWolf, 
Paul Sellweinberg, II. D. Watterson, 
Ben ICiirtub, L. L. Nusbnum.
HARRISBURG CLAN MEETING
PLANNED FOR FEBRUARY 5
On Monday ovonlng, February 5, 
Dr. T. S. Baker, acting prosldont of 
Carnogio Institute of Technology, 
will speak before the Harrisburg Clan 
In the Rotary Club. Evory Tochlto In 
or near Harrisburg Is urged to bo 
prosout and help mako tho mooting a 
JPMM?JFL
For further details write or phono 
tho secretary whoso imino will bo 
. found In tho Dlrootory of Clans on 
| this pago.
STUDENTS TO INSPECT
MINES AND FACTORIES
M.
(Continued on Pago Throe) 
not8 Island power plant. P, 
Brunots Island power plant.
Wednesday, February 7A. M., Na
tional Tubo Works. P. M., National 
Tube Works, McKeesport, Pa.
Friday, February 9A. M. and P 
M., Inland Collerles, Company, Indiauola mine, Ilarmorvlllo, Pa.
Sophomore Electricals.
Tuesday, February 0A. M., Wostihgbpuso Storage Battery Company, 
SwisBvale, Pa. P. M., Edgar Thom
son Steel Works, Bruddoclc, Pa.
Thursday, February SA. M., Oliver 
power plant, Pittsburgh, Pa. P. M., 
Wostlnghouse Electric and Manufac
turing Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.
M.M. Alumnae Dinner All-Day Sewing Party of 
Dance Date Changed Guild Has Been Postponed
To Take Place Feb. 12 In
stead of Feb. 14
STUDENTS VACATION
EARNING8 REPORTED
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
tlvoly small portion of tho requests 
for special linen of work. Earnings 
of $1,882,88 wore reported as ournod 
on now work, wlillo It. is estimated 
that nearly $1,000 was earned on the 
jobs olastiod as pormunont,
The girls worked at stenography, 
selling, touching, cure of children, 
checking, clerical, typing, laboratory 
work, serving, tutoring, Interior deco
rating, sewing and reading. Serving 
offered tlio largest Hold of opportunltlos, except for tho fact, according to 
Miss Hlhbs, that employers will pay 
women only about half Ilio amounts 
they are willing to pay to men, to 
wall, on tables.
A Hold of work that has boon rapid
ly developing Into profitable employ
ment for women studonts is the mak
ing of lamp lihsdos, draperies and 
other art work for various shops, ami 
oven private homes. Most of this 
work In done by students In tho Col
lege of Fine Arts. Private tutors In 
English, for foreigners, are also fre
quently tilled by this branch of the 
Bureau.
til
Choice of a Career
From the Yale News
H

THE NINETY-FOUR
Someone, probably an insurance 
agent, was quoted recently as saying 
that from the mass of one hundred 
college graduates one individual only 
rose to the Polo and butler class, peril
ously near the top of the financial lad
der. Five others became comfortably 
off and found themselves after twenty 
years at the small yacht and chauffeur 
stage. The other ninety-four presum
ably congregate in the great section of 
the American people who drive their 
own Buicks to the golf club. In other 
words, dreaming about being a rich 
man is one thing, and making the grade 
is something else again.
Yet the n inety-f our presumably work 
just as hard as the sumptuous six. Their 
business is the axis on which a small 
and uninteresting world revolves. They 
have bccome devotees of the dollar 
and when that fickle deity deserts, have 
nowhere else to turn. Jammed in a 
dull, straight rut of business they can 
never leave the road and jump tlie fence 
into finer fields of life. This, then, is 
the portion of ninecy-four men out of 
every hundred now on the campus.
The answer to the problem lies in 
the proper choice of a career.
Tlie Alumnao Calendar of events 
seems to bo doomed to changes! 
Well, were women and Its our priv
ilege to change the program as well 
as our minds, but, In the case of the 
calendar, Jt Is with very great regret 
that we do so. You will reud else
where In tho Carnegie Tartan that 
the "All Day Sewing has been Inde
finitely postponed.
The date for the dlnner-dance must 
bo changed from Wednesday, Febru
ary 14, to Monday night, February 12. 
Tho place remains the same, dinner 
in the Margaret Morrison lunch room 
at 0:30 p. m., dancing and cardB in 
the Recreation Hall following the din-, 
nor. We still have the same able 
chairman working diligently to make 
tills a real Margaret Morrison occa
sion to be remembered forever and 
ever. The chairmen have got some 
of the beBt workers in the association 
working with them, and youll really 
miss a wonderful time If you allow 
yourself to miss tills double event.
Marlon Keefer has Bernice Kruger 
helping with the dinner plans so 
make your reservations early for the 
dinner by mailing a check, money, or 
money order for $1.00 per plate to 
Bernice Kruger, In care of the. Car
negie Institute . of Technology. All 
dinner reservations should be in not 
later than Friday, February 9. Get your 
friends together and reserve a whole 
table for your party. Tables may be 
reserved for four, six, eight, ten, 
twelve or odd numbers. Kindly indi
cate in some way whether you want 
a table reserved when, you send in 
your money.
After the dinner there will be danc
ing and cards in the Recreation Hall 
for $1.00 per couple. This amount 
may be paid at the door. Do you re
member Fat Sawyer? If so, you 
know that the dance will be a jolly 
affair. If you dont know, her now, 
youll always remember her after this 
dance for she Is chucked full of clever 
Ideas. She will have tables for 
bridge, five hundred, hearts and sol
itaireso there is no reason, so far 
as plans for your entertainment are 
concerned why every alumnae 
shouldnt be there and have a good 
time.
Remember the dateFebruary 12.
It is with great regret that the 
program committee must announce a 
change in the next number on its pro
gram. The next event, as scheduled, 
Is an "all day sewing on February 
10th, In co-operation with the guild. 
This event has been postponed.
As most of us know, the Tech Guild 
(now Including the women of the 
Arts), under the direction of the 'So
cial Work Department of the School, 
has definite plans for the establish
ment and operation of a Margaret 
Morrison Settlement House in the 
Hazelwood District In the near fu
ture. When the years calendar went 
to press, the student committees 
working on the house plans felt con
fident that by February 10 they would 
be In need of towels, curtains, cush
ions, bedding, etc., for the new house. 
As the alumnae never want to be left 
entirely out in any good work for 
Tech, especially in such big endeav
ors, they very gladly pledged one 
whole day of their precious time to 
help equip the house by sewing. They 
were even planning a lark out of it 
with lunch n everything along with 
real hard work. The house commit
tee feels that the funds at present 
available are insufficient to start the 
undertaking, therefore the house has 
not yet been procured, and for this 
reason it was deemed best not to do 
any sewing until the committees had 
specific plans and definite needs in 
mind.
It is hoped, however, that the in
terest in the cause will not weaken 
and die on account of this necessary 
postponement, for we alumnae are in 
sympathy with the project. We feel 
that the establishment of such a set
tlement operated solely by Carnegie 
Tech women would be a worth-while 
achievement, and we also feel that 
the time is ripe to put across some
thing really big and worthy of our 
Alma Mater.
Therefore, the "All Day Sewing is 
only postponed!
PLANS FINALLY COMPLETE
FOR JUNIOR PROM
Senior Metallurgists.
Monday, February 5A. M., .Tonos 
anil Laughlln Stool Works, Woodlawn, 
Pa. P. M., Villain Crucible Steel 
Compnny, Allqulppii, Pa.
Wednesday, February 7A. M., 
American Stool; and Wire Works, Do
nors, Pa, P. M., Amorlcan Steel and 
Wire Works, Donora, Pa.
Friday, February 9A. M., Mesta 
Machine Company. P. M Duquosno 
Stool Works.
Juniors.
Entire Wook- Laboratory work,
Soph.
Laboratory work.
andSenior Choinlcrtl Enulnoor 
ChomlHto.
Tuosduy- A. M., Clair,ton By-Products Plant of Carnogio Stool Com
pany., Clalrton, Pa. P. M., iClalrton 
By-Products Plant of Carnogio Stool 
Company, Clalrton, Pa.
WednesdayA. M., lecture, Mr. 
Bennett of Schuette-Koertlng Com
pany. P. M., Universal Portland Co 
ment Company, Universal, Pa,
Thursday and FridayLaboratory 
work.
Junior and Sophomore.
Laboratory workentire week.
Junior and Seniors, Mining Engineers
Entire week devoted to a course 
In mine rescue and safety work at 
Bureau of Mines.
'Faculty News and Notes
S. E. Dibble, assistant professor of 
the Heating, Ventilating and Sanita
tion Department, represented Carneglo Tech at the 29th annual meet
ing of the Amorlcan Society of Heat
ing and Ventilating Engineers, in ses
sion In Washington, D. C., January 23 
to 20. Mr. Dibble is second vice pres
ident of tho society.
(Continued From Page One.) 
requests that no tables be mpved. 
After dinner, dancing will continue 
until 2:00 a. m.
Adequate check room facilities 
have been obtained. It is hoped 
that each man will hold but one 
check, as this will reduce confusion 
and save time. The Schenley man
agement has promised! sufficient taxi
cabs at tlx close of tne dance, no 
reservations need be made.
The committee. lias obtained the 
use of Hie smalll ball room in addi
tion to the regular dancing floor. 
This extra space will provide half 
again as much room as has formerly 
been available at the Junior Prom. 
The increose in floor space was pro
vided for by having the dinner 
served in tlio main dining room and 
the two adjacent wings.
Prof. C. C. Diiinnells, head of tho 
Department of Building Construction, 
and Professor F. M. McCullough, bond 
of tho Dopartmont of Civil Engineer
ing, represented Carnogio at tho an
nual mooting In Cincinnati this week 
of tho Amorlcan Concrete Institute,
Profossor F. M. McCullough, head 
of tho Dopartmont of Civil Engineer 
ing, Is representing Carnogle Insti
tute of Technology this wook at tho 
annual convention of tho American 
Concreto Instituto at Cincinnati.
Professor W. Trinks, head of the 
Department of Mechanical Engineer 
Ing at Carnegie Tech, will speak 
Tuesday evening, January 30, on 
"Smoke Abatement befojre the Asso
ciated Womens Clubs of Oil City. On 
the following noon, Professor Trinks 
will lecture before the Kiwants Club 
of Oil City ou "The Place of the En
gineering Graduate in the Industries.
Friday, February 9A. M., Oliver 
Power Plant. P. M., Oliver Power 
Plant.
Sophomores.
Entire week in laboratory work.
Between now and Commencement 
we shall have something to offer on 
the subject of Careers. Watch for 
the space with the Famous Signature.
Senior Mechanicals.
Monday, February 5A. M., Heinz 
Bottle Works. P. M., American Win
dow Glass Company, Arnold, Pa.
Tuesday, February 6A. M., 
Pressed Steel Car Company, McKees 
Rocks, Pa. P. M., .Pittsburgh and 
Lake Erie shops.
Wednesday, February 7A. M., Duquesno Light Company. P. M., 
American Steal and Wire Company, 
Rankin, Pa.
Thursday, February 8A. M Car
nogio Library. P. M., 'Carnogio Li
brary.
Friday, December 9Duquosn-3
Steel Company.
m
2:0P AGETWOGHP CRNIOGDS
or 2:0P:AG ET00TWOH0CPP0
Junior Mechanicals.
Monday, February 5 A. M
Byers Company. P. M Mosto Mar 
chine Company.
Tuesday, February GA. M., Pitts
burgh and Lalco Erlo shops, McKeos 
Rocks, Pa. P. M., PresBOd Stool Car 
Company, McKees Rocks, Pa.
Wednesday, February 7A. M. 
Standard Sanitary Corunny. P. M,
Thursday, February SA. M.,
Farmers Bank Building. P. M.
Friday, February 9.
Sophomore Mechanicals. 
Monday. February 5A. M. P. M. 
Tuesday, February 6A. M., Jones 
and Lauglilin Steel Company, Soho, 
P. M., A. M Byers Company.
Wednesday, February 7A. M., 
Gazette Times Company. P. M., 
Mesta Machine Company.
Physicists.
Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores 
will take trips with some of the 
other Departments of Science.
Senior Civiis.
West Penn Companys coal mines at 
Springdale, Pa.; West Penn Com
panys power plaat at Springdale, 
Pa.; Sanlcey Brothers brick plant; 
Goldie Manufacturing Companys 
concrete block plant, Concrete Pro
ducts Companys plant, PittsburghDes Moines steel plant, American Re
duction Companys rubbish disposal 
plant, Offices of Bureau of Water 
and Sewers of City of Pittsburgh, 
Amorlcan Window Glass plant at 
Arnold, Pa., United States Weather 
Bureau, Reinforced Concrete Build 
lugs.
Juniors.
West Penn Companys coal mine 
at Sprlngdalo, Pa., West Penn Com
pany's potvOr plant at Sprlngdalo, Pa., 
Sankoy Brothers brick plant, Goldio 
Manufacturing Company's concrete 
block plant, Concrete Products Company's plant, Plttsburgh-Des Moines 
stool plant, Stripping Operation near 
Universal, Pa., Universal Portland 
Comont. plant at Universal Pa., 
American Window Glass plant at Arn
old, Pa., Jones and Laughllns South 
Side plant, Ross, Asplnwall and Bril
liant pumping stations.
Bill Says:
FORGIVENESS
Forgiveness by a person is volun
tarily giving forth an injury that may 
depart from him out of sight and out 
of mind.
Complete forgiveness implies giving 
up the right to punish the offender, 
dismissal of ill will toward him, and 
the revival of those friendly feelings 
which it becomes us to cherish. It 
is a virtue that grows out of duty in 
connection with wrong doers and indi
cates that the one who forgives 
should forget the offense.
In the forgiving spirit, there is the 
condition of self restraint, a quality 
necessary to keep back resentment. 
There is courage which enables us to 
rise above the wrongs done to injure 
us, and there is promptness in that 
forgiveness if exercised properly is 
granted when pardon is asked.
On the other hand there are condi
tions under which the offender must 
comply. A doer of wrong injures an
other and commits an offense against 
himself. Forgiveness in its fullness 
requires that both wrongs be made 
right. This result is secured by con
sent of both parties.
Forgiveness is the most refined 
pitch of manly quality that human na
ture can attain. Its worth is seen in 
the nobleness of character which at
tends it. It is the most inspiring motime found in the great reward which 
awaits those who forgive, that they 
may be forgiven.The Crimson-Black 
of Hamilton College.
Tho program designed by Vincent 
Roy is very attractive. It will un
doubtedly be a beautiful memento of 
the occasion. The cover is an es
pecially fine piece of work.
The plans for the decorations, have 
been approved by the committee and 
no expense is being, spared to put 
them into execution'. The favors are 
now in Pittsburgh and they will prob
ably attract more attention than any 
of the many features of the evening.
The committee wishes to restate 
that corsages should not be worn aud 
that final tickets should be purchased 
at once. Dancing starts at 9:00 p. m. 
and will continue until 2:00 a. m.
LATEST STYLES
FORMAL DRESS 
At Lowest Price 
In City
$3-50
Dress Suit Rental 
Company
404 PITTSBURGH LIFE 
BUILDING 
PhoneSmithfield 294
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
MR. ALFORD, MINING ENGINEER, 
TALKS TO MINING STUDENTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
experience in opening coal mines in 
West Virginia and Kentucky. He 
also related some very sad cases in 
which insufficient development work 
had been done before the equipment 
had been erected, consequently the 
coal bed did not hold up to Its expec
tations and a great deal of money was 
lost in the promotion of the mine.
The next lecture will be by Mr. 
Alford and he will continue the dis
cussion of coal property develop
ment and will emphasize the erec
tion of equipment and buildings.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Mens Junior Prom.........................................Hotel Schenley, 9:30 P. M.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3
New York Clan Annual Banquet and Dance...........................7:00 P. M.
Hotel McAlpin, Broadway and 34th St., New York City 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5
Harrisburg Clan Meeting........................................Rotary Club, Evening
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 0
Philadelphia Clan Meeting..............................Engineers Club, Evening
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7
Washington, D. C., Clan Dinner...................................................Evening
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
Arts Ball...................................College of Fine Arts, C. I. T., 9:00 P. M.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10
Post Ball Dance.....................................Arts Foyer, C. I. T.. 9:00 P. M.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16 
Buffalo Clan Meeting.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21 
Inter-Honorary Dance...........,......:............Carnegie Union, 9:00 P. M.
j After Every Meal
mmms
Top off each meal with a bit ol sweet in the form 
of WRIGLEYS.
It satisfies the sweet tooth and aids digestion.
Pleasure and benefit combined.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Eeserve System.
Capital - - .................$200,000.00
Surplus and \Jndivided
Profits........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
Sophomores.
Liberty Tunnols, American Window 
Glass plant at Arnold, Pa., Coal Mine 
and Stripping Operation at Burgettstown, Pa., JoneS and Laughlins South 
Side Steel plant, a study of the use 
of the Carnegie Library.
1
AKRONSecretarj'-, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnertli, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 1320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. WaF .ice, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inez Heacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
M0N0NGA1LELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shenango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuekalioe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Technology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
Compliments g 
of M
Skibo Inn 1
The Personal Writing Machine
