CARNEGIE 
BIRTHDAY PARTY 
FRIDAY EVE.Glljf (Jaran
NEXT TARTAN 
FOOTBALL 
EDITION
VOL. XVI. HO. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1921
COUNCIL TO 
ACT ON GYM.
To Help Plan Activities Head
quarters in New Gym. Will 
Award Cheer Leader 
Insignia
DEGREE RING SOON
The Activities Committee, a sub
committee of the Alumni Federation 
Gym Committee, reported Its -work 
to date to the Student Council 
through, its student member, Cy 
Unzicker. It also asked the Stu
dent Council to express its opinion 
in regard to making the new 
gym headquarters for the various 
student activities. A committee com
posed of Mills and Reid was appoint
ed to draw up suggestions for room 
and space facilities for the different 
campus boards and activities.
The Athletic Council, reeling that 
the position of cheerleader was
more of a student activity asked 
that it be relieved of the work of 
awarding insignia for that position. 
The present method o selection of 
cheerleaders has been more or less 
unsatisfactory. The Student Council 
believes that the student body can 
work up a more satisfactory manner 
in -which to handle the election of 
cheerleaders through ' the Student 
Council by putting it on a competi
tive basis. To this end a committee 
composed of Godden, Henderson and 
Willard was appointed to formulate 
plans for the election of tne cheer
leaders. The committee will also 
work upon the selection of suitable 
insignia for cheerleaders.
Henderson reported that the Ring 
Committee is working on the mat
ter of a degree ring and expects 
to get a suitable design soon.
Safety First was appointed by 
the council to look into the sale of 
seals and Carnegie jewelry on the 
campus. An effort is being made 
to standardize the seals and jewelry 
sold to undergraduates so that it 
will have a greater meaning to 
them.
MID-WEST CLUB
The fourth meeting of the Mid-West 
Club was held in Room 124, Indus
tries Building, last Wednesday. Plans 
for the Thanksgiving banquet were 
discussed. It was decided upon to 
hold the banquet at the Chatham Ho
tel at six-thirty Thursday evening, 
November the twenty-fourth.
Six new members were taken into 
the club.
Several of the members of the 
club are planning on having a special 
car when they leave for home at the 
beginning of the Christmas recess. 
All mid-western men who go through 
to Chicago and who would be inter
ested in this plan, see Mr. Hirtzman 
or Mr. Travis or write to Travis, Box 
209, C. I. T. Post Office.
SCIENCE GRADS BUILD
TRACTOR SHOVEL
Arts Theater
The Home of High-Brow Stuff
Announces a sterling bill of 
Entertainment.
Friday Evening, November 25th
A Glorious Aggregation of 
Infinitesimal Talent.
COHEN AND MURPHY
In their dramatic sensation 
THE MOTHER TESTIFIES
HIGH AND DRY"
In their uproarious sketch 
WHO ROCKED THE BOAT?
THE ALABAMA SONG BIRD 
FROM FOOTBALL TO 
FOOTLIGHTS
The Anaesthetic Symphony 
THE LIMPID MUD PUDDLE
The Blaok and White Company
"THE HOLE IN CUPIDS 
POCKET
C. M. E. S. HOLD 
MEETING
Dean of Uni. of Kentucky 
Speaks. Representative 
to New York
Machinery Hall, long the threshold 
from which graduating engineers have 
entered into their life work, has dur
ing the past few months, been the 
scene of a new accomplishment in tliie 
way of theoretical engineering being 
put to practice. In addition to being 
the scene of the building of a new 
mechanical device it has been the 
first stepping stone after graduation 
for a half score of Tech graduates.
The mechanical device is a Fordson tractor shovel that is probably at
tracting the' eyes of many who have j 
chanced to enter the Mechanical Lab
oratory.
The inventor, Mr. Martin of Somer
set, Pa., in the summer of 1920, was 
confronted with the problem of build
ing a service station in the locality 
where a great deal of excavation was 
necessary. To pay the transportation 
of a steam shovel to the site of the 
service station would have meant a 
large outlay of money. In his need 
of an instrument of greater effici
ency tlian a hand pick, but less bulky 
than a steam shovel, he conceived the 
idea of a tractor shovel driven by gas 
potfer machinery. After experiment
ing with a make-shift shovel consist
ing of a Fordson tractor and other 
equipment, he saw the feasibility of 
his idea and discussed the matter 
with Professor Trinks of the Mechan
ical Department. From this point the 
designing of the shovel has been con
nected with the names of several Tech 
men who carried out the idea of Mr. 
Martin, the inventor.
Mr. Keller of the class of 15, Night 
Science, together with J. Monstrean, 
Science, 21. were put to work on the 
elementary design and calculations 
involved in the manufacture of the 
model shovel.
T. W. Allsworth, Science, 20, as 
supervisor, together withS P. L. Irwin, 
L. Newman. A. Edstom and L. A. 
Yoder all of the class of 21, took care 
of the detailing of the machine after 
which patterns and castings were 
made. The above, together with Mr. 
Geist and Mr. Irwin, father of P. L. 
Irwin, took care of the assembling.
The shovel now stands in the Me
chanical Laboratory, having gone 
through the preliminary test and will 
after its tests are run next week, 
stand as one. of the triumphal achieve
ments of the Mechanical Engineer
ing Department.
Dean Anderson of the University 
of Kentucky was the principal 
speaker of the evening at the meet
ing of the Carnegie Mechanical En
gineering Society last Thursday 
evening. He gave an excellent ad
dress and one which was well worth 
hearing by student engineers.
President Kenney opened the 
meeting and after the business had 
been cleared away introduced Dean 
Anderson. Dea'n Anderson has held 
the position of Dean at the Univer
sity of Kentucky for thirty years 
and has had wide experience with 
students, especially engineering stu
dents.
in nis address he emphasized the 
fact that the most important sub
ject to an engineer is English. One 
can not be a leader of industry 
without a good command of English 
He defined engineering as the art 
and science of directing and organ
izing men and controlling tho ener
gies and forces of the earth for tho 
benefits of mankind. In order to di
rect and organize men an engineer 
must understand men and how to 
handle them. The function of the 
technical college is first: to make 
a man of the student; second, to 
train the student thoroughly in the 
essentials of engineering, and third, 
to send him out in the world in an 
humble attitude, not thinking that 
he knows all, but with a willingness 
to learn.
After the address four reels of 
moving pictures were shown. They 
were industrial pictures sent out by 
tho General Electric Company, illus
trating the way in which their large 
generator and turbines are construct
ed.
At the end of the meeting it was 
voted to send a member to the na
tional meeting of the student branch 
of the American Society of .Mechan
ical Engineers to be held in New 
York. Thi-. Honorary Chairman, Pro
fessor Trinks, will appoint the one 
who is to represent the Tech 
branch.
PLEBES GIVEN TEST
STEFFEN AT 
SMOKER
Fitting Farewell to Success
ful SeasonLanahan and 
Overend TalkSmokes 
anc^Drinks Abound
SQUAD IS HONORED
Absolutely! The football smoker, 
held on Saturday night was a great 
success. Plenty of smokes, doughnuts, 
apples and root beer and ended the 
best football seasn in Techs his
tory, for the season cannot be said 
to be over until after the football 
smoker.
Coach Wallie Steffen commended 
the team on its showing and the 
spirit of friendliness that has existed 
among the members of the squad 
throughout the entire season. There 
was probably a great deal of truth in 
his statement It was lucky that we 
did not play Pitt this yearFor them. 
Next year we hope to get a game with 
one of the big Eastern colleges such 
as Yale, Harvard or Princeton and 
were going there with the determina
tion to lick them and put Carnegie 
Tech on the football map for all 
time. Absolutely.
Bob Waddell and Absolutely Bud
dy Overend had great things to say 
for this years team and our prospects 
for next year. Mr. Lanahan, newly 
elected member of the Athletic Coun
cil. spoke on the growth of Tech in 
the Athletic world.
Every one rejoiced on hearing tlint 
Jimmie Anderson, star halfback, had 
been elected captain for the coming 
year. Andy has worked hard in every 
game and lie will certainly be a fit
ting man to pilot the 1922 gridders 
through another successful season.
A1 Irwin, as well as tho other mem
bers of the squad, spoke briefly, it is 
true, but at any rate indicated that 
they were highly satisfied with the 
season just passed. While no official 
word was given out regarding the 
schedule for next year we are sure of 
one that will tax the ability of the 
squad of next season, even though wo 
lose but three members of the tenm. 
Irwin, Godden and Henderson.
School taldnl furnished the enter
tainment for the evening and the 
songs by Newman and the Divorce 
Sketch brought on rounds of laugh
ter. Doc Taylor gave a very graphic 
representation of a Snake dance, us
ing .'Snake Producer instead of a 
snake, making references to tho 
spirit of the team.
It was surely some smoker. Abso
lutely.
PITT-TECH SMOKER 
PLANS APPROVED
What am I best fitted for?
This question Invariably confronts 
the Freshman as he enters the college 
to choose is course of study.
What do you like? the director 
may ask, and the Freshman, with a 
vacant look usually answers, I dont 
know.
In many institutions of learning a 
system is being adopted and worked 
out that aids the undecided entry In 
choosing his line of study. For in
stance, at the University of Nevada 
an intelligence test is given to Fresh
men and special students on enter
ing the university to begin the years 
work. This tost is given for the pur
pose of determining in what field'the 
individual is best adapted. The ques
tions given cover so many subjects 
that the long and short points of 
the student are readily ascertained. If 
such a system were adopted at this 
institution many misfits would be pre
vented and many undecided Fresh
men would be placed in the realm in 
which they would function best.
At the meeting of tho inter-frater
nity council November 19, the plan 
for bettering relations between Pitt 
and Tech as brought forthi at the PittTech smoker held at tho XI Sigma 
Upsilon house, was ondorsed. Tho 
Inter-fraternity council went on rocord as being in favor of any plan 
which would bring about a resump
tion of good friendly spirit- between 
the two schools.
The plan as outlined calls for fur
ther social activities such as dances 
and smokers in which students of 
both institutions will participate.
It is important that the Inter-frater
nity council has given its endorse
ment at this time as the success of 
the plan depends largely upon the 
enthusiasm displayed by the students 
and student organizations. Further
more, it is important that the enthu
siasm should be manifested primar
ily by the students of our Institution, 
as the students of Pitt look to us for 
a manifestation of real sincerity.
The plan -will be taken up in the 
near future by the inter-fraternity 
council of Pitt at which time a mo
tion endorsing the plan is expected to 
pass without dissension. A meeting of 
the committees from both schools 
will then be called and real work will 
be started on the arrangements for 
the Interschool functions anticipated.
CARNEGIE BIRTH
DAY CELEBRATION
Plans for tlio Carnegie Birthday 
Celebration are still under way, and 
from all indications, the party given 
by the school authorities,. November 
25, Friday night, is going to bo one 
of tho big occasions ol the year. 
Students should not overlook this op
portunity for a real celebration, for 
the entire evening will be FREE.
The following committee is work
ing hard to make tho Carnegie 
Birthday Celebration the enjoyable! 
affair it promises to be; undergrad
uates, Messrs. Nation, Budke, lleiJ. 
McClure, Blesch and Unsiker; alum
nae, Messrs. Bright, Walto'h and ,TUbrook. An informal theatrical per
formance will be given by the stu
dents of the day colleges at 8:15 
in the theater. Dancing will start 
at 9:30, in the Foyer and Exhibition 
Room. A shortened theatrical per
formance will be given at 11:00 p. 
m. The members of the Executive 
Board with their wives will receive.
A unique feature of the occasion 
will be a song, written by Professors 
Lang and Stevens, and sung under 
the direction of Mr. OBrien. An 
alumni quartet of 10, will sing some 
songs, and can be depended upon 
for some stunts.
Tickets can be secured at the of
fice of Secretary Baker between tho 
hours of 12:00 and 1:00 p. m.
Be sure and come! Its going to 
be' big.
ANDERSON 
NEW CAPT.
Football Squad and CrossCountry Team Guests of 
Honor at Varsity Clan 
Banquet
Y. M. C. A. WORKERS 
HOLD BANQUET
From a beanery to a banquet hall 
in one night was the way any oue 
of tho three hundred workers might 
have described tlio scene of tho 
banquet *at which the Y. M. C. A. 
membership campaign was launched 
last Tuesday evening, in addition 
to being a Y banquot it was a 
Tech banquot from beginning to end 
Toeli students furnished the mu
sic, Tech girls waited on the tablo.s 
Tech songs and cheers put pop in 
the gathering, and a Tocli alumnus 
J. C. Hobbs of tho Class of 10, 
Scie'nce, presided. ,
Tho banquot was tho first move
ment toward the firm establishment 
of tho Y on tho Tech campus, 
long advocated by various school or; 
ganizations as well as by members 
of the administration and faculty.
Only thoso pros|nt could appreci
ate the sincerenetfs of tho movomont 
as brought out by tho main speaker, 
W. L. Wishart, a graduate of Musk
ingum College, 11, and president of 
the "Y at that place, and tho ovldonce of tho benefit that will cer
tainly be derived by the Y on tlio 
campus was Indelibly stamped on 
the minds of all who heard1 Mr. 
Wishart A largo part of tho suc
cess of tho campaign is diroctly duo 
to his address for tho throo hundred 
workers who hoard him woro so im
pressed with tho manner and con
tent of tho talk that they, took up 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
BONUS FOR COACH
The annual Varsity Clan banquot 
for the football team held in the Var 
sity Clan Cafeteria was a most pro
nounced success. In every respect it 
was all that could have been desired. 
Everyone was in his best mood, while 
tho spirit, which surely did its part 
toward making it tho most enjoyable 
evening spent in quite a while was 
sure there.
Tho football squad, cross-country 
team, managers and assistant man
agers were the guests of honor ou 
the occasion and as such occupied 
seats out in the front row of tables. 
Tho tables were arranged in a C" 
emblematic of Carnegie Tech.
Enos Kirkpatrick placed a most 
appetizing! repast upoiv tjli'o tables, 
which the hungry football men lost 
no time in tackling, and in short time 
succeeding in overcoming tho various 
and sundry vitals. Tho meal was in
terspersed with tho shrill whistle of 
buns and applo-coros as tlioy passed 
now and then from tho football table 
toward Bert MunhaUs corpulont form, 
the squad taking groat delight in reap
ing revenge for the unmannerly treat
ment accorded them as they ofton 
laid holple3s upon tho massago tablo.
But in time tlio foast had boon con
sumed and the ontortalnmont, aside 
from feeding ones faco bogan.
The first ovent was tho so-callod 
football quartette. No ono seomcd to 
know who tlio personnel of said 
quartetto was, not ovon tho members 
thomsolves. But in tlmo, by various 
exhortations and arguments botwoon 
tho "hopefuls, a group of four men 
finally stood out. In front' to "faco tho 
music by giving their vorslon of 
music.
Those, having gained a point of 
vantage, bogan Its series o 
excruciating tortures by emit
ting many sounds of various 
and sundry Inarticulate natures, and 
thereby' provod to tho audience their 
ability to rondor itself a thorough 
nuisance. Amid many bouquets of 
buns, olivoa and applo-coros tho quar
tet ceased its exhibition, much to tho 
rolief of ovoryono.
After this a littlo moro tlmo was 
consumed in devouring tlio dessert, 
whon tlio really serious pari of tho 
evening -was performed. Managor 
(Continued on Pago Throo.)
PRIZES OFFERED FOR 
NEW TECH SONGS
MEN WANTED FOR ADVER
TISING STAFF OF THISTLE
The advertising staff of the 1922 
Thistle needs ten men to solicit ad
vertising. Men of tlio under classes 
will find this an excellent method of 
qualifying for the Thistle Board whon 
they become Juniors, while to all stu
dents it affords an opportunity for 
obtaining practical experience in sell
ing. Those who are intorestod will 
find the advertising managor of This
tle in the Thistle olllce, Room 5-B In
dustries building, at nooti every day. 
Report at once.
INDUSTRIES SOPH. MEETING
The Sophontoros in tho College of 
Industries hold their weekly class 
meeting last week on Tuesday. Last 
weolt they took tho socond-yoar 11011- 
dogreo men Into their class and in
stead of there being two groups of 
second-year men in Industries thore 
will only be one after this.
The Sophs, also votod favorable on 
the plan of having a throo eollogo 
Soph, banquet.
TECH WINS 
LAST GAME
Maryland Hold Score to Tie 
During First Half; Mills, 
Sawer and Weirman 
Star; Field Muddy
CLOSE OF SEASON
MEETING NEW 
GYM COMM.
Sub-Divisions of Committee 
Made to Decide on 
Site Soon
INDUSTRIES JUNIORS MEET
The Juniors in the College of In
dustries held a class meeting last 
Thursday and settled several ques
tions in regard to the Junior Prom. 
They decided to collect dues of $1.50 
from each member instead of having 
a single assessment  lhe mem
bers going to the PrcA f\amount 
is to cover minor exujft I'M -ill will
occur before the Hal 1 ' was
the general opinion lember should help d-. 
pense. President --r 
the following comjul ^ 
plier/ chairman; TheActi
Lloyd Fisher. 1 
It was also dec 
of 10 cents fron/J^ 
chine Productio 
chanics Club.
NEW COUNCIL MEMBER
Miss Boynton of the Psychology 
Department, has been elected to 
represent that group on the Inter 
Dormitory Council.
CARNEGIE MENORAH SOCIETY
A very successful and interesting 
meeting was held Sunday, November
13. The program for the year is well 
under way. The next meeting, held 
jointly with the University of Pitts
burgh Menorali Society, will be held 
on Tuesday, November 29, at 8:00 p. 
m. sharp in Room 301, Alumni Hall, 
on the Pitt campus. Tho speaker of 
the evening will be Dr. Samuel II. 
Goldenson of the Rodef Shalom tem
ple of this city. All students are In
vited to attend this meeting, and 
urged not to miss hearing Dr. Gold
enson. Tho next joint meeting will 
be held on our own campus.
JUNIOR CLASS MEETING
The Junior classmen met and de
cided to start a preliminary payment 
nfor the Junior Promtrying to soften 
the shock, as it were.
L<
THE Y. M. C. A.
If, as students, wo woro to analyze 
all of tho * activities on tho campus 
hero at.Tech, we would find that op
portunity is afforded for almost every 
typo of human development. Tho 
factors which contribute to mental 
and physical development are so 
obvious, that no mention need bo 
made of thorn. Moral development 
at Carnegie, however, though equal
ly as vital as tho other two 1ms re 
ceived but little thought up to the 
present time.
The Tech Branch of the Y. M. C 
A. was founded to elemlnato this one 
glaring weakness in our growing in
stitution Its existence will have 
as definite an effect on things mor
al, here at t>chool, as have studies 
and athletics on mental and physical 
conditions.
Tho Tech Y. M. C. A. is here to ' 
stand for everything on the campus 
which is big and fine, for everything 
which will place our school higher 
among the colleges of the country 
and for the development of char
acter, manliness and friendship in 
all of the citizens of the campus.
Not to raise up points concerning 
sect or doctrine, but to keep the 
worth while things of life in com
mon view; not to institute unwel
come changes In the accepted order 
here at Tech, but to back each 
worthy cause, which needs its aid, 
that is mission of our Y. M. C. A.
Does not this organization then 
fill a vital place in Techs needs 
and Tech activities.
Among the activits already spon
sored by the Tech Y. M. C. A. are:
Senior Freshman Councilor groups 
with monthly supper meetings.
Monday noon-hour chapel meetings 
in the little theater, with short ad
dresses by men of nation wide 
prominence.
Weekly discussion groups. Em
ployment and co-operation with 
school employment bureau and city 
Y. M. C. A.
Tutoring of athletes and other 
students in need of help.
Weekly services at Hclionloy High 
School.
In each of these activities and in 
tho muny others which will be suim
ported from tlmo to time by the 
Tech "Y there is a source of bene
fit or an opportunity for service for 
every Tech man. Tho Y. M. C. A. 
office, 124 Industriel, is always open 
and Secretary Davb will be glad to 
talk to you at an;] time. Stop in 
and see him.
Duo to lack of sufflciQnt matorlid 
for a complete hook, thin contest 
was carried ovor from last year and 
Is now under way. Tho sumo rules 
hold good, namely. It must bo an 
Alma Mator with old music and now 
words, or both original, or a poppy 
song of football typo, campus scan
dal, etc., or somothlng like "Dear 
Old Tocli or Thoro Was a Grand 
Old Fellow.
Its up to you to turn in material 
for this now book and make It a 
big college song carrier, like wovo 
never had boforo. Tho contest closos 
February 1, The Judges (Mrs. J. O 
O'Brien being ono), will announco 
prize winners as soon after the cc/htest closes as possible. Three prizes 
going to an Alma Mater or tlireo 
prizes to the peppy school song.
Now everybody get busy and 11 nd 
an old tune you like, get a little 
campus scandal and use your pen 
to the advantage of getting that 
prize. We need a lot of new mater
ial to make thisi worth while and 
wo also know that Tech has the 
kind of people to write up the kind 
of songs we want, for we found that 
out last year, but didnt get enough 
to make a large hook. All youve 
got to remember is:
1An old tune with new words.
2Both music and words original.
3An Alma Mater or
4A si.appy school song.
5And have it in by February 1.
It will bo gratifying to ovory Tocli 
supportor to Know tnat tho plans for 
tlio new gymilaslum are boing care
fully considered. At the beginning of 
last woolc, tho executive gymnasium 
committoo held soveral moetlngs. 
Tills committoo is composed of reprosontatlvos from tho Board of Trustoos, Alumni and Faculty. Tho porBonnol is as follows:
Board of Trustees  William Frow, 
John S. Horron, Augustus K. Olivor.
AlumniM. M. Steen, Euf^ono Dow
ling, M. R. Walton.
Faculty* Dr. llamorsehlag, Dr. Esquorro, Prof. McCollough.
Mr. Frank Orb ill will roprosont Dr. 
Humorschlag whon ho canot attend.
Tills committoo mot on November 
14 and oloctod Mr. Frow as chairman, 
after which it adjourned to discuss 
location.
On Novombor 15 tho committee 
met again and had a general discusslon. Later it adjourned to wait for reports front another committee call* 
od tho Alumni Federation Building 
Committee.
The alumni repreiientatlves men
tioned above are the representatives 
of tho lattor committee. On the Al
umni Federation Building Committoo 
uro representatives of tho alumni 
from the four schools, together with 
the Athlotlc Council and two students, 
lly this moans tho students are rep
resented and tlieir needs can he ex
plained.
Tho personnel of the Alumni Fedor 
atlon Building Committoo Is as fol
lows:
Arts, W. Y. Coclcon, Mrs. J. J. John
ston; Industries, J. W. Batman, 8. G. 
Little; M. M. 1)., Helen Stewart, Edna 
Smith; Science, F. 11, Oogswoll, M. 
U. Walton, chalnnaii; ox-oidoio, M. 
M. Steen, Iflugono Dowling.
.Student Representatives  Carl 
Fold, Paul Unzlclcor.
Athlotlc CouncilFrank Haaron, 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Y. W. C. A. NOTES
Miss Marian Jones, the under
graduate field representative, has 
just returned from the annual con
ference at Philadelphia, where she 
gathered together a great many 
practical suggestions for the organi
zation.
The candle light service of the 
Y. W. wits held last Wednesday at 
which time each girl lighted ha 
candle for friendship from tlio thre* 
points of the triangle.
There will bo no meeting this 
afternoon, it being the "evo of 
holiday/ whon a groat many peoplewill be hustling off home for Thanks 
giving.
RETURN FROM CONFERENCE
vsCo Helen R. Reed, Student Gov
ernment President, and Miss Helen 
Macnim, Junior Representative from 
Dormitory Council, have returned 
from the Student Government Coun 
1 cil at Simmon's College, Boston.
BEAUX ARTS JURY
Techs Architectural Department 
went ovor the top again. Returns of 
judgment on tho first Senior class 
problem of tho year show Tech to bo 
amongst tho loadors of all tho ar
chitectural schools of the country. 
Tho problem was a naval pantheon, 
and tho following mon received sec
ond medals: Polllgrinl, Burko, Mlnlck and Klee. In addition every momher of tho Senior class participating 
received mentions.
JR. CHEMICAL PARTY
The Junior Chemicals staged a 
swimming party- in the Pittsburgh 
Natatorium Friday, November 18. 
These pickling baths are a means of 
getting rid of excess weight and have 
not been given the proper importance 
to date.
DRAMA DEPARTMENT
HOLDS PARTY
The Drama students gave a very 
delightful little party in their de
partment last Friday evening, No
vember 18. It was the 1921 edition 
of the annual affair given by the 
upperclassmen in honuor of tho in
coming class. No one but people of 
their department and a few faculty 
members were Invited. In answer 
to a request, tho guests all arrived 
togged out as youngsters between 
tho ages of 1 and 10 years. A short 
play was given in tho Little Theater 
and also soveral additional stunts. 
Delicious eats woro served and all 
enjoyed themselves Immonsoly.
INDUSTRIES TRIAL
Last Wednesday 30 Plobes wore 
brought before Judge Cassidy. All 
hut two were sentenced to work on 
tho athletic field tho other two will 
wear fitting costumes for a few 
days.
W. W. McCoullough has resigned 
as chairman of tho Plobo Regula
tion Committee H*n office has been 
taken over by Yockoy.
After boing held to a scoreless tin 
by Muryhuid throughout tho euliro 
first half, tho Toch gridiron artists 
oponed tlioir steamroller tactics, itnd 
literally waded through their oppo
nents for a 21 lo 0 victory. The 
same was played last Saturday bo
foro a largo rainy-day crowd, who 
were amply repaid for their courago 
in braving tho oloments, for ilioy 
saw as woudeful an exhibition ot 
real football as has been seea this 
season. While Tech did not have to 
show all I bey had in the wav of 
Plays, they were nevertheless com
pelled to show a large assortment 
01 straight football which pulled-off. 
UB^lt was, was most brilliant.
Toch won on Its merits of having 
a group of players who played as a 
well coached, and flnoly drilled 
team. This team had in its assort
ment Its wonderful backileld, who 
were enabled to plunge through tho 
luo for substantial gains, duo lo tho 
immense and1 gaping holos opened 
up by tho hard charging of the for
wards. Asido from this, tho fast 
bucks, wore again and again rushed 
around the ends for long and brliHam. gains, mudo posslblo by tbo 
great oat and most effective cloak of 
Interferoneo over soon on Tell Field 
sloven in Htlrtmrgh. Maryland 
tul no cluiuco whatever to get to 
tin' runner carrying tho ball, ho 
was no woll protected by tho screen 
IT men running as his protectors it 
''as II most beautiful sight to sou 
7 "t four or live men runnlug parallel to, and1 ahead of ono
........ J-"' oh' to tin, ,lWo
1,1 "i" hist man, ran tho man wlih 
m ball. The Intorforenoo seemed to 
>* a porfoot lando,n, and was,....... m. imi.i
.................... through many hard
I,'"111'"' Practico, And ....... were
"">01  ...... ......  
r1'';;, ..... n"""'r "own1 1,1,1 rosourcoH, at .......I,
""" 1,0 Invariably can,., II,lough 
" most brilliant exhlblllon of
.... 11,11,1 .......lug, zig-zagging
bin k and forth, dodging would-be tack,m,l oven retracing bin slop,, ,,t
............. "'rough  .......
l,"on ""''I. cleared of op,,onon'' fhr t* ...............open their eyes nil mouths In
npprlal. ........................
All of the shove was more wonder.
I'm,,01 I 111,111 "'"W ........."T ' WU1"'"t II "bt II was 
> nnd wettest II,.hi ,,r
. ""'V1' T'" ground, Is,,
lug In I li.- condition It was. olToroi!
'hold whatever to the men 
carrying n, ball, snil it | entirely 
"" ""I credit or Woli
linn I 7y,r Mills ,l
make M 1 1 l'",y "l)ro ul)l 1,1. . tbo great  ........  
bucks [hey did.
During the first half, Maryland
red strong resist,rc T th
harglng Oi tho Toch backileld, ami
 " this, coupled wlti, thoMeat punting of Captain ..Un..
Ill ewer, were enabled to hold Tocli
scoreless. In Brower Maryland has
a wonderful pIllyer, wo might havo
shown up much better had the Held
ofleied any kind of foothold. Ho
mm V01 l,oc>l" 'll,ovo "" other >  tho team. He can carry tho 
hall, and drop-kick, though not bayng any chancos to show his wares
III bat respect last Sat,inlay, and 
Pun with the best in the count,.; 
Without a doubt, ho is the best 
punier that lias appeared on Toch, 
or even In Pittsburgh tlilr year.
For Toch, tho usual list of stars 
were present. Weirman proved his 
ability to take Itobertson's placo on 
io team without impairing tho 
earns efficiency In the least bit by 
his hr lllant end runs, and faultless 
generalship. Sawyer roso to heights 
never before attained by himself hy 
his running of Interference, and end 
runs. Mills failed only once or twlco 
when called upon, and was perhaps 
at all times good for tho necessary 
few yards lo make first down. He 
s a most ready substitute for 
Brumbaugh, who while I the game 
dosplte his unhealed ankle was Just 
as good as ever, always finding 
hoes, and darting through them 
with unerring aim.
The first touchdown cnmo as a 
result, of tho Ilne-plunging of Mills, 
(Continued on Page Three.)
COSMOPOLITAN DANCE
DATE CHANGED
The Cosmopolitan dance of tho se
mester has been changed from Friday 
night, December 2, to night of Satur
day. December 3, In tho Union. Sev
eral surprises are In order for tho 
ovonlng. Bids can bo had from any 
of the members.
A social and dance was held hy tho 
members of the club at the Y. W. G.
A. Hospitality House on Fifth avenue 
last Wednesday following a short bus
iness meeting. Fifty members danced 
to the strains of music from tho Cos
mopolitan Orchestra.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1921
ofarfatt
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of tbo Student Activities Board.
Entered In the Postdfflco of Pittsburgh an second-class matter.
FREDERICK J. KNOWLES ........................................................ Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Hazel 1)31)8
WILLIAM R. MILLS ............................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
VIC. II. STROMQUIST ............................................................ Managing Editor
TelephonesSchenley 1)180 or Jlllund 858
HELEN V. LEWIS..................................................................... Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9079
L. J. WHITEHEAD ................................................................. Associate EditorTelephoneSchenley 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND......................'    ............................ N(JWB MtorTelophonoSchenley 9070 
H J'1 SIMPSON........................................................................... Athletic Editor
 TelephoneSchenley 9070 ,, vwnni ....................................................... Photographer
mA ,ma,u....................... ........................................ Exchange EditorO. A. D1CKMAN .......................................................................................................
inruONNlSMANN .......................... AdvurtlHi,,,; Managor
TolophonoSchenloy 9211 
E. I, vbfl .................................................................. Clnraliitlon Manager
nnnnnnnnnnnnnnnF drrdTGddd,t ,yydyT,pTy
' niuilvB Bokuo, M. Sclm.nachor, H. F. Dlotor, A. Lttbln, Vln.;o.iL Boy, 
p C MmK.iS I. It. iMuwlte, II. II. Wllnmi, K. u McKoo, W. 3. Bolton,i IFimK; V. T. pholpo, a J. Mttust, U. P. Hay, J. A. DourfMrty, M. B,
Wownoa/W. <. Sullivan, II. W. Browull, B. W. Duggan, O. M. Lundy, F. C.
Smith._________________________________________________________________________________
 IJU8INBSS ASSISTANTS
J. M. Cooper____________________________B- Sowers_________W. B. Cunningham
The Editor-In-Chief 1 responsible for the policy of this paper; tho
M an aging Editor for tbo make !>________________________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest. If signed, 
signature will bo withhold if desired. All nows Items must bo in tho student 
post olllco before 4:30 Friday.______________________________________________________
Tartan OlllcoRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Olllce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 12:30; Wednesday, 12 Lo 1 _______________
THANKSGIVING
Sometimes wc wonclcr il! people, who seem so busy with daily 
events and who are so engrossed in personal allairs, ever stop to 
think or realize that they have many tilings for which they should 
be thankl!uI. We, ol! Carnegie Tech, perhaps a good many oil us, have 
not hesitated long enough to realize the many advantages for which 
we should be thankful.
Tomorrow, Thanksgiving Day, to many of us has but one mean
ingturkey and a holiday. This should not be our attitude, because 
we havo many things to be thankful for and tomorrow each one of 
us should in some way express our thanks to God for the many good 
things He has seen lit to bestow upon us.
Let us be thankful that we have the opportunity to be considered 
a part of the present day; let us be thankful, as Americans, that 
we arc not Buffering the hardships of the Russians and Armenians. 
Lot us be thankful for the Washington conference and pray that it 
may avert future wars, but, of all things, as college students^ let 
us bo thankful that wc are able to attend school. When we consider 
the small percentage of the young men of the country who arc able 
to go beyond high school, we begin to realize what an advantage we 
have. Let us be thankful for this and then let us bo thankful that 
there are such schools as Carnegie Tech.
Let us have a conference with ourselves, and thoughtfully go 
over the favors wo have had in the past and the advantages we hold 
at present, then, let us express our thanks in a true, sincere manner. 
It will bring to us a deeper realization of the life we live and,our 
part in Clod's great creation and, incidentally, make better men and 
women of all of us.
THE SONG CONTEST IS BACK AGAIN
We are glad to note that the Bong Committee is back on the 
^ job. The reason ior not closing the contest last year is given by the 
Miumtteo, as ,a i'Jack ol! suliciont material for a complete book. 
The Song Committoo intends to prolong tho contest until February 
1st, hoping that moro songs will bo entered.
Tho difficulty, as it appears, is that tho student body is not 
interested in whethor wo havo songs or not. That Carnegie Tech 
needs songs is very apparent whon you hoar On Wisconsin" at the 
football games, Several other schools sing their AJma Mater to the 
same tune that wo do, Carnegie Tech needs songs badly and tlio 
only way that Carnegie Toch will havo songs is for Carnegie Toch 
men and women to write them.
The committoo offers an incentive in tho way of prizes that aro 
worthwhile but tho big incentive behind tho man should be his love 
for his Alma Mater. That you liavo dono something for your .Alma 
Mater should ho your greatest pride and, now that there is a chance 
to contributo something to your Alma Mater, do not overlook it; do 
your utmost to make tho Carnegie Tech Song Book a sue,cess.
on Wood lawn avenue gave a dance 
last Friday1 evening at the Woodlawn 
Hlall. Evo Hughes' orchestra fu 
nlshod tho music l'or about twontvIIvo couples. Punch and waters 
wore nerved' during tho evening,
THE OTHER FELLOW
WlllflNG WILLIAMS
M. M. ASSEMBLY
At assembly laid; week, Margaret 
Morrison girls had the honor of 
listening to Mr Williams. It 1 at) 
unusual thing to be able lo hear Lin 
industrial problem discussed' l'rom 
the laboring aide of tho fence.
Assured by all his friends LliaL 
such an idea was preposterous, that 
he would bo recognized the 11 rat 
time he sought employment, ho nev
ertheless escaped detection through 
out the time ho worked in tho 
mines. Tho unquestioning accept
ance oi his idea was, indeed, as 
Mr. Williams said at tiihes, rather 
humiliating. In France, where he 
worlfed among the mines, he was 
always taken for a Pole.
Tho attitude of the miner toward 
the man who works on top of the 
ground is a surprise. The man who 
digs and shovels and picks all day 
in a mine considers himself much 
luckier than those who are con
stantly exposed to inclement 
weather. It is his choice to work 
whore the temperature is always 
the same, in spite of the fact that 
he is always in danger of being 
smothered or 'crushed beneath a few 
tons of coal.
Alius keep goln sos the airs in 
yer face, is the advice of tho min
ers, and tho rulo thoy follow if ovor 
in danger. With not quite such a 
litoral moaning, it might apply very 
well to their employers.
Whiting Williams thinks that there 
will never bo ind ust.rlal peace until 
employers and omployos understand 
ono another. 'Certainly thoro is a 
groat deal to admire In tho strong 
enduring men who, generation aft or 
generation, prefer to work with 
plolc and shovel, rather than bo 
constantly under tho eyes of a boss.
TEA AT PRACTICE HOUSE
The Practice House group receiv
ed tho .Senior and Sophomore 1-1 
E.s, Friday afternoon at tea in tho 
Practice House. Miss Helene Pape 
and Miss Beulah Hatch. Guardian 
Angels of the House, also received 
the girls and every one had a most 
enjoyable time.
COMMENTS
GETTING BY"
A fault which Is all too common 
among college students a well as 
among others and which Is insidious 
in its nature, is the desire to "get 
by" and nothing more.
A common form of conversation on 
the campus Is tho putting to an indi
vidual tho question us to how he Is 
progressing ulong a certain line, and 
tho answer that he Is getting by 
and that that Is all he is interested 
In, anyway. Particularly does this 
apply to the passing of scholastic 
courses. An alarming large number 
of students are entirely serene and 
perfectly satisfied If they are receiv
ing a mark which Is barely passing 
and which enables them to put up an 
appearance of respectability as far 
as their school work is concerned.
Habits formed In college are not 
euslly shaken off In after life, and if 
there Is any ono thing which dooms 
one to defeat in the business and 
professional world It Is satisfaction 
with merely getting by."  Dally 
Texan,
THE RAZZ
Razz is the official undergraduate 
nonconformistrecanter. If a Fresh
man Is different, razz him. If he has 
too much to say, razz him. If ho 
doesnt show any spirit, razz him. If 
he hasnt any brains, razz him. If 
he has more than he knows what to 
do with, razz him. If in any particu
lar he Is not a regulation college man
whatever that israzz him.
Without a doubt, the razz is a 
great bump-reducer. Well-timed and 
applied with moderation, it lias kept 
many a mans head inside his hat, 
and taught him to take a full course 
of lessons from the campus masters 
before he tooted his horn in public. 
It has made the mightiest and the 
lowliest watch their step alike.
But it can be overdone.
It sC a serious question whether it 
Is either necessary or fair to wreck 
a mans college career because he 
lacks the faculty of getting on to the 
ropes with average speed. Whatever 
may bo the doubt In anybodys mind 
as to whether he deserves the treat
ment duo to an Intelligent man, he 
certainly deserves the treatment due 
from intelligent menwhich Is some
thing worth thinking about. And cer
tainly no man deserves loss ridicule 
and more help than the chap who 
seems to tho rest of us to bo a long 
distance in tho rear, and whose con
tinued presence in college is a mat
ter for wonderment as to how he does 
It. That ho does it is the chief fac^;. 
That he ban tho ability to keep up 
in his claim work should bo enough to 
commend him at least to the toler
ance of tho campus character who 
boasts that ho can sail on a calm C 
without cracking a book; and as for 
the rest of us, wo know or should 
know that It Is not our province to 
render any follow student's task hard
er than It Is.Colgate Maroon.
How many men and women of tho 
University do you know intimately? 
How many are thoro with whom you 
havo a speaking acquaintance? Do 
you know tho name of tho now stu
dent who sits on your left in Philoso
phy and on your right in English? 
Are thoy different, retiring persons 
who cant take tho initiative in get
ting acquainted? Are you helping 
them to find that warm human inter
est which each craves?
Have you ever stopped to consider 
that possibily some individuals are so 
lonely that they are morbidly sensi
tive to such a degree that they keep 
back fearing they will not be wel
come? And yet, have you noticed 
how their faces lighted up with pleas
ure when you greeted them cordial
ly?
Although a man is strong willed, 
there is nothing that will weaken or 
make a wanderer of him sooner, than 
to have his associates shun and for
get to make him one of their number.
Instoad of continuing to make mer
ry within your own gay circle of 
friends with the exclusion of strang
ers, draw tho other follow in.Wash
ington Daily.
DANCE AT WOODLAWN HALL
The girls from three of the houses
THE POET LAUREATE SPEAKS
Mary owned a little lamp,
It was well trained, no doubt,
For every tlmo lior "stoady" called 
Itor little lamp wont out.
Tan and Cardinal.
NOT SO GOOD
Swoot Young Thing  You'ro tho 
ilrstIvo never hugged or kissod a 
man before.
Bashful LlzzardI believe you. If 
you had any experience youd havo 
kept that powder off my lapol.Town 
Topics, Now York.
SARCASM
Dad (sternly)Where wore you last 
night?
SonOh. just riding around with 
some of the boys.
Well, tell em not to leave their 
hairpins in the car.Texas Scalper.
ROAMINS
Being, for tho early week-end at 
least, a victim of the elements com
mon to tho home of Jupiter Pluvius 
known to people over in the U. S. as 
Pittsburgh/the "Wanderlust com
mon to Roamer was appeased by an 
armchair, flresldo and tho inevitable 
Puppet. One wonders why the re
lief from the run of common and socalled funny magazines, college and 
otherwise, cornea so seldom. A publi
cation replete with the cuts and ma
terial characteristic of Puppet makes 
one feel that the only original people 
of this old planet are to be found at 
Tech.
To be specific Ill just bet you 
couldn't resist the temptation to send 
your girl a copy special delivery es
pecially after that cut of Larrys. 
Maybe you thought youd be devlish, 
just for once or that perhaps youd 
make her feel lonesome, but anyhow 
all special stamps were sold out when 
I tried to get mine.
Then theres that new song. Sister 
will surely have to tako an extra mu
sic lesson this week so she can play 
it for you Xmas time. In all serious
ness, lets hope the song has come to 
stay; Tech Is not so crowded with 
song that it has not room for an
other and there is no reason why it 
should not take the same place at 
Tech that Old Lord Jeffry holds at 
Amherst.
Geclc" as usual, comes in for a bit 
of prominence in this issue and 
Roamer suggests that said person 
tako note and reform otherwise the 
services of the Rev. Roach Stratton 
will bo required. Some of them 
jokes surely must have bln put in by 
the printer for none of the nice boys 
on the staff would conceive of such 
things. But all told, I guess we need 
our Puppet pretty badly. Its con
ceded by outsiders the best college 
wit in existence and roaming through 
its pages is a good substitute for 
roaming in search of lions.
ROAMER.
THAT LITTLE HAND
That little hand!
I hold it firm in mine 
And scan its outlines line.
My eyes expand,
And grow with love intense and 
strong;
I gaze upon it fond and long 
That little hand!
That little hand!
It is oG smooth, so pure and white, 
And covered oer with diamonds 
quite,
In beauty grand.
Oh, how I love it! See me press 
It to my lips in fond caress,
That little hand!
That little hand!
There are no others fair as you!
T lay you down, and gladly, too,
With manner bland.
It was a diamond flush and straight! 
Soon may I hold its charming mate! 
That little hand!
EXCHANGES
I----------------------------------------------------------
Men and women must now sit apart 
at the Northwestern University foot
ball games. The coaches are disap
pointed with the brand of cheering 
turned out at the games, and the.* 
blame It on the fact that the men and 
girls sit together on the grandstand 
and forget to cheer.
We once knew a girl who was so 
modest she couldnt even do improper 
fractions.
A novel fire alarm system has been 
installed in the Physics Department 
at Stevens Tech which depends upon 
the principle of the expansion of air 
when heated. The apparatus consists 
of a copper capillary tube which sud
denly receives heat from an outside 
source. The tube contains nothing 
but air and the pressure caused by 
its expansion is sullicient to close an 
electric circuit and ring an alarm. If 
there Is no immediate response to 
this first summons, the apparatus 
then automatically sends an alarm to 
the city fire department. The instru
ment is very sensitive to sudden 
changes in temperature, the alarm re
sponding in about sixteen seconds at 
the test.
The Scottish bag-pipe players were 
breaking the atmosphere into thou
sands of fragments with their instru
ments.
Why do those pipers keep walk
ing up and down as they play? 
asked one stranger of another.
I dont know, was the peevish an
swer, "unless it makes them harder 
to hit.
Love and porous plaster, son, 
Are very much alike,
Its simple getting into one, 
But getting outGood-night!
IT PAYS TO ADVERTISE
To find out how closely and pains
takingly his paper is read, an editor 
has to commit an occasional error. A 
paper might boost for 999 years and 
never hear a word of commendation, 
but when a slight error is made, a 
howl is at once raised. The people 
who say they do not read the papers 
are just plain liars.Jackson (Ga.) 
Progress.
HOWDY FOLKSI
"It sure is good to see the boys 
back again! cried the Oldest Inhab
itant as he swapped handshakes. "It 
sure is good to see the boys back 
again chuckled the Bursar as he 
jammed another stack of greenbacks 
into the safe. "It sure is good to 
see the boys back again philoso
phized the professor as he cashed 
his September pay check. It sure is 
good to see tho boys back again! 
remarked the Amsterdam Avenue 
storekeeper as lie jacked his prices 
up fifty per cent. "It sure is good to 
see the boys back again! said the 
flapper happily, as she shook the 
moth balls out of her book.Colum
bus Spectator.
^VARIETIES OF DRAMATIC
EXPERIENCE AT FINE AH I a
At ii performance in tho Fine, Arts 
Theater tho critic is novor an Inno
cent bystander; his very presence Is 
adequate evidence of Ills guilt. For, 
although one 1 apt to forget it, the 
function of tho Department, of Drama 
is not to aimiHo, Instruct, or enlighten 
Its critics, but to glvo Its students op
portunities to produce and act plays. 
The audlenco and Its judgments are 
purely incidental and In a measure 
Irrelevant. Tlioso sol f-ov Id out: propo
sitions are too easily forgotton by 
audlonces and producers alike.
A produolon that is valuable to 
the students and worthless to the au
dience Is eminently more justifiable 
than ono from which tlio students 
get little and tho audience gets what 
it wants, which is usually what is 
very bad. Tlve Department of Drama 
is not a public charity; it is a train
ing school not merely for artists, but 
for educated artists.
These considerations arise in the 
mind of the guilty critic when he pon
ders the values incident to the produc
tion by the Night ' School class of 
"King Rene's Daughter, which found 
first place last week in a program of 
one-act plays. From the consuming 
critics point of view this gem of 
1845 is one of the most tiresome 
plays he has ever witnessed. It is 
sluggish, dull and pretentious, and in 
its English version is an historical 
curiosity exhibiting skilfully the worst 
features of nineteenth century roman
ticism. From the students point of 
view (the only significant point of 
view), thie technical problems involv
ed are of great difficulty and interest. 
They must strive for effectiveness, 
above the handicap of the play itself, 
and that effectiveness must be se
cured by assuming a guise and a man
ner of speech most remote from cur
rent life.
The masquerading was not alto
gether successful; tho ancient cos
tumes soomed particularly shabby 
and ill-fitting,' and they woro not 
worn with grace and oaso. Neither 
was tho oloquont declamatory man
ner which the play cries out for, reg
ularly caught. The most evident suc
cesses woro Mi88 Duff and Mr. Gularski, though Mr. Bato and Mr. 
FiisohoijB contributed effective' small
er characterization.
The other plays of the evening woro 
so familiar as not to require detailed 
comment. Tho total effect might 
have boon happier if tho delightful 
trifle, Lovo, tho Locksmith, had 
been the filling of the substantial 
sandwich rather than tho enlivening 
demi-tasse. Mr. Kennedys play is as 
deftly phrased and rimed, and as 
amusing as ever; it is also as fragile 
in substance and form.
"The Poem of David. which of
fers Mr. Lubin ono of his favorite 
roles, is still impressive though the 
text needs severe cutting. Miss
SCIENCE-INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
Moving -pictures of ono of the 
largest hydrooloctrlc power systems 
ever constructed, wore Bliown to the 
combined assembly of Science and 
Industries students last Wednesday 
liopa, Tho pictures also included 
slides and descrLptlvo matter, Tho 
exhibition was given through the 
courtesy of SLono; and Webster, Inc., 
an engineering concern of Boston, 
Mass. Mr. Albert A. Northrop ol 
that firm, explained the whole pro
cess and tho principles of construc
tion involved' in the plant and its 
adjuncts.
This plant was erected recently at 
a point high up in' the mountains 
about 175 miles, northeast of San 
Francisco. The ^.Feather river, a 
rushing mountain stream was ob
structed with a dam so as to flood 
fifteen million acres of plateau land, 
tliis reserve being necessary to 
care for unevenness, in the water 
supply due to fresliets, freezes, etc. 
Two mountains were tunneled to-car
ry the water at a high level to a 
point at which a sudden fall of 
nearlyv two thousand feet could be 
had. As the mountains were com
posed of a porus lava rock, the tun
neling resented severe problems in 
drainage. The pictures showed very 
clearly step by step each place in 
the construction work, down in the 
tunnels, erecting the power house, 
housing accommodations, power 
lines, and railway, incline, and cable
way transportation facilities. The 
power plant develops thirty thou
sand horsepower, which is sent over 
alumninum wires to San Francisco 
under a. pressure of one hundred and 
sixty-five thousand volts. The vast 
store of water held in reserve w 
generate as much horsepower as
could bo obtained from coal filled 
in cars of a ti'ain fifty miles long.
This exhibition was great appre
ciated, as it gave the students a 
rare opportunity to realize tho prac
tical problems of big engineering 
work, and aside from this, was a 
highly interef tlng picture of the type 
wo- seldom see.
MRS. ALEXANDER VISITS
ART DEPARTMENT
Your personal goods such as sta
tionery with monograms, engraved or 
embossed calling cards, school or 
fraternity Jewelry, fountains pens and 
pencils can be gotten at Singers, 
Jenkins arcade.Adv.
Shadyside Barber Shop
JOS. E. KRUMM, Prop. 
5522 WALNUT STREET
r2MSM5JS/3M3JSMSMSM5MS/SMS/SMSMSl 
 BELLE BROTHERS S
The Service Drug Store.
5805 FORBES STREET 
Near Murray Avenue 
Prescriptions Our Specialty. 
Hazel 3615.
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARY :
PROMOTE
COMMUNITY
PROGRESS
Patronize
THE ORPHIUIYI THEATER
Forbes and Murray
 A New Show every day. ft
BELLEFIELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
"The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School.......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service.........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service........ 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits....................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
HARRY'S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniijniiiiiiniiiniuninniiuiiiin 
Tech Barber Shop 
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Ered Eargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged
CLEAN,
WHOLESOME
FOOD
Served at best prices
CIGARS CANDY
MANHATTAN 
RESTAURANT 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE
Try Our Special Plate 
Lunch40c 
A Students Restaurant 
, For the Students 
/ Reasonable Prices.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
So you graduated from a barber 
college? What is your college yell? 
"Cut his lip, cut his jaw, leave his 
face, raw, raw, raw.
ciNDERSONS
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
l!ll!IIII!lljlIlllllllIfill!III[l!ilillH
I Heal Place To Eat
SCHENLEY GARDEN 
DINING ROOM
TRY OUR SPECIAL PLATE DINNER30c
A. J. SCHWAMBORN, Proprietor
219 OAKLAND AVENUE
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET
(Below Forbes)
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Mrs. John W. Alexander, the wife 
of John W. Alexander, tlio greatest 
of interior decorators and mural 
paintershe painted the Memorial 
Hall murals as well as those of the 
state capitolgave an informal talk 
to tho Sophomores of Applied Arts 
and Margaret Morrison in the Decor
ation Department at Arts last Mon
day afternoon. Mrs. Alexander, who 
herself is quite a designer and inte
rior decorator, having a largo busi
ness in New York, is on a tour of the 
country to see and to give. She has 
had a wonderful opportunity to see 
the growth and application of design 
and from that point of view she spoke 
on the significance of design. She 
said that the big problem of the fu
ture is lightingindirect lighting is 
not yet effective or satisfactory. An
other problem will he to devise means 
of attractively displaying pictures in 
the homes. She mentioned the fact 
that of late she has found students 
disinclined to work on the foundation 
of the work theyre going to. do later 
in life. This feeling is wrong for we 
should never think anything drudgery 
which will lead to skill.
Mrs. Alexander spoke very highly 
of the Art Department of Tech aud 
complimented the students on having 
such fine facilities and opportunities, 
urging them to get the utmost out of 
them.
Cohen and Mr. Lazarus have inher
ited parts In this play, the latter evi
dently at short notlco. Ho brings a 
flavor and pungency to tho part 
which it had not shown before. Miss 
Cohen, looking very well, indeed, was, 
however, hardly as closo to tho role 
as was Miss Morrison last year. Mr. 
Paquin furnishes valuable and vigor
ous contrast; Miss McAuley In pathet
ic. but hardly Hebraic. To this re
viewer. Mr. Lubins acting of tho 
blind old Jewish poet is tho best 
character acting he has seen on this 
stage. In a most trying role, his fer
tility In gesture and intonation is in
exhaustible, and under export guid
ance ho creates power and intensity 
which mark liimj a distinct talent.
FOUND
Slide rule, ruling pen for compass, 
one glove. Cul< at Dean Tarbells 
Office. ITHE DIFFERENCE 
BLANK VERSE
Emil asked Clara 
To tako
A walk with' him 
And pick llowors,
But
Claras brother 
Came along,
And so
They picked flowers.
Buchnellian.
ADVISED
I want some advice on a love affair 
of mine.
"Well, shoot.
"Some time ago I became infatuat
ed with a beautiful girl and asked her.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year.
BELL PHONE
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
PILAR INCLINE
CITY OK BAHIA, BRAZIL
\ T5AHIA is divided into an Upper and 
a Lower City. One section is'on the 
top of a cliffthe other extends between the 
foot of the cliff and the waterfront.
Four Otis Electric Elevators in two large 
vertical towers and the Otis Incline Railway 
pictured here, carry the people and freight 
up and down the cliff. The Incline Railway 
marry y< Js built at an angle of 40 degrees; there arc 
/orld.T, two cars working alternately, each with a
------------capacity of 20 people nnjl 1 500 pounds
STR freight and the trip is made in 90 sedonds.
 . Otis engineering has successfully linked these 
sent-minded i two parts of Ualiia. This achievement, big 
i a brother inn. I: is but <':< significant detail of thejvl worl^-wide serviee'givcu by Otis.
StudentNo, sir, \ 
eating the course.
Absent-minded Pro.
tn innmr T,, w i, *  , * , ,ar>' resemblance, thoiTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
^eg! extraordinary. Vo. D- w
What would you do? {
Id break it off.Chicago PhoeniX'
Most of tic famous' structures of the world 
are equipped with Otis Elevators.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1921THE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
HARRIERS TAKE THIRD 
PLACE IN A. A. U. MEET
Kelley First Tech Man to FinishCapt. Miller and Dykeman Out on Account of InjuriesN. Y. A. C. First 
in Team ScoringCourse Shortened One 
Mile Because of Mud
GREENLAW ELECTED CAPTAIN AT BANQUET
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
THE TARTAN ATHLETIC POLICY
The athletic sheet of the Tartan has changed hands. It is up to the 
new editor to keep up the good work, and this can only bo done through 
earnest and loyal effort on his part. He is confronted with a task that calls 
for a large amount of tact and thought in the choice of what he -writes. 
His words and ideas are always subject to criticism, just as tho words and 
ideas of anyone else, and it therefore behooves him to be careful of what, he 
says, and when he has said it, let that only BE at the close of a period of 
thorough and careful analysis. It is important that he meet the question fair 
and square, and that he never dodge issues. It is important that he give the 
facts, and the true report. So, the policy shall be:
As to editorial commentsthis column will criticize if it thinks it can, 
by so doing, aid Carnegie Tech. In doing this it recognizes that to criticize 
destructively is one thing, and to criticize constructively is still another, and 
that the former has no place in this column, while the latter has. But, even 
when the latter is indulged in. it will BE only after a clear insight has 
been acquired ou the subject, and THEN only printed after consultation.
As to newsby the time the Tartan appears upon the campus, the sport
ing news is perhaps always stale. Every student has learned the result of 
all athletic contests. So has the general public, and the alumni also. That 
being the case, the policy of this sheet is not so much to give the news as 
to comment. The student has brought himself to look upon the Tartan not 
a medium of news, but as a medium in which the linal and true and 
corrected report can be had.
The whole opinion an outsider gets of Carnegie Tech is hinged upon 
how the official student publication treats our athletic contests. To alibi, 
to give excuses, to praise only our own team, to touch upon only the bril
liance of our own team playall of these give out to the general public 
the idea that we, at Tech are not good sports. On the other hand, to give 
opponents full credit for whatever good work they did, to admit our defeat, 
if defeated we were, can no doubt work but to the good of Carnegie Tech. 
Fail* play can be practiced on the sport sheet, as well as ou the field, and it 
is one of the policies of this sheet to give fair play to Tech and opponents 
alike.
As to the gathering of the newsin recognition of tho old adage: 
Everybody to his own trade, only experts will cover the various events. 
One who has played considerable basket ball will cover basket ball. One 
who knows tennis will cover tennis. And so on all the way through. This 
necessitates a large staff, and such is not the case at the present. There
fore, the occasion is taken now to Issue a call for a man who knows basket 
ball; for a man who knows track; for a man who knows football, baseball, 
cross-country, tennis, rifle, hockey, boxing and wrestling. The staff is incom
plete now, so each will be given a chance to show what he has to offer.
THE FOOTBALL SMOKER
Space is so limited, and the things that might be said so numerous, con
cerning the Varsity Clan banquet and the football smoker last Saturday 
night, that comment in this column can only be made upon the fine spirit 
shown. It was the spirit that makes Carnegie Tech the school of ALL 
schools. It was a spirit that will make every one of us love and revere 
TECH forever. No one can help but realize what such a spirit as that can 
accomplish if carried on in the future. Traditions make a school, but after 
all is said and done, it is the spirit at the very bottom of it all, for it is 
spirit that makes a tradition. A spirit like that shown last Saturday night 
AS A TRADITION! What more would any school desire?
The whole plea now is to l<;eep that spirit updont lot it lug! Kingdoms 
may fall, and kingdoms may rise,.but Carnegie Tech will flourish forevermore, for nothing can daunt a good spirit. Let us carry that spirit on to 
the basket ball games, baseball games, tennis matches, and track meets! 
If we do, our good work will not stop with the end of the football season.
THE FOOTBALL LETTER MEN
As a reward for their faithful and lucrative service on tho gridiron 
during the past football season, the following men were awarded tho Car
negie Tech C: Irwin (captain), Brumbaugh, Rosenbiooin, Sprinkle, An
derson (captain-elect), Comfort, I-Iable, Mills, Pottor, Sawyer, Wlerman, 
Godden, Henderson, Newman, Robertson, Lewis, Taylor, Zelt and Blosch 
(manager).
Tho abovo list is far from rewarding every deserving man, hut a divi
sion line must be made somewhere, and this has been done through tho 
application of a new ruling. It is regrettable that such man as Alexander, 
Ave, Griffin, Griggs, Pittman, Smith. Szold, Temmel and White failed to 
meet these requirements, for they were out on the Hold overy afternoon just 
as late as any one, but, it is expected that armed with the experience gained 
this season they will bo more successful next year.
AMENDMENTS AND CHANGES IN THE CONSTITUTION OF THE 
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
Requirements for granting of football letters
To any member of the varsity football squad, playing In one-half 
the total number of quarters (any part of a quarter shall constitute a 
full quarter) of the games for the season or playing in one-half of the 
quarters of the two most Important games of the Beacon, which games 
are to be designated by the Athletic Council before tho end of the sea
son, a C shall be awarded by the Athletic Council. The head coach of 
the football team may recommend for meritorious service n letter to any 
members of the varsity football squad not to exceed three In number, 
which recommendations shall be considered and passed upon by the 
Athletic Council, these members, however, having been granted a letter 
in such manner not to participate In the election of the football captain 
for the ensuing year.
New sweater regulations
A sweater shall be awarded In each major sport with the first and 
third letters won, when second or subsequent letters are earned in the 
same sport, recognition for same to be plaid band or bar, for each ad
ditional letter to be worn upon the left arm of the letter sweater. Any 
individual winning three letters in the same sport shnll receive appro
priate insignia in his senior year, such Insignia to be selected and 
indicated by the Athletic Council.
With the first minor letter awarded to a competitor, a gray (white 
for tennis) coat jersey with minor Insignia shall be. given, the second 
letter earned in the same sport to entitle the c'ompctitor to the plaid 
band or bar to be worn on the left arm of the jersey, the third letter 
in the same sport to be awarded with the regulation V neck grey 
sweater except in tennis, which sweater will be white.
Track letters; Paragraph C of Section. 5, Article VIII, to read:
A letter shall be awarded to a competitor scoring an average of 
three points per dual meet for the total season, the minimum require
ment to be 15 points. In the case of Intercolleglatc meets with five 
places counting, such points to be counted in the seasons total.
Weve Fitted 
Feet For 
Over 40 
Years.
You always look around" 
when new season brings now 
garments, and correct shoes aro 
quite as Important.
So please accept our Invitation 
to stop In and see the now shoe 
styles for Fallnever were they 
more beautiful, or more varied.
Now Fall Shoes 
now In stock.
P. Ludebuehl v Son
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
[j
I SKA TING TIME
is hero. There's only ono place to skato ;in Pittsburghbut; its tlio 
=: best ice surface in tlio world -
1 DUQUESNE GARDEN
After classes, trot over lo Oaitf Street mid yet a sleale on. Party reservations on re*
finest. Special student rato a:l!tor 3i30 daily.
AIN'T IT GRANDI
Competing in their last meet of the 
season, the Plaid harriers captured 
third place in the National A. A. U. 
championships on Saturday. The 
team was minus the services of two 
of its best men, Captain Miller and 
Dykeman. With these men in, Tech 
could have made a strong bid for 
first honors. As it was Kelley for 
'Tech finished fourth, beating out such 
men as Panghey, Joe Organ, Hays 
and other good runners.
The Tartan runners made the fol
lowing places: Kelley, fourth;
Covett, fourteenth; Tubbs, sixteenth; 
Greenlaw, twentieth; Gotham, twentyPLEBE BUCKS
REGULATION COMMITTEE
At the Plebe trial last Thursday 
one Plebe attempted to buck the de
cision of the Plebe Regulation Com
mittee. He ^vas. sentenced to wear 
the bird-cage for a period of one 
week and he very meekly submitted 
to the placing of the cage on his 
head. But as soon as he was out
side the door of Room 60 off went 
the bird cage and he threw it down 
the hall. It happened that a Soph 
was out in the hall and saw him 
take French leave of his ornament 
and the poor Plebe was immediately 
hustled back before the Trial Com
mittee. When asked what lie meant 
by his actions the Plebe said: I
refuse to wear that bird cage and 
I am not going to let any bunch of 
fellows make a fool of me. I dont 
mind working but I won't wear that 
cage. He was immediately ordered 
from, the room and told that he would 
get something that he can't take off 
and it is reported, but not officially, 
that Mr. Plebe is due for a hair cut 
and face decorations at assembly. 
He was up for wearing gray socks 
and a civilian hat on the campus. 
He pleaded guilty to both charges 
saying that he wore the civilian hat 
so that he could sell -Puppets, being 
under the impression, so he said, 
that lie could not sell Puppets to 
the upperclassmen if he had his 
Plebe cap on.
Several Plebes were up for not 
having turned in their statements 
showing that they had completed 
the work sentences which they had 
iteceived at previous trials. One 
Plebe had gone over to the field the; 
morning of the Tech-W. & J. game 
exepecting to find some one there 
and since there was no one to re
ceive him he decided to not risk 
the same recaption again and he 
never went back. His sentence was 
doubled.
Another Plebe claimed that he 
has been using Room 61 ever since 
school started and that he did not 
know that Room 61 was Room 61. 
It is understood that lie is now en
tering upon a literary career since 
he has obtained work in both The 
Tartan and - Thistle offices wrapping 
Tartans to be sent to the alumni 
and janitor of the Thistle office.
Several other Plbes were up for 
minor offences and were either giv
en light Sentences or were dis
charged on good behavior.
Sawyer again starred. This lad is 
destined to become, one. of Techs 
most brilliant luminaries in the next 
three years, for he has many more 
years at Tech in front of himthat is 
to say if he is like the rest of us. If 
the lad would only learn how to punt, 
he -wou^d be a triple-threat man, be
cause he can hurl a forward pass, hit 
the line hard, run the ends, and act as 
a shock-absorber for the man carry
ing the ballcan do all these now!
Captain Irwin, ex-Captain Godden 
and Skitch Henderson played the 
last game of their college football 
careers last Saturday. Wonder what 
Tech will do without these stars next 
year? .They will be missed muchly. 
But we still have a chance to gaze 
upon the Red dome-because he will 
more than likely shine on the dia
mond and the ice, while Irwin will 
again don the catchers mit.
third; McKelvey, twenty-fifth; Men
denhall, twenty-eighth; Gottwals, 
thirty-third. The best time made by 
Johnson of the Edgar Thomson Steel 
Works was 24:23 4-5.
The squad attended the Varsity 
Clan banquet Saturday evening. At 
this time Greenlaw was elected cap
tain for next season. Greenlaw is a 
hard worker and a consistent runner. 
He is not a star, but is one of these 
men that can always be depended 
upon to come through with a good 
place in any race. He will make a 
fine leader for Techs star team in 
1922.
TECH WINS LAST GAME
(Continued From Page One) 
and Sawyer, and the twenty yard
run of Weirman. The second touch
down was the result of continual
line bucks by Mills, who finally car
ried the ball over. The final touch
down was scored by Irwin, as he re
covered a iumble by Lewis, after 
Lewis; had plunged over right guard 
for seven yards. After each touch
down, Comfort kicked goal. The 
lineupr.
Tech21, Maryland0.
Potter ...............L. E................ Young
Comfort ............L T................ Nisbet
Henderson ....L. G................ Moore
Irwin ...................C................... Bailey
Rpsenbloom ...R. G___ M. Brewer
Sprinkle ...........R., T............... Burger
Godden................R. E........... Branner
Weirman ...........Q................. Semler
Sawyer .............L. H................... Pugli
Anderson ........R. EL;____ B. Brewer
Brumbaugh ........F............. McQuade
Score by periods:
Tech ...........................0 0 14 724
Maryland ...................0 0 0 0* 0
Substitutions: Tech 1 Mills for
Brumbaugh, Lewis for Sawyer, Pitt-, 
man for Weirman, Hable' for Potter, 
Newman for Godden, Zelt for Com
fort.
MarylandLewis for Young, Clark 
for Burger, Young for Lewis, Alex
ander for M. Brewer, Pagnucci for 
McQuade.
TouchdownsWef.Jrman, Mills Ir
win.
Goals from touchdownsComfort
ReferenceMcFarland, W. & J. 
UmpireVery, Penn State. Head: 
linesmanThompson, Georgetown.
ANDERSON NEW CAPTAIN
(Continued From Pago One.) 
Charlie Blesch presented tho football 
used in the first quarter of the Mary
land game to the newly elected cap
tain of next years team. James L. 
Anderson was the recipient of this 
honor, and responded with a short 
speech of gratification and praise for 
Captain Al Irwin of tills years 
successful team.
Alabam Newman then essayed to 
please the gang with a few songs 
one to be exact. His effort was ap
preciated as shown by the absence 
of buns.
The.banquet was then turned,over 
to tho speakers of the evening, who 
responded in good talks by Wally 
Steffen, Lanahan and Waddell.
Just as Wally Steffen started his 
talk a furore' was created when a mes
senger broke into the dining hall 
with a letter to Mr. Walter P. Stef
fen. This turned out to be a gift of 
$1,500 from the Athletic Council, as 
a bonus, and meager reward and show 
of appreciation for his wonderful 
work here at Tech.
. At the end of the program an
nouncement was made of the Varsity 
Clan elections as follows:
PresidentA. C. Comery.
First Vice PresidentH. G. Nichol.
Second Vice President  Frank 
Crawford.
Third Vice PresidentWm. Hill.
Representative to Athletic Council 
D. A. Casey.
Secretary and TreasurerFrank H. 
Haaren.
OliveWhat's an optimist?
EleanorA guy who cuts a dance 
with a Profs daughter and then ex
pects to pass the course.Brown Jug.
MEETINGS OF THE NEW
GYM COMMITTEE
(Continued From Page One.) 
Thor Engstrom, J. F. Laboon, L. H. 
Lee.
This committee held a meeting on 
November 14 and had as their guests 
Coach Wally Steffens, Dr.' Marks and 
Assistant Coach Waddel. These men 
gave talks and told the committee 
what they thought the gym should in
clude. The meeting was then thrown 
open to general discussion at which 
time the members asked the guests 
numerous questions. The guests were 
then excused and a general discussion 
followed at which time it was decided 
to subdivide this committee into two 
committees and let each one study its' 
respective problem of location of gym 
and the activities to be included in 
the gym. The committees are as fol
low's :
Location CommitteeW. Y. CoQken, 
J. F. Laboon, chairman; Edna Smith, 
Thor Engstrom, L. H. Lee, Carl Reid 
and Frank Haaren.
Activities CommitteeF. R. Cogs
well, Mrs. J. I. Johnston, Helen Stew
art, Paul Unzicker, S. G. Little, J. W. 
Batman and Frank Haaren, chairman.
These committees were instructed 
to meet and report to the general 
committee at the next meeting. The 
results of the general committee will 
be reported to the Executive Gym
nasium Committee as soon as possi
ble.
Eddie Lewis Is till galloping 
around the ends for many yards. ADd 
when it's not around the ends, 'tis 
through the line. And if its punting 
that is wanted, Eddie can do it. And 
did you notice who was calling sig
nals when Wlerman went out of the 
game last Saturday? 'Twas Eddie 
Lewis. Quite a versatile lad, eh?
I V
Y WORKERS HOLD BANQUET
(Continued From Page One.) 
the work in true earnestness.
Dean .Tarbell said that he had 
long hoped for such a movement 
here, stating\ that many other col
leges and persons unfamiliar with 
the student body here, held a mis
conceived opinion of the character 
of Tech men, and that the Y 
movement would' not only be direct
ly helpful on the campus, but would 
also give evidence to the outside of 
the high character of our men.
At the second banquet Mr. Paul 
Super of New York, connected the 
engineer with the spiritual and 
character training. In part he said: 
Seventy-five per cent of engineer
ing success is due to spiritual ai 
character training. Technical trai 
ing amounts to nothing without spir
itual training. The engineering stu
dent Is tho future leader nnd v/e 
must devote more time to the spir
itual and less time to tho material
istic part of education and thu 
avoid tho mistake that Germany 
made."
Bill' Pfoute contributed his cus
tomary "story or two and gave 
the workers some valuable hints per
taining to the campaign.
At both banquets Mr. P. S. Don
nell, a member of the electrical de
partment faculty outlined tho plan 
for membership enrollment and to 
him a great deal oi? credit will be 
due for the ulfcimatoj success of the 
movement. His efforts In this cam 
palgn are to be conlmended as are I 
his interests In the ntany other mat-1 
ters which affect ti('.e student and I 
his environment. 'I ;
"I)
RESERVES LOSE LAST
GAME 13 TO 0
Tho Tech Reserves finished their 
football schedule hist Saturday, los
ing to Wuynesburg College, Waynesburg, Pa., by a score of 13 to 0.
- The field was too muddy for a 
good contest, and the game was 
slowed up considerably on account 
of it. The Collegians made their 
two touchdowns in tho second quar
ter. The first was made after the 
Reserves had held their opponents 
on the two-yard line for four downs 
Tech then received the ball and 
punted from behind its goal lino, 
the punt was blockod and a Waynesburg man fell ou the ball behind 
the line, scoring a touclidown. Their 
second touchdown was made after 
a series of line plung-is from the 
center of the field.
The Reserves were unable to 
break up Waynesburgs interference. 
In the second half, however, the 
Skibos kept the pigskin on the op
ponents territory most of the time. 
Gee starred for Tech, on tho offensivfe, while Gilbert and Bright show
ed up to good advantage on the de
fensive. Lineup:
Waynesburg13.
Tech Reserves0.
Bartlett .............L. E................ Ilyde
Wright ..............L. T.......... Wilhelm
Asklin .........L.G............... Miller
Reardon ..............C...,____ Berryman
Minor .................R. G........... Ivalibich
Sundsterom ...R. T.............. Gilber
Biery .................R. E.............. Bright
McHenry Q.................. Ward
Cunningham ...L. H................... Goe
Tate ................R. H..........1___ Jones
Freeman ............F............... Schwab
Su bs titu t ionsW ay nos bu rg. Cam pbell for Cunningham, Cunningham 
for Campbell, Long for Biory, Silveus for Tate. TechWilliams for 
Miller, Thompson for Gilbert, Gilbert 
for Berryman, Mason for Schwab, 
Kuhn for Thompson, Gulhrio for 
Bright. Touchdowns  Berryman 
Tate. Goal from touchdownMc
Henry*. RoforoeBrown, Penn State 
Umpire 1Toy. Head linesman 
Sims.
Wierman was tho Wlorman of old 
last Saturday. Ills field gotioralshlp 
was without fault, rather it had many 
distinct qualities In its favor. Ills 
calling of a forward pass In tho first 
quarter was a neat bit of stratogy. It 
caught tho Maryland (layers ontlroly 
off their guard. But, luck was 
against IC-tho hall was slippery, and 
It didn't work.
RIFLE CLUB TOURNAMENTS
Beginning tho week after tho 
Thanksgiving recess tho Rifle Club 
will hold two tournaments, ono for 
prone and one for standing positions. 
This competition will bo open to all 
men in school except members of last 
years term.' Each competitor may 
enter in either or both tournaments. 
Entry lists are posted on bulletin 
boards where names may be entered. 
One gold ana ono silver metal will bo 
given the winners of each tourna
ment.
The rules to bo observed are:
1. Each man shall turn in one com
plete target per week for three con
secutive weeks.
2. The total score of the three 
targets will count.
3. The distance shall be 50 feet.
1. Any 22 caliber rifle may be used 
sights, any not containing glass.
5. N. R. A. standard 6 bull targets 
will be used.
The rifles, ta-Vgets aiul' ammulnition used will be furnished without 
charge by tho Rifle Club. Tho range 
is located ou tho fourth floor of the 
Arts Building over tho P. & I. De
partment, and will be open on Tues
day, Thursday and Friday of each 
week after-4:30 p. m.
The Rifle Club is running those 
tournaments in order to get a line on 
now team material for tho coming 
season and also to create more inter
est in rifle shooting at Tech. This 
will furnish an excellent opportunity 
for men Intending to try out for tho 
team. The outlook for this years 
team is very promising and there is 
no reason why Toch will not havo ono 
of the best teams in the country.
In the past week Lehigh has boon 
booked to add to Harvard, Yalo, 
Princeton, M. I. T. and Colgate, al
ready scheduled.
Say, Plebe, .1 ever wear blue socks 
under your putees in R. O. T. C. 
and got caught by tho Sophs. And 
two days after see your name up 
for trial right over tho sign May 
the good Lord havo mercy on your 
soul. You went to Room 60 and 
laid around In tho hall trying to 
keop up your spirit by kidding tho 
other unfortunates. But when ,you 
saw.the others coming out with sen
tences of wearing socks around their 
neck, or working 15 or 20 hours, 
or wearing a dress or birdcage? 
Say! Didnt tho day seeiu rani:. And 
when the Soph poked his head out 
and bawled your name your '...tees 
played Homo Sweet Home and you 
wondered1 why you were so darned 
unlucky. You restrained a hysteric
al desire to laugh and went n and 
saw all those solemn Seniors and 
those gloating Soplis and you only 
hoped they didnt cut your lnur.
And when the President, after 
hearing all the evidence including 
your unintelligible utterances and 
after a glimpse at your perspiring 
countenance, said: Well, Plebe,
youre discharged this time. Don't 
bo in here again.
Say, Plebe! Aint it a grand and 
glorious feeling?
And Cy Comfort hasnt missed 
goal yet! 1-Ie only missed ono last 
year, which makes it only ono cluinco 
missed since lie has been at Carnegie 
Tech. His total so far this season is 
31. Guess liell make it about 100 
for the season next year. Wouldn't 
bo a bit surprised if ho did.
PlebeWhat's the difference be
tween a stage parlor-scono and a real 
parlor scone?
SophOno starts by raising tho cur
tain and the other by lowering it. 
Exchange.
SCHENLEY HOTEL BALL ROOM 
THANKSGIVING NIGHT8:30 to 1 
FOOTBALL DANCEEarl Fullers Original College Band
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 26 
MARDI GRAS DANCE
Masks or Costumes Prohibited! 
Admission $2.50Tax Paid.
AUFHAMiER & EVANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
Every day MURADS art held 
higher in the estimation of the men who smoke them.
They are the standard of Taste.
They never disappointnever failnever change
They are 100% pure Turkish to
baccoof the finest varieties grown.
You are proud to smoke them 
in any companyon any occasion.
They arc the largest selling highgrade cigarette in the world.
The cigarette smokers of America DO prefer Quality to Quantity.
f0r Yourself!>
00025348005323000200015301000000020019020001005353480201530202020202000100005301005300020000025348
0001532300530000020002020202020000000101000000010153234801010200010201000100020002020202010100010201

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1921
PAID, $1,400-0UR GOAL, $2,50O-JOIN NOW-GET A MEMBER
DIRECTORY OF TECH CLANS
AKBONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, care Chelsea Club, 829 Bast 
Market Street.
BAJyj'JMOKiSSecretary, W. 11. Norman, 2110 Allendale Street! 
.BOSTONSecretary, Mary Wight, Harris 'Hall, Deaconess Boad. 
BUFFALOActive Member, W. II. Ricgcr, Sizer Forge Company.
CHICAGO..-Secretary, J. J. Kennedy, 3748 Wright-wood Avenue.
CINCINNATI--Active Member, Mary Zarobsky, ) I Bella Vista Place. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, Merten G. Kingsley, 17817 Cannon Avc. 
DETKOJ.TSecretary, H. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co. 
ERI13Secretary, H, A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Street.
HA11RISB U IlGPresident, Bitchie La wire, 20G Market 'Street. 
HABTFOBDSecretary, L. M. Bloch, 304- Garden Avenue. 
HUNTINGTONSecretary, 3. 3?. Do Young, 808 Second St., E. 
JOHNSTOWNSecretary, C. L. Carroll, 220 Vine Street. 
MONONGAIIELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 43.1 Riverside Drive. 
NORFOLK---Acting Secretary, W. H. Sands, Bank of Commerce 
Building.
PHILADELPHIAPresident, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company oil Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building. 
PITTSBURGHSecretary, 3. W. Batman. Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
ST. LOUISActive Member, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTONSecretary, W. II. Norman, Thirteenth Street, N.
W. j Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., Engineering Dept. 
YOUNGSTOWNPresident, F. C. Beetle, South High School.
D. Secretary, Claire Todd, 249 Redonda Road.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
ATTENTION ALUMNI
In order to establish a Thistle tile 
in the Alumni Office, vo would like 
to have -copies of Thistles from 
1000 to 1920. If you have an old 
Thistle which you can do without 
please forward it to the Alumni Of
fice without delay.
ALUMNI SMOKER
SPECIAL THANKSGIVING
DAY SERVICE
Tho annual Thanksgiving Day serv
ice of the Oakland and Bellefleld 
churches will ho hold at the Bollelleld 
Presbyterian church, Bollelleld and 
Fifth avenues, Thursday morning, No
vember 24, at 10:U0 oclock. Tho Rev.
Frederick C. Nau, pastor of the Grace 
Reformed church, will preach the 
aermon and the vested choir of tho 
Bellelleld Presbyterian church will 
sing special music, undor tho direc
tion of Organist Earl B. Collins.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
A smoker for alumni of the Col
lege of Arts, Science and Industries 
will bo held during the early part 
of December. The date will bo an
nounced In tho next issue of Tho
Tartan.
It will bo a great get-together 
and a varied program is being ar
ranged. Talk this xup among your 
friends and prepare for the best 
night of the year. The committee in 
charge of tho smoker is as follows: 
A. C. May, H. G. Nichol, F. I. Gas
ton, F. T. Floyd, Edward I-Iirsch,
L. T. Kelly, W. S. Rabonstein, J. B.
Ingham, W. H. Oakley, J. W. Bat
man.
Watch next weeks 
details.
Tartan for
HIGGINS LUMBER CO. PRIZES
The Higgins Lumber Company of 
this city has just awarded cash 
prizes to members of the Art De
partment at Arts for sets of ideas 
wli(,ch will interest their clients, and 
others interested in their product. 
Three Ideas, of a cartoon or humor
ous typo, were submitted by each 
person. The following were chosen 
as prize winners: First, Cooper,
^20; Becond. Elsaman, $10; third, 
Fisher,, if5; fourth, Hudson.
Everything forQUALITY
nothing for show
T
HATS OUR IDEA in making CAMELS the 
Quality Cigarette.
Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! Its 
the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes 
fresh and full flavored for your taste. Heavy paper out
sidesecure foil wrapping inside and the revenue stamp 
over the end to seal the package and keep it air-tight.
And note this! Theres nothing flashy about the Camel 
package. No extra wrappings that do not improve the 
smoke. Not a cent of needless expense that must come 
out of the quality of the tobacco.
Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on merit 
alone.
Because, men smoke Camels who want the taste and 
fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly blended. Men 
smoke Camels for Camels smooth, refreshing mildness 
and their freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.
Camels are made for men who think for themselves.
Camel
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Win.ton-S.lem, N. C.
\
CLAN NEWS
NEW YORK CLAN
The regular fall meeting of the 
New York Clan was held at Jans
sens I-Iofbrau, Broadway at Thir
tieth istreiefj, Thursday, November 
10. About 50 members were present: 
among whom were a great number, 
of the alumnus. Every alumnus 
was uccompanled by a lady, his 
v, ift; or sweetheart, who added to a 
most pleasant evening.
This first meeting is considered 
to be the annual autumn Get-to
gether and is not called As a busi
ness meeting. (A general welcome 
was given to all new members es
pecially the alumnae. The girls are 
taking a decided interest in the af
fairs of the Alumni Federation which 
is very gratifying to the Executive 
Committee. 10 is to be hoped a 
largo Jsumber of the alumnae will 
attend the meetings that are to be 
held during the year.)
The never-failing Janssen Hoftbrau, famed for its wonderful din
ners, put up the usual tasty layout 
from soup to nuts. During the 
courses the diners daficed to-an ex
cellent orchestra and had a regular 
old time visit. It was, in fact, a 
meeting of old', friends, of old Techites, who had a lot to say of days 
gone by at Tech. To the bystanders 
it appeared to be a family reunion. 
Tho spiiit of co-operation and goodfellowship that pervades Tech sure
ly is well grounded. One has only 
to attend a meeting of the New 
York Clan to see this spirit shown. 
Dancing continued after the dinner 
to the "wee' sma hours and the 
guests departed at the call of the
Uncles heralding Armistice Day.
Mention must be made of what 
little business was transacted.' (Pres
ident Patterson gave short resume
of tiie work ^ done by the Clan dur
ing the past year. He touched on 
tho Clans efforts .toward the fur
therance of increased endowment 
for the institution, their work dur
ing i the athletic drive, the publicaLion of our business directory, the 
Tech index and other problems that 
the Alumni Federation must shoulder 
and ultimately solve. The secretary 
read a report which showed the
ilmincial blii.tus of tho Clan to be
in good condition.)
The next mqc-ting will bo hold 
early in December. Election of of
ficers for the coming year will be 
hold and all members are urged to 
attend. A Christmas meeting is contomp'ated at which it is lipped a 
largo number of the undergraduate 
body whose homes are in the Metro
politan area will be on hand.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
Tho second mooting of the 
Youngstown Cllm Avas hold on Wed
nesday, Novombor 10, in tho Y. M.
C. A. The following members were 
prosont: W. 10. Boalcr '16; W. N.
Klannagan, 15; S. D. Stowart,,13;
F. 0. Beede, '19; It. P. Woodward, 
20; W. A. Simpson, former student; 
O. J. Jenkins, Connor student; F. 
L. Rownd, '11; J. A. Small, *09; S.
B. McPheo, former student, W. S. 
Scott, '14.
After a delightful dinner President 
Beede called, the meeting to order. 
Tlio minutes of the last meeting
were read and old business was 
taken up and disposed of. s
J. W. Batman, assistant alumni 
secretary, was then introduced as 
the speaker of the evening. Mr. 
Batman stated his talk would em
brace three phases of college life 
School, Athletics and Alumni. He 
gave a brief outline of the (progress 
the Institute had made since it was 
founded, and showed that scholastic
ally we rate as one of the best 
Technical Colleges in the country.
On athletics, he reviewed the pro
gress made during the hist eight 
years, and paid special tribute to 
our graduate manager, coach, as
sistant coach and football team.
In regard to alumni work, Mr. 
Batman outlined the things that had 
been ajcoomplished and spoke of 
the many that still remained undone. 
1-Ie asked for the clans to co-oper
ate and help the alumni office in 
keeping in touch with out of town 
alumni.
Mr. F. L. Rownd was appointed 
chairman of the Constitution Com
mittee and was asked to make a re
port at an early date.
After much discussion in regard 
to old times, at Tech, the meeting 
adjourned.
Watch The Tartan for an early 
meeting date of the Clan.
PITTSBURGH CLAN
The next Pittsburgh Clan meet
ing will be held in the Assembly 
Room of the Fort Pitt Hotel, Tliursday, December 1, at 12:10 p. m. An 
interesting program is toeing ar
ranged.
BOSTON CLAN
This may be a little late, but Bos
ton has a staunch lot of Carnegie 
Tech boosters. On November 12 
eleven of them had dinner at the Y. 
W. C. A. building, Cambridge, Mass. 
Arrangements were made through 
the entertainment committee of 
which John F. Maxwell, 16, is chair
man. The favors and. decorations 
were enjoyed by all, for which we 
thank Miss Marion Roberts.
It seemed like a real Carnegie 
Campus/ Blow-out:. Youll all agjree 
with us, for Southbridge showed up 
in force, Mr. and Mrs. H. J. McCorkle.
The party adjourned from the din
ing room to the parlor. We had an 
informal discussion on the Tech gym 
and athletic field, new members for 
the. Boston Clan and a constitution 
and by-laws.
Gilbert Clark, 20, seemed to know 
every Tecliite in New England, and 
gave our secretary lots of hiolp on 
addresses. Our president, A. L. Morley, 17, objects to being called a 
president. The head of a clan should 
bo called a chieftain, but what worrios us is what to call our vice pres
ident, H. J. McCorkle, '11, and our 
socretary, Miss Mary Olive Wight. 
11. Miss Wight objects to being 
called a "Bard for fear of our call
ing on her for solos. Wo ask the other 
clans for help in this matter.
After songs which follow When 
Good Fellows Get Together, we ad
journed to meet with as many mem
bers of the Now England club as will 
be in Boston, December 30.
ALUMNI! DON'T FORGET THE 
CARNEGIE BIRTHDAY PARTY 
FOR YOU FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 
25, AT 8:15, IN THE COLLEGE 
OF FINE ARTS BUILDING.
There will be stunts and music 
by students and alumni; theater per
formance by students of the Dra
matic Department; continuous danc
ing.
If you have not secured your tick
ets necessary for admission, come 
out and there will be a man at tho 
door to identify you.
Remember this is one of the fev 
student, alumni, faculty affairs held 
during the year and now is your 
chance to renew old acquaintances 
and make new ones.
INDUSTRIES BOARD
OF GOVERNORS
The Industries Board of Gover
nors held its monthly meeting in 
the Alumni Office Thursday, Novem
ber 17. Members present were Lit
tle, Kelly, Ingham, Rabenstein. Lee, 
Yost, Batman. Absent, Koontz, Mesta, Miller.
Til?, minutes of the previous meet
ing were read and approved. The 
by-laws for the College of Indus
tries as submitted by the Federation 
Board were accepted. President 
Little gave a brief outline of the 
progress of the Gymnasium Commit
tee.
Under new business, it was voted 
tQ join in with the Science and Arte 
Association for a joint alumni smoV 
er. The Industries Smoker Com
mittee is as follows: L. T. Kelly,
W. S. Rabenstein, J. B. Ingham, W.
H. Oakley, J. W. Batman.
The date for this smoker will bo 
announced in the next issue of The 
Tartan.
Y. M. C. A. NOTES 
SWIM
Tonight at 7:30 swimming at the 
Schenley High school. The Schenley 
tank is a fine place to take a dip and 
to keep in form for next summer at 
tho beach. All men are requested to 
be out to the Wednesday evening 
swims, 7:30 at the Schenley High 
School, Bellefleld avenue and Center 
fifteen minutes walk from the Cam
pus.
DISCUSSION GROUPS
At 12:30 foday Professor Simson 
of the College of Science will give 
another of his lectures. Subject for 
todays lecture being on Hebrew man
uscripts. Professor Simson is an au
thority on the subject of ancient man
uscripts, and all students interested 
in the Bubject are requested to meet 
in the Y Club at 12:30 today. Room 
124-A, Industry.
This is for the ladies as well as 
the gentlemen. When your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. We will call for it 
and deliver it. Our work is the 
best* our service quick, our prices 
reasonable. Miss OLeary, 3933 
Forbes street.
SEE US 
About our special offer 
Four Suits Pressed $1.50. 
AIKEN FORBES TAILORING 
COMPANY 
5817 FORBES STREET 
Phone Hazel 3601.
MURRAY RESTAURANT 
Squirrel Hills Exclusive Dining 
Room.
Corner
FORBES AND MURRAY AVE. 
Squirrel Hill 
Hazel 9373.
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig.
Battery recharging and repair
ing. Radio batteries recharged 
$1.00. Accessories.
Westinghouse Lamps. 
Schenley 4545.
FOR BEST RESULTS 
SEE US
THE TECH SHOE 
REPAIR SHOP
O. K. RESTAURANT
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Fjflh Avenue Boot Shop
. near 4Bih Street, New Yvork. 
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
Exhibit Shops 
In all the larger cities.
HOME COOKING 
Mother does the baking.
FRANKS RESTAURANT
4527 FORBES STREET
KID PARTY GIVEN
BY DRAMATICS
Yoo, Hoo, Sklnnay, Dyou have a 
good time at the party?
"Ill tell the world I did! 
Because it was the best party that 
any kids have ever staged since Hec
tor was a pup, and way back before 
even that, if you ask anyone who 
was there. The occasion? Oh, it was 
the older kids of the Drama Depart
ment party for the new members of 
the family. A kind of welcome for 
the new little dimpled dax-lings who 
just an*ived this year. Everybody was 
there, from the little bankers daugh
ter with her satin paxty- dress trim
med with flowers to the tough kid 
from over by the Gas Works; from 
the little mammas boy in neat sailor 
suit that he couldnt get. mussed to 
the kid in gingham rompers; from 
Little Lord Fauntleroy to the baby 
that couldnt walk who spent most of 
the evening lying on his back clap
ping his hands and crowing. And 
they all enjoyed themselves as only 
the Drama Department can when 
they get together and just decide to 
have all the fun tliex*e is in the world. 
They are not self-conscious, they 
have had too much training before 
critical audiences to allow of any re
straint. when they are at liberty to 
play as they ploaso. They axe the 
unit on the campus which is a real 
happy family; with all the little quar
rels of such a family, of course, but 
with all tho depth of fooling of tho 
same group just, underneatlu 
After dancing and playing games 
had gone on for about, an hour the 
entertainment of the affair began. Lit
tle !Avry Ayes did a Spanish dance, 
that he Just lonrned at dancing 
school. Itijrwas a soreahi. Then some 
of the children gave a "show." The 
scenWy was lovely. The show was 
called Uxxsuppressed Desires, or tho 
Unsung Song of Songs. and containi-d many hits upon a real grown-up 
show, which was seen here recently. 
Georgia Hoag was featured in the fa
mous dual role of the two lil orphant 
brothers. Davie iGnither also played.
Much of the success is due to the 
committee in ct.arge, Arthur Lubin,J
ELECTRIC LIGHT 42 YEARS OLD
Interesting Facts1 About Edison's In
vention, Anniversary of Which Is
Being Celebrated This Year.
(By E. W. Davidson.)
Since man flx*st walked the earth 
he has met the great needs of his 
daily life toy trying first one thing 
and then another, pex-sistently, ingeni
ously, until he got what he had to 
have. By that means he obtained 
food that was good for him, and 
clothing and shelter that really pro
tected, axxd light that has been 
handed down through the ages, con
stantly increasing in tox-illiance and 
sex-viceability fx-om the pine knot, 
the tallow-candle, the wick-in-oil and 
,the gas burner to the incandescent 
electric lamp of todaythe lamp 
whose invention 42 years ago, in 
Octobei*, 1879, by Thomas A. Edison 
is being celebrated this yeax*.
Research  this ihquisitiveness 
which grew out of a mans constant 
striving after new and better things 
embx-aces whole gx*oups, of profes
sions ipeopled by men and women 
who are devoting their lives to sci
entific impx-ovement of tlxab which 
satisfies mans wants. And of all 
researches, it would be hard to find 
one that has, lesulted in so much 
definite benefit to lxiankind as that 
ixx which Mr; Edison played so nota
ble apart in the year 1879.
Long bofore 1S79in1S10the 
arc lamp was devised. By 1S7S it 
had become well established for out
door illumination. But it was too 
powerful for home or office lighting. 
The task before the olectrical re
searchers of tho time was to "sub
divide it into units smnll enough 
for indoor use. Sevex*al men had 
made incandescent lamps which ra
diated light from a carbon rod in 
a partial vacuum to prevent the carbon from burning up instantly. But 
none of those crude lamps would 
burn long enough to make them 
practical.
as chairman and assisted by Berdett 
Kappas, Peg Harmon, Eunice Osborne 
and Peg Ripley.
Then Mr. Edison centered his remarkatole talent tix'elessly upon the 
problem in 1878. For a year he expox*imented, making an occasional 
forward1 step.
He thought a carbon thread would 
make the best filament. But it had 
to operate in a more nearly perfect 
vacuum than any obtainable at the 
time. So he built a superior pump 
to secure such a vacuum. Then he 
struggled'for weeks to find the right 
sort of material to carbonize into 
a filament, usiug bamboo, cotton 
thread, and finally cardboard paper.
Having made his fine filament, and 
secured a sufficiently high vacuum 
on which it might operate inside a 
glass bulb, the next difficulty was 
to get the filament sealed inside 
the buib. The connection between 
the filament and the current wire 
outside the bulb had to be made ot 
some matei'ial that would expand 
and contract at the same rate as 
glass in oider that the glass would 
not ci-aclc. He produced an alloy oi 
platium and iridium which filled this 
need.
Then the first Edison lamp was 
made October 21, 1879. When it was 
attached for a trial, employes in the 
Edison laboratories at Menlo Park, 
N. J., wagered excitedly over the 
number of minutes it would burn 
toefoi*e the fragile filament broke. It 
burned 45 hours. Mr. Edison 'knew 
he had succeeded.
Sinoe then other epoch making 
improvements have been made in 
the 'incandescent lamp. Dr. W. D 
Coolidge of the General Electric 
Company in 1910 discovered how to 
make tungsten, that brittlest of all 
metals, ductile so it could be drawn 
out into filament of any size rang 
ing down to a gauge six times finer 
than human hair and tougher than 
any known substance for lamp use. 
The tungsten lamp then replaced 
the far less efficient carbon lamp.
A few years ago Dr. Irving Langmuii* discovered that if lamp bulbs 
were filled with aigon, one of tin 
most inei-t gases in our atmosphere 
the tungsten' filament would opex-ate 
at even higher temperatures with 
even longer ,life. This xesulted in 
the gas-fllled lamp which, in various 
forms, is one of the highest pro
ducts of electric lamp makers today.
Thus, one thing and then another 
has boon tried by experimenters in 
lamps just as prehistoric man made 
his crude efforts in his own behalf 
Constant reseai*ch has given, man r 
better and better lamp so that the 
most modexm ones among the more 
than four hundred million which 
glow eveiy 24 hours all around the 
world, ax-e giving eight times a.c 
nxuch light for a given input of current as Mr. Edisons original lamps 
and the cost of lighting in 1919 was 
but three per cent of the cost in 
1881.
Character 
Building
Early association with a 
strong banking institution 
will not only Inculcate thrift, 
but the kindly advice of its 
experienced officers will as
sist you materially.
We welcome the accounts 
of sincere men and women.
Mellon National Bank
After Every Meal'WRKLEVS
TEN
FORFIVE CENTS
B130The Flavor Lasts!
