CAENEGIE GUILD 
MEMBERSHIP DRIVE 
TODAY
! CARNEGIE-NOTRE DAME
SATURDAY, 2:00 P. M. 
FORBES FIELD
I
VOL. XIX No. 10CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1924
PLAID CLOSES 
GRID SEASON 
ON SATURDAY
KnuteRocknesWonderTeam 
Four Horsemen, et al., to 
PranceUp and DownForbes 
Field in Years Best Game
TO TAKE NON-DEGREE MEN'S
THISTLE PICTURES TODAY
The Thistle Picture for both first 
and second year Non-Degree men will 
be taken on Machinery Hall steps to
day at 1 oclock. Tomorrow (Wednes
day), November 26. a regular NonDegree meeting will be held in Room 
104, Industries, at 4:30 p. m. Plans 
for a smoker and a basket ball team 
will be announced.
IRISH ARE UNBEATEN
Carnegie Techs football season 
will officially close this Saturday, 
when Notre Dame journeys in from 
South Bend Ind., to meet the Tar
tans at Forbes Field. With the visi
tors enjoying the reputation they do, 
it is certain that there will be no 
lack of spectators. As in former 
years, the iHoosier outfit is ranked 
among the leaders, but even so, 
knowing the quality and fight of the 
Plaid, a good game is predicted.
Graduate Manager Over end has 
been swamped with applications for 
tickets and as a result is fast selling 
out of reserved seats. For the benefit 
of the late comers the office in the 
Gym will be open until ten every 
night this week, and the few seats 
left may be obtained at $2.50 each. 
The Carnegie student ticket will ad
mit but only to the cheering section, 
which, will be located in left field as 
last Saturday. For the public gen
eral admission will b'e $1.50, with 
seats in right and left field bleach
ers.
The game will start promptly at 
2:30 p. m., there being no prelimin
ary match as the Plebes played out 
their schedule two weeks ago. Hence 
all eyes will be centered on this at
tempt of the varsity to subdue an 
undefeated team. Notre Dame, mak
ing its third annual Pittsburgh inva
sion, has no intention to having its 
fair record marred at this late date 
and will consequently do its best to 
smother the Plaid. The latter, on 
the other hand, -with visions of the 
glory that would be theirs were they 
to. win, are sure to fight for every 
yard. The one fact that stands out 
is that it will be a game worth see
ing.
Carnegie never has defeated the 
wonder team from Indiana, although 
two years ago the Tartans held them 
to 19 to 0, and last year, playing in 
the mud, to 26 to 0. This year No
tre Dame seems better than ever, but 
victory is not conceded till' the final 
whistle. A win over the probable 
Eastern champions is harly to be ex
pected, tis true, but it is not outside 
the realm of possibility and as long 
as there remains that chance it is 
expected that the whole student body 
will continue to spport the team 
with all the pep and vigor traditional 
of Carnegie.
TAU BETA PI MAKES 
SELECTIONS TODAY
PLAAIDDCC IO SC EGRNT UY
 rvrv/^Y\TrT'T",r\ pAr\ Good students of the College,
Aril JlN I M I r()K Unmindful of the times.l Vyl\| lf you would heed the rumor
WOMENS PROM SKS
---------------------- N j And set aside for play,
rry , ,  a , * Revive the happy custom,Tentative Arrangements Are Nolst, mA ,.u,gWor gny.
Being Made For the Music ''"blt 1'th ra,m>us-Volumes fill the ball,and Favors, But the Place At Carhegie's party.
Lonii live Guild Carnival!Remains Undecided ____________
JAN. 16 IS DATE SET
M. E. Skinner Will Address 
Students at Engineering 
Assembly
The fall elections to Tau Beta Pi 
will be announced at the Assembly of 
the College of Engineering today at 
11:30 a. m.
The program consists of a talk by 
Mr. M. E. Skinner, the presentation of 
a slide rule by Prof. Trinks, and the 
announcement of the elections to Tau 
Beta Pi, by Director Mott, of the En
gineering College.
Mr. M. E. Skinner, who will de
liver the'' address, is assistant vice 
president of the Duquesne Light Com
pany of this city. He is a Tau Beta 
Pi man himself, and graduated from 
the University of Wisconsin.
At the request of the local chapter 
of Tau Beta Pi, Prof. Trinks, head of 
the Mechanical Engineering Depart
ment, will present the slide rule. The 
recipient of the slide rule will be that 
Sophomore in the Engineering Col
lege who had. the best scholastic, rec
ord during his freshman year.
W. E. Mott, Director of the College 
of Engineering, will announce the 
elections.
The men eligible for Tau Beta Pi 
at this time are the Seniors in the 
Engineering College, who stand, 
scholastically, in the upper fourth of 
their class, and the junior who has 
the best scholastic record up to the 
beginning of his junior years.
Tau Beta Pi is a national honorary 
scholastic engineering fraternity with 
chapters in forty-eight of the principal 
engineering schools of the United 
States.
The men are chosen for this organi
zation on a basis of scholastic work 
and interest and activity in school af
fairs. In order to be eligible for con
sideration, one must be on the upper 
fourth of his class at the beginning of 
the senior year, in the upper eighth of 
his class in the spring of his junior 
year, or the high man at the beginning 
of his junior year.
The high junior and the seniors in 
the upper quarter are considered in 
the fall, which the juniors in the up
per eighth are considered in the' 
spring. Elections are held tv/ice a 
year, once in the fall and once in the 
spring.
Heads of Committees 
For Arts Ball Named
Period of Affair to Be Decided 
After Assembly Today
With the appointment of chairmen 
of the various committees something 
tangible seems to have, been accom
plished toward the realization of the 
Arts Ball. Earl Wheeler, editor of 
the Thistle and secretary of the commitee last year, is assistant chair
man of the present committee; J. Ar
thur Ropp treasurer, Bob Shreve as
sistant treasurer, and Edwin Eberinan 
secretary.
Mr. V. S. Molleneaur, general chairthe ffeiveryZ... EPo thicn ! GBZdberm 
man of the committee, has appointed 
the following as chairman of the sev
eral sub-committees.
Design...........................~... Renato Rutuli
Execution of Decoration. Curtis Colvin
Construction..................Wm. B. Simboli
Entertainment. .0. B. Newman and 
Herb Polesie
Publicity............................... Cal Lunquist
Social Committee.. .Margaret Taylor, 
chairman, assisted by Harold Wagner 
(Continued From Page Two.)
Council Favors Sat. 
Nite Dances in Union
The junior girls have started plans 
for the biggest event of the yearthe 
Womeus Junior Promwhich will 
take place on January 16, 1924.
Madeline Dale, President of the ju
nior class of M. M., and Mildred Semans, Vice President of the junior 
class of Arts, have selected the fol
lowing girls to serve on the commit
tee: Mary Hill, M. M., chairman; Lu
cille Anderson, M. M.; Dorothy Con
nor, M. M.; Alice Nelson, Arts; Mary 
Dale, M. M.; Phoebe Hoenning, Arts; 
Harriet Merwin. M. M.; Ann Martin, 
M. M.; and Estelle Garibaldi. M. M.
The committee has already had one 
meeting at which many tentative 
plans were made and discussed. The 
usual obstacles encountered in select
ing a scene for the activities which 
will have the proper atmosphere of 
beauty and dignity are being studied
The selection of the orchestra has 
not been taken up as yet, but will 
probably be worked on at. the next 
meeting. Alice Nelson is chairman of 
the committee working on this part 
of the program.
The food problem will be handled 
by a capable Home Ec., Mary Dale. 
No inkling as to the exact nature of 
the feed has been let out, but she 
promises that it will be both palatable 
and interesting.
Dorothy Connor, in charge of favors, 
is on the lookout for anything novel, 
useful, or interesting in the way or 
favors. It is hoped that anyone who 
has any. suggestions or ideas will get 
in touch with her.
CASTLE CALLS MEN 
AT LAST ASSEMBLY
Four R. C. T. C. Officers Are 
PledgedTennis Cups 
Are Awarded
Junior Banquet to Be 
Held at Chatham Hotel
Choice Popular With Juniors; 
Banquet Three Weeks Off
Four men were called at the an
nual fall pledging of the Castle held 
during General Assembly last week. 
Those men honored are J. D. Jarema,
E. C. Tatum, A. G. Wilson and R. 
Riegelmeier, all cadet officers in the 
local R. O. T. C. to which the Castle 
limits its selection.
These men have' all distinguished 
themselves in various military activi
ties and have been chosen on this 
basis. Jarema won both of the cups 
offered for marksmanship last year 
and received a citation at an honor 
man at camp the year before. Tatum 
and Riegelmeier have remarkable 
drill records to their credit and have 
excited frequent comment by their 
skill in instructing the underclass
men. A. G. Wilson gained almost 
national prominence by his excellent 
shooting at Camp Meade last year 
being chosen as one of a team of four 
to represent the Third Corps Area.
The main speaker of the day was 
Captain Lyons. The Captain spoke 
mainly about school spirit, particular
ly commending our spirit and enthu
siasm at the Pitt and State games.
Rod Van Atta, winner, and Tod 
Moessner, runner-up of the Fall Ten
nis tournament were presented with 
loving cups by Mrs. Arnold Funk, 
coach of the Varsity Tennis team. Tho 
cups were*- awarded by the Tennis 
club.
Tho pledges of PI Delta Epsilon, 
honorary journalistic fraternity, went 
through their public initiation, carry
ing the gigantic pen, emblem of t.holr 
art and ambition, Into the assembly.
(Continued on Page Three.)
SCHWAB GIVES 
INSPIRING TALK 
CARNEGIE DAY
New Plan Not Yet Approved 
Officially
The Student Council has gone on 
record as favoring a plan of having 
a dance on the campus every Satur
day night during the school year.
At present the Student 'Council is 
conducting Saturday night football 
dances, the proceeds of which are 
turned over to the Athletic Associa
tion. These football dances have 
proved to be quite popular with the 
student body and the indications 
point to a continued patronage of the 
Saturday ' night dances were contin
ued throughout the school year.
Of course, whenever any Carnegie 
campus organization has a dance 
scheduled in the Union for a Satur
day night, the Student Council will 
merely oversee it, leaving the said 
organization take over the proceeds.
The principal idea o the new 
plan, which has not as yet been of
ficially sanctioned, is to insure hav
ing a Carnegie dance on the campus 
every Saturday night.1 Every Satur
day which is not scheduled for a 
danoe by a campus organization 
would find a dance scheduled in the 
Union by the Student Council through 
its proper representatives.
Under this plan the Student Coun(Continued on Page Three..)
The Junior Banquet Committee has 
finally decided upon the Chatham 
Hotel, Penn avenue, downtown, as 
the place in which the banquet will 
be held.
The choice is a popular one with 
members of the class, since they 
freely aired their opposition to any 
other than a downtown hotel before 
the selection was made. Tho Juniors 
feel that only in a secluded spot can 
they lose their shroud of dignity long 
enough to spend an enjoyable evening.
The committee still has many de
tails to arrange for in the three weeks 
preceding the night of the banquot. 
The entire guest list has not been 
made up, but Profs. Kirkpatrick and 
Beebe are to be present. The price 
has not been definitely set. but the 
committee announced at a meeting of 
the Science Juniors that it would 
probably be $2.50.
Charles Bassett and "Pete Sea
man, in charge of the entertainment, 
are busy hunting talent of a quality 
suitable for the occasion. They have 
several stunts in mind, but they are 
silent as to the nature of them. They 
promise, however, that no one will be 
disappointed over the lack of
warmth in the affair.
The reasonable price, the promise 
of good entertainment and the reputa
tions of similar affairs of the past 
should tax the capacity of the banquet 
hall.
Girls Dorms Soon to 
Have New Name Plates
Fitting Symbols Will Be 
Placed About Dec. 7
SONG BOOK STAFF TO 
GIVE PRIZE FOR MARCH
First Shilling of Year Appears This 
Week With Well Known Contributors
The first Shilling of the season will 
make its appearance some day this 
week, when various members of the 
staff will be stationed at the most ad
vantageous points on the campus. 
This issue of the Shilling represents 
the culmination of two months of ear
nest effort on the part of the staff, 
who are ainjing to make it the mosi 
interesting number ever published.
In order that we may become bet
ter acquainted with the Shillings con
tributors, the staff has installed in 
this issue a novel feature in the form 
of a contributors page," which gives 
a short introduction to each contri
butor. Along with a number of other 
campus notables appears the name of 
no other than our own Obie Newman.
j Who ever  thought that /our "CapI tain Courageous had literary inclina
tions?
The Shilling Bridge which was held 
at Kaufman and Baer's auditorium a 
week ago last Saturday proved quite 
| a success. A considerable number of 
I alumni was present. The proceeds of 
this bridge will give able financial 
| assistance to the Shilling, and will 
I enable it to contain more matters of 
I interest to the student body in gen
eral.
| The Shilling is the one publication 
i which aims to put on the campus the 
j best literary efforts of the students 
\ of Carnegie, It affords an opportunity 
| to the ambitious writer to express 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The Kilties want a new march; 
they need a new march very badly; 
in fact they crave a new march more 
than anything in the world. Somebody 
j asked them recently why they always 
j played the same one, and they said 
I the played it because the did not have 
a real Carnegie March, but are will
ing to play another  absolutely1if 
they had something appropriate, as 
a result of this knowledge, the Car
negie Song Book Committee, backed 
by Student Council, is uttering a plea 
I for students, faculty, or friends to 
compose a march which the Kilties 
may use on all and various occasion; 
j and they are offering a prize of five 
(Continued on Page Two.
An event;, long anticipated, will 
take place In the near future when 
the name plates for the girls dormi
tories will be placed upon tho houses.
A border of thistle surround, In cir
cular form an Inn, representing edu
cational life which throws forth light 
to all parts of tho soal. Covering the 
lower portion of the tablet is the 
name, selected from a tree. Those 
plates are to be made in bronze and 
when dedicated on or about Decem
ber 7th, they will further establish 
the Carnegie ideal of promoting ideas.
Dean Brown is highly satisfied with 
the outcome of events and is anxious
ly awaiting the dedication day when 
the plans, sponsored over a 
year ago will be realized.
This writer was permitted to
gaze upon two of the finished
tablots and was so impressed with the
elegant design and perfect moulding 
and casting that he expressed, Surej ly the girls will say, Call me up at 
| the Pines or The Sycamore, and will 
| not mention the number of the street. 
| It adds just a little more elegance to 
i our campus. The young man calling 
J upon his lady love will no more be 
required to search vainly down the 
! long row of girls dormitories seeking 
an address which usually is not on 
the house; but will only glance at 
| the brilliantly shining tablet, symboli izing a slender pine or sturdy oak 
and ring.
Famous Executive Delivers 
Informal Address Dealing 
With Memories of Carnegie 
and a Recipe For Happiness 
SECOND SPEECH HERE
On Friday November 21, one of the 
most interesting programs ever given 
at a Carnegie Day celebration was 
presented at Carnegie Music Hall In 
honor of the birthday of the founder. 
The speaker of the day, Charles M. 
Schwab, well known not only because 
of his position in industry, but also 
because of his closo friendship with 
Andrew Carnegie, delivered an ad
dress that was an inspiration to every 
student attending this institution. 
Other items on the program included 
the invocation, by Rev. Hutchison of 
the East Liberty Presbyterian church, 
several selections by the orchestra, 
announcements, a motion picture of 
Mr. Carnegie and the singing of the 
Alma Mater.
The students lined up according to 
the plan decided upon, and marched 
down to the Hall with the band. The 
exercises began with little delay, and 
soon Mr. Schwab was Introduced to 
the audience. His address dealt.h with 
his relations with Mr. Carnegie, and 
his own ideas of success and happi
ness. One of the important attributes 
of the Founder was that lie Insisted 
on being. In a happy frame of mind 
in order to do the best work. Even in 
reprimanding an assistant, he did it 
in a pleasant way, a method which 
brought better results than could bo 
gained otherwise..
For absolute happiness. Mr. Schwab 
gavo the following requirements: to 
be engaged in a useful occupation, 
to have no more monoy than nocos 
(Continuod on Page Three..)
Sale of Thistles Slow; 
Campaign After Xmas
Many Novel Features Will 
Be Introduced This Year
The first. Thistlo sales campaign 
of tho year ended on Saturday, tho 
twenty-second. As was to be expocted in the preliminary campaign, 
conducted mainly for advertising pur
poses, ono hundred per cent of the 
studonts promlsod to buy Thistles, 
and four or five per cent bought.
Though the proposal of Howard 
Strang, circulation manager, that 
tho students give thomsclivos Thistles 
on tho Installment plan for Christ
mas prosonts, did not meet with 
overwhelming enthusiasm, ho was not 
discouraged. Tho buslnoss staff Is 
already hard at work on prparations 
for the next campaign, which will 
likely bo the final ono, to bo held 
next semester.
l'Ile 1925 Thistle will ho tho host 
evor, lf tho enthusiasm of tho odltor 
Is a criterion of quality. Earl Wheel
er, Junior Arcliltoct and Editor-InChief of the year book, takes more 
interest In his Work than a Dramat 
Plebe takes in the Art Co-eds. With 
a hard worker like Wheeler directing 
affairs, it is not likely that the staff 
will have to go "on Charette in the 
fi/nal weeks of preparation to pfroduce 
a book of the quality necessary to 
uphold the standards of Carnegie.
A few of the good things planned 
by Wheeler and his staff may be di
vulged at this time. These are mereContinued on Page Four.)
NEWMAN CLUB GIVES THANKS
GIVING DANCE THIS EVENING
Tho Newman Club of Pittsburgh 
will hold its annual Thanksgiving! 
dance this evening from nine till 
one at tho Duquesne K. of c. Coun
cil House, Fifth and Bel le fi old ave
nues. 'Hie committee, composed of 
students of Carnegie, Pitt and Duquesne, announces that all arrange
ments have been completed and cor
dially invites all fellow Newmanites 
and their friends.
TARTANS DROP 
TOUGH BATTLE 
ITO QUANTICO
ROLLER APPOINTS 
SUB-COMMITTEES
Prom Officials Considering a 
Nationally Famous Or
chestra
Field Goal By Groves in Last 
Period is Margin of Defeat 
Skibos Make 1C FirstDowns 
to 8 For Heavier Marines
The work of the Junior Prom Com-1 
mittee under the ablo directorship of 
chairman Roller is well under way. 
Tho sub-committees have been ap
pointed and are ^working tirelessly 
along their particular lines. The sub
committees are: Hall, OConnor,
chairman; Music, Harris, ' chairman; 
Dinner, Proctor, chairman; Favors, 
Proctor and Ivristoff; Decorations, 
Wagner, chairman; Publicity, Murphy, 
chairman; Treasurer, Yoder; Student 
Council Representative. Beedo.
The arrangements for tho Hotel are 
practically complete, but the commit
tee is not' prepared at this time to 
announce It as there aro a few final 
arrangements to be completed before 
tho contract Is signed. It is assured 
that tho committee has taken' care to 
provide a place amply largo enough 
to accommodate comfortably tho esti
mated attendance. The Prom thin 
yoar Is going to bo larger and a more 
lai)orate than any Prom of previous 
years.
The selection of an orchestra. Is the 
biggest problem now, confronting tho 
committee. There are under consider
ation some of the best, orchestras In 
the country, and tho award will be 
made upon tho basis of ability and 
popularity. It Is realized by tho com
mittee that tho success of tho prom 
depends In a large measure upon the 
selection of a fine orchestra and a 
largo and beautiful location. Acting 
with this thought. In mind the corn
ili Ittoo is leaving no stone unturned 
to secure tho very host In t.holr re
spective linos and the results so far 
huv boon most gratifying,
A m-mu for Ilio midnight, supper, 
fit for an oplcuroan, 1s being prepar
ed. This year It will be able to aconimodale everybody at a single sot
ting. to conserve valuable dancing 
time which otherwise would ho lost..
Tho budget, Is not yet completed 
but from all early Indlcalons, 'the 
cost this year will bo approximately 
the sumo as last yoar, ovon although 
there are more elaborate arrangemonts planned,
MAY MOVE INDUSTRIES 
CLUB ROOM TO 124 C. IND.
! Y. M. C. A. WILL HOLD STAG
UNION ON CATURDAY, DEC. 6
I The stag that the men have been 
I looking forward to for some time is 
to be held on Saturday, December 6. 
All the men in school are Invited to 
come From 8 oclock until 12, there 
will be a lively program, chock full 
of interest and entertainment for 
everyone. It is to be given in the 
j Union.
Bob Kredel is promoting it, and 
has arranged for an excellent pror 
gram. There will be plenty of eats, 
and everything points to a snappy 
time. It will be a real "Y stag.
In order to alleviate the situation 
! concerning permanent offices for the 
various publications on the campus, 
j the Student Council Committee on 
i Budget Organizations has evolved a 
| plan which will give each publica| lion permanent quarters.
The plan calls for the removal of 
! the present Industries Club Room In 
i Room 12, Industries, 'to Room 124 C, 
which Is next to the Y. M. C. A. ofj fice In the long corridor of the Inj dustrlcs Building.
I Room 12, which is opposite tho 
j The Carnegie Tartan office, could 
| then be used to accommodate the 
j Thistle, tho Song Book, the Puppet 
j and the Technical Journal. Tho Situ* 
j ling has obtained an office on the 
| top floor of the Margaret Morrison 
| Building.
| The Thistle now has part of its 
! equipment in the Alpha Tau room 
j which adjoins The Tartan office and 
j part in Room 129, Industries. All 
(Continued on Page Three)
GAMBOL COMMITTEE 
HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED
The College of Industries will hold 
its annual dance, The Gambol of the 
Guilds, on February 14.
Plans are now being made for the 
affair and, according to all indications, 
it will be a bigger success than ever. 
It will be held in the Union.
The Gambol is an annual affair, 
held by the Industries students, which 
has been carried out for the past six 
years.
The first Gambol of the Guilds was 
held six years ago, and was called the 
Floric of the Laborers. The girls 
wore white overalls. However, for 
the last three years tho regular mode 
of dress has been worn.
Last year's dance was one of the 
best held on the campus, and the com
mittee are working hard to make tills 
years even better,
Tho following comm Ittoo has been 
(Continued on Pago Two.
80PH0M0RE DANCE IN
UNION TH18 AFTERNOON
Tho last tea dance before Thanks
giving will be held In tho Union this 
afternoon from 4:30 to C: 00.
Good music Is assured as the com 
mittee has, engaged an organized or
chestra instead of the usual nond 
script assortment of musicians. Thin 
is an all Carnegie affair and everyone 
from the lowly Pletye to the mighty 
S'CTiior is invited to attend.
TWO PLAID KICKS FAIL
Graphical Christmas 
Cards Selling Fast
Splendid Selection Available 
If Ordered Early
Graphic Christmas Cards are sell
ing like beef steaks tho day after 
Lent. The card campaign, now In Its 
third week, bids fair to be the most, 
successful ever hold by the Graphlca 
Club. With the full support of the 
sLudent body, the other men students 
of Carnegie may have a chance with 
the Maggie Murphs for a while, as 
all the printers will be busy produc
ing Christmas cards until vacation 
time.
Profiting by the experience gained 
in former years, the Graphlca took 
special care In selecting the draw
ing for tills years cards, In order to 
get variety of style, as well as high 
quality and novelty of design. The 
cards vary from the conventional to 
the unique, from the plain to the or
natein color schemes to suit the 
fastidious eye, even of tho Art stu
dents; in designs to please the fickle 
taste, even of the co-eds; with verses 
that will thrill the hearts, even of the 
Dramats,
Style A is a conventional house 
top snow scene in red, black, and 
white. It Is a masterpiece of dignity, 
with a touch of coziness that; reminds 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Last Saturday, on the slippery 
grass of Forbes Field, the Carnegie 
Tartans bowed before the Quantico 
Marino team 3 to 0. Carnegie lost, 
but the team not outplayed or 
outgamed. A beautiful field goal by 
Groves of the "Devil Dogs proved 
to bo the undoing of our ball-luggers, 
after 'Carnegie had played the Mu- 1 
riues to a standstill 111 the first three 
quarters. It was a hard game to 
lose, but when ono considers the size, 
weight experience and previous rec
ord of the Marines, it speaks vol
umes for the type of game played 
by the Steffen-coached crow. In 
fact last Saturday brought ot the 
best football Carneglo has played 
this year.
A novel stunt between halves 
enabled Carnegie to sink the Mar 
rlnes with little or 110 exertion. D.
1C. Minns with the help of his commLtoe and with money supplied by 
the Song Book Committee construct
ed a miniature battleship and summarine. The Quantico battleship was 
floated 011 the field followed in short 
order by the crapping Carnegie sub
marine. After being besieged by 
photographors, a miniature battle 011- 
suod In which tho Quantico boat was 
blown completely off the map. Tho 
second half of the game howovor, 
provod to bo a different story.
During the first half, both teams 
played oven ball, tho oval moving up 
and down tho Hold as each team took 
possession. Carnoglo and Quantico 
both possessed a powerful attack in 
111 Id 11 old, but when within scoring dis
tance, loose handling of the ball or 
an Increase- in tho opposition pre
vented scoring. Carnoglo passed nil 
scoring opportunities twice during 
tho first, half. This same type of 3 
play continued In the. third quarCor.
One could rondlly soo that If tho 
gamo was to be decided tho breaks 
would bo tho tolling factor. In tho 
fourth quarter the break did como 
and tho Marinos readily took advan
tage of It. Dnstlan fumbled tho ball 
and the Marinos recovered on Car
negies 48-yard line. The ball was 
advanced to Carnegie's 23-yard lino .1 
when the Tartans held for downs. A ^ 
beautiful executed Held goal by 
Groves spoiled Carnegie's chance of. '2 
gaining possession of the ball and; / 
making tho game a scoreless tie.,} 
Carnoglo threatened In the last min
ute when the hall was advanced tothe Marines 20-yard line. Bustlan, 
however, hardly mlssd the Held goal* 
that spelled defeat Instead of a tie.
Tho two teams wore nearly evoni * 
as far as first downs wore concomod,. 1, 
(Continued on Page Three. 1 I /
Architects Draw Up 
Plans For Infirmary
Will Be Erected By Building 
Construction Dept.
Tentative plans for the Meris\ In
firmary to be erected betweon, Mil
ler, Englebreelit, Boss and McGill 
halls, have been given to the soniors, 
who will design Individual drawings 
of the buildings exterior and floor 
plan. The Infirmary committee will 
choose the most suitable plan and 
will award the winning architect a 
much coveted book.
The actual plans being under way, 
the infirmary will soon be a reality. 
The plans, it is known, call for a 
one0 story brick structure with base! ment, containing fruit cellars and kit| ehen. The main floor will probably 
j have eight or ten private rooms, a 
j hath and linen closet, 
j The Building Construction Departj ment, it is intended, will erect the 
I structure from the winning design.
I Carnegie students will be ablo to 
point to the edifice as of their own 
I conception and construction.
Carnegie Guild Opens Membership
Drive Today With Sale of Tags 
The Carnegie Guild membership, 
drive begins today with a Guild As
sembly at Margaret Morrison, The | 
speakers will bo Piicllla Allison, *28, 
president of her class, who Is now I 
engaged In social work In Pittsburgh, j 
Miss Allison will speak on the sub
ject of the founding and past of tho I 
Carnegie Guild and also of Its possi
bilities and future. After the speech j 
a stunt will be put on by members of 
tho Guild, This stunt Is planned to 
launch the 1024 Membership Drive.
Members of the faculty and the 
men students as well as the women | 
students will be solicited In this years 
campaign. The Guild was originally 
an organization Inside of the Margar
et Morrison College, but last year was
enlarged to Include the whole school.  
Tags will bn sold during tho drive 
and the price of a tag will ho deduct- , 
ed from the admission fee of pur
chasers who attend the Guild Christ
inas Carnival, The admission to othors 
will be $1.50.
The plans for tho Guild Carnival 
this yoar are far more Intensive than 
those of previous years, and it Is ex
pected to be a great social and finan
cial success. Those on the commit
tee In charge do not wish to let the 
cat out of the bag all at once, but 
they admit that the chief feature of 
the program is to be, a Christmas pa
geant of a sixteenth century manor. 
The Girls Glee Club plans to furnish 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. NOVEMBER 25. 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postoffice uf Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH................................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROGH E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson R. R. Sitzler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS...........................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ....................................................................................................Schenley 9070
V. B. SMITH......................................................................................................Franklin r>o47.)
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS..............................................................................................................Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Lepper, M. Hollinshead, M. Dutt, Rosemary McCambridge, E. Tallmadge, 
M. Tucker. R. Hand, C. J. Byrne. S. P. Williams. N. Borzella.__________
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF ..................................................................................................Schenloy 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris. J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
William Bernardi.
* BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON....................................................................................................Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER .....................................................................................................Schenley 9122
. CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSIvOVITZ ...................................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow. N. Alexander, .T. L. Bauerle, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perretou, G. H. Carl, B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, II. 
Kandell.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the s.adent
post office before 4:30 Thursday.________________________________________________
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12-30- 
1:20.______________________________________________
SOMETHING NEW
Chemical Engineers 
Will Convene Dec. 3-6
WEEK IiN THE
WORLDS NEWSMusical Clubs Give 
Concert at Edgewood[ FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE j
ITALIAN SITUATIONProf. Trinks and Dr. Rittman TOAKEONAT-OND -GTRM 'TARNS Performance in Suburb FolTIONto Address A. I. C. E. GE-G-'KH ENTDE-NH MKEIKE lowed By Dance
In the copy of the Shilling published yesterday, there is one ar
ticle of particular interest and that is the one entitled The Religion 
of Youth. Leaving aside all questions as to the merit of the writing 
itself, the subject of the article is quite good. It discusses the re
ligion of the modern young people from the viewpoint of one of them. 
We do not know the author but he, or she, has obviously written with 
all sincerity. It is not a poetical fantasy, but a hard boiled, practical 
discussion. The author has obviously had some difficulty in express
ing his thoughts 011 the subject exa-ctly, but we all appreciate from 
experience how one feels when trying to discuss religion. All in all 
the article is very well done, and while everyone will not agree with 
the conclusions drawn, they cannot help but admire the frankness 
of the whole thing.
It is unusual, at least at Carnegie, for such an article to appear 
in a school magazine. And yet, what is more logical? Religious ques
tions occupy a large part in a mans mental makeup and there is no 
reason why they should not be discussed in his school magazine. As 
to the idea that religion is too weighty a matter for college students 
to write about, that is absurd. It is only by thinking and writing 
about things that we crystalize our opinions with any degree, of cer
tainty, and in addition such discussions will go far to instill a greater 
degree of truth in the results at which we arrive.
We feel that the Shilling has inaugurated a new policy in pub
lishing this article, and it deserves credit for it.
A BEAUTIFUL CAMPUS
For the bigger part of the year now, workmen have been labor
ing here, there, and everywhere on the campus, fixing this, fixing 
that; digging in here, and filling up there. In fact there seems to. 
have been a sort of race between the diggers and the fillers, with the 
first named getting off to a flying start. All this has been a part of 
a program for a beautiful campus, and it is bearing results.
It' you are skeptical, take a trip up 011 the second floor of Ma
chinery Hall. At the end of the corridor is found a window which 
offers a most excellent vipw of the rejuvenated campus. It is true 
that the promised walk between Machinery Hall and Science has not, 
yet materialized, and it is also true that the promised walk between 
industries and Science is somewhat of a makeshift, but nevertheless 
there is a very definite outline of an esthetic campus.- In order not to 
spoil the impression, one must keep from looking to the left, for there 
is the Science.Building.
After that is done, take a trip to some convenient window on 
the front of Arts school and have a look. Now, however, you must 
pot look to the right for there you will find SCIENCE.
Now, it is true that many engineers and scientists are of such a 
temperament that they would be unable to appreciate a beautiful 
temple if they had one, but after all, there are others then engineers 
and scientists on the campus, and even they are not all alike in that 
respect, so it seems to us that something should be done to the pres
ent Science Building.
There are two alternatives. We may put f) tarpaulin over it, or 
we may fix it up so that it will look presentable from the front and 
ear. That it will ever look respectalDle from the Forbes street side 
is too unlikely to be hoped for, but if the front and the rear were 
rimmed up a little, the sore thumb on our campus might be less 
prominent. When it becomes a question of improving or- adding to 
the physical equipment of Carnegie, the Science Building should 
have first consideration.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25
Tea Dance...................................................................................................4:30, [ nion
Four Short Plays..........................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 26
Four Short Plays..........................................................8:30 P. M., Little Thea.ter
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY AND SUNDAY, 
NOVEMBER 27, 28, 29 AND 30 
THANKSGIVING RECESS 
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 29
FootballNotre Dame..............................................................2:00 Forbes Field
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2
LectureDr. A. L. Day............................................................................8:30 P. M.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 3 
Play"A Pair oi Spectacles.............................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
HOWARD D. BOWMAN WILL 
ADDRESS S.I.E. MEETING
Mr. Howard D. Bowman, 24, one of 
our own graduates, will address the 
Carnegie student chapter of the So
ciety of Industrial Engineers at 
their monthly meeting, November 25. 
Mr. Bowmans topic is Production 
Processes. Pie will illustrate with 
moving pictures of processes in the 
modern plants of the American Rad
iator Company which employes him 
as sales representative in the West 
Virginia territory.
This meeting is the first of the 
year and is for the purpose of get
ting all Industries Sophomores in
terested in this society. This meet
ing will be held in Industries 104 at 
7:30 p. m. Note that the date is 
November 25 instead of November 
24, and there will be no supper as 
stated in the last issue.
. The purpose of. this society is to 
have the Industries students get acHEADS OF COMMITTEES
FOR ARTS BALL NAMED
(Continued From Page One)
Banquet Committee................Bob Kredel
Music..............................................E. F. Miller
Transportation................Myron Good win
Chairman of Secretaries committees, 
Eleanor Campbell
Plebe Supervisor................Bun Young
A meeting of the committees will 
be held today after assembly, to de
cide, among other details, the period 
of the Ball. This is always the ques
tion of greatest interest to the stu
dents. Several suggestions with pos
sibilities have been offereda Veni 
tian pageant, and an Arabian Night, 
are the most recent. Mr. Molleneaur 
will announce the choice of a period 
in the next issue of the Tartan.
Carnegies faculty members have 
announced preparations for the win
ter convention of the American Insti
tute of Chemical Engineers, to be held 
jointly in the Mellon Institute and 
Carnegie Tech, with lieadquarers in 
the Hoel Schenley. The chemists will 
convene December 3 and will be in 
session until December G.
The first day will be given over to 
registration at which time each engi
neer enrolled will designate the in
dustrial trip ho wishes to make. The 
convention will be formally inaugu- j 
rated in the Arts school with a play j 
by Carnegies Dramatic Department I 
in the evening. A reception and dance 
in the Arts foyer will follow.
The most popular local industrial 
trip will occupy the second day. The 
men will be given their choice of vis- j 
its to the Westinghouse Electric . I 
Manufacturing Co., Heinzs, and the j 
Edgar Thompson steel works. Special 
cars are to be chartered for this trip.
Friday will complete the excursions | 
to manufacturing plants. Then the 
chemists will visit the Sulphuric acirl 
plan at Donora and the Bi-Product 
Coke Co. at Clairton. The journey 
will be made in a special train.
Papers dealing with technical ac
complishments will be read by Prof. 
W. Trinks and by Dr. W. F. Rittman. 
who was engaged in chemical work 
during the war. Dr. J. II. James, a 
charter member of the Institute, has 
charge-of the entertainment commit
tee, while L. C. Turnock has charge 
of the excursions.
The final business session Satur
day will be followed by a banquet in 
the University club. A special enter
tainment program has been arranged 
by Dr. J. H. Janies.
This will be the second convention 
held here since the society was or
ganized in 190S. It was formed by agroup of industrial chemists who de
sired an organization that only men 
of technical merit could join.
Yuletide Puppet Will 
Solve All Problems
Send Xmas Number to Your 
Friends For Present
Do your Christmas shopping early. 
Heres a first suggestion for you. In 
a few weelcs Puppet is going to ap
pear with the last issue of 192*1. the 
Christmas number. This Yuletide is
sue is going to be a scroam, a roar 
from cover to cover, in short, red 
hot college comedy.
Just a word of description. Jack 
Frost is doing the cover, a gorgeous, 
colorful affair worthy of framing in 
itsolf. "Nuff sed. As for the jokeB 
and cartoons, this, thd fattest issue of 
the year, is going to house all of the 
choice dirt of the holidays. Buy a 
Puppet and get in on some of it.
Put the Christmas Puppet first on 
your shopping list. Send it to a doz
en of your friends; theyll be your 
friends for life. Mail a copy to that 
smooth cousin at Yale or Holyoke 
and see if its not appreciated. Buy 
it for the family and give the kids a 
treat. Read it yourself and laugh up 
your sleeve at the rest of the world.
You have three weeks to think 
about this, but when Puppet appears, 
buy at once. The early bird catches 
the worm. Remember that he who 
laughs last is the dumbest. Buy your 
Puppet early!
Italy and the party in power are to
day facing a parliamentary crisis, 
such as many other countries have 
undergone of late, due to a growing 
estrangement of Mussoline and his 
policy of intolerance and violence. 
The first test vote came last Saturday 
on the Premiers foreign policy, after 
four days of listless debating, in 
which the leader of the Fascist! was 
upheld 315 to G. But even with this 
seeming great victory the battle is 
just ahead, and probably will come on 
the discussion of the governments 
internal policiesparticularly the 
censuring of the partys failures to 
prevent and punish the sporodic epi
sodes of violence, such as marked the 
Armistice Day celebrations. While 
Mussolini at present can. apparently, 
muster enough votes to sustain his 
position, the real danger lies in the 
fact that if a sufficient number of 
deputies should join the opposition 
and boycott the Parliament, the Pre
mier would not have enough to form 
a quorum. There were only 341 
deputies participating in last Satur
days voting, and 33S are necessary 
for a quorum, so that it would be 
relatively easy for a few members to 
paralyze Parliament. Mussolini would 
in that instance be confronted with 
the dilemma of either resigning or 
dissolving. Parliament, and facing the 
uncertainty of a re-election.
* - + *
The International Opium Confer
ence at Geneva has practically come 
to a halt, when the Japanese bolted 
the conference, due to what they con
sidered to be insulting and insinuat
ing remarks made to them by the 
British delegates concerning the use 
of opium import certificates. Back 
in 1909 the first step was taken in the 
Shanghai Conference towards the 
solving of the international trading in 
opium and again in 1912, at the Hague 
Conference, where an ineffective pro
gram was drafted, but which might 
have been patched into efficiency, had 
the war not diverted our attention. In 
this last conference, sponsored by the 
League, Wellington Koo of China in
troduced a resoultion limiting the im
portation of opium to strictly medical 
and scientific purposes. But, be
cause opium is such a source of 
revenue to the various producing 
countries it was flatly voted down, 
and theroAvith arose the discussion 
between Japan and IjJngland on means 
of limiting its importation.
The United States is represented at 
the conferonce by five men, headed by 
Stephen G. Porter. The American 
proposal will be one of practically 
cutting down the export shipments on 
a basis of percentage allotments. 
This involves dollcato questions of 
sovereignity of nations and of deter
mining amouts of production, but can 
it be accomplished? Wo can feol 
that we have done something to ad
vance world and Christian progress.
* * *
Meeting this week In New York are 
the representatives of the four big 
railroads In the Eastthe Now York 
Central. Baltimore & Ohio, Nickel 
Plato and the Pennsylvaniato dis
cuss the proposed merger of linos. 
The Pennsy officials have fought tills 
move bitterly, and are going to the 
conference with that attitude, but it 
Is to bo doubted whether llioy can 
block the move,1 hecauso of tlio grow
ing strongth of the other throe linos, 
and the assurance that the Intor-Stato 
Commerce Commission and Iho Gov
ernment are back of it.
GIRLS MUSICAL CLUBS 
ABOUT TO OPEN SEASON
The Girls Musical CIbs have start
ed in what they hope to be their 
most successful year. Two splendid 
rehearsals a week are held under 
the competent direction of Mr. Al
fred Johnson, also director of the 
Mens' Glee Club.
Interest is alive in both Stringers 
and Glee Club, and those that par
ticipate seem enthusiastic in each 
endeavor.
AH are looking forward to the con
certs of the season. Amy Glassford, 
manager, has been corresponding 
with numeros cities and suburbs ad
joining this city and hopes very soon 
to have several trips arranged.
The possibility of a combined con
cert with the Mens Musical Clubs 
on one of their eastern trips is 
pending. If any Clan member in the 
various cities are interested in book
ing a concert for the Girls' Musical 
Clbs, the manager would appreciate 
any information sent her. We guar
antee an interesting musical pro
gram as well as worthwhile specialty 
numbers.
SONG BOOK STAFF TO
GIVE PRIZE FOR MARCH
quainted with experienced men in 
their prospective branches of work. 
The Carnegie chapter of the Society 
of Industrial Engineers was one of 
the first student chapters to be or
ganized, obtaining their charter in 
the spring of 1922.
(Continued From Page One.) 
dollars to the writer of the composi
tion that is accepted.
The contest is open now. ft will 
close on December 18, tl\e day before 
the Christmas Vacation, and the Com
mittee hopes to have a number of 
snappy, martial, and appropriate con
tributions by that time. The.names of 
the judges of the contest will be an
nounced sometime in the future. Mark 
youthe Kilties need a new march, 
and it is up to you to supply one 
and win the five dollars.
The Musical Clubs have begun their i 
season. Last Friday evening GO mem-i 
hers of this organization were trans-j 
ported to Edgewood, where they gave 
a very interesting concert at the High 
School. The audioiium was filled 
which is something to consider as a 
complimentand during the dance 
which followed, remarks were passed 
about which showed that the hearers 
were not offended. For a first con
cert. it was a success, but there is 
room for improvement in both clubs 
which can come only through prac
tice.
Departing from the accepted custom of excusing a victorious team 
from practice after a game, the regu
lar Sunday rehearsals were hold by 
each component of the organization, 
and the entire program was re-hashed 
to suit the wills of the respective 
directors. Director A1 Johnson was 
pleased with the showing, but. with 
reservations! He said the diction was 
poor, the attention was not what lie 
would like to have it be, and the 
singing had no colorby which we 
think he meant that there was no 
graduation! He strove desperately, 
however, at the rehearsal to under-1 
stand the words, and to instill some 
idea of coloration into the men.
Director Kovack was also pleased 
with the performance, but he was a 
little more considerate with the res
ervations than was the director of the 
Glee Club. I-Ie said the Mandolin club 
did good work. We think that if any
one could have observed him during 
the proceeding rehearsals, and during 
the concert it would have been obvi
ous that the work was reflected, for 
if there was ever a musical jumping 
jack with a baton, it would have boon 
eclipsed by the movements of Steve" 
Kovack. More power to him.
Bids for concerts are coming In 
from all sides, East, Wost, and Buf
falo. Manager Lundquist admits, how
ever, that ho would bo very grateful 
to anyone who will arrange a concert 
in any nearby auditorium with satis
factory terms which may be obtained 
by application to the manager. Local 
concerts are the big things for this 
part of the season, for they holp swell 
the crowd for tlio Home Concert next 
March.
Revise System For 
Scholarship Award
Change Interfraternity Cup 
Competition Rules
According to an announcement 
made :by Dean Tarbell at the last 
meeting of the Interfraternity Coun
cil, a change in the method of de
termining the standing of the fratern
ities in the annual competition for 
the Interfraternity Scholarship Cup 
will go into effect for 1924-25. The 
change was recently made by the 
Cup Committee of the Faculty Club, 
which is the donor of the trophy.
The old procedure was to divide 
the total number of quality points 
earned by the entire eligible mem
bership of a fraternity by the num
ber of such members. This plan 
worked a hardship on the fraternity 
which had an unusual number of 
short schedule men for any given 
year, as, owing to lack of clerical 
assistance, it was not possible (to pro 
.rate the quality points of so large a 
group as approximately 500 fratern
ity men.
This objection will now disappear 
.under the new rating method, by 
which the sum of the quality points 
earned by the entire eligible member
ship of a fraternity will be divided 
by the sum of the schedule units car
ried iby said membership.
As before, only initial grades are 
considered. For the purpose of this 
competition a subject dropped is 
counted as a failure in that subject, 
and a student who Is dropped, or who 
withdraws for any reason, is counted 
I as a failure. The status of all na
tional fraternity rnen coming from 
other institutions is that of regular 
members, .whether affiliated or not.
'On would think you had tlio idea 
that athletes are t.luj only ones work) 
ing For The Good of Carnogio.
Such was the remark addressed to 
us the other day, and wo hasten to 
correct the impression thus formed 
under tlio. fear that it may be wide
spread.
Wluit is, and what is not, For The 
Good of Carnegie? Well, in the first 
place it is much moro easy to enumer
ate the things that are not beneficial 
to tlio namo of our Alma Mater than 
it is to list the more subtle and strong 
inlluonces for good, but we will try to 
mix them up a bit.
In general, any activity of any sort 
that tends to promote good and clean 
fellowship within the school is bene
ficial. Among these are found not 
only the athletic and lion-athletic ac 
tivities. but also scholastic achieve
ments. It is not for the Good of Car
negie to have students whose future 
is bright and whose minds are cap
able expelled from school due to lack 
of scholarship, be it social, athletic, 
or lion-athletic activities or just a 
general scarcity of activity on the 
part of the individual, that gives rise 
to the Ink.
Recently our humorous contempo
rary. THE CARNEGIE PUPPET, 
dropped into a serious vein and nomi
nated for the hall' of fame the whole 
football team. In general, we second 
the nomination, but we also wish to 
nominate the innumerable Carnegie 
men and women who are fighting a 
less spectacular struggle against fi
nancial odds to stay in school. Wo 
wish to liom inn to tho assistant man
agers of the athletic teams, tho mu
sical club men, tlio publications men. 
the scholarship winners, tho. oh. 
A\hai. s the uso?there are so many
Day Lecture Will Be 
Given in Union Dec. 3
Illustrated Talk on Causes of 
Volcanic Action
DAVIS: Thanksgiving woelc prosonts an opportunity for tlio atudonl 
body to seo nn oxcollont bill at this 
.theater. In addition to tho roguliir 
matinoo and evening performances, 
there will ho a 4:80 Spoclal Thanks
giving Day Program.
Cocil Loan and Cleo Mayflold will 
bo hoard In songs of various nature, 
some comic, and some tuneful, under 
the caption of "Tho Blushing Bride.
Charles Kellogg, tho California Na
turalist and Bird Lovor, will enter
tain with "bird voices" and tho "daneing flamo. This latter Is a blade of 
flro which Is controlled by tho songs 
of tho birds.
"The Tost" is aulrama In two words, 
presented by a company of twelve,
A1 Lytle II and Carloton Maoy will 
plvo tho Civil \Var days eoiyody, Old 
Cronies. .lay C. Fllppon will do a 
"hlack-faco" skit undor the head "Tho 
Ham What Am, Frick and Pope from 
Keith's Now York Hippodrome will 
perform on real ice. Boyd Senior will 
prosont tho "one man band." Tho Six 
American Belfords will do sensational 
acrobatics.
SHUBERT-PITT: Aftor a year In 
Now York, Edith Taliaferro will head 
a super cast In tho presentation of 
Gilbert Emerys play Tarnish." There 
will be a Thanksgiving Matinoo at 
this theatre.
As a matter offocal interest It may 
he stated that in tho play which \n 
coming to tho Alvin next week, thero 
is occasion to(use a college yoll! That 
has little significance as a fact, but 
when modified a bit, so that it reads 
Carnegie Tech Yell, it arouses the 
interest of the students.
Mary Skurkey, who graduated frq^n 
the Drama Department last Juno, ap
peared with the George Behan Com
pany at the Grand last week. Miss 
Miss Skurkay played the part ofTrina, in the presentation of the court 
scene, which was Inserted in the pic
ture presentation to add novelty to 
the charming story.
We, editorially, wish to extend our 
thanks to the Managers of the down 
town theaters who have so kindly con
sented to cooperate in the conducting 
of this column, which, we hope, will 
be an aid to the students in making 
up their scholastic minds concerning 
the choice of theaters for their at
tendance. We hope to make this col
umn serve the purpose of advance 
paper on the coming attractions at 
the several theaters.
GORDAN H. EISENHART 
ENGINEERING 25, DEAD
The World We Live In
It you find the world dull and de
pressing It Is because you yourself are 
dull and depressing. Give yourself u 
good shaking. Try the cheerful tack 
and the world will be a different plnjP 
Laughter and courage are the lorilc.- 
you need.Exchange.
FIRST SHILLING OF YEAR
APPEARS THIS WEEK
(Continued From Page One.) 
himself. If you have any literary ten
dencies which have heretofore Iain 
dormant, let them be realized in the 
next issue of the Shilling.
Not all of us can be contributors, 
but everyone can be a subscriber. 
Buy a Shilling, and see what meritor
ious articles the students of Carnegie 
can write.
The friends and classmates of Gor
don H. Elsenliurt were shocked to 
hear of his sudden death Sunday 
afternoon, Novembor 23, at tho Passavant Hospital from septlclaemla,
Mr. Elsenlmrt was a member of 
the class of. '25, of Science School. In 
tho cvourse of Mechanical Eng. Ho had 
been III but one woek and hi sud
den death came as a thunderbolt to 
ills host of friends.
He was a member of the Iota Sig
ma Delta fraternity, Sine Nomine 
Club, and a member of the Kiltie 
Band for three years, all of whom 
extend Iheir slncerest sympathy.
Opena 66,000,000 Oyatera
One oyster opener claims that he 
has opened 00.000.000 of the bivalves 
In the 75 years he has been operating.
Tuesday evening December 2, is tho 
date sot for tho next of tho series of 
lectures presontod undor tho auspices 
of tho Carnogio Institute of Technol
ogy, President. Baker announces. Tho 
illustrated lecture, "S'omo Causes of 
Volcanic Activity, is to ho prosontod 
Dr. Arthur L. Day, Director of the 
Geographical Laboratory at tlio Car
nogio Institute of Washington, D. (!. 
For this locturo, which will begin at 
8:30 p. m. in tho Union no card of 
admission will bo required.
Dr. Day, a widely known physicist, 
graduated from Yalo with an A. B. dothat wo cannot, enumerate them.
It should not be thought, however, 
that all Carnegie men and women are 
automatically worthy candidates for 
this hall. Wo all know that we havo 
hero hundreds of men and women who 
continually accept and never help In 
any work. Those are the ones, who 
think that The TARTAN is torriblo; 
that tho PUPPET is awful; that the 
football team is a bunch of dumbbells, 
allowed in school only on account of 
their football playing ability; that 
fraternity men are all toa hounds; 
and that all tho co-eds are wild. They 
are the ones that come homo from 
W. & J. and toll the neighbors about 
the performance in the front of tho 
Carnogio section of a couple of inebri
ated-------------men rather than about the
wonderful fight of tho team against 
odds. Yos. and they aro tlio ones 
who conduct these performances at 
the annual Mardi Gras and on other 
occasions.
There is no uso crying over these 
people. They aro too certain of them
selves for us to bother about, them. 
Every college has them. Lot. us rather 
get. together and recognize that work
ing for tlio Good of Carnogio is not 
confined to any little sphere of ac
tivity, however spectacular that may 
ho, but is something which most of 
us are doing most of the time.
Yours, for tho Good of Caruegie, 
(not Tech).
groe in 1S92, and two years later re
ceived ills Pli. D. degree. Throe uni
versities Groningen, Columbia and 
Princeton conferred on him tho hon
orary degree of Sc. D. From 1894 to 
1897 he Avas an Instructor of physics 
at Yalo. Ho spent three years of serv
ice on scientific work In Germany, and 
afterwards was appointed physical 
geologist with tlio U. S. Geological 
Survoy, where ho remained for six 
years. Dr. Day was appointed to his 
prosont position in .1907.
GAMBOL COMMITTEE
HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
appointed to carry out tho danoo and 
program tills yoar: Senior class, Ii3.
L. Smith, D. K, Mims, J. (!. Good: 
Junior class, It. 1) Cllll, D. V. Boodo. 
C. IT. Knappenborgor; Sophomore 
class, ,1. N. Tilbroolc, S. Van Vochton; 
non-dagree, F. (). Duncan.
Tho Slngor Pen ana Gift Shop In 
tho Jenkins Arondo will give you rea
sonable prlooo on calling oardo, dancc 
programu, favors, school plnn, rings, 
pillow topn, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a batter 
ono.Adv.
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazol BT49 Near Forbes
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dlthrldge and Bayard Strcota 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pastor.
Bible Class ...............................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A.M. 
League of Youth at 0:80 P. M.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde 8treet, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 1.1 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, S I. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Damo
TOAKE N-DGAR MGA'SN KAH I LGPA'C AL 'UPYALT
Vythlas
hR eAGNLUiNiPK UsUE PSC CA sUKNPUPUUt R' RPUA lAUUC LAG KAIc u--E nnu- thlni/t"
Dauum
TMPP GPUe-NrfGAoA RNU bPUoA U'A RsAa NUsU tPUPA'UIA fIPPIPU KAI PUAGGAlNSC R''U PUNUe-UcT
IVOL.XN
re Jiiislcr dntiI/igpendi
17 trailir1 f
You owe one to Yourself
Havk you ever considered the many advantages of ? 
portable typewriter in college and in all your after life?
Ask any upper classman who uses one, and he will 
give you some valuable pointers.
And here are six reasons why you should choose 
the Remington Portable:
Durability anil Reliability 
Compactness am! Portability 
Four-Raw Standard Keyboard 
Hast of Operation 
Healthful IVorb/I/ways 
Universal Service
Price, complete with case, #60. Easy payment 
terms if desired.
Call in and let us show you its many decisive ad
vantages,
CHESTER V. BUTLER 
Care Carnegie Tech Post Office 
J. A. DOUGHERTY 
Care Carnegie Tech Post Office or 
254 Belleflcld Avenue
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Remington Portable
THE RECOQNJZED LEADER  IN SALES AND POPULARITY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 25, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&PLAID ATHLETICS&
NOTRE DAME WILL 1 
BATTLE TARTANS
ONE BATTLE WE WON, ANYWAY
Fighting Irish Considered the 
Greatest Grid Team in 
the Country
Next Saturday when Carnegie Tech 
meets the Fighting Irish on. Forbes 
Field it will write "Finis on a very 
satisfactory season. t'his will be the 
third appearance of this famous team 
on Forbes Field. The first two in
vasions resulted in victories for them, 
the first 19 to 0, and the one last year 
26 to 0. This year they are again the 
decided favorite since they have not 
lost a game and have vanquished 
some of the best teams in the realm 
of football. They opened their sea
son by defeating Lombard 40 to 0, 
then Wabash fell before then 36 to 
0. The Army was humbled by a 13 
to 7 score and in a close game 
Princeton was taken over 12 to 0. 
Wisconsin was trimmed 34 to 3. 
The powerful Nebraska team was 
trounced 34 to 6, and then along 
came Northwestern who was con
ceded not even an outside chance, 
and held them to ascore of 13 to 
G, with the Irish on the long end.
Notre Dame boasts of not one, but 
three teams with very, little to 
choose between them. The outstand
ing feature, however, is the backfield 
combination which has by its spec
tacular playing earned the cognomen 
The Four Horsemen-of Notre Dame. 
The men comprising this lllustrous 
band are Jim Crowley, Elmer Laj'- 
de, Don Miller, and last but not least 
the genius who guides the team 
Stuhldrelier. The stengtfy of the line 
must not be .overlooked for, without 
them to clear the path the lumina
ries of the backfield would not be 
able to score as they have. Adam 
Walsh, a fighting Irishman, is the 
strength in the center of the line 
not only on the offensive but also on 
the defensive. At right guard Noble 
Kizer in spite of his light frame adds 
materially to the success of every 
play. Wibel, Joe Bach, and Rip Mil
ler also in the line, make it the fast 
charging, hard hitting machine that 
it is. In addition they have two ends 
protecting the terminals in such a 
fashion that the opp'ocition finds the 
going very difficudt. Collins and 
Huntinger are the men who hold this 
position.
The second and third teams have 
also made quite a reputation for 
themselves in the games in which 
they have participated. They are 
credited with being as fast as the 
first team and lacking only in experi
ence. The second team generally 
starts the game while the first sits 
on the bench and watches the oppo
nents in action. The first team 
then goes in and provides the score 
necessary to win. After this has 
been accomplished the third team 
goes in and assures victory by keep
ing the scores in their favor.
The game on Saturday will be 
played by two teams coached in a 
high grade brand of deceptive foot
ball. Intricate plays such as aro 
rarely seen in this district will be 
served to the spectators in abund
ance and the thrills which are a 
natural result will have the support
ers of the teams satisfied that their 
money was well spent. It will be 
tiie final appearance of the "Four 
Horsemen and seventeen others of 
the Notre Dame-team. They realize
Courtesy Pittsburgh Post.
that it is their last game and they 
wili put all they have into the game. 
Captain Newman will be playing his 
last gu.ne for Carnegie and all know 
that he will do even better than he 
did in the Pitt game in which he 
rose to fame. Chet Hable and Alan 
Cass two of the mainstays in the 
line will also be playing their last 
game. Chet in spite of his small 
stature has played a game at right 
end that is beyond criticism. Cass at 
guard, has developed into an intelli
gent, crafty, powerful player, and the 
gains which were made through him 
are few indeed. This, their last 
game, should bring out the best 
brand of football that is in them.
The season has been full of un
expected upsets, and there is a 
chance that the Tartans will again 
rise to the occasion and defeat a 
team that has not yet been beaten. 
They defeated Pitt when they were 
not even conseded a chance. On 
Saturday they lost to the strong Ma
rine team by three points when it 
was expected that they would loose 
by twenty points or more. Perhaps 
their efforts will be rewarded by a 
smile from Dame Fortune Barring all 
injuries there is a chance. Who is 
prophet enough to foretell?
CROSS COUNTRY 
HAS FAIR SEASON
Outlook For Next Year Rosy 
Loss of Dykeman and 
Bright Hard Blow
SCHWAB GIVES INSPIRING
TALK CARNEGIE DAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
sary for wants, aiid to be constantly 
looking forward to something. For 
Success (credit acknowledged by fellow-men for good done to humanity, 
he said, select a goal and work toward 
it. Monetary success will surely fol 
low.
SASTLE CALLS MEN
AT LAST ASSEMLY
(Continued From Page 1)
Eva Spencer, accompanied by Stew
art Blackmore and A1 Johnson, sang 
several numbers. Hardy Albright' and 
John Gilbert sketched cartoons of well 
known campus personages. Of course, 
their work included likenesses or An
drew Carnegie, Obie Newman and 
Wally Steffen.
All Minetti called particular atten
tion to the Tartan yell. Although 
rather new, this yell will develop into 
a novel, yet effective addition to our 
cheers.
Smiles iit 
311 back, at
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWINGOUTFITS
at special iDrices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces a series of eight Sat
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.mmafter every meal
Cleanses month and teeth and aids digestion.
Relieves tbat overeaten feeling and acid mouth.
Its 1-a-s-t-i-n-g flavor satisfies the craving lor sweets.
Wrlgley*s Is double value in the benefit and pleasure It provides.
Sealed in it9 Parity 
Package.
The 1924 cross-country season pass
ed into history with the defeat of 
the strong Westminster team Satur
day before last. The season was not 
marked by any spectacular achieve
ment; Carnegie winning two out of 
the four meets run.
The biggest surprise of the season 
was the overwhelming defeat at the 
hands of Penn State. Dykeman was 
the only Carnegie runner able to 
keep the terrific pace set by the 
State team. The Pitt meet was 
unique in that both teams had been 
practicing over the same course, and 
thus were placed on cvon terms at 
the start. Dykemans' triumph over 
Ted Corbett of Pitt, was the feature 
of the race. The Carnegie team lost 
out, however, in the point totals.
Both Allegheny and Westminster 
fell before the Tnrtans by very 
close scores. These two races were 
run over the 'Schenley Park course, 
and in both instances exceedingly 
fast time was made.
"Howdy Dykeman, the captain of 
the team, won three out of the four 
meets and led the rest of the team, 
with the exception of Jack Bright, by 
a good margin. Bright maintained 
the second position 011 tho team 
throughout the season, being fol
lowed by Peck and De Jesus. Himes, 
Ewing, Lockhart, Foller, Lustonburg, 
Palumbo, Paul, Gill, Patterson, Kolloy and McKinney made up the 
rest of the squad. Bill Kimmell, ono 
of last years star runners was 
forced to quit the squad in midsea
son on account of illnoss.
The prospects for next season aro 
encouraging in spite of the fact that 
Dykeman and Bright will be lost 
through graduation, as the present 
Freshman team contains several lu
minaries who should step right into 
the front, ranks of the varsity next 
year and in addition there are quite 
a few varsity men capable of much 
faster time than they displayed this 
season.
The Freshman team was a bit 
more successful than the varsity; 
beating the Pitt Freshman, Sacred 
Heart High School and Shady side 
Academy, while the Penn State 
Freshman were their only conquer
ors. Captain Crawford, Hoby and 
Kersch were the leaders, while Sponseller, Fry, Reubens, Jacobs and 
Reeves showed up well and were imI proving towards the seasons close.
| The efficient managing of Carey 
| Proctor and his corps of assistants 
headed toy Ed. Wright and S. I. 
Owens contributed in a large meas
ure to the success of the varsity, 
wh"; Cur Colvin handled the affaiij of tt Freshman team.
On the Plaid ScreenL
J. F. CHRISTOFF
WHAT CHANCE DO WE HAVE?
Knute Rocknes famous Notre Dame thirty-threenot elevenwill meet 
Carnegie on Forbes Field next Saturday in the closing game of the season 
for our team. After reading the thrilling tales Written about Rocknes muchlieralded aggregation, a team that has been vanquishing all rivals through
out tho East and Mid-West during the past season, one would be led to be
lieve that the Tartans have absolutely no chance to defeat the wonder team, 
and that the best we can hope for is a low score. Douhtloss this opinion is 
shared by 99 prfr cent of the football fans, including Carnegie students and 
followers. Nearly everyone will go to Forbes Field next Saturday just to get 
a glimpse of the great Irish team in action, though they feel certain they 
know' what the outcome will be.
Wo do not wish to pose as prophets in this columnwe have not so far. 
But to our mind there is a possibility that the 99 per cent may bo duo for 
a big surprise. Northwestern, a team not rated any higher than is Carnegie, 
demonstrated that Notre Dame with its Four Horsemen can bo stopped, 
and stopped often. Modern football is 11. thing which cannot bo exactly fig
ured out mathomaticnlly beforehand. Tho "dope" has boon spilled too often 
this season to really count for much. Those days it is the team with the 
higher morale just before tho gamo which stands the better chance of win
ning. Carnogie has demonstrated that she can rise to the heights. Wo await 
with extreme interost the coming battle.
'DO YOU HAVE GOOD EYES 
AND NERVES? READ THIS
The RUlo Team ueeds men and 
needs them badly. If you have over 
done any shooting, or oven if you 
havent and aro interested, then come 
Up to the range on tho ~ top floor 
of tho Arts Building any afternoon 
after 8:30 p. m,. and Captain Lyons, 
the coach, will teach you the essen
tials.
Every one should have at least ono | 
actlv.ity in order to do his Alma 
Mater justice and there is 110 better 
way to make a minor C than by 
shooting on tho Rifle Team. It takes 
very little time and In fact, it is a 
pleasureable way to spend an hour 
or two after classes in the after
noon. | Most follows just waste that 
hour anyway so why not put it to 
some good use.
Tho Rifle Club Is a sub-organlzaUons of the team and the first inter
est is usually shown by joining tho 
club. It has held several interesting 
meetings this year already, mostly 
conducted to getting the club In run
ning order. The club holds smokors 
and other social functions which aro 
valuable to any student. Tho loe 
for the first years membership is 
$2.00 and $1.00 for each following 
year. This entitles tho member to 
.free use of tho range any afternoon 
except .Wednesday, which is re
served for the team, also It entitles 
him to the uso of tho rlfies and all 
the ammunition that ho cares to 
burn up.
Not enough stress can be laid, to 
tho fact hat the team needs more 
men. There Is to bo a match during 
tho week of Docembor (> with the 
University of Chicngo and more men 
are neodod before the match can be 
shot. Exporlenco Is not ossontlal 
if a man is interostod. This year 
offers more opportunities than over 
before slncc throe of tho lottor men 
of last year lmvo graduated, so come 
up' and surprise yoursolll on what you 
can do.
SWIMMING TEAM IS 
NOW IN THE MAKING
Coach Buchema is Working; 
Hard to Make Initial Team 
Representative
ABOUT TICKETS
Though requests for tickots luivo boon coming in vory fast the past fow 
weeks, Buddy Ovorend announces that thoro will still bo a chance to socuro 
some good seats this week for the Notro Dame game. All of tho second tier 
seats are already sold out, but quite a few soats aro avallahlo on tho first 
floor. Forbes Field is a largo place, and can accommodate many thousands 
of persons.
Indications point to a capacity crowd Saturday. Tho fact that tho groat 
Notre Dame team will not return to Pittsburgh In 1925 Is an added Incontlvo 
for football fans to soo tho contest this year. This gamo Is attracting a 
tremendous amount of Interest, not only in this section, but throughout. Penn
sylvania, Ohio and West Virginia.
A HEART-BREAKER
That is just what tho Marino gamo was. Tho Devil Dogs dosorvo all 
the credit in tho world for winning; they have a powerful team, and should 
have. But it was anybodys gamo, with tho breaks a docldlng factor. Person
ally, we fool tho Tartans should have won by ono touchdown, or at tho 
worst Should have emerged with a 3-8 tlo. It simply goos to show that you 
nover can tell what will happen.
"Cofne on, Rod, was an expression hoard frequently (hiring tho past 
week around Boss Munhalls hangout. It was a rolle of Mr. Laimhans 
theater party at tho Davis last Monday.
Donohoe and Krlstof suffered groat inconvonlonco at tho thoator. A 
man with a vory unpleasant odor of cod-fish or horrlng emanating from Ills 
clothes sat directly In front of our two horoos. Ho should at. least have 
secured a seat In 'peanut lieavon, If ho came to tho show at all,r romarked 
Benny.
Wo hopo Casss ankle will ho In good shape for tho gamo Saturday. 
Is a tower of strength 011 tho line.
He
Bastan and Hable can easily ho oxousod for tho fumbling against tho 
Marinos. The wot ball was hard to hold, and in addition tho Dovll Dogs 
sure did tackle viciously.
The boys lament that they did not soe tho miniature battle between 
halves. "Stunts like that Is one big feature at tho gamos wo miss," said 
one of the players.
A great many of the students with whom wo have conversed on the sub
ject and who reside in the Tri-Stato district declare they aro going homo 
Wednesday night but will return Saturday in time for the Notre Dame game. 
"We cannot miss this game, they say.
COUNCIL FAVORS SATURDAY
NIGHT DANCES IN UNION
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
ell would suporviso ovory dance hold' 
In tho Union. The proceeds of all 
dancos hold by campus organizations 
would go to said organizations, whllo 
tho proceeds of all other Saturday 
night dances would go to tho Student 
Concll treasury.
Official action 011 tho now plan will 
ho taken at a conference between 
tho Studont Council apodal commit* 
toe, tlvo Doan of Womon and tho 
Doan of Men.
Craig Restaurant
Tho placo whoro all tho follows
HAT
412 CRAIG STREET 
------------------ ----------.4
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Oconiilonn.
All now and up to dato.
ED 3CHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
GOO Stnto Thoator Building 
335 Fifth Avonuo, Pltnburgh, Pn.
Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Wo Do Shingle Bobbing. 
Hats Cleaned. Shoos Shined. 
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors.
When tho first practice of Carne
gies swimming team was called , last 
Monday, November 17, twenty aspir
ants responded to Coach Beukemas 
request, ifor candidates. This group 
included both varsity and freshman 
material, and although at the present 
time not'hlng much can be predicted 
there appears to be great possibili
ties for tho future.
Wo must bear in find that Carne
gies first swimming team is in tho 
process of making, and usally tho 
first unit of au> thing is always the 
hardest; after which the rest comes 
easy. There will probably be noth
ing startling done, nor any records 
broken by this our first aquatic 
team, but it will be a start, and that 
Is why a few of the Carnegie stu
dents are attending practice evei^ 
Monday,, Wednesday and Friday at 
5:30, in order to insure that start.
The task of forming a team to rep
resent tho Plaid along with its other 
athletic teams Is going to be no 
snap. Coach Chris Beulcema realizes 
this and has put his heart and souli 
Into the task, knowing that It is 
going to be a long, hard pull and 
looking forward to the day when ho 
can place a team In tho tank that 
will be a crodlt to the Institute. Ho 
is, however, looking for more men 
and ho has made a special request 
that all men, who have any swim, 
mlng ability at all report to tho 
swimming pool on any of tho three 
aftornoons mentlonod above.
After throo practices wore hold last 
woolc Coach Beulcema reported that 
favorable progress was being made. 
Thoro is a wealth of Freshman ma
terial on hand and this Is vory gra
tifying, Inasmuch as tho Freshmen 
and Sophomores, In this caso, will bo 
tho onos ivho will profit and dovoloi 
most. Thoro aro, however, a fow 
likely looking upperclassmen who 
have had past exporlenco In swim
ming competition.
Among those who aro showing tlio 
host, form now nra Charllo McGrail, 
a oraolc broast-strolco swimmer; Mollouauor In tho dives, Turner In tho 
sprints. For tho Freshman loam 
Follnmiboo and Ross In tho sprints 
and Fort In tho back strokes. This 
also gives another opportunity for 
managers and Froshnnn, Sophomorcn 
and Juniors aro asked to coino out.
WELCOME TO A LL 
THE OLD AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBKS near CRAIG
Our Intelligence test for this week, time allowedone minute:
If................................... should .................... Notre .................... Thanksgiving
recess .................... not .................... Monday.__________________________ I
CAENG CAIULDAM
Fifth Avcnuo Boot Shop 
.near 40th Street, New YorkM
rDhe flavor lasts I
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men's Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
TARTANS DROP TOUGH
BATTLE TO QUANTICO
(Continued From Patre One.l 
Carnegie making 12 to Quantico's 8. 
Two Plaid placement kicks were 
missed while the Marines also miss
ed one. Both teams played good 
football, in fact, prettier football has 
not been seen on Forbes Field this 
year. It would be very difficult to cite 
any one fan as the individual star on 
the Carnegie team for every one of 
the boys played stellar ball and were 
in thSre fighting every minute.
The lineup:
CARNEGIE0. MARINES3.
Goodwin ...............L. E.......... Sanderson
Kristof ..................L.T........... Liversodge
Anderson .............L. G.................. Cercek
Manby .....................C....................... Biilley
Cass ........................R. G.............. McHenry
Yoder ....................P.T........................ Hunt
Bastian .................Q. B................... Groves
liable .....................R. E.................. Farrell
Newman...............L. II............................................................ Henry
Wertenberger . .R. II..................McQuaid
Beede .....................F. B........................ Neal
Score by quarters:
Marines...................... 0 0 0 33
Substitutions  For Carnegie: Mefort for Goodwin, Guthrie for Case, 
Donohue for Bastian, Bastian for Don
ohue. For Marines: Larson f^r Bailey, 
McMalns for Groves, Brower for Hunt, 
Levinsky ior Cercek, Wegmore for 
Liversedge, Groves for McMains. Goal 
from field  Groves. Referee  Very 
(State). UmpireMoffat (Princeton). 
Field JudgeSlack. Head linesman 
Blom. Time of quarters15 minutes.
RIFLE RANGE EQUIPPED 
WITH MOVABLE TARGETS
The Rifle Range of the R. O. T. C 
is being constructed under the di 
rection of Col. Fairley, superintendent 
of grounds and buildings. The range, 
when it is completed, will have two 
stories. On the first story there will 
be 10 firing points with a target 50 
feet distane. Two of these firing 
points are also arranged so as to en
able a distance of 75 feet to be shot 
i over. The second story will be 8, 50- 
foot firing points. This upper plat
form, or second story, is reached by 
an easy flight of steps.
Instead of the delay and danger in 
cident with the present system which 
makes it necessary for firing to be 
stopped while the marksmen go down 
to look at their targets, the new sys
tem is based on a common .trolley 
and pully wheel device. The R. O. 
T. C. Is very much Indebted to the 
officers of the Spang-Chalfant Com
pany Rifle Club, who have loaned this 
Institution samples of their pulleys 
and trolleys from which to make our 
own.
The range will be fenced In so that 
it can bo locked. Lockers and cup
boards for .rifles and gun cleaning 
materials will be included. It Is ex
pected that there will be accommoda
tion sufficient not only for the It. O. 
T. C., but for the Womens Rifle Club 
and for any overflow that might ensue 
from the fast growing Carnegie Rifle 
Club.
This week the R. O. T. C. received 
a shipment of 10 new 22-calibre Rem
ington rifles. The old equipment con
sisting of 20 Springfield rifles, has 
been sent to Springfield Arsenal, and
t is expected that 20 new Remington 
ifles will be sent In exchange.
Due to the lack of proper rifles and 
of range facilities, the R. O. T. C. has 
not been accepting any challenges 
from other colleges. The Carnegie 
Rifle Team, however, which is rapidly 
reaching top form under the efforts 
of Manager Kelly, has accepted a 
number of challenges. Freshmen who 
are desirous of competing for posi
tions on the team are urged to come 
up to the Arts School rifle gallery on 
Monday, Tuesday, Thursday or Fri
day afternoons at 4:30.
Permanent Exhibit Shop 
JENKINS ARCADE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
MAY MOVE INDUSTRIES
CLUB ROOM TO 124 C, IND.
(Continued From Page One.) 
their equipment could be moved into 
Room 12.
The Seng Book staff has its equip
ment and supplies in tho Alpha Tau; 
room and uses part of The Carnegie 
Tartan office.
Tho Technical Journal has obtain
ed temporary quarters under Room 
200, Science, but cold move into 
Room 12.
Tho Carnogio Puppet offlco, too, 
could bo moved from Its present un
satisfactory location In tho Central 
Building Into Room 12, Industries.
Room 12 Is quite large and would 
satisfactorily accommodate tho four 
publications named. The Carnogio 
Tartan would then have free and un
tram moled uso of Its own office, whllo 
Alpha Tau could uso Its room for its 
own purposes.
The only thing necessary to make 
the plan effective is to obtain a class 
room which can be used in place of 
121 C, Industries, which would be 
tho location of the Industries Club 
Room under the new plan.
Invest Your Savings in Bonds
For personal Investment them nro 
few things that ofTcr mi many ad
vantage! Lo good bonds. Safety, 
income anil marketability aro tho 
factors that measure invcutment 
valueo and In these rcupcctu good 
bonds aro rated high.
Invest your money In bonds. 
Whether you can afford ono or 
many, you will find hero Intelligent 
Interest In your requirements and 
a sincere desire to provide Invest 
rnenta that will fit your purticulur needs.
And remember, you can buy good 
bonds In denominations as low as ?100.
Mellon National Bank1> i ttsbufrdh, Pa.J'-* .<+
M
The Slickest Coat 
on. the Campus!
<Slanula^(^huknt
No well dressed college man is without one. Its the original, correct slicker and theres nothing as smart or sensible for rough weather and chilly days.
Made qf famous yellow waterproof oiled fabric. Hal nilround strap on 
collar and clastic at wrlit-bund*.
Clasp-closing atyle
Button-closing style
Stamp the correct name in your 
memory, and buy no other. The 
Standard 8tudent" In made only 
by the Standard Oiled Clothing Co., 
New York. Slip one ou at
ALL GOOD DEALERS
jOONEBAT LWB,YBUS
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
N

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE) FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 25, 1924
I IALUMNI PAGE&
MARY SKURKAY IN 
NOVEL PLAY IDEA
With Beban and His Unique 
Troupe of Players From 
New'York
When George Beban arrived in 
Pittsburgh last week with his comcompany of twenty-four players to be 
seen in person in the Grand in con
nection with the photo play, "The 
Greatest Love of All, he intro
duced as a member of his company 
Mary Skurkay of Monessen who re
ceived her dramatic education in 
this city. She is a graduate of the 
Drama School of Carnegie. Her ap
pearance in The Greatest Love of 
All, and in person on the stage with 
Mr. Beban in the act which relates 
a portion of the story is her first 
professional engagement.
Miss Skurkay>was the valedictorian 
of her class in the Monessen High 
School. She entered Carnegie in 
1920 and studied here four years, be
ing graduated last spring, receiving 
the degree of Bachelor of Arts. Of 
course, like most graduates of the 
Carnegie Drama School, she headed 
straight for New York upon the com
pletion of her course, believing that 
in the metropilitan center of the 
theatrical industry her greatest op
portunities were to be found. She 
had scarcely arrived in New York 
and had made applications to the va
rious producers when Mr. Beban met 
her, was impressed with- her type, 
sincerity of purpose and with the evi
dence of her training at Carnegie 
gave her a role in the picture and an 
important role upon the stage.
During the course of her school 
work here, Miss Skurkay appeared 
with the Theater Guild of Pitts
burgh, under the direction of Theo
dore Vickman, and she portrayed 
Joy  in the pageant Joy of the 
Lanterns in the 1924 annual fine 
arts ball.
ALPHA RHO CHI INSPECTS
NATCO TILE PLANT IN OHIO
On Thursday, November 20, the 
members of the Alpha Rho Chi fra
ternity were the guests of the Na
tional Fireproofing Company on an 
inspection tour of their entire plant 
at East Palestine, Ohio. The trip 
occupied the whole day, a wonderful 
luncheon &eing served at the plant. 
Transportation to and fro was also 
free.
The guests were revealed the mys
teries of the plant by the superinten
dent and directors themselves. The 
trip was the best ever taken and 
very educational. Every detail in 
the 'manufacture of Natco hollow tile, 
its uses and importance in everyday 
building was explained.
The Alpha Rho Chi at Carnegie 
is the Polyklitos chapter of the pro
fessional architectural fraternity.
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
| evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
| Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
\ by appointment,
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
rENUS 
PENCILS
C&e laiycst tiling Qaclify penal in the mild
TjX)R the Btndent or prof., the superb VENUS out-rivals all for perfect pencil work. 
17 black degrees3 copying. 
American Lead 
Pencil Co.
22Q Fifth Ave.
NcwY
Write for booklet on 10CAR Pcncils and 10CAR IE0GSTLSCU0O Fechanical Pencils
LimEMIBEMG
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
The ULSTER
Yo BIG, full cut, rugged 
coat to ward off Winter blasts. The rich woolens, 
both imported and domes
tic, endow them with distinction as well as comfort.
395 t0 5(4950 
nat LUXENBERG  bros.
HY, PGLBODBM2 50D 9LG4
I NEXT SHOWING AT3 WILLIAM PENN HOTEL
I DECEMBER 12th and 13th
Our atyle memo, book tent free on request
On the evening of November 7, a 
little group of wilful men and one 
woman met on the banks of the Ohio 
and brought back to life, The Cincin
nati Clan of dear old Tech.
Mr. J. W. Batman, the Asbestos 
King, was elected president; Mr. G. 
C. Smith, he of the long-draw-out 
anatomy and the quick wit, vice presi
dent, and Mrs. L. V. Bohannon, secretary-treasurer.
Ways and means of furthering the 
interests of Carnegie and of the Clan 
were discussed, and it was decided to 
invite all Tecliites in the neighboring 
cities, as well as Cincinnati, to join 
the Clan.
The next meeting is to be held at 
the home of the secretary, 419 Tor
rence road, East Walnut Hills, on 
November 29. An attempt will be 
made to listen in on the broadcasting 
of the Notre Dame game. If you live 
in, or near the Queen City, make it a 
point to be there about 1:30, Cincin
nati time.
M.M. Alumnae to Hold 
Bridge Party on Dec. 3
Reservations in By Nov. 28 
Good Time Assured
A meeting of the Buffalo Clan was 
held Wednesday, November 19, 1924, 
at the office of William T. Spann, 52 
West Chippewa street. Plans were 
arranged for an Old-Time Stag Party 
(pretzel meeting), Tuesday, December 
2, 1924, 8 p. m., at the Scalp and Blade 
club house, 281 Parkside avenue. A 
few minutes of the evening will be 
taken to complete arrangements for a 
joint Cornell-Carnegie Luncnfcon at 
the Statler Hotel, Friday, December 
19. Any Carnegie men here at that 
time are invited.
Anna Cote Dodds, general chairman 
of the Alumnae Card Party, which is 
' to be given in the Recreation Hall of 
the Maragret Morrison College on 
Wednesday evening, December 3, at 8 
oclock, by the Alumnae Association 
| of Margaret Morrison, announces that 
reservations must be in by November 
2S. It would be advisable to call Anna 
Dodds immediately at her home, Hiland 0754. The tables will be 2 each 
and ?1 for couples.
The association promises all 
alumnae who attend this function a 
most enjoyable evening, and urge that 
all who can will avail themselves of 
this opportunity to corned back and 
meet old friends and acquaintances.
In answer to numerous queries, the 
chairman announces that this party is 
for Margaret Morrison Alumnae, their 
friends, husbands or sweet hearts. So, 
no one has any good excuse to remain 
at home on the evening of Decem
ber 3.
Mrs. Dodds asks that anyone who is 
willing to loan card tables for the 
party to please notify her as soon as 
possible. Mark the tables, write 
your name and address, the tables 
will be called for and delivered by 
truck.
ANNUAL CARNEGIE 
CELEBRATION HELD
Schwab, Speaker From 1913 
Addresses Large Body 
Friends Present
Carnegie Graduate 
Gains Wide Fame
-----------
M. W. Pohlmeyer is Making 
Good in Architecture
DR. CLARK TO TALK ON 
NEW AMERICAN DRAMA
An invitation is extended by the 
Pittsburgh Center of the Drama 
League for a lecture by Barrett H. 
Clark, which will be given at 8:15 
o'clock on Tuesday evening, Novem
ber 25, in the auditorium of the Sclienley High School. The subject will be 
The New American Drama, a time
ly subject which Mr. Clark is well 
qualified to discuss, because of his 
long experience with the theater of 
America and of Europe.
Mr. Clark is the son of Prof. S. I-I. 
Clark of the University of Chicago. 
His experience has been gained as a 
critic, author, translator, actor and 
producer. He has a personal ac
quaintance with almost all the notable 
living playwrights of Germany, France, 
Spain and England. His most sig
nificant books are standard studies of 
the drama, which are indispensable to 
the serious student of the drama. 
Among these books are the follow
ing: "The Continental Drama Of To
day, British and American Drama 
og Today, Contemporary French 
Dramatists, European Theories Of 
the Drama, and "How To Produce 
Amateur Plays.''
The lecture is the second of a 
series of open meetings arranged by 
the Pittsburgh Center of the Drama 
League. All who are interested in the 
vital currents of present-day drama 
are invited to attend. .There will be 
no admission fee, and no tickets are 
required. 
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all good fel
lows meet and enjoy a good 
meal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
KnCK vw,
Flower Giuing 
is
Thanksgiving
(^60/ -trUiriA.
i Tech Flower Shot
1 4527 FORBES ST. HU* CSJU^PHOHESCHENIFndyd
Night Class of Drama 
To Give Short Plays
Play, Written By Alumnus, 
One of Four to Be Given
On Tuesday and Wednesday even
ing, the 25th and 26tli of November, 
the Night School of the" Drama De-; 
partment, will produce four one-act i 
plays.
The first of these lays "In the | 
Zone, is written by Eugene ONeil, 
one of Americas foremost playwrites. 
ITe has written such plays as the 
"Hairy Ape, Emperor Jones, "All 
God's Chillums Got Wins, which 
have gained renown throughout the 
world. It is his fanciful and unique 
style that makes his plays interest
ing and every one will enjoy. "In the 
Zone, which is a typical ONeill 
story. The place of action Is on 
the forecastle of a tramp steamer 
in the war time.
"Blackberrin', the second play, is 
written by Howard F. Smith, who in 
1918 graduated from the Drama DeDepartment, and received his A. M. 
degree the following year. He has 
directed several largo pageants as 
the Virginian Pageant at Richmond, 
and Van Raensslar Polytechnic 
Pageant at Troy, N. Y. Ho will lie 
associated with T. W. Stevens in the 
new School of the Theater at Chi
cago.
The scene in the play is situated 
in the country with all its characters 
costumed in the dress of farmers. 
As the name suggests, the play will 
be a typical "down on the farm 
play.
V. Wasson, a student In the Night 
School of the Drama Department, has 
written the "Magnificent Gestures." 
This will be the third act of the 
evening. The play deals with the 
people of France during the French 
Revolution. It will be very interest
ing for it will show the real ability 
of drama students.
The last play will be A Marrying 
Man, hy Harold Brlghouse, an Eng
lish playwright. The play is a com
edy of a seaman who is rather lib
eral in his matrimonial adventures. 
All those who intend to sail the seas 
of matrimony should not miss the 
play. This is the first production of 
the play in America. It has a very 
great success in England and was 
popular with everyone.
These four-one act plays will he 
the first production of plays by the 
Night Drama Department and with 
such a selection of plays and the 
ability of the students, one is sure to 
spend an enjoyable evening at the 
Little Theater.
Some of the Carnegie Alumnae who 
were present at the exercises held iu 
the Music Hall in honor and ob
servance of the birthday of Andrew 
Carnegie, and many friends of the 
great benefactor who were there, 
will perhaps remember a little about 
the first Carnegie Day held Novem
ber 25, 1913. A similarity of facts | 
comes to our notice as we recall that 
Charles M. Schwab was the speaker 
at the first -annual commemoration, i 
which was also held in the Music 
Hall.
Every year since then we have' 
always remembered the Canny Old j 
Scots birthday, and this event is 
wholly and primarily a student occa
sion as Dr. Baker stated in his intro
ductory remarks. But this year 
stands out by itself because of the 
fact that Mr. Schwab was with the 
students again after a twelve years 
absence.
In 1913 Mr. Schwab sp'oke of An
drew Carnegie and his ways with 
men. This .year in an informal ad
dress he again told of Mr. Carnegie, 
eulogizing him and calling attention 
to the characteristics which made 
him a great man. He pointed out 
that the founder never complained, 
and always advoted dare deviltry in 
business and joy and happiness in 
all undertakings. To be happy, ho 
stated, one should put their heart and 
soul in tlio work, and determine to 
do a thing and carry out the deter
mination.
Mr. Schwab then charged the Car
negie men and women to follow these 
precepts and they would becomo 
great, perhaps not in money or 
fame, but still worthy of notice. Thus 
that which was applicable twelve 
years ago still hold good today.
Martin (Mox) W. Pliolmeyer, who 
received his B. A. degree In archi
tecture in the class of 1921. and who 
resides at Fort Wayne, Ind., Is re
ceiving widespread recognition for his 
latest building projects in Fort 
Wayne.
Mr. Pohlmeyer has been associated 
with his brother. Fred W. Pohlmeyer, 
in the architectural firm of Pohl
meyer & Pohlmeyer, for the past 
three years.
Mr. Pohlmeyer is a member of all j 
branches of Masonry, including the | 
Scottish Rite and Mispali Shrine. He j 
is a member of the University Club, j 
the Lions Club, the Trinity English i 
Lutheran Church and the Beta Theta 
Pi national fraternity. He has re
sided at Fort Wayne all his life, with j
[ TELESCOPE j
One more.real, treat is in store for 
the Carnegie adherents and her Pitts
burgh followers before the 1924 foot
ball history of the Plaid closes. This 
game between Carnegie and Notre 
Dame will be matching a small, 
brainy and well-coached eleven 
against a larger, just as brainy, and 
an equally well-coached aggregation, 
who have boon enjoying the distinc
tive reputation of being the best foot
ball team in the world. Most Alumna 
within a range are coming in person 
to see this last appearance of the 
Plaid in Pittsburgh against Notre 
Dame. Next year you will travel to 
South Bend to see the annual game. 
If you cannot come, ICDKA will tell 
the story, play by play.
Freshmen Represent 
28 Different States
Majority From Penna. With 
Ohio Second
the exception of the time spent at 
school The Pohlmeyer firm has been 
specializing in the study of the large 
edifice type of architecture, such as 
churches, schools and artistic com
mercial building types. The firm de
signed the new Adams grade school, 
to be built soon at a cost of $150,000, 
also a number of the citys new com
mercial buildings.
Mr. Pohlmeyer entered Carnegie 
Tech in 1915, but served with the Q. 
M. engineers from 1917-1919 and, re
turning to school following his dis
charge from the army, he graduated 
with the class of 1921. He served two 
years on the Inter-Fraternity Council 
and acted as assistant track manager, 
as well as on many committees.
STEIDLE SPEAKS AT
SAFETY. CONFERENCE
BHARAT ASSOCIATION 
HOLDS FIRST MEETING
At the first meeting of the year, 
held at Room 124 C, Industries B 
buildings, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, the Bharat Association of the 
Hindu Students in Pittsburgh, re
viewed its activities during the last 
year and elected officers for this year.
Last years activities of the as
sociation consisted of two socials and 
seven meetings, with speakers like 
Dr. Cleven and Dr Tyson from Univer
sity of Pittsburgh; Messrs. Shover, 
Spear, Mukerji and Kutar from India; 
Miss Quil from China, and others, 
speaking on India in its various 
phases and on other topics of com
mon interest.
Little known as the activities of the 
organization are, it Is the only one of 
its kind in Pittsburgh. Anybody in
terested in the Orient will always 
find a hearty welcome at these meet
ings. The purpose of the club is to 
learn something from America, the 
best it has to give, and in exchange to 
give to them the best that the Orient 
1 has. thus acting for the good of each 
other.
Mr. J. D. Khosla has been elected 
president and Mr. M. N. Dutt con
tinues as secretary of the association.
E. E. GRADS. TRAINING 
WITH GENL ELECT. CO.
Three of the 1924 Electrical grad
uates have takon up a two year Stu
dents Training Course given by the 
General Electric Company at Schen
ectady, New York. These graduates 
are W. C. Gaughnour, W. L. Tadlock 
and A. C. Muir. Each of those fol
lows received a Bachelor of Science 
degree with tlio class of 1924.
Goughnour and Tadlock both came 
to Carnegie from Tennessoe In Sep
tember, 1919. Muir entered in 1920'. 
All three are members of the A. I. 
E. E.
The General Electric Companv has 
established a news burea depart
ment for the special purpose of kooping colleges Informed as to their 
graduatos omployed.
GRAPHICA CHRISTMAS
CARDS SELLING FAST
(Continued From Pago One) 
one of home, sweet home. Wo recom
mend it especially for out of town 
studentsand thumb print experts,
In style B, the conventional can
dle and holly in the window, appro
priately supplemented by an Auld 
Lang Syne verso, is displayed in a 
manner conducive to thoughts of the 
good old brass-foot-rai) days.
Among the best cards on the market 
this year, style "C" must be consider
ed. A Moslem church with Pittsburgh 
steel-miil windows, over-hung by a 
forest of reindeer antlers, the whole 
silhouetted against the Alps Moun
tains, above which, in a deep blue 
winter sky, hangs the full moon, are 
blended In a way which makes one 
feel in full measure, the universality 
of the Christmas Spirit.
Style D needs no advertising: it 
sells itself. A snow scene landscape 
evergreen trees, a country roadway 
leading to a sheltered homestead, snow 
banked high, a deep blue sky in which 
shines a huge full moonis printed 
in a fancy border over a beautiful 
blue tint background. You will want 
one of these to hang in your study.
Something absolutely unique, of 
value only to Carnegie people, is of
fered in style E. Old Jock McClurg 
from Edinburgh in full Kiltie attire, 
and armed with his trusty bagpipe, 
sends forth with genuine Scotch prodi
gality a full measure of cheer and 
goodwill to the world from Carnegie, 
in red, green, and black.
Style F is a folder with a pleas
ing candle design. It is plain but dig
nified, with a verse that more than 
supplies the goodness that the design 
promises.
The greatest surprise of all Is "G 
It is a folder on handmade paper of a 
light brown tint. Two nymphlike her
alds in grayish blue, in ijn impression- j istlc background ofthe card really 
I cannot be described. You had better 
see It, however, before buying else
where.
Style "H is a very modern folder, 
with a Far Eastern gift bearer as the 
central figure. The verse carries otit 
the Oriental theme of the design most 
suitably.
These cards are on display at the 
printing department in Industries, on 
tho bulletin boards, and at the en
trance to Central Building. The val
ues offered should make every Car
negie man and woman a regular cusomer of the Graphica Club. Get your 
orders in- early. The cards and the 
time are limited. 
At the Joint Safoty Conference, hold 
at tho Chamber of Commerce Audi
torium here on Monday, November 10, 
under the joint auspices of the Na
tional Safety Council, Pennsylvania 
Department of Labor and Industry, 
tlio Bureau of Minos and other bodies, 
Capt. Edward Stoidlo, supervisor, Co
operative Mining Course, road an in
teresting paper on "The Nood Of 
Rock-Dusting as a Preventive Of Ex
plosions In Minos.
Explosions had boon tho greatest 
menace in the mines, and ouch year 
took as Its toll scores of human livos, 
not to speak of tho loss of properties. 
Rock-dusting as a preventive have 
boon under experiment for the last 
few years. Tho success achieved by 
Its use has been amply verified. It Is 
up to the mining public to take ad
vantage of this now safety mothods.
This was tho topic of Ca.pt. Stoidlo 
before tho conference. Ho explalnod 
to the American mining public lucid
ly, and forcibly Impressed In tliolr 
mind its practical application as a. 
measure of safoty for tho llvos of tlio 
employees and tho employers.
SALE OF THISTLES SLOW;
CAMPAIGN AFTER XMAS
(Continued From Pago Olio.) 
ly a sample of tho many features that 
will bo Incorporated In tho finished 
books. Tho work Is greatly facili
tated1 by tho co-operation of tho 
Painting and Illustrating Depart
ment, and tho help of the printer and 
engravor, with whom Mr. Wheeler is 
highly pleased.
The opening section will consist 
of campus sketches from tho Painting 
and Illustrating Department. This 
will be followed by an entirely new 
view section, featuring an airplane 
picture of the entire campus. Only 
those students who have spent some 
time in Schenley Park can realize 
the beauty and novelty of this 
scene. Each section of the book 
will be Introduced with a colored 
insert having especial significance for 
that section. A page will be devoted 
to wandering Greeks, ed and co-ed 
it is supposed that Sklbo Inn will 
he featured.* A beauty contest will 
be conducted, only Senior girls being 
eligible. The dignity of Carnegie ac
tivities will thus .be maintained. 4 
complete surprise is promised in the 
way of humor, and the unique gen
eral layout of the pages will also 
be saved as a shekel loosener in the 
final campaign.
It is readily seen that, granted the 
support of the Student Body, tne 
1925 Thistle staff will produce a 
book equalling or surpassing any 
book of Its kind In the country. 
Every Carnegie man and woman 
should invest in this exceptional his
tory book even before he or she 
considers the purchase of "Well's 
Outlines Do not forget the 
Thistle will contain a complete ver
sion of the 1925 Pitt versus Tech 
epic, now so famous in our history.
There Is a great deal of work on 
the business staff of the Thistlo for 
which Freshmen and Sophomores are 
eligible. All men who are interested 
may obtain further particulars from 
Howard Strong, circulation manager.
The Carnegie Day celebration on 
Inst. Friday, was probably one of the 
best-conducted and most appreciated 
exercises which has been held since 
the initial one in 191:?. The speaker,, 
Mr. Charles M. Schwab gave an in
spiring, instructive, and extremely in
teresting talk. Being one of Mr. Car
negies close friends, he was able to 
relate many personal incidents and 
traits of Mr. Carnegie, which help to 
endear the memory of our founder.
You Alumni who have a musical 
ear, nimble fingers, and the desire to 
do something for your Alma Mater, 
can avail yourself of the opportunity 
of writing a march, and at the- same 
time, win the prize offered by the 
Song Book Commltteo. A distinctive 
Carnegie mat.oil is something- which 
has been needed and we hope will 
soon be available.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
ELECTS OFFICERS
 Tho membors of tho Musical De
partment hold tho election of officers 
last week. Tho results are as fol
lows:
President, Edmund Schuchort; vice 
president, Marlon Powell; secretary, 
Betty Matter; treasurer, Meredith 
Stump; social chairman, Christine 
Cochrane.
Tho department has made groat 
progress this yoar and has some lino 
concerts coming on. The Bach can
tata class, conducted by Miss Joan 
Seaman, is about ready to give one 
of the best cantatas ever written by 
Bach.
Last Sunday ovenlng at oight-thlrty 
tho students gave a rocltal at the 
Carnegie Music Hall, All tho numhorn wero welt rondorod and tlio 
oncort was a great success.
Tho program conslstod of:
1. Richard Strauss, sonata for violin
and piano, Op. 18.
Allegro nia non troppo, Mario 
Kloyle, Katherine Ilosslor.
2. Moskowslcl, concorto for piano,
Op. 5
Modorato
Andante
Vlvaco (Scherzo)
Nancy Fast
a. Sarasaro ................. Zlgounorwelson
Raymond Bandio 
4. Tchaikovsky, Concerto for piano, 
Op. 23.
First Movomont 
Katherine ITbflslor
AccompanistMlco Nelson.
Old Nicks Copper
Nickel is obtained from an ore which 
had been called by miners "Old Nicks 
Copper because, while It looked lllco 
copper ore, It yielded absolutely no 
copper. Nickel was first obtained in 
Germany about 17m.
A total of 24S different high and 
preparatory schools in 28 different 
States aro represented by their gradu
ates among tho t>17 members of the 
regular freshman day classes this 
year at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, according to a report issued 
yesterday by Dr. P. S. Barto, in 
charge of Secondary School Relations.
Of tho 24S secondary schools repre
sented, 141 of them are iu Pennsylva
nia. Ohio is second on the list, with 
35 schools with representatives among 
the freshman students, followed by 
New York with 15, and West Virginia 
with 11.
Of the Pittsburgh District Second
ary Schools. Schenley High School 
leads with 45 of its graduatos en
rolled as Carnegie freslimon. Pea
body High has 30, Willcinsburg High 
has 22, and Allegheny High is next 
with 17 Other local schools are 
represented as follows: Grafton High, 
15; Fifth Avenue High, and South 
I-Iills High, 10 each; Donnont High, 
South High and Pittsburgh Academy, 
S each; Langley High and Westingliouso High, 7 each; Cathedral High, 
(5; Holy llosary, 5; ShadysUlo Acad
emy. 3; Mount Morey and Ursulino 
Academy, 2 each; Sacred Heart, St. 
Rosalia, Thurston School and Win
chester School, 1 each.
Pennsylvania High Schools outside 
of tho Pittsburgh District with com* 
f paratlvoly large representations inI cludo: Now Cnstlo High, 10: Butter
High, 7; McKeesport. High, 7; and 
Uniontown I-Iigli, 0; Washington, Pa., 
is represented by five students from 
throe of its secondary schools.
Youngstown, O., with 13 students 
among tho ,freshmen, loads all other 
cities and towns outside of tho Stato 
of Pennsylvania. Wheeling, W. Va., 
has 8, and Washington, D. C., and 
Warren, O., havo (5 each'; 5 freshmen 
claim Canton, O, as their homos, 
while West Valley, N. Y., Cleveland, 
0 and Niles, O., havo 4 each among 
the first-year students.
Hie representation of froshmon by 
States shows that 15(1 of thorn aro 
Pennsylvanians. Ohio Is next on tho 
list with 05, Now York has 23 of Its 
sons and daughters llstod, and Wost 
Virginia Is fourth with 10. Other 
States aro claimed by froshmon as fol
lows; Now Jersey, 7; Connecticut, 
(5; Massachusetts, 5; Virginia, -I; Illi
nois, Indiana and Michigan, .'I each; 
California, Maryland, Minnesota and 
North Carolina, 2 each; Arlzana, 
Colorado, Delaware, Georgia, Louisi
ana, Montana, Nebraska, Oregon, Ten
nessee, Texas, Washington and Wis
consin, I each.
According to Dr. Barto's report, tho 
tabulations show a gain of three 
States over those listed for last years 
uttering classes.
I Oakland Savings &
Trust Co.
j* Member Federal Reserve 
Ijl System.
j- Capital............................$300.000.00
.j. Surplus............................$300,000.00
V Deposits, Over - * - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES
Y FOR RENT
**XXX^~X**X*X~XX~XX**X>
CLOTHES
for the 
classes
before
GARNEGIE GUILD
MEMBERSHIP DRIVE
(Continued From Pago One.) 
the music and tho Drama Department 
tho histrionic talent.
The future looks bright for the 
Carnegie Guild and if, the students 
support the organization with the 
good spirit that the officers are show
ing by the energy with which they 
are forwarding the Carnegie plans, 
this year will be by far the most suc
cessful in its history.
mmmmmmmmmmsmmmmwmr
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBE8 STREET 
Artists' and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
they are
popular
with
the masses
From Our Tailor Shops 
DIKECT TO YOU
Save the Middleman's Profit. 
Made to Your Measure.
All Wool, $29.50
JDUUUliL
"Nationally KnownJuntly Famous"
Our representative, Mr. Wll- I 
liam C. Harlow, v/ill display at 
Sklbo Inn Wednesday and 
Thursday, December 3 and 4.
A Christmas delivery guaran
teed.
Educates 
the Hair
A few drops 
before school 
keeps the hair 
combed all 
day. Refresh
ing, pleasing.
At drug countorn ivnrt harbor ^ 
filiopH ovnrywlioro,aoco
(Gloss-Comb)
THE ORIGINAL 
LIQUID HAIR DRESS
FOR
Real Men and Boys
Send for Sample Bottle
Mall coupon ami 10c for f'cnerou/i 
trial bottlo. Nornmny Product!* Co., 
511, McKinley Av., Lou AngoloH, Col.
Nomo___
r
