ARE YOU 
PREPARED FOR 
FINALEXAMS?
VOL. XIV. No. 33.ljf (Harlan
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
IF NOT  
GET BUSY!
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9. 1920.
Commencement Program Crowds 
Hall With Students and Friends
Baccalaureate Sermon
Two hundred and seventy former 
stutlents of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology received diplomas at the 
thirteenth Commencement held in 
Carnegie Music Hall Monday morn
ing. The class is one of the largest 
ever graduated, and included some of 
of the most active and best known 
undergraduatesmen who have been 
absent from the campus on account of 
the war, but who came back and took 
just as active an interest in Tech as 
though their classmates were still 
here, and those who stayed on as well.
The senior class this year repre
sents plebe classmen from a good 
many different years, and every one 
was out to Show them all that the 
student body is with them to the last.
President Hamerschlag presided ov
er the commencement program, which 
was as follows:
Evening Song............................ Martin
Charles Pearson, Organist 
Invocation... .Rev. Hugh Thompson 
Kerr, D. D., Pastor Shadysire 
Presbyterian Church 
Overture to The Magic Flute
..........................................Mozart
Orchestra, School of Music 
J. Vick OBrien, Conductor
Address...........The Hon. Hugh Gibson
Minister of the United States 
to Poland 
Toreador et Andalouse. .Rubenstein 
Orchestra 
Conferring of Degrees, Diplomas and
Certificates------. Pres. Hamerschlag
Announcement of Honors 
America
Marche Triomphale....................Dubois
Mr. Pearson
The address, delivered by the Hon
orable Hugh Gibson, Minister of the 
United States to Poland was much en
joyed by every one present. Mr. Gib
son was with Brand Whitlock in Bel
gium and has had experiences which 
can not fail to broaden him and make 
his opinions and suggestions worth 
while to his fellowmen.
The Baccalaureate Services were 
held in the Little Theatre, Arts Divi
sion on Sunday evening, and many 
could not be accommodated on ac
count of the large crowd attending. 
The Sermon was delivered by the very 
Rev. Hughell E. W. Fosbroke, D. D., 
Dean of the General Theological Sem
inary, New York City.
OLDTIME TECH PEP COMES TO FORE AGAIN 
AT ATHLETIC SMOKER
Coming as a climax to the present 
athletic season and as preparatory to 
the football season the biggest ath
letic smoker ever held at Carnegie 
Tech took off well at the Union last 
Saturday night. Graduate Manager 
Frank Haaren is ever active and too 
much credit for the success of the 
smoker cannot be given him.
Many of the Alumni were present 
and practically all of the presidents 
of. the various clan? were- there. Sweet cider of the 57 variety, and 
Y. M. C. A. doughnuts constituted the 
repast. The cider was the nearest ap
proach to the real old Three Star I-Iennisey that has visited Tech for some 
time.
Through the kindness of Mr. Guy
ton, moving pictures of Campus Week 
featuring I-Ionus Wagner as a Babe 
Ruth, were shown for the second time 
to Tech followers. A fast bout be
tween young gangsters furnished addi
tional amusement for the spectators. 
Miss Marguerite Nelson, who has ap
peared before Tech students before, 
again came up to her standard of 
pulling the bad ones out. Bert Munhall, and a few other of the old fellows 
received their share of Miss nelsons 
patronage.
Graduate Manager Haaren gave a 
brief review of the past athletic sea
son and prospects for the coming sea
son. Coach Hazel told of the present 
track team and the good work that 
they have done this season. He also 
explained the purpose of the 38 silver 
loving cups that were on exhibition. 
Cups will be awarded all men who had 
won first place in any event, cups for 
the Pentahleon and cups for men that 
have not scored but have been as per
sistent in their practices and train
ing as the rest of the squad. At this 
time mention of sending Kelly to the 
Olympic try-outs in Philadelphia was 
made and a little over one hundred 
dollars was taken in by subscription. 
Captain Schmidt spoke a few words 
urging men to try out for the track 
team and mentioning the benfits de
rived.
State Commissioner Connelly, former 
Dean of Industries, gave a very spirit
ed talk on Tech as other people see 
it from the outside. He told of his 
experiences at the Penn Relays, and 
the admiration of the English fellows 
for the Tech spirit as shown on that 
day. Buddy Overend, President of 
the Atheltic Council, presented in 
brief, plans that were being worked 
on for next yearthe possibility of 
having Pitt on our schedule, of hav
ing a Varsity Club room in the gym
nasium.Mr. Sullivan, former director of the 
band, and the man who has made the 
Tech Band, urged the students to back 
the band and give them what they 
asked for. Mr. Sullivan has had the 
interest of the Tech band at heart for 
many years, it being one of his pet 
hobbies. Mr. Sox concluded the pro
gram with a number of humorous 
readings and jokes.---------D----------
^Illlllllllllllllllilllllllllllllll'lllllll'illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllCllllllllllllllllilllllli^
FOOTBALL CANDIDATES
1 All information blanks must _ 
S be turned in to the Athletic Of1 fice before the close of school, 
jj Special attention is called to j| 
1 Last Years Varsity and Plebe jj 
jj Squads.
^luiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiuiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuuiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiaiiiiii
STAFF BEGINS WORK 
ON TECHNICAL JOURNAL
The following staff will attempt to 
publish the C. I. T. Technical Journal 
next year:
General Manager.............PI. F. Stimm
Editor-in-Chief.............L. E. Emericli
Business Manager.................E. A. Butts
Managing Editor.................Roy Welter
Undergraduate Editor
.................J. K. W. MacAlphine
Faculty Editor...... .Prof. McIntosh
Business Asst...........C. F. Fleischman
Numerous other assistants have 
been appointed from various depart
ments which are too numerous to 
mention. The work has been 'started 
and a general plan outlined for the 
whole year.
The problem confronting the staff 
is that of student support and final 
plans will go into effect as soon as 
the subscription campaign ends this 
week.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY OFFICERS ELECTED
Scholarship Awarded
At the last meeting of the school as
sembly, Division of Industries, the fol
lowing officers were elected:
H. C. Iiammann, President,
P. D. Good, Vice President,
H. C. Godden, Secretary,
H. W. McCaw, Treasurer.
H. W. Lynn was nominated for 
president of the athletic board of con
trol.
Dean Morris talked on Alpha Tau 
which is the goal toward which the 
boys are aiming, as it means to the 
industrial man what Tau Beta Pi 
means to the engineer. The annual 
scholarship was awarded to John E. 
Chick for the excellent, scholastic rec
ord he has made during his freshman 
and sophomore years.
POTOMAC CLUB MEETING
JU5T BEFORE THE BATTLE
lUntt'a'med
Student
Monday, June 7, the members of the 
Potomac Club held a theater party at 
the Davis. On the way to the amuse
ment place they had to show the lay
men that they are from Tech, by giv
ing yells and at the theater they also 
tried to make themselves known, but 
there, it was a diiferent situation. The 
program at the Davis was a very good 
one due to the fact that the Potomac 
Club men were there, of course. At 
11 bells they visited one of the fa
mous beaneries of down town and 
there the arrangement committee 
showed what they had in stock for 
the evening. The eats seemed to sat
isfy the digestive systems of every
body and a vote of thanks was there
fore given to the arrangement com
mittee.Then they made a night survey of 
the down town section after which 
they landed on an empty car, thus 
giving them a chance to show their 
mirth as much as possible.
Arrangements are being made to get 
all the students from Maryland and 
the District of Columbia to go home 
on the same train and if a good num
ber of men will sign up a special 
coach will be secured. Men who de
sire to go home on the same train 
will please see Mr. Zebest 22 Science 
or Earl Hummer 22 Science for any 
I details.
YOUVE LOAFING
YOOUVEear! NOW 
STAND LA LIKE A MAN 
,ANO TAKE THE . 
CONSeQUENCESl
Track Team Defeats Dennison
in La& Meet of Season
Kelly Breaks Record
Techs undefeated track team con
quered Dennison Saturday afternoon 
in a dual meet on the Tech field to a 
score of 78 to 50. Showing up strong* 
in the track events, the Plaid cinder 
men captured first place in every one 
with the exception of the 120-yard, 
high hurdles, which went to Owen of 
Dennison. Carnegie men also won 
two of the three jumps, but lost all 
of the weight events.
The Dennison meet brought to a 
close the most successful season a 
TecK' irack team has "eVeir experience,' winding up the year with five victories 
to their credit and no defeats. This 
is the first undefeated track squad 
that has flown the Plaid colors in the 
history of the school, and the only 
sport in which Tech has a clean slate 
for the year. A great amount of cred
it is due to every man on the team and 
their excellent coach.
In addition to triumphing over all 
their opponents, one school record fell 
before the onslaughts of Kelley, while 
I-Iamman tied another. Saturday Kel
ley again tied the record he made in 
the Allegheny meet of ten seconds flat 
for the hundred lowering the school 
record by a fifth. Dowling OS), for
merly held the record, which had been 
tied three times. Kelley has proved 
to be the star of this season's team. 
Saturday night at the big athletic 
smoker money was raised to send him 
to the Olympic trials to be held at 
Philadelphia, and great things are ex
pected of him.
In the 440-yard dash Tech took all 
three places from Dennison, Hiller 
winning and Capt. Schmidt and Brum
baugh coming in close behind. Owing 
to the soggy condition of the track 
the time in all events was slow, the 
440 being won in 54 seconds. Kelley, 
Clark and Russell placed in the order 
in both the hundred and 220-yard 
dash.
Nichol, Cooper and Greenlaw cap
tured first place in each of the runs, 
all three places in the half going to 
Tech men. Wright of Dennison came 
in second in the mile, with Blesch of 
Tech close behind him for third place. 
The two-mile run furnished the pret
tiest race of the afternoon, with 
Greenlaw and McDonald fighting it 
out for first place to the tape. Mc
Donald set the pace for the greater 
part of the race, Greenlaw keeping 
on his heels and forging abreast of 
him on the last lap. From the stands 
it looked as though the finish was a 
tie, but a few yards from the tape 
Greenlaw edged ahead, breaking the 
line a small fraction of a second be
fore McDonald.
Owen and Abernathy of Dennison 
took first and second place in the high 
hurdles, the only track event the Ohio 
boys won. Arnold and Mertz came
back though and won the low hurdles, 
Abernathy coming in third.
Stultz again won the pole vault in 
easy fashion, clearing the bar at ten 
feet, two inches, with Donnalley sec
ond and Woodward third. The high 
jump went to Dawson, of Dennison, 
a'. 5 feet, Ilamman taking the broadjump with a leap of 20 feet, six inches.
The plaid men were woefully weak 
in the weight events, Moon, who was 
counted on to win the shotput, being 
i^Penn State with the baseball team. 
Dennison won each of the' three 
events, Tech men taking second in the 
javelin and discus. All three places 
went to the Ohio College in the shot 
put at a distance of only 35.1 I'eet.
The summary:
100-Yard .DashWon by Kelley, 
Tech; second, Clark, Dennison; third, 
Tech. Time:10.
220-Yard DashWon by Kelly, 
Tech; second, Clark, Dennison; third, 
Russell, Tech. Time:23 3-5.
440-Yard DashWon by Hiller, 
Tech; second, Schmidt, Tech; third, 
Brumbaugh, Tech. Time:54.
880-Yard RunWon by Nichol, 
Tech; second, Cavett, Tech; third, 
Cooper, Tech. Time2:09 1-5.
Mile RunWon by Cooper, Tech; 
second, Wright, Dennison; third, 
Blesch, Tech. Time4:40 3-5.
Two-Mile liunWon by Greenlaw, 
Tech; second, McDonald, Tech; third, 
Whitacre, Dennison. Time1.0:42.
120-Yard High Hurdles...Won by
Owen, Dennison; second, Abernathy, 
Dennison; third, Arnold, Tech. Time 
 :17 4-5.
220-Yard Low HurdlesWon by 
Arnold, Tech; second, Mertz, Tech; 
third, Abernathy, Dennison. Time 
:27 4-5.
Pole VaultWon by Stultz, Tech; 
second, Donnelly, Dennison; third, 
Woodward, Tech. Height10 feet 2 
inches.
High umpWon by Dawson, Denn
ison; second, Hammann, Tech; third, 
Weldman and Owen, Dennison, tied. 
Height5 feet.
Broad Jump  Won by Hammann, 
Tech; second, Bremmer, Tech; third, 
Wildman, Dennison. Distance20 ft. 
6 inches.
Discus ThrowWon by Kull, Den
nison.; second, Kalajaich, Tech; third, 
Wildman, Dennison. Distance104.7 
feet.
ShotputWon by Kull, Dennison; 
second, Rettig, Dennison; third, Wild
man, Dennison. Distance35.1 feet.
Javelin ThrowWon by Kull, Den
nison; second, Schmidt, Tech; third, 
Rettig, Dennison. Distance140.4
feet.
Total score  Carnegie Tech, 78; 
Dennison University, 50.
1920 THISTLE
Co-operate and call for your Thistle, if you ordered one. Books will be sold to everybody regardless of whether they subscribed or not. Office open Wednesday and Thursday, 11:30 to 1:30. Room 135 Industries Building.
CO-OPERATE
Graduate Manager Outlines Plans 
For 1920 Athletics; Commends 
Splendid Success of This Season
Office To Be Open All Summer
oil exclusively for intercollegiate ath
letic purposes was enthusiastically re
ceived and plans are afoot to institute 
in the field house, all the facilities of a 
varsity and athletic club house.
The splendid records of the spring 
sports varsity teams will be found 
elsewhere in this issue, and to say the 
least, are wonderfully gratifying. Too 
much cannot be said in praise of the 
wonderful spirit of the men making* up 
the teams, the hard consistent work of 
the coaches and the sticking qualities 
of the second string men who by vir
tue of their efforts make the varsity teams what they are.
A great lot of interest is being* 
shown at this time in the plans for 
the coming football season. It is 
gratifying indeed to note by means of 
the blanks furnished for the purpose 
of gaining* statistics with reference to 
football men for next fall the amount 
of interest that is indicated. The ef
forts of the students and alumni in 
interesting graduating prep school 
athletes in selecting Tech to follow up 
their education has borne excellent 
fruit and too much emphasis cannot 
be laid upon the desirability of 
spreading the name of Carnegie Tech 
as the wonderful institution it is and 
thus obtain for it, as stated before, 
athletic as well as educational prestige.
Present plans call for the opening 
of the football training camp about 
September 13 and in order that every 
one interested may bo kept in touch 
with the arrangements as they pro
gress, it is urged that all football men 
who have not already done so immed
iately fill out the football information 
blanks which are available at the of
fice of the Graduate Manager. This 
office will be maintained throughout 
the summer and it is the particular de
sire of the Athletic Council that it be 
considered as the clearing house of all 
things of an athletic nature. A spe
cial invitation is issued to Alumni vis
iting Pittsburgh as well as residents, 
to come in and make themselves ac
quainted with' liiu hi 1' u 11 v "1 o j 1 n 11 2 i tv.. " 
Open house will be the unchangeable 
rule and every friond of Tech is wel
come. It is particularly desirable that 
not only undergraduates but all others 
shall feel free to call upon the Grad
uate Manager at all times whether if 
be for information, with suggestions, 
or even praise or complaints. In con
clusion, it is desirable to reiterate the 
necessity for the continued support of 
all concerned, to emphasize that it 
takes more than cheering to accom
plish results and that every one has 
a part to play in the solid, consistent 
support of the policies of the Ath
letic Council, under which conditions, 
the Council pledges Itself to give its 
best efforts towards Carnegie Tech's 
athletic success.
Fit A NIC II. IIA AH ION, 
Graduate Manager.
The reorganization of the Athletic 
Association of Carnegie Tech and the 
formation of the Athletic Council has 
in the short time of its existence, en
tirely justified itself. It is particular
ly encouraging that simultaneously 
with the change, Carnegie Tech brot 
into the field, the best track, baseball and tennis teams in her existence. 
Notliwithstanding this fact, however, 
satisfaction has been shown on every 
side with the new method of handling 
athletic affairs, in which the Alumni, 
the Faculty and the Undergraduates 
all have an active participation.
The main purpose of the reorgaization was an attempt to place athletic 
affairs on a basis where a definite 
policy might be selected and adhered 
to. This policy, of course, must be 
one of progressiveness and to date a 
number of changes have been affected 
and are in anticipation, which, when 
worked out, will give Carnegie Tech, 
the facilities and background to place 
her among the best, not only in an 
educational and technical sense, which 
position is hers now, but likewise in an 
athletic manner as well.
The institution of the graduate 
manager system is undoubtedly a good 
move as it enables the institution and 
pursuit of a definite policy which be
cause of its permanency will have a 
steadying effect which has been lack
ing heretofore.
The splendid cooperation of all in
terested in the new athletic movement 
has been commented upon innumer
able times and to continue the upward 
trend of Carnegie athletics, it is only 
necessary to be assured of a continu
ance of this same spirit, which will 
carry Tech to the top. An innovation 
in keeping the Alumni in close touch 
with the new developments takes 
place with this issue of the Tartan, 
the details of which are given else
where, viz., the intention to send the 
Tartan to every interested Alumnus, 
so that there will always be a closor 
contact and more intimate knowledge 
of Carn.vile avimti. :vr:*i a iVyi.*v. nth* 
letic and otherwise.
The campaign to create a capital 
fund for the Athletic Association 
made a very satisfactory start and will 
be carried forward during the sum
mer at which time the Alumni, who 
have not been reached to date, will 
all be approached. The response of 
the undergraduate body to this fund 
was a splendid testimonial of the 
spontneous approval of the actions of 
the Athletic Council and will go down 
into Carnegie history as a banner 
event. The support tendered by the 
Administration was to many, a revela
tion, and stands as a definite record 
of a real desire to cooperate entirely 
with the Council. The rocent an
nouncement of President Hamerschlag of the decision to turn the 
present field house over to the CounPROF. CRABTREE SPEAKS AT LAST A. A. E, MEETINC
Last Thursday the C. 1. T. Chap
ters of A. A. K. held the final meet
ing of the year. The most important 
part of the program was a talk by 
Professor Crabtree on The Human 
Side of Engineering. He told of the 
recent development of the engineering 
schools along broader lines, tending 
to make an engineer a man of wide 
knowledge, instead of tieing him down 
to one narrow rut. Some of the nec
essary qualifications for an engineer 
were brought out. An engineer should 
have good business judgment. His 
sole object should not be money but 
to be a good engineer. Money will 
come to any man who can do what 
people want or need better than any 
one else. An engineer must be able 
to get results, to make quick decisions 
and must have tact, discipline, exact
ness and reasonableness.
After a short business session, fol
lowed by eats, the meeting adjourned.
AHLPA TAU INITIATION
On Saturday, June 5th, the com
mencement week initiation and ban
quet of Alpha Tau Honorary Fratern
ity was held at Hotel Schenley. The 
following men were initiated: R. D. 
Feltyberger, C. E, Geisler, R. L. Shanno, R. J. Hawke, H. C. Godden, J. E. 
Chick, R. P. Woodward, E. F. Wendels, F. .1. Simons, and L. E, Lora. 
Commissioner Connolley, of the Dept, 
of Labor and Industry, State of Penn
sylvania, Secretary Hartman, Dean 
Morris, Prof. Dunnells, and John 
Chick made speeches appropriate to 
the occasion. This was the first ini
tiation Mr. Connolley was able to at
tend for some months, and his pres
ence certainly added to the success 
of the evening.
SCIENCE SENIORS ELECT 
ANNUAL HONOR MEN
The Senior Class of Science School 
announces the following Faculty and 
class election:
Faculty Election
Biggest Mexican Athlete.................
.............King George (unanimously)
Handsomest..................................Bolton
......... Pop Thayer
.......................Geek
.........Hap Howcr
...............McCullough
. .Doc Nathanson
.............Gundelfinger
.......................T rinks
Pussyfoot O'Hara 
. . . .Need we stateV
Hardest...............
Biggest Grouch
Best Sport.........
Slave Driver ...
Crabbiest...........
Biggest Kidder 
Most Profane ..
Most Athletic ..
Biggest Liar ...
Clan Election
Biggest Crab .................................Saylor
Handsomest .................Willie Wildern
(Smear Case)
Most Popular ...............................Beatty
Best Sport...........Nation Schaeffers
Biggest Jazzer...........Jimmie Giffen
Most Athletic .........................Marshall
INDUSTRY SOPHS ELECT 
OFFICERS FOR NEXT YEAR
At a recent meeting of the Sopho
more Class, Industry, final plans were 
made for the class banquet, to be held 
? The preparations are in 
the hands of I-Iuff, Rea, Shanno, and 
Hayes,
A I. the same meeting the following 
officers were named for next year:- 
if. C. Godden, President,
.J. K. Chick, Vice President,
C. F. Johnson, Secretary,
G. II. Dennis, Treasurer.

---------------------------------------------------

PAQK TWO.THE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 1920.
(Haran
Published every week by undergraduates cri the Carnegie Institute oi 
Technology under the aupervlaion of the Student Activities Board.
Entored In the pootofflce of Pittsburgh an econd-cla matter.
This year |L60
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
6c the copyCanada, $1.76
Editor-in-ChieJ! ... 
Business Manager
Phone Hazol 9422
Phone Ha*el 425.
Lawrence Paquin 
,.. Don A. Sillera
EDITORIAL
Asniatnnt Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
Newt Editor 
J. T. Ames 
Associate New* Editor 
W. D. Hall
Athletic Editor 
Fred L. Knowles
Aouintant Athletic Editors
G. R. Goodrich 
S. P. Smith
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editors
M. M. D.................Margaret J. Griffen
Scienco...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries ..................... Ralph Shuzrno
Art..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer 
I. M. Zebewl I. T. Siasman
BUSINESS STAFF 
R. F. Lunger 
Wm. Obenour 
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hour1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief ia responsible for the policy of thia paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at ones.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signaturo to be withhold if deaired.
All news items must be in the atudent postofflce, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
THE NEW TARTAN
This issue of the Tartan is the lust one of the school year. It is the issue 
in which most college papers mention the fact that their work is done, hand 
a few bouquets to the Seniors and call it u years work.
We wish to extend to the Seniors our heartiest congratulations and to 
wish them all the success in the worldthey have earned it by the work 
they have done in getting a degree from Tech. But the rest of the program 
we cannot follow outthis is not a last issue in any other sense than that 
we will not publish another until next year. In every other way, it is a first 
issue. It is the representative issue of what we want to do and mean to do 
next year. With the co-operation of the Alumni and the Athletic Associa
tion as represented by the Graduate Manager, the Tartan intends to do all 
in its power to keep up with the rest of Tech. We are going to be as good 
a paper as Tech is a school or bust in the attempt.
By the way the spirti of the student body and alumni has shown, we 
have set ourselves a hard task in attempting to keep abreast of them. How 
we succeed will depend on you. If you like this issuetell us so. It not, 
help us make next years Tartan better. We are just starting, and now is 
your chance to put your shoulder to the wheel and help yourselffor in the 
end, the editorial stall ol! the Tartan' is you, whoever of you take enough 
interest in it to make yourselves a part of it.
--------------------
TECH VS. YALEIn the fall of 101(5 the powors that control football at Yale departed from 
their usual custom and placed the names ol! several new educational institu
tions on the Yale football schedule, For their opening game they chose 
Carnegie Tech. U to that time Tech had never been heard ol in the East.
Anyoim who saw that game will not forget it. The plucky Tartan wearers, 
dospito the fact that they came oil' the field a badly battered team and at 
the small end of a 26-0 score, had made a name for Carnegie. The war came 
and sport were disorganized, but on October 2 next Tech is gain going to 
invade New Haven.
Tech had more rooters at that last Yale game than any college before at 
Yale's big games. Lots do It again. Kvory man within a reasonable radius 
of New Haven should be at the Bowl on October 2. Men from Now England 
should get in touch with the registrar this summer and arrange to register 
after the game, II: can be done.
One thing is certain, those who get there are going to see a football 
treat. No man who remembers the way "Sunny Kenner tore around those 
ends and how "Ued Kelly got over, under, around, and through Cupid" 
I Hark In 11)1(1 will miss that Toch-Yalo game this fall.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS 
ANNOUNCEMENT OF STUDENT FEES FOR THE YEAR 1920-21
General Fee. Payments. Students Activity Foe.
Sept. 27th. Jan. 4th.
Day students
taking reguar ....$125.00 $ 75.00 $ 60.00 $10.00
courses
Night students
taking rcguar .... 10.00 .'0.00
courses 
Day students
taking special .... 275.00 175.00 100.00
courses
No reduction in the general fee is made to day students who register 
late. Students withdrawing during the first week after payment of the gen
eral fee, due to circumstances beyond his control to a mistunderstanding, 
are entitled to a refund of their general fee, deducting $5.00 for registration 
and $5.00 for withdrawal fee.
Students withdrawing from the Institute during the year, for good rea
sons, sue has sickness, are entitled to a refund in accordance with a schedule 
on file in the Office of the Registrar.
Students dropped for low scholarship or for failure to observe rules 
receive no refund.
No refund is made to night students who withdraw for any cause,
Day students who are permanent residents of Pittsburgh and who regis
ter in consecutive years are allowed a credit of $15.00 per year. This credit 
may be deducted from the September 27th payment of the general fee.
Night students who are permanent residents of Pittsburgh,and who reg
ister in consecutive years are allowed a credit of $5.00 towards the general 
fee of $80.00.
Day students registering at the Institute on or after January 4th are 
required to pay $75.00 (regular students) and $175.00 (special students).
Day students registering after the beginning of the regular college year 
will pay the student activities fee of $10 in addition to the general fee. These 
students registering after the opening of the official college year will be re
quired to pay the students activities fee as follows. Students registering 
from September 27 t oJanuary 1, $10; students registering from Jan. 1 to 
April 1, $7.50; students registering after April 1, $5.00.
The student activities fee for night students is $5.00 and is optional. 
Recently the night student body voted unanimously to pay the student ac
tivity fee al. t he beginning of the next night school year.
Graduate students pay the same fee as the students in the regular under
graduate courses. ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar.
SUMMER COURSES
During the summer session of 1020, courses of instruction will be given 
in all the Divisions of the Institute. All courses will begin June 28. The 
courses in the Division of Science and Engineering (excepting the special 
courses for Teachers of Physics) will continue eight weeks. Those of the 
Division of the Arts, of the Margaret Morrison Division, and of the Division 
of Applied Psychology will continue six weeks. Courses given by the Division 
of Academic Studies and by the Division of Industries will continue either six 
or eight weeks, as indicated in the description of each course.----------$----------
STUDENT COUNCIL TO SELL HATS. TIES AND SOCKS.
The Student Council will take charge of the sale of Plebe hats and 
black ties and socks, to the incoming class in the fall. The proceeds are to 
go to the Athletic Fund.
5.00 (optional)
CALENDAR
June 28, Monday, 9:00-11:30 and 1:00-4:00Registration.
June 29, Tuesday, 8:30Classes begin.
July 5, MondayNational Holiday, no classes.
August G, FridayEnd of six-week courses.
August 20, FridayEnd of eight-week courses.
Students in attendance during the spring quarter who wish to enroll for 
summer courses will have their summer schedule approved and obtain their 
Permit to Register at the office of the Director or Dean of their Divisioh, 
during the week of June 14 or the week of June 21.
ATHLETIC COUNCIL BY-LAWS TO GOVERN 
INTERCOLLEGIATE SPORTS
ThetAthletic Council, according to 
Article 111., Section 1, shall have full 
control of all matters pertaining to 
intercollegiate athletics of the Carne
gie Institute of Technology. This 
Council shall consist of three mem
bers from the Faculty, three members 
from the Undergraduate body, two 
members from the general Alumni 
Federation, and two members from 
the Varsity Clan, constituting a body 
of ten members. . Clarence Overend 
is president of the Athletic Council 
and Prof. T. It. T. Aude and P. ,D, 
Good are responsible for the by-laws 
which are as follows:
By-Laws of the Athletic Council of
Carnegie Institute of Technology
ARTCLE I.
Members.
Section 1Regular meetings shall 
be held monthly during the college 
year. The first regular meeting shall 
be held within ten days of the official 
opening of the Institute.
Section 2Special meetings may be 
held upon the call of the chairman 
or the written request of any three 
members.
Section 3Six shall be a quorum 
at any meeting.
ARTICLE II.
Membership
Section 1Membership shall be as 
outlined in the Constitution.
Section 3Members are elected or 
appointed by the respective bodies 
wliic hthey represent, care being tak
en to secure members of ability and 
willingness to serve.
Section 3All members who are 
not undergraduate members shall take 
office at the first meeting in Decem
ber. Unde rgraduate members shall 
take office as specified in the consti
tution.
Section 4An Alumnus who is also 
a member of the Faculty cannot re
present the general Alumni Federa
tion or the Varsity Clan.
Section 5The graduate manager 
cannot be a member of the Athletic 
Council.
Article IIIOfficers
Section 1Officers of the Athletic 
Council shall be a Chairman and a 
Secretary elected by the Athletic 
Council.
Section 2The graduate manager 
may act as Secretary.
Section 3 Officers shall be elected 
for a period of one year at the first 
regular meeting in December.
Article IVCommittees
Section I There will be an Execu
tive Committee consisting of the Head 
of the Department of Physical Edu
cation, on; Undergraduate Member, 
and one Alumnus, the last two being 
elected by the Athletic Council.
Section 2 The Executive Commit
tee shall authorize and approve all 
matters requiring the approval of the 
Athletic Council where immediate 
action is necessary.
Section 3 All actions of the EX' 
ecutive Committee shall be brought 
before the Athletic Council at the 
next regular or special meeting for 
ratification.
Section 4Such other Committees 
as may be necessary will be appointed by the Chairman.
Section 5The graduate manager 
may be a member ex-officio of any 
Committee.
Article VGraduate Manager.
Section 1The Athletic Council 
shall appoint a Graduate Manager to 
take charge of the business interests 
of the Association under the control 
of the Athletic Council and shall de
cide his compensation.
Section 2The Graduate Manager 
shall take charge of all funds of the 
Association and shall make a detailed 
report of all receipts and expenditures 
at the last regular meeting of the 
school year and at such other times as 
the Athletic Council may direct.
Section 3TheGraduate Manager 
shall submit at the first meeting of 
the school year a budget covering the 
estimated receipts and expenditures 
for the year. Supplementary budgets 
may be submitted from time to time 
as occasion requires.
Section 4The Graduate Manager 
has no authority to use the funds or 
credit of the Association except as 
authorized by the Athletic Council. 
The approval of all or any part of a 
budget is considered as authorization 
for all items approved in that budget.
Section 5The Graduate Manager 
is responsible for all of the general 
business of the Association including 
preparation of schedules, advertising, 
purchase and care of equipment, care 
of visiting teams, trips of Varsity 
teams, and salvage of materials.
Section (1- The Graduate Manager 
shall be assisted by the various Un
dergraduate Managers who shall re
port to him and keep him fully ad
vised as to their respective depart
ments.
Article VIStudent Managers.
Seetion 1Candidates for managers
shall be called out by the managers 
at the beginning of the various sea
sons. At the close of the season, the 
Council shall elect the second assist
ant managers. At the end of the sea
son of their sophomore year, the first 
assistant manager and the manager 
of the freshmen team shall be elected 
by the Council upon the recommen
dation of the Graduate Manager, re
tiring Student Manager, and the Stu
dent Manager elect. The First As
sistant Manager shall be elected Stu
dent Manager by the Council, except 
as hereinafter provided for.
Section 2In case of there being nd 
freshmen team in any sport, the pro
vision for election of Student Man
ager shall be followed.
Section 3The Council may arbi
trarily drop any man holding the of
fice of Student Manager or First As
sistant Manager.
Section '1n case of a vacancy, the 
Council shall fill the office by a spe
cial election.
Article VIICoaches
Section 1All Coaches and Assist
ant Coaches are employed by the 
Athletic Council,
Section 2The Graduate Manager 
is responsible for including in his 
budgets suitable additional personnel 
and the employment of such as are 
authorized.
Article VIIIAmendments.
Section 1By-Laws may be amend
ed at any regular meeting by a twothirds vote of the members present 
providing that a written notice stat
ing the proposed change to the ByLaws has been sent to each member 
of the Athletic Council at least five 
days prior to the date of the meeting 
at which the vote is taken.
----------8----------
TECHS TENNIS TEAM
TASTE FIRST DEFEAT.* * *
Davis defeats Rendel in Singles.* * *
The Carnegie Tech tennis team met 
their first reverse of the season on 
June 2 and 3 at Ann Harbor, Mich., 
at the hands of the University of 
Michigan, Champions of the Western 
Conference by a score of 4-2. Rain 
on the first day cut short the matches 
and the tourney was continued until 
the next day.
Davis registered the only score in 
singles for Tech, and with Marshall in 
the doubles accounted for the Tartans other score. Pembroke, champion 
singles player of the Western confer
ence, did not play. The summary:
Singles
Munz, Michigan, beat Beatty, Tech, 
2-0,6-4, 6-2. Augell, Michigan, beat 
Stockslager, Tech, 6-1, 6-4. Davis, 
Tech, beat Rundel, Michigan, 6-3, 0-6, 
6-4. Bornstein, Michigan, beat Mar
shall, Tech, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4.
Doubles
Renngold & Munz, Michigan, beat 
Beatty and Stockslager, Tech, 6-1, 0-6, 
(i-2. Davis and Marshall, Tech, beat; 
Augol and Wootler, Michigan, 6-3, 6-2.
CARNEGIE TECH BASKET I 
BALL SCHEDULE, 1920. I
Dec. 30th. Yale here. !'
Jan. 7th. W. Virginia there. 
Jan. :10th. W. & J. here.
.Tan. 14th. Georgetown there. 
Jan. 15th. College City of 
New York there.
Jan. 22nd. W. Va. Wesleyan 
here.
Jan. 24th. W. J. there.
Jan. 28th. Westminster there. 
Jan. 29th. Grove City there. 
Feb. 3rd. Grove City here. 
Feb. 5th. Geneva here.
Feb. 12th. Allegheny here. 
Feb. 17th. Colgate there.
Feb: 18th. Rensselaer there. 
Feb. 19th. University of Bufalo there. 
Feb. 23rd. University of Bufalo here.
Feb. 26th. Georgetown here, 
Mar. 3rd. Bucknell here.
Mar. 5th. Penn State there.
IIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllUIIII!lini!!!l!ll!!!ll!lll!IIIIIU
SPECIAL NOTICE 
Get Your Register of Graduates 
NOW AT $.50
On and after July 1, 1920, the 
price will be $1.00 to alumni 
members and $2.00 to all others.
Alumni, who have not remit
ted for the copies they received, 
please do so at once, as the 
_ money for this publication was 
ff borrowed from the Institute.
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigan and Candy
WD C Pipes are certainly a mans smoke. They bring 
the smokejoy which every man seeks. Its in the 
mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or 
burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workman
ship and design. Select several shapes today at any good 
dealers. Smoke a cool one every time.
Bac luretS m oncK yks Rd19
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS- OF FINE PIPES
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
P. LUDEBUEHL AND SON
PIMN ANO FP A MKITOWN 
AVINUBO
IS.60 t* $15.00
OUT DOWN YOUR SHOE 
EXPEN8E by buying hotter 
ahooo. You will find thorn far 
ohoapor to woar than shoos 
which are not so high In quality.
Our new models for FALL and 
WINTER re now In, and they 
ars full of snapJust suitable 
for the oollefe man.
The Mellon National Bank is 
cme of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
frith care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
^???OOOOOOOOOi 
 ELLBPIELD PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH
Bellefteld and Fifth Avenwee 
Rev. Robert MaoCkwu, D.
Mlrrloter.
Preach In* Servloee 11 ond A.
Sundav sohool at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to attond o>ur services and learn to 
know oo os the wmffr**otlon 01 
"Friendly Peepl*" A hearty 
wo loom a waits 700.
???????????? 00 0000+
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD and DITHRIDQI ITRim 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES)
Sunday Softool0:45 A. M.
Social hour and Luncheon for stu
dents,115c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to ail Students.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.
Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to alL
ASCENSION EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street 
DR. WYATT IROWN, Rector 
DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, AeatotantSunday Sorrioea, 1:00 A. M., 11:00 
A. M and 8:00 P. M.
Colle* Msn's Bible doss at 10: OS, 
led by Dr. Coirla.
All Studowt* OeanlMly Wirte me.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Are. and Oralg St.
Muaea: :M, 1:00, 1:0. 19:0 uU 
11:00 A. M. oa Sundays and Holy 
Daya
Yeafors on Sundays at 7:00 P. M. 
Pw 18, Middle Aisle, for Took StUnitgf Shalcm (ttongrrgatinn
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
Samuel H. Goldenson, Ph. D., Rabbi.
Temple Study Tel., Schenley 276. 
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers nd Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
100 SIXTH STREET
010200020100020102025323235348535348914853010000015302000001010102020201000001020100020202000053480200010100020001000201020101010102

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 1920. THE TARTAN. G THREE
Athletic
Editor,
FRED L. KNOWLES
Asst. Athletic Editors 
G. R. GOODRICH 
S. P. SMITH
Carnegie Tech Now Boasts of First Undefeated Track Team in School History
Kelly, Techs 10-Second Man, to Be Sent to Olympic Tryouts
SittingNichols, Cavett, Arnold, McDonald, Cooper, Hillers, Capt. Schmidt, Russele, Kelly, Hamman, Greenlow, Merly, Hawkins. StandingManager Miller, Foster, Hough, Ferrell, Collins, Curtis, 
Code, Kalabisch, Bailey, Browbaugh, Long, Blesch, Kenedy, Coach Hazel.
The track squad of the past season 
has been the most successful that 
Carnegie Tech can boast of, being un
paralleled in the history of the school. 
They have engaged in six of the hard
est meets that have been staged in 
the Tri-State section and have come 
out without any reverses, winning 
every meet. Credit is due not only 
to Coach Hazel but the consistent 
plugging and doggedness of the men 
of the squad. Coach Hazel was the 
man who put the spirit and pep into 
the boys and they brought forth the 
results.
West Virginia was Techs first op
ponent and it was a little early in the 
season for the men to be in trim 
shape, Tech getting the verdict by a 
close margin of 65-61. Kelly in this 
meet was only able to do the 100-yard 
dash in 10 4-5. The Geneva meet 
showed up better for the Plaid men, 
the Tech men romping away with a 
90 V2 to 32% score. Kelly did the 
hundred in 10 15 and Stultz cleared 
the bar in the pole vault at 11 feet 
and barely missed setting a new school 
record at 11 feet and 5 inches. Coop
er, the little Design school plebe, 
showed his endurance by winning the 
mile and taking second in the halfmile.
The West Virginia meet was easy 
for the Plaid boys and at Allegheny 
a little more opposition was met altlio 
Tech won by a good margin. It was 
in this meet that Kelly did the 100- 
yard dash in 10 seconds fiat being 
checked by four watches. At Kennywood Park on Decoration Day, com
peting against Westinghouse Club, P. 
A. A. and several of the local organi
zations the Tartan lead their nearest 
competitior by 20 points. Last Sat
urday afternoon, by defeating Den
nison the Plaid cinder path won their 
sixth consecutive victory and have the 
honor, of being the first undefeated 
track team that has represented Car
negie Tech.
The squad this year has had to rely 
on the running events in which to 
score, being very weak in the field 
events. Every meet has been won 
only thru the track events. Kelly and 
Russel in the 100-yard dash and 220 
dash have won 72 points this season. 
Of a total of 442 points scored this 
season by the Tech running events are 
credited with almost 300. This might 
seem that the field events were almost 
on a par with the other events, but 
on a comparison on records the field 
men are very weak.
Kelly is one man whom Tech should 
send to the Olympic try-outs in Phil
adelphia next spring. In the West
ern Conference held Saturday the 100- 
yard dash was won in 10 seconds. Kel
ly has never been pushed and has done 
the 100 yards in 10 seconds and it 
is very probable that if he ran with 
some other 10-second men and was 
pushed a little he might lower the 10 
seconds. It is a chance for Tech to 
put a man on the Olympic team.
Both Kelly and Russel will be backnext year and the sprints will be 
taken care of. In the mile and halfmile Cooper, Bailey and Blesch ought 
to show great improvement for next 
spring. Miller, Greenlaw and Mc
Donald will be back for the two-mlie 
and Hiller, Nichols, Brumbaugh, Ca
vett and Code will race with them
selves in the 440 yard dash. Capt. 
Schmidt has had his four years in 
track and is ineligible next year. 
Stultz ought to get around 12 feet in 
the pole vault. Hammann in the high 
and broad jump will probably exceed 
the school record next year.
In the shot put, javelin, discus and 
hammer throw things at present look 
very doubtful altho there is material 
that might develop. Kalibasch is 
coming and under careful training 
will probably figure in some of those 
events next year.
Coach Hazel has arranged a num
ber of prizes in the form of loving 
cups, for the men this year and proba
bly some of the success is due to this. 
For every man that has won a first 
place a small 4 inch cup will be given 
To Kelly for breaking the school rec
ord and to Hamman for tying the 
school record cups will also be grant
ed. Thru a vote by the squad and 
choice of the captain and the coach
cups will be given to the men who 
have been the most consistent, have 
shown the most improvement, have 
been the most loyal, have worked the 
hardest, been the nerviest and who 
have shown the best spirit.
These cups will be awarded at a 
banquet of the three athletic teams 
on June 17 and in addition to those 
mentioned cups for the first, second 
and third man in the Panthaleon to 
be held on June 10. The Pentlialeon 
consists of five events, the 200 meter, 
1500 meter, the javelin, the discus and 
the broad jump. This requires a man 
that is both good in the field and 
track events and has been promoted 
at Tech to foster and encourage men 
to try out for the Penthaleon which 
is held at Philadelphia every year.
According to the constitution of the 
Athletic Association a letter will be 
awarded to a competitor scoring 10 
points on dual or intercollegiate meets 
of any season. Nichols, the find of 
the interclass track meet, by winning 
first place in the 880 yard run Saturday won his letter as did Bremmer 
who got second in the broad jump. 
Following are the individual scores of 
each man, Kelly leading with a total 
of 45:
Kelly ..................45
Hammann .......38%
....36
....32
....27
....24
Greenlaw ___....22
Schmidt ____....21
. ...21
Miller ................ .19
Moon ................ .18
Mertz ................ .16
....14
... .14
Bremmer. ...10
Woodward ...... 7%
.... 7
Schlumpf___.... 6
Kalibasch .. ..... 4
Brumbaugh ..__ 3
.... 2
BASEBALL TEAM SUFFERS 
THREE REVERSES ON TRIP
Rain Hinders Tartans Work 
at Penn State
Carnegie Tech was Penn States 
7th straight victim this afternoon, 
the clan of Bezdek triumphing over 
the clan of Wagner, 11 to 1. The day 
was better suited to water polo, a 
steady rain falling throughout the 
greater part of the game. Neverthe
less, the Penn State nine fielded with
out an error and the visitors never 
had a chance to win.
Wellinger pitched steady ball for 
the Blue and White, allowing but five 
hits and fanning eight, while McCaw 
was hit hard and in addition yielded 
nine bases on balls.
Haines led the Blue and White at
tack with four hits out of five times 
at bat, while Grubb and ICorb also 
batted well. Mullen added another 
home run to his total when he put one 
over the scoreboard in the seventh 
inning.
The feature from the Tech stand
point was a lightning triple play exe
cuted by Durkin, Lynn and Doherty in 
the third inning after Haines and 
Grubb had led off with singles.
The visitors only run came in the 
sixth when Oakley was hit by a pitch
ed ball, and scored on Goddens 
scorching double to left. The score:
State College.
Players. R B P A E
Mearkle, 2 ...................1 0 0 1 0
Killinger, 3.................1 12 3 0
Mullan, m.....................1 1 1 0 0
Ullery, 3 .....................2 110 0 0
Haines, 1 ......................2 4 4 0 0
Grubb, r........................1 3 1 0 0
Korb, s ..................2 2 1 2 0
Brumh, c .....................1 0 8 1 0
Mellinr, p.....................0 0 0 3 0
Totals ...................111227100
CarnegieTech.
Players.RIIPAE
Oakley, r .................10000
Doherty, 1...........01911
Durkin, 2 ...............01311Godden, 1 ...............01100
Johnston, m............00300
Lynn, s....................00360
Irwin, c ..................00231Dvileskis, 3 ...........01100
McCaw, p .............01122
Warwick, p ............00000
Totals.1 5 *23 13
*Ullery out, hit by batted ball.
Penn State .2 10 020 06 *11 
Tech ............0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 01
Two-base hitGodden. Three-base 
hitDoherty. Home run Mullan.
Sacrifice flyMellinger. Stolen bases 
Korb 2, Haines 2, Ullery 2. Double 
playLynn to Durkin. Triple play 
Durkin to Lynn to Doherty. Struck 
outBy Mellinger 8, by Warwick 1.
Base son ballcOff McCaw 9. Wild 
pitchMcCaw. Hit by pitcherOak
ley, Dvileskies. Umpire  Sefton, 
Bucknell.* * *
The Tartan baseball team suffered 
their second defeat of their trip at the 
hands of Bucknell, at Huntingdon, 
June 4, by a score of 8-10.
The Tech boys had a rough time 
in getting to Huntingdon, due to bad 
roads and poor train service, and this 
may be taken as ..one of the very ini
portant factors in Techsdownfall.
Bucknell.
R.II.P.O.A.
Calhoun, mf.................2100
Waddell, 2 .....................33::0
McDermott, 1.................0000
2i1Lenker, r .......................1220
Dents................................0045Ilickender, 1 .................0080Julian, c .........................2070Peale, p............................1100
Carnegie Tech.
276
R.II.P.O.A.
Dvileskis, 3.....................0102
Doherty, 1.........................1g130
Durkin, 2 .......................1104
Godden, 1 .......................2000Lynn, s ...........................1103Johnston, m f.................2130
Irwin, c............................0250McCaw, r .......................0120
Weiss, p .........................0000Warrick, p .....................1110.
11249
Tech ..................0 04 021 0 0 1-8
Difficulty of Winning; Letter
Increased by New Constitution
Firfc Year Men Given Gray Sweaters
The constitution of the Athletic As
sociation of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology has been recently revised, 
some noteworthy changes being made.
A committee composed of H. G.
Nichols, P. D. Good and Pop Stuart, 
appointed by the Athletic Council to 
do this work, have done excellent 
work and the constitution is now go
ing the rounds of the various As
semblies for approval.
The revision occurs mainly in Ar
ticle III., concerning insignias. The 
major C is now a seven-inch block let
ter instead of a six-inch. The v^iinor 
C has been changed from four and a 
half inches to five inches. All first 
year letter men will receive a gray 
V-necked sweater, the choice of 
sweater for following year is optional 
with the recipient. Next year it will 
be much more difficult to win a C 
than it has been in past years. The 
committee, felt in maging this change 
that at present the officials were very 
lenient in awarding letters, and they 
hope by the change that they have 
made to make the letter mean more to 
the man who gets it than it has done 
before. The head cheer leader with 
the approval of the Graduate Mana
ger will be awarded a bar and Student 
Manager of the team will receive a 
letter in accordance with the sport, 
whether it be major or minor, and 
to distinguish them as manager a bar 
will be placed across the C.
Sectin 17 refers to men that have 
been out trying for their letter per
haps three or four years, and barely 
miss having the required number of 
points. One letter in each sport may 
so be awarded by the Athletic Coun
cil upon recommendation of the coach 
and the captain
Bucknell ...........410 202 Olx10
ErrorsDoleskis 1, Dent 2, Kewstis
1, Julian 2. Two-base hitsCalhoun 
Lenker, Doherty. Three-base hits 
Ljoin, Irwin. Home runsLenker 
First base on ballsBy Warrick 4, by 
Julian 1. Hit with pitched ballBy 
Warrick 2. Struck outBy Peale 2, 
by Warrick 2.* * *
Juniata College defeated the Tech 
nine, June 3, at Juniata by a score of 
7-6. Juniata has shown great im
provement and now has a well-balanc
ed team.
Donaldson, who replaced Horton in 
the second inning pitched a great 
game of ball and held Tech scoreless 
for the remainder of the game. A 
home run by Geigher and a threebagger were the other features of the 
game.
A.E.C.HlisIj.0. 
HONOR STUDENTS
The five girls who received the dis
tinction of being chosen to the M. M.
D. honorary sorority, the A. E. C. If., 
are Mary Bechtel, Mary Louise McCaughey, Barbara Endels, Harriet 
Stone and Agnes Pifer. These names 
were announced at the Senior Assem
bly, as is the custom.
Constitution of the Athletic Associa
tion of Carnegie Institute
of Technology.
ARITCLE I.
Name.
Section IThe name of this or
ganization shall be the Athletic As
sociation of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
ARTICLE II.
Membership
Section 1Any student who has 
paid the required student activities 
fee as specified in the Institute Cata
log, is a member.
Section 2Any student from whom 
na student activities fee is required, 
who has paid an amount equal to the 
athletic fees proportion of the stu
dent activities fee, is a member.
Sction 3Any Alumnus, Member 
of the Faculty or Member of the Ad
ministration, who has paid, during 
the school year, an amount equal to 
the athletic fees proportion of the 
required student activities foe is an 
associate member.
ARTICLE III.
Control.
Section 1The Athletic Counci 
shall have the full control of all mat
ters pertaining to intercollegiate ath
letics of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Section 2The Athletic Council 
shall consist of three members from 
the Faculty, three members from the 
.Undergraduate body, two members 
from the general Alumni Federation, 
and two members from the Varsity 
Clan, constituting a body of 10 mem
bers.
Section 3Where possible 110 more 
than two members in any one of*the 
above groups shall be elected or se
lected to serve on the Athletic Coun
cil in any year
Section 4The officers of the 
Association shall be a chairman and a 
vice chairman.
ARTICLE IV.
Election of Officers
Section 1The chairman and the 
vice chairman of the Association shall 
be elected during the month of May 
from the Junior class. Nominations 
for these officers shall be made and 
published at least two weeks previous 
to the election.
Section 2Either of the abovenamed officers may be removed by 
a two-thirds vote of the active mem
bers present at any meeting.
Section 3The managers of the va
rious sports shall be elected by the 
Athletic Council immediately after 
the close of the respective seasons.
Section 4Representatives to the 
Council shall be elected or selected 
by their respective bodies. Under
graduate members shall be elected 
during the month of May or April 
and shall take office at the first meet
ing held after the official opening 0/ 
the Institute.
ARTICLE V.
Duties of Officers
Section 1- It shall be the duty of 
the chairman ta preside at all meet
ings of the Association.
Section 2He shall call meetings at 
the request of the Athletic Council, 
or upon request of a written peti
tion from 100 members of the Asso
ciation.
Section 3It shall be the duty of 
the vice chairman to fulfill the duties
of the chairman in the case of the 
absnce of the latter, 
shall have the authority to make all 
by-laws necessary for the government 
of this Association in accordance with 
this constitution.
ARTICLE IV.
Meetings.
Section 1Meetings may be called 
by the chairman of the Association.
Section 2The chairman of the 
Athletic Council shall have the privi
lege of calling meetings of the Asso
ciation.
Section 3A quorum at any meet
ing of the Association shall consist of 
one-half of the active members of the 
Association.
ARTICLE VII.
Election of Captain 
Section 1The election for the cap
tain for the varsity teams for the suc
ceeding season shall take place within 
two weeks after the close of the pre
ceding season. Only members of the 
teams, having earned their C in the 
season ujst closed, under the condi
tions stated in Artcile VIII., are qual
ified to vote in this election, over 
which the studen manager shall pre
side, and he shall cast the deciding 
ballot in case of a tie vote. Two ballote shall be cast, one for nomination 
(the twa receiving the most number 
of votes to be nominated) and one 
for election.
ARTICLE VIII.
Insignia.
Section 1The following sports 
shall be Major Sports: Football, Bas
ketball, Baseball, Track.
Section 2The major C, to bo 
awarded to competitors in major 
sports, shall be awarded as defined in 
Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 15, 16, 17, 18, 
and shall conform to the following 
specifications:
Specifications: Height, 7 inches; 
width, 6 inches. Thickness of let
ters, I Vj inches. Optside length of 
bevel cut 1 / inches. Distanco 
from bottom of letter to bottom of 
first yellow stripe 11-16 inch. From 
left side letter to left edge of yellow 
stripe, % inch. To bo only made 
from the true Carnegie Clan Plaid. 
From bottom of let ter to'top o f right; 
point of (!, 2 V\ inches.
Section 3- -Football. To each mem
ber of the Varsity football team play
ing one-half the number of games 
scheduled, or either of the two final 
games, a C shall bo awarded by the 
Athletic Council. One-half a game or more shall constitute credit for one 
game. Less than one-half shall re
ceive credit for one-half game.
Section I -Basketball, To each 
member of the Varsity basketball 
team playing one-half the number of 
intercollegiate games played during 
the season, a C shall be awarded by 
the Athletic Council. One-hall! game 
or more shall constitute credit for one 
game. Less than one-half game shall 
constitute credit for one-half game.
Section 5 Track(A). A letter 
shall be awarded to the team quali
fying within the first two places in 
the Penn relays.
(B). A letter shall be awarded for 
qualifying within the first three places 
of an intercollegiate meet; to be defind by Athltic Council.
(C). A letter shall be awarded to 
a competitor scoring 10 points on 
dual or intercollegiate meets of any 
season.
Section 6Baseball. To each mem
ber of the Varsity baseball team who 
plays two-thidrs of the number of 
games scheduled in a season and to 
each pitcher playing one-third of the 
number o fgames played during a sea
son, a C shall be awarded by the Ath
letic Council. Four and one-half in
nings shall constitute a game. Less 
than four and one-half innings shall 
constitute one-half game.
Section 7The head cheer leader 
shall be awarded a bar and major C 
each year, subject to the approval of 
the Graduate Manager of Athletics.
Section 8Upon the approval of 
the Athletic Council, the student mem
bers of the Council shall receive a bar 
and Major C at the end of each year.
.Section 9Minor Sports. .All sports 
except football, baspetball, baseball 
track, shall be minor sports.
Section 10The minor C, to be 
awarded as stated in sections 11, 12, 
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, shall conform to 
the following specifications:
SpecificationsAs shown on offi
cial C.
Section 11To any competitor in 
minor intercollegiate events, qualify
ing under the rules of the particular 
sport, a minor C shall be awarded. 
Section 12Cross Country.
Section 13To each member of the 
Varsity hockey team who plays onehalf the number of games scheduled 
in a season, when not less than five 
collegiate games are scheduled, a mi
nor C shall be a warded by the Ath
letic Council. Not less than one-half 
the playing time shall constitute a 
game.
Section 14 .Tennis. To each mem
ber of the Varsity tennis team play
ing one-half theintercollegiate match 
es scheduled in a season a minor C
FOOTBALL 
OPENS SEPTEMBER 13
Candidates to Be Limited to 
Sixty
Preparations for next years foot
ball squad are being rapidly pushed 
by Graduate Manager Ilaareu and Cy 
Unzieker, Junior Commercial, who is 
to manage the team next season. Wally StelVen has signed up for another 
three years and the Plaid team is confident of one departmnet.
Not many of last years football 
men are back. No backfield men will 
be back, altho Coach Steffen will have 
a wealth of material to pick from in 
the plebe team. Besides Red God
den, who will lead the Tartans next 
year, there will be Moon, Irwin, Roth, 
Henderson, Bloom, Flannery, II. J. 
McClean and Curtis of last years 
squad. From the Plebe team the fol
lowing men are expected: Kelly, Weitzel, Roger Marshall, a brother of Phil, 
Brumbaugh, big Roberts, Captain An
derson of the plebe team, Gibson, 
Weidlein, Williams, Albertson, Kali
basch, Griffin, Weinman, I-Iedgrin, 
Reid, McLean, McCormicl1, Hawkins, 
Fisher, Brown, Bollinger, Temmel, 
Swift and Guirmen. In addition to 
these an unprecedented influx of high 
school and prep school men arc ex
pected in the training camp. All men 
are expected to send in their applica
tion to Cy Unzieker, as the training 
camp, which will be held at Camp 
Louise Carnegie starting September
13 and lasting a little of two weeks, 
will be limited to 60 men.
The schedule for next season has 
been completed and leaves nothing to 
be desired. The first game is sched
uled at Now Haven with Yale in Yale 
Bowl All Now Englanders are ex
pected to be present at that game. 
Westminster and Grove City will bo 
easy and University of Cincinnati will 
not be hard. On October 30 the Plaid 
boys journey to Lehigh. Lehigh gave 
us a licking this year, but the Tech 
men are out to atono themselves next 
season. The Lehigh game is expected 
to supplant both the Cornell and 
Pitt games of our schedule. A special train will probably be gotten for the 
Plaid followers and every ellort will, 
bo made to send the band along on 
this trip. Bethany at Wheeling on 
November 13 ought to attract a bunch 
of followers from school and is an
other game in which the Plaid spirit 
can go abroad. The last game of the 
season is slated with VV. & .1. in Pittsburgh.
and white V-neclc sweater shall be 
awarded.
Section 15The student manager 
fo each minor sport, the manager of 
the I'Yoshmnn football team, and the 
manager of the I'Voshnmn basketball 
team shall be awarded a minor (J and bar.
Section 16 -With the first letter 
awarded to any competitor, except In 
tennis, a standard grey V-necq sweat
er, without roll collar, shall be award 
ed. 'Ihe style of subsequent sweaters 
shall be optional with the recipients.
Section 17 Special Letters, The 
Athletic Council, upon the recommen
dation of the coach and varsity capfain of a sport, may award one addi
tional letter in each sport each yeiw 
to men who have not met tile require
ments as stated in Sections .'! -5 inclu
sive, and Sections I I -15 inclusle, Ar
ticle VIII.
A minor C shall be awarded to 
any member of the cross country 
squad who finishes in at least two 
meets and upon recommendation of 
the coach and captain.
Section 18The Atheltic Council 
shall have the privilege of awarding 
special letters to coaches, and other 
cases not covered by these insignia 
rules.
Section 19With subsequent let
ters in any sport, awarded to a Var
sity man, a sweater shall be awarded.
Section 20Freshmen Insignia. Nu
merals shall be awarded to Freshman 
teams competing in interscholastic or 
intercollegiate contests as provided 
for in Sections 22, 23, 24.
Section 21Freshman Insignia
SpecificationsPlaid four-letter nu
merals. A standard grey V-neck jer
sey shall be awarded with all Fresh
man insignia.
Section 22FootbalJ> Freshman.The 
same rules shall apply to thosV* award
ing insignia as in Section 3 of this ar
ticle.
Section 23Basketball, Freshman. 
The same rules shall apply to award
ing insignia as in Section Section 4 
of this article.
Section 24Class numerals may be 
awkarded at the discretion of the Di
rector of Athletics, according to the 
following specifications: ColorThe
color of the class. SizeNot over 3 
inches. StyleBlock 2-digit numer
als to be worn on grey sweaters only.
Section 25Cancellation of Let
ters, As per old constitution,
ARTICLE IX, 
Amendment.
Section I This constitution may be 
amended by a majority vote of the 
active members of the Association, 
providing that such amendments, be
fore being voted upon, shall have been 
published two weeks preceding such 
vote.
00136608

---------------------------------------------------

come an integral part of the Federa
tion when it has filed with the Board 
of Directors a copy of a proposed con
stitution which shall not conflict in 
any detail with the constitution of this 
Federation, and when said alumni clan 
shall have accepted and ratified this 
constitution. (This does not mean 
that more than one clan may be form
ed in a city.)
dent, Keystone Building, Kathryn 
Haag, Secretary, 223 Maclay St.
JohnstownL. W. Walker, Secre
tary, 530 Coleman Ave.
New YorkG. I/. Birg ess, Presi
dent, Trimble-Burgesa Co., Woolworth Bldg. J. Guter, Secretary, Con
solidated Products Co., 48 Park Row.
Phila.L. E. Exline, President, Fi
delity & Deposit Co. of Maryland, 505 
Real Extate Trust Bldg. \A. E. Ball, 
Secretary, G26 WymwoodTload.
PittsburghD. W. Wait, President, 
-Bell Telephone Co. W. H. Norman, 
Secretary, 1618 Kensington Ave.
Extract from ConstitutionSection 
1. Any ten (10) members in good 
standing living in the same locality 
may sehd a request in writing to the 
Board: of Directors of the Alumni 
Federation to form themselves into a 
Carnegie Alumni Clan which shall beTartan to Alumni
Clans have been formed ?n *the fol
lowing cities and the Presidents or 
Secretaries may be reachei'at th fol
lowing addresses:
AkronA. C. Sprague, Secretary, 
185 Perkins St.
Buffalo, IV A. Curtiss, Seciietai;y,- 176 Maple St.
ChicagoJ. J. Kennedy, Secretary, 
3748 Wrightw'ood Ave.
ClevelandM. C. Kingsley J Secre
tary, 17817 Cannon Ave. J %
DetroitMr. Miles, Secretary, Gen
eral Steel Products Co., Dime Bank Bldg.
ErieE. F. Obert, Secretory, 1022 East Sixth St. ... 7;
HarrisburgF. J. Hjartman, PresiTn order that the graduates and former students of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology may be brought in closer touch with the cur
rent events of our Alma Mater, we have tried to find a way of financ
ing subscriptions to the Tartan for every paid-up member of the 
Alumni Association without additional cost to our members. We 
feel that the progress of Tech can be followed arid furthered by every 
Techite through the columns of the Tartan, perhaps better than in 
any other way.A special page will be kept for alumni announcements, such as 
schedules of events of the activities of the various clans; a calendar of 
events at the School which might interest the alumni; and all ques
tions oi' interest to the alumni to be brought up in this manner. The 
intention is to make thin page of the Tartan the official announce)1' of 
all alumni events, in order to cut down the expense of reaching alumni 
members. Announcements, previous to this time, have been made by 
first-clasp mail, which means has proven to be very expensive.
In order to accomplish out real purpose, we must have the sup
port of the clans and' individual alumni members in getting material, 
to be used on the alumni page, in on time. All material for issue in the 
Tartan must be in by Saturday night, previous to the Wednesday the 
issue comes out.
The School has agreed to help finance this plan to the extent of 
$500.00 and the additional funds necessary will probably be divided 
between the Athletic Association and the Students Activities.
Success of the plan is practically assured. It is now up to the 
alumni members to do their part to assure the real success of this 
purpose.
Regular monthly meetings or din
ners should be held, and as much in
terest as possible taken in these af
fairs.
Some program should be inaugur
atedTo get acquainted with all Tech 
men from your district, home for the 
summer, and if possible, getthem in
to the clan organization and see that 
they have employment along the line 
they desire.
To get in touch with all desirable 
high school men in the district, who 
might be interested in Tech, and .see 
that they receive literature from the 
school. Graduate Manager Jlaaren 
should be given at onee the address of 
all men interested.
To ket*p the Alumni-Student Place
ment Bureau notified of all desirable 
openings.
To advertise products handled by 
Tech men in your surrounding dis
trict.
To make a personal campaign 
among graduates and former students 
of Carnegie Tech to secure additional 
alumni members.
To TALK TECII 111!
ALUMNI BANQUET.
There are a number of alumni 
who have not sent in checks for 
alumni banquet tickets.. Please 
do so at once so that the ac
counts of this affair can be 
closed.
The following men were guests of 
the class; G. T. Heddaeus, J. W. Bat
man, It. E. Townsend, II. C. Ham
mann, and II. W. Schaughency.
The success of the affair is due to 
the 'efforts of the following commit
tee: W. A. I-Iuff, chairman; R. L. 
Shanno, II. E. Rea, G. M. Hayes, J. 
E. Hess.
CARNEGIE TECH 1920 
FOOTEALL SCHEDULE. 
Oct. 2Yale at New Haven. 
Oct. 9Westminster at home. 
Oct. 16Grove City at home. 
Oct. 23University of Cin
cinnati at home.
Oct. 30Lehigh at South 
Bethlehem.
Nov. 6Allegheny at home. 
Nov. 13Bethany at Wheel'g. 
Nov. 20  Washington and 
Jefferson at home.
On the night of June 1, fifty mem
bers of the Sophomore class of In
dustries adjourned to the Y. W'. C. A. 
Hospitality House, where they held 
their annual banquet. The Y. W. C. 
A. ladies acted as caterers and served 
an excellent banquet.
During the repast Lenine and Trot
skys Society Orchestra, viol in, 'cello, 
and piano, played much appreciated 
selections from Litzt, Faust, and their 
cohorts. The outstanding feature of 
the banquet was the absence of John 
Barleycorn and the customary dancer.
FEDERAL BOARD ACTIVITIES.
Last Thursday evening the Federal 
Board nine of this school met the Al
legheny and Duff nine in a very inter
esting and well-played game, on Tech 
field, both sides showed good playing 
but the nine from this school out
played the A. & D.s and defeated 
them to a score of 4 to J.
StandingCapt. Lynn, Asst Mgr. Nothion, Dvileskis, Asst Mgr. Mays, Hedlonds, Thomas, John
ston, Weiss, Oakley, Asst Mgr. Tossen, Warrick, Maver. SittingGood, Godden, Doherty, McCaw,
I-Ionus Wagner, coach; Durkin, Irwin, Moon, Fisher. 1st. rowTucker, Miller.
FINEST SWIMMING POOLTHE CAMPUS ANVILIN THE WORLD
%i#Yesdont try to stop me. It is 
my duty. And here a tear gushed 
forth, If I dont come back tell moth
er I thought of her to the last.
Well then, Alley. If you must 
then go! But while youre there try 
to get my mail too.
Open All Year and Every Day 
Pool Reserved for Women Tuesday and Thursday 
All Other Days for Men
Notice 11 Notice!!!
To whom it may concern:
The Anvil wishes to announce 
changes in policy as follows: to wit; 
namely:1st. Nothing will appear in the 
Anvil derrogatory to the career of Mr. 
Goeclder. The Anvil is a supposedly 
humorous column.
2)id. The Anvil will in no manner 
or form follow its contemporary the 
Puppet. It will positively contain at 
least one joke per issue.
3rd. The Anvil will henceforth ac
cept contributionswhen accompan
ied by a certified check.,4th. The Anvil announces the in
stallation of a new department which 
will answer any question pertaining to 
love or liniments. Dont Ouija Will 
Weegie will Ouija for you.
PITTSBURGH NATATORIUM 
540 DUQUESNE WAYSmart Spring and 
Summer Suits 
for Young Men!
Our Weakely Special. 
If Skibos Inn 
Burned down today, 
Six thousand scents 
Would pass away.
You tell em mayonnaiseIm 
dressing.
The new Spring and Summer models are particu
larly handsome and tilylishboth single and double 
breasted ! 
Serviceable, all-wool fabrics, and patterns which 
are unusually nobby ! 
Our chnin-fftore syjftem affords saving of from $5 
to $10. Satisfaction guaranteed.
Will Weegie has departed for Cuba 
after pondering over the following 
questions:
When did the Dead Sea die? 
lias our baseball coach had any 
practical experience?
Has Tech a gymnasium? If so, 
when?
The Margaret Morrison Seniors will 
not soon forget the last assembly 
which was held Wednesday, June 2. 
According to the tradition of the oc
casion, the Seniors marched to the 
Assembly Hall, where the underclass
men had already gathered. President 
Hamerschlng gave a splendid talk to 
the Seniors bringing thon a message 
of courage and inspiration.
Mrs. McKimmon, of the class of 
1910, welcomed the class of 1920 to 
the ranks of the alumni and solicited 
their wholehearted support to the 
Alumni Association.
Director Breed spoke a few words 
of appreciation of the class spirit and 
high esteem of the Senior Class, and 
introduced the representative of the 
Sophomore class, Josephine Whitney, 
who brought a sincere message of 
friendship and good wishes from the 
sister class.
The Juniors sang heartily, a song in 
honor of the departing Seniors and 
the silent token, from the Freshmen 
class, was the beautifully decorated 
hall.
DO YOU DANCE?
You may speak of brilliant damsels 
with their literary tastes,
And expand upon their graces, or 
their logic, or their waists;
You may quote a line from Shakes
peare just to show how rare theyUltra-Glass Suits, $45>ndJ|50
And.explain to me their theories just 
to show how fair they are.
You may sit with them for hours till 
youre sure youve had enough,
Or may even sit and talk all night, you 
guys who like that stuff.;
But let me have the girlie who is dazz
ling in her looks,
Who likes to stroll through Schenley 
Parkand doesnt talk of books.
Good ClothesBroad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
507 Market St., 
303-211 Smithfield St. 932 Liberty Ave.
SORANTON 
TRENTON 
TERRA HAUTE 
WILKES-BARRE 
YOUNGSTOWN
AKRON
AMSTERDAM
CLEVELAND
MILWAUKEE
READING
PITTSBURGH 
(3 stores) 
ROCHESTER 
SCHENECTADY 
SYRACUSE
The Anvil editor would like to state 
that he is open for engagements to 
stroll through the park on Tuesday, 
Wednesday, and Friday evenings from 
eight till eleven. Dont rush. The 
line forms at the left.DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alberts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.Short Story
(We include the title so that you 
will know what it is. Otherwise you 
might think we were oiling bicycle 
sprockets or decorating old bronzes.)
Aluyisius McDoodlesnitch, for he is 
the hero of our story, washed his 
hands, face, neck and so forth, brush
ed his teeth and a tear from his eye, 
and vibratiously but with much eclat 
gathered his few belongings, and 
made preparations for a long and ted
ious journey. He bit his lip, clenched 
his hand and swore that he would 
overcome all obstacles and gain his 
end no matter how awful the cost.
Finally he stood up in all his 5. ft. 
I ins. and Stetsons. Courageously he 
strolled over to his roommate and 
placed his hand upon the latters 
shoulder.
Tom, said our young hero, with 
the polka-dot necktie, Tom, I have 
decided.
God, Alley, You surely are not go
ing.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT COThe following nominations were 
made at the last meeting of the stu
dent body of the Division of the Arts 
held on May.26th, 1920. These nom
inations are for the officers for the 
student body for the school year of 
1920-1921.
President: J. G. Todd, li. M. Cros
by, Paul Simpson. 1st Vice Pres.: 
Samuel Jamison, Harry Stone, Barry
11. Dierks. 2nd Vice Pres.: Miss M. F. 
Murdock, Miss K. Sehuman. Secre
tary: J. 1). Mawhinney, Jack Cahill, 
E. IT. Hughes. Treasurer: J. D. Ma
whinney, 11. E. I )ake, Carl Reid. His
torian: Miss Winifred Cramp, L. L. 
Nusbuum. Tyler: McGowan, Dowden, 
Steen.
In addition to these nominations
E. A. Earl<?y was elected as the Arts 
representative to the athletic council.
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 1587. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.xon s
TO SERVE YOUR BEST NEEDS
r engineer 
yours now.OAKLAND 
COMMUNITY 
HOUSE
i________
U PtionM (71 A 1 Sohsnl*/ 
P. A A. 10*1* 
atwood rrnarr 
WTTUROH, PA. 
HwMheM Ood. Mov'd, St*rW,
3904 FORBES STREET 
TO HELP YOU ENJOY COLLEGE7//e master drawing pencil'
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.PATRONIZE THE TARTAN ADVERTISERS,
PAQK POURTHE TARTAN.WEDNESDAY, JUNE 9, 1920.TECH ALUMNI NEWS
