TENNIS 
BUCKNELL TS. SKIBOS 
3 P. M. TODAT
SECOND TOTE FOR 
CAMPUS QUEEN TODAT 
DO TOUR STUFF
VOL. XVII. NO. 31CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 1923
PROGRAM FOR 
SENIOR WEEK 
IS SANCTIONED
Includes Many Features 
Ball Games, Tennis Match
es, Theatre, Banquets, Dan
ces, Voyage and Picnic
EXERCISES ON JUNE 15
The program for iS'enior Week as 
formulated by the Commencement 
Week Committee being full of amuse
ment and exercise, and is a fitting 
celebration of the last week that the 
present Seniors will spend here as 
undergraduates.
The tentative program was placed 
before the Seniors of the various 
schools last week and was then ac
cepted in the following form:
Sunday, June 10.
1:00 p. m.President Bakers Re ception.
8:00 p. m.Baccalaureate Sermon. 
Monday, June 11.
10:00 a. m.Baseball game, Girl 
Seniors vs. Men Seniors.
1:00 p. m.Class meeting.
3:30 p. m.Baseball game, Pirates 
vs. Giants, Forbes Field.
8:00 p. m.Garden Party for Girls 
given by Dean Brown.
Tennis courts will be reserved for 
Seniors throughout the day.
Tuesday, June 12.
Senior voyage and picnic.
Wednesday, June 13.
10:00 a. m.  Mens swimming 
party at the Pittsburgh Athletic Asso
ciation.
1:00 p. m.Girls Luncheon Party.
3:30 p. m.Tea Dance in Union.
7:00 p. m.Mens Banquet, Lincoln 
Club.
8:00 p. m.Girls Theater Party, 
the Davis.
Thursday, June 14.
10:00 a. m.Girls Swimming Par
ty at the Pittsburgh Athletic Associa
tion.
4-6 p. m.Open house at Forbes 
Hall, Mellon Hall, and Woodlawn Dor
mitories.
(Continued on Page Two.)
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Many Novel Costumes 
Feature Poverty Day
Annual Event Celebrated By 
350 Plebes
The third annual Poverty Day is 
now a thing of the past having been 
carried out in such a way that it will 
go dowwn in Carnegie annals as the 
one big event of the year outside of 
Campus Week.
Three hundred and fifty Plebes took 
part in tho celebration which lasted 
from eleven-thirty to one-thirty last 
Wednesday, and one would not be far 
wrong in saying that three hundred 
and fifty different costumes were 
shown. Many novel costumes not seen 
in past Poverty Day exercises ap
peared. Two Barney Googles with 
their Spark Plugs were on hand, one 
each from Industries and Science, and 
a fierce rivalry sprung up immediate
ly. A race between the two was 
scheduled but due to the breaking 
down of one of the contestants, the 
race was cancelled.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Two Prominent Scientists 
Lectured at Carngie Tech
Two noted scientists, Dr. R; A. 
Millikan of the California Institute of 
Technology, and Dr. Zay Jeffries, a 
Metallurgical Engineer from Cleve
land, gave lectures in 218 Science on 
the 27, 30 and 1st.
Dr. Millikan, who spoke on April 27, 
discussed Some Successes and Some 
Failures of the Electron Theory, first 
giving a general summary of the 
theory as it now stands . and then 
pointing out specific instances which 
it does not adequately explain, as the 
ionization at high altitudes and the 
(Continued On Page Two.)
NEWLY ELECTED SHILLING 
STAFF TO PUBLISH NEXT
ISSUE IN NEAR FUTURE
The newly elected Shilling staff, 
having successfully commenced oper
ation, expects to place its first issue 
of the magazine on sale about May 
30. This number will be given over 
mainly to the poets on the campus.
If you write verse of any descrip
tion, send a sample of it to the Shill
ing in care of the Margaret Morrison 
Office. If you do not write verso but 
like to read it, remember the Shilliug 
of the thirtieth.
If you care to have no dealings 
with the Muse, there will be other 
things of equal importance in the is
sue. Under no circumstances will it 
be safe to negueet buying a copy.
PARTIAL ELECTION 
RETURNS GIVEN OUT
Final Results Not Available 
Until New Ballot is Held 
For Majority
The election of class officers for 
next year has been a very) difficult 
task. In every school at least two 
elections had to be held in order that 
a majoority could be obtained. This 
was especially true in the College of 
Fine Arts and Industries. Returns 
from some of these "run off elec
tions were not available at the time 
the pa.p'er went to press, and as a 
result only partial results are given 
for some of the schools.
The elections made to date are as 
follows:
(Continued on Page Four.)
ELECTRICALS TO HOLD 
BANQUET AT CHATHAM
Electrical engineering students of 
all four classes will turn out for their 
annual banquet at the Chatham Hotel 
tomorrow evening at 7:00 oclock.
Professor Dennison will act as 
toastmaster and will introduce two 
speakers who have been secured for 
the occasion. The committee has 
planned various surprises for the af
fair and judging from the sale of tick
ets to date every student in the elec
trical department as well as all the 
faculty of that department will be 
present.
The banquet is being held under the 
auspices of the Carnegie Tech Branch 
of the A. I. E. E. but all Electrical stu
dents are eligible whether a member 
of the A. I. E. E. or not. All Plebes 
(Continued on Page Four)
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
MYSTERIOUS NIGHT HELD
LAST FRIDAY EVENING
Mysterious night was held last Fri
day night in the studios and corridors 
of the Painting and Illustration and 
Applied Arts Departments of the Col
lege of Fine Arts.
The atmosphere was positively art
istic. A long dark tunnel had to be 
passed to enter the region of activi
ties. The lights were dimmed. Car
toons and funny pictures were posted 
in various places. Several of the 
teachers and upper classmen were 
weirdly costumed. All were costumed 
in smocks. The Collegiate Imps 
played and even learned a new piece 
for the occasion.
TEA DANCE N UNION MAY 17
FOR ACQUAINTING SENIORS
The Commencement Week Commit
tee annouhce^:, that a tea dance will 
be held in the Union in the afternoon 
of May 17. for the purpose of get
ting the Seniors better acquainted 
with each other, so that they shall 
net be complete strangers when the 
Commencement Week program gets 
under way and when they shall sub
sequently leave their Alma Mater. It 
will be a great chance for the for
mation of friendship which will help 
and cheer when some day whitewhiskered alumni come back and 
say: Youth was different in my day. 
If this dance is successful, another 
will be held Friday, June 1.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Auto Thieves Take Toll of Two;
Tireless Trailing Discloses Clue
Rambunctous auto thieves consti
tute the latest menace to the lawabiding Carnegie Techites, having ab
sconded with two cars in a similar 
number of days last week, and dis
playing that degree of ill breeding 
which is so offensive to the college 
man, by wrecking one of them and 
failing to return the other.
Harry R. Graham, instructor of 
Plumbing and Pipe Fitting, who was 
formerly a plumbers assistant, first 
missed his car about 5 p. m., but 
thinking he had forgotten it some
where, per usual, was not greatly 
alarmed. Mr. Graham formerly rode 
a motorcycle to school, untli he made 
considerable cash by his discovery 
that the same results are obtained 
when the fitting iB held and the pipe 
is turned as when the pipe is held 
and the fitting is turned in the oppo
site direction.
Hence, Mr. Graham owned a Chev
rolet last week and now owns a 
wreck. The police had been notified 
that a car was abandoned on North 
Bessemer street, Oakmont, and when 
Graham returned home discovering 
his car still missing, they enlightened 
him as to his cars probable location 
at his query. Further investigation 
disclosed the Chevrolet with the 
front end badly damaged.
The other victim was "Buckets 
Bell, basket ball player, who reported 
his car stolen on Monday, April 30, 
after parking it on Woodlawn avenue. 
Up to date the car has not been re
covered.
Take notice, therefore, all ye fortunates that own cars, and practice 
more caution. Remember, this is a 
co-educational institution, and a word 
to the wise is sufficient.
FIFTEEN CARNEGIE TECH QUEENS
Left to rightLillian Coleman, Helen Gordon, Helen Schade, Peg Harmon, Eleanor Schomberg, Ann Stew
art, Eleanore Craver, Ann Weber, Priscille Allison, Katherine Allen, Nadene McLenahan, Lenore Davies, Ruth 
Barton, Katherine Elsemann, Ray Fine.
Heavy Voting Attended By Vehement Stump Speeches 
Characterizes Nominations For Queen of Campus Week
The fight is on!
The primary elections for the 
Queen of Campus Week were held at 
the assemblies at all four schools last 
Wednesday, and fifteen girls were 
nominated. The fifteen highest were 
as follows: Priscilla Allison, Kathe
rine Allen, Ruth Barton, Lillian Cole
man, Eleanore Craver, Lenore Davies, 
Katherine Eisamann, Ray Fine, Helen 
Gordon, Margaret Harmon, Nadine 
McLenahan, Helen Schade, Eleanore 
Schomberg, Anne Stewart, and Anno 
Weber. The list as published here is 
arranged in alphabetical order, and 
not according to the number of votes 
received.
The voting was very heavy, espe
cially in Science School, where the 
number of votes was very little below 
the total enrollment.
The race for honors among tho
candidates was close, and the first 
twenty-one girls were bunched for 
honors when the votes were counted. 
A recounting of votes was necessary 
to finally determine the girls who 
were to be voted upon at tho next 
election.
In contrast with last years election, 
there was practically no stuffing of 
tho ballot boxes. There was no less 
enthusiasm on that account, however, 
and many men took their placos by 
tho boxes, making stump speeches for 
their particular idols.
It is rumored ,that at least three of 
the candidates .iiave been sponsored 
by different fraternities on tho 
campus, and there will bo some hot 
times when the final voting is hold.
In order to bring the number of can
didates down to a convenient number, 
a second preliminary election will be 
held at the assemblies of May 9, and
Campus Queen to Be 
Honor Guest at Frolic
Coronation Dance Added Feature For Campus Week
A new feature of this year's Campus 
Week is the Coronation Dance which 
will follow the Coronation of tho 
Campus Queen on Thursday night. 
The coronation, which was a part of 
the Mardi Gras last year, will be a 
separate function this year.
Many objections have been raised 
in previous years to the wearing of 
costumes in broad daylightdue to 
daylight saving timeby those who 
wished to attend both the coronation 
and the Mardi Gras.
The solution is the Coronation 
Dance, an informal dance, to be held 
simultaneously in the 'Union, Arts 
Foyer, and Langley Laboratory, with 
an assessment of one dollar. Corona
tion tags may be had at the door 
which will admit the bearer to any of 
the dancing floors.
The dance will begin at nine and 
last till one. The Collegiate Six will 
play in the Arts Foyer, the Tartan 
Entertainers in the Union, and the 
(Continued on Page Four)
Episcopals to Hold Second 
Meeting at Church Room
The Episcopal students and faculty 
will hold their second meeting in the 
church rooms of the Church of the 
Redeemer, 5700 Forbes street, next 
Sunday, May 13th, at 5:30 p. m. Sup
per will be served. The purpose of 
this meeting is to elect officers and 
to plan the work for next year. All 
who are interested in the church's 
work as especially regards the college 
student are expected to be there.
At the last meeting held jointly 
with the students from Pitt a consti
tution was adopted and this will form 
the basis of organization. As there 
may only be this, and one more meefcing before the close of school it Is im
portant that everyone be out to pre
sent their ideas on the subject of 
study for next year, so that the pro
gram committee may report at the 
last meeting.
LETTERING PRIZE AWARDS
MADE TO TWO ARTS GIRLS
Two pdizes were offered to the class 
in Advanced Lettering by Porter Gar
nett, for the best specimens of letter
ing. The first prize, consisting of 
Frederic W. Goudys book The Alpha
bet, was won by Thelma Leatherman 
and tue second prize, Goudys Ele
ments of Lettering, ^by Margaret 
Vance.
R. O. T. C, DANCE
On Friday, May 11, tho R. O. T. C. 
unit will hold a Tea Dance In tho 
Union. It will be held according to 
tho new rules regulating such affairs; 
that Is that both members of tho cou
ple will be taxed, each paying 25 cents 
or one paying 50 cents, depending up
on tho nature of the couple. Tho 
proceeds are to bo used to holp tho 
R. O. T. C. meet the bill which tho 
Thistle so kindly sont In for the pic
tures of the Unit which are to appear 
in that journal. The Collegiate Imps 
will furnish the music for tho occa
sion, and if It doesnt rain tho affair 
will be a brilliant one. Como and 
bring your neighbors.
ANNUALMARDIGRAS 
ON FRIDAY MAY 25
Dancing From Nine to Two, 
in Union, Arts Foyer, 
and Langley Lab.
The annual Mardi Gras will be held 
Friday night of Campus Week, from 
nine till two, in the Union, Langley 
Lab, and Arts Foyer and is expected 
to show ol New Orleans a thing or 
two in the carnival line.
No one will be admitted without a 
Campus Week tag and a costume, 
these being the sole requisites. The 
costumes may suit the owners means, 
desires, or ability and are not liable 
to censoring although the Plebes 
would look better even if not so na
tural, if they left their poverty day 
costumes at home.
To aid in keeping time and add lo
cal color, the Collegiate Six will syn
copate in the Arts Foyer, HarrisonHollins will function similarly in the 
Union, and the Collegiate Imps will 
be in the Langley Lab.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Prof. Work Will Address 
Radio Club This Evening
At 7:30 p. m. today tho regular bi
monthly! meeting of tho Radio Club 
will be held in Room 104, Machinery 
Hall. Professor Work will speak on 
the subject of Capacity and Induct
ance. All students interested In 
Radio, whether club members or nor, 
are cordially invited to be present.
The transmitting set of the club In 
Welch Hall is being operated under 
the license 8 C. G. P. Despite the 
limited power10 wattsthe range of 
the set has been steadily increasing 
from the first night it was operated. 
With proper conditions, no difficulty 
(Continued on Page Four.}
the threo high girls will, bo tho final 
candidates for the honor of boing the 
Queen of Campus Week.
This election is moro important 
than tho last in that all tho girls havo 
large followings, and eliminations 
will bo mado by small margins.
Remember, fellows, your Queen Is 
going to need every voto sho can mustor in order to remain in tho rnco, so 
see that you voto today. Incidpntly 
thoro is no law against soliciting 
votes, or oven buying them.
If you didn't voto last timo, voto 
today.
If you havo no queen of your own. 
adopt somo othor follows quoon, and 
glvo her your support.
Romombor, the Quoen is to bo se
lected for her beauty, her polso, lior 
popularity, and tho fact that sho Is 
representativo of tho girls of Carnogio Tech.
Old Man P. R. to Be 
Buried on May 24
Plebes Anxiously Awaiting 
Qualification Day
It has always boon tlio custom at 
Carnegio Tech, as at every othor In
stitution wlioro Froshmon regulations 
aro enforced, to sot asldo ono day at 
tho oloso of tho year whpn thoso reg
ulations aro laid asldo forovor, as far 
as tho Freshmen tlion in school aro 
concerned. This day at Carnoglo 
Tech is known as Qualification Day. 
It takes this name because the Frosh
mon who have successfully passod 
through ono year of regulations havo 
qualified to take their place In tho 
Carnegie Clan.
This year Qualification Day will 
take place May 24. The procession 
will form in front of Design School 
and march very solemnly to the burial 
ground. The Kilty Band will lead the 
funeral procession followed by the 
body of P. Regulations. Following 
the casket will be the mourners. They 
will all march down Woodlawn ave
nue to Forbes street, then down 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Eleven R. 0. T. C. Men 
Are Shot During Drill
Eleven Sophomores of the R. O. T. 
C. were shot last Thursday during 
the drill period upon the direct or
ders of Major Bragdon, but no cas
ualties occurred.
The men were called, while in 
drill formation, and marched under 
guard of Lieutenant Anderson to the 
surgery where Dr. Marks systematic
ally Bhot them in the left arm, one 
by one.
Fortunately all of *lhe men survived 
and apparently sufferedi no permanent 
Injury,, although several did not ap
pear in school the next day.
The chosen men will be shot twice 
more and tho plucky survivors will 
be permitted to go to the R. O. T.
C. camp this summer.
Colonel Cunningham, In comment
ing upon tho situation said. We hal;o 
to do It, but tho government can't af
ford to have anybody dlo In camp. 
Funeral services aro so expensive 
now, and anyone that Dr. Marks cant 
kill will live to be a hundred.
Tho Innoculatlon was for typhoid, 
paratyphoid, dysentery, etc., most 
of the fellows stating that they had 
a pretty severe case of tho latter the 
following day, and hope to be truly 
immune from such disorders here
after.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
MARGARET MORRISON
ALUMNAE ASSOCIATION 
HOLD ANNUAL CARD PARTY
The' annual card party of the Mar
garet. Morrison Alumnae Association 
which was held on Saturday after
noon, April 21, in the dining room 
at Kaufmanns was one of the most 
enjoyable occasion of the year.
Tho object of the "benefit was to 
obtain funds for the two I'ull-tuition 
scholarships which will be awarded 
to upperclass girls in the Margaret 
Morrison College. The loyal support 
of the alumnae and -friends cheered 
the hearts of the committee and as
sured the attainment of their goal. 
Sixty-six tables were filled. The 
many beautiful prizes that were 
awarded were donated by friends of 
the association and by leading stores 
in the city. Home-made candy was 
sold during the afternoon.
INTER-FRATERNITY 
SMOKER MAY 19
All Greek Letter Men on the 
Campus Are Invited to 
Attend
An inter fraternity smoker will be 
held in tho Union Saturday, May 19, 
in order to bring all the fraternity 
men on the campus togothor.
Tho Pan-I-Iellenlc council from Pitt 
will be present, and all men whose 
fratornltios aro not represented on 
tho campus are also invited.
Stunts will bo put on by each frat. 
an orchestra, will bo secured, and the 
customary feed will be provided.
It Is hoped to raako this a big sue!- 
cess and establish another annual 
event of tho typo to which students 
look forward.
DISCUSS SORORITIES IN 
M.M. ASSEMBLY TODAY
Tho Magglo Murplis aro somowhat 
troubled In mind thoso days. The 
girls aro all trying to niako up their 
minds as to their attitude towards a 
big ciuostlon which lias arisen and 
only a I'ow of thom so far havo boon 
able to make a decision.
Agitation for and against tho ques
tion of permitting sororities in M. M. 
has boon carried on to a slight extent 
In tho past; week, and somo action may 
crystallize al; the assembly today In 
which tho question will bo fully dis
cussed from both viewpoints.
Tho question was Introduced by 
Doan Brown at tho regular M. M. 
Assonibly two wooks ago. Miss 
Brown, although a sorority woman 
herself, is not In favor of sororltlos 
In M. M. bocauso of the gonoral offoct 
on thtv students as sotting up too much 
of a falso prejudice In favor of tho sor
ority girl, and bocauso of the oxponso. 
Following Miss Browns talk, sovon.l 
girls from Arts roprosonting tho threo 
Art School sororltlos prosontod argu
ments In favor of throwing the school 
open to sororltlos. They laid stress 
upon tho fact that tho bond between 
tho two schools would bo strength
ened, that scholarship would bo bettorod, activities stimulated, more in
terest would bo shown in tho school 
by tho alumnae, and that until thoro 
aro aororitloa In M. M. thoro could bo 
no nationals on tho Campus.
Further discussion was to have 
been carried on during tho Wednes
day and Friday noon hours but the 
discussion was postponed bocauso of 
the Povorty Day celebration and the 
elections Today's assembly will be 
thrown open for discussion of the 
question and most of the girls are 
planning to presont their views at 
that time.
The majority of tho girls seem to 
be undecided. Dorothy Gjant, presi
dent of tho Asaenibly; Princilla Alli
son, President of the Senior Class; 
Edith Warren, President of the Soph 
Class, and Barbara White of the 
Plebe Class, stated that they are on 
the fence in the matter, being as yet 
undecided on thoir attitude. Dot 
Smith, President of the Soph Class, is 
ono cf those in favor of sororities and 
her views are shared by Betty Pratt. 
Betsy Lindsey, Constance Kerwin, 
Jane Markell (President of the Junior 
Class). Virginia Atchison, iSarah May 
Everett, and Mary Rulisill. Among 
(Continued on Page Four)
CAMPUS WEEK 
SHOW TICKETS 
ON SALE MAY 13
No Tickets Sold Unless Cam
pus Week Tag is Presented. 
Students Asked to Attend 
Night Performance
NO GROUP SALES
Business Manager Cunningham, of 
tho Campus Week Show, has an
nounced that tho tickets for tho per
formances will be on sale by the thir
teenth of the month. All seats will 
sell for one dollar.
All prices are quoted with the agree
ment that 110 ticket can be obtained 
without presenting a Campus Week 
tag. In order to prevent monopolies 
and hard feelings, and to insure an 
equal chance for everyone, there will 
bo no fraternity groups, and not more 
than four tickets will be sold to one 
person. The plans are being complet
ed to place a ticket office tent at the 
end of the cut and on tho Arts School 
Green; and to keep the office open 
throughout the rush hours for the 
week of the thirteenth, and every day 
during tho following week, until 
Campus Week. This is to avoid the 
trouble of patrons having to climb to 
tho Union, or to make it otherwise in
convenient for thom to procure tick
ets.
It is liopod that tho students will 
try to arrange to attend tho evening 
performance, as tho afternoon show is 
lntondedj to 1)6 for the Pittsburgh pub
lic. Tills fact Is to bo broadcasted 
throughout tho section, and tho com
mittee earnestly desires tho mombora 
of tho student body to comply with it. 
Toll all your frlonds to attend tho af
ternoon show, and then you attend 
cho ovonlng performance.
Rohoarsnls aro undor way for tho 
production, and Mr. Stevens Is per
sonally supervising tho work, having 
glvon ui) ovorything elso to holp nialco 
tho show' a succoss. Harry Hamilton, 
tho author, lias fjuocbpded In finishing 
his academic work'for some time in 
tho future, so that ho can devote all 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Girls Use Kiddy-Kars 
In New Sweepstakes
Prize to Be Awarded For Most 
Unique Costume Worn
Tho girls swoopVitakus la going to 
bo a. drossy afllalr. It has boon docldod to award! a prize to tho most 
unlquo design In costumes for till 
would bo more easily accomplished 
than to attempt; to judge klddy-kars.i
ill would allow tho girls to show tholr 
invonlivo skill' 111 a lino which Is 
particularly well suited1 to thom, No 
doubt tho fancy gowns will be a. 
great hlndoranco to the speed of 
tho contestant but that Is only an
other problem for them to work out.
Tho girls moo will start .In front 
of tho Central Building thence down 
Woodlawn avenue to Skibo Inn and 
return. A new crow will take ovor 
the carroerlng Klddy-Kar at Skibo.
(Continued on Page Four.)
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Reference Books Given 
Carnegie Hut Library
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
During the past year the Library 
has been the recipient of two inter
esting sets of books as gifts from 
religious organizations.
The Catholic students of Carnegie, 
with the aid of the publisher, have 
recently placed in the Library a new 
set of the Catholic Encyclopedia, a 
reference work In seventeen volumes. 
It is a valuable aid to students doing 
any general reference work.
The Menorah Intercollegiate Socie
ty presented a collection of about 
thirty-five new volumes of Jewish 
History, Literature, Ethics and Lit
urgy.
The librarian wishes to express her 
(Contlnuod 01^ Page Four.)
Mme. Spaghetti, Scientific Sooth
sayer, Swings Seance in Science
By T. S. Reppller.
(No relation to Horatio Alger.)
Carnegje Tech was honored last 
Wednesday at 3:07 p. m., by a visit 
from the well known happy medium, 
Mrs. Spaghetti, who made a special 
trip from her home In Cork, India, 
to vli'l.t the Institute and tell a few 
fortunes. Mrs. Sphagotti Is noted all 
over tho world for her remarkable 
gift of keeping a straight face during 
the times she is telling various and 
sundry facts about the pfaat, present 
and future.
Who Killed Cock Robin?
Encasod In her regal robes, and to
tally surrounded by Camel smoke and 
gin, Mrs. Spaghetti let it be known 
Wednesday that she would receive 
callers and. tell her bost ones at 4:30 
p. m. In the Morganic Chemistry Lab. 
of Science,\ next to the grain alcohol
Etororoom. The report when call
ing, found her clad In a green silk 
kimona, bordered with question and 
exclamation marks, and after a short 
visit of Inspection to tho storeroom, 
proceeded to lake down a few of the 
questions and answer from various 
eager seekers;
Q.What has happened to tho 
Senior iFence?
A.Hugh Sprlnklo Is using It for 
a walking stick.
Q.Did I pass my Math quiz?
A.No, not by two rows.
Q.Who will be Quoon of tho May?
A.Bart Munhall.
Q.When will the new gym bo 
finished?
A. When pretzels are mado square.
Q.Is Skibo Inn a good restaurant?
A.Its all Greek to me.
Q.Will I ever graduate?
(Continued on Page Two.)
i

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 1923
Published every week by undergraduate of tho Carnegie Inutltute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the l^oBtofllce of Pittsburgh as Bocond-clttBB matter!'
VICTOR, H. STROMQUIST .................................................................... Editor-in-chief
TelephoneHlland 858.il D. SONNEMANN llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Business Managor
Telephonor-rSchonloy 9211BDW. A. BRAND...................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 0148
KENNETH ARNOLD .............................................................................. ABBOClate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON......................................................................................... Associate Editor
H. F. DIETER..................................................................................................Associate Editor
PROG AM FSENIAMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMNWKC Editor
TelephoneHazel 9898
TOIF DM APnclMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM MMMNWKC Editor
TelephoneHlland 8118-J
FRED T. PI-IELPS..............................................................................................News Editor
TelophonoSchenley 9102
H. H. WILSON .............................................................................,...... Athletic Editor
TelophonoHazel 0866
R. P. HAY .......................................................................................................... Photographer
R. B. KELLER........................................................................................... Exchange Editor
E. P. CO USE, m............................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. ItEPPLIER............................................................................................. Special Writer
W. B. CUNNINGHAM .................................................................  Advertising Manager
TelephbneSchenley 9211
J. C. MAJOR  .......... ...........................................................  Circulation Manager
TelophonoSchonloy 9102 
* EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Eleanor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, 
Ji. D. RIchardB, A. F. Andrews, B. DoMaro, E. G. Elglo, A. E. Krogh, I. H. 
iBaaco, R. G. Konnody.
ATI I LET] C CO NTRIB U TORS
E. C. Frazier, J. II. Ferguaon, G. E. Jacoby, J. ChrlBtoff, II. P. Rossback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
T. J. Dompaey, J. B. Laudlg, D. Moskovlt/,, J. W. Notro, P. W. Itellly, II. 
GibBon, P. Edle, it. L. Sandrock, B. Broudy, II. Urachel, D. Ray, E. L. Reevoa, 
A. Grodnor.
The Edltor-in-Chlof la roBponaiblo for tho policy of tills paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomoB all communlcatlona of student IntereBt, if signed. 
Signature will be withhold If desired. All nows items must bo In the studont 
, postoilleo before 4:30 Friday.
I Tartan OillceRoom G-A, Industries Building. Offlce hoursTuesday, 
11: HO to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
THE SORORITY QUESTION
Tho ultimate decision arising out of the present discussion on 
tho advisability oil sororities in Margaret Morrison will not only 
have a definite bearing on tho nationalization aspirations oi! local 
sororities in the College of Fine Arts, but -will place Carnegie Tech 
in a very definite light with regard to other American institutions 
of learning.
The question must be discussed purely from the standpoint of 
\ its bearing on the school. Although it is true that the vote ultimately 
rests with tho co-eds of Margaret Morrison College, the question is 
of four school interest, inasmuch as a decision for or against sorori
ties in Margaret Morrison will place Carnegie on a definite plane in 
the collegiate Greek letter world.
At the present time local sororities in the College of Fine Arts 
are being rejected by petitioned nationals on the basis that the girls 
of Margaret Morrison are not eligible for membership in any soror
ity. Existing conditions have resulted in a standstill in the national
ization activities in the College of Fine Arts and a decision on the 
question at hand will have a groat bearing on conditions in that 
school.
Sororities exist in the majority of co-ed institutions in America 
and representative sororities at Carnegie will undoubtedly serve to 
place Carncgio on a basis of oquality with other institutions in this 
, respect. Just as prominent national fraternities lend prestige to an 
institution obtaining chapters so it is reasonable to assume that the 
establishment of local chapters of tho Btronger national sororities 
will produce tho samo result.
Studying tho proposition from another angle the question of "a 
democratic CarnegioV comes up. We aro working for the main
tenance and fiu'thcr promotion oil a democratic spirit among the stu
dents. With that in view it is essential that before sororities are 
permitted in Margaret Morrison it must be definitely decided that 
their expansion into that school will in no way limit the growing 
democratic tendencies on the campus.
Tho sorority question is important. It necessitates careful study 
and the ultimate decision should be from a truly democratic Car
negie Tech  standpoint.
Student Calendar
GRAPH1CA ELECTS 
NEW ^OFFICERS
E. U. Sowers Jr. is Chosen 
President of Club For 
New. Year
Tho Graphlca elected Its officers 
for next year at a banquet hold last 
Friday r.vonlng at the Bird Cage! 
The presentation of a completed TrJp 
Book to tho club by the committee oil 
production, and music furnished by a 
liomo-taleiit orchestra were other fea
tures of tho evening.
Edwin U. Sowers II., was unanim
ously chosen to head tho Graphlca for 
tho yeaV 1028-1024. Ills election is 
tho result of unceasing efforts for 
the club in tho throe years he lius 
been a member. Elnar Rygg, twoyear student, Was selected for the of
fice of vice president. Fred T. Phelps 
and Marcus A. Donohue were re
elected to the offices of secretary and 
treasurer, respectively.
Elections followed' an amendment 
to the constitution which changed the 
method of Meeting. Tho former 
method required that nominations he 
made by a committee and posted for 
a week in the department, while the 
change allows for nominations and 
elections during onei meeting. Tho 
amendment which was Introduced 
two weeks ago was passed at the 
banquet.
Tho Trip Book, which is an ae 
count of the inspection tour taken by 
the Graphlca during the Easter vaca^ 
tion of 1922, was formally presented 
to the Graphlca by Edwin U. Sowers, 
chairman of tho Production Commitlee. Ono cop'y was entirely com
pleted and was Inscribed with the 
^Ignaturos of all members present, it 
udC to 1)0 placed in the library of the 
club. Two hundred copieB of the 
lboolc are being bound at present and 
tho edition will probably bo com'pleted within a few days. ,
The greater part of the evening was 
,glven over to entertainment furnished 
by members of tho organization. The 
Senior class, consisting of Kenneth 
^Inlay, Frank Treschel, Alex Dittler 
-and Nelson Allen, gave a parody on 
tho dedication of the Laboratory 
Press, an event which took place In 
the Fine) Printing Department a ffew 
weeks ago In which Dr. Baker pulled 
the first impression from tho press. 
The Seniors interpretation of the 
evonl was very amusing, especially to 
those who had seen the real, event.
Mr. Martin, honorary member, gave 
an interesting speech on cort/ain 
phases of Ichthyology. Accounts or 
his fishing experiences and his ilsh 
stories aro always of interest to tho 
'Graphlca members. Professor Hoyle 
land Mr, Crooch also said a fow 
words.
Music was furnished by an im
promptu orchestra of six, consisting 
of Gill, piano; Smith, horn; Donahue, 
saxophone; Van Atta, banjo; Babr, 
banjo, and Bankier, drums. Thanks 
aro due thoso men, especially thoso 
who aro not members of tho Graph
lca, for tholr services during Hie 
evening.
Tho committee in chargo of tho 
ovening consisted of Einar Rygg, 
chaliVnan; Frank Powers and William 
O. Gwyor.
THE AIM OF COLLEGES
Colleges aro not for tho exclusive* 
benefit of the few fortunate individ
uals who may happen to attend them; 
they are for tho moral support of so
ciety and for tho maintenance of the 
state. While some Individual may not 
benefit directly, every individual bene
fits indirectly.
if our colleges have yielded to the 
spirit of commercialism, If they have 
swung away from their original moor
ings of liberal culture, they have, to 
somo extent, ceased to fulfil their 
original purpose of supporting the 
foundations of government and relig
ion. The hasty conclusions by those 
who aro on the outside are not to be 
given too much weight. But there is 
considerable public opinion, which is 
by no means lacking in expression 
that there is a tendency in some of 
our colleges to too much criticism of 
tho administration of government and 
too little attention to the examination 
arid demonstration of the soundness 
of the fundamental principals of free 
institutions. There is some feeling, 
too, that they aro not giving effective 
instruction in the truths of religion.
The main emphasis of our educa
tional institutions should be the 
soundness' of the fundamental princi
ples of free institutions. Self-govern
ment, the rule of the people is a final
ity. There Is only one substitute that 
can be made for it, and that is the 
rule of a part of the people. Colleges 
were not founded to support govern
ors;, they were founded to support the 
government. If they fail in that they 
fail in one of their chief purposes.- 
Florida Alligator.
HONORS
W RON MSI) AY, MAY 0
Assemblies- M. M. 0. 0...........................................11:30, Assembly Hull
College of .Fine Arts.........................11:30, Arts Theater
College o.l! ilpngiuooring........................II:!{(), 218 Science
College o;l! Industrie^.........................12:110, .101 Industries
'IViinis- -Carnegie vs. Buelcuoll.............................3:00, Carnegie Courts
Tea .Dance Freshmen (tentative).......................4:80, Carnegie Union
THURSDAY, MAY 10
Tot mis-Carnegie vs. Michigan..................................Ann Arbor,. Mich
DramaTwo Plays.........................................................................................-..............8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MAY 11
TennisCarnegie vs. Oborlin............. ...............................Oborlin, Ohio
DramaTwo Plays .....................................................4:00, Arts Theater
8:15, Arts Theater
Dance^-Ri. O. T. C. Tea (tentative)....................4:30, Carnegie Union
DanceInter-Fraternity, Formal.....<..................0 00, Hotel Schenley
DanceFreshman Scholarship (tentative)..........9:00, Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, MAY 12
Hike Mid-West Club.............................................1:30, Central Building
Track MeetCarnegie vs. Ohio State.....................2:15, Carnegie Oval
TennisCarnegie vs. Western Reserve........ ............Cleveland, Ohio
DanceD. A. V. W. W..........................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, MAY 13
RecitalDepartment of Music....................................................................-..............8:15, Arts Theater
MONDAY, MAY 14
TennisCarnegie vs. Michigan...........................3:00, Carnegie Courts
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, MAY 14 AND 15
DramaNight School Pla3rs................... ...................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, MAY 17,18 AND 19
RecitalDepartment of Music...................................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, MAY 24, 25 AND 26Campus Week
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW
TICKETS ON SALE MAY 13
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
his attention to the play and its pro
duction. Ohio Newman, with noth
ing olso to do but run tho vaudeville, 
is running around botwoon tho Dob* 
hll an til doop Blow Sea as ho puts 
It, for ho is trying to attend rohenr* 
sals and run his vaudeville rohearsala 
at the aamo time. However, ho can
not shirk his position as Head Cullud 
Fellah In tho Campus Woolc Show. 
Peg I-Tannon Is having her troubles 
running from tho oloetlon olllco to 
rehearsals, for sho Is up for Queen of 
Carnegie and the EoTio of Tucks loo, 
both at the'same time. Tho ones who 
have seen the script say that it is the 
hest ever, and that it is going to ho 
the biggest and best thing of its kind 
ever done by a Carnegie Tech com
pany.
Obie Newman, in the midst of his 
chasing from the Blew sea to the 
"Inferno stopped long enough to say 
that Herb Polesie and Hardie Al
bright are putting their heads to
gether and working out a stunt for 
tho "vaudeville. If anyone failed to 
see Herb as Biondello in The Taming
of the Shrew, that person will have 
to know from hearsay that Herb is 
going to ho a real comedian. Of 
course Ilckle boy Baxter Albright 
will put on his best shoo wlion ho puts 
his best foot, forward to compete with 
Herb in tholr stunt. Bill Mngough 
lms condescended to put 011 a slclt 
called Hokum on the Wire, and 
from all that is known of BUI, it will 
be Hokum." Ohio says dont toll 
'em too much, for if you do they wont 
come. so we will leave tho rest, of 
the news to surprlso you when you 
get there Thursday morning, May 24.
ARE YOU STILL SUERSTITIOUS?
ANNUAL MARDI GRAS
ON FRIDAY, MAY 25
Prof. Steidle Named 
As Technical Adviser
Aid Fact Finding Commis
sion in Investigation of 
Cool Mining
ProfoHBOX* Stoldlo of tho Mining De
partment .has' heon appointed: Tech
nical Advisor to the Fact Finding 
Commission, which, under tho leader 
ship of John Hiays Hammond, Is inveatlgatlng tho condition of tho coal 
mining busincsa.
Prol'oasor Steiales duties conalst of 
the investigation, in coinpanyi with a 
well known efficiency expert, of cer
tain large mines in Kentucky, West 
Virginia and Illinois. The iuvestiga 
tion covers all phases of the opera
tion of mines. A report will be made 
to the Commission at Washington at 
the conclusion of the field work.
One other similar party is at work 
in the Pennsylvania bituminous field, 
and it is hoped that from such evi
dence as they may gather, light may 
be thrown upon the complicated min
ing situation of today. It is likewise 
to be hoped that valuable suggestions 
may be forthcoming, which may lead 
to the improvement of mining meth
ods and the consequent amelioration 
of present market conditions.
Professor Steidle started this inves
tigation in a large mine at Lynch, 
Ivy. From there he expects to cross 
the mountains into West Virginia by 
horseback. And then he is to go to 
Illinois and finally to Washington, D. 
C., to report. I-Ie expects to he gone 
about six weiiks.
WAR DEPT. TO GIVE 
CITIZEN TRAINING
Will Hold Camp Again at 
Maryland For Men of 
This District
The student body of the modern 
college seems to bo divided into the 
camp of students satisfied to take 
passing grades as a goal and the type 
that plays the game by fighting tooth 
and nail with the professor for the 
highest grade.
The former wends his happy way 
through life, only brought down to 
Mother Earth when an E or an F 
stares him in the face. In after life 
his type is as a rule successful and 
constitutes about 100 per cent of the 
faces seen at clasa reunions and on 
alumni homecomings.
Whether or not he lias done any
thing to put college education upon a 
higher or lower level, it must be ad
mitted that I10 is the most represen
tative type produced in the American 
System.
Tho student whose sole aim is to 
amhss as many As as possible rep
resents the other extreme of our sys
tem. 1-Ie very often selects the line 
of least resistance in the selection of 
courses in order to insure high grades, 
in those studies which he has select
ed. Although he undoubtedly repre
sents a more serious class of student 
than the first type, he often finds upon 
graduation that his battle for scliolastico honors has brought him neither 
a true education nor ability to cope 
with the problems of the world.
Wo aro led to believe that both of 
thoso typos aro missing the true aim 
of oducatlon by the ono chasing tho 
Will o tho Wisp of collegiate hon
or and the othor the lights of schol
astic honors.University Nows (Cin
cinnati).
The War Department Is holding 
Citizens Military Training Camps 
again this year and has designated 
Camp Meade, Maryland, as the site 
for the training of citizens of Penn
sylvania, Maryland, Virginia and the 
District of Columbia. The camp will 
be held'from June 26 to July 25, and 
will be open to young men of these 
states, between tho ages of 17 and 
24.
The object of tnese camps is to 
stimulate and promote citizenship, 
patriotism and Americanism and 
through expert physical direction, 
athletic coaching and military train* 
ing to benefit the young men physic
ally and to inculcate in them high 
idoals of citizenship and service.
To accomplish these ends, the pro
gram of instruction comprising mil
itary training, personal hygiene and 
kindred subjects has been carefully 
planned and as a special feature in
struction in radio is to be included. 
Through the generosity of the Radio 
Corporation of America, the best re
ceiving set at that time on the mar
ket is to be awarded for excellence in 
this department at the conclusion of 
the camp.
Recreation, too, is to be provided 
for. Bands, orchestras and other en
tertainments will be organized and 
there will be moving picture pro
grams and amateur and professional 
musical and dramatic entertainments.
All this is available to the young 
men free of charge, the Government 
-defraying all expenses, including 
transportation to and from the camp, 
uniform, .food, medical care and 
emergency dental treatment.
Detailed information and applica
tion blanks can be secured by writ
ing to the; Military Training Camp3 
Association, 310 Bellevue Court Build
ing, Philadelphia.
Summer camps are held all over 
the United States. Students not resi
dents of the states mentioned in tho 
first paragraph can securet informaiion about the camps that will be 
held in their own areas from the 
Philadelphia office given above.
SOCIAL WORK CLUB OF 
M.M.C.C. HOLDS MEETING
The Margaret Morrison Social Work 
Club hold tholr regular mopthly meet
ing last Wodnosday evoning. Dlnnor 
was aervod In tho M. M. lunch room 
after which tho business mooting was 
hold.
TI10 main feature of tills meeting 
was a talk by Mrs. Burnett, tlio head 
of tlio department, about tho valuo of, 
joining tho American Association of 
Social Workors. She explained that 
tho M. M. students of 'Social Work 
may enter tho Association as Junior 
members wliero tho schools who are 
not on the qualified list of schools for 
social work training must have one 
year experience before becoming 
Junior members. At the close of the 
meeting arrangements were made for 
a hike and a picnic which will take 
place later in the spring.
Physics is the science of the prop
erties of matter and energy; which 
brings us to a realization of the fact 
that a physicist has quite a large field 
to work in, for is not matter all-inclu
sive, and energy also? Nothing has 
been discovered which is not made 
up of matter, and this same matter 
always has energy stored up within it.
Living, from one point of view, is 
a manipulation of matter with the aid 
of energy. The easier this matter 
can be moved about and controlled, 
the nearer to the ideal is our life. The 
more is known about matter and its 
properties the better one can get 
along in the fight for existence. His
tory of civilization is only a story of 
man gaining control over matter and 
energy, through his continual and 
ever-increasing knowledge of these 
two all-important fundamentals.
Cave men lived simple lives be
cause they did not know how to live 
any better. Physics had not been de
veloped to that point where it served 
man. In those days, man was a slave 
to matter. Today matter is becoming 
more and more a slave to man. The 
all-important ability of utilizing en
ergy stored up in matter for the ad
vancement of living was in the dim 
past undeveloped.
In the industries of today, more and 
more time and money are being spent 
in the research department, develop
ing new ideas, and elaborating upon 
the old ones. The physicist and chem
ist are coming to take their rightful 
place alongside the engineer.
CARNEGIE TECH, with her up-todate laboratories in light, heat, elec
tricity, sound, and mechanics is serv
ing mankind by preparing young men 
to do this research work. In her lab
oratories, experiments are conducted 
daily to better acquaint the student 
with the ways and means of gaining 
this knowledge. Researches are con
tinually being conducted.
CARNEGI& TECH is proud to boast 
that her Physics Department can 
show 100 per cent in that every grad
uate and former student of the depart
ment is today following up (the line 
of work he studied).
Here are a few of the results:
C. A. STONE: Charleroi Labora
tory, Macbeth-Evans Glass Company, 
working in the development of color
ed glasses, photometry and radiation 
pyrometry.
L. E. DIETRICH: American Tele
phone and Telegraph Company, in
stalling automatic telephone ex
changes.
P. R. HOOVER: Research physi
cist, American Telephone and Tele
graph Company at one time. Later a 
graduate student in physics at Har
vard, and at that time assistant re
search assistant to Bridgman on Higb 
Pressure Investigations. Next year, 
Hoover will study as graduate student 
in Germany.
R. L. STEINBERGER: With Amer
ican Telephone and Telegraph Com
pany and at present time graduate 
student at Harvard.
C. M. BLACKBURN: Assistant
professor of mathematics at Univer
sity of Montana. Next year he will 
study at the University of Minnesota.
P. H. CRAGO: With Nachod Sig
nal Company, manufacturers of switch 
and signal apparatus.
L. E. EMERICH: Formerly with
New Jersey Public Service Commis
sion on illumination surveys, and at 
present with Seeds and Northrup 
Company, in charge of sales to colM. M. GIRLS INSPECT 
HEINZ COMPANY PLANT
ROAMINS
On May 24, the Plebes will bury 
Old Man P. R. After his funeral 
there will be a grand rush for loud 
ties and rainbow socks. The Plebe 
will talk to his best girl then without 
the embarrassment of a haircut a few 
days later and the hardships of a 
Plebe will exist no longer for this 
year.
The passing of old P. R. means 
the passing of the Plebe cap till next 
year. Roamer rather hates to see the 
distinctive Scotch cap disappear till 
next fall and perhaps there are oth
ers who would like to see the Plebe 
cap remain on tho campus throughout 
tho year.
Thursday afternoon between fifty 
and sixty girls of the M. M. City Prob
lems class made a visit to the home 
of pickles.
Upon arriving at the Heinz plant, 
the visitors were divided into three 
sections, and under the direction of 
three capable guides, were ushered 
through the plant.
First, the department in which the 
well known India Relish and Chili 
Sauce are mixed and boiled was visit
ed. From there the parties were 
guided upstairs and through broad 
white tile hallways to the spaghetti 
and macaroni departments. There, 
these products are mixed, kneaded 
and baked by machinery. In all the 
various departments the work is car
ried on under wholesome, sanitary 
conditions. The trip ended with a big 
feed provided by the Heinz company.
Midwest Club Will Hold 
Postponed Hike Saturday
FALKNOR: Radio engineer, Westinghouse.
CARL ZOBEL: U. S. Bureau of
Standards, studying airplane radia
tion problems.
MELAUPHY: U. IS. . Bureau of
Standards, studying spectropliometry.
RALPH BARROW and EDWARD 
FRAZER: Patent examiner, U. S.
Patent Office.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
How about it Plebes? Why not es
tablish tho tradition that the Plebe 
cap be worn by Plebes during the en
tire yoar. Truly you will be out of 
regulations but that will not prohibit 
tho woaring of the Scotch cap.
Everyone is proud of the present 
Plebe cap. It is good looking and 
certainly Is distinctive of tho school. 
Horos youre chance '26! Lets start 
something.
ROAMER.
Next Saturday, May 12, at 2 p. m., 
the Mid-West Club will gather for a 
hike.
The hikers will meet in the Admin
istration Building and only a few 
know what is in store for them.
Plenty of grub is being prepared 
and a real old fashioned steak supper 
will be the final windup.
All student members desiring to 
make the trip will please leave their 
names with Miss Rice of M. M. C. C., 
Miss Allen of Arts, Leo Hertzman of 
Industries or Andy Olson of McGill 
Hall.
PROGRAM FOR SENIOR
WEEK SANCTIONED
MANY NOVEL CUSTOMS
FEATURE POVERTY DAY
TWO PROMINENT SCIENTISTS 
LECTURED AT CARNEGIE TECH
(Continued From Page Ono) 
Booths 011 the Campus will sell re
freshments and superb decorations 
shall add atmosphere.
As chief promoters and oxecutors 
of the glorious occasion, and also the 
Coronation Dance, Earl Gross, serves 
as chairman, Buck James as treas
urer, and Ilaffer Sload, E. P. Couse, 
Jr., Edith Schultis, Louise Colebrrook, 
and Cy Hoenninger as assistants.
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
mass of othor waves.
Dr. Jeffries, whoso spoelnlty is met
allography, tho study of tlio physical 
properties of metals, spoke about 
Tho Hardening of Non-Forrous Motals oil Monday night, and discussed 
this subject with reference to tho ef
fect of tho present hardening meth
ods upon tho intornal structuro of 
the metals.
In Ills second locturo, Dr. Joffrles, 
explained tho cliangos undorgono by 
ferrous metals When hardened and 
gavo somo very specific information 
on this important field.
Those aro the fourth of a series of 
lecturos held at Carnegie Tech which 
are helping to bring the scientists of 
this district and the school closer to
gether.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
(Continued From Page One)
One of the most interesting cos
tumes was that worn by a Science 
Plebe representing a baby riding its 
mothers back.. Needless to say, its 
designer had no trouble in placing 
with the winners.
Several different types of monkeys 
wero among the winners. The one 
represented by a Maggy Murph Plebe 
proved to be a money making propo
sition as she collected about thirty 
cent3 while waiting to have her pic
ture taken.
Judging of the costumes was car
ried on in the separate assemblies 
starting promptly at 11:30. Six to 
eight Plebes were excused from regu
lations for the remainder of the year 
in each school. In Industries, Herb 
Knappenbergor, Ben KrlstofT, Joe 
Christoff, ,T. L. McLain, F. T. Rubenstein, C. J. Banlcior, and R. D. Gill 
wore oxcused. Art 'School excused 
Mary Sanndors, Eleanor Johnson, 
Eleanor Campbell, Grace Cypliors, 
Mary Shaw, Hardy Albright, Vornor 
I Purnell, Austin Coughlin, John Osier,
I and Ellsworth Poriin Tho lucky 
Maggy Murplis wero Alma Butclior, 
Louiso Bonson, Mary Quick, Mary 
II111, Mary Dale, and Madolino Dale. 
Science winners wore R. V. Reiner., 
W. E. Wilson, H. L. Meseingor, C. R. 
Wilson, J. V. Special!, E. L. Reeves, 
and J. F. Harris.
Don Mawhlnney, chairman of the 
Four Schools Regulations Committee 
acted as master of ceremonies With 
Jeffers, Marshall, Good, Rieglemeir, 
Andrews, Sarah Mary Everett, and 
Lillian Coleman as assistants. Memj bors of the Student Council in each 
j of the schools acted as a censoring 
committee.
(Continued From Page One.)
8:00 p. m.Play in the Little Thea
ter.
Friday, June 15.
10:00 a. m.Commencement.
12:30 p. m.  Commencement Re
ception.
9:00 p. m.Commencement ball.
As the program stands it is indeed 
attractive, and yet there are many 
features which are not yet ready for 
final announcement. For instance, 
Monday forenoon will see a baseball 
game between the girls and the men. 
Several features are planned so that 
the girls may meet the men on even 
terms. There will be no charge for 
grandstand seats and it is hoped and 
expected that a large crowd will at
tend.
The committee wishes to direct the 
attention of all (Seniors to the an
nouncement elsewhere in the Tartan 
of the tea dances to be held in the 
Union soon. The week will not be the 
success it should be unless the Sen
iors are mutually acquainted. This is 
the last and best opportunity offered 
to become thus acquainted and it is 
hoped that all the iSeniors will take 
advantage of it.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
What did Professor Smith mean 
tills morning wlion he told you 
that no man could over make a 
silk purse out of a sows ear?"
Pythias
"He meant that Id never be able 
to do eWWsn work with a poor pencil. 
Guess Ill have to get a Dixons 
Eldorado. Old Smlty says Its tho 
best drawing: pencil made."
10)Cam)p
"pie master diauwgpenal'
17 leadsall dealers
Campus Week Poster 
Judgement on Exhibition
Last week the Campus Week pos
ters made y the students in the 
Painting and Illustration Department 
in Arts School were judged. There 
are fifty-nine posters now on exhibit 
in the Exhibition Hall. This is a 
large number of posters to be handed 
in for one assignment and what is 
better still the marks were high. Sev
eral handed in two or more posters; 
one girl had three in and received two 
As and one B. These posters will be 
hung in conspicuous places just be
fore Campus Week.
Those to receive As were: First
place, John Carr; second, Peg Weiland; third, W. G. Dieter; fourth, Peg 
Weiland; fifth, Curtis Colvin; sixth, 
Coswith; seventh, Charles Whitmer; 
eighth, Mary Vaill.
MME. SPAGHETTI, SCIEN
TIFIC SOOTHSAYER SWINGS
SEANCE IN SCIENCE
(Continued From Page One)
A.No, the recorder for your, di
vision is engaged.
Q.-Who put the Plebe banner on 
the flagpole?
A.Frank Orbin.
Q.Does Willy really love me best?
A.As well as he knows how, any
way.
Q.Whos in a hellova hurry?
A.The author of this d------
column!
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Olde Schenley Shop
Showing the best line of
Mothers Day Cards
In the city.
415 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
FOUR-POWER 
TREATY
The Most Important Treaty 
ever negotiated .by the 
United States
Copies now being distributed cxdusivcly by the
Sixt?*onc Yean fn Busine. Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
For freo copies apply to any 
agent or to the home office of 
the Company, 197 Clarendon 
Street, Boston, Massachusetts
6WrTRAVEL MADE EASY
Courteous clerks who 
know every lane of travel 
the world over are at 
your disposal at our 
Steamship Deaprtment.
Select your destination 
and we will do everything 
In our power to help you 
reach it in comfort and 
safety.
Mellon National Bank
Otoer^lue.& Srruthfild
LINES FROM
FAMOUS LIBERALS
In the beauty of the lilies Christ 
was born across the sea
With a glory in His bosom that 
transfigures you and me;
As He died to make men holy, 
let us die to make men 
free.
Julia Ward Howe.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves.
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor.
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ...................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOMEI TECH STUDENTS
I Flowers for Every Occasion
 Gift Boxes X
 CorsagesX Plants *t*
 Decorations .*?X Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the X 
quality and service.
 W. Smith Company |
*:* LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET $ 
X Phone Smithfield 327.
 Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada. 

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 9, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
STATE DEFEATS 
PLAID DESPITE 
PERSISTENCE
Dual Track Meet Saturday 
at State College Results in 
Score of 92-42 With Tar
tans on Lower End
DISCUS RECORD MADE
In a dual frought with all sorts of 
hard luck, but marked by stubborn 
persistence on the part of tlie losers, 
the Plaid of Carnegie Tech was ripped 
to shreds by the sharp claws of the 
Penn State Lion. A valiant crew it 
was that set out for the mountains 
intent on licking the Nittany boys, 
and a sadder but no less valiant crew 
it was that returned to Pittsburgh, 
beaten by the score of 92 2-3 to 42 1-3.
Carnegie failed to register a first 
place in the track events, doing her 
best work in the weight class. In the 
latter, A1 Schillinger made two first 
places, putting. the shot and hurling 
the discus just a little farther than 
' anyone else. Sprinkle followed Schil
linger in the shot put and McMahon 
of State was the third man. In the 
discus throw Schillinger established a 
new school record by sending the 
round article- a distance of nearly 1'28 
feet. He was followed by McMahon 
and Shearer of State.
Jimmy Robertson also garnered a 
first place in the javelin throw, fol
lowed by another Carnegie man, Bas
tian. Robertson also took second 
place in the 120 low hurdles, which 
were won by Kaufman, iState; and 
/was second in the 100-yard dash.
Pittman won second place in the 
bread jump, and Luty, a Freshman, 
took third in the high jump. Other 
point winners for the Plaid were 
Szold, Dykeman, Gare.
 Brumbaugh was slightly injured in 
one of the events and was unable to 
come through with a win. Chuck 
Cooper ran a pretty race, but could 
not beat out the speedy Blue and 
White man in the 880-yard run.
Among the men who starred for 
State and who contributed greatly to 
her victory were Kaufman and Hile 
in ^lie hurdles, Moore and Helfrich in 
the dashes, Kreiter in the two-mile 
run, Palm, Gifford, and Wagner in the 
field events.
The splendid work of the Tartans 
caused favorable comment from the 
spectators, who appreciated that it 
was not to -a lack of grit and determi
nation that they were sent home with 
a defeat.
The summary is as follows:
120-yard hurdlesFirst, Kauffman, 
Penn State; second, Robertson, Tech; 
third, (PBile, Penn State. Time, 15 3-5 
seconds.
100-yard dashFirst, Moore, Penn 
State; second, Robertson, Tech; third, 
Palm, Penn State. Time, 10 2-5 sec
onds.
One-mile runFirst, Bnclc, Penn 
State; second, Carter, Penn State; 
third, Fitzpatrick, Penn State. Time, 
4 minutes 27 2-5 seconds.
400-yard dash-First, Helfrich, Penn 
State; second, Moore, Penn State; 
third, Szold, Tech. Time, 50 seconds 
(equals college record1.)
Two-mile runFirst, Kreiter, Penn 
State; second, Dykeman. Tech; third, 
Horton, Penn State. Time, 9 minutes 
57 seconds.
220-yard hurdlesFirst, Hile, Penn 
State; second, Kauffman, Penn State; 
third, Gare, Tech. Time, 25 2-5 sec
onds.
220-yard dashFirst, Wieand, Penn 
State; second, Szold, Tech; third, 
Stabler, Penn State. Time, 22 3-5 sec
onds.
S80-yard runFirst, Enck, Penn 
State; second, Edgerton, Penn State; 
third, Carter, Penn State. Time, 1 
minute 57 4-5 seconds.
Shot Put-First, Schillinger, Tech; 
second, Sprinkle, Tech; third, Mc
Mahon, Penn State. Distance, 38.2 
feet.
Hammer throw-First, Palm, Penn 
State; second, Sprinkle, Tech; third, 
Totok, Penn State. Distance, 137 feet 
4 inches.
DiscusFirst, Schillinger, State; 
second, McMahon, State; third, Ed
gar, State. Distance, 127 feet 2 inches.
JavelinFirst, Robertson, Tech; 
second, Bastian, Tech; third, Johnson, 
Penn State. Distance, 144 feet 6 
inches.
Broad jumpFirst, Gifford, Penn 
State; second, Pittman, Tech; third. 
Tice, Penn State. Distance, 21 feet 7 
inches.
High' jumpFirst, Wagner, Penn 
IState;. second, Saner, Penn State; 
third, tie, Houser State; Heckel, 
State; Luty, Tech. Height, 5 feet 8 
inches.
Pole vaultFirst*, Tice, Penn State; 
second, Durboraw, Penn State; third, 
Smith, Tech. Height, 11 feet 6 in
ches.-
StarterL. J. Bradford, Swarthmore.
- Students not equipped with a leath
er brief case, a good fountain pen, 
Eversharp Pencil, bill fold, and at 
least one piece of "Tech Jewelry 
should visit the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
Room and Board
Two rooms on third floor, 
large enough to accommodate 
several. Very desirable loca* 
tlon. Two baths and shower. 
Breakfast and evening dinner. 
Garage space. Reasonable rates. 
Call Hiland 9556. 5316 Liberty 
Avenue.
Frank Haaren Recuperating  
At His Horae in Sioux CityOn the Plaid Screen
Forbes Hall Wins Basket 
Ball Championships
Carnegie's graduate manager of ath
letics, Frank H. Haaren, who was ta
ken sick shortly after the end of the 
football season is now rapidly recu
perating. About a month ago Mr. 
Haaren was moved to his native town, 
Sioux City, Iowa, and from the latest 
reports he is now feeling much better 
and is able to be around.
It is unlikely that Mr. Haaren will 
again resume his duties before next 
fall, but he will probably pay a visit 
to the old nest before all the birds 
have flown for the summer. It is 
gratifying to know that Mr. Haaren 
is now convalescing, since there was 
at one time grave doubts as to his 
survival. Absolute rest and good fresh 
air have, however accomplished the 
cure, which is now only a question of 
days.
By H. H. WILSON
FOOTBALL PRACTICE 
WILL END THIS WEEK
Coaches Marks and Irwin 
Developing Two Ends 
and Center
Spring ^football practice is coming 
to an end this week. The men have 
been having their workouts regularly 
for several weeks and have put lots 
of pep into them despite the warm 
weather.
Many of the new men have shown 
up very well, but Coaches Irwin and 
Marks extended the practice one week 
longer to try to develop a center and 
two ends. These positions seem to 
be the hardest to fill as they are the 
most necessary. The center position 
is the hardest for which to find a 
man, as it requires a man who: has 
great intelligence and is always on 
the alert on defensive play.
The new men that are showing up 
well are Morrison, Weston, Beede and 
Predmore of last years Plebe team. 
The coaches have a bright outlook for 
these men and hope to find them out 
for positions this coming fall.
Practice will begin again about 
September 1, when the men will be 
given their final training before the 
season opens.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
M. M. ATHLETIC ASSC. 
ELECTS NEW OFFICERS
The new officers of the M. M. Ath
letic Association were elected last 
week and were as follows:
President, Mary Heilig; vice presi
dent, Dorothy  Chalmers; secretarytreasurer, Mary Stuempfle.
The members of the board will be 
elected at a meeting which will take 
place in the near future.
The Athletic Association has been 
very active all winter planning and 
carrying on sports of various kinds, 
and has many new plans for spring.
Baseball practice began last Thurs
day with a good showing and as soon 
as sufficient practice has taken place 
the inter-class games will bo started.
The inter-class track meet will be 
held during Campus Week. An an
nouncement of the practices will be 
given out later. The tennis doubles 
have started in full swing. This tour
nament into which forty six people 
entered, is a preliminary for the tour
nament of singles.
Bowling will start May 9 with about 
80 girls participating.. Four groups 
will play each Wednesday for three 
weeks following which there will be 
the inter-class, contest. The girls are 
very enthusiastic about this new 
sport and if the interest continues it 
may be necessary to arrange for bowl
ing on two days a week instead of 
one.
A short time ago golf started on its 
way with -about twenty-five girls par
ticipating. Plans for a golf tourna
ment are under way and will be com
pleted about the iast week in May.
Swimming has been a very popular 
sport all winter and some of the girls 
have beepme expert swimmers. Tests 
will be given to those who desire to 
take them on any swimming day up 
to May 21 when the inter-class swim
ming meet will take place.
Concerning hiking, a long hike has 
been planned which will include an 
outdoor dinner. The date for this 
event will be announced in the near 
future.
THE INTERSCHOLASTIC MEET
Last Saturday was, without a doubt, the largest and best conducted meet 
of its kind ever held on the campus. The weather was perfect and with 
the well formulated plans of the management working out to schedule, the 
high school and prep school athletes with their vari-colored uniforms made 
a fine picture against the green of the football field. Too much credit 
cannot be given the management for the meet, from the point of view of a 
spectator in the stands, went off with clock-like precision and the high and 
prep lads were likewise pleased with the treatment they received. Hollings
worth and his assistants evidently put in some hard work to make the meet 
such a success.
Considering the results of the meet, Mercersburg Academy won with 
apparent ease and demonstrated fine sportsmanship when they withdrew 
from the relays giving the opportunity to some other team. With Bellefonte Academy second and Kislci third, the prep schools made a clean sweep 
of things leaving the high schools to glean the other, few points. It surely 
must have been discouraging to the high school athletes to see one prep 
school walk off with eight first places. Next year the high schools will 
likely not be so anxious to return unless some division is made so that 
they will not have to compete against these older and more experienced 
athletes from the prep schools.
SNOWED UNDER
Sounds rather funny in May, but thats what happened to the Carnegie 
Tech track team on Saturday at Penn State. With a. margin of 49 points, 
the State runners easily proved their supremacy. However in the field 
events the Tartans managed to account for the larger share of the points 
and kept the score from being any worse than it was.
It is futile to expect Coach Beeler to produce a real team when a man 
becomes ineligible just about the time he is beginning to get good.
We heard that our relay team of inligibles made better time, 3:29, 
up at Schenley Oval last Saturday than the varsity relay team turned in, 
in winnging the championship at the Penn relays.
Someone said they saw a couple of erigineers with blueprints out on the 
new gym site the other day. Buddy Overend made the break at the smoker 
on Saturday night that the bids for the new gym would be let in the NEAR 
FUTURE. It looks as though Napoleon might finally get over the Alps.
Manager Kreisle of the tennis team is. trying to book a match with Pitt 
for our Campus Week celebration. It would surely prove a big drawing 
card and would serve to make Campus Week still more of an attraction to the alumni.
Our Tennis Club is doing some good in our campus tennis world, but 
not so good in some ways. We understand they are co-operating in a num
ber of ways with the varsity, but on the other hand they are more or less 
neglecting the students. The nets that the student members are forced 
to use are in pretty poor shape, in fact a ball might go just as asily 
through them as over them. Another thing is the method of issuing the 
cards or permits. If a student gets one now he receives credit only for 
the remainder of the school year, which amounts to about five or six weeks 
To be fair to the students, they should get credit for the spring and fall season.
The club has donated a cup for the girls' tennis tournament. The finals 
of which will be played during Campus Week.
Girls Start Their March 
For Tennis Championship
With the outward indicatons of 
spring weather very evident, the 
Maggie Murphs are following in the 
footsteps of Ihelr gentlemen friends 
and stepping out briskly along the 
pathways of ihe- various and sundry 
spring sports. For instance, if one 
were to take a casual glance towards 
the tennis courts, he would see many 
attractive girls cavorting aboutwe 
won't insinuate that they are playing 
tennis, for, since the truth may not 
hurt, they were only tryingthe 
courts and merrily fanning the air, 
or malting her kind opponent chase 
stray balls. Ypa, the Maggie Murphs 
are.ini the midst of their annual Bpring 
tennis tournament aimed to pick the 
champions of Carnegie Tech, both in 
singles and doubles. The first round 
of this tournament must be played off 
by May 7, and the rest before 
Campus Week, as it has been decreed 
by the Campus Week powers that be 
that the! finals shall be played off as 
one of the attractions of the celebra
tion.
For the iCarnegio Tartan to pick a 
winner at such an early period would 
indeed by quite an achievement. But, 
just the same, and for the mere fun 
of making mistakes, will take a 
chance. For instance, the all-seeing 
eye of ye writer can plainly see that 
Cubbie Lyons Lenore Davies, Neomi 
Parkinson and Chummy Macrum, are 
in a class by themselves, and it 
would not be at all srprising to sec 
either one of these cop the cup. As 
for the doubles, it looks like the 
Lyons-Davies combination are pretty 
good. Not being personally acquaint
ed with the ability of Miss Parkin
sons partner, yo writer hesitates to 
elaborate himself upon the ability of 
this combination.
But, the motto of the Carnegie 
Tartan is to bet on the winning team. 
Therefore, all bets with  us must 
wait until after Campus Week.
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Hesitant Shopper  Arent those 
hose a little flashy?
Keen SalesmanYes, Miss, indeed 
they are. And the weather forecas
ter says High winds and becoming 
variables."
ShopperIll take them.
-The Sabre.
Bucknell-PIaid Tennis 
Match 3 p. m. Today
Team to Leave Tomorrow 
on Trip Through West
Girls Doubles Tennis Tournament
First Round2nd 3rd 
Round Round
Semi*
Finals
Winners
M. HeiligH. Corrao 
L. OsbornM. Weber
S. BergerH. Cooper 
E. Pratt-V. Atkinson 
L. ElyW. Rice 
A. AllisonE. McCloud 
D. DonovanD. Deuel 
S. M. EverettBerns 
L. RichM. Parker 
M. E. McClellandP. Perkins
P. EvansE. Murdoch
G. HoffmanN. Parkinson
D. GrantH. Mactum
R. McDavidC. Waterman 
V. HadleyI. Rosenbloom 
H .GillespieM. Moren 
A. NixonN. Welsh 
M. CookD. Cook 
V. SmithM. Fife 
M. MarkeyM. Bulmer
E. ConstantineN. Montgomery
H. StreinerL. Wiggen 
G. LyonsL. Davies
This afternoon at 3:00 oclock, the 
Bucknell tennis men will face the 
Scotch lads at the home courts on 
Woodlawn avenue. Having played 
only one match to date little is 
known about the strength of the Lewisburgers. This team Is well coached 
and has as much advantage In mate
rial as, the Slclbo netmen, so a close 
match may be expected.
Tomyrrow, a. five-man squad togeth
er with Manager KrolBle, will break 
away from the campus for a threematch trip, May loj ,11 and 12, respoc* 
tively, against the teams from Uni
versity of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Mich.; Oberlln College, Oberlln, Ohio, 
and Western Reserve, Cleveland, 
Ohio.
Michigan has never bowed to the 
Plaid in a tennis match during the 
history of tennis, but the day is com
ing when Carnegie will feel, no ombarrassment in tackling a team of the 
highest prestigewhether it be this 
year or in the near future, the results 
will tell. Scores for the four past 
matches are as follows:
1915, Michigan ....GCarnegie ____0
1921, Michigan ------4Carnegie-------2
1922, Michigan .... 5Carnegie .... 1
The Michigan team will journey to
Pittsburgh next week and the Tartan 
management will be host to them on 
Tuesday, the day of the big match.
Western Reserve has an imposing 
net squad and this match will prob
ably be as close as any other on the 
trip.
As the summary of the match 
against Oberlln last week indicate?, 
the singles were entirely within the 
hands of the Plakl netmen, while the 
doubles proved that a team which 
can hold a pair of players like 
Schwartz and Hausauer to deuce 
games, reaching thirteen, has in its 
men and its coach, Bill Parkhill, the 
making of a first-class tennis team. A 
more exciting match is expected from 
Parkhills boys.
The remaining games are:
May 9Bucknell, here.
Ma.y 10Michigan, there.
May 11Oberlin, there.
May 12Western Reserve, there.
May 14Michigan, here.
May 24Alumni, here.
May 26Allegheny, here.
May 30Penn State, there.
May 31Yale, there.
June 1Pending.
June 2Lehigh, there.
The basket ball team of Forbes 
Hall, succeeded in holding Mellon Hall 
team to a tie score of 10-16 in their 
last game which was played last 
Wednesday. They had previously suc
ceeded in defeating the .Uppor and 
Lower Woodlawn teams by high 
scores. A large box of Reymers was 
presented by Miss Bowman to the 
champions. The following was t;lio 
lineup:
Ruth Gleichert ...........................Forward
Helen Macrum (captain) ....Forward
Dorothea MacMinn........................Guard
Constance Berno ...........................Guard
Mary Stuemplle .............................Center
Barbara White ....................Side Center
SubstitutesEmmy Lou Carolton 
and Dorothy Levlson.
draco Patterson, manager.
MANY HIGH SCHOOLS 
COMPETE IN MEET
Mercersburg Academy Wins 
Inter-Scholastic Event; 
Bellefonte Second
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Shop girl (just kissed)Will that 
bo all?
Phoenix.
CAMPUS WEEK 
IS
COMING!
MAY 
24. 25, 26
Mercersburg Academy placing In 10 
out of 14 events and taking eight first 
places easily outclassed all opponents 
and won the Carnegie Tech Inter
scholastic Track and Field Meet which 
was held on Tech Field last Saturday. 
Mercersburg scored 57 points. Her 
nearest rivals were Bellefonte and 
Kiski who had 35 and 22 points re
spectively.
This meet was one of the largest 
ever held in Western Pennsylvania 
and was by far the greatest meet Car
negie Tech has ever fostered. The 
whole thing was run off like clock
work. Every detail of this big event 
was very well takon care of and a 
great deal of credit is duo Manager 
Hollingsworth for the great success of 
the meet.
The points were distributed as fol
lows: First place five points, second
place, four points; third place, three; 
fourth place, two, and fifth place, one.
Finals.
100-yard dashWon by Clayton, 
Mercorsburg; Bartholomew, Altoona, 
second; ONeill, Bollofonto, third; 
Archer, Schenley, fourth; Bash, Bellefonte, fifth. Time, 10 4-5 soconds.
120-yard high hurdlosWon by Moran, Mercorsburg; Campbell, Kiski, 
second; Similar, Johnstown, third; 
Lorch, Mercersburg, fourth; Harring
ton, Unlontown, fifth. Time, 10 4-5 
soconds,
120-yard low hurdlosWon by Mo
ran, Morcersburg; Lorch, Morcorsburg, second; Todd, Monaca, third; 
Day, Now Castle, fourth; Matt, Walto, 
fifth. Time, 14 4-5 soconds.
220-yard dashWon by Colson, Morcersburg; ONeill, Bollofonto, second; 
Loekard, Uniontown, third; McCoy, 
Wllklnsburg, fourth; Bruco, Wells, 
fifth. Time, 23 4-5 seconds.
440-yard dash - Won by Ruttor, 
Munhall: Van Ilorno, Bollofonto, aWyt 
oml;. Graybill, Morcorsburg, third; 
Illaba, Norwln, fourth; Paschodag, 
Allegheny, fifth. Time, 55 1-5 soconds.
Hal E-mile runWon by Hayden, 
Mercorsburg; Mangos, Andorson, sec
ond; SteOl, Latrobo, third; QUlnn, 
Bollofonto, fourth; Yongor, Altoona, 
fifth. Timo2:07 3-5.
Milo run1Won by Cox, Mercersburg; Somanslce, Altoona, second; 
Manges, Lisbon, third; W. Howells, 
Allegheny, fourth; Meadows, Solith 
High (Akron), fifth. Timo, 4:40 2-5.
Mile Relay Raccs.
First, SectionWon by Latrobo 
(ORourke, Kelly, Dotterway, Dally); 
Altoona, second; New Brighton, third; 
Wllklnsburg, fourth. Time, 3:49 4-5.
Second sectionWon by Bellefonte 
(Nappenberger, Quinn, Bash, Van 
Horn); New Castle, second; Shadyside, third; Westingliouse, fourth. 
Time, 3:56 4-5.
Third sectionWon by Uniontown 
(Buttormore, Herrington, Kochardt, 
Mulligan); Redstone, second; Home
stead, third; Swissvale, fourth. Time, 
3:54 1-5.
Final standing relay, by timesLatrobe, Bellefonte, Uniontown, Altoona, 
New Castle, New Brighton, Redstone, 
Homestead, Swissvale.
Field Events.
Broad jumpWon by Stanford, Ak
ron South; Colson, Mercersburg, sec
ond; Hall, Kiski, third; Bassett, 
Waite, Toledo, fourth; Munro, Wilkinsburg, fifth. Distance19 feet,
10 J/ inches.
Shot putWon by Linn, Bellefonte; 
Hall, Kiski, second; Archibald, Westinghouse, third; McSwigan, Wellsville, fourth; Cullen, Freedom, fifth. 
Distance, 45 feet 5 inches.
High jumpWon by Langsphear, 
Norwin, Irwin; Thomas, Rayen, 
Youngstown, second; Campbell, Kiski, 
third; Hall, Kiski, fourth; Werle, 
South Hills, fifth. Height, 5 feet 9 
Inches.
Pole vaultWon by Johnson, Akron 
South; Day, New Castle, second; Mo
ran, Mercersburg, /third; Dleffenbaugh, German Township, fourth; 
Frable, Latrobo, fifth, Height, 10 foot 
6 Inches.
DiscusWon by Lev/is, Mercers* 
burg; Linn, Bellefonto, second; Puhr, 
Freedom, third; Jonnowine, Bellefonto, fourth; Timmons, Monaca, 
fifth. Distance, 110 feet.
Javelin throwWon by McLoughHn, Johnstown; Dean, New Castlo, 
second; Arras, Bellefonte, third; Altaffer, Kiski, fourth; Wicker, Altoona, 
fifth. Distance, 154 feet
Hammer throwWon by Lewis, 
Mercersburg: Hall, Kiski, second;
Hazlett, McKeesport, third; Bash, 
Bellefonte, fourth; Grassell, Mercersburg, fifth. Distance, 132 feet 3% 
inches.
THREE VICTORIES AND TWO TIES 
RECORD OF PLAID TENNIS TEAM
West Virginia, Allegheny and 
Oberlin Defeated in Fast 
Matches By Carnegie Men 
in Last Weeks Games
TIE WITH WASH-JEFF
Carnegie 6, West Virginia 0.
So far this season the promising 
Tartan tonnis team lias tucked away 
throe victories and has allowed its 
opponents two tie matches, both 
played on foreign courts.
Determined to upset a split-even 
match received from the hands of tho 
West Virginia netmen a few days 
previous to last Wednesday, Coach 
Garlands racquet team opened fire 
in the first of a series of four consec
utive court battles by trouncing the 
mountaineers to the scoro of 6-0. The 
results of this match were not antic
ipated to be a whitewash after hav
ing encountered the fierce stylo of 
playing by Steele and Captain Riley 
of tho West Virginia invaders.
When Capt. Connie Sclnvartz turn
ed the tables on Steele quite decisive
ly, an added amount of optomisiu was 
immediately transmitted to each of 
the other three Carnegie wiolders 
and the results were as follows: 
Singles.
Schwartz, Tech, defeated Steele, 
West Virginia, 0-3, 7-5.
OConnor, Tech, defeated Riley, 
Wost Virginia, 0-4, G-3.
Hausauer, Tech, doroatod Jones, 
Wost Virginia, 5-7, 0-2, 8-0.
Marshall, Tech, defoatod Turner, 
West Virginia, 0-4, 0-1.
Doubles.
Schwartz and Hausauor, Tech, de
feated Steele and Jonos, West Vir
ginia, 4-0, 9-7, 0-2.
OConnor and Hauser, Toeli, defeat
ed Riley and Turnor, Wost Virginia, 
0-3, G-0.
Carnegie 3, W. & J. 3.
Coach Diclcoy of W. & J. was ovon 
more confident, for ho felt sure that 
his team lmd tho odgo on tho Plaid, 
after their fray with tho Mountain
eers throe days In advance of tho 
Slclbo match at Washington last 
Thursday.
Breaking evon on tho singles and 
then on tho doubles, tho Prosldonts 
found consldorablo more opposition 
than they had oxopoctod. Captain 
Schwartz and OConnor woro the 
bright lights for the Tartans, while 
Captain Knoepp of W. & J. gave a 
splendid exhibition of tonnis in tho 
throo-sot slnglo match with Hausuuor 
of Carnegie.
Summary of W. & J. match: 
Singled.
Schwartz, Tech, defoatod Fulton, 
W. & J., 0-2, 0-3; OConnor, Tooli, de
feated Nasor, W. & .1., 0*8, 0-1; 
Knoepp, W. & J., defeated Hauuauer, 
Tech, 8*0, 0r8, 0-4; Fredericks, W. & 
J., defoatod Marshall, Tech, 0-4, 0-1. 
Doubles.
Schwartz and Hausauor, Tocli, de
foatod Fredericks and Fulton, W. & 
J., 0*1, 0*2; Knoepp and Nasor, W.
J., dofoatodl OConnor and Hausor, 
Tech, 0-4, 0-4.
Cnrnoglo 6, Oberlln 0.
Coach Bill Parkhill brought; a'1 
plucky quartet of boys from Ohio to 
tackle teams which woro somewhat 
out of tholr class and the results 
prove that the Buckoyo boys had suf
ficient fight and all tho advantages of 
good coachingthe only handicap 
.preventing a closor game being tho 
lack of early matches before striking
Alumni Meet Varsity 
Netmen Campus Week
Racqueteers Play Home Game 
With Allegheny College
There will be many tennis matches 
before Campus Week but the one 
which will draw the crowd of Alumni 
will bo tho match between the oldtimers and the 1923 varsity.
The alumni team lineup is not. def
initely known at this tilne but the alltime alumni manager, Eddie Hirsch 
has already sorved notice upon Toots 
Davis, Jack Beatty, Phil Marshall, 
Steve Stockslager, Wolf, Copley, Bob 
Sclunertz, I-Iarkness and several oth
ers to be prepared to meet their i'ato 
on May 24, the opening athletic event 
of Campus Week.
Tho Carnegie Tartan wishes tho 
alumni team all the encouragement it 
can offer toward defeating the var
sity team on this day.
Allegheny College netmen promiso 
tho Plaid wiolders the stifTest opposi
tion of any team in the tri-state swim 
for championship. ICharles Cochrane, 
a Wilkinsburg boy and a member of 
tho Allegheny team for his fourth con
secutive year, had his men in readi
ness to spring at the Carnegio nettors 
in tho first round of tho two-match 
volley toward tri-state championship. 
Tho return match will bo playod on 
tho home courts and will be tho contor of attraction for tho last after
noon of Campus Week.
at one. of tho host, not teams in this 
section of tho country.
Summary:
Singles.
Schwartz. Tech, doroatod Watson, 
Oborlln, 0-3, 0-2; OConnor, Tech, do
roatod Landis, Oborlln, 0-1, 0-1;
Hausauor. Tech* defoatod Haakoll, 
Oborlln, 0-2, 0-1; Kell, Tocli, defeated 
Haskell, Oborlln, 0*1, 0-2.
Doubloa.
Schwartz and Hausauor, Tech, dofoatod Landis and Haskell, Oborlln, 
13-11, 1.0-8; Kell and O'Connor, Tool, 
dofoalod Watson and Mooro, Ober
lln, 8-0, 0-1.
OfficialsHalloclfJ C.'Shorrard, Pitts
burgh; Flnlc, Springfield; Moses, 
Springfield!
Carnegio G, Allegheny 1.
In Illness of Captain Schwartz, 
Coach Garland had Roger Marshall 
take the trip to Moadvllle In company 
with four othor Slclbo raequot defend
ers last Saturday afternoon. Marshall 
won his singles In nlco style as well 
as did Kell, OConnor and Hausauor. 
Ifausauor, who has boon out for the 
varsity oonnlfltently for throe years, 
promises to give number four man oi! 
I,ho Slclbo squad a. run for his place, 
after his fair demonstration hi defeat
ing McQulston, the Allegheny star, In 
a trio-net.
Tho results:
Singled.
Hausauor, Tocli, dofoatotl  McQuls
ton, 0*1, 5-7, 04J Kell, Tech, defeated 
Coalo, 0-3, 0*1; OConnor, Tocli, de
foatod Clarke, 0-8, 0-8; Marshall, 
Tocli, defeated Coehrano, 0-2, 0*2.
Doubles.
Cochrane and MeQulston, Alle
gheny, defeated Marshall and Kell, 
0-4, 7-5; O'Connor and. Hausauor* 
defoatod Pratt and Clarlco, 0-1, 0-3.
Final scoreTech 5, Allegheny 1,
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
Davies & Hughes
Oaklan's Men's Store
HATS CAPS MENS FUBNISHING-S |
3615 Forbes Street Next to Strand Theater
Open every night
Would You LSke to SVlake $500
During Summer Vacation?
An unusual opportunity 
is offered to college men 
and women to earn 
enough money during 
the coming summer 
vacationtopaynextyear s 
tuition and expenses.
Write Today for Particulars
It will surprise you to leam how 
easily a substantial sum of money 
can be earned by selling the Premier 
Knife and Scissors Sharpener right 
inyourownhometownor city. Every 
housewife wants one the minute she 
sees itbecause it is such an im
provement over the old-fashioned whetstone. Just' a stroke or 
two of the Premier Sharpener on any knife or scissors blade 
produces a keen-cutting edge instantly. Written guarantee 
makes it easy to sell. Write at onec for complete Information or end 
50c for ample, stating what territory you winh u to rtacrva for you. 
Premier Mfg. Co., 806U East Grand Boulevard, Detroit, Mich.
Do You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics,
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by corrcnpondcncc. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
be Imtwrstiu of (Eljiragn
HOHB STUDY DEPT. CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
Y

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARVAWWEDNESDAY, MAY 9. 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
ALUMNI PLACEMENT BUREAU 
ANNOUNCES NEW POSITIONS
New Jobs Which Have Come 
to Office Since Last List 
Was Published Are Listed 
Below
INQUIRE AT OFFICE
Below is a list oE positions tliat are 
open at the time of going to press and 
that have come in since the publica
tion of the list in a previous issue of 
the Carnegie Tartan. Write into the 
Employment Office immediately if you 
are interested in any of these open
ings.
1. Salesman for mechanical engi
neering appliances, valves, regulators, 
etc., Pittsburgh district.
2. Efficiency engineer on combus
tion and fuel problems. Two or three 
years experience. Oklahoma.
3 Draftsman and designer on O. H. 
furnace and pipe layouts. Must know 
O. H. nomenclature. One or two 
years experience. Pittsburgh.
4. Mechanical for automotive divi
sion for mechanical drawing and other 
work on airbrakes for automobiles. 
Pittsburgh.
5. Automotive engineer. Harris
burg.
6. Mechanical draftsman for roll
ing mill work. One or two years ex
perience. Pittsburgh district.
7. Two mechanicals for drafting 
and estimating. Pittsburgh.
8. Detailer and tracer. Three or 
four years in the drafting room. 
Pittsburgh.
9. Mechanical draftsman on 
valves, regulators, piping, etc. About 
one years tracing experience. Pitts
burgh.
10. Mechanical draftsman and de
signer. Must be experienced. Swissvale.
11. Draftsman on store -fixtures, 
store layouts, etc. Pittsburgh.
12. Four structural detailers. From 
one to five years experience. Pitts
burgh.
13. Mill chasers. Pittsburgh.
14. Man for floor plan layouts. Po
sition to develop into industrial engi
neering. Recent graduate. Pittsburgh.
15. Civil or Building Construction 
man for field work on building con
struction job. Pittsburgh.
10. Civil for iState Highway. Craw
ford County.
17. One cliainman and two transitmen. Tarentum.
18. Junior construction engineer 
for work on service stations. Must 
know concrete construction. Pitts
burgh.
19. Civil engineer for transit and 
structural drafting. One years expe
rience. Pittsburgh.
20. Civil engineers for mainte
nance and construction. Two years 
experience. Pittsburgh.
21. Two civils, chainmen and rodmen. Must be able to handle chain. 
Pittsburgh.
22. Civil estimator and designer on 
coal tipple and conveying machinery. 
Pittsburgh.
23. Map draftsman. Pittsburgh.
24. Two civils on railroad con
struction and location drafting. Pitts
burgh.
25. Three rodmen and chainmen 
for out-of-town.
20. Several civil graduates for es
timating and designing on coal tipple 
and conveying machinery. Pittsburgh.
27. Electrical engineer. Wilmerding.
28. Two or three metallurgist or 
mechanicals. Pittsburgh.
29. Architectural draftsman. Pitts
burgh.
30. Window dresser. Pittsburgh.
31. Teacher of chemistry and gen
eral science. Cumberland, Md.
Alumnae Women's Banquet 
To Be Held Friday, May 25
Alumnae! *Of course you are mak
ing plans to attend the Womens ban
quet on Friday of Campus Week. Do 
you know the details? Its to be held 
in the Carnegie Commons, which 
some of you may remember better as 
the Beanery, but it will be 
dressed-up Beanery, and there will be 
room for everybody, Grads and Under
grads. Theres going to be lots of 
entertainment, and food, and fun n 
everything. Send in your check for 
1.50, the price of a ticket, to the 
Alumni Office where tickets may be 
obtained from now until Campus 
Week.
DR. C.P. STEINMETZ 
SPEAKS ON POWER
Claims That Energy of Sun 
Will Some Day Furnish 
Total Source of Power
ACACIA FRATERNITY TO
INSTALL CHAPTER SAT.
On Saturday afternoon, May 12, the 
Carnegie chapter of Acacia fraternity 
will absorb the Square and Compass 
-fraternity. The installation will take 
place at the William Penn Hotel and 
will be in charge of Grand President 
William S. Dye of State College Pa. 
The installation service will be con
ducted by a team from the Ohio. 
State chapter.
Acacia fraternity membership is 
limited to Master Masons. At present 
it has twenty-eight chapters scattered 
throughout the United States.
"Some time in the future, says 
Dr. C. P. Stinmetz of the General 
Electric Company, when the coal 
supply will be exhausted and all the 
water power developed, when the 
babbling brook and the roaring cata
ract will be gone, and sluggish pools 
extend1 from powerhouse to power
house, to feed the power demand of 
an ever increasing populationwill 
our civilization come to standstill 
for lack of further energy supply, 
and then begin to decay, be,cause 
there is no standstill in nature? Or 
what other energy supply can be 
opened up?
Oil and naturai gas will long 
have vanished, indeed they will be 
the first to go. Wind and; tides and 
wave power may be used as far as 
possible, but their total is so insig
nificant that it does not come into 
consideration.
There is only one other source of 
energy left, and that is the energy 
of the sunlight; but this is the 
greatest of all the energiesthough 
we have no economical means yet to, 
utilize it. The amount of energy of 
the sunlight falling on the uninhab
ited and uninhabitable regions of our 
country, the deserts, is over two 
hundred thousand millions of horse 
power, thousands of times larger than 
all the water power and all the 
power we now get from coal. So this 
is the( problem for the engineers of 
the futureto harness the energy of 
sunlight; this accomplished, there 
will never ibe any more lack of 
energy.
In reality, the energy which we 
use today is the energy of the sun
light; the heat of the suns rays 
evaporate the water, the water vapor 
rises to the clouds, condenses and 
conies down as rain feeding the riv
ers which give us the water power, 
and thus the energy which raised the 
water and which we get from the 
water power plant, is tne energy of 
present day sunlight. When we burn 
coal, it is again the energy of sun
light which we use, but from the rays 
of the sun shining millions of years 
ago on the primeval forests of the 
carboniferous period, when the earth 
was still younger. Then the plants 
stored th energy of the suns rays 
in their small wooden structure, and 
the wood* turned1 to coal through tho 
ages, and we are using up in a few 
centuries the energy of the sunlight 
which nature has stored through mil
lions of years in the coal mines.
A recent tabulation of the energy 
resources of the United Stares has 
been made by Dr. Charles P. Steinmetz of tho General Electric Com
pany. It is as follows:
Total power used50 million horse
power.
Steam powor used (exclus. R. R.) 
40 million horsepower.
Water power used10 millicn 
horsepower.
Developed water power10 million 
horsepower.
Undeveloped water power50 milD1SABLED WAR VETS TO
HOLD ANOTHER DANCE IN ....
UNION, SATURDAY MAY 12
The Disabled Vets Dance, which is 
to be held in the Union Saturday 
evening, May 12. The committee in 
charge promises a real dance with all 
the trimmings. Music is to be fur
nished by the Collegiate Impseight 
pieces strong.
The purpose of this dance is to raise 
funds to send a delegate to the Na
tional Convention of the Disabled 
American Veterans which is to be 
held in Minneapolis, Minn., during the 
week of June 20tli. Carnegie Tech 
chapter should be represented at this 
convention. This is just another way 
to advertising Carnegie Tech.
Assessment $1.25 per couple. Every
body welcome.
ALUMNI! THE DAYS 
ARE FLYING FAST
Only Two Weeks Remain For 
You to Finish Plans For 
Campus Week
I-Ieres something that will hit you 
with a bang. Only 15 more days till 
Campus Week! A real thunderbolt, 
isnt it? We who are right here on 
the ground can liarly realize it. ex
cept for tho work we have been 
steadily putting on It.
It is going to be not only the big
gest and best so far, but it will be a 
surprise to us if there is a better
PLAYGROUND FOR TIRED 
DRAMATS WILL APPEAR
IN LOT BEHIND SCHOOL
A playground is now to enhance 
the campus and temporarily assaugo 
the students desires until tho gym
nasium comes into existence.
The plot of laud behind tho College 
of Fine Arts, formerly serving as a 
dump for abandoned bricks, scarred 
lumber and antiquated farm machin
ery, lias been cleared and will be 
paved with nice soft oimlers for tho 
eds and co-eds to gambol on.
Benches will be provided along tho 
edge whore cinders should bo removed 
from the shoes, and replaced to pre
serve the integrity of tho surface. Al
though more tennis courts are in great 
demand there is no question that such 
a playground wil supply a long-felt 
want.
ALUMNI
It is traditional that Campus Week is your 
week. Come hack and enjoy it.
MAY 24-25-26
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
Pitt Week to Begin on
Pitt Campus Tomorrow
Tomorrow evening will see the ini
tiation of Pitt Week, held on the 
campus of the University of Pitts
burgh, and conducted along tho same 
lines as our Campus Week.
Classes will continue throughout 
Thursday, but in the evening dances 
will be held at all fraternity houses. 
In the afternoon of Friday, May Day 
exercises will be held on the campus, 
when the co-eds will go through the 
customary dances of May Day, includ
ing those of an esthetic nature. They 
will also at that time select and crown 
some beautiful and popular Senior 
girl as the Queen of Pitt. In the even, 
ing a large dance will be held in the 
Motor Square Garden. This is the 
big event of this celebration, the Key 
stone .S'erenaders will furnish part of 
the music, while an additional orch
estra will also play.
Saturday morning will see some ex
citing events, for at that time the 
girls scooter race will take place, con
ducted along lines similar to those 
governing the Carnegie girls race, the 
rules of which were published In the 
Carnegie Tartan last week. Inime< 
diately afterwards an inter-fraternity 
race for sweepstakes will be staged; 
the prize is the large cup and no 
doubt the race will be hotly contested. 
In the afternoon a fete will be held 
at the Oak Manor.
A farcical football game is to be 
played on this occasion. Between 
halves an emancipation exercise similar to our burial of old man P. R. is 
scheduled. A large crowd is expected 
to attend this game, which will no 
doubt be as exciting as many played 
at Forbes Field.
The closing event will be a Lawn 
Fete held at the Oak Manor Faculty 
Club when stunts will be put on by 
the Pitt players under the auspices of 
the inter-fraternity council and the 
Evening School Association.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE*
lion horsepower.
Total water power00 million
horsepower.
Potential water powers300 million 
horsepower.
Coal used):
Industries and public utilities230 
millions tons.
Railroads100 million tons.
Heating110 million tons.
Miscellaneous110 millions tons.
The 10 million horsepower of 
waterpower save about 100 million 
tons of coal.
The 50 million horsepower, if de
veloped, would save about an addi
tional of 500 million tons of coal, 
that is, all that the industries and 
railroads now use, with some to 
spare.
REFERENCE BOOKS GIVEN
TO CARNEGIE HUT LIBRARY
(Continued From Page One) 
appreciation, in belialE of the Libra
ry of Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, for these gifts, and to thank the 
faculty and students who were in
strumental in placing them In the col
lection.
CAMPUS QUEEN TO BE
HONOR GUEST AT DANCE
(Continued From Page One) 
Collegiate Imps in the Langley Lab
oratory. Refreshments may be had 
at the booths on the campus, and none 
will be served indoors. The decora
tions will match those on the campus.
LOSTScarab Fraternity Pin. L. 
C., Philae" engraved on back. Return 
to Les Cousins, Architecture.
* A,A
one for some time to come.
Were not going to let tho cat all 
out of the bagi yet, that will bo done 
next week in an eight-papo issue of 
Tho Tartan which will be sent out 
to every alumnus. But hereto just a 
peek. Among the new features will 
be the Kaper of the Kilties, tho 
Crowning of King Tut and a garden 
party and bridge. And of course, 
the Mardi Gras has beooniei an es
tablished! tradition. The rnsWK to be 
given on Saturday evening will ba 
the best ever. Are you still super
stitious? Better be at the Alumni 
Banquet, Saturday noon to get your 
tickets.
Let this get in your blood. Ab
sorb it, and with that and your 
spring fever you will soon bo attackod 
with a violent case of home-sickness 
to be back on the campus.
Plans For Alumni Dinner 
At Fort Pitt Sound Good
As lias beoni the custom for a num
ber of years our Alumni Federation 
will have as their guostB tho entire 
class of 1923. This is yiour chance 
to meet tho entire class and welcome, 
them as fellow alumni. Last year 
there woro live hundred and fifty 
present. This yoar we must have six 
hundred alumni, if we are to be a 
proper host.
A group of prominent guosts is be
ing; arranged, and no alumnus in the 
Pittsburgh district can afford to miss 
this party. In addition we expect a 
crowd of alumni from oufc-of-town. 
Every Clan should be well represent
ed
The committee is hard at work and 
must have your support. Get your 
tickets immediately so that your res
ervation is assured!. These tickets 
may be secured from the Aumni Of
fice or from alumni who have tick
ets for sale.
Write the Alumni Office now for 
your reservations at $2.00 each.
Support the committee so that they 
may make final arrangements.
Dont forget the date.
Saturday, May 20, 12:00 noon.
Fort Pitt Hotel.
DISCUSS SORORITIES IN
M. M. ASSEMBLY TODAY
(Contlnur-d From Page One.) 
those opposed are Hortense Purdy, 
Blair Jessop, Mildred Abel, and Ann 
Kirker. The main arguments pre
sented by those in favor of the soror
ities are as follows: (1) Will serve
to strengthen the bond between the 
two schools and will remove the bar
rier which has existed in the past, (2) 
Will raise scholarship by putting a 
premium on good scholarship, (3) in
crease interest in activities and 
thereby increase the interest In Car
negie Tech, (4) Tend to increase the 
interest shown by alumnae, (5) Will 
tend to break up the many cliques 
now existing in M. M.
AIE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
ELECTRICALS TO HOLD
BANQUET AT CHATHAM
(Continued From Page One) 
who have signed up for Electrical 
Engineering will have an opportunity 
at this banquet to get acquainted with 
tho faculty and students of the Elec
trical Department at this banquet. 
They are requested to get in touch 
with some member of the banquet 
committee before this evening. The 
committee in charge is composed of 
C. C. Ragsdale, II. F. Dieter, J. F. 
Lamb, Hissom, and Tatum. Members 
of all classes who expect to attend the 
banquet must secure their tickets 
sometime today from the committee.
Y. M. C. A. SMOKER HELD 
IN UNION ON SAT. NIGHT
Kilt Contributions 
Still Coming Slowly
Kiltie Band Will Feature 
Campus Week
Tho band in their kilts have mado 
such an impression on tho Pittsburgh 
public that they have been asked to 
assist in all sorts of events, and to 
aid In tho advertisement of various 
charitablo drives, such as tlio ono for 
tho Kingsley House. When you see 
tliom at Campus Week you will bo 
equally impressed] hut dont wait till 
that time to send in your contribution, 
Alumni from Chicago and Oklahoma 
und many other distant poiuts with 
no hope of seeing tho kilts in the im
mediate future are sending in gener
ous contributions. Their names are 
given below: Leonidas Barboza,
Ruby Wellings, R. W. Freeland, H. W. 
Hartmali, Katherine Miller.
PARTIAL ELECTION
RETURNS GIVEN OUT
Last Saturday night tho Y. M. C. A. 
held a smoker in tho Union. Not s(^ 
many woro prosont as wore oxpocted, 
but, considering tho timo of tho yoar, 
tho attendance was vory good.
Fritz Bowors and Tom Griggs said 
a few words of grootlng; Mr. Kirk
patrick mndo a short addross, and 
Buddy Overond spoke upon tho sub
ject of atlilotics.
Tho feature of tho ovenlng was a 
boxing match botwoen Tommy Griggs 
and tho Maskod Wondor, In which 
Tommy gained tho doclslon by a nar
row margin. There followed a wrontllng bout botwoen Fiod Cummings and 
Frank Troschol and then, owing to 
tho nocosslty of concluding tho pro
gram a little sooner than was planned, 
ico bream and lomonado woro sorvod.
OLD MAN P. R. TO BE
BURIED ON MAY 24
(Continued From Pago On.)
Forbos to tho gully which ontors tho 
burial ground (football Held). Pass
ing down tills gully thoy will march 
across tho fiold to tho final routing 
place.
Tho body will tlion bo burlod with 
a contribution from each spectator 
which will bo u cap, band, or sock. 
There will then bo tho addross. While 
tho spoalcing takes placo, preparation 
for tho most impresslvo part of Qual
ification Day will be carried out. Tho 
chain of many links will bo brought 
forward and heated In readiness for 
the now link to be welded on. Every 
link roprosent a class taken Into the 
Carnegie Clan. The graduating class 
will also have their class numerals 
placed upon tho link which was weld
ed on three years before.
The final exercise of Qualification 
Day is the call given by the honorary 
fraternities. It is at tills time that 
the men who have been active in ath
letics or class are honored for their 
work and loyalty to their Alma Mater. 
These honoraries are: Mortar Board, 
Tau Sisma, Pi Delta Epsilon, Dragon, 
Delta Skull, Druid and Scarab.
Mortar Board, a girl's national sen
ior honorary society, chooses its 
twelve members from the Margaret 
Morrison and Arts colleges for high 
scholarship, activities In school, and 
personality.
The Sigma Delta, Arts honorary 
chooses ten men yearly for scholar
ship, activities and personality. The 
Seniors are taken in the fall the Jun
iors in the spring.
Pi Delta Epsilon, the journalistic 
honorary chooses its members from 
all schools for their work on the va
rious publications, such as Tartan, 
Puppet, and Thistle.
Scarab, the only professional hon
orary fraternity to choose their mem
bers at this time confine their mem
bership to fifteen architects.
The Dragrin, an honorary fraternity 
for Seniors select their men from 
the thred junior classes to bo active 
during their Senior year. They choose 
their men on the basis of activities 
and personality.
Delta Skull is tho same as the Dra
gon with tho exception that it In a 
junior honorary. They choose their 
men from tho Sophomore class.
Last among tho honorary fraterni
ties Is tho Druids who select their 
members from tho Freshman class on 
the basis of activities, in athletics or 
class work, and personality.
Tho call Is tho lust event of one 
of the most impressive and Important 
days of the year, for In every event 
and action on that day there is a very 
significant meaning. Woven through 
it all is the predominating spirit of 
love for our Alma Mater.
(Continued from Pago One) 
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Athlotlc Council..................W. II. Ryan
Senior Officers:
President................'C. N. Hollingsworth
Vico President.............Enos Johnston
Secrotary ..................................R. Clement
Treasurer ...........................D. A. Shorlco
Senate ..........................................................
W. II. Ryan, E. Johnston, E. R. 
Patton.
Junior Offllccrs:
Presldont ....................................M. Matter
Vice Prosldent..........................E. Gilbert
Secretary ......................................J. Bright
Treasurer ........................M Scrimgeour
Houat. ..Don Gardner, Cy Hoennlnger
Thistle ...............................................G. Slyo
Sophomore Officers:
Presldont ..................................C. Donahue
Vico President.........................C. E. Wost
Secrotary .............................C. R. Wilson
Treasurer .......................J. M. OConnor
Sonata .........................................C. E. Wost
Thistle...........P. B. Boyd, F. Lovolnnd
ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS 
Asoombly Officer:
Prosldent ......................Toasdalo Barney
Vico Prosldont.........Holon B. Johnson
Secrotary ...........................Wayno Koppoa
Sonlor Officers:
Prosldont ..................J. D. Mawhlnnoy
Soorotary ...........\. .Grtolleri Hoffnum
Treasurer ..................................Earl Gross
Colinoli ........................................Al Reid
Junior Officers:
Prosldont ........................O. B. Nowmr.ii
Socrolnry .......................... Ellon Eymun
Troasuror ........................ Goorgci Allison
Thistle ..........................................................
J. It. Rood, E. Mlllor, D. H. Garbor.
IHIIstorlun ......................... Wnltor Loubu
Sophomoro Officer:
Prosldont .................... Myron Goodwin
Vice Prosldont.............Margaret Giftin'
Secretary ...................... Mary Sawders
Troasuror....................Harold Wagoner
Sonato ...........................,.n). Cl. Wheeler
Thistle..............E. G. Wheeler, J. Osier
The election In tho Mft/rffftrot Morri
son Carnegio Collogo:
Sonlor Olaao:
Prosldont..............Francos MoClymonds
Vico Prosldont....................Miriam, Bond
Soorotary    ................Murgarot Carnos
Treasurer ........................   Grace Adams
See. Chair................ .Elizabeth Lewlg
Somite Rop...............................Mary Ilollig
Junior Clnoc:
Presldont ................................Mary Speers
Vice Prosldent...................Isabel Sowaah
Secretary1 ............................Helen Glllosplo
Troasuror ....................Nora Hondersou
Senate Rop.................. .Esther Johnston
Senate Treas......................Bornlce Rentz
Thistle .....................................Harriot Hart
Assistant Editor..................Carol Folght
Thistle ................................Murgarot Allen
Social Chairman..............Dorothy Smith
Sophomore Class:
President ..............................Edith Warren
Vico President...................Louise Benson
Secretary ....................Estollo Garibaldi
Treasurer .............LUlian Cunningham
Social Chairman.................Madeline Dale
Plobe Regulation............Frances Talbott
Thistle Rep...........Margaret Kaufmann
Senate .................................Barbara White
PROF. WORK WILL ADDRESS
RADIO CLUB THIS EVENING
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
should! be experienced in communi
cating with amateur and college sta
tions in tho eastern half of tho 
United States.
At present, the: club is suffering 
from a lack of operators for the sot. 
There avo a number of men in school 
who are qualified operators, but thoy 
have not joined the club; they should 
realize that it is both their duty and 
privilege to stand watch. Properly 
operated, tile Radio Club transmitting 
set can be made a big advertisement 1 
for Carnegie Tech.
HUMAN HAIRNETS 
'Made Stronger Last Longer
Duro Bello noto nro not merely
Roodthoy ixro beat. You will
ntrreo to tlmt after you try one.
Bonutlful lustretruo colorper
fectly iniuletriply Inspectedtied 
with tho fiunouB Duro knot!) to inpuro longer wour.
Auk your deulor for 
Dura Belle.
Huy them by the 
"Dozen-*, ^
A complete lino of tho moot 
bonutlful pnttorno over nnuomblod
Whore nil tho otudonto a*
C. A. HE1MERT
"Ever foremost In new Idona 
3014 FORBE8 8TREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Stnndnrd Quality Since 1802,
Y. W. C. A.
President ...............................Jane Markell
Vice President.................Florence Hill
Secretary ..........................Dorothy Smith
Treasurer...........................Virginia Pope
GUILD
President................Martha Zimmerman
Vice President................................................____________Mary Brown
Secretary ...............................Mary Speers
Treasurer .........................Isobel Sowash
GlRLSI USED KIDDY-KARS
IN NEW SWEEPSTAKES
(Continued) From Page One)
The race Its^'f should bo exciting to 
say the least. Just imagine ten or 
more Kars dashing down the track 
at <a terrific pace driven by strangely 
clad Maggie Murps and probably still 
more strangoly gowned Art School 
co-eds. Special guards will have to 
be posted along tho course in order 
to keep the excitod crowd from rush
ing Into tho path of! tho Juggernotfl 
as they pass.
We wish to commend the girls up
on the fine spirit they have shown 
by contemplating such a raco, Thoro 
is the vory essence of good sports
manship, which 1 one of tho best 
traits that a girl may havo in this 
KIddy-Kar race. We are sure it win 
bo well appreciated by tho specta
tors.
A larger cup will bo given to the 
winner oi! tho mens sweepstakes this 
year. The possession of this cup ig 
the dream of every dormitory on the 
campus, thus insuring keen competi
tion.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Cnpltnl.............................*200,000.00
8urpluonnd Undivided
Proflto........................$300,000.00
Dopoolto, Ovor - - - $4,000,000.00 
8AFE DEPOSIT BOXE8 
FOR RENT
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST.
After
Every
Meal
and give your stomach a lift.
Provides -the bit oi 
sweet- In beneficial 
lorm.
Helps Ho cleanse 
[ the iceOn and keep 
them healthy.
