CAMPUS WEEK TAGS 
ON SALE TODAY 
BUY YOURS NOW, 75c
FINAL VOTE FOE 
ELECTION OF CAMPUS 
QUEEN TODAY, 11:30
VOL. XVII. NO. 32 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 19i3
MARDI GRAS IS 
BIG FEATURE 
CAMPUS WEEK
Old Tradition Adopted From 
Carnival Custom of Mobile 
New Orleans andPasedena 
Tournament of Roses
DANCE FRIDAY NIGHT
The Mardi Gras Carnival, as it is 
found in New Orleans, Mobile and 
other southern cities, is an old tradi
tion dating back to time immemorial. 
It is more than just a celebration o a 
holiday to these people of Spanish 
and Creole ancestry. It is an institu
tion of a great city, the city of New 
Orleans with its quaint historical 
background. Pasadena, in southern 
California, has adopted the carnival 
feature in connection with its Tourna. ment of the Roses. However it would 
probably be a difficult matter to put 
on such a big affair and make it a 
success in some northern city such 
as New York, for the people must 
have the carnival frame of mind. This 
is something that can develop only 
with the passage of time.
The following extract from an art
icle in the Overland Monthly of 
March, 1907, gives in a few words the 
Mardi Gras idea: From time im
memorial Mardi Gras has been cele
brated in the Crescent City by a gen
eral masquerade of the populace with
out regard to age or sex, and with a 
very slight distinction as to condition. 
In motley disguise, the harlequin, the 
exagerated dandy, the ape, the Indian, 
the monk and the devil parade the 
streets, singly, in couples, or groups; 
thronging public places, throwing 
flour on the unwary, up to the time 
when the throwing of flour or con
fetti was prohibited by law, visiting 
their friends and performing every 
species of antics for the edification of 
the public and amusement of them
selves.
The translation of the words Mardi 
Gras'is Fat Tuesday. The carnival 
takes place on the day before Ash 
: (Continued on Page Four.)
Officials Announced 
For Sweepstake Race
Four Trophies Now on Dis
playFast Time Predicted
Every day that passes brings the 
most thrilling and exciting event of 
the year that much nearer. As the 
time approaches for the race, for the 
Sweepstakes is the event to which we 
refer, the interest in the various 
camps (Fraternity (Houses) of the 
racers reaches fever height. From 
the discussions and interest one 
would) imagine the winner of the race 
was to receive an enormous purse but 
in reality he does not win a monetary 
reward; he does receive the honor of 
bringing the cup to his fraternity.
The officials of the course have 
been selected after careful considera
tion for it is necessary that these 
men be above suspicion and of the 
highest moral integrity. Bill 
Pfouts, Cap Dcsey and Doc 
Marks were duly selected. They urge 
(Continued on Page Eight.)
1923 Thistles Will Be
Out Saturday Morning
The 1923 Thistle will make its bow 
to the world next Saturday when the 
book will be ready for distribution. 
The Thistle Board announces that a 
completely new and novel arrange
ment of the Senior pages has superceded the old one and presents a veiy 
marked improvement in the. appear
ance of the book.
Many other new features are to be 
found in the 1923 Thistle and pur
chasers will have a book that will 
be worth keeping for the long years 
to come so that sonny may know what 
his Alma Mater looked like in the 
days when daddy went to college.
The book will be distributed on 
Saturday morning. At exactly 10 a. 
m. the committee will be in room 
14, Industries, and will there redeem 
receipts and collect the final install
ments on the book. The date was 
selected in the hope that residents 
(Continued on Page Eight.)
KDKA BROADCASTS GIRLS
GLEE CLUB PROGRAM
A splendid program of the Girls 
Glee Club was broadcasted last Tues
day evening by KDKA. Several of 
the numbers which have been so well 
received at recent concerts were 
given, and in addition there were 
solos by Miss Lenore Davies on the 
piano and Miss Eleanor Mechlenburg, 
who sang. The Stringers were to 
have had a place in the program but 
owing to the fact that all their num
bers were copyrighted they were not 
permitted to broadcast them.
FINAL PUPPET NUMBER
ON SALE CAMPUS WEEK
The new Puppet which is to appear 
on the campus immediately before 
Campus Week has gone to press and 
will be on sale May 21. The number 
will be a real issue of 36 pages and 
will outdo the famous "Tootin  
number.
All in all, it will be the best num
ber that Puppet has put out this year. 
The cover is by Chuck Cooper and 
E. P. Couse. Puppet salesmen will 
circulate through the crowds Campus 
Week and it will .also be sold to the 
alumni at the Skibo Inn.
A.K.E. ACCEPTED BY 
ETA KAPPA NU FRAT
Local Electrical Engineering 
Honorary Fraternity Goes 
National
Another local honor society has 
brought a chapter of a national or
ganization to the Carnegie campus. 
Alpha Kappa Epsilon, local electrical 
organization, has been granted a 
charter by Eta Kappa NuEta Kappa. Nu is an electrical engi
neering honorary society which se
lects its members on a basis of schol
arship and activities. It has seven
teen chapters, located at leading en
gineering and technical schools, and 
has several strong alumni organiza
tions. One of these is located in 
Pittsburgh.
Alpha Kappa Epsilon has been 
ognized for nearly two years by the 
Student Council and has been operat
ing quietly in the electrical depart
ment. It was founded with the in
tention of actively supporting the 
American Institute of Electrical En
gineers. Some of its chief activities 
include an annual smoker for the fac
ulty and students of the Electrical 
Engineering Department, supervision 
and control over all1 electrical con
struction and decoration on the 
campus during Campus Week, and an 
active part in the electrical exhibits 
of Exhibition Night. These activities 
have extended! over a period of two 
years.
The active members of Alpha Kap 
(Continued on Page Eight.)
Campus ^eek Pictorial
WOMENS BANQUET PLANS
COMPLETE, TICKETS READY
BAGPIPES TO ASSIST
BAND IN ITS KAPERS
An original feature for a funeral 
will b.e, presented for the first time 
on qualification day, immediately fol
lowing the burial of the Plebe regu
lations. The Kiltie Band after a 
long, hard practice has perfected a 
series of complicated, manoeuv!ers 
and marching formation which they 
will place before the public on the 
football green Thursday afternoon. 
They will he attired in full Scotch re
galia and the effect produced will be 
exceeding novel and picturesque.
After marching at the head of the 
funeral procession to the Carnegie 
Oval, they will form ranks, and un
der the leadership of their able com
mander, Carl Hogle, proceed to dis
play their skill and training.
The first manoeuver will be to 
march down the field in regular or
der, to wheel, march half-way back 
and at a command, slowly merge 
their ranks and form an enormous 
human C. I. T. In this formation 
they will march slowly across the 
field towards the' grandstand. This 
novel spectacle will be followed by 
another manoeuver in which they 
form the large letter C and again 
move slowly across the field.
These actions will all be performed 
to the snappy tunes of Scotch music, 
which will be especially good, due to 
the presence of an extra group of 
bag pipes, who have been hired for 
the occasion.
Another feature of the performance 
will be several Highland dances ex(Continued on Page Eight.)
CAMPUS WEEK 
PLAY ENTITLED 
RABBIT FEET
To Be Presented at Schenley 
Theatre on Saturday May 
26 Afternoon and Evening. 
Are You Superstitious?
ALL SEATS AT $1.00
Completed Senior Fence At Last
To Greet the Seniors of the Past
The construction of the Senior 
Fence is at last under way and will 
be completed by] the end of the week 
so that it may be opened for use 
next Monday. This is very fortunate 
since it will give the Seniors several 
days of practice before Campus Week 
and it is hoped that they will make 
quite a hit with the Alumni.
The lumlber has finally been se
cured, a rail in Pittsburgh and the 
rest in Greensburg, and is now being 
worked up by various willing Seniors. 
Great care is being exercised to re
move all splinters and) similar pro
jections that might prove dangerous 
if in voluntary yi separated from the 
rails.
The fence as before stated, will 
parallel Woodlawn avenue next to the 
but being designed to afford maximum 
ease when studying, talking and 
sight-seeing. A special arrangement 
of shifts for windy days is being 
worked out, the period of the shift to 
vary inversely with the velocity of 
the wind.
Credit should be given the rov'- 
mittee, consisting of Messrs.. Jack 
Hallam, Hugh Sprinkle and Bruce 
Powrie, for having accomplished the 
work in the fact of the difficulties 
they have met up with. The com
mittee members, furthermore, reserve 
the right to be the first to carve 
their initials in the fence.
The bird has flown! The Golden 
Rooster has flewed the coop!! But 
de niggah am on its trail! Harry 
Hamilton has told the story of his 
Campus Week Play to the reporter, 
and withal the reporter was in such 
haste to get where he could put it 
into print that he nearly lost the con
tinuity. However, here is the latest 
dopethe last distillate!!
Rabbit Feet, that being the name 
of the production, is to be presented 
to the public at the Schenley Theater, 
May 26, in the afternoon and in the 
evening. Mr. O. B. Newman will func
tion as head cullud fellah, and will 
be in his prime (for the second time 
this 3rear). Miss Marguerite Harmon 
(Continued on Page Four;
to
Week
Seventeen Fraternities Take 
Part Next Wednesday
Seventeen Carnegie fratornitios CAMMM 
open the Campus Week festivities 
Thursday, May 23, with the holding 
of the annual Interfraternity Migra
tory Dance.
This dance has been a feature of 
Campus Week from the first and each 
year it ha3 grown in popularity 
among the fraternity men. Open 
house will be held at each of the 
fraternity houses with the Freshman 
acting as hosts while the upper class
men visit the other Greeks 011 the 
Campus. Several of the fraternities 
will have trucks to transport the 
traveling dancers while others will 
use machines. Many of the houses 
have novel decorations that will far 
surpass those of last year.
INDUSTRIES PLEBE
DANCE FRIDAY
The Plebe class of Industries will 
hold a dance on Friday evening, May 
18, in the Union. Members of the In
dustries Sophmore class will be ad
mitted free, all others will be taxed 
one dollar and a quarter. The music 
will be furnished by the Collegiate 
Imps.
GYM CONTRACT 
IS AWARDED TO 
CARNEGIE MAN
S. M. Seisel, Civil Engineering 
Graduate, to Start Work 
on New Building Imme
diately
The contract for the construction 
of the new gym has finally been 
awarded to the S. M. Siesel Com
pany for $340,000, and it is hoped 
that, tliei work will be finished next 
spring.
The preliminary surveys have been 
made and in a few days the site will 
be marked by building activities. The 
work will start at once asd will bo 
pushed as rapidly as possible in order 
to finish in a minimum possible time.
May Lay Cornerstone.
If the construction proceeds with 
sufficient rapidity, Dr. Baker desires 
to have the cornerstone laid during 
Senior Week, probably on Commence
ment Day, and should this prove 
(Continued on .Page Four.-)
Which of These Three, Will Be Queen?
roov 'ooooooooooooooooTho womens banquet during Cam
pus Week will bo held in tho Com
mons 011 Friday night before the 
Mardi Gras. During the dinner and 
after there will be music and speeches 
by members of tho faculty, alumni 
and of the studont body. I11 addition 
to these things there will bo other 
novel features which will not be an
nounced until the night of tho ban
quet. The plans are well under way 
and It is expected that tho banquet 
will be more than twice as well at
tended as the one last year and twice 
as successful. The tickets will be 011 
sale this week.
FINAL SHILLING ALMOST
READY FOR DISTRIBUTION
The final Issue of the Shilling, the 
fourth this year, will make its appear
ance 011 tho campus the week follow
ing Campus Week.
This issue will be the work of the 
new staff recently' elected and head
ed by Ann Kirker of M. M. Dorothy 
Grant, T. S. Repplier, Blair Jessop, 
Walter Leuba, Kevin OCallahan and 
Dorothea Wood are contributors to 
this nur her which will be devoted 
the most part to poetry.
VAUDEVILLE SHOW 
TO START FROLIC
Will be Held in Music Hall 
on Thurs. at 10:30 A. M. 
Varied Program
Ohio Newman says his thunder 
will all be thundered if much more is 
said, about the Vaudeville Show! 
However, there is 110 rule against 
stealing peoples thunder, so one or 
two facts of intorost will bo added 
to tho present collection.
Tho show, which will officially open 
Campus Week, will be presented In 
tho Carnegie Music Hall, and the ad
mission will bo by tag only. No 0110 
will bo admlttod without a tag! How
ever, to avoid embarrassment, tags 
will bo sold at tho door, 75 cents. Tho 
porformanco will be composod of 
short plays, one of which has been 
written by Harry Hamilton, and la 
to bo playod ,by the Margaret Morri
son Co)logo Girls, and It will bo furChop enhanced by musical numbers 
from such notorious groups as tho 
Maloneys and the Colloglate Six. 
This last rovolatlon Is a secret, PU 
dont lot Ohio know you are wise!
Wo ftpoalc again of Dummy S*/,old's 
Bod-Room Farce, for wo think that 
It Is deserving of tho mention. Novor 
before have such s-tartllng things boon 
put boforo a Carnegie nudlonco as 
will bo prosontod by Dutnmy and Co. 
Thoso whtf wore fortunate ,onongh to 
soo Dummy In TI10 Taming of tho 
Shrew will wonder how ho will be 
able to got away with a nice, oasygolng, dainty little bodroom comedy, 
butjust wait! You will soon uoo.
LAST ISSUE OF TECHNICAL 
JOURNAL OUT THURSDAY
rtjf Com Harmon ~[
Ruth Barton, Peg Harmon, and held in the four schools last Wednes-1 in Margaret Morrison, while Peg HarI T) Rphnm liorfr urara c*nl nr-tnri n f; r ............................1.. 1................... .... j ,___ 11..Eleanore Schmberg, were selected as 
the candidates for the Queen of 
Campus Week st the primary elections
day.
Of these, three Ruth Barton and 
Eleanore Schmberg are both Seniors
mon .spends her spare time in tho 
College of Fine Arts. All three girls 
(Continued on Page Four)
Tho last lssuo of tho Carnegie 
Technical Journal to appear on tho 
campus this semester, will bo on sale 
tomorrow noon, and const Itutos tho 
fruits of tho best efforts of the new
ly inaugurated staff.
Somo articles of exceptional merit 
have beoen secured among which is 
an ossay on Edible Gelatin by 
Thomas B. Downey, Ph. D., of tho 
Mellon Institute of Industrial Re
search who Is considered one of tho 
best authorities on tills subject in 
America, discussing the merits of 
gelatin as a food.
Professor McCullough of the Civil 
Engineering Department, describes 
the production and uses of pre-cast 
concrete blocks in building construc
tion. Dillon Smith of the Armstrong 
Cork Company, explains the use of 
hard-molded plastic.
Paul W. Emmel, director of Service 
of the Collins Service Corporation, 
discusses the business outlook com
prehensively but brieflly, andi J. D. 
Miller gives some data of the effect 
of humidity on dust explosions.
Human Relations in Industry, one 
of the best Tau Beta Pi themes, and 
Calibration of a Gas Flow Meter by 
W. J. Lyman are written in an in
teresting manner and the latter is 
of considerable value to anyone scien
tifically engaged.
CAMPUS WEEK 
TAGS ON SALE 
ALL THIS WEEK
Tags Will Include Admission 
to All Events Without: Ex
tra Cost Except Coronation 
Dance and Main Show
TAGS ARE SIX BITS
Tags for Campus Week will Ew 
placed 011 sale today. Tho sala wiKL 
continue all this week and up Ca> 
Thursday of next woelc. They vvtNi 
be sold at the nominal price of sev
enty-five cents or six bits. This : 
tho best investment that was ever 
offered to the student body of C&r*- 
negio Tech; only seventy-five cenis 
for a tag that will admit you to seveju 
big events of Campus Week. Thun 
tag is octagonal in shape and dlviiKeitL 
into seven parts eacn of which, asw 
numbered to represent one even. 
Those numbers will bo punched ass 
the events are attended. Everyonsa 
should have a oue hundred per oanlt 
perforated tag at the end of the week.
Tho first event Is the vaudeville 
show which will be staged at asaeniibly in the Carnegie Music Hall Thuir.Trday morning. This shovfr is going- to 
bo one continuous laugh for tho prinv 
cipals aro well ved'sed in the art 
mirtli-making. The plot in itself zsh 
sures ono of a good laugh but wliero 
Dummy Szold and O. B. Newman ams 
going to be leading characters in a; 
Bodroom Farce, then wo know th.t 
it Is going to bo funny.
Part No. 2 of the tag will admit ycuu 
to tho Quailflcatlon Day exorcise aniH 
tho field events at Carnoglo Tccto 
Held. This Is one of tho most imporP.- 
ant events of'Campus Week, ono tlufcfl. 
has a real moaning to ovory student. 
This is ono event that ovoryemtn 
should Avitness.
Tho coronation of tho Queen vjilU 
take place Thursday evening In 6ft 
open air theater. This Is always am 
Interesting and picturesque ovont. FWflowing tho coronation will be Ihtu 
Coronation Dance In tho Arts Foyer 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Oriental Decorations 
To Disguise Campus:
Dancers to Enter Dragon's: 
Mouth Campus Week
Tho plans for Campus Wook d^cn* 
rations aro progressing rapidly. Teaudale Barney and "Oy Comfort, vriltti 
a corps of assIMunta, aro makinr; 
many pleasing and lntoroutlng de
signs, Tho: main outrance to thw 
Arts Building, Langley Lab.. Thtv 
Union and an, entrando to the.' cut wiy 
to bo tho principal, places to bo dteaoi'utod. All adornment and, lighting 
olfoet will bo orientai!.
Tho tentativo plans aro to hawn 
a Chinese dragon constructed In front', 
of tho Arts School. Thliii mousteir 
will bo so placed that to enterr tiw> 
building ono will have to go througVi 
its mouth. With Incense flamine:, 
from tho nostrils, and rodi light 'forr 
tho eyes, It promises to be a. no.vtlil 
and interesting feature.
Langloy Lab. is to bo disguised1..
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Winners of College Wit 
Contest Not Yet Decided
The winners of the Judge Collefpo 
Wit Contest, in which many CarneRa 
students took part in a competifcrtmu 
for tho prizes that are offered annaaSly by Judge, have not entirely fotsern 
determined. The College Wits num
ber, which was published last week* 
was not large enough to contain till 
of the material which entered. 4iw> 
contest and was accepted, and rm 
overflow number will be published 
this week.
The winner of the silver Art Tro
phy this year is R. J. Holmgren off 
Columbia. The Literary Trophy was; 
awarded to Nortlicutt Ely of Stanford. 
The college winning the College Coy> 
has not been decided and will be an
nounced in the next number. It xsv 
(Continued on Page Eight.)
Maggy Murphs Mysterious
Machinations Mistify Males
Unless you have that steady habit 
there is no use In calling up the 
girls dorms for a/ date, Each and 
every one of the dorms is tho scene 
of throbbing Industry. For two weeks 
Forbea 'Hall has been tho recipient 
of many mysterious bundles. Curl 
ous neighbors on investigating, have 
found that tho bundles contained 
voile, dimity,, crepe, tricotlnc-, twill, 
chiffon, ote., of all shales and colors. 
Similar arrivals have jibe on noted at 
til-/ Woodlawn. dorms.
M. M. Bulildlng Crowded, Too.
No later than last Monday Frank 
Orbln and Colonol Fairley, in making 
their annual rounds of the campus, 
found the walls of the Margaret Mor
rison building: bulging and in dfro 
danger of collapse. Yielding to the 
impulse of tho moment, Mr. Orbir. 
sent in a fire alarm. The fire trucks
and Deam Tarbell arrived) simultane
ously.
Tho Dean Avas quickly chosen aai 
leader of the Investigating commit
tee and at the dire risk of banj; 
suspected of different motives climbed' 
up a ladder and peered Into the win
dows of the* building.
Whpt Did He 8ce?
Such a sight to me cl, the gaze! Tim 
dressmaking class was crowded to ca
pacity, girls werei rushing the doora, 
seeking room Insldo. Those inaWo, 
packed as they wore, were busily angaged fn sowing. Needles and clever* 
remarks weiv, flying In all directions:, 
Even tile sight of Dean Tarbell peep
ing in at them from the window 
failed to attract comment-except 
that those girls who had been eating, 
quickly hid their candy under tho 
(Continued on Page Eight.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1923
QUALIFICATION 
AND TAP DAY 
CAMPUS WEEK
Plebe Regulations Funeral 
Procession to Be Led By 
BandClass of 1926 Will 
Enter Clan Thursday Aft.
HONORARIES SELECT
On Thursday afternoon, of Campus 
iWeek, the annual Qualification Day 
Exercises "will take place. This fu
neral procession will start in front 
of the Arts School and led by the 
Band in kilts will travel over the 
usual and accustomed route to the 
scene of burial which will be in the 
amphitheater behind the old gym.
The Band will play the same old 
funeral march as has been done in 
previous years and by so doing the 
ceremony will be most solemn and 
.unique. Also tbe mourners can more 
fully realize their duty, while listen
ing to the wailings of the Band.
Directly behind the Band will be 
the Carnegie Clan Chain and this in 
turn will be followed by the coffin 
jesting on the shoulders of the pallbearers, group of mourners, custom
ary group of white,-clad girls and 
lastly the non-clad Plebes from the 
three men schools.
The scene of the funeral will be 
quite highly decorated to meet the 
occasion. On the right of the speak
ers stand will be the Kilted Band 
and on the left the tombstone and the 
yawning grave.
The chairman of the exercises has 
not announced the speakers, but in 
all probability a great surprise will 
be given.
After the ceremonies of interment 
are completed, the Kiltie Band aug
mented by the Bag Pipers will dem
onstrate a myriad of evolutions and 
convolutions of such intricacy as will 
/dazzle the eyes of the spectators.
The Call Day Exercises under the 
auspices of the Shah of Persia will be 
effervesced by the following socie
ties: Mortar Board, Dragons, Delta
Skull, Druids, Tau Sigma Delta, Pi 
Delta Epsilon.
It is also rumored that the Senior 
Commercials will tap certain Junior 
Commercials, who are to assume the 
dignities and forbearances of their 
(Senior Comm.) highly exalted posi
tion during the next year.
It is firmly believed in all borders 
that, as each 'Senior Comm, taps his 
respective Junior he will place on 
him that wonderful mystic symbol 
of commercialism, known as the 
"White Winged Hat, which stands for 
purity) and that has been so much in 
evidence on the campus during the 
past week.
Below is a sample page of The Campus Scavenger, a daily publication to be issued during 
Campus Week. The sheet will be published by Pi Delta Epsilon, honorary Journalism fraternity 
in the interests of promoting publicity for Campus Week. Help us to boost Carnegie publications 
by subscribing to the S CAVENGER.
PAG ETWOHC RNTIGDSGY
AN IRRESPONSIBLE DAILY
Weather: Or Not.Carnegie Institute of Technology, Wednesday, May 16, 1923.5c the Copy.
Fierce Fire Fans Food Factory
KANDIDATES KRAVE TO KROWN KING
TERRIFIC HAVOC IS WROUGHTRY VALIANT FIRE FIGHTERS
INDIGNANT CUSTOMER SUSPECTED
CARNEGIE CHAIN
One of the most interesting fea
tures of Qualification Day is the weld
ing of a new link on the Carnegie 
chain. The link will be stamped 
with the numerals of .1926 and repre
sents another class which is admit
ted on equality with the other class
es at Carnegie. The plebes have then 
undergone regulations for a year and 
may call themselves true Carnegie 
men.
Before the school year of 1914-1915, 
Class Day was held during Commencement Week and there were 
four school Qualification Days, each 
separate and distinct and there 
might be a question as to whether 
they were Qualification Days such as 
, the one to be held Campus Week.
The present chain was first thought 
. of and used in the Qualification Day 
ercises of March 19, 1915. To Pro
fessor J. S. Taylor is due the credit 
for thinking of the idea and putting 
.it into practice. Professor Taylor is 
the head of the Forge Department 
and while preparations were being 
made for Techs first Qualification 
Day on March 9, 1915, he suggested 
that a chain be made, every' class be
ing represented by a link. The first 
graduating class was the class of '08 
and the chain starts with the link of 
that class. Professor Taylor prepared 
a chain of ten links representing the 
ten classes since the class of '08.
The most unique feature of the 
first Qualification Day was the weld 
ing of the plebe link to the Carnegie 
class chain and the stamping of the 
1915 link. Professor J. S. Taylor act
ing as Vulcan, presented an interest
ing appearance in his costume of 
pinky tights, with sandals on his feet 
and tongs of leather wrapper around 
his legs. A leather apron adorned 
his waist, and a long, busy, black 
beard covered his face. The after
noon of March 9, 1915, was rainy 
and Carnegie Tech Field was a sea 
of mud, but thji ceremonies went on 
unhindered and for two hours Carne
gie's first Vulcan stood in the driz
zling rain welding the link of the 
class of 1918.
After these ceremonies, the history 
of the chain is vague, and as the 
story goes, the chain was put in Arts 
Building and was used in several 
plays given by the Drama Depart
ment. From there it was taken over 
to the College of Engineering forsome unknown reason.
Then for two years the chain was 
hidden. Several searching parties 
were organized and every building in 
the school was examined and a re
ward was offered) for its return. As 
time went on the chain was forgot
ten, until one day a chain was 
noticed hanging on one of the steel 
beams in the dome of the Union.
WTiether this was the original chain 
or not was the question. The chain 
was sent to Professor Taylor and he 
identified it as the original chain, be
cause of each "mark" that he put in 
when he forged it. After this disap
pearance the chain has been safety 
guarded and only brought out foi 
Qualification Day exercises.
As the glorious Spring moon sunk slowly out of 
sight behind the hills in Schenley Park last night, our 
beautiful campus suddenly rang with the clarion call of 
Eire, fire! eminating from that notorious hostelry and 
Hash House, Skibo Inn. A passing student had noticed 
that the air of the vicinity was particularly smoky, but 
supposing that the dormatory girls had received a box 
of Home Buns from home, he paid no more attention to 
the matter. Suddenly, however, he was startled to no
tice a number of people on the ran toward the Inn, and 
this being so contrary to the usual attitude, he found, 
upon closer inspection, that flames were leaping out of
the structure and bevies of field mice,UNCLE BILLY'S
for many years happy inhabitants of 
the Inn, were rushing hither and yon, 
blinded by the smoke. At once the 
alarm was sounded, and upon the cir
culation o.f the report that the Science 
building was on fire, the mens dormi
tories turned out en masse.
Mr. Little, the popular proprietor 
of Skibo, appeared fully shaven, and 
becomingly clad in pink and white 
pajamas, trimmed with monkey fur. 
He said the fire had started a lit
tle ahead of schedule, but that all 
things considered, it was doing pretty 
well. Scores of ravishing damsels 
from the Woodlawn dormitories hast
ily donned lcimonas, and upon their 
appearance in the street, fourteen 
men fell dead. The deceased were 
said to have had dates with the young 
ladies the following evening; an at
tending physician pronounced death 
due to shock and heart failure.
The fire fighters at once manned the 
fountain in front of the Inn, and bold
ly placing the index fingers over the 
jet, managed to squirt a powerful 
stream of crystal-clear water onto the 
flames. To add to the excitement, a 
half a horse, which was being saved 
for the following Sunday In the box, 
caught fire and added to the various 
odors already in circulation. The 
blaze had been in progress for but, a 
few moments when a terrific explo
sion rent the air, believed to have 
been caused by overheating an apple 
pie; McKeesport reports bits of 
cheese sandwiches came down in the 
vicinity this morning, while Braddock 
has phoned that they are holding a 
hard roll, undamaged, until called for.
It is believed that the blaze was 
started by a customer who had been 
induced to try the Inn for the first 
time. The damages by the fire 47 
cents, by the firemen 75 dollars.
Our Line of Cribs
and Ponies
Recommended by the 
Leading Professors of
CARNEGIE TECH
Second-hand Problems ; 
in Calculus.
If our service is poor, 
dont complain
So is our line of goods.
STUDENTS BOOK STORE
JAMES BROTHERS
BEDTIME STORY
(Written Specially for The Scavenger 
by William E. Mott)
And now, children, said Uncle 
Billy kindly, with his dear old face 
beaming with his usual desire to do 
everybody and do them good, what 
sort of a bedtime story will you have 
today?
Ooh, Uncle Bil-ly, piped up 
little Cyrus Comfort, the freshman, in 
his childish treble. "Tell us about 
the big bad pro-fessor who teached 
at Tech.
"Well," went on Uncle Billy, as he 
took another shot from the brown bot
tle, There was once a sweet, kind, 
old man who taught Mathematics at 
Tech, and
Hell, remarked little Reddy Godden, in his own sweet childish way, 
We dont want to hear no fairy 
tales.
Tut, tut, said Uncle Billy reprov
ingly, How many times have I told 
you not to use the double negative. 
Reddy, you should study your grammer. But, chil-dren, I must get on 
with the story.
This kindly old Math teacher was 
so dear and sweet that it grieved him 
deeply to give bad grades, but he 
feared that if he passed too many the 
faculty would give him the razzberry
Listen, Uncle Billy, said two-yearold Max Rosenbloom, who had entered 
eating a piece of bread and jam, 
what is it, the razz-berry?
Max no difference, returned Un
cle Billy as he reached for the brown 
bottle, and went on with his story.
At last after several years when 
tke dear told teacher had been bound
ed on the North and South with Fs 
and on the East and West with Rs, 
they sent him off to teach in another 
division.
Ooooh, oh, and again oh, stut
tered little Pop Anderson, as he 
brushed back his long, curly, luxur
iant locks, And did the mean Archi
tects kill him?
They were not architects, ex
plained Uncle Billy, his pink nose 
twinkling, They were Murphs.
Aw, tie de bull outside, piped up 
Little Dutch Zelt in his soprano tones, 
youse is full of hop.
Ha, ha, ha," laughed Uncle Billy, 
amused by the little boys clever hu
mor. But children, the strange part 
of the whole affair Is that thereafter, 
the nasty, mean, bold, bad Math Prof 
gave nothing but As and Bs."
Hell," exclaimed little Peter 
Thomson, Who wouldn't? Pass the 
bottle, Uncle Billy."
Senior Fence to Be Dedicated;
Dr. Esquiesse to Open Ceremony
Frank Corbin Explains Delay 
in Building
Hugh Owen Sprinkel will cast aside 
his shovel, nail file, and cement mixer 
long enough on May 24 to dedicate 
the first installment of the Senior 
Fence to the sons of those papas who 
expect to graduate when the new gym 
is completed.
On being interviewed by a Scaven
ger reporter, the Huge iSigmanut gave 
the following reasons for the delay In 
tho building of tho fence. First, 
seze, placing his paw on the shoulder 
of his helper Frank Corbin, tho la
borer had a strike and refused to 
work unless he had more money. 
When I settled tho labor troubles one 
of tho Campus Queon nominees leaned 
against tho posts and broke them off 
a foot below tho ground. After I fixed 
that with LePages, tho Discipline 
Committee reported to the Doan of 
the Mathematics department that no 
nonsense would be tolerated and un
less the committee of ono in charge 
of the fence took immediate steps to 
increase its elevation with respect to 
the elevation of the cutsay gimme a 
chew, my throats getting dry.
But in spite of the delays tho Sen
ior Settee is hero and will positively 
be dedicated on May 24. The cere
monies will open with a very impres
sive talk by Dr. Esquiesse on The 
Esthetic Value of tho Fatima. As 
soon as the wagon is full a triplet will 
be rendered by Ed. Gilbert, soprano; 
T. S. Repplior, Associated Press, and 
Pat Ryan, Jews Harp. (At this point 
the spectators will arrive, not having 
missed much). The band will play 
a new tune entitled Dear Old Tech, 
after which Sprinlc will take up tho 
morning contribution, which will be 
used to defray the exponsos of a 
speaker from Battlo Creek who Is 
coming to talk on Post Holes and Post 
Toastles. Sample bo^jes of Toastlos 
will be distributed to. the crowd be
tween quarters.
Immediately after the dedication A. 
N. Hilo will open his office to issue 
cards to Seniors, giving them per
mission to lean against the fence until 
June 15. These cards will cost two 
dollars (no checks cashed).
So all out on May 24 for the dedi
cation. The band will bo there with
out kilts and many notorious charac
ters will take part in the program. 
Bring your lunch and spend the day 
with Old Mother Nature.
BY BAD BOUNDERS
Vicious, Valiant, Violent, 
Volsteaders Vanquished 
Valor in Vain
One and nine-tenths seconds after 
the announcement of free beer for all 
working men via special pipe lines 
to the Carnegie Tech campus during 
Campus Week, a great draft was cre
ated in the office of the chief booze* 
hound by the excitement caused there
by. Immediately every available 
sharp-nosed smeller was speedily 
transported to the Schenley park 
cooperage. Speculation among the 
million interested onlookers who had 
gathered with thirsty throats was at 
fever heat, for even though the fair 
and clean city of Pittsburgh was un
der the watchful eyes of the famous 
but unpopular Volstead, there were 
enough of the nfl-the-water-wagon 
gents around to make such a report to 
be of the utmost Interest.
Among these self-same million 
soused-if-they-can-get-that-way folks 
who wended their weary but hopeful 
way out to the famous Plaid institute 
free lunch counter to bo, could be 
traced the spry but at tho same time 
many times inebriated Genrul Orbun,
FORBES FLOSSY SHOOTSJEVEN
Wild Women Make Several 
Fatal Passes in Dark
Pittsburgh, Pa., May 15.Conster
nation roigned supremo on tho Car
negie Tech campus today when It was 
learned from reliablo sources that tho 
young women oL Forbe Hall were 
leading a scandalous double llfo, and 
while outwardly tho calm, demure 
young ladles who would never rob a 
man of more than fifteen bones at ono 
time, inwardlywell! But speaking 
of bones, Federal police, raiding tho 
hall early this morning, camo upon 
the den of Iniquity In full play, and 
were able to watch tho actual happen
ings at this modorn monstrosity by 
tho akl of nothing moro than tho 
naked eyo.
Load by Pollco Officer Patrick 
OCohon tho squad broko umvarnod 
into the hall, and having stalkod their 
quarry all tho way upstairs, proceed
ed to take down the ovidonco. It soon 
became evidont, reports Offlcor 
OCohen, that tho young ladios were 
Indulging in a gamo of gamboling 
ivories, and a considerable pot lay 
exposed to view on tho floor. "Tho 
girls was all smokin and carry in on 
terrible lllco, statod OCohon, blush
ing. "Toa was bein' served all around 
and whilst I was a-slttin thoro I soon 
one damo drink ovory bit av throo 
cups. As tho party got rougher, ono 
mado a tonihlo pass at tho other. 
Little Joseph, says sho at tho oth
er one. "iSaiako Eyos, holiors tho ono 
with tho horrible cubes, and trios to 
take all of thirty conts right from 
under tho other onos oyos. I give 
you my word it was horrible! Final
ly things kept goin from bad to worso, 
until ono brazen hussy takos tho in
struments of death in ono hand, and 
heaves om toward tho ono with tho 
cash. Then sho lots out a howl lllco 
a hyena! I shot seven, sho says, 
I shot seven. And what with hoarin' her admit the crime In front of all 
witnesses, wo busts In and arrests 
her."
who despite his ofttimes proud dec
laration that he never tasted a drop, 
can often be found in tho back room 
of Moerlines. Practically the entire 
faculty was also fidgety watching the 
zealous work of the army of boozechasers as they piled their unpopular 
trade, for among tills august body 
were thousands who were terribly 
afraid the source of supply would be 
uncovered, to the everlasting detri
ment of a successful Campus Week, 
for, it must be admitted that the num
ber of graduates and former students 
who would return to the campus for 
the famous revelries would surely be 
diminished much by the untimely dis
covery of this secret.
So, all you alumni who had at first 
become a bit backward about return
ing upon hearing of the determined 
attack of the citys Volstead-ers, need 
not worry, but just pack your grips, 
and come on. Ye Campus Scavenger 
guarantees a warm and wet welcome!
g POSITIVELY
 the cheapest food on the * 
| campus. :j:
| ABSOLUTELY f
our meals are tough. Bo '{ 
| are our waiters. 
| Campus 
| Scrap-eat-eria j
HON. BEAN AS KING 
OF THE SHINDIG IS 
POPULAR CHOICE
Who Will Krown Him 
Now is Burning on 
All Lips
Hear ye! Hear ye! Hear yo!
This, tho only true stoiy in this 
whole conglomeration of condonsed 
slwash to be found on tho pages of tho 
Campus Scavengor, treats of nono 
other than ono of our most belovod 
campus politicians and offlciarlos. It 
will tell of tho honor done him by an 
admiring student body in recognition
HONORABLE BEAN
of the prlcoloss sorvlcon ronderod 
them in tho way of securing dormi
tory rooms not wanted, in oxtondlng 
tho time of studont graft funds, in up
holding tho sacred standards of dis
ability as far as tho schoolelastlc re
quirements of tills our belovod Alma 
Mater are concorned, and a host of 
other noteworthy acts too insignificant 
to mention, due to lack of space and 
other slight obstacles, such as tho 
fact that we intend to graduate event
ually from this Slamitarium. Now 
listen:
What morei worthy than that tho 
Campus Queen should have a King. 
Nothing unless it were two kings, for 
one dinky pair has often been known 
to cause the downfall of many a 
worthy aspiration. And what more 
worthy than that tho King should be 
the man, who by dally contact, spirit
uous and otherwise, with the true 
gentlemen on the campus who seek 
better plumbing facilities in the dor
mitories along with more frequent 
cleaning of the upstairs windows on 
the opposite side of Woodlawn ave
nue, has become Imbued with all that 
is good, that is true, worthy, note
worthy, manly, gentlemanly; in short, 
is the re-incarnation of all the best 
qualities of all the swashbucklers the 
world has known since, well, since 
long ago.
This fact was so well recognized 
that the Hon. Bean even received five 
votes for Queen of Campus Week, 
and was unanimously elected King of 
the Shindig. Now the question of the 
hour burning on tho lips of all truo 
Carnegie Clansmen is: "WHO WILL 
CROWN THE KING?
Ah, Indeed a worthy motlvo, and an 
opportunity over which tho losers can 
afford to shed many a tear In agony 
at tho thought of failure.
But, fear not, the wlnnor of tho 
contest WILL NOT FAIL! The Scav
enger will PUU to that.
This sample page shows only one fourth of the good things that the regular issues of The Scavenger 
will contain. You can secure no better souvenir of Campus Week than the three issues of the 
<(Yellowest Sheet in Town. KEEP CAMPUS WEEK ALIVE!!!
SCAVENGER TO 
APPEAR DAILY 
CAMPUS WEEK
Scandalous Publication to Be 
Printed on Yellow Paper. 
Will Be Delivered Before 
Breakfast
SEE SAMPLE ON LEFT
A saiuplo page of the Campus 
Scavenger appearing in this issue is 
just a small bit of the untrutihiulness that wilL be tho policy of the 
Campus Week daily.
The Scavenger will i/dblish a pro
gram of all events of Campus Week 
but aside from that the aim of tho 
yellow sheet will he to creilte tho 
biggest sensation of the week. Point
ed on yellow paper with red ink the 
appearance alone will bo scandaliz
ing.
The Campus Scavenger is heiqg 
published by Pi Delta Epsilon, Car
negie Honorary- Journalistic Fratern
ity. The ill'st copy will bo out 
Thursday morning and will be dis
tributed to all fraternities and resi
dents of dormitories before breakfast. 
A representative will canvas tho dor
mitories this week and those sub
scribing to The Scavenger for the 
three days at five cents por copy will 
find "Carnogies Irresponsible Newspor under theJ door at sunrise.
The Scavenger will replace the 
Campus Courier of tho last two years 
and will not only be larger than tho 
Campus 'Courier but far moro enter
taining. Tlie schools most scnndalous writers arei listed on tho editor
ial staff and sensntional st.ories are 
sure to flow from their pens to fur
nish material for tho paper.
All notorious characters on the 
campus are sure to get a great many 
bumps during Campus Wook and any
one who escapes tho pen of a Scaven
ger reporter is surely groatly out of 
tho limelight as far as popularity 
goes. I-Iowovor, many a name not PU 
popular will appoar on tho yollow 
shoot, so tho appearance of onos 
name in Tho Scavengor must not bo 
taken to moan that it Is hold in oa-' 
toom and respoot on tho campus.
Tho big point la this thought. Tho 
Scavenger will help to make Campus 
Wook tho "grand old time that it 
is Intended to bo and will furnish 
tho students with throo diays of en
joyable road Ing,
Good Prospects For 
Basketball Next Year
Anderson to Captain Next 
Years B. B. Team
With tho passing of t'tUo winter 
months there passed also another bas
ket ball aoasoii at Oarnoglo Tech. 
And just us all winters are much 
alike, so this soasoii was much lllco 
those that have gouo before it. Tho 
summary shows that moro gn,mon woro 
lost than won, but the future seems 
rosy with tho number of star porformors who entorod as Freshmen.
Shortly before tho holidays, Coach 
non hubic mado a call for court can
didates. His appeal was answered by 
a large number of candidates whom 
bo procoodod to watch carefully. Lu
bic is a graduate of University of 
Pittsburgh and was a stoilar forward 
on tho Pitt varsity for four years, boing captain in 1017. Boforo coming 
to Carnegie to take tho place of tho 
formor coach, Hal Iddings, bo had 
boon auccoasful in turning out win
ning teams from Duquoano and WoatInghouao High Schools,
Lubic did not liavo to roduco .Ills 
squad at first. Tho eligibility rules at
tended to that for him. Some of 
those affected woro Captain Bell, Dosey and Moran from laat yoars team. 
In addition to those, Don Potter left 
college, and the now coach had an 
unenviable task in getting liis men 
realdy for tho opening encounter.
A western trip was taken during 
the holidays. Depauw, Butler, and 
Michigan Aggies were encountered 
and in each case the Plaid received 
the small end of the score. Jimmy 
Anderson, Acting Captain, proved to 
be the leading point getter on this 
trip. Jimmy will be back next year 
to captain the team..
The first home gdmo was against 
the Mlddlebury passers and was won 
by the Tartans after a weird contest. 
But it showed the fandom of Carnegie 
that some kind of a smooth-working 
combination might yet be developed 
from the raw material on hand.
The next two games were lost by 
narrow margins, the first to Penn 
State at State College, and the second 
at home against Geneva. After these 
two setbacks, Coach Lubic experi
mented with several changes In the 
lineupand he got results.
The first to fall before the new com
bination was West Vigrinia. W. & L. 
was next, followed by Grove City and 
Allegheny. The succession of victo
ries was unfortunately broken by Penn 
State. The qrovo City was one of the 
fastest ever played on tho local floor 
and broke a long string of eighteen 
victories on the part of the Grovers. 
Last year the West Virgin**, quintet 
handed the Plaid a doubio defeat, but 
were lucky to npllt even this year.
The story of tho romalning games 
of tho season takes away much of tho 
luster from tho victories Just men
tioned. Catholic Univorsity and 
Georgetown woro bowed to in suc
cession. West Virginia and Grove 
City obtained sweet rovengo, while 
Allegheny was handed a second lick
ing.
A word about the players who 
strove to get the Skibos a prominent 
place in the basket ball world. Jim
my Anderson, as has been Intimated, 
was the steadiest point scorer for the 
Scotch. His steady determination 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
18276126

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PICTORIAL SECTION
CARNEGIES NEW NATIONAL HONORARYPENN RELAY WINNERSMANOR OF SKIBOS1922 CROSS
COUNTRY CAFT.
RECENTLY INSTALLED AS DELTA TAU DELTA
SZOLD, GARE AND BRUM 
three members of the Penn relay team of 1923, who 
brought first place in that event to Carnegie. Chuck' 
Cooper, not pictured, was the fourth man of the team.
THE OLD MANSION 
at Camp Louise Carnegie, which housed the football 
men during fall football camp. The camp will no 
longer serve as a football training camp.
PI DELTA EPSILON
recently installed honorary journalistic fraternity, formerly Alpha Alpha Nu, local.
Sitting, left to rightH. Bowman, D. C. Porterfield, C. E. Landefeld, H. D. Sonneman, J. D. Evans, V. H. 
Stromquist, J. K. Matter, T. S. Repplier, J. D. Franklin.
Standing, left to -rightJ. A. Berno, J. M. Cooper, J. D. Mawwhinney, E. A. Brand, H. F. Simpson, R. B. 
Kellar. |
JUST A SONG AT TWILIGHTS. H. CHURCH
CAPTAIN B. GREENLAW 
leader of tho championship CrossCountry team of 1922.
MANAGER RYAN
PAT RYAN
PLAID GRIDDERSSCAVENGER SERVICE
Of the season of 1923 relaxing (?) after a hard afternoon's scrimmage. The 
picture was taken on the porch of the mansion at Camp Louise Carnegie, 
Glencairn, Pa.
The 1922 Camp marked the last gathering of Carnegie football men at 
this picturesque spot on the Allegheny river. Hereafter, fall training will be 
held in Pittsburgh previous to the opening of school and although the squad 
will be without the pleasant surroundings of the Old Mansion House and the 
attractions of Freeport a great deal of time will be saved in going from the 
campus to the football practice field.
INTERSCHOLASTIC ONE-MILE RUNSUCCESSFUL PETITIONERS OF ETA KAPPA NU
Exoluolvo portrait of 
MIS8 ANNE THROPY 
ono of tho lending contendora for hon* 
or In Cnrnogle Tooho Queen of Cam
puti Wook contest.
UNNECESSARY
THE ONE-MILE INTERSCHOLASTIC RUN 
on May 5 in which hundreds of high and prep schools were entered .included 
representatives from Ohio, Maryland, Pennsylvania and West Virginia schools.
Charter members of Carnegie Tech Chapter of 
ETA KAPPA NU
Honorary Electrical Engineering fraternity. Installation will be held at the Fort Pitt Hotel on the afternoon of
Saturday, May 19.
Standing, left to rightHorger, Brand, Lloyd, Sprinkle.
Sitting, left to rightGarbett, Milne, Coleman, Lyman, Andrews.
manager of tho 1923 Plaid football 
team. He was recently elected as a 
representativo to tho Athletic Coun
cil.PLEBE
who will suffer no more embarrassing 
moments after May 24.
head of the Board of Trustees of the 
Carnegie Institute.
active chapter and alumni of local Tau Gamma Phi recently Installed nt Carnegie, being one of the national chap
ters of fraternities located on tho campus during tho present school year. All those ploturod above were Initiated 
either as active members or alumni. .
Bits of Color From the Tartan Plaid the Past Year as Seen by the Camera
PLEBE-SOPH FLAG RUSH
RECENT PLEBE-SOPH FIGHT
which resulted at the base of the flag pole near the College of Fine Arts; 
after a flag bearing the numerals of the class of '26 had been unfurled toi 
the breeze. The flag was removed only after several black eyes had been 
administered by both sides.
BACK AGAIN
CLIFFORD B. CONNELLEY 
who has returned tc Carnegie to as
sume the position of Director of In
dustrial Relations. He formerly 
served as Commissioner of Labor of 
Pennsylvania.
PRESIDENT BAKER
THE KILTIE BAND  '
under the leadership of E. F. Sullivan lo not only the moot unique organization of any college band, but can bq 
ranked as one of the best concert organizations connected with any school In the United States.
THOMAS 8. BAKER
now head of the school, who served a 
number of years as Secretary and 
succeeded Dr. Hamerschlag upon the 
resignation of the latter.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1923
Published every week by undergraduate o the Carnegie Institute pi 
Technology under tho Huporvlnlon of the Student Actlvltlon Board.___________
filtered in the Poatoiflce of Pittsburgh as Hecond-clasa matter.
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST........................................................... Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneSchenley 0984-J
JSL IX SONNEMANN .............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 92X1
3SDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD ................................................................................ Aaaoclato Editor
H. V. SIMPSON .......................................................................................... Aaaoclate Editor
23L V. DIETER...................................................................................................AHBodato Editor
MARK S. DOWNES.................................................................................................Nowa Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
IPKE'D C. SMITH....................................................................................................Nev/a Editor
TolophonoIliland 8118-J
FRED T. PHELPS..................................................................................................Newa Editor
TolophonoSchenloy 9102
2L H. WILSON ..................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TolophonoHazel 935G
BL I*. HAY ............................................................................................................. Photographer
TfL H KELLER ............................................................................................Exchange Editor
I* JP. COUSE, JR............................................................................................................Art Editor
ft S. REPPLIER .............................................................................................. Special Writer
VK..7JL CUNNINGHAM ................................................................... Advertialng Manager
TelephoneSchenloy 9211
a. C. MAJOR.....................................................................................  Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenloy 9102 
* EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
BJminor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Ilortzman, P. D. Rossini, W. Winning, 
3L D. Richard, A. P. Andrew, B. DflMaro, E. G. Eiglo, A. E. Krogh, I. H. 
Zuirnca, R. G. Kennedy.
ATHLI3TJC CONTRIBUTORS
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Porguaon, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rossback.
BUSYNESS ASSISTANTS
T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudig, D. Moalcovitz, J. W. Netro, P. W. Reilly, II. 
C&non, P. Edio, R. L. Sandrock, B. Broudy, H. Urachel, D. Ray, E. L. Reeves, 
Jh. Grodnor.
Tho Editor-In-Chief Ja responsible for tho policy of thiB paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of atudent interest, if signed. 
Jfiljjimturo will he withheld If doircd. All now items must bo in tho student 
jwntbifico before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OfllcoRoom G-A, IndUBtrlos Building. Office liouraTuesday, 
31:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
AM I DOING MY SHARE?
That -which in drawn out is directly proportional to that put
s*.01.
A very true statement, bufc like most other true statements it lias 
Sts failings.
If I make it a rule o my life to at all times put my whole time 
and lieart into everything I do, my feet will he stumped upon,and 
advantages taken of my kindnesses. I will be called an easy mark 
.Msd treated accordingly.
"Which brings us to our own narrow little life as students at CarTOtjjio Tech. Either youre an easy mark, a politician, or a 
let-the-other-man-do-it student. Perhaps another type might be 
addedone who puts a fair amount of time, fair both to himscll: and 
the school, on activities. This type has allotted his time perfectly. 
Jle neither puts too much time on his activities nor himself. But, 
sad to relate, this type is practically non-existent at Carnegie Tech. 
The reason is not bard to find.
Affairs as they exist do not permit of such n type. As said be
fore, wero all cither easy marks, politicians, or Ict-the-otheriellow-do-it types.
An easy mark does practically all of the work; over-lmrdens 
himself; and'his studies gutter accordingly. Politicians have a 
slick way of getting out of work, and at the same time reaping the 
award of other peoples labors. The last named type never does any 
ork at allhe dont give a damn about the school activitiesonly 
mires for himself.Which brings us to the point. Changing the opening quotation 
a bit, we have: That which is drawn out is not always proportional 
io that which is put in. Fact is, at Carnegie Tech, it is practically 
aiway# true that tho man who works the hardest on an activity usu
ally gots the least out of it. Why/ Because he is so busy working 
ii,ui tho details, planning something now, taking worries, and so 
.forth, that ho has no time to really enjoy tho fruits of his labors.
CAMPUS WiEBKwhats the connection? Entirely too much 
rth work attendant to tho success of the eolobration is placed upon 
111 shoulders of a soloet few that these select. lew have little l ime to 
jay the good limes which they have worked so hard planning.
tho ...........lays of tho eolobration they aro busily engaged in
running around and getting little details ready so that everything 
will run oil in perfect style. Resultvery evident.I
So, this ill a plea to the great mass of students to help the oomai'itteos -relieve thorn a bit ol! I.liolr, worries by digging in and helping 
with the (Inal arrangemonls. Much hard work is still to lie dono.
hot us all hcl|> 1
HAVE YOU IAID YOUR Y PLEDGE?
Some students in school are not giving the Y. M. C, A. a scptare 
uU-at. They have tho mistaken idea that this organization is not 
doiiifr them any good. Accordingly they are not keeping their pledge 
Xu lidp support it financially. In other words, there are still a very 
Jew remaining who have not paid their pledges.
Not only is this unfair to the Y. JVI. C. A. but is not building 
join- character very well. It is not good for a man to make a pledge, 
and then ignore it. A man who does such a stunt, is not to be respeetcd nearly as much as tho man who always makes it. a duty to 
tap his pledges, lie may not be such a. bad person after all, but 
Just as our friend Puppet says: We would not want him to 
operate our cash register.
Looking at tho matter from another angle, the Y operates 
Tjpon a small budget, and whether the individual student thinks so or 
Hot, is really doing a great service to every man on the campus. If 
it is not directly serving you, tis no fault of theirsnine cases out 
of ten youve not given them an opportunity.
The Y makes their budget according to the number of 
jiledges. Therefore, if pledges are not paid, they miss their budget 
and run short.Pay up your pledges, and give the Y. M. C. A. a square deal!
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, MAY 16
AssembliesM. M. C. C............................... .........11:30, Assembly Hall
College of Fine Arts............................11 80, Arts Theater
College of Industries.........................12:30, 104 Industries
Collogo of Engineering........................11:30, 218 Science
THURSDAY, MAY 17
Band Practice...........................................................7:30, Carnegie Union
Kei-italDepartment of Music..................................8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MAY 18
Recital Department of Music..................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, MAY ID
liceit! -Department of Music..................................8:15, Arts Theater
Track- Marietta vs. Carnegie ........................................................There
THURSDAY, ERI DAY, SATURDAY 
MAY 2, 25; 26Campus Week
CAMPUS WEEK TAGS ON
SALE ALL THIS WEEK
^Continued Prom Pago Ono.) 
aaci 'Union. A tag and ono dollar will 
admit one couple to the dance. The 
east will be three dollars without the 
itagTae musical clubs of Carnegie 
'Tedi Trill present a Musical Box lleat the Carnegie Music Hall, Fri
day afternoon at 2:30. This will be 
as aiovel affair in that the band, Symto purcflidBo four tickets to tho matlphony Orchestra, nnd Mens and 
Womens Glee clubs will all combine 
to give a varied and pleasing concert. 
A tag will admit you to this Review.
The best and most good time had 
by all part of Campus Wook is the 
Mardi Gras Friday night. This is al
ways the gayest and most care-free 
evening of the school year. Every
one is instilled with the spirit of fun. 
One tag is the only necessary pass
wordwithout a taglive dollars.
These tags will entitle the holder
Install Carnegie
Chapter of Acacia
National Masonic Fraternity 
Accepts Square and 
Compass Club
The Square and Compass Frater
nity of Masons at Carnegie Tech was 
installed at Carnegie Chapter of 
Acacia, tho national Masonic college 
fraternity yesterday at tho William 
Penn Hotel. The Installation exer
cises were conducted In the afternoon 
by W. F; Dye, of Penn State College, 
Grand President of the national or
ganization, and the degree work was 
conducted by a team from the Ohio 
State Chapter.
In the evening, a banquet was 
served followed by a period of short 
addresses by tho following: Pro
fessor Charles Arnold, of tho Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, a member of the 
University of Missouri Chapter; 
Charles W. Prlne, Assistant Professor 
at Carnegie Tech, and Chapter Ad
viser; and JoHoph Davis, venerable 
dean of the Carnegie Chapter. Harold 
Obernauer, of this city, a member of 
Yale chapter, was toastmaster.
iS'unday afternoon tho members of 
the chapter entertained their friends 
at a tea and reception in their newlypurchased home, 080 Clyde street.
No MoneyNo Book 
Await Action of Board
MayBorrowFund and Publish 
Song Book This Summer
The Carnegie Song Book, although 
much desired on the campus, will not 
be published this year on account of 
financial difficulties. The Student 
Council, which was to have under
taken the publication of the book now 
finds that the numerous other needs 
of the school have used up the neces
sary twelve hundred dollars.
A new hope is held out, however. 
The student Activities Board has 
some money saved up, which may be 
invested if it is known that the invest
ment is a worthy and paying one. It 
is proposed that the money needed 
for the publication of the song book 
be borrowed from this fund, the book 
published during the summer and 
sold to the students in. the fall, and 
the money returned to the lender.
GOOD PROSPECTS FOR
BASKET BALL NEXT YEAR
(Continued From Page Two.) 
and ability brought the applause of 
the gallery.
Gibson, who captained last years 
team, did exceptionally good work at 
guard and earned more than a guard's 
usual number of points.
Mefort, a plucky yearling with 
ovory promipQ of being a dependable 
man for the center position, along 
with Miller, who left school at the end 
of the first semester, and Ohio New
man who subbed on tho team but had 
to loavo the lloor to concentrate on 
his scholastic wbrk, wore badly missed 
during tho latter part of the season.
In as many games as Midge Mattor 
played, lie demonstrated that he was 
a, strong contender for a forward job, 
Ills size being Ills only handicap. He 
was captain of tho great 1925 Plebe 
team. Donahue, a Froshman, showed 
up so well In tho last few games that 
ho \vaa selected by SQmio judges for 
honorable mention among tho stars of 
the district.
IVlohrman, who held down tho other-; 
guard position with Gibson, displayed 
such a reliable brand of defensive 
playing that he Is looked on as being 
a bright prospect for next year's 
team.
DQsey, who last year made a name 
for himself as a gainer of points, was 
not eligible until after tho end of 
the first semester, but soon found him
self pluylhg a good brand ol basket 
ball at the- center position. When 
Obie Newman again became eligible, 
these two alternated at that position.
At the end of the season, Coach 
Lubic and his wife entertained the 
letter men at a dinner. Those who 
received letters for tho 1922-23 season 
were: Anderson, Roller (Manager),
Gibson, Donohue, Dosey, Mohrmau, 
Matter, and Melort.
nee performance of the show, Satur
day and also two tickets , to the even
ing performance. It is requested that 
all organizations refrain from secur
ing blocks of seats.
All alumni who register may obtain 
their tags from the registrar. Be 
sure and get your tag for without it 
Campus Week comes high. Students 
should obtain their tags as soon as 
possible;
The purpose of the tags is primar
ily to keep outsiders from coming in. 
The deplorable affair of last year may 
be avoided this year by refraining 
from selling tags to outsiders.
ORIENTAL DECORATIONS
TO DISGUISE CAMPUS
(Continued from Page One) 
Yollow and black crepe paper will be 
so liung that it will give the effect 
of a low coiling. The walls are to 
be covorodi with panels ol Chinese 
pattern.
With varied colored lights hanging 
up tho result, will bo mystorlous, 
andi oriental. The Union will also 
bo hard to recognize. The colors 
hero will bo blue and gold and the 
hall is to bo lighted by Japanese lan
terns.
A now feature is being devised for 
(|ho entrance of the Art. Hero a 
great arch will be constructed. This 
will conform with the rest of tho dec
orations in that it will be of oriental 
design. From this arch Japenese lan
terns will be strung, extending all 
over the campus.
Barbei'Want a hair cut? 
FreshmanNo, want all of them 
cut
Barbei'Any particular way? 
FreshmanYes, off.
GYM CONTRACT IS AWARDED
TO CARNEGIE MAN
(Continued From Page One) 
feasible some man prominent in the 
athletic world will be secured for 
the ceremony.
Unfortunately most of the students 
will leave before Commencement Day, 
which occur on Friday, the 15th, but 
aa all preparations are being held 
pending the rapidity of the construc
tion, they may miB nothing in spite 
of their absence.
Contractor Is Carnegie Man.
Mr. Siesel 1 a Science graduate, 
Civil Engineering, '08. He started 
his career as general factotum on the 
Building Bureau during the construc
tion of buildings C and D-a period of 
some eight months.
He next spent a year In Europe 
studying at the Technical High 
School, Charlottenburg, Berlin, and 
then returned to work in the Pitts
burgh Testing Laboratories on build
ing Inspection.
Mr, Siesel now put in two years 
with J. Li. Stewart as an expiditer 
and estimator. From 1914 to 1918 he 
was president of the O. II. Bossart 
Company, Milwaukee, Wis., special
izing in re-inforced concrete, and in 
1918 went into business by himself.
During July, 1922, Mr. Siesel or
ganized the S. M. Siesel Company, 
with home offices in Milwaukee, to 
take over his business. Since then 
he has built the Ford Motor Asselmbling Plant at Milwaukee, five 
buildings of the -Chain Belt Company, 
the Benjamin Franklin Junior High 
School at New Castle, Pa., the Lang
ley High School in Pittsburgh, and 
is now working on the Exchange Na
tional Bank of Pittsburgh, the Apollo 
Steel Company, Apollo Pa., and a 
five-story banking building in Mari
etta, Ohio, the Peoples Banking and 
Trust Company.
Mr. Siesel has now undertaken to 
construct our gym and as a result we 
shall have a real Carnegie gym: 
built with Carnegie money, by a Car
negie graduate and for Carnegie stu
dents!
MARDI GRAS IS BIG FEATURE
OF CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From Page One-)
Wednesday and no doubt, at least in 
olden times, there was much feasting 
in connection with the celebration. 
Street parades with gorgeous floats 
are important featured of the day. 
The affair keeps the city young, from 
becoming pompous, from takin'g itself 
too seriously, from getting Into a rut* 
and further It is a stimulation to both 
young and old. The young people, 
dwelling upon the fantasies of their 
dreams, imagine themselves lifted to 
the realm of princes or Grecian gods 
through the disguise of their cos
tumes. The maid dreams of finding 
her #ay Lothario among maskers 
while tiie young swain has visions of 
meeting his fairy princess while mix
ing with the morrymakers.
From this we can gather that a 
Mardi Gras carnival is something that 
must develop and grow with time and 
this is what must happen to our own 
Mardi Gras of Campus Week. As each 
year rolls round some new idea, some 
new feature might bo added to the af
fair for its improvement. iStome of the 
past carnivals have boon hindered 
through the whims of old Jupiter Pluvius but still the morrymakers .have 
had their whirl. On Friday evening 
of Campus Woek, there should be a 
-celebration worthy to rival that of the 
southern motropolls. Fellow Btudents 
dust off your old costume or put the 
finishing stitches in a new one and 
join tho gay camaradlo just lor an 
evening.
CAMPUS WEEK PLAY
ENTITLED "RABBIT FEET.'
(Continued From Page One) 
will play "Orchid* Davenport, and 
What sho will lend to tho play will be 
as delicate and as valuable as the 
flower which boars her name, (the 
first name). To prove her compe
tence as Orchid, she shyly displayed 
a rabbit foot which sho insists was 
amputated from a cross-eyed rabbit 
that Was caught by a bow-legged, pig
eon-toed nigger in the graveyard by 
the dark of the moon, on the thir
teenth of the month. Is not that suf
ficient evidence?
In the play we will see Tuckaloo, 
Mississippi, during election time, and 
we find, great competition between the 
town swell, Mervin Maxwell, the clas
sy awayaliead bimbo from Memphis, 
and the lazy, shiftless, superstitious 
nigger, Pete Boone. A great festival 
will be staged, in true Southern style, 
a barbecue, a big nigger picnic, and a 
regular time will be portrayed by the 
caste. All the Freshmen of the Drama 
Department will take parts, and the 
leads will be taken by some of the 
members of the Youre Next Com
pany, which toured the campus suc
cessfully this season.
The management also wishes to add 
a few remarks to the statement pre
viously made. In the afternoon no 
student will be able to buy more than 
4 tickets, for the performance is for 
the students and in the evening not 
more than two (2) tickets will be sold 
to any one purchaser. Nommes de 
plume will not enable anyone to get 
more than the allotted number of tick
ets, for the tags will bo punched, 
showing the number of tickets bought. 
In order to do away with any hard 
feeling that might exist between 
those who may buy two bit seats 
and tlioso who may buy dollar soats, 
the management has set a price which 
will bo uniform throughout tho house. 
EACH SEAT IN TIIE HOUSE GOES 
FOR ONE DOLLAR!! Tlitbro will be 
positively no blanks! There are no 
posts to hide behind, and the ladies 
will all remove their hats!
The tickots for the show have ar
rived and will bo placed on sale on 
the campus on Friday, May IS.
Forty-Seven Nite
Studes Gradnate
Five Men to Receive Degrees 
To Have Commencement 
With Day Studes
Forty-seven night students will be\ 
graduated this year at Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, according to an 
announcement giving a list of the 
probable graduates. The night grad
uates will receive their diplomas and 
certificates at the Commencement ex
ercises for the day students to be 
held Friday morning, June 15.
According to the tentative list just 
announced at the Institute, five of the 
night men will be awarded degrees as 
Bachelor of Science. The others will 
receive certificates of proficiency in a 
wide variety of technical courses, 
most of which represent six years 
of study.
The graduates who are expected to 
be awarded degrees are Archibald 
Dodds, Mechanical Engineering; Har
old Greenwald, Electrical Engineer
ing; Vivian Griffin, Mechanical Engi
neering; William Shaw, Mechanical 
Engineering; and Elmer Wimmer, 
Electrical Engineering.
Following is a tentative list of the 
graduates to be given certificates of 
proficiency: College of Fine Arts:
Frank B. Smith, Architecture.
College of Industries: Thomas
Beer, Everett Brake, George E. Breza, 
Albert Fischer, Herbert Floss, Kasuri 
Kapur, Joseph Kopay, George Meyers, 
and Michael Wattay, Mechanical
Course; George Aderhold, Frank McCully, Andrew Ondreyco, and William 
White, Practical Chemistry Course; 
John Bowden, Ralph Bunker, Patrick 
Caine, B. S. Harter, Carl Komm, Ed
ward Langhorst, Francis McCauley, 
Nathan McAloney, William Schlossnagel, and Avery Vice, Electric Wir
ing Course; Clyde Prosser, and Albert 
Thompson, Structural Drafting 
Course; Emile Rank, Machine Prac
tice Course; Peter Schenone, Sheet 
Metal Course.
College of Engineering: Ralph Bost, 
Lloyd Busch, and Lawrence Pitzer, 
Chemical Engineering Course; Her
bert Cooley and Philip Scliane, Met
allurgical Engineering Course; Con
stantine Couy, Mack E. Haworth, Karl 
Kortland, Lee B. O'Neal, Electrical 
Engineering Course; William Hagel, 
Norman Morrell, Thomas Paiffer, Me
chanical Engineering Course; Her
bert W. Peth, and Lawrence Schroth, 
Civil Engineering Course.
Chemical Engineers 
Win Contest Prizes
A. H. Prey, R. S. Briggs D. M. 
Gray, Successful Entrants
Carnegie Tech students of Chemi
cal Engineering were awarded the 
first three'prizes in a contest recent
ly conducted by Chemical and Metal
lurgical Engineering Magazine of New 
York City, two of the students being 
Pittsburghers. The first prize was 
awarded to A. I-I. Prey of Arcade, N. 
Y., and second and third awards went 
to ,Raymond S. Briggs of 453 Vnndalia 
street and Daniel M. Gray of 1342 
Singer place, Willdnsburg.
The competition Avas a Flow Sheet 
Contest involving various chemical 
plants. The particular problem as
signed to Carnegie Tech was a by
product coico plant. Students from 
the entire country were invited to 
compete, and a letter received by Dr. 
J. II. James, head of the Chemical 
Engineering Department at Carnegie, 
highly commended the work present
ed by the local students.
Famous Critic to Discuss 
The Moscow Art Theater
A lecture will be given next Wed
nesday afternoon by Oliver M. Sayler 
of New York, who will discuss The 
Moscow Art Theater. It will be 
rgiven at 4 p. m. in the Arts Theater, 
and the public is invited to attend, 
without ticket requirements.
Mr. Sayler has been prominently 
identified with the Russian theater 
movement in tlis country, and has 
served as special representative of 
the Moscow Art Theater in the Unit
ed States. He is the author of The 
Russian Theater in the Revolution, 
and is also the New York dramatic 
correspondent of the Boston Trans
cript.
WHO. OF THESE THREE,
WILL BE QUEEN?
Campus Week in a Nutshell
WEDNESDAY
9:00 P.M.Inter-Fraternity Migrating Dances.
THURSDAY
A.M.Vaudeville Show....................Carnegie Music Hall
M. Lunch on the Campus.........................................
...........................Margaret Morrison Cafeteria
P.M.Qualification and the Call!...............Carnegie Bowl
P.M.Kaper of the Kilties..........................Carnegie Bowl
P.M.Girls Track Meet...............................Carnegie Bowl
P.M.Alumni-Varsity Tennis Match Carnegie Courts
P.M.Coronation of the Queen of Carnegie.............
...................................+..........Open Air Theater
P.M.Crowning of King Tut of the Mardi Gras
.Design School Lawni
10:30 
12:00
1:30
2:30
3:00
3:30
7:30
8:30
9:00
2:00
P.M.Coronation Dance.........Laboratory, Union, Foyer
A.M.Hit the Hay!___.....................................At Home
FRIDAY
9:00 A.M.Girls Sweepstakes.........*...."Woodlawn Speedway
10:00 A.M.Inter-Fraternity Sweepstakes .........................
.................................Carnegie Tech Speedway
12:00M. Lunch on the Campus........................................
...........................Margaret Morrison Cafeteria
1:30 P.M.Girls  Championship Tennis Matches...............
................................+.............. Carnegie Courts
2:30 P.M.Music Box Bevue............,.....Carnegie Music Hall
5:30 P.M.Girls Banquet.............................Carnegie Commons
9:00 P.M.Mardi Gras...............  Laboratory, Union, Foyer
Wheny git
tired Call a Taxi...................................n beat it fer home
SATURDAY
10:00 A.M.Allegheny-Varsity Tennis Matches...................
......................................+........ Carnegie Courts
12:00M. Lunch on the Campus.........................................
..........................Margaret Morrison Cafeteria
12:00 M. Alumni Luncheon................. ........Fort Pitt Hotel
2:00 P.M.Garden Party and Bridge..........Mellon Hall Lawn
3:00P.M.ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
3:30 P.M.Greek Olympic...................................Carnegie Bowl
8:30 P.M.ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
By this time youll feel like recuperating, so, 
use your own judgment.
A D I O S
Industries and Arts 
Hold Final Elections
Science to Elect Senior S, C. 
Representative
Professor Thomas W. Stevens, head 
of the Drama Department, is the 
author of a pageant to be produced at 
Ypsilanti City, Michigan, from July 
1 to 4. This event will be to cele
brate the one 1'iUndredtli anniversary 
of the founding of the first settlement 
in Washtenaw county.
(Continued From Page One) 
stand high in their classes, and have 
been active around school.
The voting in this primary election, 
while hot, wras honest to a painful de
gree. Girls appointed for the purpose 
were stationed at the different polls 
and crossed off the names of each stu
dent as he or she voted. It is re
ported that several unscrupulous per
sons attempted to load the box by 
passing in more than  their allotted 
number of ballots, but few, if any, 
put anything over on the lynx eyed 
guardians of the purity of the elec
tion.
The final election for the Queen will 
be held today and the girl receiving 
the highest number of votes will be 
the Queen, regardless of any friends 
sho may have on the election board.
Each of tho three girls afe going 
to need every single vote they can 
muster in order to have a chance to
day, and they call every loyal sup
porter to do his bit by voting.
Remember! Today at 11:30 you 
have your last chance to vote for your 
Queen. Pick out the girl who you 
think will make the best queen and 
vote for her.
Remember the candidates: Ruth
Barton, Peg Hannon, and Eleanor 
Schomberg.
And just TRY to put something past 
the' election boards.
The election results in the College 
of Industries which were held last 
week are as follows:
Industries Assembly Officers.
President, Frank Gore.
Vice President, Al Schillinger.
Treasurer, M. D. Kallfelz.
Secretary, Joe Christoff.
Senior Class Officers.
President, S. E. Dyke.
Vice President, P. Gore.
Secretary, G. Dyke.
Treasurer, W. Buckley, H. Dosey.
Junior Class Officers.
President, A. S. Andrews.
Vice Presidents, A. W. Mellor, M. D. 
Kallfelz. /
Secretary, Clifford Zinn.
Treasurer, T. Donahue, K. Kornman.
Junior Class Officers.
Thistle Representatives
M. D. Kallfelz.
George Carl.
Clifford Zinn.
Sophomore Class Officers.
President, D. V. Beede.
Vice President, J E Christoff
Secretary, J. Gill.
Treasurer, G.. H. Lamb.
Thistle, Charles Craw.
The Junior class re-elections in the 
College of Pine Arts are as follows:
Vico President, Dorothy Diamond;
Treasurer 'Student Body, V. S. 
Mollenauer.
Senate, Phil Thorne.
In the College of Science and En
gineering, election will be held this 
week for Senior Representative on 
the Student Council. Those nominat
ed are, G. R. Cooley, P. C. Schucker, 
S. E. Beltner and W. C. Pencil.
mi.
GIRLS GLEE CLUB
ELECTS OFFICERS
The Girls Glee Club, at a meeting 
last week elected officers. The re
sults of these elections were:
President, Lpuise Porter; vice pres
ident, Edith Schultis; manager, Gretclien Issel; assistant manager, Louise 
Benson; librarian, Josephine Soisson; 
assistant librarian, Helen Garden.
These officers have many new ideas 
for the Glee Club and are making 
plans for a season next year that is 
to rival any previous year.
OAXACA
$7
A dash of April, a bit of 
May, a breth of June ~ A 
New Spring Oxford with 
life and youth in every 
line - Severly simpl in 
pattern and moderately 
wide in last ~ In Golden 
Brown, Ruddy Brown or 
Black Calfskin < 
ON DISPLAY MAY 22 
AT THE 
FRATERNITIES
merCs .Shoes
Stores in NcwYorkJBrpoklyn.Newark 
Phila.~ Address for Mail Order* ill Duane s trcet-NctvYork City
TRAVEL MADE EASY
Courteous clerks who 
know every lane of travel 
the world over are at 
your disposal at our 
Steamship Deaprtment.
Select your destination 
and we will do everything 
in our power to help you 
reach It In comfort and 
safety.
Damon
What was the name of that pencil 
Professor Wlllia.ms was recom
mending this morning?"
Pythias
Eldoradomy boy. Eldorado! 
Just think of a fnblcd land of 
ease and happinesswhere no one 
Hunkswhere pencils are the magic 
sticks of achievement. Then you 
can never forget it."
LINES FROM
FAMOUS LIBERALS
A mans religion is his work
ing hypothesis of life.
-David Starr Jordan.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor.
i| Bellefield Presbyterian H Church
j* Fifth and Bellefield Avenues.
 REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
tf D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .........................10:00 A.M. :
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ...................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOMEI TECH STUDENTS
*Flowers for Every Occasion |
Gift Boxes ***
Corsages
Plants y
Decorations X
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the
quality and service. 1*1
Ao W. Smith Company 
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET ?m. ~ ruur,u rtrt-7 VPhone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
Carnegie Netmen 
Split Even on Trip
Michigan Men Win But Are 
Sorely Pressed For 
Several Sets
Michigan netmen triumphed over 
the fast-going Carnegie Tech tennis 
team in a 5 to 1 well played and 
-warmly contested match at Ann Ar
bor, Mich., last Thursday.
Four Plaid racquet wielders and 
Manager Kreisle left Pittsburgh last 
Wednesday evening on the western 
trip which was to include matches 
with University of Michigan, Oberlin, 
and Northwestern.
After driving three of the Michigan 
matches to a three match limit, the 
Plaid netmen were confident that they 
could push the Ann Arbor boys just 
.a little better and possibly tie the 
score. Summary:
Schwartz, Carnegie lost to Merkel, 
Michigan, 6-4, 6-2.
O'Connor, Carnegie, defeated Rorick, Michigan, 7-5, 6-3, 6-3.
Keil, Carnegie, lost to Kline, Mich
igan, 9-7, 6-2.
Hausauer, Carnegie, lost to Jerome, 
Michigan, 3-6, 7-5, 6-0.
Schwartz and Marshall, Carnegie, 
lost to Merkel and Rorick, Michigan, 
6-2, 7-5.
OConnor and Hausauer, Carnegie, 
lost to Kline and Semon, Michigan, 
1-6, 6-4, 6-2.
Carnegie 4, W. R. 0.
The match with Oberlin was post
poned on account of rain, so the 
team moved on to Cleveland on Sat
urday where they met and conquered 
the Western Reserve tennis team in 
lour straight matches.
Owing to the clay courts resem
bling an appearance of a lake. The 
matches were played on indoor as
phalt courts which lacked the space 
for the two doubles matches.
Summary:
Schwartz, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Rees, Western Reserve, 8-6, 6-4.
OConnor, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Rudolph, Western Reserve, 6-2, 6-3.
Keil, Carnegie Tech, defeated, EnInterest in Sports is Buckeyes Win Dual 
Shown By M. M Girls Meet With Plaid
Indoor and Outdoor Athletes 
Compete For Points
During the present year, the girls 
have made great strides in their 
plans for mass athletics. It has been 
the policy to get as many girls active
ly participating in the various sports 
as possible, and with that idea in 
mind, teams and contests have been 
arranged in practically every branch 
adaptable to girls. In order to fur
ther encourage the girls in their par
ticipation, the point system with its 
final goal, a Margaret Morrison "C," 
was inaugurated last year, and this 
year has worked out with great suc
cess.
In looking back over the year a 
great amount of credit must necessa
rily go to Miss Bowman, physical ed
ucation director, for it was through 
her untiring and enthusiastic devotion 
to the cause that such great strides 
were taken. Likewise much credit is 
due to the officers and chairmen of 
the various sports.
Special reference should be made 
to Helen Macrum, head of basket ball, 
for this sport reached greater heights 
under her guidance than ever before. 
Aside from the varsity basket ball 
team, leagues were formed between 
the girls dormitories and commuters, 
as well as inter-class.
At present time Cubbie Lyons has 
her hands full with the two girls 
tournaments, singles and doubles. The 
doubles have forty-six entries, while 
nearly sixty girls have signed up for 
the singles.
Plans are advancing fast for the 
annual inter-class swimming meet to 
be held May 21. Eleanore Craver is 
in- charge of this branch, and from 
the interest shown, ought to furnish 
from real competition.
gleliart, Western Reserve, 6-2, 6-3.
Hauserer, Carnegie Tech, defeated 
Webster, Western Reserve, 6-3, 6-2.
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
The Symbol of 
Real Quality 
niiiiiiiiniiii[iniiii!!ii![iinnii!i!i!iiiuiimi!iiiinnni!iDiii[IlllllDIE
Downpour of Rain Hinders 
Work of Athletes. Final 
Score 92 to 43 [
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
Romping around on a mirky track 
and in a blinding rain last Saturday 
afternoon, the track athletes of Ohio 
State University easily ran a.wa.y with 
the dual meet on the Carnegie field. 
The final score was 92-43 in favor of 
the Buckeyes.
Carnegie took out three first places, 
the two-mile run, the discus and the 
broad jump. Ohio State won the re
maining twelve firsts, including all 
the dashes. In the 100-yard event 
the Red and White men captured all 
three places, and repeated the per
formance in the 220-yard dash.
In spite of the poor weather condi
tions, several good marks were regis
tered. Dylceman of Carnegie easily 
distanced the field in the two-mile 
run. He led the entire distance and 
at the finish made a final sprint 
which left his nearest competitor far 
behind. Schillinger beat out his Ohio 
opponent in the discus throw and 
Pittman won the broad jump by a 
narrow margin. His leap was 20 feet 
6 inches.
Snyder was the outstanding star 
for the Buckeyes. He finished sev
eral yards ahead of Robertson in the 
high hurdles and had little trouble in 
winning the high jump. He also was 
second in the broad jump. Szold was 
beat out of what looked like a victory 
in the 440. He had led most of the 
distance, but was passed at the turn 
by Everett of Ohio State. Szold was 
the only Plaid runner to place in any 
of the short distances. The summa
ries:
110>-yard dashWon by Powellson, 
Ohio State; Connell, Ohio State, sec
ond; Clemens, Ohio State, third. 
Time10:10.
Mile runWon by Kilpatrick, Ohio 
State; Ferral, Carnegie Tech, second; 
Bright, Carnegie Tech, third. Time 
4:4-5.
440-yard dashWon by Everett, 
Ohio State; Szold, Carnegie Tech, 
second; Sutton, Ohio State, third. 
Time53:4-5.
High hurdlesWon by 
Ohio State; Robertson,
Tech, second: Pittman,
Tech, third. Time17:8.
220-yard dashWon by Connell, 
Ohio State; Powellson, Ohio State, 
second; Clemens, Ohio State, third. 
Time23:6.
Half mileWon by ICreider, Ohio 
State; Ross, Ohio State, second: Far
rell, Carnegie Tech, third. Time 
2:02 1-10.
220 low hurdlesWon by Green, 
Ohio State; Snyder, Ohio State, sec
ond; Crago, Carnegie Tech, third. 
Time28:3.
Two-mile runWon by Dylcoinan, 
Carnegie Tech; Russell, Ohio State, 
second; Custer, Ohio State, third. 
Time10:19 6-10.
Pole vaultWon by Rouch, Ohio 
State; Smith, Carnegie Tech, and 
Bascom, Ohio State, tied for second.
ShotputWon by Murphy, Ohio 
State; Schillinger, Carnegie Tech, 
second; Sprinkle, Carnegie Tech, 
third. Distance36 feet 3% inches.
High jumpWon by Snyder, Ohio 
State; Luty, Carnegie Tech, second; 
Helwig, Ohio State, third. Height5 
feet 8 inches.
Discus throwWon by Schillinger, 
Carnegie Tech; Murphy, Ohio State, 
second; PetcofT, Ohio State, third. 
Distance116 feet 3 inches.
Javelin throwWon by Petcoff, 
Ohio State; Kaplow, Ohio State, sec
ond; Bastain, Carnegie Tech, third. 
Distance132 feet 8 inches.
Broad jumpWon by Pittman, Car
negie Tech; Snyder, Ohio State, sec
ond; Robertson, Carnegie Tech, third. 
Distance20 feet 6 inches.
Hammer throwWon by Murphy, 
Ohio State; Sprinkle, Carnegie Tech, 
second; Croft, Ohio State, third. Dis
tance144 feet.
REVIEW OF REVIEWS
It is the purpose of this issue to give tho alumni some idea of what their 
Alma Mater has been doing throughout the past year and to revive their 
spirit for the not far distant Campus Woek. As a large part of this attempt 
to revive the Old Tech Spirit among tho grads, we are presenting a series 
of reviews of Plaid athletics for tho seasons which are still fresh in tho minds of tha students.
Carnegie Tech has beeu making rapid strides in the realm of athletics 
during the past few years and this year has beeu as eventful as any of them. 
Beginning last fall, the football squad carried tho Tartan colors to more 
than one victory and although forced to bow in defeat in some instances, al
ways left their opponents with the feeling that they had had a real game. 
They stepped in Class A football and teams of this class found they had a 
new and dangerous contender with which to reckon. Although the har
riers did not do quite as well as they did the previous season, nevertheless 
they were a hard outfit to beat. Dykeman, tho star of the team, made a 
great name for himself in the East, through his victory at Syracuse and his 
showing in the Intercollegiates.
The basket ball season was probably the least successful. Tho Plaid 
cagers were able to register but six victories during the season. However, 
one feature was the toppling of the Grove City Crimsons, who had a long 
string of victories tucked under their belts up to the time they met the Tar
tans. Lubic did well with the material at his command and we welcome him back next year.
The tenuis and track teams are right in the midst of their activities 
and returning alumni will have tho opportunity of seeing at least the racqueteers in action next week. Both squads give promise of being represen
tative of Carnegie Tech. The latter acomplished the feat of winning at the Penn Relays two years in succession.
Perhaps our Freshman teams have made even a better showing than 
the Varsity. At least they turned in the more victories.
We can lay a large part of the blame for not presenting a greater 
proportion of successes to the factor of ineligibility. The coaches are always 
bucking up against the difficulty that as soon as'they have a good man de
veloped lie will in the majority of cases become one of tho numerous ineligibles. As we see it Carnegie Tech will never become famous athletically 
under present conditions. But on tho other hand, scholastic ability should be paramount and athletics a secondary matter.
Ohio State repeated their score of last year in trimming Coach Beelers 
track squad in the rain last Saturday. We were surprised to see our cinder 
men do as well as they did considering that team of inoligibles. Mefort 
made a pretty good man to return the javelin-back to the mark
The tennis men lost their first match of the season when the Wolverines 
took them over at Ann Arbor. Some of the matches wero evidently hard 
rougnt and we hope that a inensure of revenge may be taken this week.
We heard some inside dope about the new gym. Tho rumor if it is 
t w ri'i, Pretty g,0cl- 41[oW(rver- ^ is not supposed to bo out.  Perhaps they think they are going to spring a surprise on us. it cant be done
Snyder,
Carnegie
Carnegie
SCHENLEY TAILORING CO.
Under new management. La
dies and Mens Suits made to or
der. Altering, cleaning and press
ing.
420 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Goods called for and delivered.
Schenley 1538.
hatevcr your "Choice of a Career, college training has increased 
your economic value, and 'whatever business or profession you enter, 
adequate life insurance is a proper selfappraisal of your powers in that 
direction.
The traditions, practices, and financial strength of the JOHN HANCOCK 
Mutual Life Insurance Company are such that the college man can take 
peculiar pride in having a John Hancock policy on his life. It is a dis
tinct asset from the start. It will pay you to buy it; and later on, should 
you think of joining this company, it will also pay you to sell it. Our 
representatives 'will tell you just how, and can assist you in selecting both 
your career and your insurance.
oAddress cAgency Department
Sixty-one Years in Business
Largest Fiduciary Institution 
in New England
PAGE TWOHCRWNE IDSYRW,M1
US WUEKUTG OCEECNLDEYKKE
Baseball Season of Last 
Year By Critic of Today
There has been much expression of 
regret because of tho fact that Car
negie Tech li,as no baseball team this 
year. As everyone knows, the reason 
for not having one this year was be
cause there was no place for tho team 
to practice or play. Last year tho 
squad practiced on the Cut; Tho re
sult was that tho Campus was cut up 
considerably and the men on tho team 
had to bo developed Into mountain 
climbers and hurdlers. Thus it was 
decided that rather than going 
through that again It would bo advlsablo to drop baseball for this year. 
However, next year there will bo a 
team. It has been out from a vory 
reliable sourco that Carnegio Tech 
will have a baseball team next, yoar 
even if they have to, practice In tho 
streets of Soho.
Everyone knows of Carnegio Techs 
baseball tennis of tho past whon Honus Wagner was at the helm. Iionua 
was a sterling coach and tho toaniH 
which he turned out wero always a 
credit to tho school. Last soason he 
could not be with us any longer. Duo 
to advancement in years and personal 
business ho was unable to continuo in 
tho coaching ganio. His loss was 
deeply felt by tho whole ritudent body.
Mr. Kirkpatrick stoppod into Ilonus 
Wagners shoos last yoar and in splto 
of tho groat number of handicaps ho 
succeeded In moulding into form, a 
fast playing organization. Ho per
formed his work vory successfully and 
desorved\ a great amount of credit.
Captain Durkin piloted tho teuin in 
a very capable mannor and proved to 
be a worthy successor to Captain Do
herty. The pitching staff was excep
tional and the efforts of McCaw, War
rick, Smith, Cappe and Weiss won 
general applause. A1 Irwin received 
the moundsmens deliveries in big 
league style, catching many of the op
ponents foul tips which came into Ills 
territory. The infield in general 
played in great style, backing each 
other up as if they had played to
gether ni2ny seasons. The outfield
ers had many things to contend with 
in the condition of the home field but 
were always to be depended upon to 
play stellar ball.
Bert Munhall did his share by fixing 
up the boys who were hurt by falling 
into ditches and running into the trees 
in the outfield. However after the 
Tartans became accustomed to these 
obstacles they had the advantage over 
their opponents and were nearly un
conquerable on their own field.
Baseball for next year is a certain
ty. The great problem of a field will 
have to be solved of course but solu
tions to harder problems than that 
have been solved here at Carnegie 
Tech.
LUBIC ELECTED COACH 
OF 1924 BASKET BALL
Tho Athletic Council held its rogular meeting Wednesday evening, May 
9, with the following mombors pres* 
ont: Pros. Ovorond, D. A. Casoy, 
Brumbaugh, Greenlaw. Dr. Marks, 
Prof. Loeds, Doan Tarboll, and A1 Ir
win.
Many important business transac
tions wero acted upon and passed by 
tho Council, among those was the 
oloctlon of Bon Lubic as varsity coach 
of basket ball for next year. Lubic 
showed his ability as a coach tho past 
season when ho developed a fast quin
tet at Carnegio Tech which could glvo 
any toam a hard battlo.
R. H. ITumbort was olocted Plobo 
basket ball manager for noxt yoar. 
Humbert Is a mombor of Tliota XI 
Fraternity, tho Dragon Society, and 
is the president of tho Intor-fratornlty 
Council. Ho is a vory able man for 
this position and will make an oxcollont manager.
Tartan Track Men 
Won Many Events
Review of Records Shows 
Plaid Men Superior 
to Opponents
Last Campus Week concluded what 
was, in many ways, one of the most 
successful track Beasons that tho 
Plaid has enjoyed. Tho summary of 
the campaign shows that tho Skibos 
annexed first place in the Technical 
School relays at the Penn Relay Car
nival, won three dual moots, lost one; 
and wero winners of the Tri-State 
Track Championship.
Second honors wore carried away 
in the Allegheny Mountain A. A. U. 
championship indoor meet held March 
.11 at the East End Auditorium. Pitt 
won first honors nt this meet. The 
principal scorors for tho Plaid wero 
John Kelley, Lockwood, Dykeman, 
and Szold.
Soon after this, tho Skibos began to 
get in trim for tho outdoor soason. 
Larry Stults was captain of the squad, 
and was a consistent performer at the 
pole vault, topping the bar around 11 
feet. Hall Iddings, who had coachod 
tho basket ball team, remained to tu
tor the cinder path artists.
With hard training, the relay team 
was finally pronounced ready to go to 
the Penn Relays, and tho clibsen few 
embarked for Philadelphia. Carnegie 
was entered in the Technical Schools 
class, along with Brooklyn Poly, Stev
ens Institute, and other big tochlcal 
colleges. Running fifth .from the polo, 
tho Tartans led tho field nearly the 
wliolo distance, finishing woll ahead 
of Rensselaer Polyteohnic Institute. 
Northeastern College of Boston took 
third plaoo. Tho tirno was 3:32.
The runners for Carnegie were 
Lockwood, Garo, Brumbaugh and 
Szold, running in tho order named. 
This victory put tho Tartans on top 
among the technical schools as far 
as track is concerned. Kolloy won Ills 
heat in tho 100-yard dash, but in the 
finals dropped behind after boing ono
of the three loadors during the first 
50 yards.
On May 6, Marietta was conquered 
in a dual meet on Schenley Oval. The 
Skibos accumulated 125 points whiletho Ohio boys were gathering 14. 
Lack of competition and heavy track 
made tho time of many of the events 
rather slow.
The following Friday witnessed the 
only dofoat suffored by the Plaid in a 
dual moot. Ohio Stato was mot at 
Columbus and proved beyond a doubt 
that she had tho bettor toam. The 
Tartans wore soundly beaten by tho 
score of S6-49, but roportod a good 
time and the best of treatniout at tho 
Ohio institution.
The Mount Union runnors wero tho 
next to fall before the speedy Scotch. 
On May 17 they wero defeated on 
Schenley Oval by the one-sided score 
of 105 to 21.
As a final curtain to the athletic 
events of Campus Week, Carnegie de
feated West Virginia University in a 
dual track and field moot on tho 
iSchenloy Oval, May 27. The Skibos 
wero supreme in the track events, but 
tho West Virginia squad had the odge 
in tho field numbers. IloweVer, this 
advantage was not sufficient to keep 
tho Tartans from winning by the 
score of 91 & to 43%.
It is interesting to note that Jimmy 
Robertson won the annual Pontathlon 
for the second time last year. Pitt
man was second and Szold third.
It is also worthy of noto that three 
school records loll during tho 1922 
season. In the Ohio State meet, J. M. 
IColly sot tho mark in the 220 at 21 3-5 
seconds. In tho same meet, Dykeman 
lowered the time in the mile to 4 min. 
30 1-5 seconds. In the Marietta dual, 
Blssol hurled the javelin 167 foet, es
tablishing the record f^r that event.
Tho letter men last yoar were J. M. 
Kelley, Lockwood, Robertson, Smith, 
Gare, Dykeman, Miller, Schillinger, 
Captain Stults, Sprinkle, Kalablch, 
Arnold, Szold, Captain-Elect Brum
baugh, and Manager By lor.
Students not equipped with a leath
er brief case, a good fountain pen, 
Eversharp Pencil, bill fold, and at 
least one piece of Tech jewelry 
should visit tho Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop In Jenkins Arcade.
Track Team Takes Trip
To Marietta Saturday
Noxt Saturday, tho mombors of tho 
Plaid track toam will pack up tholr 
troubles and a fow plocos of equip
ment and Journey to tho town of Ma
rietta, Ohio, to compoto against tho 
runnors of Marietta Collogo In a dual 
moot.
Marietta should prove oasy for tho 
Skibos, judging by past performance. 
In tho first dual moot of tho season 
last year, Carnoglo had littlo diffi
culty in winning by a large score from 
tho Ohio boys. The lattor woro over
whelmed by the count of 125 to 14.
Reports from down the river indi
cate that Marietta has a greatly im
proved team this year, and with the 
PlaUl aggregation suffering from In
juries and' scholastic handicaps', 
something resembling real competi
tion may result. According to Coach 
Beeler, all the regular track and field 
events will be run, and practically the 
same team that ran against the Ohio 
State speedsters will be sent to Ma
rietta.
The remaining meet on the sched
ule is the Pitt Inter-Collegiate. The 
Navy meet, originally scheduled for 
Campus Week, has been definitely 
cancelled.
Tht C/jJcai'.o Temple, 
Chiamo, Illinois
IIOLADIRD & UOCHli. 
Ardmcus
Drawn by BDR, lcrrlssimp
!IlsIjj 11 |v,
 ; li
7 L5 i ;
''i!; !slBils
"Building
a PiQure
T-TP.RE the arcliitcccs envisioned n plcjurc, rmw the modern oflicc buildinc in terms of the fifcat art of the Middle Aesmid (he 
rc.Milt is n demonstration that the utilitarian structure, the modern oflicc 
huildiiiK .of commerce may be as picturesque as it is practical. Vision, 
imagination, courage and practical Ingenuity in stylistic adaptation 
have enabled the architects of this country to astonish the world with 
their achievements of today and their promise of tomorrow.
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill and organiza
tion, v/ill prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Piincipal Cities of the World
Would You Like 
 to Fialke $500
During Summer Vacation?
Tea Dance Will Be Given 
In Union For Seniors Only
The class of 1923 will hold its first 
Four-School tea dance tomorrow aft
ernoon at 4:30 oclock in the Union. 
This dance is closed to the Seniors of 
the four schools and the committee 
has prepared for the large number of 
Seniors that always attend these 
dances.
Bruce Powrlo, chairman of tho com
mittee in charge of this dance, has 
secured tho Colleglato Imps to fur
nish the music. Tho only require
ment for admission is that tho students 
be Seniors and every ono in tho Se
nior class aro urged to attend this 
dance.
ENGINEERS ARE GUESTS AT
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS SAT.
The members of the Engineers So
ciety of Western Pennsylvania were 
the guests last Saturday night of the 
College of Fine Arts. The feature
of the entertainment was the presen
tation. of Red Turf and Turn of 
the Road, two short plays written by 
Rutherford Mayne, and produced by 
students in the Drama Department.
Both plays were produced under 
the direction of Sara Floyd, a (Senior 
student, who was assisted in the pre
liminary plans for their production by 
Whitford Kane, a member of the 
cast of R. U. R. which was shown 
in Pittsburgh several weeks ago.
1 STRAW HATS I
:j; BONARPHELPS X
$ Best under the sun :j: 
MALLORY | 
| ACCOR |
| SCHENLEY |
1 DAVIES & HUGHES \
j- OAKLANDS MENS STORE X
X 3615 FORBES STREET
*l| Next to Strand Theater !*
S OPEN EVENINGS t
An unuHual opportunity 
is offered to collegc men 
and women to earn 
enough money during 
the coming Bummer 
vacation topaynextyears 
tuition and expenses.
Write Today for PartScuBars
It will surprise you to learn how 
easily a substantial sum of money 
can be earned by selling the Premier 
Knife and Scissors Sharpener right 
inyourownhometownorcity. Every 
housewife wants one the minute she 
sees itbecause it is such an im
provement over the old-fashioned whetstone. Just a stroke or 
two of the Premier Sharpener on any knife or scissors blade 
produces a keen-cutting edge instantly. Written guarantee 
makes it easy to sell. Write nt once for complete information or end 50c for ample, stating what territory you wish us to reserve for you. 
PAGETGA WOOOH CRHN IDS Y ,M16 9AM23 FRieGrMA3N cG6ART6N WTanH
fDo You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by correspondence. Inquire 
how credita earned may be applied on present college program.
Stye Ittittiwitij of (Eiiiragn
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
^
0101020000020202000002000200020202000102000201485353230000020101019102000101000202020200020100010201

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1923
*w'\ t
M !
j P 
Y 'y
. \ m
BCcI
PICTORIAL REVIEW
Bits of Color From the Tartan Plaid the Past Year as Seen by the Camera
j POVERTY DAY WINNERS
Who were exempted from Plebe Regulations for the remainder of the year. Included among the best were Mar
garet Morrison, Science, Arts and Industries Plebes. Several hundred Plebes joined in the parade following the 
picking of best costumes.
THE CARNEGIE CHAPTER OF ACACIA 
Masonic Fraternity, formerly the Square and Compass Club. Installation 
ceremonies were held on Saturday, May 12, and open house at the new home 
of the organization on Clyde street on Sunday, May 13.
H. DYKEMAN
JIMMIE ROBERTSONof the Cross-Country team who will
attempt to lead Carnegie's harrloro to , , . . .,,
another A. M. A. champlonohlp In the 'tc,lar qrt.rbaok and gridiron capfall. tain for the 1923 season.
BEN LUBIC 
former Pitt star, who handled the 
1923 basket ball team of the Plaid.
OLD AND NEW
COUNCIL HEADS
RATED AS BEST PLEBE BASKET BALL TEAMTHE CARNEGIE TECH COACHING STAFF
PAUL BEELER 
coach of last years Plebe football 
team, basket ball team and now en
gaged in turning out a representative 
Carnegie track squad.
under the coaching of Paul Beeler was numbered as one of the best Plebe outfits turned out In the history of 
athletics at Carnegie Tech. They will furnish some promising material for the 1924 varsity team.
ALLEGHENY ASSOCIATION CHAMPIONS
THOMAS N. GRIGGS 
recently elected President of the Stu
dent Council. He is also the new Y. 
M. C. A. cabinet president.
A BIG KIDwhich captured the Allegheny Mountain Association championship trophy In the fall of 1922, captained by B. N.
Greenlaw. *
KAPERS OFARTS BALL
DR. MILLIAM L. MARKS 
line coach, In charge of tho rcoent 
spring football practice and coach for 
tho team In tho fall.
H. O. SPRINKLE 
"CHUCK GARLAND Senior In tho Collogo of Engineering,
nationally reputed tennis plnyer and who will pilot tho Froohmon grlddoni 
ooaoh of this season's Plaid not men. of tho coming nonoon.
CARNEGIE CHAPTER OF ACACIA
CHESTER BRUMBAUGH 
crack quartor-miler and captain of 
this season's cinder-path men.
CHARLES F. BOWERS 
retiring President of the Student 
Council, who will graduate from the 
 College of Fine Arts next month.
AL IRWIN 
assistant football coach and In chargo 
of Athletic Office during absence of 
Graduate Manager Haaran.
SKIBO ATHLETIC CAPTAINS
- O O O \_ PSNiJ x*
WAITING FOR THE GYM 
is no longer a pastime but an 
Institution.
former football captain and captainelect of 1924 basket ball team.
A UNIQUE AFFAIR 
seen at the Poverty Day exercises in 
the College of Science and 
__________________Engineering.
A KAPERS AT KARNAK
scene in the Little Theater on the occasion of the Annual Ball of the College of Fine Arts brought King Tut cos
tumes of all designs and portrayed the students and faculty of Arts amid the pyramids of Egypt.
JIMMIE ANDERSON

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 16, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
SKIBO PIG-SKIN 
CHASERS RATED 
HIGH IN EAST
Carnegie Suffers But Three 
Defeats in Nine Starts 
Moral Victory Over W. and 
J. is High Light of Season
CHEER LEADERS DO NOBLE 
WORK WITH HOPE OF
SUITABLE RECOGNITION
ROBERTSON LUMINARY
Football was introduced at Car
negie Tech sixteen years ago, when 
Pitt, W. & J., and WL Va. swamped 
her under by large scores, while the 
preparatory schools, Kiski and Shadyside.. were her closest rivals.
Through the intervening years, she 
has steadily grown out of her infancy 
until today Carnegie alumni are proud 
of the fact that her Alma Mater 
places on the gridiron, a football team 
that has earned its way and prom
ises to hold its place among class A 
of the most popular major sports.
The 1922 season was not the most 
successful from the standpoint of 
games won, for it closed with five vic
tories, one tie, and three defeats.
As during past seasons around the 
first of (September each year, the 
many candidates began training at 
Camp Louise Carnegie, a peaceful 
spot along the Allegheny River. Some 
fifty lads answered the roll at the 
camp during the month before the 
initial game. Coach Steffen and As
sistant Coach Wadell, had every rea
son to anticipate a bright season, but 
 they preferred to let the results of 
the games tell the story of the inten
sive training.
The schedule for the Skibo warriors 
opened on September 23, with a 54-0 
victory over Waynesburg College. 
Breaking out in new crimson jerseys, 
the Scotch lads displayed a style of 
grid work most hopeful for the out
come of the nine remaining games. 
Captain Anderson began early to 
prove his worth as leader of the pow
erful Tartan machine by supplement
ing brain work with a skillful toe in 
punting.
On September 30, the boys from 
Smoky City tread on the Bulldog's 
playground at New Haven, Conn., and 
came very near reducing the prestige 
of Old Eli in one of th^ hardest 
fought games in the Yale bowl last 
year.
Fumbling was again costly to the 
Plaid in their third game. Geneva 
College with a strong offensive twice 
threatened the Tartan goal line after 
having scored on a 60-yard run from 
a fumble. With Brumbaugh and Rob 
erison hitting the line and ends for 
>3rge gains, the score reached a safe 
.siargin of 27-6.
On October 14 the Carnegie students 
and alumni journeyed to Washington 
to see their team do justice towards 
upsetting the defeat of the previous 
year. Until the last few minutes of 
- play, the Presidents were forced to 
hold the cipher end of a 7-0 score 
made possible by Lambs repeated 
charges through the W. & J. line, and 
Potters trick end runs, while Zelt and 
Rosenbloom allowed nothing to pass 
their respective sides of the line. 
West, the Pentathelon winner at this 
years Penn Relay Carnival, luckily 
grabbed the pigskin from a stray pass 
and bounded over the line to tie the 
score 7-7, just as the game ended..
The next two games totaled eightyseven points for the Plaid. Thiel Col
lege was easy picking, but Grove City 
put up a stubborn defense and Wallys 
boys scored only one touchdown each 
period.
With the two strongest opponents 
yet to be played, the Plaid befell its 
most serious injury of the season, 
when it relaxed against Allegheny 
College with an eleven of surprising 
weight and ability Red Godden, cap
tain of the team in 1920, suffered a 
broken leg, and his loss was a big 
factor in the following defeats. To 
be fair to Coach McCrackens boys, 
the 7-0 score did not begin to tell how 
well they deserved a score for the 
fight they put up.
Although Penn State annexed ten 
points during the hard fought game, 
not once did the Tartan lad3 show 
signs of weakness in any position of 
the team. They went to State Col
lege to win but it was apparent that 
(Continued on Page Eight.)
The cheer leaders need at least a 
little space on this page for a word 
of praise. Their work hasnt always 
been consistent but still considering 
the conditions under which they have 
had to perform their duties, they mer
it some mention. At the present the 
recognition and awarding of insignia 
is at variance between the Student 
Council and the Athletic Council.
Last fail Ross Hertz was given his 
letter as head cheerleader. He per
formed his task through the football 
season and then left school at the end 
of the first semester. Audy Olsen 
took over the work, and with Cy 
Hoenniger, Bill Fencil, Strizzi, Peezer 
Wilson and others who were active 
during the past year, is trying to de
velop some new men through cheer
leader classes. Commendation for 
these men and well wishes for suc
cess during the 1923 football season 
are at least a recognition of their 
services.
INTRA-MURAL TartanCaPtainsStars
C 'TTTT rTirc nr In Respective SportsATHLETICS RE
CEIVE IMPETUS
In ter-Fraternity Dormitory 
Track and Field Meet and 
Basketball League Support
ed Enthusiastically
UNDER Y AUSPICES
CARNEGIE HARRIERS 
HAVE FINE RECORD
Dykeman and Farrell Are In
dividual Stars of Tartan 
Runners
Although the Carnegie Tech har
riers of last fall were not alwa/s on 
top in every meet, they made a very 
creditable showing. The high spots 
of the season were the winning of 
the Allegheny Mountain Association 
Championship and Dykemaus record 
at the Syracuse Invitation Meet and 
the Intercollegiates at New York.
The season opened on October 21, 
when the squad journeyed to Cincin
nati where it defeated the University 
of Cincinnati runners to the tune of 
19 to 36. Five of the first six men 
to cross the line were Carnegie run
ners, Dykeman taking first place. 
Then followed the Syracuse Invitation 
Meet at Syracuse on November 4. 
Dykeman again romped away with 
first place beating out Columbias 
crack distance man, Higgins. The 
team however did not show up quite 
so good, finishing fifth in a field of 
six teams. At State on the day of 
the Penn State-Carnegie football 
game, the Tartan runners suffered a 
setback at the hands of Bill Martins 
harriers. Although Dykeman again 
finished first, the final reckoning 
showed that State had won by the 
score of 23 to 32.
On November 18, the annual Senior 
A. M. A. Championships were con
ducted under th auspices of Carnegie 
Tech over the Schenley Park course. 
This time Carnegie Tech was victo
rious, amassing 26 points, with Pitt 
second with 42 points and the Plaid 
reserve team third with 87 points. 
Earl Johnson of Edgar Thompson 
Steel took the individual honors with 
Dykeman close on his heels. At the 
Intercollegiates in New York on No
vember 27, Dykeman took fourth place 
and Ferral eighteenth out of a field 
of one hundred and twenty-five run 
ners. There were only the two men 
entered for Carnegie but their show
ing was very creditable considering 
that they were up against some of the 
best college runners in the east.
Howard Dykeman was .the outstand
ing star of the season finishing first 
in three out of five starts. He has 
proved himself to be one of the best 
distance runners in the east and with 
still another season before him should 
make a strong bid for Intercollegiate 
individual honors next fall. Incidentalyl he is captain-elect of the 1923 Plaid 
cross country team which means that 
the squad will have a most capable 
leader.
Captain Greenlaw of this year's 
team was handicapped all during the 
season by stomach trouble which kept 
him from making a favorable show
ing. Nevertheless he kept up the spir 
it of the team and made a very popu
lar leader. Ferrall who came out late 
in the season showed exceptional 
form and ran in the last three meets 
finishing well up in front. Tubbs and 
Mendenhall also showed improvement 
over the previous year and scored for 
the Plaid in nearly every meet. McKelvie was another man who devel
oped rapidly and made a most favor
able showing in several of the meets. 
Sampson, Bright and Hinderer also 
(Continued on Page Eight.)
U
COMING! 
SCHENLEY THEATER
CAMPUS WEEKRabbit Feet
------by------
HARRY L. HAMILTON
Better than Pennys Place,
Chesser (111.) Snooze & Snore
Incomparable from the standpoint of Technique and 
Superstition.Tarontula (Okla.) Oil Can
An egg beaterPuppet (C.I.T.)
Matinee performance ..................2:15
Evening performance (Students), 8:15 
PRICESAll seats, $1.00No rebates.
Activity and interest in the InterFraternity Dormitory Basket Ball 
League has been increasing from year 
to year and with the season just past 
became a recognized activity under 
the Y. M. C. A. The past season with
out a doubt, has been t.h* most sue* 
cessful of any so far, but this should 
be the case every year, each new 
season more successful than the last.
The fraternities and dormitories 
have * taken a real interest and- put 
forth their best efforts to win the cov
eted trophy. This trophy is known 
as the Scalp and Blade Trophy and 
was donated by the Scalp and Blade 
Fraternity during the 1922 season. It 
was won that season by Iota Sigma 
Delta after a hard fight with Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon and Kappa Sigma. 
This year the fight for the cup center
ed around Sigma Nu, Iota Sigma Del
ta and Xi Sigma Upsilou, after ties 
in two of the leagues had been played 
off, Xi iSigma Upsilon was easily dis
posed of and the final decision lay 
between the Iota Sigs and Sigma Nu, 
the latter finally winning out.
The help of the Y in making this 
form of mass athletics a success is 
greatly appreciated both by the league 
members and by the officers. The 
president of the league was appointed 
a member of the Y cabinet to co-or
dinate the work with that organiza
tion and the league received two bas
ket balls for usei in the games as well 
as other financial aid.
The officers of the league, H. H. 
Wilson, President, and G. L. Comfort. 
Secretary-Treasurer, deserve a word 
of praise for their tireless work 
throughout the season. They will 
turn over to their successors a task 
well done in the past.
This spring through the instigation 
of the Inter-Fraternity Council, Coach 
Paul Beeler and others, an Inter-Fra
ternity Dormitory Track and Field 
Meet was started. A large part of 
the events have been run off and the 
remaining events including the mile 
relay, which will be the feature, will 
be put on the Saturday afternoon of 
Campus Week.
Theta Tau, a national engineering 
fraternity, has presented a cup for 
the winner of the meet and Coach 
Beeler has offered a fine trophy for 
the victor in the relay. Delta Upsi
lon is at present leading in the scor
ing and will likely be hard to over
come in the final reckoning.
Other types of Inter-Mural atliletics 
have been mentioned and more or less 
discussed but have never approached 
a form of organization. Impromptu 
baseball games between fraternities 
have been held and there are other 
openings in tennis, soccer and the an
cient Scottish game of golf. No 
doubt these can be developed in years 
to come when the school and the fra
ternities are older and more firmly 
established.
Fullest praise has been given to 
those who stood out as stars, but the 
captains have not always beeu given 
their share of attention. This article 
is for those who may be curious con
cerning the way these leaders got 
their start.
Jimmy Anderson, who captained the 
T5T22' football team, and was actiug 
captain of the basket ball season dur
ing the past season in the absence of 
Captain Bell, has recently been elect
ed to another captaincy, that of the 
Tartan basket ball team for next sea
son. Andy came from Monongaheln 
High School. As an athlete, he has 
not stuck to any one sport, having 
played on the varsity football team j 
for three years in addition to being j 
on the basket ball squttd. He is a 
member of the class of 1924, taking 
the course in Metallurgical Engineer-1 
ing, ii member of Sdgnia Alpha Epsi
lon fraternity, and the Senior honor
ary society, Dragon.
Chester Brumbaugh is another cap
tain who is a versatile athlete. He 
is a steady performer at fullback on 
the football team ancl has had the 
appellation of War-Horse attached to 
him because of his steady, hard-work
ing manner. At the end of tho track 
season last year he was elected to 
captain the 1923 track squad. He 
is a speedy 440 man and a capable 
leader. Brummy is from Springdale, 
Pa., where he went to high school for 
two years. The remainder of his. 
prep career was spent at Tarentum. 
He is a Senior in Mechanical Engiheering, a member of Woodlawn Club, 
Dragon, Student and Athletic Coun
cils, and'generally prominent in school 
and class affairs.
Connie Schwartz is a Pittsburgh 
lad, having graduated from Schenley 
High School. He has played for three 
years on the varsity tennis team and 
his choice as captain of the 1923 team 
is felt to be a fortunate one. His 
playing is characterized by steady, 
consistent good form. Connie is a 
Senior in Civil Engineering, and a 
member of Woodlawn Club.
The cross-cmmtry leader was Basil 
N. Greenlaw. He hails from Ridge
way, N. J., and spent a year at Syra
cuse University before coming to Car
negie. He has been one of the main
stays of the track and cross-country 
squads during the four years he has 
been here. His interests are not con
fined to athletics. lie is a member 
of Alpha Tau, Delta Tuu Delta, the 
Athletic Council, and is chairman of 
the committee in charge of Campus 
Week athletics. Greenlaw will grad
uate this year with a degree in Ma
chine Production.
A REVIEW OF 
THE SEASONS 
COACHINGSTAFF
OFFICE OF GRADUATE
MANAGER STAGES SOME
STRENUOUS ATHLETICS
Wally Steffen and Dr. Marks 
Do Fine Work For Football. 
Paul Beeler Turning Out 
Promising Track Squad
TENNIS TEAM WINS
REVIEW OF PLEBE 
FOOTBALL SEASON
Two Cames Won and One 
Tied Out of a Total 
of Six
Walter.P. Steffen, now judge of tho 
Superior Court of Cook County, Illi
nois and advisory coach of Carnegie 
Tech football, was a former athlete 
under the tutelage of Alonzo A. Staag 
at the University of Chicago. Wally, 
as all Carnegie students know him, 
was developed into one of the speed
iest backs in the countryhaving 
been selected for two consecutive 
years for the first all-American foot
ball team.
Wally came to Carnegie Tech in 
1914 and for eight seasons he built 
up to Steffen system of coaching un
til today, Carnegie ranks among the 
leading colleges and universities of 
the country on the gridiron.
Wally has put his heart into the 
ambition of every Skibo player to 
light for the glory that has repeatedly 
been his reward, and were it not for 
his judicial duties demanding more 
of his time he would never think of 
giving up the pleasure he has enjoyed 
in seeing his Carnegie lads produce a 
class A winning team.
Robert N. Waddell, a Bucknell grad
uate, and a well known athlete from 
the University, was Wally Steffens 
assistant in football, as well as bas
ket ball coach, and a hustling assist
ant Graduate Manager of Athletics in 
the absence of Frank H. I-Iaaron.
Bob, by his pleasant yet severe ap
proach, won the admiration of all the 
football men and worked wonders 
with them by his presence. Just 
whon he was most needed, Bob ten
dered his resignation to accept a po
sition with his Alma Mater.
William Leroy Marks, M.D., tho 
campus physician and member of the 
Athletic Council was selected by 
Wally Steffen and the Athletic Coun
cil to fill the position of Field Coach 
for the 1923 grid team.
Doc was the coach of athletics at 
Carnegie for tho two yoars prior to 
Steffens debut. While at the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania from which ho 
graduated in 1911, Doc was consid
ered as an A-numbor-one football man.
Let's take a look inside tho door 
of the Graduate Managers olllce and j 
see who is doing all the hard work i 
that has put Plaid athletics to the | 
forefront during the past year. We 
used to see our old friend Frank 
Haaren in tho inner sanctum doing 
tho daily dozen but since his tempor
ary absence, A1 Irwin, erstwhile foot
ball captain and all-star center, has 
been taking care of the athletic reins.
Then we mustnt forget Miss Brainerd who keeps the typewriter hum
ming and adds a cheery note to the 
general atmosphere. Last of all we 
must mention Little Joe who wields 
tho shovel and sets tho type.
and in handling spring practice for 
the Plaid, he gave proof that he 
knows how to get the best work out 
of his men.
NEW MANAGERS 
IN MAJOR ATH
LETICS CHOSEN
Ryan and Bittner to Succeed 
Stromquist and Kellar as 
Football and Basketball 
Managers Respectively
OTHERS NOT ELECTED
A. C. Irwin, familiarly known as Al, 
is the boy who is keeping the wheels 
of the Athletic Association turning 
during the enforced absence of Mr. 
Haaren. Al is a. popular student, u 
stellar baseball player, and has played 
varsity football for four yearsbeing 
captain of the Skibo team during the 
season of 1921. Through his ability 
he was selected by Steffen to assist 
the Field Coach of football.
Paul Beeler is a product of the 
University of Florida and of the Uni
versity of Missouri. While at Florida, 
he excelled as a four letter manhav
ing been chosen captaiu of tho varsity 
basket ball team in his last year. A 
coach who is an athlete is generally 
the one who has the most success in 
turning out winning teams, but Coach 
Beeler prefers to build up those par
ticular branches of athletics in which 
he has been chosen head mentor, 
rathe.* than pool all his efforts toward 
producing only a winning team.
Up until Beeler came to Carnegie 
he has had considerable success in 
coachingbeginning as coach at Ne
braska State Normal, then at Wash
ington, Pa., High iScliool, W. & J. 
varsity baseball, and Johnstown High 
School.
As coach of the Plobe football and 
basket ball teams, Beeler drilled some 
very green material into workable 
players for next 'years teams. As 
coach of tho cross country team he 
has creatod more intorest In this sport 
than has ever been shown al, Car
negie before and as coach of varsity 
track he has proved; that his systom 
is the result of a number of years 
of, successful experiments in coaching.
Ben Lubic will probably retain for 
a number of yoars tho distinction of 
being the best baskot ball man that 
over played on a Pitt quintet. Bon 
(Continuod on Pago Eight.)
Tho student athlotio managers are 
a mighty important cog in the realm 
of college sports. At Carnegie Tech 
those men have always been of a high 
caliber. Men who are holding or will 
hold these positions next year are 
surely living up to tho standards set 
be their predecessors.
Win. H. (Pat) Ryan, was elected 
manager of Carnegie Techs football 
team for next year. Pat succeeds Vic 
Stromquist from whom he has been 
well Instructed along the lines of col
lege activities. Pat came to C. I. T. 
in the fall of 1920 from Lorain, Ohio. 
He is a member of Theta Xi Frater
nity, Druids, and Delta Skull, and was 
president of tho class of 1924 last year 
in the College of Engineering.
J. R. Reed from Erie, Pa., and 
George Slyo were elected assistants 
to Ryan. Both men are Sophomores; 
Roed a member of Delta Upisilon Fra
ternity and Slyo a member of Beta 
Theta Pi. These men should receive 
sufficient training from Ryan to en
able them to become good managers.
George Saltzman is the manager of 
tho Plebe team next year. George is 
a member of Sigma Nu Fraternity 
and also a member of tho Class of 
1924 in tho College of Engineering.
H. II. Wilson, of Erie, Pa., was 
elected by tho Athletic Council as 
manager of the cross country team for 
next year. Wilson is a member of 
Iota iS'igma Delta Fraternity, and is 
also Athletic Editor of the Carnegie 
Tartan. In his previous activities he 
has shown unquestioned ability and 
tlioro is no doubt of his ultimate suc
cess in his now capacity.
C. N. Hollingsworth was tho man
ager of tho Carnegio Toch inter-schol
astic moot and conducted it in a way 
which dosorvos tho hlgliost praise of 
tho student body.
S. E. Bittner, tho now basket ball 
managor for tho coming season is a 
member of tho Sigma Epsilon Phi Fra
ternity, and is onrolled in tho Civil 
Engineering course of the College of 
Engineering.
Don Williams tho prosoht track 
managor halls from Stroator, III. Ho 
(Continuod on pago 8)
The season opened September 31 
with Westinghouse Tech in the Car
negie Tech bowl, the Plebes winning 
38 to 0. This being the first game of 
the season and the boys never having 
been under fire together before, the 
score was amazing. The next game 
was lost to a more powerful team; 
no disparagement to the Freshmen.
The three games following were 
played with Beliefonte, Grove City 
Reserves, and Greensburg High. Two 
of these games were lost and one tied. 
Grove City Reserves were a tough 
proposition but the first-year men 
were able to hold them to a 6 to 6 tie. 
The last game of the season was the 
high point of the schedule. The In
diana Normal School team was 
coached by the. brother of our own 
able Paul Beeler and was primed to 
win if it were in the realm of possi
bility. The Plebes knowing this 
fought the hardest of any game dur
ing the season and emerged from the 
struggle wearing. the crown of vic
tory.
A word about the men comprising 
the team. First, Captain Predmore, 
who could always be counted on to 
fight for his men. He played a guard 
position most of the year and likewise 
did duty at center and tackle.
Beede and Reed, the two husky 
tacklers deserve a great deal of 
praise. Beede is a quiet man but in 
a game he was an obstacle hard to 
overcome. Cass, Schell and Bowers 
ably held down the guard positions, 
while Campbell did fine work at cen
ter. He was converted from an end 
into a center and proved himself very 
efficient. Kramer and Morgan were 
tho regular ends, and their work was 
of a high caliber.
Of the backfield men, Amans proved 
to be the best tackier and clipper 
but through several misfortuntes he 
was unable to participate in a num
ber of tho games. Van Alta was a 
hard line plunger and did splendid 
work on the defense. Mohrman and 
Cook showed up well but need much 
more seasoning.
Joe Christoff, quarterback, showed 
more promise than any other of the 
back, and in addition to being the 
team's general, was the leading point 
scorer of the team. Ferrall, the team's 
manager and Chester Hable, assistant 
coach, are to be commended.
The University of Engineering
Of all the things that go to make the 
successful engineer, none is more impor
tant, nor more in step with the spirit of the 
profession, than a studious attitude. One 
man says about anotherhe is always 
willing to learn, he doesrft think he 
knows it alland he intends to pay a 
high compliment when he says it.
The great engineers are always at 
school, always learning, always seeking 
for more knowledge. They begin with 
this desire for fuller understanding, and 
they keep it up to the end.
Any engineering operation, over and 
above the primary purpose for which it is 
carried out, is an active and post-gradu
ate class in engineering, also. So that 
Westinghouse, or any other great business,
is, of its very nature, a University where 
theory and practice combine to make big
ger, broader and more practical engineers.
' The courses in this University are not 
limited to prescribed subjects nor terms 
the subjects are almost infinite, and the 
semesters are endless. Men with the 
weight of years on their shoulders work 
and learn side-by-side with those whose 
day has just dawned.
This post-graduate school fits men for 
almost anything. Fits them for it, and 
makes them continually fitter. Out of 
this continuing fitness have grown the 
engineering accomplishments on which 
this institution has grown. It is, per
haps, one of the great educational insti
tutions of its day.
Westinghouse ( W
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
1/ESTINGH0USE
ELECTRIC

---------------------------------------------------

HUMAN HTRNETS 
Wade Stronger
You cnn wonr one Duro Bollo hnlr 
not many timo8 and It will Blili 
koop Uu I'hivpo and strength.
Thnt In IxiOftUBO of tlio fmnouii 
Duro, knotn foaturo not found 
In miy other hutr nut.
SntlBfnotlon guaranteed. Ask your 
doalor today.
For tlrosB or out of kd
doors, tho Duro Bollo Jf.
In
13 uythembythe
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWS
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
The regular monthly meeting of 
the Philadelphia Clan was held at 
the Arcadia Cafe, Saturday evening, 
May 5.
After the few members present had 
eaten Mrs. Arcadias delicious dinner, 
President Schmidt called us into busi
ness session. An election of officers 
for the coming year resulted as fol
lows:
PresidentJ. S. Charles.
Vice PresidentRussell Davis.
Secretary-TreasurerMiss Ethel M 
Fredette.
The principal discussion of the 
evening centered on the best means 
for getting acquainted -with visiting 
Techites, and serving them while in 
our city. It was finally decided that 
the Clan should run an advertisement 
in the! Carnegie Tartan each week, 
giving the names, address and tele
phones of officers and other members 
who can be reached at any time by 
those who come to Philly.
A resolution was adopted authoriz
ing the secretary to write R. H. Hor
ton congratulating him on his promo
tion to the position of Chief Engineer 
of the International Railways, Buffa
lo, N. Y. We are mighty sorry that 
Dick cannot be with us more often, 
but are mighty glad to see him at 
the top and we know lie is still go
ing up.
Five Recitals to Be 
Given During Week
Seniors in Department of 
Music to Play
MAGGY MURPHS MYSTERIOUS 
MACHINATIONS MYSTIFY MALES
(Continued from Page One) 
tables.
In the meantime a large crowd had 
collected outside the building. 
"Speech,' speech, cried the students 
seeing the Dean up in the air. I 
have nothing to say, responded the 
Dean. Astonishment was registered 
by the crowd.
What Can the Matter Be?
A Tartan reporter, with character
istic directness, had entered the 
building and accosted some of the 
girls. Hey, whats the matter? he 
asked (also, with characteristic 
finesse.)
Were all trying to make the win
ning costume for the Girls Kiddy 
Kar Race, was the reply.
The secret was out! Hence the 
unprecedented industry on the part 
of the girls dorms! Cutest costume 
cops the cup! So far no kiddy cars 
have been bought.
Beginning next Thursday night, a 
series of five recitals by members of 
the graduating class in the Depart
ment of Music will be held under the 
auspices of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. The first three will be 
given in the Theater, in the College 
of Fine Arts, and the last two are 
scheduled for Carnegie Music Hall. 
Each of the recitals is free, and no 
tickets will be required.
Thursday night, Esta Mae Burnett, 
at the piano, and Matthew N. Frey, 
at the organ, will give, the recital. 
Friday night, the students will be 
Gertrude E. Dodds, pianist, and Ed
ward Stribray, violinist. Saturday 
night, Alice Kirk, pianist, will give a 
recital. Each of these three is sched
uled for the Theater, at Carnegie 
Tech.
The recitals in Carnegie Music Hall 
will be presented by Charles A. H. 
Pearson, organist, on Monday night, 
May 21, and by Oscar L. Helfenbein, 
pianist, on Tuesday night, May 22. 
Both of these young men are widely 
known in Pittsburgh. Mr. Pearson is 
a post graduate student and last year 
won the distinction of being the first 
Carnegie Tech student to be awarded 
a degree of Master of Arts in Music. 
Mr. Helfenbein, according to a report 
at the school, is considered one of the 
most talented pianists to be gradu
ated.
On Sunday evening, May 27, all of 
the students presenting the abovementioned recitals - will appear as 
soloists in a .concert to be given by 
the Carnegie Tech Symphony Or
chestra. Tickets for this occasion 
will be distributed by the Music De
partment.
M. M. Alumnae to 
Enjoy Campus Week
Returning Women Wilt Re
new Old Acquaintances By 
Registering at Library Hut
The Alumni Office has been receiv
ing letters from all over the country 
concerning Campus Week, which indi
cates that we shall have a large rep
resentation from out of town.
Gummie, H. E. Gumbart, has 
written from China, stating he ex
pects to arrive in time for the big 
celebration. Come on, you fellows in 
the Pittsburgh district, get out and 
show your PEP!
NEW MANAGERS IN MAJOR
ACTIVITIES CHOSEN
(iContinued From Page Seven.) 
is a member of Beta Theta Pi Frater
nity and a member of the Senior class 
in Machine Production, in the College 
of Industries. He is taking good care 
of the cinder men.
H. C. Kreisle who is efficiently man
aging the tennis team this spring is 
a Senior in the Architectural course 
and a member of Delta Xi Fraternity.
BAG PIPES TO ASSIST
BAND IN ITS KAPERS
(Continued From Page One) 
ecuted by members of the band. 
These dances will be performed on a 
special platform, situate directly in 
front of the grandstand and erected 
specially for the occasion.
MARDIGSRBIFET
DOPE ADVISES 
TAG PURCHASE
CROSSES PACIFIC 
FOR CAMPUS WEEK
Free Admission Tag to 
Vaudeville Show, Kaper of 
the Kilties, Sweepstakes 
and Mardi Gras
TAGS COST 75 CENTS
We are in on the "ground floor of 
Campus Week, and if you do not take 
atvantage of this opportunity then 
you had better pack up and move to 
Mexico or China where you can for
get your mistakes at your leisure. 
You have seen the program, the best 
ever, and should have that confiden
tial alumni letter by this time.
Of course this cvelebration will go 
off whether you are here or not, but 
it is for you and we want you here. 
The students have worked hard for 
the success it will oe and as a guest 
you must come to show your appre
ciation.
Heres the dopeGet Campus Week 
Tags. They admit you free to the 
Vaudeville Show, Kaper of the Kil
ties, Coronation of the Queen, and all 
the other events of Thursday, except 
the Coronation Dance, which costs
H. E. Gumbart Leaves China 
in Time to Arrive For Big 
Celebration
Everybody out for Campus Week! 
You really must not miss the good 
times provided Cor you by tho com
mittee. The program will surpass 
that of former years and if you want 
to know what that means, ask some 
one who was there if you dont luive 
just first-hand information yourself.
Within a few days you will receive 
a letter from your class representa
tive, giving you the schedule of 
events, the cost per event, and show
ing how much the purchase of a tag 
will mean to your pocketboolc. Do 
not fail to buy a tag!
Now, about registering. This is 
very essential, so please do not for
get to stop at Alumnae Headquarters 
in the Hut and record the fact that 
you are among those present.
Also, why not have a reunion of 
your class ,even if it is not according 
to Dix? The more the merrier, and 
Mr. Dix will never know that you did 
not follow his outline Let's start 
something ourselves and show' folks 
that M. M. C. C. graduates dont wait 
to be told what to do.
Please read the program very care
fully and if you really must forego 
something, do not let it be tho wom
ens banquet. This is truly our own 
party and we must all be there.
Be sure to register and buy a tag.
CARNEGIE HARRIERS
HAVE FINE RECORD
(Continued from Page Seven) 
deserve mention for their good work 
on the squad.
A number of the men will be lost 
by graduation this spring, but the old 
men, with the material from the re
serve team which should develop next 
fall, will no doubt form another crack 
outfit for the 1923 season. Coach Paul 
Beeler, although handicapped by his 
work with the Plebe football team, 
developed a team which was a worthy 
opponent for any hill and dale squad.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Cliieago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
All Alumni Register 
at the Alumni 
Headquarters 
in the Hut
is is the Most 
Important Thing 
You Can D o 
While Here
Senior Class Will 
Be Guests of Alumni
Banquet at Fort Pitt, Big 
Campus Week Event
Tliej Alumni Luncheon will be the 
banner Alumni event of Campus 
Week. The committee has been hard 
at work and tho arrangements have 
been about completed. Many sur
prises are in store for you. The 
largest number of the faculty ever 
attending an Alumni function will bo 
there. Get out and tel I them what 
you thinlc of them. Many of tho 
trustees will be with us and it is 
even hoped that we may have repre
sentatives from the Carnegie Corpor 
ation present. In any event we will 
have tho best jazz band iti Pitts
burgh. lots of entertainment, and all 
we want is the crowd of Alumni to 
act as .hosts for the entire Senior 
class which wo are entertaining. Give 
the committee your support and ob
tain your luncheon tickets at once. 
Tho reservations are ?2 each, which 
includos everything. Dont be a 
"logey. Knock off work  Saturday 
morning if you arent out at the 
other Campus Week events, where 
you should be, and at least take in 
tho Alumni Luncheon. Be at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel at 12 M. sharp. This 
luncheon must ho run off on sched
uled time, in ordler that our guests 
and tho graduating class may take 
part in the other activities of the 
(day.1 Dont delay the procession, but 
better come late than not at all.
A REVIEW OF THE SEASONS
COACHING STAFF
SKIBO PIGSKIN CHASERS
RATED HIGH IN EAST
New Brunswick Records Daily
THE NEW HALL OF FAME
Sigrid Onegin
Contralto Metropolitan Opera Co.
15048Sapphiache Ode. . . Brahms 
(Sapphic Ode)
Auf Dem Kirchhofe Brahms 
(In the Churchyard)
(Sung in German)
Sigrid Onegin created a sensation as a new member 
of the Metropolitan Opera Company. Her voice 
has the glorious richness of tone looked for in great 
contraltos. Like other artists of the New Hall of 
Fame she selected Brunswick to immortalize her 
voice because of its faithful interpretation of the 
difficult tones, its clearness and brilliant interpreta
tions. Mine. Onegin gives the two beautiful Brahms 
selections a rendition full of glowing color and rare 
loveliness of expression. Be sure and hear them.
New Brunswick Records are now issued 
every day. They can be played on any 
phonograph but best on The Brunswick.
ttnmswich
(Continued from Page Seven) 
the Plaid had not recovered from the 
bruises and injuries received in the 
game of the previous week.
The Plaid colors were lowered in 
the seasons finale by Notre Dame's 
flying squadron. The attack present
ed by Knute Rocknes fighting Irish 
eleven was too much for the Scotch 
and a 19-0 tally truthfully told the 
comparative strength of the two teams 
that lined up in the snow-covered 
ground at Forbes Field last Novem
ber 25.
Spring football, something new at 
Carnegie was instituted this year and 
found to be a source of obtaining new 
material which could be given indi
vidual attention. About thirty-five 
candidates reported for regular prac
tice and new men. for the several po
sitions left vacant by graduation were 
found among the spring squad.
Hugh Sprinkle was elected captainelect, but later on it was found that 
he would be forced to graduate and 
another election was necessary. Jim
my Robertson was made captain-elect 
and every student, alumni, and foot
ball man welcomes him as their lead
er on the gridiron next fall.
W. H. Ryan succeeds Vic Stromquist in the appointment to manager
ship.
1923 Football Schedule.
Sept. 29Muskingum at Tech Field.
Oct. 6Thiel at Tech Field.
Oct. 13St. Ignatius at Cleveland.
Oct. 20Wash-Jeff at Washington, 
Pa.
Oct. 27Pitt at Forbes Ffeld.
Nov. 3Lehigh at Forbes Field.
Nov. 10TJ. of Detroit at Detroit.
Nov. 17Permanently open.
Nov. 24Notre Dame at Forbes 
Field.
L. O. ARMSTRONG, EXPLORER 
OF NORTHERN WILDS TO
SPEAK AT SCIENCE
Mr. L. O. Armstrong of the Bureau 
of Commercial Economics will pay a 
return visit to Science 'School, Wed
nesday. For forty years Mr. Arm
strong has acted as explorer for gov
ernments and railways, and is the 
true type of an "Outdoors Man. Fac
ulty members and students of the 
other divisions are invited to attend 
the Assembly and hear Mr. Armstrong 
describe his beautiful Movies of the 
North.
you ?'l with a tag, and $3 without. 
Friday, you have tho Girls Sweep
stakes, the Inter-fraternity Sweep
stakes, Girls Championship Tennis 
Match, Musical] Box Revue, the 
Crowning of King Tut, and the Mardi 
Gras and Carnival, all free with the 
tag. Siiturday, the tag admits you to 
the Varsity Tennis Match and tho 
Greek Olympic. It also gives you a 
reduction on your theater tickets for 
Rabbits' Feet/ Do not neglect to 
buy that Campus Week Tag which re
tails at the small sum of 75 cents.
Dont forget to register at Alumni 
Headquarters, Carnegie Library Hut, 
opposite Arts Building, and next to 
the tennis courts.
We have the largest searchlight in 
the world to advertise this alumni 
celebration. This giant light will be 
mounted on the Machinery Hall tow
er to remind those alumni and stu
dents who have allowed Tech to slip 
from their minds, for the instant that 
there is something doing on the old 
campus, something which they should 
be in on. Just remember when you 
see this light fifty or one hundred 
miles from Pittsburgh that it's time 
for you to pack up and get ready for 
the big celebration. Come and bring 
your grandmother and don't forget 
the rest of the family. Something 
will be doing every minute from 9 a. 
m. to 2 p. m. Of course there has 
been a special committee to take care 
of those alumni who want to start out 
after this hour. The names of this 
committee are withheld, but can be 
obtained when you register at the 
Alumni Headquarters, Carnegie Li
brary Hut.
1923 THISTLES WILL BE
OUT SATURDAY MORNING
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
of tho fraternity houses and dormi
tories on or near tho campus would 
avail themselves of this date and 
thereby avoid some of the usual mad 
rush. Tho office will be open until 4 
p. pi., and there will thus bo plenty 
of time to serve everyone.
For those who failed to secure a 
copy when the year book was offered 
for sale last fiill, a few extra copies 
will be sold. The editor-in-chief, Mr. 
Ray B. Keller, wishes to emphasize 
that no waiting list will be main
tained and that a strict policy of first 
come, first served, has been decided 
upon. This, of course, does not in
clude those who ordered a Thistle last 
fall and at that time made a deposit.
Room 14 is in the basement of the 
College of Industries.
(Continued from Pago Seven) 
entered the, coaching field two years 
ago by turning out a first class high 
school basket ball from Braddock. Im
mediately upon coming to Carneglo 
after tho resignation of Bob Waddell, 
| basket ball coach, Bon bogan to sound 
out tho material on hand and found 
that several of (ho candidates1 woro 
ineligible. As tho season progressed 
several more of his men woro taken 
by tho scholastic loll uufcH Bon had 
just enough men left to fill tho posi
tions on tho team. That was tough 
on it now coach who was desirous of 
pulling through tho long schodulo with 
somo degree of suocess.
Lubio will probably bo back noxt 
winter to further develop into varsity 
matoiial tho boys with whom tho 
Plobo coach, Paul Boolor, had so much
SUCOOHB.
Charles S. Garland, known In ten
nis circles as "Chuck Garland, is well 
known to all enthusiasts of tho sport 
throughout this country and abroad.
Garland, who nuccoods Colonol 
Brooks as coach a I. Carnoglo Tooh, 
was born at Edgowood in Pittsburgh, 
whoro ho still rosldos.
In 1918, 1919 Garland, was ralod as 
eighth boat player In tho country and 
In 1020, whllo rated eighth ho was 
chosen as ono of tho four on tho Da
vis cup team from Amorlcu. Garland 
and Williams won tho crown at Wim
bledon and with It wont tho worlds 
championship In doubles.
For tho last. year or LU Chuolc haa 
boon intoroHted in tho advancement 
and popularization of tounls In this 
district, and for tho last two succes
sive years ho has holpod to capture 
tho title of champion doubles for 
Western Pennsylvania. 0. B. Burgwin, a P. A. A. man, and Sain ilardy 
woro Ills partners in those matches, 
which wore playod in Pittsburgh.
Wlillo Chuck Is living at his homo 
and doing everything posslblo to pro
mote tennis in general, ho has con
sented to give his time and onorgy to 
coaching tho team at Carnoglo Tech 
for the 1923 season and probably for 
futuro teams. Though ho has had lim
ited experience in coaching, the squad 
and candidates for tho team are, to a 
man, confident that their new coach 
will produce a championship team 
which has won or tied all matches to date.
WINNERS OF COLLEGE WIT
CONTEST NOT YET DECIDED
(Continued From Page One) 
expected that the Carnegie Tech Pup
pet will place about third or fourth, 
although the exact position will not 
be known until next week.
Carnegie students that have mate
rial in the first number are: Sidney
K. Eastwood, Jack Frost, J. K. Matter, 
Ruth Sinclair George, W. F. Kauf
man, Don Gardner, G. P. Smith, T. S. 
Repplier, and Chuck Cooper. With 
exception of cover cuts, Carnegie stu
dents contributed the only full page 
cut in the book.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
THURSDAY, MAY 17 
RecitalEsta Mae Burnett, Piano j Matthew N. Frey, Organ
Theater, College oil Fine Arts................................ . 3.15 p
FRIDAY, MAY 18 
RecitalGertrude R. Dodcls, Piano; Edward Stribray, Violin.
Theater, College of Fine Arts..................................... 8-35 P M
SATURDAY, MAY 10 
RecitalAlice Kirk PianoTheater, College of Fine Arts, 8 *15 P. M.
MONDAY, MAY 21 
RecitalCharles A. Pearson, OrganCarnegie Music HalL..8:15 P. M.
TUESDAY, MAY 22 
RecitalOscar L. Helfenbein, Piano
Carnegie Music Hall.............................................. 8-15 P M
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY 
MAY 24, 25, 26 
CAMPUS WEEK
OFFICIALS ANNOUNCED
FOR SWEEPSTAKE RACE
(Continued From Page Ono) 
that all spectators refrain from 
crowding upon the track for it will 
be necessary to deal out severe pun
ishment if such intruders are caught. 
There will be four trophies given this 
year, two for the girls race and two 
for the mens. These cups have ar
rived and are on display in the 
Graduate Manager's office. Every one 
of them are worth winning.
The new rules for this years race 
should insure a much faster and 
therefore a much more exciting race 
than last year.
A. K. E. ACCEPTED BY
ETA KAPPA NU FRAT.
(Continued From Page One.) 
pa Epsilon are Professor Wm, R, 
Work, W. S. Andrews, E. A. Brand, 
J. B. Coleman, O. J, I-Iorger, T. C. 
Lloyd, K. T. Milne, H. O. Sprlngle, 
R. A. Garbelt, W. J. Lyman, J. A. An
derson, P. M. IflHSom, G. B. MfiElheny, J. D. Seabort.
Eta Kappa Nu FIIL founded at UnivorHlty of Illinois in 1901. Tho inetal. 
latlon of tho Carnegie chapter will 
take placc next Saturday night; and 
will bo followed by a banquet at tho 
Fort Pitt Hotel.
LOSTScarab Fraternity Pin. "L. 
C., Philae engraved on back. Return 
to Les Cousins, Architecture.
MONEY FOR SUMMER WORK 
LET US START YOU
Without a cent of capital In our dh-ectto-conaunicr plan taking ordern for the 
bent Bhoon money can buy. Quick oiler 
and Hood commlwiion. T)n money mak
ing opportunity, whole or part time. No 
experience neceBBary. Tannero Shoe Mfii. 
Co., 493 C. St., Eoflton, Mann.
* Clarion
^.hwixscn SracQ
? r^10 CHro weur Town- nend-Gruco Straw Huts be
cause the jityle of them ex
presses bent: tho wearer* per
sonality. Wear ono unci bo
comfortable,
Whcro all the studonts go. 
"Ever foremost In new Ideas
C. A. HEIMERT
3614 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Stnndnrtl Quality Slnco 1882.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Cnpltnl....................................*200,000.00
Surplun nnd Undlvldod
Profit................................If.300,000.00
Dopoulto, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST. 
tmmmmmmmtramtmmtmmmti
Compliments = 
of
Skibo Inn I
Philadelphia Clan
Wants to get acquainted
When you are in our city.
Will you call us up?
We will show you
What you desire to see.
Whatever you do afterward
W-rlng up one of the following:
J. S. Charles.. .Wyoming 1799-J
P. W. Schmidt.. .Oregon 6040 
or Woodland 8818-W
L. E. Exllne..............Locust 5470
or Preston 4504-J
W. P. Llpplncott, Riverton 544-J
PAGE EIGHT _________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_______________________________________________________________________________________________WEDNESDAY, M, 16, 1923
