HAVE YOU KEDEEMED 
YOUR THISTLE YET? 
TOMORROW LAST DAY!
CAMPUS WEEK IS OVER 
NOW. LET'S SETTLE 
DOWN TO WORK
VOL. XVII. NO. 34CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 1923
CAMPUS WEEK 
IMPROVING AS 
THE YEARS PASS
Starting With the Vaudeville 
Show Thursday Morning 
and Ending With the Show 
Rabbit Feet It is Success
ful
MANY ALUMNI BACK
Another Campus Week has come 
.and gone, being as was expected, the 
jnost successful of the four held thus 
far, yet surprising everyone by its 
really superlative success in events, 
weather and spirit.
The celebration opened informally 
with the Tartan banquet, Inter-Fra
ternity Migratory Dance, and search
light. The Tartan banquet was inter
esting and well attended, but hardly 
any better than last years.
The Migratory Dance made a grea't 
hit with everybody; even those who 
Jiave attended all of them must admit 
that as time passes on, the technique 
and skill of the fraternities, in provid
ing an enjoyable evening increases.
The searchlight aroused much spec
ulation as to its carrying capacity, 
horsepower, candlepower, and espe
cially questioned the veracity of the 
Tartans statements about the light. 
Upon investigation the Tartan was 
found to be correct as usual.
The vaudeville Thursday morning 
formally opened Campus Week and 
did not contain a dead number on the 
program. The Qualification exer
cises were marked by the more novel 
removal of the coffin; it was buried 
instead of burned.
The Kaper of the Kilties caused 
considerable favorable comment and 
it is hoped, stirred up sufficient inter
est axnong the Alumni to finally cover 
the remaining deficit. The AlumniVarsity tennis match resulted of 
course in-an overwhelming victory 
for the varsity.
The coronation of the Campus 
Queen, a gorgeous Oriental fete, was 
quite as impressive as last years, 
though not as colorful due to the ci
vilian garb of the.audience. The Cor
onation Dance immediately following 
was so well liked that it will doubt
less remain a permanent feature of 
Oampus Week.
The Girls Scotch Race opening 
Fridays activities proved a fair ad
versary of the Inter-Fraternity Sweep
stakes which followed, and the girls 
deserve credit for their spirit. The 
sweepstakes were greatly improved 
by four shifts of runners instead of 
two, as was formerly the custom, 
(Continued on Page Two)
TARTAN STAFF MEMBER
ERRS, MAKING AMAZING
PREMATURE DISCOVERY
The Tartan wishes to apologize for 
the story of the Senior Fence pub
lished, by accident, in last week's 
issue, which was to be held over for 
today.
The story was originally written 
by Fred Knowles, 21, during the 
Sophomore year, but owing to a few 
delays in the Fence, was never used.
COLLEGIATE SIX 
TO PLAY AT BALL
Orchestra Definitely Engaged 
For Farewell Dance 
on June 15
The Collegiate Six has been definately engaged to play at the Com
mencement Bali on June 15. There is 
no reason why this last big social 
event of the school year shouldnt be 
one of the seasons greatest successes 
and it will be, if everybody turns 
out in full regalia.
Last week we gave the main facts 
concerning the ball, these facts aie 
still unaltered, and will remain un
altered. However, for the benefit of 
those who have not a copy of last 
weeks Tartan . at hand, here is the 
gist of the matter.
The ball is in the nature of a sendoff to our Seniorsor to those of our 
Seniors who graduate this year. The 
Collegiate Six will furnish the music. 
The cost of admission is a dollar and 
a half. Tickets are to be on sale by
SEVEN HUNDRED 
LOYAL ALUMNI 
FEED SATURDAY
English Room in Fort Pitt is 
Crowded to Capacity While 
Former Students Banquet 
and Recall Days of Yore
PRES. BAKER SPEAKS
Last Saturday noon, the Fort Pitt 
Hotel was the scene of perhaps tlie 
most enthusiastic alumni gathering 
in the history of Carnegie Tech. Fully 
seven hundred loyal Carnegie men 
and women gathered in the English 
Room of that lvotel to celebrate as 
group, and express their appreciation 
of the undergraduate efforts to ap
proach the greatest campus week 
yet. That this committee of students, 
headed by A. R. (Dutch) Zelt, did suc
ceed in fostering the greatest cele
bration during Campus Week history 
no one is so bold as to deny. And. 
this large gathering, over a hundred 
of whom were compelled to eat in an
other dining room, expressed their 
appreciation in no uncertain way, for 
their enthusiasm was certainly almost 
unbounded.
Credit is due the luncheon commit
tee of the Federation for they certain
ly did their work well. About the 
only slip they made was in engaging 
a room entirely too small to hold the
INDUSTRIES JUNIOR CLASS 
HAVE FINAL ELECTIONS
FOR CABINET OFFICERS
The re-election for vice president 
and for treasurer of Industries Junior 
class was held last Wednesday. The 
results were as f-ollows:
Vice PresidenttM. D. Kalfelz. 
TreasurerTom McDonald.
NEW LEADERS 
OF CARNEGIE 
TARTAN CHOSEN
WORK ON NEW GYM 
MAKING PROGRESS
Building Will Consist of Four 
Connected Units to Face 
Tech Street
the time this issue of the Tartan is 
printed, and may be obtained from gan loyaK Carnegie men and
the following: Doc Taylor, of Arts;
Olie Jones, of Industries, and Sam 
Bittner, of Science.
Above all, dont -forget that every 
man, woman, and child of Carnegie 
Tech is invited.
CLASS OF 25 DONATES 
CAMPUS WEEK PENNANT
Mellon Hall Wins in 
Girls Scooter Race
Virginia Clark and Gertrude 
Lyons Are Winning Team
Miss Virginia Clark and Miss Ger 
trude Lyons, representing Mellon 
Hall, annexed first place in the girls 
scooter race which was run as a pre
liminary to the interfraternity sweep 
stakes last week.
Miss Lucille Wiggin and Miss Selma 
Berger won the prize for the best cos
tumed team.
The scooter race was run off on the 
Woodlawn Speedway. The first relay 
ran from the starting line between 
the Science and Central Buildings 
down the speedway to the Margaret 
Morrison College, where the second 
relay manned the scooters and re
turned to the starting line.
The girls scooter race is an innova
tion in the campus week program and 
was highly applauded by the throng 
of spectators which crowded the Car
negie Tech speedway that morning.
WELL-KNOWN PITTSBURGER
DR. BAKERS NEW ASSISTANT
Frederick J. Hartman, who began 
his work May 16 as assistant to 
President Baker, is a native Pitts
burgher. He is widely known in this 
district, and also throughout the state 
through his connection for the past 
four years as Secretary of the Indus
trial Board of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Hartman was born in Pitts
burgh November 30, 1883, and receiv
ed his education in the public schools 
of this city and at Kenyon College, 
from which he was graduated in 190G. 
He was in business here for several 
years until 1912, when he was appoint
ed secretary to the Dean in the Col
lege of Industries, at Carnegie Tech. 
In 1919, he resigned his position at 
Tech to become secretary of the 
State Industrial Board.
NewMen Initiated 
Into Scarab Last Week
Thosw men in the Architectural De
partment of Carnegie Tech who rate 
high in scholarship activities and 
leadership were rewarded last week 
for their work, by being iniated into 
Scarab, the professional architectural 
fraternity. They are: E. M. Gear
hart, J. R. Reed, Wayne Koppes, C. 
F. Bowers, V. H. Stromquist.
The 1925 class of the College of En
gineering donated to the school the 
campus week pennant which flew be
neath Old Glory on tho campus flag 
pole during Campus Week.
The gilt was accepted by Chairman 
Zelt of the Campus Week committee. 
H. P. Rassbach was chairman of the 
committee which decided upon the 
specifications and selected the pen
nant.
The purchase of the Campus Week 
pennant followed the action taken by 
the Engineering Class of 1925 several 
weeks ago when they voted an ex
penditure to commemorate Campus 
Week.
Girls Unveil Monument 
To Their Pacemaker--Eve
Eve was a terrible piece of cheese. 
She got the first man who dwelt upon 
the earth in a whole pack of trouble. 
In doing so she set an example, and 
ever since, her descendants have been 
keeping time. So, what would have 
been more proper than for the girls 
of Mellon Hall to raise a monument 
to her upon Mellon Hill? The girls 
all point back with great pride to 
Eves achievement, and say with 
haughty expression: She gave us
our inspiration.
Which explains why, at the Bridge 
and Garden Party of Campus Week, 
the girls of this Carnegie Tech un
veiled a monument to their immortal 
example-setter.
But,' we scribes of Ye Carnegie Tar
tan, call upon you, members of the 
miscalled stronger sexshall we al
low this unveiling to go unanswered? 
Shall we have our names forever be
smirched by permitting that martyr 
to our cause be unremembered? Let 
us unveil a monument to ADAM!he 
who first fell under the bewitching 
gazes of women! Long live ADAM 
the first martyr of the cause of men! 
What say?
Episcopalian Students to 
Hold Meeting Tomorrow
The last meeting of the Episcopal
ian students and faculty of Pitt and 
Carnegie will be held tomorrow after
noon, at 4:45 p. m. and will last for 
forty-five minutes only. This is a 
short but very important meeting as 
there are two proposed amendments 
to the constitution to be voted on 
andi the committee for next years 
work will be appointed. The meeting 
will be held in the parish house of the 
Church of the Ascension at 4927 Ellaworth avenue.
This is near the campus, and it is 
hoped that everyone will be out as the 
meeting will be over in time fcr every
one to get to their respective eating 
houses before the supper bell rings.
women who came out. Next year, 
with the new gymnasium ready 
place large enough to hold a much 
larger gathering will be available, and 
then, the writer hesitates to even 
make a guess at the number of alum 
ni who will turn out. Assuredly, 
judging from the success of Campus 
Week this year, next' year will find 
just about twice as many former stu(Continued on Page Two.)
RIOTOUS BOURGEOISE 
CELEBRATE MARDI GRAS
Once more the spirits broke loose 
and played havoc with the gloom and 
despondency which have so long 
stalled about the campus when last 
Friday night the Carnegie Clan cut 
loose and threw conventions to the 
wind ini the wild revels of the Mardi 
Gras.
It wa3 a night of potentialties and 
a grim silence hung over the Campus 
at 6:00 p. m., like a Pittsburgh fog 
on an Ostober morn, only the clatter 
of cutleiy Henderson Hall disturb
ing the serene silence.
Soon a new note broke the tranquil 
scene as a Plebe stuck himself with 
,a safety pin while donning his cos
tume. Events now moved rapidly, tho 
refractory Druids crowning a king 
Tut in opposition to the Campus 
Queen, and by twilight the campus 
was covered) by scurrying figures 
seeking their mates.
Soon the wail of the saxapliones 
and drove of drums attracted many 
and in the Arts Foyer, Langley Lab
oratory and Union, couples swung and 
slid fantastically rythmic to the barbaris tunes. The searchlight was 
meanwhile unlimbered and two pry
ing electricals unearthed many in
triguing scones.
From nine till two the festivities 
continued same within, others with 
out, love and refreshments flowing 
freely and unrestrained. All that par(Continued on Page Two.)
Senior Boat Excursion 
On Homer Smith June 12
Professor Ellis spoke before the 
Womans Club of Oakland at its 
Presidents Day reception in the
(Hotel- Schenley, May 18. His subject 
was The Field of Applied Art.
Mr. John W. Beatty, director Emer
itus of the Fine Arts Department, 
gave a lecture in the College of Fine 
Arts last Monday afternoon on 
Cezanne, Van Gogh and Gaugin; 
Their Relation to Modern Art."
The next and last sailing of the 
Homer Smith, White Star Liner, is 
on June 12. This massive boat leaves 
dock promptly at 11 a. m. and will 
have on board Carnegie Techs largest 
Sfenior class. An alluring route of 
2,000 miles of ever changing scenery, 
and life-giving breezes will give you 
new pep on this fascinating trip to 
Sewickley Beach.
Dancing will be enjoyed on the 
steamer to and from the beach. The 
boat will arrive at the beach at 
1:30 p. m. and dock for 2% hours. 
During this interval the tourists will 
leave the boat and partake of old 
fashioned basket lunches that are to 
be taken by the lady tourists.
The beach is provided with tables 
to accommodate such picnics and will 
offer an ideal spot. The boat leaves 
dock at 4 p. m. and returns at 7 
p. m. It was decided at a four school 
senior meeting that the affair should 
be mixed, that is the co-ed or male
senior can at her or his option bring
an escort that is not a member of
the class of 1923.
There will be men stags and 
women doe and in case you are one, 
dont let that trifle hold you back 
from this exclusive trip. Seniors, 
lets support this trip and all tho 
other events of Commencement Week 
and make it as memorable as Campus 
Week.
The work of beginning the actual 
construction of tlie gym has been 
hailed with an unusual amount of joy 
by tlie students and the friends of the 
Institute largely due to the numer
ous delays which have heretofore im
peded progress. I
The chief cause of delay was the 
changing of the original location, 
from the plot at the rear of the College of Fine Arts, to the corner plot 
across Tech street After the plans 
had been drawn to place the building 
upon its originally intended location 
the board of trustees purchased the 
Steele property across Tech street in 
order to, better accommodate the 
building. This required practically a 
new set of drawings.
When completed, it should be one 
of the best equipped and finest of col
lege gymnasiums in the country. In 
its design, Professor Henry Hornbostel, the architect, lias succeeded in 
planning a building that will give as 
much to a modern gymnasium as the 
money would allow, and without too 
much of a sacrifice of architectural 
beauty.
Tho entire building will face Tech 
street, and will consist of four con
nected units: The womens gymna
sium on the left, the administration 
building, in the center, tho mens 
gymnasium on the right, and tho 
swimming pool, connected with the 
Administration building, in tho rear. 
The two gymnasiums will have two 
stories, the administration, three. Both 
gym and tho swimming pool unit willbe connected by enclosed corridor i 
with the administration building, and 
a feature of tho construction plans is 
that the womons gymnasium will bo 
entirely cut off from connection with 
the mens gym.
According to tho plans, both of tho 
gymnasiums and the swimming pool 
will be the largest in the city. Tho 
womens section will contain tho rog(Continued on Page Throe.)
Athletic Situation 
Reviewed By Faculty
Suggest That Head Coaches 
Be Faculty Members
H. F. Simpson, Editor-in-Chief 
of 1923 Tartan. W. Cun
ningham to Be Business 
ManagerNew Staff Pub
lished Soon
FORMER EDITOR TALKS
Snappiness and speed were the 
main characteristics of the annual 
Tartan banquet which held forth a* 
the University Club, from six-thirty 
until time for the migratory dance to 
begin, last Wednesday evening.
After a. fine spread and a few mem
bers of the Collegiate Six had put 
overyone present in good humor, tho 
speakers guns opened fire. The 
Toastmaster was F. I. Gaston, a for
mer editor of the Carnegie Tartan 
when it was very young in its career. 
The speakers were T. W. Morris of 
the Associated Pross, and Dr. Baker. 
Mr. Morris gave the Tartan represen
tatives some information concerning 
the great news-gathering syndicate of 
which he is a part. He also spoko 
reminiscently of reportorial attri
butes. Dr. Baker briefly summarized 
the work of tho Tartan for the year. 
Guest was R. S. Clark of tho Press 
Bureau.
At the close of tho banquet, Victor 
Stromquist, retiring editor-in-chlof, 
commended the Tartan Staff for tho 
loyalty shown during tho year, and 
announced tho recommendations for 
next years chief and business man
ager, who will bo II. F. Simpson, and 
Web Cunningham, rospectivoly. Dur
ing tho past year, Simpson was an as
sociate oditor of tho Tartan and tho 
author of tho column For Tho Good 
of Carnegio Tech. Cunningham was 
tho advertising manager.
SECOND FOUR-SCHOOL TEA 
DANCE FOR SENIORS IN 
UNION FRIDAY AFTERNOON
Tho second Four School Senior Ton 
Danco will be held next Friday, June 
1, In the Carnegie Union.
The Collegiate Ihips will furnish the 
music and every Senior is urged to 
attend. No assessment will be 
charged and the only requirement for 
admission will be tho Commencement 
W6ek. Tag.
MEMORIAL STARTED 
FOR PROF. KELLER
Shelf of Books to Be Gift of 
Faculty-Students Asked 
to Help
KAPPA SIGMA CAR WINS 
ANNUAL SWEEPSTAKES
Tho following action was takon on 
the faculty report pn athletics at tho 
last meeting.
Professor F. F.'McIntosh explained 
his memorandum to tho oxooutlvo 
committee of the general faculty, cop
ies having been sent to tho mombers 
with tho call for tho mooting, with 
regard to the report of the special 
committee on athletics. His motions 
prevailed to the effect that physical 
training and athletics should form an 
important part of educational work at 
C. I. T., and that the faculty should 
have a larger representation on the 
Athletic Council.
It was voted that: The head
coaches of the major sports bo mem
bers of the faculty; they should be 
paid by the Institute and only by the 
Institute; should be in residence 
throughout the year under the same 
conditions as other members of the 
faculty; they should have other du
ties in the Physical Training Depart
ment or oome other depaytment in ad
dition to coaching athletic teams; 
they should have the same perma
nence of appointment as other mem
bers of the faculty; they should be 
selected in the same way as other 
members of the faculty; their posi
tions should be such in every way 
that high grade men will be drawn 
to the work as a life work.
Just what steps will be taken to 
put this ruling into effect is not yet 
known. No action will be taken un
til next year.
New Thistle Board Elected; 
Receipts Must Be Redeemed
SCIENCE SENIORS TO GET
ENGLISH THEMES JUNE 5-6.
The Freshman Themes of Engineer
ing Seniors will be returned to those 
who call for them at 123 Science on 
Monday or Tuesday, June 4 or 5. 
Themes not called for by 9 a. m., June 
6 will be destroyed.
The Thistle board has elected their 
officers for next year. A new amend
ment to the constitution provides for 
three more men to be appointed 'by 
the board to act or work with it. This 
was done to recognize those men who 
worked hard last year but were not 
elected to the new board.
Tho officers aro as follows:
Editor-In-Chief.........................G. E. Slyo
Business Manager...............O. it. Reed
Sales Manager ......................C. R. JSlnn
Sporting Editor ..................Don Gardner
Treasurer ...........................M. D. Kalfelz
Secretary ..........................Margaret Allen
Beginning Friday, Juno 1, Thistles 
upon which final payments have not 
been made will be Hold to tho Btudent 
body, and those who hold partial pay
ment receipts mus 
payments at once ii: 
their books.
The contract, 
chasera of the Thisljle on the install(Continued on Page Three)
complete their 
order to redeem
signed by purTho Kappa Siigina car, by a strong 
finish, rompod homo a winnor in tho 
annual Intor-fratornlty sweepstakes. 
The Dolta XI racer took llrst prize 
for tho best dosignod car.
With 11 no weather, a fast track, 
and a largo crowd of enthusiastic 
spectators, Bill Pfouts, ono of the of
ficial judges, prodlctod a fast raco. 
After an ondloss numbor of cameras 
had had tholr click, after tho prelim
inary girls scootor raco had boon run 
off, and after tho judges had chosen 
the best designed car, tho crowd was 
urged behind tho ropes, and the num* 
berod cars took their place on. tho 
sarting lino of tho Carnogio Toch 
speedway.
All traffic on Woodlawn avenue and 
on that part of Blgolow boulevard 
which lay In tho route of cars was 
suspondod. Sixteon racers facod the 
'barrier at tho start or tho grind and 
dashed off at tho craclc of tho pistol. 
Tlie cars rounded tho llrst turn with 
No. 3, tho S. A. 13. wagon in tho load. 
Tho route was divided Into four divi
sions, necessitating four pushers, 
each station at tho proper interval, 
for each car.
At the final change of pushers, tho 
Si A. E., Theta XI and Kappa Sigma 
Oars were bunched. D. V. Beode, 
fourth horse for tho Kappa Sigma, by 
a. fine burst of speed, succeedod in 
getting his boat out In front, and 
finished several lengths to the good.
(Continued on Pago Two)
Campus Week Gets Good 
Start at Vaudeville Show
The death of Professor Keller on 
January twelfth, terminated a lifo of 
service such as only; few men achieve. 
Samuel S. Keller was the second man 
appointed to tho faculty and served 
as the head of tho Department of 
Mathematics until his death.
It is, tliejtt, not surprising that ho 
should have had such a strong influ
ence on tho policy of the school in its 
formative period as well as later. 
Professor Keller was greatly interest
ed in the physical as well as mental 
doveopment of the students and as 
chairman of tho Committee on Ath
letics ho did much to foster and main
tain tho high standard of sportmansliip which is now associated with tho 
Plaid teams.
It is appropriate that somo perma
nent memorial should bo placed on 
tho campus in memory of this leador 
in tho development of tho school wo 
all hold dear. Tho General Faculty 
has votod a sum of money for tho pur
chase of books for a sholf to bo placed 
in tho library and to bo known as tho 
Keller Memorial Sholf of Books. A 
conunittoe has boon appointed, con(Continuod on Pago Two.)
DISTINGUISHED 
SPEAKERS FOR 
SENIOR WEEK
Dr. Shailer Mathews Will 
Deliver the Baccalaureate 
Address to the Graduating 
Class Sunday, June 10
ADDRESS BY DR. SHAW
KNIGHTS OF SLIPSTICK 
SOON TO ENTER LISTS
Onco moro do ye Noble Knights of 
Yo Slopstlck moot to tryst with the 
fateful exams and vorlly twill bo an 
exhausting contest; a flight to y 
bitter ondo.
Upon tho sixth of June, yo fatal 
struggle begins and not untili tho 
fourteenth, doos poaco onco more 
roign, but in yo Interim many may 
moot their doom.
It would bo moot for thoso who 
outer yo finals to ho well up In their 
stuff, for thoso who aro not, will got 
such a rating, oven enough to spell 
roforco.
And thoso who pass successfully 
shall bo promoted and shall gain 
much honor, but thoso who fall must 
ropos t or ovon go over to yo Pitt 
school,
Bo yo condition what I hoy may, wo 
oxtond our best wishes to your huc- 20SS and remember, yo shall reap aa 
yo havo sown.
Pi Delta Epsilon Initiates 
Former Alpha Alpha Nus
Friday noon, May 25, at tho I-Iotel 
Schonloy, PI Dolta Epsilon, Publica
tion Honorary Fraternity, Initiated 
live alumni members. Tho men takon 
in have In tho past distinguished 
thomBQlvoB by tholr work on Tho 
Carnegie Tartan. Thistle and Puppot, 
Two were former editors of The 
Carnegl Tartan, while another was
Opportunity to hoar ono of the 
best-known speakers of the country 
will bo given to every Carnegio stu
dent Sunday night, June 10, when Dr. 
Shailer Matliows of Chicago, delivers 
the baccalaureate sermon to the Sen
iors. In accordance with the usal 
custom, tho entire studeut body'and 
tho general public, are invited to hear 
tho baccalaureate, which will be given 
in Carnegie Music Hall.
Several persons connected with the 
faculty or administration of Carnegio 
Tech have already hoard Dr. Mathews 
speak; and all are unanimous in de
claring him to 'bo one, of the best 
speakers they ever heard. According 
to them, ho fully lives up to his repu
tation of being one of tho foremost 
orators of tho day.
Dr. Mathews prosent connection is 
dean of tho Divinity School, at Chica
go University, a capacity ho has filled 
since 190S. A native of Portland, 
Mo., he was educatod at Colby Col
lege, Newton Thoological College, and 
the University of Berlin. The degree 
of Doctor Divinity has boon conferred 
upon him by Colby Collego, Oborlin 
College and Brown 'University, and 
the Dogroe or LL. D., by Pennsylvania 
Collego.
Sluco 1912 Dr. Mathews has boon 
director of religious work for tho 
Chautauqua Institution of Now York, 
and since 1018 ho has boon a Trustee 
of tho Church Poaco Union which 
was founded by Andrew Carnogio. Ho 
Is also widely known as a writ or of 
many Important sociological and re
ligious hooks, and as an oditor of 
numerous widely road publications.
In Dr. Mathowa, and Dr. Albort 
Shaw, tho editor of tho American Rovlow of Review, who will gly<y I ho 
Commncomont address at the gradua
tion oxorolsos, wo aro. having the op
portunity to hoar two of tho most 
prominent citizens that can ho soourod to grace tho Commoncomont, 
program. Although It Is an estab
lished custom to welcome all stu
dents, whether I hoy aro Seniors or 
not, at tho baccalauroato service, 
thoro always soems to eixlst tho mis
understanding ou tho part of some 
that tho sorvlco Is only for Sonlors. 
On tho contrary, all students aro cor
dially invited to attend,
Program For Senior 
Week Interesting One
Baccalaureate Sermon to Be 
Given By Rev. Mathews
Tho first ovent of Commencement 
Week for tho Class of 1923 will bo 
tho Baccalaureate Sormon at tho Car
nogio Music Hall. Tho address will 
bo delivered by tho Rev. Dr. Shailer 
Mathews, Doan of tho School of Di
vinity, University of Chicago, and 
every Senior who Is to receivo a doc
ument on Commencement Day is ex
pected to bo there. Tho rocoption 
originally planned for this day by Dr.
a prominent writer on the Puppet Walter will bo held in conjunction with 
during his tour years as a studout thc reception on Commoncomont Day
Standing room was at a premium 
when the Fourth Annual Campus 
Week opened with the vaudeville 
show at the Music Hall Thursday 
morning.
The details of the show had been 
kept secret and anxious hundreds wit
nessed the successful efforts of those 
who took part in the program. The 
entertainment was not limited to tal
ent from the Drama Department but 
included numbers by students of Sci
ence and Industries.
The chief fault found with many 
numbers on the program held for the 
show as a wholea trifle long, by 
several otherwise clever and enter
taining numbers lost their effect by 
being drawn out an undue length 
after the climax had been reached, 
and several numbers showed a lack 
of sufficient preparation.
On the whole, though, those who 
took part in tho program are to bo 
commended. Every numbor helped to 
add to a program, which, on the 
whole, not only furnished tho crowd 
with clever entertainment but put tho 
Campus Week crowd In a fraino of 
mind to enjoy what followed.
Mr. Charles Pearson, who received 
his M. A. last year at Carnogio Toch, 
was awarded tho Russell Hewlett 
Memorial Fund, covering a threemonths course of study at Fontaine
bleau, France, under Charles-Marie 
WIdor, by tho Art Society of Pitts
burgh.
Professor Colette was the principili 
speaker at the entertainment given 
by the French Department of the 
North Braddock- High School Mon
day evening, May 14.
year
at Carnegie. Slieetz and Lawrence 
Paquin are the former Tartan edi
tors, while Cassidy filled the role of 
famous puppet writer. Chuck Cooper 
also Initiated, Is at present doing 
active work on the Puppet, while J. 
M. Cooper was advertising editor of 
tho Carnegie Tartan before dropping 
out of school.
The dinner and Initiation was a 
great success, in that an excellent 
feed was enjoyed by all , present, and 
speeches were short.
so that the Baccalaureate Sermon 
will open Commencement Week.
The committee In charge of Com
mencement Week has tried to arrange 
a program which will interest every 
Senior and it is hoped that every 
Senior will attend all of the events. 
Commencament Week tags will be 
distributed this week to those that 
have contributed their assessment and 
these tags will permit the Seniors to 
secure tickets for the different events 
at a reduced price. The program ap
pears on page two.
Janitor Raises Maggy Murphs Ire 
As Sorority Ballots Burn in Fire
After a week of mutual distrust 
and accusation in the Margaret Mor
rison Collego, during which each Mag
gie Murph looked upon her sister as 
a possible crook, tho fair name of 
the school was vindicated. It was 
like this.
Last Wednesday tho girls voted on 
whether or not those dons of iniquity 
known as sororities, would be per
mitted to grow in tho fair halls of 
M. M.
On Thursday no results were post
ed. Consternation and questioning 
on the part of the girls.
Friday no results wero posted. Tho 
votes had disappeared I
Immediately many ugly rumors 
wore launched and floated.
Sororities lmd won and Doan Brood 
had stolen itho votes so that they 
would not go into effect.
The girl having tho ballots had been, 
attacked In /an alloy near desli 
school and the votes lost.
The election had not been holiest 
and the votes had been destroyed in 
order to shield the guilty partyi
The ballots had been found in tho 
car of a certain faculty member who 
was frequently seen in M. M. C.
But this morning the true explana
tion came out. There was no foul, 
deep laid plot on the part of the fac
ulty. There had been nothing rotten 
connected with tho election. It was 
a simple accident, that's all.
It seems that tho girl in charge of 
the ballots had a hot date for that 
night, Sho had to alter the dress sho 
was borrowing, so ho decided to 
count tho ballots tho next duy. But 
alas; sho forgot to put them in tho 
safe.
A Janitor In her dorm, chancing 
upon the proclous ballots, took them. 
Ho did/ not know that ho hold tho 
priceless indications of the Maggie 
Mui/ph mind on tho all important 
qu/stlon of sororltlos. He only real
ised that It was a chilly night and 
that a fire was needed.
The talo is sad. With never a prov
idential mlraclo to stay his hand, the 
janitor dumped the precious slips in 
a fire along with exam papers, hair 
nets, photos, and love letters.
idem

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 1923
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.___________
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ...................................................................... Editor-in-Chief
TelephoneSchenley 0984-J
H. D. SONNEMANN............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND .......................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD................................................................. .........Associate Editor
H. F. SIMPSON......................................................................................... Associate Editor
H. F. DIETER...................................................................................................Associate Editor
MARK S. DOWNES.................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
FRED C. SMITH......................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHiland 811S-J
FRED T. PHELPS........................................................................;...................News Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
H. H. WILSON  .......M........................................................................    Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 9356
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
R. B. KELLER...........................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR...........................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPLIER............................................................................................. Special Writer
W. B. CUNNINGHAM .................................................................. Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
J. C. MAJOR ......................................................................................Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9102 
" " EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Eleanor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning,
L. D. Richards, A. F. Andrews, B. DeMare, E. G. Eigle, A. E. Ivrogh, I. HIsaacs, R. G. Kennedy.
 ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Rossback.
| BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudig, D. Moskovitz, J. W. Netro, P. W. Reilly, H. 
Gibson, P. Edie, R. L. Sandrock, B. Broudy, H. Urschel, D. Ray, E. L. Reeves, 
A. Grodner. _________________________________________________________________
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up. -________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items mint be in the student 
postoffice before 4:30 Friday. ___________________________________________
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.________________________________________
CAMPUS WEEK
The performance at tlie Schenley Theater last Saturday night 
marked the official closing of the Fourth Annual Campus Week. 
There is little need for review here. The celebration itself was all 
that was expected, and in addition we were blessed with wonderful 
weather. Never before have such favorable conditions marked the 
week.
The actual events have been pretty well worked out and stand
ardized in the last two years. The vaudeville show, the Qualification 
Exercises, the Sweepstakes, the Coronation, the Coronation Dance, 
and the Mardi Gras have been established as the principal events. In 
addition a show by the Drama Department is also fixed. This year, 
as usual, we have had some experiments, namely the crowning of 
King Tut, the Girls Skooter race, the Musical Review, and the Greek 
Olympics. Some will be retained, others will not.
Each year new twists will be added to the events; each year the 
general tone of things will improve; each committee will strive to 
equal or better the work of its predecessors; and thus Campus Week 
will continue to improve, forever we hope.
There will doubtless be a hue and cry raised presently about 
something. The Skooter Race, the Girls Track Meet, the show, or 
the alleged wild orgy of the Mardi Gras will probably be dragged 
before the school authorities by some old maids who have lost their 
grip and are trying to remake everything. Most of these reports 
will be erroneus and exaggerated. True, conditions are not yet ideal, 
but they are improving steadily. This years stuff was better in 
every way than that of last year, and next year will probably sur
pass this one.
Let us look behind the laughter and the gaiety of this Campus 
Week, and see what it means beside a vacation of fun for the stu
dents.
We have here a new school. Its alumni are not yet numerous 
nor extremely influential. Its ideals are not yet developed to the 
point where they may be called traditions. We have not yet instilled 
the spirit into all of our students which makes them loyal alumni, 
willing to sacrifice much for their Alma Mater. Let us look at this 
thing honestly, we have not yet been able to instill this spirit. The 
Kilt fund situation furnishes ample proof.
The realization of this lack, and the desire to remedy it is respon
sible for Campus Week. In the year of its conception, it was rushed 
into with little preparation; consequently many mistakes were made. 
Each year since has seen fewer mistakes made, and better events 
added.
The way to appeal to a man spiritually is to please him physical
ly, and it is through the happiness and joy of Campus Week festivi
ties that love for the school is fostered. In this way it touches both 
students and alumni. We urge the alumni to come back, in order 
that we may please them and also appeal to their pride of possession 
by showing them the growth and expansion of the school.
In this way, Campus Week is serving its purpose well. Every 
years more alumni return, taking away with them renewed interest 
in Carnegie Tech, and a firm resolve to keep in touch in order to 
be ready for next year. It is instilling into the students the feeling 
that the school is more than an institution of learning; that it is 
really a fostering mother, showing her children how to play as well 
as making them work. And after Campus Week they go back to the 
studies for the remnant of the year with a better spirit.
As was said above, Carnegie lacks traditions. Campus Week has 
passed the experimental stage. It is no longer a mere holiday; it has 
a definite purpose. As such it should and will become a tradi
tion. We must make every single event of Campus Week so tradi
tional that no one will dare miss it; we must continue to add to the 
number of traditional events like the Call, which take place during 
the week; we must see that the traditions so established shall never 
be torn down by the thoughtlessness of any person or group.
Campus Week is a big proposition, and there is work for every 
single students who is willing to help. Campus Week is the biggest 
simple factor in the future growth and expansion of the school, inas-much as it is the largest factor in inspiring the real Carnegie Spirit 
in the students.
May it continue to promote that spirit among all true Carnegie 
men; so that some day, when we speak of Carnegie men, people will 
think at once of Carnegie Tech, rather than any other school.___________
Student Calendar
THURSDAY, MAY 31
TennisCarnegie vs. Yale ....................-........................................There
PlayThe Two Mrs. Lorings, by Colonel Church.....................
................................................................................. 8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, JUNE 1
TennisCarnegie vs. Bueknell .........................................................There
PlayThe Two Mrs. Lorings................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, JUNE 2
TennisCarnegie vs. Lehigh ...........................................................There
SUNDAY, JUNE 3
RecitalNorman Frauenheim........................................8:15, Music Ilall
MONDAY, JUNE 4
Week of Final Examinations Begins....................................Everywhere
TUESDAY, JUNE 5
PlayThe Two Mrs. Lorings................................8:15, Arts Theater
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 6
PlayTlie Two Mrs. Lorings................................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, JUNE 7, 8, 9
PlayRabbits Feet................................................8:15, Arts Theater
SUNDAY, JUNE 10 
Baccalaureate Sermon, Dr. Shailer Mathews....8:00 P. M.) Music Hall 
MONDAY, JUNE 11
RecitalBy Music Department.....................8:15 P. M., Arts Theater
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13
Laying of Cornerstone of Gymnasium....._...4:30 P. M., Tech Street
RecitalBy Music Department........................8 :lo P. M., Arts Theater
FRIDAY, JUNE 15 
.Commencement Exercises........+........................10:30 A. M., Music Hall
ROAMINS
Isnt it tough to get down to work 
after such a grand and glorious week 
of fun? Roamer knows that everyone 
had a good time the past week for 
that is one of the purposes of Campus 
Week.
With three more weeks of school 
remaining in which to finish the 
semester lets not allow the three days 
of fun to make too much of an impres
sion.
Roamer knows that tlie Plebes will 
enjoy the remainder of the school 
year. No more caps, no more black 
socks and best of all the cigaret may 
be smoked without walking to favor
ite trysting places in Schenley Park.
But to you too Freshmen, Roamer 
wishes to give you a kindly warning 
not to allow these new liberties to de
tract you too much from your studies. 
This the time in the year when every
one is naturally affected by that mys
terious malady Spring.
So lets all get down to real -work 
and finish the year in a blaze of 
study. It will be a lot better to study 
for three weeks now than to study the 
same things over again for a whole 
semester next year.
PLAY THE GAME
As the Senior nears the end of his 
school career and begins to look for
wardrather apprehensively in most 
casesto taking his place among the 
myriad of professions of the world, 
his mood becomes thoughtful.
On entering college, a man usually 
thinks that he has a theory on life 
that, if followed, will bring him suc
cess. As new problems confront him 
and as youthful ideas are crushed, 
new theories the place of the old, and 
the ideas of yesterday are ofttimes al
most like the taunting laughter of 
some monster who seeks to destroy.
Weve watched the masses hurrying 
thither and yon, and wondered if the 
competition isnt too great, and if 
it would not be just as well to for
get those old ideals and settle com
fortable into a convenient rut and let 
the work of building up be borne by 
someone else. Even the strong man 
thinks thusat timos.
But though despair may haunt us, 
success may seem like another air 
castle, and life like an unsolvable 
math problem, the strong man never 
quits.
It is easy to go forward when every
thing is going right and when theres 
money in the pocket and your grades 
are honor roll high; but start down 
grade once and its hard to stop and 
right-about-face for the climb back.
Weve lived in a little world of our 
own here on the campus and if we 
play the game hero and win, we cast 
hold our own in the outside world.
At the begiuning and the end of the 
terms, it is eusy to work, for our goals 
are near. But out in the stream where 
the water is swift, its easy to 
loaf, for the goals are far away and 
the work is very hard. Then we must 
call on our heart and nerve and sinew 
to fight the hardest.
Play up! Play tho game every min
ute and you cant lose; but stop a mo
ment and you are lost.
Theories have their place and serve 
their term but the way up is through 
steady plodding workand the goal 
is always worth while.
Georgia Tech.
THE SWING OF THE PENDULUM
That the old order changetli yield
ing place to now is as true today as 
it was in the ibrave days when King 
Arthur consigned his sword to tbe 
magic mere. This is especially so in 
educational matters. The ancient re
gime when a mans educuation was 
judged by his ability to resuscitate a 
dead language in ponderous quotations 
is one of tlie many ways in which 
God no longer fulfills himself.
The new ideals and standards of 
education, however, while undoubted
ly much preferable to the deadened 
classicism of the past, is in danger 
of running to the opposite extrema. 
The pendulum may swing too far. 
The college graduate of today is ex
pected to be a competent business 
man, an accomplished technician, a 
successful professional man. In many 
cases the whole educational machin
ery of a university is concentrated 
on turning out highly specialized cogs 
in the wheels of industry, and the 
true object of education seems to be 
lost sight of.
The object of education may be to 
turn out men who are learned in 
particular branch of knowledge, but 
its greater end should be to develop 
men who are gentlemenversed in 
courtesy, sensitive to the ever pres
ent appeal of beauty in art and na
ture and the common little things of 
every day. The educated man is a 
man of honor, a good friend, and a 
good sport. And he is, too, a man 
intelligently interested in political 
questions of the day, and in the in
sistent problem of social justice. 
McGill Daily.
KAPPA SIGMA CAR WINS
ANNUAL SWEEFSTAKES
(Continued From Page Ono)
Tlie cars finished as follows: No.
19, Kappa Sigma., first; No. 8, Theta 
.Xi, second; No. 3, S. A. E., third, 
and No. 10, Delta XI, fourth. The 
winning team was comprised of E. R. 
Roller, driver, and D. V. Beeder, W.
D. Shelton, P. A. Morrison and H.
C. Wurtenberger, horses.
The S. A. E. and Kappa Sigma 
cars were awarded honorable men
tion in the design contest.
Because of the elimination of ireak 
designs, the cars this year were a 
big improvement over those of last 
year. Racy designs, minimum weight 
and durability characterized the cars 
entered in last weok' veepstakes.
Commencement Week Program
SUNDAY, JUNE 10, 1923
8:00 P.M.Baccalaureate Sermon, Carnegie Music Hall.
MONDAY, JUNE 11, 1923
11:00 A.M.Baseball Game, Senior Women vs. Senior Men, Tech 
Field.
1:00 P.M.Class Meeting, Union.
3:30 P.M.Baseball Game, Forbes Field, Pittsburgh vs. New 
York.
8:00 P.M.Reception and Garden Party by Dean Brown for Se
nior Women, Mellon Hall.
TUESDAY, JUNE 12, 1923
10:30 A.M.Senior Voyage and Picnic, Homer Smith. Boat leaves 
from Wood and Water streets.
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 13, 1923
10:00 A.M.Mens Swimming Party, Pittsburgh Athletic Associa
tion.
1:00 P.M.Womens Luncheon, Schenley Hotel.
4:30 P.M.Laying of Cornerstone of Gymnasium.
7:00 P.M.Mens Senior Banquet, Lincoln Club, Craft avenue.
8:00 P.M.Womens Theater Party, Davis Theater.
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 1923
10:00 A.M.Women's Swimming Party, Rodef Shalom Pool, Fifth 
avenue and Morewood street.
8:00 P.M.The Shoemakers Holiday, presented by Drama 
Students, Design School Open Air Theater.
FRIDAY, JUNE 15, 1923
10:00 A.M.Commencement Exercises, Carnegie Music Hall. 
12:30 P.M.Reception by President, Trustees, Directors and 
Deans, Foyer, Carnegie Music Hall.
9:00 P.M.Commencement Ball for Seniors and Juniors of the 
Four Schools, Foyer, College of Fine Arts.
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
Honorary Societies 
Elect New Pledges
Many Are Honored at Call 
Day Kxercises
The men and women of Carnegio 
who have excelled this year in activ
ities, character, leadership and schol
arship were rewarded last Thursday 
by being pledged to tho various hon
orary fraternities on the campus.
The first to be called were those 
elected to Mortar Board, the Girls 
Senior National Honorary Fraternity. 
They are:
Anna Kirker 
Blair Jessop 
Jane Markell 
Helen B. Johnson 
Thelma Leatherman 
Dorothy Chalmers 
Lillian Greenwalt 
Bertha Osmond 
Eleanor Mecklenburg 
Mary I-Iolllg 
Martha Zimmerman 
Eleanor Reismeyer 
Frances McGlymonds 
Elizabeth Burkhardt.
The National Literary Honorary 
Fraternity 1b PI Delta Epsilon. Thoso 
to be pledged to this fraternity are: 
W. C. Cunningham 
V. C. Olsen 
J. R. Reed 
W. Kaufman 
J. C. Major 
Wtiltor Lymp,D.
G. E. Slye.
Those-to be; elected to Tau Sigma 
Delta, tho Architectural and Allied 
Arts Honorary Fraternity are:
Prof. E. M. Ashe 
Katherine Blsomann 
Norwoodl Robeson 
Alfred D. Rold 
Teasdale Barney 
Mildred Abel
The Senior National Honorary Fra
ternity is Dragon. Next years Dra
gons are:
G. L. Comfort 
Frank Gore
C. N. IIolline;worth 
W. B. Cunningham 
(Howard Dylceman 
Sam Dylco 
Elilia Robertson 
W. H. Ryan 
J. A. Robertson 
Teasdale Barney 
Earl Gross 
Charles Jeffers.
The pledges to Delta Skull, Junior 
Honorary are:
E. C. Frazier 
Milo Matter 
J. R. Reed
G. E. Slye
H. E. Hughes
E. M. Gilbert 
M. D Kallfelz
D. A. Gardner
H. P. Rassbach
A. S. Andrews
O. B. Newman.
Those to be -elected to Druids, 
Sophomore Honorary are:
M. N. Goodwin
D. V. Beede 
M. M. Mohrman
G. H. Lamb 
J. Seaman 
Max Bastion
F. O. Loveland 
C. R. Wilson 
J. P. Rei l 
J. T. OConnor 
Joe Christoff
B. J. Kristoff.
MEMORIAL STARTED
FOR PROF. KELLER
(Continued from Page One) 
sistlng of Professors N. C. Riggs, C. 
C. Leeds, and H. S. Llghtcap.
This committee has been authorized 
to solicit funds from the faculty, 
alumni, and students for the purchase 
of additional books. It Is thought 
best that the purchase of books be left 
In the hands of the committee that 
duplication may be avoided, where it 
Is undesirable. It Is planned to place 
only mathematical and scientific 
books in the collection.
Some subscriptions have already 
been received, and many of Professor 
Kellers former students and asso
ciates will no doubt be glad of this op
portunity to recognize in a useful way 
his long and constructive service and 
friendship. Anyone wishing to do so 
may contribute by placing the funds 
in the hands ol any member of the 
committee.
Architects Win Four 
Medals in Judgement
W. C. Pyle Wins Scarab 
Prize of $50
The Architectural Department made 
a good showing last week in tho 
judgment at New York. Tho problem 
was A Small Opera House. Tho 
two first medals given and two of the 
five second medals were taken by 
Carnegie men- There were no 
strings. The results were:
First medal, Karl Snyder and P. C. 
McLean.
Second medal, H. C. Brockman and 
J. N. Franklin.
First mention, Bane, Tross, Blink, 
Conshllne, Delo, Kell, McGorvey, MeIvoe. Patterson, S.taples.
The Scarab Prize consisting of $50 
was won by W. C. Pyle.
V. IT. Stromquist took first, montlon 
and Mnrtln, second mention In tho 
Emerson Prize.
Mid West Club Holds 
Final Luncheon Thurs.
Immediately aftor tho vaudovlllo of 
last Thursday was ovor, a largo group 
of students gathorod at tho Hotel 
Schonloy for a lunchoon with friends 
and a mooting of tho Mkl-Wost Club. 
Only ono alumnus was with us, Mr. 
Watt of Indiana, Eng. 22. SInco tho 
club Is now only In its second year 
this is after all a very good showing, 
and wo lmvo ovory reason to hope 
that wo shall next year hnvo a much 
largor group of alumni and formor 
studonts at this lunchoon which It 
was docldod to malco an annual affair 
during Campus Woolc.
Aftor a very satisfying lunch had 
boon sorvod, tho retiring president, 
Andy Olsen, called tho mooting to 
order and announcod that tho pins ordorod at the last meeting wore now 
ready for distribution.
Elootlons for next yoar woro thon 
hold with tho following results: Mr.
W ,K. Joffrloss, Minnesota, prosldont, 
and Mr. Fred Travis, Minnesota, 
treasurer. By a unanimous voto, 
Miss Botty Deo, Nobraska, was re
quested to retain hor oillce as socrotary of tho organization.
A rising voto of thanks was given 
to the retiring officers of the club, 
whereafter the meeting adjourned 
and everyone hastened to tho field 
for tho qualification exercises.
CHARLES PEARSON 21 
WINS SCHOLARSHIP
Charles A. H. Pearson, of 91G Cedar 
avenue, North Side, a post graduate 
student of music at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, has been award
ed a scholarship to study abroad this 
summer, by the Art Society of Pitts
burgh. According to an announce
ment, the award was made possible 
through the accumulation of the Hewlitt Memorial Fund, which is con
trolled by the Art Society.
According to the terms of the 
scholarship, Mr. Pearson will study 
for three months this summer at the 
Fontainbleau School of Music at Fontainbleau, France. His tuition fee 
and all expenses will be met by the 
terms of the scholarship.
The French school is one of the 
most famous musical educational in
stitutions in the world, and here Mr. 
Pearson will study under the direct 
supervision of M. Vidor, the celebrat
ed organist.
Mr. Pearson is widely known as an 
organist throughout tills district. He 
is at present organist and choir di
rector of the Second U. P. Church in 
Wllklnsburg, and assistant to Dr. 
Charles Heinroth, organist at the 
Third Presbyterian Church, on Fifth 
avenue, Pittsburgh. Ho was grad
uated from the Department of Music 
at Carnegie Tech with degree of A. B. 
In 1921, and last year, ho was award
ed his degree as Master of Arts In 
Music, being tho first Carnegio Tech 
student to be so honored.
On next Monday night, In Carnegio 
Music Hall, Mr. Pearson wlll glvo a 
public recital, under the auspices of 
Carnegio Institute of Technology. No 
tickets will be required to attend.
RIOTOUS BOURGEOI8E
CELEBRATE MARDI GRAS
(Continued From Page On.) 
tlcipated had the most Joyous time 
of their life, those that did not were 
amused or cynical, but influenced by 
jealousy.
May we have many more Mardi 
Gras and may all good prohibition 
agents follow their regular beat.
Tho Painting and Illustration De
partment offers for your perusal:
Lloyd Weninger, Commercial Work, 
Sandusky, Ohio;
Murna Dunklo working in Now 
York, mural decoration;
Mildred Floyd, toncher of art at 
Cathedral School;
Arthur Ivnorr, artist for Modern Art 
Servieo, Now York;
Valentino dOrgrls with H. W. 
Young, Now York (stained glass);
Margaret Ruse working for Ezra 
Winter, Now York on mural work;
Brady MoSwlgan, Pitt studios, 
Pittsburgh. Art Manager of tho 
"Winged Foot;
Esther Topp, teacher in Depart
ment of Painting and Illustration, Car
negio Tech;
Malcolm Purcell, painterlias a 
portrait of Mrs. Dllworth In the pres
ent International exhibition;
Forrost Crooks illustrating for Sat
urday Evening Post and othor maga
zines. Summer home, Cnrvervlllo, 
Pa.;
Mildred Taber, Paris, lately mar
ried there to Frank Keally, graduate 
of the Architectural Department. She 
is a good painter;
Porter Woodruff is tho Paris agent 
for Vogue. Mr. and Mrs. Hamersclilag gave him and four other Car
negie studonts a luncheon last sum
mer in Paris;
Woodman Thompson, now in New 
York designing scenicsets for thea
ters. One of tho present shows now 
there presents Ills handiwork; , ,
Graco Garland, now Mrs. A. IT. Gilkison, drawing syndicate material. 
She took tho water color prize at tho 
last show of tho associated artists.
All of which goos to show that the 
P. & I. Department of Carnogio Tech 
Is not such a bad place after all. 
Rather on tho contrary, judging from 
the typo of work some of its grad
uates are doing, it comos up to tho 
high standard as set by tho rest of tho 
departments. Indeed, Cnrnegie Toch
SEVEN HUNDRED
LOYAL ALUMNI
FEED SATURDAY
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
dents and graduates back liomo on 
the old stamping grounds.
Entertainment for the luncheon was 
furnished by studonts, while music 
cotno from still another group of stu
dents, who luivo banded thomsolvos 
together for tho purpose of producing 
good music for various and sundry 
purposes, mainly dancing. They aro 
known as iho Colloglato Imps, and 
as musical Imps, they are right tlioro. 
Tills statomont can bo further tost Illod by tho many thousand dancoro 
who hava danced to their musical 
strains In tho Langloy Lab. Tho 
thanks of tho fudoratlon Is hereby 
glvon them for tholr pleasing ontor* 
talnmont.
S. G, Little, M0, occupied1 tho chair 
ol! master of ceremonies, and handled 
tho toast slinging In groat stylo. His 
opening gun came In an expression 
of appreciation for tho undor-grad* 
uute labors attendant to Campus 
Woolc. Duo thanks and all o that 
woro glvon unstintedly by him, all of 
which was vociferously applauded by 
the sovon hundrod Carnogio men and 
women prosont.
Dr. Bakor woloomod tho clansmen, 
and dwelt shortly upon tho typo of 
broader education that It had bocomo 
tho policy of Carnogio Toch to offer 
Its studonts. Col. Church, chairman 
of tho Board of Director of tho Insti
tute of Technology spoko upon tho 
groat care takon In ohoslng Dr. Baker 
prosldont, and expressed tho utmost 
faith In his ability to guide tho doittlnlos of Carnogio Toch to tho highest 
pinnacle of achievement.
Dean Brood, who is by tho way, tho 
only original member on tho adminis
trative i'orco, who Is still in her pros
ont position except Mr. Orbln, who 
has held the position of buslnoss man
ager from tho boglnnlng. Miss Brood 
spoko upon tho part that the girls are 
taking In tho affairs of tho school, 
and commended very highly the equal
ity in everything connoctlng with both 
the student and buslnoss affairs of tho 
institute with which the girls aro 
treated. Sho mentioned that In no 
school that she knows of does such a 
condition exist. But, one fact was 
brought out. and that is that quite of
ten Margaret Morrison Is referred to 
as apart from Carnegie Tech, by those 
who do not know. Her point is good 
Margaret Morrison is a part of Car
negie Tech, and never should be even 
spoken of as not being.
Buddy Overend followed with a 
short speech, especially made so on 
account of convictions, in which lie 
proposed six members of the faculty 
as honorary members of the Federa
tion on account of their devoted serv
ices to Carnegie since its inception. 
The gathering passed upon them 
unanimously. They are, William 
Pfouts, Willibald Trinlcs, A. J. Wurts,
C. C. Leeds, J. H. James and G. H. 
Follows.
A speech on the gymnasium fol
lowed. Mr. ITornbostel, the architect, 
premised that the building would be 
one in which every student and 
alumnus could point to with pride. He 
also brought out the fact that the 
building Is to be built by a Carnegie 
Tech graduate, and that many of his 
assistants are also Carnegie men, thus 
assuring (he school of the greatest 
care in the building operations. Mr. 
Slesel is tho contractor whoso bid 
was accepted,
Tho lunchoon closed with a few 
for.gs, and the Alma Mater.
Thus ended the greatest alumni 
lunchoon of all timesYETI
is to bo congratulated on having such 
a fine department.
This department is of service to tho 
city of Pittsburgh, Likewise, the dif
ferent student functions could hardly 
do without it. For instance, when the 
Senior Ball Committee, or the Junior 
prom Committee, or any other committeo, for nil o that, is in need of 
posters, where do they go? The P. 
& I, department, of course! Or, sup
pose tho Red Cross is putting over a 
drivethey come to tho Painting & 
Illustration department of our collego 
for their posters.
All of which reflects quite a bit of 
credit upon Carnegie Tech.
Which reminds us further that''pub
licity and advertisement are the life 
of a business enterprise. Using a now 
definitionpublicity is the education 
of the people to tho good of an enter
prise or product. This is dono through 
tho originality of tho advertising cam
paign. Posters are tho oldest form 
of advertisement. The more original 
and conspicuous they are the better 
tho results.
Carnogio Tech P. & I. students are 
original. They have to be, or the 
professors will reject their efforts.
As one looks through the advertise
ment section of a big magazine, the 
ones which strike his eyes quickest 
aro those with drawings. Merely a 
word advertisement will not cause you 
to tarry a minute. An illustration 
must be there.
Likewise, with a storypictures 
are often the sole cause of you read
ing it.
So the painters and illustraters are 
pretty important.
Advertisement and business go 
hand In hand.
Yours for a better known Carnegie 
Tech.
CAMPUS WEEK
IMPROVING AS
THE YEARS PASS
(Continued From Page Ono) 
fewer accidents occurred, and all the 
entrants were racing cars, no freak 
models being ontorod.
The girls champion tonnls matches 
and tho Music Box Rovue woro good 
though poorly attended, possibly tho 
call of tho wonderful weather being 
too strong.
A burlesquo, Tho Crowning of King 
Tut, presented by tho Druids pro
coded tho Mardi Gras. T|io Mardi 
Gras Itsolf cannot bo criticized, it dallghtod ovoryono oxoopt tho grumpy 
conservative of the Victorian ora and 
tho janitor who lost four good hours 
sloop,
Tho Varslty-Alloghony Tonnls 
match proved merely another victory 
for Carnogio Tech and was a suitable 
opening for a porfoot day. Tho Alum
ni Luncheon and tho Garden Party at 
Mellon Hall woro both HAVEVYYVO and 
tho Groolc Olympic, another now fouturo, attracted many.
Rabbi t-Feot, tho linaio of Campus 
Woolc, UAO tho groatost ol! nil. Tho 
cant wan excellent and tho plot wati 
oven hotter, A most, fitting clono for 
suoli a guy, carefree carnival.
Much ol! tho success muni, bo attrib
uted to tho full program; not dull list
less Intervals with nothing to do, but 
something of real live Interest ovory 
moment. Best of all was tho weather 
and wo horoby unite to giro a voto 
of thanks to Jupltor Pluvlus for his 
ubstlnonco.
Tho sympathy of Iho faculty Is ex
tended to Mr. Walter 13. Jones of tho 
College of Industries, whose mother 
died Friday morning, May 18, at her 
homo in Wllklnsburg.
ProfoBor and Mrs. Pago entertain
ed tho staff of tho Secretarial Studies 
Department at brldgo on Friday 
night last at their homo.
Dr. Baker wlll give a talk by radio 
for the Westlnghouso Htatlon Wed
nesday evening on The Curneglo 
Institute of Technology in Relation to 
the Community, as part of the WostInghouse program "Boost Pittsburgh." 
Dr. Baker also spoke before the Co
operative Club of Pittsburgh, of 
which Mr. Clarence Overend is presi
dent, at the William Penn Hotel, May 
15, and will attend the banquet of 
the retiring staff of the Carnegie Tar
tan at the University Club this even
ing.
LINES FROM
FAMOUS LIBERALS
The volcc of ono who goes be
fore, to make the paths of June 
more beautiful, Is thine SWeet 
May.Helen Hunt Jackson.
First Unitarian Church
Morewood and Ellsworth Aves. 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor.
immitiiittnntmiuimmttiiiummixinz 
Bellefield Presbyterian Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAM,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class ...........................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00 P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00 P.M. 
WELCOMEl TECH STUDENTS
John Hancock made the. ileruuur* 
famoni Irj ilunlnu tho 
Declaration of lndc[H-.ndf.nce
THE SIGNATURE has been 
made a Household Word by the
iHtiunAuccCom'A
Chartered In 1862, In Slxty>ono 
Ycnro it lino Brown to be tho
Juirgcst Fiduciary Inst itution 
in Netv England
An Endowment or Incomc-for-Llfo 
Policy la the Pollcyholdcrs
Dclaration of Independence

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
FIVE MORE GIRLS 
ARE AWARDED C
Eleanor Craver Again Wins 
Recognition of Athletic 
Skill
GIRLS ARE FAST 
ON CINDER PATH
Seniors Nose Out Plebes For 
First Honors; Design 
Ties Juniors
Five girls have earned over a hun
dred) points since tlie printing of the 
list of points in the last issue of 
The Carnegie Tartain, and have, 
therefore, been awarded the Womens' 
Athletic Association C. It can he 
recalled that Eleanor Craver was the 
first girl to earn this insignia of 
athletic prowess this year. Miss 
Craver won hers through exceptional 
work on the basket ball team, as well 
as taking part In interclass basket 
ball, volley ball and hockey. As an 
all-round athletic girl, she takes a 
back seat to very few.
The remaining four girls who have 
also won their letter are: Ruth
Snyder, Ray Fine, Gertrude Lyons 
and Helen Macrum, all of whom are 
Seniors. These girls are especially 
active, and take part in practically 
all branches of sports, and are strong 
participants of mass athletics for the 
girls.
The requirements for earning the 
Womens' Athletic Association C 
are quite rigid, necessitating an ac
tive participation in almost every 
sport. While membership of varsity 
teams gives a large number of points, 
by far the greatest number are earned 
in inter-class games which are con
ducted in all sports.
The swimming meet held last Mon
day no doubt added sufficient points 
to those held by other girls to award 
a few more Cs. If this turned out 
to be the case, their names will be 
printed in these columns next week 
when the final issue of The Carnegie 
Tartan will appear.
The girls track meet was held 
Thursday afternoon at the comple
tion of the ceremony of the burial of 
Plebe Regulations. The afternoon 
was very warm but the girls put 
forth their best efforts to make the 
meet a success.
The meet was under the direction 
of Helen McCrum of Forbes Hall. Be
ing the first of its kind at Carnegie 
Tech, it attracted a great deal of at
tention, especially among the M. M. 
and Art School girls.
The Seniors romped off with the 
honors by scoring 14 points, the 
Freshmen second with 12 points. The 
Juniors and Design broke even each 
scoring 10 points. The Sophomores 
were at the small end of the string 
with only S points to their credit.
Some very good times were made 
in this meet and although no records 
werei broken) it brought out some 
good material.
AWARD OF DISPUTED POINTS
IN FRAT. MEET UNDECIDED
At the time of going to press, The 
Tartan had not been informed con
cerning the final decision of the 
judges in regard to five disputed
points scored by Delta Upsilon in
the Inter-fraternity track meet Satur
day. If the points are awarded to 
D. U., this fraternity will have
points, and Sigma Nu will rate sec
ond with 32. Otherwise Sigma Nu 
will take first place, with D. U. sec
ond and S. A. E. third.
TRAVEL MADE EASY
Courteous clerks who 
know every lane of travel 
the world over are at 
your disposal at our 
Steamship Deaprtment.
Select your destination 
and we will do everything 
in our power to help you 
reach it in comfort and 
safety.
Mellon National Bank
Oliuer Jlue.& Stmthfield
Wlmt are you doing, Pyth 
writing Her another letter?
Pythias
Nonot this time. Something - 
more to the point, as one would 
say. Im writing the Pater to 
send me a dozen Eldorado pencils. 
They are all sold out down at 
the store.
Uie master dtutinpendi'
TENNIS TEAM IMPAIRED 
BY ONE YEAR RULE
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
A FACULTY RECOMMENDATION
At the meeting of the General Faculty, held May 9, it was voted that 
head coaches of major sports be members of the faculty, paid by the Insti
tute, be in residence the full year and have the same permanence of appoint
ment as regular faculty members.
This is an ideal worth aiming for, but under present conditions it seems 
to us utterly impractical. The school cannot afford to hire coaches of the 
required caliber and keep them busy part of the year as P. T. instructors.
It is true that Alanzo Stagg and Jock Sutherland' hold college positions 
the year round. But the former has made a life work of athletic direction 
and is employed by one of the wealthiest colleges in the world. Jock is a 
professor of dentistry when football season is over.
In view of these facts, we do not believe that Carnegie Tech is in a 
position to consider such a proposition at the present time.
RIGHT THIS WAY, FOLKS
Event Number two on the program, ladies and gentlemen, is a plea in 
behalf of the poor, down-trodden assistant managers. To get down to plain 
facts, doesnt it strike you a little unjust that men who aim to some day be 
managers of one of our varsity teams should actually receive very little 
training in the art of taking care of a team. The complaint is frequently 
heard that the assistant manager gets to do nothing but the dirty work con
nected with his particular sport. To use a specific example, the track man
agers this Spring have been kept so constantly busy with the care of the 
track and other equipment that the men on the squad have not always re
ceived the proper attention.
Naturally, some one must do the heavy work. But would it not be 
practical to employ a man to work constantly to keep the track or the courts, 
or whatever the piece de resistance may be, in condition. This would re
lease some of the assistant managers from the mechanical or detail features 
of the work, and give them more time to really get acquainted with the 
duties of managership.
This does not claim to be an original suggestion, but comes from inves
tigation into the methods in force at first-class prep schools and other col
leges. It may never come about at Carnegie, and it is possible that the 
writers view is a trifle prejudiced. But we offer the suggestion for what 
it may be worth, in the hope that it may be at least considered by the 
powers that be.
MANY NEW COLLEGIATE 
CONFERENCES FORMED
Now that the 1923 tennis team has 
earned its laurels in the tri-state dis
trict and has been strengthened by 
every match at home or away, it is 
ready to tear away to tackle eastern 
netmen.
The worst part about the eastern 
contests is the fact that Carnegie 
Tech must abide by the one year play
ing rule. This rule will impair the 
structure of the well balanced team 
to the extent that the tri-state honors 
already conferred upon the boys may 
be overshadowed by eastern defeats 
and make the champioship seem less 
imposing than it actually is.
At any rate the Plaid team and 
manager left Pittsburgh last evening 
for State College, and today they will 
stand the testa team stript of its 
ineligibles and yearlings against the 
Lion brand of court artists.
State College has a racquet team 
not easy to down, and should one look 
at the comparative scores of matches 
of each team, he would find them on a 
fifty-fifty chance against victory.
Tomorrow, the Skibo tennis wielders will arrive at New Haven to en
counter the hardest match of the sea
son. Yale undoubtedly has the edge 
on most of her opponents, but in spite 
of her traditional prestige on the 
courts, the Scotch lads will remem
ber the old adage Nothing to lose 
and everything to win. The Plaid 
football team put a scare into the 
Bulldog ranks last September but 
should the netmen ever win a few of 
the six matches of the Eli contest 
they will feel well satisfied. Among 
the players on the Boola-boola team 
are three of the highest ranking In
tercollegiate netmen in the country, 
so there will be no disgrace in the 
defeat from the hands of the Yale 
wielders, who recently took over Har
vard, 2-0,
The Lehigh match was cancelled 
and in its place Bucknell will be met 
at Lewisburg, Pa., on Friday or Sat
urday of this week. Should the ten
nis team break even on this trip 
that would be more than could be ex
pected of them.
SCANDAL!
It lias come to the notice of the guardian of this enlightened column that 
unfair tactics were practiced in the Aluinni-Varsity tennis match last week. 
Manager Eddie Hirsch, desperate at the sight of the row of goose eggs 
chalked up against his motley crew, offered bribery to any of his men who 
should cop a doubles match. Under the inducement of ice cream cones, Jack 
Beatty and Steve Stockslager were victorious over Connie Schwartz and 
Hausauer. The Beatty-Stockslager outfit is famous in Sjkibo history for 
having lost only two matches the whole time they have been playing to
gether. Manager Hirsch claims a moral victory.
I STRAW HATS 1
XBONARPHELPS X
X v Best under the sun
| MALLORY |
| ACCOR |
| SCHENLEY |
I DAVIES & HUGHES f
OAKLAND'S MENS STORE X 
! 3615 FORBES STREET *
X Next to Strand Theater
t OPEN EVENINGS j
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
MORE VARSITY ATHLETICS
We think that about all that was lacking to make It a perfect Campus 
Week was varsity athletics. A track meet with a good school, or a Plahl 
baseball team in action, would have attracted a large crowd. We know of 
several Alumni from 'way back who went to Forbes Field Saturday after
noon, just because of the lack of Varsity competition.
The Inter-Fraternity meet was run off darn well and brought out some 
high-class talent. But the average Alumnus, back for a holiday and to renew 
old memories, wants to see the teams of his Alma Mater fighting as in days 
of old, to hear the old cheers resounding across the campus, to feel once more 
the thrill that comes only from the physical strife between rival schools.
THE LIONS SHARE
Penn State seems to be the favorite in the Pitt Inter-Collegiato track 
carnival to be held on Schenley Oval Saturday afternoon. This moot is the 
biggest event left on the Spring Sports card and will attract delegations 
from Pitt, Penn State, West Virginia, W. & J., Carnegie Tech and several others.
DID YOU EVER STOP TO CONSIDER
That the starting of the new gym is goi^g to make a lot of campus 
humorists and editorial writers cast about for new targets at which to level 
their lances?
A STAG AFFAIR
We are pleased to announce that Alanzo A. Stagg, dlroctor of athlotlcs 
at Chicago University, and former mentor of our own Wally, will bo the 
principal speaker at the laying of the cornerstono of our new acquisition.
7 A StTART IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
The golf enthusiasts have not met with any unusual success In their 
efforts to have a team organized and recognized. But wo bollove that the 
Scotch pastime will gain strength here as ip other colleges, and eventually 
be a sport of major importance. Next year we hope to see baseball re
vived, a real golf team started, and with the completion of the new gym, 
swimming, boxing, wrestling, perhaps oven fonclng and gymnastic competi
tion started. Carnegie can stand more athletics.
IN CONCLUSION
We just want to point out that another Trl-State Championship has been annexed by the tennis team.
PLAID TENNIS HISTORY 
INCLUDES 100 ALUMNI
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
I: Flowers for Every Occasion
C Gift Boxes
[ Corsages
:* Plants
 Decorations
C Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the 
 quality and service.
A. W. Smith Company
I; LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET 
Phone Smithfield 327.
 Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
W"X"X"m
After an attempt for two years to 
organize a tennis team, an unofficial 
team was organized in 1911 and they 
played one match which resulted in a 
tie with W. & J. This team was com
posed of Walter G. Floor, Captain; 
Forrest W. Manker, Manager; Geo. M. 
Douthett, Edward E. Duff, Jr., and Al
fred D. Beeken, Jr.
Later in the fall of 1911, the Ath
letic Board of Control of Carnegie 
Tech adopted tennis as a minor sport 
and awarded insignia to the 1912 team 
with Walter G. Flood, Manager and 
Captain, Geo. Douthett, John W. Sav
age, and A. D. Beeken. This team took 
second place in the Intercollegiate 
Tournament of Western Pennsyl
vania, which was won by Pitt.
Another letter man, William Miller, 
was added to the 1913 team of which 
Geo. Douthett was captain. At that 
time the insignia was a CTC. That 
years record of four matches includ
ed a tie with Penn State and a vic
tory over W. & J.
Two new men, F. E. Schucliman and 
R. S. Wilson, Manager, graced the 
1914 team, but not one of the var
sity men remained as a nucleus for 
the 1915 teamall having graduated. 
Tennis had to be reorganized and a 
city man, Harry Seymour, who has 
always lent a willing hand at tennis 
anywhere and especially at Carnegie 
Tech, volunteered to aid the boys as 
their coach. C. F. Steen was captain; 
A. C. Sprague was manager, and V. 
W. Bihlman, F. L. English, J. P. Davis, 
and K. IS. Henning made up the team.
With Harry Seymour as coach and 
promoter, and J. P. Davis as captain 
for the next two years, a fairly well 
balanced quartet of racqueteers was 
placed on the courts. The enrollment 
of these two teams was: P. W. Emmel, Manager; J. D. Beatty, M. Mur
phy, J. F. Meredith, R. W. Spring, 
Manager; C. F. Steen, and J. J. Kossler. Although the 1916 wielders did 
achieve victories over Penn State and 
Syracuse, a rainy season prevented 
the playing of many matches.
There was no team in 1918, but 
with the spring of 1919 came Colonel 
John C. Brooks to succeed Harry Sey
mour as coach. A tennis association 
was formed and the present six courts 
were constructed to take the place of 
the ones which had been on the site 
of the Langley Laboratory. Out of 
eight matches played, this team lost 
only one.
The best team that ever represent
ed Carnegie Tech on the courts, and 
the first team to capture the trl-stato 
colleglato championship, was the 1920 
one which let no opponent, with the 
exception of Michigan, take more than 
one match In any dual contest staged 
either at home or away.
A team worth more than casual 
mention, the 1921 netmen, retained the 
tri-state honorslosing but one match 
out of fifteen played. While the 1922 
team played only eleven matches, it 
won eight, tied two, and lost one, thus 
again retaining the tri-state collegiate 
championship.
In the fall of 1922, Colonel Brooks 
left Carnegie, and Churck Garland of 
the champion 1920 American Davis 
Cup team volunteered his services in 
coaching this years squad, which todate has either won or tied all 
matches in the tri-state group. Con
nie T. Schwartz is captain of the 
team and I-I. Clifford Kreisle is man
ager.
Tennis teams records since 1918:
1919 team won 6, tied 1, lost 1 
John D. Beatty, Captain; Francis J. 
Nuttall, Manager; E. S. Stockslager, 
D. B. Gathrop, C. J. Copley, J. C. 
Harkness.
1920 team won 12, lost 1E. S. 
Stockslager, Captain; E. F. Hirsch, 
Manager; J. P. Davis, J. D. Beatty, 
P. P. Marshall, Robert Schmertz.
1921 team won 10, tied 4, lost 1 
John C. Harkness, Captain; Louis D. 
Pitts, Manager; John Keil, Vernon S. 
Neville, Robt. W. Schmertz, C. T. 
Schwartz.
1922 team won 8, tied 2, lost 1 
Vernon S. Neville, Captain; F. I. 
Smith, Manager;. Vernon S. Neville, 
John Keil, C. T. Schwartz, C. J. Cop
ley.
That the time is not far off when 
practically all of the colleges and uni
versities in the country will bo mem
bers of groups or conferences, formed 
along geographical or natural rivalry 
lines for the purpose of safeguarding 
athletics from some of the evils which 
are threatening to promote mutual 
understanding and uniform rules, and 
to engender a better feeling among 
the various student bodies, is the 
opinion of athletic leaders.
Reports which have been received 
at the offices of the National Colle
giate Athletic Association covering 
the activities of the past year show 
that many new groups were formed 
during 1922 and that others are in 
process of formation. At the same 
time there appears to be a steady 
growth toward faculty control of ath
letics, improvement of eligibility 
standards, discouragement of prosely
tizing and betting, and a general 
movement In favor of the idea of full
time coaches, with faculty ranking, as 
opposed to seasonal coaches, who, up 
to a few years ago, were in the big 
majority.
At the present time, the only sec
tion wlieVe the conference plan has 
not been adopted is the east, where 
the larger institutions, exclusive of 
Harvard, Princeton and Yale, have op
posed the conference idea, largely on 
the basis that such a plan would tend 
to cramp their freedom so far as 
schedule-making goes. There is, how
ever, a feeling that sooner or later, 
these institutions, such as Columbia, 
Cornell, Dartmouth, Colgate, Syra
cuse, Pennsylvania, Penn State, Pitts
burgh, Lafayette, W. & J. and others 
will fall into line.
In those conferences that are al
ready in existence, the majority havo 
the one-year freshman rule and In 
those Institutions that use freshmen 
on various teams, the tondency is to 
do away with the practice In the near 
future. Many havo direct faculty con
trol ovor athlotlcs and also coaches 
who are members of the faculty and 
employed on a full-time basis. Ac
cording to G. L. Meylan, of Columbia 
university, who is supervisor of the 
Second district, comprising Now 
York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and 
West Virginia, the chief sourco of 
trouble at the presont time Is a wide
spread tendency to offer inducements 
to preparatory and high school stu
dents to matrlculato in certain insti
tutions.
In ono district, the Fourth, com 
prising the states of Kentucky, Ten 
nosseo, Missouri, Louisiana, Georgia 
Alabama, Florida and South Carolina, 
21 colleges and universities are mombora of the southern, lntorcolloglato 
conforonco, tho fundaiiicjital princi
pals of which Include a gentlemen's 
agreement that membors of tjJje conferonco consldor it a friendly not If 
other membors furnish information at 
any time concerning tho eligibility of 
players.
In tho Southorn lntorcolloglato Ath
letic Association, which KD tho con
foronco to which many of tho lnstltu* 
tlons In Texas, Arizona, Now Moxlco, 
Oklahoma and Arkansas belong, there 
was adopted last yoar tho freshman 
and migratory rules and tho Texas In
tercollegiate Athlotle Association 
adoptod tho migratory rule. Bidding 
for high school students Is still an 
evil In this district which tho two con
foronco bodies are fighting.
TRI-STATE CHAMPIONSHIP IS 
AGAIN TAKEN BY CARNEGIE
Plaid Tennis Team Captures 
Honors For Fourth TimeMany Strong Opponents Go 
Down at Hands of Netmen
HOME RECORD CLEAN
For four years in a row, tho rac
quet wielders of Carnegie Tech have 
wou for themselves end their college, 
tho enviable tri-state championship. 
In considering the weigr.t given to 
tennis among other spring sports, no 
ono will doubt the truth that Carnegie 
Tech has made no mistake in sched
uling stronger opponents on the 
courts.
The tennis season is not over, noi
ls the schedule exhausted of its 
matches, and although Carnegie has 
not played every -college in the trlstato district, she has decisively de
feated teams which have been trium
phant ovor all such colleges that are 
in the running.
Carnegie 5, Allegheny 1
The Plaid netmen brought tho var
sity athlotic evonts of Campus Week 
to a close by easily beating the rac
quet wielders ot Allegheny College.
Jimmie OConnor played number 
one man in the singles since Capt. 
Schwartz retirod until the doubles. 
J. J. Kell rested up for the eastern 
trip and Ills place was filled by Roy 
Marshall.
Summary:
Singles.
OConnor (C. I. T.) defoated Coch
ran (Alleg.) G-2, 6-1.
Clarke (Alleg.) defeated Marshall 
(C. I. T.) 6-3, 6-1.
Hausor (C. I. T.) defoated Coale 
(Alleg.) 6-0, 6-3.
Hansauer (C. I. T.) defeated MeQulson (Alleg.) 6-1, 6-1.
Doubles.
Schwartz and Hansauer (C. T. T.) 
defoatod Cochrane and Clarke (Allog.) 
6-0, 6-4.
O'Connor and Hausor (0. I. T.) doIoatoil Pratt and McQulston (Allog.) 
6-2, 6-0.
Plaid Varsity 8, Alumni I.
Well, well, well, they didn't do It. 
So defiant did tlioso old-timers atuto 
their cluillongo to the 1923 team that 
ovon tho varsity notnion woro a bit 
dubious of tho outcome until tho last 
match of tho six wore played.
Singles.
Summary:
Stall wartz (varsity), defeated Boat 
ly (Alumni) 0-1, ll-i,
O'Connor (Varsity) dofoatod Woods 
(Alumni) 6-2, 6-1.
Ivell (Varsity) dofeatod P. Marshall
Mumnl) 6-1, 3-6, 6-1.
Ilausor (Var.) dofoatod Schmertz 
(Alumni) G-l,' (l-O.
It. Marshall (Varsity) dofoatorl 
Stockslager (Alumni) 9-7, 6-8.
Hansauer (Varsity) dofeatod Davis 
(Alumni) 6-2, d-:i.
Doubles.
Hauser and Marshall (Varsity), de
feated Steen and Woods (Alumni) 
6-3, 13-11.
Boutty and Stockslager (Alumni) 
dofoatod Schwartz and Hansauer 
(Varsity) 3-6, 6*3, 6-1.
WORK ON NEW GYM
MAKING PROGRESS
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
illation size planed floor, and the floor 
beneath the gym is to contain the 
locker rooms.
The mens gymnasium floor will bo 
large enough to contain four basket 
ball courts, with enough additional 
space to separate each of the four 
courts with nets dropped from the 
trusses. A stage, for entertainment 
purposes, will be a feature, and the 
iloor of the gym will be made avail
able for dancing.
Below the gym will be a floor for 
locker rooms, and enough shower 
baths to turn over the visiting ath
letic teams.
The basement of the Administra
tion unit, which will be of three sto
ries, will contain both the mens and 
the women's shower bathrooms, lo
cated directly in front of the connect
ing corridor to the swimming pool. 
The first floor will be fitted with tro
phy and clubrooms, and offices. The 
second floor is to contain exercise 
rooms, and handball courts will con
stitute the major equipment of the 
third floor.
The material for the exterior of the 
building will be of light brick, stone, 
terra cotta, and copper finishings.
May I go riding with myCo-edbrotlier?
MaytronHow long have you 
known him?
Co-edAbout two weeks,The Gold 
and Black.
Professor-Success, gentlemen has 
four conditions.
Voice from the Back RowTough 
luck, the dean will kick it out of col
lege.The Cincinnati Bearcat.
Plebe, driven to desperation by one
of Geeks exa 
wrote, The Lor 
When he r 
found opposite 
Lord gets the cr
mlnatlon questions, 
I knows, I dont. 
elved his pap3r he 
the question, "The 
idlt, you dont.
For every girl 
automobile at m 
but dont.Exchi
who jumps out of an 
dnlght,. ten ought to 
nge.
NEW THISTLE BOARD ELECTED; 
RECEIPTS MUST BE REDEEMED
(Continued From Pago One.) 
ment plan, provides that it become 
automatically void after the above 
date and that unredeemed books will 
then be available to anyone. Tills 
does not apply, however, to those who 
have paid for their Thistles In full. 
Such books, which hear the name of 
the purchaser In gold, will be held 
until the buyers call for them.
The Thistle office, room 14, Indus
tries Building, will he open dally until 
the close of school from 12:30 to 1:30, 
where the yoar books may bo secured,
Hello Uttlo flapper.
Im no flapper.
Who are you then?
Oh, Im Plggly Wiggly.
Hovr come?
Ive got the goods, but I don't de
liver.Virginia Reel.
Captain Thaddeus C. Knight. Quar
termaster Corps, has been trai ^erred 
from Fort Bennlng,. Georgia, V
negie Tech as assistant proft  .of
Military Science and Tactics
Kell and OConnor (Varsity) de
feated Davis and Marshall (Alumni) 
6-4, 0-6, 6-3.
Carnegie 6. W. M RT IS 
Just how the W. & J. team man
aged to hold tho Plaid to a 3-3 draw 
at Llttlo Washington several weeks 
ago, no one will ever tell, and for fthei 
same netmen to como to PitCsburgk 
with a dlfforent lineup arrangement 
and los3 every matchshowing com
petitive speed in only one out of the 
six  Indicates tho comparative 
strength of the two teams.
Six to nothing sounds like the 
football cry of three seasons ago and 
tho victory was under the same 
weather conditions.
Many tennis enthusiasts did not 
count on Connie Schwartz of Carnegie 
walking away with Fricderlcks 
strong opposition, nor did they figureon Jimmie OConnor stepping on Ful
ton for tho same 6-2 tally until it was 
actually accomplished. Summary: 
SinglesSchwartz, Tech, defeated 
Frederick, W. & J., 6-2, 6-2; OCon
nor, Tech, dofaated Fulton, W. & 3.v 
6-2, 6-2; Marshall, Tech, defeated 
Knoepp, W. & J., 6-0, 7-5; Keil, Tecfr 
defeated Noser, W. & J., 6-3, 2-6r 6-4.
DoublesSchwartz and Hausauer; 
Tech, defeated Frederick and Fulton* 
W. & J., 6'0, 6-1; OConnor and Keilr 
Tech, defeated Knoepp and Naser, W. 
& J., 7-5, 6-i.
Miss Brown, accompanied by the 
President of tho Margaret Morrison 
Senato and the Vlcei Prosldcnt of theCollege of Fino Arts, attended1 the 
Middle Western Student Government 
Conforonco hold in Columbus. De!egates were present from the Pfcr 
West, and East as well, as it wras 
planned to organize a national con
vention. Tills was done, the national 
organization deciding to mecU every 
two years.
Colonel Frank P. Day, head of tile 
Division of General Studies, will make 
tho Commencement, address at the 
Massanutton, Acadomy, Woodstock,. 
Va,, on Wednesday, May 30.
Pro I'. Thojnns Wood! ovens 1 
writing a pageant for YpaUantl, 
Midi,, which will colobrat.o the one 
hundredth anniversary of tho found
ing 6f tho first sottlomont In Wiiahtonaw county, July 1 to 4, Inclusive.
8tudenta not equipped wl,'*  
or brief oasc, n good fountain hand, 
Evorsharp Ponoll, bill fold, and at 
lonst ono piooo of Tcch Jewelry 
should visit tho Slngor Pen &. Gift 
Shop In Jenkins Arondo.
Do You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courscs in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics,
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by corrcapondcncc. Inquire 
how credits earned xnay be applied on present college program.
ljr Imumiig nf (Hljiragn
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
The Chicago Ttrn/ile, 
Cy,:ngo, Illinois
HOLA3IHD m IlOCIIE,
Architects
Drawn by Hufjl Ferrisi
"Building 
a Picture@ O, U. CO.
T-TliRIdic nrcliltcctfl envisioned a picturc, limitimi: in terrnn of the Hreat art of the 1
........ ...........................................,_______, __.ir the modern office
buildin/i in terms of thcKreat art of the Middle Agesand the 
result is a demonstration that the utilitarian structure, the modern officc 
liuildinji of corritnerce may he as picturesque as it is practical. Vision,  - our
imagination, courage and practical ingenuity in stylistic adaptation feeling.,
*io flunks,'
Certainly modern in vendon-z^-modern cnmnccrinK skill and o'1 ^he help 0i 
tion, will prove more than iqunl to the demands of die ardculty we may 
or.bofu.un. / . couple oi cenim.ltfllliMIWI,, ..Will,,'.*- HIIU J/*,lllll.<l I 11A1.11.1 I . / II, 111,1111111. rtllrtWI
have enabled the architects of this country to astonish the world 
their achievements of today and their promise of tomorrow.
OTIS
V
E L E/V A T O R C r
Offices in all Principal Cities of the V

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 30, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWS
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
A meeting of tlie Youngstown Clan, 
ilargaret Morrison School Associa
tion, was held in Sharon, Pa., at the 
lome of Mrs. Charles A. Ferguson, 
South Myers avenue, May 19. The 
afternoon was spent in playing five 
Inndred, the favor being won by 
3i!iss Jessie Miller of Greenville. 
IJainty refreshments and general inJormal discussion completed a most 
enjoyable gathering.
New Staff Elected 
To Publish Puppet
J. K. Matter to Be Advisory 
EditorV.C. Olson, Chief
Sacred to the Memory of
BUFFALO CLAN
The Buffalo Clan held its monthly 
sieeting on Friday, May 18. Commit
tees were appointed to work on a 
tentative schedule of activities for 
next year, 'beginning September, 1923.
Rabbit Feet is Fitting 
Climax For Campus Week
Tho Ku KIux Klan has come to 
arnegie! Last Saturday night, Obie 
Newman and his gang of dramatists 
covered themselves with sheets and 
.glory for the purpose of winning his 
Tiroman and incidentally the office 
inf town marshal of Tuckaloosa, 
Siiss.
Before a full house of Alumni and 
undergraduates, the question, Art 
You Superstitutious? was finally 
answered 'by Harry! Hamilton in RabIbit Feet and if the applause of the 
srowd can be used as an indication.', 
it was answered to the satisfaction 
f all.
Supporting Obie, Peg Harmon, our 
versatile queen of Campus Week, 
showed what three years of ShutSing Along at the Lyceum will do 
lor a nice, quiet, dark-brown daughter 
ui the South. The parts of Southern 
Mainmi6 were ta)ken by Elizabeth 
Sowersky, who enjoyed a quiet two 
hours smoke (sickness prevented 
fry the Fates), and Lydia Patterson, 
the premier chicken cooker of the 
South.
The principal victim of Obie and 
jhis night riders and the lead
ing candidate for the hand of the 
ieroine and the coveted office of 
town marshal, was characterized by 
Jack Daniels, Clarita Stevens, as a 
younger sister, excelled! in rapid 
squealing exits and her appetite for 
iarbacue sandwiches.. Dot Schell
--------" or tho humor as a
, ijwn fiapper competing for the 
hand of the villian.
The entire cast follows:
Pete Boone ......................Obie Newman
Granny Merilcy ..Elizabeth Soworsky
2iervy ........................ Clarita Stevens
Aunt Beck Davenport... /....................
.................................... Lydia Patterson
33der Welker .......................Rawky Law
Slerwin Maxwell..................Jack Daniels
Corisi Johnson.........................Dot Scholl
Aspirin Johnson.........Norman I-IoefCer
'.Orchid ....................Marguerite Harman
Swanee Johnson...........Herbert Polesie
Curt ........................................Lloyd Yoder
LOSTFountain pen with gold 
land, initals "0. G. D. Kindly rerum to Delta XI Fraternity, 254 Belle$e!<d avenue.
The new staff which will publish 
Puppet next year is as follows:
Editor-in-chief, Y. C. Olsen; manag
ing editor, L. R. Brown; business 
manager, B. Broudy; advertising man
ager, J. Swaney; art editor, E. P. 
Couse, Jr.; circulation manager, Wil
liam Buckley; exchange editor, W. F. 
Kaufman; assistant editor-in-chief, 
Don Gardner; advisory editor, J. Iv. 
Matter.
The issue of Puppet which was re
leased last Wednesday marks the 
closei of a successful year. The num
ber of issues was increased from the 
seven of the previous year to nine, so 
that it now comes out once a month. 
The Puppet/ has shown improvement , 
by publishing fuller numbers and by j 
winning a fourth place in the annual 
Judge competition. The Carnegie 
Tartan wishes the new staff a suc
cessful year.
Old Man Plebe Regulations.
King Tut.
The Senior Fence.
The New Gym.
That sober man at the Mardi Gras. 
The Scavenger.
The old Tartan staff.
The Shilling
The Alumni who didnt get back.
Carnegie Directors 
Keep Standards High
Heads of Four Schools Have 
Interesting Histories
Faculty Notes
Colonel Church returned from his 
trip abroad last Saturday.
Professor Dunnells was reappointed 
as the representative of the Civic 
Club of Allegheny County on the 
Building iCode Committee.
Miss Lucy Oppen, Child Health Or
ganizer of America, spoke before the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 
Assembly and the class in Field of 
Social Work on Wednesday, May 16.
Mr.- Dosey, of the College of Indus
tries, attended the convention of the 
American Foundrymens Association 
of Cleveland, tbe first of May, at 
which he presented a paper on 
Training Foundry Executives.
Sir Israel Gollancz, of Kings Col
lege, London, visited Carnegie Tech 
on May 14. Dr. Gollancz is chairman 
of the Shakespeare Association of 
England. HO has published the 
Temple Shakespeare and wrote the 
Book of Homage to Shakespeare.
On invitation of Superintendent R 
G. Jones of Cleveland, Director 
Bingham addressed a conference of 
the Supervisory Staff of the Cleve
land Public Schools on May 11. He 
spoke before the Hungry Club of 
Pittsburgh on May 2*1 on The Per
sonnel Movement.
Director Bossange and Professor 
Stevnfeld attended the meeting of the 
Associated Schools of Archttetftuvo 
and the convention of the American 
Institute of Architect in Washing
ton May 15-18.
Director iConnelley attended a fourday convention of labor officials from 
the United States and Canada held 
in Ricmond, Va., beginning May 1, 
for the purpose of reviewing labor 
legislation enacted during the year 
and to discuss the problems of en
forcement In the light of recent court 
decisions.
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
*
f

New 
Brunswick 
Records / 
Daily !
Tlie Cotton Pickers
2418"Snakes Hips*
"I Never Miss tlie Sunshine
Tivo Twinkling Fox Trots
The Cotton Pickcrs, like other famous dance orches
tras, make records exclusively for Brunswick because 
Brunswick gives the truest, clearest and most perfect 
interpretations of this popular dance music. Youll 
enjoy these two exhilarating dance selections. Both are 
joyful with rhythm.
Something new every day
Indus
Industr.
Non-Degrt.
(Continue
New Brunswick Records are now issued every 
day. No waiting. Any Brunswick dealer will 
gladly play them for you. Brunswick P.ecords play 
on any phonograph, but best on The Brunswick.
*unaivich
When P. T. Barnum made his fa
mous statement he referred only to a 
certain characteristic; had he consid
ered them with reference to their suc
cess he would have limited his scope.
Among others that are not born 
every minute are college deans and 
Carnegie Tech is very fortunate in 
possessing deans that rank among the 
best in the country.
WILLIAM ELTON MOTT
Best known and most feared of our 
deans is Dr. William Elton Mott, Di
rector of the College of Engineering, 
who recently featured in the Cam
pus Scavenger as Uncle Willy and 
is recognized by former associates as 
Graveyard Mott.
Director Mott received his S. B. In 
civil engineering at the Massachu
setts Institute of Technology in 1S8D 
and served there for one year as an 
assistant.
Until 1892 he worked along the 
lines of his studies and then went to 
Cornell, where he was an instructor 
for nine years and in 1901 was ap
pointed Assistant Professor of Civil 
Engineering.
Dr. Mott held this post until 1905, 
when he returned to M. I. T. as Asso
ciate Professor of Hydraulic Engi
neering. It was not until 1909 that 
he came to Carnegie Tech to assume 
charge of the Civil Engineering De
partment.
Dr. Mott was affiliated with tho 
school in this capacity until 1917, 
when he was appointed Director of 
the College of Engineering, a post 
which he has held ever since.
We hope that Director Mott will re
main with us a long time for under 
his guidance Science school has pros
pered wonderfully and will in all prob
ability continue to do so.
Fairmont, W. Va. Bridge 
Described at Civil Seminar
MARY BIDWELL BREED
Dean Mary BIdwell Breed is a na
tive Pittsburgher. She was born here 
on the fifteenth of September, 1870.
Miss Breed entered Bryn Mawr Col
lege, near Philadelphia, in 1890 and 
graduated with a degree of A. B. in 
1894. In 1895 she received her A. M. 
degree, and having been given a Eu
ropean fellowship, went to the Uni
versity of Heldelburg, where she 
spent a year in post-graduate work.
From 1897 until 1899, Dean Brood 
was an instructor in Science at tho 
Pittsburgh College for Women. In 
1901 she received a degree of Ph.D. 
and* became Dean of Women and As
sistant Professor of Chemistry at the 
University of Indiana, where she re
mained until 190G. From there she 
went to the University of Missouri as 
Advisor of Women and Head of Reed 
Hall. In 1912 she. became Associate 
Head of St. Timothy's School at Catonsville, Maryland, and finally, on 
July 1, 1913, was appointed Dean of 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege.
Miss Breed is a Presbyterian and 
is unmarried. She is a member of 
the Bryn Mawr Alumnae, Twentieth 
Century and College Clubs, and con
tributes to scientific and educational 
journals.
JOHN T. MORRIS
Director Morris, present head of 
the College of Industries, has been 
connected with the school since 190G.
John T. Morris was born at West 
Findlay, Pa. He attended a country 
school there and then studied at the 
California State Normal School. He 
graduated from the Covington, Ohio, 
high school in 1895.
He remained out of school a year 
at this time, when he worked in a de
partment store. After studying at 
Waynesburg College for several years 
he transferred to Washington and 
Jefferson College, where he was grad
uated in 1900 with an A. B. degree. 
He was one of tlie five honor men 
who delivered addresses at the 1900 
commencement.
Mr. Morris then taught mathematics 
the the East Liberty Academy. He 
later became joint proprietor and 
principal of the Academy.
He began teaching at the night 
classes of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools in 190G, and then started full 
time teaching in the Industries Col
lege the next year.
In 1912 he became Professor and 
Head of the Department of Mathe
matics. In 1919, when Director Connelley of the Industries School was 
given leave of absence, Mr. Morris 
was appointed Acting Dean of tho 
College of Industries.
Director Morris is a 32nd degree 
Mason and a charter member of 
Lodge 635, a member of the National 
Educational Association, of the Na
tional Society for Vocational Educa
tion, of the Pittsburgh Academy of 
Science and Art, and of the Presbyte
rian Union and elder in the Highland 
Presbyterian Church.
EDWARD R. BOSSANGE
1 ither dean who is about to leave 
uf Edward Raymond Bossange, Di- of the College of Fine Arts, who
Reinforced concrete bridges were 
discussed before the Carnegie Stu
dent Chapter, A. S. C. E., in an ex
ceptionally interesting manner by Mr. 
S. L. Fuller, vice president of the 
John F. Casey Company. Mr. Fuller 
has built several reinforced concrete 
bridges in Pittsburgh. I-Ie also built 
the arches of the bridge at Fairmont, 
W. Va..
Mr. Fuller divided reinforced con
crete bridges into two classes, mason
ry concrete and pure monolithic con
crete. The secoud class is coming 
more and more to replace the first 
class of such structures. Recently 
architectural features have been add
ed to monolithic structures which 
have greatly improved their appear
ance.
This is what has made the Fair
mont bridge known throughout the 
world. The design as worked out by 
Mr. Henry Hornibostel and built by 
Mr. Fuller lias made a very beautiful, 
widely known structure out of what 
would have been an ordinary con
crete bridge.
The entire structure from orna
mental lamp posts to piers was 
poured on the job. On account of the 
topographical features and ornamen
tation this necessitated elaborate and 
detailed forms.
Tho forms for the three arches, 
each two hundred and fifty feet long, 
were built on wooden falsework 
which restedl on piles. Wedges were 
Introduced at the tops of the piles 
to facilitate wrecking and also to care 
for tomperature changes, which had 
to be carefulLyt watched. The con
crete was poured from cars carried 
across the river by overhead cables.
The ornamental features required 
special forms which were so con
structed that they could be removed 
and usedi again. Considerable pv. ing 
was effected by using the fonns over 
again as the labor cost?, for construct
ing them were high.
The extra cost of the ornamental 
features was about thirty thousand 
dollars. The results obtained were 
well worth the additional cost. Slidos 
were used throughout to illustrate tho 
talk.
goes to Princeton next fall to tako 
charge of the new Arts School there.
Mr. Bossange recolvod his Pli.B. 
from Columbia in 1893 and studied In 
Rome under Garnier and Vermarc 
from 1900 to 1901. ITo then returned 
to New York Avhoro he practiced ar
chitecture till 1913.
1-Ie was then appointed Prorossor 
of Dosign at Cornoll Unlvorslty and 
In 1915 came to Carnegie Tech to tako 
charge of tho College of Fine Arts.
Director Bossange is vory popular 
with the students and It is greatly 
doubted whether his vacancy can bo 
filled by another as capable and woll 
liked as ho.
THE MIDNIGHT HOUR
Midnight sessions are among the 
most enjoyable experiences in col
lege life. No class room discussion 
can possibly take the place of the 
friendly, rambling, soul-reavling sort, 
of argument that most of us carry in 
our memories as the choicest part of 
our undergraduate days. Count not 
that time lost which is stolen from 
studies and dull profitable education 
to drag discussion through intermin
able windings while the room is filled 
with the atmosphere of philosophy 
and tobacco smoke, and the hands of 
the alarm clock, which is to ring at 
seven, slowly move around to four 
oclock in the morning.
That is the time when friendship is 
tested and tempered, when toleration 
and fair-mindedness are taxed to the 
limit, when Utopian schemes are ad
vanced to reform religion, college pol
itics, or the social system. That is 
the time when generous or imprac
tical impulses have full sway, when 
man meets man without deceiving 
mask of manner and custom, on a 
basis of complete acceptance and 
equality. That is the time when a 
man forgets that he has always con
sidered it immodest to expose his own 
feelings and beliefs, and when he 
speaks the thoughts that are in his 
mind with full assurance of under
standing. That Is the time when 
friends are made whom wo mean to 
keep through life.
Finally, the conversation lags and 
dulls, and tho host shows by nods and 
yawns that he Is sleepy, and ho opens 
the door to say Cood Night with a 
lack of polltness that at any other 
time would arouse resentment. One 
then takes his feet off tho furniture 
and dumps the ashes from his pipe on 
tho floor, departing to leave the cool 
night wind blow ,away the tobacco
Bill Says:
Last Thursday, after the Quulillca.- 
tiou Exercises, the Honorary Socie
ties announced their annual election.
Those societies do a lot of good 
lor a school in. that they encourage 
students to participate iu various no 
tivites. Everyone who thinks he has 
done something "for the good of 
Carnegie Tech, anxiously awaits tho 
Day of Call. If Ills name does not 
appear on the roll ho often feels 
slighted and believes something rot
ten has happened* in Denmark.
Others who know they do not 
come up to the requirements become 
crabs and spread tho news that so 
and so made the Call because lie was 
a very close friend of certain for
mer members. This Is poor spirit 
but on the ether hand each society 
should exercise extreme care and a 
lot of deliberation before the final 
elections are ready in order that 
there will be no room for doubt as 
to the wlseuess of their choices.
The upper class honorarios should 
pay particular attention to the quali
fication of men having made the pre
ceding societies to prevent the preva
lent idea that if a man makes the 
Sophomore fraternity he lias a better 
clianc for the following ones than 
other men on the campns.
The writer wuo is not a member 
of any honorary society, who is just 
a nobody around school but Avho has 
spent enough time on tho campus 
away from his studies to become ac
quainted with other men who are do
ing big things in activities for tho 
school feels that not enough care.has 
been exercised in the past regarding 
theso elections. Tills years elections 
were on the whole satisfactory but 
there is still room for improvement.
laws nor book theorems; it is the 
period of broadening ones mind, intel
lect, and, most of all, sympathy. If 
there Is one thing- in a college educa
tion that tho commutor misses It is 
that learning acquired from midnight 
hours of discussion, confiding and 
confession. It is that hour of llfo 
with onos associates that should 
malco tho parent and tho studonts 
themselves realize what thoy are los
ing by living at homo away from tho 
atmosphere and contact of tho humanfooling of tho college.Columbia 
Sped a to v.
Mr. Frod J. Hartman entorod upon 
Ills duties as assistant to tho proslrent on May 1G. A Harrisburg paper 
speaking oditorlally of Mr. (Hartman 
said: Ha put tho State Industrial
Board upon tho map an(11 as executive 
officer made it talked over among 
governmental and Industrial officials 
In mamyi states. Ho LVEH away with 
a rare experience In Qlate affairs and 
with a knowledge of advantageous 
extent of Industrial, social and labor 
conditions In Pennsylvania.
Pagan Splendor Marks 
King Tuts Crownation
Frenzied Cries of God Save 
the King" Rent the Air
For a few moments before tho 
Marl Gras last Friday evening, tho 
crowds ceased their pursuit of gayety 
long enough to pay liomago to their 
venerable friend and deliverer, King 
Tut.
With reverence in tlioir hearts 
tlieo bowed before tho throne of him 
who was about to be crowned and 
awaited his coming in respectful 
silence. Ah, tlio majestic bearing of 
tho page who appeared with a para
graph of a single sentence which 
read, Ladies, Ploaso Stop Smoking! 
This simple request compiled with, 
the royal trumpeters heralded the ap
proach of the coronation party. Seem
ing to sense the solemnity of tlio oc
casion, tho coronatore march with 
dignified mien in locsk-stop formation.
The throne was brought in. It 
seemed to have been faded by age, 
for it was a little* pale and was filled 
with water. The King, ho of majestic 
bearing, appeared in all his glory, 
feet first, and attired in royal gar
ments of blue and whitea blue bath
ing suit, and lily white train, taken, 
no doubt, from tho royal bed-piece. 
Ho also displayed his usual good 
taste by appearing before liis peoplo 
in galoshes, daintily left open at the 
top.
In a vory impressive ceremony, ono 
which at times brought genuine tears 
to tlio eyes of the King, he was 
forced In spito of his protestations 
to talee his rightful seat on tho 
throne. Tlio climax camo when the 
Kings blond locks were covered with 
tho shining gold gobboon which was 
his crown of glony.
A slight confusion was caused 
when a man In a blue uniform, mis
taking tho King for someone else, 
foclbly dragged him from tho royal 
equilibrium, with the oxclamatlon. 
"Back to tho Asylum, Numblefllnger!
Tho faculty dancing class which 
held; its last mooting May 1, lias boon 
most HAEEVHO?WAK this past year. Be
sides tho ton lessons of Instruction, 
glvon by Karl I-lelnrlch, followed by 
Informal dancing, It has hold two In
formal -parties, has ontorlalnod and 
boon ontertalnod by tho Pitt Dancing 
Class, until has $10.00 l:n tho troasury 
to start tho fall soason.
Dr. L. S. Hawkins, alroctor of Edu
cation, United Typothotao of Amorlea., visited tlie Department, of Print
ing and Publishing April 25.
Mr. Merritt W. Haynes, Editor 
Typotholno Standard-Approntlcoshlp 
Lossons, for Printers, spoilt April 25, 
2G and 27 In consultation with the 
faculty moiTUbors of the Doparlmont 
of Printing and Publishing.
New Fraternity Directory
NATIONAL FRATERNITIES 
Fraternity. House. Telephone No.
Acacia030 Clydo Stroot...................................................................Schonloy 9180
Bota Sigma Rlio1140 WIghtman Stroot........................................Schonloy 9370
Beta Tliota Pi5549 Forbes Stroot...........................................................Hazol 3320
Doltu Tau Delta50G4 Forbos Stroot.............................................Sclimiloy 0231
Delta Upsllon5224 Liberty Avonuo .....................................................Hlland 858
Kappa Sigma024 Clydo Stroot........................................................Schonloy 0401
Pi Kappa Alpha4807 Baum Boulevard...........................................Schonloy 9285
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbos Stroot....................................Schonloy 9211
Sigma, Nu1921 Forbos Stroot...............................................................Schonloy 050
Thota XI4902 Forbos Stroot ............................................................Schonloy 9143
LOCAL FRATERNITIES
Delta Chi Rho5072 Forbos Street...................................................Schonloy 9080
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro Avenue ..........................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta, Idaho Street .........................................................................................
Delta XI254 Bellofleld Avonuo ......................................................Schonloy 9102
Iota Sigma DeltaWilkins and WIghtman...........................................Hazel 9350
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson Avenue....................................Sclienloy 9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi5812 Bartlett Street..............................................Hazel 9398
Woodlawn Club5814 Forvos Street .....................................................Hazel 9422
smoke, and the ho 
hours sleep before
it to snatch a few 
daylight.
The midnight hour is the supposed 
mythical education one gets from 
heart-to-heart contact with his fel
lows. It is the course In human psy
chology that is not based on scientific
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, V,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Norfolk 
Downs, Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary ZarobsVy, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
"Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Rivervicw Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
IIARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESSecretary-Treasurer, Frederick Kindle, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
MONONGAIIELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marccau, 202 Shcnango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, E. M. Grctzlcr, National Supply Company, 
120 Broadway, New York.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 011 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Blvd.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
HUMAN HAIRNETS 
"Made Stronger Last Longer
Thousnnda of women lmvo found 
luiIr not perfection In tho Duro 
Hello. You enn, too.
True colorsRcnerouti also, slnsrlo 
mul doublo iitrmulfrluRO nnd cut) 
shapeo. Aalc your donlor.
Tho lmlr not that enduroa. Wonr 
It again nnd again.
You'll find that it does 
not loao Ita almpo or 
strength. '
Buy them by the 
VojCtL-*
Clarion 
ofrvaJDishnclion.
 /oiv/xscncl i/mco
Men %vho cure wear Townaend-Graco Straw Huts bccauae tlio ntylo of them ex
presses beat tho wearer's pertionnlity. 'Vcar ono and bo 
comfortable.
Where all the students !VT
THE BETTER STORE 
FOR MEN
C. A. HEIMERT
3G14 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Standard Quality Since 1882.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital....................................$200,000.00
Surplus nnd Undivided
Profits................................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEP08IT BOXES 
FOR RENT
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST. 
mmmtwimimmtmmraromnmrois
illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Compliments |
of j
Skibo Inn 1
Philadelphia
Clan
Hopes you all from Prexy 
Down to the Plebes 
Have a wonderful summer.
If you are in or near 
Phllly come see us 
We want to hear all the 
News of Dear Old Tech.
J. S. Charles, 6333 N. Carlisle St. 
P. W. Schmidt, 5111 Regent St.
L. E. Exline, 213 S. 47th St. 
W. P. Lippincott, Palmyra, N. J.
8CHENLEY TAILORING CO.
Under new management. La
dles' and Men's Suita made to or
der. Altering, cleaning and press
ing.
420 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Goode called for and delivered.
Schenley 1538.
LOSTHarvard barpin lost. Black 
enamel and gold. Finder please re
turn Tarbell's office.
