fo3 Uc A-EXAMS5 DAYS OFF 
Were all in the same 
boat anyway
VOL. XV. No. 11.lhp ari au
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.
THISTLE VOTE 
TO-DAY 
Register Your Vote
TAU BETA PI ELECTIONS
Mr. D. F. Crawford Spoke on 
The Necessity for 
Individuality
Professor Riggs Honored
Last weeks Science Assembly was 
! one of more than usual interest, the 
i feature being the announcement of 
the Tau Beta Pi pledges for the curI rent year.
Director Mott introducing the 
(speaker of the morning, Mr. D. F. 
Crawford, lately of the engineering 
staff of 'the Pennsylvania Railraod. 
Mr. Crawford delivered a short ad
dress on The Necessity for Indi
viduality. He is an honorary mem
ber of Tu Beta Pi and he mentioned 
briefly some of the ideals of that j organization during the course of 
; his talk.
Professor H. S. Hower announced 
the election of Professor Norman 
| Colman Riggs an honorary member 
to Tau Beta Pi. Prof Riggs was born 
in Bowling Green, Mo., November i, 
1870. He received his Bachelor 'f 
I Science degree from the University 
of Missouri in 1895. From 1895 to 
1 1897 he was a student of Mathema
tics in the Harvard Graduate School 
and continued this work in 1898- 
1899. He received his M. S. degree 
from Harvard in 1898.
Professor Riggs has had a wide 
[ teaching experience, first having a 
I teaching fellowship in Mathematics 
at U. of Mo. 1892-93. In 1893-94 he 
was an instructor, and acting assis| tant professor in the same school in 
 1897-98. From 1899 to 1902 he was 
instructor in Mathematics at Penn 
[ State College and from 1902 to 1908 
I lie held the chairs of Asst. Prof. and 
Assoc. Prof. of Mathematics, at Ar
mour Institute of Technology. In 
1908 Prof. Riggs left Armour Tech 
to become Asst. Prof. of Mathemat ics at Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy, which position he held until 
1910 when he became Asst. Professor 
of Mechanics. In 1911 he was ad
vanced to Associate Professor ot 
Mechanics and in 1915 became Pro
fessor of Mechanics, which position 
he still holds at this institution.
Professor Riggs is a member of 
Phi Beta Kappa Fraternity. His "An
alytic Geometry" published in 1910 
is a credit to his name, as is also 
his "Revision of Hancocks Applied 
Mechanics" published in 1915.
Norman K. Long, Civil, was an
nounced as - the high Sophomore of 
the Class of 1922.
The following were chosen from 
the upper quarter of last years Ju
nior Class:Donald A. Sillers, Com
mercial; Karl N. Zitzmann, Chemi
cal; Frederic S. Bloom, Mechanical; 
Michael, Aron, Chemical; Nelson 
E. Carr, Commercial; Addison A. 
Mankel, Metallurgical; Clarence A. 
Maurer, Mechanical.
After the pledge pins had been 
tendered to the pledges, Professor 
AV. Trinks preformed his time-honi ored custom of presenting a sliderule to the Sophomore attaining the 
highest scholastic standing in his 
Plebe year. This token of honor 
was presented to Joseph Hirschman,
'53-Professor Trinks is an honorary 
member of Tau Beta Pi. He spoke 
for a few minutes concerning the 
society, particularly stressing the 
fact that elections were made essen
tially on the basis of character as 
well as on the basis of mere schol
astic attainments.
The Mysterious Night is near. Fri
day evening, December the tenth is 
the time set for the artistic . good 
time to be given by the students of 
the Painting and Decorating Depart
ment of the Arts school. The Mys
terious Night is an annual good time 
of a Bohemian nature, and it is hop
ed that the night this year will be 
even more mysterious, Bohemian and 
entertaining than any that have 
gone before.
The committee, J. Hallam, II. Watterson, M. G. Winslow, H. Moeser, C. 
Shuman and M. F. Murdoch are 
working hard planning for the suc
cess of the evening. Stunts arc be
ing worked up by members of the 
P. and D. faculty upper-class stu
dents and of course the lowly 
Plebes will do their share. Danc
ing will be under way in the long 
south P. and D. studio, and punch 
with other refreshments which al
ways follow dancing will be at hand.
Everyone attending is to wear a 
smock, tam and winsor tie, or some 
other costume that will fit easily in
to the Artistic, Bohemian and Mys
terious. Any student of the Arts 
school may join in the revels, if with 
a P. and D. student. Get your fancy 
smocks out, your bright Windsor ties 
off the rack, and a tam from some
where, and buy your ticket at oncc 
from any of P. and D. students sell
ing them, as the Night of Mystery 
is at hand.
STUDENT VESPERS
Thursday, December 9th, Dr. Em
ory W. Hunt of Bucknell (President) 
University will speak to the students 
at the First Baptist Church, corner 
Bellefield and Bayard Streets, at 4:45. 
All students have a high regard for 
Dr. Hunt. 'A good soloist will sing.
Last week (Dec 2.) Rev. Robt Mac 
Gowan of the Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church spoke on If Jesus were 1 
: Student. The Soph banquet made 
1 the attendnance on the part of the 
; boys rather thin, nand the majority 
: of the audience were girls, P. C. W. 
1 being especially well represented. If 
the belles bring the boys to church 
as professor Trinks affirms, there will 
be lots of boys out Thursday to hear 
Dr. Hunt.
CAMERA CLUB MEETING
Last Tuesday evening the Tech 
Camera Club held a dark room dem
onstration. The program consisted 
of open discussion of many new and 
interesting processes in amateur de
veloping. Numerous questions*\vhich 
j had puzzled the experimenters were 
I answered, and many practical dem
onstrations were given.
Anyone interested in amateur pho, tography is invited to join the club 
! All meetings will be held at 7:00 p. 
1 m. instead of 8:00 in the Institute 
Dark Room.
WITH TARTAN AS TO POLICY
Musical Clubs make complaint 
about space given its activ
ities in the Tartan.
Committees Appointed
The Board of Student Activities 
held its regular meeting on the eve
ning of December 1st. The usual re
ports were read from the various 
standing antC special committees. 
The following business, old and new. 
was transacted:
1. Voted: That the question of
awarding insignia to the manager of 
the tennis courts be not discussed 
until further information could be 
secured.
2. That the chair appoint a com
mittee to meet with a similar committeee from the Student Council 
in order to discuss the possibility of 
combining the two organizations.
3. That a letter in which a com
plaint Was made by the Musical Clubs 
against the Tartan be referred t. 
the Tartan and that a report by a 
member of the Tartan staff be given 
at the next meeting of the Board.
4. That a letter from the Business 
Manager of the Institute in regard 
to janitor service and up-kccp of the 
Carnegie nion be referred to the 
nion Committee and a . report given 
at the next meeting of the Board.
5. That the Thistle be authorized 
to take an individual ballot among 
the day students, the rest: 1 ting, vote 
to determine what action shall be 
taken on the following resolution 
submitted by the 1921 Thistle: Re
solved that the entire student body 
of the day schools shall subscribe to 
the 1921 Thistle and that the sub
scription price of $3.25 shall be paid 
by every day student registering for 
the Winter Quarter, at the time of 
registration.
6. That the question of publishing 
the 1921-22 Student Handbook be re
ferred to the General Committee ol 
the Board for later report.
7. That all activities under the 
Board be required to have their 
monthly financial reports in the 
hands of the Chairman of the Con
stitution-Financial Committee by the 
third Wednesday of each month.
8. That the General Committee be 
instructed to confer with the Tartan 
staff on certain questions of editor
ial policy.
Standing committees for the year 
were appointed as follows: Auditing, 
Stultz, Finkelhor, Weber; General, 
Rank, Dermitt; Club Room, Arnold. 
Whitney, Jones; Budget-Inventory, 
Schmidt, Dean Tarbell, Smith, Gingold; Financial-Constitution, Batman, 
Miss Williams, Williams.
CENTRAL PENNSYLVANIA CLUB 
HOLDS DANCE AND TEA
The Central Pennsylvania Club, 
formerly the Harrisburg Jr. Clan, 
held a Dance and Tea in the M. M. 
D. Recreation Hall, Tues. Dec. 1, 
1920, for the purpose of getting ac
quainted and electing officers. Of
ficers were elected, from the four 
schools and heads of Divisions were 
appointed.Officers: P. D. Good, Pres., Ind; E. 
Martin, V.-Pres., M. M. D.;E. Schoen
berg, Sec., M. M. D.; C. Schaeffer, 
Treas, ScienceA Social and Publicity Committee 
was appointed by Pres. Good.
amounting to 
payment may
the following
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Winter Quarter Registration 
Official Announcement
Registration and Payment of Student Fees
Ehibition HallArts Building, January 3rd. 1921, 9:30 a. m. to 
11:39 a. m.1:30 p. m. to 4:00 p. 111.
Regular Students
The second payment of the Institute General Fee 
$50.00, is payable on Monday, January 3rd. The $50.0 
be made either by mail or in person.
Registration by Mail
Those who prefer to register by mail must observ 
regulations.
1. The envelope enclosing the remittance must bear a postmark 
dated not later than Friday, December 31st.
2. The remittance must be accompanied by the registration card, 
bearing the Cashiers stamp, issued to the student at the Autumn 
Quarter Registration.
3. The upper left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the re
mittance, must bear the name and address of the sender, plainly 
written.
4. Checks or money orders should be used, made payable to .A. N. 
Heyl, Cashier, Currency should not be sent. Those who send, cur
rency do so at their own risk.
5. Remittances must be mailed I to the Registrar, Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
6. Mail registrants must report j to the Office of the Director of 
the Division between 8:00 and 8:30 a. in., Tuesday, January 4th, for 
a receipt card. This card must be presented for admission to all 
classes.By mailing the remittance the student is not required to report 
on Monday, January 3rd and avoids the necessity of standing in the 
Registration line.
Registration in Person
Those who prefer to register ini person will report in Exhibition 
-Hall, Arts Building, on Monday, January 3rd. Registration cards 
bearing the cashiers stamp, issued at the Autumn Quarter regis
tration must be presented for indejntification. If this card has been 
lost or mislaid a duplicate may be obtained at the office of the 
Cashier.
Special Students
All students who pay fees other than the regular $50.00 fee are 
required to register in person on Monday, January 3rd in Exhibition 
Hall .Arts Building.
Students having special schedules, involving the calculation of a 
special fee must arrange their schedule cards at the office of the Direc
tor of the Division, previous to registration.
Federal Board Students
Students assigned to the Institute by the Federal Board for Vo
cational Education arc not reqip_*cl to report for registration, but 
must obtain class cards at room 100, Industries Building, on Tuesday 
morning, January 4th, from 8:00 a. m. to 8:30 a. m. These cards 
must be presented for admission to all classes.
Students mailing remittances 11 envelopes postmarked later than 
December 31st and those registering in person later than 4:00 p. m., 
January 3rd, arc subject to the usual late registration foe of $1.00 
per day (not including Saturdays and Sundays) to a maximum of 
$5.00
CALENDAR
December 18th, Saturday..............Last day of the Autumn QuarterDecember 18th, Saturday
to Christmas RecessJanuary 3rd, Monday................................................Day and Night StudentsJaunary 3rd, Monday
Registration and Payment of Fees Day Students
January 4th, Tuesday.......Classes resume for Day and Night Students
January 22nd, Saturday...........................First term endsNight School
January 24th, Monday.....................Second term beginsNight School
.Legal HolidayNo day or night classes 
Last day of Winter Quarter
February 22nd, Tuesday....
March 24th, Thursday.......
March 24th, Thursday
Easter Recess
........................Day and Night Students
.............................Baccalaureate Address
...................................... Commencement
...................Last day of Spring Quarter
ALAN BRIGHT, Registrar. 
(This announcement supersedes all previous notices.)
April 4th, Monday..............
June 5th, Sunday.................
June 6th, Monday.............
June 18th, Saturday...........
LITTLE THEATRE OFFERS 
NEW PICTORIAL FANTASY
The latest production of th school 
of Drama is Professor Longs adap
tation of Feoder Sologubs -The Tri
umph of Death, here rechristened 
The Serpent-Eyed in the Silver 
Chamber. It is a beauti/ully writ
ten but unconvincing play, admira
bly acted, and finely staged.
In brief, the play shows how a 
beautiful sorceress substitutes her
self for the rightful Queen on the 
latters bridal night, how f.r 1er. 
years she lives as the Queen, and 
how, at last, after being driven out 
and beaten almost to death, she begs 
the King to forsake his kingdom for 
her, and upon his refusal, turns him 
to stone, and falls dead at his feet. 
The source of Sologub's boudoir traedy is a legend concerning Queen 
Bertha, the mother of no less a per
sonnage than Charlemagne. In the 
legend the rightful Queen, the Ber
tha of the play, is the sympathetic 
character, anti the beautiful ururper 
is gleefully punished. There is 110 
mis-directed sympathy, no shirking 
of the ethical implications. Allured 
by his notion of the role Beau tv 
should play in life, Sologub has stri
ven to switch the sympathy of the 
trickster, and the present adaptor 
has followed him unerringly, to the 
detriment of the play. The appeal 
for the approval of Aglaia, the beau
tiful adventuress, is made on two 
grounds: the first, that she is beautiful; the second, that she makes a 
wise Queen. Obviously, the first, like 
the flowers that bloom in the Spring, 
has nothing to do with the case^and 
the second, with its glib association 
of beauty arid wisdom, is jesuitical. 
In spite of these fundamental disdrepencies, the play gives us thrill
ing action, and the garment of love
liness which Professor Long has 
thrown over the play can not be too 
much admired.
To the demands of the play, our 
actors are agreeably equal. Nastasva 
and Aglaia are faced with the con
siderable difficulty of playing for 
sympathy- in spite of their wrong
doing. Miss Forrest as the former 
character is most entirely satisfying. 
Her every movement, every pose is 
instinct with romantic beauty. Her 
voice is rich, tho somewhat soothing, 
and she uses it well, if rather chantingly. Thru the strenght and depth 
of her-interpretation sh e dominates 
the performance. The play and its 
producer at last offer Miss Floyd an 
escape from the bondage of charac
ter parts. In an exacting romantic 
role, hers is an unquestioned success 
Her voice reveals an unexpected 
ric hness of beauty and pathos. Only 
rarely in her gestures is there a 
touch of her familiar comic realism, 
the merely indicated parts of the 
ing and tin? rightful Queen fall into 
the safe hands of Mr. Reid and Miss 
Crowe. Miss Crowe plays shrewdly 
for sympathy, and gets it. To his 
part, Mr. Reid brings his easy pre
sence, his fin; voice, his clear dic
tion. Would not a beard give; him 
more royal dignity? He is at his 
(Continued on page 4.)
1921 THISTLE UNDER WAY
Work upon the ujat Thistle has 
begun in earnest and school organ
izations and classes will soon receive 
notices to appear for pictures. The 
success of tlu* book depends largely 
upon the co-operation of the student 
body with the staff. Notices for 
writeujte and pictures should be car
ried out at the time stated, to in
sure no delay in the final publishing 
of the book.
This year the Thistle Board will 
have a hard job confronting them. 
With paper and printing costs at an 
increase of 65V' over the contracts 
of last year, the cost to the student 
must necessarily be greater than ever 
before. The staff have met this prob
lem in the fairest way to the stu
dent body. It was felt that the stu
dents would not want a book of in
ferior quality at the old price ol 
three dollars; therefore the' book had 
to be kept at the same level as last 
years edition at .as low a price possible.
The staff have found it possible to 
put out the same quality book as 
last years at a cost of $3.25 per 
copy, providing the entire student 
body would subscribe unanimously. 
If the old style subscription cam
paign is run, the book will cost $5.00 
since fewer subscription would be obtained.
The question lies with the student 
body in the vote to be taken toda\ 
and Thursday. It should be kept in 
mind that the Thistle is the stu
dents year book, a complete sum
mary of the year at Tech, with all 
tht' fun, activities, sports and friend
ships that make up college life. In 
later years the book will be invalu
able, a priceless reminder of college 
days.
Everyone should feel it a duty to 
be on the subscription list, whether 
it is by unanimous action or taken 
by subscription campaign. It is im
possible to get a copy of last years 
Thistle now -dont 1ft this condition 
repeat itself next year.
DESIGN NITE STUDENTS 
HOLD FIRST ASSEMBLY
President Hamerschlag Urges 
CooperationNite Officers 
Elected.
New Constitution Adopted
The Nile Students of tho Division 
of the Arts held their first General 
Assembly in the Little Theatre on 
December 2, for the purpose of or
ganizing and to adopt a new consti
tution. A varied program, Including 
selections by the Design School sym
phony orchestra, an address by Prosindent Hamerschlag, and a playlet 
by the Drama Department preceded 
the business meeting and was quite 
evidentlyenjoyed by all present.
After the pav, Mr. K. B. Weber 
called the meeting to order, and an
nounced as the first business the 
adoption of a now constitution for 
the Nite School of the Division of 
the Arts. The constitution, which 
was drawn up by a committee con
sisting of Mr. K. B. Weber, Chair
man, Miss Elizabeth Burkhardt, Miss 
Rosamond F. Bruce, Mr. W. M. Smith 
and Mr. C. W. Vaughn, was adopted 
as read, and the officers provided for 
by it were then elected. Mr.  L. I.. 
Broicla was chosen President; Mr. 
C. W. Vaughn Vice-President; Miss 
Rosamond Bruce Secretary; Miss 
Sweeney, Treasurer; and Mr. Weber 
representative on the Student A<- 
tivities Board. Anderson and Kurtz 
were elected Thislo Board represent
atives, and Rice was elected Tartan 
representative by acclamation. A 
Nite student Senate, which shall 
have general supervision over stu
dent conduct in the Division of the 
Arts was also provided for by the 
constitution. This body, which is to 
be named later, shall be composed of 
at least one representative each from 
the Departments of Architecture, 
Painting and Decorating, .Music, and 
Drama.
In addition to the regular dues of 
one dollar per year provided for by_ 
the constitution, the Assembly acted 
favorably on a motion to collect an 
additional two dollars from each stu
dent for the purpose of defraying 
Nite Design activities. These dues 
are payable - to the Treasurer, Miss 
Sweeney, before the Christmas hol
idays. In conclusion it was announc
ed that tin; next meeting of the stu
dent body would be sometime in 
January, as the constitution provides 
for regular monthly assemblies,
DORM DANCE, DEC. 10
New York's East Side gangsters. 
Did you ever see them dance? At 
tin: Dorm dance on December 10, the 
subscribers will have the privilege 
of seeing this wonderful piece of 
characteristic dancing. Subscriptions 
are $1.50. Tho music will be the; best 
and other particulars will be left as 
! pleasent surprises for tin; subcribers.
DECEMBER 8, 1920.
SCI. SOPHS. HOLD BANQUET 
DEC. 1 AT HOTEL CHATHAM
Sophs alias Western Engineers 
of Pennahave varied pro
gram with Pres. Hammcrschlag. Dir. Mott and Dean 
Tarbell present.
Griggs, Plebe Pres , Unwilling 
Guest
Things started humming about 
noon of last Thursday when the 
Sophomores captured the president 
of the Plebe class in full view of the 
Plebes and hundreds of diners at the 
Beanery. The Sophomores were kind
ly excused from classes by the kind
ness of Prof. OHars, and in force 
went to the beanery where Griggs 
and several of his clasmates were 
eating their lunch. Surrounding that 
table were hundreds of plebes and 
sophomores. Two sophs went up to 
Griggs and asked him to rise. He 
refused. Such a rash thing to do 
when asked by sophs! Immediately 
the sophs grabbed the plebe presi
dent, and rushed for the door. But 
the plebes were unwilling to see 
their beloved president go so un
willingly, so they made a wild dash 
to save their leader. Overturning 
tables in their wild rush, they were 
held at the door by the sophs long 
enough to spirit Griggs away.
From here all was quiet until the 
evening. Gangs of plebes went around 
town, wild-eyed and eager, as if they 
would meet their president walking 
about town. Several meetings wen? 
held to determine what to do, but 
not knowing anything, they did no
thing.
Meanwhile several hundred stu
dents were at the Banquet of the 
"Western Engineers of Pennsylvan
ia. Little did the plebes suspect 
that it was the annual affair of the 
sophomore class of the division of 
Science, and at which affair their 
beloved president held the place of 
honor,
Hotel Chatam roof garden was the 
place of assemblage, and joy was 1111- 
confinecl. Honored by.the presence 
of Pres. Hamerschlag, Director Mott. 
Dean Tarbell, Prof. OHara, and hon
oring tho plebe president, what car
ed the sophs for the lower phase of 
their school life. What a cheer when 
tin; aforementioned Mr. Griggs was 
brought tied hand and foot! And 
what a rush to his table to have 
their menu signed.
And then, what a meal! Oh cruel 
language that does not give words 
to describe it. Oh, lack of space that 
does not. permit oven monger de
scription of its bounty and wonder,
Then President Greene of the soph
omore class called the men to order, 
He introduced the speakers of tho 
evening. There was no flow of ora
tory as is usually the case, but a 
real talk, Pres. Hamerschlag empha
sized the importance of affairs of 
this kind in the life of the school, 
and was glad to see that the present 
sophomore class so nobly carried out 
Techs old traditions. 11- urged that 
this period of rejoicing following the 
W, iK J. Game be only a stimulant 
to nobler deeds at Tech, and that 
we keep up our end.
Then the only sad part of the ban
quet was heard. Collins, who wai 
downstairs to sec; that no plebes un
necessarily got 11 the banquet, wai 
captured by the plebes, and taken 
away. But the plebes acted like 
sportSmen, and promised to return 
him if permitted in the hall to give 
a few cheers and songs. Their re
quest was greeted with cheers, and 
so the head of the committee; was 
returned amid cheers and songs by 
both sophs and plebes.
Director Mott and Dean Tarbell 
gave us some live talks. The latter 
especially deserved the cheers given 
him when he told how he outwitted 
the plebes to got to the banquet. It 
seems that the plebes spotted him 
as he was on the way, and he notic
ed them. To get them off the track, 
he bought a ticket to a theatre, 
walked in, and walked light out 
again through the rear exit, and 
thence through dark alleys to the 
Hotel. But the strategy was wasted, 
as the plebes beat him to it.
Prof. OHara made short work of 
his speech, and cheers were given 
for "Supply and Demand."
Then the unwilling guest of the 
evening was introduced. He thanked 
the sophs for the meal, and said that 
he was glad to be with them.
Did I mention the orchestra? Boy, 
weren't they great. And the girls! 
How could I forget to mention them. 
Nothing kept spirits higher than the 
orchestra. An dthe girls helped,
Echoes of the banquet resounded 
on the street when it was all over, 
and several orders for quiet by the Police Dept, went unheeded as 1-2- 
3-,I-5-6 Ray! reverberated through 
th' night. Of course the celebration 
was incomplete without a general 
good time at the dorms, so one was 
held.
And tin; profs wondered why the 
sophomore class was so sleepy Fri
day morning.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1920.
First Church of Christ, Scientist
CLYDE STREET
-------oServices Sunday11 A. M. and 8 P. M. .Wednesday Testimony Meeting 8 P. M. Sunday School... 11 A. M.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD sad DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister
SERVICES:Sunday School9:45 A. M. Morning Worship11 A. M.
Social hour and Luncheon for uta- dents, 15c, at 6 oclock.Christian Endeavor7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermon for Head and Heart A cordial welcome to all students.
Happenings on the CampusPublished every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of _the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
Lawrence Paquin 
. . . Don A. Sillers
Editor-in-Chicf .. 
Business Manager
Schenley 9211GUILD BAZAAR
Arc you going to the Bazaar? Of 
coursewhy ask such a useless question!
In case the wheres and whens 
have slipped your mind
The Annual Guild Bazaar will be 
held in the Union, Saturday night 
December nth.
This is the place to buy your 
Christmas presents  from Grand
mother's down to Tiny Tim's; then 
there will be ice cream, and good 
Homemade" candy, cake, and pio; 
folk dances and social dancing as 
there was last year.
Come, with your Date or other
wise, but be sure to come, and you 
won't be sorry.
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY 
Industries hold their weekly as
sembly on Wednesday, Dec. 2, 1920. 
R. Eurdley, Chairman of the Student 
Deportment Committee, announced 
that the smoking-rule in the Indus
tries Building was being broken. 
Dean Morris spoke on this subject 
and offered a solution for the prob
lem. He suggested that the rule be 
enforced by student discipline, and 
that persons caught smoking should 
be reported to the Student Deport
ment Committee. If this rule con
tinues to be broken, the Faculty will 
take action. He also warned the 
Faculty to bo careful not to break 
this rule. Smoking at the entrances 
to the Industries Building creates a 
bad impression upon visitors.
ALL ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ATTEND.Night Editor Edward A. Brand 
Exchange Editor Kenneth Arnold
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Editor 
William J). Hall 
Assistant Editors J. T. Amos Fred. L. Knowles
Athletic Editor 
Stuurt P. Smith 
New Editor 
Donald S. Harding
Divisional Assistants....Helen Lewis V. II. Stromquist......... I. Sissman... ii. It. Bievor
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
[.Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCHM. G. Winslow 
. It. II. Guyton
Cartoonist .. 
Photographer
Belleflold and Fifth Avenu*
Mafloes: 8:30, 8:00. 9:00, 10:00 and ll:*A- M. on Sunday* and Holy Day.
Vepern on Sunday at 7:80 P. M.
Pew 61, Middle AWi, for T*eh Btwtanta.
BUSINESS STAFF 
Circulation Manager 
William H. Obenour 
Assistants on Business Staff 
Robert Mill Walter HelloAckerman D. Sonnemaim
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D. 
Minister
Preaching Service 11 and 8.Sunday school at 10. |Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boya to attend our services and learn to know us as the congregation of Friendly People. A hearty welcome awaits you.
Arts.........Science .. Industries
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper 
aging Editor for the make up.HOUSEHOLD ELECTIONTECH MECHANICS CLUB
Yesterday afternoon, Professor Sollom of the Division of Arts addres
sed the Club on the Application of 
the Fine Arts to Industry.
The purpose of the lecture was to 
create a better understanding in the 
minds of the future createors of 
machines; the importance of Arts.
Professor Sollom emphasized the 
importance of Drama, painting,music 
and literature to the efficient work
ing of industry.
The girls of the Household Depart
ment held their election of officers' 
this week. The new officials are al
ready. formulating plans for a peppy 
party immediately after the holi
days.
The new officers are: President, 
Ruth Quick; Vice-President, Helen 
Reed; Sec. Treas., Helen Macrum, 
Social Chairman, Margaret Kimmel.
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenue 
Graded Sunday School, l(h00 A. M Preaching Services, 11:00 A. Id and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages A cordial welcome to alL
A MERRY CHRISTMAS
SORORITIES?
Margaret Morrison held an inter
esting and well attended Assembly 
at noon Friday. The meeting was 
an open discussion of Sororities, Pro 
and Con and nearly everyone was 
out to champion her particular-views 
on the subject. If you werent there, 
come to the next one which will be 
held soon, and will be announced on 
the Bulletin Board.
B. T. U. CLUB
Last Friday Mr. C. W. Wheeler of 
the C. A. Durham Co., manufactur
ers of Heating and Ventilating equip
ment spoke on the manufacture aiid 
operation of heating appliances.
The lecture was of great educa
tional value and proved very inter
esting. The Club expects to run a 
series of similar events during the 
year and invite all students to at
tend if interested.
TRANSITS AND LBVKLS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOMJIllIl^lU!m^llll^lIl^wmI^^!l!llnln!^RT^l3JlWl^l^latllll)C!!^lWl!!m!aunluBl',^ 
WEVE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS i
P. LUBEBUEHL & SON I
SHOES AND HOSIERY 
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN |
MEN'S BROGUES 
$12.00 to $16.00 |
We are showing a fine lot of 
newFall and Winter Broques 
at prices that are going to 
make them very popular, in
CORDOVAN - BOARDED I 
CALF AND SCOTCH 
GRAIN 
OXFORDS AND BOOTS
STETSONS
OXFORDS AND BOOTS I 
$13.00 to $16.00 1
A. V. O. CLUB
Last Wednesday Mr. Van Aernam, 
representative of the Mazda Lamp 
Department ol the G. E. Co., in the 
Pittsburgh district gave an illustra
ted lecture 011 tin* manufacture 6f 
the Incandescent Lamp. Three reels 
on the life of Edisori as an inventor, 
donated by the G. K. Co. were shown 
and proved very interesting.
The Club has a nummcr of speak
ers booked for the remainder of tile 
school year, and invite those who 
are interested, to attend.
MR. IIORNBOSTEL AT ARTS 
ASSEMBLY
The weekly assembly of the Arts 
Division was presided over by Pres. 
J. G. Tdd. The Division President 
urged the students to take part in 
Tech activities; outside of only De
sign school. He stated that there is 
a feeling in the other divisions that 
Arts has not or is not doing its 
share for the school as a whole; and 
he hopes that this condition will 
cease to exist.
Mr. Hornbostel spoke. He also stat
ed that he had noticed the lack of 
interest shown by Design in outside 
activities. He mentioned that nevei 
at Tech had he seen finer spirit than 
shown by the girls after the W. & J. 
game, and hoped that the different 
Divisions will become a more har
monious whole as a result. He sug
gested that a dance be held the 
night after the ball for the whole 
school in the Arts building. It would 
be impracticable to make it a cos
tume affair, but all should enjoy the 
decorations. The possibility of this 
suggestion- will be given full consid
eration by the committee.
Engineer' Equipment, Inetruments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papera and Clothe.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
12 SIXTH STREET
Patronize TARTAN Advertisers
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORS;, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS3702 Forbes StreetA JOINT MEETING
The joint meeting of the Chemists 
Club, Mining and Metallurgical So
ciety and the Carnegie Mechanical 
Engineering Society, which, due to 
an error, was announced for Doc. , 
will be held on Thursday, Dec. 9 at 
8:30 p. m. in Room 200, Science, The 
speaker will bo,Mr. Lynch, purchas
ing agent of the A. M. Byers Co., 
of Pittsburgh, manufacturers of 
wrought iron. Mr. Lynch will trace 
the manufacture of wrought iron 
from the time the ore is mined until 
the product is fininshed, Moving pic
tures showing the process completely 
will make the talk interesting and 
easily understood. The seniors in ttho 
chemical engineering section will 
take a trip to the A. M. Byers plant 
in the spring and they will find the. 
lecture of particular interest.
ffiljmtttiaH lay Stalls on Saturday, Immbpr 2511;
Do your Christmas Shopping early. 
Make sure that you see Fullers Specialties and Novel
ties before selecting your presents. 
A postal card or phone call will bring representative with samples to your home.
3 lit' IFuUrr lint nit (Emnpany
Phone Smithfield 820 616 Pittsburgh Life Building
PITTSBURGH, PA.
STUDENT CALENDAR
IX Night: School Dance.............................................Union
iOS Alumni ....................................................................Union
on Wrought Iron Mr. Lynch of A. M. Byers Co.
Room 200, Science ,| and <> Dance .........................................................UnionARCHITECTS ON CHARETTE
The first class B and C charette 
was finished just before the Thanks
giving recess. It was the first Beaux 
Art charette for many of the Soph
omores, and for a few it was some" 
charette. Wednesday night anxious 
architects could be seen watching 
the clock and no doubt deciding to 
take a later train for,home. A few 
got away on schedule time. Many 
had to work even during the period 
of rejoicing following the W. <$c J. 
game.
The C problem, taken by most oi 
the Sophomores, was The Side En
trance to a Church. Of the thirtyfour solutions, several were excep
tionally fine. There were no com
plaints about the criticisms for Prof. 
Rainsford, Mr. Di Nardo and Mr. 
Hitchens did all in the their power 
to help the fellows.
The B-plan, taken by the Juniors 
and a few of the Sophomores was 
critisized by Mr. Ellington and Mr. 
Di Nardo. The problem, A Small 
Chapel on a Private Estate," offered 
opportunity for a charming setting, 
and full advantage was taken of this 
fact
Fifty eight problems were turned 
in for the judgement which will be 
held in New York, December 14th.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT
DORMITORY WINTER QUARTER RENTS FOR MEN
The rent for the Winter Quarter for rooms in the dormitories for men 
will be due 011 or before January 1, 1921. No bills will be sent. Remit
tances should be made by mail. If payments are not received on or before 
January 6, the Institute will exercise the right to re-assign the room.
A. N. IIEYL, Cashier.
HOME BREW AT ASSEMBLY
The Science assembly today will 
be given over to a display of home 
talent along musical lines. The Mu
sical Club will, for a half hour or 
so, relieve us of the cares of today 
and the terrors of next week with
ik.K*irsonb. nmics sArtnt. en issi lUYMos s*rm
TH 
fo njewsTHE STATUE OF LIBERTY
Most of the famous structures of the world 
are equipped with Otis Elevators.
VSTHAT structure is better known or is 
 * more typical of America than this 
Statue at the gate of New York.
Countless thousands from the old world pass 
under the uplifted arm that holds a light 
which means to them worlds more than to 
us, though our millions know it and love 
it for the symbol it is.
It is fitting that an Otis Elevator should 
carry passengers up through the base to the 
foot of the Statue. For though the activities 
of Otis are wo:\J-wk!.*, the beginnings, the 
creation, the ba.ic ideas and the great d.- 
vcli'pni.-nts of vertical transportation were 
made hv Otis in America.
ARCHITECTURAL HONORARY 
FRATERNITY INITIATES
Tau Sigma Delta Honorary Fra
ternity in Architectural and Allied 
Arts held their fall initiation at the 
University Club last Thursday evening.
The initiates were: To honorary 
membership, W. Kerr Rainsford, W. 
Frank Hitchens; to active member
ship, 11. Q. Aspinwall, Paul F. Simp
son, H. Wallace Smith.
PLEBfc HKT
TtcVv
the soothing strains of jazz and other 
works of the masters. Judging from 
the character of past performances 
an exceptional treat is in store for 
the over-worked scientists. Several 
vocal efforts are also promissed.
Coach Iddings is scheduled for a 
talk and a summary of the athletic 
situation, especially as it effects the 
prospects of our basketball team, is expected.
 ELEVATOR COMPANY
Oflicc* in all Itiueipal Cities of tlie World

---------------------------------------------------

he had to continue to play and could not be given a rest. The new rule 
will also enable a coach to put players with special gifts into the game at 
strategy of play. As a dropkicker is put into a football game to kick a 
critical periods, and will give him a greater opportunity to develop .\ 
goal and then taken out again to make room for a man to buck the line, 
a player who is especially adept at dribbling may go into the game and 
then be replaced again by one who has more all-round ability.
The other rule states that a ball shall be brought out to the fifteen 
footline when it is to be tossed up closer than this to one of the baskets. 
If the men opposed to each other were of different heights, the taller 
formerly had a great advantage over the smaller one when the ball was 
tossed up near the basket, and could many times tip it directly into the 
basket without much opposition. This new ruling will make it practically 
impossible to do this without bringing the ball into play and giving 
the guards a chance to block the ball. The floor game had its most 
successful season last year when longer and more elaborate schedules were 
played than ever before. It has already reached the position of the great
est indoor college sport and is steadily gaining in popularity outside the 
schools.
furnish quite a few keenly competed 
games, and games which will surely 
test the mettle of the Carnegie Tech 
team to win. All of those colleges 
are accustomed to placing basketball 
teams of the highest calibre on the 
floor, and Tech is indeed glad to 
have them placed on their schedule.
The gymnasium, now known as 
the Tech Field Mouse" is being re
novated to accomodate the crowds 
that are expected to turn out for 
the games. Heretofore, the crowd :it 
the games has been entirely out of 
proportion to. the seating accomoda
tions, but it is believed that with 
the new seating arrangements, this 
deficiency will be remedied. The 
new seats will be able to take cate 
of approximately a thousand spectators.
With the football season over, 
Coach Iddings is able to devote his 
entire time to the developing* of a 
basketball team. The first call for 
candidates for %the team was issued 
just prior to the football game with 
Bethany, and at that time fully fifty 
men reported for practice. This en
tire squad with a few new additions 
from the football squad are still re
porting daily for practice. The give 
good evidence of a good and well 
balanced team, which will lie fairly 
representative of Carnegie Tech, 
which means that it might be the 
best ever put on the lioor by Tech, 
or, that it might be the worst. No 
claims are made this early before 
the season, for the simple reason that 
that the Coach has not had time to 
know his men as well as he will 
later in the season. Furthermore, 
the Ijonorable faculty has not had 
time to exert its influence.
But it might be stated with lull 
truth, that the men are all willing 
and hard workers; that they are en
thusiastic: that they are congenial, 
and that there are no reasons to 
complain in regard to the manner 
in which the squad in "falling-to.
As a general estimate of the cal
ibre of the men, it might be said 
that no single men stands-out as 
hend-over-hcels above the other men. 
Every single man is a good basket
ball player, and therefore there are 
fairly good prospects of them being 
taught the fundamentals of the game 
in a manner that bodes ill to tin1 
manny opponents. It is entirely too 
early to write personally about the 
men, because to pick-out one man, 
and give him a good write-up would 
not be fair to the rest.
Practically the entire squad of last 
year's team are back, with the ex
ception of "Scoops Carey, and Dent 
Moon. There are many faces pre
sent, eacli one of whom ought to 
give a good account of themselves. 
Levin a newcomer from Virginia Polytochnical Institute is a guard, and 
will make one of Tech's best men 
this year. Aside from this man, there 
are Pittman, Swann, Schucker, Ber
ryman, Hundley, Di tore, Parker, Lowstuter, Si ford, Heiss, Folstein, Himes. 
McPhee, Jones, most of whom are 
freshmen. Among the .old men back
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
A swimming team received its of
ficial start last Friday, when about 
seventeen men answered a notice, to 
report t> Mr. Moses in his office, and 
discuss the matter. At this meeting 
it was announced that the team 
could have the use of the swimming 
pool in the Falk Memorial for the 
time being, but it is not known just 
how long' this privilege would' be 
granted the team. For that reason, 
a committee was appointed to look 
into the matter of "a place to swim," 
among the different pools of the city. 
Aren, Science, was elected manager. 
The matter of enteriing a team in 
the swimming meet between the 
schools and clubs id' this district to 
be held during the latter part of 
this month was also discussed, and 
decided that if possible a team would be entered.
Thi> fact that there was such .1 
large turn-out at1 the first meeting 
augers well for the future of the 
sport at Tech. With the proper sup
port and spirit of the student body, 
and those interested, and those with 
the natural ability to swim, the 
sport should grow until it occupies 
m important place 011 the athletic Calendar of Carnegie Tech. And. 
with Mr, Moses, on the job as coach, 
it behooves everybody to get right 
behind him, and puli the job thru with flying colors.
There is not a single reason win 
Carnegie Tech should not have a 
team, and as stated many times be
fore in the columns of this paper 
then: are many reasons why we 
should. NOW is the time for us ftget behind the matter, ami shove it
through...NOW, because "now" is >1
time when Carnegie Tech is striding 
out, and taking her rightful place in athletics.
Notices will be posted around the 
bulletin boards of the difforen t 
schools announcing the first practice, and also practices for. all timc> thereafter.
Be^t Meals at reasonable prices
719 Forbe St. Oakland
DO YOU DANCE?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
a Jacques Dancing Academy
Craig and Forbesa
HOCKEY
At a meeting of representatives of five colleges at the .University Club 
in Philadelphia a week ago last Sunday, it was unanimously decided to 
set plans in motio-n for an Intercollegiate Hockey League, -to include Yale, 
Princeton, Dartmouth, Pennsylvania and Cornell. The details of the 
league's organization have not been settled definitely as yet, but are to 
come up for discussion next' week. This is a step for the advancement of 
the sport among the large Eastern schools and a similar one could well 
be taken by the colleges in this district. There is an excellent place in 
Duquesne Garden to stage the game, and a good schedule would un
doubtedly attract encfugh interest to make the sport pay for itself. Tech 
is about the only school in Western Pennsylvania who is making a serious 
endeavor to put a out team and Graduate Manager Haaren has had great 
difficulty in arranging any kind of a schedule whatever. The interest 
taken in the sport this year will have a great deal to do with whether 
hockey will bo continued next year.
Well, well, dear old Tech has at 
last licked someoneAnd to think 
that it had to be our old enemy 
Wash-Jeff! Of all ignominous defeats 
that was the igguminiousnest we ev
er saw. Pretty soon they will In 
thinking that they are good enough 
to play with us, and then we will 
have to chastise theih all over again 
Didnt they have a good 1 time on 
Monday, though? One would really 
have thought that they had some
thing to crow about. Why. we have 
spanked Wash-Jeff ever since they 
b^gan to wash Jeff, ages and ages 
rigo.
Well, what else can you expect, 
when they have boon so completely 
flattened and overthing for so long? 
They just had to break over some 
time yno. Wo cant always go on in 
the same placid way nor can we all 
be Niagara Falls, so some of us bust 
over once in a while, arid some of 
just naturally go under. People arc 
just like clocks, anyway. They all 
wind up iu the same place.
Pitt Weekly
NATIONAL RE8TAURANT
'Oakland' Moot Popuar Eating Plac'
114-116-11* Atwood St., Pittsburgh, Pa
OUR| ALL-AMERICAN SELECTION
Picking All-American football teams, the great December indoor sport, 
has taken an auspicious start and the annual battle between the football 
experts" is well under way.. The only selection which seems to us entirely 
fair and unbiased is the one made by "Life when thoir inexpert chose 
William Jennings Bryan for head water boy.
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Nearest and Best Laundry 
AgencyYALE FLOOR MEN
The Yale basketball team under the tutelage of Dr. Albert IT. Sharpe 
and Walter Mace is rounding into shape and looks to be the best floor 
team the Elis have put out in several years. They start out on their 
Christmas trip next week, coming to Pittsburgh Decemebr 30 to play 
the Tartan five at Motor Square Garden. Six men from last year are back 
and there are 80 candidates reporting at the gym every day for practice. 
The old men will probably compose the team as no very good new mater
ial has come to light so far. Goodell, Larner and II. K. Sheklen will hold 
down the guard positions, with Rudolph Garfield jumping centre. Paul 
Crane and Harry Alderman arc the veteran forwards and they look better 
than ever in practice. The week after the Yale game the plaid cage men 
journey to Morgantown where they play Coach Stadesvolds quintet. This 
will be the first real test of the team, and Coach Iddings is pointing his 
men for the Mountaineers.
Christmas Presents!
(Buy now to get best selections) 
Wallace Nutting Pictures and Calendars 
Inexpensive Novelties with Greetings Fountain Pens Eversharp Pencils Leather GoodsMonogrammed Stationery and Die-Plate with Calling Cards. Beautiful Cards and Booklets. 
(1000 styles.)
Old Alumnus: "I see you cant got 
whiskey except with a doctors pre
scription."
Second Ditto: "Yes, I have jus; 
written my son todrop engineering 
and study medicine.
The Technique
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
_______JENKINS ARCADE________STEFFEN
That Steffens ability as a football coach is being recognized outside 
the Western Pennsylvania district is attested by the reports in the news
papers from other schools who arc endeavoring to engage him for next 
year. Purdue is the latest college which is trying to induce him to be
come their gridiron mentor, the athletic authorities at that institution 
being dissatisfied with the present coaching regime. Happily Steffens 
conract here has two more years torun. We think Wally likes Tech 
almost as well as we like him, and are sure he will be back next fall 
putting Irwin & Co. thru the paces.
Soine big hanks may 
think they have out
grown the little ac
counts.
Welcome, remains 
our word to the small 
depositor.
Capital and Surplus, 
$11.124,136,20
McCLEAN HONORED
The Sporting Editor of the Boston Herald has honored McLean, Toch 
end, by placing him upon the third eleven in his selection of an AllEastern football team. Mac certainly deserves the honor, having 
brought his brilliant work all season to a notable clmax when he crossed 
W. & J.s goal for that famous six points.
hW after p smokind
cleanse your mcu;h moisten your throat sweeten your breath 
with
, WRIGLEY5
tice and a development of team work. 
There was a decided lack of team 
work in that game altho Tech triumphed 10-0.
As the matter stands, the only 
thing lacking is the appropriating 
of funds with which to bring out of 
town college teams. to Pittsburgh. 
With the largest indoor rink in th ; 
world, right at hand, it* would be a 
matter of little difficulty in booking 
most any college.
It is up to everyone at Tech to 
see that the Hockey team is recogniezd as on an equal basis with the 
other teams. A team that Tech is 
proud to support, as they have shown 
their worth, and a team that will 
bring to Tech the prestige she once 
held in that branch of athletic-.
Major Gordon enthusiastic about 
team. Game with Fifth shows 
men have ability and suc
cessful season looked 
forward to.
WESTINGHOOSt . ELECTRIC
The AncientH hailed Allan, the giant who upheld their world, a the* greatest embodiment of power. But Atla.s was a myth.Science ha produced a fit companion for Atlas, not 1 myth but a gigantic machine of iron, steel, and copper, with such tremendous power that it is fitting to call it A Brother To Atlas.Atlas performed his duty by upholding the world, and West- inghouse engineers are performing theirs in keeping the wheel* of industry revolving. They are continually striving to create electrical apparatus that will conserve the energy of man and make our world a more desirable place in which to live.Are you planning for your part in the future of the World Klectrlrnl?
EWESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC & MFG. CO.
StillOnlya PackaseThere have been many enthusias
tic puck chasers out early on some 
of these cold mornings conscien
tiously trying to better themselves 
in the art of goal shooting and the 
like. These men have in them the 
making of a champion hockey team 
and are doing their utmost to de
velop into such. The attendance 
shows that there is great interest 
manifested in this sport and that it 
is not a question of getting the 
players that is confronting tho team 
as it is, securing the backing of the 
Athletic Council.
A captain has been elected and a 
better man for the place could not 
have been chosen, than Perc. Jewel, 
who played with the Great Lakes. 
Major Gordon, who sized up the 
team at the game with Fifth Avenue 
High, last week certainly agrees that 
the team shows promise, and the 
weak spots may be overcome by prac
sill
Staled TlfhlKtPt Rlrht iorvou
YOU TELL 'EM
You tell em Ben, you know Hur.
You tell em Boss, you're over all.
You tell em novel, youre interesting.
You tell 'em, 5 & 10, how much is 
wool wctrth.
You tell em, veto, I cant budget.
You tell em, bad eggs, you cant 
be beat.
You tell em, ham, Im bacon.
You tell 'em berry, dont be such 
a goose.
You tell em Turkey, Im Hungary
You tell 'em florist, you have tulips.
 The Collegian
MAN WANTED
A REAL OPPORTUNITY
A olmncc to engage In the permanent moneymaking business of selling foods. Repent orders ronn n steady source of income. We ive ex- elusive local sales rights and pack under your label, nure food articles that are used every day. ordered every week. In every home. Complete sales campaigns with advertising literature and samples furnished. Your sales guaranteed. Each of our products must please your customers or money will be refunded. Your future Is an assured success if you answer this advertisement nt once. We are the largest packers of sj>ecialty food products in the world. References: anybank, rating agency. Express Co.. R. R. Co., in America. Address, STUDENTS DEPT., 
FEDERAL PURE FOOD CO., Chicago, Hj.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1920.THJS TARTAN.PAGK THRKK,
of RL-AID
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
Finest Work
OPPOSITE LIBRARY
HARRYS
On the Rlaid Screen
By Stuart P. Smith.
NEW BASKETBALL RULES
'Two important changes have been made in the basketball rules by the 
Intercollegiate Basketball League this year which should improve the 
game and remedy two of its weak spots. The most important one is that 
a player may be returned to the game after having been taken out. Here
tofore a coach was obliged to trust to luck that the players he started 
would be able to go thru the game, as he would not be able to remove 
them for a short time and put them back in again. This was a hardship 
in many ways. If a man became tired out or received some minor injury
SHAPE FOREARLY GAMES
Gymnasium, now "Tech Field 
House being put into shape to 
accommodate large crowds 
comfortably. Several hun
dred seats added.
for another season, are Captain Hamman, Dosey, Allen, Good, Nichol, 
Mauer, McCaw, Lynn, Gibson, Ander
son, Buckley. McKenna, and Godden. 
bly acted, and finely staged.
The schedule this season is the 
hardest one ever tackled by a Carnegie Tech basketball team. Vale, 
Washington and Jefferson. Allegheny, 
West Virginia Grove City and others 
will be brought to Pittsburgh, while 
on two Eastern trips, such teams as 
Colgate, Rensselaer, Hobart. Penn 
State, will be met. Such games will
SWIMMING TEAM ELECTS
Secures use of the swimming pool 
in the Falk Memorial for the 
time beingWill enter a 
team in the meets be
tween schools of this 
district.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN,WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 1920.PACHE FOUR.
BIG ATHLETIC DRIVE PLANNEDBY PITTSBURGH CLAN
FRANK BROTHERS
Fifth Avenue Boot ShopThe Industries Alumni Association 
is moving fast towards the 100% 
mark and is rapidly rounding into 
shape what is going to be one of the 
strongest organizations that Tech has 
ever known.
There is going to bo a general 
Alumni meeting on Thursday eve
ning, (December 9)., in Carnegie 
Union and it is up to every graduate 
and associate member to be there. A 
good program is being arranged and 
plenty ol smokes will be on hand.
The Board ol' Governors wish to 
impress upon every member of the 
Association the importance of be
coming affiliated with one of the 
various clans. The different clans 
are the best agents of assuring the 
Alumni Association of success and 
it is the one way of getting athletic 
material in Tech. The Harrisburg 
Clan is leading in this department, 
having been instrumental in sending 
here what we belive to be one of 
Walter Camp's All-American men. 
Below are the different clans and 
their secretaries and we urge every 
man not a member to get busy and 
join now.
AKRONA. C. Sprague, 185 Per
kins St.
BUFFALO1-1. J'. Nachbar, 300
West Ave.
CHICAGO  J. J. Kennery, 3748 
Wright wood Ave.
CLEVELAND  M. G. Kingsley, 
17817 Cannon Ave.
DETROITMr. Miles, c/o General 
Steel Products Co., Dime Bank Bldg.
HARRISBURG  F. J. Hhrtman. 
President, Keystone Building.
JOHNSTONL. W. Walker, 530 
Coleman Ave.
NEW YORKJ. A. Cameron, 5629 
Grand Central Terminal, 38 Park 
Row.PHILADELPHIAL. E. Exline, 
President, Fidelity & Deposit Co. of 
Md.PITTSBURGJ. W. Batman, C. I.
Near Forty-Eighth Street, New York 
Boot, Slipper, Hosiery for Men, 
Worne nand ChildrenLast Thursday night in the Fulton 
Cafeteria, fifty' loyal Techites" got 
their heads working and put across1 
the "peppiest and "snappiest meet
ing ever conducted by the Pittsburg 
Clan. It was VARSITY CLAN NIGHT 
and evrything that was said and 
done put punch into, the little'gath
ering, which encouraged the live 
wires more than ever to put across 
the one big step for TechATHLE
TICS.
The athletic situation now at Tech 
was explained, showing both the ad
vancement it has made so far and 
also the many things that are still 
left undone.
Most of the honor for the success 
of athletics, during the past season, 
must be given to the undergradu
ates, as they certainly were the chief
PITTSBURGH, Jenkins Arcade
WASHINGTON Woodward Bide, opp. Hhorclmin Hotel BAN FRANCISCO 
Whitney Building 
,.1854 Oeury Ktroot
CHICAGO Miehlen JiFvd, lildp,. Corner 
Waulilnytori Ht,
NEW HAVEN Hotel Tuft 
BOSTON . Utile Building 
CLEVELAND Athletic Club Bid 8T. LOUIArcade Building
ATTENTION STUDENTS
Laboratory Aprons
TECH STATIONERY and MEMORY HOOKS 
Banners, Pillows, Pennants,
CANDY, SODA, LUNCH, CIGARS
FORBES QUALITY SHOP
3812 FORBES STREET, COR. BOQUETJEWISH STUDENTS RELIEF 
DRIVE
The Intercollegiate Menorah Asso
ciation, with its branches in all lead
ing universities and colleges in the 
country, has decided to help the 
poor Jewish students in Europe by 
raising a fund.
Dean Silverman, of the School of 
Chemistry at Pitt, will be in charge 
of the Pittsburgh district. Mr. S. P. 
Sigal of the Division of Industries 
will be in charge at Tech. Mr. Sigal 
is treasurer of the Pittsburgh chap
ter of the Menorah Society, will be 
assisted by Mr. J. Joseph Antikole of 
Science, Miss Klien of the M. M. D., 
and Miss Stern of Arts. Alpha Pi 
will also take part in the campaign.
ALUMNI WAKEN UP!
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY $
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan g 
OUR 1EATS AND PRICES I
CANT BE BEAT g
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager |
The Following Table Proves You Are Asleep
Former  Total
Students Paid-up Paid-up Paid-up 
Graduates Eligible Graduates Associates Members 
Arts ,163 1600 25 36 fii
Industries 600 3800 96 128 224
Margaret Morrison 433 400 237 25 262
Psychology 30
Science 866 3400 346 168 514
If you are not a member now, write. G. L. Tilbrook at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology at once.
Get behind the School which gave you your start.
The regular monthly meeting of 
the Sciepce Board of Governors will 
be held in the alumni office, Central 
Building, Monday, December 13,- at 
7:30. oclock. 100% attendance.
The man was calm and collected 
as he seached for the gas leak with 
a lantern. He may still be calm, but 
so far he has not been collected.
The Torch.
Matrimonial Risk Insurance is 
new idea Fostered by Miss Rose Giegelman, a co-ed of the University of 
Minnesota.
YOUNGSTOWNG. W. Todd, 1618 
Kensington Ave.
DAVIS THEATRE
The Davis. Theatre program in the 
forthcoming week, beginning Mon
day afternoon, December 15, will be 
distinguished by the presentation of 
a brand new one-act romantic com
edy from the pen of Edgar Allan 
Woolf who has lately been devoting 
his time exclusively to the legiti
mate stage. The star of the piece 
will be Hormine Shone, who will be 
assisted by Bill Rhodes and a cast 
numbering five. "The New Moon 
is the title of the playlet.
A boy doesnt hesitate to "butt in 
where detectives cannot, and who 
provides enough thrills and laughs 
to supply two or three average pho
toplays, is the title role of Marshall 
Neilans "Dinty, portrayed by the 
freckle-faced Wesley Barry at Pitts
burg's Million Dollar rand all next 
week, starting Monday morning, Dec
omber 13. Dinty starts a Tong War 
in San . Franciscos Chinatown, lifts 
the lid off a real-life romance, or
ganizes the newsboys into a trust 
with himself at the head, and in the 
company of a Chinese youngster and 
a rollicking piccaninny whoops away 
with the swiftest set of laugh thrills 
one ever saw.
BATTERY
kExi de'
SERVICE
fact:
Day in and day out, at 
the Pennsylvania R. R. 
Station, New York, the 
sales of Fatima exceed those 
of any other cigarette.
Baum and Mellwood ; 
All Kinds of Batteries !; 
Repaired and Recharged \
H H M K1 -H-tHHHHHfH H IHHHUHHUHHHHHfO WlHHt
MW*#*#*##**##*##********
SKIBO INN
I Remodeled and Enlarged || 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME,
FOOD
j Served at betll prices  j 
I CIGARS CANDY '!
Two things might make you 
want to change your cigarette
17sOR. example, you might find straight Turkish ciga. rettes too rich for steady smoking, because of too much 
Turkish tobacco.
Or you might find ordinary part-Turkish or Turkish 
Blend cigarettes "thin and flat, because cf too little 
Turkish.
In either case (should you decide to change) the logi
cal choice would be a cigarette containing **just enough 
Turkish.
The only cigarette that contains less Turkish than the 
straight Turkish brands and more than any other Turkish 
Blend is Fatima.
This is the basis for Fatimas claim of * just enough 
Turkish. 
And scores of sales facts such as the one shown above 
surely seen) t:> justify Fatimas claim.
3UccA-- E XMS 5DYfOOD FDW
Inoct,Peabody IrCo.lne.'IVoy N.Y.
FORDEO DUILDINQ MAIUUIM HOPThe annual Night Science banquet 
and smoker will be held in the Ho
tel Chatham, Saturday night, Dec. 
18U1.
The committee in charge of the 
affair have planned for the largest 
smoker night science has ever had. 
Two hundred and fifty men arc ex
pected to be present. Will you be 
one?
A fine menu has been layed out. 
The entei tainment will be of the 
highest grade and everyone will have 
a chance to drive a few more nails 
in their coffin.
The assessment is $3.00.
Come on men, celebrate another 
Tech victory, but remember that you 
are expected to furnish your own 
home-brew.
John Clooro, Prop.
Facial and Scalp Manage and Chltdfon'a 
Hair Cutting Our SpoclnltUa
3017 Forbon Street, Oakland
Phono Schonloy 233Pittsburgh, Pa,
THE THEURKI 
SRCGEATTACLOTMCRAFT
LITTLE THEATRE OFFERS
NEW PICTORIAL FANTASY
EiUPPENHEIMER
CLOTHCRAFTClothes(Continued from page 1.) 
best in the clmax of denunciation. 
Mr. Schaughency, reminding one of 
Fritz Lieber, shows a tendency to 
shout.. The rest of the cast is ade
quate to the not excessive require
ments of the minor roles. Comment 
on the second cast must be reserved 
to a later issue.
The staging of the play calls for 
ones least qualified admiration. Here 
Professor Wallace reveals a power 
for creating beauty far beyond any 
of his previous work at Tech. IIis 
hand is J'elt particularly in the man
agement of the stage crowd. His ef
fects remind one gratefully of Ben 
Ali Haggins tableax. His assistants 
in lighting and costuming render 
him splendnid aid. Almost every 
garment has a delicious beauty of 
line and color. Miss Forrest and 
the adept Miss Cohen are veritable 
workers of Magic. The lighting of 
the banquet hall is gorgeous; that 
of the fore stage is inexplicable, and 
the red spot is childish. One remem
bers the production as a highly col
ored mediaeval picture book with a 
beautiful tho not always intelligible 
text.
Jageman & Spicket
The Men's Store ol East End 
6121 Penn Ave., - East 1Mrs. Fox was bragging one day 
about the large number of her 
cubs.
"How many cubs do you bring 
into the world at one time?" she 
asked the LIONESS 
"Only ONE,"replied the Lioness 
" but its a LION I "
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS& TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profits - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
MURADS COST 20 CENTS 
FOR A BOX OF 10 
BUT THEYRE MURADS
MURADS would be lowev 
priced if we Idt out all or part ol 
the 100 / Turkish tobaccos of the 
purest and best varieties m'own 
or if we substituted inferior grades 
of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldn't be MURADS 
theyd only be Foxes I
"Judge for Yourself ! ''
}Va call special attention to Murad 20s in Tin Boxes
MIMEOGRAPHING25 cents
PROMPT, ACCURATE SERVICE 
Mathematics and Tho Sciences out; 
Specialty. Lot us bid on your work.
EDWARD BROS.,
ANN ARBOR, - MICH.
in the regular foil-wrapped 
package. Also obtainable in 
round JlR-TIGHTtim of 50.
AAitcr* >/ t.V Htjtc'.' CNifr Tuihiih anil fyiptiiin in /Act li'MV
