MEN'S JUNIOR BANQUET 
HOTEL CHATHAM 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12amfflte tan
GUILD VARNIVAL 
M. M. C. C. 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12
VOL. XIX Wo. 12CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1924
JUNIOR CLASS 
TO BANQUET ON 
CHATHAM ROOF
Varied Program is Arranged 
By Committee With Liberal 
IdeasBeede and Kirkpat
rick Are the Speakers
HOUR IS 6:30 FRIDAY
Next Friday evening the Juniors 
will old their annual rampage at the 
Chatham Roof, beginning at 6:30 and 
lasting until everyone feels like leav
ing. Tickets are now on sale and final 
arrangements have been made for a 
glorious time.
During the past several weeks, 
there have been articles in the Tar
tan and notices posted on the bulle
tin boards announcing the Juniors 
Banquet. Next week there may be 
another article which will read some
thing like this: Junior Banquet was 
huge success. Brilliant speeches by 
Beede and Kirkpatrick were applauded 
by hundreds of Juniors. Dancers and 
entertainers set house in uproar. 
Chatham Hotel closed for repairs.
The committee in charge of affairs, 
headed by Cook, has adopted a differ
ent policy from that of former years. 
Not content with the possibility of 
having just an ordinary evening, they 
have taken every precaution to in
sure a rip-roaring time. The prin
ciple difference between this and 
other similar affairs is that there will 
be more entertainment and fewer 
speakers.
The entertainment will include 
dancing (not by the Juniors) and a 
number of other events which have 
been kept entirely secret. Even the 
most grilling cross-examination could 
not force Simboli, the publicity man
ager, to disclose the nature of any of 
them. However, this much has been 
discovered: the committee has gone 
to so great an expense for the enter
tainment part of the banquet that 
they are afraid they will not be able 
to finance the affair. This indicates 
very definitely that no banquet ever 
held at Carnegie will be able to be 
compared with our Junior banquet 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The Sophs Their Annual Banquet Hold 
While the Plebes Patrol Out in the Cold
A Plebe-Soph get-to-gether was 
held at the Chatham last Saturday 
night, the Sophs doing the eating 
in the banquet hall; the Plebes 
waiting outside trying to effect an 
entrance into the building. Among 
those present were all the Soph class 
officers except George Mitchell, In
dustries treasurer (unavoidably de
tained); also attending were Jack 
Hess and Herb Evans, Plebe Presi
dents of Science ana Arts respec
tively. The latter two were unasCHAPEL SERVICES
The music was furnished by Ed
die Wrights Plaid Six, and the en
tertainment ty two of "Ziegfields 
Best, whose act was followed quite 
closely by all present. Professor 
Griffis, ac'ing as toastmaster, called 
on the class officers for impromptu 
talks. Watch charms, on which were 
inscribed  '27, C. I. T., were given 
as favors.
This Soph banquet was to be se
cret, but the fact that Hess and 
(Continued on Page Two.
CARNEGIE TRUSTEE 
CALLED BY DEATH
Lucien Scaife is Well Known 
as Philanthrophist and 
Educator
Junior Prom Plans 
Nearly Completed
Orchestra is to Be Selected 
Sometime During Week
Preparations for the Junior Prom, 
that function which, compares with 
the Artists Bail a*j the social high
light of the year, to take place at the 
William Penn, on January 30, are well 
under way. The entire seventeenth 
floor and balcony of this hotel, which 
is so well noted for its equipment and. 
accommodations, has been reserved 
for this event, which aims to surpass 
any social event of the college year. 
Although Warings Pennsylvanias and 
Isliam Jones Orchestra cannot be se
cured, Jack Harris of the Prom Com
mittee assures us that the musicians 
will be the best obtainable.
Holding the Prom away from the 
campu? is an innovation here, al
though it is frequently done at other 
institutions. It is only fitting, how
ever, that such a major event should 
take place at a hotel, where such 
elaborate preparations as are now be
ing made, can be carried out. The 
William Penn fulfills all requirements 
in measuring up to expectations. 
Carey Proctor and 3en Kristoff, who 
are in charge of the supper and fa
vors, promise the most appetizing 
menu possible, and cleverest of to
kens. 
The Prom is the one event which 
no one can afford to miss. A'nybody 
(Continued on Pafe Four.)
N. Lucien Scaife, one of Carnegies 
first trustees, died last Wednesday at 
his home, 514 North avenue, North 
Side. Mr. Scaife is well-known for 
his untiring philanthropic and educa
tional efforts to which he had given 
most of his time since he retired 
from active business life, six years 
ago.
1-Ie was born in Pittsburgh in the 
old Fourth street road, in what is now 
the Sixth ward. After receiving his 
elementary education in the Pitts
burgh Public Schools, he entered 
Yale University, where he graduated 
in 1S73. He then went to Germany to 
attend the Frieberg University 
School of Mines. At the completion 
of this course, he spent several years 
in the mining business in Nova 
j Scotia.
i Among-other positions he lias held 
that of chairman of the board of diI rectors of the Scaife Foundry & MaI chine Company. He -was also on the 
! board of the Carnegie Hero Fund 
: Commission and a director of the Unij versity of Pittsburgh.
He was a member of the Duquesne 
Club and of the Alliance Franaise, 
j In his deatli Carnegie is bereft of one 
! of lier oldest trusteesa true friend, 
j who was actively interested in the 
good of Carnegie.
(Continued on Page Four)
v Rev. Walter L. Mason, rector *1*
? of the First Unitarian Church v
? at Ellsworth and Morewood ave- *1*
? nues, is to be the speaker at <? 
J* the chapel service this Tliurs- *!* 
?I* day noon, in the Little Theater. *J* 
?I* Dr. Mason is very popular with >
? Carnegie students and his many *
*!* friends will not miss this chance * 
<- to hear him. A member of the < 
?I* Music Department will sing and !* 
4* Mr. Alfred Johnson will be at * 
< the organ. ?>
PROF. TRINKS TO SPEAK AT
C. IV.. E. S. MEETING, THURSDAY
This meeting is promised to be of 
very great interest. It will give the 
mechanics here an opportunity to get 
in touch with the doings of the me
chanicals already engaged in outside 
problems.
Prof. Trinks, who will be back 
from the A. S. M. E. annual conven
tion, held at New York, has promised 
to be there and tell us all about the 
convention. The main subject of dis
cussion at the convention was to be 
Turbo-Locomotives".
All senior, junior and sophomore 
mechanicals are urged to attend. 
Dont forget, Thursday, at S p. m., 
Machinery Hall.
HONORARY MUSICAL 
SOCIETY IS FORMED
GEN. ASSEMBLY 
THIS MORNING 
AT MUSIC HALL
Lubic to Speak on Basketball 
 Music By Olsen Orches
traPolesie and Halden to 
Give Comedy Stunt
MOVIES OF N. D. GAME
Members Will Be Selected 
For Good Work in Vari
ous Musical Activities
Womens Prom Date 
Changed to Feb. 27
Moved Ahead Six Weeks Due 
to Final Examinations
ENGLISH MINORS WILL 
HOLD TEA IN JANUARY
There certainly is nothing slow 
about the English Minor Department. 
Last week they decided to organize 
with the Libraries to form a depart
mental club of their own, entirely 
separate from the Secretarais with 
whom they have always, been connec
ted. This week the club is. named, 
the petition for recognition is before 
the Student Council, a constiutional 
committee is at work, officers have 
been elected, and plans for the year 
are growing apace.
The officers are: president, Carol 
Foight; secretary, Alice Moore; so
cial chairman, Barbara White. Alice 
Moore and Sara Mae Everett are 
working on the constitution.
The club is to meet Wednesday, 
December 17 to adopt the constitution 
and make definite plans for a tea 
to be given some time after Christ
mas.
The aim of the club, which is called 
The Scribblers" is social as well as 
literary. The girls of the department 
are anxious to know the others out
side of their own class. In this club 
they will meet acknowledging their 
common bond, and for this reason 
promote the spirit of friendliness and 
good fellowship between them.
The Womens Junior Prom has been 
postponed from January 16 to Febru
ary 27, because it was impossible to 
j secure a suitable place. Student 
j Council has approved the petition, ask| ing for the change, which was. prei sented by the Prom Committee.
I The new date is popular with the 
j girls, because the original date was 
j too soon after the Christmas holidays, 
j and too close to filial examinations to 
j allow for the proper working out of 
the many details conected with such 
j an important social event.
The committee is now in a position 
| to take final steps to procure a suit
able location and a good orchestra. 
The Schenley, the. University Club 
and the William Penn are under con
sideration.
Several orchestras are being investi
gated, and it is expected that a selec
tion will be made shortly.
Another meeting of the committee 
j will be held next week at which time 
j it is expected that a selection of an 
j orchestra and a hotel will be made. 
| The late date allows almost two 
j months after Christmas. This should 
j provide ample time in which to peri feet all plans.
FACULTY MEMBERS 
DISPLAY WORK IN ARTS
| In the large exhibition room of the 
Fine Arts College there is an interi esting exhibition of work done by 
j members of the faculty. Nearly all 
| of the art teachers are characterisj tically represented. There is a wide 
; range both in subject matter and 
I treatment.
I Mr. Taylor has on display three of 
 his New England landscapes and a 
; view of some circus tents. Mr. Ashe 
has, New England Barnyard, Mounj taineers, and a steel mill interior. 
| Mr. MacGilvary is showing three decj orative paintings, The Evanescent, 
j "Autumn Interlude, and Under the 
i Pines. Mr. Hyde has three strongly 
! painted landscapes, 
i Air. Bayard is showing,  Calicol 
| Hill, and Long Run Road, ^nd Mr. 
| Readio is showing, "The Willows. 
Miss Topp is represented by three 
(Continued on Page Four.)
With the recognition by the Stu
dent Council.of tho new constitution 
of the Carnegie Clef Club, a new hon
orary has been added to the list of 
honorary societies on the campus. The 
Club formerly was composed of stu
dents in the musical department ex
clusively, but .under the new consti
tution, members will be selected ac
cording to the work done In develop
ing musical activities. . Members of 
the Musical Clubs, Band and Song 
Books Staff will be eligible.
The charter members of the society 
include such men as Dave Garber, 
manager of the band; Cal. Lundqulst, 
manager of the music clubs; A. S. 
Andrews, editor of song book; Alfred 
A. Johnson, from the music depart
ment. and Obie Newman, well known 
for his southern dialect songs. The 
club has a total of twelve charter 
members. They are: Johnson, prsi
dent; Garber vice president; Shunck, 
secretary-treasurer; Marshall, corres
ponding secretary; Sterling, Newman, 
Rossini; Krogh; Sload; Nern; An
drews, Lundqulst.
The Society will plan the musical 
programs in Arts school, arrange con
certs, and acting upon a suggestion of 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The program for General Assembly 
this morning at 11:30 at the Music 
Hall is of a quality and variety un
surpassed by any of tills years pre
vious assemblies. It includes a short 
talk by Ben Lubic,; coach of the bas
ket ball, team, several reels of mo
tion pictures and some musical stunts. 
The R. O. T. C. will also have a part, 
as Captain Sherril of the Signal Corps 
will present commissions to a number 
of upperclassmen.
The program was so closely guard
ed that even the committee itself did 
not know what the numbers would be 
until Thursday of last week. How
ever, it has gathered a variety that 
should pack the hall. The committee 
has issued a sweeping denial of the 
report in last weeks issue of the Tar
tan that they had engaged a number 
of second rate artists, in fact de
nounced the whole story as fiction.
Dr. Fish of the University of Pitts
burgh, will give a profusely illus
trated talk on "Wild Animal Life in 
Africa. Dr. Fish Igis made a life 
study of animals and will undoubted
ly give us all the facts in todays lec
ture.
Coach Lubic will give a. short talk 
on the chances of the basketball team 
for this season, and will probably 
have something to say about the 
schedule. The squad has been practi
cing long enough for Lubic to have 
a fairly accurate lino on the ability of 
the team, and he will have something 
well worth listening to.
(Continued on Page Two.
Music Dept. Presents 
Bach Cantata Tonight
Second Recital of Season in 
Little Theater
Graphica Campaign 
To Close This Week
New High Record Established 
For Sale of Cards
The Graphica Christmas Card Cam
paign is almost over, despite the fact 
that only a short week ago it ap
peared to be going under. Three 
more days of intense canvassing, and 
the remarkable success of another 
student activity will be recorded in 
the history book of Carnegie.
The spirit with which the students 
responded to the plea of the. Graphica 
Club in the last Tartan certainly de
serves commendation. It is a gratify
ing demonstration of the co-operation 
and sympathy, so noticeable in Car
negies ranks. In addition, the boys 
who ran the campaign deserve a word 
of mention. Their enthusiasm never 
flagged, even when the campaign 
seemed inevitably headed toward a 
(Continued on Page Four.)
An elaborate music recital will be 
given this evening in the Little The
ater, at 8:30 p. in. As tickets are 
not necessary for admission, If you 
have any desire to bo Inspired, or 
you enjoy hearing real achievement. 
in music, you will not be disappointed 
if you attend.
A cantata class has boon formed 
this year In the department of music 
and under the able leadership of Joan
D. Seaman and J. Vick OBrien it has 
made great, strides , in the presenta
tion of sncred and semi-sacred art. 
Bachs "Gods Time Is tho Best," Is 
included in tho program.
This cantata "was written at Wei
mar, probably in 1711. Tho words, 
apart from the two stanzas intro
duced from hymns, are drawn chiefly 
from the Bible; and as they wore 
doubtless elected and arranged by 
the composer himself, they have add
ed significance as giving a revelation 
of Bachs personal belief. The can
tata presents In clear and almost dra
matic sequence the contrast between 
the Old Law and the New, progress
ing from a fatalistic submission to 
death, through doubt and conflict of 
(Continued on Page Three..)
Student Directory is Ready For 
Distribution on Campus Next Tuesday
SPENDING MONEY
J* The business staff of Tho Tar- *!* 
tan has ii number of positions v 
open for ambitious, business< like underclassmen. Working ! 
I* ou the advertising staff pays 15 
J* per cent commission and some *? 
J* fellows are able to make $25.00 
I- to $50.00 for a few hours work. 1*
? Why not try out for tho adver- * 
v tlsiug staff? You have every- * 
I* thing to gain and nothing to * 
v lose.
I* Dont hesitate, but. call at The * 
I* Tartan office, Room 12, Indus- *:
? tries, as soon as possible, and
*S* ask for N.C. Weser, preferably *! 
I* during, noon hour. *!?
GLEE CLUB TO SING AT
CHAPEL BEFORE XMAS
The last chapel before Christmas 
will be especially interesting this 
year. It will bo on Thursday, Decem
ber IS, in the Little Theater. There 
will be singing of Christmas carols; 
the Glee Club have a special number 
for us; and also tho Music Depart
ment will entertain us with a chorus. 
It will be an opportunity for every
one to listen to and participate in 
good music. All students are urged 
to como. Remember, Thursday noon, 
at 12:30. 
FRIENDSHIP DRIVE 
WILL BEGIN JAN. 13
MID-WEST ASSOC. WILL GIVE
PINNER DANCE SATURDAY
, The annual dinner dance of the 
Mid-West Association will be held at 
j the Chatham Hotel, Saturday, Decemj ber 13, at 6:30 oclock. All students 
I whose homes are west and north of 
Ohio are invited. Reservation can be 
made by mailing1 a card to C. J. Udd, 
i Carnegie Tech P. O.
A short business meeting will be 
held and steps will be taken to change 
the name of the association from the 
Mid-West association to some name 
that will embrace all the Western 
states. The program committee has 
promised an enjoyable program but 
| refuses to give any details.
Teknon Club to Conduct a 
Campaign For Europes 
Needy Students
The Studont Council has authorized 
tho Toclcon Club to conduct a Stu
dont Friendship Drive In Carnegie. 
Bunny Frazier, president of the club, 
has put Johnny Carr, Soph Architect, 
In charge of the drive, which will 
probably take place in January after 
tho general assembly on tho 13th.
The Standout, Friendship Drive was 
managed successfully last year by 
tho Teknon Club with tho co-operaLion of tho Y, M. C. A. and tho Y. 
W, C. A. A spoakor was secured for 
a general assembly and at that time 
tho purpose of tho drive was ex
plained to tho students. Then mem
bers of tho committee In charge sold 
ton-cont meal tickets In strips. Those 
moal tickets were theoretically good 
at the student lunch counters In Eu
rope.
Tho purpoHo of tho Studont Friend
ship1 Drive Is to promo to the com
mon Intorosts of studonts In Europe 
and America. Duo to tho results of 
tho war most of the studonts In 
tho groat universities of Europe are 
poverty strlclcon. This Student 
Friendship Drive Is to demonstrate 
tho kindly feeling of tho students 
In American colleges and unlvorsltlos for tho studonts of Europe.
Drive For Members of 
S.I.E. Launched Today
Benefits of Society Set Forth 
on Behalf of Campaign
Since the last meeting of the S.T. E. 
many queries have been made con
cerning the organization and its pur
pose and benefits. The former can 
be stated but the latter Is like in most 
other societies, the opportunity is 
presented and the benefits received 
depend upon the individual and the 
use he makes of the opportunities.
The Carnegie chapter of the Na
tional organization of the Society of 
Industrial Engineers is the local 
branch for students only. Its purpose 
being to further the interests of In
dustrial Engineering, and to bring 
closer together those following differ
ent lines of Indutsrial work.
A few of the benefits obtained are 
(Continued on Page Two.
Mechanical Marvel of the Age Goes On Auction Block; 
Master of Fiction and Description Lets Imagination 
Run Riot On Subject of Raffle of Decrepit Flivver
% .j .j. .j. .j. ^ ty j
* MECHANICAL MARVEL *
* OF AGE GOES ON v
* AUCTION BLOCK v
Editors Note: No excuses
 will be offered for this article.
 It possesses neither news nor
 any advertising value that we
 are aware of, but we are pub lishing it solely on its merits
 as quite an exceptional story. It
 should not be considered as
 filler but rather as an example
 of the breadth of training an
 engineering student receives.
v * * * * * * * * *:
Time: Noon hour.
Place: Sacred locality near Senlort 
Fence.
Dramatis Personnae: Usual crowd 
of college men and women hurrying 
to and from class. Suddenly a de
crepit, struggling'Ford sputters in to 
the curbing and a dapper young col
legian springs to the seat, and soon 
collects a crowd with this crisp auc
tioneering monologue:
"Right this way, ladles and gentle
men; we've had that Inherent craving 
to be automobile owners. Heres your 
chance, the chance of a life-time. This 
beautiful Rolls Rough Baby Stutz 
with the happy Lincoln gurgle, now 
percolates contentedly on its own 
four wheels, but is shortly to be plac
ed on the wheel of fortune. Who will 
become the proud possessor of a real 
car? A matter of a few hours will 
decide the lucky winner. Only fifty 
cents a chance and look who you will 
walk away with.
The Student Directory will bo on 
sale for one week beginning next 
Tuesday. In addition to the name, 
address, and telephone number, the 
book contains tho class, the course, 
and tho homo address of each stu
dent registered in day school. Many 
precautions have been taken in com
piling the Information. The data has 
been checked with three different 
sets of registration cards, making it 
as accurate us possible.
The Song Book committee Is going 
to handle tho sales. Andrews will out
line the sales campaign Thursday 
night at the committees mooting. The 
price of tho directory will be fifty 
cents. The new publications office 
across from tho present Tartan office 
will be the headquarters of the salos 
staff.
The book is being published by Don
ald Milne, George H. Carl, and a staff 
of assistants. The edition is limited, 
and judging from tho requests already 
filed, it will be an act of wisdom to 
purchase early.
ALPHA TAU CALLS 
MEN NEXT TUESDAY
Honorary to Have Charge of 
Industries Assembly Pro
gram
Alpha Tau, tho Industries honorary 
calls its fall pledges at the Industries 
assembly next. Tuesday, December 1G, 
The Fraternity will have entire charge 
of tho assembly and will present an 
Interesting program. Special sneak
ers will foaturo. This assombly, tho 
last one before the Christmas rocosa, 
will bo of interest to all Industries 
men for Alpha Taus selection of tho 
host all around men In Industries Is 
always or Interest.
Alpha Tau Is tho scholastic Iuniorury of the College of Industries, it 
was founded in 1910 and has grown 
to bo ono of tho outstanding honor
arios of the school. The Fra torn I ty 
picks Its men on tho basis of schol
arship standing, activities and per
sonality. It. Is n decided advocate of 
the well rounded man who is ofllcloul 
In more than ono lino of activity. Tho 
pledges n.re chosen from tho Junior 
and senior classes, Mon are pledged 
twice a your, In tho fall and the spring 
In tho spring, a high sophomore l*i 
also chosen.
Alpha Tau Is an organization which 
binds the prominent moil of Industries 
togothor and gives un incentive for 
which to work und strive, a goal to 
roach.
GUILD CARNIVAL 
TO BE HELD ON 
FRIDAY, DEC. 12
Recreation Hall Converted 
Into an Old English Tavern 
Albright ani Gilbert Give 
ChalkTalks'Imps to Play
XMAS TREE FEATURES
First Plebe Affair is 
Pronounced Success
"No blanks, no delays. Lot us have 
no misunderstandings, like a friend 
of mine who took a sweet young com
panion out for a. spin tho other day. 
The roads were somewhat slippy and 
one driver careening more drunkenly than tho others caused him to ex
claim, 'Did you see those cars skid? 
Sir/ she replied frigidly, How dare
you address mo like that?.........
"Dont crowd there on the edge 
please. Give the gentlemen a chance 
to thoroughly Inspect this throbbing, 
palpitating puddle Jumper (Voice from 
crowd"It'll have to be a high jump
er to get over that puddle of oil it 
just dropped." Gentlemen, you aro 
Intelligent, you are not blind to lux
ury and beauty. Look at the graceful 
lines of this peer of all roadsters. The 
body was made up by-Fisher & Co.
(Continued on Page Four.)
Freshmen Display Social Tal
ent in Initial Attempt
Among scones approaching In origi
nality and glamor, the most extrava
gant affairs of Carnegies ablest com
mitteemen, our yearlings celebrated 
their first unsupervised affair on Fri
day, Doeember 5. The Plebe Dance, 
an annual social event, was held at 
the Union, and certainly proved that 
Carnegie need not worry about the 
success of her activities for the next 
four years, as least.
The large and congenial crowd in 
at^ndance were agreeably surprised 
at the lavishness of the decorations. 
Many colored streamers were swung 
between the outside beams and the 
center peak of the ceiling. In the 
center, like a great cluster of grapes, 
hung three hundred varl-colored bal
loons. In each of the four corners 
of the room was suspended a large 
searchlight, focusing its brilliant col
orded beam on the clustered balloons 
in the centerthe colors of the Car
negie Plaid: red, yellow, green and 
blue. A flashing sign on the east wall 
spelled out P-L-E-B-E-S i'n justifiable 
pride. Fans in various parts of the 
hall kept the streamers and confetti 
f Continued on Page Two.)
THE FAN TO BE GIVEN 
NEXT WEEK IN THEATER
"Tho Fan, which  will open in 
tlie Little Theater on December liS, 
for a run of five days, was written 
by Carlo Goldoni, an Italian author 
of tho middle Eighteenth Century. 
Goldoni has been termed the Italian 
Mol lore, and wan tho first, dramatist, 
after the "Comedia del ,Ortlo."
"The Fan" was originally produced 
In Venice In tho year 1750. The ac
tion follows the adventurer of a cer
tain fan, about which tho plot is 
women, and from which the play de
rives Its name, The sotting Is tho 
square of a. sinalli Italian town, 
which affords an opportunity for 
much bright color, atmosphere and 
movement, all of which are .fully 
and successfully carried out in this 
presentation. The costumes are , be
ing specially designed and executed 
for this production. Last action se
cures popular appeal.
After the General Assembly today 
the tickets for the Carnegie Tech 
Guild Carnival 011 December 12 will 
go 011 sale.| These tickets will be fifty 
cents for Guild mombers and seventyfive cents for others. The Dragons 
are in charge of the sale of these tick
ets.
Without a doubt this will bo the 
greatest Christmas party ever stagod 
at Carnegie. All Margaret Morrison 
is to be given over to the festivities.
O11 the first floor will be bridge ta
bles; in. the Assembly Hall, Johnny 
Gilbert and I-Iardie Albright will en
tertain. In the old girls gym 011 tho 
fourth fioor thore will , be a pagoant 
at S:30 and at nine-thirty in tho same 
place the Collegiate Imps will play 
for dancing. Members of the football 
team are to play tho game of Santa 
Claus for tho education of the multi
tudes. Also the sixteenth contury 
idea of tho pageant will bo further 
carried out in the decorations and 
tho costumes sot a number of girls 
who will soli novelties.
But tho most Interesting foatu.ro 
of all Is to bo 1111 old English Tavern 
In tho Roc Hall. Hero tho weary 
dancers and others not so weary may 
find rofroshmont. and entertainment. 
Tho Stringers will play hero and a 
numbor of stunts aro being planned 
which aro sure to show some of tlio 
unknown talents of the Maggie 
Murplis.
This Christmas Carnival Is man
aged by tho Carnegie Tech Guild, but 
a goodly number of other campus 
organizations aro assisting with the 
work. Those organizations aro: the 
Y. W. C. A., tho Dragons, the W. A, A., 
the Costume Economic Club, tho 
Drama Department, tho Stringers, and 
(Continued on Page Four, I
Arts Ball Feb.TWill 
BeOne Arabian Night
Polesie and Halden Working 
on Fantastic Piny
Arts students will have to dip deep. 
Into their codai* oliostH for towels ami 
tunics, 1'or this year on February ti, 
there Is going to bo celebrated the 
greatest and best of the thousand and 
one Arabian Nights. Yes, tho Arts 
school will bo tho netting of "Omv 
Arabian Night,," in which will bo com
bined all of the mystery, magic, and 
lantncy of the East,
Tho ball will not represent any def
inite period In Arabian history, but 
rather It will embody all that Is fan
tastic and enchanting I11 tho entire 
Arabian tradition and fiction
Herb Polsle, the Art's School Alladln was found rubbing his lamps, 
delving deep into Eastern folk loro 
for material for the exotic play which 
I10 is vviting. Verne Halden, is run
ning rampant with the whole tone 
scale In Un effort to make the music 
symbolic of th color and gorgeous
ness of the Bagdad.
U. S. Mollenoaur, general chairman 
of tills years ball, has been in com
munication with ,a half a dozen no* 
tionally known orchestras, but the 
one selected will not bn announced 
uuill a later date. Needless to say, 
the music will be equal to that of 
any other social event 011 the campus 
this year.
GAMBOL OF THE GUILDS 
DATE CHANGED TO MAR.
The date for the Gambol of the 
Guilds has been changed to March 27. 
The Guild Committee, after consult
ing the Student Council, deemed the 
change advisable, due to the Pitt bas
ketball game here being scheduled 
for the same date. This change 
should lie welcomed, as It. fills an 
otherwise open space In the social 
calendar for March, and it will pro
vide the last big social event preced
ing the Easter vacation.
The Guild Committee held a meet
ing last Thursday, at 12:45, and, after 
a short, snappy session, put plans un
der way for the biggest Gambol ever 
hold on the campus. Special stunts 
are being arranged, and the Union and 
the Faculty clubroom are expoctod to 
bo filled to capacity. Preliminary 
tickets aro to be released soon after 
the Christmas holidays and, by that 
time, It will be doflnltely decided 
whether or not the dance will bo 
oponod to all schools this year.
The following sub-committees have 
been appointed by H. E. Schwab, tho 
chairman of tho Guild Committee:
MusicD. V. Beede, R. D. Gill.
Program and RefreshmentsF. O. 
Duncan G. VanVechten.
7ickets and PublicityJ. N. Till
brook, E. L. Smith.
DecorationsC. H. Kappenberger,
D. K. Mims.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOrHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 9. 1924
ar-tan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the PostofTice uf Pittsburgh as second-classmatter.
FRED C. SMITH..
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
F. D. ROSSINI
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
A. E. KROGHE. C. FRAZIER
L. H. Harris
EDITORIAL STAFF
A. F. Carson R. R. SitzlerD. A. Gardner
FRED T. PHELPS
MANAGING EDITOR
...Schenley 910-
W. WINNING ____
NEWS EDITORS...Schenley 9070
J. Mi GOSS................
ALUMNI EDITOR
REPORTERS
R. L. Lepper. M. Hollinshead, M. Dutt, Rosemary McCambridge, E. Tallmadge, 
M. Tucker, R. Hand, C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, IT. Borzella.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
Margaret McFall, J
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams 
William Bernardi.
D. M. Davidson.
BUSINESS MANAGER
ADVERTISING MANAGER
CIRCULATION MANAGER
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. 
Strizak. Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, G. H. Carl, B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. 
Kandell. __________________________________________________
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes, all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the s.adent 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.________________________________________
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12-30- 
1:20.____________==========
CARNEGIE VS. CARNEGIE TECH
Had there been any doubts in our mind concerning the true 
value of the present campaign to change the name CARNEGIE for 
Tech, they were disbanded last Monday, when we took a trip to the 
Library.
Every Sunday paper in the country had in it an article about 
the Notre Dame-Carnegie game. Apparently some syndicate was 
sending it from Pittsburgh for all the accounts read alike, and also 
furnished a rather sharp argument against those who maintain that 
the full name CARNEGIE TECH is the best cognomen for our insti
tution. Nearly all of these papers'carried in their headlines a legend 
to the effect:
NOTRE DAME FINDS TECH EASY.
Then the dispatch went on to tell about Carnegie Tech for about 
one paragraph. Thereafter the word TECH was used exclusively.
Ideally, we should like CARNEGIE to be known as CARNEGIE 
TECH, but practically that is not possible. The nature oil humans is 
such that we seek shortcuts. The temptation to say TECH instead 
of CARNEGIE TECH is too great for most of us; and the temptation 
to write TECH instead of CARNEGIE TECH is too great for most 
of us, witness the scoreboard of the Notre Dame game. (To be truth
ful, we had wished for better things from the men in charge of that 
department.)
Reforming human nature is a task somewhat distasteful to us. 
We would much rather conform to human nature. That is the reason 
the Carnegie Tartan is advocating the use of CARNEGIE exclusive
ly. There are a lot of people about the campus who honestly believe 
that the name CARNEGIE is devoid of meaning, chiefly because there 
is a community of the same name near here. The beliefs ol: these 
people deserve serious consideration, but we would submit that Co
lumbia, Iowa, Syracuse, Allegheny, Buffalo, Denver, Cornell, Case, 
Nebraska, etc., are a few of the many examples of institutions carry
ing names which have not been copyrighted for the exclusive use of 
the schools.
There are two sides to every question. Think if, over. If you 
know yourself to be strong enough to avoid the temptation of short
ening CARNEGIE TECII to TECH, go ahead and use the full name, 
provided you think your hearers will also be able to avoid the snare.
We neednot remunerate the advantage of using a distinctive 
name for a distinctive institution. The only difficulty lies in the 
method and the trouble we are -willing to take to achieve our pur
pose. It is an ALL-CARNEGIE JOB.
THANKS!
On behalf of the student body we wish to thank the sporting 
editors of the Pittsburgh papers who have so readily and willingly 
acceded to what we have presented to them as the views of the stu
dent body here in regard to the use of CARNEGIE for TECH.
Especial honorable mention is offered to Th.e Post, The GazetteTimes, The Sun and The Chronicle Telegraph.
It is no easy matter to effect a change of habit long formed and 
We appreciate their continuous efforts in this matter._________________
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9
General Assembly...........................................................11:30 A. M., Music Hall
Music Department Recital...................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 11
Chapel .............................-.........................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12
Guild Carnival.................................................8:30 P. M., Margaret Morrison
Junior Banquet........................................................6 :30 P. M., Chatham Hotel
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13
Saturday Night Dance...........................................................8:30 P. M., Union
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 16
The Fan .............................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 17
 The Fan  ..........................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 18
Special Christmas Chapel.....................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
The Fan ......................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 19 
Christmas Recess.............................................................................General exodus
ARTS PLAYS
DRIVE FOR MEMBERS OF ! FIRST PLEBE AFFAIR IS
S. I. E. LAUNCHED TODAY PRONOUNCED SUCCESS
(Continuied From Page One.) 
an opportunity of hearing men speak. 
who have been out and rubbed shoul-, 
ders with the commercial world. Stu
dent members have access to the Em
ployment Bureau of the National or 
ganization, and members are eligible 
for Junior membership within two 
years after graduation without the 
payment of the usual fee. Conven
tions are held from time to time at 
which free admission can be obtained 
for student members.
The officers are opening a drive for 
members today. If you are a Sopho
more or above in any course in either 
the College of Engineering or the 
College of Indutsries, you are entitled 
to join and can become a member by 
filling out an application. These ap
plications can be obtained from the 
President F. M. McGee or Mr. Leeds 
in room 103 Industries building. The 
fee is $1.80 which covers one years 
membership and the cost of the reg
ular S. I. E. pin. Your' membership 
card will be given to you after your 
application has been accepted at the , 
next meeting.
(Continued From Page One.) 
in constant motion, providing a most 
novel effect.
Music was furnished by the Techsons, one of the best orchestras in 
the city, and an all-Carnegie organ
ization. The dances were short, al
lowing the crowd to mix thoroughly, 
and adding greatly to the congeniality 
of the whole affair. At the end of 
the third dance, two large barrels of 
cider were rolled in, and served very 
informally. After the sixth dance, the 
balloons were cut loose, and two 
thousand serpentines, besides a great 
load of confetti, was distributed. Only 
the New Orleans Mardl-Gras could 
have surpassed the scene that fol
lowed.
The committee responsible for the 
remarkable success of this event is: 
Sid Slnith, chairman, Cal Hornbostel,, 
Dick King, Harv Shaugnessy, W. H. 
Quelch, P.urb Horner.
The dance was thoroughly enjoyed 
by all who attendedand that in
cludes a great percentage of the Car
negie students. Life, pep, and origi
nality characterized the affair.
THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS
The Night School of Drama brought 
us up to Thanksgiving with a pleasant 
little bill of one-acts, well-chosen and 
acceptably performed. The first was 
an episode of the French. Revolution, 
written by one of our former students. 
The theme is a trite one, but rather 
gracefully handled. Sincere and un
pretentious acting saved the melo
drama from absurdity. In short, this 
is another case in which the School of 
Drama deserves commendation for 
giving a hearing' to its own young 
playwrights.
The significant play of the evening 
was, of course, ONeil's incisive study 
in fear psychology, In the Zone. 
The play is a powerful and rather 
grim exposure of human nature, 
strained beyond the breaking point. 
Humor of a sort it has, but to a sound 
and discerning mind the lighter lines 
are ironic, rather than mirth-provok
ing: Unfortunately, the play proved 
quite too good for the audience gather
ed in (the Arts Theater. Everything, 
from the rough and simple setting to 
the. extravagant apprehensions of the 
fear-crazed sailors, struck the specta
tors as comic.
One Is under the impression that if 
those persons who were so hilarious 
at this performance could visit a 
psychpathic hospital they would laugh 
themselves ill! Nerve-sick men- are 
funnyto certain undeveloped men
talities. The actors, who were giving 
the play a careful and intelligent per
formance, were astonished by its re
ception. On the . second night Mr. 
Wallace, in consideration for them, 
made a brief curtain speech, explain
ing to the audience, in words of one 
syllable, that ONeil is not a comic 
writer, and that fear hysteria is not 
really funny. Thereafter, the play re
ceived something like serious atten
tion. The School of Drama, evidently, 
has a double task; to educate the 
audience, as well as to train the 
actors.
The evening closed with a delight
ful farce, produced by one of our 
alumnae. Miss Hazel Beck, "A Marry
ing Man. The spirited fun was well 
sustained by Clifford Edge and James 
McGrath, who show distinct ability, 
as well as careful direction. This 
play, being well within the compre
hension of the audience, met with the 
approval it really deserved.
ALLENE GREGORY.
Musikers in Excellent j MEEN 'S JUE 
Shape After Work-out IIIIIIMORBAQT SEMT
ADVISORY BOARD OF Y.W. 
HOLDS TEA FOR CABINET
Trips Being Booked For Feb
ruary and Easter
G. O. P. AND THE RADICALS";
EGYPT AND ENGLAND CLASH
For the first time siuco the Edgewood .Concert tjirgo weeks ago, the 
Musictll Clubs bud a rehearsal.. Last 
Sunday both branches of the organ
ization held a stiff- work-out, and the 
men are said, it is reported, to bo in 
excellent physical shape for their next 
encounterwhich will not be held 
until after the Christmas holidays.
\V. N. Aleshin, the famous Bellyacha Strummer. has given up his office 
as Librarian of the Mandolin club, he 
said, to take a part in the singing 
of the Glee Club. Inasmuch us he 
Is enrolled in the Operatic Technique 
course here at Carnegie, it was 
thought best that he do something 
along the lines -of Opera, hence the 
change! It might be added that he Is 
a designer for the Westinghouse Air 
Brake companyhoping to perfect a 
more musical brake.
February seems to be the time for 
concerts. Manager Lundquist says 
he has several towns up his sleeve, 
and Manager Poe professes to have 
a couple of cities in his pocket! That 
may be a figurative thought, but nev
ertheless, it is literally possible, for 
there are t,wo trips being worked on 
for this monthFebruary  and onother trip later, probably Easter. The 
Manager requests that the dates bo 
kept a secret, so we are abstaining 
from publishing them.
By way of practice, we are taking 
the liberty to call it. such, the Clubs 
are trying to book up local concerts 
for the days directly following the 
holidays. This is a splendid idea, and 
if any student or group of students 
feel that he or they can talk up a con
cert In their immediate homestead, 
the Manager would greatly appreciate 
such activities.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY THIS
MORNING AT MUSIC HALL
(Continued From Pago OneO
Captain Sherril of the Signal Corps 
of the R. O. T. C. will present com
missions in the Reserve Corps to a 
number of deserving seniors who havo 
worked faithfully for the last three 
years. This interesting ceremony is 
an annual event of the fall.
Obie Newman, in chargn of arrang
ing stunts for assemblies, has ar
ranged for two for todays program. 
Vern Olsen's orchestra will prosent 
a few selections. These symphonic 
syncopaters are not well-known around 
the school, but Obies uncanny ability 
for picking good ones in known, and 
his selection avIII not be disappointing 
Herb Polesle and Verner I-Ialden are 
also scheduled for a stunt which will 
be uood for many laughs. Herb and 
Halden are both dramats of ability 
and prominence. Herb will be remem
bered for his uncomparable treatise 
on the way Ethel Barrymore, Eddie 
Cantor and others would sing Yea, 
We Ha^ve No Bananas. Halden was 
his accompanist. This pair also wrote 
and staged the musical comedy of 
the Arts Ball of last year, a feat 
which required much originality and 
talent.
INDUSTRIES SMOKER IN 
THE UNION FEBRUARY 6
The Industries smoker will be 
held in the Union, Friday e.vonlng, 
February G. The committee has been 
appointed nnd is starting to lay 
elaborate plans so that this smooker 
will excell those  of Torinor years. 
The committee appointed is: F. T.
Plielp, chairman; K. C. Kornman, F. 
C. il-Ienniger, J. E. Smith, A. E. 
Thomas, C. W. Sandberg, J. O. Han
sen, A. L. Wilcox, C. J. Hall and 
W. B. Googy. The committoe will 
meot Thursday evening, December 
11, at the A. T. O. IIouso.
The Industries smoker Is always 
an event of interest' in Industries. 
Each class puts on a stunt and much 
hkldon talent Is always brought 
forth. A well varjetl and interesting 
program is always presented. It Is 
the only affair that onablos all In
dustries to get togethor and become 
acquainted, while as yot, on plans 
have boon made, It Is evident that 
the Industries smoker will bo ono 
of the high spots in the Industries 
social calendar.
In order to discipline the four reI uctionnry membersSenators Laj Foilette, Brookhurt, Ladd and Frazier 
j the Republicans have read them out 
of the party and henceforth they are 
| to have no part in party conferences, 
i nor be appointed on committees. Such 
an action cannot be condemned in too 
! strong language. As one editorial put 
it, No party in which thoro is no 
room for differences of. opinion is big 
I enough to keep hold very long of the 
j confidences and respect of the Ameri
can people.
j These men are not radicals, but 
. progressives. They have been elected 
| by the Republicans of their respective 
| constituencies, and as such deserve a 
I part in determining the party's poli
cies. It surely is u sign of great degenerney on the part of the G. O. P.,
I then they refuse to heed the voices of 
I the people, and we become less ac.d 
less a real democracy.
* * *
I Back of the present crisis in Egypt 
| lie many factors, which must be unI derstood, in order to gain an adequate 
! knowledge of the situation as it exists, 
j The facts of the recent uprising oc
curred when negotiations between 
Premier MacDonald and Zaghlul 
Pasha. Premier of Egypt, came to 
nothing, because of ZaghluTs refusal 
to take anything less than complete 
Independence. Mutlneering resulted, 
and, in an unguarded moment Sir Lee 
Stack, British Governor of the Sudan, 
was assassinated. British Immediately 
demanded an ultimatum, and sent 
forces to protect the dependency and 
her Interests. Some blood was spilt, 
but Great Britain has the situation 
under control. .
The war brought the world closer, 
and made the principles of freedom, 
equality and self-determination house
hold words and ideas. Greater ad
vancement In education has fostered 
thse same Ideas, so that we find the 
subjective races breathing with the 
spirit of nationalism and trying to 
throw off the yoke.
The only way to curb this spirit Is 
to keep them Ignorant, which Is now 
almost Impossible. Such uprisings as 
that led by Mussolini in Italy, Komal 
Pasha in Turkey, who practically do
lled the white racos, or Gluiudl in 
India, bespeak of the trend of affairs. 
Putting It In quoted tonus, The noxt 
step will bo Independence, and the 
end of the Empire. What Is at stako 
now is whether the great white pow
ers can continue to maintain political 
and economic ascondoncy over the 
Asiatic racos.
England realized all thistho seri
ousness of the situation and sousing 
the spirit of tho world and tlmos, 
Lano said, with guns, So far and no 
farther can you 'go. For tho time bo1 
lug Egypt has acqulescod, but this 
nolthor solves tho problom nor glvos 
the answer to tho question.
Lust Thursday nfternoon tho momj hers of (ho Y. W. C. A. Cabinet were 
j delightfully entertained by tho AdI visory Board at tho home of Dean 
j Brown on St. James street. The 
[ members of tho Advisory Board, who 
attended, were: Miss Breed, Miss
Brown. Miss Hillyard, Miss Topp, 
Miss Illbbs and Mrs. Church, wile of 
Hon. Samuel Harden Church, Presi
dent of tho Carnegie Institute.
This Is tho first, opportunity this 
year that the Y. W. Cabinet has hud 
to moot tho Advisory Bourd. Mem
bers of tho Cabinet, discussed tho 
work of the Y. W. this year, and told 
of plans for tho future. The Advisory 
Board offered suggestions, which 
might help tho Cabinet to make the 
students of Carnegie take a more 
enthusiastic interost in tho Y. W. C. A.
The Y. W. has decided to work for 
the Guild Carnival. Their assistance 
will probably be in the form of mak
ing candy. No doubt this will do 
much to contribute to tho success of 
the Carnival.
THE SOPHS THEIR ANNUAL 
BANQUET HOLD WHILE THE 
PLEBES PATROL OUT IN THE
(Continued From Page One.) 
Evans disappeared rather suddenly
after tho Froshmnn dance Friday 
night aroused tho suspicion that tho 
pair had been alton into custody. 
The Sophs caught Evans at tho 
dance, and caught up to HLHOCC behind 
the Syria Mosque. Tho two wore 
then conducted to a room in tho 
Chatham Hotel to rest up' for tho 
affair tho following night.
Although most of tho Sophs exporlenced little difficulty attending tliolr 
banquet, a few of them found them
selves in *he suburbs about tho time 
they should havo been banqueting, 
duo to Plobe activity. Thus tho 
Plebes went away hungry, uwaitlng 
the chance when they may bo able 
to eat at their own banquet.
PITTSBURGH PLAYHOUSES !
Alvin.
The San Carlo Grand Opera Com
pany will give a series of eight oper
as at the Alvin this week. Last night 
Bianca Saroya, in the role of Made
leine, Salazar as Andrea Chenier, 
and De Biasi in I he leading basso 
role, gave a splendid rendition of An
drea Chenier.
Tonight the company will present 
La Boheme, the most singable of 
the opera group. Wednesday Matinee 
Faust will be given, and Lucia de 
Lammermoor in the evening. Thurs
day evening Aida will be given. 
Friday evening Carmen will be pre
sented as only a San Carlo company 
interpret it. Saturday afternoon the 
company will sing Madame Butter
fly and in the evening II Trovatore 
will end the week.
Schubert-Pitt.
The second week of Beggar on 
Horseback began yesterday. It is the 
sensation of the season. Quick scene 
changes. Jazz Weddings, Arts and 
Crafts Manufacturies, Murders, and 
a very clever interweaving of sarcasm 
are the leading features, Roland 
Young and Kay Johnson are the lead
ing characters, and they are good.
Grand.
This weeks offering will take the 
form of a double bill. Milton Sills and 
Nazimova will be featured in the pre
sentation of W. B. Maxwells novel 
The Ragged Messenger: under tile 
name of  Tho Madonna of the 
Streets. In addition to this gripping 
drama, the Mason-Dlxon Orchestra 
will play popular syncopated melodies 
from various sources.
Davis.
Three features have their respec
tive names in the headlines at this 
theater this week. Maryon Vadie. the 
Classic Dancer is one of the two mak
ing up the . first feature, and she is 
associated with Ota Gygi the Hungar
ian Violin Virtuosa.
Frank Fay, Broadways Favorite 
Son  comes as the second feature 
with new monologues of eccentric wit, 
interwoven with songs of various col
ors.
The Avon Comedy Four is the Third 
feature, and this is enough to intro
duce the most popular group of men 
apart from Congress. Joe Smith and 
Charles Dale, Eddie Miller (not from 
Carnegie) and Frank Corbett make up 
the quartet, and they are famous for 
their interpretation of The Hungar
ian Rhapsody.
Edith Clifford will sing funny songs 
written by Eddie Foys son, accom
panied at the piano by Mabel Leo 
nard. Roy Ingraham and C. B. Elsasser take part of her act.
Lou Castleton and Max Mack have 
a skit. Claudia Alba and her feminine 
athleties have come from Europe to 
show amazing stunts. Palermo's Ca
nines will be seen and heard. Gos
ling and Cooper have a comedy which 
will have unusual mirth interspersed 
with somewhat of a plot.
Schenley.
In addition to the usual offering of 
high-class photo-plays, a unique musi
cal novelty will be featured at the 
Schenley Theater during the entire 
week. Miss Josephine Rochlltz will 
entertain the Schenley patrons with 
songs, being accompanied by a re
markable reproducing piano, while 
Mr. Sylvan Levin-1 plonist will play In 
duet with a reproduction of his own 
recording.
Florence Vidor and Edmund Lowe 
head the cast of Barbara Frlctchle, 
the feature of the bill offered on Mon
day, Tuesday and Wednesday, An 
Aesop's Fable and a Universal comedy 
complete the offering.
The Price She Paid, featuring Al-1 
ma Rubens and Frank Mayo, will be | 
shown on Thursday, Friday and j 
Saturday. A comedy and an Interna
tional News series form the rest of 
the program.
Longer-Life Campaign
Advice on health by means of bill
board fs giving way to verses and pic
tures on the subject flashed by elec
tric signs In the campaign to lengthen 
lives of Londoners.
CHRISTMAS PRESENTS! (Buy now 
to get best.selections) Wallace Nutting 
Pictures and Calendars, Inexpensive 
. Novelties with Greetings, Fountain 
Pens, Eversharp Pencils, Leather 
Goods. Monogrammed Stationery and 
Dle-Plato with Calling Cards, Beauti
ful Cards and Booklets (1,000 styles). 
Singer Pen & Gift Shop, Jenkins Ar
cade.
It stlmulatcn 
op putite and 
old dltfestlon. 
It maker* your 
food do yon more 
(food. Note how 
It relieves that Ntully feellnif 
alter hearly eatlnfj.
kWIiI(rn teeth.
Craig Restaurant
Tho place whore all the follows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
HONORARY MUSICAL
SOCIETY IS FORMED
(Continued From page -One.) 
the Song Book Staff will endeavor to 
work up songs to fit the various tradi
tions of the school, such as tho Bur
ial of tho Hatchet.. Tap day, etc. S
lections of now members will prob
ably be announced at the Campus 
Week Call, on Tap day.
The Clef Club under the new con
stitution will supply an organization 
which has long been needed at Car
negie. Up to this time there has boon 
no reward for work In tho various mu
sical organizations, consequently there 
1ms been no incentive towurd such 
activities except that of personal ben
efit. The Society will adequately sup
ply this need and should prove a boon 
to the musical activities on tho campus.
STUDENTS!
We Specialize Iu 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also iu 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
Students 
Matinee 
4 P. M.SCHENLEY
Students
Matinee
THEATER
Continuous 4 to 11 P. M.
Showing Amusement Especially Selected to Provide Diversion from 
the Dally Grind.
HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAY
Florence Vidor and 
Edmund Lowe in
Barbara Frietchie
Based on CLYDE FITCH'S 
play of tho most beautiful ro
maneo In Ainorlcan history.
An Aesop's FableTho 
Lumber Jack
The Girl Hunter"Universal 
Comedy
International News
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY
Alama Rubens in
The Price She Paid
By David Graham Phillips. 
With Frank Mayo and a cant 
of the croon bout aotora.
Follx the Cat"Goto Revenge" 
In the popular comedy serica. 
The Latent International News.
Special
Attraction
THIS WEEK ONLY
SYLVAN LEVIN 
Pianist nnd 
JOSEPHINE ROCHLITZ 
Voonllot 
Supported by 
THE STIEFF REPRODUCING 
PIANO
ALL SEATS 2G CENT8 ALL 8EATS 26 CENTS
Ymimmmmmmmmtmmtmmtmmmmmmmmtmmmmmmmmmsmmm
JUNIOR
'Me jnaster drawing pencil'
Invest Your Savings In Bonds
For ix.-raonul investment there are 
few tlilngti that oifer an many ad
vantage* a;i good bonds. Hafety, 
income and marketability aro the 
factor a that measure inveHtmeni 
value and In these respects good 
bond aro rated high.
Invent your money In bond. 
Whethw you can afford ono or 
many, you will find hero ntolllgent 
interest In your requirements and 
a hlncoro dewire to provide Invest
ments that will fit your particular needs.
And remember, you can buy good 
bonds la denominations as low as 1100.
Mellon National Bank
PittsbufrcSh, Pa.
ifm
F'
NextN
ii
D
I
amMH
fi
ISI
i
I
fe
Do College 
Students Read 
Advertisements?
Th eSo pSs iorAne eSo 
ruann rAlp Bqai StA
One fine day a Sophomore from a leading Univer
sity came to see us, suggesting that we advertise in 
their undergraduate paper, and "best of all convinced us, and this is how he did it:
FirstHe believed in Life Insurance because hi* unde (a good buaincss man) had advised him to buy some.
SecondHia Father died in the prime of life and 
good health and Jcft almost no insurance, when he could have carried $50,000.
ThirdHe also knew that he could buy Insurance 
NOW at half the annual cost hia uncle and 
Father had paid for theira.
All this convinced him that even though a student, he should take out as much Life Insurance as his allowance would permit.
What About You?
Every college student looks forward to a career, which will make possible the fulfillment of the most 
cherished desires  surely Insurance is a necessary part of this program.
Insure, in part at least the value of your educated self, NOW, making up your mind to increase it as business or professional success follows.
The John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Com' pany issues all forms of Life Insurance, endowments 
for home and estate protection, mortgage replacement, education of children, bequest or income for 
old age; also annuities and permanent disability. The John Hancock is particularly interested in insuring 
college men and women and obtaining college graduates for the personnel of the field staff.
If you have read this advertisement, 
you will aid your undergraduate 
paper by communicating with the
&
FNri dayvngahi Juosgaw
or Boston. Magsachuoetto 
197 Clarendon Street, Boston, Massachusetts
Over Sixty Years in Business. Now Insurln Over Two Billion Dollars 
in Policies on 3,500,000 Lives

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
- ! PLAID ATHLETICS -
Our] initial Cross-word Puzzle
At last we have -broken out with a cross-word puzzle. Every other 
paper1 in the United States has done it, everyone is intensely interested ini 
these puzzles, so why should we not fall in line? You will find this puzzle 
easy in places, hard in others. The distinctive feature of the puzzle is that
it contains some words familiar only to Carnegie students. If you like
this puzzle, let us know and we will see to it that you qet some more in the
future, and promise that the others will be better.
Horizontal.
1A venomous snake.
4Triumphed.
GAccommodated.
9Ensnare.
12Underground worker.
13Where Sheiks drink.
16What is done before exams.
18Nickname of famous football 
coach.
20Half.
222,250 pounds.
23To rival.
24An entrance to Carnegie Tech.
25Nickname of martyred President. 
27Associated with Spinner play.
29British Thermal System (Abbr.).
30Of two parts.
32Most ancient.
34Young female (Coloq.). 
35Recline.
36Stag attendance (two words).
39Wakened Rockne once, and 
wakens you every morning (two 
words).
42Stinging insect.
43Brother of'Romulus, and one of 
founders of Rome.
45Always (poetic license).
46Davy Jones' abode.
47Roll of bills (slang).
48Premier aviator.
50Other
52Last letter of Greek alphabet.
54Enquires.
55-r-A girls name.
57To dodge.
59Uniform.
60To care for.
61Cold substance.
02At times what a "prof thinks a 
student is.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
Vertical.
2Slender.
3Writing instrument.
4Part of the verb to be.
5Uncovered (Poet, license).
7Not old.
STo journey.
9Home of Overland autos.
10A beam.
11To perform.
12Center on a Tri-State football 
team.
14Denominations.
15Abbreviation of famous school.
17Highway.
19To tell falsehoods.
21Obliged to.
26The National American bird.
27A machine for putting hay into 
bales.
28Noted island near New York.
29Economicsinstructor.
31Stopped up water.
33To excavate.
36A brother of Cain.
37Legal document.
3SWell-known Drama student.
39Financial statement for ensuing
year. x
40To wipe out.
41What a modest girl wont do.
44A girls name.
46To look.
49Superlative (suffix).
51Electricals (Abbr.).
52Singular.
53Salutation.
54Sums up.
56Adams boss.
55Two articles.
On the Plaid ScreenCARNEGIES TEAM 
CONTAINED STARS
J. F. CHRISTOFF
ON ACTIVITIES
This question has been discussed time and again; article after articlo has 
been written about it. One would think that there is no new angle from 
which to look at activitiespossibly that is true. However, the writer feels 
very much discouraged at times when things do not run very smoothly, or 
it is likely that he has met with some reversal and wishes to vent his sploon 
upon some innocent bystander.
At any rate, we are rather discouraged, and have been all year, at the ap
parent lack of interest shown by the Freshmen and Sophomores in certain 
activities. We have been, constantly attempting to arouse interest in various 
assistant managerships, as well as calling for volunteers for the athletic 
teams. Responses have been unsatisfactory. Are the fraternities at fault, 
or the different organizations on the campus, or the instructors, or the Ath
letic Association, or the Administration, or does the fault lie in the type of 
young men who are entering Carnegie now? The result is with us, what is 
the cause?
A question that might have a bearing on these things is: Are the re
wards in activities worth the efforts put forth? We would answer that ques
tion in the affirmative. In the long run apparent injustices are corrected, 
in school, as in later life, differences and inequalities are ironed out and the 
individual gets out of a thing just what he puts into it.
Think it over, fellow students. Dont say Aw, whats the use? and 
just let it go at that. Take an inventory of yourself, find out just what you 
are putting into your school and your work. If you find yourself lacking in 
anything, make up your minds right now to overcome that deficiency. YOU 
will profit and CARNEGIE TECH will profit.
Every Member of Team Did 
Excellent Work the Past 
Season
NEW SPORTS AT CARNEGIE
Since our new gymnasium, one of the most up-to-date in the country, 
has been completed, some attempts have been made to organize boxing, 
swimming and wrestling teams. So far more results have been obtained 
regarding swimming than the others. The chances are that everyone of iliose 
sports will eventually be placed on the list at Carnegie, for the facilities are 
there and we feel that the students will become more and more interested.
However we cannot impress upon the students too strongly the fact that 
sufficient interest must be shown in each sport before the Athletic Council 
will give its official sanction and place the teams in! intercollegiate competi
tion. The chances are that this will not be done this winter, b~t it behooves 
every one of us to do our best in helping put the sports across unofficially. 
The remainder will take care of itself.
THE ONLY 
SQUIRREL HILL 1 
F LOVER SHOP
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dlthrldge and Bayard Streets 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pastor.
Bible Class ................................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A.M. 
League of Youth at 6:30 P. M.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
LUXENBERG
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
fiwing
SCHENLEY HOTEL
Friday and Saturday 
December 12th and 13th
NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.
841 BROADWAY, NEW YORK
THE FOOTBALL THEATER PARTY
The members of the football .squad were guests of the management of 
the Sliubert-Alvin theater last Monday, and the boys seemed immensely 
pleased with the performance. The trainer in the cast did not conform 
to the proportions of Dean Munhall, but he did his stuff just the Barne. 
He was also a little more active than Bert.
The Rah-Rah girls received tremendous applause for their reproduc
tion of our Skibo yell. We just wish some of the Carnegie co-eds had boon 
ill the audiencethey would have turned green with envy.
The boys voted Betty Lee a big success, and are grateful to the man
agement of the Alvin theater for the hospitality shown them.
Manager Dick Cutting of the basket ball team would liko to have more 
men come out for assistant managers. Several responded to a call recently, 
but more could be used very easily. Remember, credit is given iu P. T. 
to anyone out for a managership.
Correct this sentence: Yes, Maggie, I had to turn down Harolds in
vitation to the Junior Prom; he is entirely too tall and handsome for me.
Elsewhere on this page is a listing of the various teams in the intorfraternity-dormitory leagues. Are you satisfied with tho groupings?
If you enjoy the cross-word puzzle that appears on this page, pleaso 
tell the athletic editor. If you dont like it, toll tho editor-in-chief. He is 
not quite so sensitive and has broader shoulders.
Plans For Fraternity 
Basketball Under Way
Teams For Each of the Three 
Leagues Are Chosen
With football out of the way, basket
ball is claiming attention moro and 
more, and next to varsity comes fra
ternity baskotball. Last years closo 
race is still remembered but accord
ing to all Indications this year will 
see a struggle just as hectic.
At a meeting of the Interfraternity 
Basketball League last Wednesday 
the contesting teams were drawn In 
three leagues, eight In each. Nine
teen fraternities and five dormitories 
are represented. Each of them will 
play each of the others in its respec
tive circuit and tho winners will then 
be matched for the title, at present, 
held by PI Ivappa Alpha.
John G. Bright, president of the 
league, conducted the meeting and 
introduced several new topics for dis
cussion. Among these were changes 
in organization, equipment for the 
year, and affiliation with the Physical 
Training Department. No action was 
taken, however, on any of these ques
tions. Another proposal which illclted much discussion was the idea of 
placing.a team in the city Y. M. C. A. 
league;'this team to be drawn from 
the fraternity and dormitory material.
All games will be played in the 
new gym, it was announced, on Tues
day, Wednesday, and Thuc*lay nights. 
Four courts will he available until 
February, when bleachers will be put 
up. The main floor of the gym will 
be available for fraternity and dormi
tory practice every night from now 
on. Actual play will not start until 
after the Christmas holidays, how
ever.
The division into leagues follows:
NationalPi Kappa Alpha, Hender
son Boss, Beta Sigma Rlio, Woodlawn, 
Delta, Upsilon, Alpha Tau Omega, 
Theta Xi.
American  Delta Mu, Sigma Nu, 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Beta Theta Pi, 
Kappa Sigma, Acacia, Sigma Epsilon 
Phi, Kappa Epsilon.
FederalWelsh, Delta Phi Delta, 
'Scobell, Iota Sigma Delta, Delta Tau 
Delta, Kappa Sigma Rho, Delta Chi 
Rho, McGill.
Cage Practice For 
Girls Starts Today
Basketball Practice This 
Afternoon at 4:30
NON-DEGREE SMOKER, DEC. 10
AT DORMITORY CLUBROOM
A Non-Degree Smoker will he held 
in the Y. M. C. A. Club Room, In 
Scobel Hall, Wednesday, December 
10, at 8:30 p. m.
The girls baskot ball soason will 
start with practice this afternoon at 
4:30 in tho womens gymnasium. 
After Vacation practico will bo hold 
every afternoon, except Wednesday, 
at 4:30, in ordor to give all tho girls 
and classes an opportunity to prac
tico several times a weolc, If llvoy 
wish.
Class teams will bo chosen some
time noxt month, and tho Intor-class 
games will bo playod ofT shortly after 
tho exams. The competition Is al
ways vory lceon between tho classes; 
more so in baskot ball than In any 
other branch of athletics. Last year 
the freshmen won the cup and, of 
course, they are all set to keep It In 
their possession for another year. 
However, the juniors and seniors will 
help them to decide the important 
question.
Basket ball is certainly popular 
with the girls, of one were to judge 
from the large number signed up for 
practice.
The inter-class bowling champion
ship will he decided this week. The 
season has been a success, so far as 
bowling is concerned. Practice has 
been held twice every week at the K. 
of C. bowling alleys. Undoubtedly 
more girls would have attended, if it 
had heen on the campus. The results 
of their games will be published next 
week. In the meantime, girls, come 
out for basketball on Tuesdays and 
Thursdays.
. Carnegies football season has end' ed but tho deeds of the members of 
tho. team will live in tho minds of 
the students for some time to como 
Coach Steffen, with the able help of 
Bob Waddell and Doc Marks, pro. 
duced one of the best teams that 
ever trod on a gridiron under Car
negie colors.
Captain Obie Newman, at left half
back, was one of Carnegies stars on 
the offense and defense. His touch
down against Pitt will be remember
ed for many days to come. Keen 
judgment when diagnosing opponents 
plays showed his ability on the de
fense. Obies punts were always on 
a par, many times even better, than 
the opposing kickers. But, above his 
playing ability, he proved himsolf a 
real leader and a good sportsman.
| Bill Manley at center was one of 
I the stalwarts of the line. His passing 
and tackling featured in all of Car
negies games this season. At tho 
guards Cass and Anderson played good 
football consistently. On the offonse 
they opened large gaps in the op
posing llv.e, while on the defense they 
fought nobly against big odds. Yoder 
and Kristof at the tackles proved 
themselves capable of the tough jobs 
assigned to them. They broke up 
opponents plays consistently nnd 
rushed their line with tremendous 
force. On tho ends, Goodwin and 
Hable, ran down, under punts, receiv
ed forward passes, formed Interfer
ence and tackled with equal brilliance. 
On those sweeping end runs with tho 
end carrying the ball, those two men 
wero a constant menace to tho oppos
ing teams. Hable was tho most bril
liant man on tho team In diagnosing 
onemy plays.
Max Bastlan was a heady field gonoral, with great ability at running tho 
ends. 1-Ie was the host defonslvo man 
on the team bocause ho was a sure 
tackier, gave good interforonco and 
backed up tho lino with porroction on 
the defonso. Captain-elect Beodo, al
though playing his first year at full
back, oqultted himsolf lllco a veteran. 
Ills perfect exocution of tho splnnor 
play baffled ovory team Carnogio 
tackled this soason, Including tho won
der Loam from Not.ro Damo.
Harmon, Donohue, MoTort, Mohrman and Guthrie and othors, when 
called upon gavo tho host they had 
and proved that they woro porfectly 
capable of filling tho regulars shoes 
when noodod. Tho men who did not 
play, unhoralded and unsung, deserve 
credit also for tho work they did dur
ing tho year. Night after night thoy 
practiced and although thoy recolvod 
nono of tho credit given to tho regu
lars they are sntlsflod bocauso thoy 
did something for Carnogio,
BEU KEMA PLEASED WITH
SHOWING OF TANK TEAM
Captain-Elect
'DuiIgW leedf
The swimming team of Carnogio 
Tech Is progrossing In strokes nnd 
dives; as ono might sny. Coach Boukema is highly ploasod with tho work 
of all his candidatos, and statos that 
It may be a possibility that two or 
v three local meets can bo arrangod 
with Pitt and tho P. A. A.
There Is, however, a lack of good 
plunging and diving material, with 
tho emphasis on the formor. If there 
Is anyone In tho school who has ex
cessive avoirdupois and thinks that 
he has no clmnco in Plaid athlotlcs, 
this is his chance. Opportunity 
knocks! Your school calls! Plungers 
are needed nnd fat men are the best 
plungers. Therefore, the answer to 
the problem Is fat men. As thore are 
quite a few men in school with bulg
ing T.aistllnes, Coach Beukema ex
pects quite a few large (get it) re
sponse to his request. Practices are 
held every Monday, Wednesday, and 
Friday in the swimming pool of tho 
new gymnasium.
Students in general, and fat men 
in particular, heed this call and re
port at the time and place mentioned 
above.
MUSIC DEPT. PRESENTS
BACH CANTATA TONIGHT
Skibo Inn
(Continued From Pag One.) 
belief, to a serene and tender confi
dence in everlasting life.
The musical setting is unusually 
concise, with extraordinary freshness 
of invention and warmth of personal 
feeling. Solos and choral numbers are 
alike developed in most flexible forms 
and with a complete insight into their 
emotional implications. The whole 
composition glows with a peculiar 
tenderness of mood. Several poetic 
touches of a quite modern character 
are unforunately lost to audiences un
familiar with the chorales of Bachs 
day. In the accompaniment to the 
Sopranos appeal /Come, Lord Jesus 
is woven' the melody of the hymn I 
have cast my care on pod, nnd the 
final chorus, using thq words of one 
well-^nown chorale, sings them to the 
melouy associated with another, In 
Thee Have I Hoped, Lord/' The con
gregation for which Bach wrote un
derstood those implied commentaries 
as clearly as we do the passage where 
the Altos sing the funeral hymn In 
joy and peace against the Tenors 
Thou shalt be with Me In Paradise. 
The original accompaniment is scor
ed for two flutes, two viola de gamba 
and a figured bass to be played on 
the organ.
The program:
Giovanni Battista PergolesISona
ta da Camera for two violins, violoncello and piano (arranged by 
Riemann).
ModeratoAndantino Presto  Paul 
Kleyle, Harry Singer, Alice Fleck, 
Nancy Fast.
Johann Sebastion BachPrelude in B 
minor for organJohn Groth.
Wolfgang Amadens MozartSonata In 
B minor for violincello and piano. 
Ella Scanlon, Katherine Hessler.
Johann Sebastian BachA sacred can
tata, Gods Time Is the Best. The 
cantata class. Coached by Jean D. 
Seaman and conducted by J. Vick 
OBrien.
CARNEGIE FACULTY INVITED
TO SCHENLEY THIS WEEK
The management of the Schenley 
Theater, In Oakland, has extended an 
Invitation to members of the Car
negie Faculty to attend any perform
ances they may choose at the theater 
this wcelc 
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announcca a ocrleo of eight Sat- j 
urday Evening Supper Dancco 
In the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Davea 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
Courtesy Pittsburgh Post.
Tho twelve membors of tho past 
seasons football squad eligible to 
vote, mot last Tuosday ovonlng In the 
Graduate Manngors office to bostow 
upon ono of tholr number tho honor 
and responsibility involvod in tho ofllco of next yoars captaincy, and as a 
result soloctod ono of the most clovor 
backfiold mon that tho school has pro
duced in recent yearsDwight V. 
Boedo.
Dike" Boodos rise from an obscuro substitute to that of stardom 
has boon one of but a soasons dura
tion. Playing regular tackle on tho 
South I-Ilgh olovon of Youngstown for 
several yoars lie came to Carnogio, 
and hold down tho samo berth on tho 
froslnnan team. Last yoar Boedo wan 
usod as an understudy to ''Doc Tay
lor at contor, but was not usod a groat 
deal. During tho past season, howovor, ho played an Important part In 
ovory gamo, with tho solo exception 
of tho Ponn State clash, which ho was 
obliged to watch from tho sldo-llnos, 
duo to Injurlos. In addition to cross
ing Notro Dame's goal lino twice, 
Boobo paved tho way for tho touch
down against Pitt.
The captain of tho 1025 olovon Is a 
junior In tho Building Construction 
Course, a niombor of tho Druid, and 
Delta Skull honorary soolotlos, and 
tho Kappa Sigma fraternity. lie was 
presldout of the Industries sophomore 
class last yoar, 1 treasurer of tho In
dustries Sonato, and a Student Coun
cil representative. Boedo Is also a 
good basketball player, having oarnod 
his lottor last season with tho varsity 
floor squad.
Replacing Ohio Newman, who so 
successfully captained tho toam dur
ing tho soason just closed, Is a dif
ficult task, but It Is tho general 
opinion that tho squad could not have 
made a wisor choice for tholr future 
leader.
Plaid Hoopesters to 
Open With Princeton
Opening Game to Be Played 
in New Gym Dec. 29
The Carnegie Tech basketball team 
started regular practice last week, in 
ordor to got a smooth working team 
before their first game which is to 
bo played with Princeton in the new 
gym ou Docembor 21). Most of the 
men now on the squad have been out 
from three to four nights each week 
for tho last six weeks, gettiug into 
condition and practicing some of the 
fundamentals of tho game. The daily 
practice which started last week will 
consist of signal practico and play 
formations with considerable scrim
mage each night.
Ben Lubic is exerting all efforts 
this year to have a winning team at 
Carnegie. With tho new gym and. 
other newly added facilities such as 
a greater seating capacity and a bet
ter place to see the game aloug- with 
some of the best known teams of the 
country comming to play here, it is 
hoped that basketball will be a well 
paying sport this year.
It was hoped that after the football 
season the squad would be increased 
by several of the football men who 
earned their letter in basketball last 
year, or by some of those who were 
on the squad. Out of those that play
ed on the squad last yoar, who wore 
Mohr man, Boode, Donahuq, Mofort, 
Goodwin, Cook, and Newman, tho only 
ones who have showed up for prac
tico so far this yoar are Cook and 
Mohrman; but Mohrman will prob
ably bo ineligible until second semes
ter.
The squad now consists of tho fol
lowing mon, Captain Matter, who will 
bo ollglblo to play, Lynch, Conrad, 
Amens, Glanz, Harris, Bodon, Balir, 
J. Cook, F. W. Cook, Mefort and 
Mohrman aro oxpoctod to work out on 
tho squad for tho remainder of tho 
first somostor.
Captain Matter and Amens will play 
tho forward positions, and either Con
rad or F. Cook will jump contor. WaK 
ly Lynch will moro than likely play 
ono of tho guard positions. Tho other 
position has boon llllod by Gian/, and 
Bodon. Lubic Is shifting his mon 
arouhd trying to pick tho best combi
nation, and tho regular llno-up will 
not bo picked boloro tho Prlncetoh 
gamo on Docombor 20.
The schodulo for tho coming yoar 
102-1-1025 Is as follows:
Doc. 20Princeton, liore.
Jan. 10I'onn Stal.0, thoro.
Jan. 13Genova, thoro,
Jan. 10W. & J., thoro.
Jan. 20Pitt, there.
Fob. 0Grovo City, boro.
Fob. 10Geneva, horo.
Fob. IllPitt, horo.
Fob. 10Franklin and Marshall, thorn. 
Fob. 20-Droxol Institute, at Philadel
phia.
Fob. 2.1.City College of Now York, 
thoro.
Fob. 23Notre Dame, horo.
Fob. 27W. ti J., horo.
Fob. 28Wost Va. Wosloyan, horo. 
Mar. 0drove City, thoro.
Mar. 7Westminster, thoro.
Collegiate Barber Shop
L. Dnnlolo nnd T. Cicero, Propu. 
Quick Service by Four Expert 
Barbero
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
SHOES SHINED 
HATS CLEANED
Heres Help for the College Student
Why continue to write in slow, tedious long-hand, 
when with a Remington Portable you can turn out a 
beautifully clear and legible printed page with far less 
time and effort ?
It is the most compact of all portables. The case 
is only four inches high, making it easy to carry and 
conveniently tuck away in a desk drawer or bookcase.
it has the standard four-row keyboard, which for 
fifty years has been recognized by business as the best.
You will find it very simple and easy to operate, 
requiring no previous experience of any kind.
Price, complete with case, #60. Easy payment 
terms if desired.
CHESTER V. BUTLER 
Care Carnegie Tech Pout Office 
J. A. DOUGHERTY 
Caro Carnegie Tech Pont Office or 
254 Bellefleld Avenue 
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
102 Sixth Street, Plttoburgh, Pa.
Remington Portable
THE HECOQNIZED LEADER IN SALES AND POPULARITY

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE) FOU RTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
As the custom koos, post mortems 
nro held after every Kamo and season. 
This year, apparently, has its full 
quota, duo to its upsets and tho do* 
velpbmeiff of new stars of which tho 
Tartans have a share. Some of Car
negies games this soason will be 
played and replayed, cussed and dis
cussed until next football season rolls 
around. Brilliant plays will be com
mended, and possible results stated 
ifif ho had only got away or held on 
to the ball. But, in spito of these pos
sible results our 1924 record is his
tory, and one of which we can bo 
justly proud. True, we didnt always 
bring home the bacon, but what gives 
us our greatest pride is tho attitude 
and consistency of the team. Regard
less of tho last games outcome, the 
boys were always out there with tho 
same determination to do thoir best 
.in the coming game. There was no 
moaning over last weeks reverse or 
resting on laurels already won. Loy
alty is hotter orpressed, and a mans 
mettle more truly tried by an oc
casional defeat, than in a whole sea
son of victories. Our season was a 
good one, and we owe a lot to the 
boys who made it so.
One of Pittsburghs leading sport 
writers expressed tho thoughts of the 
loyal Plaid rooters in the following 
article. Ho points out a tendency, 
which seems so prevalent where peo
ple are not big enough to see tho 
relative merits of both teams:
"Carnegies showing against 
Notre Dame was a proud one, but, 
in spito of this, there is a tondoncy horo and thoro to take from 
tho Irish something because Car
negie made such a good showing. 
Tills is an assumption not fair to 
Carnogle. It would bo interesting 
to see what tlieso toams held up 
now as tho equal of the Irish, if 
not superior to them, would do 
with tho Carnogio outfit of last 
Saturday. Notre Damo was shown 
that what thoy needed was an 
aortal gamo to boat Carnogio, 
and we would like to know what 
other team boasts such an aerial 
gamo and, if not boasting such a 
fine overhoad attack, just what 
would It do to scoro *10 points 
through that lino Carnogio lino, 
and around those splendid Car
nogio onds. No team, It Is' ad
mitted] holds t hi forward pass
ing attack Notre Damo owns. 
With this in mind, iianio any 
other team you know that would 
scoro 40 points against Carnogio."
Dr. Benedict of Stockholm 
and Dr. Heyl to Speak
Big Affair at Carnegie Inn on 
Saturday, December 13  
Smokes and Eats
Man Engineering is Main 
Subject of Speech
After Honeymoon Mr. and 
Mrs. Conway to Make 
Home in Oil CityBecause of the approaching holiday 
season, no further series in the pro
gram of public lectures have been 
scheduled until after the beginning 
of the new year.
The first series announced for pre
sentation after the Christmas period 
will be three public lectures by Dr. 
Paul R. Heyl, well-known physicist 
at the U. S. Bureau of Standards in 
Washington, D. C., who will discuss 
Fundamental Concepts in Physics in 
the Light of Recent Discoveries, on 
the evenings of January 6. 7 and 8. 
The subject will be discussed in three 
sections, as follows: ISth Century 
Ideas, "The Transition Period of the 
19th Century, and 20th Century 
Concepts.
Another series of scientific lectures 
is announced for March 11, 12 and 
13 when Dr. Cari Benedicks, Director 
of the Metallegraphiska Institutet, at 
Stockholm. Sweden, will lecture on 
metallurgy. His subject will probably 
be: Some Points of View on the Kin
etic Constitution of Solid Matter; 
"The Theory of High Speed Steel; 
and "A Determination of the Specific 
Gravity of Molten Iron.
In accordance with the usual cus
tom, both series of lectures will be 
open to the public.
The marriage of Miss Jenny Finley 
of Williamsburg (W. Va.) to Mr. Donold Edward Conway of Fairmont', 
West Virginia was solemnized on 
Tuesday, October 14 by n beautiful 
ceremony at tho home of tho brides 
parents, Dr. and Mrs. Frank Wolford 
Finley.
Tho procession lod by Rev. II. Tan
dy Young, entered the room while tlio 
wedding march was played by Miss 
Lowell Jones. The house was most 
beautifully decorated with chrysanthe
mums, smllax and asters. Mr. Hugh 
Finley and Miss Leva Spattswood 
Finloy, brother and sister of the bride, 
accompanied the couple as best man 
and maid of honor. The ladles of the 
party wore all gowned in afternoon 
frocks of tho latest design and cut.
Mrs. Conway is a young woman of 
unusual distinction, noted for her 
charm in social and college life, for 
her leadership in athletics and school 
activities. She is a member of the 
Delta Delta Delta fraternity. She at
tended Rondalph - Macon Womans 
College where she received an A. B. 
degree. After receiving degree at 
Rondalph-Macon she attended Carnegio Institute of Technology, where 
she took post graduate training in 
social work.
While here she made many acquain
tances and was held in high esteem 
by all who knew her. During the last 
year she has accomplished much in 
public health work in La Follete and 
Jollico Tennessee.
After a wodding trip to Florida and 
New York, Mr. and Mrs. Conway will 
bo at homo in Oil City Pa.
CLEVELAND WOMENS CLANThe Margaret Morrison Alumni 
Bridge, held for the benefit of the 
Margaret Morrison Alumni Associa
tion, was held in the Recreation of 
their building on Wednesday avening, 
December 3. Although the turn-out 
was not quite as large as was expect
ed, those who came out report a most 
enjoyable evening. In adition to the 
bridge, which furnished the major 
entertainment, refreshments were 
served, which included some delicious 
home-made layer cake.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
The Cleveland Womens Clan held 
their November meeting on Saturday, 
November 15th at the home of Mrs. 
Maude Hainer Montgomery, 492 East 
108th street. A delightful luncheon 
was served by the hostess, after 
which the usual discussion of Car
negie affairs followed.
The December luncheon will be held 
on Saturday, December 13th at one 
oclock at The Bolton Square Hotel.
Miss Georgia Clark will preside as 
hostess. A short business meeting 
will follow the luncheon. Bridge will 
fill out the afternoons program.
CARNEGIE, TRUSTEE
CALLED BY DEATH
(Continuod From Pago Ono.)
Ho is tho author of tho words, 
which appear around tho ontranco 
court to Margarot Morrison College; 
"To Make and Inspire tho Homo;
To Lesson Suffering and Ineronso 
Happiness;
To Aid Mankind In Its Upward Strug
gles;
To Rnoblo and Adorn Life's Work, 
However Humhlo
Thoy Aro Womans High Preroga
tives.
Smiles i'i^ht 
b back at 
W you!
GUILD CARNIVAL TO BE HELD
ON FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12EXHIBIT OF PAINTINGS
BY ARTS FACULTY
(Continued From Page One) 
portraits of children. Mr. Simboli 
shows two portraits and one land
scape. Mr. Sullivan has a decoration. 
Mr. Solom and Mr. Wilson are show
ing a group of water colors. Mr. Dohner is showing two color prints, and 
Mr. Ellis four bronzes.
The, exhibition will be on for two 
more weeks.
Oakland Savings & ?
? Trust Co. 1
}.
Mombcr Fedornl Rcnorvo ?
!j! System.
' Cnfjtnl  ........................$300,000.00 
 Surplus...........................$300,000.00 
!* Deponltn, Over - - * $0,000,000.00
X SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES !
FOR RENT Y
European Tours
For College Men nnd Women
SUMMER 1925 
Ne Days$395 and up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if deoircd
For /ull pnrtioulnrn nddrann
NEW YORK UNIVERSITY
Tour Division 
Washington Square, Now York
THE HORSE $Q _____
GUARDS y
WHEN you see a fello who 
looks exactly right in this 
clothing do you ever say, How does he do it.' Probabilities 
ar, old man, that he wears John Ward Mens Shoes. They add a lot to a fellos appearansc.
On Display By 
Mr. D. T. Kirkpatrick 
at
SKIBO INN 
December 17
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
LEARN TO DANCE
at tho
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Boglnnors Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday ovonlngs. Private iossons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
Are j'ou going to wish 
folks a 
Merry Christmas?
.turatmtramswminmjmmmjmmm 
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET I
Artists' and Engineers' Mate- 1 
rials, Stationery and General ! 
Supplies for Students.q^ch Flower Shot
4527 FORBES ST. &<- CRAii 
. B.W.HAAS o^PHOKESCHENLEYiHCORfORAniD .----'ur.u. u-i.piT> or
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark 
and Philadelphia Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane st.. New York City
CARNE GAIVIS.AT
Fifth Avenuo Boot Shop
near 4JUH Street, Mew York
Th eSohps in irAnD
O you know at what low cost and yet how comfort
ably you can go abroad next summer on the United 
States Lines? Such famous ships as the Leviathan and 
George Washington have singularly attractive tourist 
cabins (formerly third class), set aside exclusively for 
Student Tourists.
Start to make your plans now. Join the thousands of 
American students and teachers who are going to enjoy 
a European trip next summer at minimum cost. Passage 
fares range from $85 to $92.50toEngland ($85 to$ 102.50 
to France) depending on ship selected. This includes 
scrupulously clean and comfortable cabins, a variety of 
excellent food, courteous service, ample deck space and 
other features to insure a perfectly dejightful voyage.
REALMEN,WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
AND
A Neat and Natural \ 
Hair Comb '
This pleasing, refreshing 
liquid tonic keeps the hair 
combed all day. GLO-CO is 
not a mineral oil or grease.
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIGSend the coupon for Interesting literature, including 
a Princeton Professor account of his actual experiences 
on one of these low cost trips Inst summer. Prac
tical itineraries and itemized costs are also included in 
this 32 page bookletevery thins to help you in perfectinK your plans. Get all the facts now so that you can 
talk it over at home during the Christmas vacation.Ye Old Schenley 
Lundh
At drug counters and barber shops everjrwhoro.
United States 
Lines
45 Broadway New York City 
Managing Operator or
UNITED STATES 
SHIPPING BOARD
Send for Sample Bottle
Mail coupon and 10c tor generous 
trial bottle. Nonnanjr Products Co., 
6511 McKinley YJ,1 2O' Angele, Cal.
THE ORIGINAL LIQUID HAIR DRESS
Picnic icnd me lltcraturc Includlnn tl'c booklci "Low
CoitTrlpito Europe." li I odale wlll bcabout--------
__________Therc wlll bc----------pcrioni In my party.Special 35c plate dinner, In
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
Addren.
Adire.
Series of Lectures 
On Physics and/VietaliT heSo psir A
THE BUFFALO CLAN
Harrisburg Clan to 
Hold Annual Party
FINAL PLANS FOR 
DINNER ARE MADE
Fannon Gives Talk 
To Industries Classj TELESCOPE jPRETTY CEREMONY 
STAGED AT HOME
