?
j MONDAY
TEA DANCE 
! UNION
NOV. 12
3-6
j FRIDAY NOV. 9
MILITARY BALL \ 
! UNION 9-I'll
VOL. XXIII, No. 7, PART LCARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1928.
Freshman Team Closes Season With 
Well Derserved Victory Over Penn 
State Frosh at Carnegie Bowl Sat.
Plebea Show Brilliant Form 
in Winning Final Game 
of 1928 Season
VARSITY CALIBER ISSHOWN BY McCURDY
Ewing, a Halfback, Co-Stars With McCurdyMakes Gains on
Under the leadership of Harry McCurdy, the Plebcs opened up a brilliant passing attack to turn in a decisive win over the Penn State Frosh, Saturday morning at. the Carnegie Bowl. There has never been such a do or die spirit in the Plebe grid machine as the one which characterized Saturdays game from kick-off to final whistle. Kcrmit Ewing >' ran wild throughout the entire- contest: .snatching passes, running ends and hitting the line. In fact, the combination of McCurdy and Ewing 
was superb.Although the field was akin to a quagmire, the Carnegie eleven used the aerial attack to deadly advantage, and a great many of their gains, besides four touchdowns, were a direct result of this plan. McCurdy without doubt showed varsity caliber in the manner ii which he handled the slippery ball 
iL takes a capable man to judge the pacc of a runner and to throw a wet ball that will even .conic near 
him.Captain McCurdy chose to receive and Penn State kicked to the Carnegie 40-yard line. Not making the required yardage, McCurdy punted to the Penn 18-yard marker. At this point Penn State elected to kick out of the danger zone, but their punter was smothered by the Carnegie line and it was Carnegies ball on the 11 yard Jine. On the next play McCurdy passed to Ewing for the first touchdown. Pounccy drop-kicked for the extra point. This ended the scoring for the first- half, neither team seriously threatening to score after 
this.In the second half McCurdy scooped ui> a fumbled kick-off and ran 53 yards to the 16-yard line before he was downed. McCurdy bucked the line for eight yards and then called on Ewing for an end run. Ewing came"through with - Meat ciglrt yard run for his sec- 'ojnd touchdown of the fray. Ewing  caught a pass for the additional point. The quarter ended with the ball on the Penn four-yard line.Starting the fourth quarter the Penn line held Carnegie for downs and the ball changed hands. The Penn Frosh kicked to the 10-yard line, but they might as well have saved their strength, as McCurdy heaved a beautiful pass to Ewing for another touchdown. The point was missed. Penns lone touchdown was made at this time, Las- irh intercepting a pass and running 60 yards for six points, their '.ry for additional points being tin- .(Continued on Page 5)
Printing Department May 
Be Made Research Center
The Rcicarch and Survey Committee of the Printing Industries Division of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers met at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, on Friday, October 26, to consider the advancement of research work in the printing industry.A report made at the meeting by the chairman, Director Jewett, -of the College of Industries, showed that many .research projects are being carried on in various parts of the country, but indicated a need for a great deal more in many branches of the industry. In particular is there great need .of standardization, of sizes of equipment and of paper.The committee discussed plans to co-ordinate all research activities and to classify and index these and' research date already developed for the general benefit of the printing industry; to inspire various other agencies to conduct active research, so that the numerous problems arc attacked bje many without unnecessary duplication; and to organize co-operative effort on standardization.To develop a broader interest in research and bring about a co-ordination of research activities, itis planned to organize a meeting of all technical men in the printing industry to be held some time next May, in conjunction with the A.S. M. E. semi-annual meeting.> Another matter receiving attention was the establishment of a testing station for printing equipment and supplies at the Carnegie Institute of Technology. In addressing the annual convention of 
the United Typothctac of America, at Quebec, Dr. Baker had said:It is conceivable that it might be profitable to the industry to maintain at one or more enters experimental stations where new equipment could be tested out in various ways before it is installed for operation under commercial conditions. In any case,I believe that some form of cooperation in trying out processes and methods could be organized which would rcducc the hazards of the individual printing establishment and which would be of benefit to the whole industry.As a result of President Bakers address, the Typothctac adopted the following resolution:Whereas: Dr. Thomas S.Baker. President of the Carnegie .. {Continued on Page o)_ .
1928 Student Directory 
Issued by Tri-Publications 
Contains New Features
to Have Booklet on by November 13 at 50c a Copy
The new student directory will be on sale on November J.3. It contains the school, course, year, Pittsburgh address, home address and phone number of every day student. Information concerning the officers and members of the student council, the four classes, and all honorary and social fraternities, is contained in the booklet, together with the addresses of the social fraternities.
Anyone who wishes to reserve a copy of the directory can do so by placing his order and the price, 50 cents, in advance, with Bill McNeill, Bob Wood, Helen Booth or Henr}' Bunker.
The directory is in a packet size, six by four inches. The edge of the paper binding is flush with the edge of the pages, making it less easily bent and torn. The covcris decorated with a general view of the campus. Maximum legibility was the chief consideration in the selection of type for the handbook.
Students desiring to act as salesmen for the student directory 
should report to Bob Wood, thebusiness manager,, at the SigmaPhi Epsilon house.
This year the directory is coming out earlier than last years. It will enable fraternity men to have athand general information about prospective rushees, and the plebcs will be able to find out where the fraternity houses arc situated. The student directory contains useful information for anyone at all interested in Carnegie Tech and its students.
Student Council May 
Change Appropriations
Financial matters occupied a 
greater part of the time at the last meeting of the Student Council. T h c Executive Secretary, Mr. Crandell, presented the operating statements of 1926-27, 1927-28, and the consolidated balance sheet of September 1, 1928. A suggestion was made that the appropriations of the Kiltie Band be increased, and that those of the Tartan, the Mens Glee Club, and the Womens Glee Club be cut considerably, and that the appropriation to the Y. M. C. A. be on the basis of fifty cents a student. It was also suggested that the chairman of the Budget Committee inform the Glee Clubs that their appropriations are , more likely to be lowered than raised since their present financial standing and activities do not justify it. A motion was carried to table the matter of the Glee Clubs until next week.
John Barr, Chairman of the Special Committee, asked that he be (Continued on Page 3)
Only 10 Days AllowedFor Senior Pictures
Individual pictures for seniors 
will be taken in Industries building 
during the next ten days for the 
1929 Thistle.
A schedule has been arranged so 
that each, students appointment will 
occur during one of his vacant 
periods. In case of conflicts, or 
just forgetting, the photographer 
will gladly arrange some other con
venient time. He can be found 
anytime between 9 and 11:40 or 
1:30 and 4:45 in room 2, Industries building.Seniors arc very urgently asked to come for their appointments on time. There will be no delay or waiting. A good picture may- be assured by a prompt appearance. Otherwise a rushed picture will have to be chanced.A dollar deposit is required for each sitting, and seniors arc asked not to forget it.
Collegiate Straw Vote Shows Hoover
As President by Overwhelming Majority
Complete List of Pledges 
Announced by Sororities
Long Period of Silence Ended With1 Calling of Pledges by Four Sororities
At 4:30 on Wednesday, October 
31, the period of silence which 
terminates the sorority rushing 
season, was ended with the calling 
of pledges by all four sororities, each having previously handed into the Deans office a list of the girls to be pledged.Alpha Kappa Psi called Eleanor- Cook, Katherine Barr, Betty Ycaly, Laura Hayes, Elizabeth Cannon, Ellen Vatidcr Voost and Helen Prosser.Beetles pledges include Gladys Woods, 'Evelyn Pfeifer, Betty Arles, Charlotte Mullen and Mary Waugh.Beta Pi pledged Dorothy George, Kathryn Hamilton, Helen Harrison, Betty Neely, Betty Hcnimeii- way, Helen Hptham, Ruth Francis and Geraldine Miller.Gamma Gamma Gamma called Harriet Hanna, Betty Goodwin, Olivette Hartzfcld. Frances Ardan, Dorothy Cully, Marion Howard, Florence Gray, Lois Newby, Esther Trout, Mary Louise Fenzel, Ailccn Marshall and Helen Chamberlain.The calling of these girls ends a period of rushing which, though not of great duration, was filled with interesting festivities. . After the' I-ntcrsdrority- Council had given- a tea which officially opened the rushing -season, each of the sororities . was permitted to hold four functions. These events varied widely, although each of the sororities gave a formal dance and al^o a tea at the home of some one of its members. The sororities activities ranged from treasure hunts, costume dances and- wcincr roasts to pajama parties and elaborate breakfasts.Monday noon, Octobcr 29, brought the rushing season to its end. The sororities then decided upon the girls whom they wanted to pledge, giving the lists of names (Continued on Page 2)
Annual Scabbard and Blade 
Call Made at R.O.T.C. Drill
Scabbard and Blade made their annual fall call at the ROTC drill last Thursday. The call was unusually large due to the fact that there were a great many outstanding men in the senior course. To be eligible for the membership in Scabbard and Blade a man must be a student in the senior ROTC course, and have shown marked ability along military lines. Scab-, bard and Blade is a National Honorary Military Fraternity of which Carnegie has the chapter known as Company G, Sixth Regiment.The following men were called for membership: Bob Rhoades,Wilfred Worland, Thomas Connelly, John McClure, W. A. Con- well, Henry Diltz, A. W. Miller, Roy Carter, Orville Seidncr, Irving Smith, Ray Johnson, Fred Michel- son, Russell Loxtcrman, George Cooper and J. H. Ferrick.The call was made during last Thursdays drill with the ROTC unit in a parade formation on the Carnegie Cut. Harvey Shaugh- cncv, Captain of the Carnegie chapter of Scabbard and Blade (Continued on Page 4)
Student Council
Sponsors Tea Dance
If the opinion of college students is  in any way significcnt of the opinions of. their parents, today should see Herbert,Hoover chosen as '.president by, an overwhelming majority. A straw vote in colleges of - the country - shows that 892,808 
students in 1104 colleges vote two to. one for Hoover.In only one section of the country, according to the straw vote taken by College Humor magazine, did Alfred Smith show real strength. He carried ten of the southern states, Texas and Louisiana rallying to his standard four to one. Moreover, in . two  other states,1 West Virginia and Kentucky, Smith lost to Hoover by the narrowest of marginscuriouslv enough by three votes in each state.'-Hoover, on the other hand, had the majority of votes in thirty- eight states and the District' of Columbia.Everyone of the eastern states' voted for Hoover. Indeed, in some of them lie polled very large majorities; in Connecticut, the votefor him was actually nine to one. In only one of the eastern states did Smith make' a good showing: in New York the votes , favored Hoover by only a nine to fivemajority.
Hoover invaded the solid South/' carrying West Virginia, K^n^ucky, Tennessee, Oklahoma. Arkansas,and the District of Columbia. While
the vote was close in some of the southern states, in others, the Republican candidate was comfortably ahead of his rival.All of the central states, all of the west-central ones, and all of the western ones, showed large- majorities for Hoover. The ratio of votes throughout these districts showed a three to one majority for Hoover.Of all the states in the Union, Montana was most strongly Republican. For evcrv vote A1 Smith received, Hoover polled no less than thirty-nine. Virginia cast the greatest number of votes- for Smith, and Pennsylvania the most votes for Hoover.As for the individual colleges, the greatest majority Smith polled was twenty to one in St. Marys College, Maryland. Hoover came within two to equal this record at Wheaton College, Illinois, where the students voted eighteen to one for him.Soinc of the colleges took the straw vote very seriously, the college newspapers, the fraternities, and even the individual students conducting strenuous campaigns for their favorites.Other colleges, regarding the vote facetiously, voted for Will Rogers, while others sent in such results as Hoover 128. Smith 120, Texas Guinan 2, Students dry and faculty nil wet.
International Bituminous Carnegie Day to be Observed 
Conference Opens Nov. 19 Tuesday, November 27th
Scientists From Twenty Nations 
Discuss Problems of Coal As Cheap Fuel
At. the Second International Conference on Bituminous Coal to be held under the auspices of Carnegie Institute of Technology from November 19 to 24. scientists froni 20 nations will, take up the problem of the extent to which cheap grades of bituminous coal may be utilized as fuel. The men .who will discuss this subject at the conference include the best-known of the experimenters in this field.
Carl J. Jefferson, head of the Fuel Conservation Section of the United States Shipping Board, who -is..-in . .-charge of the -experimental work on The Mercer (tlie 'floating laboratory of the United States) lias accepted an invitation from President Thomas S. Baker to address the coal conference on "Adaptation of Pulverized Fuel by Marine Boilers. Mr. Jefferson, who returned recently from a transatlantic trip on the Mercer" as a buriier; of pulverized - fuel, reported that the experiment, created greater interest in Europe than in the United States. When- the Mercer was abroad, he reports, it was necessary to hold back the lines of engineers and marine en thusiasts desiring to board tlii ship and inspect its equipment. We found some of them trying to get down into the hold to see whether wc mixed something with the coal to make it operate, Mr. Jefferson reported.. Rudolph Pawlikow.ski, of the Kosmos Machine Works, Gorlitz, Germany,' , is coming to the Coal Conference to explain the development of his new internal combustion engine which burns pulverized coal directly in the cylinder and which is now in commercial operation. Scientists see the Paw- likowski coal dust engine as a  (Continued on Page 2)
Bronze Plate Memorial to Mr. Westinghouse 
Is Erected by Employees of the Concern
Perhaps some of Carnegies students have been curious of late, concerning the curious sounds issuing from the vicinity of the Sclien- ley Park lily pond. The more energetic of these auditors have investigated and found a half dozen or more men busily employed in. some sort of construction work. They arc building the foundation for several bronze tablets which will be erected on that site to commemorate the late George Westing- house. All summer they have been working; now the foundation is practically completed.. Although the plans for the memorial were made in the latter part of the year 1926. the actual construction was not begun at the lily pond until last spring.' It was calculatcd that the work would be completed this fall, but due to unforeseen delays the huge bronze tablets will not be placed over the lily pond until about May of next year.
The foundation work is of highly polished black granite and is considered to be of great beauty. It is especially effective in that idyllic
setting of wecping-willow trees, dark waters, and lily pads. Atvarious intervals about the pond are marble benches, and at the end farthest from the boulevard, is the granite foundation for the .ablets. The foundation is a raised platform approached by two steps fromeither side. It projects out overthe pond in a half-circle bounded by a balustrade of the same polished stone.
The memorial proper will consist of a huge elliptical bronze wall, forty-four feet in diameter and thirteen feet high, resting on the granite base. A carved likeness of . Mr. Westinghouse will grace the span that will be divided into panels or tablets depicting important events and accomplishments ill his life. On the reverse side of the bronze wall will be carved a historical legend of the various Westinghouse companies and pictures of the numerous factories. Also, on the same side, will appear a record of the Westinghouse employes who contributed to the memorial fund. Directly . ^ - .(Continued on Pa^e 2)-....
Rockwell Kent Will
Speak on Art Exhibit
This evening at 8:15, Rockwell Kent, American artist, will speak in the Carnegie Music Hall on Art, the - Critics and the Public, as the third of a series of six Tuesday evening lectures on the twenty-seventh Carnegie Institute International Exhibition of Paintings.
Mr. Kent is well known as a painter, illustrator and author. He is the designer of the posters for the International and of the cover used on the catalogue. Last year his painting, Annie McGinley, was purchased by the Institute for its permanent collection. Others of his paintings are to be found in the Metropolitan Museum, the Art Institute of Chicago, the Brooklyn Museum, and many other American Art galleries. As an author, Mr, Kent is noted for his books, Wilderness and Voyaging.Although Mr. Kent has visited Pittsburgh on a number of occasions to serve on the Juries at Carnegie Institute, this will be his first appearance as a speaker. .His subject indicates that the discussion w*H no doubt be very beneficial in helping the general public to understand and appreciate the pictures, for. Mr. Kent was a member of the Jury of Awards for the present exhibition.On Tuesday evening, November 13, Dr. Frederick Mortimer Clapp, head of the Department of Fine Arts, University of Pittsburgh, will speak on What Can Wrc Know About it? The following Tuesday, November 20, Dr. Henry Turner Cailey, Director of . the Cleveland School of Art, will speak on The Acid Test in Art. The last lecture; of the series will be given on Tuesday, November 27, by Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., of Princeton University.
All the lccturcs begin at S:15 _?.nd arc, ogen. to. ihe, -jmblic* y
Students To March To Music Hall Where Ceremonies Will Be Conducted
Carnegie Day will be observed on Tuesday morning, November 27, at 10:30 oclock, at Carnegie Music Hall. A talk by a well-known speaker, music, and the according of scholarship cups will form the principal units in the program.
Clas'scs in all four colleges will be dismissed, from 10:20 to 1:30 in order that all students may attend the exercises. A parade will form on the campus at the hour of dismissal, and will march to the Music Hall. ,' The procession will be headed by the colors, followed bv the Kiltie Band. The R. O. 'J'. C. will appear in uniform. The Executive Board, Carnegie Faculty, and the students will complete the parade. Marshals for this event 
will be announced at a later date.
Following- a custom inaugurated last- year, all. scholarship holders will march to the assembly in a group, where they will occupy a reserved seat section. Last year as a further mark of distinction, the names of these honor students were included in the program, together with the donor or source of the scholarship. Many of these scholarships were "awarded to graduates- of Pittsburgh high schools. Others are given by organizations both on and off the campus.Students holding them arc required to maintain grade above the average.
Fraternity, sorority and dormitory cups arc to be awarded.at this time. The cups arc given annually to the individual fraternity, sorority and dormitory who ranked highest in scholarship in their particular groups the previous year.The marksmanship -trophy, which was won last year by the Carnegie R. O. T. C. in collegiate competition, will be presented by the don- (Continucd on Page 2)
Student Tickets to
South Bend on Sale
Final preparations for Carnegies 
big student football trip of the 
year to South Bend, Indiana, have 
been completed and tickets arc now 
on sale at the Graduate Managers 
office in the gymnasium.
The fare for the trip will be 
$13.92 to South Bend and return, 
with an additional expenditure for Pullman. Lower berths are available at $4.50 and uppers at $3.60. Drawing rooms are selling at $16.50 apiece.The student special will leave the Pittsburgh Union Station at 11 p. m. Friday, November 16. It will arrive at South Bend at 7 a. m., giving the Carnegie followers ample opportunity to sec the town before game time. The return trip will leave South Bend at 11 p. m. on Saturday, November 17, and is due back in Pittsburgh at 9 a. m. the following morning.Despite the fact that Rockncs Irish lads have been defeated twice this year, an interesting and exciting game can be looked forward to. Notre Dame has not lost a game on their home field in 22 years, and Carnegie is out to upset this enviable record. This game will give the students an opportunity to witness one of the fall classics for, with Carnegie out to repeat her surprise victory of 1926 and the Irish defending their unblemished home record, a real battle is on tap.In addition, Carnegie is sending the Kiltie Band along as an added feature. The fame of Carnegie and her Kilties has been spreading from yrear to year, until now the Kilties are one of the landmarks of the school.Besides the Graduate Managers office, tickets for the trip are on sale at the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad Station, and the City Ticket Office, 506 William Penny,
November 12 has been, selected as. the date for the Student Council Tea Dance which is to be held in the Union between the hours of 3 and 6. The Plaid Ramblers, a well-liked local orchestra, has been secured to furnish the music for the . occasion.The committee in charge of this, the first Student Council Dance of the year, promise a very peppy and, needless to say, enjoyable affair. Carnfigie students of last year-  will recall with fond memories the Student Council Dances of the past. The orchestra which will play at the dance is a student band and is very well-known about the campus, having played at numerous campus affairs,' the most rcccnt of which was the tea dance the- Monday after the Pitt-Carncgic game. The dance is being sponsored by Student_ Council and is under the supervision  of the cheerleaders, Bob Wood and Tack Von Fald.
The Plaid Song, Carnegies Latest,
To Be Tried For First Time At 
Second General Assembly Today
Honorary Cadet Officers to 
Be Chosen at Military Ball -
Announcement of R. O. T. C.Captains to be Made. Plaid Night Hawks Will Play
With the annual Military Ball 
only three days away, plans for this event, sponsored by the R. O.T. C., are rapidly being carried to completion.
The Plaid' Nighthawks will be present, to furnish dance music from 9 to 1, according to an. announcement by C. E. Ktnnpf, chairman of the orchestra committee.At some time during the evening the girls who arc to be ap
pointed as Honorary Cadet Officers will be announced. A short ecrcmony has been arranged by Bob Lockwood for the official in
stallation of the girls. Commissions will be awarded the girls in the form of insignia to be pinned cn their shoulders.
Although it has not yet been definitely decided, it is likely that the names of the men in the R.O. T. C. who are to be captains 
this year will be announced at this time.The Military Ball is the only 
event.of its kind held on the Carnegie Campus and is the first dance of any size to be held this year.It has become customary to hold it as near ' Armistice Day as possible. The date selected this year stems to opportune in as much as there is no football game scheduled for the following da}. Last year the University of Pittsburgh .held its Ball on the same night 
as did Carnegie and many students attended both dances. Last years ball was a financial success. The 
profits of the dance were used u. provide an R. O. T. C. smoker lat<;r on in the year. A crowd 
larger than that of any previous year is expected next Friday. An 
excellent evening of entertainment 
(Continued on PagC 3)
HERBERT C. HOOVER
Meetings of Theta Tau Is 
Addressed By Dr. Thomas
A meeting of The hi Tau, national Professional- Engineering fraternity was held Wednesday evening, Octobcr 31, in Room 113, Engineering Hall. Dr. Thomas of the Westinghouse Research Laboratory spoke on the Trend of Modern Research." Dr. Thomas explained what modern research is, what it is aiming toward, and the field which it offers.The annual fall call of Theta Tau fraternity will be made at the Engineering assembly to be held Tuesday, November 20. A meeting will be held Wednesday evening, November 7, at 7:30 to consider men for pledging. On Sunday afternoon, November II, interviews with prospective men will be held. A regular meeting of the fraternity will be held Wednesday evening, November 14, at which time men Considered will be voted upon.The fraternity picture for the Thistle will be taken on Tuesday, November 6, at 12:30 on the quadrangle.All members of the fraternity arc expected to attend each meeting.
Annual Arts Ball Will Be 
Held in Foyer of Arts School 
on Friday Evening, Feb. 15
Jack Barr, Sid Warner and Deverell Comprise Committee
Plans for the annual Arts Ball, 
which will be held on February 15 
in the Arts Foyer, arc already 
being made under the directions of 
the Committee.
The Arts Ball Committee is com
prised of Jack Barr, chairman; Sid 
Warner, secretary; Dick Deverell, 
treasurer. This committee will be 
aided by all the departments of the 
school.
A preliminary payment of one 
dollar is being asked, so that the committee will have some financial foundation with which to begin work. The payment will be due on November 16. All those students who do not pay the first installment on the required day must pay twenty-five ccnts extra, making, the late payment amount to $1.25.The 
promptness with, which the dues arc paid will be a great encouragement to members of the, committee.The committee will welcome suggestions from students - for the motif to be used in the decorations. Chinese and Egyptian motifs have been suggested. As usual, the period design that is selected will be carried throughout the entire program.Not- only will the Ball be a gorgeous spectacle, but it will also be satisfying to the ear, for the committee men are energetically seeking an excellent and well-known orclicstra. The music will be carefully selected in order to rank c quall}r with the quality of the 
decorations.
Freshman All-Carnegie 
Dance to be Held Nov. 6
The date ' of the Freshman AllCarnegie dance has been placed' at 
November 16. The dance will be 
held in the Carnegie .Union at the customary hours of 9 to 12.This dance represents the most important social function of the freshman class. . It occupies the same importance as the Soph Hop and the Junior Prom do in their respective classes. The freshmen arc especially urged to attend the dance in order to become better acquainted with the social life on the campus. As the name suggests this dance is also open to upperclassmen.The committee that has been appointed includes Relton, Woodruff and Campbell from the College of Fine Arts; Beck, Herron and Dudgeon from the College of Engineering, and McClosky, Croylc and Accipitcr representing Margaret Morrison. Miss Accipitcr 
*has been appointed chairman.The committee is holding a (Continued on Page 3)
Sculpture Students Arouse Much Enthusiam 
With Verdant Budding of Green Smocks
Why, asks the observant spectator, the verdant budding of green smocks at the Wood lawn entrance of Arts Building? Is it some Plebe initiation, or has the Eurythmics class wandered out for a bit of sunshine?Wrong again, replies the everpresent companion, It is only a few of the Sculpture students who 
have come up from their cellar to see the sights and breathe the pure Pittsburgh air.And this was actually the case. The airy room oh the ground floor the scene of a continued endeavor to reproduce flowers or heads from casts, and to shape forms from models. The room is a fitting introduction to Arts School. Its atmosphere is truly representative of that which pervades the entire school. A few moments spent in the room are sufficient to carry one away from the thoughts of the ordinary routine which the other schools necessarily encompass. One ean really succeed in allowing his imagination to build upon the foundation of the 
lie.cmcs 3j}d ?3-6jjF xeprsductipns
which are found there, long tales of fascinating Greek mythology. Certainly the ordinary individual cannot help wondering why any 
one who can spend his tinv* amid such surroundings should want to come out to breathe the pure Pittsburgh air.All attention in the Sculpture department, at present, is centered upon attempts to inspire oneself with and to carry out original ideas for aviation medals. Many are the mentally weary and discouraged sculptors who hesitantly decide to re-examine their precious, hard- earned medals with the technique of the design in view rather than the usual self-admiration that comes to mind upon the rare and seldom- allowed inspections of these medals, the natural goal of every seeker of education. One must really spend time thinking about such matters, if the result is to be worth while. Perhaps some of that time is spent in hoping that the ultimate wearer of what the sculptor knows will be his design will appreciate the sleepless-nights that
. - (Continued on S&aJX '
Walter Sickles of M us i ( 
Department Writes 
New Melody
ALPHA TAU TO MAKESEMI-ANNUAL CALL
Student Council Arranges Clevei Program For Second Effort.
The second General Assembly oi the year will be held today at 11:30. in the Carnegie Music Hall. Ralph Hitchcock, in charge of entertainment, will have a program arranged for the assembly. Just exactly what  is planned is not known. Perhaps, something unusual is . in store. -
Alpha Tau, Industries Honorary, will make its semi-annual call. Alpha Tau is the Industries Honorary which calls one of the highest sophomores, and a number of juniors and seniors, every year on the basis of high scholarships and participation .in activities.. Six men will be called today, five of them being students. The other will he a new honorary member from the| faculty:Another Carnegie song made its debut. It is a typical pep melody, well fitted to accompany the starting din of the Kilties. The song will be made public for the first time at the General Assembly today. If the song is received with enthusiasm by Carnegie students and giycs evidence of continued popularity, it will be included in the next issue of the Carnegie Song Book.
The words of the "Plaid Sour arc as follows:AVlien Notre Dame or Pitt or W. & J.Come along our .way, today Well treat them right and then Well call their bluff Then well treat them rough Til theyve had enough,For well be fighting for the glory Of Carnegie,And our pep will tell the story,Of Carnegie.When the fight is going hard well Get behind the team Let them.know we're fighting, toe With all our steam.Because were lighting for th< Glory of Carnegie.Wc must never let the boys Forget were there,For'where thefight goes down ii. fame,There will ston'd- Carnegies name, For we fought and played the game Carnegie!The author has arranged the. song- for the Kiltie Band and it will be played at the George toy" Notre Dame and N. Y. games. 1 
immediate success is antip'^it* The song. _ is written, by V Sickles, a junior in the mus partiricht and member of the Club. The song will be distrib in assembly, on mimeograpi. sheets,' and the student body wi sing it.
Thistle Group Pictures 
To Be Taken This Week
In order to facilitate Thistle plans this .year and to assure its prompt appearance, those in charge have made arrangements for all group pictures to be taken tin; week of November 5. Pictures, of classes, honorary organizations, campus publications, staffs, departmental clubs and interfratcrnity and intcrsorority council's arc all included on the schedule..
Students arc urged to familiarize themselves- with the program and to appear at the appointed place punctually. 'Organizations coming under the same general classification will have their pictures taken on the same day; for instance, honorary fraternities are scheduled for Thursday, November 8; departmental cliibs, for Friday, November 9. Thus, the schedule will be quite easy to follow, and so that there should be no plausible reason for lack of co-operation.Monday, November 5, 1928At 
Machinery Hall.Junior Class Engineers12:30. Junior, Class Industries12:45. Sophomore Engineer Class1 o'clock.
.Sophomore Industries Class-, 1:15.Tuesday, November 6, 1928 Arts School M. M. Freshman ClassO.-.IO. Arts Freshman Class1 oclock. Science and Industries,'Freshmen 1:15.Wednesday, November 7, 1928 At Arts SchoolVarsity Cheer Leaders12:30, Thistle Staff12:35.Tartan Staff12:45.Puppet Staff12:55. 
Tri-Publications1 o'clock.Graph ica1 :.10.Thursday, November 8, 1928At Arts School Aiortor Board12:30.Alpha Chi Alpha12:45,Alpha Rho Chi1 o'clock.Dragon1:10.Druids1:30.Friday, November 9, 1928At M. M. Entrance The Carnegie Guild12:30.Social Workers Club12:-10. Costume Economics Club12 Household Economics Club  o'clock.Friday, November 9, 1928At M. M. Entrance Secretarial Club1:10.The Science Club1:20.
Cpiitjttucd an agc IX

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. NOVEMBER 6. 1928.
ALUMNI NEWS
CLAN NEWS!
Northern New Jersey Clan 
At last the Northern New JerI scy Clan has a homea regular 
meeting place. It is Wilkins Cofi fee Shop at 7 West Park street, Newark (a block west of Broad street opposite the Public Service building), a beautiful, cozy little place with open fire places and ah atmosphere of informality. All future meetings will be even more enjoyable than the one held on October 23.
At this last meeting F. K. Zcig- ler was elected president for the coming season and accepted the 
office with becoming grace. He has assistants in the persons of W. M. Sheldon as vicc president, C. W. Gibbs as secretary,v and ChaS. P. Marsden, Jr., as treasurer.An interesting discussion of future plans was indulged in and plans for attendance at the Georgetown game in Albany on'November 10 were laid. We expect to have quite a crowd at the game 
and all who intend to go should get in touch -with one of the,officers, advising whether (hey have a car available or not. We hope, to arrange for transportation for all.
New York ClanA considerable number of the local alumni arc going to be at | the Georgetown game at Albany I on November 10. The game starts i at- 2 o'clock and we will get together at the Hotel Teneych for I an informal dinner after the game.
Announcements will be made at
the game as to place for dinner.
We have also been, advised by 
ft. Y. University authorities that 
they arc going to have a special 
train leaving New York on Friday 
night, November 23, and can ar
range for any Carnegie Alumnus 
who wish to go to the game with a round trip passage including a lewer or upper berth for $23.02 and $24.82 respectively. This includes railroad and Pullman passage. Lower berths will be applied as applications arc received. Compartments and drawing rooms will not be available and in order to secure the above rates it will be necessary to get 300 people to 
go. They do not feel that this will' be difficult. All CarnegieAlumni interested should get in touch with Ben Ross, 32 Wash
ington Place, New York City, telephone Spring 9300, giving address and telephone number. Money need not be given until the day before the game. Mr. Ross wilj get in touch with all applicants who should mention that they are from Carnegie and will endeavor to have all of the Carnegie men in one car so that they will be together on the trip.
Cabaret Dinner Dance 
Is Successful Event
THISTLE GROUP PICTURES 
TO BE TAKEN THIS WEEK
(Cent inued from Page 1) Saturday, November 10, 1928 Intcrfraternity Council  Arts School10:30.Inters'orority Council  Arts' School10:40.Womens Athletic Association M. M. Entrance10:50.
Six Hundred Carnegie Graduates 
Attend Largest Alumni 
Homecoming
Just as we predicted, the Cabaret Dinner Dance held at Webster Hall last Friday night, October 26, from 7 o'clock until after midnight, was a great success. Everyone there had more fun than enough. The Old Carnegie Spirit, which has recently died out to some extent, just oozed out of the doors of the main dining room of Webster Hall where the participants oi this 'biggest event of the Second Annual Alumni Homecoming were making merry. Having often heard of the "Old Spirit" of ten and twenty years ago we were slightly skepticalbut no more, for there was plenty of it around school last Friday and Saturday, when more alumni than ever before in the history of alumni affairs, returned for the events planned for Homecoming.The old -grads" seemed to have a better time than the younger onesat least they were more in evidence. This Homecoming differed from all others in that the old
er classes were as well represented as the young :c ones. Naught Eight" had a large table (seating more than 30 people),at the Cabaret Dinner Dance, and even this was hot large enough to accommodate all the members of that class who were present that night. This was their twenty-year reunion and no one who could possibly get back
Mnei Comparai Hieatres
SCHENLEY
STAGE ATTRACTIONS 
Changed Twice a Week
WEDNESDAY-TIHJHSDAY. NOV. 7-8
RENEE ADOREE 
CONRAD NAGEL
in The Michigan Kid
FRIDA Y-SATURDAY, NOV. 9-10
JOAN CRAWFORD
in Our Dancing Daughters
MONDAY-TUESDAY-WEDNESDAY
CLARA BOW
in THE FLEETS IN
MANOR
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 7
SALLY PHIPPS
in None But the Brave
THURSDAY, NOV. S
FLEETWINGS  *.
FRIDAY, NOV. i)
BUSTER KEATON
in THE CAMERMAN
SATURDAY MATINEEREX BELL in "WILD BORN
SATURDAY EVENING 
Mary AstorLloyd Hughes 
in HEART TO HEART
TUESDAY CLARA BOW
in THE FLEETS IN
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY, NOV. 7-8
FREO THOMSON
in THE PIONEER SCOUT
FRIDAY, NOV. 0
DEVILS SKIPPER
With a Great Cast
SATURDAY, NOV. 10
FLEETWNG
MONDAY-TUESDAY
SYD 0HAPIIN
in SKIRTS
failed to get here in time for this 
gathering. The Dinner Dance was 
really the second get-together of 
the '08 Class, for they had been, 
entertained at luncheon- in Dr. Bakers office at noon. Fifty-eight alumni and their wives attended this luncheon. Naught Eight rang out through the chatter of voices and confusion, rather frequently: their cheers were led by several' members of the class.Men and women from all over the United States, from California to main, came back for the Homecoming, and the Cabaret Dinner Dance was the biggest and best event on the program. It even eclipsed the victory over Pitt, if that Js possible. More than five hundred alumni and friends came to Webster Hall for the Friday evening event, and since the normal capacity of the dining room is only 400, it was necessary to use several small adjoining dining rooms and to put additional tables in the main dining hall. After this had been done there wasn't room to yawn. It didnt matter, though, for that is the last thing anyone there would have wanted to do. Despite the crowded conditions, noise, etc., everyone voted for a similar affair next year.The Entertainment Committee hasl, a most enjoyable program arranged. The Collegiate Imps Orchestra supplied the music for the dancing and. the Collegiate Six, a campus orchestra of a few years- ago, filled in the intermissions and played from midnight until the party ended. Ev Hughes, Ed Taylor, A1 Schoepf, Paul Irwin, Bob Schmertz, Larry Rank and Zarah Yardum furnished music which was keenly enjoyed by those who had danced to their tunes a number of years ago. Many of you will remember the Oriental Orchestra- composed of Ed Taylor, Harold Cullin, Paul Irwin and Ev Hughes. They were with us again dressed in costume and playing their weird tunes. ulin was drum major, of the band in 20 and 21.Several song and dance numbers were given by the Benedict Sisters, who had been engaged for the evening and who arc playing at the Nixon Cafe. Bob Nation served as Master of Ceremonies. Lillian Coleman, M.M. 23, entertained with a delightful waltz number and followed this with a livelier number as an encore. Carl Heinrich, a former teacher in the Art School, and his partner, Madeline Ward, gave two dances, a waltz and a .Spanish dance. Mr. Blackball, an instructor in the Forge Shop, left his evening class for a few minutes to come over, arrayed in Kilts, and 'pipe a tunc to accompany a. Scottish dancer. An 
encore ,was called for and the young, lad}' gave us the intricate Scotch Sword Dance. A niost amusing number was a burlisque dance by William Pillich and C, Paul Crofford, a former night student of the Drama Department. At the conclusion of the program several impromptu numbers were given by well known alumni. Jimmy R;obertson, famous football star was loudly applauded for his shuffle and tap," and Tilly Til- brook favored us with a dance. A1 Minetti led a cheer from time to time and helped to make the affair louder and funnier."The dining room was decorated with Carnegie Tech colors. The programs carried out . the same color scheme; horns, whistles, etc., sounded from every table, and paper ribbons covered the entire room. Hundreds of balloons floated in the air, but not' for lo.ng, and even though the dance floor was rather crowded everyone had an enjoyable time.The best part of this Cabaret Dinner Dance was the opportunity to meet again with former, classmates. The pleasure of meeting old friends continued ' throughout the evening, for there were so many alumni present that one was constantly finding someone else to 
shake hands with and talk over old times.This  event was so successful that it is to be on the regular Homecoming schedule. Next year, however, a larger dining room will be necessary, as this years was hardly large enough to accommodate everyone, and when the success of this affair is heard of by those who did not attend, there will not be room enough in Pittsburgh to hold them all next year.
Nearly all plants, at times, 
have these conditions to meet:
A change in production 
methods; the introduction of 
a new product; the need for 
greater production facilities.
Not only are these problems 
most easily met when the 
fuel employed is gas, but, 
with gas, they can invaria
bly be met in the way that 
insures utmost operating 
efficiency.
Rearranging or extending 
heating facilities, when gas
You cats do 
it better
with GAS
is -employed, often involves 
nothing more than the re
arranging or extending of gas piping.
Gas service can be readily 
taken to parts of the plant 
where it would be difficult, 
if not impossible, to apply 
other forms of heat.
The availability of gas to all 
parts of the plant is but one of 
many advantages inherent in 
this superior fuel. Your local gas 
company will be glad to tell you 
of all these advantages and what 
they will mean to your plant. 
Telephone or write them today.
For free copy of book, "Industrial Qas Heat, address
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York City
m-m-wmi.ii imwrfw-n n m 11111111 m i m n=
W. J. Blenko Achieving
Success As Attorney
W: J. Blenko, a member of the firm Bakewell, Byrnes & Stebbins, Farmers Bank Building, is making a name for himself as a patent attornej-. It is the opinion of many that Mr. Blenko will be, in 
the near future, one of the leading patent attorneys of the country. The work that lie is doing makes Carnegie proud to have him as an alumnus.While an undergraduate Mr. Blenko was very active in campus affairs. His leadership was manifest throughout the four 'years 
spent at Carnegie Tech. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon social fraternity, also, by virtue of his brilliant scholastic attainments, he was called by Tau Beta Pi.Mr. Blenko received his degree in 1921, in the Mechanical Engineering course. After graduation Mr. 
Blenko studied law at Duqucsnc University.
He served as President of the Alumni Federation and for the year 1927-28 and was re-elected to that 
office for present year.
BRONZE PLATE MEMORIAL TO MR. WESTINGHOUSE
(Continued from Page 1) in front of the bronze wall on the promentory that extends into the miniature lake, will be the figure of an American youth gazing with inspired pride at the accomplish ments of the master.This magnificent memorial has been made possible bv the contributions of the employees of the various .Westinghouse Companies,
THE LADDER
f November 23 Selected
Josephine McGrail
Singing a musicians program, 
Mis Josephine McGrail appeared 
before an enthusiastic audience at 
the high school, auditorium, Park
ersburg, West Virginia, Wednes
day evening, October 3. Miss Mc
Grail, who has received her musi
cal training at Carnegie Institute 
oi Technology, is a young concert 
singer whose voice displays a great 
talent and her ease in handling the 
difficult program is evidence that 
her technical training is sound. An 
effective stage presence and charm 
of manner assisted her in winning 
the hearts of her audience.
The program of the evening was 
arranged in five groups of French, 
Italian, German, English and Amer
ican songs. In the group of French 
songs she was especially attractive 
to her audience in "The Bluebird 
of Dalcroze, a modern French com
poser. The first section of her program was closed with Mozarts. .Recitative cd aria Non mi dir art extremely difficult Eighteenth 
Century Italian selection in which the full range of her voice and the pyrotechnics of vocal music 
were employed.In her fourth group Miss McGrail sang three German Lieder from Seventeenth Century and modern German composers. The fifth and concluding group of four songs was taken from English and Americans, all modern composers. English composers were represented in Summer of Martin Shaw.I-Icffic Cuckoo Fair from the same composer and- "The White Peace of Arnold Bax. The American selection was the May-Day 
Carol of Deems Taylor.;Matthew Frey, a leader in the musical world of Pittsburgh, ac
companied Miss McGrail at? the 
piano.Miss McGrail, who is a granddaughter of Mrs. Margaret McGrail of Lynn street, returned to Pittsburgh October 4. She is an 
instructor in vocal music at Du- quesnc University. She is a member of the Music Department of the class of June, 1928, and received her B. A. degree here at Carnegie..
Maxwell SholesThe Theater Guild of St. Paul, as it continues to be called until 
further notice, is fortunate in having secured as director a young man with quite a glittering reputation for his past work and accom
plishments. lie is a round product of- the theater, a former student of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, who has worked in the professional theater, both as actor 
and as director.Maxwell Sholes comes with the 
highest recommendation from the men with whom he has worked. Among them are such important people of the stage as Brock Pemberton, Ruben Mamoulian and Horace Liveright, producer of "An American Tragedy.
George Duryea George Duryea, the young hero 
of "The Godless Girl, is new in pictures, but he has roamed the world in a career on the stage.
George comes from the SleepyHollow, made famous by Washington Irvings story, .The Legend f,f Sleepy Hollow and as a child lie knew the district in which the Headless Horseman was wont t gallop in the moonlight.However, George is not of Dutch ancestry. His parents are ofFrcnch-Irish descent. George loved the stage, even as a child, and al though lie went to Carnegie Tech to prepare for his life work, he could not stay there. The lureof the theaters was loo strong.So George started out on his adventures. He played the role of Abie in Abies Irish .Rose when that comedy was touring the South 
Seas.It was a wonderful experience,' says George. We were 20 days on the , water, going to Australia and five days on the water from Australia to New Zealand. We played in towns that seldom sawstage shows. How the audiences 
cheered us! And once we played a town which was known as the farthest south of any inhabited community. The South Pole wasnt so many thousand .miles away and it gave me quite a thrill.
Duryea has done much wandering in his life, but now he would 
like to settle down in Hollywood and become a star in 'pictures.
COMPLETE LIST OFPLEDGES ANNOUNCED
(Continued from Page 1) to the Dean of Women. The rushees likewise sent to the deans office the names of the sororities whose bids they would accept. During the period, any communication between the rushees and the acti.ve sorority members was forbidden by Intersorority Council.At 4:30 last Wednesday, the sororities approached each girl whom they were calling, welcoming her as a pledge of the sorority. A hilarious and impromptu celebration accompanied these calls.The girls called are now under strict rules laid down by each sorority. They are at the beck and call of their sisters-to-be, must do certain unpleasant duties, and refrain from pleasures. After a period sufficient in length to test the qualities of the pledges, they will be initiated into the sorority.The rushing rules; framed by the Intersorority Council and in effect now for several years, were closely adhered to throughout the 192S rushing season, not a single fraction of them having been re 
ported .
As Carnegie Dollar Day
Many Alumni to Attend 
Georgetown Game Nov. 10
Carnegie Dollar Day was a new 
event established last year. It is 
rapidly becoming, or perhaps is by 
now, a tradition. It has been de
cided by Trustees that November 
23 will be the date for Dollar Day 
this year.
Some interesting facts arc con
nected with the first dollar day 
held last year. The sum of $600 
was turned over to the Endow
ment Fund Commitcc. That was 
very encouraging indeed. Another 
thing that was very pleasing was 
the spirit shown by those who 
contributed.
There have been $68 collected 
already this year. Every alumnus 
should contribute to this fund and 
thereby make Dollar Day go over 
the top. You do not have to 
wait till November^ to send your 
dollar.
Perhaps it might interest you to 
know that students contributed last 
3rear also. On November 27 there 
will be a tag day, at which time 
each student will be asked to add 
something to the fund. You will 
not want to think that the stu
dents are more willing than youclf. Let the Endowment Fund 
Committee hear from the 5,200 
alumni on the alumni office mail
ing list.
To show tljat interest has al
ready been shown this year, we 
print the following letter received 
from Mrs. Harry Hart, formerly 
Anna B. Smith, the first dean of 
Margaret Morrison.
October 16, 1928 
Dear Al,I believe that I am an honorary member of your family by virtue of having been Margaret Morrison's first Deanso I am privileged to offer this humble contribution for Dollar Day.
With warmest regards jilways, "Anna B. Smith Hart.(Mrs. Harry Hart)
CARNEGIE DAY TO BE
OBSERVED NOV. 24
(Continued from Page 1) 
ors, the American Society of Military Engineers.The speaker for Carnegie Day will be in all probability a leader in industry. The presidential campaign and the consequent cam paign activities of most business men have prevented definite work as to the name of the men.Dr. _ Frederick P. Kcppel lias been invited to make the main address, but since lie is campaigning for a political party, his reply w.il not be made until after election day. More definite information will appear in a later issue of the Tartan.Immediately after the Carnegie Day exercises, the Hammerschlag Memorial tablet will be unveiled with appropriate ceremonies. This tablet which will be placed on the North wall of the Administration building, will commemorate the death of Carnegies first president.
INT. BITUMINOUSOBSERVED NOV. 27
A great many Alumni have or
dered tickets for the game with 
Georgetown at Albany. It is ex
pected therefore that there will be 
quite a large crowd of Carnegie Alumni at Albany, November 10. Kay Gill of the Schenectady Clan sent a telegram saying,' Ren- devouz at Teneych Hotel in Albany before and After the Georgetown Game. There will be an informal dinner and dance. No reservations are necessary.The New York and Northern New Jersey Clans have also made )lans to go to the game. It should )e a great game, and with all the Carnegie Alumni that arc going everyone should have a big time. Wc print a list of those who have made reservations for tickets to this game. Nearly all of thosewho made reservations arc securing four or more tickets. RoyGill ordered eleven for the gangn Schenectady.Those who have ordered tickets arc:T. L. Glcsson, A15.H. G. Sillich, E 22.L. J. Morris, I23.R. F. Soule, E 18.M. P. Murphy, Jr., E 16.E. Robertson, E 24.P. S. . Miller, E 19.E. G. Rayston, E 23.R. D. Gill, I 26:T. Barney, A 24.Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Coleman, E 23 and M 21.E. A. Brand, E 23.H. M. Sinclair, E 21.William F. Gallagher, I 24.A. M. Bclden, E 24.W. Ii. Norman, E 17.H. C. Kreisle, A 23.A. C. Temniel, E 24.G. L. Til brook, E 15..M. McDonald, E 23.J. F. Mullancy.
(Continued from Page 1) serious threat to the gasoline industry if it can be proved that an internal combuston engine can utilize , coal dust as well as gaso1 linc. _ It is not generally known, President Baker has pointed out, that the original Diesel engine was designed for powdered coal, but 
was later abandoned because the ash deposits destroyed the bearings. Pawlikowrski claims to have overcome the technical difficulties and that lie is now ready, to launch 
his new engine.Other German authorities who will speak on new developments in the use of powdered coal at the Carnegie Conference include Dr. Ing. M. Dolcli, director of the Institute of Technical Chemistry of the University of Halle-Saale; Dr. Ing. I. P. Goosens, of Messrs, Goosens, Lochncr and Co., Aachen Dr. Ing. P. Rosin, of Dresden; and Baurat Walter Kleinow, of Iien- ningsdorf, who will describe the powdered coal locomotive of the General Electric Company in Germany.Henry Kreisinger, research en ginecr of the International Combustion Engineering Corporation, 
New York, who is considered to be the foremost authority in the United States on the use of pulverized coal, will also take part in the discussions. Others who have accepted invitations to speak on phases of the use of pulverized coal are Dr. George E. K. Blythe, general manager of the Buell Coin-' bustion Co., Ltd., London, and Professor L. E. Ramsin, director of the Thermotechnical Institute, Moscow.Recent developments in the use of pulverized coal as fuel for ships and in furnaces and even in internal combustion engines have attracted the attention of both the scientists and the coal operators.The coal operators in particular are showing an interest that is more economical than scientific.Successful use of  pulverized coal, they realize, will open up vast new markets for the cheaper grades of coal which cannot be utilized as fuel in their present form.An obstacle in the widespreaduse of _ powdered coal, however, is the high explosibility of the pulverized product. Although its use has been successfully demonstrated on the Mercer, the floating laboratory of the United States Shipping Board, no insurance company, including Lloyd's, has been willing 
to insure the Mercer because of the high explosibility of powdered coal.In addition to the discussions on powdered coal, the conference
SCULPTURE STUDENTS
AROUSE ENTHUSIASM
(Continued from Page 1) 
went into perfecting the work. And 
perhaps some of the desperate students begin to think that ability to fly and to earn the medal can be cultivated in less time than it take's 
to design one.Be that as it may. the sculpture work proves fascinating to the observer, so fascinating, in f*ct, that he cannot properly adjust himself to commonplace surrounditigs after one visit to the sculpture department. No doubt, -that accounts for the presence of stray Maggie Murplis and Engineers in the 
studio.
will consider such subjects as liquefaction and hydrogenation of coal, fertilizers from coal, synthetic rubber from coal, piping of power from the mine-mouth to distant cities, tars and oils from coal, low temperature distillation, high temperature distillation, purification and cleaning of coal, combustion in furnaces, origin, composition and classification of coal and gas production.
About 2,500 scientists, engineers and coal operators, including more than one hundred speakers, arc expected to attend the conference sessions.
Girls Hot Tip 
Steers Student 
to Favorite 
Pipe Tobacco
San Francisco, Cal.
Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:Since I first started to smoke, I have always smoked cigarettes.One day SHE said to me "Ed, dear, why dont you smoke a pipe. I think those long straight-stemmed pipes are so manly-looking.So, naturally, I had to buy a lonjr- stemmed pipe and a can of well, wc 11 call it Blubs Mixture tobacco. Immediately with a# certain feeling of pride ill my new pipe, I lighted up and proceeded to have my tongue bitten. I tried almost every brand I had ever heard of, but none satisfied me.Sadly, I had to confess to HER that as a pipe smoker I was a good die
titian. 1 1Did you try Edgeworth? she asked. That is what dad smokes, and lies always smoked a pipe.So I was forced to try Edgeworth, and all that I can say is that if every fellow that has tried to accustom himself to a pipe, started with Edgeworth, there would be very few that would go back to cigarettes.Yours sincerely,Ed Maher
Eclgewortli
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Standard Makes of Tires
ASHBY & MINTEER TIRE SERVICE
VULCANIZINGCOMPLETE TIRE SERVICE
15 Broad Street, East End Hiland 1460
OWARD HARPSTER
christened this 
Parkleigh Hat
The Tech Tilt
When the major-domo of the Tartan 
Football Squad likes a hat well enough 
to coin a snappy name for it . . . that 
hat must be a wow. It took one of 
Gimbels exclusive Parkleigh hats to 
raise Howdys enthusiasm to that 
point. What more can we say for it. 
Come in and see for yourself!
Parkleighs are $5 
the Year *Round
GIMBELS
Sixth Avenue at Smithfield Street

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTSlbe Carnegie flMai
THE OFFICIAL 
NIGHT STUDENTS 
PAGE.
First Charettc In Puppet To Co=Operate 
Architecture Over With Night Students
Sounds emanating from the second floor of the College of Fine Arts heard all the past week at night indicated nothing more than that the students in Architecture were on a Charettc.Docs that mean anything? 'Well, ratherdrop in during this nerve racking period sometime and you will be treated to an experience not io be forgotten, especially during the Inst three nights.Arc they working? To be sure and, only they know what it is all about. Every gem of architecture from the colossal to the minute is rehashed and rehashed until there arises a problem worthy of a mcn- iion.Keep up the good work Night Architects. At the next judgment we know that Carnegie men will take a!l the high honors as usual. The results will be announced later.
SCHOOL SPIRIT
What is meant by school spirit?" To each of us it ha? a different meaning depending upon .ones disposition and temperament. One At;*.dent will go all over town shouting and yelling his college's praises while mother will quietly sit by and apparently show no interest' whatsoever in things per- liming to the campus. Both think they arc exhibiting the true spirit of the school and each is apt to scoff at the others methods.My interpretation of school i spirit is in a broader sense than cither of the above extreme cases mentioned and to others may seem just as foolish. Every one of us should show an interest in all of the affairs of the campus. Not all of Us can be class representatives at the same time, but we can co-operate to the fullest extent 
with those whom wc have elected to these positions. If there be
The Puppet has had a change of heart. Those who have been on the Campus for several years will know what wc mean. It is quite pleasing to note the attitude of this years 
officers towards the night students, and those On both sides responsible for bringing about this change arc to be complimented.Under the new arrangement one night student is to be Circulation Manager. This man will have charge of the distribution on _ the Night Campus and will recruit his crew from the night students. About _ 15 men will be required for this job and since wc arc anxious to reciprocate the Puppets offer, : 11 men who arc willing to comc out . two or three nights a month from 7:00 to 7:30 p.. m., are going to be given a 
chance.Contributions from the students will be accepted providing, of course, j it meets the standards set by the staff. Those inclined in a humorous way now have thei-p chance to show what they can do and wc hope they will take advantage: of this oppor
tunity.Suitable awards will be made commensurate with the work expended 
by the students. Now. heres your chance to show your stuff, arid wc hope that everyone will co-opcratc to make this new venture a succcss.
a dance or a smoker, we should make it our business sto be there, and if a meeting be callcd for the purpose of conducting some business pertaining to the student body, wc should be there. Wc should attend the football games and do our share of the rooting.- By doing these things wc show our' interest in the school and its 
affairs.As regards the Fine Arts, school spirit could certainly be improved to a far greater extent. True,
P. M. I.FIFTEEN INFORMAL PROGRAMS
New and novel series of\ illustrated lecture-recitals, for the general public; Thursday evenings, beginning November-8. Phone Mayflower 1000 for circular and rates.
PITTSBURGH MUSICAL INSTITUTE, INC.
131-133 BELLEFIELD AVENUE. PITTSHUItGH. PA.
All Makes of Typewriters, New and Used 
SoldRented-Repaired
FITE NOEE RMALPTOELT GISC apiS
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 8320 
New Main Store 
McCloy BIdg.
624 LIBERTY AVE.
Branch Store 
428 FOURTH AVE.
Life InsuranceJohn Hancock 
John HancockLife Insurance
That connection, work/i 
cither way in good headi.
tlL ap$3T0piL GI, A0u
O* BOSTOM. MAMCNUm*
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
Capital $300,000 Surplus $300,000
A Logical Place for 
Your Bank Account
1 FIFTH AND OAKLANDPITTSBURGH
Passes For Price 
Reduction Of Movie
Theater Tickets
Apparently Not Much Demand in 
the Night Group for 
This Concession.
Apparently few of you desire to 
take advantage of the reduction in 
price of the theater tickets for ll\e 
Stanley-Clurk-Davis theaters. This 
is not surprising since it was men
tioned in a previous issue that 
these passes would not be of much uyj to the average night student.Distribution will be continued but not from Room 12, Industries. Should you desire one of these passes, communicate with one of the officers of your school or conic to the Student Council room on the first floor of the Industries Building, in the  same offset as the Y.
quile a number of the students do show the proper spirit as indicated by the progress made by the night students during the last five years, but remember we would be still further ahead if the entire night student body, would show the same spirit.
We may come to Carnegie and learn the fundamental as well as the advanced methods of painting, illustrating, or whatever subject we may consider, but they wont do us a particle of good unless wc learn to make personal contacts. The opportunity to do this i.s constantly at our disposal and by taking advaptagc of them- we not only enhance our own. value, but show real school spirit" as veil. C. C.
STUDENTS WANTED
TO SELL PUPPET
About 15 men arc wanted to sell the Ptippet- on the Campus at night. The work will not interfere with your studies as most of the students arrive between 7 and 7:30 p. m., which will be about all of the time it will be ncccssary to sell. Since Puppet is a monthly issue, three evenings should be sufficient to sell our quota. .
Suitable awards will be made to those who work. Those interested, send in your name to the Puppet office, Room 12, Industries, marked Night."
HONORARY CREDIT
OFFICERS TO BE CHOSEN
(Continued from Page .1) is promised all those -.vho attend.Tickets may be produced from any member of the committee. An opportunity to purchase them will be offered the men in the R. O. T. C. on next Thursday or before. The price of the tickets will be $2, which is quite a low amount for a dance of the caliber and length of the Military Ball. The committee wishes to impress on the student body the fact that this is a dance for the whole school and is not limited to members of the R. O. T. C.
The report of the dccoratipns committee at- a meeting held recently, indicates that the decorations for the affair will alone - amIdle Thoughts of an Idle Night StudentI
t,
Was awfully glad to hear that the Alumni party was such a succcss. You know it does a fellow good to go out like that once in awhile. Even if the wives were along, but between you and me there are lots of married men that kick about taking their wives along but if they would not. ,be there the party wouldnt seem right. After a couple has lived- together any 
length of time at all especially in the cases where there is harmony, it would certainly be hard to get along when one would be left to their own devices. Sounds like wc are starting-a matrimonial bu
reau, but were not.Incidentally, was talking to a Ilian who was one of the first graduates from the night school. He was at the Pitt game and- this is not the only game lie goes to in a year, and he mentioned something that many others probably noticed. It was; this. Remember, when Pitt had the ball jori_ our Seven-yard line .a-;d wer/pcna!izcd five yards, which of course pushed them back to the 12-yard line. Well, there was some cheering going on in the Carnegie stands. Now this is not so good and we know that it was probably not intended the way it sounded. In the excitement some one must have forgotten and others joined in, not icalizing what they were doing. This old grad is a very good sportsman and wc can well imagine how it sounded to him. Would it not be a good thing for the cheer leaders to be on the lookout for this kind of' a thing and htfch it dow'n before it got started. Win or lose, there is one tradition we want to hold above all others at Carnegie and that is our high standard of sportsmanship. Even before entering this institution this feature was attracted to my attention by -outsiders. It was not so very long ago -that we did not always have a winning team and it was an established fact that the team was cheered the same when it lost as'When it won, so lets keep this reputation above reproach.
One thing that does make a good impression on outsiders, and,
since football has gained such a prominent place in American athletics, the outsiders must' be considered, is the fact that our student body, in fact all of the people m the sections allotted to the Carnegie rooters, remain until the end of the gante, win or lose. Even the elements affect very few to the extent that they will leave the stands until the last man has been tackled.Has anyone heard anything .else in connection with the shelter house. While they are discussing it why not make it two. It is not clear- whether they intend erecting 
one-on each side of the street or not, but if the plans contemplate only one it will inconvenience those going toward town since it would be practically impossible for anyone to wait until a car comes into sight before trying to cross the streets with traffic as heavy as it is:Wonder what was decided in connection with the distribution of tickets for the Little Theater. Last year there was quite a fuss over this question, buc up to the pres
ent havent heard anything yet. They have some darned good shows over there from all reports and certainly would like to take one in if there would be any chances of getting a couple of tickets. Wonder who is in charge of these ducats.Well, Georgetown beat New York University so it looks like our team will be in for a warm session on Saturday. The players should be in good shape for this game after their long rest and wc certainly do hope they win in order to keep in the running for the Eastern championship. It is too bad tliat more of us wont be able to make the trip to see the game, but you can bet ydur 
life that wc will all be with them in spirit, so good luck boys and 
bring home the bacon.Wonder who holds the longdistance record this year. Last year one of the boys came all the way from Salem or Alliance, if my memory is correct, two or 
three nights a week. This is ambition personified. K.
ply repay those who attend for 
their* expense.
The Union is . a notably hard 
hall to decorate, but the plans for 
Friday night, are said to combinc beauty and originality. The decorations are in the hands of a capable committee, headed by Ed. Stitt, a senior Architect.Bill McNeill further promises programs which will be something to write home about. The programs' will be unusual and appropriate and will be an example of fine art in printing. Refreshments are being handled by Gordon Durr, who promises some surprises in the things to be served.The Military Ball Committee is composed of the  following men: 13ill McNeill, chairman; N. H. Evans, Gordon Durr, A. Mi Fisher, C. E. Kumpf, Lane Johnson, Bob 
Lockwood, J. Neely, H. B. Shaug- cncy and Ed. Stitt.
Wash-Jeff Night
at
The Washington Arms
Washington Blvd.
SAT., NOV. 10
FEATURING
Skidmores Pied 
Piper*
Cover Charge:Sat. 75c, Wed. & Fri. 50c
Special 
ARMISTICE DANCE 
Monday, November 12
PRINTING DEPARTMENT
(Continued from Page 1) 
Institute of Tecl]tiology, in his 
address before this convention, 
directed our attention to the potential value of scicntific rtsfcarch, and expressed a willingness _ to co-operate with otir organization- and place at our disposal the unusual equipment of his institution: therefore, be it Resolved: that we thank Dr.Baker, not only for the Invaluable-aid his great institution is rendering to printing education, but for so forcefully calling otir attention to the value of cxtfcndcd scientific research in. printing problems.In discussion it ws.- considered
worth while to consider in what 
way Tech could best establish such 
 testing station. This matter was 
assigned for further discussion at 
the next committc meeting which 
will be held in Rochester, Novem
ber 8, at the time of the Annual 
Meeting of the Printing Industries 
Division of the A. S. i\I. E.
The committee includes in its 
membership representatives of 
some of the larger organizations 
which carry on research pertaining 
to printing, such as Colonel Miller, 
executive secretary of the United 
Typothctae of America; R. F. Red, 
research director of the Lithographic Technical Foundation; and Edward O. Reed, technical director of the Government Printing office in Washington, as well as important engineers and executives of printing companies and printing 
press - manufacturers.
STUDENT COUNCIL
(Continued from Page 1") permitted to resign that position since he has been appointed chair
man of the Arts. Ball. His resignation was accepted and a new chairman will be appointed tonight.The Senate president' reported that re-elections have taken place to fill officcs left vacant by ineligibilities. As an outgrowth of this matter it \tas dccidcd - that a record of the officers of all ^student organizations . be kept on file in thc^ Student Council Office.The budget of the Freshman-All Carnegie dance was presented, for approval and referred to the executive committee for action. (It is to bc.rcmcmbcrcd that the names of all social committee members, the budget, and a list of all complimentary tickcts should be presented to the Social Budget Committee two weeks before the event is scheduled).
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable ariJ 
Standard Machines.
See our Big- Supply and get 
special student rates.
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantia 0342
FRESHMAN ALL-CARNEGIE DANCE
(Continued from Page 1) 
meeting this week to complete arrangements for the dance. An announcement will be made then concerning the admission price and the orchestra will be decided upon.The Student Council has interchanged the date of the dance with tlwt of the Soph Hop. As it now comes the evening that the special train leaves for Notre D^tnc sonic will not be able to attend. However. all those not going to South Bend are asked to keep this date
open and to attend the dance 
at all possible.
The Freshman Dance and tl 
Soph Hop arc held within one we 
of each other. A keen rivalry a 
ways exists between the #t\v classes, each attempting to hoi the better dance and to draw tl? larger crowd. Last year th Freshman Dancc outdid the Sop Hop in quality and attendance This year the plcbcs are again attempting to outdo the sopho- morcs in their daticc, and, with the aid of the students, they may be able to give a very excellent affair.
Making Bore Holes
Lesson No. 4 of
BLASTERS HANDBOOK
A BORE hole may be anything from a shallow 
hand-tlrill hole in a boulder to a deep, welldrill hole or a tunnel 100 or more feet long. And 
in all the great variety of bore holes between 
those extremes lies a startling complexity of 
methods, conditions, precautions and implements. 
What a soil punch, a coal auger, a hand drill, a 
chum drill, a hammer drill, well drills, tripod 
drills, and post drills look like and do are illus
trated and simply described in Chapter Four of 
the Blasters' Handbook. Tells, also, about tun
nels, springing bore holes, the care of drill bits, 
pumps and spoons for bore holes, and other prac
tical field pointers about making bore holes.
The Blasters' Handbook, prepared originally for 
the use of du Pont field service men, is an ex
tremely practical reference and study* work. 
Leading technical institutions are using the 
Blasters'-Handbook in their classrooms. Pocket 
size for your convenience.
You can get a copy absolutely FREE 
just by maiting this coupon. Get 
it off in the mail NOW.
E. .T. du Pont dc Nemours & Co., Inc.,
Explosives Department, Wilmington, Delaware
Without cost or obligation on my part, pteas send me n copy of The Blasters Handbook.
Dormitory Room No. 
City_________________
Doubled and redoubled 
All ready for the whistle 
-or the wind
You know the big thrill just before the whistle blows. Be prepared to enjoy all the big games this year in a smart-looking Alligator. Warmth and style for the brisk, windy days,and absolute protection, no matter how bard it rains. Every Alligator is correctly modeled in the 
most advanced 6tyle and all Alligator fabrics arc a revelation in softness, light weight and durability. Try one on. Get the feel of it and youll appreciate the big difference. Alligators are 
aold only at the best stores and retail 
from $7.50 to $25.00. See the new Alligator Aviation model at 810.00. 
The Alligator Company, St. Louis, Mo.
ALLIGATORTftABE-MARK REG. U. S. PAT. O
Book Store
For Sale at
Administration Bldg.
A leading bridge expert once,said, "The 
tees and kings play themselves; its the litde 
spots that make games.
Whats true in bridge seems equally true in 
th cigarette business. Aces to deuces, spades 
to clubsfrom the very first deal, Chesterfield , 
made every card good I
No risky finsses, no sharp double squeezes . 
 Chesterfield rose to world-wide popularity
e&peir
by straight ho nest selling with a straighthonest 
product  an outstanding success in cigarette 
history.
So Chesterfield can bid high. Tobacco qual
ity, perfect blending, purity, mildness, natural 
sweetness  with a hand like that, Chesterfield 
can redouble your smoking pleasure...and to
day, next month, next year, keep right on ful
filling the contract.
RIDAYDNOVD.9
MILD enough for anybody.. and yet.. THEY SATISFY
LIGGETT & MYMS TOBACCO CO.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. NOVEMBER 6. 1928.
AIR POCKETS
Several new measures were taken 
p at' the meeting of the Aviation 
1 ub last Tuesday night. A pubcijy committee was appointed to 
cep the Carnegie Campus aware 
/ aeronautical activities. Bulletins 
nnouncing the meetings will be 
lac^d on the boards on the day 
icfore each meeting. Club meinje'rs will be reminded of each iccting bv postal cards. * * * * *
The Aviation Club will have as : its guest at the next meeting, Clif- 1 ford Ball, aviator at Bettis Flying Field, who will endeavor to answer any questions on aviation and general flying. Me will also talk on the Hying conditions around Pitts
burgh from personal observations made in a plane.Half the quota of the Flying Club is now filled. Within two weeks the enrollment will be closed. All those applying for membership 
after the club membership is filled will be put on a waiting list. All interested members of the faculty and student body are therefore asked to attend the next meeting of the club. It will be held one week from today, Tuesday, November 13, in . Room 304 Industries Building. Notices of the hour will be made before the meeting.
ANNUAL SCABBARD ANDBLADE CALL MADE
(Continued from Page 1) ,made the call. With the new men the total enrollment of the fraternity is twenty-five.Gordon Durr is in chargc of the initiation but as yet no date has been set for the ceremony.
THE PARAMODE COMPANY
OF ST. LOUIS, MO.
Announces a New Fall Line of
COLLEGE SHIRTS
 S E E 
HOWARD HARPSTER, 624 Clyde St.
Carnegie Representative by Special Appointment
THE ELECTION
Of the depositary for your valuable possessions 
is a matter of careful consideration.
Your Oakland Bank offers a service that meets 
your every requirement.
Checking-Savings-Christmas Savings Accounts, 
Loans, Investments, Safe Deposit, Travel, Real Estate and Foreign Departments, all of which 
are under experienced and efficient supervision.
Our officers are always ready to confer with 
you regarding your financial problems.
Come in and get acquainted.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Avenue Crosses Forbes Street
Lockwood Cadet, Major of AYM9DLY 9VNDTY6N Volume Two of Prof. Trinks 
Carnegie Battalion, ROTC ^ Book Nowon Sale in Germany
Within the past week the ROTC Department has made the announcement of Cadet Major for the Carnegie Battalion. When Robert R. Lockwood of the Electrical Engineering Department was announced as major, it was the firsttime in four years that a memberof the Signal Corps had been thus honored.Besides being chosen as the outstanding student in the present ROTC, he has received numerous other recognitions of both a scholastic and activity nature. Lockwood, a senior in the Engineering School, has held scholarships for the past three years, and has beenone of the highest ranking students in his department. He is a member of the Delta Mu social fraternity, and. of Scabbard and Blade, National Honorary Military Fraternity. At the summer training camp last summer, located at Ft/'Munmouth, N. J., he was initiated into Pi Tau Pi Sigma, an honorary for students in the Signal Corps,' which is now petitioning the Student Council for recognition on the Carnegie Campus. He is also a member of the Eta Kappa Nu fraternity, a national electrical 
honorary.Further announcements of the appointments of commissions in the ROTC are expected to be made some time this week, probably at the Military Ball.
Articles By Dr. Neelley
In Mathematics Journal
There appeared -in the July issue of the. American Journal of Mathematics an article written by Dr. J. H. Neelley of the Department of Mathematics. His article was entitled, "The Invariants of the Rational Plane Tacnodal and Osca- nodal Quartic Cruves considered as Sections of Special Surfaces. An- otlur article written by Dr. Neelley will appear in the American, Journal of Machematics within the next few days. Dr. Neelley has previously written a book entitled, "Analytical Geometry.!
W.
A Business Advantage
The young man or woman who can claim a banking connection with a well-established financial concern, will find it a very definite advantage in his business life. There is no better time to make such a connection than now.
but a mosquito blocked the way
THE Panama Canal diggers had 
engineering hrains and money 
aplenty. But they were blocked by the 
malaria and ycllow-feverbearirtgmosquitocs, which killed men by thousands.
Then Gorgas stamped out the mos
quito. The fever was conquered. The 
Canal was compl ted.
The importance of little things is rec
ognized in the telephone industry too.
Effective service to the public is possible 
only when every step from purchase of 
raw material to the operator VNumber, 
please has been eared for.
This is work for men who can sense 
the relations between seemingly unre
lated factors, men with the vision to see 
a possible mountain-barrier 111 a mole
hill and with the resourcefulness 
to surmount it.
PAUL BRAUTIGAM
Paul Brautigam Chosen 
For Olee Club Director
Paul ,F. Brautigam, of Pittsburgh, has been selected as the student director of the Mens Glee Club of Carnegie. He will assist HarVey B. Gaul, a well known music critic and director of the Glee Club.Paul Brautigam is a junior in music, specializing in voice. He has been prominent in music and in the Glee Club for several years. He is also a member of Delta Epsilon, a social fraternity.The Mens Glee Club made their first public appearance of the year, last Sunday evening, at the sixth annual student reception by the Sixth Presbyterian Church. They were accompanied by the Kiltie Band. The Mens Glee Club also will give several formal concerts throughout the year, and they compete annually in the Intercollegiate Glee Club Contest.
Sun-Tele Ad Prize Won 
By Carnegie Student
Maitland Smith, a Senior in Industries, was' the winner of a weekly prize of $100 awarded for the best advertisement written about any one , of thirty-nine . specified concerns who arc interested in the Zein Plan for better advertising.Air. Smith visited the salesroom of the Graham-Paige Motor Car Company, where he observed the cars important features. One evening he jotted down what he considered the essential points in salesmanship. Fie entered the results of his effort, and his advertisement was selected from among hundreds as being the most concise arid inclusive.The' scheme was altogether new to Mr. Smith. He has been entering the contest each, week and has liqpe of winning, the . grand prize 
of $1,000 which will be awarded at the end of the entire contest.
Deans to EntertainForeign Students
On . Friday, November 9, Dean Green and Dean Tarbcll will give a dinner to the sixty foreign students of the Pennsylvania College for Women, University of Pittsburgh, and Caunegic Institute cf Technology.- This gathering, which will constitute the second meeting of the Cosmopolitan Club of Pittsburgh for the 1928-1929 year, will be held in Carnegie Inn at 6:30 oclock. Students who arc to. attend this reception represent the following countries: Canada, Palestine, India, Alaska, Canal Zone, Germany, France, Switzerland," Belgium, China, North India, Russia, Porto Rico, British West Africa, Roumania, the Philippines, Honolulu, Sweden, .England and Grcecc. Following the dinner there will be entertainment and bridge. _ The purpose of this gathering is to make the foreign students feel at home in this land and to acquaint them with American customs.
"Industrial Furnaccs is the Title of Book Written by Professor in M. E. Department
Word has been received by Proffessor W. Trinks of the Mechani
cal Engineering Department that 
the second volume of his book, 
Industrial Furnaces, which he 
translated into the German, is now 
on sale in Germany.
Professor Trinks received a 
scholarship to Charlottenburg Uni
versity and graduated from there with three medals for profici&icy in his studies. He will turn all the income from Industrial Furnaces, his book, to Ins Alma Mater.Industrial Furnaces is a revision and expansion of about one- half of the series of thirty articles which appeared in 1919, 1920 and 1921 in the ' "Blast Furnace and Heel Plant" and in The American Drop Forger, under the title,Furnaces." The articles were products of spare moments at times sketchy, incomplete, and inaccurate but they were so well received that they were organized and put into book form to fulfill the demands for such material.The subject of industrial heating is so broad that two volumes were written on it. The first volumedeals with the fundamental princi* pies and facts which underlie allindustrial heating operations .and furnace design, and with all those applications which are independent of the nature of the fuel or energy supply. The second volume, just published, contains a thorough discussion of the devices used in heat generation by combustion and by electrical means; it discusses automatic control of ~ furnace atmosphere and of temperature; and it deals with labor-saving devices and with the selection of furnaces to 
suit plant conditions.The book contains a number of graphs -which show the relationbetween the variables and shorten 
the furnace calculations.In the preface Industrial Furnaces is accredited to be the first book of its type in any language. Professor Trinks made quite a contribution to his field of workwhen he took the expense and time to write this book in firstthe English and then the German language. He was assisted in preparation by Mr. J. D. Roller,.Mr. M. H. Mawhinney and Mr. 
Fred Crabtree of Carnegie.
Engineer Must Be
Good Business Man| 
-----------Mr. E. C. Stone, Manager of the 
System Development Department 
of the Duquesne Light Company, 
presented a paper The Engineering 
Graduate of Public Utilities on 
July 23, 1928 which is of special 
interest to Carnegie- students be
cause of the interest shown in 
them by the author.
Mr. Stone believes that if the 
engineer is to succeed in the public 
utility industry under present day 
conditions, he must make for himself a scientific business man. The scientific knowledge he is expected to know. His functions as a business executive arc not so widely familiar.
Many economic problems are present. Economic balance between fuel efficiency and first cost of a steam power plant, efficient operation of plants, determination of costs of service, are problems which the engineer must face in modern competitive sj'stems. Engineers also must know how to handle nicn and how to get along with other persons in various departments.Aside from technical education, the engineer must have a fair knowledge of English composition, in order to write reports competently, and some training -jn. public speaking is desirable. Salesmanship is another important factor 
in success with commercial engineering firms, to enable the engineer to develop his own ideas and to receive aid in working out a project.Mr. Stone says, It is suggested that the successful public utility engineer of today must be a scientific business man; that not only 
must he be able to work out the physical problems satisfactorily, but also he must understand the econ
omics of his business, and must be able to deal successfully with the J many other men both inside 'and outside of his own organization, with' whom he must .deal if his plans are to materialize.
Series of Concerts
By Girls' Glee Club
The Girls Glee Club is planning a scries of concerts, the fir^t of which will be given in chapel on November 13. At the request of the Veterans Hospital in Aspin- wall another will-. be given January 17. The next day the club will give a concert for the Oakland Womens Club. In addition to these engagements the club will give concerts at the following places: The City Womens ..Club,the Childrens Hospital, the. Marine Hospital, the Magee Hospital, and the Knoxville Christian Church. Several numbers will be given over WCAE during Carnegie Iiour, as part of the. regular program. The radio program will be arranged by Director Jewett of Industries.The club gave a tea on October 31 in the newfl^i-ccreation hall in Margaret Morrison. _ The program given included a violin duet .entitled Last Spring, by Grieg. This duct was played by Bonita N. Gibbs and Barbara E. Call  with Thelma Smcltzer at the piano. Mary' Farbaugh gave a reading; and Catherine Dolan gave a piano solo. The social committee in chargc of the tea included Mary Fargaugh, Ethel Long, Michclina Rctardus and Helen Bright.Recent changes in .the officers include the resignation of Lois Shultz as assistant librarian. Helen Dillman has been appointed in her place.-----------------------------------------------------
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St,, Near Craig
Lets Go ToTECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETS
Y.M.C.A.andY. W. C.A. 
Follow-Up Drive To 
Begin November
Graphica Club Banquet at 
Carnegie Inn Last Tuesday
A follow-up drive will be held j 
during the week of November 7 
in order to renew enthusiasm in 
the Y. W. G. A. drive which closcs 
December 1. This second drive 
will be conducted under the direction of Ann McKcc. .So far the results of the Y. -W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A. membership campaign have been just fairly successful. It has been three weeks since the initial drive began and the solicitors commenced their work with interest and enthusiasm. The number of subscriptions turned in by the solicitors during the first week far exceeded the number received in the two succeeding weeks. This was not due to the fact that the majority of students subscribed when first approached.BecaUse the Y has so much to offer any college student subscriptions are not difficult to get if the students are correctly approached and tactfully told just what part the Y plays in the college life at Carnegie. It is onljr with the co-operation of the solicitors .that the drive will succeed in attaining the goal which has been set. Come on, solicitors, work!
The bookbinding class in the Department of Printing at Carnegie has been notified that their exhibit at the national convention of the Employing Bookbinders of America, held recently in Boston, has been awarded first prize in the Interstate' Collegiate division. The class is instructed by R. C. David. The exhibit was honored by the title, "The iar^cst and most comprehensive exhibit from the United States/
Dayid Gustafson, head of the Department of Printing, spoke at the convention, and has been accorded an honorary membership in the organization as a token of appreciation for his speech.
The banquet of the Graphica 
Club, an honorary organization hi 
the Department of Printing, was 
held last Tuesday in the Faculty 
Room of the Carnegie Inn 
and proved to be a fair success.
The first speaker of the- evening 
was Professor Gustafson' who gave 
an address of welcome to the new 
members of the Printing Depart
ment. Professor Gustafson who 
is the head of the Printing De
partment then told of the'line work 
that is being . clone , at Carnegie 
Tech.'
The principal speaker.of the eve
ning, Director .JeWett of the Col
lege of Industries, spoke oh Re
search Problems in Printing and1 
added more interest to his. talk by 
telling some incidences of his trip 
to Canada this past summer. Di
rector. Jewett, is on the Committee 
for Printing Research. At present the coriimitl'cV is working.on the standardization of printing equipment.As is the custom of the Graphica, Mr. R. Lane, a new instructor in the Printing Department, was presented with a certificate of membership to . the .club as an honorary member. The presiding officer at the banquet was Mr. Normandcau, president of the Graphica.The last speaker oh the program was Mr. Garnett, Associate Professor in.. the Department of Fine Printing and head of the Laboratory Press. _ Mr. Garnett gave some interesting views on the two scales 'pi business men, those-who work for. profit and those who work for bu'sihcss. Mr. Garnett is. also a vice president of the 
American Institute of Graphic Arts.
O
NE Of the host helps lo the student 
is a dependable fountain pen. Th< 
Singer. Pen & Gift Shop in Jcnkin: 
Arcade will sell you a pen with "ex
change privileges so you can be sure that 
your hand is "titled. They also repair 
old pens of all makes. Mention this ar
ticle for special consideration.
QUALITYSTUDENT PRICES
Daschbachs Restaurant and Dining Hall
3808 FORBES STREET
Special Notice
Lets Renew Old Friendship
We arc Ready at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories from us. 
LATEST STYLES ALL
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit
6002-3-4 JENKINS ABCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night PhoneLafayette 4791-R
BELL SYSTEM
t/l nation-wide system of 18,500,000 interconnecting *efephuti;!
B!BDUX,o a good busi
ness proposition! Invest 
in a Remington Portable 
and reap dividends in the 
form of bigger and better 
rest at night.
Much faster than writing 
by hand, this little Rem
ington enables you to fin
ish your long reports or 
thesesnot fall asleep try
ing to finish them. Not 
only that, but think how
less burning' 
of the midnight oil p
much neater and more 
business-like they look when typewritten! 
Examine the Remington 
Portable. It is the smallest, 
lightest, most compact and 
most dependable portable 
with standard keyboard. 
(Carrying case only 4 
inches high. Weighs 814 pounds, net.)
Monthly payments.
The Recognized header  in Sale* 
and Popularity.
Remington 
Portable
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Administration Bldg.
that Fill
)kies with Commerce
A majority of the beacon 
lights used in airport and 
airway illumination have 
been designed and manu
factured by the General 
Electric Company, whose 
specialists have the benefi t 
of a generation's experi
ence in the solution of 
lighting problems.
THE air map of America is now in the makingon the ground.
Ten years ago, there were 218 miles of air mail routes with two station stops; to-day, a network of sky roads bridges the country from the Atlantic to the Pacific and from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico.
Can you imagine this growth without electricitywithout illuminated airportswithout trunk lines studded with 
electric beacons?
Men of vision are building for increasing traffic of the air. Soon, the skies will be filled with commerce.
Just as electricity is helping to conquer the air, the land, and the sea to-day, so to-morrow it will lead to greater accomplishments in aviation and in every human activity.
Remington Rand Business Service, Inc., 
ssemer Bldg., 102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh,GENERAL ELECTRICFITE NOR M FA LOLFPNGR S O L C a R F p 36i

---------------------------------------------------

DENN
and SHADT 
^Pittsburgh
The Blacks won, 22-33. For the winners, the men to place were Lord, first; Meenan, third; Koks, fifth; Carr, sixth; and Krebs, seventh. The Whites scored with Price, sccond; Rcichard, fourth; Digcs, eighth; Sander, ninth; and Bryant, tenth. These trials were, the first to be held over the varsity six-mile course, as
the plebes had been running three- mile races until last week. The time results gave Coach Halferty quite a bit of satisfaction as he will have to 'draw on these men for next year's varsity.The frosh will be entered in the A11 c g h e n y Mountain Association (Continued on Page 6)
VARSITY HALFWOMENS ATHLETICS
RIFLE SEASON OPENS
Ths week will witness the official opening of the Womens Rifle season. The first of the season will be devoted to the instruction of the freshmen . and 
those who have never handled a wflc before. These classes .will be held on Wednesday and Friday afternoon. Lieutenant, Cothcran and 
Lieutenant Arrowsinith of'the Military Department will be the in
structors of the class.Some additional provision will
have to be made for the exceptionally large number of recruits. So far, the number of students that have signified their desire to participate in the sport, has grown to 70. This docs not include those who were out for Rifle last year. Notices will be posted, listing the' girls and the day on which they arc to practice.Practically all of the 1927-2S Women's Rifle team will be out for this years team. These girls 
(Continued on Page 6)
THOMAS LIPPERTPaint  Hardware  Electric Supplies
Oakland Hardware Co.
Mayflower 0923 Iroquois Block
THE PLEBES POLISHED off their season in a 
noble fashion by downing the Nittany Cubs 
33-6. Playing as never before they were unusu
ally brilliant in their aerial attack. The McCurdy-Ewing combination was real varsity stuff 
anc* Practical]y the game.
Not only did EWING shine in pulling down 
Pas5es> but his end broken field runs showed 
w '  \ | his real varsity caliber. McCurdys accurate
passes and heady team generalship gives us
^L some indication of a suitable man to fill Harpsters shoes.. Kozicki, at guard, was the third
and only other outstanding first year performer.
It was somewhat of a surprise, very pleasant of course, to
see the Penn State yearlings fall, and was the best of endings 
for a season. Our only comment is that we wish they could 
have hit such a stride earlier in the seasonif they could have, 
Pitt, W. and J., W. Va., would have gone down, one, two three.  v- * * -ff .-i if.
THINGS ARE SETTLIN< DOWN in the east with only
six in the running for eastern honors. As it stands now. George
town., Carnegie Tech, Army, Boston Coilcge, and Villanova, are 
leading and in. three weeks we want to see Army and Carnegie 
squabbling for the fictitious title.
Although N. Y. U. fell before Georgetown we . still think 
N. Y. U. is more to be feared. The touchdown was made on a 
recovered fumble and the Violet was four times within scoring 
distance, only to have the pigskin muffed.
THIS SATURDAY IS; THE CRUCIAL TEST. EITHER 
THE WASHINGTON AGGREGATION OR THE TARTANS 
.DROP OUT OF THE RUNNING.. IT WILL BE A BAT
TLE FIT FOR ANY GRID MACHINE. IF IT IS A WIN 
WITH NO ONE INJURED BADLY, WE DO NOT FEAR 
THE REMAINDER OF THE SEASON. WE ARE CONFIDENT THAT THE ELEVEN WlLt RETURN FROM AL
BANY WITH A GEORGETOWN SCALP.
Very few squads face a program such as the Skibos have' 
be/pre them. Facing three nationally powerful clubs at weekly, 
intervals with-long trips thrown in, they will be fighting: tre
mendous odds. If they go through the three without some of: 
'the first string injured and on the bench it will be something to* 
.burn many .joss, sticks over.****** *
YE EDITOR pulled off a couple of inexcusable blunders in 
this column last week.
. IT WAS THAYER FLANNAGAN who gave such a bril
liant football exhibition and not his twin brother Latham. 
Latham, was on the bench the entire game with an injured 
shoulder. However it was all in the family.
. When Harpster heaved the pass, which was instrumental in 
the touchdown, Shaughnessy was the man who jerked it down 
and not Roseimvcigv Shaughncssey played his best game to 
date which was one of the features of the afternoons struggle. 
In .taking the credit away from Rosenzweig we must not forget, 
bc.^eveF, the* number of passes-he did complete-and-his 'praise,'worthy, actions on the end.
NO EXCUSES ARE OFFERED for these boners; the only 
consolation is that all the papers made like mistakes.)|i :|< * * * -4< >1:
THE PITTSBURGH PAPERS tell us that Carnegie Tech 
is spreading out an army of SPIES to look over the three op
ponents in the offing.
Lets not. be so blunt and call them scouts, not spies. 
And why pick on Carnegie? Every school,1 to my knowledge, 
unless -they make a mutual agreement otherwise, scout each 
other in order to plan their attack and defense. In fact, it is 
the usual practice for schools to take care, of \nemy scouts and 
fix th'cm up with press box seats.v, * # , *  * * * *
ftl-IE VARSITY HARRIERS continue tlieir march to an 
all-victory season. The Westminster squad struggled over six 
miles of Schcnlcy mountains to a 21-34 defeat.
WORLEY continued to lead his teammates by chalking 
up 30:07 time, his best for the season, and also the best among 
the Carnegie men this season.
Saturday a .week, the squad runs Grove City Here. All in
dications point towards a win.
Football is tough, but cross-country is gruelling and break
ing,made doubly difficult by the lack of spectators and conse
quent lack of moral support. Many a . time we have seen the 
boys struggle in frothing at the mouth and dead-on their feet. 
They have our admiration.
' Jfc 5)C S|c - >H ^ 5j<
THE SWIMMING TEAMS are preparing , to open their 
season. PLEBES, here is another opening for managers and 
would be swimmers. Report any afternoon at the pool.
^iuiiiiai!!niir,iuiiiiHi<innflii!iRnnnnii!ni:!5iiGiiHnnfcino!H!i(ni{iint!!nii!iin!Hinnnii
Varsity Meets Georgetown U. 
This Saturday at Albany
Varsity Runners Vanquish 
Westminster on Sat., 21-34Chinchilla Coats
Just Made 
for the Campus!
As the football season passes the 
half-way mark, the' followers of 
Carnegies fortunes gain additional 
insight into the capabilities of the 1928 team. All the easy gameshave been disposed of for more than three, weeks and the last and toughest half of the schedule is well under way.*Westminster was the first victim of the slashing onslaught of Steffens proteges. The next opponent, Ashland, was disposed of in just such a whirlwind manner 
as that of the preceding game, 10 touchdowns against none being the margin of victory. Then came Thiel, the first tea'm to give the Tartans more than a stiff workout. The Mercer county institution showed real power in the opening stages of the game and succeeded 
(Continued on Page 6)
Carnegie's all-conquering cross- j country runners added tlieir third j victory of the season to their slate Saturday, when they led the Westminster harriers around the paths of Schenley Park for a half hour and 
added up a 21-34 score against the New Wilmington team at the finish. Worley, sophomore runner who led the Tech trotters to victory over Pitt, October 27, was first in line again Saturday with a time of 30:07 for the six mile jaunt. The meet was originally scheduled to be run in New Wilmington, but the scene was changcd to Schenley Park because Westminster football squad was entering, the Smoky City Saturday to clash, with Duquesne.The Plaid annexed four of the first five places with the help of Captain Campbell, in sccond place, i Salkin, third, and Anderson, fifth. E. Myers was the best bet for Coach Graham's team as he came in fourth with a time of -30:41. Westminster also took four out of five places, but the places were the wrong five for scoring purposes. Sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth places went to Smalley. Wallace, Captain King, and Ellis from i.pstate, while Ged- con completed the scoring for Tech by taking tenth position.The first five men to finish made it a sort of get-together race as they took the lead early and stayed (Continued on Page 6)
THAYER FLANNAGAN, HALFBACK
THE FROSH had a little rest. LORD, the find of the 
Pitt meet, lived up to expectations by leading the field in the 
time trials, over the six-mile course, clocking up a 32:50 time 
which is just &:43 tinder the best varsity time. He looks like 
real varsity material.
NOVEMBER 16th the yearlings close their unblemished 
season with Shadyside Academy as opposition. It looks as if 
they will equal the varsity record of no defeats.
This Saturday the collegiate Allegheny Mountain Associa
tion run will be held over the Carnegie course to decide the 
A. A. U. championship for western Pennsylvania. The Plebes 
will run while it is still undecided whether the varsitywill be 
entered. This will be a prime chance for some of the boys to 
pick up some medals and such trifles.* * * -fi * * *
WONDER OF WONDERSa tennis tournament for the 
first time in Carnegie court history has gone through to com
pletion. The man who downed all comers for the champion
ship was BERGHANE, a plebe, and one of the classiest players 
seen on the local courts. Hardie, his runner-up, forced him 
to a five set match and in the end was downed by 8-6 and 7-5 
setsvery narrow margins indeed. Berghane is to be con-1 
gratulateto cm winning the honor; he faced stiff opposition, the 
best of the school, and it was a hard fight to the end.
One of those swagger man
nish modes that girls have 
found enormously flattering 
to themselves, and forthwith 
appropriated!
Br eh m Smith Lasicli
Ewing _____--------L.IArcher _________R.IPounccy--------------F.Score by quartersTech _______7State ______  0. Touchdown$: Tech'f Ewing 4, Matia;  StateLasicli.Points after touchdowns: Tech Pouncey (drop-kick);, McCurdy to Ewing (forward pass); McCurdy 
to Baushke (forward pass).Substitutions r Carnegie - Brown for Ewing, Evving for Brown, Perch for Boucek, Baushke for Archer, Widmer for Kozicki, O'Flynn for DuCanis, Irwin for Stauffer, Shekels for Fletcher, Hower for Matia. Penn Frosh Thomas for Snyder, . Walker for Tomb, Wall for DeCindis, BrClim for. Smith, Stempeck for Hamilton, Bauman for Engle, Stoops for Timer.OfficialsReferee, Fricscll. Umpire, Rcbele. Linesman, McGli.n- ccy.
Made just like a man s big, 
double-breasted overcoat, 
with notched collar, deep 
pockets and all. Lined through 
the shoulder's with silk, or 
throughout with plaid wool. 
In several colors  probably 
smartest in navy blue.Frosh Harriers Will Enter 
A.M. A. Meet on Sat. Nov. 10
Lord, plebe "find" who surprised everybody by placing fourth in the plebe \hicct with Pitts cross-country freshman team on October 27, furnished the sensation in the frosh time-trials Fridaj', when , he led the field over the' six-mile course- and was clocked at 32:50. Lord was not officially entered in the Pitt meet, but was merely running to show what lie could do, since he had come out for the team only a week before the Pitt meet.. Friday lie led Price by five scconds at the finish line and looked fine.
To add the interest of competition to the time-trials, Coach Halfcrty divided, the plebe squad into two teams, the Blacks and the Whites,
Sizes 13 to 17 and 14 to 20. 
(Or, if youre small enough 
to be fitted in the childrens 
department, you may get the 
same coat for $16.75.)that the Pehn forwards would open.This . closed the season for the I Plebes. They woti two of the six scheduled games, giving them a. 333 ptr cent. The lineup follows:Plebes33 Penn S. F.6Armen trout -------L.E_____ TurnerFletcher ------------L.T___ HamiltonBouchck------------L.G______ GillardDucanis-----:-------C________ EngleKozicki R.G____: DeCindisStauffer --------iR.T____ McMillanMatia ----------------R.E---------- TombMcCurdy ------------Q----------- Snyder
FRESHMAN TEAMCLOSES SEASON
(Continued from Page 1) 
successful. On the first play' following kickoff, Ewing darted around end and ran 60 yards for his fourth touchdown of (he game. In the try for point the drop-kick .went wide. The- last touchdown was made on a pass from McCurdy to Matia. Baushke snagged a pass for an additional point.Alee DuCanis played a brilliant game at center, both on defense and on the offense; he did not make a bad pass from center, and this is saying a lot when the ball is at wet as it was on^ Saturday. 
Kozicki at guUrd and Fletcher at tackle did their share of the defensive play; both (plugging holes
TECH BAKERY
AND
CONFECTIONERY
323 SO. CRAIG STREET 
Wholesale and Retail 
Fruit and Groceries
Joseph Horne Co
And So His Face Was Utterly Ruined
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
inMc hnga Kd JO ANNC 
Cold Tony^ while Mf
jMO NDAYY TEN C! 
UCIVOOO .1D C 2
Cough im a cap.- 1 (
Load r
OEEX U'lVR GSF 
COUGH, -SEEXA D'lV 
A CUT You FACE !!
Please, t shava 
You NO mo' ?! .>
'HCULR ,'PHU!
iLSSouuurob ymst 
hemahbul adfT badebt 
mOR UmORT Imtu yms
7N6P P6M3 oU------
OR SUICIDE .y
Student Take Notice
Specilli Rntcs For You At
TECH TAILORS
Cleaning, Pressing and Tailoring 
COME IN AND SEE STEIN"
Mayflower 7795 325 S. Craig St.
WE CALL AND DELIVER
ANNOUNCING
The Opening Of
THE TECH 
BEAUTY SHOP
DANCING 
At JACQUES SCHOOL
In Conjunction WithCRAIG & FORBES ST.
Beginners Monday and Friday Eve
ning's. Advanced, Thursday and Satur
day Evenings. Private lessons by ap
pointment. * ~ -----A good shoe to.ask for 
by nameMNTROSSMayflower 7891
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Student Rates 
$3.00
MBO NIHaVo'm
MENS TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
606 State Thenter Bids:.
Uur service 
First in Favor
Two great qualities place 
our catering entertain
ment service first in favor. 
We are modernly and 
adequately equipped for 
every type of affair, and 
we are unfailingly reliable 
in performance.
ftenus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us fox, suggestions.
Weddings a Specialty
No longer need tlie wellshod man pay the price of 
out-of-date production 
methods.
Inefficiency is outmoded.
Modern methods enable 
John Wards to lead in qual
ity, in style, yet sell for 
doll a: ' tss!
Buy your next pair hero 
nf seven and nine dollars!
OPERATING pEGOHSeAtjD
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PUTES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHV 
ARTISTS ana 
'ILLUSTRATORS7he Smoother and Better Cigarette 
not a cough in a carload
(^okivVM
ivveivsoKoes
On display at
J. R. Scheib & Bros.
4515 Center Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.
iNCcmroujvriD - Rio. u.*.rAr. orr.
Stores In Now York r 
Brooklyn : Newark and Philadclphil
M/ POST-SUN Buildinq 
^ PITTSBURGH 
Phones:GRanM65^ or 1655 *O P. Lorillird Co.. Elt. 1760
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1928._______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________*___________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN 5
TARTANSLets Show Al a Real Winner at AlbanySaturday

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6. 1928.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2*00 
Published onco every week during the
i year by undcrfcraduntcs of Cnrneirie 
Institute of Technology. Entered In the 
Plttjiburj'h Pont Office na nocond-clnss matter.
THE STAFF
Editor-m-ChicfStewart C. RalstonPlaid Editor___Edw. E. McDonaldBusiness ManagerJames H. Scibdrt
Managing Editor____William McNeillNews Editor---------------Ruth BramsonWomens Editor-._____Dorothy RoyAthletic Editor. Thomas W. LippertAlumni Editor.------Charles R. Nelson
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Helen Reed Eugene JarcmaHelen Booth Hyman J. LevinsonHelen Whifchill Kathryn ODonnell
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Nathan Miller Joe B. -attersonSara E. Wonders Alex M. FisherElizabeth Schlesinger
.TUNIOR EDITORS 
Rosemary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland Jacob Carpe Henry L. Bunker, Jr.Catherine Boyd 
REPORTERS 
J. J. Boyle H. N. Meixner
PLAY REVIEW
THE MEN'S GRILL ANY NOON!
D. K. Tomer L. M. Baugh J. H. McAtecr C. r. Ackenheil A. F. PhillipsE. J. Dattisman G. H. Mcrrin
M. Eckels N. Kline G. M. Wilson L, 1. Shusset W. L. Myers 
D. H. Barr W. W Hay W. J. EasonI. Levin 
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS 
Helen Zeleznjak Pearl Gqjdberg 
Ludmilla Allen . Mary Gordan
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Advertising Mgr-----Robert H. WehrleAssistants__________David H. GentcrWillis M. Crosby John Wright 
Michael Malinich 
Carl Blass__S. A. ButtonariA. Frank V. P. Jones H. M. Rosenberg 
E. G. Miller D. W. Seville
Circulation Mgrs._. 
Circulation Assts.
OfficeRoom 12, Industries Building. Of
fice HoursMonday to Thursdays, 12:30, 
1:20, Paper made up Friday, 12:30-G00.
To insure publication on the succccdins 
Tuesdny, news items must bo in the student 
post olTico or l'artnn Office before 4:30 
Thursday.
After office hours, call
Editor.....................................Onkmont B67-W
..........................................Mnyflower 8321
Plaid Editor......................................Atlantic 1300...Schenley 23S9 
...Schenley 9211 
...Schenley 9082Business Manager........*
Advertising Manager-..
CAMPUS WEEK FINANCES
The Campus Week Jinx is here 
again and seems determined thi time to sink his dart in a vital spot. His yearly re-appearance is becoming a habit, and if there is a > good reason to put him out of the .way once and for all it ought to be used to exterminate him.In the operating statement of flic student, council can be found probably the most conclusive evidence that campus week is a sound and worthy enterprise. Of all the organizations and functions financed or sponsored bv student council Campus Week is conspicuously the most profitable. The financial statement of the eighth Campus Wecl< shows a surplus of $3,181,40. The seventh Campus Week came out on top with $1,481.24, but the ninth Campus Week had neat figures on the - other side of its ledger, due to the restrictions made last year on 
its functions.In consideration of the fact that the council's operating statement almosj: invariably reveals a loss on the years functions, the abolishment of Campus Week, besides depriving the student body of a cherished tradition, would be an unfair move to those who arc trying to make the councils ends 
meet.There is a considerable decrease in the operating loss of student council since last year. In fact, an equal decrease this year would leave the council with a surplus. 'Because the council has so many necessary expenses, it is to its credit that so many successful profitable functions have been sponsored as to almost satisfy their 
finance sheets.An idea of the councils ncces- sary expenses may be had by observing the appropriations to organizations which amounted to $8,- 315.00 during the school year of 1927-2S. Activities Ivcj'S for the same year cost $469.34.W. R.
SILENCE Never is there a banquet or dinner in The Commons without an accompanying racket of shifting chairs just prior to the talks which customarily follow such a <meal. Unfortunately, however, the noise does not cease then, and whenever a listener stirs there is the sound of scraping chair legs. This must certainly be disconcerting to a speaker, for it is quite annoying to those nearby who are intent on hearing what is being said. On an uncarpeted floor, there seems to be but one remedy for such a situation, and many persons have won-| dered why rubber tips have not already been placed on the legs of the chairs in the old beanery. Of course, some expense would pecessarily be involved, but it is not' likely that it would even approach the expenditures made for other minor changes about the campus that have been merely incidental. The installation of such chair silencers would certainly win the good will of visiting speakers, and those who arc forced to , listen to the continual scraping of ( chair legs during a talk would be 1 doubly grateful. Lets have some \ silence in The Commons.
Over cigars in the library of the Players Club in New York, one evening four years ago, Don Mar ciuis, alter a good dinner, perhaps of tripe, was concluding an informal interview with Walter little. Producers want me to continue in the vein of 'The Old Soak,' which had success. 'Hedda Gabler and 'The Master Builders' arc more 
my idea of what a play should be. 1 should like to do something really serious, aside from humor. 1 have been working on a play that 1 call 'The Dark Hours, in Which Christ is the central figure. It has to do With the agonizing night before the crucifixion. 1 do not attempt to show Christ on t.ic 
stage, As Shaw has said, It an attempt is made to represent jesui in the theater, the result is only handsome actor.' His voice > heard ill my play, however. 1 hav had several producers look at it, and they all express interest, but so far arc not willing to chance it It is to be published soon, so 
it will find the light of day to that extent, at any rate."Nothing delayed the publication A reviewer's copy reached btuait Sherman's office the second week in December, 1924. The professor 
book reviewer did not know i\lai- quis personally, but he happened lo read the play and liked it. fcor two months other more important books demanded his attention. 1 hen on February 8, lie devoted his lead cr in the Herald Tribunes Books 
to a review of "The Dark Hours wlfh an accojnt of Marquis and his other works. Among other things, lie said these: "Don Mar nuis has just proved by the sever, est of tests that he is a poet ot very nearly the rarest sort. He lias published a drama of poignant beauty and memorable reality on the betrayal, trial and crucifixion of Jesus. . . He has thoroughly dramatized the chief narrative oi 
the New Testament . ... yet without striking a single note which is not perfectly in harmony witll the tone and atmosphere of the Gospels . . . His feeling about the delicate ethical and artistic cities tions involved in handling this ma tcrial lie discusses with admirable lastc and insight. In ljiy judgment, his feeling has lead him absolutely 
right . . . 'The Dark Hours,' even silently read, is of a seizing and transporting, reality. Its tremendous dramatic stress is intensely fclt . I believe this to be a great tragedy, greatly conceived 
and written with austere simplicity. When 1 may be adequately 
produced, as I hope it may be, it should affect us as the tragedies of Aeschylus and Sophocles aifcct ed the Greeks.Last Wednesday evening m the Little Theater, before a first night 
audience which did not fill tl,c house, "The Dark Hours' was produced for the first tunc on any stage. It was adequately produced. Your reviewer, however, was 
not profoundly affected. He fu,?y in it no genuine tragic carthasis. As a play, it seem to him not a particularly good onfc. But it is not a very bad one, or a' dull one, and it has excellent parts.
"The Dark Hours is called on the i/rogram "Five Scenes from a History. In the first scene, the healing miracles and the claims of Jesus have disturbed Israel too 
much, and Caiaphas, "egged on by his father, determines to bring about Jesus downfall, which he intends to accomplish through Ju
das. The next scene lets us near
this Jesus struggling to make himself understood by his disciples, and finally betrayed into the hands of the High Priest by Judas kiss. Then follows the scene of Jesus trial by the Sanhcdrin. The interest in these three scenes is primarily ii$ Judas. Mr. Marquis has dcvclopca an original conception of the traitor, and Mr. Lewis plays this conception marvellously well. Aided by an excellent costume, studied makeup, and skilled lighting, Mr. Lewis, in fact, walks away with these first three scenes, making them into a tragedy of Judas, and breaking the unity of the per-, tormancc as a whole. For your reviewer, the supreme moment of the play was the end of the otherwise rather flat second scene, when Judas, left alone upon the stage, ponders wild-eyed his- treachery. Mr. Lewis acts Mr. Marquis Judas in a tremendously effective manner, and deserves much praise.The fourth scene represents Pilates attempt to save the seemingly innocent Jesus from the cruel fury of the Jews. Marred somewhat by the weak dramatic device of Procla and her dream, the scene was never-the-less unusually interesting because of Mr. Sullivans acting. Mr! Sullivan as a Roman is not an obvious casting, nor does Mr. Sullivans natural mask suggest it. His Pilate, how ever, is another triumph of his versatile talent, an astonishingly convincing dignified and aristocratic Roman patrician. Mr. Sullivans Pilate is a remarkably fine piece of work. Mr. Phclps clear and pleasant diction in this scene is also worth commendation.Then follows the last scene of all, the crucifixion at Golgotha itself, the cross just out of sight, offstage to right, the Roman centurions carelessly throwing dice for His seamless cloak. It is a scene of splendidly picturesque group- ngs, e-f effective chiaroscuro, i stirring conclusion to what has come before.
Mr. Wallace Seems to have done everything for "The Dark Hours" that a competent director could. So have Mr. Stout and the electricians. Miss Tcdrow, who will certainly do other line, things for 
s this year, makes the most of er gra,nd moment in scene three. Mr. Fisher has certain noticeable ocal characteristics, whose monotony he. has always managed to overcome in this production. His performance is good. Mr. Johns does the small part of a leper n scene one as satisfactory as he ilways docs the small parts lie gets. The crowd, which frequently relieves the play > of a suggested tediousness, is particularly good.\t is continually convincing, and never unartistically confused, which is a tribute to Mr. Wallaces directing as any one who has ob- erved ordinary stage crowd : well aware.
As a practice piece, the scope of "The Dark Hours is large
STUDENT OPINION
DEMOCRATIC
nough to enable most of the detriment to be fitted into it some here. Moreover, as experiment, I is the kind of play to which a rama school should occasionally give a try-out. The test of a play s its production. Mr, Marquis, in .ither ways, is a distinguishable American author. "The Dark Hours" is almost certainly not a great play, but it is a rather interesting one, and its production has- opened the Drama Department's season well.
A. 1C. N.
WOMENS ATHLETICS
(Continued from Page 5) 
with the large number of recruits, 
are expecting to produce results 
that will make the Mens teams 
give the Triangular match a little forethought.The first intercollegiate match of the season is scheduled with Ohio Wesleyan and Gettysburg.
TENNIS FINALS TO BE PLAYED
The tennis tournament has progressed until now 'with favorable weather the finals will be run off this week. The finals will be played between Dorothy Lynch and Florence Bright and Dorothy Pritchard and Helen Bright.It is very unusual for the Wo
mens Fall Tennis tournament lo be played through to the end. Eleanor Lemon, manager, has been very diligent in her efforts to see the tournament run through to completion.
LOST
On the Campus during the week of October 22, a bill fold and Railroad pass book with identification marked Homer J. Metre. Will I lie finder please leave this bill fold at the Registrar's office. The owner, who is a night student, is very much handicapped without his pass and would appreciate an earlv return.
BOWLING SEASON 
CONTINUESTwo weeks of the Womens Bowling season have gone by with ar. yet a representation from the Freshmen and Sophomore -classes very much below the average. It is not too late to come out and make the team or at least get W. A. A. points for attending a majority of practices. Points given are not necessarily earned by attending practice every day; the 
number of games played by each girl is considered in the final awarding of points. The girls.that 
have so far come out for bowling are very enthusiastic about it, and are determined that.^ their class shall win the final tournament.Practices arc held Tuesday > and Wednesday afternoons from 2:30 to 6:30 at the Knights of Columbus Bowling Alleys on Fifth avenue.
This class can be substituted for 
ones regular swimming class. 
Points for the W. A. A. may be earned by the N. R. C. badge. After having passed the tests, one a member of the National Life- Saving corps.
HOCKEY SEASON ENDSSo far, hockey as a sport is con lined to the gymnasium classes of Sophomores and Freshmen. Teams are selected from the" best players :n the classcs. The Sophomores were divided into two teams, the Reds and Yellows, and had their first game last Wednesday, October 31. The Red team won with a score of 4-1. Thursday the M. M. C. C. Freshmen - played the 
Fine Arts team and were victorious with a score of 4-0. The winning 
M. M. C. C. Freshmen played the v,inning Sophomore Ted team, and was defeated with a close score of 4-3.
VARSITY RUNNERS
VANQUISH WESTMINSTER
LIFE SAVING PROGRESSSwimmers who wish to obtain their National Red Cross Life-Sav
ing badges can enter a special Life-Saving class which Miss 
\ cakcl conducts every Thursday at 4:30. The only requisite for entrance is the ability to, pass a swimming test given merely to indicate that the applicant is able lo swim.
The tfsts arc usually completed at the end of a semester, although it is possible to do so in less time than that, if the candidate is sufficiently persevering.
(Continued from Page 5) bunched until near the end, when they started to spread out. As they passed under Panther Hollow bridge, the observation platform for all those who want to see how they are running when about half of the race is over, Captain Campbell and Salkin were running side bjr side and the next couple to come strolling down Lovers Lane were Worley and E. Myers, also side by side, about 10 feet behind the first two. Anderson brought up the rear without a partner. These five high-hat runners stayed away from the rest of' the pack until the finish, when they began to be high-hat to each other, and separated into single file before scratching up the finish .inc. Worley seemed the most eager to get away from the rest. His time was his best effort so far, and also the best among the Carnegie men this season.Coach Iialferty has not decided yet whether or not his country-cross- ers' will take part in the Allegheny Mountain Association championship race to be held over the Schenley Park course next Saturday. If the Tech runners dont take part in the racc they may go to Albany to sec the Gcorgctown-Carncgie game.
On November 16, the Plaid runners elose their season when they meet the Grove City trotters here. Westminster has already beaten Grove City and, with the decisive Plaid victory over Westminster on Saturday, it looks like Coach Hal- fertv will have a- perfcct season this year.
The purpose of election campaign is of coursc to inform voters of the issues of the various parties and to influence the voter in his decision. In this particular campaign there has been the usual an nouncemcnts ' of pledges, platforms, 
and forecasts of policy by both outstanding candidates. To form just opinion of the merits of cacti candidacy, one must look farther- back to the events of this year campaign. Each pledge made must be considered in the light of sunila pledges niadc by the same party 
as to the possibility of fulfillment. Each candidate must be judged by his associates as well as hi complishmcnts, and consideration 
must also be given the probabl circumstanccs under which the can didate must attempt /his program. With all this in mind, to me Alfred E. Smith appears to be the bcttc candidate for President.Of outstanding importance n many minds is the religion of Goy ernor Smith. The fact that Gov crnor Smith is  Catholic is a very.ood reason wily the country can expect ati liohlist and sincere attempt on the part of Governor Smith to carry out the duties ot President according to his oath. As a Catholic lie will be on trial and the knowledge of hostile observers awaiting his slightest misstep will prevent his abuse of power. .With Governor Smiths understanding that a mistake on his part will call down shouts of "'1 onv- Tom Heflin and his ilk upon all his co-religioniivjs the country may rest assured that his administration will conduct itself on -the highest plane possible and that real service will be rendered to the people.His stand in opposition to the Eighteenth Amendment is one that makes Governor Smiths candidacy more impressive, lie seems to be the only one who. can challenge the efforts of those organized minorities who arc attempting to force their beliefs on the rest of the country, lie is the only one able to stop the reactionary control of personal conduct which has made the Bill, of Rights and other safeguards of minority expression meaningless. If Smith is not elcctcd, in time this band of bigots will bring a puritanical blight, on this nation, with a total disregard for the opinions and rights of others . opposed to them. Unless there is a stop put to them, it is entirely possible that they will pass an anti-cigarette law, a book censorship amendment, and possibly an anti-evolution amendment preparatory to adopting a state religion. The election of Governor Smith would defeat the aims of this group and probably go a Ion way toward making the United States a temperate, tolerant na
tion. . .The matter of an honest administration in the best interests of the entire nation should also lead one to advocate Governor Smiths election. A return to office of the Republican administration would be an endorsement of its record as a parasite on the national wealth and resources. Teapot Dome is indeed a black eye to the present administration, involving directly several important cabinet members; and oil evasions seem to indicate a guilty conscience. The gentlemen in the 
commerce and interior departments are not yet conscious that anything irregular ever occurred.
Mr. Smith offers * a definite plan for farm relief. Perhaps lie is making a political attempt to grasp the farmer vote, but lie gives the farmer an attempt to say no. lhe Republican administration has long advocated farm relief. Three or | four more Republican administrations might attempt to bring it. Mr. Smith might at least be given an equal opportunity to procrastinate. _
As the campaign closes, whispers of "Tammany," "Pope, politician 
are heard and discounted for their worth-nothing. The real issues are outlived, thought upon and finally carried to the polls. There is no 
question of either man's ability. The question is more and more a record of administration of who is under and behind the high chair, 
of what is promised and what will be carricd out.
all the aspects of the current elcc- I tion. I do not intend to vote a straight ticket for any party, but my vote for President goes to Herbert Clark Hoover.Careful observation of the plat forms and principles of the two leading parties discloses only minor differences. It is somewhat doubtful whether the party makes any noticeable difference in the sclec tion of the new President, and th> final decision lies almost entirely with the candidate. Both politica groups have regrctablc instances in their past histories,. and both have signal achievements to their" credit. But this year the election is for a man, not a party.
Herbert Hoover is not a politi cian. He is a statesman, with the highly trained ability of a success ful administrator and business man the scientific education of a prac tical engineer, and the broad vision of an international citizen. What better combination could be desired for-the leader of one of the world's most pro m i n c n t communities Hoover is an authority on con servatism, manufacturing, merchan dising, agriculture, foreign trade, domestic cdmmcr.cc and international affairs. His knowledge on transportation problems, aviation, radio, electrical development aiv water power, flood control and factory operation, is unsurpassed by any other one man living in this country today.
In fact, Hoovers reputation is such that there has been no basis' whatever for even the slightest assault upon his character or public record. It is almost inevitable that in as hotly contested a race as the campaign for the Presidency, opposing candidates will reveal facts detrimental to their respective op poneuts,.but in the present campaign no personal attack what soever can be made against the Republican candidate, a truly remarkable situation in these days of political rings, trusts, subsidies and federal leases.Aside from domestic problems, the President of the United States docs, by virtue of his position, become highly involved in affairs of international interest. What could be more fitting than the election of a man to this highest office in 
our land who has bccomc the personal friend of European andOriental'leaders, who has acted as consultant and advisor to .the mightiest powers of the world, and who has demonstrated his unsurpassed ability to organize the domestic affairs 
of countries gripped by disaster? And above all, what is more- important than the election of a man who enjoys the confidence of American business and agricultural leaders, and whose personal' record ' of achievement for the past 15 years was alone strong enough to forcc 
his nomination, against the desires nd ambitions of an already strong political machinc?My vote will be cast for Herbert Clark Hoover for President of the United States because I feel that lie is the best man for the position, nd for no other reason.
"COLLEGIATE
SOCIALIST
REPUBLICAN
I am a Carnegie student, and today I cast my first vote for a Presidential candidate. I have not 
bccomc affiliated with any political party and my vote is not influenced in any way by precedent, family tradition or coercion in any degree. My vote is cast only' after some thought and consideration of
The blatant display of Hoover and Smith insignia upon the lapels of numerous worthy denizens of our fair campus confirms our secret suspicion - that college students in general, and Carnegie students in particular, instead of being a liberal and intelligent group, are a bulwark of conservatism. We have no personal antipathy toward either Mr. Smith or Mr. Hoover, but free advertising is indicative of insuf-r ficent mental equipment on the part of the purveyor.The average college student is so reactionary that he thinks Socialism means overthrowing of the government, bombs, red flags and the like, and thinks that La Follette is a rabid radical. After a year of economics, during, the exposition of which said student slept or attempted to sleep, it is certainly 
lamentable that ccrtain members of the faculty - are unable to say what they would like to, for there would undoubtedly be a few blocks wrested from the stone wall of conservatism.The' student appears to have chosen his political affiliation in one of several easy ways. His mind is made, up on political subjects before he knows what the work signifies. His father is a Republican or Democrat and 50 is lie (with words and music.) He devotes a great deal of rationalization to the explaining of his position, but to actually investigate the situation w;ould involve too great an expenditure of mental effort. If he is a Smith adherent, he throws various kinds of mud. at the opposition, exposes the corrupt pracThc nemesis of the University student has met him half way. He coined the word collcgiate a few years ago on his campus with a connotation that spoke of youth and gaycty and everything that was right, to find it now thrust back on him with a connotation that flavors of cheapness and everything that docs not appeal to the college students.Collegiate is the word of the day. It is applied to the yellow slicker, splashed in varied colors with John Held drawings, and timeworn jokes. The watching world smiles benignly and says "its collegiate. Fords that have run the gamut of ignominious treatment from factory to junk pile arc hauled out and dcckcd up with red' lanterns and verbal decorations in white chalk.But while these few innovations rcccivc patient and kindly treatment at the hands of the public, the con notation that is gaining prc-domin ancc over the corrcct meaning of the word is approaching the mark of question.Collegiate is being applied to things that are the direct antithc sis of . the word. The collcgc stu dent should be the leading type of citizen, whose taste in all things should be of the highest, yet you see advertisements of 10-ccn jewelry, labeling them the "late: collegiate crazc. Stories of collcgc life have been written in such number during the past year that you seldom pickup a magazine that docs not picturc.a mythical collcgc with all the trimmings that the unsuspecting citizen labels de 
risivcly collcgiate.Dancing that cannot be labeled by any other name is termed collegiate. It matters not what kind of dancing it is, or what the type of dancers, if it is different ant" savors of something not quite de finable, it is "collcgiate.When a word has implanted it self so firmly in the American vocabulary , with such disastrous results, it seems time to do awa. with it. When the collcgc student bccojucs the mark of attention because of the advertisements o cheap jewelry and the untrue stories of collcgc life it is time to boycott the Word and find a substitute that will hold the connotation that the student means it to have.The Minnesota Dai I;
FROSH HARRIERS WILLENTER A. M. A. MEET
(Continued from Page 5) championship races to be held next Saturday in Schenley Park. Experience is the main reward to be obtained from entering the frosh 11 the meet, as it is highly improbable that the yearlings will score against the varsity men of Pitt, Geneva, Westminster, Grove City, and Thiel. O11 November 16, the. plebes will meet Shadysidc Academy in the closing meet of the season. If they improve as ^liccly as they have during the last two weeks, the frosh should close the season with a clean slate.Next Saturday afternoon Car negie's home cross-country coursc in Schenley Park will be the scene of the senior Allegheny Mountain Association championships in the collegiate division. The contest will dc-de the A. A. U. championships for Western Pennsylvania and  is being conducted by the Pittsburgh Press. The meet is scheduled to start at 2 p. m., at the base of Flagstaff 
Hill.Coach Halfcrty has not decided whether or not Carnegie's varsity team will enter the racc, but is certain to enter his freshmen to give them some experience for next year. The varsity runners may go to Albany to witness the Gcorgetown-Car- ncgic game. The Plaid has only one* more meet this season, 011 November 16, with Grove City and Coach Halfcrty would like to give the trotters a rest to insure a perfect slate for the season. Carnegies plebe runners who will enter the championship races arc Rcichard, Price, Lord, Mccnan, Carr, Krebs, Koks, and Diges.Among the colleges to enter teams
' VARSITY MEETS 
j I GEORGETOWN U.
(Continued from Page 5J in putting over two touchdowns in the first half. It was this tilt that brought to light the fact that Carnegie's defense against forward passes was woefully weak. Next came W. & J. and, after' eight long, lean years of hopeful waiting for a victory, the boys came through 19-0. The score showed 
the marked superiority of the Plaid over the valiant Red and Black from Little Washington. A week ago last Saturday the Tartans matched wits with their arch enemy, the Pitt Panthers. Playing 
on a water-soaked field, the team gots its first real taste of handling a wet and slippery ball. Although the speed of its flashy backficld 
was materially hampered, the Plaid, relying almost entirely on straight 
football and brute strength,-marched forth from the Stadium with a 6-U scorc tucked securely in the treasure bag of victories.This Saturday, after a well- earned rest, the rcd-jerscycd men travel up to the capitol city of New York state to tussle with the widely heralded eleven from 
Georgetown Unversitv. Undoubtedly, Georgetown will give Carnegie a lot to think about before the days doings arc over. The Washingtonians not only have a imputation, but also the ability to uphold that reputation. Standing jit the top of the scoring ladder 
m the East with 249 points to their crcdit and fresh from a 7-2 Victory over New York University, they appear as one of the most 
formidable teams in the country, ihc following Saturday, the Gar
iy'61? fS(lu:id W>11 travel to South bend for the game the whole coun- tiv has been waiting forCarnegie lech versus Notre Dame Carnegie has had its ups and Notre Dame has had its downs, but when tnesc two elevens meet 011 November 1/ there will be no favcrritc. Needless to say, the Irish arc not 
1.1 the same state of mind that they enjoyed two years ago. This 
year they realize that it will take all they possess to down the Tar- laiis and Knutc Rockiie will not be m Chicago.
The final game of the season will be played at Forbes Fieldon November 24 with New York University. This game ought to be the one to till the ball park 
for Chick Meehans boys run sec- ond only to Georgetown in the matter of points scored. The New Workers won in 1926 and 1927 the only years that they have been on the lartan schedule, but they will have one grand and glorious 
, their hands in trying toturn the trick this time, provided Cl course that the Plaid players do not forget all the . footballC'.nlled into them by Coaches Steffen and Waddell, which is highly improbable.
Ill three more weeks the 1928 
football season will be history, i. e j1 will be history in every respect but the cheering. After the season IS over everyone is not going lo 
lapse into a sudden stale of silence, after the team has thoroughly lounced Georgetown, Notre Dame 
ind New York University there ill be celebrating to do. At the present time it's up to the students lo hack the team so that the boys 
who play and make famous the name of Carnegie will know that hey can t wait until the last foot ball is deflated and stored away 
f?lhcr tokens of victory, bringing the curtain dbwn on a successful season and up on a suc- cessftil round of merry-making.
I From The Fence !
ticcs of Mr. Hoover, calls certain people unprintable names, andswells out his chest. On the otherhand, should he be a Hooveritc, lie centers his attention on the disruption of Mr. Smith, literally and 
figuratively. Mr. Smith is a product of Tammany, a low-brow, and drunken debauch. (Boys, pagethe Women's Christian Temperance Unionwith special attention toMabel Willebrandt!)Both factions unite in earnest and thorough condemnation of any third party that may arise to agitate the public, or the ether. Our fair nation must not be desecrated 
and defiled by these associates of Trotskyemphasis on the sky and we will take the law into our own hands to prevent any such . contingency. (Rotarians and Ki- j { wanians stand up.) Oh yes, wt almost forgot, Mr. Smith, in ad dition to the other epithets applied to him, has been referred to as the envoy of the Pope of Rome. This naturally leads us to the religious notions entertained by the hoi-polloi.As Marx once remarked, the theologian is similar to the economist. All doctrines other than his own are heresy. The adherents of various sects have spent so much time exchanging inverted compliments that they have lost sight of the end for which they are striving. Alas, our liberal college student suffers from the same delinquencies. He segregates himself accordingly as to whether lie is Catholic, Lutheran, Protestant, or a Hebrew, and indulges in the same hash-tossing, with possibly a more refined style. It is not unusual to find a^ good Christian student who holds every one of i Semitic extraction personally responsible and accountable for the i Crucifixion, but flatters himself that he is broadminded.To expect any improvement would be exaggerated optimism, further deterioration would be impossible, 
so we shal lclosc appropriately and pedantically with the Latin of the immortal Milt Gioss"Expcrentia docet stultos.
arc Geneva,. Westminster, Thiel, Pitt and Grove City. Geneva now holds 
1C team championship as a result of
aT V,Ct?ry- last meet.Adams of Pm won the individual
Sa5!1i,nsi,p 1:!St s?ason wilh a time r rv c sx m|les. Caesarof J itt, seems to be the best of this section this year. His time over the 
bchcnlcy coursc of the Pitt-Carncgic meet, won by Carnegie, was 29:41. 
uencva should repeat their victory tins year, judging from season results.
Gold, silver and bronze medals will be awarded to the place winners and silver cup will he given to the winning team.
Aviation Club To Meet
Tuesday, Next Week
At its meeting on Tucsdav, November 13, the Aviation Club will 
nY,C a,S "ucsts Mr- Clifford ball, the Pittsburtih-Clcvcland air mail contractor. Mr. Ball is well known in local circles and has al- vyays been a hearty supporter of the club. It is expected that Mr. Balls talk will be highly interest-.  and every student with an inWc have been the recipient oi several brickbats since last week when wc came out with our lauda- torv remarks about the illustrious griil. Not many people seem to aercc with us, and besides they're atl putting up a fuss about the prices in the Beanery. We really cant get very much cxcitcd about the fact that' fruit salad has gone up 10 ce^ts because wc never eat in the Beanery in the first placc, and, if wc did, fruit salad would be the last thing wed think of ordering; in the second placc the point of all this being that nothing our gentle readers have said has altered our point of view in the least.* * vi
The prospect of a nightmarist history quiz kept us front participating in the victory holiday last week, but from numerous reports 
wc gather that the proverbially good time was had by all. Several important details, however, were thoughtlessly omitted. What wc d like to know is who the perfectly grand little blond Arts Plebe is who led the cliccrs, who the D. U. is who has all the drag down at the court house, and how lie gets that way, and also the exact number of co-eds that comprised the cscort of "Stone Crusher, or Bone Crusher, or What have you Karcis! v
But we promise to forget all about Pitt-Tech games until next year. Were so sick of arguing with all our friends from across the street car tracks. Why cant some people be gracious and give the devil his due. If they think it makes any difference to us how many first downs cach side made, theyre terribly mistaken. The point is that we won and they lost. What absurdity to say that wc were outplayed. And what a day for a game! We certainly- hope that everyone elscs apparel wasnt as completely ruined as ours. Again were asking everyone on _ both sides of this trolley to say Thats that, until^ nc.xt^ year.t
To speak of concerts again, the opening performance of tilc Pittsburgh Symphony was a real treat.It was thrilling to sco the crowds. that filled the. Mosque. Were awfully proud of \tlic citizens of this fair metropolis who undertook to stand by this Sunday night symphony idea. And heaven didn t seem so awfully far away, when wc were listening to that truly divine music. Eugene Gooscns, the guest conductor, is an interesting 
person to watch, and since all the critics say, wc guess wcne safe in saying that he is also a fine conductor. Cyrena Van Gordons "Cry of the Va Iky re" made every drop of Teutonic blood that courses through our veins turn cold.
* .J
i Printing News |
i____________________,t
The Printing Department y,S 
rccently received from the Smjthsonian Institute at Washington, D.
C., 12 large wall-platcs showing
the various proccss.es of the graphic art. The plates are on exhibition . in the Department office, Room 120, Industries building, for twoweeks, beginning yesterday, and may be viewed by all interested.The exhibit is a loan from theSmithsonian Institute and must be returned in two weeks.* * * * *
A. C. Jewett, Director of the College of Industries, and David Gustafson, head of the Department of 
printing, have been invited to attend a convention of the National Printing Industries to be held in Rochester, N. Y., on November 
8-9. Among the .topics to be discussed at the meetings arc: Color Rcproduction," "Lithograph and 
Bronzing," Imposition and Color 1 Proofing," and "Education in Print- ing." On the closing day the guests- will be taken on a plant in- i spcction tour that will include with- i in its scope the visit to the Last-  man Kodak plant.
tcrcst in aeronautics is invited to be present. The meeting will be held at 7:30 p. m. in Room 216 Industries building.The club 'officers wish to stress the point that these meetings arc not confined to members of the dav courses, nor to male student-. Night students and M. M. C. C. as well as Arts girls are equally eligible to membership and full participation in all of the organization's activities.
BULLETIN BOARD
arge407,ion.
The Tartan will publish this column as a weekly feature, so that its readers may be able to see at a glance the events, of the week. In order that this column may contain a complete list, students in cha of events are asked to co-operate by sending in information to Box  Campus post office, by Friday noon, preceding the date of publicat1 Tuesday, November 6 11:30 A.M.General Assembly. Music Hall.
6:30 P.M.Meeting and dinner; Students' Club of the First Baptist Church. Speaker, Dr. Petty.
7:00 P.M.Meeting: Budget Committee of the Student CouncilStudent Council pffice.7:30 P.M.Meeting: Student Council.
8:15 P.M.Lecture: Music Hall; Rockwell Kent.
Wednesday, November 7 2:30 r. M!Meeting and tea: Faculty club room. Womens Club oi C. I. T., Russell T. Hyde, speaker.4:30-6:00 P. M.Tea Dance: Union. Mens Dorm Council.7:00P.M.Meeting: Theta Tau. Room 53 E. H.
Thursday, November 8 6:15 P.M.Meeting: Tcknoti Club. Shadysidc Presbyterian Church.Friday, November 9 9:00 P.M.Military Ball. Carnegie Union.
Saturday, November 10 2:00 P.M.Football: Carnegie Tech vs. Georgetown University atAlbany, N. Y.
8:00 P.M.Informal Evening PartyFaculty Club RoomWomens Club of C. I. T., Mrs. R. B. Lcighou, hostess.Sunday, November 11 3:00 P. M.Meeting: Theta Tau. Y. M. C. A. Club Room.
6:00P.M.Meeting and Luncheon: Bandhu Club, -Shadysidc Presbyterian Church.
6:00 P.M.Meeting: Oxford Club, Oakland Methodist Church.Monday, November 12 HOLIDAYNO CLASSES.3:00-6:00 P. M.Tea Dance. Union. Student R6MES11 2
