MUSIC DEPT. BECITALS 
SensB of lour starts May 16THISTLE OUT SOON .
Watcn Btuieun Boants lor Jate
VOL.XXI NQ. 33CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF. TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 17, 1927
CARR TO HEAD 
YEARLY SENIOR 
WEEK RITES
Licftited Number of Events 
to Include Commencement 
Bail to be Held on June 6
EXAMS START. 23RD
Fonctions Planned To-Give Re
tiring Seniors Last 
'Glimpse of Campns.
Flans for the annual Senioi Week have been progressing Blow ly under the pressure of Camr*i Week arrangements and the- 1m pending examinations. Senlo:: will , begin next Monday Ma#-,;23, lasting- five days. Jobi Carr; 'Senior architect and presl /dentf O the retiring Student Council,' has been selected to bead the .work of the Senior Week commit- tee, and In conjunction with the several ' fourth-year MUSIC pres: dents, lie expects to fonnulat * definite plans for the eelebratioj within the next week.
In the past years, the extensive plans for celebration of the graduates .have hardly been consistent with the aafcesslve demands upon their 'time, -and It baa- 'been  geBted that .the functions this year. . be limited tit wo. Of these, the annual commencement' ball, held, on the evening of June 6, will be one. The ball will probably be held In the Arts Foyer, as this location bos been found best suited for several years. The' other event -.- will likely be either a banquet, /boat ride or swimming' party, .'.Senior .week Is an instltnt^on de- sLgil to1 enable the'departios sniora to enjoy ~tbelr. last few dy' at Carnegie with their fello s classmates. . The various even 
are Intended to'bring the membe of" .the class into more Intima intact with one another and roughly /enjif enable tbek : the companionship or the  . four-year'/i
Wilson and Cannon 
Will Headjhistle
The following officers have beei elected by the Thistle StafT for tin 1928 Thistle. These election!. have- met with the approval of the Student Council.To David Wilson falls the posl tion of editor-in-chief. He Is a ..'member of the Beta Tbeta pr Fraternity and has been pledged, by- Pi Delta Epsilon and 1*arles.. Skull
. business mii elected i 
pledged by Delta Skull
;a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity.Under the excellent manage!
. Qf^thls.year's. Th^qe Staff. Carnet gie's Year Book will appear o . Campue as a fitting record of the school's activities. The ThlBtle is expected to come out the latter
the . first of the'following week. This years Thistle will be a distinct departure from that of former years. Within the Thistles' 392 pages will be found many unusual and -novel . features;  -The ;cia&fea]- theme- Ifl 'earrted - ont -in 'the main divisional pageB. The part of the book devoted to athletic activities has been, greatly, larsed. The Thistles cover . deaign will be a pleasing contrast to that of former yean. Copies of the.-Thlstle may be.obtained e V. M. A. oftko when they
. GIRLS- GLEE
CLUB HOLDS ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The i9 fol-lows:. Miriam Cupps, president; Dorothy Roy, manager; Gladys 
Connor,' assistant manager; Helen need,' secretary-treasurer; Helen 
Bhnl. librarian, and Mary Far- baugh. assistant librarian.\/v\T?he gJrls.h^ve:bQd a,very suc- .'cesaful year under the direction 'of A1 Johnston, graduate of the. Carnegie Music Department The club '.voted unanimously to cont'aue under; his leadership next year. The general feeling ts that the Girls' ' Glee Club-has been moreBUCcass- ful this year thin for many years previously. and Ihe girls have even . brighter, prospecte foe the future. ;-MoHoD' Lewis..and .'Lero.-EbriC;re- vtbing-manager. and president, contributed greatly toward the -suc- . cee's of the' Glee Club this year.The gfris Vho have, earned actlv;:.Giee oiub t
.^Iri.the Bowery^ district in .New - -York,.there are precincts where as ;jriany as 95. per cpnt of th voters ;.;'resp<piid. hut. thtfre is ' no ' "allkVstocklng'. lstrIct! where- any sucn  Afeh'per -ceTit. of active votejes can  bofound. The contrast is odious. %v-, Conscientious voting Is part, of the-.duty of every qualified student -.cltlMn, and In no better way can .-.the.atandard of- political life be raised, and in no more worthy
ANNOUNCE FALL-LECTURE - | r>f\n nprT' IV/If 
OF ANCIENT ENGLISH MUSlg | LURBET1 WILL
CART COHEDYL 
SNSIWKUAB1 HEEOTII
:i^ Tech, Yal| Harvard, Vasaar, Smltfc and Wilson. -'Mr;" Fellcrwes will end his tour early lu December in order return to England for the Chrii 
Windsor Castle,heretinIs direct
Fellowes apPhi Kappa Psi Wins 
Cup For the Best 
Decorated House
Sigma Ajpha Epsilon Given 
Second Place For 
Modem Hell
With the best decorations of all 
migratory dances of Carnegie Tech, 
the Phi Kappa Fsl fraternity won 
the cup offered by the Alpha Rho 
Chi honorary for the beet decorated 
raity house.' The judges R. C. 
Hyde and Bob Schpertz, decided 
that tbe Phi Kappa Pal house was
theninsistei
with tbe'/modernlstlc and futuristic 
.' Second place was wi 
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. 
Beta Sigma Rho was third. 
>Igma Phi Epsilon fourth.
In the house of the winner 1 
ooms were decorated. Using only 
)lack and white, the wbIIb o 
ooms were Covered with m 
none .room gioat  mushrooms, 
togs and birds made iip a futurisic woodland scene. Another room 
vaa decorated with deep sea paint* 
ngs including sea weed, fishes and 
iclopue' The theme of the third
Baccalaureate.Sermon Will 
Be Delivered by Dr. Hu^h 
Black Sunday Tune 5
the graduating class or Carnegie. Dr. Hugh Bli professor of practical theology the Union Theological Semin in New York City, has accepted the invitation to deliver tbe bacca*0* tljimpertaining
The only color was .the rec 
f the lighting system whlcl 
ery effectively used A spra: 
sed on the painting to softei 
the lines of "the .queer, futuristic ihapes and.objectsAlpha, Epsilon housidecorated'.Hell'. y0n imodeiealis)
i bung from the
hldderi' lights. Glai
irebletorlc animal eaping figures featured tbe cu -ork. In ttie Sigma Phi Epslloi draperies and murals Wer On tbe walls the modernistic ncles of dress were described, or the other.fraternities haditiona, interior almost equally as gc standing impressionod: The
TO IMPROVE CAMPUS 
DURING THE SUMMER
Improvements W Incjude 
Concrete Walk Over Cat.
smietad-j.aerap  th^cijt JJI.U.llssind earthworms. Their shoes no ipngerkjok like farm shoes, when/the rainy season begins. They will no' longer have son to apologize for tbe con- of their feet.9 students .will find tbat the studios of the north iving. third oiirth floors of the Fine Arte Building, have been remodeled,.and dapted to meet their , special
They .wDl find . the '.'Beanery'' much" enlarg'ed, ;tfie* R.-.3.0.,;T. C, leadquarters moved from Langley ^ab, to- Machinery HaU, and ths iart of 'Langley Lab has been con erted Into an automobile labon ofy. And they will find a ne< loor In the forgo shop.They will Notice that the city of Pittsburgh will have opened Frew 
:t, between Langley Labora- and Schenley Pajk.
Depaiiered ttake i, has
id, New York, ill fie a member of the , Commanding' .General, nd Corps .Vrea. Before his new duties he will unmandgr of the R-'O. Dp at Fort Monmouth. New Jersev.Captain sbenll's position at irnegie will be filled DE First eutenant Wiley V. Carter, who wa$ graduated from the United Military Academy In 1918: At preseut. he Is a student at the Army. Signal School at Fort> MontheiCorbett, who I;
Uolvorslty of California and of the Ecole ties Beaux Arts In Paris,' Is a lecturer in architecture at Columbia University, a member of the advisory board of the School oi Architecture at Princeton and a member of the Fine Arts Commission for the State of Now York. Some of the buildings which be has built as the chief architect are the Maryland Institute. Brooklyn Masonic Temple. Springfield. PT.CIBA Municipal Group. New York Sthool Applied1 Design for Women. Bush Terminal,Office Building |D New York, the Bnsh HouBe In London, George Washington Masonic National Memorial at Alexandria,! Va., and the Kings County Hosnl- tal Building. Holy Innoc Church, .and St. Francis Xav School, all of Brooklyn.
Dr. Black, a native of Scotland, where he was  ordained to the .ministry, received the honrar gree of D. Lltt. from the Unlve of Pittsburgh in 1917. Horn degrees, as D. D. hare been ferred by Princeton, Yale, and (Continued bn Page Foi
American Committee Selected 8TH CARNEGIE 
Fer Twenty-Sixth InternationalWEEK
A BIG SUCCESS
Six
on theAmerican Advisory Committee for the Twenty-sixth Carnegie Institute International Exhibition. They are . Eugene Spelcher, Horatio Walker, Henry Lee McFee, Eugene Savage. Andrew Dasburg and Abram Poole.
This committee will make up the list of American artists to be Jnvlted to send paintings to,the exhibition and they will also serve as a Jury to pass on painting6 submitted by American artists. For the latter purpose they will meet In New York on September 7 and in Pittsburgh on Soptember
i the Jury of Award which it In Pittsburgh . on Sep- 21. This Jury will award
have, Carnegie International Exhibitions.
Second Prize ............ Third Frlze .................
First Honorable Mentlou ouv All tbe members of ihe Advisory I Committee are known In Pitta to Pi burgh through their paintings In) Septei
Homer Sp/at-Gaud< of Fine Arts at Carnegie Institute, left foj- Europe last evening (Friday, April 29) on board tbe Homeiic on his annual trlp .ln search; or paintings for tho Carnegie Institute International Exhibition. - He will visit artists in Germany, .France,. Spain. England and Italy tp soled paintings which be shown UD the Twenty-sixth ternatjonal.
The Twenty-sixth 0 Carnegie ternatlonal is betng held under tbe patronage of tbe Secretary of tbe Treasury and Richard Boatty Mellon whose generosity has made the exhibition possible this 
The International will Pittsburgh on October 13 and will do9e' on December 4. Immediately after (be close of tbe sho- Pittsburgh arrangements have been 
made )to show the European paintings - at the Brooklyn Museum, New York, and at the California Palace of the -Legion of Honor In San 'Francisco.Mr.< Salnt-Gaudents will return Pittsburgh abqut tbe first oiinber.
Kappa Sigma Victor 
ious in Sweepstakes
Beta Theta Pi Wins Design 
Cup Donated by Scabbard 
and Blade
2nd Coal Conference 
To Be Held in 1928
Will Uncover New Inform
ation Regarding Problems 
of Soit-CoaJlJQ,se _ .
Coal held at the Can
The firsnfere
aber of 192S, president of inced todi
which, icalled by Pr< purpose of finding new uaes 
teclally 
liquefying coal to supplement the petroleum oil supply of the world. More than 1,700 delegates Including represen tatlves of 13 different countries at tended. The speakers Included Dr Frederick Berglus and Professoj Franz Fischer, who have success fully liquefied; -coal; General rGeorges - -Patart-and- Jean Bing, mce; Dr. C. H. Lander, GoeffTey Gilt. Harttd Nielsen, and" Di Lesslgn., of England; and sei eral other Well-known foreign sc itlsts in addition to a long list prominent Amoriean engh and men of affAlrs and sclen President Baker stated that second conference will be planned to'Uncover whatever new informs 
Uon is"maae available 'diirlni-thi coming two years regarding vari ous problems In tbe use of soft
THE NATION" TO HOLD 
WORK STORY CONTEST
I lltei
$100, $50., $25 and $15 to college itudents for tbe best accounts of heir .? experience - as - workers1 In mining, agriculture or industry ing their summer vacation. This Is th third year these prizes have been offered by The Nation. Yale, Halyard, Michigan, Wls- >nsln, Johns Hopkins, Bryn Mawr, berltn, North Dakota, Northwest- -n. Stanford and the University of Pennsylvania .were represented the 1929. contest, won by Sol Auerbach' of .the' University "Pennsylvania ' with' his essay,' "Taxi. MJater?" *hlch appeared in The Nation f March 9. The seo snd prize was awarded to Alfhild Johnson of Oberlin for an account t>f her experience In a' hardware factory and the thlTd prize went to William C.-Putnam of Stanford University for his essay, Serfs of the - Sea. The purpose, of the contest is to 
encourage students to supplement their-dassroom -knowledge of Industrial problems with' actual ex- ictience and flret-hand observa- lon. The rules - governing this ronteat are: 'The-contest Is open to graduate and undergraduate students, men -omen, who were enrolled In American college or university in the , spring of lv27. and
ternity Sweepstakes finals, . held last Saturday morning, in th<
Delta Tau Delta yae, 15 4-5 seconds, icond.and Theta XI third.
This occasion marks the fourth time in the past five yeara that-.Lhe speedy little Clyde street^bns has crossed the finish line In the Greeks* classic. . victorious. Piloted by Russ Roller, tbe Kappa Sigma won Its heat on Friday morning, with Phi Kappa second. PI Kappi Alpha, last year* winner, finlstied second in the heat won by Delta Tau Delta; but was disqualified from competing in tho finals .on ac count of an infraction of th rules The heats were marred by an ac cldent to the Kappa Sigma Rbi car. which suffered two broken wheels, luckily without- injury th driver.  '<Eight can lined up for starter's gun on Saturday nomi Delta Tau Deit reached tbe of the bill first, but tho Kai Sigma car breezed by them oil
i tho lead to thei Theta PI .i the
Kappa and Delta 'Mu socond and third. The Phi Ki Psi car, a ^remarkable copy of the great racei used by Majoi grave In breaking speed record sotne w< 
rived too late to compete In the dei design Judge;
nd Dibble; and the other Judges were Profespora McKee. Hower, and . Treieler; Lleutonant Arrowsmltb; . &nd Messrs. Vlerheller, Daniels, Beu- kema, Shaffer, Irwin and- Doaey.The committee In charge :of the Blghtb Campns Week Sweepstakes was as follows: Fred "Woods,chairman; R. Buckley, J. Deane, Don Campbell, J. Schmid, and-Jim Bair.
 The cups were awarded on Saturday night at the show. The speed cup, which must be won three times for permanent posses-' ded by Alpha Tan,national scholastic 
ha College of Industries. Design cup is awarded pan entlr eath yaar by Scabbard Blade, national Military honoi
ELLA SCANLON IN 
CELLO RECITAL SUN.
Mias Ella Scanlon, senlor Mn the 
Department of Music will be pre
sented in a recital of 'cello music 
Sunday evening, May-.22, In This -Is the
WillsonadCn dH
MINING OFFERED
Bureau of Mines Cooperates 
in Giving B Fellowships in 
Mining and Metallurgy
In co-operation with tbe Pittsburgh Experiment Station of tho United States Bureau of MlneB, eight research fellowships in mining, and-metallurgy will be offered by Carnegie  during'. the coming year. The fellowships are open to graduates of colleges, universities uid technical schools who properly qualified to undertake Benrch. Idyestlgatlons.
- Each fellowship carried a stipend <tt $750.00 paid in ten monthly stalljhente. The period of ei will be from August 15. 1927, June .15, 1928. The purpose is solution or problemB'-which are peolbl impoi
Don Dalton and His Aides 
Put on Classy Features; 
Every Event Gcod
The 1927 Campus Week cloee-l las'l Saturday night with rings of approval from all, this tli a deep oote of sincerity. Months of labor and planning culminated in a short three days of perfect festivity. This year It seemed that every event was carried through a little more successfully than ever before.The week started Wednesday night with the Migratory dance. Fraternity and Dormitory mon Joined In making the event memorable.- Music apd decoration:pieniandTbe prizetor decorations was' carHed byPhrKapa Pel. with Sigma Alpha Epsilon a doss second.Thursday morning brought tbe Campus Week Vaudeville Sho' welcome relief from long stilted acts. Though the program Included 20 varied acts, none was al lowed to run over five minutes. Too much cannot be said for the quality of the performances themselves. Just how Oscar Norbock retrained. alive-through the sword thrusting paen Is atlll a mystery.Thursday afternoon brought Its usual Btore of- sarcastic .groans,, surprises and disappointments? the groans from - tbe regulation ihmen, the Burprliolntmc iry calls, with thi outnumbering thi
lying the
metallurgies) 'and allied industi Several of the fellowships will be finance4 by Industrial 'grout
during the coming prog tbe following:
Origin nnd Conelltuwn The determination and at of coking constituents c Comparison' of methods;, i mining the oil and tar : coal; The composition of
MiniDetei
Littletal foi: instmentaalone thatmepib.er. of a g class. The
J. S. Bacb.. ..Suite'll! in C maJor Prelude Sarabande Bouree 1 and 13
UnaccompaniedII
Romberg. ..Concerto.lt ilniDunojor Andantegrazioflp. ilnt-Saeni^AUegro/Aptwsshinata'Faure. ....................V;.:. ElegieHIirahms. .Sonata in F. minor. Op. 38 Allegro non troppo Allegrettp quasi Mlnueto Allegro (Fugato)
Lucille'Burrell atthe-Piano At 8:30 In the Thekter, College of Fine Arts No cards of admission required.'
of 1927. 
ind adlonths In-the contestant') class and college.of employer, and dates of employment: also tbe name of a of the faculty of the contestant's school wao' vouches for s or her eligibility.
Manuscripts must bo typewrtt- n -and not over 4.000 words'In Page Four.) -
EIGHTH C. W. SHOW IS 
A MARKED SUCCESS
Wast that the prisoner paries before his last, sunrise, was the hore d oeuvres of Campus Week Activities, "The Deals Deo, which played last Friday and Saturday nights; for the audience, ipting the final featlve cnimb 
with- that- whoie .iieartcd -sptrJt .of. loncbolance befitting the doomed, eallzed only too well that the vaming streaks of dawn will soon ippear- when their fate must be ian6crlbed Into small blue covered
Against an,aquarium setting, the exotic abode of Jim Honghton. Greenwich village bachelor, .w unfolded a lampooning and harpooning or fish food wit. that In Its flaky white criapneBS, served as a delightful and effectual peptic for thpse who ,h^ become^vitiated,by the Mardt Gras'a<n^"ni>>f>r<,i:i/<-An~-,>.- 
islties' of Cam]Wiee-crachs w< listeners with tbe staccato clarity t)f a machine gun; and with a plot swutiy moving, although at times slightly obfuscated by Incidental an# extrinsic situations which 'evanesccd in their longevity, at ib4 close of-the-evening the. canker .had been thoroughly eliminated; 'wlth-llbations'- of -approbation- and
ahousiUke the cinema, however, to dispell advereltles would be' to acknowledge Irrefutable emirs; so that in looking back,, the resilient .side of the silk Is all that shimmers in our mirror of remembrance. Eleanor Lewis, infinitely charming as Leslie Brent, arosd no doubt 
as to i'h she 'ws'tlie cynosure of attraction, while ftobert Pike gave her, as the leading man admirable support In the role of Jim Houghton. Marion Beesons interpretation of the Seorita was deliciously entertaining. Donald Bellows Willdlaapj honor polntiprises aboul for the best, though..Thursday evening the- Coronation dance was held In the Union and the Gymnasium. The Coronation of the Campus Week Queen, Miss Emily Fulton, took place at
Kappa Sigma Wins 
Country Fair Cup
Wcodlawn and Henderson 
Also Awarded, Prizes
Tho 1927 Thistle wilt probably be on sale the latter part of next week and there are still some ten or twelve 6ales books which have oot been turned In to the business manager. It Is absolutely essential that those persons who still have sales .books unchecked, to' turn thorn in this week. Tbe books, can be turned in at the Publications Office this week between the hi of 12:30 nnd 1:30 p. m.
ELECTIONS FOR 
NEXT YEAR ARE 
FINALLY MADE
H0N0RARIES CALL 
CAMPUS LEADERS 
AT QUALIFICATION
Freshm'an Bury Old Man 
P. R. With Impressive Rit
ual and Ceremony
Next Yeare Officers Are at 
Last Chosen After 
Many Ballots
The class olilcers for the school year 1927-25 in the various schools have been eloctod nttor an election
il in by tho different fraterni- and domltorloB to placo their eutaUv.e in office. This no t explains the cause of 60
Ninefraternities is sued thoir calls at the Qualification Day Exercises. In addition, the remains of "Old Man -Picho Rgulations" were safely laid to resi tbe sod of tho CarnegieThere
but thein tbe part of the p| sincerity of their m 
Ing may not be doubted.
Tho "mourners assembled fore the central building, after which they marched slowly spot chosen ns the final resting place.......................... 'tlos,"tbe deci 
playing a mournful dirge, led the procession. Carleton to robes of tho ministry, preceded the six sturdy polluters who eupported the coffin. >e rank and file of tbe* claBB of 10 formed tho body of the pro- BBlon. Upon reaching the grnvo. } sermon LeI preached and tbe inrners filed post the caskot, opplng Into its depths llttlo tens of their love, such .S dinki black ties, etc.
'ojio-!this imroeeJvf
ho Country Fair on Saturday, 
was held In the Gym be 
In, Kappa Sigma fraternity 
he fraternity stunt cu] 
lawn Dorms won th< 
ed for the best girls dorm 
and Henderson Ilall wo 
ven for tho best stunt
mltor>
The stunt which won thie cup for 
the Kappa Sigma fraternity wai 
called "The Airplane Ride. Foi 
those who took the ride, the thrill! 
of going up in an airplane - wen 
given. Through cleverly^deslgnec 
apparatus, the 'apettator'was rook
ed while he watched scenery as 
seen from an airplane. The Woodlawn Dorm were"awarded a cup.for 
the stunt "Four Ways of Saying 
Good-Night" Henderson Hall re 
ceived a cup for the best Men'! Dorm Stunt, a series or side show acts. In this group the dancing girl end. strong,, looa.. ..drew . much .applause. Besides these stunts indl* idnal stunts were given. A new and. elaborate invention for cracking peanuts was demonstrated and several 'Scottish dances were pre sented. All Minetta danced to raro music and the KeyBtone Hops show- sd forjthe first-time tbe new way to
spite of the fact that it was -ugeiessary to hold the .Fair lndoors, the' impression of 'air was given. Abovo the musle 
if the grind organ could be heard he shouts of the barkers telling tbe rorld about Sambo the Dodger the Wild Man from Borneo, and red- iot Hot Doga. Baltoons added color o the Fair, and the startlli developed by the "shrieks of lat 
pies which wer with reckleas abandon wera snapped by the spendhtrift fair goers total disreptrdlng of* cost .AcFor all .regular summer afhool objects registration and payment if fees will Uke place. Monday, nine -13,- from' nine to twelve 'dock and from one-.to.f6ur. Tfi'e registration for the 'slx 'weeks; course will take pla'cfe Monday, 27. Classes wl|l begin on the day. following registration In both. t.he regular anil1 the short mmmer courses. From tbe num- jer of applications thaV have already' been sent in for  theBe :ourses it Ib Jestlmated that the en- -ollment will be: larger this year ;han in previous years.Many of. the. sqmmer students ire - teachers from Pittsburgh, and /Jcinity who wish-to'take tip some Bpoclal work. There are also.many :udents - from night school', who desire to take additional work In ummer. The rest of the applicants are  largely regular day students who have failed in only le or two subjects and who wiBh i finish them so as .to start with
>ny, another link wns added, the Carnegie chain by William choscn an the Plebe i greatest proficiency forging. John Cat of the student council, then cove the address of welcom to the class of 1930, the reepons being mado by Joe" Bush. Dot Dalton, .chairman of the Campui .Week Committee, then took the stand and called those chosen by the varioua honorarias. - Tboso called by the. Dragons, the senior honorary for,men,.-tiro .as.follows:.James Auetraw, Alvin
MUtton, John McNair, Ted Moore, Don Putt, Mnrk . Seibert, Jerry Seibert, Fred Woods. f
Pi Dotta Epsilon, mens Journalistic fraternity, colled Jerry Selb- fert, Dave Wilson, Walter Pierson. Fred Woods, Merldlth- Stump, Shelby McMllllon, Herbert Grau,, Art SIdels, Tom Cannon, and Mr. Lawler (honorary member.)Alpbn Chi Alpha, womens honorary Journalistic, called Elizabeth McPadden. Louise Koenig,-Mar. jorie Sfiodgraes.. and Miriom Mar- golln.
. Clef Club, musical honorary, called Frederick Chapman, Durbin Horner, Robert Boyd, Kenneth Brooks, Joaepb Chamberlain,- Einar Kumpf, James Smiley,
) Three)
WOMENS EVENTS FORM 
IMPORTANT PART0FC.W.
eiveri a majority ocessnry to place The College, of o only school to
Englnooriug taking tho longost time to choose its officers.- The reaults or the elccliou are ae folMARGARET MORRISON
President, Elizabeth Burkohouse Vico Presldont, Adele Hahn secretary, Florence Balph Treasurer, Katherine Lowe Social Chalrmau, Hannah EastVlce Prsidant,,HclloiSecre, Hcorlotta Acerpster. HelloriVnrdSocial OrnimiSophomores. President, Margaret Wogetoy Vice President, Charlotto Ball Secretary, Kathorlne 4loy
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Seniors.PrOBldent, R. Conelly Vice President. O. Seibert Secretary, F. Wntson Treasurer, E. Ross
Sophomores. President, B. Maye (Continued on Page Four.)
ej htPKpupF rKBDcT OpuIpc 
MRTRVch RI eRTEAcI
Annual Kiltie Band Concert 
Held Lest Evening - 
at Alvin.
The Womens Program for Campus Week opened Thursday afternoon with Qualification monies and the Honorary Class made by Mortar Board and Alpha Cbl Alpha. The Senate Officers from AMs end Margaret Morrison matching-with- the- rbpreaentatl
Bowl. After the burial a newas forged on the Carnegie t___.tbat of the class of 1930. Ten women from Margaret Morrison were called by Mortar Board for tbeir scholastic ability and leader- In campus activities, and four were chosen by Atpba Chi Alpha the Journalistic honorary, for their work on Carnegie publications.
The Olrls Sweepstakes took place Friday morning with plenty of-'spills--and-'tkrllls*durtng the course of the race. The relay team composed of Ann McKee and Claire Ward, both dressed as Polly Tech, covered the course In record time. They represented the Woodlawn Dormitories. ' The volleyball'game between the Fteah- and the Sophomores was won 'by- the Freshma 30-26. At the time there was an archery tournament: -w|th,.two- ,girle .from ^ class of Margnret Morrison competing while one of the tennis courts was reserved for the use of the girls.
The Women's banquet was held : 6:30 In the Carnegie Inn with the Aluninl much : In evidence, Connors acted as toastmls- for the. occasion and Dean i made the welcoming .ad:
The n
Thoi
in called by Alpha Chi were Elizabeth McPadden.Koenig. Marjorie Shod-and: Miriam Margolls. ie called bv Mortar- Board were Elizabeth Burkbouae. Lucille Galmish. Adele Hahn. 'Jean Mather. Leah Milkman. JeanSpringer, jean Roy. Marjone snod- grass. Charlotte Wardale and Mildred Young.
tbe annual tianquet of the' Kilties Band held recently nt the- en Inn, East .Liberty. B. R..
lectrical Engineering Department., a member of Sigma Phi Epsilon id the Clef Club.Guy L. Starr, Carl E. Kumpf. id C. J. Janies were clected as- slant managers of the band. J.. Smiley was elected Librarian hlle J.. E. Chamberlain was losen the Secretary of the organization.Last night tbo annual Kiltie ind Concert LeI held at Ihe Al- n Theater. This concert is to tome an established custom at .Qarnogle. /
The program was featured by- Warren Kimball, solo dancer, who danced several tango numbers. The local KlwanlB'Quartet sang: daring the Intermission.The program is. as follows: March, "American Spirit".Esberger Overture,. "Golden Wand:........' ,
Selection' from' "Prince of Pll.Wltz,v"Wddtog of 1
Ludeif'Wfnas'....... Hall:jet.. Pryor KimballIntermezzo, "Aftei Intermission  Wt 
Klwanls Quartet ...Medley Overture, 'Superba"........................................ DnlboySelection from "Martha"... .Floto Waltz, Moonlight of the HudWlnnlpeg, ManitobaThe
editor of The Manitoba, Leonard L. Knott, has not abated..Falling In Its "attempt > to keep- the independent Manitoba Student, edited by. Knott; from ap-- pepringv on, tKe^iajnpus, by.: asklng- Wlnnlpeg advertisers not, to' use- cotumnB, the Manitoban 'staff' Joined with the coBQcll In at- iptlng to prevent~the new pub- - llcation'from receiving any 'new3- 
i tbe campue.  sA ' notice  forbidding anyone to - re news to other than the'Mani- .; ban staff-was. posted recently iti - St. John's Collefce, of the unlvef--: ty. . In spite;: of this prohibition;. ' te '^Manitoba  Student; published curate results of . the election of udent off leers of St. - John's. According to the>Stud,ent Union, the new publication does not exist,:- when lt;was mentioned In a debate, recently. ; the - judges ruled-. that such a-reference could not.be .. considered - in deciding the- issue. -  The Manitoban has refused^ to?  menllontheStudentln its.columna_v

---------------------------------------------------

' freahtoen'mu6t be continued. Coming from high school  where they -ver*'.dignified-seniors.* looked up
i they not quietly disciplined-into some form ot ,'nnlty and- brought to the college spirit, they would almost rule the university by their overbearing' manners.Bed and 
elty of GeorgiaYOU'
The Graduating Seniors
Are facing the question
of
"WHAT TO DO 
NEXT
5mc of you art util fixed; you have a family biuinsa to vwk with. It will be l<
s Strand :eptlonally 
fine program this week beginning WednesdayHite Blue in "Blttor Apples" supported by Myrna Loy. Friday ,nd Saturday Rubber tory of "Tin Can Tourists" n eicelleut cast Including Beasle ,ove. Harrison Ford, ond Junior 
Coglan. Monday
MANOR THEATER
inley - Davis Theater. William Boyd ai Fair famous 6tara of thi man" will hold tho t
ge number ot the alumpl jut tor the luncheon Satur
day at the Hotol Schenley. This luncheon, an annual Campus Week 
event, hot; become Increasingly popae feature-?eral interesting 
short speeches. Buddy Overendand Dr. Baker each made a short | V evening. May
Laboon Imparted In his |
probably
 Clarl
buauttu U> its employe.
Some of y ou hare a decided fall.
Wednesday and Thursday, la | for th Yankee Clipper." Monte fund, and Myrna Loy In "Bitter ; that B Apples. Friday. May 20th ana | at Cor Slide. Kelly. Slide" will be shown years.
1 Wednes- sidration has beei Ail those] Annual for this year.
_ North Jersey and Nei
speech M bmswbl about I *  urged lo .tend aa a Uv.the Athletic Council. - He stated | *7 time Js promised foMhoee prei
>1 gifts of about 915.000 hadKiUtttVcm Dur* i "i,vv* "o"- v,i '**h ", thni| girls end the girls their fellows, will be made to bring out tno Fmia-a Weof. ! Formal ^notification will be made delphla Clan as well as visitorsshortly but as it is almost Impos- from the other Clans to our meet-slble to keep an up-to-the-minute leg of May 21. You will receivemailing list those who are not notl-.further notices concerning this flod are to come apyway. ' meeting but In the meantime makeElections were held and the fol- your reservations.
lateness of the other .functions Intei
Married men are to bring j best to1 abandon th 
the Institution DuT-|ineir wfves; 6,nle n their best;tlon. However, special - - ' girls end the girls their fellows, j will bethe comli _ ie between Carnegie and W< Reserve will be a benefit game the purpose ot adding to the Mr. Laboon also disclosed ivldy has signed up to remain isgle Tech for the next lUree
issful reunion was 
held by the clone ot 1917 during Campus Week- Qver halt of the about seventy-five returned  
forty-five.
had a great lime 
the whole 'time, had luncheons t 
gether at the Orlll. a dinner at tl University Club on Saturday eve In;, and various other get-to-gethThe best meeting was held Saturday afternoon, afterincheon. where, by the,' class also made a fine I Tom Orr spoke and also , called upon one of his class matec Anthony Kerin of New York, t 
speak. At the meeting several mat tere were discussed. One of th points brought up was the posslbll hanging the dates of CamjNever a waver 
in the 
Edgeworth 
flavor
Corrosion
T
HIS- picture, taken in the salt marshes n^ar 
Kearny, N. J., shows two lines of 30-inch. Cast 
Iron Pipe replacing pipe made of other material.
The alternate exposure to the action of salt water 
nnd air is a severe test.
While the pipe shown in the picture is subjected to 
unusual corrosivc influences, all underground pipe 
must be able to withstand corrosion to a greater or 
less degree. Cast Iron Pipe; has this quality! It does 
not depend on its coating to resist ru6t; the material 
itself is rusb-resisting. The first Cast Iron Pipe ever 
laid is in service .today at Versailles, France, after 
two hundred and sixty years service.'
sof leIn Uu.r tayf t1C6aManH C1ufe1B Peoples Gas Btdg., Chicago
CAST IRON PIPE
Send for booklet, Out Iron Pipe for Industrie
e  STANLEY-DA
;STRAND
VIS-CLARKSMANOR
. i Wednesday and Thursday sl May 18 and 19'
Monte Blue Bitter Apples
Wednesday and Thursday May 18 and 19The Yankee Clipper
William Boya Elinor Fair
Friday and Saturday
Rubber Tires
Harrison Ford.
Bessie Love 
Junior Goghlan
FridayMonte Blue Bitter Apples
SaturdaySlide, Kelly, Slide
William Haines
Eddie Cantor Special Delivery
Monday and TuesdayConstance Talmadge
Venus of Venice\GET YOUR STUQENT TICKETS FREE AT TAftTAN OFFICE
STANLEY-DA VIS-CLARKS
is: First Floor andQCHENLEY^THEATER 
ONDave Harris RevueALL
STAGEFamous Vaudeville Star With Fast Stepping- CompanyWEEK
Oxfords Lorgnette's .
' REASONABLE PRICES 
/EFFICIENT SERVICE
"The Notorious I^dy," a photo- play.of love, adventure and intrigue starring Barbara Dedford, .Lewis Stone,' Ann Rprk, Carl Metcalfe, Francis McDonald, Grace ^Carlyle and E. J. Ralcliffe, Is liooked for aho.wiug ,at -the Stanlcy-Davls- Clark Grand the week beginning 
Monday; jMay-:16. The sensational film was produced .; by Sam T. Rork and directed by.KlngBaggolt, having been adapted to the screen by Jane Murfln from Sir Patrick Hastings' novel -The River." Tho exquisite photography .Is the result of the - camerqtlcs of .-Tony Gaudlo. "The Notorious Lady is
.(I.P.'i Ludents were glven te tp twenty-flv dol- oftheee also sen tenced to 30 days in jall, In th. Bet Cambridge Court on n chafge of "dlBturblng th peate, Presldent Lowell, ot th universiLy. went thelr ball at $60 each for thelr renppearance In th SUPerloi
were tried, after beln iveral days ano In coi :h a riot between ui
The Ph.OWhile recognizing  the service that the Ph.D. has rondered American education in placing It on - a more solid ground work of fact and accuracy, it is still consistent to maintain that-th^ standard Is altogether one-sided and too often productive of pedants rather than, scholars. It needs.'therefore, to-be supplemented by another standard.he two togcthe justice to that completeness which right teaching requires.Of course, such a statement does njusllce to those who enter upon
their graduate vork prepared. It by having acquired well-rouucuudedin thatr college days, are-less likely to 'dry up Intensive .specialization *h.D. requires; and when they come through the ordeal unscathed, .they are unquestionably ed to teach than they
which (
In a RTcat nnlvorslty t taujrht by profosaora and assistant professors, hut It la to be hoped that some-method may $e devls< by which graduate assistants c; learn to face their classes' with a surance and confidence.
i Judge of candidates
were before, graduates cai for the doctorate, far ... number of them appear t 
ants in the making.The Harvard Crimsoo.I need repairing? Take
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, MAY 18 AND 1?'
THE YANKEE CLIPPER
WILLIAM BOYD ELINOR FAIR ,
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, MAY 0 AND 2t............
SLIDE, KELLY, SLIDE
WILLIAM HAINES " SALLY O'NEIL
MONDAY AND TUESDAY, M^Y 29 AND 24
TAXI-TAXI
EDWARD EVERETT HORTON
COMEDY- NEWS NOVELTIES
__Plenty of Parking Space

---------------------------------------------------

.TUMP*V;--HAV 7.Mgy THt CAWWKllt TAWTAW
ATHLETIC COUNCIL 
MAK|ES AWARDS
- At a recent meeting ot the aib/letlc.cooDtli, letters were awarded 
-tothe rifle and swimming teams. 
/The' men who were, awarded let.. lere on .the varsity rifle team were: 
Aii M. Fisher. W. D. Campbell, C. 
it .Weatiierell, and W. D. Bronon. G. W. Fisher, by special 
^art. was given a letter UD M.DO 
8tderatlon of the fact that be. did 
good service to the team both last 
' year and this. His services were
t help to the t
. when his brother was disabled for 
some weeks. G. w) Fisher placed 
sixth both last season and tills, 
Just V point or less behind. Gfth 
man both times.
 W. R. Sweadner was awarded a letter for managing the varelty rifle: team, and also a letter for managing tbe plebe rifle team, >slnce no .plebe manager was available thJs year. At the same time he. fired on the varsity rifle teajn.
 'On the plebe rifle team the fol- lowing men get their..numerals: 
Tieo Kaseha'gen (captain); R. G. Martin, B. <9cott, Toni Llppert, and Stine. The'plebe> team did exceptionally well this year which is only the second year that a plebe rifle team has been in existence.
Varelty letters were awarded-to the following men on the swimming team for their good work this season:
-Follansbee, captain-elect;boetel, Von Ende, end ' Angus also received a let special award tor hi9 good ee Numerals'Were awarded to t lowing men oi^the plebe swi
Hori
leanEdwrds. Basleind Wray.
'In recognition of his services to tbe plebe basketball team, L. 9. Nielson was given his numerals by special award.Managers were also appointedt this ijuni
Fred Woods.
Wood and \ assistants. A. B.  Vier
: the plebe rifle team Weatherell and Dlltz
Lets All Go To The.TECH
Barber Shop
For Our Hair Cuts 
CRAIG- AND 
FOKBES
. LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
Dancing.CRAIG AND FORBES STS.
Beginners Monday and Frl-. day  Evenings. Advanced, Thursday: and' SaturdayEreBings. Private lessonsby appointment.layflo<r 7891
STUDENT SUPPLIES 
C. M. STAUFT
FORBES AND BOQUET STS. 
OAKLAND
Oakland 
Savings '& Trust 
i. Company
Member Federal 
eserve System
The Oakland Bank"
Capital - - - $300,000.00
Surplus-----$300,000.00
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK I
Another Campus Week la over. And after one more. Issue, we cab hock our trosty. typewriter asti start thinking about examsand hayhap qumm&r school.No fooling, though, eighth C. W. 
was a real festival, easily the best yet. Tbe athletic program was excellent, and was run off beautifully, In spite of tbe somewhfit Inclement weather. The sole post* pohement was the alumni tennis match, booked for Saturday afternoon, which was, called on account Of wet .courts: This was a big disappointment, particularly to tho alumni tennis players, ^ho were anslous to trim the varsity.Tbe track teams spent a rather profitable, week-end, tbe varsity coming back after Its defeat by ip Westminster, while
The Plebe-Soph baseball game on Thursday afternoon was one of the high lights of thd week. Doc Marks, fresh from his tr&iDiss camp experience with the Pirates, officiated as umpire, a Job which would have given a big league ump gray hair. Everyone present, flayers or spectators, enjoyed themselves Immensely, and started anew the argument to reinstato baseball as a varsity sport, in place of Lacrosse.Saul Melziner, soph catcher, was easily the most conspicuous man on either team. And before we 
forgeL it, the sophs won, 11 to 8.
The first "BJg Four track meet
will be held on Saturday at Morgantown. According to present plans, this meet will be an annual affair, the schools to take turns as host.The meet this year should be won by .Pitt, 1C dope is to he taken as any Indication. The vPanthens have defeated. In fact swamped, both Carnegie and West Virginia, and West Virginia baa defeated W.
do much to promote a mutual feeling on good 'will between the four competing schools.
Tyson 'Tiny'' Nlmick, husky varaity. weight' man, broke the school recofd in the 16-pound shotput In the dual meet with Geneva the. week before last, with a heave of 41 feet, 4% Inches. And in spite of his record breaking performance, he placed but third In the event, which was won 
by Hubbard, Geneva's great weight
The rormefeCarnegie record was 40 feet, inches, made byGeorge Ellerton, in 1919. This makes the fifth Carnegie record set up in a dual meet with Geneva.Nimick, the now record holder, 
is a senior in Electrical Engineering. Ho is a member of Phi Kappa Pst fraternity, and has been one of Coach Halferty's maldstays for several years. He will have a big chance to cover himself with glory on Saturday, in the Big Four meet, and bis many friends are pulling for him to win his favorite
TENNIS TEAMS 
CLOSE BUSY WEEK
Thelebe and '
Besides laboring under the added 
burden of Campus Week, they 
have each' played four games. In 
this, the Plebes outdid' tho Varsity 
for they won three of their four 
games while tbe Varsity only won
Monday. Maj
i Plebea .i Pitt Froah. 6 
Singles.Baker., Pitt, defeated Kambach,
6-9, 6-3.Kline. Tech. defeated Haddou, Pitt. 6-2, 2-6, 6-3.Hyatt. Pitt, defeated Wagner, 
Tecb. &-3I 6-4.Doubles.Baker and Arkle, defeated Bird 
and Wile, 6-1, 6-0.Haddon and Hyatt defeated Kambach and Klein. 8-6, 6-9.
Pleb-Wllklneburg High 2.
Tuesday! both teams rested but| hard at it again Wednesday
STUDENT BODY 
RATIFIES NEW 
CONSTITUTION
Many Important Changes 
Voted on. Including Equal 
Representation of Schools
BUDGET COMMITTEE 
TO BE SUB-DIVIDED
Mens, W. A. A. and Night 
School Lose Bepreaenta-' 
tion in Student Council.
(Continued From Last Week) 
Section 3. Duties of tbe Offl- rs_(tt) Tbo Pisetlniwhen )shall have power to call special meetings with tho authorization of Lhe Executive Committee, shall preside at all duly authorized general assemblies4of the entire student body, and shall perform other duties usually associated with thisshall 
and be responsible fer the ouncll,'
irthei all i
;anlze:the
aew Counting. He 
shall farther see that the first meeting of the new Council Is held with all- possible, dispatch.
(b) It shall be the duty of the Vice President to preside in the absence of. tbe President, and to keep closely Informed of tbe business of the Council as to preside efUclenlly when called upon. He shall also perform whatever other duties may be usual to the office, or especially assigned thereto.(c) The Treasurer shall handle 
all funds for the Council. He shall be required to give a report of the status - of every organization receiving allowance fromthe'Student Council budget,, when requested to do so by the President of the Council.; the
shall ha'and shal
MORt CORONAS ARE 
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE. 
OF PORTABLE 
Before the days of Cor
by hand../rltoriabies and see t Is the portable type- dard four?rew -keyboard/ wide carriage, twelve., orard ribbonmore blg; .machine features than "-'-?isle. .Price also7 have
.'combined. Cot th .latest model
writer. .Standarc
, inly. $&o!oo. ! aome bargalna In ueed Coro* nas as loy ae 26.00. STANDARD TYPEWRITER COMPANY
sign them to 'the various committees upon which they are to serve. Ho shall be bonded as the Student .^Council may demand expedient and shall receive a salary for his services the amount to be decided upon by the Council.(d) The Secretary shall be responsible for the files of the Student council, shall have charge of lite Assistant Secretaries, and shall assign them to the various committees upon which .thoy are- to 
serve. She shall keep the and shall handle all cor encc.  Site shall receive a salary 
for her services, the amount to-be decided by the Council.(e) The Executive Secretaries duties and powers shall be governed by a contract made with the Student Council. This contract shall bo renewed or changed each year as circumstances warrant by action of the outgoing Council of that year. 'Section 4. Committees.  (a) The work of the Student Council shall be carried on "by means, of various committees appointed by the President. These committees shall be Known as follows: Social Eyeuts Budget Committee; Musical Organizations Committee; Publications Committee; - Elections and Eligibility Committee; Financial Committee; Social Committee; Special -Committee; Plebe Regulations .Committee; Advisory Committee; Executive Committee.For membership and duties of committees, see By-Laws.Section 5. Meetings.  This Council shall hold weekly meetings. tiie time of .which Is to be set by the Executive Comtnittee. Special meetings are to be called by the Executive Cipmmlttee.Section 0. Qurum;A quorum shall consist of 15 voting members of the Council. :ARTICLE V;POWERS' OF THE .COUNCIL
Section l.-r'All. action taken by this'Council shall be considered as actions of Student Body, except as provided in Article Vili.Section. 2.It shall be the duty of the Council to publish notice of all. actions, affecting the. eutire student body ln-tlie-Collegc'paper Ira*
i 3.1ThiB Council shall
II. Recommend to the Adminis- atlon encb year the amount of ie activities roe. and to be re- lonsible for its distribution and
. Establish and perpetuate >ms and traditions.Supervise Freshmen Regula. Act on and decide all ques- s pertaining to the four col- 9 as a unit, which may nrise ie future, subject howevel to limitations of Article VIII.VII.bility for the upkeep of tbe Union
. To have a voice In estab- ; the charges made against mera! breakage fee for dam-':
afternoon. The Varsity Journeyed 
to W. and J. winning there in an easy manner to the tune of 7-0. Ferguson, the Presidents third man was tbe only player who offered tho Plaid team any opposition and was tbe. only Red and Black man who won a set..WllkJnsburg High entertained the Plebes who defeated them 4*8. Tbe victory was fairly simple for the Plebes though they were at ttmoa forced to extond themselves.Thursday marked the big tennis 
game of Campus Dame was the visitor and ns had been expected brought along a hard playing team. Despite the score 6-2 In favor of the Irish, the game was hard fought and closely con* tested at all times by lhe Scotch. Tecb made a good start by winning the first, two singles thus forcing Notre Dame to come from behind to win. This she did deBplte desperate opposition.The Plebes were more successful and defeated Shndysldo Academy 4-2. * Tbe matches were closely contested and very interesting: Tbe doubles were especially hardmght each going for threeOnits
by dofeatlng Bethany 7-0. Th,i Bethany aggregation were, utmbl* >to take a single set from tho Car negie netmen. Although all single matcheB were t^ken over in a comparatively easy manlier, the doubles were harder fought.The outstanding match or the afternoon waB in the second' doubles; Coffee and Glaser of Carnegie were forced to play twenty-six games In ordor to win their Bet from Johnson and Addy of BethThe Plebes kept up their good 
work by defeating Peabody High School 6-0. Peabddy offered little opposition.The Alumni game scheduled for Saturday afternoon had to he called off because of rain. This was quite a disappointment to many as an exciting match had been anticipated.This week games will be played >rty as j at home with Pitt, Bucknell, and a result of any class activities, and j Oberlln. The Pitt game wit] be in the event of disagreement be-1 played on tbe Tech courts as'Pitt 
tween the Student Council and tbe I at the present time Is without Business Office,' the matter shall' courts. The Plebos will. play re- be referred to the Advisory Com- turn matches with Pitt, Shadyslde, 
mittee of the Student Council.IX. Dcclde on questions of pline a%. submitted by tbe Fa Discipline Committee.
:ulty
the Institute Discipline Committee.XI. Control all non-athlotic functions of organizations in the Colleges.ARTICLE VI.BY-LAWS Section 1.(a) The Council may pass such by-laws as It deems necessary by a favorable vote of fifteen (16) Council members.(b) A proposed By-Law must be submitted liICll i
. the i
ARTICLE VII.INITIATIVE section 1.A petition signed by 
one hundred (100) enrolled students shall be sufficient to require the Council to take a vote on any matter desired within three school weeks from the time the petition is presented to the President. ARTCLE VIII.REFERENDUM Section 1.Any action taken by the Council 'shall be accepted by tho Student Body with the follow- Jog-exceptioni
Wilklnab.i chance of them playing a match with the newly organized W. and J. Plebe toara. Tho location has not been definitely settled.The scores follow:Carnegie 0Pitt 6.Singles.D. OLaughlln, Pitt, defeated Schmid, Cartaegic, 6-4. 6-0.Bauer, Pitt, defeated Glaser, Carnegie, 6-1, 6-2.J. O'Laughln, Pitt, defeated Hooper, Carnegie, 1-6, 6-2, 6-3.Bourne, Pitt, defeated , Caffee, Carnegie, 6-1, 6-2.
D. O'Laughlin and Lauel, Pitt, defeated Glaser and Carpenter, Carnegie, 2-6, 6-1, 6-3.
mid.legl, defeatedMoore, W. and J., 6-4, < Glaser, Carnegie, defeat W. and J.t 6-2, 6-2.Carpenter, Carnegie,  Ferguson, W. and J 11-9,
lake iti
petition signed by thi dred (300) students shall necessary for the Council to <sub-1 mit tho matter to a vote at the next er General Assembly. ' A majority vote of the students present will be necessary to reverse the action  of the Council. The restralniug
hun Caffee, Carnegie, defeated Maluy, u i W. and J., 6-0, 6-3.Hooper, Caraegle, defeated Bak- W. and J., 6-2, 6-1.
Schmid and Hooper, Carnegie
president within two school weeks from the time the student body receives notice ot the action of the Council.ARTICLE IX.RECALL Section 1.Action to recall tbe President or Vice President of the Student Council must begin with a petition signed by three hundred (300) enrolled students of the Inthis Council.ARTICLE X.AMENDMENTS Section 1.(a) This Constitution may be amended by a favorable vote of fifteen'(15) members of the Council, together with- a two- thirds vote of all students present
1 defeated Mooi
Kline, Tech, defeated Berghaue,Wllkineburg, 6-3, 9-7.Markle, Wllklnsburg, defeated*,
Bird, Tech. , 6-1. ! f TechnoIosyWagner, Tech, defeated Smith, | 01 TDn00sy* 
Wllklnsburg. 6-0, 6-1.
Plebea V-Shadyslde 2.
Singles.Kambach, Tech, 
O'Laughlin, Shadyslde, 4-6I, Shadyslde, defeated Kline, Tech, 6-2, 6-3.Arensbergh, Shadyslde, defeated Bird, Tech, 6-2, 1-6, 8-6. <Wagner, Tech, defeated Beckwith, Shadyslde. 6-3, 6-2.Doubles.
AS OTHERS 
SEE IT
THE HOPKINS REFORM 
(From the Yale Alumni Weekly) 
The football reforms which th 
president of Dartmouth has re 
contly proposed to an Interested 
and attentive public nave in thoi the outalanding merit that they put the college before the stadium and the real purpose of American higher i education before tbe de- mond for public college sports.As such thoy deserve more than passing notice and need to bo given thought. Whether In tholr anllrety they moet the whole sltuBut public acceptance of President Hopkins' proposals 'as theyi of leilngn<
have college s] i tho angle of wh :ol)ego itself as a
I than'will3 best. educeInstltuLli is well worth doing. ithis point of view the pro* posais for the removal of the' pro- <nal coach system, which has to make a very couslderable business of the preparation of college teams for contesta with each >ther, for double-header football, ine at -home and abroad with the ame opponent, and for tbe limita- ion of playing to the two middle ilasBes of a college are proposals which, if carrlcd out,' would in the :k out ail of th "professionalism' that Is In our college games and of the older eastern colleges. There are few that
cupled with various plans looking toward some such end.In company with lhe president of Dartmouth, what, we think a number of such institutions would like to see come about is the shifts Ing of tho interest and- hence th emphasis In our college sporls, from the public to tbe campus. This 1b the spirit of the English college sports, and its great merit is that it makes of athletic competition a legitimate part of the college educational system, as important to the participants and-as valuable as the claBsroom. This was the spirit of the older days sports, before 
>rlLhg editors of them, see tho day
the newspaper took chiWelt
Tech Plebes 6P . Singh> Kambach, Tech, defeated Klaus, Peabody, 6-1, 6-0.Kline, Tech, defeated Goodman, Poabody, 6-4, 10-8.Bird, Tech, defeated Frey, Pea* body, S-6, 6-3.Wagnor,. Tech, defeated Droida, Peabody, 6-2, 6-3.
Doubles.Bin and Wile defeated Klaus and Frpy, 6-4, 6-4.
Kline and Wagner, defeated Goodman and Drolda,*6-4, 6-4.
of refeimbly, <three-fourths
rote .of the studfent body i at -a general assembly.(b) A proposed amendment to this Constitution muBt be submitted In writing at a. regular meeting of this Council. It shall be read and tabled for' one week before being voted on by the Council. * .
ARTICLE XI.REVISION -Section 1.Revision of this Constitution may tie enacted by tho Student Council when deemed necessary by that body and shall be accepted by a favorable vote -of fifteen (16) members of the Council.together with a two-thirds vote of all the 6tudents present at a
ARTICLE XII.RATIFICATION 
y Section 1.  This Constitution shall be deemed ratified end so
Lane, 6-1, 6-3. j tin 
Igh 0.
Noi: Dame 6CarnegieSlngl.Schmid, Carnegie, defeated Mui phy, .Nolre^Danie, 4-6, 6-3, 6-1.Hooper. Carnegie, .defeated St< dell, Notre Dame, 6-1. 6-1.Lavares, Notre Dame, defeatc Glaser. Carnegie, 6-2, .8-6.Griffin, Notre Dame, defeated Caffee. Carnegie, 6.Markey, Notro Dame, defeated Carpenter, Carnegie, 6-.0, 6-1.
Stadell and ' Lavkres defeated
Single. ,
Schmid, Carnegie, defeated Ryan, Bethany, 6-1, 6-3.
, Hooper, Carnegie, defeated Kirby. Bethany. 6-1. 6-2.
Glaser, Carnegie, defeated Addy, Bethany,. 6-2. 6-1.. Lener, Carnegie, .defeated Cock- van. Belhanv. 8-6. 6-3.
Hooper and schmld. defeated Ryan and Kirby. 6-2. 7-5.
hospitable to any proposals'that will hasten It. Such a day would see, say at Yale, a. general parlicipallon in inter- lass and intercollege aports within alty going on all through nd of no IntereBt.to any- s|>t the participants. It id by
ffould :.nd thel
thre
the bnd of- such . season a quickly assi ersity team play t ther colleges, wliere dlUons existed to wlpictured at Yale. We d c, that 1s Impractical; we fldently expect 'some such tlona to .come one .of those da^6.Proposals such as Presiden Hopkins makes, regardless of tfreii details, are in linci with such ; situation and when enough mon luggcstlons, of the sort are ma'd< by equally respdfislble publli headers, something will be doue iboutlt. .
milar cowe In'
money as Ibe-.root of'all evil, so 
now it.is the ftshion .tb.tyam. ihe
vili f<
egree. . If .this continues, n within.' the .universities rce' upon' the graduate ' 6tu- certainly arid scholarship Of course the 6.cholarly side of 'the graduate work- is.now'stressed. But such must be the case. Unless man has gone through this mill . ie a gentue. he cannot know b subject. Apd there are not mai geulus.ee in this country. Writers like these attackers of. the Ph, want personality stressed'. . T Crimson' In. a 'recent editor! wanted the same thing. Yet never' suggested ' that ' scholarship should be forsworn for personality. The great question which faces the American university Is how it develop both In its graduate dents.TT^Tbc Editor of The Harvard
'Twenty Senior Commerclols, 
with Professor Follows. Mrs. Fol
lows. and Mr. and Mrs.1, Willard 
Watkins, 6f Pittsburgh, ^spent 
Tuesday. April 26. In East Liver
pool, Ohio,. and Newell, W. Va., 
visiting the plants of The R. 
Thomas & Sons Company (In tbe 
morning) and The Homer Laughlln 
China Company (in the afternoon), 
These plants represent the latest 
developments In the , manufacture 
of high-tension electric-insulators 
and fine chlnaware, respoctlvely. 
.Tho party wer luncheon guests 
of the Rotarlsn-Club and Chamber 
of Commerce. After lunch Mr, 
Follows gave a talk on what Is 
at Carnegie Institute 
ipecially in tho 
Department of Commercial Englaeerlng, In "Production and Distri
bution'- with the co-operation of 
30 Industries. There were about 
70 at the luncheon. Everyone 
.'present received a copy of the Ex
hibition Books." Iu both plants 
talks , were given. Messrs. Gould 
.and Sleemnn spoke in the morning 'and Dr. A. V. Blelnlnger. Chit ~ Chemist of the Homer Laughlln China Company, In the after Through ' the kIndneBS of Samuel Harden Church, the ainde in sPennsylvania RaitPrlnceton, N. J.After July 1, 1927, Princeton students will walk to classes, and If thore is any "heavy lovln* to do which must be accomplished on wheels, J' be done as the Princeton under* graduates of the early nineties did' itbehind tbe old gray maTe. Princeton has banned studont
The action was. taken by the Board of Trustees because of the many accidents to student cars, in which five students and two oth. ere havo met their death.Last year the university passed a nixing requiring students to obtain permission from their parents If they were to own or drive MM6nIB
year, declaroB:July- 1, 1927, no' under- is shall, whllo colloge ls> maintain or operate an lie within the borough of n or In the immediate hood thereof, without the of the president ot tho? the colV1MER SURVEYING
second semester, June C
registration will be limited to twen- iy-four students. The June course Is open to Btudents in chemical, :ommercial, mochanlcal and metallurgical engineering and to students In beating and ventilating
208 will also be given, as heretofore. during the two weeks lm- itely preceding tho-September, imlnatlons, August; 24 to Sop- tember 7. It; is felt, however, that number ot students- would prefer and lu eloctrlo equipment and con* ke the course at .the Juhe d instead of waiting until the end of the vacation season. Students wishing to take the >\irse in June should file the usual immer session' application blniik the Registrar's Office not later,
Ees&t a Fine Car 
In % Minutes
F you want a car in a hurry
1 whether you are known at our 
station or notwell have you on the 
road in about two minutes.
That's how easy it is to rent a car.
No red taperib annoying questions*.
You go where you likeand you're 
the driver.
Theres one big advantage in this 
serviceone that has made it tremen
dously popular with students every
where." Thats-th low cost of rent
ing a car. And you're welcome to the 
use of a cat; either for a few miles of 
driving, a trip of an hoUror two, a day, 
a week or a month, s 
The only requirement is that you 
be qualified and competent to drive a 
car. That is all.
Wq especially invite students to use 
our cars. Youll like the friendly spirit 
v herethe fine servicethe excep
tional economy.
Ride in Groups nd Split th Cost
: '.iTTioiiCONTROLLED DV YELLOW TRUCK Cr &OACH MFC. CO. SUBSIDIARY -C6N.BRAL MOTOR* ^CORPORATION
616 Webster Avenue 
Grant 5050
5612 Penn Avenue 
Montrose 5050
A
favorite 
on the campus
. . IN ANY group of regular fellows^ youll find 
Prince Albert. It belongs. It speaks the lan
guage. You get. what we meap the minute you 
tamp a load of this wonderful tobacco mto the 
bowl of your jimmy<pipe and make fire with 
a match.
Cool as a northeast bedroom.. Sweet .as a 
not from the Girl of Girls. . Fragrant, as a wood
land traill Prince Albert never bites your tongue 
or parches your throat, no matter hqw fast you. 
. feed iu Youll smoke pipe*load on pipe>load 
* with never a regret. 1 *
Buy a tidy red tin o P. A. today. Throw 
back the hinged lid and 'breathe deeply of. that 
..real tobacco aroma.'-.'Then '. . . tuclc a neat 
wad into the business-eod of your jimmy.pipe 
. and light up. Now'you have it  ,< that 
tastel~' Thats Prince Albert* Fellows!

---------------------------------------------------

XEf mt
PHONE MATFIOWBI 1Patllibcd ran wry ifwk ihuiag tike .DU-ndoatoi ( lNiCJ UTtcfesolosr. EaUrattatk*
'EDITORIAL STAFF 
Editor-In-Chief ...^Merrill Holllnshead .' Managing Editor..1. .............................Sam' WallNews Editar.....Francis KolbAthletic.Editor,..v.'...............Frederick D. Woods
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
- EHenor Talltnadge  Robert M. PewRussell Bollinger .  Harold JacobsonRalph Hltclffcock Berta Grlfflss'A .El' Fisher Eugene ScanlonW. Bernard .
JUNIOR EDITORS Meredith Stomp ' Milton CohenFeuton Finn Jean Boy,ALUMNI EDITORS Margaret Russell Herbert1 Grsa
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin ' Helen ReedJosephine Clark. John Schneider 
 REPORTBRS Stewart Ralston Bob Yonng Clyde Park  Joseph G. Ritter. Miriam Margolls W. Henderson Harry Wldom Henry Bunker Catharine Boyd Cyril LetzeUer Ruib Bramson Sid. Warner W. H. Worland Eugene Jarema Paul Droste William McNeil Helen Whltebill TV W. Hay Katharine O'Donnell Thomas Llppert
Circulation. Manager........;.................B. SnpowitaAdvertising Manager..................Shelby McMUllon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS JameB SeibeVt T. R. Zenk : R. Noble
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L, Sacks G. W. BrahmstH. Kandell. Teplitz. MarshallB. Wedner C. E. Blass M. Malinick
E. I>. MENCKEN VISITS
in the depths and theRELATIONSHIP 
AGRICULTURE 
VS. INDUSTRY
ard this championshipresearch and li
THE PITTSBURGH DISTRICT jS'uSaSm'twS
unlovely towns of thew bo found In the United mposlng New England
lereland county i
By H. L.. MENCKEN
9 5a?0 Brooklyn, Chicago and Pittsburgh, and have
Stimulus Given to Industry 
by the Low Prices of 
Farm Products
Camden, N- J-, and a Pullman,- 1 have whirled through the gloomy. God-forsaken villages of Iowa-and- Kansas, and the malarious tlde-water hamlets of .Georgia. 1 bftye' been to'Bridgeport, ;Conn.> and to.Thomas, W. Va7 '
anytbtni ilong the road from the Pittsburgh yard!that huddle alont
t of Pittsburgh fay train,
tbe Pennsylvania Rail- D Greebsburg. They
 the making of
s of Westmoreland ' ci fami- them. They show grotesqueiies of ugliness that
1 Amer- M -hlngs, i
whole aspiration of i
) dreadfully hideous, that it reduced tbe sort of Joke. .Here i, almost beyond imanan habitations so
b. One expects steel
was.not one'lnsslght that dld'not Send the Some -were' so fiad, and they -were among the pretentious- -churches, stores, warehouses, and
Are they so- frightful because tbs valle] jrelgoersdull,-Insensate brutes, with' ibeauty in them? 
they came from? You
i why didn't these foreigners
ind. There is scarcly
graceful and charmi Spain. But In the J
The peasants, howselon. It sssms Incredible that
blinked before them a
I recall a few
s of Berlin had beet ) matching designs.
They look dellbei
i libido for the beautiful. It Is Impossible
/ lltlle church just vdown the wall paper that defac
where farther down tbe linti positive pleasuidesigns, It must-be apparent, glv e to a certain type of;mind. The unfathomable way, Us obscure
' poetry of Edgar A- <
 them Is the taste I lolofiy and tioda fountain drinks, dogi
ledly withoutmat me vast majority or ine people of uncomely, despite tbe land, and especially. the 100' per cent......'ly admlr9v'the houses*: they 'lh-ie money they could' get vastly . ... ... sy prefer what they have not.Certainly there waa
i form, a narrow
perfected a chale
rly very bouse, big and little,-hi sides. Obviously It there were a nse in the region thi . to bug the hlltslde- 3t; to throw, off the heavy wl
better i Certain! of Foreign . Warsdifiewinthe]
r built a better one of thel
1 lug, wider than it was tall. But what have they dn
the hillsidea chalet with that Incredltlble claphoihe heavy winter and having chosen' It, they let It mellow . id clinging build- present dingy depravity. In the i
; pitched rof. And the whole, they hailapboards. with a narthin, preposterous brick pleind what could be the hundreds . of . thousands
-house, painted a Etaring'-y^UcW, _HewJs:so^tbing tte-psychoioglsts have ilttferto tfie love of ugliness for its own sake, the ike the world Intolerable. It shows Itself < wowsers; . they pollc
neglected(fie lov of ugUi lost to make the world ' brilliantly in the whole
On their deep sides the;. not-because the fine arts i
i fifth of them t
the Qn<- but because beauty itself li ........................ .....better the picture the greater their delight In turnIcnlar. ' They-lean this way. and.,that, hangingprecariously. (And osie and all they are lower ' level:
the wall. The nobler the book the.v-_ *. .. .... i tbe Poit _
pliner and moi
charms them to .haithe Polizei. -On----- ,liurierrd- Pennsylvania-; steel
Now and the;therefcof brick. But what adjacent hills are full of black stumps. But when i the color of a fried town burns down its people do not thank God i'  ' Instead they bear their grief 
shocking color? No
STH CARNEGIE
CAMPUS WEEK
V BXUQ I1MMfII3
(Continued From Page One) 
elaborate and well-planned setting. 
At least, It was far more effective 
than tbe previous rather maudlin 
attempts at decorations. The Gym 
floor had Its annual sandy texture, 
but aside from that everything .was 
lovely (not Including the weather).Came Friday morning and the sweepstakes, where Imagination and muscle strain for the glories. The.heatB were regularly
and> the tune ot .several wrecks,. couple of disqualifications, resonant appeals from our o' cop on .what used. to!to.e.horses stand -back! It misunderstood, that several attractive offers- were made by representatives of large glue -.factories. .ThetMardl Gras Friday .night .was. the .scene . of ..color-and; mad dancing (the only^kind .possible), Costumes included Arts Ball,make- . overp from several years back,-andSome contained
baskets of material, while others had Just enough to get away with Ifand some didn't. The music tnrhlsed In the Union by the Virginia Ramblers and in- the Gym- nasiuln by the Collegiate Imps was
Sweep- rallaniaway , by Kappa Sigma, with almost record breaking time. Thanks to a rainy afternoon, the' Country fair progressed admirably In the shelter of the Gym, where varied stunts to please .the rather Jaded (by that time) taste of .the public Were offered right and left Kappa Sigma carried away another cap from .this event, lor producing the best, stunt.And Saturday night! The Campus Week Show filled the Nixon with applause and not afllttle .wonderment as to .what ..jt^was jail 
about. However, you' might read about it elsewhere In. this .Issue To conclude: It was 11 mighty fine, thanks to Don Dal'u-and'his co-operating cohorts. -May :lt beyear.the iek and R
RAINCOATS FOR MEM AND WOMEN
Men a, $6.00Color: Grey.
Womens, $6,50Color's: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
redAufhammer and Evans
6100 PENN AVINXfE "
ELECTIONS FOR
NEXT YEAR ARE
FINALLY MADE
(Continued prom Page One.) 
Vice President, Frew Secretary, Wilkins *
' Treasurer Anderson
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES 
Seniors.President, F. Woods 
Vice President. W. Wlmer Secretary, J. Dean _ Treasurer, G. Davis
S^ii!ry:'JK*lffeBelotts . Treasurer. W. T.nn.iG Sophombree President, J. shweU 
Vice President, J. Bond Secretary. W. Henderson -Treasurer, O. Becker
COLLEGE OF .FI NE ART
Secretary, RuthAston
President, P. Droste Vice President. Margaret Minor Secretary. Blanche Brgy
MODERN LIBRARY
When that fat old apothecary .In 
Grlmslad took as bis apprentice a 
certain extraordinary silent, dis
mal boy called Henrik Ibsen, It Is 
probable that the worthy jan en
tertained some'faint misgivings as 
to the wisdom of tho procedure; 
or If not at that time, he must 
later, at least, have come to doubt 
whether his gloomy helper ever 
would amount [to- anything. No 
pride in hl6 work! No enthusiasm! 
No finesse in grinding gastropoda
way and tbe wrong way ol washing bottles, or of counting change, 
or of leading a customer ou to 
spend his money!
So, too, when1 the boy grew older 
and entered medical school, his 
fellow-studeuts were probably In
clined to douljt [hie. promise; and 
when be left medical school and 
began besieging eottors, and. .later 
society, there ,auist still have been people who believed that this squat little fellow with tho grim lips and tbe laggard tongue wi rather a doubtfiil sort, of person i be thinking, hlriself a.genius.Perhaps that was one reason 
Ibsen kept that asp in a cage his desk; be certainly did not look like a genius, nor act like one, many people thought, write
Au economist In the Departin' 
Agriculture has been ci .Investigation In recordsting
}atlohshlp which exlBts between gTiculturat prosperity and Indus- rlal prosperity. The conclusions 
yhlch he has reached are Interest- ng, In that they are contrary to the general' belief which many of illUclans have expressed. The belief set forth by many of ble statesmen Is that It Is. impossible to have any degree of iperlty when there Is a depression-ln.*agrlulture. The conclusion of the report of ie Investigation reads: Actuhl-ices do not support the common belief that Industry cannot be pros- is unless agriculture Is also erous, but show on the con- that business In manufaclqr- ictivltles has at limes been profitable, in periods of low agricultural prices.Statistics gathered show that rel- itlvely low ogTlcqltural prices have p tbe past been accompanied by Industrial expansion or by continued Industrial prosperity. On the ther hand the investigation rought out tbe point that blgh .grlcultural prlceB have been un- avorable signs for continued prosperity. The high prices of agrl- ulturat products show that. there s a shortage-of raw materials and oodstufts,. and this is a serious fac- or which Is often not sufficiently :onsldered as a. direct cause of
Several examples may be given >f tbe stimulus given to industry jy the low prices of agricultural products. The large crop of coton and the resulting low price has >een one of the .mogt .Important factors In the recent -stimulation of ie activity In the cotton manufac- jrlng industry- The large crops hlch have been raised In the West have brought more business to the railways. All of tho consumers of the products of agriculture, which Includes the whole population, have more purchasing power released for the consumption of pro- luets of other. Industries. It appears that .more Industries ar* rb^ieflted by.'theirld^^rjc^s^.fann products than<are-hanf bit by these low prfcos.The chief reasoiTwhf it Is posai
ls .the changing dUtributli population of the country. Whereas eighty, per cent of the people of this countcy .were  dependent on ilngfor a livlng : a . hundred s ago, at the present time 911 Is not more than thirty per of the population directly dependent on agriculture.This country has been gradually changing from a nation chiefly engaged in agricultural activities to of the most Important,manufacturing nations of the world. As a iult the farmer's place Is gradually becoming considerably leas Important. It is foolish to say that the hard times experienced by tho farmer do dot have any effect "on the prosperity of the country over a long period of time, but the fact remaihis that the farmer is the one who* will alwayd suffer most, and that tbe rest of the population may at times, actually benefit by his losses.
BARTOW GRIFFIS.
lanlm
but we ere not risking anything li doing It: a sufficient number of people have approved of him before us to-make It perfectly safe Yet if we had lived when "Gho6ts" and The Dolls Housol,-were first produced we should very probably have branded them along with the rest of. the'.nummals as pernicious
ted,
formalices of "The Seven Sweet Sisters of Sklen, even as today wc prefer No, No, Nanette," 'or Kopro-la-la" to "The Great God Brown,V or "Parla," or The Pow. ere of Darkness.But inertia, even In the human Intellect, can be overcome, and we are'almost as willing today to.-Tlsh 60 cents on a .. performance* oi John Gabriel Borkman" as we are to Invest $4.96 In tbe 'Scan- or the Cocoanuts. This is, Indeed, fame, and Ibsen Is 1 -atulated.
-ME.HT.ADDRESS
a member of the faculty at Union ,Theological Semini
be'held for this years graduating, class on Sunday night, June 5, in'..........  ' iail
Ada, Ohio.(l.P.)When a hidspeaker located thi 
claimed it as a souvenlor. admitting that be had had e. bad reputation for such pranks when he was a .student at .Obio Northern .UniOf couree we are ant to think 
him heavy and. depressing, and to 
make-slighting, remarks about the 
exaggerated elaboration of - the 
frontal area of bis skull, and to 
express Incredulous, surprise wbeu 
Herr Wiegand tells RRI th<it Ibsen wrote comedy, comedy of the purest sort; bnt, on the whole, we do 
him,It does
SO <> it-omeone who will 
abet ue- In our exhibition of provai, 91.60, not 'including the tax. the expense of troneportaUi and an orgy of tea and crackers, r, possibly, of Llederkranz orfd oysters afterwards.
Yet In spite of the fact that
bomi IbseiUltB
ON POPULARIZING 
THE NEW SCIENCE
In the course of his Sililmxin 
memorial lectures at Yale Professor Gilbert ,N. Lewis sold: '*1claim that my eye touches a etai as truly as my fifiger touches thle table." Space Is curved, conclude Minkowski. We are not only soi
according t
but the Einstein 
fourth d;mensl< 
and nqrgy reach us not
posed, but In little packagesPro- feaBor Planck's quanta. Time may possibly come In Jerks. Our conception of what constitutes now ought to have died in 1667,
that It. takes time for-,J|ght travel; for it Is not the event 1 
the seeing of It Physicists maket distinction befrom our passion Cor doing th< correct thing as from any real pet ception of his worth, we are no .insensible of tbe true greatness of the man. We can (eel something of the mighty force of The W< riors at Helgelafld."pr tbe stork pathos of Brand. or the epic In: tensity ol 'Peer Gynt," although since they are seldom performed
them; and when we fotlow th. careers of the heroic Stockmann in "An Enemy of the People, of Rebecca In Rosmersbolm," and, especially, of those grieateBt cbnrac*' ters of allMrs. Alvlng, Nora, and Hedda Gabler. we display no hesitation whatever In pronouncing their creator a remarkable realist, a stirring preacher, end a great poet, uncompromising In his stern denunciation of sham and tbe mouthings ot conventional moralists. uncompromising in his dissection of hearts that appear sound but are Inwardly rotten, uncompromising stUl.in hie calm probing .Into motives which. outwardly seem unquestionable, bnt. laid bare, are revealed In tbelr true baseness or selfishness or trivlaH- ty~forever .uncompromising, we rsnks with
lurpoiTimekolion-plcture film. Mattel Is no longer regarded as indestruc 
tlble in the old chemical sense, question mai, placed bethoBEfewlire, who. not satisfied .with m repetition of windy platitudes the creation of amusing plots, fusing to be besten by'the disillusionment and cynicism resulting from their ability to see things clear and whole, cho9e truth for their sole mnitor and their supreme .ideal. - Our .-perception ol this is, 'perhaps, saperflcldl and-Inv perfect, but so must be any realization of the greatness ot an artist; for-perception is always condltlonHONORARIE6 CALLCAMPUS LEADERSAT QUALIFICATIONS
(Continued From Page one.) William Lockard, and Harold James.Druids, sophomore honorary for 
ion, called Bower Maze, Joseph erbet, 'William Tussey. Harrison is, Julian Bond,Philip Hubbard, Thoi iy Warner, James im Kennedy, Williei Brown,
engineering rank Fingles, W. Staudt, hur Weibel, ge Campbell,
honorary, called Howard Ba Walter Pcacsou, Caleb Hornbost Roderick Jones. TJiure Llero Mortar Board, senior honors for women, called Elizabeth Bu 
house, Lucille Galmlsh. Adele Hahn, Jean Matber. Leah Milk
men. called Cyril. LetzeUer. Rlch- ml Bronson, Howard Hafpster, Harvey White, Raymond Bukley, David 'Wllsou,. Joseph Wilson, Jo-, seph Schmidt, Ted ' Zenk, Ralph Hitchcock, John StAuffer, Thomas
atlon ol
energy, the Gibraltar of physics. 
Force, still the basis of dynamics to tbe engineer," ceases to exist. Tbe ' distinction ' between tnatter 
and energy disappears.
. Hero we have a rew of the mor< startling and apparently insane .deductions of recent matbemetica physlcs-rdeductions. that now con 
^stltute the very warp and woof o: science. The more we rely oi "common sense"  meaning oui ears and eyesthe worse oil w< are. If we were governed mere)] by external Impressions, we wouW still believe that the moon is lor* ger than the Bun And that the earth Is the  centre of the solai system. Although. we no longei burn unorthodox scientists at th< stake, we begin to understand th< 
intolerance that embittered the lives of Copernicus and Galileo. We need, as much as did the Middle Ages, a new attitude of mind. The few experiments that prove 
the . validity of the new.-.theories of space, time and energy help us not; for they are as abstruse as the theories themselves. How c&i any experiment prove to thos who dwell in tbe outer unmathf matlcal darkness that Euclldlai goumetry ie not an actual piclut of space but merely a single, highly 
refined abstn and that it i 
convenience
of science. The older views of electricity ant chemistry could be explained t< .large audiences by conducting ox perlments on tbe lecture platforn or describing them graphically li print. A good expositor of the ok Bclence bad something of the ahow man in him, He.made the utmos dramatic effect of daszliog arci and smoky explosions. These the ^trical tricks help us not at all li making Elneteln, Planck and Boh intelligible to the multitude. Th< reasoning on which ihelr theorle Is based Is mathematical, and math ematlcs is a language in itseir.In his Hailey Stewart lectures now published under  tbe title Science and Human Progress, Sir Oliver Lodge makes the point that tbe scientific outlook of today owes more to tbe Imagination than to experience. Oui- conceptl
ARTS PLAYS
A REVIEW
'MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING
After all Is said and tone/yoo. :ant heat good old Shakespeare. We dont - say so because- everybody else does, but because we bellove it'is true, especially in view of the plays that have been prw- t the Little Theater this None or the modem een hero tbls year an in dramatic interest and understanding of human life wili the Shakespeare piece. '
Although Much Ado About otblng Is not the greatest.of Shakespeare's comedies, It . hu 
unrivaled. ' We refer particularly to. the garden cene in which Don Pedro, Claudio .nd Antonio, gossip about Benedick and Beatrice loud enough to bis hoard by the yonng lover hidden In the arbor, and to the wedding scene in which Clauolo accuses his bride of unfaithfulness. Nor fa It 
easy to find a more exsiting climax than the engagement, of ]
ispliacyand Beatrice and tbelr to avenge Hero.
We extend congratulations to Mr. Payne ,and his stall'for the ex* cellent production given the piece. It was gratifying to see Elizabethan technique so effectively 
used. Too often period plays are overbearingly undone.
We do irot mean to belittle the individual members of tbe cast by putting them all'in a bunch and saying that each one did his part well. But we hacve.six term papas and two notebooks due to a week from today, and this is no time to be thinking up all tiie well deserved comments we would like 
to pay. Our mind Is at present dissolved in a' comparison of l.r nellle and Racine, which Is a far cry from Shakespeare as presented at Tech Theater.
We therefore apologize and promise'.1n undivided,, attention at the next play we cover.Kip. .
(Continued From Page One) length. Tho article winning flret prize will be published in Tbe Nation. The Nation may accept others for publication, reserving the right to cnt the. manuscript ot - ony artlola- printed. ' Wlbnere'.wUI' be announced and prizes awarded not later than January, 1928,
Freemont, Neb.(I.P.)For the first time ic the history of the Institution, a co-ed le .president ot the Student Council ot Midland College. Miss Pauline Prestpgapn) became head of the 325 students when Lloyd Klstler, president of
laterlalis now dependent on the mind. In this circumstance our future Tyndall .may perhaps find the correct method of approach In addressing the unsclhaps science will b^ the Too often has it been accused of * concerning itsel.' with the:materlaL Now that lt Is more than over .dependent on a mental attitndo for its further progress its true spirt
i New York Timea
Get work that you can respect, 
where they respect you.
Technical Industry welcomes/ the men from 
professional schools; believes in the value of 
their training; expects much of them, but no 
more than they must expect of themselves.
Some day-you will come backwith every 
reason to be proud of yourself, we hope.
TH E TIM'KEN ROLLER BEARING CO*t canton, ohio
Sales engineering is broadening work, well rewarded. 
As an expert in your own.ji.ne you come into intimate 
touch with the technical problems in many other line 
Applications are.iDvited from men ambitious to employ 
.. their , professional /.training in the industrial-sales - field.
