CITES12:20 WEDNESDAY 
PLEBES12:20 THURSDAY 
RALLY4:20 FRIDAY
ALL OUT 
FOOTBALL DANCE 
SATURDAY
VOL. XIX No. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMy^.R 24, 1924
R.O.T.C. ENROLL
MENT NEARING 
NEEDED QUOTA
Less Than Fifty More Fresh
men Can Still Gain Admit
tanceRegistration Closes 
Saturday
NEW CREDITS GIVEN
The R. O. T. C. requires about fifty 
men more in order to form three com
panies of full war strength. Fresh
men have until Saturday, the 27th to 
decide whether they wish to take R. 
O. T. C. or not. After that date the 
freshmen enrollment ceases. Men 
who enroll now may, if they wish 
sever their connection with the R. O. 
T. C. at the end of the scholastic 
year. If they do not join now they 
can never enter the R. O. T. C. New 
members of other classes may receive 
credit for previous military training 
upon application to the Military De
partment and thereby obtain advanced 
standing in the R. O. T. C.
This year the sophomores are en
joying for the first time the privilege 
of electing R. .0. T. C. in place of a 
nine-unit course; the course depend
ing on their department, in addition 
to the six units of physical training 
which has always been a substitute.
' Freshmen have the same electives 
that were instituted last year: R. O.
T. C. or physical training and two 
shops. Architects are for the first 
time given a choice of R. O. T. C. or 
various other subjects of an equal 
number of. units throughout the four 
years.
The courses this year are in gen
eral similar to those of past years 
only three hours attendance and a 
varying number of preparation-hours 
being.required. Freshmen have one 
hour of drill- on Thursday and one on 
Friday until Thanksgiving when 
class room work begins. This lasts 
until about Easter when the two drill 
hours are resumed. This year the 
third hour is taken up by rifle and 
pistol marksmanship in the Margaret 
Morrison shooting gallery. Military 
History will be taught this third hour 
duulng the second, semeste*.
Mr. Orbin expects shortly to begin 
the work of rebuilding the rifle gal
lery. The usual inter-collegiate and 
inter-R. O. T. C. matches will be held. 
Silver cups similar to those won last 
year by Jarema will be given the best 
marksmen. Other interesting R. 0. 
T. C. activities will be pistol instruc
tion under the supervision of Capt. 
Sherrill, and fencing with Lieut; 
Hemenway as instructor.
The summer camps were most sue(Continued on Page Two)
.FACULTY IS^SS,,,^PEP RALLY IN
And now we are to have classes 
in cheer leading! Are you interest
ed? Do you want to try out? 
Then watch the bulletin boards, find 
out the time and place of the class
es, then come join the noisy com
petition. Freshmen, Sophomores, 
Juniors, Seniors, you all have a 
chance; there is room for lots of 
talent In the organization of our 
school, cheer leading has an im- j 
portant place and you loyal sons of; 
Skibo must respond to this appeal.! 
Come out.
SUBJECTED TO for safekeeping at the Cashier's of
MANY CHANGES
Students can now deposit funds ; g q f J ]3 ^ Y
FOUR-TWENTY
Organization of New Depart
ments and Increase in Var
ious Staffs Cause of Many 
Appointments
MANY ADDITIONS TO 
CARNEGIE CAMPUS
Women's Dining Room, Tun
nel and Cement Walks 
Most Important
First Football Dance 
Scheduled For Sat.
Registration Cards Essential 
For Admission
Football dances will be held this 
year as usual for the benefit of the 
Carnegie Tech Athletic Association 
on most, of the Saturday nights of the 
football games. All the dates, have 
not yet been arranged but it is cer
tain that the first will be held in the 
Union on the Saturday night of Sep
tember 27. The orchestra has not 
yet been arranged for but it is prob
able that the Collegiate Imps will be 
the selection.
The price, as usual, will be $1.25, 
which will be as reasonable as can 
he found in the city. There is one 
rule which will be strictly enforced 
this year wThich has been rather lax 
in the past. That is the rule in re
gard to registration cards. These 
dances are for Carnegie Tech stu
dents only, and no outsiders are want
ed nor will they be admitted. To this 
end, one of every couple at the dance 
will be required to show a registra
tion card. Students are asked to co
operate in keeping the dances strict
ly private by refraining from lending 
their registration cards to outsiders,
HATCHET BURIED WITH 
IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY
While we have been away on our 
summer vacations a great; many 
changes have been taking place on 
the campus. The new gym has been 
completed; the new dining room is 
almost completed; changes have 
been made everywhere. But of all 
these changes there are two -which 
stand out above the others. Theseare the new dining room for women 
and the steani tunnel. Credit for the 
new dining room must be given to 
Mr. Orbin. He has worked day and 
night to get it finished. In doing this 
he has transformed the old inefficient 
gym into a splendid place to eat.
' On the steam tunnel Colonel Fair
ley has been working equally hard. 
It is very little realized, but never
theless true, that this tunnel is one 
of the most important improvements 
which have been placed on our cam
pus in years. It was built at a cost 
of approximately ?75,000. It is 6 feet 
wide, 8 feet high, and extends from 
Machinery Hall to the mens dormi
tories. It is so large that in addi
tion to all the equipment which it 
carries a man can easily walk 
through standing erect. Heat for 
eveiy building on the campus, includ
ing all of the girls dormitories ex
cept Forbes Hall, is supplied through 
this tunnel.
At the present time the equipment 
carried consists of one six-inch and 
two twelve-inch steam pipes, a return 
pipe for used steam, and all of the 
electric cables. The olectric cables 
are suspended overhead on porcelain 
rollers. These rollers are hung from 
hooks in such a manner that they 
may be removed in a few minutes if 
it is necessary to repair a cable. The 
steam pipes are to be covered with 
a heat insulating material which will 
help to keep the tunnel cool. Under 
the steam lines rollers have been 
placed and every three hundred feet 
there is an expansion joint. These 
two factors prevent the pipe from 
buckling with extremes of tempera
ture. From the main tunnel branches 
run to the various buildings. The en
tire system is well lighted and well 
ventilated. With this system it will 
now be able to locate and eliminate 
trouble in a very short time.
Adequate provision has been made 
(Continued on Page Four.)
PROFS. MEN OF REPUTE
Although a number of appoint
ments have been made to increase 
departmental staffs and to organize 
new departments, the faculty changes 
for the coming year are compara
tively few. Replacements of instructorships and other minor posi
tions in the faculty staffs of the va
rious colleges apparently constitute 
the majority of the new appoint
ments.
The most important appointments 
are considered to be in the newlyorganized Bureau of Metallurgical 
Research, which will undertake to 
| apply recent discoveries in physics 
and chemistry to metallurgical pro
blems. As acting director of this 
new department, Dr. S. Baker has 
engaged Dr. Francis M. Walters, Jr., 
who .was formerly connected with 
the United States Bureau of Stand
ards in Washington as Associate 
Physicist. Dr. Walters will also 
have the title as Professor of Exper
imental Physics. As assistants in 
the new' research bu,reau, the au
thorities at the Institute have named 
Dr. Y. N. Krivobok, a practical met
allurgist, who received his doctor 
of science degree last June at Har
vard; James B. Friauf, a former in
structor in physics at California In
stitute of Technology, who will spe
cialize in X-ray experiments, and 
David Jack, a former instructor at 
the University of Edinburgh, Scot
land, who will be assistant professor 
of mathematics in addition to his 
servico as an assistant in the bu
reau.
Another important appointment is 
that of Dr. Bartow Griffess, fo'rmerl 
Assistant Professor of Economics1 at 
tho University of South, Dakota, who 
has taken charge as Acting Head of 
the Department of Industrial Ecofice. Remittances in the form of a 
bank draft, post office money order, 
or express money order will bo 
cashed at once.. Personal checks
will be put through for collection.! ---------------
Students desiring to open checking lot in n- ^ r>
accounts can do so at a bonk In the;51*001 Pep-Captains to Revicinity of the Campus. A card ofj 
introduction will bo furnished by tho |
Dean of Men. This service Is offered j 
purely for the services of the stu
dents and not as a banking institu- j 
tion.
organize CitesPlebes to 
Hold Practice Rally Thurs
day Noon
NEW PLEBE RULES
PLEBES MUST ATTEND
Cl IDDHDT Everyone out for the Pep Rally. KCUlI V L/ OUl 1 UK 1 The old familiar call is again sounded.
____________ 1 We have a big year before us, a hard
I football schedule; the team noeds Upperclassmen Heartily En- support, and the team must got it.
Next Friday at 4:20 P. M. tho firstdorse Spirit and Purpose 
of Orders
ADVENTURE GALORE! JOIN 
THE TARTAN STAFF AT ONCE
The Tartan noeds reportors. Re
cruits from every class and every 
college of Carnegie will be cordially 
welcomed at Tho Tartan office, Room 
G-A on tho lower corridor of the 
College of Industries. If you think 
this activity deserves your support 
come out and get a job. Youll find 
it. interesting work and somo day 
you may value the experience. Now 
is tho time for Undorclassmen, es
pecially to get their start; but tliero 
is plenty of work for men and woon of tho upper classes, too.
NEW MEN WANTED 
BY MUSICAL CLUBS
COACHES bUILD 
NEW TEAMS IN 
TRAINING CAMP
Loss of Veterans and Hard 
Schedule Impose Difficult 
Task on Football Mentors 
 Regulars Form Nucleus
PLEBES LOOK GOOD
Carnegie started the ball rolling
____________ with the opening of football camp on
I Labor Day. The majority of the can* Students Interested in Glee or I didates reported then and the re
mainder a few days later. A lightMandolin Clubs Should 
Report Sundayrally of tho year is scheduled. Mem
bers of the band will assemble in 
front of the Central Building to march'
---------------' ! to the bowl. Every Carnegie student
Upperclass officers, representa- should fall in back of that band, gotives of student opinion in tho four ing down to the field, giving tho team 
colleges, heartily approve tho now:-tho knowledge and the feeling that 
Freshman rules requiring Plebes to we are all with them to the finish, 
speak to all Upperclassmen and fel-j A1 Minetti, our new cheer loader, will 
low classmen of their own sex and! be on hand and promises plenty of 
to wear identification badges the activity.
first month on tho Campus and the! As a preliminary to this rally, the 
first week of the new semester. Thei piebes will bo given an opportunity to 
ruling of the Stndorit Council that learn the Carnegie yells and songs, 
all Plebes must hppear ror cheoringl Thursday noon at 12:20 has boon set 
practice at tho rallies in front of! naltle for this occasion. Plebos are 
the Hut Library on Thursdays at required under Freshman Regula12:20 is also warmly supported byhjon8 to attend both these rallies and
tho undergrade "'ho aro ono in do-j lt js probnblo that tho Sophs will exdaring that thej will see it rig-J erciso their authority by inflicting 
idly enforced. j punishment on all who fail to show
The identification "badges, which up. 
the Plebes are ordored to. constant- Under a new system to be tried out 
ly and conspicuously display aro at tills year a Pep-Captain has been appresent on their way from tho man- p0jntod in each school to work with | vacated last yoar in favor of Ed Ithcil.
ufacturer and will he on sale short- the cheer loaders in keeping the Car- With thoso two men co-operating with
ly at a prico ot llvo cents. Fresh-||ok!o spirit alive. Jack Harris In ; sioitd, tlio clubs arc assured of a sue
Next Sunday afternoon at 2:30, the 
Carnegie Tech Glee Club will have 
its first gathering in the Exhibition 
Room of the Arts Building, and tho 
Mandolin Club will meot in the Un
ion. i
These organizations constitute one 
of the major non-athlotic activity on j tioularly hard job as there is only a 
tho campus and 'all men who cannot | very small squad with which to work 
play football are urged to come, out this year. The student body 
for tho llrst meeting. The directors
workout was held the first day for the 
essential purpose of loosening up 
muscles, long idle. On Tuesday, howover, work was started in earnest. 
Wally Steffen and his helpers. Doc 
Marks, Bob Waddell and A1 Irwin be
gan molding tho Tartan eleven for the 
ensuing season.
Men like Jimmy Ronortson. Gy 
Comfort, Dutch Zelt, Jimmy Anderson 
and others will be sadly missed and 
as a result much time must, be spent 
developing new men. This is a parhave been signod up for tho yoar by 
Manager Holter Sload, who announces 
that Steve Kovnck will again wield 
tho baton for the mandolinors, and 
that A1 Johnson will rosumo his post 
as diroctor of the Glee Club, which he
men shall buy and wear thorn the glenc, Dud Mims In Industries, H., , , , ,, ....................
llrst day that thiSy aro on salo and ja ch,rl[ A]m0 0to6forU  Arts, T "IS?"' nml tl'l> wln 1,0
shall continue wearing them 
October 17.
Some of the Plbes aro not
untili and Virginia iSiobort in Maggy Murph 
have boon temporarily selected for 
luI tlioso positions. These captains met
Distinctive Hats For 
Distinguished Seniors
Far More Handsome Than 
Last Years Toppers
After a most enthusiastic welcome 
accorded to the new Plebes by the 
zealous Sophs, the two classes sus
pended hostilities at that impressive 
ceremony the Burial of the Hatchet, 
Tuesday evening, September 16, at 
Tech Field. The Plebes are now safe 
from further molestation during good 
behavior and strict adherence to reg
ulations.
A large crowd of undergraduates 
attended the pageant of peace which 
marked the cessation of general raz
zing.
The dramatic department was in 
charge of the performance; the major 
parts being played by dramatic stu
dents. Harold Minor, a Sophomore, 
took the part of chief of the defend
ers of the five with Maury Tuckerman, another Sophomore as the scout. 
Robert Gunder, a Plebe, was chief of 
the invading Plebes. Hardy Albright 
played the role of the spirit of peace.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Have you Seniors seen your hats? 
The hat committee this year has 
.spent some time in securing the best 
that can be had for a reasonable 
price. The hats are much heavier 
and more durable than last years, 
with only a small difference in price. 
And on most Seniors they look fine. 
But its not the fault of the hat if it 
isnt becoming.
If youre a member of the class of 
1925, and you want to be considered 
a real member of that class youll be 
wearing one. And even if that isnt 
your ambition, you ought to be proud 
enough because youve reached the 
top of the pile that youd wear one, 
just to tell the world you expect to 
graduate sooner or later.
The hats are on sale any and every 
noon in Room 2, Industries, and all 
the busy Seniors who havent yet 
found time to do the purchasing of 
one, are urged to come around soon 
and get theirs, because the supply 
is limited. No kidding.
nomicsi- Another newcomer in this 
department whose appointment is of 
more than usual interest is Samuel 
W. Washington, a descendant of, tho 
family of George Washington. Mr. 
Washington, who has been engaged 
as instructor, is a native of Charles 
town, W. Va., and a former Rhodos 
scholar from his home state.
(Continued on Page Three.)
Former Field House 
Now Serves Meals
filling their obligation to speak toj ]11S< Friday with members of the Careach other and to tho older students/ 110Rl0 Song Book sUlff wll0aro spoli
as many Upperclassmen report. The soring the now system and drew up 
older girls and fellows still fool; preliminary plans for tho season.
charitable enouEl to forgive such Ono ot their Important decisions membership provided they have satomissions, but starting this week wua vooiRftnJzo the Carnegie Insti* 
they  ill tulto the names of the; UltD ot Tnchnology band of onthusnegligent and report thorn to the ;ui(|(. students (better known as the 
| Plebo Regulations Committee. Ottos). All former memliors along
rho Regulations Committco an- wj|j, Jiny ether Juniors or Seniors who 
nounces that Upperclassmen can be!,vn, t0 s00 th0 oitrnogle spirit grow 
ot great assistance in the enforeo- iiro expected to turn out. at tho llrst 
ment of the rule If they will Prompt- tomorrow at 12:20 In tin'
ly turn in names of offenders. They Lan(tley La|,. ,,n Thursday tlie momcan also help maintain the spirit of b0R, ,,, ,|ttcniI |hll I'lobe Rally In a 
tho rule by replying In friendly b0(ly t0  tn^trucloi-H for lb,' 
fashion to the Plobes who speak to .-how thom ],ow
them.
The regulations are expected 
achieve their purpose, which is
Tho student body and 
alumni, however, have much faith in 
Wally Steffen, our fighting coach, and 
no mattor how weak our team may 
be this year, It is a. certainty that it; 
will not lack the lighting qualitios 
that liavo characterized Carnegies 
teams In tho past.
But about football camp. Football 
camp is held annually for about two 
weeks with the sole purpose of giving 
tho men as much preliminary train
ing as posBlblo boforo school opens. 
Two practlco sessions and' throo 
meals aro the schedule for tho day. 
Breakfast at 8 o'clock, practlco at, 10, 
lunch at 12:30, .practice at 8; and din* 
nor at 0:30. And how those boys 
drank milk and ate Mattys (thats 
tho culinary artist at Mollon 1-Iail) 
cooking. Hurl. Munluill, supply ser
geant for tho commissary, was order* 
Ing 2fi gallons of mlllc a day, and Mo* 
.  , , . ... , . fort was always howling for more,iHfaotoiiy standing in their studies, and j |)oy ,,1 ................ ..........
that they can slug or play a recog-1 ipg at camp, and not ono complaint 
nlzod musical instrument, it Is sug-! was hoard by tho management, 
gestod that candidates present them-1 Mellon Annex served as a, hunk*
house for tho warriors, and during
pleasant and Interesting.
As explanatory information con
cerning the applications for member
ship, tho announcement has been 
made as follows: All men In the va
rious colleges will ho eligible for
ronl
! cheering should bo done.
selves for enrollment, at Ilio limo and I,, ., their sparo time many good times
place mentioned, prepared to nonio wwo j,tl(j pinylur: cards und talking
every Sunday afternoon at tho same j ovor past experience. However thoro
was no golf much to Wortonbergern. 
disgust.
After tho llrst few days of light.
who will select tho men en wor)totH, ...... vnilty und freshmen
(Continued on Pago Four.)
enable tho Incoming students 
more quickly form an extensivo 
qualnfanceshlp. Minetti Chosen as
Complete Transformation 
Proves Popular on Campus
Carnegie students found a number 
of important changes in tho eating 
facilities on the Campus whon -they 
returned last Wednesday for the first 
classes of the year. As a result of 
the increase during the past few 
years in the number of students 
who live on or close to the Campus, 
authorities have concentrated their 
attention during the summer toward 
.the improvement of cafeteria facili
ties.
The most important innovation is 
the opening with the new college 
year* of the Field House as a cafe
teria and restaurant. As soon as 
the Field House had been vacated 
in the spring by the athletic depart
ment which took over new quarters 
in the new gymnasium and in the 
basement of the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College, the interior of the 
building was reconstructed to house 
three dining rooms. When the ren
ovation is completed early in Sep
tember, the former Field House will 
contain a main dining room for 
women students, a faculty dining 
room on the second floor and a grill 
room in the basement.
The old Field House has under
gone a complete transformation, and 
emerges new and shiningthe hand
somest dining hall on the Campus. 
The heavy beamed ceiling is elabor
ately decorted in pale pink and 
green, with a heavy art metal chan
delier hanging from each of the four 
(Continued on Page Two.j
PRIZEDPRINTERS PURSUE
PORTENOUS PROGRAM
Tom Donohue, the printer from 
Chicago, will head the Graphica men 
this year and promises a season full 
of interest and excitement for all 
printing students and an administra
tion as sensational as that of any 
Democrat.
Plans will soon be under way for 
the most extensive Christmas card 
campaign ever attempted in prepara
tion for the Easter inspection trip 
which is being made an annual af
fair. by the Graphicers.
Donohue was elected president of 
the Graphica for this year at the 
farewell banquet given for the Sen
iors last June. His supporting offi
cers are: Frank Powers, vice presi
dent; Nelson Mitchell, secretary; 
and Fred Phelps, treasurer.
-DEGREE MEETING 
IN 104 INDUSTRIES
The Non-Degree Association wil 
hold its first meeting of the year 
Wednesday at 4:30, in the Assembly 
Room of the College of Industries, 
The meeting is for all non-degree 
and shourt course men and will be 
held for the purpose of nominating 
officers for the year, and explaining 
Plebe regulations and eligibility for 
activities. It is the custom to pick 
the president and secretary from the 
second year men and the vice presi
dents and the treasurer from the 
incoming class. First year men are 
requested to attend *bis meeting or 
to send in a written excuse for ab
sence. Failure to do this will be 
punishable by trial.
Engineers Survey in 
West Virginia Hills
Civil Department Conducts 
Good Summer Camp
time for rohoarsals. Tho multar o 
tryouts has boon disapproved by l.li 
director
deportment, energy, ability to do'ihn 
I work, and attendance.
II Is hoped that a largo poi'coutngo 
U * - j I ef tlio Freshman class will come outIC3C1 Lneer LC^ClCr I lor the dubs this year for the posi____________ j Hon of manager In open every yoar,
j and a well trained senior In needed. 
I In addition to tills olllce, otlior posi
tions aro opon to members In tho 
Sophomore and Junior years.
Student Council Holds 
First Meeting
Its;
French Scientist Will 
Give Lecture Thurs.
Tho Student Council at Its Initial 
mooting ol; tho current school year, 
elected Al Minetti to head tho Car
negie cheer loaders for J 02*1-25.
Minetti is a Senior in the Civil EnProf. Abraham to Discuss 
Time Measurement
Carnegie Welcomes 
New Recognition Pins if
Upperclassmen and Alumni 
May Wear Button
Identification pins for upper-classThe llrst. public lecture of the sou* , 
son at Carnoglo Institute of Toclmol:>gy will be given next Thursday night 
30 In the theater of tho College 
Ino Arts whon Professor Henri 
Abraham, of Paris, an Internationally 
known physicist and mathematician, 
will discuss "Measurement of Time. 
The lecture will bo open to the pub
lic without ticket requirements.
Professor Abrahams discussion 
will be of particular Interest to all 
scientists in this district, especially 
the physicists and mathematicians. 
The distinguished Frenchman was enSummer surveying camp for . tho i . , ... , - . - ,, ,, i ginocring Department of tho College 
Civil Engineers at Davis, W. Va.. j 0f Engineering, a member of Sigma 
Tucker County, wound up success- jopsiion phi, and starred in the Senior 
fully as the second summer camp held a(;t which won the Kilvor cup a, the 
in the wilds of West Virginia. As a 1924 Science Stag. Minetti, who 
camp site, this county, with its ir-1 Rarnod his spurs under the tutelage 
regular and more or less rocky moun-1 of Cy Hoenniger, last; year's head 
tains, affords an ideal situation for I eheer leader, should prove a capable
practical work in surveying. The j man for leading Carnegie cheers. i men and alumni are being worn on
town In which the summer- surveyors I Th(.  aIlio v0.,| to award I lho campus for the llrst time this
were stationed is situated on a pla-, Frederick C. (Cy) Hoenniger, a j This barter is tr, ,.rv,............
teau of the Allegheny mountains a 11 sweater and letter for his services as 11   K(, 1  BU'c ah 1 j gaged lor the lecture by Dr. Baker,
an elevation of about 3100 feet above ! ]lead cheer leader last year. means of ldentiflcation of all Car-, while Professor Abraham was attendsea level where the mountain air is j Holler Sload, chairman of the Plebe ! uegie men and women, both on and Ing the Centenary Celebration of the 
pure and the climate is healthful. Regulations Committee, reported on \ off the campus. Founding of the Franklin Institute.
The summer course began June 12'the result of the Burial of the Hat- j The center nears a design of a this-1 an(I tlie ,naHSuratlon exercises of the 
and ended July 25th. It was in charge , diet, the pageant enacted at the Car- . . , . . .. . . Bartol Research Foundation, held durof Prof. Stanton with Messrs. Vier- negle Bowl last Tuesday evening. * 111 " na 1 ' " 1 CITTEITS j jg tbe past week at Philadelphia,
heller, Daniels and Lieut. Hemenway ; Sload also reported that the Plebe j a beveled edge border, in which At the Centenary Celebration, Pro
as instructors. The group of stu-1 recognition pins would be placed on the colorH oC the four colleges are in-, fossor Abraham officially represented
dents who attended numbered 43 in ! sale at five cents each. Every Plebe j J *ie clefitfn furnished either the University of Paris at the Sorall, 20 civils, miners, and 10 building  must buy one of these pins. j as a l)in 01 a Kcrew button for lapel bonne, where he is director of the
construction men. Of these the civils j The members of the Student Couii-! wear. Physics Laboratory. He is also an
and miners remained the entire six cil for 1924-25, voted to hold their | Last year a contest was held among j ofllcer of the French Legion of Honor,
weeks, and the Industries men stayed weekly meetings of Tuesday even- under-graduates and alumni for the He is widely known among scientists
ings.
SOPHS WIN OVER PLEBES 
IN ANNUAL CLASS GAMES
for a three weeks workout in prac
tical surveying.
The first three weeks of the course 
consisted of topography, under the 
guidance of Prof. Stanton, and other 
map work with Lieut. Hemenway su
pervising. The remaining three weeks
were spent in railroad practice fori The Sophomores easily won the an means of identification and recogni-j --------
the Civils arid Miners. Sometime was nual Inter-class contests with the j tion has been felt for all those above | The ICO tie Band members held their
also devoted to work on levels, pre-j Plebes; trimming the newcomers by! the freshman stage, arid it Is now | firat meeting of the school year last
cise leveling, stream gauging, trian- j the score of 31 to 2G, The games, j (Continued on Page Two.) ( Thursday evening In the Union. Many
gulatlon, base line measurement -and j which were held on Tuesday after-[  ------- ----------I of the old. faces were seen back
purpose of selecting a design for this j for his writings and contributions to 
recognition badge. The winning de- j research in physics.
sign, however, was not used, the idea ------------------------
for the pin having been suggested hyinAKjpv PDCDAPPQ FHP 
Mr. G. L. Tilhrook and worked out by 1 KEI /iKCJ I UI\
Herff-Jones Company, the makers.
For quite a time the need of someBUSY CONCERT SEASON
many other uses of the transit. Whon j noon, September 1.6, at the Forbes HUT LIBRARY AGAIN OPENS 
field work was inaccessible and on street field, included boxing and SHELVES TO STUDENTSf
-alny days the tinje was efficiently ; wrestling matches, tie-up contest, I
(Continued on Page Two.) j medicine ball race and tug-of-war,! The school library Is open from !l
-------------------- most of which wore won handily by | o fl dally except Friday and Saturday,
CITMAS CLUB INVITES the Sophs. ' to 5, Students In all colleges may
ALL CARNEGIE MASONS The Plebes made most of their obtain the books for their required
-----7~ { points In boxing and wrestling roading, and for reference.
AIL Masons at Carnegie are Invited matches, In each of which they split) Messenger servico between tho HutJVtk fVL. va.llivh1'-' ^ ... , . vi.v. iihi ill Ull.1,11  ..........  II,' if  ..... ............................................................
to attend a smoker being held under) honors with the 8'ophs. Tho Sophd- Library and the Carnoglo Library on* 
the auspices of tho Citmas Club at mores cleaned up In the medicine ball ables one to borrow quickly any clr* 
the Acacia House, G30 Clyde street,j race and the tug-of-war, and they also j dilating book In Carnoglo Library. 
Wednesday, September 24, at seven won the tie-up contest by the score The Arts Branch Is located In the
o'clock. of eight to five. College of Fine Arts Hldg. It con
A splendid program has been, care- A Plebe startled the applauding tains books and magazines 011 the 
fully prepared by the committee and crowd of onlookers by charging that j various art, and while primarily for 
includes smokes, eats and entertain-: the Sophs had tied their end of the arts students, It Is accessible to stuments. Night school as well as da7j rope to a. tree In the tug-of-war, but dents of all I lie colleges, 
faculty and students are invited, this charge was immediately retractthus offering an excellent opportun-i ed upon application of the paddle to
ity to become acquainted.the offender.
During football season, when games 
are played "at home"- the Hut," Is 
open until 6 oclock 011 Saturdays.
were seen 
again and quite a number of new 
men responded to tlio call for candi
dates.
Tlio now members rocolved an ex
planation of thij work and various 
functions ol! the band by short but 
intorofitlng talks given by Dean Tarbell and the officers of the organisa
tion. Then tho Instruments were 
taken from their resting places, the 
dust carefully wiped from them, and 
again the familiar old tunes filled the 
Union.
ft was unofficially announced that 
the band will accompany the football 
team to Penn State for the game on 
Pennsyl 'unia Day.
Afteij tn' strains of the music died 
down and the keg became empty the 
meeting adjourned until Tuesday 
(Continued on Page Two.
/ i" 1 

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24. 1924
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tlie supervision ol' the Student Council.
Entered in the Pontofilce of Pittsburgh an econd-clasH matter.
FRED C. SMITH..
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
................................................................................Illland 8C38-M
F. 1). ROSSINI
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
T. J. DEMPSEY E. C. FRAZIEII
Sara Mae Everett,
EDITORIAL STAFF
A. E. Krogh, D. A. Gardner, \,, II. Harris, Harriot Merwln, 
A. F. Carson.
FRED T. P11ELI*.'-
MANAGING EDITOR
{...............................................................................Schenley 0102
W. WINNING ....
NEWS EDITORS
....................................................................Schonloy 0070
TECH STUDENTS Carnegie and Pitt Representatives at 
EARN" $76 349 87 Last Annual Silver Bay Conference t
IN PAST YEAR
! FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE ;
Wide Range of Jobs Found 
For Students of Both Sexes 
Despite Business Depres
sion of Season
ALL PART TIME WORK
I Carnegie students earned $70,340.87 
I In part-time employment secured 
I through the Aluinnl Placement Bu
reau during tho year ending June 30,
REPORTERS
Estelle Garibaldi, Wilma Htlner, Carol Folght, Almee Pharo, M. G.
Johnson, K. Fulmer. !'. M. McClelland. C. A. Lundqulst, It. U Leppor, M,
Holllnshead, W. Foncli, W. Sonlcus, I). K. Mini.
ROSEMARY McCAM HRIDGE....................................................ALUMNI EDIT Oil w
Anlsstants...................Margaret McFall, J. M. Goss, M. W. Cay, Nora Willett .. .. ' TMh.*nnkJ CHRISTOFF...........................................................................ATHLETIC EDITOR ' (Ujruln>* 10 Hlbiook,
AHltantH..................O. 10. Jacoby, J. F. Harris, 13. C. Plummer, J. A. C. Foller executive aecrotury of the Alumni Aj Hoclatlon. in qualifying the report, 
j Mr. Tllbrook etlmate that the total 
j earning In part-time employment 
; during the pant yoar are actually 25 
j per cent higher, or nearly $90,000.00, 
| a a large number of the tudent se| curing work through the bureau have 
I neglected to report their earning.
In spite of tlie Industrial depression 
that became evident during the punt 
j year, the report ol! total earn lug for
BU8INESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON......................................................................................Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER. ....................................................................f..........Schenley 0122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W., Metro, R. L. Sandroclc, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, l-( 
Airgood, N. Alexander, J. Jj. Bauorle. J. P. Strl/.ak,
*o C. Osborn, J. M. 
Lois Snyder.
tlie Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up., j
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will be withhold if desired. All news items must bo In the student 
post office, before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OlllceRoom 5-A, Industriel Building. OIlice 
1:20.
hoursDally 12:30-
It must have been a great disap-, youth. The present disheveled ap
pointment to a large number of the j pearance of the campus when com. . , . ! pared to the campuses of the olderincoming students when they got: . , . . . , ,,schools, pictures very closely the dif-their first view of the campus. Theferences in the spirits of the institupresent appearance of the quadran- j tions. Carnegie has not yet settled 
gle is not at all inspiring and prob- \ in a rut. Precedents for unusual 
ably in strong contrast to the fond ; situations are still being made daily 
pictures which each of the newcom- ; and new theories of education are
era had created for himself.
There is, however, consolation in 
the very fact of the disarranged lawn. 
Undoubtedly the quadrangle will ap
pear much better when finished than 
it did before it was torn up. One can
constantly being tried while enough 
of the old methods are always re
tained so that the experiments may 
be safe.
It will be the high privilege of the 
class of '28 to have a large hand ia
Y.M.C.A. PROMOTES WHOS WHO LISTS 
MANY ACTIVITIES FIFTEEN FACULTY
already begin to espy order in the; guiding the future destinies of our
chaos and we daresay there will be j school. As the years pass by the
a treat ready for the eyes of the old i precedents and traditions which we 
grads who will return campus week. | now establish will come to gufde the 
To the newcomers let us say this: coming college generations more and 
As you work into the spirit of Car-1 more. It is our privilege to assist 
negie you will find that the campus i in making these precedents and it is 
is not the only thing hereabouts that j our duty to watch our step so that
is in the experimental stage. Car- whatever we do may be for the good
negie is young, STie is younger than : of Carnegie, 
most of us that study here. At the i 
hut library may be seen a picture of j 
the breaking of ground for Carnegie I 
Tech in the fall of 1905. Only seven I 
people, Including the photographer j 
attended the event last year, thirty j 
thousand people saw the Carnegie-j 
Pitt game. Quite a progress, isnt it? j 
The glory of Carnegie lies in her | .
Find Places in Roll of 
Eminent Men
since the bureau was organized. Of j _____ I ____________
! tho total earnings reported, men stu- j t || iieniu earned *00,769.24 ami women i Send.Delegates to Silver Bay Carnegie Profs, and Officers
| students reported earnings of $15,- ! 
i 590.03.
I The wide range of jobs found for 
students of both sexes constitutes one]
I of the Illuminating features of the re-1
I port. For men, the jobs found by Tlie Y. M. C. A. is an organiza* Fifteen officers and faculty mem______________  Miss Grace 13. Merrill, in charge of j tion which holds a prominent place ^ i>ers of Carnegie Institute of Tech-|
livery year with the opening tone of this ap.er, it is ens-  rUmn ttj *** 
and expected that we give a word ot welcome to the meommg I' ebes .  tSllr tS t are noi limited lo me Campus ana edition or "Whos Wlio m America.
with a word ol advice as to their future conduct. Consider tins as ! B<-"-ral fcavo u lh0,r l,loou 10 ...............................1
a welomc. We wish all Plchcs the 12:C10 of luck in the world; they'll 11JJ;u)u UJ1UUI Lllt3 n 
need it. As to advicc, we cant improve on that given by tlie various ranilfuu|0II donors
TO PLEBES
Conference and Sponsors 
Other Organizations
Offer^Lecture Course 
On Coal Utilization
Countries, Dr. Fettke; The Econom
ics of Coal Production, W. L. AffeLder, Assistant to the President, Hill
man Coal and Coke Company.
Preparation of Coal for Market. 
' j Dr. H. F. Yance, Associate Chemist,Course'Given in Co-operation pmrtmffl Experimental station, u.
With Bureau of Mines
A new course of lectures for coal 
j salesmen on Coal and Its UtilizaI side peraon^and'ure'tabulatoffiVie I t'i^e are many who do not" rentlize| copies ot which have just been is-: tion" will lie given during the com........ under the Hlmplo distinction as the benefits ot the Y and the admlr-j sued. In addition to tlie members college year in co-operation
v | able work it accomplishes on the ;0t the staf[ at Carnegie Tech, five " ' Bureau ot Mines and, . -- . . I . ..vaM.w.. ..vuvi.'. Jobs found by I----- ------- -- --------- i *JL WO BLllLL aw UlMUCglC AOlsU, UIOI _T . . T ,Joans and the President. They know more about the troubles o! , MIhh Anna s. Illbbs, in charge of! outside. The installation of radios Museum ' a<lvi801'y boar.d of coal;,n1e opr.
Freshmen than wo over will, and so their words ol! wisdom may be Womens Employment, ranged from for any of our students from Curi DPI)artmeut oC Fine Arts tUo Lil, , engllJeers- While the,
accepted as worth their wiigl.t in gold, and they were weighty waitresses to teachers. negie who are so unfortunate, as, to .^tnTtbe DepTrtme^of Mnsic Z ^coal
 oe the 3107 part-time Jobs for men spend somo time in the local bos- r le ten mem- w m ? . Pittsburgh
Our advice is this. Study at nighls. Do anything you want in Iertven out during the year, 11142 were I liitals, Is a fine feature ot wUehj fJB? strict, it will be .pen,to anyone inS. Bureau of Mines; Combustion of 
Coal, H. W. Brooks, Fuel Engineer, 
j Pittsburgh Experiment Station, U. S. 
: Bureau of Mines, (7 lectures) ; Get
ting the Most Out of Coal, (illustrat
ed with motion pictures) and Mar
keting of Coal as Related to Trans
portation and Quality, J. D. A. Mor
row, Vice President and General Man
ager, Joy Machine Company.
your hours out of clttss in the day time, but stay home on school  Tg.r
nights and hone. You can t beat the game by trying to loI on 'I'1- w,.r0 Next ia number were Ito names are bandehanded to Mr. Davis
j calls for musicians, for which 190 jobs I l^ the Y Office, 
i were filled. Ushers were In heavy do' mand, also, and other classes of job j come of the II1-Y Club,
were pltals, is a line teature ot ..p, f th b a  tru3tees o the! teresteiin. few people have heard. - Prompt at-| r 1.1 . _ teresteu.
1 ' to any cases lasttate are listed in tho current: The lecturers tor the course will
edition. I nciU(ie Carnegie faculty members,
' Members ot the Carnegie Tech, expertB attached to the Pittsburgh
 ....   ,,p  _*, 1Isted incJuae Dr- Thomas S. station of the Bureau of Mines, and. ,!E S...5 .J miv Baker' President: Prank A. Bicknell, aeveral mining engineers associated 1U>j associate pw^fessor, Department of;
clock. From seven-thirty to ten-thirty is th company\s li 
il! you clou t study tlion, out you WWDNA Its iiievitable. You Cant
liolp yourselt. Make up your mind to it, and tlien do il,. , mun.i, u.ou, |iuu n j,.....; ut un ** **** | associate proiessor, Department ori Wittl th coai industrv of this diqtrirtAnoUier thing. Dont Ioni, all your sparo hours m Ilio day lune. , uHte(| jn th report include band meri, l gaining in favor and all Itl-Y men Palnting and niustration; Dr. W. V.j The STB rnnlLt J99 
(Jo out l'or somo gOd aetivity. The averago Plebe schedule is not clorks, stc-nographers, interpreters, 1 are requested to leave thelr names ninghain, director of the Division of Kiven on pridav pvpnlneq nf P-ir-ii
is
so heavy that you cannot spare the time to go out for something and ; gardeners, electricians, chauffeurs, at the office, 
do it well. Youll be glad oil it next year. I Ml; chemical and electrical ongl-1 Tho organization of tho Y,M.
given on Friday evenings of each 
I Co-operative Research; Miss Mary. week from 0ctober to March
V/* B. Breed, director of Margaret Morri- 27, 1925.
ENGINEERS SURVEY IN
WEST VIRGINIA HILLS
(Continued From rage One.) 
devoted to notebooks and drawing. 
The time of work was from 8 to 4:30 
weekly with half day Saturday. Dur
ing the holidays and evening the 
campers amused themselves in play
ing bridge, baseball, tennis, swim
ming or even indulging in Coca Cola 
or the lone movie house which held 
down a corner in the mountain city. 
Some luckily also found other means
 . . . t\ 1 vurnuin, uiiu uukum. iau qurvico uti muii uu inu v/iuuiio unu.vj i ijons j'Ted (Jrautree nroL'essor and , . , ,  . occupying theii spaie moments,
rule that Plcl.cs must speak to every man (hey meet on the Umpus. ; l|lv|H|m| ot the bur8tt WI1!1 SOU(!t t0 reCelvo tlie full benefits of the Y } 'oJ X ZSnf  allur ! na , byJi\ K Eav,es0 TI>ee fortunate few soon acftuired
A host of friends is far more valuable than a host of A's and this is L m ,lMrlnK th yUI., ............ and to help in the process, and MI^b Engtaeerfmr Sum-1t i '? nel"r. and C. E. the titles of sheik of the camp; fora fine step in obtaining thom. And remember, tho Sophs will be f th0B0 123 Meeured permanent posl- of welding an organization with. the !let. B Kly :,a'iKtaut professor De- h1". l Resident,, tunately no hearts were broken
out gunning for the mail who is too high hut Ifl carry out t his very ,inn during the period of their stud- Interests ot Carnegie foremost. j partment ot Commercial Engineer-: "i.TTf u ! throuBh tllem but as we understand
obviously pleasant rule. Dont i'orgol.t speak to everyone, from Doc- lo nt the Institute. I At the Silver Bay Conference this ing; Porter Garnett, associate pro- imlnqtrv* a r
the hoys n, had a woadortulglg of QmplUc ^ Henry Horn.|f J^'^Sal
ireau of Mines, (3 
of Physics as 
i Related to the Coal Industry. Dr. J.
" of ll1ZrrPrbimTS\ri^T,ri"i: Norwood MacGilvray as-, a Nathanson, Assistant Professor ot
lulled, and assignments to care professor Department ol| Phyrfoi> cnrnegie Institute of Techclilldion ............... ......... of the most ^ tL i uabl'e I, n T Henry K nol (3 ,cturaB). ..Tha MilIMc.I remunerative classes of employment. I 08 ae> absoibing uu the valuable j McGoodwln, head ot tho Department
ideas expressed at the
One of tho rogidtions will prove ot inesUniuble vaine to th ; nenrs, pafnters, artists, pali hearers. A. mombeership enroliment (or Oc-j gon Carnegi0 college; Dr. C. B. ConliV,.ul,.nn il. n-eltliur Ilio nuisl nnl of bis school li f ami flint is tlir triiiiftuslon doners, house worli, miti tober 7, S, 1 and 10 glves ovei-y nelley, airoctor of Industriai Reta- J. loshman in getting tlic most , , workers. and tutor. Tho Service of man on the Campus an opportuiiDy v,i hmhtroa nmrnoa,
The subjects of lectures to be given 
*l will include: General review of the
I coal industry, by I-I. N. Eavenson,
On
tor Balter to the ardenor.Women studon'tsplaced in
PEP MEETINGS
rhs, stenographers, sewing, 
ping service, painting, checking, and
1 A. new regulation has been passed that all hYeslimon must al
lend pop modings t bo hold every Thursday noon in Troni ol! the 
library hut during the football season. While this is compulsory for 
the Plebes, every upper classman should bo thoro too. Our team this 
year is going to need plenty of support from the student body, and
this is one way ol! giving it. ................
It will encourage the football men who see it by showing them typing, 
that the students are willing to spend their time in practicing their Full-tlmo employment was found by 
cheers bol'ore the game. It will enable the students to strengthen | tlio bureau during tho yoar for I7S 
their vocal organs and consequently make more noise by cheering in j men graduates and so women gradolV limes And you will be surprised to feel how y'our own euthu- j union. The lurosl clnaslfloutlon of 
Miasm will be invalided and kept at a higher pitch by these informili i "on aradunles -onslsied of lio grad............ings. ThoroYP somothing in them I Imi gets in to I he 1.1....... ""to"  '''P'^n.n.it of Machinery
and we predict that the spirit shown at tho football games will show roduotlon with ,u\ placements. Com. 
it noticeable improvement over that of last year.
lOvoryono will attorni the games. Well, let's all gel out to these 
pep rallies so that we will be able to give our best when the team 
vis in a bad way, , .
Al Minetti is tho new cheerleader and will lead the yells. With 
hi;: naturel gifts, he should be able to awaken boundless enthusiasm noerlug.
wish him luck in his new business.
1,308 part-time jobs durlng tho yoar. tlmt an(l ^turnod ;with a coat part-time professor of Arphi- statloii TJ LB  ra
the heavlest demand being l'or wait- snburn and full of intoresting ldeas| tecture; Dr. Joseph H. James, head eotures  Flementq 
rosse. Work as t-ach. rs was next d tales. Tho generai run of th of tho Department of Chemical En-j Rolated to th Coni *
ber of calla cnferonco were dlscusslons 011 tho g-ineering; Norwood MacGilvray, as-| B Nathanson Assista
;o caro for Gnmpiw Problem,- the Race Pro-| SOCiate professor, Department of piiysics * rar ne ci e Ins
/%f Mww., l blom" and tho "Peace Problom/ j pa|nting and lllustration; Henry K. nology (3 lectui-os) 
McGoodwin, head of the Department\turQ ai'Ml utllizatioii ......
of Ardi toctare, and actfng director speCJul Attentici to By-Product Colf 
or th collego of Pino Arts; WUliairi|,  ,, ,, Rll]nsbln.K| vlco Pre8Iaent,
E. Moti, director of th College of The Kol)po ComI)ny. .,TU| 0,.lsln 
Engineering, Di'. Waltor P. Rlttmnn, 0[ coai," Dr. C. R. Pettke. Associate 
liead ot he l>epnrlment of Commor-, professor ot Ceology, Carnegle Insticinl Engineering; Willibald Tnnks. tuto o[ Technology; "Coal Resources
Others wore placed In positions as,shop- * 1 wl"ch will be but on trial at
tho cOUegos throughout the country, ouir boys dkl fine in athletlcs. 
Then won second place in the traclc 
meet and walkod off wltli tho basebaM chnmpionshlp. Tho dolegatlon 
from Carnegie wero: Midgo" Mat
ter, "Art" Bahr, .laok Brlght, "Bonnio" Frav.lor, Max Bastian, "Pete" 
Soamon, Earl Whoeler, Bell' Gublo, 
MelQlweon, "Cy Hoennlnger, Dr. Mc* 
Mlllln and Mr. Sper.
Tho Senior Counsellor supper was 
doclaredi n hugo success by all who 
. ; atti>ml(d and Is now becomlng a wen. Knidiiaies i tho 'M'urln.eiu : m,(Uoll on Clun|lu. ohairnmn
Frn/.Ier and Mr. Davis dosorve mueh 
credit for tliolr splendid worlc. Mr
pl
morolal Daglnoors und Eloctrlcal EnKlaeeni woro next ln lino with lil 
plnoohibnts onoh, ol tho total woro 
Chemien! Engineer graduato, ami
head of the Department ot Mochan- j n[1(1 Mnrkols ot v g  Co[l, 
ical EiiRlneerlng; Atender Jay R0B0i^es and Markets of ForeignWurt/,, roBenrch professor of Elec-j_________________________________________
trlcal Engineering, andi Norman C.
; ul' Metnllurglcal and Minine, IOnr.1-
Itlggs, professor of Mechanics.
Included, also, In this edition aro 
tho listings of Dr. C. S. Yoakum, 
who rosignod in June as diroctor of 
tho Doparemont of Personnel Re
search to join tho staff at tho Uni
versity of Michigan, a^id Prof. John 
S. Koir, who roBlgnod this year as 
head of tho Department of Economics
his followers, and we wish him luelc ill his new business. H growing Inclination !<> enter the I lCLrputrlclc did tho honors as toast.I to accept a position with a manufac'
teaching profession Is revealed In tlio | master and Dr. Baker, "NVally" Stef-1 taring concern in Massachusetts.
Other departments- of Carnegie In 
stitute are roprsented in the listings
Tho improvements on the Campus are not so noticeable as they report that of the sc women grad* I and Dean Tarboll greatly lmmiohl be but iust wait until we get the gross growing again. I nates placed In full-tlmo positions p,.0BStHi the live hundred Seniors and
'J!'------------------------------- |  ----------------------------------------------------* i Insl your, 5:. of them wore as tench- Preslnnon with their addresses. The
jyri  o. A 10/x T/-vnc I T C' ENROLLMENT oi's of either home oconomics, ecro- committee extiuls its sincere thanks1YUSS ulOllv^ AioU Julllo I NEARING NEEDED QUOTA] tarlal studies, science, and normal art. to tho Senior and Freshmen for their
--------- Twenty-two Other graduates went di- co-operutlon and only hope for fur(Contlnued From Page One) | reetly into business capacities as sec-j ther co-operntion in the coming euI cossful. The Signal Corps at Camp j retnrles. two secured work as clicm-1 rollment,Dept, of House Econ.
r Cl
Former Simmons Gr aduate 
to Teach in M. M.
Miss llachol Stoao, of Otter River, 
Mass., has been engaged as instructor
The Signal Corps at Camp 
Vail spout its usual seaside outing.j ists, live became laboratory tediai-!"
TECH
CONFECTIONERY
Como to us for your lunches and 
good French jpastry.
323 SOUTH CRAIG 
JOSEPH SCOLO
ttmwmtmmroi t::
by the following: iohn W. Beatty,)
director emeritus of the Department 
of Fine Arts; Dr. Charles Ilelnroth.i 
orgnnist and director or the Depart-1 
ment of Music; Dr. John H. Leete, | 
director of the Carnegie Library; i 
Homer S. St. Gaudens, director of! 
the Department of Fine Arts, and 
Douglas Stewart, director of Carne
gie Museum.
Members of the board of trustees
Compliments
of
grounds we also have verifying facts 
that the boys did well; for none oth
ers than such fellows as Cook, etc., 
vouch that they were sorry to leave 
Davis, W. Va.
All in all the follows had a very 
enjoyable stay. Many still remember 
several incidents and good times 
which they will never want to forget. 
One incident in particular as we are 
told was of that during a night at 
Brown's Mountain when a certain per
son claims to have seen a flock of 
bears. We dont care to go into de
tails of this occurrence, but we can 
refer you to A1 Minetti who still main
tains, and also as we are told has 
evidence as to the fact, that bears 
frequently visit the peak of Browns 
Mountain.
as far as the success of camp Iifo 
and summer course was concerned 
most of the credit goes to the pro
fessors in charge who did not hesitate 
to mingle with the fellows and be 
members of the crowd.
Miss Stone, who will be attached to 
the Department of Household Eco
nomics in the Margaret Morrison Cnr
negie College, was graduated last
June with a B. S. degree from Sim- j jje ]jfts not yet returned, 
mons College. For the- past summer,
she has been serving as instructor BAND PREFARES FOR 
with the Household Nursing Associa
tion in Boston.
The appointment of Miss Stone Is 
the second to bo announced concern
ing tho staff in the Department, of 
Household Economics, Miss Halllo W.
Hyde, of Brookings, South Dakota, 
having boon named as Assistant Pro
cessor to succeed Miss Lillian S. Ivonnody, who accepted an appointment 
as doan of homo economics at Bradley 
Polytechnic Institute in Peoria, 111.
Bathing, boating and pretty girls vied cianS. three were dietitians, and two | design applied to other sorts of jewwitli New York as an attraction. At | librarians. ! elry by special arrangement.
Camp Holnbird tho M. T. C. tuned j That a large number of night stu- At present there are about 1,000 
up their trucks and took many inter-1 dents of the Institute of Technology j pins being worn, mostly by alumni,
eating trips. The hard-working engi-jare availing themselves of the bu j Those who have not procured theirs j of Carnegie Institute included in the,^
neers at Camp Meade gained many; veaus service is evidenced in the re- may do so at the Alumni olliee. list are: Colonel Samuel Harden j
------------------------ ! Church, President of the Board of j
FORMER FIELD HOUSE Trustees; Judge Joseph Buffington,;
NOW SERVES MEALS! Howard Heinz, Mayor William A.;
_______ Magee, William McConway, Andrew
(Continued From Page One) j w- Mellon, United States Secretary
. , . ., , ........ fn_ 1>v, vnm. honors. The engineer company won port showing that 101 new jobs wero
in household ccoaonilcs . . | the baselmll championship, were sec [0UU(i for students enrolled in even
at Carnegie. ond lu the track meet| nmi stood well i ng classes. Most of the now poslup in rifle marksmanship. Asbury j (,jous for the evening students were 
Wilson was sent at the expense of! [01. draftsmen, although numerous 
the government to pnrticipnte in the i caug were flned for chemists, clerks, 
National rifle matches at Camp Perry, printers, machinists, surveyors, huild! ing construction assistants, salesmen 
! and electricians.
beams. The walls are in cream plast- the Treasury; Senator David A. 
er with windows trimmed in blue. Reed, Judge James H. Reed, Judge 
The tables and chairs are of the John D. Shafer and J. J. Turner, 
same deep blue to match the winBUSY CONCERT SEASON HATCHET BURIED WITH
-------- IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY cream casement cloth. At one end
(Continued From Page One)  ; of the hall is a large open fire place
evening, September 23, when nil the | (Continued From Page One.) of buff brick.
I-1 :-----:------------
dows which are of the French case-1 ing rooms in use in the Woodlawn 
ment type hung with curtains of | dormitories last year.
The Faculty Diming Room has a
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
men are nsfked to come out again, and | The Indian tribes were represented j in the basement of grill room is 
any others that have a musical talent j by Plebes drafted for the occasion, j to be opened with a soda grill and
are also asked to put in appearance, j The defenders of the five were en- i a private room with tables for the
A drum major who has had some ox-1 cased in blankets, while the invaders I faculty. This is to be open in the
porionee is especially desired. Any-; woro clothed in bath towels nnd gen-! evenings nnd light lunches and reerous contings of grease paints. i fresliments will be served for afterThe act of burying the hatchet ' dance parties. To insure service
never came about because of tho fnct j commensurate with the quality of
that the pow-wow was rudely inter-! food, three shifts of help are emrupted nt. the moment of tho burial j ployed.
by n body of Greeks who turned the Mr. Frnnlc Orbin has devoted an
peaceful Held Into a bloody carnage Immense amount of his time to this
one who has the .required qualifica
tion should soo; Davo Garber, manager 
of the band.
Acacia--M0 Clyde Street...............................................................inland 0380
Alpha Tau Omega -25-I Hollollold Street.............................Schenley oioi!
Beta Sigma llho- -21.315 Wlghtmnn street...................................Hnyiol 0310
Beta Thota PIfifi-IO Forbes Street..............................................Hazel 3320
Delta Chi Uho- -1*108 Wlghtmnn Street.......................................Hnv.el
Delta Mu-1655 Shady Avenue......................................................Huy,el 03*15
Delta Phi Delta350 North Craig Street.......................Schenley 0721-.1
Delta Tau Delta506*1 Forbes Street..................................Schenley 0231
Delta Upsilon4S12 Baum Boulevard..................................Schenley 01015
lota Sigma Dolta--5G01 Wilkins Avenue...................................Har.el 035G
Kappa Epsilon1732 Center Avenue....................................Schenley  
Kappa Sigma(52-1 Clyde Street................................................Hiland 05*1*1
Kappa Sigma Rho1-1-1 Amberson............................................Hiland 0127
Pi Kappa Alpha1807 Baum Boulevard.............................Schenley 02S5
Sigma Alpha Epsilon401!\ Forbes Street..........................Schenley 0211
Sigma Epsilon Phi1929 Ijorbes Street..............................Schenley 0122
Signja Nu1021 Forbes Street..............................................Schenley 0G50
Theta Xi5017 Forbes treet.................................................Schenley 9143
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forbes Street..........................................Hazel 0-122
capacity of 104 and will 1>9 in oper
ation for cafeteria service at noon 
only. The grill room, with a ca
pacity of 100, will operate 18 hours 
daily, this service being primarily! 
offered to the men students residing! 
in the mens dormitories nearby.
In addition to tlie eating facilities j 
provided in tlie Field House, tlie! 
Carnegie Commons, which occupies, 
lialf of Langley Laboratory, and has 
a capacity of about 400, is in opera
tion three times a day for cafeteria! 
irvice, while the cafeteria In the! 
argarot Morrison Carnegie College j
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
j CARNEGIE WELCOMES
NEW RECOGNITION PINS
(Continued From Page One) 
thought that the proper thing has 
been secured. The badge is unique, 
neat and not gaudy. The idea and 
design are original and quite unlike 
the insignia of any other college
in battling for possession of the be- pairtlcular work and has boon warmI fore-mentioned ax. Reports which j ly congratulated by a great number j serving 20 students at each noon is
are not olllotuUy verified state thut tho of visitors on tho beautiful scheme; going operated for the prosent. No
Delta Upsilon fraternity Is In posses* nml general layout of the Inn. changes are planned in connection
i sion of tho coveted bundle, while the Miss Blackford, who Is a Margaret j with the operation of tho dining room 
j bead bus not been traced. | Morrison graduate, is in charge ofj in Forbes llnll where 70 women resithe ball and proves herself a very! dents of tho dormitory aro fed three 
capable manager. Although the now ! times daily, nor in Mellon Hall 
commons stands without a name, It where 75 womon students occupying' 
is expected an appropriate one will rooms, are served three meals durbe supplied soon. [ ing the day.
The main dining room has a ca-! As tlie operation of all ot these 
pacity of 250 mid is exclusively for eating places is under the superviwomen students: Cafeteria servicei sion of the Institute authorities, they!
is provided at noon and the break-, will be for the special benefit of; 
fast and dinner services for the i students and faculty, the meals be-i 
These pins have been manufactured | women students living in the Wood-, ing- served at cost.
in the 5,000 lot. thus securing a very lawn dormitories, this arrangement. --------------------------------------------------=------------------
low price. It is possible to have the J eliminating the need for three din-' PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS <
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schsnley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
>v.>W*;**;**X,v*X**X**X**;"H%**H**H**J*
Complete Your | 
Registration |
Your enrollment is not complete until you have establish- ?> 
ed a relationship with Bible V 
School and Church. %
REGISTRATION SUNDAY ?[*
AT *
Oakland | 
Methodist I 
Church2
SEPTEMBER 28 
10:00 A.M.Bible School 
11:00 A.M.Registration Service
Welcome to new and *?* 
old students. Mes- X 
sage on "The Purpose of Education/  
by the Pastor. 
6:00 P.M.Opening Supper of > 
the Vagabond Club.
A home cooked meal 
with a home atmos- *:* 
phere.  %
7:45 P.M.Presentation of Student Organiations *:* 
and Programs
Make this your home away from *\* 
home. YTRegister at
THE WESLEY FOUNDATION  
OF PITTSBURGH 
Forbes and Boquet
Woodlawn Pharma y
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
OUTLOOK IS BRIGHT OUT EVERY FRESHMAN' [
FOR CROSS COUNTRY.....^ Plebes will meet at 12:20
 Thursday afternoon in front of the I 
Library Hut for the purpose of re-! i 
used
in the Dayton game Saturday. Be 
there promptly, Plebesdont wait 
for the
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
Both Varsity and Freshman  hearfQS so,,ss an(l cheers t0 be usedJ i ill trip Dsvtnn
Candidates Requested to
LETS NOT FLUNK THIS YEAR
Another school year has come around, and those of us who have re___ ___ Sophomores to drag you I turned to dear old Carnegie, together with hundreds of new men and womenReport Today around It is your duty to produce ! wishing to partake of the opportunities aud advantages offered here, are
concerted cheering ,iar(* at "'ork at our lessons. However, it will take a couple of weeks to' become acclimated, for after three months during which we did almost 
Cross country prospects for the everything under the sun except study it is no easy task to make an abrupt
coming season are anything but dull.: SAVING MONEY chJinSe- But in a few short weeks we shall be sailing along in the even
Hnlir (liroa lotior mpn U'PrP insf hVOnly three letter men were lost by 
-graduation last spring, and all of the 
freshman team of last year are back 
in school. Several men who showed 
up well on the varsity and plebe track 
teams have voiced their intentions of 
coming out for cross country, so the 
team will undoubtedly be strength
ened from this source.
This afternoon, a meeting of both 
the varsity and freshman candidates 
will be held in the new dressing 
rooms in the basement of the Marga
ret Morrison building. Coach Halferty and Captain Dykeman will have 
a few words to say, and all new and 
old candidates are urged to be there.
A very difficult varsity schedule has 
been drawn up as follows:
AlleghenyOctober 25, here.
PittNovember 1, here.
Penn S'tateNovember 8, at Penn 
State.
LehighNovember 15, at Lehigh.
Both Pitt and Penn State had very 
formidable teams last year and indi
cations point to their having better 
teams this season.
Sophomore and freshman assistant 
managers are needed arid should re
port at this time to Manager Proctor. 
Credit in Physical Training will be 
given to all underclassmen who serve 
in this capacity throughout the cross 
country season.
The Whitehead Episcopal Students 
Club extends a welcome to all Epis
copal students in school to attend a 
luncheon meeting at the Carnegie 
Inn, on Friday, September 26th, at 
32:30 p. m.
Dr. Meade will make a short wel
come talk and plans will be made for 
the future. It is hoped that as many 
as can will be there.
"Darling," he cried, passionately, 
"I will lay my fortune at your feet. 
"Oh, but you havent got a large 
fortune, she whispered.
No, but it will look larger beside 
those tiny feet.
He won her.Emory Toreador.
Wife (teaching husband to dance): 
My dear man, you learned to do drill 
in the army; why cant you pick this 
up? Its a perfectly simple step. Any- one would think you were mentally 
deficient.
Husband: Almost the sergeant's
own words, my dear.Washington 
Cougars Paw.
"John, you can't! Dont do it. 
"Shut up.
"But youre tearing my dress.
Still vainly he attempted to fasten 
that last hook.Oregon Orange Owl.
The Singer Pen and Gift Shop in 
the Jenkins Arcade will give you rea
sonable prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
Mill 111 Mill llllllll.... l^ . -Chew it after 
every meal
It stimulates 
appetite and 
aids digestion. 
It makes your 
food do yon more 
good. Note bow 
It relieves that stnlly feeling 
after hearty eating.
^Whitens teetb, 
r c e t c n a 
breatb and 
, Its the goody
(-.tenor of our ways. Above all, let us see to it that .we meet our scholastic 
FOR FOOTR AI f TRIP^ ; requirements each day, taid not keep putting off any assignments. If we keep I VJI\ rUL/ID/ALL Hvlrj up our work, the Fs and Rs will be fewer at the end of the semester. Tills
____________ ' especially holds true for those out for the athletics. Let's make it a banner
'Start saving because special ar- year by keePiuS a maximum number of athletes eligible all the time, 
rangements are being made for Plaid !
supporters on team trips to Penn! ...... _ . . DR. BAKER INTERESTED__. __, , ~ W hile Carnegie is essentially a lirst-class scholastic institution, and is
  1u Jefferson.. j-nown throughout the world as such, It does not rank below other large
uarnegie lech will have two, three,j schools in athletics. And why should it, since the administration and the 
four or as many special trains as it j faculty are doing everything in their power to reconcile athletics and scholartakes to take every student down to; ship? During the football training period a couple of weeks ago Dr. Baker 
Little Washington. Later on when attended a dinner at the camp and mhigled right with the boys. He showed 
the Penn State game comes the dope'"1 many ways that he is intensely interested in athletics at Carnegie, and 
is all fixed for a big special to State 1 wil1 alwa>s (1 what-he thinks right in the conflicts 
College.
It has always been a tradition atj 
Carnegie Tech to have 100 per cent
ivhich are bound to arise 
! from time to time. Let us do our part in upholding Carnegies good name.
THE FOOTBALL OUTLOOK
It is hardly necessary to mention here that the loss of such men as 
attendance at the Washington and Robertson, Jim Anderson, Brumbaugh, Taylor. Zelt and Comfort will be 
Jefferson game. The round trip greatly felt on the gridiron at Carnegie this season, for the papers have 
ticket will be $1.10. This is such al been telling us about that since last year and everyone around here knows 
small sum that every supporter will 11 t0 true. On top of that comes the statement by Coach Steffen that 
be able to go. I ^ie material at football camp tills year has been below the calibre of that
j of other years, and that the outlook for a winning team is dark. The humble 
Last year we missed the famous, writer of this column, however, wishes to predict that the Tartans will be 
triup to Penn State and although the there fighting and holding their own with the best of them. While we do not 
time for going this year is about wish to be quoted as saying that the Skibos will beat Pitt, Wash-Jeff and 
six weeks away every one is on Penn State, we should make a good showing against them. Advance in
edie. waiting for the time to come.  formation regarding those teams is that they will all be strong. Pitt has
the material for a powerful eleven, and should be stronger than last yearThe cost of round trip ticket to 
State College will be $6.19.
All Upperclassmen can remember 
the famous trips of the past. They 
never will forget them. There is a 
spirit and enthusiasm present on 
these trips which is really inspiring. 
No one never regrets having gone 
on one.
By the time these trips come 
around every one will have so much 
spirit and pep that they would never 
miss the trip, so lets start saving 
now.
People who live in glass houses 
shouldnt play slide trombones.Cor
nell Widow.
We owe a great deal to chemistry; 
for instance: we owe a great many of 
our blondes.Boston Bean Pot.
Sorry waiter, but Ive got just 
enough to pay the bill and nothing 
left for a tip.
Let me have another look at that 
bill, will you?Boston Bean Pot.
despite the loss of Boliren, Flanagan and others. Wash-Jeff will miss Amos, 
Weiderquist and West, but have plenty of other good men. State is expected 
to be unusually strong. The Quantico Marines and Notre Dame are always 
good, so that these are sure to be hard games. Of course, the smaller col
leges are coming to the front these days, and It would not be surprising to 
see Dayton, Thiel, Toledo or Western Maryland take the measure of the 
Tartans. Every game on the schedule will be a difficult one, but. the prover
bial Carnegie fight and spirit should stand our boys in good stead.
HAVE YOU EVER BOXED?
If not, we might suggest that you take lessons from Purl "Moco" An
derson. He is the only fighter we ever heard of who received a medal for 
being knocked out. Yes, it happened in Boston this summer at the Olympic 
boxing try-outs. But Purl got even when he took the measure of that rail
roader in Ashtabula, Ohio, later on. For further particulars please consult 
Trainer Burt Munliall. He has the complete detailsif hell give them out.
ATHLETIC OFFICE IN NEW GYM
Last week the Athletic Office, with all of its belongings and occupants,' 
including Cfraduate Manager of Athletics Clarence Overend, Assistant Mana
ger A1 Irwin and Miss Klea M. Brainard, moved over to the new gymnasium 
where more spacious quarters are to be had. Room 139 in Industries looks 
deserted now, and it will be quite a while before the old-timers become' 
familiar with the change. But eventually it will be seen that the move was 
one in the right direction, inasmuch is it will make things much more con
venient for all concerned.
The Adventure of Work.
We are in grave danger in tin 
days of dividing life Into two iiitui-lj buT/atlraS
unrelated portions, and the true fifnc --------------------
tion of play as something that is es 
sentially creative and life-renewing ii. 
the fullest sense is being forgotten 
The best work must ever have In it tin 
spirit of play; that Is, the spirit oi 
adventure. Great work, as unothei 
writer has said, is play itself.Cap
Argus.
GET INTO ACTIVITIES, PLEBES
Take an inventory of yourself and find out just what talents you may 
have and then choose the activity in which you belong. You will find out 
soon that unless you get into some activity you will miss a large part of 
dollege life. We might suggest that you ask your senior counsellor for 
advice along this line. Remember, we are all working for the good of Car
negie. The Tartan and the Puppet need reporters, the various branchos of 
athletics need players, assistant managers, and so on. Dont delay, but get
Imagination Always Working.
A man does not succeed in business 
by the ordinary virtues catalogued 
by Samuel Smiles, but by the extraor
dinary qualities of vision and imagina
tion; and you cant tie imagination 
down to office hours.
FACULTY IS SUBJECTED
TO MANY CHANGES
Secrets of the Earths Crust.
A very delicate piece of apparatus 
which can be used for divining the 
presence of metals under the ground ' 6raj studies, 
has been invented. A mass of heavy 
ore, even If burled, affec.s the pull of 
gravity on the instrument._____________
(Continued From Page One) 
Other appointments in the several 
colleges and the Division of Genera! 
Studies are announced as follows: 
College of Engineering, Dr. Harry 
Seitz, a graduate and former in' 
structor at the University of Penn
sylvania, as instructor in Physical 
Chemistry; John Lyman Sheehan, a 
graduate of Macalester College and 
a practical chemist, as instructor of 
Chemistry; Louis W. Huber, a grad
uate of the University of Iowa and a 
mine ventilation engineer, as in
structor in the Department of Metal
lurgical Engineering, and A. C. Far
rell, assistant professor Commercial 
Engineering, transferred from GenCraig Barber Shop
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
DANIEL AND CICERO 
Proprietors
Ye Old Schenley j 
Lunch
The place where all good fel
lows meet and enjoy a good 
ideal.
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
College of Industries: Daniel E.
Drummey, a compositor and former 
instructor of printing, as instructor 
to typography in the Department of 
Printing; John V. Foster, a graduate 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
as instructor in the Department of 
iMa&hifliery Production, and Leroy 
Everett, B. S., Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, instructor In Electrical 
equipment.
College of Fine Arts: William W. 
Gilchrist, Jr., a well, known painter, 
as associate professor in the Depart
ment of Painting and Illustration; 
Russell Taber Hyde, architect and 
airt critic, of Boston, as associate 
professor in the Department of Arch 
itecture; Luther S. Lashmit, a graduCOLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
ji|hammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
setts Institute of Technology, as In 
structor in Mathematics; and Miss 
Francos H. King, Instructor Modern 
Languages.
Jai addition to the appointments to 
tho regular faculty, ten collogo grad
uates have been awarded Fellow
ships In the Collogo of Engineering 
to undertake roseach studies in min
ing and in metallurgy in coopera
tion with the United States Bureau 
of Minos. Under, tho direction of 
the Department of Co-operative Min
ing Courses, the following have 
been named to conduct research In
vestigations of eoal mining probloms: 
William W. Dartnell of 3150 Landis 
street, Corliss Station, Pittsburgh, a 
graduate of Carnogle institute of 
Technology; Mark S. Downes of 
Buickhannon. W. va., a graduate of 
Carnegie Institute of Technologyi; 
Charles L. Dodge of Fall River, 
Mass., and Benjamin L. Lubelsky, 
of Chicago, 111., graduates of the 
University of Illinois; ltoinaldo Do 
Chicohis of Clairton, Pa., a graduate 
of Pennsylvania State College; and 
Joseph H. I-Iayner of Cohoes, N. Y., 
a graduate of Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute.
The following have been named 
by the Department of Metallurgy, as 
Research Fellows to conduct the 
first program of metallurgical stud
ies in co-operation with the Buroau 
of Mines, and the iron and steel 
industries of Pittsburgh: Herbert
S. Karch of 1408 Wightnian street, 
Pittsburgh, a graduate of the night 
courses at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology: Wayne L. Cockrell of 
Dayton, Ohio, a graduate of CincinJIMMY ANDERSONSCHOOL FOOTBALL RALLY
SCHEDULED FOR FRIDAY)
The entire student body Is request-1 
ed to parade to tlio football field at | 
1:30 Friday afternoon for the pur
pose of practising cheers for the game 
on Saturday. Lots all turn out and 
make this tho best rally ever. The 
l'otball team this year will need 
more help than over from the stu
dent body, and no bettor help could 
be given than whole-hearted cheeriug. If we show tho old fight, tho 
team will.
STUDENTS MUST USE 
NEW ENTRANCE TO BOWL
LINEUP FOR OPENING 
GAME NOT CERTAIN
Dayton University is Sure to 
Cause Trouble For Stef
fen's Proteges
Jimmy Anderson, well known, aiid 
of illustrious memory to all follow
ers of Carnegie football has been 
appointed Plebe football coach. Un
like Wally Steffon, Jimmy is not bosieged by anxious reportors asking 
about the toams chances, etc. But 
they never do hound tho Plobo 
coach.
Howsoever, Jimmy is not saying 
anything but is goiug ahead and 
making up a toarn which is going 
to bo just as clovor an aggregation 
as ever roprosonted Carnegie Toch 
as a reserve team or as a Fresh
man team. This team is going to 
bo good, and they will know lota of 
fooball after a fall with Jimniy.
Tho student body is well pleased 
with liis solectlon, and is looking 
forward to tho Froshmau soason 
with almost ;is much intorost as is 
being shown in tho varsity schodulo. 
And from all Indications they will not 
be disappointed. Tho Plobos are go
ing to malco a name for thomaolvos. 
Good luck, Andy.
Honor Not All Gutcnuers'a.
Printing Is said lo have been Intro, 
dticcd to tho world Aug. M, 1487. John 
Gutenberg stands at tho head of tho 
early typographers, supported by the 
genius of Sehoeffer and the generous 
patronage of Faust. Gutonborg used 
only blocks, and to ScWffer Is due 
the movable typo cast from matrices. 
Caxton, who introduced tho art Into 
England, bogan life as a trader, but 
learned printing at Cologne. The first 
printed book on record Is The Psal
ter," which John Faust and Schooffer 
published at Mot CU in 1437.
Several changes liavo been made at 
tho Carnogio Bowl this summer, 
among thorn boiug tho now training 
quarters in the basoment of Mar
garet Morrison Building, readjust
ment of the fence, and new en
trances to the Hold. Tho student 
outrance will be behind the Margarot 
Morrison near the tennis courts, and 
all students are urged to use this 
outrance to all of tho games. The 
entrance botweon the Practice House 
and tho now cafeteria building, 
which was formerly tho old Field' 
House, will bo used ror general ad
mission by the outsido public. Gate! 
No. 1 will bo the main outrance to 
tho -rosorved soctiou, while Gato 
No. 2 will bo used for outrance to 
reserved sections 5 and G. Gate] 
No. 3 is tho players outrance, anil I 
is not to ho used by tho studonts 
or the public. The studonts will 
use tho bleachers in the student 
cheering section in tho vicinity of 
tho fifty yard lino, so that thoy will 
have tho cliolco seats.
Graduato Manager of Athlotlcs 
Clarence Over end, wishes to an
nounce to tho administration, faculty 
and studonts that tbolr soason pass 
books will bo honored at all homo 
games for gonoral admission. For 
all games played in tho Carnogio 
Bowl tho book will rocolvo ono dol
lar ($1.00) crodit toward a rosorvod 
seat.
8trange Idoao Rogardlng the Moon.
Mityau, tho moon, was a native cat, 
according to the belief of some Aus
tralians, which fell In love with some 
ono elses wife, and was driven away, 
to wander ever since. In,China the old 
man of tho moon Is known as Yuoloa, 
and holds In his bunds the reins of 
marriage among mortals. The future 
hu.sbund and wife aro tied together 
with an invisible silken cord, which Is 
only severed at death.
ate of Carnegie Tech, and a former 
instructor, who will return after a 
year's absence as an instructor in! nati University; Joseph W. Campbell, 
the Department of Architecture; j of Duquesne, Pa., and Ernest N. 
Miss Doris E. Myers, of Munhall^ Bauer of Butler, Pa., graduates of 
Pa., a graduate of the Department of j Pennsylvania State College.
Costume Economics in the Margaret! Faculty promotion in effect this 
Morrison Carnegie College, who will,1 Tear are announced as follows: 
serve as costume mistress in the! Chester M. Wallace, from associate 
Department of Drama; and William : professor to professor in the DeN. Goodridge, Massachusetts Norma1. < partment of Drama; B. Iden Payne, 
Art School, instructor in Drama. | from visiting professor to professor 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col-j In the Department of Drama; H. K. 
lege: Miss Hallie Walker Hyde, for- Kirk-Patrick, and Leo T. Lawler,
merly associate professor in Home | from instructors to assistant profesEconomics at the University of Ida- sors of English; Frederick C. Swanho, as assistant professor in the De-j-sn, from instructor to assistant propartment of Household Economics; j fessor of History and Political SciMiss Rachel Stone, a graduate ofi enee; Frank W. Moses, from inSimmons College, as Instructor in| structor to assistant professor of 
the Department of Household Eco-| Physical Education; Borthold F. 
nomic8; Miss Mary D. Heilig, a grad- Hastings, from assistant professor to 
uate of Carnegie Institute of Tech- associate professor of Structures, 
nology, as assistant in the Depart- Department of Architecture; John
How Diamonda Are Teotid.
The geologlcnl survey suys that the 
ordinary tests to determine the genu 
Ineness of a diamond are to test Its 
specific gravity, hardness and refrac
tive index. When further proof Is de
sired the stone is burned in an atmos
phere of hydrogen. An ordinary fire 
will not affect a diamond If only the 
atmosphere of the air is present. Dia
monds are the hardest substance 
known.
ment of Science.
Division of General Studies: Chris
tian Bukema, a graduate of Spring
field College, as instructor of Phys
ical Education; Miss Hazel Knight, 
a graduate of Columbia University, 
as instructor in Educational Psychol
ogy; James Le Grand, a civil engiBlachall, from Instructor to acting 
head of the Forge Shop.
Returning Grad.Why are all those 
students wearing tortoise shell 
glasses?
StudeThey ruined their eyes dur
ing short-sklrt and rolled-sock season. 
Owl.
Happy Men.
I had been working in my garden. 
The sun was just below the horizon 
and the dew was already on the smooth 
sreen walks bordered by sweet-smelling 
roses and carnations. The stillness of 
the evening was broken only by the 
whistling of a blackbird. I sat down 
on a rude seat I had formed beneath 
an old tree, and, us I thought of the 
fruits and plants that were ripening 
around me, I exclaimed to myself, 
How happy, If they knew It, are they 
that till the around.William BarneH.
Our Own Time.
A genuine love of your own time Is 
the recognition, In which you meet In 
It, of those best moments which crave 
to he made acccsslble even for the 
remotest of ages following.John 
Erskine.
8ure to Come.
Mos all mcn got a moment, o re
morse comln some lime." sald di ar
enai Eph, rumlnatlvely, "but yoall 
got t admlt hit usuali.) come aftah 
yr glt sumpn To your hurt feeling. 
Klchmon! Tlm^-f
All Non-Degroo and Short Courso 
men will attend a mooting of tho NonDegree Association In tho Industries 
assonibly room on Wodnosday after
noon at 4:30. Tho purpose of tho 
mooting hi to nominate ofilcors for 
tho yoar. The prosldont and the secrotary will bo chosen from members 
of tho second yoar class and tho vlco 
prosldont and the treasurer will bo 
chosen from mombors of tho Incom
ing class. Tho Non-Degree Associa
tion combines the class organization 
for both first and second year nondogroo. First yoar men are expected 
to attend or to send in a written ex
cuse for absonco. Failure to do this 
will bo punishable by trial. The col
lege activities for which non-dogroo 
men are eligible will be fully ex
plained and questions regarding plobo 
regulations will be answered.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
TECH POCKET 
BILLIARD PARLOR
FORBES, NEAR CRAIG 
Jerry, Manager.
MEN'S STYLE SHOP
Conaors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
After several weeks in training 
tho Carnogio football team gradually 
begins to shape itself into some 
definite sort of an aggregation. Head 
Couch Wally Steffen and his assist
ants, Bob Waddell and Dr. Marks, 
have about docldod on tho lineup to 
be used to start tho game against 
Dayton on Saturday. Tho brickfield 
will doubtless bo composed of Bat* 
tiiui at quarterback, Beede at lullback, and Donohoe and Captain New
man at tho halves. Munby soeui3 
to have tho call at center, Cass and 
Purl Anderson at tho guards, Ben 
Krislof and Yoder at the tackles, 
and Mefort and liable ends. This 
combination is a speedy, powerful 
ono, and knows a groat deal of foot
ball. It should be fully as strong 
as the team last year, though tho 
stars lost since that time apparently 
left a gaping holo in the Tartan out
fit. While tho substitutes this year 
will not bo as good as in former 
years on tho whole, Coach Steffen 
has such men as Wortenberger, 
Guthrie, Goodwin, Mohrman and 
others to insert Into the game at 
any time. It might be possible that 
Goodwin will get a chance to start 
at ono of the ends in tho event that 
Moforts injured back does not re
spond to treatment In time for the 
game Saturday. Howovor, Coach 
StellV-n might make last minute 
shifts, and tho liuoup will not be 
known until Saturday.
Llttlo is known at tills time con
cerning the toarn that Dayton will 
bring hero, though it is rumored that 
thoir lino Is hoavy and fast, while 
tho backfiold Is composed of tall, 
rangy, powerful mien. Furthermore, 
Dayton is coachod by a couplo of 
former Notre Damo stars, and will 
doubtless use an attack somewhat 
similar to that uisod by Coach 
ltockno, tho ruinous moutor of the 
Fighting Irish. So that it boglns tfl 
look as though tho Tartans will 
have their hands full in tho open
ing gumo.
Tho football schodulo follows:
Soptombor 27Dayton University, 
Carnogio Bowl.
October 4Thiol, Carnogio Bowl.
Octobor 11Tolodo University, 
Carnogio Bowl.
October 18Waah-Joff, there.
October 26Pitt, Forb06 Field.
Nonwibor 1Western Maryland, 
Carnogio Bowl.
Novombor 8Ponn State, thoro.
November lfi- Permanently open.
November 22 -Quantico Marines, 
Forbes Field.
November 27...No game.
Novombor 20 -Notro Dame, Forbes 
Field.
Who tho Jagollona Wore.
Tho Jagellons were a dynasty tlmt 
reigned over Lithuania, Poland, Hun
gary and Bohomla. Tho line began 
with Jagollou, who becamo king of Po
land as LadlshiH III or V In 12100, and 
ended with Slglmnund IL, who died In 
1572,
Craig Restaurant
Tho place whore all tho fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
SEE MARTIN
FOIl GOOD THINGS TO BAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG
M. PASQUINELLI
WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
NEW EELLOWS 
AT TECH
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
THE ONLY
RLIT44FO VTOOY 
. XoG,o1M RVGy^
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 6149 Near Forbeo
THE FRATERNITY 
OF BUSINESS
Beidn now to form tho uocliitiona 
and lutili 1S that will ervo you when 
you enter tho buHlnem world. A 
bunk account, Hide- from tho tanI hits value, fuminhcH experience 
und contnctu which will operato to 
your ndvnntHKO in later year.
'ilio pontonai Inlerettt of Mellon of
ficer In the financial welfare of 
dnpottitoni In ono of the oul>itan<lln({ 
olmracterlntlcn of tho Institution. 
Our experience und btiHlnoiiii Jiuliimant r. re at your nerv Ice.
Capital ami Murphia $12,000,000.00
Mellon National BankP i 11 s b h, Pa.
X,vXX*X*X~X*X~X^vX-vX*-X*vX,X,vv*X*X*vvvX,*XX*-:*X,XX"v *XMX
325 S. Craig Street Near Forbes----TECH TAILOR
\

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE) FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24. 1924
ALUMNI PAGE
SCOTCH PROF. NEW 
MATH. INSTRUCTOR
Prof. Jacks, Edinburgh Man, 
Also to Assist in New 
Research Bureau
David Jack, of Scotlund, 1 Conner 
Instructor at the University of Edin
burgh, has boon 'engaged uh Assistant 
Professor of Mathematics. Professor, 
Jack, who him speclftlifccd In the Btudy 
of mathematical physics and X-ray 
work, will TT19E glvo part or ills tlmo 
at tho local liiBtiluLion an an TT9919o 
ant In the recently established Bureau of Metallurgical Research.
Preliminary nogotlatlonB In the appolntment of ProfeBHor Jack were 
made In 8eolland thlB summer when 
President 13a ker of Carnogio Tech 
met him In Edinburgh. V19 connec
tion with the now Bureau of Metal
lurgical IleHoarch, completes for the 
tlmo being, tho personnel appoint
ments In this department.
Professor Jack 19 a native of Scot
land and was graduated from the Uni. 
verslty of Edinburgh in 11)20 with 13. 
Sc. and M. A. degree in Physic, his 
studies being interrupted in 1 !U 8*1010, 
however, when he served in the Royal 
Garrison Artillery. Following his 
graduation as a student under Pro
fessor Whittaker, widely known Eng
lish Mathematician, he was appointed 
as an asHlntant in the Department of 
Physics to teacli undor tho supervi
sion of Profosflor 13arkla, a Nobel 
prizo winner In Physics. Professor 
Jack ha served In this capacity nnfll 
hiH acceptance of an appointment to 
tho Carnegie staff.
Printing Dept. Greets 
_New Typographist
Daniel E. Drummey Has 
Fifteen Years Experience
The appointment, of Daniel E. 
Drummoy, of Marlboro, ICSAQ an In
structor of Typography in the Depart
ment of Printing In tho Collogo of In
dustrie, in nnnouncod by tho authoritloB at Carnogio Institute of Tech
nology. Mr. Drummey, who has had 
llftoon years experience as a printer 
and teacher of printing, will begin 
his work here next month.
Tho newcomer 1 a graduate of 
Marlboro High School, Marlboro Businoim College, and the U. T. A. School 
of Printing. From 1000 until 3017, he 
wan connect,6d with various printing 
establishments in Now I'Jnglnnd a a 
compositor and as a compositor and 
foreman on the New York Journal, 
the llrtston Cllobo, the B.oston Post, 
tho Worcester Labor Nows, and tho 
Worcester Gnzotto. From 1017 to 
101!I lin wan engaged an a teacher el' 
printing and typography In the Mc
Kinley High School In Washington, 
I), <,, and In tho following year ,he 
filled a similar capacity In !ln< Want 
Intermediate School at .lackaoii, Midi, 
During the past two years, Mr. Drummey has boon connected with the 
Movormnont Printing Oflloo In Wash
ington, l), and tiio Washington, D, 
C. Dally News.
Campus Cut-Out.
She looked at. me 
and 1 looked at her 
and he mulled nt me 
and l smiled at her 
and 9E I went over 
and talked to her.
She was tin? kind of a girl 1 had al
ways road about but never seen be
fore.
She had a couple of eyes j, 
that made me feel crinkly 
on the back of my neck 
and nervous in the palms of my 
hands
and sho had lips like the design on 
a Valentine 
and the kind of a complexion 
that they write billboards about 
And she was nice to me 
and I liked her a lot 
and then I discovered the thing 
, that had been shining in my eyes 
wasnt love, but 
waR a big solitaire *
And so I left 
I and went home
and insulted my roommate
and took a bath
And sworo off women forever!
College Humor.
Beautiful Thoughts.
Fully to understand a g**ind nwl 
beautiful thought requires, perhaps, lu
timeli time as to conceive It..iouhert.
LEARN TO DANCE
...at the...
Jacques School of Dancing 
Crnlg and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday ovohinga. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This Is a School 
Not a public .dance hall.
* Oakland Savings & s 
I Trust Co. i
j* Member Federal Reserve y 
I- System. .j.
 Capital - -.......................$300,000.00
 Surplus...........................$300,000.00 
 Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 X
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
FELLOWSHIP AWAIU)I;I)
TO NIGHT GRADUATI;AMERICAN SCIENCE || 
GAINS RECOGNITION i
Herbert S. Karch, a graduato of 
Carnogio, and Joseph W. Campbell, 
a graduato of Penn Stato, aro 
among tho four collogo graduates 
appointed as Research. Follows to 
undertake Important studies in met
allurgical research, at tho institution 
during tho coming yoar, in co-opera
tion with tho Pittsburgh Station of 
the United States Bureau) of Minos. 
Tho appointment of Karch Js re 
garded as an honor of special sig
nificance bocauso ho rocolved his 
training in tho evening courses, win
ning his B. S. dogreo in Metallurgic
al Engineering last Juno.
Tho problopis or study, which 
wore Boloctod by an advisory board 
of stool1 manufacturers and metallur
gical engineers of the Pittsburgh 
district, will bo investigated as a 
roBult of tho rocont arrangement de 
volopod byi tho Institute of Tech
nology and tho Bureau of Mines un
der which definito programs of rosoarch studios aro to bo mado each 
yoar for tbio benefit of tho metal in
dustries.
Kurch will bo assigned to a Sen
ior investigator representing tho 
Pittsburgh Station of the United 
States Buroau of MineB and will 
study "Corrosion of metals duo to 
high pressure steam."
The metallurgical research work 
at tho local institution this year 
doubtless will bo watched with con
siderable Interest by Pittsburgh 
stoel Industrio, sino it is known 
that Dr. D. A. Lyon, chief Metallur
gist of the United States Buroau of 
Mine has assured President Thomas 
S. Baker that tho Buroau of Mines 
will concentrato ita metallurgical
work on iron and toel at tho Pitts
burgh station if sufficient encourage
ment is offered. The preliminary
negotiations preparatory to tho final 
agreement and assignumont of proloms appnronttly have aroused much 
enthusiasm in tho Pittsburgh district 
whose iron and stool manmfacturors 
Toroseo an unusual opportunity for 
the motal industries in tho ovent. 
that co-operativo research in metal
lurgy is concentrated here. Tho ar 
rangomonts in connection with tho 
omploymont of Research Follows
havo already rocolvod tho financial 
mipport of Bomo of tho stool com
panies represented on tho advisory 
board.
Alumni Fed. Sponsors 
Dance For Freshmen
Opening Event of Season 
Held in New Gym
Tho opening dance of the Honson 
to welcome tho now studonts at. Car
nogio wa hold last Saturday night 
In tho new gymnasium. The dance 
HeTTS held tinder the auspices of the 
Alumni Federation, with the Alumnae 
Annodatimi of Margaret Morrison In 
direct charge.
The honor guests of the occasion 
wore Dr, T. S. Maker, INI bis Mary 11, 
Breed, Miss Mary Louise Mrown, Mr. 
and Mra, W, V. Mlnghnm. Mr, and 
Mrs. I1, P. Day, Mr. and Mrs.  11.
Connelly, Mr. and Mrs. I''. .1, Hartman, 
Mr, and Mrs. I, W. llirlg, Mr. and 
Mra. .1, T. Morris. Mr. and Mrs, Win. 
10. Mott, Mr. and Mrs. A. \V. Tarbell, 
Mr, and Mrs, II. K. McGoodwIn, Mr. 
and Mrs. Allan Bright and Mr. Ciondenning Kooblo.
Quite a large crowd was In attend 
anco and the affair was capably han
dled by the committee In charge. Miss 
Gladys Sloppy, chairman, was assist
ed by Miss Lois McCombs. Miss Anna 
S. Ilibbs, Miss Louise Irvin, MIsa 
Mary I-Ieillg, Mrs. Jane Markoll, Mrs. 
Mildred Spencer. C. L. Comfort and 
Kenneth Tilbrook.
Tho men's lloor of the new gymna,- 
sium utilized and the Teehsons peppy 
orchestra provided the music which 
made the evening a very enjoyable 
one to the new people on the campus
TELESCOPE
MISS HYDE JOINS DEPT. 
HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS
! i 
U
!
* i 4___ 
! APPOINT NEW PROF. 
FOR ARCHITECTURE
Dr. Baker Reports a Growing 
Respect in Europe To
wards U. S. Research
A growing respect among Euro
pean scientists for the advancement 
In research that America has al
ready mado and Is likely to make 
In tho future was reported by Dr. 
Baker, when ho returned last month 
from a two-month's tour abroad. In 
the field of physics particularly," he 
said, "English, Fronch and Scandina
vian Bclontlats readily admitted that 
tho United StatOB has mado consid
erable progress. Predictions were 
freely mudo to mo that this country 
will bo loader in the near future in 
important research diBcovorio."
Dr. Bakers trip, which was made 
lurgely In tho interests of tho newly 
established Bureau of Metallurgical 
Research at Carnogio Tech, took him 
to visits in Franco, England, Scot
land, Sweden, Norway and Denmark. 
In Franco ho was a guost of Sir 
Ernest Rutherford, tho eminent Eng
lish physicist, and in Groat Britain, 
ho met and discussed research pro
gress with famous men of affairs 
and leaders of scientific research at 
the University of Cambridge, Uni
versity of Glasgow, tho National Re
search Laboratories and the Univer
sity of Edinburgh.
Wliilo in Scotland Dr. Baker was 
also tho guest at Sklbo Castle of 
Mrs. Carnegio, widow of the founder 
of Carnogio Tech. Mrs. Carnegie, ac
cording to Dr. Baker, signified a deep 
intorost in tho welfare of tho local 
institution.
Ho also visited tho leading tech
nical institutions in Stockholm, 
Christiana and Copenhagen. In the 
Danish capitol ho visited tho scientiHe laboratories conducted by Prof. 
Nil Bohr, tho Danish physicist and 
Nobel Prize Winner who lectured 
here lnt year.
The steel business in both England 
and tho Scandinavian countries were 
reported by Dr. Baker to bo in a 
doprosBod condition. In commenting 
upon the Dawos plan for tho pay
ment ol? reparations, Dr. Bakor Indi
cated that tliore seomed to bo a dif
ference of opinion among tho finan
cial experts of tho countries conenrned as to the practicable opera
tion of tho plan, although there it is 
unanimously agreed among European 
exports that practically any plan 
having t.lio whole hearted co-oporatlon of Europe is likely to moot with 
success.
Readjustment to hard work after 
a vacation is always difficult, but in 
tho case of returning to college 
after a ouminer of relaxation, case, 
comparative mental relief, there is a 
keen joy in seeing again tho friends 
we have made at Carnegie. Our 
friends at Carnegio Tech are bound 
to us by a tie stronger than that of 
an ordinary acquaintance because we 
are striving in a common cause, and 
one in which tho Alumni is closely 
umulagamated to Bpread far and wide 
tho fame of Dear Old Tech.
There are many changes on the 
CampuBtho actual utilization of the 
New Gym, the knowledge that the 
Tunnel really exists even though It 
existanco cannot be detected with 
tho naked eye, and the procuring of 
tho service of many new teachers 
/who como bo well recommended 
from all partB of the country and 
oven from abroad. The coming year
at Carnegio shall be a profitable j 
one. It must be profitable if the 
students and Alumni co-operate. The; 
Clan are growing rapidly. They are 
increased each year, and by a larger 
percentage of new members from 
the claBBes which are graduated.
Two of the most important duties \ 
of the clan is to keep in touch with > 
its Alma Mater, and to let the stu-! 
dent body know what the Clan is^ 
doing. The students are greatly in - i 
terested in Clan events, and they 
'are unxious to know what is going j 
on in the Old IlOme Town. Keep; 
them posted.
Your classmates are pleased to 
hear what you are doing, and there i 
is no better medium for communica-! 
tlon than through the Alumni Page 
.of The Carnegie Tartan. Let us1 
know about you, and tell us what 
you are doing since you left Car
negie.
DRAMATIX APPEARS IN 
A PRINCE THERE WAS
Miss Lois Shore, of the Stuart Wal
ker company of Cincinnati, is now ap 
pearlng in "A Prince There Was." 
Miss Shore is a native of Indiana, and 
a graduato of Carnegie Tech. Her 
splendid delineation of juvenile parts 
1ms won her a prominent place in her 
chosen profession. She made her de
but in New York, in "The Mob," in 
winch she took a juvenile part. Her 
first real success came about two 
years ago when she was playing in 
the production of Miss Lulu Bett. 
Miss Shore is planning to appear in 
vaudeville during the coming winter.
If every woman s face was hor for
tuno some would be arrested for conn, 
torfoltlng.
COACHES BUILD NEW TEAMS
IN TRAINING CAMP
(Continued From Page One.) 
lined up and that which followed was 
very exciting. The freshman .team 
with such men as Muss of New Cas
tle, Langiitt of Washington, Sebas
tian of Youngstown, McClellan from 
Oklahoma, Cowan of Lancaster, and 
Mol/.inger of Cleveland, gave the var
sity a fight which it did not expect. 
Much is expected from the freshman 
team this year, and the future ap
pears unusually bright with such 
prospects.
Tho first day of registration saw the 
close of the training camp, and the 
coachos, managers and anyone who 
had anything to do with it, should be 
heartily congratulated on the success 
of the training camp for the present 
soason. Tho result of camp and every
day practice is bound to come to tho 
surface later in the season.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
CLAN DIRECTORY
Willing to Help the Needy.
A famous woman teacher, eighty 
years old, was sitting on the veranda 
of a college dormitory in her wheel 
chair. A student had just brought her 
some ice water in her silver mug and 
the teacher had finished drinking it 
when some tourists came up, saw her 
sitting there holding out her cup, and 
they dropped a half dollar in it. Imag
ine their feelings when they discovered 
who the beggar was!
Cleaning Pressing
The Schenley~ Tailor Co.
420 SOUTH CRAIG 
Next, door to gents' furnishers. 
TAILOR FOR THE STUDENTS 
Wo do llrst-olnHK altering for 
reasonable prices.
Prompt Delivery Service. 
Schonley 1538 
Dyeing Repairing
Tech Shoe 
Repairing
Goodyear Welt System , 
Try us first.
4523 FORBES ST. i 
Near Craig
BALTIMORE- President, Arthur AV. Crownover, Maryland Glass 
(lorporation, Bromo Seltzer 'Power Building; Vice President, 
(I, S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments. Cathedral and Mill berry 
Streets; Secretary and Treasurer, P. H, Dickey, 3318 Contin
ental Building.
BOSTON - Secretary, John l<\ .Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollas
ton, Mass.
BIII'TAU) Iresident, K. (I. Townsend, 22 Bidwell Parkway; Vice 
Iresident, B. A. button, 288 Saranac Avenue; Secretary, and 
Treasurer, Robert, Porter, 307 Porter Avenue.
Cl 11 CACO- President, 1. B. Patterson, Rovinio, HI.; Vice President, 
Mrs. C. R iYlncCaughoy, 515 Vine Street, Park Ridge, III.; 
Secretary and Treasurer, O. Lundy, 5475 Kimbark Avenue; 
Chicago, III.
CINCINNATI -Secretary, J. W. Batman, care Johns-Manville Co.
shWa,a12nif -President, George A. Ebeling, Newman-Stern Build
ing; Vice President, Mrs. M. J. Montgomery, 492 .East; 308th 
Street;; Vice President, Albert May, 12563 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Lundeen, 32722 Barrington 
Avenue.
CONNECTICUTPresident. R. AV. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
Hartford, Conn. ; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 41 Kenneth 
Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer. K. AV. Fin
lay, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
DAYTONPresident, Fred Flader, 2505 West Riverview Avenue; 
Vice President, F. AY. Heckert, 1127 Grafton Avenue ; Secre
tary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Grafton Avenue.
DETROITPresident, AV. Ray Williams, care Westinghouse E. & M. 
Company, 1535 Sixth Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. Ii. 
Miles, Miles-Appleby Company, 4612 AVoodward Avenue.
ERIESecretary and Treasurer, Edwin Gross, care llammermill 
Paper Company.
HARRISBURGPresident, John G. Todd, 201,  North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.; A:iee President, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 AVoodbine Street, Harrisburg, Pa.; Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 20V* 
North Queefi Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, G. D. Whitney, 
2604 Derry Street, Harrisburg, Pa.
IIUNTJNGTON, AV. AA.Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, E.
JOIINSTOAVNSecretary, John AY. Fritz, 215 John Street.
I LOS ANGELESSecretary and Treasurer, Frederick Kindi, 2201 
Mineral Avenue.
j NEW YORK -President, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, AVestchester Park, Tuckahoe, S. Ar. ; Vice President, M. L. Patterson, 
80 Palisade Avenue, Bogota, N. ,1.; Secretary and Treasurer, 
R. M. Cretzler, National Supply Corporation, 120 Broadway.
NORFOLK President, T. I). Fitzgibbon, 831 Holt Street; Secretary, 
James W. Phillips, (ill Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIA President, Paul W. lOmmel, 5710 North Seventh 
Street : Vice President, L. K. Exline, 213 South 47th Street.; 
Secretary and'Treasurer, Dorothv E. Steinmae.her, 909 Clinton 
Street.
PlTTSBUlUJll President, Al. K. AValtou, 5838 Alderson Avenue.
SAINT LOUIS President, Paul Klingensmith, 10 Jefferson Road, 
Webster Groves, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 
Waverly Place, Webster Groves, Mo.; Secretary, Nelson F. 
Rice, 1064 Arcade Building: Treasurer, M. A. Zeller, 212S 
Railway Exchange Building.
TULSA Temporary Secretary, Arthur .1. Kerr, 1617 S. Quaker St.
WASHINGTON. D. CPresident, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street. 
N. E. ; Vice President. Miss Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, 
N. AV.: Secretary and Treasurer. A. AL Pringle, 627 Lexington 
Place, N. E.
! YOUNGSTAVNPresident, AV. X. Flanagan, 140 South Portland 
Street; Vice President, R. P. AVoodward, 165 Carroll Street: 
Secretary, L. D. AVoodworth, 2913 Southern Boulveard.
ALUMNI BUSINESS
DIRECTORIES ARE
NEARING COMPLETION
The Alumni Business Directories 
are rapidly nearing completion. Gal
ley proof has been received on prac
tically all sections and returned to 
the printer for page proof. This 
means that the directories 'should 
be completed very early in October. 
Announcement as to prices and dates 
of sale will be made in an early 
issue of The Tartan.
An important faculty appointment 
for this year at Carnegie Tech is an
nounced in the engagement of Miss 
Hallie Walker Hyde, of Brookings, 
South Dakota, as Assistant Professor 
of Household Economics, in the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College. Miss 
Hyde succeeds Miss Lillian S. Ken
nedy, who resigned to accept the ap
pointment as dean of Home Econom
ics at Bradley Polytechnic Institute 
in Peoria, 111.
Miss Hyde comes to Carnegie with 
fourteen years teaching experience in 
home economics. She is a native of 
Gary, South Dakota, and is a grad
uate of South Dakota State College 
with a B. S. degree, and of the Uni
versity of Illinois, with a B. A. de
gree in Home Economics. From 1910 
until 1913, she was instructor in Home 
Economics at South Dakota State Col
lege. For the following nine years, 
Miss Hyde taught Home Economics 
at the University of Idaho, first as in
structor, and for four years as Asso
ciate Professor. The year of 1922- 
1923 was spent in travel, and during 
the past year, she has been taking 
special studies at the University of 
Chicago.
Russell T. Hyde, Graduate of 
M. I. T. Comes Highly 
Recommended
DRAFT CIVIL ENGINEER 
FOR R.O.T.C. RIFLE TEAM
MANY ADDITIONS TO
CARNEGIE CAMPUSI
(Continued From Page One.) 
for installing additional equipment. 
The big thing to be remembered is 
that this tunnel was built at a great 
expense, and it has been built perma
nently, to take care of not only our 
present needs but also those which 
will arise in years to come. Carnegie 
men and women can well be proud of 
this addition to our campus.
Besides the improvements under 
the surface a number of changes have 
been made on the surface. On the 
lawn between Science and Industries 
two cement walks are to be placed, 
running from Woodlawn avenue to 
Machinery hall. One will be close to 
Science School and the other close 
to Industries. A cement walk will 
connect the two buildings. New en
trances for freshmen and upperclass
men are to be constructed in Science 
School. The lawns are to be well ma
nured and sowed with rye this fall. 
This will produce a pretty green 
growth during the winter. In the 
spring this growth of rye will be 
plowed under in order to form a good 
subsoil. Then it will be possible to 
have real green lawns and numerous 
beds of llowers, including some gen
uine Scotch thistles.
Asbury G. Wilson, a Junior in the 
Dept, of Civil Engineering, has been 
selected at Camp Meade, Maryland, 
to represent the Engineer Unit of the 
R.O.T.C. of the Third and Fourth 
Corps areas in the national rifle cham
pionship match to be held at Camp 
Perry, according to information re
ceived at the local institution. Wil
son was chosen with C. N. Jennings, 
of Virginia Polytechnic Institute, as 
the engineer members of the R.O.T.C. 
team of '10 men which will represent 
the Third and Fourth Corps areas. 
The Fourth Area includes Pennsyl
vania, Maryland, District of Columbia, 
and Virginia, and the Third Area in
cludes all states south of those in the 
Fourth Area.
The appointment of Wilson, who 
was Sophomore last year, was based 
on competition in which he and Jen
nings ipialifled as sharpshooters. In 
addition to the distinction of being 
represented on the team, the follow
ing students qualified as marksmen 
in the recent competition: John J.i
Murray, a Junior in Civil Engineer
ing; David A. Moskovitz, a Sopho
more in the College of Fine Arts; 
F. ii. Wagner, a Junior in Commer
cial Engineering: Norman R. Miles, 
a. junior in Civil Engineering; and 
Henry E. Klugh, Jr., a Senior in Civil 
Engineering.
The national rifle championship 
match at Camp Perry will be con
ducted during tho current month.
Russell T. Hyde, widely known in 
Boston and throughout New England 
as a teacher of art and architecture, 
has been named as Associate Pro
fessor in the Department of Architec
ture. Mr. Hydes appointment, which 
is considered at the Institute to be 
one of the most important affecting 
tho Depaitment of Architecture in re
cent years, is expected to give addi
tional strength to a departmental staff 
that is already reputed to be one of 
the strongest faculties teaching archi
tecture in the country.
The new appointee Is a native and 
resident of Waltham, Mass., and a for
mer student at Massachusetts Tech 
and several' schools of art and archi
tecture in France. His former teach
ing connections have been with the 
Brown and Nichols School, the Bos
ton School of Fine Arts and Crafts, 
and the South Boston School of Art. 
During recent years he has been en
gaged as a public lecturer on art crit
icism, and as designer of mural dec
orations for the city of Waltham.
THREE CARNEGIE MEN 
RECEIVE HIGH HONORS
Charles N. Hollingsworth, Asbury 
G. Wilson and Fred C. Hoenninger, 
were among tho 1G members of 
Company 5, of the R. O. T. C. train
ing camp at Campe Meade, Md., this 
summer, selected by the company 
officers as the honor men of the 
company.
The sixteen hpnor men constituted 
ten per cent of the company. The 
ratings to determine the selection 
of the honor men were made in ac
cordance with the following: Lead
ership, as displayed in the perform
ance of any duty; record of daily 
and weekly barracks and rifle in
spections; grades obtained in the 
work which is subject to grading; 
proficiency at infantry drill; proficiencyj at rifle marksmanship; 
military courtesy and military bear
ing; conduct and attitude.
Hollingsworth was recently award
ed a commission as a second lieu
tenant at Campe Meade having com
pleted his R. O. T. C. training at 
Carnegie and his required summer 
training camp experience. He is a 
Senior in the Department of Civil 
Engineering.
College would be a wonderful place 
if it wasnt for the classes.White 
Mule.
A
Memory Tonic
It is surprising how the ever-readiness of Eversharp prompts the 
jotting down of passing thoughts 
and factsand how quickly the 
habit of writing it down improves 
the ability for accurate remembrance
Six new features make Eversharp 
a finer writing. instrument than 
beforenon-clogging rifled tip, 
quick reloading, complete interchangeability of parts, are the most 
important.
Put a new Eversharp in yout 
pocket. And for complete prepared
ness, match it with a Wahl Pen.
Prices $1 to $45, at all dealers.
Made in the U. S. A. by 
THE WAHL COMPANY, Chicago
CsnaJian Faeton, THE WAHL COMPANY. Ltd..Toionto
The D\[ewPERFECTED
