fSBDj SKATING PARTY
j JANUARY 21ST
DUQUESNE GARDEN! 
t !
ATHLETIC BENEMTI 
JANUARY 22ND 
DIVISION OF ARTS
VOL. XV NO. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.JANUARY 19, 1921
TARTAN PASSERS DEFEATED BY W.-J. IN SPEEDY GAME
Large Crowd Out to Attend 
Opening Contest in Re-mod
eled Field House. Score 
32-23
,CAPT. HAIWMANN HURTS KNEE
VARSITY C CLUB ORGANIZED
The re-modeled Tech gym was 
opened uip last Tuesday night with 
a. game between Tech and W. & J., 
the Tartan five going down to de
feat at the hands of the Presidents, 
32 to 23. The game was fast in 
spots but neither team played con
sistently and many baskets Were 
missed from directly under the goal. 
The two teams started to play furi
ously from the first tip-off and it was 
evident the game- would be hotly, con
tested. Both fives had a very tight 
defense, hard guarding being the rule 
throughout the struggle.
This was the first time the team 
has played at home with the excep
tion of the game with Yale during 
the holidays and a large crowd was 
on hand to witness the contest. The 
game commenced at eight-thirty after 
Cy Comfort had got through play
ing Indiana Normal before the new 
balcony packed to capacity. W. & 
J. got away to a good start before 
:Tech dropped the ball through the 
basket. Tech was unable to close up 
the gap and 'the score ended at the 
: first half, 14 to 7, in favor of the 
Presidents.
The foul shooting of Carroll was a 
feature of the game.- 'He had an ex
ceptionally large number of chances 
and tossed the ball in with clock-like 
regularity, making 18 out of 21 trys. 
W. & J. refused to iplay unless the 
sidelines along the walls were played 
out, which was a handicap to the 
; Tartans, as theiy had only been play
ing the ends out all year in practice. 
Captain I-Iammann severely injured 
ill is knee, throwing it out of joint, and 
had to retire from tbe game for 
while.
W. & J.32. Tech23.
: Carroll .................F............ I-Iammann
The Varsity Letter men of the 
school have formed a club known as 
the C Club. All men who have earned 
a letter in any sport are eligible for 
the club. The purpose of the club is 
to allow men of the school to get bet
ter acquainted with each other, to en 
courage men to go out for athletics 
and to help men who do go out. The 
insignia of the organization is the 
Varsity Clan pin, the letter awarded 
by the Athletic Association. A meet
ing was held last week and a constitu
tion was adopted and officers elected. 
The officers are as follows: Harvey
Hiller, president; C. C. Brumbaugh, 
vice president; A. J. Dreux, secretarytreasurer; R. J. Doherty, recorder. All 
letter men are urged to get in touch 
with Dreux so that every man who 
is in school at the present time may 
be included with the charter members.
. Gibson 
.. Dosey 
... Lynn 
. Nichols 
Ramsey,
C. Conn ..............F................
Rjunisey ___:____C..i.........
Kaiser  ..............G...............
K Conn .......... ..G...............
SubstitutionsEilson for 
i McCandless for Kaiser, . Pittman for 
I-Iammann, M.cPhee for Gibson, Allen 
for Nichols, Good for Lynn.
Field GoalsK. Conn 2, Carroll 2.
! Eilson 2, C. Conn, Ramisey, Kaiser 
Gibson 2, Hammann 2, Dosey 1, Pitt
man 2, McPhee 2.
Foul GoalsCarroll, 18 out of 21 
Lynn, 11 out of 16; Pittman, none 
out of 1.
uFOLLIES OF 1922 FEB. 4-5
BAND IN NEED OF 
FINANCIAL BACKING
Band Refused Use of Instru
ments that Lay Idle, 
Deteriorating
STUDENTS SCARCE AT BEN.ASSEMBLY
Scholarship Awards Made. 
Jerseys and Numerals Given
BETA THETA PI WINS CUP
S.A.B. STANDARD- IZES ALL RECORDS
Treasurer to Buy Books for All 
Student Activities
COM MITTE ON ACTIVITES FEE
Much is heard about the bands of 
other colleges and much is said right 
here on the campus about the snappy 
bands of other colleges and this is true 
without a question. Very little, how
ever, is heard about Techs band of a 
commending nature, rather there is a 
good deal of adverse criticism. 'Other 
college bands, especially so this'year, 
have had unusual uniforms;, the ma
jority- of people form their opinions of 
a^band by its appearance. There is no 
doubt that a snappy appearing band 
gets away with, it better than one 
which has the ordinary uniform.
Iii 1913 seven or eight fellows got 
together to form a band. When they 
inventoried the variety'of instruments 
they could muster they found they had 
four cornets, two silent but well mean
ing alto players and a bass horn.
Gumbert was the first manager and 
his job was not easy, as there was no 
money to use. It was hot until 1915 
that it became a recognized student 
activity and was able to share in the 
Student Activities budget. Then it 
was able to procure a bass drum, 
which in itself seems to be half the 
band.
Since the band was first started Mr. 
E. G. Sullivan, better known as 
Sully, has been its director. No bet
ter man could be secured for this job 
than Sully, as he is a man of wide 
musical experience, an exceptional 
handler of men, and above all, when 
the hard work is over, can be one of 
them. To a few, the loyalty of 
Sully to tl^ie band is known and lit
tle things done by him have passed 
unnoticed. It is only right that some 
mention of his work and the extent 
to which it is appreciated be made.
(Continued on Page Three.)
The Student Council and H. G. 
Nichol, president of the Student 
Council, had good intentions, but their 
New Year resolutions did not seem to 
co-ordinate with those of the student 
Body, if the last General Assembly 
held in the Music Hall, Wednesday 
January 12, is a-good example. There 
were enough present for an audience, 
but little else.
Dean Tarbell announced the awards 
of scholarships, also presented the 
scholarship loving cup to the Beta 
Tlieta Pi fraternity,' who had 
average of 302 9-22 points of quality. 
This competition lias been limited to 
members of the Interfraternity Coun
cil, and has been a Science School cup, 
but under new arrangement the cup 
is open to all fraternities of all schools. 
Dean Tarbell also stated that the Inter
fraternity Council intended* to reorgan
ize and include all fraternities at 
school.
Jerseys and numerals were given to 
the few of the freshman football team 
who were present, by Graduate Man
ager Frank H. Haaren. Mr. Haaren 
gave an explanation of the athletic 
condition and why reserved seats were 
sold at the basket ball games. He also 
(Continued on Page Three.)
NIliHT SCIENCE MID-YEAR DANCE
GAMBOL OF THE GUILDS 
OPENED TO STUDENTS
All organizations which come under 
the control of the Student Activities 
Board must keep a record of all trans
actions as directed by the board and 
their books shall always be in a con
dition for inspection. At the las I 
meeting of the board, Wednesday 
night, January 12, it was voted that 
the treasurer be instructed to buy the 
necessary books for advertising con
tracts and for all student activities, 
and that the various activities be in
structed to keep them, to become ef
fective September, 1920.
In making all reports the organiza
tions are to present (1) balanced bank 
book and a statement from the bank, 
(2) check book stubs and canceled 
checks, (3) carbon copies of receipts 
given for all money received, (4) con
tracts for all uncollected bills for ad
vertising, (5) canceled checks and 
all books used for recording cash and 
other transactions.
The budget committee was appoint
ed as a special committee to confer 
with committees from the Athletic 
Council and the Night School Council 
with reference to the activities fee for 
next year. The board wishes to cover 
all . activities sufficiently, so that 
tagging can be done away with. The 
board also voted to pay $1.25 of the 
$2.50' to be paid a man to remove sur
plus signs. The Athletic Association 
is to pay the other half.
March 11 has been set as the date 
for the mens Junior Prom, which will 
be held iu the ball room of the Hotel 
Seheuley.
Preliminary tickets are to be put on 
sale today at ?3. This will apply on 
the cost of the final ticket, the total 
cost being S.50. By the sale of these 
tickets the committee hopes to obtain 
an estimate of the attendance. Seniors, 
Juniors and alumni and men having 
spent three years iu college are eligi
ble. Tickets may be had from 
Blesch, Unzicker, Mills and McGill in 
Science; Huff and Harding in In
dustries; Butke, Cliesterman and 
Sclioeff in Design.'
TECHS ATHLETIC DRIVE TO PROVIDE FOR EQUIPMENT
W. & J. Refuses to Play Unless 
Field is Re-surfacedVar
sity Men May Prepare Field
Name Selected for Frolic to be 
Given by Industries 
Men, Jan. 28
OVERALLS, APRONS REQUIRED
ARTS SEVENTH ANNUAL 
COSTUME BALL FRIDAY
Building Closed Friday Six 
oclock; Activities Start 
at 9:30
Only a short time to wait, and tli3 
mcst astonishing, amazing, astound
ing, stupefying, staggering, electrify
ing, startling, unexpected, petrifying, 
fantastic bizarre, exotic comedietta 
imaginable is to be produced by the 
Margaret Morrison Junior class.
The chance to witness such an un
usual .affair comes but once in a life
time, yea just once. But to accommo
date the great numbers, which are 
sure to attend, it has been decided, by 
the management, to give two perform
ances, the dates being on the 4th and 
5th of February.
Words fail to give a vivid enough 
description of this Folly. One must 
see it to appreciate it. Therefore, set 
aside one-or both, of these nights, on 
which to throw all cares to the winds 
and see the unsurpassed Maggie 
Murph chorus and the star head
liners.
Keep this quiet, but its whispered 
that you will hear all. about yourself 
and friend, in this production, but any
way just keep watching the Tartan for 
further' details.
INTER-FRATERNITY DORMITORY 
BASKET BALL LEAGUE BEGINS
A Mid-Year Dance will be given by 
the members of the Science Night 
School on Saturday evening, January. 
22. The affair will be held in the 
Union and to celebrate the closing of 
the first semester of the Night year. 
The Design Orchestra will furnish 
music and the tax for. the event will 
be one dollar.
THE PATOMAC CLUB
The Patomac Club held its first 
meeting of 1921 last Friday evening, 
January 14. After a short business 
session, stunts were put on and an 
enjoyable time was made possible by 
the smokes and refreshments pro
vided by the social committee.
The club will continue to hold reg
ular monthly meetings and are plan
ning to hold a social dance in the near 
future.
All plans for the Gambol of the 
Guills, as thie annual frolic of the 
students of the Industries Division 
will be called this year, have been 
made.  The affair will be held in the 
new dance hall in the Langley Labora
tory, and will open that place for so
cial events on January 28.
Attendance to this dance will not be 
restricted only to members of the Di
vision of Industries, as has previously 
been the case. In order to help along 
the break-down of divisional line, the 
committee has decided that while the 
tickets last, students in any of the 
other divisions may purchase the same 
under the same conditions as pre
scribed for Industries men.
All couples attending must appear 
on the floor in costume, the men wear
ing overalls and the girls aprons, the 
large bungalow or Mother Hubbard 
type preferred.
The members from the electrical de
partments promise a few surprises in 
the line of lighting and effects. A very 
unique program has been designed by 
the printers and a dainty luncheon will 
be served during the evening.
Last years frolic was one of the 
most enjoyable of the many dances 
given on the campus last year, and all 
indications point'to the one this year 
surpassing previous ones.
The number of tickets have been 
limited to 200, and while they last they 
may be obtained from any of the 
sellers, a list of which is posted on 
the bulletin boardi of Industries.
Preparations for the Arts- Ball aro 
nearing completion. The halls are 
rapldliyi losing their Identity and are 
being converted into the Mystic 
realm of enchantment. Brushes ami 
easels have been put away and every 
one is busy doing their bit to mako 
tho event a success. Six oclock Fri
day evening tho building will bo 
closed to anyone not possessing 
pass. About 9:30 a special novel stunt 
will start the.ball rolling. There will 
be dancing until midnights Lhon time 
out for stunts and refreshments in the 
sculpture room;'. Tho entertainment 
will be chiefly singing and dancing 
by division talent. t)anclng will re
sume until 4 o'clock. This will mark 
the close of the seventh annual ball 
ol! the Arts Division.
WALTERS ELECTED 
PRES. OF RIFLE CLUB
30,000 Rounds of Ammunition, 
Ten Winchesters are on Way
TARNNP NS EDTFA BN YFW. 
-NJA.IBT JAN. 23, FEB. 
When President Wolters of the 
Tech Rifle Club called tho meeting to 
order last Wednesday night, there 
may not liave,been a majority of mem
bers present but those who were there 
are mighty glad they attended as it 
was one of the best meetings of tho 
year. President Wolters, in his pre
liminary address, stated that he desi'red every member to shoot 
often as he possibly could. He also 
said that the rifle team would shoot in 
tho W. R. A. matches. There will be 
two cups givon to the best teams. Ten 
Winchester rifles are on tlio road, and 
tho clubs quota of 30,000 rounds ol' 
ammunition are oxpoctod to arrive 
shortly.
It was da finitely decided at this 
meeting that inter-class matches 
should be hold. Every member is oli 
g-ible and the' four highest scores of 
oacli class will bo taken. The class 
having tho- highest score will ho 
awarded a silver iovlhg cup, suitably 
engraved.
President Wolters appointed tho fol
lowing team, captains, .whose duties 
are to organize their men and get 
them on the range; , Newman, Senior; 
Bylor, Junior; Nlcoiy, Soph.; Orr, 
Plobo.
In order to oncourugo rivalry among 
the Plobos, two members ol' tho club 
very kindly donated a Cup which Is to 
be awarded to tho Plobo making tho 
highest scoi'o.
Dr. Wau gam ah of the Fort Pitt 
Rifle Club was then Introduced and 
gavo an informal and Instructive talk 
on shooting. Dr. Waugamnn lit an ex
pert; shot; and proved to be extremely 
Interesting as well as thoroughly at 
home with his subject.
Bylor was elected vice president ol' 
the club to ill! tho vacancy In that 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
NO DONATIONS TO BE SOUGHT
INDUSTRIES NIGHT SMOKE
Kl LMARNOCH
The opening of the Inter-Fraternity 
Dormitory Basket Ball, League takes 
Place Tuesday night, January 18, 
v.'hen the teams of the American 
League start their battle for the pen
nant. Thursday night, January 20, the 
fireworks start in the National 
League with four games on the 
schedule. The contests will be 
staged in the Field House, and the 
first game will start at 7 oclock 
sharp. -.Four games have to be 
Playfed so it is up to the teams to 
he on time and get the games under 
v,'ay promptly. Brumbaugh is in 
charge of the floor and team managers 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Announcement is made of the.organ
ization of Kilmamoch, a Sophomore 
honorary society of the Industries Di
vision, to encourage Industries Fresh
men to .participate in athletics and 
school activities. Ten men will be 
selected each year from the freshman 
class of the Industries School, to be 
pledged on Tap Day and initiated the 
following fall.
The charter members of the society 
are H. W. McCaw, Roger Marshall, 
Mark L. Wright, Edward Gross and 
Stuart P. Smith. The following men 
have been pledged: Floyd C. Fischer, 
A. E. Elcliorn, W. A. Simpson, Paul S. 
Allen and Luther W. Morris.
STUDENT COUNCIL DICTATES 
NEW PLEBE REGULATIONS
Mr. S. E. Dibble of the Industries Di
vision is one of the associate editors 
of a Hand Book of Building Construc
tion, by Hool and Johnson (McGrawHill Company.) Mr. Dibble's contri
bution is on plumbing and drainage.
The following Freshmen regulations 
have been passed by the Student 
Council:
13cNo Freshman shall have on his 
person any civilian hat or cap.
15AddedAnd no Freshman shall 
precede any Senior, Junior, Sopho
more or member of the faculty in the 
South line of the Varsity Clan Cafe
teria. No first year men shall eat in 
the Margaret Morrison Cafeteria.
At a meeting of the" Student Coun 
cil, held January 9,1912, Fred Bloom 
was accepted as a member of that 
body to represent the iStudent Activi
ties Board.
Albert C. May was selected as chair
man of Campus Week Committee with 
full power to carry on its work. These 
other committees were also appointed: 
Committee to collect data for fees for 
ac.ivities, A. F. Leet, chairman; F. J 
Hirsch, Luther Lashmlt, Lois Mc
Combs and R. F. Warner.
Committee to collect new  school 
songs: Matthew Mawhinney, chair
man; Florence Leltz, A. A. Mankel, 
Mr. Johnson.
The School,of Music will give re
citals of solo and ensemble numbers 
on January 23 and February 6. On 
February 20 a reading of Enoch Ar
den will be given with musical ac
companiment.
It is hoped that more Tech students 
will attend these concerts, as special 
effort has been made to make them 
varied and interesting so that they 
will not be boresome to those who 
have not had the benefit of any de
gree of musical training.
On January 23, the next recital, 
there will be a presentation of famed 
compositions for organ, piano, violin 
and cello, by the following students: 
Marie Khyie, Gertrude Robinson, 
Stuart Blackmore, Alice Kirk, Max 
Silverman and Matthew Frey. The 
solo numbers will be accompanied by 
Helen Eshelman and Alice Kirk.
There have been a great many in 
quiries from outsiders concerning 
what degree of success has been at
tained by former students of the 
School of Music. Feeling that it might 
.be of interest to students,, and espec
ially to older Techites, who probably 
remember some of these former stud
ents, we submit a few names and the 
positions thejr now hold in organiza
tions of high standing:
Carl Christensen, cellist, New York 
Philharmonic Orchestra.
Frederica Napier, cello soloist, Cap
itol Theater, New York.
Theodore Surdykowski, flutist, Erie 
Symphony Orchestra.
Ralph Amato, clarinetist, Rialto 
Theater, New York.
Sando Amato, clarinetist, Pryors 
Band.
Richard Griffith, bassoon, Cleveland 
Symphony Orchestra.
Samuel Wagner, oboe, St. Louis 
Symphony Orchestra.
Tho first soclal got-togothor of tho 
Night Industries men Is planned for 
 Saturday evening, January 29. It will 
be a smQftt3r and a big ono, too, which 
will be field in tho gym. Tickets are
Tho call to Tech men, planned somo 
time ago, is about to bo sent through
out the length and breadth of tho land 
and every Tech man and woman is to 
be approached within the coming 
month and asked to contribute of his 
moral and financial support to tho 
cause of Tech athletics. Grievances of 
long standing, needs that, have grown 
to be imperative necessities, and an
ticipated requirements that cannot 
longer be delayed have resulted in 
the formation of a committee of ten, 
under tho chairmanship of Frank II. 
Haaren, chairman, graduate manager 
of athletics, that will sponsor tho 
cause of Tech school spirit and tho 
financial campaign that is to bo 
launched to carry the 1921-22 athletic 
program to success.
Plans for 1922, providing for an in
crease iii seating capacity at Tech 
field] re-surfacing of tho field, improve
ments in the gymnasium, additions to 
the list of sports, so as to includo 
wrestling, boxing and swimming, luivo 
long been needed Or desired, so as to 
place Tech athletics upon a parity 
with those of other schools olthe sec
tion, and to afford to Tech students 
and alumni, as well as the public, the 
prlvllego ol! witnessing Tech sports 
from as comfortable quarters, and In 
as groat numbers as possible.
Added to the factors are tho neces
sity ol! bringing tho Tech athletic 
material and equipment up to date, 
and Insuring an ample supply of equip
ment, so as to avoid duplication ol! tlio 
historic period when Tech athletes 
were provided with but I I suits for 
11 men, and none for emergency pur
poses; the''"desirability of acquainting 
school prospects from other districts 
with tho advantages of Tech, and 
using tl^o teams as an advertising 
medium.
N Clarence Ovorond, Alumni 'Council 
member, probably one of Tech's best; 
known men, and actlvo Jn the present 
movement, stated recently that wo 
must prepare a new field, wlilfch moans 
careful re-surfaoing of tho turf, and 
that means months of hard work. Per
haps one of tho host menus ol! accom
plishing this ond would ho to have 
tho varsity moti who will return next, 
fall, stay In Pittsburgh and aid In 
preparation of the gridiron, paying 
them the money that might otherwise 
go elsewhere for the same purpose. 
State College did It last year and fixed 
Beaver Field,
 Washington andl Jefferson luui told 
us that unless wo improve the Hold 
they will refuse to return, and I think 
their objection is well taken. Wo want 
W. and J. back, and It Is my hope that 
the Held will bo made safe' against 
seepage, mucj and other accidents. The
now on salo in the club room overylaoonor our Ilt-lUetIc equipment is im 
night by some of th., following: (Continued on l'ago Four.)
Knape, Matlat, Meixnor, Craig or Gingold.
STUDENT VESPERS
Last week Rev. R/N. Jessup spoke to 
a larger audience than usual at the 
student vesper services at the First 
Baptist Church. His subject was An 
Adjustable Creed. Dr. Gllkie of 
Chicago, who was to speak, was un
able to come on account of sickness. 
The vespers will be held .at the usual 
time this week, Thursday at 4:45 p. 
m., and all students are invited. The 
vespers council of students is plan
ning a dinner soon for all students 
who are interested, so come and get 
acquainted. Corner of Bayard and 
Bellefield. Ten minutes walk from the 
campus.
RAGS AND TATTERS DANCE
Proceeds for starving students of 
Europe.
This is going to be something dif
ferent. If you dont believe it watch 
for the different posters January 21. 
This Rags and Tatters dance will be 
held in the Union. Tickets will be 
sold to M. M. D. girls, the proceeds to 
go to a fund, for starving students of 
Europe. Each of the leading colleges 
lias been asked to help these destitute 
people and the committee at M. M, D. 
lias chosen this .enjoyable means of 
raising money.
GIRLS PLAY VARSITY BALL
Intor-class basketball has gotten 
well started at M. M. D. Class teams 
have started with a vengeance. A big 
pep meeting brought out lots of 
material, the Juniors showing up with 
their old time pep. Does Tech really 
know that a miracle has come to pass? 
The GirlsVarsity! .Although only one 
game is allowed this year (alid that 
one here) the spirit that has brought 
it about gives a fair warning of a rip
ping good basketball game from the 
Carnegie Tech girls.
Arrangements are being made and 
the manager is trying to get the 
Beaver Collhge Girls team here to 
meet our brand new and peppy var
sity some tim;e in March. Mr. I-Iaaren 
has promised the use of the gym for 
the contest. Watch for the date!
MUSICAL CLUBS OPEN SEASON 
AT TARENTUM JANUARY 20
Prof. Robert rA, Virgin of. tho (Coal 
Mining Department, was elected vice 
president of. tho Coal Mining Institute 
of America at its forty-third annual 
session held in Pittsburgh in Decem
ber.
The Musical Clubs will give their 
first concert of the season on Thurs
day evening, January 20, at the Tarentum Methodist Church.
For the past three months members, 
of these organizations have been prac
ticing and rounding their program into 
shape. 'I'hIs year's repertoire will bo 
well balanced, Including plenty of 
Jazz along with the heavier numbers.
Tho following week tho clubs will 
make an extensive four-day trip when 
they will appear at Youngstown and 
Cleveland as well as a number ot 
smaller towns..

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHK TAffTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1921
ariatt
Published every week 1>y undergraduates of tho Carnelo Institute o 
Technology under tho supervision of tho Student. Activities Board.
Entered ln tho Postbfllce of Pittsburgh an second-claHs matter.
Editor-in-chief..................
Business Manager.............
............ Lawrence Paquin
..................Don A. Biller
Schenley 92X1
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Managing Editor 
William D. Hall 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Fred L., Knowles 
Athlctic Editor 
Stuart P. Smltt 
Assistant Athlctic Editor 
H. L. Mqerfelder 
News Editor 
Donald S. Harding 
Asoistant Ncwo Editor 
Kenneth Arnold 
Night Editor 
Edward A. Brand
Cartoonist......................M. 0. Winslow
Photographer.................It. H. Guyton
BU8INE8S STAFF 
Circulation Manager ,
William 11. Obehour 
Advertising Manager 
William It. Mills 
Assistants on Business 8taff 
D. Sonnemann Walter Heller
Aclcrman
Divisional Assistants
M. M. D............................Helen Low!
Arts.................'.........V. H. Stromquist
Art...........................Charlotte Shuman
Seiende............................... J. Sissman
Industrie.........................B. It. Biever
Tlio iilditor-in-ChloE is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
NOT IN' THE CURRICULUM
Now that wo re in tho midst of the social season it might he 
veil to pause and, posBibly, adjust our perspective of the connection 
between social activities and college life. Life, broadly peaking, may 
bo divided into two phasos, business and social; and the school life 
which docs not prepare the student for both of these elements cannot 
be said to have grasped its fullest opportunities.
These coinses which arc contained in the curriculum have been 
found by experience and study of existing situations to best fulfill 
the requirements of the business world. A certain amount of time 
and study must be applied on these subjects in order to insure the 
student a reasonable amount of success in solving the problems of 
his adopted career. The completion of this outlined course fulfills 
tho scheduled scholastic requirements, and entitles a man to a 
degree.
But it is more than pure technical knowledge which marks the 
college graduate from his less fortunate fellows. The student who 
has taken full advantage of tho social opportunities of collegiate life 
finds himself at the end of his course to have acquired, unconsciously, 
perhaps, a certain social finesse and possessed of a poise which is as 
valuable to success as his more purely intellectual accomplishments. 
He who fails to realize the.importance of this side of his preparation 
is not only doing himself an injustice, but is depriving the community 
of that personal refinement which he in justice owes to it, and for 
which it must look to tho higher educational centers for recruits.
In outlining scholastic activities, there is seldom sufficient 
emphasis placed on the value of this important cultural factor. In 
fact it is on Hie other hand often the subject of much adverse crit
icism, and all scholastic ailments are generally laid at its door. 
Authorities are in the habit of holding up their hands in holy horror 
and averting their eyes from the prospect of tho believed impending 
disaster. But tho disaster soldom materializes. In its place we see 
men and women enjoying the companionship of each other, and 
taking on the mental stimulus gngendered by such social conduct. 
Tile more sympathetic understanding and the broader view of life, 
with tho fuller realization of o.ur places and responsibilities in the 
social unit are chief among the advantages fostered by this associ
ation.
At times I he amount of lima and money expended upon social 
affairs lias boon subject to unfavorable comment. There is hardly 
any college which has escaped, at 80)110 time or other, a scathing 
review ol' the cost; ol its recreations, liven here at Tech, which is by 
no means a large school, the figures taken in sum total arc often 
astounding. Hut iI' lime is taken to place the advantages above 
enumerated, besides the monetary considerations incurred, the latter 
will certainly serin most; insignilicanl. It is time that WO should 
realize that; the cheapest and perhaps the most important course to 
bo scoured in college life is not in the curriculum.
STUDENT CALENDAR
January I M. M. I*. Student Government Dance for Hoover 
Relief btind, iJnion.
January 21Costume Ball, Division of Arts, Arts Building.
January 22Basketball, Tech vs. W. Va. Wesleyan, Tech Gym.
January 22Night; Science Dancc, Union.
January 22- Varsity Clan Dance, Arts Building.
January 28-M. M. D. Night School Dance, IJnion. '*
January 28Hockey, Tech vs. Penn, Duquesne Garden.
January 28Frolic of the Laborers, Langley Laboratory.
January 29Basketball Dance, Union.
January 29Night Industries Smoker, Gymnasium.
February 8Basketball, Tech vs. Grove City, Tech Gym.
February 4Interfraternity Smoker, D. U. House.
February 4Follies of 1.922, M. M. D.
February 5Follies of 1922, M. M. D.
February 5Basketball, Tech vs. Geneva, Tech Gym.
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS FOR 1920-21 
Scholarship Grants From C. I. T.
Name of Student Home Scholarship Ami.
Henrietta Adamson, Wayneshurg, Pa., General Fee Scholarship..............?125
C. M. Blackburn, Butte, Mont., General Pee Scholarship........................ 125
C. J. Code, Pittsburgh, Pa., General Pee Scholarship ............................. 125
Russell Collins, Indianapolis, Ind.. General Pee Scholarship ................. 125
It. V. Gatvert, McKeesport,'Pa., General Pee Scholarship ........................ 125
Dorothy Grant. Pittsburgh, Pa., General Pee Scholarship ........................ 125
II. C. Hanunann, Martinsburg, \V. Va., General Pee Scholarship............ 125
J. Hirsclunan, Pittsburgh, Pa., General Pee Scholarship .......................... 125
Alice Kirk, Mt. Oliver, Pa., General Pee Scholarship ............................. 125
N. K. Long, Pittsburgh, la General Pee Scholarship ............................ 125
A. Martlieus, Turtle Crook, Pa., General Poe Scholarship ....................... 125
W. W. McAlpine, Pittsburgh, Pa., General Poo Scholarship .................... 125
J. B. Moore, Washington, Pa., General Fee Scholarship .......................... 125
Paul Moore, Freeport, Pa., General Pee Scholarship .........................125
C. E. Peterson, McKeesport, Pa., (W'noral Pee Scholarship ...................... 125
Winifred Rico, Sweeney, Texas, General Fee Scholarship...........125
Alary Sheorla, Pittsburgh, Pa., General Fee Scholarship .......................... 125
Paul Simpson, Limn, Ohio, General Fee Scholarship ........................! 125
Alary Zarohuky, Pittsburgh. Pa.. General Pee Scholarship .. . ' 125
FRENCH SCHOLARSHIPSRobert l)u Bols, Prance .................................................................................. .00
.Uene Moulin, Alocon, Franco ...................soo
SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS BY OUTSIDE DONORS 'Lola M. Aullman, Gvooly, Colo., Drama Atnmnl Scholarship ................ 125Frederick Illoom, Now Kensington, Pa., George II. Smith MemorialScholarship............................................................................ loo
Kllen Crowe, Pittsburgh, Pa., Women's Southern Club oi iIiVsimrgh.... 125 
Anna Hibbs, Aliaiiu, Pa., Margaret. Morrison Alumnae Scholarship 125
Clarence Ilnnt. Fort. Wayne, Ind.. Robert W. Spring Memorial.. I'M
Blanche Humphrey, Kllwood City, Pn Class or moil Memorial Scholarship, Atargaret. Alorrlson Division...................................................... 50
Win. 1!. lvappes, Detroit, Mich., Women's Southern Club ol Pittsburgh.'.' 125 
Carl Reid, Battle Creek, Mich., Richard Mauslleld 11. Memorial ScholarPaul.Sladelc, Turtle Creei;, Pa.. Aliderdioe Sol'ioinrship Va Musio'i.'1"5 
Helen 'Smith, Joliet, 111., Social Work Scholarship by Unnamed PittsburghDonor .................................................................................................  fSBB
Bernard Tick, Pittsburgh, Pa., Irene Kaufman Settlement .!!!!!.*........... S5
Morton Winslow, Smiths Mills, N. Y., Burdick Scholarship .................125
DO YOU PLAY CHESS?
Tech's to add a Chess Club to Its 
already extenslvo group of student or
ganization. A meeting of all those 
Interested in the queen and pawn arc 
Invited to assemblo in room (50, Sci
ence Building, Thurday afternoon, 
January 20, at 8' p. m.
Che club already xlst In a num
ber of tho college and universities 
and It in hoped that sufficient interest 
will be manifest so that a team may 
be picked and matches arranged.
8XK WILL ADDRESS RADIO CLUB
Mr. Conrad, radio engineer of the 
Wetinghouse Electric Company, bet
ter known to, amateurs a 8XK, will 
be the speaker at the next meeting of 
the Radio Club, which will be held in 
room 104, Machinery Hall, on Friday 
evening, January 21, at 8 p. m.
All persons interested In this branch 
of science are cordially invited to at
tend.
Pennsylvania, University of Texas and 
Cornell.
BEAUX ARTS EXHIBIT
A traveling exhibit of the problems 
judged at the Beaux Arts Institute of 
Design, New York, is on exhibition in 
Design School. The work is by stud
ents at Yale, Columbia, University of
Monday, January 16th, at 4:30 
oclock was the hour of.' reckoning for 
the daring and reckless plebes of De
sign Schpol. Nine plebes stood trial 
in the Architectural Drafting room 
and all of them were pronounced 
guilty. Eight of the convicted Fresh
men were given time, and then thrown 
into the sink; the other Was freed by 
reciting a humorous poem. Everyone 
seemed to lose spirit and interest as 
the trial progressed, but this was 
caused by the continuation of the 
same sentence, "sinking, and the 
exceptionally large number of cases 
tried.
The holidays and the approach ot 
the Design School Ball has caused the 
plebes to he very lax in obeying all 
regulations and the Sophomores have 
been on the alert for the law-breakers. 
It therefore follows that on every Mon
day disobedient plebes will have to 
face charges. Preparations are being 
made.so.that all future trials, which 
must be short and snappy, will be 
held in the Senior Drafting room, for
merly occupied by the Psychology de
partment.
M. M. D. DOINGS
SOPHOMORE TEA
FOR MRS.SCALES
Honoring Mrs. Scales, their class 
sponsor, the Sophomores will give a 
tea for the faculty in the Recreation 
Hall on Thursday afternoon, January 
20th.
MELLONITES ENTERTAIN
Mellon Hall was the Beene of a very 
pretty DjKAj dance last Saturday even
ing. Maggio sent his best pieces, 
which were thoroughly enjoyed by 
everyone. It was an impromptu af
fair and hastily arranged, but the 
many who attended are willing to 
vouch it was every bit as successful 
If not more so, than one on which 
weeks of preparation had been spent.
HOUSEHOLDS HAVE PARTY
The members of the Household 
Economics Club and Faculty enjoyed 
a party at tho Practice House on Tues
day evening. The evening was spent 
simply-in having a good time and en
joying each, other; Miss Pape and 
Miss Hatch were delightful hostessclinporoneis.
FORBES GIVES DANDY DANCE
On Friday evening all Forbes was 
In gala, at tirioibbth the House and 
UK* Inmates. The occasion was a 
very happy houso dance that had 
several novel features. Tho committee 
worked bard to make the affair a good 
one and, according to all the "also 
piv.HontH," surely auccerded. The dec
orations wore one of the most novol 
fen tulles, each room representing a 
different holiday: St. Patrick's Day 
Valentino Day, Hallowe'en and Wash
ington's Birthday.
SCIENCE FACULTY TEA
The Science teaching force enterI allied tlie faculty at a laboratory tea 
Thursday evening in the Biology Lab
oratory.
The affair was very enjoyable and 
quite novel.
The tea was made in a funnel and 
the guests drank it through stirring 
rods from beakers. The sandwiches 
were served on a. large glass square 
and were labeled 'carbohydrates; 
the sugar was on a watch glass 
labeled sucrose; wire test tube hold
ers making excellent sugar tongs. The 
guests used large watch, glasses as 
plates.
EXCHANGES
Yale will form rifle, fencing and box
ing teams for intercollegiate com
petition for the first time in the his
tory of the college. The Yale rifle 
team will shoot matches by telegraph 
with college teams all over the 
country.
Women studying at Oxford Univer
sity, England, are barred from public 
dance halls. It is also forbidden to 
give dances in public rooms or to take 
part in public subscription dances. If 
is necessary to secure permission to 
hold private dances in private rooms 
also.
To serve as a relief from the days 
study grind during the winter months, 
the Harvard Union, gathering place 
for Harvard men, has inaugurated 
afternoon tea. With the tea, the 
menu provides for mufllns toast and 
strawberry jam.
Bill SaysThe Campus Anvil
THE PUBLIC PRINKERS'
PRIVATE PROSPECTUS
, Sir: The name of this organization 
shall be The Public Prinkers. Any 
adult male who owns a suitcase, va
lise or carpetbag shall be eligible for 
membership.
There are no dues, but there are 
duties, viz:
Whenever a member sees a woman 
on a train, or trolley car bring out 
her mirror and powder her nose or 
rouge her lips, he shall:
Open his bag, produce a large comb 
and run it through his mustache.
 If he has no mustache he shail 
bring out a pair of military brushes 
and slick his hair.
If he has no hair he shall get out a 
whisk broom and brush his clothes.
If he haS no clothes he shall bring 
forth a blacking-brush and polish his 
shoes.
If he has no shoes he shall produce 
a small tub, with'water, soap and 
washrag, and take a bath.
The motto of thift organization is: 
PRIVACY BE DAMNED.Albion
College Pleaid.
JUNIOR PROM
The.M. M. D. Junior Prom is * 
*:? under way! The whole class is * 
:* talking about it, from all feminine  
v angles, and truly its going to be  
-> good.
Ail the plans have not as yet 
* .been made, but theres a good  
v committee working on them. The 
committee is: Betty Paul, Helen 
> Reed, Gladys Bogue, Eleanor *1
* Foster, Elizabeth Brinkman, Ag* nes Shepherd.
Were just as white as snow.
Mary had a little slam 
For everyone, and so 
The leaves in her engagement book
WifeBut, my dear, youve for
gotten again that today is my birth
day.
HusbandErlisten, love. I know 
I forgot it, but there isnt a thing 
about you to remind me that you are 
day older than you were a year ago. 
London Opinion.
Mrs. K.Bridget, did my husband 
come in a moment ago?
BridgetNo, maam; that was the. 
dog you heard growlin.
A book on Foreign Trade, by Prof. 
Howard C. Kidd has recently been 
published by Prentice-Hall, Inc.
NEW LIGHT ON SHAKESPEARE
Tho training of industrial executives 
will be a feature of the courses in 
many .colleges in the United States, 
according to an announcement made 
recently by Dr. Hollis Godfrey, presiThe following biography of Shakes
peare, by a candidate for College en
trance examination, has been sent us 
by a reader in English for the College 
entrance board:
Shakespeare was born in iStratfordvon-Avon, situated on the banks of the 
Hudson River. 1-Ie was bora of poor 
but gentile parents. His mother was 
Anne Hathway. In the middle of his 
life his father was put in prison, and 
this caused his mother to work by 
teaching school. As a boy he would 
write little lines which were very 
funny and made the teacher laugh. 
When he would go home in the after-1 
noon, he would read some books that \ 
other boys would not think of reading, 
and even some men. The stuff which 
is dull for some people are interesting 
for him.
He began life as a butchers appren
tice. Later he graduated from Oxford 
College. All this time his life was not 
a bed of roses, as many a day he went 
without food. After he went to Lon
don ho married Ann Boilc-n, a child
hood sweetheart. They lived in a 
slovenly neighborhood a little ways 
out of London.
lie then became an actor but not be
ing successful at that he entered the 
political life. During that time Eng
land was in the throes of political 
wars. Milton stands out as a political 
figure of that time, although Shakes
peare did try for some political posi
tion and was disappointed. Finally 
when he found that he could not suc
ceed at. anything else but writing he 
settled down to that.
Shakespoare inhabited this world 
during tho reign of Queen Elizabeth, 
who, during the lieighth of his fame 
made him Poet-Lauriet, and let him 
live in tlio palace with her. In order 
to promote poetry many of the poorer 
writers were invited by the queen to 
live in the palace, and thus many 
were able to write poetry without any 
thought as to when they would eat 
their next meal.
Shakespeares ideas were on crazy 
people or murders. His idea of a 
woman was that she could not be as 
bold as a man. He always has his 
women meak and dependent or else 
harsh and bold and then suddenly turn 
them back to the opposite. He wrote 
many masques, such as Comus and 
Midsummer Nights Dream. Toward 
the end of his life he leaped  into a 
.pensive mood, writing heavy trajic 
work. In his book& he uses many- obsoLeate words, but appied them to his 
own meening In an index at the end of 
the book.
He remained popular for many 
years, a,nd then his popullarity stoped 
short, and he was sliuned by all his 
former friends. He owned the Drury 
Lane Theatre. Dr. Johnson was born 
nine years before Shakespeare died.
Shakespeare lived a pure and holy 
life. He died in London and was 
hurried! in Westminster Abby.
dent of Drexel Institute. The plan 
was suggested at a conference in 
Philadelphia last March, of the rep
resentatives of industrial plants capi
talized at $26,000,000,000, and . repre
sentatives from 620 colleges.
The plan contemplates the estab
lishment of practical teaching in the 
colleges assisting undergraduates and 
others to find their life work, the plac 
ing of several thousand teachers and 
students in industry during the sum
mer months, and the introduction of 
extension courses for men now in in
dustry.
An appropriation of $100,000 every 
year, made by industry, will cover tho 
expense. That appropriation will be 
used, first to determine tho field of 
service which each college can (\over 
and, second, to provide tho colleges 
with all industrial data which may be 
utilized in forming undergraduate 
courses for men contemplating enter
ing industry and in reaching the man
agement men already in industry 
through extension courses.
WATCH THE GIRLS PLAY 
BASKET BALL
EAST LIBERTY Y. Ilil. vs. CENTRAL IW.
Wednesday, January 19 
TECH GYM.
8:15 P. M.AdmissionTwo Bits
LOSTBetween Design School and 
Morewkood, a ladys gold wrist watch, 
Swiss movement. Finder please re
turn to Dean Tarbells office and re
ceive reward.
FOUNDGirls fountain pen on 
campus January 13. Apply Dean Of 
Mens Oilice.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. d., 
Minister.
Preaching Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
_____________________________________
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues. 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. 
A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD AND DITHRIDGE STSFREDERICK C. NAU; Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M.
Social Hour and Luncheon for Stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock. - 
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45.. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all students.
SOMETHING FOR STUDENTS
Always at the Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House.
RECREATION, FELLOWSHIP, READING 
ROOM, POOL, Etc., every day.
BIBLE STUDY, WORSHIP, VAGABOND CLUB 
on Sunday.
Use Your Tclescopic Eye.
piipiii^
I Weve Fitted Feet 
Over Fifty Years
| P, LUDEBUEHL &, SON
| PENN & FRANKS| TOWN AVENUES
1 We are now conducting 
our
SEMI-ANNUAL
| RED TAG SALE
| All Shoes Reduced. 1
liinHitiiiiiffliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiniiiiiEiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiieiiir
| First Church of Christ, 
s Scientist
CLYDE STREET
Services Sunday11 a.
m. and 8 p. m. 
Wednesday Testimony 
Meeting 8 p. m. 
Sunday School 11 a. m. I
ALL ARE CORDIALLY ^ 
INVITED TO ATTEND
ISJBi0J5MSJ5J5JSiSi515/SJ51SiSHi5M5JSiSM5MH.r
St. Pauls Cathedral 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, S:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays & Holy Days. 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle Aisle, for Tech 
Students.
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers- -Equipment. Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET

---------------------------------------------------

The Ancients hailed Atlnfl, the giant who 
upheld their world, na the greatest, emhod-f
iment of power. But Atlas was a myth.
Science has produced a fit companion for Atlas, not a myth hut 
a gigantic machine of iron, steel and copper, with such tremen
dous power that it is fitting to call it A BHOTIIEIt TO ATLAS. 
Atlas performed his duty by upholding the world, and Westinghouse 
engineers are performing theirs in keeping the wheels of industry re
volving. They are continually striving to create electrical apparatus 
that will conserve the energy of man. and make our world a more 
desirable place in which to live.
Are you planning for your part in the future of the World Electrical. 
WESTING HOUSE ELECTRIC & MFG. CO.
East Pittsburgh, Ia.Lester, Pa.
WESTINGHOOSE ^ ELECTRIC
This paragraph presented at the! 
Singer Pen & Gift Shop, Jenkins Ar
cade, will entitle any Carnegie Tech| 
student to a Free mechanical pencil j 
of Sharp Point style, with a purchase 
amounting to $2.50 or more.
Scatter sunshine by sending Birth-1 
d&y and other greeting cards to yourj 
relatives and friends. A wonderful 
assortment of such cards can be found 
at
SINGERS
JENKINS ARCADE
COACHES ENGAGED FOR 
TARTAN BOXING AND 
WRESTLING TEAMS
"Monsieur Traveler
Whos going to iden
tify me at this place or 
that?is the question 
Mellon Letters of Credit banish from your 
mind altogether.
Carry them in conven
ient amounts. Its the 
safe way, and it pro
vides against possible 
embarrassment.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts Pa.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00 |
Safe Deposit Boxes for ! 
Rent
Do You Dance?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
JACQUES DANCING 
ACADEMY
Craig and Forbes
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best Laun
dry Agency
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
Opposite Library
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable prices 
3719 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Yen Showing up Well In Prac
tice SessionsWrestling 
Match Scheduled With West
inghouse Club
PLEBE BASKET BALL
GAME AT SECHENLEY
The Plebe basket ball team will 
meet the Schenley High aggregation 
Friday evening on tlieir floor.
The Peabody team has been secured 
to play a preliminary for the W. Va. 
Wesleyan-Tecli game on the 22nd at 
the Tech gym.
PLAID FIVE SUFFERS DE
FEAT ON EASTERN TRIP
Lose to Delaware. Georgetown 
and Gettysburg. Capt. HamTINGTNP
If you think you ln\ve> been beaten, 
you are;
If you think you dare not, you dont,; 
If youd like to win, but you think you 
cant,
Its almost a cinch you wont.
PLEBE CAGEMEN BEATEN BY 
FAST INDIANA NORMAL FIVE
The Plaid boxing and wrestling 
teams have been w or Icing hard the 
last week and are showing such 
progress that observers are freely 
predicting they will stand up with 
the best glove and mat teams in this 
part of the country. The boxers are 
looking forward to their meet with 
Penn State on February 5, when they 
will exchange blows with a team 
which made a wonderful record last 
year. Penn State has a vieteran ag
gregation and tried men to place in 
almost every weight. The Tech men 
think they will b:e - able to give a 
good account of themselves, though, 
and are going down to State with 
the determination to bring back the 
decision in a majority of the bouts.
Wayne C. Cobb has beien engaged 
as coach of the boxing team' for the 
present season and still further im
provement in the team is looked for
ward to as soon as he starts work. 
Cobb hais just returned from the Pa
cific Coast where he has been spend
ing some time. While there he en
gaged in a bout with-Bob Martin and 
stayed1 nine rounds with him. He 
will be with the team on Tuesday 
and Thursday nights in the Langely 
Laboratory.
The match with Pienn State calls 
for fights at seven different weights 
with the option of not fighting at 
one weight. These begin at 115 
pounds and go up in steps of ten 
poundfe. Nothing has been decided 
definitely as to who will represent 
the school at different weights, but 
some of the men showing up well in 
the different classes are Cafagna, 115 
pounds; Martin,. 125 pounds; Kurtz, 
135 pounds; Campbell, 135 pounds; 
Wittmer, 145 pounds; Patterson and 
Bob Mills, 165 pounds.
Wesfcinghouse Club has been put on 
the schedule of the wrestling team 
for a match in the near future. Mr. 
McCully of the Drawing and Design 
Department, Science School, has 
agreed to coach the wrestling squad. 
Mr. McCully is a graduate of Science 
School and was a member of the 
Tech wrestling team several years 
ago. Springle is continuing to show 
up well andl all indications point to 
him being Techs star performer in 
the- heavyweight division.
Lehigh, W. Va., Ohio State and 
Washington and Lee have all writ
ten to Manager Capoly for places on 
the schedule, but none of these offers 
have 'been accepted as yet. As this 
is the first .year Tech has had teams 
in wriestling and boxing for some 
time a heavy schedule is not desira
ble, and Manager Copely is going 
slow on scheduling games.
Lose Game In Last Ten Seconds of 
Play When Score Is Tied and Indi
ana Shoots Basket.
If you think youre lost, you're lost,
mann Unable to Accompany For out ot the world wo nn<i
Success begins with a fellows will;Team
The Tech Plebes lost a hard-fought 
battle to the Indiana Normal floor 
team, 29-27, Tuesday evening, on 
Techs newly enlarged floor. The game 
was a preliminary to the Tech-W. & J. 
game, and a large crowd was on hand 
to see the Plebes open their schedule. 
The visiting team was lucky to go 
home victorious, for Tech led most of 
the way, and it was only in the last 
minute that De Vaughn, a substitute, 
shot the goal which decided the game.
Indiana led at the end of the first 
quarter by one point, 7-6. The Plebes 
came back strong in the second period 
and were leading, 1S-16, when the 
whistle was blown for the half. The 
Tartans continued their good work in 
the third quarter, which ended, 26-20. 
After the last quarter started, In
diana made some substitutions and im
mediately they began to cut down 
Techs lead. The score was tied at 
27, and with but 10 seconds left to play 
Indiana made the goal which awarded 
them the victory.
Coach Vet Williams is compli
mented for the fine team he has turned 
out. With a little more experience, 
the Plebe team will be the equal or 
any prep school outfit in the section. 
The lineup:
Tech Plebes. Indiana Normal.
Smith ................F................ Llewellyn
Lowstutter.......F............. Vickerman
Siferd ........... .C..................... Rogers
Comfort .........G.................. Murman
Buckley.............G............ Manganella
Substitutions  Tech, Jones for 
Smith; Parker for Lowstutter, Smith 
for Comfort; Comfort for Siferd; 
iShucker for Buckley; Lowstutter for 
Parker. Indiana, De Vauglm for Rogers, 
Johnson for Manganella. Field goals 
Parker 3, Llewellyn 3, Vickerman 2, 
Rodgers 2, Jones 2, Siferd 2, Murman 
De Vaughn, Lowstutter, Comfort. 
FoulsVickerman 11 out of IS; Jonies 
3 out of 7; Siferd 5 out of 9; Shucker 
1 out of 3. Time of quarters10 min
utes. ReereeAl. Shack.
The Plaid five returned Sunday 
after a trip through the East having 
played Delaware. Georgetown and Get
tysburg. D-feats were sustained 
all three games, the Tartans meeting 
stiff opposition from their opponents 
in each contest. The first stop on 
the trip was at Newark, N. J., where 
Delaware was played, the score be
ing Delaware 34, Tech 26. From 
Newark they made a jump to Wash 
ington. ip lading the fast Georgetown 
quintet. Georgetown got away to an 
early lead and could not be stopped 
by the Lairds, the game tending 37 to 
27 in their favor. Saturday night 
Gettysburg was played on their home 
floor, which is. hardly large enough 
to accommodate the referee after the' 
two teams are on it. The Gettys
burg five ended up on the long end 
of the score 34 to IS. Captain Ham 
mann was unable to make the trip 
with the team on account of his 
knee whiol^was injured last week in 
the W. & J. game. It is somewhat 
improved, now and he expects to be 
able to make the trip to Marietta 
next Friday when the Tech cagemen 
play Greasy Neales quintet.
Its all in the state of mind.
If you think youre outclassed, you 
are;
Youve got to think liiglv to rise. 
Youve got. to be sure of yourself be
fore
You can ever win a prize.
Lifes battles dont always go 
To the stronger or faster man:
But soon or late the man wlio wins 
Is the man who thinks he can.
Exchange.
At the Theatres
GRAND
Mary Piclcfords latest United Art
ists (production, The Love Light 
will be seen. at the Grand all next 
week, starring Monday, January 24. 
(Frances Marion, acclaimed the lead
ing scenario writer of the country, 
both wrote and directed the produc
tion.
Ail additional feature will be a 
Harry Lehrtnan eomediy, The Kick 
in High Life.
Too Much Prosperity.
fhcre is ever a certain languor at
tending the fullness of prosperity. 
When the heart has no more to wish It 
yawns over its possessions and the 
energy of the soul goes out.like a flame 
that has no more to devour.Young.
THE TECH BAND
fids to good looks, sound teetft. 
X appetite and healthy digestion
Sealed
T m
SKATING PARTY COMN, LETS 00
Carnegie Tech HoCKey team's skat
ing party will be held Friday night 
January 21, from 11:00 p. m. to 1:00 
a. m., at the Duquesne Gardens. The 
price of admission will be $1.10. 
Cervonn$s Band will furnish the 
music and all Tech should be on
the ice that night.
The hockey team is one of the
many athletic teams that have no
appropriations and so far the mem
bers of the team have bought all 
their implements. The Duquesne
Gardens have furnished guarantees to 
all teams that have played here, so 
the hockeyi team is representing Tech 
and it has not cost Tiech a cent.
More equipment is needed, there
fore the skating party. A dance was 
suggested, but a skating party 
more in line with the hockey team. 
They need the support of the stu
dents, contribute this much to them, 
if not for the two hours on the ice, 
for their courage against such un
equal odds.
Ineffective Hollering.
De man dat hollers about his bein 
jes as good as any other man, said 
Uncle Eben, mos generally aln doin 
enough useful work to proY ill* ar
gument.
Uncongenial is only a polite synonym for a shorter and uglier word; 
in plain English, it means a snob. 
Every snob has his day and the bigger 
snobs they are, the harder they fall.
An intercollegiate conference, dis
cussed and agitated among men of 
several leading colleges for some 
time, seems most likely to become a 
reality early this spring. Its aim is 
bringing together of representatives 
of various Eastern colleges to discuss 
problems of undergraduates govern
ment and student activities.
The conference itself is to be com
posed of five representatives from each 
college within 500 miles of Boston, 
making a total of about 150 men. Al
ready 46 colleges have been invited to 
attend, and it is understood that any 
others may send representatives if 
they so desire.Exchange.
During the holidays Professor Geckeler attended the meeting of the Amer
ican Mathematics Society in Chicago.
(Continued From Page One.)
The band, as it stands this year, is 
at the bottom of {he ladder on a higher 
level. It i^ asked, why not a bigger 
better band for Tech with more of a 
variety of instruments? If the band 
had the ready instruments it. could 
turn out a 65-piece band easily and on 
any occasion. There are at present 
enough band instruments on the cam
pus under the control of the school to 
make this bigger band, but if the band 
wants these instruments .it must pay 
for them and funds are not available 
for this .purpose. However the inst ru
ments are laying idle (and must be 
deteriorating) waiting for a suitable 
opportunity to come along to dispose 
of them. Would it not be better to let 
some member of the band use an in
strument?
Eventually the band will wear kills 
when on parade. At present this is im
possible to do because of the expense 
of doing away with old uniforms 
which are still good for some years 
service, and moreover it is an ex
pensive proposition to outfit the band 
with this type of uniform. Outfitted 
in this way Tech's band would make 
a decided hit anywhere and it is the 
ultimate aim of the band to get this 
uniform.
The activities of the band can be 
considered as divided up into three 
periods: (1) fall season, (2) winter 
season, (3) spring season. The band 
has certain definite lines of work cut 
out for it during these periods. In the 
fall season its major work consists of 
furnishing the musical pep at the 
home football games; the winter sea
son it must devote to practice for prin
cipally concert work and for the bas
ketball games; for the spring season 
it must be prepared for all of the 
above mentioned, except the replacing 
of football games by baseball.
One period has been covered and 
the work of the band has been a step 
toward bringing back its old prestige 
and has been recognized and appreci
ated in a way never before accorded 
the band, namely, participation in the 
Varsity Clan banquet. This-step can
not be over-emphasized as to the sig
nificance of its meaning, and the mem
bers of the band should realize this 
and let it act, as a stimulater toward 
the end which we hope to attain be
fore the band of 1920-21 passes into 
history.
The period with which the band is 
now concerned is the winter period. 
Contemplated plans call for several 
out-of-town trips varying in length and 
time. To make these trips a success 
it is necessary that a high grade of 
music be played on concerts, plus a 
little jazz. Jazz requires no practice, 
concert music does; it requires steady 
attendance at rehearsals.
In recognition of work for the band 
insignia is given. Its awarding is 
based on attendance at rehearsals and 
public appearances of the band. The
A North Carolina doctor inclined to 
be mindful of other peoples business, 
was riding along a country road. He 
drew up where a farmer was husking 
grain in a field.
Doc.You are gathering yellow 
corn?
FarmerYes, sir, plauted that 
kind.
Doc.Wont get more than half a 
crop?
FarmerDont expect to. Planted 
it on half shares.
Doc.You must be mighty near a 
fool.
FarmerYes, sir; only a fence be
tween us.
Notice the good1 work being done 
i our campus grass plots, and 
PLEASE!
Good Advice.
When a man has nothing to say ho 
should say it with the fewest possible 
wordsand say it as seldom as possi
ble.
trips afford not only a good time, but 
also public recognition of Techs 
band.
Ink on the Carpet.
To remove ink spots from the carpet 
after they have become dry rub tliera 
with mlllc, taking fresh as it becomes 
inky. Afterward wash the spot witto 
ammonia water to remove the grease.
China's Grand Canal.
The Grand canal of China is the 
longest canal In the world. It reaches 
from Hangchow to Tientsin and covers 
a distance of 1,000 miles, crossing two 
of the worlds largest rivers, the 
Hwang and the Yangtze.
First Magazine Run by Women.
The first magazine In America con
ducted solely by women was tho 
Lowell Offering, a monthly periodical 
published from 1842 to 1849 by girls 
employed in the mills of Lowell, Mass. 
Lucy Larcom was one of Its frequent 
contributors.
Family Secrets. "
What a beautiful mamma youvo 
got, said a guest to his hostess llttlo 
daughter.
Yes, when theros a party, replied 
the infant terrible.Boston ilrana* 
crlpt.
Surest Thing You Know.
The greatest boro upon this earth* 
tho biggest nuisance knownIs he who 
talks about himself and his small 
affairs alone, when you think ho ought
to listen while you talk about ;-----
own.
DAVIS
The two principal features will bo 
George F. Moore and his FidgetyFudge-Rovuette, and Franker Wood 
and Bunee Wyde in an elaborate 
tabloid musical comedy, All Right 
Eddy. The former act is a novel 
concoction of songs, daiices and morrinient which will add greatly to the 
ibrigliter side of life.
Most Distant Cepheida.
The most distant ccplieids now 
known are nearly 20,000 light years 
from the sunalmost as far away as 
the nearest of the globular clusters 
(about 21,000 light years).
Greater Than All Else.
We take care of our health, we lay 
up money, we make our roof tight and 
our clothing sufficient, but who pro
vides wisely that he shall not bo want
ing In the best: property of allfriends Emerson.
Ono Thing After Another.
Widow GubbonsI be very sorry to 
ask eo for help again, sur, so soon af
ter mo poor uslmnds deathbut an
other pig died this mornln.Cassells 
Saturday Journal.
Dally Thought.
Noblo disappointment and noble nolfdenlal are not to bo admlrod, not even 
to be pardoned, If thoy bring bitter^ 
nos. Gentleness and cheerfulness, 
these come beforo all morality; thoy 
tiro the perfect duties.R. L. S.
Playing Safe.
Grace, aged 0, had heard conflicting 
stories about Santa Gland, lint rolused 
to admit tt doubt of his actuality. She 
concluded a prayer as follows: And 
God bless Santii Claus, even If In* is 
papa.
Don't Forget the Shut-Ino.
If thero are shut-ins around you 
donl; fall to call on thorn frequently. 
Yon need tho blessing tho shut-in can 
give you as much as the shut-in need*1 
tho blessing you can bring.
ESDAY, JANUARY 19. 1921 THE TARTAN_______________________________________________________________________________________________________PAGE THREEPLAID ATHLE TI OS-:-

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 1921
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day about the large 
number of her cubs.
How many cubs do you bring into the world at 
one time? she asked the LIONESS.
Only ONE, replied the Lionessbut it[s a 
LION.
MURADS COST 20 CENTS for a BOX 
of 10BUT THEY'RE MURADS !
DONT PROCRASTINATE OR PUT OFF 
RESOLVE you arc going to BOOST and BACK Tech to tho limit for the 
whole of 1023..Tech hoods you aw never before.
Have you ever Atopped to consider what Tocli did for you?
That you paid only 20% to 25% of the actual cost of your education 
. here?
That you have an Employment Bureau maintained to serve you at 
all times?
That you are always welcome on the campus?
Thai, you have Tho Tartan sont you by tho Administration and the 
Athletic Association Jf you are a paid-up member?
Still tho latest figures show some have forgotten their moral obligation. 
Look for yourself.
Former
Graduatpa Studcnta 
Eligible
1000 
3800 
400
CLAN NEWS
Arts ..............................103
Industries ...................000
Margaret Morrison... .433
Psychology ................. 30
Science ......................800
Paid-up Paid-up 
Grnduatco Associates
25 30
96 128
237 25
Total
Paid-up
Members01
224
202
3400 340 J 08 514
if you are not a member JOIN NOW by writing O. L. Tilbrook, Carnegie 
Instituto of Technology.
Wo must show the Administration and Trustees that we are vitally in
terested In what they do. We have representation on tho Administrative 
Council and hope to secure representation on the Board of Trustees soon. 
You must back these representatives as well as all other Alumni Ollleers.
jnmmmmmmmmmmmtmmmmmmmmnmmmmmmmmnmmmmm!
Sunday, January 23, 1921 
TECH NIGHT
Sixth Presbyterian Church
REV. BENJAMIN P. FARBER, Preacher.
Forbes Street and Murray Avenue 
THIS IS FOR EVERY TECH STUDENT 
7:45 P. M.
Special Music Tech Quartette
BATTERY
Exide 
SERVICE
___________________________
IBON CITY ELECTRIC C.
 Baum and Mellwood ;i; 
All Kinds of Batteries $ 
Repaired & Recharged :j:
SKIBQ INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME, 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
PITTSBURGH CLAN STARTS 
TO DIB IN ON DRIVE 
FOR 50,000 GOAL
The Pittsburgh Clan held a very in
teresting meeting in the Flemish room 
of the Fulton Cafeteria Thursday eve
ning. Twenty-two members were pres
ent, and they entered into a general 
discussion of the,athletic drive.
President Casey outlined the drive 
tnd asked that every member get other 
Tech people interested.
The Clan will act as a separate unit 
in making its subscription and it is 
hoped it will lie tho first over tho top. 
A pledge list was passed at the meet
ing and returned 100 per cent. That is 
the kind of spirit every Techite must 
have in order that athletics may live 
at Carnegie Tech.
Other Interesting talks were given 
by Overend, King, I-Iaaren and DeMutli. After a general good get-to
gether, the meeting adjourned.
Remember tho next clan meeting at 
Chamber of Commerce, Room B, 1 p. 
m., Saturday, January 22, 1921.
J. W. BATMAN, Secretary.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN.
The membership of the Industries 
Alumni Association is still increas
ing, but there are y.et about 200 In
dustries TechJles not witli us. It is 
your duty paid-up man, to set the 
unpaid men on the right track.
Second statements are being sent 
out and we hope to get with us all 
those who have been delinquent.
Remicraber the athletic drive is un
der way and the results of the drive, 
will be a big determining factor in 
tho history of Tech. The result now 
deipietnds upon the Alumni Association 
and we need you as members that 
wo might be sure of your support.
The Board of Governors will (meet 
Thursday, January 20, in Mr. G. L. 
Tllbrooks office at 8:00 p. m.
TECH RIFLE CLUB MEETS
LEFA
supplies sold by 
A. J. HYND, Jr. Mech. 
Locker 2365
Science Bldg 
Opp. Plebe Locker 
Room
Phone: Schenley 9211 ill 
paasHEi^^
4915 Forbes Street
iBiBsaisnm
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORYP
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
llllllllllllllllllW...I1II1IIIIIHIII..1..[Ill............................HIM!
AUFHAMiER & EVANS
HATS
and
Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
(Continued From Page One.) 
office and Blcvor was appointed puh
lieity Snanageiv
The 20 highest scores to date:
( 1)C.G.Hauser.
( 2)c.NHarwood.
( 3)N.Tiompson.
( 4)WW. Eastman.
( mMcOlT.
( 6)J.a.Byor.
< 7)T.c.Boston.
( 8H.s.Torbert.
( 9)aB.West.
(10)B,WLancaster.
(11)L.Nnvman.
(1.2)J.Foster.
(13)D.A.Schoorke.
(14)R.DJ.Weaver.
(15)P.II.Hamm Hi.
(10)IT.JflI laminili.
(17)B.IS.Squires.
(18)A.(!.1 )arnoll.
(111)J.11.Van Saun.
(20)M.AHolt.
Edna -Sellers, 1914, M. M. C. S.. was 
married on December 28 to Gilbert W. 
McDougall. They will reside in 
Greenville, Pa.
The Youngstown Clan express 
their sympathy to Miss Winifred 
Lynn because of the recent death of 
her mother.
Sympathy is also extended to Miss 
Mary Owens of New Castle because of 
the sudden death of her brother, 
Reubel Owens.
The Clan will be entertained by 
the Youngstown girls during the first 
Week of February.
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
(Continued "From Page One.) 
announced the sale of postcards of 
the football team in order to raise 
the necessary money for gold footballs.
Mr. Johnston presented a new song 
for acception as a Tech song. The 
Glee Club quartet concluded the pro
gram with a few well received num
bers.
INTER-FRATERNITY DORM.
BASKET BALL LEAGUE
(Continued From Page One.)
should see him for details. He will 
also assign thle different organiza
tions definite times to practice.
The teams have been divided into 
two leagues as listed below*. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Squaile and Compass 
Delta Epsilon Omega 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
Sigma Nu
Woodlawn Club 
Dormitory 2 
Delta Upsilon 
Opheleum 
Iota Sigma Delta 
Sigma. Epsilon Phi 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Alpha Pi 
Phi Epsilon Pi 
XI Sigma Upsilon 
Kappa Sigma Itho 
Dormitory 1 
Dormitory 4 
Dormitory 0 
Theta XL 
Beta Theta Pi 
Tau Gamma Phi
The schedule for the first two 
weeks of the season is as follows: 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
January 20
Tau Gamma Phi vs. Phi Epsilon Pi.
Beta Theta Pi vs. Xi Sigman Upsil
on.
Kappa Sigma Rho vs. Dormitory G.
Dormitory 1 vs. Theta Xi.
January 26.
Dormitory 1 vs. Dormitory 0.
Dormitory 4 vs. Theta Xi.
January 27.
Xi Sigma Upsilon vs. Tau Gamma 
Phi.
Kappa Sigma Rho vs. Beta Theta 
Pi.
Phi Epsilon Pi vs. Alpha Pi. 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
January 18.
Delta Epsilon Omega vs. Square 
and Compass.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs." Sigma 
Epsilon Pi
All lanspppf .ppppppp shrdlu etat 
GAMBOL OF the Guilds....................
Woodlawn Club vs. Sigima Delta.
Dormitory 2 vs. Opheleum.
January 25.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon vs. Square 
and Coinpas3.
Woodlawn Club vs. Sigma Epsil
on Pi.
Dormitory 2 vs: Iota Sigma Delta. 
January 26.
Opheleum vs. Delta Upsilon. 
January 27.
Delta Epsilon Omega vs. Sigma Nu.
MENORAH SOCIETY
The next meeting of the Menorah 
Society will be hield at the Rodof 
Shalom Temple, Fifth near Morewood 
avenue, on Tuesday, January 25, at 8 
p. m. sharp.
The last meeting of the Menorah 
Society proved to be one of the most 
interesting so far. The speaker of the 
evening was Rabbi Kahn of the Beth 
Shalom congregation, Squirrel Hill, 
one of the originators of the Menorah 
Society, which had its start at Yale 
University in 1900.
Vi&iVv POVJN 
ABU.VTY 
AVEHUr 
AND VOULL 
SE A 
ViELLP Aft ADE .
S
AUNTER down Ability Ave
nue until you come to Suc
cess Street and you'll find 
yourself in a well dressed com
pany of able citizens, many of 
whom are patrons of this store 
.for men.
if you would clothe yourself 
in a manner that your ability 
deserves at a price that won't 
fret your finances, this is the 
place for you to
Dress up!
Your choice of any Suit or 
Overcoat in the store
$35.00
Values up to $100.00.
Nothing reserved.
(ylZl Penn &rA,t
TECHS ATHLETIC DRIVE
FRANK BROTHERS
FIFTH AVENUE BOOT SHOP
NEAR FORTY-EIGHTH STREET, NEW YORK 
BOOTS, SLIPPERS, HOSIERY FOR MEN, WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN
Pittsburgh, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGO
Michigan Blvd.
Bldg. Comer 
Washington St.
ST. LOUIS
Arcade Building
NEW HAVEN
Hotel Taft. 
BOSTON. 
Little Building 
CLEVELAND 
Athletic Club
Building
WASHINGTON
Woodward Bldg. 
opp. Shoreliam 
Hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
Whitney Bldg. 
133 Geary St.
(Continued From I-age One.) 
provi<'<1 tho sooner will our athletics 
progress and In direct ratio, the num
ber and calibre of our student body."
Many other schools of like endow
ment and student body have been able 
to build up an athletic system, and 
through tho athletics the school itself, 
but this has been a gradual process 
and has required tho same thing ex
pected and aslced of Tech alumni 
money and support. It has been al
most a physical impossibility for Tech 
athletics to proceed further, because 
no funds are available from the 
foundation, and with the exception of 
football, but slight support has been 
given the athletic treasury. As in 
most colleges, a small group of old 
grads and younger alumni have con
tributed from time to time, but no response^ has yet been' received from 
the mass of former students and 
alumni.
The present campaign will be in
augurated so as to bring the actual 
fund-raising period during the last two 
weeks of February. Plans for co-operation of the various clans, school 
groups, fraternities, women grads, 
night school men, classes and others 
eligible for Tech alumni membership 
are being prepared by the committee 
appointed hy Mr. Haaran, and will be 
presented to the committee of ten 
shortly. Approval of these plans and 
suggestions will then be given. Among 
the features discussed and contem 
plated is the idoa of soliciting the pub
lic on the same basis as the alumni 
bodythe sale of a ton dollar athletic 
membership ticket. No "donations 
will be sought, tho idea being simply 
to raise the necessary funds solely 
through tho sale of athletic admis
sions.
Mr. Haaren announced yesterday 
that he and his committee hope to bo 
ablo to lay tho entire plan beforo tho 
alumni and students after tho next 
meeting, which will bo hold on Mon
day, January 17. Sub-committees and 
chairmen are being selected, and It is 
believed that this will be tho most 
thorough and greatest effort over at
tempted by the men of Tech since 
190S.
THE TURKISH ----- CIGARETTE
all or part of the 1007 Turkish tobaccos of the purest 
and be& varieties grownor if we substituted inferior 
grades of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt be MUR ADStheyd only be 
Foxes 1
Judge for yourself / 
Special attention is called 
to Murad20sin TinBoxesfe***and EqypUan&ganticsm iheNbrid
HAVE YU HEARD ABOUT THE DRIVE?
