VOL. XIX No. 33CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MAY 26, 1925
FRATERNITIES 
CONSIDER CO-OP 
BUYING SCHEME
An Honest Unbiased Presentation of All Campus News 
And a Straightforward Editorial Policy is Tartan Plan
L. P. Beebe of Commercial 
Eng. Dept. Initiates Plan; 
Stewards Meet
WOULD HIRE EXPERT
Mimeographed Reports 
Would be Issued; To Hold 
2nd Conference May 26
A committee composed of L. P. 
Beebe, N. P. Mitchell and H. N. 
Smith initiated a movement which 
resulted in a conference of stew
ards of the social fraternities for 
the discussing of the possibilitity of 
co-operating in the purchase of sup
plies next year. It was the opinion 
of tbe assembled stewards that by 
organizing and by hiring a part time 
man, they would be abldi to buy co
operatively, send mimeographed ma
terial regularly to the steward of 
each fraternity furnishing him with 
information concerning food and 
house supplies and the prices and 
the places at which the same- could 
'be procured most economically, and 
plan general menus which would 
give' better and a greater -variety of 
food for the same money.
One of the big problems that is 
present in any fraternity is the pro
curement of food and general house 
supplies. It is hardly possible for 
the steward who is usually a stu
dent, to keepin touch with a var
iable market close enough to know 
where food can be procured most 
economically. It is also very diffi
cult to plan varied menus at a rea
sonable cost.
The plan will require for its exe
cution only a nominal sum from each 
fraternity. An assessment of five 
dollars per month from each of the 
co-operaating fraternities was sug
gested tentatively. The regular in
formation which would be sent to the 
steward of each fraternity concern
ing prices and most economical 
, places to buy, would alone repay the 
nominal assessment.  In addition 
much money can be saved by co-op
erative buying. A committee is at 
present gathering information con
cerning the co-operation of Pittsburgh 
merchants which will be reported 
at the next meeting of the stewards 
to be held Tuesday evening, May 26, 
at eight p. m.. at the Woodlawn 
iClub. Every fraternity is. urged to 
discuss the matter thoroughly so that 
it may report its Willingness to co
operate.
0 ___________________
DR. GOTT TO HEAD TUFTS 
ENGLISH DEPARTMENT
An honest, straightforward, un
biased presentation of all campus 
news and a full recognition of its re
sponsibilities as the sole purveyor of 
information to the students, are the 
foundations on which The Tartan 
will build its. policies for the coming 
year.
No issues will be sidestepped and 
in every case The Tartan will not 
only endeavor to present both pro and 
con, but also to bring to light all 
relevant material that may help to 
solve the perplexity. Where opinions 
are offered, they will be the culmina
tion of a careful survey of the situa
tion under consideration, rather than 
the vacuous rumblings of a too volu
ble pen.
Specific Aims.
Specific aims of the incoming staff 
include the stimulation of a more ac
tive in faculty-student relations, the 
direction of definite attention to four 
school problems and aspirations, the
Bad news seems much worse when 
set up in newspaper type than it does 
when it is spoken, or even in its 
verbal state. There is a certain cold 
finality about the printed word that 
impresses one with the futility of try
ing to set about changing or disbe
lieving the words themselves.  6'o 
with this piece of news. Dr. Gott is 
leaving Carnegie at the close of this 
term, to . return to Tufts College, 
from which college he was graduated 
some years ago. The change as it 
affects him is a favorable one, for he 
will return to his Alma Mater as head 
of the English department: as it af
fects us. the change will mean che 
loss of one of the most able of pro
fessors. as well as one of the most 
charming of men on Carnegie's 
faculty.
Dr. Gott has had a most interest
ing career up to this point, and it 
looks as though all the interest is to 
continue. He came here in 1919. im
mediately after receiving his Doctors 
degree from Harvard, from which in
stitution he also received his M. A. 
degree. Before his advent at Carne
gie, he taught English at both Har
vard and Radcliffe, 'and we consider
ed ourselves very lucky to obtain him 
as a member of our faculty in 19.19.
In six years he has been with this 
: institution, Dr. Gott has been very 
active in all faculty affairs. Last 
year he was Chairman, of Faculty, 
and this year he was President of the 
American Association of University 
Professors.  This year he also acted 
as. Chairman of the Faculty Welfare 
Committee, and as the Director of 
the Pittsburgh Center of the Drama 
frv.ntinued on Page Four.)
E.G. PIERSON TO BE 
JOURNAL EDITOR
F.L. Wagner Made Business 
Manager at Meeting of 
the Staff
development of better class rela
tions, and the carrying out and pro
motion of Carnegie traditions.
In the past, co-operation between 
faculty and students has been very 
mechanical and haphazard. Neither 
has made ny real concessions to the 
other, mutual distrust has been very 
evident and no one has given the prob
lem recognition as one of real im
port. In most cases the two bodies 
have operated independently and 
have regarded intercourse as a neces
sity imposing restrictions to be toler
ated rather than welcomed as a means 
to a better end.
To eliminate this malady and sub
stitute for it a feeling of brotherhood 
and a desire for a better understand
ing and thorough recognition of indi
vidual difficulties. The Tartan will 
endeavor to illuminate the attitudes 
of both sides with such light that 
neither may harbor any misappre
hensions of the others intent.
CARL WINNING 
TARTAN EDITOR 
FOR NEXT YEAR
Staff Members Receive Promotion For Service on 
Campus Weekly
Our Future.
Now the question arises of whither 
are we heading. Shall we produc.6 
skilled artists and artisans or shall 
we merely trive to instill the savoirfaire of the well-rounded college man?
Let us pin our aims to some fixed j 
star and even if our goal does not 
soar to the illustrious height of fiftytwo stories, at least we will know 
where we are going and can then 
strive to achieve our purpose.
In the interschool and interclass 
relations there seems to be a great 
deal of .misvndorstandlng and at timns Christoff Foller, Kimmel and 
rather disagreeable politics are rife.
The Tartan hopes, at least, to prove j 
to Industries men that the Engineers 
are not attempting to proselytize all 
the Plebes, and to the Science men. 
that the Industries, school does after 
all possess a few high spots in addi-1 
tion to gaboons in the lower corri
dor. To disseminate sweetness and 
(Continued on Page Two.)
V V V V V
 THISTLE AVAILABLE
ROOM 149, INDUSTRIES
V. B. SMITH BUS. MGR.
Barbrow Gain Important 
Positions
WAYNE KOPPES WINS PRIZE
AS BEST SENIOR ARCHITECT
SITZLER MAN. EDITOR
Election of the staff for the Car
negie Technical Journal of 1925-26, \ 
was held Thursday. The new staff
is as follows :
Editor-in-Chief................E. J. Pierson
Business Manager........F. L. Wagner
Managing Editor...............R. R. Sitzler
Circulation Manager_____D. P. Young
Advertising Manager____R. W. Hand
The other officers will be elected 
by the staff some time in the future. 
The Student Council at their next 
meeting will pass on the new staff.
E. G. Pierson, who is the new Edi
tor-in-Chief, is a commercial engi
neer, (and a member of Delta Mu 
fraternity. F. L. Wagner, the new 
Business Manager, is also a commer
cial engineer, he belongs to Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon fraternity, Theta Tau, 
and is president of the local chapter 
of the Society of Industrial Engi
neers.
A new constitution lias been drawn 
up to be effective next year. The 
new staff believes that this will aid 
them in making the Journal a decided 
success. They will also strive to 
make the magazine more interesting 
to the student. There is room on 
the staff for other men who can get 
summer assignments from E. G. Pier
son or William Bitler. This will aid 
the new staff when it begins work 
next year, as well as give the work
ers a chance for a key.
DRAMA DEPARTMENT TO 
PRESENT FOUR ONE-ACTS
Beginning Saturday evening. May 
30, and ending the following Wednes
day, June 3, four one-act Plays, "The 
Light in the Dark, Pierrot. Dodds 
Boy" and Trouping in the Sticks, 
written by students of the Drama De
partment will be presented.
The Light in the Dark, written 
by Phillip R. Thorne, a student of the 
Drama is a colorful modern melo
drama. This act shows a rich man 
who brings disgrace into another 
family by jailing a son for a crime 
which the rich man knows he had 
never committed. Later his own con
science forces out the truth and he 
frees the son. Robert Alderdice, Har
old Minor, Ben Weinblatt and Harry 
Mervis will present this play.
The second one-act play is the tra
gedy Pierrot written by Robert Gunder, a freshman in the Drama Depart
ment.
It is a story of Pierrot who is in 
love with Pierrette. He is in a dun
geon writing songs to gain his free
dom. A stranger comes to Pierrot 
and promises him the kings ring 
which means freedom, if Pierrot will 
w'rite him a song. Later Pierrot finds 
that the ring is false and he kills him
self. The cast supporting this act are 
Emerson Hall, Warren Kimball." 
Maury Tuckerman and Herman
Greenberg.
Harriet Walker, a 1924 alumnae, 
has written Dodds Boy, a scene of 
country life in which a country boy 
desires to spend money which he can
not obtain from his cruel father. His 
desires become so strong that he 
steals his fathers savings. His fath-' 
(Continued on Page Two.)
To Hold Commencement Ball
In Arts Foyer Tuesday, June 9
at Carnegie. It will undoubtedly 
meet their expectations and remain 
an event Jong to be remembered by 
the graduating class.
1 The Arts Foyer will be decorated 
be for seniors and their friends only. qui-te elaborately with palms and
The annual Commencement Ball 
will be held in the Arts Foyer, Tues
day, June 9.
The affair will be informal and will
Wayne F. Koppes has been awarded 
the annual medal and prize given by 
the Pittsburgh Chapter of the Amer
ican Institute of Architects  to the 
best senior student in architecture at 
Carnegie. Koppes was nominated 
for the honor by the faculty of the 
Department of Architecture, College 
of Fine Arts.
Koppes, with George N. Pauly, a 
Carnegie graduate, was also selected 
recently by*the Beaux Arts Institute 
of Design to enter the final competi
tion for the John Stewardson Mem
orial Scholarship offered annually to 
architects of Pennsylvania. Only five 
were chosen for the final judgment.
V. B. SMITH EDITOR 
TRI-PUBLICATIONS
BACH CHORUS WILL REHEARSE 
TODAY IN ARTS, 160, AT 4:30
There Will be a rehearsal of the 
Bach Chorus this afternoon at 4:30 
in Room 160, Arts School, in prepa
ration for the chorus appearance at 
the Baccalaureate service. The few 
rehearsals between now and June S 
make it imperative that each member 
attend this rehearsal.
DR. BAKER REVIEWS 
CARNEGIE R. 0. T. C.
Mr. Porter, Carnegie Trustee, 
is in Reviewing Party; 
Kiltie Band Plays
STUDENTS IN CHARGE
On Thursday, May 21, the Carnogie 
R. O. T. C- battalion was reviewed 
on dress parade in honor of President 
Baker, by a distinguished party in
cluding Dr, Baker, John L. Porter, 
President of the Board of Trustees, 
Sheriff Woodside, Director Mott of 
Science School, Colonel Fairly, Ma
jor Mingos, and Captain Hutson.
The review was planned by Major 
Taylor, head of the Military Depart
ment, but was executed entirely by 
students under the command of the 
following cadet officers:
J. L. Knight, cadet major; J. B. Jarema, cadet adjutant; D. C. LHeureux, cadet captain, Company A; L. 
H. Harris, cadet captain, Company B; 
L. C. Hughes,- cadet captain, Com
pany C.
The companies formed at 11:35, ac
companied by the Kilties Band in full 
regalia. At 11:45 the reviewing party 
took its position on the cut. Inspec
tion was held after which the troops 
paraded for about fifteen minutes in 
column platoons before being dis
missed.
This final review is an annual ev
ent, designed to demonstrate the pro
gress that has been made by the de
partment during the year. It is one 
of the few occasions on which the en
tire student army is assembled. The 
ceremony also marks the final ap
pearance of the cadet officers as 
such, as they receive their commis
sions as Reserve Officers in the regu
lar army on graduation.
The price of admittance will be $2.50 
per couple.
The committee in charge, which 
consists of Cal Lundquist, chairman, 
Frank Powers, Duncan Doig. and Jos. 
Steeh. have been, working very hard 
to make the ball a fitting climax to 
the long succession of successful so
cial events which have been held by 
the class of 25 during their four years
hangings. The decorations will lend 
the proper atmosphere for an occa
sion such as this. The programs will 
be attractive and a novelty in tbe 
true sense of the word. Refreshments 
will be served later in the evening.
This will be the last official gather
ing of the Class of 1925 and should 
prove a true celebration of the gradu
ation which will take place in the I struction, 
morning. treasurer.
E. R. JONES IS PRESIDENT
OF WESTERN ASSOCIATION
The Western Association  held its 
last meeting of the year on Friday, 
May 15, when the Westerners on the 
Carnegie Campus gathered at a 
luncheon held in the Commons. The 
luncheon was a splendid success, and 
those who attended were highly 
pleased with the menu and program 
that had been arranged for them. Pro
fessor wanson, chairmen of the As
sociation Council, acted as toastmas
ter, and Mr. Creenhood of the faculty 
and Clarence Udd, the president of 
the association, made short talks. 
Miss -Medloch gave a piano solo, and 
C. F. McClelland lead the gathering 
in the song Out where the West Be
gins.
The officers of the association for 
next year were elected at the lunch
eon. E. R. Jones, Delta Chi Rho, a 
senior in Commercial Science, who
E. J. Cerutti and Bill Kimmel 
Important Members of 
Next Years Staff
AMBITIOUS PROGRAM
The stuff of tlio Tri-Publications 
for next year has .as Editor-in-Chief, 
Vincent B. Smith; Business Manager, 
Edward J. Cerutti, and Managing 
Editor, William J. Kimmel. Such 
an efficient and hard working group 
of leaders argues well for three 
successful publications, tho Student 
Handbook, often spoken of as the 
Plebe Bible, tho Student Direc
tory and the Carnegie Song Book.
V. B. ,S!mith, tl'io new editor-inchief, is a Junior in civil engineer
ing, a member of Phi Kappa, PI 
Delta Epsilon, Theta Tail, and a 
pledge to the Clef Club. Ho is also 
an important cog of The Tartan, be
ing the business manager for the 
coming year. "Vince has the abil
ity to organize, and a pleasing per
sonality that will draw him plenty 
of workers for tho staff, thus insur
ing him a successful year as pilot* 
of tills growing organization.
The business manager for next 
year, E. J. Cerutti, is a student of 
mechanical engineering, a plodgo to 
the Clef Club, and was recontly elect
ed business manager of the famous 
Kiltie Band for noxl year. Ho Is a 
glutton for hard work, and no job Is 
too hard for him to tackle. He 
shmild bo a great factor In the work 
of Tri-Publications.
W. J. Kimmel, Llio managing editor 
for 1925-26, is a member of Kappa 
Sigma Rho, Tau Beta Pi and Sine 
Nomine. The Department of Physics 
claims him as a studonl, and Tlie 
Tartan as Alumni Editor for tho en
suing year. Bill is one of tho bright
est of Juniors as evidenced by his 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
C. I. T. COMMERCIAL CLUB 
IS GIVEN S. I. E CHARTER
Last week at the National Con
vention of the Society of Industrial 
Engineers, a charter was granted to 
the Commercial Club of Carnegie. 
This charter was at one time held by 
an organization composed of students 
In the Department of Machinery Pro
duction, but it was withdrawn a few 
years ago because it was felt that 
that course was not suited to the 
aims of the society.
The installation of Carnegies 
chapter of S. 1. E. was in charge of 
Dr. W. F. Rittman, first vice presi
dent of the national organization. 
About forty members were present 
at the installation which was held 
in the Commercial Club room last 
Thursday.
To be eligible to the society one
W. Carl Winning. Junior in the Col
lege of Engineering, has been chosen 
to carry the burden of directing the 
policy of the Carnegie Tartan for the 
coming year, as a result of the annual 
election held last week by tho execu
tive committee of the publication, con
sisting of Fred C. Smith, retiring edi
tor; W. M. Gibson, business manager, 
and Fred T. Phelps, retiring managing 
editor.. His election is hailed with 
satisfaction by all concerned with the 
Tartan.
Carl has spent four years on tho 
Tartan staff as reporter and news oditor, and during that time has .shown 
exceptional ability as a writer. His 
enthusiastic interest in the paper and 
his popularity among his associates 
made his election unanimous. In ad
dition to his work as news editor, Carl 
has just completed a successful job 
as the publicity managor of Campus 
Week. He lias also servod as^sales 
manager of the first Song Book, asso
ciate editor for three years of tho 
Technical Journal and circulation 
manager of last years Campus Week 
daily.
He is a member of Delta Chi Rho 
fraternity, Pi Delta Epsilon, National 
journalistic honorary; Thota Tau, En
gineering honorary; Castle, military 
honorary, Tau Beta PI, scholarship 
honorary, and was pledged to Dra
gons on Tap Day of the recont Cam
pus Week,
In his writings, Mr. Winning shows 
cleverness, humor and originality. His 
Natural progressivoness, combined 
with a cool head, prosage a very suc
cessful year for tho Tartan.
For business manager, Vincent B. 
Smith has been solectod. V. B. has 
served tho paper Tor two years, ono 
as roporter, and ono as nows editor. 
He has shown great interest In his 
work and desorvos the honor ho has 
won.
Smith belongs to Phi Kappa frater
nity, Thota Tau and Pi Delta Epsilon 
honorarlos, Ho is a pledge to l.lie 
Clef Club, musical honorary. As ed
itor of the Tri-Publications staff, lie Is 
In charge of the Student Directory, 
the Studonl; Handbook and tho Song 
Book. Ho Is a Junior in tlio College 
of Engineering.
For tlio position or managing editor, 
Joe Christoff has boon chosen, replac
ing Fred pholps. Little need bo said 
about Joe, who Is known to every stu
dent on tlio campus. He is a member 
of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and of 
Pi Delta Epsilon. Druids, Delta Skull 
and is a pledge to Dragons. Ho has 
earned ins letter In football, and will 
receive one in baseball. Joe was a 
great help to the truck team on sever
al occasions .this spring, and should 
earn a letter in this sport before he Is 
through school.
Joe was president of the Industries 
Junior class this year, and served as 
sporting editor of the Tartan.
(Continued on Page Two.)
354 GRADUATE JUNE 9;
M. I. PUPIN IS SPEAKER
This years Thistle can be procured1 by tho students any tinio *2* 
this week at Room 1-19, Indus- ? 
tries. Beginning Monday and ex- * 
tending through to Friday, between tho hours of 11:30 and *1* 
1:30, the year books will be *J* 
available to those fortunate v
* enough to possess the necessary *:
? receipts. *
?J Everyone should remember
* that it is impossible to get a
< Thistle without showing a conI* pon to the effect that a payment v
? has been made on it. Besides, 
the remainder of the payment %
*! must be made at that time.
Receipts were, sold in tho *J*
* fall for $2.50. Two dollars must * 
be paid now, making the total
? price $4.50.
BOAT RIDE AiND 
PICNIC TO OPEN 
SENIOR REVELS
LEBAR0N MANAGER 
OF MUSICAL CLUBS
Hollinshead, Mascharka,Nern 
and Wingold Are Other 
New Officers
NEW SYSTEM STARTS
The Musical Clubs held their annual 
banquet at the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association last Friday evening. 
George I. LoBaron was elected man
agor for tho coming year, and A. V. 
Norn and A. C. Wingold his first as
sistants. Merrill Hollinshead Is tho 
now publicity managor; L. A. Mascharka, stage managor, and 1M. W. 
Stump, and R. S. Slear, second assist
ant managors and librarians.
Tho managor for the coming year 
is a junior oloclrical. qjeorgo Is in 
Eta Kappa Nu, a pledge to the CloC 
Club, Chairman of tho A. 1. ID. TO., 
and a member of tho Campus Wook 
electrical construction committoo. In 
his capacity as first assistant man
agor, LoBaron has showed marked 
ability, and should make next yoar 
a banner year .for the musical clubs.
A. V. Norn, a first assistant man
ager is a sophomoro In tho Departmont of Music., Ho Is a member of 
the Woodlawn Club and of tho Clot 
Club, Nows Editor of The Tartan for 
tho coming yoar, on Tho Thistle 
Board, and has boon a soloist with 
the Qloe Club during the past season.
Tlio other first assistant managor, 
A. C. Wingold, Is a SOphomoro archi
tect, a member of Della Upslton, nnd 
has sung on tho Kiltie, Quartet.
Merrill Hollinshead, the publicity 
Manager, Is a sophomoro In music, a 
member of tho Woodlawn Club, a. 
pledge to tlio Clef Club, Assistant 
Managing Editor of The Tartan, and 
was on the music cominlltoo for "Col
legia toly Speaking.
Tho Stage Manager for the' ensuing 
year Is Louis A, Maschnrka, n junior 
in electrical engineering, a member 
of Phi Kappa. A. I. IQ. IQ., and of tho 
Newman Club.
M. W. Stump is a socond assistant 
managor and Is a music student. He 
Is a member of tho Woodlawn Club, 
a pledge to Druids, Troasuror of tho 
Music Department, Tartan reporter, 
Thistle salesman, and is tho student 
diroctor of the Instrumental Club. He 
Is also an assistant track manager.
Ralph Slear, also a second assist
ant manager, Is a freshman architect. 
He is pledged to Sigma Nu, and is 
a member of the Kiltie Quartet.
The banquet was very informal be
ing served as a buffet dinner, and 
this helped to make the gathering 
more friendly, and everybody mixed. 
After a few numbers by the Kiltie 
Quartet, Mr. Kecble, Mr. QBrien, 
Lloyd Yoder, Al Johnson, and the 
seniors and new officers came through 
with a few remarks.
The new stystem of managers was 
explained by the new manager. Tie 
emphasized the point that the posl(Continued on Page Two.)
AT ANNUAL CIVILS BANQUET
During the annual banquet of the 
Carnegie chapter of the American So
ciety of Civil Engineers which was 
held at the Ruskin apartments last 
Wednesday evening, the results of 
the election of officers for next year
A class of 354, constituting one of 
the largest to leave the institution, 
will he graduated next month from 
Carnegie Tech. Preparations to 
wind up the present college year are
now being made, with final examina -ANNOUNCE A. S. C. E. OFFICERS 
tions scheduled for the coming two 
must be a Junior or a Senior in the f weeks, and with a committee of senDepartment of Commercial Engineer- j i0rs already arranging the program 
ing, must be of creditable scholastic j for Commencement Week, 
standing, and must show interest in j Commencement Week is scheduled 
campus activities. The organization to begin Thursday, June 4. The Bacis rated as one of the best'in the I ealaureate Service will be held Sunfield of industrial engineer. ! day evening, June 7, in Carnegie MuOfficers for the ensuing year have j sic Hall, and the Commencement Ex-I was announced. W. E. Miller was
been elected as follows: President, j ercises will be conducted Tuesday elected president; F. W. Swaile vice
Frank L. Wagner; vice President, j morning, June 9, in Carnegie Music president; A. G. Wilson treasurer; 
L. C. Lustenberger; secretary, Rob-Hall. Rev. Dr. W. Russell Bowie, rec- and R. D. Gaylor, secretary. The ofert V. Reiner, and treasurer, John j tor of Grace Episcopal Church, in flees of president, secretary and treaA. Cooke. j New York City, and Dr. Michael I. surer are held by seniors, and the of------------------,------ | Pupin, noted scientist, Inventor, and I fice of vice president is held by a
A. I. E. E. OFFICERS ELECTED professor of electro-mechanics at Co- junior.
AT ELECTRICAL BANQUET ! lumbia University, have accepted In--------- I vitations from President Thomas S.
Officers of the A; f. E. E. for next Baker to speak at the Baccalaureate 
year were selected at the Electrical erv*CR ani* Commencement Exbanquet hold Thursday night at the fi,,clses, respectively.
Fort Pitt Hotel. The men receiving of Engineering lends
tho honors are G. Le Baron, chair- thd ofher ,hrn0 egos of the instltute In number of gradiml.es with 122 
this year. The Margaret Morrison
I Carnegie College and tho College of 
Fine Arts will each graduate 78, and 
the College of Industries will confer 
documents of graduation on 7(J,
Luncheon, Tea, Theatre Party 
For Women; Informal 
Banquet For Men
GALA WEEK JUNE 4-9
Class Supper June 8 at Inn 
Minetti and Daschoach 
Will Entertain
Make merry, for tomorrow we must 
work! Tjiint is ono way of explaining 
the sentiment behind Senior Week, 
to bo colobrated by Carnegies outgo
ing leaders from June ! to 9. A 
week of merry-making, of pleasant 
reminiscences of true paldom before 
tho Mends of the four years strug
gle are separated, is in prospect.
Tho Senior boat rule and picnic, a 
tradition of two years standing, on 
tho good old 1-Iomor Smith, opens 
the festivities. The boat will go! 
about fifteen miles down the river 
whero a basket lunch to bo provided 
by the couples themselves will bo 
indulged in. Tho boat will return 
at 7:00 p. m.
On Friday a luncheon for women 
at McCreerys will be followed by 
an afternoon at tho Davis Theater. 
The regular tags will not be good 
for those affairs, or for tho mens 
banquet at tho Morrowfiold Apart
ment Hotel that evening. This ban-, 
quot. Is Informal.
Tho alumnaQ of Margaret Morrison 
will follow the usual custom, giving 
a toil for women at tho Margaret 
Morrison Faculty Club Room on Sat
urday. On Sunday tho 'Sonlors will 
bo warned! rogulodi and sont 011 their 
way by tho baccalaureate lecturer. \
Baseball games will opon the two 
final days of concontratod entertain
ment. Tho Girls team from Arts 
School will moot tho Misses Magglo 
Murphi At tho same time two teams 
from Science School will tackle Aivls 
and Indus tl'io. The Ed and Co-ed 
swim will follow, and In tho evening 
a supper exclusively for Seniors 
there Is a special charge for this 
event will hold the center of the 
stage, Except for tho ball, tills Is 
tho major ovo.il of the wook. After 
tho 'banquet homo talent entertain
ment, featuring tlio famous MliiottlDaschbuch loam, will bo served as 
a chaser. "FnnlnullclcH," to ho pre
sented by the Drama Department at 
tho Sylvan Theater, will clone tho 
days activities.
On the morning of Tuesday, the 
ninth, the lll.fl scrolls so rich In In
trinsic value, will he presented by 
President Baker, at the Curnoglo 
Music Mall. The president and fac
ulty heartily urge all Seniors, their 
parents and Intimate friends, to at
tend the rocoptlon in tho Arts Foyer 
at 12:JI0, A luncheon will bo served.
The Commencement Ball, tho tie*, 
tails of which announced In a special 
article, will be tho grand finalefitting climax to any college career. 
Special tlckels will bo sold.
Senior Week lias been shortened 
one day and tho major ovonts con
centrated in an effort to prevent tho 
fatigue that often spoils such pleas
ure campaigns'. Wayne Koppors urges 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
FEE FOR SENIOR BALL 
DEFENDS ON TAG SALE
II, Ashworth, secretary, and A. Car 
son, treasurer.
I The officers-elect were installed in 
their new positions by the retiring... ...... .. ...y ,,, 1  . I 1 I W >. I | III' II Ml 1,1 I-.I >1 II III' Mill  111 III.
hails from Wichita. Kansas, was elect- cl)a,rman  W*011* and plans for Jn ^ 2gQ ,)acfu.lorn, degrees, in*
id president; R. A. Bookmeyer, Delta a l))Kger and better organization an- j jn^ 211 as Bachelor of Science,
Pittsburgh is noted for Its tag days. 
Every day on every corner one Is 
tackled and asked to "shell out for 
a cause returning 110 dividendsthe 
purpose of which is unknown to the 
poor victim. But the tag offered to
daythe three dollar tag for Senior 
Weekis different. Unfortunately. 
Carnegie has still to learn that unless 
tickets of' admission are bought in ad
vance, committees cannot complete 
their plans, and many of the enter
tainment possibilities are loBt. Sen
iors are- heartily urged to get their 
tags today. The senior class treasur
er of each,school is handling tlie sale. 
Tlie tags cover all events except the 
Womens Luncheon and Matinee, the 
Mens Banquet and the Commence
ment Ball. All social seniorsstu
dents who are on the campus for at 
least their fourth year are eligible 
If enough tags are sold In ndvance, 
the price of the ball will be cut some
what.
Campus Week Committee Writes
Grateful Letters to Benefactors
Upsilon, a senior in Commercial En-nounced.
We wish to thank particularly the 
Dormitory men for their untiring ef
forts to make the  C. W, Migratory 
a succoss. Tho Union was very ap
propriately filled with trained parrots, 
who uttered incessantly such delight
ful Incantations as "Dam the Sig
mas. To Hell with the Betas, and
We wish to thank tho Maggie 
Murphfl for their Indefatigable efforts 
In the construction of the colossal 
arch a I the entrance to the campus. 
They have* established an undying 
name for themselves In archery.
The H. O. 'I'. C, are also to be con
gratulated. ' Their execution of At
retary. and Frank Saylor. Alpha Sig
ma Phi, a junior in Building Con
front Detroit, Michigan,
ment. The turnout was the largest 
at any event of the organization 
this year, and presages well for the 
| future of the A. I. E. E.
and 69 as Bachelor of Arts,'will be the like. The tropical atmosphere I Trail : Marchwith guns already
first
water. Also that maneuver with bay
onets where they vaccinate each oth
er Jn a place that it wont show was 
psrticualrly effective.
We wish to praise the untiring ef
forts of those who helped to put over 
(Conlinued on Page Two.)
Kineering, from Plattsmoutli, Nebras- Good entertainment, valuable fav-, warded. Sixteen raduates will re- was considerably heightened by tow- Stackedwas a gem of the
ka. vice president; Miss Elizabeth ors- satisfying menu and humorous | ce,-ve degrees as Master of Science, erlng palms sheltering a group of .... A1'"' *1wW -'Oi
McClung. a senior in the Music De- speeches made the banquet the best j two VOLj ]je awarded degrees of Mas- chattering monkeys who threw hairy
nartment, from Portland, Oregon, sec-1 *n the social history of the depart- er 0f Arts and four will be given j cocoanuts at the pirouetting, whirling
nrofessional degrees in engineering, j throng swaying gracefully to the syn 
In addition. 44 students will be award- 1 copat id beat of the orchestra amid a 
ed certificates, and eight diplomas myriad of multicolored, scintillating 
will be awarded. dazzling lights.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 26, 1925
 Carrie jfoan
S Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie institute o 
Technology under the supervision o the Student Council.
Entered in the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
CARL WINNING.....................................................................................Schenley 9070
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
J. M. GOSSR. H. SITZLER
 MANAGING EDITOR
JOE CRISTOFF.........................................................................................Schenley i)H85
R. L. LEPPElt, Assistant........................................................................Scbmiley 01.22
M. T. HOLLINSHEAD, Assistant...............................................................Mussel !M22
, NEW8 EDITORS
A. V. NERN........................................................................................Schenley 407ii*.T
F. A. KOLB.........................................................................................Franklin (54H5-W
1 S. WEIL..........................................................................................................Ha'/el 1)310
FRA TEFFNEISRCAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAOD-PBUYG DHMLMWC
ALUMNI EDITOR
. W. J. KIMMEI.Highland 0127
REPORTERS
M. Tucker, M. Nuttall, M. Cohen, F. L. Grant, E. Ross, F. Finn, A. Wingold, 
 . Kelly, M. Stump, It. M. Pew, F. O. Woods, C. Neu, C. Hrtung.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
CHAD FOLLE I.Highland 9644
J ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
) J. F. Harris, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, Ben Krlstof, J. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
.Franklin 5547-J
ADVERTISING MANAGER
I: ARNOLD PERRETON.rjnloy !)21 I
CIRCULATION MANAGER
L. BARBROW.....................................................................................Highland 4476-R
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metr, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerlo, J. P. Stri/,ale, B. Supowltz, I 
Sachs, H. Kandell, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbblo, Gladys Reynolds, 
W. A. Bernardi, J. M. Alrgood, A. C. Campbell, R. S. Boyd.
With this i88u.0 oi! the Carnegie Tartan, tlie old order cliangeth^ 
giving way to-the new. This is the, last issue which will be published' 
by the present j henceforth now people will be responsible ior the 
paper.
The old stafl! goes out with, few regrets.. Under its regime, the 
paper lias, perhaps, not quite done everything possible, at leust it has 
always been put out with the interest oil the student body at heart. 
We Jicel that our ideals have always been worth while, even though 
not so well expressed in our columns.
We wish to thank the old stafl! J!or the co-operation it has given 
Us throughout the past year. We wish to express our appreciation 
jor the help oi! the Alumni Office, the Athletic Office, the News Bu
reau, the Faculty and the Student Body as a whole.
We feel that the new stafl! is eminently capable oJ: carrying on
1h.e work in a thorough, fashion. The men heading the stafl! for the 
coming year have risen, to their present positions through dint of 
hard labor and interest, and their experience should prove of great 
aid to them in their work. We feel that they will strive to make the 
Carnegie Tartan a better paper, and that they have the right aims 
and objects in view.
We Wish them the best oI: luck for the coming year, and hope
that their term of office may be a happy one.
Th Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
1. Defeat of the Rlffianc.
2. The Fortin In Print Again.
3. The French Debt.
4. Cigaretto Connumptlon In U. S.
6. Gorman Methanol Floodo Market. 
0. European Debtors.
7. Women Suffrage In Italy.
8. Borah Speaks,
9. American Railways.
Due to so many items of importance 
this week, the editor is endeavoring 
l.o cover the field extensively rather 
than a portion of the field Intensively.
Dispatches from Paris confirm the 
rumor that the itlfflans In Morocco 
are losing heavily. The heights of 
Bibane, a point of tremendous stra
tegic Importance in the pivot of Ahdol-Krlms defense lias been taken by 
General de Chanbrun.
ii As the members oi! the new stafl! step in to fill the places of their 
' predecessors, they feel a thrill of pride that they, after much toil and 
ih ope, shall bear the responsibility of publishing for a year, a Tartan 
' which is to satisfy the demands of the students.
1 But it is not with uridimmcd ;joy that the men share their burden, 
for even with the precepts of a department stafl! as guides, they feel 
the uncertainty and trepidation of voyagers embarking upon n new 
.adventure.
To the retiring members the new stali' is indebted for the infinite 
^patience and kindness they employed in initiating the lieophytos to 
their craft, for the sympathy and comradeship they extended to their 
foundling brothers, and for the excellent organization developed and 
( handed down.
/ The now stafl! will. oiiclqtvVor to'improve the Tartan, to incorpor
ea to in it features which should bonofii; as well as interest the stu1 (l(;nts, and if possible, to make it a real factor in improving welfare 
"and raising the repute of Carnegie.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, MAY 26
Baseball Ml;, Bonuvontnro............................3:8() |\ M., Forbes Field
(Smart Alec, anI Amaryllis".......................880 I. IVI,, hittio Theater
c VVlODNKHDAY, MAY
Tenuis -Varsity-.XI l'iti;
u Plebes vs. Pit I; I'Ynshmen. ...................... I*. A. A. 'Courts
FRIDAY, MAY
Tennis- Varsity vs. VV. & I.............. . ......:.! :i)0, Campus Courts
w Ilobes vs. Oral'ton High ..... .....................At Craftou
BUN DAY, MAY :u 
Organ Recital Al Johnson. .. .Carnegie Hall, N. S., 8:30 
SUNDA Y, .111N10 7
Hueealanreate Sermon..........................................8:00 I. M., Music Hall
TUESDAY, .JUNE i>
( ommeneement Exercisos.................................1.0 :30 A. M., Musi Hall
Commencement Ball.............................................9OO I*. M., Arls Foyer
Xi Vew FRTTRw yVm
[]Deur Sir:r
l wish to remark on the conduct 
of some of the men in civilian clothes 
'during the R. O. T. C. drill on Thurs
day.
There is a feeling among some of 
'the men that the R. O. T. C. men are 
'some sort of a joke. We do not mind 
cbeing called "tin soldiers or Boy 
Scouts, but we do mind when some|6ne insults the flag, which we have 
pledged ourselves as American citi?<zens to defend. Thursday/as the flag 
"was leaving the field there were men 
sitting on the senior fence who kept 
Jon laughing and talking. They did 
rnot so much as remove their hats let 
mlone stand at attention. They con
tinued to entertain themselves as the
flag passed within at least ilfteen 
feet of the place where they were 
sitting. On the opposite side of the 
line of march officers wore saluting 
and civilians uncovering and stand
ing at attention so that these men 
did not lack a good example of how 
they should behave.
If these men do not. know how 
properly' to express their respect for 
their flag they might go join the Boy 
Scouts aud find out.
What can be done about it? We, as 
students at Carnegie, must not set a 
bad example to the rest of Pitts
burgh We must pledge ourselves al
ways to show the proper respect to 
the flag.
Sincerely,
A SOLDIER OP THE.R. O. T. C.
CAN HONEST. UNBIASED
PRESENTATION OF ALL 
d CAMPUS NEWS
(Continued From Pago One.) 
light so infectiously, however, as to 
induce Margaret Morrison to oloot an 
(Arts Co-Qd for Campus Queen, is holyond the scope of the present, stafl. 
t Traditions.
As regards traditions, The Tartan 
No strongly In favor of upholding such 
-is have proved their worth and feels 
.hat Plobe regulations and secret bannuets are a very effective stimulus 
Ln promoting good fellowship and fra. 
[(crnal good will. The bonds these 
>.ie and the spirit they instill, create 
(i pride and a jealousy within the 
ritudent which goads him just as ef
fectively in his scholastic efforts ns 
n his search for honors in activities. 
5 Lastly, The Tartan takes full cog
nizance of the fact that the merit of 
" school is determined by the qualty. in learning, adaptability and foreight, of the men it graduates, and 
hat in training its students in these 
ualities, the institution cannot and 
are not deviate from its standards, 
o matter how small or how great 
je digression.
V. B, SMITH, EDITOR
TRI-PUBLICATIONS
(Continued From Page One.)
Tan Botekey, and his brains and 
willingness should prove ample for 
successful management.
Tho now officers have1 already 
started to work on their new duties. 
The "Plobe Bible" Is being whipped 
Into sluvp'o to be out Cor the opening 
of registration next fall, plans are 
In making- to get. the Student; Direc
tory out live weeks after tho ibeglnnlng of classes, and to Include more 
Information than this years edition 
and a new edition of the Song Book 
with the new Carnegie March, sev
eral original^ songs, and a fraternity 
section is in view.
Such an ambitious program will 
require plenty of ability, originality 
and perseverance, and will be a 
worthy test of the heads?of the TriPublications for 1925-1926.
Ras tus: Whyfo does you. call your 
gal "Valspar." Sambo?
Samb: Cause all de boilin watali
in do world aint gwine turn lier 
white.
Northwestern Purple Parrot.
The Fords have twice during the 
week broken Into print, the first time 
hi their negotiations of die shipping 
board, concerning the purchase of 
four hundred ships, the greater part 
of them to be scrapped, and again 
In the latter part of the week when 
the Guardian Detroit Company open
ed Its doors al: 120 Broadway for busi
ness, with Edsel Ford and Ernest 
Kantzler, . both of the Ford Motor 
Company, as directors. The Ford 
capital is believed, to have played a 
very large role. The Ford move is 
the gqneral topic of Wall street con
versation, although It was pointed out 
that tho tremendous amount of* busi
ness that he transacts In the city for 
his foreign trade demands such an 
Institution and, further, that the de
velopment is In direct line with his 
general policy.
A commission composed of Foreign 
Minister Brland and Finance Minis
ter Caillaux has been appointed by 
the cabinet to study the solution of 
Inter-Allied debts. There are In the 
process of forming a committee to 
help them in the work of covering 
tho entire situation. In Paris it is 
construed as formal French recogni
tion of its debts to Britain and to 
the United States. French popular 
opinion, however, Is set against mak
ing a definite arrangement which is 
hound to cause obstacles.
LITTLE CHANGE IN 
SUMMER FACULTY
Carnegie and Pitt Co-operate 
to Give Joint Courses 
During Summer
---------------
SERIES OF LECTURES
iho total elgarotte consumptlon 
Cor tho year 1925 wlll he, according 
to Blair of tho Internai llevenue Of
fice, sevonty-throe billlons, an increase 
of Ilfty-slx billlons in ton years. Tho 
yearly incoine Croni th industry in 
Federai laxes' Is $1*15,000,000.
Due to th dlscovory of a now pro
cessi of produelng methanol, wood aleoliol. Gornmny Is alile to shlp tho 
product bore and pay tho tarili at, 35 
conts a gallpn whlcli undorcuts and 
throatens Ilio ontlre Industry. Our 
product has boen' solllng for 55 conts 
a gallon. Tho attornoya for tho wood 
alenimi business aro petitlonlng th 
prsldent to uso bis powor in IncroasIng ral.es 50 por coni; oli a cluirgo of 
"dumping. Wo domami that Gorinnny pny and al: tho samo timo endoavor to shut oul; all produci by 
wlilch shi orni pny,
Groat Britain, Hungary, Finland, 
Lithuania, and Poland have already 
completed arrangements whereby 
their debts to the IJnltod States are 
funded, Pointed suggestions by our 
Stale Department, not however, In the 
form of peremptory demands, have 
boon made to tin* nine nations not 
having provldod debt arrangements, 
that It; was time that they were so 
doing. These nine nations are France, 
Italy, Belgium, Greece. Roumanla, 
Czoclio * Slovakia, .Tugo-Slavla, Esthonla, and Latavla.
On May 15, In the Italian Chamber 
of Deputies, a bill was passed giving 
the women of Italy the right to voto 
in municipal elections. In return for 
this slight favor, Mussolini has re
organized Italys mobilization orders 
for future wars and has included all 
human beings, both male and female. 
This means that the women of tlie 
country will be drafted into munition 
factories and to the menial tasks 
back of the lines. Better by far put 
them in the front line trenches to 
get the same fate as the men rather 
than a worse one behind the lines.
"Borah wants war considered a 
crime. We agree with Mr. Borali. 
fmt may we not suggest that expe
rience has shown that organization is 
usually the best means for getting 
such a concept, firmly established. 
Has Mr. Borah ever thought of the 
League of Nations?
Continued progress by our railroad 
systems is shown by the announce
ment that at the American Railway 
Association mooting in Chicago, of 
the plans to spend in tho United 
'States this coming year, by the rail
roads in tho first olass, 750 million 
dollars for equipment and capital im
provements. This Is an excellent 
sign and augers well for the future,
CARL WINNING TARTAN
EDITOR FOR NEXT YEAR
(Continued From Pago One)
The remainder of the now staff Is 
as follows:
Assistant Managing Editors- -R. L, 
Lepper. M. T. ITolllnshead.
News EditorsA. Norn. F. A. Kolb, 
Sam Weil, E. Tallmadge.
Advertising ManagerA. Perretou.
Circulation ManagerL. Barbrow.
Associate EditorsJ\ M. Goss, R. 
R. Sitzler.
Athletic EditorJ. A. C. Foller.
Alunuii EditorW. J. Kimmel. 
Women probably figure that buy
ing silk stockings is a good invest
ment 'because they have something 
to show for their money.Stevens 
Stone Mill.
With the exception of several guest 
Instructors engaged* for some of the 
teachers courses, the regular facul
ty staff in charge of tho college in
struction throughout tho year will 
ibe In charge of the work of the sum
mer session tills year at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
Outstanding among tho special 
guest instructors, will be Dr. Will 
Earhart, director of Music of the 
Pittsburgh Public Schools, who will 
give a special series of lectures from 
June 29 to July 3 in connection with 
tho courses for teachers of public 
school music in the College of Fine 
Arts. For the courses offered for 
teachers of art, C. Valentine Kirby, 
State Director of Art in Pennsyl
vania, will give a series of lectures 
from July 29 to July 11.
In addition to the courses on the 
campus of Carnegie, the College of 
Fine Arts will give several courses in 
art and music at the University of 
Pittsburgh. These courses are in
tended primarily for teachers the 
major portion of whose work is in 
non-teclmical fields. The courses in 
art at the ^University will be given 
by Prof. F. C. Clayter of Carnegie 
Tech, assisted by a guest instructor 
in applied art. The courses in music at the University will be con
ducted by MIsb Lillie B. Held, a grad
uate in Public School Music of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, aud 
a teacher of music in the Pittsburgh 
Publio Schools.
The courses for undergraduates 
given in the College of Engineering, 
the College of Industries, the Divi
sion of General Studies, and the De
partment of Architecture will be giv
en from June 15 to August 7. 
Courses for teachers of normal, ap
plied, and industrial arts and of 
public school music will be given 
from June 29 to August 7.
CAMPUS WEEK COMMITTEE
WRITES GRATEFUL LETTER
TO BENEFACTORS
(Continued from Page One.) 
the Mardi Gras. From all accounts 
everybody had a corking good time, 
were as happy as a pole cat whose 
maiden aunt had just died and left 
him a perfume works. The sugges
tion that the General Committee mas
querade in pinch-baclc pajamas with 
a red tag to distinguish, them from 
bootleggers who would wear swallow 
tails, was carried out with surpris
ingly agreeable results.
Wo wish to thank the fraternities 
for their generous support and cooporatlon in all the affairs of Campus 
Week,' especially the Country Fair. 
Tin; kappaslgs solved that .perplexing 
problem of why tlioy have no crazy 
houses ln Arabia; namely and. to wit, 
because they have nomad peoplo 
there. Tho Forbes Hall girls are- to 
be patted on tho back for their stunt; 
By the way, they also furnished Pearl 
Sunde<\vho rode White Tvory to vic
tory in tho Sulky Race. The essaeos 
provided o special accommodations 
for thoir rofurnlng alumni by placing 
ools In the gutter. Tho phlkapnas 
Introduced all Innovation in decora
tion by stringing up fish bowls for 
lawn lanfernrt.
Tho Committee deeply regrets soveral unforseen occurrences: The
Campus Courier was unusually scur
vy and suggestive this year. That 
paragraph labelled "Doan Brown 
takes in Hootchy-Kootcliy Show was 
especially reprehensible: the dis
graceful affair at the William Penn 
Alumni Luncheon, where several pro
fessors and deans had to be removed 
bodily by the police for profanity and 
obscenity also comes in for reproach; 
The Puppet also had to be suppress
ed for the rest of the year for its 
licentious Alumni Issue. That joke 
about the Fraternity Beefstakes. was 
especially raw; the photos taken at 
the Coronation of the Campus Queen 
were also found to be unfit for pub
lication because the photographer for
got to put in the film; and the fact 
that the group of individuals who 
foisted upon lis a Plastic Aged Ford 
boldly stamped Campus Squeak, 
got away without being crowned.
GENERAL COMMITTEE. G C. W.
12:30 P. M 
2:30 P. M 
6:00 P. M
8:00 P. M
10:00 A. M. 
2:30 P- M 
5:30 P. M. 
8:00 P. M.
Senior Week Program
THURSDAY, JUNE FOURTH 
Senior Boat Ride and Picnic.
FRIDAY, JUNE FIFTH
.Womens Luncheon ........................................... McCreerys
.Womens Matinee Theater Party...................................Davis
.Mens Banquet ...........................................Morrowfield Hotel
SATURDAY, JUNE SIXTH
.Alumnae Tea to Women......................M. M. Faculty Room
SUNDAY, JUNE SEVENTH 
,Baccalaureate Sermon
MONDAY, JUNE EIGHTH
Inter-Department Baseball Games..................................Bowl
,Joint Swim....................................................................New Gym
Class Supper..........................................................Carnegie Inn
"FantastlcksDrama Department............Sylvan Theater
TUESDAY, JUNE NINTH
,Commencement Exercises.......................................Music Hall
Reception by President Baker...............................Arts Foyer
10:30 A. M 
12:30 P. M.
9:00 P. M.Commencement Ball.
Seniors should preserve this calendar as it is the only published
j The Chatter Box j
DRAMA DEPT. TO GIVE
FOUR ONE-ACT PLAYS
(Continued From Page One.! 
er, realizing his mistake of being too 
miserly, forgives the boy. Ellsworth 
Perrin, Robert Alderdice, Virginia 
Williams and Margaret Eckhardt are 
the cast in this play.
"Trouping in the Sticks," a good 
modern comedy, is written by Mrs. 
Mildred Harris, of the play writing 
course. A young married couple is 
trouping through the "sticks, play
ing In a second-rate vaudeville show. 
The husband Is quite contented- but 
the wlfo desires to sottlo down. They 
roooivo an opportunity to act: In a 
large play in tho east and later they 
settle down In Now Jersey. The cast 
Includes .Too Wadsworth, Dorothy 
Cohen, Leah Rothman. Mary Powor, 
Alvno Szold and Maury Tuykerman.
These plays are dlrectod by tho 
authors, and are under the super
vision of B. Iden Payne.
Copy is a group of short stories, 
essays, plays, find poems selected 
from the published work of students ; 
in the special writing courses of the 1 
University Extension, Columbia Uni
versity. Every selection in the book 
was written primarily fdr class work; 
after criticism and corrections had 
been made by the instructor, the au
thor rewrote his manuscript and then 
sent it out on its tour of publishers 
offices. Eventually it found a rest
ing place, and from these fortunate 
contributions the selection has been 
made. The contributors to Copy are 
all students, but many of them are 
quite mature; in fact, the younger 
writers are greatly in the minority. 
Varied have been the experiences of 
the contributors, and varied are 
their methods of self-expression.
Tt is interesting first to ''consider 
the subject matter of Copy. The 
spirit of adventure seems to predom
inate the fiction. Of the twelve 
stories included in the volume, six 
have adventure as the central theme. 
The remaining six deal with love, 
hate, and ambition. The most sur
prising part of it all Is that there is 
but one love story; these writers 
seem remarkably wary of - the senti
mental1. Perhaps they do not con
sider love an emotion powerful 
enough to motivate a story worth the 
telling. However that may be, "An 
Engagement on the Rhine, written 
by Frances Kautz Read, is Copys only 
concession to the amorous. "The 
Mouse, May Freud Dickensons prize 
winning story, expresses the utter 
hopelessness of a woman trapped by 
poverty and marriage.
The essays range from "Cooks I 
Have'LovedAnd Lost, Hiy Caroline 
Vose, to "Imperator Africanus, by 
Eric D. Walrond, the Negro editor.
Most of the poems deal with rath
er ordinary subjects, but both the 
plays have unusual themes. "Bush 
Queer, by Claude Habberstad, tells 
of a wild Norwegian boy, Christian, 
who! seems to possess occult powers. 
"Our John, 'by Zilla MacDonald, tells 
the story of a man who preserved his 
wifes faith in their son at the risk 
of losing her love for himself.
iSecondly, -\Vo come to consider the 
form and technique of the book. Sur
prisingly few of the stories exhibit 
the formlessness of modern fiction. 
"The Mouse, perhaps, lias less plot 
than any of the others, but even here 
we are spared verbless sentences and 
over-indulgence in the, asterisk. The 
embryo plot Is present in almost every 
| Instance, but In very few cases has it 
been workod out to its logical con
clusion. We finish rending a story 
with a feeling of dissatisfaction; there 
is a vital element lacking. Frequent
ly the sense of incompleteness is 
caused by the fact that the climax 
has been carefully led up to, and then 
seemingly abandoned at the critical 
point. The denouement. Is weak and 
Insipid. "The Tree In the Forest, by 
Worth Tuttle. "The Faithful Image, 
by Hamilton Warren, "Easter Lambs 
by Anne Kyleall three just miss 
being good stories because their au
thors have deserted them at the cru
cial moment. Much of the writing is 
amateurish; some of it is very skill
ful. "Shoes, by Frances Wood, The 
Autograph Album, by Mariel Brady, 
"Bottle-Stoppers, by Marion Watson, 
and "The American, by Frances 
Noyes Hart are interesting and well 
written.
As for the essays, only one is of 
any particular distinction. Impera
tor Africanus is worth reading both 
for the quality of the prose and for 
the ideas expressed.
Sonnet, by Mildred Caiin Palmer 
is perhaps the most artistic- and 
original poem.
The two plays are among the most 
interesting features of the book. They 
are novel in treatment and deal with 
unusual people.
LEBARON MANAGER
OF MUSICAL CLUBS
(Continued From Pace Onel 
tions would be competitive, and that 
a start in the freshman year would 
bring the candidate up from one year 
to the next- Retirinc: manager, Cal 
Ludquist read the list of insignia 
awards, and then the evening was 
brought to a close with the*singing 
of Dear Old Tech and the Alma 
Mater.
0BERLIN REVIEWER
SCANS COLLEGE LIFE
The life of a modern student is a 
hard path. It is a difficult struggle. 
He is pestered by one thing after an
other till sometimes he thinks he 
ought to go crazy.
For instance, if he is dropped down 
here in Oberlin, he is constantly dis
tracted by refined women who take 
his time and occasionally even make 
him fall in love. Then his studies 
suffer greatly and the time he gives 
to other activities is diluted with 
meditation. He is not allowed to take 
more than a certain number of hours 
of recitation work a week. In fact 
he is bound on all sides by a great 
fore.e of rules which were certainly 
designed to keep him from knowing 
as much as his teachers. The col
lege insists that he eat such good 
food that it costs vastly more than 
his grandfather paid. There is such 
a stupifying number of extra activ
ities on the campus that even a stu
dent who graduates from high school 
with a sane mind must surely become 
the victim of some sort of mania 
when he contemplates trying to do 
something for himself beside what 
the curriculum allows. The good 
money which was given him he has 
to spend' to buy books which he reads 
for credit. And the worst of it all is 
that when he wants to do something 
for his Alma Mater the college wont 
let him do it unless it is to the good 
of himself or his fellows. Surely this 
must make him grow selfish.
Then his daily life is so broken up 
that he never can spend a very long 
time at any one thing. That is hard 
on any constitution. If he is engag
ed in many outside activities, he is 
kept running around all day, partly 
outdoors and partly indoors. More
over he can never develop habits' of 
regularity because every few days he 
has a chance to sleep late in the 
morning.
What a pity it is that parents make 
young men and women go off to col
lege, and that when they* get there 
they cant do what they want to.
Four Fellowships in 
Metallurgy Offered
Fellows to Do Research Work 
at Bureau of Mines
Four Research fellowships in me
tallurgy are being offered for the 
next college year in co-operation with 
the Bureau of Mines. The program 
for next year will be a continuation 
of the plan for research in metallur
gical problems effected a year ago 
between Carnegie,' the Bureau of 
Mines, and an advisory board com
posed of men prominent and active 
jn the metallurgical industries of the 
Pittsburgh district.
Thfe work of the research fellows 
will cover a period of ten months be
ginning August 17, 1925. Each fel
lowship will carry a stipend of $750.- 
00 for this period in addition to a re
mission of the usual tuition fee.
The holders of the fellowships will 
register as graduate students at Car
negie and become candidates for the 
degree of Master of Science. They 
will also take an active part in the 
metallurgical research work at the 
Bureau of Mines- The problems will 
be selected by a committee of repre
sentatives from the advisory board, 
the Bureau of Mines, and Carnegie. 
This method of selection, results in 
research closely related to operating 
conditions and insures close contact 
and co-operation with the industries, 
steel companies and other companies 
in metallurgical research, it is ex
pected, will contribute to the funds 
required to carry on next years pro
gram of studies.
During the current year, the fol
lowing rese*u*ch program Svas insti
tuted under the co-operative plan:
"Requirements of Refractories for 
the Open Hearth Furnace, by J. W. 
Campbell, and E. N. Bauer, Research 
Fellows, and B. M. Larsen, Bureau 
of Mines.
The Carbon Dioxide and Oxygen 
of Boiler Waters, by H. S. Karch, 
Research Fellow, and R. E. Hall, Bu
reau of Mines.
"The Effect of Phosphorus on the 
Fatigue Strength of Soft Steel, by 
W. L. Cockrell, Research Fellow, and 
F. F. McIntosh, Associate Professor 
of Metallurgy, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
The studies in metallurgical re
search, will be conducted separately 
from the program in coal mining re
search which has been carried on for. 
the past several years, and which will 
be continued under a co-operative ar
rangement between the Bureau. of 
Mines, Carnegie, and an advisory 
board of coal mine operators and en
gineers.
BOAT RIDE AND PICNIC
TO OPEN SENIOR REVELS
(Continued From Page One.) 
all social Seniors to get their tags 
at onee. If a sufficient number are 
bought in advance, the tags will cut 
tho cost of the ball fifty cents per 
man.
Following is the complete .commit
tee for Senior Week:
Wayne F. Koppes, chairman.
Al Mellor, treasurer.
CAPS AND GOWNS 
Helen Gillespie, M. M. C. C.; 
Frank Powers, Ind.; Herbert 
Bowers, Science; ' C. A. Lundquist, Aits.
COMMENCEMENT BALL 
C. A. Lundquist. chairman; J.
S. Steen, F. E. Powers.
SENIOR BANQUET 
M. Donahue, chairman; C. M. 
Colvin, J. M. Dashbaugh.
WOMENS LUNCHEON 
Ellen Eyman, chairman; Louise 
Boggus, Jane Perry.
PUBLICITY 
A. A. Brown.
WOMENS MATINEE PARTY 
Grace Munhall, chairman; la 
Fiikel, Nora Jlenlerson.
CLASS ATHLETICS 
C. T- Schorr, chairman; Helen 
Gillespie, Fred Rossini, Fred 
McClelland.
CLASS SUPPER 
Joe Schucliert, chairman, Dor
othy Weber, Mary Speers. ' 
SENIOR PICNIC 
A. Steigler, chairman; J. D. 
Jan.ma. V. V. SuTcsf
Laboratory Press Granted 
Distinguishing Concession ------ \
The Carnegie Laboratory Press is 
soon to have at its disposal several 
fonts of Poliphilus type, a new Eng
lish type face of exceptional beauty 
that is not available to general 
American-trade.
Professor Garnett, head of the 
Fine Printing Department, through 
his connections as a critic of type 
faces has induced Mr. Harvey D. 
Best, president of the Lanston Mon
otype Company, to loan him the only 
sets of casting matrices for these 
types in America. These faces are 
a recutting of the type used by 
Aldus, one of the old masters, in 
producing what is universally con
ceded to be the most beautiful book 
of the Renaissance; and the italic of 
Antonio Blado, produced in 152-0.
In addition to the above Mr. Frank 
B. Berry, vice president of the Amer
ican Type- Founders Company, has 
recently had cast at great expense, 
a quantity of Garmard type (one of 
the most pleasing American designs) 
of a special body size for the exclu
sive use of the Lab. Press.
These facts but further empha
size the story run in this paper sev
eral weeks ago. The Fine Printing 
Department, chiefly because of the 
efforts and enthusiasm of its artistcraftsman head, Professor Garnett, is 
making a name for itself throughout 
the civilized world, -and raising the 
prestige of Carnegie Tech through 
its marked success.
AND ON THE SAME SUBJECT
You1 poor ham. What do you 
mean' by washing the silverware in 
the finger bowl?
Im not going to get egg all over 
my pocket.West Virginia Moon
shine.
Copy will help pass a pleasant af- ; 
ternoon. One may enjoy it for an j 
hour or so, but it is not. a book one | 
will ever care to read a second time. I 
ALICE R. MOORE. |
ALL
SEATS
25cSCHENLEY
THEATER
ALL
SEATS
LMr
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
SCHENLEY THEATER
"Pampered Youth, an all star pho
toplay adaptation of Booth Tarkingtons prize winning story, "The Mag
nificent. Ambersons, is to " be the 
heading attraction on the program in 
the S'clienloy theater Monday, Tues
day and Wednesday of next week. 
May 25, 26, 27. On Thursday, Fri
day and Saturday, May 28. 20. 30, the 
feature plcturo will be "ICThe Un
known, the big photoplay adapted 
from Mary Roberts Rineharts great
est love story. 'K. Both of these 
excellent productions will bo sup
plemented by comedies, novelty 
reels, news films and otlier short sub
jects, and a speolal added attraction 
throughout the week will be Mort 
Clavner and his Palladium Club Or
chestra of New York, a spectacular 
musical act uniting novelty with 
melodius appeal.
C
MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, MAY 25, 26, 27
cENcRwRI tVeTO53
Knit: "What is cold boiled ham?
Ivnat: Oh! Just ham boiled in
cold water.
Arizona Who Doo.
Adapted from Booth Tarkington's Prize Winning Novel, The Magni
ficent Ambersons.
With CULLEN LANDIS, ALICE CALHOUN, BEN ALEXANDER, 
ALLAN FORREST, WALLACE McDONALD, CHARLOTTE MERRIAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, MAY 28, 29, 30oK-TOR eiKiVWi
From Mary Roberts Rineharts Greatest Love Story K."
With VIRGINIA VALLI, PERCY MARMONT, loHN ROCHE, MAR
GUERITE FISCHER
ALL WEEKALL WEEKNovelty Orchestra 
Presenting Popular Program
COMEDIES, NEWS REELS AND NOVELTY FILMS 
Complete Change of Program Monday and Thursday. 
PLENTY OF PARKING SPACE AT THE SCHENLEY

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 26, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS -
BETHANY DEFEATS 
PLAID NINE 12-2
,,,, > -> * * * ? * rRACQUETERS DROP
rue A/ecru- LN eDr>D-rc
TWO AND TIE ONE
THE WEEK IN SPORTS
Visitors Hit Ball Hard While 
Herman Keeps Skibo 
Hits Scattered
Bethany, with its pitching ace, 
Herman, on the mound, proved too 
much for the Tartan nine at Forbes 
Field Saturday, winning a one-sided 
contest by a 12 to 2 score. These 
two teams now stand fifty-fifty in 
games won and lost, the Skibos hav
ing defeated the Bisons earlier in 
the season at Wellsburg.
Conrad started on the rubber for 
the Plaid, but he split a finger in 
the second inning in attempting to 
stop a hot liner. From then on his 
offerings were hammered to all cor
ners of the lot, and Lynch replaced 
him in the sixth. He held the visi
tors scoreless for two innings, but 
the Bisons. scored two again in the 
eighth frame.
The Tartans only tallies came 
early and late. In the third inning 
Maurer tripled and ambled home 
after Newmans sacrifice fly was 
caught. In the ninth McClelland 
singled, took third on Christoffs sin
gle and scored on Maurers sacrifice 
fly. The score.
Carnegie.R. H. P. A. E.
Christoff, If.............. 02200
Maurer, 1..............__ 111400
Newman, 2-3............ 0112I
Lynch, 3-p................ 01131
Diffly, c..................... 01510
Vogt, s..................... 02022
Shriver, r.................. 000U
Bahr, m...................... 00101
0020
McClelland, 2........ 11020
*Basset, r.............._ 00100
**Ryan, m................ 00201
Bryant, 3.................. 00010
Totals ................927136
Bethany.R.H.P.A.E.
1330
i200
Jaycox, 3.................. 11200
Laporte, m................... 112I)0
2902
Roark, 1................2700
Peckman, s........... ... 11030
Hamil, If................... 12200
Herman, p................ 10000
Totals ..............12112762
 TUESDAY, MAY 26 v
J- Varsity Baseball >
I- St. Bonaventure ..................Here ?!-
v WEDNESDAY, MAY 27 ?>
i* Vars-ty Tennis
Pitt ..........................................There *
I- Freshmen Tennis *
r Pitt Frosh...............................There *
* FRIDAY, MAY 29 v
* Varsity Tennis *
> W. & J....................................Here v
* Freshmen Tennis
* Crofton High..................'..There *>
Syracuse and N.Y.U. Emerge 
Victorious; Union Col
lege Ties Plaid
KISKI WINNER IN LOP
SIDED BATTLE, 20 TO 3
Kiski prep scliool nine defeated 
the Skibo yearlings in a lop-sided 
game in the Tartan Bowl on Mon
day, May 18. The Kiski team walked 
off to an early lead, loafed a bit, and 
then came in strong in the final iuing with 11 runs. Bolger, winning 
pitcher, had 12 strike-outs and seven 
walks, while his only serious rival, 
Cottle, fanned only two and passed 
eight. The summary:
Kiski.R. H.
I
1 >E.
Prenchard, c............. 4 412 11
Grossklos, s.............. 3 22 30
Larimer, m-----........... 3 30 00
Thompson, 1............... 2 33 01
0 00
Gannon, 2...................... 1 14 01
Dunn, 3.......................... 3 10 0u
Fullhart, r.................... 1 10 01
Bolger, p...................... 2 10 00
Totals ....................20 IS21 4i
Carnegie.R. H.P. A.p.
Judd, 3........................... 1 03 00
Cottle, p........................0 01 50
Hurd, s.......................... 0 11 32
Bromley, 1.................... 0 09 00
Cowan, m...................... 0 00 O'1
Goodlin, c................... 1 12 11
Johnson, 1................... 1 12 02
Hoffman, r.................... 0 2 10
Snow, 2.......................... 0 01 00
Collan, 1....................... 0 00 00
Dickinson, p............... 0 00 00
Taylor, 3..................... 0 00 00
Totals ..................... 3 321 11!7
| Kiski ...................243010 11--20
Carnegie ............ .1 1.0 0 01 0-3
On the eastern tennis trip last 
week the Tartan racqueters did not 
fare very well, dropping two con
tests and tying one. Syracuse won 
the opener on Thursday, 5-2, Union 
College came through with a dead| lock, 3-3, and on Friday. New York 
University won by a 5-1 score from 
the Plaid the next day.
The Tartans could not seem to get 
going in the Syracuse match, but 
found their bearings somewhat better 
the following day against Union Col
lege of Schenectady. They were able 
to tie Union by virtue of some good 
performances by Harry Smith, who 
won his match from Fisher, and Paul 
Bowron, who toolj: over Davenport af
ter three hard sets. Kemery and 
Smith had some difficulty in the first 
twosets of the doubles with Hoffman 
and Fisher, but took the third set 
without much trouble.
Union-Carnegie summary:
SinglesHoffman, Union, defeated 
Kemery, Carnegie, 6-2, 6-0; Wright, 
Union, defeated McWilliams, Carne
gie, 1-6, 6-2, 8-6; Bowron, Carnegie, 
defeated Davenport, Union, 6-2, 0-6, 
6-2; Smith, Carnegie, defeated Fish
er, Union, 6-3, 6-4.
DoublesDavenport and Wright, 
Union, defeated Coover and Bowron, 
Carnegie, 6-3, 6-1; Smith and Kemery, 
Carnegie, defeated Hoffman and Fish
er. Union, 11-9, 3-6, 6-2.
Batted for Shriver in seventh. 
, **Batted for Balir in seventh.
Bethany ............02 1 12402 012
Tech .................0 0100000 12
Two-base hits  Lynch, Roark. 
Three-base hits  .Taycox, Maurer, 
Cai-ey. Home runRoark. Stclen 
bases. Gehring, Christoff 2 Double 
playCarey and Roark. Base on 
ballsOff Herman 4, off Conrad 2. 
Wild pitchConrad. Passed ball 
Elliot. Hit iby pitcherBy Conrad 
(Gehring.) Struck outBy Conrad 
3, by Lynch 2, by Herman 9.Umpire 
OHearn.
Two-base hitsLarimer 2, Thomp 
son 2, Prenchard, Groskloss, WatraU, 
Gannon, Bodger. Three-base hit 
Larimer. Home run  Prenchard
First base on ballsOff Bolger 7, 
off Cottle 8. Struck outBy Bolger 
12, by Cottle 2. Umpire'Dan Daugh
erty.
Carnegie Netmen Lose
To Buckneil U. 4 to 2
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
IX
TRACK SEASON OVER
Tho track season ended with the termination of the Pitt Intercollogiatos 
last Saturday afternoon on the Schenley Oval. The past year has boon one j * downpour 
of only fair success for the devotees of the cinder path; two out of tho four 
dual meets scheduled were won by Carnegie, the relay team made a very 
good showing at Philadelphia, and the Tartans placed third in the Pitt collogo 
carnival. Considering the material available at the seasons start, however,
Coach Halferty has accomplished wonders. Very little was left of last years 
team, and a new relay squad, with the exception of one man, had to.be trained 
for the early season. Penn relays.
Prospects of a very good team are in view for next yearCaptain Bright,
Dyke and a few more of the most experienced men will be lost to the squad, 
but most of the sure point winners of the past seasou will bo on hand. In 
addition, several good dash men from the Freshman team will step into va
cancies on the varsity. One of the weaknesses of the varsity was tho 
derth of good men. The baseball team was largely accountable for this fact, 
however, and except in cases where the men could double up, tho track 
team suffered.
: GROVE CITY GAME HALTED.- 
i IN SECOND BY DOWNPOUR 
| ---------
The scheduled baseball game  
Ith Grove City College last  
Thursday was cavlod In the second Inning because of a heavy  
which deluged the  
fiold. Nolther team has scored 
* In the opening inning, though  
the Tartans had a man on sec* ond base. In the first half of  
?J* the second Inning the Crimson 
had a man on third and two out  
whon tho game was halted.  
v Graduate Manager Clarence  
*! Overend staled yesterday that  
I* no other game will bo played  
with Grove City this season, as  
?I* tho final examinations take p.'ace 
* soon.
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
Is serving a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We invite the students to 
meet their friends In the Reymer Store.
THE EYES HAVE IT
Hickory, dickory, dock,
The mouse ran up her sock;
I looked in fun; t
S'he socked me one,
Hickory, dickory, dock.
Ohio Sun Dial.
' FINESSE
"Did you make these biscuits, 
dear?"
Yes.*
Well, I wish you wouldnt make 
any more, sweetheart.
Why not, dearie ?
Because, angel dear, you are too 
light for such heavy work.
Wash. State Co., ta Paw.
The Buckknell University net squad 
flashing brilliant strokes and steady 
playing invaded the Skibo courts and 
defeated the Carnegie racqueters by 
a score of 4 to 2, last Tuesday after
noon.
The Lewisburg squad stepped off to 
a pretty lead early in the fracas by 
winning three of the four singles en
counters. Harry Smith, Carnegie 
captain, started off in brilliant form 
taking a love set from the mainstay 
of the Bucknell team; he lost control 
of the situation, however, and was 
defeated 0-6, 6-1, 6-4. Lylmrger, of 
the visitors, downed Kemery with a 
reverse twist service and an assort
ment of fancy strokes. The score of 
this match was 6-2, 6-2. McCaskey, 
another Bucknell luminary accounted 
for Bowran by the same count.
The lone Carnegie victory fell to 
the lot of McWilliams, who defeated 
Zartman. Mac came from an initial 
defeat in the first set, to win the re
maining two frames very handily. The 
score was 3-6, 6-0, 6-2.
Smith and Bowron won tho first 
dual session by downing Lybarger 
and Zartman, 7-5, 2-6, 6-3. Both Ski
bo netmen performed consistently 
but, despite their excellent play, it is 
doubtful if they would have emerged 
ahead by so clear a margin had not 
Zartman been taken 111 during the 
second set arid been almost forced to 
lefault. McFarland and McCaskey 
clinched the verdict for the Eastern
ers, however, by wlhning from Kem
ery and McWilliams, 6-4, 6-3.
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
wVeSOXiS XT Xi 
RewVcR
WITH
A Crowd of College Men
67 IUysAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA$M00
France, Switzerland, Italy, 
Holland, Belgium, England
WPy IoYt tou CoDY 
Too?
WRITE TO 
SCHOOL OF FOREIGN 
TRAVEL, INC.
110 E. 42nd Street New York
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
IoYt ye EY EYtDque
Some people look like an old relic in formal clothes that 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. You'll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:305:30
BETHANY'S VICTORY
The West Virginians scored a successful comeback, and despite all the 
Tartans efforts, emerged victors by an overwhelming margin. The Plaid 
was defeated fairly and squarely by hard hittiug and good fielding. The 
Skibos showed traces of ragged baseball throughout the game and are large
ly to blame for tho big score which was piled up against them.
Conrads pitching, though usually good, was a bit oft color, mainly be
cause of a split finger suffered in the second inning, and contributed to the 
downfall of the home team. Herman, the Bisons twlrlor, had the Tartans 
eating out of tliQ palm of his hand until the last few innings. He fanned 
nine men, four of them in succession. 
STEFFEN TALKS TO FOOTBALL MEN 
Last Sunday noon members of the football squad were guests of 
the Athletic Council at a dinner held in the Carnegie Inn. Wally 
Steffen was the honor guest, and spoke to the fellows about the 
coming season. Buddy Overend, Bert Munhall, Bob Waddell, Doc 
Marks and several others connected with the team were present. 
Wally talked about the prospects for the fall season, and stressed the 
Importance of staying eligible.
A new idea of Steffen's will be tried out this summer, with the 
object of keeping the squad in good physical condition. The plan 
is to have the men skip rope for a while each day, gradually working 
up their endurance until they can jump 2,000 times without a miss.
This is a strictly new scheme in football; It has been used as a 
training exercise by boxers for many years, In view of the fact that 
it develops the wind and endurance and strengthens the whole body.
Its application to the gridiron game and its success in that field Is, 
of course, a matter of trial. The worlds record for rope skipping 
without a miss is 10,000 times; 5,000 is considered unusually good.
The training quarters will be the same as last year, and daily 
practice will be held In the Bowl. Wally is expecting to take his 
vacation from the Chicago Judicial bench in September, and will come 
to Pittsburgh to supervise the training session.
This method has been tried for the past few years and has 
proved satisfactory in every way in view of the existing conditions.
THE PITT INTERCOLLEGIATES
The anntlal Pitt affair was handled in an efilclont manner by tho sumo 
set of officials which managed the Carnoglo Intorseholastlc moot. Three 
different meets were combined into one, tho intercollegiate, the lroshmen 
meet and tho intorscholastic moot.
Max Bastian, sacrificing a chance to play nine Innings of baseball with 
the varsity at Forbes Field, donnod his track togs Instoad and took part In 
the Pitt affair at the Oval. Max won tho broad jump and took first In the 
javolln, breaking school records In both ovonts. Tho new record Cor tho 
broad jump is 22 foot 7% inches; tho now Javolln mark Is 179 foot.
Smith and Luty once more collected firsts In their events, tho polo vault and high jump, respectively.
**
Lock Haven High again emerged victors In a Western Pennsyl
vania interscholastic meet in winning the Pitt carnival by a large margin.
Their hammer throwers are evidently still on the job, for they 
repeated their performance of taking all five places in that event, 
as they did In the Carnegie Interscholastic meet.
Maurers triple in tho third Inning was a hot liner to right fiold  + ****
Lynch made such a good impression while In the box that Coach 
Blyth is thinking of starting him on the mound against St. Bonavonture today.
What has boconio of tho annual pentathlon which used to bo hold In tho bowl every spring? ^
Now is your chance to become eligible for fall activities.
PLEBES DEFEATED BY 
SHADYSIDE; SCORE 8-7
VARSITY TRACK TEAM 
HAS MEDIOCRE SEASON
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 cRii EVRieR 
Et SPerDGUY SquU e RUst FDberty
Although things looked black 
enough at the beginning of the sea
son, Coach Halferty has finally de
veloped a track team capable of giv
ing any college stiff opposition, and 
one that has even greater possibili
ties for next season.
Dykeman, Mefort, Robertson and 
Kramer, sure pqint winners om last 
vear, all had to be replaced, but this 
year Bastian, Stultz, Kelly, McKin
ney, Dyke and Bright have almost 
equalled last year's stars and should 
certainly do so next year.
At the Penn Relays, starting the 
season, Carnegie failed to finish first 
in their division for the first, time in 
three years, but even so made better 
time than any previous Carnegie 
team. Allegheny was met in the first 
meet of the season and vanquished, 
70 to f>5, with Stultz, Kelley, Dyke 
and McKinney showing up well. Next 
came Geneva, and the Plaid demon
strated an improvement by walking 
away with a score of 89 to 48. Ba9- 
tian came through in the field events 
and was high point scorer of the day, 
followed by Bright and Stultz. A vic
tory over Pitt was hoped for but the 
Panther team led the Tartans at the 
finish, 75-60. However this was a 
much closer score than the meet of 
last year so the net result was rather 
encouraging.
Ohio Wesleyans cinder path artists 
were the Campus Week attraction and 
proved altogether too strong for the 
Plaid. They wore represented by an 
unusually strong team this year and 
had little difficulty in winning by 
94 2-3 to 4Q 1-3. Ted Stultz took the 
only running event for Carnegie In 
tho 120 low hurdles. Incidentally ho 
has won this event in every moot ex
cept the Pitt Intercollegiate, where 
the greater distance handicapped 
him. This last meet saw Carnegie 
beaten by both Pitt and W. Va., but 
followed by W. & J.
Summaries of the Meets:
Penn RelaysCarnegie second.
Carnegie 70, Allegheny 05.
Carneeie 89, Geneva 48.
Pitt 75. Carnegie 60.
Ohio Wes. 94 2-3, Carnegie 40 1-3.
Pitt IntercollegiatesPitt 89, W. 
Va. 88, Carnegie 44, W. & J. 4.
A final inning rally which netted 
them five tallies enabled the Shadyside Academy to defeat the Carnegie 
Plebes S to 7, on the formers field. 
Johnson, tho Plobe twlrler, was get
ting along nicely until tho last two 
innings, whon he suddenly blew up. 
Before the Slnidyside sluggers could 
be stopped they had -secured eight 
runs, sufficient to capture the game.
Tho Tartan Freshmen jumped off 
to a commanding lead and scored 
throe markers in tho third, follow
ing up with a like number in the 
fifth. Shadysido scored throe in tho 
sixth and five In tho seventh and 
final inning thus winning tho contost.
Hlurd clouted three hits for tho 
Plobos, whllo Ivlrk lod tho hittiug 
for tho visitors. Tho scoro:
TARTANS THIRD IN 
INTERCOLLEGIATES
Bastian Breaks Two School 
Records For Skibos; 
Plebes Third
How Teams Scored in Pitt Meets 
CVFFRSXETR
5 fle^S* 1  .S 2 * % I
i i a feiig Mr Is si rill i riI S-! * !3 *1 3
Pitt -r------............................... 7 7 2 lo oil r, :i y | m jCnrnorfo loch ------------------------------ i .j i i r/ ,'l ,\ <jWimhinKton and Jofforaon______ __ __ 4 3CAR Virginia ------------------- H H Ij 1 f, ~j|fl 10 5 fi a 8 r. .
CVFFRSR FwRSONRi
Pitt ___________________________Carncgto Tcch _______________Indiana Ki.HkiShady Side ___________________
Wuahintrton nnd JefFeruon____West Virginia _______________
. 5  r, -12. -1  4 10. 2------M--------- 2 12--------- .'! 4
1 II II 24
Shadysido.R. H.p.A.ID.
Clomson, If.................. 2 0101
BoggH, H........................ 00321
24l1
1r>10
........ 00300
Kurtz, r...............10011
Wheat, 1....................... 01n11
.......... 11000
W. Day, p.................. 11110
Mill or, s........................ 100Lo
.......... 11000
.......... 86188
Carnoglo.H.I.p.A.E.
a131
Cottle, AIIIIIIIIIIII.......... 000*10
Hurd, 2.............30I0
.......... 10002
Taylor, If.................... ai000
.......... 00000
0001
o700
.......... 01020
7*19101
Shadysido .................0 0 0 0 0 8 C>8
Carnoglo ...................0  0 0 B 1 0-7
?Battod for Crultoliiluhl In sev
enth. Two ,nut whon winning run 
wus scored.
Tho Tartans porformod very crodltably in tho Pitt Intercollogiatos, in 
which Pitt, Wash-Jeff, West Virginia 
and Carnoglo took part Saturday af
ternoon at tho Schenley Oval. Coach 
Guy Halferty was quite pleased for 
tho most part, but was disappointed 
in tho showing of Some of tho men, 
who were looked forward to scoring 
bettor than they did. Tho Tartans 
finished third in tho meet with 44 
points.
Max Bastian proved to bo the stel
lar performer for tho Plaid, winning 
first places in tho broad jump and tho 
javelin throw against a strong field. 
Incidentally, Max broke both of our 
school rocords in those events, hurl
ing the Javelin 179 foot, three foot 
better than that made by Mofort last 
year; and jumping 22 feet, 7 3-4 
inches in tho broad jump, which was 
3-4 inches farther than tho school 
record made by Russell Pittman 
three years ago.
Luty came through in good fash
ion in tho high jump, clearing tho 
bar at>5 feet, 9 Inches. Goodwin took 
fourth in this event. Smith made 
tho other first place for the Tartans 
In tho polo vault, doing a couplo of 
inches hotter than Gibbs, Pitt, who 
was second. Smith remains unde
feated in tho polo vault event this 
yoar.
Other point winners in the moot 
for the Plaid woro Nosh It. second in 
tho lmmmor throw; Rhoads, second 
In the javelin throw; Stultz, fourth 
in tho 220-yard low hurdles and third 
In tho 120-yard high hurdles: Cook, 
fourth in tho 120 high hurdles; Do 
Vries, fifth In tho 220-yard low 
hurdles; McKinney, second In tho half 
milo run; Soaman, fourth in tho 440- 
yard dash; Bright, fifth in tho twomllo run, nnd Blolski, fifth In tho mile 
run,
Crawford Does Well.
In tho Froshman moot Captain Crawford of tho plobos was tho only man 
to take n first place, winning tho mile 
run In a pretty raoo. Othor point 
wlnnors woro Munro and Hurd, who 
took third and fifth, rospootlvoly, in 
broad jump; Foil, fifth In tho 220* 
yard low hurdles; Gayolll, third In 
tho 100-yard dash, and Flnglos, fifth 
In tho 4*10. Tho plobos relay Loam 
took second In I ho relay race, being 
nosod out by Pitt In a close finish.
Tho plebes ocorod a total of I!) 
points, talcing third place In tho 
moot,
Any Tcoh" ntudentn who nro not 
wearing nomo pin or button, ohowlna 
Cnrnoolo" symbol can not tho mlnnIng nrtlolo at Slnqonu 8toro, 122 Fifth 
avonuo, Jenkins Arcade.
Twob liltsKirk, Lang, Judd 
First baso on balls Off W. Day I, off 
Johnson I. Struck outBy W. Day 
3, by Johnson 1. Umpire Bond.
TENNIS CHAMPION TO I For two years. Hoover was Assist
ant Professor of Mathematics at Bale-TEACH MATH. IN FALL r diversity,, anti In 1322 he was ap.
pointed Assistant in Mathematics at 
the University of Illinois. During 
the past year, he has.held a fellow
ship at Illinois University as a can
didate for a Ph. D. degree to be con
ferred in June.
Borden P. Hoover, a graduate of 
Baker University and the University 
of Colorado, has been appointed As
sistant Professor of Mathematics. He 
will be attached to the Division of 
General Studies and will begin his 
work here in September.
While a student at Baker Univer
sity in Kanusas, where he was gradu
ated in 1919, Hoover held the colle
giate championship in tennis in Kan
sas for four years. During the year 
that he studied at the University of 
Colorado for his masters degree in 
mathematics, he was the city tennis 
champion of Denver, and in 1922, he 
represented the Rock Mountain states 
in the national tournament held in 
Boston.
Jaqueline: What do you call it
whon two people are thinking of the 
same thing at the same time; men
tal telepathy?
Jack: Sometimes. Other times its
just plain embarrassment.
Yale Record.
Mother: Now, Dorothy, do you
know what becomes of bad little 
girls?
Dot (hanging her head): Yes'm,
they have dates every night when 
they grow up.
Black and Bluo Jay.
New Gym Directory
FIRST FLOOR
Mls8 Ida H. Spurrier, Inotr. of Phyolcal Education....................Room 101
Miss Louise R. Russell, Instr. of Physical Education................Room 101
Miss K. M. Bralnard, Secretary to Grad. Mgr...........................Room 102
Clarence Overend, Graduate Manager...........................................Room 102
H. C. Irwin, Assistant Graduate Manager...................................Room 102
SECOND FLOOR
Dr. Esther L. Blair, Physician for Women....................................Room 200
Dr. William L. Marks, Resident Physician..................................Room 203
Edmund Esquerre, Head Dept. Student Health........................Room 202
F. W. Moses, Instr., Physical Education.......................................Room 204
Arnold F. Fink, Instr., Physical Education..................................Room 204
Christian Beuheman, Instr. Physical Education........................Room 204
Plebe Tennis Team Wins 
At Wilkinsburg High, 5-1
mmmmmummmmmmmmmmmro
Compliments
of
SkDbo XXX
TI10 Plebe Tonni squad added anothor victim to their list whon they 
took Wilkinsburg High Into camp last 
Tuesday, 5-1.
SummarySingles.
Baer, Carnoglo, defeated Hadden, 
6-2, (5-4.
Hooper, Carnegie, dofoated Marlcle, 
6-3, G-l.
iSturm, Carnegie, defeated McDow
ell, 6-4, 6-4.
Boyd, Wilkinsburg, defeated Scott, 
6-3, 6-4.
Doubles.
Baer and Sturm, Carnegie, defeat
ed Marlcle and McDowell, 4-6, 6-1, 6-1.
Cooper and Scott, Carnegie, defeat
ed Hadden and Boyd, 6-1, 6-1.
Polly: Which Is the butt end of ; 
cigarette?
Wog: The left end!
Mass Tech. Voo Doo.
TPe FrUterYDty of 
yusDYess
Bojrln now to form tho aiinoclallonii 
nnd hnblta that will norvo you whon 
ECG ontor tho buBlnonn world. A 
bunk account, ant do from tho tan kI1>Io valuo, fumlnhoij oxiwrlonco 
nnd contact which will oporalo to 
your ndvanUiRO In lator year.
Tho perHonal IntoroBt of Mellon offlcor In tho financial wolf nro of 
doposltora III ono of tho ouliitundinR charaotorlntlcn of tho iniititutlon. Our oxporioniio and butilnf.'iin Judirmont nro nt your ocrvlco.
Cnpltul nnd SurplMi $12,000,000.00
Mellon National Bank
^ANNOUNCEMENT !
The Acacia Fraternity House at 630 Clyde 
Street will be operated this summer under private 
management.
A pleasant place to stay while attending sum
mer school. Reasonable rates.
Make your reservations now.
CUBB ODBUYG 9380 or see XA CA weUvesA 
?nnnm:mmtitn:immnmtmttmtmm::nntmmmtutmttimtmt!mtminimmm':
UNIVERSITY INN FRATEN ISAR FSICSR
Xs Yow opeY for fUruBty UYG stuGeYtsA
OUR SERVICE WILE PLEASE YOU 
cBeUse SDve es U TrDUB
STUDY at HOME for EXTRA CREDITS
More than 450 courscs in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociobgy, etc., 
are given by corrcnpondcncc. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully 
will be furnished on request. Write today.
iSMbersitp of ChicagoI
05 ELLIS HALLCHICAGO. ILLINOIS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 26, 1925
&ALUMNI PAGE
&
LETTERS BY GRADS 
PRAISE SIXTH C.W.I CLAN NEWS j
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA CLAN
C. W. Managers Praised by 
Alumni; Greatest Event 
of School Year
After attending Campu Wook for 
three dayfli nomo of the visiting alum
ni wero ho well pleased that they 
huvo written lotters of appreciation. 
The following uro a couple received 
at the Alumni Office:
Dear 'Tllllo':
"I would like to express my appre
ciation of the very lino tlino supplied 
me by Campus Week, and to express 
particular commendation of the stu
dents and faculty participating In the 
chow 'Saturday evening.
"The Alumni Luncheon alao was 
very good, but could wo not try to 
Btart juiit a little moro nearly on time? 
Tho other day a very busy man In 
Pittsburgh remarked to me that bo 
bad lost, more time In bin life by be
ing on time than In any other way. 
One of the main objections to such 
affairs Is tho lack of punctuality 
which characterizes them; otherwise 
everything seemed to bo very good.
"Cordially yours,
"H. G. NICHOLS, JR.
"Dear Tllbrook:
"Arrived home last night, and tho 
first thing I want to do is congratu
late you on this year's Campus Wook 
and express my personal appreciation 
for all the courtesies, fun and enter
tainment which I enjoyed.
"If Campus Wook continues in its 
present stride, It will be but a short 
time before the alumni flock there 
every year in greater numbers.
"I think that sometimes wo alumni 
have boon -a little too critical and 
when I think of tho tremendous 
amount of effort and work put Into 
thin affair by the students, t fool that 
they aro entitled to just, as much, If 
not moro, of the benefits of Campus 
Week than tho alumni
"Of course, it is policy to do every
thing possible to make it Interested 
to tho alumni and this suroly wan 
accompllHhod this, yonr.
"With beat wIhIioh, I am, 
"Sincerely ^onrs,
"J. M. OUTER.
Hkl Griffin: "1 want to try on that
BUlt in tho window."
SaloHmnn: Sorry, siryoull huvo
to use tho drosslng room."
FDrst CPurrP of CPrDst, 
SrDeYtDst
Clyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and H I*. M. 
Wodnouday, H 1*. M. 
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
| Oakland Savings & I 
Trust Co.
Moinbor Federal Rotiorv V 
Syutom.
Capital - -.................300,000.00 
Surpluo..........................300,000.00
Doponltn, Over - - - 11,000,000.00 *i|
SAFE DEPOSIT DOXES '}. 
| FOR RENT
FDrst eYDtUrDUY CPurrP
Elloworth nnd Morcwood Avoo.
L. Walter Maan, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Sorvice, 11:00 A.M. 
Young Pooples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
CampiiH Week in California may 
sound like a joke, as a matter of 
fact, It wan a reality. While tho 
strains of music floated out from 
every Carnegie frat house In Pitts
burgh, and students and alumni wore 
joyfully participating, In tho Migra
tory Dance, the members of tho 
Southorn California Clan, not to be 
out-done, woro staging a "week" of 
their own. For five hours they too 
dined and danced and defied anybody 
and overybody to have a bettor time.
Fooling, however, that they would 
like to bo."homecomors at loast In 
spirit, thoy sent tho following mes
sage:
"3he Southern California Clan as
sembled May 13, end greetings to 
alumni present at tho Campus Wook 
Luncheon. Jay Knapp, Ifelon I-Iarblson, Sax 'Crosby, Rudy Bran dip, Earl 
Moaler, Hazel Thomas, Dusty 
Rhoades, Max Drebln, J. Riley, Bob, 
Flnkolhor, Ted Allen, Jim Hall, Link 
Young, Davey Maaon, J. Wellor, Ike 
Stonorod, Fuller Munroo, Betty Finkolhor."
In Juno the Clan will Journey to 
Santa Monica for a boach party that 
is expected to nurpass, In SRTC at
SENIOR PICKED AS PLANT
ENGINEER BY FIRESTONE
The sonlorH are interviewing men 
from tho various .factories and cor
poration. Among tho heavleut of the 
intorviewera Is Mr. Stuhler, the re
presentative from tho Firestone Rub
ber Company. His last visit wuo made 
laat Friday while ho wus returning 
from a trip to tho college in the 
eaat.
Among the many applicants for
positions, one of the Induatriea aonlora received a choice poaltion. Karl
W. Kornman, a aenior In Machinery 
Production baa accepted the poaltion 
ua maintenance engineer of their rim 
plant at Akron. Mr. Kornman ia a 
member of Alpha Tau honorary
scholastic and a member of the 'Sine 
Nomine club. Ho will Btart a twomonth training course In July, after 
which ho will take up hiB dutiea.
louat, any ever given by the Cali
fornia Curnegieltea.
A CLOSE CALL
The parlor BOfu held the twain 
Fair darnael and her lovely swain; 
Hean dalie 
But hark! a atep upon the BtairB! 
And mother finda them witting 
there
Ho ------ and---------she.
Georgia Yellow Jacket.
CLAN DIRECTORY
A Sweet Breatfi\ j at alt FRATEN '
BALTIMOREPresident, Arthur W. Crown over, Maryland Glass 
Corporation, Bromo Seltzer Tower Building; Vice President, 
G. S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments, Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets; Secretary and Treasurer, P. H. Dickey, 1318 Continen
tal Building.
BOSTONSecretary, John F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollas
ton, Mass.
BUFFALOPresident, R. G. Townsend, 22 Bidwell Parkway; Vice 
President, B. A. Lutton, 288 Saranac Avenue; Secretary and 
Treasurer, Robert Porter, 167 Porter Avenue.
CHICAGOPresident, J. B. Patterson, Ravinia, 111.; Vice President, 
Mrs. G. F. MacCaughey, 515 Vine,Street, Park Ridge, 111..; Sec
retary and Treasurer, O. M. Lundy, 5475 Kimbark Avenue, 
Chicago, pi.
CINCINNATI -President, G. C. Smith, Chem. Dept., University of 
Cincinnati; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. L. V. Bohanon, 419 
Torrence Road.
CLEVELANDPresident, George A. Ebeling, Newman-Stern Build
ing; Vice President, Mrs. M. II. Montgomery, 492 East 108th 
Street; Vice President, Albert May, 12563 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington 
Avenue.
COLUMBUS, OHIOPresident, N. J. Engle, 266 South High Street ; 
Vico President, Florence H. Lutz, 1980 North High Street; 
Secretary and Treasurer, .1481 Michigan Avenue.
OONNE()T 1 (.JUT-President, R. W. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, 0. E. Rutherford, 41 Kenneth 
Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer, K. W. Fin
lay, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
DAYTON -President, Fred Fludcr, 2505 West Riverview Avenue, 
Dayton, Ohio; Vico President' F. W. Meckert, 1.127 Grafton 
Avenue; Soerctary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Graf
ton Avenue,
DETROIT- President, W. Ray Williams, care Westinghouse Elee. & 
Ml'g. Co., .1535 Sixth Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. II. 
Milos, Milos-Apploby Company, <1612 Woodward Avenue.
MRIE--Secretary nnd Treasurer, Edwin Gross, care Jlammermill 
Paper Company.
GOLDEN GATE, CALIF President, John R. Gearhart, 353 Grand 
Avenue, Oakland, Calif.; Secretary and Treasurer, II. P. Fow
ler, 1340 Josephine Street, Berkeley, Calif.
11AIMMSIU Ilvd- President, .lohn G. Todd, 20% North Queen Styoet, 
Lancaster, Pa.; Vice President, Mrs. A. (1. Green 419 Woodbine 
Street, Harrisburg, Pa..; Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 20VI North 
Queen Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, G. D. Whitney, 2(504 
Dorry Street, 1 larrislnirg, Pa.
HUNTINGTON, W. Va....Secretary, ,1. I'. DeYoung, 808 Secohd
Street, East.
JOHNSTOWN, PA.Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYPresident, Conrad A. Stone, Box 391, 
Charleroi, Pa.; Vice President, Alice G. Nixon, 58 Schoonmalcor Avenue, Monessen, Pa.; Secretary and Treasurer, A. B. 
Lowstuttor, Box 91, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKPresident, J. M. Guter, 15 Park Row, N. Y. C.; Vice 
president, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, Tuckahoe, N. Y.; 
Secretary and Treasurer, S. A. Smith, 8 West Fortieth Street, 
N. Y. C.; Publicity Agent;, Bernard H. Goldenson, 505 Fifth 
Avenue, New York City.
NORFOLKPresident, T. D. Fitzgibbon, 811 Holt Street; Secretary, 
James W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIAPresident; Paul W. Emmel, 5710 North Seventh 
Street; Vice President, L. E. Exline, 213 South 47th Street; 
Secretary, John S. Gicking, Cunard Building. 220 S. 16th St.
PITTSBURGH^ PA.President, M. R. Walton, 5838 Alderson Ave.
ST. LOUISPresident, Paul Klingensmith, 10 Jefferson Road, Webs
ter Groves, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 Waverly 
Place, Webster Groves, Mo.; Secretary, Nelson P. Rice, 1064 
Arcade Building; Treasurer, M. A. Zeller, 2128 Railway Ex
change Building.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIASecretary, Bessie Finkelhor, 319 Delta 
Building, Los Angeles, Calif.
TULSAPresident, H. G. Texter, care Standard Seamless Tube Com
pany, 710 Mid-Continent Building; Vice President, Arthur 
Kerr, 1617 Quaker Street; Secretary and Treasurer, Gertrude 
Hartman McEwan, 1704 South Utica Avenue.
WASHINGTON, D. C.President, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, N. W.; 
Socretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington Place, 
N. E.
YOUNGSTOWNPresident, John E. Jaekson, 21 Euclid Avenue, 
Struthors, Ohio; Vico President, Harold B. Hildebrand, 327 
Cedar Avenue, Sharon, Pa. j Secretary and Treasurer! Ralph P. 
Woodward. 165 Carroll Street, Youngstown, Ohio.
MASS PRODUCTION 
SCORED BY PORTER
(n Speech at Alumni Banquet 
Porter Stresses the 
Quality Idea
M. M. GRADUATE APPOINTED
AS BIOLOGY ASSISTANT
The maaa production method of 
educating men and women in aome 
American collegea waa denounced by 
John L. Porter, truatee of the Car
negie Inatitute of Technology, in an 
addreaa on How High Shall We Build 
Carnegie" at the annual luncheon of 
the Carnegie Tech alumni held in the 
William Penn Hotel.
Institutions are judged by their 
producta, he declared, and nothing 
ia more competitive in the open mar
ket, than brains. Maaa production 
baa become such an obaeaaion with 
the induatrial world, that it has boiled 
over onto all aortB of endeavor, and 
lately, we find it a matter of boast
ing among colleges.
Think of educational institutions 
trilling with the Uvea and welfare of 
men and women, to tho extent of 
force-feeding them, in order to throw 
them onto the marketa of the world 
in herda, to be boasted of.
One big musician, one big artist, 
one big architect, one big engineer, 
one big master workman, one  big 
aculptor, one big dietitian, one big 
coatume deaigner, who can go out in? 
to the world, with something new and 
worth while, is equal to a hundred of 
most of the graduating classes, in 
moat of our educational institutions, 
these days.
It ia not the un-educated element, 
nor the college element, that we need 
to far in this country of ours, but it 
.is the half-educated persons, who com
pose the greatest menace to our peace 
and its over-attendant prosperity.
Mr. Porter devoted a portion of his 
address to a delivery of facts concern
ing the extent of the plant of the Car
negie Inatitute of Technology, point
ing out that the buildings and grounds 
to date had coat more than $6,800,000, 
and because of tho low coats prevail
ing at tho time they were acquired, 
they could not be duplicated at this 
time for less than $10,000,000; that 
the gifts for the endowment aggre
gate $15,346,000; that the annual in
come from endowment is $760,000, 
and that the campus covers 53^ 
acres, containing the great structures 
housing the four colleges and gymna
siums, thirty separate buildings, in 
addition to an outdoor theater, an ath
letic field, a field bouse and a $100,- 
000 service tunnel.
In pointing out to the alumni their 
responsibility in ijiiiy plan to build up 
Carnegie, he said: Are you selling
Carnegie to the world, by your every 
day contact with men and women; 
and aro-you proud to have been con
nected with this institution, and are 
you glad to let it bo known at any 
and all times, and in any and all 
places?
If this Institution Is to bo built at 
all, any hlghor than it is today, 75 
per cent of the responsibility for that 
building rosts upon your shoulders. 
Tho trustoos, the administration and 
the faculty huvo brought it to where 
It Is today, and it. is only rocontly, 
that wo liave folt tho great surging of 
this groat body of lino men and wom
en, at our backs, uttering words of 
oneouragomont to tboso who have 
stood in tho front line trenchba tbeso 
many yoars. The zero hour for our 
great 'going over tho top is not very 
far away, as years are counted .in the 
growth of great universities, and 
when the bugle sounds the signal, 
and our army of 20,000 rises in all 
corners of the earth singing that 
great battle song, Tight for the 
Honor of Carnegie, will there be a 
doubt in the minds of anyone, any, as 
to how high we have already built, 
and bow we are going to build Car 
negle?
The luncheon, one of the Campus 
Week festivities, was attended by one 
of the largest gatherings of alumni in 
Carnegie Tech history. F. R. Cogs
well was toastmaster, and other 
speakers included prominent Institute 
officials and trustees.
AJlwaya carry Wrigley'a 
to freshen tho mouth 
and jwcctonthc breath. 
Soothes nerves, refreshes 
throat and aida digestion.
4 - after every meal
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
Acacia630 Clydo Street...............................................................HJlnnd 93S0
Alpha Tau Omega254 Bollollold Street..............................Scbenley 9102
Beta Sigma Rho2136 Wightman Street...................................Hir/.el 9310
Beta Thota PI55-19 Forbes Street................................................Hazel 3320
Delta Chi Rho-1-108 Wightninu Street.......................................Hazel 9-194
Delta Mu1655 Shady Avenue......................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Pill Delta356 North Craig Stroet.................................Illland 7904
Delta Tau Delta4922 Forbes Street.....................................Scbenley 9231
Delta Upsllon4S22 Baum Boulevard...................................Scbenley 9196
lota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins Avenue...................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Epsilon1732 Center Avenuo.........................................Hiland 9299
Kappa Sigma624 Clydo Street................................................Hiland 9514
Kappa Sigma Rhoi l l Amberson............................................Hiland 9127
Pi Kappa Alpha1S07 Baum Boulevard.............................Scbenley 92S5
Sigma Alpha Epsilon1915 Forbes Street...........................Scbenley 9211
Sigma Epsilon Phi1929 Forbes Street..............................Scbenley 9122
Signm Nu4921 Forbes Street...............................................Scbenley 0659
Theta XI5017 Forbes Street..................................................Schenley 9143
Wroodluwn Club5S14 Forbes Street..........................................Hazel 9422
EXHIBITION OF EURYTHEM ICS 
BY MUSIC STUDENTS MON., 8:15
A demonstration of Dalcroze Eurythemics will be given next Monday 
evening, June 1, in the outdoor thea
ter, by students of the Music Depart
ment under the direction of Miss 
Canfield. Between numbers a chor
us from the Music Department will 
sing four old English madrigols, with
out accompaniment.
Mias Margaret ,McFall of Monongahela, Pa., who will be graduated from 
tho Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege in June, has been appointed assiBtant in biology, and Misa Mary D. 
Heillg, a graduate, baa been promoted 
from aaalatant to instructor in bi
ology, for the next year.
URSS McFall ia a student in the De
partment of Science and will be 
awarded a Bachelor of Science degree^une 9. Miss Heilig was gradu
ated with a B. S. degree from the De
partment of Science last year.
OFFER 2 SCHOLARSHIPS 
IN SANITARY EQUIPMENT
A scholarahiu fund of $1,000.00, to 
be awarded in the form of two scbolarsbipa in Sanitary Equipment, each 
one for $500,00 per student a year for 
four years baa been established at 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
by the National Association of Mas
ter Plumbers, according to an an
nouncement from John J. Vogelpolil, 
President of the Aasociation.
The scholarship fund becomes ef
fective for the college year of 1925- 
1926, and it is expected that the first 
appointments will be made during the 
coming summer. The scholarships 
are to be awarded to sons of master 
plumbers under the direction of the 
Scholaraliip Committee composed of 
Frank J. Fee, chairman, John J. Vogelpolil, Samuel F. Wilson, Alfred C. 
Eynon, and JameB S. Cassedy.
Candidates for the scholarships, 
says the announcement, must be of 
good character and graduates of high 
schools, and must be. able to pass the 
college Entrance Board examinations 
in the subjects listed as required for 
admission to the College of Industries 
of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. The scholarship holders will 
be registered in the course in Heat
ing, Ventilating, and S'anitary Equip
ment.
"The fact that this course is given 
in no other college", President Vogelpolils .announcement points out, 
"should make our action the most im
portant step taken by our organiza
tion since its Inception and should 
merit the hearty cooperation of all 
our members.
Of course, we expect to interest 
many young men aside from those 
who are assisted by the scholarship 
fund. The importance of having 
these courses for young men who 
want to go to college and at the same 
time want to acquire a training in 
our business cannot be overestimat
ed. Another important consideration 
is the fact that other colleges will 
institute similar courses, so that in a 
very abort time there will be in this 
country many institutions of learning 
equipped to train our young men for 
our industry."
The course In Sanltnry Equipment 
at Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
is a four-year course leading to the 
Bachelor of Sclonco degree and is 
given in the Department of Heating, 
Ventilating and Sanitation of which 
Professor S'. E. Dibble, President of 
the Americnn Society of Heating and 
Ventilating Engineers, is the head.
I ToHldCmTe n
AND NEVER THE TWAIN SHALL 
MEET"
There was once a donkey in Spain 
Who stood in the way of a train 
They picked up his ears 
Off the coast of Algiers 
And his tail in the mountains of 
Maine.
Student (Indiana.)
FAMOUS LAST WORDS
ProfessorMr. Wliois, can you 
tell me what Socrates last words 
were?
VictimThey must have been 
Gosh all hemlock!'"
Washington Columns.
FICKLE FASHIONS
A canibal monarch imperial 
Kept his wives on a diet of cereal 
But he didnt much care 
What the women should wear 
Nor did theyit was quite imma
terialIndiana Student.
TELESCOPE
Now that Campus Week is just far 
enough past opinions are beginning 
to crystallize out and some definite 
ideas are being expressed.
Most all seem to have had a good 
time and very little criticism is being 
offered. One of the most important 
factors that made Campus Week such 
a big success was the weather. The 
threatening clouds on Thursday disap
peared, Friday was perfect, and out
side of the rain storm Saturday night, 
the whole week was ideal.
Alumni flocked back this year- in 
greater numbers than ever before. 
The reunion classes were well repre
sented. They seem to be taking a 
greater interest in the annual event 
and alumni are realizing more each 
years that Campus Week Is primarily 
for them, but the student must have 
a place in it. They realize that were 
it not for the student that Campus 
Week would not exist. Its the stu
dent who bears the brunt of the prep
arations and the execution of the big 
events.
The graduates seemed to enjoy the 
special section set off for them in the 
gym at Mardi Gras. The club rooms 
proved also to be a popular gathering 
place for the alumni. However, neith
er of these reservations were used to 
their fullest extent.
The banquet was probably the lar
gest of the alumni events. It was a 
huge success even though it was late 
beginning and it was interrupted by 
the officers of the law." Mr! Porters 
speech was well received and scarcely 
one present could help but feel proud 
of the great institution of which he is 
a graduate. Mr. Porter, by compari
son, showed really how great a place 
Carnegie takes in the college world. 
His figures show the immense re
sources available to make our school 
the best.
little angel and swam hack.
I took her aeroplane ridingshe 
was a little angel, but she didnt fiy 
back.Notre Dame Juggler.
INHUMAN
PaterHow do you expect to sup
port my daughter. Why a hundred 
dollars a month wont even pay the 
rent.
PercyMy dear sir! Surely you 
wont charge Dulcinda and me rent?
Chapanal (Stanford).
TRY, TRY AGAIN
Two Scots were fishing, but were 
new at the game.
Got a bite yet, Jock?"
Naw," said Jock. T dont believe 
my worm's half trying."
Pitt Panther.
SO THERE!
Cop on shoreIm going to arrest 
you when you come out of there. 
Man in waterHa, ha! Im not 
coming out. Im committing suicide."
Awgwan (Neb.)
BUT LONG AGO
T'was at a wedding yesternight 
A young man sat sedately;
I asked him if he kissed the bride 
He answered me, not lately."
Lehigh Bear.
Wuxtry- Wuxtry! Big silver rob
bery!
Seven forks disappear from Com
mons for one whole day! Authorities 
bemoan loss of solid silver, ancestral 
plate, with ancientcreat. Literary or
ganization of campus suspected of 
crime.
THEME WITH VARIATIONS
Milord, the woman waits without. 
Without What?"
Without food."
Give her the door-jamb."Jester
MANY GRADS COME 
BACK DURING C. W.
Sixth Annual Affair Attracts 
Record Number of Old 
Timers to Campus
The Sixth Campus Week was a 
decided success in many ways. In 
the first place it achieved the pur
pose for which it was instituted,- 
namely, it brought back a great num
ber of former graduates; more than, 
any previous Campus Week has been 
able to attract. Secondly, it provid
ed a week of unsurpassed joy and 
frivolity to the present students of 
the institution. If only for those two 
reasons Campus Week merits its ex
istance.
Of the home-coming classes of the 
years 08, 09, 10 and '11, there were 
47 who registered. A greater number 
were here but were not officially 
recognized because they failed to 
register with the Alumni Secretary.
The alumni of oilier years cam& 
nobly to the support of Carnegi'e 
first four graduating classes in the 
matter of C. W. tags and theater 
and luncheon tickets. Altogether  
the alumni purchased 1,100 C. W. 
tags, more than 1,000 reserved tick
ets for Collegiately Speaking, 
while 509 attended the luncheon at 
the William Penn.
As mentioned before, these are the 
best results of any Campus Week so 
far, and as such leave a high mark 
for next years committee. How
ever, it is likely to be surpassed 
since next year the home coming 
classes are those of, '23, J24 and 25, 
whose members will be more eager 
to return because their memories of 
Carnegie are still fresh in mind.
DR. COTT TO HEAD TUFTS
ENGLISH DEPARTMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
League. As Chairman of the Faculty 
Welfare Committee, Dr. Gott was 
very influential in introducing the 
faculty life insurance, community 
buying, building, housing, etc., among 
the faculty. According to his col
leagues, there never was a man who 
did more for their interests as faculty 
members than Dr. Gott, and there 
never was a more charming gentle
man or a better friend.
The college to which Dr. Gott is 
returning is situated near Boston, 
and has a student body of approxi
mately 2,500, including those medical 
and law students who take their tech. 
nical work in the city of Boston prop
er. Although it is not a very large 
college, Tufts is rich in background 
and tradition, and the professorship 
which Dr. Gott will take there is an 
endowed one.
Carnegie students are desolate at 
his departure, and feel that it is go
ing to be a difficult task to find some
one worthy to fill his position here 
with ua. It is not because of his 
scholarliness, or pedagogic achieve
ments, nor on account of his real and 
acknowledged merits as a teacher of 
the finest sort, that he will be missed 
tho most by undergraduates,' (al
though they realize all the fine points 
about him), but as a friend, to faculty 
and students alike. The most univer
sal of tributes to him uttered by stu
dents is-just this:
Hes square.
Perhaps this says it all, with no 
need of flourishes or high-sounding 
phrases. At any rate, all we can do 
now is to wish him all the good for
tune in the world, unreservedly, for 
we can appreciate that he deserves 
it, although he is much too modest to 
reach out and claim any of it for 
himself.
Gee. thats a wonderful moon. 
Well, if you dont like this Buick 
you can get out and walk.
Whats Sambo doin now?
Aint you heard? Hes Africum 
dodger at de county fair.
Dat man sure lias a head for busi
ness.California Pelican.
When a womans lips are cracked, 
She uses grease, tis r.aid.
I wonder why one sees a man 
Use vaseline upon his head?
Carnegie Puppet.
TheyYou have wonderful lips, 
would look nice on a girl.
HeWell, I never misa a chance.
Michigan Gargoyle.
The famous detective arrived at the 
scene of the crime.
Heavens, lie cried, This is more 
serious than I thought. The window 
has been broken on both sides.SkiU-Mah (Minnesota).
I took her ridingshe was a little 
angel and walked back.
I took her boat ridingshe was a
Dormitories For Women
Forboa Hall..............
Forbes Hall Annex.
Mellon Hall..............
Mellon Hall Annex.,
Dormitory..................
Dormitory.................
, Dormitory.................
.. .4916 
...4916 
...5052 
... 5052 
....5064 
....5072 
....50S0
Dormitory..............................5090
Dormitory.............................5150
Dormitory..............................5137
Dormitory..............................5137
Dormitory..............................5141
Dormitory..............................5113
Dormitory..............................5147
Dormitory..............................5151
Practice House...................5125
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Forbes Street 
Woodlawn Av 
Woadlawn Av 
Woodlawn Av 
Woodlawn Av 
Woodlawn Av 
Woodlawn Av 
Woodlawn Av
........Scbenley 9079
........Scbenley 9340
........Scbenloy 9063
........Scbenley 9147
........Scbenloy 9220
........Scbenley 9199
....................Scbenley 9173
........Schenley Siof
........Schenley 9162
enue............Schenley 9430
enue...........Schenley 9434
enue... .Schenley 0341-R
enue...........Schenley 9433
enue...........Schenley 9114
enue...........Schenley 943S
enue.......Schenley 2513-J
Appolo: What attitude do you
take about kissing?
Daphne: Oh, body at thirty de
grees, head back, lips apart, and eyes 
veiled.
Mass. Tech. Voo Doo.
Once a maid came knock, knock, 
knock, knock, knocking at my 
heart,
And I did not talk, talk, talk, talk, 
bidding her depart,
Until I saw her walk, walk, walk into 
a playful breeze,
Alas, the knocking 'f.hat Id heard 
came mostly from her knees.
Penn Froth. .
Why do the girls like to play cro
quet with boys?
Because its a wicket game I sup
pose."
*No, because they have an excel
lent chance to knock the boys dead."
Hamilton Royal Gaboon.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULT
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellow 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Churing Cross$9
J
ust one of many! The others 
ar fully as desirabl  foot 
wear for any requirement, any 
occasion, Si. reasonably priced. 
You ar cordially invited to 
come and look 'em overl
On Display By
MR. D. T. KIRKPATRICK 
at
SKIBO INN, JUNE 3
XiCVwcVwETRI
Store in New York. Brooklyn. Newark and Philadclphia Addresj for Mail Oidcrs, gi Hudjon l, New York City
