TWOJPLAYS 
LITTLE THEATRE 
FRIDAY 4 P. M.(Jhf (Harlan
DONT FORGET 
TO ATTEND THE 
MASS MEETING
ixVOtog.
VOL. XIV. No. 19.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.FEBRUARY 18, 1920.
THE MOST IMPORTANT STUDENT MASS MEETING OF THE YEAR
CAMPUS WEEK PROGRAM
Campus Week is the name the cele
brations on May 13, 14 and 15 are to 
be known from now on and in a few 
years it is expected will draw alumni 
of the college from far and near. The 
committee has been meeting regularly 
every week and has been busy getting 
things under way for some big events. 
At the last meeting the question of a 
name for the celebrations was dis
cussed and the above was selected. 
Home Coming Week, as the event has 
been referred to up to the present 
time, was felt to be too much like a 
name for the celebration of the re
turned soldiers.
Mr. Tilbrook, secretary of the 
alumni federation, has been coperating with the committee and has given 
a -lot of helpful suggestions and is 
working to put the thing up to the 
alumni. A spcial letter to all the 
alumni is to go out very shortly ex
plaining the movement and trying to 
stir up interest. These celebrations 
are principally for the alumni as a 
movement to stimulate their interest 
in the college and build up a strong 
organization that may eventually dic
tate the policy of the institution.
However the success of the affair 
depends to a large extent on the stu
dent body, which will be called upon 
to put the thing across.
The administration is anxious to see 
the thing a success and a faculty com
mittee has been appointed to confer 
with the student committee.
The following tentative program 
has been worked up and plans are 
being made to carry it out with the 
addition of several banquets for va
rious lumm classes.
Thursday Morning, May 13Clean
up Day.
Thursday AfternoonQualification 
Day and Tap Day exercises on the 
athletic field.
Thursday EveningSchool Exhibi
tion Night. Bonfire on athletic field.
Friday MorningTennis matches. 
Alumni-Varsity baseball.
Friday AfternoonBaseball, Tech 
vs. Buchnell. Fraternity open house.
Friday EveningOpen house by all 
fraternities and clubs for alumni and 
friends. Special dinner in the beanery 
for non-fraternity groups. Play in 
the Open Air Theater or a pageant 
on the athletic field. Band concerts.
Saturday Morning10 a. m. to 3 
p. m. Tech Interscholastic track meet. 
Tech-Geneva meet on Schenley Oval.
Saturday AfternoonCircus on ath
letic field.
Saturday EveningReception and 
symphony orchestra concert for alum
ni faculty and upperclassmen in Music 
hall. Smoker in Union and dance for 
alumni and upperclassmen in Foyer 
of the Arts building.
PLEBES WIN I
The Junior Duqes played hard and 
fast and as rough as basketball can 
be, but the inevitable cannot be avoid
ed so Coach Hazels . plucky plebes 
tucked another victory under their 
belts by winning from Duquesne 
High, Wednesday night, 30-33.
The usual aggregation representing 
the Freshman team did not appear 
Friday night. Gibson is now Varsity 
property, so Miller former guard was 
shifted to forward while Trimble took 
Millers place. Many substitutions 
were there, and this line-up did not 
last long.
The Red and White five played a 
fast game and they have sturdy and 
tough men and might have won had 
it not been for the persistence and 
determination of the team represent
ing this years plebes. Andy played 
his usual game and in spite of losing 
one of his teeth continued in the 
game. McCaw played an unusual 
game at forward and Miller showed 
he was competent to play at both ends 
of the court. Red Cain did most 
of the scoring for Duquesne making
20 of the 30 points scored.
Plebes33. Duquesne30.
Miller........................F...................... Gall
McCaw...................F...................... Cain
McKenna .................C_ Cheredinski
Trimble....................G.................Sullivan
Anderson .................G............. Wilenski
Substitutions: Finn for Cheredin
ski, Cheredinski for Sullivan, David 
for McKenna, Livingston for McCaw. 
Goals: Cain 5, Gall 3, Cheredinski 1, 
Finn 1, McCaw 4, Miller 3, McKenna
2, Anedrson 3. Fouls: Cain 10 out
of 17, Anderson 9 out of 19.--ARTS STUDENTS PREPARE
0 MAKE MERRY AT THE FROLIC OF THE VANITIES
-a-INDUSTRIES SOPHOMORES RAZZ THE FRESHMEN
At the regular weekly meeting of 
the assembly of the Division of In
dustries, held Wednesday, February
11, President Oakley gave the Sopho
more Class a bawling out. Red 
claims that the Sophs are very lax in 
their chastisement of Plebes and that 
they should awaken and instill a little 
pep in the school.
Immediately after assembly a meet
ing of the Regulations Committee, 
composed of R. L. Shamo, Chairman,
C. F. Johnson, and G. H. Dennis, was 
held. All classes for the remainder 
of the day were cut and the police 
of the campus proceeded to round up 
eight Plebes who had violated rules.
P. D. Aikens acted as Judge, and R.
D. Feltyberger as Prosecuting Attorn
ey, which proved to be a combination 
hard to beat. Tom Loomis, who was 
the first man on trial was let off easy, 
because of his athletic relations at 
school. T. R. Piper made the supreme 
sacrifice, or lost his hair, because he 
was caught smoking a cigarette. L. 
R. Astie, who has been in school since 
January 1, claims to have no knowl
edge of the fact that plebe regula
tions were an institution of Carnegie 
Tech. He now knows that there are 
regulations and that they are enforc
ed, because he will eat from the man
tle for at least a week.
D. H. Gottwals, a plebe in the elec
trical department, was notified to ap
pear for trial. At the time he was 
wearing white socks, so he borrowed 
a pair of black socks from a friend 
of his, which left his friend to go 
without any at all. Luck was against 
the good Samaritan, for in looking 
over the list of names, it was found 
that he also was booked for trial. 
When he was brought into the torture 
chamber, his deficiency was noticed, 
and because of the flu epidemic the 
sympathetic Sophs painted a pair of 
green socks on his feet. The others 
received liberal application of green 
paint plus a paddling.
 Work on the decorations for the 
ball are to begin this week, as the 
orders for the material has been 
placed and should be delivered today. 
The plan of the- decorations as sug
gested by Mr. Ellington is to be fol
lowed out and should when executed 
give a very remarkable effect. The 
scheme of the decorations has been on 
exhibition in the large exhibition hall 
for two weeks so nearly every one in 
the Division of the Arts has had a 
chance to see what is to be done to 
the main corridor. This year there 
is to be no particular period followed; 
tho decorations are quite modern and 
original and lend themselves to a 
wonderful spirit of gaity. The com 
mittee on this part of the work has 
issued a call to every one in the Di
vision to lend a hand in the work of 
preparation. There are only three 
more weeks to get ready and every 
spare moment must be devoted to 
work on the decorations.
The costume committee has posted 
a number of suggestions for costumes 
and all those who have not gotten an 
idea for their costume should look 
at these sketches.An excellent supper has been ar 
ranged for and those who attended 
last years ball will be glad to know 
that Mrs. Packard has received the 
contract to handle and serve the sup
per this year.
Entertainment features are still a 
little unsettled but the committee on 
this part of the work hopes to have 
things definitely arranged this week.
Invitations have been sent out to 
all the alumni of the Arts Division 
and a few special guests and the 
faculty. It is hoped that those wish
ing to come will respond propmtly. 
Invitations are being sent out spar
ingly this year and only those directly 
interested in the arts are being in
vited. The committee felt that this 
was made necessary by the fact that 
the last two balls were overcrowded 
and this year our student body is 
larger than ever before so some effort 
must be made to cut down the num
ber attending.
Passes will be issued next week to 
those presenting to the secretary a 
receipt from the treasurer of the pay
ment of school dues. If you have not 
paid your dues yet see the treasurer, 
Mr. Crosby, at once or one of the fol
lowing who are authorized to collect 
for the treasurer: Mr. Kendricks, Miss 
K. Shuman, Mr. Hertz or Miss Hick.
CAMP USAW
At a meeting of the men in Dorm. 
No. 6 the following men were elect
ed to hold office for the remainder 
of the year:
President ................... Donald DuVall
Vice-president ... Perry B. Campbell 
Secretary...............Fred. L. Knowles
Roy C. Corderman was appointed 
Treasurer.
MOST IMPORTANT STUDENT MASS MEETING OF THE YEAR.
A student mass meeting is to be held February 25 at 11:30 a. m. in 
Carnegie Music Hall for the purpose of putting before the student body 
important questions now confronting the Athletic Council, and getting 
in closer touch with the General Alumni Federation.
The program will consist of selections by the M. M. C. S. Stringers, 
Glee Club and Band. There will be some short talks by prominent 
alumni members who are very much interested in Tech present and 
future welfare, and these talks to be supplemented by prominent mem
bers of the student body. At. this time, several scholarships will be 
given out to members of the junior class, Division of Science and En
gineering, and also information regarding scholarships offered by the 
Institute at the present time. The real issue of this meeting, however, 
is to bring before every student now at Tech the combination of events 
which has led up to the present Athletic Council. Sometime ago, repre
sentatives from the student body put before the Alumni Federation and 
Varsity Clan the athletic and activities situation at Tech as they saw 
it, and also suggested that the Alumni was not in as close touch with 
affairs and existing conditions, as should be expected. The feeling, that 
the spirit among the students had dropped far below the existing spirit 
before the war, was general, and the necessity for remeding this was 
felt throughout the entire Institute. The most necessary and immediate 
change seemed to lie in the management, of athletics. A graduate man
ager and the retention of Steffens as coach were the important issues. 
The Alumni Federation at once set about to improve existing conditions, 
and the present Athletic Council is a result of much effort on the part 
of the Faculty, Alumni, and Student Council.
At the first meeting of the Athletic Council, held Monday, February 
9, the following committees Avere appointed by Mr. Clarence Overend, 
temporary chairman.
Constitution Committee
Faculty........................................
Alumni........................................
Undergraduate (Industries).
...................Professor II. T. R. Aude
......................................F. R. Cogswell
..........................................T. J. Loomis
Dean A. W. Tarbcll,
Finance Committee
Eugene Dowling, (Science) H. J. Nichol 
Grounds Committee
Faculty...........................................................................................Dr. W. L. Marks
Alumni.........................................................................................................L. H. Lee
Undergraduate (Arts)........................................................................S. P. Stuart
In formulating new plans and working out the athletic program, the 
Council thought it only.just and reasonable to expect a certain amount of 
financial help from the student body to supplement that given by the 
Alumni in putting over this program. The Faculty and Alumni believe 
the new Athletic Council is as near what the undergraduates desire as it 
is possible to make, and we hope this will be the solution of our athletic 
difficulties.
The Finance Committee must have a working capital to start next 
seasons activities, as this Athletic Council must be entirely self-support
ing, with only the student fees, which will not be collected until next 
September, and contributions from the Alumni and Student Body to 
Work on. It was thought that a pledge of $5 from every man in the 
Institution would be necessary to make this program a success, and to 
assure the Alumni that the student body was willing to do their part in 
carrying this program through.
The Alumni Federation realizes that perhaps it has not boon in as 
close touch with the student body as it might have been, and is, there
fore, making every effort to co-operate in every way possible with tho 
students, where the interests of Tech are at stake. It was with this in 
mind that the general mass meeting was called, so that everyone con
nected with Tech might be brought in contact with the real issues, and 
give such help as they are able.
EVERYBODY OUT AND PUT TECH ON TOP.
Student Council, by J. W. Batman, President.
Athletic Council, by C. Overcnd, Temporary Chairman.
General Alumni Federation, by W. W. Powell, President.
NEW ENGLAND CLUB 
PLANS TO HOLD DANCE
On the evening of February 23, the 
New England Club will hold its an
nual dance at the Union.
It was Isaac Walton in his Angler 
who said that doubtless God might 
have made a better berry than the 
strawberry, but doubtless he never 
did!
And the New England Club feels 
just that way about it when it comes 
to holding a dance.
Doubtless there are clubs that can 
run off a better dance than the New 
England Club, but doubtless they 
cant!
The members, encouraged by the 
successes of previous years are en
thusiastic, and their friends are look
ing eagerly forward to that date, for 
their memory of New England Club 
dances in the past keeps them com
ing.
The committee, which is working 
energetically to make the coming 
dance better than ever before, con
sists of John E. Bowler, chairman, J. 
S. Hubbard, W. A. Fitzimmons and 
Albert Hammond.
Tickets will be out in the first part 
of the week. The assessment is $1 
per couple.
So do not forgetFebruary 23rd 
at the Union for an enjoyable time. --------------OF
On Wednesday, February 11 the 
Sophomores of the Division of In
dustries held their first semi-monthly 
meeting for this month.
Red Godden resigned as class 
treasurer and Ralph Shamo was elec
ted to fill the vacancy. C. F. Johnson 
and G. H. Dennis were appointed to 
fill vacancies on the Freshmen Regu
lations committee.
Final plans were made for a theatre 
party and banquet to be held some 
time in the future, it would not be 
proper to reveal the date for fear of 
the Frosh.
HINELINE CARNEGIE CAMERA CLUB
The Carnegie Camera Club hqld a 
very active and interesting meeting, 
Thursday, February 12. The attend
ance was very satisfactory and it 
seems that the club will be a great 
success.
Mr. Hineline, a new member of the 
Science Chemistry faculty, gave a 
very interesting lecture on the proc
ess of manufacturing photographic 
materials. His ease of explaining and 
knowledge of all branches of photog
raphy certainly made his talk on that 
subject very interesting. Mr. Hine
line was formerly with the Eastman 
Kodak Co., and also a member of the 
Rochester Camera Club, so the club 
is very fortunate in having such a 
man.
Men who have never done any work 
in photography are especially urged to 
join, for the purpose of the club is to 
foster and teach photography at Tech.
RATIO CLUB ACTIVE
Oscillatory Currents and the Phen
omena of Resonance was the title of 
the paper read by Mr. Corderman at 
a meeting of the Radio Club last 
Tuesday night.
Mr. Corderman explained in detail 
the theory of the transmitter from the 
transformer to the antennae, also 
gave a very thoro description of de
crements and wave meters as applied 
to radio-telegraphy, including the 
Frequency Multiplier as used with 
high frequency alternating currents.
The fladio Club at Tech has a large 
membership and very interesting and 
instructive meetings are held every 
Tuesday Night at 8:30 p. m., Room 
104, H. H. The erection of new opparatus is now under considerationand Tech will soon have one of the 
most complete radio-stations in the 
United States.
----------'0.----------
Georgia Techs R. O. T. C. certain
ly is booming this year. Each regi
ment and battalion has a chaperone, 
and each company a fair co-ed spon
sor.
PROGRAM OF DANCES FOR
On Friday night the Junior Class 
will, hold its biggest social event of 
the year. The Prom that has been 
the talk of every Junior since Christ
mas time is now only two days off. 
If you have not gotten your final 
ticket yet get it today, as there will 
be no tickets sold at the door.
The Grand March will start prompt
ly nine oclock and if you dont want 
to miss anything you should be there 
to step off at the first note'of music. 
T ,he committee has decided not to 
hold up the beginning one minute no 
matter if there are only a dozen cou
ples there as every minute will be 
needed to finish the program.
Everything is in readiness for a 
wonderful evening that will long be 
remembered. The committee has 
worked hard and has had many dif
ficulties to contend with but feel as 
though the very best has been done 
t omake the Thirteenth Annual Prom 
put the class of 1921 on the map.
The Grand March will be lead by 
the Junior Class president of the Di
vision of the Arts who will be follow
ed by the presidents of the Junior 
Classes of Science and Industry and 
the chairman of the committee Mr. 
McClain. Programs will be given out 
at this time and the big evening officially opened.
The committee also wishes to an
nounce the following order of dances:
1Grand March.
2Dardenella.
3Happy.
4Karavan.
5When Youre Free.
0Mother Im Wild.
7Patches.
8Sahara.
9When My Baby Smiles at Me.
10A Million Miles from Nowhere. 
Intermission.
11Naughty Blues.
12Who Did It?
13Youd be Surprised.
14Nobody Knows.
15Just Like Sal.1(5Medley.
17My Gal.
18Close to Your Heart.
19Slow and Easy.
20Caroline Sunshine.
The 13th and 16th dances are fea
tures and should bo saved.
----------O----------DORM 6 SWIMS
Having no thought of coveting the 
pleasures of a Palm Boacher, but just 
a touch of spring fever, thirteen mon 
from the fourth floor of Dorm, six 
(its a pity it wasnt the thirteenth 
door of the thirteenth dormitory) on 
Friday the thirteenth (and Jake 
Kauffman, had locker No. thirteen) 
journeyed on tlni tramway, using Car 
No. thirteen, to tin; Natatorium for a swim.
The costumes worn were something 
new and featured. As is the usual 
trend of fashion, now-a-days, shorter 
it both ends, the costumes were very 
fashionable. This perhaps was em
phasized a little too much in the cos
tumes worn, but the uniqueness was 
something not to be passed over.
The water, as claimed by the party 
was too warm, and the manager of 
the Natatorium almost lost the favor 
of Dorm. No. 6. However this was 
remedied easily, and when the ther
mometer hit 65 degrees everybody 
shouted enough.
The tail,spin, loop-the-loop, and the 
swan dive, all were given various in
terpretations. Brumbaugh, Clark and 
Johnson gave the most artistic inter
pretations according to the opinion of 
the spectators, however, the manager 
had to ask Brumbaugh during his per
formance, not to disturb the architec
ture, as the red corpuscles of the 
blood did not harmonize with the color 
scheme of building.
MASONIC CLUB HOLDS
The smoker held by the Carnegie 
Tech Masonic Club, February 12, 
proved a big success in every way.
The speakers and entertainers of 
the evening consisting of Prof. H. S. 
Ilower, Prof, C. G. Dunnells, Messrs.
E. M, Starr, F. O. Johnson, W. W. 
Wood, P. K. Collins, W. S, Hug, F.
A. Starwcather, for the enjoyable 
luncheon, smoker and delightful eve
ning.
The members present are already 
looking forward to the next one to 
be held March 11. All Masonic stu
dents and faculty are urged to send 
their names and lodge numbers to 
Samuel B. Shearer, 615 Clyde St., City 
or leave same at the Tech postoffice. 
Members of the Eastern Star are in
vited to send their names and address
es to the above address.
DRAMA PLEBES GIVE
The whole student body, as well as 
a good representation from the other 
divisions, has been amused and enter
tained by the Plebes of the Drama 
School every noon for the last five 
days. The stunts have been the 
result of a trial held after the first 
performance of Rainald and the Red 
Wolf, the Plebe play given last Friday.
Each Plebe was assigned to a group 
and a different stunt suggested for 
each group to perform on spccfied 
days. They carried out the spirit of 
the affair to the letter, and furnished 
a great deal of fun. The affair was 
such a success, in fact, that the per
formances will bo made an annual 
tradition in the Drama School.
On Tuesday Lees and Hertz put on 
a Tempest and Sunshine act that started things with a bang.
The second stunt was Statuary 
Poses, with Alexander Wykoff as an
nouncer. Scluiughnesy, as the 
Hermes of Praxtiles; Daly, as the 
Snake Charmer; Miss Chalmers, as a 
Spirit of tho Past; and Miss Forrest 
as a Cigar Store Indian, wore all 
clever and funny, and left tho audience in spasms of mirth.
Wednesday started off with an Ani
mal Act. Miss Shore was the trainer, 
and her make-up and Ladies and 
gentlemenand architects brought 
down tho house. Lubin was a striking 
looking chicken; Miss Dalzell was a 
trained grasshopper, Willard was a 
monkey (as some people remarked ho 
was almost too life-liko), and Dolly 
Paxton was a trained cootio.
Donald Colpitts gave a very good 
burlesque on a strong-man act, and 
tho muscular exertion wasnt all pro
tended.
Thursday Miss Smith and McClure 
staged a ball-room dance that brought 
rounds of applause. Heater and Spear 
gave a blackface act, and Wilson and 
Colliers impersonated Caesar and 
Cleopatra in an impressionistic man
ner. Tho fourth act on Thursday's 
hill was tho host, perhaps, of the 
wook. Tho throe witches, from 
Macbeth (a groat distance from Mac
beth), Misses Harmon, Basinger, and 
Morrison; gave an original and clover 
performance in a finished manner.
Friday tho Balcony Scene, with a 
western llavor, proved a hit. Misses 
Aultman and Brown and Mr. Chrowo 
took part. Misses Scholl and Toner did 
a Sleepwalking scone- -from Macbeth. 
Tho Misses Cunningham and Johnson 
in a sensational Japanoso slack-wiro 
act rounded out the wook in a fitting manner.
Tho last act of the series was held 
over until Monday, when Goodrich en
tertained with a funeral service over 
tho remains of Betty Jumel. He 
was tho minister who appeared in tho 
play, so tho stunt was quite appro
priate. The groat gravity-defying 
climax to tho affair was a sensation, 
one young lady being quite carried away by the sight.
The Plebes cortainly took their in
itiation with the best possible grace, 
and are to be highly congratulated on 
their sportsmanslikc attitude.
MUSICAL CLUBS MEET 
BIG SUCCESS ON TOUR
The Musical Clubs met with great 
success both musically and socially at 
both Erie and Youngstown. At Eric 
an audience of over five hundred 
heard the best concert ever put across 
by the clubs while at Youngstown the 
performance was repeated with equal 
success before an audience of over 
nine hundred.
Many Tech graduates were in both 
audiences and great pep was demon
strated in Youngstown following the 
concert by the Techites, in the com
bined cheering of the grads and the 
clubs.
Dances were given for the enter
tainment of the members of the clubs 
at both places and in consequence 
thereof, quite a few of the loyal band 
remained behind when the train left 
Youngstown.
Several numbers were given before 
the student body of South High on 
Friday morning after which the mem
bers of the clubs witnessed a demon
stration of pep such as Tech or any 
other school has never shown.
Red Osier lead the cheers of 
South High by special request be
cause he was an exact reproduction 
of their old checr-leadcr. He made 
a hit; there is no doubt of that.
All in all this year's tour has been 
the most successful one taken in sev
eral years and it is an assured fact 
that next year will witness a return 
to these two cities.
Our big Home Concert is approach
ing very fastMarch 12th is the date 
Dont forget.

---------------------------------------------------

Judge for 
Yourself !
und Egyptian cLpntltsi tluMEr
PAGE TWO.THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 12.
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student ActiviticB Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh a second-class matter.
Thi* year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
5c the copy Canada, $1.75
Phone Hazel 9422
Phone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
Afifjintant Managing EditorB 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
J. T. Arne 
Anaociatc TWOJ Editor 
W. D. Hall 
Athletic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athletic Editors 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith 
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchlcy
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret J. GriiFen
Science...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industrie..........................J. R. Rudisill
Arts..................................T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lu bin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy o this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager, 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
THE MASS MEETING.
A mass meeting is to be held in the Carnegie Music Hall Wednesday, 
February 2D, for the purpose of bringing before the students important ques
tions confronting the Athletic Council. T his announcement, together with a 
more detailed account of just wlmt iH proposed, appears on the first page of 
this issue; but it is impossible to emphasize too strongly the importance of 
every student's attending this meeting.The Tartan has been rather discouraged of late. The more we have 
tried to awaken the members of the student body at Tech to the fact that 
spirit and go are lacking, the more hopeless has seemed their indifference.
This meeting gives you a chance to come out and show whether or not 
you are really a member of Tech, whether you are going to support the 
school with ail there is in you, or depend upon others to carry you along, if 
that is possible, while you remain hardly oven an interested on-looker.
Come out to the Mass Meeting. Give the questions which arise the 
support they deserve. With every one working together we will easily 
slough the lethargic attitude which lias marked this year and put Tartan on 
ton With a will.----------i*---------
AN EXPLANATION.
The Tartan stall has boon handicapped to some extent these last few 
weoks by the illness of L. E. Emerich, the editor-in-chief. All the duties 
have fallen on the shoulders of the managing editor and one of his assistants, 
C. L. Lake, who are responsible for the issues. If this weeks Tartan is a 
day lato, blame it on the flu, which has had so much blamed on it that it 
can stand a little more.
BILL OF NEW PLAYS LITTLE THEATRE FRIDAY
The performance in the Little The
ater of the Arts Division next Friday 
will be one of unuwual interest be
cause of the fact that two new plays 
by students of the Dramatic Composi
tion class will be presented. The first, 
an imaginative drama by James Daly, 
is under the direction of Thomas 
Wood Stevens. The cast is as fol
low:
Norah Lauf...................Grey McAuley
Mrs. Fay-.................Eli'/. Allen Smith
Martin Lauf......... Lawrence Paquin
The Spirit of the Moon............
Ellen Crowe 
Georgette Schultz
Pat Fay............................Arthur Lubin
Bill Brown.............Kenneth Thomson
The scene is the Laufs cabin on the 
seacoast.
The second play which is as yet 
unnamed, and is billed simply as Opus 
I, by Inez Dudley Hazel, is a comedy. 
The audience will be asked to sug
gest a name after viewing the pro
duction, which request will be doubt
less add to the interest in the play. 
The cast is:
Tillie .................................... Sara Floyd
Mrs. Mason ....................... Anna Dice
Mr. Mason .......................John Willard
Grandpa..................................Carl Ried
Junior .................Wilfried Bloomberg
Marion..................................Lois Shore
Eleanor.................Lela May Aultman
Katherine ..................... Mary Lissfelt
Kieth Baldridge. .Arleigh Williamson 
The scene is the Mason home in 
the Middle West.
The matinee begins at the usual 
time, four oclock. No tickets are re
quired.
---------0----
Miss Marguerite Ebert, daughter of 
Mr. and Mrs. William C. Ebert, of 
Melba place, and Norman F. LeJeune, 
son of Mr. and Mrs. Victor LeJeune, 
of'Detroit, Mich., were married last 
Saturday afternoon in the home of the 
brides parents, with Rev. Carl August 
Voss, of the German Evangelical Pro
testant Church, officiating. The bride 
wore a white baronet satin frock with 
corsage of white roses, and her sister, 
Miss Anna Mae Ebert, as bridesmaid,
appeared in pink taffeta silk with cor
sage of pink Killai-ney roses. Arthur 
D. Bauer was best man. A wedding 
dinner and reception for the families 
followed the ceremony. Among the 
out-of-town guests were Mrs. LeJeune 
of Detroit, the bridegrooms mother, 
Miss Madeline LeJeune and Courser 
Millmann of Detroit, and Mr. and 
Mrs. E. C. Ebert of Brownsville, an 
uncle and aunt of the bride. Mr. and 
Mrs. LeJeune will live in Pittsburgh.
N. F. LeJeune is known to all the 
upper classmen as Larry. He should 
have graduated with the class of 1919 
but lost part of a year while in the 
army. Besides attending school Larry 
puts in time in the chemical labora
tory of the Duquesne Light Co.
----------0----------TECH EXPECTS SUCCESSFUL 
SEASON FOR TENNIS TEAM.
Col. Brooks, head of the military 
department of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology and coach of the 
schools tennis team, in outlining the 
tennis plans for 1920 yesterday, stated 
that this years team will be fully 50 
per cent better than that of last year. 
When it is considered that only one 
defeat was suffered by last years 
team, this statement bears promise of 
a truly exceptional team. Practically 
the entire list of old players has re
turned, and in addition some very 
promising new material, including one 
man who has for two years partici
pated in the Southern championship 
tournament,- is available. The team 
will be headed by Capt. Stocksoager.
The institute is building six new 
courts that will be ready for the com
ing season, and it is purposed that 
these courts will be the equal of any 
in the United States. Col. Brooks 
said that he intends to start indoor 
practice very early in the season, pos
sibly two months before the opening 
of the outdoor courts.
The schedule has not yet been def
initely made up. Negotiations were 
conducted with Harvard, Yale and 
Princeton in regard to games for this 
year, but owing to the fact that their 
schedules had been completed no 
games could be arranged. It has, 
however, been arranged that the team 
will have a place on each of their 
schedules in the 1921 season.-----0.----------
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.Adv.
GOODLOWS GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool
Of finest Make
Durable
Lasting
Of latest Styles
Wonderful values
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlows Good Clothes
Opportunitys
Offer of Style-perfection
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them 
Ladies admire Men who wear them 
Others envy them
This is your chance
Here is your selection
Even now awaiting your visit 
SERVICE FIRST !
507 Market St.,
200-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
ROSES OF MERCATEL AT
m THE RED WOLF 
PRODUCED BY DMA PLEBES
To those Interested In local art de
velopment, the concert rehearsal, on 
Sunday evening, February H, In the 
theatre of the Carnegie iimtituto of 
Technology, of PLAYAS of Morcatol 
will ho the subject <>f congratulation 
to its collaborators, Lieut. Col. I*'rank 
Day and .1. Vick OBrien, director of 
the department of music, Division of 
Arts. The composer conducted.
The work takes the form of ait op
eratic episode, the text, of which, wan 
inspired by a deserted rose garden in 
the war /.one of France, where Col. 
Day commanded a Highland battalion. 
This text found, in the genius of Mr. OBrien, a most sympathetic musical 
interpretation.
The poem relates how a wounded 
soldier wiles away his pain, by peopleing this garden, where he lies, with 
two lovers Pierre and Yvonne, whom 
he follows, in fancy, thro their gaiety 
and their woes which end as a shell 
bursts over him. A runner, who warns 
him of the impending danger, com
pletes the cast.To this delicate romance, Mr. 
OBrien has added the ineffable beau
ty of music: his tone-painting is the 
highest tribute to Col. Days literary 
powers. That the collaboration is a 
happy one, the delighted audience at
tested.The appeal is directthe effect 
dramatic. The orchestration is well 
balanced and without pretense; rich 
in harmonic color and vibrant with 
sensuous beauty, the waltz movement 
is marked for its delicacy and charm.
Considering the brief period for re
hearsal (two weeks), the performance 
was creditable, the orchestra being 
composed of members of the faculty 
and students of the department of 
music. The lyrics wore sung by Mr. 
Roy Truxoll, baritone and Miss Lu
cille Frazier, soprano. Mr. Chest 
Wallace read the soldier, Mr. Alex 
Buchanan, the runner,
The work is considered an achieve
ment, in the annals of creative art, by 
the Intitule of Technology and an ear
nest of greater things from the same 
source.
That, without scenery or stage ac
cessories, it held the attention of a 
large and discriminating audience, 
proves its claim to artistic accom
plishment.
Repeated applause brought Col Day 
before the curtains to share honors 
with his colleague, who graceously 
acknowledged his indebtedness to the 
musicians and soloists.
Tho first yoar students of tho 
School of Drama presented tho play, 
lialnold and the Rod Wolf in tho Lit
tle Theatre of tho Arts Division last 
I'YIday afternoon for tho second time. 
Tho cast wan not greatly changed, 
and tho performance was as pleasing 
as It had boon a week before. If any 
difference could bo noted, it in that 
while the individual Interpretations 
wore as a whole bottpr tho second per
formance, the general smoothness of 
the whole suffered from lack of facil
ity in picking up cuies.
Justin Lees as Florino did the best 
work. He is sincere and commands 
the stage at will, in spite of his small 
stature. He is inexperienced, of 
course, but with training in diction 
and co-ordination he will make an ad
mirable actor.
Lawrence Chrowe as Waldemar was 
not as impressive to look at as was his 
voice to hear. His stature does not 
correspond to the surprising depth 
and weight of his voice, and an extra 
effort for authority seemed to hamp
er his diction.
Helen Forrest as The White Lily 
of Lavoyne made a beautiful picture, 
and her delivery was clear and full of 
suppressed emotion. Miss Forrest is 
one of the most striking lookingyoung women who ever acted on the 
Little Theatre stage, and her talent is 
unquestionable.
The Lady in the Play within the 
playSarah Morrison the first per
formance and Dorothy Schill the sec
ond, was well played by both. Miss 
Schill made the more pleasing nppearance, but Miss Morrisons reading 
was perhaps clearer and better.
Cloyde Dalzell as the Beggar Wom
an did some vocal gymnastics which 
were striking to say the least. Her 
make-up was very good, also.
Tho throe Guild-mastors, and the 
Burghers Wivos were adequate, but 
showed no striking abilities.
Ross Hertz, as Greed was very ef
fective, as were John Willard and 
Louiso Cunningham as strolling play
ers.
The rest of the large cast played 
surprisingly well, also. The chief 
drawback seems faulty diction and 
lack of voice control.
The setting and lighting was very 
effective.----------$----------
Many speeches are being made by 
prominent men in the different col
leges on the subject of league of Na
tions.
THE TURKISH CIGARETTE
TI^ROM Bagdad to 
Frisco, men in every 
w alk of life greatly 
prefer pure Turkish 
cigarettes.
The fact that ordinary cigar
ettes cost a trifle less, sometimes 
to ones pocket, but never toappeals 
ones taste.
Murads are 100% pure Turkish  the 
worlds most famous tobacco for cigarettes.
Dont wound your pride or scramble your taste for 
a trifling saving.
Murads are worth more than they costand you 
dont have to sneak the package in and out of your 
pocket in any companyyou know what we mean.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1920.THE TARTANPAGE THREE.
PENN AND FH'MKSTOWN AVENUES
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE EXPENSE by buying better shoes. You will And them far cheaper to wear than shoes which arc not so high In quality.
Our new models for FALL and WINTER are now In, and they are full of snapJust suitable for the college man.
GRAND THEATER
Pittsburghs New Million- Dollar 
Grand, the most beautiful photoplay 
theatre in America, has booked the 
latest Norma Talmadge production, 
A Daughter of Two Worlds, for 
presentation all next week, starting 
Monday morning, January 23. Miss 
Talmadge is the screens greatest 
dramatic actress and a new photoplay 
of which she is the star is always an 
event. Of additional importance in 
connection with this, however, is the 
fact that A JDaughter of Two 
Worlds is based on the novel of the 
same name by Leroy Scot. Marking 
the inauguration of Miss Talmadges 
stardom under First National au
spices, it has been given an elaborate 
and interesting production.
Miss Talmadge has not appeared in 
a photoplay at the New Grand in 
many months, and she is expected to 
be welcomed next week with great ac
claim. In the picture one sees the 
star as the same young woman under 
two distinct circumstancesas Jennie 
Malone, a daughter of the underworld, 
and later as a sweet society debutante. 
The story enthralls with its startling 
drama, and gives Miss Talmadge an 
opportunity to surpass all her previ
ous characterizations. Thrills, ac
tion, heart throbsthere are plenty of 
thege besides many other qualities 
to please.
Jerry Malone, cold, mercenary, bit
ter and without scruple, is the father 
of Jennie ,and his one weakness, in 
the eyes of his associates, is his love 
for his daughter. Jerry is the owner 
of a dive in the slums, the only en
vironment which Jennie has ever 
known. But protected by her father, 
she has remained faithful to certain 
ideals concerning womanhood, respite 
the evil nature of her associates. She 
is planning and looking forward to a 
better position in life, and has even 
taken a step in that direction, when 
startling events occur which almost 
draw her back. How she overcomes 
immense obstacles, winning against 
innumerable handicaps, leads through 
one of the most engrossing tales that 
has eVer been thrown upon the screen.
To know the extent of Miss Tal
madges versatility and dramtic abil
ity, it is necessary to sec A Daugh
ter of Two Worlds. She is wonder
ful and has the support of a great 
cast, including Jack Crosby, William 
Shea, Virginia Lee, Frank Sheridan, 
Joe Smiley, Gilbert Rooney, Charles 
Slattery, E. J. Radcliffe, Winifred 
Harris, Millicent Martin and Ned 
Burton. James Young directed.
The program will be high-class 
throughout. It will include a Mack 
Sennett comedy, the Topics of the 
Day, the Grand News Weekly and 
special music. Both the symphony or
chestra, directed by David Broudy, 
and the pipe organ, will be all-day 
features. Performances will be con
tinuous from 10:00 a. m. till 11:00 p.
NOTEArticles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Office of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
office.
FoundKey: either a drawing room 
or chemical laboratory key No. 
4A7191.
FoundOn Friday, January 16, on 
floor of new restaurant, a valuable 
ladies set ring. Owner may obtain 
same by communicating with Mr. C. 
W. Sproull, Room 121, Science Build
ing.
FoundA note book with red covers 
found in basement hall of Industries 
Building January 21. Apply for same 
to Dean Tarbell.
FoundOne key ringno identifica
tion mark other than Corbin Cabinet 
Lock Co., No. 26. Apply for same at 
Dean Tarbells Office.
SPECIALISTS IN
Formal Dress
Evening Clothes and 
Acessories For Rent
DRESS SUIT 
RENTAL CO.
406 Iillslimi'Ji I,lb Btiililini! 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Hell Phono 1254 Grant
l THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
SKIB0 INN
EATS
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET 
TECH & PITT STATIONERY 
Moore, Waterman and Parker 
Fountain Pons.
ourOne of yc 
best friends is 
your pencil.
ihe
quickcns your 
pencil work, 
makes it easier 
and better. It 
is a friend in 
deed and at
.. NSold by leading 
stationer:)::chool ^ 
and in town.
DRAFTING ROOM
S Engineers Equipment, Inatru- [S inents of Precision, Blue Print and Brown Print Papers knd  Cloths.
I B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
THE 
NEW PEKIN
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED 
11 to 2 anti 5 to 8
Music at Lunch and Dinner
EXCELLENT MEALS
AT REASONABLE PRICES
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Oakland
Schenley 3403 Y. M. Ming, Mgr.
A WELCOME TO ALL
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK.
ItTHE GRAFF CO.
RANGES, STOVES, FURNACES,
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A,, 559 Main
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR KENT
DAVIS THEATRE.
There are so many stars in the pro
gram of Keith vaudeville which the 
management of the Davis Theatre has 
arranged for the week beginning next 
Monday afternoon, February 23, that 
it is difficult to pick out a single head
liner and give it pre-eminence over 
the others. However, Belle Baker 
will probably be voted the bills title 
holder. She has not appeared in 
Pittsburgh since April, 1919, and 
therefore, is assured a very enthusi
astic reception. Miss Baker will 
songs, all character songs, in 
stories will be told and types portray
ed. She is known as the incompar
able songstress because she occupies 
a niche alone in the polite varieties. 
Her versatility is proverbial. She is 
one of the few women who can 
a ballad and a jazz number with equal 
success. Her voice is powerful, sym
pathetic in quality, and has all the 
gradations of light and color in tone 
eifects. She has command of all the 
dialects, and includes in her reper
toire Italian, Hebraic, Irish, English 
and American impersonations. Chief
ly of comedy portent, these songs, 
nevertheless, touch varied emotions. 
They were all written for Miss Baker 
by Bert Kalmar and Harry Ruby, and 
will be heard here for the first time.
Victor Moore is another of the stars 
of the- bill. He has returned to the 
stage of the human voice after tre
mendous successes in the mute drama 
of the films. Since the day that he 
created the role of Kid Burns in 
George M. Cohans Forty-Five Min
utes from Broadway, until the pres
ent day Mr. Moore has not been seen 
in vaudeville in this city. Now he is 
to play the sketch in which he won 
his great fame as a vaudeville head
liner. It is entitled Change Your 
Act, or Back to the Woods, and is a 
comic representation of scenes behind 
the scenes. He will be assisted by
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE
JACQUES' DANCING ACADEMY 
CRAIG AND FORBE8 BELL PHONE$
Contains more Turldsh 
than any other
Turkish blend cigarette
Y
OU dont want too much Turkish tobacco in 
your cigarette. Most men find straight Turk
ish cigarettes too rich and heavy.
But you do want ENOUGH Turkish.
The extra large proportion of Turkish in 
Fatimas gives smokers that delicious Turkish 
taste. But blended with it is just the right 
selection of Domestic tobacco, carefully propor
tioned to offset entirely that over-richness so 
characteristic of straight, unmixed Turkish.
I hat is why  even if a man smokes more 
Fatimas than usualthey leave him feeling just 
as he should feel fine and fit for his work.
FATIMA
A Sensible Cigarette
Erma Littlefield with whom he starr
ed in the varieties under the team 
name of Moore and Littlefield.
Thomas Dugan and Babette Ray
mond, who created one of the most 
amusing episodes in the latter-day 
vaudeville, with their motoring trav
esty, An Auto Romance, in which 
they first introduced the trick auto
mobile on the stage, are coming with 
an airy aviation skit, called An Ace 
in the Hole. In it Mr. Dugan makes 
his entrance by means of an aero
plane. Love and lies mingle merrily 
in this little romance of the air. The 
Creole Fashion Plate, a delineator of 
songs and fashions, will be aided at I 
the piano by Bobby Simonds, in a 
group of characterizations typifying 
femininitys varying modes. Olsen 
and Johnson, a couple of likable lads, 
sprinkle a lot of laughter through 
a concert of piano and voilin playing, 
interlaced with songs, chatter, trav
esty and ventriloquism. William 
Brack and his company of seven ec
centric artists is to go through a ser
ies of athletics in humorous fashion. 
Thomas Patricola and Ruby Myer, in 
The Girl and the Dancing Fool, are 
to give a divertissement in which nut 
comedy and grotesque dancing will be 
admixed. A character comedy sketch 
will be played by Valentine and Padula. Martin and Shelley will give bits 
of musical comedy. A review of the 
news events of the week ,shown in 
motion pictures, completes the bill.
Largest Selling 
^iialiiy Pencil in
ikc^Yforld
17 Black Degrees 3 Copying
FENCES
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL GO.  N. Y.
cDratong^Instruments
LostAn O. N. E. fraternity pin, a 
jeweled skull and cross bones, on the 
campus or on Woodlawn Aye., be
tween Margaret Morrison and Forbes 
St. Finder will please return to Miss 
Moore, Batron of Margaret Morrison,
IEHRR F RPurse:Found in Central Building, 
containing key and money. See Miss 
Bird in Dean Tarbells office.
Lost:In Machinery Hall, Friday, 
January 30 between 1:80 and 2:30, an 
Elgin Wrist Watch. Finder return 
to R. M. Vellmon, Junior Commercial.
Smokers are beginning to realize that the fancy-colored, expensive pasteboard box is no longer the popular cigarette package.
At nearly all of the big fashionable clubs and hotels, os well as among those smokers who go to French Lick, to Atlantic City and Palm Beach, and even to Newport itself, the one package most frequently seen is this sensible soft yellow packagc that carries twenty Fatimas.
The Real Thing 
in Cigarette Packages

---------------------------------------------------

MARKTRADE
The largest electric sign 
In the world advertises
on Times Square, New York 
City: it is 250 feet long, 70 
feet high. Made SK of 17,286 
electric lamps.
The fountains Play, the 
trade mark changes, read* 
ing alternately WRIGLEVS 
SPEARMINT, DOUBLEMINT, 
and JUICY FRUIT, and the 
Spearmen do a turn.**
This sian Is seen nightly by about 
500.000 people from all over the world.
Sealed
Tight
"Me master tinww) netiriI'
Broad and Sheridan Ave. j 
All Kinds of Batteries j 
Repaired and Recharged g]
PAGE FOUR.
NEAREST TO TECH
! Cor. Craig and Forbes
! FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
 Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
Haiitf Sljulrm ffimujmjutimt 
Fifth and Morcwood Avenues.
Hamuol H. (Joldowjon, Ph. D., Rabbi. 
Temple Htudy Tel., Cchonloy 27G.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10.
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
?*>% v ;*
\ BELLEFIELD PRE8BYTERIAN 3 X CHURCH
X Bolleflcld and Fifth Avenue*
/. Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., Mlnlstor.
 Preaching Service* 11 and B.
X. Sunday ochool at 10.j' Christian Endeavor at 7. 
i We want the Toch boya to at- X tend our servlcon and loam to y know uj a the congregation of I "Frlondly People,." A hearty i welcome await you.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
ASCENSION EPI8COPAL CHUROH EHaworth Avenue and Neville Stroat DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. R088 R. CALVIN, Aaalatant.Sunday Servloe, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Mena Bible Claai at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.All Students Genuinely Welcome.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Mannoo: 8:30, 8:00, 0:00, 10:00 mid11:00 A. M. on Sunday and Holy Daya.Veaporn on Sunday at 7:30 P. M. Pw B8, Middle lide, for Tech 8tu denta.
The Mellon National Bank 1 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or nmall, 
with care and competency.
Pittsburgh, Pa.
BollBohonloy 380
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. 10. T. Bhuman) 
DIIY CLEANING REPAIRING 
Ludion' and Monn SPECIEAL Carpet*
3033 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
uuiunmtmnmtttmtmmmmnmxmtn
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER GONIPANV
Bell Phonea 678 & 9169 8chenley 
P. it A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Houaohold Goods Moved, 8tored, 
Paokod and Shlppcjd.
Grace Church
(Reformed)BAYARD and DITHRIDGE STREET FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. SERVICES:Hunda.y School9:45 A. M.Mornlnr Worship11 A.Social hour and Lunclieon for stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock'.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all Students.
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
HIRE YOUR FULL DRESS SUIT LESS THAN 
DOWN PRICES AT
HEIMERTS
OAKLANDS MENS WEAR SHOP
IROQUOIS BLOCK, OAKLAND. 
EVERYTHING COMPLETE IN MEN'S WEAR LINE 
AT  PRICES  LOW
The Campus An\il
Godsends.
A blessing to all fickle men 
Is summers airy breezes,
As blows the dainty maidens skirts 
About their cimpled kneezes.
The slanting sun hangs low in West 
Behind a fair soubrette 
it outlines plain her rounded form 
In perfect silhouette.
A window cross the courtyard small 
Where dwells a pretty maid 
Who every night, when bedtime comes 
Forgets to pull the shade.
The fashion dictates shorter skirts, 
Thin waists with necks cut low,
So now, you men go thank the Lord 
From Whom all Blessings flow.* * *
Webster Rcscramblcd.
Fiction writerOne who writes 
school catalogues.
Hotel roomAn obsolete term once 
used to denote parking place for tran
sients; now signifying great wealth 
and power, viz: King George slept in 
a hotel room last night.
GirlAny contradiction to the laws 
of nature.
NickelAnything incapable of re
sults.
Shimmy dancerAny one capable 
of unhinging their joints with the aid 
of a noise from a tin pan.* * *
Pittsburgh (K)nights. 
with apologies to Stevens State 
(Flue Gas)
There was a boy named Willie Harks 
Who ground and ground for higher 
marks,
By chance he forth to Carnegie came, 
Resolved to win success and fame.
One eve he passed through Schenley 
Park
Where pretty (?) maids flock after 
dark.
A girl was seated on a bench,
Some charming, classy little wench! 
So to this jane did Billy talk,
Hed nerve enough to hint a walk; 
The girl returned a haughty stare 
Bor Bill's long-winded blast of air.
Each maiden does some champion 
boast,
And this fair one had quite a host; 
Bad luck did come to Bill that day, 
For one of these came by that way, 
Then all at once he felt a grip,
(Also his left suspender rip)
A grip that whirled him up and down 
That shook him like a dancing clown; 
When finally he left that hand 
He picked some distant spot to land. 
The next day he was heard to say,
I got some good marks, anyway. # #
Things We MAY Never Sec Again: 
Whiskey and its playmates.
Leather shoos.
Prof. Gecklor reading a Puppet. 
Yesterday.
Betty Jumel.
A Tech-Pitt score.
The five-spot loaned to a friend. 
Grass on The Campus. 
Bromo-Scltzer advertisements.
The shirt that went to the laundry. 
The French girl we promised to 
come back and got.
Suits we can pay for in one in
stallment.
Cellars filled with coal.
Soap-box orators on Madison 
Square.
A permit to register.
AND (?) Things Wc May 
Bryan as presidential candidate. 
Wood alcohol advertized. 
Nickel-movics.
The girl we took to the Harris. 
Made in Germany.
BrestParisBellean, etc.
Plebe parade through East Liberty. 
Sugar on a beanery table.
A girl fully dressed.* * *
How to Tell a Girls Age.
1. If wrinkles have begun to fur
row the brow and crows feet creep in 
about the eyes she will probably ad
mit that she lias just turned 18.
2. The twenty-fifth birthday period 
is recognized by a slight graying 
around the temples and the tendency 
of a double cliin. She will display an 
intense interest in the weight of your 
underwear and insist that you 
overshoes.
3. In this stage she reverts 
blonde and starts all over again.
Instructions covering the symp1 
of the 30th birthday and above are 
useless as you will have long since 
passed away before this period is 
reached.* * *
Life Saving.
I was dying for a smoke
But I feared she might object 
So I .dared not dare to hope 
To catch a cigarette.
But I said, Dear, may I smoke 
I hate to bother you 
And she said Im glad you spoke,
Im dying for one too.
Carolina Far Baby.* * *
Lifes Mysteries.
The origin of tho cakes and pies 
pictured so alluringly in tho maga
zines.---------$----------
COLLEGIATE GOSSIP.
A fund of $8,000 has been raised 
by the alumni of Centre College and 
will be awarded to anyone who can 
substantially prove that there was a 
member on the team who received any 
financial aid whatsoever. This col
lege feels so keenly the insinuations 
made on the score of professionalism
that they have taken this means to 
clear themselves of the charges which 
they think have arisen as the result 
of the prestige gaihed by defeating 
West Virginia and Indiana.
The Aero Clubs of Columbia, Har
vard and Yale are making plans for 
a three-cornered airplane race next spring.* * *
Community Newspaper Day, on 
February 11, of Farmers Week will 
be an entirely new feature of the 
gathering of New York State farmers 
at Cornell. The purpose of this day 
is to impress on the people of rural 
districts how large a part the coun
try newspaper plays in the life of the 
community.
As many country newspaper men 
as possible will be present at the con
ference, and efforts will be made to 
impress on the minds of the farmers 
the importance of using the papers 
as advertising mediums.
In addition to the convocation of 
editors the papers will be sent in and 
put on exhibition. The competition 
for the best appearing paper and the 
one which covers the news of its com
munity is open to all weekly papers 
which can classify either as country 
newspapers or as community sheets. 
Ribbons will be awarded to the three 
best in both classesas to typograph
ical appearance and the manner of 
covering community interests.* * *
The Rutgers football team will in
vade the West next fall for a game 
with the University of Detroit at De
troit. The' game will be staged on 
Thanksgiving Day and will be the first 
western game played by Rutgers.
Three games have been scheduled 
by Rutgers with western teams. In
diana will play in New Brunswick 
and Nebraska in New York.* * *
It is the intention of the War De
partment to send each year twentyfive or thirty West Pointers upon 
graduation, to the Massachusetts In
stitute of Technology for further in
struction.
The idea underlying this plan is 
that the War Department realizes that 
the training at West Point does not 
give future army officers adequate 
technical instruction or knowledge. 
Therefore, the most promising men of 
the military academy are going to the 
institute for at least one year of in
tensified instruction in the technical 
and engineering subjects to be assign
ed to them.* * ' #
The seniors at Cornell are attempt
ing to give the college a lasting tra
dition, by wearing corduroys. Wheth
er such a custom will prove successful, 
will be shown by the interest mani
fested by the 1920 class on Corduroy 
Day, the official opening day for the 
custom. It is a question, whether 
such a plan as having seniors wear 
corduroys or any other distinctive 
clothing is feasible at a university like 
Cornell.* * *
Yales football schedule for 1920 
is harder than that of last season, and 
its opponents offer more competition. 
There are eight games scheduled. 
Carnegie Tech, Colgate and West Vir
ginia have replaced Springfield, Tufts 
and Maryland State, which have been 
dropped from this years schedule.
STUDENTS WELCOME J
Fred Suddabys Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
.11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
'INE cases out of ten, the man 
who once smokes aWDC Pipe 
becomes a life member of the W D C 
c!i_ib. lie cant help it, because a 
Y D C certainly a mans size smoke. 
Its as sweet and mellow as carefully 
selected French briar and expert sea
soning can make it. Not only material 
cf the first water, but craftsmanship.of 
the highest order, and designs that are 
most pleasingall combine to make the 
\YD C Pipe a smoke of peace, content
ment and satisfaction. A mans smoke. 
Any good dealer will confirm this.
D4. M(hfarl n N.. T(D Gi
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS O F FINE PIPES
The Joy of Winter Swimming.
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Most people indulge in swimming in the good old summer time but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a pent-up life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. Theres a lot of joy, vigor and wholesome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotor- ium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
TH TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1920.
BATTERY
Exi de
SERVICE
DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alberts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
ARCADE
1536-W.
