TALK TECH 
AND 
HELP THE 
A. E. F.
TECH CO-EDS 
VS.
GENEVA GIRLS 
BASKET BALL FEB.lSi
VOL. XV NO. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.FEBRUARY 16, 1921A GOAL FROM KICK-OFF
PLAID PASSERS RE
PEAT VICTORY OVER 
ALLEGHENY FIVE 31-29
Tartan Five Play Fighting Game--Too Much for Meadville 
Quintet who Fall 31-29, Dosey Score the Winning Tallies a 
Second Before Close of Game
WESTINGHOUSE CLUB DEFEATED IN SLOW GAME 52-29
The much heralded Allegheny basket ball five, the aggregation that 
promised to retaliate for the defeat handed them a few weeks ago, returned 
home, again the victims of the Tartan passesr, who last Friday night in the 
Tech gym snatched the bacon out of the fire before it began to burn and 
handed the Meadville team the short end of a 31-29 score.
Both teams guarded closely during the first half and the playing was a 
little rough, although neither team made the most of the fouls. Several men 
were hurt during this period, necessitating time out,' which slowed up the 
.game somewhat. Neither team was able to gain a very wide margin over the 
other, although when the whistle blew Tech was leading 15-13.
The second half was a wonderful display of speed and team work on 
the part of the Tech quintet. The Gold and Blue, not to be outdone, came 
back strong and Miller, their stellar guard, shot two beautiful field goals from 
the middle of the floor and Kofford,* 
his team mate, scored another. /This 
placed Allegheny in the lead and the 
Meadville boys tried to slow the game 
up and were to some extent success
ful. The game was tense, everybody 
were on their feet, yelling for Tech 
to score. Dosey made good a foul 
goal and the score was tied. With only 
a few minutes to play McPhea worked 
the ball down the floor, making a short 
pass to Dosey, who stood alone under 
the basket, and Dosey scored the two 
points that won the game. A moment 
later the whistle blew.
Dosey again starred for the Car
negie tossers, scoring 25 of the 31 
points for Tech. At foul shooting he 
made 19 out of his 27 trys against Kolfords 13 out of 18. McPhea injured 
his ankle but continued throughout the 
game. The lineup and summary:
Carnegie Tech31 Allegheny
Dosey ....................F.............. Kofford
McPea ...................F............... Parker
Bell ........................C.................... Wise
Nichol ...................G.................. Miller
Gibson ...................G............Graham
SubstitutionsDunbar for Miller,
Hamann for Bell, Pittman for Gib
son, Miller for Wise, Graham for 
Dunbar, Parent for Graham, Wise for 
Parent. Field goalsNichol, Ivoffard 
2, Dunbar, Wise, Dosey 3, Gibson, Par
ker, Miller 3, McPhea. Foul goals
Koffard 13 out of 18, Dosey 19 out of 
9. RefereesDaugherty and Baird.
WESTINGHOUSE GAME
In a rather one-sided game, Car
negie Tech defeated the Westinghouse 
Club on the Wilkinsburg court last 
Saturday night by the score of 52-29. 
The game was fast, but lacked the 
spirited excitement which was mani
fest at the Allegheny game, as at no 
time during the periods of play was 
there doubt as to the outcome.
The Tech passers played a flne 
game, displaying an excellent brand 
of team work. So adept were the 
Tartan players, that at the end of the 
first half they had over double the 
score of their opponents, this half 
(Continued on Page Three.)
SCIENCE SENIORS ELECT
THE HALL OF FAME
After due consideration and deep 
thought the Seniors decided upon 
their Hall of Fame. As yet no elec
tion frauds have been disclosed. 
(The vote conveys the honest senti
ment of,the class, as gaze upon it 
with reverence:
. Done most for classC. B. Schmidt.
Most popularBrandin.
HandsomestJohn Shilladay.
Most lady likeNess Irvine.
Best all-around athleteVet Wil
liams.
Busiest manH. G. Nichol.
Laziest manPitts.
Champion crabbierJ. B. McMahon.
'Most conceitedH. H. Bliss.
Class fusserLenehan.
Biggest blufferBill Reilly.
Best dressed manRace-Track May.
Most useful to TechThe Whole 
Class.
Most studiousRavenscroft.
Most easy goingFalkenstein.
Brightest manBlenko.
Thinks he isBloom.
Favorite intsructorTrinks.
Hardest instructorMcCullough.
Most considerate instructorFol
lows.
Favorite' recreationSleeping.
Favorite actorBen Turpin.
Favorite actressBebe Daniels.
Favorite drinkSenior Tea.
Favorite amusement resortDesign 
School.
MISS HYDE WINS PUPPET, PRIZE
The designs for the Puppet cover to 
be used on the next issue, known as 
he serious number, have been 
judged. The first prize was awarded 
to Miss Harriet Hyde and the second 
to Henry Moeser. Richard Beatty, 
Morton Winslow and Miss Selma 
Derry received honorable mention. 
Some very clever designs were sub
mitted,, which made it very difficult 
to select the best. School credit will 
be given all contestants.
WILL SHAKESPEARE 
AT LITTLES THEATER
Technical Hybrid by Prof. H. 
Qsborne and Mr. Lawerence 
Eyre
Will Shakespeare, in his habit as 
he lived, with numerous and merry 
companions, moves among the great of 
Elizabeths spacious times in the cur
rent production at the Arts Theater, 
The Life and Death of William 
Shakespeare by Prof. Hubert Osborne 
and Mr. Lawrence Eyre, the author of 
Miss Nelly of NOrleans. The play 
traverses the career of Shakespeare 
from his escape from shrewish Annb 
and Stratford, through his London 
apprenticeship, his success at the 
Globe and at the Court, the inner 
tragedy of his period of gloom, to the 
last day of his life in Stratford. The 
drama finds its unifying idea in tho 
poet's quest of an ideally inspiring 
she and his unhappy attempt to find 
her in the Dark Lady of the Sonnets.
The play is a technical hybrid. In 
its making psychological drama com
petes with local color arid historical 
illustrations for the interest and at
tention of the audience, a rivalry in 
which the psychological is not ob
viously the winner. The design and 
execution of the theme of Shakes
peares inner life lack clarity and de
cision of the three characters in
volvedthe sinister, equivocal Dark 
Lady is delineated with most subtlety, 
(Continued on Page Two.)
CO-ED S0PH-SH0W-AND THE 
VILLAIN STILL PURSUED HER
M.M.D.PROM FOR JUNIORS ONLY |FOUR SCHOOL SOPH HOP FEB. 22
Today comes the second installment 
to the great mystery, And the Vil
lain Still Pursued Her. It is a very 
important chapter, important because 
it has added another red letter day to 
Tech history. Even now, when deep 
secrecy still prevails, when the only 
thing known about this whole affair 
is that it is a show of which a chorus 
and a villain are part, there are so 
many closely pursuing the trail of the 
villain that we find one night would 
not be chance enough to treat him 
with justice. But why such close pur
suit? It is known that the villain 
is the incentive, but in his trail he 
leaves so many things that are real 
inducements! What can be better 
than scenes full of life, wit and 
humor, with beautiful girls in beauti
ful costumes, to add a zest to the joy 
of living? But what adds even more 
zest to this great joy is to know that 
for two nights, March 11 and 12, there 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Plans for the M. M. D. prom are 
about complete. Preparations are 
well under way and everything except 
the minor details has been worked 
out. It has been decided that the 
alumni are not to be invited^ also that 
anyone who has a special claim to 
eligibility must submit the case to 
the class for consideration. This must 
be done this year on account of the 
large number of requests from the 
alumni and undergraduates for tickets. 
It is impossible under the present 
plans to handle more people than 
members of the Junior class. From 
all indications this is to be the best 
prom yet financially or otherwise. 
Anyone fortunate enough to be among 
those present will surely have a good 
time.
SCIENCE SMDKETFEB. 18
Class Stunts,Science Orchestra, 
Boxing and Wrestlinq Con
tests Among Features 
Speeches. Smokes and Eats
LATEST ATHLETIC DOPE
On Friday evening, February 18, the 
annual Science Stag Smoker will take 
place in the Langley laboratory at 8 
p. m. Tickets will be in the hands of 
section leaders today and the price, 
15 cents, is by no means representa
tive of the treat in store for those who 
attend.
The committee has promised to 
present every possible form of en
tertainmentserious and otherwise^- 
that. Tech ingenuity could devise. 
Dean Mott and Dean Tarbell will be
gin the program with suitable ad
dresses, followed by announcement of 
the elections to Tau Bita Pi, honorary 
engineering fraternity, from the up
per eighth of the Junior class.
Buddy Overend and Frank 
I-Iaaren will give out the latest dope 
on matters athletic and the stag par
ties of former years have always been 
the. scene of the liberation of several 
secrets, so those planning to come 
with which to secure speakers for the 
General Assemblies. The Tartan sub(Continued on Page Two.)
JR. PROM TICKET SALE 
EXTENDED UNTIL FRIDAY
Prom tickets are not (selling as fast 
as they should. The plans of the 
committee must be based on the sale 
of preliminary stubs. It seems as 
there is a marked lack of interest this 
year. This state should not exist, for 
the Junior Prom iis the biggest social 
of ones college career. It is up to 
every three year man to get in line 
and makfe it a big success.
It gives the Juniors an additional 
opportunity to signify their intentions. 
The preliminary sale has been ex
tended until Friday, February 18, three 
days longer.
The committee is busy on the plan 
and hopes to announce the musical 
program soon. The best orchestra pro
curable will be secured and as in 
former years the very best of every
thing will go to make the affair the 
best.
The preliminary ticket's for the an
nual Soph Hop given by the four divi
sions are out. They are $1.00 plus 
S2.00 for the final pass. The only other 
essential is that one of the couple 
must be a Sophomore. If you are 
spending your second year here you 
cannot afford to let this opportunity to 
step out get by. The time is Feb
ruary 22, Washingtons Birthday. 
Place, Hotel Schenley, just off the 
campus. If this dance isnt a big suc
cess then all srgns fall, for the Soph
omores are all behind it and are 
working for something pretty good. 
The committee promises some special 
features and novelties. Hughes Jazz 
Orchestra is holding special rehear
sals so as to prepare an exceptional 
program.
COUNCIL BUSY
Budget Committee Report Ac
ceptedSong Contest Ap
proved Total Fee $13-$9.90 
to Athletics
TARTAN SUBSCRIPTION IN FEE
The Student Council held a busy 
meeting at Forbes Hall on Sunday 
afternoon. The Commencement Weqk 
Committee is hard at work on ns 
plans. C. H. Wallace, general chair
man of the committee, has tho follow
ing committees working with him. 
Ring committee, Miss Ethel Ander
son, 11. W. Arnold, W. Perkins, W. II. 
Obenour, chairman. .Cap and Gown 
committee, Miss Amelia Scliado, W. 
S. Hug, P. D. Irwin, M. W. Pohlmeyor, 
chairman. Program committee, Mis. 
Lois McCombs,. R. M. Crosby, L. D. 
Pitts, W. H. Oakley, chairman. 
s The Budget commltteos report, pre
sented by A. F. Leet, chairman, was 
accepted. It recommended that a 
Student Activities feo of $13 be as
sessed noxt year. It is to be appor
tioned as follows: Student Council,
20 cents; Student Activities Board, 
$2.90; Athletic Council, $9.90. The 
Student Council apportionment has 
been increased over tills year In order 
that a fund might be established 
(Continued on Page Three.)
HOLIDAY THURSDAY 
FOR BIG FREE FEED 
THEN TECHS A. E. F.

A.J. Dreux, Chairman Student Campaign Girls to CampaignClass Obtaining Most Money Gets BanquetPittsburgh to be 
ScouredOnly 5,000 Needed for $50,000
TRIPS TO PENN STATE GO TO TWO HIGHEST TEAMS
ALL ARTS IN SHIP AHOYThe drama department will not bo 
tho only one represented In tho an
nual oxtravaganza, Ship Ahoy," 
given by the Division of Arts. They 
will, of course, hold down the host 
parts, but tho other departments 
have shown marked ability and talout 
especially In character parts.
Work on the production Is progress
ing very well and tho noxt tbroo 
weeks will find things done wltli a 
bang.
KARAPETOFF SPEAKS 
AT GENERAL ASSEMBLY
The Aims and Means of Education 
were presented to Tech students in an 
entirely different way by Professor 
Karapetoff at General Assembly. The 
educational institution reisembles the1 
agriculturist in that it first prepares 
the soil, then plants the seed. Finally 
it sees that the seed germinates prop
erly. Farther than this the school 
is incapable of going. It can only pre
pare for a harvest that will be reaped 
two decades in the future.
But this preparation involves two 
problems. Fiiist, the student must be 
trained to see that economic justice 
will be done. The more or less passive 
middle class must be aroused or it 
will be ground to nothing by the strife 
of the other classes. In ancient days 
the physical predominated the mind of 
man. Brute strength was the much 
(Continued on Page Two.)
THE SONG COMPETITIONS
The following prizes are to be offered for songs turned in for the dif
ferent competitions:
A prize of $25 will be awarded to the best song turned in by any student. 
General competition open to any person.
First prize ....................................................................................$10.00
Second prize .......................................................................................... 5.00
FraternitiesFirst prize ....................................................................... 5.00
FraternitiesSecond prize .................................................................. 2.50
Girls' DormitoriesFirst prize ............................................................ 5.00
Girls DormitoriesSecond prize ........................................................ 2.50
Boys DormitoriesFirst prize ........................................................... 5.00
Boys DormitoriesSecond prize ........................................................ 2.50
Design SchoolFirst prize ................................................................... 5.00
Design SchoolSecond prize ............................................................... 2.50
Rules and information governing competitions:
1. Songs will be judged by a committee under the supervision of Mr. 
OBrien of the Arts School.
2. Songs will be turned In at the Central Building postofllce and must 
be In by April 26, 1921.
3. Songs will bo of three general classes: Alma Maters, or serious
songs, such as Amice; football songs, as "On Carnegie; or humorous 
songs, as My Girls a Maggie Murph. In each competition songs must 
be accepted for the Song Book to bo eligible for prizes.
4. Songs shall preferably contain several verses and original music. 
If old tunes are selected a copy of the music must accompany the song.
5. Full credit will be given in the Song Book to organizations winning 
prizes in their groups. In addition the individuals winning songs accepted 
for the book will receive credit.
Touchdown Daynext to last November 20th the reddest day in the 
history of Tech, will be for Tech students of today the first and greatest) 
opportunity afforded them to participate actively and actually in the financial 
end of the Tech sport program and system and will, if Techitcs rally to the 
appeal and pledge of their leaders, be the best means yet afforded of brings 
ing the student body into close contact with the people of Pittsburgh through 
the athletic program of the institution.
Touchdown DayThursday, February 17th, is to bo tho day when every
plebe and upper-classman, every co-ed and every tye-stude will sally forth
into the highways and byways oL Pittsburgh ajul vicinity in a strenuous 
endeavor to demonstrate concretely and conclusively to tho alumni and pub
lic the ability and willingness of tho student body to aid the school and its 
athletics, and themselves as well. At 12:30, on cessation of classesfor bo 
it known to all that tho administration 1ms granted a half-bolidayevery 
man-jack in the school is to proceed to the Varsity Clan Cafeteria for a buffet 
lunch, the guest of the Alumni Council, and to secure details and Instruc
tions on his or her conduct for the balance of tho day.
* Bring your own cup," is the slogan 
of tho lunch, for tho task of feeding
and furnishing with drinkables tho
two thousand odd studos of tho school 
will bo too much of a '.strain on tho 
facilities at tho cafeteria. Bring your 
own cup and help In the general jolli
fication and enthusiasm of tho lunch 
and to applaud Frank Maaren, "Bud
dy" Overond and tho other Teclt 
notables prosont. Tho only restric
tions and requirements of tho lunch 
are that every Tochlio attend and 
stay until tho conclusion of tho 
luncheon.
Student Loams, under tho direction 
of A. J. Dreux, general chairman of 
Student Committee, will have as a 
preliminary to their endeavors of tho 
campaign period tho luncheon moot
ing of Touchdown Day as the starting 
gun. Under Chairman Dreux are 
grouped four chairmen In tho differ
ent schools, and under ouch of those 
chairmen Is a chairman In each elans. 
The duties of the class chairmen will 
be to superintend and direct, tho 
efforts of the team captains In their 
classes, each of whom will have a 
corps of four or more two-men teams, 
for the method of approach will bo 
through the "double method, rather 
than Individual approach, Each cap
tain will bo rosponslblo for the 
proper coaching and reporting of his 
teams, and each school chairman1 for 
the captains under him.
And now for the tale that will thrill 
tho cockles of ovory heart on tho 
campus. To tho two-man team that 
secures the most subscriptions In tho 
campaign free trips with tho varsity 
to State Collogo on noxt Pennsylvania 
Day and to Washington on tho occa
sion of the noxt combat with W. and 
J. will be awarded as a prize. Tho 
same prlzo will bo awarded tho twoglrl team of tlie fominlno contingent 
for their successful efforts, and In tho 
event that the winner of tho group 
wishes tho cash equivalent, it will bo 
(Continued on Page Three.)
N1TE MEN FAVOR
ACTIVITIES FEE
Proposition Carried by a Three 
Fourths MajorityNito Ac
tivities Aid
At a mooting hold on Sunday after
noon, February (5, in tho office of Doan 
Tarbell, tho ballots sent In by tho 
night mon of all our four divisions In 
regard to tho questions pertaining to 
tho Student Activities leo woro 
counted and further action taken on 
tho same.
The whole question of an. activities 
foe for tho night mon has arisen from 
tho fact that somo of the mon felt 
that tho return on the $5 fee, which 
It was votod to pay last year, was In
adequate and an agitation was there
fore bogun to elthor abolish tho foe 
or-to procifro adoquato roturns for tho 
same.
A meeting of the officers of the 
night schools of tho four divisions was 
accordingly called the latter part of 
January by Dean 'Tarball and the 
matter was put up to them. Mr. H. P. 
Greenwald, president of the night 
class of the Division of Science and 
Engineering, was delegated to com
pose a circular letter to be sent to all 
the men, in which they were asked to 
vote for one of two propositions in re
gard to the fee.
The one proposition merely recom
mended to the trustees that no student
activities fee be collected from 
(Continued on Page Two.)
the
CO-ED BASKET BALL TEAM 
PROMISES FAST GAME FEB. 18
The Girls Varsity certainly looks 
like a hummer. The squad has loads 
of promising material, even though the 
emotional damsels and acceleratedhearted lassies have been heartlessly 
deprived of having even a chance to 
try out. Miss Bowman, the coach of 
coaches, is wielding her proteges into 
a whizzy team with lots of speed and 
classy team work. Heres Techs 
chance to see absolutely the best bas
ket ball game that will be played on 
the Tech campiis this season.
Of course youre anxious to see 
whos on tho team, and tho only way 
you can find out is to come and seo 
the game, February 18, In tho boys 
gym. Play begins promptly at 7:30, 
as tho Geneva girls are obliged to 
leave early. Tickets will bo on sale 
In the various buildings tho first of 
the week. Remember tho dayFeb
ruary 18, and the time7:30.
Lets help tho girls do the same 
thing to Genova that the boys did.
INDUSTRIES SENIORS ELECT
THE HALL OF FAME
Done most for classH. C. Ham 
mann.
Most popularW. H. Oakley. 
HandsomestJ. W. Plotrowskl. 
Most lady likeR. D. Anderson.
Best Mexican athleteP. D. Good. 
Busiest manPonzi, Inc. (Good and 
Arnold, Trustees).
Laziest manR. E. Eardley. 
Champion crabberP. W. Marceau, 
Most conceitedR. iC. Feltzberger. 
Biggest blufferH. G. Culln.
'Class fusserP. W. Jewell.
Best dressed manR. C. Dotterway, 
Most useful to TechJ. J. Rudislll, 
Most studiousW. T. Mantell.
Most easy goingE. Wendels, Jr. 
Brightest man, thinks he IsW. D. 
Hall.
FACULTY
Favorite Instructor, Prof. R. B. 
Lolghon.
Hardest InstructorCowan.
Most considerateDr, if. C. Kidd, 
favorite recreation- Fixing Schod' 
ule with DoanV> Assistant.
Favorite actor- i\ I). Good.
Favorite actress Mae Murray. 
Favorite drinkPluto (It moves the 
world).
Amusomont resortTho Cut.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTH2 YATTTMr*WEDNESDAY,FEBRUARY 16, 1921BRING YOUR OWN CUP
alije arimt
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in tho Postonico of Pittsburgh TA second-class matter.
LKECHNDH P. FKO-SN..............................................................Editor-in-chief
Telephone, Schenley 180.
I)ON. A. SILLERS ........................................................... SCIENONR Manager
Telephone, Schenley 0211
WILLIAM D. HALL ................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone, Schenley 0009.
FRED L. KNOWLES.................................................Assistant Managing Editor
STUARTP. SMITH .................................................................... Athletic Editor
VGIRLV B. lRiVXI1 .................................................................... I8EA Editor
WILLIAM OBENOUR ....................................................... Circulation Manager
WILLIAM R. MILLS ...................................................... AdvertiBlng Manager
EDITORIAL AND NEWS AS8I8TANTS
Kenneth Arnold, ABBiBtant Nowb Editor; Divisional Assistants, Helen 
Lowls, M. M. D.; Charlotte Shuman, ArtB; I. SisKinan, Science; B. R. Bei ver, 
Industries; Editorial ABBiBtanX.AU V. II. Stromqulst; L. J. Whitehead; NJght 
School Editor, Edward A. Brand; ABBiBtant Athletic Editor, H. L. Moersfoldor; artoonist, M. G. Winslow; Photographer^ R. H. Guyton.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Sonnemann, Walter Heller and Ackermun.
Tho Editor-ln-Chlf YA responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
THE SONG CONTEST
Everyone knows about, the call for Tech song -which has re
cently been issued, and to date some very satisfactory songs have 
been submitted. But the student body is not taking the interest in 
this matter which they should show. The ,School of Music ought 
to furnish good material for composers, but as yet almost no re
sponse has been secured from them. This is a good opportunity for 
them to show what they can do for the school, a chance which, from 
the nature of their studies, they seldom get.
Every large college has a published book of songs, and there 
is no reason, except.perhaps our youth as a, school, that we should 
not have one. But without the songs to fill it, naturally the publica
tion is impossible. Everyone who has the least idea of a song for 
Tech should submit it at once, so that the committee can get the book 
out this year and make it one worth while. The fact that the au
thors name will be published with his song may not seem much to 
you now, but somd day it may be rather pleasing to have little 
Johnny write home to pop all about how l(We sang your song at 
Assembly today, or words to that effect. A certain well-known 
man once made a remark about not caring who made a. nations laws 
as long as he was allowed to write its songs, didnt he? And lie 
lias been quoted quite extensively. Here you are being asked to do 
what lie craved the honor of doingof Course'with the slight differ
ence that Tech is hardly a. nation. It, is'your Alma Mater, though, 
and we think every one who can write either music or a lyric should 
be more than anxious to submil; it at once.
How dp y.OU reel alxml the matter? A el ions spertk plainer--->
STUDENT CALENDAR
February 
February' 
February 
February 
February 
February 
February 
February 
FeVnm ry 
February 
February
February 
February 
February 
February 
February 
February 
March :i 
March <i 
March -1 
March fi 
March fi.
17 Intor-Fra!;ernity Smoker, AVoodlawn Club. 
17 Industries Alumni Association, Union.
18Sci en (te Stag, Langley Laboratory.
18 -(.\ I. T. Girls vs. Geneva, Tech Field House,
18Building Consl,ruction' Club Dance,, Union.
18...Drama Freshmen Dance, Arts Building.
21 -Quaker Club Dauee, Schenley Hotel.
22Washington's Birthday, No Classes.
22- -Four Schools Sophomore Dance,''Union.
21...Baskiat Bail, Tech vs, Bulalo, Tech Field House,
2fi- -Basket Ball, Tech vs. Georgetown, Tech Field 
I louse,
2fi -Basket Ball Dance, Union,
25- VI. M. I). .Iunior Proni, Schenley llolel.
20-Basket Ijjilll, Tech.vs. .La fay etto, Tech Field House, 
2(i '-Basket Hall Dance, Tech Gym.
2(i  Houmnnian Night,n Cosmopolitan Chib, Union. 
2(5 -Wrestling Tournament, Tech vs. Ohio State, 
basket Itali, Tech vs. Ducknell, Tocli Kidd IIoiinq. 
"Ship Ahoy, Schenley Tlieatoi.
Science Freshmoli Smoker, Union.
 Ship Alloy, Schenley Theater;
Basket Ball Dance, Union,
NIGHT MEN FAVOR
ACTIVITIES FEE
(Continued From Pago Ouo.) 
night school. The second plan, which 
os a result ol* tho vote will bo adopted 
with the approval of the Board of 
Trustees, provides for an annual 
activities foe of .$5.00, to be collected 
from eacli night student at tho time 
of registration1. This fee will be dis
tributed as follows:
(1). Three dollars of the, fee to be 
paid to the C. I. T. Athletic' Associa
tion, in return for which general ad
mission tickets to basket ball, base
ball, track and tennis events will be 
distributed ate at present. A football 
ticket will be distributed,, entitling the 
holder to a credit of 50 cents towards 
admission charge to each home. foot
ball game.
(2). One dollar and fifty cents of 
the fee to be paid to the Student Activ- ities Board, in return for which (a) 
the Tartan shall be distributed free to 
the night students; (b) the full ex
pense of the* inter-niglit school dance 
($2.00 or more) shall bo paid; (c) 
the night students shore of tho over. head oxponses of tho Board of Student 
Activities be assumed, and (d) any 
surplus of this portion of the fee bo 
, contributed to aid charitable organi
zations such as tho American Rod 
Cross.
(3). Fifty cents of tho too to bo 
hold by the treasurer of the Student. 
Activities Board, subject to requisi
tion by tho night school olUoovs of the 
four divisions to defray the exponses 
of any divisional social events author
ized by the students and their otllcors; any surplus from this fund to 
be used at the end of tho year in the 
award of four prizes for scholarship, 
one for each division, open to any 
registered night student, the awards 
arid conditions to be determined by 
the Scholarship Committee of tho 
faculty. These awards to be an
nounced at Commencement Exorcises.
It will be seen that this latter plan 
definitely .'BpoQilles a return for each 
contribution, establishes a fund 
which should materially reduce the
cost of the annual smokers and
dances and provides an incentive and 
recognition for . good scholarship.
At tho meeting hold February G it 
was voted to amend this plan a fol
lows :
(1). That a season ticket, entitling 
the holder to admission to all football 
games, be available to night students 
for the additional sum of $2.00.
(2). That the sum which the
treasurer of any of tlie divisions of 
the Institute requisition from the
treasurer of the Student Activities 
Board according to paragraph 3 of the 
original plan, may not exceed the
amount paid into thisi fund by stud
ents of the division for which he is 
acting as treasurer.
The count of the post card ballots, 
which were enclosed with the letter, 
showed that of the number of stud
ents voting, 80 per cent favored the 
plan of paying an annual fee of $5.00, 
while 20 per cent voted against the 
plan. Tho vote, taken by divisions, 
showed that tho students of oach divi
sion wore overwhelmingly in favor of 
paying I he fee.
In accordance with the result, of the 
vote tho oUleeiw of the night school 
authorized Doan Tarbell to lay tho 
matter before tho Board of Trustees 
for their approval, with tho amend
ments as noted above. Favorable 
action is expooted from tho board in 
tho near future.
STUDENT PUBLICATION
BANS WORD DANCE
The word dance may no longer be 
used in the heads over stories appear
ing in the U. S. C. Trojan, the student 
daily, as a result of a receut decision 
of the Student Body Publications ComHappenings on the Campus
| CO-ED SOPH SHOW, "AND THE | 
VILLAIN STILL PURSUED HER
FEDERAL BOARD MEETING
Tho rejuvenated Federal Board 
Club held its second meeting Monday, 
February 7. The new constitution wan 
adopted and as directed therein the 
following Executive corrimjtlee was ap
pointed: Social, H. C. Waterson; fi
nance, J. C. Mlcklem; secretarial, F. 
W. Roth; athletic, J. A. Gallagher; 
discipline, W. L. Dixon; publicity, B. 
J. Bittenbender; adjustment, C. 
Treon; clerk of assembly, E. L. Bliss.
HOUSEHOLD TEA
The Junior H. E. Class was enter
tained at tea Friday afternoon at the 
Practice House by Miss Pope, Miss 
Hatch and the present Practice House 
Squad. Of course everybody had a 
good time and it was doubly appre
ciated by the gueste as they all came 
from Chem. Lab. A good time was 
had by all" as XA always the case at 
Practice House parties.
INTER DORM DANCE
Excluding formals, the biggest dance 
of the year was given in the Union, 
Saturday, the 12th. One might say this 
was the biggest dance, for all classes 
were eligible, whereas the formals are 
restricted to special classes. Perhaps
Bill SaysBILL COMES BACK
Last Wednesday I was severely dis
turbed and terribly grieved when I 
picked up the Tartan and found that 
this column of mine-r-this column of 
all my fond hopes and dreams, this 
column which I gave birth to, and 
have clung to ever since, had alas 
sunk to the immeasurable depths to 
print an opinion which dealt very in
considerately with our loved onetei 
the Maggie Murphs. First, I wanted 
to light; but its all over now and Im 
normal so heed ye with gentle cars 
and .sympathetic heart what Bill says. 
It Is bald for me to understand how 
any man can go to Tech until he 
readies the senior year, without ap
preciating tho beauty, the considera
tici^ the pleasant, personality of our 
Maggio Murph, yet there seems 1 :> 
be one among u unable to appreciate 
her virtues. He ' laments that ho 
spoilt I he enormous sum of $5 on this 
girl during tho period of a week and 
then because lui lost out on a dance 
,at Ilu girls' hai) he walls about not 
getting bln moneys worth. 1 don't 
blame Mggio Murpli'." I think Id 
givo him the air too if ho deemijd 
his dollars so precious and talked ol 
gelling his moneys worth. He iriulBit 
lie terribly wild to spend the entire 
$5 in a wo ie. Ho sinks Into quiet 
memory and repose as bo dreams of 
tho old fashioned date spending the 
evening talking of travel, experience 
and current events and blames Mag
gie Murph*' because she can't; stand
II. Ileilove me, he'd bettor' realize 
that he's In Pittsburgh and a. smooth 
Uno '.combined with a reasonable 
amount of action Is necessary to suc(ioss. Maggie Murph can spend the 
evening listening to talks on travel 
and current events any Eastr vaca
tion. when she goes back to the 
farm, Ive been out on many a stormy 
night with Maggie Murph never has 
she asked all the questioni he says 
she asks. Theres something queer 
about this fellow. If I knew who it 
was Id I ook up his tests in the 
psychological department. Ive been 
roper iii on a few dances at that 
little school across the hill but they 
talk too much PiU lor my content
ment. I'd much rather f^amo a date 
with Maggie Murph any place, any 
time and talk Tech. I cant quite 
understand why he knows none at the 
Senior teas. Ive met some of the 
Maggie Murph Seuiors formally but 
1 know em all and Im in favor of 
a tea every afternoon. The way it 
looks to me is that sume Maggie 
Murph was a .little too clever for 
him, busted his heart and now hes 
disappointed in love, simply a lone
some little raindrop looking for some, 
place to fall. However, lies probably 
a pwetty good scout-after allhe must 
be if hes a Tech man, but 1 object 
to him razzing Maggie Murph and 
using my column for a lovelorn sheet.. 
I will admit that; at times Maggie does 
tramp on a mans feet, and rides 
around on em awhile at the dances 
and that she does have to got. In darn 
early at times, hut Ive boon at Pitt, 
at I. C. W. and from coast to coast 
and I've never soon anything that had 
her beaten. God love or. Yours for 
"Maggie Murph.
BILL.
the greatest attraction was the 
music, furnished by Harrison-Collins. 
The committee is to be congratulated 
on giving such a successful dance. It 
was Hap Hester, chairman, June Nor
ris, Olga Keefer and Lois Miller.
SOCIETY PERSONALS
Among those present this week-end 
In our midst are Miss Ethel Bostert of 
Johnstown, Pa., and Mrs. Humphrey 
Arbuckle of Erie, Pa. Both are for
mer students of M. M. D. Perhaps Mrs. 
Arbuckle is better known as Esther 
Cardot.
INDUSTRIES MEN
Dont fail to be at Assembly next 
Wednesday to see our trained Plebes 
perform, featuring The iStringers. 
The mere fact that the Plebes are to 
be there and for once take part in the 
assembly ought to be (sufficient in
centive for the old men.
B. C. C. DANCE
The Building Construction Club 
are planning a dance to take place in 
the Union, February 18. Tickets will 
soon be available for $1.25. Music will 
be furnished* by one of Pittsburghs 
best.
SHAKESPEARE DRAMATIZED
(Continued From Page One.) 
but her change from amused curiosity 
to an actual love for the poet hardly 
emerges from the feeblest scene of 
all, the interview in the theater. The 
authors are very skilful, however, in 
re-creating and maintaining Elizabeth
an dramatic style, both in its low and 
lofty moments.
In terms of production the perform
ance is a great joy. The ensemble 
work is especially notable. The group 
scenesthe roistering actors at the 
inn, the .ruffian pit audience, the chil
dren swarming in at the deathare 
adroitly alive and beautiful. Of the 
many who are', in a lengthy cast, con
spicuous, Shakespeare himself de
serves, perhaps, prime place. Mr. WI1- 
dards task is that of looking, rather 
than acting, th Bard, since the part is 
not' an involuted one. Hardly robust 
enough for 'Shakespeares prosperous 
maturity, he makes a credible youth 
and a romantic ligure for the later 
career, l ie is at bis best in the scenes 
in Arden and in the London lodgings 
Miss: Forrosts beauty as the Dark 
Lady is not, less notable than her act
ing of tho onerous, subtle and para 
doxlcul part, and It. is her acting 
which makes tho love drama plausible. 
This Elizabethan Camille is a new 
note for her and a new success. Miss 
Lissfolt, as Cesario--a. prototype for 
Viola, Is exquisite In appearancc and 
manners and delicate and pathetic as 
I lie maid who never fold her love. 
Strikingly apt in appearance and vig
orous In delineation Is Miss Crowes 
portrait of Elizabeth. She Invites one
lo see her at. length in a play with 
Miss Forrest as Mary, Queen of Scots, 
Experience, and art make Miss Lol.z 
mistress of the inn, a colorful sketch 
I'rom low life. Mr. Lees' Earl of 
Southampton is comely and aristo
cratie in bearing. Miss Dice.does two 
parts as carefully and effectively as 
they are diverse.
Of many incidental charcters, it 
would be unjust not to mention term
agant Anne (Miss Dalzell) the blun
dering Dogberry (Mr. Hertz) the 
! sprightly rogue (Mr. Collins), the orI iginal Audrey (Miss Chalmers), the 
swaggering actors (Mr. Schauglieney 
and Mr. McClure), Puck (Mr. McCar
thy), and the quaint court characters 
(Mr. Dean and Mr. Muller). But to 
note all who contribute to joy and 
color the spectacle would be to men
tion the whole cast.
A word must be said of the sets an^t 
the lighting. In the simplified con
ventionalized mode the sets demon
strate the beauty that can be achieved 
by relatively slight means. The most 
effective are the simplest.-the tay.ern 
scene and tlie London lodgings. - Ex
cept for the electrified pool, the light
ing is impressive.
It is apparent, without further in
dication, how much of the success of 
this ambitious venture is due to the 
distinguished work of Professor Os
borne as author and producer.
mitten. Obeying the new ruling, the 
nows editors are using such heads on 
stories pertalulng to social activities 
of the students as, Members of S.
H. Club Indulge in Rhythmic Con
certed Movements. and Trojans 
Tread Stops Timed to Music at Pop
ular Academy Hall.
FURROWED EARTH
On Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday 
and Saturday nights of this week the 
Drama Literary Society will present 
-Furrowed Earth.' It is a realistic 
drama of American life in the Mlddlo 
West. The author Is a member of the 
Dramatic Composition ('lass conducted 
by Thomas Wood Stevens. It is dis
tinctly of the now school of realism, 
which mood Is carried out in all de
tails in the acting.and setting. Ches
ter M. Wallace is the director of the 
production whose cast includes Car
olyn Merwig, Carl Benton Reed, Ellen 
Crowe, T. Park McClure, Sara Mor
rison. George Hoag, Albert Alvin, 
Teata Thompson and Adelaide Ziele.
(Continued From Page One.) 
will be gathered large crowds of real 
Tecnites to laud the splendid work of 
the talented M. M. D. Sophs. Ah! their 
work as actors and actresses, as chor
isters and songsters is splendid even 
though Flo Ziegfeld did pass them un
noticed as he did our genuinely cap
able Juniors before us. Well, if he 
didnt know the Juniors before he will 
know them now, and if he doesn't 
know the Sophomores now he will 
positively know them later. So we 
will continue acting, the villain will 
still be pursuing he'r and all Techites will be perusing these weekly in
stallments, bearing in mind always 
that those days have been reserved for 
you.
KARAPETOFF SPEAKS AT
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
sought for quality and a Hercules or, 
a Samson was looked to as the leader. 
In the middle ages this idea began to 
change and the man who used his head 
became the leader. The man who 
worked for his own aggrandizement, 
the successful business man. became 
the popular idol. This type is still 
very much with us. But the success
ful man is gradually giving way to the 
man who thinks of and for others, 
to the man who puts service for 
others before service for himself. It 
is the duty of the college trained per
son to further the building up of a 
collective consciousness in the minds 
of people of today that self will make 
way for the greater concept/6f service.
Money bestowed for educational pur
poses is a part of this service as well 
as a means of education. But other 
means lie with the student. He, too, 
must build for the future. The de
mand for certain things today may 
have passed by graduation day. That 
which stimulates interest should be 
emphasized. The student ought to 
take only that in which he is inter
ested. This will bring out the idea of 
service and make it possible for him 
to work to that end. But it will re
quire work for nothing in life can be 
attained passively.
Buddy Overend explained the 
students part in the coming drive. 1-Ie
urged that each undergraduate should 
sell at .least one subscription. He an
nounced that Mr. Alex Dreur was ap
pointed aj& student manager in charge 
of drive February 17.
The varsity men were presented 
with letters. Also football men re
ceived gold footballs.
ANNUAL SCIENCE
SMOKER FEB. 18
(Continued From Page One.)
have something to which they can. 
look forward to.
Some real action will be furnished 
throughouta boxing match and a 
wrestling match. These will be fol
lowed by the four future events of 
the ^veninga class stunt by each of 
the four classes.
Music will be furnished by the 
Science School Orchestra, Egyptian 
cigarets and Pittsburgh stogies will be 
served, while at 11 you may cool a 
rasping throat and fill an empty feel
ing at the Varsity Class restaurant 
with sandwicheis, fruit and coffee.
The committee consists of the fol
lowing: A. L. Lute, chairman; W.
Ravenscroft, R. Nation, Repplien and 
L. Griggs.
Life Made Up of Surprises.
Life is a series of surprises. We do 
not guess today the power of tomoiv 
row.Emerson.
RESTAURANT
VERNON AND CURRY 
Proprietors.
4529 FORBES STREET 
A Bit Small 
But Oh, You Good Eats 
Try us and be convinced.
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable prices 
3719 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
STUDENT SUPPLIES
Fountain Pens, popular makes, $1.50 
up; Eversharp and similar Pencils, 
50c up. Watermans Best Ink, Ink 
Tablets, Tech Recognition and Seal 
Pins, Rings, Frat Jewelry, Stationery, 
etc., Dance Programs, Favors, Sta
tionery plain and monogrammed; 
Fountain Pen Repairing.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
FIRST FLOOR JENKINS ARCADE
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Be I leficld and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Wo want the Tocli boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
St. Pauls Cathedral 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays & I-Ioly Days. 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30. P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle Aisle, for Techi 
Students.
third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues...
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and;
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages,. 
A cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD AND DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M.
Social Hour and Luncheon for- Stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock. , .
Christian Endeavor7 P. M.
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all students.
PERENNIAL PLEBISCITE
Every time you help the church, even by attendance, you cast a 
vote for its continuance. Every time you stay away your vote is the u 
other way. What would happen if the churches were closed?
How will you vote next Sunday?
LIVING ROOM HOUSES
Nos. 1-3-5-7 Roselawn Terrace
About 160 feet from the corner of Forbes Street 
and AVoodlawn avenue. Very attractive houses of 6 
rooms and bath each, hardwood floods, porches, 
French doors, garage space. Price $8,000 and $8,- 
500. Terms arranged. These houses are strictly 
modem and would make an excellent home for a 
professor or students.
Also have a bungalow site, 75x110 feet. Bar
gain. Price $1,500. Same locality hs above houses.
WEIBY H. HUDSON
426 HIGHLAND BUILDING 
Hiland 4889.

---------------------------------------------------

UAThu rv coop  2.1
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital - - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided 
Profits - - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
Safe Deposit Boxes for 
Rent
Wo eat too fnnt-w at 
too much, 
Eatlnr..v-cl>cw it moro.
W$jGjLEV.S.
after ever v tncal-nlda 
Olticrtlon* cloafinct tin 
'mpuih ehd tcctli nnl 
cwoetens brcstti.
Still 5e Rverywlicrti
& THE FLAVOR HY LASTS
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day 
about the large number of her 
cubs.
How many cubs do you bring 
into the world at one time ? she 
asked the LIONESS
"Only ONE,"replied the Lioness
  but it's a LION ! 
MURADS COST 20 CENTS 
FOR A BOX OF 10 
BUT THEYRE MURADS
MURADS would be lower 
priced if we left out all or part of 
tke 100JV) Turkish tobaccos of the 
purest and best varieties grown  
or if we substituted inferior grades 
of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt be MURADS 
theyd only be Foxes!
Judge for Yourself! 
Wc call special attention 
to Murad 20 s in Tin Boxes
WEUNfcSOAY, riBRUARY 16, 1921 vHE TARTAN PAGE THREETHE TRIPS-WH0 GOES?
Do You Dance?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private |
JACQUES DANCING | 
ACADEMY I
E
Craig and Forbes |
lmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmx*
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
Opposite Library 
imiaunmnmmttsmittiMmtmimmjS
^nilllU!!llWI!ll]|l![!l!l!lll!!!i:i!l!!!lllll!ll!!llllllllllllllll!IIIIIIIIIllll|lllllllll|U!l|l|l||l|IUIltll!U|iL^
|. Tech Barber Shop
Nearest/to Tech 
j Cor. Craig ancl Forbes 
f Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
H Nearest and Best Laun
dry Agency
Grown 
Not Overgrown
Some big banks may 
think they have out
grown the little ac
counts.
,c* Welcome remains 
our word to the small 
depositor.
Capital and Surplus, 
$11,124,136.20Mellon National BankPittsbu^h, Pa. 
&
FRESHMAN FIVE WALLOPS 
MflNONGAHELA CITY, 35-18
MID SHIPMEN WIN MEET 
WITH PLAin MITT MEN
TOUCHDOWN DRY
EVERY MAN 
FIFTY DOLLAR BAIN
,n/y
COLLEGE WOMEN OF THE WEST
We, the women of the University 
nf Utah, resolve that we will exert 
ur influence against the use of 
tobacco and the unseemly familiarity 
n the part of young men, and the 
,ls, of tobacco by women. It devolves 
upon women to maintain the moral 
standard of the race.
On The Plaid Screen
PLEBE BASKET BALL
Date. Opponent..
The Tech Plebes broke their losing 
streak on Friday night by walloping 
Monongahela City High School, 35-18. 
at Tech gym. The game was fast and 
interesting despite the unequal score. 
The pass work of the 'Plebes went a 
long way towards defeating the Mon 
City tossers.
The Plebes started with a rush and 
were never headed. They continued 
the good work in the second half and 
as a result their jinx was broken.
McVicker was the whole works for 
Mon City and but for him their de
feat would have been worse. The 
lineup:
Tech35 Mon City18
Lowstuter -----...F....................Taylor
.Tones ...........F............... Barberd
Siferd.................G..................McVicker
Berryman ........C.................. Ceniti
Smith ................G.................... Boggs
Substitutes, Parker for Lowstuter, 
Giiggsj for Siferd, Barrogh for Ceruti, 
Comfort for Smith, Smith for Comfort, 
Comfort for Berryman. Goals, Parker 
3, Jones, Siferd 2, Berryman 5, Com
fort, "Smith 4, Taylor 2, McVicker 4. 
Fouls, Jones 3 out of i), Taylor 3 out 
of 10, McVicker 3 out of 9. Referee, 
Byman.
MY STUART P. SMITH
WRESTLING TEAM MEETS W. VA.
Captain Bob Donovan of the wrestling team will lead his matmen in their 
first match next Thursday nignt with the 'Westinghouse Club. This will be 
in the nature of a practice session for the trip to Morgantown Saturday, whon 
the Plaid wrestlers engage the Mountaineers in a series of malchos. The 
Tech grapplers are all in fine form and have been training steadily since 
the first of the year. This will be the first wrestling match In which Tech 
has entered a team and a great deal of interest is being shown in the 'result. 
West Virginia has a veteran aggregation, though, who have been through 
many matches, and the success of the Tech team will not, be judged by the 
number oL decisions they take, but by how hard they extend their rivals. H 
the team comes through in good shape several other meets will be arranged 
and some eastern team will be brought, to Pittsburgh.
EASTERN TRIP
WESTINGHOUSE RESERVES
DOWNED BY PLEBES
In a preliminary to the Tech-'Westinghouse game on Saturday night at 
Wilkinsburg, the Tech Plebes made it 
two straight by downing the Westinghouse Reserves, 29-22. The game was 
rough and exciting throughout. The 
superior team work by the Tartans 
was responsible for their victory.
The Reserves took the lead in the 
first few minutes but Tech could not 
be downed and at half-time was lead
ing by one point, 17-16. The Plebes 
maintained their lead throughout the 
second half but it was never enough 
to be comfortable until the last few 
minutes when, they scored three field 
goals and the game ended 29-22. The 
lineup:
Tech29 Reserves22
Lowstuter .......F................. Reed
Jones -------------:F.................. 'Sellers
Siferd ............C............. OBrien.
Berryman .............G........... Barges
Smith ....................G................ Becker
Substitutions, Parker for Lowstuter, 
Stillman for Sellers, Westergard for 
OBrien. Goals, Reed 2, Sellers 2, 
OBrien, Bardes? Becker, Jones, Par
ker, Berryman 3, Smith 4. Fouls, Reed 
6 out of 12, Sellers 2 out of 3, Jones
11 out of 16. Referee, Mates..
The basket ball five leave Wednesday on a four-day trip through New 
York state to play Colgate, Union,, Renssaler and.Buffalo. Coach hidings lias 
been priming his men for the past two weeks for the journey and they are 
in fine shape. The trip will be a gruelling one, due to playing each night 
and traveling during the day. which will test the condition of the squad to 
the limit. Colgate and Buffalo will be the hardest contests on the. Plaid 
itinery, each school boasting a fast team. Buffalo comes here next week for 
a return game.
SCHEDULE
Place.
February ISKiskiminetas Preparatory School...............^..Saltsburg
February 19Indiana Normal School ;................................... Indiana
February 24Alumni Basket Ball Team.............................Tech- Gym
February 25East Liberty Y. M. C. Reserves...................Tech Gym
February 26South High School ........................................Tech Gym
March 1-Westinghouse Club Reserves.............................Tech Gym
March 8-Kiskiminetas Preparatory School.....................Tech Gym
March 11K. of C., Grafton ...............\...............................Tech Gym
March 12-Alumni Basket Ball Team.......................New Kensington
% The Athletic Staff of The Tar- * 
J* tan needs a few men. Positions  
?J* are filled by competitive works. * 
v Applicants see S. P. Smith in  
?Z* Tartan Office, Friday 12:45-1:30. *
HOLIDAY THURSDAY
FREE FEED THEN A. E. F.
YE PUFFERS
Dr. Fred J. Pack, speaking at the 
University of Utah, of experiments he 
had conducted on smokers and nonsmokers, said: Smokers successfully 
complete 23 hours work while nonsmokers successfully complete 29 
hours' work. In athletics, 68 nonsmokers make the teams while only 
33 smokers are successful.
Ive got no kick coming said the 
gentleman with the gout.Utah 
Chronicle.
(Continued From Page One.)  
given. Sosome two Tech men and 
two Tech girls are going to receive 
not only the satisfaction of a substan
tial gift to the Athletic Fund, but the 
privilege of going with the team oil 
the two biggest trips ever taken, and 
with all expepnses paid.
Andto the class that secures the 
highest toial in proportion to its mem
bership the Alumni Council will act as 
hosts at a banquet to be given at the 
conclusion of the campaign, and will 
give other recognition, the nature of 
which is yet to be determined. So, in 
summary, it amounts to this:
A holiday, with a chance of talking 
Tech and aiding her teams.
A free feedand a real one.
A chance for a trip to see Tech beat 
State and W. and J.
A chance to help the class and self 
in the banquet competition!!!!
Students at Rose Polytechnic In
stitute, Ford ham University, Holy 
Cross, State College and many other 
colleges and universities, taking part
in the drives at their schools, have 
secured in many instances the largest 
contributions made to the campaigns, 
and with no return to the public save 
the satisfaction of having made the 
gift. In the_Tech movement for every 
S10 subscribed an athletic book, valid 
for every home contest next year, will 
be given the donor. This will not only 
answer the purpose of securing the 
funds necessary to carry Techs sport 
program and policy forward, but will 
also build up attendance at the 
games, stimulate public interest, and 
establish closer relationship between 
alumni and students than ever be
fore.
Alumni and students of Pitt, W. and 
J., State and other colleges and uni
versities of the entire east are watch
ing the progress of "Techs A. E. F.,M 
with mingled emotions of admiration 
and. curiosity. What will the Tech 
response be to the statement that 
"It cant be done and Youll never 
put it over?" Many other schools, 
with similar problems of adrainistratlon and finance ir. their athletic de
partments, contemplate similar moves 
in the event that TepH's proves a win
ner. In the language of the classics 
WHATS THE ANSWiER?"
PLAID PASSERS REPEAT
VICTORY OVER ALLEGHENY
(Continued From Page One.) 
ending 25 to 11, with the Plaid on the 
long end of the count.
The second half was only a repet iTho Plaid boxers lost their moot 
with the Midshipmen at AnnapOlls 
hist Saturday, the latter winning six 
straight bouts. Owing to the stringent, 
rules Which govern contests at the 
Academy the bouts did not dovolop 
much real fighting.. All the Tech 
men made a very creditable showing 
against their veteran opponehts and 
all the matches went to the limit.
1.15-pound class - Waggoner, Navy, 
won from Carfana by decision In throo 
rounds.
125-pound classWon by Sebald,
Navy, from Martin In first round.
(Martin injured his lelt arm by 
fall).
135-pound classWon by Jones,
Navy, irom Wittmer,* by decision In 
three rounds.
145-pound class- -Won by Miller,
Navy, from Campbell by decision In 
three rounds. ,
160-pound class Won by %otti. 
Navy, from Bhunbaugh in second 
round.
Heavy weight---Mission, Navy, won 
from Comfort by decision in three* 
round 3.
tion of the preceding one, the Sklhos 
having J-hings ^pretty much to themHelves, until the end of the contest. 
Hamman carried off individual scoring 
honors with seven field goals, followed 
closely by Dosey with six. Gibson and 
Nichol played fine games and kept 
down the Westinghouse scoring. The 
lineup:
Tech52 Westinghouse29
Dosey ...............F.................... Kelly
Hamman ...............F............... Klause
Bell .....................C.-................. Cupp
Pitman . .................G.............. Davies
Nichol  ...........G..............' Youngk
Field goalsDosey 6, Hamman 7, 
Bell 1. Pitman 2, Nichol. Gibson z, 
Kelly 3, Cupp, Euwer 3, Youngk 3. 
Foul goalsDosey 8 out of 13, Kelley
9 out of 13. Substitutions, Gibson for 
Pitman; Euwer for Davies. Referee, 
Mates.
COUNCIL HOLDS BUSY MEETING
(Continued From Page One.) 
scription has been included in the 
Student Activities Board portion.
The Song Competition Committee 
reported that ?85 had been 
secured for prizes. There are to be 
four separate contestsa general con
test and one each for Design School, 
the Dormitories and the Fraternities. 
Prof. J. V. OBrien of the School of 
Music has consented to act as judge 
in the contest. A book is to be made 
tip of the most appropriate songs. The 
contest is to be finished by the end of 
the quarter.
Division of Industries Board of 
Governors, Alumni Association, will 
hold Its regular monthly meetingTiioj!- 
day evening, February 15, al; 8 p. m., 
in the Alumni Office.
Industries Alumni Smoker, Thurs
day, February 17, at 8 p. m., in. Car
negie Union.
Pittsburgh Clan Luncheon, Chamber 
of Commerce, Saturday, February 1!;, 
at 12 oclock, to entertain the musical
organizations of Tech. A concert will 
he given after luncheon.
Princeton University will limit its 
enrollment for next year to 2,000 so as 
to Insure close contact between tho
I teacher and student.
A
THE TURKISH CIGARETTE

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDN ESDAY.FEBRUARY 16, 1921
TALK TECH-HELP TECHS A. E. FJ
INDUSTRIES ALUMNI
= SMOKER =
Carncg-ie Union Thursday, February 17
8:00 P. M.
OUR GUESTSTin: Faculty and1921 Graduating Class. 
We will have a jazz orchestra, quartet, pictures, boxing 
and wrestling mutches, Topics ol' the Bay,,Smokes and Eats.
NO ADMISSION -Your fac.e will let you in.
BE THERE
ALL TECH UNITED FOR
A. E. F. DRIVE-FEB. 14-21
\
ARE YOU COMING?
CAMPUS WEEK, MAY 12, 13, 14- 
RE-UNIONS A,X69i THAN LAST YEA R
Alumni DanccB 
Alumni Banquet 
Alumni Stunts 
School Inspection 
Qualification Day
PLAN TIJA'I
Tap-Day Exercises 
Baseball Games 
Tennis Matches 
Track Meets 
May Day Dances
PITTSBURGH TRIP 
That Old Tech Spirit. 
BACK TO TECH!
Pageant
Circus
Carnival
Concerts
Smokers
FOR MAY
SKIBO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME, 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
MARC YA RROW 
Collars
Cluecc.Peabody S-Co.Inc.Tfcoy N.Y. |J
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers1 e.quipment. Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
nnd Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOT CO.
120 SIXTH STREET
FRANK BROTHERS
FIFTH AVENUE BOOT SHOP
NEAR FORTY-EIGHTH 8TREET, NEW YORK 
DOOT8, SLIPPERS, HOSIERY FOR MEN, WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN
Pittsburgh, Jenkins
CHICAGO
Michigan Blvd.
BOSTON
Little Building
CLEVELAND SAN FRANCISCO
Athletic Club Whitney Bldg.
Building 133 Geary St.
NEW HAVEN
Hotol Talt
Bldg. Corner 
Washington St.
ST. LOUIS 
Arcade Building
Arcad
WASHINGTON
Woodward Bldg. 
opp. Shorolmm 
Hotel
BATTERY
Exide
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Baiun and Mellwood 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired * Recharged
llllllllUllllllllllllllllUIIUllllllllUlllllllllIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllUIUUIUDllllUINUIUIIDIllUlini
TECH CAFETERA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
iillll!l!lltllllllllllllllllll!lllllll!llllllllllllll>lllllll!lll!llllllliinillll!lll!llllllllllllllllllll!llllllll!::jll)ll!llllllllllllllim[llllllll!lllllllllUlllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllll!lllllll|ll|l|t|||||||||||
AUFHMMER EVANS
HATS
and
Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
Plans for $50,000 Goal Pre
sented to Tech Alumni and' 
Friends at Opening Dinner
1921-22 PASS ISSUE
TO EACH $10 DONOR.
Two thousand studentsthree hun
dred alumni in Pittsburghgoodness 
only knows how many outside the 
city, and friends of Tech and her 
alumni too numerous to mention in the 
column or so allotted the campaign in 
the Tartan, are taking part and giving 
of their financial, moral and vocal 
support to the A. E. P. campaign 
that got under way with, a bang last 
Monday night at the Varsity Cafeteria 
when Buddy Overend, Prank 
Haaren, Jim Sawders and other 
alumni and several friends oi' Tech 
outlined the plans of the campaign 
and explained the need for $50,000, the 
goal set in the movement to make 
Techs athletics and athletic equip
ment comparable to the rest of the 
school.
The executive committee, headed by 
Mr. Haaren and composed of W. F. 
Skinkie, Leffman H. Lee, William H. 
King, Jr., J. C. 'Sawdefls, Clarence 
Overend, Miss Helen 'Stewart, Miss' 
Edna C. Smith, Ed Rauli, Peter DeMuth, Dennis A. Casey, J. W. Bat
man and G. L. Tilbrook. Heading the 
Varsity 'Clan, Clan, Fraternity, 
School, Faculty, Class, Night School 
and Public Groups divisions are W. L. 
Moorehead, J. W. Batman, G. T. I-ieddaeus, Miss -Stewart, M. F.. Barrett, 
Jere J. Doherty, Mr. .Sltlnkle and Mr. 
Overend, respectively, assisted hy 
captain and team workers, including
A. J. i-Iynd, C. J. McCormack, J. L. 
Romaclc, J. H. Vos, F. b. Altdorfer, A. 
D. Beelcen, George Ellerton, G. D. Lain, 
Henry Levy, H. H. Kreider, F. L, 
Nuttall, J. H. Waxman and E. Ii. 
Hirsch, Edna C. Smith, P. J. DeMuth, 
Leffman H. Lee, W. H. Kirchenbower, 
W. H. Dosey, Fred McConnell, Marian 
Kiefer, P. D. Good, Bernice Krueger, 
Allen Bright, Fred Crabtree, Laura
B. Green, F. J. Buehler, K. S. Hen
ning, Lenore King, R. T. Cosgrove, 11.
G. Gannon,' D. E. Martin, Jr., Harry 
Stone, Elizabeth 'Gilt, A. C. Sprague,
H. R, Kochbar, J. J. Kennedy, M. .T. 
Kindall, L, L. Beeken, H. A. Weber, 
Katherine Haag, L. M. Black, C. L. 
Carroll, J. A. Compson, Elizabeth 
Yaglo, T. G. Klein, K. B. Weber, H, B. 
Greenwald and J. E. Meixner.
A. J. Dreux, general chairman of 
Student Groups, will have charge ol! 
the effort among the students during 
the campaign, and particularly on 
Touchdown Day, February 17th, when 
the entire student body will go forth 
in an attempt to equal or better the 
record of the alumni teams In the 
drive and to rival the achievements of 
the Alumni Business Teams under the 
leadership of Dennis A. Casey, r08, who 
claim that their total will be the high
est for at least one-third of the days 
of the campaign, and at the.top at the 
finish.
Monday night last was a gala- nlglit 
and one that served to bind oven 
closer to the hearts of alumni, stud
ents and the public the spirit of Tech. 
At a dinner held in the Varsity Cafe
teria the team captains and workers, 
members of the Board of Trustees, 
faculty, many prominent citizens of 
Pittsburgh and representatives from 
several of the Clans were present as 
guests at the opening dinner of the 
campaign of the Alumni "A. E. F. 
executive committee. "Buddy Ovei 
end, Frank Haaren, Rev. Maitland 
Alexander, A. J. Dreux, A. C. Estes 
and other speakers outlined the need 
of Tech for a really substantial, gen
erous athletic fund and practicable 
policy and the details connected with 
the launching of the campaign and 
plans for its conduct.
Tech spirit, manifested every day 
in the year, and particularly so on 
November 20th last, was in evidence 
in large quantity and few, if any in
door Tech meetings have had the un
bounded pep that [was preisent at the 
dinner, when the vital importance of 
continuing and strengthening the ath
letic system and program was brought 
home to the workers. Cheer Leader 
'Stewart and his assistants aided 
materially in the jollification of the 
occasion, assisted by the Industries 
orchestra.
Plans for the campaign include the 
reaching of all alumni and former 
students by letter phone call and 
personal visit during the two weeks 
of the campaign and a concentrated, 
continuous endeavor to bring home to 
every Teohite, and friend of Tech the 
necessity of putting the campaign 
across,' and thus realizing the double 
objective of raising the nooded funds 
and building up public and alumni 
spirit and attendance at Tech con
tests.
The campaign Is unusual In a num
ber of respects, principal of which are 
the fact that it is the first appeal, so 
far as is known, for the support of 
athletics at a collegiate institution, 
nnd more especially so because for 
every $10 subscription to the fund au 
athletic book, good for every contest 
at Tech during 1921-22 will bo given 
the donor.
GET ONE ! I I I
All Tech men and women who were 
registered in Tech for one year and 
left in good standing are eligible for 
associate membership in the Alumni 
Federation. This entitles them to all 
privileges except that of holding of
fice in the Federation, although an 
associate member may vote and act as 
a director on the Federation Board of 
Governors.
Some of our best men never grad
uated but they are still loyal support
ers and backers of Tech. We want all 
such men in the Alumni Federation.
GET ONE!!!
Send his name to the Alumni Office 
or have him forward a check for $2.00 
and we will put him on the mailing 
list at once. He will be able to keep 
in touch with Tech once more through 
the column's of the Tartan and tin 
Alumnus.
WE WANT , ALL TECH MEN 
TOGETHER.
REGISTER OF GRADUATES
Dont wait a minute longer. Send 
in 15 *2s now, before it is too late. 
No new edition for two years of the
Register of Graduates. Keep in touch 
with Tech through Tech men and 
women. G. L. Tilbrook, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
CLANS
To the officers of every Tech Clan, 
please bear in mind that the Tartan 
is now being read by over 2,000 grad
uates and former students. It is very 
important that all clan news appear 
in the Tartan for it is one of the best 
ways to keep the alumni together.
We would like to urge the secretary 
vt every clan to be responsible for 
sending into the alumni office notices 
and results of every meeting.
The alumni office is trying to do 
everything to make the association 
one of the strongest in the country. 
The clans can do their part by re
sponding to the above request and act 
as the right arm to the association.
CLAN SECRETARIES
Get your meeting and social an
nouncements in early for the Tartan.
Tech men and women join the clan 
in your district.
WHEN YOU ARE IN CLEVELAND
Drop in on the Cleveland Clan at 
luncheon each Thursday noon at the 
Mills restaurant. The Tech table is on 
the west side of the balcony. Lunch 
there and meet 'ta, real live Tech 
crowd.
The Hounds of Hell
will be the sermon topic of Rev. R. E. Beetham, D. D.,
Sunday Morning, 
February 20th.
PITTSBURGH CLAN LUNCHEON
Chamber of Commerce, Saturday, 
February 19, 12 Oclock.
The Musical Organizations will b; 
entertained by the Alumni, after 
which they will give a concert in tht 
auditorium for the members of thi 
Chamber of Commerce.
STYLES C0TAE 
A.ND GO WITH 
THE SEASONSThe quauty or\
OUR &00DS I '
LKf;YER CHANCES.
IP
S
TYLES may come and fash
ions may go, but the de
pendable quality of our 
men's clothing never changes.
At present we are convincing 
the careful dressers of East End 
that our suits and top coats are 
far in advance of any other gar
ments sold at such a low down 
figure.
We believe it would add to 
your stock of clothing knowl
edge and appreciation to take a 
trip through our store and make 
your selection of any suit or 
overcoat in the store
$27.50
ykmmmt>121 Penn
With acknowledgments to K. C. B.
Every- man in 
class 'knew he answer
In packages of 20 protected 
by special moisture-proof 
wrapper. Also in round 
AIR-TIGHT tins of 50.
PROFESSOR HASKINS.
WAS A kindly soul.
BRIGHT ON some subjects.
BUT SO absent-minded.
THAT ONE day at -the barbers. 
HE TOOK off. hla collar.
TO GET shaved.
AND FORGOT where he was.* * *
AND KEPT right on.
TILL THE cash-girl screamed. 
AND A barber stopped him.
HE WAS a great smoker.
BUT HED often put.
THE BURNT match in his mouth. 
AND THROW away.
THE CIGARETTE.
HIS STUDENTS loved him,
HE WAS so full.
OF FUNNY surprises;
ONE DAY he had a tube.
OF RADIUM and he told.
THE STUDENTS all about It. 
AND FINALLY, by mistake. 
INSTEAD OF the tube.
HE PULLED out one.
OF HIS cigarettes.
AND ASKED the class.
"WHAT IS the one thing.
WHICH DISTINGUISHES.
THIS MARVELOUS substance. 
FROM ALL others on earth? 
AND THE class roared.
THEY SATISFY.*  
W
HAT is it you've always 
wanted a cigarette to 
do? You know the answer. 
Chesterfields do itthey not 
only please your taste, they - 
satisfy! Its all in the blend 
a secret blend of fine Turk
ish and Domestic tobaccos. 
It puts Chesterfields where 
none can touch them for 
quality and value.
S
i^efterfidkl
CIGARETTSS
