REI-UND WEEK 
ON KEYS 
JUNE13hr
ATHLETIC 
BANQUET 
SAI.JUNE, 11
VOL. XV NO. 31CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. ENNSYLV \ IA.JUNE 8, 1921
$600,000 GYM FOR FALL OF 1922
,520,000 ADDED TO 
CARNEGIE TECH FUNDS
$8,000,000 Conditionally, $5,640,000For 25YearsExpenses$350,000 For Repairs. Separation of Two Institutions Re
commendedCarnegie Tech Must Have Popular Support
of
PLAID TRACKERS
BEST GENEVA
SEPARATE TRUSTEES FOR CARNEGIE INST. OF TECH.
"The new; $600,000 gym for Carnegie Tech will bo completed by the fall 
t 1922 and will probably be located where the present bleachers are. This 
much is known about the gym, for which the Carnegie Corporation recently 
appropriated $600,000. The sum of $350,000 has been named for repairs and 
replacement equipment. This money will be used immediately and by next 
fall many changes will be noted.For expenses over a period of 25 years $5,640,000 has been named, but 
the biggest item is the $8,000,000 conditionally given. The school can only 
acquire this endowment by the help of its friends. For every $1 given 
by friends the Carnegie Corporation will give $2. The time limit for this 
is July 1, 1946 and if the plan goes through $12,000,000 will be added to Car
negie Techs endowment.
' The report of the Carnegie 
poration on both the Carnegie Insti
tute of Ttchnology and the Carnegie 
Institute of Pittsburgh is as foliows:
As a result of joint conferences 
held by the trustees, respectively, of 
Carnegie Corporation of New York,
Carnegie Institute of Pittsburgh and 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, a 
adinite agreement has been entered 
into by Carnegie Corporation to 
give an additional sum of more than 
17,000,000 over a period of years for 
maintenance and development of 
the instituties.
The Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology now has about 4,000 students.
They come from' every State in the 
Union and from all parts of the 
world. The plan now to be carried 
out contemplates the full completion 
of Mr. Carnegies gift in developing 
at Pittsburgh a great" technical in
stitute available for the young men, 
and particularly those in moderate 
circumstances, not only of the Pittsdistrict but of-thovfrole eoun 
try. The plan is dstinctly national 
in scope..
Gifts to the Institutions.
Under the arrangements now 
made, the institutions ultimately-will 
have received from Mr. Carnegie, 
the Corporation and other sources 
more than $49,000,000. The financial 
program that has just been mapped 
out may be summarized as follows:
OUTRIGHT APPROPRIATIONS.
For Carnegie Institute of Pitts
burgh:
Additional endowment.... $2,000,000 
Cash to be used at dis
cretion of institute ... 672,888
For Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology: ,
For expense over a period
of 25 years .................. 5,640,000
For repairs and replace
ment of equipment...,. 350,000 
For a gymnasium, the 
planning of which is to 
begin at once ............. 600,000
OR. FITCH GIVES BACCAL.SERMON
If You be the Son of God 
Text. t ack of Moral Courage. 
What's Wrong With World
FREEDOM AND RESEARCH
NEW GYM MEANS ATHLETiCJlJTURE
Frank Haaren Outlines Possible 
Plans. New Advantages 
From Appropriations
EQUIPMENT PROVIDED
Total .............................$9,262,000
CONDITIONAL UPON ADDITIONAL 
SUMS BEING RAISED 
For. Carnegie Institute of Pitts
burgh:
(Continued on Page Four.)
STUDENT COUNCIL"MEETS
Last Friday afternoon the new Stu
dent Council assembled in the Mar 
igaret Morrison Faculty Room for its 
initial meeting,, with President F. I. 
Smith in the chair.
The 'following Senior Class Presi
dents and School Assembly Presi
dents made up the body: from Mar; garet Morrison, Miss Laura Bugher 
and Miss Helen Reed; from Arts, C.
: B. Reid and E. M. Stults; from In
dustries, C. A. Irwin and H. C. God;den; from Science, R. B. Nation and 
C. A. Blesch. The representatives of 
the Student Activities Board and the 
Athletic Council have not yet been 
'elected._
E. M.-Stults. was elected temporary 
^secretary and treasurer. Miss JBugher was elected recorder. The Presi
dent appointed R. B. Nation chairman 
of the Plebe Committee. The com
mittee, in conjunction with Dean Tarbeli is to make a recommendation in 
regard to the more or less unorganizl but nevertheless real hazing given 
:the Plebes the first two or three days 
at Carnegie. E. M. Stults was ap
pointed chairman of the Ring Com
mittee. This committee is to com
plete the work started this year of 
standardizing the degree ring worn 
by graduates of degree courses at 
Carnegie.
The Council got going with a snap 
and should equal the standard set 
up by this -years Council which prov
ed highly efficient in its faithful and 
untiring efforts in administering stu
dent affairs at Carnegie.
Saturday, at Beaver Falls, the Tech 
track team wound up its most success
ful season with a victory over Geneva 
College, on the latters field.
The Plaid team walked off with the 
events in easy fashion, in doing so 
broke three school records.
Miller, Techs fast distance man, 
ran the two miles* in 3:56, breaking 
previous record set by him. Dylceman 
started the race at a fast clip and 
Miller kept the pace throughout which 
enabled him to finish about' 200 yards 
in front of his nearest rival. Miller 
also won the mile run.
Lockwood and Smith were tied for 
first in the high jump at 5 feet, 10 
inches, this mark breaking the Car
negie rocord-b;'  .niches.
Pittman made .22 feet 7 inches in 
the broad jump, the previous Tech 
record being 21 feet 5% inches.
The 100-yard dash was taken by 
Tech, Kelly, 1st; Tallman, 2nd; Lock
wood, 3rd.
Shot put won by Tech, 1 Brogie 5. 
Comfort, 3 :Schillinger. In the 220- 
yard dash, Tech took first three 
places, Kelly leading. Brumbaugh, 
Donahue, and Hiller, were the firs-: 
three over the tape in the 440-yard 
dash.
Stoltz easily won pole vault, clear
ing 11 feet. In the discus throw 
Geneva placed first, Kalabich and 
Schilinger of Tech, making 2nd and 
3rd.
Sprinkle of Tech, won the hammer 
throw.
The meet was rather one-sided, the 
Carnegie tracdc men having things 
their own Avay. The men who broke 
records are to be congratulated, for 
the track on which they performed 
was in very poor condition. The meet 
was well attended.
NICOLA PRIZES AWARDED IN P. &
If you be the Son of God" was the 
keynote of the most excellent bacca
laureate sermon delivered by Rev. Al
bert Parker Fitch, D. D.t of Amherst 
College. Dr. Fitch, in Bpeakdng of 
the Humanity of the Scriptures, 
brought out the desire for physical 
proof of the divinity of man by the 
vast majority of mankind, rather 
than the moral proof. But "the stu
dent .should not go to college in order 
that he might better himself but that 
he may fit himself to help and benefit 
the world. The student goes to col
lege "kud leaves college with this ideal 
in mind but he soon finds that it is 
easier to run with the crowd and play 
tlie game as it is played rather thau 
stepping out. alone and working to 
accomplish that for which he was 
trained to think and do by the college 
or university. The physical courage 
is large and ever ready to prove itself 
but it is the lack of moral courage 
which causes the college graduate to 
remain obscure and just one of the 
people. The spirit of the university 
is the spirit of freedom and research 
and is the reason for the existence 
of the institutions of higher educa
tion.
Dr. Fitch proved to be a powerful 
and eloquent speaker, convincing in 
the force and, beauty of his delivery. 
He brought a real message to his 
hearers. The organ was played by 
Charles Pearson, one. of this year', 
music graduates. Miss Juliet Bartletti very beautifully rendered Come 
Ye Blessed.
GRADUATING CLASS 
LARGEST IN HISTORY
Hon. Wickersham Speaks on American IdealsRev. D. L. 
Marsh Gives Invocation - Honor Students Are Announced 
Degrees Are Conferred by President Hammerschlag Many 
Receive Diplomas and Certificates
In the short lapse of sixteen years, 
Carnegie Tech has made for itself 
a national reputation for the thor
oughness of its courses, an achieve
ment almost unequalled and at the 
time of founding, hardly hoped for 
in the degree of success attained. 
Th' class of 1921 is but the four
teenth to graduate and in that short 
life, the fame of the instituion has 
spfpad in such a manner as to attract 
students from all parts of the globe. 
The reasons are many but one of 
the most notable was the complete 
equipment and facilities for carrying 
out the scholastic aims, which how
ever, strangely enough, did not pro
vide for much in the way of the 
athletic development of the student 
boi.y. This point is now however, 
in the process of being remedied and 
the possibilities of the development 
of Carnegie Tech athletics, under 
the new conditions provided for in 
the. recent appropriation by the Car
negie Foundation of New York are 
such as inspire greater hopes than 
have eyer before appeared logical or 
possible.
The appeal of a well equipped, 
modern, up-to-date gymnasium is 
sucli to the average athlete, that 
many times, such men even in spite 
of their thirst for knowledge and 
thr. desire for a degree from a 
highly regarded educational institu;i.- ,;v REI slaved in their decision by 
kuch a factor. Carnegie Tech lias 
been particularly handicapped in this 
(Continued on Page Two)
MEMORIAL TABLETS FOR DORMITORIES UNVEILED
VARSITY CLAN CLUB 
ROOM COMPLETED
ALUMNI TENNIS
GETS 3-3 SCORE
Life, painting, first prize, $12, Ma
rion Huse; second prize, $8, Mildred 
Floyd; third: prize, 5, Mary Frances 
Murdock; honorable mention, Jean
ette Shirk.
Life drawing, First prize, $10-
Morton Winslow; second prize, $6, 
C. B. Moore; third prize, $4, divided 
between Edwin Stultz and Howard
Rothman.
Cast figure, first prize, $10
Gladys Moore; second prize, $6, di
vided between Thelma Leatherman 
and Mildred Englebert; third prize, 
$4, Dorothy Miller.
Illustration, first prize, $13Divid
ed between Morton Winslow and C.; 
B. Moore; second prize, $7, divided 
between C. R. Wilson and Mary Fife.
-Illustration, Freshman, first prize, 
$5Vincent Roy; honorable mention, 
Teasdale Barney, Marion Stoddart.
Black and white composition, Soph
omore classFirst prize, $5, S. R. 
Wilson; honorable mention, C. B. 
Moore and Robert' Allen.
Black and white composition, 
FreshmanFirst prize, $5, Norwood 
Robeson; honorable mention, Teas
dale Barney and E. R. Couse.
The 1920 Varsity returned to Pitts
burgh for the express, purpose of trim
ming-the 1921 Varsity, and also to 
give them some good stiff competi
tion before their match with Penn 
State. They did not quite succeed in 
the tfimming game, but ca;me so near 
to doing so, that the result might be 
practically considered a victory for 
the 1920 Varsity. Jack Beatty re
turned fi*om somewhere up the Ohio 
and played against Keil in his first 
match since the last match of the 
1920 season against Grove City, and 
showed such a gcfod retention of form 
that Keil had the time of his life in 
defeating him. Stockslager came 
from Philadelphia and clearly showed 
the lack of practice. There was no 
accuracy, and practically a total in
ability to return the hard shots placed 
to him by Schwartz of thisyears 
team. Toots Davis showed his old 
time form, he being the only one who 
was really in good playing form. His 
drives were hopping all over the 
court, and his serve came like a can
non-ball. In fact, Toots was the 
old Toots of the 1920 season. Ne
ville playing his usual good game, 
gave him a regular good old fight 
(Continued on Page Four.)
TECH ARCHITECTS 
HOLD BIG SMOKER
A smoker for many architects of 
this city and for the faculty and stu
dents of the Architectural Depart
ment was held last Friday evening 
in the Senior Drafting Room. This 
was the first event of that nature 
held since the formation of the De
partment in 1905. The affair was 
given a good start with music render
ed by members of the Department.
Dean Bossange welcomed the 
guests, who were either members of 
the Pittsburgh Chapter of the Ameri-1 
can Institute of Architects or of the 
Pittsburgh Architectural Club. He 
mentioned that the smoker was-held 
in order to get the practicing archi
tects of the city in closer touch with 
the students of the school. 1-Ie also 
suggested the appointment of a visit
ing committee who would offer any 
suggestions for the development of 
the Department.
Mr. Rainsford, Head of . the Archi
tectural Department, issued a farewell 
to the Seniors and read a summary 
of the work accomplished during the 
year at the Beaux Arts Institute,.New 
York. He announced that he would 
not be with the school next year, and 
wished to thank the"faculty and stu(Continued on Page Two.)
The fourteenth annual commencement was held last Monday at the 
Carnegie Music Hall. President Hammerschlag presided. The program 
opened with an organ number by CharleB PearBon.
A few remarks by the president, mentioning the debt we owe to MrB.
Carnegie, the Carnegie Corporation and local trustees for the splendid ap
propriations to the school enabling us to pass the crisis of the Institution.
The invocation was delivered by Rev. Daniel L. MarBh, D. D.^ of the 
Smitlifield Street Methodist Episcopal church.
o.o.o'Hon. George W. Wickersham, for
mer Attorney General of the United 
States during the Taft administra
tion, delivered the address of the
occasion. He is a native of Pitts
burgh. A member of the Boards of 
Trutstees of Carnegie Institute, at 
Washington, the University of Penn
sylvania and was well qualified to 
talk to college students. In his 
speech he emphasized such ideal 
principles as the obligation wo owe 
the community. The philanthropy 
of our successful men for the educa
tional advancement by establishment 
of institutions of learning.
Ho especially commonded the noblo benofaction of Andrew Carnegie.
The most valuablo ideas were con
tained Jn these remarks: Reading
with understanding make men wise. 
Knowledgo without wisdom 1- fool
ishness and leads to destruction. 
There is no royal road to happiness 
any more than there is to learning. 
Strength and happiness como as a 
voault of application and tlio roal. 
ost human happiness is realized by 
overcoming, obstacles. Ono hundred 
por cont Americanism means wholehearty attachment to American 
Ideals, traditions and prlnciplo. No
body is entitled to a living from the 
hands of socloty, but everyone should 
havo an equal chance. There must 
be justlco and fairness among all 
classoH. Wo must protect our na
tion from attack especially from 
within, law and order must prevail. 
Mr. Wickersham stated that a $500,- 
000,000 naval program was planned. 
Ho Inferred that this was a mis take. 
The otlior groat powers are willing 
to enter into an agroomont to roduco armament and the citizens of 
this. nation must entor a protest 
against any gigantic military pro
gram to our roprosontatives at 
Washington.
Tlie degrees woro conferred and 
diplomas and certificates presented 
by tlio president to the largest class 
In the history of the school.
The announcement of the honor 
graduates of this years class at the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology was 
made by President A. A. I-Iamerschlag. The honor graduates of the 
Division of the Arts were Frederick 
McConnell, Esther Topp and Helen 
Eshelman. Those of the Division of 
Science and Engineering who achiev
ed like distinction in their courses 
were Charles Marvin Blackburn, 
Isaac Sissman, Charles Joseph Code, 
Carl E. Peterson, Bernard Edward 
Lenehan, Walter John Blanko, F. E. 
* (Continued on Page Four.)
The Varsity Clan in co-operation 
with the varsity men in school have 
been working very faithfully on the 
project of a varsity club room in 
the gymnasium. All details were 
completed and in readiness for the 
housewarming on May 7, the morn
ing on which tho gymnasium caught 
afire, the blaze doing the greatest 
damage directly underneath tho club 
room. Tho well laid plans were for 
the time being entiroly frustrated 
and it has taken practically a month 
to again place tho room in condition 
to meet its purpose. During tho past 
week the room has been in use and 
has proved to be a most popular in
novation. Tho room- was decorated 
under the personal direction of Mr. 
Sollom, profossof of TntorJor Deco, 
ration in the Division of Arts and 
the colors of the walls, hangings 
and furniture harmonize in a man
ner s as to create commont.. Tho 
trophy icase has a position of honor 
in the room and It will now bo tho 
duty of every varsity man, now and 
old, to gather Jn from all sources, 
all trophies, bannors, cups and pic
tures to tills room which Is a fore
runner of the proposed club and 
trophy room which will be provided 
for in tho new gymnasium.
The thought has boon volcod many 
times by former letter men that 
there was no recognized pormanont 
place for tho safekeeping of athletic 
trophies and the icltib room Is tho 
concrete evidence of tho proaont var
sity clan organization effort to pro
vide such a place. Many individuals 
have In their possession, articles 
which they havo cared for, awaiting 
the time wlion the call which is now 
made, would' come.
At the present time, the only pic* 
(Continued on Page Two)
COMBINED ATHLETIC BANQUETSATURDAY JUNE 11-ALL INVITED
P. & I. ELECT SENATE REP.
The P. & I. department has elect
ed Martha Levy and Dick Beatty 
for Arts School _ Senate.
See Frank HaarenAthletic Ban
quet.
June 11th is the da:/- set for the 
big combination Athletic banquet in 
honor of the baseball, track and ten? 
nis squads. The banquet referred to 
will be held at 6:00 p. m., Saturday 
evening, June 11th, at the Varsity 
Clan Cafeteria and an innovation with 
reference to banquets of the past will 
be that it will be thrown open to the 
great number of Faculty Alumni and 
student admirers of the spring sport 
squads.
Reservations will be made at the 
office of the Graduate Manager at 
the rate of two dollars per plate. 
These reservations to be made not 
later than noon, Saturday, June 11th. 
All interested' are urged to send their 
check immediately.
Every effort will be made by the 
committee in charge, consisting of 
A. H. Tosteson, manager of baseball, 
W. A. McGill, manager of track and 
Louis Pitts, manager of tennis, to 
make this affair even more of a suc
cess than the banquet held at the end
of the season last year at the Lincoln 
Club. _
On the occasion referred to repre
sentatives of every one of the Pitts
burgh papers were present and the 
write-ups appearing in the papers the 
next day were such as to create con
siderable favorable comment on the 
part of the public as well as numerous 
requests from the Alumni and stu
dents that the next year's banquet 
be made an open affair.
The coaches of all of the Athletic 
teams and a number of prominent 
Pittsburghers will be present as 
guests. The committee have arrang
ed a vdry attractive program jand 
menu, the results and scores of tlie 
various squads will be reviewed, the 
captains for next years squads will 
be elected and all that remains on the 
part of the student body and the 
Alumni to make this last big athletic 
event of the year go over as the big
gest banquet of the season is the co
operation of all.
OVEREND PREDICTS 
NEW ATHLETIC FIELD
Techs latest victory from an educa
tional and athletic standpoint came 
with the announcement by the Boara 
of Trustees of our new Gym to be 
erected at once. We feel sure that 
this will be followed by our new ath
letic field.
No announcement was ever receiv
ed with greater joy by the alumni and 
students. From our earliest days, 
back in the fall of 1905, we heard of 
the great Gym and now that our 
dreams have come true we know that 
this is the biggest boost that has 
ever been given Tech atheltics.
ARCHITECTURAL CLUB ELECTS
On Friday afternoon the Tech Ar
chitectural Club, consisting of Charetters from the Architecture Depart
ment, assembled at a meeting with 
the same pep that has been significant 
of them in all their work.
During the meeting an election of 
officers took place, the following be
ing elected: President, Mr. Ilighberger; vice president, Mr. Hinckley; sec
retary, Mr. Nusbaum; treasurer, Mr. 
Rank,
Plans were discussed to make next 
year the banner year of tho club. Tho 
club Is one of tho best of its kind on 
the Campus. Tho members of thi* 
club are elected each year from tho 
three upper classes, but due to sev
eral reasons no elections have been 
made this year.
| Penn State-W. & J. |
*:* XX Just a word to the wise who A 
A return next year. Life wont be 
y half so enjoyable to those who X 
are unable to take the trips with ! 
the football team to Washington 
*j* and Penn State. Plans are now X 
\t, in progress to obtain special *\* 
y trains for both trips and the ob- *:* 
*:* ject of this warning is to sug- ?*. 
*. gest that the expenses of same y 
y be included In next years per- X 
X sonal budget. Your next year at j* 
*j Carnegie Tech will- not be com- X 
X P,ete wlth-iut the experience and 
A pleasure these excursions, fol- V 
V lowing the team, will give. X 
X The first issue of the Tartan X 
j. next September will, if present *t* 
j* plans materialize, present an X 
X arrangement whereby weekly 
payments cart be made to some X 
 centralized authority, on the or- X 
X der of a savings club. This will *** 
y make It easier to provide for X 
X expenses of the trips and It is A 
hoped every student will , avail  
?* himself of this opportunity to X 
X help root for the team on for*- 
v

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 8, 1921
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie JnBtliute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Acllvltles Board.
Entered in the PoBtoflica of Pittsburgh as second-class matter..
WILLIAM D. IIALL.....................................................................Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Schenley 9009
WILLIAM 11. MILLS ............................................................ Business Managor
Telephone, Schenley 9211
M. M. D. NEWS
HELEN LEWIS, Editor.
EDITORIAL STAF-F
V. II. STROMQUIST 
KENNETH ARNOLD1
/
H. D. SONNEMANN .... 
E. L. REILLY ................
BUSINESS STAFF
CONTRIBUTORS
C. F. BOWERS 
E. F. BROWN 
H. F. DIETER
This Issue
C. A. SIIAW 
O. A. DICKMAN 
H. SIMPSON
The Edltor-ln-Chlef la responsible for the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
policy of this paper; the
GOING FORWARD
Every Carnegie man and woman probably received the sur
prise of. their lives last .Sunday when they scanned the headlines of 
their papers and beheld recorded in black and white the great 
NEWS. ... 7After weeks of patient waiting following the investigation made 
by the committee from the Carnegie Corporation, all possible doubt 
and foreboding concerning the future of the institution has been swept 
aside forever. In this, our time of need the great'ideals and purposes 
of our Founder were not lost sight of by those who are carrying out 
his cherished desires.
. The appropriation of approximately $17,000,000 increased en
dowments will allow the carrying out of a program of expansion 
and grbwth which will forever insure the place of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology among the foremost educational institutions 
of higher learning in America, if not in the whole world.
The magnitude of the appropriation can hardly be comprehended 
or measured as a matter of dollars and cents. The results which will 
come from the wise distribution and use of these funds by'the Trus
tees will be felt in the future'as those who graduate from-this insti
tution find their place in the world and make a name not only for 
themselves but one which will bring honor and glory to their Alnia 
Mater.
Probably the most tangible result of the gift will be evidenced 
by the erection in the near future of that. long wanted and much 
needed gymnasium.
RETURN OF KEYS AND DEPOSITS
All students should note carefully the following announcements 
concerning the return of locker keys, drafting room keys, and labor
atory deposits:
1. All locker and gymnasium keys should be returned to Room 
2, Industries Building, before June 18th, 1921.'
2. Drafting room keys should bp returned on or before,that 
date to the department concerned so that it may issue a re
lease slip which the student must present, on or before 
June 18th, at Room 2, Industries Building, in order to obtain 
refund at the.Cashiers Office.
, Biology, Oh cm., Physics, Met. and Dormitory Room Deposits 
will be paid the week of June 13th.
A. N. HEYL, Cashier.
ENROLLMENT FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR 1920-21
Division ofDayNightTotal
ScicncQ and ICuginooring .................................1,0154681,483
Arts ..............................................................;............. 404265660
Industries ................................................................... 6291,1081,737
Marcarci. Morrison ................................................ 84285427
Applied Psychology ............................................. 24064304
Total................:...................................................2,6 01,9904,620
NEW GYM MEANS1 11)01-0 Will 110doubt bo spiiool'or li L
ATHLETIC FUTURE
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
roflpet, suoli condition boing to 
onto extent tlio result of circum
stances, for while the original plans 
lor ilio development of the campus 
and bUlldingB provided for an ade
quato gymnSsIUm and stadium, tlio 
construction of samp was indefinite
ly postponed because of the advent 
of the World War with Its accom
panying high prices. As a result of 
this turn of fate, the preBent field 
house wliicli originally was Intended 
to function for another purpose, has 
of necessity been utilized, to provide 
for the dvolopmont of intercollegi
ate athletics. The inadequacy of our 
athletic equipment has generally been 
acknowledgedas well as decried 
and condemned. Prospective students 
, could -be shown the various build
ings with their wonderful and com
plet equipment with justifiable pride 
but when finally, the gymnasium was 
reached, there followed explanations 
and apologies.
The athletic authorities, the stu
dents and all are very grateful to 
the Carnegie. Foundation for the gift 
which will make it possible to give 
to Carnegie athletes', facilities that 
will he on a par with the generally 
acknowledged excellence of its scho
lastic and technical reputation.
With the completion of the gym
nasium will bo opened new opportun
ities for the development of the new*
 or sports, the devotees of which 
are now clamoring for recognition, 
namely hoxlng, wrostling and swim
ming. All of the varsity teams will 
linvo adequate and up-to-dato dress
ing rooms, space will ho available 
for coaches and student, managers 
headquarters and the-present conges
tion will bo a thing of tlio past. In
ter mural athlotlcB will develop un
der ideal conditions which will in turn 
arouse interest In and develop men 
for varsity athletics who might 
otherwise go through their college 
career without a knowledge of their 
ability.
Instead or the present small basket 
hall court taking up as it does prac
tically the entire area of the floor,
loast throe practice courts with ade
quate seating capacity to provido 
for tlio yearly growing Intorost in 
the gamo. The Indoor development 
of the track men, callilng for an in
door track and other facilities will 
come In for consideration. The base
ball and tennis squads will have 
space never heretofore available for 
starting oil their early indoor prac
tice.
It is only logical to assume that 
with the wonderful athletic plant in 
prospect,- actually built that some 
means will be found to provide for a 
suitable stadium to accompany it, 
either wltliln the sum granted or by 
other means. With such facilities 
tending to make for better students 
and higher scholastic standings, it 
is only to be expected that enthusi
astic Carnegie Alumni whose spirit 
and pep have never been excelled 
see a possibility of making Carnegie 
Tech a national byword, athletically 
as well as scholastically.
SENIOR ASSEMBLY
The last and moat impressive as
sembly of the year was held Wed
nesday.
The Assembly Hall was decorated 
with palms and cut flowers, the route 
farewell of the Freshmen to the 
Seniors."
The Seniors filed in and took their 
accustomed places. Miss Breed spoke 
to them then on Making the World 
Go 'Round. Her talk -wag very sug
gestive and enjoyable.
Eleanor Schomberg, representing 
the Sophomore class, gave their fare
well to the Seniors.' ,
The Juniors "sang their* farewells 
and the Seniors sang theirs to the 
school. They filed out singing.
And they were gonefrom their 
last assembly.
MISS HENDERSON WINS TENNIS
ARCHITECTS WIN AGAIN
The Architecture Department again 
went over the top and took highest 
honors at Beaux Arts, when the jury 
awarded P. C. Reed and E. W. Klee 
3rd medals. Mr. Reeds problem was 
also awarded a publication. His prob
lem is to be published in American 
Architect, a weekly magazine. The
The final match of the girls ten
nis tournament was played Friday 
afternoon between Dora Belle Hen-1 problem was a Villa in the Style of
derson of Design School and Helen .Palladio. The problem was completReed of Margaret Morrison. | ed by seven from this school.
Throughout, it was a closely
matched game, played with true
Tech sportsmanship. II was conclud-j. 
ed in three sets, the winner bejng 
Miss Hendeson, Miss Reed carried 
off the first set, Miss Henderson the 
second, and the third set was played 
up to 5 to 4, with the latter in the 
lead. Miss Henderson won the last I 
game and set.
The cup was presented to the; 
winner by its donor, Mrs. Alderdyce.
SENIOR PICNIC EVENTFUL
Fricks Woods proved to be the Sen
iors destination Thursday afternoon 
for their final get-together as a class. 
They assembled In front of Maggie 
Murph and lifter ma'king' lemonade, 
piled into trucks, and sought a good 
time away from the campus and civili
zation.
Everyone helped to gather fire wood 
and by the time the sun had' disap
peared behind the trees groups of 
Seniors sat around the fire roasting 
steak on pointed sticks. Fresh rolls 
and lemonade, together with ice 
cream, topped with roasted maVshmallows, completed the picnic menu.
Maw Mawhinney showed lie had 
spent most of his days behind the 
fountain of the village drug store by 
the manner in which he dispensed 
with the ice cream, and P. D. Good 
proved that his'-mean line doesnt 
go when he was placed at the end 
of the bread line after getting in at 
the wrong place.
By the time the eats had been dis
pensed with, darkness had settled 
over the happy crowd and the re
mainder of the evening was spent 
around the roaring camp fire, singin; 
old familiar songs and having a gen
eral good time.
Dot turkle seemed to enoy fall
ing off a log and Mrs. Spencer showed 
her skill by taking first prize in the 
left-handed stone throwing contest. 
A large part of the evening was spent 
with torches in a vain attempt to 
locate Ruth Quicks liat.
The fires died low and the tired 
but happy Seniors tumbled in the 
trucks and returned to the campus, 
that is, eventually. The return trip 
proved to be the most exciting part 
of the picnic for one doesnt often 
see a Liberty army truck break 
Llie speed limit. Whether it really 
broke the speed limit or not doesn't 
matter-but at any rate Meredith Elliot 
lightened his bank roll by ten dollars 
when he left that amount with tlirmagistrate at No. 4 for driving a truck 
on the Boulevard.
Jesse Harris also experienced a lit
tle hard luck when he fell from a 
tree and broke his ankle, but what is 
a little accident and an arrest when 
tlie Seniors are having a picnic.
SOPHOMORE-SENIOR TEA
/Friday afternoon at Forbes (Hall, 
the Sophomores very delightfully en
tertained tlio Seniors at tea. The 
surprise of the afternoon was a Jack 
Horner pio, coverod with the Senior 
colors. Glngorbread men were pulled 
out at tlio ends of the yellow rib
bons. Oakesall sizes and sorts: 
wqero served with iced tea.
Mrs. Scales and Mrs. Weaver acted 
as hostesses. The committee in 
charge was as follows: Priscilla Al
lison, Henrietta Adamson, Gertrude 
Lyons and Anne Weber.
SOMETHING NEWTECH
SHOE REPAIRING SHOP 
Let Us Put Your Spring Shoes 
in Shape.
N
Gif tsoh 
eIn THE CAMPUS 
4523 FORBES Near Craig
WEVE FITTED FEET 
OVER FIFTY YEARS
P.LUOEBUEHUSON
SHOES AND HOSIERY 
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 
THE WONDERFUL new styles t 
of Mens STETSON OXFORDS 
are Impressing those who have 
seen them with visible elation. 
CORDOVAN 
TAN CALF 
BLACK CALF 
TAN KID
BLACK KID THE PAIR
$12=
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
THE JUNE BREAKFASTiHiiiiiii'iiiiiiiiiiiiiii]uiiiiiiiiuuiiiuiHi(iiiiiin!ii:i:::
Saturday morning in the practice 
House, the Faculty and Juniors of! 
the H. E. Department entertained j 
the Seniors at the annual June 
breakfast. This is one of the mosti 
enjoyable of the - farewells and; 
one of the "traditions that pleases 
everyone.
HOUSEHOLD EC. CLUB PICNIC
Wednesday, June 8, the Household 
Economics Club, with their Fairy 
Godmother and Vice Fairy God
mothers, are going to fare forth fof 
frolic. All the girls of the club 
who like a good time not of the hot 
house variety (and this includes all 
of them probably) will goand its 
going to be a real picnic.
TECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
miNnraenriiflHiM^
SOPHMORE JUNIOR
VOLLEY BALL
Thursday afternoon at 4:30, the 
championship volley ball game was 
played between the Juniors and Soph
omores, the Juniors having beaten' 
the Seniors, and the Sophomores the 
Freshmen.
There was a great deal of interest 
in the game, the oracles about 
school having prophesied that this 
game would be the beginning of the 
end of Junior supremacy in ath
letics.
Andwoe is me!they spoke 
truly! At any rate the Sophomores 
won. They played a good game, the 
scores being 21 to 7 and 21 to 15'in 
favor of the Sophomores.
Their luclcy number is 21. Wonder if they wont change that old 
71 and make it 21, lets go!
NEW Y. W. C. A. CABINET
FRANK BROTHERS
FIFTH AVENUE BOOT SHOP
NEAR FORTY-EIGHTH STREET, NEW YORK 
BOOTS, SLIPPERS, HOSIERY FOR MEN, WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN
Pittsburgh, Jenkins Arcade
CHICAGO
Michigan Blvd.
Bldg. Comer 
Washington St.
ST. LOUIS
Arcade Building:
NEW HAVEN
Hotel Taft 
BOSTON 
Little Building 
CLEVELAND 
Athletic Club
Building
WASHINGTONWood ward Bldg. 
opp. Shoreham 
Hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
Whitney Bldg. 
133 Geary. St.
The Y. W cabinet for the year 
1921-22 has been appointed. They 
are as follows: President, Mabel
Hiller; vice president, Ann Weber; 
secretary, Josephine Stewart; treas
urer, Winifred Rice; faculty adviser, 
Miss Bowman, religious meetings, 
chairman, Gladys Bogue; Bible study 
chairman, Hortensp Purdy, mission 
study chairman, Helen Lewis, finance X 
committee chairman, Florence Cutz, 
social committee chairman, Martha j  
Colegrove; associate news chairman, 
Isabel Winner; guild committee 
chairman, Virginia Pentz. The coun
cil members are Gladys Sloppy, Blaine 
Jessop, Mabel Snyder. The under
graduate field representative is Ma
rion Jones.
Special
14-Piece 
Drawing Set,
$10.00
Wolks
410 Market St.
Opp. McCannsWe Also Carry Slightly Used Sets at Very Low Prices
BATTERY
Exide 
SERVICE
CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Baiun and Mellwood 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired & Recharged
SENIOR LUNCHEON
The Senior luncheon was held this 
year at the Schenley, and was a big 
success.
All the Senior givls, Miss Rupert 
(their class sponsor), Miss Breed 
and Mrs. Scales, attended. Every 
bit of it was enjoyableand that 
searchng question that everyone an
swers (Yes  YesNoNot 
YetYes around the tables) was 
enlghtenlng as well as entertaining.
ANDERSONS MENS SHOP
OAKLAND STRAND BUILDBNG 
UP-TO-DATE STRAWS
This description would not be sented the medals given by me Beaux
VARISITY CLAN CLUB
ROOM COMPLETED
(Continued From Page One.) 
tures in the club room are some 
French posters kindly loaned by 
Colonel Fairley who brought same 
from France and incidentally, with
out -whose co-operation the club 
room could not have been such a 
success. It is the intention however 
and steps are now being: taken t.o 
obtain photographs of every varsity 
team which has represented Camegio Tech.
Much favorable commont. has been 
excited by the novel chandeliers 
which consist of threo baseball bats, 
the globes being fastened In the onds 
and with a baseball hanging in the
complete without acknowledgement 
of the efforts of "Buddy Overend, 
his wife "Mrs. Buddy and Frank 
Orbin to make it a success. It is 
unfortunate that circumstances de
prived the varsity men of its use 
until so late in the year, but it is 
safe to say that it will be a most 
popular place next year among the 
athletes.
TECH ARCHITECTS
HOLD BIG SMOKER
(Continued From Page One.) 
dent body for the co-operation given 
him.
Messrs. Laslimit and Dierks spoke 
for the Seniors.
Mr. Heclcert, President of the Pitts
burgh Chapter of the American Insti
tute of Architects, offered the support 
of the association for the school knd 
was very desirous of continuing closer 
association with the students. Other 
members of the Association, including 
Messrs. Leev and Boyd, former mem
bers of the faculty, and Mr. Trimble 
spoke along constructive lines in! re
gard to the school.
Mr. King, President of the Pitts
burgh Architectural Club, signified 
the willingness of the Club to help 
the school and students In any manArts Institute for work done by the 
students in the year 1917-18. He also 
reviewed the work of the school and 
especially that of the Senior Class, 
making special mention of Russell 
Simpson and H. T. Aspinwall, win
ners of the Stewardson and Municipal 
Art Prizes, respectively.
A personal invitation to the stu
dents was issued by Mr. King- for a 
picnic, to be given by the Architec
tural Club at the South Hills Country 
Club June 18th, and asked that all 
who wish to attend, notify Mr. Boyer.
Representing the Pittsburgh Chap
ter of the American Institute of Archi
tects, Mr. Heckert presented Mr. 
Lashmit with a medal given annually 
to the best all-round student in the 
Senior Class.
The evening was successfully con
cluded by the introduction of welcome 
refreshments and music.
center of tlio round plaque holding 
the bate, as well as the table iani.pl nor wltliln their power, and urged all
which is forihed by a football 
placed endwise upon three baseballs, 
t he shade of which is a product of the 
Margarot Morrison Division. Upon 
the four quarters of the football has
students to join the Club, which is 
largely ado up of draftsmen and 
younger architects. Messrs. Ingram 
Cha liant, and Boyer also spoke,
Mr. I-IoVnbostol, Patron of Division
MR.TAYLOR GIVES SUMMER 
P. & I. COURSE IN MAINE
composing the last four varsity foot-, the gathering, and suggested the conball teams. tinuance of similar affairs. He preMr. C. J. Taylor, instructor of the 
Painting and Illustration department 
is taking a large group of Federal 
Board stiulonts from the P. & D. de
partment to his summer home 
Boothbay Harbor, Maine, where they 
will engage in outdoor painting and 
sketching during the larger part of 
the summer.
Miss Alice Judson also an instruc
tor, will conduct  class in 'land
scape painting at Gloucester, Mass.
Keep J une 
Banquet.
11th open  Athletic
NEW RAILWAY STATION 
PRETORIA, SOUTH AFRICA
4 Equipped with Otis Elevators
T
HE land of diamonds lias developed 
wonderfully since the Boer war.
Modern buildings replace tlie one story struc
tures. With the new buildings comes an 
insistent demand for the highest forms of service 
that civilization affords.
Vertical transportation, as represented by Otis 
Elevator systems, adds its quota to the develop
ment of the newer countries. Because of Otis 
Elevators, single plots of land in our own 
country have become of more value Sian the 
richest acre of diamonds in the fields of South 
Africa.
, Otis created elevators and is responsible for 
practically all the improvements that- have led 
to the present efficient and safe . vertical 
transportation.
A!ost of the famous buildings of the world 
ate equipped with Otis Elevators.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of the World

---------------------------------------------------

 WEDNESDAY JUNE 8, 1921THE TARTANPAGE YHREEPLAID ATHLETICS
PLAID GROVE CITY BASEBALL TBBAY
This afternoon, at Grove City, the 
Plaid baseball nine will stack up 
against the fast Grove .City College 
team. In their last encounter the 
np-state college defeated the Tartans 
5 to 4, and . the Slcibo aggregation 
are out to reverse the decision. A 
short time ago the Presbyterians 
trimmed the St. Bonaventure nine 
7 to 1, and it will be remembered 
that Tech did the same thing to the 
tune of 8 to 2. Indications show 
that the game mil be one of the 
best and closest of the season.
REPORT OF CHESS MATCH WITH 
GENEVA
Tlie Tech chess team defeated the Geneva 
College cheBS team on the evening of May 
3lBt by a game score of 10-2. The match was 
played at the Pittsburgh Chess Club.' LineUps and individual scores were as follows: 
Tech.
Cuthbert, Capt. ------------ 1 % 1
Horelick --------------------------------% 1 1
Diamond ____________________. 111
Douden ------------------------------------Oil
Geneva.
Snodgrass, Capt; ----------------------0 % 0
McCarroll ______----------------^----% 0 0
Ransom-------------------------------------0 0 0
Patterson ----------------------------10 0
Score.
GamesTech, 10; Geneva, 2.
MatchesTech, 4 ; Geneva, 0.
ARTS PLEBES ELECT
The Arts school freshmen have 
elected the following officers for the 
Sophomore year 1921-22:
President, Vincent Roy.
Vice President, Phil Zimmers. 
Second Vice President, Philly 
Burgwin.
Secretary, Margaret Taylor. 
Treasurer, Walter Dieter.
Student Senate Representative, 
Joseph Mullen.
Boost your . schoolAthletic Ban
quet.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues. 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages 
A cordial welcome to all.
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. L. MOERSFELDER
BOXING TEAM
Next fall, when the call for candidates for the boxing team is made, the 
following men, who were representing Tech in that sport this past year, 
will return to school and again enter the ring in Techs behalf: Carfarga,
Sullivan, Kurtz, Martin, Hassel, Whitmer, Campbell, Hogan, Comfort, Griggs, 
Brumbaugh, McCarty, Roberts and Donahue.
There are many other men around school, and among the plebes enter
ing in the fall, who would be very likely candidates, and who could be 
developed into regular sluggers. It behooves all who are pugllistically in
clined to try out for the team in this sport which is so fast becoming popular 
in all the colleges. The above mentioned men used as a nucleus, the future 
of the boxing team at Tech looks bright.
NEW RECORDS ESTABLISHED
At the meet, in which Tech earned the right to claim the tri-state track 
championship, there were, two records shattered by men who represented 
Carnegie.
Hiller ran the mile in 4:33, which was faster than it had ever been run 
on the W. & J. track, and Schillinger who placed second in the discus throw, 
bettered the Tech record by six feet, throwing the discus 126 feet.
It is a great satisfaction to observe these points and it is a sure indi
cation that Tech is eventually coming into her own, in athletics.
BE AT THE ATHLETIC BANQUET!
The annual banquet, which is given for the men of Tech who have 
represented the school in track, baseball and tennis, will be held Saturday 
night in the Varsity Clan Cafeteria.
Unlike previous affairs of its kind, this banquet will be open to all 
who are interested in the athletic progress of the school. It .is the one 
opportunity-to get into closer contact with the athletic situation, and meet 
the representatives of Tech, who have so well upheld the records of the 
Tartan school. ' The teams which are to be entertained on that night are 
the best which have-ever been turned out at Tech, their, records show that, 
all being the best in this section. All those who are able should take ad
vantage of this chance to attend the banquet, and make reservations early 
with Graduate Manager Haaren.
HEARD IN SCIENCE
ProfessorLuke,. what do you ex
pect to be when you get out of col
lege?
Luke (miserably)An old man.
After six hours, labor, a member 
of the Freshman class at Richmond 
handed in his examination paper with 
the following pledge appended: I
solemnly swear that I have no 
knowledge of any of. the questions 
answered within, and have neither 
given nor received) information con
cerning them.
St. Pauls Cathedral
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses:, 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and 
11:00 A. M. on Sundays & Holy Days 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle Aisle, for Tecb 
Students.
FIRST CHURCH OF 
CHRIST (Scientist) 
CLYDE STREET
Services Sunday 
11 a. m. and 8 p. m. 
Wednesday Testimony 
Meeting 8 p. m. 
Sunday School 11 a. m.
All Are Cordially Invited 
To Attend.
C. M. Stauft
3702 Forbes Street
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers- equipment. Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
ISKIBOINNS
X " XRemodeled and j;
* Enlarged ?
CLEAN, ;};
WHOLESOME,
| FOOD |
| Served at best prices g 
| CIGARS CANDY :j:
EveryC ang aimmdghhrPCOLLAR
Cluelt.Peabody OrCo. Inc.Troy, N.Y.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS
and
Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
TECH LOSES 4-0 TO
WESr VIRGINIA NINE
The University of West Virginia baseball 
team made it three straight and a clean 
sweep of the series with the Carnegie Tech 
team by annexing the last of the series, it 
having been played on Tech Field. Had the 
Carnegie Tech men given faultlosB support 
to Warrick on the mound, the gamo would 
have developed into a good pitchers' battle, 
but in the crucial momonts errors by Techs 
so-called infield just about put the game on 
ice for West Virginia. On the other hand, 
had West Virginia made more miscues than 
they did, the gamo might have been more 
close in regard to scores made, but if bou
quets must be thrown, tlio West Virginia 
team certainly deserves some, because they 
surely did back up their pitcher, both with 
accurate and fast fielding. Time and time 
again, Tech would get a man on first base 
with no out, and Techs next batter would 
hit into a fast double play. Right along 
this line, it might bo appropriate to add that 
Tech completed n few fast double plays on 
their own account. All in nfl, there were 
bits of fast fielding on both sides, but from 
the Tech point of view, these flashy bits of 
fielding did very little to overcome the re
sults of "ivory-studded bits of work.
West Virginia Btarted off in the first in
ning. Madeira was hit by a pitched ball, 
and Rohrbaugh walked, the former tallying 
when Weik's drive to center went for two 
bags.
Things went along smoothly until the 
iourth, when WcBt Virginia again scored. 
With two gone, Evans was safe when Lynn 
erred on Evans easy grounder. Turkovitch 
next up sent a sizzling liner to center for 
two bases, scoring Evans from first.
Again in the sixth, Harrick hit a grounder 
to R. Doherty, who made the mistake of try
ing to beat the runner to the bag instead of 
throwing it to Warricjt as ho raced over to 
receive ijt.. As a result, Harrick was safe. 
Dorsey rfacrificed him to second, Harrick con
tinuing on to third, when R. Doherty drop
ped D.vilcskiB throw. Harrick came home, 
when Evans singled to center. The inning 
ended when Turkovitch hit into a double 
play, Lynn to J. Doherty to R. Doherty.
The final scoro came in the seventh, when 
Dvileskis erred on Maderias grounder. Rohrbnugh grounded to Dvileskis, who made a 
clean atop, but in attempting to tag Maderia out on his way to third, missed him, 
with all men safe. llarrick was safe on 
fielder's chilce, Rohrbaugh being nablied at 
second, but on the next play, Maderia scored 
on Weiks single.
The box score and summary:
Tech. Ab. R. H. P. A.
J. Doherty, 2b ______________ 3 0 0 5 2
R. Doherty, lb _____________ 3 0 0 12 0
Durkin, rn._________________ 2 0 0 '2 0
Godden, 1. __________________ 3 0 2-10
Irwin, c. ____________________ 3 0 0 2 0
McCaw, r. ___________________ 3 0 0 2 0
Warrick, p. __________________ 3 0 0 0 3
Dvileskis, 3b _________________ 3 0 0 0 2
Lynn, U-N____________________ 3 0 0 0 0
"Cappe --------------------------- 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ---------------------------27 0 2 27 13
WeBfc Virginia. Ab. R. H. P. A.
Turkh, 3b 
Madeira, lb 
Rohrbaugh, c. .
J. Harrick. 1.
Weik. ss. ______
S. Harrick, m.
Dorsey, r.
Wright, 2b ___________________4 0 0 3 3
Evans, p. ____________________4 110 3
fCapte -------------------------------- 1 0 0 0 0
Totals ----------------------------37 4 9 27 13
"Batted for R. Doherty in ninth.
fBatted for Madeira in ninth.
West Virginia ---------------------100 101 1004
Tech ------------------------------------000 000 0000
ErrorsR. Doherty, Dvileskis, Lynn 2, Turwovitch. Two-base hitsWeik, Turkovitch. 
Stolen baseTurkovitch. Double plays
Weik, Wright and Madeira 3 ; Lynn, J. Doh
erty and R. Doherty 2. First base on balls 
Off Warrick 3, off Evans 4. Hit with pitched 
ballBy Warrick (Madeira). Sacrifice bunt 
Dorsey. Left on .basesTech 3, West Vir
ginia 1. Struck outBy Warrick 2, by Evans 
5. UmpireDaugherty.
DR. BAKER BOES TO EUROPE
Doctor Baker left last Monday for 
Europe. He is going abroad for the 
summer for a vacation trip. He will 
go to London then to France and 
perhaps Germany. He has no defin
ite mission but will probably acquire 
some valuable information concern
ing educational and other European 
conditions. He will return next fall 
to resume his duties at the' school.
IT REALLY HAPPENED
HeOh, horrors!
SheSmatter?
HeJust found out that the clock 
that I've wound every day for six 
years is an eight-day clock.
First StudeWas she shy when 
you asked her age?
Second StudeYes, by about Jive 
years.
SKIBOS TAKE EASY 
8-2 VICTORY-W. RES.
The Skibo nine, running true to 
form, last Friday on the Tech field, 
took the Western Reserve team into 
camp defeating them S to 2.
The contest was full of unique 
plays, and rather slow The Tech 
boys showed thei/ superior play and 
ran wild in the second inning scor
ing six runs.
Featuring for Tech, Durkin again j 
made a sensational catch in center] 
field. Lynns sngle turned out to be 
a home run, when the Reserve boys 
were unable to hold on to the ball. 
Weiss pitched a fine, game holding 
the Reserve batmen to 11 hits. The 
score:
Tech .................0 6 0 0 2 0 0 0 *8
W. Reserves----00100001 02
TENNIS TEAM. 
CLOSES SEASON
METALLURGICAL AND MINING 
SOCIETY MEETING
On Wednesday evening at 8 p. m., 
June S, in Room 65, Science, the 
Metallurgical and Mining Society 
will hold its final meeting for the 
year. The faculty and students of 
Tech will have an opportunity to 
hear Prof. Roswell II. Johnson of 
the University of Pittsburgh speak 
on the subject: The Petroleum
Outlook. Professor Johnson is at 
the head of the oil and gas school 
at the U. of P. and well known ove 
the United States as an authority 
on his subject. The speaker and his 
subject should interest many at 
Tech and it is desired that there b< 
as many as possible at the meeting. 
It is open to all.
The new mining laboratories will 
be thrown open and those wishing 
tq, inspect them should come early.
Tlio Carnegie Tech tennis team closes their 
very successful seasoh with "two matches this 
Week. They incct Grove City and Allegheny 
Colleges at Grove City and at Meadvlllc. 
These two matches should .return decisive 
victories to Tech, in as much as wo have al
ready dofeated them on the homo courts. 
Gi-ove City fell before the playing, of the 
Tech racQuetcrs to the tune of six matches 
to nothing, while Allegheny fell by tlio same 
score.
This will fcloso one of tlio most successful 
tennis seasons ever experienced by tlio tennis 
team at; Tech. . It will duplicato the feat of 
the 1920 varsity by taking tho Tri-Stato 
championship. This means that,for two suc
cessivo years this titlo has been held by the 
Tech tennis team.
Every member of the team with the excep
tion of Captain Harkness and' Schmort* will 
return to Tech next fall to continuo their 
good work, with the result of again acquir
ing the . championships. Furthermore, it is 
expected that next years team will step out 
into other territories, and spread tho- good 
name of Carnegie Tech tennis throughout tho 
east by a series of matches with tho big east
ern ' colleges und universities.
ARTS SCHOOL FIR.E
At 1:45 a. m., Sunday morning, 
May 29, fire broke out in tho Arts 
Little Theater and almost complete
ly destroyed the back of the switch 
board. Due to the cool-headedness 
and foresight of 'Dad Mooro, night 
watchman, the possibility of a disas
trous blaze was prevented.  Upon 
discovering the flame, Dad turned in 
the alarm and then put tho school 
fire hose on It, extinguishing the fire 
before the fire department arrved. 
Early Sunday morning tho school 
Electricians Frost and Davy Gaither, 
were hard at work and Btayod at it 
so that the board was rewired, ready 
for action Monday evening. The 
cause has not been determined and 
damage has been conservatively es
timated at $500.0,0.
CARNEGIE-STATE - 
TENNIS 3-3
Tho IVch tenni tonni continued It mmntisfactory work in Its games away from home, 
by (leing with Penn Stato. It seems as iC 
tho tennis team cannot hit its strido whon 
playing on u strango court, having tied'thn-o 
matches* awuy from home, and/vin t\vo "I! 
these eliseti, on tho return match plnyod on 
tho homo court, won decisivo victories. Thero 
ought, to bo a remedy for this defect, in do
ing omo practice on strange courts in tho, 
City of Pittsburgh. Why not get somo 
matches with the various teams in the Pitts
burgh district, to bo played on their own 
courts,-instead-of bringlmi them al way to 
tho Margaret Morrison couytsf And iu pick
ing out. these toums to mept, pick out,,to ani ir 
who can give theiYV n sound! beating. It.lu fai* 
hotter to lose to. good tojuns as put put .'by 
the Pittsburgh Athletic Aiuociation, the Edgewood Club, and thereby','gain tho expi'rienco , 
and knowlodgu that .after. all youre pot 
good, than Co tie or cyen loso to eqjno oC 
these college teams who. y-e can always man
age to win from on our homo courts,, Tho 
Tech players hnvo got to learn that tlie ensy 
stylo of .amo, with tho ball always hjgh In 
tho air is not tho typo of game that wins 
from really good players. A good player 
can always kill high hallo. This was very 
much  in evi do.n co whon tho team met tho 
1920 Varsity. Tho 1020 Varsity, past .mastoru 
at tho art of tho qvprhead game, although out 
of practice, clearly' showed they were supe
rior players.- Let. , tho Tech, men leijrn to 
keep their- ball low, .and never givo, theiv 
opponents a ehanco to make an overhei\d kill.
Tho summary  of tho matches with 'Penn 
Stato, arc as-follows:
Boggs, tato; defeated Kell,, Tech; 7-G, G-7, 6-2. ; ,
WilBon, Stato, defeated Neville, Tech, 1-0,6-1, 6-i.r.
Schwarte, Tech, defeated Giithrie, State,
7-5, ti-t.
Schmort;, Toch, defeated Watte, State, 6-!), 
S-, 6-1.
Koll and Neville, Tcch, defeated Boggs and 
Guthrie, Stato, 6-Q, H-H.
Wilson and Pavsons, State, defeated 
Schwartz and Schmcrtx, Tech, -1-G, 6-rt, <5*-2.
Tho voluntary reporting of ab
sence by the student is the latest 
step in tho honor system at the .Uni
versity of Missouri. Owing to tho 
;lttr.ge classes In citizenship, tho Pro
fessors decided to dispense with tho 
calling of tho roll and assigning of 
seats.
With acknowledgments to K. C. B,
Nix: on the . Parley ^bostufff
Air- Tight Tins of 50 
Ask your dealer to show 
you the new vacuumsealed tins of 50 Chester
fields. A compact, con
venient and absolutely 
AIR-TIGHT packing 
the cigarettes keep fresh 
indefinitely.
A FRIEND of mlno.
WHO COULDNT speak.
A WORD of French,
WENT TO Paris.
AND THE first tiino.
HE HAD to got.
A HAIRCUT and shave.
HE PRACTICED an hour. 
MAKING SIGNS.
IN THE looking glass.
SO THE French barbor. 
WOULD UNDERSTAND him. 
AND THEN he went In.
AND WIGGLED his fingers. 
THROUGH HIS hair.
AND STROKED his chin. 
AND THE barber grinned. 
AND FINISHED tho Job. 
THEN MY friend thought 
HED BE polite.
SO HE gave the barber.
AN AMERICAN cigarette. 
WHICH THE barber smoked. 
AND MY friend pointed.
TO HIS mouth.
AND SAID Likee voo.
AND THE barber roared. 
AND SAID You BET.
I USED to smoke em.
WHEN I worked.
IN INDIANAPOLIS.
AND BELIEVE me.
THEY 8ATISFY1
H
ERES a smoke that talks in any 
language and needs no inter
preter. Light up a Chesterfield, 
draw deepand more plainly than 
words your smile will tell the world 
They Satisfy. Its the blend that 
does itand you cant get Satisfy7 
anywhere except in Chesterfields, for 
that blend can t be copiedI
CIGARETTES
DRWWKEE O YSKJU 1-3AA1 Co.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JUNE 8, 1*21ALUMNI PAGE
'ACTS FOB SCI B NCR ALUMNJt
Mj/ht bundred end twtinty-two ruen linvc 
ariiduntod from tho Dlvlalon ol idoneo ad 
Knginocrlng (lineo 1008.Throo thouiiand lrvt> hutidrcd moti bave bemi 
formo e aludunta of tiil dlvliiion fu r u ymr or mra nnd uro, thorofore, olliclblo for AttitoCluto Mombernldp. .HUIJ on March 1. 1021,thoro wru-only-328 
Cinld'UD mombora In tlda dlVlulon.
On Mnrcli 1, 1021, Ihoit wro G-iG i>ald-up 
nombora nnd nly 'Ifiif ol Uintto v.oro fcrodunloiij Um retti wero tarmar tudontu who filili 
Ihlnk ononidi of Tech lo Joln ber Alumni 
rimltij;'l'b. clona record*' aro nn follown:Porwmt
Graduati Xnld
00*_______________G5 21
 000 ________________Cf M
010 ______________50 215
4011....................- 42. 2
oli ___________ 64. ut
. 1013 ______________70 ii(r
014
I'ACULTY DEFEATS SENIORS IN
ANNUAL CLASH BY TUNE OF 8-4
I'nid Rank
5
016 _____________VT
*01 __________________7GIT ____________8Roi8 _______________r.o*020 ____________120800
&
I
r|70%
Aro you proud of your clami nnrt thn r.up-^V<rrfc lt 'litui plvon Tech nnrt-VOlfJt Alumni 
AauocInUon!Old you fully renile your <*UKnlion ta 
Carnu^to Tech and Ila Foundor?
Whntovcr your micccnii hw> fceon * duft 4nr#oly to your training reoelved vdlhln thr'Hounda ot Sdicnloy"-
Tho Juno louuo of tho Alumnu vdll curry Ilio nnmni of all dolinfjuonl Alumni nottiboro. 
IC you oca uny of your old clnuamnt finnica 
4n tlila lUt, wrlto tbom n Un and inflitti; thnt 
4hoy Kft in ood nlandlnff.Tha oyrfl of tho AdmlnialrnUon, Ilio floard 
ol Truatcc and tho Carnoglo Corporation are connUmlly on tl Ahimnl. Hovv con v/u **- 
.et tiv nupport o thoixi boditB fmancially. 
f vvo will not evc-Ti kIvo ur inorai wupport 
ty bccomlnK metnboru In iod Ktandin In 
tho Alumni?A now K-ymnaolum \u practlcnlly. nemircd lf 
wo show Ilio Carnoglo. Corporation v/e aro 
back of Tech aa onc nuin.
WE WANT 1,000 MEMBBRS UY AUGUST' J.00 YOUR BIT NOW.
V. W- REPRESENTATIVES
A.T EAGLESMERE
Tho delegate to tlio conferendo at 
Iaglesmero have been selcted. They 
re; Mabel Hiller, Floreuco Cutz, 
Gladys Bogue, Josephine Stewart, 
Melon Low Id, Virginia Pent/,, Isabel 
Winner, Vivian Schmucher, .Gladys 
Bleppy, Marlon McCombs, Ann 
Weber, Marlon Jones, HortonBo Pur
dy, Jane Markel, Ruth Glelohert, 
Mildred Lucas anil Miss Hownian 
who is the new faculty advisor.
\JESS HASTE 
AND BETTER 
CLOTHES* 
WVV IMPROVE 
Sour 
business 
CH^CESl
iHKfffiYlTfiW'iiii  i,
T
HE old proverb might be 
Improved to road, "Make 
hnsta clowly nnd f;tyIIclily." Every chnnoo that ever 
cornea to n man In thin life enn 
bo Improved If ho clothe himself 
In fashionable oorrectnenn.
Our nummer uults are utyllfihly wuarablo and priced In a con
vincing manner. Como In and 
convince yourself.
One of Oio jfrcatewt ffumoa aeon playd on 
the lomJ field Uilw year v/an Uic Faculty-Sfv 
nlor lituno hud Friday, tho Faculty v/lnnlnff 
l>y a ucorv of U to 4. It v/an exciting from 
lK)f(inniK to ond althouKb only fivo Innlncn 
ivpro played.
Hill Pfout twirled for tlie Faculty and had 
Uielr >iuinl>or at all tlmen. Ho hail aovcn 
utriko out for five InnlnKn and looked better 
overy Inning ho pitched. Captain Dorney foatured In tho floldlnt; end having gotten every 
try Hint camo bin v/ay. Vet" Wliliama v/an 
on tho mound for tlw Senior, but it muat 
have boen au off day for 'Vul for the Fac
ulty boy nuro pounded the pill. Hainan fea
tured for Ue Scfibiru.
CLAN NEWS
PITTSBURGH CLAN
Photojcraph of tlie varloua athletic team 
of Uiu nclu>ol for the predoni iwaiwn have been 
Inlccn for next yunr'u Thlntle. Snapshota of 
Uioao team in action and of other school
ovonltt have nluo boon taken. Any mich aapa _____ ____ ________ ____ __________________
will be ffrcaUy approcinted by the Thlntle ( the Clan ia Ivlnt? the band and anked that 
Ronrd if ((ivctt to C. F. Bowora or Kenneth next year wo analst thorn in every way poB- Arnold. 'ilio uiiccciM of any year book de- niblo.
The lnat meeting of tho PittHburfrfi Clan for 
tho nchool year 1020-21 v/aa hold in tho dlnink room of Kaufmann & Baerfl Thursday, 
June 2. There were about thirty member a 
present.
Mr. Frank Lanahan, the newly elected 
member to tho Board of Trusteea, was pres
ent an our Kuest. He npokc of Tech aa a 
/front Inntltatlon and expressed bin apprecia
tion of becoming affiliated with the Board.
Mr. R. W. Arnold, the past manager, and 
Mr. Fred Knowles, the mnnatrer-elect of tho 
band, wero preent. They npoke of the help
liendn tipon tho preaonce of numerous photocraphn. which ha VO been taken unawarea or 
without Npooiftl poalnK. Kindly Ret your pictureu to tho pemoiui mentioned now.
$6,520,000 ADOEO TO
CARNEGIE TECH FUND
(Continued From Page One.)
To- itccnte in 15 years on 
condition that an equal 
iunount Is raised for en-, 
dowment oC educational 
work ol! the Museum
and. Aifc OaUeiy............? 200,000
For Carnegie institute o Tech-.
nologj--:
Maximum to be paid by 
July lt 1.946, on a basis 
or . ior every $1 
raised from other 
sources ......................... 8,000,000
Reports were read of tho Bellevue concert 
nnd also of the dance and theater party. The 
financial report wan road by the SocrotarytrcRiiurcr leaving a balance for tho yoar of 
191.00.
Plana will bo worked out during the sum
mer months for tlie policy of the Clan next 
year. One of the big thinJT tho Clan hopea 
to accotnpllnh is to orranjre an attractive local 
concert tour for tho band, orcheotra and mu
sical clubn. The Clan elooen the year feeling 
that It linn been a very succeasful one.
SPECIAL NOTICE TO SCIENCE
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
Tho Science Board of Governora will be the 
KUents of Mr. and Mr. F. Gaston at their 
homo on 34G5 Parkview avenue for their final 
meetlnj; of the year, Monday evening, June 
13, at 8 o'clock.
Everybody out.
ALUMNI FEDERATION
The Alumni Federation Board of Governors 
will meet at 7:30 p .m. in the Alumni Office 
Wednesday evening, June 8. This will be the 
final meeting of the year and all committee 
will be expected to make final reports.
Every Board member Bhould make a special 
effort to be there on time.
GEORGE H. SMITH SCHOLARSHIP
The George H. Smith Scholarship Commit
tee has awarded the 1921 scholarship to Mr. 
John Gray Byler. The Scholarship Commit
tee wan very much pleased with the entire 
group of students who made application. On 
the whole, they were equal or even better 
than any group of students that applied 
previously for thin scholarship. The commit
tee further wishes to state that speciul n>entlon was made to Mr. J. W. Thomas.
Total ................................?8,200,00
BUMS TO  RAISED FROM OUT
SIDE SOURCES.
/For Carnegie Institute of
Pittsburgh .....................? 200,000
For Carnegie Institute of 
Technology .................. 4,000,000
Iefflpy-2>_W3;,
(jIZI (jIZ SZao.
Total ............................$4,200,000
Prom Mr. Carnegie during Ills life
time and later from Carnegie Cor
poration, the two Carnegie Insti
tutes in Pittsburgh have already re' 
ceived $27,(51)4,594,51, itndi the pres 
ent program supplements (hose 
funds. Consummation of the financial 
arrangements now entered into will 
result as folios:
P.roviou s appropriations 
made by Mr. Carnegie 
and Carnegie. Corpora
tion ............................?27,(i54,594.51
Present outright appro
priations ...................
Present appropriations, 
conditional upon rais
ing funds from, other
sources ......................
Sums to be raised from 
other sources ............
9,202,888.00
8,200,000.00
4,200,000.00
Grand total ..............$49,317,482.51
Carnegie Corporation some lime 
ago appointed two commissions to 
make a siirvoy, of tho work and 
scope of the two institutions and 
also to recommend plans whereby 
I hey could lie established upon a 
firm and lasting foundation that 
would yield! the greatest, ultimate 
benefit to the public and host carry 
out the Intentions of the founder.
Original Scopo Outgrwn.
The commissioners found that the 
Institute of Technology had far out 
grown its original scopo. Although 
It was established by Mr. Carncglo 
to sorvo primarily, if not exclusive
ly, the young peoplo of Pittsburgh, 
nearly one-half of its 4,000 students, 
the present student body, comes 
from other regions. The institute 
consequently has attained national
importance, as a technical school, 
while its reputation has spread not 
only throughout the United States, 
but to foreign countries.
"The Commissioners unanimously 
recommended that Carnegie Institute 
of Technology and Carnegie Institute 
of Pittsburgh, the latter compiisldg 
the Fine Arts and Museum Depart
ment and the Library, should be 
separated and that hereafter each 
should be controlled by its own 
Board of Trustees. The separation 
will be effected if legally possible.
The Commissioners report also 
stated:
It seems to be the inevitable 
lot of institutions founded by pri
vate philanthropy and heavily en
dowed to come upon a period when 
the Initial endowments no longer 
suffice and when no other sources of 
support are immediately available.
 If/ the experience of a long line 
of privately endowed institutions is 
any guide it is certain that no mat
ter what additions to the resources 
of the Carnegie institute of Tech
nology the Carnegie Corporation 
may be willing or able to make 
now, the time will soon come when 
that instituion also will have to ob
tain a part of its support from the 
communities which it serves.
Carnegie Corporation believes 
that the provisional feature in the 
appropriations now announced will 
promote the enlisting of popular ajipport andi the consequent quickening 
of sympathetic relations between-the 
institutes and the public at large. 
This policy is patterned after that 
whch has been adopted very gener 
ally by the large universities and 
colleges oF the^United States.
PAY UP, ALUMNIt -to New York and there resume his
-------- I practice as an architect.
Alumni dont forget our fiscal year ends Mr. Rainsford graduated from HarJune 30, 1921. Statements will soon be on HL 1on, i,n __j *their for t rear, due, ond It i. of vard in 1904' He complied hm
the mont importance that you pay up on re- studies at Ecole des Beaux Arts incolpt of th. fir.t statement. Bj doinB thl. m2 ,n m5 he enlisted in tho
French army and served during that
you relieve your mind of the fact that you 
have paid, and you help the Alumni Office 
by being prompt.
We muBt have 2,000 paid up members by 
August 1 In order to determine the policy 
of the Tartan for next year. It is. an es
tablished fact that the Alumni have helped 
greatly in puttlnpj the Tartan on its present 
footing. You have been kept posted of all 
Tech happenings and have read in every is
sue a lot of information about Alumni work 
which you never heard of before. In order 
to enjoy these same privileges and being one 
of your most important duties, we ask that 
you pay your dueB upon receipt of the first 
notice. Please co-operate and make it pos
sible for a 2,000 membership by Augurt 1 
and unless thlo la dono, we will, in all prob
ability, have to change our plans in regard 
to tho Tartan nnd you will receive only cer
tain issues instead of issues every week.
This is of vital importance to you as Alum
ni and to the school, so please answer to the 
call upon the first request.
SHIP AHOY COMPANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Keil and Neville, although at this 
time beter singles players than eith
er of the other two, showed just the 
opposite In regard to double play. 
They had their serve'.going strong, 
forcing the returns of Keil and Ne
ville to seek the high atsinosphere, 
and upon their return to the lower 
stratas of the atmosphere, were kill
ed dead by the overhead tactics of 
both Beatty arid Stockslager. Keil 
and Neville made the mistake of play
ing a lobbing game against the last 
years premier doubles team. In the 
other doubles match between Harkness and 'Schmertz on this years team 
and Marshall and Davis of the 1920 
Varsity, the same result was obtained. 
The team-work of Marshall and Davis 
showed marked superiority to the 
team-work of Harkness and Sclimertz.
The summaries of the matches:
Keil (1921 Varsity) won from Beat
ty (1920 Varsity), 6-2, 8-6.
Schwartz (1921 Varsity) won from 
Stockslager (1920 Varsity), 6-0, 6-1.
Davis (1920 Varsity) won from Ne
ville (192.1 Varsity), 2-6, 7-5, 6-4.
Schwartz '(1921 Varsity), won from 
Marshall (1920 Varsity), 6-4, 7-5.
Beatty and Stockslager (1020 Var
sity), won from Keil and Nevilie 
(1921 Varsity), 10-8, 0-4.
Marshall and Davis (1920 Varsity), 
won .from Harkness and Schmertz 
(1921 Varsity), 6-3, 6-4.
The following Is a complete finan
cial statement of Ship Ahoy Com
pany. The profits go to the Ath
letic Extension Fund:
RECEIPTS
Student Activities Board___? 250.00
Preliminary tickets ............. 928.50
Regular tickets .................... 1,124.45
Costumes .............................. 45.00
Miscellaneous ....................... 3.40
year, 1916 and the early part of 1917. 
In the fall of 1917 he enlisted with the 
American Troops in France and 
served as Captain of the Infantry in 
the 77th Division, where he distin
guished himself under fire.
In the fall o 1919 he came to Tech, 
where he soon made many good 
friends who regretted to hear of hla 
resignation. The Btudents and faculty 
wish him success in his future work.
GRADUATING CLASS
LARGEST IN HISTORY
(Continued From Page One.)
Swindells, William Arno Keller 
Matthew IT. Mawhinney and Addison 
Alvin Mankell, Tho honor night 
school graduates of the same division 
were Harold Putnam Greenwald, Eu
gene John Azingor and James Jenk
ins Hendersen, Jr. .From the Divi
sion of Industries, Harry Conrad 
l'ammah, Roy Verner Cafvert and 
Charles Hansford Gibson, Jr., gra 
ua ted with honors.
Tho war memorial tablets which are 
to he placed on the dormitories 
were unveiled. Each set consisted 
of two parts. One a bronze frame 
containing the picture and a short 
biography and war record of the stu
dent who lost his life in the war. 
The other is a plate bearing the fu
ture name of the. hall in honor of 
our war heroes.
The names of the old students 
who lost their lives in the war and 
for whom the. seven mens dormi
tories were .officially renamed at 
the commencement exercises are:
Lewis Hudson Boss of Washing
ton, D. C.; Herbert Frederick Englebrecht of Pittsburgh; Raymond 
Waldo Henderson of Pittsburgh; Ar
thur Harkness McGill of New Castle, 
Pa.; Harry Ward Miller of Carbondale, Pa.; Henry John Scobell of 
Cape Viacent, N.' Y., and William 
Filler Welch of Delaware, Ohio.
ALUMNI TENNIS GETS 3-3
(Continued From Page One.) 
from the beginning to the end. Both 
men played the same type of game, 
and from the spectators* point of 
view, was by far the most interesting 
match of the day, it being replet 
throughout with terrific driving, and 
smashing tactics. Phil Marshall re
turned to the campus from some
where outside of Pittsburgh and 
carried the good old fight to SclimertK 
In such a fashion that it lookod as If 
he would walk away with the victory, 
but Schmertz in tho long Vun held 
his own, and finally won out. In turn
ing this game his way, Schmertz had 
to play his best game of the season, 
for it must be admitted that Phil Mar
shall was playing In good form, show
ing not near so much a lack of prac
tice as Beatty and Stockslager.
In the doubles, the team play of 
Beatty and Stockslager was entirely 
up to normal. They played rings 
around Kell and Neville, completely 
showing tho results of long associa
tion together on the tenuis courts.
SCIENCE FACULTY AND
CLUB GO PICNICING
Total ................................$2,351.35
DISBURSEMENTS
Student Activities Board____? 250.00
Settings ............................................................... 531.56
Properties^............................ 32.54
Costumes .............................. 417.15
Music (orchestration)........... 140.07
Stage hands ......................... 365.50
Publicity ................................ 87.05
Personal property stolen____ 28.25
Miscellaneous (lunch for re
hearsal, printing tickets, 
hauling pianos, stationery, 
etc.) .................................. 68.21
Total............$1,928.63
Profits ................................? 422,72
LUTHER S. LASHMIT, 
Treasurer.
June 4, 1921.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES
IN ARTS SCHOOL
Then the Science Faculty invited 
the Science Club to breakfast, 
wave of curiosity spread over the 
school; it was certainly a new and 
original idea. The breakfast proved 
as enjoyable as the idea was new.
Memorial Day mornin'g, the faculty 
with the Science Club girls as their 
guests started out from M. M. D. in 
a big army truck. The event started 
off with a jolt, the signal for the fun 
10 commence and for Mr. Lang to 
hold 011. Everybody caught the spir
it and geethe fun we uns had. Mr. 
Staley was kept as bus'y as the 
president holding up his side of the 
truck, which he did to perfection, 
(he was near the eats.)
At Verona the whole town turned 
cut to see the last of the Verona 
parade, a noisy bunch of Tecliites 
in a truck, spouting . short-spellers. 
A happier bunch of joy-riders never 
wended Its way through Oakmont 
where, a distance from the town, 
everyone crawled off and started up 
the young Alps to a spot youve 
seen In your dreams.
Then came breakfast cooked in the 
woods. Close your eyes and see 
bacon, eggs and coffee- cooking on 
,a campfire. That wasnt all. It 
would make you too hungry to hear 
of all the goodies that went in witli 
the Science Bacon-fry. The absence 
of Honest Weight scales spared 
each scientist an embarrassing mo
ment. After breakfast all were on 
a run up the hillside like a flock of 
chicks suddenly let loose.
Mr. Moore revived old school mem
ories and went up a tree Ike a cat. 
The other half of the science depart
ment did an acrobatic stunt on a 
tree limb.
All too soon it was time to start 
back, but the hillside claimed a sou
venir in the form of one of Miss 
Ruperts heels. Who knows where 
the wet goods came from that found 
its way into the truck as it started? 
No one was steady enough to find 
his mouth (the road was awfully 
rough.)
Mr. Patterson landed all back, hap
py, but not in the least tired due to 
die facultys detailed preparations inthe floor of the truck. All however, 
had acquired a permanent complex
ion. After a presentation of. a lamp 
to Miss Rupert by the Science Club, 
and a. yell for the faculty, the 
13acon-fry, the mostest fun of all, be
came a memory to be fofever cher
ished.
Bo at the Athletic Banquet!
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonabe prices 
3719 FORBE8 STREET OAKLAND
1. Events to w'hlch all students
of this Division are invitedCostume 
Ball, Directors, Reception to Faculty 
and Freshmen, Dance given by Soph
omores, Dance given by Night Stu
dents.
2. Parties given by a school to
which other Students of this Divi
sion are invited:
Painting and Illustration, one 
(Mysterious Night)
3. Parties given by a school to
which only students of that school 
are invited and limited to that part 
of the building:
Schools of Music, Drama, Archi
tecture. and Applied Art, two each.
4. Each school to have one picnic 
in the spring.
5. No noon dances will be allow
ed next year (1921-22) but the stu
dents will be allowed to have a 
dance every Wednesday afternoon 
from 4:30 to 6:00.
It was voted, to limit all dances 
parties, etc., in this building to 
12 oclock, except the Annual Cos
tume nights or the night before a 
holiday;
SCIENCE SENATE
The old body of the Science Sen
ate held a meeting with the newly 
elected members Friday, May 27, for 
the purpose of reorganization for 
the coming year 1921-22.
The Senate for next year is made 
up as follows:
SeniorsH. W. Bryan, C. G. 
Blesch, R. B._ Nation, E. Weiss, I-I. 
D. Shyrm.
JuniorsC. C. Brumbaugh, J. D. 
Evans, T. S. Repplier, N. Thompson.
SophomoresT. N. Griggs, J. R. 
Hanna. One member still to be 
elected.
PlebesClass president to be
elected during first five weeks of 
school.
Junior AlternateP. C. Gannon.
The body elected C. G. Blesch to 
succeed C. B. Schmidt as president 
of the Senate; C: C. Brumbaugh, 
vice president; T. N. Griggs, secre
tary, and N. Thompson, treasurer.
The question of the Gear Groan 
and similar publications was taken 
up. A recommendation was sent to 
the Discipline Committee that the 
committee who edited the last Gear 
Groan be given one demerit each.
Hereafter all sectional publica
tions An Science School must con
tain the names of the Editing Com
mittee and they will bo held strictly 
accountable for the copy.
The new regulations recently 
drawn up by the Senate were given 
their first trial in the elections last 
week. The details of the procedure 
were discussed and aside from the 
fact .that the elections were some
what rushed tl\e sentiment was that 
the new system was highly satisfac
tory.
PROF. RAINSFORD RESIGNS
Prof. W. Iv. Rainsford, head of the 
Architecture Department, will resign 
from his position this June. Prof. 
Rainsford announced that he would go
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital  -  200,000.00
8urplu6 and Undivided 
Profits  . - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - *4,000,000.00
Safe Deposit Boxes for 
Rent
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK ,
Opposite Library
NATIONAL
RESTAURANT 
H. WARNER, Proprietor.
Oaklands Most Popular Eating 
Place
Special Evening Dinner 75c 
Best Plate Lunch In City 35c 
Two Blocks from Forbes Field 
ATWOOD, BETWEEN FORBES 
AND FIFTH
WRGLEYS ESI
Bright eyes, 
rosy cheeks, 
and red lips 
come from 
Eood digestion.
WRIGLEVS Isa 
delicious aid to tho 
teeth, breath, appe
tite and digestion.
ThatMlcdeanlur* aduna heaps tho (oodnt&s and davor Intiwi* oui dit fipd erma.
Do You Dance?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
JACQUES DANCING 
ACADEMY
Craig and Forbes
pSDIi!IIUBIIIIiUllllI!llliIIillllUllllBIDIIIIIllllllIIDIIIIBll!IlI!I!II!l!!lilliiHIl!IllillllllI!lll!tlE
I Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best Laun
dry Agency
lll!BHI!l!l!l!II!B!DII!UIMIllUU!li!lIil[lliIii!ll!!Hllll!!l!ill!lj
Grown 
Not Overgrown
Some big banks may 
think they have out
grown the little ac
counts.
Welcome remains 
our word to the small 
depositor.
Capital and Surplus,
$11,124,136.20Mellon National Bank
