RABBIT FEET" 
SATURDAY AT 
SCHENLEY THEATER
CAMPUS WEEK 
STARTS 
TODAY
VOL. XVII. NO. 33CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MAY 23, 192
NEW CHANGES 
ARE MADE IN 
MATH. COURSES
Unit Hours Reduced to Allow 
Training For Three Years, 
Courses Identical For Two 
Years. Elective in Jr. Year
PRIZES ARE OFFERED
The Plebes of next year and the 
years to come will never fully come 
to know the terrors that have so of
ten in the past been associated with 
the word. Math in the minds of 
their predecessors. Instead of the 
customary fifteen units of mathemat
ics which the Freshman courses of 
the Colleges of Engineering and In
dustries have carried until now, 
there will be but nine units of the 
 subject' included in the schedule of 
the first-year man. The courses in the 
. two colleges will be identical and will 
include a study of the more essential 
topics of algebra and plaip trigonom
etry, together with some anaytic ge
ometry and elementary calculus.'
The Sophomore year of the incom
ing class will follow this up by a 
further study of elementary calculus 
and analytics. The courses in the 
two colleges will again be identical 
and will count as nine units per se
mester. This terminates the study of 
Math, for students in Industries.
The Junior year of the class of *27 
and of all subsequent classes id the 
College of Engineering will, however, 
include a further study of Mathe
matics. The course during the first 
semester will take up additional top
ics in the subjects already studied, 
and during the second semester the 
time will be devoted to such mathe
matical work as the heads of the sev
eral departments may desire for their 
students. Each semester will again 
carry nine units for credit.
During 1923-24 there will be offered 
to students in the College of Engi
neering, who have satisfactorily com
pleted their Sophomore Mathematics, 
a course in Differential Equations, 
This course will he an elective and 
will he for a large part devoted to 
applications of the subjects studied.
 At Commencement there will be 
awarded on the recommendation of 
the Department of Mathematics sev
eral prizes for exceptional work done 
(Continued on Page Three)
C. M. E. Sv BANQUET TO BE
HELD AT HOTEL CHATHAM!
The. annual banquet of the Came
ne Mechanic Engineering Society 
will be held May 31 at the Hotel 
Chatham. The arrangements have 
not been definitely decided upon as 
yet but everyone is assured of a good 
dinner and talks. All Mechanicals 
are urged; to attend this banquet as 
it will probably be the last to gettogether until next year.
The committe has planned several 
novel features of entertainment and 
although the speakers have not been 
definitely decided upon, the faculty 
of the department will be listed on 
the program.
SECRECY STILL EN
FOLDS VAUDEVILLE
Newmans Formal Opening 
of Campus Week Will 
Head Program
O. B. Newman, having ueen held up 
on the campus by eight huskies, was 
forced to stop long enough to give the 
reporter a few facts concerning the 
vaudeville, with which he is to form
ally open Campus Week, Thursday, 
May 24. Being a conservative sort 
of chap, Mr. Newman withheld the 
chief items, for he said he would 
rather not say too much about the 
show. By squeezing his right hand 
with some severity, one of the hus
kies. forced him to admit that Bill 
Magough would perform on the wire.
Carnegie Architects 
Win European Honors
Two Candidates of Seven in 
Contest Are Arts Men
Carnegie Tech architectural stu
dents continue to win new honors in 
national competition as was evi
denced with the information received 
that L. S. Lashmit, and Paul F. Simp
son, graduates of Carnegie, are among 
the seven candidates admitted to the 
final competition for the Prix de 
Rome. The Rome Prize Scholarship 
is awarded annually, entitling the 
holder to study for three years at the 
American Academy in Rome, and it 
shares with the Paris Prize Scholar
ship in being one of the two highest 
honors available to architectural stu
dents, in this country.
The competition is open to every 
architect in the United States, and 
hundred of candidates enter each 
year. The judgment of the prelimi
nary drawings submitted was made 
in New York, and - seven architects 
were selected to enter the final judg
ment. The 14-hour sketch in the fin
als wlil be held May 26, the devel
opment of the problem to occupy the 
four weeks between May 28 and June 
23.
The placing of Mr. Simpson in the 
final competition is unusual because 
he has already won a high national 
honor in winning the award this year 
of the LeBrun Traveling Scholarship, 
which is also open to national com
petition. The LeBrun Scholarship 
will enable him to study in Europe 
next year for six months with all ex
penses paid Mr. Simpson is a grad(Continued on Page Two)
TO LAY CORNER 
STONE OF GYM 
SENIOR WEEK
A. A. Stagg, Famous Foot
ball Coach and Athletic Di
rector at Chicago Universi
ty to Be Principal Speaker
EXERCISES ON JUNE 13
A. A. Stagg, famous football men
tor and physical director at Chicago 
University has accepted an invitation 
from Presideut Baker to give the 
principal address at the laying of the 
cornerstone of the new gymnasium 
Wednesday, June 13. Definite accept
ance of Mr. Stagg was received yes
terday.
In Coach Stagg, Carnegie Tech has 
secured for speaker one of the most 
successful directors of athletics in the 
country, and whose presence at the 
occasion will add much to the sig
nificance of the cornerstone laying 
exercises. As the head of athletics 
at Chicago University, he occupies 
one of the most important jobs of the 
present day. Pie has been Director 
of Athletics at Chicago since 1900, 
and testimony to his success in that 
capacity was shown in 1914 when the 
university built a huge athletic field 
and named it Stagg Field, in his 
honor.
He was born in West Orange, N. J.,
PEG HARMON IS
CAMPUS QUEEN
Popular Drama Star is Win
ner on Final Ballot For 
Queen Which Was Held 
Last Wednesday
QUALIFICATION DAY AND
THE CALL TOMORROW AT
CARNEGIE TECH FIELD i
Tomorrow isj Qualification Day and \ r I p ( I pi) |H I ) |\
the time wheal tho honorary fraternl- A LL/ L IV
ties will make their call. It is a | 
very important day in the history of 
the school for on that day one more 
class is officially recognized as oue 
of Carnegie Tech.
It is also a day upon which those 
who have worked and brought honor 
to their Alina Mater, receive their re
ward.
Everyone should witness these exer
cises which will be held at 1:30 p, 
in., on Carnegie Tech Field.
FULL HOUSE WILL 
SEE RABBIT FEET
CORONATION THURS.
All Seats For Evening Per
formance Sold. Space is 
Available at Mat.
Peg Harmon, _ a drama student in 
the College of Fine Arte, was elected 
Queen of Campus Week at the final 
election held last Wednesday.
Miss Harmon comes from Mt. PleasThose more fortnate members' of 
the student body who survived the 
stampede last Thursday will be able 
to attend the performance of RabbitFeet, the Campus Week play to be 
held at tho Schenley -Theater, Satur
day, May 26. The evening perform
ance, which is Intended for the alum
ni, will be given to a capacity house, 
for all the seats are sold with the 
exception of the two in the motion 
picture booth. However, the students 
performance, which is the one in tho 
afternoon, will be tho big attraction. 
Seats are available at $1.00 at the 
box office, and will be on sale at thoBill, the high flying hammer slinger, 
has developed a queer knack for walk- j in 1862, and was graduated from Yale i theater before the performance.
ing on suspended things. He has 
promised to walk across the wire 
from the Margaret Morrison building 
to the Mellon Annex, but owing to 
the fact that the roof of the annex 
leaks, it is thought best that this 
feat be done away with. Bill, how
ever, has made a similar plan, and 
will expose it in his stunt Hokum on 
the* Wire, at the vaudeville.
Herb Polesie and Hardie Allbriglit 
will do a stunt with their usual trim
ming, and it is supposed to be as 
funny as a crutch. The girlsM. 
M. C. C. inmatesare working day 
and night on their act for the vaude
ville. It is rumored that it will be a 
prize winner, although there is no 
prize, and aside from being the best 
of its kind, it is the only thing of its 
kind ever attempted, no one else, hav
ing the nerve to try it.
The rest of the show Is a big, dark 
secret, and that is all Obie would say, 
so when tho huskies let him go he 
flew to the "Tap room to go ahead 
with the rehearsal of Rabbit-Feet.
MARDI GRAS PHOTOGRAPHS TO 
BE TAKEN IN LANGLEY LAB.
A photographic studio will be in 
operation Friday night in the Lang
ley Lab. by the school photographers. 
Accommodations are being arranged 
whereby everyone in costume can be 
photographed. Pictures of those in the. 
best costumes will appeal* in next 
years Thistle and] the Pittsburgh pa
pers.
FRATERNITIES READY 
FOR MIGRATORY DANCE
It doesnt take much reasoning for 
a person to become! convinced that 
there is going to be something doing 
in the Carnegie fraternity houses to
night. Of course everyone knows 
that tonight is to be the big interfra
ternity migratory dance, the night 
when every fraternity tiies to be at 
its best to show off to its fellow 
fraternities, the alumni and to 
friends.
Almost every one of the fraterni
ties resembled a junk shop during 
the past week as preparations were 
being made for decorating the houses 
and; caring for the visitors. Many 
novel schemes of artistic decoration 
have been worked out at the various 
houses, many surprises have been 
made ready! for the opening dance 
which has been' set for nine p. m.
Seventeen fraternities of the 
eighteen on the campus will take 
part in the big dance by opening 
their houses to the fraternity world. 
The Delta XLs, however, will hold 
their dance at the K. of C. Hall in
stead of in their own home. Delta 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Requirements of An Engineer
As Stated By Dr. Rittman
This article was written for the 
Carnegie Tartan by Dr. W. F. Ritt
man, head of the Department of Com
mercial Engineering:
{n the United States, today, there 
are approximately 60,000 members in 
important national engineering socie
ties. There are approximately 60,000 
students in American institutions 
studying in preparation for their life 
w!orlc It does not require higher 
mathematics to equate these two 
numbers and to conclude that the pro
fession of engineering is popular to 
the extent that, if all present engi
neering students were to follow their 
present intentions, the number of en
gineers in this country would approx
imately double in four years. The 
question of supply and demand 
promptly looms up for serious consid
eration. Will all these students fol
low the engineering profession? A 
man does not always follow what he 
has studied in college. There will he
a large number of these engineering 
students found in other fields of ac
tivity. Many of these engineering 
students will be found among the 
ranks of merchants, of business men, 
of lawyers, or even of actors; in fact 
the whole gamut of human activities 
will be represented. But for the stu
dent who definitely plans to follow the 
profession of engineering, the question 
of requirements of a successful en
gineer becomes extremely important. 
Obviously, no man can answer this 
broad question because his answer 
would at once be narrowed by his own 
particular education, experience, and 
background. If he were a successful 
mechanical engineer, who had made a 
specialty of designing steam turbines, 
he would unconsciously outline a set 
of requirements which would fit in 
with his own abilities and background. 
This would be all right if we all as
pired to become steam turbine design(Continued on Page Three.)
in 1888 and from the Y. M. C. A. Col
lege at Springfield, Mass., in 1892. In 
that year he went to Chicago Univer
sity as professor and director of the 
department of physical culture and 
athletics
In football, the name of Stagg has 
bocome a name of authority, and since 
1904- he has served as a member of 
tho Football Rules Committee. Under 
his coaching, Chicago University has 
produced football teams considered 
among the foremost in the country.
The laying of the cornerstone will 
be made in connection with tho cere
monies and celebration of Senior 
Week. An elaborate program will be 
carried out in connection with this 
'ceremony which will mark tho par
tial realization of the dreams of Car
negie studonts for a new gymnasium 
and the development of a broader 
athletic program.
Bridge Party at Mellon 
Hall Saturday Afternoon
Saturday afternoon, Campus Week, 
the girls of Carnegie Tech will cele
brate by holding a Garden Party and 
Bridge at Mollon Hall. Tables for 
bridge and five hundred will bo set 
up in the hall, while the Garden Party 
will frolic on the hill in back. Those 
desiring prizes will play for a speci
fied length of time.
Japanese decorations and refresh
ments will add to the pleasure of the 
Garden Party. The Tartan Entertain
ers will provide a musical back
ground. Also an interesting feature 
of entertainment, which is being kept 
secret, will be presented. Tickets 
are now on sale in Margaret Morri
son and Arts School. The girls will 
he the hostesses. Buy your tikctes 
now. Invite your friends and make 
up your tables. The Garden Party 
offers shady trees, pleasant nooks to 
chat and feed.
Do not think that this is a girls 
affair exclusively. Men are invited asi 
well, in fact they are absolutely es
sential to the success of the party.
Matthew Frey, of the Music Depart
ment, has collected tho best talent in 
the RABIIA into one orchestra, and this 
he will direct: at the two perform 
ances. The music which Is connected 
with the playrepresenting the orch
estra for tlio barbecuewill bo fur
nished by Giles Orchestra,
The cast is completed, and tho show 
is fast being rounded into the final 
shape by Chester Wallace, who is do
ing tho work of director. Knowing 
the great success Mr. Wallace mado 
of, Harry Hamiltons play Youre 
Next wo can predict a similar 
even greater success in Rabbit-Feet, 
for tho occasion will lend some inspi
ration.
Tho Pittsburgh newspapors aro pos
tering tho life otit of Harry Hamilton 
in their quest, f<A* picturos of tho cast, 
but the author has decided to keep 
these picturos in rosorvo, maybe to 
be published the day of thcs show, or 
maybe not at all. Tho stago settings 
are .said to be works of art, and tho 
property men aro scouring tho city 
In search of atmospheric material.
Business Manager W. B. Cunning(Continued on Page Two.)
Commencement Ball 
To Be Held on June 15
All Undergraduates Eligible 
to Attend Dances
Industries Elections, Now 
Tied, to Be Held This Noon
Tho final vote on all Industries 
class officers, who are at present tied 
for their respective offices, -will take 
place this Wednesday between 12:30 
and 1:30 in the hall near Room 104.
The following ties are to be de
cided:
Senior Class TreasurerM. Buck
ley, H. Dosey..
Junior Class Vice PresidentM. D. 
Kallfelz, A. W. Mellor.
TreasurerM. A. Donohue, K. Kornman.
NEW STUDENT COUNCIL TO
BE PRESENTED TOMORROW
The Commencement Ball will bo 
rolled after twilight June -15. It will 
be the last social function of tho 
school year to which the whole stu
dent body is Invited. Every Carnegie 
Tech man, woman and child should 
be there with bells 'to keep the ball 
rolling.
Why? Because, for the Seniors who 
graduate there "aint no more such 
things while they are still students. 
Everyone else should be there to give 
the commencers a rousing send-off, 
congratulate them on their success or 
luck as it may be, and enjoy four 
hours of treading. The whole affair 
is a grand farewell party for the Sen
iors, so lets go and show them how 
proud we are of our newest models.
But "hold her, Newt, that isnt all 
the why. The Collegiate Six will, 
in all probability, furnish the wherewith-all to trip, stumble, walk (scan
dalously) and dance. All the upper 
classmen know what the Collegiate 
Six means in the way of nifty music. 
The two are synonymous. The orch
estra is playing all the time and the 
latest from the dance worshippers 
is that they are better than ever. Any 
of you Plebes who have never heard 
them prepare yourselves for the best 
there is. That about the Collegiate 
Six playing isnt sure dope yet but 
(Continued on Page Two)
I wish to meet all of the members 
of the Student Council for 1923-24 in 
the right corridor at Carnegie Music 
Hall promptly at 10:30 tomorrow 
morning.
Special seats have been reserved 
for the old andi new councils for the 
vaudeville show.
T. N. GRIGGS,
VOTE ON SORORITY QUESTION 
TO BE TAKEN IN M. M. TODAY
A final vote will be made in Mar
garet Morrison today to determine 
whether ther shall or shall not be 
sororities in that school. The vote 
is being taken following discussions 
of the questions which have been car
ried on for the past three weeks.
At last weeks assembly a very 
spirited argument over the question 
arose. Following the discussion a 
straw vote was taken and resulted 
in fifty-nine against and thirty-six 
in favor of permitting the entrance 
of sororities.
ELECTRICAL COURSE 
POPULAR WITH PLEBES
Since the establishment of the Col
lege of Engineering, it has been the 
custom to have all Freshmen pursue 
an Identical course, which would In 
some measure serve to give tho fac
ulty and the individual student an 
idea as to which particular type of 
engineering would best fit tho natural 
abilities and desires of tho student.
The same course was followed this 
year, and the/students that entered at* man, Ujl,
| LIST OF GIRLS' SCOOTER RACE, 
COMPETITORS ANNOUNCED
At last, the list, of competitors in I 
tho Girls Scooter Race has been an
nounced. Wo are not making any 
predictions, so pick out your own 
winner:
Upper Woodlawn, Selma Berger, 
Marjorie Snyder; Lower Woodlawn, 
Frances Talbert, Bernico Renta; Mol
lon Hall, Gertrude Lyons, Virginia 
Clark; Mellon Annex, Blanche 
Humphrey, Dot Esterbrook; Forbes 
Hall, Charlotte Durio, Ruth Gleiehert; 
Commuters, Helen Loyd, Naomi 
Montgomery.
CAMPUS WEE 
WILL OPEN WIT 
DANCE T0-NI1
Final Reward of Weeks 
Waiting Will Come W 
Big Assembly at Mu; 
Hall Tomorrow
SENIORS TO HAVE 
BUSY FINAL WEEK
Reception By President Baker 
Sunday Afternoon to 
Open Final Week
ant, Pa., and1 is a Senior. She has 
boon ono of tlio most active girls in 
the school. This year slio was vlco 
presidont of tho Arts Senate, vlco 
president of tho Drama Department, 
member of tho Sonlor Ball Commit
tee, Senior Woolc Commlttoo and a 
roatler in the Gloo Club.
Slio Is also a momber of tho Mor
tar Board, tho Girls' Sonlor Honorary 
(Continued on Pago Two)
S. I. E. Elects Officers 
At Smoker Last Thursday
Mr. Frod Gaston, President of tho 
Alumni Association, was tho principal 
spoakor at tho S. I. E. smoker and 
buslnoss mooting hold last Thursday 
evening. Prof. Loods introduced Mi*. 
Gaston tolling of his enterprise and 
success aa a student hore In tho earl 
lost classes of Carnoglo. Mr. Gastons 
talk was ol particular Interest to 
those men who aro about to leave thi 
scholastic stago and talco up a busl
noss life, and ho gave illustrations 
from among former students of. his 
acquaintance who had succoodod no
tably, and gave pointers from his ob
servation on what the collogo man 
should expect to encounter. He par
ticularly urged that they should lcoop 
in active touch with C. I. T. after 
leaving, for their own benefit as well 
as the schools.
A talk by this year's presidont, 
Rodge Marshall, was another feature, 
in which he reviewed the activities 
of the S. I. E. during tho present year 
including the several meetings, the 
dinner, and smokers that have been 
held. There is every outlook for 
(Continued on Page Three.)
As a fitting close to their four ot 
more years at Carnegie, the gradu
ating class has arranged for tho 
usual Senior Week celebration and 
an extensive program has been ar
ranged for tiie week beginning Sun
day, June 10.
A series of tea dances are now boing held for tlio Seniors with the 
purpose of placing the graduates of 
tho several schools on more intimate 
terms and insuring tho acquaintance 
of all at tlio social events of tho 
week.
Tho week will bo Inaugurated June 
10 by a reception by Dr. Baker in 
tho afternoon, and the baccalaureate 
sormon in tliei ovonlng. From this 
tlmo until tho following; Friday the 
Seniors will havo few idlo moments.
A baseball game between] the girl 
Seniors and men Sonlors will L'oaturo 
tho program for Monday morning. 
Following a class mooting, tlio class 
will .attend tlio gamo at Forbos Field 
botweoiii tho Pirates ami tho Giants. 
In tho ovonlng a garden party will 
bo given by Dean Brown Cor tho 
girls.
Tuesday will find the Seniors 
tliolr annual voyage and picnic and 
tlio entire da/yl will bo dovoted to this 
affair.
On Wednesday tho men will luiVc 
tliolr swimming party In tho morn
ing and banquot In, tho evening. The 
girls will have, tliolr lunch parly and 
theater party at flm Davis, and botfll 
sections will attend a. toa dance In 
tho Union.
Thursday calls for a. lighter sdliod(Continued on Page Two.)
CLASSES END 10:;
Student Y" Conference at 
Silver Lake, June 14-22
the beginning of tho present school 
year have oijly recently made tho se
lection of thl! particular department 
in which they- wish to major during 
the remaining fc.iree years of their col
lege career.
An unusual fejiture this year is the 
large number of xijdn who have chosen 
the courses in Pikre and Applied Sci
ence. The list Iollows: Chemical
Eng., 14; Metallurgical Eng., 9; Min
ing Eng., 6; Civil lEng., 34; Electrical 
Eng., 42; Mechanical Eng., 30; ComThe Student Conference at Silver 
Bay, New York, the annual intercolle;iate gathering sponsored by the Y. 
M. C. A., will be held this year imme
diately after the close of school for a 
period of eight days, beginning June 
14 and ending June 22.
The Silver Bay conference has been 
a Y institution for the past 3(5 years 
and its purpose is the discussion of 
problems of vital interest to college 
students. Representatives are in at
tendance from all the eastern colleges 
and professional schools, 80 institu
tions being represented last year. The 
delegations ore made up of foreign as 
well as American students in order 
to create a world interest. An effort 
is also being made to secure the at
tendance of faculty members and spe
cial meetings have been arranged for 
them.
in 1922, Carnegie had a representatlon of 1.0 delegates and this year 
there will bo at least that number. 
Those who havo already signified 
their Intention of going are: T. N.
Griggs, George Allison, Frazer, Gill, 
H. II. Wilson, Ohio Newman, DykoHorno, Prof, Dibble, and
(Continued. Page Three.)
Mr. Davis. Others who aro Interested 
aro welcome to attend and may se
cure Information at the Y office.
The dally program includes study 
In the morning and recreation in the 
afternoon. The formation of small 
study groups Is planned as well as 
large forums for the discussion of 
national and international problems 
under the leadership of the most com
petent men who can be secured.
Facilities for boating, swimming, 
hiking, tennis and baseball guarantee 
ideal recreation for all jvho attend.
DRAMA NIGHT 8TUDENT8
TO PRESENT PLAY TONIGHT
Tho Dopartment of Drama Night 
Students will present Tho Younger 
Generation which is a oomody In 
l.hroo acts, by Stanley Sloughton, 
Tuesday and Wodlnosdny, May 22 and 
21!, at 8:15 p. m., In Llttlo Theater, 
Tickets may bo socurod at tho Di
rector's Office.
SCALP AND BLADE HOLD 
THEIR ANNUAL BANQUE!
Thel Scalp and) Blade fraternity 
composed of Buffalo fellows held tliolr 
annual dinner last Thursday; evening 
at the Bird Cago Inn.
This was the occasion for the pre
sentation of the fntorfraternlly 
basket ball trophy which Is given to 
the winner of th.ei Interfraternity 
Basket Ball League by Scalp and 
Blade. This year Sigma Nu won the 
trophy.
Tlio other business brought up be
fore the organization, was the election 
of officers for next year. The follow
ing men were - elected: Joe Davis,
president; N. Weser, vice president; 
F. W. Cook, secretary; D. Schoeiice, 
treasurer; Ray Keller, initiary mast
er.
AT LAST! CAMPUS WEEK 
HERE!
After waiting many days for ti 
greatest of all great Carnegie Te< 
celebrations, it lias arrived. Th 
evening the first gun will be firedunofficiallywhen the numerous fi 
ternities throw open their doors wi 
their Migratory Dances. Tomom 
morning, at 10:80 a. m., tho first gu 
officially, will bo fired when the e 
tire student body and visitors, pit 
the alumni, gather in the Carnegi 
Music Hall for Obie Newmans th 
great and grand vaudeville show.
From then on until tho final sho' 
at somewhere in the neighborhood c 
midnight, Saturday, more will be  
ing on than fleas can bo counted 
the celebrated mongrel's razor-bla 
back. Yea, Bo! There wlll.be x 
time for such a person as a ono-loggei 
man, or a hook-wovm infested gentle
man. for it will take a man, both Cully 
supplied with tho motive power oC two 
logs, and tho Inclination to malco full 
use of their groat value, to got around 
to all of tho events scheduled to talco 
placo, and at the samo tlmo get in 
that necessary amount of sloop, and 
food, along with tho oxorolso.
Again, there will be no uso for 
books. Thoy might as well bo placed 
In tho garbage can, hut again on sec
ond thought, you had hotter placo 
thorn on a nlco secure and safo place, 
for after thoso liootlc days aro ovor, 
(.hero will bo a groat need Cor them. 
Wo hate to mention dlsagrooahlo sub
jects, but, playing safo with our dour 
faculty, wo will taUo tho liberty of 
mentioning that only two weeks after 
tho closing of Rabbit Foot, Saturday 
night, tho opening gun oC examina
tions will bo fired for ovoryono oC us.
But two weeks Is two weeks, so 
why worry about the Ciituro when It 
is so Car a|i .two woeks awuy, and, 
Instead, lot us dwell upon tho good 
times oC tho presont, which Is now. 
0o, taking that point ol! vlow, lot us 
(Continued on lago Throe.)
Music Box Revue to 
Be Given This Friday
Musical Clubs and Soloists to 
Perform For Alumni
'n
L. P. BLUM SPEAKS TO 
SCIENCE CIVIL SOCIETY
The Pennsylvania Surveyor was the 
subject of an interesting paper deliv
ered by Mr. L. P. Blum before the 
student chapter of A. S. C. E. last 
week. Mr. Blum Is a member of the 
firm of Blum, Weld In and Co., Civil 
and Mining Engineers. He is also a 
member of the American Society of 
Civil Engineers.
The secret of engineering is to 
know \vdien to be accurate. Accur
acy is a vital factor in engineering 
but there are times when too groat a, 
degree of accuracy Is not only unnec
essary but tho cost would be prohib
itive. On rough survey work Mr. Blum 
said that It was his practice to keep 
within tho limits of one part In three 
thousand.
Tho necessity of having the title 
traced back to tho original grant was 
also stressed. A brief sketch of the 
history of Pennsylvania lands from 
the time Wm, Penn received the' orig
inal grant was interestingly told.
Mr. Blums first englneer/ng expe
rience was with the City of Philadel
phia. For the past twenty-five years 
he has been Identified w^h surveying 
and engineering work/in the Pitts
burgh district. Amojfg other activi
ties his firm acts as consulting engi
neers for the County Controller.
A
Havo you hoard about the Music 
Box Rovuo to bo held at: tho Music 
Hall next Friday afternoon? II! not, 
heros tho dope. Tho plans are to 
show to tho Alumni tho ability ol! tho 
combined Musical Clubs and that of 
Individual students by a pleasing and 
an Interesting program The first half 
ol! the program will ho given by the 
Mons Gleo Club, tho Mandolin Club, 
tho Girls Gloo Club, and the String
ers, While tho last half will bo prosonted by tho soloists.
The versatile Jack Willard has been 
requested by many of the Alumni to 
give some of Ills clever character 
sketches. Bernico Reut/., tho "Fanny 
Brice of Carnegie Tech, will sing 
popular numbers. S. B. Mur
phy, Jr., the chap who 
made Mat. Fryes Always Mine1' 
famous on tho Musical Club trips will 
be there. Julia Bartletto, the first 
Tech girl to make a name in opera, 
will sing. She sang the title role in 
Victor Herberts Eileen at the Al
vin Theater last week.
The program will end by all sing
ing "Dear Old Tech.
Publication Increases Cir
culation During Semester
That The Carnegie Tartan is grow
ing bigger and better, may be de
duced from a report made by the cir
culation; manager. Since the begin
ning of the fall term, the mailing 
list has Increased by more than five 
hundred. Ol the lorty-slx hundred 
printed weeky. practically half of this 
number Is distributed through the 
mail service. Approximately 'one 
liuhdred ol! these travel to remote 
parts of the globe. The 'remaining 
copies are placed In the four colleges 
and In. offices of tho administration^ 
building. During tho football season 
additional copies are sent to alumni, 
who are not subscribers. The rooont 
olght-pnpo issue eclipsed all previous 
records made by this publication.
COMMONS NOT OPEN DURING 
CAMPUS WEEK CELEBRATIOr
The Carnegie Commons will r 
opened during Campus Week. I 
finally decided this way after ta 
into consideration) the number of 
pie who would have to be served.
Those who wish to eat on . 
campus will be accommodated ad 
Margaret Morrison Cafeteria on ^ 
top floor of the M. M. C. Building.
The Skibo, the Hoot Mon and 
Dauths will probably remain open 
also.

---------------------------------------------------

lGE twolGE twoNEGIE lwolwNWEDNESDwY, MwY 23, 1923
lblished every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
iology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
jntered in the Postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
TOR H. STROMQUIST ...................................................................... Editor-in-Chief
TelephoneSchenley 09S4-J
D. SONNEMANN ..............................................................................Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
TFE A. BRAND...................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
3NNETH ARNOLD............................................................. Associate Editor
. F. SIMPSON............................................................................................ Associate Editor
F. DIETER..................................................................................................Associate Editor
ARK S. DOWNES.................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHazel 939S
'.ED C. SMITH......................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneHiland S11S-J
JE3D T. PHELPS................................................................................ ..............News Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
H. WILSON ................................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 9356
P. HAY ....................... ................................................................................... Photographer
" KELLER.........:.................................................................................Exchange Editor
P. COUSE, JR............................................................................................................Art Editor
S. REPPLIER............................................................................................ Special Writer
. B. CUNNINGHAM .................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
C. MAJOR.............. ...................................................................... Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Eleanor Martin, P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, 
, D. Richards, A. F. Andrews, B. DeMare, E. G. Eigle, A. E. Krogh, I. H. 
.aacs, R. G. Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Rossback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
T. J. Dempsey, J. B. Laudig, D. Moskovitz, J. W. Netro, P. W. Reilly, H. 
Slbson, P. Edie, R. L. Sandrock, B. Broudy, H. Urschel, D. Ray, E. L. Reeves, 
V. Grodner.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
jianaging Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
[Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items mut be in the student 
postoffice before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. 
 11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Office hoursTuesday,
CAMPUS WEEK GREETING
It is a great pleasure to welcome the alumni and former stu
dents back to their Alma Mater for Campus Week. The student 
Committee has "worked hard to make this years Campus Week a 
/great success, and I sincerely hope their efforts will be recognized by 
1 a large number of men and women who have studied here in former 
years. May I also express the hope that those who do return will 
j give me the pleasure of calling at my office? I should like to meet 
as many of the Alumni as possible. Our Campus Week should show. 
| the undergraduate spirit at its best, and I believe that great enthu1 siasm will mark this years celebration. It is a time when we can be 
I free to relaxstudents, Alumni and faculty, and it is my hope that 
' this time of festivity shall afford an opportunity for us all to get 
better acquainted. If it does it will accomplish an important service.
With my best wishes to the men and women who organized the 
) Campus Week exercises, and my heartiest welcome to the Alumni, 
Very sincerely yours,
THOMAS S. BAKER.
When youre tired oC life and your 
luck has been bad,
And the worries of business are driv
ing you mad.
Get away from the city with its rushes 
and roars
And spend a short month in the great 
out-of-doors.
Take the train to Moutana, Wyoming 
or Maine
And rough it in sunshine, in snow and 
in rain,
Forget about business, its toils and its 
chores,
In the vastness and silence of the 
great out-of-doors.
There will be hunting and fishing and 
tramping around 
And sleeping in blankets wrapped up 
on the ground,
On sweet scentea needles, on carpeted 
floors,
Neath the whispering pines of the 
great out-of-doors.
!
The short thirty days have come and 
have gone 
You sit down to your desk with a 
comfortable yawn,
But your duties and your pleasures 
have ceased to be bores,
Since the glorious month in the great 
out-of-doors.
Herbert McBride.
Just think, Plebes, today is your 
last one under regulations. Isnt it 
too sad for words? No more inspec
tions, no more hats, no more work 
to do for Sophomore taskmasters 
isnt it pathetic to think of losing all 
these things? Tomorrow you will 
probably all be wearing straw hats, 
red ties and green socks. More power 
to you, you have had your share of 
regulation so now you may enjoy your 
life, liberty and the pursuit of happi
ness.
PUBLICITYWHERE?
Builders Exchange 
Gives Scholarships
Six Industries Men Receive 
Much Coveted Awards
WHAT DO WE SEEK?
Get Your C. W. Tag Today 
Youll Regret If You Delay
Industries Assembly, last Wednes
day, held in Room 104, Industries, 
was one of the best, attended and 
most interesting assemblies held this 
year.
Dr. Baker, Director Morris and a 
committee composed of members of 
the Pittsburgh Builders Exchange, 
including the president of that body, 
Mr. Charles Wilson, entered imme
diately after th reading of the minuteo and the meeting was turned over 
to them. President Wilson on be
half of the Builders Exchange pre
sented the following men with schol
arships to reward them for earnest 
endeavor and interest in their 
courses: A. W. Hedgreen and W.
H. Douglas, each received ?100; C. 
J. Kuhn, W. H. Justice, J. P. An
drews and Joe Davis each received 
$25. Mr. C. C. Connely, former direc
tor of the College -of Industries, 
then spoke briefly on the good work 
the Builders' Exchange was doing. Dr. 
Baker thanked! the Builders Exchange 
for the interest shown in our school 
and invited them to come again.
The final moments of the assem
bly were taken up by the various 
committee reports and the installation 
of the following newly elected offi
cers: F. M. Gore, president; A1
Scliillinger, vice president; M. D. 
Kallfolz, treasurer; Joe Christoff, sec
retary.
Midwest Club Will Lunch 
At Schenley Hotel May 24
Day by day, in every way, Caa-negie Teeli athletic publicit' is 
failing to appear. For prooi! of this one only has to loolr the 
Pittsburgh dailies of the past three weeks. A careful Krtisal and 
diligent search will disclose the fact that publicity is a minus quan
tity, except perhaps on Sundays.
Publicity is a great thing. No one has ever been so bold as to 
deny it, and it is safe to say no one ever will. Such a statement has 
no room for argumentits authenticity is self-evident.
Yet, the facts are there. Just as the old gray mare aint what 
she used to be; publicity for Tartan athletics aint what she used to 
be. More, its not what it should be.
There are some who say they have nothing to publish. Far be it 
from the Carnegie Tartan to call anybody a liar, but we beg to differ. 
True, baseball is not listed among the spring sports this year, hut 
there never was, and never will be, for that matter, a time when 
baseball was everything. Baseball can oeeupy its place in the lime
light of a colleges spring sport card, but when all is considered, that 
place is only a part of the whole. Tennis and track always have 
been a part of this wholemaybe not as important as baseball, but 
just the same, of sufficient importance to warrant publicity, especi
ally when these teams at Cavn'egie have always taken the aspect of 
championship caliber.
But the point is this: Publicity is publicity, and as such, it 
should always exist.
Alumni are' not a curious sort of peoples when they desire to sec 
printed in the daily papers something about the doings of their Alma 
Mater along the various lines of sport, nor can they be blamed for 
being inquisitive to the extent of sending in letters demanding in
formation. Furthermore, they cannot be blamed in the least hit for 
getting peeved when after daily searching the Pittsburgh papers for 
news, they just as often fail to find any.
And so, the cry goes up: "WE WANT PUBLICITY.
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, MAY 23
AssembUesCollege of Industries.;.............................................................:.............12:30, Eoom 104
College of Engineering............................11:30, Room 209
THURSDAY, MAY 24
. Campus Week Celebrations........:........................No Classes after 10:30
Mid-West LuncheonHotel Schenley............................r.v..,12:00 Noon
FRIDAY, MAY 25
Campus Week Celebrations.....................................................No Classes
SATURDAY, MAY 26 
Final Day of Campus Week.
TUESDAY, MAY 29
Scholarship Dance (tentative)................................
WEDNESDAY, MAY 30
Memorial Day ...
-Carnegie Union
No Classes
THURSDAY, MAY 31
PlayThe Two Mrs. Loring, by Colonel Church......................
___________________________________________8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY,JUNE 1
PlayThe Two Mrs. Loring.................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, JUNE 2 
PlayThe Two Mrs. Loring................................8:15, Arts Theater
W. H. Ryan Elected Pres
ident of Science Senate
At the election last week for Scienco Senate, W. H. Ryan was elected 
president for next year. The other 
officers are as follows: Don Gard
ner vice president; Milo Matter, 
treasurer; C. West, secretary.
\ The programs for the asemblies 
\>year will be entirely reorganized, 
^isiasrn and interest will be 
^ed by having class stunts, coms, etc. It is hoped that next year 
ire will b better attendance and 
at the old-time pep will be present 
j every assembly.
I wish I was a fountain pen 
Tied round my daddys neck, 
Then any time I wanted cash 
Id write myself a check.
Florida Alligator.
PEGHARMON IS CHOSEN 
QUEEN OF CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From Page One) 
Society, and is a charter member of 
the Beetle, one of the three girls 
honorary sororities.
Peg Harmon is well known to the 
students because of the parts she 
took in such successful productions 
as Ship Ahoy and Bennys Place, the 
show of last Campus Week.
The formal crowning of the Queen 
will take place in the open air thea
ter. on Thursday evening, just before 
the Coronation dance. The scheme of 
Corpvation will be that of a Chinese 
Empress, and will be an exact re
plica of ^is event so far as is possi
ble under the circumstances.
Movies of the Coronation will be 
taken and will be broadcasted all 
over the country. Miss Hannon will 
surely be a wonderful Queen and her 
picture can not help but reflect credit 
upon our school. 
All hail our Queen.
The tag sale has been very success
ful thus far but there are still a 
goodly number of students who have 
not purchased their tag. These tags 
arei certainly a bargain at seventyfive cents for they will admit you to 
all the events of Campus Week with
out further cost, except the Corona
tion Dance and the Show. It is very 
essential that every student should 
have'a tag for by these tags, students 
aud outsiders may be distinguished.
Tags will continue to be sold until 
tomorrow noon but after that time 
there will positively be no more tags 
sold. It is a lot better to pay seven
ty-five cents now than to pay three 
dollars for the Coronation Dance and 
five dollars for the Mardi Gras. The 
extra expense is not the only reason 
you should bug a tag, Campus Week 
should be a. one-hundred per cenit 
Carnegie Tech affair and by buying a 
tag and wearing it you show that you 
aire a supporter of Campus Week.
It is the dream of the Tag Com
mittee to have every student wearing 
a tag Thursday afternoon, so lots 
get one and wear it. If you havent 
the money) borrow it, find it, or get 
it some way and then buy a tag.
FULL HOUSE WILL
SEE RABBIT-FEET
(Continued From Page One.) 
ham is getting noticeably thinnor ns 
a result of his untiring efforts to mako 
the show a success from the business 
end. He haB worn a path betwoon the 
campus and the downtown offices of 
the owners of the Schenley Theater. 
Col. Fairly lias built a new path on the 
campus for the express purpose of 
making it possible for Web to got 
from Forbes street to the offices of 
Manager Willard, to report details, 
without losing any time.
Jack Willard, with nothing to do but 
ruri the play, work in the vaudeville, 
do odd jobs like Taming of the1 
Shrew, and create a new part in his 
next show, is not a bit worried about 
the outcome of the playhe has no 
time to worry, so he has employed an 
official worrier! Obie Newman is 
also doing double duty. He is attend
ing the rehearsal of the vaudeville 
with a script of Rabbit-Feet in one 
hand and a vaudeville program in the 
other. Naturally Peg Harmon, with 
all her demands from the motion pic
ture companies for their pictures of 
the Campus Week Queen candidates, 
is having great fun posing for pictures 
in between speeches during the re
hearsal. It is a common sight to see 
a form fly past one while standing 
in the Arts Building, for Peg moves 
in a hurry.
For the benefit of those who will 
not be able to attend the production, 
a summary of the event will be pub
lished in the next Tartan, but the 
story of a play is merely a small part 
of it so we hope YOU ARE SUPER
STITIOUS!!!
CARNEGIE ARCHITECTS
WIN EUROPEAN HONORS
(Continued From Page One) 
uate of Carnegie Tech, winning his 
degree of. A. B. in Architecture in 
1921. He is a native of Lima, Ohio.
Mr. Lashmit who came from Wins
ton-Salem, N. C., was awarded his B. 
A. degree In 1921, and his degree of 
Master of Arts in 1922. In the past 
year he has been an assistant instruc
tor in Architecture Design at Car
negie Tech.
The placing of two Carnegie men 
in the Romo prize contest Is the third 
notable achievement of the local 
school during the past year. Several 
months ago, Otto M. Olsen, a grad
uate of 1922, won the Stewardson 
Traveling (Scholarship which is open 
to Pennsylvanians. Mr. Simpson's 
winning of the LeBrun Scholarship 
was the second important honor won 
during the year. Emil W. Klee, 
graduating student, and Robert W. 
Schmertz, a graduate in 1921, also won 
honors for Carnegie Tech, by win
ning places, as the two alternates to 
enter the Paris Prize competition 
jhich is nowj being judged.
The Midwest Club will hold 
luncheon at the Hotel Schenley on 
Thursday, May 2*1, at 12 oclock, 
noon. This will be immediately fol
lowing the vaudeville show in Carne
gie Music Hall and will afford to stu
dents and alumni from the West and 
(Midwest an opportunity to meet with 
other Carnegie men and women from 
the Home State ati the very beginning 
of the festivities of the week.
The near proximity of the Hotel 
Schenley is an addodl inducement, be
cause other eating places will un
doubtedly! be overcrowded.. The Mid
west Club now inchides men and 
women students from the Midwest 
and is no longer strictly confined to 
members from the six Middlewostern 
States. Any alumni, alumnus, or 
student, who hails from west of Ohio 
is Invited) to come, and1 will be made 
welcome. The price will bo $.75 por 
plate, and the meeting will be over 
in good time for the other festivi
ties of the day.
PUPPET TAKES FOURTH 
PLACE IN WITS CONTEST
The winner of the College Wits 
Contest, as announced by Judge, Is 
Stanford University of California. The 
Iar-westerners captured the prize with 
a total score of 975 points, or 802 
points mor than their nearest compet
itor, Columbia University. Cornell, a 
persistent contender for the cup, 
came in third place with a total of 
613 points. Carnegie tied with Penn 
State for fourth honors.
Although this is a distinct advanco 
over last yirnrs showing, when Pup
pet took sixth place, it is to bo la
mented that Carnegie Tech did not 
fight harder for possession of the cup. 
More and more colleges onter the 
contest each year, as shown by tlio 
more than eighty listed In this years 
contest. It would be a worthy prize 
to bring to Carnegie. Possibly, with 
more support from the student body, 
this may be accomplished next year.
Our college system before long is 
likely to see revision. It is clear that 
tens of thousands of mediocre young 
people ought not to be kept in insti
tutions up to twenty-two years of age 
merely to go to football games, join 
clubs, and indulge in the over-rated 
past-time of making acquaintances. 
They are often less fit for productive 
life at twenty-two than they were at 
eighteen. They ought not bo carried 
aloug so far unless they seek some
thing worth having.
The above article, appearing recent
ly in a prominent magazine presents 
a problem. Our interest, as students, 
lies only in the last sentence. What 
do we seek? An education of course. 
No graduate has ever regretted going 
to college, but how often have wo 
heard him say, "If I had it to do over 
again I should do differently. All of 
which behooves us to take a personal 
inventory and discover, what we are 
seeking.
The undergraduate places altogether 
too high a value on ingenuousness and 
resourcefulness. He puts off the evil 
day by saying, "There is plenty of 
time. Ill mauage somehow or other 
when the time conies for action. 1-Ie 
is proud of his ability to meet emer
gencies; hence he does not plan and 
take precautions that emergencies 
may not arise. It Js easy to drift 
through college, taking traditional, 
conventional studies that others take, 
following the lines of least resistance, 
electing snap courses.
.Lack of definite purpose is one of 
tlio most pernicious habits of human 
beings. It is hard mental work to 
plan, to consider, to studv, to analyze, 
in short to think. It is easier to await 
the knock of opportunity than to 
study her ways and tlion go out and 
capture her. She treads paths which 
may be known; she has a schedule 
which may be learned; she may thus 
be met as certainty as by appoint
ment. Those who await her knock at 
the door may be far from where she 
passes.
Nowadays, an education is a fraud 
with few sacrifices on the part of the 
student; many are in collogo merely 
upon the insistence of tliolr parents 
and the Inducement of their friends. 
Since we are hero, all of us should 
realize our sublime opportunity. Wo 
must arouse ourselves to tlio vital im
portance of ideals, of a clear, definite 
purpose based accurate knowledge and 
sound judgmentcommon Bonse. We 
neod to acquire the habit of search
ing out what is tlio burden of tlio 
worlds wisdom and opinion In prefer
ence to the main Issues of life. Wo 
need to develop the habit of question
ing and examining accepted beliefs, 
whether of common knowlodgo, or in 
science, business, morals, or other 
fields. The student should work for 
hlmsolf teniativo standards ol eco
nomic, moral, and spiritual values; ho 
should learn to heed the uso of time 
and resources; to ddflno his attitude 
toward Industry and social life, toward 
tlio llvo issues of the day, and toward 
life Itself. When wo have matricu
lated In the great school of exporl* 
ence wo shall find that tlio only differ
ence between genius and dunce, mil
lionaire and tramp, Is a wllllngnoss 
to pay the price. Tlio fault, doar 
Brutus, says Cassius, "is not In our 
stars, but In oursolvos that wo are 
undorllngs.
Dainties Only to Be Sold 
At Mardi Gras Concessions
Only candy, soft drinks, confer 
tions and similar articles will be sold 
at the Campus Week Mardi Gras is 
the edict of the committee in charge 
of the Mardi Gras Concessions. The 
concessions will be operated by stu
dents, a fee of ten dollars being 
charged each concessionaire.
The committee in charge wants it 
clearly understood that the fee is not 
for revenue purposes. The ten dol
lars will be used for the construction 
of a booth to house the concession. It 
is thought necessary to do this in or
der to insure the construction of 
booths that would each be like the 
others and to make certain that they 
will be attractive. The concessions 
have all been granted and the booths 
have been constructed in preparation 
for the Mardi Gras.
COMMENCEMENT BALL
TO BE HELD ON JUNE 15
STAFF OF THE CARNEGIE 
TARTAN TO BANQUE!
Campus Week in a Nutshell
WEDNESDAY
9:00 P.M.Inter-Fraternity Migrating- Dances.
THURSDAY
10:30 A.M.Vaudeville Show.Carnegie Music Hall
1:30 P.M.Qualification and the Call!..............Ca.rn.egio Bowl
2:30 P.M.Ivaper oil the Kilties.........................Carnegie Bowl
o :00 P.M.Girls Track Meet..............................Carnegie Bowl
8:30 P.M.AUmm.i-Varsity Tennis Match.....Carnegie Courts
7:30 P.M.1Coronation of the Queen of Carnegie.......
................................................Open Air Theater
8:30 P.M.Crowning of King Tut of the Mardi Gras
...........................................Design School Lawn
9:00 P.M.Coronation Dance.........Laboratory, Union, Foyer
FRIDAY
9:00A.M.Girls Sweepstakes...............Woodlawn Spcodway
10:00 A.M.Inter-Fraternity Sweepstakes .........................
.................................Carnegie Tech Speedway
1:30P.M.Girls Championship Tennis Matches...............
................................j............... Carnegie Courts
2:30 P.M.Music Box Revue.....................Carnegie Music Hall
5:30 P.M.Girls Banquet...............................Carnegie Commons
9:00 P.M.Mardi Gras................w Laboratory, Union, Foyer
SATURDAY
10:00 A.M.Allegheny-Varsity Tennis Matches...................
......................................+......... Carnegie Courts
12:00M. Alumni Luncheon............................Fort Pitt Hotel
' 2:00 P.M.Garden Party and Bridge..........Mellon Hall Lawn
3:00 P.M.ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
3:30 P.M.Greek Olympic....................................Carnegie Bowl
8:30 P.M.ARE YOU SUPERSTITIOUS?
ADI OS
0. Armstrong Speaks 
At Science Assembly
The chief speaker or the Science 
Assembly last Wednesday was Mr. 
L. O. Armstrong. The topic of his 
lecture was the "Industrial Water 
Power of Canada. In connection 
with Ills talk lie showed several reels 
of lpovies, which were taken during 
Ills travels in. Northern Canada.
This is the second time that Mr. 
Armstrong has lectured boforo the 
Scionco Assembly this year, and this 
one proved just as interesting as the 
previous one. Mr. Armstrong is in 
the .employment of the Government 
and is given a motion picture mar 
chine to record his travels and the 
condition of the country which ho ex
plores In connection with wator pow
er for Industries and also naviga
tional purposes.
The movies were, taken In Ontario 
and parts ol! Wostorn Canada. They 
roprosentod some of tho\ prettiest 
mountain sconory in all Canada. The 
scono of apoclal interest was taken 
in a lumber camp In Northern Onta
rio. It showed the various operations 
In obtaining tlio logs which are later 
floated down tho streams to tho saw
mills In Southern Ontario.
Tlio next, thing on tlio program was 
tho announcement that int llyan 
was oloctod president of tho Scionco 
Assombly for next yioar.
Mr. Miller, ono of the Instructors 
In tho Chemistry Department, was 
p'seisontodi with a plpo for his serv
ices throughout tho yoar In oporat 
Ing tho motlonj picture machine dur
ing Scionco nanemblloB
Commencement Parade to 
Be Headed by R. 0. T. C,
An added feature of this yoars 
commoncomont day program on Juno 
15 will bo tho presence of tho R. O. 
T. C. In the procession to tho Li
brary procodlng tho graduating oxorclsos.
Tho Military Department has conTHISTLE DEBTOR'S NAMES
WILL APPEAR IN TARTAN
There are still a few organizations 
on the campus who have not yet paid 
for their Thistle pictures and write
ups appearing therein. Tho board 
needs tills money at once to pay tho 
printer. The names of those organi
zations who do hot get paid up this 
week, will be published In next weeks 
Tartan.
The Wobbly Onesee mo f-fall?
Off leerY es.
Tho Wobbly Onoslieon mo before? 
OfficerNo.
-Offlsher, did you
-Had you over shCAMPUS WEEK 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
Photographs will bo taken of all 
CnmpUc Week events and may be 
purchased at noon In the Commons 
and at tho Mnrdl Gras.
HAY & SLEATH
The memnors of tlio staff of Tlio 
Carnegie Tartan will hold their 
nual banquet this evening at tho Uni
versity Club.
At tills banquet tho nnnouncomont 
by next years staff will be glvonlsontod to load tho parade to tho Muout.
F. I. Go-ston, the second editor of 
The Carnegie Tartan, will be tlio 
toastmaster. The other speakers will 
be President T. S. Baker, It. S. Clark, 
head of the Press Bureau, T. W. Mor
ris, Associate Press Correspondent, 
and C. L. Smith, Sporting Editor of 
the Gazette-Times.
It can readily be seen that all 
those present and that will be every
one, will thoroughly enjoy anything 
that these men may say.
Say, is that the moon rising over 
there?
"Im sure I dont know. Im a 
stranger hefe myself.
Bear Cat.
Students not equipped with a leath
er brief case, a good fountain pen, 
Eversharp Pencil, bill fold, and at 
least one piece of Tech jewelry 
should visit the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
sic Hall and sovonty-olght students 
havo ulroady volunteered to take part 
In tho ceremonies. Dignity and for
mality befitting such an occasion will 
be secured by the presence of a mil
itary escort, ana the department and 
especially those men who have offer
ed tliolr services are to be congratu
lated on the interest they have shown.
SENIORS TOHAVE 
BUSY FINAL WEEK
TRAVEL MADE EASY
Courteous olorkn who 
know ovory Inno of trnvol 
tho world over aro at 
your disposal at our 
Steamship Deaprtmont.
Soloot your destination 
and wo will do everything 
In our power to help you 
roach It In comfort and 
safety.
Mellon National Bank
Oliver Jlue.& Smilhfield
JL
LINES FROM
FwMOUS LIBEowLS
Llfo In real, llfo Is earnest 
And tho grave Is not Is goal; 
Dust thou uro, to dust rolurnost, 
Was not spoken of tho soul.
I-Ionry W. Longfollow.
First Unitarian thurch
Morowood and Ellsworth Avos. 
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor.
(Continued from Page One) 
ule, consisting of the girls swimming 
party and. open house at the girls' 
dorms, so that the class will be rest
ed for the) commencement exercises 
on Friday. A reception will follow 
the commencement in the Music 1-Iall 
and the final event of the week, the 
Commencement Ball, will be held in 
the evening.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN, 
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School .........9:45 A.M.
College Men's Bible
Class ............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ..................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOMEl TECH STUDENTS
(Continued from Page One) 
anyway you can see what calibre of 
music the committee is working for.
Nov/ we will make light the heavy 
part. Its only going to cost you one 
buck and ono half of another Iron man 
to attend this grand finale of tho so
cial season. If wo charged throe 
times that much wo couldnt give you 
a better time. You) make up tho 
who and we will furbish the "what. 
The little cardboards will be put on 
sale Monday, May 28. Get thorn in In
dustries from Olio .tones, *in Arts 
from "Doc Tayior and in Science 
from Sam Bittner. Ell/s Robertson Is 
chairman of the coinr/iittee, AI Reid 
is handling the postei/j, and Bill Buck
ley is taking care of j the music. There 
are three Sophomoras on the commit
tee to help with tyie tickets and get 
a line on the job for next year.
Breathes there (man with soul so 
dead.
Who never to hjimself has said: 
Lessonsde damned,
I'm going to bed.McGill Dally.
Whatever your "Choice of a Career, college training has increased 
your economic value, and 'whatever business or profession you enter, 
adequate life insurance is a proper self-appraisal of your powers in that 
direction.
The traditions, practices, and financial strength of the yoHN HANCOCK 
Mutual Life Insurance Company arc such that the college man can take 
peculiar pride in having a John Hancock policy on his life. It is a dis
tinct asset from the start. It will pay you to buy it; and later on, should 
you think of joining this company, it will also pay you to sell it. Our 
representatives 'will tell you just how, and can assist you in selecting both 
your career and your insurance.
cAddress a/lgency Department
Sixty-one Years in Business
Largest Fiduciary Institution 
in New England
lGEt wosuraoctCompaoyv
IS UIDYICE HNDDNRLMDPYYD

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDwY, MwY 23, 1923lGE twoNEGIE lwolwoPwGE lGoEE
CARNEGIE TECH TRACK TEAM 
SWAMPS MARIETTA COLLEGE
Robertson Makes New School 
Record in 120 Yard Hurdles, 
Szold Establishes School 
Record For 440 Yd. Dash
SKIBOS WIN 13 FIRSTS
Carnegie Techs crack track team 
defeated Marietta College last Satur
day in a very one-sided meet. The 
score was 109% to 19%. Jimmy Rob
ertson lowered the school record ior 
the 120 high hurdles by three-fifths of 
a second. His time was 15 2-5 sec
onds. Dummy iSfcold also broke the 
440-yard record by making it in 50 1-5 
seconds.
The Skibos won first places in 13 of 
the 14 events of the meet. They also 
got second place in ten events. Harris 
of Marietta won the only first place 
for his school by throwing the jave
lin 135 feet 4 inches. Christoff did 
the 100 yards for Carnegie in 10 1-5. 
Ferral won the 880, his time being 2 
min. 1 sec.
Schillinger took the discus throw, 
hurling it 123 feet. Ferral won the 
mile-run making it in 4 minutes 48 1-5 
seconds. Sprinkle hurled the shot 35 
feet 8 inches and Luty got up to 5 
feet 8 inches in the high jump.
The pole vault was won by Smith 
at 9 feet 6 inches. In the broad jump 
Bohn kicked the dirt up for 21 feet 
and 2 inches. The 220 low hurdles 
were made in 26 2-5 seconds by Gare. 
The 220 dash was won by Christoff in 
22 2-5 seconds. Dykeman won the 
two-mile run. His time was 10 min
utes and 15 seconds.
At the time that this article went 
to print a detailed summary was not 
available.
ALUMNI NETMEN 
TO MEET VARSITY
Varsity Plays Allegheny Sat.; 
Start Eastern Trip Next 
Wednesday
For the last three years during 
Camous Week, the Alumni tennis 
team, managed by Eddie Hirsch, has 
vainly attempted to hand the short 
end of the score to the varsity team 
of each'year.
Tomorrow afternoon at three 
oclock the best possible alumni team, 
which has been in Pittsburgh practic
ing for the past four days, will dare 
to challenge the imposing 1923 netmen to a match. They will not admit 
that they are out of form until-after 
the match, and that is exactly what 
will make the contest as interesting 
as any this year. Out of the seventyfive alumni letter men, the most prob
able candidates for the alumni team 
are: Toots Davis, Jack Beatty, Steve 
Stpckslager, Phil Marshall, Bob 
Schmertz, and Don Gawthrop.
Allegheny College, the only team 
that has repeatedly given the Plaid 
tennis men any real trouble, will send 
her delegation of court artists to 
Pittsburgh for the six match contest 
slated for Saturday morning at 10 
oclock.
Next Wednesday morning the var
sity tennis team will embark for State 
College and after the match with the 
Nittany lads, moves on to New Haven, 
Conn., to face Yale, the power in east
ern collegiate tennis. On their re
turn, Coach Garlands squad will play 
Lehigh at Bethlehem, and wind up 
the seasons schedule of seventeen 
matches.
FRATERNITIES READY
FOR MIGRATORY DANCE
(Continued From Page One.)
Chi Eho will be the only house not 
participating in the dance.
All of the favorite dance orches
tras will be represented in addition 
to several outside combinations. The 
Harrison-Hollins aggregation will pro
vide music for the Beta Sigma Rhos, 
the Beta Theta Pis and the Delta 
Mus. The Collegiate Imps will play 
for the Delta Xis, Sigma Epsilon 
Phis and D. U.s. The Collegiate Six 
will be at the Woodlawn Club. The 
A. A. E.s will have Art Giles Ever
glades, Theta. Zi, Clarks Greensburg 
Orchestra: Acacia, Swanee Five;
Delta Tau Delts, McMahans; Kappa 
iSdgma Rho, the Greenwich Sex-enaders; Iota Sigma Delts, the Tartans, 
while the Sigma Nus, Pi Kapps and 
Delta Phi Delts have not announced 
their selections.
The Betas will have a truck to be 
used as a tranport for the wandering 
dancers and a few of the other houses 
will have similar arrangements. The 
Sigma Nus and S. A. E.s have fixed 
up an elaborate lighting system to 
facilitate migration between these 
two houses.
Dancing will last from nine to 
two, and refreshments will be served 
at intervals during the night at the 
various houses.
May Still Form Golf Team 
If Students Act Quickly
No less than a score of Carnegie 
Tech amateur golfers have been 
strolling over the Schenley Park 
course in anticipation of a golf team 
and a few matches this spring.
Neglecting to turn in scores to the 
Athlctic Office and failing to show 
up at the two meetings last week 
both helped to lose time in organiz
ing the proposed golf team.
During tlie three remaining weeks 
of college, the candidates who turn 
in the lowest scores may have an op
portunity to enter a match, provided 
their scores are good enough. Sev
eral college) teams are anxious to 
play a team from Carnegie Tech.
CAMPUS WEEK TO BE OPENED
WITH DANCE TONIGHT
(Continued From Page One) 
do as they dont do in Soho, and let 
joy be inconfined. We was going to 
say, let it'be unrefined, but after ma
ture thought upon the matter, have 
come to the conclusion that such en
joyment would not be a bit in keep
ing upon such a chivalrous place as 
the Carnegie Tech campus.
Seriously though, as we look back 
over the three celebrations of the past 
we cant help but remember certain 
inefficient methods and thoughtless 
actions upon the part of the students. 
One of these incidents caused quite 
a different story at the end of the 
Inter-Fraternity Sweepstakes than 
would have been the case under bet
ter conditions. We are referring to 
the students crowding the track at 
the finish to such an extent that only 
a path wide enough for one car was 
left in the middle. Result, when two 
cars came towards the tape, neck and 
neck, a smashup occurred, and only 
through luck, none of the spectators 
or rivers were hurt. This is men
tioned so as to make everyone use a 
bit of common sense, and not crowd 
the track at the finish of the race. 
This is only fair to the contestants.
Again, it might be mentioned that 
this celebration is not a student affair 
alone. ,It is, first and foremost, home
coming event for the alumni. There
fore, it is important that we students 
make these oldtimers feel at home, 
and have the time of their life. Make 
them feel this to such an extent that 
they will make plans to return next 
year even before they leave this year. 
Yes. fellows, extendi them the glad 
hand!
S. I. E. ELECTS OFFICERS
AT SMOKER LAST THURSDAY
(Continued From Page One.)
this to shortly become one of the 
most influential and important organi
zations on the campus, was his ex
pression.
This being the last meeting for the 
present year, the following were elect
ed to serve officially for next year:
J. V. Foster, president; Magee, vice 
president; Zinn, secretary; and Mechlem, treasurer.
Attendance at this smoker was par
ticularly large, including nearly all 
members, several however being ab
sent due to participation in band prao 
tice. The society will follow an ex
tensive program beginning with the 
resumption of classes in the fall, and 
urges those who are or will become 
eligible, to join and take part.
ELECTRICAL COURSE
POPULAR WITH PLEBES
(Continued From Page One) 
mercial Eng., 35; Chemical Science, 
5; Physics Science, 11. A small group 
have yet failed to indicate the course 
chosen, but will undoubtedly distrib
ute themselves at the same rate as 
the 186 men specified above.
The increasing number enrolling in 
the Commercial Engineering course is 
an indication of the growing popular
ity of this course. Undoubtedly a 
part of the increase may be traced 
to the conference of men interested 
in Commercial Engineering which was 
held here several months ago for the 
purpose of increasing the opportuni
ties along these lines in the country.
Damon
Do you really think that a 
good pencil helps you to do 
better work?"
Pythias
I know it does! Why, Im 
even able to read my own 
handwriting, now that Ive 
started using a Dixons 
Eldorado!"
VOL.XILN
'l/ie jrmster drawing pencil 
17 leadsall dealers
| Flowers for Every Occasion f
*t* Gift Boxes $
Corsages
*:* Plants *:*
.*? Decorations Ij!
*:* Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the X 
quality and service.
w, W. Smith tompany
} LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET *X Phone Smlthfield 327. 'X
V Delivered anywhere In United States or Canada. y*** V
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
BREAKING THE RECORDS
Victrola records might be included in the athletic category but wo 
werent thinking of that but of the three school records in track and field 
that have gone by the boards the past few \veeks. In the Penn State dual 
a few weeks ago Schillinger tossed the discus a distance of 127 feet S inches 
for the first of the new records. The former record was 119 feet 3 Vis inches 
made by George Ellerton, 19, in the P. A. A. dual in 1919.
Two more records were set up at the Marietta dual last Saturday. 
Jimmie Robertson getting a good start stepped the 120-yard low hurdles in 
15 2-5 seconds. This is 3-5 of a second faster than the mark of 16 seconds 
made by C. M. Crawford, 13, at the Penn State dual in 1912. Dummy Szold, 
hard pressed by two Marietta quarter milers, ran the 440 in 50 1-5 seconds. 
This upset the former record of 50 3-5 seconds made by C. E. Hennamann, 
17, at the Pitt dual in 1916.
The record set by Schillinger is quite an improvement over the old one 
and will no doubt stand for a number of years. The other two records had 
not been broken since before the war and the new ones will offer some choice 
marks for future cinder men to shoot at. We have got to hand it to Coach 
Beeler for developing these men from his scanty list of eligibles. Toppling 
three records during his first year is no mean accomplishment for a coach.
Some of the boys thought these fraternity relay men were going to wear 
flowing Grecian robes on Saturday. Mythical history tells us that the orig
inal Greeks at their Olympic games wore even less than modern track men.
AT LAST
We have discovered some work going on over on the new gym site. It 
is to be hoped that no more red tape will intervene so that at least the sec
tion for basket ball will be completed by the time snow flies. This has been 
predicted but as far as predictions and promises go they arent worth much 
when it comes to the new gym. But the students can at least tell whether 
material progress is being made or not.
We hear that the Alumni tennis team is out for blood tomorrow after
noon when they take the courts against the Varsity. Even Eddie Hirsh 
thinks he might successfully wield a racquet or something else against the 
Varsity manager if it comes to that. Varsity men, beware of your laurels.
There seems to be some trouble in determining what to do with the 
plot of ground that is being improved back of Arts School. It seems to us 
that it would be an ideal spot for a couple of tennis courts.
REQUIREMENTS OF AN ENGINEER 
AS STATED BY DR. RITTMAN
(Continued From Page One) 
ers, but this would mean that the sup
ply of steam turbine designers would 
be so great that all would have diffi
culty in making a living. Recently 
an electrical engineer told me that, 
in his opinion, no man could claim to 
be an engineer who could not repair 
electrical apparatus. This is another 
case of making all engineers accord
ing to one pattern. It is but natural 
to assume that this same electrical 
engineer might be out of place in at
tempting many of the fundamental 
problems of the mechanical, mining, 
commercial, or the chemical engineer. 
Muriatic acid might be a tangible ma
terial to him with but little relation 
to hydrochloric acid; all of which 
would be unpardonable ignorance to 
the chemical engineer.
In checking ujy the practices of somo 
four hundred engineers working on a 
$50,000,000 construction program, I 
found that not a single man was using 
calculus in his part of this tremen
dous job. Why study calculus? Does 
this represent time wasted which 
might better be applied to other 
things? Emphatically no! The en
gineer of industry uses but a very 
small fraction of the fact knowledge 
he acquires in college, which prompt
ly leads me to the question: what are 
the requirements of a successful en
gineer? The answer is: "good train
ing.1' That goodi training can be ac
quired in any of the accepted fields 
of engineering or science. There aro 
volumes of evidence to show that a 
well trained man possessing good 
sense will succeed in the engineering 
profession. Good training does not 
involve fact knowledge alono. It com
prehends such common place things 
as good manners, making the most of 
ones personal appearance, honesty, 
dependability, initiative, and charac
ter. In short, the writer concludes 
that at least tyo-thirds of the require
ments of a successful engineer are 
common to the requirements of a suc
cessful man in any or the other 
learned professions. This conclusion 
is borne out by the conclusion and 
statements of some five hundred suc
cessful practicing . engineers. The 
group interrogated was made up. of 
men sufficiently high in the engineer
ing profession to have been accorded 
places in Whos Who in America. 
Their combined statement was to the 
effect that less than 25 per cent of 
the essentials of a college graduate 
about to enter the engineering pro
fession are what is commonly pre
sented as technical knowledge. An 
almost startling statement. As a unit 
they placed the elements of initiative, 
forcefulness, honesty, character, de
pendability, understanding of men, 
and similar characteristics above tech
nical knowledge for the college grad
uate expecting to become a practicing 
engineer. On the other side, it is 
only fair to say that of these five 
hundred successful engineers quoted, 
more than fifty per cent were in the 
top quarter during their academic ca
reer, which would indicate that, with
out technical ability and training 
above the average, the chances of un
usual success are limited. All of 
which brings us back to the statement 
that training is the important thing.
At Columbia University, I did ex
tensive work in Thermodynamics with 
Prof. Lucke. He had just brought 
out his book on the subject and sev
eral of us worked out the endless 
problems in the book in order to check 
the answers. At that time, I was fa
miliar with these problems. As I write 
this article, I have just referred to 
this same book and find that it would 
be difficult indeed for me to work the 
problems which then were elementary. 
On the other hand, the personality 
and friendship of Dr. Lucke together 
with the training acquired in working 
the hundreds of problems are a part 
of my permanent equipment and as
sets.
The really successful athlete is the 
one of such'ability and training that 
he seldom, if ever, exerts himself to 
the limit. Likewise, the properly edu
cated engineer equips himself in a 
great number of directions which he 
will probably never apply. Practical
ly all of the engineers applications of 
physics, mechanics, or chemistry are 
(Continued on Page Four)
ELEANORE CRAVER WINS 
GIRLS ATHLETIC SWEATER
As vacation days close in upon us, 
many girls in the Margaret Morrison 
and Arts are approaching close to the 
covetod goal of a Womens' Athletic 
Association C, given .for participa
tion in the various branches of sports. 
So far, only one girl, Eleanore Craver, 
has acquirod a sufficient number of 
points to be awarded the letter and 
sweater. Miss Craver has 102 points, 
being the required number. In order 
to get this letter, one has to bo ac
tively .engagod in practically all 
branches, and not only this, sho must 
be above the average in ability.
Closely following her are Holon 
Macrum, Gertrude Lyons, Ray Fine. 
Winifred RLce, Catherine Ilodkinson, 
and Miriam Bond, all of whom have 
over 75 points. Miriam Bond, with 
77 is a Junior, and is thereforo due 
a lot of credit for gaining so many 
points in three years. All of the 
others aro Seniors,
Helen Macrum has 97 points, which 
means sho will have her C after 
earning throe more points. Sho will 
no doubt get many more than this 
number, as she is playing In tlio 
tennis tournament, and is a good 
point-gotter in tho annual swimming 
meet. "Cubbio Lyons, with 89 points, 
has a good chance to earn her lotter, 
as she Is one of tho best tonnls playors among tho girls in school, and is 
also an excellont swiminor.
The entire Hat of girls and their 
respective points Is printed below:
Seniors.
Agnes Allison 41, Melon Allen 18, 
Catherine Allon 10, Virginia Atkinson 
34, Celia Bachtel 15, Elizabeth Boyd 
10, Frances Burrows 15, Helon Busch 
15, Eleanor Cravor 102, Lillian Cowan 
8, Bernice Doverspike 8, Lenore Da
vies 8, Ray Fine 81, Ruth Gloichert 61, 
Olga Gojdics 17, Helon Gordon 10, Dor 
othy Grant 2, Catherine I-Iodkinson 77, 
Marion Jones 8, Gertrude Lyons 89, 
Helen Lutton 25, Dorothe Levison 31, 
Dorothea MacMinn 57, Helen Macrum 
97, Edith McLeod 35, Ruth McDavid 
28, Ada McCartney 8, Nadine McLenhan 25, Mary Morrison 18, Alice Nix
on 28,.Elizabeth Pratt 5, Winifred Rice 
72, Josephine Reed 8, Ruth Snyder 82, 
Eleanore Schombergj 25, Helen Schade 
10, Clara Waterman 28, Martha Mc
Laughlin 11, Geraldine Kelly 5, Mam 
Beam 3, Hazel Miller 3.
Juniors.
Miriam Bond 77, Dorothy Chalmers 
58, Mary Heilig 14, Florence Hill 50, 
Elizabeth Hedges 8, Blanche Humpfrey 8, Jean Kendall 11, Leah Rothman 25, E. Reismeyer 22, Anne Stuffle 40, Helen Sloan 18, Eleanor Wilt
5, M. Winstein 23, Marjory Heck 21, 
Gladys Sleppy 8, Adah Borgording 22, 
Anne Brennan 5, Emma B. Hauch 10, 
Grace Hershberger 5, Dorothy Reinck
6, Marjory Cook 5, Elma Davis 5, 
Grace Sheriff 15, Dorothy Wilson 5, 
Eleanor Thomas 15, Lillian Greenwalt 
5, Bertha Gerber 5.
Sophomore.
Hilda Anderspn 5, Bessie Bulmer 40, 
Hildreth Boughamer 25, Anna May 
Clawson 5, Virginia Clarke 11, Maude 
Cook 56, Helen Dougherty 51, Alice 
Espe 5, Pauline Espe 5, Louise Ely 
30, Martha Fleming 5, Florence Fin
lay 5, Esther Johnson 7, Anna Kinzer 
8, Agnes Lawler 5, Marie McKenzie 
5, Margaret McFall 5, Margaret Markey 55, Rose Morin 39, Earle Patter
son 20, Bernice Rentz 23, Mary 
Stumpfle 25, Mary Spears 36, Lois 
Snyder 17, Rebecca Wally 5, Bernice 
Zollers 5, Constance Berno 6, Cathe
rine Shoemaker 11, Mary Crawford 10, 
Helen Sago 6, Dorothy Weber 5, Isa
bel Sowash 5, Genevieve Todd 10.
Freshman.
Vivian Bird 5, Ethelyn Bauerlo 5, 
Helen Corroa 10, Hilda Cooper 5, 
Rose Costanza 11, Dorothy Cook 30, 
Geraldine Corbett 30, Charlotte Drake 
13, Jessie Filson 5, Charlotte Durie 20, 
Hester Griffin 5, Elsa Hines 11, Mary 
Hill 10, Mary Hughes 20, Emma Kra
mer 5, Helen Lloyd 30, Mabel McKee 
5, Lucille Musselman 5, Kathelyn Orr 
5, Rebecca Pontius 5, Beryl Rankin 
23, Helen Streiner 5, Catherine Speck 
5, Frances Talbot 5, Lucille Wiggin
5, Helen Webster 5, Barbara White
6, Mary Quick 8, Mary. Davenport 8, 
Edith Heddaeus 5, AntoiViett Fleck 5, 
Jane Nerno 6, Betty Bailey 5.
MICHIGAN MATCH 
ENDS IN A 3-3 TIE
Michigan Takes Majority in 
Singles But Carnegie An
nexes Doubles
Had one of the Tartan netrneu put 
just a little more coufidenco in his 
ability to return tho speedy drives of 
his Michigan opponent on tho homo 
courts last Monday, the score migtyt 
have been somewhat altered from the 
3-3 tie. which the Wolverines thought 
was a lucky getaway, and which the 
Plaid realized was all that could have 
happened toward holding the Ann 
Arbor boys to a draw.
Captain Schwartz of Carnegie and 
Chuck Merkle of Michigan opened tho 
days excitement by staging two sets 
of singles in which the flashy middlowesterner steadily climbed into the 
lead not to be overtaken by tho hard 
fighting of the local lad.
 The first of tho three sets between 
Jimmy OCoiinor, the Skibo defender, 
and Captain Roricli, the Michigan 
speed and smoke, began to throw tho 
odds in the direction of the invader, 
but Jimmy collected himself and al
lowed his man only five games out 
of the next two sets, giving him the 
distinction of winning a second match 
over ono of Michigans best. In all 
tho matches played to date, Jimmy 
has lost none, "and that isnt all, said 
Jimmy, as someone remarked about 
the fact.
Johnny Kell has a moan way of 
teasing the man on the other side of 
tho net, and had his Michigan man not 
been quite so elongated that the well 
placed shots off Johnnys racquot 
could have reached tho ground, tho 
matches would have boen his without 
much trouble.
I-Iausauer, playing tho fourth singles 
for tho Plaid, dropped his third sot 
aftor having rallied for a comobaclc 
of seven straight games In the socond 
set. At the termination of this 
match tho University of Michigan 
man led tho scoring 3 to 1.
So many throe sot matchos drew 
tho contest lato into tho aftornoon, 
but the crowd stuck to soo tho finish, 
and it surely was well worth their 
time to soo tho two doublos with Kell 
and OConnor paired against Klino 
and Joromo, and with iSchwartz and 
I-Iausauer on tho opposlto court 
against Morklo and Roricli. Tho 
games bocamo knotted and for a while 
It lookod as though tho boys would 
liavo to play by artificial light bot'oro 
olthor side would concede to the othor 
by force.
Tho scoro of thn gamon In summary 
form glvos proof of tho closonoHs of 
sevoral of tho matchos.
Tho summary:
SlngloHMorklo, Michigan, doloatod Schwartz*. Tech, 6-4, 6-2; OConnor, 
Tech, dofeatod Roricli, Michigan, 3-0, 
6-3, 6-2; Ivllno, Michigan, (fofeatod
Inter-Fraternity Track
Finals to Be Run Sat.
The strong competition In the 
Greek Olympics is well shown by tho 
fact that sevoral fraternities have an 
oven chance to raise their total num
ber of points Saturday and it will bo 
a difficult test for tho winner. At 
present Delta Upsllon is leading tho 
meet with the Theta XI and Pi Kappa 
Alpha a few points behind them.
The Theta Tau trophy cup which 
will be given to the team having the 
highest number of points and Coach 
Beelers relay cup, a trophy given to 
the team winning the relay event aro 
on exhibit near tho entrance of tho 
Central Building. So far tho InterFraternity track and field meet has 
been a big success so keep up the 
good work and everybody bo there to 
witness the final events of the meet 
ou Saturday.
All men competing in the meet aro 
urged to bo there on time. The first 
event will start at 1:45. Tho follow
ing events will bo hold tills Saturday: 
Shot Put, Javelin, Discuss, Pole Vault, 
Relay Run.
Kiel, Tech, 6-4, 1-6, 7-5; Zemon, Mich
igan, defeated Haauer, Tech, 6-3, 
5-7, 6-2.
DoublosSchwartz and I-Iausauer, 
Tech, defeated Merkle and Roridi, 
Michigan, 3-0, 6-4, 11-9; Keil and 
OConnor, Tech, defeated Ivllno and 
Jerome, Michigan, 6-4, 2-6, 6-1.
STRAW HATS
BONARPHELPS
Best under the sun 
MALLORY 
ACCOR 
SCHENLEY
DAVIES & HUGHES
OAKLAND'S MENS STORE 
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next to Strand Thoater 
OPEN EVENINGS
MINOR SPORTS TO 
FOLLOW NEW GYM
Will Make Such Teams as 
Boxing, Wrsstling, Swim
ming and Gym, Possible
Although the new gym is not yet 
built there is every indication that it 
will be beforo another year goes by. 
This new building will mean much to 
Carnogio Tech. With it will como 
many new sports. There are at tho 
present time very few minor sports 
on the campus. The new gymnasium 
will make it possible to train teams in 
many othor branches of athletics.
All of the largo universities and col
leges in the country dovelop teams in 
many more sports than does Carnegie 
Tech at the present time. We aro 
now in tho class A football rating and 
should live up to that standing in 
other sports also. Tho big handicap 
has been lack of facilities. Tho now 
gymnasium will make an extension of 
athletic activities possible.
Somo of the minor sports which will 
probably bo started are, boxing, wrest
ling, swimming, water polo, and gym. 
Having these now athletic activities 
on tho can\pus would afford a much 
wider range of sports for the student 
body to enter into and thus give many 
men an opportunity to serve their 
Alma Mater who at present are un
able to do so. Successful persuanco 1 
of those activities would also add 
much prestige to Carnegie Tech 
abroad. Here's to the new gym! May 
It be built soon and satisfy Carnogio 
Techs groatest noed.
NEW CHANGES ARE MADE
IN MATH. COURSES
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono)
In Mathematics during the year. No 
student will bo eligible to these prizes, 
howovor, who has not maintained a 
good rocord.
Tho prizes are as follows:
A scholarship of ono hundred dol
lars to that Sophomore who has boon 
most proficient in his Freshman and 
Sophomoro Mathematics.
A gold medal to that Sophomoro 
who has boon most proficient in 
Sophomoro Mathematics,
A silver modal to that Froshmau 
who has boon most proficient In 
FroHhman Mathematics.
Do You Need Extra Courses? I
............................................................................................................................I
Send for catalog describing over 400 coursca In History, English; 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by correapomlenca. Inquire 
how credits earned may be upplled on present college program.
31je Iniuerfiitij of flUjiragn
HOME OTUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
% men who begin at the bottom next
for big men.
pig field theres always room 
There is room lip here. In a
nation you can reach Llie top. 
.. energy, experience and imagistrength to climb. With added
college training will give you 
facturing and commercial. Your 
graduates  engineering, manudivisions of the industry open to 
There are three ever-broadening 
large, and iinalty the whole world.
town are the state, the country at 
or communication. And after the 
electrifiedin heat, light, power,
your own home town is completely 
Hj 38 now only in its youth. Not even 
manner remember that the industry
its infancy. As you begin in a like 
when the electrical industry was in 
IIEItE is where the executives begun
'estent Electric
nil uislribulurs <if clcctrii 
j \
ilf clcctrical equipment
Number 30 of a series

---------------------------------------------------

PwGE FOUolGE twoNEGIE lwolwNWEDNESDwY, MwY 23, 1923
KILTS FUND receives i Miss Clara L. West 
FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS Qje at LakeWOOd N. J.
A. Henderson, chairman of the Kilts 
KJommittee, and Mr. Lee or the Ath
letic Council, met with the Student 
Council to discuss ways and means 
of completing payment of the kilt 
uniforms purchased for the band. 
Mr. Lee was finally induced to offer 
five hundred dollars from- the Ath
letic Council. It is likely that a sim
ilar amount will bo appropriated by 
tlie Alumni Federation. This will 
leave about four hundred dollars to 
be raised.
Pi Delta Epsilon and Mortar Board 
were granted recognition on the 
campus as honorary organizations.
The Castle and the Carnegie Archi
tectural Society were referred to the 
new Student Council. They are to be 
considered on probation until further 
action is taken in the fall.
ANNOUNCEMENT OF WOMENS 
BANQUET DURING CAMPUS WEEK
Come on! All you women of Car
negie Tech! TVere having our big 
Campus Week splurge on Friday, 
May 25, at the Carnegie Commons; 
Those who were with us last year 
will exclaim The Woman's banquet' 
Righto!
It was fine last year but wait til 
you hear all the dandy stunts and 
speeches to say nothing of the feast 
were to have this year.
Tickets will be on sale this week. 
Be among the first to get yours. We 
women want our part of Campus 
Week to go over with a memorable 
"bang.
DEVELOPING AND PRINTING
---------for---------
Careful work of a high quality 
leave your films of Campus Week 
at the School Post Office.
HAY & SLEATH
Was Former Dean at Mar
garet Morrison College
Word has been received of the 
death last Saturday in Lakewood, N. 
J., of Miss Clara L. West, a native of 
Pittsburgh, and formerly acting dean 
of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
College, of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
Miss West was born in this city 
September 17, 187G. After receiving 
her education in private school and 
by tutors, she studied in Germany, 
France, and Italy, and later entered 
upon her career as a teacher.
On January 3, 1907, she was ap
pointed to the family of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College as pro
fessor of the home-making arts and 
social arts. She soon won promotion 
to the office as Acting Dean of the 
college, from which position she re
signed in 1912. Miss West was award
ed a degree as Master of Arts by the 
University of Pittsburgh in 1911.
The funeral was held today from 
the Princeton, N. J., home of her 
brother, Dean Andrew F. West, of 
Princeton University.
Formal Guard Mount to 
Be Staged By R. 0. T. C.
The R. O. T. C. unit will stage a 
formal guard mounting as their bit of 
entertainment for Campus Week.
The guard will be assembled imme
diately after the sweepstakes, on the 
field by the library hut and be parad
ed before the Officers of the Day in 
the same manner as is done at the 
Military Academy. Reviewing officers 
will be Adjutant Knight, Sergeant 
Major Nelson, Officer of the Guard 
Anderson, Officers of the Day, L. H. 
Harris and Cy Hoenninger, and the 
guard will consist of fifty of the R. 
O. T. C.s crack guardsmen.
As an asset to this ceremony the 
band will* play and join with the army 
in parade.
WooBd You Like 
 to SVIake $500
During Summer Vacation?
An unusual opportunity 
is offered to college men 
and women to earn 
enough money during 
the coming summer ' 
vacation to p ay ncxtyears 
tuition and .expenses.
Write loday for Particular!
It will 6urpri.se you to learn how 
easily a substantial sum of money 
can be earned by selling the Premier 
Knife and Scissors Sharpener right, 
inyour o wn home town or city. Every 
housewife wants one the minute she 
sees itbecause it is such an im
provement over the old-fashioned whetstone. Just a stroke or 
two of the Premier Sharpener on any knife or scissors blade 
produces a lceen-cutting edge instantly. Written guarantee 
makes it easy to sell. Write at once for complete information or send 
50c for sample, stating what territory you wish us to reserve for you. 
lGEtwEG ofg. Co., 806 U East GGand BoulEvaGd, DEtGowt, owch.
Au fhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE*
Bennie Kruegers Orchestra
2419Apple Sauce
Wild Papa
Two Wonderful Fox Trots
Bennie Kruegers Dance Orchestra makes records ex
clusively for Brunswick, because of their absolute fidelity 
to tone and rhythm and their clearness and beauty.
Here are two of the best dance selections you have 
ever heard. Full of tantalizing saxophone strains with 
a rippling accompaniment of brasses and piano. Hear 
these two dance records. Youll want them.
Something new every day
New Brunswick Records arc ready every day. I 
No waiting. Any Brunswick dealer will gladly 
play them for you. Brunswick Records can be ' 
played on any phonograph but are best on The 
Brunswick.
&nmawick
Carnegie Men Organize New 
Clan For Connecticut State
M. M. Plebe Bake Sale
Benefits Scholarships
Twelve Men Gather in Hotel 
Taft at New Haven to Form 
State Organization  To 
Hold Three Meetings Year
ly
COLONEL DAY SPEAKS
As far as .the Connecticut alumni 
are concerned Saturday evening, May 
5, was the biggest date for alumni 
events yet scheduled.
Twelve fellows from all the corners 
of Connecticut came together at tbe 
Hotel Taft in New Haven and formed 
th Connecticut Clan. Being so far 
remote from Pittsburgh in territory 
that'is subjected to the influence of 
some of America's oldest colleges, 
and Carnegie Tech men being few 
and far between, the evening proved 
a bracer Carnegie-wise for a majority 
of them.
This meeting marked the first suc
cessful attempt or Carnegie men in 
Connecticut to organize. The men 
present all felt that since there were 
so few men in any one Connecticut 
city, it was futile to try to attempt 
city Clans and consequently decided 
to form the state organization as the 
best way to keep together and keep 
in touch with the school collectively.
It is planned under this present or
ganizationor until more alumni set
tle in Connecticut to form city Clans 
to hold not over three state meet
ings a year in the different cities 
where easy access from all over the 
state is possible.
The gang which showed up last 
Saturday night is just one-half the 
Carnegie Tech population of Connec
ticut and at the banquet definite 
plans were made to account for all 
men in Connecticut.
Hodcrrlers, plumbers, chemists, 
architects, building and) foundry mag
nates, engineers and others were 
presentand we must not forget one 
Maggie Murph who was unable to be 
present on account of household du
ties. It was group representative of 
Carnegie Tech in every department 
and as the fellows all felt "it seemed 
good to exercise the lungs, on Dear 
Old Tech, the short speller,1 etc., and 
be in Carnegie atmosphre once 
again."
After disposing of , a 'steak dinner 
and1 settling down ! on cigars, a very 
informal discussion of Carnegie Tech 
matters was held with Colonel Day 
who was present from Pittsburgh.
Colonel Day veny interestingly told 
of the most recent developments at 
Carnegie to a group of decidedly in
terested listeners and afterwards he 
answered, questions which were fired 
at him ono after the other. The ma
jority of men having been away from 
school for five or six years gave an 
unlimited source for quizzers and 
as it was afterwards remarked most 
of tho fellows eyes were opened 
wide, and Che extraordinary consist
ent growth of the school was a reve
lation. Colonel Days presence was 
surely appreciated as was indicated 
by a rising vote of thanks and it was 
felt that had not some one from 
Pittsburgh been present to put the 
fellows "hip to what was going on 
around Pittsburgh the meeting surely 
would have lacked1 a hit of seasoning.
After learning of the events around 
Schenley Park the question of organ
izing was discussed and resulted in 
the afore-mentioned plans. R. W. 
Arnold, '21, of New Haven, was elect
ed president; Joseph Gelman, '17, of 
Hartford, vice president, and G. R. 
Holmes, 17, of New Haven, secretarytresrer. O. A. Dlckman having 
planned to attend the campus week 
activities, was appointed the Clans 
representative at the big doings.
A vote to express to former Presi
dent Hamjnerschlag the Clans rec
ognition of his efforts in building up 
the college as well as one of regret 
that he had left the institution was 
passed. A similar one was passed 
conveying to Dr. Baker the best wish
es of the Clan for his success as the 
schools new head and expressing 
confidence in his ability to keep 
building up the standards and pres
tige of Carnegie.
The matter of the next meeting to 
be held early in the fall was talked 
over and at present Hartford seems 
to be the best place. Plans are in 
the works to invite Dr. Baker to this 
meeting and also at the same time to 
issue the complete directory of Con
necticut Carnegie Tech men. In the 
meantime efforts are being made to 
bring up to date the address records 
and plans are already under way for 
the next meeting in the fall.
With the Carnegie Tech population 
of Connecticut on the increase this 
organization is going to be the first 
blow on the entering wedge into 
Connecticuts eye that the football 
team put here last fall. They also 
put Carnegie on the front page and 
the Clan is now going to keep it 
there.
Following the election of officers 
a discussion was held where all 
present had a chance to express their 
opinions on the benefits of the train 
ing they received at Carnegie, also 
to criticise it as to where it might 
be improved in their estimation. This 
discussion brought out a lot of val
uable information.
Any former Carnegie Tech man liv
ing: in Connecticut, is asked to com
municate with George Holmes, Secre
tary, Care McLogan Foundry Com 
pany, New Haven, if he wants to 
keep alive his old college spirit by 
joining the Connecticut Clan.
Thistle Now Ready For 
Distribution. A Few on Sale
The 1923 Thistle has arrived and is 
being distributed at Room 14, Indus
tries College. This room is in the 
lower hall just around the corner 
from the Carnegie Tartan office. 
There are a few Thistles not sub
scribed for and these are to be sold. 
The first come first served as there 
will be no waiting list.
In order for the subscribers to fuK 
fill their contract with the Thistle 
Board, it will be absolutely necessary 
for them to get their books before 
June 1. After that date all books will 
be sold to the first comers, whether 
they have been subscribed for or not.
The office will be open every day 
from 11:30 to 1:30 until June 1. This 
applies to the three days of Campus 
Week also.
Senior Fence Finally
Appears on Campus
After many heart-racking delays 
the Seniors have finally secured their 
much desired fence and though their 
time is short they may still, expe
rience the thrill of setting on their 
Senior fence.
The last delay was caused by lack 
of proper transportation facilities, 
the committee having great difficulty 
in securing anyone to haul tho fence 
posts in from Greensburg. It was not 
until Sunday that a trucker was 
finally secured to bring in the delin
quent fence posts.
Tho rails had meanwhile been 
worked up in carpenter shop by va
rious Seniors and many willing as
sistants, so that upon arrival of the 
posts the work could at once pro
ceed.
Considerable comment has been oc
casioned by the position of the fence, 
the critclsm being mado that In fac
ing Woodlawn avienue, njany Seniors 
were too liable to suffer from stiff 
necks. The committee has, however, 
given this feature considerable atten
tion and have hence evolved a re
markable design; the sitters may 
turn their backs to Woodlawn.
As a result or the committees 
foresight it has been rather difficult 
to differentiate between the front and 
back of the fence, but It has now 
beeni unanimously decidod that any
one facing a certified walk shall bo 
considered in good form.
It is hopted that the lower classmen 
will truly appreciate this difie erod
ed with so much exertion by tho 
Senior,class and may always regard 
it as a true example of speed, sim
plicity and luxury.
The M. M. Plebes have been work
ing very hard toward making a grand 
finale for their first year. This suc
cess was partly attained last Satur
day when the girls hgld a Bake Sale 
in the Pittsburgh Market. Tho pro
ceeds of which are to be donated to a 
Freshman scholarship.
Baked goods of all description were 
very much in evidonce. Bread, rolls, 
pios, cakes, cookies, and as a sldo 
issue, candy and homemade preserves 
wore sold. As there was no expense 
at all connected with tho sale every 
cent of the eighty dollars which were 
taken in was absolutely cleat*.
Every girl in the class had somo 
share in the success of the enterprise. 
Tho dorm girls who were unable to 
solicit donations from friends or fam
ilies, gave their time and money. A 
number of the girls taking the House
hold Economic course worked long 
and steadily at the ovens of the M. M. 
kitchens Friday afternoon. The in
gredients for the food prepared by 
these girls was supplied by the money 
which the dorm girls donated. Tho 
committee included: Lillian Cunning
ham, general chairman; Mary Dale, 
Kathleen Orr, Mary Quick, Elizabeth 
Schwartz, Catherine Speck, Rue Swan
son, Helen Weir, and Elizabeth 
Wright.
MANY OPENINGS 
FOR SUMMER JOBS
Anything Open From Ditch 
Digging and Surveying to 
Forge Work and Clerking
Below is a list of work opon for 
students this summer. Some of these 
require immediate action, so if you 
are interested in anything on the list, 
apply at the Employment Bureau at 
once. It is not too early.
Railroad workAny place ou Erie 
R. R. System.
CivllsSpringdale, Pittsburgh, New 
Kensington.
Steel Mill  Pittsburgh, Ellwood 
City, McKeesport, Am bridge, Bethlohem.
Machine, foundry and forge shops 
Pittsburgh, Pitcairn, Derry, Couemaugh, Neville Island, Jeannette.
SellingLamps, bicycles, electrical 
appliances, real estate, etc.
ChemistPittsburgh.
ElectricalsWiring and sub-station 
construction.
Clerks and RecordersPittsburgh.
Rubber tire manufacture.
Bettor come in and fill out an ap
plication.
CLAN NEWS
REQUIREMENTS OF
AN ENGINEER AS STATED
BY DR. RITTMAN
(Continued from Pago Throe) 
the elementary formulae and laws 
which are taught In the Freshman 
and Sophomoro years, but observation 
seems to prove that wo aro able to 
apply these laws and formulae in in
telligent fashion only when wo have 
studied far beyond them. Even 
though few engineers use calculus, It 
is tho writers opinion that there 
would be a less number who could 
apply algebra If they had not studied 
calculus and other higher mathemat
ics. In the last analysis, the really 
Important technical equipment for tho 
engineer is an understanding of fund
amental mathematics, physics, chem
istry, and mechanics, all freely inter
woven and buttressed with common 
everyday horsosense. Universal ex
perience seems to have proved that 
most of us must study very far be
yond the rules and laws. This prompt
ly brings me to the question of how 
far shall the prospective engineer or 
scientist carry on his preparation to 
become a leader In his field. Of course 
this is a matter open to debate, but 
in my opinion, the element of supply 
and demand applies to college grad
uates ju3t as it does to sugar or ap
ples. When one reads that there are 
some 60,000 young men training to be
come engineers, it is obvious that 
there is competition ahead. Those 
who would achieve marked success 
probably will have to follow one of 
two courses: either select or create 
some field in engineering in which 
there is a little competition, or else 
train beyond his fellows in his chosen 
field.
Statistics indicate that many of 
those men who contiue in engineering 
do so in fields other than in the one 
covered by their college course. The 
civil engineer finds himself in me
chanical work, or the mechanical grad
uate is pursuing electrical work. Per
sonally I see nothing in this to cause 
concern. A properly trained man 
should be capable of developing him 
self in any of the engineering fields. 
It is fortunate that this should be 
so because few young men of eighteen 
to twonty know definitely what work 
will Interest them most at twentyfive or thirty.
In conclusion, I would say that tho 
most Important possession which a 
prospective engineer can hope to got 
in college is "good training. This is 
not represented by text book formu
lae, because every other prospective 
engineer can buy these same text 
books for a few dollars. The contact 
with a few men and often one man 
stands out in the afterlife of the stu
dent beyond specific textbook knowl
edge; personalities, and not specific 
information. It is difficult, if not im
possible, to have class room exercises 
for the development of personality, 
initiative, honesty, tact, forcefulness, 
dependability, and the like. The colNEW YORK CLAN
The most enthusiastic and best 
meeting of tho Noav York Carnogio 
Clan, since tho big annual banquet in 
February was hold at tho Nankin Res
taurant in Newark, Friday evening, 
May 11. iS'ovontoon presented their 
appoaranco shortly after seven oclock 
and everyone enjoyed the excellent 
chicken dinner served by tho manage
ment.
The lull between tho regular din
ner hour and tho aftor-thoator rush 
found tho Clan in lono possession and 
with the holp of an enthusiastic orch
estra good uso was mado of tho largo 
dance floor. Several cabaret enter
tainers also volunteered tholr sorvlcos 
and tholr efforts wore woll received. 
As was promised beforehand, noth
ing of a business nature was dlscussed or mentioned, the entire ovonIng being given over to entertainment.
Tho following attended: Mr and
Mrs. G. L. Burgess, Mrs. Brinkman, 
Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Gutor, Mr. and 
Mrs. E. M. Grotzlor, Mr and Mrs. W.
M. Sheldon, S. A. Smith, Miss Law, 
Mr and Mrs. Paulus, Mr. and Mrs. 
Greiner, R. L. Kreidler, Miss Riley. 
Announcement of tho next got-gethor 
will bo mado in an early issue.
WASHINGTON CLAN
The Washington id an hold their 
May mooting on Wednosday evonlug 
the lGfith, at the homo of Herbert 
Marti, 143$, Ames Place, N. E., with 
an attoudanco of fifteen. A short 
business meeting was hold. Plans 
for a piemie, tho lattea* part of Juno, 
at which the) Washington Alumni will 
entertain tho undergraduates, wore 
discussed. Miss Staples and Messrs. 
Cassanova and Picketing wore ap
pointed to malto arrangement.
A short program was then given. 
Miss llosomary Arnold gave some 
vory clever readings. Mr. Pickering 
rondorod sovoral piano solos. Dr 
Thurstono gatvo an Interesting talk 
on Psychology. Cards and refresh
ments rounded out tho evening.
Inter-Fraternity Dance Guide
MHP
FOR
MIGRRTORY DPINCE 
can neo te tech rnfiTf-ffNir/f.s
Theta XI.....................................................................................................................4902 Forbcc Stret
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.....................................................................................4915 Forbes Street
Sigma Nu ................................................................................................................4921 Forbes Street
Delta Tau Delta...................................................................................................5064 Forbea Street
Delta Mu ......................,................................................................................5574 Aylesboro Street
Beta Theta Pi........................................................................................................5549 Forbes Street
Woodlawn Club....................................................,.........................................5814 Forbes Street
Sigma Epsilon Phi........................................................................................5812 Bartlett Street
lota Sigma Delta........................................................................................5601 Wilkins Avenue
Beta Sigma Rho........................................................................................1146 Wightman Street
Kappa Sigma Rho...................................................................................444 Amberson Avenue
Delta Upsilon ................................................................................,...............5224 Liberty Avenue
Pi Kappa Alpha.......................................................................................4817 Baum Boulevard
Kappa Sigma .........................................................................................................624 Clyde Street
Acacia .........................................................................................................................630 Clyde Street
Delta Xi.....................................................................At K. of C. Hall, Fifth and Bellefield
Delta Phi Delta.....................................................................................................3205 Idaho Street
lege or university usually does much 
in the development of these elements 
in the student, but it is usuafly done 
in an informal way by the teacher; 
or it may come through the other fel
lows of the institution; or the very 
character of the institution itself may 
be conducive to the development of 
these all important features. Some 
day, when psychology, sociology, and 
kindred subjects are better under
stood and more capable of class room 
application, much will be accomplish
ed. In the meantime, let us say that 
a very valuable attribute for any en
gineer is to have been v/ell trained.
M. M. PLEBE TEA DANCE TUES.
Tlie Freshman class of Margaret 
Morrison will hold a dance in the 
Union on Tuesday evening, May 20, 
1923. Tho charge has been placed 
at one dollar per couple, In order to 
make it possible for a large crowd 
to attend. The Collegiate Imps have 
been secured to furnish the music. 
The receipts of the dance will go to
ward tho scholarship luna which v/as 
so gloriously started by tho proceeds 
of tlie bake sale hold by tho class 
several w.eeks ago.
BORROWED?
Wm. D. Smith, Science Plebo, had 
a highly) prized camera borrowed from 
his locker without permission last 
week.
He wishes the borrower would 
either return the camera or come 
back for the extra film.
STUDENT COUNCIL ELECTS 
NEW OFFICERS FOR NEXT YEAR
The last meeting of the present 
'Students Council was held for the 
purpose of electing the officers of 
the council for next year. The cheer
leader position is also filled] by a 
man elected by the Student Council. 
The president was elected previous 
to this meeting, as every one knows, 
is Tommy Griggs, Science.
The other officers elected were:
Adah Borgerdluo ....................Secretary
H. E, Dyyeman .......................Treasurer
P. F. Schucker...........................................
Chairman of the Point System Com|mittee.
Cy Hoenningor was elected) to he 
the Head Cheer Leader for next year.
BEETLE 80CIETY WILL AWARD 
SCHOLARSHIP AND CUP
A scholarshlp ls belng awardod by 
th Bettle Sorority to tho Tech, wom 
an wlio Ima mode th most of tho op 
portifnitiOB affordod by Carnogle boti) 
on and off th campus. This girl wlll 
he choaen by an appolnted commit* 
teo.
Sinco baseball is to ho mado 
major sport in womons athlotlcs, tho 
Beotlo Society wlll al so award a cup 
to this years winning class team.
LOSTI
A pair of shell-rimmed glasses in 
a brown leather case, on the campus, 
Monday, April 9. Reward, if return
ed to Miss Moore, basement Margaret 
Morrison Building. ,
t
W
HUMAN HAIRNETS 
"Made Stronger Last Longer
An oxotuslvo Duro Bollo foaturo lu 
tho Duro knot. Over -lGO of thoao 
tiny knots aro In ovary Duro Bollo 
not.
Just try n fow and you, too, will 
loarn why Duro Bollo Ib boat. 
When you wear a Duro Boll hair 
not, you know that you 
aro woarlnK tho l>0Bt 
not that human inj;vnulty can produce.
Buyttiembytfe,
LYjvho
Clarion
^Slmi^iQ^TcaTDislhuJiorix
^)bwnsGMii Qaco
Mon who cure wear Town 
ncnd-Grnco Straw Hut becautio tho stylo of them cxprcaaea beat tho wearor'u per
sonality, Wear ono and bo 
comfortable.
Where all tho otudonts go. 
Ever foremoot In new Ideas''
C. A. HEIMERT
3014 FORBES STREET 
IROQUOIS BLOCK 
Standard Qunllty Slnco 1882.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital....................................$200,000.00
Surplunnnd Undivided
Profits................................$300,000.00
Dopooltn, Ovor - - - $4,000,000.00 
8AFE DEPOSIT BOXE8 
FOR RENT
TECH BARBER 
SHOP
. Now located at 
4531 FORBES ST.
g= Compliments | 
of g
Skibo Inn I
Undergrads 
Attention!
P-orhaps your
H-ome is in or near Philliy, 
l-f SO) wo want your 
L-eave to offer to 
Y-ou a hearty welcome.
C-an we be of service?
L-ot us have your 
A-ddross and
N-otlfy us when you arrive.
I
J. S. Charles, 5333 N. Carlisle St. 
P. W. 8chmldt, 5111 Regent St.
L. E. Exline, 213 8. 47th St. 
W. P. Llpplncott, Palmyra, N. J.
8CHENLEY TAILORING CO.
Undor now management. Ladleo and Mens Suito made to or
der. Altering, cleaning and press
ing.
420 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Goods called for and delivered.
Schenley 1538.
They were overcome with spring 
fever. Maxa said: Dont move Red, 
Im so comfortable; your head is so 
soft.-Black and Magenta.
0200000101000248484800530053
