CARNEGIE DAY 
EXERCISES 
MUSIC HALL TODAY
--------------------------
ARTS BALL PARTY 
THURSDAY 
ARTS BUILDING
Q>
VOL. XXIII, No. 10, PART I.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1928.
Violet Triumphs Over Red in Most 
Important Game of Day at Ball Park. 
Plaid is Brilliant in First Defeat
Honors Won ByArchitectural Students
Strong Carries New Yorkers 
to Victory With His 
Smashing Play
SEVEN PLAYERS ENDCAREER AT CARNEGIE
Tartans Show Traditional Fight Against Almost Hopeless Odds
The fondest dream of thousands of Carnegie rooters has faded away. All. through the  season the Tartan team has fought, and fought hard, to bring to Carnegie a national championship. W.&J., Pitt, Georgetown, 
Notre Dame, all fell before the Plaid gridders. But on Saturday the Ski- bos met their matchKen Strong, Coach Chick Meehan, and 10 others 
from New York University.The score was 27-13. Carnegie 
had a good team; New York had a better team. The Tartans were courageous; New York was courageous, toobut in the matter of cool minded courage the Skibos excelled. The boys may have lost, but m defeat they showed themselves to be a much better team than in victory and, in the last quarter gave a shining txample f that stuff tor which every Carnegie learn is famous. Fighting against almost hopeless odds, their play lost not one iota of brilliancy, but rather increased in I dash and fervor and brought to Lar- negie a second touchdown. If spe-I cial mention for any particular exhi
bition of courage is in order it, should go to Dutch Eythe, the plucky ' Mars speedster. All through the season he has been nursing a bruised leg and a torn ^shoulder. At one \ particular stage of Saturdays game he was holding his arm practically helpless across his chest, but seeing th;> he had been singled out to receive a pass frotr. the hands of his captain, he emerged from a mass of struggling, 200-pound New Yorkers, reached up with his . good arm and fell with the ball on the one-yard line. Karcis then came through, oi rather wpnt through, for a touchdown. As the first quarter ended a beaming smile- was on the countenance of every, Plaid rooter. A forward pass to Sweet had been successful, as was Letzelters placement kick, and the score board had registered 7-0. It was in -second. quar- that affairs took on a different color, in'fact, ihe color ' chan^c. was very decidedthe Red faded and the Violet came into prominence. As the half neared completion, Strong, who had carried the ball down the field, shot a long pass to Barrabee who romped across the line and, when the second half began, the score stood at
7-7.II In the third quarter the GothamIritcs se. to work with a will. Oncemore Strong, ably aided by Hill, brought the ball towards the Tartan .^goal. Finding that it was useless to to gain through Carnegies fa^nous line,' he set into motion a beautiful trick pass with Barrabee receiving and scoring. Later on in 1 the same period the famous Ken raced -11 yards to make the score 
read 21-7.It was in the last quarter that Carnegie rallied, the aforementioned pass from Harpster to Eythe and a line buck by Karcis sending the ball over.(Continued on Page 5)
Sophmores Hold Class 
Dance at Webster Hall
Wally Still Smiles
Five of the seven highest awards first mention placeds and four "mentions were won by Carnegie Architects in a recent contest in analytique problems conducted by the Beaux Arts*.Society of New York City. Those winning the first mention placeds were W. H. Mallorie, C. J. Kissling, F. E. Olsen, D. K. Ritchey and W. A. Wolander. The winners of mentions were Marianne Dean, J. A. Dimling, E. P. Hayes and W. H. Ward.The Society of the Beaux Arts submitted by Carnegie students holds its competitions at New York City every six weeks. Schools of Architecture throughout the United States, such as Carnegie Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of\ Technology, Yale, Oklahoma, University, of Pennsylvania, send their problems to New York to be judged anonymously by a jury of the. Beaux Arts Society. The highest award (Continued on Page 3)
Carnegie Day Brings Thoughts of Founder 
And the Opening Days of Campus Life
"WALLY STEFFEN
Ca negie Graphica to Change 
Organization into New Local 
Hono ary Printing Society
Nominating Committee is Appointed By Normendeau to Revise The Constitution.
The Soph Hop held last Friday at the. Georgian ball room of Webster Hall was one of tl.e most successful dances held in recent years. The Soph Hop- is annually regarded-as the biggest informal dance of the year, and this years affair was no 
exception.'
The music was furnished by Nelson Maples Original Leviathan orchestra and their playing more than fulfilled all expectations. This, orchestra is nationally known and has appeared many times in the city. No doubt the presence of .such a. famous group of syncopators was one of the primary reasons for. the fine attendance. The . novelty numbers which they gave were very -much appreciated by everyone.
The program favors with the Carnegie seal in gold were fitting souvenirs of the greatest event of the 
Sophomore classes.
Patrons and patronesses were': President Baker, Dean Green, Dean Tarbell, Dean Iiiebel, Dr. and. Mrs. Ihrig, Mr. and Mrs. Jewett, Mr. and Mrs. Mott, Mr. and Mrs. Alan. Bright, and Miss Breed. Chaperones 
(Continued on page 2)
JACK SMITH. LOCAL PILOT. TO SPEAK TO AERO MEN
Students interested in aviatlon at 
Carnegie are urged to be present 
at the meeting of the Aviation Club in Room 304, Industries Hall, at 7:30 this evening. The club has as its guest speaker Jack Smith. Air Mail Pilot from Bettis Field and' well-known local flyer. He will give some advice on piloting and general aviation work.
An effort is being made to secure William P. McCracken, Assistant: Secretary of Aeronautics for 
the United States Commerce Department, as a specialspeaker. Mr McCracken is now' in Pittsburgh as the principal- speakei for- Carnegie Day. ' The meeting will start promptly, and an Open discussion will be held after the addresses are given.
With the appointment of an or
ganization committee, definite steps 
have been taken to make Graphica 
an honorary organization for men 
in the Printing Department. Hitherto Graphica. was a departmental club in ihe college of engineering to which all nieinucr oi me prim
ing department automatically belonged.
The nominating committee is composed oi the following men: G. Durr, a senior in the depart
ment, chairman; J. B. Ash wen oi the Junior Ciass, C. W. Pitkin of ihe Sophomore Class, and the Officers of the Graphica, E. Norman- dca'u, president; W. Maurer, vice pietidentj; C. Rosenberg;, treasurer, and K. Gress, secretary.
The committee will draw up a code of qualifications for membership as a preliminary step: These qualifications will- be acted 
upon by the Graphica, and the nomination of students can then proceed. In order that the ; con- sutution will meet the demands of an honorary fraternitys constitution and that it will be approved by Student Council, the Graphical present constitution will be revised. Professor Gustafson, head of the department, has approved he plans.
Men who have, been in the de-^ partment a year will be permitted to join now and become charter members of the fraternity upon the payment of one semesters dues. After December 1, how
ever, members must be selected. Membership' will be based on scholarship, activities and person
ality. Dues will also, be increased.
By making admission.  standards higher-and by revising membership regulations, it is hoped that a different field of activities will be followed from the one previously adopted by Graphica. The object of the honorary is' to promote a better understanding among the students and. create a greater interest in the _curricular activities by (Continued on- page 2)
W. C. PETTIT, PITT EDITOR, 
COMMENTS ON EXCHANGE
Carnegie Enters Mens 
Glee Clubs Competition
Seven Colleges Represented in the Annual Recital at Carnegie Hall, December 10
The Mens Glee Club will make its second appearance of the. season in a program at Peabody High School on Monday evening, December 10, under the direction of Paul Brautigam, student director. Only a part of the program will be given over to the Glee Club. Miss Leota McNemerv, xylophone .oloist, and Willibald Ryshanek, violinist, both of the Music Department, will assist on the program.Plans for the annual Intercol- Iceiate Contest to be held in the Carnegie Music Hall on February 22, arc already being made. Mr. Bortz, chairman, has announced that thus far seven clubs have entered. They include Pitt, W. & J , Bucknell, Tuniata, Allegheny, Penn State and Carnegie. Geneva has not definitely decided to enter.
Some changes have been made in the qualification requirements for the contest this year. Previously some clubs consisted of students who were studying voice only, and were not carrying an academic schedule in their respective colleges were allowed to compete. This gave several of the clubs an unfair advantage, even those whose numbers included only students carrying a full-time schedule. The new ruling excludes from the competition, all students who are not_ taking a complete course jn their institution. Each club will, be allowed thirty men on the stage during the competition. The. winner will be picked by three judges, who will meet' previous to the competition to decide upon a correct interpretation.For two consecutive years Penn State has had the honor of receiving the silver loving cup as winners of the Western Pennsylvania contest. If they should win the cup this year it will become their permanent possession.Each organization will sing three selections, the prize song, the choice song and a college song. The committee has selected "Songs My Mother^ Taught Me, by Dvo- (Continued On Page 2) .
The exchange of the editorial 
staffs of The Tartan and The Pitt 
Weekly next week marks an inno
vation in the field of college jour
nalism. There have been occasions when staffs of college publications have "substituted for the regular staffs of commercial newspapers in the /smaller cities. But the idea of an exchange of the staffs of two college newspapers is one which (Continued on page 2) 
Today we are having a birthday party for our "Uncle Andy, but the invitation that we shall extend to him can be accepted only by the spirit of Carnegie. Our means of expression on this happy occasion takes the form of Carnegie Day, a form which for 15 years has succeeded in delicately fusing the youthful bursts of gaiety and jollity, with the ' thoughtful thrill of reverence necessarily resulting upon consideration of ones close contact with the greatness of a great and human man.How well the word human describes Andrew Carnegie! This ?ll-e.mbracing quality showed itself 
in the amused, congenial twinkle- of his eye, in the tolerant lines of his mouth, as a warm breezy summer day shows itself in the gentle flutter of green leaves and the calm, sipping ripple of waters.- Great accomplishments for humanity can be prompted only by great men who have the ' human feeling within them.It was this great, human soul who made it possible for certain ordinary folk to begin to broaden thcii minds and to really appre- ciat the magnanimous sort of personalities which Carnegie himself possessed. It was he who seasoncd our educational opportunities with that great spirit which is ready to smile at defeat and which is, therefore, never defeated, which secs situations through an elevated seme of humor, which permeates the feelings of all and finds expression, in loyal little school songs and in staunch, stout cheers. All, one is truly thankful for having such a smilingly wise and justly knowing guardian angel as Carnegie.The many happy scenes of which, our "Uncle Andy was himself the cause were enacted on our own campusbut 20 years ago we did not yet have the classical halls of the Arts School as a setting for classical boy and girl conveisa- tions, and Margaret Morrison, the 1 aven for football men. Campus conversations then were joyous discussions, on the lack of necessity to buy books, because the first c'-vrses were purely lecture, and the rumorwhich was surely only a -rumor^-that a girls school was going to be built. The atmosphere thar then pervaded was filled with enthusiasm over a new venture enthusiasm to which all .like contributed, for the situation was new to all of them. Teachers were (Continued on Page 2)
Thanksgiving Recess
Begins On Thursday
The Thanksgiving Recess will commence this Thursday, November 29, and will terminate the following Monday, December 3. Classes will be held as usual on Wednesday, November 28, and Monday,- December 3. Any student who is absent from classes on these days will be subject to the customary penalty of one count.- Those men and women who are remaining during the recess will be entertained on the campus at various social functions. Under the auspices of the Y. W. C. A. and Y. M. C. A., a Thanksgiving dinner will be served at 12 oclock in the Carnegie Inn. Mr. Davis and Mrs. Patterson will act as host and hostess. Mr. Wurtz, the chairman of the Student Welfare Committee, will give his annual dinner at his j home on Thanksgiving day to ,about ten students. On Fri
day, November 30. a Thanksgiving Recess Dance will be held in the Union for the dormitory students 
and commuters.
Hon. William B. McCracken Is Speaker 
At Unveiling of Hamerschlag Memorial 
In Carnegie Day Exercises Today
First President
Carnegies Rifle Team Arts Ball Party to be Held 
Wins Championship Trophy in ExhLiion Room on Dec. 7
President Baker to Make Presentation At Caruegie Day 
Celeb;alion Today. .
Committee Chosen For
. Interfratemity Formal
At a special meeting of the In- terfratcrnity Council held last Thursday evening in the "Y~club- room the committee for the Inter- fraternity. Formal was appointed. It consists of Louis Fahenstock, chairman; Rachord Devcrcll, Arthur Sedells and Frank Sturgess. Fahnestock is a member Of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, Deverell of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, Si- dells of the Alpha sigma Phi and. Sturgess of the . Delta . Upsilon. The formal is scheduled to take place next year on Friday, January 11. The committee lias already begun to make plans for the affair, and a most successful da^ice, both socially and financially, is expected.The _ special meeting was called primarily to make final preparations for the opening of the rushing season :which started Saturday. At tbe request of Dean Tarbell the time, of, the opening was changed from 8:30 a. m. to 9 a. m. Saturday morning.
Future of Science Foretold By Edwin
Slosson, Author of 1 Creative Chemistry
The scene was an elementary chemistry class in a college. Edwin E. Slosson, author of "Creative Chemistry, was a visitor.InstructorWhat is -the aim of science?"
Girl StudentThe aim of science is to enable one to live in accordance with the forces of nature.
Here Mr. Slosson, indignant, 
abruptly interrupted tile proceedings to declare that the purpose of science is to frustrate the forces of nature.- He could not help being angry, when the girl was sitting in a comfortably-heated room in a steel-constructed building, reading from a machinery-made hook and dressed in artificial silk clothes. Why, even her complexion came- from the : scientific laboratory!. .
Mr; : Slosson related the above 
incident when he spoke last week at an open meeting which was
scheduled as one of the features ;if the Coal Conference. According to Mr. Slosson, Dr. Baker did 
not expect him to solve any problems at the conference, so he obligingly decided not to disappoint his host. Since he was barred from topics that the audience was familiar with, and also from sub
ject? that he knew , well, he avowedly ended by talking on topics *l.at neither lie nor his listeners 
knew anything aboutthe future of science.
The daily bother of spending time, and energy on meals may one day be- eliminated. Perhaps a days nourishment may be. received from a capsule. This sounds all right, but, as Mr. Slosson re
marks, "Synthetic. food may be a hard pill to'swallow..'The farmer of .the future may. cease raising vulgar food- He ma> disdain 'to plant rice, sugar cane, (Continued on Page 2)
As a part of the celebration of Carnegie Day at the Music Hail the trophy ror the National Engineer Rifle Match will' be formally presented to the school by Dr. Baker. Just before school ended last June word was received by the Military Department that the rifle team of the Carnegie Engineer unit 
had captured first nonors- in the annual National Engineer Match. In winning this match Carnegie was not without serious competition as is: shown by the scores of the first five teams. The margin of victory was one point above the team from the University oi Cincinnati. Scores of the leading teams follow:Carnegie Institute of Tech._:3541University of Cincinnati----------3548Oregon Agricultural College3543University of Alabama-----------3538
University, of Kansas-----f-------3484The match is-open to all of the collegiate Engineer units in the United States and is sponsored by the American Military Engineers 
of which Brigadier General Dawes 
is the president.The society presents to the winning team a beautiful trophy which 
has been sent here by the University of Kansas, the previous victor. In addition, each of the men of the winning team is presented with a handsome engraved medal. The high man on the Carnegie team was Leo Kasehagen III, this years varsity captain, who was followed closely by A. M. Fisher, last years varsity captain. A list of-the team with- the scores 
follows':Name TotaJLeo Kasehagen-----------------.-----365A. M. Fisher (Captain).-------364J. L. Stine ----------------------------360C. H. Wcatherell___-------358
R. E. Bayne -------------------------355A Anderson--------------------------35aW D. Bronson___________351G. W. Fisher_______________ 349
D .P. Cole_____-____________348B. R. Auld---------------------------344It will be noticed that the scoresare almost uniform, there being a (Continued on Page 2)
Popular Vote On Costume Design: To Determine Winner of Prize Competition
Printins: DepartmentWins National Prize
The Department of Printing of Carnegie Tech has received from the employing Bookbinders of America an autographed copy of William Dana Orcutts The Kingdom of Books. This book was presented to the department as the first prize in a contest for bookbinders held in Boston last month.Mr. Fred J. Hartman, Director of Education of the United Typ- othetor of America recently visited the Department of Printing at C. I. T. Mr. Hartman, who was for a number of years assistant to President Baker is arranging a series of lectures on Printing to- be given at Carnegie Tech.
Last Friday the Printing Department received a donation from the Mergenthaler Linotype Company of a series of Granjon matrices. The series runs from eight to eighteen point. The faces of these matrices are characteristic of the 
Renaissance and were originally designed and cut by Claud Gara- mond. They were recently adapted to the Linotype, by George W. Jones, a prominent printer who holds a very influential position with the British Linotype, Limited, a subsidiary of the Mergenthaler Linotype Co. Mr. Tones interest in the unique -work of the Laboratory Press of Carnegie Tech and his visit to the Printing department in the fall of 1927 was principally responsible for this donation.
This new type face is one of the most versatile created in many years and has put a working bon!.- in the.: hands of. the Printing department, which has hitherto been (Continued on Page 2)
The Committee of the Arts Ball announces an Arts Ball party, which is to be held in the Exhibition room of the College oi Fine Arts at 4:30 o'clock ort' the afternoon oi Dccem- he. 7.
The purpose of this party is to entourage the introduction of students in Arts to each other and Lo vote which is to receive a prize of $5 for the best suggestion. Every one s encouraged to present a design lor the costume and the winner wili be decided upon by a popular vote oi 
every one present. Refreshments and entertainment will be offered and everything will be free. Every Art student is invited. The prize for the best design is a..donation by Dean tCeeble, wno is also donating two Ire1- tickets to the holders of the two iucky numbers drawn in a raffle.Other committee-men report that their departments arc progressing favorablyshowing :hat.a large number of students is anxious for the Ball. The treasurer reports that tickets are going good and says that the next payment of one dollar is due by the fourteenth of December, after which a 25 cent fine will be imposed for late payment. The first payment of one dollar waj due last Friday, but is still payable with the addition of 25 cents for the late payment fee.
Arrangements are being made with the following nationally known orchestras: Ted Weems, Guy Lun-bardo, Fletcher Henderson, The Virginia Ramblers. The contract has not been let, but it will probably be one of the named orchestras. Music for the Arts Ball show is being written and Walter Sickler announces 
that he has already completed some of the many pieces. Rehearsal will begin immediately  some snappy 
number will constitute the early preliminary role.
For the .benefit of .students in doubt as to the eligibility requirements for the Arts Ball, the following will apply. The student must have been in attendance at Arts school, day or night for a period of one _year. Further information regarding the ball may be obtained from Sidney Warner, at 4501 Bayard street. Telephone, -Mayflower 3580.
Pleasure Gardens
Continues This Week
Pleasure Gardens, by Beatrice Mayor will continue until Wednesday, November 28, and will resume for the two days immediately following the Thanksgiving recess. 
Monday and Tuesday evenings, December 3 and 4. This production of the Drama Department began Thursday evening, November 22, and had only one matinee, on the Friday following the opening night.-The cast includes Jack Woslley, Garland Kerr, Margaret Croissant, Florence Wakefield, Thomas Fisher, Annabel Kempton, William Johns, Kathryn Syebold, Lewis Harr, Helen Tenney,'Matilda Body- comb, Burtt McKee, Jr.. Irene Ted- row* Gladys Abbaticchic, Eunice Hill Arne Bowson, Arriminta Grelly, Helen Jacobs, Tressie McCann, Pauling Baversmith. Freda Cazen, and Ruth Bell. "Pleasure Gardens* is staged by Theodore Viehman. Frank Stout is the scenic director.
The Drama Department put on an elaborate pageant to entertain the Coal Conference delegates last Wednesday evening in the gym. The pageant was written by one of the students of the Drama Department and dealt with . the ' freeing of the four daughters of Old King Coal. -The subject, of course, was designed to be in kecp- ng with the conferences topic of discussion. The various characters symbolized medicine, dye, perfume 
science, etc., many subjects which modern thought and experiments have considered. The pageant included dancing by members of the Drama- Department and music by the Music Department. The entire production lasted fifteen minuter.
Announce P. Q. Ratings 
Of Campus Organizations
Sororities, Fraternities and Mens and Womens Dormitories Are Included In List
The scholarship ratings of the Carnegie fraternities and sororities, with the ratings- of both the mens and women's dormitories for the school year of 1927-28, were announced this morning by the Dean of Men and the Dean of Women at the annual Carnegie Day exercises held in the Carnegie Music Hall. Anxiously, awaited for many weeks and the object of much conjecture on the part of the organizations concerned, -he P. Q.' ratings cxcited no little interest.One noticeable feature of the fraternity scores was the comparatively wide dispersion at the top of the column, i:. sharp contrast with the-close results of last year when the first few fraternities were within small decimals of each other. A number of alterations in the order of listing will be noticed when compared with the ratings of the 
> t-a- 1926-27.Another item of interest is the passing of the Womens Dormi
tory Scholarship Cup from the icalm of Forbes Hall to the do- ir ain of Elm Hall. There is much loser point competition among the womens, organizations this year than among the mens, where the dispersion is much more pro
nounced.The Fraternity scholastic ratings 
arc as follov/s:1. Beta Sigma Rho-----------------3.8452. Delta Mu ---------------------3.725
3. Delta Upsilon ----- 3.6604. Beta Thcta . PL-------- 3.626
5. Alpha Sigma PhLu.--------- 3 5856. Sigma Nu ______________3.545
7. Pi Kappa Alpha_________3 5188. Phi Kappa _____________3.519. Kappa Sigma __________3.479
10. Sigma Alpha Epsilon___3.45811. Delta Tau Delta...............3.42712. Kappa Sigma Rho----------3.42513. Thcta Xi ......................... 338814. Phi Kappa Psi__l______3 36
15. Delta Phi Delta_________3.34510. Phi Sigma Kappa_______3.214
17 Sigma Plii Epsilon______ 3.205.18. Alpha Tau Omega______3.20
(Continued on page 2)
Princeton Professor
To Speak At Carnegie
Frank Jewett Mather, Jr., teacher, art critic, and author, will speak on tfie Carnegie International this evening, in , the Carnegie Lecture Hall. His subject will be Some Aspects of the Exhibition.The talk will be the sixth and last in the series of Tueslay evening lectures on the present International.Mr. Mather is the Marquand of art and archaelogy at Princeton and the director of: the University Art Museum at Princeton. He is one of the best known authorities and critics on art in this country. He was born at Deep River, Conn., in 1863. He studied at Williams college and Johns Hopkins and completed his education at the University of Berlin and the Ecole des Hautes Etudes, Paris. From 1893 to 1900 he was instructor. o Roman languages at Williams college. He was an editorial writer on the New York Evening Post and assistant editor of The Nation from 1905 to 1906, and from 1910 to 1911. Professor Math r is the author of ^Continued on Page 2)
A. A. HAMERSCHLAG
Coal Co fe ence Sessions 
Attended by 1151 Delegates 
Representing 20 Countries
Research Needed, Coal Demand To 
Grow, Says President Baker As Discussions Eind.:
The most important result, 
said President Baker in a statement at the close'oi the Second inter- national Conference/. Oil- Bituminous Coal, "is that it has set. people thinking. Vve, ot course, hope and believe that many of the papers 
that have been presented contain ideas that can be put to practical 
use in our counuy, and in the Pittsburgh district, in the near future. uiiier addresses may have L.-eated' oi. questions which have merely theoretical vij.lue. But the American coal men have had a glimpse' of a vast amount of very ihougnlful research work that is being , carried ' on ' throughout the woilu. They have come away from the Coal Conterence with greater icspect for science and with the 
i'celing that' they can not afford to ignore research in making plans 
ior l.iC luture ox'their, industry.The Conference has shown, said Dr. Baker, that coal is becoming more important cli'emically, and that if there was a falling off in the consumption of coal for certain purposes there was also likely to be an increased demand for it as new industries are developed.".The gathering together of so many distinguished foreign scientists must result in mutual benefit, continued President Baker.Another result of the Confer
ence is. the clear need of'a research laboratory for the study of coal. Pittsburgh is the logical place for the establishment of such a laboratory, and I am hoping that means can be found which will permit the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology to undertake a program oi rcscarch on a subject which is of the greatest importance to the industrial life of Pittsburgh, name
ly, bituminous coal.For the. present I am unable to make any definite announcement about future coal conferences, but the success of this meeting has been so pronounced that it would seem to be the natural thing for the Carnegie Institute of Technology to organize a similar meet(Continucd on Page 2)
CARNEGIE DAY PROGRAM DELAYS ISSUE OF TARTAN
Contrary to the former custom of distributing the Tartan at the regular hour on Carnegie Day, the paper was withheld until after the completion of the exercises today. This procedure was adopted to 
avoid the necessity of the circulation departments missing the exercises, as well as to prevent the 
difficulties tha,t might result if the Tarton were distributed at the 
usual hour in the crowded Music Hall.
Fritz The Gardener Is Interviewed,
Thinks Carnegie Tech Is Best Yet
"Keep off the grass. .No, it isnt a sign nor .yet. a. slogan, its simply a byword among Carnegie students. If you havent been. told to "Keep off the grass by that personage who is anywhere and everywhere about the Carnegi Campus, you have been denied a great pleasure, for you havent met Fritz. Who is "Fritz? He is that indisp'cnsiblc person wlm, by his artistic gardening, keeps our campus 'looking so very attractive. To him we are indebted for Carnegies. well-kept lawns and .shrubbery.
When ked his official capacity Fritz replies, "Oh, I do chust anything that comes, along the pike. And indeed, he does anything from cementing in No Parking signs, to nlanning a bed of shrubbery. Also, he avers that he likes his job, for gardening was the trade he learned in his youth. He- takes a great pride in his work on the Carnegie campus. No doubt the students will agree that
tins pride is a justifiable one."britz was not born in; this country. Some 72 years ago, he opened his eyes for the first time in the Rhine Valley and for the next 27 years kept his watch on the Rhine, he admits with a chuckle. In 1883, he emigrated to this, country, and although he still has the "Fatherland in his heart, lie is a staunch American. When interrogated as to with whom he sympathized during the great war of a decade ago he made answer, "Our side, of course. 1 am American. I haf my papers and I haf a thousands dollars Liberty loan I chust stick right here, He . did. And now we have him at Carnegie.
Fritz is married and has one son. The son, however, is not following his fathers profession. He is, strangely]' enough, a musician, and is skilled in both . piano and organ technique. Not without reason, (Continued on Page 2)
Mrs. Arthur Hamerschlag 
Was Guest of Honor 
At Ceremony
HON. W. B. McCRACKEN
PRINCIPAL SPEAKER
Scholarship Cups Were Awardcfl To Fraternities, Sororities And Dormitories
At the Carnegie Day exorcises, held this inoruing in the Music Hall, 
the Hamerschlag Memorial- Tablet was unveiled , by Mr. Frederick P. lveppcl of New York. Mr. Keppel, president of the Carnegie  Corpora- tion of. New- York, was a personal mend of Carnegie's first president, and at that time was dean of ihe 
Lollege of Columbia University. The 
tablet was designed by Berthold Nor- bel, former head of the Carnegie sculpture department. It- is bronze set m marble, showing a profile of Mr. Hamerschlag done inbas relief. It will be placed, on the north. wall of the Administration building, west of the Registrar's office.-
Mrs. Arthur Arton Hamerschlag, wile ot- Carnegies first president, came from New York to attend the exercises, and was the 0uest of honor 
at the unveiling of (lie  tablet inmemory of her husband. '
Ihe speaker at the exercises was the Hon. William B. McCracken, a graduate of the University of Chi
cago, where he received a Ph.B. decree :n 19U7, and lormeriy assistant attorney general of the state ofIllinois'.
Scholarship cups, awarded annually to the fraternity, sorority, and dormitory ranking highest scholastically the previous year, were presented to 
representatives of the organizations concerned. Dean Tarbell made the presentation of the fraternity and dormitory cups. The'cup to the winning sorority was presented by Dean Green.
Alpha Tau, Industries honorary, 
called a Tew who ranked high imscholarslup and activities last year, the men arc members of the junior and senior classcs.
Scholarship holders from all four schools marchcd in a body to the Music Hall, and sat in a reserved section. Ihe names' of the holders 
together with the donors oi the respective scholarships were included in the program. Classes in all schools were dismissed from 10:20 to 1:30 to enable the students to attend the exercises. The parade to the Music Hall was led by the Kiltie Band, followed by the faculty, seniors, juniors, sophomores and freshmen marching in the rdcr named.
The musical, program was arranged by the Carnegie Department of Music, under the direction of Professor J. Vic OBrien. The program was as follows:Organ Prelude
Procession March in E-flat_____
Guirand Matthew FreyOrchestra .
"Walthers Preisleid Meistersingerfrom Die Wagner(Under direction of Irof. OBrien.) Orchestra.
March Militaire____________
Schubert DamroschOrgan Postludc 
"Hallelujah Chorus
Handcl-Gaul
Social Work Dept, to Give 
Xmas Party For Children
On Wednesday, December 12, the junior and senior girls of tile Social Work Department will hold their annual Christmas Party for the Children of Pittsburgh Welfare clubs. The party is to be held in the new Recreation Hall of Margaret Morrison, which will be charmingly decorated for the occasion. As-,usual the party will be held a few days after Dr. Bakers party for . children in order that the same decorations inay be used for both. According to present plans, some such theme as The Toy Shop or Iceland will be carried out in the decorations and entertainment. To furnish a true Christmas, there will be not only a large Christmas tree with its customary ornamentation oi icicles, but a real Santa Claus to amuse the children.The various features of the party have been ' intrusted to the club leaders, under the direction of Kay ODonnell; general chairman for the party. The following girls arc working on plans for the party: Rosalie Miller, decorations; Rose Turner,' program'; Agnes Power, finance; Emma Garvey, refresh- (Continued on page 2)
MONSTER PEP RALLY HELD IN GYM LAST THURSDAY
One of the biggest rallies ever held at Carnegie Tech was held last Thursday in the gym. The long list of speakers included President Baker, John L. Porter, F. J. Lanahana, Harry Keck, sport editor of- the Sun-Telegraph; Captain Harpster, and Coach. Bob Waddell. Bob Wood introduced the speakers. while Bell led a cheer for each speaker immediately after their talk. A1 Minctti managed to get there in. time to lead a big Institute yell. The Kiltie Band played . several numbers during the long program which lasted for an 
hour and a half. Several newspaper pictures were taken of the, large crowd of students who crowded1 the gym in order to show the team that they were "behind them.

---------------------------------------------------

 THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVMBER 27, lwtf.
ALUMNI NEWS
Million Dollar Fund To Be 
Raised By A.A.U. Women
The American Association oi 
University Women undertook a most important picce oi work this year when it launched a campaign 
to raise a million dollars to endow more fellowships for women,That the need for more fellowships exists is evident, Last year one hundred and sixty-six women applied for the twelve fellowships [he. Association administered and awarded. One, the International Fellowship which carries y/iU) it Lite advantage of study at any European university, was the goal of sixty-one women, and only one could have ill Colleges and co
educational inptitutions alj dyer the country are seeking for highly ! nullified wonjen lo fill vacancies on their professorial staffs,Although tjie campaign has scarcely begun, over three hundred thousand dollars has been pledged 
toward.; the fund, if; you are'interested in this sub-' jict, write to the Million Dollar* 
I'ellowship Fund Office, of the American Association, of University 
Wpnicn, at the National Mcad- ijuarters, 1634 Eye Street, Norlh- \vesl, Washington, P, C and we will gladly furnish further information.
W. C, PETTIT, PITT EDITOR, COMMENTS ON EXCHANGE
(Continued from Page 1)
probabjy has npver 'before beet] tried anywhere,Giving as it docs the staff members an insight into the workings of the neighboring schools cam pus aild the cjiance to understand new problems connected with journalism, the exchange of [staffs will provide a change which will be welcomed. by the journalists of each institution.(Wl)iie the major features of each paper will remain the same more or lcs> the content of feature columns find news sections will reflect a different angle' as treated by the exchange staffs. No at? tempt will be made to rearrange drastically the makeup of the papers in accordance with the past experience of the visiting news staff. The exchange will devolve ihost upon the ability of reporters to locate and cover the news sources of a more or less unfamiliar campus.Although the exchange ,of staffs S made with the-purpose of testing the ability or efficiency of each paper's editorial staff, it will tend to unite more closely the interest of one school with that, of the other. Two most effective organic 
zillions of both campuses will gain an insight into the current news of the two schools rmd thereby be in a position to understand coin1 mon problems.The proposed exchange meets with my hearty approval. Tho eimp pi on practice has beep to c?c change football and other rivalries in athletics. U is quite feasible to flX.cbnnpo interests and friendships of other aeljvitios In much the same fashion, The stuff exchange 
is something new in the field of upllr-ge journalism,WILLIAM C. PETTIT, Editor'ln-Chlef;The Pitt Weekly,
COAL CONKERI5NCE SESSIONS
(Continued from Pag 1)
injj in the course of the next two or 111 roe years. We shall reach a decision in this matter before ihti md of the current ucadonilc year and will then make a public, announcement."
The Confercneo drew to a close Saturday afternoon. It hud been cciied together by President Baker and was formally opened Monday 
morning. Scientists and experts from distant places as well as many from the immediate neighborhood were present. Over one thousand delegates were registered 
during the week. They represented 51 American institutions of learning, 16 foreign colleges and universities and numerous national and 
international societies devoted to A'cieuce and engineering.
The general sessions of the Conference were held in the Carnegie Mu,sie Hall, but Sections devoted to specialized interests were gathered together in the Lecture Iiall, Faculty Club Room and Carnegie 
Union. The proceedings of the conference are to be published in detail and are to include charts 
and diagrams which were used for demonstration purposes,
CARNNEGIE GRAPHICA TO CHANGE ORGANIZATION
(Continued from Page 1)
me-aps of awards for accomplishments,
The committee has issued a warning to all upper classmen in the department who have, not been approached by officers of the Graphica concerning membership, that if they arc not' made members by December 1, they will 
lose advanced standing privileges and will thus have to pay initiation fees, if elected to membership by the Graphica.
Graphica publishes COPY, a four- pajje pamphlet, every other Fri, day.
Anonymous Poet Sends 
Contribution to Tartan
Following the defeat of, Notre 
Dame by Carnegie an anonymous 
letter was found in the Tartan 
office, In the envelope was found 
a poem dedicated to our viclory 
over Notre Damo, Being a very 
good poem conccrning- a very 
pleasing subject:  (in our estima
tion) we take great pleasure in printing this poem.All attenlpts to disclose the identity of the author, or poet, failed. Wc can tell you only that his name is "Si" rid that he was inspired somewhere near Chicago.
THE SCOTCH AND IRISH
Oh, the Irishmen o' the Hoosier StateJ-Ja a foptball team that's proven great;
A right gud team 0 brawn anbrainsHa earned them mony a ride on
trains.  _They ha', turned in mony a victory heat At home for years they ha npcr been beat;An so they decide to hold anaffairThey think, at their REP the $cots will scare,
Oh, the Scotties put''on their Kilties bestTo call on tju*. Ipshers in the West,The day is bad wi a cloudy sky But the Scots march on with spirits high.
The Irish are yellin as hard as they canWhile the Tartans are singin the song o' the Clan,"The Scotties arc coinin,' Hooray, HoorayTo give the Irish a heatin' today.!
The Irish ha taken the ball' to kick,The Scptties are goin to pull a 
trick;'Twas gud for a score and now for sonic more,
'Twould seem that they arc out  for gore.The Irish ha' t^ken the ball an' run,But Wait! The Scots ha' only begun;Another Plaid score I Tis plain to be seen,Tjie Irishmen arc a wee bit green.
Tho Scots are up an at, it again, Tholr tricks Ihe Irishmen dinrip ken.The Irish subs run in an out. They'll sure, got mixed wiout. a doubt.A touchdown is made by those Irish lads;They're fightin' an' scrapRip' just like their Dads.'Bui; look at those Kilties flashin' a rou n'An' how those Irish are hillin the groun.
Oil Mon, Oh Mon, do look at that toss I This lime it. is the fourth to cross The goal line of Ihe mighty four Who here had romped in days o' yore,Tis plain enough, the Scotchman's layAn' noo we'll hear the Bag*pipesplay * , The Scottics are cornin', Hop ray, lloorayFor sure) enough wc ha' won to- day,
Fightin' for the Glory of Carnegie, "Si."
No vein her IH, 1928,
SOCIAL WORK DEPARTMENT TO GIVE PARTY
(Continued from Page 1)
incuts, and Isabelle Warner, invitations,
Invitations have already been sent to Dean Green and Director Breed, and to the faculty of the Social Work Department.
ANNOUNCE "P.Q. RATINGS
(Continued from Page 1)
The scholastic ratings of theMens Dormitories for the sameyear are:Henderson Hall -------------------3.75McGill Hall__u_._________ 3.59Scobcll Hall _______________ 3,58Boss Hall _________________3.47
Welch Hall ...............................3.29
The Scholarship Cup ratings of the Womens Dormitories for the year 1927-28 follow:1. Elm Hall_________ 4.28
2. Forbes Hall -____,______4,253. Mellon Hall ____________ 4.234. Sycamore Hall _______3,895. Walnut Hall ____________3,88
6. Laurel Hall ____________3.S4
7. Birch Hall .........................3.77S. Oak Hall ______________3.769. Cypress Hall .....................3.70
10. Hawthorne Hall _______3.57
11. Spruce Hall____________33512. Linde Hull ____________ 3,32
13. Magnolia Hall 3,26
Ihe Scholarship Cup 'ratings pf the Sororities of the College of Fine Arts for last year are:
Alpha -Kappa Psi,............. 4,02Beetle ........................................ 4,01Beta Pi ......................................3.93
Gamma Gamma G anima______J.S4
BropbecyOn some rainy day, you will turn 
down your hat and thank God 
for John Hancock,
CARNE GIDYXSIME UHLNSITOor HD-HIB PSQSM>YD>-C
Carnegie Graduates May 
Win French Scholarships
The Institute of International 
Education, New York City, which 
administers the American Field 
Scrvice Fellowships in French Uni
versities, announces that a limited 
number of fellowships for advanced 
study in France will bp awarded 
for the year 1929r30. Each wi|l 
carry a stipend of $1,200 and will 
be tenable for one year, with pos
sibility for renewal a second year 
if circumstances arc favorable.
Fellowships arc offered in the 
follpwing field of study:
Agriculture, Anthropology, Arch
aeology and History of Art, Archi
tecture, Astronomy, Biology, Bot
any, Chemistry, Classical Lan
guages and Literature, Criminology, 
Economics, Education, E 11 g 1 i S h 
Language and Literature, Geogra
phy, Geology, History, Law, Mathe
matics, Mcdjcine and Surgery, Ori
ental Languages and Literature, 
Philosophy, Physics, Political Sci
ences and International Law, Psy1- 
chology, Religion, Romance Lan
guages and Literature, Semitic Lan
guages and Literature, Slavic Languages and Literature, Sociology, Zoology,The fellowships arc open only to men, anrl any candidate (a) Must be a citizen of tlje United States or of one of the United States possessions.(b) Must at the time of making the application be a graduate of a college of recognized standing or of a professional school requiring three years of study fqr a degree; or, if nol; qualified in either of these ways, must; be 24 years of age and must have spent five years 
in work requiring high technical skill.(c) Must be of good moral character and intellectual ability, and pf suitable personal qualities.(d) Must'have a practical ability to use French books, both in general subjects and jn his own special field, and he able to speak French and understand lectures delivered in French.
11| the absence of an absolute rule as to age, preference will in all cases be glvcp to candidates between the ages of twenty and thirty years.Applications must be received at the . officc of the Institute of International Education not later than January 1, 1929. Full information 
and application blanks may be obtained from Archie M. Pa|mci;,' Assistant Director, Institute of Inter
national Education, 2 West Forty lifh street, New York, N. Y.The following awards of Fellowships for the year 1928-^29 have been made:
William T. Bandy, Jr., assistant in French at . the University ofLllinois; B.A., M.A. Vanderbilt University, also studied at; tin-. Unir versity of Paris; will work In the field of Romance Languages and Literature under the direction of Professor Baldensporger at; Ihe 
University of Paris /or doctoral de I'Universite de Pa rig on LEvolu- lion de |a Critique Bail elairiennc,Albert E. Blunih.org, Graduate a| Yale University;,A.Johns Hopkins 'University; will continue work begun at Yule University on tipi historv and philosophy of science.William G. Crane, instructor in English at: the University of Cincinnati; B.A., M.A., State University of Iowa; will study English literature of the Rcnriaissauce arid ils Continental background under 
Professor Fcuillcrat at the Univer sity of Rennes.
Grayson L. Kirk, assistant ii Political Science at the University of ^Wisconsin; A.B., A.M., Clark University; will make a study of French Colonial and Domestic Administration at the Ecolc Libre des Sciences Politiques in Paris.George S. Lane, Amcrican-Scandinavian Foundation Fellow' at the University of Iceland; B.A., M.A. State University of Iowa; will study comparative philolpgy under Professor Mciljct and will work in Sanskrit and Celtic.Milton Lowpngtein, graduate stu
dent at New York University; A.B. Columbia University, also- studied at the University of Paris and the Fontainebleau School of Fine Arts; will complete a treatise op Monastic Romanesque architecture of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.Cornwell B, Rogers, graduate 
stude.nt and instructor in History at Yale University; A.B., Princeton University; M.A,, Columbia University, also studied' at Harvard University and the University of 
Grenoble; will do historical research in the period of the French Revolution.Clifford N. Wall, instructor in Physics at the University of Illinois; B.A./ M.S,, Ph.D., University of lllinois; also studied at Northwestern College and Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Arts Balt Committee
Invite Alumni To Ball
The Arts Ball Committee wishes 
to inform all Arts School Alumni 
that they are cordially invited to 
attend the hall,
One certain restriction, which 
has been undesirable to the Alumni, 
lias been lifted. Any Alumnus, who 
has ever been a registered strident 
in the College of Fine Arts for 
the period of one eoljege year has 
the privilege of bringing anyone, 
he or she desjrc6, so long as they 
do not bring sonic one who is at 
present registered in any college 
other than the College of Fine 
Arts.
The committee reports that all 
plans are being developed and 
nothing is being helji up for moiiey, 
although they arc expecting an 
early response. The Arts Ball Is 
well known to Alumni which means 
that you need not have a descrip
tion of it.
All Alumni interested in attending should communicate, as soon as possible, with Sidney Warner, Secretary of Arts Ball, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
CARNIEGIE DAY BRINGSTHOUGHTS OF FOUNDER
(Continued -from Page 1)
anxious to . sec w'hat sort of material they were going to work with, and pupils, to see whether their material would work. All fried to make the venture go."
Those fotball men who look at us appealingly from pictures taken 'way back ip the 'six's" and "sevens1' certainly must have provided themselves with some of that 
spirit which their founder possessed. Their faces have 011 them expressions which we do not see <:n football ipep today. And how 
the students must have cheered tbnr, pp at the first Pitt garap-r- ycs, students did cheer then.An excellent description of the map wjio made all this ppssible is given by Mr. Follows, as he 
describes the first Founders Day, 
at which - representatives from all over the world were present"As he stood there; after we had been persuaded to stop cheering him a welcome, he was mighty good to look at. We had already peep close enough to him to sec I.is face, to mark its ruddy glow of health and good 'humor, his clear, blue eye, wliite hair and 
beaming smile; and. as he stood bc<- fore us now, wc knew that! that smile was lighting up. Whop he Spoke lie just "talked" t<- us,, and he looked what he wasa delighted and delightful old gentleman. He could not realize, lie said, that it was lie who was giving all this to Pittsburgh arid her people, It was all too gorgeous and wonderfulbeyond anything he.had ever 
dreamed of, and he had' had no 
part in it." IThat was how lie fell. Mrs. Carnegie _ had told him that if 
made her' think of Aladdin and his Wonderful Lamp. 'Yes,' he replied, 'but 1 didn't even have the pleasure 
of rubbing thc 'amp. All I did was to sign a cheek for it,' His secrctaiy, Mr, Frank, had told him 
that instead Of having so many millions in the bank, he now had so many, and it didnt make any difference. He had been told that lie owned gome mountains ill Scotland, around about Skibo. Yes, but ihcn, you know, a, man can not own a mountain.' Then he pushed ins spectacles up to his forehead and beamed on us and crackcd a joke with us, turned r,o his guests behind him and 
clacked a joke with them. And so, in this simple, human, kindly way, he gave us the new Institute 
and Carnegie."It is this mans birthday that we arc celebrating today, Let us gee that the entire Spirit of Car
negie is present.
PRINTING DEPARTMENT
A Business Advantage
Thc young man or woman who can claim a banking councction with a well-es
tablished financial concern, will find it a very ' definite advantage in his business life. ' There is no better time to make such a connection than now.
WhIU yon aro In collega, 
open an nccount nt the Mel
lon National Bank. You may 
ho assured of our person! 
interest Jn your financial af
fair*. and our irllUnKncs.i 
to help you with any prob1cm that may arltc.
Mellon Monal Bank
Pittskfcih.Pa.
1
(Continued from Page 1)
lacking for instructional purposes. This new series is valued at S300.Although there is 110 proof of] it, the department' feels that: the visit Mr. Harry L. Gage made to the department about a week ago expedited the shipment of these 
matrices. Mr. Gage is Assistant Director of Linotype typography and is., connected with the Bartlett Qrr Press.Due to the International Coal Conference held last week, the Printing department has been unusually busy turning out a large amount of production including a preliminary announcement of the conference, the official announcement of the conference, letterheads and envelopes, bulletin board signs, table numbers, and the seating list 
of the dinner held for the foreign delegates.
CARNEGIE DOLLAR DAY 
TODAY. NOVEMBER 27
Alumni contributions for Carnegie 
Dollar Day are being received stead
ily, but slowly, at the. Alumni officc. 
Tins  is an opportunity which apy 
loyal alumnus will not let pass by.
Thc Dollar Day campaign is not, 
however, limited alone to Alumni. 
Faculty members, students, and Car
negie friends are urged to support 
the issue. Each dollar contributed 
now will help to swell 1 the fund, 
which'i if it amounts to $4,000,000. by 
1946, will, with its interest, be 
doubled that year.
This should not be a difficult goal 
to attain considering thc successful 
backing that Carnegie affairs have 
always enjoyed, And more, a suc
cessful final campaign will mean an 
aggregate of $12,000,000 in endow-? 
jpent for Carnegie Tech.
Send in at once to the Alumni 
office, your contribution to the 1928- 
1929 Dollar Day fund. The follow)- 
ing have sent in their checks during 
the past week:
Gertrude M- Baton, M22.
E. E. Hawkins, I.
D. D. Reed, 117.
Frank J. Nugent, I. .
W. Y. Coken, A,
L. W. Walker, I20.
C. L, Sayre, E,
G. R. Holmes, I.
T. G. Bixler, I.
Kenneth J. Stickrath, 1. 
J. B. Shumaker, E.
G. L. liurgess, ElO.Halsey R. Jones, A,F. B. Clinton, A.L. E, Smith, L'26,Margaret C. Benner, M'09.Dean Tarbell.J. C. Hobbs, ElO.Norwood Robeson, A24.Mrs. Lorena B. Wood.Harry A. Krause, I09.Mary M. Young, Ai' 19,George E. Brezu, 1'23.Samuel Horelick, E12.C. A. Mowrey, A,Helen K. Vernon, M23.Katherine S. Lynch, Mll.Mrs. D. P. Bennett, A'19.R. L. Abel, E22.George Cowperthwait, I.Ferdinand Aiazotti, Jr., 127.H. G, Lamkcr, Jt12.Walter C. Urling, E.George Adcrhold, 1'23,
 Paul D, Good, 121.Alexander Zerin, 1'24. L'laiencc Overeml, E..C. F. Johnson, ii2.J. O. Kiehl, A,Frank L. Wagner, E26.Edward Wcndcls, Jr I.
M, L, Fisher, E23.T. G. English, HO.L, W, Mclntyrc, E;
L, R. Foust, E13. j, J. Lc.es, A,
C, Mcinncs, I!27.Stanley \V, Kothe, I22.
A. K. Anderson, M28.Mrs. 'John Barker, M24,C. W, Marlatt, 1.M. G. McCarncy, I23.
O. A. Pluskey, E,Charles R, Kruimnel, I.Leora P. Ehpi, M27,B. R, Biever, 1 '24,
A, M. Pringle, I17.AI. Ga/.zo, J24,Philip p. Marshall, E'20.Raymond G. |3ro\vnstein, E28, 
John G. McRae, E21.William P. Wright, E.U. L. Fisher, Fll.H, . R. Little, EM 5.C. H. Schultz, ElO.Paul V, Shaver, E.E. R. Patton, E24.Stephen E. Kovak, Jr., I23,F. A. Staley, E20,E. B. Bruce, I.Teresa V. Dempsey, A'27.A. M. Cooper, E.William S. Graw, E16.Florence M. Johnston, M24.D. D. Foster, 125.
CARNEGOIE ENTERS
(Continued from Page 1)|
rak, as the prize song. "Dear Old Tech will be thc college song used by the Carnegie Glee Club. Mr. Gaul has not as yet chosen a selection suitable for thc choice 
song. . w .In preparation for a trip next spring a program is being outlined which will be, used for all appearances, It will include a male quartet, vocal and instrumental .solos, and . other features, all combined by means of a dramatic ehauve sottris to form a continuous and coherent' program.
PRINCETON PROFESSORIS TO SPEAK
(Continued, from Page 1)
several books on painting, including "Estimates in Art," "/V History of 
Italian Painting, Modern Painting," and The American Spirit in Art."The lecture on Tuesday evening is free. The public is invited,
College JewelrySeal StationeryPennants
C. M. STAUFT
3806 FORBES STREET
Loose Leaf Notebooks and General Students Supplies
Eft#
All Makes oi Typewriters, New and Used 
SoldRentedRepaired
VHX- .R-- ,TNEoXR-EX UH1B GIM1
Royal Portable DistributorsATLANTIC 8320 
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg. Branch Store
624 LIBERTY AVE. 42S FOURTH AVE.
BOB ZUPPKE ASKS HOWHARD IS FOOTBALL?"Carnegie Tech Student 
Paints Fine Portrait
Was the old game, harder on 
the players?" asks Bob Zuppke of 
Illinois in his article, "How Hard 
Is Football?" From everything I I 
have heard about it from old-time 
coaches and players, there is po 
doubt but that it was. Can you 
imagine a football team of today ! 
packing up its equipment, and gayly starting, off Oil a trip to play six games in eight days? it hardly seems possible that this ever copid have happened,- yet back in 1892 Illinois squad actually played this schedule. This was not a steady diet, blit I mention it to/show that they did play longer, more arduous schedules in thc olden days. Today the nupiber of games played during a season is limited to eight, with rare exceptions.Football is not as hard today because the coaches have more ex- periepec than their predecessors. A coach, first of all, is a pedagogue. He is a goad coach because lie has the ability to judge the amount pf work and rest his players require, rather than because lie is an adept in dividing plays and drilling his players in the fundamentals of the game. He knows better than to let his playiirs batter each othen. into ipsepsibility; his goal is not to develop idiots. He knows, that all of the energy of his players must not be used up by muscle, that some must be left for the brain. Football today is easier on the players; the practice hours are shorter, and shorter hours reduce the possibility of ipental and phys-^ ical fatjgue. The rest periods are more frequent.
Some player may squawk against the dullness and the, hardships of football, practice because his vanity has been hurt by his failure to do /we!! in thc sport, or perhaps he has played pp a losing team. There is always drudgery, if we nuist use the term, in preparing yourself to play any game. Nothing- in life is gained which is worth while without hard, work and a certain amount of sacrifice. Football will always be too hard for some boys who have been reared in a soft, pampered .environment, with plenty of money to spend arid cars to drive, which assure fhpm of feminine company. olf_ is | more likely to appeal |o this class than football. Have you taken note of some of the panics - which arc bobbing up U1 the line-ups? The Raskowskis, the NowncK-s, thcTruskowskis? This Simply means that these first generation dependents pf the newer immigration coinq from rugged stock and less enervating' homes where existence is more of a struggle, where the coonskin coat and its implications arc as far away as Mars. .
Dont think of football as recreation or exercise, Zuppke continues. "It is only the old who talk about such things. In ' football, youth finds the safety valve for his spirit, Fpolball is more than a game; it is not a physical cxpresr sjoji, although |t,.is expressed physically. It is a symbol of sportsr man ship and it is virile drama."
HONORS WON BY ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS
(Continued from' Page 1)
receives first mention placed, the second first mention, and the third, mention, Other problems submitted are marked according to relar live merit. In this particular con- cours over five hundred plates were submitted.
CARNEGIE RIFLE TEAM
(Continued from Page 1)
difference of only 23 points between first and last place.The trophy, which is a bronze statue of a .pilgrim mounted on a white marble base, becomes the. permanent property of thc school winning it three times. This is the first win for Carnegi.c, although there are about three colleges who have similar bids for it.
MINING AND METALURGY BANQUET DATE CHANGED
The banquet which was to have been given by the students of thc 
Department of Mining and Metalurgv on Wednesday, November 21, has been postponed to Wednesday, December 12, according to Mr, Scott, in 
charge of arrangements. The reason given for the postponement was Uiar. thc activities of thc department due 
to the Second International Conference on Bituminous Coal, which is being held here during this week, 
conflicted with the original date.This function is one of several given by thc students of this department during the year and is social in its purpose.
Among thc most admired paintings in the All-American Art Ex
hibit in the celebrated Corcoran Galleries in Washington, D. C, is one portrait entitled "Alice, As visitors and residents of the na^ tioii's capital walk through thc Galleries they recognize names famous in American oaintings, but pf the portrait Aljce, all they pcr- ceivc is that it is youthful, fresh, captivating. Tjiey can not know that the modest signature^ Marcella Copies, is that of a 23 year old girl of 3242 Bccclnvpod Boulevard, Pittsburgh, and a former Carnegie Tccli girl.
Miss Copies, the daughter of thc 
late John 1' ponies, sclgcted as her subject a younger sister, Alice. It was the first task she undertook after her return from Europe last Spring. While there she studied for a part of the time in Bologna, Italy, under the famous Romagnoli.
Admirers do not know that this is the first painting she ever sent 
for admittancethe first of licrs tlmt has ever been placed before thc public eye.That, howcyer. Is just the situa^- lion, a very gratifying one to Miss Comes, who was determined to crash her way to painting fanip,and did it.To those who rcmeniber Mr. Conies, the success pf his daughter ill the field of art is not altogether surprising. Her father was one of 
Americas distinguished architects, having designed distinctive churches in many states, and particularly in Pittsburgh: St. Agues CatholicChurch, Fifth avenue and Robinson street. .
Previous to her study at Carnegie, Miss Copies had no training other than that of her own initiative. She is npw painting in her garreUstndio ip her hoiiie.  Pier next portrait will be that of Bobby Calcnsa, ihe youth who caddied for her at Schenley Golf Links all suriimer.
ROCKNF. CONDEMNS BETTING ON FOOTBALL GAMES
Every year we read articles about what a terrible thing football is; how it swallows up thousands of boys," says Knute Rocknc of Notre Dame in his article, ''Football Is Fun. Bpt these stories arc written by people who have never 
played football. Football is a lot of fun, but you have to hav.c the proper point of view to appreciate it. The people who take it too seriously are alumni and townspeople who bet. Regarding them I have po brief whatsoever."I remember one year when we played Indiana the score was ten to nothing in favor of Indiana through the third quarter. In the last quarter Notre Dame pulled a great comeback. As a result, Noire Damp wop thirteen to ten. I whistled gayly and allowed thc managers an extra dollar for dinner, Thats how good I felt. But lo, I found our townspeople and alumni who had bet on the gamc-r- and they had, all bet wed win by 
twenty-seven pointswere as sore as a boiled owl at me. No one lias any objection to friendly wagers made just in fun, but the big money wager is the chap I haye 
in mind. Big money will ruin college football if they are not stopped. I have a thick hide for this species of poor sport and the only regret I have is that they didnt lose more. The man who bets not only gets no fun out of it, but is a hindrance to_ the game as a clean sport and he is lacking in a .sense of humor, for every time he loses a bet lie wants to have the coach fired.
"Ill fact, the biggest blot , on the game is the alumni without a sense of humor and the fellow who insists on betting big money. Eliminate both of. these mutants and 
everybody connected with football will have a lot more fun."
SOPHOMORES HOLD~
CLASS DANCE
(Continued from Page 1)
were Mr. and Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Mr. and Mrs. Crandall, and Miss Ware.
Punch and refreshments were serv
ed during the  intermission,The committee is to be congratulated oil its efficient organization a'nd 
business like handling of all the details which go to make any such an affair a 'success or failure.The students from tlie four colleges who made up the committee were; Bernic Zeiher, chaii'man from Industries; .Stewart Montgomery and Dablcn . Ritchey from Arts; .Grace 
Borgerding and Sally Hall from Margaret .Morrison! John Boyle, and Jack Vonfeld from Engineering; George Nease and Edward OFlynn from Industries.
Merrick Announces
Employment Methods
Mr. F. A. Merrick, Vice-President and General Manager of thc West- inghouse Company, has recently announced thc methods which are 
used in selecting graduate students as employees in that company. According to Mr. Merrick no graduate is employed because he has been givep a degree by a ccrtain 
college, or entirelv on the basis of high scholastic standing or extensive participation in student activities which would suggest his being an all around active fellow. It is Ihe combination of the last two considerations that determine 
thc men to fill the jobs open in tlie company. 
These two considerations) Mr. Merrick says, arc not valued equally in selecting men. Each job has its definite requirements of thc man who is to take it over and the requirements of each job determine the proportioris with which each of the factors, scholarship and personality, all enter into the choosing of a man to fill it. The scholastic 
standing and the individual characteristics of the candidates for positions with the Westingho'usc Company are judged by the information given the companys representative by the faculty of the college and the individuals themselves. From this inforpiation the representative cap suggest the type of work in the Westingliouse Company for Which the graduates are best suited.
FRITZ, THE GARDENER
(Continued from Page 1)
therefore, does Fritz" take a pride ill his only offspring. "I haf tried/ he explains, "to gif him a good education. lie went through the Sehcnleys high school and study the music.
Fritzs chief diversions arc football and baseball, He has not missed a single one of Carnegies grid battles since the opening of this season. Contrary to popular opinion, however, Fritz would not like to be a cheer leader. His wife, he thinks, 
would object for .she does itt Care for football. Fritz" becomes yen animated when speaking of tjt ganics, Techs gopd team. We bea' em all. Well win next Saturda; 
top j We can beat anything th; comes along the pike, Now, Skjbo there's the spirit for you.
FUTURE OF SCIENCE
(Coptinucd from Page 1)
potatoes. Instead, lie will gro necessary compounds, such ; amino, acids apd cellulose.Mr. Slosson emphasized the kc> nctc of the entire Confereneihc importance of coal in tlie fu ure of sci.en,cp.. A Gpplpgiral-Sur. ,vey Commission reported that the 
reign of coal ' is half over. Ap- pther 250 years Avili end large Pennsylvania production. During this tinic, however, and before it 
bpconics necessary to search for substitutes, be believes tjiere are hundreds of by-products and mariy 
new uses to which' this black antique material will be put.
Sailors Beg 
Master Mariner 
for Favorite 
Pipe Tobacco
Malden, Mas. Larus &.Bro, Co. March 10,1928 Richmond, Va.Dear Sirs;I have been a Master Mariner for many years, and as a general rule all seafaring men smoke a pipe. I have tried about all the different brands of tobacco on the market, and in my estimation, there is not one make of tobacco that will compare with Edge- worth Slicef or a good, cool, long smoke. Saijors would come to ipe and say Capt., be sure to put in a good supply of Edgeworth when you fill up the canteen. That speaks for what tho average sailor thinks of Edgeworth. , I retired from the sea six years ago, and the largest grocery dealers in Boston keep me supplied with this wonderful smoke. I take great pleasure in boosting it to my friends.Very truly yours,(signed) Capt. C. E. Kenney j
Edgewortli
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Mah&eii (bmpunq Jfieatres
SCHENLEY
STAGE ATTRACTIONS 
Changed Twice a Week
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY
RICHARD DIX
in Moran of the Marines
FRIDAY-SATURDAY
LON GHANEY
in While the City Sleep
MONDAY-TUESDAY-WEDNESDAY
CLARA BOW 
Charles (Buddy) Rogers
m llfiiS
MANOR
WEDNESDAY
POLA NEGRI
in Loves of An ActressM
THURSDAY
Richard Barthelmess
in OUT OF THE RUINS
FRIDAY
WALLACE BEERY
in BEGGARS OF LIFE
S AT U RD A YM ATI N EE
Girl Shy Cowboy
SATURDAY EVENING
Charlie Murray 
in "THE HEAD MAN
HONDAY-TUESDAYClara Bow - Charles Rogers
in WINGS
SXEAMP
WEDNESDAY
BBE DANIELS
in TAKE ME HOME
THURSDAY
MMM rav
in Good Morning, Judge
FRIDAY
Beautiful Bat Dumb
SATURDAY
REX BELL
in Taking a Chance
MONDAY-TUESDAY
in Mr

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. NOVEMBER 27. 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS(Xbe Carnegie flMai
THE OFFICIAL 
NIGHT STUDENTS 
PAGE.
Night Associate Editors 
l;or The Plaid Announced
!
One From Each School Appointed To Be in Charge o News ReportersThe following men have been appointed Night Associate News Editors by Mr. E. E. McDonald, 
Night Editor:J. S. Geyser, Industries.'J-:. J. Molyneaux, Engineering.
~.Cv Carnival, Arts.It will be up to these men to gather the news of their respective schools and turn it over to the Night News Editor in time for publication'in the desired issue.That it has been a. difficult task 
to till or even attempt to fill thc allotcd space each week without the aid ot a staff is putting it mildly and each week secs a wild hunt for news. Now things should be different in view of the above assignments as it is quite safe lo say that these men appear to be workers, fact their past records in school activities prove them to be so, it looks like part of a heavy 
load will be lightened.A reportorial system is yet to be devised and perfected and when 
this has been accomplished, many interesting articles in connection with the night school are anticipated. Much credit is due to Mr. L.. *E. McDonald for the  consolidation of thc Skibo and Tartan, since it was mostly due to his untiring efforts that the combine was finally accomplished and now that itf has so far proved successful it is up to all of thc night students to carry-on in order to achieve for thc paper even greater suc
cess- which can be done if each will 
do his share.Work on the paper will be rewarded by an Insignia Award from thc N. S. C. and recommendations will be made on the basis of the amount and quality of material turned in. Reporters have been appointed from each school, but this is not to be taken for granted that only those who have been appointed are eligible to write for the paper. Far be it from such as anyone who cares to and will take the time to write, whether it , be news items or special articles of interest to thc .night student body or rather of interest to all the readers of the paper, arc urged to send in their ideas to thc Night 
Editor of thc Plaid.
The Quarterback Behind You(Minnesota Daily)Football would be a complete -nystcry without him. He should have been a radio broadcaster, for at every game he makes a play by play report with gestures, explanations and illustrations. He sees everything and describes it with; .'fcTud expletives and .choice sclec- tions from football history. He b.eat George Washington out of the fullback position on thc Army i team in 1779. He made thc winning touchdown against Oxford in the War of 1912.I If someone fumbles thc ball dur- 1 ing a play, you know within the next three minutes who was- responsible, how lie happened to do it. and just what thc coach ought to do to him. When the opposing team threatens to score, he shouts down that they arc going to pass, that thc ends should spread out, that the tackles should rush the play, and that everyone else should cover his man. When the local eleven approaches . thc goal line, he announces that a touchdown is certain if they use a fake kick play. They fail to score by a pass and he shrieks. I told you so!With this expert in action, there is little need to watch the game. Like the noble ladies of ancient Rome who would rather have their siaves describe thc chariot races than take thc trouble of watching them with their won eyes, thc spectators seated about this man would rather listen to his eloquent and stirring. account of the game than to sec it for themselves. Perhaps the athletic authorities might provide this man with a loud speaker, so that the entire audience of some fifty-thousand might understand football for thc first time in their lives. A salary, and a title might be appropriate. At least such .obliging service ought to be rewarded ' by a silver-plated megaphone or a cigar large enough to completely fill an extra large mouth.
Princeton, N. J.After abolishing thc huddle system which he introduced into eastern collegiate football in 1921, Coach cBill RopCr of Princeton has returned to this form of play, which seems to be growing instead of diminishing in popularity throughout the country, in spite of the rules against the shift which it was believed would abolish the huddle.St. Louis.The old Missouri val- ,'ley. football conference, which was broken up last year by the forma- ition of the Big Six, may become revived, and add several new members. Those left in the conference now are Oklahoma A. and M., Washington University, Drake and : Grinneli. Other schools under consideration are Arkansas, Butler, Marquette, Creighton, Carleton, Coe and St. Louis university.
WE ILLEGITIMATES
Engineering has had for a long time the position among the professions of an illegitimate child; it was born without honors and-none have been thrust upon it. The engineer has felt thc stigma, and has tried to remove it. Like other victims of thc inferiority complex, his efforts appear as a form of superiority. He doesnt try to justify himself, he praises himself and believes thc other professions suffering in thc lack of his virtues.
Nice phrases to be addressed to us who are studying engineering 
with full intentions of making this 
profession our life work! Were
they written simply by one who 
sees us from thc outside, they
might contain at least a narrow
sort of truth, but coming as they 
do from thc pen of an anonymous 
engineer to -thc New Student," 
there must be a great deal of ex
perience and thought behind them.
Unfortunately we of Technology 
arc entirely sufficient unto our
selves. Wc have no students of 
purely liberal courses with whom 
to mingle; our cultural studies 
amount to very little; wc scoff at 
those elsewhere who gain a gen
eral education with only a frac
tion of the effort technical prob
lems require. Upon what basis do 
we scoff? Upon only a total lack of information of what exists on thc other side of the fence. Far from understanding ourselves, we are. grossly ignorant of thc ideals of the rest of the student world. Are we not guilty in our own juvenile way of exactly the sin laid at thc door of the older engineers?Here in undergraduate life- there is . not one of us who has not formed his ideal of a successful post-scholastic life. If hearsay may be taken as fact, not one of us will venture far into professional engineering without losing in its entirety that idealwhether through discouragement or through the substitution of a more practical, experienced outlook upon engineering life. Do we labor in college under an entirely false atmosphere? Do our instructors keep up totally in the dark as to what thc professional is like, or are they themselves ignorant of it all?
My own experience in engineering has helped to convince me not only that the ideals of which I have talked, were illusions, but that all the ideas and ideals I had got on my own hook in college were shady. . . . 1^ dont know
whether, idealism inevitably- results in incomptence; my. idealism made me more incompetent than otherwise. ... T lost my ideals by being competent.
That engineers are a boon to humanity through their service to mankind and their immensely invaluable "cold straightforward thinking is hardly ' doubted by anyone herebe he professor or merest novice. Yet. thc writer states that here is  thc greatest error of them all: that an engineer in doing his job gives not a particle of considration to the human element concerned, but caters solely to the business- of it all to ihe satisfaction of building a greater bridge than ever before; to the joy that comes from 'pleasing the people they dircctly serve, thc financiers.
It is needless to say that such pecuniary, self-satisfying ideals may get the bridges. built, but not a step , do they take toward humanizing thc engineer, toward making us work aught but that of a bastard profession. But what is the remedy? Have -we in our new Humanics course a complete panacea. J. hat is hardly possible, though it may go far in thc Institutes sincere attempt to humanize its finished product. Should all technical students have as a prerequisite to enrollment at least.two years of a liberal collge influenc. Wc arc iirmly convinced that with thc present four-year pressure system of technical study, this alone can give even a fair share, of thc breadth of viewpoint necessarv. Thc writers _ thoughts arc well worth constdring:
'The way I see for putting real values into engineering is to make all the philosophers into engineers, and thc engineers philosophers, so that the philosophers would be obliged to put theory into practice, and the engineers would be obliged to consider questions that arc never asked in doing their job.
The Tech. Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
MARKED FOR LIFE
Certain African tribes ,scar thc taces of their children with identification marks, that they may recognize them again if separated by slavery or war.
There will be no night classes 
on Thursday and Friday eve
nings, November 29th and 30th. 
Thanksgiving Recess.
Night Engineers Banquet 
At Roosevelt Hotel Dec. 15
The Roosevelt hotel at Sixth street and Penn avenue, has been announced as the scene of activities for the Night Engineers Banquet to be held on Dcccmber 15, at 6:30 p. m.That an elaborate program of cats, speeches and entertainment is being arranged is about all thc committee will tell as they arc anxious to spring a surprise on those who attend.
Look f6r thc fellows with thc red and blue tickets and make your reservations early.
Investigation Carried On 
In H. And V. Laboratory
In connection with the American Socicty of Heating and Ventilating Engineers and the U. S. Bureau of Mines, an investigation is being carried on in the heat laboratory of thc Heating and Ventilating Department to develop the sizes of wet return lines in steam heating systems. A return line in a. steam heating system is thc pipe into which thc condensed steam from the radiators flows on thc way back to the heating boiler. A wet return is so called bccausc it runs below thc water level in the boiler and thc pipe itself is filled with water. There is no available data on this subject so that contractors usually install larger 
size pipe than is needed. When this piece of research is completed and published it will enable contractors to install thc right sizes of pipe,, at a saving of several hundred dollars on every installation. Director Houghton and Professor Dibble have direct supervision over thc two research engineers who are collecting the data. Special instruments lo aid thc work are now being made in the Bureau of Alines.It is of  interest that thc research work done by this department last year has been published and is now generally accepted by thc industry. Many manufacturers have made reprints of the work or have incorporated it bodily into their catalogues 
and have distributed it to their customers who use it in their daily work.
TWO AERONAUTICAL CLUBS ON CARNEGIE TECH CAMPUS
There has been unwarranted confusion on'thc part of both Thc Tartan and thc student, body qn the , relations of the' different aeronautical groups of the Campus.There arc two distinct clubs at Carnegie which are primarily interested in aviation. One is thc Aviation Club, in which the members meet to discuss thc commercial, scientific and social aspects of aviation. Speakers are secured for semimonthly meetings and open discussion on parts and equipment is held.Thc Flying Club is a group with the purpose of buying and actually flying an airplane as a Campus activity. This group at present is in the middle of a drive for thc purchase of its plane. Howard: Wilkoff, at 210 McGill Hall, is president and student representative of thc Flying Club.Both clubs arc rccognizcd as full- fledged activities by student council.
THE WRONG WAYExcavation work on the big sewer had reached a low, mucky place and the Italian laborers were having their troubles with thc soft mud.Suddenly there arose a shout.Cmcar, quick! Bringa da shov! Bringa da peek! Pietros stuck in the mud to his knees!Tell him to wade out, shouted the foreman.He cana no wadehe wrong end up.
i Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student
Well, that certainly was a Strong attack ljist Saturday. The boys gave their best, but it was not quite enough, it looked as though that New York bunch was primed up in thc same manner for us as wc were for Notre Dame. It's a tough proposition to keep any team keyed up in the right manner lor three or four games in a row, however, this is not given as an alibi for losing or anthing; it is just a plain statement of fact. Suppose that shoots thc California trip unless Yoder happens to put in a good word.Even in defeat Harpstcr was wonderful and if for no other reason than that he was. playing his last game for Carnegie would have liked to have seen the team come through. This should not interfere with Harps chances for all-American, and . we certainly hope lie gets it for lie surely deserves it. Wonder who will be able to take his place next year and if you dont think if will be hard to fill his shoes ask Wally. Incident a 1 ly, Wally's correspondence coaching seems to get results.Have you made arrangements for Friday evening, yet? Well, if you havent, you had better get busy right now and make them bccausc it seems as though everyone will be there and you surely dopt want to be an outsider. The committee says 
it is going to be the best dance ever sponsored by the night men, so if this is true it sure is going to be some affair. So what do you say we all go and let them show us. Dont forget thc Union, Friday evening, November 30,' from 9 lo 1.Well, its getting to be shelter house time at Carnegie. Now that thc cold winds do blow,' it looks like a cruel, cold winter ahead of us. Wish whoever is holding this issue up would come down there at the
car stop some night when it is really chilly and xsee how uncomfortable it is. Before he docs though he had better drag out those red flannels because he sure. is going to need them. That will give him another advantage over most of us.Some one told us about a good book the other da}', but what we wanted to know was how 'in thc name of sense were we ever going to find time to read it. As things istand nowjob, school four nights a week, a girl, a home and this column (no that doesnt take much of our time, thank you)why we seem tohave about all we can handle. Incidentally, for no reason at all, that reminds me, ran into the first president of thc N. S. C.George Jrliriling, the other day and he certainly is looking fine and he was asking all about thc affairs out here, consequently, avc had quite a long chat.At last Thanksgiving is at hand and now we dont remember what to be thankful for, maybe it should be just bccausc wc are living especially in this age instead of one of the bygones. Ev.cn though wc may- not know what to be thankful for, wcarc quite sure that we arc going to enjoy the turkey and all.of its trimmings, so maybe, perhaps if wc get two good turkey legs and plenty of white meat, we may become piggish and be thankful for that. Who knows? This is one time of the year that the diets receive very little if any attention. Say that would be real hard luck for a fellow to be put on some ki..'l of a fool diet around this time of thc year. But all fooling aside wc are thankful that wc arc whole and able to attend Carnegie even though it just be in thc nights to help us round out our education that wc might, perhaps, l|C more useful. -K:.
MUSIC DEPT. TO. GIVE 
CONCERT DECEMBER 9
In observance of thc one hun
dredth anniversary of thc death of 
thc great composer, Franz Peter 
Schubert, who died lbO. years ago yesterday, on November 19, 1928, a Schubert concert will be presented by the Music Department of Carnegie Institute of Technology on Sunday evening, Dcccmber 9, at 8:15 p. m., in the Little Theater, College 
of Fine Arts.Reserved seat tickets for this concert will be mailed to' those who send stamped, self-addressed envelopes with their request for tickcts to the theater, College of Fine Arts, Carnegie Institute of Technology. Scats will not be reserved, after 8:15.^Thc program will include: Schuberts Symphony in C major, Symphony in B minor (unfinished), and a selection by a vocal soloist in thc 
Department of Music.
London.-^Rpscarch has long been 
one of the purposes of American 
college and university professors, 
but Englishmen arp astonished at 
thc latest bit of research work en
tered into by a group of American 
pedagogues who have just arrned 
here. .Their mission is to find the ugliest white woman in thc world.While there has always been a dispute as to who was thc most beautiful woman in history, so far as is known there has never been any doubt as to the one who possessed the most revolting features.This Sybil of thc sex was the Duchess Margaret of Garinthia. and Tyrol, who lived in thc middle ages and was thc subject, of a. portrait by thc Flemish master Quentin 
Matsys.."The recent.sale of Matsvs picture has inspired us to undertake this quest, a member of the party 
said."It is remarkable that at prescnj there are known to be only two candidates for the invidious distinction of being thc worst looking woman in the worlda French
actress and an English woman."The French woman has a mouth extending nearly from car lo car, | while her eyes arc narrow slits.I A wapish waist of only fourteeninches heightens her ugliness.The English woman, who has an enormous face like that of some bovine animal and a huge nose out of all proportion' even to her large head, presents an equally grotesque visage."It is a remarkable fact that most womenwith thc possible exception of thc ugly duchesswhoarc really ugly are sweet-naturedand easily attract husbands."
P M I enroll now>. second half of first semester. Be
ginners or advanced students may enter at any time for private lessons in Piano, Voice, Violin, Organ or Expression. 30 Branch studios.: 
PITTSBURGH MUSICAL INSTITUTE, INC.
131-133 BELLEFIELD AVENUE. PITTSBURGH, PA.
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
I Capital $300,000Surplus $300,000
There is no better credit reference than 
a substantial savings account in a reliable 
bank.
It is our pleasure to serve you.
JOIN OUR CHRISTMAS SAVINGS 
AND PURPOSE CLUBS
PITTSBURGH
PHILANTHROPIC ACTIVITIESBEGUN BY M. M. C. C. GUILDThe Guild, a philanthropic organization of M. M. C. C through the aid of its rccenl membership drive has- been able to purcha.se four pictures to be. placed on thc walls of a club room in Kingsley House settlement, which it has undertaken to decorate this year. The paintings arc titled,. "Spring," "Morning," "Day Dreams" and "A Vcntian Scene.Thc Guild has also bought material for curtains and cushions to be used in thc chib room. Members of thc Guild Board and girls belonging to the Costume Economics Club have undertaken to make these articles.
M. M. Seniors To Launch 
Honor System Inquiry jYES
At a meeting of the Margaret Morrison senior class last Friday a discussion of the honor system led by Miss Mary Bcdwell Breed, resulted in the decision to distribute questionnaires among thc faculty and seniors. By this means it is hoped to find out accurately how seriously thc honor system is being taken, how effective it is, and how much its continuation is valued.In the past year or two there has been talk of abolishing the system since some students feel that the examinations as they are supervised by -teachers are. fairer to both thc large majority of honest students and the few who do not hesitate to take advantage of thc opportunities offered for cheating by the honor system.Whether Margaret Morrison will continue to be thc possessor, of an honor system, under the student government, depends partly on thc opinions expressed by the seniors and faculty in answering the questionnaire. Hence it is desirable that every one questioned give accurate and truthful answers.
Since Capitol University at Columbus has adopted a new set of freshman rules it seems altogether fitting and proper that the soph class here at Akron U. should also adopt a new set. In this line 1 would like to offer, a few suggestions, namely:For a period of two months freshmen must not litter a word on th campus cither to other students or to professors. Freshman men must- not during that period have any dates and no freshman, man or woman, should attend any class.No freshman boy or girl shall wear any shoes or, stockings.All freshman boys must leave an uti shaved swastica on each chcck and a question mark on his chin, for a period of two weeks.All Freshmen shall furnish a watermelon to any uppcrelassman upon demand. Melons under fifteen pounds do not count.On button day any freshman, on hearing the word "button" spoken by an upperclassman, must drop anything he is carrying and jump twenty-two feet in the air.It is thought that if the freshman class is big enough it can inflict these rules on thc sophomores. These rules if worked either way should make a good and submissive cl^ss of the group on which they are used.Suggestions for Sophs., University of Akron.
Have wc thought about November thirtieth ?Are wc preparing to participate In the informal festivities?Do wc not remember previous Entertainments of the same variety Where we had fun And how!Will we be at the first Night Council Dance This year?Will wc?
Plans Completed For Night 
Student Council Dance
SLIGHT ERROR. Chicago Cop\Vhatyc you got in that car?GangsterNothin' but booze, officer.Cop  T beg your pardon--'1 thought it might be history books.
One of the best helps to. thc student is a dependable fountain pen. The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade will sell you a pen with "exchange privileges so you can be sure that your hand is "fitted." They also repair old pens of all makis. Mention this article for special consideration.
Jimmie Zuinmo and His Orchestra 
To Furnish Music for the' 
Affair
Final preparations have been com
pleted for thc annual Thanksgiving 
Recess Dance of the Night Student 
Council to be held in the Union on 
Friday evening, November 30, from 
9 to 1. Thc popularity of these 
dances has increased each year to 
such an extent that there was some 
discussion after last years affair to 
make an effort to open thc Faculty 
club room for dancing. The chief 
objection to this plan would be the 
c6st of installing amplifiers to relay 
thc music.'
Jimmie Zuinmo and his orchestra have been sclectcu to render thc music for thc occasion and no -doubt, many will remember this popular aggregation from their summer engagements at the Willows and Ken
ny wood Park.Until the organization of the N. 
S'. C., there was just one dance a year on thc night campus. This affair was called thc Inter-Niglu School Dance and was held at the close of the school year. Since that lime, however, things have changed considerably and now there arc four such affairs each year for the night min. This ohaugc has proven beneficial if in mi other way than to promote a social contact between thc entire student body. This one factor alone is sufficient reason for the continuation of these affairs.Tickets will'bc on sale at thc door on the night of the dance for thc benefit of those who have neglected to obtain them from thc various representatives.
Night Arts Dance To Be
Held December On 8th
The Social Committee working on the Night Arts D-nco scheduled for Dcccmber 8. in the Union, will have their arrangements completed in time tor a full announcement in next weeks issue.
Financial Assistance For 
Band By Nislil Students
Carnegie Tech Should Have Largest College Band in the Country
; The following has been extracted trom a lcttcl- of a night student in Industries and is offered for comment among thc night ihcn:
"Those of the night students who attend the athcltic events, especially the football game, have in al probability noticed that there arc about 20 members of the band who do not have uniforms. This condition has existed tor sonic time and is nudoubt the reason for Carnegie not having the largest collcgc baud in the country.
As. I undcrst;: id it. the band is suportcd through funds appropriated bv the Day. Student Council, but these are not always sufficient to buy uniforms for all of thc men who report for the band.Is it not possible for the flight students to get together on the hasis oi forming a subscription list and supplying uniforms for those whom thc day appropriation is unable to care lor. Wc are just as proud of the band as anyone else, so let's prove it."
The siguei- of the above letter even went so far as to offer $5 to head the list but until some action hasbeen taken, his kind offer has been rejected.
Of course, it is rather late in theseason to do - anything now, butshould any more of you men feel as thc above man, send in your views to thc Editor of:the Plaid.
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Spccial 
Student Rates
0F1 2M>oEXRI
MENS TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
000 Btnlc Thcntor Illclr.
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all makes 
'of typewriters. Portable anJ 
Standard Machines.
See our Big' Supply and get 
special student rates.
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
On their
to here
7on flArj Chesterfield cigarettes are now sailing 
' 5 Soutb-Polewards with the Byrd Antarc
tic Expedition. We a re officially informed that the selection 
of Chesterfield resulted from the individually expressed 
preferences of a majority of the expeditions members.
When it is recalled that these arein superlative sense 
 picked men . . . selected not only for bravery, ability 
and experience, but also by searching tests of physical 
fitness. ..we may be forgiven for our considerable pride 
in their vote. And something of this pride, we believe, 
will be shared by all Chesterfield smokers.
It is another of thc many proofs piling up that the 
surest way to earn popularity is to deserve it!
U>ED-EX7REAF
MILD enough for anybody.. and yet. .THEY SATISFY
LlCOirr ic UY1E3 TOBACCO CO.

---------------------------------------------------

ATHE CARNEGIE TARTAN! CJESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1928.
Prominent Industrial Men 
Deliver Lectures to Seniors 
in Industrial Management
COSTUME ECONOMICS .CLUB 
BAZAAR THIS THURSDAY
A series of Icctures on "The Hu
man Problem in Management, lias 
been scheduled for science and in
dustries seniors taking the course 
in Industrial Management. Last 
week addresses were delivered by 
Dr. Holtz of the Philadelphia Company and Professor Stanton of .Carnegie's Civil Engineering Department. During the past week 
three additional speeches were heard. Dr. Craig, a professor of Personnel Management at the University of Pittsburgh, and an ex- faculty member of Carnegie, delivered two lectures, one on Monday and another on Wednesday. His iirst talk, was entitled The Personnel Department/ his second dealt with "The Engineer's Ap
proach to Human Problems."
On Thursday, Dr. Grii'fiss, head of the Economics Department at Carnegie Tech, gave an hour's talk on "Statistics as ' a Management Tool."
"The Personnel Department" was an explanation of the function that the personnel department of industry performs in relation toi I be other phases. . Dr. Craig, first brought out the . problems that 
management has to deal with, namely: Production, finance, sales and personnel. The task of the Personnel Department was made clear, together with the various duties of the department towards employment, training, health .and safety, and relations to employes. Lastly, Dr. Craig emphasized the "hit and miss! methods.
In his second lecture Dr. Craig: made an effort to show the students the type of thinking performed by an engineer, and made plain the failure of leaders to be patient when dealing with human beings. Reasons for this impatience were indicated and suggestions for their prevention offered. He concluded his talk with the statement that leadership depends upon four qualities: intelligence, forcefulncss, kindliness and integrity.
Dr. Grifiiss spoke for one bout- on a subject that is given the senior commercials for an entire semester. "Statistics as a Management Tool," was a brief outline of the application of statistical results for the benefit of industry. Statistical methods and results were discussed with examples of yood and poor practices in applauding them. It was brought out that statistics can be made very injurious if improperly or unintelligibly handled.
Next week more lectures will be delivered to the class by Director Jewett of the Industries school. His subject will be "Labor Policies in Industry."
Several ITonorariesMake Autumn Calls
Several honorary fraternities have already made their calls. Others will make calls within a fihort time. Conventions of these, fraternities began Ibis month and will continue until 1 lie Christmas holidays.
Today, at the CnrncRic Day exercises, Alpha Tan made its annual call, Several of the honornries have already made their fall calls. Scarab opened the season with its call which was made October 2<l. Scabbard and Blade followed with its annual fall call which was made November 1, at the R.O.T.C. drill.
Eta Kappa Nu made its call November 20. The men called were: 1. H. Ferrick, William J. Ruatio, R, S. Young, R. R. Galbreadth, R. B. Gochring, R, H. Johnson, A; I. Phillips, M; W. Lindsay, T. I. Rosing, and C. I. Susserot.
Thcta Tan and Tau Beta Pi also made their calls on November 20. The majority of the calls, however, will not be made until Campus week. Many , of the fraternities arc having conventions either before or during the Christmas holidays. Eta Kappa Nu held its twenty-fourth annual convention at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis on November 2 and 3. The Sigma Chapter of Carnegie Tech was represented by the president, G. M. Cooper. Last week the Carnegie Chapter of Scarab was represented at its annual convention in Washington, D. C. by the president, J. J. Rietz. G. M. Wile, treasurer of Tau Beta Pi here, attended the national com'cn- ti'on of that fraternity in St. Louis, 
the early part of this month. During the Christmas holidays, Phi Mu Alpha and Alpha Rho Chi will hold their conventions. The latter 
will take place in Los Angeles, December 29, 30 and 31, but the Carnegie delegate has not yet been 
selected.
Campus Representatives
Of Balfour Co. Appointed
Paul K. Schell and Louis Fahnc.r stock, III, seniors at Carnegie, and members of Kappa Sigma Fraternity, have been appointed as Carnegies representatives of L. G. Balfour Company, nationally know college jewelers. . These men are prepared to handle all orders for Christmas cards, party favors and rollcge jewelry. They may be found at 62*1 Clyde street, or phone 
Schenlcy 977-1.
L. :G. Balfour Company arc authorized jewelers for 95 1 per cciit of all national fraternities. Thevsupply class insignia to many colleges and s c c o n d a r y schoolsthroughout the country. A complete line of dance favors andChristmas, cards are also for sale by the company.
The Margaret Morrison Costujiie 
Kcononiics Department holds its Costume Bazaar next Thursday, December 6, in the study room on the first floor of the M. M. C. C. building. Seniors in the department will be in charge of selling, which will begin Thursday morning and continue throughout the day.Members of the department have been working since the beginning of the semester on their contributions for the sale, under the supervision of the Costume Economics faculty. During the last few weeks especially the -dye-room and dress-making laboratories at Margaret Morrison engaged in completing material which includes smocks and Coolie coats of light woolens decorated with stencilled or embroidered designs to go on sale Thursday. The ubiquitous scarf will appear in new forms done in batik and' tic-dyc effects, a large assortment of hand-blocked Christmas wrapping papers will also be displayed. Girls in chargc of the sale have announced that prices this year arc to be reasonable and lower than those quoted by the department stores.Several affairs of this kind have been undertaken by the department ii previous years and have been very successful. This year, however, a special effort is facing made to obtain finances,, since the proceeds are to be given to the Carnegie' Endowment Fund.
Carnegie (rad. Lectures 
Al Civil Seminar Wed. 21
J. F. Laboon, a Carnegie Tech graduate, now a member of the firm J. N. Chester, Engineers, was llie speaker at the Civil Seminar, Wednesday, November 21. His subject was Sewage Disposal. Mr. Laboon did all his work for the B. S. and C. E. degrees he holds in Night school. It might be interesting, to those students who arc now finite busy, to know that Mr. Laboons course required three hours a night, four nights a week fo,r_ eight years.First, stressing the importance of sewage disposal from the standpoint of protecting human life by,I lie protection of water, supply, 
Mr. Laboon discussed its history,' from a technical standpoint, fromII s first existence 50 years ago to the modern mechanical means used at the present time. The well known ImholT Tank, invented by the German scientist, was explained and its disadvantages which are leading to ils decreased use were (li.scussed. Much of the research 
work (tn the Jm.hofT Tank is due to the efforts of Dr. Beatty and Dr. Fair, of Harvard University.As a substitute for the Imhoff Tank llie open Sludge beds with glass, tops are now coming into prominent use as well as Trickling Fillers. Probably llie most recent and most important development in this field is the Hminis Tank which is now being used very extensively.The mechanical operation of these different methods were discussed quite thoroughly and they all tended lo make a very interesting talk,
In closing Mr, Laboon discussed :he big problem tile increased use, of llie automobile is causing at novvage disposal plants. Grease is a big problem at the plants and the automobile contributes very much to it.
SENIOR DISCUSSION GROUP HOLDS FOURTH MEETING
"The Metaphysical Ha sis of Killies" was the topic discussed at the fourth meeting of (he Sen discussion group of M. M, C. C. held ycsUmla'y at !:.)() with Miss Breed conducting. These meetings are held annually by Miss Breed to find 'the trend of student thought Ion serious subjects. Attendance is voluntary. Discussions are carried on almost entirely by the students. The four topics which have been discussed this year at bi-monthly Monday meetings of the group arc: The Meaning of the Word "Belief;* the Reality of Idealism and Male rialisrn; a Continuance of llie Dis cussion; the Metaphysical Basis of Ethics.
Mr. Bowman to Instruct
At University of Benna.
Mr. Bowman, an instructor i the .Economics Department, ha- been recently offered a position as instructor at the University of Pennsylvania. The faculty has released him from his contract. Mr. Bowman is an alumnus of the University of Pennsylvania and resides in Philadelphia. He will in conjunction with his teaching work study for a doctors degree in philosophy.
James W. Howell has been appointed to fill the vacancy. Mr.Howell holds the Bachelor ofScience degree from Boston University, 1926, and the degree of Master of Arts from Harvard, 192S.
Girls Glee Club to Sing
At Childrens Hospital
The Womens Glee .Club will entertain the children at the Children'.. hospital, on the afternoon of November 30, at 3 o'clock. Two or three selections will be sung in each of llie four wards of the hospital. Thiswill be the first appearance of the club off the Carnegie campus Ibis year.
Al the first of the school year the Womens Glee Club had a membership of 80 students. Recently the membership has been reduced to <13 active members. Great stress placed upon the importance of good attendance because the leaders leel that if the club is to be a real suc- ccs; every member must co-operate by attending all or a large percentage of the meetings.
uture Secretaries of Great Men Pursue 
Their Studies on Third Floor of M.M.C.C. A #icctiK o[ Thcta Tau, Na.
On the third floor o( Margaret I is roaming far with IhoUghtJ oi nc.-d ! lio' Professional Engineering fra- Morrison, if one has the endurance dance, the last date or the newest i lernity, was held on Wednesday 
lo climb that high, he may see the [dress, but-the student must also have, evening at 7:30 o'clock in Room future secretaries of flic great'men I an accurate knowledge of the organ- 55^ Engineering Hall. R. L. Kirk, of III.' times Imsily acquiring skill I isms anil ccccntricilics of lirr tj'|n- ~ Dum , Comnanv'in tlic sci'cncc of pot-hook and writer. | J' , Companycurves. Here, high above less cour- The field of secretarial also rx- -poke on I lie organization and 
agcous mortals, the members of the tends to those well-beloved subjects j scope of public utilities corporasecretarial department struggle with ! of Economics or Accounts. A can- i tions/ Mr. Kirk was a graduate 
II,c formation ,,f circles, angles and did opinion on some of the rn.rn.er- |of i)lc E,cctrical Engineering course Perhaps, as they try lo read ous home work problems 111-accounts ! . it__ ........  - . . I <._ ............ at Carnegie 111 1914. Mr. Kirk
pointed out the different divisions 
of public utilities corporations, the 
work of each and the fields offered
the various characters several -hours might give the interviewer an insight after they have been written, the into the remarkable descriptive v/ould-be-scntcnces form nothingbut powers and the virility of a secrc-thingbuthopeless jumble. Nevertheless,Xter a few years of practice ;thcy can take dictation from the most fluent speakers and be able to.trails-; ci'ibe it into sensible linglish,The work of a secretary-to-be is by no means limited to the study of shorthand. If the more curious will but climb another flight of stairs, the first sound that he hears will be incessant, regular "tap-lap-tap." If he follows the sound lie will find himself in a large room filled with typewriters. if the observer murmurs to himself "How simple it is! let him try it. He will soon find that a large amount of co-ordination necessary lo maintain an even, jerklcss speed that is so essential in ;i good secretary. First attempts al maintaining an even speed are usually tried 011 the famous sentence: "Now is llie time for all good men come to the aid of their counr  lie may indeed rest content whose first copy docs not look some- ibing like this: 2Np.wis rhdrinrfot ill ropd mem ot cpmc to be adiof :gere coinrty? Not only must the keyboard be learned so that perfect copies may be written while the mind
W aW lyl Crnl eg eiEet Beta Pi Christmas 
TAU ON PUBLIC UTILITIES j Sale Qn December 8
THURSDAY LECTURES AT 
MUSEUM BEGIN ON NOV. 29 j
Former Carnegie Dean
Now University President
powers ....tary's, vocabulary. * In spite of thelabor involved, it is to be doubted .. ., . . . . ,,whether the secretary ever envies Her | 10 tle engineer emphasizing Ihe more artistically inclined sisters need for generalization m enginccracross lhe street. l ing courses. An . interesting disDiiririg the senior year lhe secre- j CHSon followed the address, 
tari are given an opportunity to ; A ^j be hcld bc.put in practice the knowledge ac-quircd through long days of labor ] tween the end of fraternity rushand nights devoid of ease. They  ing season and the Christmas vaca- come in contact with the hard busi- } tion.ness mangenerally potray.cd with a } _______________huge cigar in his mouth talking at a :
preposterous rate of speed and learn Clllb ROOIII Opened 111 Qyillthat the picture portrayed for them  ,,,r> is much worse than the real thing, i I () All Carnegie WomenThose secretaries who have felt the _______call to impart their fund .of knowl-  A|| c . arc
edge to the young arc give, 1. c hag c t0 ,c Womens Club
lM'schools0' Will, fear and tremb- Jom !> pninasium building 
P th teacher in JU will  for
deavor to ge her knowledge ac-HDD ( ^ Xbey arcto the terrible younger generation, j - -- which is certainly going to the dogs.
Beta Pi, an Art School sorority, is planning a Christmas sale which will be hcld in the Womens Club 
Room, Saturday, December 8.The proceeds from the sale will be donated, either to charity, or to the Endowment Fund. This benefit is becoming a custom with the sorority, having been hcld for the last three years. It was hcld orig
inally for the purpose of raising money for scholarships, but. since the Womens Scholarship Organization now holds annual benefit affairs, the Beta Pis efforts are directed to other interests.The sorority members arc hard at work making articles for the sale. The P. and D. students arc painting pictures, making sketches, designing silhouettes, tallies, bridge scores, and many, other articles that arc always in demand. Those who are skilful with lie needle will contribute leather work, embroidery work, and the various types of sewing.Several of the professors have,! in previous years, * contributed sketches and paintings for the Christmas sale, and they are always eagerly accepted and greatly appreciated, for of coursc they help insure the success of this benefit.
Here again, the -portrait is found to bc greatly exaggeratedand the tcachcr goes on licr way serene and happy in the. discovery that she really can teach a group of high school pupils-something.
Aviation. Flying Clubs
Distinct Activities
There has been one confusion on the part of the Tartan and the tudcnt body about the different aeronautical organizations /on the Campus. There are two separate organizations and they arc both recognized by the Student Council duly authorized campus activities.One is the Aviation Club, an organization -which meets two times each month and discusscs the 'current topics in aviation. Matters such a|i profits, difficulties, and the advancement of aviation arc discussed. The other organization is- the Flying Club, a club organized for lhe purpose of actually flying plane under the name of the Carnegie Tech school. When complete. Ibis club will bc composed of thirty members, its established limit,' and these men iiave taken 011 themselves the responsibility of buying a plane. At the present time the club is working toward the purchase of a Trav- r plane, the type which has proven successful in the Flying Clubs at Harvard and Yale.
PROF. NYQUISTS WORK ON
ART EDUCATOR PUBLISHED
One j of Carnegies professors, Frtdrik V. Nyquist of the Department of Education and Psychology has recently been asked by the School Arts Magazine 10 write a biographical sketch of Professor William Garrison Whilford of the University of Chicago, Mr. Whit'll is chairman of the Department of Art Education and asso- e professor in art education at llie Chicago school. Mr. Nyquist's ii'tide appeared in llie May edition uf the magazine.
The article represents a comprc- icnsive outline of Mr. Whitford's public life and works. Having been a pupil of Mr. Whitford's at Ihe University of Chicago, Professor Nyi|iiist knew the art educator personally. I-Jis article thus revealed many points about the man that would have been missed by one not well acquainted.Professor Nyquist tells of lhe reforms and innovations in art cdu-tion made by Professor Whilford during his 12 years at the University of Chicago. The North-Central Association of High Schools owes many of the innovations art education in its curriculum to Mr. Whilford. During lhe World Avar Mr. Whilford left his art work to volunteer for service abroad.
Music Notes
November, 29.May Becg'ie will present Doris Niles with her Spanish Ballet in the Syria Mosque, Thanksgiving evening'. Miss Niies supporting company includes her sister, Cornelia, an artistic solo dancer, a ballet of beautiful girls, a select orchestra, some of whose players were members of the New York Symphony, under Walter Damrosch, and six Spanish guitar virtuosi, the Ronsalla Usandizaga, from the Basque Province of Spain, brought to America by Miss Niles especially for her tour.
December 3.
Hulda Lashanska, soprano,  appear as the second artist in the Y. M. &'W. H. A. series 011 Monday, December 3, at 8:15 p. 111 She was fortunate in that Marcella Sembrich accepted her as one of 
a few promising pupils and soon became a leading soprano in th concert stage.
recember *1.The opening concert of the Mon
Music Students GiveAnniversary Program
On Sunday evening, December 9, 1928, at 8:15 p. m., in Carnegie' Music Hall, the Carnegie Symphony Orchestra and students .of the voice department of Carnegie Institute will present a Schubjert program in observance of the one hundredth anniversary of the death of that immortal composer. The program will include both the B minor (unfinished) and C M!ajor Symphonies of Schubert's. Schuberts reputation as the greatest song written of all time will 'be honored by the rendition of a number of his songs by the vocal students. Tickcts will be required for admission. These tickcts for reserved seats will be mailed to those who send a self-addressed, and stamped-envelope with their request to the Theatre, College, of 
Fine Arts, Carnegie Institute of Technology. Seats will not bc ire- served after eight-fifteen.Franz Schubert was born in ilie year 1797 and died in 1828. ' No more fitting tribute can be given him than that of Schumann's. \yho said of him "Everything that 1 he touched turned lo music." .The world of this generation can. pay 
110 finer honor to the memory: of the divine composer than lo hear his music, especially his sorjsg, 
through which one penetrates .deepest to his innermost essence arid work. For song is the ccntcriof gravity in Schuberts creative genius, and Ihe lyric is likewise ihe germ of his instrumental works.
New Library Club To Be 
Sponsored By Dr. McLeod
Students in Margaret Morrison who have eleclcd the Library Course arc . planning to form a club under the sponsorship of Dr. MacLeod. The coursc in Library 
work is the only one in Margaret Morrison whose members have not organized a social group.The girls are forming' the club for three main purposes: Toestablish a contact with the campus for those students who are continuing tlicir work at the main library: to further an interest in 
more worth-while books :, and to help any person, whether lie' is a member of the club or not, to choose books which will arouse an interest in better books. -''No officers, have been elected, as yet, but all members of the course are requested to .watch the bulletin board for the announcement of the next meeting.
delssohn Choir will bc given Tries day evening, December 4., in  Carnegie Music hall. Ernest I.unt, founder of the ciioir. is  fulfilling his twentieth y.ear as its. conductor.Choral, numbers for this occasion will be Schuberts "Song 0/ Miriam and Wolf-T.errari's "La Vita Nuoya." Schuberts work will be given! . in commemoration of that composers centenary year.
"La Vita Nuova is the story of Dantes boyhood love, for his Beatrice, the role of the solo baritone, representing the poet, to be assured by Frederick Baer.
is follows:1. The room will be open from 9 a. m. until 6 p. m.2. The time of meetings to bc held in the room will be posted 
011 the bulletin, board outside the door.3. Individuals 'must vacate the room by the hour posted for any meeting.4. The room is for the exclusive use of Carnegie women.5. Men are not permitted in the room.6. Smoking is prohibited.7. No articles of furniture, cook-iing utensils, etc., are to be removed from the room-8. Special permission for use ofkitchen must be obtained from the office, of the Dean ofW omcri.9. Girls arc not permitted to eat lunches in lhe room.10. Every girl is responsible forknowing these rules.The Womens Club room, in the gymnasium has always been in cornplete charge of Mortar Board, Womens Senior honorary. It is through the efforts of this organization that the room is again opened. The room is often scheduled as a place for teas and meetings of various organizations.
It was a sight to see those Irish Representing Notre Dame And the way old Tech ploughed tlireu em It was a dirty shame Oh,- they thought the Scotch were easy Butthey missed their guessby heckAnd theyll get the same dose next timeFrom old Carnegie Tech.
You may razz the bloomin Gentile And ridicule the Jew But, they can take a lickin,Which the Irish seldom do Sodont denigh the Kilties Of a Victory that was clean For it proves that. Tech and Tartan Is a little better than the green. 
Tiios. M. Henderson.
BANQUET FOR PLEDGES IS 
PLANNED BY TAU BETA PI
Tau Beta Pi, national engineering honorary, held a regular meeting 011 November 21, 1928, in Room 57, Science Hall.
It was decided to bold the initiation and banquet for the pledges 
011 January 12, 1929. A prominent speaker will be obtained for the occasion.The faculty advisory board has approved, _ and a social committee was appointed to take charge of social activities for the season. The members of this committee are W. G. Carson, chairman; G. M. Wile and R. C. Barton. A. W. Miller was appointed as pledge supervisor.
New Fellowship For
1929 Established
The Louis Comfort Tiffany Foundation Fellowship has been established for the year 1928this Fellowship will be awarded to a worthy student who has shown marked ability and interest in jewelry making and enameling. Not only is the sum of $100 awarded to the selected student but also all his expenses will bc paid for residence at the Foundation at Oyster Bay, N. Y., for a month, with possibility of an extension of time.This new Fellowship presents .unlimited opportunities to any student who is interested in jewelry making and enameling.
POETIC FOOTBALL
The Thursday evening, lecture 
coursc of the Carnegie Museum 
will begin November 29 with Cap
tain John Baptist Noel as the 
speaker. On December 6, Dr. Svlvanus G. Money will continue the 
series. 
Captain, Noel is one of the h.cro.cs 
of the Mount Everest Expedition, j 
He will tell of his own personal 
experience in a great, struggle against natural forces  amid cold and tenipcsjt, in the rarefied atmosphere 011 the very roof of the world. He .will show motion pictures of Tibet, of; the people, of 
the fortress monasteries of the Lauras, and the 'climb, up the highest mountain in . the . world. He took these" 'pictures , himself, as photographer of the expedition.Dr. Moriey, who is Director of Field Work, in Yucatan for the Carnegie Institution, will tell another chapter of his story- of the Maya civilization. This lecture will deal with the excavations of the Carnegie Institution of Washington _ at Chichcn Itza, Yucatan, Mexico, and Uaxactum, Guatemala in 1928.
Colonel Frank E. Day, former
Dean of Engineering and Industries 
freshmen, and Dr. W. F. Rittman, 
present members of the Commercial 
Engineering Department, have both 
recently... received important appoint
ments. Colonel Day has been named tlic president of Union' College, Schenectady,= New York, while Dr. Rittman has. been elected an officer in two national cngineenhg societies and has been made a trustee of Ohio Northern University.The National Society- ot Industrial Engineers at tlicir  Rochester meeting elected Dr. Rittman' president for the third consecutive term and the Administration Board of the .American Engineering Council, composed of delegates from, all national engineering societies, has appointed Dr. Rittman to that Board.Colonel Day was appointed'a professor of English and history at Swarthmorc collcgc two years agn. and had been 11 that position, until the time of bis new appointment. Col. Days recently published novel Rockbound, is receiving a very favorable reception from the "rbading 
public and critics.
Prof. Wurtz Represents
Carnegie At Installation
Professor Alexander Jay Wurtz represented Carnegie Tech at the presidential inauguration exercises of Susquehanna University at Sei- insgrove, Pa., which were hcld on Friday, November 23. At these exercises Dr. George Norris Smith was installed as the president of the University. Professor Wurtz, as Dr. Bakers substitute, also attended the fall meeting of the Association of College Presidents of 
Pennsylvania, which was .held at Harrisburg, Pa., last Friday and Saturday, November 23 and 24. Dr. Baker was unable to attend the meeting in person bccause of the International Coal Conference which was still in session at Carnegie at that time.
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near Craig
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST.. PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening scrviccs 8 to 9
Lets Go ToTECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS
CORNER FORBES &VCRAIG 
STREETS
Standard Makes of Tires
ASHBY & MINTEER TIRE SERVICE
VULCANIZINGCOMPLETE TIRE SERVICE
6115 Broad Street, East End Hiland 1460
Special Notice Students
Let's Renew Old Friendship
We arc Ready at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories from us.
LATEST STYLESALL SIZES
Special Student RatesWhittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
DANCING
At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
Bocinners Monday and Friday Eve
nings. Advanced, Thursday and Satur
day Evenings. Private lessons by appointment. Mayflower 7891
At all Stationers
Sendl 00fSr samplc boi of,adozen assorted styles 
AMERICAN PENCIL CO., Dept. Hoboken, N. J,
Mahers of UNIQUE Thin Lead Colored 
Pencils20 colors$1.00 per do.
Norwegians Sponsor
Amundsen Memorial
On December, 14, the Little Theater will be the scene of a memorial service in honor of Roald Amundsen. The program is being held under the auspices of the Norwegian Society of Pittsburgh, which has been planning this service since Amundsen gave his life in his search for. the'survivors of the Norge disaster. The . Society, by this service, is endeavoring to show its appreciation of Amundsens heroic self-sacrifice in giving his own life for , Nobile and his party, whose expedition' to the North Pole ended with the wreck of the Norge. When Amundsen disappeared and all hope for his rescue was abandoned, a committee from the Norwegian Society began making plans for this honor to the Norwegian scientist.Programs will be sent to the members of the faculty, all of whom are invited to attend' these .^ervices.
CRAIG RESTAURANT
412 South Craig Street 
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
1^, oprnmiNG DAY akdN IGHT
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
ARTISTS and 
ILLUSTRATORS
POST-SUN Buildinq 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones = GRonl 1654- or 1655
Every Affair
Distinctively Catered 
The mark of distinc
tion is there when we 
cater the affair.
Our aim is to impress 
guests as well as the 
hostess with the charm 
of our service, and we 
succeed.
Menus and estimates 
Submitted without* obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions. 
Weddings a Specialty
Christmas Spending
Dont let your heart run away with your head, 
folks.
Plenty of giftsmost certainlybut gifts of the 
right kindSensible Gifts.
And dont go in debt to splurge.
Give generously within your means, but always 
keep in mind the limits of. your pocketbook.
Remember that TRUE FRIENDSHIP never 
thinks of a gifts MONEY VALUE.
The SPIRIT back of the giving is what counts.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
THE OAKLAND BANK
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Avenue Crosses Forbes Street
Say, Jim, wliat does reversing the 
charges mean?
If youre looking at one of those 
telephone ads, it means that you can 
telephone home without spending 
any money.
You just give the operator the num
ber, tell her to reverse the charge and 
your Dad does the rest!
Suffering Calculus, the good times 
Ive been missing!
Even if youre broke, you can 
telephone homejust tell 
the Operator to reverse 
the Charge

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1928.THK CARNEGIE TARTAN
vyith the drive shown at Notre Dame, there would have been 
a sunset decidedly Plaid.HARD HITTING DRESHARFINAL PLEBE SCORING'LETS GO GOES
Points After Touchdowns ?Forward PassesNameTouchdownsSafetiesLONG LIVE THE PITTSBURGH COPS. These noble 
minions of John Law have the annoying habit of using the 
mace first and asking questions and begging your pardon after
wards.
Armventrout.
DuCanis-___
McCurdy___
Rouncey... 
Ziegler____ 
Ewing 
Baushke__-_
HERES AN EXTRACT from a local paper which ex
presses somewhat our own sentiment: After scanning Sun
days and todays papers on the South Bend setup, I am disap
pointed at not finding more than a word of praise for Cy Letzelter, the boy to whom Steffen handed the ball after the game. 
SCORING two of the four touchdowns, placing the ball 
on the three yard line for the third pass out of Colericks arms 
in back of his own goal line, consistently gaining ground in line 
thrusts, 5>eems not to have been enough. That last straw was 
foujnd in today's Press when a picture of the game shows Cy 
making a pretty run, but unfortunately they call him Rosenzweig.
WITH ALL due respect to Rosenzweig, H^rpster, Karcis and the others, whose efforts were equally enpational, why 
not a word for Lets Go Letzelter?
#AU passes thrown by McCurdy
JUST LIKE DADMrs. Jpnps.'Yes, indcccWwhy, -when we jj4l>y the darlings bottle away, lie ; isivcd to creep idown the cellar stairs.
JUST A{ A LITTLE REWARD for meritorious work the 
plebe cross-Qpijntry squad journeyed to New York oyer the 
Week end, to take part in the I. C. A. A. A. A. eastern chanir 
pionship cross-country meet at Van Courtland Park. The run
ners who made the trip were CAPTA-N REICHORD, Meenan, 
Price, I/ord, Abbott, and Carr.
This meet 'decides the cross-country champions of eastern 
United States and is the mecea for the premier men in that 
sport. The Plaid Frosh ran against some of the tpiighest 
squads in intercollegiate circles including the Penn State and 
N. Y. U. freshmen.
The trip was made via bus, leaving the Smoky City at 
11 oclock Saturday night, arriving at New.York Sunday after
noon, running the course yesterday and back to school this 
afternoon.
JOHN DRESHAR, GUARD AND CENTER, CARNEGIE TECtf
VIOLETS TRIUMPHS OVER 
RED IN IMPORTANT GAME
Sweet, Schttupp for Love well, Ycrina for Highbcrger, Eyth for Moore?, 
bead, Highbergcr for Yerina, Swept 
for Saaffmien&v. Lpvcwell fpr 
Sclmupp, Schnupp for Highbergcr, 
Shaughency for Sweet; New York? 
Riordan for Fo]|et,. Satcnstcin for 
Sargisspi), Robgrts for Stropg, Bliss 
for Grant, Weiner for Lassman, HorInpl. for OHerin, Gatjdct for Hor-r 
me), Ashton for HjJJ, Cestari for 
MyCrs, Riordan for Follet, Marshall 
for Ncmcqk, Roberts for Hill.
Officials: RefereeE. C. Taggart, 
Rochester; XJmpircJ. T. Thorpe, 
Columbia; Head LincsniaiiS. W, 
Morphy, Springfield; Field Judge? 
J. P. Egan, Duqucsnc; Time of pei> 
iods15 minutes.
Short Vamps! 
Round Toes!
(Continued from Page 1)
Oncc more, however, Strong came 
into prominence apd raced , for New 
Yorks fourth and final toucbdow. 
but failed at the try for extra.point.
The game, as a game, was beauti
ful to watch, but as a climax to 
Carnegips season it was 3 disappoint
ment. In the casp of the pjayers, 
especially, it must have been heart
rending to Ibse. After working so: 
hard all season to place Carnegie on 
the pinnacle of the football world' the blow was a hard ope. But next year is another year and, iji. the meantime, let everyone pull for the men who beat W. & J., Pitt, Georgetown and Notre Dame, and lptf np one hang back when cheers are given for the best: football team that ever played under the colors of dear old 
Carnegie.Summary:
Ciirnegie=-13 New York27Rosenzweig -..._L. E,' NemecckSchmidt ......L. TLassmah (c.)Lovewejl --------L. G.----------- MyersMelziner ____-__C--------- SchneiderDrcshar ...~......_.R. G.------- SargissoiiHighbergcr _....R. T;.... GrantSweet ....,__1__R. E.JBarrabeeHarpster (c.) Q-------- OTIerinMoorchead .--,..~L.' H.----- HillLetzelter R. H-------Strong
Kareis .......I'1..... FolletScore by quarters,Carnegie ................. 7 0 0 613... 0 7 1-1 r --27 TouchdownsSweet, Barrabee 2, Strong 2, .Karcis.Points after touchdownLetzelter 1, Strong 2, awarded New York for illegal play by Carnegie 1, ifissed points after touchdown Letzelter 1, Strong 1.Substitutions: CarnegieF}anag<ipfor Rosenzweig, Shaughency for
WITH THEIR TRYING SEASON carried off sitccessfully Coach Halferty decided-not to send the varsity to the 
competition. Penn State is again expected to carry off Senior 
team honors, this year, as they sport one fast, experience^ crowd 
of harriers, including Captain Bill Cox, inter-collegiate cham
pion,
Shoes that are becoming to young feet, and not too hard on the college 
budget! Lots of them at Horne's
Short vamp shoes in oxfords, strdp models, opera pumps, and step-ins.
Short vamp shoes for sports, for 
school, for street, for afternoon, and 
for evening wear.
Short vamp shoes of black, brown, 
blue and green suede, blue kid, brown 
kid, patent leather, black moire, 
black silk crepe, white silk crepe, 
gold kid, and silver kid,
CYRIL LETZELTER, FULLBACK, CARNEGIE TECH
WITH FOOTBALL RAPIDLY WANING, basketball is 
being shyly led to the front of the athletic stage and presented 
for public approval. With the initial game drawing near Coach 
Erwin has been sending his better varsity material through 
light work-out and expects to start them off in earnest within 
a week. As was expected, the coming season does not present 
a very promising array of material, although taking everything 
into consideration there are good grounds for expecting a better 
seastfn than last years washout.
WANTEDA COLLEGE HEAVY
Stand up, you young fellows there, with a ,lot of brawn and a good head on your shoulders. Step, right up for the chance of a lifetime. I'll tejl you a way you cap yakc a million in no time, says uroiver Theis in his article, "Knockouts From the Colleges,' With the retirement of Gene Tunncy, Tex Rickard is looking for a real heavy? -weight champiop-r-maybe from the colleges.- Boxjng in the colleges has enjoyed. an exceptional expansion ip the past few years and is going to 'make' oven rpore rapid advances, J11 tljc Last there annually is an intercollegiate tournament; similar events are conducted by the. con- fercnces throughout tlie country, Colleges are drawing students from constantly widening walks of life, so that Rickard may still find a diploma-bedecked contender in his ring wearing the colors of his Alma Mater. Since CbriMy Mathowson, more of our baseball players have comc from the colleges. Will his? tory rppeflt itself in boxing?,
THOMAS LIPPERT
OCKNE AND MEEHAN were right when 
they said no team has, can, or will be able1 
to keep up the physical and mental pace un
der which the Plaid has labored for the last 
four weeks. (These are not alibis). Person
ally the Editor has not much de'sire, or sees 
little use in commenting upon the defeat. 
The students are disappointed, of course, and 
the team was heartbroken, but that is footJBBB1I1 -w ballsome one has to lose.
PACKED FORBES FIELD saw a listless, battered, Tartan squad face a Meehan 
coached outfit, which outclassed them in every way, shape and 
form. Needless to say, the Violet squad centered around Lass
man and Strong, an ALL American half if there ever was one; 
two men who, together' with Hill, were the downfall of the 
fighting Skibos.
WITHOUT DOUBT the Tartans were as noble in defeat 
as they have been in victory. Playing a game which they knew 
was lost, they fought as hard in the last period as the first.
The desire was there to win but it seemed impossible for them
to get it out. Rosenzweig was in bad shape all week, Eyth 
played with one arm and the whole squad was in a mental let 
down, which is always fatal to a grid eleven.* * * * * * *
ALL THE TARTANS played pitifully under their game. 
Tony Sweet. Dreshar, and Shaughnessy were undoubtedly the 
outstanding Plaid performers of the day. Evth's gritty exhibi
tion won him the admiration of players and spectators alike.* * * *  , * * .
PITTSBURGH PAPERS^always support a winner. The 
New York papers gave us better breaks than the home town 
sheets. While N. Y. U. was breezing through a comparatively 
easy schedule, Carnegie was battling in weekly succession the 
outstanding aggregations in the East. No team can keep up 
the grind scheduled for the Skibos without much luck or divine 
help, neither of which can be relied upon.. Taken as it is, we 
see absolutely no reason to be ashamed of the record the Crim
son warriors made.
PLEBE BASKETBALL ASPIRANTS are urged to report 
for the first practice on Monday. Any first year men who have 
played, wish to play, or think they can play, are urged fo report 
at the gym where Coach Erwin will start them through the pre? 
liminary training. Again we- urge. ireshmcn who are not ath
letes but still have a craving for a C, and athletic honor, to 
report 4s managers, Come to the gym any afternoon, the sooner 
the better for you..Joseph Horne CoTHE VARSITY RIFLERS shot their first practice match 
last week, the scores being considerably higher than previous 
years pre-season shooting. Weekly practice matches will con
tinue until the intercollegiate shoots start in about a month. 
The varsity will journey to the U. S. Naval Acadepny around 
the middle of January for a m^tch with Uncle >ams Midcjips, 
whom they have defeated for the last two years. With an ex
cellent array of crack shots available the varsity team expects 
to make this season the most successful in school history.Frank and ErnestBy BRIGGS
THE [RANGE light now is undergoing repairs which makes 
shooting exceptionally difficult. Within a week Carnegie ex
pects to have the best collegiate range in eastern United States.
An exceptionally large number of freshmen have reported 
for rifle, much to the joy- of the freshman manager and the dis^ 
gust of the assistant managers, However the first match will 
eliminate all but a few so there is always room for new men. 
No past experience is necessary, so report, you may be future 
Dewar material.
THEY TOOK. 5IX BOUj*> ! AND 
COULD HAUE FoacED A iEU/UTHFive 7AR99EXD RI
^INCSLC HLe 
CP.03SIMC A 
BRIDGE.. . WHAT 
TIME IS IT?J------
TIN
AFTER
TINHOUJ DO VOU GET 
DOWW FfcOW AW 
etePHfNT FRANK.?
[ YOU DO AJ T 
E R.N E ST  
/ VOU CrET 
Douw FR.O fA 
Pt DUCK !
WOMENS ATHLETICS
BOWLING
Today and tomorrow witnesses the close of the Women's BowUng season. This, the final week, is given over to a tournament between the different class  teams. After live weeks- of practice the .following teams were chpscu; Senators, Irene La Lojidc, Captain; Helma VVeisburg, Ludmilla Allen, Mary Alice James and Helen Ehm as substitute; Junior team, Frances 
Ludlow, Captain; Nell Ulrich, Vera Fmkelstein, Fat Montgomery, Helen ICrafchycliyn, Mary Crago, Helen-_Whitehi.il, Agnes Power and Helen Boyd as substitute; Sophomore team, Grace Borgerding, Captain; Katherine Palen, Isobel Levin, Eleanor Lemon, Doris Mather, 
Minnie Opter, Ruth Buekwalter, Salome Wright, and Ivatheryn Kun- zler for substitute; Freshman team, Elisabeth Luley, Captain; Floy Sample, Winifred O'Neill, Eleanor lvutehka, Dorothy Caiey, Lois McGregor, Elsie Guggenheim, Sally 
Turner, Margaret Hopkins as substitute.
Games in this tournament are to be played either Tuesday or Wednesday afternoon from 2:30 to 6:30 at the Knights of Columbus Bowling All^y, Each girl on a team is, to play three games and give her score sheets to the manager, Helen 
Whitchill. At the Senior team- has four members, they will be required to play six games each, in order to compete with the other 
teams which arc composed of eight members. These games may be played any time during the two days. It is also required that the captain of the team or the manager be present while these games are being played.
SWIMMING
Dorothy Lynch, at a meeting of the W. A. A. November 19, was elected swimming manager for 1928- ]_929; Dorothy Lynch is a senior P. and D. student, and has disUnguished herself in. many swimming activities. She has already been awarded for her. skill in life saying the insignia of tjic National Red Cross Life Saving organisation.- - -
Swimming will soon take its place 
on the W. A. A. calendar. The season will start within the  next two weeks and continue until the last of March, Everyone, coining out- for. swiniining must report to the manager on what days she will practice: practice periods are offered any time there i a swimming class. All girls are urged to make swimming a popular sport this season? A swimming meet will be held at the end of the season.RIFLE
Varsity practice for the Wopiens Rifle Team begins this week in the range in the basement of Margaret Morrison. The range is open from 3:30 to 6:00 every Wednesday and Friday afternoon. Classes for beginners have been held for thd lapt two weeks, instruction being given by _ Lieutenant Arrowemith and Major Taylor. All girls who were out for practice last year hould report to lint range for practice is soon as possible and start practice. The rifle range is in a rather tomup condition at prcpcnti owing to some improvements which arc being made, but these will soon be complete and the range will bt found to be in a much better condition than ever before.NOTICE
All girls who have participated in W. A. A. activities arc requested to report at the Gymnasium office and tell either Dotty Roy or Pat Montgomery what gportg they have gone out for, as well as how many points they have earned. This request is made to help those who wrll make the awards, for there arc many omissions and mistakes in points, which it is necessary to straighten out. Please co-operati and report as soon as possible.
THIS HALFBACK Strong is absolutely thp neatest ball 
carrier we haye ever seen. With his full speed turns and elusive 
side stepping it took a good man to figure out where he was 
going and how to stop him when he went there.
* * * * * * *
THE N. Y. U. sure, took their share of the half. Neverthe
less they couldnt be compared to the Kilties in music and ap
pearance, all of which shows quality versus quantity.
And, incidentally, _ it took the Kilties about one-third the 
time to form N. Y. U.. as it did the Violets own band.*******
THE NEW YORKERS were at the game full force, spats, 
raccoon coats, liquid refreshments, 'n everything. This Metrapolitan polish, dont you knowli* * * * * * *
FORBES FIELD was literally stripped and it looked for 
av/hile as if the goal posts were also gonners. However we 
cant deny them a few remembrancesits so very seldom they 
have the chance.********
IN THE FINAL PERIOD a N. Y. U. onlooker rushed on 
the field and .battered up Strongs face. N. Y. U. kicked off 
from the 25 yard line as a penalty. Why he socks his own 
player we dont know. Queer people, these New Yorkers.* * ~ * * * * *
THERE IS THE POSSIBILITY that Carnegie may yet 
get the TOURNAMENT OF ROSES. The lucky team will re
ceive the invitation in a few days.*******
THE CHARACTERISTIC MEEHAN military formation 
is disconcerting to the opposing team to say the least. The 
huddle, then the perfectly timed swing gives the impression of 
one team getting- a head start 011 the other. Each man would 
count in an undertone, sometimes two, sometimes four, and 
even up to eight, keeping their opponent constantly on edge, as 
to when to charge. Besides being novel, it is good football. *******
Some writers claim that the Plaid could never have beaten 
the Violet, but we say that if they had met three weeks ago
GV ,>E US- NY- >EXKlTTEMS irO ,>E
ovenJ, \ajhat WOULD 
They 8e ? j^
V8iG18let P0 Urumpih Vsvdn11 dah G2 vI 
8if GOLD 06ARTT 
LIKE A H^RD- . 
BOILED e<?G ?
Yes, sgMG ubno
Gold RI ->EL
THAR PILLS !j
EMSYDE e
IT C^N'T
E ESAvi lavi7he Smoother and Better Cigarette 
not a cough in a carloadO P. Lorillard Co., Ett, 1760
SATURDAYTHE WEARY SCOTCHMAN STUMBLED

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 15.
I'HONE MAYFLOWKK 3WI0 
Publlnbcd onco every weok durlntf Um 
colloco year by undowaduatep of Carne! 
Instituto of Tonlinolojiy. Eritorod in the 
Pittsburgh Pont Offlco im ocond-clitun matter.
THINK IT OVER
THE
Editor-in-Chicf.Plaid Editor____ijusincsr Manager.
Managing Editor.N^ws Editor.___Womens Editor. Athletic Editor... Alumni Editor........
STAPF
.Stewart C. Ralston Edw. E. McDonald James H. Seibert 
William McNeill____Ruth Bramson______Dorothy RoyThomas W. Lippcrl ..Charles R, Nelson
Forlorn Figures
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Helen Reed Engine jarcmaHelen Booth Hyman J. LevinsonHelen Whitehill Kathryn ODonnell
CONTItlBtlTING SDITOKS 
Nathan Miller Joe B. 'attersonSara E. Wonders Alex M. FisherElizabeth SchlcBinger
.TUNIOR EDITORS 
Rosemary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland Jacob Carpe Henry L. Bunker, Jr.Catherine 'Boyd
PLAID NEWS STAFF
News Editor______A. M. KirchnerArt___________________C. Carnivalc
Engineering- Industries-----
_E. T. Molyneaux _____J. S. Geyser
REPORTERS 
f. J. Boyle D. K. Tomer
M. Eckels N. Kline G. M. Wilson L. I. Shusset W. L. Myers
I M. Baugh E. J. Dattisman G. ii. Mcrrin V. I. Morgan 
. II. BarrI. Levin 
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS 
Helen Zcleznjak Pearl GoldbergLudmilla Allen Mary Gordan
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Advertising Mgr----Robert H. WehrleDavid H. Genter Willis M. Crosby John Wright 
.Michael Malinich Carl BlassCirculation Assts-----S. A. ButtonariA. Frank E. G. MillerV. P. Jones D. W. Seville________H. M. Rosenberg _
Assistant:...
Circulation Mgrs._.
OfflcoRoom 12. Induutrlcu BulldlnK. Offlco Hour-Monday to Thurndnyn, 12:30. 
1:20, Pnpor made up Friday, 12:30-6:00.
To lnuuro publication on tlio uuccccdini! 
Tucnday, new Item munt bo In tho Mtudont 
prjii oirico or Tnrtnn OUlco before 4:30 
Thursday.
After offlcc houru, call
Editor............................._____Oakmont GG7-W
...............I, I, ,......... -:._-Mnyflnwni- H321
Plaid Editor____________________Atlantic 1300...Scbonloy 23HU
Bunlnunn ManaRor..........^......Scbonloy 0211
Advortliilnif Managor..,...~....Schcnloy 1)082
RUSHING SEASON
Saturday morning marked the opening of the fraternity rushing season and by this time the plebcs are probably becoming a little better accustomed to the Hood of attention which they arc receiving. They should make the most of this opportunity to learn all they can about the different fraternities, whether or not" ihey will pledge themselves to membership. At this time a freshman enjoys the unique 'distinction of being able to accept countless invitations without in any manner obligating himself, and the wise plebe will accept the 
situation as a chance to learn what he may never again be in a position to discover about Carnegie's fraternities. Jt is dccidedly unwise for any man to permit one house to monopolize his time during this two-wook period, and all freshmen 
should be on their guard against any infringement of the rushing regulations. Any fraternity guilty 
of breaking the rules, whether they be detected or not, violates a confidence and rightly deserves to be 
considered untrustworthy by other fraternities and by freshmen alike. The present rushing regulations must be obeyed while they arc in force,
RENEWED TRADITIONS
This year marks the renewal of two of Carnegie's traditional spring functionsthe Arts Ball and the Science Stag. Due to financial difficulties and a lack of organization, these two affairs were allowed to die last year, but they have been again given lifl* and the evening of February 15 will find the Arts students and the Engineers once more engaged in their own peculiar celebrations. Active committees have been appointed for both affairs, and the work of planning these separate college functions is progressing. It is good that happy traditions be maintained on the campus, but a growing tendency toward moderation is becoming apparent. Already there is talk of holding the Ball only on alternate years, and such may likewise be the fate of the famous Stag. Much depends upon the success of these functions this year. It has practically been decided to forego the Industries Smoker this year, which would place it in the same precarious position. Whatever the outcome, the decision should be the result of careful consideration. It may indeed be wise to not attempt balls and smokers too frequently, particularly during these periods of ever-increasing activities. This year, however, the Arts Ball and the Scicnce Stag will be held, and the students of the schools concerned welcome back these lost functions to the social calendar.
Consequently, modern man has no 
right to boast himself far better 
than his fathers"in intrinsic qual
ity. Intrinsically, i. e., apart from the effects of culture and socialtraining, it is probable that he isslightly inferior in capacity to his own ancestors; while very markedly inferior to the great races of antiquity (like the Greeks) in their hey-day. Nor is there any reasonto suppose that his moral nature has changed materially. Modern man may be a little tamer and better-tempered, because he has been herded together much more closely than primitive man, and city life, even in the slums, demands and produces a certain "urbanity. ' For many generations those who would not pack tight and cquld not stand the strain of constantly exhibiting "company manners" and accommodating their action to those of their fellows, must have fled away into the wilds, where they could be independent, or have eliminated thcmsclycs in other ways, g., by committing murder."Nevertheless, there is little^ doubL that, in the main, humanity is still Yahoo-manity. Alike in mentality and in moral, modern man is still substantially identical with his pa- laeolithis ancestors. He is still the 
irrational, impulsive, emotional, foolish, destructive, cruel, credulous crea- turc he alv/ays was. Normally the Yahoo in him is kept under control by the constant pressure of a variety of social institutions, but let any
thing upset an established social order, and the Yahoo conies to the front at once. The history of the past SO years abundantly proves that man is still capable of atrocities equal to any in his record. Not only have we lived through the greatest political and the -deadliest natural convulsions, the Great war and the Tokio earthquake, but the Russian Revolution has outdone the French, and Landru the legendary Bluebeard, while for mingled atrocity and baseness the murders of Rasputin and of Alexander of Serbia, arc unsurpassed in history. The painful truth is that civilization has not improved Mans moral nature. .His moral habits are still mainly matters of custom, and the cffect of moral
theories is nugatory everywhere. This civilization is not even skin deep; it does not go deeper than the clothes."Clearly, it is risky to expose the inclastic nature of so stubbornly conservative a creature to new conditions at a rapid rate. He may not be able to adapt himself quickly enough, and his old re-actions, which did little or no harm before, may become extremely dangerous. Yet this is just what has happened; Science has exposed the palacolithis savage masquerading in modern garb 
to a series of physical and menial shocks, which has endangered his equiiibrum. It has also enormously extended his power and armed him with a variety of delicate and penetrating instruments which have often proved edge tools in his hands and which the utmost wisdom could hardly be trusted to use aright. Under these conditions the fighting instinct ceases to be an antiquated foible, like the hunting instinct, and bccomcs a deadly danger. No wonder the more prescient are dismayed at the prospect of the old savage passions running amuck in the full panoply of civilization.
"Our civilization, therefore, carries with it it the seeds of its own decay and destruction, and it docs not require high prophetic gifts to prcdict the future of a race which goes the way marked out for it by such perversely suicidal institutions. It cannot improve, but must degenerate, and the only question would seem to be whether the decadance of Man w,ill leave him viable as a biological species, At present it looks very much as though his blind leaders would lead their blinder followers from catastrophe to catastrophe, through imperialist world-wars to class-wars and to racc-wars; but even if, by some miraculous rally of human intelligence, these convulsions should be averted,, the prospect will not really be improved. The violent destruction of the human race by war will only be more dramatic; it will not be more fatal than its gradual decay as its arts and sciences slowly fossilize, or peter our, in an overwhelming flood of feeble-mindedness. 
Schillers Tantalus.
the rolling stock, similar to that .n operation by the Pullman Company, is being followed. Reports show that "Tom," "Harvey and Nicholas" are kept in the wheelbarrow garage as well. Observers have as yet been unable to learn the names of the motor lawn- mowers, though it is rumored that the smaller man-power machines are merely numbered.
A WAR MEMORIAL
There seems to be one memorial lacking on the Carnegie Campus. Other schools have erected fitting memorials to the memory of those who went "over there" back in 1,918 or thereabouts, yet Carnegie, who perhaps gave as great a proportion as any college to the service of her country, lias as yet never made any recognition of the service of 
those men.Recently the Carnegie chapter of Scabbard and Blade, National Honorary Military Fraternity, decided to sponsor a movement for some kind of a war memorial. Suggestion was made that the remembrance be in  the form of something other than a tablet or similar purely decorative expression. The most practicable of the suggestions offered, in view of the relative youth of the school which would deter the successful collection of a very large sum of money, seems to be that a set of chimes be donated to the school and allow the school ofii- cials to decide a fitting place for them to be installed. This suggestion has been in the minds of a number of people connected with 
the school, and would admirably suit the purpose and limitations of the plan. Other forms of memorials suggested were such things as a building of some type, an entrance gateway at some point on the campus, a handsome bronze-faced clock to be placed conspicuously on one of the buildings, or a "Carnegie" library to be known as our \\_r memorial.Plans for the memorial arc just being formulated and as yet nothing definite has been decided. However, this movement should be gotten under way as soon as possible and it is expected will meet with the unanimous approval of both the faculty and the student body. Donations will be requested and the responsibility of the success or failure of the campaign will rest largely on the student body.. When the form which the memorial is to take has been definitely fixed, more direct steps can be taken in regard to raising the, necessary funds.Suggestions in regard to the memorial by the students, or anyone interested, will be gladly received by the Carnegie Military Department.A. M. F.
STUDENTS LOBBIES
CARNEGIES "DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Mention has frequently been made of the numerous improvements in landscaping on the campus, and Seniors will recall the Campus Week incident which formally created a "Department of Agriculture with the famous "Dean Fritz" at its head. The well-known and equally well-enjoyed "D :an has; if anything, even improved his remarkable technique in the creation of natural beauty at Carnegie. The desire for modern efficiency, In his department seems to have caused the adoption of new business methods by the renowned Fritz. One of the departments 1928 model wheelbarrows has been noticed to bear the name "Fred, and it is supposed that a system of naming
Carnegie men a^id women speak with pride, if their friends ask of their cherished school. There is no hesitation to speak of the high caliber instruction given, the large amount of equipment, the reputation of the Institution, or above all the type of graduates going forth er.^h year.But if many experienced the feeling that the writer did recently they would feel ashamed to speak of a sad condition present on our Campus. The writer is thinking of the club rooms or lobbies both in the Engineering and Administration buildings. The embarrassment was not due to any statements made but to the look of amazement upon his friend's face.Perhaps it might bo. well to speak of a few of the present conditions. In the first place the number of tables are inadequate. Moreover the chairs are not the proper kind. They have to be placed near the table at an angle in order that one might write. It is a decided discomfort to sit in such a manner. 
Furthermore, there is not an ample
receptacle to handle the waste paper. As a result lunch paper and other- refuse litters the floor.
In general the existing conditions seem to have a destructive cffect upon the attitude of the students to cause little respect for the club rooms. It is the opinion of the one who depicts this condition that the students could be made to ap-r predate and respect the lobbies ii the proper atmosphere were obtained. The writer therefore pro poses that as a probable solution lhat a certain amount of the breakage fee be taken for this purpose. As previously mentioned this might create a sense of pride in having part ownership. Amplifying furtlt upon the percentage of breakage fee idea, the writer suggests that certain amount be taken from the fcv; each year and put in a fund for such purposes, The details and handling of the matter could be left to the Student Council.If the aforesaid plan docs not seem feasible, it is hoped that some steps be taken that will change the present deplorable condition of the club rooms.J. II. F
LIBERAL CLUBS
Co//eg/a& c/S&cove at 
/etter /ie jus^t /nas/ed
/eyue& yor /no/zet/.
An organization which stimulates progressive thought on the part of the students is an asset to a university.
We shall always find two schools of thinkers: the conservatives and the liberals. The former group will ever be assailed as stagnatcrs and reactionaries, and the latter group as radicals and rebels.
The question arises: Is it advisable to implant liberal thoughts in the mind of the college student? To a degree it is. We say this because we feel the average college graduate, although more amenable to innovations of thought and institutions than the layman, is still too complacent and uninventive, considering his background.This stagnancy is attributed to two major influences: first, indolent nature; second, an over-conservative mind. It is difficult to combat with human nature and so . e dismiss the_ first cause. But certainly the university is responsible for the second.After all, the everlasting supply of knowledge according. for past and present phenomena and. institutions exerts an immensely sobering and lethargic effect. If we are not excited by a vibrant, external stimulus, we are destined to a state of passivity and boredom. A little contact with contemporary liberalism in politics and economics stirs us from our stupor, It awakens? our dormant senses to the realization that even today things are happening. We are induced to associate the experience of the past with the problems of the present. We are prompted to apply our book theories to the current political, economic, and . social problems. This all means progressive thinking.
Granted, over-liberalism leads to fanaticism and narrow-mindedness. But with such a prodigious sobering forge as knowlcdgu which the university offers, we have little fear of over-liberalism.New York University Daily News.
Right now Carnegie is in the midst of her third deferred rushing season, and the meek and humble plebcs are ruling, the campus. To the fraternity man, rushing season is an annual, necessary evil; to the aforementioned plebe; it is somer thing new and glorious. He appreciates the exaggerated hospitality, accepts the unusual , courtesies as a matter of course, and does his best to be nonchalant.We would like to give a little advice to the freshmen and warn them, if. possible, just what to expect. Therell be many dances, mokers and dinner parties. You arc supposed to be allowed to study after 9 p. m., but you wont. Some aspiring fraternity man will park .n your room until the wee hours, and you'll be too polite to tell him to run. About the first of the second week of necessary festivities, youll be led off into some room uprstairs in the carnival house where you have been enjoying yourseU, and some kind, well-meaning brother will harangue along the following lines:Now, Jim, weve all been watching' you for the past few days, as you have no doubt noticed. We like you, Jim, think that we could do you some good, (discount that) and believe you could do some good for us. (He has no doubt heard that your dad is rich.) You know, every fellow that conies to a college likes to make the best associations possible, and, for a real good, all-around bunch, there isnt another house on the campus like the Ski Hus. Ask anyone what they think of our bunch. There are no cliques in this house. Weve got athletes, politicians, (they all have those, plebe, and they're bad) writers, and actors, just a real bunch, see?"Now there's Jakeyou know Jake Zowie, the big guy with the black curly hairwell, lie was on the varsity football squad all year. Of course, he didnt play, but the coaches were holding him as a psychological threat. Had the other teams scared to death.I could talk All night about the boys here, and alumni. We have the best in the country: Long.Chaney, Rin-Tin-Tin and Santa Claus are all Ski His."And it doesnt cost near as much to live here as it does in the dorms (discount that, loo). Were a little low financially now because we just bought a rug or two, but the assessment isnt much.^nd we do have a good house. So howd you like to join us? *"What, you want to hear from home? Why, when your folks hear of our advantages, theyll put you
Chicago.-The greatest artistic era in the history of the United States is not far off, according to Professor DcWitt Henry Parker of. the University of Michigan, who spoke here. He said:
History ^ shows that periods of nigh artistic activity usually coin
cide with epochs of political and commercial pre-ehiincnce and into the latter we have already come.
"For better or for worse we have lef the day of the whole man' behind. In the growing complexity 
ot civilization the problems of life have become so difficult and so numerous that in order to meet 
them each man must apply his
right in. So I know everything v.!!l be O. K., so Ill just put the button on your lapel------And then, oh mighty freshmen, youll tumble off your throne, and youll be a pleuge. You'll feel high and lofty, youll stick your button forward f.qr a few days, and youll- jsmile . graciously, when congratula-r tions are over. But youll soon ltain that we arent joking: and it won't be long now.. . r 
Once upon a time, in near-by Dormont, a little tad-pole was born who wanled to learn. He didn't want to learn only mathematics but craved knowledge ot everything. So he swam irom place to place from day to day making in
quiries as to why is this and how much is that. It wasnt long' until ne became the village wisc-crackei and really was the liie of the party. He was never alone, the girls all sought him, the boys all envied him. He was joke editor :of his high school weekly, and his: teachers predicted great things for, him when lie went to college.Finally he did - go to a tad-pole college way down in Virginia, stayed there awhile, then packed up stakes and headed for Ohio. All the time, however, he kept his wise-cracking personality subdued;
Then he came to Carnegie, joined a fraternity, and went out for activities. He remembered his secret ambition, and decided that his wisecracking ability-should assert itself Twas then that our little tad-pole, now grown up, went out for the Puppet. His first two years were laden with hard work, and his only reward was an occasional articlc published with his initials under it. But last year glory was not denied him. He was elected to the editorial staff and chosen as one of the editors. At last he had become, not only a grown-up tad-pole, but a fraternity man and a successful wisc-cracker.* * * * *
Snapshots seen while strolling about the campus: A new girl inthe Registrars office; youthful wag crossing out the ts on the Wet Paint sign at Cedar Hall, leaving only We Pain, quite an admission for dormitory girls^ the dancing dramats; the Sophomore with the brilliant red hat, who confesses that he doesnt wear, it for initiation purposes; hairpins in the M. M. C. C. drinking- fountains; Margaret Morrison lassies gazing at secret practice from their prison walls; an dtlie Chairman of the Y. W. C. A. drive hang.ng brilliant, green, curtains in her room at Forbes Hall the Monday after the Notre Dame game.
The annual Campu6 -Week conflict has been resumed. The usual amount of.petitions and hot air is being passed around. Perhaps if some one would publish an itemized statement of the objections that arc offered to this traditional festivity, .we might be able to find out what its all about. For two years weve been questioning people whom we thought might know something about the matter, but all we have been able to hear was snatch phrases, concerning "alumni and "nefarious influences and "heavy experiences,' and et cetera. No one seems to have very definite ideas on the subject, except that for the sake of thd. general cause, we should all proclaim very loudly that we are getting an exceedingly raw deal.*****
The only event of the Coal Conference that we were able to attend was the lecture on "The Fourth Kingdom" by Dr. Slosson. We have read some of his books from time to time and always imagined that he would be a very amusing and interesting speaker. We certainly werent the least bit disappointed. His lecture was most edifying and yet so non-tcchnical that it could be enjoyed by anyone who hadnt the slightest knowledge 
of chemistry. We now have a new conception of a Utopian school, where all the professors would be as nearly like Dr. Slosson as possible. Classes even in such unmentionable subjects as "trig and physics would have to be held in Syria . Mosque* with perhaps overflow meetings in Soldiers Memorial Hall.*****
How does everyone like the idea of the Tartan and Pitt Weekly staffs changing places? From all reports the plan is really going through, and were beginning to get just a little worried for fear that once youre rid of us you wont want us back. Please be patient, however,-'and well do our best to improve.**.* **-
The Maggie Murplis must again return to their usual life of ennui. With the closing of the football season;' their amusement will have to be obtained from such commonplace entertainments as gazing at the pickled specimens in bioiogy lab and the watching the R. O. 1'. C. drill. Incidentally, the new uniforms 'arc perfectly stunning. Until next year, there will be no more ropc-juinping Athlete's to adore and no more poor little mud- soaked boys to pity. >eats on the window siils will no longer be at a premium, and there will be no compensation whatsoever for having classes after- 3:30. c* * * * *
At the beginning of the semester, when the idea of Writing this column was originally conceived, we had hopes to be able to give passing remarks on all the new books we had read. The idea is now laughable. We dont even know what a new book looks like any more. In attempting to complete at least half of the work that were supposed to do, even such, formerly dear friends as Judge, Vanity Fair and the Mercury have to be neglected. We are positively growing stagnant in our noble effort to become a skilled Technician. We have lost all contact with the outside world.
CONTRIBS
whole nature to a single one of 
them, at the cost of integrity of 
personality. Losing the whole
ness which is- so characteristic of; 
beauty, and being only fractions, of: 
our possible selves, we are. loaded 
with longings and repressions and 
disfigured with strange inequalities 
of character.
Mechanism will go on its unrepentent way, but play and art will 
bring us the freedom which we 
lack. There is a child within usjthat protests against a clock-driven 
regiment. Play and art furnish, a solution, give us back our wholeness. Play is the antibody pro-: duced by our diseased civilization.The harmony which we achievej through play is accomplished by an exclusion of worry and work. The harmony of art is one of inclusion, in which the- whole ' re
sources of our personalities are: called into action. But, while in forms of play and sport it is conceded that America stands the peer of any nation on earth, in art, if we take the sweep of the last luin-. died years, she has, not matched the most artistically gifted nations of Europe.
"We are now fast building a tradition and a culture of our own. 
The mechanical nature of our civilization has created a need for art. And that secure hold on economic 
wealth so necessary,for artistic culture has been won. Need and opportunity will combine to make the future of art in America immense.'
Brookwoodour only labor college of importanceis under - fire. Matthew W"oll vice president of the American Federation of Labor is responsible for the decision of
the Executive Council to-ask affili
ated unions to withdraw their sup
port from the college. The col
lege is being charged with antireligious and pro-Soviet leanings. 
But who investigated the institu
tion and upon what evidence the 
charges are based neither students 
nor faculty nor board of directors 
Can tell.
Fortunately there was a great' 
deal of protest against this sum
mary action and President William 
Green has promised Brookwood 
College that no final action will 
be taken until members of 1 the Executive Council have had ample opportunity to acquaint themselves with the protests filed." We are happy to find Mr. Green so easily won over to the principle of collective bargaining. Autocratic control of the intellectual life would seem ot be the furthest from labors policy, judging from the fact that the laboring man continually fights against monopoly in distribution oi the material benefits of life. A labor collcge should indeed be a mode] of democracy in education, especially since labor often suffers an intellectual eclipse in the ; gular colleges. Brookwood has during the seven years of its life been such a democratic college. Faculty and studens share in the schools government; all points ol view are .given a hearing, and it has-been inevitable that a few Communists should be fouhd within Brookwoods walls. It will be unfortunate if this freedom is curtailed. A Brookwood under the j thumb of a Matthew Woll will be of no more significance to true education than a public utility course at the University of Pennsylvania.
During these many weeks of suspension followed by the great joy of victory it seems that the student body could not settle down to reflect upon the status of Campus Week. Some thinking on the subject may be necessary before many more weeks pass by.To those who arc in the upper classes Campus Week brings back cherished and. refreshing memories., If the incoming' plebs experience this tradition, they too; will vouch that 'it is a thing distinct to Carnegie Tcch.As the Engineers, Industries men, the Arts students, or the Margaret Morrison girls, slowly and doggedly plow through- their work and draw near A at the-end of a years labor that was, a mighty burden upon their shoulders, it seemed mat Campus Week added the last spark that caused the human ele- nient to brisk up once more. - It seemed that Campus Week afforded a little period of relief just before making, the -final plunge toward a. completing of the years work. The 
things  mentioned here are not : to be construed as' a bewilderment but as an attempt to show that Campus Week has a place-on; this campus.It -was with rare interest this summer that the writer -listened to his college friends elsewhere speak of their "May Day' as they, called; it.- Their stories were interesting; their fond tradition, which- they spoke of, was alluring. But his mind turned back in the end to our cherished , tradition and there seemed to dance with glee within the inner workings of his mind a thing more intriguing and above all a thing more uniqueour springtime -frolic.Last year the period was shortened one day, thereby losing only one day of school. This does not secm.to.be out of the bounds ot reason. Yet there occurs each year a few things which perhaps tend to mar the purpose of Campus Week. These things seem inevitable, however, No doubt the administration thinks that matters have been carried too far-by a few or that certain practices have been carried too far.
Whatever was the main reason for the. action of the administration, it is sincerely hoped that'they can. see Campus Week in a new light.MUST BE TRUTHFUL
the coming years there will | 
be a great call and an opportunity 
in this country for judicious and 
broad-gauged conduct df foreign 
affairs.
As a people we' have for long 
been accused of insularity and 
provincialism. This fact, for such 
it is, is rather paradoxical, inas
much as our population has been 
drawn from every far corner of the 
globe. Even the Indians, as the 
anthropologists aver, wondered into 
the states. Yet, . the broad 
oceans surrounding served effec
tive in cutting off cultural influ
ences from the older continents. 
The melting-pot began to simmer 
and boil into one conglomerate stew the traccs of other national sentiments.
To be sure, there were groups that cherished fond memories of home ' lands, but just as the setting: sun sends up its last rays in the brightest effulgence of the whole day immediately before it sets, just so' Germans and Italians and Russians pathetically strove to rescue the fond debris of the old country here. But in the amalgam of the work of corn and wheat-growing and railroad-build- incr and steel-fabricating and trading in a. land where nature was- not niggardly, and priest and ruler not tyrannically oppressive, the older 
elements faded out.
The building of a . continent was 
work and toil. Play and the free striving of the spirit for utterance beyond the day were frowned upon as frivolous and decadent. Gentler, finer spirits who wished to court the muses were unable, to command much respect in ; vanic, noisy workshop and so .fled to England or Germany for inspiration. Passing through a succession of crises, we finally bound together the ends of the nationwith bands of steel within and .a spirit of 
economic exclusiveness through the tariff toward the other nations without. Leaving for ourselves j feeble and awkward cultural c pression. Like children we set out distill from out of the wide fields of the West and the' sprawling towns of the East, some figure and token of the meaning of America. This is coming to pass only now in the third century of independent American life.And where did we turn to find the brightest fount of tales and verse and melody to occupy the newly-found hours of leisure? Strangely enough, not to the tradi
tional European cultures any more but to the bizarre, primitive and throaty expressions of the Negro.' In this we delight like newly-freed laborers with cacaphonous and shrill noises and , half-boisterous, half supplicating gestures to the spirits of chance whom we worship like the Negro at the card table, at the playing field and in the stock market.Meanwhile, we have grown wantonly careless and unresponsive to the rest of the older worlds 'of thought and literature ' and life. Most of these peoples  are now, looked upon as poor relatives or as weak, prey to a dollar diplomacy; The ignorance displayed by our elected officials as well as the man the street toward the ' rest of mankind is abysmal. Swelled with pride and prosperity, our foreign affairs are conducted in a scandalously ..inefficient and callous manner. Markets for our products and sources of investment of our surplus capital, these we seek out with great avidity,, but when it comes to recent. international political dealings, we have tended to fall into the old and tried chauvinistic and hypocritical attitudes of. the powerful nations of old.Consider, for example, the League of Nations which we hatched and then abandoned without support or blessing upon the rest of the world, and the Monroe Doctrine around which we allow a sacred inviolability to adhere without rhyme or reason. We protest an attachment to the ideals of the Spanish-Ameri- can countries, the while we filch
from the smaller Central-Amerlc.an 
nations their resources and beat 
them up patronizingly in  the 
process. The Japanese, than whom 
there re fewer more honorable 
peoples, we insult by non-inclusion 
in the immigration laws. There is 
also a recently signed Kellogg 
Peace Pact, in the light of which 
we prepare more and stronger 
arms.
It will be protested that this is 
"realpolitik in a world where there 
is envy and- competitive striving.' 
This, however, has always been the 
apologia of the Caesars and Kais
ers. Our traditions do not wel
come this fall into empire build
ing. Instead there is a great op
portunity for us to set an exam
ple in the desire for peace and understanding of other peoples of the world, most of whom nourished and fed our ancestors long ago.The masses here have nqthing but good will toward foreign'' peoples. The suspicion therefore arises inevitably that we have a poor set of officials conducting oreign relations. Not that we in this country are plagued with the wily high-hat intriguers of old. We have rather entrusted these highly important matters to narrow- minded^ provincial men, illy-prepared or in the hands of cramped: souls like successful corporation lawyers or Babbit super-merchants, whose knowledge of the language and history of their own peoples, let alone that of other peoples is often astounding.-
N. M.
G. WELLS PLEAS FOR 
A WORLD COMMONWEAL
THINKING IT THROUGH
- What -is the defendants reputation for veracity?" asked the judge."Excellent, your Honor, said.tht witness. Ive known him to admit that he had been fishing- all day and hadnt got a single bite."
One of the younger -professors at McGill, when speaking to a group of freshmen last week said: If you would be true, students^ you should have among your Univer-: sity_ Clubs not only the Student Christian Association, but the Student Buddhist and Student Con- fusianist Associations also. By this lie meant that if students want to learn the truth about religion and life, they' will have to dig into it for themselves, here and now, abandoning all preceptions.Here is a most daring adventure, and we wonder how many people would be willing to try it. Most students begin to doubt much thal they have previously accepted soon after entering college, but in their new ideas they rarely take that trouble to go beyond the stage of mere devastating doubt. The-pro- fessor mentioned above implied that in the new outlook on life and relations -with other men with- new views, students should go to the bed rock of life and test the valid ity of his philosophy, which now has either to go by the boards or be reconstructed.We would like to congratulate the S. C. A. this year on its policy of groups meeting for the purpose of free discussion on different viewpoints. We understand that some groups have been formed consisting of both Jews and Christians to study the question of comparative religions. It is surely in frank meetings of this sort that understanding of sometimes opposed viewpoints can result. We would like to insist, however, that it is the duty of' every student at Uni versity to think out for himself the problem that he has become cognizant of through his opportunity of higher education. There 
is no attitude._so easy as that of simple doubt, and nothing so helpful as constructive thought.McGill Daily.
The Open; Conspiracy. By : H. G. . Wells. Garden City: Doubleday,Doran. 1928. 200 pp.These, Blue Prints for a World Revolution, ' as' the author phrases his subtitle, is a plea for and an outline of a vvoi"lii commonweal. Those who are already familiar with this writer's works will not be startled, for in these blue prints will be found the . concise expression of the many unconventional views' previously encompassed in Ins novels, short stories, historical and economic treatises.In a chapter headed "The Frame of the Task before Mankind, is to be found this biunt denunciation of our present political condition.". . . . The fundamental organization of contemporary states is still plainly military and that is exactly what a world organization cannot be. Flags, uniforms, national anthems, patriotism sedulously cultivated in church and school,rhe brag, blare and bluster pf _o_u_sovereigntiesi belong to the phase of development we would supersede. The reasonable desire of all of us is that we should have the collective affairs of the world managed by suitably equipped groups of the most interested, intelligent and devoted people and that their activities should be subjected to a free, Open, watchful criticism, restrained from making spasmodic interruptions but powerful enough to modify or supersede without haste or delay whatever is weakening or unsatisfactory in the general direction.T o those who are friendly to this conception, Wells suggests the formation of groups brought together by common interests.  These groups need not be identical in object, but should subscribe to the following general principles:"(1)  The complete assertion, practical as .well as theoretical, of the provisional nature of existing governments  and of our acquies- encc in them;"(2) The resolve to minimize by all available means the conflicts pf these governments, their militant use of individual's and property and their interferences with the establishment of a world economic system;"(3) The determination to replace private, local or national ownership of at least credit, transport and staple production by a responsible world directorate serving the common ends of the race;"(4) The practical recognition of the necessity for world biological controls, for example,' of' population and disease;(5) The support of a minimum standard of individual freedom and welfare in the world; and(6) The supreme duty of-subordination of the personal life to the creation of a world directorate capable of these tasks and to the general advancement of human knowledge, capacity and power.The admission therewith thai our immortality is conditional' and lies in the race and not in our individual selves."The Open Conspiritor will necessarily be .compelled to overthrow many of .his. .cherished notions.- Hir religious beliefs will have to be restated in conformity with modern, social, psychological and scientific thought; his schools and universities will look to the future rather than emphasize.-the hallowed past and. sanctimonious present. It is obvious that the Open Conspiracy will not find favor among the ranks of the conservatives.. . . . .But, like all liberal movements, it will be spurned also by our impatient radicals, for the ' reason that this is to be a -bloodless revolutionits weapons moral', suasion 
and militant only in the use. pi levelrheadcd. discussion arid propaganda free from Old-fashioned' h'y- nocracy and -new-fashioned dogma. The Open Conspiracy does.- not ?eek the overthrow of any established state, but rather its absorb- tion by peaceful means into a superstate.Wells hopes' that'from modern organizations of sincere and intelligentarsons the Conspiracy will develop in numbers and power and in time acquire the control of world J affairs which it at first sought \merely to influence,
