LAST CHANCE 
TO BUY A THIS! LEh f (Jaran
Basket Ball Sat. 
Tech-W aynesburg
VOL. XVI. NO. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 1922
TECH LOSES 
MICH. GAMES
Team Rapidly Developing 
into ShapeSawyer Show
ing up WellDoseys Foul 
. Shooting Good
HOME GAME JANUARY 7
DEBATING TEAM TO MEET 
GROVE CITY, GENEVA, W. 4 J.
AND WEST VIRGINIA
After their two-third successful 
jaunt into the Industrial basket hall 
realm, Ooach IHal Iddings ledj his 
Carnegie Tech basket ball heavers 
into the state of Michigan to do bat
tle with the teams of Michigan Agri
culture College, and the  University 
of Michigan. In this trip success was 
not theirs in even so much as a 
.ingle event. One game was lost to 
the Michigan Aggies, 38-18, and two 
were lost to the University of Mich
igan, 36-15 and 48-22.
Judging from the scores, it would 
seem as if the Techites were com
pletely outclassed, but such is far 
from being the true case. True, games 
were lost by lop-sided scores, but 
when many things are taken into 
consideration the scores, do not seem 
quite so bad as they did at first 
glance. But, even so, no'matter how 
one may endeavor to justify the poor 
showing of Tech, with reasons, it 
must be admitted that by far the big
gest factor in the game was in the 
great team-play and floor work of 
the Michigan players. Their shoot
ing was accurate, and their guarding 
close enough to hold Tech field goals 
down to the minimum almost.
Perh>apB in trying to excuse Tech, 
mention might be made of the effect 
of a team playing six games in as 
many evenings. The first game, or 
even the first two or three might 
find the team in splendid physical 
condition, and ready to give their 
best game. But after that muscles 
become tired from continual running 
over the floor, and buffeting of one 
player against another, so that it will 
soon be practically impossible for a 
played to give his best. In mention
ing this, the writer does not know 
whether or not Michigan was under 
the same handicapif they were, all 
credit that this paper can give them 
is surely due.
Michigan Aggies 38Tech 18.
 -Tech started off wtli a rush, and 
had 4 ponts rolled up before the 
Michigan team got started, after 
which there was no heading of them. 
Heasley, Gilkey and Foster of Michi
gan, seemed to thfrow baskets at will, 
while the close guarding of the en
tire Michigan team, after Techs first 
basket at the very beginning of the 
game, held Tech goals to nothing. 
The half ended with Michigan leading 
27-8, six of Tech's points being made 
by the foul route. The lone field goal 
was made by Allen.
The second half Tech fared much 
better with Michigan playing her 
substitute material. In this half Tech 
managed to ring up ten points, includ
ing two field goals by Gibson, while 
Michigan only made 11 points, includ
ing four field goals.
Michigan University 36Tech 15
This was almost a repetition of 
the game with Michigan Aggies. Tech 
was completely outplayed throughout 
tlie first half when Michigan scored 
23 points, of which only 3 were by 
the foul route, which Tech corralled 
one field goal and one foul for a total 
of 3 points.
In the second half Tech showed up 
much better, scoring 12 points to 
Michigans 13. But even so, Michigan 
excelled much more than the points 
show, shooting 6 field gdkls for 12 
points out of their total of 13.
Too much Reason, and Rea for 
Michigan spelled Tech defeat.
Michigan University 48Tech 22
This game was a reversal of the 
other two, in that Tech did her good 
playing in the first half, scoring 1 
points to 21 for Michigan. Gibson rung 
4 field Goals, while Bell got 3, with 
'Tomi'miRd nn Pafrp Thrfi.)
The 19 members of the Debating 
Association after spending vacation 
are back at school ready to start 
work on Intercollegiate Debating. 
Coach Peterson announced that Grove 
City and Geneva have been sched
uled and a triangular debate with 
West Virginia and W. & J. had also 
been arranged.
Various questions have been sub
mitted some of which are:
"That the Federal Government 
should enact legislation providing for 
Gross Sales Tax.
"That the. principle of the open 
shop should be adopted by all indus
tries, including railroads.
That United States 'coastwise ves
sels, passing through the Panama 
iCanal should be exempt from toll. 
Other questions are: "Cancellation 
of war debts." "Abolition of the La
bor Board and the "Kansas Court. 
Mr. Peterson has divided the men 
into groups of six. The first group 
is to debate Friday afternoon, Jan
uary 6, at 4:30 p. m Coach Peter
son intends to turn out a good team 
and believes no time should be' lost 
He urged the men to encourage any 
other men on the campus interested 
in debating ' and ask them to come 
out
TO IMPROVE 
ATH. FIELD
New Gridiron Ready Next 
Fall Seating; Capacity to 
Be Increased by New Lo
cation
TO SPEND $10,000
DR. FARBER OF.SIXTH
PRES. CHURCH TO SPEAK
AT CHAPEL MONDAY
Mr. Davis wishes to announce that 
Dr. B. F. Farber.of tlio Sixth Pres
byterian Church will speak at the 
chapel services, Little Theater, on 
January 9. Let us start the new 
year off with the biggest and best 
chapel services yet. Dr. Farber is 
goodthe writer knows, having heard 
himand no doubt will have 
message to give to Tech students.
MUSICIANS TO 
HOLDS DANCE
Tech Novelty Orchestra to 
Furnish MusicHogdon 
of Glee Club Resigns
In order to help defray the ex 
pens# of the proposed Easter trip 
the Musical Clubs are staging a 
novelty dance in the Union on Fri 
day night, January 13. With the aid 
of the Pittsburgh Clan, an Easterii' 
trip, including Johnstown, Altoona, 
Harrisburg, York, Philadelphia and 
New York is being planned.
A trip "of this kind will necessarily 
mean an outlay of quite a sum of 
money andt hence the benefit dance. 
To_ those who attend a good time is 
assured as there will ibe vocal and 
instrumental novelties to amuse the 
dancers between dances1. The Tech. 
Novelty Orchestra will play and Man
ager Jordy wishes to extend a cor
dial invitation to all Tech students 
and their friends.
On account of pressing business 
engagements Director Hogdon of the 
Glee Club, has resigned and Alfred 
Johnson of the music department 
has been appointed' to take his place. 
It is hoped that Al will receive 
the loyal support of the members of 
the club and' that the program which 
has been attefnpted will be put 
across in good shape.
The clubs are now on their final 
lap of rehearsals and the concert at 
Tarontum, Pa., on the 19th ^\V.ill open 
the season.
The football field will be re-surfaped before the next football sea
son opens. Surveys have already 
been made and the work will start 
immediately.
Provides More Seating Space.
The'plan is to lay out a neAv grid
iron which will be at an angle of 
about thirty degrees to the present 
field. The east goal to be about 
where the gas well is located. This 
scheme will provide room for addi
tional space for spectators. New 
stands will probably be built which 
will increase the seating capacity.
To Be Well Drained.
The gridiron proper is to' be im
proved by the best methods possi
ble. The main problem is that of 
drainage. It will be taken care of by 
a system of French drains, an eight 
inch surface of cinders, covered by 
a good turf. The surface will slope 
to either side so that no water will 
remain on the playing field.
School to Help Pay.
This proposition will he hailed by 
everyone who has witnessed the slopi py field! during past seasons. It is 
through co-operation of the school 
authorities with the Athletic Asso
ciation, that the finances for the 
work are insured.
STUDENT FUND 
DRIVE AT TECH
To RaiseMbneyFor the 
Benefit of Foreign Students'
MOVIES SHOWN AT
SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
RESEARCH 
IN MUSIC
ARCHITECTS WON HONORS 
ON PROBLEMS AT JUDG
MENT IN NEW YORK
Dr. Bingham Finishes Re
search Work for Mr. Edi
sonA Study of Moods by 
Music
NEW TESTIMONY
The Student Friendship Fund, an 
organization to better the conditions 
of students in Europe, has been or
ganized at Tech under the direction 
of -the Teclmon Club which directs 
such work on the campus.
A campaign for funds will be held 
from January 11 to January 1-1, and 
all students will be asked to con
tribute something.. The drive will be 
dosed by a dance in the Union, Sat
urday night, January 14, at which 
it is expected all -Tech students will 
be present, as the! money will go to 
help the needy students in Europe.
The committee in charge consists 
of: Miss Helen Reed, chairman; 
Dean Scales, Miss Josephine Stewart, 
M. M. C., L. R. Allison, Science, "Al 
Irwin, Industries,- Herbert Dowden, 
Arts, H. C. I-Iooyer and RuSsel .Bid
dle.
ACTIVITIES BOARD
ORDERS BANNER
Remember the animated pictures 
by Tad at the last movie you at
tended? Well, then you have an 
Idea of the movies shown at the 
Science Assembily on Wednesday precedihg the Christmas recess. But in
stead of Tads favorite feline the 
Scientists saw the automobile engine 
in all its phases of operation.
Eactly what happens when the 
engine is running was clearly shown 
,by phantom views. Even the flow 
of electricity through the electric 
circuit of a typical machine as well 
as the' differential gearing were 
shown by| means of the animated1 pic
tures. Probably every one thought 
they could go home for the vacation 
and tell the old man how his buss 
really operated and- not a few may 
have gone as far as to check up for 
the truth of the ipdctures on the old 
Lizzie.
Y. M. C. A. ARRANGES
CHRISTMAS DINNER
The Carnegie Tech Y. M. C. A. has 
again proved its usefulness to the 
students. Many were the students 
who were stranded in Pittsburgh dur
ing the Christmas vacation, but when 
the Y. M. C. A. started working for 
their good-time, home was not missed 
so much as it would have been had 
the Y not been on the job.
Realizing that the students would 
miss their weekly swims in the Schenley High tank, Mr. Dayis, our secre
tary, got into a confab' with the 
East Liberty Branch, and as a result 
was able to present to the students 
a Christmas present of a nine day 
membership with fyull privileges at 
that Y. M. C. A. There were more 
than flfty-flve such cards issued, and 
needless to say, used to advantage.
But not satisfied with this service, 
Mr. Davis again started to realizing 
did you ever try realizing? Such 
tactics often means a few tearB and 
hard times eliminated. Try it some
timesand as a result came to the 
conclusion that many of these self
same stranded students1 would miss 
a Christmas.dinner de la home. This 
time he confabbed with the Com
munity House in Oakland, and ar
ranged a most sumptuous Christmas 
dinner, Christmas tree, neverything. 
Twenty-seven Techites enjoyed this, 
and to say enjoy would be putting it 
mildly, for a great, grand, and 
glorious time was surely-had by all. 
A good "feed was presented which 
was consumed joyfully. A Christ
mas prosent was found for every
body on the Christmas tree 
Beautiful girls sewed. Tech men 
furnished their own entertain 
ment with songs, talks and so forth. 
The meal was not marred much 
by after-dinner speakersthose that 
were there were good . . . For this 
dinner, guess we will say Thanks to 
both the Carnegie Tech Y, and to 
the Oakland Community House.
The Student Activities Board held 
its. last meethig of the calendar year 
on December 14, disposing of a great 
deal of old business regarding the 
budget and making appropriations to 
various student organizations such 
as the M. M. D. Guild, the Y. W. C. 
A., and the students of the Night 
School who are planning a fourschool dance.
The appropriation to the Y. W. C. 
A. branch at Tech carried with it 
a recommendation A that the name of 
the organization bo changod so as to 
signify that it embodies the girls* of 
both Margaret Morrison and Dosign 
Schoolsi and that an endoavor bo 
made to stir up Interest among tho 
girls of Design iStehool so that the 
entire co-ed group will be reprosonted In the Tech branch of the Y. W. 
C. A.
Reports were received from the 
Carnogie- Technical Journal, the Band, 
the Tartan and the Musical Clubs. A 
motion was also passed asking for 
reports from the managers of tho 
Thistle, Board of Miscellaneous' Pub
lications and Girls* Glee Club,
The committeo on tho C. I,. T. 
banner reported that a Camoglo ban
ner had b'oen orderod and would bo 
completed by tho first of the yoar.
Plummer or Musician? He 
Asked Physchology Dept.
TECH AVIATORS REQUESTED 
TO AFFILIATE WITH AERO
CLUB OF PITTSBURGH
The alumni office has just been no
tified that the War Department pro
poses furnishing the Aero Club of 
Pittsburgh with fourteen planes and 
a flying field, as well as a squadron 
of enlisted men to take care of the 
up-keep of the machines, provided 
the Pittsburgh organization secures 
an enrollment of 250 members. The 
dues are one dollar per year and the 
membership As not restricted to any 
class, the only requirement being that 
the-applicant be interested in future 
welfare of aeronautics.
Such an aviation field will be a 
valuable asset to Pittsburgh as a 
trade center. I believe,it is the duty 
of every Tech man interested in avia
tion to back this movement for memOFF-HOUR RULES
FOR FRESHMAN
. Recently a Plebe who was a stu- Say 0? Timer, don't yu keep* no 
dent of plumbing at Industries, dis-jcussies in yer office, or does everycovered1 the Music Department. Fre- body spit on the floor like we does 
quent visits, were made to the Arts'in Pattern Shop?Well, wadyasay? 
building by this future artisan. He Dyu think Id make good as a muwas overcome by a desire to become sicker? ;
a great musician. He applied foi'j IJ.Before I answer, let me ask
transfer, _and was referred to the you some questions.
Psychology Department where the; (Picks up paper and reads.) , , .
following conversation took place: Who killed Jolin Barleycorn? Car- ,ershiI- The suJ ho oonf of r\nnn tr\ A W Ti rioo-or f fill(Enter Freshman, quid of Mail \ rie Nation, Volstead or Pussyfoot 
Pouch undergoing treatment in left j Johnson?
jaw.) ^ F.I didnt know he was dead.
(Professor comes to life.) P.-HumOn what day of the.
Prof.Ah, young man, I see at a week does Easter Sunday fall?Monglance that you are deeply troubled, i day, Thursday or Sunday?
Some perplexing problem has so en- F.Monday.
meshed you in its intricacies that) (Professor lays .down list of quesyou have brought it to me for psycho-j tions, removes Kryptocs" and taps I
!?  ,  ,  , ,, !lh *Kai,,st h3 l8[t thumbnall ) ! Final Exams are a thin or theFresh. Say buddy, I dont quite. P.-Youns man, wo need go no! t  th0 Wharlon School of the
get yu. but I got a hunch yu got me further; you will never make a mu- Unlverslty ot Pennsylvania. Dean
straight. What I wants is a little siclan. I noticed from the first that j0hn80n helleves that tho time can
info as to what yu thinks of me your fingernails are not the long,|be better Bpent In co-ordinated class
shiftin my stampin grounds to De-. slender pointed type and that your Work rather than in preparing for
sign School. I figure I could knock-; carriage lacks the gazelle-like stride' exams. Two weeks of each semester
em cold if I took up pie-anna play-: and picturesque deportment of the! will be saved in which more profitain. j Design student. (Leans back, elbows J }>le knowledge can be gained by the
P.Ah, I perceive you are a stu-j on arms of chair, finger-tips lightly; students.
be sent at once to A. N. Krieger, 1130 
DeVictor place, Pittsburgh, or IT. B. 
Cheswick. care National Supply Com
pany, Pittsburgh, so that early action 
by the War Department may be se
cured.
WHARTON SCHOOL
ABOLISHES EXAMS
dent of the '.College of industries 
F.Yeh, a'-s me; Im takin Plumbin.
(Looks ar >nd room, under tables 
and chairs.) 1
hi
pressed together.) Now, after 
careful, t hough rapid, diagnosis of : ProfI want to see you get 80 per
your qualifications I have come to cent or."" tion, young man.
the irrefutable conclusion t\>' :** y I, Prof., lets
(Continued on Page
Becoming a Freshman Is just like 
getting married. The first forty 
weeks are the hardest.
Upon alighting from the subway 
(only Law School Persons may come 
to college in a taxicab) check your 
grip, umbrella and rubbers at the 
soda fountain and climb into your new 
wardrobe.
Exercise careful selection in the 
matter of a cap. You must have one 
of these; the well-dressed Freshman 
will wear a cap this year. Baldheaded Freshmen may wear earmuffs 
by special permission.
The' 25 haberdashers are present
ing an unusually attractive line of 
socks this year. There are blacks 
and greens and then" again there are 
greens and blacks. Silk hosiery may 
be worn only in chapel. Freshmen 
possessing especially dainty calves 
will be allowed to roll their socks on 
warm afternoons. In case a Sophom,ore requests you to don your new 
hosiery at once, Mayor Hylans 
Health Board has ordered all such 
changes be made in a telephone 
booth.
Do not be embarrassed if a little 
h'ayseed fails out when your cuffs 
are turned down. Some of our most 
promising students have come' up 
from the sticks.
If any of your clothing is torn by 
rude Sophomore send the bill to the 
'25 Treasurer.
When your wardrobe is complete, 
put your cap on at a rakish angle and 
saunter around the campus at your 
leisure. Do not run if a strange man 
starts to chase you, as he is probably 
only a fraternity ivory scout who 
wants to drag you out to lunch.
After talcing the psychological tost 
go to your room and lie down for 
three hours. If you feel the need of 
strong drink, remember tho poor 
wretches who took the Edison mem
ory tests and control yourself.
After ybu have done everything 
else, register. 'i'ake two or three 
magazines with you in case the 
clerks are ail out to lunch. Dont bo 
worried if there is^a large crowd at 
the window; your f'reen card entitles 
you to a place atj the head of the 
line. If you fail to register in time, 
you still have the [privilege (so Col
lege Announcement! calls it) of regis
tering later on for'the small sum of 
six simoleons.
(Continued on Page Four) 
v i
Several years ago Thomas A. Edi
son presented to tho world an inven
tion which has been far-reaching in 
its influence- This invention is tho 
New Edison Re-Creation, upon which 
he bas worked for several years and 
spent approximately three million dol
lars. His aim was not to reproduce 
musio as the old fashioned talking 
machine' did; but to re-oroate It, so 
that no appreciable difference could 
be detected between the living musio 
and the re-created music. Through 
the public tests and concerts, which 
have been conducted throughout this 
country, we are all familiar with 
the great success which Edison has 
achieved along this line. But he was 
not satisfied with merely the re 
created , musio, ho then wished t< 
know the effects of various kinds of 
music upon the people. His wish 
was to roduce to a scientific . basis 
the vague power of musio which 
people have felt' through all tho 
ages. We need only to turn through 
the pages of literature and history 
to find instances of tho power of 
music. Tho ancionts used martial 
music to arouse tho fighting instinct 
of their warriors, tho primitive peo
ple learned that tho rhythm' of mu
sic lightened and aided tholr work, 
and what mother is there who has 
not soothed and calmed a ifrotful cry
ing cfliild with a lullaby? Our own 
personal .oxperlonoos lmvo given us 
u vaguo knowledge of tho powor of 
music, but Edisons dream was to 
have tho various affocts carefully oxporimentod and tabulatod. To accom
plish this he has carried on an oxtensive research 'Into the jnbntal ef
forts of music.
Dr. Bingham Conducts Many Tofltn.
At tho head of tills rosoarch ho 
placed Dr. W. V. Bingham, director of 
Personal Rosoarch Department of 
Applied' Psychology of this liuKtltu* 
tlon, who has conducted varied and 
innumorablo experiments. Tho offoat 
of music on tho various nerve and 
muscles of tho listonor were care
fully comparod,, but tho most striking 
offoct was In the mood changes of 
tho llstenor.
Tho first oxporlmontal work began 
by taking 081) selection! recorded on 
the Edison machlno and trying thorn, 
out on various listeners'. All tho 
changes of mood and fooling wore 
tabulatod- on charts which recorded 
tho conditions of time and weather, 
and tho oxporlonco, ago, training, 
tomporamont, disposition and intefost 
of tho listonor. Of course tho results 
wore varlod and striking. Two list
eners would react qulto dlfforontly to 
tho same selection but of tho 589 sc 
lections, lttfi soeinod to produce tho 
same marked offocts upon practically 
all persons. Those 135 solootlons 
have been arranged not alphabetical
ly, not! aacordlng to the subjects, but 
according to tho moods which they 
produce and tho lists aro published 
in a little book which has for its 
title Mood Music.
20,000 Mood Changes Tabulatod.
Dr. Bingham has always beon in(Continued on Page Four)
That Carnogie Ieoh took highest 
honors in tho last judgment at 
Beaux Arts, Now York, is proven by 
the report Prof. H. Stern fold brought 
back.
Ho said that 450 drawing wore 
submitted for the dosign of "A Golf 
Club done by Juniors In various 
schools of the country. Out of all 
thoso tho jury picked two drawings, 
awarding them first mention placed. 
One went to W. Z. Bane of Tech, 
whose drawing was finally awarded 
the only first mention placed publi
cation. Out of 12, first mentions, 
Tech received three, leading any 
other school represented. These were 
awarded to Miss Barton, A. Taormina 
and W. Harris.
Tho Sophomores also went ahead 
of the other schools In a design for 
An Entrance to a Library. Staples 
of Tech took tho only first mention 
placed publication, while Tross, also 
of Tocli, received a first mention 
placed. A. S. Vincent and Lynch.
At present) tho Seniors are work
ing on a "Bachelors Apartment," the 
Juniors on A Casino and the Soph
omores on A Commemorative Monu
ment.
1922 GRID 
SCHEDULE
Yale, Notre Dame, State and 
W. & J. Big' Attractions 
Season Opens Sept. 30th at 
New Haven, Conn.
OTHERS ASK GAME
C. M. E. S. DELECATE IN N. Y.
Technical Schools Represent
edDiscuss Giving of 
School Credits '*
Tho Carnogie Mechanical Englnoer 
lug Socloty, a studont branch of tho 
Amorlcan Society of Mochanlcal Engi
neers, was roprosontod In Now York 
at tho annual mooting of tho various 
student branches by J. E. Konuoy, 
president of tho local organization, 
At tho mooting woro dologatos from 
practically ovory established tochnical^ 
uehool oast of tho Mississippi und 
many ovon further wost.
Tho winnoru of tho studont branch 
prlzo- contests road tholr papers be
fore tho assomblod dologatos after 
which tho main business of tho meet
ing was taken up. One of the most 
Important decisions of tho delegates 
came aftor .a prolonged discussion as 
to whothor tho convention should go 
on record as favoring the giving of 
credits by the school for participating 
In the student branch mootings. The 
delegates voted almost unanimously 
that for the best Interests ot the so
ciety scholastic credit should not bo 
given for this activity.
Anothor valuable discussion dealt 
with tho promotion of closer relations 
between tho senior organization and 
tho studont branches. Tho vlows of 
tho various dologatos. were recorded 
by tho A. H, M. 10. secretary and those 
will be explained and considered by 
thoiA. S. 'M. 111. committee.on student 
(Contlntiod on lago Four.)
HONORARY FRAT.
HOLDS INITIATION
NEWMAN CLUB WILL
HOLD BASKET BALL DANCE
AT K. OF C. HALL JAN. 10
The Newman Club will renew its so
cial activities with a basket ball dance 
Tuesday, January 10, at K. of C. hall. 
Fifth and Bellefleld avenues. The 
committee, composed of members of 
the basket ball team, has made exten
sive preparations and the program to 
be offered is an assurance that those 
attending will be treated to the moat 
enjoyable affair ever given by tills 
popular club.
Artistic decorations, intermingled 
with the colors and pennants of the 
different schools will be used about 
the ball room. A few new and novel 
features, entirely original, will add to 
the evenings entertainment. Maggios 
popular orchestra will offer a program 
of the very latest dance hits in its 
inimitable manner.
The affairs of this club have always 
been most successful and have proved 
a source of enjoyment to all. It has 
been the desire of the committee in 
charge to eclipse anything yet offered 
and those who are familiar with the 
program are convinced that this de
sire will be realized.
Patronesses Include: Messrs. and 
Mesdames A, S. McSwIgan, F. J. Lanalmn, H. ,T. Keally, II. S.. Carr, D. D, 
Kirby.
Tho Gamma Mu Epsilon, honorary 
mining fraternity, hold an Inltlatloi 
previous to tho holiday vacation and 
Initiated' the following now members: 
Thomas W. Plant, John L. Herman 
Lewis D. Richards, Francis Q. Krodol, 
David. C. Portorfiold, Samuel J. Dun 
can, Lewis F. Sattolo and LoRoy L. 
Byerly.
Mr. Robort Andorson and Mr. G. 
Jakowsky, who are connectod with 
the United States Bureau of Mines 
were guests who 'attended the ban
quet at tho P. A. A- Captain Edward
1922 GRID SCHEDULE
Sept. 30... .Yale.. .New I-Iaveu, Conn.
Oct. 7.........Genova ................... Here
Oct. 7.........W. &. J., Washington,. Pa.
Oct. 21.......Thiol .......................... Here
Oct. 28.......Grove City .................Hero
Nov. -1........Allegheny ................. Here
Nov. 11.......Penn State.S. College, Pa.
Nov. IS... . .St. Bonaventuro____Here
Nov. 25.......Notro Dame ............. Here
Without a doubt the football sched
ule of Carnegie Tech for li)22 is the 
hardest over attempted. It will give 
the football team tho chance of all 
chances to make a name, and to place 
itself in elite company for all times. 
No expense was spared, as well as 
painstaking effort, to mako this sched
ule one In which,all factions would be 
satisfied. The alumni demanded a
gamo with ono of tho big three. The
studont body demanded games which 
would, If won, place Toch at the top 
of tho football world. Tho public de
manded that Tech meet schools who 
had toams the equal of, If not better 
than Toch.
All of these domands luivo boon sat
isfiedeven to tho most exacting. 
Tho Yalo gamo placos us on tho 
schodulo of tho so*callod "ellto" of 
oastorn football. Tho four gamoB 
with Yalo, Washington and Jofforson, 
Penn State and Notro Damo surely 
gives Toch four of tho strongost teams 
In tho country as opponents. Tho 
Notro Damo gamo In this city will 
glvo tho Pittsburgh general public a 
chance to VOO ono of tho countrys 
foremost teams In action, and a roal 
chance to judge on tho merits of CarLO.XO Toch.
Tho record of Notro Damo last yoar 
In holding Iowa, Conference cham
pions, to a 10-!lflooro stamps them as 
of championship whlln .Mini*, dp* ,
coslve victory oVor tho Army puts 
them higher still In tho football world. 
Tho records of Ponn State and W. k 
.1. aro too well known to comment. 
Yalo defeated Princeton after Prince
ton had defeated Harvard, and was In. 
turn trounced by Harvard, who hold 
Poim State to a 21-21 tie. Use your 
own Judgment!
In making this schodulo Graduate 
Manager Haurou was confronted with 
s. great task bocauso of tho grout 
number of teams who-wished to placo 
Carnogie Toch on tholr schedule. Ho 
had to turn down offers from the fol
lowing schools: Chicago, Illinois,
Dartmouth, Harvard, Syracuse, Col
gate, Michigan Aggies, Kutgoru, Con 
tro and Bethany.
llutgers wished Carnegie Toch as 
an attraction at tho Polo Grounds, 
Now York. Centro wished Tech as a 
Thanksgiving attraction In Danville. 
Bolhany offered Toch tho largest 
guarantee over offered by a Class B 
team for a Thanksgiving day gamo In 
Whoollng.
SANTA VISITS THE
ARCHITECTURAL DEPT.
On Thursday uftprnoon as tho 4:!50 
boll rang closing tho schedule for tho 
school day, tho Architects of the Ar
chitectural Department, like bold plratos of old, took mastory of tho 
drafting room. Umlor the leadership 
of tho Junior class tho drafting room
. was quickly transformed. A largo
Stoidlo of tho Co-operative Division Christmas tree, ornamonted and decoof Mining Engineering, gave a very I ratQ(1 as oniy architects could lmagino
Interesting talk on "Mineral Re- and carry out was the central feature,
sources of the World. Mi*. Anderson 
then enlightened the audience on 
some of tho mysteries of Aluminum 
on which he has spent considerable 
time in research work for tho gov 
erriment.
Track Coacli H. C. Embree of Mon
mouth established a record in cross
country running recently. He ran 
a distance of about eighteen miles in 
the record time of two hours and fif
teen minutes milling t(he average 
time per mile only about seven min
utes.
The general deduction Is that you 
can tell a frosh as far as you see him 
but after you get up to him you cant 
toll him nothin.
Indignant PatronHere, waiter 
I bave just found a collar button in 
this pot pie.
Placid WalterYes, sir. Did you 
see anything of an umbrella, boss? 
Ope was lo^t here last night,
while Christmas greetings done in va
rious colors served as a clever back 
ground. When all was in readiness 
Santa Claus was ushered In with a 
pack on his back, and Ills assistants 
in close -pursuit bore the Christmas 
sweets.
First Santa presented A box of cigarets given by the faculty and which 
he repeated twice again later in the 
program. Then Santa gave all the 
boys their presents, for he found out 
they were all real good boys. 1-Ie 
also had with him presents for the 
faculty. The assistants went to work 
and passed out the candy, giving each 
fellow a bag. This concluded the af
fair at which all had a good time. The 
event was unanimously voted to be 
an annual affair.
Amorous OneDo you over peek 
through the keyhole when I am sit
ting in there with your sister?
Small Brother (with a burst of, can
dor)-Sometimes when Mother aint 
there. /
DATELE88 WOMEN'8 CLUB
AT CINCINNATI
The club for dateless women at 
Cincinnati University sooms l.o be the 
newest feminine foible. Tho aim of 
the organization Is to provide amuse
ment on lonely Saturday nights, to 
drive away ennui, homesickness and 
kindred forms of mental discomfort. 
The rules for admission are rigid 
and once a member breaks a rule 
she Is automatically dropped. A can
didate must present as her creden
tials, four dates or under and when 
she has had more than tin dates Is 
passed on, to the vetera 1A organiza
tion or iters Club.
Profs. Get Startling
Results In Exam Research
Prof, Bon D. Wood, assistant to 1)2 per cent. Another pa/per gradod 
tho Dean of Columbia University, in by 142 teachers showed a discrepancy 
a report on examination research, from 04 to 98 per cent, 
declared tho grades given student' IIo further declares that tho type 
on final examinations frequently de- of examinations given in an Amerpend more on tho temper, digestion lean school Is archaic and unfair,
; and comfort of the instructor, than and should be abolished. He recom 
the contents of the papers. j mends in its place a system of
He cited tho case of a paper measuring the mental capacity of a 
graded as a test by 114 teachers. It student; that is. based on modern 
received marks ranging from 28 to tests, using technical devices.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 1922
gfhg (Harfatt
Published every weok by undergraduates ot the Carnegie Instituto of 
Technology under tho supervision of tho Studont Activities Board.
Entered In tho Postonico of Pittsburgh us secoixl-cluss mutter.
BMDKEICK L. KNOWLES............................................................ Kdltor-ln-Chlof
Telephone, Huzel 0398
WILLIAM R. MILLS ................................................................Business Manager
TelephoneSclionloy 9211
VIC. H. STROMQUIST ............................................................. Managing. Editor
TelephonesSchonloy 9180 or Hllund 8G8
HELEN V. LEWIS............................................................................Assoclute IfldltbrTelephoneSchonloy 9079
h. J. WHITEHE1AD ...................................................................... Associate 33(11 torTolophono-Schonloy 9070
KIJWAHI) A. MIAND...........................  ; "   ......................Ncwl* Bl,ltorTolophonoSchenley 9070
IT If SIMPSON................................................................................. Athlotlc Editor
'TolophonoSchonloy 0070 
  INN1NO5 ................................................................ Photoffraphor
S.' "'IMCKMAN.............................................................................. ** K""r
Tu HNNIOMANN ............................;          Adv^tliln* ManagerTelephoneSchonloy 9211 
B L III ELLY ...................................................................... Circulation Managor
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
(iliKlvn Hokuo, M. Sclimmichor, II. P. DIotor, A. Lubin, Vincimi Hoy, 
)> ( MlicIConzIo, II. II. Lofhowlt/., II. II. WIIHOII, K. U McKuo, W. J. 
i Li, , , V t Iholp, 0. J- Mmmt, It. p. Huy, J. A. Dougherty, M. B. 
Downi^wf d Sullivun, II. w. Browull, IS. W. Duggan, V. C. Smith, H. J. 
McCormick, L. Ilyorly. L. M. Elliott
J. M. Cooper
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. SoworsW. B. Cunningham
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy o^ this papor; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up
Tho Tartan wolcomdB all communications of student Interest. If signed, 
signaturo will bo withhold if desired. All nows Items must bo in tho student 
post olllco before 4:80 Friday.
Tartan OiUcoRoom fi-A, IndustrloB Building. OIUco hoursTuesday, 
li:80 to 12: :i0; Wednesday, 12 to 1_____________;________ i i
WHY WE HAVE EXAMS
Just us wo are ttbout to start intensive truiiiing ior the coming 
semester examinations we find tha/t the Wharton School oJ. the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania has abolished final examinations. . Dean 
Johnson believes that the time given for exams could be much better 
spent. '
Then Professor Ben D. Woods of Columbia University comes out 
with the statement that grades given students on final examinations 
frequently depend more on the temper, digestion and comfort of the 
instructor than on the contents oJ: the papers. He tells the ease 
of an examination paper graded by 114 teachers and received marks 
ranging from. 28 to 92 per cent.
Professor Woods says that grades given on examination, papers 
are not indicative of the students knowledge and Dean Johnson says 
class-room work is more beneficial to the student than examinationsand the majority of schools, including Carnegie Tech, still persist in 
final examinations.
Why it is done, we do not know. We have been through many 
examinations and as yet we have not been convinced that examina
tions will give a true indication of our knowledge and wo believe we 
could spend our time in a more profitable way.
Then, why do we have exams'/
MELLON HALL
Mr. A. W. Mellons gift of Mellon Iiall to Carnegie Tech comes 
as a very pleasant surprise. Usually, we are able to anticipate ap
propriations from the Carnegie Corporation, but gifts other than 
these have not found their way to Carnegie Tech before.
We believe in Carnegie Tech very firmly and when some one 
outside of the school expresses their belief in our school as Mr. Mellon 
lias done, wo feel, reassured.
We wish to thank Mr. Mellon sincerely for his gift, not only as 
a valuable addition to our campus, but also as an expression of his 
belief in theyfuturc of our Alma Mater.
PITT-TEH RELATlONQ
Before tho Christmas recess the inter-fraternity council at Pitt 
passed a resolution commending the action of ilio Pitt and Tech 
fraternities toward a better relation betwocn the two schools. The 
Toch council had already passed a similar resolution.
There is a growing feeling in both schools to givo tho movement 
the support of both student bodies. The idea was started llirough 
the fraternity, as in that way it was thought a largo number of repre
sentative students could be approached in a very short time. Shortly 
afterwards tho two in ter-fraternity "councils endorsed trio plan and it 
will now 1)0 taken to Ilio student councils of both'schools. Upon 
the recommendation of the student councils a definito resolution will 
be presented to both student bodies at genomi assembly.
Tho movement is a very worthy one and tho sooner the two 
schools tfot together and .oo-oporato, the bettor the two schools will 
be. Wo boi io vo that ovovy Carnegie Toch man will givo this Move
ment his support and wo hopo there will be no delay.
President Student Council......-...................
President Science Senate........................-.....
President Science Senior Class....................
President Arts Assembly......................................
President Arts Senior Class.................................
President Industries Assembl}r..........................
President Senior Class........................................
President M. M. C. C. Senate.............................
President M. M. C. C. Senior Class..'..................
President Athletic Council.................................
President Athletic Association................L.J........
Manager Musical Clubs........................................
Editor in Chief Thistle.'.....)...................................
Business Managpr Thistle.................................
Secretary Y. M. C. A...........................................
President Rifle Club.............................................
Manager Rifle Team.............................................
President Students Activities Board....
Manager Basket Ball............................................
Manager Baseball.................................................
Manager Band....................................................
Plebe Discussions.................................................
....................E. B. Nation
......................C. B. Blosoh
.....................lt. B. Nation
.........................C. B. Hied
...................:W. M. Burko
..................JET. G. Goddcn
........................A. C. Irvin
.......................Helen Reed
..................Laura Buglier
..................C. C. Ovcrend
..................Gordon First
......................G. L. Jordy
................C. E. Landefeld
.......................J. D. Evans
..........Mr. R. Y. Davis
................C. A. Walter
..........G. K. OConnor
...................J. G. Byler
.................... II. Cavcw
.........R. B. Nation
.......F. L. Knowles
..............A. C. May
MAKING GREAT LENSESA
NEW AMERICAN INDUSTRY
Recant perfection of electrically 
heated furnaces has mado it possible 
for the United States to manufacture 
optical glnaH of a quality oqual. If not 
superior to, that which this country 
formerly dopomlod upon Germany to 
supply.
Now wo look no longer to tho vaunt
ed city of .Tona for'this material. A 
now American Industry with electric
itys aid sees to It tluvt wo dont. 
Forty-inch telescopic louses aro being 
turned out by  New York state Ions 
company.; Cooling tho molten glass 
at just the proper rate Is tho solontUlc 
secret of good optical glass manufac
ture.
Formerly most of tho glass anneal
ing furnaces of this country were 
fuel fired. Thon camo electricity.
Tho even heat of the electric fur
nace throughout its interior due to 
electricitys peculiar quality of uni
form radiation and tho furnaces per
fect insulation, its exact control, and 
its freedom from all gases that might 
contaminate the furnace charge are 
proving to be factors enabling Amer
ica to meet Germany on an even com
petitive basis.
RESEARCH BELOW ZERO
The science of coldof extremely 
low temperatures  may be regarded 
by many persons as still remote from 
industry. Cryogonics, as this science 
Is called, nevertheless, has become a 
practical subject, particularly the 
characteristics of gas mixtures in re
lation to liquefaction and separation 
of gases for industrial application pur
poses. Liquid oxygon has a practical 
application as an oxplosivo. If an ab
sorbent pad Is saturated with a liquid 
hydrocarbon, It can, In prosonco of li
quid oxygon, be exploded with great 
violence. Tho combination Is used at 
tho present time in mines In Franco 
and Germany. Tho only commercial 
use of liquid air is as a source of li
quid and gaseous oxygon. Other uses 
may bo developed. Knowledge of cry
ogenics aids in separation of pure 
helium. Substituting helium for hy
drogen removes many dangers from 
airships and balloons.
COMMENTS
XCARERGA STU FHHY,YFT,P
John did not come straight homo. 
I-lence he did not come homo straight. 
The towering form of his wife loomed 
above him as his stumbling, shoeless 
feet sought the steps.
Drunk'again," she said caustically. 
"Hooray, mdear, lie replied cheer
fully. "So*m I.Sun Dial
Many student spend a great deal 
of time at their studies, but owing to 
the fact that they allow their minds 
to wander aimlessly about while they 
aro working, they are unable to ac
complish all that they wish to. It Is 
only tho very few who have such 
spIendkPy trained minds that they 
can concentrate In ono specific sub
ject to I lie practical exclusion of all 
else. The groat majority of students 
are sure to have their attention dis
tracted by various Interesting but 
Inconsequential little thoughts that 
insist on coming into tholr heads, 
and on Hitting bet ween tho lines of 
tho hook they aro studying, Und in 
fact that soom to crop up at all times 
and most surely bear scant respect 
for the wishes of tho woufld-bo stu
dent.
It is a question whether many of 
our modern memory courses would 
help a student so situated. They re
quire concentration as well as our 
every day tasks, and however good 
may bo tho system that they follow, 
there is still room, for the mind to 
wander. About tho best remedy is 
real genuine interest in the subject; 
which oue is studying. Interest will 
tend to drive away the disconcerting 
thoughts that try to crowd Into the 
brain. It will develop concentration, 
for it Is a driving, compelling force 
that rivets the attontlon firmly on the 
matter in hand', in such a way that 
complete mastery of tho subject will 
be tho result. AJlthough. much may 
bo said in favor of subjects that are 
supposed to develop certain mental 
faculties, yet It Is doubtful if they 
fulfill their purpose when the factor 
of interest Is lacking. Hoalthy, vital 
Interest in a subject will do more to 
develop keen mental faculties than 
any amount of woary plodding through 
dull, classical Olterature, or mater
ialistic mathematical formula.
The student should endjeavfor to 
find out what subjects interest him, 
then should map out his course ac
cordingly. The importance of choos
ing a course that harmonizes with 
tho naturai bent of ones mind can
not bo over-estimated. We should 
think matters over and study our 
own desires carefully before we def
initely decide just what line of work 
wo wish to take up; then we may go 
ahead and as the subjects we have 
elected to study become clearer for 
us, we will find that our interest 
grows with our increasing knowledge, 
and that our efficiency Increases with 
our added powers *-of concentration. 
McGifll Dally.
THE GLAD-HANDERS
This Is about time for tho midsea801,1 drive of "glad handers, the stu
dents who have failed to keep tlioir 
work up to tho propor standard, 
whether bocauso they wore Indulg
ing In talk-iliillcs'esaions, or "dating 
or jiist plain Hazy. About , this time 
those solf-confesHOd failures will bo 
slipping up to tho Instructor and ask
ing foolish questions and trying the 
flatter the podagogna Into "letting 
them through easy.''
Ono popular professor made his 
Declaration of Independence last 
spring when ho informed tho femi
nine memibors of his class that tlioy 
had bottor study for next blue book 
along with tho more malos, "as no 
weeping and walling Into dainty 
handkerchiefs" would help them if 
they didnt know enough about tho 
iioyrso to pass tho forthcoming blue 
hook.
If your solf-rospoct doos not rebel 
at (he thought of this "glad-handlng 
your common senao should warn you. 
Tho Instructor has boon through col
lege, too...perhaps even has "pulled
the jiame thing you consider so origi
nal. And, after all. (lie amount Of 
BXYUO spent In "glad-handing Is usunioro than that necessary to re
ally pass tho course on your merits.
Dont "gladJhand," it Isnt' Worth 
itNebraskan Daily.
ROAMINS .
Ah now* I take my pen In hand, Ive 
/got to write to heat the hand. I think 
Ill v/rlte on New Years day, on which 
you get the cards which say, "The 
best of whihes for the year. And 
"Happy days is all you hear. Some 
resolutions are in style, and some 
folks think that they're worth while. 
Among the folks who do not fool there 
must bo many from our school. And 
wouldn't life he full of bliss,,If Geqkler made up ono llko this? "These 
Plebes are young and full of fun; Ill 
never flunk another one. If Heyl 
would tell the boys at Tech, "dome 
In to me, Ill cash your check. Our 
publications would feel gay If Doan 
Tarbell would only say, "I now re
solve to never check the papers pub
lished here at Toch."
If over at the Sklho Inn .they'd 
swear to take tho dishes In and swear 
to wash them once a day, the dorm 
boys would rise lip and say,' "New 
Years are blessings In disguise, the 
guy that made.lt up was wise.
I wish tho Maggies were disposed 
to wear their big goloshes closed. 
And if theyd make a resolution, it 
sure would cause a revolution. If over 
In the Drama School the girls would 
promise not to fool, with green young 
Plebes who havent had experience in 
being had. They Hay of youngsters 
that the first,-' of love affairs afreets 
them worst. I wish the trustees would 
resolve, that not from blame they 
would absolve, the man who doesnt 
finish al), of our new gym before next 
fall.
Now personally I mus{; admit that 
promises do,ut make a hit, with me, 
because Im very weak, and break 
them all within a week. But this is 
my advice to you, "Do as I say, not 
as I do.
EXCHANGES
You cant prove a thing 
By the length of time 
She keeps you 
Waiting in the parlor 
Before she trips down.
But. a pretty sure index 
Is the length of time 
She permits- you 
To keep her waiting 
After you have both said: 
Good night.
Penn Punch Bowl.
Prof: "All, you were in the foot
ball gamo Saturday.
Dub: "Yes, sir.
Prof: "And you got hurt in the
fracas.
Dub: "No* sir, I got hurt in the
shoulder.Petrel.
When Eve passed the luscious fruit 
Thenclothing came In style.
Well have to pass the fruit again 
In a short, short while.
Sun Dodger.
Roa'l Intensivo training in debate 
Is the plan of Ohio Wesleyan for this 
yoar. Dates for argumentative con
tests have already been arranged with 
Colgate, Princeton, West Virginia, 
Oborlln, Wooster, Western Reserve 
and Allegheny. These institutions 
havo some of tho best forensic ma
terial in the country. The manage
ment also Intends to arrange for con
tests with other universities. The 
first of the series, tho debate with 
Itenerve, on the Open andj Closed 
Shop lssuo, will occur shortly before 
tho Christmas rocoes.
ARTS THEATERTech History
"THREE PATRONS CRITICIZE
A SAD TALE
Chapter 1The man was calm and 
collected as he huiitod lor the loalc 
In the gas line with a 'match'.
Chapter 2I-le still Is calm, but so 
far has not been collected.
Curtain. 1 ]gx.
SCIENCE IN THE AIR
Tho remont record breaking airplane 
flight of Lieut. J. A. MacReady to a 
height of over <10,000 feet, was mado 
possible through the use of special 
turbine supercharger. This is a de
vice which takes the scant supply of 
oxygen from the rarefied atmosphere 
at these tremendous heights and com-: 
presses It to sea level density, supply
ing it at this density to the carbure
tors of the airplane engine.
The supercharger does the same' 
tiling- for the engine that oxygen, 
flasks do for the pilotprevents suf
focation.
Beyond altitudes of 15,000 feet, the 
aviator must begin to take oxygen.
As the aviator approaches 20,000 
feet, the gas engine of his airplane 
begins to struggle, also for want of 
oxygen; for at that level there is only 
half as much oxygen in the atmos
phere as there is at sea level.' The 
speed of the engine slows down beause there is not enough oxygon for 
combustion.
Mded by the supercharger, however, 
the airplane can now master heights 
unattainable without it. The super
chargor has given tho.gas engine of 
tho airplane actually-more vitality 
than tho man who rldos in tho airphino.
Dr. Sanford A. Moss, rosoarch onglnoor, who designed tho G. ID. super.burger, has made tho apparatus work 
by means of a completo cycle of opitlons. Tho red-hot exhaust gases 
from the airplane engine, which for
merly passed of! Into tho air as wastid energy, aro now made to discharge 
against a small turbine wheel, causing 
It to revolve at between 20,000 and 30,- j 
000 revolutions per minute. j
The turbine drives a centrifugal air 
compressor, which compresses, the, 
small percentage of oxygen in the I 
rarefied air to sea level density and 
feeds it into tho carburetors of, tho I 
engine. That enables the engine to 
continue running at full power; to 
continue driving tho propeller of the 
airship; j\nd to continue discharging 
exhaust ga^es, which, in turn, continue 
to operate the turbine wheel.
> 
Mr. Caldwefll: Are you a grad
uate of an accredited high school? 
Prospective student: "Yes, sir.
Mr. C.: "Do you smoke or drink?"
P. S.: "No, sir, but I can soon
learn. Technique.
GLASS HOUSES, ETC.
The Prof. had written on the back 
of a theme:
Please write more legibly.
Next flay: "Prof. what is that you 
put on my theme?Tar Baby.
CHIPS FROM MANY BLOCKHEADS
He wore his college frat pin 
Just southward of his heart.
And vowed that from that resting 
place;
That pin should neer depart.
Years that passed still found him 
Ever firm and standing pat 
Still wearing his college frat pin 
in honor of his frat.
One day two eyes confused' him. 
His h'igli resolve took chase.
A soft voice coaxed that frat pin 
From its odd abiding place.
Theyre now in a little bungalow, 
With "Welcome on the mat.
And tlio frat pin?fastons baby 
cblothos,
In honor of his frat.
- McGill Daily.
Prof.- "What, Is density?
Student"I canot doflno It, but I 
can give an example.
Prof."This example Is good, sit 
down.Burr.
ManIs Now York the next stop? 
PorterYas, saL, brush you off, 
sail?
Mau-No* Ill got off myself.Bant
er.
Bounder"Whs 
trunks doing over 
Rounder"Wli} 
rus girls clothes 
Bounder"Let1 
show.
are all those 
here by the door?" 
tliose are the chogo to another
One enjoyment of -the plays on the 
one act bill varied greatly. It was 
unfortunate In the first place that 
two .. themes based on blindness 
should havo been selected for the 
same performance. "King Rene's 
Daughter did not suffer a great deal 
ffom this, coming first as it did, but 
It had enough to contend with with
out any added monotony of subject 
matter. It Is too bad that the night 
faculty cannot select something leBS 
antiquated in style and stilted Jn ex
pression than the majority of their 
productions havo been. The students 
are willing and anxious to work, but 
they are comparatively inexperienced 
and should not be expected to carry 
these badly written plays. The lead
ing lady with her curls and the hero 
with his red wig at least made the 
moBt, of the pictorial side of their 
parts.
"The Poem of, David was a splen
did production, convincing in both 
Its poetic and its commercial, real
istic moments. Mr. Lubin actually 
lived the character of the blind poet: 
his work was as nearly perfect as it 
could he; but this is not surprising, : 
as we have soon very few parts that 
he has ever done badly. Miss 
McAuley was typical of the charac
ter she represented, Mr. Lazarus con
vincing, although a little insecure in 
his lines, and both Miss Cohen and 
Mr. Paquin very satisfactory indeed. 
The play Is a one man play, and Mr. 
Lubin. was perfedtly suited to it.
For . "The Playboy^-the direction* 
was excellent, its painstaking thor
oughness was always evident to the 
audience' as it has been in all of Mr. 
Osborne's productions. The offstage 
effects, however, were disappointing. 
The All's and "Oh's were unreal, 
cheap and melodramatic, and the 
cheering frcm the races was at times 
ill timed and far too near. The socalled jig in the third act was highly 
theatrical. A more unified move
ment with fewer people would per
haps have made it,more convincing.
The setting was solid, real, and 
most professionall in Its appearance, 
although the lighting at'times was 
Tiad, tending to too much red on the 
sky. The round, yellow light that 
played on the center of the floor .was 
very unreal and annoying. It was 
no doubt necessary, ibut nevertheless, 
we did not like it, and think some 
other method of lighting the center 
of the stage without such an artifi
cial effect could have been used.
For the acting of ' the principal 
parts, the ensemble was quite fine, 
but individual parts left much to be 
desired. It is odd that, judging Prom 
tho program, the Irish members of 
the cast were far less adept, with the 
possible exception of Mr. Malloy, in 
the speaking of the Irish dialect than 
were those who seem  to have any
thing but Celtic blood. Mr. Sliaughency and Mr. McCarthy were partic
ularly bad. For some reason, every
one spoke so rapidly that a great 
deal of the thdlight was lost.' In 
real life, which the theater is supposed 
to picture, people, and especially peas
ants of Ireland, spealc with almost a 
drawl. We hopo that, for the good 
of the play, this unforgivable fault 
was remedied during the other per
formances.
Mr. McClure did a good piece of 
acting as the Playboy, but there was 
an undoflnabie something that lie 
lacked for the part. At times he 
soemod almost, over-con fid out; at 
others, not lit. all sure of himself, and 
his quick manner of speaking made 
him hard to understand. His is a 
trying part for any student: to attempt, 
but his charming personality was evidont to us most of the time, more 
than ever at the beginning of the 
second and tho end of the last act. 
We think Mr. McClu're needs and de
serves a good part hit a modern, 
would you call it "straight part?
Miss Floyds acting was uneven. 
Perhaps the part, a difficult one to 
analyze, was at fault, and) not tlie 
young woman. In the scene where 
she cuddles In tlie arms of the Play
boy, she was adorable, but her char
acter was weak again in the next 
scene, and she varied thus through
out the play. One great advantage 
she had. however. She spoke very 
plainly at all times. Miss Ziele as 
the Widow Quinn, struck the high 
note of the performance; without a 
doubt. There is nothing we could 
suggest as an improvement on her 
splendid work. We hope to see her 
often. Miss Kaufman and _ Miss 
Skurkay brought a fine, healthy fresh
ness to - their wee parts. Mr. Cald
well got away from his usual monot
onous sameness, and. did a. very good 
bit of acting in a part which lie made 
convincing in spite of the fact that 
he was ill fitted in type to play it. 
Mr. Szold was veiy pleasing in an 
unsympathetic character, but he 
showed a tendency to grow loud and 
overact. The rest of the large cast 
acted well, but were bad as to clear
ness of speech.
NEW X-RAY APPARATUS
Elimination of the danger from con
tact with high voltage wiring in the 
use of modern X-ray apparatus, has 
been accomplished recently by Dr. W. 
D. Coolidgo. The X-ray tube and 
transformer aro enclosed 'in an oil 
tilled niot.nl case within which t'lio or
dinary household current is "stepped 
up to a pressure of between 40,000 
and 60,000 volts. The X-rays then 
pass through tho cover of tho caso 
and are used in the regular way for 
making photographs. Tho case which 
contains the high tension elements is 
grounded and swung from a folding 
arm or bracket allowing the rays to 
be directed at any angle. Only a low 
voltage lead of 110 volts is exposed 
and this comes from tho lighting cir
cuit. ,
The apparatus is suitable for den
tal work or general radiography. Its 
development is said to be a big for
ward step towards making X-ray ap
paratus safer trf ~ : nt any
other time in t/ -',s are^ e obtj
1910-11.
Sjeptem'ber 23The Plebes lost 
the class scrap by a score of 16 to 
131.
October 1Carnegie Tech's foot
ball season opened when the Plaid 
played a 0 to 0 tie with Wayneaburg College. The teams were even
ly matched, although Tech slightly 
out-played her opponents.
October 22The football team 
won it3 first victory this season 
when they defeated Geneva by u 
score of 5 to 0. Techs defensive 
work was * the best that has been 
seen this year.
Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag 
held an informal reception in Tech's 
new athletic field house. The occa
sion marked the opening of the new 
gymnasium, and a large number of 
the students, alumni and faculty 
members took part.
October 26The Constitution of 
the Athletic Association was adopt
ed.
October 29On to Washington! 
Three hundred rooters accompanied 
the team to Washington for the W. 
& J. game. We lost 8 to 0, how
ever the game was a good one in all 
respects.
November 19Tech fought gamely 
against Pitt in the last game of 
the season. The rooting for both 
schools was good, each cheerleader 
endeavoring to produce moi'e noise 
than his opponent. The game was 
a good one throughout. Only in 
the second period did Pitt have any 
great.. advantage, scoring twentythree of their thirty-five points dur
ing' this period. Tech failed to 
score.
November 23Andrew Carnegie, 
founder and patron of Tech, donated 
a million and a half dollars to U 
school.
November 25Andrew Carnegie 
celebrated his birthday in New York, 
lie was presented a beautiful, silver 
tray by the students.
December 13The first 1910 per
formance of "The Triumph of St, 
Nicholas, the traditional play of M 
M. C. S. was .given in the gymnasi
um of the school.
December 14The erection of the 
new gymnasium makes it possible 
for Tech to have a basket ball team 
for the coming season. Manager 
Blanchard has arranged an 0exceptionally good1 schedule.
December 20The Glee and Mando
lin Clubs gave their first out of town 
concert at Zelienople, Pa. The con
cert was booked as the chief attrac
tion on their Lyceum lecture course, 
and they played to a "standing room 
only house. The entire program was 
received with hearty applause and 
many encores, establishing the suc
cess of the clubs entertainment.
The program was divided into three 
parts. First a straight college glee 
and mandolin club program, second a 
musical sketch of Mutt and Jeff, and 
third,, the best of all, an interpreta
tion of a college bon-fire as painted 
on posters and as pictured in Ralph 
D. Paines books. The scene repre
sented a college campus at night and 
began with the Stein song. So suc
cessful was this scene, that it seemed 
impossible to close the program.
The record made by the Musical 
Clubs pn this trip was admirable, 
both from the excellent program ren
dered, and the gentlemanly manner in 
which they acted while In the town.
December 11A new organization, 
known as The Day Draftsmens 
Club, was organized. It was com
posed of the members of the Upper 
Drafting class, to promote fellowship 
and scientific pursuit. Where is it 
now?
December 16Tech Cross Country 
men won the Junior trophy in a meet 
held by the P. A. A. Waite, McCorkle and Beeken were stars.
December 30The Carnegie Tech
nical Schools were admitted into the 
Intercollegiate Athletic Association 
through the work of Dr. Savage and 
tile' excellent showing made by our 
teams. As a matter of record, it re
mains that our school was invited to 
take out < a membership, and  did not
need to make a formal request. Dr. 
Savage represented the school in the 
athletic conference, where Intercolle
giate athletics were discussed.
January 9Tech loses in basket 
ball to the strong Westinghouse Club,. 
19-23. In the first collegiate game 
of the season with Allegheny, Tech. 
loses, 23-34, in a fast game.
January 9For the first time in two 
years the Athletic Association grant
ed "C sweaters to the football team.
January 13The annual banquet of 
the Sophomores of the School of Ap
plied Science and Applied Design took 
place at the Schenley Hotel. Ihe 
banquet was so successfully arranged 
that not a single Plebe was aware-of 
occasion or was able' to mar the suc
cess of it.
January 20Tech and Pitt played a 
fast game, with a final score of Tech 
25Pitt 30. The game was played 
on the Duquesne Garden floor.
January 30The School of Applied 
Design took a week off to make a 
number of inspection trips to the va
rious plants about Pittsburgh.
PAINTl
Are you ambitious to tell people 
that you are alive? Then grab a 
paint brush and daub everything in 
sight.
Must you inform the world that 
your class is unquestionably super
ior? Merely tear open the nearest 
paint can and pour the contents right 
and left.
Whatever, you do, dont be original! 
Dont invent something new, but con
tinue in the rut, continue to repeat 
the same mildewed, childish pranks 
that have been tried a thousand times, 
in short, smear the campus with 
paint!
If there is one thing the student 
body should discountenance, or, at 
least, learn to discountenance, it is 
the malicious practice of  allowing 
class rivalry, or sometimes mere play
fulness, to express itself by marring 
college buildings and destroying the 
appearance of the campus.
The recent efforts of the nightprowling painters were due, we feel 
sure, not to any willful intent to de
face, but rather to misguideed class 
spirit. But though class spirit is a 
commendable thing, It should always 
be confined within, certain limits. To 
injure the appearance of the campus 
is never a challenge to a single other 
class, but a disgrace to Otterbein.
In the future put away - the paint 
and the whitewash, and if youthful 
exubrance must express itself let it 
be in some way not defacing those 
things we should all hold dear.Tan 
and Cardinal.
THATS PROGRESS 
1910
"Where are you going, my pretty 
maid?
Im going a-milldng, sir, she said.
"May I go with you, my pretty 
maid?
"No, sir! Were not introduced! 
she said. 0
~n:r; i
1921
f'Hey, kid! Where are you blowing 
today?
"To dance, you :boob! Now, dont 
get gay!
"May I hang on while you terpsichore?
"Break in! Get wise! Dont say any 
more!
MotherGladys you stood on the 
porch quite a good while with that 
young man last night.
Gladys'Why, mother, I only stood 
there for a Becond.
MotherBut Im sure I heard the 
third or fourth.Minnesota Foolscap.
He tried to walk across the street 
with his. legs, light his pipe with his 
hands and mouth, see a pretty girl 
with Ms eye's, and think about his er
rand With his brain, all at one and the 
same time. Now he aint. I
OUT OF TUNE
Suburbanite  That cat of yours 
kept me awake all night with its 
yowling:
Neighbor  Sorry, but you dont 
want me to kill it, do you?
Suburbanite  No, but couldnt you 
get it tuned?
PANAMA CANAL EMERGENCY DAMS
$
ATUN LAKE, eighty-five feet above sea 
level, is the reservoir holding the water 
to feed the Gatun Locks (which lead to the 
Atlantic) and the'Mirafiores and Pedro Miguel 
lopks on tlie Pacific end of tlie Canal.
Every' ship going through the canal in either 
direction uses the water from Gatun Like to 
lift it from the one oce:>.n and lower it into the 
other. Should some accident destroy avlock, 
the weight of water released might force down 
the others and cause tremendous damage and, 
by lowering the level of the lake, make the 
canal inoperative until rain had refilled the lake. 
Therefore these big emergency dams were con
structed. Normally they are not used. In 
emergencies they would be swung over the 
locks, the gates would drop into position and 
effectually dam the opening.
Otis engineers designed, constructed ^and in
stalled the machinery for operating six of these 
gigantic darns. It is a feat typical of the world
wide scope of Otis activities in engineering and 
the vertical transportation of men and materials.
Most of the famous buildings of the icorld 
ere equipped u iih Olis Elevators.
OTIS .ELEVATOR COMPANY
OSces in all Principal Ciucs of the World

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY ;4, 1922THte TARTANTHREE
BASKET BALL 
TEAM WINS
| not a success in the win column for 
Tech. was nevertheless as much a suc
cess as Coach Hal Iddings desired, 
for he desired more to give his new 
men a try-out rather than turn in a 
victory. This much was gleaned from 
a clipping out of the Akron papers. 
Second string men started the game, 
and continued throughout with the 
exception of the last three minutes of 
play, when Tech literally walked away 
with the Goodyear squad, but not 
quite enough to snatch the game out 
of the loss column.
For Tech, Dosey again starred with 
two field goals and six fouls. Alexan
der and Sawyer played good games at 
guard when put into the game, show
ing good and uncanny passing ability.
Carnegie Institute ot Technology 
Basket Ball Schedule
Season 1921-22
BY H. F. SIMPSON
BASKET BALL
The basket ball team will open their home season at the Motor Square 
Garden on January 7th, with Waynesburg College. This will glvo Techites 
their first chance to see the team in action, and a capacity crowd should 
welcome them. The garctens can take care of a large crowdapproximately 
ten times as much as Tech Gym. That garden should be filled! Tech has 
the team, and deserves the whole-hearted support of all Tech n\enall of 
which reminds me: if you are a Tech Man, youll bo out there! If a mere 
student, I guess wo cant count on you being there!
The team will have a number of new faces, among them are our old 
football friends: Sawyer, Potter, Moessner, Mills, Newman, White, Anderson 
and Weirmark Of course all of these men cannot make the team, but thoyro 
out there giving their best for Tech. Dosey, Captain Gibson and Bell of last 
years team are again giving their usual great game.
Come out, one and all, and give them a royal good welcome!
A MUCH-NEEDED REMEDY
In another column of this paper, announcement is made that the football 
field will be re-surfaced and new bleachers erected so that the seating ca
pacity will be about doubled. Furthermore, it is announced that the expense 
will be borne jointly by both the Athletic Association and the School.
The importance of this to the football Interests of Carnegie Tech cannot 
be oyer-estimated, so very great is it. The value to the football team in 
having a first-class field to play on is of course the greatest benefit. Tho 
value in mere money is a great help from the school to tho Athletic Associa
tion. But perhaps of greatest significance is the co-operation shown by tho 
school.
For the average student to appreciate the above, a lit'tle past history 
would be necessary. In the-years preceding 1919, the athletics of the school 
were under the complete control of the school. Under this rule affairs 
were not at all satisfactory to the student body nor the alumni. Teams 
were not supported properly. Funds were not near sufficient. To remedy 
this, the students requested entire control of athletics, t Their request was 
granted, and from that date to this, the school has practiced the hands 
off policy in the fullest interpretation of the words. The athletic association 
found it necessary to ask the students for an extra fee to support athletics. 
The students answered by a voluntary subscription of about $12,000, which 
sufficed to support athletics up to the great Tech "A. E. F." drive among the 
Alumni and sporting public of Pittsburgh. 'In other words, the athletics at 
Carnegie Tech are supported entirely by the student body, and the Alumni 
Association, with no help whatever from the school.
Knowing this, the true significance of. the school and the Athletic As
sociation coming together to remedy a crying need can truly be appreciated. 
It could not have been done by the Athletic Association alone, due to a lack 
of funds. Together it will be accomplished.
THE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
The football schedule for 1922 is a good one. It is just tho sort of a 
schedule that Techs football team demanded. There are four lifird games, 
interspersed with five games with the so-called Class B teams, which will 
serve well to keep the team on edge for the bigger games.
Judging from the Pittsburgh newspaper comments, there is an opinion 
that the Yale game is a weak spot on the schedule. This column bogs to 
differ. It does at first glance seem as If the season is starting off with too 
hard a game, but it is believed that the Carnegie Toch team can stand tho 
gafT. In the first place, with a veteran team of two campaigns on the field, 
and four weeks of hard practice under the guidance of Coach Steffen, tho 
team will no doubt be on edge for the game. Again, the Yale team, while 
admitted good, with its super-abundance of material will perhaps bo a bit 
over-confident, while Tech will be figliting-mad. With such a state of mind, 
Tech surely ought to sho\y the eastern football players a thing or two about 
football as she is played In Western Pennsylvania.
A NEW YEAR
Welcome back to school, fellows! A new year Is here! This usually 
means a bunch of resolutions, which are kept or they are not lcopt, with tho 
latter usually predominating. But we at Toch can at least make a few, and 
hope that they will "work.
Why not let us resolve never to speak rt word against tho good name 
of Carnegie Tech? Why not let us resolve to support tho Tech loams by 
attending every game? Why not let us resolve to get the habit of thinking 
twice before any criticisms? Why not let us resolvo to, wherever wo aro, 
whenever we can, raise the standards of Carnegie Tech, to the highest, with 
praise ?
Fellows, anyone can make resolutions, but it takes move than a more 
anyone to keep them. Resolutions like the abovo aro not so hard to koop. 
Every loyal Tech man has a desire to do all In Ills power to aid and advanco 
Tech. So, just let your own free will got the bettor of your baser solf. and 
then you surely will keep these resolutions, and in that way GET BEHIND 
TECH.
December 29............
December 30 and 31
January 7..........
January 13..............
January 14..............
January 20...............
January 21...............
January 27.............
January 28..,...........
February 2..............
February 7..............
February 8..............
February 11............
February 17............
February 18...........
February 21............
February 22............
February 24............
March 2....................
March 4....................
Michigan Afiqlos ............................. There
Michigan University .....................There
Waynesburg..........Motor Square Garden
W. & J................................................ There
Lafayette..................Motor Square Garden
Grove City.........................................There
Allegheny ......................................... Thcro
W. & J............................................Tech Gym
Grove City...............Motor Square Garden
Westminster...........Motor Square Garden
Catholic University ....................... There
Navy ................................................... There
Allegheny ................................. Tech Gym
Buffalo ..................................... Tech Gym
Geneva ............................................... There
Geneva ..................................... Tech Gym
West Virginia ................................. Thcro
West Virginia...............................Tech Gym
West Virginia Wesleyan...........Tech Gym
Bethany.....................................Tech Gym
Tech, 33; Travis-Pemberton, 31.
Carnegie Tech started off her bas
ket ball season with a thrilling game 
with the Travis-Pemberton team of 
Youngstown, Ohio. The game had to 
continue through an extra five-minute 
period before Carnegie Tech was 
crowned the victors, the final score 
being 33-31.
The game was nip and tuck through
out, for at no time was there a differ
ence of over {hree points in the points 
of the two teams. The team play of 
both teams was a fine exhibition of 
such, with honors about even, and 
when it is considered the fact that 
%the Youngstown quintet is composed 
of a group of all-stars, much credit 
pust be given to the Tech five, and 
'to Coach -Hal Iddings, for his good 
work.
The score at the end of the first 
half was 18-17 with the Travis-Pem-1 
berton 'mefl on the winning end. 
Such a finish of the half was only 
made possible by the speeding-up of 
the Techites, for at the end of the 
beginning quarter, the T. P.s were far 
in the lead, making it appear at that 
time bad for the Plaid eolor bearers.
Dosey was the outstanding star of 
the Techites with Seven field goals 
and five fouls, making a total of 19 
points. The guarding' of Sawyer, 
Godden and Alexander featured. For 
the Travis-Pemberton Club, Mathieson was the star with six field goals, 
with Wilson next with two field goals 
and five fouls, making a total of nine 
points. The great lack of fouls called 
was one of the features of the game,, 
the game being played cleanly by both 
teams throughout, which showed good 
preliminary'training for both teams.
Tech, 23; Firestone, 15.
Tech started her best bets in this 
game, and as a result coming through 
with a decisive victory; the game 
never at any time being in the doubt 
column.
The game was featured by the 
splendid work of the team as a whole, 
with Dosey again the outstanding star, 
with nine- out of eleven fouls to his 
credit, aside from a number of field 
goals.
AT THE DAVISwork stamps him as ono of Tech's 
coming basket ball stars. Dosey is 
shooting fouls as of last seas'on, but 
it might be remarked tlmt very few 
games are won on foul shooting. Per
haps the whole fault can be found in 
faulty guarding, and in not following 
the ball as it goos down tho floor 
Perhaps this season Is going to bo a 
repetition of last season, when time 
and time again tho ball was rushed 
under the opponents gonl by Tech 
men, and one shot taken. Then tho 
opponents would gain tho ball and 
rush it right back, when the process 
would be repeatedresult: Nothing, 
merely a waste of breath running 
back and forth and up and dawn tho 
floor.
Let us hope the faults uncovered 
on this trip will bo remedied boforo 
tho opening homo game January 7tli, 
at the Motor Square Garden.
The Now Year's week bill of Keith 
vaudeville at the Davis theater, start
ing next Monday afternoon, January 
2, is one in which there is a galaxy 
of brilliant names. It will consist of 
nine acts which will bo given twice 
each day ,as well as at tho extra New 
Years afternoon performance, start
ing at *1:30 oclock. They aro all 
headlluors in this unusual program. 
Chic Sa.lo is to top the bill. He is 
an impersonator of rural characters 
taken from real life; who occupies a 
unique niche all his own In tho theat
rical profession today. In addition to 
having starred with various brilliant 
revues and headlined all over tho 
Keith circuit, Mr. Sale has recently 
achieved new distinction as a star of 
moving pictures, having prosontod a 
comedy, entitled "Hls-Nlbs. For liis 
week in the Davis theater, lie has 
chosen a. now odltlon of his Rural 
Sunday School Entortalnmout. it is 
in two seines, tho first representing a 
Sunday morning and-tlio'second a Fri
day evening. In theao scones, Mr. 
Salo plays all the oharactors himself, 
resorting to very little make-up and 
accomplishing his transitions (from 
ono role to another In full.vlow of tho 
audlonco. Ho ranges tho scale of rus
tle characters from youth to old ago, 
and his whole porl'ormanco Is humor
ous.
WAS IT CHMPGE-?
A pretty young damsel from Me, 
Loved a fellow exceedingly pie.,- 
But this bold homely Mr.
Untiringly kr.
Age, and age, and age.
Williams Purple Cow.
English Prof. Who wrote this 
composition for you?
Freshman. My roommate.
Prof. All of it?
Freshman. No, I helped him a little. 
The Athenaeum.
B. N. GREENLAW, 
Captain-elect of cross-country, Is 
veteran letter man from previous 
seasons. He Is also a C" man in 
track, running the two mile event. 
His cross-country work has been 
steady and1 consistent. Although 
not of tho typo that stars, he can 
always be depended upon for a good 
place In any race. He is well liked 
by the men on the team and should 
make a most capable leader for an 
all-star team In 1922.
Old students should know  new 
students may be' glad to leamthat 
Pittsburgh has a store which special
izes on Greeting Cards for all pur
posesFriendship, Birthday, Anniver
sary, Wedding, Convalescent, etc., 
namely, the Singer Pen and Gift Shop 
in Jenkins Arcade.
SOME GIRLS ARE SO 
THOUGHTFUL
Goodyear Rubber, 22; Tech, 19. 
The second game of the trip while i.Tonnlo-What aro you knitting. 
Sue?
SueSomething Lo ehoor up tho 
boya;
JonnioWhy, tho war wiiB.ovor 
long ago!
SreThis Is a bathing suit for mo, 
iny dear.Ex.TECH LOSES MICHIGAN GAMES
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
Sawyer shooting 1. Three fouls by 
Dosey complotod Techs scoring. For 
Michigan, RoaBon, McGregor, Ely and 
Rea, together shot 10 Hold goals, 
while Rea rung up tho only foul. Tho 
play was spirited throughout ttils 
half, with neither team more than 
two points ahead of tho other, with 
tho load see-sawing back and forth.
But after tholr groat, play lu the 
first half a relapso was sufforod and 
as a result only throe pointH made 
and thoso iby tho foul siiootlpg of 
Dosey and Anderson, whllo Mloli|g#n 
continued her good work, scoring 27 
points through 12 field goals, and 
three fouls. Ely, Rea and Oappan 
were' tho marksmen In this slaughter.
Rotronpcct 
Sawyor sooms to bo tho outstand
ing star throughout, tlio ontiro trip, 
ho alono playing throughout the on
tiro.. time of ovory gamo. Ills iloor
AT THE GRANDRADIO
Tho story qf a girl who saves a 
young man from ruin, becomos his 
wlfo and then finds that, she has lilt
ed herself into a society that refuses 
to accopt her, Is that told In Norma 
Tiilmadgos groat First National at
traction. WDO1OJI Redemption," which 
Is to bo prosontod as the Now Years 
woolc feature at. tho Million Dollar 
Grand, Pittsburgh, starting next, Mon
day morning, January 2. Are socloty, 
big city life, tho complexities of civil
ization and tho si,niggles which they 
cause worth whllo, or Is II. hotter to 
llvo close t.o naturo, far from tho 
haunts of the elite, where oxlstonco 
Is simple and built upon fundamen
tals? Thoso aro among tho questions 
asked In Lovo!s Redemption, one or 
tho most Interesting storlos In which 
Miss Tulin (id go has over boon soon.
HEADQUARTERS
PRICES ItKIJJT
ItKST-Ol''' SERV.10H 
COMPLETE SETS 
$10 TO $.105
Conaort ovcry ovciiing.
General Lamp and 
Fixture Co.
0014 CENTER AVENUE 
EAST LIBERTY 
HUand 33D1
well to think about. A list of rules 
Is hereby glvon as a ipossi'blo nucleus 
for a el; of the same for Tech;
1. The banquet shall bo hold dur
ing a designated week.
2. The banquet shall bo hold with
in a radius of 30 miles.
3. A list of those mombors Intondlng 
to attend the banquet togothor with 
the name of the class president, and 
other officers of tho iolass shall be 
handed In a sealed envelope, to tho 
Doan at loost throe days boforo the 
banquet.
4. The banquet shall not be con
sidered a success unless 50 per cent 
of the members listed to attend 
plus the Plebe president are present.
5. Tho Banquet Rules Committee 
and the president of tho Senior Claas 
shall decide whether 'the banquet Is 
a success.
0. Tlie banquet shall be hold be
tween , the hours o (7) P. M. and 
(1) A. M.
7. No Plebe shall be held by 
Sophomores except during the (24) 
hours immediately preceding the ban
quet.
8. Freshmen shall be in the build
ing where the banquet is to bo held 
for three consecutive houp^ immedi
ately preceding1 the banquet in order 
to count toward the success of the 
'banquet. >
9. The use of flre-armsi or other 
weapons is prohibited.
Tlie Banquet Rules Committee con
sists of two Seniors, two Juniors and 
the Senior President.
From this it is easy to see how 
many Inconveniences now at
tendant at banquet time may 
'be avoided and the contest still hold 
itsi spirit of rivalry. Take rule (1) 
for instance, this obviates much of 
the cutting of classes so evident at 
this time as does rule (7). Rule (3) 
gives the Plebes a chance to keep 
the name of its president; secret. A 
chairman can act iu the president's 
capacity until after the banquet
In many colleges a set of rules 
similar to these is in use. They 
make the affair more of an organized 
contest and cause much more ex
citement, spirit of rivalry and class 
spirit between the classes, participat
ing.
Let us give the matter serious con
sideration and not let it pass with 
merely this montion. The present 
Ploves aro the ones who can do tho 
most about tills. Why not form ; 
committer; now' to discuss till with 
tho Studont Council as It Is a wot' 
known fact, that several members of 
tho present Plebe class are In favor 
of something along this order? Lets 
go, you men, who are In favor of 
this. Form a committee, talk It up 
and find out the. opinion of others, 
then do something.
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year.
BELL PHONE
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
Dear Editor:
The uppjerclassmens view of Plebo 
regulations Is probably a great deal 
different from the viewpoint taken 
by Sophomores and also by Plebes. 
A student who is now .spending hi 
third or  fourth year at dear old 
Tech can appreciate the value of 
Plebe regulations In general and 
feels that a large portion of liis 
school spirit which he no\y possesses 
is due to the year that he spent' um 
dergoing the trials and tribulations. 
of a Plebe.
But what is being done this year 
for our Plebe class that they .might, 
in tho course o a few years look 
back over their early days at Tech 
and feel that a little school spirit and 
interest wa& instilled in them by 
plebe regulations? Just drop in to 
one of the Plebe trials in Room 60 
some day and I think you will agree 
with me that the enforcement of 
Plebe regulations is very lax. Per
haps the blame for the repeated 
breaking of regulations is placed' on 
the Sophomore class by a large num
ber of those unacquainted with inside 
matters. To do this would be doing 
the Sophs| an injustice. They are do
ing their best to see that the Plebes 
do not stray from the straight and 
narrow path,- but what . comes of 
their efforts?
A few minutes before the trial the 
Plebe ha to but stop in the hall, 
think up an excuse for his disobedi
ence of the inles, announce it to the 
committee and be excused. Who 
wouldnt be discouraged? To bring 
up for trial a score of Plebes for 
trial only to have the small part of 
the Plebe Regulations Committee 
which appears at the trial dismiss 
them on the meekest excuses, is to 
do the 'Sophomoresi and Plebes alike 
an injustice.
The Sophs are the campus police
men when it comes to the Plebes 
Tiien why not at least give tho 
Plebes a trial that really is a trial 
and sentence them to what they de
serve. The Plebes are sure to be 
thankful at a later date for the bene
fit they derived from Plebo regula
tions and it 1s uip to the Regulations 
Committee to be at trio trials and 
do their duty for all concerned.
AN UPPERCLASSMAN.
The Accommodations at DUQUESNE GARDE
Are The Very Best.
Public Sessions 2:30 and 8:30 Daily.
For Party Reservations Call Paul Qualtrough, Manager 
Schenley 3106.
Special Student Sessions
Saturday morning, Afternoons after 3:30Lower rate.T
HOUSANDS of smokers have proved itand now give the verdict 
to youOf all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes
None has the delicious 
FLAVORof UiefinestTurkish 
S*\ None gives the ENJOY$) MENT of the finest Turkish
Jj None will SATISFY you as.
| will the finest Turkish
IfSf | None but the hihest gradeand personally selected 
flff | Turkish tobaccos is used in
fpll 1 MURAD
Wye! I  Toenjoy 100% pure Turkish
if at its LAST BESTto reach
|| the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
 yu have but to smoke 
MURAD 
s. Try MURAD today and
Judge for 
Yourself/
6100 PENN AVENUE
iiQiiiniiiuiiiiiinniiiiiQ'iiiiiiiiiiiiQiiiiiniiiuiiuninniiiiiniiiinnniiiiiinniiiuiiminiuiiiiiiiainiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniinumiiiiiniininniiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuniiiiiiiiiiiniiiiitiiiiimiiiiiiniuuniiuiiiiiii1''
ANDERSONS
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES ST., Oakland Next Strand Theater
^BHHiifflBHiBaiiiiiinBiiiBBiMiiiniiiaiajiniiiiiiiflBBniH iii^iniiimiiimmiBiiiiHi^iiiBiHBiimmBinmiimMmniriMieifflimBiiniMBinninDniniBmfiinnBHiiimmninimiiffil.
CAPITAL STOCK OWNED BY P.LORILLAP.D CO.
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
JOS. E. KRUMM, Prop. 
5522 WALNUT STREET
HARRYS
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
FORBES, Near Murray 
Pittsburgh, Penna.
SKIBO INN j
Remodeled and "'
- Enlarged %
CLEAN, |
WHOLESOME |
FOOD I
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY |
Should the Plebci banquet bo gov
erned by rules? o
There has been considerable dis
cussion this year as to whether It 
would be a good thing to have the 
Plebe banquet governed by) rules 
or not.
Ip many colleges of the country 
where this annual contest is held 
such Ls the case. This idea has 
many good points which it might be
FINEST WORK |
OPPOSITE LIBRARY I
He: Why did everybody cry dur
ing the death seen) in that play? 
They must have knoKvn that the act
or was not dead. i 
Him: Yes, that ttfas just It.

---------------------------------------------------

FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 4, 1922
FIFTH ANNUAL XMAS 
PARTY OF ERIE CLAN
ATTENTION, ALUMNIHARRISBURG 
CLELBRATON
TECH CLAN AT PHILA.. 
HOLDS XMAS BLOW OUT
M. M. C. ALUMNAE^EWSThis is for the ladies as well as 
the gentlemen. When your suit
needs cleaning or pressing call
Schenley 389. We will call for it 
and deliver it Our work is the
best, our service quick, our'prices 
reasonable. Miss OLeary, 3933 
Forbes street.
MEETING OF 
N. Y. CLAN
A few weeks ago the alumni office 
anked that any alumni who have cop
io of the "Thistle,"' for which they 
do not have further use, end them to 
the -onice, 155-A, Industrie Building, 
uo that the file may bo completori. 
Copies of the following editions are 
needed : 1908, 1009, 1011, 1012, 1014,
1018, 1010 and 1021. Please send these 
ut your earliest convenience.
The Brie Clan held Its fifth annual 
Christina party the Tuoday follow
ing Christmas at Pulakos tea room.
The Palace Trio furdl&hcd the mu
sic to which Erie alumni and students 
home for the holidays danced until 
the woo small hours.
The committee In charge of the af
fair was composed of H. . Weber, 
chairman; A. J. liodlund and 10. W. 
Cross.
Patronesses for the party Included 
Mrs. C. It. Austin, Mrs. W. K. Fawcett, 
Mrs. II. Gobhardt, Mrs. II. II. Hall, 
Mrs. A. .T. Hedlund, Mrs. A. A. Holmes 
and Mrs. H. A. Weber.
The Annual Xma Party of tho 
Harrisburg Clan was. hold at the 
Colonial Country Club December 20. 
Then; wore sixty Tech men and 
women present, At C:UO p. on. a de
licious slx-courso dinner was served. 
Mr. C. ,l. IJuHliong, 15, was toast
master for the evening and he Intro
duced CojnmIloner Connolly, former 
T)eun of tho Division of Industries, 
who gave a splendid talk In regard 
to lihe Alumni and their relation to 
tho School. Mr. ICxllne, president of 
the Philadelphia Clan, was then In
troduced and guvo a report of tho 
Philadelphia meeting ot December 10 
and asked for bettor co-operation be
tween Clans, fooling thaU It 1 one of 
the best ways of kooplng Intact our 
Alumni Association, Mr. Batman, 
who was present, representing the 
Alumni Office was Introduced, and 
gave a brief outline of tho work that 
the Alumni Association has accom
plished during tho past year. Ho 
praised the Harrisburg Clan for the 
splendid work that hey lrnvo been 
doing, especially the Interest that 
they have taken in athletics, being 
responsible for sending to Tech two 
of our best athletes, Cy Comfort and 
(Herb Sawyer. Ho poke of the Im
portance of |plan work and asked the 
Harrisburg CJa to consider their 
work In tho past as only started and 
that each and every member should 
endeavor to oxert every effort In 
kooplng alive tile Alumni Association 
in Harrisburg.. After tho dinner the 
party retired to the dance hall. Dur
ing tho dance novelty skottihes wore 
put on by. P. D. Good, Kd Green, Rich 
Lawrie and John Todd All In all the 
party was- a wondorful success and 
full of pop at all times. Much credit 
is due M. ID. Greon, chairman of tho 
Committee on Arrangements, as ho 
did not leave a stono. unturned in 
making tho party such a big success. 
Everyone proBont is already looking
Hakes Recommendations On 
New Gym ProjectAp^ 
points CommitteeBELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
The Church of Friendly People 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School........... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service.........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M. 
Evening Service..... 8:00P.M. 
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
THE MAGIC SHOP
Have all the Tech alumni in New 
York or those visiting in New York 
heard of the Magic Shop at 170 Sulli
van street? If not, bo sure to drop 
in and see Ruth Pontius, M. M. C. C.( 
1010, who maintains one of the finest 
little tea rooms in Greenwich Village. 
If you don't think this is so, call up 
some of the Now York Clan members 
who liavo held their meetings there.
8T. LOUIS CLAN ORGANIZE8
MANHATTAN 
RESTAURANT 
3801 FIFTH AVENUE
Try Our Special Plate 
Lunch40c 
A Students Restaurant 
For the Students 
Reasonable Prices.
Tt Is a plo'asiii'o to announce that 
St. Louis has completed tho quota 
necessary for a Carnogle Tech Alumni 
Club and has been named "The Far
thest West Clan."
The first meeting for tho Clan will 
lake place In tho American Hotel at 
dinner six thirty on tho evening of 
January seventh, nineteen twentytwo, wben the election of oflcers for 
the year and tho future business and 
meetings of .tho Clan will be arrang
ed.
It is requested that everyone turn 
out at this meeting, bring your 
friends.
It will bo appreciated if you ad
vise the writer that you will bo pres
ent at this meeting. And from those 
out of town 'members that will ho 
unable to attend, wo will expect a let
ter giving us their views.
CLAN ORGANIZED
AT WASHINGTON
The Washington Clan was formal
ly organized on the night of Decem
ber 9 at a meeting in the Belevedere 
Restaurant on G street. It was> a 
'representative Tech gathering. Mr. 
Walton and Mr. Tilbrook of Tech weto 
present and gave detailed Informa
tion a to just what Is going on about 
school as well as submitting some 
preliminary sketches and information 
concerning tho Gymnasium location 
and proposed structure. Those pres-, 
ent wore especially favored in hav
ing Professor Wlllet, former head of 
the Commercial Engineering Depart
ment with them. He gave a very in
teresting talk and promised to back 
I the Clan to the, limit.
Tho members present were very 
enthusiastic and there is no question 
'but what the Washington Clan will 
become a great factor in TechB 
future.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e 8 for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADERook Jo Sentry: Halt, whos there? 
Voice: Private Stock, Company
Rookie Sentry: Advance, Privato
Stoolc, and tyo sampled.Tho Amer
ican Legion Weekly.Character 
Buildingforward to tho Xmas party of next 
year. *ADVERTI8E AND GET RESULT8Early association with a 
strong banking institution 
will not only inculcate thrift, 
but the kindly advice of its 
experienced officers will as
sist you materially.
We welcome the accounts 
of sincere men and women.
DO IT RIGHTl 
With the Goodyear Welt System
FORBES (Near Craig)
Heres whyCAMELS atethe quality cigarette
Fsfl3i Avcnuo Boot SJsop 
near 40th Ctrcct, New York 
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
Exhibit Shops 
In all the larger cities.B
ECAUSE we put the utmost quality into 
this one brand. Camels are as good as its 
possible for skill, money and lifelong knowledge 
of fine tobaccos to make a cigarette.
Nothing is too good for Camels. And bear 
this in mind! Everything is done to make 
Camels the best cigarette its possible to buy. 
Nothing is done simply-for show.
Take the Camel package for instance. Its the 
most perfect packing science can devise to pro
tect cigarettes and keep them fresh. Heavy 
papersecure foil wrappingrevenue stamp 
to seal the fold and make the package air-tight. 
But theres nothing flashy about it. Youll find 
no extra wrappers. No frills or furbelows.
Such things do not improve the smoke any 
more than premiums or coupons. And remember 
you must pay their extra cost or get lowered 
quality.
If you w$nt the smoothest, mellowest, mildest 
cigarette you can imagineand one entirely free 
from cigaretty aftertaste,
Its Camels for you.
PLUMMER OR MUSICIAN? HE
ASKED PHYiSCHOLOGY DEPT
pi mr---------
Deluxe,
Student Note Books
give you better value 
for your money.
they work better and 
wear longer.
all sizes and rulings.
ask to see them.
DIRECTORY OF ECH CLANS
/ FOR
RUE CENTS
i B130The Flavor Lasts!
R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, W>
ALUMNI PAGE
