SHALL WE SEE YOU AT THE 
GAMBOL OF THE GUILDS 
THURSDAY, MARCH 21?
DON'T BE SELFISH 
CONTRIBUTE TO THE 
STUDENT FRIENDSHIP DRIVE
VOL. XVIII NO. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1924
INDUSTRIES TO 
DANCE IN UNION 
THURSDAY NITE
MINING DEPARTMENT MAN
TO ASSIST ENGLISHMAN
BHARAT ASSOCIATION TO
HOLD MEETING SATURDAY
Gambol of Guilds, Yearly 
Frolic of Industries College, 
Will be Held on Night of 
February 21
ALL SCHOOLS INVITED
The fete of fetes, the dance of 
dances, will? appear on the Campus, 
Thursday, embodied in the Gambol of 
the Guilds. Needless to say to miss 
this occasion is to lose one of the su
preme opportunities of a lifetime and 
can you afford to miss this glorious 
event?
You cannot. How could you look 
your Sweetie in the face after so 
frankly displaying your lack of interest or knowledge of the ne plus ultra 
upon the campus.
Preliminary tickets have been on 
sale during the past two weeks and 
the campaign has been very success
ful. Final tickets may be bought at 
the unusually low price of two fifty.
Since this will be the first dance 
about the campus after the lifting or 
the ban resulting from the scarlet 
fever scare, it should prove veiy pop
ular and the committee in charge un
der the leadership of Joe Davis is 
making strenuous efforts to meet the 
wildest expectations of those present.
It should be emphasized that the 
Gambol of the Guilds is an all school 
affair and the only requisite for ad
mission besides the price is a regis
tration card. Please do not forget the 
latter.
For music the Collegiate Imps have 
been secured and by way of decora
tionser, we promised not to divulge 
the plans with regard to these, but 
say, theyre simply scrumduvious. 
You will never be able to recognize 
the Union when the work is done.
ARTSBALLPROBABLY 
WILL BE MARCH 28
Date Not Definitely Set Due 
to Conflicts With Other 
Events
Considerable confusion has resulted 
from the postponing the Arts Ball be
cause of the ban placed on all social 
activities throughout the school. As 
far as the ball committee can see, 
March 28 seems to be the logical 
date.
Whether this will be definite or not 
depends upon the way in which tho 
Soph Hop and other social activities 
which have been definitely arranged, 
can be moved to other convenient 
dates. The Drama Department plays 
must also be taken into consideration 
in setting a new date.
The committee hopes to arrive at a 
definite decision in the very near fu
ture.
Though it is doubtful if the GarberDavis orchestra can be re-engaged for 
the ball, a very good orchestra (to be 
announced later) will be obtained for 
both the ball and the post-ball dance.
However, the enthusiasm for the 
ball is still corked up inside Arts 
School, and only increases with the 
delay. The decorations are nearing 
completion, and with the extra work 
which the postponement will enable 
the committees to put upon the prep
aration, the ball should be even more 
of a success than was previously ex
pected.
Some of the architects welcome the 
postponment. They are en charette 
rather often (most all the time), and 
have been unable to put as much time 
as they would like upon their cos
tumes. With a few we'eks more in
genuity lavished upon them, the cos
tumes for the ball should be the most 
gorgeous, unique and original of any 
Arts Ball.
Captain Edward Steidle of the de
partment of mining engineering has 
been invited to join the delegation of 
coal mining men who will assist Dr. 
R. V. Wheeler, Director of the De
partment of Fuel Telinoiogy of the 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, Eng
land, in his study of mining conditions 
and practices in this country.
Dr. Wheeler will be here from Feb
ruary 27 to March S. He is officially 
representing the British Government 
in connection with an international 
co-operation in the mining industries 
of this country and England.
I
CARNEGIE GROWING 
MORE ECUMENICAL
Number of Students Coming 
From Distant Lands is 
Increasing
Carnegie Tech is rapidly attaining 
the goal of a great center of learn
ing, a place chosen by zealous stu
dents from the four corners of the 
world, at which to continue their 
studies. This year Carnegie has an 
enrollment of five thousand, which is 
an unparalleled growth in an insti
tution of its age and size. More sig
nificant than the numbers, however, 
is the fact that more states and coun
tries are represented than ever before 
in the history of the school. Car
negie fame has traveled far and wide.
It makes one feel that there must 
be something worth getting whim he 
encounters students from the Orient' 
sitting side by side in classes with 
those from Alaska. Although the aims 
of some may be very indefinite, it is 
quite certain that students who come 
thousands of miles are guided by clear 
aims and strong ambitions.
Students of this vicinity are bound 
to view Carnegie in a different light 
from those of foreign countries. The 
former generally think of it as only 
one of numerous good institutions sim
ilar in most respects. Tho latter 
think of it as the institution in the 
United States which is best suited to 
their ideals of higher education.
All of the students should note this 
increase in number of students from 
foreign countries with gladness. It 
means that each and every individual 
is to gain in breadth of experience 
from contact with the others. It of
fers many advantages which other
wise can be secured only through trav
el. The four states not represented 
this year aro Nevada, Arkansas, 
Rhode Island and New Mexico. The 
largest as well as the smallest coun(Continued on Page Three)
C. W. RICE ADDRESSES 
MECHANICAL SOCIETY
A meeting of the Bharat association 
will be held in Room 124 C, Industries 
Building at S:15 p. m., Saturday, Feb
ruary 23, 1924.
The speaker will be Dr. Francis D. 
Tysson, Professor at the University of 
Pittsburgh, who will talk on "Econom
ics in Relation to Nationalism. Dr. 
Tysson has devoted a great deal of 
time to a study of this subject and 
has prepared a talk which will be well 
worth hearing.
The meeting is open to tho public 
and all who are interested are cordial
ly invited to attend.
The above association has been on 
the campus for the last few years, and 
it serves to promote goodAvill and 
friendship based on correct mutual un
derstanding between the two widely 
separated countries of India and 
America.
MUSICAL CLUBS TO 
LEAVE ON OHIO TRIP
Annual Trip Will Begin To
morrow Night With 
Youngstown Concert
The Mens Glee and Mandolin clubs 
will leave for Ohio tomorrow after
noon. Director Rielil and forty mem
bers from the club will arrive on the 
special train at Youngstown,, their 
first destination, at about 6:30.
A concert will be given at the High 
School at 8:30 and then possibly a 
dance. The old club membbrs who 
have been there before are anxious to 
meet the people again.
The following morning everyone is 
supposed, to be up at sunrise for the 
first train to Orrville. Here a concert 
Will be given for the Saint Vincent 
Alumni. On the following night tho 
men. will be in Akron and on Satur
day night the clubs visit Cleveland.
Director Reihl, who has rehearsed 
the Glee Club on every detail, feels 
confident that the concerts will be a 
success. At first the membership in 
the club decreased because of scarlet 
fever but now that the most of the 
quarantines have been lifted, almost 
the entire squad is on hand.
Director Kovak of the Mandolin 
Club has refilled his ranks to the full 
fighting force and they promise to 
raise the roof wherevor they go.
The apodal numbers on the concert 
are exceptional ones and will, wo aro 
sure, be weel received. Besides the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
CAN YOU SING THE PRAISES?
Benefit Bridge Postponed 
To Saturday March Eighth
On account of the scarlet fever 
scare the Scholarship Benefit Bridge, 
which the Secretarial Club was to 
have held last Saturday in McCreerys 
dining room, had to be postponed un
til the afternoon of March 8th. All 
the arrangements had been made, but 
because of the quarantine, which 
would have prevented all of the dor
mitory girls from attending, It was 
deemed necessary to postpone it un
til after the ban is lifted.
McCreerys Dining Room has been 
secured for Saturday afternoon, March 
8th, and all former arrangements will 
be carried out on that date.
It is said that a postponement 
causes a failure, but in this case the 
girls of the Secretarial Club are look
ing for an even greater success than 
they had hoped for last Saturday. The 
extension of time will give an oppor
tunity for a larger sale of tickets. 
Save the date and the dollar.
Calvin W. Rice, Secretary of the 
American Society of Mechanical En
gineers, spoke before a large audi
ence of Mechanicals in room 10 Ma
chinery Hall, last Wednesday morn
ing. Some years ago Mr. Rice visit
ed one of the Carnegie Mechanical 
Society meetings, and advocated that 
the students have entire charge of 
their society, without any help from 
the faculty whatever.
Accordingly, Professor Trinks resign
ed his position as honorary chair
man and allowed the meetings to be 
run entirely by the students. Since 
that time, however, the society has 
rapidly degenerated, so that the ad
visability of going back to faculty su
pervision is being considered.
Mr. Rice spoke on the subject of 
making friends with our neighbor en
gineers. A large sum of money has 
been left by the Rockefeller Institute 
for the promotion of better acquaint
ance of American Engineering stu
dents with those of Europe and S'outh 
America. Considerable work of this 
sort is being done by the A. S. M. E., 
which has on several occasions re
ceived foreign students and secured 
positions for them or directed them 
to good engineering colleges.
He said that American students 
should try to get on more friendly 
terms with the foreign students in our 
schools. He also extended a cordial 
invitation to any students who could 
arrange to finance a trip to England 
next summer, to attend a big interna
tional meeting of engineers which is 
going to he held in London. This of
fers wonderful opportunities to meet 
men higher up in the engineering 
world, and to get the most possible 
benefit and instruction from travel 
abroad.
Plans for Soph Girls 
Banquet Progressing
Entertainment Promises Good 
Time for Those Present
Science Triangle Club 
Meeting Next Thursday
There will be a short and snappy 
meeting of the Science Triangle Club 
Thursday afternoon at 5:30 in Room 
122, Science. This time was chosen 
in order that every member might 
find it possible to attend and it is 
urged that all be present.
The chairman of the Pin Commit
tee will have a report to make about 
the pins which were chosen last week. 
Plans will be discussed for the party 
to be held in the near future, and 
all are asked to contribute their ideas.
The time for the regular meetings 
will be settled also. The greater the 
attendance at this meeting, the soon
er the club will commence its activ
ities which will place it in its proper 
sphere on the campus.
Excitement galorelittlo bits of in
side dope are leaking out from time 
to time that point to the fact that the 
Girls Sophomore Banquet, which will 
be held In the Hotel 'Schenley on 
March 1st, Is going to be a real affair.
The entertainment committee has 
been carefully guarding its program, 
but one littlo item has made its es
capethe Tartans are to furnish the 
music for the banquet! With a start 
like this the program should be an 
exceedingly interesting one.
The following committee has been 
working out the details of the plans 
for the banquet:
General Chalrman-^-Madeline Dale, 
M. M. C. C.
Program Committee  Chairman, 
Margaret Giffin, Arts; Alice Nelson, 
Arts; Dorothy Connor, M. M. C. C.
Committee on Arrangements  
Chairman, Camille ODonnell, M. M.
(Continued on Page Four.)
TO DISCONTINUE 
POVERTY DAY IS 
COUNCIL PLAN
Ancient Custom Will be Re
placed by New Ceremony 
Fool's DayPending Ap
proval of Administration
PLANNED FOR APRIL 1
Poverty Day will be discontinued 
this year, in all probability, arid an
other celebration called Fool's Day 
will be instituted in its place, was 
the decision of the Student Council 
delivered at its meeting last Wednes
day night. Jimmy Robertson, chair
man of the specials committee, report
ed that the committee felt that such a 
change would bo advisable, subject, 
of course, to the approval of the ad
ministration.
The date set for Fools Day Is April 
1, an appropriate day for such a cele
bration. It is planned to be much the 
same as Poverty Day; the Plebes tak
ing part and those having the best 
costumes will be relieved from Plobo 
regulations for the remainder of tho 
year, the only change being that tho 
costumes will be judged on their clev
erness and less on their scantiness.
E. R. Patton, S'enior Mechanical, 
was appointed chairman of Senior 
Week by the Student Council on tho 
recommendation of tho Specials Com
mittee.
C. N. Hollingsworth reported that 
Pi Delta Epsilon, tho Honorary Jour
nalistic Fraternity, would soon an
nounce the committee to draw up next 
years Carnegie Handbook. Ho also 
reported a small surplus for last yours 
Thistle.
Plans were dlscussod for conduct
ing the Sopli-Plebo class fight which 
is to be held before their banquets. 
It was decldod that tho Presidents 
of the College Senatos should bo tho 
judges.
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
What do you like about collogo co
eds, and what do you dislike?
Chester Brumbaugh, Senior Engi
neer, says:
"I think co-eda nro of tho very host 
sort there is, especially tho ones wo 
have at Carnegie, but they aro too apt 
to form cliques, too apt to judgo by 
money standards. In this respect, I 
do not think they aro ready for soror
ities, because they have not roallzod 
that grouping by fraternity is not be
ing broad-mlndod."
Jeddiyi Slye, Junior Enginoor, says 
"There is but ono olomont I dlsllke In our co-eds. That is a idlghtly 
"catty atmosphero among tho soror
ity girls in particular. In ovory other 
respect they aro cheorful and good 
scouts."
Don Gardner, Sclonco Junior, thinks 
"that our co-eds aro tho finest exam
ples of young women to bo found. My 
opinion Is of the very best.
Dr. Marks says:
"Tech Co-eds are, as a group, fine 
examples of young womanhood, phys
ically, morally and mentally.
AMERICAN COUNCIL OFFERS
EUROPEAN SCHOLARSHIPS
Twenty scholarships at universities 
in France, covering tuition, board andlodging, are offered for 1924-25 by the 
American Council on Education to 
qualified graduates of^ American col
leges and technical schools. Scholar
ships include electrical engineering, 
chemistry and physics. Further infor
mation can be secured from Dean Tarbell, Secretary of the Committee on 
Scholarships.
Dick Schmidt, Senior in Industries, 
has no complaints to make of the 
girls, unless it is that they study too 
much.
"They are a bunch of good sports, 
he says. There is nothing wrong 
with any,of them, and there is a great 
deal of good "wife material in the 
bunch.
CHANGE MADE IN SCHEDULE
OF HISTORICAL RECITALS
Tho dates of the first two of the 
series of Historical recitals to bo 
given by students of tlio Music De
partment and announced! in tho last 
issue of The Tartan have been set 
ahead. The series will bo given on 
tho following dates:
MARCH 2, 1!)24,
Music of tho Seventeenth Century.
MARCH 9, 1924,
Musio of tho Ago of Bach and 
Handel.
MARCH 16, 1924,
Music of the Classical Period.
MARCH 30. 1924 
Music of the Romantic Period.
APRIL 6, 1924,
Tho Music of the Later Nineteen 
Century.
The recitals wil be given In the 
Theater in the College of Fine Arts, 
on the abovo Sunday evenings at 
eight-thirty! oclock.
NOVEL SETTING FOR 
NEXT DRAMAT PLAY
Performance of Pel'eas and 
Melisande Will Begin 
Tomorrow, Feb. 20
When the curtain rises on tho first 
performance of Pollens and Mollsaude 
tomorrow ovoning in the Arts School 
theater, certain innovations will bo 
noticeable in tho way* of settings and 
costumes.
Mr. Wyckoff, Art Director and Mr. 
Arvld Crandall, who has charge of tho 
lighting have prepared a now typo of 
projection. Instead of changing tho 
sets at the many times callod for, pic 
tures will be thrown upon a translu
cent scroon back stage.
These plcturos or scenes thus pro
jected aro planned to express tho ac
tions and tho psychological stutea of 
tho characters.
Tho costumes will carry out thin 
sumo Idoa of oxprosslonism, in that 
tho colors of tho costumes will ropresent motlvos of tho characters.
The production of tho play will bo 
accompanied by music arrangod from 
Debussys opera, Pllloas and Mollsaudo. Tickets for any porfonnanco 
may bo obtained now in tho main of
fice of Arts School.
Student night will be noxc S'aturday 
night.
THE HIEROGLYPHIC DITTY
Plebes to Hold Banquet 
Next Saturday Night
Final Ticket Sale is Now 
Under Way on Campus
Max Stevenson, Industries Senior, 
says:
Tech Co-eds are all fine and would 
all make good wives. I have no crit
icism to offer.
Tho Plobo doss will hold its annual 
banquet at tho Schonloy Ilotol on Feb
ruary 23 at six-thirty P. M. Although 
the commlttoo refused to,divulge its 
entertainment program It promlsofi to 
furnish some very snappy amusement 
by members of tho class and by im
ported talent. Tho music will bo sup
plied by tho Colloglato Imps,
Tho salo of tickets is now going on. 
Tickets may bo procured from tho 
committee In the Arts School or from 
tho section loaders In Science and In
dustries. They are three dollars each. 
Those holding preliminary tickets 
may secure final tickets by presenting 
the prelims together with two dollars 
to the salesman.
The committee under Stewart 
Brown of Arts and Leonard Flowers 
of Science and Industries has worked 
hard to assure the success of the 
banquet and the advance sale of pre
liminary tickets Indicates that their 
efforts will be well rewarded.
CHI OMEGA SCHOLARSHIP
AWARDED M. M. C. C. STUDENT
Edw. Jones, Chemical Sophomore, 
thinks:
"They are too independent, but that 
is a good fault; otherwise, they are 
a pretty good bunch as a whole.
Red Van Atta, Engineer, thinks 
(Continued on Page Four.)
I LOVE AN ENGINEER. DO YOU?
Miss Blanche Humphrey, a Marga
ret Morrison student, has been award
ed a 100 scholarship granted by the 
local alumni chapter of Chi Omega 
National Sorority.
Miss Humphrey is the first Car
negie student to win the Chi Omega 
Scholarship, which will hereafter be 
offered annually to a Senior in the De
partment of Social Work. Miss Hum
phrey will be graduated in June with 
a B. S. degree in Social Work.
Knickers, Coupled With Policemans Blush, Knock
Squirrel Hill Cold As Co-eds Accept Decree
Like conquering Amazons of old five 
knickered young women took by 
storm that vast metropolis, that throb
bing center of trade, Squirrel Hill. 
The busy human center became par
alyzed at the approach of the inva
ders, and the traffic became dazed, if 
not knocked for a holdup. The girls 
meandered along the crowded thor
oughfares, making their way with dif
ficulty owing to the fact that there | 
were a good many dead cats from cu-! 
riosity in their path.
Is them New Yorkers, little Ikey j 
whispered.
Naw, theyre advertisin for the j 
Nixon, responded a lean lank man,' 
as he spat knowingly at a crack In the 
sidewalk.
Meantime the girls had decided to
cross the street, never thinking what 
tho dire results of such an act would 
be. Their Intentions were to make 
the usual halr-ralslng leaps necessary 
In crossing Forbes at Murray, but 
their appearance on the open highway 
had an unusual effect, especially on 
the traffic policeman. If SH reacLlon 
was especially peculiar. He was gaz
ing in the wrong direction of course, 
which is to say, he was watching Mur
ray and forgetting Forbes, but he 
turned around in time to see our hero
ines.
He took one >.ook at the feminine 
boys. Then he blushed,.and took an
other look. The succeeding blush 
spread to his ears, and to the top of 
his forehead, so that the peak of his 
cap cast a rosy reflection. He leaned 
weakly against the side of his cage.
then slipp/id to tho ground. An ambu
lance was hastily summoned and the 
unfortunate officer was carried away, 
(At eight oclock this morning he had 
not yet recovered consciousness.)
For cryln' out loud, ono co ed an* 
nouriced elegantly all we're allowed 
to do Is hike, Wo can't have no dates 
nor nothin' and when we do hike, peo
ple have to go and faint. There's only 
one thing to do girls, and that is, beat 
it back to dear old Schenley Park. 
Wont it be grand when the quaran
tines lifted and well have our gen
tle heroes back?
Lets send the poor man flowers, 
suggested a gentler one.
Flowers yer eye. We gave him a 
treat and he didn't appreciate it. Let 
him stay dead. He's better off, I 
think. Come on home girls.
THISTLE BILLS MUST BE
BE PAID IMMEDIATELY
All classes, clubs, fraternities, dor
mitories, or organizations of any kind 
who wish to seo their pictures und 
writeups in this year's Thistle had 
better get out their checkbooks and 
send in their chock immediately.
.Unpaid bills seriously hamper the 
Thistle Boards work. All organiza
tions should co-operate with the board 
by paying their accounts.
. Make checks payable to M. D. Ivallfelz, treasurer and mail to 4S07 Baum 
BlvdL or Box 1G5, C. I. T. postofflco.
SOPH HOP SET FOR 
SCHENLEY /WAR. 28
Harmans Orchestra is to Pro
vide Music for Class 
Function
Tho Sophomore Hop has been def
initely sot for March 2St.lv at tho 
Schenley. Harmans Orchestra, the 
same which made such an unreserv
edly favorable impression at the Jun
ior Prom, is to provide the music.
The Hop will bo absolutely inform
al. Tickets will probably sell for $3.
The contest between tho. Sophomoro 
Hop and tho Arts Ball for tho 2Sth 
dato was automatically settled by tho 
offer of Mr. T. W. Stevens to give up 
tho Drama Departments prior claim 
to March 21st in order that tho Arts 
Ball might be hold that night. The 
following wook-oiul was thus loft froo 
for tho Hop.
Tho stimulating strains of Davo 
Harmans musicians aro not to bo tho 
only ploasuro of tlio Hop. Sovoral 
of tho young geniuses of tho Drama 
Department aro conniving to koop tho 
crowd in joyous mood during tho In
termission. Tlielr act is oxpoctod to 
smack littlo of Ibwon and loss of 
Shalcospearo.
Tho ongagomont of tho Williamsport 
orchestra assuroa suporlatlvoly lino 
music. Tho crowd at tho Junior 
Prom was enthusiastic In its applauso 
und Insistent in its domand for en
cores. Tho unusual stunts and songs 
wore onormoualy enjoyed, and tho mu
sic Itsolf was tho kind that mukos 
dancing a tlroloss ploasuro.
Tho good work of tho commlttoo 
dosorvos recognition. The names of 
tho mombors follow:
Sclonco-Paul Dowron, chairman; 
Joseph Raddln.
Margaret MorrisonLouisa Benson; 
Madeline Dale.
ArtsEarl Whoolor, Don Morrison.
Industries-Elvort ThoniaB, CJoorgo 
Murphy.
STUDENT DR I'VE 
BEGINS TODAYFOUR SPEAKERS
Meal Tickets Will be Sold by 
Teknon Club Members 
Drive Lasts All Week 
Faculty Favors Drive
DO YOUR PART NOW
iNfR-FRAT COUNCIL 
CHANGES ITS NAMi:
At its mooting on Saturday, Feb
ruary l), Intorfrutornlty Council defi
nitely changed! Its name to tho Un
dergraduate Interrratornlty Council 
ol! lOarnogln Institute of Technology.
Buddy OVorond made an appeal to 
the fruternltios to take' care ol' the 
men who are playing for tho basket 
ball championship of tho, W. P. I. A. 
L,, to be played In tho now gym. 
The games wit bo played between 
March 8 andl 27.
A report wus made on the progross 
of tho IntGrfratornity danco. Tho 
danco will probably bo hold In the 
Hotel Schonloy Ball Room. An air 
tondjanco of at least two hundred 
couples Is necessary to Insure its 
success. No definite action has been 
taken.
It was denied that tho first Tues
day of each month wil bo tho time 
for tho social gathering of the counolal at ono of tho fraternities. They 
will be visited In alphabetical order. 
The first meeting wil be held in 
March at the Arcacia House.
Disscuslon was hold on a pledge 
smoker to be given next fall. It was 
proposed that there be a committee 
of pledges and) an advisory commit
tee from the Interfraternity Council. 
The plan was accepted.
A report on scholarship was made 
in which it was stated that fratern
ity scholarship had dropped.
Several recommendations were put 
up for consideration, namely: that
Dean Tarbell should send out midsemester reports to the fraternities; 
that fraternities should not overbur
den members with activities; and 
that the fraternities should keep up 
their scholastic standing) or drop 
their votes In the Interfraternlty 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Y. W. C. A. Meeting in M. M. 
Under Freshman Auspices
Tho Freshman class will have full 
charge of the Y. W. 0, A. mooting 
to bo hold In the Margaret Morrison 
recreation hall, Wednesday.
Tho program will Include special 
musical number rendered by Mins 
Oraco Broderick and Miss Im old a 
iilckonberger, Freshman students of 
tho College of Fine Arts.
Ambition, has been chosen us the 
topic of the meeting and Miss Mc
Bride, Freshman advisor of Margaret 
Morrison, will talk on this subject.
All Freshman are asked to make a 
special effort to attend this meeting 
and display the true spirit of the 
Class of '27.
Today Carnegie Tech goes down as 
a contributor to the Student Relief 
Drive Fund. But lot mo ask; aro \ve> 
going to give our share and then some 
to the worthy deed? Is each one of 
us going to come across with tho real 
Christian spirit of giving until it 
hurts? Wo surely will do our share.
Students will bo postod at various 
places around the campus with strips 
of tickets. Each ticket will be worth 
a dime and fifty cents is the minimum, 
amount asked. We want to sell a 
Milo a Day of tickets, because each 
ticket moans ono meal to a student.
What does your lunch price aver
age? Fifty cents? Forty? Thirty? 
Well, whatever it averages, try and 
cut the cost In half and contribute 
the difference to this fund. At that, 
you will he fed almost twice as much 
for your money, and living far abovo 
tho average student In Europe.-' Try 
this for a porlod of ono weok, and 
soo if you dont fool bottor for It.
Indianapolis Convention reports aro 
all full of the need of help for these 
students. Dr. Keller of Switzerland, 
said tho boat thing we could do to 
savo Europe today was to help tho 
student. By so doing wo have a 
friend for tomorrow. Have you your 
friend ?
Just a quotation from a Yale man 
in Europe will sulllco to show some of 
tho conditions. "There are bot.woon 
(1,000 and 7,000 students in Hamburg. 
Whon wo l'omombor that most of 
(Continued' on Pago Tliroo.)
Plans Under Way for 
Annual Science Stag
Plebes Appoint Committee 
for Class Stunt
ID. G. Blutriiniei, president of thof 
l'inglneerlng-lmlustrles Freshman claw 
has appointed tho Freshman class 
stunt committee lor the 1021 
Science stag. Tlio eommlttoo Is com
posed ol' tho following men: J. Hol
loway, chairman; Mel'llhlnoy, McCIhv 
nlo and Boll.
Tho general committee for tho 
Science stag, composed of ID. It. Put 
ton, chairman; I**. W, Brommer, 1). 
A, Sehoorlco, .1. H. Whitman and F. 
l>. Rossini, met Sunday anil foi'nmInlod plans which will culminino Ju 
tlii- 102-1 Science stag.
Only students In the Engineering 
Collogo, menili orti of tho IflnglnoorTng-lhduslrlos Freshman olaSK, and 
members of the faculty of the Col lego 
/of Engineering '.ire eligible to attend 
this engineering frolic, Tickets for 
the affair will bo out about, March
1, and will be sold ony to those who 
are eligible to attend.
Class entertainment productions 
for this affair aro already1 being plan
ned and rehearsed. Each class 'in 
vlolng with tho other to produce tho 
best stunts. Tho most unique, in
teresting, and ontortalnlng stunt will 
receive a prize. Capable officials will 
bo engaged to act as judges in dis
tribution of tills and numerous priy.es 
which will bo award'ed. Rumor bus 
It that engineering faculty aro go
ing to produce a stunt for the stag
li this is true the would-be engi
neers had better watch their laurels.
The goneral committee is now en
gaged in planning a complete pro
gram for the stag. This will includo 
stu.nts, entertainment, speeches, food, 
and som.o other special features 
which will be announced later. Tho 
popularity contest which :s usually 
held in conjunction with the 3cienco 
stag will probably be staged again 
this year.
Poor Representation 
At Chapel is Deplored
There was no chapel last week on 
account of the scarlet fever han on 
social gatherings, but this Thursday it 
is Intended to hold chapel as usual. 
Of late a great decrease in the num
ber of students attending has been 
observed, much to the disappointment 
of! those in charge, who hail hoped 
to see a greater Interest shown by 
the student body.
Particular efforts havo been made 
to secure spoakors of prominence and 
to make each dispel a matter of great 
Interest to all. In pursuance of this 
policy there 1ms boon secured to 
sp*alc Thursday, Bishop Alexander 
Mann, who heads the Protestant Epis
copal diocese of the Pittsburgh dis
trict.
Mr. Davis, secretary of the Car
negie branch of the Y. M. C. A., is 
anxious to have everyone attend, es
pecially in view of the approaching 
Lenten season, and it is profoundly 
hoped that Thursday will see a wellfilied chapel.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the ALWSLSSSEL of Pittsburgh aw necond-claHHmattor.
II. V. SIMPSOrt..............
EDITO R-1N-CIII lilP...Schonloy 9143
BUSINESS MANAGER....Hiland 4011-.T
KENNETH ARNOLD....................................Schenley 189--Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS.....................................................AHHlHtailtManaging Editor
SAHA. MAE EVERETT.. 
MARK S. DOWNES 
H. H. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
...Schonloy 9220
W. WINNING ................
F. 1). ROSSINI...............
A. S. ANDREWS............
NEWS EDITORS.. Schonloy 9070 
.. Schonloy 9070 
.. Schonloy 9211
A. E. KROGH..................
B. 0. FRAZIER..............
......................................Schonloy 1)070Alumni Editor
.....................................Schonloy 9X43Athletic Editor
R. W. SLEATH ............
W. K. JEFFREY............
3*1. P. CO USE, JR...........
... Photographer 
.Exchange Editor 
............Art Editor
W. M. GIBSON.......................................Schonloy 9211Advertising Manager
listello Baribal di 
Kll'/.abotb Jane Gordon 
Wilma Stiner 
Carol Foigbt 
Mai garet McFall 
Koiionmry MeCanibrldgo 
K. L. Kennedy
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Nora Willets 
Alinee i'baro 
N. C. Weser 
V. 13. Smith 
L. II. i larris 
E. G. Johnson 
K. Fulmer 
A. F. Carson
J, M, Goss 
F, L. Wagner 
F. M. McClelland 
M. W, Gay 
E. E. Kerns 
C. A. Du n d nu 1st 
R. L. Loppor 
J. N. Conley
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moskovit/,, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. ^androck, A. Grodner, A. 
Jarbrow, A. Perroton, Lee C. Osborne.
The Ed I tor-i n-Chlef is responsible for the policy of tills paper; tbo 
Managing Editor for tbo make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All news items must be in tbo student 
pout oillce before 4:80 Thursday.
Tartan OlllcoRoom G-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDally 12:30-
1:20._______________________________________________________________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Holen Corro G. E. Jacoby T. Christoff J. F. HarrisE. C. Plummer
WHATS WRONG WITH ACTIVITIES?
Why is it we cannot get more men out for activities?
Quite a pointed question, and yet, according to actual conditions, 
it is not a question but a conundrum.
That there is a poverty ol! men, who not only arc unwilling to 
try-out for tho various jobs, but are even unwilling1 to hold them, is 
a fact well-known to the active man about campus.
It is important for a student holding a top-positioii in activities 
to receive training for his job. The best possible training procura
ble is a good hard fight for it through the media ol! still: competition 
hy a large number ol! aspirants for that job. Such is one of the many 
needs for Snore men to come out for nativities.
Tho question has boon asked. Mere are a few replies:
One man says the code ol eligibility is too severe, and along this 
line tho studies aro too hard. Directly from this arises the realization 
that many who do enter activities aro compelled to drop them be
cause of ineligibility. Even though one does manage to keep his 
head abovo water, his studies will more than likely suffer so much 
that ho might bo asked to leave school. ..Therein is a real fearstu
dents boro never can toll what their fate from semester to semester 
will bofor fear of being dropped, they aro actually afraid to take 
a ohanco.
Along this line it is claimed that eertain professors give no lee
way to men who are over burdened with activities; that they do not 
appreciate his unselfish motive in giving his time for the good of 
Carnegie. In some departments sueli students aro actually discour
aged in their efforts, which phaso is dishoartening to one with a con
scientious desire to aid his Alma Mater.
There is also the cry that those who give their time to activities 
do not receive sufficient recognition. The fact that they hold import
ant jobs is taken as a more or less matter ol! fact. They aro not ap
preciated. Man is a vain creature. While he has no desire to bo 
gushed over ho does desire recognition and appreciation.
Another claims that there are too many social activities; that 
thoro is being developed at Carnegie Tooh a male Mapper, whoso 
solo desire in not service to school, but satisfaction of a selllsh desire 
to wbile-away his spare time at ton dances, and so forth, Tho ques
tion arises: Ifl this tnio? SI ill, it is asked, would these frequenters 
ol! tea dances, >f there wore no tea dances, divert this time so spent to 
activities? It is doubted if they would their innate make-up indi
cates such a scope of usefulness (?) and as such they will ever be 
if their desires cannot be illlod here they will go where they can bo 
filled. Still Ibis might be one of tho causes.
Politics is stated as another cause. There is a group of men on 
tbo campus who claim, and make no bones about it either, that they 
do not have a chance because of a lack of the necessary pull.
Where is the point system? This system would prevent one man 
holding four or five jobs to the exclusion of many others who would 
like an opportunity.
All of the abovo can bo taken as a mirror, reflecting student 
opinions.
Take your choice; but, by all means, let us have a rejuvenated 
interest in activities!
The following article on "The Stand 
of the College Press" taken from the 
Christian Science Monitor of May 20, 
1923, gives college papers a decidedly 
high rating.
An encouraging sign of the times is 
tbo apparent determination of those 
who direct tho policies of the journals 
published in the colleges of the United 
Stiiteu to.maintain tlio highest pos
sible standard In their nows and edi
torial pagos. It 1 a convincing de
nial of the claim that the demand of 
educated people, even those of the 
younger generation, is for sensation
alism and scandal. Tho readers of 
the yellow journals, so called, aro not, 
generally speaking, those who give 
serious thought to the solution of 
ovoryday problems. In the homes, 
and In tho schools and colleges tho 
search Is for tho encouragement and 
promise which can bo found in those 
newspapers and magazines which do 
not appeal to prejudice or seek to cre
ate and then to satisfy an Inordinate 
dosire for tlio forbidden and the unde
sirable.
"At a recent session of the Inter
collegiate Press Club of Indiana, tho 
delegates not only indorsod the pol
icy of tho college newspapers In their 
stand for clean journalism, but de
manded that tho larger and more Im
portant press/ If It desired the sup
port of the schools and colleges, ad
here to tho name high standard. It 
was pointed out that educators are 
coming more and inore to depend up
on newspapers for use in the class
rooms, and that the papers available 
were those which adhered strictly to 
clean and constructive policies. It 
was observed that 'newspapers need
ed to gbt away from the printing of 
criminal and other demoralizing news 
items if they expect to talco their 
proper place in the educational field.
"The students in Indiana schpols 
and colleges are not the first, by any 
means, who have declared their de
termination to support a clean and 
progressive press. Eastern and oth
er colleges throughout the country 
have taken their place in the line. 
Tile movement is symptomatic, be
cause it indicates that awakening, no
ticeable in tho homes, everywhere, as 
well as in those public institutions 
whore it is the desire to inculcate the 
habit as well as to teach tho processes 
of right thinking, to tho necessity o 
discouraging the reading and con
templation of destructivo and sugges
tive matter. Long ago It was realized 
that it was tho height of folly to sow 
tho soods of weeds aad taros in a, 
field whore it is desired to produce 
wheat and corn.
Evaporation and Heat 
Transfer DiscussedHOOT MON
By Professor W. L. Badger 
of Michigan
A discussion of evaporation prob-; 
lerns and types of evaporators best 
suited for various purposes was given 
Thursday night by Professor W. L. 
Badger, of Michigan University, be
fore an audience of chemical engi
neers, scientists, and students.
According to Professor Badger, the 
most important single factor in the 
design of an evaporator, a heater, or 
any of tho many pieces of equipment] 
used in the chemical industries, is it I 
rate of heat transfer. It is gradually 1 
being recognized, he said, that less is | 
known about heat transfer than about 
almost any other factor in engineer
ing design; and yet, after strength 
of materials, lie pointed out, there is 
probably no more important factor.
IIo also described some of the un
usual evaporators developed, such as 
an evaporator in which the liquid 
comes in contact with nothing but 
duriron and another in which the 
liquid is handled and evaporated ex
clusively in pyrex glass or chemical 
stoneware.
Professor Badgers lecture was the 
second of a series of five on chemical 
engineering problems arranged under 
tho joint auspices of Carnegie and the 
Chemical Equipment Association, for 
the special benefit of Pittsburgh indus
tries. The next in the series will be 
given Friday evening, March 7, by A. 
E. Marshall of Baltimore, Md. The 
subject will be "Mechanical Methods 
of Handling Chemical Plant Mate
rials.
"What Is Student Opinion? clam
ors the press and we answer, 
"There ain't none." Certainly every
one has beliefs with regard to every
thing from Tea Dome to Scarlet 
Fever and opinions are handed out 
with the most reckless disregard fori 
basic facts or certain consequences. 
SOPH-PLEBE CONTESTS FOUNDRYMEN TO VISIT 
TO FOLLOW BANQUETS CARNEGIE IN APRIL
Any fool can express an opinion, is
our contribution, an obvious and in
convertible fact. Arent we doing 
as much right now? Q. E. D.
CAN YOU SING THE PRAISES?
FORMER FOOTBALL 
STAR ADVANCING
I LOVE AN ENGINEER. DO YOU?
EXTRA LINKS
I kissed her In tho Packard 
On a dizzy, speeding lark,
But ubo said, "Thats not tho way dear 
Turn up this road and park.
I kissed hor on her scarlet lips,
Hor broath was rich with wine;
Slio told mo whore she got the stuff, 
And now tho collars mino,
1 klsBod lier at Ilio Junior Prom 
In tho room rosorvod for ladies;
But a ohaporon discovered us
May she malto good fuol for Hados!
I neither kissed hor on Ilio porch, 
Nor in tho vestbulo,
Nor on tho dizzy Joy rido,
But on tho lips, you fool!
Mink.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20
Pollens and Mclisande.................................................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 21
Pollens and Mclisande.......:........................................S:15, Arts Theater
Gambol of the Guilds.............................................................9 :00, Union
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 22
Washingtons Birthday........................................................ No Classes
Pelleas and Meiisande................................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Basket BallM. M. CJ. C. versus Pitt.........................1:00, Trees Gym
Freshman Banquet......................................................... 6 :30, Schenley
Pelleas and Meiisande (Students Night).................8:15, Arts Theater
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 25 
Roses ol! Mercatel.....................................................8:15; Arts Theater
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSDURGH 
An orgnnlzntlon of Pitt nnd 
Tech ntudonto for nodal nnd rollulouo fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evonlng, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 fORBES STREET
SCRAPS O PLAID
By Hal & Mac.
Dofionnit! This old campus sure Is 
a. miserable place without those 
Union danooa, tho sohodiilod banket 
bail games in tlio now gym and tbo 
other functions 'forbidden because of 
tho "red plague, as someone lias 
dubbed It.
The recent abundance of snow, 
however, has served to relieve the 
monotony a hit particularly among 
the feminine element. Weve noted 
several saow-men molded by boyish 
looking individuals in knickers, and 
bashfully recall again that this is 
Leap Year. 
And then come to think about it a 
snowball sailed out at us from one 
of the windows in the Woodlawn 
dorms the other day. Weve been 
rather cautious since then. This 
cave man stuff in the open season 
makes us feel as timid as a rabbit 
far from the old briar patch.
After watching from the reviewing 
stand for ilie last week or so, wo 
dont find so many missing faces. Its 
tough to lose out just when the best 
part of tho school yoar is coming 
on. Spring wltli Its "young mans 
fancies" and our annual Campus 
Week andandwell, lots moro 
things which leave memories deepcut, In tho heurts of all of us.
Just a reminder, tbo chapel serv
ices will be resumed again on Thurs
day and a prominent clergyman is to 
deliver a brief talk. Those talks are 
always worth-while no why not got 
the bonotlt from them. Wo know 
you are pretty busy but Instead of 
loaflxii: in some club room as Is usual
ly tbo case dudng the dinner hour 
just wander over to tho Little Thea
ter on Thursday and enjoys an in
spirational half hour.
The mail carrier brought us only 
one valentine the other day. but we 
worent disappointed. In fact wo 
were tickled to death to think that, 
someone thought enough of us to 
send us that one. Anyone that didnt 
get aoy ?
Series of Addresses of Special 
Interest to Students.
Asbury Methodist 
Episcopal Church
BURT DAVID EVANS, D.D.
Sunday morning at 11 oclock 
Building a Working Faith." 
The Spiritual Faculty, The Quest 
of God, Man and the Cosmos, 
Modern Science and the Origin 
of Life, The Garden of Eden.
Sunday evening at S oclock 
The Re-Discovery of Jesus, The 
Teaching of Jesus, Jesus and 
Spiritual Religion, The Educa
tion of Jesus, Jesus and Radi
calism.
Ex-Half-Back Superintendent 
of Branch Factory of 
Aviation Corp
In the fall of 1913 Meridan, Conn., 
entered one of hor boys on tho roll 
of Cnrnegio Tech. Coming from Monson Academy, Monson, Mass., Fred R. 
Oillnger enrolled in the Machinery 
Production Course in Industries 
School and graduated with the class 
of 1016.
Mr. Oillnger, who answered to the 
name of Happy Fritz, was a star on 
the '14, '15 and 16 football teams 
where lie played/ fullback. I-Ie also 
won his letter playing second base on 
tho baseball loams of the same years.
Because of his high scholastic at
tainments, Mr. Oillnger was elected to 
the Alpha Tau Honorary Fraternity. 
Ho was also an active member in tho 
Tech Mechanics Club.
Aftor graduation, ho entered the 
Aviation 'Sorvlco 'wheiro lie remained 
during tho World War. Aftor the war 
lie Identified himself with Abenrotb 
Brothora of Port Chestor, N. Y., with 
whom ho is still connocted in tlio ca
pacity of superintendent of a branch 
factory.
Those who know Ollingor say that 
Happy Frit/, was just tho name for one 
so jolly and full of fun. What might 
bo considered a hotter trait was tho 
fact that It was almost impossible to 
stump him. We always had an ans
wer ready.
A pleasing personality such as this
J. Havey Robinsonsupported by 
our local Economics Department-rdlvides thinking into four classes of 
which the most prevalent, he styles 
as reverie. Reverie, or day-dreaming, plagues us continually, follows 
us while awake or asleep until we 
can finally no longer differentiate be
tween it and creative thinking any
more than we can tell an Arts from 
an Industries man by the kind of 
tobacco he chews. We are swayed 
by judgments we never formed and 
it is all woven around and enthralled 
about our mighty self, tho supreme 
ego.
Little words of wisdom,
Little trains of thought 
Harvey says its reverie 
And amounts to nought.
I am a hero, unparalled,
My spirit is never quelled,
Whats eer goes on, I am he 
Who conquers mountains, land and 
sea.
I judge the right, when I do wrong 
My conscience pricks with sharp 
ened prong.
I am weak or I am strong 
All in reverie.
An excellent criteria of student 
opinion may be found in the Outcome 
of the vote on the Bole Peace Plan 
which was favorably received by 
threo-fourtlis of the voters. Yet what 
does it mean? The majority of the 
students had no definate knowledge 
of the text of the plan and many 
who accorded it their entire approv
al, regard the League of Nations 
with the most intense antagonismtWo almost identical projects.
Similarly, about school we find 
many offices filled by incompetent 
men who have a drag, whereas the 
deserving man has to stand aside 
and either, quit or proceed in a half
hearted fashion. And then some 
raise a cry asking why more men 
dont go out for activities! Give 
them a chance, a square deal, and 
discard this intense rivalry for im
portant positions.
Some men are not appreciated un
til theyre dead. is a pet phraso of 
many. Surely, only this can explain 
the outcome of many of our campus 
elections.
coupled with honesty and industriousnosH is sure to put a graduate in the 
front ranks. Although Oillnger has 
been out in the Industrial World but 
a short time, lie is rapidly forging 
ahead.
An Englishman came to the vicar, 
who was also a surrogate and asked 
wearily: Are you sure it was a mar
riage llcenso you gave me a year 
ago?"
The vicar assured him it was.
"Well," ho said, I have led a dogs 
life over since."
Black and Magenta.
THE STUDENT COUNCIL
What It is and of Whom It Consists
Compliments
or
Skibo Inn
From time to tlmo we will run an explanation of the different organiza
tions on the campus for tho benefit of those who do not know what the 
organizations are.
The following explains the organization and membership of the Student Council:
ORGANIZATION
The Student Council Is composed of twenty-two representatives and 
three non-voting members, Including the President of the Student Council, 
five representatives from Margaret Morrison, five from Arts, four from 
Science, four from Industries, one from the Mens Athletic Association, one
from the Womens Athletic Association, and three non-voting assistant sec
retaries from the Secretarial course in Margaret Morrison.
MEMBERSHIP
PresidentT. N. Griggs, 5418 Baum Boulevard...............................Schenley 2285
Vice PresidentTeasdale Barney, 5549 Forbes Street........................Hazel 3320
SecretaryAdah Borgerdlng, 27 Dinsmore Avenue.................Walnut 0631-W
Treasure!'H. Dykeman, 624 Clyde Street.......................................Schenley 9401
ARTS
President of SenateTeasdale Barney, 5549 Forbes Street................Hazel 3320
Senior ClassM. Arthur Brace, 4921 Forbes Street........................Schenley 0569
Vice President SenateHelen B. Johnson, 4916 Forbes Street..Schenley 9079
Senate RepresentativeAlfred D. Reid, Darlington Apts.............Schenley 3944.
Senate TreasurerV. S. Mollenauer, 5812 Bartlett Street..................Hazel 9398
ENGINEERING
President of SenateJames Robertson, 624 Clyde Street............Schenley 9401
Senior PresidentC. N. Hollingsworth, 802 E. Hutchison................Hiland 1820
Senior RepresentativeEllis Robertson, 5814 Forbes Street............Hazel 9422
Senate TreasurerMilo Matter, 4921 Forbes Street.......................Schenley 1659
INDUSTRIES
President of SenateF. M. Gore, 630 Clyde Street.........................Schenley 9189
j Senior PresidentSam E. Dyke, 624 Clyde Street.........................Schenley 9401
I Senate RepresentativeH. E. Dykeman, 624 Clyde Street..........Schenley 9401
Senate TreasurerM. Kalfelz, 4807 Baum Boulevard....................Schenley 9285
MARGARET MORRISON
President of SenateBlair Jessop, 4321 Saline Avenue......................Hazel 2748
i Senior PresidentFrances McClymonds, 502 Hays Street............Franklin 0302
j Senior RepresentativeAdah S. Borgerdlng, 27 Dinsmore Ave., Walnut 0637-W
Senate TreasurerBernice Rentz, 5150 Forbes Street..................Schenley 9204
MENS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
; RepresentativeO. B. Newman, 4600 Forbes Street.
GIRLS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION 
! PresidentMary Heilig, 5810 Murrayhill Avenue........... Montrose 5163
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus.....................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BO^ES 
FOR RENT
NEW FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
National Fraternities.
Acacia080 Clyde ....................................................................Schonley 9183
Alpha Tau Omoga254 Bollotlold..........................................Schenley 9102
Beta Sigma Kho tl lfi Wigbtman.........................................Schenley 11376
Beta Tliota PI6649 Forbes..........................................................Ilazol 3320
Delta Tau Delta1902 Forbes................................................Schenley 9231
Delta Upsilon(5224 Liberty.......................................................Hiland 0S5S
Kappa Sigma624 Clyde.........................................................Schenley 9101
PI Kappa Alpha1S07 Baum..................................................Schenley 92S5
Sigma Alpha Epallon4915 Forbes......................................Schenley 9211
Sigma Nu1921 Forbes............................................................Schenley 0659
Tliota XI5017 Forbes............................................................Schenley 9113
Local Fraternities.
Delta Clil Rho. 140S Wigbtman St.....................
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro...................................
Delta Phi Delta150 North Craig......................
Iota Sipma Delta5601 Wilkins..........................
Kappa Epsilon220 South Rebecca St...............
Sigma Epsilon Phi5S12 Bartlett.....................
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forbes.............................
...Hazel 457S-R 
....Hazel 9345 
.Schenley 4490 
,... .Hazel 9350
___Hilaud 90S0
------Hazel 939S
------Hazel 9422
The uncertainty of the Sophomore 
Banquet date has beCn reduced to 
some Wednesday or Friday about the 
middle of March. As soon as the com
mittee can- make arrangements for 
any of the feasible dates, announce
ment will be made.
Class officers are now working on 
plans to further the idea of a SophPlebe contest advanced by the Stu
dent Council. The Freshmen intend 
to have their banquet this Saturday. 
Consequently it will be impossible to 
hold a contest in time to have the 
officers of the losing class attend the 
banquet of the victors.
The struggle will probably take 
place in the spring when the sod of 
the athletic field will be in condition 
to soften the bumps incident to such 
an imbroglio. Some other penalty 
then forced attendance of the officers 
at the opponents banquet will be in
flicted upon the vanquished.
Coach: Why didnt you stop that
man from making that 30-yard run?
Sub: It took all my strength to get 
out of his way.Geneva College.
A hectic meeting at the Newman 
Club last Wednesday night effected 
two reforms. Hereafter, basket ball 
games are to be absolutely restricted 
to the period between 7:30 and 9:30, 
and from 9:30 to 11:00 a three-piece 
orchestra is to provide music for 
dancing.
The changed program goes into ef
fect tomorrow night. The new reg
ulations are to be enforced to the let
ter. They give assurance of more at
tractive Wednesday evenings.
He (in front of parents)Here son, 
take this quarter and go see the 
Shiek.
ButtermilkIf its all the same to 
you, Id just as soon stay here and 
watch you and sister, after mamma 
and papa goes to bed.Cento.
THE HIEROGLYPHIC DITTY
POLITICIAN TO FRIEND WIFE
P."Well, dearie, I was elected. 
W.Honestly?
P.Well, what difference does 
that make?
cTWens Style Shop |
Announces
February Sale of All Mens Furnishings |
25% TO 35% REDUCTIONS 
A new Spring line of bow and four-in-hand ties has just been received 
and will be sold at the unusually low introductory price of one dollar.
CONNORS & CONWAY f
3709 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
A Class Distinction
The Hinge-Cap is the insignia of Williams 
Shaving Cream and of Williams only. 
Youll notice three things about Williams 
every time you shave. 1. Williams lather 
is heavier and holds the moisture in against 
the beard. Quicker and more thorough 
softening takes place. 2. "Williams lather lubri
cates your skin  your razor actually seems to 
glide the hairs off. 3. Williams lather leaves 
the skin in marvelously fine condition. No matter 
how frequently you shave, your face stays cool, 
smooth and comfortable.
Youll enjoy every shave with Williams. It is 
a pure, natural-white cream without any artificial 
coloring whatsoever.
The Williams HingeCap is "on even when 
its off You cant 
lose it, and the tube 
hangs up!
If
I
'mi
w
T4!&aI
Ia
p
1
mVA'm
si'!y
II
p,
H
gI
iI
I
ft
i'/r
Ski bioI 
bnoinioo Cariir
S what every ambitious senior is 
thinking about at the present 
time. Life insurance is one of the 
best, one of the most desirable, and 
one of the most satisfactory as a 
permanent calling.
In assets and volume of business, 
life insurance is one of the three 
leading businesses of this country, 
yet the field is comparatively under
developed. Only 7 per cent of the 
economic value of human life in the 
United States is covered by insurance.This gives an idea of the big field 
still to be worked, especially business 
insurance for firms and corporations.
As to remuneration: Reports of 
college graduates who have entered 
business indicate that life insurance is 
at the very top as a source of income. 
Now is the time for you to consider 
what you are going to do after gradu
ation. If you are ambitious and will
ing to work hard and are interested to 
know about life insurance, address
Agency Department
jcoA .univeurA salteumM
of Boston. Massachusetts
Sixty-one years in business. Now insuring One Billion Seven 
Hundred Million Dollars in policies on 3,350,000 lives

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Skibo iInkEIbCS&
BASEBALL SCHEDULE IS 
APPROVED BY COUNCIL
The varsity baseball schedule for 
the coming season has been approved 
by the Athletic Council and is as fol
lows:
April 17-18-West Virginia Univer
sity, away.
April 24Bucknell, here.
May 1Pitt, away.
May 2Juniata, here.
May 5Grove City1, here.
May 8Juniata, away.
May 9Delaware, away.
May 10Gettysburg, away.
May 15Pitt, here.
May 16St. Bonaventure, here.
May 20Pitt, away.
May 22Grove City, away.
May 29Bethany, here.
BAND PRACTICE TO BE
HELD NEXT THURSDAY
All members of the band are re
quested to be present at practice to 
be held Thursday evening, February 
21, in the Union. The ban on meet
ings, due to scarlet fever, should be 
lifted and it is hoped that every mem
ber will be present.
CARNEGIE GROWING
MORE COSMOPOLITAN
(Continued From Page One.) 
tries are represented, including Eng
land, Germany, Japan, India, Scotland, 
Ireland, Canada, Switzerland, Chile, 
Holland, Greece, Serbia,. Africa, Aus
tralia, Mexico, Syria, Norway, Egypt, 
Iceland and the Philippine Islands.
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason
able prices on catling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
INDUSTRE
2$e master
TARTAN GIRLS TO 
MEET PITT CO-EDS
Games to be Played at Trees 
Gym Next Saturday at 
One Oclock
The rumor about girls basket ball 
has proved true. The Carnegie girls 
class teams are scheduled to meet the 
Pitt girls class teams. Tho four 
games will be played in Trees Gym on 
February 23, starting at 1 oclock. The 
games will be open to all spectators 
and are expected to be very exciting; 
each class team is determined to win 
from Pitt.
The girls have been having hard 
practices during the last week, and 
by the end of this week expect to be 
in good condition to meet and defeat 
the Pantherettes.
The idea of playing class games 
with outside schools was adopted af
ter the decision was made to do away 
with varsity basket ball. This plan 
has been tried in some of our west
ern colleges and has proven very suc
cessful. Arrangements are being car
ried out for games with the Pennsyl
vania College for Women, but so far 
no definite settlement has been made.
The regular inter-class games will 
begin February 25 in the Field House. 
Their first game will be a hotly con
tested one between the Sophomores 
and the Freshmen. The Plebes are 
determined to get even with the Sophs 
for enforcing so many cruel regula
tions.
The other games scheduled for next 
week are Junior vs. Senior, February 
2G and Arts vs. Freshmen, February 
28. Both of these games will be excit
ing for the Juniors desire to win the 
cup again this year, and the Plebes 
are anxious to show that they can 
hold up their end when it comes to 
athletics.
There will he no charge for admis
sion, so the field house should be 
crowded. If you havent -any special 
friend playing, come and root for your 
own class or the one you are inter
ested in.
Damon
"Wlmt wns I lie name of that pencil 
Professor Williams was recom
mending this morning? 
Pythias
Eldorndomy boy, Eldorado! 
Just think of a fabled land of 
. case and happinesswhere no one 
flunkswhere pencils are the magic 
sticks of achievement. Then you 
can never forget It."
A. ( A universal custom
MitCr that benefits every-Fvcrv boIiyAids digestion, 
cieanses ,eet*1 
/ soothes the throat.
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Cliss, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
LThe place you have been look
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
a good thing to remember
Sealed in its Purity Package -<<i
THE^ "FLAVOR LASTS
Stretching Your 
Income
Only through careful, sys
tematic and efficient handling 
of your funds can you make 
the most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promot
ing the financial welfare of 
our customers and are ever 
ready to assist in the solu
tion of their financial prob
lems.
Your savings and checking 
accounts, even though small, 
are welcome here.
Mellon National Bank
DAVIES and HUGHES
MENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
60o000,000
POUNDS 
IN ONE 
TRANSACTION
The year 1922 was a vintage 
year for Burley tobaccothe 
Lest Kentucky ever grew. 
Favored all through the season 
with exceptional tobacco weather 
just enough warmth and not too 
much rainthe crop developed a 
body and character seldom 
before equaled.
Our recent 60-miUion-pound purLAST CHANCE FOR A GOLF TEAM 1
This article is addressed primarily to those students who are interested 
in golf and believe in it as a desirable collegiate sport. Not long ago, tho 
Athletic Council recognized golf as a minor sport a fid called for the names 
of men interested in trying out for the team. ONLY SIX NAMES HAVE 
BEEN SUBMITTED!
If this excellent sport is to receive no better support than that, a golC 
team for Carnegie Tech is absolutely out of the question, or this year at 
least.
With this in mind, will the men who are interested in tho sport hand 
their names to Graduate Manager Overeiul this week. If a satisfactory num
ber o persons do not signify their interest in the sport by the end oC this 
week, the Athletic Council will rescind its action, thus removing tho organ
ization of a golf team to some future year when more interest and enthusiasm 
is manifested among the students.
GOLFERS, THIS WEEK IS YOUR LAST CHANCE. WHAT ARE YOU 
GOING TO DO AJ30UT IT?
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
WE ALMOST GOT A LETTER
Remember last week, our urgent plea for some expression of student 
opinion on any phase of athletics? Well, we almost got one letter from a 
student who evidently reads this column now and then
The reason that this particular letter did not come through and receive 
publication is that the beans were spilled by the Athletic Council itself 
when it removed the piece de resistance about which this letter was to have 
been woven.
A rifle team enthusiast was all ready to send us an epistle that was 
calculated to melt the heart of any who! might be opposed to rifle shooting 
as a recognized sport. But alas and alack, the Council anticipated this ac
tion and by quick work passed a resolutipn making rill shooting a recog
nized minor sport at Carnegie Tech.
We wish to say for the rifle team men that they have done what tho 
golfers have so far failed to dothey have not only displayed interest in 
their hobby, but have actually organized and carried out a complete program 
just as though they were a varsity team already. If our information is cor
rect, they have lost only one match this year, to the University of Maine, 
and have beaten such schools as Syracuse and University of Pittsburgh, and 
a number of others. For several years a rifle club has enjoy successful 
organization.
We believe that the Athletic Council has been guilty of poor judgment 
in having recognized golf as a sport before similarly passing upon rifle shoot
ing. For a number of years, as we have pointed out, a. successful rifle toam 
has been in operation; the sport has held the interest of its supporters in 
spite of the fact that no recognition waa given. As to the status of golf 
well, judge for yourself. Six men have shown enough interest to hand in 
their nam.es to Buddy Overend.
FURTHER BASKET BALL CHANGES
The Carnegie-Penn State game scheduled for last Saturday night had to 
be postponed, in compliance with the ban on student gatherings. It has 
been scheduled to bo played on March 12, however, and will be playod on tho 
home floor. Grove City, as has been announced, will be met on tho 11th, also 
in the new gym.
The Penn State Freshman game has been called off for the entire year. 
This contest was originally scheduled for February 16.
DYKEMAN ACHIEVES 
NATL. RECOGNITION
R. S. Ferguson, Coach of Al
fred, Picks Tartan Ace on 
Mythical Team
GAMES THIS WEEK
Westminster will be met this Thursday night in the new Sklbo gym. 
This team has not made a particularly notable record of games won so far
this year, but will be on hand with plenty of pep and spirit. To add to tho
interest, the local Westminster Alumni are planning to hold some sort of a 
shindig and will strive to put the name of their Alma Mater in big loltorH 
all over the Carnegie Campus.
The Plaid basketers will then journey down to Little Washington Fri
day night and meet the big boys of W. & .1. This toam is said to bo prolty 
good, having beaten most everyone except Pitt and Grovo City, breaking 
even Avith the latter. There is no reason why tho Plaid cannot emerge vic
torious in both of these contests, and with tho backing of the student body 
should be able to put it across.
We believe that Coach Lubic is planning to make some changes lu tho 
lineup. Some new men have reported for practice since the examinations, 
and are doing their share to mako the pace hotter. Midge Matter is ono
of these, and he is said to be doing oven hotter than he did last year when
he made his letter.
Howard Dykeman, tho aco of Car
negie Cross Country runners, has 
achieved some real rocoguition from 
an* authority on the sport. R. S. Fer
guson, track coach at Alfred Univer
sity, writing in the National Athlete, 
has picked Dykeman as the second 
man on an All-Eastern Cross Country 
aggregation. We have clipped the fol
lowing material from tho article in 
The National Athlete:
"While I have much information 
with regard to the status of the game 
in tho Middle-west, I shall have to 
coniine my selection to the Eastern 
States for the obvious reason that 1 
would not bo competent to judge of 
those individuals whom I have not 
seen in ' action. In picking an allEastern Cross Country Team, I would 
say that 1 have seen, this fall, every 
one of those deserving consideration 
in such a review.
"In picking what I consider the 
strongest all-Eastern Varsity aggre
gation I must say that tho matter is 
extremely diflicult and anyone is priv
ileged to differ in this matter. I will, 
however, try to indicate my reasons. 
For tho No. 1 man in the first Varsity 
team, the crown, of necessity, goes to 
Verne Booth of Johns Hopkins Uni
versity. His splendid victory in the 
Middle-Atlantlc Statos Intor-colloglate 
Run and in tho I. C. A. A. A. A. stamps 
him as a champion without question.
Second choice .in tho all-Enstorn 
toam goes to Howard E. Dykeman of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology of 
Pittsburgh. Dykeman Is a splondidly 
built and powerful runner whoso vic
tories this year include a dual meot 
with Alfred University, a triangular 
moot with the University of Pitts
burgh and Alloghony, and a dual moot 
with Lehigh. In addition ho placod 
socond in tho I. C. A. A. A. A. Run at 
New York City."
Mr. Ferguson complotos his list with 
tho following runners: Third, Augus
tus Hillman, of Hobart College; 
fourth place Is a toss-up botweon Ryan 
and Hilinjiah, both of University of 
Maine; sixth, Case of Syracuse; and 
sovonth, Horrldc, of Alfred Univer
sity.
WE HOPE YOU HAVE MANY OF THESE, BERT
Bert Munhall has just completed a decade of service to Carnoglo Toch. 
Saturday was tli'e ofllcial date that marked the completion of his ton years 
of work as trainer of Tartan teams. In that time he has mado more friends 
probably than any other man in school, and Is remembered as ono who has 
done much for tho advancement of the name of Carnogio iii tho realm of 
athletics.
---------------------L
Syracuse University was startled last week at the announcement that 
the captain and two other stellar basket ball players wore declarod ineligible 
due to scholastic deficiencies.
Tho Naval Academy is already concernod with rowing. Candidates aro 
working daily on rowing machines and aro taking to shells whonovor tho 
weather permits. .Tliey hope to win the honor of competing in tho Olympics 
for Uncle Sam.
Tho girls rifle team of tho University of Maryland is undofoatod thus 
far this year and last year won 1-1 out of 17 matches.
Bethany College is planning for a big mld-wintor home-coming colobration during March 22, 23 and 2-1._______
SPECIAL COURSES
BOOST ENROLLMENT
Total registrations for this year at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
passed the 5,000 mark this weok as 
the result of heavy enrollments in the 
day, night and part-time courses. New 
students entering in the mid-year for 
the regular day courses unnumbered 
118. This figure, according to a re
port from the institute, represents the 
largest mid-year entering class in the 
institutes history. 
The past weeic nas also been a busy 
one, according to the report, in regis
tering new students in the night 
courses. The total night student en
rollment is now reported at 2,400. In 
reaching tills number it is reported 
that about G50 more students are tak
ing night courses at the institute this 
year than registered last year.
Increasing appreciation of the ad
vantages of the numerous part-time 
courses offered is recorded in the com
paratively large enrollment of about 
700 students in these groups. A 
large number of part-time students 
were enrolled this week as the result 
of the opening of several special 
courses in home economics given in 
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie col
lege, and a group of short courses in 
social work conducted by the depart
ment of social work.
Although accurate tabulations are 
not yet available because of the pres
ent rush of registrations, officials esti
mate that the total enrollment of all 
classes will be about 5;200 at the end 
of next week.
BASKET BALL SCHEDULE *
* Coach ................ .........Ben Lubic *
* Captain..................J. L. Anderson *>
I* Manager.........................S. Bittner *5*
I* February 21Westminster, here *
February 22Wash-Jeff, here, -I* February 29Grove City, there. !*
* March 1W. Va. Wesleyan, hero. *
March 5Allegheny, here. *
* March 7Geneva, there. <
cliase included a big carry-over 
frorn this fine crop.
Fine qualitymild, full, mellow 
flavorIbis is nothing new for 
Velvetsniokers;butlhisbigsuppIy Mrs., * 
is an extra safeguard. The savermovaiio 
pricemark this welltheiley, Y<3 same 
quality as always: J,^dith A^fhe best
Burley grown in LoKentucky.McLeod. 
Ljggt Miss L-rx b. Mrnna Tobacco Co.
-cS King.
 intere' 
is,
philosopli 
ty place in
Sophist:
I__Florida Flai
"Not a bad 
what is the m' 
it? , . Six times in'
dog fills an empto the hot dog?
MUSICAL CLUBS TO
LEAVE ON OHIO TRIP
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
Russian balallichio by Aleshin and tho 
"Saw Solo by Broudy, the quartette 
has arranged several new numbers.
Marshall, who plays the I-Iawaian 
guitar, has something new and orig
inal. Tho Novolty Jazz Orchestra 
will make the audience wiggle in their 
seats and Mathias will charm every 
one with his violin.
From all indications the - clubs are 
going to give our Ohio friends a real 
treat.
RIFLE TEAM WILL BE
A MINOR SPORT HERE
Rifle shooting lias boon recognized 
as a minor sport by tho Athletic 
Council of Carnegie Toch. This action 
was taken at tho last mooting of tho 
Council, hold last Tuesday night.
The friendly attitude of the Athletic 
Council toward (his sport will bo ap
preciated by many persons interest
ed in tlio sport, as a collegiate activ
ity. It has already enjoyed some 
measure of popularity and success at 
Carnegio and with tho added induce
ment of varsity recognition and in
signia, should rapidly develop into a 
representative activity.
Tho rifle team thus far this year 
has shot against many large schools, 
and has been victorious in almost 
overy case. Tho list of victories in
cludes one over tho marksiuen of Uni
versity of Pittsburgh.
The Athletic Couucil lias also mado 
some progross on tho managerial elec
tions for baseball and golf, blit duo to 
some of the results of tho recent ex
aminations, is reserving tlio final an
nouncements for a more delluito de
cision.
Dad"Can you support my daugh
ter?
YouthOn my knees, sir, I tell 
you yos."
I LOVE AN ENGINEER. DO YOU?
They sat alone in tho moonlight,
And she soothed Ills troubled brow, 
Dearest, I know my lifes boon fast, 
But Im on my last lap now.Buclcnellinn.
BE A NEWSPAPER CORRES
PONDENT with tlio Hoacock 
Plan nncl earn a good income 
while learning; wo show you 
howj begin actual work at once; 
all or spare time; experience un
necessary; no canvassing; sond 
Tor particulars. Nowswriters 
Training Buroau, Buffalo, N. Y.
C. M. STAU FT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists nnd Engineers Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Studonto.
PLEBE SQUAD BOLSTERED 
BY SOME NEW MATERIAL
Tho beginning of tho second somostor found a few now men reporting 
for Plebo basket ball. Hamilton, who 
playod a good game at quarterback on 
tho Plobe football team, appeared in 
a suit and showed up lino at forward 
and center. Snyder and Allen, two 
now boys at Carnegio, also showed 
that they were old hands at the game. 
Snyder, at forward, plays a fast and 
consistent game and will no doubt 
be a worthy .substitute for either 
Maurer or Lynch, tho fast Plobo for
wards.
Allen, a husky, well-built lad, plays 
a luird game at guard and gives prom
ise of being a good man on tho de
fense. Tlio Plebes have practised hard 
and regularly the past two wooks and 
a strong combination which will clouu 
up the rest of tho season can bo ex
pected.
Saturday afternoon tho Plebes 
scrimmaged the varsity scrubs. The 
appearance of Coach Irwin in uniform 
at forward was o'no of tlio surprises 
of tlio afternoon. Tho Coach featured 
not only in dropping in the baskets 
but in directly the play. By doing 
tills, tho coach has discovered tho 
need of a man to direct tho play and 
will no doubt bogin to develop one 
of tho men at the next practice.
THE HIEROGLYPHIC DITTY
Adam and Evo liad an awful timo, 
And truly, I am no liar;
They couldnt own a car at all, 
Because they lack attire.
Smiles fs^it ^ back, at 
youl
STUDENT DRIVE BEGINS TODAY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
thorn como from tlio middle class; 
that this class comprised of touchers, 
doctors, lawyers, st.ato officials, arti
sans, and small merchants ruined by 
tho doproclatlon of currency and tho 
pauperization of tho nation; that 
thoroforo tho city of Hamburg Is hav
ing to provide foodlng kitchens for 
thom- -when wo roallzo all of this It 
Is not hard to understand why fourfifths of tho stud on ta must oam their 
ontlro living while trying to carry the 
torch of learning forward throughout 
tho Old CounLry.
Each divisional assembly will have 
a speakor to say a word about tho 
work. Ono of thoso men will bo a profossor of our own school. Another 
will bo a loading insurance man in 
tho city, who has just returned from 
tho scono of tills catastrophe.
It is up to us now to mako this go, 
wo must boat the rost of tho schools 
In our district, Pitt, Grovo City, W.
J., and' others. Got your first lot of 
tickets today and ono oacli day there
after until tlio campaign Is ovor. Mako 
It YOUR obligation and good turn for 
the week.
THE GIRL MECHANIC
Doos your flancoo know much 
about uutomobiles?
Heavens, no. Sho askod me if I 
cooled my car by stripping the gears! 
University Hatchet.
CAN YOU SING THE PRAISES?
Dress Suits to Rent
You Cant Outgrow Your DRESS 
CLOTHES If You RENT Them.
Laiaont took botwoon Now York and Chloatjo.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
0002 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBUKCIH 
Smitliilolcl 0341 Hours8:30-5:30
Auf hammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
0100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sliegdan Square East Liberty
Hear
Linger
Awhile
Always
something new on 
Brunswick Records
Bennie Kruegers Orchestra
Adds zest to college life!
SY you havent heard Bennie Kruegers orchestra play 
Linger Awhile youve missed the biggest hit 
this season.
When Bennies Band starts, the wallflowers bloom again, 
the stagline gets busy cutting. The slip-horns tremble, 
the saxophones cpiiver  man, its harmony!
Go to your Brunswick dealer. Hell gladly play the latest 
Bennie Krueger records for you. New ones arc oil ale 
every few days.
Here arc more Bennie Krueger Records
2526 I.iiitfcr AwhilePox Trot
Im Siltin' Prcfty 1  Pretty Little 
CityFox Trot 
2549 Say It With a UkuleleFox Trot 
So Till 1 Vcnicc!Fox Trot 
2551 SleepFox Trot
Dancin DanFox Trot
252H OKI Paihloned Love
Fox Trot 
Out of Slfjht Out of Mlm!
Fox Trot
2485 That Old Gan of Mine Fox Tn* 
Wonder if Shes Lonely Too
Fox Trot
:ar you have I 
ver got oat of j
'The Sign of Musical Tnstigc
PHONOGRAPHS AND RECORDS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 19, 1924
&
\ ikUMNb SiGE& 1
DO YOU KNOW?
Tliut tho rank of tho Carnegie 
Tartan stuff. aro becoming rapidly 
doplptod owing to heavy BchodulLWO
That tlnjro won only 25 or HO 
men dropped from uchool thin ton?
That a girl broko up a meeting 
In, the InduntrlOB Club Room laiit 
Tuesday?
That Frank Grbln ha a little or
igan In bln office, on which he diaponnoii muidc to all who are in quoat 
of tho "o.sLohtlc?"
That Puppet ban opened a Prize 
Content for contributed article?
That the Pictures in the Beauty 
Content have boon wont to the 
Judg|0&?
That the Mimical Clubs will go 
Wost tomorrow.
That they will appear In Cleveland 
Friday evening?
That newspaper have become firstclass mall?
That tho head of the depart
ment will write series of article 
for prospective students?
M. M. Alumnae Planning 
To Hold Theater Party
CARNEGIE MAN IS 
IN FOREIGN LEGION
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
aro planning a theater party to bo 
held in the Little Theater on the 
campus. As yet no date has been decldod upon, but tho committee In 
chargo desires to hold it very soon.
Mrs. Mildred 'Spender, of the Mar
garet Morrison Science Dept., is chair
man, and the committee Includes Miss 
Frances V. Rayburn, Miss Alberta 
Green Redenlmugh, Miss Fanny Woodwfdo, Miss .T/0sephlno Whitney and 
Miss Edna C. Smith.
Ail tho members of tho alumnae and 
their friends aro invited, and an ef
fort will l)o made to give the party 
during the production of a good, en
tertaining play, possibly a comedy; 
by tho 'Drama Department.
I LOVE AN ENGINEER. DO YOU?
FOR YOUR NEXT 
MARCEL WAVE 
COLLES BEAUTY SHOP 
SUITE 610HERSCH BLDG. 
339 Fifth Avo. Grant 9493.
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ton yonru' cxperlenoo.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Establlahod 188(1. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jon. P. Flnhor, Jr.,
Owner and Mnnagar. Court 0BD4
Edgar G. Hamilton is Only 
American to Hold Com
mission in Legion
In tho person of Edgar 0. ("JOggs") 
Hamilton, Carnegie Alumni, have a 
real, true aiulJ active sourco for a 
fjeaturo picture or a novel. Till ad* 
vonluroue youth was a student at 
Carnoglo Tech, but the opportunity 
came to him to do something which 
lie loved, so ho look It. During the 
early days of tho World War Hamil
ton enlisted a a private in tho 
French Foreign Legion, and sorvod 
with an enviable record during tho 
war. On July 5, 1028, the Alumni 
Department received a very interest
ing letter from him, which road very 
much like a desort novelprobably 
becaiUHO' ho was then stationed on 
the Sahara Desert with the French 
Legion In Africa. In the letter he 
said:
"Tempted) by tho glamour of the 
adventurous life led by tho officers 
in tho Legion, which in peace times 
is located In French Colonies, I de
termined to romaln a time in tho 
French Army, and go with the Le
gion to Africa.
"in January I was transferred to 
one ofl tho mounted companies and 
was located on the Sarahd. Being 
composed of two hundred and fifty 
men and four officers, it is, by far 
the finest command to which an ofiicer in tho Legion can aspire. At 
present our chief work is escorting 
caravans from oasis to oasis, keep
ing the wells in condition, as Ihey 
aro constantly being filled with sand 
blown up by the daily siroccos, and 
in pursuing! bandits that infest the 
territory, coming from, tho oases boyon d our frontiers..
"My life hero is naturally a very 
solitary one. I am usually alone, as 
the company seldom marches as a 
whole, and as I am second in com
mand I am always In charge of the 
larger detachments. Sometimes one 
of tho French Lieutenants comes 
with me. I am so isolatod from tho 
outside civilization that I haven't 
heard a word of English spoken for 
seven months, and in consequence, 
I am looking forward! with an antici
pation whoso fervor can easily bo
understood, to a six months leavo 
that will fall due in Novombor, at 
which time I expoct to return to
America."
II. Is not uncommon for our alumni 
to go to distant parts of tho world, 
but It Is rather unusual that one 
should ho an Officer In a Foreign
Army,, and osp'oclally on tho desert
Perhaps, If "IflgKs" comes back to 
Coruplo To oh on bln leave, which 
he Is reported to be anticipating, lie 
could bo Induced to toll us tho real 
story of tho "Sheik," and thus give 
some Idea of tho situation In tho 
hronch Colonies,
Staillly IncrcHHlnft nule 
each iiuccoeillnn year 
plainly Indicate the uni* 
vernlty numll approval of 
John Ward Menfti Slvoctu 
A variety of Imiin, putternrt 
anil lethern to meet every 
need xvll be iibovvii by 
D. T. Klrltpnirlck at
SKIBO INN
Saturday, March 1
and
Monday, March 3
Stores in New York,Brooklyn,Newark, 
nnd Philndelphiu Address for Mail 
Orders, 121 Dunne'St,, New York City
NO one ever 
gets tired of 
Mclachrinos  
their unfailing 
quality is a con
stant satisfaction.
1 ORIGINALMELACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
| THE TELESCOPE ]
Of prime interest to all alumni, as 
well as to all present students of Car
negie, will be the series of articles 
written by tho heads of all depart
ments which offer courses leading to 
degrees.
The artlcloB will set out in clear 
and concise language Just what the 
work of tho authors department pre
pares the student for, and just how 
ho v/ill be prepared for It.
We aro publishing those articles be
cause llioy will provide a way to a 
better understanding of what is being 
done at tho old Alma Mater. There is 
good reason to doubt that wo aro all 
awaro that Carnoglo offers degree 
courses In twenty-eight different lines.
It needs hardly be said that a long 
felt need of the clans should be filled 
by this series. Few Engineers know, 
for instance what is happening in 
Arts School and few M. M.'s know 
what is the dally work of tho College 
of Industries. It Is therefore no wondor that Alumni often find themselves 
at a loss to explain to prospective 
students what they may expect when 
entering here and it is hoped that all 
will avail themselves of this oppor
tunity for getting first-hand informa/ 
tion on the maiiy courses.
Andrew Olsen who was so popular 
on tho campus last year, writes us 
from Winona, Minnesota, that he is 
getting along mighty well out on the 
great open spaces.
We are In receipt of a letter from C. 
McFarland which indicates that he is 
now tho president of the McFarland 
Engineering Company, Mechanical 
Equipment Contractors, of Kansas 
City, Missouri.
By the way both of these gentle
men read page five of tho February 
Alumnus. Did you?
No educational institution has ever 
really achieved its rightful place un
til Its alumni lineup In its cause. 
At Yale, most of the editorials are 
written by members of the Alumni. 
At Williams,  the alumni have cen
sored severely an undergraduate ed
itor for writing against oxams. Wheth
er they were right or wrong, they were 
at l<cast Interested.
CLAN NEWS
CLEVELAND CLANS TO HEAR
CARNEGIE MUSICAL CLUBS
Hero' your chance, Cleveland 
Alumni, to see "that old gang ot 
yours' again and to hoar a distinc
tive Carnoglo Tech entertainment 
Those who have had tho opportunity 
to hear the Musical Clubs this sea
son say that they are worth going 
miles to hoar. Hero is a chance to 
hoar them at tholr host, and "just, 
around ;ho corner!  There will ho 
only ono place In Clovehindi on tho 
evening of Saturday, February 2," 
That will be tho Calvary Presbyte
rian Church, at tho corner of Euclid 
avonulo and East Sovonth-nlnth 
street. Thoro are rumors that parts 
of tho program will bo broadcasted. 
The Clan and Calvary ProBbytorlnn 
(Mmrcli are joining hand to make 
It. possible to bring tho Muslca 
Cluhtv to Cleveland, it woiuldl bo dif
ficult to secure a more convenient lo 
cation for the concert.
The concert will begin at 7:45 s' 
that there wil bo lots of time for 
the dancing and good time which Is 
to follow. Ticket sales at present 
Indicate that there will be a capac
ity crowd. Every alumnus and alumae 
from or near Cleveland will be there.
HARRISBURG CLAN ENTERTAINS DR. BAKER AT DINNER
Members of the Harrisburg- Came 
gie Clan entertained Dr. Thomas S. 
Baker at dinner, while he was at
tending the convention of the Asso
ciation of College Presidents of Penn 
sylvania. The dinner was held at 
the Penn-Iiarris Hotei, Wednesday 
night, February 6. Twenty-live mem
bers. were present. John Todd! acted 
as toastmaster and toasts were called 
for almost every member present.
Dr. Baker gave in brief the work 
which is being done in every de
partment. of the school and the poli
cies of the administration in general 
and then called1 for questions and 
discussion. The discussion showed 
that every member present is great
ly interested in the work at Carne
gie. Miss Kennedy and G. D. Wiiitney entertained with solos, which 
were much appreciated by the eatJier.ng ATter a social hour tho meet
ing adjourned.
CARDS BEING SENT 
OUT TO ALL ALUMNI
Tartan Requests Immediate 
Answer From All C. I. T. 
Alumni
Carnegie Alumni are receiving cards 
asking for replies to the offer made 
to them in the February Alumnus. 
This matter is urgent and deserves 
immediate action.
The Carnegie Tartan which is con
ducting the undertaking is giving each 
and every Alumnus and Alumnae an 
opportunity to act upon it before the 
student campaign begins in March.
To Eenefit Carnegie Alumni.
No preliminary publicity, other than 
that which appeared In the February 
Alumnus, is being given the affair. 
Tho Alumnus article was permitted to 
go out solely for the benefit of Car
negie Alumni, that they might be 
able to take advantage of the offer 
before it is made public to the stu
dents.
First Time at Carnegie.
Things like this one do not happen 
every year. This is the first under
taking of its kind ever staged at Car
negie Tech and every Carnegie Alum
nus and Alumnae should take part in 
tho project.
Will Seal Links in Carnegie Chain.
The benefits which Carnegie Alum
ni and which the school will derive 
from it are incalculable. This under
taking will seal together the strong 
links in the chain of Carnegie tradi
tion.
What Some Think of It.
"I shall be anxiously awaiting its ar
rival."
"We are glad to know that we are
going to have a...................... before
some of us are too old to .................
I have been waiting a long time 
for that..................
"Tho Gym and the .............................
in one year! It is almost too good to 
believe."
I can hardly wait the three weeks 
for it.
Tartan Wants Replies Nowl
The Carnegie Tartan wants a re
sponse to this offer from every Car
negie Alumnus and Alumnae. Mail 
all replies to A. E. Krogli, Alumni 
Editor, Box G3, C. I. T. postofflce.
CLANSMEN SCORE ANONYMOUS WRITER
As the Carnegie Tartan goes to 
press we are in receipt of two more 
letters in answer to the letter pub
lished in the issue of January 2-2.
The arguments put forth by the 
writers are perhaps not conclusive 
for the whole body of Clans, but they 
certainly seem to prove that the 
anonymous writer was wrong. The 
fact that there are Alumni and 
Alumnae who are so ignorant of the 
doings of their associates indicates 
that there is a big field in which
the Carnegie Tartan can be of serv
ice. We therefore again offer our 
columns to direct correspondence or 
news service for the various clans.
We are taking steps to learn the 
name of the writer of the first let
ter. In the meantime the blame 
rests upon the shoulders of the 
Alumni Editor. In the future all 
correspondence must carry the sig
nature of the writer before it will 
be admitted! to these columns.
YE ALUMNI EDITOR.
ST. LOUIS WRITER OBJECTS TO GENERALIZATION
Alumni Editor, Carnegie Tartan: 
Dear Sir:
The letter that appeared recently 
in The Tartan attacking the Clans 
was noticed ringed In red in some 
back numbered Tartans not forward
ed to the writer while in the West 
on a trip. A new Tartan prints an 
answer. I believe that there may be 
another version.
It is true that the Tartan has 
only published social doings, but the 
detailed routine work of the Clans 
in its constant repetition would 
make dry reading indeed. Not much 
is printed of the St. Louis Clan be
cause it has no social activity. This 
does not mean, however that we do 
not boost Carnegie. Missouri is the 
"iSliow Me state and it took long 
plugging to finally get the papers 
here to print Carnegie news, hut 
they do print it now.
Also, almost every organization in
St. Louis, Rotary, Kiwanis, Civitan, 
various Engineering Societies, Educa
tional, Radio, etc., will give Carnegie 
speakers a hearing at any time.
The writer in frequent trips around 
the country checks; up on all local 
Tech men in the various towns and 
cities and invariably finds them a/ll 
wlell known, successful and certainly 
big boosters.
Apparently the unknown writer is 
not an active Clan Worker and so 
does not know of the work. This 
may excuse much. His letter may 
do some good in spite of all, by 
waking up any sleepy members that 
may be in the Clan. Lets hope it 
makes everyone work harder, put the 
Clan on its toes so that when an 
emergency, comes, all Clans can 
as Missouri puts itShow Mein 
other wordsProduce."
Very truly yours,
M. A. ZELLER, 
St. Louis, Mo.
MEMBER OF NEW YORK CLAN ALSO TAKES EXCEPTION
H. F. Simpson, Editor in Chiefr Car
negie Tartan.
Dear Sir:
The anonymous letter which was 
published in Tho Tartan of January 
22 has undoubtedly been ignored by 
most of the members of Carnegie 
Clans owing, to the fact that the 
writer of that letter did not care to 
make his name known.
A man who writes a letter of that 
character and then d'ares not1 sign his 
name is not a real Tech man. Why 
does he not tell us about the work 
being done by his clan (if he is a
member), so that we may know 
whether or not he is in a position to 
criticize others. If he is really somuch interested regarding the work 
of the various Clans, he can very 
easily obtain a detailed report by 
writing to the various secretaries 
whose names and addresses are listed 
on the Alumni Page of The Tartan.
Why not publish the name of the 
writer of that letter as well as a 
few facts regarding his accomplish
ments in behalf of Carnegie.
Personally I question the policy 
of The Tartan in allowing such a let
ter to be published. If a letter Is
DO YOU RECALL? ]
When the Department of Printing 
was established and was hailed as a 
forward step by tho printers of the 
city?1911.
When Andrew Carnegie asked1 the 
school trustees how to spend more 
money1911. Incidentally, they knew.
When two Engineers made an at
tempt to make fudge from a recipe 
given them by their Maggy Moiphs. 
The result was butter schotch1911.
When the strike by the Artists 
Models of America crippled the Sen
ior Classes in Still Life?1911.
When Andrew Carnegie said that 
our educational system was all 
wrong?1911. (This was after the 
trustees had told him how to spend 
more money.)
When the question of the Co-ed 
on the Campus was the vital and 
burning issue at all meetings for 
Ladies Aid Societies?1911.
THE HIEROGLYPHIC DITTY
INTERFRAT COUNCIL
CHANGES NAME
(Continued From Page One.) 
council. The suggestions were re
ferred to the committee again.
A suggestion that more considera
tion be given the Pattern Shop in the 
making of paddles was brought- up. 
It was also suggested that the mak
ing of paddles in the Pattern Shop 
be stopped.
The next meeting will be Satur
day morning, March 1, at 10:30, in 
the Y. M. C. A.
As tie placed that hand in his own, 
And pressed it close to his chest, 
He dared not whisper a sound,
Nor even breathe at best.
He squeezed it lightly, and kriew 
That it meant lots of good things. 
For whatever hand in the world 
Could beat an ace and four ldngs?
Geneva College.
not worth endorsing, it surely 9 not 
worth publishing.
If the person who wrote that let
ter dares to be announced the next 
time he broadcasts, we will all be 
glad to listen in."
Yours very truly,
S. A. SMITH, 19, 
Member New York Clan.
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continuod From Pago Ono.) 
"tlioy aro far too studious, hut whon 
they do talco timo off thoy aro good 
sporto."
Thoro Is ono topic on which nono 
would offer an opinion. That is tho 
subjoot, of smoking. No ono would 
say what ho thought of this form of 
diversion!
PLANS FOR SOPH GIRLS
BANQUETS PROGRESSING
(Continued From Pago 1)
C. C.; Edith Schiuus, Arts; Josophino 
Miller, M. M. C. C.
Publicity CommittoQ  Chairman, 
Virginia Wallace, Arts; Josephine 
Day, M. M. C. C.
The Sophomore of Arts and Marga
ret Morrison have turned out in full 
force and everyone is working to maka 
the First Girls Sophomore banquet a 
huge success.
CAN YOU SING THE PRAISES?
The pathways of power aro 
tho highways of progress
efore Alternating Current Dominated the Electrical 
Industry*-
What Engineering Owes 
to the^ Far-Sightedness 
of Qeorge Westinghouse
THE) impregnable position now occupied by alter
nating current was attained only after a bitter 
struggle, for, due to its supposedly deadly character
istics, practically the entire electrical fraternity once 
opposed the progress of what was generally referred 
to as Westinghouse Current.
Gaulard and Gibbs originated the alternating 
current system in Europe. Their system was im
practical in many respects, but had been used with 
some success for lighting.
George Westinghouse became interested, and im
mediately recognized that the weakness of their 
syste'm lay in the design and principles governing 
the transformer.
He devoted the resources of his organization to 
the development of the transformer. When he made 
it a practical unit, alternating current, with its vast 
commercial advantages, then became possible.
The beginning of the bitter struggle by George 
Westinghouse for the supremacy of alternatingcurrent goes back to 1885 and 1886. Remarkable 
progress has been made since then and voltages as 
high as 220,000 are in commercial use today.
Engineering owes much to the far-sightedness and 
fighting qualities of George Westinghouse.
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
'WESTINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC
