INTER-HONORARY 
DANCECARNEGIE 
UNIONTONIGHT
GAMBOL OF THE GUILDS 
CARNEGIE UNION 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
VOL. XVII. NO. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1923
INDUSTRIES AND 
SCIENCE FROSH 
TO BE MERGED
APPLICATION FOR CAMPUS 
WEEK CONCESSIONS MUST
BE IN BY FEBRUARY 28
New Students WillHave One 
Year to Choose Course 
Curriculum of Both Schools 
to Be Revised Accordingly
STARTS NEXT SEPT
The Industries and Science Fresh
men classes "will be consolidated next 
September and 'Svill thereafter func
tion as a single class having the same 
schedule, entrance requirements and 
administration.
The desirability of such a change 
has long been felt and will be a big 
improvement over the present courses 
since the entering student lias an en
tire year to decide before entering 
either Engineering 01* Industries. 
Many students enter with the inten
tion of becoming engineers,' for the 
term appeals to them and when they 
see the true situation and feel the 
comparative weights of the courses, 
they prefer Industries but have gone 
too far in Science to change.
Similarly the administration will 
be simplified. No longer will there 
be two separate classes requiring two 
distinct staffs of teachers but one 
homogeneous whole which derives 
the combined advantages of both and 
none of the. drawbacks.
This measure will also bring the 
Science and Industries Colleges 
closer together and gradually elimi
nate the vague rivalry which now ex
ists between the two and by unifying 
their interests, will aid toward the 
betterment of Carnegie spirit.
The entrance requirements now dif
fer considerably, but by 1924 both 
Science and Industries will have the 
same entrance standards.
The present Science course will be 
the basis of the new course and in 
most ways it will be a great deal 
easier. Math, the bane of every 
Plebes life, has been reduced from 
fifteen to nine units a week. English, 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Official notice is hereby given to 
all students who wish to apply for 
Campus Week concessions that they 
must make written application to the 
General Committee before February 
28, at which time a general commit
tee meeting will be held, and all such 
applications acted upon. These can 
be given to A. R. Zelt, chairman, or 
to any other member of the general 
committee, who will in turn bring it 
to the meeting on February 28.
FIFTY PRESENT AT 
DINNER OF A.S.I.E.
Professor Trinks Speaks on 
the Advantages of 
School Activities
Petition to Student 
Council is Rejected
Representation of Juniors on 
Council Favored
The Student Council will expend 
three hundred and fifty dollars in the 
next few weeks for permanent elec
trical equipment for Campus Week 
uses. Last year it was only by a 
fortunate chance that the committee 
Ava^ able to get strings of lights for 
lighting the campus. So it was 
thought advisable 'to purchase the 
materials for making the strings of 
lights. The Electrical Department of 
Science will make them up.
Rody Patterson made a report of 
the meeting of the petitioners held 
last Thursday afternoon. There was 
a total of sixteen people present at 
the meeting, six of whom were sign
ers of the petition, six were Student 
Council members and the rest were 
spectators. The chairman brought 
out the fact that no plan for obtain
ing adequate representation was pro
posed in the petition and that a con
stitutional amendment was neces
sary before such representation was 
possible. He also showed that the 
organization fostering the petition 
had acted unwisely in not taking up 
the matter first with the Council. A 
very desultory discussion took place 
with nothing definite being done.
Council devoted considerable time 
at its meeting Thursday night to a 
discussion of the petition and at last 
acted favorably on the following mo
tion: Moved, that the petition of
three hundred students as presented 
by the Sine Nomine Club to change 
student representation on the Student 
Council be rejected on the grounds 
that paragraphs 1 and 2 of the pe
tition are inaccurate and misleading 
statements of existing conditions. It 
is true that this year the members 
are all Seniors but according to the 
constitution only five of the members 
nrust be Seniors. Last year there was 
one Junior on the Council. Also the 
underclasses have representation 
through the different senate presi
dents who do not represent the Sen
ior class but the entire school over 
which each presides.
However the members of the Coun
cil thought that some means might 
(Continued on Page Four.)
March 17 Tentative Date 
Fon Science Stag Smoker
At the last meeting of the Science 
Senate a committee consisting of 
Messrs. Thomson, Jeffers, Brillhart, 
Andrew and Campbell, was appoint
ed to arrange the annual affair 
known as the Science Stag Smoker. 
March 17 has been suggested as a 
tentative date for the gathering.
For those who don't know let us 
say -that the Science Stag Smoker is 
to the College of Engineering what 
the Arts Ball is to the College of Fine 
Arts. Some definite plans will no 
, doubt be available for the next issue 
of the Carnegie Tartan.
Fifty members of the local student 
chapter of the American Society of 
Industrial Engineers, wlj^o had the 
hardihood to brave the gale that blew 
across the cut, and attend the dinner 
in the Carnegie Commons at 6:15 last 
Wednesday evening, were amply re
warded for their sacrifice by the pala
table spread Miss Smith had prepared 
for them, and the instructive and en
tertaining talk given by Professor 
Trinks of the Mechanical Engineering 
Department.
After dinner had been disposed of 
President Roger Marshall called the 
members to order and a short busi
ness meeting ensued. A definite time 
and place of future meetings were 
discussed, and it was decided that 
meetings shall be held each Wednes
day evening at 6:15, in the Carnegie 
Commons. A motion calling for read-, 
dngs from the present members of the 
Senior class, to be given at future 
meetings, caused some lively discus
sion, but was finally carried. When 
the treasury report and other busi
ness was taken care of, the meeting 
was turned over to Professor Leeds 
of the Machinery Production Depart
ment. Professor Leeds then intro
duced the speaker of the evening, 
Professor Trinks of the Mechanical 
Engineering Department.
Professor Trinks spoke of the dan
ger of becoming one of the army of 
routine workers, after graduation, un
less one were continually on the job 
and capable of filling completely, any 
position of a higher nature which opfortunity presented. 1-Ie pointed out 
the value of school activities in this 
connection and urged those present 
to get in some activity. I11 conclud
ing he commended the work of Pro
fessor Leeds, in organizing and get
ting installed the local student chap
ter of the American Society of Indus
trial Engineers.
Any Industries student, in good 
standing, from one of the three upper 
(Continued on Page Three)
M. M. Guild Cabaret Card 
Party in Union, Saturday
The last event to be given by the 
Guild will be in the form of a Cab
aret Card Party on Saturday, Febru
ary 24. It is to be held in the Union 
and the fee will be 75 cents.
This party is diiferent from any 
that have ever been given on the 
campus. Bridge and five hundred 
will be played from 2 to 4 oclock, at 
this time refreshments will be served. 
From 4 to 6 oclock there will be 
dancing to music furnished by the 
Tartan Seven, while stunts will be 
one of the largest features of the af
ternoon. Four prizes will be given 
to the card players, a high and a low 
prize for. bridge  and the same for 
five hundred.
An invitation is extended to all 
women students, faculty and alumni.
The committee, Mary Heilig, chair
man, Faye Glass, Mary Stuempfle, 
Mildred Lucas, Dorothy Chalmers, 
Anne Stewart and Bernice Kruger of 
the alumni, has been hard at work 
for several weeks planning and per
fecting the details of the affair. As 
far as success is concerned this party 
is destined to be a close rival to the 
Guild Carnival. Come and see!
LECTURES BY 
DR. J. ERSKINE 
FILL THEATER
MASON-DIXON SEVEN TO 
PLAY AT THE SOPH HOP
IN ARTS FOYER, MARCH
SCHOLARSHIP OFFERED
FOR PICTURE SCENARIO
The Universal Pictures Corporation 
has offered |^choIarship of one thou
sand dollari^ to students in several 
colleges, including Carnegie Tech, for 
a scenario for motion pictures. In 
addition to th scholarship the sce
nario will be paid for at a i-ate to 
be determined by the company, said 
amount to be not less than $500. The 
scholarship is offered in order to de
termine whether or not students can 
be of assistance in the campaign for 
better pictures that has been inaugu
rated by Mr. Will H. Hays as presi
dent of the combined motion picture 
interests. The donor of the scholar
ship has required that allscena rios 
from any one college shall be deliv
ered, sealed, to the Chairman of the 
Scholarship Committee of that col
lege, who will forward the manu
scripts not later than May 15, 1923.
Full information concerning addi
tional requirements of the contest 
may be secured at Dean Tarbells 
office.
Miss Gladys Blanche Sleppy, for
merly secretary in the Department of 
Psychology, has resumed her studies 
in M. M. College.
Eminent English Professor 
Talks to Capacity Crowd 
Each Day. Talks on Poet
ry, Fiction, and Criti
cism
LECTURES OUTLINED
Those fortunate enough to have at
tended any of the lectures last week 
by Dr. John Erskine, the eminent 
Professor of English at Columbia Uni
versity, given in the Arts Theater 
agreed that the series was one of 
the most important and enlightening 
ever offered at Carnegie Tech. Dr. 
Erskines pre-eminence in the field of 
literature was exemplified in the mas
terful treatment of his subject. His 
expert versions of poetry, fiction, and 
criticism of today improved the mind 
of each of his listeners.
For each lecture there was a long 
waiting line to fill up the unclaimed 
reserved seats, and consequently Dr. 
Erskine spoke before capacity audi
ences each day. On Wednesday his 
topic was Poetry; Thursday he dis
cussed "Fiction: and Friday he 
spoke 011 Criticism.
The Tartan was fortunate in obtain
ing from Professor Erskine, his own 
written synopses of his three lec
tures and they are given below: 
"Fiction.
If we criticise the new poetry for 
trying to portray realistically our 
contemporary world, we ought logic
ally to praise the novel for doing the 
same thing, for the business of the 
no^el is supposed to be the portrayal 
of the world as it is. It appears, how
ever, that the general public are as 
little agreed about the merits of cur
rent novels as they are about current 
poetry. The poems are said, at the 
worst, to be trivial; the novels aro 
sometimes called positively indecent.
The grounds on which the contem
porary novel is criticised are three. 
In the first place, most fiction today 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ORIGINAL WORK DONE BY 
RESEARCH DEPARTMENT
The Retail Bureau of the Division 
of Co-operative Research recently 
completed working up a new method 
for picking salesmen for the Ameri
can Radiator Company.
This company uses a force of about 
two hundred salesmen In keeping 
their chief product the Areola Heater, 
before the eyes of the public. They 
spend a great deal or time and money 
in do/eloping the best ideas and meth
ods of putting their products across 
and it was with this Idea that the 
Retail Bureau was asked to devise 
some new methods of picking sales
men.
A series of tests were given to the 
salesmen in the ten district branches 
of the company in order to discover 
the characteristics that made up tho 
most successful salesmen for the 
company. With this information, the 
Retail Bureau will prepare a manual 
to be used by the sales managers of 
the company in picking, the new sales
men.
The American Radiator Company 
takes on many new salesmen each 
year and one of the facts that have 
been demonstrated is that Technical 
School graduates usually make good 
salesmen.
Two Prominent Men Will 
Speak Here Next Month
Among prominent speakers secured 
to appear within the next month at 
Carnegie Tech,are Samuel M. Vauclain, president of the Baldwin Loco
motive Works, and Dr. W. D. Har
kins, the distinguished chemist at Chi
cago University.
Mr. Vauclain has consented to come 
here, on Wednesday, March 14th, to 
address the general assembly of stu
dents in the Music Hall. Dr. Baker, 
announces that this meeting, to be 
held at noon, will be open to the pub
lic.
Of special interest is the announce
ment of Dr. Harkins engagement, 
which is for a series of technical lec
tures on the evenings of March 7, 8 
and 9. There is a noticeable effort 
being made at Carnegie Tech to ex
tend its service to Pittsburgh by 
using its prestige In securing leading 
authorities in various industrial 
fields; and in Dr. Harkins, the school 
has engaged one of the countrys lead
ing chemists, known from coast to 
coast. Incidentally, Dr. Harkins is a 
native of Titusville, Pa. He 1 a 
graduate of Leland Stanford Univer
sity, and subsequently studied at the 
University of Chicago, Massachusetts 
Tech, and in Germany.
Dr. Harkins is particularly well 
known for his work In chemistry re
search, and he has a number of re
sponsible connections with scientific 
organizations, and engineering and 
scientific commissions. At present he 
is professor of physical chemistry at 
Chicago.
The social committee of the class 
of 25 has definitely booked the orig
inal Mason-Dixon Seven with thoir 
eleven pieces for the annual Soph 
Hop which will be held in the foyer 
of the College of Fine Arts frbrn 9 
p. m. to 1 a. 111. on March 9. 1923.
The assessment is but three dol
lars, but the sale, of tickets is limited 
to 200. They may be secured by 
members of the Sophomore class 
from February 2t to February 2S af
ter which time tickets will be avail
able to any who wish to enjoy the' 
treat.
The appearance of the orginal Mason-Dixou Seven at this event will bo 
a great drawing card and tickets are 
expected to go like wildfire. Besides 
the musical portion of the program 
the committee has arranged for spe
cial entertainments by our popular 
comedians "Obie Newman, Carl Sny
der, Doc Taylor, Phil Thorne, 
Besse Johnson and Harry Mervis.
The programs will be of very artis
tic leather work.
PERSIAN MINISTER 
ADDRESSES SCHOOL
Newly Appointed President 
T. S. Baker is Informally 
Inaugurated
"Persians know that tlie United 
States have no axe to grind in tlio 
Middle East and they have been much 
impressed by many proofs of your po
litical disinterestedness in other 
pprts of the world. Hon. Nirza Hus
sein Khan Alai, Persian Minister to 
the United States, told students of 
Carnegie last Wodnesday. Americas 
invariable solicitude for Persias wel
fare has deeply touched the Persian 
people who have great confidence In 
your altruistic motives, he declared.
Mr. Alai carjie to Pittsburgh at tho 
invitation of President T. S. Baker to 
address the general assembly of Car
negie Tech students, and he mnde a 
strong impression with his clearcut, 
well chosen remarks. He is compar
atively young,f being, forty years old, 
and is tho son of tho lote Prince Alaos-Sa/tanelr, who was several times 
Foreign and Ptimo Minister of Porsia. The address was made before 
an audience of students and interest
ed outsiders, in Carnegie Music Hall.
The Persian was unstinted in his 
praise of this country for its unsel
fish attitude In foreign affairs, and I10 
took tho opportunity to expross his 
confidence, as a citizen of Persia, in 
tlio foreign policy, directed by Secre
tary of  State Hughes. He said In 
part:
Persias relations- with the United 
iStates of America have always beon 
marked by cordiality; there Is now, 
more than over, an earnest desire on 
the part of the Persian Governmont 
and Parliament to consolidate the tlos 
of Intimate friendship between tho 
two countries and mako Persia bottor 
known to America.
The position now is encouraging 
to American enterprise; your capital 
can be profitably Invested In Persia 
for the development of the great na(Continued on Page Four.)
RITA COVENTRY NOW 
RUNNING IN NEW YORK
Word comes from New York the
atrical circles that Rita Coventry, 
the play that was first presented last 
December, will make its professional 
premiere in New York on February 
19th. 'Professor Hubert Osborne, who 
dramatized Rita Coventry' from the 
novel by Julian Street, has returned 
from New York where he has been 
assisting Producer Brock Pemberton 
in its production.
If this play receives half as much 
enthusiasm in New York as was ac
corded it here when the Carnegie 
players produced it, Rita Coventry 
should enjoy a long and successful 
run.
Gossip on the campus has it that 
several student members of the cast 
that presented the play here have 
been offered the respective parts in 
the professional company. One of 
the young ladies in particular, it is 
said, received a flattering offer, but 
she finally decided to finish her 
course at the Institute.
MUSICAL CLUBS 
NOW READY FOR 
EXTENDED TRIP
DR. BARTO VISITS SOME
NEARBY HIGH SCHOOLS
Forty-Three Men Will Leave 
at Noon For Four-Day Tour 
of OhioCleveland, Elyria 
and Orville on Itinerary
DANCES EVERY NIGHT
Dr. Charters was at Stephans Col
lege last week conferring with the 
faculty.
. *>. J. J* J, A- j. j* 4.
MARGARET MORRISON A. A.
> WILL HOLD FIRST OF A 
SERIES OF HIKES TODAY
 All girls in tho M. M. C. C. 
 are Invited to take part in the *
 first hike of tho yoar to be ?
 held thie afternoon. Two *
 groups, each accompanied by *
 a leader, will leave the M. M. 
 building, one at 3:30 and one 
> at 4:30. Both hikes will last 
- one hour. The hikes offer a 
 splendid opportunty for tho * 
J girls to earn athletic points, -
 and in addition wilL benefit 
 physically those who go. Other *
- hikes are being planned for the 
 future, and if sufficiently well 
 attended, will become regular 
- events.
;
, 2. .! A A A A A A A A A A A A ^
After spending two enjoyable even 
ings in giving concerts at Etna und 
New Kensington the Carnegie Mu
sical Clubs are now rounded Into 
shape for their trip through Ohio 
which will extend over this week
end. Judging from the reception 
given to tho clubs on the two trips 
already made there is no duobt that 
the men in the club are going to have 
a very enjoyable trip and will give 
exceptional programs. 
F6rty-three men will leavo this 
noon for Orville, Ohio, where tho 
first concert will be given. This con
cert will be given tonight In the Orvillo High School under the auspices 
of the Senior Class. Mr. H. A. P. 
Bliss, a inember of the faculty of tho 
High School and a former manager 
of the Carnegie Glee Club arranged 
for the concert. Following tho con 
cert a dance will bo given at the 
school.
The following morning tho men will 
go to Cleveland, giving a concert in 
the Rockwood Fountain Room of tho 
Hotel Olmstead. Tills concert will 
bo given under tho auspices of tlio 
Martha Leo Club and will precede a 
dhnce for which the Tech Novelty 
Orchestra will provide the music.
Friday afternoon tho clubs will give 
a matinee concert, and dance I11 tho 
Glenvlllo High School sponsored by 
the Senior Class. While In Clovoland (Thursday and Friday nights) 
tho mon will bo lodged In tho IiomoB 
o^ members of tho Cleveland Carneglo Clan.
Saturday, tho men will go to Elyria 
to give a concert and dance In the 
Elyria High. School under tho auspices 
of tlio Womans Civic Club of Elyria.
(Continued on Pago Throe,)
PUPPET ASKS HELP 
FOR JUDGE CONTEST
According to tho edltor-ln-chlof of 
Puppet, Jamos K. Matter, tho students 
did not como through as woll us thoy 
woro oxpoctod to In tho appeal for 
contributions for tho Judge College 
Wit Number, tho details of which 
woro published in tho Tartan two 
weeks ago.
Although each sLudent of tho four 
schools was aslcod to furnish two con
tributions, only 500 havo boon rocoivod. Of tlioso, a high numbor aro 
satisfactory, hut slnco thoro aro 5,000 
students at Carnogle, it can bo soon 
easily that all havo not dono thoir slmro.
Puppet wishes to thank all Carnogle 
studonts for holplng In tills fight. It 
Is not too late, liowovor, for those 
that havo not yet dono thoir bit to 
bring tho cup to Carnogle this yoar. 
If tho studonts that havo not yet sent 
in tlioir two jokes will got thom In 
within a week, they will be In tlmo to 
help themselves, thoir Alma Mater, 
and Puppot. Remembering that the 
Puppot staff cannot do all tho fight
ing, it is hoped that tho romain lag 
students will hasten their contribu
tions to tho post office and leavo 
them in care of Puppet. These con
tributions should contain the origi
nators name and the number of his 
class year.
Inter-Honorary Dance to 
Be Held Tonight in Union
Tho Union is all dressed up In its 
finest foliage for the annual InterIIonorary dance tonight. A new light
ing effect for this affair has been 
worked out by the committee in 
charge of decorations. The design is 
harmonious with the general color 
scheme of the Union and has been 
made to be especially suitable to the 
nature of the event.
Obie Newman will be on the pro
gram, too. He will spring a little 
novelty number during tho course of 
the program. The stunt in mind is 
one which, so far as is known, has 
never been tried around here and its 
innovation at the Inter-IIonorary 
frolic will.be something in the nature 
of an experiment. The Alabama boy 
will put it across if anybody can.
Tho Collegiate Six will play; tho 
tlmo and tho place arp all right, and 
wo hopo your girl is. Tho price Is 
only two slmoloons per couple, pay
able at the entrance, or ono dollar 
plus a preliminary ticket. Prelimi
nary ticket have boon old during 
tho lat few day among tho member 
of tho varlouM honorary oclotlo.
Tho commlttoo In charge 1 compoHcd of E. C. Frazier and Don Gard
ner. Ted Iiughos, Wayne Koppe and 
Dick Cutting have had tho tak of doBlgning and HuperviBing the constructlon of tho decoration.
Doan and Mrs. Morris, Prof. and 
Mrs. Hower, and MIsb Mary Loule 
Brown and Mr. Swanson have been 
lunvlted to act as chaperonB. It is 
hoped that many alumni members of 
the societies will be present.
Dr. P. S. Barto, secretary of the 
Committee on Admissions, Is making 
a series of visits to the various high 
schools of the districts from which 
Carnegie Tech draws the majority 
of its students.
On these prelimlnajry [visits, (Dr. 
Barto is becoming acquainted with 
the officials of the high schools. On 
later visits to these same schools, 
Dr. Barto will address tho high school 
student bodies on tho educational and 
commercial value of a technical col(CoutinuQd 011 Page Three)
DR. SCHOEN SCORES 
FOR PSYCHOLOGISTS
Conducts' Test of Abilities of 
Music Pupils  Results 
Tally With Grades
In the February number of the Mu
sical Observer, there appeared a fea
ture article by Dr. Schoen of the 
Psychology Department.
I11 this article Dr. Schoen answers 
a question that is probably upper
most in the minds of many people 
who are at all interested in music; 
namely, to what extent may the tests 
for musical talent that havo beon dovised by psychologists bo depended 
upon for reliability?
Dr. Schoen secured the co-operation 
of several music teachers of this city, 
who selected for him ten of their pu
pils (unknown to Dr. Schoen) to 
whom tho tests woro given. The pu
pils represented different degrees of 
accomplishment and talent.
A report was issued for oacli pupil, 
giving Ills ratings in tho tests, and 011 
the basis of tlio tost results, a prodic
tion was made? as to tho pupils prob
able accomplishment, given proper in
struction and adequate application, in 
six factors of artistic performance 
namely: intonation, tonal quality,
shading, variety of performance, 
phrasing, tlmo and rhythm.
A blank was sont each toaclier, ask
ing for an evaluation ol! tho pupil for 
each of tho six factors. Tho results 
from the two ratings woro then com
pared, tho purpose being to soo how 
woll tho judgment ol! tho toaclier as 
to accomplishment agreed or dis
agreed with the prediction of accom
plishment as mado on tho basis of the 
tests. Each pupil was rated by Loachor and Dr. Schoen on a scalo of hind 
stops from Inferior to very superior.
Tho results woro as follows:
For Intonation thoro was complete 
agreement between touts and teacher 
for seven of the ton pupils, while for 
the other three pupil thoro was a 
disagreement to tho extent ol! ono 
grade for two of tho pupil and,,two 
grades for tho other. For the next 
ltom, tonal quality, thoro was comploto agroomont for olght of the pu(Continued 011 Pago Four.)
Guilds Will Gambol at 
Annual Hop Fri. Night
The annual gambol of tho guilds 
will bo held Friday night, February 
23, from 9 to 1 oclock, In tho Carnoglo Union.
Tickets aro 011 salo this woolc at 
two dollars Instead of two dollars and 
a half as announced last woolc In this 
paper. It Is the Idea of tho commlt
too to mako this function ono from 
which no profit accrues.
Studonts In the Division of Fine 
Arts look forward to their aristo
cratic and exclusive annual ball. Tho 
more plobian of us look forward to a 
less aristocratic and exclusive affair 
The Gambol of the Guildswhich 
all students may attend.
At the first Gambol the men wore 
overalls but this custom has been dis
continued and a plain informal dance 
substituted.
This year the music will be fur
nished by Eve Hughes Collegiate 
Eight.
The committee which has been 
working to make this the gambol of 
gambols is composed of the following 
men: Powrie, chairman; McDonald,
Rohrback, Owen Jones, and Schlllinger.
JUDGE STEFFEN 
TO BE ADVISORY 
FOOTBALL HEAD
Will Devote All September 
and Each Saturday During 
Season With Football Men 
as Supervising Coach
TO SELECT ASSISTANT
Slow but sure the football coach
ing situation is rounding itself into 
some definite shape. Up until the lat
ter part of last week Carnegie Tech 
athletic officials were anxiously await
ing the results of the conference be
tween Wally Steffen and Clarence 
Overend, President of the Council, 
and also the interview between Stef
fen and tho Cook County Illinois Bar 
Association.
The latest and final information 
came in tho form of a letter from 
Judge Steffen to Mr. Ovorend, and 
tho contents of this letter expressed 
Wallys earnest intentions to return 
to Carnogle in the fullest extent per
mitted him by the courts of Chicago. 
Ho stated that he would be granted 
time to spond all of September and 
oacli Saturday with tho squad in the 
capacity of supervising coach, pro
vided such an agreement was satis
factory to the athletic officials of Car
negie Tech.
Certainly Carnegie wants Steffen 
for as much of the time as ho can af
ford to vacate tho bench and his ju
dicial duties, to give advice and to di
rect subordinate coaching. But vir
tually football Is without a head men
tor, and tho next; step will bo tho 
finding of a man to fill Steffens shoes 
In holding up tlio attained position 
which the Plaid lias struggled for 
those last nlno yoars under the guid
ance' of Wally and by tho lighting 
imputation ho has Instilled Into his 
mon.
At a noonday gathering of tho Fittsburgh Clan In which almost, throe 
hundred Tochltos woro prosent last 
Saturday, Buddy Ovorend reviewed 
tho wiiolo athlollo situation in his 
rousing yet joy-ltllllng speechoiling 
(Continued 011 Paga Two.)
A. I. E. E. Hears Spcech 
On Power Development
Westinghouse Official Ex
plains Work in Near East
Tho regular monthly meeting of tho 
A. I. E, ID. which had beon deferrod 
wa held last Thursday hi Room 2IX, 
Science Building, President An
drew called tho meeting to order at 
8:15. After tlio regular hulue had 
beon disposed of, Professor Dotinoli 
Introduced tho spoalcOr of the even
ing, Mr. d'layes of tlio Wostlnghouso 
Electric and Manufacturing Company.
Mr. Ilayos spoke on tho subject, 
Power Development In tho Far 
East. Mr. HayoB 1b an authority on 
this subject, having traveled 52,000 
miles In tho Far East in tho past 
fifteen months, 011 behalf of tho In
terests and sales promotion of tho 
Wostlnghouso Company.
Ovor fifty slides, portraying tho 
habits, costumes, and customs of tho 
Japanoso, as woll as those showing 
purely technical material wore shown 
during tho first part of the talk. 
These slides woro collected by Mr. 
Hayes In Ills travels.
Three reela of films of Japanese 
llfo along with scenes of various 
power projects in Japan were also 
shown. Those films were loaned to 
Mi. Hayes through tho courtesy of 
one of tho larger ,1-Iydro-electrlc 
power companies of Japan.
Mr. Hayes spoke very Interestingly 
of tho possibilities of tho develop
ment of the hydro electric power pro
jects in Japan, as well as of the pro
jects already developed. At present 
Japan is producing approximately 
(Continued on Pago Three)
Imposing Gymnasium Badly Damaged 
As Sixty Mile Gale Engulfs Campus
(Copyright, 1923, by the Ivory Soap 
Company)
By T. S. Repplier.
This week has witnessed one of 
the most terrific windstorms which 
ever gripped Pittsburgh district in its 
icy grasp and then shook It, A horse 
tied to a post on Fifth avenue on 
Wednesday evening was found Thurs
day morning on top of a barn In. back 
of tho Woodlawn Club; a galloping 
80 made tho record time In from Me* 
Keos Rocks, with tho wind, and such 
was tho force of tho blast that two 
studonts who Journeyed ovor tho cut 
together were found when thoy 
reached tho other side to havo com
pletely changed clothos!
Blow Ye Wlndn, Helflh Hoi 
But tho aforowald aro as nothing 
to tho catastrophe at Carnoglo Tech 
Itself. Not the ancient Library Hut 
nor the Greek Coffee Dispensary, ndr 
yet the Sklbo Inn, woro tho victims 
of tho gale, but the splendid now gym
nasium, designed and constructed, un
aided by Architect Hornbostel and 
his corps of intrepid assistants! 
This edifice has been only recently
completed on the lot opposite the rear 
of tho Arts College, and has been 
alike the pride and amazement of 
every loyal Carnegie man. With its 
spacious barber shops, pool (room, 
howling alleys, bars, and swimming 
pools, It is the envy of every college 
In the country. To think that this 
20,000,000 dollar structure should be 
the first to collapse!
She 8tarta, She Movesi 
Early Thursday a. m. a gale arose 
which was sufficient to blow dollar 
bills out of the hands of Mr. Orbln 
quite a breeze, you will admit! Stu
donts from tho College of Industries, 
practicing Drop tho Handkerchief" 
in tho gymnasium, wero suddenly 
startled by a reporttho report that 
a wind was on the way. Still those 
intropld men went on with their 
games, and dospite tho Increased 
swaying of the side walls, paid no at
tention to tho Impending destruction, 
Suddenly there was a crack, a boom, 
a rip, closely followed by a thud!! 
When tho handkerchief players 
looked up one of the swimming pools' 
(Continued on Page Three)
\

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1923
Cingie l&rtan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie InHtltute of 
Technology under tlio upervlBlon of the Student Activities Board.___________
Entered In the Postofllce of Ilttsburgh as Hecond-clasB matter.___________
VICTOR H. STROMQUIST ..................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHlland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelophonoSchenley 9148
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................................. Associate Editor.
H. P. SIMPSON......................................................................................... Annoclato Editor .
JJ. P. DIETER..................................................................................... .-Associate Editor
MA UK S. DOWNES...............................................................................................News Editor
Telephone-Hazel 9398
FRED C. SMITH......................................................................................................Nows Editor
TelephoneHlland 8118-,T
FRED T. PHELPS..................................................................................................News Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9102
H. II. WILSON  ..............................................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneHazel 935G
R. P. HAY ........................................................................................................... Photographer
IN TE KELLER ............................................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. CO USE, ................................................................................................................Art Editor
T. S. REPPL1ER ............................................................................................ Special Writer
J. M. COOPER................................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
J. C. MAJOR....................................................................................... Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hort/.man, P. D. Rossini, W. Winning, L. D. Richards, 
A. F. Andrew, B. DoMaro, E. G. Elglo, A. E. Krogh, A. I. Isaacs, R. G. 
Kennedy.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
E. C. Frazier, J. H. Ferguson, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, II. P. Rossback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
W. B. Cunningham, T. J. DempBey, J. B. Laudig, D. Moskovit/., J. W. 
Metro, 1*. W. Reilly, II. Gibson, W. A. Jacko, P. Edie, It. L. Sandrock, B. 
Broudy, H. Urschel. _______________________
Tho Editor-in-Chief Is roaponslble for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcomes all Communications of student interost, if signed. 
Signature wili bo withhold If desired. All nows items must bo in tho student 
postolllce before 4:80 Friday.
Tartan Olllco-Room 5*A, Industries Building. Ofllce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
NO SMOKING, LADIES
There is a ruling which prohibits smoking in the Union, this fact 
is made known by signs posted where they cun be seen by the viola
tors.At a recent dance held in the Union one of the transgressors was 
a female. Being niiaceustomed to seeing such an unusual perform
ance, we wonder what was the motive prompting this young woman. 
Perhaps she wanted notoriety, maybe she was a habitual eigaret 
smoker.Whatever may have been the incentive which caused this girl 
to make herself an object of ridicule, she may be excused becausc the 
men smoke. We believe that a woman should have the stone privilege 
as a man; but at the same time can not but sympathize with the 
female individual who acquires the habit, for only the strongest will 
power cun resist tho craving for nicotine, once one is a slave.
THE DAMAGING SHORT-CUT
Wo hate to keep harping on trespassing, but it seems that there 
are some students who have no consideration for the people who try 
to improve tho looks oJ! tlio campus.
Crossing the grass from the cut to tho library hut is the most 
common act of negligence. Tho girls seem to bo tho main offenders; 
young ladies going to tho Art School and Margaret Morrison take 
this short cut vory frequently. Wo will not havo a beautiful campus 
this spring unless tho students stay oil tho grass.
CEASE THIS PRACTICE
ATI,or our voont'baskot ball victory somo studonts went about 
the vicinity and challcod tho scoro on private property. This is a 
high school practice and was probably done by somo Plobos who havo 
not been at eollego long enough to havo forgotton thoir preparatory 
school liuetioN. Whoovor was responsible for this, wo hope that they 
will cease the practice because it maltos tlio outsider antagonistic to
ward the school.
Student Calendar
AVUDNHSDAY, MimCJARY :M
T)ramn botir ll.-n.ot Flays..........................................H.-itfJ, Arts Theater
Dance in tor-Honorary ........................................- 0:00, Carnegie Union
Basket Ball -West Virginia vs. Carnegie...........Morgantown, W. Va.
ConcertMusical Clubs................................................... Orrville, Ohio
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY,22
Washington's Birthday............................................................ No Classes
Concert...Musical Clubs................................................. Cleveland, Ohio
.FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2!]
Drama...-Two 1-act Plays............................................<1:00, Arts Theater
Drama'Pour X-aet Plays..........................................8:15, Arts Theater
DanceGambol, of Guilds......................................9:00, Carnegie Union
ConcertMusical Clubs........................................................................L. ............... Cleveland, Ohio
Basket BallGrove City vs. Carnegie............................GrovoCity, Pa.
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24
Drama-Four 1-aot Plays..........................................8:15, Arts Theater
Basket BallAllegheny vs. Carnegie..............................Meadville, Pa.
ConcertMusical Clubs ........  i................ .......................Elyria, Ohio
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 25
ConcertDepartment of Music................................8:15, Arts Theater
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27 
Basket BallGeneva vs. Carnegie...............................Beaver Falls, Pa.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, MARCH 1, 2 AND 3
DramaThe Shagreen, Thomas Wood Stevens New Play.....
.................................................................................8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MARCH 9 
DanceSoph Hop...........................................................9:00, Arts Foyer
February 10, 1923. 
Mr, Victor StromqulBt.
Editor of Tho Tartan.
My dear Mr. Strornqulst: **
We members of the 'big Tech fam
ily have ratlier, groWn to take cer
tain matters for granted, and appar
ently give little thought to tho effort 
und preparation which lie In the 
background of many of the events 
that occur on our campus.
1 am wondering If we fully appre
ciate tho liberalizing influence and 
the cultural value, to ourselves and 
to tho community, of one of our col
legesthe College of Fine Arts. 
Whenever awyi public or semi-public 
event Is held in. connection with our 
institution, certain departments of 
this college are invariably called up
on to 1111 an Important part of tho 
program and their response is al
ways highly creditable.
I am moved to these thoughts by 
the memorial service held Tuosday 
afternoon of last week in. honor of 
the late Professor* Keller. At this 
service tho young people from the 
Department of Music rendered the 
"Ave Maria of Gounod with exqui
site taste and feeling and as an old 
friend of Processor Keller, I feel Im
pelled to use this means to express 
my hanks to these students and to 
aBure them thut no one would have 
appreciated their contribution moro 
than the man in whose memory the 
selection was given.
As a Tech man, permit me to say 
that 1 am very proud of tho work of 
the College of Fino Arts.
Vgry truly yours,
CHARLES C. LEEDS.
To tho Editor of The Tartan:
Lent began early this year.
On Ash Wednesday, February 14, I 
went into town to tho twenty-minute 
Lenten services at Trinity Church to 
hear BIbhop Mann and arrived there 
just ten minutes before the service 
began. I found the church packed 
mostly business menand a few 
minutes later people were standing 
all around the walls. And then next 
door I was told tho same thing was 
going on In the First Presbyterian 
Church.
I have since been wondering if 
Carnegie Tech could not also be 
made a center for Lenten services 
in tho Oakland district? It might 
be worth trying  How would it. do 
to send out invitation notices to the 
Library, the club houses and the 
shops and post office of Oakland1 dis
trict?
Tho Oakland people with the fac
ulty, their wives and the students 
that come from all four colleges 
would soon mi our Little Theater to 
standing room only" and would 
mako chapel service seem that much 
moro worthwhile.
PROFESSOR WTJRTS.
THREE SHORT PLAYS TO BE
GIVEN THIS WEEK-END
Another group of short plays will 
bo glvon this week by the Drama studonts. For Wednesday, Friday, and 
Saturday ovenings, tho following will 
ho offered: Crossod Codos, by Thom
as Wood StovoiiH, lioad of tho Carn Off I o Drama Department; An Tdyll of 
the Shops, by Kenneth Sawyor Good
man; Tho Deuth of Marlowe, by Rich
ard HonglHt Horn; and Caleb Slonos 
Death Watch, by Martin A. Flavin. A 
matinee of t.hln production is an
nounced for Friday at *1 p. m., for 
which no tlcUots will bo required.
Musical Clubs Give Third 
Entertainment This Year
Machine Production Men 
Inspect Two Large Plants
Two interesting inspection trips 
were taken by the Machine Produc
tion Juniors during the week just 
finished. On Monday, January 12, 
the party journeyed to McKees Rocks 
to visit tlio foundry of Fort. Pitt Malle
able, whllo on Thursday following 
the Wostlnghouso Air Brake plant 
was inspector. Both trips woro 
under tho personal supervision of 
Professor Dosey, whllo Mr. Sclmoffor 
of tho pattern-making department 
went along on tho Wostlnghouso trip.
Fully forty students took advantage 
of tlio opportunities offered and woro 
amply repaid for tho cold afternoons 
spent wander lug through these two 
plants.
Due to the ini\nenso, si/.o of tho 
Westlnghouso plant, eight mon were 
detailed to take tho men through the 
different departments, including the 
two iron and steel foundries, brass 
foundry, pattern shop and metal melt
ing furnace rooms.
Members of the party were allowed 
to wander much as they pleased 
through the Fort Pitt Malleable Com
pany, and as a result, it is believed 
more genuine good was derived.
Treatment in both places was as 
good as could be asked, but in the 
case of the Westinghouse plant, the 
shortness of the time was a great han
dicap.
DEAN BROWN AT Y. W. 
BOOSTS LECTURERS
The Carnegie Tech Y. W. C. A. 
meeting was held at noon on Tues
day, February 13, In the M. M. Recre
ation Hall, the novelty lying in the 
fact that eocoa and sandwiches were 
among tho important guests.
Miss Brown, tho speaker of the 
mooting, laid particular emphasis on 
Miss Maude Roydon, the English lec
turer of world-wide reputation. This 
famous woman is to bo In Pittsburgh 
at the Carnoglo Music Hall on tho 
night of March (!. All tho women of 
Tech aro urged to go to hoar her, as 
woll as tho speaker of next: wooks 
assemblyMiss Florence Jackson, it. 
is tho special doalro of Miss Brown 
that both those women should bo 
hoard by everyone who can possibly 
go.
For tho next; Y. W. mooting prepa
rations are to bo made that will cover 
all possible demands. Freshmen will 
be especially attracted to it by get
ting their lunch before ten minutes of 
one, in addition to having Y. W. at 
an hour convenient for almost ovqr.v 
girl iu school. A series of Bible study 
meetings under the leadership of Mrs. 
Bullock will begin on February 20.
Why keep that school girl complex
ion? asked the Senior as lie brushed 
off his coat lapel.The Black, and 
Magenta.
Tho combined Mandolin and Glee 
Clubs of Carnegie Tech gave tho third 
concert of the season at Now Ken
sington last Thursday evening. The 
boys were, on their toes and gave 
an extremely entertaining group of 
selections. W. Y. Reilly of the Glee 
Club made a decided hit in a Jewish 
monologue interpretation and in sing
ing Lovin Sam. Steve Kovak, 
president of the clubs rendered a vio
lin solo which the audience appre
ciated very much. Another hit was 
a - novelty number played on the car
penters saw by B. Broudy. Two spe
cial dance numbers were played by 
the Tech Novelty Orchestra which is 
composed of seven members of the 
Mandolin Club.
Thursdays concert was the last be
fore the Ohio trip which is scheduled 
for tonight. The clubs will play in 
Cleveland, Lorain, Orville and Elyria, 
returning on Sunday, February 25.
Song Book Material 
Soon in Book Form
Many Old Songs Are Re
newed. New Songs Come in
Mr. Millett Reviews 
Shillings Last Issue
Convicted of Many Wrongs 
By Erudite Analyst
Much crodit In due to the Bong hook 
committee for their work on the 
song book. Many songs have come in 
to them, and the book is fast ap
proaching tho stage at which it can 
bo put up in book form and placed 
on sale. JuBt what the price will be 
is as yet unknown, depending upon 
the coBt of printing as set by the pub
lisher, but needless to say, it will be 
sold as cheaply as poBBible to the stu
dents.
Much interest Is being shown by 
the6 alumni as well as students. Old 
songs are being recovered from the 
dusty shelves, and in cases where 
necessary are being revamped for 
present needB. The song printed be
low Is ono of these old ones, and is 
known by many of the Seniors anVl 
old timers. The Glee Club, at one 
time, sang it Jn their concerts. The 
music to accompany is arranged for 
male voices. This Bong is a manifes
tation of the work being done by the 
committee.
SING PRAISE TO ALMA MATER 
(Carnegie Tech Is Her Name) 
Words and Music by Elleninger, 17.
Over the1 Schenley bridge, 
Beckoning from the ridge,
And welcoming all 
Stands Machinery Hall.
(Yell) Boom! Boom! Zzzz Ray! Ray! 
TECH!
All sing in harmony
 For the four schools of C. I. T. 
And when you're away,
Just tell them and say,
Only onoschool! That's TECH!
Opponents please watch your step 
If youre looking for lots of pep, 
For we stand up and yell 
As if to beat H.
(Yell) Boom! Boom! ZzzzRay!Ray! 
TECH!
Enter the field of Vim.
Our team is out to win.
And when they're away,
Well kneel down and pray, 
Victory for dear old TECH.
CHORUS.
Sing praise to Alma Mater! 
CARNEGIE TECH is her name. 
Raise high your loyal voices. 
Together shout her noble fame. 
Our colors are Tartan red, 
Yellow, green and blue.
My heart is in the work,
Ah! CARNEGIE TECH so true.
BAND GAVE CONCERT 
AT VENICE, PA., FRI.
The people of Venice, Pa., were 
greatly surprised last Friday night, 
when about thirty-five Scottish High
landers entered their town and fa
vored them with a concert. This con
cert was arranged by the Band Direc
tor Sully, as lie teaches music at this 
country high school.
The Band was met at the Bridgevillo station and then thoy completed 
thoir journey by bus. On reaching 
tho high school, they were given a 
lunch by tho people of tho town al. 
tho school and following this thoy 
played a ooncert in tho Community 
High School auditorium.
Tho Hand made a great hit with tho 
Scottish costume and the music which 
they rendered.
The membors who wero present 
had a vory onjoyable tlnio and they 
created much excitement on tho train 
with thoir bare knees.
Ono week from Thursday night tlio 
Band will take a trip to Mayviow to 
give a concert. Sully urges that all 
members be presont at tho regular 
rehearsal Thursday night, in order 
that work may be started on some 
now music.
Annual Party For High 
School Seniors at M. M.
JUDGE STEFFEN TO BE
ADVISORY FOOTBALL HEAD
(Continued from Page One) 
what a dilemma they were in regard
ing tho heavy football schedule, tho 
misfortune of not having Steften per
manently, and tho outlook for a reg
ular coach. Buddy made an urgent 
plea to the studonts and alumni to 
ho patient, and hopeful that the grow
ing athletics may retain their paco 
and ho rewarded for considering oacli 
precarious problem from every anglo 
rather than be impulsive and rogrot. 
any past erroneous stops.
Present possibilities of assistant 
coaches for next fall look most favor
able toward several mon who havo 
rocotvod training under tho Stofl'on 
system, while tho bulk of tho coach
ing will be In tho hands of tho now 
mentor. Just who tills new man will 
bo is uncertain at this writing, but 
all Cariiegie may bo sure that, who
ever is selected from the vast field of 
capable candidates' whom the Athletic 
Council lias been seriously consider
ing, they will be . well satisfied.
The completed schedule will in
clude nine games, six of which will 
be played in Pittsburgh. To date 
three games are pending conditions 
subject to more definite results in the
It is ten years since I have read an 
undergraduate magazine from cover 
to cover. To the reading of the cur
rent Shilling, accordingly, I bring un
wearied eyes, but perhaps too lofty a 
notion of what undergraduate literary 
writing ought to be. I expect it to 
give through the veils of words 
glimpses of avid individualities, evi
dences of fresh responses to the in
gratiating world, and a rather steady 
avoidance of the banal and the senti
mental. Immaturity one grants, but 
honesty one demands.
In the face of these standards, and 
despite the absence of the cloying 
sentimental, the Shilling stands con
victed, primarily, of pretentiousness. 
If most of its writers were honest 
with themselves, or aware of their 
own resources, they would set them
selves less ambitious tasks than delining the size of God or discussing 
the economic basis of education. 
Where I look for simplicity and frank
ness, where I crave touch and sight 
and sound of the fascinating world, I 
grasp affectation and enormous 
words, insensitively used. There is 
more actuality in the page of Shilling 
Shockers than on many another page 
of the magazine. Let me beg the 
writers to be honest, to be simple, 
and if need be, simply and explicitly 
complex.
The contributor whose sense oi' the 
values of words seems keenest, is 
Walter Leuba, whose I Believe is the 
sustained and powerful development 
of an image that is terrifying and 
Dantesque. The phrases of his MillBtacks are often blurred, and not. yet 
sharpened into exactness. Mr. Ham
iltons Arent Husbands Funny? the 
most elaborate offering, will not, in 
the jargon of the trade, add anything 
to his already considerable reputa
tion. The situation is stale and not 
very well manipulated. The figures 
might have been sympathetically pre
sented in the manner of J. V. A. 
Weaver; instead, they are coldly 
noted automata whose slangy audac
ity creates vaudeville humors.
The critical work of Mr. Heppenstall and Miss Purdy suffers from 
their neglect of the purpose and 
method of reviewing. That Mr. Heppenstall finds such and such a pic
ture delightful is of no importance to 
any one in the world unless he tells 
us what the picture is and why It is 
deligtful. Miss Purdys reviews are 
also defective in the element of in
formation, since the substance of 
these esoteric books is not matter of 
general knowledge. She should pre
sent the substance carefully, and ex
plain the grounds of her judgment 
with all the logic at her command. 
Generalizations such as those buried 
in the three horrible closing sen
tences of the Lawrence review have 
nothing to do with the essential ques
tion, Is the Book a Good One, and if 
Not, Why? Anyones heart  and 
mindsearching answer to such a 
question would have human, if not 
aesthetic, interest.
To my mind, the editorial board of 
tho Shilling needs to re-define its pur
pose. If their Ideal is a blend of a 
campus Dial and a maidenly Puppet, 
well and good. If their standard be 
good, honest, simple writing, let them 
bo satisfied with such achievement, 
though obvious success be not the re
ward.
FRED B. MILLETT.
M. M. Piebes Hold Meeting 
To Install New Officers
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
The campus is a great melting 
pot. You are made or unmade. Your 
ideas are formed or unformed. Crys
tallization takes place eventually, 
and the crystal formed is a result of 
every influence exerted towards you 
during the life of your college days. 
These crystals must be purewith 
out flawsthat is our desire.
Looking in the matter from the 
viewpoint of school spirit, many 
have flaws.
The title of this article might be: 
What I Have Heard, but since it is 
not customary to give titles to these 
articles, it won't be done.
But why is it that it seems to be 
my lotand the lot of many others 
tooto be drawn into arguments 
and discussions on the advantages 
and disadvantages of Carnegie Tech 
policies?
Perhaps the writer may be unduly 
willing to take the opposite side in 
a discussion, but just the same, he 
is drawn into many arguments pro 
and con the policies of the schoolAnd the things lie has heard! Heav
en help the dear college! Its surely 
going to ruin! Nothing can save it 
from utter oblivion!
In other words, there are knock
ers, super-knockers, and ever-lasting 
knockers. Knockers are good if used 
with discretion. Super-knockers are 
to be watched. Ever-lasting knockers 
should be given a guide to the exit 
to be sure he doesnt miss it.
One man said to me when asked if 
he would help on a committee: Sure, 
anything I can do for the school, 
Ill be more than glad to do so.
Another man said: Ill not do a
thing for the school.
Still another said: This is the
----------- school I ever saw.
Symphony Orchestra 
Gives Free Concert
Carnegie Techs Symphony Orch
estra gave another series of public 
concerts last week at the Carnegie 
Music Hill. On Thursday and Fri
day afternoons in the Music Hall, pub
lic rehearsals were scheduled and for 
these, the students in the public 
schools were invited to attend. On 
Sunday night, residents who had been 
patiently waiting for the occasion 
ever since December 30 were given 
another opportunity to hear the com
petent group of musicians from Tech.
Through the generosity of a local 
group of music lovers, enough funds 
Avere subscribed to make possible the 
series without charge to those who 
attonded. Tickets were distributed 
for Sundays offering through the 
office of E. R. Bossange, Director of 
the Fine Arts College, and the sup
ply was exhausted in a short time.
Professor J. Vick OBrien, Head of 
tho Music Department, officiated as 
^director of the orchestra. It con
sisted of about ninety people, includ
ing the best selections of present stu
dents, former students, graduates, and 
faculty.
Opportunity to See Italy. 
During Summer Months
The American Association of Uni
versity Women are holding their an
nual party for high school senior girls 
of Pittsburgh and the vicinity in the 
Arts Theater this week. A meeting 
was held Saturday, February 17, in 
the Theater. Miss Florence Jackson, 
a leader in the placement of women 
engaged in professional pursuits, 
talked on College Training for 
Women. She was followed by Dean 
Bossange and Miss Breed, who gave 
short addreses. The Girls Glee Club 
entertained. The committee, accom
panied by twenty Freshmen from the 
College of Fine Arts and Margaret 
Morrison, were shown around the 
building and were then taken to M. 
M. where they were served with re
freshments and were again shown 
about.
On Wednesday there will be a joint 
assembly of the College of Fine Arts 
and M. M. Miss Jackson will speak 
again, this time on: Professional
Spirit. Miss Jackson is a graduate 
of Smith College and since 1910 lias 
been tho Director of the Education 
and Industrial Union in Boston, which 
places collogo in various parts of the 
country. Miss Jackson will hold in
terviews all day, Wednesday, with 
and girls interested In employment 
for tho coming summer vacation in 
all parts of tho country. Miss Jack
son will be glad to havo a talk with 
anyone interested, in Dean Brown*:? 
office where sho will bo all day Wed
nesday.
coaching proposition. As tho schedule 
( stands, the Tartan grid men will play 
Theii College here, W. & J. at Little 
Washington, Pitt at Forbes Field, Le
high here, University of Detroit at 
Detroit, and Notre Dame at Forbes 
Field.
FOUNDAbout two weeks ago 
ladys ring. Left in Rest Room in 
Central Buildinfg. Inquire at Dean 
Tarbell's Office.
On Friday, tho sixteenth, the M. M. 
Freshmen had an honest-to-goodness 
get-together meeting in the M. M. 
Recreation Hall. In some unknown 
way the Gazette Times got word of 
the affair and sent their press photog
raphers to do their work. Hence, the 
committee in charge has been seen in 
black and white by some of their fel
low students. .
Entertainment for the meeting was. 
afforded by Mary Quick and Mary 
Dale, and a one-act comedy The 
Gathering of the Nuts wras present
ed by Alma Putcher, Frances Tal
bott, Mary Quick, Helen Eyster, and 
Beryl Rankin. Dancing and the serv
ing of refreshments followed.
This party was held in conjunction 
with the installation of the newly 
elected officers and class advisors. 
Mary Dale was elected vice president 
to fill the vacancy left by the resig
nation of Margaret Nelson, and Nora 
Willets was elected secretary to fill 
that left by Sara Williams. Mrs. 
iSipencer was elected class sponsor. 
Cheers were given for the new offi
cers and an arm-bouquet of American 
Beauties artistically arranged in a 
setting of silver gray Pussy Willows, 
was presented to Mrs. Spencer.
The committee in charge consisted 
of Mini Cunningham, chairman; Bar
bara White, Margaret Carson, Nora 
Willets, Mary Davenport, Martha Lanade, Margaret Calvert, and Betty 
Gordon.
Girls Glee Club Sings 
At A.A.U.W. Party Sat]
Tho Girls Glee Club took part in 
tho entertainment given by Dean 
Brood and Dean Brown, under the 
auspices of tho American Organiza
tion of University Women, Saturday 
afternoon at the Little Theater for 
the Seniors of tlio various high 
schools In the Pittsburgh district. 
They sang Dreaming and Dear Old 
Tech, and Miss Bernice Reaty sang 
The Little Red School House, all 
of which were well received.
LOST'Pair of spectacles, without 
case, between Industries Building 
and Forbes street, on February 15. 
Finder please return to Receiving 
Room, C. I. T.
Mr. Paul D. Cravatli, president of 
the Italy America Society, announced 
today that a group of American col
lege students and instructors is being 
organized to travel in Italy next sum
mer under the joint auspices of the 
Italy America Society and the Insti
tute of International Education. The 
announcement stated that the pur
pose of the undertaking is to furnish 
an opportunity for American college 
and university students to study, un
der scholarly guidance and instruc
tion, the monuments of Ancient 
Rome, the vast cultural arid artistic 
bequests of Renaissance Italy, and the 
social, industrial and commercial life 
of the Italy of today.
The students will sail from New 
York on the S. S. Saxonia on June 
30tli, 1923. After landing at Cher
bourg, they will traverse France and 
Switzerland, and enter Italy through 
the Italian Lake District. They will 
visit the great industrial plants near 
Genoa and Turin, and then will travel 
southward to Rome, Naples and its 
environs, the hill-towns of Perugia and 
Assisi, Florence, Bologna, Ravenna, 
Venice, the Italian battlefields in the 
Dolomites, the redeemed city of Tren
to, and Milan. They will return to 
this country on September 4th.
The faculty will include Dr. An
gelo Lipari of the Department of Ro
mance Languages at the University 
of Wisconsin, as lecturer on Modern 
Italy and as instructor in the Italian 
language; Professor Edward B. T. 
Spencer, six years a resident in Rome 
and now professor at Grinnell Col
lege, as lecturer on Ancient Rome and 
classic art; Joseph I-Hipkinson Smith 
of the Friends iSclioc^ Brooklyn, as 
lecturer on Italian Medieval history, 
and other members of college and 
university faculties.'
And still another said: Why di&i
I ever start at this school?
And so on it goesforever making, 
itself heardforcing itself upon the 
ears of those thinking oppositely 
making the utterer a general nuis
ance and hindrance to the futureprogress of the school.
But the gist of the matter is this: 
They exist. By their very existenceis proven the fact that there might, 
be some excuse for it. Very fewideas are arrived at without some
thing to work towards that ideasome influencing thought, action, or 
event.
There is such a thing as open.- 
door policy and its opposite closeddoor policy!!
Does it ever occur that theremight be a great lack of information?" 
that too many things are carriedon behind closed doors?
There are many things that tend 
to produce such thinking. This is 
one of them. They dont knowthey 
dont have the informationthere
fore, they dont understand.
Still, there might be a few peopleon the opposite side, who really give 
reasons for such contrary thoughts.
This article is an appeal to you. 
who knock to get information, and 
then, if you want to knock, do itr 
but only then.
Yours for a distribution of infor
mation, and therefore a better CAR
NEGIE TECH UNITY.
>^7
LINES FROM
Famous Liberals
Whatever makes men good 
Christians makes them good 
citizens.Daniel Webster.
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor
Start the | 
Week Right I
,
Church on Sunday  
puts new pep into Monday, Tuesday, Wednes- | 
day-till Sunday comes  
again. Try it and see. ;i;
xOakland Methodist | 
Church |
FORBES AND A 
BOQUET
Fifty steps from the | 
campus x
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class .............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ...................... 7:00 P.M.
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
R-A-D-l-0 
RACO Crystal Detector Sets,
complete ....................................$12.50
$3.00 Lightning Protectors... 2.75 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY CO. 
4521 FORBES ST., Near Craig St. 
Edison Mazda Lamps. 
Electrical Supplies.
Elkton
NOT so many years ago 
(when some of us 
ourselvs wer under
graduates) the collej student 
was a hoodlum. Today hes as 
conservativ as can bebut 
with definite expression of 
his individuality none the less. 
Witness, John Ward Shoes. 
They ar made to meet the 
tastes of collej men: dignified, 
but carrying a note of real 
distinction.
The John Ward representadv 
displays in
R-HOA-YDODAC 
GUIMBIL FS
--Shoes
Stores in NewYork.Brooklyn, Newark 
Phila.- Address for Mail Orders ill Duane strecc-NewYork City
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the quality 
and service.A. W- Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smlthfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United StateB or Canada.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Carnegie Drops Game 
to Georgetown, 41-25
Anderson and Donahue Star 
in Hill-Toppers Gym.
Last Friday night Carnegie Techs 
fighting basket ball team, lost a hardfought battle to Georgetown Univer
sity by a score of 41 to 25. The 
game was played in the old Hill 
Top Gym before a large crowd of 
Georgetown rooters. Georgetown has 
a reputation of being practically un
conquerable on their home floor. And 
tbe score is not a true indication of 
the great fight which our team put 
forth.
To quote a Washington newspaper, 
In Anderson and Donahue the visi
tors showed two exceptionally cap
able forwards. Both were fast as 
lightning and in the game all the 
time. The former showed some won
derful basket shooting, all four of his 
ringers being long ones which passed 
through the net without even touch
ing the rim,
The Hill Toppers showed wonder
ful ability at guarding. In Florence, 
one of their forwards, they had a man 
who simply could not miss the 
basket.- He rung up a total of eight 
goals. from scrimmage. The George
town - aggregation wcs as a whole 
very much heavier than the Tartan 
quintet. In spite of their weight 
they proved to be a very fast and 
capable team in all departments of 
the game.
. At several times during the first 
half the score was very close. But 
later on the Hill Toppers took a 
spurt resulting in a lead which the 
Skibo five was unable to surmount. 
The game was exceptionally fast 
from start to finish and was far 
from, being a wallt-away: . Carnegie 
Tech put up a fight of which the 
student body can be justly proud. 
And to lose to a team such as
Georgetowns in a game so hotly con
tested is far from humiliation.
Mohrman and Gibson gave their
usual display oC talented guarding 
Anderson, though suffering from the 
loss of an eye tooth, was yet able 
to see the basket for seven out of 
eight fouls and four field goals. 
Dosey capably filled the position of 
center which had been left open 
by the ineligibility of Mefort.
The lineup:
Georgetown41. Georgetown25.
Flavin ....................F.......... Anderson
Florence ...............F. Donahue
OKeefe .................C.......................... Dosey
Zazzali ....................G........................ Gibson
Carney ...................G....... Mohrman
Substitutions'Byrne for O'Keefe, 
Sweeney for1 Flavin, Rick in for Flor
ence, Logan for Zazzali, Slane for 
Carney, Joyce for Byrne, Motter for 
Donahue, Goodwin for Dosey, Dona
hue for Motter, Temmell for Goodwir, Goodwin for Temmel, Motter for 
Donahue; Temmel for Goodwin. 
Field goalsFlavin j* Florence 8, 
OKeefe 3, Zazzali 2, 'Carney, Byrne, 
Anderson 4, Donahue 2, Gibson 3, 
Foul goalsZazzali, 7 out of 9: An
derson, 7 out of 8; Dorsey, none out 
of 2. Time of halves20 minutes. 
RefereeMetzler. UmpireJ. Colliflowei.
At the recent meeting of the Amer
ican Society of Heating and Venti
lating Engineers in Washington, D. 
C., Mr. Dibble was elected to repre
sent the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology on the National Council of 
this organization, and also a member 
of the Committee of the Research 
Laboratory.
The Tartans
Dance Orchestra
Hazel 2246
Carnegie Lassies Lose to 
Indiana Normal Co-eds
Last Friday evening the Indiana 
Normal girls varsity basket ball 
team defeated the Carnegie Tech 
lassies in a fast and spirited game by 
a' 15-9 score. The game was closer 
and much more interesting than the 
score would seem to indicate, for the 
Tartan girls fought hard throughout, 
and it was only the exceptionally 
clever playing of Miss Tenneut of In
diana that finally carried her team 
through to victory. She scored thir
teen of her teams total of fifteen 
points, nine of these markers coming 
through the free throw route. Her 
ability at the foul line was the best 
seen on the Carnegie Tech floor yet, 
among the girls. Her field shots were 
quite often of the hard luck variety, 
many of them rolling around the rim of 
the basket only to fall over the side. 
The close guarding of DeVore and 
Winters of Indiana did much to keep 
the Carnegie sharp-shooters from 
ringing up points.
For Carnegie Tech, Dorothy Cook 
played well, and with much less effi
cient guarding than that exhibited by 
Indiana would have fared much bet
ter. But, withal, she plainly showed 
a lack of practice as many of her, 
shots went wild. The whole team 
showed this lack of practicewhether 
or not their inability to ring goals 
was due to this or to the exceptional 
good playing of Indiana, only time 
will tell.
The first half ended 8-7 in favor of 
Indiana, and in this part of the game 
the Tartan girls really outplayed choir 
opponents. They rung up two field 
goals to one for Indiana, who gained 
their lead through the accuracy cf 
Miss Tennent at the foul line. In the 
second half though, the embryo teach
ers ran wild, scoring seven points to 
Carnegies two.
The lineup:
Carnegie Tech9. Inoliana Normal15.
Dorothy Cook .:.. F............... Tennent
Helen Sloan ............F.............. Cunneen
Beryl Rankin ....C.................. McNulty
Geraldine
Corbitt ................S.C.................... Maust
Helen Lloyd .............G................... DeVore
Margaret Markey G.................. Winters
SubstitutionsMarkey for Rankin, 
Craver for Markey. Field goals 
Cook 2, Tennent 2, Cunneen. Fouls 
Cook, 4 out of 15; Tennent, 9 out of 
19; Sloan, 0 out of 1. Time of periods 
20-minute halves. RefereeDutney 
(Pitt).
On the Plaid Screen
By H. H. WILSON
News On Tennis Outlook 
and Hints For a Golf Team
Hear the Brox Sisters
the hit of the Musi- Box Revue* 
sing
BRING ON THE 
PEPPER
A spicy bit from the biggest 
show hit of years. Bennie 
Kruegers Famous Orchestra 
adds a full Jazz Band intro
duction. Like all Brunswick 
Records, it is a true reproduc
tion  crystal clear; every 
word plain, not a note missed 
or slurred. Good as going to 
the show. Come on Home, 
another Brox Sisters* hit, is 
on the other side.
Which of the spring sports will take 
the place of baseball at Carnegie and 
how will the appropriation that has 
heretofore been spent on the baseball 
be divided among the two or three 
sports? The fact that Carnegie will 
not have a baseball team this spring 
has brought these two questions into 
play, and the more interested the stu
dent body becomes in the athletic af
fairs all the sooner will their own 
college advance in. any special depart
ment of athletics to which emphasis 
is placed. J
The article on track will give the 
reader all the up-to-date information 
and personals of that sport.
Other colleges in this district are 
counting on having a varsity golf 
team. Last year Pitt held a univer
sity tournament and sufficient interest 
was shown that this year the promot
ers will attempt regular practice on 
the Sclienley Park course in prepara
tion for any dual meets that may be 
secured. Why can not some energetic 
Carnegie promoter of golf talk-up golf 
and the prospects, for its develop
ment? The Schenley links are L-pen 
to the public and since they are so 
handy, it seems a crime not to take 
more advantage of the opportunity.
Carnegie looks forward to tennis 
as the one encouraging sport that is 
sure to replace baseball, or at least 
capture the interest of the majority 
of the fans during the long spring 
afternoons. Coach Garland will have 
his net men at indoor practice within 
the next few weeks and the men 
themselves are very anxious to see 
how well their racquets withstand a 
new siege of volleying and chop 
strokes after having been in frames 
for several months during the winter. 
Manager Kreisle has the schedule al
most completed and it will include 
many of the leading colleges in cen
tral United States. Two trips have 
been arrangedone to extend east as 
far as the coast and the other to in
clude the territory between Pitts
burgh and Chicago. The features of 
Campus Week would never be com
plete without several matches, and .co 
various college teams have been chal
lenged to meet the 1923 varsity on 
the home courts for each day during 
the festivities.
Plans for the gymnasium were ap
proved at a special meeting of the 
Committee of Trustees on the Insti
tute of Technology, January 30. Bids 
on the building will be asked for 
about the middle of February.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
*
*
*
LOOKING AHEAD
Speculating and day-dreaming as we do sometimes, we often wonder if 
others have the same visions that we do. We read stories of the plans 
for great athletic stadiums at other institutions and then we begin to see 
things. Our imaginative mind pictures the present Tech Field marvelously 
transformed. We see a huge stadium stretching from the shadows of Maggie 
Murpli along beneath the brow of Mellon Annex and thence to Forbes street, 
where a spacious entrance bids welcome to supporters of the Plaid. As the 
vision clears we observe great concrete stands Hanking the sides of the hol
low, a football field that is not crowded for room, another field for the fol
lowers of that great American pastime, baseball, and circling these the dim 
outline of a quarter mile cinder track. Beneath the stands, we can see a 
board track which will bring joy to the hearts of Carnegie runners and their 
coaches when the cold, wintry winds blow across from Pitt on the other hill. 
The old field house has disappeared and instead we have the Carnegie 
Bowl of the future. -
Perhaps this is nothing but an idle dream, but still we have heard that 
there is such a thing as a stadium committee. The institution is still young 
in years and traditions, but some day as a Carnegie alumnus we hope to do 
our bit towards making our dream come true.
MORE DEFEATS
This seemed to be an off week again, for the Plaid colors were forced to 
bow three times to opposing teams. The varsity tossers dropped two on 
their trip while the girls had to suffer defeat at the hands of the Indiana 
Normal girls.
Minus the services of Mefort, who has become ineligible, the varsity was 
no doubt somewhat handicapped, and meeting such strong teams as they 
did and on foreign floors, perhaps there is some excuse for being on the 
short end of the scores. However, next week will bring forth a crucial test 
for Lubics tossers when they meet West Virginia, Grove City and Allegheny 
away from home. The Skibos hold victories over each of these and natur
ally these teams will be out for revenge. Particularly will Grove City try 
to make amends for their disastrous downfall at the hands of the Tartans.
INTER-FRATERNITY BASKET BALL
A point has now been reached in the schedules of the Inter-fraternity 
Leagues, where the probable winners are beginning to show themselves as 
the leaders in their respective leagues. But upsets are always happening, 
and such may be the case with these leaders if they fail to grasp the se
riousness of the final games.
The interest and attitude of the fraternities and dormitories has with a 
few exceptions been of a fine, sportsman-like type. One of the dormitories 
evidently lacked the spirit to put out a team while some of the other teams 
and their supporters take pleasure in razzing the officials. These officials 
are doing their best with but a small compensation for their services. It 
only works to a teams disadvantage to razz them as we have observed on 
more than one occasion. What these officials are trying to get is fair, clean 
playing and were behind Moses, Fink and Nicliol in their sustained efforts.
Cold Weather Delays 
Beelers Track Plans
Letter From Record Holder 
Shows Alumni Interest
A letter came to the editor of the 
Carnegie Tartan last week from an 
old grad who evidently reads his Tar
tan and retains his interest in his 
Alma Mater. The name signed to the 
letter is tliat or Carl E. Hemmann, 
Industries 17, who calls our attention 
to a statement in one of the athletic 
stories, which held that this year is 
the first time that the track team has 
held indoor winter training.
Mr. Hemmann says iq part: "If
you will please look over your back 
files for 1914, 1915 and 1916 you will 
find Carnegie Tech was represente, 
by indoor teams that competed in the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
games. Press meets and Middle At
lantic A. A. U. championship meets 
held in the old Duquesne Gardens. 
These teams were coached by G. <y. 
Dull of Michigan and the relay team 
of 1916, though defeated by Penn 
State, defeated Pitt and the Carlisle 
Indians/
Mr. Hemmann was an athlete him
self; he continues: "I was on the In
door and outdoor team for three 
years, and to the best of my knowl
edge I still hold the 440-yard dash 
record of 50 3/5 seconds made in 1916 
in the Carnegie Tech-Pitt dual meet.
This letter is not only interesting 
history, but is also a well deserved 
rebuke. The only reply we can make 
is to admit that the writer of the dis
puted article was not on his toes.
The cold weather of last week has 
served to delay the training plans' of 
Coach Beeler and Captain Brum
baugh. Little practice was held, the 
chief activity around the track room 
being on the part of the managers 
who gave out equipment and attended 
to many details connected with the 
opening of the track training period.
When the cold snap is over the 100 
candidates- mentioned in the last is
sue of the Carnegie Tartan will be ex
pected to show themselves. Until 
then, the chief sport around the track 
room is the indoor sport of keeping 
warm.
FIFTY PRESENT AT
DINNER OF A. S. I. E.
(Continued From Page One) 
classes is eligible for membership in 
the American Society of Industrial 
Engineers. At present there is a de
plorable lack of interest on the part 
of the Sophomore class toward this 
society, the writer noticing only about 
seven members at last Wednesdays 
dinner.
Rifle Team Will Shoot
With Colgate On Mar. 3
The rifle team will shoot a prone 
match with Colgate University during 
the week ending March 3. A number 
of new men who have not shot with 
the rifle team will be given an oppor
tunity to shoot in this match. Try
outs are still being held and consid
eration will be given any member of 
the club who shows improvement in 
his shooting since the beginning of 
the season.
Members of the rifle team should 
report on the range any time during 
this week when the range is open and 
cast their ballots for the election of 
a captain. Practice will be held nt 
the regular time throughout this 
week.
A. I. E. E. HEARS ADDRESS
ON POWER DEVELOPMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
600,000 kilowatts of electricity with 
water power. Water power for' pro
ducing 7,000,000 kilowatts is avail
able in Japan. Of this the power to 
produce 5,000,000 kilowatts is readily 
available. Of this 5,000,000, approxi
mately 600,000 kilowatts arei being 
produced. Plans are laid to produce 
2,000,000 kilowatts at the end of live 
years, as the demand for power far 
exceeds the present supply. This 
power is conducted on lines of 155,000 
and 66,000 volts for distances of 50 
to 300 miles.
The rates charged for this current 
compares favorably with the rates 
charged in America. Nearly all the 
current produced is used for power 
purposes and lighting. An extensive 
field for the sale of electrical appli
ances of all kinds will be opened 
when the full extension of available 
power will be made in the next five 
years.
INDUSTRIES AND SCIENCE
FROSH TO BE MERGED
(Continued From Page One.) 
Chemistry, Drawing and Descriptive 
Geometry from ten to nine, and P. T. 
Hygione. and 'Shops will remain un
changed.
To compensate for the reduction a 
nine unit course of Industrial His
tory has been added. The present 
Industries course will be modified to 
coincide with this.
Occasional difficulties and a little 
confusion will probably arise at first 
but with the simplification obtained 
by this course, matters will soon be 
running with even more' than the ac
customed smoothness.
Mr. T. W. Griffiths, of"the Depart
ment of Mathematics, has resigned 
his position to accept a place as buy
er of bonds for a brokerage firm in 
Minneapolis.
STANDING OF THE LEAGUES
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Iota Sigma Delta ................................................................................................................ 1.000
Kappa Sigma Rho ...................................................................................................................
Beta Theta Pi ....................................................................................................................... -G66
Scobell Hall ...................................................................................................................................600
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ..............................................................................................................400
Delta Epsilon Omega ...........................................'.................................................................333
Delta Phi Delta .........................................................................................................................000
Sigma Epsilon Phi ..................................................................................................................000
/ ______________
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Sigma Nu ................................................................................................................................ 1.000
Pi Kappa Alpha ..........................................................................,.....................................750
Boss -Hall ................................................................................................................................ -000
Woodlawn Club .........................................................................................................................500
Tau Gamma Phi ........................................................................................................... *500
Delta Upsilon .....................................................'................................................................ *400
Delta Mu .........................................................................................................................................400
McGill Hall .................................................................................................................................000
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Xi Sigma Upsilon ................................................................................................................ 1.000
Beta Sigma Rho .................................................................................................................. 1.000
Theta Xi ........................................................................................................................................500
Welsh Hall ......................................................................................................,..........................333
Square and Compass Club ........................................................................j-........................250
Kappa Sigma ...................................................................................................]..........................000
Henderson Hall ...........................................................................................:..........................000
VARSITY TOSSERS Varsity Loses Slow Game 
ON FOREIGN FLOORS To CathoIic University
West Virginia, Grove City, 
Allegheny, and Geneva 
to Be Played
Basket ball practice during the last 
two days has been stivnuous work 
for botu the players and the coach, 
since they fully realize what a big 
job the<y will have facing West Vir
ginia at Morgautown tonight, Grove 
City at Grove City on Friday, Alle
gheny at Meadville on Saturday, and j 
Geneva at Beaver Falls next Tuesday.
Out of the seven remaining games 
on the varsity schedule, the first four 
will be played on foreign floors and 
the last throe at home in the Flold 
House.
Conch Lubic and his squad re
turned from their Eastern two-game 
trip somewhat disheartened from the 
two decisive defeats at the high point 
of th'e season, but this morning 
when the Skibo cagers left for Mor
gantown, one would be conviuced that 
they had been injected with some 
go-get-em dope by their mentor or 
possibly by Doc Munliall. At any 
rate the boys piled onto the train 
like so many dough boys going over 
the top, and just as the clim-chu 
pulled out, Acting Captain Jimmie 
Anderson expressed the combined de
termination of his gang in words 
that they had to win from the 
(Mountaineers.
Tho West Virginia team, coached 
by StadvoWl, a former University of 
Minnesota star, has beon victorious 
in the majority of the games on their 
heavy schedule. With such men as 
Captain Bowers, Fred Funk, Hawley 
and Pierre Hill at their best, a hot 
contest is promised the 'Scotch lads 
from Carnegio who captured a 29 to
28 game from them one month ago.
Every loyal Carnegie girl or fol
low would willingly go to classes 
on Washingtons birthday, tomorrow 
if in return they bo permitted to fol
low their floor team nnd givo them 
support at Grove City tho following 
day. Remember last years results 
the Plaid trimmed tho Crimson in 
their only loss of tho reason, thon 
Coach Bob Thorns proteges turned 
tho tricks on tho ^Tartan Highlanders 
in a return gamo. As a vosult. of 
superior team work, strengthened by 
the efforts of Anderson, Donahue and 
Mefort, the yollow-Jorseys eloudodirnder tho Grovo City) passers by a
29 to 18 score, for their first, defeat 
after winning from Pitt, West Vir
ginia and sixteen other strong teams 
from this section. Grovo City boasts 
of Smith, Fleming and-I-Iartman to 
do their best work.
On account of strict eligibility, 
Wayne? Mefort was forced to 
glvo up basket ball. Mefort will bo 
missed, for lie had boon showing 
promise as a center whoso jump 
could bo depended upon and whoso 
floor work gave proof of much im
provement over his oarllor possibil
ities.
Count on tile Alloghony gamo as 
being much more stubborn than tho 
previous gamo in which tho Skibo 
five outclassed tholr rivals by four
teen points. Qibson, tho fleet-footed 
guard for Carnoglo, tallied flvo field 
goals as part of his contribution to
ward tho victory. Captain Mlllor 
and Ross, Alloghony lights, seem to 
bo coming into oaslor reach of tho 
basket, while Brownell Is an excep
tional good guard for tho Meadville 
quintet.
Genova nosed the Carnegie engi
neers out of a aliard-fought gamo 
early in the season and with this 
reverso in mind, tho Covenantors 
need' feel worried about the outcome 
of tho game, for Matter and Mohr
man, two Plaid men, are anxiously 
waiting their opportunity to display 
some real cage work. Miller will 
probably jump center against Wildo, 
a fast center whom Coach McCarter 
has used consistently. Regardless of 
which position Miller will play, he 
will account for himself most cred
itably wherever placed. Cap Dosey 
is back and holding down Mefort's old 
job at center for the Skibo colors. 
Dosey is a veteran of two seasons 
and can be relied upon to net his 
share of baskets once he locates it, 
and he generally does.
The Plebes will play all four of 
their final games away from the 
campusthe first one to be staged 
with California Normal, there, on 
Friday, and the second with Braddock High School at Braddock, next 
Tuesday. The only games that re
main to attract the seeker of the 
sport v/ill be the Inter-Fraternity-Dormirory League scrimmages in the 
Langley Lab gymnasium almost every 
school night.
The Carnegio Tech basket ball 
commenced its disastrous trip 
through the region of the Nation's 
Capital by losing to Catholic Uuivorsitiy) on Thursday night. Tho game 
was compartively slow and unspec
tacular and ended with a 34 to 21 
victory for tho home team.
On account of casualties indicted 
by the examinations several of the 
first string men were not permitted 
to travel along with the rest of the 
bunch. The most, important' change 
was the appearance of Cap Dosey at 
tho center position. I-Ie performed 
well until ho was relieved by Good
win in tho last quarter. Tho lanky 
erstwhile forward shot tsvo goals 
from the field.
Tho contest was featured by a gen 
eral lack of speed and pep. Few fouls 
wore made on either side, Acting 
Captain Anderson making good on 
most of his chances at froo throws. 
The score at tho end of the half was 
14 to 10, with tho Catholic boys lead
ing.
The game was closo until the last 
few minutes of play, when the Wash
ington lads opened up a little speed 
and sent tho sphere through tho hoop 
enough times to win by ten points.
Dosey, Anderson and Donahue wero 
probably the outstanding stars from 
tho Carnegie point of viow. Of these, 
Anderson was tho only one to remain 
In the entire game. Dosey was re
lieved in the last quarter by Good
win, and Donaliuo was displaced by 
Midge Matter. Both of these men 
performed well. Tho work of Mohr
man at guard should also bo men
tioned as being of high quality.
Games Played Last Week 
Change League Standings
Scores of games played last week 
are as follows:
National Leaguo.
Ioia Sigma Delta 21, Kappa Sigma 
Rho 11.
Iota Sigma Delta 23, Scobol 
Hall 4.
Beta Theta PI 17, Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon 11.
Kappa Sigma Rho nnd Delta Epsil
on Omega1, postponed,
Dolta Phi Dolta and Sigma Epsilon 
Phi, postponed,
American Longue.
Sigma Nu 34, Dolta Upsilon 13. 
McGill Mull, fovColted to Delia Mu. 
Boss I-Iall 25, Woodlawn Club 18. 
PI Kappa Alpha 22, Tau Gamma 
Phi 10.
BOB WADDELL, SECRETARY
BUCKNELL STADIUM COMM.
Our former assistant football and 
basket ball coach, Bob Waddell, Is 
now secretary of the Bucknoll Uni
versity Stadium Committee. Wad
dell resigned as coach at this Insti
tution at the close of the football 
season last year, and Immediately 
started working to raise money for 
his Alrna Maters new stadium.
Tho campaign will officially open 
this week and Waddell will be in 
charge of the Western Pennsylvania 
District. He has appointed a chair
man for each county and It is hoped 
every Bucknell alumnus can be 
reached during the campaign- which 
will last the entire week.
LOSTFrom Dean Tarbells Office, 
an envelope containing valuable 
kodak pictures. Reward if returned 
to Miss Bird, office of the Dean.
Fedorali Lea,,23N
Squaro and Compass Club 14, Hondorson Hall 11.
Beta Sltrma Rho 17, Wolsh Hall 15. 
Theta XI and Kappa Sigma, post
poned.
MUSICAL CLUBS
NOW READY FOR
EXTENDED TRIP
(Continued from Pago One)
Tho return trip -will bo mado Sunday.
Tho following program will bo 
glvon by tho club on thin trip:
X. Alma Mater.............r. Vick OBrlon
Ensomblo
2. Invlctus .........................Bruno Ilulin
G1 oe Club
3. On tho Square -----Frank Panolla
Mandolin Club
4. Vocnl Solo
5. The Bells of Shandon..................
.................................... George B. Nevln
Gloe Club
6. Collo Solo
S. H. Blackmoro
7. Wedding Song.. .Richard Kountz 
Inscribed to Carnegio Glee Club
and Edward P. Riehl, Director
8. Idilio .............................Thomas Lack
9. (a) Elfman -----S. Archer Gibson
Mandolin Club 
(b) Go long MuIe.W. IT. Dickson
10. Kavanah ...........................................
.......................Frederick Field Bullard
Glee Club
11. La Polona . ................C. Yradler
Mandolin Club
12. (a) Ashes of Roses......................
................................ Clarence < Robinson
(b) I Love a Cottage..................
.................................... Goeffrey OHara
Glee Club
13. Specialties
14. (a) A Quartette Rehearsal....
...................................... Geoffrey OHara
(b) Castastrophe. N. B. SpragUo
(c) Ford Song .................A Flivver
Gleo Club
15. Popular Airs of the Day...........
.................... Tech Novelty Orchestra
16. Quartette .
Messrs. Murphy, Dixon, Gumbert, 
Brockett
17. Dear Old Tech___Jack Cameron
Ensemble
Finis
,The following men were chosen nt 
the regular rehearsal Sunday to take 
the trip:
Mandolin ClubOlsen, Vogt, P, A. 
Putt, Barvoetfl, Mlllor, Coswlrl, Sonnemnn, S. IT. Blackmoro, Funkhauser, A. D. Clark, Foster, Kovaek, 
BJttler, Olsen, Sklpp, Wendlandt, Ly
man, Kiodol, Bonsman, Droudy and 
Jeffry. Alternate are Wldom, Sack, 
f filler, Armstrong, Sturrock and 
Plante.
Glee ClubUpplebaum, Murphy, 
Johnson, Karsh, IVagrier, Dixon, Cun
ningham, Cutting, Wadoll, Wltmor, 
Brockett, Omnbert, Bowles, Reilly, 
Buchhelt, Horne, Langley, Bahr, 
Squires, and Yowger,
Plebe Five Noses Out 
Indiana Normal Team
Amans Drops Deciding' Tally 
Final Scorej22-19 j;:__^
Playing a return game at Indians; 
Normal last Saturday night tho 
tun Plobos under tho leadership oC 
Coach Beeler trimmed tho Indiana 
Normal quintet, 22 to 19. The 
was fast and hard-fought, the- scow 
standing nt IS) to 1'8 In favor at Iitr 
diana Normal one minute before* Clto 
end of tho game.
The Plobos Showed a sudden spurt 
and with Tools Ar uns cagiug a V3.DAX 
one from the mi'die of the ITocr 
they came through with another vic
tory tied to their bolls. Amans, asis usually tho case, was tho shitting: 
light for the Plaid Plobos white 
Young did some timely work for In
diana Normal.
The lineup:
Indiana19. Tech Plebes2.
Yeung ....................F..................... Amans
Oberman ...............F......................... rteiter
Sladden .................C........................ Cook.
Brady. ......................G......................... Beedo
Campsey. ................G................... Jacksost
SubstitutionsSmith for Amans. 
Edie for Reiter, Oswald for Omermart. Field goalsAmans 3, Reiter 
2, Cook, Young 3, Oberman 2, Slafi 
den 2, Brady. Foul goalsJackses. 
10 out of 12; Young, 3 out oE 3. 
RefereeLevine.
IMPOSING GYMNASIUM BADLY 
DAMAGED AS SIXTY MILE
GALE ENGULFS CAMPUS
(Continued From Pago 0^9 ^ 
had been completely blown thrown 
a side wall. Just think of that, mr 
dears! But listen further to Unci 
Wigglly.
McKeesport Ahoy!
Roports soon began coming in over 
tho wire as to tho whereabouts of.1 
tho swimming pool. At 9:15 a. nrNorth Braddock tolographed that, it 
large body of water entiroly sur
rounded by concrete walls had passed! 
overhead procoodlng duo South. At 
10:10 McKeesport phoned saying that 
In passing ovorhoad tho swimming* 
pool had boon overturned, and tho 
town was now .struggling under four 
foot of wafer. Horror upon horror!
The Fatal Error.
Spaco will not permit u to pvdnt 
out tho Tull dotalls of tho story. Sutflco it to nay, that full meamnro or 
condemnation should go to Mr. Hontbontols forco of artless archltect.- 
Altho wo do not commit ountolvurc 
upon thin point, It. Is rumored that. Mr. 
Robert Schmortz, a graduate of 
Department of Architecture In cahvnluting tho resistance of tho swim
ming pool, mistook a fly pock In tfto.. 
figures for a decimal point.
DR. BARTO VISITS SOME
NEARBY HIGH SCHOOLS.
(Continued From Pago One) 
logo oduontlon, particularly the 
splioro of oducatlon covered by our 
own school.
Last week ho completed a tour of 
Eastern Pennsylvania whore he vlflII,od the high schools of Lnnmntor,. 
York, Tyrone, Ilariisburg, AUooiiftJohnstown, and Lalrobo. This wookn. 
Itinerary will cover tho Erie district 
of Northwestern Pennsylvania.
At tho conclusion of his visits for 
tho curront year, Dr, Hn.rto will hnve,. 
visited the principal high school or 
Ponnsylvalila, Ohio, West ViTglnm.. 
and 'Southern New York. This la tho 
first work of this kind which th,- 
school has over attomptod and, ir 
fruitful of results, this plan of keep
ing in close touch with the sources: 
from which the majority of our stu
dents eomo will bo extended so- nr, 
to Includo a larger iorrHoTy.
Students wanting a typewriter for 
home and school should see the Rem
ington Portable with Standard Key
board at Singers Pen and Gift Shop, 
Jenkins Arcade.
INDUS
1PWWY2C G9AKK3DYO8e
ond at*har Motal Pencil
"HE name VENUS isyour 
. guarantee of perfection. 
Absolutely crumble-proo 
smooth and perfectly graded. 
7 DEGREES2B ooft C- black H med. liard 
B soft 2IT Imrd
F firm, 4IT extra hard
HB mediumfor general use 
J5- per tube of Jj I-ntisj .$J.50 per dozen tube 
IfyourdcalcrcannotsuppIyyo.iwriteiM.
American Lead Pencil Go.
215 Fifth Avc., Dept. , NowYotfc 
Aik us tiboiit /lie niw 
VENUS EVERPOINTED PENCILS
Courteous clerks v/ho 
know every lane of travel 
tho world over are nt your 
disposal at our Steamship 
Department. 8eleot your 
destination and we will do 
everything In our power 
to help you reach it in 
comfort and safety.
Mellon National Bank
Oliver Smilhfield

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1923
ALUMNI PAGE
ATHLETIC TEAMS ENTERTAINED 
AT PITTSBURGH CLAN DINNER
Dr. Baker, Dr. Bingham, F. J. 
Lananan, Buddy Overend 
Make Enthusiastic Talks 
on Athletic Situation
243 CLANSMEN OUT
Tim PlttHburuli Clan hold u luncheon last Saturday of which It has 
very reason to bo proud and one 
which would liavo dono nnyono'H 
heart goo'fl to seo, It mm In tho Jflnglisli room of tho Fort Pitt Hotel and 
sLartml at 1 o'clock.
Thor never was any doubt of tho 
quality of tho spirit of the Carnegio 
Tech alumni and there's much lens 
room for it now than ever before. 
Thoao who worked 83 hard for tiio 
success of this event are as happy as 
a bunch of larks, for TWO HUN
DRED AND FORTY-THREE Tech 
jpeoplo, pant and present, turned out, 
Mils number including guests, faculty 
and alumni, ull of whom wore very 
well represented. The guests Includ
ed Dr. T. S. Baker, the new prosldent 
of C. I. T.; Dr. W. V. Bingham, direc
tor of the division of Co-operative Re 
search; Mr. F. .T. Lanaluin, trustee, 
and tho nthletes who have represent
ed C. I. T. during the past year.
We were very pleased to see the 
goodly number of Margaret Morrison 
and Arts girls present. They deserve 
all tlio more credit because wo know 
ftlioy all road the sporting pages and 
must, have noticed Unit soino of the 
Pittsburgh papers said it was going 
to bo a smoker. However tho air was 
clear at all times.
Those who served on the committee 
of arrangements, and the finance and 
reception committees, and those who 
contributed tho real essence of suc
cess, tholr presence, are to bo thank
ed and congratulated for their co-op
eration and onthuslastlc support.
Tho committee on arrangements 
wan composod of Mr. J. C. Hobbs, 
proHidonfc of tho Clan, chairman; S. 
G. Little, L. I-I, Loo, M. R. Walton and 
A. J. Hyndii Mr. Loo was also chair
man of tho lnaneo committee. Those 
vi tho roceptlon committoo worn: 
Mr. Clarence Ovorond, Mr. Loo, Mr. 
Loo JCoIloy, Mrs. F. I. Gaston, Miss 
Mary Williams, Miss Anno JTIbbs and 
Mhm Bossy Flnlcolhor.
Tho crowd nppoared on l.ho scene 
very early and showod by tholr eager 
itORH that they proforrod being on tho 
inside, looking out.
Mr. .1. V. Onrlon, bond of tho De
partment of Music, CurnlBliod tho nm
ole for tlm day and chose olght mem
bers from his department, live of 
whom made tip an orchestra which 
played during tho luncheon and an In
strumental trio- of girls who rendered 
sioveml special selections, From the 
PPliiUKo those people attracted It 
wau emdly seen that the audience was 
loiifflitod.
The ahnonoo of Dr. C!. W. Potty, 
who was prevented from being pres
ent because of sickness, left a large
Faculty Notes
Two college prosldonts wlll bo 
speaker at tho reunlon and dlnnor 
noxt Tuesday night t tho University 
Club of tho .Johns Hopkins Alumnl of 
Pittsburgh. Prosident Frank .1. Goodnow, of Johns Hopkins, and Prosident 
Thomas S. Baker, of Curnogio Tech 
who V8 also a graduate of tho Balti
more University, are slutod to ad 
dresB tho alumnl, and othor attructlve 
foaturos bave beon arrunged by a lo
cai committee.
CLAN NEWS
TIDEWATER CLAN MEETS
The Tidewater Clan of Norfolk, Vu., 
met Wednesday evening, February 7, 
In the oillco of Pink Speiglo, Virginia 
National Bank Building, preparatory 
to dinner at the Hotel Fairfax. A 
ninety per cent attondunce was pres
ent and everyone enjoyed themselves. 
The next meeting will take place the 
first Wednesday In March. Should 
any Tech men bo In this locality at 
that time they are urged to communi 
cate with tho secretary. We want 
them as guests of the clan. We will 
show them a regular Carnegio party.
Community Service as 
New Vocation DiscussedALUMNAETAKENOTE* * * * ' Alumni, We Are Coming
After Your Kilt Money
By John J. Tigert,
S. Commissioner of Education.
Delegates to tho convention of the 
American Ceramic Society will bo the 
guests tonight of tho Drama Depart
ment. They will attend In a body a 
special presentation to bo given by 
tho Drama students in tho Arts Thea
ter, and will then be shown through 
the Institute.
The offering by tho students will bo 
two short plays: Tom Cobb," by W. 
S. Gilbert; and "Caleb Stones Death 
Watch," by Martin A. Flavin.
Miss Mary Louise Brown, Dean of 
Women will discuss "Freshman 
Talks" at the Convention of Deans 
of Women to be held February 2G, 27 
and 28 at Cleveland. This meeting 
will be followed on the first days of 
March by tho annual session of the 
National Education Association. Both 
conventions will be held at the Statlor Hotel.
Professor C. C. Leeds, bead of the 
Department of Machinery Production 
will speak Monday evening, February 
19th, before the Pittsburgh Foundrymen's Association, In monthly meet
ing at tho General Forbes Hotel. Pro
fessor Leeds will /discuss tho subject 
"Training for Foundry Exocutlves.
Carnegie Student Will
Take Movies in Egypt
gaj) in tho programone which was 
very difficult to bridge over.
Tho first speaker to be called upon 
was our new prosident, Dr. Baker 
and as ho rose, all present rose in his 
honor. His speech made a vory fa
vorable ImpresBion and was enthus
iastically received. The toastmaster 
Mr. J. C. Hobbs, then called upon Dr 
W. V. Bingham, who gave a sketch of 
tho life and character of Dr. F. A. 
Koppol, tho recently olocted prosldont 
of tho Carnegio Corporation.
Mr. Ovorond then fold of tho onormoufl setbacks which Carnegie Tech's 
athletic program has received in the 
Illness of Frank 11. Hnaron and tho 
recent developments in tho plans of 
Judge Steffen which will provont his 
being with un but for a part of tho 
next football Heason.
Members of Mr. T. W. wV3932Tt de
partment supplied a very amusing 
.sketch and brought a. great deal of 
applause.
The football Him was the next and 
last event on tho program and it was 
not until four o'clock that tho gather
ing broke up. Some party, we'll all 
oc! Ilore'ii hoping the next one 
will bo an good or even hotter.
Robert IT. Guyton, a Senior at Car
negie, sailed recently aboard the SS 
Mauretania on route to the Mediter
ranean and Egypt. He VT to take mo
tion pictures for the United Presby
terian Foreign Mission Board. .Guy
ton expects to be gone for nine 
months and will go on to the Sudan 
and Abyssinia and probably to India 
and China before returning to this 
country.
Guyton has had considerable expe
rience in photographic work. He 
served as staff photographer of the 
Carnegie Tartan during the time he 
was in school. Last fall he took all 
of the motion pictures of the football 
games for the Athletic Association. 
He also holds a commission as sec
ond lieutenant of photography in the 
Pittsburgh unit of the U. S. Air Serv
ice. He is a member of the Square 
and Compass Fraternity.
LECTURES BY DR. J.
ERSKINE FILL THEATER
H H il Si II Kl WM SB 9 fflS H M UBS KB MMM
The Best Business Career ra
is what every ambitious senior is 
thinking about at the present time. 
Life insurance is one of the best, one 
of the most desirable, and one of the 
most satisfactory as a permanent 
calling.
In assets and volume of business, 
life insurance is one of the three lead
ing businesses of this country, yet the 
field is comparatively under-developed. 
Only 7 per cent of the economic value 
of human life in the United States is 
covered by insurance. This gives an 
idea of the big field still to be worked, 
especially business insurance for firms 
and corporations.
As to remuneration: Reports of 
college graduates who have entered 
business indicate that life insurance is 
at the very top as a source of income. 
Now is the time for you to consider 
what you are going to do after gradu
ation. If you are ambitious and will
ing to work hard and are interested 
to know about life insurance, address
PAGEGT WOHCRNIOEN
m
ss
m
u
PAGE TWOHCRWNE IDSYRW,F
3R U3CO3Yu dHCCH.82CAOOC 
Largest Fidu-iary Institution in New England
H
m
(Continued From Page One) 
conveys information rather than 
truth; It satisfies our curiosity about 
a life we are Ignorant of, instead of 
pleuslng us by a faithful portrait of 
a life we can recognize. Consequent
ly, the novels are written to be read 
over, not for the continued rereading 
that art should expect. In the second 
place, the contemporary writer of
fends us often by writing about phys
ical facts that might properly be ex
pressed in pulntlng or sculpture, but 
which cannot bo said in words. The 
failure to recognize the limitations 
or language as a medium lead's often 
to tho effect of Indecency wlven no 
such ol'foot was intended. In the sub
ject matter also, tho disposition to 
probe into lvnnmn instincts, or rather 
to exploit various hypotheses about 
our instincts, makes our novels rather 
clinical, without convincing us that 
audit Introspection is really a por
trait of Hie.
"In the third place, moBt novels 
are now written in tho mood of condosconfilon, /about people who nro 
culturally or otherwise beneath us; 
tho purpose of the book Is moral, 
and the offoct Is one of satire. Wo 
havo too ll'Ctlo tragedy and too little 
comedy In our picture of ourselves, 
and wo grow weary over tho pro
longed inspection of our neighbors' 
foibles."
Poetry."
"MW readers are aware that. thoro 
In a now movement in poetry. This 
now movement Is usually thought of 
us a matter simply of free vorso. It 
really involves a challenge to old 
philosophies of life. Poetry has 
usually beon thought of as mons at
tempt to give himself a larger world 
to live In; elbow room, as It wore, to 
exorcise his irfoals in. Tho tradition
al poet also has believed that art is 
different from nature, nnd should be, 
different; that tho world in which 
we are born Is only the raw material 
out of which to make something finer. 
The traditional poet also lias believ
ed that he should express his audi
ence even more than he expresses 
himself, for, if his audience does not 
find tholr own portrait in what lie 
has written they are not likely to be 
interested in his private emotions and 
thoughts.
"The distinction of the new poetry 
and, in my opinion, its great error, is 
that it denies all three of these tra
ditional propositions about poetry. It 
holds that the world today is actually 
a new world aud that life today is 
different from any life hitherto known 
to man. Science and the industrial 
revolution, according to the new poet, 
have changed life so essentially that 
we have, in effect, a larger world to 
live in than our fathers had, and our 
business is to describe it whatever 
our ideals may be. Quite logically 
than the new poets believe that art 
should bo natural and realistic in the 
attempt to describe faithfully this 
now world, and in tho intorests of 
sclontiflc accuracy they tlilnk the poet 
should doscribo tho world as ho soes 
It without any roforonco to his audlonco. Tho result of this new philoso
phy of pootry Is soon in tho rathor 
startling and vivid, nnd in, also, tho 
sometimes rathor drab and forbidding 
pictures which the now poots glvo 
us."
"Criticism."
"Criticism us an art is tho dissi
pate in contemporary lttoraturo, for 
since tho writers aro convinced that 
tho past has little to teach them, they 
logically do not wish to have their 
work judged by standards drawn from 
the masters. Criticism today is large
ly an expression of praise or blame', 
a vote for or against. Some of the 
critics, like Mr. Macy or Mr. Moucheu, 
have the knowledge of the past but 
are careful not to use it, nnd try 
rather to bolster up their opinions by 
self-evident maxims. Carl Van Owen 
is the historian of contemporary lit
erature, observing it realistically 
without prejudice from the past, and
After college, what business or pro
fession? In these days of specializa
tion, the college man or woman who 
has not yet decided upon a career 
may choose from vocations more va
ried than ever before. One of the 
newest and most appealing of them 
has, been brought about by a combi
nation of fundamental changes in the 
character of American life. It is the 
profession of Organizing the leisure 
time of towns and cities.
Leisure is a powerful force, which 
may work either for gpwth or for de
terioration. Community Service, a 
post-war movement^ exists to make 
spare time constructive and rich. It 
provides leadership and combines the 
resources of community agencies in 
work for vigorous citizenship and 
healthful recreation. It helps com
munities and individuals to express 
through playgrounds, athletics, dra
matics, music and the various forms 
of art latent talents which cannot 
find an outlet through their daily 
work.
Community Service as a vocation 
offers a broad field to the socially 
minded man or woman of intelligence. 
With the growth of the movement, 
the damand for directors of commun
ity leisure time life increases. Pro
viding proper recreation is today con
sidered as much a civic responsibil
ity as providing sanitation and edu
cation. Communities are analyzing 
the word "recreation back to its es
sential meaning"re-creation.
There is truth in the warning that 
we are in danger of becoming a na
tion of "bleaclierites. Eighteen men 
play on a diamond while thousands 
sit and watch them, gaining their 
only exercise by occasional arm-wav
ing. We have too many sportsmen 
who confine their athletic proclivi
ties to watching others perform and 
reading the sports pages of the news
papers.
To be an interested spectator is 
commendable, but true recreation 
means participation. People and com
munities us well, grow only by doing. 
They are glad to exchange looking on 
for doing it they liavo a clianco. Facillties are lacking and organized 
leadership is lacking.
The task of Community Service is 
to give leadership to the communitys 
efforts' in supplying tfcese' recreation 
needs. Umrsed vacant lots are 
cleared for. playgrounds, neighborhood 
associations nire formed, programs of 
vea.--round ncMrtUes, bath . 0 
and indoor, are Initiated. But. Com
munity Service Ib not 
upon a community. It 1 a stiucttn 
built within and by the community itThe man or woman who follows the 
profession of Community Service acts 
In tho capacity of conaultmrt ov ad
visor to a town or city which wishes 
to use It' leisure time to the host ad
vantage. What a City managsr Is to 
the civic nr Ot a community and a 
Hchool superintendent is to its educa
tional ltfo; the Community Sm-vlcojnrector Is 1 Us leisure tlmo, 
working d'ays are busily 
Always he llnds 111 his PTOtmston 
scope tor every talent and capability 
he may posses.Young men and women who ate it  
torestod In entering this new HeId 
can receive information and advice 
from Community Service, 315 Fourth 
avenue, New York City.
v Do not forget the Guild Cab- > i
* arot Card Party to be given in *| 
v the Union Saturday, February ?:* 
v 24, from 2 to 6 oclock. It *'
* promises to be a splendid sue- ?!* | 
cess, so please help the good
*!? work along by attending 100
* per cent strong. The fee is 75
* cents.
PERSIAN MINISTER
ADDRESSES SCHOOL
(Continued From Page One.) 
turai resources of that country in oil 
and other minerals.
"A body of American advisers have 
recently arrived in Teheran and have 
begun the work of straightening out 
the finances. Other American experts | Marvin M. Hills, Kenneth K. Knaell. 
are required to reorganize the departNo, Al(umni), the Kilt Fund Cam
paign is not over. From recent de
velopments it looks as though it is 
just about to begin. What you start 
out to get minus almost nothing 
leaves just about what you started out 
after, doesnt it? Well, prepare your
self for doing your duty when the per
sonal campaigner gets you, or better 
yet, mail a check to G. L. Tilbrook, 
Treasurer, and then, with a clear con
science, tell the man that, although 
you feel that you have done your 
duty, you don't mind if he does take 
another dollar or two, away from you, 
when it is for such a good cause. Be
low is the list of contributors since 
February 3: Emaline J. Phillips,
George W. Stahlman, May M. Young, 
Milton S. Wadsworth, B. D. Sontag,
Chester H. Hotz, Gordon First, R. B. 
Dunham, W. H. Obenour, R. L. Steinberger, T. H. Reed, C. H. Kleffman, 
J. A. Mayer, J. H. Rainsford, R. C. 
Altermatt, W. K. Fawcett, A. D. Jen
ner, P. L. Hoover.
Come on, break the ice and get in 
the swim.
nVT 
diverse.
as far as possible without esthetic 
judgment.
"The chief exponents of the tradi
tional criticism are Paul Elmer 
Moore, George iSantagana, and' George 
Woodberry. Santagana Is the most 
brilliant as philosopher, Woodberry 
the most devoted to writing as art.
My own critical theory, as 1 have 
been illustrating it here, is derived 
from Woodberry and Santagana among 
the modernsthe best critics, I think, 
now writing in English. But I think 
critical theory should bear itself al
ways on observation of art in action 
of the effect of books on the reader. 
It is a study of the discipline which 
the art imposes on all who practice
it." I g
DR. SCHOEN SCORES
FOR PSYCHOLOGISTS
(Continued From Page One) 
pils and disagreement of one grade 
for two. For tonal shading there was 
agreement for seven of the pupils, 
and for the other three, a disagree
ment of one grade. For variety of 
performance there was complete 
agreement for six pupils, disagree
ment of one grade for three and two 
grades for one. For phrasing there 
was complete agreement for seven 
pupils, disagreement of one grade for 
two, and two grades for the other 
For time and rhythm there was com
plete agreemont for oiglit pupils and 
disagreement of one grade for the 
othor two. For talent as a whole 
thoro was agreemont for six pupils 
and disagroomont of one grade for 
tho othor four.
Summarizing those rosults, it is 
noteworthy that out of a total of sov 
enty evaluations, forty-nine complete 
agreements between teacher nnd tests 
and twonty-ono disagreements, and 
that of theso twenty-one uisagreo 
monts. eighteen were only to the ex
tent of one grade, and throe of two 
grades.
Miss Natalie Kneelnnd nnd Miss 
Ringo went to New York Tuesday of 
last week to attend the meetings of 
the National Retail Association.
Dr. Yoakum attended the recent Vo
cational Conference in Washington, 
D. C.
COUNCIL IS REJECTED
ments of Public Works, Commerce 
depends upon the increase of trans
portation facilities, building railways, 
and Agriculture. Persia's prosperity 
roads, and harbors. Persia is an agri
cultural country and earnestly desires
to adopt more modern methods in cul-! PETITION TO STUDENT 
tlvating her fertile soil.
"I would add in conclusion that the 
policy of the eminent statesman who 
directs your foreign relations in firm
ly insisting upon respect Tor tne open 
door and equal opportunity for all na
tions, and his love of fair play, leads 
Persia to believe that her hopes of 
enlisting American co-operation will 
come to fruition.
Col. Church opened the assembly 
with a talk on newly appointed Presi
dent Baker. It amounted to a formal 
inauguration, and President Baker re
plied to it as such. Following the talk 
of Nizra Hassan Khan Ali, Obie New
man and Carl Snyder whetted the 
crowds appetite by building a bunga
low, and then left, to the regret of the 
students present.
Following several announcements, 
the assembly closed with the singing 
of the Alma Mater.
(Continued from Page One) 
be worked out whereby Juniors be 
given actual representation on the 
Council. Accordingly the following 
motion: was passed: Moved, that the 
Student Council go on record as fa
voring Junior representation on the 
Student Council and that the method 
of such representation shall be re
ferred to a committee of the Student 
Council which shall be open to sug
gestions from the student body. Miss 
Grant, Jeffers, Sprinkle, Patterson 
and Bowers are the committee to 
work on this. The first meeting of 
the committee was held last Mon
day night.
Anderson was authorized to pur
chase a sweater and award it and 
cheer leaders letter to Safety First 
in accordance -with the action of the 
Council last year.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
Public Sales
We have purchased 122,000 ' 
pairs U. S. Army Munson last , 
shoes, sizes 5/z to 12, which  
was the entire surplus stock of ; 
one of the largest U. S. Govern- . 
ment shoe contractors.
This shoe Is guaranteed one 
hundred per cent solid leather, 
color dark tan, bellows tongue, ' 
dirt and waterproof. The ac
tual value of this shoe is $6.00. 
Owing to this tremendous buy 
we can offer same to the public 
at $2.95.
Send correct, size. Pay post
man on delivery or send money 
order. If shoes are not as rep
resented we will cheerfully re
fund your money promptly upon 
request.
National Bay State 
Shoe Company
296 BROADWAY 
NEW YORK, N. Y.
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
Musical Club Concert.................................Orrvillo II. S., Orville, Oliio
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 22
Musical Club Concert....:.....................Hotel Olmstead, Cleveland, Oliio
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23
Musical Club Concert...........................Glenville H. S., Cleveland, Ohio
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24 
Musical Club Concert........................Womens Civic Club, Elyria, Ohio
Directory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni FederationPresident, S. G. Little, 10; First Vice President, J. F. 
Laboon, 12; second Vice President, H. L. Heilman, '17; Third Vice Pres
ident, Genevieve Cushwa, '12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, '08; 
Secretary, Edna C. Smith, 09; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, '15.
Board of GovernorsCcllege of Fine ArtsH. H. Heilman, '17; M. M. 
Steen, '08; Frank Knaren, Associate.
College of IndustriesS. G. Little, '10; A. J. Hynd, '22; W. H. 
Hitts, '12.
College of EngineeringJ. F. Laboon, '12; G. L. Tilbrook. '15; M. R. 
Walton, '09.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegeFlorence Bechtel, '18; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, '09; Edna C. Smith, '09.
Representatives at LargeGenevieve Cushwa, '12; S. M. Vincent, '08. 
Officers of Alumni AssociationsCollege of Fine ArtsPresident, II. L. I-Ieil 
mon. 17; Secretary, Frank II. I-Iaaren;
Board of GovernorsC. O. Rieger, 13; Dorothea Steinmaclier, '19; 
Frederic McConnell, '17; Charlotte Smith, '28; Sarah Owen, 
Associate.
College of IndustriesPresident, S. G. Little, '10; Vice President, G. 
K. Koontz, 17; Second Vice President, K. H. B. Julian, 1G; Secretary-Treasurer, A J. Iiynd', r22.
Board of GovernorsL. T. Kelly, Associate L. H. Lee, 09; F. Miller, 
09; J. M. Orr, 15; G. T. Heddaeus, '19; F. A. Crotliers. '21. 
College of EngineeringPresident, J. F. Laboon, '12; SecretaryTreasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of GovernorsR. S. Wilson, '15; M. R. Walton, '09; E. F. 
Hirsh, 20; F. I. Gaston, 09; G. L. Tilbrook, '15; H. S. Stoclcdale, '15; H. G. Nichol, '21; J. F. Laboon, '12; R. C. Cosgrove, 
'IS; E. E. Duff, '13'.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegePresident, Florence I. Bechtel, 
'18; First Vice President, Jane Linderman Cole. '11; Second Vice 
President, Sue Smith. *17; Secretary-Treasurer, Edna C. Smith, 
'09.
Executive CommitteeMrs. F. I. Gaston, 09; Gail Sellers Fettke, 
'17; Florence Bechtel, '18; Bernice Kruger, '19; Mary Cummings 
Keaney, '20; Margaret Griffin, '21; Josephine Whitney, '22. (The 
officers are members of this Committee.)
New Shoes
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O. 
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street.
CHICAGOSeeretaiy, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street.
CINCINNATISeeretaiy, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSeeretaiy, II. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretarj', K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretar}1-, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Seeretaiy, R. W. Arnold, 701 Telephone Build
ing, S. N. E. T. Co., New Haven, Conn.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Walf ice, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELES-Acting Secretary, Mrs. I. H. Pille, 1420 Ninth Ave
nue, San Francisco.
MONONGAIIELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shenango St.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckahoe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.*
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street.
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 "Wick -Avenue
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital..............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
g  
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
H Compliments 
 of 
I Skibo Inn 
I After Every Meal
WiiSLEYS
Top off each meal with a bit ol sweet in the iorm 
ol WRXGLEYS.
It satislies the sweet tooth and aids digestion.
Pleasure and benefit combined.
