VOL. XVII. NO. 1 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1922
Y.M.C.A. MAKES 
EXTENSIVE PLAN 
FOR THIS YEAR
Varied Program Mapped Out 
by Different Committees. 
Seven Branches of Social 
Work to be Undertaken
HOLD STAG SMOKER
The Y. M. C. A. stag smoker was 
held in the Union last Monday night 
for the benefit of the incoming Fresh
man. The smoker was in the nature 
of a get-together for the older men, 
and as a broadcasting station of in
formation for the Plebes.
The Imperial Overseas .Minsltrels 
gave an interesting stunt which took 
big with the crowd. Dr. Baker, Dean 
Kirk-Pa trick, Coach Steffen and 
Fritz Bowers gave short talks. Re
freshments were served after these 
speeches.
The summer has not been an idle 
period for those closely connected 
with the Carnegie Tech Branch of the 
Y. M. C. A., for a program that prom
ises a year of activity has been work
ed out.
Several committees in charge of the 
various branches of the Y. M. C. A. 
have been appointed. One committee 
is in charge of various smokers that 
are to be held during the year and 
another is looking after the religious 
end of the student life at Carnegie. 
In all, about seven distinctly separate 
coinmittess are laying plans which are 
sure to make the Y one of the fore
most institutions on our campus.
The Y at Carnegie endeavors to 
serve the men of Carnegie Tech, re
gardless of creed, in every possible, 
helpful and practical way; to sur
round the students with such influen
ces as shall help them to live clean 
lives and to lead theim into active 
Church relationships according to 
their faiths.
The promotion of fellowship' 
among the students is the big issue 
this year, and toward that the entire 
organization is working.
Prof. P. S. Donnell is Chairman of 
the Committee of Management; Dean 
Tarbell, Chairman of. the .Advisory; 
Board, and C. F. Bowers, President of 
the Student Cabinet.
The work of the Y was started 
Monday evening when four hundred 
Plebes met their hundred Senior ad
visors at the Big Brother dinner 
in the campus cafeteria. The Seniors 
are to act as advisors to the Plebes 
assigned to them and to aid them in 
solving problems that arise during 
their early days at Carnegie.
Freshmen Get Rousing 
Reception From Sophs
Maggy Murphs Receive 
Proposals From Frosh
Tech, Tech, Tech, Tech, accom
panied by sundry cries from uppez-- 
classmen and Sophomores told to the 
world that registration day, with the 
accompanying hazing of Plebes, is 
again in our midst. On Monday the 
whole school registered for the fall 
term and several hundi*ed aspiring 
Freshmen were welcomed to our midst 
with cries of Where y from?
The hazing began immediately af
ter the Plebe registered and contin
ued throughout Monday and Tuesday. 
Thanks to the aid of these same Plebes 
we now have the bleachers in the 
football field and many Maggie Murphs 
have received unexpected, although 
not unwelcome, proposals of marriage.
Monday night} the Ask-Me supper 
was followed by a Campus sing and 
later in the evening the Green Ones 
were marshaled in a Pajama Parade.
Tuesday morning saw the general 
assembly where the new men were 
jollied into believing that someday 
they may amount to something. And 
who knows?
Tuesday evening the interclass 
struggles occurred, which the Sophs 
won in the customary manner. And 
last night the pageant of the Burial 
of the Hatchet was presented, thus 
ending the hostilities after two days 
of hazing.
From now on, the Plebes are in the 
hands of the various Vigilance Com
mittees in the different schools and 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Musicians Needed For Band
Every man who can (or thinks he 
can) play a horn is wanted for the 
band. You dont hare to be a real 
musician to play in the band, just 60 
you can run the scale is all that is 
necessary.
Plebes: If you want to show that
you have lots of spirit and pep come 
out If you haven't already heard 
of The Old Tech Spirit you soon 
will. Well, The old Tech Spirit 
originated in the band.
The band will probably take two 
football trips. In addition to this 
there are several out-of-town con
certs given each year.
The first rehearsal will probably 
be Wednesday evening at seven thir
ty sharp. Watch for posters on the 
campus to be sure.
NEW BULLETIN BOARDS
TO BE USED. ARE BIG
IMPROVEMENT OVER OLD
The summer has seen the end of 
tacking of signs about the campus.
The summer ushered in three large 
white signboards, located at points 
where each and everyone has to pass 
on entering or leaving the campus. 
The bulletin boards are not as yet 
completed, as the front will be cov
ered with glass to protect the var
ious bulletins.
All signs to be posted will have to 
meet the approval of the Dean of 
Men, and only signs having his appro
val can be posted on bulletin boards. 
No sign or notice can be posted else
where. All signs must be in English, 
but not phonetic English.
PLAID FOOTBALL MACHINE FOR 22 SEASON
HORNBOSTEL MAKES 
PLANS FOR NEW GYM
Is Planned to be One of the 
Best Equipped Gyms 
in Country
The plans and drawings of Carne
gie Techs new gymnasium are near
ing completion, only a part of the de
tails remaining to be finished. The 
accompanying floor plans will give a 
very good idea as to what the new 
gym will be Hike. The (architects 
have been very painstaking in their 
work and the sketches are the results 
of many changes and re-arrangements. 
Not a single inch of floor space is to 
be lost, according to the new plans.
Mr. Henry Hornbostel, the eminent 
architect and head of the Department 
of Architecture in the College of Fine 
Arts, is the designer of the building 
and has devoted a great deal of his 
time to it. It is unanimously agreed 
that the general motif and style of 
the building is in keeping with the 
other structures already on the cam
pus and that it will add a great deal 
to the appearance of the campus.
The new gym is to be furnished 
with modern equipment and is to be 
one of the best equipped college gym
nasiums in the country.
Bids for construction will be called 
for in the near future, and according 
to present expectations ground will 
be broken for construction in the 
fall.
The gymnasium is a gift from the 
Carnegie Commission.of New York. 
About a year ago, the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology received, among 
other endowments, six hundred thou-, 
sand dollars for the building of a I 
gymnasium and the development ofj 
an athletic field. With that amount 
of money a gym can be built of which 
every Carnegie man may be proud.
FOOTBALL SEASON OPENS 
WITH WAYNESBURG COLLEGE 
SATURDAY AT TECH FIELD
Most of Last Years Men Back; 
Many New Men Out For Varsity; 
Squad Back Last Saturday 
From Training Camp
VERY FEW INJURIES SO FAR
First row, left to rightAmans, C. D. Reid, Potter, Godden, Newman, Weirman, Sprinkle.
Second rowMunhal, trainer; Comfort, Rosenbloom, Pittman, J. L. Anderson, captain; Taylor, Robertson, 
Brumbaugh. ;
Third row, standingWaddell, assistant coach; Wally Steffens, coach; Conner, Hudson, Mefort, Bastian, 
Moran, Irwin, Szold, Zelt, McCallum, C. J. Anderson, Frank Haaren, graduate manager.
Top rowLange, Gilbert, Van Atta, Wayne, Kramer, bonahoe, Beede, Walker.
MANY CHANGES 
IN PERSONNEL 
OF FACULTIES
New Instructors Appointed in 
Every Department. Lieut. 
Col. T. Cunningham New 
Head of R. O. T. C.
NEW DEAN OF WOMEN
FRAT RUSHING RULES 
EFFECTIVE THIS YEAR
The General Interfraternity Coun
cil of Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy is an organization of all the recog
nized fraternities (social) at Carnegie 
Tech. Its purpose Is to decide ques
tions involving relations between the 
fraternities, the recognition of. now 
fraternities, control of scholastic, ath
letic and other interfraternity activi
ties, and the control of fraternity rush
ing, pledging and Initiation.
The following rushing rules have 
been passed by the Council, and will 
be in effect for the college year, 1922-
23.
By-Laws, Article XII. Rushing Reg
ulations.
Section 1. Rushing period.
Rushing shall begin with a rushing 
period beginning with the fall regis
tration day and terminating at mid
night of the third Saturday following, 
during which no bids shall be offered.
Section 2. Bids.
Bids may .be offered after the ex
piration of the rushing period, but 
no bids shall be accepted within the 
week immediately following the 
Rushing Period.
Section 3. Period of Silence.
Alt rushing shall cease at 12 oclock 
(midnight), of the fourth Saturday 
and mutual silence shall be maintain
ed .until noon (12 M), of the following 
day (Sunday).
Section 4. Acceptance of Bids.
At this hour (12 M Sunday) the 
rushee will signify his choice by pre
senting himself at the house or quar
ters of the fraternity of his choice.
Section 5. Open rushing.
From this time on open rushing 
shall prevail.
Section 6. Dates.
The exact dates of the periods es
tablished by this article shall be set 
by the Infraternity Council for each 
year during the previous spring.
Section 7. Publicity.
(a) Printed copies of the rushing 
regulations shall be forwarded to all 
eligible students! entering Carnegie 
Institute of Technology for the first 
time.
(b) These regulations shall be 
published in the first four issues of 
the Carnegie Tartan each year.
Section 8.
These regulations shall be effec
tive for the college year of 1922-23.
The following is of interest to new 
students.
Article V, Section 2, of the By-laws, 
reads as follows:
A student must have completed 
satisfactorily one semester of the 
regular college year, must be regis
tered in a degree course, and must 
be in good btanding as interpreted 
by the Institute eligibility rules, in 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Many new faculty appointments 
have been made for 1922-23 at Carne
gie Tech. While some of the 
changes in the toaching staff will be 
replacements, a large number will bo 
additions to various departments, in 
anticipation of the increased student 
enrollment.
Miss Mary Louise Brown, formerly 
assistant to the Dean of Women at 
Ohio State University,, will take 
charge of the office as Dean of Wom
en. Other executive1 appointments 
are: Miss Harriett F. Glendon of
Chicago, as assistant Professor and 
Acting Head of the Department of 
Household Economics, Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie College; Lieutenantcontinued on Pago Four.)
PUBLICITY MANAGER CLARK
SUSTAINS INJURIES SEPT. 7
The many friends of Mr. W. Sher
man Cjlark, Publicity Manager ifor 
Carnegie Tech, regret to hear of his 
unfortunate accident of September 7. 
While returning to his home in the af
ternoon, he was struck by a machine, 
receiving injuries that necessitated 
his removal to the Mercy Hospital. 
His condition is reported as not ser
ious, bul. will confine him to his bed 
for at least another week.
The Carnegie Tartan wishes him a 
speedy recovery, as well as his many 
othei1 friends. Mr. Clark is a na
tive of Woonsocket, Rhode Island, 
and has been with Carnegie Tech 
since last winter.
FRESHMENI IF YOU MERIT 
EXEMPTION FROM PLEBE 
REGULATIONS, READ THIS
Freshmen and irregular students 
claiming exemption  from Plobe regu
lations must fill out an Examination 
Petition Slip, turnlshed by the Senate 
Representative of his department, and 
present it to the Senate of his Col
lege for approval.
If the petition is accepted, an Ex
emption Card, signed by the President 
of the Senate of his respective col
lege, will bo givon him. This card 
must bo carried at at all times, and 
must bo presented whenever request
ed by a Sophomore or Upper-class* 
man.
The date and place whore these 
cards can be securef! will bo published 
in the next issue of the Carnegie Tar
tan.
THIRTEEN CARNEGIE 
MEN AT CAMP VAIL
Camp Located Near Long 
Branch, N. J.; Other 
Schools Send Men
Tho fall session has bogun and 
imany who spent tho summor or at 
least a part of It at some one of tho 
Hoveral V. S. R. O. T. C. Camp 
brought back sovoral pounds of oxtra ilosh, a heavy coat of tan and 
long stories of good times onjoyod 
during tho summor. Those who wore 
at Camp Alfred Vail In tho Signal 
Corps unit think. that tholr good 
timos wore tho best of all.
It Is located about threo miles from 
Long Branch, N. J.
The curriculum at Camp Vail is 
not such as to prove a burden to any 
engineering student oven during a 
hot summer. It includes some radio 
and telephone work, together with 
such other purely military subjects 
as tho Signal Corps officer requires. 
There was also an inspection trip to 
the American Telephone and Tele
graph building in New York City 
where the men had an opportunity 
(Continued on Page Three.)
REGISTRATION 
IN DAY SCHOOL 
PROVES HEAVY
Approximately Twenty-Five 
Hundred Students Register. 
Plebe Class Numbers About 
Seven Hundred and Fifty
NITE SCHOOL TO OPEN
Now that tho fall registration Is 
ovor with everyone should Imvo thl'oo 
good days of classes this wo ok. 
Most of tho student- -registered or 
Monday, while Tuesday was given 
for the rest of them to reglstor and 
for oreryono to have a good limo 
before classos startod this morning.
Tho approximate registration of 
the Freshman aro: 270 In tho Collogo 
of Engineering, 100 in tho College of 
Industries, 190 In tho Margaret Mor
rison College for Womon, and .180 In 
the College of Fino Arts'. The Fresh
man classes in Fino Arts and Murgarot IVforrlson aro 20 per cent larger 
than hist yoar whllo those In Engi
neering and industries are a little 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
REGISTRATION DAY, 24TH,
OAKLAND M. E. CHURCH
Sunday* September 24, Is Registra
tion Day at tho Oakland Mothodlst 
Episcopal Church, Forbes and Bocjuot 
streets. Sunday school sorvlces will 
be held at 9:45 a. in., at which time 
three new student classes will bo 
formod.
At tho regular morning services, 
11:00 a. m., Ed Lowers, a Carnegie 
student and president of tho Vaga
bond Club, will speak. Dr. Linhart 
of the Pitt Faculty, and H. G. Sam
son will also speak.
IT. Augustine Smith of Boston Uni
versity, is expected to speak and 
lead the musla at the evening serv
ices.
AS THE ARTIST SEES THE CAMPUS
SAV 
Mew
GYM
ROCKWELL TO HEAD 
SCHOOL OF LIFE INS.
Resume of the History of 
School of Life Insur
ance Salesmanship
With the opening game only a matter of three days off, Coach Waily
Steffen of the Carnegie Tech football team is driving his men hard in hopes
or rounding out some sort of an offense and defense with which he might 
hope for a victory over Waynesburg College. The team as a whole have 
very few injuries to remind them of the misery and so forth attendant to 
initial football practices, which is due, no doubt, to the careful work of 
Trainer Bert Munhall, who held daily workouts on his table immediately 
after each practice session, both morning and afternoon.
mo.# The camp this year was most suc
cessfully handled by Bert Munhall as 
Boss in Chief, materially aided in
tho kitchen by Oliver, and a bunch of
assistant managers. Oliver is known 
as a good grub preparer, and ho 
fully came up to all expectations, its 
is testified by the healthful appearance 
of all men who had the pleasure of j 
staying at tho camp, even for a short 
while, as was the case of the humble 
scribe.
Manager Vic iStromquist perform
ed his work well considering his es
pecially strong hankering" for tho 
Sohonley Park golf course. Ho had 
his assistant managers always on tho 
job, and did his duty in keeping tho 
football men fully oqulpped, aside 
from being always ready to talco part 
in a galmo of GOO.
Tho squad has boon handicapped 
by the continued warm woathor but 
oven so It really takos warm woathor 
to iron out tho kinks and stralghton 
out a "charloy-horso. Whllo hot 
woathor might, ho THE thing for a 
basoball player, It. Is pretty hard on 
a bunch of football players. "Old 
Sol has a moan tondohcy of sapping 
ones strength, and football Is Itsolf 
a great user of onorgy, With the two 
working tog other on the1men, It Is no 
wondor thoy wore pretty tired of tor 
each days work on tho gridiron.
As to prospootn this yoar, things 
do not appear, to ho hull, a.ibright "ml 
rosy an many aro prone to think. 
"Hoar Stories littyo boon tho custom 
op all local football wrllon.i thhi yoar, 
but whon one gets down to rook-bot
tom facts, Kite truth of tho matter In 
that, the Plaid team shows very littlo 
promise ol! being any bettor than that 
of last year. While admitting tho rev 
(Contlnuiod on Page Throo.)
Tho Faculty of the Carnoglo School 
of Life Insurance Salesmanship have 
just roturond from Los Angeles, where 
thoy liavo boon conducting a summer 
class. Tho session was a very suc
cessful ono, with an enrollment of 
one hundred and ton students.
Whon tho fall term boglns on Oc
tober 22 it will mark the boglnning 
of tho fourth year of the School of 
L^fe ilnsuranco Salesmanship. The 
school 1ms boon a plonoor in Its fiold, 
and Is being coplod by several uni
versities. Tho Carnoglo Sdhool 1:3 
pointed to as tho standard upon which 
tho newer schools of lifo Insuranco 
salesmanship aro bqlng modeled,
Professor Charles .V. llockwoll has 
boon namod as. tho now director of 
tlio school. Ho succobds Mr. G. N. 
Lovelace, who lias resigned In ordor 
to organize a school along similar 
lim-r at Now YoHc University.
Professor Rockwell has boon con
nected with our Life Insuranco School 
for two yoars. Boforo that, he was 
director of education and training ol! 
tho Pittsburgh agency of the Equita
ble Life. Ho has had many years of 
experlonco In llCo insuranco work.
A now member of tho staff Is Mr. 
Curtis A., Hollingsworth, assistant 
professor of Life Insuranco Practice. 
Mr. Hollingsworth Is a graduate of 
tho second class of the Carnoglo Llfo 
Insuranco School, and has represent
ed the Massachusetts Life for sovoral 
years In Baltimore and Cumberland, 
Mcl.
Whon first organl/.od, the School of 
Llfo Insuranco Salesmanship was undor tho supervision ol' Dlroctor W. V. 
Bingham. It was lator placed under 
(Continued on Pago Throe.)
Hatchet Buried Tuesday
Tho pageant of tho Burial of tho 
Hatchet," which was prosontod last 
night, Is a custom which has bocomo 
a tradition at Carnoglo Tech. It imivrosse upon the Freshmen that tho 
hazing has Its sorloua Bldo as well as 
Its funny side, and brings to them 
the realization of tho high ideals of 
Carnogle Tech.
Tho two tribes, tho battle, tho 
treaty, and the burial of the hatchet, 
with its immediate disinterment by 
souvenir hunters, are too familiar to 
demand description. But tho real 
beauty of tho custom is perhaps lost 
upon us in the interest of the action. 
Let us not forget tho symbolism of the 
thing, and try to remember that the 
liatchot has been burled between the 
classes. Remember that the war be
tween the classes is over, and now 
remains only to teach tho new men to 
become worthy of the name of Car
negie men and to add another 
strong link In tne Carnegie chain.
Dean Tarbell Resumes 
Duties October First
Dean H. K. Kirk - Patrick 
Ably Fills His Position
A. W. Tarboll, who has boon Doan 
of Mon f(Or a number of years, will 
return to Carnoglo Toeh and assume 
his duties on Oetobor first. Doan 
Tarboll has had a loavo of absence 
since last winter, due to tho poor 
condition ol his health.
IT. K. Klrk-Patrlck, formerly in
structor in English In tho Collogo of 
Engineering, has boon Acting Doan 
of Men in Mr. Tarbolla absonco. Mr. 
Klrk-Patrlck vory ably filloil tho posl~ 
tlon of Dean of Mon, and has acquir
ed for hlmsolf many new friends 
among tho students. New probloms 
have confronted tho Dean of Mon, in
cluding a change in Dormitory Gov
ernment, new fraternity rushing 
rules, and an improved system of 
Sonlor-Advlsors fpr the Freshmen. 
The Dean of Men is now the advisor 
to the 'Senlor-Advisors, giving him a 
closer supervision over tho activities 
of the Freshmen.
Uutil Mr. Tarbell returns, Mr. KlrlcPatrick will continue to assume the 
duties of Dean of Men. He urges 
every Freshman to bring his troubles 
to him, excluding those of a purely 
scholastic nature.
Tartan Gridders Candidates For 
Carnegie Medal on Fireman Score
(Special Telegram to the Carnegie 
Tartan.)
The heroes of Carnegie Tech grid
iron fame have already proven their 
worth in other directions than that 
of ground gaining on the lined field. 
Versatility Is the prevailing motto of 
the day, and it Is now an established 
fact that as football players some of 
tho local veterans make excellent fire
men. A littlo thing like a town or 
two saved from tho ravages of a ter
rific fire means little In the lives of 
our young heroes.
Late ono evening last week, after 
tho ravages of tho days wfirlmago were 
over, and tho days wreckage of mis
cellaneous legs and arms had boon 
carried off to tho hospital to bo ren
ovated, ono of tho local Inhabitants, 
like the Marathon runnor of old, ctfmo 
speeding up the road to the camp 
leaving considerable of a vacuum be
hind him. At first it was thought to 
bo a Yale scout snooping up to get the 
dope on the approaching battle, but 
as he approached nearer, keen eyed 
ones were able to determine that the
customary Yale knickers were absent, 
and this belief waB discarded. His 
touching tale was soon heard; one of 
the local barns, the largest In the com
munity, containing a full quota of 
canines and felines, had caught firo 
from a Cubeb cigarette, and now men
aced the entlro eight houses of tho 
city.
Warriors to the Rescue.
At once the valiant heroes wero 
rousod to action, and led by the en
thusiastic inhabitant, tore up tho In
tervening ground to the scone of the 
firo In. six and a half fiat, whore a 
waiting fire engine of the vintage of 
188(5 awaltod tholr onrush. The en
tire population was on hand, oxcept 
tho proprietor of the local grocery 
storo, who had remained In tho prox
imity of tho town pump, and the ar
rival of tho footballers was greeted 
by a hoarty cheer from all fourteen 
throats. Cy Comfort and Red* 
Godden, being well in the lead, seized 
tho place where the horse was wont 
to occupy, had there been one, and.
(Continued1 on Pago Three.)
FALL TENNIS 
 TOURNAMENT j 
STARTS SOON
FOOTBALL WAYNESBURG VS.
CARNEGIE 
SATURDAY 3:00 P. M.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1922
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie InBtltute of
Technology under the supervision of the Student, Activities Board.__________
Entered In the PostoIIlce of Pittsburgh as econd-clttHB matter.
VICTOR H. STItOMQUlST ...................................................... Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHlland 858.H. D. SONNEMANN............................................................ Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211EDW. A. BRAND................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9143
KENNETH ARNOLD............................................................. Associate Editor
II. P. SIMPSON ..................................................................... Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9079
HORTENSE PURDY.............................................................. Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 0X43
H. P. DIETER ..I........................................................................... News Editor
TelephonoHazel 9898E. J. MAUST ................................................................................ News Editor
TelephoneHazel 9422
H. H. WILSON..........................................................................Athletic Editor
TelephoneSchenley 2944It. P. HAY .................................................................................... Photographer
R. B. KELLER .............................................................,........Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE ..................................................................................... Art Editor
P. S. REPPtaBR ......................................................................Special Writer
J. K. MATTER.......................................................................... Special Writer
J. M. COOPER ................................................................ Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 821 J.
J. C. MAJOR................................................................... Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, W. J. Bolton, L. Ilertzman, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. 
Downes, W. G. Sullivan, P. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. Matt
son, R. J. Kredel, P. D. Rossini, V. L. Spencer, W. Winning.______________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
H. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, L. D. VOL.XINLI1 E. C. Frazier, J. H.
Ferguson.____________________________________________1 __________________ 
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltenhauser, P. II. Allison, A. D.
Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schuckor and T. .1. Dompsoy._______
Tho Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the
Managing Editor for the make up. __________________________________
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All nows items must bo in the student
postofilco before 4; 30 Friday. _________________________________________
Tartan OfflceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.______________________________________
PRESIDENT HAMERSCHLAG STEPS OUT
President Hamcrschlag i has resigned. It is a great loss to 
Carnegie, because great educators and organizers of liis caliber are 
iew. Under liis leadership the school lias become world Jamous. 
Many new ideas in higher education have been conceived and devel
oped by him. In less than a score oi! years Carnegie has become one 
oil the leading technical schools in America. This is truly a monu
ment to a great genius.
Every one interested in this institution regrets very much that 
his active connection has been severed. We hope that his interest is 
still with us. Dr. Hamerschlag can be assured that the alumni and 
students wish him unlimited success in any new venture lie may 
undertake.
CAMPUS PROPERTY
The campus has been much improved this summer. The school 
authorities aro doing line work along this line. How about the stu
dents? It seems that there are some who are not much concerned. 
An obvious example is that oi! students taking the short course across 
the cut. Because wo had to have the baseball field here last spring, 
it should not mean that now we can tramp across the grass and make 
it look worse. Anyone who was here when the cut looked like a 
dump ground can appreciate how much better it looks now; also they 
understand how much money and work was expended to make the 
improvement. Students should not hesitate to reprimand anyone 
guilty of this damaging short cut.
All school property should bo regarded as the students own 
property. Upon enrolling wo become a part of Carnegie and Car
negie property is our property. No ono would scratch their initials 
on a chair at homo, or would anyone consider painting numerals or 
defacing the walls of their house. Dots bo moro careful and think 
twice before wo do anything that is not for the best intorests ol our 
school.
NEW FRESHMAN CAPS
The now Plobo caps aro what might bo termed nifty. The new 
design is in keeping with our Scottish traditions. Something suit
able lias long boon a problem, and we hope this is a solution. Kvery 
iroshman should consider it an honor to wear this cap, for it repre
sents the spirit ol' tho school and its founder. There is nothing so 
humiliating in this style as tho freakish headwear, which has long 
been in vogue in ourcolleges. It. is a credit to tho eonnnittoo that 
put it through.
NEW SIGN BOARDS
At last we have student sign boards. They aro placed in the 
best location on tho campus and should bo used; but used properly. 
Not be plastered with hugli placards, which monopolize all the space. 
A notice placed there should bo taken down, when it becomes out of 
date, by tho party who put it up. This would prevent crowding, 
which makes all inoffoetivc. Students should observe thoso boards 
and keep posted on what is going on around the campus.____________
A Greeting From Dr. Baker
IN response to the Invitation of the Editor of the Carnegie Tar
tan, I am most happy to write a word of greeting and good wishes 
to you of the student body. I want to assure you of my deep interest 
in your success and in your affairs. Ihopo I shall have the opportu
nity of getting acquainted with a large number of our undergraduates. 
We have had a wholesome college spirit in the past, and we must 
work together, both students and faculty, to quicken still further this 
spirit.
From the point of view of a college executive, high scholarship 
Is the first thing to be striven for; but your happiness and success 
will be increased if you get something more from your college life 
than that which is secured In the class room and laboratory. I wish 
it were possible for every student to take part in some branch of 
athletics. Unfortunately we do not have the playing fields. But each 
man and woman should realize that it is impossible to do good work 
without physical exercise of some sort. 1 hope also that every stu
dent will have a share in some phase of undergraduate social life. 
Do not enter into the activities" with the desire to beocme prom
inent, but in the hope that you can promote hose hings which you 
think will make life at our institution happier and more profitable.
I am sure we can make this year Important In the history of the 
Institute If students and faculty will co-operate In their efforts to at
tain high scholarship, to encourage as general participation in ath
letics as may be possible, and to promote a wholesome and enthusias
tic college spirit. I wish to assure you of my desire to help you 
realize your best hopes for the coming year.
Very sincerely yours,
THOMAS S. BAKER.
OreetlngB, Plebes.
You're as welcome as the flowers 
In spring. The Sophs are glad to see 
you because you furnish subjects for 
tliolr fun and surveillance.
The Juniors are glad to see you be
cause you mean the continuation of 
the Sophs.
The Seniors are glad to see you be 
causo you modn tho cotinuatlon of 
Carnegie Ideals and you will some 
day be the mainstays around tho cam
pus.
Tho faculty is glad to see you be
cause you are indirectly their live
lihood,
You're going to have a hard row to 
hoe during tho npxti year and In two 
woolfs, emancipation week will seem 
a century away. But buck up, make 
up your mind to onjoy your school, 
Show class spirit and take your medi
cine.
And Plobo, freeze onto that little 
Froslnnan Bible which youve been 
given cause that's your best friend. 
Follow its comimandmonts carefully 
and sometime you may attain that 
state of grace wiiero youll bo SophB.
Good luck to you..
ROAMER.
Attempt Being Made 
to Eliminate Cribbing
Many Organizations Here 
Back This Movement
COSTUME SHOP 10 OPEN 
IN MARGARET MORRISON
A courso In trade dressmaking Avlll 
be an innovation hero this year. Mias 
Jane Palos, liend of tho department of 
costume economics in tho Margaret 
Morrison Camoglo College announces, 
in connection with this now courso 
that students will bo enrolled at any 
time during the coming year. To en
able women w'ho wish to take special 
training in trade di*essmaking, the 
course will be particularly adaptable. 
Students will be enrolled regardless 
of their previous education, and for 
as many lessons as they desire.
The practicability of the trade dress
making course will be enhanced by
tho installation of a clothes shop in 
tho school. Hero t.ho work of the 
students will bo on salo to tho pub
lic. Heretofore, most of the students 
have confined thoansolvos to tho prac
tice of making olothos for themselves. 
With an outlet sucli as tho clothes 
shop, students will lvavo tho practical 
experience ol! supplying dresses and 
other clothing to tho trado.
Miss Pales unnouncos that tho shop 
will bo open for business this fall. In 
addition to tho products of studonts, 
tho stock will includo various lines 
of novelties and specialties of inter
est to Womeu.
An instructor in trade dressmak
ing has been engaged, iu the person 
of Miss Elinor Francisco of Middle
town, N. Y. Miss Francisco will come 
to Carnegie Tech thoroughly equipped 
with education and experience in 
this field.
This article is an attempt to bring 
to tho attention of the student body 
tho growth and consequent evils of 
tilie practice of "cribbing. It has 
been written by students of this instutlon and, therefore, contains the 
thoughts and feelings of your follow 
students. The ideas expressed herein 
aro backed by the Student Council 
and by campus organizations of every 
sort. After you have finished reading 
this, do not throw it away, keep it 
und think over the message that it 
carries. It is only by sober thinking 
and right thinking on the part of the 
individual student that this evil can 
be corrected.
The question may be asked "Why 
all this fuss about cribbing? There 
isnt enough going on to justify this 
commotion." That question and tho 
opinion expressed therein is a very 
natural one. Tho growth of this prac
tice has been so insidious that the 
student sentiment has been brought 
around not only to tolerate but to be 
in sympathy with it. While the per
centage of studonts guilty of the prac
tice is relatively small, yot that small 
number will liavo a marked Influence 
on tho entlro student body if tho prac
tice Is not crushed. It is time tho 
students took a definite stand against 
this evil.
If allowed to continue it will finally 
destroy that claim to high scholarship 
which wo like to associate with tho 
name "Carnoglo. It will moan that 
a dogroo from tho institution will be 
heavily discounted. If a student goes 
through college, passing his studies 
by cheating, ho will know little or no 
moro than when ho started, and when 
ho comes to face tho world, his dogioo will avail him little If ho cannot 
show tho qualities for which his do- i 
groo is supposed to stand.
Wo have spoken of tho offoct that 
this practice will liavo on tho reputa
tion of the Institution. What about 
tho offoqt on tho student himself? 
Processor Rowo, president of tho 
AnioMoan Socloty of Industrial En
gineers, In addrosslng a group of Car
noglo Tech studonts rooontly, said: 
"Tho first and most important func
tion of any Institution of learning Is 
to dovolop tho icharactor of tho stu
dents, so as to mnko thoso studonts 
absolutely reliable and trustworthy; 
tho second function is to give thoso 
studonts a thorough training in tho 
courses selected.
A mans character is best exempli
fied in Ills personal honesty; by which 
we mean not only honesty in his deal
ings with otlieiB, but also in his deal
ings with himself. The weakening of 
this quality of personal honesty by 
this practice while in college will 
leave a man less able to resist the 
temptations that beset a. man in busi
ness life. Cribbing is a poor train
ing for good citizenship. It destroys 
those qualities of initiative and selfreliance that are so essential to any 
permanent success. A man who cribs 
will assert that he would not steal 
any material thing, but his resistance 
to the temptation to do so is undoubt
edly weakened by his indulgence in 
"cribbing.
Where can the blame be placed for 
this condition? While the greatest 
blame is to be placed on those who 
do the actual cheating, yet some can 
be placed on the other students who 
do not take the offence as seriously 
as it should be taken, and also upon 
| the faculty, wiiose attitude is wrong 
I in many cases. .Some will say that 
j the attitude of the instructor in the 
l examination rooms acts as a challenge 
to students to cheat whenever it is 
possiblo. Other instructors are en
tirely too lax, not calling tho students 
for infractions of the rules. Never
theless, tho existence of a temptation 
is not sufficient oxcuso for such an 
act.
What Is tho romody for this condi
tion? How can this practice bo re
duced or eliminated onttroly? And 
tho answer is, that any correction 
must come from tho students them
selves. Student honor Is a matter of 
campus opinion. Student sentiment 
must feel and admit tho undesirabili
ty of "cribbing, and tlion array it
self against the few individuals who 
dissent and make "cribbing impos
sible for them. To inspire the growth 
of a healthy sentiment against "crib
bing is our purpose. Nothing cau be 
forced, but by a closer agreement 
among the students and a better un
derstanding between them and their 
instructors, this evil can be gotten 
rid of. Eliminate "cribbing," and not 
only our Alma Mater and ourselves
DR. A. A. HAMERSCHLAG RETIRES; 
DR. BAKER ACTING PRESIDENT
DR. A. A. HAMERSCHLAG
Carnegie Board of Trustees 
Accepts Resignation of 
Dr. Hamerschlag
GOES INTO BUSINESS
It was will! extreme regret tbat the 
student body of Carnegie Tech learned 
of the resignation of Dr. Arthur A. 
Hamerschlag, former president of our 
school. Dr. Hamerschlag has been 
head of our institution since its forma
tion, and has secured the eBteem of 
all the students and faculty members 
during his career here.
On June 27th Dr. Hamerschlag sent, 
to the Board of Trustees his resigna
tion as President of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology. At its meet
ing on that date the Board accepted 
his resignation with regret, and pass
ed the following resolution:
"RESOLVED, That the resignation 
of Dr. Arthur A. Hamerschlag as Pres
ident of the Carnegie Institute of 
Techimlogy is hereby accepted to take 
effect July 1, 1922.
In accepting the resignation of Dr. 
Hamerschlag as President of the Car
negie Institute of Technology, the 
Board records its sincere regret in 
breaking the official ties which have 
connected it with him. Coming to 
Pittsburgh in 1903 with instructions 
from this Board to undertake the cre
ation and development of the Techni
cal -Stehools which had been author
ized by Andrew Carnegie, Dr. 1-Iamcrschlag set himself to the accomplish
ment of this great task with an en
thusiasm and purpose which carried 
him forward to complete success. Dr. 
Hamerschlags motive from the be
ginning was to make himself an in
strument of tho highest service to 
the necessities of this community in 
providing a system of technical train
ing for young men and young women 
of the new generation. His first ef
forts so commended themselves both 
to the trusteos and to Mr. Carnegie 
that new and 'liberal financial ireDR. THOMAS S. BAKER
sources were furnished from time to 
time until under Dr. Hamerschlags 
guidance the modest class rooms 
which comprised the school at its 
start were expanded into numbers and 
departments, reaching at last their 
present status of a great technical 
university worthy of our city and our 
country. The first graduating class 
was sent out in 1908, and from that 
moment the alu'mni of this school 
have begun to make themselves a powd
er ir. the industrial, scientific, and ar
tistic development of the nation. The 
Board assures him of its high appre
ciation of his invaluable labors and of 
their recognition of his success, and 
they convey to him at this moment 
of official parting the assurance of 
confidence, admiration, and esteem 
which they cherish for him.
The Trustees appointed Dr. Baker, 
who has been Secretary for the past 
three years, as Acting President. Dr. 
Baker is a native of Maryland and a 
graduate of Johns Hopkins University, 
where he w'as for several years asso
ciate professor of Modern Languages 
and lecturer on Modern European lit
erature. For ten years previous to 
coming here Dr. Baker was director of 
the Jacob Tome Institute, at Port De
posit, Md. Under his administration, 
it became one of the most substantial 
and famous boys schools in the East. 
Dr. Baker has also been a consistent 
contributor to literature, as an author 
and as a critic.
The selection of Dr. Baker as Act
ing President to succeed Dr. Hamer
schlag was not only logical but was 
thoroughly endorsed by all. In his 
three years service as Secretary, Dr. 
Bakerr has demonstrated his potentiali
ties as an executive to all who have 
come in contact with him. Occupy
ing an important capacity has not 
prevented him from keeping in close 
contact with both students and fac
ulty.
Dr. Hamerschlag has offices in the 
First National Bank Building, Pitts
burgh. He is in business as an ex
pert advisor and consul tant to busi
ness organizations.
MANY NEW IMPROVEMENTS NOT
ED ON CAMPUS DURING SUMMER
Tho campus has had a strenuous 
summor Hcason of activity. Now addi
tions and Improvements have boon 
made in tho different buildings, and 
oxtonslvo grading and Hooding opera
tions have boon carried on through
out tho campus.
A now coal bln has boon constructod, and tho hollor and engine rooms 
completely overhauled. Now piping, 
coal-handling systems and turbine 
pumps have boon Installed, making 
tho Carnegie Tech power plant one of 
tho finest in Pittsburgh.
A now ventilating system has been 
Installed in tho large Industry lec
ture room. Now plumbing and addi
tional heating has also been installed.
Extensive changes in the Pine Arts 
Building will add a number of addi
tional rooms, and give much needed 
floor space.
A new high pressure steam line 
is under construction iu tunnel under 
Industry Building.
The new bulletin boards will short
ly be in service. These are of a de
sign selected by the special Bulletin 
Committee, and will be a great im
provement over the old makeshift 
arrangement formerly in use.
The campus extending towrards 
Forbes street is being seeded and 
will soon be covered with grass.
The old wrooden walks at "the Boys 
Dorms have been replaced with con
crete. The gx-ounds will be top soiled 
and seeded, making a beauty spot of 
the Dormitory grounds.
will be benefited, but the outside 
world will be given far better ma
terial out of which to mould our 
American citizenship.
To sliow the extent to which this 
practice of "cribbing has come up 
for discussion among student organi
zations, and to show the opinion of 
these groups, tho following resolution 
has boon passed by the Studont Coun
cil and the other campus organiza
tions whose names appear bolow.
"WHEREAS, It is recognized that 
tho development of character and 
trustworthiness Is tho most important 
f.unct|on of higher education, and
"WHEREAS, This dovolopmont Is be 
lug liiuderod by tho growth of the 
practice of cribbing among tho stu
donts of this Institution.
"Bo IT RESOLVED; That the prac
tice of unlawful co-operation, or crib
bing on class work, on outsido work, 
and on final examinations be strongly 
condemned, and further, that we, as 
students of this institution, exert all 
the imluence in our power to root out 
this evil.
"Board of StudeiLt Activities, Student 
Council, Inter-Fraternity Council, Tau 
Beta Pi, Alpha Tau."
Signatures are coming from approx
imately thirty other student organi
zations.
TWO CARNEGIE MEN 
KILLED IN SUMMER
Both Were Good Students 
and Were Well Known 
About the Campus
Two Carnoglo men met death in 
tragic accidents during the summer 
vacation. Both ranked high scholas
tically and were prominent about the 
campus and will be missed by those 
with whom they associated.
Gerald Harper, one of the honor stu
dents of the 1922 graduating class, was 
burned to death in the fire which de
stroyed the commissary building of 
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company 
on Sunday Morning, September 3,1922.
Harper, who wras twenty-four years i 
old at time of his death, had come to 
Carnegie Tech to school from his 
mountain home in Maclcsville, West 
Virginia. He was very successful in 
his studies and graduated as an honor 
student in the 1922 class of the Col
lege of Engineering with a Bachelor 
of Science degree in Mechanical Eng
ineering. After leaving school in June, 
Harper worked in Pittsburgh and was 
with the Pennsylvania Railroad Com
pany since August 2 in the capacity 
of machinist.
Harper had made plans to continue 
his studies and had expected to teach 
this winter at the University of Ken
tucky.
The other student, a victim of an 
automobile accident, met his death on 
July 8 when a car in which he was 
riding was struck by a Canton-Akron Interurban car, near his home in 
Massillon, Ohio.
Mr. Wirier was a member of the 
class of 23, Department of Metallur
gical Engineering and a member of 
the Sigma Epsilon Phi fraternity.
PLEBE REGULATIONS
Plebos must conform to tho Fresh
man regulations. This is not a code 
designed for punishment; but to pro
mote school spirit. Without these 
rules there Would bo no real college 
atmosphere on tho campus. Every 
Plobo should be ready to carry out 
tills tradition wiiich will make him 
or her a better Carnegie man or womau. It is tho duty of tho Sopho
more class to see that the Plebe reg
ulations are enforced, also that the 
hazing rules are not violated.
AMERICAN CHEM. SOCIETY 
HOLDS CONVENTION HERE
The American Chemical Society 
held its sixty-fourth meeting at the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology dur
ing the week of September 4th. The 
Convention was formally opened with 
a general meeting at the Carnegie 
Hall on Tuesday, September 5.
The main work of the meeting was 
the giving of lectures in the Music 
Hall and the reading of papers in the 
Divisional Meetings. These were held 
in the Carnegie Institute of Technol
ogy and the papers were illustrated 
with slides The different divisions 
were as follows: Agricultural and
Food Chemistry, Biological Chemis
try, Physical and Inorganic Chemis
try, Fertilizer Chemistry, Industrial 
and Engineering Chemistry, Gas and 
Fuel Chemistry, History of Chemis
try, Cellulose Chemistry, Organic 
Chemistry, Petroleum Chemistry, 
Leather Chemistry, Sugar Chemistry, 
Dye Chemistry, and Rubber Chemis
try.
The foregoing list serves to show 
the great scope of the meeting. All 
the papers were short and interest
ing, although too technical for the 
understanding of the layman.
But the convention did not consist 
alone in unending lectures. Every 
evening saw some reception, smoker, 
or dinner for the delegates. Dinners 
for the men from the same college 
were numerous.
The wives of the delegates were en
tertained throughout the convention, 
while their husbands were adding to 
their chemistry lore. Luncheons, au
to drives, theater parties, dinners, and 
receptions served to interest the la
dies while the meetings were in pro
gress. The convention was closed 
with a trip to the Clairton works of 
the Carnegie Steel Company. Over 
nine hundred took the trip.
The National Convention of Metric 
Standardization was held Wednesday 
in collaborization with the meeting? 
of the A. C. S. Several resolutions 
were passed regarding the changing 
of the standards of measurements in 
this country.
Some of the discussions included 
such topics as the chemical qualities 
and composition of colors, in which 
the statement was made that some 
time in the future, chemistry would 
dominate the costume of the flapper. 
To the average reader, this statement 
may be difficult to realize. Neverthe
less, the fact was brought forth that 
even the artificial color of the flap
pers cheeks, called rouge for short, 
was obtained from coal-tal products: 
The chemists also cond6med the pres
ent style of long skirts. They claim 
that they are unsanitary, being a very 
good collector of dust, dirt, and dis
ease germs. Who knows what will 
be the appearance of the 1930 scien
tifically dressed flapper?
Another topic of discussion was the 
use of whisky for medicine. The 
chemists advocated a more liberal 
supply of whisky for physicians to 
prescribe, at a reasonable price and 
of a high quality. Many other topics, 
such as a new food product, kelp, for 
the cure of goitre, and new processes 
for the manufacture of wood alcohol, 
were given close discussion.
About twenty-five hundred delegates 
attended these meetings. Dr. J. H. 
James, head of our Chemical Engi
neering Department, was chairman of 
the Hotels and Dorm Committee.
Student Council To Furnish 
Uniforms For Cheer Leaders
Movement For Good 
Fellowship Started
All Students Are Asked to 
Exchange Greetings
How many have been surprised to 
seo what appears to be the dawn of a 
new spirit on the Carnegie Tech cam
pus? Perhaps students have been 
greeted by others on the campus who 
never previously spoke to them. The 
explanation traces back to an article 
appearing in the "Bill Says column 
of the Carnegie Tartan last spring.
After the appearance of that article 
letters were received from various 
sources. A graduate of one of the 
Eastern college wrote to the author 
of the article. Carnegie students com
mended the article. One of the soror
ities of the College of Fine Arts 
pledged their support in the interest 
of the girlB.
At this point the summer vacation 
interrupted the move already started; 
that of creating a feeling of better 
fellowship among the students by adjucating "speaking to or greeting 
every fellow student they met on the 
campus.
Last week a Senior sent out letters 
to one hundred students asking them 
to pledge themselves to greet every 
single fellow they met on the campus. 
This letter wras endorsed by promi
nent students and members of the ad
ministration. The letter and plan had 
the approval of the Editor-in-Chief of 
the Carnegie Tartan, the president 
of the Student Council and the Y. M. 
C. A. Cabinet, the Secretary of the 
Y. M. C. A., H. K. Kirkpatrick, acting 
Dean of Men, and Dr. Thomas S. Ba
ker, acting president of the school. 
What better endorsement than this 
could the plan have? The carrying 
out of the plan is up to the students. 
If some one greets you with a pleas
ant "good morning return the greet
ing whether you know him or not and 
further than that, be the one to give 
the greeting. One hundred students 
are going to start the movement; are 
you going to carry it out?
The Senior who agitated the move
ment has seen the downfall of a plan 
by tlie Plebes were required to speak 
to all upperclassmen. That should 
not be a class affairit is the duty of 
everyone to speak to his fellow stu
dent. The Plebes of the Class of '26 
certainly ought to do their part in de
veloping better fellowship among 
the students, as well as the classes 
of '23, *24 and 25.
The plan lias the best of endorse
ment; it has been given a good start; 
it is up to the student body to carry 
it out.
Remember nowgreet the first fellow you meet hereafter on the Car
negie campus. Make "better fellow
ship the key of the new school year.
sonnel of the icommittee is to be 
made up of men appointed by the 
presidents of the different colleges.
Anderson was appointed to look 
up and obtain suitable outfits for the 
cheer leaders.
The Student Council held its in
itial meeting of the year on Sunday 
afternoon with eight members pres
ent.
Dr. T. S. Baker, acting president of 
Camogie, met with the Council. In 
his remarks he emphasized the de
sire of the administration to co-op
erate with the Council in its work 
as the highest governing student 
body.
Mr. II. K. Kirlc-Patrick, acting 
dean 6f men, was also present and 
made a few remarks in connection 
with his office. He spoke of the. 
chapel period being lengthened to 
forty minutes, and of the desire of: 
the administration to have the hazing 
of Plebes limited entirely to the 
campus and the elimination of person
al injury. Mrs. Johnson has been 
chosen to act as house mother for 
the mens dormitories.
Zelt reported changes in the 
scholastic coaching plan. Classes are 
to be organized in the subjects in 
which the men in athletics have 
fallen behind. These classes are to 
be conducted by volunteers from the 
faculty and by members of the hon
orary scholastic fraternities. This 
coaching is to be continued through
out the year rather than just dining 
the season of the sport in which the 
man is engaged. Zelt was appoint
ed chairman of the committee which 
has this work in charge. The perOakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital...........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
MSMSJS/SMSMSJolMSJSJSMSJSMSJBMSMSfnl 
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
Question Shrouded In Mystery.
We believe that all people were put 
on earth for some useful purpose, but 
we also believe that nobody ever will 
find out what the purpose of some of 
them Is.Exchange.
OC H
.3605-3607 Forbes Street
Adjoining Strand Theater
Black Socks, 25c and 35c a pair 
Black Ties, 50c each 
New Fall Caps, $1.00 and $1.50
\

---------------------------------------------------

We&HESDAV, ?SEPTEMBER 20, 1322__________ THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
CHUCK GARLAND TO 
COACH TENNIS TEAM
Only Two Men From Last 
Years Squad Lost by 
Graduation
Carnegie Tech had a grand piece of 
luck when Chuck Garland, tennis 
champion of Western Pennsylvania, 
was secured to coach the tennis team. 
Tho annual fall tournament will soon 
bo held to give him an opportunity to 
size up the prospects for this years 
varsity.
Indications point that the coming 
tennis tournament, under supervision 
of Captain Swartz, will he the most 
interesting ever held on the Tartan 
courts.. The courts themselves are 
in perfect condition, hard as aspnait, 
and not a weed in sight. The nets 
will be mended and placed in first 
class shape, and Manager Krcisle will 
have plenty of help when it is neces
sary to mark them.
Looking over the old players we 
find Simpson, Marshall, Rhodes, Everhard, Hauser, Smith and Kemlnery in 
better shape than ever, but the new 
men, OConnor of Peabody High and 
others of equal reputation, are sure 
to press them to the limit for the two 
'beitth.9 now/ open on the varsity. Copely, of last years varsity, was lost by 
graduation. Duke Neville, last years 
captain, has moved to California, and 
will not return to Carnegie.
CORRECTION
a iMy Home | 
I Away From f 
! Home I
Y ----------------
*v That is wliat the felA lows call the Oakland 
| Methodist Church and 
y Community House.
| 3904 FORBES ST.
?Drop in and see for 
yourself.
LIFE
One has not really lived 
until he has gone abroad. 
No need to put off the 
trip until another year, 
The same rare Interest 
awaits.
Let us arrange every
thing for you, passage, 
letters of credit, side 
trips, through our Steam
ship Agency.
Mellon National Bank
Oliuer Smvthfield 
i.
= Compliments, 
I Skibo Inn 1
F[i
The Tartan wishes to make a <
 correction of a statement made v
 last spring, naming "Scotty *
 Henderson as Carnegie Techs v
 first football captain. Iiender- *
 son was captain or the 1907 *
 team. P. E. Foster preceded him v
 on the 1906 squad ?
*
On the Plaid Screen
CAPTAIN 1922 TARTAN SQUAD
By H. H. WILSON
CROSS COUNTRY TEAM 
TO HAVE NEW MEETS
The Plaid cross-country candidates 
are starting their preliminary train
ing this week. Coach Beeler has is
sued a call for new men and a goodsized squad is expected to start the 
season.
Captain Greenlaw and Dykeman, 
two of last years men, are back and 
in good shape. Miller, who has run 
some great races for Carnegie, may 
not be in the harness this year due 
to disabilities received last season. 
Among the other men who are ex
pected back are Mendenhall, Gotham, 
Gottwalls, Tubbs and MoKelvey. The 
incoming Plebe class should develop 
at least one or two good men.
A heavy schedule is in line for this 
fall. Prospective meets include La
fayette, Lehigh, Penn State, Cincin
nati, Allegheny. Syracuse Invitation 
Meet and the Intercollegiates.
Carnegie to Have Real
Freshman Grid Squad
OUR FOOTBALL OUTLOOK
With the opeuing game but a few days off, Tartan supporters are won
dering what Wally Steffen has up his sleeve. His 1922 squad faces one of 
the hardest schedules in the history of the institution. Countless rumors lire 
floating about the campus concerning the condition of the squad. There 
is practically a veteran team of first string men, but the weaknoss prob
ably lies in the matter of substitutes. The game with Waynesburg on Sat
urday will give the boys a chance to show their worth.
Carnegie Tech has an opportunity this year to make an even greater 
name for itself than it did last. It is meeting four of the best college teams 
in the country: Yale, Penn State, W. & J. and Notre Dame, outside of the 
six other games on the schedule. This means that the Plaid pigskin chasers 
must put forth still more of the old tight to make a successful season.
CAMP CUT-UPS
Doc Taylor came to camp late one night and found his bunk out in 
the cold outdoors with nothin but a stretch of sky for a roof. "Doc says 
the next time he expects to find it attached to the ond of a freight train, or 
either in Freeport's "Main Street.
They tell me Van Atta makes a swell janitor. He kept his room clean
ly swept all of the time!
Aside from that the aforesaid Van Atta tickles a mean banjo string. 
He makes one of them things sound like anything from a Jews harp to a 
violin.
We hear the Freeport Fire Department has all gone to smash since the 
boys left camp. It gave the squad some good road workouts. But the boys 
like a real fire and not so much smoke.
For the first time in the history of 
football at Carnegie Tech, a real 
Freshman football team will be placed 
on the field. This fact is made neces
sary by the adoption of the Fresh
man rule in 1923. Heretofore, while 
there has been a Freshman team, it 
has not been strictly such, as men of 
all classes were permitted to play, 
making it in truth a reserve team.
Last season, Coach Parks made a 
fair showing considering the fact that 
his men were always subject to trans
fer to the varsity squad, and were in 
fact often promoted in this manner. 
This year, with the new coach, Paul 
Beeler in charge, and a practically 
full varsity Bquad, Ruch a condition 
will not be in vogue, and therefore a 
much better opportunity will be given 
to develop a real representative 
Freshman team.
Coach Beeler, a newcomer at Car
negie Tech, made quite a reputation 
at Johnstown High School, where ho 
coached all branches of athletics. His 
football teams have always held a 
high rank in the high schools of the 
country, and last year, as a scoring 
machine, hi3 team ranked right at the 
top. Aside from this accomplishment, 
his track team defeated every high 
school team it met, and in the Car
negie Tech Inter-Scholastic Track 
Meet, held in the Schenley Oval, was 
a close second to Bellefonte Acadetoiy 
which finished first. Along this line, 
it is gratifying to know that Beeler 
will coach the Plaicl track men next 
spring.
The schedule as mapped out by 
Manager FerrtU will' give the team 
plenty of hard games, and should all 
be won, will mean a good reputation. 
To the four games so far signed up 
for, no doubt others will be added. 
The schedule so far is as follows:
Sept. 30Westinghouse Tech at 
Tech Field.
Oct. 7Slippery Rock Academy, 
Slippery Rock.
Oct. 21Bellefont,e Academy, Tech 
Field.
Nov. 18Indiana Norinal, Indiana.
The game with Bellefonte Academy 
will be played as a preliminary to the 
Varsity game with Thiel.
There are a number of Plebes in 
school, -who are at present out for the 
varsity, but will no doubt be turned 
over to Coach Beeler for further de
velopment along the Steffen plan. 
ROCKWELL TO BE NEW HEAD 
OF LIFE INSURANCE SCHOOL
Continued From Page One)
Dr. Ihrigs supervision for administra
tive. purposes, but has now been trans
ferred to the Division of 'Co-operative 
Research, where it will again func
tion under Dr. Binghams direction.
C. M. Stauft
3702 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
*
*
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
Knitted Sport Coats
For The College Man.
STETSON, TRIMBLE, EAGLE
MATS
$3.00 to $10.00
DAVIES and HUGHES
"Oakland's Mens Store
3615 FORBES STREET NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
THE GREEN GRIDIRON
The opening football game with Waynesburg College this Saturday is 
more than the opening of the Plaid football season. It is the opening to tho 
students and football public of Pittsburgh of Carnegie Tech's new $15,000 
football gridiron. Time and money has been spent unsparingly in an effort 
to make better football possible. This field has the French drainage sys
tem, and the surface forms a perfect turtle-baclc, covered with a heavy turf, 
which facts assure a dry field for each game. No more will such fiascos as 
water-polo be played in lieu of a football battle. No more will fast games 
be slowed up by continual slipping and sliding of a runner carrying the 
ball. From henceforth onward, it will always be possible to recognize your 
favorite player. The Carnegie Tech athletic association and Administra
tion should be congratulated on their co-operation in building this new 
field for the advancement of football in the district.
HILL AND DALE STUFF
The cross-country runners will soon be traversing the bridle paths of 
Schenley Park in their efforts to get down to form for another champion
ship season. With last years record still bright on the horizon, there is a 
chance for an even brighter outlook this fall. Several of the old men will 
form the nucleus of the team and it is hoped that a goodly number of 
Plebes will report at the first call for candidates. There will also be a 
need for a number of assistant managers from the Freshmen.
The tentative schedule looks good, particularly the fact that the Tar
tans will be entered in the Intercollegiates. This gives an opportunity for 
our team to show up beside some of the best teams in the east.
FROM THE SIDELINES
Among the visitors at football camp were the following: Bill Pfouts,
Guy, Wellington, "Doc Marks, Kennedy, Captain Dosey, Miss Brainerd and 
Grotefend, who coached the fellows in their studies; Ryan, Salzman, Reed, 
Slye and Rossbach, assistant managers, were also on hand helping at the 
tables and other odd jobs.
Its interesting to note that the following states are represented on our 
football squad: Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio, Alabama, West Virginia,
Missouri, Indiana and Connecticut.
ANOTHER COACHING PLAN
A new system of keeping a line on the scholastic standing of Tartan 
athletes and coaching them in their work is being put in practice this fall. 
The idea has been passed upon by the Student Council and is backed by 
the honorary fraternities. A committee from tho Council has boon appointed 
to look after this. There will be a man from each of the threo colleges 
who will find out each week about the standing of the athletes in their 
college and report it to the chairman of the Council committee. Then if 
any are back in their work, either the help of students or of mombers of 
the faculty will bo enlisted in coaching them. This system will not only 
be in effect this fall but throughout the whole year. Professor Jones or 
the College of Industries is the originator of this new plan to further Plaid 
athletics.
Carnegie Tech Football Schedule
SEASON 1922
Walter P. Steffen.......................................................................................Head Coach
J. L. Anderson ............................................................................................... Captain
Victor Stromqui8t ..............................................................................Student Manager
Frank H. Haaren..............................................................................Graduate Manager
SEPTEMBER 23rd
Waynesburg College ............................................................................ TECH FIELD
SEPTEMBER 30th
Yale .....................I...................................................................................... New Haven
OCTOBER 7th
Geneva ..................................................................................................... TECH FIELD
OCTOBER 14th
Wash-Jeff .......................................................................................... Washington, Pa.
OCTOBER 21st
Thiel College ......................................................................................... TECH FIELD
OCTOBER 28th
Grove City ............................................................................................... TECH FIELD
NOVEMBER 4th
Allegheny ............................................................................................... TECH FIELD
NOVEMBER 11th
Penn State .................................................................................... State College, Pa.
NOVEMBER 18th
St. Bonaventure ..................................................................................... TECH FIELD
NOVEMBER 25th
Notre Dame ...................................................................................... FORBES FIELD
SELECTION OF YOUNG RICHARDS
ON DAVIS TEAM CAUSED WONDER
James L. Anderson, captain and 
half back of the Plaid 1022 football 
team, is one of the msot popular men 
on the campus. I-Ie has played t.wo 
years on the varsity, gaining consid
erable preliminary experience in his 
one season on the Freshman squad.
"Andy comes from Monongaliela 
High School. As art athlote ho does 
not stick to football, having represent
ed Carnegie on the varsity basket ball 
team. He is a member of the Class 
of 1923, taking a course in Metal
lurgical Engineering. He is also a 
member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra
ternity and several class societies.
FOOTBALL SEASON OPENS 
WITH WAYNESBURG COLLEGE 
SATURDAY AT TECH FIELD
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
turn, of practically the entiro 1921 
team, which in itself ought to prom
ise of at least as good a toaim as last 
year, tho new men are showing only 
mediocre football ability. This fact, 
means that the loam will have very 
little resorve strongtli to depond upon 
if some of tho first string mon are 
knocked out. This cannot help but 
work to the disadvantage of tho 
team's showing against such groat 
teams as Yale, Wash-Jeff, Penn State 
and Notro Dame, not to mention the 
rost of tho loams to bo mot who al
ways bring a strong, fighting toam to 
face tho Tartans.
The loss of such 'mon as .Too Mills, 
Skltch" Hondorson and Sawyer can
not help but bo folt. Tho experience 
of Hondorson had placod him in tho 
class occupied by Carnegie Toeh's 
most brilliant and dependable lines
man, and his position at guard will bo 
especially hard to fill. So far, Coach 
Stoffon has boon unablo to find a. man 
to illl his position In anything lllco a 
satisfactory manner, but COA hopod 
a good man will bo found ore tho 
opening gamo with Waynosburg. Joo 
Mills was fast developing Into a 
plunging back. At tho first of hist 
season ho lacked tho ability of Brum
baugh to plclc out holos, but towards 
tho ond of tho season tills dof.ool, had 
practically disappeared, and ho was 
considered ono of the Plaid's most 
promising back field men, Tho fact 
that ho tipped the scales at close to 
200 pounds will take a loti of much 
nooded woight out of tho backflold, 
which fact will bo folt very much this 
season when running against such 
teams as Ponn State, Wash-Jeff, 
Notro Dame and Yalo. Sawyers di
versified ability at end runs, lino 
bucks, forward passing and interfer
ence will bo missed very much, 
i To take tho places of these mon 
Co.ach "Wally Stoffen has throe al
ternatives. Either he can shift his 
old men around; fill in with tiie re
serve strength of last season; or use 
some of the new men fresh from high 
school football. More than likely a 
combination of the first two will be 
used, as they already fully understand 
the Steffen system, and the Coach al
ready knows what each man can and 
will do.
Among the new men who look 
promising, and give indications of de
veloping into good men are Moran, 
Mefort, Bastian, Beede, Wayne, Wal
ker, Khristoff, Amans, Van Atta, Con!- *? *? *i* $* {* $*
** PLEBES AND SOPHS *
NEEDED FOR ASSISTANT v 
v FOOTBALL MANAGERS *
I* Plebes and Sophomores desir- * 
v mg to try out for assistant foot- - 
! ball managers should report to *J* 
Manager Stromquist at tho Field :* 
I" House. This is your best opporv tunlty to get. in line for a manugers job and earn a. C.
ALLJENNIS TOURNAMENT 
OPENED TO ALL STUDENTS
The annual fall tennis tournament 
will bo held on the Margaret Morri
son courts beginning Monday, Sep
tember 25tih. All Freshmen and upper-classmon are eligible provided 
they are members of the tennis club, 
and have registered their names un
der the entry list which will be closed 
at 1:30 p. m. Friday, September 22nd. 
Entries will bo received at tho Grad
uate Manager's office.
Kell, a member of the team for two 
years won the cup in the 1920 tourna
ment, while Everhart, the winner of 
the 1921 cup was a new man at Car
negie Tech last year. All new men 
should keep that in mind and not 
ha,vo cold feet simply bocauso they 
have never played in a tournament. 
New studonts are urged to tako ad
vantage of this opportunity to dem
onstrate their ability since this tour
nament will bring out material for 
this years Freshmen and varsity 
teams.
As usual a cup will be presented to 
tho winning player and considerable 
montlon givon to the runners-up.
Tonnls as a pastime sport at Car
negie Tech Is stoadlly stopping into 
the limelight, and thero is always a 
place on the toam tor tho follow who 
stays with tho gamo and makes at 
least a favorable showing in his 
matches.
For the lutorost or now studonts It 
is well to mention that the vnrsity 
tonnls toam has hold tho Trl-Stato 
Championship for tho past threo years. 
This year tho team Is under a handi
cap by losing two of Its host mon.
New mon, find out whoro Prank 
Haaron, tho Qraduato Manager, has 
his ofllca in tho Central Building, 
plane your name on tho tournament 
ontrios before Friday of this woolc.
nor, Kramor, C. J. Anderson, Donohoo, Christoff and Lamb.
Tho lino from end to ond will more 
than llkoly remain intact, with tho 
exception of "Skitoh" Hondorson at 
right tackle. Al Irwin seems to 
liavo the proforoneo at center, flank
ed on both sidos by Rosonbloom and 
a new man, with a bare possibility 
of shirting "Cy" Comfort Into the 
shoos made vacant by tho graduation 
of Skltch" Henderson. This will nocossltato tho playing of a now man 
in Comfort's place of right; tackle. 
Hugh Sprinkle will ably tako earo of 
Ills old position of left tackle. AL ends 
thero seems to he nouo who can oust 
Pottor and Goddon, with Newman 
holding his own as ono of, tho host! 
ends In this sootlon of tho country, 
and Is showing his old ability at drag
ging down forward passes. Robortson 
and Wolrmnn are calling signals from 
tho quarterback position with their 
well-known. 'aibllLtly, and Brumbaugh 
is just as good as over. Captain Jim
mie Anderson shows prospects of hav
ing tiie greatost season of liis 
career at Carnoglo Tech. Tho other 
position made1, vacant by Sawyors 
absence is still a question of much 
discussion and experimentation, but 
it is hopod ono of tho new men will 
show sufficient stuff to fill the va
cancy.
Taylor, Szold, Pittman, Griffon, McCollulm, Zelt, Moessner and Kalblch 
of last years reserve and Freshman 
team are back and giving the varsity 
men a fight for their position, and no 
doubt will be given plentiful opportun
ity to make good. All oi these men 
are good for another year at Carnegie 
Tech, and no doubt will make good 
mon both this season and next.
WAYNESBURG TO BE 
FIRST OPPONENT
Much Propaganda Out 
About Condition 
of Players
WuynostmvK Collogo is briffiglns a 
ton-m, according to tho newspapors, 
full of cripples. Propaganda may be 
all right, but It will not fool suchju wise 
man as Coach "Wally" St elf an, tho 
dean of Carnegie Tocli football ar
tists, who is taking no chances and 
preparing for this game just as If it 
wore Harvard who is invading tho 
Tech football field this Saturday.
Coach Frank N. Wolf of Waynes
burg boasts of a heavy squad of about 
fifty men, which makes our little squad 
35 men look small indeed. This squad 
is very enthusiastic, and go at their 
work with a dash and vim which 
bodes ill for competition. At tiie pres
ent time about four men are making 
strong bids for the pivotal position. 
"Chonny Williamson, Butler, and 
OMalley scorn to have an equal 
chance so tar. Other men, who are 
counted upon to perform good work 
against tho Plaid are Masters, Reid, 
Crow, Anderson and Gregory.
The game will be called at 3 p. m. 
sharp. All students are expected to 
sit in tho student cheeriug section on 
tho far side of the field. Reserve 
seats can bo had upon application to 
the Graduate Manager. Get them 
eax-ly and bo assured of a good seat 
for you and tiie girl.
TARTAN GRIDDERS MERIT 
CARNEGIE MEDALS FOR WORK 
AS VOLUNTEER FIREMEN
(Continued From Pago One.) 
dashed forward with tho water wagon. 
Excltemont reigned supreme!
Serious Casualties Result.
So great was tho pace set by tho 
heroes propolling the cart that sorlous consequences almost resulted. 
Enraged by tho progress of. those who 
wero fighting tho fire, the ownor of 
tho barn, seeing his insurance van
ishing in a stroalm of aqua purs, dash* 
ocl forward to Impede tho approach 
of tho fire onglno. But this meant 
nothing to our young horoes. With 
a cry of warning, tho intorforonco 
pilod In from tho onds. Thoro was a 
muffled thud, a subdued cry, and a 
dull thump, and tho panting warriors 
dashed on and ovor his prostrate body. 
A doctor summoned to tho sceno pro
nounced It a case of a broken leg 
and doclarod he was lucky to havo 
gotten off so easily, so groat was tho 
spood of tho looting flromen.
Blaze Under Control.
When at last the actual spot of tho 
blaze was reached, somo delay was 
experienced before the lire could bo 
discovered. Maintaining all the while 
I an uncanny calmness, each griddor 
filled his poclcets with water from tho 
onglno, and east the contents upon 
tho (Ire, Completely routed, tho blaze 
was at onoo reducod to smoldering 
ashes, and a tumultuous cheer went, 
up from tho assembled multitude, 
Carnoglo Medal Sought.
The heroes returned to camp lalo' 
that ovonlng, not In tho least affected' 
by their thrilling experience. A Car
negie modal has boon applied for the* 
lire horses, and tho fact remains that 
tin? bravo gridiron battlers would havo 
shown up exceedingly woll al, a fire, 
hud thoro boon one.
THIRTEEN CARNEGIE MEN
TAKE CAMP VAIL COURSE
(Contlnuod Prom Pago Ono.) 
of seeing tho l&rgost telephono ex
change In tho world.
Usually tho regular military classes 
and lectures wore ovor by 3:00 p. 
m and big army trucks took all to 
Long Branch for a swim in the ocean.
At Camp Vail tills summer olectrical onfclneorh|g studonts of tho 
following institutions were represent
ed: Ohio State University, GO; M. I. 
T., <14; CjornQll, 13; Carnegie, 13: 
Yale, 1.
Progreso Through Thought.
We should round every day of stirs 
ring action with an evening of thought. 
We learn nothing of our experience ex
cept we muse upon It.Bovee.
In selecting Vuxcent Richards as a member of the team to meet the chal
lengers in defense of the Davis cup, the United States Lawn Tennis associa
tion caused comments of surprise among followers of the game. It had been 
expected that the veteran Washburn would be chosen. Dick'Williams, upper 
left, has been appointed captain of the team. Richards is at the upper right. 
Below, left to right, are the two "Bills, Little Bill Johnston and Big Bill 
Tiiden.
FALATFATEF NI SOOUOR ALMALj FBWLY
Yrs. on
Name.Prep School. Position.Age. Varsity. Wgt.Height. Colleqe.C. .T. Anderson.................................Sheffield Prep.Center........................ 2501705:11Ind.J. L. Anderson...................................Monongahela HighH.B...................... 2421005:0L. Amans..........................................West High, Akron, O.Back.............. 2001555:5Ind.C. C. Brumbaugh.............................Tarentum HighFullback .................. 2221055:8Eng.Lancaster HighHalfback ...............01555:0ArtsIX V. Beede .....................................S. High, YoungstownTackle............ 190ICO5:7Johnstown HighHalfback...............01405:7
G. L. Comfort .................................Harrisburg TechTackle .................. 2121905:8Ind.P. I. Connor.....................................Johnstown HighCenter.................... 2201755:10W. W. Donahue .............................EdgewoodHalfback ............................ 1801005:7
Parkersburg HighGuard .................. 1901805:10Eng.Olean, N. Y.( High-End...................... 21.31005:9Ind.
Canton, O., HighEnd.......................... 2 021505:11Ind.A, C. Irwin .......................................Washington HighCenter ................ 2231485:7Ind.D. M. Kramer .................................Haydenfleld, N. J., HighEnd........... 2001555:11D. B. Kalablch ...............................Armenia HighGd or Tide............... 2001955:11B. j; Khristoff .................................Johnstown HighTackle .................... 2001750:1Ind.G. Lamb ...........................................Grlnnoll HighHalfback .................... 1901705:9Ind.W. W. McCollum ...........................S. High, YoungstownF.D.................. 2101055:11Ind.
. 1901705:10Ind.T. P. Moessner ...............................Mow Ha von HighTackle.................. 2302055:10P. D. Moran ....................................Boone, la., High...Fullback............... 21.01725:10
.Sterling, 111., HighHalfback............. 23I.1505:8Ind.
. Wellsburg, W. Va HighEnd.... 2311700:1.Eng.J. A. Robortson ...............................Allegheny HighQuarterback........... 2021505:8
M. A. Rosonbloom ..........................Oloan, N. V., HighGuard.................. 2421825:10
J. P. Rold .......................................... Mlddlobury HighGuard or Tackle.. 2201805:11Ind.
H. O. Sprinkle ...............................Wobb City, Mo., HighTackle......... 2521950:2Eng.
 Gary, Ind., HighI-Ialfbaclc................ 2511085:9Arts
11005:11ArtsR. N. Van Atta ...............................Blnghampton Cent. HighBack-----01005:7Ind.
01805:11Ind.
01750:1Arts
1800:0Ind.
0200020100020102010101000200

---------------------------------------------------

R.E.A.IN of Co-operativo Research: 
Gladys Boono, Birmingham Univer
sity,, liilund, '10, Assistant Professor, 
Bureau 01 Rorsonnol Research; Joseph
will pay you to 
listen to thismusic
ALL over the country the whistle is blowing for 
i v the kick-off, the start of that great game 
another college year.
Be on your toes when the whistle blows. A good 
start will carry you well on toward your goal.
Let the football candidate start by working 
away till his muscles ache from bucking the line.
Let the aspirant for manager put in careful 
study of his teams needs, always eager to help 
 arranging a trip or carrying a pail of water.
Let the publications man be alert for news and 
tireless in learning the details of editorial work.
AVhatcver activity you come out for, crowd a 
lot of energy into these early Fall days.
 And if a good start helps win campus honors, 
it helps win class room honor's, too. The sure way 
to be ii)] in your work is to aim now for regularity 
at lectures, up-to-date note-bookx and particular 
attention to I he early chapters of text-books, thus 
getting a grip on the basics.
This is best in the long run, andselfishlyit is 
easiest in the long run. That is, iflife after college is 
made easier by the things a bigger income can buy.
y Published in \ 
' the interest of Elec
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
he helped by what
ever helps the 
\ Industry.
Sitici 1S69 makers and distributors or electrical equipment
Number 21 of a series
rENUSPENCILS
"COR the student or prof., 
the eupcrb VENUS outrivala all for perfect pencil 
work. 17 black degrees and 
3 copying.
American Lead Pencil Co.
axo Fifth Are.
NcwYorle
Tht
larrnt ulllnt 
quality ftntU 
In the world
Radio and Electrical Supplies.
STORAGE BATTERIES 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANr 
4521 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig Street.
Phone Schenley 4545.
California 
will have 
ment than;
THE COLLEGIATE SIX 
ORCHESTRA 
Dance Music Specialties. 
EVERETT HUGHES 
Hiland 858.
5224 LIBERTY AVENUE
PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNE8DAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1922
FIRST PUPPET WILL 
BE OUT NEXT WEEK
SfcalEF Plans For Nine Issues 
This School Year
ALUMNI 11
About tho time that our greon-hatSad veiling brother have becni coax
ed, vrfhoodled and cajoled out of tholr 
uxammor's oarnlngs, flOmo bird ovorfcttuAa 3US Joan and Hilda a pretty Ilt-Afto card, Lea see," ho/, the V. I!., 
lUhia act mo back two buck; wliaM 
H. nood for, anyway?" Ho take an 
dUUdt look and then doe Homo very 
aociiUent hiyih school thinking. "Why, 
til strz 'Puppet/ now wjiddlnoll Is PupA-nd the anawor la: What Isn't
jPtoppoL" There 1 nothing Puppet 
mfcnit If youre a atudont It's a text 
utter than tho beat; If you're 
Jot it vlBitlng brother, it'a tho'ooncafactor between tho thoory of 
ttbo cnthoto and tho reason why girla 
woflur pearl buttona on tliolr gaiters, 
B*i at uford, Puppet la Curneglo Techa 
CoHlego comic magazine.
jpuppot Ih temperamental. Last 
ywAt ho was a lady dog In a dog ken 
nttdj with a litter of pupstho dog, not 
hft Kennel. Tho chlof pup so ao, ao 
it muni bo. The year before he wan 
ai tin man, with wooden legs. Tlilij 
3fwur lie's an enginea Bllde-valve, 
awfclvoey Under niclcel-plated, rearmraled, Buper-slobgloberous example 
off Itfio motor buJldora art. By Clirlstnsnia Puppet may be a lollypop, but 
uritfililt now lies an engine, and to show 
till hla paces lie has managed to kick 
tflmKUjch with a self-starting number 
m2mt week.
Ua the past Puppet has walked but 
bAk times during tho school year, but 
tihus Eojison ho is schodulod to appear 
jra mine different acts. The llguro 
mime, in the opinion of last year's edi
tion. in but ono more than eight, in 
amr opinion it is almost twice as 
wtwny im six. On account of Puppet 
ftaaw; usod more the chances of Ills 
wearing out are greater. That means 
TOjpailra. Wo liopo many of them will 
lto applied by tibia year' Freshman 
Puppot offers an opportunity 
liar ftJho expression ol) talontod humor 
fin <nrjritlng and art. Last year Puppet 
wimo out sixth In tho Judgo's College 
Wila Contost. This is but an idea of 
tSi rating tho outside world placos on 
ftbo work of tho men and women who 
Iuito helped build tho book. Every offort 1*111 l>o made to ralso the standard 
fthia year, but now blood Is needed. 
JPwppot's columns are open to anyfctwly aund ovorybody, who can furnish 
fflio needed drawings and copy. Pull 
credit 1 glvon for all work. Those 
who have worked on tho book for 
Rhmoo months are ellglblo to election 
m the iilufC and at tho end of tho yoar 
the official Puppot lcoy and are 
Jlwllicr eligible to oloctlon to ono of 
ttbo nixeoutlve posltlona. Election 1 
nmuSo ou merit, only and in this lino 
quantity and quail ty of work subjinllted 1 of first Importance.
JT'iuppot In fair, Impartial and conftmo'lliivd by no aot, oroed or clan. Ho 
wjioiia itho bnst and bo *
M men and woiuon. 
mal weeks P 
 Idea of 1
Oet your season tickets! Avail 
J* yourself to get In on the ground 
floor of all Plaid Athletic con *5* 
tests. Larger crowds than over 
before are anticipated, and as *5* 
never before, the facilities are 
thore to take care of these ?* 
crowds, Tho non-holder of. season tlcketa may be out*oMuek.
Ho ALUMNI, you want to aee 
thoao games; therefore Bend In 
that $10.00 chock to cover NOW !* 
 youll bo sorry If you dont!
MID-WEST CLUB TO HOLD 
A MEETJNG FOR NEW MEN
A meeting of tho Mid-West Associa
tion, Junior Clan of tho Alumni, will 
take place very shortly. The MidWest Association Is an organization 
of the students living north of the 
Mason-Dlxon lino and west of Ohio. 
It works In conjunction with the 
Alumni VLGIS.NOIXX any tries to make 
tho now students from the West and 
Mid-West at home In the Institution.
Several smokers aro given through 
tho school yoar. When tho call comei, 
for the first meeting come out and be 
with us.
SCHOOL ANNOUNCES 
SCHOLARSHIP LIST
Reward For Exceptional 
Work Performed 
in School
MANY CHANGES IN
PERSONNEL OF FACULTIES
(Continued From Pago Ono.)
Colonel Thomas If. Cunningham,
Professor of Military Science and 
Tactics, and Head of tho It. O. T. C.
Tho following havo also been ap
pointed to tho faculty: College of
EngineeringE. B. Phillips, Georgia 
Institute of Technology, 17, Instine-1 the son of John Howard Harris, the 
for of Electrical Engineering; Elmer | late president of Bucknell University, 
B. Plapp, Purdue University,, '10, In- ia tt native of Lowlsburg, Pa. He
U. Yarbrough, University of Texas, 
'10, University of Chicago, '10, As
sistant Professor, Department of Edu
cation and Psychology.
Department of Military Science and 
Tactics, It. O. T. C.: Captain Ralph 
E. ruse, Assistant Professor.
Stanley N. Harris Is a new Instruct
or In mathematics In tho Division of 
General Studie. Mr. Harris, who is
structor of Mathematics; John M. 
Daniels, University or Pittsburgh, 22, 
Instructor of Mathematics; Raymond 
IC. Bowdon, Instructor In Metallurgy.
College of industries: James P.
Warner, Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, '18, Instructor of Electrical 
Equipment and Installation; Harold 
C. Beard, Ohorling College, 1921, In 
structor of Industrial Science.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege: Margaret F. Abbott, Columbia,
'22, Instructor of Household Econom
ics; Lillian S. Kennedy, Southwestern 
College, '17, Instructor of Nutrition; 
Genevlevo Fisher, Columbia, 14, Pro
fessor of Vocational Home Economics 
In Teacher Training; Cocile Van 
Stoenberg, University of Chicago, 13, 
and. Columblu, 22, Assistant Profes
sor of Costume Economas; Elinor 
Francisco, Columbia Teachers' Col
lege, Instructor of Trade Dressmak
ing; Mary V. Blshoff, Wellesley Col
lege, 18, Assistant Instructor of Sec
retarial Studies; Gertrude Baton, 
Carnogie Institute of Technology, 22, 
Assistant Instructor of Solenco; Ray
mond W. Foory, University of Penn 
sylvanla, 22, Instructor of Accounts.
Division of General Studies: Leon 
ITanderson, Swarlhmore, 20, Assist
ant Professor of Industrial Econom
ics; George 13. Singer, Jr., University 
of Ponnsyllvanla, 22, Instructor of 
Industrial Economics; Alfred C. Far
rell, University of Michigan, 22, In
structor of Industrial Economics; 
Gladys E. Riggs, Unlvorslty of- Wis
consin, 21, InBHiClor of Modern 
Languages; William M. Blackburn, 
Furman College, '21, Instructor of 
English; V. 13. Wlndt, Cornell, 21,, 
Pilncoton, 22, Instructor of English; 
Ryllls C. Alexander, Ohio State Unl
vorslty, 21., Instructor of English; 
George A. Parks, Park College, '21, 
and Stato University of Iowa, 22, In
structor of Mathematics; Stanloy N. 
Harris, Biiicknoll, 18, Instructor of 
Mathematics; Susan Karpova, In
structor of Danclnir.
graduated from Bucknell University 
In 1018 with Bachelor of Philosophy 
and Bachelor of Science degrees, 
Later lio studied at the Massachu
setts Institute of Technology. Dur
ing the summer of 1920 he was in
structor In surveying at the StevenB 
Institute of Technology and for the 
pant two years has been instructor 
in mathematics at Broaddus College.
George R. Patterson, who has been 
appointed Instructor In mathematics 
in the Division of Genoral Studies, is 
a native of Barnesville, Ohio. He 
graduated! from the Uln^vorslty (of 
Pittsburgh and studied for three years 
at Carnegie Tech.
Other new appointments in the Di
vision of General Studies are: Val
ontine B. Wlndt, instructor in Eng
lish; Ryllis C. Alexander, Instructor 
In English; William M. Blackburn, in
structor in English; George A. Parks, 
instructor in mathematics; Leon Hen
derson, assistant professor of indus
trial econo'mlcs; George P. Singer, Jr., 
instructor in industrial economics; 
and Alfred C. Farrell, Instructor in 
industrial economics.
In the College of Engineering, John 
M. Daniels bus boon appointed in
structor in civil engineering. Mr. 
Daniels is a native of Blairsviile, Pa., 
and now makes his home In Freeport, 
Pa. He studied at tho Universities of 
Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh and was 
graduated from tho latter institution 
in 1922 with a Bachelor of Science 
degree In civil engineering. Mr. Dan
iels has, at various times, been em
ployed by the Pennsylvania Railroad 
and tho Westlnghouse Electric and 
Manufacturing Company.
In tho Colldgo of Industrios, James 
P. Warner has been appointed in
structor in tho electrical equipment 
and Installation department. Mr. War
ner graduated from the Pennsylvania 
State Normal School In 1910 and from 
Carnegie Tech In 1916 with a Bache
lor of Science dogroo. Mr. Warner 
i In Pittsburgh and has for yoars 
1 by Bovoral large olec'. and Installation conv
MISS MARY L. BROWN 
NEW DEAN OF WOMENTesting Equipment 
For California Tech
One hundred and thirty scholar
ships have been given to Carnegie 
Btudents for the year 1922-23, with an 
aggregate value of nearly $lf>,000. 
Tho awards are based chiefly upon 
tho work done In school and were 
distributed aL follows:
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS 
Founders Scholarshlpc.
O. Ilelfenbeln, G. Hoag, Gretclien 
Hoffman, Dorothy Miller, Sarah
Moone, M. Dale Smith.
Pittsburgh Honor Scholarshipc.
W. V. Louba, M. Morganstern, Margarot Welland.
FroBhmen.
Kathleen Ddmpaey, Katherine Iiessfler, Wallace Frost, Josephine Mes
ser, Margaret NorrlB, Max Silverman, 
Harriet Blose, Helen Gardner.
R. W. Spring Memorial Scholarship.
E. W. Klee.
Women's Southern Club.
Burdette Kappes, Chas. McCarthy. 
Richard Minefield, II, Drama Alumni. 
(Second Semester.)
John Willard.
Stago and Play Scholarship.
Ellen Lowe.
Christine Miller Clemson Scholarship.
Lydia Heller.
Night School Scholarships.
Rosamond F. Bruce, George Gregus, Mae iSweeney, Karl Weber. 
Howlett Fellowship.
George Heppenstahl.
Private Donor.
Teasdale Barney, J. J. Ke.il.
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING 
Founders Scholarships.
Seniors.
G. A. Coburn, A. A. Karkalas, A. 
Marthens, J. Scliimmel.
Juniors.
J. W. Jones, F. J. Lamb, W. J. Ly
man.
Sophomores.
C. P. Barnes, F. D. Rossini. 
Pittsburgh High School Scholarships.
Sophomores (Continued).
S. Bond, J. G. Bright, D. Gardner, 
W. C. Heoht, F. M. McClelland, F. C. 
Smith, L. P. Stlm'mler.
Sophomores (new awards).
M. 13. Feldman, K. Gibson, A. Grodner, M. T. Inman, M. Jacob.
Freshmen.
L. Barbrow, W. R. Bernardi, C. L. 
Brown, Jr., A. C. Campbell, J. E. 
Crawford, G. R. Davis, A. Harrison, 
G. W. Keown, J. H. Kuhns, R. W. 
Leonard, II. IT. List, L. C. Lustenberger, It. D. Lustenberger, W. F. Muel
ler, J. J. Murray, M. II. G. Notting, A. 
C. Patterson, G. F. Pittman, J. C. Rob
inson, F. K. Roseimvelg, L. E. Ross, 
S. Schoenberg, E. W. Wright, W. Wor
cester.
DIVISION OF CO-OPERATIVE
RESEARCH 
Founders Scholarships 
Research Bureau for Retail Training.
Harry M. Babcock, Helen Baker, 
Ida Germalno Beauchamp, Violet 
Blakely, Emmet Joseph Buckles, Nanon L. Carr, Alice E. Dibble, Martha 
Louise Dunkol, Francoso Roma 
Evans, Goorglana W. Hathaway, Edith 
M. Hubbard, Miriam Edna Klopinger, Edward J. Warmblor, Jane Wright.
Bureau of Personnel Research.
Myron D. Pilco, Grace E. Mnnson, 
Clydo Wykor.
Educational Research.
John McClain.
The following scholarships have 
not yet boon awarded:
Research Bureau for Retail Train
ing, 1; Bureau of Porsonnel Research, 
I; Bin'oau or Educational Research 1.
MARGARET MORRISON CARNE
GIE COLLEGE 
Founders Scholarships.
Marcia lioynton, Kathryn Black
ford, Lillian Coleman, Dorothy Grant, 
Eleanor Martin, Anna Weber.
Victory Scholarship.
Martha McLaughlin.
ALUMNAE SCHOLARSHIPS 
Harriet Ellis Memorial.
Frances Hess.
Parry Memorial.
Anna Klllluger.
Pittsburgh Honor Scholarships.
Margaret AlleU, Carol L. Foight, 
Kathryn Gearing, Dorothy McConagliey, Catherine Moren, Mildred Moren, Grace Munhall, Wilma Stiner, 
Dorothy Weber.
Freshmen.
Margaret D. Connor, Kathleen Gal
lagher, Estelle Garibaldi, Hester Grif
fin, Mabel McKee, Helen Lloyd, Jane 
Nern, Camilla ODonnell, Mary J. 
Whalen, Bessie Yuspruch.
Extra Scholarships.
Elizabeth Angermyer, Anna Claw
son.
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES 
Founders' Scholarship.
Seniors.
W. Douglass, B. Greenlaw.
Juniors.
M. R. Schell, E. Sowers.
Sophomores.
A. S. Andrews, K. Komman.
Freshman.
Richard Hawke.
Miss Maiy D. Brown is the new 
dean of women, succeeding Mrs. Laura 
W. L. Scales, who Is now engaged in 
an executive capacity at Smith Col
lege. Miss Brown is a native of Lex
ington, Virginia, and graduated from 
Smith College in 1918 with a Bache
lor of Arts degree and from the Uni
versity of Missouri in 1919 with a 
Master of Arts degree. Wiiile at the 
University of Missouri, Miss Brown 
was employment secretary at the Y. 
W. C. A. In 1920-21, Miss Brown 
served as assistant to the dean of 
women and as instructor in sociology 
at Ohio State University. In 1921-22 
Miss Brown continued as assistant to 
the dean of women at Ohio State, and 
during the second semester was the 
acting dean. Miss Brown has had 
'much experience m her work and pos
sesses an excellent record. She will 
have full supervision over the moral, 
religious, and social welfare of the 
women students.
Miss Gladys Boone has been ap
pointed assistant professor In the Bu
reau of Personal Research. Miss 
Boone was formerly in charge of in
dustrial relations courses at Bryn 
Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Miss Genevieve Fisher is the pro
fessor of vocational home economics 
in teacher training in, the Margaret 
Morrison College. This new position, 
which Mi3s Fisher occupies, will help 
to meet the growing demand for teach
er training courses in vocational sub
jects. Miss Fisher is a native of Cov
ington, Illinois, and graduated from 
the University of Chicago in 1912 and 
from the Teachers College at Col
umbia University in 1914 with a 
Bachelor of Science degree. Miss 
Fisher possesses a wide range of ex
perience, having served ten years as 
teacher in the Southern Missouri Nor
mal Schools, in the Illinois State Nor
mal University, in the East Illinois 
State Normal, and in the School of 
) Education at the University of Chi
cago. Miss Fisher was in charge of 
household economics teachers train
ing at Iowa State College for four 
yoars, and for three years was in 
the service of the United p&tates Gov
ernment as agent for the Federal 
Board of Vocational Education.
Important changes in the.Carnegie 
Tech faculty will include three new 
members of the household economics 
department of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegio College. The newcomers 
will include an acting head and two 
instructors. Miss Plarriet F. Glendon 
of Chicago will take charge as assist
ant professor and acting head, and 
Misses Marguerite F. Abbott and Lil
lian -S. Kennedy will serve as instruc
tors. The new appointments replace 
Miss Helene M. Pape, former head, 
and Miss Honora English, who will 
join the faculty at Iowa State Uni
versity, and Miss Beulah C. Ilotch, 
former assistant instructor, who is 
taking a years vacation at her 13os 
ton home.
Miss Glendon comes to Carnegie 
Tech with wide experiences and well 
grounded educational qualifications. 
Her present home is in Chicago, where 
she has studied and also taught. She 
is a native of Covington, Ivy., a gradrtwito of Stout Institute in 1911, and 
of the University of Chicago in 1919, 
with degree of Ph. B. In 1911-12, 
Miss Glendon was head of the house
hold economics department In the 
Louisiana St*to Normal school, and 
the following yoar was teacher In the 
Gary, Ind. High School. Her last po
sition was with tho Lewis Institute of 
Chicago, as head of tho normal de
partment. This past year Miss Glen
don has been a student at Columbia 
University, where she was awarded 
hor masters dogroo.
Both Miss Abbott and Miss Konnody aro well equipped through ex
perience to take up their new work 
here. Miss Abbott is a native of Ad
rian, Mich. She was graduated from 
Thomas Normal School, Detroit, in 
1913. For two years she taught house
hold economics at the Little Rock, 
Ark. High School. From 1915 to 1919 
Miss Abbott was director of the house
hold economics department at Hills
dale College, Mich. She then enterod 
Columbia University, and this year 
graduated, with her degree of B. S., 
and a diploma in leaching of house' 
hold arts.
Miss Keunedy is a native of Win
field, Kan., and a graduate of South
western College in 1917, with an A. 
B. degree. Last year she was grad
uated from the teachers college of 
Columbia University, with the degree 
of M. A For two years previous to 
this Miss Kennedy was department 
head of home economics at South
western College and also for two years 
Avas an instructor in Morningside Col
lege, Sioux City, Iowa.
Other new appointments in the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College are. 
Miss Mary B. Brishoft assistant in
structor in secretarial studies; Miss 
Gertrude Baton, assistant instructor 
in science; Miss M. Adelaide Krick, 
student assistant in social work; and 
Raymond W. Foery, instructor in ac
counts.
Westinghouse Mfg. Co. is 
Building This Equipment
NEW YORK CLAN TO HOLD 
FIRST MONTHLY MEETING
SEPT. TWENTY-SEVENTH
The highest voltage testing trans
former equipment that lias ever been 
sold is now being manufactured by 
the Westinghouse Electric .and Manu
facturing Company at its main works 
at East Pittsburgh, Pa.
This high voltage equipment is be
ing built for installation in the newhigh voltage testing laboratory nowbeing constructed on the grounds of 
California Institute of Technology at 
Pasadena, Cal.
A potential of 1,000,000 volts to 
ground will be produced by this 
equipment, its capacity being 1,000 
KVA or 1,340 HP. at tills extremely 
high voltage. The apparatus will 
consist of four special 250 KVA, 
250,000 volt testing transformers con
nected together so that their indi
vidual voltage will be added.
This arrangement requires that the 
transformer tanks be insulated from 
the ground, the insulation increasing 
as the transformer voltages increase. 
This will necessitaate mounting of 
the transformers on wooden plat
forms at various heights from the 
ground, the last transformer being on 
a platform approximately 12 to 15 
feet high.
California red wood will be used 
in building these insulating platforms 
which in themselves present quite a 
problem owing to the great bulk and 
ponderous weight of the transformers 
they must support Each of the four 
testing transformers weigh approxi
mately 23 tons when filled with oil, 
has a diameter of about 8 feet and 
an over all height of approximately 
20 feet.
In addition to the testing trans
formers, two 550 KVA regulating 
transformers and their induction reg
ulators will be furnished, these 
weighing approximately eight tons.
This equipment will be in charge 
of Dr. R. A. Millikin, the noted 
physicist, who is now a member of 
the faculty of the California Institute 
of Technology. He will be assisted 
by Dr. IC. E. Darwin, Dr. H. A. Lorentz, Prof. R. W. Sorensen, and 
other members of the faculty and al
so by several engineers of the South
ern California Edison Company.
The 1,000,000 volt testing equipment 
will greatly facilitate scientific re
search and, it is understood, investi
gations will be carried on concern
ing the properties of matter.
The Westinghouse Electric and 
Manufacturing Company has previous
ly built for its own use, a single 
unit, 1,000,000 volt testing transformer 
but due to the diversified purposes 
for which the equipment now being 
built will be used at California Insti
tute of Technology, It was decided 
that obtaining 1,000,000 volt by four 
units would prove to be a more ilex! 
ble arrangement.
It Is pilanned to also use only 
three of these transformers 
three phase, 435,000 volt transmission 
line and numerous other combinations 
can also be obtained.
Arrangements are being made to 
control the testing transformers in
dividually and also as a 1,000,000 
volt transformer from several differ
ent control stations located at differ
ent points in the new laboratory, so 
it can be readily seen that, tho con
trol system alone will require the use 
of considerable equipment connected 
by a maze of wires. A iconsiderable 
portion of this control equipment will 
be automatically operated and con
trolled by push buttons.
It is interesting to note that a po
tential of 1,000,000 volt between term
inals one meter in diameter, will 
cause a spark to flash across an air 
gap of approximately 45 inches and, 
when between needle points, it 
jump' an air gap of from L2 
feet.
In this apparatus, the 
Institute of Technology will 
higher voltage testing equipment 
that possessed by any other 
in the world, and, due to the 
that power is being transmitted 
higher voltage every day, this school 
evidently intends to keep abreast of 
the times; ia fact, when this equip
ment is installed, it will be several 
laps ahead.
The past experience of the West
inghouse Electric and Manufacturing 
Company in developing apparatus to 
produce high voltages has enabled it 
to undertake the development of this 
special equipment.
The first monthly meeting of the 
New- York Clan will be held on Sep
tember 27 at Youngs Restaurant, 
49th and Boardway, Churchills old 
stand. This meeting is being held at 
that time to make final arrangements 
of the trip to New Haven for the 
Yale game on the following Saturday. 
Everybody out
BOYS DORMITORIES WILL
HAVE MATRON THIS YEAr?
The year of 1922-23 marks several 
new changes in the Dormitory ar
rangements among the men. Tho 
main change is the introduction of 
,Mrs. N. B. Johnson, matron of the 
Do nns.
It has been thought that the bring
ing of a matron into the dorm, life 
will change the barracks like dorms 
into more home-like dwellings.
A newr form of government will re
place the old form. One man will 
be elected from each of the five large 
domitories at a general meeting. 
These five will consist of a dormi
tory council and will determine ques
tions arising among the doims. Each 
dormitory will elect its own officers, 
but the central power is invested in 
the council. It is expected the newform of government in the dorms to 
be successful.
FACULTY OF DIV. OF CO-OP.
RESEARCH ENJOYS OUTING
The faculty and graduate studonts 
of the Division of Co-operative Re
search enjoyed a got-together outing 
at Fricks Woods on tho aftornoon of 
'Saturday, Sep tomb or Kith. Sovoral 
members of tho faculties associated 
with tho Division in its graduato in
struction wero also present. Tho dig
nified professors forgot their dignity 
and demonstrated that they could 
handle themselves as well at a pic
nic as in the laboratory. And after 
the picnic supper, when tho amateur 
harmony bunch began to emit plain
tive noises from around the camp 
fire, it was well for the future of the 
Division that there were no listeners 
within half a. mile. At any rate, a 
fine time was hr.d by all.
Buttermilk Drinkers.
Buttermilk drinkers are called lactomaniacs. No suggestion of offness 
in their mental constitution is implied 
by tho name. They are always of 
sound mind and memory. Charles 
Lamb said nothing serious cotold be 
wrong with the man who was fond of 
applo dumplings. Tho same observa
tion covers tho drinker of buttermilk.
REGISTRATION IN DAY
SCHOOL PROVES HEAVY
(Continued From Page One.) 
smaller. This is a direct reflection 
from the economic condition of the 
country. 
About 150 advanced standing stu
dents entered this year and this 
number will counteract those of the 
Sophomore, Junior and Senior classes 
who dropped out since last year. 
There about 2,500 registered day stu
dents this year. Everything points 
forward to a large enrollment in 
Night School this year which opens 
October 2.
All those who did not register on 
.Monday or Tuesday will have to reg
ister at the Registrars Off ice and pay 
a fee of $1.00 per day, up to a max
imum of $10,00, not including Satur
day and Sunday.
FRESHMEN GET ROUSING
RECEPTION FROM SOPHS
(Continued From Page One) 
the new regulations will be rigidly en
forced.
The Plebe regulations for this year 
are practically the same as those of 
the last few years, except that they 
are arranged differently. The new ar
rangement Is more satisfactory than 
the old as there is no confusion and 
no chance for the Plebes to make any 
mistakes as to their' responsibilities.
Students desiring to get a reliable 
fountain pen, Eversharp Pencil, 
"Tech recognition or sea! pin, brief 
case, school ring, personal stationery, 
etc., should call at the Singer Pen & 
Gift Shop in the Jenkins Arcade.
FRATERNITY RUSHING RULES 
TO BE EFFECTIVE THIS YEAR
^Continued From Page One.) 
order to be a candidate for initiation 
into any fraternity. Lists, of pros
pective initiates shall be submitted 
to the Dean of Men to be passed on 
for scholastic eligibility."
Dates of the periods established by 
Article XII of the By-laws for 1922- 
23 are as follow's:
Rushing periodnoon of September 
ISth to midnight of October 7tli.
Bidding periodmidnight of Octo
ber 7th to midnight of October 14th.
Period of silencemidnight of Oc
tober 3 4tli to noon of October 15tli.
Acceptance of bidsfrom noon of 
October 15th on.
BARNHARTS RESTAURANT
Real Home Cooking 
116 OAKLAND AYE.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Olotlies Question. 
Anj' Style. All .Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341Flavor sts
