SENIOR BANQUET 
AT LINCOLN CLUB 
THURSDAY, JUNE 5
SENIOR PICNIC 
ON NEVILLE ISLAND 
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 4
VOL. XVIII NO. 35CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JUNE 3, 1924
, ....-    - . _ ... ...T. W. STEVENS 
TO HEAD NEW 
ART THEATRE
COMFORT AND FENCIL ENTER 
WRECKING BUSINESS; 
THOROUGHNESS GUARANTEED
Leaves Drama Department 
to Take Position at Chicago 
Art Institute; Payne and 
Wallace to Divide Work
HAS BUILT UP DEPT.
This Spring Cy Comfort anil Bill 
Fencil are going to use the knowl
edge that they have acquired at Car
negie Tech and apply it to the trans
fer business. If you want your trunk 
taken to the station, just drop into 
the Y office and your responsi
bility will be over. Also, each even
ing a visit will be made to mens 
and womens dormitories and to the 
fraternity houses. All that is neces
sary to have your trunk taken to the 
station is the small sum of $1. Just 
remember that, when it comes time 
to leave for home, Comfort & Fencil 
are in the transfer business.
Joe Raddin, Leonard Esche, 
Margaret Kaufman, How
ard Strong and Miss Cooke 
Also Win Places on Staff
Mr. T. W. Stevens is leaving the 
Drama Department to become head 
of the newly-established Drama De
partment of the Art Institute, Chi
cago, and director of the Kenneth 
Sawyer Goodman Memorial' Theatre, 
which is now under construction as 
an addition to the Art Institute. His 
work there will be similar to the 
work of the Drama Department here, 
and it is expected that a number of 
the old graduates of Tech will be on 
his staff in Chicago.
The Goodman Theatre is to be 
somewhat larger than our Arts 
Theatre, and is to have a permanent 
company,' giving repertory perform
ances for the general public, as well 
as a student body, giving studio per
formances. It is given to the Art 
Institute in memory of Kenneth Saw
yer Goodman, who was a close 
friend and collaborator of Mr. Stev
ens, and it is a personal sentiment 
in the matter, as well as the en
larged field of opportunity, that 
takes Mr. Stevens away from Car
negie.
The most important other change 
in personnel, so far as is now known, 
is that Mr. Iden Payne will become 
a regular, instead of a visiting, pro
fessor. Mr. Payne has made pro
ductions in the Arts Theatre for the 
past nine years, from time to time, 
notably this year the production of 
his own comedy, "The Bird In 
Hand, and the splendid production 
of Richard III. Mr. Wallace will 
be the general manager of the de
partment, Mr. Payne coming chiefly 
for production work.
Mr. Stevens has been with the 
Drama Department since its crea
tion, and he is the originator of the 
plan on which the theatre operates.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Supper, Theatre Party 
Scheduled for Seniors
In M. M. C. C. Cafeteria and 
Arts Theater
The Senior Supper in the Mar
garet Morrison cafeteria, to be fol
lowed by a theatre party at the Lit
tle Theatre, College of Fin Arts, 
Monday, June 9, will draw Senior 
Week to a close before the com
mencement exercises.
The Seniors will hold their last 
social vent as students of Carnegie 
Tech at their supper and theatre 
party. The Class Supper will be. 
held in the M. M. cafatera at 5:30 
p. m. A program of amusing stunts 
is being prepared to follow the sup
per, the class prophecy promising to 
be one of the best of these. Those 
Seniors who are either modest or 
sensitive are advised to leave early.
The committe in charge of the sup
per consists of Blair Jessop (chair
man), Jane Markle and Faye Glass. 
Tickets for the supper are one dol
lar each.
After the supper everyone will go 
to the Little Theatre,, where the 
play From Now On, by Harry 
Hamilton of the class of 24, will be 
produced by the Drama Department, 
especially for the Seniors.
The play, a comedy drama, re
volves about a woman whose hus
band is at sea, and a crook photog
rapher who entices - her away with 
him. The cast is as follows:
Ruby ............................... Dot Schell
Pearl .................................. Ida Krouse
Jasper ............................. Jack Danials
(Continued on Page Three)
SENIOR MEN vs. WOMEN 
IN NATIONAL PASTIME
Long, hard practice marks the 
senior girls preparation for their 
baseball game with the senior men, 
which is to be held in the Carnegie 
Bowl, Monday, June 9, at 10 a. m.
Everyone still remembers the base
ball game played off between the 
senior men and senior women of the 
class of 1923. It was a spectacular 
event; this years senior match 
promises to be even more so. The 
stage is set. In the hands of an 
able coach, the girls team is rapidly 
rounding into shape. The girls are 
in training; reluctantly they have 
given up cigarettes, candy, late 
hours, etc.
Ever since Casey struck out in that, 
famous ninth inning, baseball has 
kept that uncertain atmosphere; but 
the girls have decided that they can 
beat the men and are making good 
headway. They boast of some very 
fine material. There are at least 
three candidates out for each posi
tion. They have among their ranks 
several home-run hitters who are out 
to break records.
The girls are taking the game very 
(Continued on Page Two.)
BALL NEXT TUESDAY 
ENDS SENIOR WEEK
Seniors and Underclassmen 
Will Enjoy Dance in 
Arts Foyer
The Commencement Ball in the 
Foyer of Arts Building will mark the 
last social function at which the un
dergraduates will have the oppor
tunity to meet and mingle with the 
Seniors as a group. Hines Or
chestra will furnish the music and 
dancing will continue from 9 until 1 
o'clock.
The original plan to hold the Ball 
in the new gym has been abandoned, 
and the Foyer in the building of the 
College of Fine Arts has been chosen 
instead. It is believed that this 
change will be welcomed, since the 
floor in the new gym is somewhat 
uneven and has been recently var
nished.
The Commencement Ball is the 
last event of Senior Week, and a 
good attendance is expected. After 
the commencement exercises, next 
Tuesday, the Ball becomes a fitting 
close to the ytars spent here by the 
members of the graduating class. 
The dance is an informal one, and 
is for all students here at Carnegie, 
graduate and undergraduate. It is 
believed that a great many of the 
underclassmen will take advantage 
of this occasion to say their fare
well to the Class of 24.
The Hines' Brothers Orchestra, 
which has been engaged to furnish 
the music for dancing, is knowm for 
its work at the Willows and at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel.' A great deal of 
favorable comment has been heard 
recently about these nine men .and 
their organization. Though they 
have not before appeared on Car
negies campus their performance 
next Tuesday night is'being looked 
forward to with interest by those 
who have already heard their work. 
Dancing will begin at 9 oclock and 
will continue until 1.
The committee in charge of the ar
rangements for the Ball has worked 
hard, and the members deserve com(Continued on Page Three)
Head of Heat Treating 
Dept, to Enter Ministry
John S. Taylor to Leave Car
negie After 18 Years
From a college instructorship to 
the ministry is the change in career 
chosen by John S Taylor, - Head In
structor of Forge Production and 
Heat Treatment of Steel. He will 
take - charge of the pulpit at Trinity 
Episcopal Church in Rochester, Pa., 
on July 1.
Mr. Taylor is one of the "old 
guard at Carnegie, having been con
nected with the teaching staff for 
eighteen years. He began his work 
here in 1906 as an instructor in 
forge work and, for the past twelve 
years, has been in charge of this de
partment.
Although  Mr. Tajdors decision to 
enter the ministry was a distinct 
surprise to most of -the faculty and 
students, it was not unexpected by 
his intimate friends, because of his 
active interest in the work of St. 
Stephens Episcopal Church in Wilkinsburg. For the past twenty years 
he has been a member of the Lay
mens Missionary of Pittsburgh, dur
ing which period he has traveled
19,000 miles as a lay-reader.
He was born on August 28, 1887, 
in Harbor Grace, Dominion of New 
Foundland. After his graduation 
from high school he  entered the 
Colonial and Continental Church So
cieties College at Harbor Grace, 
(Continued on Page Three.)
JUNIOR WINS HEWLETT
MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIP
The Pittsburgh Art Society an
nounces that it has awarded the 
Russell Hewlett Memorial Founda
tion Scholarship for this year to 
Dinty Iicgan, a junior in the De
partment of Painting, College of Fine 
Arts. This is the first time in the 
history of the scholarship that it has 
been awarded to a junior, all the 
previous awards having been made 
to seniors.
The scholarship consists of three 
months study at the  Fontainbleau 
School of Fine Arts for American 
Students, near Paris. Hogan will 
sail June IS to take up his studies.
He is a member of the Sigma 
Epsilon Phi fraternity, and was re
cently elected to Tau Sigma Delta.
E. G. WHEELER 
CHOSEN EDITOR 
OF 1925 THISTLE
DECORATIONS TO FEATURE
SENIOR TENNIS MATCH
PLANS UNDER WAY
Earl G. Wheeler has been elected 
by the present sophomore class of 
the Arts College to head the 1925 
Thistle staff, and Joe Raddin will be 
business manager. Other elections 
are: Leonard Esche, treasurer;
Margaret Kaufman, associate editor; 
Howard Strong, sales manager; Miss 
Cooke, secretary.
Wheeler is a sophomore in the 
Architectural Department and is a 
member of Beta Tlieta Pi. He held 
the office of photographic editor dur
ing this past year, and by his hard 
work earned the position lie was re
cently chosen for by his classmates. 
Earl has been very active on the 
campus during his two years here, 
besides maintaining a scholastic 
standing higher than that of the 
average student. He was president 
of his class during the first semes
ter of his freshman year, member of 
the Soph Hop Committee and secre
tary of the Arts Ball Committee. 
Wheeler is pledged to Delta Skull 
and Di Delta Epsilon at the present 
time and is a member of Scarab.
Joe Raddin, the new business 
manager, is a sophomore in the 
Commercial Engineering Department 
and also has a list of activities after 
his name. Joe is a Woodlawn Club 
man, and is pledged at the present 
time to Delta Skull and Pi Delta 
Epsilon. During his first year he 
served as treasurer of his class. As 
a sophomore Joe was a member of 
the Sophomore Banquet Committee, 
(Continued on Page Two.)
SENIORS FROLIC AT 
PICNIC TOMORROW
Iron City Collegians Will 
Furnish Dance Music
The Seniors Picnic which is being 
heralded with great enthusiasm will 
be history after tomorrow. The ex
tensive preparations which aro being 
made to make this the best picnic ever 
only goes to show with what pep the 
Class of 1024 is endowed. Chairman 
Sanford has worked hard and earn
estly to put a picnic across that will 
always bo a vivid reminder of the 
good old college days.
The crowd will leave tho campus 
about 1:30 p. m. in special street cars 
which will take them directly to the 
grounds. Everyone however must 
wear a Picnic Tag. This entitles the 
wearer to transportation, eats and 
dancing. The price of the tag is one 
dollar and it will be the biggest dol
lars worth that has ever before been 
offered. Get your ticket today so that 
youll be sure to have one.
In the afternoon there will prob
ably be games and contests and if the 
plans of the committee work out 
there will be a few surprises. Also 
there is a fine bathing pool which 
may be used, if the weather permits.
About supper time the eats will be 
handed out. Eats are to be given 
only to those wearing a tag, so be 
sure not to lose your tag or you may 
go hungry.
In the evening there will be danc
ing. The Iron City Collegians, of 
campus^ fame, have been secured to 
furnish the music and the dance floor 
is one of the finest, so you cant help 
but enjoy yourself dancing. Then 
there will be plenty of benches 
around where the more maturp cou
ples may "^sit and bask in the moon
light.
Sharp at 12 midnight all the fun 
will cease and the cars will leave the 
grounds to bring home a crowd of 
Seniors which from all indications 
(Continued on Page Four.)
UNDERGRADS INVITED TO 
BANQUET BY CONN. CLAN
The attention of all undergradu
ates from Connecticut and vicinity is 
called to the annual dinner and meet
ing of the Conn. Clan, which is to 
be held Saturday, June 21, 7:30 p. 
m., at The Hub in1 Hartford.
The time and place of this meet
ing has been expressly chosen in 
order that as many of the under
graduates as possible from Conneticut, who will be returning home 
for their vacations, will avail them
selves of this opportunity to come 
and give the "old-timers the latest 
dope on whats what around Tech.
Each successive meeting of this 
Clan has been bigger and better 
than the one preceding, and it is in
dicated that this last meeting of the 
year is going to be a bang-up af
fair and a fitting close to a success
ful year.
A good feed, some snappy talks, 
a new Tech movie and some surprise stuff will occupy the evening 
after the election of the next years 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Decorations lor the tennis courts 
to be used by the Seniors on Satur
day, June 7, have been decided up
on.
It is an idea inaugurated by the 
senior girls. The Arts School girls 
wish to make the courts into beauti
ful Japanese gardens, but the Mar
garet Morrison girls much prefer the 
latest Peresian decorations. The 
men, believing in simplicity, rapidly 
brought' about a compromise. Wait 
until you see this compromise.
SENIOR BANQUET AT 
LINCOLN CLUB THUR.
Innovations Scheduled for 
Final Class Feast of 
1924 Grads
Next Thursday will see another 
Senior Banquet pass into history. 
Elaborate preparation, with due at
tention to details, has been made, 
and everything points to a most suc
cessful feast on Junfe 5. The place 
selected, the Lincoln Club, is very 
well adapted to the occasion, and as 
provision has been made for a full 
quota of men seniors from each col
lege, it is pretty certain to be highly 
populous about 6 p. m.
Coming in the middle of Senior 
Week, aas it does, the banquet should 
not only afford a breathing space for 
the harassed seniors, but should also 
serve to promote the spirit and 
"good-fellowship, so widely adver
tised. It will be- the last of the 
series of annual banquets. Never 
again will the 1924 class be all to
gether for such an affair, and hence 
it is expected that this last one will 
try to atone for past and futuro 
shortcomings.
Nothing definite can be learned in 
regard to the entertainment for the 
evening. The committee guards tho 
secret jealously, so the matter 
seems to resolve itself into a case 
of "come and find out. Tho pro
gram may safely be catalogued as in
teresting at least, with novelties and 
innovations playing a prominent 
part. No senior who fails to attend 
but will regret it.
Let it be emphasized once again 
that a preliminnary ticket must be 
obtained before attending tho banquiet. The cost'of the banquet Itself 
is $2.50 per person. So far, there 
has been , a good salo of tickets, but 
plenty are left for late-comors. Until 
Thursday, then!
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
Here wo are at the end of a year, 
a year that has accomplished much, 
a year that is oternally marked out. 
from its fellows by tho erection- of 
the new gymnasium, tho publication 
of the Carnegio Song Book, the 
decease of Hoot Mon, tho innovation 
of our famous County Fair (which, 
so far, no neighbor has had tho op
portunity to copy), and tho distinct, 
unlovely beginnings of that muchdiscussed tunnel!
It lias been .a glorious year. We 
can all speak of it confidently in the 
past tense, for of course, none of us 
are going to be foolish enough to 
Hunk any examinations. The seniors 
who are graduating this year must 
get an awful thrill out of their class; 
must feel proud and humble all at 
the same time to belong to such a 
class, to be part of the achievement 
of such a year
And how has this improvement 
been accomplished? How have these 
innovations been perpetrated? Not 
by 'any haphazard method, more er
ror than trial, that some of us em
ploy when we settle down to get 
som,e work done! All the good has 
been accomplished through organized 
effort, constructive, efficient labor; 
it has been toil with a definite ob
ject in view, to bring beauty and 
achievement to Carnegie.
And so, when we do our studying 
wor the finale, we should know just 
with system, we should know just1 
what we are going to do and then do 
it, and we should not waste any time 
worrying over what our marks will 
be. The grades will take care of 
themselves, if you know what is con
tained in your precious note books! 
Also, if you set to work to make 
sure you do know everything, (and, 
of course, you will), then the knowl
edge will be transferred from your 
note books to your head, and you 
will cease to think about study al
together.. Everything may seem 
blurred in your brain right now, but 
when you do go in to1 take your 
tests, you will bo surprised to find 
out how much you know;
Set to work with the view to 
bringing glory to your school and to 
yourself by knocking all your 
troublesome worries for a row, and 
making the best grades you ever 
made in your life. Thats the spirit 
to take exams inthe spirit that 
you will make good and you know it, 
and nothing can. take that knowledge 
from you. f
Directed effort brings results, but 
it is the frame of mind you direct It 
in that soothes your troubled soul 
and leaves you confident and tran
quil. Be positive that you will come 
out all right, and you will.
And thats that!
(Continued on Page Two.)
J. U. GIBBONS 
APPOINTED AS 
COMMONS HEAD
Hopes to Bring Into Being 
Student Community Center 
Through Establishment of 
Campus Grill Room
COMMONS RENOVATED
Mr. John U. Gibbons has been ap
pointed manager of the Commons and 
Dormitories for next year. Ho be
gins work on September 1, and by 
the time the students arrive for the 
arduous labors of the school year, will 
be firmly entrenched in his duties. 
Mr. Gibbons is at present manager 
of the Buena Vista Spring Hotel in 
Franklin County, Pennsylvania. He 
has served as manager of the Inn at 
Tome School; the dining halls of 
Princeton university; the dining cars 
of the Western Maryland Railway; 
supervisor of the commissary of the 
Merchants and Minors Stoamshii 
Company; and proprietor of tho Blue 
Mountain House, Maryland.
With this gonerous galaxy of past 
experience upon which to work out a 
dining hall system at Carnegie, Mr. 
Gibbons ought to prove highly suc
cessful. Ho is a personal friend of 
President Baker, haying sorvod at 
Tome School during Dr. Bakers term 
as its head. He is also well known 
by Colonel Fairley, Carnogies gonial 
superintendent of grounds and build
ings. According to Cojonel Fairley, 
Mr. Gibbons is business-like in the 
conductance of his dining halls, and 
at the same time, through long asso
ciation with young men, and a pleas
ing personality, able to put a personal 
touch in his sorvlco.
Tho fact that Mr. Gibbons is a firm 
believer in good equlpmout to work 
with spoaks in Itself good for tho 
(Continued on Page Two.)
WOMENS EVENTS 
FOR SENIOR WEEK
Include Luncheon, Theater, 
Party, Swim and Tea for 
Class of '24
The Son lor Girls Lunchoon is to 
bo hold in McCreorys Dining Room 
at 1 oclock, Thursday. Tho Wom
ens Luncheon has always boon one 
of tho most popular events of Sonlor 
Week, and this year, as boforo, 
practically tho wholo class has 
signed up for reservations. Miss 
Mary B. Brood and Doan Mary 
Loulso Brown will also bo present. 
Tho committee in ehargo of tho 
Lunchoon Includes Josophino Gibson 
(chairman), Grace Sheriff, Graco 
Adams, Martha Zimmerman and Mar
garet Carnes.
Thursday afternoon at 4 oclock, 
tho girls will meet in front of Mar
garet Morrison for a brief parade to 
tho New Gym, whore they will havo 
plenty of opportunity to exhibit 
whatever aquatic ability they may 
possess,-and to got Into practice for 
the combined swim at 2 p. m., Fri
day.
Thursday at 8 p. m., arrange
ments have been made for the 
Senior Girls Theater Party! It Is to 
be held at the Davis. A large at
tendance has been provided for, and 
the bill promises to be one of the 
best on the circuit. Miss Grace 
Moore is in charge of the arrange
ments.
The Alumnae Tea for the Senior 
girls of Margaret Morrison and Fine 
Arts will be held in the Recreation 
Hall at 3 p. m Saturday. The of
ficers of the executive committee of 
M. M. Alumnae are to be hostesses. 
They are: Mrs. Gail S. Fettke
(president of the association), Miss 
Sue Smith, Miss Millicent Leech, 
Miss Bernice Kruger, Miss Lillian 
Coleman, Mrs. Mary C. Brinton, Miss 
Edna C, Smith, Miss'Mary Wight, 
Miss Josephine Whitney and Miss 
Dorothy Grant.
ENROLLMENT IN R.O.T.C. 
SHOWS GREAT INCREASE
That interest in pursuing the fouryear course in R. O. T. C. to com
pletion is increasing, as evidenced 
by the growth of the advanced 
classes, as compared with the basic 
classes. The number of students in 
tho advanced course Is more than 40 
per cent of the number in the basic 
course. This percentage Is very 
much higher than in the average 
college.
Upon the successful completion of 
the four years of military training 
tho student Is tendered a comm1}'- 
sion as second lieutenant In tho 
Olllcers' Reserve Corps. This com
mission opens to him many op
portunities, not only for patriotic 
citizenship and progress in military 
art, but also for profitable and 
pleasurable association with tech
nical men of all branches.
Pay for this attendance will 
amount to about $1,480.50 in 1924, 
and the students will receive all 
(Continued on Page Two.)
INSTALLATION OF NEW
OFFICERS HELD AT LAST 
MEETING OF CITMAS CLUB
Tho mombors of tho Carnegio Citmas Club at thoir mooting hold last 
Wednesday at. tlio Riiskin apart
ments elected and installed officers 
for tho coming year. Dinner was 
sorvod to the members, and Dr. C. 
Wallace Petty of the First Baptist 
Church delivered a very fine address.
The following members will func
tion as officers of tho club for tho 
next school year: President. Francis 
M. McGee; vice president, John W. 
Cramp; secretary, Ted Moessner; 
treasurer, Allen; Tyler, Jack Cappe.
DISTINGUISHED 
GUESTST0MARK 
GRADUATION
SCOTCH THISTLES 
PLANTED ON LAWN
Carnegie Emblem Appears 
in Actuality for First 
Time in History
The first shininent of real Scotch 
thistles ever tff reach Carnegie has 
arrived, and tho bonny flowers havo 
been planted, temporarily, at tho 
corner of Central Building, where 
they will remain until their des
tined bed is ready for them.
Edward I-Ioyo of Now Castlo is 
tho provident alumnus who has sup
plied alma mater with her first 
school flower. Paul, tho gar drier, is 
in charge of tho plants, and ho will 
havo them in good qon^ition when 
the time comos for transplanting 
thorn.
Tho prosont plan is to have tho 
thistles planted in tho form of a "C 
on tho lawn along Woodlawn avonuo, 
between Industries and Science. 
When tho tunnel has boon cdmplotod and tho board-walk removed, 
two parallel concroto walks aro to 
bo laid, ono along sldo industries, 
converging at tho end to Machinery 
Hall stops. Ono other walk will 
cross tho lawn, to connoct tho sldo 
doors of tho two schools. In tho 
spaco between this walk and Wood
lawn avonuo, a groat C of thistles 
will ho laid out.
Tho thistle has boon the omblom 
of Carnegio slnco Its Inception, ap
pearing In tho design of recognition 
pins, ancient and modern, and giv
ing Its name to the year book. 
(Jerry Slyo is said to have got the 
design of the thistles' on the new 
Carnegio pins from tho collection of 
which those now on tho canipus onoo 
formed a part. Certain mombors of 
tho faculty have boon trying for 
years to bring somo of tho flowers 
horo, but attempts wore unavailing 
until Mr. Hoyo offorod to sond some 
from a garden on his farm.
Scotch thistles dlffor from tho 
common American variety, In that 
they, aro more beautiful, and lack 
the powerful disseminating proper
ties which so distress the farmer. 
1J tho llfo has not boon drowned out 
(Continued on Page Throe)
Prof. Wurts Retires 
From Active Service
Former Head of Dept, of 
Elee. Eng. to Leave
Alexander Jay Wurts, Research 
Profossor of Electrical Engineering, 
is retiring from active duty at Car
negie at tlio ond of this year| Profes
sor Wurts was the flrst man to be 
appointed to tho staff of tho Car
negio Technical Schools, and has 
been in service for eighteen years.
Professor Wurts came here to be 
head of the'Department of Electrical 
Engineering, and held that position 
until 1920, at which time he took up 
his present work as Research Pro
fessor. At that time Professor 
Work, the present head of the de
partment, succeeded Professor Wurts. 
A large part of the development of 
the College of Engineering is to be 
accredited to Professor Wurbs, es
pecially the work In Electrical Engi
neering.
Professor Wurts has contributed 
greatly to the advance of the Elec
trical Engineering world, and has 
spent his entire life in its study. He 
was graduated from Yale in 1883, 
after which he took a post-graduate 
course at Stevens Institute of Tech
nology, and received Ills M. E. de
gree. Following this work he stud
ied under Professor Kohlrausch of 
the Polytechnium at Hanover, Ger
many. Not being satisfied yet with 
the amount of education he had re
ceived, Profossor Wurts entered tho 
apprenticeship course of the United 
States Electric Lighting Company of 
Newark, N. J., in 188(1. A short 
while later ho became manager of 
the Julian Storage Battery Company 
of Camden, N. J.
In, 1887, Wurts went to Westinghouse for work In sclent,lllc roooarch, 
and was there for toil years, While 
at WeiitlnghouHo Profossor Wurts In
vented the Wurts Lighting Arrester 
and other appliances of a protective 
nature. Ho was also awarded the 
John Scott Modal by tho city of 
Philadelphia upon recommendation 
of tho Franklin Institute for the dis
covery of non-arcing metals.
In 1898 he developed the Nernst 
Lamp for Mr. Westinghouse. The 
Nernst lamp was a great improve
ment over the old carbon lamp, but 
has since been replaced by the 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Dr. Covert of Chicago Will 
Deliver Baccalaureate Ser
mon and Gen. Bliss is Com
mencement Speaker '
SPEAK AT MUSIC HALL
Tho last events of the Senior 
Class, the baccalaureate sermon, tho 
commencement exercises, and the re
ception for graduates, will be marked 
by distinguished visitors. It is gen
erally felt that the presence of theso 
well-known men will give a distinc
tion not always felt by every gradu
ating class.
The baccalaureate sermon will bo 
delivered Sunday, June S, at Car
negie Music Hall, S p. m. Dr. Coven 
of Chicago has been secured for 
this annual and Senior function, tho 
baccalaureate services. Dr. Covert, 
who is the general secretary of tho 
Board of Christian Education of tho 
Presbyterian Church of the United 
States of America,* comes here highly 
recommended by Rev. Hugh Thomp
son Kerr, pastor of tho Shadysid0f 
Presbyterian Church.
Dr. Covert is a native of Indiana, 
attended Iianovor College, is a mem
ber of tho class of 188(5, and a mem
ber of tlio Phi Delta Thota Frntornity. Ho afterwards graduated 
from tho McCormick Thoological 
Seminary in 1888.
Soon after his graduation, ho ontorod tho Prosbytorlan ministry, 
having charges at both St. Paul and 
Chicago. Ho was at ono time presi
dent of tho Starrott School for Girls, 
Chicago. Dr. Covort has a well* 
known reputation as an author, too, 
through his publication of Tho 
Plumb Lino, Tho Glory of tho 
Pino, Wlidwoods and Waterways, 
and "Now burroughs In Old Fields.
The commencement exorcises will 
bo hold In Carnegio Music Hall, 
Monday, Juno !). at. 10:80 a. m. 
Genorad Tasker Howard Bliss, who 
is tho commencement speaker, has 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Dave Garber Elected 
New Managerlof Band
Shannon Owens to Take Over 
Business End
At thoir rocent annual banquet in 
tho Lincoln Club, tho baud elected 
tho 0(floors for the coming year, and 
outlined the policies that will bo 
pursued during the next season.
Dave Garber, well-known for bin 
activities In Arts School and on Tho 
Thistle, was chosen manager, a po
sition for which ho Is eminently 
fitted. As business manager, Shan
non Owens of Shadysldo, Ohio,, 
promises to do much toward secur
ing a season, oven more prosperous 
than the past, for tho Carnegio 
Tootors.
W. F. Sterling of the Appllod Art, 
Department, though a now man on 
tho campus, has shown such ex
ceptional ability and initiative, that 
tho choice of him as secretary and 
troasuror was almost unanimous. 
Edward CeruttJ, Science 20, was 
elected librarian, since ho can bo 
sefely trusted to appear with tho 
music on time, and has shown such 
a heartfelt Interest in his work.
The banquet wus unusually well 
attended, the main attraction, prob
ably, being the fluent toastmaster, 
Scott Rudy, who introduced tho 
speakers with. such skill and ease 
that they were, called upon to speak 
twice. Not to belittle tho latter, 
however, such capable liaranguers as 
Dr. Baker, H. K. Kirkpatrick, A. C. 
Irwin, Milo Matter and E. F. Sul
livan, usually sufficiently outshine 
the toastmaster to dwart him into 
insignificance.
SENIORS TO PARADE TO 
SWIMMING POOL THUR.
The Senior Swims to be held Thurs
day and Friday of Ibis week are go
ing to be big drawing cards of tho 
Senior Week celebration. The Mens 
Swhn is scheduled for Thursday at 2 
p. in. and tho Womens Swim at, 4 p. 
m. on the same day. On Friday at 2 
p. m, there will bo a combined Men 
and Womens fiwlm,
It Is planned to havo the men pa
rade In their bath robes from tho 
Central Building to the Gym. There 
probably will ho somo extreme type 
of Apollo strutting the canipus, typic
al of Mack 8'onnott Comodlos.
The women will march from Mar
garet Morrison to tho Gym for their 
dip, but It, is hardly posslblo, that 
they will parade in bath robes.
Friday hero will bo oovoral fea
ture ovonts to entertain tho crowd at 
tho combined swim. Racing, fancy 
diving and the like is on tlio program. 
If posslblo several water games witt 
be started and in all there should bo 
plenty of entertainment for all.
The committee expects all tho 
Seniors to turn out for this affair, as 
it is a new feature of the celebration 
and is certainly a novel one.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 3. 192.*
X& CninBflliSaEtaD
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council. ____________
Entered In the Posto/lice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.____________
. .EDITOR-IN-CHIEF ^
FRED C. SMITH....................................................................................lllland 8C..8-M
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. D. ROSSI Ni T. J. DEMPBEY__________ E. C. FRA/I Kit
EDITORIAL STAFF
Sara Mao Everett, A. E. Krogh, I). A. Gardner, L. H. Harris, Harriot Merwln, 
A. I'1. Carson.
MANAGING EDITOR
FRED T. PIUOLPS................................................................................Schenley 91(M
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING........................................................................................Schenley 0070
V. B. SMITH............................................................................*.........Franklin 0287-J
REPORTERS
Estelle Garibaldi, Wilma Stlner, Carol Foiglit, Almeo Phurq, E. G. 
Johnson, K. Fulmer, F. M. McClelland, C. A. LundqulMt, It. L. hopper, M. 
Holllnshead, W. Fendi, W. Senium, I). K. Mims.
ROSI3MARY MeCAMURIDGIS .................................................. ALUMNI EDITOR
Assistants...................Margaret MePall, J. M. Goss, M. W. Gay, Nora Willetts.
J. CHRISTOFF................... .................................................. ATHLETIC EDITOR
Assistants.................G. E, Jacoby, J. F. Harris, E. C. Plummer, J. A. C. Follor
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON....................................................................................Schenley 0211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER...........................................................................................Schenley 0122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ ...........................................................................................Hazel 1122
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, II. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, Lee C. Osborn, J. M. 
Airgood, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. Strinale, Lois Snyder 
The Edltor-In-Clilot is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld If doBired. All news items must be in the student 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20. ________________________________________________________
WHAT ARE YOU HERE FOR?
There seems to be a tendency on the part oi! many oi: the students 
at Carnegie to have a misapprehension us to their purpose in coming 
here to school. They believe that their college course is intended to 
give them such an education that they can immediately start out 
in. the world at two hundred per month, and build up a respectable 
fortune by the time they are forty.
In other words, they believe that their college will act as a lever 
which will enable them to pry loose a highly lucrative position. They 
are working now, not for the sake ol' working, but as a means to an 
end; that end being an ultimate directorship in the worlds affairs.
It is not the purpose oi' this editorial to destroy anyones youth
ful ideals, but from the experience of our alumni, and those who are 
in a position to know, these students are in for a sad disappointment. 
They will start at the bottom ol! the well known ladder, with all the 
rest oi1 the beginners; they will rise only by hard work; and the 
largest percentage will still be far from the top when the time comes 
for them to quit work. Because Carnegie has the reputation of turn
ing out good men, it is not necessarily true that a degree from the 
school will be an Alladins lamp lo all who possess it.
So far as future progress is concerned, that degree does not 
mean a thing, and now is the time to realize it. It will probably 
help one to secure a position, after which its responsibility ceases, 
and the student is on his own, to fail or make good, as he is willing or 
not to work.
The whole purpose ol! courses at Carnegie Tech is to benefit the 
students, not by preparing them lor a trade, there are trade schools I 
for that; but by broadening their minds, exercising their intellects, 
and thus enabling the studenls to appreciate lliings by pointing out j 
to them just what littlo is known in this world. It aims to teach a | 
man how to satisfy himself; to teach him to like work, if that is I 
possible.
If a student graduates, realizing the immense field for service to 
himself and lo others in this world; if he luiows what he likes and 
dislikes; if ho can enjoy himself in his sparo time; if ho has made 
friends; if he realizes just how ignorant he is; then he has received 
an education, he has capitali/,od his time in school. But if In; goes 
out, knowing nothing except the fad; that he is an engineer, or a 
printer, and expects to be a capitalist and retire at fifty, heaven help 
him,
A. student should not underrate himself upon graduation; lie 
should thank his stars that ho received his education at Carnegie"; 
and ho should go out and use his education to help him in his work, 
iltorget about money, that will take care of itself. (Service is the 
keynote of real success.
With this parting spasm, I he Carnegie Tartan wishes the grad 
iiating Seniors all the luck in the world; and hopes to soe*them again 
Campus Week.
THE LIONESS
Once again the Arts Theater gives 
us the premiere of a play that is pop
ular In every favorable sense of the 
word. Originality of themo, the melo
dramatic emotional scenes of which 
the public has always had ii perfectly 
sound appreciation, genuinely clever 
dialog. Mr. Carroll Fltzhugh has, In 
short, built a play according to the 
sound old receipt of one Will Shakespoare, popular dramatist, Instead of 
following the prevailing cult of real
ism and nourosls. We ulI like thrills 
aiid laughs and humane humor In the 
theater, and In the Lioness we get 
all of that. We also get, (admirers 
of ONeil note the possibility), queer 
people and emotionally unbalanced 
people treatod with large-hearted un
derstanding and proportion. It takes 
a man as sane as Mr. Fltzhugh to 
write about Ferdinand Dak, a man 
unbalanced with power, and Mrs. 
Brent, a woman turned lioness by the 
maternal protective instinct. Around 
these two the author has carefully 
built atmosphere, first, the African 
Jungle horror of the prolog, and then, 
shurply contrasted, the normal, wellbred society of the Brent home. The 
comedy Is genuine comedy, full of hu
man nature. The audience, all of 
whom have known what it was to be 
bored and have wanted to be rude to 
bores, entered Into the remarks of 
Tam and Mr. Brent with unholy glee. 
And when the futile, gentle grand
mother turns on Tam In lines so full 
or natural humor as to be quite actor 
proof, the audience became openly 
hysterical with mirth. The ilium or and 
the melodrama balanced and intensi
fied each other.
Naturally, the actors were at their 
best In such a play. Miss Brown in 
the title role showed a maturity and 
emotional finish which almost justi
fies perpetual easting for the elder 
parts in so many plays to which she 
has been subjected. She certainly 
plays old women with increasing pow
er. Harry Mervls did ills usual vigor
ous and yet careful acting in the part 
of Dak. And Janet Mlllls found in 
Lilly, a role which for almost the first 
time this year gave her a chance to 
show her real artistry. Miss Mlllis 
has a distinct gift for projecting over 
the footlights the wistful charm arid 
freshness of exquisite youth. As the 
Prince of Wiiles and as Little Yniol 
she had, however, merely childrens 
parts. I-Iere, as the terrified young 
wife, she Interpreted her lines with a 
poignancy and naturalness which not 
only projoct.od her Awn role but log
ically motivated the other two lead
ing parts.
The humorous lines too brought out 
the actor host work. They were ad
mirably cast. Vomer Ilaldens Iras
cible old Mr. Brent showed his usual 
light touch In high comedy. James 
Resleys charm and boyish cynicism 
worthily created the cleverly written 
part. Lloyd Yoder was Jim Ellis, as 
though the part had boon written for 
him. And Harriet Wallcor gave a 
Clara Harding so utterly characteris
tic. that everyone In the audience was 
sure they had known someone just 
like Hint I 
In short, It would ho hard to fell 
whether actors or audience enjoyed 
the play more, Certainly the actors 
would Ilice to extend a apodal vote 
of thanks to Mr. and Mrs. Fltzhugh 
for their continued Interest and helpftilnnmi throughout rehearsals and 
performances. It Is n joy to work for 
an author who himself works with 
Ills actors.
ALLEN 12 GRIOGORY.
EARL G. WHEELER CHOSEN
EDITOR 1925 THISTLE
ENROLLMENT IN R. O. T. C.
SHOWS MARKED INCREASE
(Continued From Pago One.) 
their necessary expenses In addlEngineer Unit ..........^.........
Signal Corps Unit...............
Motor Transport Unit........
lion.
The present year 1ms boon a sue- ! 
cessful one. The comparative en
rollments for tills and last year are ! 
as follows:
Totals.
The amount paid students during 
the past year, exclusive of pay Lor 
summer camp attendance, was $7,- 
546.80. That of last year was $G,-
1923-19241922-1923
OctobciMayOctobcrMay
tr.o145140135
1079387Gfl
71r>77152
328205301256
920.GO.The payrollfor nextyear is
estimated at $0,300.
The number of men attending sum
mer camp is as follows:
Engineer....................... i.
Signal Corps....................
Motor Transport Corps.
Probable1924
2S
10
Attended1923 
10 
7 
9
35
CAMPUS COMMENT
(Continued From Page One.)
As for this coming summer, I dont 
know. To some of us, it will be sad, 
indeed, especially to the seniors, for 
it will be their last play time. After j 
they find positions, there will he no 
more three months vacation period. 
Life is harder than college, although 
eolloge Is a miniature life! To the 
juniors, the summer will bo some
what sad, because It will be their 
last fling at childhood. When they 
come back as seniors, they will be 
clothed In dignity and the Irksome 
robes of sonlordom. They will rule 
the campus, but they will regret 
their vanished care-free state. The 
sophomores and plobos, though, will 
be joyous enough to make up for 
the other two classes! To the 
sophomors, it will mean a glorious 
vacation, followed by the happiest of 
all years, the junior year. To the 
plebes. it will mean a respite during 
which they can recover the dignity 
they lost for a while when they 
were in a state of servile bondage. 
It will be a happy summer, when 
they consider that next year they 
can be lordly and supercilous to the 
poor children coming to us from 
kindergarten, or rather, high school!
And now, for this year, we say 
let the past be past, the present be 
happy and the future unworried. We 
shall make next year even better 
than this one.
Till September, farewell! 
UNDERGRADS INVITED TO
BANQUET BY CONN. CLAN
(Continued From Page One.) 
officers. The surprise stuff" is go
ing to be good, too. Each under
graduate will receive a letter from 
the committee, detailing plans. Be 
on the watch for It.
Undergrade, show your stuff.
Some around and get acquainted 
with some of the older fellows. Weil 
he darn .glad to see you. if you
decide to come before the receipt of 
the letter, write D, A, (Red) Nomaor, *150 Washington street, Hart
ford, Conn,
(Continued From Page One.)
chairman of the Freshmen Regula
tions Committee, Sophomore repre
sentative on The Thistle, assistant 
tennis manager, a member of the 
Kiltie Band and has been - elected 
president of his class for next year.
The editors of the various depart
ments of the book, as appointed by 
the now editor, are as follows: 
Athletic editor, Russel Roller; tra
ditions editor Kline Fulmer; adver
tising manager, Murphy; art editor, 
John Osier; assistant, Helen Remaly 
(appointed upon recommendation of 
Prof. Ashe of the P. and T. depart
ment).
The new Thistle staff has already 
had several meetings, and are col
lecting material and making plans 
for their book. It is hoped that 
enough of the work will be done be
fore the end of this year, so that 
contracts may be made.
T.WSW TEVNO HADRDGLR Graduates of the 
HCIFR 1F 9D91DAR2 Commercial Dept.
A bill of four one-act plays open 
tonight in the Arts TheatrePa
ducah," by Harry Hamilton; Stuch," 
by Mrs. E. II. Harris; The Eagle 
and His Prey, by S. Y. Yui; and 
"Call the Police, by Harriett Walk
er.
The authors are fill regular stu
dents of the Drama Department, and 
this will be the first time this year 
that any play has been written, pro
duced, scenic affects designed, by 
the students of the department.
These four plays run Tuesday, 
Wednesday and Thursday evenings.
Beginning Saturday afternoon at 3 
oclock, Harry Hamiltons three-act 
drama, "From Now On," will be pro
duced with the author as director. 
A performance for the public is 
scheduled for Saturday night, and on 
Monday a special performance for 
Seniors.
J, V. GIBBONS APPOINTED
TO HEAD COMMONS
WED ALL WAIT FOR
THE 5 OCLOCK WHISTLE
There would sure be Hell to pay, 
Should God strike for an S-hour day!
(Continued From Page One.) 
quality of service to be given in the 
Commons next year, as well as in the 
other dining halls upon the campus. 
It is a well known fact that the main 
cause for complaint in the past has 
been the lack of decent equipment 
with which to work. Those who have 
had charge are due congratulations 
for the really good service given in 
the face of such handicaps as they 
had to face. With the greater co
operation which those who have in 
the past withheld promise, a real stu
dent community center should result.
Commons to Be Moved.
In advancing towards the student 
community center idea, many changes 
in cafeteria and dormitory meals are 
being planned. From the viewpoint 
of the men the change of the Com
mons location is by far the most Im
portant. As In the past it will be in 
the same building, but moved to the 
front part. The half now occupied by 
it will he turned into a workshop for 
Colonel Fairleys men. The two 
houses immediately in the back will 
be converted into studios for painting 
and illustration students. Not only 
will it be changed in location,  but 
also in appearance and arrangements. 
It is hoped to make these changes of 
such a nature that all objectionable 
features will be obliterated. Just ex
actly what these changes will be is 
as yet unknown.
From the viewpoint of' the student 
body as a- whole, Mr. Orb ins pet 
scheme regarding the future use of 
the Field House is the most import
ant. His plans for this building are 
certainly worth the highest commen
dations. In the very first place, let it 
be said that the Margaret Morrison 
Cafeteria on the top floor of the Mar
garet Morrison Building will cease to 
be. In its stead, the main floor of 
tlie Field House (nowT occupied by the 
gym floor) will function afK a cafe
teria. This dining nail will function 
at noontimes of school days as a cafe
teria, and at breakfast and dinner, 
will serve as dining hall for the Wood: 
lawn Avenue Girls dormitories. The 
section now occupied by seating 
space for basket ball games will bo 
converted into private dining room 
for members of the faculty, which 
doofl not moan I hey cahnot, if they 
so desire, sit In the student section.1 
They must pass through the lino, 
though, as table service will not bo a 
part of tliolr service. Entrance of all 
patrons, whether faculty or seniors 
or undergr.ids will be by two doors, 
one at each end, and exits at only one 
endthat in which the cashier sits.
Grill Room to Bo Opened.
And now comes the real improve
ment. The second floor will be occu
pied by a real honest-to-goodness, 
elghtoon hour a day, grill room, In 
which students can get service for 
lee cream, salads, sandwiches, soda 
water, and lunches at any hour of the 
day, plus service after dances 
whether they end at midnight, or 
three oclock in the morning.
This grlil room, It is 'hoped will de
velop into the student community 
ceiiter, so much desired at Carnegie. 
Decoration features will be especially 
thought out so as to make surround
ing appearances attractive. Panalled 
wood walls will be put in, and at one 
end a big open fireplace where .stu
dents can have a social hour after 
evening or for that matter, any meal. 
It will be one of the show places of 
Carnegie, where a student can always 
entertain his parents, or a friend in 
a manner worth while. A separate 
rest room will be furnished for both 
men and women.
Mr. Orbin expects to start worlf 
on this undertaking as soon as pos
sible.
She was as pure as the newlydriven snow, but she drifted.
T. W. STEVENS TO HEAD
NEW ART THEATRE
(Continued From Pago Ono.)
Under his leadership the depart* 
meni has progressed to I he highly 
developed state, which is today 
bringing it a fame all Its own. Ills 
years of service have produced and 
perfected a dramatic training school 
which not only provides artists for 
the theatrical profession, but also 
offers to students and citizens of the 
city an art interest which is con
stantly being more cultivated and 
more appreciated.
Members of the faculty and Drama 
students express deep regret at Mr. 
Stevens leaving. During his years 
at Carnegie he has won the love 
and respect of all with whom he has 
come in intimate contact. His place 
will be hard to fill.
The Student Council
OFFICERS
PresidentMilo Matter, 4921 Forbes St............................................Schenley 0659
Vice PresidentVernon S. Mollenauer, 4929 Forbes St................Schenley 9122
SecretaryElizabeth Yohe, 34 Southern Ave.............................Lafayette 0953-J
TreasurerM. D. Kallfelz, 4807 Baum Blvd....................................Schenley 9285
MARGARET MORRISON CARNEGIE COLLEGE
Senat; PresidentMary Stuempfle, 4916 Forbes St......................Schenley 9079
Senate TreasurerEdith Warren, 5141 Woodlawn Ave.......................;-------------
Senior PresidentHelen Gillespie, 324 Olive St., McKeesport,. ... McK. 2156-W
Senior RepresentativeBernice Rentz, 4916 Forbes'St................Schenley 9079
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Sonate PresidentD. A. Gardner, 5814 Forbes St.................................Hazel 9422
Sonate TreasurerJohn M. OConnor, 220 S. Rebecca St................Hlland 9680
Senior PresidentGeorflc. E. Slye, 5549 Forbes St.................................Hazel 3320
Senior RepresentativeC. H. James, 5218 Fifth Ave.....................Schenley 3399
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
Senate PresidentO. B. Newman, 4600 Forbes St...........................Schenley 6037
Senato Vice PresidentMargaret Taylor, 5052 Forbes St............Schenley 9063
Senate TreasurerD. K. Morrison, 210 McGill Hall......................Schenley 9068
Senior PresidentHoffcr Sload, 254 Belleficld Ave.........................Schenley 9102
Senior RepresentativeV. S. Mollenauer, 4929 Forbes St............Schenley 9122
COLLEGE OF INDUSTRIES
Senate PresidentM. D. Kallfelz, 4807 Baum Blvd.........................Schenley 9285
Senior RepresentativeA. S. Andrews. 4915 Forbes St.................Schenley 9211
Senate TreasurerD. V. Beede, 624 Clyde St...................................Schenley 9401
Senior PresidentA. E. Mellor, 630 Clyde St..................................Schenley 9189
WOMENS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
PresidentRose Morin, 3454 Forbes St.............................................Schenley 2199
MENS ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION
Re'presentative ............................................................................................... ...............
NIGHT SCHOOL
Rpresentative ................................................................................................. ...............
ASSISTANT SECRETARIES 
Barbara White Nora Willets Josephine Gay
(By Prof. Follows.)
"When I graduate In Commercial 
Engineering what kind of a job will 
I get? and at what salary?"
A good many students have been 
known to ask that double-barrelled 
question. And It certainly is , a
poser ........... if you fry to answer it.
A complete answer, of the two-plustwo variety, is impossible. The best 
I have been able to do reads some
thing like this:
Whatever your first job is, the 
chances are it will be most valuable 
as a stepping stone to the second, 
and the "salary" will be, or at least
should be, comparatively small..........
not big enough to deserve any seri
ous consideration while you are a 
student at C. I. T.
But just keep this in mind: You
will assuredly get a job! They all
do.............every last one of them,
without a single exception. I do not 
know of any graduate Of Carnegie 
who has not found useful, work to 
do; Carnegie is not graduating ho
bos. And you will be paid wages
 perhaps more than you had
hoped for, perhaps less. After that 
it will be up' to you.
But if, just now, you are looking 
for a little wholesome encourage
ment, why, there is plenty of that 
in what Carnegie Commercials are 
doing; and these men supply the 
best oC all possible answers to your 
question by showing you the kind 
of work you may with confidence
look forward to, and the type of po
sition you may hope to fill-, with 
satisfaction to yourself and your 
employer, after a few years of ex
perience.. ,
The men listed here happen to 
have kept in some touch with me 
......I hear occasionally from many
of them..........and will serve to show
in what a wide range of work the 
Commercial has proved success
ful during the past eleven years. As 
I listed these names and positions 
I confess that I was much impressed 
with what our men have achieved 
in so short a time.
Mitchell, Donald D., 13Manager, 
Cyril Johnson Woolen Company, 
Stafford Springs Con^i.
Powell William W. 13Sales manager, Mesta Machine Company, Pitts
burgh.
Auerswald, Howard R., 14Supertendent Gas and Water Department, 
Tulsa, Okla.
Carlisle, Thos. O. 14Member of 
firm, The C. L. Miller Company, 
Consulting and Contracting Engi
neers, Scottdale, Pa.
Gaylord, E. W., Jr., 14Engineer 
with Albert Kingsbury, Pittsburgh.
Grotefend, E. H., '14Production 
Manager, United States Alumnum 
Company, New Kensington, Pa.
Rou til, W. F., '14  Treasurer,
Knapp & Baxter of Japan, Yoko
hama.
Applegate; Harold B., 15.District 
Manager, 'Standard Oil Company, 
Madras, India.
Kelso, SEN S., 15.^Sales Engineer, 
Tate Jones & Ccompany.
Pringle, F. -M., 15.Transportation 
Engineer, Packard Columbus Motor 
Company, Columbus, Ohio.
Stockdale, H. S., 15Member of 
firm, Sales Agency for Terry Steam 
Turbine Company, Bellevlew, Pa.
Wolf, Harry A., 15.  Auditor
United States Government,
Cowan, A. H.,, MG.Assistant. For
eign Contracting Manager McClintic 
Marshall Products Coinpan, New
York.
Crawford, A. B., 16.Sales Corre
spondent, Duquesne Steel Foundry 
.Company, Pittsburgh.
Leech W. S., 16.Publicity Man
ager, A. M. Byers Company, Pitts
burgh.
Merrill, Gray E., 16.Production 
Manager, DeLaval Separator Coin-! 
pany, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
Minor, F. K., 16.Sales Manager, 
Abbott Conserve Company, Houston, 
Tex.
Shea, Thos. F., 16.Telephone En
gineer, Bell Telephone, Pittsburgh.
jSturges, E. B., '16.General Man
ager, Weiss Engineering Conipany, 
New York City.
Tumpane, J. P., 16.Employment 
Manager, M. S. Wright Company, 
Worcester, Mass.
Eaton, Cecil L., 17.Production
Manager. Pacific Machine Shop & 
(Manufacturing, Company, Seattle, 
Wash.
Emil, Paul W., 17Managing Editor Collins Service.
Fletcher, C. T., 17.  Efficiency 
Engineer, United States Aluminum 
Company, New Kensington, Pa.
Merrill, Leslie M., 17.Sales Man
ager,- The Ailing & Cory Company, 
Pittsburgh.
Weber, H. A., 17Master Me
chanic, Continental Rubber Works, 
Erie, Pa.
Cosgrove, Raymond C. IS.Sales 
Manager,, Westingliouse Electric & 
Manufacturing Company, Domestic 
Light and Power Unit, East PittsI burgh.
Iieltzel, W. G., > 18.Field Engi
neer, Sinclair Cudahy Pipe Line 
Company, Tulsa, Okla.
GrCtzler, E. M., '19.Foreign Cor 
respondent, National Supuly Com 
pany, New York.
Wilson. E. C., 17.Manager Rail
way Division, R. D. Nuttall Com
pany, Pittsburgh.
Juorgens. J. G., 19.District Man
ager. Standard Oil Company, Bata
via, Java.
Cheswick. Harold B., 19.Sales
Manager, National Supuly Company. 
Pittsburgh.
King, I., '22.Lubrication Eugineer. 
Bethlehem Steel Company, Johns
town. Pa.
Dobson. C., 22.Assistant Super
intendent of Practijce, Jones & 
Laukhlin Steel Corporation.
Sellichiuan, F. E 14 Manager, 
Homestead Valve Manufacturing 
Company.
Soule, R. T 'IS.Commercial En
gineer for the MacBetli-Evans Com
pany. Has interesting article 
last months number of Carnegie
Recently an instructor at a large 
Eastern University called one of his 
pupils to his office, and politely in
formed the young man that his pres
ence in classes given by the in
structor was non-essential and un
desirable.
The subject from which the in
structor excluded the student was 
Ethics. The reason given for the 
action was that the Youth disagreed 
with an abnormally large number of 
the subjects under discussion in the 
class room. His offence seems to 
have been that he refused to take 
the principles taught for granted.
This young man presumed to dis
agree with Darwins Theory of 
Evolution, although it has almost 
become a fashionable religion. He 
was uncertain that all Spiritualists 
were fakers. He disputed heredity. 
He refused to accept the Sermon on 
the Mount in principle (just as most 
of us refuse to accept it in prac
tice.) He debated the value of a 
Republican form of Government, and 
contended that civilization, as we 
know it, is flimsy and artificial. As 
a climax to all this Heresy of Here
sies, he proved to be a pacifist.
Now, that looks like a list of . of
fences long enough to send any man 
out of a self-respecting town on a 
steel rail, free, gratis and without 
charge. It is possible that the fellow 
was one of those troublesome chaps 
who will defend anything against 
any body simply for the joy of 
mincing words or of having an even
ing without lessons. Few of that 
type, however, will take the risk of 
incurring the displeasure of public 
opinion. The evidence seems rather 
to indicate that the boy was put out 
of his classes and a serious crimp 
was put into his career, because lie 
had independent ideas and was not 
content with digesting the mental 
meal as set before him, but had 
thoughts of his own. In other words, 
he was a Student.
Technical Journal.
Donnelly, J. J., '23.Engineer for 
The Oil Well Supply Company. Sta
tioned at Rawlins, Wyoming.
Leonard, John M., '21.Purchas
ing Agent, The Piqua Handle & 
Manufacturing Company, Piqua, 
Ohio.\ In letter received a month 
ago he says: Commercial Engi
neering is exactly what a purchas
ing agent needs.
There are scores of others equally 
successful, but the above will serve.
DISTINGUISHED VISITORS
MARK COMMENCEMENT
Continued From Page One.) 
a world-wide reputation in army 
service. During 18S4, under the 
supervision of the President, he 
made a report on the military value 
of the interior waterways of the 
United States. For several years 
following, he was a Professor of 
Military Science at the United 
States Naval War College, and mili
tary attache at the United States 
Legation in Madrid, in 1897-1898, 
and chief-of-staff to Major General 
James M. Wilson. He held the posi
tion of chief-of-staff with the rank 
of General, U. S. A., in 1917, and 
was a member of the Allied Confer
ence in 1917 'and the Supreme War 
Council In France. He was also a 
member of the American Commission 
to Negotiate Peace, which met in 
Paris, 1918-1919. For all these in
valuable services, he was awarded 
the D. S. Medal. Pie is among the 
most distinguished of Americans.
After the presentation of diplomas, 
a reception for graduates will be 
held in the foyer of Carnegie Music
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLE'S BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists' and Engineers Materials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
Books
For pleasure, for im
provement, for collater
al reading. Stationery, 
Engraving, Etchings, 
Prints.
PERMARNNT WVIGCOM
Sc/ienleyAn/srlOiion7riist$lctd 
' fitbbuigh
Assurance
Wherever there is a banking 
center this bank is known. 
Those travelers availing 
themselves of Mellon letters 
of credit, or travelers' checks 
are assured of the recogni
tion which follows identifica
tion with well and favorably 
known banking interests.
Mellon National Bank
Here at Carnegie, we are dealing 
largely with the more objective 
facts. It takes a mighty capable 
philosopher to argue, for instance, 
that the law of gravity is not the 
law of gravity, but something con
nected with relativity. It is difficult 
to dispute facts. It simply cant be 
done. However, we are not always 
dealing with subjects of that sort.
In many of the class rooms about 
the campus discussions are daily 
taking place. We are encouraged to 
express our views, and often forced 
to defend our convictions.
Carnegie is a place where students 
are urged to study and stimulated to 
think for themselves We are 
prompted to criticize statements, and 
emboldened to accept the conclu
sions of our own reasonings, rather 
than that of even the most ancient 
and venerated authorities.
Many definitions have been given 
to the word Education. Apparent
ly, the young man mentioned, did 
not agree with the definition put 
thereon by his institution. At this 
institution we believe that Education 
is simply a means for correcting the 
mistakes of common sense. Ac
cumulation of a lot of facts is not 
education.
Most of us will find ourselves bet
ter able to analyze situations this 
summer than we were during the 
last one. Where so-called common 
sense would tell us one thing we 
will find our education checking us 
up and showing us where "common 
sense is faulty. Our education does 
not begin in September and end in 
June. Nothing in this world is 
stationary.
This summer is our opportunity to 
show that we have not simply been 
trained to repeat a lot of statements 
made by others. Let us show the 
world that Carnegie is what she is. 
A University without a peer, and not 
a parrot farm.
Yours, For The Good Of Carnegie!
Hail by President Baker, the trus
tees, directors and deans of the four 
colleges which constitute Carnegie 
Tech.
SENIOR MEN VS. WOMEN
NATIONAL PASTIME
(Continued From Page One.) 
seriously and, despite the early pre
diction that the betting odds this 
year will be 6 to 5 favoring the men, 
they are sure they can win, even if 
they are barred from bringing, in 
their pinch hitters.
The Singer Pen & Gift SHop in the 
Jenkins Arcade wilj give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
ELDo&abO
l/ie master dmwingpencil'
Damon
Mow come youre getting along 
so well with Professor Roberts?
us t*1*3 morning that that last elTort of yours was a 
master drawing."
Pythias
"It couldn't have been other
wise. Didn't I use the master 
drawing pcncil'f"
17 loadsall dealers
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
..Pastor.
11 A.M. and 8 P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible ClasB.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
BE A NEWSPAPER 
CORRESPONDENT
with the 
HEACOCK PLAN 
and earn a good income while 
learning; we show you how; 
begin actual work at once all 
or spare time; experience un
necessary; no canvassing. 
SEND FOR PARTICULARS 
Newswriters Training Bureau 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. JUNE 3, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
i - ! PLAID ATHLETICS F -
TENNIS SEASON IS 
FAIRLY SUCCESSFUL
j NOTICE TO CANDIDATES
FOR FOOTBALL NEXT FALL
Carnegie Varsity and Plebe 
Teams Win More Games 
Than They Lose
Despite the gloomy forecasts re
garding tennis, Coach Fink has suc
ceeded in turning out good Varsity 
and Freshman teams, the former, 
while not winning the Tri-State 
championship as in former years, 
made a very creditable record. The 
team has, furthermore, been hand
icapped by the inclement weather, 
and for that reason has never really 
been able to reach top form, though 
at times exceptional tennis has been 
displayed by the men.
Below is a complete record of 
both Varsity and Freshman teams: 
VARSITY
Wash-Jeff -----4Carnegie.............. 2
West Virginia.. 0Carnegie............ 6
Bucknell .......... 0Carnegie........... 6
West Virginia.. 0Carnegie........6
Pitt .................. 5Carnegie............ 1
Alumni ............ 5Carnegie............ 1
Pitt .................. 2Carnegie............ 4
Wash-Jeff .... 4Carnegie...........2
Colgate ............ 5Carnegie.......... 1
FRESHMEN
Wilkinsburg Higli..OPlebes.......... 6
Westmont High... 2Plebes.......... 4
Pitt Freshmen___ 1Plebes..........5
Westmont High... 3Plebes.......... 1
Crafton High........ 4Plebes.......... 2
Pitt Freshmen___ 2Plebes.......... 4
In reviewing the varsity season, 
much credit is due the team for its 
two brilliant victories over West 
Virginia. Both of these contests 
were love matches, and more than 
made up for the loss of the two 
matches to Wash-Jeff by close 
scores. One of the biggest achieve
ments of the year was the clean 
sweep of the Bucknell match, inas
much as it was the first defeat suf
fered by Bucknell in tennis during 
the past three years. Although we 
lost to Pitt on our own courts, we 
evened up the count by trimming 
them on their courts. The Carnegie 
Alumni, boasting some of the Tar
tans most glorious tennis players of 
times past, succeeded in garnering a
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital........................300,000.00
Surplus........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
WRKHEYS
After Every Meal
Its the longest-lasting confection you can buy and its a help to digestion and a cleanser , for the mouth and teeth.
Wrlgleys means 
bene 111 as well as 
pleasure.
Graduate Manager of Athletics Bud
dy Over end requests that all men 
planning to play football next fall 
send in their names and summer ad
dresses to the athletic office before 
leaving school at the end of the se
mester. These addresses will be 
necessary when invitations are mailed 
out for training camp in September. 
Please do not delay, but see that your I 
address is in the office at once. Oth
erwise you may fail to receive a bid 
to attend training camp.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
RAIN CURBS PLEBE 
BASEBALL SEASON
victory from the Varsity team for 
the first time in several years.
Captain Smith and his mates, 
Beecher Rogers, Bourns and Bowron, 
are due unstinted praise for their 
good showing under adverse circum
stances. Captain Smith was, un
doubtedly, the best man on the 
team, but was closely followed by 
Beecher. These two men are widely 
different in the type of their game. 
Smith plays a hard driving game, 
and practically always puts forth his 
winning point on a hard and wellplaced . drive. His chop stroke is 
also good. On the other hand, 
Beecher prefers to make use ot a de
pendable and. steady grnhe. iTe plays 
every shot safely, and usuallly man
ages to out-maneuver his opponent.
Bourns has shown the most im
provement since the season began. 
His dependability has increased con
siderably, and he has thus added a 
at deal of strength to the team. 
He has made a good start, which 
coupled with his desire to learn, 
should auger well for the future. 
The same can be said of Bowron 
and Rogers. Rogers especially shows 
great possibilities. His driving is 
hard and fairly accurate, though it 
must be said his greatest fault ia 
his tendency to be somewhat erra
tic.
Next season will find Varsity ten
nis well fortified as none of the 
present members of the team will 
be lost, most of them having two 
more years of collegiate tennis! The 
team will be further strengthened 
by the addition of some first class 
performers from the Freshman 
team.
Freshmen Look Good.
The Plebes also have a good rec
ord in tennis this year. They hold 
victories over Wilkinsburg HHgih, 
Westmont High, and two wins over 
ihoir greatest rivals, the Panther 
Freshmen. Crafton and Westmont 
were the only tdams * to administer 
a defeat, but the Plebes looked good 
even in those games.
Captain McWilliams from the view
point of form and knowelge of the 
game Is the best man, but when it 
comes to turning in victories, Fred 
Rudisill must be given due credit. 
McWilliams played number one dur
ing the first four matches losing 
three timestwice to Davey O'Loughlin of Westmont and once to Cable 
of the Pitt yearlings. Davey OLoughlin was Natipnal Champion of the 
United States two years ago, and 
was ranked fourth last year, so that 
a loss to a player of such high 
calibi'e is no disgrace. The fact that 
McWilliams was sick and unable to 
play in the singles against Crafton 
probably had much to do with the 
Plebes' defeat at that time. Rudisiljs 
chief feat was in defeating Faulkner 
of Crafton, who was the winner of 
the W. P. I. A. L. trophy in tennis 
and the holder of the Harvard cup. 
Rudisill also defeated Cable of Pitt 
and John O'Loughlin of Westmont 
twice.
The other two men Hughes and 
Coover, playing the same type of 
game are almost on a par. The lat
ter, however, is more dependable, 
due to the fact that he has had 
more experience. 'Hughes has the 
ability and aggressiveness, and with 
more coaching should develop on 
their interest shown and for their 
constant practice. It is such sticktoittiveness. which wins out in .the 
end.
HEAD OF HEAT TREATING
DEPT. TO ENTER MINISTRY
(Continued From Page One.) 
where he was graduated. Later he 
served his apprenticship in New 
Foundland in forge work, heat treat
ment of steel, and ship building.
He came to Pittsburgh in 1900, 
and was employed, until his appoint
ment to the Carnegie teaching staff, 
in the Pittsburgh Locomotive Works, 
the Pressed Steel Car Company, and 
the Westinghouse Electric & Manuwacturing Company.
What a pity that all handsome 
men are conceited.
Not always, little girl; Im not.
Dress Suits To Rent
Tuxedos for the College Man
ORDERj EARLY 
For the Next Formal
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield 0341 Hours8:30-5:30
Get Extra Credits at Home
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modem Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sodomy, etc., 
are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully, 
fumi&ed on request. Write today.
95 ELLIS HALLOje mbecSitp of Cfjtcago
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
BOOST CARNEGIE
It is hardly necessary for us to ask those who have been at Carnegie 
Tech long enough to become Imbued with its spirit, its traditions, to go 
back home this summer and give the school a boost wherever possible. 
We know that will be done. But we also know there are among us, especially 
the Freshmen, those who have not yet learned what real Carnegie spirit is; 
then again, like every other school, we have some calamity howlers, who al
ways look on the dark side of things, finding fault at every turn.
Let us go home this summer and tell our friends how high Carnegie 
ranks in everything; tell about our scholastic achievements, the advantages 
to be derived from attending this institution; and above all, let us make 
clear to those high school boys who are athletically inclined that Carnegie 
ranks with the leading colleges in the country in that field. We are no 
longer in the Class B division, but can hold oui4 own with Pitt, Penn State, 
Wash-Jeff and the rest.
Especially in football, the big college sport, are we arrived." But. 
you will say, our football team next fall will be away below the one of the 
past two years. Look at the number of good men we are losingthe inimit
able Jimmy Robertson, the unmatcliable Jimmy Anderson and Brumbaugh 
from the backfield, and Comfort, Gilbert, Zelt and Taylor from th line. 
Only too true. The outlook in football is none too bright, but rest assured 
that while we have Wally Steffen with us, together with an ever-growing 
alumni who use their influence in getting good athletes interested in Car
negie, we are going to have a good football team. Takd our humble advice 
and when you talk to your friends back home, tell them that the Skibos will 
be right on deck, next fall, fighting for the glory of Caruegie and holding 
their own with the best of them.
One Victory, Three Losses 
Extent of Activities of 
Youngsters
FOOTBALL TRAINING CAMP 
Will again be held right here at the school in the fall. The plan last 
year was such a decided, improvement over the one of the previous season 
that it was unanimously agreed to train here. No stone is being left un
turned by the authorities in charge to have everything in lirst-class shape for 
tne opening of camp on Labor Day. The new dressing quarters underneath 
Margaret Morrison building will be in readiness by that time.
Coaches Steffen and Waddell have instructed the boys to be in fairly 
good shape when they arrive at camp, so that teams can be chosen at once 
and scrimmages held. There is a long, hard season ahead, and plenty of 
positions to fill on the team. If you have played any football at all, hand 
in your name to Graduate Manager Overend or to Miss Brainard at the 
Athletic Office, giving your summer address also. In the event that you are 
not favored with an invitation to attend training camp, do not be discouraged, 
but come out for the team when school opens. Remember, it is a difficult 
task to pick out the best men in a short time. The man who can stick to it 
wins out in the end. It is something worth while working for.
TRACK LETTERS TO BE AWARDED
The Athletic Council will meet this evening and one of the matters of 
Importance to confront it will be the awarding of letters in the various spring 
sports. It will doubtless be difficult to decide upon which men to confer 
letters in track this year, inasmuch as only five men, including those on the 
relay team, have made the required fifteen points this spring. As it generally 
works out, about ten or twelve men are awarded letters In track.
It is no easy task for any body of men to set down certain hard and fast 
rules for the awarding of letters in any sport, especially track. Here at 
Carnegie the rules say that a man must make a total of fifteen points in 
intercollegiate competition, or to run on the championship relay team. Pitt 
confers a letter if the required number of points are made in one or more 
years; still other schools award letters to men taking a first place in cortain meets. But no matter what the rule is, there usually are deviations 
from it.
The reason for awarding letters, of course, is to confor an honor or mark 
of distinction upon the recipient for services rendered in athletics to the 
school. The rules dare not be made too lax, for then it would be an ordin
ary thing to win a letter. On the other hand, they should not be so severe 
as to discourage the men from participation in track. When a happy medium 
is struck, then everything goes along smoothly.
HOW ABOUT GOLF?
The golf tournament fell flat this spring due to various causos. The 
main reason was that there were very few days in which to practice. The 
links throughout the month of May were unfit, and without practice the tour
nament could not well be a success. However, September will be bore 
sooner than we think, and It might be a good idoa to brush up a little on 
golf this summer and stage the tournament in the fall. IIow about it?
ADIOS
In closing, the athletic department of the Tartan bids fond adieu to all 
of heir friends, the readers of the Tartan. It is our fervent wish that, with 
the exception of the Seniors, you all will return in the fall to make next 
year even a bigger and better one than this which is just closing. To the 
outgoing Seniors we wish God-speod. And in the busy yoars to come, try 
to find It possible to come back often. Farewoll!
FRESHMEN END TENNIS 
SEASON WITH VICTORY
The freshman tennis team closed 
its season last Monday in a blaze of 
glory by dusting off the Pitt freshmen 
on the P. A. A. courts, score *1-2, This 
makes the second victory of Uie Car
negie plebes over the Panther cubs 
in as many starts.
Coach Fiulc switched his batting 
order somewhat, Rudisill being 
moved up to number one position, and 
Captain McWilliams placed number 
two. This was a good move, for the 
former trimmed Cable, Pitt captain 
who earlier in the year got a deci
sion over McWilliams.
The Carnegie youngsters took two 
out of three of the singles matches 
and one of the two doubles contests. 
Colvin of Pitt, overcame Coover of 
the Skibos in two straight sets, 
though the latter played hard to stave 
off defeat. The match was sewed up 
for Carnegie when Coover and 
Hughes handed McQuiston and Gor
don a lacing in the first doubles setto. Rudisill and McWilliams were 
taken across by Cable and Colvin in 
the other doubles encounter.
The playing of Rudisill and McWil
liams in the singles was the feature 
of the entire match. These boys 
were at the top of their form, and 
seemed bent upon out-maneuvering 
their opponents rather than putting 
up a strong offensive game.
The summaries: SinglesRudisill
(Carnegie), defeated Cable (Pitt), 6-4, 
5-7, 6-4; McWilliams (Carnegie), de
feated McQuiston (Pitt), 6-2, 2-6, 6-3; 
Colvin (Pitt) defeated Coover (Car
negie), 6-2, 6-3; Hughes (Carnegie); 
defeated Gordon (Pitt), 6-2, 6-3. Dou
blesCable and Colvin (Pitt) defeat
ed Rudisill and McWilliams (Car
negie), 8-6, 9-7; Coover and Hughes 
(Carnegie) defeated McQuiston and 
Gordon (Pitt), 6-2 6-4.
SENIOR THEATRE PARTY
TO CLOSE FESTIVITIES
(Continued From Page One.)
Newt .......................... Hardle Albright
Pansy ............................. Mary Powers
Jelly ........................... Verner Halden
Warfield ................. Austin Coughlin
Homer ..................... David Crandel!
Branch ..................... Warren Kimball
From Now On is Harrys latest 
production, and is also being direct
ed by him. The characterization of 
people of the play, and the knowl
edge of the subject and its handling 
show the author to be a writer of 
talent. 
The performance promises an en
tertaining evening, and all Seniors 
are urged to attend. It is open only 
to Seniors.
FIRST FRESHMAN TRACK 
TEAM HAS GOOD SEASON
For the first time in the history of 
Tartan athletics, tho school has boon 
represented by a freshman track 
team. Considering that fact, the two 
victories and ono defoat Is not such 
a bad showing for the yearlings.
The first dual meet was against 
Schenley High. Tho plobes had a 
hard time disposing of tho High 
School boys from tho hill, score 56- 
51. This meet brought out a thrilling 
race between Pock of the plobes and 
Hoffman of Schenley in the milo run 
The former nosed out Hoffman in the 
last five yards.
The second dual was won from In
diana Normal by the one-sided score 
of 81 to 23. The visitors were out
classed in every department. Indiana 
scored only one first place, that being 
in the high jump. The hardest fought 
event was the mile relay. The plebes 
took the lead at the outset, and 
while not one of the runners were 
headed, Indiana kept right at the 
heels of their opponents, there being 
only a few yards separating the men 
at the finish.
The Pitt freshmen, however, flashed 
the best aggregation of cinder path 
artists seen here for some time. They 
completely romped awi\y with the
A new sport oxford for 
campus, links, court or 
veranda! Soft tan buckskin 
apron and side panels of 
calfskin artfully combined 
for servis and comfort  
John Ward Suppl Soles of 
cruderubber -TheSeapuit, 
and many other new 
models, wil be shown by 
David T. Kirkpatrick at
SKIBO INN 
Monday June 9
The SEAPUIT 
$9
Starts in IfewYorkJrpoWyn.Newark Pfcila.^ Address for Mail Orders Duftxu? aorcst-NewYotk Cuy
Only tour games wore played by 
tho freshman baseball team this 
spring, due to the excessive amount 
of rainfall during the month of May. 
As it was, Coach Don Blythe was 
able to get in only three practice ses
sions during May. Naturally this 
handicapped the playing ot the men 
considerably. Quite a numbor of 
games had to bo cancelled on accouut 
of wot grounds. Of course, this was 
an unusual year in that respect.
Tho plebes dropped three of their 
four games played. Tho games played 
were as follows:
Shadyside Academy 5, Plebes 12.
Indiana Normal 16, Plobes 12.
Knoxville Union 12, Plebes S.
Bellevue High 10, Plebes 5.
Everyone of tho games played wore 
marked by hard hitting on both 
sides. The plobes presented a good 
hitting aggregation, but until the last 
game were not well fortiflod in tho 
pitching department. Harmon, a 
southpaw, was taken from first base 
and made over into a pitcher, while 
Esclier, an outfielder, was also con* 
verted into a pitcher. These men 
bore the brunt of tho pitching until 
Lynch joined the squad. Lynch is a 
pitchor of ability, but he hurt his arm 
early in the year and was unable to 
do much with it until late in the 
season.
To show that tho yearlings have 
some good sluggers on tho team 
three of thom clouted out homors dur
ing tho season. Thoso inon woro 
Voght, Bowser and Dlflloy. Voght 
got his circuit smash in tho first 
gamo against Shadysido Acadomy, 
while Bowser and Diffioy got tholrs 
in the Indiana Normal gamo.
Tho plebes presented a good field
ing team, though they woro greatly 
handicapped by tho lack of a good 
fiold on which to practlco, as well us 
by tho rain. Tho floldlng, togothor 
with tho good hitting, would liavo cnablod them to win ovory gamo played 
had they boon blossod with good 
pitching.
That tho freshmen will sond up 
somo good men for tho varsity next 
year is cortain. Diffioy and Webster 
am catchers of oxcoptlonal ability, 
while Lynch is a good lnfioldor and 
pitcher. Harmon and Eschor also 
should show up well next yoar as 
pitchors. For tho Infield there aro 
Bowsor, Snydor and Voght, ovoryono 
of them good Holders and hitters. In 
tho outllold Shrlvor, Stonor and Tur
ner liavo boon doing most of the' 
work.
Mnnagor Rogors, togothor with his 
assistants. Is to bo complimented for 
tho manner In which ho handled tho 
team undor adverso conditions.
moot against tho plobos, tho final 
score being 1)7 % to 11) M:- The Tar 
tan yearlings could not roglstor a sin
gle first places. Especially In tho run
ning events did tho Plttltos show up 
well. It was not uncommon to soo 
them tako overy place In some of 
thoso ovonts.
Ted Stults, brother of tho famous 
Larry Stults, captain of tho Tartan 
track team Iti 1922, was oloctod cup 
tain of the plebes this yoar. He did 
somo good work In tho hurdles and 
broad jump, and will be dopondGd up
on next spring to tako Robertsons 
place in the hurdles. Ewing and 
Peck look like tho host dlstanco men, 
doing both tho 880-yard run and tho 
mile. Tho former especially looks 
good, and with additional coaching 
and experience should dovolop into 
a good varsity mqn. Hamilton and 
Shrivdr look like tho best bets in the 
dashes on the plebe team, and should 
come along fast, though nttRbnr, was 
able to place in the Pitt m 
Kinney and Flowers have b 
erlng the goods in the 440,..,. ...  .de
Vries has taken places in the hurdles, 
Nimick and Rhoades are among the 
best field and weight men.
Manager Enos Johnson handled the 
meets very efficiently.
PROF. WURTZ RETIRES
FROM ACTIVE SERVICE
(Continued From Page One) 
Tungsten lamp. After this dis
covery, Mr. Wurts becajne manager 
of the company which produced the 
Nernst lamps.
Since coming to Carnegie, Pro 
fessor Wurts has been actively mak 
ing improvements in the field of the 
Electrical Engineering. He has 
found an electrical method for the 
annealing of tool steel stock, and Is 
now developing a commercial method 
of plating aluminum. These con
tributions to the industry are only 
a few of the things that Professor 
Wurts has done during Ills career, 
many other processes and advance 
ments have been worked out and 
put on a commercial basis by him.
In losing Professor Wurts, Car
negie is losing a man who has done 
a great work for the school and for 
the Electrical Engineering world
BALL NEXT TUE8DAY
ENDS SENIOR WEEK
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
mondatlon for the manner In which 
they have bandied tho preparations 
for the affair. M. Arthur Brace, as 
chairman, together with E. F. Brown, 
10. P. Couse and J. B. Whitman, are 
the people who worked on this com 
mlttee.
Tickets for the Ball are on sale 
for two dollars per couple, and may 
be secured from any member of the 
committee.
TRACK MEETING IS
SATURDAY, JUNE 7
All track lettor men, members of 
the varsity track squad, managers 
and assistant managers aro invited 
to attend tho big food and gab-fost to 
bo hold at tho Woodlawn Club 
promptly at S p. m. Saturday, Juno 7. 
The main business of tho mooting will 
bo tho eloction of a captain tor next 
spring, but. it is rumored that Trainer 
Bort Munhall and Coach Guy IlalCorty 
will put on a side sketch which will 
bring tho crowd to tfolr feet. Bo 
there promptly at S oclock.
VARSITY BASKETBALL 
SCHEDULE ANNOUNCED
With tho exception or tho opening 
game pending against Princeton, the 
varsity basket ball schedule for next 
winter is already completed. It calls 
for sixteen games, and on tho wholo 
appears to bo well balanced. The 
hard games are well placed on the 
schedule, with a fow of the easier 
games interspersed. IMtt.-Penn State, 
Wash-Jeff and Grove City will doubt
less offor tho stiffest. opposition. An 
eastorn trip will bo undertaken short
ly after the first semester ends. It 
will be noted that no games will bo 
playod from January 20 until aftor 
tho first somoster exams.
Midgo Matter will captain the bas
ket ball quint next wlntor, and Dick 
Cutting will be the manager. A suc
cessful season is looked forward to, 
sinco practically all of the men ot this 
yoar, including Amans, stellar for
ward who dropped out of school lit the 
end of tho first somoster, will bo back 
next winter.
The schodulo follows:
December 29Princoton, boro
(pending).
January 10Penn State, thoro.
January 13Geneva, thoro.
January 16Wash-Joff, thoro.
January 20Pitt, thoro.
Fobruary 6Grove City, hero.
Fobruary 10Gonova, boro.
Fobruary 13Pitt, horo.
Fobruary 19Franklin & Marshall, 
Lancaster.
Fobruary 20Droxol Institute, Phil
adelphia.
Fobruary 21City Collogo of Now 
York, there.
Fobruary 27Wash-Joff, horo.
Fobruary 28W. Va. Wosloyan, 
horo.
March <1Allegheny, hero.
March (iGrovo City, thoro.
March 7Westminster, thoro.
SCOTCH THISTLES
PLANTED ON LAWN
(Oon,tlnuod From Tage Ono.)
of Carnoglos allotment by tho contlnuod wot woathor, they will Bloom 
very fall, and paint a rich purple 
C on tho groon of tho campus.
COLGATE TOO MUCH 
FOR PLAID NETMEN
Bourns Wins Only Match for 
Carnegie in the Seasons 
Last Sport Event
Officially closing Carnogies Techs 
spring sport card, the varsity nqtmen 
went down to defeat before the con
sistent and clovor playing of the Col
gate squad, score 5-1. The match was 
a long-winded affair aud although 
woll played by both teams, tho Plaid 
racqueters plainly suffered from tho 
lack of practice during the past week.
Captain Smith lost tho initial match 
aftor a hard-fought struggle. Tho 
winning points were earned by the 
Colgate man only after a most stren
uous fight. Superior playing, 11 ue 
placements and hard drives to the 
back court by Rockafeller served to 
wear down tho Carnegie captain.
Beecher lost his first singles match 
of the year to Devine of Colgate. It 
was a long uud hotly contested match, 
well played throughout. The result 
was always In doubt until tho win
ning point was driven over. Beecher 
aced out several times on excellent 
service, but Devine came out ot the 
pinches with swift driven to even the 
count.
Rogers won his first set, and in a 
seeming slump dropped the next two, 
although coming up from behind sev
eral times to ovou tho score and force 
Benjamin to untie a douce count to 
win. Bowron, with hard hitting and 
good net work, did his best work 
whop toamod up with Bourns In the 
doubles.
To Bourns goos tho credit of sav
ing tho Plaid from a shutout. Ho 
went through a spoedy, consistent 
gamo to boat Frank and score tho 
Tartans only victory. Tho doubles 
wont off In quick stylo, though thoy 
woro hard-fought, ospocially the ono 
In which Smith and Beecher paired 
off togothor.
Tho summary:
SinglesUockafollor, (Colgate), de
feated Smith, (Carnegie), 6-1, 6-1;
Dovlno, (Colgato), dofoatod Beecher, 
(Carnoglo), 12-10, 8-6; Benjamin, Col
gato), dofoatod Rogors, (Carnoglo), 
3-0, 6-4, 6-2; Bourns, (Carnoglo), dofoalod Frank, (Colgato), 0-3, 5-7, 6-4.
DoublosDovlno and Benjamin., 
(Colgato). dofoatod Smith and Bee
cher, (Carnoglo), (1-3, 3-6, 6-2.
Rookafollor and Frank, (Colgato), 
defeated' Bourns and Bowron, (Carr 
noglo), (l-l, 6-3.
Hoar no ovll, IOO no evil, npoi\k 
no ovll," gesture the throe monkeys 
on the umililo, but, as some discern
ing nogntlvlst may liavo pointed out, 
It doos talco three monkeys.
If you knew
what ageing in wood 
does for pipe tobacco
Even tlio finest Kentucky 
Burley Tobacco (and thats the 
kind wo use) is green and raw 
when itsp ul led. Y ou could hardi y 
6inoke one pipe load of it.
And heres where Velvet is dif
ferent: Our ageing takes out that 
rawness and harshness, and 
makes the tobacco mild and mel
low and gives it fine flavor. Age
ing in wood does what no artificial 
treatment can do.
Rememberaged in wood.
-Velvet Tobacco
Lioorrr A Myrm Tobacco .**
STUDENTS ATTENTION!
THE PLACE YOU HAVE BEEN 
LOOKING FOR has now OPENED
THE SCHENLEY COFFEE SHOP 
and DELICATESSEN
3957 Forbes Street
The menu offers a splendid variety of well 
cooked food at reasonable prices
COME AND BE CONVINCED
Auf hammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 3, 1924
&ALUMNI PAGE&
The Department of Commercial 
Engineering
By W. E. Mott.
A pioneer course of study In any 
ejuStional field Is sure to repiro 
jnodlil cations as it develop under 
stress of actual working conditions. 
In other words, it experiences "grow
ing palna," and must bo treated ac
cordingly.
The courae known an Commercial 
Engineering lias been changed In 
several way a ainco it waa inaugurated in ore Ilian thirteen yoara ago, 
hut Ita continued aucceaa haa amply 
fulfilled tho hopes of lta builders. 
Dean Leeto and hla aaaoclatea were 
ploncera In tliia field and the Car
negie courae, which waa designed to 
Jit engineering graduates for tlie 
hualneaa, or administrative, phases 
of fch'elr professional work, waB one 
of tho first, if not actually THE firat 
courae of atudy of tills character. 
Tho conventional type of engineering 
curricula, aa offered fifteen or 
twenty yearn ago, waa Intended to 
Jit men for tho atrlctly technical aide 
of their profoaalonal work, rather 
than for tho hualneaa aide.
It waa taken for granted that the 
young engineer would train lilmaelf 
to become export In business mattera If called upon to do admlnistrative work.
It la probable that a majority of 
our engineering graduatea aerved a 
longer, or ahorter, ajiprenticeahip in 
designing work, but If they develop
ed tho capacity to direct the work 
of other and allowed hualneaa abil
ity they ahortly became foremen, 
and thua advanced to managerial 
poaltlona. Later ontho more tal
ented, or Induatrloua onea, develop
ing under the stress of keen compe
tition, might aapire to executive 
work of tho highoat order. Moat of 
tlieao mon, howovor, would tell ua 
that they were handicappod in per
forming tho joba which cnmo to 
them, by a lack of training in bnsinoH fundamental, aucli an account
ing, hualneaa organization, finance 
and kindred subjects, a working 
knowlodge of which tho young businoaa man acquires early in lila 
caroer.
Tho curriculum in Commercial 
Engineering in doaigned to impart 
this understanding of business moth* 
ods and, at tho aamo time, train tho 
student in those aclontlilc prlndplea 
which undorlie all sound engineer
ing work.
With this end in viow, tho under* 
graduate rocoivos inatruetion In 
thoso fundamental subjects which 
aro universally conceded as oMaontlnl 
In all engineering courses of ntudy, 
namely, mathoniatlca, chemistry,
physics, mechanics, materlala, draw
ing, English', etc. General economic 
1R important in tho training of all 
engineers, but for commercial engi
neer, it la Indiapenalblea basic 
courae.
Couraea in dealgning and construc
tion do not follow' the scientific In 
tho commercial  engineering curri
culum, but In their place, aro Intro
duced, more or leaa theoretical, and 
applied couraea in buainoaa techni
que.
Modern Industry" and "Economic 
District of the United State" fur
nish the atudont a knowledge of the 
Hotting and general hualneaa conditlona under which he will carry on 
hla later work.
Psychology, tho atudy of the mind 
and lta operations, aervoti aa an in
troduction to later coursos having to 
do with labor and poraonal problema. Buainoaa organization and 
management, the function of banka 
and credit In buIneB operation 
are topics which aro covered In ap
propriate couraea. The principle of 
accounting, coat accounting and 
Htatiatlca give tho engineer the 
means whereby he may follow ac
curately the financial success or 
failure of hla operatlona, aa well aa 
aet forth the aamo for the benefit 
of othera.
Good form in writing letters and 
apecifications, the paychology of ad
vertising and selling, markets and 
marketing, foreign trade and trans
portation all liavo their appropriate 
places in the curriculum. Business 
law is an important course and in 
order to keep in constant touch, or 
balance, with tho engineering held, 
courses dealing with tho application 
of scientific principles to electrical 
and mechanical engineering work, 
and the operation of machinery are 
carried along with tho commercial 
courses.
Tho varied industries of tho Pitts
burgh district furnish an unusual op
portunity to round out tho entire 
curriculum by introducing a course 
in production and distribution. In
spection visits aro made regularly to 
many plants which aro chosen, both 
for their variety of product and excollonco of management. Executives 
and exports from tlioae planta lec
ture to tho students before tho visits 
are made, so that the latter go about 
thpso Industrial works with an in
telligent understanding ot their plan 
and purpose.
Carofully proparod roporta aro re
quired of each student. Courses In 
Commercial Engineering aro no 
longer an experiment and tho sueeoBB of the graduates Is ample justi
fication for their further dovolopment.
ALUMNI!
nil set to bnrk Ito uaunl nilPuppet la flnttlnn nil set to bnrk Its'uaunl nine times next yenr. Now 
Is the time to aet In the wlnter'u conl nntt act uet for nine Joyoua rounda of 
rnucouo luuuhter. Fill In the blnnk below nnd mnll It Inwe'll do the rest.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN 
REPORTS ACTIVITIES
Alert OrganizationShowsFine 
Record of Affairs Held in 
Carnegies Name
That the Youngstown Clan la a 
peppy organization is conclusively 
proved by the report of their ac
tivities during tho past year. The 
Clan ia to be commended for their 
work In tho name of Carnegie.
Tho following la a aynopala of 
what tho Youngstown Carnegie Clan 
has dono during the past year, which 
you asked for in your letter of 
February 20:
"October 1, 1923Dinner at Y. M. 
C. A. Plans discussed for attend
ing Carnegie football games. Seven
teen members present.
November 5, 1923Dinner at Y. 
M. C. A. Fifteen members present.
"December 3, 1923Dinner at Y. 
M. C. A. Buddy Overend spoke on 
athletic outlook for the year. Fund 
started to erect a memorial to the 
late Frank Haaren. Eighteen members preaent.
"February 4, 1924Penn StateCarnegle dinner dance-bridge. A 
very friendly feeling exista between 
tiieae two alUmni bodies in this city. 
About thirty-two couples attended.
February 20, 1924  Carnegie
Musical Club concert. Although the 
cluba wore brought here by the 
South High Alumni Association, 
Carnegie Alumni helped very ma
terially in putting this concert across 
by advertising, selling tickets and 
housing twenty members of the club.
"During the Christmas recess, Car
negie men attended school, ran a 
dance at the Ohio Hotel, featuring 
Steve Kovachs Collegiate Imps. The 
Clan assisted in advertising and sell
ing tickets. Tho dance was a huge 
success, and the school gained much 
favorable publicity.
"Also, it is the policy of the Clari 
members to talk up Carnegie to 
every prospective student they may 
moot. There aro several enthusias
tic Clansmen teaching in tho high 
schools of the city. They are always 
on tho lookout for somo future Carnegel prospect, and never fall to put 
In a good word.
"At the next meeting of the Clan, 
to take place soon, new officers will 
be elected."
L. D. WOODWORTH.
CARNEGIE ALUMNA GIVES 
A TALK AT IOWA DINNER
THE R. 0. T. C. I ALUMNI ARE INVITED
DEPARTMENT
Summarizes Its Purpose in 
Training Students for Pa
triotic ServiceMuch Pro
gress Has Been Made
GOOD COURSES GIVEN
TO GRADUATEDANCE
Final Ball for Seniors to be 
Held in Foyer of Fine 
Arts Building
Clroulntlon Mannoer,
CMrnoale Tooh Puppet,
Ciirneqln Tech,  '
Plttubui'flh, Pn.
Donr Art:
I wont to bn In on the Know next yonr. Endowed find two 
buakn. Do your tuff.
NOTE: Russian rubles, German mark and Chinoso washers 
accepted afl cash up to $0.02 (2 conta).
ALUMNI DUES NOW PAYABLE
The Alumni Oillco dosIroB to an
nounce that tho annual dues for the 
coming year should bo mailed at 
once to G. L. Tilbrook, treasurer, as 
tho fiscal term begins on .Tune 1, 
1924, und ends on May 31, 1925.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
SENIORS WILL LEAVE
FOR PICNIC WEDNESDAY NOON
(Continued From Pago One.) 
should have had ono of tho best timos 
of their lives.
Such a time is well worth a dollar, 
and onch Senior should make it a 
point to grab at this bargain. Get 
that tag now!
Mias Viola Blakely of Dos Moines, 
educational director of Younker 
Bros. department store, spoke to a 
large assembly of Ames (Iowa) 
business men and tlielr omployes at 
tho Sholdon-Munn Hotel recently. 
The occasion was tho socond of tho 
aeries of dlnnora and speakers to bo 
presented by the butler buslnoas 
division of tho retailors' commlttoo 
of the Chamber ol! Com merco.
Miss Blagoly, a graduate of Car
negie Tech, Is a nativo Iowan, and 
gave her hearers a number of 
grapmp illustrations from her work 
In retail selling and co-operative re
tailing,
in part, she said: "Rotating Is a
profession, and has become so since 
the extension of modern educational 
facilities. The public is fast becom
ing educated In the art of retailing, 
as well. The retail selling field 
must meet tho pace of community 
development. Consequently, tho re
tailor must train his employes and 
the employes must be trained to 
meet the demand of the new pro
fession.
A number is questions were asked 
Ihe'oriect- close of. her
*ovv .nswered with satisrriii?>v\A^e inquirers. *
What a whale of a difference 
just a few cents make ! 
all the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette 
and  FTIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.
The primary object of the Re
serve Officers' Training Corps is to 
provide systematic military training I 
at . civil educational Institutions for 
the purpose of qualifying selected 
students at such Institutions for ap
pointment as reserve officers in the 
military forces of the United States. 
However, it Is recognized that the 
basic military training received by 
atudents, who for various reasons 
fail to complete their qualification 
coures for tho reserve corps, is of 
considerable military value to the 
Government.
The R. O. T. C. units are technical 
in character/consisting of the Signal 
Corps Unit, Engineer Corps Unit 
and Motor Transport Corps Unit. 
The Motor Transport Unit will be 
discontinued this year, as was noted 
in The Carnegie Tartan of May 27. 
In these technical units the  courses 
are planned to comprise those 
phases of military education and 
training which are fundamental and 
common to all arms, as well as 
those of a technical nature, which 
pertain primarily to signal com
munications and to engineering in 
wnr. The controlling principle is to 
so balance and combine these two 
classes of training in the course of 
Instruction as to furnish the student 
a thorough groundwork for his far
ther development as an officer in 
the military service.
While enrollment In the R. O. T. 
C. is primarily a patriotic duty it 
is our endeavor to so present the 
subjects as to appeal to the faculty 
and the student body, not only as a 
contribution to the national defense, 
but also as an educational measure 
with a direct utilitarian value in the 
daily life of the technical man. It 
is the endeavor of the department to 
plan tho instruction that it will he 
progressive, and will conduct the 
student, step by step, through the 
various phases of training, begin
ning with those appropriate to an 
intelligent private and treminating 
with those pertaining to a second 
lloutenant. To this end the schedule 
Is so arranged, with somo exceptions, 
as to cover, during the first two 
yoars, such military fundamentals 
and such technical subjects or por
tions tlireof, as to render tho student 
reasonably competent to perform the 
duties of a non-commissioned officer 
In a company of tho Signal or Engi
neer Corp's. Upon completion of 
three years work ho should be able 
to perform tho duties of a Master 
Sorgoant, and tho end of the full 
course, including the Advanced 
Camp, should find him reasonably 
familiar with tho dutios of a junior 
oillcor and competent to command 
and supervise the Instruction of a 
platoon. He >8hould liavo a working 
knowledge ot military organization, 
tactics, strategy, history and policy 
- all with Bpoclal reference to the 
role of tho technical man in war.
To enter the It. O. T. C. a student 
must bo a citizen of the United 
States, in good physical condition, 
and intending to pursue a day degroo . course. Special arrangements 
aro made for the admission of stu
dents entering in February and in
tending to complete their school 
course in three nnd one-half years. 
Advanced standing is granted stu
dents who have pursued R. O. T. C. 
training elsewhere.
Students of the Electrical Engi
neering Department of the College of 
Engineering, and those majoring in 
physics, are eligible for enrollment 
in the Signal Corps. Students of all 
other departments in the College of 
Engineering, all departments in the 
College of Industries, and the De
partment of Architecture in the Col
lege of Fine Arts, are eligible for 
the Engineer Corps. The prescribed 
course comprises three hours at
tendance, and the necessaiy prepara
tion hours, per week, in Freshman 
and Sophomore years, and five hours1 
attendance, plus preparation hours, 
in Junior and Senior years. How
ever, as the Electrical Engineering 
Department gives courses essential 
to the Signal Corps officer, and as 
every branch of engineering and con
struction finds its application in 
modern war, the credit for two of 
the required five hours attendance 
in the two higher classes is given for 
work in these other departments of 
the institution. Thus all years of R. 
O. T. C. require three hours attend
ance and a varying number of pre
paratory hours.
It Is recognized that it is not the 
function of tho Military Department 
to giro instruction In tho funda
mental thoorlos of engineering, but 
rather to shok tho practical appli
cation of engineering principles and 
mot hods to military operation. Tho 
subjects proscribed for the R. O. T. 
C\ units are, accordingly, correlated 
with tho instruction in cognate sub
jects in the regular curriculum, so 
that their application, under war 
conditions, are indicated, and tho 
differences, between military and 
civil practice emphasized.
In recognition of the value of the 
R. O. T. C. the institution now per
mits the student in Freshman and 
Sophomore years to elect military 
training in place of an equivalent 
numbers of hours in certain other 
subjects. Similar : credits are being 
worked out for Junior and Senior 
years.
Tuesday, June 10, will be an event
ful day in the lives of Carnegie 
students and alumni, for on that day 
another great class, the class of 
1924, will leave the halls of their 
Alma Mater, never more to return as 
atudentsbut as alumni.
A fitting climax to their college 
career has been planned  in the way 
of the Commencement Ball, which 
will be held that evening in the Arts 
Foyer. You may shed tears for 
your departing friends that morning, 
but you must smile and be glad with 
them that night.
Both the undergraduates and 
alumni should be there in full force 
the former to wish them godspeed 
and the alumni to welcome this great 
body into their ranks.
Especially is it fitting that the 
alumni should avail themselves of 
this last chance of setting an ex
ample for the class. It is for the 
good of Carnegie that her alumni re
turn frequently and keep acquainted 
with all the happenings and changes 
which concern her welfare. Come to 
the Commencement Ball and show 
these Seniors that there is some
thing worth returning for, and make 
them feel that they, will be back at 
every possible opportunity.
Tickets for the ball are on sale at 
$2. Hines Orchestra has been en
gaged ,and will undoubtedly pull its 
best stuff in its first appearance on 
our campus. The affair is going to 
be the gayest of the season, and 
you wont want to miss it.
THE TELESCOPE
THE CLANS
As we go to press for the last time in the present school year it is well 
worth while to look about us and survey the progress made during the past 
nine months. In one respect, we believe, there has been a great deal of im
provement. The publicity this year has been more complete. The Clans, 
have made some effort to let each other know what has been happening. 
The letter from the anonymous writer early in the year did a great deal of 
good in that respect. It awoke us to what the world in general thinks of an 
organization which goes into seclusion.
THE SENIORS
About the time that this issue 
reaches the Alumni the graduates of 
1924 will be leaving Carnegie to 
scatter themselves in the various lo
calities of the country. Some of 
them will go into localities where no 
Clans are formed as yet. We would 
advise all to take a survey and see 
if there are not now enough Car
negie people in the district for the 
formation of a Clan.
Some of the Seniors will, however, 
come into towns or cities where 
Carnegie Clans do exist. Many of 
them will not know it until some 
time next year, though. By that 
time associations and social obliga
tion have already taken such a hold 
that it will be practically impos
sible to arouse the old spirit again.
The old sage knew his stuff, when 
he said: Strike while the iron is
hot!
The Clans need the new men and 
women, and the young graduates 
need the Clans. Let us justify our 
existence.
THE SONG BOOK
Several of the live Clan organiza
tions have ordered a supply of 
books to have on hand at their 
meetings. The book, we assure you, 
is not in an experimental form. It 
is a real value proposition. Surely, 
you know that the Staff could not 
have sold fifteen hundred of them so 
quickly had alumni, faculty and
MEMORIAL FOR HAAREN 
STILL BEING PLANNED
MAIL ORDERS FOR SONG 
BOOK BEING SENT OUT
Information comes from Mr. Over
end in the Graduate Managers Of
fice that the subscriptions received 
for the Haaren Memorial have now 
totalled about sixty-seven dollars.
Many questions have been asked 
by both alumni and students con
cerning the placing of this dedication 
to Mr. Haaren, and the type of
memorial it will be. As yet no 
definite plans have been decided up
on. The general idea, however, is 
that it will be in the form of a 
bronze tablet, with a fitting inscrip
tion. A spot has not been chosen, 
as yet, for its placement, but a
new trophy room will soon be in the
process of preparation in the New 
Gym, and it is probable that the 
Haaren Memorial will be put there. 
In the trophy room will be on dis
play the cups, banners, medals, etc., 
won by the students of Carnegie 
Tech in athletic contests. These 
trophies have been the accumulation 
of many years of effort in different 
branches of athletics, and are the 
reward of much exertion and en! doavor on the part of Mr. Haaren 
to bring Cnrnegies athletics up to 
a high standard. Among these sym
bols of victory, which were amassed 
under his management at Carnegie, 
it is truly suitable that the tablet in 
npprecintlon of Mr. Iiaarens work 
should be placed.
The Song Books, which were seserved for alumni from the second 
edition, are being mailed out now.
The Carnegie Song Book Staff will 
continue to receive mail orders for 
copies of the second edition of the 
Carnegie Song Book. Orders which 
are received up to September 1, will 
b mailed by September 15, so that
students not been convinced of their 
real value.
THE COMING YEAR 
It is appropriate that we should' 
look ahead at this time. THE CAR
NEGIE TARTAN has great hopes; 
for the future. If we shall, in some 
measure, aid in binding the alumni 
and student bodies closer together 
we shall have succeeded. The past 
year represents the first serious ef
fort made along that line We feel 
that something has been done, but 
we realize, more than ever, the need. 
With the co-operation of the alumni 
everywhere we can serve you. Alone,, 
we stand helpless.
BAWL US OUT
Recently a group of Y. W. C. A. 
leaders from various colleges got 
together and talked things over. The 
chief difficulty seemed to be a lack 
of enthusiasm. One girl said: If
only our girls would get wild about 
carrying canes, or anything at all,.
I would take it as a hopeful sign. 
This trouble is not confined to un
dergraduates. If only some of. our 
readers would show signs of life r 
It is tiresome for Reporters to 
write, week after week, without ever 
knowing if it is being read. If you 
have nothing to kick about, send us 
a complaint. We are human beingsas well as you.
SLONG!!
Another year has gone. What are 
you going to do For The Good Of' 
Carnegie during the next one?
their recipients will have sufficient 
opportunity to use them before the 
beginning of the football season.
All mail orders for the Song Book 
should be addressed to the Carnegie 
Song Book Staff, Box 65, Carnegie 
Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa.
First Dad: My boy surely is get
ting an education at school. Why all 
his letters send me to  the diction
ary.
Second Dad: My boys always
send me to the bank.
Wmc@f@Elnsfracir
Mate 4IIBayfrlp t@ Europe
IndurgBoimd Trip fflSteamship Tare an& *&ay S& Bays? m Europe
An entering student elects that, 
unit he desires. At the end of 
Freshman year, he then definitely 
enters either the Signal or the En
gineer Unit, or quits the R. O. T. 
C. If, at the completion of his two 
basic .years, the student elects to 
continue R. O. T. C., he signs an 
agreement to complete the succeed
ing two years, unless discharged for 
the convenience of the Government, 
and to attend a summer camp of six 
weeks duration. Up to this time the 
( Government has not paid the student 
any money, but has furnished him 
with uniforms, equipment and practi
cally all books and supplies, and, if 
the student has attended a volun
teer basic camp, has paid expenses 
to and from and at camp. But, from 
the commencement of his Junior 
year until the end of his Senior 
year, including the intervening vaca
tion, the student receives commuta
tion of rations at tlie rate of 30 
cents per day, except for six weeks 
camp. While at camp he is furnish
ed all necessities and paid at the 
rate of 21 per month. The total 
payment amounts to about ?210.
The courses pursued by both units 
in common are Infantry Drill and 
Command, and Rifle or Pistol Marks
manship throughout the four years; 
elementary military subjects as Ad
ministration, Supply, Arms and 
Equipment, Hygiene, Courtesy, Disci
pline, Interior Guard Duty, etc., and 
Military History and policy during 
the Freshman year; Minor Tactics in 
Jnior year; and/ Military Law and 
Administration in Senior year.
Subjects taken up by the Signal 
Corps are Map Reading and Sketch
ing, Military Telegrams, Telephones, 
Radio Sets, Codes and Ciphers, Net 
Contsruction and Operation, Mes
sage Centers, Hippology, Field Engi
neering and Signal Corps Duties.
The Engineer Unit pursues tho fol
lowing: Infantry Weapons, Musket
ry and Combat Principles, Map Read
ing and Making. Military Bridges, 
Roads, General Construction, Fortifi
cations (temporary and permanent), 
Engineer Organization and Duties.
Infantry Drill and Command. This 
course includes close and extended 
order drill to include the battalion. 
The advanced students will exercise 
command at drills and receive in
struction in leadership. The aim 
of this course is to teach discipline 
and leadership.
CAPT. H. C. LYONS.
SEND the coupon below for the 16 page book
let telling how he made a 48 day trip to Europe 
at an average cost of $7.13 a day including 34 
days in Europe and round trip steamship fare. 
With it you will receive illustrated literature show
ing third cabin accommodations, sailings and pas
sage rates on United States Lines ships, also the 
folder Whats Going on in Europe in 1924.
To make a European trip possible for students 
and teachers at a minimum cost these United 
States Lines ships will have exclusive third cabin 
accommodations reserved:
S. S. President Harding - June 24
S. S. Republic .... July 3
S. S. Leviathan - - - July 5
For your return similar exclusive reservations have 
been made on westbound ships.
College women are invited particularly to make 
reservations on the S. S. Republic sailing July 3rd 
as special third cabin accommodations are available 
under proper chaperonage. Women will also be 
especially chaperoned on the other ships listed above 
and on the return trips.
Third Class Cabin on United States 
Lines Ships Is Not Steerage
Third class cabins on these ships accommodate 2, 4 or 6 
persons. They are clean, airy and comfortable. The berths 
have soft, sanitary mattresses and clean linen;water and 
other conveniences in each stateroom. The food is wholesome, 
appetizing and plentiful and service of the best. Public rooms 
are large and inviting. Ample deck space is provided for 
games and dances. Daily concerts are a feature of the voyage.
This is your chance to enjoy the cultural and educational 
advantages of Europe at the lowest cost possible in years. 
Dozens of international events are taking place in Europe 
this summer including the Olympic games and the British 
Empire Exhibition.
Campus opepun tmaun
45 BroadwayTel. Whitehall 2800 New York City
UNITED
or Your Local Agent 
Manaainu Operators furSTATES SHIPPINGBOARD
Send the Coupon
INFORMATION BLANK
United States Lii- SBroudwuy. N.Y.
____________SS6EG
Please send me without obligation the bnok* 
lets and literature describing low price tript 
to Europe.
Adirtu____________________________________
