GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
MUSIC HALL 
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9Ifotan
CHAPEL 
LITTLE THEATER 
THURSDAY, 12:50
VOL. XIX Wo. 11CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1924
That's That j TAU BETA PI
REV. JOHN R. EWERS, SPEAKER
AT NEXT CHAPEL SERVICEPLAN UNIQUE
COSMO CLUB TO HOLD DANCE 
DEC. 5, AT THE M. M. REC. HALL
Latest. statistics show that there j 
are only three hundred thousand colI rv t Y~y pv /n T^O T^/^T TF\ Rev. John Ray Ewers, of the East
I I H J IT I l r K End Christian Church, will ho the
e 1 speaker at tho next chapel service,
TTT/^rr n p\-r I /-'v pv p i which will be held in the Little Tliealege students in the United States. H I.H S H N K > ter on Thursday, December 4, at
There are one hundred and ten mil- J.JL A V> AA L-J L/Il A V_/ Av 
lion people of average age of thirty- ____________
five years, which makes about ten ,
percent of college age. And out of MoskovitZ, Harry Smith, 
that eleven million, only three hun
dred thousand are college men and 
women, about three percent. This 
seems to show that only the fortun
ate minority of our promising young
people ever reach the so-called instl- _______
tutions of higher learning.
In Whos Who there are thirty ELKINS HIGHEST SOPH 
thousand names. Assuming these men
Bright and Gardner Are 
Elected to Scholastic Hon
orary ; All Have Fine Records
12:50. This will be the first chapel 
service after the Thanksgiving re
cess.
j The subject of the address is not 
known, but those who have heard Dr. 
Ewers speak can testify that his talk 
will be worth while.
Miss Bessie Weirich of the Music 
Department will render a vocal solo 
and Alfred Johnson will be at the or
gan.
n n n A 71/1 i Tlie Intercollegiate Cosmopolitan
rKUllKA/V\ / I \ I Club will hold their ne&t social at tho l UVUiiiiiii xvyxv MurgarGt MorriBon Recreation Hall,
P1 \T i nnp ]\\ nr V 1 ou irri(la-v> December 5, at 7:30 p. m.
VO r \ A l Nr/Vllll I I Th*' usual stunts and dances willvJ Lsii  rxooLsL Y~yLY a bo hb ; und an aU.round g00d Umo is
__________ ! assured. A short talk on "Poland and
_, T , r-,.  I Its Ways" will bo given in tho way ofA1 Jolson, Florence O Deni- an introduction.
are all college graduates, which they 
are not, that means that only ten per
cent of our college people ever do 
anything worthy of mention^ in a rec
ord of our great achievers. H. L. 
Menchen in his latest book of Preju
dices concludes that only about five 
percent of the names mentioned in 
Wi.os Who are really first rate men.
By simple arithmetic which surely 
is not beyond the reach of our Sci
ence Seniors, only fifteen out of ev
ery hundred thousand young people 
living today will ever amount to any
thing, whether they go to college or 
not.
With all our- vaunted superiority 
over the other peoples of the world, 
only fifteen out of every hundred 
thousand ever do anything worth men
tioning. Terrible, isnt it?
Butt'Cheer up. One hundred years 
from now, no one will ever know 
whether you did anything or not, and 
furthermore, they wont care.
And anyhow, we play Notre Dame 
again next year.
Within less than a month the Mer
ry Christmas season will be upon us 
again. Do your Christmas shopping 
early.
In this most happy time of the year 
when we give for the love of giving 
we go down to a department store 
with a list of all the peonle who gavo 
us presents last year and the value, 
probably, of their presents. Then we
At the Science Assembly last Tues
day the following men were pledged 
to Beta Pi: David Moskovitz, 25, De
partment of Civil Engineering; Har
ry Newton Smith, 25, Commercial En
gineering: John Graham Bright, 25, 
Commercial Engineering; Donald Alker Gardner, Physics. The men were 
chosen on a basis of high scholastic 
attainment, coupled with interest and 
activity in school affairs. Thomas Aathony Elkins was presented with the 
I slide rule given each year by Tau 
Beta Pi to the sophomore with the 
best record in his freshman year.
Moskovitz is Circulation Manager 
of the Carnpgie Tartan and chairman 
of the Social Committee of the student, 
chapter, American Society of Civil 
-Engineers.
Harry 'Smith is a member of Beta 
Theta Pi, and Druids. He is also 
section leader of the Senior Commer
cials, and last spring was captain o 
the tennis team.
Jack Bright is a member of Delta 
Upsilon and Theta Tau. He is secre
tary of the Senior Commercials and 
president of the Interfraternity Basbelball League. For tho past three 
years, he has run on the cross-coun
try team.
Don Gardner is a member of Woodlawn Club, Druids, Delta Skull, and 
Dragons. He is also president of the 
Science Senate, president of the 
Science Triangle Club, and editor-inGUILD CARNIVAL TO
shawn and Rachminoff Are , Th0 dub yrtii lmvo fracture j taken tor The Thistle and Tho Owl 
- Schroder to I ml December 6. Members aro re-Scheduled  
Discuss Success
FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME 
KEEP SLATE CLEAN AS PLAID 
TRIPS IN GREAT GAME 40 TO 19
Y. W. C. A. MEETING TO BOOST
THE CARNEGIE TECH GUILD
Tho next mooting of tho Y. W. C. 
. , . . . . . . . ,, A. will bo held In the Margaret Mor-quested to got together In trout ot he r,gon RocroaUon Ha, on Wednesday
THIS IS ALL BUNK
Arts building, at 1:30 p. m., on that 
dato In case of rain, tho picture will 
t bo taken in the Carnogie union.
A most unique and attractive pronp LTCT n f'Wl rvCf'' 1^1 Sram be ofterred to the studentsDC ntLU Ul\ DcL. 1J at the General xVssembly of Decem
ber 9th. Through the untiring efforts
M. M. Building is Chosen as 
Scene of Christmas Fes
tivities
WINNING INFIRMARY 
PLAN IS EXHIBITED
choose carefully in order that our | chief of the Puppet.
gifts will not exceed tho value re
ceived. And if, by any chance, one 
neglects us this year, we hate him 
forever.
The well-known and justly famous 
Christmas spirit is no more. In its 
place we have red eye liquor and syn
thetic gin.
A white Christmas is a thing of 
the past. Now we have rain anrl fog 
which clogs your voice and dirties 
your shirts.
The mistletoe is just about as necossary in kissing a girl as the Carnngie Tfrtnn is in spreading school 
hews. We try to make ourselves be
lie v we are back in Merrie England 
with the platters of mutton and the 
mugs of ale when in reality all we 
have is some carved cow and Italian 
wine.
But then, whats the use of being 
honest with ourselves? We arent to 
anyone else.
Hurrah for Christmas. It gives us 
a vacation in which to make up our 
hackwork, which we dont do, and 
also t?me to forget everything we ever 
learned, which we do.
Likewise it gives us an opportunity 
to get out with that little girl around 
the corner whom w met at the donee 
last summer, and h-d just what kind 
of an egg she happens to be.
Whoa, we seem to be getting pes
simistic, or cynical or something.
Merry Christmas.
The principal feature or the assem
bly was a talk by M. E. Skinner, com
mercial manager of the Duquesne
miss the 
Christmas 
The merit
Nobody can afford to 
Margaret Morrison Guild 
Carnival on December 12. 
of the cause itself is sufficient to in
sure a large attendance, and the sur
prises and variety of the program will 
provide those who go with the best 
time of their lives.
The Margaret Morrison Building is 
to be the scene of the festivities. The 
officers of the Guild who are working 
on the plans assure us that no one is 
too young or too old to have a wonder
ful time at their party. The program 
will begin at 8:30 with a Christmas 
pageant by the Drama Department 
and the Girls Musical Clubs. The 
period of the pageant is the Sixteenth 
Century, and the decorations will bo 
carried out in keeping with that time. 
At 0:30 dancing will begin to the 
music of the Collegiate Imps. There 
will be bridge tables for those who 
care to play, and the Great Unknown 
will tell fortunes. Other less pre
tentious plans will add pleasure to 
the evening.
The tags that are now being sold 
will be accepted as part of the admis
sion fee. The tags are being sold for 
50 cents, and admission to tho Carof O. B. Newman, such far famed ontertainers as A1 Jolson, Florence O* j Sketches Placed On Exhibit 
Denisliawn and Rachmininoff havo
been secured and the ronowned avia
tor Schroder has accepted tho rolo 
of principal speaker of the day.
Mr. Schroder has been offered this 
honor largely because of tho demanda 
of Dr. Rittman, who considers him
in Hall of Central Building; 
Zimmer Winner
T . v, II  , - nival will be 25 cents, in addition. TheLight Company. He .8 a member or dmla8|on for Ulose wltllout tnga
(Continued on Page Four.)
Arts Ball Committees 
Chosen By Chairman
One Arabian Night May Be 
Selected For Period
The Arts Ball this year is to be 
One Arabian Nieht. While the idea is 
not new. it is certainly very appropri
ate. There are enough shieks and 
shiekesses in the school to make any
thin? Arabian a success, to say noth
ing of an Arabian night.
Our personal opinion that if they 
were to appoint a Caliph, or Sultan 
or whatever they have from Science 
School things would go much better.
Cave man stuff always goes well, 
and nothins: would eco farther to cap
tivate the heart of some little Arabi
an girl than the attention of some big, 
strong, husky, virile specimen of Am
erican manhood in a red and black 
ch^r-k shirt, and high boots.
We wonder who is going to tell 
the stories.
The Thief of Bagdad should cer
tainly be present with a smile and, a 
towel aro- id his waist. Hell have the 
towel abound his;, head when he gets 
up in the norning. 
Ths will be a bone dry party, of.: inn mth Ano nt a
course, to conform with the desert ENGLISH /YlINORj 1 LAN
idea. Oh my yes!
Our only objection to Arts Ralls j 
in general is that theyre too darn i
elusive. But then thats their charm, j This year the -members of the 
If everyone didn't want to get in, | English Minor and Library Departthere would be no fun in saying that | ments in Margaret Morrison are oryou were there. I ganizing to form a separate departmejltaj Heretofore both depart-BOWMAN ADDRESSES ments have belondeg to the Secre* 
LOCAL S.I.E. CHAPTER  The new organization is to be
At the assembly of the College oC 
Arts last Tuesday, tho members of 
the various sub-comimttees were ap
pointed and an important discussion 
on the period to be chosen took place. 
A vote was taken and the majority 
favored reproducing "One Arabian 
Night. Most of the committeemen 
were pleased with the selection by the 
students because of the endless jjossIbilities it affords for design, decora
tion, lighting, costume and entertain
ment. The play, which will bo writ
ten, may present a fantasy on the 
forty thieves of Bagdad, the princes 
and princesses of magic Arabia, tho 
witchcraft and lure of tho eastern 
cults and religions, or any other 
theme appropriate to the subject.
The names of the chairmen and the 
members of the committees have been 
announced as follows:
General chairman, V. S'. Mollencaur; 
assistant chairman, E. T. Wheeler; 
treasurer, J. Arthur Ropp; assistant 
treasurer, Robt. Shreve; secretary, 
Edwin Eberman.
DesignRenato Rutuli, chairman; 
Stanley Stark, Margaret Weiland, Sid
ney Smith.
Execution of DecorationCurtis Col
vin, Chairman; Lair, John Carr, 
Coyle. Dorothy Diamond. Evelyn Eyman, John Gilbert, J. Denton Hogan. 
R. L. Jones, Jack Frost, R. L. Lepper, 
Dessa Lazich, Russ, Dorothy Schmalhorst, Marian Truesdale, Genevieve 
Webster, W. Witmer.
Construction - Wm. B. Simboli, 
chairman; Ray Winters, Glover, But
ler, Myron Goodwin, Max Bastian. 
James Paul, Russel Bullinger, James 
Tierney, McMillen, Six, Garmon.
LightingLloyd Yoder, chairman;
(Continued on Page Four.)
be 75 cents 01* $1.50 per couple,
Grace Munhall, 25, is at the head 
of tho Guild this year, and is in 
charge of the Carnival plans. Prof. 
Estelle Bonnell is the faculty advisor. 
The other ofllcers are Florence Jones, 
2G, vice president; Rebecca Pontius, 
2G, secretary, and Charlotte Drake, 
26, treasurer. There is also a board, 
consisting of three members each 
from Margaret, Morrison and Fine 
Arts College. There are a numbor of 
(Continued on Page Two.
Tho plans for tho Mens Infirmary, 
having materialized moro quickly 
then could bo hoped for, have been 
placed 011 exhibit I11 tho hall of tho 
Central Building.
Of tho several sketches exhibited, 
ranging from simple to 'ornate, C. P. 
Zimmers won tho approval of tho In
firmary committee, owing to its 
simplicityresulting in low construc
tion cost: its pleasing appearance 
and Its adaptability for hospital pur
poses.
Mr. Zimmers' winning slcotch uoplcts a low two-story stone and brick 
building, sot back into the ground 
slope, between tho mens dormitories, 
to tho level of the second story at tho 
roar of tho building; while tho front 
exposes tho full two stories over
hung by a low slato roof. Tlio lowor
Editors Note: This fantasy has * 
come in response to tho clamor- 5*
:* ings of many of the students for -V 
*:? more interesting assembly pro- v 
:* grams. Hence vfe are submitting *>
-I- what wo would consider an ideal * 
program and are purposely avoid- *:* 
v ing all long speeches, Tau Bet y 
elections and prize presentations. *
as one of the foremost expononts of 
Commercial Engineering. Mr. Schro
ders suhlect will deal with How to 
Rise Raphliy in tho World, and will
bo basod about his own experience I story, of stone, is broken only by a 
of climbing to a height ol soveirmiles massive arched stono doorway and 
in an open plane and then falling similar windows, all in harmony with 
helplessly from lack of air. Never, the surrounding buildings, 
he states embark upon any venture j Tho basement has a spacioqs waitwithout a plentiful supply of air, at jng parlor for tho convenience of 
a high temperature preferably. This, 
it is said, is the determining factor 
of all business success and will bo 
thoroughly strosaed though not elab
orated upon toomuch slnco tho dis
cussion will bo confined to five min
utes. _ .
A1 Jolson will stago soveral now 
skits, one a travosty upon Sarah 
Bernhardts bedroom scene in Othel
lo, and tho other, one of his Inimita
ble renditions of How Ah Wish Ah 
Cud Soo Mali 01 Ma Way Daun in 
the Cano Fell's of Loulsla-na. In(Continued on Pago Two.J
December 3, at 1 p. m. This mooting 
will bo for the purpose of boosting 
tho Carnegie Tech Guild.
The functions and purpose of the 
Guild will be explained by Miss Bon
nell, of tho Social Work Department 
of Margaret Morrison, and Grace Mun
hall, president of the Guild. With two 
such interesting speakers tlio meet
ing is sure to be a great success.
Tho Y. W. C. A. is taking aiv active 
part in tho Guild Carnival this year, 
so all the girls aro urged to bo pres
ent at this meeting.
JUNIORS WILL HOLD 
PRO/W AT WM. PENN
Orchestra Committee Con
sidering Ted Weems and 
Waring's Pennsylvanians
Tlio biggest, bost and finest of any 
social function yot given by a group 
of Carnegie students will bo hold at 
tlio William Ponn I-Iotol on tho evonlng of January 30. Wo aro, of course, 
spoaking of tho Junior Prom; and If 
tho onthuslasm ot tho commlttoo Is 
any crltorlon of tho buccosb of the 
Prom, It Is slated to bo tho host yot..'
Following tho Idoa of our Math. De
partment that 0110 should prove all 
Ills statements, wo elt;o, along with 
tho results so far obtained, tho tiroWonder Team is Acclaimed 
By Majority of Experts as 
Greatest in Country While 
Carnegie is Gamest Eleven
BEEDE, KRISTOF SCORE
Graphica Club in Need 
Of Student Bodys Aid
Xmas Card Campaign Runs 
Into Snag in Last Drive
TO "ORGANIZE IN M. M.
Dr. Day to Lecture 
On Volcanic Activity
Will Give Interesting Talk in 
Union This Evening
A public lecture of unusually pop
ular interest will be given by Dr. 
Arthur L. Day, of tho Carnoglo Insti
tute of Washington, D. C. tonight In 
tho Union when I10 will describe 
Some Causes of Volcanic Activity. 
It Is expected that the talk will bo
The Graphica Christmas Card Cam
paign, now turning the final curve be
fore heading into the home stretch, 
hit a strong headwind during the last 
week, and nearly went down for the 
count Only the extreme activity of 
the executive committee saved the 
campaign from a disastrous finish.
It seems that the student body has 
not given the Graphica the support re
ceived in former yearsthe support 
that it most certainly deserves. The 
boys who work In this campaign have 
always been ready and wj'ling to 
help all student organizations on the 
campus by doing the printing which 
they needed, gratis. This work has 
cost the boys many of their leisure 
hours.
It is quite certain that fully 50 per 
cent of the student body send out six 
or more Christmas cards. If th" do 
not, they should. Nowhere will these 
students find as beautiful anu varied 
a selection of cards, with envelopes 
furnished, imprinted with the pur
chasers name free of charge, at 
prices that can compare with the 
Graphica prices, which range from 
$1.00 to $1.25 per dozen. The quality 
of the cards is vouchsafed by the 
fact that a large percent of the Car
negie faculty have put in orders. /~'Tir\TCT?\/i rv niinnrT rtI
It is only right that the student j CHRISTM AS PUPPET ON
body be warned of what they may ex-1 CATE DTCADC rj r j Tf\ A p/
pect during the ensuing week. The] oALL urrUKt nULlL)/\lJ
sales (1manager of the campaign is gobased on studios mado partly in tho 1 boon hold soon after the closo of tho 
field and partly in the laboratory. | football soason. This yoar, howovor, 
Although tho lecture is Included In because of tho difficulties in arrang* 
tho series arranged by Dr. Baker for j a satisfactory date, it has been
guests, a Btorago and vogotablo col- loss manner In which tho various comlni^, a kitchen and a laundry. At tho mlttees aro working. To begin with,
contor, roar, a stairway loads into tlio consent of Deans Brown and Tarlargo second llridr. hall, which runs 1 , ,, , . * ,  1r *. 1 V boll was secured 11 ordor that thothe ontlro longth of tho building. A
woll'iippolntod nttondnnt'H oilliio, u ! Pl'om mlht b 1101,1 Unvn' TU(m bath nnd u tmpply eldflot, with tlio an'ungomonle or tlio t<imcloun 
(|loth(!H Hhutn to tho lftundryi avo con-1 hullroom of tho William ltmn were 
trolly loontod near tho ntnlrwny, tho I completed. Tho commlttoo hi now onroinnlnlnif opneo holK ..........................ill' ln oourhiK tho haul. ortfMtrn
obtainable, tho most pnlutablo suppor monu, tho most novol and unlquo 
favors, and tho most beautiful decor
ations.
Promlnont among tho list ol' nation
ally famous orchestras which tho com
mittee Is considering aro: Tod
Woom's Orchestra, Waring's Pennsyl
vanians, and tho Islmm Jones aggre
gation. A Garber-Davls orchestra Is 
also under consideration.
Tho committee on favors rofusos 
to impart any Information as to tho 
typo and nature of this yours tokens. 
Thoy nssuro something absolutely 
and positively new and original. Tho 
supper committee likewise promises 
a menu oxcolllng all offerings of pre
vious years,
Tho Prom commlttoo will moot 
again sometlmo during this wook,and 
It Is anticipated that after tho moot
ing moro nows of tho biggest, host 
and tho flnost function In tho history 
of Carnoglo (wo aro compelled to 
stato It again) will bo released.
into eight or ton woll llghtod and 
voritlldiod bedrooms.
Thoro woro, howovor, oquully wellplanned sketches oxhlbltod by Messrs, 
'P. E. Tlllitson, W. T. ICoppos, II. W. 
Damon, T. D. Crowgory and II. L. 
Lynch, but tho buildings lacked the 
ossontlal simplicity so desirable for 
a small hospital.
Varsity Clan Banquet 
Scheduled in January
Will Be Delayed Closing of 
Football Season
The Varsity, Clan Banquet will take 
place during tho latter part of Janu
ary. In former years this banquet has
Battling from start to finish for 
every yard, at times outplaying and 
nearly always outgaming thoir farfamed opponents, tho red-jorseyed 
warriors of the Plaid bowed to Notro 
Dames superlative team Saturday ln 
one of the best contests of tho year. 
Score 40-19. Before a crowd of some 
33,000 peoplo Carnegie Tech proved 
conclusively that the Scotch can fight 
fully as hard as the Irish, and again 
demonstrated the wonderful Carnegie 
spirit that enables a team to repulse 
an irresistible attack and make touch
downs where scoring is impossible.
The fact that they lost is of littlo 
consequence In the face of tho glory 
they gained. For two quarters, dur
ing tho entire first half, a Carnogie 
team without any groat reputation ac
tually played on oven terms a team 
acclalmod throughout tho breadth of 
the land as the greatest team in his
tory nnd easily the best olevon of tho 
year. The Fighting Irish, with tho fa
mous four horsemen" performing for 
tho last tlmo, had their comeback in 
tho last half as was their duo, but 
tho Tartans glorious stand will not 
Boon bo forgotton, for hevor woro tho 
Irishmen able to oase up, and for 
tho most part Knuto Tlockne's first 
team was hard prossod to gain at all.
Today Carnoglo Is resting easy, hor 
placo In the nthlotle world assured, 
for Captain Newmans valient band 
of horoos In that gamo scorod throe 
touchdowns for a total of nineteen 
points against' the wonder team," 
something yet to bo aehlovod by any 
other team in the country. Among 
thoso who have tried and failed this 
year aro. Army, PrIncoton, Georgia^ 
Tech, Northwestern, und Nebraska. 
Such an accomplishment goes a long 
way toward minimizing thoso forty 
Irish points.
Tho contest Itself was satisfying to 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
the special benefit of Pittsburgh Dis
trict scientists and engineers, a largo 
number of men and women who are 
not particularly Ideritfilsd with scien
tific pursuits is expected to hear Dr. 
Day.
The Washington scientist, who has 
been director of the GeographicalLaboratory at the Carnegie Institu
tion since 1907 is widely known as a 
physicist and an authority on vol 
canism. He is a graduate of Yale, 
receiving his A. B. degree in 1892 and 
his Ph. D. degree in 1894. For six 
vears prior to his connection with the 
Carnegie Institution, Dr. Day served 
as physical geologist with the U. S. 
Geological Survey.
The lecture, which will be illustrat
ed with colored lantern slides, will be 
given at 8:30 in the Union. No ad
mission tickets will be required to 
attend.
DE MOLAYS NIGHT WED., DEC. 3, 
ALL ARE URGED TO ATTEND
The De Molays of Carnegie have ordoomed advisable to wait until after] 
th< Christmas holidays for tho ac-1 
caslon. !
The Varsity Clan Banquet Is a fit- ganifled what promlsos to bo one of 
ting climax to tho football season, tho finest clubs on tho campus. Thoy 
Wally t Leffen will dh:closo tho facts held their first mooting on Thursday 
of the season for tho first time, j evening, November 20, in tho Y. M. 
Wally's talk is always looked forward c. A. club room, Industry building, 
to, since it is one of his policies never The program was very attractive, conto disclose any football Information sisting of interesting talks by Dean 
while the season is in progress. After 
the last game, ho is as ready to talk 
ias the next one
It is at this time that the football 
captain for the coming year is elected.
For weeks before tho election, there 
is much discussion as to who should 
lead our team for the next year. The
outcome of this election is eagerly 
awaited by the student body.
Although detailed arrangements for 
i Continued on Page Four.)
Juniors Banquet in 
Hotel Chatham Dec. 12
Banquet Committee Plans 
Unique Entertainment
Morris, "Dad Starkey of Lincoln 
chapter, "Dad Rankin and tho presi
dent of tho Citmas Club, Mr. Magoo.
The following officers were elected:
President, E. R. Jones, vice presi
dent, J. T. Chldester; secretary, C. L.
Manrow; treasurer, Sherman.
All De Molays on the campus are J Pete Seaman, Chuck Basset, Bill SimLufit-mlnuto information from tho 
Junior Banquet Committee gives us 
the definite nows that tho stage Is all 
set for a wook from Friday night at 
tho Chatham Hotel, and several hun
dred hungry uppor-clussrnon will ho 
watching tho curtain go up with a 
roll.
Tho commlttoo Is pleased to say 
that this year thoro will he no skimp
ing of entortalnmont or dinner, and If 
tho tickets soil fast this wook, tho 
Juniors aro going to witness a mid
night performance of tho Folllos 
Borgoro, as well as sit down to such 
a sumptuous Toast that Aesculapius 
will turn ovor in his well-deserved 
ashes.
Ye lots may happen ln the se
cluded roof garden of a Penn avonue 
hotel, and evory Carnegie Junior 
wants to bo there and get In on every
thing at such a gala occasion.
So far, the guest list Includes Profs. 
Beebo and Kirkpatrick and,(if this is 
any criterion of tho entire list of 
guests, there will be no wet blankets 
at the party
Buy your tickets today from any 
member of the general committee. 
This includes F. W. Cook, chairman;
cordially Invited to attend tho next 
meeting on Wednesday evening, De
cember 3, at 7:30 p. m., in the Y. M. 
C. A. club room.
ing to call the Graphica Club into 
sions at lunch and dinner time for 
three dp.ysbut he is not going to
LaBt Thursday while you counted 
your blessings one by one, and offered 
thanks for them, did you rememberfeed them. At the end of this time ! t0 be thnkt| rr the Breatr.,t hloHhe will turn the campaigners loose, in jng. oj> ^em all? You know what that
the anger which starvation alone can 
cause, to sell Christmas cards. Woe 
unto all who refuse to purchase. The 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
blessing Iscertainlythe Christmas 
Puppet! L*fe, Liberty, and the Pur 
suit of Happiness are all fine, so are 
three hundred P. Qs at mid-semester, 
but even these would be but sorry 
substitutes for Puppet.
We are telling you now that the 
Christmas Puppet will bo mighty good
called The Scribblers, though its Y TO GIVE VARIED PROGRAM
---------------------- ehief purpose is more social than AT SMOKER SATURDAY NIGHT
On Tuesday evening, November 25, \ literary. The club aims to promote j -------------
the S. I. E. held ther first meeting j friendlinoss among the members of j A few of the events on the program , ho you will have the pleasure of look
of the year. It was well attended and the two departments, which have so i for the "Y stag, Saturday, Decem-1 ing forward to its appearance, as well 
the utmost interest was shown j much more in common than they do! ber 6, are to bo: Two mystic perform-! as the pleasure of reading It. After 
throughout the lecture. j with the Secretarials. j ances (Thurston has nothing on these | that, of course, will come the pleasure
T-iesident McGee of the S. 1. E. j The officers have been elected for master magicians): a whole orchestra j of pi'llinK Punnet jokes on the unsitHcnlled f he meeting and introduced j the coming year. They are: Presi- j *n one piece; a skit from the drama necting homo-folks. Its surprislim
Howard D. Bowman the West-Virgin- dent, Carol Foight; secretary, Alice | department; some unique combats; I how many kinds of pleasure a quarter 
ia nT^/O R^nresentat-ive -of the Amer-I Moore; and social chairman, Barbara I several reels of comedies, and many! will buy.
ican Radintor company, wLj was ac-'White. Alice Moore is to write the I more humorous stunts. i The Christmas Pnnet will be out
comuanipd bv E. H. Eggleston of the i constitution, which will be ready soon. I A number of prominent men on the) lust before tl i hol'd^vs. If you dont 
Pittsburgh Branch. Members of the club anticipate many | campus will be present. All are in-i have one of those little trre^n ticket
Mr. Bowman Ik a 1923 eradnafe it*; r-oV>il times this winter, and expect the vited to come. The program starts at! write vo"r letter to Snntn Claus oar'- 
Machinery Production of Carnegie | Scribblers' soon to be the livest or-! 8 'clock, and lasts until 12. Remem-1 ier than usual, ?nd apk him to save 
(Continued on Page Two. j ganization cn the campus. (ber to keep Saturday evening open. I you a copy of the Puppet.
Bake Sale to Be Held By M. M. Class 
At Pittsburgh Market Before Xmas
The following committee has been 
appointed for the third annual Balco 
Sale to be held by the M. M. ?26-class 
at the Pittsburgh Market sometime 
before Christmas.
Mary Hill, General Chairman; Buy
ing and Baking, Mary Dale, Chairman, 
Alice Espe, Elizabeth Schwartz, Rue 
Swanson, Selling, Margaret Calvert, 
Chairman, Mabel McKee MaryQulek, 
Elsie Sohlmmel: Transportation, Har
riet Merwin chairman, Kash Galla* 
gor, Mary Gleason; Advertising, Mar
tha Eggers, chairman, Charlotte Durlo, Alice Moore.
The M. M. 2(1 class has held a Hake 
Salo for tho last two years and man
aged to clear more than $100,00 a: 
each of them. The money was turned 
Into a fund which was used for seholarshins. The first year a scholarship 
of 380 00 was g!'on: the second year 
a scholarship of $100.00 was iriven.
The commuters will donnte cakes, 
cookies, pies or candy. The dormi
tory girls who are unable to bake 
things themselves will contribute a 
small sum which will be turned Into 
a general fund and used to ?my ma
terials from which the Home Ec, girls 
will bake all manner of dollcacles ln 
the M. M. kitchens.
The fact that the sale roaches new 
heights each succeeding yoar Is ample 
proof that tho cakes, cookies, ploij 
and candy offered aro products of 
skilled cooks. It Is with *ho belief 
that tho third sale will bo tho most 
succcHsf"! that the M. M. 2(5 class are 
preparing to handle vast throngs of 
prospective purchasers.
in order that Carnegie students may 
remember to spread tho nows far and 
wide, tho committee promises to re
fresh the memories of the Tartan
This year it is thought thot with readers troni week to week.
'ho experience cralned In buying and 
Kakfntr during the previous two years 
t.h^ Pake f-ah; will be even more suc
cessful.
The camio for which tho sales are 
held is a most worthy one, and the 
class deserves the aid of the students 
as well as that of tho marketers.
boi, Al Thomas and Pat Patterson.
SALE OF THISTLES TWO 
WEEKS AFTER HOLIDAYS
The campaign managers for the 
1924-25 Thistlo have decided that the 
second and final sales campaign will 
begin the second woek after tho 
Christmas Holidays. The results of 
tho first campaign wero rather dis
appointing, but It is expected that all 
the students will buy their Thistles 
during tho next campaign, when they 
realize that it will bo their last^ 
portunity to get. a copy. \
There will bo no extra Thistles ' 
printed this year, honoo the necessity 
of getting In your order during tho 
post-holiday campaign.
Last weeks Tartan gave as com
plete a description of tho Thistle as 
's available at tho present. One somo* 
what drastic.,departure from tho pol
icy of former years Is tho omission of 
pictures of Pledges from the Frater
nity groups. In the past, considerable 
embarrassment and Inconvenience lias 
been occasioned by various Frater
nities requesting after the pictures 
had been made up, that the photo
graphs of men who t'ad withdrawn 
from school he kept ou. of their group. 
For this raat'on it has been decided 
that photographs of active memders 
only wJll be published this year.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. DECEMBER 2. 1924
S Carnai! jfotan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postoffice uf Pittsburgh as second-classmatter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
F. D. ROSSINI A. E. IvROGHE. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson R. R. SitzlerD. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS.........................................................................................Sclienley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ..............................................................................................
V. B. SMITH..................................................................................................
...Sclienley 9070 
..Franklin 5547-.I
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. AT. GOSS......................................................................-...............................Sclienley 91S0
REPORTERS
R. L. Lepper, AI. Hollinshead, AI. Dutt, Rosemary AIcCambridge, E. Tallmadge, 
AI. Tucker, R. Hand, C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRIST-OFF ........................................................................................
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Alargaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams 
William Bernardi.
D. AI. Davidson,
BUSINESS MANAGER
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER ............................................................................................
CIRCULATION MANAGER
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Buerle, J. P. 
Strizak. Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, G. H. Carl, B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. 
Kandell. .
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of 
Alanaging Editor for the make up.
this paper; the
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
post office before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12-30- 
1:20.
ACCEPTING THE INEVITABLE
Last Saturday the hopes of many were again shattered, yet on 
no occasion lias Carnegie ever slione so "brilliantly before. Matched 
against the greatest 'scoring machine in the country, Carnegie dis
played such flashes of power that not only was the Notre Dame goal 
crossed thrice, but the best efforts of our opponents first team were 
requisitioned during the greater part of the game to hold the Plaid 
eleven in cheek.
The contest was lost but we are satisfied. Our honor has been 
upheld beyond'all expectations and since we had to lose, we are glad 
that it was Notre Dame, rather than any other team we bowed be
fore. We congratulate our gallant opponents and humbly worship 
our own valiant gridders.
OUR CAMPUS
As is usual when anyone assumes sufficient initiative to attempt 
to direct an undertaking that involves more than just himself, a con 
siderable multitude, whether interested or not. immediately feels 
called upon to clamor forth and predict disaster. The present ex
ample of such a situation involves the reconstruction of the old 
Pield Gym. ,
Though admittedly a considerable sum has been expended upon 
this venture, yet how many of the foremost critics arc really cogniz
ant with the reasons that prompted the planning oif the Woodlawn 
Inn? From a strictly utilarian viewpoint we do not believe that this 
expenditure is warranted, indeed, for one quarter of the sum appro
priated, an adequate lunchroom could have been prepared. This is 
the same viewpoint that was held by the designers of the mens dor
mitories and the new gym. Such vision would make a mere publicity 
stunt of Campus Week and point with pride to the severe simplicity 
of Science School and Mellon Annex. But this is not the simplicity 
that made the Parthenon one of the greatest achievements of Greek 
art.
Heretofore Carnegie has not sympathized with beauty and com
fort. When a building was completed ivy was immediately planted 
about its walls in effort to soften the harshness of their lines. Car
negie buildings are impressive but even the grandeur of the Arts 
Building is cold and lacks the friendly tone so desirable in col lege 
buildings.
A student given the least opportunity decorates his room and 
takes pride in the furnishings of his fraternity. He seeks beauty and 
comfort. This desire has finally been recognized and is taking shape 
in the Woodlawn Inn. There is no place where a pleasant environ
ment is more appreciated than at the dinner table nor is there any
thing the absence of which a student misses quite as much. For this 
reason we not only highly commend the fine purpose of the present 
construction Jmt wish that such principles. might be more Avidely 
applied about the campus.
OUR FLAG
As a result of the last two games, remarks have emanated from 
a number of sources critcising the behavior of the spectators as the 
flag passed the stands. Despite the'reverence due to the national em
blem, not one of the thousands present was noticed observing the 
courtesy of rising and removing his hat as the colors passed.
This conduct is not due, we are convinced, to any lack of re
spect .on..the part of the students or visitors present, but rather to 
their- uncertainty as to exactly what is expected of them. We have 
never observed any hesitation on the part of the rooters when the 
Alma Mater is played nor have we ever failed to see the National 
Anthem properly honored.
Why^cannot this same.courtesy be accorded to the colors? The 
responsibility of setting a proper example devolves upon the students 
'and will surely be instantly observed by all in attendance. Cannot 
the student body, rise the next time the flag passes by and thus not 
only will the flag receive the reverence that is its due, but Carnegie 
students will also rise higher in the esteem of their fellow country
men.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2
LectureDr. A. L. Dav........................................... 8 '30 P M
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3 AND 4 '
PlayA Pair of Spectacles...........................8:30 1. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 5
DanceCosmo Club ...................................................... Union
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 12
Junior Banquet........................................................6:00 P. M., Chatham Hotel
____________________SATURDAY, DECEMBER 13
BHARAT ASSOCIATION 
HOLDS ANNUAL SOCIAL
The Bharat Association, organized 
by the Hindu students in Pittsburgh, 
will entertain their members and 
friends at a social, to be held at the 
Bureau of Mines on Thursday, Decem
ber 4, at 8 p. m.
Air. Spear, of the Spear Furniture 
Company, who recently came from 
India,, after an extensive tour through 
all parts of the country, will speak on 
India as She Is Today. The talk 
will be fully illustrated with multiI colored lantern slides of views and 
I things from the inimitable Taj Mahal, 
one of the seven wonders of the 
| world, to the lowliest peasants hut.
This years social will be the best 
that was ever held, if the enthusiasm 
I of the officers is a criterion of quality. 
Vocal and instrumental solos, dancing 
in costumes are only minor features 
in the program.
Anybody who is interested to know 
something about this far-away land, 
this so-called land of mysticism, is re 
quested to come and see for himself 
the things as they are It is some
thing quite new. something that is 
really too good to be missed.
Two New Plays to 
Be Given in Theater
THE CRITIC
Thanks to Mr. Payne and Mrs. 
Fisk; we have been having quite a 
Sheridan week. And God knows we 
needed it, we technical students who 
are so sure the world began in 1900 
at the earliest. One hopes we all had 
the grace to mingle a little humility 
with our appreciation of the delicate, 
humane mirth of "The Rivals and 
the rich satirical burlesque of "The 
Critic. For; left to ourselves, we 
should never have understood them. 
What Mrs. Fisk and her company did 
for The Rivals, Mr. Payne did for 
The Critic: he interpreted and 
vitalized it in the very spirit of Sheri
dan and the Eighteenth Century hu
manism. It is not often that one man 
combines, as does Mr. Payne; dis
tinguished excellence both as a schol
ar and as a producer. One wonders if 
the audience understood how rare is 
such a production as his "Critic. 
Certainly, whether they understood or 
not, they enjoyed themselves hugely. 
Night after night the laughter rose 
crescendo, became hysterical, and
passed over into the gasps and
crackles of people who have literally 
laughed until it hurts.
Cast, scenery and costumes repre
sented weeks of careful Work. Every 
detail was perfect Eighteenth Cen
tury, from the polished Breakfast 
Room of the first act to the absurd 
sea fight and pageant at the end. And 
through it all, Mr. Puff, eager, naieve, 
so human that he belonged in all cen
turies equally. Next to Mr. Payne, wo 
have tp thank Harry Mervis for the 
success of the production. His vi
tality and spontaniety. his careful sus
taining of the character throughout 
what must have been a very exhaust
ing part, and most of all, his own 
delicate and genial humor, made his 
Puff a thing to be remembered.
The length of the casttwentynine people, counting four doubles 
forbids detailed comment on each, al
though oven the bits were done with 
sufficient; individuality to deserve 
mention. Both Tilburinas were quite 
priceless Miss Sowersby seemed to 
emphasize the coquettish actress, who 
flirts with Dangle, and will have stage 
center, and Miss Walker sank herself 
more fully in the play within the play, 
illustrating with Sheridans own 
satire the old school of emotional act
ing. The two Confidantes were a Jap, 
slightly differentas someone ob
served, Miss Eckhardt was stupidlysilly and Miss Schellhase was worried-silly. Both girls deserve especial 
credit for building a really important 
port on very slight lines, by sheer 
force of humorous acting. Indeed, 
there was much of that, in the play. 
William Martin regularly reduced the 
house to hysterics by the portentidus 
grunts with which he dolivered Sir 
Walters meager lines, while he and 
John Conway alternately took the 
scene away from each other with 
clever business. Verner Halden and 
Hardie Albright did excellent work in 
carrying the atmosphere of the first 
act throughout the play, supporting 
Harry Mervis and creating the frame
work for the burlesque. Joseph Gessner made the most of Don Whiskerandos, especially in that astounding 
duel with Charlie Schlesinger. Ells
worth Perrin was delightful as the 
burlesque stage manager. Nor shall 
we soon forget Maury Tuckermanns 
sonorous leading of the prayer, O 
Mighty Mars". Horbert Polesie and 
Bob Aldordyce, alternating as the 
Constable and Governor, got laughs 
on their make-ups alone, even before 
they spoke their lines. And even 
such bits as the two nieces and the 
Justices Son (Virginia Williams, 
Caroline Marsh and Leon Ford) were 
developed into highly Individualized 
pieces of comedy acting.
ALLENE GREGORY.
BOWMAN ADDRESSES
LOCAL S. I. E. CHAPTER
(Continued From Page One.) 
Tech. After graduation he established 
himself with the American . Radiator 
company; Pittsburgh branch, and for 
four months took a training, course 
designed by Dr. W. W. Charters of 
the Retail Training Bureau.
During the sequence of the evening, 
Mr. Bowman favorably spoke of the 
shop inspection trips of the Machin
ery Production Course and consider
ed it very advantageous in his early 
training course with the American 
Radiator company. If was' his edu
cation at Carnegie'Tech that account
ed for his knowledge of shop pro
cesses and shop language that is es
sential in his present work. One of 
the most interesting parts of the lec-' 
ture was the moving pictures, illus
trating the designs, testing and con
struction of American radiators. 
Among these were pictures of core 
making, the cleaning of castings, the 
machinery of connections and mal
leable nipples. Before concluding Mr. 
Bowman answered many apt ques
tions regarding the various process
es of the several products of tjie Am
erican Radiator company. He also 
gave many helpful suggestions on the 
art of home heating and tha care of 
pots in furnaces.
The lecture furnished valuable in
formation to those who-were present 
and the S. I. E. is very thankful that 
they were able, to secure Air. Bow
man. The S. I. E. is making good 
progress and increasing interest is 
being shown. These lectures are val
uable to the student for it connects 
the- students college world with that 
of the industrial.
GUILD CARNIVAL TO
BE HELD ON DEC. 12
(Continued From Page One) 
sub-committees for the Carnival, un
der the members of the board.
All the officers are working hard to 
make the Carnival a success. No Car
negie student should miss' this jolly 
oarty. Make your date early, so you 
may take your best girl and thorough
ly enjoy it.
'A Pair of Spectacles" Will 
Be Given Wed. Evening
The next production of the De
partment of Drama, "A Pair of Spec
tacles, a play by Sidney Grundy, 
translated from the French, will be 
presented tomorrow and Thursday 
evenings at. the Little Theater. The 
play, which takes place in the latter 
part of the Nineteenth Century, con
cerns a kind-hearted man who is 
turned into a cynical and suspecting 
individual through a confidence game 
in which a pair of spectacles takes a 
prominent part. The cast is made up 
of Mable Eichler, Betsey Lindsey, 
Elizabeth Sowersby, Philip Rhoades 
Thorne. Ben Weinblatt, Warren Kim
ball. Alavry Tuckerman, Herb Polesie, 
Harold Minor, James Resley and Saul 
Schwartz.
A treat is in store for the theater
goers the week of December 15, when 
the Drama Department will produce 
"The Fan. by an Italian author, Gol
doni. "The Fan. although a regular
ly written play, is copied after the 
harlequinade pattern of early Italian 
comedy. In the early harlequinades 
the characters of the play were given 
symbolic names, and the characters 
in every play were the same. The 
actors performed various episodes of 
life, and made up their own lines as 
the play progressed. "The Fan re
tains merely the selection of the old 
harleguinades. Its action centers 
around the efforts of a bashful youth 
to convey a token of his love, a fan, 
to the girl of his choice. Many amus
ing complications arise which are 
finally ironed out. The cast is as fol
lows: Mary Powers, Ann Luria, Mary 
Brown, Jean Blake, Leon Ford, Harry 
Mervis, William Dickey, Saul 
Schwartz, William Martin, Ellsworth 
Perrin, Jack Danials, Joe Wadsworth, 
Donald Alarye and James R. Resley.
FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME 
KEEP SLATE CLEAN OR PLAID 
TRIPS IN GREAT GAME 40 TO 19
(Continued From Page One.) 
all concerned. The Plaid gathered 
great laurels unto itself; Notre Dame 
preserved untarnished its great roc 
ord, remaining undefeated for 1924 
the spectators, including a vast ar
ray of visiting coaches, were treated 
to an exhibition of football scionco 
and skill the like of which has sel
dom ir ever been soon before; and 
lastly, the public now knows what 
Carneglo students have always known, 
that Wally Steffen takes rank with 
the best of those coaches gathered 
at Forbes Field Saturday. Nor are 
any apologies made to K. Rockno.
Even the most ardent supporters of 
the Skibos were thrilled at the spood 
with which the Plaid set about their 
work. After a> rather Inauspicious 
funnible on their own 30-yard lino, 
Carnegie blocked a Notre Damn kick 
which the visitors worn lucky to re
cover. A few seconds later tho procoss was repeated, but this time Ben 
Kristof grabbed up the ball on tho 
run and want 48 yards for a touch 
down. Thereupon tho S'outh Betid 
mentor rushed In his first team, with 
three of the "four horsomon cavort
ing in tho backfiold. They started 
slowly but speeded up and In tho 
second quarter went down tho field 
at full gallop for two touchdowns, 
missing one goal and kicking tho 
other.
Then, just before the half, tho Tar
tans astonished tho multitude by 
scoring again and tying tho count. 
A Notre Dame fumble on thoir 27- 
yard lino was recovered by Kristof 
who handed it to Harmon, the latter 
gaining two yards more. A pass tail
ed, and then Beede crashed through 
center, enabling Newman to make it 
first and ten on tho next play. Bastian was stopped once at left tackle. 
Right there Beedo called for the spin
ner play, so well remembered by Pitt, 
took tho ball and plunged- over for a 
touchdown. Alax kicked the goal this 
time.
This was the climax of the game. 
The "wonder team with the first 
eleven in had been unable to stop Car
negies scoring when at last given tho 
chance to even things up. On every 
lip was the question^ "What will hap
pen next half?
GIRLS GLEE CLUB TO 
UNITE WITH STRINGERSIN OUR LETTER BOX
I'
This year tho Girls Glee Club and | 
the Stringers are to bo under com-1 
bined management, but will have j 
separato officers. The Stringers, hav
ing had two rehearsals with Director 
Steve Konalc, are embarking upon 
what promises to bo one of their 
most successful seasons. Thoir of
ficers for thfe coming year are: Presi
dent. Beunice Zollars, and secretary. 
Margaret Markeyl Other members of 
the Stringers are: Margaret MeColly, Dorothy Deeds, Virginia Brookheart, Catherine Moron, Helen Wil
son. B. Ruff. Melba Leet, Grace Glennor. Lucille Servick, Rose Cohen, 
Elsa Condor. Margaret Norris, Wini
fred Emmert.
Try-outs for the songs to bo sung at 
the Guild Carnival were held last 
Tuesday in the Margaret Alorrison 
Assembly Hall. The Girls Glee Club 
will play quite a prominent role in the 
entertainmeut at the Carnival, and 
will do much to contribute to its suc
cess.
Coach Rockno, however, sensing the 
danger, allowed his team to open up 
a little, and with the using of that 
deadly forward pass attack, the game 
was over as far as mere victory was 
concerned. Not a pass was missed 
during the second half, some twelve 
of them being completed. As a re
sult four touchdowns were added to 
the Irish total, advancing tho score 
to an almost unassailable forty. The 
Plaid gridders fought nobly, but were 
simply outclassed and powerloss 
against such a marvelous air attack. 
Just when they wore figured to be 
through, though, a short sustained of
fensive carried tho oval down to the 
Notre Dame 15-yard line, from where 
Beede, again with a trick play, com
pletely fooled the opposition and jog
ged over for Carnegies last score. 
The whistle blew shortly after, end
ing a clean hard-fought struggle.
There| are no regrets in this game. 
The city champions' play exceeded all 
expectations, and Pittsburgh is proud 
of their wonderful showing. Hailed as 
the gamest team that ever trod upon 
a gridiron, they have served to put 
Carneglo to tho foro, not only in ac
complishments but in the manner of 
performance. Notro Damo is not be
grudged (lie victory. Theirs is the 
greatest football team of all timo, a 
miracle of skill and power, and noth
ing but admiration Is folt, for them, 
save perhaps a thrill or conscious 
pride that, we woro able to acoro three 
touchdowns against thorn.
No attempt will be made to pick 
out tho stars of tho engagement. Car
negie took a leaf out of the Irish book 
and showed that each one 1 o tho 
eleven players on tho field was as good 
as tho rest. Every man throw himself Into tho play, and a team resulted 
that outseorod several of tho coun
trys host in comparativo showing.
Tlio line-up:
Carneglo Tech19.
Notre Dame40.
Goodwin ...............L. E................... Crowo
KrlHtof .................L. T......... McMullen
Anderson ............L. G.......... Gluockert
Manby ..................C........... Maxwoll
Cass ......................It. G......... Ilnnousek
Yoder .....................R, T......... AIcMannon
Hablo ...................It. E................... Eat,on
Bastan ..................Q____... Edwards
Newman (C.) ...L. II..!............ Connell
Wortonborger ..L. IT................ OBylo
Beedo .......................F............... Llvorgood
Score by poriods:
Carneglo -.................. 0 7 0 (1-19
Notro Damo.............0 1 14 1340
Substitutions-Notre Dame -Colllna 
for C'owe, Bowling for McMullen. 
We I bel for Gluockert, Walsh for 
Maxwell, Kiser for Hanousok, Rip
Miller for McMannon, Huntslniior
for Eaton, Stuhldrohor for Edwards, 
Don Miller for OHoylo, Crowley for 
Connell, Cornoy for Llvorgood, Liverpood for Cornoy, Bach for Bowling, 
Harmon for Walsh, Soberer for 
Reese, Connell for Don Miller, Eggert 
lor Welbel, Reose for Stuhldrohor, 
Roach for Crowley, McMannon for 
Bacli Crowo for Collins, Gluockert 
for Weibel, Eaton for Iluntslngor. 
Carneglo TechDonohue for Bastan, 
Harmon for Wortenberger, Mohrman 
for Harmon, Mefort for Goodwin, 
Alyers for Cass, Wertenborger for 
Harmon, Harmon for Wertenborger, 
Guthrie for Kristof. Touchdowns 
Beede 2. Kristof, Llvorgood 2, Alillor. 
Corney, Crowley, Stuhldreher. Points 
after touchdownsNewman (place
ment), Crowley 4 (placements.) 
Alissed goals after touchdowns 
Newman, Bastan, Crowley, Reese. 
Alissed try for field goalsEdwards
PITTSBURGH PLAYHOUSES !
ALVIN:
As sweet as the name, "Betty Lee, 
is a new musical comedy by Otto Harbach. Prominent stars of former pro
ductions take the leading roles in this 
delightful adaptation of the story 
Going Some, by Rex Beach. In ad-! 
dition to the noted cast, including Joe | 
Brown, William Gaxton and Gloria 
Foy, there is a chorus of forty, none 
of whom are over twenty! This play 
has not yet been to New York, but it 
ran in Detroit with great success. This 
is the play in which the Carnegie 
Tech yell is featured.
DAVIS:
The last appearance of McIntyre 
and Heath, the famous black-face 
coihedians, will take the form of a 
skit called "The Man From Montana. 
These two comedians have played'to
gether for more than fifty yearn, and 
were famous some time ago for the 
"Georgia Minstrels.
Other features for the week include 
Nonette, the singing vlollniste, accoivi-! 
panied by Harold Solomon. She has 
eoncertlzed with Schuinan-Heink and 
Nordiea and played in various synphony orchesras.
Stewart and Olive do a song and I
dance act. Albert F. Hawthorne and j
Jonny Cook tear through a laughable 
skit under the caption of Make Ale
Serious. The three Adones do the I
ever-present balancing stunts. Mme. 
Dupree, an artist's model from the 
Latin Quartiere, Paris, will introduce 
a replica of famous masterpieces, un-i 
ier the head of Porcedaln Statuettes. 
Other acts and motion pictures will j 
511 the bill.
PITT:
Those of us who have read "Beggar 
on Horseback, by Alark Connelly and 
George Kaufman, will have to be kept 
away from the Pitt this week It is 
the greatest .theatrical novelty that 
has been given in the last 25 years. 
Roland Young plays the young com
poser of the story, and he is support
ed by Spring Byington, Kay Johnson, 
Richard Barbee and others of note. 
The dream scene, in which the young 
man looses his mind, will be interest
ingly portrayed in stage, and the Jazz 
Wedding will cause considerable 
amusement.
GRAND.
Sundown," the famous spectacle of 
the settling of the West and the re
treat of the Cattle Men before the on
coming Homesteaders, Is a mnrvelous 
picture. One hundred thousand head 
of cattle are seen in various attitudes, 
stampeding, grazing and being 
j'ounded'up, Hobart Hosworth, Bessie 
Love, Charles Murray and Charles 
Crockett make up til'; leading portion 
of the large cast. Fifty ranchowners 
contributed all of their cattle for the 
picture, and the territorial expanse 
shown in some of the scenes excites 
awe.
Students, dont forget the New 
Sclienley Theater has been re-opened 
by Harry Davis Enterprises, and the 
shows will be of the calibre of those 
at the Grand. The entire house will 
be soid at twenty-five per seat, after
noon and evening. Lets ' help the 
doors stay open this time.
Air. Fred C. Smith,
Editor of Tho Tartan.
Dear Sir:
At the game last Saturday, I had 
the misfortune (which it seems I fre
quently have) to see a big. important 
officer of the law, chase a crowd of 
poor half-starved youngsters away 
from the entrance with a surly, 
"Gwan boat it, youse sneakin brats, 
while youse shoe leather lasts! The 
shoe leather. 1 noticed, by the way, 
was pretty thin, so 1 concluded there 
probably were no pennies to reach 
around for a ticket to a football game! 
A boy has to have at least a ragged 
coat and kick-out-at-tlie-toes shoes and 
a pair of patched pantsho doesnt 
need to see a football game!
Ill never forget the wistful, longing 
look in thoso kids eyes, as slowly, 
one by one, they took one last, fond 
look at the gridiron, and I chanced to 
hear one say: Aw, geo. all I wanterd 
t see was tlv ldokoff; gee I aint seen 
one yet! Needless to say, I was 
burning under the collar and t he look
I couldnt help but give that chesty, 
empty-headed officer, or better, cop 
beggars description. Worst of all, 
a long time after the game started, 
only about one-fourth of the grand
stand was filled, and there were at, 
least two empty bleachersbut there 
wasnt any room for a half-dozen poor 
kids who probably have always been 
denied the right to see a college team 
play.
Is this the way wo are going to 
trout our future generation, into 
whom we, on one hand attempt to in2. Time of poriods15 minutes. Of
ficials: ReferooD. W. Very, Pehn 
State. UmpireW. Eckersall, Chica
go. Head linosmanNick Kearns,
Princeton.
still (with a lot of bla-bla) the ethics  
of good sportsmanship and true 
Americanism? And on the other 
hand, instill them with hatred by 
treating them like dogs in the street 
to be chased away with a shout and 
a curse because their presence slight
ly inconveniences their superiors'" 
pocket-book?
In small towns I have visited. I 
have seen at. college games, the town 
urchins organized in an orderly pa
rade, and hi charge of high school 
lads, marched Into the grounds and 
seated in bleachers reserved for them.
11 sure did ones heart good to see 
that crowd of lmppy kids, some with 
mangy pups, all decked out in the 
town schools' colors, and I have heard 
the cheer leaders put them through a 
yell that made the student body green 
with envy In fact, in some cases a 
special cheer leader is devoted to 
them! There you are! Look what 
youre doing for the youngsters, and 
look what they do for you in return! 
Those few home games are an inspi
ration to thoso kids, and it keeps them 
off the street and makes them loyal 
and proud of their "big school and 
their community.
Who knows?
Just this may be the makings of 
future teams that will put a gold star 
in their Alma Mater's crown of ath
letic glory. Gan we afford, then, to 
deny them so small a privilege-r-of 
proving to the poor city kid of Pitts
burgh that Caruegie Tech is demo
cratic and tho best school, after all?
I thank you.
A. M. B.
PLAN UNIQUE PROGRAM
FOR GENERAL ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page One.) 
cidentally this will be his last appear
ance before tho student body this 
year.
That petit damsel, Florence ODonIsltawn will oxecuto sevoval of her 
justly famous dances. Slnco sho is 
quoted of saying, Tho human form 
Is over graceful. Tho danco, when 
It has something poetic and graceful 
to express! is beautiful and how it is 
garbed is of little consoquonco. tho 
management fools quito hopoful and 
anticipates some interesting inter
pretations.
As a climax to tills romarkablo pro
gram, M. Rachmaninoff, tho celebrat
ed xylophono artist, will rattle off 
his soul-racking proludo, Tho Lost. 
Cord," that touching melody com
posed as a student, ho could not find 
tho string to tie his laundry with.
Tlckots are now on sale and may bo 
obtained at May Boogies or tho1 Tar
tan office.
J. M. WHITE TALK8 TO A. 8. C. E.
ON PUBLICITY AND BRIDGES
On Wodnosday, November 19th. Mr. 
J. M. White, a graduate of Massachu
setts Institute of Technology;, at prosout In charge of the Division of Sta
tistics and Publicity, Dept, of Public 
Works of Allegheny County, road an 
Interesting paper to the Student chap
ter, American Society of Civic Engi
neers, rolatlve to Municipal Engi
neering,
This papor brougli up the question 
as to whether an onglnoor should be
come a Jack of all trades and at
tempt to follow all tho branches of 
city engineering such as street Im
provement, garbage disposal, soworago system, oto., or whothor ho should 
specialize.
Air. White mentioned the fact that
Pittsburgh is now active in City Plan
ning and has a Citizens Body, as well 
as two Government Councils for the 
purpose.
After concluding his paper Mr. 
White was prevailed upon to give 
an informal talk on Publicity in con
nection. with the building :if bridges 
and other public-works. Ho then gave 
somo interesting information about 
the new $30,000,000 appropriation for 
bridges and road improvements in 
Allegheny county.
It seems that tho new Oth, 71 h, and 
9th street bridges will bo of unique 
construction, unlike any over built 
In the U. S. Striving for a beautiful 
as well as sturdy structure tho engi
neers have designed a self supporting, 
suspension bridge, an ordinary sus
pension bridge nolng Impractical undor the condition oncountorod.
Tho speaker, In concluding, romarkod that tho Bridge Program for this 
vicinity exceeded in Its scope any 
construction operations over attemp
ted In this country.
Expert Silversmiths of India
East Indian silversmiths are famous 
for their skill and cunning In fashion
ing objects from beaten metal, and 
the beaten work of gold and silver 
adorning thoir temples In India Is 
among tin finest example of th art. 
In the world,
First Church of Christ, Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue
Sunday, It A. M\ and U P. M.> 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A, M.
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dlthrldge and Bnyard 8troetn 
Dr. Frederick C. Nan, Patitor.
Blblo Class ...............................9:45
Sermons for Sttidonta at 11 A.M. 
Loaguo of Youth at 0:30 P. M.
Dont J Be An Antique
Some poople look like an olo rcllc in formal clothes that 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. You'll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Hours: 8:305:30
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
Acacia030 Clyde Street ..................................................................Hiland 9380
Alpha Tau Omega254 Bellefleld Street,...............................Sclienley 9102
Beta Sigma Rlio213G Wight man Street....................................Hazel 9310
Beta Theta Pi5549 Forbes Street....................................................................................Hazel 3320
Delta Chi Rho1408 Wightman Street.............................................Hazel 9194
Delta Mu1055 Shady Avenue.............................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta350 North Craig Street...........................Sclienley 0721-.T
Delta Tiiu Delta5004 Forbes Street.......................................Sclienley 9231
Delta Upsilon4812 Baum Boulevard........................................Sclienley 9196
Iota Sigma Delta5001 Wilkins Avenue........................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Epsilon4732 Center Avenue......................................Sclienley ---------
Kappa Sigma024 Clyde Street........................................................Hiland 9544
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson...................................................Hiland 9127
Pi Kappa Alpha4807 Baum Boulevard.................................Sclienley 9285
Sigma Alpha EpBilon4915 Forbes Street...............................Sclienley 9211
Sigma Epsilon Phi4929 Forbes Street....................................Sclienley 9122
Sigma Nu4921 Forbes Street.....................................................Sclienley 0059
Theta XI5017 Forbes Street.........................................................Sclienley 9143
Woodlawn Club5814 Forbeti Street.................................................Hazel 9422
Dormitories For Women
Forbes Hull........................4910Forbes Stroet.............,,. .Sclienley9079
Forbes Hall Annex...___4910Forbes Slicet................. .Schenloy9340
Mellon Hall........................50529003
Mellon Hall Annex ,... 60629147
Dormitory................................5004Forbes Stroet................ .Sclienley9220
Dormitory...............................5072Forbes Street................ .Schonley9199
Forbes Street................. .Sclienley9473
Dormitory................................5090Forbes Stroet................. .Sehenley9107
Dormitory ...............................5150Forben Street................. .Sclienley9102
Dormitory................................5137Woodlawn Avenue..____Sclienley9430
9434
Dormitory................................5141Woodlawn Avenue....Sclienley 0341-R
Dormitory................................5143Woodlawn Avenue......Sclienley 9433
Woodlawn Avenue..
Woodlawn Avenue..

---------------------------------------------------

Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Wo Do Shingle Bobbing. 
Hata Oloanod. Shoos Shlitod. 
DANIEL & CICEItO 
Proprietor.
Courtesy, Gazette Times
BASKETBALL WILL 
HOLD BIG INTEREST
Players and Assistants For 
Managership Asked to 
Report Now
With the .close of. the football sea
son athletic activities will naturally 
center about basketball and other in
door sports during the remainder of 
the season. Followers of Carnegie 
teams will be treated to several good 
basketball games this winter, as the 
schedule calls for the appearance of 
nationally known teams in our new 
gymnasium.
At . this writing little can be said 
of the prospective strength of the 
team which Coach TBen Lubic will 
place on the floor shortly. The large 
squad, which has been practicing for 
se -erai weeks, will be augmented by 
the addition of several football men 
wno are known to have real basket 
Mil ability. Among these men are 
'Ttcluded Newman, captain of the foot
ball team this year and who plays 
center in basketball, Mefort, also a 
center Mohrman and Beede, guards,
The Singer Pen and Gift Shop in 
the Jenkins Arcade will give you rea
sonable prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old 'fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
and Donohoe, forward. These men 
have previously made their letters in 
basketball. Several other men who 
show promise on the squad also will 
be out, and it is felt that the basket
ball team this year will be, just a 
little better than we have had for sev
eral years past.
The.schedule calls for some very 
good games.! The opening game will j 
be against Princeton in the new gym 
late in December. Notre Dame will I 
also appear in our new gymnasium, i 
These big schools are sure to draw 
large crowds, for interest in their, 
teams is high in this section. Of 
course Pitt, Penn State, Wash-Jeff, j 
Grove City and other high class teams j 
will be met as in previous years. 
There will also be a trip to the East j 
in_ which the team will play in Lan
caster, Philadelphia and New York. 
The schedule will be announced in 
the Tartan next week.
Manager Dick Cutting wants more 
pleb.es out for assistant managers of 
basketball, and it is urged that they 
come out at once. There is a big 
opening in basketball for the men 
who are willing to do a little work in 
their spare time, and at the same time 
there is plenty of enjoyment to be 
had in the task. Also, all candidates 
for the team are requested to report 
without delay.
FOOTBALL SEASON 
WAS HUGE SUCCESS
Future Depends on Backing 
of Those Pushing- Sport
Outlook at Start of Season 
Not Bright But Team 
Shows Up Well
 1)0'you really think timi: a 
ffHJcl pencil 'help's you to do 
iMiltci- work ?"
'Pythias
I know it does I Why, Im 
oven i able to read my own 
handwritinfr, now that I've 
stnrted using a Dixon' 
Eldorado 1"
jTAUBEAP
l/ie master drnwig pendi
Sees One Thing Settled
A radical is one who rejoices when 
a rich man cant get two on the aisle. 
Duluth Herald.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces a series of eight Sat
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Daves 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask for our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
mmimlifter every meal /
ben well.
Good for teeth, .breath and digjesSion.
Makes the next cig taste better.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
j Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn
i Nearest Drug Store to Tech School 
iComplete Up-to-Date Drug Store
When the football camp opened on 
September 1, the coaches were much 
discouraged with the array of mate
rial which confronted them. There 
was very little of a nucleus around 
which to build the team. Especially 
was there a dearth of backfield ma
terial. During t-hjs first week many 
were used in the backfield in an ef
fort to find some promising combina 
tion. Linemen were finally made over 
in order to fill the positions. Note
worthy among these were Dwight 
Beede and Howard Wertenberger. 
Tlieir work this year has been of such 
a caliber that no one would say that 
they wore former linemen, and in ad
dition speaks much for Wally Steffen 
as an able coach.
The first game rolled around and 
with much apprehension the coach 
sent his proteges against the power
ful University of Dayton team. When 
the final whistle blew our team had 
annexed a 14-3 victory. A new lease 
was taken' on our prospects and a 
brighter horizon was predicted. j
With one victory safely put away, 
serious work was begun in order to. 
defeat Tommy Hollerans Thiel team. 
This was accomplished by a score 
of 22-0. The team was fast finding it
self and worked just so much more 
smoothly.
Next in line came the victory over 
Toledo University. Our boys swept 
the visitors completely off their feet 
and crossed their goal line for . seven 
touchdowns and a final score of 5*1-0. 
It was an impressive victory and 
demonstrated that there was some 
power in the Carnegie attack.
The following week found the Skibos going down to defoat before the 
strong Washington and Jefferson out
fit. Fighting from the first whistle 
until the last against a much heavier 
team and on strange territory the 
warriors of Carnegie covered them 
selves with glory for their game fight. 
The score was 10-0 and would possi
bly have been greater but for the de
termination and fight which wan 
shown by I he boys.
On the week following the disas
trous game at Little Washington, the 
Tartans outfought, - outplayed, and 
outgamed the heavy University of 
Pittsburgh team in taking from them 
for the second consecutive time the 
city championship. It was a game full 
of thrills. Time after time the heavy 
Pitt team crashed through our line 
until the shadows of the goal posts 
were reached only to find the Car
negie line brace and further gains im
possible. It was an inspired team that 
defeated Pitt, and all the credit they 
gained was .hard earned and will live 
for many long years in the hearts and 
minds of those who witnessed the 
encounter. To mention any outstand
ing star in this game would be doing 
an injustice to the others, so it can 
be said without fear of refutation that 
all of the boys starred.
Fathers D*.y -was impressively 
celebrated by a 27-0 victory over 
Western Maryland. It was feared that 
the Carnegie Team would go into the 
game over confident and as a result 
would find it hard going, However 
the score shows that the same deter
mination was present in this game 
as was so evident in the Pitt game.
The Nittany Lion is a hard beast 
to overcome in his own lair. The Tar
tans found him so and as a result 
came back slashed and torn .bv a 22-7 
defeat, but with no loss of fight. It 
was a case of a good little team 
against a good big team with all of 
the odds in favor of the big team. 
Mohrman, a substitute back was re 
sponsible for the onlv Carnegie score 
when he intercepted one of Penn 
States passes and raced half of the 
length of the field for a touchdown.
Johnny Groves, the same player 
who defeated Pennsylvania two years 
ago by a field goal repeated his act 
in the Carnegie-Marine. ga. ie and 
thereby broke what appeared like a 
0-0 deadlock. It was a hard game 
marked by the stubborn resistance of 
the Tartan, which, this season, has 
been so outstanding.
The Skibos now had to get down to 
intensive work in preparation for the 
game with Notre Dame, the team 
which is credited with being the best 
in the country. This game required 
the best that the boys could give and 
they were not going to be found sleepOn the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
A WONDERFUL GAME
It surely was. And more than that, for wonderful does not begin to 
express how great a game it was. To be sure, we lost,, but in losing we really 
did not lose so much while we did gain a great deal. As one writer expressed 
it. "Great as the Rocknenien were in victory, Carnegie was oven greater in 
defeat. That just about sums up the situation. Notre Dame played (the 
best football imaginable, but they had to do it to win. They were pressed 
harder than any team had yet pressed them, and the Fighting Irish, most of 
them playing their last regular scheduled game for their Alma Mater, roso 
to the occasion and played as they never played before. We venture to say 
that there are few teams in the country that could complete twelve successive 
forward passes even if they had no opponents against them, -and wore only 
practicing. Notre Damo did it with a smart team trying to broak up the 
passes. That is a record that ought to stand for many, many years. The 
secret is simplethey had men on the team who could throw passes, and 
others who couldd get clear and catch them. Thats all.
Many spectators at the game who were rooting for Carnegie wero sorry 
for two things at the game. They wore the failure of Carnegie to try re
ceiving the ball Instead of always kicking off, and their failure to break up 
the passes of the enemy. It was argued that the Tartans wore able to gain 
when they had the ball, that thoy did not have it often enough bocause prac
tically every time Notre Dame got it they kept it until the goal was reached. 
At least, while the Tartans would have the ball Notre Damo could not score, 
it was said, thus the Four Horsemen would not have trotted up the Hold so 
often and they would have garnorod fewer points. And Carnegie might have 
scored more. Though that is all conjocture, thore is something in it. As 
far as the passes wero concorned, it seomod that most of the time the op
ponents oul-ran the Tartans, so that a perfect pass always hit tho mark. 
At times two of our defensive backs covorod tho same man, allowing an 
eligible Irishman to be free.
But Notre Dame has tho best team we over saw, with no exceptions nor 
restrictions. The fact that we scored moro touchdowns on them than all of 
their opponents this year put togothor speaks, volumes' for us. We fought a 
gooij fight, and only the fact that they wore set for us after their "neardefeat" against Northwestern last week, we would have beaten the wonder 
team. The boys who uphold the glory of Carnegie so fittingly are today re
ceiving their much-earned credit on all sldesl
THE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
It is yet too early to tell exactly the teams that will be on our football 
schedule for next year, but Graduate Managor Ovorond and Head Coach 
Steffen are hard at work trying to arrange t.he very best schodulo possible. 
It is a certainty that. Pitt and Notre Damo will again bo met. Those will he 
the high spots of tho season, as herotoloro. It is also practically certain that 
Penn State, the Marines and Toledo will bo dropped, Penn State refuses to 
.come to Pittsburgh for the game, while thore Is little to bo gained In meeting 
I the Marinos: Relations have boon severed with Toledo on account of alleged 
j unsportsmanship bn tho part of the Toledo players. This Is unfortunate, but 
Carnegie plays a hard, clean gamo. If thoy cannot win fairly they do not 
 want to win, and feci that other teams should follow tho same standard.
From what wo can gather, tho Carnoglo students are tired of going to 
State College each yoar State is met, and are beginning to feel tho same 
way regarding the trip to Little Washington. However, until arrangements 
can be made Lo bring Wasli-.leff to Pittsburgh, we must put up with the pres
ent conditions. One thing in favor of the Wash-JofC trip Is that If Is a com
paratively short one.
It is entirely probable that some other first-class attractions will bo 
booked In tho near future.
| For the edification of those of our 
readers who do not understand Coach 
Steffens famous "spinner" play, the 
I result of which is shown in the pic
ture above, we shall atteniipt to give a 
brief sketch of the play. We n.iglit 
begin by saying that the play in ques
tion lias been carefully scouted by 
every one of our opponerts during the1 
past fow years, but so far no team 
has been able to successfully stop it.
The play itself is very simple, and. 
can bo used either from a "sproad" 
formation or a regular right or left 
formation. In the picture above It 
was a spread formation on Carnegies 
loft side'. Tho ball was snapped to 
Boedo, who was stationed about three 
yards bohlnd the center and a little 
to tho loft. Beede made believe ho 
was going to plunge through center 
on a lino buck. In tho meantime lia
ble, right ond, had turned and run bohind tho scrimmage lino. Beede "link
ed" tho ball to liable in order to make 
It look like an end-run. Hablo folded 
his arms as though he had tho ball 
and kept on running in ordor to car
ry out the deception. But instead of 
giving liable tho ball, Beede made a 
complete turn and immediately plung
ed off Notro Dames left tackle. Tho 
defense had boon drawn over, for 
they could not see that Beodo has 
retained tho ball until it was too late 
and our fullback was gone. Tho pie.turo shows tho only Notro Damo man, 
their loft halfback, who was between 
Boedo and tho goal lino, missing the 
tackle on Boedo by Inches as ho rac
ed for our second touchdown.
This play has become known na
tionally since Chester Brumbaugh 
first,,made It famous a couple of years 
ago. Brumbaugh was a mastor in 
carrying out tho spinner, time and 
again going for fifty yards or moro 
before he was stopped. Boedo Is a 
worthy successor to Brumbaugh.
The team was spirited away to a country hotel Thursday night and the 
boys had a good rest before the game. This custom of Bonding tho team away 
before an important game was Instituted by Carnoglo. Pitt took it up this 
year and returned to dofoat Penn State in one of the biggest upsets of the 
year. Our great showing against Notro Dame and our defeat of Pitt help to 
show that tho custom is a good one.
The approach of cold weather may bo responsible, but it was hard to 
get out of bed in the mornings at tho hotel. It was especially hard for Chet 
liable and Oble Newman, but they won't tell us why. Since they are going 
to leave us next spring they have become very uncommunicative.
Tiny Guthrie has a new way of putting on his shoos. He makes bellovo 
his feet are Christmas trees and he just naturally drapes the shoes on as 
ornaments.
There was a wreck on the main line and the team was compelled to re 
turn on a bus. The report had It that a cattle car .was derailed.
Albert Wineberger, a close friend of Wallys, had a difficult time controll
ing his plates and cups at dinner Friday evening. They insisted on doing 
all sorts of stunts. Ho later learned that a rubber tube leading from the 
cover underneath his plate directly to Wallys chair was responsible. Tho 
coach was manipulating the movements of tlie plate by pressing a bulb al. 
the end of the rubber tube, much to the amusement of all the boys and 
others who witnessed the performance.
It has beon rumored for Quite f;oijiq 
time that Carnegie would have'a box
ing team this year. Now that tho 
foot-bull season is over it is a good 
time t.o get down to facts, and to find 
out what lias, been going on so far. 
this season and what is to be done 
from now on.
As yet no coach lias been obtained, 
but several of the men who are now 
out have had -several years experi
ence along this lino and are quite 
capablo of giving pointers and con
ducting workouts.
The need of a boxing j team has 
been felt for some time, ovoral at
tempts having been made to organize 
one,, but it seemed in the .past that 
equipment and facilities 'for taking 
care of a team could not be obtaiuod. 
The' new' gymnasium will bo of the 
greatest help lor tlie promotion of a 
iba.iix in this sport, offering exercis
ing rooms oquippod" with punching 
bags,, parallel bars and nuiny other 
types of equipment essential in train
ing i'or boxing.
Thevp are several largo, collegos 
and universities within reasonable 
distances Avlth whom Caruogio could 
get matches; among some of the more 
important boing  Penn State, Lehigh, 
Ponn, Ohio State and others, . ,
Tho question at present- is tho .se
lection of a coach; a great' deal not 
having boon done along this .lino yet. 
Obtaining a coach will depend'largoly 
on tho turn out to practices and tho 
calibre of men that come out for Uio 
team.   t
.Prospocts .are bright for -a- good 
team If all tho good boxers'that art) 
around school rp111 come out.  MAny 
of the men now put are training hard 
and getting workouts . each night. 
Some of tho .men out that are show
ing'up well are a follows: Paul l.^iw, 
who has :a|)lllty along this Hue and 
has given much'of his time Instruct
ing some of tho other candidates; 
Red Thompson, a hoavy weight', has 
b()en out working regularly, as well 
;as IVluralc who has been out training 
fpr over >u month. 'Sovoral of tho 
other men now out are Showing -up. 
welli also. Purl Andorson will ho in 
Ukoly candidate, and most of us know 
Ilia ability along this Hue. Several of 
the football men have alroady signi
fied their intention of coming out1 inthe near future.
However,' as has been indicated, 
everything depiuids on the Interest 
shown by tho men themselves. Tho 
Alhlqtlc Council must 1)0 Convinced 
of the sincerity of thd sports back*
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERT8ERS
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
SEE MARTIN
FOR GOOD Till NO'S TO MAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG
M/ PSQUINLM
"Well, we won, shouted a rabid Irish fan as he left the game Satur
day. "Yes, your team plays a good game of basket ball, answered a Car
negie rooter._________________________________________
ing. Though the boys lost by. a 40-19 
score, they were greater in defeat 
than was Notre Dame in victory. Un
questionably the under-dog, the Tar
tans accomplished what no other team 
in the country could dothey scored 
three touchdowns on the famous 
Rockne aggregation. This was more 
than the combined efforts of all of 
tbe other opponents of Notre Dame 
this year could do, and speaks vplumes for the ability of the Plaid war
riors. Only the deadly aerial attack 
of the visitors was responsible for the 
Tartan defeat, Had Carnegie been 
able to solve the puzzling forward 
pass attack of Notre Dame, the score 
might have been different, As it was. 
the first half ended with the count 
tied at 13 each.
The outstanding feature of the game 
against tho greatest team In the coun
try was the dogged spirit shown by 
our boys and the success of Steffen's 
famous ."spinner play. This play cer
tainly was worked to perfection, com
pletely fooling the Notre Dame team 
on the two occasions it was. worked, 
each time resulting in a touchdown 
for us.
The summary shows five wlnr 
against four losses, as follows: 
Carnegie.. .1-1Dayton University.. 3
Carnegie... 22Thiel ........................... 0
Carnegie.. .54Toledo University.. 0
Carnegie/.. 0W. & J........................10
Carnegie... 6Pitt............................... 0
Carnegie .. .27W. Maryland ........... 0
Carnegie... 7Penn State ..............
Carnegie... 0Marines ..................... 3
Carnegie.. .19Notre Dame.............. 40
Totals 149 78
The season just passed through was 
the most successful that was ever 
enjoyed at the Schenley Park school, 
and it was voted that this year's team 
was the best that ever represented it.
ADVERT SE AND GET RESULTS
Invest Your Savings in Bonds
For pc-rflonul lnv<tmont there nre 
row thing that offer hh many mlvantage an good bondi, aufty. 
Income and marketability are tbe 
/actor that nmmiro in venirne t 
value* and In tbetie rcHpccta go od 
bonds are rated hljdi.
your money In bond. 
Whether you can afford one or 
many, yon v/lll And hero lnUjlll|/nt 
In tere t In your requirement and 
a Incoro deal re t/i provide Inventmento that v/lll /It your particular need*.
And remember, you can buy ood 
onda Ir denomination* mi low a* 1100.
Mellon National Bank
P i 11 sbu<5h, Pa.
Mj 
SSW
MsPrtame
This is the verdict of countless students. And 
you will feel the same way, once you have en
joyed the many advantages of the Remington 
Portable Typewriter.
It will save your time. It will make all writ
ing tasks easier. It will help you to do better 
work, and that means better marks. It vyill give 
you a training that will lie useful in all your 
after life.
Huy a portable typewriter at once,, and be sure, 
its a Remington Portablethe students favor
itethe recognized leader in sales and popularity.
Price, complete with case,. 60. Kasy pay
ments, if desired.
Call in and see the Remington Portable.
CHESTER V. BUTLER 
Care Carnegie Tcch Pout Officc 
j. A. DOUGHERTY 
Care Carnegie Tcch Post .Office or 
254 Bclleficld Avenue 
REMINGTO.N TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
102 Sixth' Street, Pittsburgh, Pa. '
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 2, 1924_____________________________________________________________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_
PLAID ATHLETICS
The Touchdown in Second Quarter Which Scared RocknePromising Material ? 
Out For Boxing Team

---------------------------------------------------

iHE CARNEGIE TARTAN
I'll ALUMNI ]PAGE
TUESDAY. DECEMBER 2, 1934
* I* i
i
Y./W.C.A. Activities L.OX IWo LXL1C.O1WA 
On the Increase
WIRNE.OXGSTALXC1LXLUResigns (SCIENCE DINNER TO l TELESC05T] uutL ;---------------------! His Post as Instructor BE GIVEN DEC. 13'1--------------------
Second ' Banquet For Plebes 
and Senior Advisors
Before the year is over, every Car
negie man will be forced to admit 
that his Y. M. C. A. investment has
 paid at least 10 per cent interest. 
Under the enthusiastic guidance of 
,Mr. Davis, the student Y. M. C. A. has
grown steadily in numbers, and in ac
complishments, so that it stands to
day as one of the foremost factors in 
the social life of the school.
On Saturday, November 29, the 
evening after that great third annual 
Notre Dame game, the Y. M. C. A. 
held a three-school stag smoker in the
 Union. A very interesting. program, 
including a magician act by Prof. Ely 
and John Hornbostel, an architect 
plebe; a chalk talk by Carnegies old 
friend, Cy Hungerford, cartoonist of 
The Pitt'->urgh Sun; a skit by the 
Drama Department, and several movie 
reels, was thoroughly enjoyed by all 
present. Of course, no one objected 
to the eats and smokes, either.
The Sunday morning dormitory 
chapel services, which met with such 
wide approval last year, will again be 
instituted on Sunday, .December 
The services will be held in the clubroom of Scobell Hall. Some of the 
best Pittsburgh pastors have been 
scheduled, assuring a series of inter
esting and enlightening lectures.
Mr. Davis requests that all out-oftown men students who expect to re
main in Pittsburgh over the holidays, 
report their names and addresses to 
him. The Y. M. C. A. is planning 
several good times for these men 
events that will make it seem like a i 
real vacation. A dinner will be held 
Christmas Day, at some community 
house in the city. In addition, each 
man will be given a full-membership 
card in the city Y. M. C. A. for the 
holiday season.
The Thursday noon chapels have 
been exceptionally good this year, 
and the interest , of the students , has 
greatly pleased Mr. Davis.  He feels 
however, that many pf the students 
are not taking advantage of this 
splendid opportunity to hear many of 
Pittsburghs foremost speakers.
An event being planned now, which 
further illustrates the great good be
ing done by this organization, is a 
second banquet of the Plebes ,and 
their Senior advis'ors. Edwin Frazier, 
a student in the Commercial Engi
neering Department, is in charge." A 
more definite announcement will be 
made in the near future.
With all the girls wanting to know j 
when the dedication of the name j 
-plates is going to occur, information! 
comes from Dean Browns office that 
the.date for this event is still unde
cided. Although work is still pro
gressing 011 the plates, none are yet 
finished, and two are almost com
pleted. However the date will soon 
be announced when those works of 
art will be placed on the girls dor
mitories.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN____________ ! ____________ j Another season has dosed and
. ! _ . | again the Plaid Grtdders have brought
Come all ye Philadelphia Clansmen Popular Graphica Advisor, Engineering' Professors and glory to our school. Even though we
Will Locate in Florida Alumni Will Banquet at ^ ,"o
-------------------- Carnegie Inn  had one of the host all-around teams
to the meeting at the Arcadia Cafe on 
Friday evening. December 5. at 6 p. 
m. What are we going to do? First, 
we are going to eat, then hold an imEach name plate wilt be a bronze also vlsfnf. Cogie men and.worn-en are invited most cordially to at-tablet, on which is a border of this
tle. Within the border is an inn. rep
resenting educational life, throwing 
forth light to all parts of the seal. 
The name of a tree will be placed on 
the lower portion of the seal. This 
idea of having name plates, which 
was sponsored over a .year ago, is a 
sensible one; it aids one in finding 
the required dorm, und it gives dis
tinction to each.
There may be some opportunity for 
the young woman who answers the 
door to bring off a bon mot in cases 
the caller goes to the wrong door. 
The caller says, "Is this The Pines? 
The young lady may well reply, "You
re barking up the wrong tree; this 
is The Sycamores.
ARTS BALL COMMITTEES
CHOSEN BY CHAIRMEN
TAU BETA PI PLEDGES
FOUR HIGH SENIORS
(Continued Fi.irt Page One)
Tau Beta Pi and a graduate of the 
University of Wisconsin. .In- his 
"Bpefe'ch he laid stress n ^e ideals 
'oT Tau Beta Pi and tht, need for engineers who can apply their knowl
edge to present day problems.
Director Mott ann( -.need the Tau 
nBeti PI elections, and Prof. Trlnka 
^presented the slide rule to Elkins.
Tau Beta Pi is a national engineer
ing honorary fraternity with chapters 
in forty-eight of the principal engi
neering schools of the United States.
tend. Remember, the success of our 
college and clan is dependent on the 
individual effort of each and every 
clansman. So, come on Carnegie, 
lets go!
NEW YORK CLAN
that ever decked our gridiron. A
---------------------- I scrappy, hardhitting and novor-glvostructors at Carnegie, left for Holly-1 The Engineering Alunini-Facutty' up crow; a team that has invariably 
wood, Florida, where he will take dinner will bo hold at the Carnegie commanded the respect of her opcliarge, as superintendent, of The Inn, Woodlawn avenue, on Docom-, -ponents. No one man stands out as
Hollywood Press Company. *>? 13. at 7:00 p. in. These dinuers, j a star, but there were just eleven
During his live years us instructor J which are hold anuually, are inoreas-1 good men who know and play the
of press work at Carnegie. Mr. Creech ! ing in popularity each year, and game,
was the adviser and best friend of the j sponsor a closer tie between the j
Graphic Club, getting behind every J alumni and faculty of Carnegie. i Now, that our football season has
movement, aiul supporting it to his j The committee on arrangements is closed, news will become scarce, and 
utmost. In fact, the success of the j composed of Professor Crabtree, it doesnt require any great amount j
club's Christmas Card Campaign is \ chairman; Doctor James, Professor of imagination to picture what a dlf-|
On Saturday, November 10. James: 
portant meeting at which we shall dis- E. Creech, one of the most popular incuss our annual formal affair, the pos
sibility of having the Carnegie Musi
cal Clubs give a concert in Philadel
phia, and many other important mat
ters.
All members are urged to come out,
Unusual Honors Won 
By Carnegie Alumnus
Malcolm Parcell Has Again 
Received Recognition
largely due to him. Always a cheer-| Work, Professor Hower and Profesfill helper. Mr Creech was greatly aor Tiniks from the faculty, and Mr.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Horace Horne.
CostumeWilliam Adair, chairman; 
Janet Millis, Roslynn Doyle, Virginia 
Wallace, Dorothy Purnell, I. Kranz, 
Harriet Rasehen, Virginia Purnell, 
William Dickey, Herman Ganter.
SocialMargaret Taylor, chairman; 
Harold Wagoner, Mildred Seamen, K. 
Fulmer.
MusicE. F. Miller, chairman, Dave 
Garber.
Publicity  Clarence Lunquist, 
chairman.
Banquet  Robt. Ivredel, chairman; 
Betty Matter.
Secretaries Committee  Eleanor 
Campbell, chairman; Aimee Pharo, 
Ida Waldron, Gladys York, Grace 
Glennon.
Entertainmen tHerb. Polesie, 
chairman; Obie Newman, IlBrdio Al
bright, Yerner I-Ioldene.
Transportation Myron Goodwin, 
chairman.
Plebe Supervisors  Bun Young, 
chairman; Arnold Perreton, Dorothy 
Boyle.
Post - Ball Committee  Wayne 
ICoppes. chairman; Dave Garber.
The selection of the period of the 
ball will be made at the meeting of 
the committee members today and 
will be announced in the next issue 
of the Tartan.
The social affair held at the Boule
vard Cafe by the New York Clan on 
November 14, turned out to be very 
successful. A dinner was given, 
which began the social affair for the 
evening. The second exercise on the 
program was the singing of Carnegie 
songs and dancing. At this event the 
orchestra broadcasted a number of 
Carnegie songs.
The main feature was a short, but 
yet quite spirited, business session 
concerning our graduate manager in 
connection with our football schedule. 
It is desired by the New York alumni 
to have one of our games scheduled 
to be played in their metropolis. As 
to -whether it may be possible is yet 
to be stated.
Radio parties have been formed for 
the Marine and Notre Dame games. 
This shows that spirit is not lacking 
in our alumni.
It may be quite interesting to note 
the members who have made this last 
social affair a suc^ss. Those present 
| were: Mrs. and .irs. George L. Bur
gess,' Miss Helen Lamport, D. A. 
Curtis, H. W. Elnsteir, Mrs. M. R. 
Sheldon. W. M. Sheldon, J. M. Guter, 
Mr. and Mrs. Harry A. Silverman, 
Jack Cameron, G. L. Tilbrook, Mrs. 
J. A. Cameron, Miss Helen Stowe, I-I. 
P. Franks, B. M. Broudy, O. Alfred 
Dickman, Bernard II. Goldenson, S. A. 
Smith, Miss Catherine Cameron, 
Lacla J. Roeser, Harold P. Blinco, 
Raymond L. Kreidler and Miss D. 
Sommer.
liked by every student with whom he 
came into contact, and was regarded 
by the student body as a real friend, 
as well as a good instructor.
Just before his departure, on No
vember 13. he was tendered a ban
quet by the Graphica Club, and pre
sented with a Tarpin Fishing Outfit, 
as a token of the clubs appreciation 
of his efforts in the time past.
Mr. Creech, an authority in his field, 
is one of the outstanding figures of 
the country as an instructor of press 
work.
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch ,
The place where all good fel
lows meet and enjoy a good 
meaL
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert. 
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
CLOTHES
for the 
classes
before
they are 
popular 
with
the masses
From Our Tailor Shops 
DIRECT TO YOU
Save the Middleman's Profit. 
Made to Your Measure.
All Wool, $29.50
CARS
I weave among the cars with grace
less ease,
As nonchalantly though they were my 
own.
I gaze upon each liighly-lacquered 
hack,
Resplendent in its ciat of polish black.
I register disdain, for scorn I feel
Contempt for every morcal at the 
wheel.
A ride Id neither borrow, beg nor 
steal.
Id rather walk my aimless .way alone.
As motorists brush past in natty 
crocks,
They bail me; though I know it 
makes me moan.
I never yet disdained to take a life.
I watch him jab his clutch and watch 
him shift.
I blushI dont know why I blush so 
red
And wish, that I'were walking down 
instead;
But, after everything is done and said,
I wish I had a wagon of my own.
Lightly Clad
Preacher (climbing to oratorical 
heights)Breathless and pantless he 
dashed into the city of refuge?.Toron
to GObiin.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
VARSITY CLAN DINNER 
PROBABLY JANUARY 21'
A banquet in honor or the Varsity 
Clan will be given on or about Jan
uary 2. There Is not a great quan
tity of informatioon to be had at this 
time; but the letter men are to bo 
assured that a bigger and fuller even
ing is promised. Buddy Overend is 
aiding in making a tentative proced
ure toward the best Clan dinner in 
the history of Carnegie and antici
pates for the bearers of our gonfalon 
something of such keen interest that 
it will fu'ther bind their hearts in 
representing the best that Carnegie 
offers.
ERIE CLAN
The Erie Clan assembled Ij the 
University Club at 6:30 p. in., /Thurs
day, November 20; there were about 
20 members present at this meeting.
After dinner had been served, and 
disposed of, the reguly meeting was 
called to order At thlb time the fol
lowing men wore elected as officers of 
the clan for Hie coming year: Presi
dent, E. Goss; vice president, II. 
We.ber; secretary and treasurer, T. H. 
Reed.
Plans were formulated for the 
twelfth annual Christmas party. A 
committee was appointed to take 
charge of this matter and to insure its 
success. One of the important issues 
discussed was the question of closer 
contact with the students.
Lists are to be compiled of all stu
dents hailing from the vicinity of Erie. 
The high schools in the vicinity have 
been consulted concerning a musical 
club concert Issued by the local clan.
The next regular meeting will be 
held on December 11, in the Univer
sity Club. At that time an attempt 
will be made to secure movie films of 
the Carnegie football team in action 
during the past season.
The members present at this meet
ing were: H. Weber, G. Reed, R. 
Reed, T. H. Reed, E. Hedlund, T. 
Copeland, R. Altermatt. C. Carney, C 
Kaltenhauser, H. G. Kost, E. K. 
Benson, W. S. Hug, Phil Dietly, Jr., 
O. Kelsey, C. Donnelly, E. Goss.
CONNECTICUT CLAN
| Oakland Savings & f 
| Trust Co. |
X **
Member Federal Reserve *{
System.
 Capital.............................$300,000.00 
X Surplus ... 1 --- - $300,000.00
Deposi.ts, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES
J W. Dougherty, chairman, Mr. W. 
H. Skiukle, Mr. \V. W. Tilbrook of 
the alumni.
All alumni are urged to come out 
and take part in the open discus
sion which will covor all phases of 
engineering as it Is given at Carne
gie. Constructive criticism of all sorts 
will be invited.
Several surprises have been ar
ranged. They will include the show
ing of films covering all of the foot
ball games played during the past 
season.
Arrangements have been made with 
Mr. Miller who is in charge of the 
Carnegie inn, to use the grill room 
on the basement floor. This room is 
very comfortable and has a large 
open fireplace. All are urged to 
come at six o'clock, if possiblo and 
to bring their pipes and enjoy a 
comfortable chat with their old asso
ciates and classmates before dinner 
starts. Tobacco and cirgnrottoS will 
bo furnished by the Alumni Associa
tion. The clmrgo for the dinner will 
be $1.25.
Reservations accompanied with a 
check and solf-addrossed stamped en
velop must be in the hands of Mr. 
Tilbrook, Alumni Executive Secre
tary, before Docembor S, as the ca
pacity of Carnegie Inn is limited to 
two hundred and fifty persons.
flcult task confronts the editor who 
tries to fill the paper without news. 
This is the pportnne time for Clans 
to begin to get the publicity for their 
holiday festivities. Use your school 
paper and let the other Clansmen 
know what you are doing. Not only 
should the Clan meetings i wl festivi
ties be advertised before-hand, but a 
follow-up story should be sent in after 
the affair has been held.
Some of the Clans have adopted 
this method, and we will welcome a 
similar plan from the others. Its 
your page. Why not use it?
The mens dormitory infirmary 
sooms to bo more of a reality every 
day. Even now a half-dpxon plans 
have been put up for inspection. This 
addition to the mens dormitorios is 
much needed and will tend to help 
along the already liomo-liko atmosphore
GRAPHICA CLUB IN NEED
OF STUDENT BODYS AID
JDfffilL
Nationally. Known 
Justly Famous
Our representative, Mr. Wil
liam C. Harlow, will display at 
Skrbo Inn Wednesday and 
Thursday, December 3 and 4.
A Christmas delivery guara 
teed.
On Monday evening, November 17. 
in . the Kingston Coffee Shop, Con
necticut Trust Building, about, twenty 
members of the Hartford branch of 
the Connecticut Clan assembled to 
celebrate the recent victory of Car
negie over Pitt.
The first half of the evening was 
devoted to a delightful supper; the 
last half to business and speeches. 
The speaker of the evening was Mr. 
G. L. Tillbrook, alumni executiW of 
Carnegie. "Tilly told the clan of the 
general condition of things at Car
negie, and stressed the closer co
operation of the Alumni Bureau. 
Everything then was cleared for the 
battle between Carnegie and Pitt, 
which was told dramatically by Mr 
Tillbrook. That old Parn^ge sp!rit 
was evident throughout the story. 
The meeting ended with a, few snappy 
yells, directed by Bill Gallagher, and 
the singing of "Dear Old Tech.
Those present were: Alumni Sec 
retary G. L. Tilbrook, President R. W 
Arnold, Vice President C. E. Ruther 
ford, Secretary-Treasurer K. W. Fin 
ley, A. J. Edstrom, L. F. Fogg, J. Ge' 
man, W. F. Gallagher, W. Harrington. 
L. H. Hale, C. F. Johnson, E. D. Lam
bert, A. E. Levin, C. A. Nordstrom, D 
Nemser, G. T. Rowley, H. G. Selleck, 
Nr. Tramonte and H. Welgold.
VARSITY CLAN BANQUET
SCHEDULED IN JANUARY
(Continued From Patce One.) 
the banquet have not been made as 
yet,, reports are that It will greatly 
j exceed all similar affairs of former 
1 years.
Cynical French Proverb
After, pleasure comes repentance; 
afier mu-Plance. virtue-.
BALTIMOREPresident, Arthur W. Crownover, Maryland (lass 
Corporation, Bromo .Seltzer Tower Building; Vice President, 
G. S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments; Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets; Secretary and Treasurer, P. II. Dickey, 1318 Contin
ental. Building.
BOSTONSecretary, John F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Hoad, AVollus 
ton, Mass.
BUFFALOPresident, R. G. Townsend, 22 Bdwell Parkway; Vico 
President, B. A. Lutton, 288 Saranac A"mue; Secretary and 
Treasurer, Robert Porter, 167 Porter Avenue.
CHICAGOPresident, J. B. Patterson, Ravinia, 111.; Vice President, 
Mrs. G. F. MacCaughcy, 515 Vine Street, Park Ridge, III.; 
Secretary and Treasurer, 0. Lundy, 5475 Kimbark Avenue, 
Chicago, 111.
CINCINNATISecretary, J. W. Batman, care Jobns-Monvillo Co.
GENRARLNSMBY WOMEN'S CLAN-President, Mrs. Eleanor Clark; 
Vice President, Mias Jean Grey ; Secretary and Treasurer, Miss 
Catherine M, Allan, 622 East 124th Street.
CLEVELANDPresident, George A. Eliding, Ncwmnn-Stern Build 
ing; Vico President, Mrs. M. J. Montgomery, 492. East 108th 
Street; Vice President, Albert May, 12563 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treusurer, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington 
Avenue.
CONNECTICUTPresident, R. W. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 41 Kenneth 
Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer, IC W. Fin
lay, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
DAYTONPresident, Fred Flader, 2505 West River view Avenue; 
Vice President, F. W. Heclcort, 1127 Grafton Avenue; Secre
tary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Grafton Avenue.
DETROITPresident, W. Ray Williams, care Wcstmghousc E. & MCompany, 1535 Sixth Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. 11. 
Miles, Miles-Appleby Company, 4612 Woodward Avenue.
ERIESecretary and Treasurer, Edwin Grosk, care Hammermill 
Paper Company.
HARRISBURGPresident, John G. Todd, 20M North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.; Vice President, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Wood
bine Street, llan-isburg, Pa.; Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 20V*> 
North Queen Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, Ritchie Lawrie, 
116 Locust Street, Harrisburg, Pa.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, E.
TOHNSTOWNSecretary, Jolin W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
LOS ANGELESSecretary and Treasurer, Frederick Kindi, R. D. 7, 
1007 South Stanley Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal.
MONONGAHELA VALLEY CLANPresident, Conrad A. Stone, 
Box 391, Charleroi, Pa. ; Vice President, Miss Alice G. Nixon, 
58. Schoonmaker Avenue, Monessen, Pa.; Secretary and Treas
urer, A. B. Lowstutter, Box 91, Charleroi, Pa.
NTSW YORKPresident, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, Westches
ter Park, Tuckahoe, S. Y.; Vice President, M. L. Patterson, 
86 Palisade Avenue, Bogota, N. J.; Secretary and Treasurer, 
E. M. Gretzler, National Supply Corporation, 120 Broadway.
srORFOLKPresident, T. D. Fitzgibbon, 811 Holt Street; Secretary, 
James W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIAPresident, Paul W. Emmel, 5710 North SeventhStreet; Vice President, L. E. Exline, 213 South 47th Street; 
Secretary and Treasurer, John S. Gickiug, 220 Sixteenth St.
PHILADELPHIA CLANS' OFFICE542 Real Estate Trust Bldg.
PITTSBURG1'-President, M. R. Walton, 5888 Alderson Avenue.
SAINT LOiJISPresident, Paul Klingensmith, 10 Jefferson Road, 
Webster Groves, Mo.; Vice' President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 
NVaverly Place, Webster Groves, Mo.; Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 
2128 Railway Exchange Building; Treasurer, Nelson P. Rice, 
1064 Arcade Building.
I'ULSA....-Temporary Secretary, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 S. Quaker St.
VASIUNGTON, D. C.President, J. it. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Miss Harriet Staples, 3611. S Street, 
N. W.; Secretary and Treasurer* A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington 
Place, N. E.
YOUNGSTOWNPresident, W. N. Flanagan, 140 South Portland 
Street; Vice President, It. P. Woodward, 165 Carroll Street; 
Secretary, J D. Woodworth, 2913 Southern Boulevard.
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
morT dormitories will bo thoroughly 
canvassed by this group.
Another section of the workers will 
bo fed on hot cakes fried In Stacomb, 
and Instructed to use Palmolive Soap 
for a week. They will then bo loosed 
on the Maggie Murphs. All disap
pointments will bo reported to the 
xooutlvo committee, and duly circu
lated to tho student, body.
It can readily bo soon that tho 
Graphica is 111 leu with the same spirit 
that boat Pitt. It is useless to resist 
thorn. Stop in at tho Printing Do 
partmeut In Industries and leave your 
orders.
Conccilcd Weed
From i lie same old clod of earth 
grow both weed und Mower -and tho 
wee ( /es Itself nils....Hodonslodt.
LEARN TO DANCE
at tho
Jnoquoa School of Dancing 
Crnljj and Forboo Struct 
Boglnnorii Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private losBons 
by appointment-;
This In a School
Not a public daneo hall.
The awarding by tho Chicago Art 
Institute of tho Logan modal und tho 
Norman Walt Harris medal to Mal
colm Parc.oll, the early part- of No
vember, marks tho latest triumph of 
this young artist who is still In his 
twenties. The above mentioned med
als, carrying a value of $1300, are 
competed for by the foremost artists 
of the country, and tho fact that both 
wore awarded to Mr. Parcoll after he 
was invited to exhibit his work gives 
some indication of his remarkable tal
ent.
Parcell, whose homo is in Washing
ton, Pa., received most of his training 
here Carnegie Tech. He attended 
the College of Fine Arts for fouryoars, 
ona at night and three as a day studont. Ho supported himself during 
his period and studied in his spare 
time. His first notable success >vas 
achieved five years ago when the Nn 
tional Academy of Design awarded 
him tho Saltus Medal of Merit for liis 
painting Louine. In .the,five years 
that have followed he rosoito his pres
ent position of national importance iu 
the world of art.
His painting which won tho Logan 
modal "Portrait of My Mother will bo 
vividly recalled by those who saw 
tho International Exhibit at Carnegie 
Institute in Pittsburgh last spring. 
His portrait which won ho Harris 
modal Jim McKee was not begun 
at that time.
'International Studio for August 
of this year pays him high tribute In 
an article entitled "Parcell, Realist 
and Romanticest. It remarks "His 
Loulne was remarkable for tho stur
dy simplicity of Its design, Its reson
ant color, and, most of all, for the 
element of mysterious fascination in 
tho character of the graceful young 
woimin. Tho work was so personal, 
so lacking In reminlsconsos of any 
other paj.ater, that discriminating art 
lovers romomborod it with keen de
light. and kept an expectant oyo opon 
for anything new from Mr. Parcell's 
brush. Ho exhibited nothing from that 
time until May 1022 when tho Mac
beth Gallerios, gave an exhibition of 
olght of his paintings. Thon It was 
made loar that the talent- displayed 
In hW. National Acadomy picture of 
throe years hoforo was no chance 
quality, but something very genuine.*
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hnzol 5149 Near Forbon
WELCOME TO ALL 
TI.IE OLD AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
PATRONIZE OUR A.V ERTISERS 
p O a
JJEgg.V
c
toJVlLLI
HARARE:
Low Cost Trips to EUROPE 
Summer of 1925
WHY dont you plan to go to Europe next sum
mer? You canat a cost within your means. 
Last summer chousands of students and teachers 
learned how to do it. On one voyage of the Levi
athan alone over 70 institutions were represented by 
2.2,5 students and teachers. In 1925 thousands more 
will en :oy the pleasures of a European trip. You can 
be one of them if you will only get the fdcls.
The United States Lines have made it possible for 
Americans to go abroad comfortably yet econom
ically. .Exclusive accommodations, formerly third 
class, have been prepared and reserved on U S. 
Government ships. The cost of passage is only $85 
and up. This includes clean, comfortable cabins, 
good food, willing service, exclusive deck and 
dancing space, and many other features 
You can learn all the details by sending the coupon 
below. Illustrated literature,including a Princeton 
Professors account of his trip last summer will be 
sent you at once. Varied itineraries to help you 
plan your trip are included in this booklet. Start to 
make your plans now. Talk them over at home dur 
ing the Christmas vacation But get the facts now.
States Lines
New York City 
BOARD
:0BLEjja
United
45 Broadway
U. S
Manouinu Ojwwnr loSHIPP I NG
Kiilireiematlve
TOULOUS E
UNITIiD H'l A7 H8 LINlvH 
45 nroaUn-nv ' -rkCliv_________SKldl-Hln' 'I'nijn ft! (MO _____
Ilcimc send mo lltcrimiro Inclutlln tin. "LowCost Trip* 10 Ktirope,"
If 1 |o dntc will ha (boui ....................................
Tlicrc will be.
Nitrne, 
lAddrcas.
FRANK Pi
M:ci
m H
AQEMms
&A5C-E
aswiK 
......O
sifoni-Zi ; 
"G..
/
