WRITE TO 
MOTHER 
i Mothers Day May 14
SOPH HOP 
FOUR SCHOOLS 
Win. Penn Hotel 
Friday May 12
VOL. XVI. NO. 32CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1922
MUCH INTEREST 
IN QUEEN OF 
MARDI GRAS
Election Closes May 24List 
of Nominees to Date is An
nounced. History of Mardi 
Gras.
USE OFFICIAL BALLOT
The Queen of Techs Mardi Gras is 
being elected. Sixteen Seniors have 
lieen nominated and judging from the 
votes cast, all sixteen have an equal 
chance.
Standing of the candidates will be 
announced in next weeks Carnegie 
Tartan. Dean Scales and Dean Tarbell have consented to act as judges
1 and count the votes. The contest 
closes at 7 p. m. Wednesday, May 24, 
and the winner will be announced in 
the Friday issue of the Campus Cour
ier.
To be Queen of the Mardi Gras is 
one of the greatest honors to be con
ferred on any woman. New Orleans 
elects a Queen for its annual Mardi 
Gras. New Orleans is the home of 
the Mardi Gras in the United States, 
the first being held in that city in 
1830. It is considered one of the bril
liant social events of the country. Vis
itors flock from all parts to visit New 
Orleans, at the time of their celebra
tion.
Techs Mardi Gras, last year, was 
the feature event of Campus Week. 
This year it will exceed all expecta
tions. At present, tear a ballot from 
the Tartan and vote for your Queen.
The following girls have been nom
inated for Queen of Techs Mardi 
Gras:
Mary Listfelt.
Joe Whitney.
Anne McDonald, 
j Laura Bugher.
Marian Skull.
Marian M;cCoombs.
Harriet Morgan.
Mary Little.
Thelma Adams.
Virginia Adams.
Martha Levy.
Helen Reed.
Hap Hester.
(Mary McCloskey.
 ' " Isabel Winner.
(Continued On Page Two.)
Pres, of S.I.E. Speaks 
at Opening Smoker
Members Elect Officers 
Local Chapter
of
The Carnegie Student Chapter of 
the Society of Industrial Engineers 
hold its initial Smoker Tuesday eve
ning, of last week in the Faculty 
Club Room. Prof. Leeds opened the 
meeting, and gave an account of his 
efforts to procure a Chapter of this 
Society for our men. His talk was 
followed with nominations for offi
cers. During the voting; he intro
duced. Mr. Rowe/President of the S. 
I. E., who spoke of the efforts, at 
the recent Commercial Engineering 
Conference held here, to discover 
correct type of training for men who 
would become Commercial or Indus
trial Engineers. He declared that 
no set curriculum could be agreed 
upon but that the message which the 
conference wished to impress, is that 
the student should carry away with 
him character, reliability, integrity, 
capacity to analyze and to think 
clearly and constructively, and a will
ingness to accept and meet responsi
bility.
The results of the election were 
then announced: Rodge Marshall,
President; Foster, Vice-President; 
Mater, Secretary and Greenlaw, 
Treasurer. The Tartan Entertainers 
then furnished a popular concert dur
ing which refreshments were served. 
Moving pictures were prohibited while 
awaiting the arrival of President 
Hamerschlag, who spoke on liis re
cent trip and the successes of the 
many Carnegie men he met abroad. 
The need >of highly trained;, high(Continued on Page Four.)
WOMENS BANQUET CAMPUS 
WEEK FOR ALL CO-EDS
SAT., MAY 27, 6:CO P. M.
The women's banquet planned for 
Campus Week will be in charge of a 
committee of girls from Margaret 
Morrison and Arts Colleges. Any girl 
or alumna from these schols should 
boost this event.
A heading in the last issue of the 
Tartan inferred that this was an M. 
M. C. C. affair. That was a mistake 
and should not be misconstrued.
CARNEGIE MEN TO GO 
To R. 0. T. C. CAMPS
Fifty-Five Students to Attend 
Camp Humphries, Vail, 
and Holabird
icarnegie Tech will be represented 
by fifty-five men at tlie Reserve Of
ficers Training Corps Camps which 
will be held this summer. There 
will be three units here, Engineers, 
Motor Transport and Signal Corps, 
each of which will have a separate 
camp.
The Engineer Camp of this area 
will be held at Camp Humphries, 
Va,. which is located 20 miles be
low Washington, and five miles from 
Mt. Vernon. There will also be 
camps for Engineer R. O. T. C. 
students at Camp Custer, Battle 
Creek, Mich., and Camp McClellan, 
Georgia, to which students living 
at that region may go on securing 
special permission from the Com
manding General Third Corps area.
The time at camp will be divided 
into three grades of work, namely, 
General Military subjects, including, 
Drill, Physical Exercise, Target Prac
tice, shooting at the rifle . range, and 
athletics.
The second takes in minor tactics, 
including practice marches, field exer
cises) and engineering operations in 
combat. The third and major takes 
in only military engineering work in 
bridges, railroads (narrow guage con
struction and operation), demobiliza
tion, engineer reconnaissance, forti
fication and special engineering sub
ject, depending on choice.
The Motor Transport Camp will 
camp at Camp Holabird, Md., which 
is located about five miles from Bal
timore. Instruction will he given In 
(lie fundamental military subjects, 
automobile mechanics-,' and convoy 
work. Manyi Cross country convoy 
trips will be made.
Tlie Signal iCorps Camp will be 
at Camp Alfred Vail, Oceanport, N. 
J., which is six miles from Asbury 
Park, and two miles from Long 
Branch, N. J. The schedule of in
struction is as follows: General mil
itary subject, twenty-five-liour infan
try drill and physical training, one 
hour hygiene and camp regulations, 
one hour military courtesy and cus
toms of the service, two hours of 
pack and shelter tent, seven hours 
practice march, twelve hours pistol 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The chief element of gratification 
of the conference was the unusual 
opportunity afforded for business 
men aud engineers to meet the edu
cational interests, and to cover the high 
spots in training that engineering 
graduates need.
Men of affaire from large corpora
tions, chambers, of commerce, enginering societies, and trade bodies 
came to voice their opinions, as to 
the shortcomings of young engineers 
when first entering business fields. 
Educators from more than 50 col
leges realized the advantage of exipert counsel, absorbed the suggest 
tions and recommendations advanced 
by tlie industrial interests.
Tlie direct benefits derived ^rom 
the meetingsi can hardly be meas
ured now. The recasting of engi
neering and businss course, to fit 
industrial needs will take place. 
Benefits will show themselves In the 
success of future graduates;.
Institutions not so far advanced 
in the curricula changes were helped, 
at this conference, to visualize more 
clearly the ideal curriculum that a 
student needs.
At tilie close of the conference 
Tuesday, a committee on resolutions 
voted to endorse, generally, the rec
ommendations passed at the previous 
convention, and also passed resolu
tions! of minor nature. One of these 
was to adopt a standard terminology 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Mechanicals to Hold 
Banquet May 18
Will be at 7th Ave. Hotel. 
Prof. Trinks Chairman
Co-eds Concert and Dance
The annual banquet of the Car
negie Mechanical Enginerring So
ciety, Student Branch of the A. S. 
M. E., will be held Thursday, May 
18tli, 7:00 p. m., at the 7tli Avenue 
Hotel. This event is the big happen
ing of the year -for the mechanical 
engineers, and tlie department will 
turn out en masse for a lively even
ing. Prof. Trinks, Honorary Chair
man of the society, has intimated 
that he has several new stories up 
his sleeve to spring at his annual 
address to the society.
- Many old grads from the depart 
ment will be on hand to have their 
cup of sack and venison, and to hear 
about what their department has been 
doing the past year or two. Watch 
The Tartan next week for full partic
ulars. Freshmen who have, or intend 
to elect Mechanical Engineering as 
their course next year, will be wel
come at the banquet.
ARCHITECTS TAKE MANY
AWARDS AT BEAUX-ARTS
The Womens Glee Club gave their 
Home Conceit Friday evening, May 
5, in the Twentieth Century Club. 
The concert, combined efforts of the 
Glee Club and the Stringers, was 
one of the best they have given 
and was enjoyed by a large and ap
preciative audience.
The solo numbers: by Miss Rentz 
and Mrs. Elliot and readings by Miss 
Harmon were especially well accept
ed. The Stringer Specialty, embody* 
ing the Harmonic Trio (Miss Winner, 
Walton and Burrows) behind the 
scenes, Misses Coombs and Davies 
at the piano, and Miss Lutz in a nov
el solo part, was a decided hit.
Giles fOrd!hestra furnished music 
for those who wished to indulge in 
the terpsichorean art, and it seemed 
that everyone did, judging from the 
number on the iloor.
The whole evening was a decided 
success, for which cedit is due the 
committeeMiss Margaret Taylor, 
Martha Zimmerman, Helen McConkey, Margaret Kimmel, Dorothy 
Mong,.ayethen Issel, Florence Luttz, 
Mar Lond.
Carnegie Tech architects again 
made an enviable showing in compe
titions under the auspices of the 
Beaux-Arts Institute of Design, New 
York City. Of 21 awards made in 
recent judgment by the Beaux-Arts 
Institute, 15 of the awards were won 
by students in the Department of 
Architecture. Of the seven highest 
awards, five were to Carnegie Tech 
men.
The problem was the design of a 
jewelry store. Work was submitted 
by architectural students in many 
leading colleges, including Yale, Col 
umbia, Cornell, Massachusetts Insti
tute of Technology, Illinois, Minnesota, 
Kansas, Chicago, St. Louis, Universi
ty of Pennsylvania, and others.
Awards were made to the follow
ing men: first mention. Placed: Krei 
sle, McGarvey, Taomina, Staples and 
Page. First mention: Barton. Everhard, Franklin, Echorst, Pyle, Schell, 
Zimmer and Lake.
A judgment was also held on ele
mentary work. In an order problem 
to design a garden bridge on a large 
estate, a first mention was won by 
A. D. Reid of the Department of Ar
chitecture.
A-,
MANY TOPICS 
DISCUSSED AT 
C.E. CONVENTION
Commercial Engineering Con
vention Held Last Week 
Shows Great Strides in Ed
ucation.
STUDENTS TO ATTEND
OUT-OF-TOWN STUDENTS
WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO 
USE PARK TENNIS COURTS
The superintendent of parks has 
requested me to announce to the stu
dents of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology that tenuis permits for 
the use of the courts in Schenley Park 
will not be issued I to any students 
whose homes are not within the city 
limits of Pittsburgh. This notice is 
in compliance with the regulations of 
the city, aud cannot be changed for 
any individual. The. demand for per
mits for these courts far exceeds the 
capacity.
(Signed)
ARTHUR A. HAMERSCHLAG.
Many Improvements 
Beautify Campus
Locust Bushes Planted on 
Cut. Rough Spots 
Eliminated
SILVER BAY CONFERENCE 
TO BE WEEK 0E JUNE 15
The Silver Bay Student Conference 
will be held at Lake George, New 
York, during the week of June 15-23, 
inclusive. Students-, representing 
nearly every college in the northeast 
will attend. Matters of vital import
ance to the Christian world will be 
discussed at the conference. The 
speakers will be men of world prom
inence, among whom aro John R. 
Mott, I-Ienry Sloane Cofiln, Harry 
Emerson Fosdlck, Robert E. Speer 
and Arthur Rugli.
Carnegie will be represented by 
Bowers, Sprinkle, Crago, Horn, Dlmlnesco and others Including Mr. Davis, 
Y" secretary. Other students who 
would be Interested In attending the 
conference should see Mr. Davis at 
the "Y olllce,, Industries building.
THETA TAU HONORARY
INITIATES NEW MEMBERS
During the last week, Theta Tau 
fraternity initiated the following men 
into membership: J. D. Evans, A. H. 
Tosteson, E. R. Gorman, F. H. Alli
son, C. W. Fisher, H. H. Burdick, D. 
McC. Grey, G. N. Thompson, T. N. 
Griggs, L. C. Schweitzer, L. L. Ferral and J. J. Donnelly.
The initation banquet was held at 
the Hotel Chatham on Saturday even
ing. R. G. Anderson, who is employed 
at the U. S. Burean of Mines and an 
alumnus from Delta chapter gave an 
interesting talk after which each of 
the new members entertained with 
a few words. 
Graphica Working on Bagpipe
The Department of Printing ana 
Publishing, at present time resemble! 
a well organized and industrious 
printing establishment. The menhers of the department are all busilv 
engaged in the production of two im
portant publications of the year, tl e 
Bagpipe and the Inspection Trip Re
port.
The Graphica, under whose super
vision the publishing of these tvo 
books takes place has ap<point<d 
managers to oversee each division 
the work, together with assistants 
aid in minor details.
The Bagpipe will be bigger a 
better than ever before. It will cc 
tain articles on all subjects relati 
to the department, written by Grai 
ica members. The typography vill 
be made as nearly perfect as possil: e, 
for the circulation of this issue \ ill 
be among the best printed in Ann rica This is the best means the lepartment has to advertise the cou se 
in printing and publishing, and as a 
result it is expected that the Fr< oil
man class of next year will be lar er 
than the class of 25.
In addition to this, a forty-el ht 
page booklet on the Inspection  ip 
will be issued. The report will be 
printed on hand-made paper, nd 
special attention willbe given to n aleing It one of the best specimen! of 
the work ever turned out by the arnegie Tech printers.
The plans for the work iu spring 
have resulted in planting of 1,000 
locust bushes on the Braun slope 
which adjoins the cut. Along with 
the 1,000 locust bushes have been 
planted between 1.000 and 1,500 lo
cust bushes bearing yellow flowers, 
on the slope along the cut, between 
Forbes Hall and the College of Engi
neering. Along the cut one sees the 
bushes that have been planted during 
the Easter recess on the slope in 
front of Scobell Flail.
The boardwalk, between Machinery 
Hall and College of Fine Arts, and tho 
College of Fine Arts and M. M. Col
lege, will disappear this summer: The 
long contemplated tunnel will be in
stalled, to be topped with a concrete 
walk. The walk will follow the level 
of the ground, with steps near the Ma*- 
chlnery Hall end.; Concrete walks 
will eventually connect the College of 
Industries and the. Colloge of Engi
neering.
Several of the classes have talked 
of planting class trees, each class tree 
to,iliave a metal plate nead by, and to 
havo several benches under around 
the tree, and to bo (used as plana of 
meeting at times of reunions, as 
Campus Week and , Commencement 
Week. The trees to b-i planted should 
be of such a sort that, they bo oaslly 
trimmed, and can ,Withstand Pitts
burgh weaitiei. 
It is hoped tlmt at | tho intersection 
of the College of Industries and the 
College of Engineering we will have 
ti fountain of fair size, and of a rustic 
nature.
Arrangements havo been mado 
through Dr. Baker to celebrate Arbor 
Day with the planting of a tree. Tho 
planting of tree will bo conducted 
with simple exercises, which all tlio 
school'is expected to attond.
Drama Dept, to Present 
'Don Juan" at Alvin Theater
The Carnegie Tech Playors will prosent Mollleres "Don Juan" a flvo-act 
tragl-comedy, translated by Thomnni
Voort Stevens, head of tho drama 
chool ol Carnegie Institute of Tochology, and given under his direction. 
Ir. Stevens Is at present In Richmond, 
ra., arranging a historical pageant, 
nd during his absonco rehearsals aro 
being conducted by Choster Wallace. 
The same Tech cast that originally 
presented "Don Juan will again ap
pear, including John A. Willard in tho 
title role, Ross Hertz, Wilhelmina 
Gray, George Hoag, Burdette Kappes, 
Bernard Szold, Theodore Viehman, 
Joseph Lazarus, Ellen Lowe, Dorothy 
iSchell, William McAteer, Vincent Mal
loy, Arthur Lubin, Gret McAuley, 
Frederick Snider and Philip Thorne. 
The costumes are designed by Evelyn 
Cohen and the scenery by Alexander 
Wycoff.
The work of the Carnegie Tech play
ers is known favorably, not alone to 
Pittsburgh, but practically in all the 
theatrical offices of the East. Many 
students of the drama school are fil
ing important roles with professional 
companies. Last season a prominent 
director told a Tech student who ap
plied for a part that lie considered 
four years at Tech equivalent with 
four years with one of the best stock 
companies of America, and each year 
a greater number of former Tech 
drama students are finding a place in 
the professional world.
The performance will have all the 
finish of a professional production. 
The latest additions to the list of pa
tronesses are Mrs. Charles M. Brown, 
Mrs. V. L. Shrlver, Miss Minnie Sel
lers, Miss Alice Sellers and Mrs. 
James Lysle Stuart.
PRISCILLA ALLISON TO
LEAD NEW SENIOR CL
Elections were held last week
the Incoming Senior class. The rfsnlt 
was as follows:
President .................. Priscilla Alison
Vice President......................Ray Tine
Secretary .................. Grace Patt rson
Treasurer ......................Eleanor y. irtin
Senate Rep...................Hortense lurdy
Social Chairman.............Marcivi a shall
HEAD OF DEPT. OF ARTS
RECEIVES HIGH HONORS
Professor Harry Sternfiehl, acting 
head of the Department of Architect
ure, has Just received a modal and 
diploma awarded by tho Pan-Ameri
can Congress of Architects that met 
In Montevideo, Uruguay. Tho award 
was mado In recognition of work done 
by Mr. Sternfield In tho field of Ar
chitecture.
Mr. Sternfield was studying abroad 
as holder of the Paris Prize In Archi
tecture, given him by the Society of 
Beaux-Arts Architects. VO the prize 
holder he studied In Europe for two 
years, at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts 
in Paris and at the American Acad
emy at Rome While in Paris, he re
ceived several medals In judgments of 
work submitted to the Beaux-Arts Sa
lon. In Rome, Mr. Sternfield was en
gaged in research work on mosaics.
I
VAUDEVILLE TO 
START CAMPUS 
WEEK EVENTS
Show Will Start at 10:30 
Thursday Morning in Music 
Hall. New Ideas Being 
Worked Out by Lubin.
PEP  MUSIC  COMEDY
Pep. Music, DancingPep, Drama 
Comedy, PEPthats the Vaudeville 
Show. It is all to happen Thursday 
Morning, May 26tli at ten-thirty in 
the morning, at the Carnegie In
stitute. We wont say that it will 
be the best show that you have ever 
seen, but It will be the peppiest, the 
liveliest, and tho jolliest entertalnmen ever connected! \by a human 
hand.
To give the third annual Campus 
Week celebration a wonderful start 
all effort Is being made to have this 
Vaudeville so good, so peppy, that the 
following three clays of the festivities 
will contain remains of the life and 
sip that ill be featured Thursday 
morning, the opening event of tho 
Campus Week. Art. Lubin, of Arts, 
has complete charge of the morning 
and anything that has tho Lubin 
Trade Mark, Is certain of being tho 
best, the classiest. A show that will 
be a SHOW.
Twenty of the prottlest girls from 
Arts will make up the two choruses. 
Already rohoarsals are well underway 
arid the stylo that those girls aro 
gottlng in their dancilng and kick
ing,-Oli, Boyll And lean .they 
sing? First there will bo the Grand 
Oponlng, whero tho Spirit of tho Cam
pus Weolc is carriod lii, then tho big 
Opening entrance of tho choruses. 
Then will follow a stunt from tho 
Music Box Rovuo, "In tho Movioa 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
CONTRIBUTIONS NEEDED 
TO COMPLETE SONG BOOK
Carnegio Toch Is making an, urgent 
plea for a song book. There iai a 
reason. Ask any alumni what ho 
remembers most about his colloge 
life, and he will say tho songs, 
whothor ho sings or not.. Everyone 
likes to sing although somo of us 
cannot. So let's got together and 
got a few songs to publish and 
learn. It Is 0110 of tho things which 
makes school tradition.
Our school Is not vory old and has 
established only a few traditions1, but 
If wo work hard wo can bo develop
ed much quicker. Those studonts who 
play a banjo, uko, or piano, should 
try hard to think up some fitting 
tuno with adapablo words, or, just 
write tho tune and someone will 
find words to suit. Wouldnt It bo 
groat IT, in ton years from now, you 
should (happen to go to a Carnegie 
game and hear the song which you 
composod sung?
DR. BAKER AND DEAN BREED 
TO TALK AT COMMENCEMENT
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, secretary of 
Carnegie Instltuto of Technology, will 
be the Comuiencement speaker at 
Kittannlng High School, Kittanniug. 
Pa., 011 Friday, Juno 3. Miss Mary B. 
Breed, director of Margaret Morlson 
Carnegie College Is to give the prin
cipal address Saturday, June 3, at the 
Alumni Day Celebration of Randolph* 
Macon College, Lynchburg, Va.
NOTICE TO CARNEGIE MEN 
WHO WILL BE IN NEW YORK
CITY THIS SUMMER
All undergraduates who expect to be 
In or near New York City tills sum
mer, and all members of the graduat
ing class who expect to locate in or 
near New York City, please leave 
thotr names and addresses with R. D. 
Schmidt, Box 157, C. I. T. Post Olllce. 
Tills Information Is for the New York 
Clan, and will be to their advantage 
to do so.
DORM ROOMS MUST 
BE RESERVED NOW
Alterations to be Made This 
Summer. Henderson Hall 
to be Used During Summer
Present Juniors. Sophomores, and 
Fresihnien desiring dormitory rooms 
far next year, are advised to make 
reservations -before May 15, as after 
that; rate assignments will be made 
to members of next wears onterin. 
class.
Honderson Hall, will be the dormi
tory used this suriimer, thus making 
it possible to renovate McGill Hall, 
which has been in constant service 
for several years. Applications for 
summer rooms can be filled at any 
time, and assignment will be made 
on and after June 1.
Combination kitchen-dining rooms 
will be installed in Henderson and 
Welsh PI alls, and students expectin 
to prepare some of their own meals 
next year will bo required to eloct 
roonik in ono of these buidings. By 
tills plan, tho unsanitary conditions 
idaused by cooking In rooms, and the 
damages caused tho oloctrlcuil 
system wll bo eliminated, and a more 
attractive and serviceable arrange
ment. provided.
A new arrangement of blinds on 
tho sleeping porchos, soroons for 
I-Iondorson Hall, fuses and lamps to 
ibo avallaiblo without restrictions, all 
bods roennmolod, mattrossos storllized, rooms painted In Henderson, 
Wolch, and Scoboll halls, and con
tinued Work on grounds, are addi
tional Items In itiho plans for next 
year.
CONVENTION MEETING IN
RECREATION HALL WED.
Wednesday afternoon, tlio mooting 
In the Recreation Hall will bo a 
"Convention Mooting," Hortoao Pur
dy will givo her report on the Na
tional Convention at Hot Springs. 
This report promise murili Interest
ing nows, An Eagles More dlsouaslon will follow. Perhaps you havo 
never thought about going? Do you 
want to go? If youi do come to- 'tho 
meeting this afternoon and wo will 
talk It over. Eagles More In a 
summor resort In Northeastern Penn
sylvania, whore tho Y. W. Cpnforonco 
Is hold ovory yoar. This yoar It 
will continue from Juno 20 to Juno 
30. Mooting and tea, '1:30,
French Universities 
Offer Scholarships
Graduate Students Only Are 
Eligible For Award
Carnegie Men at Conference
Robert B. Nation, president of the 
Student Activities Board, and John 
T. Ames, treasurer of the Student Ac
tivities Board, and president-elect of 
the Science Senate; have recently re
turned from a Student . Government 
Conference held at Lexington, Ken
tucky. The University of Kentucky 
acted as host to the conference.
This was essentially a mid-western 
conference. Approximately fifteen 
colleges were represented, there were 
about two representatives present 
from each college.
Tlie Student Government Plan of 
Carnegie Tech was discussed and ad
judged to be fundamentally sound, al
though there are numerous details 
which can be Improved to the advant
age of the students. The Carnegio 
Tech plan of co-operative government 
between the students, administration 
and faculty was heartily endorsed.
The complete minutes of the con
ference are now being printed and 
portions of them pertaining to Carne
gie Tech will probably be published 
In the Carnegie Tartan at an early 
date,
FRIDAY LA8T DAY FOR
REPORT OF ORGANIZA
TIONS ON PROBATIONS
All organizations that were placed 
on probation this yoar by the Student 
Council have one last chance to be
come recognized.
Their reports of their activities 
must be turned into the Student Coun
cil box, 125 C. 1. T. P. O. before Fri
day noon. Any organization failing 
to turn In such a report will have to 
again petition the Student Council 
for recognitio j
The American Council on Education 
has received from the Frouch Depart
ment of Education and the olllce of 
National dos Universities francalsos, 
In appreciation of tho scholarships 
awarded to French students In Amer
ica, an offer of twenty-two graduate 
scholarships, and fellowships at tho 
Universities of Bordeaux, Lyons, 
Nancy and Toulouse.
The necessary credentials for these 
scholarships are:
1. Astatmenet of work done by the 
student. 2. Birth certificate. 3. Phototograph. 4. Health certificate from 
the college or family physician. 5. 
Testimonials from two professors 
with whom the applicant lias studied 
and from the college officials as to 
the character, ability and promise of 
success of the candidate.
The letter of application should con
tain some account of the applicants 
training and aim in studying abroad.
Applications and testimonials 
should be sent to Dr. I. L. Kandel, 
522 Fifth avenue, New York City.
All applications must in Dr. Han
del's hands by May twentieth.
Only American born students are 
(Continued on Page Three.)
C. F. BOWERS 
ELECTED NEXT 
COUNCIL PRES.
President Nation Reports on 
the Student Government 
Conference at the Council 
Meeting Last Sunday.
SELECT NEW COMM.
The Student Council has elected 
C. F. Bowers president of next years 
counoil. The candidates from the 
different schoolsLillian Cowan, M. 
M. C. C.; C. F. Bowers, Arts; L. T. 
Johnson, Industries, J. T. Ames, En
gineeringmot 'with the present Stu
dent Council last Wednesday and at 
bli regular meeting tho first of this 
week. Bowers, a student in the De
partment of Architecture, has been
C. F. BOWERS PRESIDENT-ELECT
vory active during his throo yours at 
Carnoglo. Among Ills various activi
ties are tho following: Proaidont of 
Debating Association, Socrotary Y. 
M, C. A., Asidstant. Chairman Arts 
School Ball, Chairman h'our Schools' 
Plebe Regulations luinmltloo, Stu
dent AciiivltlOH llofrrd, Assistant. 
Chairman Campus Committee last 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Y.M.C.A. Welcomes 
Junior Athletes
High School Students Urged 
To Attend Carnegie
i
Laul Halurdayt night tho High 
School athletes who wore hero for 
tho sixth annual Intor^olaolastlc track 
and field moot., wore entertained Iu 
tho Union by tiho Carnoglo Tech Y. 
M. (!. A. and Athletic Aceoclatlon.
Prof. I. S. Donnell, acting as chair
man, welcomed the students and In
troduced E. D. Johnson, (indent 
president of the Y. M. C. A. who 
gave a short talk to the ..indents. 
Frank I-Inaron, graduate manager of 
athletics, gave a summary of tho 
beginning of athletics at this insti
tution and pointed out the difficulties 
whLuli had been overcome in push
ing tho athletics of their present 
stage.
Buddy Overend, president of tho 
Athletic Association, gave tho High 
School athletes some interesting 
facts, and Bob Waddell, assistant 
coach, told thorn of the advantages 
of such interscholastlo meets. These 
track meets, he said, gave the High 
School students a good chance to 
visit and Inspect the various col
leges before they made their decision 
as to which one they would attend. 
1-Ie urged every man to attend some 
college or uni versl;ty if he possibly 
could and ipointed out. the benefits 
that could be derived from such an 
aducatlon.
Bellefonte Academy was awarded 
the cup for scoring the most points 
In the track and field meet. The re
lay cup was presented to Captain 
Meeto of the Scott High relay team 
from Toledo, for winning the mile 
relay. ,
Mr. Dominesco, Roumanian Counsel 
to the United States and student at 
(Continued on Page Four.i
Another Link Added to
Carnegie Chain Campus Week
One of the most Interesting features 
of Qualification Day Is tho welding of 
a new link on the Carnoglo chain, Tho 
link will ho stamped with tho numer
als of 1025 and represents another 
class which Is admitted on equality 
with the other classos at Carnoglo, 
Tho 1lobes havo then uridorgono reg
ulations for a year and may call them
selves true Carnoglo men.
Boforo tho school year of 10,14*1015, 
Class Day was held during Commence
ment Week and there woro four 
school Qualification Days, each sepa
rate and distinct and there might bo 
a question as to whether they were 
Qualification Days such as the one 
to be held Campus Week.
The present chain was first thought 
of and used In the Qualification Day 
exercises of March 19, 1015. To Pro
fessor J. S. Taylor is due the credit
for thinking of tho Idea and putting it 
Into practice. Professor Taylor is 
tho head of the forgo department and 
while preparations woro being made 
for Tech's first Qualification Day on 
March 0, 1015, ho suggested that a 
chain bo mado, ovory class being rep
resented by a link. The first gradu
ating class was the class of 08 and 
tho chain starts with tho link of that 
class, Professor Taylor prepared a 
chain of ton links representing tho 
ton classes since tlie class of 08.
Tho moat unique feature of tlie first 
Qualification Day was the welding of 
the Plebe link to the Carnegie clasB 
chain and the stamping of the 1915 
link. Prof. J. S Taylor acting as 
Vulcan, presented an interesting ap
pearance in his costume of ipinky 
tights, with/sandals on his feet and 
(Continued on Page Two.)
//

---------------------------------------------------

;hem now lifttB. Boys gettili
fipSilj
iiMM
CAPITAL STOCK OWNED BY P.LORILLARD CO.
PAGE TWCTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1922
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Instituto o 
Technology under th supervision o! the Student Activities Board.
Entered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh an second-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES ...........................................
Telephone, Hazoj 1110*11
WILLIAM R.,MILLS ..
i
VIC. H: STROMQUIST 
HELEN V. LEWIS ... 
L. J. WHITEHEAD .. 
EDWARD A. BRAND
Telephone, Schonley 2053-R 
Telephone, Hlland 858 
Telephone, Schonley 0070 
Tolophone, Schenloy 0070
.... Editor-In-Chief 
BuHlneHH Manager 
. Managing Editor 
.. Associate Editor 
,. Associate Editor 
..........Nows Editor
Telephone, Schonley 0070
H. F. SIMPSON.................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephone, Schonley 0070
ft. It. GUYTON..................................................................................... Photographer
D. A. DTCKMAN ............................................................................ Exchange Editor
H. D. SONNEMANN.............................................................. Advertising Manager
Telephone. Schenloy 0211 
13. L. REILLY ........................................................................  Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Gladys Bogue, M. Schumacher, H. F. Dieter, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
. C. MacKenz/lo, li. II. Lefkowltz, W. .T. Bolton, L. Hertzman, E. J. Maust, 
tt. P. Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M. H. Downos, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. 
Byoriy, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. Mattson, R. ,T. Kredol, F. D. Rossini, V. L. 
)poncor, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
II. II. Wilson, H. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, L. D. VLL.LXIN3I2 E. C. Frazier.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. M. Cooper, E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltonhausor, J. C. 
Tfajor, F. II. Allluon, A. D. Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schucker 
Uni T. J. Dempsey.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paperthe 
Managing Editor for tlio make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, If signed. 
SIgnaturo will bo withhold if desired. All news ltoms must bo In tho student 
post olllco before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OlllceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wodnosday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Olllco hoursTuesday,
NEXT YEAR'S STUDENT COUNCIL
The choice of the student body and the present Student Council 
in naming C. Fritz powers as president oJ: next years Student coun
cil could not have been better. Fritz Bowers lias been active on the 
campus and has the ability to do things and get tilings done. Two, 
other members, Ames and Johnston, have been elected and thus far 
we believe that next years Student Council will accomplish much.
Of all other tilings, we are looking forward to the action next 
year's Student Council will take on our present student government. 
Our government may look good to some who have no government, 
but we know that the present government is faulty and tho Student 
Council is the only organization which can correct the present sys
tem. We realized last year that a new form of government was 
necessary, but up to the present time no action lias been taken, other 
than to appoint a committee.
The success or failure ol! next years Student Council depends 
on what they can accomplish towards correcting our present form of 
government. We believe that next years Student Council Will do 
something definite and correct our present form of government. The 
Carnegie Tartan has and will co-operate in all matters which will 
make for all of us a greater Alma Mater.
Calendar of Student Events
BETTER LATE THAN NEVER
WEDNESDAY, MAY 10
TennisWestminster vs. Carnegie ....................
THURSDAY, MAY 11
BaseballCarnegie vs. Grove City.......................
FRI DAY, MAY 12
DanceSoph Hop.............................................8:30, William Penn Hotel
Tennis Thiel vs. Carnegie ................................................................ Her
SATURDAY, MAY 13
llasobnllCarnegio vs. Juniata ............................................................ Her
TrackCarnegie vs. Ohio State ...................................................... There
Dan00Cil-mus Club...............................................8:30, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, M AY 14
Mothers Day.
(oncoi,1^Music Department...........................8:15, Carnegio Music Hall
TUESDAY. MA Y :i(>
Tennis-"Carnegie vs. University oil Michigan....................................Here
THURSDAY, MAY 18
BasobfllICarnegio vs, Juniata......................................................... Ther<
Ban quo I;0. M. li). S........................7:00 p, in., Seventh Avenue Hotel
FRIDAY, MAY 10
Danoe- Vila Club....................................................8:30, Carnegie Union
Baseball  Carnegio vs. I tuck noil ....................................................... The
SATURDAY, MAY 20
Dance- Chemists Club...........................................8:30, Carnegio Union
Track- Carnegio vs. Westminster.................................................. T
BaseballCarnegio vs. Venn Slate.............................................. There
WIODNKSDAY, MAY 2-:l
Bnnquol/- Carnegie Tartan.........................({80 p. m., University Glut
Dunces- Inter-Fraternity Open House....................................9:00 p. m
THURSDAY, MAY 25
(Joneral Assembly and Vaudeville Show...........10:30 a. m., Music Hall
Qualification and Call.........................................1:30 p. m., Athletic Field
BaseballCarnegie vs. Penn State......................3 :80 p. in., Forbes Fiolc
Music FestAll Musical Clubs.........................7:30 p. m., Open Theater
Campus Week Dances...................9 :()0 p. m., Union, Laboratory, Arts
FRIDAY, MAY 2G
Sweepstakes..........................)........................9:30 a. m., Carnegie Course
BaseballCarnegie vs. Bethany......................................10 30 a. m., Here
TennisCarnegie vs. Buoknell.........................................1:30 p. in., Here
Open House.............................................................2:30 p. m., Mellon Hall
Mardi Gras and Carnival.................................:..........7:30 p. m.. Campus
SATURDAY, MAY 27
TennisAlumni vs. Varsity............................................9:30 a. m., Courts
Alumni Banquet.........:...................................12:00 p. in., Fort Pitt Hotel
TrackCarnegie vs. West Virginia...............2 :Q0 p. m., Schenley Oval
Womens Banquet............................6:00 p. m., M. M. C. C. Luncli Room
Rennys Place....................................................8:15, Schenley Theater
MANY TOPICS DISCUSSED I chusetts Institute of Technology.
AT C. E. CONVENTION In the afternoon the discussion was 
on Co-ordination of college training 
The 
vice
For some time past the Carnegie 
Tartan has been endeavoring to bring 
about the substitution of the words, 
Carnegie or "Carnegie Tech, for 
the common word, "Tech.
One needs only to pick up one of 
the many exchanges in the Carnegie 
Tartan office to be convinced that the 
word "Tech means no one school in 
articular. Go out of the Pittsburgh 
district, near the location of some 
other technical school and mention 
the word Tech. To you alone it 
means "Carnegie Tech and to others 
it means the technical school nearest 
to that particular locality.
It Is true that "Tech is short and 
easy to say, but the word in itself 
means nothing distinctive. Connect 
up the name of the founder with the 
school. Make Carnegie Tech better 
known by replacing the common word 
Tech with the more distinctive 
"Carnegie. If you must use the 
word use it only in connection with 
Carnegie.
Would it not be in accordance with 
these plans to say "Carnegie leading 
rather than "Tech leading in the 
tennis matches and in other athletic 
and campus relations? It is up to the 
student body to start the ball rolling 
and keep it rolling. Talk it up and 
Boon the press will come to the real
ization that they are in the wrong in 
using the common lone word "Tech 
in connection with Carnegie publicity. 
ANOTHER LINK ADDED TO
CARNEGIE CHAIN C. V/.
ARTS THEATER
(Continued From Page One.) 
describing the jobs available for 
commercial engineers.
Aibout 150' registered delegates 
from all parts of the country attend
ed the conference.
Prominent industrial leaders, and 
well known educators wore among 
tho dolegatos representing wide fields 
of activities. Tho dtecussion.s at tho 
regular meetings wore lively, frank, 
and Inspirational. According to tho 
Totli officiala connectodi with the 
conference, tho .NCIIOA of tho con
vention was duo largely to tho dis
cussions.
On Monday, the opening day, gen
era.! session woro hold in tho morn
ing and In t.lio afternoon at Carnegio 
Lecture Hall. At the first session, 
tho topic of discussion was: "Cur
rent practices In colleges and un Ivor 
sitie relating to business training
for engineers and ngineerlng train
ing lor business men. Among tho 
speakers! were. Dr. A. A. Humorschlag, Dr. W. F. Rlttman. Dr. Glen 
Swiggett, chairman of tho Committee 
on Commercial Engineering. Prof.
Joseph W. Roe of New York Univer
sity, P. F. Walker, dean University 
of Kansas, R. L. Saclcett, dean Phil
adelphia State College, D. C. .Tack- For the first time in the history
son, Massachusetts Institute of Tech- of Syracuse University, permission
nology, Prof. J. W. Callan of Harv- has been granted the co-eds to comard, and Erwin H. Scliell of Massa-1 pete in inter-collegiate athletics.
with the Industrial demand. 
speakers wereN F. B. Jewett, 
president. Western Electric Company, 
W. V. Bingham, Carnegie Tech, C. R. 
Dooley, director Personnel and Train 
ing, Standard Oil Company of New 
York, and others who spoke from the 
floor
On Tuesday morning, tho third and 
last, general session, was given over 
to a. discussion of "Civic and Social 
Training of tho engineer and buslNIR3X man. Prof. C. F. Scott of! 
Sheffield Scientific School, presided, 
and Dr, C. R, Mann, chairman of 
Operations and Training Division, 
General Staff, War Department, 
Washington, was the principal :vpoakor.
Group meetings for the discussion 
or the foregoing topics woro hold In 
various rooms In the Science build
ing, In the afternoon. Tho chairman 
of the throo meetings were F. M. 
Fellcor, vice president McGraw-Hill 
Company Inc., L. W. Wallace, execu
tive secretary, Federated Engineer
ing Societies, Washington, and Dean 
George W. Dowrie of University of 
Minnesota.
CRITICISM OF KING JOHN.
In the last decade, at least in these 
states, only one professional actor, 
the aged Mantell, has had tho courage 
o expose Shakespeare'si King John 
to contemporary criticism. Accord
ingly, one Is glad of tho opportunity 
to judge the acting value of this 
chnngeling of tho masters prentice 
period In B. Iden Paynes produc
tion current In the Arts Theater. 
Shakespeare economically hacked the 
play out of two earlier versions, and 
it is of Interest to observe how the 
piny follows, tho accepted tragic form 
Macbeth. Here, more roughly tihan 
later wo have transgression, appar 
>nt success, tho tell-ltnle fissure, re
morse, the delayed defeat, and re
tribution itself. The prentice hand 
may be traced In the infatuation with 
devices of style later abandoned, the 
alternation between the fantastic 
conceits of the torture scene and the 
Immortal accents of Constances 
grief As in "Macbeth tho play wob
bles to an ineffective close, and the 
heros domiso from what looks like 
acute indigestion is not exactly tra
gic. In any case, however, tho very 
dulnoss of some passages has tho in
terest of demanding explanation.
Dull boyond bearing the play 
would probably have boon, had It not 
hail Mr. Paynes tiroloss and crea
tive production. Not only has ho 
brought, ono cast somewhere near Ills 
tandards, but ho has multiplied his 
difficulties until actors dash in and 
out ol1 part like comedians through 
revolving doors. Tho king of ono 
night may emerge tho lackey of the 
next. This condition makes It im
possible to comment, on all tho mul
titudinous east. Both Mr. Lubln and 
Mr, Caldwell have a chance at tho 
title rolo, ami both give firm and 
Impressive Interpretations. Mr. Lu
llin' Is perhaps tlio more subtle in 
Its weak pride. Its timid cruelty, and 
Its grovelling collapse; his doatli 
Scone Is a sufficient warning against 
a. ipolsonous conclusion. To Mr. 
Roods superb Fauiloon bridge verso 
Is no obstacle and a Bolldoquy no 
King .lohn."ocP
hurdle; In him are the humor, force, 
lmpudonco, courage and loyalty of 
tiiis ingratiating part. Mr. Hoag's 
Philip is a sympathetic foil to John, 
though it is time to ask him to bo 
other than amiable; the Dauphin of 
Mr. Kappe8 Is sweet to surfeiting; 
Mr. Paquins Pandulph is an admir
able portrait of the worldly church
man to whom kings are but pawns. 
Mr. Mudgett applies his Intelli
gence and vocal gifts to Salisbury; 
he ought to give a thought to his 
stage presence, which is steadily dis
tressing. Of the lesser figures, Mr. 
Beyer is the braggart time-server, 
Austria, Mr. Willard the pliant' Hu
bert, and Mr. Hertz a dignified, 
shrewd gray-beard of! ;Angiers. On 
the plays distaff side, Constance 
furnishes an opportunity to which no 
one seems quite to rise, Miss Dice 
has the more motherly note, though 
her mad^scene is too higli-ipitched; 
Miss Floyd, with less monotony, re
veals less depth of felling. Of the 
royalty, Miss Zeiles Eleanor is a 
crafty witch; the Blanches of Miss 
Lowe and Miss Hannon vie in beauty, 
though the former is rendered rather 
ineffective by affectation in speech and 
the latter by impassivity. Miss Lissfelt is fittingly pathetic as Prince 
Arthur, and Miss Skurkay, a griefsmitten and dignified Prince Henry.
Tho use of a permanent, frame is 
Ingenious and usually effective. Tho 
scenes that, are tho most satisfactory 
plctorlally aro tho tout, tho torturechamber, tlio> walls of Anglers, and 
tho falling night at St. Edmundsbury. England evidently has a slightly 
better tasto In apparel, for tho royal
ty of Franco looks presontablo only 
In the dim retirement of their camp.
Go right down town. Before you 
forget. To order some flowers. For 
your Mother. If your cash is low. 
Cancel that date. And take her walk
ing just once. Take a tip from 
Roamer. Who knows a little. Your 
Mother never heard. That word. For
sake. At least buy a card. But don 
forget. Next Sunday is. MOTHERS 
DAY.
Who slipped up? On that Friday 
night bungle. You rant and rave. 
About our pepless girls. When you 
need some more support. By return
ing the favor. And reserving the one 
night. A year. For their own ex
clusive use. Grant the Commercial 
Ball is annual. Which is the mor 
worthy cause? As fortune would have 
it. A goodly number. Picked the 
more delightful event. Despite the 
odds. Well hand it to the girls. What 
they put across. Was worthy of 
Tech.
Sam.
boy.
Please page the "trophy
Used to be a time. When afternoon 
dances. Were considered quite ex
clusive. In the days when Seniors 
ran them. But the old order changotli. 
Giving place to tho now. (Pardon 
mo. I forgot to glvo Tenny his usual 
cinotation marks.) And now days, 
Tho only group. That hasn't suc
cumbed. Is the Ninctoonth Ward 
Club. Just what tho "T. Before tho 
word danco means. I surely do not 
know. Maybe it stands for r 
Cause I know tlio liquor dont 
Guess it must be. A second c 
To tho smoker. That C 
Smokos.
Bill Says
The following men will attend the 
R. I. T. C. summer camps indicated: 
Engineer CamiR Advanced: F. W. 
Bremher, B. M. Broudy, W. Carle, 
M. S. Downes, W. M. Fen ell, H. GFritz, P Gale, H. J. Harper, L. I.
Hertzman, V. C. Johnston, W. P.
Knight, T. F. Loughry, C. P. Marsden, R. W. Merten, R. L. MitchelL 
H. A. Neutenholzer, R. J. Quantz, 
E. G. Royston, G. E. Slye, M. F. 
Stephens, T. R. Woemley and C. B. 
Goodwin.
Engineer CampBasic: K. E. Gib
son.
Motor Transport CorpsAdvanced: 
M. R. Baum, W. R. Davis, P. A.
Herreran, L. A. Kline, H. B. Lilley, 
A. Hinderer, PI. T. McCormick, W. R.
Metzger, S. T. Menrer, J. A. Morelyr 
C. W. Nelson, E. W. Ortolf, D. H. 
Reed,''A. Ross, L. G. Seebach, F. G. 
Skeyhan, P. J. Swabek, F. W. Wert. 
M. T. C.Basic: W. M_ Gibson. 
Signal CorpsAdvanced: L. R. Al
lison, L. T. Allen, H. K. Burr, A. 
Marthens, E. L. Reilley, J. C. Siegrist, J. F. Lamb, W. J. Lyman, F. 
O. Stebbins, W. E. Tuibbs.
Signal CorpsBasic: A. C-. Hough, 
Tt. F. Riegelmeir, C. E. Siegfried.
Intercollegiate boxing failed to 
meet the approbation of the athletics 
committee at Harvard when a peti
tion to recognize this sport was pre
sented to it. Harvard is one of the 
few universities which do not have 
boxing teams.
(Continued From Page One.) 
tongs of leather wrapped around his 
legs. A leather apron adorned his 
waist, and a long, bushy, black beard 
covered his face. The afternoon of 
March i), 1915, was rainy and Tech 
Field was a sea of mud, but the cere
monies went on unhindered and for 
two hours Techs first Vulcan stood 
in the drizzling rain welding the link 
of the class of 1918.
After these ceremonies, the history 
of the chain is vague, and as the 
story goes, the chain was put in Arts 
building and was used in several of 
the plays given by the drama depart
ment. From there it was taken over 
to Science School for some unknown 
reason.
Then for two years the chain was 
hidden. Several searching parties 
were organized and every building in 
the school was examined and a re
ward was offered for its return. As 
time went on the chain was forgotten, 
until one day a chain was noticed 
hanging on one of the steel beams in 
the dome of the Union.
Whether this was the original chain 
or not was the question. The chain 
was sent to Professor Taylor and he 
identified it as the original chain, be
cause of each mark that he put in 
when he forged it. After this disap
pearance the chain has been Bafely 
guarded and only brought out for 
Qualification Day exercises. 
CARNEGIE MEN TO GO
TO R. O. T. C. CAMPS
Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
School of 
Chemical Engineering Practice
A graduate school -with stations established in industrial 
plants located ot Bangor, Maine, Boston, Mass., and 
Buffalo, New York, vjhere the field of chemical engi
neering 5s studied systematically on large-scale apparatus 
and rOhere instruction is given in the application of 
chemical and chemical engineering theory to practice.
The total number admitted to the School is limited 
and- the students, studying and experimenting in small 
groups, receive individual attention.
Before admittance to the School of Chemical Engineer
ing Practice all students must have adequate preparation 
in chemistrp and engineering. The able student can 
complete the requirements for the Master of Science 
Degree in one and a half jlears.
During the past two j)ears representatives of twentyfour colleges have attended the School of Chemical 
Engineering Practice and these men comprised over one 
half of the attendance.
For further details address:
R. T. HASLAM, Director. Room 2131 
School of Chemical Engineering Practice 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
'Best Paid Hard Work in the Wor Id
I
(Continued From Page One.) 
practice, fourteen hours athletics, 
seven hours field day 'Competition, 
six hours ceremonies.
Signal communication subjects.: 
Fours hours radio development, fourtoon hours radio proceduire, three 
hours message lecture, fifteen hours 
divisional wire net, one hour pigeons, 
five hours light line construction, 
six hours air service communication, 
seven toon hours tactical lectures on 
signal troops, and thirty-five hours 
of field exercise.
13
" S the way a ARTS HES"R"t salesman described his work. He is a college graduate and in five 
years has put himself at the very top of his 
business.
He never yet has called upon a prospect without 
a previous appointment. The best life insurance 
salesmen today work on that plan, making it a busi
ness of dignity, such as any worthy and ambitious 
college graduate can find satisfying to his mental 
needs, and highly remunerative as well.
The man above quoted is the John Hancocks 
youngest general agent. This shows what college 
graduates of the right type can do in this business, 
how they can build up earning power and at the 
same time provide for an accumulated competence 
for the years to come.
Graduation is a vital period in your life and you 
are liable to hold to the business you start in. It 
would be well before making a definite decision to 
inquire into life insurance as a career. Address, 
Agency Department.
i
s
Largest Fiduciary Institution in New England
Soo I
classy. Round hero. Colloglato. At
hlSt. Of COUrSO a ..... vr..~,a,
had to. Make fun t......................
dont mind them. Nover boon 
sldo. Pittsburgh. To .II the 1 
of day. Know what those 1....
Many a weary hour. Draggln a : 
Boaked. Suit around tho Hold. I' 
a long sigh. An a wish L 
Was just ten foot. Closer. 1 
weary hour, G rindin over the 1. 
Maltin up tho work you lost, 
figlitin for your school. Yes sir. 
about time we began. To show 
are. The men worth while. ' 
somethin besides a c 
sweater. Show your esteem. For 1 
man with the hat. Hes spent r... 
a weary hour.T
HOUSANDS of smokers have proved itand now give the verdict 
to you  Of all the other tobaccos NATURE has produced  none 
can approach the finest varieties of pure Turkish for cigarettes
None has the delicious
Though college days have their de
lights,
They cant, comparo to collogo 
nights.
MUCH INTEREST IN
QUEEN OF MARDI GRAS
(Continued From. Page One.)
Katherine Schuman.
A great number of unofficial ballots 
were found in the ballot boxes. These 
ballots do not count. The ballot pub
lished in the Tartan is the only offi
cial ballot. Vote for your Queen now 
but read the rules:
General Rules.
1. Any girl from the Senior c. 
of the Margaret Morrison or Arts 
School shall be eligible for this honor.
2. Any student may make a nom
ination, and may nominate whom he 
or she chooses.
3. The nominations shall be made 
on blanks provided in this and fol
lowing issues of the Carnegie Tartan.
*1. Every nomination blank receiv
ed shall also be considered as < 
voto for tho candidate whoso name  
mentioned on blank.
5. Tho nomination blanks or bal
lots may bo deposited In ballot I. 
which will ho placed in each of t..- 
l'our schools.
C. Contest closos at 7 p. m., May 
2-1.
Tho girl who rocolvos tho highest 
number of votos up to this time shall 
bo adjudged tho winner, and shall 1 
crowned Queen of the Mardi Gras.
Use following ballot:
QUEEN OF TECHS MARDI GRAS
NOMINATION AND BALLOT COUPON
Whqn this coupon is properly filled out and placed in a ballot box, it
shall count as one vote for Miss....................................................................
FLAVOR of the finestTurkish 
None gives the ENJOY
MENT of the finest Turkish 
None will SATISFY you as 
will the finest Turkish 
None but the highest grade 
and personally selected 
 * tobaccos is used in
MURAD.
To enjoy 1009b pure Turkish 
at its VERY BESTto reach 
the PEAK of Cigarette Quality 
 you have but to smoke 
MURAD
Try MURAD today and
Judge for 
Yourself/ 

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
I PLAID ATHLETICS
KELLY WINS 100 YD. DASH
Kelly crossing the line in the 100-1 afternoon. Lockwood finished second 
yard dash in the Carnegie-Marietta followed by Humbert, both of Carmeet at the Schenley Oval Saturday ! negie.
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
LAST WEEK
Athletic achievements of the past week were line! Two tenuis tourna
ments and a track meet were won, while a highly successful Inter-Scholastic 
track meet was liehl.
May the good work continue in the future!
The two tennis victories place Carnegie Tech in tho lead Cov the TriState Championship. So far, Allegheny seems to be tho Plaid's closest rival. 
Their 6-0 defeat of West Virginia, compared to our 5-1, places them in the 
limelight.
In watching the tournaments with Wasli-Jeff and West Virginia we 
cannot help but comment on the great number of foot-faults allowed to 
pass uncalled by the referees. This is unfair to yourself and to your op
ponent. Why not demand that the referee call you down for every breach?
Don Potter went home Easter and returned to school with three broken 
ribs. Hard luck, Don, we were thinking youd make a good showing in the 
Pentathlon!
CARNEGIE ANNEXES MEET
WITH MARIETTA 123-18
The Marietta College track and 
field athletes proved no match for 
Carnegie Tech in their dual meet 
Saturday at Schenley Oval. The 
Skibos were winners, making 123 
(points, while the visitors were ac
cumulating 18.
Lack of competition, and a heavy 
track made the time of many of the
events rather s:o\v. All the track 
events were monotonous processions 
of Carnegie Tech men, with now and 
then a Marietta representative plac
ing third. The Ohio men got only 
one first during the afternoon. The 
shot-put was woa by Jolly, with a 
distance of 36 feet three inches.
This is Mariettas first attempt at 
varsity track athletics, which is no 
doubt largely accountable for her 
showing Saturday.
Golf and Sport Oxfords
Approved styles by experi
enced golfers and every golf 
er knows that his shoes are 
a might important part of his 
equipment.
Style No. 6040  Smoked 
Horse, Tan Trimmed, Fi
bre Soles. Rubber Heels.
Weve Fitted Feet For Fifty Years
Style No. 6041Tan Calf.il 
Mahogany Saddle, Duflexj 
Soles, Rubber Heels..........I
P. LUDEBLIEhL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWNEAST LIBERTY
Doggone the rain!
BENCHWARMER SAYS:
lXH5uESDANCiNG ACADEMY
X CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
t Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year.
X BELL PHONE
$ Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
*l* A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
| SKI BO INN |
y. Kemodeled and -j
X Enlarged J
WRI TEOMHi
k WHOLESOME |
food :i
V >; Served at best prices 
| CIGARS CANDY |
-------------------------------------
MISS OLEARY
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
Ladies and Mens Clothes. 
Call Schenley 389.
3933 FORBES STREET
HARRYS
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable
prices. 
3719 Forbes St.Oakland
A TECHNICAL SCHOOL CONFERENCE
May 2Sth found Graduate Manager Haaren attending a discussion at the 
Drexel Institute of Philadelphia between representatives of the various 
technical schools of the country. The initiative was taken by the Drexel 
Institute in order to foster a conference of technical schools.
This publication is not entirely in accord with the idea, but holds the 
opinion that such a conference might, with limitations in its scope, be a 
great thing. In other words, it is not thought that such a conference would 
be good for Carnegie Tech, to the exclusion of another conference between 
the-great colleges and universities of Pennsylvania, as recommended about 
three weeks ago in this column, i. e., between such schools as Penn State, 
Pitt, Penn, Wasli-Jeff,. Bucknell, Lafayette, Swarthmore, Lehigh and Carnegie 
Tech. But a conference as advocated by Drexel Institute would be highly 
advantageous in arranging Inter-Technical School track meets, tennis tour
naments and basket ball tournaments for the technical school champion
ships.
Mr. Haaren in his remarks at the conference acted entirely in accord 
with these views, and it is hoped further and definite steps will be taken to 
form such an association. It will, no doubt, work advantageously for the 
schools concerned in fostering better friendship, closer relationship, and 
more equal eligibility codes between the great technical schools of the 
United States.
Bellefonte Acd. Wins 
Interscholastic Meet
Wilkinsburg High Second 
Scott High Wins Relay
Our baseball cripples are progressing nicely. Chipper Smith is still 
in bed, but expects to be out this week. Warricks ankle might permit him 
to pitch tomorrow. Weiss may hobble around the campus a bit before the 
week has passed.
OHIO STATE WRITES:
"It is with great pleasure that the student body of Ohio State bids wel
come to the Carnegie Tech track team.
Our desire is to make your visit as enjoyable as possible. We will 
be glad to furnish you with any available information that will expedite 
your trip such as securing hotel accommodations, rates, entertainment or 
transportation.
May a good time be had by all.
This is surely a show of good spirit and sportsmanship by a groat
university whose track team meets our track team this week!
Thanks to you, OHIO STATE! We know well have a grand and glori
ous time in Columbus!
NEW BASKET BALL RULES
The National Board of Basket Ball Officials have changed the foul rules. 
Hereafter the foul line will bo extended across the entire lloor, fifteen feet
from the end of the court, and tho player shooting tho foul will bo allowed
to take up his position anywhere on this line. The penalty for a personal 
foul will be two free throws each successful throw to count tho usual ono 
point. Penalty for a technical foul will be the loss of tho ball, which will
be given to the opposing team out of bounds.
These changes appear capable of going far in speeding up tho gamo. 
It takes away from some of our whistle-blowing referees their opportuni
ties to continually stop tho game for foul shooting.
Changes like this can work out because tho ethics of basket ball players 
are such that they will not commit breaches intentionally. Almost all fouls 
are done in the course of spirited play, and it is furthermore tho desire of 
almost all players to play the game straight and square.
Changes were also made in dribbling. Only one step Is to bo permitted, 
and the player must get rid of the ball before his back foot leaves tho 
floor. Also any held ball within tho foul territory Is to bo tossed up on tlio 
foul line.
Taking as a whole, the changes should bo a bonoilt to the game.
One team everybody 
can make
A FTER the big game, if you dont need a box of voice 
_Z~~i lozenges theres something wrong. A hoarse voice is 
evidence that you were covering your position on the bleachers.
The harder the game the harder it ought to be to talk 
afterwards. Your Ataboy and Line it out buck up a 
fagged nineand so your shouts give you the right to rejoice 
in the victory, because they helped win it.
This spectacle of a grandstand full of men fighting for 
their team is one aspect of a very splendid sentiment 
college spirit.
When you show college spirit you are doing a fine thing 
for your college, a fine thing for the men around you, but a 
finer thing for yourself. You are developing a quality which, 
if carried into the business world, will help you to success.
The same spirit which keeps you cheering through a rainy 
afternoon will in after life keep you up all night to put 
through a rush job for the boss.
The same spirit which makes you stand by your teams 
through thick and thin will find you loyal to your shop or 
office, always ready with a shoulder to he wheeleven if it 
isnt your own particular wheelgiving suggestion and active 
help and a word of good cheer, once again earning your 
right to rejoice in the victory.
In businessas in college make it a good, snappy Yea, team V*
Astern Electric y.Iji
Since 1869 makers and distributors of electrical equipment
Number 17 of a series
FRENCH UNIVERSITIES
OFFER SCHOLARSHIPS
(Continued Prom Pago One.) 
eligible for those scholarships and 
fellowships.
The scholarships and fellowships 
are open to both 111011 and women un
der thirty, who aro grnduatess of an 
accredited collogo or university, and 
who have a fair knowledge of French.
Tho academic year begins tho first 
weok of November and ends In Juno.
Included in tho scholarships tho 
University of Bordeaux offors two to' 
American students which include 
board and lodging. The holders of 
these scholarships will be lodged' in 
the Maison des Etudiants and will 
board at a neighboring lycee. It also 
offers free tuition to eight, other Amer
ican students. The subjects recom
mended for study are Political 
Science and Law, History and Geo
graphy, Tropical Diseases, French 
Language and Literature.
The University of Lyons offers a 
scholarship of 5,000 francs, the holder 
to spend one semester at Lyons and 
the second semester either at Lyons 
or any other French university.
The University of Nancy offers a 
scholarship of 5,000 francs and speci
fies that the first holder be a student 
in the faculty of Science, who shall 
have completed three years of ad
vanced study in the United States.
The University" of Toulouse offers 
two scholarships covering tuition, 
board and lodging and eight scholar
ships carrying free tuition. American 
students will be especially interested 
in the following institutes of the uni
versity: (1) Chemistry; (2) Elec
trical Engineering; (3) Agriculture; 
(4) Hydrology; (0) Provencal and 
Romance Philology; (6) French 
studies.
There is a possibility that further 
scholarships and fellowships will be 
offered at the Universities of Strassburg and Paris. This announcement 
is published, however, in advance of 
final information in order that candi
dates may have ample time to file ap
plications.
All successful candidates will re
ceive a 30 percent rebate on (passage 
over and back (approximate cost of 
passage to the Htudent $85.00, one 
way).
The office of the American Univer
sity Union at 1 ruo de Fleurus, Paris, 
is also the headquarters In Franco of 
the American Council 011 Education 
and of the Institute of International 
Education, and successful candidates 
are recommended to make use of its 
facilities when they are in Paris.
Bellefonte Academy with a total 
of 31 points w o 11 C a r 11 ogle 
Techs iS'ixth Annual Inter-Scholastic 
Track and Field Meet at Schenley 
Oval last Saturday. Wilkinsburg High 
followed closely with 25 while Pea
body was third with 22 and Johns
town and Schenloy were tied lor 
fourth honors with 20 points each. 
'Scott High of /Toledo again carried 
off the relay trophy by winning tho 
one mile relay by a good margin.
Thirty-one schools were entered 
and nearly all managed to place at 
least one man in some event. The 
track was somewhat slow due to rains 
in the last few days and consequent
ly no new records wore set up. How
ever the competition was close with 
110 very high individual scores. 
Cowan of Schenley by winning the 
100 yard dash and the broad jump 
took first honors in the individual 
scoring. He was closely followed by 
his teammate, Kimbo of Schenloy 
and Gosnell of Uniontown each scor
ing nine points.
On account of tlio large number of 
entries several. heats had to be run 
in a number of tho events particularly 
the dashes and the hurdles. The 
finals in these brought out some 
classy sprinters and hurdlers giving 
the spectators a few real thrills at 
the finishes. The 111 llo relay proved 
an exciting batle between Scott High 
and Johnstown. After the first half 
mile the Toledo boys wont out in 
front and maintained a comfortable 
lead to tho finish.
Tho meet this year is tho most suc
cessful so far both in point ol tho 
number of entries and in tlio class of 
competition. Future seasons should 
seo this meet one of tho biggest cin
der events for secondary schools hi 
tho section.
On March 23, the baseball squad 
of Indiana State University embark
ed on a 14,000 mile jaunt to Japan. 
The entire student body sounded 
a farewell to the greatest athletic 
invasion ever attempted by an Indi
ana team.
200 H.S. Athletes Here C.W. 
Guests of Athletic Assn
The Athletic Association is to issue 
invitations to nearly two hundred em
bryo athletes in surrounding high and 
preparatory schools to como to Carnoglo Tech during Campus Weok and 
soo our school when it is bubbling 
ovor with pop. A neat program ol' 
events is to accompany each invita
tion so they will know what Is coming 
but they can never surmlso tho won
derful time in store for them. All tho 
expense to them will bo tho carfare 
for the mimes of these men are to he 
turned over to the Inter-Fraternity 
Council which will place thorn in tho 
various fraternity houses and theso 
fraternities will see to it. that, nothing 
i3 loft undone which will help to cre
ate a good impression of Carnogio 
Toeli and its teams, as wo play Ponn 
State and Bethany in baseball, track 
meet with West Virginia and Bucknell 
and tho Alumni in tennis. As tho ath
letic future of Carnegie Tech depends 
upon such moil as these, it is abso
lutely necessary that the fraternities 
and student body co-operate and show 
that kind of good fellowship which 
will make these new men feel at. home 
and want to come to Carnegie Toch.
Tennis, Baseball, TrackAthletic Events of Week
Watching Our Opponents.
Stato Collogo ...10Bellefontaino
Academy ... 1 
State Collogo ... 2Waynosburg .. 1
Stato College,.. .12Bethany......... 0
Bethany ............ GSt. Vincents. .12
Juniata .............. 6Buoknell ........ 1
Grove City........ 4Pitt .................. 3
Tennis.
Michigan ........... 1U. of Cal.......... 2
T rack.
Michigan ...........90Ohio Stato ...45
This afternoon tho Plaid racquotoers meet the tennis men of 
Westminster 011 the home courts. 
With .every man playing his custo
mary good game, unless Westminster 
is a dark horso, tho Tartan not mon 
ought to keep their record clean.
Tomorrow afternoon a baseball 
gamo with Grove City will break up 
tho monotony of the day. Grove City 
has beaten Pitt twice already this 
season, which indicates that tomor
row' match will bo a battle royal.
Friday afternoon tho tennis team 
plays Theil. This should lengthen 
tho string of victories for Carnegio. 
Saturday, tho track team goos to Ohio 
State for a dual moot at Columbus. 
The Buckeyes were walloped by 
Michigan at Ann Arbor Saturday, and 
tho Plaid cinder men are entertaining 
hopes to do the same. Saturday aft-. 
ornoon the baseball team plays Ju
niata on the home lot. While losing 
to Bethany by a close score, Juniata 
beat Buoknell Saturday 6-:l. That in
dicates that they know how to play 
baseball.
CARNEGIE TENNIS MEN
VICTORS IN TWO MATCHES
In spite of the continued wet weath
er the well-drained courts permitted 
the Tartan, tennis team to play the 
matches with Wash-Joff 011 Friday 
afternoon; and West Virginia Satur
day afternoon. An unusually largo 
crowd witnessed tho victory of our 
team over Wash-Joff in a 5-1 match, 
while the track moot drew many of ' 
the usual spectators from seeing tho 
strong West Virginia racquoters bow 
to a 5-1 defeat..
The Singer Pen 51 Gift Shop In tho 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
0 n e.Ad vor tiaomen t.
VACATION OPPORTUNITY 
We want a few live men ovor 24 
for Summer Work, presenting to 
Teachers and School Boards new Edu
cational Publication, approved by 
Pennsylvania State Department of 
Education. Accepted applicants train
ed and financed. See
QUARRIE & COMPANY 
Lycoum Building Pittsburgh
Do You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by correspondence. Inquire 
how crcdits earned may be applied on present college program.
31ir Imuwsihf nf QHjiragnI
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
AUFHAM1ER & EVANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
B. K. Elliott Company
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Drawing Materials and Surveying Instruments, Blue Print Papers 
Artists Materials, Optical Goods.
Photographic Supplies and Cameras.
. Highest grade developing and printing.
126 SIXTH STREET (Opposite Alvin Theater)
and Cloths,
PITTSBURGH
olleqe
k, iIts the kind of loyalty 
thats ready to light at 
the drop of the hat. Only 
high and worthy things 
evoke such a feeling. Men 
have something of the 
same loyalty for their 
favorite cigarette, Melachrino, the one cigarette 
sold the world over.
Remember that Melachrino is n master 
blendofonlythefinestTurkishTobaccos 
as originated by Miltiades Melachrino. 
Egyptian cigarettes are simply those 
that originated in Egypt. But the to
bacco is what you want to know about 
and if its Melachrinoit's right
cMelachrino
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over 

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MAY 10, 1922
-----ALUMNI PAGE
The Smoker was well attended and 
there was barely room for all. The 
fine spirit and finthulsaHm shown 
augurs well for a brilliant future for 
thlh new society. Ah an exproHflion 
of appreciation, Pr0f0HB0r Leeds and 
Dlrcjcitoi) Morris w^re unjanjImouHlyf 
elected honorary members,
VAUDEVILE TO START
CAMPUS WEEK EVENTS
PRES. OP S. I. E. SPEAKS
AT OPENING 8MOKERThird Alumni Banquet 
Fort Pitt Hotel, May 27CLAN NEWSDancing
Every Saturday, 9 P. M. 
THE 
RITTENHOUSE 
  Giles.   Couple, $2.20.
Direction 
The Sextons
(Continued From Page One.7 
Words Mean Nothing, then more 
dancing by the girls; a cabaret by 
the Margaret Morrison girls, A snap
py act by the Arts Plebsand so on 
for an hour and a half, finishing with 
Obbio Newman in The Campus 
Week Blues with a full chorus and 
a large surprise ending that is 
amounting to a large sum in money 
to obtain.
Any of the students who have any 
good stunts and would like to be in the 
big showthere is'yet time and room 
in the program for you. Just get in 
touch with Lubin in Drama and ar
range a place. The full announce
ment of the program wil be printed 
latter.
(Continued From Pa go One.) 
Idealod men as leaderH of preHont and 
future progress, together with the 
Importance of choosing worth-while 
associates, while a student, were tlie 
main topica of LXL. address.
TO YOU 
who arc Juot aosumlng the 
rcoponsibilltlcs of life, the 
experience, Interest and 
kindly advice our officer are 
glad to put at your cervice 
can be made to mean much. 
We cordially Invite you to 
come to our bank that wc 
may get acquainted.
Capital and Surplua 
$12,000,000.
A New 
Roman Stripe
Everybodys wearing stripes 
but heres one thats dif
ferent. A noticeably goodlooking Roman stripe in 
three colours, on corded silk. 
Ask to see this tieits a 
winner.
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
The O akland 
Community House, 
3904 Forbes street, 
is maintained by 
educational funds 
of the Methodist 
Episcopal Church 
for the purpose of 
promoting Chris
tian fellowship 
among students of 
every creed. It is 
open from 9:00 A. 
M. to 11:00 P. M. 
every day.
JOHN WARD sport 
oxfords ar worth see
ing. Particularly good 
ar our Scotch grains 
imported direct from 
Martins oGlasgie. 
And the prices ar moi 
erate as always
Shown by
GEO. M. WELDE 
At the Fraternities 
MAY 22
Many Class Re-unions C. W.
HEMEY
CMVAfSFIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh. 
SUNDAY SERVICES
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School...............11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ...........................8 to 9
All enuitie Cheney Cravats have 
the name stamped in the neckband
SOLD BY'
C. A. HEIMERT, 3614 Forbes Street 
CHAS. 0CH, 3605 Forbes Street
WALK IN
Tech Barber Shop 
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes
Fred Fargel, Proprietor
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
General Offises : 121 'Duane Street 
New York City 
Stores in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Philadelphia
mam
Y. M. C. A. WELCOMES
(Continued From Page One.) 
Carnegie Tech, gave a black board 
talk on various sketches of college 
life. Alabam" Newman brought 
forth the usual applause which al
ways follows his singing.
These entertainments were follow
ed by wrestling matches'. I-Iuge 
'Sprifikle (200 pounds, G feet 2 inch
es) holder of the lightweight cham
pionship of lihe. world, wa's chal
lenged Iby "Red Cummings. In a 
spectacular match, assisted by Ref
eree "iCy Comfort, Cummins won 
the lauirels of victory, and was 
crowned lightweight champion of the 
Universe. Trechsel of Alabama, how
ever, challenged him Immediately. 
So even was- this match that time 
was called with neither gaining a 
decision.
In boxing, Jim Campbell, Science 
'2-1 (?) met Hagan of Arts College 
In three rounds. In tills spirited bout 
Referee Comfort found the referee 
'business not so comfortable.
After punch, ice cream and cake 
wore served a la army style, mo
tion ipictures of the bombardment of 
ex-German submarines! by the U. S. 
Air Corps proved very entertaining. 
This concluded the evenings pro
gram.
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
The Church of Friendly People 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School........... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service..........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service............8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
NewestCreation
George Blair, Science '13, Is buying 
10 cigars. Its a boy.
C. F. BOWERS ELECTED
NEXT COUNCIL PRESIDENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
year, 1922 Thistle Board, Delta Skull. 
Bowers Is a man of pleasing person
ality, has lots of push and will make 
a good man .for the position.
President Nation made a brief re
port of his trip to the Student Gov
ernment Convention at the Univer
sity of Kentucky. He reported that 
the representatives of the different 
schools were very much interested 
In Carnegie's iHysein of student gov
ernment; With the exception of one 
school; much older than ouirs, Carne
gie had the best organization of any 
of the schools represented. The time 
was pent In discussion of the vari
ous problems coming up In the 
schools. A11 automobile trip through 
the blue grass country ended theconvention.
Bleach, Helen Reed,'Mills wero ap
pointed to look Into the selection of 
appropriate insignia for the membeVs 
of the present council.
Peppermint flavored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
melts In your . 
mouth, leaving f 
the deliciously g 
flavored gum S 
center to aid g digestion, \ 
brighten teeth \ and soothe % mouth and throat.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
otOMhe
iTRAW HATi
Davies & Hughes
Dependable
Hatters and Mens Furnishers.
3615 Forbes 
Schenley 5468-M. Next to Strand Theater.
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUET
HATS OUR IDEA in making CAMELS  the 
Quality Cigarette.
Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! Its 
the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes 
fresh and full flavored for your taste. Heavy paper out
sidesecure foil wrapping inside and the revenue stamp 
over the end to seal the package and keep it air-tight.
And note this! Theres nothing flashy about the Camel 
package. No extra wrappings that do not improve the 
smoke. Not a cent of needless expense that must come 
out of the quality of the tobacco.
Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on merit 
alone.
Because, men smoke Camels who want the taste and 
fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly blended. Men 
smoke Camels for Camels smooth, refreshing mildness 
and their freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.
Camels are made for men who think for themselves.
The fun begins Thursday, May 25, and ends (alas!) Saturday, May 27.
MEET YOUR PALS AT THE ALUMNI BOOTH AND BANISH 
DULL CARE
Living alumnae will not miss the following events:
VaudevilleCarnegie Music Hall,..,..................Thursday, 10:30 A.M.
Music FestTech Open Air Theater...................Thursday, 7:30 P.M.'
Dance in Union, Langley and Arts Foyer. .Thursday, 9 P. M. to 1 A. M.
Open House at Mellon Hail...........................................Friday, 2:30 P. M.
!!!! MARDI GRASUnion, Langley & Arts, Friday, 9 P. M. to 2 A. M. 
BUTSATURDAY IS THE BIG DAYFOR THE WORKING GIRL! ! ! 
ALL TECH ALUMNI LUNCHEONFORT PITT HOTEL12 Noon 
$1.75
Then at 5 P. M. attend the FIRST BANQUET TO BE HELD BY 
TECH WOMEN (for all ALUMNAE AND STUDENTS), M. M. LUNCH 
ROOMCost, 1.50 with Campus Week Tag; ?1.75 without Tag. 
GRAND FINALE AT SCHENLEY THEATERS: 15 P. M.4-Act Play
Did they lather with Soap
stone in the Neolithic Age?
CAVE men had whiskers. Then one day 
John W. Troglodyte hacked them off 
with a hunk of sharp bronze and discovered 
-that men had faces.
Faces are more popular than whiskers. 
Williams helped. The J. B. Williams 
Company made the first real shaving soap 
ever manufactured in this country.
Jones 77 used Williamsno other. And 
now Jones 22usesone of thefinest Williams 
Shaving Soap that Williams knows how to 
make-Williams Shaving Cream.
Lather? Rather. Rich 
and thickandquick. Once 
over is usually enough if 
you use Williams.
Youll like the 
smooth, cool feel of 
your face afterward. No 
complexion soap is more 
wholesome.
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONt-Secretary, A. C. Sprague, R. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, 0. 
BOSTONSecretary, Mary Wight, Harris Hall, Deaconess Road. 
BUFFALOSecretary, W. H. Rieger, Sizer Forge Company. 
CHICAGOSecretary, J. J. Kennedy, 3748 Wrightwood Avenue. 
CINCINNATI;Secretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, Merten G. Kingsley, 17817 Cannon Ave. 
DAYTONSecretary, L. IX. Siegler, 2505 West River view Avenue. 
DETROITSecretary, II. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co. 
ERIESecretary, H. A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Street. 
HARRISBURGSecretary, Ritchie Lawrie, 206 Market Street. 
HARTFORDSecretory, L. M. Bloch, 304 Garden Avenue. 
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E. 
.) 011NSTOWN Acting Secretary, R, W. Wallace, 641 Horner St. 
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inez Peacock Pille, 865 East 
Fifty-first Street, Los Angeles, California.
MONONGAIIELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 121 "Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 431 Riverside Drive. 
NORFOLKSecretary, W. n. Sauds, Bank of Commerce Building. 
PHILADELPHIAPresident, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company of Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building. 
PITTSBURGHSecretary, J. W. Batman. Carnegia Institute of 
Technology.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTONSecretary, Herbert W. Haller, 450 Munsev Bldg. 
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott 65 East Earl Avenue.
M. M. Clan Secretary, Elizabeth Stevenson. 722 Bryson Street. 
WATCH TjftE CLAN COLUM/ EV'ERY W^EK
Try it 
tomorrow
Williams
Shaving CreamR. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Win.ton-Salem, N. C.
234848484823532323235353532348232323235323532323485323
