BIG FOUR 
TRACK MEET
PITT STADIUMSAT.
ANNUAL 
i TARTAN BANQUET 
i SCHENLEY. THURSDAY
VOL. XXII NO. 33CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1928
TO OFFER WEEKS COURSE 
IN METERING AT
In co-operation with several public \ 
utilities in the Pittsburgh district, a j
CARNEGIE New Versions of Age-Old Questions
Given in Senior Achievement Tests
'TARTAN STAFF TO
TWO WEEKS SURVEYING IS
OFFERED AT TWO PERIODS
j The two-weeks course in surveying HOLD BANQUET AT
j (E-20S) will be offered at two differ-1
ent periods in the summer session,! HOTEL SCHENLEY
STUDENT COUNCIL 
MAKES CHANGES IN
Pi FRF RFfrlli A TIO NS one-weeks special course for electric j1 LLUt IVLUU^n 1|metermen will be given for the fourth If Prythagoras crossed the 40-yard Then the students got tired trying ' to lake it convenient tor students
---------------- consecutive year at the Carnegie In- ^ne what is the cube root of j to gu6ss the design in the answer key, I The two periods are June *1-16 in-j ----------------
j stitute of Technology beginning Mon- an icicle?" This and similar ques- - either passed out ami linnded in 1 elusive and September 5-1S inclusive ,,  .Freshmen to be Freed hrom day, May 21. The work this year will tions formed the nucleus of examina- I The June period is not opon to stu-1 oiielDy McMllllon, Business
he conducted by the Department of ; tions which the Seniors were request- , 1,K'lr aper*> 01' simMted s' dents in electrical engineering. The I M f ^ .
Electrical Engineering. eel to attend last Monday and Tues- clutched tlieir pencils and got eccen-1 stll(lent8 ,jle chemical, commercial. &  ^amPUS Weekly,
The course is open to any one eii- | day. For six straight hours each day j trie. Fully fifty per cent of groups electrical, mechanical and' metalluv-1 Preside as Toastmaster
gaged in electric metering or related j they crossed and dashed till the Mill- j sitting near each other seemed to gical engineering and for students in 1
: " ork- Th*' "rk wln be conducted tiplex dictionary looked like a farce 1 , h, meUld and results were I heating and ventilating and in elec-> I by series of lectures by educators and I collection. Such questions as 'What; - - ---  -
Restrictions; Admitted to Clan 
Before Winter Recess
VOLO.O T7-NTT?rYDr'Rl\/rP'Tvrr ! b>r series f lectures by educators and j collection, oucn questions as vvnat< | trie equipment and construction.STRICi tUNi? UKt/U.MJir'l 1 specialists trom operating and maiin-! happened in the fo&th centuryimoi-ei surprisingly unifojm. The attention of students in the
5 I facturing companies, demonstrations j or less?* to be answered by a plus  the second day of the examina-jTO LAST 3 MONTHS
Plebe Prom to be Held Before 
Thanksgiving; Class Fights at 
Opening of Term
TO REWARD EFFORTS
,, . , ... courses mentioned above is called to | WITH ACTIVITIES KEYStion, work was much more productive  , . 4  , , . , . xxx^ x u1 the fact that those who plan to take
E-20S in June must file a summer
session application blank in the Reg- Editor to Appoint Members of Next
Years Tartan Staff and
Throughout the collegiate world of 
today there has been a growing feel
ing against the enforcement of regula
tions established in previous decades. 
This movement began to make itself
in the use of equipment, and class pe- j or a minus were most correctly guess- .
riods. A manufacturers exhibit of | ed. The events of the fifth century j / results because then the most brllmeters and'metering devices will be j were the most popular, for then, it j liant students decided not. to -show up. lKm ul(lua tll
held in connection with the course. was discovered that Kafirs had six j Jujubees and Oh! Henrys were the j8trars office not later than Mondav,
-----------------------------legs and banana grew on^'stocks. W.e ;phief articles of reinforcement. j jviay 21.
p  p. . thought they disappeared from them. ; fews of the wiser individuals went j __________.___________
LOlTlDanV -Ai tngineers i The purpose ill having the examina- 1 h'me and read Slcippy and Jerry on . , .
r ;  tions during the Senior year is evi- j the Job. Then scores could be no , AflrmniSlTaflOn /nflKPSi
W j n firct HnnnrQ in dent. During this year chances are hotter than they had been the previ- j
greatest that the student will havej^hs day. Changes In Official!"
Discuss Plans
Annilvil r1 A m npff ti f* n had most oC bis correct High School Luncheon intermission prevented i Villi Uul VJ U 111 PC 11 11 U II information forgotten. Added to this. | the Seniors from finishing the tests
felt at Carnegie about six years ago ( Second Place to Company E; ! l ange
j his college learning will have com- ; in short order. After wheeling each! Calendar For 1928-29
. pleted a most excellent mess. The j other around in buggies, etc., they I
and ]of information was so wide  dashed madly up to the Hut
and has grown in sentiment since ,
that time. Traditions are restrictions ; 
placed upon the students by the stu- j 
dents themselves., and freshman eus- | 
toms are regulations set upon the
Staudt and Seibert Re
ceive Sabres
that anyone knowing perchance a j gargled a few dozen Crib .papers,' Date of Fall Opening- Set For
I choice bit of information such as the i leaves from the EncyslOpedia, and lit- 1j whereabouts of Caesar during off j tered a few enthusiastic Wahus!
| hours was fully entitled to make his i Then they proceeded once more to
j little cross close by the side of the ; Show the world what collitch can do.
The R. 0. T. C. finished its activities Question. The advantage of such a Anyone suffering from indecision 
plebes oy those who have been fresh- for the year wth the annual Intercom- ""><> can be readily seen, for ; about certain answers to questions is
wnr. ,f the students feel that i competitive drill which took tatteUcs reveal that scores have , guaranteed another trial next year.
September 26th; Easter 
Vacation Shortened
the traditions have outlived theirI place last Thursday 011 the Cut.been raised one or two points because j in most cases, the answers will stand
! Company A, commanded by Cap- i of the choice of material.____________. approved as read._____________________
original purpose and now appear al- 1 tain Staudt took first 'honors in the ^
most ridiculous in the view of lack of  drill, but was hard pressed by Cap-j Y.M. C.A. DELEGATES GO TO CARNEGIE TO PAY HOMAGE
enforcement, there is no reason why 1 tain Seiberts company, Company B,
Good news for the undergraduates. 
Next, fall classes do not, begin until 
Wednesday, September 2G. This will 
give the students nearly four months 
during the summer In which to work
On Thursday evening May .17 at 
:00 P. M. the annual Tartan ban
quet. will be held in the French Room 
of Hotel Schenley. All persons on 
the Tartan masthead are Invited and 
urged t:o attend. The toastmaster 
will be Shelby McMillion, business 
manager of this year.s Tartan. No 
arrangements are being made for a 
speaker for the evening, but members 
of the staff and guests will be asked 
to say a few words.
It, is important that all members 
of the editorial, business, and circu
lation Staffs attend the banquet as 
plans for next year's Tartan will bo
or play. The change In the date of j announced and discussed. Of parwlth the student body, many
a change should not be made. (which placed second. The Engineers , EAGLESMERE CONFERENCE 1 0_HER MRS! PRESIDENT opening will no doubt prove popular : tictilar Interest will be the presenta
... .'succeeded in Avrestling the covetedThe Student Council, reahzing that | ^ frQ| the hoU, Df thelr |
a far from desirable condition has ex- j rjVals in the Signal Corps. The Sig- Carnegie Y1
isted at Carnegie, has made the first | nal Corps Company, however, took I
changes in plebe regulations which ' third thereby beating the other three <
have been *= :ade for a number oI | Engineer Companies.
Planning New Memorial in Honor of Dr. A. A. 
Feature For Freshmen Week Hammerschlag to be Placed in
Next September Administration Hall
years. In the first place plebe regu
lations, as now in effect, will end
The margin of victory was very
oC j t.ion of activities keys to members 
of the staff who have served either 
two or four years; silver keys being 
the reward for two years work and 
gold keys for four years service. An-,r
i small. Company A was first with a The Carnegie Y is now making | Carnegie Tech is to pay homage t.o
i percentage of S1.83 per cent, arid. | plans to ' send student delegates to ; the memory of its first president, Dr.
with Christmas vacations, and the en- ( Company E was second with a per-, Ule Eaglesmere Conferenti? which will I Arthur Arton Hamniersehlag. with a 
forcement up to that time will be ex-  centage of S0.67 per cent. The other | be hel(, at Eaglesmere, June 12 to June memorial tablet which will occupy a
tremQJy strict. The^right t give hair- companies finished in the lolloping 22 inclusive. At a recent cabinet place of prominence In Administration | v*** c*OS(i. one w
cuts will be retained by the regula-*''i ^r,'' ^ompaily ^ Signal Corps, R- j meeting the matter was brought up I Hall. According to present plans, the year. Thus, desp
A' Ranso,i: Capt.; Company D. R. F and discussed. At the same meet- tablet is to be alllxed in the first panel 'opening, there wltions committee to serve as an incen-  /'nnnpiiv Pnnt  i*nmi .n , 1 j . , ..  , .  1, . L-onneuy, i.apt.. ^ompa..^ , bieci lng the work tor next year was out- ; beyond the Registrar s office. The or
rive to obey the regulations. A Quali-. Woods, Capt. ; and Company F, Clyfjpk rinea so -uh to give the new- cabinet  r,>- ,,w> *' 
fication Daywiii be held just previous. 1 McKee, Capt. The percentages of I memi)rs some idea of their duties,
to the Christmas vacation, at whici^j tlieSe companies were quite close, but for the coming year. The Carnegie
time the plebes will be freed from' Companies A and E were considerably . <.Y js planning several events for
. ,. . r,-n , ahead of the rest. I next year which are entirely differentregulations and admitted into the Car-; ^ . 0. . L, ,, ,  , ,1 Captain Seibert, and his lieutenants, than those which have been put 011 
negie Clan. According to the pro- , s A McMullen, C. W, Brooks, and for the students in past years.
posed plans there will be a big trial , j. M. Barker, deserve much crediti <pile Eaglesmere Conference will be:j committee in charge of securing it is | urda.v, December 15, and classes will other words to have the staff of the
held just before Qualifications Day, ' for putting up such an outstanding a conference of young people, gatli- confident that Mr. Nebel will t reato 1 be resit mod Wednesday, January litt Weekly cover and publish the
and all plebes who have disobeyed ' (,ri11 with a company made up en- ere(i together to discuss may per-i P|ece of sculpture which combines j Consequently, the poor folks from new 011 tin? Carnegie campus and to, ... . . . , . . , : tlrely of freshmen. r"repulations will be brought to judg
ment. For those who miss this trial
whom frowned upon Carnegies tra
ditional early fall opening.
Contrary., to general belief, there 
will be an Easter Vacation next year,
but it. will bo considerably shorter j other announcement of note will bo
than in previous years. Another I111- j the naming of the students who will
portant change In the schedule Is the | HOrvo 011 the staff of next years Tardate, of closing next summer. Classes tan
will close, one Week later than llils j T|,o staff which will ho announced 
despite the late date of 011 Thursday will be In charge of the
opening, there will lie approximately issue out on May 22 which will ho
the same number of school days in the last issu*1 of the 1027-28 Hohool
y Tor the tablet bns^ilready 1)mmi I 1928-20 as In other years. year. Another plan which tlin staff
placed with Mr. Rerthold Nebel. for- The Thanksgiving vacation begins WU discuss will bo t'h& su, ,>isClo%i 
pier hpad of the Department of Sculp- ! on Thursday, November 20, and con-1 that the staff of the Carnegie Tartan 
ture at Carnegie, who has since at-1 tliiues until the following Monday. I cooperate with the staff of the Pitt,
talned great distinction in the present | Christinas vacation will eompi'lso .18 , Weekly and as a jiart -of t.he -program
day art, world. The nature of the tab- : days and the students will have throo to have the schools trade staffs for
let has not yet; been revealed blit the | week-ends at homo. It begins 011 Sat- 1 Mn Issue somet ime next year. In
plebe companies,
. There were three tinent questions with the hope that Kin^Ple tllBnity and exquisite beauty, | 0(hnr cities will be forced to travel on have the staff ol 
D, E and F. j everyone will be benefited and broad-1 Atting qualities in a memorial by ( Now Years Day. 1 cover the news..1  ...s ..1 , . I,. n.nntnm.. I .... n . . MM. I..................Ill I... .It..i The Lieutenants serving under Cap-! ened bjr the discussions of these j which Carnegie Tech is to commomo- j The first semester exams are This wll....................................................  . .............  ..................  .......
or miss Qualifications this penalty (ain staudt were Charles R. Taylor. | questions. The hotel where the dele-! rate t,le name of Its first president. | Bchedttled to begin Friday, February tlcablllty and the staff will be aslced
of the Carnegie Tartan, 
of the TMtt campus, 
be discussed as to its pracwill. be imposed during the month of . D. W. Deffenbacher, and James' D. gates will be lodged is a beautiful
January. A plebe prom or some simi- ! Phillips, who cooperated faithfully , building with a lake in front and
lar event will be held near Thanks-1 throughout the year to turn out a j woods behind. Eaglesmere is. located
i winning company and much of the : near Muncy, a small town in the north
The committee in charge, which is 11, and the following Friday, February ^ to help cooperate In solving problems
composed of several members from I will mark their close. The second , which will arise with the many Imtlie Board or Trustees, has made ay- semester will get under way 011 provemonts and innovations which
rangements to have the tablet com-1 Thursday. February 14. and will con-  will be installed during the next, . . . . j . HIKI Wl UIVJ iltUI I U 1 U , .1 , I. Olili. IJ L.#.. I J 111 111 \v 1  \ J 1 111 j .. ' ------................... (giving time. In addition to the above , credit for the training of the com- Central part of Pennsylvania. Be-! ple,(1 l)y next. Carnegie Day and to j tinne with only one short vacation,  school year,
changes it has been suggested that' panv goes to them.tween 500 and GOO students will at-1 ina^e the unveiling of it a part of the ! until Friday, June' 7. The so-called
at least two strenuous class fights i After completion of the drill there I tend the Conference. Last year, the | amiiifi 1 Carnegie Day program.. j Easter vacation begins on Thursday,
be staged shortly aller the beginning ' was a battalion formation and Cap-! delegates came from many of the j The name of Dr. Hamniersehlag is ( March 28, four days
of the fall term.
> For the past two years the en-forcement of plebes regulations has ia reward for their feat. The sabres . burgh College for Women, Cornell,' . 7 , , , .  < I *.** XIXN3C AR3RE3 G SATSS U T
been extremely lax arid the purpose  were Presents from the Reserve Bucknell, Westminster, and many : n ca Schools with its handful of stu- . from May 25 to June I, and for the : In the United States,
of the regulations has largely failed. '0fficers Association of Western ! others. ! nts  1 ie iff080 ... 11 1 un^ergraduates from May 20 unt il to add this feature this section will
r was a pattanon rormation an. t;ap-1 delegates came from many of the .......... ......................... * . ivm.iun o, iwur uuys an
 ; tain Staudt and Captain Seibert were ; leading colleges of the Middle Atlan-!one whl(,h has been closely associated .Classes will resume the 
..presented with handsome sabres as tic States such as Penn State, Pitts-1 w*th Carnegie I ecli s history arid Tuesday, April 2.
.a reward for their feat. The sabres burgh College for Women, Coiniell.  rapid gi'owth from the Carnegie Tech-, Einal exams for the 
One of the improvements consider
ed for next year Is the issu lng1 of a 10 
after Easter. I page rotogravure section with llhis- . 
following ! I rations and photographs of views 
j and happenings on the campuses of 
Seniors are  fifty leading collegos and universities'
If it is decided
It is hoped that the strict enforce-1 Pennsylvania and were presented j Ttie program during the conference j horlv
merit of  plebe regulations over ajhy the president of that organization, j at Eaglesmere includes: the Mornlni
short period, coupled with two real! Q^lonel Oepe-vv. At the same time the watch for corporate devotions, Inter
tute of Technology with its 2,500 of a June 7. The later date of opening  be published each week during the
ment of plebe regulations overa, by the president of that organization, j (l, n"g;;"ee" imd^r'th Morang Zerie taUs^Tvou : T*!' i'1" 0n"b,C 11,0 ^ SCl001 ofjg
 Colonel Depew- At the samR "me ,hR Watch for corporate devotions, Inter- ,  S  l > J" lleUl" ' WOrk f0r(Continued on Page Two.)class fights, will serve to do much to 1 "hming guidon, which is a permanent j est-Discussion groups in charge of spe- ___________________
bring about unification of the fresh-1awar(? was Presented to Sergeant  ciai leaders, Conference Worship,! _ '
man class and install in them real . Moyr of Company A. This guidon is j Platform Addresses 011 the signifi- CrSfldClI KCDt By LOUnCil 
Carnegie' spirit. Next years sopho-! PJovl^ed thrpugh the courtesy of the | cauce 0f religion for our needs and 
more class will be on trial to deter- Pittsburgh Chapter No. 38 of the  on sociai conflicts in our generation, 
mine whether regulations at Carnegie j National Soiuourners. The National j sports, Poetry, Music, Informal hours 
shall exist or be discarded. The sue- \ Soujourners is a  masonic society of : for discuasioll witb leaders, Personal 
eessfiil enforcement of the: new-regu-J men wIl are servinS or who have j.intervi:e.ws with leaders, and days ofserved as commissioned officers in retreat for group meditation and disj some one of the United States Serv- j cussion 
j ices.
As Executive Secretary
much longer 11 Some of speakers will discuss
j period this summer. This will, no 1 the value of the college paper, its
j doubt, prove very popular and the . duty in serving' the students of the
j administration will probably continue 1 college where It is published, and
' wherein it may be improved.
The banquet will start, promptly at
this new policy in succeeding years.
Y. W. C. A. TO HOLD DINNER
TODAY IN M. M. REC. HALL
lations means that Carnegie will still 
prserve those traditions which serve 
to instill in students a school spirit.
6:-00 P. M. in order to permit some 
of the staff to fill engagements later 
in the evening, and it is necessary 
that everyone be on hand at the
j At the last meeting of the old Stu- i ----
I dent Council this year,  held Tries-! The last Y. W. C. A. Discussion
, day, May 8, a number of matters dinner will be held today in the Mar-j stated time. The committee urges 
ission. 1 were settied up. The question of an garet Morrison Recreation Hall. Tills ] that everyone who is a member of
Colonel Depew was accompanied by {f . mong ^le ^ues ons 01 con', Executive Secretary for next year meeting will be similar to those held the Tartan staff be present and asa fellow Soujourner, Major Dannen-J eience_aie many campus problems . wa{; discussed at length, and a motion earlier in the season. Miss Green will  sures them a delightful meal and an 
hauer. The Commander of B. F. W. j 1 on ..nuet on age Two) finally passed that Mr. Crandell be speak, and as it is the last gathering entertaining and enjoyable evening.
! retained in this capacity and that bis of the season the installation of of- j -----------------Alpha Chi Alpha To Hold 
initiation Of New Members | The judges for the competition j Tau Beti Pi Officers
________ were; Major Horsefall from the Uni; was also present for the drill.
: contract for 1928-1920 be drawn up ficers will be held , after the dinner. VY/ A A Rnarrl FlPCfQ NPWand presented to the Executive Com- The customary charge of 25 cents for VY.M.rt, Dual U LICLlo INLWFor Next Year Elected mittee. The salary of the Council ! the dinner will be assessed.
treasurer was also much debated and 1 The women 011 the campus are
' finally raised $10,' making the salary again reminded of the Conference: at.Members for Coming Year! versity of Pittsburgh, Lieutenant The Alpha Chi Alpha will hold ini- j-Kirsted from the "U. S. Engineer
tiation of the members called on Qual- ( office in Pittsburgh, and Sergeant
incation Day, on. Tuesday from 4:30 j Higgins fronv the University of; Pitts- At their last meeting, held Thurs- j for next years Treasurer $30 a month Eaglesmere. Any one may go to The Womens Athletic Associate 
to 6:00 in: the Faculty Club Room* of j burgh. It was interesting to note the ^ *^ay ^lay the tenth, Tau Beta Pi, for ten months. 1 Eaglesmere as-it not only affords ex-( Board, for next- year, as recent
Margaret Morrison. The girls called ; agveement in ratings given the vari- j men s honorary, elected their new of- i Mr. Seibert reported the total sales j cepfcional opportunity for hearing
are Sara ' Elizabeth Wonders, IJelen |'0ljs companies by the different, ficers for the coming year. The re- ou Campus Week tags as amounting -many well-known speakers but also
Reed, Elizabeth Sehlesinger, and | judges. The drill was judged on a 
Rosemary Ban*. This has been the \ basis of 100 per cent, according to 
second call this year due to the large j the following items: 
number of girls eligible for this honor. , t General Efficiency of Co. ComAfter the initiation a dinner will be j commander .....................................10
held for all the members. Many of | 2. General Efficiency of Platoon
the Alumni are coming back to this Commander .....................................10
dinner. Alpha Chi Alpha is quite j 3. General Efficiency of Noncoms 
proud of its constantly growing alum- (Continued on Page Two).111 which now number 35. This year | ------------------------------
will be the last year for seven of the JHETA TAU TO HOLD BUSINESS
most active members, who have prov
en to be of great worth on the Car
negie Campus. Among those who are 
to join the Alumni, are: Josephine
Clark, President of Alpha Chi Alpha; 
Jean Roy, Managing Editor of TriPublications; Margaret Russell, News
Theta Tau, national professional 
engineering fraternity will hold a 
business meeting Thursday, May 17, 
in room 53 Science Building. This is 
the first regular meeting since the 
Editor of the | Tartan; Florence Me- spring initiation and it is important 
Laughfin, Betty McFadden, Marjorie that all members of the fraternity be 
Snodgrass and Louise Koenig. I present. Refreshments will be served.
MEETING THURS., MAY 17
formation 011 the subject.
APPLICATIONS FOR SMITH
SCHOLARSHIP DUE MAY 18 j maimgor, Dorothy
suits of the election are as follows: | to $2,228, which is considerably a cheap and worth-while vacation. 
President, T. L. McCombs, vice presi-J lower than the sales last year", prob- (Application blanks may be had from 
dent, A. W. Miller; treasurer, G. W. j abiy due to this years shortened ! Miirjorie Snodgrass or any member 
Wile, corresponding secretary, W. G. Campus Week. Recommendations | on the Y cabinet. If you dont know 
Carson; recording secretary, J. W. | f0r the new Council were discussed, j about Eaglesmere, anyone on the CabLuorma. j especially the election system which inet will be glad to give you any inTau Beta Pi will lose quite a few j does not seem to function very well
men by graduation this year, and it j at present. Council discussed the
was decided at the meeting to honor petition system of nominations and 
them by a social function. A dinner j the mailing system of elections as 
and theater party was thought to be | possible improvements next year, and 
most appropriate. j decided to recommend these plans to
The faculty dining room will be en- their successors, 
gaged for the farewell banquet to be j a list of complimentary tickets for 
held Wednesday evening, May 16. | the Margaret Morrison Freshman 
Following the dinner, there will be a J Boat Dance was presented and aptheater party. Just where the latter \ proved. It was voted to reduce the
will be held has not been decided yet. | Student Council administration tax
but it will probably be at the Alvin for the Womans Scholarship. Benefit
from $150 to $50, because of the 
nature of the project.
Theater where the King of Kings 
is billed.
iation 
recently
elected, is as follows: President,
Dorothy Roy; vice president, Gladys 
Connor; secretary-treasurer, Patf 
Montgomery; publicity manager, Sally 
Hulick; Margaret Morrison represen
tative, Catherine Collins; Arts repre
sentative, Marianna Deane; tennis 
manager, Florence Bright ; bowling 
manager, Helen Whitehlll; rifle man
ager, Frances Guy; swimming man
ager, Evelyn Goldenson; archery 
 manager, Dorothy Hill; basketball 
I manager, Jeanette Willson; volleybaU 
Applications for the George TI.! manager, Grace Jarvis; baseball manSmlth Scholarship, ($100.00) which FN lager, Mathilda Kr I stuf el.
iwarded annually to somo member 
of the Junior Class of the Engineer
ing College by the Alumni Associa
tion of the College of Engineering, 
may still be obtained at the AumnI 
Office, 200 Gymnasium Building. All 
applications must be returned before 
May 18.
'Ihe officers of the hoard w#e 
elected bv the girls of Margaret Mor
rison and Arts School and the man
agers were elected by the retiring 
board. Installation of officers will 
take place at the Carnegie Play Day 
exercises to be held in the bowl thisFriday.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MAY 15. 192.
! CLAN NEWS
CLEVELAND
The Cleveland Clan in planning to 
have a dinner party thin evening, May 
15. The affair will be the resumption 
of activities after a brief period of 
social inactivity. It is being held at 
the Bohanon and Haines Restaurant, 
on Huron road at 0:15 oclock.
From all prospects the party will 
be a great success; and we hope to 
hear about It by next week.
NORTH NEW JERSEY
Word comes from the North hiew 
Jersey Clan that they Intend to hold 
a meeting some time before the mid
die of June. The clan will have as its 
guest at that time Mr. John L. Porter, 
one of trustees, and a great friend of 
Carnegie.
Definite news of the (late and place 
will be given by the clan as soon as, 
possible.
Dept. Of Architecture Is 
Given Medal by Beaux Arts
For performing the best work 
among the universities and colleges 
entered in the competitions of the 
Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New 
York, N. Y., this year, the university 
medal of the French Society of Certi
fied Architects has been awarded to 
Hite ; Department of Architecture of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, ac
cording to an announcement. This is 
the first year in which the award has 
gone to the Pittsburgh institution.
In' reporting the award to Professor 
W. .Frank Hitchens, head or the De
partment of Architecture of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, Edwin H. 
D'enby, president of the French So
ciety of Certified Architects, wrote as 
follows:,1 take great pleasure in announcing 
to you that after a thorough study of 
the work done in the past year by the 
students of architecture among the 
various competing universities and 
colleges in the competitions of the 
Bhaux Arts Institute of Design, the 
Architectural Department of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology has merited 
the medal which Is awarded every 
year by the American group of the 
French Society of Certified Architects 
known as the university medal. The 
medal will be engraved and sent Jou 
in time for presentation at. your com
mencement. exercises.
Alpha Chi Alpha Alumnae 
Invited To Tea Tonight
The date and place for the Alpha 
Chi Alpha teu, to which alumnae 
members have been invited, have been 
definitely chosen. It will be held this 
evening at the Carnegie Inn, popular 
rendezvous for affairs of this kind.
The purpose of the tea, which will 
be> more in the nature of a banquet, is 
to wind up the initiation of the mem
bers who were selected Campus
Week, and to get all the alumnae 
members together.
The fraternity, which has been
steadily gaining prestige on the cam
pus during the past year or two, now 
has an alumnae membership of thirtyfive, and it Is planned to have as many 
of these at the tea as possible.
A little program of entertainment
has been planned, one of the numbers 
being a special stunt to be presentc/il 
by the newly Initiated members.
Students Hold Mock
Democratic Convention
Seniors Are Landing Jobs With
Companies Despite Hard Times
Just about this time of thef year 
the Seniors are very busy choosing 
the company with which they expect 
to affiliate themselves in the future. 
For tiie past few months many com
panies have come to the school to In
terview the candidates for graduation, j 
and have chosen their men.
The following list will give an idea 
of the diversity of companies the 
Seniors are getting in to. Alumni 
can assist "materially by sending in 
names and leads which might be used 
in placing some Senior.
Chemical.
McVay. Willard 8 Lazote, Incor
porated, Wilmington, Del.
Staudt, Ambrose W.Dupont Rayon 
Company, Wilmington, Del.
Tuboku-Metzgcr, C. E.Teaching in 
English school, Sierra Leone, British, 
West Africa.
Commercial, 
i Albrecht, Wm. P.  Westinghouse,
SouthLaughlin Steel Corporation 
Side or Ellwood.
Geist, Paul M.Professor Trinks.
Siemon, Wm. A.Babcock & Wil
cox, Beaver Falls, Pa.
Snow, Francis A.Carnegie Steel 
Company, Youngstown, Ohio.
Wiebel, Arthur V.Koppers Com
pany.
Chemistry.
BaJla, WilliamMclntosh-Hemphill, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Metallurgical.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
10 MEET IN PITTSBURGH
Preside at Sessions; J. D. Keller 
to Speak
A former professor of Carnegies I Dr Baier and prof Trinks Wil]
Architecture Department had an in- j 
teresting exhibit of water color paint- j 
ings and pen drawings in Asheville,,
North Carolina, the week of April 23. j .__________
He Is Douglas D. Ellington, whose j For the flrst tjme since mi the 
work has received favorable comment Ifrom many different countries. American Society of Mechanical EnThe outstanding feature of the ex- j Slneers will hold its animal spring 
hlbit was a pen and ink measured j meeting in Pittsburgh, May 14-17.
drawing of the church of Saint Tro- | The William Penn Hotel will be their
phine in Aries, France. This picture j headquarters during the four-day
received the award of Mention Hon- \ period. Seventeen years ago the soSikes, Alfred W Graduate student I orable at the Paris Salon, as well as | ciety established their headquarters
--Western Electric Company. high awards in London and Glasgow, j jointly in the Carnegie Music Hall
Printing. | It traveled over Europe and was ex- an(j the Schenley Hotel.
Jackson, John W.Jackson Printing hibited in most of the large cities of j The meeting will open at 9:30 a.
Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Kascsak, JohnEdwin H. Stuart 
Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.
McLeod, Ingram B.Lanston Mono
type Company, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Building Construction.
Allen, Earl F.Newport News ShipCOMPANY A ENGINEERS
WINS FIRST HONORS IN
ANNI \L COMPFTITION
fCHiVtlnm'd Froir Pace One.)
Command or ...................................10
4. Steadiness and Military Hear
ing ......Vi....................................
fi. Close order drill .........................00
Many Interesting eorolatlon can 
ho formed 'from the rating given the 
Company commander and the rating 
glVon' the company, etc.
Aft Hr I,ho presentation were mn.de, 
I bo" captains of all the companies 
joined the reviewing party and 
watched their bnttlilion In Its final 
parade of the year.
Drill Is over for the year for all 
meii In th'o lt. O. T. C. except those who 
failed to attend the Campus Week Re
view and those plebes who failed to 
turn out for the scheduled Saturday 
morning drills. Uniforms of the men 
who do not have to attend these 
make-up drills should be turned in to 
Sergeant Henderson at, Machinery 
Hall as soon as possible.
SENIORS MAY STILL ORDER
RINGS AT ALUMNI OFFICE
Smith College, at Northampton, 
Mass., is to be the scene of a conven
tion, the like of which has never be
fore been held. It is to be a mock 
Democratic convention,' composed of 
i collegiate . representatives from all 
those schools concerned!.' The conven
tion is backed by the,Eastern Inter
collegiate Convention (jouncil, who is 
extending Carnegie a most hearty and 
cordial invitation to all students who 
are interested to come as delegates.
There > is a two-fold purpose behind 
the convention. First, a regular nom
ination of the Democratic ticket will 
take place, which will be followed by 
the organization of a permanent non
partisan intercollegiate circle with the 
purpose of facilitating co-operation 
among college political groups, arrang
ing for exchanges of Ideas, dissemina
tion of information making for better 
citizenship, such aa material regarding 
the registration of college men as ab
sentee voters. This organization will 
also do everything possible to stimu
late intelligent, and forward-looking 
interest in public questions among the 
college men of America.
It is the thought of those interested 
in the success of this convention that 
there exists today a need for a vigor
ous forward looking party; that the 
tradition of the Democratic party, par
ticularly of the leadership of Woodrow 
Wilson, is Progressive and Liberal; 
and that the party has been In the 
past and should increasingly befc'ome 
the agency of courageous Progressive 
leadership to serve the country by re
storing the idealism of tlie New Free
dom and the lost vision of the war.
Electric and Manufacturing Company.  building & Dry Docks Company, NewPorter, Iiomer C.Armstrong Cork j port News. Va
The Alumni Office, 200 Gymnasium 
Building, is still taking orders for 
degree rings. Rings ordered before 
May 15 and paid for in full will be 
ready for commencement. Orders 
for rings may be sent in any time 
after graduation and the customary 
$4.00 deposit is required on aTl orders.
Will Anyone 
Accept This 
Challenge?
Columbia, S. D.Sept. 9, 1926
Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:I am a veteran of the Edgeworth army, still in active service.I make this claim, challenging all comers, to have smoked Edgeworth 
and nothing else but Edgeworth (when it was possible to got it) for a longer period than any other person within the scope of your territory.I have smoked Edgeworth for twenty-one years and will soon start on the twenty-second.Ill admit to having tried othor brands, includingso-termed high-class, high-priced blends and mixtures, enough to appreciate and satisfy myself of the superiority of Edgeworth.In all these years I have never had one can of,Edgeworth that varied in 
flavor or otherwise.Yours very truly,
(signed) J. J. Roberts
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
I CARNEGIE D'v "#>*** crTO HER FIRST PRESIDENT
(Continued From Pace One.) 
beginnings In 1003 and served as head 
of the institution till 1922. He then 
left his duties as president here and 
I became director of the Industrial Re
search olllco of Major General George 
I W. Goethals. From 1923 until the 
time of bln death last, July, ho was 
president of the Rosoavcli Corporation 
I of Now York, I lls various activities 
and accomplishments have given him 
a, national Importance as well as a 
local one and It Is with a feeling of 
! pride and gratitude that loyal mem
bers of the Carnegie Clan1 will stand 
1 to pay tribute to his memory next 
Carnegie Day.
Y. M. C. A. DELEGATES GO TO
EAGLESMERE CONFERENCE
(Continued From Page One.) 
which might interest Carnegie, stu-. 
dents, such as: Do fraternities make 
| for inequality of opportunity, the Pros 
and Cons of compulsory chapel? Is 
voting for the best man only a myth?
I Are you your brothers keeper? 
j School or individualwhich is first 
and many other religious and com
munity problems.
The complete Y. M. C. A. cabinet 
I for next year is as follows: Stewart
! C. Ralston. 1 president; Robert H. 
Wehrie, Raymond C. Johnson. Wil
liam G. Carson, Tracy R. Stevens, 
Alexander M. Orr, Francis J. Downs, 
Williani McNeill Latham Flannigan, 
Thomas Lippert, and Henry L. Bun
ker, Jr.
Ithaca, N. Y.We can make an air
plane certainly as large as any prac
tical requirements man indicate, 
stated Professor W. F. Durand, an a 
lecture on aeronautics given at Cor
nell university recently. There real
ly is no answer to the question, How 
large can we make an airplane?  he 
went on to say.
Durand explained that, as the size 
of a plane is increased, the lifting 
surface is squared while the weight 
Is cubed. Because of this, there is 
a limit, to the size, but there are va
rious ways of getting around this pro
portion so as to make a plane that will 
answer all practical purposes, Durand 
said.
Works Management.
Brandwyk, Arie C.Babcock & Wil
cox, New York.
Burnside, Merrill D.Bailey Meter 
Company, Cleveland, Otiio.
Callister, Murray Y.  Frigidaire, 
Corporation, Dayton, Ohio.
Davis, George H.Hoover weeper 
Company, Canton, Ohio.
Dean, John W.Firestone Tire & 
Ruhber Company, Akron, Ohio.
Diffley. Joseph F.  International 
Motors Corporation, Allentown, Pa.
Downer, Andrew W.International 
Motors Corporation. Allentown, Pa.
Lacock, A. J.Firestone Tire & 
Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio.
Manby, Wm. H.Armstrong Cork 
Company, Lancaster, Pa.
Maurer, Ralph A.Erie City Iron 
Works. Erie,, Pa.
McMillion, Shelby A.  Firestone 
Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio.
McNair, John W.Newport News 
Shipbuilding & Dry Dock Company, 
Newport News, Va.
Turner, Gilbert H.Timken Roller 
Electric and Manufacturing Company. I Bearing Company, Canton, Ohio.
White, John E.Westinghouse Elec- j Wendlandt, Vernon L.  American 
trie and Manufacturing Comnany. Telephone & Telegraph Company, 
Fitzsimmons, David P.  Duquesne New York City.
Company.
Sheppard. Dorr M.Northwestern 
Mutual Life Insurance Company, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Steinmeyer, Wilmer I-T.  McBetlv 
Evans Company, Charleroi, Pa.
Watson, Frank E.Crucible Steel 
Company, Midland. Paa.
Electrical.
Baughman. John S.Westinghouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Company.
Bernardi, Wm. R.  Westinghouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Company.
Brice, Milton R.Cutler Hammer 
Company. Milwaukee, Wis.
Cole, Neil D.Westinghouse Elec
tric and Manufacturing Company, 
KDKA.Chicka.pee Falls, Mass.
Hill, Buryi R.  General Electric 
Company, Schenectady; N. Y.
Holmes, Richard E.Westinghouse 
Electric and Manufacturing Comnany.
Putt, Donald L.  Flying Cadets, 
Dayton, Ohio.
Trice. Thomas W.Duquesne Light 
Company.
Vinogradoff, Eugene, Westinghouse
the United States, till now it has final- ; m. Monday morning, May 14, with the
ly arrived in the permanent home of I council meeting and conference of loits creator.  caj sections delegates. Monday aftMany of the water color paintings ernoon, Tuesday, Wednesday and 
are scenes of Pittsburgh, such as the j Thursday mornings are to be given 
Monongaliela river, Ohio river at I over to simultaneous sessions at 
Pittsburgh and Pittsburgh mills at ; which theories and problems relatnight. These have been exhibited in  ing to that branch of engineering will 
Pittsburgh, New York and Philadel- (be discussed. The discussions will
phia. j be led by prominent speakers among
Among Mr. Ellingtons Work has  whom is Professor J. D. Keller of our 
been the designing of various build- j faculty and assistant to Professor 
ings in Asheville, including the City Trinks,1 head of the department of
building, the First Baptist Church and 
the new senior high school.
Mr. Ellington, who is a native of 
I North Carolina, attended Drexel Insti' tute, University of Pennsylvania,
Mechanical Engineering. Professor 
Kellar spoke at the Monday after
noon session on The Flow of Heat 
Through Furnace Hearths; Profes
sor Trinks, himself, will preside at
Pennsylvania Academy of Arts and j ^le morning session, Wednesday. Inthe Ecole des Beaux Arts of Paris. ! sPection trips have been planned for 
He is a member of the Associated Ar- j Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday 
tists of Pittsburgh, the Philadelphia | afternoons to tlie plants of the U. S. 
Sketch Club, and the Society of Beaux j Steel Corporation, the Westinghouse 
Arts Architects of New York, and the ! Electric and Manufacturing Company 
American Institute of Architects. He iand the American Window Glass 
has received many prizes and honors, Company respectively.
holding the distinction of being the 
only southerner who has received the 
Rougevin prize.
NEWMAN CLUB TO HOLD
ANNUAL FORMAL FRIDAY
Next Friday evening, May 18, the 
Newman Club will hold its annual 
j formal dance at the Knights of Co-! *n mind and will afford an excellent
The meeting is of particular inter
est to the students at Carnegie be
cause of the large number who are 
taking Mechanical Engineering and 
because of the active part taken in 
the conferences by Professor Trinks 
and Professor Keller. Moreover the 
Wednesday morning conference has 
been planned with student interests
Light Company.
Mechanical. 
Brownstein, Raymond -
Industrial Education. 
Stewart, RalphTeaching Ellwood 
City HiKh School.
Ye Editor Says:Carnegie Seniors Complete 
Achievement Tests May 7-8Now that Campus Week is all over __________
and settled we have nothing to worry !
iboul but the finals. j The Se,,lor achievement tests were
Well, one more Tartan, and we sign I conducted in the Union May 7 and 8. 
off lill September again. Yours trulisl Monday and Tuesday, in very unwill then be one of you, and wl( 'favorable weather. , 
turn over the wprrips.nf,|,be...alnnwY*. page to lill, ju.i'or assistant? J>
We have been rather
lumbus Ballroom, Fifth and Bellefield 
avenues. Advance information points 
to a very good dance and a large 
cvowd is expected to attend. The 
music for the occasion will be fur
nished by Tommy Intesos Ramblers 
of New Kensington, Pennsylvania. 
Besides the orchestra, there will be 
several additional entertainers, who 
will provide amusement during the
opportunity for ..those electing Me
chanical Engineering to broaden their 
outlook since they are all invited to 
attend. Director Jewett will speak at 
this session 011 Industrial Co-opera-, 
tion in Education. There will be a 
Student Branch Luncheon on Wed
nesday at 2:00 p. m.
Among the outstanding topics that 
will be discussed are: Fuels and
intermission, and also while supper | Flow, Management, Seamless
is being served. I Tubing, Hydraulics, Glass, Machine
The committee is putting forth ! ShoP Practice. Applied Mechanic*
every effort to make this' years dance 1 .Educat]r;Z2,..  Stathe best ever held by the, Newman tlon Pwer, Alloys.
Club. Novel . program favors have! r- Thomas Stockholm Baker will 
been decided upon and an excellent |act as chairman during the Session
V Tbc test* were coniiuciea, accorrj-1 supper is promised. Dancing will when Engineering Education will be
ing to a proposal first made- in Au- J last from 9 till 2 and $5 will see youdisappointed i 11,,.
by the lack of news coming in from *ust 192G- by the Pennsylvania Joint byJh,e doorthe clans. We suggest an organized Commission to the Carnegie Foundpublicity plan next year, and the ap
pointment. of a correspondent, whose 
duty it shall be to Inform the Tartan 
ind alumnus of the clans doings.
We, missed all. the old faces here
during Campus Weeknot: even Dan 
Cassidy or Tilly Tllbrook were around.
Yes, we are collegiatesome of the 
upperclassmen have been noted rol
ler skating and flying kites during the 
Inst week. These children must have 
their diversion.
Are you preparing for Homo Com
ing day, at the Pitt-Tech game in the 
fall? We're going to regain the city 
championship, you know, so bo sure 
to be present.
CARNEGIE FACULTY INSPECTS 
WATER PURIFICATION PLANT
O11 last Saturday, May 12, a number 
of the members of our faculty visited 
the Pennsylvania Water Company at 
Nadine and the purification plant of 
the same company at Poketa road. 
The trip was made mainly to inspect 
the new equipment of the Pennsylva
nia Water Company, especially the 
furnaces which burn pulverized coal. 
The group assembled at the Penn-Liucoln Hotel at Wilkinsburg and held 
a luncheon before they made the trip. 
The luncheon speakers were Mr. 
George S. Davison, Vice President of 
the Pennsylvania Water Company; 
W. V. Hawley, Chief Engineer, and 
Chas. L. Fox, Assistant Superintend
ent of the same company. The fac
ulty of all the colleges in Pittsburgh 
were invited to attend tlie luncheon 
and the inspection trip, as guests of 
the Commercial Development Depart|ment of the Philadelphia Company.
tion of Teaching, that representatives 
be appointed to conduct a study of 
Relations of Secondary and Higher 
Education in the State of Pennsylva
nia. The proposal was deferred until 
otliei; studies, then before the Enquiry 
Division of the Foundation had been 
completod. Since, the project has re
ceived careful study, and the Founda
tion was already prepared to offer 
for consideration, a plan by which 
seniors were tested.
The Seniqrs were excused from all 
other classes during the examination 
days. The warm weather made the 
tests quite strenuous for the seniors 
and together with the broad expanse 
of questions of which nothing had 
ever been heard, constitute a great 
physical strain.
The questions covered almost 
every subject ever given in a college. 
The seniors said that the examina
tions showed how limited and narrow 
ones education must be, knowing 
only a few subjects! well, and a mea
ger smattering of everything else.
Dr. Bright was in charge of the 
tests, with the psychology department 
assisting. The tests lasted for six 
hours each day, three in the morning I 
and three in the afternoon. The re-j 
suits will be published in the future, 
and will form a sound base for com
parative rating of- schools of higher 
education.
Tickets may be secured at. the door 
the evening of the dance, or in ad
vance from any member of the com
mittee,. which includes: AI Miller,
William Henderson, Sally Hall,
John Boyle of Carnegie.and
University of Illinois.The Univer
sity of Illinois is said to have the 
largest college band in the world.
discussed.
For the benefit of the freshmen 
who intend taking the course in Me
chanical engineering, it might be well 
to announce here that the course in 
Heat (relating to Mechanical, Engin
eering) will be explained fully in the 
near future 011 the bulletin boards. 
There was some doubt concerning 
this branch of the course and Pro
fessor Trinks wishes to take this op
portunity to clear it, up.
Nearly 100 university students from 
England and Scotland worked last, 
fall during the harvest, season 011 
farms in western Canada. In addition 
to the travel and agricultural expe
rience gained, earnings of the stu
dents met the expenses of the trip.
Oregon State College.  Although 
handicapped by the loss of part of his 
right foot, Logan Carter is the most 
promising high jumper on the Oregon 
Stale campus.
ELECT NEW OFFICERS FOR
INTERFRATERNITY COUNCIL
At a meeting of the Interfraternity 
Council hold last Saturday the officers 
for next year were elected and the re
cent. difference between Student Coun
cil and the Interfraternity Council 
was discussed.
The following officers were elected: 
Tom Pratt, president; Sid Smith, 
vice president; Joe Ilorbst, treasurer; 
and Louis Fahnestock, secretary. 
Pratt. Is a member of Delta Upsllon 
social fraternity and a Dragon pledge, 
while Smith is n member of Tlieta XI 
social fraternity. Ilorbst, a Beta 
Tlieta PI, Is a member of Druids and 
is out for Track while Fahnestock, 
a Kappa Sigma, is also a Druid.
Director Breed entertained the mem
bers of the Department of Vocational 
Guidance, of the Pittsburgh High 
Schools in the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College 011 April 14. Twenty 
members were present. The students , 
of the Department of Household Econ
omics served luncheon.
Vacation
Work
We can use a few good men in Western Penn
sylvania next summer.
Last summer 1,000 men from 135 schools aver
aged $600.00 eacli.
You are guaranteed a minimum of $400.00 for 
70 days work.
This is not a house to house proposition.
See Mr. Reynolds
at Employment Bureau
On Friday, May 18, between 9 and 4 P. M.
Bethlehem, Pa.One and one-third 
million dollars has been left to Lehigh I 
University here by the will of the late I 
James Ward Packard, S4 graduate of ! 
Lehigh.
SELL YOUR USED BOOKS
Buy Next Years Supplies
OPEN ON MAY 25th 
Daily 11:30 to 1:30; 4:30 to 6:00
THE STUDENTS BOOKSHOP
Skiho Inn

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREt
Retiring ManagerCARNEGIE MENS GLEE CLUBExaminations For Ali 
Classes Scheduled To 
Begin Next Week
Music Notes
May 15.
On Tuesday evening, May 15 at S:30 
in the Pittsburgh Musical Institute re
cital room there will be a recital by 
voice pupils of Cass Ward Whitney. 
May 1?.
On Thursday evening, May 17, at 
S:30 in the Institute recital room there 
will be a recital by members of Wil
liam H. Oettings two-piano class.
May 18.
A recital by students from piano 
classes and expression classes of the 
Pittsburgh Musical Institute will be 
given Friday evening, May 18, at 8:30 
in the Institute recital room.
May 20.
A recital will be given by the Bach 
Choir and other students of the De
partment of Music on Sunday. May 20, 
at 8:15 p. m. in the Theater of the 
College of Fine Art. No tickets will 
be required.
Program.
1. Bonnet..........Variations de concert
Frederick Chapman
2. Ravel .................................. Sonatine
Modere
Mouvement de Menuet 
Anime
Dohnanyi........Rhapsody in F minor
3. Brahms ................................. Quin
tet for Piano and Strings, Op. 34 
Allegro non troppo 
Louis Crowder, piano 
Virginia Brookliart., first violin 
David Fisher, second violin 
John Brletic. viola 
Grace Bazell, cello
4. Bach .................................................
Motet, Jesu, Priceless Treasure 
The Bach Choir 
J. Vick OBrien, conductor 
Matthew Frey at the organ
Conflicts in Exam Schedules 
Must be Reported in Office 
by Thursday
Next week inaugurates the first of 
the filial examinations. On Monday, 
May 21, the first of the Seniov exam
inations is scheduled and from then 
until Saturday night two or three ex
aminations in each school will be 
given daily.
Examinations for Juniors, Sopho
mores, and Freshmen are schedule! 
for the week of May 24 to June 1. 
This schedule overlaps the Senior ex
amination schedule, thus enabling 
both seniors and underclassmen to 
take at the same time examinations 
in the subjects which are open to all 
classes. All language examinations 
for example, are given in the Union 
and the gymnasium on Friday, May
WILBUR A. SCOTT
schedule and who has not already re
ported it in the office of his school, 
should inform his department head 
by Thursday. May 17.The complete examination sched
ules may*be found on bulletin boards 
in all four schools, and students are 
advised to consult them at once.
The schedule committee which ar
ranged the dates and hours for the 
examinations has succeeded almost 
completely in avoiding conflicts this 
year. However, it is impossible to 
avoid all conflicts, since many stu
dents are taking subjects not called 
for in their courses. Any studentStNIOR INVITATIONS TO 
BE DISTRIBU ED MAY 21Good Mechanical 
Condition 
Rebuilt Motor |
Good Tires j
Gall
Shelby A. McMillion |
SCHENLEY 9082 !
LINDEN 1204-W |
is taking care of the orders. A de
posit of $4 must be left with each or
der and complete payment must be 
made for rings which are to be deliv
ered in June. The price of the men's 
rings ia $16; the womens $14.
Graduates may obtain their rings 
at any time after Commencement 
through the Alumni office. Delivorv 
will be made about three weeks fol
lowing the placement of the order, 
who has a conflict in his examination
Senior invitations, according to ad- j 
vice from the Registrar's Office may ' 
be obtained in that place on Monday, ! 
May 21, from 9 until 5. Each senior : 
will be allowed three invitations and j 
tickets for the Commencement Exer
cises. However more may be had at 
five cents each. Letters will be sent 
to each senior this week asking him 
personally to call for his invitations.
Caps and Gowns for commencement 
will be handled through a committee 
composed of. a representative from 
each school who will obtain measure
ments and collect the money. Thu 
price of rental will be $2.25. There 
will be no refund upon return of the 
gowns. The committee pelected bv the 
president of Student Council is as 
follows: John Carr, Art School:
John McNair, Industries; Don Allen, 
Science; Florence Blaph, Margaret 
Morrison.
Today is the last day in which to 
place orders for rings that are to be 
delivered by Commencement Day. 
Miss Andrews in the Alumni Office
MUSIC CRITICISM
By Joe Patterson.
Another capacity audience gave ova
tions to the orchestra of the Pitts
burgh Symphony Society, as it com
pleted its season in the Syria Mosque, 
a week ago last Sunday night, with 
Eugene Gossens as guest conductor 
and Moriz Rosenthal, a pianist, as 
guest soloist.
The most brilliant performance was 
that given the Dvorak Carnival over
ture, the first number of the program. 
It was thoroughly pleasing and de
serving of the abundance of applause 
it invoked.
The symphonic piece, was the atmos
pheric Scherheregade by RimskyKorsakoff, featured with violin solos 
by the concertmaster, Elias Breeskin. 
The orchestra built no a fine climax 
in the surging first movement, "Alle
gro con tropin. and made the most 
of the dramatic opportunities of the 
Andantino Cappriccioso. The more 
popular third movement, Andantino 
quasi Allegretto, was perhaps given 
more feeling in its melodic themes. 
One could appreciate the effort put 
into the finale, "Allegro Molto, with 
its theme changes.
A new number to Pittsburgh, De 
Grignons "Andulusia, proved to be 
full of delightSpanish rhythm and 
odd harmonies entailing a lot of reed 
work. The stirring Tannhauser 
overture concluded the orchestras 
program.
Rosenthal is a little man with un
tiring fingers and an inclination to
Tlie Carnegie Tech Glee Club held 
its annual banquet and election of of
ficers last Monday evening in the 
Garden Tea Room at Center and Lib
erty avenues. A group of thirty-five 
members of the club, and J. Vick
0 Brien, head of the Department of j 
Music, were present.
After the very delectable four | 
course dinner, W. A. Scott, manager 
of the club, took charge of the meeting and acted as toastmaster. Mr. ; 
Gaul and Mr. OBrien each spoke a j 
few words, commending the officers) 
of the club for the progress made this 
year, and wishing the club continued 
success in the years to come. Each 
of the retiring officers also gave a 
word of advice to the club. The ac
tivities keys were then awarded, Wal
ter J. Poyntz as student director, and 
j Wilbur Scott as manager receiving 
jeweled gold keys; Carl Fry receiving, 
j a gold key for his four years activity i 
| in the club, and the .following receiv- 1
1 ing silver keys for two years activ- i
ity: W. A. Jameson, Paul Brant i
gam, Charles Sliotts, George Wile. 
Carl Long, Jack Ward. James Rob
ertson, Walter Sickles, Sidney War
ner, Wilfrid Woland, Robert Boyd, 
Sam Rudiclc, and Joseph Patterson.
The surprise of the evening came 
when Mr. Scott announced that a sil
ver loving cup was to be awarded to 
the clubs most valuable member. 
The cup, presented this year for tlie 
first time, is to be known as the W. 
A. Scott award, and will be awarded 
annually at the banquet to a mem
ber of the club, chosen on the follow
ing qualifications: leadership, atti
tude, dependability, personality, abil
ity, willingness to assist, participa
tion in events, performance of duties, 
and concern for the advancement of 
the club, and welfare of the members. 
Having made a thorough casting 
among the members of the club, Mr. 
Scott chose Paul Brautigam as the 
recipient of the cup. Paul has been 
very active as second assistant man
ager, this year, and has also filled the 
oosition of student director at various 
times.
Election of officers then took place, 
with the following results: Robert
S. Boyd, manager; Walter Sickles 
Paul Brautigam and Wilfrid Woland, 
first assistants; a^d Carl Long. W. A. 
Jameson, L. C. Robinson, A. Iv. End, 
and S. B. Smeltzer, second assistants. 
Mr. Boyd, the new manager, is a jun
ior in Civil Engineering, and has been 
very active in the club during the 
past few years. He is a member of 
Sigma Nu, and of Phi Mu Alpha, Sinfonia, the national musical honorary.
The student director for next year 
has not yet been definitely named.
I but the probabilities are that Paul 
Brautigam will fill the place. Paul 
! has assisted in the., directing during 
I the past year and has proved himself 
i of great value. In the club he fills 
I the position of second bass, but his 
j pleasing baritone solos have always 
been highly appreciated by the glee 
' club audiences. He is a member of 
Delta Upsilon, social fraternity and a 
pledge of the Sinfonia, musical hon
orary. This is his sophomore year in 
I the department of music, 
j Charles Sliotts, accompanist for the 
past year and a half, will continue in j this capacity. He ha3 added much to 
the success of the Club with his de
pendability at the piano and his bril| Hunt solo work. He Is a sophomore 
i in the department of music and a 
1 pledge to the Sinfonia.
THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new shadowweight felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
G100 PENN AVENUE Established 1872
FOR GRADUATING SENIORS
An Opportunity for College Graduates in the 
"Best EHid Hard Work in the Worldmarathon the keyboard. In tlie Liszt 
"Concerto in E Flat Major No. 1." 
which he p'aved with the orchestra. 
 lie scales and arpec^io became tire
some toward the end. Despite the 
difficulty in following with the ear the 
continuity of the work, it was enjoyed, 
and Rosenthal was recalled for an 
encore.
The pianist played the 1 beautiful 
Chopin-Liszt. Nocturne with grace 
and ease and quiet runs, and the short 
Chopin "Mazurka, with great expres
sion.
The program announced four con
certs by the Pittsburgh Symphony So
ciety, next season, and it is a fine thing 
for Pittsburgh to look forward to the 
development of her own orchestra. 
Its performances this year have shown 
the talent and ability in this group, 
and the polish of experience should 
brighten future seasons.
Thnt is the otory of one who began nt the bottom 
and reached the top without the help of a VCFFVHC 
education. The advantage!) arc with you who grad
uate from college.
Future
And there iu so much room for ability and energy.
Life insurance, in volume of 
business, in one of the three 
leading businesses in this coun
try, and yet it ia only in ita 
youth because the possible ap
plication oT insurance is ex
panding all the time.
H 'K THAr nrc yu to do after graduation?If you have not decided  or if you have 
*  made a snap dcpiuion just read over the 
rest of thi3. It presents the case for life insurance as 
a career. It is worth thinking about. The choice of 
a career is important. Life insurance is most desirable 
and satisfactory as a permanent 
calling.
And why?
Money
Reports of college graduates 
v/ho have entered business indi
cate that life insurance holds 
first place a3 a source of income.
One John Hancock agent de
scribes his work as the bestpaid hard work in the world.
Ke is a college graduate and in 
five years has put himself at 
the very top of 'nis business.
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECOND HAND 
CLOTHES
REASONS WHY1534 Center Avenue
STOTEMT
SUPPLIES
Rochester, N. Y.The annual yel 
low sheet of the campus of Rochester 
University took the form of a tabloid 
this year, called tlie Scampus Mir
ror.' It was made up almost entirely 
of wild pctures purporting to repre
sent. the life of the campus.
C. M. STUFT
OAKLAND
DIFFERENCEYour Company 
Now is the time to consider what you are goihg to 
do after graduation. If you are ambitious, willing to 
work hard, and are interested to know about a life 
insurance career, you owe it to yourself to examine 
the opportunities afforded by the John Hancock 
Mutual Life Insurance Company. It is a national 
institution with a country - wide service, of great 
financial strength,one of the large companies of the 
world.
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent the best.
Quality, Pit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
'TA R N R S FO
C, PROGRESS p 
1 SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER /
Retailing is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A. HL and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
BIGF OURTACUKF MEPSCUD
CY ,CPOCBD MIPPIVNXP1OOP
65th year of business. Insurance in force, $2,764,331,561.00. Assets, $451,006,878.49 
reserves and all liabilities, $415,000,775.15; surplus funds, $36,006,103.34. 
Address Communications to Inquiry Bureau, 197 Clarendon St., Bston, Mass.
California University.A. 7'. Gian
nini, chairman of the advisory com
mittee of the Bank of Italy, says the 
value of a eoleee education depends 
upon the interest of the individual In 
his work:
KAUFMANN/
PITTSBURGH

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 15, 192S
COLLEGE RECORDS
AND SUCCESS IN LIFE
By Hugh Allison Smith, A.
souri '97, A. 02
M,, Mis- credulous bourgeois. Apparently it 
11 a world where human beings may
that no jury with all. the facts before hot in this highest list in scholarship] 
it would disagree with the findings, is 253, ajid of. these only three are to i 
Moreover, the striking accord be- he found in Whos Who. 
tween the list made by averaging the It is seen, then, that the test by j 
grades and that obtained by compil- Whos Who is no less conclusive than \ 
lug information concerning success so j the figures taken from the commit-j 
Impressed the committee that it re- tee's results. ?For a name on the high
THISTLEDOWN
------- - I , | trlcied its authority largely to cer- list in scholarship, the chances of ap-(Professor of Romance Languages in do anything except their regular woi c , ^j(j(.tty0 0f y,jH agreement. If a man pearing in Whos Who are more than
the University of Wisconsin). i in a creditable way,
Tliis paper was read before the Mis- The whole subject would seem to 
souri Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa in deserve a more thorough investigation 
June, I92G, and was later reprinted in, of the facts. Is it really true that, 
the May, 1927, number of Education. | when a man has excelled most of his 
Cts conclusions coincide closely with : reflows Tor four years In his college
was high in one list he was almost : 50 times as great as they are for 
invariably high in the other; and ifname on the lower list. Consequentlow in one, low in the other. This ly these figures, if one accepts tlie 
situation was repeated with such j two tests as even approximately fair 
monotony, in tlie 1800 names, that the | standards, seem to prove conclusivetemptation became strong, when one i ly that a record in college studies
done. The coffee is rarely hot, and 
never good. The soups all taste 
pretty much alike. Some one in the 
kitchen seems to have the unpalata
ble idea that two thirds of any fruit 
salad must consist of one-third 
canned peaches and one-third canned 
pineapple. The iced tea is the worst:.
those set forth by John Clair Minot, course, we cannot argue that he will factor waB knowrif l0 accept it as a I high enough to confer distinction 
JLiitt.D., Bowdoin *90, Associate Editor, most probably ^continue to \ certain indication or the other. If, for j among a mans fellow students, hasof the Youths Companion, and pub-1 in later life? Or are the examples of 
fished in the November, 15)27, number | failure to excel later, and 
of, The North American Review in an cases where men with poor
article entitled, What Door Does the j records have achieved striking sue 
Phi Beta Kappa Open? Tills article 
is also commended to the attention of 
our readers.Editor.
.example, the college record of number 
t ie ot iei j 500 happened to be misplaced, but the 
co ege I information showed that,lie. had clearTo attempt to onerose highly variable 
human- nature in statistical formulae,
ly won no distinction in life, it hardly :0H8 In after life, ..ly the rare excep-1 Heo,K(, worlll whlle t0 seal.(. tor Ul0
tions to a general rule, the more 
widely exploited because they are ex
ceptions? ,
Some progress has been made in 
partiti! Investigations. Neither intelin order to draw therefrom rigid . llgenco tests nor common-sense obsermathematical deductions, Is doubt- vatlons have shown any mental relapse 
less a hazardous undertaking. But, j or tendency to go into reverse inlelgince almost everyone Is accustomed 
tb express himself on the matter of 
this title without regard for any data, 
it should not be thought too repre
hensible to offer an opinion that is 
supported by objective evidence.
There has long been a striking par
adox to explain in this country, if we 
compare the public's attitude toward 
college attendance with the opinions
missing record. Experience with 
hundreds of others made It sure that 
ho could be classed, with ninety-nine 
per cent of certainty, in the group 
with low marks.
In the case or one such man, of 
whom it was known only that he was 
selling chicken-wire fence In a small 
town/ a wager, by the sporting memof one hundred 
to one, that his college grade, if found,
lectual gear between the ages of sev
enteen and twenty-one. On the con-,  ,
trary, o long a the human machine | bor of 
remains on tlie educational highway, 
from kindergarten to professional 
graduation, every test shows that It 
drives forward with a speed and re
liability strikingly in accord with its 
original horse-power. Eighty per 
cent of the upper rourth In high school
been a remarkably reliable indication 
that the holder would win distinction 
in later life'; while it is demonstrated 
that the failure to win such distinc
tion in college studies indicates, with 
striking regularity, a similar career 
in life.
The unanimity of these statistics 
naturally leads one to ask why should
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle
j What about service in the Grill?
Wiiy arent there enough cooks in the 
! kitchen to keep ready a sufficient 
j supply of toast sandwiches, and whatI ever makes up the special? Why 
j arent there enough waiters behind
! the counter to keep the line moving | Thistledown ever drank anywhere, 
j faster during the rush hours at break- an(i never really cold. The other 
fast, lunch and dinner? Why arent i morning: Thistledown was with a stu! there enough buss boys and girls to j dent who discovered that bo'th the 
clear away dirty dishes as soon as a j rnilk for his cereal and the cream for 
 table is left free? And why cant [ his coffee were sour. The portions 
; those buss boys wipe the tables clean, usually leave one hungry, and they 
j instead of leaving them streaked with I vary in size. Pieces of cake seem to 
| long spots of butter and spilled ! get thinner toward night, and a spei soups? ^ cial sometimes  gives you one chop.
What about prices at the Grill? | sometimes two. Some nights choice 
j The Grill has a large and regular j is impossible; only two kind of po] group of students it serves. The Grill ! tato, which one knows will be cold 
for the most part charges them just I and raw; only one kind of meat, such 1 -1 ! LU1 LUC 11IUOI. Jtli L Uiiaiftop U1CU1 ju.il ... .. , ........... ------------------- not a_ college record be considered a | aa mt]cll a3 they wouI(1 )iave t0 pay at ! aB bony fat short ribs of beef, or that
test, by far the most exhausive and 
reliable known, to indicate the future 
career of a young man? The average 
student, in a university during four 
years, is under at least 25 or 30 dif* ferent instructors. He meets these
any private restaurant. Private j cheap meat, swiss steak. And hot 
restaurants make money. It is sound I foods are all too seldom really hot. 
logic then to suppose that the Grill | What can be done about the Grill? 
makes money, and a lot of it. Where i Nothing. 1 But let us pray for more 
does that money go. If it is turned  counter space, made by cutting a few 
over into the running expenses of the j holes in the kitchen wall. That
I Institution, or to the Alumni Fund, j would do1 much toget rid of 
line. Let
the
the
 most, often expressed on the value of j marks remain in the upper half dura high college record. Our young 
men arid our young women, both the 
fit and the unfit, are obsessed by the 
desire for a college degree. The rush 
into our universities threatens to de
plete some very usetul occupations, 
and, If. itT?oes on increasing, there will 
soon be no hewers of wood without 
an enginering diploma, and even the
ing their college careers, and eighty ^ i -per cent of tile lower fourth in high stupid persistency, after seeing the j record: Many qualities of the student ..................................................................................................  ........................................... ..................... ..._____
school fail to rise above mediocre | results in hundreds of cases, not to are |io doubt rejected 111 these marks.  (hat the Grl mokes any pront, the stu-1 what the Grill tries lo do.
would be below 87, went untaken; the , more than 2,000 times during these
mark proved to be below S3. j four years In most of these 2.00|kBtudentB have-a right to know it. so | grumbling waiting
On the other hand, if a man showed meetings the student is under ohserv- L,mt thay may fee, a warm g]ow of ; cooks learn how to cook better, and
a grade of 93, it came to seem almost |   I beneficent patronage every time they | let them prepare a larger variety of
go down its steps. If that profit is + rood. Let prices'come down, and thesuperfluous to consult alumni records I wayH- and it is the impression from 
and write letters In order to learn | ll,ese interviews and these examinathat lie held a position of importance ons, recorded day by day and term 
or eminence. It demanded an almost ^ hy term that make up his scholastic
going elsewhere, students have a  size of servings increase. And if the 
right to ask that the Grill be put on Grill remains indifferent let some pria cooperative or cost basis, for their | vate ..restaurant open up as near as 
\ benefit.. And if the authorities deny j possible to the campus, and do well
scholarship in college. The idea that 
a boy loafs in his academic course be
cause it is theoretic, and wakes up In 
his practical professional training has 
been proven fallacious.
Finally, some attempts have been
mined, as a certain index to the value 
of the other.
A few representative figures will 
show the reason for these convictions. 
For the first two classes of 54 gradudrawers of water will have at least made to show that a corresponding ates, a number of persons were asked 
a B. S. in home eqpnoiplcs. j relation  in eminence exists between opinions concerning the career and
One might well think, then, tliat a | college careers and success in life, j success ot the members, and eight or
good record in college or university 
would be considered extremely valu
able. But here is the paradox. In the 
opinions most frequently voiced, the 
publics contempt for high scholastic 
marks, as a measure of later success, 
would seem almost as groat as its de
sire to take a college course.
The satiric editor, who points r.o 
some successful man with a poor col
iege record, or who, alms a few shafts 
at the'' coijdge 'graduate armed only 
with his diploma cum laude, is a mere 
dispenser of orthodox public gospel. 
Johns father .-.almost invariably applaus such attacks, even while cheer
fully paying the. monthly deficit In his 
sons college allowance; just as Marys 
mother will likely sigh acceptance of 
the bitterest diatribes against the ef
fectiveness of our educational system, 
when she finds them published in her 
home journal by some fretful school
man, who, despairing of I,lie long, 
monotonous pull up the unroyal' road 
of sound learning, seeks to attract at
tention' by1 kicking over the traces. 
Certainly the general public grasps 
eagerly at the idea that both genius 
and practical ability are refractory 
under college discipline, and fall to 
make good in scholastic distinction. 
A literary figure, without a deplorable 
college rocord In his past, labors undor a sovero handicap; the rovlewer 
hits nothing lnl.orosl.lng to say about 
l,iIs lll'o. And (ho definition of a, selfmailo"l>tWInowi man seems to exclude 
fcho aid of the college professor.
The attitude In college circles is 
not notably different, The students 
traditional motto Is, Do not allow 
your studies to Interfere with your 
education; and from the childish 
freshman, at his first mixer, to the 
till more childish Old Grad, at the 
home-coming fraternity reunion, they 
oil talk worshiplully of College Life, 
although what is meant exactly by 
Colego Life, and how different it is 
from other life, when separated from 
its intellectual side, or, of it were dif
ferent why it should be valuable, are 
matter^ so vague that there are no 
serious treatises on this subject; and, 
'V.-by common consent, the mysterious 
 realm of College life is left as the pro
vince , of the popular novelist, a sort 
of American Montmartre in which he 
may amaze or scandalize at will the
But no one seems to have published these alumni were quite generally 
the results .of any study sufficiently I agreed on,.and one other was suggest 
rigorous and extensive to furnish an j ed by at least two correspondents, as 
argument that should be conclusive, the most worthy. The college marks 
Several years ago it fell to the lot of i showed that the eight universally aptlie Writer to take part in an investi- j proved had the highest averages in 
gntion of this nature, which would ! 
seem to offer abundant evidence, and | 
in which the element of success was | 
largely decided by a non-academic I 
jury.
This study was made of the records I
assume Hie one factor, when deter- j and some certainly count more withone instructor than with another. 
However, those that count most with 
every instructor are. ability to think, 
earnest, and constant work, punctu
ality, and reliability in the perform
ance of all duties, and it. is quite safe 
to say that the higher 10 per cent of 
the crass', winning distinction, must j 
have all those qualities. The records j 
show that a single very low mark or | 
failure is sufficient to bar a student | 
from the highest list. But are not in- j 
telligence, hard work, faithfulness and j 
persistency the four corner stones on 
which practically every sound sue- I 
cess in life must be built? Where is j 
there, outside of his college course, 
another four years in a young mans i 
lire where these basic qualities of aj 
successtul later career are so con
stantly tested, and the results so ! 
carefully recorded? Wliere can an
other prophecy of the future be based
the two classes, six being over 91 and 
two being 89. The other one, who won 
partial approval, had a mark of 85, 
which was no higher than that of four 
or five not suggested as eminent. 
From a later class, of 75 members,
dents have a right to boo and laugh 
at what would have to be extraordi
narily bad management. Meat costs 
too much at the Grill. Twenty cents 
for a sundae is a ridiculous price. 
Thistledown wonders if there isnt a 
neat profit on every five cent bottle 
or milk.
Whatf. about the rood at the Grill? 
Certainly the cooks know very little 
about their business. A fried egg is 
as heavy as if it had been fried in 
lard. The cocoaand why cant the 
Grill give us a large, hot, five cent 
cup of cocoathe cocoa is usually 
scummed, lukewarm, and. ill tasting. 
The potatoes are frequently half
a filial list was submitted to a num
ber of people: eleven won general ap
proval, as to their eminence in lire,
of the alumni or one or our large uni
versities.' It included all the gradu
ates of the bachelors course for a 
period of forty-five years. The most' and five others received two or more 
rocent class studied had gone out.  votes. Ten of the eleven were the 
fifteen years Ijefore, so that practical- j first ten in the class In grades, all 
ly all of its members.had had time to (averaging above 90; 
find their position in life. J The eleventh, having a mark of 85,
The plan adopted made two things should be called a genuine exception, 
necessary: the determination, first, Unless we are willing to admit that
of the average scholastic mark In col-1 political preferment escapes the law 
lege of alj of these alumni; and sec-1 0f scholastic ability. This, one would
ond, an inquiry into, and as exact an 
estimate as possible of tlieir success 
after leaving college. The total num
ber of portions Included was somewhat 
over 1,800.
It should be said that 
were taken for tills work.
hesitate to assert, but it is of Interest' 
to note that most of the relatively 
few exceptions were 
the politicians. It does not seem cer 
tain that a high college record is an
Such arguments touch responsive 
chords in most (ft us at the present 
time. In fact, the serious, older gen
eration, at lest, does not require ar
guments to prove that we are all 
money mad. What we do need is asThistledown wonders what Tartan 
reporter had the nerve to write that 
during C. W. Eta Kappa Nu made 
the campus a scene, of sparkling 
beauty and attractiveness. Tlie 
Squeak was nearer the truth: there 
is a rumor that the campus is deco
rated. No one seems to have had 
the courage to say that the Corona
tion was 'a-wretched pageant, and de
served more booing than it got, after 
the audience waited half an hour for 
five dull minutes. It was the biggest 
fai*ce I ever saw, as the plebe said. 
K. S. N. had a first rate review of 
Lear. Did you have a good time on 
the Julie Belle?
lie measures moi*e and more on ques
tions of money; and he seeks to en
courage those who in our present 
crisis have ceased to hope for their , 
country; although he himself des
pairs of the American who will hire 
a cheap lawyer for 10 or 20 dollars 
for a few hours, but will pay only two 
dollars for a whole winters work to 
a professor for his son. Obviously, 
at that time, the income of the gen
teel profesor did not march very
two yoars asAbt in getting votes. 
tliat il. was | Howover, l'est Illeso
aidod by falrly completo aiutimi ree- ; thought excoptloria, ton
ords, and tliat. mimeiOUS graduate?,
DXN well I5 nuiny otiiors, wore aslced. by
lei ter to givo tholr l'ranlc opinion oli 
th caroors In Ufo of th varlous menihors of thoBe chisBos. The connnltteo 
ntade no attempi: to doline success, 
leavlng ibis to. t.lie judgmont of thoso 
aslced to co-operato.
Prosu m ab ly, silice Ilio purposo o.f 
he invofJtlgatlon was usuai ly kiiown,
on so much careful data? j surance that we still have sufficient
But at this point it is necessary to sanity to hope for a cure, with proper 
lay aside the scientific ruler and com- treatment.
pass and look into the humanistic Perhaps a less immediate and sub
horoscope; or, it will be said that | iective view would give us such 
these data and these mathematical hope, both for our wayward social 
deductions do not take into account j conditions and tor the parlous state fast.
tlie variable, human possibilities in j or our higher education. At least this j In the same year, Emerson speaks
this rapidly changing world ot purs, j is the most obvious deduction to be j of the sluggard intellect or this conkOu'r statistics have dealt with those j made from the readings or our social tin'ent, content with mechanical'
_ ................. w,u> graduated 25 to 50 years in tlie',and educational temperature for the skill, and of public and private avtound among |)aR<  v/,len sot:ial and educational con- \ past hundred years, in one of its best j arice: which make the air we breathe
not seem cer- were different., and when a j barometric records; namely, the large thick and fat. The only consolation
college training led more frequently volume of Representative Phi Beta he can offer to the scholarly genteel
| to ;t few professions; and our investi-j Kappa Orations, that have been de-1 of Mrs. Gerould90 years in advance,
should bo I Ka^m was made a decade ago. i fiver ed from 1837 down to the present jit is trueis tliat they must otteu
consecutive permits two possible objections ! day. The state or society and of the accept poverty and solitude, and
classes are taken from the middle1 oflftgainst ^epting tlie above picture , higher education are the constant sist vulgar prosperity. We may intlie U'Sl and averaged together. ThevjllB representative today. , themes or these addresses, and it is | er, then, ir income and desire were
show/ a total of 550 students. Of I First, it might be alleged, or rather j needless to say that the tone of a Phi kept abreast in those days that it was 
these 550 graduates there are two 'ls abundantly alleged, tha^'we have, j Beta Kappa orator is sober, if not due to the very, tight rein on desire, 
lists''of names, taken from the records |ln lh, l),lHt decade, been submerged ; pontifical, and that among the speak- In 1S68 there is a special crisis in 
of 11 he committee. Tlie one Is a list' by 11 iloo(1 oC national prosperity and
of 93 who had the highest grades in 
, I helr classes. The other Is a list of 
i 97 w^io were considered the niost wor! thy, successful, or eminent, accord-thoro may have boon an Incentive to ; inK information compiled from
lay stress on Intellectual and profs- various sources/ The point to note is 
louai achievement and eminence us!,|mt (h8e two lists contain 87 names 
a citizen, rather than . on success j in common. This means that of Ilio
93 with I ho highest marks only six 
failed to make good in later life; only 
one out of 15 has not in later life
merely In making money, but the 
answers make If clear that an Intelli
gent public will generally agree on 
what constitutes success. And inci
dentally it was proven that the Old 
Grad" who comes back for the game, 
with something in his hip-pocket per
haps, and, certainly with, a distorting 
haze before his eyes, when he com
pares in retrospect coliege life and 
college work, has a clearer vision 
after he returns home and is asked to 
give his sober judgment on a serious 
matter. In any case it is probable
STUDY EMGINKEMM
ODB QUNUECBYS
materialism, and that success at 
present means to all of us money and 
luxury. If one asked, then, today, 
even a broadly intelligent public, the 
question, ascked ten. years ago, con
cerning the success of our eolleg
; ers are to be found the best - known 
names In social and educational
our moral tone and taste, and partic
ularly, the noting and recording of 
fields: such as Ralph Waldo Emerson,1 sensuality threatens us with a new 
Wendell Philips, Bliss Perry, Charles ! and decadent literature. And this is 
W. Eliot, Barrett Wendell, Woodrow 58 years betore a New York editor is 
Wilson, and many others. Their ut-! arrested in Boston, on the charge of
terances, therefore, would not
graduates, it might be held that the ; classified as sensational or irresponchoices would no longer Tall so large- isible.
(Continuer! on Page Pive.)
Scene 9FC228 Aulo HifiltiuOy lo vM\ne Ciuup, 20 Miles jiom Col/etie Campiti tit Colilen
Emginecrlflfig Suntmes* ScfisooU oS tfrie
Hocky Moamtaan IftegRon
Basic engineering courses in Matheniatics, Chemistry, Physics, English 
and Design. Also courscs in Assaying, Geology, Analytical Mechanics, Graphic Statics, Strength of Materials and Surveying. Prcp-.iratory 
Subjects of Chemistry, Physics, Advanced Algebra and Solid, Geometry 
offered for students deficient in entrance requirements.
JuSy 2 to August 25, 1928
This Summer Session is given especially for students who wish to make up work or to secure additional credits. All work is conducted by 
the regular Faculty of the School of Mines. For catalog of the Summer Session, write to the Registrar, Box Z'2.
Colorado School o Mines Golden, Colorado
I maintained the distinction shown by 
his marks during the four years.
More striking still is the showing 
of the second list. The total number 
of those in the lower group is 457. 
Only one out of 46 of these has at
tained distinction iu later life. When 
this is compared with the 14 out of 
15 attaining such eminence from the 
list of 93 who had the highest grades, 
one can see the rull significance ot 
college marks as an index to later 
career.
These statistics clearly seem too 
unanimous. It hardly appears pro
bable that so rigid an agreement be
tween college records and career in 
later lire would exist. There are 
scarcely enough exceptions to prove 
the rule. In aiiy case, it was deemed 
desirable to test these results by some 
other standard.
The one readily available, and the 
most likely to win at least a measure 
or approval, was to see how many ot 
the committees selections were found 
in Whos Who in a number of repre
sentative classes.
Taklog three of the earliest classes 
and counting both men and women, 
we find a list of 12 with the highest 
college records, out of a total of 93. 
Of these 12, nine appear in Whos 
Who. Of t ho Si others with lower 
scholastic records, only ono is in 
Wliop Who.
A fairer test would bo to consider 
the men alone, since comparatively 
few women appear in Whos Who. 
Doing this for fivo of ^the middle 
classes, in which the total number of 
moil is exactly 200, wo find 2S ranked 
on scholastic records, In the high list. 
Of those. 28, 18 are round in Vhos 
Who. Of the 172 not In the highest 
list, only two are in Whos Who. In 
the eight classes examined, then, 40 
are found in the list of highest college 
marks, and of these 40, 27 are listed 
I in Whos Who. The number or thoso
ly on the 10 or 15 per cent of best 
minds, as shown by the highest col
lege records.
The second objection rests on as
sertions which are more frequently 
made in academic circles but which 
are none the less vociferous, and pos
it! we adopt a purely objective and 
judicial attitude, in comparing tlieso 
numerous past diagnoses with our 
present symptoms as recorded in the 
bulletins of our educational clinics, 
there would seem to be no real rea
son to despair of having still a fairly
sibly quite as impresioaistio Recent- aml activo social and e<]utionly a whole squadron ot college prcsi-! al existence, although we may neverhope to be entirely well, or even long 
out of danger.
In 1837,' according to Horace Bush: 
nell, it is a shameful fact that we 
are now turning our policies and pubpresidents, deans and professional lec
turers, who form our wide - ranging 
flotilla of liglit-armored cruisers, in 
the educational, seas, has been bom
barding, us with claims that higher ed
ucation has suddenly broken down, 
has failed to keep pace with our rapid 
civilization, and is no longer effect
ive; and that a real revolution is 
necessary to restore it to its once 
brilliant state of. efficiency. Obviously, 
if all this be true, and if a college 
education is not merely a barometer 
biit a real factor of success in life, 
our evidence might not apply to the \ 
present-day conditions.
Statements that luxury and ma
terialism are destroying our former 
standards are too abundant to de
mand, or permit, recital here. Perhaps 
the most vital of these accusations 
is contained in a recent article in 
Harpers Magazine, by Kathery Ful
lerton Gerould, called The Plight of 
the Genteel. The gist of. this is that 
the genteel, which she identifies 
with the cultured middle class, were 
formerly peculiarly fortunate, in that 
their desires marched with tlieir in
comes. Our plutocracy has recently 
imposed a social standard that takes 
count only of purchasable things, and 
this affects all society, the rich, the 
middle class and the wage earner. 
There is no longer either opportunity 
or desire for culture, intellectual de
votion or contentment without 
wealth, and the article ends on the 
despairing note that somewhere in 
the republic other than financial rat
ings should prevail. The class known 
as the genteel was the chief pre
server of such admirable discrimina
tions, and it is rapidly disappearing.
MELLON
TRAVELERS
CHEQUES
You may travel in safety at 
no additional cost. We sell 
Mellon Travelers Cheques at 
par.
Forbes National Bank
 Your Home Bank
Fifth and Oakland, Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 15. 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
CLOTHES
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
(Jlmrtev House
Suits MO, *45, *50 Topo osato
~ BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT ~ 
OUR STORE IS THEmrtev House
OF PITTSBURGH
The charactor of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
JAGEMAN l& SPICKER HP
The Mens Store of Eaat Liberty 
6121 PENN AVENUE
Keeping Switches Clear
Many u train delay In wlntor 
weather used to he due to Know and 
Ice choking rail switches. Oil tires 
once were burned on the ground 
around important switches to keep ice 
melted out. Nowadays It Is done by 
laying lengths of electric heaters be
tween the ties so that switches can 
work In winter with as little Interfer
ence as In summer.
A Cynic Speaks
Director of personnel of a large 
Industrial corporation finds that mar
ried men are less liable to Injury 
while at work than divorced chaps or 
bachelors. This Is an upset of theories, 
Indeed. Our impression was that the 
fact the average man didn't are much 
what happened to him conduced to 
make him carelessiPhiladelphia In
quirer________________________________
Style bisplay
FLORSHEIM
SHOES
'-for Gollege Men
ANY way you figure it, P. A. is better tobacco. 
Take fragrance, for instance. Your weli-lqjowa 
olfactory organ will tell you. And tastewho 
can describe that? And mildnessyou couldnt 
ask for anything milder.
Yes, Sir, P. A. is cool and comfortable and 
mellow and mild. Long-burning, with a good 
clean ash. You never tire of P. A. Its always the 
same old friendly smoke. Get yourself a tidy 
red tin and check everything Im telling you!
MAY 16 and 17, at 
THE SKIBO INN By
L. C. GILMAN
Special College Representative of the 
Florsheim Shoe Company
A special exhibit where 
you canmakeyour indi
vidual selection from the 
seasons finest showiogof 
young mens shoe styles.
1 he more you know 
about tobaccos, the 
more you appreciate 
P. A,
VAN DEVENTER SHOE CO. 
SIXTH AT PENN 
202 FIFTH AVENUE 
444 WOOD STREET
no other tobacco is like it!
(D 1928, R. 7- Reynold* Tobacco Company, Winjton-S4leia, N. G.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 15, 1923
PLEBES TIE PITT 
AND WIN ANOTHER
AWARDS GIVEN AT 
RIFLERS PARTY
Pitt Score Was 63-63; Win: Party in Honor of Triangular 
Over Kiski in Close Com- | Match Winners; Movies 
petition i of Campus Shown
Tennis Team Returns 
From Eastern Trip
Defeat Penn State, But Drop 
Princeton Match; Rain 
Stops N. Y. U. Game
W.A.A. Will Sponsor 
Athletic Events In 
Bowl This Friday
The Varsity Tennis team returned On April 25, the rifle was j anll||.dny I|1(,|tl Bftcr a uccel!gtui
officially ended with the party given > ti-jp jn tire East where they won over
to the Varsity, the school champions, Penn State College 5-2 and lost to the
by the women and the plebea. The | Powerful Princeton team 7-0. The
The Plebe trackmen came through 
with flying colors last week. On 
Thursday the burden of preserving 
Carnegies athletic honor was placed
upon their manly-shoulders whon it I I New York University match acliedbecame evident that the Varsity would j,l tl 1 WtlH ,l ' A 11(5' 800 ,l ' | ufed for Friday was called off on acloso to Pitt, so they, flirting vail-1 thunks to the Misses Joan and Doro- counl of raln< T1)is was a keen dl3.
. antly, tied with tlie Panther Cubs at thy Roy and their mother, at whose appointment to the team as we had 
68-03. It was too bad that somebody 10me the party was held. Several a good chance of winning the match. I 
eiHo diii not take an extra third rfMje Qf moy, picture's taken about Carnegie hardly could expect to I
and thus win the meet. Anyway, the  . win over Princeton whiCli has itsteam wu>. not defeated. I ...|.uh and one of last tails 1 111, , t(J|m|a toam yoal,. an alH0 ,
oil Saturday thoy did somewhat Carnegie football game were shown iron," 1'avorlte lor intercollegiate j 
bettor and trounced ICiaki by the j and helped materially to bring about j team championship honors this year! 
score of 70 to 00, The Freshmen have I onjoyablotime. Besides the pic-1 aH i(- has not been defeated. Princebeen pretty rough on Kisld this year, J  . ..QO,.VOfi ton is led by John Van Ryn, the sixth
winning also In football and rifle. '"re 801 veJ | raklg gles player in the United'Jlie prop school boys, however, pioy- j by the girls the awards won by van-, gj_ates
od themselves superior on the basket- ous members of the rifle teams were j The Princeton match was not very \ 
ball floor and in the pool. | presented by Litutenant Arrowsmith. close. They won five singles matches j
lloth moots were exceedingly Inter- ^ ^ ds ^ ^ recip|enU I and two doubles matches, Hooper of ;
osting, especially the heartbreaking CarnegiC, however, forced Thurber of
Volleyball Champions 
Decided This Week
tie with Pitt. Maybe the next crop IlolloWH: 
of Pleb.es will proye that Carnegie j The Rifle 
does produce better yearling run-j each of the five high girls: Jean Roy, I lows, 
ners and Jumpers than the Institution | HoIen Whltc,hill> Allce Bright, Helen !
I Princeton to 17 games before he won Club pins presented to jjle fj,.Bt et. The summary is as fol_ _ __ _ Singles.
0,U"ei!'t   | ijrl'ght and Tsobel ShVpparcL 0 Y,u>., ( Irlnceton defeatedThe Kiski results were: Schmid 6-0, G-0.
Track Events. | The Rifle Club keys, presented to . AjM, of Prillceton defeated Glaser
100-yard dashWon by Clark, Ids- each of the live high Varsity men: I of Carnegie 6-1, 6-0. 
ki; second, Nease, Carnegie; third,! Kaseliagen, Lippert, Cole, Weatl.ierell I Thurber of Princeton defeated
Daugherty, Kiski. Time: 10 4-5. and Bronson. Hooper of Carnegie 17-15, 6-3.
120 high hurdles  Won by Agler, The N. R. A. medals, won by the Lenss of Princeton defeated CarCarnegie; second, Blanchard, Kiski; women's team for placing third in penter of Carnegie 6-2, 6-3. 
third, Aultman, Kiski. Time:18 4-5. the Women's Intercollegiate Match Powell of Princeton defeated Ivam220-yard low hurdlesWon by Ag- and awarded to Jean Roy, Helen j bach of. Carnegie 6-2, 6-1.
Ier, Carnegie; second, Byers, Kiski; I Bright, Helen Whltehill, Catherine j Doubles,
third, Burleigh, Carnegie. Timej Collins and Carolyn, Sliults. |' -Appel and Van Ryu of Princeton
: 15 1-5. I Bronze percentage medals for girls j defeated Schmid and Glaser of Car220:yard dashWon by Clark, Kis- j who competed in the N. R. A. match, j negie' 6-1, 6-0. 
ki; second Daugherty, Kiski; third, i given to Jean Roy, Helen Whitehill, j Lenz and Reed of Princeton defeatTalbot, Carnegie. Time:24 7-10. j Catherine Collins, Carolyn Shults, j ed Carpenter and Kambach 6-2, 6-2.
440-yard washWon by Brown,-Kis-! Isobei Sheppard*, Dorothy Roy, Helen; ---------
ki; second, Magnuson, Carnegie; I Bright, Alice Bright and Leah Keller, j The Penn State match was part of 
third, Abbott, Kiski. Time:55 1-5. A silver medal awarded to J. L. a-'big athletic program at State Sat880-yard dash  Won by Stewart, Stine, who placed second in the Third urday in honor of Mothers Day. CarCarnegle; second, Burleigh, Carnegie; i Corps Area, R. O. T. C. match, and a negiewon three ingles matches and 
third, Byers, Kiski. Time2:10. j bronze medal for third place won by two doubles matches.
Mile runWoi\ by Warley, Carne-' Leo Kaseliagen for winning second ; The summary was as follows,
gie; second, Gedan, CarUegie; third, | place in the same match. ! Singles.
Schmid of Carnegie defeated BarrCucliari, Carnegie. Time5:07 3-5.
Field Events.
Shot putWon by MaoMurdo, Kis, lei; second, Pincura, Kiski; third,
Wolfson, Carnegie. Distance49 feet
3 inolios. j Mme. Karpova on "My School Days ! Hooper of Carnegie 2-G, 6-0, 6-1,
Broad JumpWon by Abbott, Kis- in Old Russia'' was published in. the Mtzner of Penn State won over 
ii ki; second, Clark, Kiski; third, Nease, | winter issue of "Poet Lore.. I Carpenter 3-6, 6-4, 7-9.
Mme. . Susan Karpova spoke before of Penn State 6-3, 2-6, 6-3.
the League of Women Voters at the Glaser of Carnegie defeated Hinkle
Congress Club House on "How to.be-j of Penn State 6-1, 6-0.
come an American." An article by j Butler of Penn State defeated
To Have Camp Fire, Supper, 
Awards; Installation of 
Officers in Evening
The W. A. A. Board, this year, is 
sponsoring a Carnegie girls playday, the first of its kind ever held at 
Tech. The affair is to take place in 
the bowl this Friday from 4:30 p. m. 
until about 9:30.
The program during the afternoon 
will include, among other sports, 
baseball, volleyball, archery, tennis, I 
track events, and roller skating. The j 
schedule will be arranged in two 
periods of forty-five minutes each, 
one of which will be devoted to the ! 
j games, the other to track events. I 
Any girl may compete in these sports | 
regardless of previous experience. It 
is a play day for all.
Toward sunset, at the conclusion 
of the athletic activities, a camp fire 
will be made and a delightful supper, 
including hot dogs and all the gar-1 
nishings, will be provided by the ath
letic board. The installation of offi
cers of the W. A. A. Board for the 
coming year will be an important 
feature of the evenings program. 
There will be awarding of letters, 
pins, and numerals to those who 
have earned them and silver cups to 
the championship teams of the year. 
Due to ..the recent change in the ath
letic point system, it is probable that 
more awards will be made this year 
than ever before. Leah Milkman, 
president of the board, will preside 
during the evening and will present 
the awards.
Gladys Conner, member of the ath
letic board, is chairman of the com
mittee in charge of play-day. Under 
her supervision the program is pro
gressing in good fashion and the occation promises to be a great success. 
Anne McKee is in charge of the food 
for the supper.
Should the girls prove enthusiastic 
over this new play-day plan, it will 
undoubtedly become an annual affair, 
and every girl will be able to look for
ward to this day when she can enjoy 
herself in whatever spoi;ts she chooses] 
without the requirement of training 
beforehand.
The girls volleyball tournament 
which got under way last week will 
probably be concluded by the end of 
this week: Three games have been
played thus far. The first game, be
tween the Margaret Morrison Sopho
mores and Plebes was won by the 
Plebes. In the second game, the M. 
M. Sophs finished with a ten point 
lead over the Fine Arts team, and in 
the third the Arts girls were victori
ous over the M. M. Junior-Senior 
team which was somewhat weakened 
by the absence of some of its regulai 
players.
Three more games are to be played 
this week/ one between the M. M. 
Junior-Seniors and Plebes, one be
tween the M. M. Sophs and JuniorsSeniors, and one between the M. M. 
Plebes and the Arts team. The 
schedule lias been so arranged this 
year that each team competes with 
every other team. The game to de
cide the championship will probably 
be played on Friday during the playday program. The teams are fairly 
well matched so far, although the 
Plebes appear to have somewhat of an 
edge on the-others. Grace Jarvis, 
Margaret Morrison Sophomore, is the 
W. A. A. Board manager in charge of 
volleyball.
Archery, tennis, and baseball prac
tices have been going on during the 
past week or so. Due to the lateness 
of the season, the tournaments for 
these sports are to be scheduled on 
Friday afternoon along with the playday program. Members of all classes 
are urged to take part in these events 
which are being sponsored by the atnletic board.
wnriarnoRlo. Distance1.9 foot 10 Inches, 
hori High jump  Won by Merton and
miWllliams, both of Carnegie, tied forjmntlcs Section of the Western Penn.
J Kambach of Carnegie won 
At a recent meeting of the Mathe-1 Schuster of Penn State 6-2, 6-2.
overPLEBE NETMEN WIN
ONE AND LOSE TWO
in< first; Busch of Kiski and Konsl.er oi 
<>l Carnegie, tied for second. Height 
5 fouf 7 Vis inches.
Polo vaultWon by Merton 
gie; second, Aultman, Klslci 
Downs, Carnegie. Height, !) 
inches.
Discus throw- Won by MaoMurdo, 
Klskl; socqnd, Karels, Carnegie;!
third, Blanchard, Klskl. Distance j 
135 Hoot I Inch.
Javelin throw- Won by McCurdy, 
Klskl; second, Aultmnn, Klskl; third, j 
MaoMurdo, Klskl, Distance  .1,531 
foot 3 inches,
Hammer throwWon by Pincura,; 
Klskl; second, MacMurdo, IvlskI; ,
third, Dreishar, Carnoglo. Distance-- 
145 foot 10 Indies.
sylvanla Educational Association 
lessor, Edwin G. Olds, of the MatheI mal les Department, was elected a 
Carne* member of the executive council for a 
third, j three-year term, 
feet 6
lRsFmJRC E.N.LiIRQH
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.l
Sunday School 11 A. M. 1
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9. J
Doubles.
Schmid and Glaser of Carnegie won 
j over Baur and Butler of State 6-1, 6-3. 
j Carpenter and Kambach won?fryer 
1 Hunkle and Metzner of Penn State 
| 6 3. 7-5.
: The Tartan netinen were excellent
ly treated on the trip and every man 
had a good time. Those on the trip 
' were Captain Joe Schmid. A. J. Glasor, 
j J. M. Hooper, I-I. P. Carpenter, R. M. 
Kambach, Manager D. W. Lewis and 
I Conch Hoover.
T
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS ,
LOST
Gold pin In for.m of Icttor S, 
somcwhcro on the campus last 
week. Reward if returned to 5151 
Woodlawn Avenue.
OAKLANDS 
RESTAURANT 
for 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
DASCHBACHS
3808-10 Forbes Street
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO,, Inc.
Royal Portable DistributorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
National Tailors
Spring
Showing
at
Skibo Inn
Monday and Tuesday, 
May 14th and 15th
Panthers Win.
Pitt defeated Carnegie in a long, 
hard fought match on the Stadium 
courts 5 matches to 2. Schmid and 
Glaser played a long match In dou
bles with /Baur and Cable of Pitt 
j finally losing out after a long strugI gie the first set 18-16. Hooper and 
Kambnch won their singles matches. 
The scores were as follows:
Singles.
j Baur (Pitt) defeated Schmid (Car! negic 6-3, 6-2.
I OLoughlin (Pitt) defeated Glaser
I (Carnegie) 6-4, 6-2.
| Hooper (Carnegie) defeated Lauler
i (Pitt) 6-4. 5-7, 6-3.
I Cable (Pitt) Won over Carpenter
! (Carnegie) 6-3. 6-3.
| Kambach (Carnegie) won over
; Westervelt (Pitt) 6-4. 9-7.
Doubles.
Cable and Baur (Pitt) defeated 
Sclimid and Glaser (Carnegie) 1S-16, 
3-6, 6-4.
OLoughlin and Lanier (Pitt.) de
feated Hooper and Carpenter (Car
negie) 6-4, 6-1.
 Wednesday afternoon, the Plebe 
team defeated Union High from Turf 
| tie Creek, five games to 1. The game 
I was played on the Tech courts, 
j SinglesBerghane (Carnegie), de| tented Anderson, 6-2* 6-1; Fox (Carnej gie), defeated Parshail. 3-6, 6-4, 7-5;
| Naley (Union High), defeated King,
\ 6-8, 6-4, 6-3; York (Carnegie), defeat
ed Wiseman, 6-3, 6-2.
DoublesBerghane and Fox (Garner 
j gie-, defeated Anderson and Parshail,
I 6-1 and 6-2; and Morris and York 
| (Carnegie), defeated Benner and 
! Rutter, 6-1 and 6-1. 
j The Plebe net men suffered defeat 
| when they met the Pitt Freshmen last 
Monday, May 7. The1 final score was 
6-2.
SinglesJacobs (Pitt), defeated 
Berghane, 6-1, 6-2; Cohen (Pitt), deI feated King, 6-0, 6-3;. Levin (Pitt), defoa.ted Fox, 6-0, 6-1; Snodgrass (Pitt), 
I defeated York, 6-2, 6-2: 
j DoublesJacobs and Levin (Pitt), 
l defeated Berghane and Fox, 6-1, 6-2;
! Gurley and Foote (Pitt), defeated 
King and York, 6-4 and 6-1.
Plebes vs. Shadysile. 
j The Plebes lost their secoud game 
| this week on meeting Sliadyside Acad
emy.
SinglesOLauglilin, Shadyside, dej feated Berghane, Carnegie, 6-1, 6-4;
! Fox, Carnegie, defeated Arensberjr, 
I Shadysde, 0-6, 7-5, 6-4; Crutchfield,
The Way To 
Independence
The surest method of attain
ing financial independence is 
through systematic saving, be
gun early. Instead of the false 
thrift that makes you sacrifice 
much happiness, the right kind 
of saving, carried on regularly 
over a period of years, will pro
vide means for happiness now 
as well as in the future.!
A savings account at the Mel
lon National Bank pays 4% inl terest compounded semi-annual- !y.
i Mellon National Bank
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Shadyside, defeated York. Carnegie,
Seattle. Wash.Automobiles (>00.- 
000,000 years before the time of man?
A visit to the geological laboratory 
in science hall at the University of 
Washington would seems to prove so, 
for a plaster cast taken from an ane'ent fossil shows a perfect imprint 
of a Goodrich Silvertown cord.
Automobile firms will never get to 
use this choice bit of valuable adver
tising, however, because the mark was 
made by a gigantic worm ages ago. 
"Professor Weaver of the geology de
partment explained that the worm, 
which must have been about a foot 
hi diameter, had left his mark in the 
".oft, mud, then It, had been covered 
with rocks and water until It fossilizod.
The fossil was discovered In the At
lantic ocean soveral years ago, and 
'he university received a plaster cast 
of It. Its scientific, title Is cllnlciplichuit.es wilsoni.
| 8-6, 6-2; King, Carnegie, defeated
i Arensberg, Shadyside, 6-3, 6-3. 
j DoublesBerghane and Fox. Carne{gie, defeated OLanglilin and Arensj berg, Shadyside, S-6, 4-6, 6-2: York 
I and Morris, Carnegie, defeated 
; P'-tchfield and Arensberg, Shady, side. 6-3, 6-3.
! The Plehe-Kiski game scheduled for 
j Friday, May 11, had to be called off 
j on account of rain, 
i Four games remain on the Plebe 
I calendar and Saturday will see the 
! last of these. The schedule is as foljlows: Monday, May 14, Youngstown,
j (Rayen High), there; Wednesday,
I May 16, Peabody Hi, here: Thursday,
! May 17, Turtle Creek Union Hi), 
j there, and Saturday, May 19, Pitt 
Frosh, there.
So far this season the Plebes have 
j shown very little potential strength. 
However we are looking for a better 
) showing tills week. All g^mes yet to 
j be played are return games except 
the one with Rayen High.
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School ofOancinii
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Rocinners Monday and Friday! 
Evenings. Advanced. Thursday and | 
Saturday Evenings. Private lessons | by appointmenL
Mayflower 7891
 -.  ..-..HI..-. 
Northfleld, Mass.The annual stu
dent conference ls to be held here this 
year from June 15 to June 23. At this 
gathering, which was held at Silver 
Bay last year, several hundred repre
sentatives from eastern universities, 
colleges and schools are to be present 
to discuss pertinent questions of life 
and outstanding topics of the day.
An exceptionally fine group of lead
ers and speakers are to be present 
this year. Among them are Henry 
Sloane Coffin, Henry H. Tweddy, 
Kirby Page, and others.
Carnegie Girls To Attend 
Pitt Annual Sports Day
Carnegie girl athletics are again to 
take part in the annual playday 
program which is being held by the 
University of Pennsylvania tomorrow 
afternoon in the Pitt stadium. Twen
ty sportswomen able to indulge in all 
forms of novelty and athletic activi
ties, and all-round athletes as well, 
are to represent each of the following 
colleges at this meet: University of
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania College for 
Women, Carnegie Tech, Allegheny, 
Thiel. Indiana, Westminster, Setou 
Hill, Slippery Rock, Grove City, Johns
town Junior College, and Geneva.
The entire group of girls is to be 
divided into four color groups and not 
according to colleges, so that all in
tercollegiate competition will be 
eliminated. The activities of the aft
ernoon will include basketball', volley
ball, baseball, and hockey, as well as 
running, jumping and the like. The 
events, all of which are to take place 
in the stadium, will begin at 2:30 and 
will continue for several hours. A 
swim in Trees pool followed by a 
formal banquet at Heinz House will 
complete the program of the day.
The girls who are able to attend 
this All-Sports Day will be sure to 
have a most enjoyable time as did 
those who took part last year.
Jeniohf
EUROPEfirst
,ht?c WoM
si)(up)$
184
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu If 
desired or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.
STORE SERVICE 
CakesPastriesIce Creams 
IcesBread and Candies ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
iRT3!E ROUND TRIP
GET out your pad and 
pencil, count your 
savings, figure the cost 
and ofFy ou go to Europe via 
our Tourist Third Cabin.
Specially reserved quarters 
for Tourist passengers on 
such famous liners as Majestic, worlds largest 
ship, Olympic, Homeric, Belgeiiland, and others.
We offer the only steam
ers in the world devoted 
entirely to TQUROST pas
sengers, \fiBmtni<Bfcadl0a2t9 
IVSStan es ota, WBnBfaesUBan and DevonBan. No 
other class carried. You 
have the freedom of all 
decks. No class distinc
tions.
Let us send you literature 
describing our unusual 
valuesin economical travel.
1 WHITE rFAR 5.1 NE
1 RED /TAR OWE B.EYLAND LINE 
ATLANTIC TOAN/POKT UNEj INTIRNATIONAL MERCANTILE MARINE COMPANY
: L. A. MILLER, Manager, Union Trust 
____________Building, Pittsburgh.__________
Too Handy!
Money around the bouse within easy reach, is 
half spent.
Nothing keeps a family poorer than the loose 
change habit.
Easily reached dollars, spent foolishly, 
keep families poor.
A checking or saving account with this 
strong bank will plug the leaks and curb 
thoughtless spending.
Make up your mind NOW to pay all your bills 
by check.
IBMOBKY NBADKGh a ngehs fSL
THE OAKLAND BANK
Where Meyxan Crosses Forbes Street
\ \

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 15, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
On the Plaid Screen
L
By THOMAS W. LIPPERT
Pitt, as WXN expected, literally cleaned lip In the track meet with a com
fortable 111 to 23 margin. Lockhart garnered the only Tartan ilrHt by bopping off the 200 low hurdle In 14 5-10. Pickard, a Panther product, cleared 
the bar at 13 feet 1% Inches, chalking up a new collegiate tii-Hlate record. 
The Carnegie plebe did somewhat better by tying the Pitt yearling, G3-63.Without doubt Pitt ha got a liner galaxy of all-around athlete than any 
other Bchool In the country ha bad the good fortune to ecure. -And what' 
more, they are not all graduating, and there 1 darn littlo danger of any of
them ''flunking. A football win next year in to be doHired, but It would be
rather foolih to think of it a an eay setup for Carnegie, for it will be 
anything but.
Saturday wan a somewhat more favorable day for the Skibos. The 
Varsity-Westminster, as well a the Plebe-Klki meet, were both chalked up 
by extremeiy cloe margin.Me.Farlln, with bi 14 point, was again the varsity high scorer and 
Kennedy, with 10 points, was a clowe second. Seaman took first place in the 
hammer throw. Seaman, like a number of other trackmen, ha never de
veloped into a sensational artist, but is a consistent, hard working man.
Practicing conscientiously all summer be has come from a doubtful fourth to 
an occasional lirst place thrower.********
The Plebe track squad is the best balanced and all-around performing 
aggregation in Carnegies history. They have been pulling off a number of 
creditable records in their few meets. All big boys they will be very wel
come material for next years team.Agler took over both the high and low hurdle In the Klkl match, and 
wa top plebe with 10 points. Neae, while not often a first, is nevertheless 
a very consistent performer. Dreshar, Karci, Warley and Captain Talbert 
all are first class track material, and have been Instrumental in the Plebes 
excellent record to date.
The Athletic Council has awarded the rifle and swimming letters and 
numerals for the year. Bronson has been selected to manage swimming and 
Dlltz will manage rifle for the coming year. Both of these minor sports give 
promise of highly successful seasons.********
The racqueters, both varsity and plebes, also fell before the Panther 
onslaught last week. Art" Glaser, playing number one, was undoubtedly 
the one outstanding performer in both the singles and doubles. Schmid is 
hi close econd on the Plaid squad.
When it conies to marathon court battles the Glaser-Schmid double with 
Cable and Baur of Pitt, even*wore out the spectators. After playing their 
singles it took some thirty games to decide who was to get the doubles 
honors. It was two weary teams which staggered from the courts at the 
end of the contest.********
Returning early Sunday morning Coach Hoover and his boys are sporting 
a victory over Penh State and a loss to the famous Princeton team. The 
N. Y. U. match, a likely victory, had to be called because ot' rain.
The Princeton men walked away with a seven-love victory, with Hoop
ers 17 game set the one and only closely contested encounter. Led by Van 
Ryan, sixth ranking U. S. singles and the Van Ryan-Appel team, the first 
ranking national intercollegiate doubles, Princeton lias at present ull the ear
marks of collegiate championship honors this year. Carnegie's defeat in 
their hands is therefor little to feel downhearted about.
With several minor victories to their credit, the less said about the 
plebe net men. the better. Without the least doubt they can stand a great 
deal of improvement before they will be of use to the varsity next year.* * * * * * * *
At the last meeting of the Athletic Council the varsity major C" for 
basket ball was awarded to Albert V. Mcllveen of Bloomington, Indiana. Al 
won his letter in the good old days of 11)12, but was unfortunately overlooked 
when the awards were given, at that time. Wont Billy and the twins be surprised when Graijdpop struts out with a nice new, shiny C?
Weeks Athletic Events
TENNIS
WednesdayW. Va. Wesleyan...............................Carnegie Courts.
FridayBucknell ............................................................Carnegie Courts
SaturdayPitt ............................................................Carnegie Courts
Monday(Plebes)Rayen High .................................................There
Tuesday(Plebes)W. & J...........................................................There
Saturday (Plebes)Pitt .......................................................... There
TRACK
SaturdayBig Four Meet...............................................Pitt Stadium
Saturday(Plebes)West Virginia........................................ There
Bronson And Diltz VARSITY TRACKMEN! 
Selected As Managers BEAT WESTMINSTER;
Athletic Council Awards Let- Win Out in Final Event; Lose
ters to Swimming and 
Rifle Teams
At the regular meeting of the Ath
letic' Council last Tuesday, letters 
were awarded to the Rifle and Swim
ming teams, and managers were 
elected for next. The question of a 
varsity basketball coach for next 
year was brought up, but decision 
was postponed until the next meeting 
in order to give more time for con
sideration.
The following members of the Var
sity Ilifle team were awarded the Var
sity Minor C: W. D. Bronson, Leo
Kasebagen, T. W. Lippert, C. H. 
Weatherell, and N. D. Cole.
The members of the Freshman 
Rifle team who were awarded their 
numerals were: A. D. Anderson, W.
G. Maidment, D. H. Genter, B. M. Mar
shall, and T. S. Montgomery.
Clyde C. Park, who acted in the 
dual capacity of manager of both the 
Varsity and Freshman Rifle teams 
was awarded two Varsity Minor C let
ters witli bars.
Henry C. Diltz, a senior in Civil 
Engineering next year, a member of 
the Band, and a member of the Sigma 
Nu fraternity, was elected manager 
of the Varsity Rifle team for next 
season.
C. H. Weatherell, senior in Buildj ing Construction next year, and secI retaiy of the Alpha Tau honorary fra! ternity, was elected manager of the 
j Freshman Rifle team for next season. 
I Varsity Minor C. letters were award
ed to the following members of the 
swimming team: R. C. Von Ende, J.
H. Bush, F. J. Sangster, John Hobe, 
J. W. Basler, Hornbostel, and Gordon 
Durr. Upon recommendation of the 
varsity swimming coach, a special let| t er was awarded to T. C. Wray, cap| lain of the 1928 swimming team. The 
i members of the Freshman swimming 
team who received numerals were: 
j C. C. Williamson, Captain ; R. R. 
j Beech, C. K. Logan, and Willibald 
j Ryshanek.
I J. B. Hughes, a member of the 
Theta Xi fraternity, who was Varsity 
Swimming Manager, was awarded the 
I Varsity Minor C with a bar.
I Fred D. Woods, a member of the 
| Phi Kappa fraternity, a dragon, and 
i j President of the Industries Senior 
| Class, who managed the Freshman 
j Swimming team, was awarded the 
I Varsity Minor C with a bar.
to Pitt by a Big Margin 
of Points
Our friend, Regis M. Welsh, i prob
ably deeply engrossed in writing a 
new article for his eteemed column, 
"Sports of All Sorts. Not so long 
ago he informed his reader of the 
disastrous season which Carnegies 
basket ball team experienced. He 
told them how some athletes had land
ed on the good soil' on the upper 
side of Fifth avenue and how others 
had fallen on the rock, on the low
er- side of that prophetic thorough
fare. It seems as if the good soil has 
once more borne forth good fruit, for 
our neighbors, the Pitt Panthers, 
have walked away with the honors in 
track and field, giving our abovenamed friend another chance to dis
play his knowledge of the parables of 
the Good Book. The rock produced 
but 23 points and the soil, 111.
The only high light of the meet was 
the record-breaking pole vault of Pick
ard, a Pittite, who cleared the bar at 
I 13 feet 1 3-4 inches to establish a new 
I university and tri-state collegiate rec| ord. The Plaids captain, Lockhart,
I garnered his teams only first, win
ding in the 220-yard low hurdles. As 
I a parting word to Mr. Welsh, if he is 
I not too deeply engrossed in his pocket 
j Bible, it must be said that rock is 
I eternal, while soil is liable to be 
washed away by repeated assaults. In 
i other words, next year is another. 
I year.
j The Tartan boys proved, however,
I that even rock can produce atKj letes for, on Saturday, they took the 
: measure of the track men from West; minster, winning by the score of 69 
j to 66. The meet, was interesting unI til the discus was thrown for the last 
j time, that event, the last on the pro! gram, being t he deciding factor in 
jCarnegie's victory. MacFarland of 
; t he Plaid, performed in a remarkable 
manner, scoring 14 points for his 
t.f am.
YTCeIQD
Comes First
When you buy a pair of STRATEEIGHT shoes at *8 you can be abso
lutely certain of this: you've gotten 
your mocfeys worth PLUS! We 
specify maximum quality 3n both 
materials and workmanship in every 
pair. High standards have been facet) 
 and adhered to. And thats why 
STRATE-EIGHT shoes wear so well!
'TARNS FTOR HTL
Store for Meny
<Tbc AVON
A very smart, can- terva lively patterned shoe for tbe younger man. Ideal 
Spring and Summer weight. Tau or black 
imported calf. Rub
ber heels. A "peach" as . $8
Super-Six, Stratt- Eight and Nu - KCO Shoes art bought and 
sold through an association of large stores. 
All lasts and styles art exclusive.
I Waiter D. Bronson, a member of 
the Delta Skull honorary, pledged 
! dragon, and a Senior in Commercial 
j Engineering next year, was elected 
I Varsity Swimming manager for 1929. 
I The election of John 1-Iobe as CapI tain of the Varsity Swimming team 
; for 1929 was confirmed. Robert 
I Wood was elected manager of the
[ Freshman Swiming team for 1929.
1 Albert V. Mcllveen of Bloomington, 
Indiana, was awarded the Varsity 
Major C for baseball for the year 
1912, since it was found upon inves
tigation that he bii^1)een overlooked 
in the awarding of letters at that time.
If was moved that an additional 
basketball game with Waynesburg 
! College be scheduled for Friday night, 
January 4. 1929.
The following men were elected 
first1 assistant basketball managers for 
1929: C. E. Selsam, W. H. Bell and
J. K. Gillett.
j Henry Butz, David Tomer and Wil
son Loos were elected first assistant 
managers of the swiming team for 
1929.
The results of the Westminster 
meet follow:
TRACK EVENTS
100-yard dashWon by Kennedy, 
Carnegie; second, Herbst, Carnegie; 
third, Osborn, Westminster. Time 
: 10 4-5.
120-yard high hurdlesWon by Delahunty, Westminster; second, Lockhard, Carnegie; third, MacFarland. 
Time:17.
220-yard dashWon by Kennedy, 
Carnegie; second, Hartwell, Westmin\ ster; third, Herbst, Carnegie. Time 
' :24.
220-yar,d low hurdlesWon by Lockhard, Carnegie; second, MacFarland, 
Carnegie, third, Peresengi, Westmin
ster. Time:14 5-10.
440-yard dashWon by Hughes, 
Carnegie; second, Crowell, Westmin
ster: third, Fingles, Carnegie. Time 
:53.
880-yard dashWon by Mirtz, West
minster; second, Myers, Westmin
ster; third, McCombs, Carnegie. Time 
2:06.
Mile runWon by Mirtz, Westmin
ster; second, Myers, Westminster; 
third, Campbell, Carnegie. Time 
4:44 2-10.
Two-mile runWon by Salkin, Car
negie; second, Wallace, Westminster; 
third, King, Westminster. Time 
10:35 4-5.
FIELD EVENTS
Broad jumpWon by MacFarland, 
Carnegie; second, Delahunty, West
minster; third, Huptchinson, West
minster. Distance20 feet, 1-4 inch.
High jumpWon by Hutchinson, 
Westminster; second, MacFarland, 
Carnegie; Ludy and Brown, both of 
Carnegie, tied for third. Height5 
feet, 5 inches.
Hammer throwWon by Seigman, 
Carnegie; second, Kousman> Carnegie; 
third, Bucher, Westminster. Dis
tance108 feet, 5 inches.
Javelin throwWon by McMeeltin, 
Westminster; second, Hutchinson, 
Westminster; third, Murray, Carne
gie. Distance154 feet, 8 inches.
Pole vaultWon by Miller, Carne
gie; Delahunty and Hutchinson, both 
of Westminster, tied for second. 
Height10 feet, 6 inches.
ShotputWon by Melziner, Carne
gie; second, Stewart, Westminster; 
third, Bucher, Westminster. Distance 
37 feet, 5 inches.
Discus throwWon by Hutchinson, 
Westminster; seebnd, Stewart, West
minster; third, Murray, Carnegie. Dis
tance111 feet, 6 1-2 inches.
Italian universities open their lec
tures to the public.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Pittsburgh Firms To 
Aid In Night Courses
To Assist in Selecting Courses 
That Will be of Most Ben
efit to Their Employees
"We have observed that although 
many young people have a praise
worthy ambition to succeed, Dr. 
Thomas S. Baker, president of Car
negie Institute of Technology stated 
in discussing the new plan, "they 
sometimes make an unwise selection 
of courses. We believe that the best 
advice in this matter can be giveu 
the student by some one who is 
familiar with his position and pros
pects where he is employed.
An indication of the interest that 
Pittsburgh employers are taking in 
adult education is shown in the an
nouncement of a new co-operative de
velopment effected by thirty-three 
large firms and the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology in connection with 
evening study for men and women 
who are employed by day. In effect, 
the plan places voluntary agents 
of the institution at thirty-three poiuts 
of* contact throughout the district.
For the next college year, it is an
nounced1, each of the thirty-three 
companies in the plan lias appointed 
some qualified person in its organiza
tion who will advise and help to reg
ister employes of that company who 
wish to attend night classes at Car
negie Institute of Technology.
A constantly increasing number 
of firms are showing a disposition to 
help their employees to attond night 
school because they find that, those 
who spend their leisure time In study 
are likely to render a better service 
to the company. At least, one firm, 
when It became necessary to dimin
ish its force, carefully avoided dis
missing employ os who were attend
ing night school.
The now arrangement entered in
to with the thirty-three Pittsburgh 
district employers is a significant 
step forward in adult education and 
is, moreover, a splendid example of 
the co-operation that educational in
stitutions .may find in industry. A 
well-known university dean, after 
having spent a years leave of absence 
in making a nation-wide survey of 
the relationship between education 
and industry, remarked that nowhere 
in the United States is the co-opera
tion between industrial organizations 
and educational Institutions equal to 
that; found in the Pittsburgh district."
That the night courses at Carnegie 
have grown from an enrollment of 
1.101 In 1922 to 3,801 In 1928 Is at
tributed In largo measure by Presi
dent Baker to the co-operation pro
vided by Pittsburgh employers.
The firms that have entered the co
operative arraiigoniont. to haVe their 
own appointed officers advise work 
ors regarding courses of evening 
study are the following: Morris
Knowles, Inc., Pennsylvania Railroad 
Company, Boggs and Buhl, Standard 
Sanitary Manufacturing Company, 
Armstrong Cork and Insulation Com
pany, I-Ieppenstall Forge and Knife, 
j Waverly Oil Works Company, Genj eral Motors Acceptance Corporation. 
National Union Fire Insurance Com
pany, Pittsburgh Equitable Meter 
Company, Union Railroad Company. 
United States Chain and Forging 
Company, Universal Portland Cement 
Company, Kaufmanns Store, Gimbel 
Brothers, Philadelphia Company, McClintic-Marsliall Company, McCreery 
and Company, Miller Saw-Trimmer 
Company, Blaw-Knox Company, Dravo 
Construction Company, Joseph Horns 
Company, Rosenbaum Company, Pitts
burgh, Pa.; Union Switch and Signal 
| Company, Swissvale, Pa.; Westing| house Electric and Manufacturing 
I Company, East Pittsburgh, Pa.; West, ingliouse Air Brake Company, and 
j News Tribune Printing Company, 
jWilmerding, Pa.; Railway and Indus
trial Engineering Company, Greensburg, Pa.; Hockensmith Wheel and 
Mine Car Company, Penn, Pa.; Mesta 
Machine Company, West Homestead. 
Pa.; Standard Sanitary Manufactur
ing Company, Now Brighton, Pa.; 
Pittsburgh and Lake Erie Railroad, 
McKoos Rocks, Pa.
Lawrenco, Kans,  An anonymous 
author has started a row on this Uni
versity of Kansas campus.
Someono banded In a darned good 
story to the editor of the Sour Owl, 
official campus humor magazine. But 
the magazine never runs anonymous 
material, and so all hands set about 
to discover the author.
The editor of the sheet decided to 
run the story anyway. But others ob
jected on the grounds that it would 
hurt the magazine as an advertising 
medium. The editor replied that he 
was running his magazine not for the 
advertisers but for the readers.
They are still trying to settle the 
matter.
-i
. . . in scientific test of 
leading Cigarettes, Princess Paul Chavchavadze
selects
I was much intrigued by the invitation to make 
a blindfold test of your leading brands of Ameri
can cigarettes, to see how they compared with 
each other and with Ihose I had smoked abroad. 
Could one really taste the difference? I wondered.
But when I was handed these cigarettes, one by 
one, I realized at once that there was a difference 
and that the test was conclusive. One cigarette 
was so much more appealing, so much more 
delicate in flavor. Oh, and so much smoother!
When the test was over and I was told that the 
cigarette of my choice was Old Gold 1 understood 
at once why this cigarette is so popular among 
my American friends.
How Test Was Made
Subject was blindfolded, and, in 
the presence of two responsible 
witnesses, was given one each 
of the four leading cigarettes 
to smoke. To clear the taste, 
coffee was served before each 
cigarette. The Princess was entirely unaware of the identity 
of these cigarettes during test. 
After smoking the four ciga
rettes, the Princess was asked to 
designate by number her choice. 
Without hesitation she replied, 
 No. 3,,. which was OLD GOLD.
SMOOTHER AND BETTER - NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

---------------------------------------------------


PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 15, 1928
PITONE MAYFLOWER. 2fi00 
Pubi lulled oncc every w*ik darin# the collow 
year by undcrKradutO0 of C&rnofcto Iniitltut 
of Technology. Entered in the Plttnburjih 
Pont Office an nccond-clann matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-In-Chief ..................Fenton FinnManaging Editor..............Milton Cohen
News Editor. 
Athletic Editor... Womens Editor... Alumni Editor....
.. Margaret Russell 
... .Fred Woods............Jean Roy
...Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clarlc Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bullinger William Rose
A. E. Fisher E. WeaverJohn Schnieder Meredith Stump
Helen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
S. C. Rnlaton Harold JacobsonDorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr. 
E. Jarema 
T. Lippert 
W. W. Hay
C. Park
J. J. Boyle H. N. Melxner 
J. Carpe 
H. Levinson 
W. J. Eason H. Bootli 
, M. Echels 
N. Kline W. H. Worland 
W. II. Martsolf 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I. Shusset 
A. G. Allen
D. K. Tomer 
L. M. Baugh
Ina Ilansell E. Schlesinger
B. Kami
J. I-I. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. ODonnell R. Bramson 
H. Whltehlll 
R. liarr 
A. M. Fisher j. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson
C. F. Ackenhell 
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers 
J. B. Patterson 
E. J. Dattisman
D. II. Barr 
G. H. Merrill
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS . 
Mary Alice James Ludmilla Allen Margaret McConnaugliey 
Helen Zeleznjak.
BUSINESS STAFF 
Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants R. WehrleT. R. Zenc D. H. Gen ter
W. M. Crosby
valent four years ago, however, there 
is an obvious drift toward concentra
tion in this piase of the school's life. 
Many of the smaller, more unsound, 
and purposeless activities have died 
out or are dying out. One thing, how
ever, which seems evident at present 
is the need of a reap portion men t of 
the activities fee. Athletics seem to 
be highly favored under the pfesent 
system. Perhaps this is necessary, 
but at the same time it is quite evi
dent that other worthy activities are 
being starved out... A change will no 
doubt Involve the choice of the lesser 
of two evils. However If Campus 
Week Is over definitely cut out the 
matter will have to be brought to a 
head at once. The student council 
would be unable to carry on It work 
under the present apportionment.
There 1 evident need of student 
representation in certain administra
tive committees. The wheres and 
hows of the breakage deposit could be 
better explained, than at present. Thin 
would remove a so,urce of irritation 
to the student body. It also appears 
that a student representative would 
be helpful to the discipline committee. 
iHe wouud not necessarily be a vot
ing member, rather one who would 
act In one interpretative capacity. It 
is certainly quite obvious that the 
older generation often find difficulty 
in understanding the younger. The 
human element would unquestionably 
be bettered if an interpretation could 
be suggested.
On the. whole the transitions which 
have taken place during the past four 
years have been progressive and 
would indicate that Carnegie is fast 
approaching that stage of tranquility, 
that should prevail in an institution 
of higher learning.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
At first though, it does not appear : tion or originality which is strange to
I the crowd. By and large we fall intoj possible that a movie should incite 
j another squib in the traditional seriI ous vein.
j (Thistledown will remonstrate at 
this, undoubtedly, with his character
istic, pale ardor. But then as every
the habit of judging persons by inci
dental or accidental qualities and fail 
to appreciate thereby their true worth. 
It is easier to live by names and 
stereotypes in the common way. Thus, 
when the recent brave exploit of the
j topic has its less momentous side- 1 trans-Atlantic flight from Europe was 
| lights, we shall leave those to our en- ! concluded, we sent up hosannas, not 
! gaging colleague, who is ever master j te the three individuals concerned, 
j of trivia and persiflage.) j but soon to one Irishman and two
We have reference to that pictorial j Germans. It does not concern us, 
j presentation, entitled The Crowd. i by and large, to think of these indiThere are flashes of penetrating in
sight in this film which send up in 
our neural mechanism somewhere 
(vide the psychology department) 
certain reverberations which are 
usually termed thoughts. Ordinar
ily, the silver screen, is not potent 
enough to stir even the_ smallest of 
insignificant thoughts. But there 
are exceptions and to one customer at 
least, this pictorial drama left an imviduals as personalities unique to* 
themselves. It is easier, following the ' 
journalistic fashion, to seize upon 
some appropriate headline character
ization by which to engulf them into 
a straw-man stereotype, the Gaelic'-'' 
or the German.
(Somewhat similarly, recently, Mr. 
Walter Rogers and he who speaks 
seriously went aloft in an aeroplane 
flight. Had anything untoward hapBOOK REVIEW
' print strong enough to provoke him to Pened, the papers and the readers, 
seriously speak, again. would have heard of the sudden
The point is that in the helter-! termination of the auspicious, hopeful 
skelter, publicity-mad life of today, careers of a popular coming BarryA REVIEW OF NORMAN DOUGLAS 
IN THE BEGINNING
COLLEGE AND SUCCESS
CIRCULATION 
Circulation Manager..
Assistants
G. Brahmst J, Rotli
G. C. Harbison B. Wedner 
A. Teplitz 
M. Malinich R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bottonari II. Rosenberg
STAFF 
Harold Kandell
A. Frank 
A. Haynes
C. E. Blass S. Bluestone 
I. LevinS. Feigenbaum 
J. P. Jones
D. Seville 
G. E. Miller
OfficeRoom 12, Ihduntrtan Building. Office HouruMonday to ThurmlayH. 12:80-1:20 
Paper mudo up Friday, 12:30-0:00.To Iniiurc publication on the nucceedlna 
TuoBilay, now Item munti bo in tho jdudont 
pont office or Tartan Office before 4 :<I0 Thursday.Afttir Office Hour call Scbenley 1490, 
Sclionloy IH40, Scbonlcy 9211.All editorials which aro initialed are contributed by persons other than 
tho editor, unlnitialed editorials are 
those by the editor.
THE TREND OF EVENTS
As one nears the end of four years 
in collogo he Is apt to look back at 
tho whole adventure, perhaps with a 
bit broader perspective than at any 
time In the previous busy years. It 
in with this viewpoint that the follow
ing endeavor to make ti review has 
been submitted.
Cnriiegio Is a very young school 
and like all things which fall within 
this category It Is growing fast, so 
fast, In fact, that one can often see 
nncl fool'the 'ohanges which are tak
ing placo, Pro-eminent among tho 
noticeable changes of the past four 
years Is the change In tho Interests 
of the students. There is moro of tho 
cultural evident than ever before, one 
might say that tho day of tho so-callod 
collegiate has passed at Carnegie. 
Students are more Interested in the 
liner things in life than they were but 
four short years ago. Rah Rah ac
tivities and horse play have fallen 
well into the background, this has 
been evident by the lack of interest in 
Plebe regulations, rancous smokers 
and the like.
Curricula has changed very little at 
Carnegie. It would appear that it 
lacks mainly in the element of liber
alism, however this is a subject which 
has baffled the greatest educators, 
hence one can best pass over it with 
the mentioning in this small space.
The relationship of faculty with stu
dents has become more friendly. Any 
student who regards his instruct
or as an elusive and inhuman 
personage in the college to
day lias only himself to blame. The 
faculty are ready and willing to help 
their students in any reasonable dif
ficulty that may arise, in fact a more 
sympathetic body would be undesir
able.
Student government has gone 
through a period of transition at Car
negie and is still 111 that period. Cer
tainly It is unsatisfactory in some of 
its phasos at prosont. If a suggestion 
may bo offorod one would be inclined 
to believe that ono of the reasons for 
it being as yot quito imperfect may 
be found in the fact that the student 
council 1ms not sot limits in which Its 
authority is effective. Not knowing 
just what the confines may bo it 
often ovorstops itself only to find 
that its action is rendered ineffective 
by administrative committees. The 
result is a feeling of smouldering dis
content among , council members, a 
feeling that the organization has no 
potency. The present discontent that 
is rife is dangerous, in fact, forbodes 
possible destructive revolting acts. If 
steps were taken by school authori
ties toward a definite outlining of stu
dent government authority this condi
tion would no doubt be obliterated.
Extra-curricula activities remain in 
about the same category as^ was preTlie attention of Tartan readers is 
called to an article 011 page four 
which is based upon exhaustive in
quiry 011 the part of one vitally inter
ested in the relationship of college 
to success in life. The article is 
written by Mr. H. A. Smith, Missouri, 
97, and is perhaps the most complete 
work that has been published upon 
the subject. It contains abundant 
proof for the statements made there
in and is consequently to be regarded 
much more seriously than the hitherto 
thooritical treatises 011 this particular 
phase of educational themes.
Of course there. Is much to be said 
against the conclusions drawn. The 
statistics from which it was brought 
about are confined to one college. 
Then, too, the person making the en
quiry was no doubt somewhat biased. 
Tho probable result was perhaps al
ready fixed In Ills mind and the inves
tigation was perhaps' conducted with 
the viewpoint of proving the results.
One observation of the writer 
which appears especially noteworthy 
Is contained in the latter part of the 
article wherein lie sets about to give 
his reasons for the results being as 
I hoy are. Tie brings out. the part 
tliat personality and leadership are 
frequently refloated In grades. High 
griides usually roqulro persistency 
and punctuality as well as Intelli
gence and lo quote the author, Are 
not Intelligence, hard work, faithful
ness and persistency the four corner
stones 011 which practically every 
sound success In life must be built? 
Where Is there, outside of his college 
course, another four years In a young 
mails lift' where these basic qualities 
of a successful later career are so 
constantly tested, and the results so 
carefully recorded? Where can an
other prophesy of the future be based 
011 so much careful data?
The article referred to above may 
not be altogether conclusive but cer
tainly it sounds a word of warning 
to those of us who are apt to sit snug
ly shielded by the delusion that grades 
are a poor criteria for successin 
after brag that success conies chiefly 
to those who flunked out of college 
because they took that element known 
as college life more seriously than 
the studies they were supposed to be 
pursuing.
There now can be no question of it: 
in the field of satiric fantasy and 
prose style there is Norman Douglas 
to be considered. South Wind for 
these years just past has been 011 the 
shelves of those who admire urbanity, 
leisure, wit, and extraordinary imagi
nation. Yet through these years the 
admiring people have felt that Nor
man Douglas belonged to South Wind 
alone; in fact certain of those people
In the Beginning plays delightfully 
and dangerously near the intangible 
line betwen humor and impropriety, 
or, rather, I should say Norman Doug
las does.. Boston and the Very Rev
erend and the Very Prying Dr. John 
Roach Straton may think that the 
line has been boldljr and blandly
we are robbed of our powers of dis
crimination and restraint by falling 
111 with mass-reactions. So many of 
us suffer from the malady of the. mobmlnd. Americans are notoriously 
vigorous and prosperous and enthusi
astic, but all this pure excess of spirit 
lands us into rather pitiful expres
sions, such as clieering-sections at the 
ball games, engrossed audiences at 
the most recent murder trial, or boisThe Beginning, as ! Douglas certain privileges. But lie 
unlike South Wind as to suppose ll!ls not taken them; rather- the that it was written by another man I *- attitude and the really exquicrossed; I can t feel that it has, main-1 ter0Us participation in the humbugly because In the Beginning, as was j gery of the fraternal lodges and secret 
South Wind, seems to be permeated j orders.
with a certain delicacy and rightness 1 , ,T , ... ,, . , .  1 Mr. Charles Merz has written a de-which few authors possess. To view 1  . . . . , e . ! lightfully ironic treatment of thisfrankly, explicitly the non-ethereai | crmv(I.i(lea in his ,.ecent book ,.The
have tried (usually in vain) to read relations between gods and men, or, American Band WaB0Jl/- which
his other.Actions. perhaps, gods and women and god- . )g roconlmem,ed t0 aU (including
Now, ten years after his last novel, desses and men, automatically 6l<* Thistledown), as a work of art.there comes In The Beginning, as | Douglas certain privileges. But lie, The matter (loes not rest here
After all, if the great body, the mass  1 , _ , es, finds sincere enjoyment in thesealtogether; but the fact emerges site AnesSe of his prose convert^ques- inirfmitSi w)10 . can prejudg0 thom? 
from these conjectures that, simply, I tlonable situations into beautiful and l oiimbing 011 the band-wagon to pellet 
Douglas is a writer of more than sin- amusing ones. Further, there is an- the heretic or t0 appiau(i the demagle power, or more than a single pro-1 otj1** quality which distinguishes j g0gUe is as ancient a pursuit, as man. 
clous book. The years between1 have Douglas, and that is a conventional- j have geeUi iiicewise, throngs congremellowed, shaped this creator. There ; ity an(] ormality 111 the carnal epi- , Ratfi Jn front of a window in a Childs 
is now, in place of the discursive | K0(les. Cabell seems to revel, morethan frequently, in manners of per
verseness.
This 1928 Norman Douglas is a 
playful devil: Why not, he must
have said to himself, write concern-1 which is wrought to many individuals, 
structural form. Where there was j ing man and gods before good and ; who are given to indulge in imaginamere humanness and generally direct-! evil were invented, before the world I 7*
ed thrusts of satire amid the flippant i had outlines, when there were garden | j~
formlessness, there is now a ihore | places over the earth; concerning! 
stylized beauty of word-phrase aiid  spring in such a way: 1 j
scene, and 1 far more rapier like in- i "Spring was at hand when the | -------------------------------------------------------
fusion of Satire, a still flexible s..,-lr'--* horses,' every one of them, grew sleek i Note_Iv. S. Ns. review of Midhut one now heightened in emotional and frisky In the new herbage, while j summel. nights Dream will appear in
intensity. ' tlie plain covered itself with blossoms j next -weed's Tartan.
Douglas, ev/h yet, Is by 110 means j 0f many hues; scarlet flamingoes j _
a re-incarnation of the anger and then arrived from far away, and 
vituperative nastiness of Swift, for flocks of doves traveled up stream 
Douglas, at least in stylo, manages to with rush of wing, and long-billed wnstyle and form and casual length of 
South Wind, a briefer literary tool, 
still suggestive of ease and grace,1 but 
with a metered, billowy manner of 
writing and a handleable length and
I restaurant in the. very heart of sophisi ticated New York to watch the expert 
: manipulations of a flapjackker in the 
i midst of his duties.
The difficulty is due to the injustice
more and a budding college prof;)
Another instance come to mind. Re-, 
cently it was related in the newspa
pers that all of the leading members 
of our federal administration were 
members of leading frats and thattheir glory consequently depended 
upon belonging to Alpha Lambda Chi. 
or Delta Omega or any other combin
ation of Greek letters. Hence to. 
achieve national greatness, the short
est cut was tor break into one of these 
organizations.
This is not critical of democracy or 
the rule and dignity of the common 
man. On the contrary, democracy 
will never become a searching reality 
until we can stand forth and refuse to 
succumb to slogans, watchwords, 
epithets, garbled and standardized 
opinions and characterization. The 
crowd behavior is relentless, heart
less because it signifies emptiness 
and lack of purpose and a readiness 
to follow the first current stirred up 
by interested opinion-formers. True 
expression of the democratic sort is 
self-expression.
The crowd sweeps us all along reck
lessly. That is- except for those who 
care to ground themselves firmly and 
refuse to be robbed of their aiitonomy 
of will. For those who dare to do 
this, however, there is a price which 
must be paid in the long run.
NATHAN MILLER.
PLAY REVIEW
, FurtherRemarks on 
Lear.
Mr.
have that aloofness very desirable in 
the satirist. What intensity of con
descending feeling there is in Doug
las is largely colored, or, if you will, 
masked by the highly satisfactory 
finti In somo cases actually brilliant 
use of his proso medium. Douglas 
could hardly, having as lie has ah all 
pervasive good-natiir'o, attain infective 
toward mankind. In this respect I 
must feel that; lie Is like Aliatole 
France and his France's American
. , , . ,, , . , , Now that Mr. Brownes productionstood by the shore, planted : of K|ng Lear ?g ove]. am,  )la8 bad
ample time torevise first impressions, 
certain things are apt to happen, esEut yet thou art-my flesh, my bltr 
my daughter;
Or rather a disease thats in my flesh, 
Which I must needs call mine; thou 
Willsons art a boil,
A plague-sore, an embossed carbuncle. 
In my corrupted blood. .
pensively one one leg. Then, at day 
break, the larks would trill so rap
turously that the blue sky throbbed 
with their cmusic; then, at nightfall, 
those playful prickle-pigs crept shyly 
out of their canebrakes and scam
pered about the sand. A goodly sea-1 
son!
In this and in other scenes of simi
lar luxury wander Immortals and
their lesser playfellows, the mortals,
pecially after one lias re-read the play 
and seen exactly what the late pro
duction has done to it. I, for exam
ple, find that it has, in my case, done 
one thing at least. It lias made Lear 
I a more moving figure; the lines ring 
with the accents of a human voice;
I bright, visual paterns, but not too
or those in Act IV, which the kind 
editors so often expurgate for us, but 
which Mr. Browne had the good sense 
to retain; or, more than anywhere 
else, that scene in which Lear wakes, 
sees Cordelia, and says:
I am bound 
Upon a wheel of fire, that mine own 
tears
Do scald like molten lead. . . 
and further:
felicities of the production are fad- | Pray do not mock me., . . I 'vno null u 1I1U1LUI muuier uuu uie 1 . , Pars timp T am inclined i1 am a very foolish fond old man,but secondarily interested as ctllical Biirth-God, something of a rake, for 110 thhlk Umt the |)a(j partB wj], be j Fourscore and upward, not an hour
disciple, Janies Branch Cabell. All a.nd also their antagonists, the Satyrs, 
three write for the pleasure of writ- Too, there are in-betweens ike Linus 
ing and of writing beautifully, being | who had a mortal mother and the
bright, are woven through the pages; 
and the curious thing is that the in-1
theorists. I a father. And the book tells mainly 1iiill ii.n. iiw.v it- 1 1 I veiy shadowy indeed in the minds of I1 uiuiei, the tlu.ee have otliei sirni-1 how Linus caused , consternation 1111 invii inn wht/ii, ,, j 1 1 1 in . ' ! those ' w ho made up the audiences,,,lantles v>hich 11 e too eMdent and the balls of the Immortals, particu-  i..
too Inevitably to be-considered to be j larfy in ffimection ||i Derco, the j leadlne c,;aracter W|U l0 a great ex.
: tent have faded too; and that his 
great excellences will take on more
igiiored. I have mentioned above the j Fish-Goddess, who saw this stunning 
i field of satiric fantasy and prose j demi-god, pined for him, and came to j 
style; for of that field these three j regret the attraction. The book tells j 
j occupy knportant and brilliant places, | also of the decline of men.- 
considerably above the other partlci-1 But perhaps you are not interested j 
I pants; they have equipped themselves ! in the decline of man; in that case!
I with happy and scintillant phrases, the matter of Linus and Derco and ' . .e ruu C01lfirmed the writer in this
they have chosen largely unknown | Symira will divert and amuse you. ! l)inion- 0u that night Mr. Wilson' 'was obviously weary, depressed, too,
more or less;
And, to deal plainly,
I fear I am not in my perfect mind. 
Methinks I should know you and 
know this man;
Yet I am doubtful: for I am mainly 
and more life and glamour with the j  ignorantyears | What place this is, and all the skill
To see a performance near the end
A FAREWELL
I have
Remembers not these garments, nor 
I know not
 R R D D D n , . I Where I did lodge last night Do notand sometimes originally created And, too. the splendidness of Douglas was 0bvl0uslJr weary, depressed, too, ]augh at
worlds for the locales of their stories, as a person of prose-powers will satis- it: seemed; and for that precise reason 1 For as 1 am a man I think this lady . . . Ins T.pnv was mnpli snrprir>r snvo in ! J
With this issue of The Tartan the 
staff of 1927-2S lays down its pen and 
hands over the reins of control to a 
new staff. There is a certain feeling 
of regret but this has been softened 
by that of satisfactionsatisfaction 
at least in part. The year has been 
one of progress as regards organiza
tion and growth. The staff has work
ed as a unite throughout the year 
and have made possible an eightpage Tartan for Carnegie, with all of 
its evidont advantages.
The new staff is a most competent 
one and will carry on any work which 
has boon started even better than be
fore. There will undoubtedly be new 
developments as well, as a continuance 
of those which have alroady started. 
All in all, the year 1928-29 should bo 
an epoch making one in the annals 
of Phe Tartan.
WHEN TO GO TO COLLEGE
Where each child moved along 
through school at a pace best suited 
to his or her individual growth and 
unfoldmont, the question of the prop
er age at which to enter college 
would probably never come up for 
general discussion. But wiiile the 
public education in the United States 
is conducted for the mass rather than 
for the individual, the question of age 
has to be determined largely by stan
dards which are both general and ar
bitrary. Standardization of school
they play with the Rabelaisan joy i.fy you who read too much by too 
(prettified and rarified and lyricized, I many people who write like Theodore 
to be sure) of the less ideal side of j Dreiser or worse, 
the question of the sexes. j e. W. W.
systems throughout the country has 
been such as to cause almost every
one to take it for granted that the 
schools would turn out students ready 
for college at about the age of 18. 
There is somewhat of a stir, there
fore, when some school sj'stems begin 
graduating their boys and girls in 11 
years instead of 12, and when a col
lege authority' like A. Lawrence Low
ell, president of Harvard, recom
mends, as he did in his annual report 
and in an address before a large body 
of educators recently, that high 
schools allow pupils to graduate at 16 
or 17 yea-rs of ago, and that these he 
permitted to outer college at once.
This last, plea has Immediately 
called out widely differing replies 
from two largo groups of educators,
But progressive school men base 
their remarks upon the idea that age 
in years has little to do with it. They 
feel that the first consideration should 
be, Has the young man reached the 
place where he is socially ready to 
make the great change that going 
from high school to college entails? 
Has he-reached a certain maturity of 
point of view, which will make it rea
sonably easy for him to adjust him
self to the radically different ways of 
living and modes of study?
Because a student is mature aca
demically does not mean that he is 
mature in other ways. The progres
sive branch of low'er education fur
ther maintains that if the college
the department of superintendence of ',Us 11,0 "'"'Utional type of applicant
the I^atlonal Education Association 
and tho progressive school men.
Frank D. Boynton, the new presi
dent of the department of superinten
dence, says that the high schools do 
graduate pupils 16 and 17 years old; 
that, he knows several schools where 
one-tliird of the graduates each year 
run under 17 years of age. He further 
declares that "colleges have to be pe
titioned to make exceptions and to 
admit these children who are gradu
ated so young that the colleges dont 
want them.
who stores away bundles of knowl
edge and who has learned to think 
for himself, then a longer period of 
preparation is usually necessary.
C. S.' M.
his Lear was much superior, sav 
one respect, to that of any other per
formance I had seen. He still gave 
too much exaggeration to his voice, 
but except for that his Lear was 
splendid and extraordinarily moving. 
Why it should have seemed so much 
better I do not know, unless it was 
that, having seen the play a fortnight 
before, I had been able in the interval
To be my child Cordelia. ... .
In all these scenes, Mr. Willsons
voice speaks through the printed
lines, gives them life, and does not
fall very far short of arousing in at
least one reader the feelings of pity
and awe an old Greek philosopher
once said should be called forth by
.  , f sreat tragedy, and the true actingto accept the inevitable limitations of Df it
student production of Lear, and so 
could ignore them at last. It is true 
that none but the leading character 
underwent this metamorphosissav
Mr. Lewis, perhaps, who had gained;*11 Machine Wreckers with
In four years Mr. Willson has gone 
long way: one needs but to com
pare his interpretation of the old man 
that
more assurance in his part, and was 
in the moments of tragedy quite sat
isfying, and often more than that. 
The other members of the cast remain
of Ann Vercors in The Tidings, and 
finally with this Lear, to realize how 
far he has gone on the hard road every 
actor must take to recognition. There
they were, and so the reading of three or four graduates of Carnethe play, in many portions, is not 
pleasant.
Not so in Lears case, and one can 
read the book without too tyrannigie, and, more especially, there is
one, whose Drama School reputation
will be recounted with considerable
pride for some time to come. It
. ,, . . . , seems now that Mr. Willson may becally vivid an impression of the late ; n,.  , , * .. . , . added to that very select company,production in his mind. Except for ^ J
tho first scene, which never was con-If he does gain that coveted place
vincing, either in the book or on the :  J Merve i ^ T ear"edit' 
stage, and most of Scene IV in he f068 hen
act, Lears speeches are now " llee n'5 Wa' and w01'k; thero
The Glass Industry for April con
tains an article by Professor Trinks 
on The High Cost of Fuel Saving. 
Professor Trinks had presented a pa
per on this subject at the first national 
meeting of the American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers Fuel Section, 
which was held in St. Louis last fall.
same
for me full of a powerful and a tragic 
quality proceeding directly from au
ditory images of Mr. Willsons voice, 
which quality it would otherwise have 
been necessary to leave to the imagi
nation. Lears three curses of
Goneril, for example; or his scene 
with Gloucester before the stocks; or 
his lines:
are fine things in store for him.
______________ K. S. N.
State College, Pa.  The student 
council at Penn State College has ap
pointed a committee to make recom
mendations for the throwing out of all 
college traditions which have become 
antiquated, and to make suggestions 
for new traditions to take their
