SENIOR BALL 
THURSDAY NIGHT 
GET YOUR TICKET NOW
VOL. XVIII NO. 29CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1924
ROSLYN SCOTT 
ADJUDGED BEST 
LOOKING GIRL
RIFLE CLUB WILL ELECT OF
FICERS FOR NEXT YEAR
Unanimous Approval of Coles 
Phillips, Charles Dana Gib
son, and Tony Sarg Won 
by Fair Damsel
EV. HELLMAN SECOND
When Tony Sarg sent in his judg
ment for the Thistle Beauty Contest, 
the editor merely added up the scores, 
and closed the books for the entire 
affair. The winner has been picked 
and the others have received their 
ratings.
It was planned to announce the win
ner at the assembly on April 8th, but 
Mr. Sarg did not send in the votes in 
time, and it was thought that the vot
ing for the~^ Campus Week Queen 
might be influenced by this choice, so 
the awarding of the cup will take 
place in the near future.
In order to explain to the students 
the manner in which the contest was 
run, it will be only necessary to state 
the scoring method. The. places were 
recorded in the books of the editor, 
and they were given numbers, which 
ran from one to six. The choice for 
first place received six points, the sec
ond place five points, and so on, until 
the last place was given one point. 
Then, at the end of the contest, the 
points were added, and the winner 
picked by the number of points , she 
had accrued.
The judgments are as follows:
Coles Phillips.
First place .. SE.................Roslyn Scott
Second place...............Evelyn Heilman
Third place ............ Helen Daugherty
Fourth place .....Ada Borgerding
Fifth place ................Phoebe Henning
Sixth place ..................... Betty Matter
Hon. Mention ..............Virginia Seibert
Charles Dana Gibson.
First place .........................Roslyn Scott
Second place .............Evelyn I-Iellman
Third place ............. Bortha Ohrman
Fourth place ..............Roberta Speers
Fifth place ..................... Lois Bragdon
Sixth place ......................Anna Wittum
Tony Sarg.
First place .....................Betty Matter
Second place,................. Roslyn Scott
Third place ................Virginia Seibert
Fourth plape ........., p^oebe Henning
Fifth place ................ Bertha Ohrman
Sixth place .............Betty Constantine
Seventh place ...........Martha Hutson
Eighth place .............S'ara Karsteter
Then, placing the competitors: 
(Continued on Page Two.)
There will be a meeting of the 
Rifle Club in Room 60, Science build
ing at 7:30 p. m., Wednesday, April 
23rd.
The purpose of this meeting is to 
hold an election of officers for ne\. 
year; to decide upon the matter of 
club pins, and consider the designs 
which will be submitted; as .well as 
attend to other business that should 
come before the club at this time.
This is an important meeting, so 
it Is urged that all Rifle Club mem
bers be present.
NOMINEES ELECTED 
FOR COUNCIL PRES.
New Pres, to be Chosen from 
Group of Matter, Kallfelz 
Newman and Steumpfle
Reporter Discovers 
Lone Woman in Blue
Bandana Gang as Notorious 
Ruffians Are Revealed
Nominations for candidates for 
president of the Student Council were 
elected - as follows: Science. Midge
Matter: Industries, Mike Kalfelz;
| Arts, Obie Newman; Margaret Morri
son, Mary Steumpfle.
One of these 'four will be chosen 
President of the Council for next year 
by the present council, probably at 
the next meeting. The job requires 
lots of work, and no mean ability so 
the final choice will be awaited with 
interest by the student body. All of 
the candidates are well known on the 
Campus, and all have done good work 
for Carnegie Tech. All are at present 
scholastically eligible, so the person 
chosen will undoubtedly be the most 
able of the lot, in the opinion of the 
present Council, which certainly is 
competent to judge.
Midge Matter is president of the 
Junior Science Class, a member of 
the Student Council, captain-elect of 
next years basket ball team, a mem
ber of Sigma Nu, the Druids, Theta 
Tau and Delta Skull. He has been 
one of the most active men in the 
Science School as long as he lias 
been in school.
Mike Kalfelz is a Junior in Indus
tries. Treasurer of the Industries As
sembly, Treasurer of the Thistle 
Board, a. member of Pi Kappa Alpha, 
the Druids, and Delta Skull. He was 
chairman of the Junior Banquet Com
mittee.
Obio Newman is a Junior in the 
Arts School, President of the Junior 
Class, Y. Cabinet, member of the 
football, baseball, and basket hall 
squads; member of Druids and Delta 
Skull; Athletic Association. He is 
noted for his songs and Negro repre
sentations.
Mary Steumpfle is Junior in Marga
ret Morrison, a member of the Stu
dent Senate Athletic Board, M. M 
Guild and Teknon Club. She is one 
of the most active .members of her 
class and is one of the most popular 
girls in tlie school.
Just when, the new president will 
be installed is not yet known. Last 
-year, the new president and the new 
council were presented to the students 
at^ the vaudeville1 show with which 
Campus Week was opened. While it 
Is quite probably that this same pro(Continued on Page Four.)
FIFTEEN GIRLS 
NOMINATED FOR 
CAMPUS QUEEN
Queen and Her Hand Maidens 
to be Garbed in Costume of 
17th Century France for 
the Royal Crowning
VOTE AGAIN APRIL 29
Back in the days of Louts XVI the | 
motto of the court was All for I 
Pleasure,, and the real rule was con- j 
ducted by the famous and beautiful 
women of the age. They set the 
pace of fashion far ahead of law and 
order, and the men .forsook their 
more solemn pursuits and began a 
mad chase after an alluring Fash
ion, in her magnificent hoop-skirts 
and coquettish slippers.
Who can say, then, what the effect 
on Carnegie men will be when our 
fifteen fair ones appear on Corona
tion day, garbed in the identical dress 
of that former period. Will they cast 
aside slide rules and mathematical 
plotted curves and follow at the 
heels of OUR beauties? We know 
they are strong-minded, but are they 
strong-minded enough to remain un
affected by the sight of fifteen beauti
ful maidens in lovely bodiced dresses 
with beautifully full skirts, and with 
ruffles and lace, curls and beauty 
patches galore! 1 Poor men, you 
havent a fighting chance!
For look ye! Our maidens will 
combine, not only the dainty Seven(Contlnued 011 Page Three.)
DRAMATS WILL PRESENT
RICHARD III. THIS WEEK
Annual tribute to the birth of Wil
liam Shakespeare will be celebrated 
by the production of "The Tragedy 
of King Richard the Third." The 
play will open in the Little Theater, 
next Wednesday evening, April 23. 
with performances also announced 
for Thursday and Saturday evenings. 
On Friday (Exhibition Night) a 
scene from the play will be shown 
twice.
B Iden Payne, the New York pro
ducer, who is a visiting professor in 
the Department of Drama, has been 
at the institute for several weeks di
recting the production.
NIORRBARLTBHLN 
UDYGC KWVD.X29XF
Yellow Campus Week Jour
nal Displaced by Conser
vative Publication
Tau Beta Pi Pledges 
Seven at Gen. Assem.
Dr. Baker Announces For
tunate Juniors
There is'a girl in the Blue Ban
dana gang!! Of course there should 
always be a woman in the case, but 
no one expected a Avoman in this 
caseat least only one woman!! Tis 
true, however, for Jean Blake plays 
. the one and only woman part in the 
Campus Week Show, which lias been 
written by Hubert Osborne, and will 
be played at the Schenley Theater, 
May 15th and 17th, for the students 
and Alumni, and will be played next 
year on Broadway.
The cast has been chosen, and the 
parts have been alotted, Paul Mc
Grath, Phil Thorne, Ben Weinblatt, 
and Charles Dickey being among 
those chosen to play. The rehearsals 
have been begun, and the cast is al
ready interested in the project. Of 
course it is a great thing to be among 
the original cast of a successful show, 
so these people are working hard to 
(Continued on Page Two.)
TWO CUPSIOFFERED 
FOR MARKSMANSHIP
Entries are still open for the two 
marksmanship cups offered for the 
highest scores in rifle shooting. One 
is being offered by the Castle Hono
rary Military Fraternity, competition 
for which is open to members of any 
unit of the Ii. O. T. C., and the other 
it to be given by Captain Lyons, to 
be competed for by student members 
of the Engineer Unit.
The Castle Honorary Military Fra
ternity is offering a cup for the high
est score registered in any R. 0. T. 
C. rifle match. The competition is 
open to members of all units of the 
R. O. T. C. The high men to date 
are J. C. Jarema, 342 points out of a 
possible 400, L. C. Hughes, 316 out of 
400, and R. D. Gaylor, 294 out of 400. 
The competition is still on and all 
R. O. T. C. men who have had any 
experience at all in rifle shooting are 
urged to enter.
Captain Lyons, head of the Engi
neer Unit, is offering a cup, competi
tion for which is open to students en 
rolled in the Engineer Unit of the R. 
O. T. C.. the man who registers the 
highest score in any of the four' pos: 
tions to be the winner, the score tj 
be certified by the member of the 
Regular Army personnel. The com
petition closes May 1.
At the General Assembly on April 
S the Tau Beta PI, National Engineer
ing Honorary, pledged its new mem
bersMcClelland, Rossini, Slye, Bltner, Joynt., Hopkins and Rugge.
Every spring Tau Beta Pi selects 
men from the highest eighth of the 
junior class, and in the fall tho high
est sophomore and men in the upper 
quarter of the senior class are elig
ible.
The men are selected 011 scholastic 
ability and interest shown in school 
activities. Only men who have never 
received scholastic censure are elig
ible.
Tho Tau Beta PI is the highest 
honorary fraternity which coniines 
itself solely to engineers. It was. es
tablished in 1918, and ever since It 
lias been tho aim and ambition of 
every science man to wear tho Tau 
Beta key.
Dr. Baker called the men and com
mended them on their achievement. 
Members ol' the honorary prosented 
the pledges with their pledge pins.
When Campus Week rolls around 
again, that remarkable daily, The 
Campus Scavenger, now flaunting 
the title "The Sporran" as its oflicial 
cognomen, will again appear on the 
campus, and once more Carnegie will 
tender homage to its exquisite wit and 
clever composition.
The Sporran, as the publication has 
been renamed, appears only during 
Campus Week, being issued daily. 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, and 
is edited by a staff selected by Pi 
Delta Epsilon from the most skillful 
writers on the campus. As a natural 
result of this careful selection the 
"Sporran is able , to offer material 
of the highest quality and consider
able pains will be taken to insure 
that all copy meets the high standard 
which may be expected.
The name has beon changed this 
year to indicate that the Sporran" 
will be totally dissimilar from the 
"Scavenger of last year. The pedi
greed hokum and sophisticated bunk 
of the latter will bo entirely dispensed 
with for it is not tho desire of the 
staff to run In competition with either 
the Puppet or tho Shilling. The Spor
ran is strictly a news organ and will 
operate as such; It will differ from 
the Tartan, howover, In that the 
events and occurrences will be pro
sented in a humorous fashion that 
will amuse while 11, informs.
Sporran, It. may bo oxplained for 
the.$)eneflt of tliOse who do not know 
and this Includos most of the stu
dents and alumniIs the name ap
plied to the furry pouch which the 
Scotchman wears at the. girdle of his 
kilt and wherein resides tho doreon, 
pocket flask, and Beechnut. As truly 
versatile as this hirsute appurtenance, 
tho Daily Sporran will prosont nows, 
humor, and announcements; at the 
baseball game 11. will preserve tho 
cleanliness of milady's skirt, or, per
haps tlie young man Is careful of tho 
seat of his trousers; In lieu of a 
luncli-bpx It should serve very well; 
and in case of rain-Heaven forbid 
It will protect the trim Easter bonnet 
and the School Girl complexion from 
a washout until a haven of. rofugo Is 
found. Any remnants may bo pro(Continued on Page Two.)
CARNEGIE SONG 
BOOK STAFF TO 
BE PERMANENT
Student Council Authorizes 
Organization of New Body 
Andrews, Rossini, Gari
baldi, Head Song Book Staff
SECOND EDITION SOON
The Student. Council has authorized 
the establishment of a permanent or
ganization, which will control the 
compilation, publishing, sale and dis
tribution of all future editions of tho 
Carnegie Song Book. The constitution 
of tho new Carnegie Song Book Staff 
has been submitted to the Student 
Council for approval.
Alfred S. Andrews* who served as 
chairman of the Song Book Commit
tee. has been named Editor-In-Chief 
of the Carnegie Song Book Staff. 
Frederick D. Rossini, treasurer of the 
former committee, is the Business 
Manager of the new organization, 
and Estelle Garibaldi, formerly secre
tary, will serve as Managing Editor.
Other positions will be occupied by
A. E. Krogli, Assistant Editor; 
Thomas J. Dempsey, Jr., Assistant 
Business Manager; and Margaret McFall, Assistant Managing Editor. 
There remain to be filled, five re
sponsible positions 011 the staff, and 
there are openings for fifteen lower 
classmen. Any day student; In any 
of the four colleges Is eligible for 
places 011 the staff, and appointments 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
Dormites to Waltz to 
Hughes Syncopation
Annual Dorm Dance Will be 
Held Saturday Nite
Arrangements for the annual mens 
dormitory dance, which Is to bo hold 
next; Saturday evening In Ilio Union, 
are nearing completion, the latest ad
dition to tho program bolng tho se
lection of .10V Hughos Dance Orch
estra to furnish tho harmony. Pro
grams arc being doslgnod especially 
for I.I10 occasion by Kevin OCallaglinn, of tho Applied Arts dopartjnont, 
and promise to bo very clovor and 
original.
All rosldonts of tho dormitorios aro 
especially urged to attend, but a 
hearty invitation is also extended t 
non-rosldonts and Carnegie students 
In genoral. Tho evening will bo sueoossfully culminated with the serving 
of light refreshments. Tho hours are 
from 9 till 12, and the nssossmont 
Is but one and a half Iron men.
Tickets may bo secured from any 
of the following committee, or from 
the dorm presidents: Duncan Dolg,
chairman; Dave Garbor, S'tu' For-, 
sytil and Ed. Good.
WHICH OF THESE MAIDENS WILL BE CAMPUS QUEEN?
Top row, left to rightMary Heilig, Victoria Weedy, Louise Porter, Blair Jessup, Marjory Cook, Miriam Bond, Adah 
Bottom rowJo Gibson, Eleanor Meckienberg, Gretchen Hoffman, Helen B. Johnson, Rosalyn Scctt. Mary Skurky, Franc 
^v-^ monds and Eilizabeth Lewis are not on the picture.
Eorgcrding. 
is McCly
SPRING CHEERLEADING
CLASSES BEGIN TOMORROW
Tho spring cheerleaders classes 
will begin this (Wednesday) after 
noon in the field house. All men Who 
are Interested in choerleadlug, and 
who have ever done any of that kind 
of work aro urged to report. We are 
very much in need of some good men 
for this work, so lets all who aro in
terested show up. Practice will be 
held twice a. week until Campus 
Week, the afternoons to be decided 
later.
SENIOR BALL WILL 
BE HELD THURSDAY
Collegiate Imps Engaged for 
Formai Function at Uni
versity Club
At last, the beginning of the end. 
The Senior Ball, the last big social 
function for tho class of 24 is set 
for Thursday, April 26, at tho Uni
versity Club. Can you imagine it, 
you Seniors? You have reached that 
stage in your college career where, 
after 0110 more grand splurge, there 
will be 110 moro class dances to look 
forward. Makes one feel lcinda old 
and decrepit doesnt it?
Well, its only two moro days, and 
you should have your tickets by now. 
If you havent, you can get them from 
your section loadors, if you aro in 
Science of Industries; and from Ed 
Couso or Sonneman, if you are In tho 
Arts School. Now, If you havo a tux, 
and a girl, youre all sot.
Thoros 110 oxcuso for not going. 
You havent had a chance to spend 
tho money you got over the Easter 
vacation; any of tho girls will bo 
glad to go; and youll miss ono of tho 
dances which aro always long to bo 
romomborod after you aro through 
school.
Tho committee has obtained a flno 
hall; the orchestra you all know, the 
Colloglato Imps; and Ohio Nowman 
will ontortaln. What m'oro Is thoro 
to say. Tho danco will bo from nine 
til ono, and tho tlckots cost throo dol
lars por oach,
F. C. Hoenniger Will 
Lead Y Next Year
Max Bastian Elected Vice 
President; Seaman Sec.
Tlie Y. M. C. A. hold Its annual 
lection of ofllconi last week, ayd' the 
large number of nioniberp voting was 
vory gratifying. II. wan larger than 
vor before. The results of. I,ho elec
tions are F, 0. Hoonnlgor, president, 
Max Bastlan, vice prosldent; Fete Heman, secretary, TI10 selection of tho 
members for noxt years cabinet Is be
ing carried 011 at present and Its per
sonnel will bo announced soon.
The Installation of the new officers 
will bo hold tho last week In April, 
At that time tho old and now cabinets 
will bo prosont and a Very appropri
ate ceremony will bo used In tho In
stallation.
Mr. Al Irwin has beon appolntod to 
tho Conwultteo of Management in 
place ol! Mr. Horaco Nichols who had 
to resign owing to business reasons. 
Mr. Nichols has done wonderful serv
ice during his term 011 the Committee 
of Management, and it will be a great 
loss to us. Wo wish all kinds of suc
cess to Al In his new appointment.
There havo been plenty of appli
cants for the convention to be held at 
Silver Bay In June. This is the ono 
big convention the College Ys" try 
to send as many delegates to as pos
sible. The good derived from these 
conventions cannot be measured in 
any terms, because the best leaders 
in Young Mens Christian work are 
there, and each man has a vital mes
sage, All fellows who are interested 
in this please stop In the office and 
sign up.
ENTIRE SCHOOL 
WILL BE OPEN 
FRIDAY NIGHT
Annual Exhibition Night to 
be Marked by Several New 
FeaturesTo Show Stud
ent Activities
GYM WILL BE OPENED
On Friday evening, April 25, from 
7:30 to 10:30 oclocic, the school will 
be open for inspection. Men and 
women will be at work in all the 
laboratories, shops, drafting rooms 
and studios, in all four colleges. The 
new gym will be ready for visitors, 
musical recitals and scenes from 
plays will bo given under the aus
pices of the College of Fine Arts. No 
tickets will be required for admis
sion, and all students are urged to 
extend cordial invitations to their 
families and friends. This is the one 
occasion upon which the public is in
vited to see students of tho Institu
tion at work.
In the College of Engineering, the 
following rooms are a few of thoso 
which may he Inspected: Hydraulic 
Lab., Mineralogy Lab., Drafting
Rooms, Heat and Light. Labs., and 
Radio Lab. Collogo of Industries: 
Foundry, Concrete and Masonary
Shop (bungalow built by students on 
exhibition), Printing Shop, Heating 
and Ventilating Lab., Sheet Metal 
Shop, and Plumbing Shop. College of 
Fine Arts: Scene from Richard III,
Recital by Department of Music, In
spection of Music Library, Organ
Rooms, Costumo Rooms, Still Life 
Studios, Advertising Design Studios, 
and Sculpture Studio. Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie Collogo: Exhibit, of
Microscopic Work, Physics Exhibit, 
Exhibit of Modol Gowns (In Clothes 
Shop), Demonstration of Club Activi
ties by Social Work Department, Do}\lgn and Dyeing Rooms, Wonvlng, 
Typewriting Accuracy Tests, Filing 
and Indexing, and Food Exhibit. Now 
Gynaslum: Womens Locker Room,
Filtration Plant, Mens Locker Room, 
Women's Club Room, Swimming 
Pool, Mons and Women's Gym
nasiums, and Boxing and Wrestling 
Room.
In Langley Laboratory, the Kiltie 
Band will glvo coucorts during tho 
evening, while Motion Pictures aro 
shown of Student Activities and Foot
ball games of tho past season.
Vivacious Vaudeville 
Versatile Venture
Vengeful Villians, Vaporous 
Visions, Vie Vehemently
The vaudeville show ror Campus 
Week this year will bo held on Thurs
day morning as usual. Tho show la 
under, I he management of Herb Poloslo, whose reputation Is su(Helent 
around Carnegie Tech to Insure a 
large audience. Herb assures us that 
the show will bo bettor than over, If 
not moro so, and has given out a 
tentative program of his acts.
Tho opening feature will bo callod 
tho Spirit of Campus Week, and will 
bo laid in a forest of gigantic bottles 
of Scotch. The cork will blow out of 
tho central bottle with a loud Pop, 
and a member ol! the Drama Depart
ment will rise majestically in the 
fumes. There is lots of competition 
for this role. As tho Spirit floats 
gently to the center of the stage, it
I is met by tho spirits of all the other 
Campus Weeks gone by. We think
I that this act will be all wet.
I The second act is an acrobatic 
stunt, featuring^a design school girl 
and an engineer. The athletic stunts 
are pulled in a Morris chaty, in which 
tho girl sits with the fellow, and they 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Council President Hard to Handle
Now Mixed Up in Big Oil Scandal
By Don Gardner.;
Last week at the semi-monthly 
meeting of the Student Council of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, the 
oily arrivals found a mountain of 
scandalous literature littering up the 
desk of the Napolean of politics of 
that institution.
Pamphlet upon pamphlet presented 
itself to the ga/.e of the astonished 
councilors an thoy paused in their 
perusal of the worthy proxy's special 
deliveries from Kansas City. When 
the president himself entered a few 
moments later he found a group of 
very much nou-plussed and scandal
ized councillors seated I11 judgment 
before him.
Tho meeting was duly called to or
der, an.I then the storm broke. Those 
councillors who can read English had 
availed themsclve^ of tho opportunity 
of discovering how to know one's 
oil," as tho old proverb goes; by 
diligently reading the swan song ol' 
one quartet composed of Denby, 
Daugherty, Domeny and Day. In con 
sequence when they noticed the big 
boss with a new top coat, a slioeshine and two stogies peeking out 0? 
his vest pocket and then glanced surreptitously at the mass of engraved
hokum relative to the years crop of 
petroleum resting malevolently on 
his roll-top, they put two and two to
gether and rolled seven.
There was no need of calling for re
marks, and it was more than evident 
that every one there assembled was 
not only ready but anxious for tho 
question, as "Robert's Rules for Or
dering puts It. The eyes were all on 
tho same side, so thoro was nothing 
loft for President T. N. Jiggs to do 
but to attempt to smother tho smoul
dering flames of suspicion by pouring 
his oily eloquence upon tho troubled 
watchers.
'Gentlemen and ladlOB of the Coun
cil, says he In a clarion Voice, which 
blow open the mall boxes In the postofllco and caused the fraternity men 
within a radius of ton blocks to re
turn their respective dlstross signals; 
Ladies and gentleman of the Coun
cil, boar with 1110. Complete and 
omnipotent as the facts appear, let 
mo assure you that the evidence is 
completely and intrinsically circum
stantial. My road has been a hard 
one. My interests are in no way con
cerned with Teapot Dome or the Mah 
Jong peril." (Loud cheers from thej 
(Continued on Page Two.)
EXHIBITION NIGHT 
FRIDAY, APRIL 27 
j BRING YOUR FRIENDS t________________

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1924
Annual Home Concert 
Scheduled for May 2
CARNEGIE SONG BOOK STAFF
TO BE PERMANENT
VIVACIOUS VAUDEVILLE
VERSATILE VENTUREFOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIEPublished every week by undergraduatea of tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under tho supervision of tho Student Council.(Continued From Page One.) 
will be made on a competitive basis., 
ft is very likely that award of inslgnlos to staff members will* begin 
with the year 192*1-1925.
The work of the new Carnegie Song 
Book Staff will include the gathering 
and compiling of songs and yells, and i 
the editing, publishing, sale and dis
tribution of all future editions of the 
Carnegie Song Book. The staff will 
also take over campus work, which 
will promote harmony at Carnegie. 
Dissemination of knowledge of all 
Carnegie songs and yells on the 
campus will be one of the chief duties 
of the new organization.
'the immediate work of the Song 
Boole Staff is the publication and dis
tribution of the second edition of the 
Carnegie f3ong Book. The second 
edition is for 1,000 copies. The con
tract has already been let to the Otto 
Zimmerman Company of Cincinnati,
O., who published the first edition, 
and the book will appear on the 
campus shortly before the end of the 
current school year.
Mail orders for copies or the Song 
Book are now being accepted from 
Carnegie Alumni. These reservations 
can be made by sending ONE DOL
LAR AND TEN CENTS per copy to 
the CARNEGIE 'SONG BOOK STAFF. 
Box 65. Carnegie Tech Postoffice. 
Students who wish to reserve copies 
of this second edition may do so by 
entering reservations for mail orders 
in the same manner as alumni. All 
preliminary orders will be filled in 
the order of their acceptance.
One hundred copies of the second 
edition of 1,000 books have already 
been reserved for orders received.
(Continued From Pago One.) 
aro pretty hot. First of all, the fel
low pulls a good one, called the 
Garter. It's pretty snappy. But we 
won't tell you all of it. The stunt. 
are hair-raising, and have been per
fected only by long practice, at least 
this girl and fellow have been at it v 
long time.
The third is a song and dance. Tho! 
scent; Is in front of Negris Inn at 1 
o'clock In the morning, and the male 
quartet come out tight, but happy, 
and sing. This act will be featured 
by several new vocal numbers, some 
of them are well known, but youll 
never recognize them.
The fourth will be a one-act
tragedy. It Ib called O Death, Where 
Is Thy Sting?" When the story opens 
the heroine is poor, but pure. She in 
taken on ;m auto ride by her un
scrupulous employer, and we discover 
that she is too tired after her days 
work to walk back. The curtain goesup when he is telling her true lover 
that she Is not a bad girl, but that 
she slipped, due to a push by her em
ployer. Tlie lover Is horrified, and 
grabs a gun and runs out and shoot a 
the unscrupulous employer and six or 
seven others. While he is out, the 
heroine, overcome by her conscience, 
takes magnesia, and passes out. When 
the lover returns and finds her lying 
on the little threadbare rug, he hangs' 
himself to the chandelier. The cur
tain falls on the sad spectacle of the 
poor girl, curled up on the thread
bare rug, and tlie hero dangling by 
the chandelier. This is one of tho 
high spots of the show.
The fifth act is a burlesque on the 
Arts Ball. The costumes are taken 
from life, and are said to be really 
deceiving. The sixth act represents 
a game of strip poker in one of the 
dorms. The whole point to the act 
Is the language used by the players;, 
and the clever little remarks they 
make on the side. This act has been 
written by one of the Campuss most 
clever writers. If you have ever been 
in a poker game at the dorms, you 
will know What to expect. If you. 
havent, come around and complete 
your education.
The last act is a grand finale to 
what lias gone before. * A chorus ap
peals, and several good song hits are 
attempted. The comedian will be 
none other than Herb Polesie himself. 
Herb wants this act to be kept a 
strict secret until the time comes, 
for he says that Dean Brown has a 
most peculiar prejudice to several 
things about the girls which he is go
ing to pull off.
The opening act will start promptly 
at 10:30, and any who miss the pop
ing of the cork will be sorry. Due to 
the good-will of the faculty, all 
classes will be suspended at 5:30 
Wednesday, and there will be no 
classes whatever on Thursday. But 
this does not mean that the parade, 
which has become traditional for that 
day, will be missing. On the con
trary, the parade will be bigger and 
bettor than ever. The parade will 
start promptly nt 9:15 in front of the 
Central  Building, and will march 
down lo the Music Hall, headed by 
tho Kiltie Band and the Cast of 
Actors, in costume. We might men
tion that tho chorus girls for tho last 
act will ho compelled to wear dress
ing robes and slippers.
Entered in tho Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.Will be Followed by Usual 
Dance
JSDITOIMN-CHIEirSchenley 914!H. F. SIMPSON
BUSINESS MANAGERIliland 4011-JOwing to a conflict In the Carnegie 
Music Hall dates the Home Concert 
will be held in tho Schenley Theater, 
Instead of tho Music Hall, The date 
and time remain the same May 3 
and 8 p. m. sharp.
Ticket sales for both the Homo 
Concert and dance starts today. Get 
your tickets from any member of 
the Musical Clubs or from the stand 
In the Central Building. In order to 
absolutely Insure a full house the 
managers of the Clubs have set the 
prices of tho concert tickets below 
that of any previous Homo Concert. 
The prices of seats for the Home Con
cert are only 75c, 50c and 35c.
In former years the Home Concert 
was the bright light of the second 
semester of the school year. It has 
waned in popularity, due to competi
tion of other student activities, but 
this year should again take Its right
ful place on tho campus. The Home 
Concert Is a social event, second to 
none on tho campus, and should be 
patronized as such.
The University Club has been se
cured for the Home Concert dance, 
to take place immediately after the 
concert. The enticing strains of the 
Collegiate Imps will make tho danc
ing all the moro easy and will pro 
vide a fitting dose for a perfect day. 
The price for the dance alone is only 
two berries, which Is slight, Indeed, 
for a formal dance of this calibre.
Among other attractions at the 
concert will be a short act in which 
will be featured Obie Newman, 
"Bunny Rentz and the Collegiate 
Imps. Obie will sing some of his 
famous "blues" songs, and will also 
favor with some ballads. "Bunny 
Rentz puts a song over as it was 
meant to be put over. She sure can 
warble a mean jazz piece. Every one 
knows what tho Collegiate Imps can 
do when they are good, and the night 
of May 2 they are going to be at their 
beat.
S'teve Broudy is busy polishing his' 
sow, so that II will be nice and bright, 
besides being In the best of tune. It 
YP rumored that Steve took his saw 
with him to Boston, In order to, get 
It tuned up. The quartet, which be
came a trio after the first semester 
exams, lias again blossomed out as a 
quartet, will) an entirely new bunch
oi songs, calculated to lift em' out 
of their, seats.
Schenley 9189Managing Editor
..........Assistant Managing Editor
..........Assistant Managing Editor
KENNETH ARNOLD,
FRED C. SMITH.........
FRED T. PHELPS. .
ASSOCIATE EDITORSSchenley 9220SARA MAE EVERETT. 
MARK S. DOWNES 
II. II. WILSON
Schonloy 9070 
Schonloy 9070
W. WINNING
F. D. ROSSINI
.Schenlcp 0.070 Alumni Editor 
Schonloy 9143Athletic Editor
A. E. KROGII.
E. C. FRAZIER..
R. W. SLEATH . 
W. K. JEFFREY.
E. P. COUSE, JR. 
DON GARDNER
T. J. DEMPSEY.. 
W. M. GIBSON...
B. BROUDY...!..
......................................... Photographer
.....................................Exchange Editor
.................................................Art Editor
....................................... Special Wrltor
..............................Circulation Manager
Schenley. 9211Advertising Manager 
................Assistant Business Manager
J. M. Goss
F. M. McClolland 
M. W. Gay 
C. A. Lundqulst 
R. L. Lopp<*r 
J. N. Conley 
M, Ilolllnshead 
Harriet Merwln
SPORRAN DISPLACESCampus Week and the Sporran have 
been inseparableboth are tradi
tions; one cannot think of Campus. 
Week without the Sporran any more 
than one can imagine the Industries 
School without the Central Building 
the school embraces the whole, but 
the Central Building supplies the 
brains and genius.
DAILY SCAVENGER
(Continued From Page One.) 
served as souvenirs, and we blush 
with-shame for any stude who can 
open his scrap book t in future years 
and not recall some happy memories 
as he tenderly scans the pages of the 
yellowed and time worn Sporran re
posing there.
REPORTER DISCOVERS
LONE WOMAN IN BLUE
Continued From Page One.) 
make their parts of the production a 
success.
Manager Clement, wno has charge 
of the student night has made no 
definite plans about the ticket sales, 
but he says that all seats will be 
sold for the same price. $1.00, and 
the first will be served first, leaving 
the tardy ones in the peanut heav
en. Mr. Clement says he will be 
able to give the final plans for the 
next issue, and he assures us that 
there will be a novel means for sell
ing these tickets, inxorder to prevent 
the terrible hair pulling and eyeblackening which has resulted from 
the sales campaigns of previous years.
Manager Major, who is running the 
Alumni night lias nothing to add to 
what he has said before, but says that 
any Alumnus who would like to know 
more about the Alumni Night per
formance should read the Alumni 
Page, and see what is in store for 
him.
The committee has been hard at1 
work trying to make the show a big 
event, but it is more than a commit
tee can do alone. The students must 
talk up the show, and must see that 
they have their dollar bills ready to 
hand in at the box oiilce in exchange 
for their tickets when the great day 
comes.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTSTartan OIIlcoRoom 5*A, Industries Building. Olllco hoursDally 12:30-
STUDENT FINANCES
The School of Retailing trains for executive positions.
Merchandising Personnel Teaching
Advertising Training Service
Finance and Control 
Merchants are eager to secure trained men and women in these fields. 
Service Fellowships.
Certificate ...............................................................................................1 year
M. S. in Retailing..................................................................................2 years
Illustrated booklet on application. For further information write 
Dr. Norris A. Brisco, Director of New York University School of Re
tailing, 100 Washington Square, New York City.
No ma/iter how good the management ol; any activity on the cam
pus may be, there is always some criticism and therefore distrust. 
Many arc the thoughts and ideas passed around from mouth 0,o mouth 
on tlie campus to the cfi!cct that.studcnt funds arc not handled as they 
should. Much of tliis is duo to the careless bantering of various man
agers as to when and where they will get their rakc-ofi!. It may' 
he banterno more or no lessbut it is not always taken as such. 
There arc some dumb bells' on the campus who take it whole, gulp 
it down, and immediately begin to throw it out that all is not as it 
should be in student activities. Result: pretty soon there is a pretty 
well founded idea being diffused around that student activities are 
the bunk and student funds arc being handled efficiently and 
honestly.
That there arc many on the campus who honestly believe this 
ono has only to wander around tho campus and keep his ears open. 
All ono really needs do to get an ear-full, on tho subject is .corner, 
almost anybodyit almost makes no difference whoand innocently 
start a discussion on the subject. The writer knows because he too 
often has managed to got car-fulls on the subject.
For instance, a student learns that it takes six thousand dollars 
to publish tho OARNJ3G1TO TARTAN, lie immediately wonders 
where this publication can spend so much money.
Again, n students learns that Campus Week makes aboilt twelve 
hundred dollars. Therefore tho committee, in their opinion, gels a 
big rake-off. But, do they?
And so on it goes- tho committeemen in charge of every dance, 
as tho Junior Prom, Soph Hop, and ponior Ball, all receive big divi
dends, All of which is questionable.
It is to answer such charges that the administration puts on the 
campus every yoar a bulletin ol! Financial Roports of Troiumrors 
and Managers of tho Major Student Organizations,
This book with complete reports for tho school year I922-.I92!} is 
now available in tho Doan of Mens office for distribution. It is 
hoped that every student in school will avail him or horsolf of-a copy 
of this bulletin, and carofully study it. It will correct, many errone
ous ideas regarding tho management of student funds. 3D very ac
count has been carofully balanced by each individual manager and 
treasurer, and audited by the school auditor. IT IS CORRECT.
Copies of this booklet have been sont to ovory fraternity on tho 
campus, and a number aro still in tho Doan of Mens ollloo for dis
tribution to whomever is interested enough to ask for one.
There is a great future for this bulletin. It has been issued twice 
previous to this issue . The first had reports of only ten organiza
tions. This has twenty-four reports, Eventually, every single organ
ization using student funds, with incomes of moro than fifty dollars 
will be included.'
This is as it should be.
INSURANCE
ROSLYN SCOTT ADJUDGED
BEST LOOKING GIRL
(Contlnuod From Page One.)
Roslyn Scott ..................6-|-G-|-5=17
Evelyn Hollman ..........5-|-5-|-0=J0
Betty Mattar .................1--0-1-0= 7
Bnrtha Ohrman ............4-|-2-|-0. - 0
Plioobo Hennlng ..........2-|-3-|-0 5
Virginia Soibert.............3~|-m-|-0= 4m
To explaln tho placet! of th rest. 
Tony Sarg was nsltod to pick eight 
porsops, for prior to hi judgmont 
thoro woro olglit contestanti) for four 
plaoQS, and no moaiiH for doelding. Ho 
Hottlod tho contesi, by plcklng girla 
lor tho placca who baci boon plckod or 
montlonod for othor placca hy otlior
jUdROH,
Il la hopod timi tho uludont body 
wlll fimi thln ontosi to tholr tasto, for 
thoy aro tho onen who wlll malto nnothor almllar contesi, posalble noxt 
year. A t.hlng ol' thls aeri alwaya 
camion some orltlclam, and .la uaually 
accompanled by favoritisi!! on tho 
part of tho odltors, bui wo assuro th 
atudonta timi obsoleto Imparilallty 
was praetlood In Ilio awarda, and 
(boro couhl lui iothlng ciao, owlng lo 
Ilio motliod ni' doBlKiiating wlnnera, 
and scoriliPS The editor nevor know 
Ilio namea of tho parllelpanta untll 
(he contesi waa bolug closed by Tony 
Sarg,
Watch th Tartan for tho annoimelomeni of Ilio presentatimi of Ilio cup. 
Motlon Pictures will he taken of th 
wlnnors, ami furthor announcemonts 
wlll he made next week.
price
Commonwealth Building
Court 0554
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
1 ou know 
the Suit!'The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY, FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
6:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
COUNCIL PRESIDENT HARD 
TO HANDLE NOW MIXED UP
IN BIG OIL SCANDAL
(Contlnuod From Pngo One.) 
Faculty Club Room, where Bert Mun* 
ball has Just, drawn two cards to a 
skip straight.)
"My sole knowledge of east, winds, 
continues Jlggs, thumbing his siupondei's, "Is confined to them relation 
to the exposure of the silk Induatrv 
runners, and I know nothing of green 
dragonj or purple lizards. (A sob 
convulses tho secretary, who has for
gotten tho short-hand for "uncinari
asis.) !
At this juncture the president took 
his feet, off the desk and removed Ills 
hat. The assemblage blinked. There 
where a life-size model of Bald Pate 
Dome had long shone resplendant, 
amid a stubble of red furze stood 
yes, actually stood, plainly visible to 
allthree perfectly formed infan4 
hairs parted exactly in the middle. A 
round of applause rose, swelled, and 
died away.
"Oil, vociferated the president, 
with a broad grin, has been the 
downfall of many a man, but to me ix 
is first in importance as a growing in
dustry. He rolled up his certificate 
from the International Hair Growers 
College, all the while tenderly caress
ing his hirsute triumph with the 
handsome pearl comb received as a 
bonus for good work, and exited amid 
the cheers of the assemblage.
 BE A NEWSPAPER |
CORRESPONDENT 
|| with the j|
HEACOCK PLAN 
|| and earn a good income while & 
 learning; we show you how; H 
 begin actual work at once all 8 
 or, spare time; experience un2 necessary,; no canvassing.  
| SEND FOR PARTICULARS g
j Newswriters Training Bureau S 
~ 819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y. a
cAlways noticeliblit 
never tioticeable 
George M. Wilson
Sole Distributor in Pitts
burgh and Vicinity. 
CHAMBER OF COM
MERCE BUILDING 
Smithfield Street and 
Seventh Avenue
Corner Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 oclock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 6:30 So
cial Unit Tea, followed by an 
interesting program, should be 
of Interest to students.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
Smiles lirli 
back, at
W you!
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 23 
TroBSDTj^iL''"
.Little TheaterRichard the Third.
Richard the Third. 
Senior Ball ...........
....Little Theater 
.University Club
FRA1DAY, APRIL 25 
siRDl;im;'1G
Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church
Bellefield and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Pastor.
11 A.M. and S P.M.Sermons.
10 A.M.Mens Bible Class.
4 P.M.Westminster Guild.
5 P.M.Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.Christian Endeavor.
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas
tor, teaches Mens Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
.Entire SchoolExhibition Night
............ Union
.Little Theater
Dorm Dance ........
Richard the Third.
FRIDAY, MAY
.Schenley Theater 
...University Club
Home Concert ........
^Musical Club Dance.
Girls Musical Clubs Who Will Sing at Home Concert
A pleasant 
and agreeable 
sweet and a H-u-s-t-i-n-g 
benelIt as well.
Good for 
teeth, .breath and digestion.
Makes the next cl gar 
taste better.
Mound City Blue Blowers1
Their First Brunswick Record
ARKANSAW BLUES 
BLUE BLUES
College men, and college women, will get a thrill 
from this one. Its something new and eccentric 
in dance music. How such strange effects and 
noises are produced no one has yet discovered. 
Hear this record and see if you can.
1 c7h( Sign_of.SliusicaI 'Prestige gH
iPHON 0_C RAPHS AND RECORD.8.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 22, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
ROBERTSON ELECTED CAPTAIN 
OF THIS SEASON'S TRACK TEAM
SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS
We believe that we are offering Tartan readers a real treat in a series 
of special articles by men in close connection with the athletics of the 
school. These articles will start with an early issue and will appear more 
or less regularly, as the convenience of the writers permits.
Among the first of these will be articles by Buddy Overend and Dr. 
Marks, both of whom have had a long connection with athletic affairs at 
Carnegie Tech and elsewhere. Efforts are now being made to have certain other well-known men contribute some personal word or reminiscence 
for publication on this page.
Eventually, we hope to hear from each man on the Athletic Council. The 
personnel of this body, we believe, is much too little known to the student 
body at large. If by some such means as this we can see( the guardians of 
our athletic policies in a more personal light, and can thus encourage a 
wider and deeper interest in the affairs of that body, then the contemplated 
series will be of great value.
ELECTION TIME
The time for election of next years stutlent representative to the. Ath
letic Council approaches. One man each from the Colleges of Engineering, 
Industries and Pine Arts is elected each year to serve on the Athletic 
Council. These men are not only given responsibilities as members of the 
council, but are also the connecting link between student opinion and the 
Athletic Council.
As such, they must be men of some prominence in campus affairs, and, 
although they need not be athletes, must have affiliations of some -sort with 
the athletics of the institution. They must be men of sound judgment, will
ing to co-operate; and must be capable of using discretion in regard to con
fidential matters.
Such men are Newman. Ryan and Dylceman, the present incumbents. 
We must now look about and see who are Avortliy of succeeding these men 
in one of the most responsible student positions on the campus.
CLEAR THE DECKS FOR C. W.
It is little short of nliraculous how rapidly time flies during, a vacation. 
We can hardly realize that weVe just had a week of respite from toil and 
the midnight oil, and all that. But Campus Week is only a little over three 
weeks in the future, and believe us, its going to be SOME C. W.!
At the University of Michigan a 
Freshman newspapers, the Cub, has re
cently made its appearance. The
Freash wil be allowed to priijt the 
pubication for a breaf period. The 
paper, which is a bright green in 
color, is published every two weeks.
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLES BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
The place you have been look
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
rdinary
Dont give a cap 
too much, rope
Just when youre hurrying the most 
 zip! and away goes that shaving 
cream cap. The new cap on Williams 
ends the nuisance forever. Its hinged 
on and cant get lost.
In shaving, too, Williams has just as noticeable im
provements: Williams lather is heavier and more closely 
woven. It holds the water in against the beard. Result: 
quicker softening. Williams lather lubricatesno irri
tating friction. Last, Williams is decidedly helpful to the 
skin. It keeps your face comfortable no matter how 
heavy your beard and how tender your skin. Theres 
no coloring matter in Williamsit is a natural white, 
absolutely pure. Say Williams Hinge-Cap toyour dealer.Williams
Shaving Cream
The J. B. Williams Company, Glastonbury, Conn.
%
Three Tears for a Start
J
OHN HANCOCK experience shows that 
if you sell life insurance for three years 
you will continue for your entire active 
business life.
Why? Because you will find it the most 
pleasant and remunerative business you can 
choose. It is constructive work, it produces 
self-reliance and independence and affords 
the greatest satisfaction in every way. To be 
a John Hancock representative in your 
community is to stand for the best there is.
Before making any decision regarding 
your career write the Agency Department.
Life Insurance Company^>
PE RPMAPNT WVMMVIGCMOAAM 
Sixiy-one years in business. Now insuring One Billion Seven Hundred 
Million Dollars in policies on L,ife,exie lives
Jimmy Robertson has been elected 
Captain of the track team for the 
season of 1924. Robertson is a hurd
ler, broad jumper, and sprinter of 
some note. Last season he won his 
varsity letter in one meet; that which 
was held at Penn State. Jimmy is a 
member of the Kappa Sigma frater
nity, the Dragons, and was captain 
of last year's football team. This 
season he is holding down a berth 
on the baseball team as well as .par
ticipating in track.
Freshman Tennis Card 
Approved by Council
Includes Eight GamesTrip 
Will be Made to Johnstown
With the completion of the Fresh
man and Varsity tennis schedules, 
everything except the tennis courts 
and the teams are ready for the open
ing of the season. The courts will 
more than likely be available before 
the second half of this week has be
gun, and pretty soon after that the 
two teams will be ready for the gong.
Due to. the age of the courts, there 
is quite a lot of work to be done on 
them. They must be swept clear of 
all rocks and pebbles, and rolled at 
least half a dozen times. They must 
then be remarked, and new pegs 
driven into the grounds. But with all 
of this work .to be done, the energetic 
bunch of managers available expect 
through dint of hard labor to get them 
in shape before many more days of 
school have passed.
The team has been practicing for 
almost six weeks both indoors and 
outmostly in though, due to incle
ment wealther. But, this practice in 
Langley Lab has benefitted the as
pirants of Varsity and Freshman 
berths greatly in that they have been 
coached by Coacli Finlc in the rudi
ments of correct stroking, and as a 
result there seems to be little excuse 
for poor form by any member of the 
team or squad. During the vacation 
period a handful of men stranded in 
Pittsburgh have practiced faithfully 
upon the concrete court in Squirrel 
Hill, and if the truth be known, pros
pects are more and more beginning 
to appear not so gloomy as was first 
thought.
Harry Smith, a Junior in the Col
lege of Engineering has been appoint
ed temporary captain for the first two 
matches, after which the permanent 
captain will be elected in due form 
by the members of the team as se
lected hv Coach Fink. There seems 
to be little reason for the selection 
of any other man Tor this position, as 
Smith has earned his varsity letter 
in tennis, and from all indications is 
the best tennis player in school. He 
will make a good leader.
The Freshman schedule as ap
proved by the Athletic Council is as 
follows:
May 3Willdnsburg High, there.
May 9Westmont High, here.
May 10Willdnsburg High, here.
May 13Westmont High, Johns 
town, Pa., tliore.,
May 10Pitt Freshmen, here.
May 20Crafton High, there.
May 23Crafton High, hero.
May 20Pitt Freshmen, there.
The Varsity schedule as published 
is subject to one change. Allegheny 
has cancelled her match scheduled for 
May i) 011 tlie Carnegie courts. The 
first match Avill be played against 
Washington & Jefferson on May 2, 
in Little Washington, and West Vir
ginia will be met at Morgantown on 
the following day. The first home 
match is with Bueknell on May 7.
DELTA UPSILON WINS 
INTRA-MURAL MEET
ATHLETIC COUNCIL 
NAMES MANAGERS
Repeats Last Year's Victory 
With Score of 71 Points; 
Summary of Events
Only girls who have been jilted by 
their beaux are eligible for member
ship in the Nu Omega sorority re
cently founded at Coe College. Fail
ure of a man to keep five consecu
tive appoitments automatically makes 
a girl eligible for membership. The 
sorority is reported to be gaining in 
size although it has been outlawed 
by most institutions.
Leaves It to Judge.
'T would much rather you did it," 
replied a man at Shoreditch (England) 
county court when Judge Cluer re
marked. "Ask your xr!fp to koon qnlet."
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring 
ones. Begin now to acquire 
those of saving and accumu
lating money.
An account with the Mellon 
National Bank will give you 
a splendid start. Persistent 
savings will develop financial 
independence. The experi
ence, to say nothing of the 
money itself, will in later life 
prove invaluable to you.
Come in and talk it over.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsbujp^h, Pa.
Topping a list of 14 fraternity and i 
dormitory teams that scored in the | 
recent Intra-Mural track and field j 
meet, Delta Upsilon fraternity ran far ! 
ahead of her competitors and scored | 
a total of 71 points during the three | 
days on which the events were held. | 
The next best team was that repre
senting Delta Tau Delta, and Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon, Theta Xi and Pi Kappa Alpha composed the rest of the 
teams who finished in the first five 
places.
The events on the card were the 
ISO-yard run, high jump, broad jump, 
high hurdles. 4 laps. 1 lap, low hur
dles, 100-yard dash, 2 laps, S laps, re
lay race, shot put, hammer throw, dis
cus throw and javelin throw.
The relay race was one or the most 
exciting events of the entire program. 
It was run in two heats, with the 
teams running against time, rather 
than the qualifying teams running in 
a final. The first heat saw the Theta 
Xi team far ahead until the last lap, 
when Kramer, a Delta Upsilon speed
er, passed the last Theta Xi man and 
came in a winner by a narrow margin. 
In the second heat, Delta Tau Delta 
won over their field by a safe mar
gin. The latter team had the best 
time, and were declared winner of 
the relay: Delta Upsilon and Theta 
Xi placed second and third, respec
tively.
The Summary of Events Is As 
Follows:
ISO-yard runChristoff, Pi Kappa 
Alpha; Hamilton, Kappa Sigma; 
Bohn, Unatt.; Humbert, Theta Xi; 
Bier. Delta Tau Delta. Time, 20 2-5.
Four lapsBright, Delta Epsilon; 
Ewing, PI Kappa Alpha; Peck, Unatt.; 
Koppes, Delta Tau Delta; Gottwals, 
Kappa Sigma Rho. Time, 3:50.
Eight lapsBright, Delta Upsilon; 
Lustonberger, Delta Tau Delta; Foller, KappaSigma; Stroud, Delta Mu; 
Klmmel, Kappa Sigma Rho. Time, 
9:5 2-5.
Broad jumpStultz. Delta Upsilon; 
Merort, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Good
win, Delta Upsilon; Hornung, Alpha 
Tau Omega; Kuhn, Delta Tau Delta. 
Distance, IS feet 5Ms inches.
High jumpBastian, Beta Theta 
Pi; Cutting, Delta Upsilon; Luty, 
Delta Tau Delta, and Goodwin, Delta 
Upsilon. tiod for second placo; .Tamos, 
Delta Upsilon, fifth. Height, 5 feet 
5 inches.
RelayDelta Tau Delta, 2:55 1-5; 
Delta Upsilon, 2:58 4-5; Theta Xi, 
2.59 4-5; Pi Kappa Alpha, 3:3 4-5; 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 3:5 2-5.
Low hurdlesStultz, Delta Upsilon; 
Sullivan, Delta Tau Delta; Rhoads, 
ITondorsoh Hall; Llberknight, Alpha 
Tau Omega; Goodwin, Delta Upsilon. 
Time, 15 3-5.
I-IIgh hurdles  Stultz, Delta Upsi
lon; Sullivan, Dolta Tau Delta; Intoso, Kappa Epsilon; Rhoads, Hen
derson Hall; Schucker, Woodlawn. 
Time, 11 seconds.
Ono lapKramer, Delta Upsilon; 
Dyke, Theta XI; Seaman, Woodlawn; 
Schwab. PI Kappa Alpha; White, Un
attached. Time, 41 3-5.
Two lapsKramer. Delta Upsilon; 
Bright, Delta Upsiloii; Ewing, Pi Kap
pa Alpha; Schmidt, Woodlawn; Gott
wals, Kappa Sigma Rho. Time, 
1:42 2-5.
100-yard dash  Hamilton, Kappa 
Sigma; Shriver, Delta Tau Delta; 
Lockard, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; 
Schwab, Pi Kappa Alpha; Beecher, 
Delta Upsilon. Time, 11. 1-5.
Hammer throwYoder, Sigma Al
pha Epsilon; Nesbit, Theta Xi; Mofort, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Goodwin, 
Delta Upsilon; Wertenberger, Kappa 
Sigma. Distance, 9S.9 feet.
Shot putNimick. Woodlawn, Berg: 
lund, Delta Upsilon; Mefort, Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon; Nesbit, Theta, Xi; 
Mohrman, Kappa Sigma. Disiance, 
35 feet 10 inches.
JavelinMefort, Sigma Alpha Epsi
lon; Mohrman, Kappa Sigma; Shriv
er, Delta Tau Delta; Bergluml, Delta 
Upsilon; Bastian, Beta Theta Pi. Dis
tance, 142 feet.
DiscusYoder, Sigma Alpha Epsi
lon; Nesbit, Theta Xi; Goodwin, 
Delta Upsilon; Mohrman, Kappa Sig
ma; Berglund, Delta Upsilon. Dis
tance, 103.0 feet.
The Teams Scoring In the Meet 
Stood As Follows:
Delta Upsilon, 71; Delta Tau Delta, 
30; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 30; Theta 
Xi, 22; Pi Kappa Alpha, 20; Kappa 
Sigma, 10; Woodlawn Club, 11; Un
attached, 7; Beta Theta Pi, 0; Hen
derson Hall, 5; Alpha Tau Omega, 4; 
Kappa Epsilon, 3; Kappa Sigma Rho, 
3; Delta Mu, 2.
The officials for the second IntraMural track meet were as follows:
Games Committee  Guy Halferty, 
H. E. Dylceman, L. E. Yoder, E. M. 
Johnston, Max Scrimgeour.
RefereeF. W. Moses.
StartersW. L. Marks, W. II. Mun
hall.
Clerks of CourseA. F. Fink, G. E. 
Slye, Carey Proctor.
ScorerE, C. Frazier.
Announcers  McWilliams, R. E. 
Hughes.
Head JudgeProf. S, E. Dibble.
Judges and TimersDean Tarbell, 
Professor Escjuerre, II. W. Dosey, H. 
K. Klrk-PalrJck, R. V. Davis.
Field JudgesR. Miller, R. Pittman, 
H. Meredith, L. Hauck.
MeasurersDownes, Kirk, Barlow, 
Davidson, Escher, Frye.
BEN LUBIC APPOINTED
TO COACH BASKET BALL j
Ben Lubic has been reappointed 
coach of the basket ball team for the 
season of 1924-25. Tho past season ---------------
w.,s not very sce8stui, due to the1H. N. Smith is Tennis Captainscarlet fever ban on school activities, | r
the quarantines placed on fraternity 
houses, and the mid-year ineligibility 
list.
Next years basket ball team, how
ever, gives promise of great things, 
with Lubic back as coach, Midge Mat
ter as captain, and a number of ex
perienced men, including the mem
bers of last seasons Plobe team.
Plaid Nine Annexes 
Two Wins in W. Va.
Cutting and Miller Will 
Manage B. B. Teams
Pitt Harriers Win 
Hill and Dale Title
j R. IT. Cutting and E. F. Miller will 
j manager the Varsity and Freshman 
basket ball teams, respectively, next, 
winter, as a result of their election 
by the Athletic Council at the last 
j meeting, April S. H. N. Smith was 
also appointed temporary captain ol! 
the tennis team and the Freshman 
tennis schedule was approved, 
j Dick Cutting, the new basket ball 
i manager, is a Junior in tho College 
I of Fine Arts, where he is studying 
| Architecture. He has been affiliated 
with various campus activities, and 
is a member of Delta Upsilon FraterI ri ity, Druids, and Scarab.
The now Freshman manager, Eddio 
Miller, is a member of Kappa Sigma, 
The _ University of Pittsburgh won aluj u musician of some prominence, 
the Allegheny Mountain Association ) He is also on the Thistle Board and 
cross-country title in a run over the j a student in the College of Fine Arts. 
Schenley Park course last Saturday
Dykeman Will Run in Final 
Olympic Try-outs in New 
York on May 10
afternoon. The run was not only held
The appointment of Harry Smith 
j as tennis loader conies as no surprise, 
for Harry is a letter man. of known
to determine tho A. M. A. qhnmplomt. | ability on the courts. Smith is n
but to pick winners to represent, the 
Pittsburgh district in the national 
cross-country championships at Van 
Cortlaudt Park, Now York, on June 
10, which will be the final Olympic 
tryouts also.
The individual winners of tho A. M. 
A. meet were Earl Johnson, who ran 
the course in rocord time of 29:01 
j minutes Corbett and Howell of Pitt 
! came in twenty yards behind for sec
ond and third placos respectively. 
Kerr of Pitt took fourth place 
| Howard Dykeman, Carnegie Techs 
star, who was expected to he a leader 
In the A. M. A. Olympic trials did hot 
run. Ol! those onterod, Dykeman and 
Johnson were considered tho most se
rious contenders for tho Olympic hon
ors by reason of their recent notable 
performances.
Dykeman could not run bocauso ho 
was suffering from a caso of ptomaine 
poisoning, but will, 110 doubt bo reiyiy 
for tho Ponn relays next Saturday. 
Dykemans 'failure to run I11 tho A. M. 
A. trials will not, howovor, lcoop him 
out of the final Olympic trials to be 
held in New York 011 Juno 10.
.Iunior in the Commercial Engineer
ing Department and is a member of 
Beta Theta Pi and Druids. The ap
pointment of tho Council is to be in 
effect only until after the second 
match of tho season, when the squad 
will formally elect its captain.
Tho following 111011 were appointoil 
first assistants in basket ball: IT. E
Dlotrick, W. S. Hanley, G. E. Gordon. 
W. L. Donovan. The following will 
sorvo as second assistants: J. A.
High, J. Holloway, I. S. Smith, J. R. 
Niles, D. M. Davidson.
Tho Frosltnan tennis schedule ap
pears elsowhero 011 this pago.
W. Va. U. and W. Va. Wes
leyan Lose to Tartans
Surely.
One of the compensations of this ex
istence Is thiir a girl can he darned 
good-looking without winning a beauty
j contest. .
TWOCUOP
FIFTEEN GIRLS NOMINATED
FOR CAMPUS QUEEN
~M>e master 
dmutgptJtdr
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
toonth Contury, but the Eighteenth 
Century as well, that ago of exquisite 
coquetry, of powdered and porfumod 
elegance, and with all tills, their own 
beautiful Twontieth Contury, with its 
poise and sophisticated graco,
Yet, girls, thoro is something to ho 
j said for our men, too. A Turkish am
bassador, 011 being questioned as to 
tho beauty of French women, said:
"I am 110 judge of painting!"
| A fairly good rotort, hut can you 
Imagine a modern college youth ad- j 
mlttlng tho same tiling? Never! And 
so tho girls wlll hnvo to be pretty 
good to win tholr succinct and soph
isticated approbation!
On May 15, we shall ,OHS Tin thon 
that tho final sotting will be created.' 
and tho Queen of Joy and Lovo and | 
Beauty crownod! Next week's vot-1 
Ing will seloct the three most boautl-1 
fill from tho famous flfteon, and pic
tures of tho girls will ho provided, to j 
! render the mens voting loss a mat-1 
tor of guesswork!
! In the eloctlon of the fifteen, every I 
member of tho Senior class received 
at least one vote, and there were 
many who came withinN a limited 
radius of tho lucky winners. Just 
who the queen shall bo is a subject 
much under discussion, but, so far, 
an unsolved mystery. The voting 
next week will help In the solving, 
and so we hope that every student 
will do his part by casting a vote for 
one of the fifteen.
Dtnnon
"Wlint wiih Un- ninno of limi polirli l'rofeHHor W111 In ni h wiih i-ocoiii- iiuiihIIiik M1I11 moniliiKr"
Pythias- -
"KUlonidi  my boy, Ifildoriulol 
.limi ililnk of II fnlili'il lumi of 
enne unii IiuppInc.HHwlioi'o no eIIe 
llunkHwlioi o poaollH aro Uh* umido 
mIIHoi of nclilovoinont. TIIeII you 
cun novor faiKOt II."
The Easter recess was anything 
but a vacation for tlie Plaid baseball 
team. The tour through West Vir
ginia netted two victories and ono 
tie game for Carnegie. West Vir
ginia Wesleyan was beaten by a 7 
to 2 count on Tuesday, and 011 tlio 
following day tho same two teams 
battled to an S to S score. Tho 
West Virginia University team was 
tackled Thursday, and ended In a 
!) to 4 triumph or tho Tartans. A 
second game was scheduled with the 
Mountaineers which was t9 be play
ed Friday but a heavy rain made 
baseball an impossibility.
Jack Capp'e pitched the first gam 
with great success, holding the Wesleyans down to a very few hits. The 
fielding was good, aud it was evident 
from the first that Carnegie was 
the better team.
The second game was carried out 
to 11 innings, and then called on 
account of darkness. Bassett pitched 
the first five innings and was then 
replaced by Lynch, who hurled for 
two more. Cappe was substituted 
for Lynch at tho beginning of the 
eighth, and finished out' the game 
to the eleventh. Wesleyan rallied 
in the ninth and secured two runs. 
But for a bit of raggod fielding the 
Tartans icould havo won this game.
Thomas pitched the entire game 
with West Virginia University. The 
Mountaineers started out with two 
runs in tho first inning, but. Carnenegie followed soon after with five. 
Bastian hitting a homer with two 
on base. West Virginia's pitching 
staff proved very weak in this game, 
allowing thirteen hits and the Plaid's 
poor fielding again cropped out, but 
was counterbalanced by tho heavy 
hitting.
The following is a list of the play
ers who mado the trip: Robertson,
.1. Christoff, Lynch, McClelland, 
Frost, Nowmari, Bastian, Dlffley. 
Cappe, Thomas, Mefort, llnblo, Bussott.
It Is n great convenience for n 
ntudont to ha.ve an up-to-date "PostInfj or Stenograph" fountain pen 
no blotting necessary. Examine one 
at Singer's Shop1,
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Rcnervo 
Syutom.
Capital...............
Surplun ..............
Dcpoultu, Over 
- - $300,000.00
- - $300,000.00 
- $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEP08IT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Dress Suits To Rent
Tuxedos for the College Man
ORDERj EARLY 
For the Next Formal
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH 
Smithfield 0341 Houra8:30-5:30
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS \
DAVIES and HUGHES
cTWENS WEARj
8815 FORBES STREET 
Next To Strand Theater
422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
What a whale of a difference 
just a few cents mate ! 
-all the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette 
andFATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTAVTUESDAY, APRIL 22. 1924
\ ALUMNI PAGE
0
i
The Courses in 
Chemical Engineering and Chemistry
:S0NG BOOKS MAY BE 
RESERVED BY MAIL
I LUTHERAN STUDENT CLUB 
MEETS THIS THURSDAY TO 
PiCK CONFERENCE ENVOYS
I
By Dr. J. H. Jamcu.
Contrary to tho utfual lilalory of 
these two courue, we have had I 
the Carnegie Inntltute of Technology 
the development first, of <t courue l/i 
Chemical Engineering and, later, the 
course In Chemistry.
In the most cursory survey of the 
history o Engineering It Is soon that 
the profession has become subdivided 
wll.li the growth of our Industrial life. 
The civil engineer was so named to 
distinguish his work from that of the 
military engineer. So It has gone on, 
.'is science developed and Its applica*, 
tlon to Industrial life increased, we 
have seen, successively the separation 
of new branches of engineering; in 
Nils way mining engineering became 
established, then mechanical, elec
trical, metallurgical and, finally, the 
newcomer- chemical engineering.
The chemical engineer is the man 
who carries out chemical reactions on 
a large scale or, to paraphrase the 
well known definition of an engineer, 
one might say that1 "the chemical en
gineer is one who utilizes chemical 
reactions in the service of man. The 
HuacesHlul man here is one who has 
in his schooling shown an interest in 
chemistry as a science and who car
ries with him into Ids engineering a 
".chemical sense. This is Imperative, 
because wo have In practically all 
manufacturing which In based on 
Chemistry a different alignment on 
the1 cost sheet as to the items of 
labor and materials. It has been 
pointed out Lliat where manufactur
ing Ih based on mechanical operations, 
labor will run about 35 per cent and 
materials about .'15 per cent, while in 
the /production of goods, based on 
chemical reactions, the labor item 
runs from 12 per cent down to X per
VAUDEVILLE TO BE 
OPENING, OF C. W.
cent, apd materials as high as 00 per 
cont. it Is not uncommon hero for 
a .'{ per cent Increase in yield to pro
duce the same eli'ect as cutting the 
cost of labor in two,
The chemical engineer, then, must 
be a chemist so far as having a 
thorough knowledge .of his process 
goes, and an engineer so far as the 
installation and operation of the ap
paratus goes. In only special cases 
Is he an apparatus designer. His 
problems are usually those of main
tenance and production. Me must have 
a good personalitythe problems lie 
encounters are more often human 
than-chemical. The research chemist 
has worked out the process, the 
chemical engineer carries It out on a 
factory scale.
The Held of the chemical engineer 
is very broad, Including, as it does, 
all manufacturing operations that in
volve chemical change; chemicals, 
dyiestiilTs, rubber, paints, varnlsher, 
petroleum products, paper, leather, 
cellulose products, iats and oils, 
sugar, food products, etc.
The course In chemistry Ib planned 
for those men who prefer the more 
strictly scientific side of chemical ac
tivity; J. e., research or teaching. 
Wiille the chemical engineering 
course Includes mechanics and minor 
courses In .electrical and mechanical 
engineering, the chemistry course 
omits these and offers more chemis
try and physics, together with two 
modern languages. A student elect
ing either of these courses must have 
an interest in chemistry and physics; 
ir lie Ib of the quiet, scholarly type, 
he would do bettor to elect the 
chemistry course, while if he believes 
he would be interested in the more 
strenuous life of the engineer, that 
should bo his choice.
Surprises and Stunts Will 
Feature Initiation of An
nual Festival
The vaudeville show will as usual 
be the opening and one big eventof 
'the Annual Campus Woolc. 'Pile com
mittee has been hard at work on the 
show and plans Indicate a real starter. 
II. will 1)0 staged in the Music Iiall 
on Thursday morning according to 
the presold plans.
Herbert Pol os jo, who is in charge, 
plans to give some real surprises In 
the form of feature nets and unusual 
stunts. The star drumats of the year 
will play a big part in tho show but 
Blunts put on by others than the 
regular adorn will be a now and 
novel feature and will add Intorest 
111114 '.anl: l.o the whole affair.
.TuHi. suppose that King Tut should 
come walking out oji the slugo with 
the Flaming Youth on Ids arm and 
cry out "Who nil Id It's the woman 
who always pays". Wouldn't you he 
Hiirprlsod? Or you would bo equally 
inirprlfled mid dollfthtod to see Tommy 
(li'lggs do an Orlontal diuiqo with Cy 
Comfort healing the tambourine.
Blue Bandana is Not 
A Musical Comedy
Don't be Disappointed If All 
Front Seats Are Gone
THE TELESCOPE
I
Spring: has already wrought magic I 
effects upon many of the ('lumunon, I 
reminding them of Dear Old Tech, 
and especially of Campus Week. From 1 
present reports the number of alumni | 
returning will exceed our fondest antlclpations, and help to make Campus  
Week of 1924 one of our most pleas-. 
ant memories in the years to como. |
Now is the time to get in touch with j 
.the Alumni Office and secure reserva- j 
tions for the numerous festivities belore the rush season begins.
.Nothing like shopping early!
All of the Alumni are trying to got 
their seats for The Blue Bandana 
In the front row! Tills show Is not 
a musical comedy, and there are 
plenty of seats further hack! The 
Idea Is this; sond in your name and 
address to Cl. L. Tllbrook, and I. li 
him, In a letter, Just how many tick
ets you. want for Saturday evening, 
May 17. . Thon add up the number, 
and enclose equal number of dollar 
bills to eovor the amount. After you 
have done that bond .15 cents to In
sure your tickets, and to cover the 
postage, and then sit tight!
The play was written by Hubert 
Osborne, mid will be presenl.od hero 
prior to Its run on Broadway. You
know some of Mr, Osborne's other
Plays, and you have all soon "Don't, 
.ill It Love" In the movfes. Well, 
this show hi bettor than all of the 
rest put Into a pH*' and presented at 
enee! Jurt try and see bow eauy It
Is to gol tickets, and you will bo sure
of a splendid time, if you send lu 
>our uppllenllon now!
adolphln Clan, will be hero. A great 
many olhors of the Philadelphia Clan 
aro In tlio lineup, Including Tom Shea, 
"1oaoon" Coleman, Newcomb, Coorgo 
llurgoss and Tony Kerin, Tlio New 
York, l'Orlo, Buffalo and Cleveland 
Clans will be represented by lift,y per 
cent of their membership. If not more. 
From all reports every clan will bo 
well represented.
A large number of Alumni visited 
the school during the holidays, and 
practically all of them expressed! in
tentions of being here May 15, 1G and 
17.
From the above it seems that 
Campus Week means what it should 
to most of the alumni. How about 
yourself.
Alumni from the East are going 
strong in the race to return for | 
Campus Week. Hubbard, who is with j 
the Eastern Clay Products Associa-1 
tion, is organizing a party to drive i 
back. Dave Gaither, who is located ! 
in Now York and Exline of tlio Phil- '
Young Lady: Conductor, youre too 
fresh. Ive a good notion to ask you 
for your number.
Conductor: Sure! Here it is on
this card. Call me any time after six 
oclock.McGill.
We have done our level best to make 
a tobacco that tastes just right.
We bought, for making Velvet., the best leaf 
tobacco that grows in the famous blue-grass 
section of Kentucky; and then slowly and 
thoroughly aged it in wood.
Ageing in wood takes more time and coats us 
lots more money, but it makes Velvet mild 
and mellow and gives it fine flavor. 
RemomborVel vet, aged in wood.
G1RJLEE  naLRN iOmBHHO VOS
Reservations Already in for 
One Hundred of Second 
Edition
One hundred and sevontv-flve Car
negie Alumni are now the proud pos
sessors of copies of the first Car
negie Song Hook. These books were 
mailed out on April 1, tfhd all should 
have reAched their destination by 
this time.
Inasmuch as the first edition of
1.000 copies of the Carnegie Song 
Book was completely sold out in the 
two days of the student campaign on 
March 25 and 26, the Carnegie Song 
Book Staff has placed an order for a 
second edition of 1,000 copies. The 
contract for the publishing of the 
second edition was awarded to the 
Otto Zimmerman Company of Cincin
nati, O., who published the first edi
tion.
Alumni may reserve copies of this 
second edition by sending $1.10 per 
copy to the Carnegie Song Book 
Staff, Box 05, Carnegie Tech Poslollice. Reservations for copies of the 
second edition will be made in the 
order of their acceptance. Since only
1.000 copies are available to supply 
the needs of alumni, day students, 
and night students, immediate action 
on the part of those desiring copies 
is necessary.
One hundred reservations for copies 
of the second edition have already 
been received.
Lutheran students and all others 
interested are urged to come to the 
mooting of the L/utheran Students 
Club at the house, 200 N. Dithridge 
street, for the meeting which is to 
be held there this Thursday evening.
Many matters of importance are on 
the program and will be decided that 
| evening. Delegates to the Y. M. & 
Y. W. Conferences are to be selected 
and the new officers have in mind sev
eral other bothersome uroblems.
The business meeting will not be 
unnecessarily prolonged.
DISTANT CLANS TO 
AID BRIDGE PARTY
The English Minor Course
M. M Alumnae in Many 
Cities to Meet This Sat.
I Helping Cause
CHICAGO CLAN
The Chicago Clan has held very 
successful meetings during the past 
year, at which they, have had promi
nent speakers, including Wally Stef
fen and others. Such topics as the 
"Divorce Evil, Appreciation of Art 
In Industries" and Chicago as a 
Home Town wore discussed.
At a meeting Friday, May 2, plans 
will be discussed for the big Carnegie 
Night, at which time the moving 
pictures of last year's football games, 
as well as other movies of intorest to 
Carnegie men will bo shown. Every 
Carnegie in an and woman in or near 
Chicago at this timo should make a 
special effort to bo present.
Get in touch with Oscar M. Dundee, 
5'175 K. ini bark avenue, Chicago, 111.
NORFOLK CLAN MEETS
Southern hospitality was again In
Ideuce S'aturday night, April 12, a' 
the Hotel Fairfax, Norfolk, Vlr., when 
Billy" Sands rounded; up l.ho Tide
water Clan" at, a dinner in honor of 
G L, Tllbrook, Alumni Executive 
Secretary, who stopped at; Norfoljj or 
his return trip from the Alumni Sec
retaries Convention, held at tlio Uni
versity of Virginia.
The following men were presold,: 
Dave" Fit/gibbons, "Billy" Rudolph, 
'Hilly Cook, .1. W. Phillips, Mortor. 
Oushner, Harris and Billy1' Sands.
Needless to say It was some party 
with real Carnegie pop ill evidence.
Practically every one of the men 
slgnllled his intention of returning for 
Campus Week.
BALTIMORE CLAN
The Baltimore Carnegie Clan held 
a very successful meeting on Friday 
evening, Apfil 11. Dinner was servo 1 
to the members and, after that, the 
Carnegie songs and cheers were 
gl^en. The balance of the evening 
was taken up with discussion of cur
rent subjects and plans for attending 
Campus Week. Mr. P. H. Dickey oL 
the Hillman Coal and Coke Company, 
Baltimore, is the secretary of the 
clan. 1-Te is very anxious to hear 
from any alumni or former students 
of Carnegie Tech. who are located in 
on near Baltimore, but who have net 
been in attendance at any of the fa
mous parties held by the Baltimore 
Clan.
WHERE DO YOU EAT FRIDAY?
If you lunch in Pittsburgh you 
should report to "The Pittsburgh Clan 
Luncheon, held every Friday noon 
in the Henry Hotel.
Last Friday was the start and the 
following men were out: C. S. Weyandt, Huntley Wallace, Gerald C. 
Schoonover, Rody Patterson, Harold 
E. Lex. Janies M. Covett, E. E. 'Smith. 
'John L. Bahr, W. Sontum, C. W. 
Anderson, A. W. Hodgren, James E. 
King, Logan T. Johnston, John E. 
Hess, Frank L. Balthasar, J. P. Reyn
olds, C. F. Johnson; Everett H. 
Hughes, Raymond A. Fisher, Don F. 
Cassidy and E. W. Ortolf,
No reservations aro necessary, jits'; 
come. No speechesareal chance to 
moot, l.ho old gang.
Woll see you Friday at the Henry.
CHEMICAL ENGS. TO HOLD 
THEATERPARTYTHURSDAY
The first social gathering of the I 
Carnegie Chemical Engineers will be j 
a theater party in,the Little Theater, 
Thursday, May 1. The Drama De
partment has arranged an excellent; ; 
cast In Richard the Third." it 
isnt often that the Alumni have an | 
opportunity to see these plays. The 
thanks of the organization go to Rud- \ 
yard Portor and C. L. Tllbrook, of 
the Alumni ofllce, for securing the j 
tickets.
Cards have Deen mailed to all i 
Chemical Engineering and Science) 
men in the Pittsburgh district whose I 
addresses we have. Former students i 
of this department who did not. gradu-1 
ate are eligible for associate member
ship. Send your address in.
The regular dinner will be omitted 
and no meeting will be held. This is 
just a party. Bring your wife or a 
guest. The Chemical Engineering 
Faculty have been invited and expect 
to turn out 100 per cent.
A limited number of tickets are j 
available, and can be had by promptly | 
mailing your request, with a stamped 
self addressed envelope, to the sec
retary, .1. B. Zimmerman, 505 Rensliuw building. These will be filled in 
the order received.
new your acquaintance with those 
about school and your old class
mates.
Sond or bring in your three bucks, 
and we will guarantee you a large and j 
pleasant evening. * ,
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Plans are now in shape for the 
noneflt bridge and 500 which the Mar
garet Morrison Alumnae Association 
will give this Saturday afternoon, 
April 2fith at McCreerys Dining Room 
at three o'clock.
The following is a partial list of the 
patronesses for the event: Mrs. Wil
liam W. Blackburn, Mrs. John L. Por
ter, Mrs. George W. McCandless, Mrs. 
William McConway, Mrs. James H. 
Reed and Mrs. William Watson 
Smith.
Among the tableholders are: Miss
Thelma Adams, Miss Mary E. Bech
tel, Miss Agnes Bird, Miss Justine M. 
Dobbs, Mrs., Inez M. Dunnels, Mrs. 
Charles R. Fettlce, Mrs. J. B. Graham, 
Miss R. Grace Griffin, Miss Martha A. 
Hays, Mrs. Gertrude Morgan Hayes, 
Miss Martha C. Lloyd, Mrs. William 
E. Mott, Miss Cecelia Murdock, Miss 
Anna L. McCandless, Miss Phyllis McMarlin, Miss Frances V. Rayburn, 
Miss Ethel 'Spencer and Miss Mary 
M. Young, Mr. Clarece Overend, Miss 
Genevieve Fisher, Miss Althea I. 
Burch, Mrs. Howard W. Ebberts, Mrs. 
William Watson Smith, Mrs. John T. 
Morris, Mrs. Emerson Pugh, Mrs. Carl 
E. Glock, Mrs. William H. Harrold, 
Mrs. Elizabeth Vermorcken, Miss Lois 
McCombs, Mrs. Frances Wing Gra 
ham, Mrs. Thomas Spooner, Miss Dor
othy Grant, Mrs. Thomas Orr, Mrs. 
Mary M. Patterson, Mrs. Charles C. 
Brinton.
A new' plan will be inaugurated this 
year when several clans will give 
bridge parties in various cities on 
April 26tli, the proceeds of which will 
go to the Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association which is staging its big 
benefit in. Pittsburgh at McCreerys 
Dining Room on the same date.
The Harrisburg Clan will be enter
tained by Mrs. Busliong who has very 
kindly offered to furnish refreshment 
and prizes for the occasion.
In Boston, a small but valiant band 
of alumnae will meet at the bridge 
table, thus doing their share to help 
a worthy cause.
The Alumnae Association appreBy Dr. Malcolm McLeod.
The English Minor Course was in
stituted some five or six years ago to 
meet a demand from a small group 
of students who wished more English 
than the regular technical courses 
provided. For the most part these 
students were registered in the Sec
retarial Department. After two or 
three years of effort to fit an English 
curriculum to the technical cur
riculum without making a separate 
department, it was decided that the 
students electing the curriculum with 
English Minor be put into a separate 
department in charge of the English 
Department. The course whichthese 
students took was first called the 
Editor-Secretary Course. The inten
tion was to indicate, by the name, 
that students pursuing this special 
course would be trained to edit manu
script of any kind, including cor
respondence. The name, however, 
because of the wide-spread use of the 
word to designate those persons who 
manage periodicals, came to suggest 
some connection with journalism and 
the editing of newspapers. Since the 
course makes no pretense to being a 
course in journalism this misunder
standing was felt to be serious, and 
the name of the course was changed 
a year ago to English Minor. Ap
parently the course is fated to live 
under a misnomer. The number of 
units of work given in this course by 
the English Department is larger 
than the number of units given in 
secretarial studies; but the name, of 
course, is not after all very import
ant, so long as it is not misleading, 
and the name of this course, at least, 
suggests its prominent characteristic, 
namely, that it is made up in .good 
part of courses in English.
As described in the catalouge, the 
course is intended to fit students for 
secretaryship in which ability to 
write and to criticize and improve the
| writing of others is of more importI ance than a knowledge of business 
> methods. The course is intended to 
; appeal, and does appeal, to students 
j interested in writing, who look for
ward to occupying positions as secre
taries in which they will have a 
I chance to exercise and develop their 
i talent. For the most part graduates 
: from the course become secretaries ii*
! educational institutions, or secrej taries for individuals who have a 
good deal of writing to do, but who 
are not themselves expert writers.
I -Many of the students who take the 
course, are ambitious to become, in 
| some way,attached to newspapers or 
j magazines, and hope to use their 
secretaryships as stepping stones. 
Others, who know, or hope, that their 
j years as secretaries will be few, look 
; upon the course as giving them more 
j of the kind of thing which they will 
: find of value in their ordinary lives as 
i citizens, extensive knowledge of 
! literature and the cultivated ability 
\ to express themselves.
1 The English Minor course consists 
; of the same number of units in short! hand and typewriting as is given in 
! the regular secretarial course90 
, units; one course, at least, in writing 
j each year; one course at least in 
! English literature each year; and a 
certain number of electives, depend
ing on the students preparation in 
French i at least two years of French 
is required in the coursemore id 
advised. For admission to the course; 
candidates must do creditable work 
in Freshman English and must have 
the approval of the Head of the En
glish Department. A conspicuous 
talent in writing is not necessary; 
but a student who cannot do credit
able work in her Freshman year 13 
not likely to succeer in the course. 
French as one of the Freshman elec
tives is desirable, but not absolutely 
necessary. A student who has had 
no French, However, will have to 
make up the definciency before she 
graduates.
ciates very much this fine spirit of 
-operation on the part of the Clans
NOMINEES ELECTED
FOR COUNCIL PRES.
(Continued From Page One.) 
cedure will be followed again this
and is very grateful, for'1 the loyal sup- year, it is by no means assured. At 
port of those alumnae who will be j any rate, the person who is selected 
unable to attend the party in Pitts- will be announced as soon as he is 
burgh. selected.
Alumni Scramble Por
Tickets to Senior Ball
The orders from Alumni for Senior 
Ball tickets have been coming in fast, 
and the outlook for a largo attend
ance of Alumni is good. Grads who 
have not yet decided to come, decide 
to order tickets right away, because 
the affair will be held this coming 
Thursday night.
You will never get a better bar
gain. Dance from 0 till 1 to Col
legiate Imp music and listen to Obie 
Newman sing. Your mind will go 
back to those good old days when you 
attended the Senior Ball as an undergrad. There is a great chance to reHarnessing 
Niagara Falls 
for the 
First Time
What Engineering 
Owes to Faith
T
HE pioneer harnessing of Niagara Falls 
in 1892, like all great engineering feats, 
was the result of the co-operation of many 
able and constructive minds. There were no 
older engineers on this work, with younger 
assistants, as is now common, because there 
were 002 older engineers then. All of them were 
young men in a young business, optimistic, 
enthusiastic and willing to take long chances.
The original Niagara installation represented prog
ress based largely on faith because there were many 
features of construction proposed at that time which 
Westinghouse Engineers refused to accept, and which 
time has shown to be utterly impracticable.
Thus, in effecting a compromise, the three funda
mental features of heating, insvlation and regulation 
of the 25-cycle machines as built, were vastly different 
from the original designs. Time verified their judg
ment, the ten original generators operating success
fully for more than a quarter of a century.
Looking back, it is gratifying that those young men 
served engineering'so Courageously, because truly it 
was an undertaking that taxed their faith to the limit.
Westinghouse ( W
ACHIEVEMENT % OPPORTUNITY
HWESTINGHOUSE ' 
ELECTRIC
